ADDITIONAL NOTES ON THE DEAL METEORITE.
BY F. J. KEELEY.
In the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1830 Volume VI page 182 Mr. Robert Vaux and Dr. Thos.
M'Euen described the fall of a small stone meteorite at Deal Monmouth County New Jersey August 14 1829 11.30 P. M. a portion of which they presented to the Academy.
In 1851 Shepard who had received part of this specimen from the Curators of the Academy published some further information including a determination of its specific gravity which he reported as 3.25 to 3.30.
At the present time but thirty grams of this meteorite is known to be in existance hence sufficient material for adequate investigation is not available without too greatly impairing the specimens but it seems desirable that at least some additional description be recorded.
The Academy's specimen which weighs 20.8 grams and therefore constitutes over two thirds of the known material consists of one end of a stone that may have been originally three times as large.
Its length is about 35 mm. width 25 mm.
and thickness 15 mm.
and on more than half of it the original surface is preserved rounded and pitted by fusion and covered with a dull black crust averaging .3 mm.
in thickness.
The broken surface of about 30 mm.
by 25 mm. when examined with the microscope is extremely fine and uniformly grained and of pale pearl giay color penetrated by a few narrow black veins which are continuous with the crust and branch and anastomose.
Scattered through the mass are innumerable minute grains of metal and sulphide the largest of the former not exceeding 1 mm.
and few being over .2 mm. while the grains of sulphide average even smaller with no tendency to form larger nodules.
There are also a few small black particles and a slight rusty tint is visible over much of the surface but no exudations of molysite to indicate the presence of lawrencite.
A careful study of the entire broken surface under a binocular compound microscope with magnification of about 40 failed to reveal a single chondrule or larger crystaUine mass but near one end there is a spherical depression about 1.5 mm.
in diameter which looks as if it might have been the matrix of a chondrule.
Unless this very slight character is accepted as sufficient there is nothing visible on the specimen to justify classing it as a chondrite.
On the broken face was a partly separated spall a few millimeters in diameter which was removed and from it a rather unsatisfactory section prepared for microscopical examination.
This section which would have been entirely too small to represent the meteorite generally had not the preliminary examination demonstrated a remarkable degree of uniformity throughout the stone shows a fine granular texture made up of minute angular fragments of enstatite and olivine mostly too small for satisfactory determination.
There are two or three individuals inthesection which exceed .5mm in length but many less than .1 mm.
A portion of one of the veins passes through the section.
It is black and opaque and about .02 mm.
thick throughout most of its length with several lenticular thickenings which generally include grains of metal and sulphides.
Numerous small grains of metal are likewise scattered among the silicates together with even more plentiful but smaller grains of troilite or pyrrhotite.
A few opaque black grains with some' indications of crystal faces are probably chromite.
The most interesting feature exhibited by the section is the presence of not inconsiderable quantities of a glassy transparent substance that may be identified as maskelynite resembling in all respects that of Alfianello.
This mineral which has a refractive index so close to that of balsam that the ground surfaces appear as if perfectly polished generally occupies irregular spaces between the magnesian silicates and sometimes holds small grains of the latter as inclusions but in one case takes the form of a nearly circular grain suggesting a rounded crystal with its interior clouded with numerous small inclusions.
When examined in ordinary light under high powers using good objectives and carefully adjusted illumination there occasionally appear in it systems of fine parallel lamina sometimes intersecting.
On applying polarized light such spaces generally show faint double refraction somewhat similar to that of leucite.
Not the comparatively strong double refraction of large leucite crystals but more closely resembling that of the small crystals in fine grained Vesuvian lavas which likewise sometimes show similar parallel laminations with ordinary light.
These laminations might be interpreted as indicating incipient polysynthetic twinning in a feldspathic material but the resemblance shown by all the characters of maskelynite to those of leucite seems to furnish some justification for Groth's opinion that the two minerals are closely related.
MARINE MOLLUSKS OF HAW AH XIV XV.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Part of the Hawaiian tectibranch mollusks were considered in part II of this series.
 Others were found in the Bryan and Thaanum collections and in material taken in 1913.
Probably further additions can be made when material collected this year is assorted but as the following revision has already been held some time awaiting the preparation of illustrations it is thought best to publish at this time.
Very little is known of the ecology of Hawaiian Tectibranchs.
Collectors of living specimens should note their stations and such conditions as can be observed.
Little additional information has come to hand on the Aplysioid and Notaspidian Tectibranchs since the publication of Manual of Conchology Vol.
XVI in which the known species are described.
Key to Hawaiian genera of cephalaspidian Tectibranchs.
1.
Shell an open flat spiral wholly concealed the mantle concrescent over it Aglaja Ren.
Shell not covered by the mantle 2 2.
Spire exposed 3 Spire deeply sunken or concealed 6 3.
Spire more or less conic the apex not depressed 4 Spire convex or level apex not projecting above the following whorl Hydatinidoe.
4.
Larger shells with a strong columellar fold or a basal truncation  spiral grooves punctured when present 5 Smaller white shells with a weak columellar fold and without punctured spiral grooves apical whorl tilted on edge.
Acteodna Gray.
5.
Columella having a strong bilobed fold above concave below imperforate Pupa Bolt.
Columella straight with a small fold above and obliquely truncate at base shell oval with close spiral sculpture perforate.
BuUina Fer.
1 Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1917 p. 214.
6.
Summit narrowly deeply umbilicate 7 Summit imperforate or barely perforate 8 7.
Shell larger in large part smooth marbled with brown.
Bulla7ia Raf.
Shell small spirally sculptured throughout often banded.
Mnestia Ads.
8.
Axial margin above the summit folded Atys Helbl.
Axial margin not folded above 9 9.
Columella abruptly truncate anteriorly Dinia Ads.
Columella slightly concave indistinctly truncate anteriorly shell having incised spiral lines throughout.
Haminoea subg.
Liloa.
Columella broadly strongly concave not truncate 10 10.
A thm broad spiral plate posteriorly on columella shell green shaped like a split bean Smaragdinella Ad.
No such columellar plate light colored 11 11.
Summit produced in a narrow spout shell very fragile showing the interior in a basal view Volvatella Pse.
Summit not produced 12 12.
 Summit rather narrow not impressed over the axis  aperture very ample below Scaphander Montf.
Summit rounded impressed in the center .
.
Haminoea T.  K. ACTEONIDiE.
Three species of the genus Pupa Bolt.
SoUdula F.
deW.
have been found.
P. nitidula Lam.
 a widely dispersed species is known from the Islands by specimens in the collection of the Academy from Dr. Newcomb.
It has not been found by any recent collector so far as I know.
It seems possible that Newcomb's shells were from Polynesia.
In his time many shells from the southern islands were coming into Honolulu in the missionary schooner Morning Star and sold there for the benefit of missions.
1.
Nearly white smooth save for a group of spiral grooves at the base spire very short apex mamillar columellar fold very heavy and prominent.
Length 17 diameter 9 to 10 mm.
P. nitidula Lam.
Spirally grooved at summit and below middle of last whorl or throughout spire conic 2 2.
Deeply grooved spirally throughout 9 x 4 to 11.5 x 5.1 mm.
P. thaanumi Pils.
362 Nov. Grooves narrower less deep obsolete or weaker and more widely spaced above the middle of last whorl 13 to 14 mm.
long.
Fossil aromid Pearl Harbor P. pearlensis n. sp.
Pupa thaanumi Pils.
Further specimens of this species confirm the characters of color and sculpture but show that it sometimes reaches a larger size and some specimens are broader with relatively shorter spire.
Two from Haena Kanai measure Length 11.5 diameter 5.1 mm.
Length 10 diameter 4.7 mm.
Kauai Haena.
Oahu Honolulu Mokapu Point.
Pupa pearlensis n. sp.
Figure 1.
The shell is similar in shape to P. thaanumi.
It differs by the larger size the narrower less deeply cut spiral grooves above the middle of the last whorl several grooves are lacking in typical specimens when present they are weaker and more widely spaced than in thaanumi.
No color is visible in the fossil specimens.
Length 13.7 diameter 7.2 mm.
Type.
Near Waipahu.
Length 14 diameter 6.8 mm.
Near Aiea Station.
Length 11.5 diameter 6 mm.
Near Aiea Station.
Young.
Oahu fossil in superficial deposits along the Oahu Railway in the neighborhood of Pearl Harbor.
The type lot is from the bank of a taro patch on the west side of the railroad about half a mile west of Waipahu Station.
Also found east of Aeia Station 610 feet above level of the Eastern Loch Pilsbry and at Hoaeae W. A. Bryan.
Fig.
1.
 Pupa pearlensis n. sp.
Fig.
2.
 Bullina scabra solida n. subsp Bullina scabra solida n. subsp.
Figure 2.
Differing from B. scabra by its solidity the lip being far thicker.
The fold near the upper end of the straight columella is much stronger.
It agrees with B. scabra in the sculpture of close punctate spiral furrows and in the color two red lines dividing three zones which have thin waved axial red lines.
Length 12.3 diameter 7.7 mm.
Oahu Honolulu type locality Kauai Haena Wm.
A. Bryan.
The ordinary thin form of B. scabra I have not seen from the Islands.
Even the young shells of the Hawaiian race are thick.
Bullina vitrea Pease.
Bullina vitrea Pse. P. Z. J.
1860 p. 19 repeated in Man.
Conch.
XV p. 177.
Sowerby Conch.
Icon.
XVIII pi.
1 fig.
4.
Described as thin fragile with or without one or two gray bands composed of two or three black lines and with no axial lines.
Otherwise appears rather similar to B. scabra.
Not yet found by modern collectors.
ACTEOCINIDAE Tornatinidae.Acteocina sandwicensis Pse.
Honolulu Oahu Haena Kauai.
Actepcina honoluluensis Pils.
Honolulu and Haleiwa Oahu Lisiansky I. Acteocina hawaiensis Pils.
Off Maui near Lahaina.
BULLARIIDAE.
BuUaria peaseana Pils.
Bulla peaseana Pils. Man.
Conch.
XV p. 348.
This mottled species very similar to the West Indian B. occidentalis is generally spread in the islands.
Specimens are before me from Oahu Haleiwa Kaneohe Bay Kailua.
Maui Lighthouse Point Lahaina.
Hawaii Hilo.
SC APHANDRID .
Scaphander Bucconia alatus Dall and Scaphander Sab'atia pustulosus Dall are from deep water 234 to 298 fathoms near the Hawaiian Islands.
Smaragdinella viridis Q.
 G. Oval thin green with a thin broad plate on the columella.
Koko Head Oahu collected by Wm.
A. Bryan taken also by earlier collectors in the Islands but not definitely localized.
'For descriptions and figures of the three species enumerated see Proc A. N. S.
Phila. 1917 pp.
215 216 1920 p 300.
Dinia compitorum n. sp.
Figire 3.
The shell is white oblong perforate rounded below truncate and imperforate at the summit.
The surface has faint traces of spiral striae and at the base there are several distinct spirals.
The Up is inserted in the center above rising but little outer lip is quite Fig.
3.
 Dinia compitorum n. sp.
slightly curved and in adults is rather strongly thickened within.
In profile view it recedes decidedly above very little at the base and curves forward very slightly elsewhere.
The columella projects obliquely towards the right and is abruptly truncate at base.
Length 7.1 diameter 4 mm.
Oahu Honolulu type locality and Haleiwa Pilsbry 1913 Paumalu and Mokapu Point Bryan.
Maui off Mala Bay near Lahaina in 25 to 75 feet.
Thaanum and Langford.
Dinia has been considered a subgenus of Atys but it differs by lacking a spiral fold in the lip ascending from the summit and by the very strong truncation of the columella characters sufficient for generic separation.
There are now four IndoPacific species.
ATYS.
Five of the six species of Atys now known from the Islands were figured in the first paper of this series 1917 pp.
216218.
A fossil Pleistocene
species probably extinct is now added.
Key to the Hawaiian species of Atys.
1.
Columella rather thin mainly vertical or weakly sigmoid the edge but narrowly reflected Atys proper 2 Columella thicker its edge reflected bounded by an arcuate groove Subgenus AUculastrum Pils.
3 2.
Diameter about twothirds of the length rather inflated often striped 15.5 x 10 mm A. kuhnsi Pils.
Smaller less inflated white A. semistriata Pse.
3.
Apical part of the lip biangulate at summit diameter slightly less than half the length 4 Lip not biangulate at summit diameter about half the length 19 X 9.5 mm A. kekele n. sp.
4.
Shell conspicuously widest below the middle... A. dehilis Pse.
Shell widest about the middle 5 5.
Surface axially weakly plicate 5 x 2.3 mm A. costulosa Pse.
Without noticeable axial sculpture 10.6 x 4.8 mm.
A. cornuta Pils.
Atys semistriata Pease.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1917 p. 217 fig.
5.
The specimen in the Pease collection which I figured is larger than any others seen few of which exceed 10 mm.
in length.
Typically it is distinctly wider below the middle but sometimes the greatest diameter is nearly median.
There is also variation in the number of engraved lines on the lower third which are often less numerous perhaps always so in the immature shells.
Specimens seen are from Kauai Hanalei River and Haena.
Oahu Waikiki beach Kahala and Waimanalu.
Maui Kahului dunes Bryan.
Kahoolawe Pilsbry.
Atys semistriata mua n. siibsp.
The shell is decidedly compressed near the summit which is narrower than in the typical form.
Honolulu Pilsbry 1913.
116611 A. N. S. P. Atys semistriata fordinsulae n. subsp.
Greatest diameter about median about 10 spiral grooves above and below.
Length 10.5 diameter 6.3 mm.
Ford's Island in Pearl Harbor W. A. Bryan.
Atys kekele n. sp.
Figiire 4.
The shell is oblong widest below the middle tapering slowly posteriorly to the rather narrow angular vertex outline towards the base rather strongly convex.
Near the summit there are 8 or 9 spiral grooves the lower ones widely spaced.
The convex base has numerous finer and closer linear grooves.
Vertex rather deeply excavated.
The aperture is very narrow in the upper half moderately dilated below.
There is a strongly salient compressed fold in the sloping upper margin of the Up.
Columella rather thick nearly straight joining the basal margin in a short curve.
Basal margin retreating.
366 Nov. Length 19 diameter 9.5 mm.
Length 17 diameter 8.5 mm.
Oahu on a taro patch embankment west of the Oahu raih'oad about a half mile west of Waipahu station Pilsbry 1913 Type 116610 A. N. S. P. Only found fossil in earth dug out of the taro field probably Pleistocene.
It is related to A. cylindrica Helbl.
 but in the present species the upper part of the aperture is narrower the excavation of the summit deeper with angular margin the base is more effuse and the columellar callus is more raised the groove bounding it being wider.
Fig.
4.
 Atys kekele n. sp.
rig.
5.
 Mnestia pusilla Pse.
Mnestia pusilla Pease.
Figure 5.
Haminea pusilla Pse. P. Z. S. 1860 p. 20 description repeated in Man.
Conch.
XV p. 364.
This species was described by Pease in his earlier manner Linnean in brevity.
It is not present in his collection in the M. C. Z. but his allusions to its small size solidity cancellated surface and umbilicate apex apply well to a small shell which has been taken in several localities.
The shell is solid nearly cylindric in the middle contracting rather abruptly towards the ends.
It is whitish with an illdefined white band near the base some indistinct brownish markings above it.
The surface has strongly impressed spiral lines throughout the intervals cut by much finer shallower close axial impressed lines hardly visible except imder the microscope.
The aperture is very narrow in the upper twothirds but dilated somewhat below.
The outer lip rises well above the vertex which is narrowly deeply umbilicate outer margin rather straightened.
Columella nearly straight and having a very slight fold.
Length 5 diameter 2.4 mm. largest specimen.
Oahu Honolulu Mokapu Point and Paumalu W. A. Bryan Haleiwa Pilsbry.
Maui off Kaanapali in 60 feet.
Thaanum and Langford.
This species is smaller than Mnestia hizona A. Adams and does not have the distinct bands of the typical form of that species but the relationship appears to be very intimate.
The shore specimens are bleached quite white.
Mnestia has been generally considered a subgenus of Cylichna.
Many authors consider the latter name to be a homonym of Cylichnus Insecta and moreover Mnestia differs from Cylichna by its well developed spiral sculptm'e its soft parts are unknown.
For the present it appears best to treat the two groups as generically distinct.
AKERID.E.
HAMINCEA.
Hamincea appears divisible into three sections by the structure of the columella.
These are defined in the following.
Key to Hawaiian species of Hamincea.
1.
Columella deeply concave the reflected columellar margin crescentic rather thick its edge separated from the whorl by a furrow.
Section Haloa new section type H. crocata Pse 2 Columella but slightly concave the columellar edge free narrow and but httle reflected an umbilical crevice behind it.
Shell narrow diameter less than half the length in our species sculptured with engraved spiral lines throughout.
Subgenus Liloa new subg. type H. tomaculum Pils 4 Columella concave its reflected margin rather broad thin at the edge closely appressed to the whorl.
Section Hamincea proper type Bulla hydatis not known to be represented in the Hawaiian fauna.
2.
Apex perforate H. sandwichensis Sowb.
Apex imperforate 3 3.
Oval diameter twothirds the length or less yellowish when fresh less than 14 mm.
long H. crocata Pse.
H. galha Pse. '
Iredale has shown that the earliest speUing of Haminea was Haminaa.
Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
Lond.
XI p. 172.
More globose white 14 to 17 mm.
long.
H. aperta oahuensis Pils.
4.
Diameter equalling or close to half the length .
.
H. curta A.
Ad.
Diameter less than half the length 5 5.
Nearly cyhndric elongate H. tomaculum Pils.
Shorter sides distinctly convex H. olopana n. sp.
Haminoea crocata Pease.
Figure 6.
Oval light ochraceous buff.
The specimen figured received from Pease measures length 13.2 diameter 8.3 mm. but most of those seen are smaller.
H. crocata is scarcely to be distinguished from H. galba Pse.
 the latter fig.
7 length 11 diameter 6.8 mm.
is perceptibly less swollen with the lip rising less at the summit according to Pease there are differences in the shape and color of Fig.
6.
 H. crocata Pse.
Fig.
7.
 H. galba Pse.
the living animals.
In actual practice I find the assorting of specimens far from easy.
The historic examples figured are extremes and recently collected shells often fall short of the ideal form.
Both forms have a close fine shallow and wavy spiral striation scarcely visible except under the microscope.
Probably when the living animals are observed the conclusions of Pease can be tested and the matter put on a sounder basis.
H. crocata is before me from Paumalu Kailua Koko Head and Kaneohe Bay Oahu and Haena Kauai.
Specimens referable to H. galba from Paumalu Honolulu Kaneohe Bay Oahu and Haena Kauai.
Haminoea sandwichensis Sowerby.
This shell is said to have an umbihcated summit and more pointed ends.
It is white and rather similar to the preceding in shape.
I have not seen it in some hundreds of Hawaiian Hamineas examined.
1920.
369 Haminoea aperta oahuensis Pils.
Oahu IJ miles east of Kahuku Pilsbry.
Additional specimens from Oahu are somewhat larger up to 17 mm.
long.
They are strongly malleate or faceted around the middle.
In the section Haloa containing the foregoing species the columella resembles that of Bullaria or Aliculastrum.
Haminoea curta A.
Ad.
Figixre 8a.
Bulla curta A. Adams Thesaurus Conchyliorum II p. 582 pi.
124 fig.
100.
Pilsbry Man.
Conch.
XV p. 368.
This species was described without locality.
Specimens from Fiji collected by Andrew Garrett agree with the original figure.
I refer to this species provisionally two smaller perhaps immature examples from Kaneohe Bay Oahu one of them figured.
It measures length 7 diameter 3.5 mm.
The straighter lateral outlines separate this from H. olopana.
It has the same sculpture as H. olopana fine clearly engraved spiral lines of which I count about 36.
H. curta was first reported from the Sandwich Islands by von Martens.
 Cooke united as synonyms certain Red Sea forms whether correctly or not remains to be seen.
The original figure of H. curta measures length 14.3 diameter 7.5 mm.
One from Fiji measures 12.3 diameter 6.3 mm.
The summit is very minutely perforate and the lateral outlines are a trifle straighter than in the Kaneohe Bay form figured.
Fig.
8.
 a Haminwa curia A.
Ad.
h H. olopana n. sp.
Haminoea olopana n. sp.
Figure 8b.
The shell approaches a cylindric form but the outlines are noticeably convex.
It is thin translucent whitish with opaque white terminations.
Surface scored by fine spiral lines of which I count 26 just behind the outer lip.
There are additional closer ones in  Donum Bismarckianum p. 53. the columellarbasal region.
These impressed Rnes are very smoothly evenly engraved widely spaced and appear white on the translucent ground.
The rounded vertex is minutely perforate.
There is a fine slit behind the columellar callus.
The aperture dilates below.
Outer lip arches forward basal lip receding.
The columella is only weakly concave with a narrow expanded edge forming a long mnbihcal crevice below it is slightly truncate.
Length 7.8 diameter 3.3 mm.
Kauai Haena W. A. Bryan.
A less cylindric species than H. curta.
HamincBa tomaculiun Pils.
Haminea curta tomaculum Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1917 p. 219 fig.
10.
Further study of the Hawaiian Hamineas convinces me that this form differs specifically from H. curta A.
Ad.
The three species preceding as well as H. papyrus A.
Ad.
 H. hrevis Q.
 G. H. cairnsiana Melv.
and H. cuticulifera Smith belong to the group which I have called Liloa.
It is quite possible that when the animal can be examined this group will be transferred to the vicinity of Ahjs.
The sculpture and the form of the columella are much like Atys and unhke other groups of HammcBa.
Atys however has a fold in the axis posteriorly.
Roxaniella Monts and Damoniella Iredale differ by having the summit umbilicate.
It is barely perforate or sometimes imperforate in Liloa.
Volvatella fragilis Pease.
Volvatella fragilis Pse. P. Z. S. 1860 p. 20 Amer.
Journ.
Conch.
IV p. 73 pi.
7 fig.
4.
Description and figures repeated in Man.
Conch.
XV p. 384.
Sandwich Islands.
Not found since the time of Pease.
HYDATINID.
Thin oval capacious shells banded with the spire flattened or convex.
The Hawaiian species are widely ranging forms.
1.
Base contracted by a furrow running spirally from the insertion of the columella aperture shorter than the shell two pink and three white zones separated by narrow blackish bands.
Hydatina Aplustruin amplustre L..
Base not so contracted aperture nearly as long as the shell columella broadly concave 2  Damoniella Iredale Proc.
Malac.
See.
Lond.
XIII p. 37 new name for Roxania Leach not Roxana Stephens.
Type Bulla cranchii.
1920.
371 2.
Large with manj'' brown spiral lines  coluinellar reflection lunate not appressed spire level of 3 whorls parted by a deep suture length 26 diameter 18 mm.
Hydatina physis staminea Mke.
Small with two or three remote spiral lines and spaced festooned axial lines of brown spire minute of 2J whorls columellar reflection closely appressed length 9 diameter 6 mm. often smaller Micromelo guamensis Q.
 G. Hydatina physis staminea Mke.
Honolulu Harbor Oahu Kainalu Molokai Wm A Bryan.
All of the Hawaiian specimens seen belong to this subspecies.
The typical H. physis is larger and more globose.
Hydatina Aplustrum amplustre L. Honolulu Harbor and Kahana Oahu Kailua Hawaii W. A. Bryan.
Kahoolawe Pilsbry.
Easily recognized by the pink and white zones bordered with wide blackish lines.
One from Kahoolawe measures length 21 diameter 15 mm.
Micromelo guamensis Quoy  Gaimard.
Figiire 9.
Hawaii Kailua Wm.
A. Bryan.
Hilo Garrett for Bulla scripta .
This snail appears to have been collected rarely though described long ago.
Besides the peculiarities of shape and colorpattern shown in the figure it has spaced spiral series of oblong punctures Adeon like not easily seen without a lens.
The narrow spire is level.
The specimen figured measures  length 9 diameter 6 mm.
Others are smaller.
AGLAJID.E.
Aglaja better known as Doridium appears to be well represented in the islands though so far as I know each species has been taken but once.
Two were described by Pease under the genus Philinopsis which appears to be the same as Aglaja.
The small shell is entirely concealed in the mantle.
Aglaja speciosa Pease  Above fawn spotted and speckled with white margins varied with blackish and yellow sides paler foot purplish fawn closely freckled with whitish.
3 inches long.
Fig.
9.
 Micromelo guamensis.
Seen only by Pease whose full description of this species and A. nigra may be found in Manual of Concho logy vol.
XVI.
He gave only ''Sandwich Islands as locality.
Aglaja nuttalli Pils.
Uniform blackbrown above pale with faint hghter maculation below.
A caudal filament.
Length 40 mm.
Sandwich Islands Nuttall.
Based on an old alcohoHc specimen.
Man.
Conch.
XVI p. 50.
Aglaja nigra Pease Black two large white spots on anterior end two on head disc and two on mantle lobes sides white.
Foot white with throe large black spots on each revolute side.
Unknown to recent collectors.
Aglaja pilsbryl hawaiensis n. subsp.
Figure 10.
Similar to A. pilshryi Eliot  of the Samoan Islands in having figure 8 shaped black marks on both cephalic shield and mantle but the figures are heavier than in that species.
The markings on the parapodia are reduced to a few black spots along the lateral borders four on each side one being beneath and there is an imperfect black rim on the front edge of foot.
The ground color is brownish perhaps stained by the alcohol which has a yellowish tint.
No posterior filament.
Fig.
10. Aglaja Length about 24 mm.
pilshryi hawaiensis.
jjilo Hawaii D. Thaanum.
Type 47421 A. N. S. P. This is probably related to A. nigra Pse.
 and may possibly be a less pigmented form or race of that though I do not think so.
As Pease's species has not been figured no close comparison can be made.
XV.
Various Gastropods and Pelecypods.
MURICID.E.
Vexilla thaanumi n. sp.
Hilo Hawaii.
Types no.
127747 A. N. S. P. collected by D. Thaanum.
The shell is obovate widest at the upper third very solid.
Surface dull regularly sculptured with very low rounded cantiguous Doridium Aglaia pilsbryi Eliot.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1899 p. 512 pi.
19 figs la 16.
Reef at Apia Samoan Is.
The type specimen is No.
47422 A. N. S. P. spiral girdles parted by impressed lines and themselves weakly striate spirally deep brownish drab every third or fourth girdle yellowish or in worn shells whitish there being 8 or 10 of these pale narrow bands.
The spire is extremely short and obtuse.
The aperture is obhque of about equal width almost throughout blackish brown deep in the throat becoming pale or white within the lip.
The outer lip is very thick bevelled liverbrown its outer edge minutely scalloped the inner edge set with 10 or 12 small teeth.
The columellar border is broadly flattened vinaceousbrown with pale inner edge.
Length 14 diameter 9.5 mm.
 length of apertm'e 12.3 mm.
Length 13.6 diameter 9.6 mm.
The operculum is liverbrown long and narrow widest above the nucleus which is worn away at the upper outer extremity the outer margin arcuate inner margin straight.
It is near V. taeniata Powys but smaller and wider in the upper part.
Murex cyclostoma baldwiniana n. subsp.
The shell is similar to M. cyclostoma Sowb.
in having the faces of the varices cellular in the shortly oval aperture and sculpture of strong encircling cords but the specimens from two sources are very much smaller.
There are 5 cords on the last 2 on the penult whorl The nearly closed anterior canal is a little shorter than the aperture.
Length 8.2 diameter 5.2 mm.
Kailua Kona coast of Hawaii Bryan Maui D. D. Baldwin.
Possibly distinct from M. cyclostoma which is a much larger shell a longer series is needed to show whether the small size is constant.
VANIKORO.
The following species of Vanikoro are now known from the Islands.
For references see Smith Proc.
Malac.
Soc.
London VIII 104117.
Vanikoro semiplicata Pease.
Hilo Hawaii Paumalu Oahu Haena Kauai.
Vanikoro imhricata Pease.
Hilo Hawaii Kaneohe Bay Oahu.
Vanikoro acuta Reel..
Kaneohe Bay Oahu Haena Kauai.
Originally described from Lord Hood's Island on coral reefs.
The Hawaiian specimens appear to be quite typical.
Vanikoro hawaiensis n. sp.
The shell is openly umbilicate subglobose with small conic acute spire white with the apex brown.
Embryonic and nepionic 3 whorls brown high conic the first smooth the others having 3 spiral cords.
The next two whorls have very strong retractive ribs nearly as wide as their intervals crossed by spiral cords which bead the ribs.
On the first postnepionic whorl I count 13 ribs on the second there are about 9 cords and the ribs become very low fading out on its last third.
The last 13 whorls have a close sculpture of slightly unequal spiral threads lines of growth are scarcely visible.
The umbilicus is funnelshaped rather weakly axially plicate within its margin smooth and rounded.
The apertuie is oblique semicircular the inner border slightly concave.
Length 5.5 diameter 5.4 mm. 3J postnepionic whorls.
Hilo Hawaii Kaneohe Bay Oahu Haena Kauai.
Type 116963 A. N. S. P. Fig.
10  Vanikoro hawaiensis.
Vanikoro kanakarum n. sp.
Shell openly umbiHcate subglobose with a short conic spire and slightly obtuse apex white the apex brown.
The embryonic and nepionic shell is semiglobose of little more than one whorl and smooth.
Retractive ribs then set in continuing for two whorls their intervals are a little wider than the ribs and crossed by about 10 spiral cords.
The adult sculpture abruptly replaces this ribbed neanic stage.
It consists of spiral threads between which there are one to three finer threads.
Lines of growth are scarcely noticeable.
The umbilicus is funnelshaped slightly plicate inside bounded by a nearly smooth rib but slightly prominent.
The aperture is semicircular.
Length 3.7 diameter 4 mm.
 34 postnepionic whorls.
Haena Kauai.
The shape of the shell in the floating stage differs entirely from that of V. hawaiensis.
The ribbed neanic stage is longer.
The type would probably add another whorl I think it is possibly not fullgrown but I cannot identify it with any of the species hitherto described.
CJECIDM.
In the Challenger Report de Folin records C. sepimentum de Fol. C. crystallinum de Fol. and Strehloceras suhannulatum de Fol.
from Honolulu.
Subsequently he added Meioceras sandwichensis de Fol.
C. sepimentum has been taken at Hilo Hawaii by Thaanum abundantly at Mokapu Point Oahu by Bryan and at Moomomi Molokai by myself.
S. suban7iulatu'm also occurs at Mokapu Point.
Csecum oahuense n. sp.
The shell is similar to C sepimentum in form.
It has an evenly convex septum.
The aperture is moderately contracted.
Sculpture of 40 rounded rings hardly as wide as their intervals and much smaller than those of C. sepimentum.
Length 2.2 diameter at septum 0.38 at aperture 0.5 mm.
Mokapu Point Oahu.
Fossarus ecphora n. sp.
The shell is umbilicate white with a dark brown embryonic whorl.
Sculptme of three very prominent spiral ridges and one or two minor ones on the last whorl the upper one appearing on earlier whorls the rest of the smface having fine spiral threads and axial striae.
Spire shorter and ridges stronger than in F. lamellosus Montr.
Altitude 2.3 diameter 2.5 mm.
Haleiwa Oahu Pilsbry 1913.
This is evidently not the young of F. garrettii Pse. which has been taken at Hilo Hawaii and Koko Head Oahu.
F. multicostata Pse. has been found at Waikiki and Kaneohe Bay Oahu.
Epitonimndecussatum Pease.
Not an uncommon species.
Dr. Dall informs me that the name is preoccupied.
Epitonium kanemoe n. sp.
Fig.
11 b.
It is very slender imperforate white with sculpture of slender recurved ribs 8 on the last whorl the intervals having minute axial striae and coarser more spaced spiral threads.
Whorls not quite in contact except at the ribs.
376 Nov. Length 10.4 diameter 3.3 mm.
 10 whorls the tip lost.
Haena Kauai.
It is as narrow as E. unibilicatum Pse.
 but has fewer ribs and the spirals would not be called remote.
It is more slender than E. decussatum with more delicate ribs.
Epitonium fucatum Pse.
Fig.
11 a.
It is broader than Epitonium decussatum clouded with brown in the peripheral region with rather strong ribs 10 on the last whorl.
Interstitial sculpture and form of the whorls about as in decussatum.
Honolulu Harbor.
Length 14.5 diameter 5.8 mm.
 7 whorls remaining the apex lost.
n  R H9 Hil BfiH Pll KiiiMB IKaiI K ll PiMH m.
IQH Hr bVH HV .. 't'H B.''iH  ''HH pMM  '' V P'H HI m i  iH 1 a b c d Fig.
11.
 a Epitonium fucatum b E. kanemoe.
c E. ulu.
f E. oahuense.
Dr. Dall suggests that this may be the unfigured Scalaria fucata Pse.
Epitonium ulu n. sp.
Fig.
lie.
Related to S. crispata Pse. of the Paumotu group but having the delicate rib lets much more widely spaced.
There are about 21 of these threadlike riblets on the last whorl.
The base is perforate columellar lip reflected below.
Aperture rather trapezoidal the parietal callus thin outer lip narrowly reflected.
White.
Length 14 diameter 5.8 mm.
 10 whorls the tip lost.
Hilo Hawaii.
D. Thaanum.
Epitonium oahuense n. sp.
Fig.
lid.
Resembhng E. turricula Sowb..
The shell is mnbilicate rather thin suffused and clouded with brown.
Glossy having thin riblets with a few wider ones 14 on the last whorl in the intervals minute unequal engraved spiral hues may be seen.
The whorls are in contact well rounded.
The aperture is shortly ovate peristome adnate for a short distance above.
Length 14 diameter 5.3 mm.
 aperture 3.5 mm.
long 9 whorls the tip lost.
Oahu Honolulu Harbor and Kahana.
Epitonium perplexum Pse.
is the largest Hawaiian species known to me also the most generally distributed.
E. alatum Sowb.
 E. millecostatum Pse.
and E. decussatum Pse.
have been taken by Prof. Bryan and Mr. Thaanmii.
E. attenuatum and umhilicatum of Pease I have not seen.
I have provisionally identified a small specimen from Waimanalo Oahu as E. paumotense Pse..
The curious solute E. hyalinum Sowb.
is represented in Kaneohe Bay by specimens agreeing well with those from Luzon in shape but of smaller size the largest 8 mm.
long 4 wide of five whorls after the slender nepionic tip 8 ribs on the last whorl 7 points on each rib.
This small race may be called E. hyalinum mokuoloense.
Haplocochlias Lophocochlias minutissimus n. sp.
The very small shell is umbilicate turbinate not nacreous white with a conic brownish spire.
The first whorl appears to be smooth on the second fine radial folds or puckering appears below the suture becoming coarser on the following whorl.
The last whorl has six strong smooth spiral keels narrower than the intervals which are .flat and crossed by numerous retractively axial threads which are much narrower than their intervals.
Within the umbilicus two rather small spiral cords are se6n.
The aperture is quite oblique subcircular.
The outer lip is strengthened by a rounded external rib or varix a short distance behind the edge.
Length 1 diameter 0.9 mm.
 43 whorls.
Mokapu Point Oahu 4 specimens.
By the welldeveloped varix this shell resembles Haplocochlias or Liotia.
I have placed it in the former genus with doubt.
It differs by the very strong sculptme and the open though not wide umbilicus which may characterize a separate section Lophocochlias.
This is the smallest Hawaiian sea shell I have seen.
LEPTOTHYRA.7 The following species have been reported from the Hawaiian Islands.
L. verruca Gld.
'Perhaps this name should yield place to Anadema A.
Ad. but the type of that group is imperfectly known.
It is larger than the known Leptothyras.
See Man.
of Conch.
X p. 255.
378 Nov. L. ruhricinda Migh.
L. Candida Pse.
L.

marmorea 'Pse' Sowb.
L. costata Pse.
Only the first two can be considered well known.
Leptothyra verruca manti n.
subsp. differs from the typical form by the black on the beach fading to brown or olivebrown color of the tesselation or it may be black with whitish spots and the smaller size altitude 4 diameter 3.8 mm.
It is from Diamond Head Oahu Haena Kauai and other places often abundant.
'TIs X Fig.
12.
 Leptothyra Candida percostata.
Fig.
13.
 L. viaria.
Fig.
14.
 L halnearii.
Leptothyra Candida percostata fig.
12 is a small thick white narrowly mnbilicate shell with sculpture of 7 spiral ribs the first radially plicate the rest smooth below them a broad radially plicate border about the mnbilicus.
The aperture is rounded oblique.
Columella arcuate narrow next to the umbilicus very broad and fiat at the base.
Length 2.3 diameter 2.5 mm.
It differs from L. Candida as defined by Pease by the solidity and coarse ribs.
Has been taken at Haleiwa and Honolulu Pilsbry and Hilo Thaanum.
There are sometimes interstitial threads between the ribs.
Leptothyra balnearii n. sp.
Fig.
14 The shell is perforate solid and thick red tessellated with white or entirely red the first whorl white.
Sculpture of smooth spiral cords of which four in the flattened peripheral region are large  above them there is a small cord and a flattened radially plicate subsutural band below there are four small cords and a strongly plicate band around the umbilicus.
Aperture oblique.
Columella straightened outwardly concave within dilated and very broad towards the base.
Outer hp thinedged.
Altitude 2.6 diameter 2.6 mm.
Off Waikiki 2550 fms.
D. B. Langford.
This species agrees partly with Pease's L. costata Maui but that is said to be mottled and spotted with white black and brown.
It is also larger.
Leptothyra viaria n. sp.
Fig.
13.
The shell is solid narrowly umbilicate buffwhite with small scattered olivaceous dots.
Sculpture of about 5 smooth larger cords in the peripheral region about 4 smaller ones on the base the intervals of all finely striate spirally above the peripheral cords there are subequal spiral threads 7 in the type specimen the penult whorl is angulated in the middle.
UmbiHcus is surrounded by a rounded radially phcate ridge.
The columella is narrow above very much produced basally with a broad excavated face.
Outer lip thin.
Altitude 3.7 diameter 3.5 mm.
.'.
Honolulu type locality and Haleiwa Pilsbry.
Apparently related to L. costata Pse. but differing in proportions and various other details from that still unfigured species.
Siphonaria normalis Gld.
Specimens from numerous places on all of the islands except Lanai and Niihau examined often in large series.
There are many local forms but so far as I can see but one species S. normalis Gld. which varies extraordinarily in size color and sculpture.
The following names are on the Hawaiian list.
S. normalis Gld.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
N. H. ii 1846 p. 178 Otia Conch pp.
12 242 U. S. Expl.
Exped. MoUusca p. 359 pi.
30 fig.
468.
The type was a small dark subregular form 10 mm.
long.
S. amara Nuttall Reeve Conch Icon. IX 1856 pi.
7 fig.
33 California.
Said by Keeve to be from California but this was a mistake.
A set given by Nuttall is labelled Atooi  Kauai.
Carpenter has noted this in his MoUusca of Western North America.
S. funiculata Reeve Conch.
Icon.
IX pi.
7 fig.
35 Hab.
unknown.
Name changed to S. lirata on index page a.s funiculata had been used for another species.
This is the very black form.
S. nutlalli Hanley Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1858 p. 152 Ins.
Sandwich.
S. crehricostata Nuttall Ms. was placed by Reeve in the synonymy of S.
sipho Sowb. but it was really a Hawaiian shell. a rather large form of S. normalis.
The specimens of a colony are usually rather uniform.
The finest seen are from Lahaina length 21 height 9 mm.
In Honaunau Bay Hawaii all seen are small about length 10 altitude 4.5 mm. and they are very black var.
lirata Rve..
Further up the coast the shells are larger often with some ribs emphasized.
At Moomomi Molokai the cavity is some shade of chestnut border wide whitish with many brown rays.
Similar shells occur at Honokowai Maui Diamond Head etc.
These shells agree best with var.
amara.
On the north shore of Kahoolawe I found some very flat shells with 4 or 5 posterior ribs very emphatic fig.
15.
This may be called S. normalis form chirura.
Length 10.5 alt.
2.5 mm.
All of these forms have the same dark oblong Nacellalike embryonic shell with posterior apex and all seem to fade into one another in color and sculpture in the series of some hundreds examined.
Fig.
15.
 Siphonaria normalis form chirura.
Stomatella concinna inconcinna n. subsp.
Similar to S. concinna in shape but dull greenish white with some opaque white flames and sometimes a few small brownish dots on the base these markings confined to the spiral cords.
Spiral cords more or less distinctly alternating in size.
Greatest dimension 3.5 mm.
Honolulu on the reef Pilsbry 1913.
3 specimens.
Heteroglypta kanaka n. sp.
Fig.
16.
The shell is oblong compressed white faintly freckled with tawny.
The small beaks are central.
Anterior part tapering rounded at the end.
Posterior part wider obliquely truncate.
Sculpture of rounded ribs posteriorly divaricating from a line from the beaks to the lower posterior angle curved and running to the posterior end behind straight and running to the basal margin in front of the hne of divarication.
The rest of the surface has narrow impressed lines running obliquely backward and downward except close to the anterior end where there is some very weak obhque corrugation 1920.
381 running to the upper anterior margin.
The pallial sinus is deep extending past the beaks.
The right valve has two diverging cardinal teeth and a pink spot on the hinge margin on each side of the cardinal region.
Length 11.4 altitude 6.3 diameter 3 mm.
Fig.
16.
 Heteroglypta kanaka n. sp.
Off Waikiki near Honolulu 3550 fms.
D. B. Langford.
While it differs from H. contrarius Dh.
in proportions of the shell and arrangement of the sculptureareas I have not found any more closely related species.
Loripes Pillucina spaldingi n. sp.
Fig.
17.
The shell is rather strong roundedoval higher than long very plump white with some unevenly spaced grayish streaks along darker lines of gi'owtharrest.
Sculpture of rather irregular but close concentric wrinkles and radial Hnes which are distinct at the ends but nearly obsolete in the median part.
Beaks rather prominent median.
Anterior end evenly rounded posterior end less produced and less convex basal margin strongly convex.
Lunule small rather deeply impressed wider and deeper in the right valve.
The internal margin is finely crenulate.
Cavity of the beaks narrow and deep.
There is a stout median cardinal tooth in the right valve a prominent Fig.
17.
 Loripes spaldingi n. sp.
erect triangular anterior cardinal in the left.
No laterals.
Anterior adductor scar elongate shown too short in the figure.
Length 7.4 altitude 8.5 diameter 6.5 mm.
Oahu Kaneohe Bay Spalding Thurston and Pilsbry type locality Paumalu W. A. Bryan.
This little clam is related to the Japanese Lucina parvula Gld.
L. pisidium Dkr.
 but it is plumper and higher.
Lateral teeth seem to be entirely wanting.
These species appear to represent a new subgenus of Loripes Pillucina L. spaldingi being the type.
Shell plump with radial sculpture the anterior adductor scar less elongate.
Loupes is here used as defined by Dall Proc.
U. S. N. Mus.
XXI II p. 803.
December 21.
 The President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D. in the Chair.
Fiftyseven persons present.
Officers Councillors and members of the Committee on Accounts were elected for the ensuing year as follows President John Cadwalader A.M. LL.D.
VicePresidents Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. Henry Skinner M.D.
Recording Secretary James A. G. Rehn.
Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Treasurer George Vaux Jr.
Librarian Edward J. Nolan M.D. Sc.D.
Curators Witmer Stone A.M. Sc.D. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Henry Tucker M.D. Spencer Trotter M.D.
Councillors to serve three Years Charles B. Penrose M.D. Charles Morris WilHam E. Hughes M.D. Roswell C. Williams.
Committee on Accounts Charles Morris. Samuel N.
Rhoads. John G.
Rothermel. Thomas Stewart M.D. Walter Horstmann.
On the election of his successor as Recording Secretary in pursuance to a resolution adopted at the meeting in November Dr. Edward J. Nolan became Recording Secretary Emeritus for hfe.
Annual Reports were received from the Recording Secretary the Corresponding Secretary the Librarian the Curators the Treasurer the auditors of the Treasm'er's accounts the Treasurer of the Manual of Conchology the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections and from the following sections of the Academy Biological and Microscopical Entomological Botanical Ornithological Mineralogical and Geological.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following papers for publication Additional Notes on the Deal Meteorite by F. J. Keeley.
Description of a New Cyprinoid Fish Notropis stonei with Notes on other Fishes obtained in the United States by Henry W. Fowler.
The deaths of Theodore C. Search May 10 1920 and Alfonso de Figaniere members were announced.
The following was ordered to be printed
