DESCRIPTION OF A NEW CYPRINOID FISH NOTROPIS STONEI WITH NOTES ON OTHER FISHES OBTAINED IN THE UNITED STATES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Several small collections of fishes obtained in various parts of the United States have been received at the Academy recently.
A summary is presented herewith of those not reported previously mainly as short annotated lists.
One species obtained in South Carolina is described as new and several others are recorded within new faunal regions or at new localities.
New Jersey.
Mr. Henry S. Drinker has contributed interesting data on various sharks secured at Beach Haven.
Dr. R. O.
Van Deusen visited Blackwood in late April 1920 and Tuckahoe in Cape May County on May 23 1920.
On September 12 1920 the writer with Mr. Edwin Fowler visited Laurie's Pond at Lakeside near Yardville in Mercer County.
Mr. Wm.
T. Innes visited Corson's Inlet on October 17 1920 and sent a few notes on several common species seen there.
Carcharias taurus Rafinesque.
Jaws of a small example about 3 feet long obtained at Brigantine during the past summer.
Carcharodon carcharias Linne.
Mr. Drinker reports a large example taken in a pound at Beach Haven in early July 1920.
A small section of its skin together with some copepods with which it was infested were received later.
As the specimen was largely butchered Mr. Drinker had no opportunity to secure measurements or other data.
This ferocious shark is only known in New Jersey waters from two previous records.
The first notice is by Hussakof who mentions seeing two teeth of a freshly caught specimen alleged from the New Jersey coast in early June of 1916.
He estimated this specimen at 7 or 8 feet in length.
Nichols reports the second example from off South Amboy July 14 1916 which he saw mounted and measured 7 feet in length.
These records appear to have been the only ones in 1916 suggesting that the shark scare of that season may have been due in part to the presence of the great white shark.
Our record shows that the species occurs casually.
It may be present more frequently than is generally supposed.
Eulamia milherti Miiller and Henle.
Mr. Drinker secured one August 8 1919 8 feet 6 inches in length which weighed 300 lbs.
Another caught August 5 1920 was 8 feet 7 inches long girth at gills 45 inches and weight 300 lbs.
These were captured at Beach Haven as well as two smaller examples without detailed data but which show the teeth slightly more serrate or the serrse coarser.
Jaws from an example secured recently at St. Thomas West Indies by Mr. N. P. Alexander agree in every respect.
Hypoprion hrevirostris Poey.
Mr. Drinker secured a fine example of this species at Beach Haven on July 11 1919.
It measured 9 feet 6 inches in length and weighed 265 lbs.
The jaws have been received at the Academy.
This is the first record so far as I know of the occurrence of the shortnosed shark in New Jersey waters or north of the Carolinas.
It is therefore another interesting addition to our local fauna.
Sphyrna zygcena Linne.
Mr. L. Hoffman reported two examples each about 7 feet in length at Beach Haven on September 11 1920.
Other species also seen by him at this locality were Mustelus canis eggcase of large skate containing embryo probably Raja ocellata Pomatornus saltatrix Roccus lineatus Cynoscion regalis Scicenops ocellafus Micropogon undulatus Leiostomus xanthurus Menticirrhus saxatilis Pogonias cromis.
Pomolohus pseudoharengus Wilson.
Blackwood.
Ameiurus natalis Le Suem.
Blackwood and Tuckahoe.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Lakeside.
Semotilus hullaris Rafinesque.
Blackwood.
Ahramis crysoleucas Mitchell.
Tuckahoe.
Catostomus commersonnii Lacepede.
Blackwood and Tuckahoe also the next.
Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus Mitchill.
Anguilla rostrata Le Sueur.
Tuckahoe and Lakeside also the next.
Esox americanus Gmelin.
Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill.
Blackwood and Tuckahoe.
Umbra pygmcea De Kay.
Lakeside.
Fundulus majalis Walbaum.
Corson's Inlet with the next two.
Fundulus heterochtus macrolepidotus Walbaum.
Cyprinodon variegatus Lacepede.
Euleptorhamphus brevoortii Gill.
The head of an adult example now in the Academy was secured by Dr Witmer Stone.
It was given to him by a collector Mr. Cunningham who picked it up on i the beach at Cape May several years ago.
But a single previous New Jersey record is known and that is still represented by the example in the Academy obtained at Atlantic City in 1870 and reported by Cope.
The species is rare on the coast of the United States.
Menidia menidia notata Mitchill.
Corson's Inlet with the next.
Trachinotus carolinus Linne.
Seserinus paru Linne.
Dr. Van Deusen sent a fine example received from Fortescue on Delaware Bay July 13.
He also reports 40 examples taken at Atlantic City at the same time.
These are the first definite records we have for this species in New Jersey as Abbott only refers to it in 18QS as Peprilus longimanus and vaguely from our coast.
Pomoxis sparoides Lacepede.
Blackwood.
Acantharchus pomotis Baird.
Tuckahoe with the next two.
Enneacanthus gloriosus Holbrook.
Mesogonistius choetodon Baird.
Lepomis auritus Linne.
Blackwood with the next.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes.
Pomotis gibbosus Linne.
Blackwood and Lakeside.
Micropterus salmoides Lacepede.
Blackwood with the next.
Perca fiavescens Mitchill .
Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi Storer.
Tuckahoe and Lakeside.
Orthopristis chrysopterus Linne.
Two at Ocean City July 30 by Prof. C. La Wall and one at same place September 17 by Mr. D. McCadden.
Tauioga onitis Linne.
Corson's Inlet.
Pennsylvania.
Several collections were made by the writer with Dr. R. 0.
Van Deusen and Mr. Frederick Morrell July 5 1920 in Montgomery County Mine Run a tributary of the Perkiomen near Audubon Skippack Creek near Lower Providence western tributary of the Perkiomen near Doe Run and another near Yerkes Perkiomen at Yerkes West Swamp Creek a tributary of the Perkiomen at Zieglerville  Rich Valley Creek at Sumneytown  North East Branch of Perkiomen Creek.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Yerkes and North East Branch of Perkiomen also the next.
Schilheodes insignis Richardson.
Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill.
Near Doe Run and at Yerkes.
Abramis crysoleucas Mitchill.
North East Branch of Perkiomen.
Notwpis whipplii analostanus Girard.
Lower Providence Yerkes Zieglerville Sumneytown and North East Branch of Perkiomen.
Notwpis cornutus Mitchill.
Same as last except not found at Zieglerville.
Notropis photogenis amoenus Abbott.
Three examples 64 to 83 mm.
in length from Lower Providence.
The smallest has a distorted vertebral column so that its body in the vertical axis appears slightly sigmoid after the dorsal fin.
The others are the largest examples I ever secured and are spawning females full of ova.
Their depth is 4 to 4.
They were obtained in a pool possibly 30 inches deep and are without brilliant coloration.
Rhinichthys atronasus Mitchill.
Mine Run near Doe Run and at Yerkes.
Cyprinus carpio Llnne.
Yerkes.
Catostomus commersonnii Lacepede.
Mine Run Lower Providence Yerkes and North East Branch of Perkiomen.
Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus Mitchill.
Yerkes.
Anguilla rostrata Le Sueur.
Yerkes and North East Branch of Perkiomen.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
North East Branch of Perkiomen.
Leporms auritus Linne.
Yerkes Zieglerville and North East Branch.
Pomotis gihhosus Linne.
Yerkes and North East Branch.
Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede.
North East Branch.
Perca flavescens Mitchill.
Yerkes.
Delaware.
Nine collections were made by the writer with Messrs. H. E. Thompson and L. Dorsey in the lower part of the State West Branch of the Nanticoke and East Branch 4 miles west of Harrington October 3 1920 headwaters of Brown's Branch near Harrington October 4 Cedar Creek south of Lincoln City from the P. R. R. down its lower course and passing two milldams October 4 Indian River at Millsboro October 5 estuary of creek flowing from Dagsboro near Indian River Bay October 5  Ocean View October 5 headwaters of Herring Creek and lower fresh waters of same October 6.
Brevoortia tyrannus Latrobe.
School of small ones in Indian River just below Millsboro.
Anchovia mitchilli Valenciennes.
Mouth of stream from Dagsboro.
Schilbeodes gyrinus Mitchill.
East and West Branches ofNanticoke.
Ahramis crysoleucas Mitchill.
West Branch of Nanticoke Cedar Creek at first dam Millsboro and lower Herring Creek.
Notropis hudsonius amarws Girard.
West Branch of Nanticoke.
Notropis chalybceus Cope.
Cedar Creek at first and second dams and lower Herring Creek.
Erimyzon sucetta ohlongus Mitchill.
East Branch of Nanticoke.
Anguilla rosirata Le Sueur.
West Branch of Nanticoke and fresh pond at estuary of Herring Creek.
Esox americanus Gmelin.
West Branch of Nanticoke and Cedar Creek at upper dam.
Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill.
Cedar Creek at both dams Millsboro and Herring Creek headwaters.
Umbra pygmcea De Kay .
West Branch of Nanticoke.
Fundidus majais Walbaum.
Estuaries from Dagsboro and Herring Creek.
Fundulus heteroclitus macrokpidotus Walbaum.
Localities as for last species and in ditch at Ocean View.
Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
Fresh ponds along Herring Creek estuary.
Lucania parva Baird.
Ocean View and Herring Creek also the next.
Cyprinodon variegaius Lacepede.
Gambusia affinis Baird and Girard.
Lower dam on Cedar Creek Millsboro Ocean View and Herring Creek.
In ponds and often in fresh water.
Memdia benjlUna Cope.
Stream from Dagsboro and lower Herring Creek.
Menidia menidta notata Mitchill.
Estuary from Dagsboro stream.
Apeltes quadracus Mitchill.
Millsboro.
Aphredoderus sayanus Gilliams.
West Branch of Nanticoke Creek.
Brown's Branch upper Cedar Creek and first dam.
Trachinotus carolinus Linne.
The only fish we found in the surf at Bethany Beach.
Along the shores of Delaware Bay at Slaughter Beach the following were reported recently or during the warm period in late September Mustelus cams Raja eglanteria Dasyatis say Brevoortia tyrannus Alosa sapidissima Pomolohus pseudoharengus Cynoscion regalis Leiostonius xanthurus and Micropogon undulatus.
But one Acipenser sturio reported taken at the fishery below during the spring.
Acantharchus pomotis Baird.
We captured a single adult in the upper waters of Herring Creek This is an interesting addition to the fauna of the State.
Enneacanthus gloriosus Holbrook.
East and West Branches of the Nanticoke Cedar Creek at both dams and Herring Creek in fresh water.
Mesogonistius choetodon Baird.
Upper dam on Cedar Creek.
Lepo7nis auntus Linne.
West Branch of Nanticoke.
Pomotis gibbosus Linne.
With the last also in Cedar Creek at the upper dam and in brackish water of stream from Dagsboro.
Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi Storer.
West Branch of Nanticoke and Brown's Branch.
Boleichthys fusiforniis Girard.
West Branch of Nanticoke and Cedar Creek at both dams.
Cynoscion nebulosus Cuvier.
Estuary from Dagsboro stream also the next.
Pseudopleurofiectes americanus Walbaum.
Maryland. Small collections were made in Barrow Creek tributary to the Rhodes River and Glebe Creek a fresh tributary of the South River in Anne Arundel County during May of 1920 with Mr. R. M Abbott.
In Cecil County Mr. H. L. Mather and the writer visited Elk Neck and Piney Creek Cove on the Elk River September 25 1920.
Two days later Stony Run and streams about North East and Charlestown were examined.
Ameiurus catus Linne.
Elk Neck.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Glebe Creek.
Hybognathus nuchalis regius Girard.
Elk Neck and Piney Creek Cove.
Abramis crysoleucas Mitchill.
Glebe Creek Stony Run and North East.
 The only Virginia fishes received recently are a number of Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidolus from the Warwick River from partly salt water.
They were obtained by Dr. Henry Tucker March 5 1919.
Notropis hifrenatus Cope.
Piney Creek Cove.
Notropis hudsonius amarus Girard.
Elk Neck.
Notropis ivhippUi analostanus Girard.
Stony Run and second brook above Chariest own.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Stony Run.
Erimyzon sucetta ohiongus Mitchill.
Piney Creek Cove.
Anguilla rostrata Le Sueur Barrow Creek and North East.
Fundulus heteroclitus macroleptdotus Walbaum Barrow Creek.
Fimdulus diaphanus Le Sueur.
Piney Creek Cove and North East also the next.
Menidia herylhna Cope.
Menidia menidia yiotata Mitchill.
Barrow Creek.
Apeltes quadracus Mitchill.
Piney Creek Cove.
Seserinus paru Linne.
One from the Rhodes River obtained by Mr. Abbott September 25 1920.
E nneacanthus gloriosus H.ohvook.
Piney Creek Cove.
Lepomis auritus Linne.
North East.
Pomotis gibhosus Linne.
Piney Creek Cove Elk Neck and North East.
Percaflavescens Mitchill .
Elk Neck second brook above Charlestown and North East.
Boleosoma nigrum olmMedi Storer.
Piney Creek Cove.
Roccus lineatus Block.
Elk Neck North East with next.
Morone americana Gmelin.
Leiostomus xanihurus Lacepede.
Barrow Creek.
Micropogon undulatus Linne.
Barrow Creek and Elk Neck.
Gobiosoma bosc Lacepede.
Barrow Creek.
South Carolina.
In May of 1917 Dr. Witmer Stone obtained an interesting small collection from the PocataUgo River near Manning.
He had previously visited this locality in 1914 and published a Hst of the fishes obtained then. It is noteworthy that three of the species secured then are not represented in the present collection though there are equally as many present not in the 1914 lot and one appears new to science.
Notropis stonei.new species.
Head 3 depth 4 D. ii 8 A. ii 8 P. I 12 V. I 7 scales 30 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter 7 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 3 below to anal 2 Copeia September 15 1914.
No.
10. origin predorsal scales 18 snout 4 in head eye 3 maxillary 3j interorbital 2 second simple dorsal ray 1 second simple anal ray ll pectoral 1 ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2j upper caudal lobe 1.
Body well compressed edges rounded deepest at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth 1 its length.
Head conic moderately compressed flattened sides moderately approximated below.
Snout wide conic length f its width.
Eye large advanced hind pupil edge nearly midway in head length.
Mouth moderate oblique jaws even.
Maxillary largely concealed reaches eye.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Jaw edges moderately trenchant.
Lips narrow.
Mandible rather shallow and rami little elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils together near last f in snout.
Interorbital broadly and evenly convex.
Gillopening forward about opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers small weak obsolete or scarcely evident.
Filaments about half of eye.
Isthmus narrow especially forward where frenum narrow.
Pharyngeal teeth 54 well hooked and broad grinding surfaces entire.
Scales large well exposed more or less uniform on trunk and smaller on caudal base belly and breast.
Scales cycloid basal radiating striae 9 circuli rather coarse 16 to 20 weak and obsolete apically.
Scales disposed in longitudinal rows parallel with 1.
1. which continuous to caudal base and well decurved forward small tubes simple.
Dorsal origin about midway between hind eye edge and caudal base second simple ray longest.
Anal rather well developed like dorsal inserted little nearer caudal base than pectoral origin.
Caudal moderate emarginate behind.
Pectoral moderate not quite reaching ventral.
Last inserted well before dorsal reaches anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol faded dull brown paler or whitish below.
Dark lateral band begins at snout tip and extends to caudal base and on sides forward expanded until much wider than eye.
Fins all pale ventral and anal slightly whitish.
Dorsal with dusky blotch forward near base.
Lateral dark band ends in dusky blotch at caudal base size of pupil which reflected out on median caudal rays basally.
Along back pale longitudinal line separates color from back above.
Length 36 mm.
Type No.
50118 A. N. S. P. Pocataligo River near Manning.
May 1917.
Dr. Witmer Stone.
Paratypes Nos.
50109 to 50121 same data.
Head 3f to 3 depth 4i to 4 D. ii 7 or 8 A. ii 8 scales 29 
to 32 in lateral line to caudal base and several more on latter predorsal scales 15 or 16 snout 3 1 to 3 1 in head from upper jaw tip eye 2 to 3 maxillary 2 to 3 interorbital 3 to 3 length 20 to 35 mm.
Of this species I have seen only the above examples.
They apparently represent a species allied in the subgenus Alhurnops as the pharyngeal teeth are uniserial and well hooked lateral line complete and large scales less than 40 well exposed.
N. stonei may readily be distinguished from the other lowland species of the genus A'' roseus and N. chayhoBus by its extremely broad dark lateral band and dark blotch on the dorsal fin.
For Dr. Witmer Stone who collected the types.
Notropis stonei new species.
Notropis chalyhceus Cope.
Four examples.
Fundulus nottii Agassiz.
Abundant.
Gambusia affinis Baird and Girard.
Very abundant females more so and greatly larger than males.
Largest female 58 mm Chcenohryttus gulosus Cuvier.
Several.
Enneacanthus gloriosus Holbrook.
Five examples all dull in color.
Georgia.
On March 25 1904 Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn secured a few fishes in a small stream at Thomasville.
Abramis crysoleucas bosci Valenciennes.
Fifteen examples.
Enmyzon sucetta Lacepede.
One.
Esox ameyicanus Gniehn .
One.
Fundulus nottii Agassiz.
Four.
Lepomis megalotis Rafinesque .
Ten.
Also one on March 30.
Florida.
Mr. Morgan Hebard obtained a fine lot of small fishes from the Everglades about Miami in March 1920.
Mr. Howard R. Hill sent a number of specimens and notes on the fishes noticed during the fall of 1920 in Pensacola Bay near Pensacola.
These are all indicated by the letter P. Scoliodon terrcenovce Richardson.
P. Dasyatis sahina Le Sueur.
Three young from Allenhurst Julj 1917.
H. W. Aitken.
These show the front margins of the disk slightly concave opposite the nostrils.
Elops saurus Linne.
P. Harengula pensacolce Goode and Bean.
Young from Useppa Island Lee County obtained by Mr. Hebard in 1919.
Brevoortia tyrannus patronus Goode.
P. Anchovia mitchilli Valenciennes.
P. Gymnothorax funehris Ranzani.
P. Fundulus similis Baird and Girard.
Two smaller ones from Useppa Island Charlotte Harbor in May 1919 obtained by Mr. Hebard.
Fundidus grandis Baird and Girard.
Abundant and all of modererate size and variable.
In alcohol many males with orange caudal ventral and anal borders.
In other specimens these fins gray.
Tamiami Canal Everglades.
March 8 to 12.
1920.
Fundulus confluentus Goode and Bean.
Large series from the Tamiami Canal.
The species is more abundant than the preceding which it greatly resembles.
It may be distinguished at a glance by at least one blackish or dusky vertical line or bar on the caudal basally also the presence of a black blotch ocellated with white on the last dorsal rays which occurs in both sexes.
It is very variable the back mostly finely spotted with black or dusky which usually assumes a greatly mottled appearance.
In one example approaching melanism the groundcolor in alcohol is pale warm brown above greatly specked or spotted with blackish the spots completely covering dorsal and caudal fins and extending well down side.
Dark lateral bars very variable in intensity mostly distinct or pronounced in males and young.
Male also with pectoral anal and caudal more or less gamboge.
Fundulus cingulatus Valenciennes.
Four from the Tamiami Canal.
Color in alcohol largely dull olivaceous with rounded pale scattered pearly spots on side.
Anal with 9 branched rays.
JordaneUa floridce Goode and Bean.
Abundant at Muck Tamiami Canal.
In alcohol back shows 4 to 6 dullbrown saddlelike blotches.
Younger or smaller examples more contrasted with 7 or 8 dull brown vertical bars which may be interrupted above to form alternately with dark blotches along back.
All show black median lateral blotch.
MoUienisia latipinna Le Sueur.
Very abundant at Muck with the preceding.
Corytkoichthys albirostris Kaup.
One received from Mrs. George Eubank through Mr. Clarence B. Moore from Marco in Lee County obtained in April 1919.
Cypselurus heterurus Rafinesque.
Many young about 40 in all from Miami Beach obtained by Mr. Hebard.
Largest 50 mm. smallest 13.
These show great variation.
The pectoral reaches back nearly far as tip of depressed ventral.
Of the specimens counted anal shows 10 branched rays.
Lower part of sides usually with 5 large dusky blotches.
Pectoral blackish.
Dorsal dark though in some small examples dusky and anal white like caudal.
Strongylura notata Poey.
P. Strongyhira timucu Walbaum.
P. Membras vagrans Goode and Bean.
Small example from near Useppa Island in Lee County May 1920.
Memdia heryllina Cope .
Young with the last.
Mugil cephalus Linne.
Two in the Querimana stage from near Useppa Island.
Both have A. ii 9 and are 2223 mm.
in length.
Sarda sarda Bloch .
P. Scomberonorus maculatus Mitchill.
P. Selar crumenophthalmus Bloch .
P. Selene vomer Linne.
P. Vomer setapinnis Mitchill.
P. Trachmotus falcatus Linne.
One from Miami Beach.
Length 15 mm.
D. VII 20 A. iii 18.
Seserinus paru Linne .
P. Coryphcena hippurus Linne.
Seven from Miami Beach largest 50mm.
Gobiomorus gronovii Gmelin.
Six from Miami Beach.
Chcenohryttus gulosus Cuvier Abundant at Muck in the Tamiami Canal Lepomis pundatus Valenciennes.
Eight from the Tamiami Canal at Muck.
All with long gillrakers and pectorals shorter than head.
Spots variable.
Lepomis megalotis Rafinesque.
Very abundant with the last two.
All small and quite variable in color.
Many especially larger show a slightly darker spot on each scale basally in alcohol.
Most all show pale blue bars or lines on the snout side of head and cheek.
In none though often wide is the opercular flap produced.
Many show dark fins.
In all the rakers are short rather weak and mostly less than 10.
Pectoral always much less than head.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes.
Four from the Tamiami Canal.
Largely silvery when fresh in alcohol.
No blue lines on side of head.
Pectoral long as head and rakers lanceolate.
Though small these appear more slender than in the last species.
Epinephelus striatus Bloch. P. EpinepheJus morio Valenciennes.
P. Garrupa nignta Holbrook.
P. Promicrops guttatus Linne.
During the winter of 1905 Capt.
Willoughby secured a large adult example at Ft. Lauderdale the skull of which is in the collection.
Myderoperca falcata phenax Jordan and Swain.
P. Lutjanus aya Bloch.
P. Lagodon rhomhoides Linne.
P. Cynoscion nothus Holbrook.
P. Bairdiella dirysura Lacepede.
P. Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede.
P. Menticirrhus americanus Linne.
P. Ahudefduf marginatus Bloch.
Young example 15 mm.
long from Miami Beach.
HaUchceres bivittatus Bloch.
P. Alutera schcepfii Walbaum.
P. Chilomyderus schcepfii Walbaum.
Two from South Boca Grande in Boca Grande Pass.
Collected by Mr. Hebard in May 1920.
These are exactly the reverse of Eigenmann's statement that in the young there seems to be more lines than in the old.
Two speci' Mr. Hebard secured an example of Apogonichthys stellatus Cope 43 mm.
long at North Bimini Island Bahamas March 13 1920. mens examined 3 inches long have 17 hnes between the pectorals a specimen 5 inches long has 10 lines and the largest specimen examined 10 inches long has 12 lines.
My larger example 155 mm.
long has 21 lines between the pectorals the smaller example 132 mm.
long has 10 lines between the pectorals.
Their general colorpattern is similar even to the disposition of the black blotches though these are quite variable likewise the armature.
The fins are pale or whitish and uniform in color.
Prionotus tribulus Bloch.
P. Citharichthys macrops Dresel.
P. Opsanus tau Linne.
Allenhurst.
November 11 1917.
H. W. Aitken.
Gobiesox strujnosus Cope.
Small one from an empty shell at Captiva Pass south end of Lacost Island.
Obtained by Mr. Hebard in May 1920.
Histrio histrio Linne.
Of 21 young from Miami Beach largest 45 mm.
These show great variation in colorpattern and even the smaller ones may be coarsely or finely variegated.
Illinois.
With two exceptions as noted the following were secured by Mr. W. T. Innes in a small tributary of the IlHnois River at Marley in September 1 1912.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque.
Chrosomus erythrogaster Rafinesque.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Notropis athermoides Rafinesque.
Mr. C. J. Hunt sent eight examples from the West Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River January 24 1911.
Fundulus notatus Rafinesque.
Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede.
Percina caprodes Rafinesque.
Two obtained by Mr. Innes from Fox Lake in October 1920.
Boleosoma nigrum Rafinesque.
Poecilichthys coeruleus Storer.
Pcecilichthys fiahellaris Rafinesque.
Cottus hairdii Girard.
 Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. 3 18835 1885 p. 308.
 Also several examples of Semotilus atromaculatus and Perca fiavescens from Wawasee Indiana obtained July 12 1913.
398 proceedings of the academy of dec Wisconsin.
Mr. H. T. Wolf obtained the following in Booth's fish market Milwaukee during the summer of 1906 Coregonus quadrilateralis Richardson.
Lake Superior Coregonus clupeaformis Mitchill.
Lakes Superior and Michigan and Georgian Bay.
Leucichthys nigri'pinnis Milner.
Milwaukee.
Leucichthys prognathus H. M. Smith.
Milwaukee.
Salvelinus fontinalis Mitchill.
Lakes Superior and Michigan.
Cristivomer naniaycush Walbaum.
Milwaukee.
Micropterus salmoides Lacepede.
Fox Lake.
Stizostedion vitreum Mitchill.
Milwaukee also next two.
Stizostedion canadense Griffiths.
Perm Zafescens Mitchill.
Minnesota.
Mr. F. L. Tappan secured the following about Minneapolis during September 1911 Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill.
Notropis heterodon Cope.
Notiopis cornutus Mitchill.
Schilheodes gyrinus Mitchill.
Umbra limi Kirtland .
Cedar Iake.
Labidesthes sicculus Cope.
Eucalia mconstans Kirtland .
Ponioxis sparoides Lacepede.
Lepomis megalotis Rafinesque.
Boleosoma nigrum Rafinesque.
Missouri.
Mr. Julius Hurter sent a smaU collection in July 1912 from Fox Creek a tributary of the Meramec River at a point about 26 miles from St. Louis  Ichthyomyzon concolor Kirtland.
Adult.
Scaphirhynchus platorynchus Rafinesque.
Young example.
Polyodon spathula Walbaum.
Young.
Lepisosteus platostomus Rafinesque.
Young.
Amiatus calvus Linne.
Small example.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque.
One from St. Louis in fall of 1915.
Chrosom.us erythrogaster Rafinesque.
Several.
Pimephales notatus Rafinesque.
One from St. Louis received from Mr. W. T. Innes in 1918.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Adult.
Notropis zonatus Agassiz.
Two.
Lepomis humilis Girard.
One from St. Louis.
Obtained from Mr. Innes November 1 1920.
Poedlichthys cceruJeus Storer.
Several.
Coitus hairdii Girard.
Several.
Arizona.
 Several species were secured by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry in the fall of 1910 for the Academy.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque .
Dr. Witmer Stone obtained 6 young examples in a stream in Rucker Canyon headwaters of the Rio Yaqui basin at 6500 feet elevation in the Chiricahua Mountains July 8 1919.
Leuciscus intennedius Girard.
Very many from the Santa Cruz River at Tuecon September 4 1910 and a single example from the Salt River tributary of the Gila at Tempe September 5 1910.
Some of the larger examples tuberculated.
These and the next all in Dr. Pilsbry's collections in the Academy.
Cyprinodon macularius Baird and Girard.
One from the Salt River at Tempe.
Mollienisia occidentalis Baird and Girard.
Many with the last and from the Santa Cruz River at Tuecon.
Utah.
The following were collected by Mr. Herbert J.
Pack of Logan during the past season.
Leuciscus lineatus Girard.
Very many small ones from Hanyton Bridge Bear River at Fielding August 15.
These all show but a short lateral line not extending beyond the dorsal in the largest.
Abundant in warm spring at Udy's Springs Riverside in Boulder County August 12.
The largest example from Magna measures 100 mm.
It and many young from slightly muddy fresh water July 31.
Leuciscus phlegethontis Cope.
Two from meadowstreams in western part of Logan August 9.
Length 31 to 42 mm.
Color of  Mr. S. N. Rhoads obtained the following in the fresh waters of the Colorado River delta in the vicinity of the Hardy River Mexico in the early spring of 1905 Ameiurus nebidosus Xyrauchen texanus Gila elegans Cyprinus carpio and Mugil cephalus.
larger example when fresh in alcohol with median dusky lateral band from snout including mandible tip to caudal base.
This band very distinct and composed of rather large dots.
Parallel from upper eye edge back to caudal peduncle and defining color of back narrower similar band or line mostly pale posteriorly.
From pectoral axil side of body below broad dark lateral band pale cadmium to anal base and more yellowish on lower surface of caudal peduncle.
Axils of pectoral and ventral more or less tinged with pale citronyellow also basal portions of paired fins.
Breast belly and lower surface of head white.
Dorsal and caudal dull olive other fins pale with dusky terminal tints.
Also two from small pond at edge of railroad.
Salt Lake City August 31.
Agosia nuhila carringtoni Cope.
Abundant in meadow streams in western Logan August 9.
Most with lateral Une incomplete and barbel absent.
Cyprinus carpio Linne.
One from Hanyt.on Bridge.
Cottus semiscaher Cope.
Abundant in meadow streams in western Logan August 9.
Largest 58 mm.
Nevada.
Agosia nevadensis Gilbert.
Twelve examples largest 55 mm.
long from the Amargosa River at Beatty August 12 1919.
Obtained by Messrs. J.
A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard.
These fish were found in small schools in the larger pools and moderately plentiful.
California.
During the late fall of 1897 the Academy received from Prof. Harold Heath a collection of fishes from Pacific Grove all of which are still in good condition.
These are indicated by the letter P. I have also included several notes given by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn on some of the larger fishes seen by him at Santa Catahna in the summer of 1907.
Polistotrema stouti Lockington.
P. Galeorhinus zyopterus Jordan and Gilbert.
Four small gray sharks at Santa Catalina about 3 to 5 feet long were evidently this species.
Raja hinoculata Girard.
P. Torpedo californica Ayres.
P. Hydrolagus colliei Lay and Bennett .
P. Pogonichthys microlepidotus Girard.
Mr. F. S. Curtis forwarded an example of this and the following two species from Arrayo Crista Blanca at Livermore which were received in September 1912.
He says in the winter and early spring this stream flows into the Bay of San Francisco but in the smiimer is only a series of pools.
The head of the stream is coarse gravel several feet deep and the water flows under gi'ound between the deep pools.
None of the pools are more than four feet deep or usually only about two.
The fish were caught in strong sulphur water as just above the pool a strong sulphurspring boiled up in the middle of the creek.
This is so strong that it fills the air with the odor and the stones etc. in the pool are all coated with sulphur.
About a dozen sculpins Coitus gulosus Girard 1 to 2 inches long were caught and were smooth.
Those taken last year at Niles were prickly with the sides rough.
Together with the suckers Catostomus occidentalis Ayres and Sacramento perch Archoplites interruptus Girard they are about the only fish found here.
The gamewardens are glad to have us take the dace as they are very destructive to the trout eggs and fry and in fact the chief enemies they have in these streams. 
Ptychocheilus grandis Ayres .
Myloleucus sy7nmetricus Baird and Girard.
Atherinopsis calijorniensis Girard.
Cypselurus californicus Cooper.
Popular bait for tuna at Santa Catalina.
Retailed for 10 cents each or prices varied with abundance.
Messrs Rehn and Hebard kindly fmnished the note on this species and the following six.
Auxis thazard Lacepede.
Reported occasionally at Santa Catalina.
One seen by Mr. Rehn 4 feet long a mounted dry specimen.
Called Japanese tuna and shortfinned tuna.
Thunnus thynnus Linne.
Fom seen at Santa Catalina and a number of mounted examples.
Previously or ten days before Mr. Rehn's stay 15 to 20 were taken and many more were reported since.
Some were upwards of 168 lbs. and one of such size had a large piece bitten out by a shark.
The examples Mr. Rehn saw ranged from 110 to 125 lbs.
They were captured altogether by rod and reel anglers with flyingfish as bait.
Germo alatuiga Gmelin.
Called albacore and longfinned tuna.
Abundant game fish at Santa Catalina.
Mr. Rehn took two of 18 lbs. one of 20 lbs and one of 27 lbs.
The species attains a weight of 50 lbs.
Seriola dor salts Gill.
''Yellow tail.
Several fresh ones seen at Santa Catalina.
Taken closer in shore than the other fishes.
Tetrapturus mitsukurii Jordan and Snyder.
One example captured September 21 1910 about five miles off the southeastern shore of Santa Catahna measured nine feet in length.
At the time the species was irregular or only a few taken by the anglers.
They break at the surface but do not jump like the tarpon.
They do not strike the hook but take it gradually so that after a short interval the angler sets it with a jerk.
Then a battle ensues for half an hour or more in which time the fish becomes exhausted and is finally gaffed.
Mr. Rehn did not hear the alleged name marlin spikefish for it at Santa Catalina.
Stereolepis gigas Ayres.
Jew fish.
Mr. Rehn reports 6 or 8 large ones on the dock at Santa Catalina and the largest 6 or 7 feet long.
Genyonemus lineaius Ayres.
This and all the following from Pacific Grove Zalembius rosaceus Jordan and Gilbert Cymatogaster aggregatus Gibbons Oxyjuiis calif ornicus Gtinther Sebastodes paucispmus Ayres Sebastodes elongatus Ayres Anoplopoma fimbria Pallas ScorpcenicUhys marmoratus Ayres Hemilepidotus jordani Bean Taranichthys filamentosus Gilbert Eopsetta jordani Lockington Parophrys vetulus Girard Microstomus paaficus Lockington  Glyptocephalus zachirus Lockington Citharichthys sordidus Girard Caularchiis neandricus Girard Gibbonsia evides Jordan and Gilbert Anoplarchus atropurpureus Kittlitz Xiphidion rupestre Jordan and Gilbert Anarrichthys ocellatus Ayres Chilara taylori Girard Porichthys notatus Girard.
1920.
403
