DESCRIPTION OF SOME SPECIES OF REPTILES OBTAINED BY DR. JOHN F. BRANSFORD, ASSISTANT SURGEON UNITED STATES NAVY, WHILE ATTACHED TO THE NICARAGUAN SURVEYING EXPEDITION IN 1873.
BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M.
The collection, though not large, embraces a number of interesting new and rare species besides those usually obtained in the region of Nicaragua.
The whole number is twenty-eight, distributed as follows: serpents 12, lizards 9, tortoise 1, and Batrachia 6.
Several interesting points in geographical distribution are established.
I have added descriptions of three new snakes, one from near the same, and two from more southern localities.
OPHIDIA.
PlioceroTis dimidiatus, Cope.
Ophibolus micropholis, Cope.
Spilotes puUatus, L. var.
Of the typical form ; scales in fifteen or sixteen rows, the outer smaller, several median considerably enlarged, the more central only faintly keeled; generally biporous.
Only seven superior labials, the e^ye over the fourth and chiefly the fifth ; sixth and seventh much enlarged, and nearly reaching the parietal shield, being only separated by a single narrow temporal each.
Orbitals 1-2, the anterior nearly reaching the frontal.
Loreal small, longer than high ; nasals two, quite elongate.
Frontal longer than wide, with broad front and concave sides.
Parietals wide, truncate, followed by four scuta, the two outer the larger.
Temporals 1-1 or 1-1-1.
Inferior labials eight or nine, separated from the anterior gastrosteges by two rows of elongate scales on each side, in continuation of the geneials.
The general form is elongate ; head a long oval ; muzzle not prominent.
Gastrosteges 220; an entire anal; mosteges 118.
General color black ; near the middle of the length yellow spots appear at intervals on the belly, and increase in extent and frequenc}^ until they occupy most of the space anteriorly.
On the upper surface a few 3'ellow spots appear at remote intervals on the anterior half.
A yellow band extends across the occiput from angle to angle of the mouth, and one across behind the orbits.
There are large yellow spots on the frontal and snperciliaries, and the prefontals and labials are yellow-black bordered.
Masticophis pulcherrimus, sp.
nov. Scales in quincunx, in seventeen subeqnal series, all smooth, many of them with two apical pores.
Teeth subequal, without noticeable diastemata.
Form very slender ; tail one-third the total length.
Gastrosteges weakly angulated, anal divided.
Head flat, rostral low ; loreal twice as long as high ; prefontal not reaching frontal, which is quite narrow ; occipitals wide oval.
Temporals 2-2-1-2 and 2-1-1-2.
Superior labials nine, fourth, fifth, and sixth bounding orbit.
Geneials slender.
Total length m. .875 ; tail .285 ; gastrosteges .205 ; urosteges .152.
Ground color clay-white; a black band occupying two and two half rows of scales extends on each side from the orbit to the end of the tail.
The dorsal interval is one and two half scales in width, and was j-ellowish or reddish in life, except anteriorly, where it is an emerald-green.
This brilliant color extends over the entire top of the head.
Lips white.
This species is as slender as, and is partially colored as, some of the tree-snakes of the genus Ahsetulla.
From a small collection made on the "western side of Central America" by Prof George Davidson, which also contains EJcrps viigrocinctus, Gir., Trimorphodon major, Cope, Boa eques Eyd-Soul.
Oxybelis acuminatus, Wied.
Ahaetulla bilineata, Gthr.
Diplotropis Ulineatus Gthr.
Ann.
Magaz.
Nat.
Hist., 1872, p. 24.
Ahsetulla mexicana, D. B. Leptodira annulata, L. var.
Dipsas cenchoa, L. Leptognathus atypicus, sp.
nov. Belonging to sec.
vi.
of my monograph of this genus,^ that is, with smooth equal scales, and short geneials separated b^' but one pair of labials from the syniphyseals.
The body is rather stout, and, unlike most of the genus, nearl^^ cylindric ; the neck is not contracted, but the head is wide and flat, and the muzzle short.
Scales rather wide; in fifteen rows.
Kostral plate subtriangular; a subquadrate loreal; no preocular; postoculars 2; temporals 2X3.
Frontal and parietals broad and short, the latter truncate.
Superior labials six, eye over third and fourth, fifth ' Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1868, p. 107. and sixth elongate.
Inferior labials ten, mostly transverse ; four pairs of geneials, all except the first broader than long.
Tail short, m. .047 in length, from a total of ni.
.243.
Color pale, with black transverse spots, which are wide anteriorly (the second covers seven transverse rows of scales) and become gradually narrower, having a width of only two cross-rows on the hinder part of the body.
Posteriorly their lateral ends are broken off, and alternate Avith the dorsal portion.
A few small blotclies on the ends of the gastrosteges.
This serpent and two fishes were presented to the Academ}' of Natural Sciences with the statement that they wei'e derived from some portion of the Peruvian Andes, from an elevation of twelve thousand feet.
One of the fishes is Trichomycterus dispar, C. Y., and the other is described below as Protistius semotilus} ' Protistius semotilus, gen. et sp.
nov. Family ?MugilidfB.
First dorsal fin represented by a single rudimental spiue ; second originating a little behind the line of the first anal radii.
Ventrals present ; lateral line rudimental.
Mouth bordered above by the premaxillary only, whicli supports a band of rather large bristle -like teeth, those of the outer series the largest.
Dentary bones with strong symphj'sis, with a band of teeth like those of the premaxillary.
Swim-bladder present ; alimentary canal short, simple.
Char.
Sjjecif.
Snout conical both from the lateral and vertical views.
Premaxillary bone viewed from above, wide and angular crescentlc ; top of head moderately convex in cross section, its integument not separated by a fold from the premaxillary.
Lower jaw horizontal and angulated at the rictus, and symphysis, as in the genus Mugil.
Pectoral fin elevated, rather short, the ventral commencing below its apex.
Fin radii D. I.
1.
10 ; P. 15; V. 5; A. I.
13; C. forked 2-J-8 94-2.
Scales 48117; lateral line very imperfect ; isolated tubes visible at various points between scapula and tail.
Head a little more than four times in length minus caudal fin ; depth of body 5.5 times in the same ; caudal peduncle deep.
Eye with round adipose margins, 4.75 times in length of head, and twice in interorbital width.
Top of head, opercula, and cheeks entirely scaled, the latter in four rows.
Above olivaceous, below yellow, a broad lead-colored lateral band on the posterior .66 of the length.
Length to opercular border m. .027, to ventral fins .052, to first dorsal .066, to second dorsal .078 to end of caudal fin .140, all axially measured.
There are three gills and a half, and no pseudobranchus ; the first branchial arch is the only one furnished with rakers.
Branchiostegal radii six.
In its physiognomy this fish is intermediate between that of the MugilidcB Leptognathus nebulatus, L. Elaps nigrocinctus, Gird.
Bothrops atrox, L. Teleuraspis schlegelii, Berth.
Yellow variety with short superciliary horns.
LACERTILIA.
Anolis bransfordii, sp.
nov. Abdominal scales smooth, pavement-like, longer than the dorsal and lateral scales, which are small, subequal, and smooth.
Scales of tail subequal, carinate.
Muzzle medium, shorter (from eye) than wide at orbits.
Auricular meatus large, fully half of eye.
Facial rugse obsolete, bounding a distinct cavity, Avhich is covered b}'^ smooth scales of the size of those on the remaining portions of the muzzle, in six longitudinal series.
Superciliaries wide, separated from each other by one, and from the large occipital bj' two rows of scales.
Twelve supraorbital scuta keeled ; six loreal rows ; fan little developed.
Infralabials equal, small.
Limbs slender, the anterior extending to the groin, the posterior to the end of the muzzle ; dilatations well developed.
Brachial and femoral scales equal ventral.
Tail long and slender.
Color above golden-lead color, beneath silvery, the line of separation defined from the orbit to the groin.
No cress bands on head or body ; front brown speckled ; feet blackish.
and that of Cyprinodontidoi.
The form and scaling of the head and mouth, with the small sphious dorsal, are very similar to those of the Mugils, while the posterior position of the ventral fins and supporting bones, with the simple stomach and intestine, are characters of the latter family.
I was unable to find any ductus pneumaticus, and if it exist it must be very slender.
The weight of evidence is in favor of referring this genus to the Cyprinodontido}, and should its only dorsal spine occasionally be wanting, the reference will be less inappropriate than might at first appear.
The rudimental dorsal consists of a short (.003 m.) spine, but little elevated above the doi-sal line on account of the small extent of the membrane VFhich binds it.
It is well separated from the second dorsal.
This fish must be regarded as an interesting annectaut form between types usually placed in the distinct divisions of Physostomi and Physoclysti.
M. LcDgtli from end muzzle to eye 0057 " " " ear 0105 " " " axilla .
.
'.
.
.0170 " " ' groin 0350 " " " end of tail .
.
.
.1190 This species resembles both tlie A. lo7igicaudus, Hallow., and A.
trochilas., Cope.'
From the former it differs in the smooth abdominal scales, large auricular meatus, etc.
; resembling more the latter.
In A. frochilus^ a line specimen of which accompanies the collection, the scales of the frontal area are much smaller, forming nine rows ; four rows separate the superciliaries from each other and from the occipital.
The muzzle is longer, and the head is marked with brown chevrons and cross-bands.
Dedicated to Dr. Bransford, who has been successful in his zoological investigations in connection with the expedition.
Anolis trochilus, Cope.
A female, with a single larsie e^g in each oviduct.
Anolis cupreus, Hallow.
Anolis biporcatus, Wiegm.
The most southern locality recorded for this species.
Anolis pentaprion, Cope.
The most northern locality yet discovered for this Anolis.
Chamaeleopsis hernandezii, Weig.
Stenodactylus fuscus, Hall.
Sphaerodactylus glaucus, Cope.
Amiva eutropia, Cope.
TESTUDIXATA.
Einosternum leucostomum, Duui.
BATRACHIA.
Bufo sternosignatus, Gthr.
Bufo, spDendrobates auratus, Girard.
Dendrobates Ignitus, sp.
nov. First finger shorter than second ; end of the tarsus of the extended foot reaching the end of the muzzle.
Membranura tyrapani visible, one-fifth the eye slit in extent ; muzzle little prominent, as long as eye measured on the side.
Derm of the back ' Proceed.
Acad.
Sci.
Phila., 1871, 215. .
rather thick and glandular in fresh specimens ; of the belly and limbs smooth.
Color, vermilion red, all four limbs black, in four specimens.
In a fifth which represents a variet}', the red is replaced on the upper surfaces of the body and femur by a pink, which is thickly black speckled ; the faces of all the limbs, which are concealed when the latter are drawn up, are vermilion.
Size small.
M. Length from end muzzle to axilla .... 0.0095 " " " " vent 0115 " of fore limb 0138 " of hind limb 03.
")3 " of hind foot .
.0120 Width at tympana .OOGO " of sacrum 0040 Hyla ebraccata, sp.
nov. Of the type of H. leiicopJiyUata, and perhaps to be regarded as a color variety of it.
It is a very distinct one and probably geographically circumscribed, and hence until intermediate forms are discovered, may be considered as a species.
Head broad, short, lores nearly vertical.
Tympanum one-fifth orl)it; skin above perfectly smootli.
Fingers i)almate to end of first phalange, toes to end of second.
Tongue little free behind ; vomerine teeth in fasciculi opposite anterior margin of nares.
The heel extends to beyond the muzzle, which marks the middle of the forearm.
Color above very light golden-brown ; a deep brown triangular spot between the eyes, whose apex is produced backwards to a similar large spot on the back.
A purplish-brown band from the end of the muzzle to the end of the cocc^'x, which fades below into the white of the belly.
Edges of the upper lip white marked; a large yellow spot telow the eye, and small yellow spots in the lateral band.
On the foreleg, tlie humerus like the forearm is brown above, silver spotted.
On the hind leg, the femur is entirely colorless ; tibia is brown with silver bands and spots ; bases of all the toes colored.
Fingers uncolored except on the metacarpus.
Belly yellow.
Length of head and body 29 mm., width head 11 mm.
Length hind leg 51 mm., to hind foot 22 mm.
Hypsiboas xerophyllum, Dura.
Bibr.
Differing slightl}from the typical form Surinam ; probably a geographical variety.
\ APPENDIX.
Propus vermiformis, gen. et sp.
nov. Char.
Gen. Family Ghalcididae.
Scales smooth, in anniili ; a lateral longitudinal fold.
Limbs one pair, the anterior only, without digits or claws.
A few pores at the side of the vent.
Head shields above, two internasals, one frontal, a narrow superciliary which descends in front of each e3'e, and a pair of parietals.
Nostrils on the suture between intern asal and first labial; a loreal shield.
Tail elongate.
This genus is near to the Ophiognomon^ discovered by Prof. Orton in Equador, and is principally distinguished from it by the absence of the posterior limbs.
Char.
Sjyecijic.
Scales in twenty-six longitudinal rows on the posterior, and twenty rows on the anterior part (with closed lateral folds) of the body, and fifty-one transverse annuli between the nape and the vent.
Anteriorly they are imbricate on the dorsal surface ; posteriorly they are truncate.
The abdominal and thoracic scales are subequal, those of the seventh row from the gular groove excepted, which embrace two between the fore limbs, and are not longer but wider than the others, but not so wide as long.
There are five upper labial plates, of which the third and fourth are of subequal length, and bound the orbit below ; .the second is the least.
A large rhombic temporal separates the fourth and fifth from the parietals, behind which are two others.
There are four narrow inferior labials and three infralabials, of which the two anterior are in contact on the middle line, with those of the opposite side.
They are preceded by a large geneial and small symphyseal.
The last infralabials are separated from each other by four narrower scuta and from the temporal on each side by two scales.
Two pores on each side of the vent, and three elongated scuta in front of it.
Tail subquadrate in section (perhaps contracted). '
Cope, Proceedings Academy, Philadelphia, 1868, p. 100.
M Length of head and body 064 " of head ' .
.
.006 Width of head ' .
.
.004 Length of tail (extremity lost) OHS " of fore limb .
0027 Color, a dark reddish-brown; a dorsolateral series of pale spots one each side, separated by an average width of eiglic scales.
From Xauta on the Peruvian Amazon ; obtained by Professor Orton.
Various peculiarities distinguish this little saurian from the Opliiognomon Irisanale, among which are the more numerous scales, and mutual contact of the second pair of infralabials.
Gerrhosteus prosopis, gen. et sp.
nov. Dentition opisthoglyph ; cranial scuta normal except that the prefrontals are united into a continuous shield.
A loreal and a preocular ; pupil vertical.
Anal scutum undivided;subcaudals two ro'wed.
Scales poreless, smooth, subequal.
The neural spines of the vertebrae each supporting a shield-like expansion, giving a T-shaped cross section, which is divided by a median groove.
This genus is the first of the Ophidia known to possess the osseous expansions common to some genera of Batrachia, etc., of the western tropical part of the Neotropical region, and the miocene salamanders of the genus Chelotriton^ Pom.
The great development of the neural spine is not nnlike that seen in frogs of the genus Dendrohaten^ which are characteristic of this region.
The series of closel}^ consecutive bony parallelograms, forms an elevated rib throughout the length of the animal, which is clearly visible through the skin, which is not involved in it, though thiu and closely adherent.
Tlie structure would appear to be an additional protection to the spinal cord from blows or falling objects.
Char.
Specif.
General appearance that of a L3'codont, while the dental and scutal characters ally it most to Oyrrhopus.
Head an elongate oval, very distinct from the narrow neck ; body fnoderatel}' stout ; tail short, terminating in a corneous spine.
Rostal plate small, not prominent, intern asals small.
Frontal broad as long, straight in front with two subequal lateral facets for the preocular and the short superciliary.
Parietals elongate.
Nasal apparently single, large, descending nearly to the edge of the lips.
Dorsal small, not longer than high.
Preocular large, postoculavs two, small, ^ye small.
Temporals 1-2 narrow.
Superior labials seven ; eye over the third and fourth, fiftli and sixth the longest ; geneials rather short, subequal.
Scales in seventeen longitudinal series, rather wide ; the first not materially larger.
Gastrosteges 137 ; anal 1 ; urosteges 32.
Total length, m. .305 (12.5 inches) ; of head .011 ; of tail .046.
Color light brown, with black triangular spots on each side of the middle line, the apices directed downward and extending lialf way to the gastrosteges.
The intervals between the apices are about four scales in length, and are centrally darker tlian immediately round the black spots.
The spots are sometimes connected b}' a black vitta on the median line, giving, when they alternate, the appearance of zigzag band.
Top of head dark brown ; lower surfaces and lips pale and unspotted.
The neural osseous plate is deeply longitudinally fissured, each half having a tubercularly rugose superior face.
The anterior border is notched, while the posterior is a little produced on each side of the groove.
Length of plate, m. .0018 ; width of plate, .0013.
From Nauta on the Peruvian Amazon ; two specimens obtained by Professor James Ortou during his last survey of that region.
PrDc.A.IT.^S 1874.
V \ 7 \ 1 Plate 1 / % H / iiS i 2 ( 3 /-' ^ ^wim, 8 ;;?^-D K^ 10 12 "15 13 i -.fe^' 16 17 18 , ^^ 19 GoTLrad on "new !Fosails of ths Pebas Group Platfe 11 oi ,) G I / W.&.B.Del.
I TO ''.. ' mia.Wi.
Plate III II 5b W.&,B.De1, Plate W w.es.Dei.
e. 7 ' V v^ J A J J i W( TG.B.M: JBjBnfioras Saisliailic-Etar.
Pr-e^fAc!
mR.W4Hate V*; W:G.B:(iel JZBviif oris Sons lift Bosk-c WGRrlel.
..teSc,Ma.l874.
PianeW ProcAc!
'hikA374PLste.IX. )
).
'X.
-i \ -J, \ -J JEBafforas Son^Tlfh*.
VocAc.Mal.S;-:l'hila.l8/-4 Di ,H-uT / ^^^ P '9 \"^' \ W.G.B.M I Sons liti^rstrr.
Plate X[ W.G-BDel.
'J Jl&SQrdsTicuB'Lim Bwstnr.
April 7.
Dr. Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
The Blue Gravel of California.
By E. Goldsmith Under the name of " Blue Gravel" the California gold miners, and especiall}^ the placer miners, understand a rock which underlies the goldbearing alluvium of that State and part of Nevada.
Specimens of this rock were shown to me by John C. Trautwine, C. E. It is stated that, whenever the goldbearing sand in many localities in the two above-named States has been removed by the wellknown washing process, the "blue gravel" appears.
It also contains gold, which cannot, however, be extracted by washing, the stream of water being unable to disintegrate the rock, which is a compact composite one, and not, as the name "gravel" would imply, a loose material.
This so-called "blue gravel" is composed of two ingredients widely differing in age, namely, of pebbles cemented together by a lava.
The pebbles are of all sizes.
In the specimens alluded to, they are ver3' smooth and rounded, and present no sharp edges or grooves.
Their color is externally brownish, with a slight yellow or olive green, but without the least trace of blue.
When a pebble is scraped or cut with a knife, the fresh exposed surface is bluish-gra3% The hardness is 4.
From the general appearance I infer that some of these pebbles were derived from the sedinffentary rock, slate, and others from Hornblende rock.
Entirely different in general aspect from the rounded pebbles is the other part of the rock, which I have already stated to be a lava.
This appears to envelop the pebbles completely.
When we detach a pebble from the enveloping mass, a perfect impression of the same is observed, having a beautiful lustre as if it had been freshl3^ oiled.
This oily lustre, indeed, characterizes the entire enveloping mass.
Some of the dull pebbles are as it were externally polished by a coating of the volcanic glass which has run over them.
The lustre of the freshly exposed surfaces is brilliant, but it sometimes loses its brilliancy and becomes dull with handling.
The color is dirty olive-green.
This lava is very brittle, so much so that the preparation of a thin plate for microscopical observation is impossible.
The hardness is equal to apatite.
The most distinguishing crystallization within the lava mass is a black mica, which is probably biotite.
I noticed also a few grains of quartz, as well as flattened grains of bright yellow gold.
These are all observable by the naked eye, and, with the pocket 6 lens, I could detect nothing more.
When small fragments of irregular form were placed under a more powerful magnifier, the black mica appeared smoky by a transmitted light, or green when in very thin platp.s, and most of the material seemed to be a green amorphous glass, having no effect on polarized light.
The specific gravity I found to be 2.48.
The silica I determined by an analysis to be 65.48 per cent.
We might presume that the amount of silica should be greater than that obtained, but we must keep in mind that the biotite present contains only about 40 per cent, of it, and thus reduces the proportion ; however, the quantity indicates that we must class this lava among the acidic ones.
The conclusion at which I arrive is that the so-called " blue gravel" of California is a conglomerate of pebbles of various kinds cemented together by an acidic lava in which crystals of mica (biotite) and grains of gold are imbedded.
How the gold came into the lava is a question of some difficulty.
Whether it was mingled with the pebbles before the lava ran over the bed, or whether the gold was ejected from the volcano, I am not able to decide.
It would require observations on a variety of specimens to arrive at some plausible theory.
The specimens I have seen had the gold suspended in the lava.
The metal did not touch the pebbles ; therefore, if the gold was present in the pebble bed prior to the ejection of the lava, this latter must have raised the metal from its bed, that is to say, a metal of s. g. 19.3 must have been raised by a semifluid mass having s. g. = 2.48 !
Of course my observations are limited on these questions, but since copper was ejected by the ancient volcano on Lake Superior, may not gold have been similarly ejected in the case before us ?
April 14.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-two members present.
Prof. Leidy called attention to the " Bulletin of the United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, Ko.
2," presented this evening.
It contains a "Review of the Vertebrata of the Cretaceous Period found west of the Mississippi River," by Prof.
Cope.
In this article he was quoted in such a way as not fairly to express his original meaning.
Thus, on page 7 of the Bulletin, reference is made to the Proceedings of this Academy, 1856, p. 312, in which it is intimated that Thespesius occidentalis was referred to the Mammalia, and regarded, perhaps, as a Dinosaurian.
In the Proceedings I have rather expressed the reverse, as I state of T. occidentalis, " among the collection of vertebrate remains, are two apparent caudal vertebrae and a first phalanx of some huge animal, which I suspect to be a I Dinosaurian, though they may have belonged to a mammalian."
I ma}' add that, on p. 8, Prof, Cope, quoting from the same Proceedings, p. 89, indicated that I had referred Ischyrotherium to a Sirenian.
This is so, but Prof.
Cope appears to have overlooked the more full account of the animal in the Trans, of the Am, Phil.
Soc, 1859, p. 151, in which, though I still refer it with doubt to the mammalia sirenia, I state that the remains may have belonged to an aquatic reptile.
In view of the reptilian character of Ischyrotherium, Prof. C. has changed the name to Ischyrosaurus, but his reason for doing so appears to me not to be valid, as classical authorities at times have included reptiles in the word therion, and it has been considered admissible as applied to the extinct Cheirotherium.
April 21.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
Note on the Enemies of Diffliigia.
Prof. Leidy remarked that in the relationship of Difflugia and Amcjeha we would suppose that the former had been evolved from the latter, and that its stone house would protect it from enemies to which the Amoeba would be most exposed.
The Difflugia had many enemies.
I have repeatedly observed an Amoeba with a swallowed Arcella, but never with a Difflugia.
Worms destroy many of the latter, and I have frequentl}' observed them within the intestine of Nais, Pristina, Chaetogaster, and ^olosoma.
I was surprised to find that Slentor polymorphus was also fond of Difflugia^ and I have frequently observed this animalcule containing them.
On one occasion I accidentally fixed a Stentor by pressing down the cover of an animalcule cage on a Difflugia.^ which it had swallowed.
The Stentor contracted, and suddenly elongated, and repeated these movements until it had split three-fourths the length of its body through, and had torn itself loose from the fastened Difflugia.
Nor did the Stentor suffer from this laceration of its body, for in the course of several hours each half became separated as a distinct individual.
Bemarks on a supposed Compound derived from Leather.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to a dark-red, compact, sliining, resinous-looking mass, several inches in thickness, which, he said, was reputed to have been derived from leather in the great fire of Chicago.
It now exhibits no evidence of organized structure, and its origin would not have been suspected from its appearance.
On burning it still gives out the peculiar odor of burning leather.
It was supposed to be a compound evolved from the leather, under the influence of high heat with absence of air.
April 28.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-one members present.
On Echinorhynchus moniliformis.
Dr. H. C. Chapman matle the following remarks: I take the opportunity of exhibiting specimens of the rare and interesting worm the Echinorhynchus moniliformis from the alimentary canal of the Fox Squirrel (Sciurus vulpinus) known to occur also in the Hamster and Field Mouse.
This species is so called from its resembling a row of pearls ; its posterior portion is, however, smooth.
The color of the worm is white.
The characteristic snout is armed with about a dozen rows of recurved hooks, which enables the worm to hold on to the animal which it infests.
This proboscis is retractile, being moved by delicate muscles.
The male is much smaller than the female, and can be readily distinguished by the sac at its posterior extremity, which serves as a receptacle for the penis.
In this species the testicles occupy only a small portion of the posterior part of tlie animal, while the ovaries, filled with eggs, extend through the entire length of the body.
The female in this species attains a length of eleven inches, the male only that of from four to five.
The Echinorhynchus is a member of the Acanthocephali or " Spiney Heads," a family of round worms.
There not being a quorum present for the transaction of business, the meeting adjourned until May 5, when the following were elected members: Reuben Haines, G. Schwartz, Galloway C. Morris, John N. Coles, M.D., U. S. Navy, Hugh Hamilton, M.D., and Charles P. Perot.
Don Antonio del Castillo, Don Mariano Barcena, and Don Jos^ Joaquin Arriaga, of Mexico, were elected correspondents.
May 5.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Thirty members present.
^ The following papers were presented for publication: "On the Habits of some American Species of Birds and other things Ornithological."
By Tlios.
G. Gentry. "
Description of two uew Fossil Shells from the Upper Amazon."
By T. A. Conrad.
Anali/sis of Graphite from Wythe County, Virginia.
By E. Goldsmith, Of all the varieties of Graphite that have come under my notice, I have never seen any resembling that which was given to me recently by Mr. John C. Trautwine, C. E. It is compact massive ; the touch is smooth.
If cut with a knife or scratched with the finger nail, it shows a bright dark metallic lustre.
The fracture is rough, uneven, dull.
The color is dark blue, so that the mineral greatl}^ resembles the massive earthy vivianite of New Jersey.
The powder has the same color.
Talc makes an impression on it, hence its softness is less than one.
Lines drawn with it on paper are of a dark gray hue, similar to common soft lead pencil marks.
Specific gravity = 2.1068.
The blowpipe reactions, as well as my qualitative analysis, showed that beside the carbon a large proportion of silica, alumina, and iron oxides, also a trace of manganese, were present.
The mineral contains a considerable amount of gas, the quantity and reactions of which I had not the means to ascertain.
The quantitative determinations of the amount of moisture and gases, the carbon, and ashes were found in the same manner as is usually adopted in the analysis of anthracite.
These were the results : Carbon 29.12.
Ashes 60.61.
Gases and moisture .
.
.
10.27.
Showing that the mineral may be regarded as a very impure graphite.
May 12.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-seven members present.
Notice of some New Fresh-water Rhizopoda.
Prof. Leidy remarked that besides the ordinary species of Amoeba, which he had observed in the vicinity of Philadelphia, he had discovered what he suspected to be a new generic form.
It has all the essential characters of Amoeba, but in addition is provided with tufts of tail-like appendages or rays, from which he proposed to name the genus Ouramceba.
The rays project from what maj' be regarded as the back part of the body as the animal always moves or progresses in advance of the position of those appendages.
The rays are quite different from pseudopods, or the delicate rays of the Actiuophryens.
The}^ are not used in securing food, nor is their function obvious.
The Ouramceba moves like an ordinary Amoeba, and obtains its food in the same manner.
The tail-like rays are not retractile, and they are rigid and coarse compared with those of Actinophr3'ens.
They are simple or unbranched, except at their origin, and they are C3diiKlrical, of uniform breadth, and less uniform length.
When torn from the body they are observed to originate from a common stock attached to a rounded eminence.
Several forms of the Ouramceba were observed, but it is uncertain whether they pertain to one or several species.
One of the forms had an oblong ovoid body about the |^th of a line long and y^jth of a line broad.
The tail-like rays formed half a dozen tufts, measuring in length about the width of the body.
The latter was so gorged with large diatomes, such as Navicula viridis, together with desmids and confervoe, that the existence of a nucleus could not be ascertained.
The species may be distinguished with the name of Ouramceba vorax.
A second form, perhaps of a different species, moved actively and extended its broad pseudopods like Amoeba, princeps.
Wli^n first viewed beneath the microscope it appeared irregularly globular and about the iV^'^ ^^ ^ ''" ^^^ diameter.
It elongated to the ^th of a line, and moved with its tail-like appendages in the rear.
These appendages formed five tufts about the ^V^^ ^^ ^ ^^" ^^ng.
The interior of the body exhibited a large contractile vesicle and a discoid nucleus.
This second form may be distinguished with the name of Ouramceba lapsa.
Another Ouramoeba had two comparatively short tufts of ra3'S, and a fourth, of smaller size than the others, had a single tuft of three moniliform rays.
It is possible that Ouramoeba is the same as the Plagiophrys of Claparede, though the description of this does not apply to that.
Plagiophrys is said to be an Actinophryen, furnished with a bundle of rays emanating from a single point of the body, but the rays are described as of the same kind and use as those of Actinophrys.
Plagiophrys is further stated to be provided with a distinct tegument like Gorycia of Dujardin, or Pamphagus of Baile}'^, but the body of Ouramceba is as free from any investment as an ordinary Amceba, and the rays are fixed tail-like appendages with no power of elongation or contraction.
The species of Ouramoeba were found among desmids and diatomes, on the surHice of the mud at the bottom of a pond, near Darby Creek, on the Philadelphia and West Cliester Railroad.
Two of the commonest species of Difflugia of our neighborhood I had until recently confounded together as D. proleiformis, and, perhaps, the two forms \x\a.y be included inider the latter name in Europe.
In one the mouth is deeply trilobed, and the animal is usually green with chlorophyl globules.
In the other the mouth is crenulate, usually with six shallow crenulations, and the animal is devoid of chlorophyl.
The former is usually the smaller, and may be distinguished with the name of D. lobostoma ; the latter may be named D. crenulata.
In an old brick pond, on the grounds of Swarthraore College, Delaware County, among Difflugia pyriformis, D. spiralis, D. corona, D. acuminata, and others not yet determined, there occurs an abundance of a large species, apparently undescribed.
It is sometimes the fourth of a line in length, and is compi'essed pyriform, but is quite variable in its relation of length to breadth, and in the shape of the fundus of the shell.
This is often trilobate, but from the non-production of one or more or all the lobes, differs in appearance in different individuals.
The animal is filled with chlorophyl grains, from which it might be named D. entochloris.
Another large Difflugia, allied to D. lageniformis, is not unfrequent about Philadelphia.
The shell is beautifully vase-like in shape.
It has an oval or sub-spherical body with a constricted neck, and a recurved lip to the mouth.
The body of the shell opposite the mouth is acute and often acuminate.
The animal contains no chlorophj'l.
One shell measured gof a line long by I" of a line broad; another measured ;^ of a line long by ^ of a line broad.
The species may be named D. amphora.
A DifHugian, found in a spring on Darby Creek, is interesting, from its transparency, whicli allows the structure of the animal to be seen in all its details.
The investment is membranous and apparently structureless.
The soft granular contents occupy about one-half of the investment, and are connected with this by long threads.
The pseudopods are protruded in finger-like pi'ocesses.
The form of the animal is compressed ovoid, with the narrow pole truncate and forming the transversely oval mouth.
It is probably the species Difflugia /^g'a^a, described by Mr. Tatem, of England.
Its length is about ^'^d of a line.
The character of the investment is so different from that of ordinary Difflugians that the species may be regarded as pertaining to another genus, for which the name of Catharia would be appropriate.
Dr. Chapman made the following remarks on the generative apparatus of the Tebennophorus Garolinensis : Various have been the interpretations offered from time to time of the generative organs of the Gasteropoda.
Thus Cuvier considered what is now regarded as an hermaphroditic organ to be the ovary.
Later observers regarded this hermaphroditic organ as the testicle, and considered what is now supposed to be an albuminous gland the ovary, and which Cuvier regarded as part of the testicle.
With reference to these views, I have recently dissected the Tebennophorus Carolinensis, a slug found often in our environs under trees, etc., and found both ova and spermatozoa in the organ regarded first as simply the ovary, later as the testicle.
I take the opportunit}'' of acknowledging the assistance afforded me in m^"^ dissection by Dr. Leidy's beautiful monograph on the Gasteropoda.
May 19.
Dr. Kenderdine in the chair.
Twenty-five members present.
The Veins of Beech and Hornbean Leaves.
Mr. Thomas MeeHAN said that De Candolle had noticed some years since a difference in the venation between the Fagus ferruginea and Fagus sylvatico., the common American and European beeches.
In the American beech the lateral veins were said to terminate in the apex of the serratures in the European they terminate at the base of the sinus.
He had not read the original paper of De Candolle, but abstracts in the scientific serials.
As the statement stood, it conveyed the idea that there was a marked difference in structure between these two allied species which did not, however, exist, as groM'ing in this countr}'^ the leaves of the European beecli are almost entire ; the lateral veins, in approaching the margin of the leaves, curve upwards, and connect with the lateral above tliem, forming a sort of marginal vein near the outer edge of the leaf.
The veins of the American beech curve upward in the same way, biTt are early arrested, and this sudden cessation of growth produces the serra, which are slightly curved upwards.
An early arrestation of growth in the veins makes the serratures, and constitutes the onl}^ difference between the two species.
The structural plan is the same in both the European, curving its lateral vein into the apex, reached the upper one the American terminating abruptly.
There was a greater tendency to marginal development in some European than in allied American species.
In the Garpinus Betulus, the English Hornbean, there were from four to five teeth between each pair of lateral nerves, while there were but from two to three between those of the American Garpinus Americana a character that was quite as distinctive between these two very closely allied species, as the viens were in the case of the beech.
Direct Growth Force.
Mr, Meehan referred to some potatoes exhibited by him to the Academy a few years ago, in which the stolons of a grass had penetrated througli from one side to the other, preferring, as it would seem, to go through such an obstruction to turning aside to avoid it.
A potato was a rather rough surfaced body.
He now exhibited a similar case, only the obstruction was the round smooth root of an herbaceous peony.
Though not more than one-third of an inch thick and round, a stolon of TrUicum repens, the common couch grass, had pushed itself through.
May 26.
The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair.
Twenty-three members present.
Thos.
Hockley, Wm.
A. Stokes, John Shallcross, Alfred G. Reed, M.D., Richard J. Dunglison, M.D., Louis A. Godey, and J. E. Kingsley were elected members.
On report of the Committee to which it had been referred, the following paper was ordered to be published.
