OBSERVATIONS ON THE HABITS OF THE NEUTERS OF FORMICA SANGUINEA.
BY THOMAS G. GENTRY.
A few days ago while engaged in the collection of Coleopteva underneath stones and decayed logs ray attention was attracted by a nest of Formica sanguinea.
Scattered over the ground to receive the warmth of the sun were numberless larvae of the ant in diverse stages of development.
Some had apparently just escaped from the ova while others were nearly ready to pass into the condition of pupa.
Two external apertures of the nest were all that could be discerned leading to chambers below.
Many neuters working ants were observed performing the duties of nurses to the offspring.
On close examination they appeared to be divided into two classes  one having the exclusive charge of the almost mature larvai the other the care of the more feeble.
As is customary with ants in an invasion of their territories the larvjB were removed to places of security.
Tlie larger grubs were conveyed to a separate apartment b' workers whose special duty it seemed to be  while the less vigorous were taken possession of by another set and hidden away in another chamber of the habitation.
After the last individual of the former had been cared for I expected to see the first set come out and assist in the removal of their more tender offspring that were still l'ing profusel about.
But I was disappointed.
AVith a view to test my observations I dropped several of these last into the mouth of the first passageway tliinking that possibly the sight of these would stimulate them to further exertions.
But all my attempts to draw them out were in vain.
These larvse remained wiiere I had placed them until their own properly constituted nurses observed them when they were immediately seized and carried to appropriate quarters.
After the tumult had subsided I opened the liorizontal channel that led to the first chamber.
It was about two inches in length and half an inch beneath the surface.
Here packed awa'' in a commodious chamber were a score or more of ants each with the object of its solicitude by its side.
Alarmed still more by this second intrusion each seized a larva studiously avoiding the entrance to the main chamber and hurried it away to places of security among the adjoining leaves and grasses.
I am confident that the main nest was shunned as the parties passed within an eighth of an inch of it and could readily have entered had there been any such intention.
The conclusions I have to draw from these facts are the following 1st.
The colony is divided into two sets of neuters one whose care it is to provide for the wants and security of the abler and more mature the other to look after the more helpless.
2d.
That the more vigorous are necessarily confined to superficial cavities since they need less care and attention and in order to avoid the time and trouble of constant removals in consequence of the varied conditions of weather and surrounding circumstances to which they are subjected said removals seeming to be impracticable in view of the weight and size of the fullygrown larvse.
3d.
That the young and tender are conveyed to deeperseated chambers less likel to be assailed b an enemy thus afibrding a better means of continuing the species.
July 1.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
Sex in Rhus cotinus.
Mr. Thomas Meehan said JRhus cotinus the common mist tree was described as having perfect flowers.
In a large quantity of seedlings growing on his grounds he found thej' were dia3cious.
There was not much novelty in this as it was now generally conceded that most if not all plants called b' old botanists polygamous were practically dicecioiis for what appeared to be perfect flowers had either the male or female flowers entirely inoperative.
But in this case the distinction had a practical value to ornamental planters for he had found that except in very rare instances onl' the female plants produced the hairy pedicles known as mist.
Occasionally a male panicle of extra viabilit' would produce a few short hairs.
In general the panicle of male flowers died.awajas soon as the flowers faded.
This fact also illustrated his A'iew of the relative viability of the sexes.
One might say of this as has been said of other illustrations that of course things die when their work is done.
The male having nothing more to do does not need so much vitalit' as the female which has to live on as it has much more woric to do.
But this reasoning he thought favors his own views and seems so unanswerable that it ought years ago to have suggested to some mind the true law of vitalit' in its relation to sex as it had done to his own.
It was enough for him that his facts were selfevident that there was not as much force spent on the production of male as of female flowers.
In the production of seed in Rhus cotinus he also noted that often two cai'pels were fully developed and in some few cases three thus forming a threecelled capsule.
July 8.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Seventeen members present.
Mr. Gentry made the following remarks  In some genera of Composite plants with ligulate ray and tulnilar disk florets the discoid t3pc has been occasionally observed in abnormal developments.
A case of the kind came under ninotice recently while examining a plant of Rudbeckia hirta in which the ray florets were all tubular.
The structure of eacli corolla was found to be identical with those of the disk differing immaterially in size and color.
Fully onehalf of these irregular forms were perfect and fertile whilst the opposite condition of affairs prevails in the normal flower.
On the same day in which the preceding observations were made I noticed other plants of the same species in which the disk florets had grown to twice the usual magnitude and had dbfied their natural f hade of brown for the beautiful golden hue so eminently characteristic of the outer circle of florets.
Here the essential organs of reproduction had in a measure aborted.
Upon the principle that excess of growth force has transformed the sterile ray into fertile florets and the same deficienc' has been instrumental in reducing the fertile disk florets alluded to to a partial state of abortion a principle so ably maintained in the writings of Mr. Thomas Meehan the foregoing facts receive a clear and comprehensive solution.
Subsequently I was so fortunate as to find three specimens of fully developed flowers growing upon the same plant in each of which there was a double series of ray florets having the regular number of florets in each series.
These were without exception ligulate and neutral.
These secondary series I think are the result of the want of vigor necessary to develop fertile florets.
July 15.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twelve members present.
July 22.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eight members present.
The following paper was presented for publication  Descriptions of New Species of Shells from the West Coast of Florida.
By R. E. C. Stearns.
The death of John Warner was announced.
July 27.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eight members present.
On report of the Committee the following papers were ordered to be published 
