ON THE COMMON BROWN BATS OF PENINSULAR FLORIDA AND SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
BY S. N. RHOADS, Exaraiuatiou of a series of skins and skulls and alcoholic specimens of the Florida Brown Bat, in the author's collection and in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, shows constant racial diflferences from typical Eptesieus ftiscus of Philadelphia county.
These difierences are similar and in the same degree and direction as those separating the two forms of Red Bat inhabiting the regions named.
The Florida race may be distinguished as follows: Eptesieus fuscus osceola subsp.
nova.
Type No.
875, ad.
d^, in Coll.
of S. N. Rhoads.
Taken April 29, 1892, at Tarpon Springs, Fla., by W. S. Dickinson, Description.
— Similar in size and cranial characters to fusciis ; colors deeper and darker, being of slightly varying shades of cinnamon brown as contrasted with the bistre and sepia of fuscus.
This character is uniform in a series of eight dry skins which have never been immersed in a liquid preservative, and is peculiar to them in a comparison with a similar series of fifteen topotypes of fuscus.
Measuretnents of type, made by collector from fresh specimen : Total length 101 mm, ; tail 38 mm.
; hind foot 9^ mm.
Average measurements of four topotypes, 113-44-10,6.
The skull of type indicates it to be an old adult, quite as large as adult skulls of fuscus, but the measurements given by the collector are less than a normal average.
This average corresponds -closely with that of ten specimens ot fuscus from Sing Sing, N. Y., as given in Miller's monograph of North American Vespertilionidce.
Whether this subspecies is found outside the limits of peninsular Florida I am unable to state.
As Miller classes the Eptesieus from Alabama, Georgia and Mississippi examined by him under fuscus, I conclude that T^.
caroliniensis of Geoffrey cannot apply to the Florida race.
In Miller's monograph, above cited, all the California Eptesicus examined by him are classed under fuscuf<.
A specimen in the author's collection from the San Bernardino Valley, near San Bernardino, indicates a phase of coloration separating it from typical fuseas, in a manner such as might be reasonably predicted by any one having a knowledge of the climatic effect of this locality upon other mammals thus living on the outskirts of the Mojave Desert region.
It is quite probable that Mr. Ilerron collected this specimen on his ranch, a few miles west of San Bei*nardino, or in one of his eastern trips into the edge of the desert.
The exact locality is not stated on the label.
The specimen may be thus characterized : Eptesicus fuscus bernardiniis subsp.
nova.
Type No.
1,247, ad.
d".
Coll.
of S. N. Khoads.
Taken by R. B. Herron, May 26, 1893, in the "San Bernardino Valley" (near San Bernardino), Cal.
Description.
— Size and cranial characters as in Eptesicus fuscus typicus.
Color.
— Pallid bistre above, brownish drab below; the hairs below being unicolor nearly to their roots, and those above darkening slightly only in the basilar fourth of their length.
In fuscn^s the upper body hairs are darkly sooty for more than half their basilar length, the brown tips not concealing the dark under-fur.
Wing membranes and ears in bernardinus very darkMeasurements of type: Total length 114 mm,; tail 51 mm.
; •hind foot ?
; alar extent 304 mm.
These measurements were made by the collector before skinning the s])ecimen.
A series of four specimens from the same collector taken in the "San Bernardino Mts."
in September, 1893, shows that the mountain form is inseparable from fuscus ; one of these, however, is a perfect intergrade.
Bernardinus differs from peninsular, O. Thomas, from southern Lower California, in its large size ; penin-sulce appearing to be a distinct species.
