ON TWO NEW SPECIES OF STARFISHES.
BY J. E. IVES.
While engaged in reviewing the starfishes in the collection of the Academy I found two forms belonging to the genera Pteraster and Coronaster which do not appear to have been described.
They may be thus characterized Pteraster tesselatus n. sp.
 Dorsal surface very convex  arms tapering at their aboral ends and much recurved.
Rupradorsal membrane regularly reticulated  reticulation forming obliquely arranged hexagonal areas which are very apparent upon the sides of the arms.
No spicules found in the supradorsal membrane.
Paxillse about 2 mm.
high.
Each paxilla surmounted by eight radiating spinelets enclosing a number of .smaller ones.
The spinelets when examined under the microscope are found to be composed of two or more connected manysided hollow cylinders the sides of which are perforated by elongated apertures as shown in the figure representing a portion of a cylinder highly magnified.
The distal ends of the spinelets are inserted into the delicate membranous bands which form the reticulation of the supradorsal membrane.
Some of the spinelets perforate this membrane in the centres of the hexagonal areas projecting slightly on the surface.
On the dorsal surface of the disk and arms especially in the hollows of the interradial portions of the disk and of the recurved arm there are numerous minute folds of the integument that produce a somewhat granulate appearance of the membrane.
There are 2530 spiracula in each hexagonal area.
The oscular orifice is surrounded by a number of webbed spinelets.
On the ventral surfiice the actinolateral spines are short about 70 on each side of the ambulacra
furrow.
There are a corresponding number of ambulacral combs.
At the base of the arm each comb has 6 spines  the three outer spines are the longest and about equal  the fourth counting from the outside rather smaller the fifth very small and the rudimentary sixth spine very minute and directed towards the aboral end of the arm.
The number of spines in a comb decreases towards the end of the arm.
The ambulacral feet are in two rows 8090 feet in each ray.
There are twelve spines at each angle of the mouth forming a single web.
The four central spines are the longest the first pair of spines on the outside of these rather smaller the next half the size of the last pair and the two outermost pairs very short.
Two large well developed secondary mouthspines in each interradial angle.
Greatest diameter of specimen from tip of one arm to tip of an opposite arm 100 mm.
 proportion of radius of disk to radius of arm as 1 to 2  height of disk 35 mm.
A single specimen  color in alcohol dull yellowish grey.
This species differs from Pter aster pulv ill us Sars to which it appears to be closely allied by its longer arms the absence of large conical papilltTe upon the supradorsal membrane  its greater size being about half as large again the relatively much greater number of ambulacral combs and actinolateral spines and the different size and number of tlie spines of the ambulacral combs.
It also appears to be closely allied to PL semireticulatus Sladen but may be distinguished from it by the prominent central spinelets of the paxillaj which perforate the supradorsal membrane the greater number and difference in size of the spiracula  the absence of any tendency towards a quadruple arrangement of the ambulacral feet  the greater number of ambulacral and mouth spines and in its greater size being about oi times as large as Pt.
semireticulatus.
It differs altogether from Pteraster aporus described by Dr. H. Ludwig from Behring Sea  Pt.
aporus having no oscular orifice.
Pt.
aporus appears to be the only species of Pteraster that has hitherto been described from that region.
Below I give a list of the species of Pteraster that have been described up to the resent time.
P. militaris 0.
F. Miiller.
Zool.
Dan.
Prodr.
p. 234 Muller and Troschel System der Asteriden p. 44 128 pi.
VI fig.
1  Sars Oversigt af Norges Echinodermer .
48 Tab.
iv v vi fig.
113.
P. militaris O. F. Miiller var.
prolata Sladen.
Trans Roy.
Soc.
Ediub.
xxxii p 153.
P. puvillus Sars.
Oversigt af Norges Echinodermer p. 62 Tab.
vi figs.
1418 Tab.
vii viii ix figs.
16.
P. multipes Sars.
Vidensk.
Selskabs.
Forliaudlinger 1865 p. 200 Fauna litloralis Norvegiae p. 55.
Tab.
viii figs.
117.
P. Dance Verrill.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist.
vol.
xii p. 386  Trans.
Conn. Acad.
vol.
i p. 568 pi.
IX figs.
11 11a.
P. affinis E. A. Smith.
Ann.
Nat.
Hist.
4 vol.
xvii p. 108.
P. rugatus Sladen.
Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
vol.
xvi p. 195.
P. stellifer Sladen.
Journ Linn.
Soc.
vol.
xvi p. 195.
JR. semireticulatus Sladen.
Journ.
Linn Soc.
vol.
xvi p. 195.
P. carlbbceus Perrier.
Comptes Rendus xcii p. 59  Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
ix p. 13  Nouv.
Arch.
Mus.
2 vi p. 216.
P. ajwrus Ludwig.
Zoologische Jahrbiicher 1886 p. 293.
Coronaster bispinosus n. sp.
Twelve long slender arms.
.
Dorsal skeleton of disk reticulated  formed of imbricated ossicles and enclosing irregularly shajied meshes in which are found from four to ten respiratory tubes.
Distributed irregularly on the skeleton of the disk are short spines each bearing a little cluster of crossed pedieellarise.
Madreporic plate small and submarginal.
Dorsal skeleton of arms reticulated  Reticulation formed by five longi'tudinal bands of imbricated ossicles connected at about every fourth plate by similar transverse bands forming large rectangular meshes.
Meshes longest in the direction of the arms containing a large number of tentacular papillse.
Sometimes closer and irregular in shape at the base of the arms.
At the junction of the longitudinal and transverse bands stand long pointed spines each spine surrounded about its middle by a closely packed cluster of crossed pedieellarise.
Each of the adambulacral plates carries an inner and outer spine the outer spine being slightly more adoral than the inner one thus showing a tendency of the two spines to alternate.
Length fzom centre of disk to end of arm 140m radius of disk 12m.
Color of the single specimen in alcohol pale flesh color with the skeletal portions white.
This form undoubtedly belongs to the genus Coroia5fer of Perrier Echinodermes du Travailleur et du Talisman Annates des Sciences Naturelles VI
Serie T. XIX No.
8 1885.
He gives however as a character of the genus the existence of a single spine on each adambulacral plate wdiereas in Coronaster bispinosus there are two such spines to each plate.
This character of the genus must therefore be modified in order to admit this species.
The form described differs from Coronaster Parjaiti Perrier the only other species of the genus principally by the character above mentioned viz the existence of two spines on each adambulacral plate.
It also differs by its greater size the radius of the disk being twice as great and the arms from the centre of the disk to their tips three times as long.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
425December 11.
The President Dr.
Jog.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentythree persons jresent.
A paper entitled Description of a New Species of Orithopristis ffom the Galapagos Islands.
By David S. Jordan and Burt Fesler was presented for publication.
Double Cocooning in a Spider.
 Dr. Henry C. McCook remarked that spiders may be divided into two groujS in relation to their cocooning habit.
The individuals of one grou habitually spin several cocoons.
Those of the other group habitually spin but one.
The latter however are subject to some variation the reasons for which have not been satisfactorily explained.
Epeira diademata for example habitually spins but one cocoon and yet the Spanish investigator Termeyer in the early part of this century discovered and announced that she would spin as many as six cocoons when specially nourished.
The fact struck the speaker as an extraordinary one and he had never yet quite obtained consent to fully admit it.
There are some facts however which have recently been uncovered that show a tendency to a variation of habit in tliis line in one of our familiar orbweavers.
Several years ago a clerical friend the Rev.
Dr. P. L. Jones had brought him two cocoons of Argiope cophinarla  Walck.
' Avhich had been spun on his premises by the same spider.
The fact seemed to him strange and interesting and he reported it.
About a year ago Mrs. Mary Treat brought to Dr. IcCook's notice the fact that she had discovered what appeared to be a variety of Argiope cophinaria which makes four cocoons and which she had accordingly named Argiope imdtichoncha. She sent him a string of these cocoons of which there were four of the usual shape and about the usual size strung within a few inches of each other.
They wei'e spun on the wall of a kitchen in a house in western Missouri.
Mrs.
Treat also sent the spider which spun the cocoons.
The specimen was very much dried up and in such a condition that the speaker could not make a very satisflictory study of it but he found nothing in it differing in the least degree from Argiope cophinaria.
If it be the same species what are the peculiar circumstances that have caused such a remarkable variation in the habit
or is it true that this species does more frequently than has been supposed indulge herself in the luxury of an additional eggsac 
Two cocoons of this lot were opened and found to contain young spiders that had hatched but died within the eggsac probably 1 See Walckenaer's Apteres Vol.
I p. 152.
 Arg.
riiaiiti Hentz.
3 American Naturalist December 1S87 p. 1122. because of their unnatural condition.
The spiderlings were not counted but they were very numerous.
Througli information kindly given by Dr. Leidy the President of the Academy Dr. McCook was permitted to study on the olst October last 1888 an example of this duplex cocoonery which occurred in the Farmer's Market of Philadelphia.
He visited the market house at 12th and Market Streets which is one of the largest and best of its sort in our city.
He had no difficulty in finding the cocoons which had been preserved and made a study of them which is here submitted.
The facts are as follows  Some time during the .summer of the present year Mr. Charles Moore observed upon his meat stall a spider whose beauty attracted his attention and which proved to he a female of Argiope cophiiiaria.
She had probably been brought into the market from the country hidden among the leaves of some vegetable as the huge Tarantula and the large Laterigrade spider Ileterapoda vemitoria are brought to our port from the West Indies in bunches of banannas and other fruits.
However she may have floated in as a young balloonist from some city garden for the species is very abundant in open grounds within city limits.
Instead of brushing her down and killing her after the usual manner of dealing with such creatures Mr. jMoore took a fancy to preserve lier and would allow no one around his stall to inflict any injury upon her.
Her movements were necessarily somewhat impeded and modified by the business of the place and several times she changed her web until at last she spun it in a position that was practically free from interruption.
This was quite at the top of the stall the main foundation line two feet long was stretched from a standard beam to the end of a projecting iron hookrod.
The spider became quite a favorite and those around the stall amused themselves by feeding her with flies.
She would take the flies thrown into her web coming down from her habitual perch against the central white shield which characterizes her snare to get them.
Sometime between the 10th and 20th of August she began to make her first cocoon.
jNIr.
INIoore of course made no careful study of the process but he said that it was spun early in the morning that at irst the spinning work thrown out was as white as snow that the spider then began to wrap it up and it grew smaller and smaller as .she wrapped rolling it around with her feet.
After the white material had been sun a brownish silk was used and when the spider had completed her task the ball was not more than half as big as it seemed to him at first.
About a week or ten days thereafter she made a second cocoon placing it in a position 15 inches above the other.
Both of the cocoons were in site precisely as left by the .spider.
The web however had been destroyed but the speaker noticed that an irregular mass of spinning work was laid along the beam between the two cocoons which after a little observation proved to be the last snare which the spider had made in a collapsed condition.
The foundation line had been broken and the web had thus shrunken up against the post.
By delicate and careful mauipulatioii he was able to draw out this mass and was delighted to find that he could restore with very little damage the spider's orb the central shield and zigzag ribbons being quite intact.
The cocoons were both of them spun within tents of crossed lines five or six inches long and four or five wide and had a thickness of between two and three inches.
The lines constituting the under edges ot the tents were attached to the post of the stall on which the web was spun.
The lower cocoon which was spun first had the top lines of the surrounding tent stayed against an iron bar used to support meat hooks.
The upper tent has its roof lines sustained and drawn out from the post by the foundation line of the orb.
The lines of which these tents were spun were of a greenish yellow silk similar to that which the spider uses in preparing the cocoon.
He took the cocoons home and dissected them.
The lower one was one and onefourth inches long seveneighths inch wide was composed of a soft yellow silken plush and inside was constructed precisely like the ordinary eggsac of this species.
It contained 120 eggs all of tliem sterile.
The only peculiarity in the cocoon was that the stem which one usually finds at the top was missing.
The second cocoon was not quite so large one inch long and fiveeighths inch wide but it was more perfect in shape containing the usual stem.
The eggs within this cocoon were also sterile and the number did not exceed 50.
As he had on several occasions counted over a thousand eggs in the cocoon of this species it will be seen that the spider was not in a normal condition.
Indeed he had concieved the idea that in most cases where this spider spins more than one cocoon it will be found that the eggs are not fertile and that on the contrary when the eggs are in the normal condition but one cocoon will be made.
We may probably account for the making of the second cocoon by some abnormal condition of the ovaries which prevented the ovipositing of all the eggs at once.
The first lot when extruded were protected in the usual way subsequently Nature compelled the mother to get rid of the remaining eggs and moved by the same impulse that caused her to cover the first lot she was excited to overspin the second also.
Tliis species will make an imperfect or but part of a cocoon in confinement and Dr. McCook exhibited a specimen which shows that she sometimes does likewise in natural site.
This is a branch which in one place shows the beginning of a cocoon being the little cup against which the eggs are always spun and also what appears to be the inner eggbag.
There is nothing more and the whole is stayed and shut in by the usual tentlike spinning work.
Near by is a perfect cocoon secured in quite the same manner.
If we suppose that those two were made by the same spider as is highly probable we may infer that the original cocooning purpose of the mother was diverted in some manner perhaps by alarm w'hich drove her from the spot.
She returned to enclose the work partially done but moved by the urgency of motherhood presently found a neighboring site and finished her maternal duty.
Ihe Value of Abbofs fauuscript Drawings of American Spiders.
 Dr. Henry C. McCook reviewed some recent criticisms upon a commuiiicatiou presented by him to this Academy.
He spoke as follows In the last number of Psyche   Mr. J. H. Emerton prints a criticism upon my paper in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia based upon the recent discovery of Mr. John Abbot's drawings of American spiders.
This criticism requires some comment.
1.
Mr. Emerton intimates doubt of what he calls my offhand identifications.
I spent between one and two hours in the Zoological Library of the British Museum aided by the courteous officials.
I confined my attention almost wholly to the one tribe with which I am most familiar the Orbweavers.
Of those I published in my paper twenty one 21 numbers embracing seventeen species.
Mr. Emerton says In 1875 I looked over these same drawings at the British Museum I like Mr. McCook made hasty identifications of such few of them as I could.
It might have been true thirteen years ago that Mr. Emerton was unable to determine accurately that number of common species within the time whicli I gave to them but I do not hesitate to say that he could not plead such inability now after his study and publication of the New England Epeiridse.
At least I should have small upiiiion of my own attainments if I could not identify offhand from the admirabje drawings of John Abbot such familiar species as most of those named in my list.
I think that any entomologist familiar with jIr.
Abbot's work who will substitute for spiders seventeen species of insects with which he is most familiar will quite agree with me that such determination is not one of great difficulty.
2.
Mr. Emerton does scant justice to inv paper by leaving tlie impression that its conclusions arc based wholly upon the ofi'liand identifications of an hour or two.
On the contrary that was a small part of my work.
I took carefully the numbers of Abbot's drawings with his notes thereon as well as my own notes upon the same made on the spot.
After my return home I diligently compared these with Walckenaer's number and satisfied myself tliat the two exactly corresponded.
I then went over WalckcMiaor's descriptions in the original French'' and conared them with the species themselves in my collection verifying thus my first identification.
This occupied the leisure hours of several months and the indications and in part results of all this work may be seen in my paer where I give the evidence and references by which the student can test my work if he will take the pains to do so.
3 Mr. Emerton institutes a comparison between my published list and a few numbers identified by him from which he derives a 1 Psyche the organ of the Cambridge Entomological Club Vol 5 No.
149150 Sept. Oct. 1888.
 1888 pp.
l6Necessity for Revising the Nomenclature of American Spiders.
s Histoire Nalurelle des Insectes Apteres Vol.
II.
moral as to the uncertainty of ofFhand identifications of these drawings by two persons both familiar with the common spiders of the Zorthern States.
But the inference is wholly deceptive for the basis of his comparison is entirely faulty and unfair.
He published a list of thirteen 13 numbers noted by him as identified thirteen years ago when he visited the British Museum.
Of these four numbers are of other species than Orbweavers  two other numbers are Orbweavers which I did not notice or did not list.
Emerton includes all these in his estimate but it is manifest that any comparison in order to yield just results should throw out these six numbers not listed or considered by me and should be confined wholly to the seven numbers which both of us attempted to identify.
Such a comparison justifies a conclusion quite the reverse of Mr. Emerton's.
We agree as to the following Nos.
121 116 117 79 and 80  five out of the seven.
How stands it as to the remaining two numbers one species 77 and 78
Mr. Emerton marks them with a generic name  Uloborus.
I list them as ' Cyrtophora caudata Hentz  but in a secondary place and in a footnote express my uncertainty as to the identification and think they may prove to be my own species C. bifurca.
Concerning the only species embraced in these two numbers about which we differ I express my uncertainty and Emerton merely gives a generic name showing his uncertainty as to the species.
In other words we are both more or less uncertain and thus we agree in that respect also.
I submit therefore that instead pf justifying Mr. Emerton's inference of uncertainty and thus casting cloubt upon my identifications the contrary is shown for we actually agree in one way or another on every number concerning which both give an opinion.
In other words we absolutely agree concerning fivesevenths of the numbers mutually identified and agree to be uncertain concerning the other twosevenths.
As to which list is nearer the truth in the one uncertain fiictor I do not venture to decide.
Turning to the original description of Walckenaer one finds that he is left in doubt and the doubt can perhas not be removed.
Walckenaer makes one of the numbers a variety of the other.
If we read the description of the animal itself INIr.
Emerton's identification as Uloborus is well justified but when we turn to Abbot's account of the habits of the spider we find that they differ entirely from all we know of Uloborus and correspond exactly with the peculiar habits of Cyclosa caudata especially the habit of covering the central diameter of its vertical net with pellets of silk mixed with insect detritus.
Uloborus spins a horizontal snare has many ribboned decorations as caudata frequently has but never has been observed so far as I know to decorate her orb with insect scalpage.
1 Op.
cit. p. 144.
4.
Mr. Emerton's conclusion concerning the questions raised by raypaper is that we should wait until all the common spiders of America are described before attempting to determine priority of names.
This seems to me very curious reasoning.
Emerton has described and figured all but two of the spiders contained in my list of Abbot's drawings.
Does lie intend us to count his work as worthless for comparative service
I think better of it than that.
With his New England Epeiridte and Hentz's Spiders of the United States in my hand I have no doubt at all of my ability to determine positively therefrom the ultimate names of many species by comparingthe same with Walckenaer's descriptions and Abbot's drawings.
What we need chiefly is a facsimile copy of the latter somewhere in America but in lieu of that that some one should take up the matter in London with a good collection of American spiders.
Meanwhile no naturalist ought to doubt that it is our duty to recognize the Walckenaer species which we know by whatever means to be identical with descriptions made by Hentz repeated by Emerton and others and now thoroughly familiar and recognizable.
As to the doubtful species there can of course be no question that they had better remain as named by Hentz and more fully described by others.
AValckenaer's descriptions are undoubtedly incomplete and some are positively lad but they are no worse in this respect than many of Hentz's and in my opinion are just as readily identified ly the aid of Abbot's diawings as are Hentz's descriptions by the aid of his own drawings.
At this point I may submit the opinion of one who stands at the very head of living araneologists Professor T. Thorell who thus writes me from Italy in a letter dated April 7th 1888 The discovery of Abbot's drawings of American spiders is indeed a fact of the greatest interest not only to American but to all arachnologists and I congratulate you upon having had the luck to make this discoverv.
Of course I have read with great attention what you have said on the subject As to me I do not entertain the least doubt that you and Professors Leidy Lewis and Dall are right and that the earlier names should in all cases be adopted.
The law of priority must be respected and is the only one that prevents arbitrariness and that gives stability to nomenclature.
I think then that in all such cases in which Walckenaer's species can with tolerable certainty be recognized his names should be preferred to names more lately published even if these names are more commonly used or the species better described or figured under these newer names.
The weight of this distinguished authority can not be questioned and I place it in the scale against the judgment of Mr. Emerton.
I venture to add from the same letter the following sentence with the earnest expression of hope that the suggestion therein may be realized Would it not be possible to have Abbot's work published 
There are in America so many Avealthy citizens who are willing to make sacrifices for scientific purposes and in this case an appeal to the national feeling of your countrymen would not I think be out of place.
Over against such an expression as this I am willing to place my critic's words 'Mr.
INIcCook is inclined however to set too high a value on these drawings.
0.
Finally I think I may say under all the circumstances that I am excusable for believing that my so called discovery of Abbot's drawings was a genuine novelty.
I cannot remember a single allusion in any araneological literature to the existence in theBritish Museum or elsewhere of those drawings.
The last reference made to them of which I have knowledge was Dr. L. M. Underwood's paper on the Progress of Arachuology in America in the American Xaturalist of November 1887.
The author alludes to Abbot's manusci'ipts miscalling him Thomas by the way instead of John andadds.
Knowledge of the date of preparation of this series of drawings as well as its present place and condition is wanting.
But it was in London as early as 1802 and was purchased by Baron Walekenaer in 1821.
Mr. Emerton in his several admirable monographs makes no reference to the fact that he knew of theexistence of the drawings and does not make the slightest attempt to compare the list in his possession with the descriptions of Walekenaer.
This seems to me all the more remarkable in view of the tact as above sliown that he had accurately determined some of Hentz's species as identical with some of Abbot's numbers and could readily have made the further step of determining their correspondence witli Walckenaer's descriptions.
His reasons for this reserve are doubtless satisfactory to himself and I will iiot venture to criticize tljcin Init will say that I am quite satisfied with having taken the opposite course and given to the world at the earliest available opportunity the information which had accidentally been placed in my possession and which I believed at the time to be new and valuable.
That it was new to most students of spiders has been made very certain by the responses to my paper.
That it is valuable may in some minds admit of doubt but on the whole I think that I have shown here if not before that the measure of doubt is very small.
Food of Barnacles.
 Prof Lfidy stated that last summer in June while walking on shore at Beach Haven N. J. he picked up a bunch of Goosebarnacles Lepas faselcularis attached to a fragment of a grass stem Spartina.
Finding at the time nothing else of interest he examined the specimens not having previously dissected a Barnacle since 1848 when he observed the eyes in Balunus rugosus See Proc.
1848 9.
All the specimens of Lepas of which there were nine had the body distended with a brownishyellow Cyclops in large number.
fresii in appearance and generally entire.
Under the circumstances he at first suspected that they might be a larval form of the Lepas though aware of the fact that the cirripeds proceed from a Nauplius embryo which passes through a Cypris stage before assuming theBarnacle condition.
On further investigation he was convinced that the Cyclops were food and filled the stomach.
It appeared remarkable that they should haye been so well preserved and not crushed by the strongly sixtoothed mandibles of the Barnacle.
Some additional specimens of this species and a few of Lepas anatifera subsequently examined did not contain such an accumulation of similar food but usually the contents of the stomach consisted from two to half a dozen small gastropods with the shell several species of entomostraca some sand grains and a few vegetable fibres.
In all the broodcapsule a thin elliptical lamina situated between the body and the shell contained Nauplius larvae.
DecembePv 18.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Sixteen persons present.
December 25.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
A paper entitled Notes on Geology and Mineralogy by John Eyerman was presented for publication.
The death of Dr. Casper Wister a member Dec. 20 was announced.
The following animal reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee  REPORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY.
In view of the full reports of the Treasurer the Curators the Librarian and the various sections of the Academy the Recording Secretary has as heretofore but little to report apart from the statistics of the meetings of the society and the operations of the Publication Committee.
One hundred and sixtyeight pages of the Proceedings for 1887 and two hundred and seventytwo pages of the current volume have been issued and distributed.
Provision has been made for twenty plates in illustration of the papers presented for publication during the year.
These number thirtyfour and are by the following authors  Rev.
H. C. McCook 3 W. D. Hartraan 3 Jos.
Leidy 2 D. S. Jordan 2 Harrison Allen 2 Angelo Heilprin 2 Thomas Meehan 2 Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer 2 H. C. Chapman and A. P. Brubacker 2 H. C. Chapman 1 Otto Meyer 1 B. H. Wright 1 A. M. Fielde 1 E. N. S. Ringueberg  E. A. Kelly 1 C. Ochsenius 1 John Ford 1 C. R. Keyes 1 H. F. Osborn 1 H. A. Pilsbry 1 J. E. Ives 1 John Eyerman 1 R. W. Schufeldt 1.
One of these has been withdrawn by the author and the others are all in course of publication although two or possibly four will have to be held over until the issue of the first sheets of the volume for 1889.
Eighteen additions have been made to the list of foreign correspondents to whom the issues of the Proceedings are distributed the number being now four hundred.
The domestic exchanges are now sixtyeight an increase of seven over last year.
The subscription list remains the same so that five hundred and eightytwo copies of the one thousand printed are promptly distributed.
The second part of the ninth volume of the quarto Journal consisting of one hundred and ten pages and five lithographic plates was distributed after much vexatious delay in the printing office on the sixth of August.
Fifty copies were sent to foreign and twelve copies to domestic exchanges while thirtynine copies were supplied to subscribers making a total distribution of one hundred and one copies of the five hundred printed.
29 The average attendance at the meetings has been about the same as last year.
Communications which have been interesting and varied have been made by Messrs Leidy Heilprin Lewis Meehan Chapman McCook Koenig Dolley Ryder Horn Brooks Dall Rothrock Binder Willcox Morris Wilson Kelly Foote Sharp Meyer Woolman McKean Robinson Ford Brinton Redfield V. C Smith Ives Holstein and Le Boutillier.
Eleven members and four correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of thirteen members and two correspondents have been anuounced and two members Messrs C. L. Kilburu and Rev.
Geo.
D. Boardman have resigned.
The vacancy in the Council caused by the death of Mr. S. Fisher Corlies was filled June 26 by the election of Mr. Wm.
W Jefferis.
The following extract from the will of the late Geo.
AY.
Tryon Jr. was read at the meeting of Feb. 14 1888   I give to the Academy of 2satural Sciences of Philadelphia my collection of shells now deposited with that society conditioned that they .shall not be loaned or removed from the immediate custody of the said Academy and of its Conchological Section. '
The bequest was accepted on the condition as stated.
A bond of indemnitv having been given Feb. 14 to the executors of the estate of the late Mary R. D. Smith the Academy was placed in possession of the sum of 81201.
4U the proportion of said estate bequeathed to the society by Miss Smith.
The thanks of the Academy were voted to Dr. Charles Schaffer for his gift of 84939.
58 the amount received by him as commissions while acting as executor under the will of the late John Bryden to whose estate in accordance with the wish of Dr. Schafl'er the gift has been credited.
A like vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. Theodore D. Rand for the gift of 8100.00 the amount received by him for professional services in connection with the same estate.
The Academy having considered a deed of trust executed by Mrs. Emma W. Hayden for the endowment of the Hayden Geological Fund of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars in memory of her husband the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden the interest of which together with a bronze medal is to be awarded annually for the best publication exploration discovery or research in the .sciences of geology and paleontology by a committee to be appointed by the Academy the said deed of trust was accepted by and ordered to be executed on behalf of the Academy May 1 1888 and the following resolution for the appointment of the required committee was adopted   Resolved  That a committee not exceeding five to be appointed under the deed of trust of Nlrs.
Emma W. Hayden shall first be recommended by the Council of the Academy and shall be selected from the members at larsre and their names submitted to a vote of the Academy annually and if said vote of the Academy shall show their election they shall act as such committee under said deed.
The thanks of the Academy were ordered November 20 to be conveyed to Mrs. Clara Jessup Bloomfield Moore for her liberal addition of 85000.00 to the Jessup Fund endowed by her father the late A. E. Jessup.
By subsequent action of the Council the entire amount was ordered to be placed to the credit of that portion of the fund which is appropriated to the assistance of young naturalists.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. XOLAX.
Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF CORRESPOXDIXG SECRETARY.
The duties of the Corresponding Secretary during the past year have been neither important nor onerous.
The correspondence has related mainly to the publications of the Academy being either acknowledgments from corresponding societies or the usual letters transmitting their publications.
The acknowledgments number sixty by letter and fortythree by card divided as follows  By card American societies 23 Foreign 20.
By letter American societies 15 Foreign 45.
The letters of transmittal represent thirtyeight bodies of which but one is American.
These with the latter exception are very nearlv all those continuing their sendings through the International Exchange Agency.
During the past year the duties of the office were kindly performed bv the Curatorincharge for five months in the interval of the Secretary's absence abroad.
An opportunity was aiforded of seeing personally the officers in charge of the libraries of some of our corresjonding societies and 436 1888. of examining tlie series of our publications on their shelves.
The deficiencies which we could probably supply were indicated as wellas those not at our disposition.
All expressed themselves satisfied with the sending of our publications by mail and promised to do the same when the size of their volume permitted.
During the year there have been elected four Correspondents of the Academy all of whom have been promptly notified.
The duty of acknowledging donations to the museum which by the bylaws devolves on the Corresponding Secretary has been assumed by the Curatorincharge.
The Corresponding Secretaiy would again suggest such modification of the laws as will render this legal.
The reasons for the change are too obvious to need explanation.
Resjectfully submitted George H. Horn M. D. Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The additions to the library recorded since November 30 1887 amount to 3957 an increase of 577 over those received during the preceding year.
They consisted of 659 volumes 3284 pamphlets parts of periodicals and instalments of continued works and 14 maps.
The Accessions have been received from the following sources  Societies Editors I. V. Williamson Fund .
Authors 'I'homas Meehan Geological Survey of Sweden Geological Survey of Russsin Wilson Fund Australian Museum .
.
In Exchange Government of Victoria .
Treasury Department .
.
Department of Agriculture Department of the Interior Geological Survey of India Department of State .
.
Hon.
Chas.
M. BeUs .
.
Engineer Department U. S. A. 1619 838 952 203 47 29 25 23 21 21 15 12 12 10 10 9 7 7 Geological Survey of Minnesota IS'iinistry of Public Works in France Geological Survey of New South Wales Geological Survey of Canada Mr. Wm.
J. Potts Geological Survey of New Jersey Executors of the late Dr. Geo.
Martin Prof. Angelo Heilpnn .
.
.
Geological Survey of Kentucky Mrs. L. Fox Mr. Charles E. Smith .... Mr. J. H. Redteld Mrs. Dr. C. Hering .... South African Museum .
.
 Indian Museum at Calcutta .
.
4 4 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1888.
4pT Oi Geological Survey of New Zealand Geolojjical Survey of Roiimania Geological Survey of Pennsylvania Her Britannic Majesty's Government Smithsonian Institution .
.
.
British Museum War Department University of Aberdeen Geological Survey of Portugal .
They were assigned to the foil ows 7 Henry C. Gibson 1 6 DepartmentofMinesNovaScotia 1 Dr. Benjamin Sharp .... 1 California Slate Mining Bureau 1 Prince Albert of Monaco ... 1 6 United States Coast Survey .
.
1 5 M. Marlet 1 5 Boston City Hospital ....  5 Dr. Charles Schaffer .... 1 4 East Indian Government ... 1 4 Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt 1 several departments of the library as Journals 3034 Geology 267 Botany 135 General Natural History .
.
.
107 Conchology 43 Mineralogy 42 Entomology 41 Medicine 35 Anatomy and Pysiology ... 34 Physical Science 32 Voyages and Travels .... 30 Public Documents 28 Chemistry 22 Ornithology 22 Anthropology 21 Encyclopedias 9 Ichthyology Bibliography Languages Helmimhoiogy Geography Mammalogy Herpetology Agriculture Unclassified S S 7 5 4 3 2 12 The appended list of additions will indicate more specifically the nature of the year's increase.
We have procured from the publishers in Germany the parts lackingin the set of De Martins Flora Brasiliensis received last year from the Brasilian Government and the work is now complete as far as issued.
The revision of the catalogue of Journals commenced last year has been completed with the exception of the Scandinavian and Russian publications.
It is hoped that the entire work may be finished before the end of the year.
AVith the assistance of Signor Fronani whose services I have been again enabled to secure two hundred and thirtyfour letters asking for supply of deficiencies were sent in September to foreign societies.
Seventyfour answers have already been received and the increase of accessions over those recorded last year is mainly if not altogether due to the liberality of our correspondents in supplying us with the volumes and parts asked for.
The card catalogue exclusive of periodicals was completed early in the year and the geographical entries of journals have also been finished.
Cross references and title entries of the latter are now in course of preparation.
This will complete the catalogue within its 438 1888. present scope wliicli it will be remembered provides for author entries only in the special departments with a few exceptions such as official geological reports and scientific explorations Avhich are also catalogued under the names of the regions described.
It is of the utmost importance that the preparation of a subject catalogue be undertaken as soon as possible for while most of our readers know their authors a properly classified index to the broader subdivisions of specinl departments of the library would result not only in a saving of time but in a more thorough and reliable acquaintance with the work already done.
To complete such a catalogue within any reasonable limit of time the employment of skilled assistance will be absolutely necessary and it is to be regretted the Academy at present is unable to incur this expense.
An effort will be made however with such clerical aid as the librarian may be able to secure to go on as far as possible with the work in the time at his disposal during the year.
Progress vill necessarily be very slow in consequence of many unavoidable interruptions.
Since the last report 321 volumes have been bound including 08 volumes of pamphlets and 45 volumes are now in the hands of the binders.
A careful enumeration of the library Avas made at the beginning of November.
There are bound and unbound 30831 volumes at present on the shelfs including 615 bound volumes of pamphlets The latter embrace 8621 separate titles.
To these may be added 1445 volumes in the library of the Entomological Section.
Many of these are however duplicates of those in the main library.
The latter are divided as follows   VoLUMKS Pamphlets Journals    Germany 3430 France 2ol5 Great Britian  Ireland 2433 N. America 1012 Scandinavia  Russia 1302 Austiia 900 Italy 025 Switzerland 4.59 Belgium 378 Asia 328 Spain and Portugal 106 Africa and Australia 143 South America 100 General Natural Histo y Geology Botany Voyages and Travels Entomology Anatomy and Physiolc gy 14391 1 1 1 1 2350 56 2205 1997 1867 768 1532 67 1114 832 i 1020 781 11 Conchology Ornithology Bibliography Mineralogy Physical Science Anthropology Kncyclopedias Dictionaries Helminthology Public Documents Ichthyology Agriculture Mammalogy Medicine Chemistry Geography Antiquities and Fine Arts Herpetology Microscopy Miscellaneous Volumes Pamphlet 455 319 980 737 584 489 454 376 369 268 264 262 252 246 236 226 203 361 i6t 48 36 All of which is respectfully submitted Edavard J. Nolan 30831 345 493 180 263 174 184 184 645 227 143 8621 Librarian.
RfPORT OF THE URATORS.
The Curators present the following statement of the CuratorinCharge Prof. Heilprin as their report for the year 1888   The CuratorinCharge resiiectfully reports that the collections of the Academy are in good condition and that their status as far as classification and arrangement are concerned has been materially improved during the year As heretofore the Academy has profited largely through the work ol volunteer specialists and is hence placed under special obligation to those who have thus generously contributed their time and assistance.
To Mr. J. H. Redfield.
Conservator of the herbarium and to Mr. Thomas Meehan it is almost wholly indebted for the careful work that is being systematically applied toward the expansion and proper distribution of the botanical collections while to the officers of the Entomological Section and of the American Entomological Society it is placed under obligation for work done in connection with the department of entomology.
In the death of Mr. George W. Tryon Jr. its Conservator in the department of conchology for thirteen years the Academy has lost one of its truest and most efficient members  one who had for a full quarter of a century given much of his daily time to the interests of the institution.
That the department will feel for some time the want of his vast experience and the absence of his governing influence there can be no question  but it is hoped that under the special direction of the new conservator Mr. H. A. Pilsbry and of the Conchological Section it will be kept in that commanding position which it has so firmly and justly held.
In the departments other than those here specified the work has been done almost wholly under the direction of the CuratorinCharge and his assistant Mr. J. E. Ives.
As in preceding years the alcoholics have been completely overhauled and it is satisfactory to be able to report that there has been practically no loss in this part of the Academy's collections since the preparation of the last annual
statement.
It is less agreeable to report that during the latter part of the present year several attempts to force the ornithological eases have been made with the result of robbing the collection of some 200 specimens of South American and Australian birds mainly representatives of the family Tanagridie.
The greater number of these have been recovered and it now seems that the full loss resolves itself to jDossibly not more than a halfdozen specimens.
A change in the construction of the locks is urgently needed and it is recommended that steps looking toward the greater security of the cases be immediately taken.
The ornithological collections have largely profited during the year through the labors of Mr. Witmer Stone who has amidst other work very carefully reviewed the extensive and intricate family of the Tanagridae and determined the greater .number of the species that belong to this group.
His work shows that the Academy's representation is a very full one falling in point of species but little short of that of the British Museum.
A numerical estimate of the entire collection of mounted birds in the Academy shows it to comprise somewhat more than 28000 specimens  in addition to this there is a collection of some 3000 skins.
The work of systematically cataloguing this vast collection has been begun but much time must necessarily elapse before such a catalogue can be satisfactorily completed.
The entire museum collection of minerals has been rearranged during the year the specimens of the different mineral species being distributed strictly according to geographical position.
This method it is believed will largely facilitate comarative study.
The Wm.
S. Vaux collection continues to receive the close and valuable .superintendence of its special Conservator Mr. Jacob Binder through whom it has been brought into a condition of rare completeness.
A large proportion of the more commanding specimens which now distinguish the collection have been obtained through purchase on the special selection and recommendation of the Con.servator.
In most of the other departments of the museum the work has been mainly of a general character.
Mr. Ives under the direction of the CuratorinCharge has very carefully reviewed and redetermined the species of Ophiuroidea and Asteroidea and thereby added very materially to the extent of the collection represented.
Two new nspecies a Pteraster and a Coronaster were determined.
By a resolution of Council of April it was recommended that a handbook of the jSIuseum be prepared by the CuratorinCharge in conjunction with the members of the Board of Curators.
In .conformity with this recommendation the CuratorinCharge has devoted much time toward the preparation of such a handbook and it ives him pleasure to report that the same is now almost finished iind ready to go to press.
It is hcrcwitli submitted for approval to the Board of Curators.
The additions to the museum dui'ing the yoai lictailed iu the accompanying list of donations  have been both abundant and import1888.
XATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA.
441 ant.
Through the kindness of Dr. H. C. Chapman the Academy has received a fine selection of marine invertebrates from Bar Harbor Maine many species of which had not hitherto been represented in the general collection.
The Zoological Society of Philadelphia has also contributed largely in material from their gardens and thereby filled in many gaps that c6uld not otherwise be readily closed.
The trip to the Bermuda Islands which was planned by the CuratorinCharge and toward which the Academy generously contributed its assistance proved successful beyond anticipation and has resulted in placing in the Academy's museum a large and important collection of subtropical marine forms the greater number of which are now for the first time represented and many of which are new to science.
The results of the expedition which are now in course of publication in the Academy's Proceedings prove what benefits may be derived from zoogeographical research of this kind undertaken with only moderate expense and with 110 special preparation.
The value of this form of scientific research has been indicated in previous reports and attention is once more directed to the advisability of endowing a moderate zoogeograhical research fund the interest from which should be expended annually in the exploration of the numerous regions which still await investigation.
It is believed that no other method could be suggested which would yield such important scientific results and at the same time render the Academy a virtual centre of scientific activity in the country.
The CuratorinCharge again desires to call attention to the absolute need of an extension to the iresent accommodations  the existing conditions are becoming more serious every year and render a change if the efficiency of the institution is not to be lessened imperative.
The collections can no longer be advantageously increased nor can they be satisfactorily cared for in their restricted quarters.
Portions of the library are being gradually encroached upon and the workrooms are all filled.
The need for a suitable lecturehall or amphitheatre is pressing and the same is true of special students' rooms and laboratories.
It is earnestly hoped that the generous public of this city who have so kindly lent their assistance before will not allow the most important institution of the kind in the country to go in want.
The attempts to obtain aid from the State although often repeated have thus far proved abortive  but an effort will again be made during the coming session of the Legislature.
Attention is again called to the important question of Sunday opening.
The numerous requests for admission into the nuiseum on Sundays clearly speak the public mind  at any rate the wish of a large number of the city's inhabitants.
The Academy of the Fine Art and the Zoological Society have set an example in the right .
direction and there seems to be no reason beyond an inadequacy of funds to maintain such opening why our Academy should not follow the lead.
Sundayopening would certainly be a charity to that large body of useful citizens whose daily employment debars them from the advantages which the institution otherwise offers.
During the year specimens for study have been loaned to Prof. R. P. AVhitfiefd of New York  to Prof's.
Osborn and Scott of Princeton  to Dr. G. Baur of New Haven  to Dr. George Marx of Washington  and to Dr. Harrison Allen of this city.
Respectfully submitted Angelo HEiLppax CuratorinCharge.
Joseph Leidy Ch'n Curators.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. YArX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the AVilliam S. Yaux Collections respectfully submits his sixth annual report to the Council of the Academy.
The collections are in good order and condition the only change made since the report of 1887 being the introduction of one hundred and two specimens purchased within the year and added to the collection.
These specimens have been purchased at a cost of 420.10.
The collections now consist of the following  No.
of minerals reported 1887 6786 No.
of minerals purchased 1888 ..... 102 Total 6888 Archseological siecimens same as reported in 1887 .
2940 1888.
443 The growth of the collection since it came into the Academy's possession is as follows   Specimens iiurchased in 1884 ..... 60 Specimens purchased in 1885 Specimens purchased in 1886 Specimens purchased in 1887 Specimens purchased in 1888 Total 104 114 156 102 536 The aggregate cost of the 536 specimens has been .
2506.80 Most worthy of mention among the additions of the year are a fine specimen of Calcite in Malachite a superb Vanadinite and Wulfenite from Arizona  these specimens in color and crystalographic form are the finest ever brought to the city.
Other inter esting specimens are a single crystal of Gadolenite 6 inches in width by 9 inches in length said to be the largest crystal ever found  fine large crystals of Troostite Tryolite Erenite Opal Turquoise Thenardite Troua Hyalite Colemauite and others.
A number of species not heretofore represented in the collection have been added.
The visitors to the collection have not been as numerous as in former years  it may be remarked however that those who do visit it are iersons especially interested in mineralogy or archaeology who have made use of it more for the purpose of study than for the gratification of mere curiosity.
Respectfully submitted Jacob Binder Curator.
REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AXD ICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
During the year thirteen stated meetings were held with an average attendance of ten members.
Four public lectures were given.
The following gentlemen were elected members and contributors Members.
John T. Penuypacker  Lancaster Thomas.
 Contributors.
Dr. Xavier Suddutli  Frank Zentmayer  Edwd.
Bancroft.
Honorary Member.
Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt.
The section lost the following by death and resignations.
By death.
 Paul P. Keller Joseph Zentmayer S. Fisher Corlies.
Bv resiofnation.
 Members J. D. Sergeant Dr. Carl Seiler Charles T. Banes John Lambert.
Contributor AV alter Banes.
Communications were made upon the following subjects   December 5 1888.
Orthochromatic plates in differentiating details of color in photographing microscopic objects by Mr. W. H. Walmsley.
December 5 1888.
Some new results in removing embryos from the uterus by Prof. John Ryder.
December 5 1888.
Upon the fungus Rhytisma acerina by Dr. L. Brewer Hall.
December 5 1888.
Upon the fungus Badhamia fasciculata by IVIr.
Harold Wingate.
January 16 1888.
Public lecture by Rev.
Dr. H. C. McCook upon spiders and spiderlings.
February 3 1888.
Public lecture by Prof. W. P. Wilson upon plants that feed on insects.
Februarv 6 1888.
Presentation of a number of slides by Dr. Isaac Norris Jr. February 6 1888.
A series of slides illustrating the anatomy of the mouse's head by Prof. Ryder.
March 5 1888.
Lecture by Professors Wilson and Ryder assisted by Mr. Holman with the projecting microscope upon Celloidin mounts and the method of making sections of delicate tissues.
April 2 1888.
Upon the sexual habits of the Scale insects by Dr. L. Brewer Hall.'
April 2 1888.
lolluscum contagiosum by Dr. M. B. Hartzell.
April 2 1888.
The histology of the Skate with special reference to the formation and growth of the thymus gland and of peculiar sense organs by Prof. Ryder.
April 2 1888.
Upon some interesting forms of fungi by Dr. J.
B. Briutoii.
May 7 1888.
Upon Enterideum by Mr. Harold Wingate.
1888.
445May 7 1888.
Upou insect fertilization of plants Avitli special reference to the common chick weed and the glands found at the base of the stamens by Mr. Thomas Meelian.
May 7 1888.
Upon the formation of vessels in the corion and amnion by Prof. Ryder.
May 21 1888.
Upon the specific differences between Larapoderma and Comatricha by Harold Wingate.
April 21 1888.
Upon Cribraria argillacea by Dr. George A.. Rex.
June 4 1888.
Upou two new species of Badhamia B. reniformis and B. claviceps.
June 4 1888.
Upon the pollen of Cyrpripedium acaule by Tr L. Brewer Hall.
June 18 1888.
Upon the use of the parabolic reflector by Harold Wingate.
October 1 1888.
Upon the pollen of Cobea scaudens by Dr. G.. A. Rex.
October 1 1888.
Upou Bacillus tuberculosis by Dr. G. A. Rex.
October 15 1888.
Upou Analine staining by Prof. Ryder.
October 15 1888.
Upon chicken and hog cholera by Dr. J.. Cheston Morris.
November 5 1888.
Public lecture by Prof John Ryder upon the claims of biological research.
November 19 1888.
Upon the methods of teaching topographical histology by Prof Ryder.
November 19 1888.
Upon the formation of cartilage and bone by Prof Ryder.
The officers of the Section for the ensuing year are   Director .... Harold Wingate.
Vice Director Recorder Corresjionding Sec.
Treasurer Curator Yev resi John C. Wilson.
Dr. Robert J. Hess.
Dr. Charles Schaffer.
Dr. Isaac Noi'ris Jr. Chas.
P. Perot ectfully submitted Robert.
J. Hess M. D..
Recoi'der.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Coiichological Section respectfully reports that during the year ending Dec. 1st 1888 the Academy has continued to publish such conchological papei's as have been offered.
Two members have been elected.
The loss to the section by death has been the severest in its history.
On January 21st 1888 our honored Treasurer Mr. Wm.
L. Mactier was called from works to reward and we had hardly turned from paying our last tribute of respect to his memory when we were again summoned to perform the same service for our beloved Conservator the eminent Conchologist George W. Tryon Jr. who died February 5th 1888 while yet in the prime of life.
At a special meeting of the Section called for the purpose and held February 22nd 1888 appropriate minutes prepared by the Director were adopted and by direction sent to the families of the deceased.
William Laurence Mactier a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia since Jan. 1860 was born in the city of New York May 28 1818 and died at his home in this city Jan. 21 1888.
His father Henry Mactier was a native of Scotland and his mother a daughter of Augustine Hicks Laurence and Catherine Luquer was born in New York.
Mr. Mactier had been prepared for admission into the College of New Jersey intending after completing his general education there to devote himself to the medical profession.
But unexpectedly conclusive reasons forced him to abandon the project and seek a more speedy route to a livelihood in mercantile affairs  he became ix man of business.
The extent and character of his preliminary education fostered in him a taste for letters which he cultivated during his leisure so well that the College of New Jersey conferred upon him the honorary degree of Master of Arts.
Mr. Mactier was one of the constituents of the Conchological Sec tion of the Academy  and from the date of its institution Dec. 26 1866 was its treasurer.
During twentytwo years he discharged all the duties of the office efficiently and promptly.
He served in the Council of the Academy and was a member of its Committee on Instruction and Lectures.
He contributed 285 to the building fund and was a member of the Board of Trustees thereof.
He was a nieinbeiof the Musical Fund Society of Philadelphia and read a historical sketch of the institution before the Society Jan. 29 1885 which was published.
He was treasurer of the Society from 1864 to 1880  sixteen years  and vicepresident since 1881.
He Avas long a member of the Philadelphia Atheneum.
At fortysix consecutive annual elections of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company he was one of the judges of the election.
He was active in the Board of Publication of the Presbyterian Church  a Director of the  Mercer Home  Secretary of the Presbyterian Hospital  a member of the Deacon's Court and associate superintendent of the Sunday School of the Second Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia.
The position which he held the work he did are significant of his friendliness to natural science of his benevolence and public spirit as well as of the excellence of his character.
Resolved That in the death of William L. Mactier the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has lost an estimable member and efficient treasurer tliat in testimony of appreciation of our loss and as a tribute to his memory this brief of his virtues be entered uiou the record of Proceedings and that a copy thereof be transmitted to his family ly the Recorder.
The Director's extended and appreciative biograpliical notice of Mr. Tryon is published in the present number of the Proceedings of the Academy.
Our Conservator Mr. H. A. Pilsbry reports   The principal additions to the museum consist of suites of Mediterranean shells from Malta and the Balearic Isles received from Messrs B. Tomlin and Alfred Caruana  of Sandwich Is.
land .shells a large'series from Mr. Baldwin  and new Tasmanian shells from C. E. Beddome.
From the family of the late Vm. L. Mactier a number of interesting forms mostly of well known marine species.
A large number of American species have been received among which may be mentioned alpine land shells from Colorado Florida marine shells and a series of Texas shells.
A full list of the donations are included in the  Additions to the Museum.
The total number of additions made is 46 amounting to 603 trays 3455 specimens.
The collection now contains 192605 specimens in 51930 trays.
A valuable serres of alcoholic specimens has been received from Mr. Bryant Walker Detroit Mich.
In the museum the arrangement of the families Neritidce PhaaneUidce and Turhinidce has been nearly completed.
No changes have been made in the ByLaws of the Section.
The officers of the Section for 1889 are    Director .... W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
ViceDirector Recorder .
Treasurer .
Secretary .
Librarian .
Conservator John Ford.
Edward J. Xolan.
8.
Raymond Roberts.
John H. Redfield.
Edward J. Xolan.
Henry A. Pilsbry ResjDectfully submitted S. Raymond Roberts Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The ViceDirector of the Botanical Section respectfully reports a continued interest on the part of the members.
The membershi continues about as heretofore the meetings have been regularly attended and many facts of great interest brought to the attention of the Section and discussed by the members.
The Section is out of debt with a small surplus in its treasury.
The officers elected for the year ensuing are   Director .... Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
ViceDirector .
.
.
Thomas Meehan.
Recorder .... Dr. Charles Schaffer.
Cor.
Secretary and Treasurer .
Isaac C. Martindale.
Conservator .... John H. Redfield.
A most gratifying announcement is the completion of the great task of mounting all the specimens in the herbarium of North American plants as covered by Grays Synoptical Flora.
This was commenced in 1878 by the Conservator Mr. John H. Redfield assisted at various times by Messrs. F. Lamson Scribner Isaac Burk and the late Charles F. Parker.
The encouraging growth of the herbarium noted in our former annual reports still continues.
The large number of 1039 species were added to our former list making 28306 as the total number of species of vascular plants represented in the herbarium.
The Conservator's report to the Section giving the details of theseadditions is added as a part of this report.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Me eh an ViceDirector.
Conservator's Report for 1888.
 The Conservator of the Botanical' Section reports that during the year closing Dec. 10th the additionsto the herbarium consist of 2525 species of which 2296 are vascular jilants and 229 are Lichens Fungi and Alga.
Of the 2296 specie of vascular plants 1040 are believed to be new to our collection 77 of them being of genera not before represented.
693 species areNorth America 1414 are from Tropical America 171 from the Eastern Continent and 18 are Australian.
It is gratifying to know that the rate of increase has not declined and that so large a portion of it is of forms not previously represented.
The most important addition of the past year is the completion of the collections made by Dr. H. H. Rusby in Bolivia and the neighboring regions in 1885 and 1886 consisting of 983 species of Avhicb nearly 600 are believed to be new to us.
Including the portion of this collection received by us the previous year the whole consists of 1433 species.
These have been contributed by members of theSection supplemented by the proceeds of duplicate plants sold byits order.
Other valuable additions to our representation of the flora of Tropical America are  266 species collected by C. G. Pringle in the Province of Coahuila Mexico and 00 .species collected in the Mexican Province of Tabasco and presented by Sr. Jose N. Rovirosa from whom we have reason to expect further contributions.
The number of species of vascular plants in the herbarium of the Academy at the date of the last report was estimated at .
2726T to which add the accession of new species of this year .
1040 giving the estimated present total ..... 28307 of which 8200 are North American that is from the region covered by Gray's Synoptical Flora.
In May last was completed the work of mounting the special herbarium of North American plants.
This Avork Avas begun un 1878 and has been continued from year to year in the intervals of other duties.
In this the Conservator received most efficient aid 30 from the late Charles F. Parker from F. L. Scribuer and more recently from Mr. Isaac Burk.
A complete list of the additions to the herbarium is appended and Avill appear in its proper place under the head of Additions to the Museum.
Respectfully submitted John H. Redfield Consei'vator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Director of the Mineral and Geohgical Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences would respectfully report that meetings of the section have been held nearly every month during the year except the summer months.
Some of these have been quite well attended at others the attendance has been small.
On the whole he regrets to say the itnterest has not been as great as in former years but this has been largely due to absence of active members from causes beyond their control.
The meetings during the latter part of the year have been better attended and more interest has been manifested than in the earlier part so that the outlook is more favorable.
The following officers were elected to serve during the ensuing year   Director .... Theodore D. Rand.
ViceDirector Treasurer Conservator .
Recorder and Secretary Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
John Ford AVilliam y.
Jefferis.
Dr. Charles SchafFer.
Respectfully submitted Theo.
D. Rand Director.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that he has during the year delivered a course of lectures on geology which as heretofore has been ilhistrated or supplemented with practical field demonstrations.
He has also delivered in the hall of the Academy a number of lectures before the Teachers' Institute of this city and contributed four lectures to the Friday Evening course of the Academy.
During the month of July be conducted a class in the exploration of the Bermuda Islands Avhich had hitherto received but little attention from naturalists.
The inquiry extended as well to the zoological as to the geological features of the island group and has resulted in bringing to the museum a rich store of material the greater part of which is new to the collections.
The details of the exploration to which reference is also made in the Curator's Report are being published in the Academy's Proceedings.
The collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology remain pretty much as they were last year.
A number of additions but none of any great significance have been received.
Perhaps the most valuable of these is a collection of cretaceous plants from Kansas obtained from C. H. Sternljerg in exchange for certain volumes of the Academy's Proceedings.
Mention should also be made of a fine selection of crinoids from the Carboniferous formations of the central United States generously given to the Academy by Messrs Wachsmuth and Springer of Burlington Iowa.
The general condition of the collections is good.
But here as in almost all other departments of the Academy's Museum additional accommodations arc badly needed.
Respectfully submitted Angelo Heilpein Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
During the past year the course of lectures usually delivered by me was omitted owing to my absence from the city.
The collections have received some but not extensive additions in this department.
It would be desirable and would benefit this branch of instruction were all the ethnologic objects in the possession of the Academy arranged and classified separately from the other collections and according to the ethnic method of display.
To accomplish this the exclusive use of sufficient space would be needed to exhibit the objects and allow room to fill the lacuure in the collection.
At present this does not appear to be within the power of the Academy  but it seems proper to state that siicli an arrangement is very desirable so that it may receive consideration in any future extension of the Society's building.
Respectfully submitted D. G. Brinton Professor of Ethnology and Archceology 1888.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HENSZEY TREASURER For the Year Ending Nov. 30 1888.
Dr. To Balance from last account 2007 5G  Initiation Fees HO GO  Contributions semiannual 1.590 57  Life Memberships 300 00  Popular Lectures 26 75  Publication Committee  Sales of Proceedings Journal etc 659 30  Interest on Investments 2503 65  Interest on Money awaiting Investment 889 90  State tax on Mortgages II3 10  Wilson Fund toward Salary of Librarian 300 00  Rentals from Real Estate 1J62 48  Sale of Duplicate Books 7 70  Miscellaneous 123 57 110494 61 Cr.
By Salaries Janitors etc 3742 78'  Printing and Binding Proceedings etc J4.50 79  Printing and Stationery 78 28 ' Plates and Engravings 248 00  Postage 69 77  Gas 102 68 ' Coal 367 50  Insurances 55 00  State Tax on Mortgage Investments 113 10  Taxes and Water Rents 418 25  Cards Trays and Boxes 74 27  Municipal Expenses 179 42  Repairs and Expenses to Real Estate 216 80  Glass and Glassware 102 49  Lecture Fees paid to Professors 213 10  Specimens 75 00  Cases and Drawers 5 00  Expenses Publication Committee 150 00 ' Real Estate Title Co. Insurance of Title to 3 Mortgages for 32000 80 00  Miscellaneous 849 72  Life Memberships transferred to Investment account 300 00 8891 95 Balance 1602 66 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance overdrawn last statement 307 60 Books 2284 22 Collecting 84 66 Taxes and Water Rents 200 55 Repairs to Houses 214 18 3091 21 Rents Collected 1041 50 Ground Rents Collected fifiO 64 Amount transferred from General Fund Interest on money awaiting investment 135 00 Proportion of repairs refunded 12 04 1858 18 Balance overdrawn 1233 05 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance overdrawn as per last statement 57 69 Books 231 16 Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 300 OO 588 85 Less Income from Investments 525 00 Balance overdrawn 63 85 JESSUP FUND.
For assistance of Students.
Balance last statement 288 01 Interest from Investments 560 00 848 01 Disbursements 480 00 Balance 368 01 WILLIAM S. VAUX FUND.
Balance per last statement 319 29 Interest from Investments 700 00 1019 29 Cash paid Jacob Binder for purchase of Minerals 400 OO Balance 619 29 INVESTMENT ACCOUNT.
Balance per last statement 23149 76 Cash received from The Fidelity Insurance and Trust Co. under the will of Mary Rebecca Darby Smith 1201 49  received from Dr. diaries Scaffer Executor of the Estate John Bryiien deceased 4939 58  received of Theo.
I.
Rand to be added to amouut received from Ir Schaffer for Bryden Estate 100 00  received from Emma W. Ilayden Hayden Memorial.
2500 00  received from W. N. Johnson for j of sale of lot 800 79  received from sale of lot to Charles R. Maguire and transferred to Mrs. A. M. Paul cash portion 333 33  received from sale of lot in Manayunk to Edward Haiigh 300 00  received from Mrs. Clara J.
B. Moore addition to Jessup Fund  5000 00  transferred from General Account 3 Life Memberships 300 00 3S624 95 Of the above amount there has been invested in 3 Mortgages on city properties 32000 00 Balance 6624 95 The election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee to serve during the year 1889 was held with the following result  President .
.
.
Joseph Leidy M. D. VicePresidents .
.
Thomas Meehan Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. Recording Secretary .
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Corresponding Secretarij George H. Horn M. D. Treasurer .
.
.
William C. Henszey Librarian .
.
.
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Curators .
.
.
Joseph Leidy M. D. Jacob Binder W. S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. Angelo Heilprin Councillors to serve three Edward Potts years .
.
.
Isaac C. Martindale Theo.
D. Rand J. Bernard Brinton M. D. Finance Committee .
Isaac C. Martindale Aubrey H. Smith George Y. Shoemaker William W. Jefferis Joseph Willcox.
