OBSERVATIONS ON NESTS OF SAYORNIS FUSCTJS.
BY THOS.
0.
GENTRY.
It is the commonly received opinion that birds of the same sjDecies uniformlybuild their nests of the same materials and in the same form and situation though they inhabit different climates.
This however is not invariably the case as a few observations will show.
On the north branch of the Susquehanna some months since I procured several nests of oiir common Phebe bird Sayornis fusciis Baird which in size structure and materials mUrht be taken as nests of species distinct from the one under consideration.
As these nests were found upon the horizontal beams of a wagonshed they would not seem to require such compactness of structure as when built in more exposed situations.
After a careful examination of several nests from different localities I find that they are usually circular at the top with a depth externally differing but little from the average diameter.
By measurement I obtain the following dimensions Diameter from side to side 3 in. depth 3 in.
 diameter of cavity within 2 in. making the thickness of the lateral walls  in.
 depth of cavity l in. indicating a thickness at the bottom of l in.
These nests are composed of fine roots grasses fine mosses and hairs which are plastered together and to the objects upon which they are built by pellets of mud  within they are lined with soft grasses lint hairs and sometimes with wool and feathers.
Number one of deviation is nearly circular with an average diameter of 4 in.
and a depth of 2 in. being considerably depressed.
Diameter of cavity 2iin. depth 1 in.
 thickness of lateral walls I in.
 at the bottom 1 in.
The nest is constructed wholly of the silk of corn with a few strings and hairs on the inside for a lining the absence of moss and clay pellets being a noticeable feature of the nest  such ordinarily indispensable materials evidently not being requisite if the site of the nest aflbrds any criterion of judging.
Number two of these anomalous forms is circular with a diameter of .5 in. and a depth of 2 in.
on the outside  within 2 in.
in diameter and 2 in.
in depth  lateral walls 1 in.
in thickness  inferior  in.
The entire nest is composed of the inner bark of the chestnut plucked doubtless from fence rails and reduced to very fine strips for the inner part of the nest and gradually attaining a width of nearly onefourth of an inch on the exterior.
In an intermediate form between the ordinary form and the first deviation therefrom I find the diameter 4 in.
externally' depth 2 in.
 cavity 2 in. and depth 1 in.
 lateral walls each 1 in.
 inferior  in.
This nest is formed of fine grasses hair wool and an abundance of moss externally  within it is lined by fine grasses and hairs  the absence of clay would seem to impl' an unexposed place for its site to which theory the looseness of its structure most assuredly adds weight.
That a species which has always been known to build a nest so characteristic as the pewee should deviate so considerably and suddenly as it seems to be from its ordinary habit of nestbuilding is remarkable.
But such is the fact as the motherbird was discovered in the act of incubation.
It has been suggested that possibly these nests were stolen propert and not the work of the bird in question.
But this I am satisfied is not the case.
The individuals of some species do take forcible possession of the abodes of others or the cavities in which such are secreted but I have never known the intruders to occupy the same except in the case of Molothrus pecoris Seo. of America and Cuculus canorus of England.
As these birds never build but deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds I am hardly disposed to grant the propriety of considering them in this light.
It is well known that Troglodytes sedon of Yerrill does when prompted by a mischievous spirit drive away Icterus Baltimore Daud. and Sayornis fuscus Baird from their rightful propert and take up her abode therein but not without having previously constructed her rude nest of coarse sticks well lined with feathers and down.
So strong is the attachment of birds to the nests of their own construction that the parental instinct is often lost sight of.
Proofs could be cited to sustain this assertion.
One however will suffice.
Two years ago in Atlantic County New Jersey I came across a nest of the robin which on account of its curious arrangement I desired to possess.
Unable to wait until the unfledged brood had taken their departure I conceived the plan of remoA'ing them to another nest of the same species not so neatly constructed and tastefully arranged.
But as I had anticipated the mother deserted her offspring  the love for home predominating over ever' other feeling.
These deviations from the usual style of nest building by the pewee would seem to argue against the belief generally entertained that instinct being a positive determination given to the minds of animals for certain purposes must necessarily be perfect when viewed in connection with those purposes but to say that they doubtless iropl' a chavge of instinct is to perplex the understanding by a perversion of language.
But to ascribe these changes to the operations of reason influenced b' motives does seem to be the most rational view to take of the subject.
That reason does enter into the inferior creatures and dictate man' of the changes of habit which mark their career has been shown in many instances  but I cannot forbear to record one which came under mj' observation in the spring of 1871.
While watching a pair of Ampelis cedrorum Baird engaged in the building of a nest on a branch of an apple tree it occurred to me that by supplying them with materials I might secure a nest neater and more compact than those usually made.
The birds entered into the project with readiness and carried away every piece of colored string and cotton fabric with which I supplied them.
After I had ceased to furnish the materials they would fly repeatedly to the branch where the articles were deposited as if imploring my services.
The result was a nest firmer more symmetrical and more elegant in proportions than any I had ever observed.
If instinct had been the controlling principle in this case the birds would not have given my labors so much attention but admitting that they had been actuated by reasoning faculties in their selection the whole thing is perfectly plausible.
Instinct is always the same thing  it never advances never retrogrades  but reason tends to improvement when it can serve a good purpose.
As the nests which form the subjectmatter of this paper were found within a short distance of each other it would seem that circumstances peculiar to the neighborhood had rendered a deviation from the common form necessary.
Observation teaches us that when danger or any other circumstance renders a change in the character of the nest necessary that deviation is made in an equal degree and in the same manner by all the birds of one species and that it does not extend beyond the limits of the region where alone it can serve a good purpose.
