SYNONYMICAL REMARKS UPON NORTH AMERICAN COLEOPTERA.
BY JOHN L. LE CONTE M.D.
In the Annals and Magazine of Natural History November 18t0 I published some notes made during a rapid examination of various collections in London and Paris  subsequent opportunities enabled me to make some additional notes and more careful studies of the species which I had not time to investigate on my first visits.
These are contained in the present paper with such corrections of my former notes as seem to be necessary at the present time.
1.
CiciNDELA LONGiLABRis Say.
A Specimen jabelled Bermuda in the Oxford Museum.
2.
C JNIagdalen.
Marked like cinctipennis Lee but the prothorax is more rugose the elytra more strongly punctured and distinctly serrate at tip  in addition to the usual markings dilated and connected at the margin there is a basal white spot as in macra and a subsutural white vitta.
Oxford Museum found in turpentine barrels brought to London supposed to be from North Carolina.
I have named this species in friendly recollection of Magdalen College Oxford the genial influence of which has been experienced by man' scientific nilgrims to the Universit3 3.
C. lacerata Chaud.
nom Louisiana scarcely differs from the Mexican C. hamata.
4.
C. PAMPHiLA Chaud.
An undescribed species from Texas of stout form allied to pallifera.
Elytra with the dark spaces strongl' punctured tip very finely almost obsoletely serrate  last ventral segment 9 longitudinall' impressed and marked with white spots.
5.
Elaphrus americanus Dej.
The type in the collection of Baron Chaudoir is evidently the common species afterwards described by me as punctatissimus.
There are many other synonyms for the various races which occur in its wide distribution from the Atlantic to the Pacific and northwards nearly to the Arctic circle.
6.
NoTioPHiLUS aquaticusX Kirb'.
The type in the British Museum does not resemble the European species  it is more brassy than siBiRicus with the stride of the elytra more strongly punctured  the inner rows are less impressed behind  the dorsal fovea is deep  the scutellar stria is deep and there are four or five small punctures between it and the sutural stria.
It seems therefore to be N. SEMisTRiATUs Say.
T. Nebria Helobia castanipes Kirby afterwards described as N. moesta Lee and previously as N. Sahlbergi Dej.
8.
Calosoma peregrinator Guerin Rev.
Zool.
1844 p. 255 angulatum Lee prominens Lee.
Resembles llgubre but is less shining and not so coarsel punctured.
9.
C. angulatum Chevr.
Col. Mex.
1 No.
44.
Resembles externum in form but differs in the pi'othorax being angulated at the sides.
Mexico.
10.
C. armatum Lap.
Etudes Entom.
15G  C. alternans Fabr.
fide Chaudoir.
Antilles.
n. C.fulgidiis Gebler coll.
Mnizsech.
A variety of vietingHovii with the elytra more coarsely reticulate.
Alaska.
12.
C. meander Fischer ZapiVayt Lap.
 Tatumi Motsch.
Extends from North America through Kamtschatka to Siberia.
13.
C. ligatus J Kirby the type is C. serratus Say.
14.
Cychrus interruptus Men.
coll.
Chaudoir is G. conslrictus Lee.
15.
C. alternatus Motsch.
ibid.
is as large as C. striatopunctatus Chaud. but the elytra are broader and the prothorax a trifle narrower with the hind angles more distinctly margined behind  the specimens are 
 and they seem to belong to the large one having only two joints of the  front tarsi spongy beneath.
16.
Cimindis marginata Kirb'  rejlexa Lee cribricollis Dej.
n. C. UNicoLOR Kirby is a small immature specimen of G. Inidsonica Lcc.
 the sides of the prothorax are more widely margined than in pilosa distinctly sinuate behind and the hind angles are prominent.
18.
C. VENATOR Dej. according to Baron Chaudoir differs from AMERICANA Dej.
My series is not sufllcientl' large to decide this point.
19 A specimen of Triciiotiiorax cyaneus Montr. from New Caledonia in the collection of Mr Perroud at L3'ons is very similar to the variety of our Rhombodera pallipes in which the prothorax and legs are yellow.
20.
Anchomenus angusticoUis Kirby agrees with the common race of Platynus sinuatus except that the basal angles of the prothorax are less prominent the basal impressions and the ely tral strife less punctured.
The specimen of P. stygicus Lee.
shown me on a former visit to the British Museum was erroneously labelled but was not Kirby 's type the synonym given in Annals and Magazine of Nat.
History Nov. 1870 p. No.
5 is therefore incorrect.
21.
A. EXTENSicoLLis.
Mr. Kirby's specimens belong to the elongate bluishgreen race without any elevation in the basal impressions of the prothorax 22.
Agonum affine Kirby is Harrisii Lee.
23.
A. PiciPENNE Kirby.
Var.
a is a species as large as P. RUFiCORNis Lee with the prothorax equally elongate and the sides not explanate or reflexed  it seems to be lutulentua Lee.
24.
A. picijenne xavs.
c and d are ruficornis Leg 25.
A. sordens Kirby a could not be found  b seems to be fuscescens Chaud.
26.
A. SEMiNiTiDUM Kirb3 I learn from Mr. C. 0.
Waterhouse that this species differs from P. chalceus Lee.
by the elytra being shorter more shiniug and less parallel at the sides.
27.
Stereocerus similis Kirby is the species of Amai'a described as FeRONIA HiEMATOPUS Dcj.
28.
Cyrtonotus rufimanus Kirby has the sides of the prothorax distinctly sinuate behind and the hind angles prominent.
It seems without comparison to be A. lacustris Lee.
C. brevilabris Kirby is a specimen of the same species with the labrum retracted under the epistoma.
29.
G.convexiusculus  Kirby is A. laticollis Lee.
The European species is narrower with the prothorax much more narrowed behind and more sinuate on the sides as in A. Jacobins Lee.
30.
C. LATiOR Kirby is A. libera Lee  Isevistriata Putzeys a Brad3'tus with sides of prothorax rounded hind angles obtuse and not rounded.
31.
Amara impuncticollis Say.
Mr. Kirby's specimens have the sides of the prothorax more oblique and less rounded and the basal fovene more distinct than in the specimens sent by Mr. Sprague for comparison but I do not think that it is a diflerent species.
32.
A. vulgaris  Kirbj is a rather elongate flattened species with the basal fovete of the prothorax double distinct and well seiarated veiy feebly punctured  elytra strongly sinuate towards the tip hind tibia  sliglitly curved not pubescent on the inner face.
It is of the size of ixterstitialis and very nearly related to it but more depressed and witli deeper protlioracic basal fovere and seems to be what I incorrectly determined as LEvipennis Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1855 353.
33.
A. disco7s Kirby r ciialcea Dej. has the hind angles of the prothorax sharply defined the base of the prothorax is not punctured and the sides not explanate  it seems therefore to be A. CHALCEA Dej.
34.
A. LiEviPENXis Kirb' is a small species of bright bronze color with the sides of the prothorax not explanate basal foveae distinct strioe of eltra fine not deeper behind  antennne apparently entirely black hind tibia
9 not pubescent on inner side.
Size of European A. coMMUNis but quite distinct.
I have described this species as erratica Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
1855 353.
35.
A. PALLiPES Kirby.
Correctlj' determined in my cabinet.
Narrower and more convex than angustata Say with the basal foveas verv distinct.
36.
Iso2leurus nitidiis  Kirby is Amara subtenea Lee.
The mentum tooth is not etnarginate and but slightly impressed at tip.
31.
T. macleayi Kirby is a Selenophorus allied to S. stigmosus but with the basal angles of prothorax rectangular.
Probably from the Antilles certainly not East Indian.
38.
Miscodera AMERICANA Mann.
coll.
Chaudoir is very similar to M. IIardyi Chaud. but is smaller more bronzed witli more globose and narrower prothorax and eljtral stri.ne still more obliterated.
39.
DiCyELUS scuLPTiLTS Say.
The more convex and shining northern race of this species has been named intricatus by Baron Chaudoir.
40.
D. ambiguus Fertd not different from opacus Fertd and rejlexus Lee.
41.
Badister peUatus  Dej.
The insect mentioned as the American variet' of this species is B. flavipes Lcc.
42.
Licinus silphoides.
Two specimens of this insect from North American turpentine are in the Oxford Museum.
I have seen several which were taken alive in Massacliusetts  so that it must be regarded as fairlj' introduced into our fauna.
43.
Chlnius fulgiceps Newman could not be found in the British Museum.
44.
G. emarginatus  Kirby could not be found.
45.
C. impundifrons  Kirby b' comparison is C. pensylvaNicus Say.
46.
G. chlorophaniis Dej.
is C. solitarius Say.
47.
C. cordicollis Kirby is G. chlorophanusX Lee.
 G. Lecontei.
Dej.
48.
G. quadricollis Kirby is a green variety of tricolor and not brevilabris Lee which is not among Kirbj's specimens.
49.
PoLPocHiLE Sol.
 Melanotus  Dej.
 Gratocara Lee.
 Phymatocephalus Schaum.
50.
Harpalus laticollis Kirby on comparison proves to be AniSODACTYLUS NiGERRiMUS Dej. and not A. Harrisii Lee.
as incorrectly stated by me in Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
5L H. INTERPUNCTATUS Kirby is the species which I have determined New Species p. 15 as A.nigrita Dej. but which Baron Chaudoir considers different and has named A. Lecontei.
52.
H. ocHROPUS Kirby agrees with desertus Lee except that the hind angles of the prothorax are nearly impunctate.
53.
H. BASiLLARis Kirby is obesidus Lee.
and  Amara externa Walker.
54.
DiCHiRUS BRUNNEUS Dej.
coll.
Chaudoir is like piceus in form but smaller with the hind angles of the prothorax rectangular and slightly prominent.
55.
Trechus similis Kirby is the common Agonoderus with the hind angles of the prothorax rounded  comma Fabr.
fide Zimm.
pallipes Saj' Dej.
56.
T.Jlavijjes Kirby is Bradycellus rupestris Say.
57.
T. rujicrus Kirby is B. cognatus as correctly observed by Baron Chaudoir.
58.
T. immunis Kirby is Stenolophus conjunctus Sa.
59.
Peryphus concolor Kirby.
On renewed examination this appears to be Bembidiura salebratum Lee.
60.
Peryphus picipes Kirby.
The specimen is in bad condition but seems to be of very convex form.
It is smaller than 7 91 8 Sprague and has the elytral striae very finely punctured.
6L P. scoPULiNus Kirbj' is B. gelidum Lee.
62.
Notaplms variegatusW Kirby is not versicolor Lee but a smaller species with more convex prothorax more narrowed at the base  it seems to be B. pictum Lee.
63.
N. iNTERMEDius Kirb' of the same size as versicolor but with the sides of the prothorax distinctly sinuate near the base seems to be B. rapidum Lee.
64.
N. NiGRiPES Kirby versimilar to intermedius but nearly black with small pale spots and dark legs.
05.
Tachyla picipes Kirby is T. inornatus Say  T. nanus of Europe as correctly determined by Schaum Ins.
Deutschl.
i.
60.
Haliplus pantherinus Aube.
The type in the British Museum is a small species resembling immaculicollis in size and color.
67.
CoLPius INFLATUS Ijqc  Supliis Douhledayi B. M. Cat.
68.
SuPHis F0RSTER14.
C'at. size of gibbulus but the elytra are very strongly punctured.
69.
Hydrocanthus Harrisii B. M.
Cat. size of gibbulus but narrower with the elytra black finely and obsoletely punctured.
TO.
Colymbetes piieopterus Kirb.
 with the last joint of front tarsi not deformed  9 sides of prothorax finely margined very slightly rounded scarcely forming an angle with the elytra Qy finely reticulate somewhat dull  elytra very finely granulatoreticulate and sparselpunctulate.
Tl.
C. BicoLOR Kirby.
More regularly elliptical and convex than the preceding also finely granulatoreticulate but scarcely punctulate prothorax similar in form but not more reticulate in 9 than   elytra pale towards the sides.
Both species are allied to AgABUS DISCOLOR.
T2.
C. RETiGULATUS Kirb' is allied to Aqabus arcticus of Europe.
73.
Colymbetes sinuatus Lee.
should be compared with the European C. Graph Avhich it closely resembles.
74.
Acilius Maccullochii Kirby is mediatus Say.
75.
Hydroporus exiguus Aubd.
Xothing like this is in our collections.
70.
Nkcrophorus melsiiei.meri Kirb' evidentljthe form named infodiens Mann.
The protliorax is as in marifimus of which it is a variet antenna with the base of the club black remaining joints red  elytra witli two bands and epipleuroe red.
77.
N. Ilallii Kirby is orbicollis Say.
78.
N. hebes Kirby is a variety of yespilloides the protliorax is as in maritimus club of antemiffi entirely black elytra with two bauds the front one extending forwards on the epipleurai to the humeri leaving a black portion behind the humerus on the upper side of the epipleura.
79.
Leiodes punctostrtatus Kirby has the hind tarsi 4jointed and is therefore an Anisotoma and not Hydnobius as incorrectly stated by Erichson.
The punctures of the rows are very large and those of the alternate spaces also large.
80.
Pselaphodes Westwood is allied to Tmesiphorus but differs in form of palpi.
81.
Sintectus Westwood equals Tmesiphorus Lee.
The Australian species closely resembles T. costalis Lee.
82.
Aleochara pallitarsis Kirby is a rather large black Homalota with the prothorax broadly impressed near the base and feebly channelled elytra brownish a little wider than prothorax finely not densely punctulate and pubescent abdomen dorsal surface shining not strongly punctured  antennte heavy black 2d and 3d joints each more than  longer than 4th  scape stouter and a little longer than the 2d.
A common species.
83.
Tachyp07nis acuductus Kirby is ventriculus Say  the right elytron is striated and rugose towards the tip but the left is uniformly finely punctulate.
84.
T. AFFiNis Kirby is nearly of the same form but less convex the prothorax very finely and the elytra very strongly punctulate.
85.
Omalium planipenne Miiklin is 0. jineti Thomson.
86.
Distemmus ARGUS is very similar to and perhaps identical with a European species of Omalium.
87.
Omalium marginatum Kirby is an Olophrum with the prothorax sparsely and coarsely punctured slightl' narrowed behind hind angles obtuse but distinct disk moderately convex elytra very strongly punctured nearly as long as the abdomen.
Described by Maeklin under the same name.
88.
0. sanguineum and perocellatum.
B. M. from Hudson Baj' are allied to 0. convexicolle Lee.
89.
Acidota seriata Lee.
is crenata Fabr.
according to Miiklin Stettin Ent.
Zeitung 1872 247.
89a.
Nitidula obscura and ossiuyn Kirby is the black immaculate species which is not uncomraon in the northern parts of the continent.
90.
N. DiscoiDEA Fabr. Kirby seems to be the Californiau Omosita i7ive7'sa Lee but the northern specimens are smaller.
91.
Epurjea BOREELLAEr. a small narrow black species similar to NIGRA Miiklin common to Europe and North America.
92.
EuROPS Wollaston is Nomophloeus Lee.
93.
HESPEROBiENUS TESTACEUS4.
Motsch.
is a species of Bactridium broader than B. nanum and uniforml testaceous.
94.
Atomaria atra'l Kirby is a small convex shining coarsely punctured species elytra testaceous legs and abdomen pale yellow.
Probably a dark variety of A. ltula Lee and not at all like the European A.atra.
95.
Anchomma Lee.
Compare with Microtelus Sol.
Ann.
Ent.
Tr. 1838 pi.
1 f. 3.
96.
CoRTicARiA DENTicuLATA Kirby is quite 'different from C. Serrata of the same collection  it is smaller nearl black prothorax broadh' and deeply foveate near the base sides much rounded regularly and less coarsel' serrate.
97.
LoBERUS Lee.
 a species of this genus from Chili is in the British Museum.
98.
CATOGENUSPUNCicoLLisNewm.is not in the British Museum.
99.
Penthelispa Pascoe Oct. 18G0 is Endectus Lee.
May 1801.
100.
MiNTHEA Pascoe seems allied to Trogoxylon Lee.
101.
Hemipeplus marginipennis Lee.
seems to be OchroBanis Dohrnii Pascoe 1866.
102.
Elacatis Pascoe 1860 is Othnil'S Lee.
1861.
The geographical distribution of this genus is very remarkable  Borneo and United States.
108.
Thorictus I saw in Mr. SalM's collection the onl3' representative of this family thus far found in America  a small species collected in San Domingo.
104.
Byrriius PiciPES Kirb' a rather large species with a transverse subniarginal black spot on the eljtra behind the middle.
It is correctly determined in my snopsis.
105.
DicnELONYCHA viRESCENS Kirb' is the common northern species with the prothorax tolerably densel' punctured thinly pubescent feeblj' channelled  the lateral angles are distinct the basal ones well defined acnte luit not prominent.
It is subvittata of my synopsis Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
So. 2d.
ser.
iii.
279.
106.
Melolontha paradoxa Beauvois according to Salle is Bhijndandrus Jiabellicornis Sturm.
107.
The Australian genera Phyllotocus and Macrothops McLeay are related to Oncerus Lee.
in form and by the double epistoma.
108.
Cheiragra McLeay from Australia is allied to ChnaunanTHUS Burm.
and Acratus Horn.
The position of the spiracles must be obserA'cd in these genera to determine their true affinities.
109.
Liogenys Homalochilus and Hllarianus have the propygidiura connate with the fifth ventral as in Diplotaxis which they resemble in form and sculpture.
110.
Hypotrichia Lee.
and Plectrodes Horn agree inform and general characters with Clavipalpus but the last differs in having the ungues alike and armed with a broad acute tooth.
The proP3'gidium is connate wath the fifth ventral and the spiracle is placed on the connecting suture  the fifth ventral is elongated.
111.
Leuretra Er.
resembles Clavipalpus b' the fifth ventral being elongated but the mouth organs are less developed as in other Pachypodidfe with which the three genera mentioned in 110 must probably be associated.
112.
Diplotaxis GEORGiiE Blanchard Paris Museum is similar to D. SUBCOSTATA Blauch.
but larger with the prothorax more sparsel' and coarsely punctured and the interspaces of the elytra flatter and not subcostate behind.
D. moesta of the same collection seems only an individual variation of subgostata larger than usual with the punctures of the occiput and prothorax more feeble.
113.
D. Harperi Blanch is allied to excavata but is ferruginous with the epistoma rounded not at all truncate and frontal carina impressed at the middle.
.
114.
D. frondicola  Blanch is also ailied to excavata black with the elytra a little more rugosely punctured  seems onlj' an individual variety.
115.
D. punctatorugosa Blanch is excavata Lee.
The form is not breviter ovata as described and the upper tooth of the front tibise is feeble.
The description being erroneous the name should be dropped into synonymy.
22 IIG.
Ancylonycha PROFUNDA Blanchai'd seems to be Lachnosterna rugoaa Lee.
in.
.
brevicollis Blanch is a race of L. fusca  consimilis Lee.
118.
A.fervida  Blanch nee Fahr.
is L. obesa Lee.
119.
A. jnncticollis Blanch is a race of fusca.
120.
A.fervens  Blanch nee Gyll.
is congrua Lee.
121.
A. uniformis Blanch is L. ephelida Sa.
122.
A. pruinosa J Blanch nee Mels.
 L. futilis Lee.
123.
A. fraterna Harris correct.
124.
A. KNOCHii Gyll.
 correct for one 9 sexual characters as in PROFUNDA rugosa Lee..
Under the same label are two specimens of another species allied to prunina.
125.
A. crenulata  Blanch is L. hirticula Knoch.
126.
A. CRASsissiMA Blanch is a short stout species from Texas  the  sexual characters as in fusca 9 with last ventral segment semicircularly incised at tijD  obesa Lee.
127.
A. GLABERRiMA Blanch.
My determination Synopsis Journ.
Acad.
iSTat.
Sc.
1. c. 242 is correct.
128.
A.micansX Blanch nee Knoch two 9 which seem to be L. CERASiNA Lee.
or an allied species.
129.
A. DiFFiNis Blanch.
A very distinct species   with the fixed spur of hind tibise elongated and last ventral segment not impressed  antennal club very long.
130.
A. iiiRSUTA Knoch correct.
131.
A. pilosicolis Knoch is the race of L. tristis Fabr.
 with the pubescence of the elytra longer than usual.
132.
Cremastociiilus IIarrisii Kirby Mus.
Oxon.
has the prothorax shining the front angles are rounded and auriculate the sides are deeply impressed behind the front angles  the hind angles are not much retracted surrounded by a deep sulcus there is a patch of hair on the disk each side in front of the hind angles  the mentuni is deeply notched behind.
133.
My notes on Buprcstidai from the types of Gory and Laporte now in the collection of Count Mniszech in Paris have been parti' utilized by Mr. Crotch in his Notes on the species of Buprestida found in the Lnited States Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Phil.
1873 p. 84.
But it remains for me here to express the great obligations I am under to Count Mniszech and to the other possessors of types which 1 had occasion to study for the facilities for comparison and the great joersonal kindness extended to me during my short visits to the larger cities of Europe 134.
DiCERCA OBSCURA Fobr.
Lee.
is B. lurida and consimilis Gor and Laporte.
135.
D. hilaris Lee.
9  manca Lee.
  is tuberculata G. and L. 136.
D. DISTINGUENDA G. and L. is colored like hilaris but stouter with the hind angles of prothorax less prolonged probablj' a bright  specimen of D. tenebrosa Kirb3 137.
D. PRUiNOSA G. and L. resembles lurida but the prothorax is slightly wider behind middle tibiae  obtusely angulated on inner side  soror Lee.
138.
D. obscura J Gory is baltimorensis Herbst.
Lee.
139.
D. scoBiNA Chevr.
is molitor Mels.
and asperata L. and G. 140.
D. SPRETA G. and L. is imjjjessifrons Mels.
141.
D. TUBERCULATA Chevr.
is Dumoulinii Gory  the prothorax is widely dilated on the sides as in crassicollis Lee and the disk is deeply excavated obliquel' each side the markings are irregular as in scobina.
142.
JD.
coryphsea .
Dej.
is a very large southern form of spreta.
143.
D. maculosa 4Gory is lepida Lee.
144.
D. erect a L. and G. is PECIL0N0Ta cyanipes Say.
145.
Ancylochira dilatata Motscli.
is lviventris Lee.
146.
A. crenata Motsch.
is Langii Mann.
141.
A. villosa n. sp.
Elytra like aurulenta prothorax flattened side margin thickened disk with a broad dorsal stripe and oblique space each side smooth  prothorax and under surface thinly clothed with long soft white hair.
California coll.
Mniszech.
148.
A. AFRICANS Ilerbst.
A specimen was collected by Lorquin in California.
149. llelayiophila luteosignata Dej.
is a small variety' of notata with more convex prothorax.
150.
Anthaxia bivittata L. and G. Not in our collections  nearly as elongate as flavimana.
151.
A.yENEOGASTER L. and GAsexpansa 9 audfoveicollis  Lee.
152.
Chrysobotiiris errans L. and G. is very near cupro.enea L. and G. oni Cajenne and is probably from South America.
153.
C. Alabamse Gor is similar to the ordinary race of femoRATA but the prothorax is more narrowed behind and more deeply channelled  C. nigritula Gory is similar but more deeply punctured.
C difficihs Gory is also similar but with the hinder impression of the elj'tra more siuuated and is  rugosiceps Mels.
154.
C. ignipes Gory is sexsignata Say.
155.
G. Germari Gorseems to be a varietof the Mexican C. Solieri and has not occurred thus far in the United States.
156.
C. femorata Fabr.
coll.
Dej.
is vii'idiceps Mels.
151.
G. viridipunctata Gory is a variety of hybernata in which the metallic green spot at the base of the elytra extends be3'ond the impression.
158.
G.fioricola Gory is calcarata Mels.
and emorato  L. and G. 159.
G. riigosula Gory is Actenodes acornis Say.
160.
Actenodes bella Lee.
does not differ from aureonotata Gory found in Cuba and South America  the locality of the specimen collected in Georgia is absolutely correct.
161.
G. basalis Lee.
is atabalipa Gory and Golobagaster mxilti.
stigmosa Mann.
162.
C. Lesueurt Gorj is so7'or Lee.
163.
G.fastidiosa Gory is Lesueiwi J Lee.
164.
G. quadriipressa Qory misella Lee.
is a small variety of this species.
165.
G. nigrofasciata  Lee Tr.
Am.
Phil.
Soc xi. 240 is quite different from the Mexican species and from melazona Gory  it may therefore be named atrifasciata.
166.
Folycesta obtusa Lee.
seems to be velasco L. and G.  there is an error in the reference to the plate in my paper it should be fig.
6 not 7. 
67.
AcMEODERA MIMA Gor3 is semivittata Lee.
168.
A. PULCiiELLA Ilerbst.
Gory and dispar Gory are 1.
variegata and mixta Lee.
169.
A. STELLARis Chcvr.
is rubronotata Gory hsemorrhoa Lee. and faaciatopunctata Chevr.
170.
A. FLAVOSTicTA .
Sturm is croceonotata  Lee.
171.
A. cupRiNA Spin.
 two specimens were collected in Califoinia by Lorquin one of which was kindl' given to me by Count Mniszech.
172.
Mastooenius Solicr is the same as Haplostethus Lee.
173.
CoR.EBUS CALiQiNOSus Gory is a South American species.
174.
Agrilus nigricans Gory size of ruficollis finely punctured hind angles of thorax scarcely carinate.
175.
A. PULCHELLTJS Bland I saw a specimen of this species from Texas in tlie collection of Mr. Perroud at Lyons  and in the same collection I saw two new species 1 larger than acutiPENNis bronzed coarsely punctured hind angles of prothorax acutel carinated  2 larger and stouter than mutigus Lee more shining bright green.
176.
A. Couesii Lee.
is aureus Chevr.
and perlucidus Gory.
177.
A. ZEMES Gory  is quadriguttatus Gory 9.
178.
Brachys corvina Gory is lugubris Lee.
179.
B. TESSELATA Fabr.
is lvicauda Lee according to Gory.
180.
B. PRiETEXTA Gory is the small black species resembling TESSELATA.
181.
Phlegon herculeanus Lacordaire is South American and must therefore be stricken from the List.
182.
Adelocera sparsa Cand. quite distinct not uncommon in California.
183.
A. PROFUSA Cand. is cavicoUis Lee.
184.
Meristhus scobinula Cand.
The Chinese specimens have the scutellum very strongly and acutely carinate in the Mexican it is finely carinate and in both the sides of the prothorax and the basal edge are 7iot serrate.
185.
Alaus gorgops Lee.
is El.
lusciosus Hope Griff.
An.
Kingd. 363 pi.
31.
186.
Perimecus similis Kirby size of M. communis but a little narrower  prothorax more coarsely and sparsely punctured scarcely impressed behind  third joint of antennae nari'ower and shorter than fourth about twice as long but scarcely wider than Second  hind angles of prothorax bicarinate.
187.
Melanactes piceus.
In the Oxford Museum I saw two specimens from the Lee collection labelled E. aterrimus Fabr.
and one E. lacunosus Fabr.
188.
Odontonyx.
There is a beautiful species of this genus from China in the Oxford Museum in which the  has the antennse ramose.
189.
Telepiiorus mandibularis Kirby is the smaller black species with the prothorax more convex and feebly channelled and the lustre obscured by very fine hairs.
T. fraxini Say is larger and has the prothorax more polished and more deeply' impressed.
190.
Dasytes foveicollis Kirby belongs to Psilothrix.
191.
TilluH picipennis White B. M.
Cat. from India is the cosmopolitan Tausostenus univittatus.
192.
Hydnocera rufipes Newra.
is a beautiful blue species of the same form as iiumeralis with the elytra very coarsely but not densel punctured mouth antennae and legs bright reddish3ellow.
193.
H. iEQRA Newm.
Quite distinct from anspecies in our collections.
The protliorax is narrowed behind constricted at each end  el'tra shining strongly' punctured.
194.
Driamerls Solier from Chili resembles strouglj' and is perhaps congeneric with Melyris cribratus Lee.
195.
The Australian genus Omma Newm.
is evidentlallied to CuPES especially to C serrata Lee and is one of those curious examples of geographical distribution of which we have already' instances in Derataphrus Nyctoporis and Tmesiphorus.
A species of Cupes occurs in Japan which on the other hand resembles C. CONCOLOR from the Atlantic States.
19G.
Stagetus Wollaston should be compared with Protheca Lee.
Tlie resemblances between the Coleopterous fauna of Xorth America and the Atlantic Islands are neither few nor unimportant.
197.
Lebasiella pallipes King is JiigrijDennis Lee a Mexican species to be stricken from the list.
198.
Nyctipetus.
One of the most extraordinary instances that I have noticed of resemblance whicli if connected by geographical coincidence would be termed mimicr' is between a Cliilian species of this genus living in arid plains and Amphizoa LecoNTEi Matthews a subaquatic adephage found in Vancouver and Utah.
199.
Emeax sculpturatus Pascoe from Australia is a species of Nyctoporis barelj different from N. galeata Lee which is found at San Diego California by the humeri heingnof denlij'orin though the hind angles of the prothorax are rectangular and prominent.
200.
Pleodes tuberculata Mann is viator Lee.
201.
Eleodes subluberculata Walker is granulata Lee.
202.
E. latiuscula Walker is humeralis Lee.
203.
E. binotata Walker is sponsa Lee.
204.
E. conjnnefa and conveoricoUis Walker are obscura Say.
205.
Exercstus liates is Khinaxdrus Lee.
1862 E. Janaoni Bates is K. elongatus Horn from Nicaragua.
20fi.
Pohjpleurus geminatus Dej.
according to the tjpes in Mr. F. Bates's collection is the smaller species Avith narrower prothorax.
20t.
According to Mr. F.Bates the genera Calcar Zolodinus and Centorus are exceptions to the ordinary structure of the ventral segments in the allied genera the hind margin of the segments not being membranous but entirely corneous as in Asidida.
208.
Tenebrio castaneus as pointed out to me by Mr. Bates agrees with the genera just named in the ventral segments being entirel corneous but is peculiar in having the eyes completely divided by the eyes as in Blapstinus.
It evidently indicates a new genus to be associated with the others as a distinct tribe CalCARINI.
209.
Pachyurgus iEREUS Mels.
seems to be Encyaleslhes hrevicornis Motsch. found in Java Gilola Malaysia  it is therefore to be stricken from the list.
210.
Ephalus Lee.
does not in the least resemble Leichenum with which.it is united by Gemminger and Harold.
211.
RuiPiDANDRUS Lee.
I have seen a species from Guadaloupe in the collection of Mr. Salle to whom I am indebted for the remark that Melolontha paradoxa Beauv.
is the same as R. fiabellicornis.
Vide No.
lOG.
212.
IcTiSTYGMA Pascoc from Australia seems hardly different from EURYGENIUS.
213.
Isghalia Pascoe 1860 is Eupleurida Lee.
18G2.
The North American species dift'ers from the Bornean one chiefly in color the latter being of a uniform indigo color while the former is black and yellow.
214.
Macr atria linearis Newm.
The base of the prothorax is not narrower than the widest part in front of the middle and the species does not seem to differ from the common M. murina.
215.
EusTROPHUS BicoLOR.
The proper authority for this species is Sa' the first describer Mycetophogua bicolor Fabr.
is probabl' a Platyderaa.
215a.
ScRAPTiA.
Several allied foreign genera have the eyes hairy like Xdophilus Stereopalpus etc.
21 G. Anaspis collaris Lee.
should be compared with the European A. RUFICOLLIS.
217.
Toposcopus Lee.
I saw in the collection of Mr. Fry an Australian species of this genus and also a new genus having like it divided e3'es but of broader form with the.
ramus of third antennal joint as long as the others.
218.
Meloe impressa Kirby the prothorax is a little longer than broad dull sparsely ijunctured elytra deeply rugose  color dark blue   with the antenuffi irregular.
219.
M. NIGRA Kirb'.
Quite different prothorax shorter more convex more punctured head also more punctured elytra less deeply rugose abdomen extremely finely rugose color nearly black.
220.
Apate Lepisomus rufijpennis and nigiHceps Kirby are specimens of Polygraphus.
221.
A.
Z.
brevicornis Kirby is in such bad condition as to be not recognizable.
222.
Cerambycid.
My notes on this famil' have been employed in the parts of the classification Xew Species and List of North America Coleoptera relating to this family with the exception of the few here detailed.
228.
Clytus decorus Oliv.
Oxford Museum  a species of Cyllene not in our collections.
224.
Clytus carinatus Gory.
Oxford Museum.
Not in our collections  perhaps South American.
225.
Clytus compressicollis Gory like verrucosus but with protliorax much more compressed and elevated perhaps an individual variation.
226.
Clytus antennatus White Brit.
Mus.
Cat. 252 is Arliojyalus eurystefhus Lee.
227.
Phyton pallidum Say.
A specimen in the British Museum is labelled maculatum Oliv.
Saperdabut it agrees so little with the description that we are not warranted in adoiting the S3nonymy.
228.
Stenaspis unicolor Dupont is Cer.
solitarius Say.
229.
Elaphidion arctum Newm.
is the common small narrow species with the antennal spines short and the el'tral spines long and was considered by Dejean as E. villosum Fabr.
230.
E. villosum Fabr.
Newm.
is putator Peck pruinosuni jDej.
Gurin.
231.
Agminopsis Thomson is Talxopora .TfQ. Adetus Lee.
The type given me by Dr. Melsheimer PoLYOPSiA analis Hald.
is Brazilian and not North American.
232.
Psenocerus supernotatus Say.
 Acharis lunifera fDej.
33T ON TWO NEW SPECIES OF SATIRODONTID.
BY E. D. COPE A.M. PORTHEUS LESTRIO Cope.
Represented by a portion of the cnminm including both mandibnlar rami and the maxillar' and premaxillary bones of one side all with dentition nearly complete.
The size of these parts considerably exceeds that of corresponding ones in the tAvo other species of the genus and indicates a large and powerful fish.
It differs from the P. molossus and P. thaumas in having three premaxillary teeth instead of two and in the relative positions numbers and sizes of the other teeth  also in the prominent edentulous superior distal extremity of the dentary bone.
The first premaxillary is very large the two others of moderate size.
These are followed by a long rugose diastema before the maxillary teeth begin these are one small five large twentytwo small and eleven or twelve very small.
The mandibular teeth are one very large one immense one small one medium four small eight large and two small  total eighteen.
The teeth are all simply round or oval in section and the external probabl'' cementum layer is smooth.
The maxillary bone has two large superior proximal cond3des separated by a space  the anterior is the narrower and is directly behind the premaxillary condyle.
The anterior margin of the latter bone is very rugose.
M. Length of tooth line of upper jaw 300   premaxillary 058 Depth premaxillary axial . 
maxillary at second condyle   twentieth tooth Diameter base first premaxillary tooth . 
bases five large maxillaries Length of dentary above .
...
Depth at second large tooth . 
at last tooth Diameter base first large tooth   second  Length crown of second large tooth   sixth from behind .095 .095 .065 .018 .053 .270 .095 .105 .013 .020 .050 .025 ' See Proceedings Am.
Philosophical Society On Fishes of the Kansas Cretaceous January 1872.
If of the same proportions as the P. violossus the vertical diameter of the head of this fish would be twentythree inches.
A complete cranium of a Po7iheus probably the P. molossus for which I am indebted to my friend Professor Merrill of Lincoln University at Topeka Kansas furnishes several points of interest previouslj' unknown.
The moutii is nearly vertical somewhat as in Osmei'oides while the vertex is surmounted by an elevated crest.
Hence the superior and inferior facial outlines meet at a riglit angle at the muzzle.
The orbit is small and there is a suborbital chain of laminiform bones.
The elevation of the skull is 16.75 inches while the length is only 12.75 inches.
The specimen of P. leatris was procured by Professor B. F. Mudge of Manhattan Kansas during his survey of 1872 near the Solomon River.
Prof. Merrill's specimen was obtained from the same region.
PORTHEUS GLADIUS Cope.
Established on a spine of the kind which I have supposed to be pectoral and which resembles one I have described loc.
cit. p. 382 as from P. molossus or P. thaumas.
It is however relatively much thicker than that one and absolutely much larger and might pertain to the P. leitris but there is no evidence to that effect.
When complete the spine measured according to Professor Mudge fort3'one inches in length  the portion now before me measures thirt'one inches.
The margin is exceedingly acute and is coated with an enamellike layer Avhich conceals the rods of which the spine is composed.
'ear the middle of its length these rods number thirty but whether the entire width is preserved is uncertain.
The transverse section is a crescent from the base to beyond the middle the surface being thus somewhat troughlike.
The spine has been somewhat distorted by pressure but I cannot discover that the form in question is entirely due to that cause.
The edge is excavated and notched at irregular points indicating the frequent use to which this formidable weapon was put during the life of its possessor.
M. Total length rrfe Mudge 1040 Width near middle I''J Thickness posteriorly in middle 012 Discovered by Prof. Mudge near the upper waters of the Solomon River Kansas.
DAPTINUS Cope gen. nov.
This genus is proposed for the Samoce2halusphlebotomus Cope.
The form of the crowns of the teeth is that of Samoceph.alus and Ei'isichthe but it difters from the latter in their perfect equality of size.
It differs from the former in the position of the nutritious foramina of the inner side of the dentary bone for instead of forming an independent series as in that genus the only appear as notches on the inner margins of the alveoli.
But one species is known as above which is from the Niobrara cretaceous of Kansas.
