OF THE Academy of Natural Sciences OF Volume LVI 1904 philadelphia : The Academy of Natural Sciences LOGAN SQUARE 1904-1905 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Febeuary 1, 1905.
I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1904 have been mailed as follows : — Pages 132 mailed February 3364.. 65-112.. 113-160., 161-208.. 209-256.. 257-320.. 321-400.. 401-432.. 433-464.. 465-512.. 513-560.. 561-576.. 577-600.. 601-632.. 633-680.. 681-744.. 745-760.. 761-824.. 825-840.. February March March March April May May June June July August August October October November December January January February EDVVARD J. NOLAN, Recording Secretary 1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1904.
1905.
1905.
1905.
PUBLICATION committee: Henry Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, Edward J. Nol.an, M.D., The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ex-officio.
EDITOR : Edavard J. Nolan, M.D.
1 I 1 L CONTENTS.
For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index, Banks, Nathan.
The Arachnicla of Florida (Plates VII, VIII), 120 Brown, Arthur Erwin.
Post-glacial Nearctic Centers of Dispersal for Reptiles, 464 Casteel, Dana Brackenridge, Ph.D.
The Cell-Lineage and Early I^arval Development of Fiona marina, a Nudibranchiate Molliisk (Plates XXI-XXXV), 325 Chamberlin, Ralph V. New Chilopods 651 Chapman, Henry C, M.D.
Observations on Tupaia, with Reflections on the Origin of Primates (Plates IX, X), .
148 Observations on Hyrax, 476 Cockerell, T. D. a.
The Roses of Pecos, New Mexico, .
.
.
108 Fielde, Adele M. Three Odd Incidents in Ant-Life, .... 639 Fielde, Adele M., and George H. Parker.
The Reactions of Ants to Material Vibrations, 642 Fowler, Henry W. Notes on the Characinidse, 119 New, Little Known and Typical Berycoid Fishes, .... 222 Description of a New Race of Notropis chalybseus from New Jersey (Plate XVII), 239 Notes on Fishes from Arkansas, Indian Territory and Texas, 242 New, Rare or Little Known Scombroids, No.
1 (Plate LI), .
757 GuLiCK, Addison.
The Fossil Land Shells of Bermuda (Plate XXXVI), 406 Harshberger, John W., Ph.D.
The Comparative Age of the Different Floristic Elements of Eastern North America, 601 Heath, Harold.
The Larval Eye of Chitons, 257 Keeley, F. J.
A Spencer Objective, 475 Keller, Ida.
Summer Activity of ^ome Spring Flowers, .
.
481 Monks, Sarah P. Variability and Autonomy of Phataria (Plate XLII), 596 11 Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., Ph.D. Descriptions of North American Aranese of the Families Lycosidse and Pisauridffi (Plates XVIII, XIX, XX), .
.'
.
261 The Development and Structure of the Larva of Paragordius (Plates XLIX, L), 738 Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. New Polychseta from California (Plates XXXVII, XXXVIII), 484 Sexual Polymorphism in Annelids, 685 Description of a New Species of Earth-worm from Georgia, 803 Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D., and Katherine J. Busch.
Sabcllidifi and Serpulidse from Japan (Plates XI, XII), .... 157 Nelson, James A., Ph.D.
The Early Development of Dinophilus: A Study in Cell-Lineage (Plates XLIIIXLVIII), 687 Oberholser, Harry C. A Monograph of the Genus Dendrocincla Gray, 447 PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D.
New Japanese Marine Mollusca: Gastropoda (Plates IVI), 5 New Japanese Marina Mollusca: Pclecypoda (Plates XXXIX, XL, XLI), 550 New Clausiliidse of the Japanese Empire, X (Plates LIILVII), 809 Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., and Y. Hirase.
Descriptions of New Land Snails of the Japanese Empire, 616 Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., and E. G. Vanatta.
On Certain Rhachiglossate Gastropoda Eliminated from the Aquillidffi, 592 Rehn, James A. G. Studies in the Orthoptcrous Family Phasmidse, 38 A Study of the Mammalian Genus Chilonycteris, .
.
.
.
181 A Study of the Bats of the Genus Dermonotus (Pteronotus auct.
), 250 A Revision of the Mammalian Genus Macrotus, 427 Notes on Orthoptera from Northern and Central Mexico, .
.
513 Notes on Orthoptera from Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado, 562 Studies in the Orthopterous Subfamilies Acrydiinee (Tettiginae), Eumastacinse and Proscopina?, 658 Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard.
The Orthoptera of Thomas County, Georgia, and Leon County.
Florida.
774 Ill Sharp, Bexjamin, and Hexry W. Fowler.
The Fishes of Nantucket, 504 Stevens, N. M. On the Germ Cells and the Embryology of Planariasimplissima (Plates XIII-XVI), 208 Stone, Witmer.
Notes on a Collection of Calif ornian Mammals, 586 Stone, Witmer, and A. S. Bunnell.
On a Collection of Birds and Mammals from Mount Sanhedrin, California, .
.
576 Wetherill, Henry Emerson, M.D.
A New Centrifuge, .
.
.
685 Some Practical Color-Tests, 772 1904.
January 5.
Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : Library.
— Dr. C. N. Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Henry C. Chapman, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., and Benjamin Sharp, M.D.
Publications.
— Henry Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D., Witmer Stone, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D.
Instruction and Lectures.
— Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, Charles Morris, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. N. Peirce.
Finance.
— Isaac J. Wistar, William Sellers, John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon and the Treasurer.
Committee of Council on By-Laws.
— Isaac J. Wistar, Arthur E. Brown, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., and John Cadwalader.
1 Henry C. Chapman, M.D., presented a coinniunication entitled "Observations on Tupaia ferruginea, "with reflections on the Origin of Primates."
The PubHcation Committee reported that the following communications had been received: "Studies in the Orthopterous Family Phasmidse," by James A. G. Rehn.
(December 12, 1903.)
*'A Collection of Fishes from Sumatra/' by Henry W. Fowler.
(December 23, 1903.)
"The Roses of Pecos, New Mexico," by T. D. A. Cockerell.
(December 24, 1903.)
The following were accepted for publication: NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA : GASTROPODA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The new species of Gastropoda contained in recent sendings from Mr. Y. Hirase are herein described.
The material studied contains a large number of species previously not known from Japanese waters, which I hope to enumerate in a future paper.
Some shells from a collection made in Sagami Bay for the Academy, by Miss A. C. Hartshorne, are also included in this account.
TEREBRID^.
Terebra hedleyi n. sp.
PI.
I, figs, l, la.
Shell slender, the length about 05 times the diameter, solid, whitish, marked sparsely with brown dots on the cinguli and with streaks below them, the last whorl with some dots or spots in a circular row on the base.
Sculpture consisting of a wide above a narrower tuberculate cord, occupying somewhat more than half the total width of the whorl, below these cinguli there are four small equal spiral cords, the lowest one partly covered at the suture.
On the last whorl these cords gradually diminish downward, those on the periphery and base being small and very low or subobsolete.
The growth-strise are oblique on the cinguli, arcuate on the cords below them.
WTiorls 15J, the first large and globose, first l-ismooth and gray-white.
The last whorl abruptly contracts below, and is produced in a short anterior canal.
Aperture small, irregularly rhombic, the outer lip thin and sinuous, columella vertical, abruptly bent to the left below, covered with a glossy white callous, which extends over the parietal wall.
Length 33.6, diam.
6 mm.
; length of aperture 6 mm.
; diam.
of the first whorl 1 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,946, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,412 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to T. serotina A. and R., and the closely allied or identical T. mariesi Sm., but it is not costate below the tuberculate bands, and the protoconch is very much larger.
Named in honor of Charles Hedley, of the Australian Museum.
Terebra Mzenensis n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
2, 2^.
Shell slender with straight lateral outlines, wliite, lustcrless.
Whorls 15|-, nearly flat, the first two smooth, the first whorl rather globose and convex.
Sculpture of ratlier strong, even, slightly arcuate rounded ribs, about 21 in number on the last whorl, and nearly as wide as their intervals.
These ribs are cut but not interrupted by a spiral groove defining a subsutural fasciole, the groove being deeper in the interstices.
Below the groove or furrow there are 6 to 8 spiral cords, low on the summits of the ribs, stronger in the intervals; and above the furrow there are 4 or 5 finer spiral threads.
The suture is rather deeply impressed.
The small aperture is irregularly trapezoidal; columella vertical; canal recurved.
Length 26, diam.
6, longest axis of aperture 6 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,993, A. X. S. P., from Xp.
1,529 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Similar to T. suhtextilis Smith in color and sculpture, but in specimens of the same length this species is broader with a larger aperture.
Terebra awajiensis n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
3, 3a.
Shell straightly acuminate, rather slender, the diameter contained about 4f times in the length.
The upper half of each whorl is brownish cream-tinted, the lower half purplish or reddish-brown, usually paler or fading toward the suture below.
The last whorl has a supraperipheral purple-brown band, sharply defined on its upper edge, paler and fading below, where it is interrupted by light streaks.
It extends as far as the basal contraction, but just below the periphery is divided by a narrow whitish spiral band.
Sculpture of rather acute, nearly vertical riblets, which bend forward a little below, and on the last whorl are distinctly bent forward, and gradually diminish do'wnward, disappearing at the subperipheral' light band.
The ribs are pale and interrupt the dark band.
The intervals are concave and wider than the ribs, without spiral striation, but the whole surface shows faint growth-lines.
Slightly below the upper third each whorl is cut by a spiral furrow interrupted by the ribs, leaving an oblong pit in each interval (but in some specimens the furrow is continuous though weak over the ribs).
The pits are first developed on the 8th or 9th whorl, those above having no trace of the sulcus.
"WTiorls about 18, the first 3 smooth, the apical whorl purple-black and having a diameter of about .3 mm.
; subsequent whorls nearly flat, parted by a narrow, impressed suture, the last whorl rounded peripherally, strongly contracted below.
Siphonal fasciole short and convex, bounded above by a low and inconspicuous ridge.
Aperture a little less than onefourth the length of the shell, acuminate above, with a deep'and wide basal channel.
Columella browTi, with a low, wide and very indistinct basal fold, below which it is bent somewhat to the left.
Parietal wall covered with a thin transparent varnish.
Length 37, diam.
8 mm.
; length of aperture S.8 mm.
; 21 ribs on last whorl.
Length 35, diam.
7.3 mm.
; length of aperture 8.7 mm.
; 25"ribs on last whorl.
Fukura, Awaji.
Types No.
86,004, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,352 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is close to T. nitida Hinds in sculpture, but it is less slender, and the last whorl is more swollen peripherally and more contracted beneath.
It differs from T. lischkeana in the smooth intercostal spaces.
Parviterebra paucivolvis n. sp.
PL I, fig.
4.
Shell lanceolate, moderately solid, white with four spiral series of squarish red-brown spots, the upper series bordering the suture below, two others at the periphery, and the fourth on the base.
The suture is widely gray-margined by transparence.
Sculpture of close, fine, rounded longitudinal riblets, as wide as their intervals, and on the last whorl much smaller, almost obsolete.
These are crossed by spiral subpunctate impressed lines, which are rather widely spaced.
W^iorls 7, but slightly convex, the last, as seen from the front, longer than the spire, gradually tapering dowmward.
Aperture lanceolate, the columellar margin but slightly concave.
Length 12, diam.
3.4 mm.
Length 11.5, diam.
3 mm.
Yakujima, Osumi.
Types No.
86,133, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,419 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species seems most closely related to the Australian Euryta hrazieri Angas, which, however, has a larger aperture.
Also to E. pulchella Angas (Terebra angasi Try on) and E. trilineata Angas, both of which differ in details of form and coloration.
The small Japanese T. tantilla Smith is diversely sculptured and belongs to a different section.
The Australian species mentioned are placed in the subgenus Euryta by Angas and Tryon, but they are not related to the tj^e of Euryta (now Mazatlania).
I propose for them the genus Parviterebra, characterized by the small number of whorls, absence of any groove defining a subsutural band, and by the long, gradually tapering body-whorl without a differentiated siphonal fasciole at the base, the columella straight to its abrupt truncation below.
This genus is not closely related to Terehra or the subgenus Mazatlania, but seems to belong to the Terebridce.
The Japanese species defined above is the t3'pe of this group.
CONIDuE.
Conus dorinitor n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
9, 9a.
Shell rather narrow and long, the diameter somewhat more than ^ the length, the spire elevated, concave-sided, \ the length of the shell.
The apex is broken off, 11 whorls remaining, the peripheral angle of each projecting above the sutiu'e.
The last 2^ are even at the periphery, but tho^e preceding are nodulose.
The concave, steeply sloping upper surface of each whorl is closely and regularly, finely costulate, the riblets arcuate, and decussated by several unequal spiral shallow grooves.
The last whorl has almost straight lateral outlines, and is sculptured with closely punctate spiral grooves, very faint near the angle of the whorls, but becoming stronger and closer toward the base.
The siphonal fasciole is closely spirally striate, not punctate.
The aperture is long, narrow, and of equal width throughout.
Length 44, diam.
16 mm.
; aperture 34 mm.
long.
Kikai, Osumi, in a deposit probably Pliocene.
Types No.
85,950, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,552 of IMr.
Hirase's collection.
This cone is related to C. acutangulus Lam., but is longer than that species.
C. aculeiformis Rve.
is similar in shape, but differs in sculpture.
The specimens show no color.
Conus kikaiensis n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
S, 8a.
Shell long and narrow, the diameter al^out one-third the length, the elevated and slightly concave-sided spire one-fourth the length.
Whorls remaining 10, nearly fiat and steeply sloping, the smooth peripheral angle projecting a little alcove the suture, the surface above it sculptured with 3 to 5 low, unequal spiral cords, and fine, arcuate growth-lines.
I^ateral outlines of the last whorl nearly straight.
Sculptm^e of regular, rather strong, narrow spiral grooves, which are somewhat striate across, weaker aljove.
There are 23-25 of these grooves alcove the convex siphonal fasciole, which is indistinctly finel}striate spirally.
In some specimens the ffat intervals between the grooves are divided in the middle b}a smaller groove.
Length 40-41, diam.
13 mm.
Kikai, Osumi; fossil in a Pliocene (?)
deposit.
Types No.
85,948, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,553 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is not unlike C. dormitor and C. aculeiformis in general shape, but it differs essentially from both in the sculpture of the spire.
The outer lip is a good deal damaged in lioth of the specimens received.
Conns gratacapii n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
10, 10a.
Shell_ slender and lengthened, the diameter somewhat exceeding one-third of the length, the high straight-sided spire occupying twofifths the length of the shell.
Apex broken.
12 whorls remaining are fiat, with the smooth peripheral angle immediately above the suture, but scarcely projecting, a little more prominent on the upper than on the lower whorls.
The surface of each whorl is a trifle concave, and sculptured with about 6 low, unequal spiral cords.
Below the peripheral angle the last whorl is sculptured with about 25 spiral grooves, weaker above, stronger and closer below; and the growth-striae curve strongly backward near the angle.
The aperture is very narrow, and of equal width throughout, and two-thirds as long as the shell.
Length 30, diam.
11 mm.
; length of aperture 20 mm.
Length 31, diam.
11.5 mm.
; length of aperture 20.3 mm.
Kikai, Osumi, in a Pliocene (?)
deposit.
Types No.
85,947, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,554 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This peculiar species resembles C. kikaiensis in sculpture, but is unlike that in form.
It is named for Mr. L. P. Gratacap, of the American Museum of Natural History.
PLBUROTOMID^.
Drillia streptonotus n. sp.
PI.
Ill, figs.
18, 18a, 186.
Shell slender and turrite, solid, light brown with an obscure band below the suture and another on the base.
Sculpture of regular, subvertical rounded folds as wide as their intervals, about IS in number on the last whorl, wdiere they disappear a short distance below the periphery.
These are crossed by numerous spiral threads, alternately larger and smaller, but on the lower, contracted half of the last whorl the spirals are regular and equal.
Under a strong lens the whole surface is seen to be covered with densely crowded rows of minute papillae.
Whorls 9^, strongh^ convex.
The first wiiorl is smooth and rounded; then an acute peripheral keel begins, and a whorl and a half later low radial sculpture and fine papillae appear.
The first two or three sculptured whorls are angular, the keel persisting to the end in the peripheral thread.
Aperture flask-shaped, wider above, the outer lip with about 6 small teeth within, arranged in pairs; deeply excised above, and produced in a short recurved spout at the anal sinus; contracted below to form a short siphonal canal.
Length 8.8, diam.
2.8 mm.
; length of aperture 3 nun.
Length 6.9, diam.
2.3 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
86,128, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,4166 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Distinct by its turrite shape, convex whorls and spout-like anal sinus, and the beautiful minute sculpture, hardly visible without a compound microscope.
Drillia albiguttata n. sp, PI.
III.
fig.
19.
This species, of which only more or less beach-worn specimens have been received, is extremely similar to D. zebra Lam.
of the West Indies.
It is somewhat more slender.
The ground color is chocolate.
The sculpture consists of thick longitudinal ribs, 12 on the last whorl, each with a white spot at the shoulder, another below the middle of the last whorl, and there is a white band around the siphonal fasciole.
There is a seam-like welt below the suture, and the unworn intervals between the ribs are scul]'>tured with alternately large and small spiral cords.
Whether these pass over the ribs or not cannot be ascertained from the examples examined.
The lip and anal sinus are like those parts in D. zebra.
Length 11, diam.
4.5 mm.
Seto, Kii.
Types Xo.
86,122, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
1,349 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Daphnella radula n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
17, 17a.
Shell fusiform, rather solid, pale brown, indistinctly mottled with white and marked with short brown lines on the larger spiral cords, a series of alternately white and brown squarish spots below the suture.
Surface sharply sculptured with alternate spiral cords and threads, about 52 in all on the last whorl, intersected by fine raised longitudinal threads, prominent where they cross the spirals.
The lower edge of the anal fasciole is defined by a sulcus slightly unlike the other intervals, where the growih-lines bend abruptly backward.
Wliorls 8, the first two brown, with the usual diagonallj^ intersecting grooves of Daphnella, the next whorl with three spirals.
Last whorl long, tapering above and below.
Aperture more than half the shell's length.
Outer lip thick but beveled to an edge, obHquely and deeply excised above, a little sinuated near the base.
The anterior channel is short and rather shallow.
Length 13.5, diam.
5 mm.
; length of aperture 7.7 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
85,965, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
903a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The shell of this species is thick, like that of Daphnella maculosa Pse.
; but it is noticeably wider than that, with a more ample aperture and entirely different coloration.
Mangilia pura n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
15, 15a.
Shell fusiform, rather thin, cream-white, indistinctly stained wdth brown in some places below the suture.
Sculpture of curved, sHghtly sinuous, rounded longitudinal ribs, slightly narrow^er than their concave intervals, and about 21 in number on the last whorl; the last rib much larger, forming a stout lip-varix.
These are crossed by many spaced spiral threads passing over ribs and intervals, and about 30 in number on the last whorl.
The intervals between these threads are sometimes divided by a secondary threadlet ; and there is throughout a very minute, even and regular granulation produced by the intersection of spiral and longitudinal striae .
Whorls about 8, the first two rounded, and Avith delicate spaced costulae, forming a trochoidal nucleus; the last whorl slightly ascending in front.
Aperture long and narrow, obtuse at the ends, smooth within, slightly retracted above.
Length 13, diam.
4.7 mm.
; length of aperture 7.7 mm.
Length 9.8, diam.
3.8 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,974, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,527 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species seems to be similar to M. cylindnca Reeve, but that shell is more slender.
Mangilia semicarinata n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
16, 16a.
Shell fusiform-turrit e, white with some brown stains beloAv the suture and a brown spot at the middle of the lip-varix; rather thin.
Sculpture of many slightlj^ oblique and arcuate longitudinal riblets about as wide as their inter^-als, and sixteen in number on the last whorl.
These are crossed by spaced spiral threads, about 18 from the shoulder down on the last whorl, a little widened where they pass over the riblets.
The spaces between the threads and above the shoulder are very finely striate spirally.
Whorls 7, the first 1^ rounded, radially weakly costulate, several whorls following convex, rounded, the last 2 or 3 whorls angular at the shoulder.
The last whoii bears a narrow, elevated, arcuate lip-varix.
Aperture narrow, both lips slightly arcuate; blunt at the ends, smooth within.
Anal sinus rather deep and rounded, the varix curving back of it.
Length 7, diam.
2.7 mm.
; length of aperture 2.7 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
86,124, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,520 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Mangilia kamakurana n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
11, lla.
Shell very small, white with a brown spot in the middle of the lipvarix, the spire terraced, lower half conic.
Sculpture of slightly (;urved obliquely longitudinal ribs.
11 on the last whorl, the last one, behind the lip, much larger.
These are crossed by spaced spiral threads, with smaller threads between them, the intervals still more finely striate spirally.
Whorls 5 (the embryonic ones broken off), strongly angular near the middle, flattened and sloping above the angle, contracting below it; the last whorl similarly angular, convex below the angle, contracted near the base.
Aperture oblong, the columellar margin concave above the middle.
Outer lip thick, with a moderately deep rounded sinus above; smooth within.
Length 4.7, diam.
2 mm.
Kamakura, Sagami.
Type No.
70,940, A. N. S. P. No.
71 ,025, from Japan, \\dthout exact locality, is the same species.
Mangilia cinnamomea peraffinis n. subsp.
PI.
II, fig.?.
12, I2a.
Shell stoutly fusiform, gloss}^, purple-brown, becoming flesh-colored at the anterior end, with a broad white band at the periphery, and three indistinct, equally spaced whitish bands on the sloping surface below it.
Sculpture of longitudinal ribs about half as wide as the concave intervals and 9 in number on the last whorl.
Whorls 7, those of the spire subangular in the middle, the first two whorls having delicate widely spaced riblets.
The last whorl is widest above but not angular, and tapers regularly downward.
The aperture is rather narrow, l^lunt at both ends.
The outer lip is slighth* retracted above and below, and has about 9 small teeth within, those in the middle rather indistinct.
The columella has about S slightly larger short transverse wrinkles.
Length 7, diam.
3 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85.952, A. N. S. P., from No.
1.519 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This pretty Ci/thara corresponds fairly well with M. cinnamomea Hinds^ except in color.
It differs from M. planilabrum Reevein having no angular projection of the lip above.
Mangilia (Cythara) hirasei n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
13, 13a.
Shell irregularly biconic, resembling M. decussata Pse.
and delacouriana Cr.
in shape; thick and solid; whitish, indistinctly marked with about 4 yellowish spots on the front slope of each rib, and corresponding brown spots on the lip-varix, and with a band composed of 4 to 6 1 Zool.
Voy.
"Sulphur;' PI.
9, fig.
1.
Conch.
Icon., Mangelia, PI.
6, fig.
43. purple-brown lines below the suture.
Sculpture of longitudinal rounded ribs parted by wider conca^^e intervals, and 10 or 11 in niunber on the last whorl.
The last rib is much larger and forms the lip-varix.
About 30 spiral threads, on the last whorl, cross the ribs and intervals, sometimes with minor threads between them.
The spaces between these threads are evenly granulose by the decussation of growth-lines and spiral striae, there being about four spiral series of granules in each interval.
Whorls 7+, the first 2\ smooth and romided, the rest subangular in the middle, the last whorl shouldered above, the shoulder rounded.
Aperture narrow.
Outer lip nearly straight, with about 8 white teeth within; columella white, with four or five small entering folds, increased to S or 10 at the margin, and with several on the parietal wall.
Length S, diam.
3.6 mm.
Length 7, diam.
3 mm.
Hirado.
Hizen.
Types No.
85,975, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,516 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species differs from ill. decussata and dciacouriana in its minute sculpture of regular, squarish granules.
Clathurella chichijimana n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
7, 7a, 76.
Shell small, solid, fusiform, graywhite with five black-brown and the same number of white longitudinal stripes on the ribs, sometimes continuous, sometimes dislocated.
Sculpture of 10 strong longitudinal ribs crossed by spiral threads which swell into tubercles on the ribs, and are 9 or 10 in number on the last whorl.
Whorls 7, the first 2h yellow, rounded, forming a trochiform protoconch, sculptured with vertical riblets decussated by delicate, obliquely forward-descending strise.
The junction of the protoconch and the sculptured shell is very obliciue and sharply defined.
Aperture narrow, with a deep sinus above.
Outer lip with four small teeth within.
Length 4, diam.
1.7 mm.
Chichijima.
Ogasawara.
Types No.
86,127, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,439 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species of the group of i^.
tincta is closely related to C. maculosa Pse., but differs in having the spirals conspicuously swollen where they cross the ribs.
C. dichroma Sturany is very similar, but whether it agrees in minor details cannot be known from the brief description, Clathurella centrosa n. sp.
PI.
I, figs.
6, 6a.
Shell small, fusiform, solid, white with a series of brown spots below the suture on alternate ribs, and a brown band on the base.
Sculpture of numerous longitudinal ribs slightly narrower than their intervals, and about 13 in number on the last whorl.
These are crossed by spiral cords, narrower than their intervals, of which there are 6 on the last whorl, followed by a costate space, as though a cord had been omitted, and then 4 more l^eaded, oblique cords on the narrow, lower part of the whorl.
Apex broken off, 4h whorls remaining, the last with a thick varix behind the outer lip.
Aperture narrow with two low teeth within the outer lip; anal sinus deep and rounded.
Length 4, diam.
1.9 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
86.125.
A. X. S. P., from No.
1,384 of ^Ir.
Hirase's collection.
Clathurella lischkeana n. sp.
PI.
II, figs.
14, 14a.
Shell turrite with rather Avide spire, solid and strong, orange-colored, with a black band below the suture terminating behind the lip-varix.
and an ill-defined brown band below the periphery.
There is also a black spot on each side of both the anal and the siphonal sinus.
Sculpture of strong, rounded longitudinal ribs about as wide as their concave intervals, strongest on the periphery and above, diminishing rapidly on the contracting base, and 9 in number on the last whorl, the last one much higher, more prominent and longer below, forming the lip-varix.
Rather coarse spiral cords pass over these ribs and their intervals, 4 or 5 of them visible on the penultimate whorl.
Wliorls about 6 besides the nucleus, which is broken from the specimens before me.
They are convex and separated by a deep suture.
Aperture small, widest in the middle, with a deep rounded sinus above, which is cut into the thick liiD-^'arix a short distance below the suture.
The outer lip has a large black-brown spot within below the sinus and another near the base, and there are several (usually 3) low teeth within.
Length 5.8, diam 2.5 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
85,957, A. N. S. P.. from No.
1,388 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This little orange-and-black species resembles Reeve's figure of his Pleurotoma nassoides, but it is only half the size of that, and is a conspicuously thick and solid shell, not, ''thin as though pellucid" or "semitransparent,"' as Reeve states of his nassoides.
MITRID^.
Mitra Mrasei n. sp.
PI.
Ill, figs.
21, 2la.
Shell thick-fusiform, solid, lusterless, or with two broad spiral bands and some longitudinal streaks of rose, the paler ground-color showing only in an ill-defined median band and some pale streaks.
Sculpture of narrow spiral ridges parted by wider intervals, and alternately smaller, the penultimate whorl with about 5 such primary spirals, last whorl with about 17 primary or larger and an equal number of smaller spirals (counted on the outer lip from suture to channel).
There are also some much finer spiral threads.
Longitudinal sculpture of rather wide-spaced grooves, cutting the spirals and intervals.
The larger spiral ridges are marked with a stippled or articulated line of brown.
Embryonic whorls wanting; subsequent whorls 7, convex, the last tapering to the base.
Aperture narrow, smooth inside; columellar side nearly straight, with 5 plaits.
Length 27, diam.
11 mm.
; length of aperture 17 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
85,994, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
902 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species may be closely related to Mitra helvacea Phil.
(Zeitschr.
/.
Malak., 1851, p. 84), but that species has not been identified or figured in more than half a century since its pubhcation, and the description is not conclusive.
M. pretiosa is a somewhat similar species with a much larger spire.
M. rufilirata A. and E,., Zool.
"Scmiarang," Moll., p. 26, PI.
10, fig.
26, is also very closely related, but it differs, apparently, in the more finely sculptured intervals between the spiral cords.
Thala ogasawarana n. sp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
22.
Shell very small, slender and fusiform, brown with a series of illdefined whitish spots at the periphery.
Surface evenly cancellate, there being about 6 spirals on the penultimate, 14 on the last whorl, crossed by longitudinals of the same size and spacing; the lower 4 spirals nearly continuous.
Whorls 5^; sutiu-e rather superficial, rising a little, near the aperture.
Aperture about half the total length, narrow throughout but sHghtly wider above.
Outer lip thick, finely denticulate within, with a shght sinus above.
Columella with 4 strong, transverse plaits.
Length 6, diam.
2 mm., aperture 3 mm.
long.
Chichijima, Ogasawara.
Types Xo.
86,000, A. X. S. P.. from Xo.
1,436 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Few of the species of this genus have been adequately described or illustrated.
T. exilis (Rve.)
seems related to this species.
It is more tapering anteriorly and "pale violet-purple."
COLUMBELLID^.
Columbella turturina borealis n. subsp.
Smaller and less inflated than typical turturina Lam., and with the aperture narrower.
Yellowish-chestnut-brown, with some bands of white dots, and with ahernate snowy and dark-brown spots below the suture, the former raised into low nodules in places.
Base spirally striate.
Lips lilac-tinted, the outer lip with about 8 tubercles within.
Columella with the usual two folds, and a row of small tubercles.
Length 7, diam.
4.5 mm.
Length 6.5, diam.
3.8 mm, Hacliijojima, Izu.
Types No.
86,002, A. X. S. P., from No.
1,391 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
C. deshayesii Crosse, C. palumbina Gld.
and C. sandwichensis Pse., probably all one species, are larger than the aboA'e race, and more striate on the back, Columbella albinodulosa var.
ogasawarana n. subsp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
23.
Shell [fusiform, solid, gray-white, closely lineolate vertically with brown, the lines irregular, and interrupted by two spiral belts of irregular brown and snowy dots and fretwork, and with two transverse chestnut spots or short bands upon the terminal varix; the brown lines sometimes partially coalescent, and the pattern interrupted in some specimens by a few broad snowy stripes.
.Some of the whorls of the spire are usually weakly nodulose below the suture, the nodules white.
Whorls about 9, nearly fiat, the last slightly convex, contracted below, and ver};weakly striated spirally on and near the short siphonal fasciole; expanded in a low rounded varix behind the outer lip.
Aperture white, toothed within, there being about 7 teeth within the outer lip, 4 or 5 on the columellar margin, with a low, oVjtuse fold within.
Length 8.7, diam.
3.3 mm.
; length of aperture 4 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
86,003, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,468 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form differs from C. cdbiJ^oduJoso as figured by Reeve^ and by Fischer* in coloration, and in lacking spiral striation on the lower part of the body-whorl.
It is also a smaller form, and very likely will prove to be specificalty distinct.
C. albinodulosa seems, from the figures, to approach some forms of C. varians Sowb.
Columbella liocyma n. sp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
24.
Shell obesely fusiform, rather thin, rose-red with snow-white dots at rather wide intervals below the suture on the spire, and a whitish band there on the last whorl, where there are also several white dots along the border of the siphonal fasciole, which is dark brown tesselated with white.
Sculpture of numerous smooth, rounded longitudinal ribs a 3 Conch.
Icon., PI.
23, fig.
138.
* Journ.
de Conchjl., 19U1, p. 101, figs.
3-G. little wider than their intervals, the contracted base and fascicle spirally lirate.
Whorls 6-7, convex, the last convex below the suture and peripherally, contracted below, the longitudinal ribs absent on its last half, which is smooth except for a small rounded varix behind the hp, marked with a large white spot above and another in the middle.
Both lips are dentate within, the outer margin with about 8 teeth, the upper ones, in the middle of the lip, stronger; inner lip with five weak teeth.
Columella with one deeph^ placed basal fold.
Length 5, diam.
2.6 mm.
Length 5.7, diam.
2.8 mm.
Types No.
85,961, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
1,392 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A beautiful rose-colored, smooth-waved little species.
Columbella somnium n. sp.
PI.
Ill, figs.
28, 29.
Shell stoutly fusiform, solid and strong, variously colored: (1) pink, sprinkled with white dots, with a white band maculate with brown below the suture, and a peripheral line of white dots, the swollen lip-varix w'hite with several brown spots, or (2) white with longitudinal ragged brown markings, mingled with a clear gray reticulation on the back of the last whorl.
Surface glossy and nearly smooth, there being a few very low and inconspicuous nodules below the suture on the back of the last whorl, and 2 or 3 spiral cords above the short, convex siphonal fasciole, which is spirally coarsely striate.
Spire with slightly convex lateral outlines; apex obtuse.
Whorls 7, but slightly convex, the last broadly gibbous, varixed behind the outer lip.
Aperture half the shell's length, the outer lip straight, hlac-tinted, with 8 teeth within, columella with a single broad, low, deeply placed fold, and a series of 8 teeth at the edge, which is lilac-tinted and distinct but not elevated.
Length 11.7 to 12.7, diam.
5 mm.
Yakujima, Osimii.
Types No.
86,129, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,424 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This beautiful species resembles C. dunkeri Try on, but differs in the straightened outer lip, heavier varix and narrower mouth with stronger teeth.
Columbella hahajimana n. sp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
25.
Shell very minute, obesely fusiform, moderately solid, yellowish marked with some faint angular brown lines or with wiiite belts at suture, periphery and base, and marked with angular brown lines, and a row of oblong spots above the middle.
Sculpture of many close, small longitudinal folds which do not extend below the periphery, the narrow part of the base spirally striated.
Aperture white, about half the length of the shell, narrow and sinuous, the outer lip toothed within, the columellar lip very minutely so.
Length 2.8, diam.
1.3 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
85,960, A. X. S. P., from No.
1,387 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small Seminella reseml^lcs C. troglodytes Souv.
and C. sinejisis Sowb., but the longitudinal plication is finer than in either.
C. sinensis has been taken in Tokyo Bay.
Columljella divaricata n. sp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
26.
Shell fusiform, rather thin, not glossy, light olive-brown, marked with red-brown spiral lines ivhich slowly converge fonoard from above and below, meeting in acute angles just below the periphery.
About 5 of these lines may be counted in any one place on the penultimate whorl.
Suture bordered below with a snow-ivhite band which ascends the spire Surface smooth except on the contracted base which is spirally hrate.
Whorls about 6, nearly flat, the last without noticeable varix behind the acute lip.
Aperture narrow and long, not dentate within, the columella only slightly concave.
Length 6, diam.
2 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,972, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,411 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This beautiful species is colored somewhat like C. digglesi Braz., which in other respects is totally unlike.
I know of no related form.
MURIOID^.
Coralliophila Jeffreys!
var.
hiradoensis nov. PI.
Ill, fig.
27.
The shell in this form is fusiform, with the aperture noticeably longer than the spire.
There are 7 or 8 strong folds on the last whorl, most prominent at the periphery.
The w^hole surface is closely lirate spirally, the cords densely roughened with suberect scales.
There are 17 primary cords on the last whorl above the prominent siphonal fascicle, not counting 4 or 5 smaller ones interpolated in the subperipheral region.
The aperture is white within, with a dark-brown marginal border which is deeply sulcate.
There are a few acute cords making the throat sulcate.
Length 29, diam.
15.5 mm.
; length of aperture 16.5 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,981, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,407 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
In C. jeffreysi Smith the aperture is smaller.
Ocinebra monoptera n. sp.
PI.
IV, figs.
32, 32a.
Shell small, solid lusterless, ashy-gray.
Sculpture of numerous small longitudinal folds, about 12 on the penultimate whorl, becoming obsolete below the periphery on the last whorl, crossed by numerous unequal, scaly spiral cords, about 20 on the last whorl.
Whorls 6, the first rounded, forming a smooth mammillar protoconch, the rest angular in the middle, the last angular peripherally, flat and sloping above, convex below the angle, contracted downwards; expanding behind the lip in a very broad wing-like varix, triangular in section.
Aperture oval, the outer lip built forward in a thin rim, and with two low fold-like teeth within.
Anterior canal closed, tubular.
Length 12.5, diam.
7.2 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
86,121.
A. X. S. P., from Xo.
1,522 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This peculiar little species resembles the larger 0. nassoides Reeve,^ but the wing is wide below, not notched there, and the longitudinal ribs are weaker.
0. japonica Dkr.
is a much larger and multivaricose shell, but seems to be related to this.
Reeve's Triton nassoides has been referred to Nassaria, but it has little resemblance to the type of that genus.
Purpura tosana n. sp.
PI.
Ill, fig.
30.
Shell small, imperforate, fusiform, solid, gray-white with an interrupted black-brown band below the suture, another below the periphery and a less distinct one at the base.
Sculpture of numerous longitudinal rounded folds or waves, many of them followed by a raised line marking a former peristome.
These folds are more distinct on the spire than on the last whorl, w^here there are 10 to 15 of them.
The folds are crossed by numerous strong, rounded spiral cords, which are often weakly striate in the same direction, are wider than their deep intervals, and pass equally over folds and valleys.
There are about 10 of these spiral cords on the last whorl, besides some small ones below the suture and in the intervals of the large cords on the basal slope.
The interstices in well-preserved shells are delicately, closely lamellose.
The spire is rather slender and acute.
There are about 7 whorls in perfect shells, the first two forming a smooth, bulbous, shortly cylindric nucleus.
Subsequent whorls are somewhat concave below the suture, then convex.
The last whorl is inflated peripherally, contracted below, with a plicate basal fasciole.
The aperture is slightly more than half the length of the shell, dark purplish-bro^Ti with light bands ^ Conch.
Icon., II, Triton, PI.
20, fig.
96. within.
Outer lip whitish, beveled, and furnished with 3 to 6 small tubercles within.
Basal canal short and open.
Length 14, diam.
7.3 to 7.7, length of aperture S mm.
Kashiwajima, Tosa.
Types No.
85.991, A. N. S. P., from Xo.
1.375 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small species, unusually slender for a Puiyura, seems to have no near relatives in the Orient.
Sistrum (Ricinula) morus var.
borealis n. v. PI.
III.
fig.
31.
Shell biconic-oblong, faintly pink-tinted white, the mouth lilactinted.
The whole shell is longitudinally costate, the ribs rounded, as wide as the intervals, and continuous from whorl to whorl.
These are crossed by two strong ridges on the whorls of the spire, one immediately below, one just above the suture, rising into short spines or points at the intersections.
On the last whorl there are 4 or 5 prominent spiral ridges, the first close to the suture, the next and most prominent at the angular shoulder; all are spinose where they cross the longitudinal ribs.
Between these principal spirals there are spiral cords throughout.
The siphonal fasciole is prominent, leaving an umbilical crevice.
There are 5 teeth within the outer hp, the upper two large, the others small.
Length 14, diam.
S.5 mm.
Length 12.5, diam.
8 mm.
Hachijojima, Izu.
Types No.
S5.9S2, from No.
1,401 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The biconic form, pale color and rough sculptm'e differentiate this from all forms of the polymorphic morus group known to me; and it Avill probably prove to be constantly distinct enough for specific rank, though in view of the variability of R. morus I have considered this northern form to be a sulDspecies of the tropical morus.
FUSIDJE.
Tusus suboblitus n. sp.
PI.
I, fig.
-5.
Shell fusiform, widest in the middle, whitish with a brown band below the suture and another below the periphery, the anterior canal in part brown; there are also some indistinct l^rown longitudinal streaks.
Sculpture of numerous longitudinal folds, strongest on the convexity of each whorl, disappearing on the base and near the suture, 12 in number on the last whorl.
Each rib bears about six compressed tubercles, as though crossed by coarse spiral cords, which are reduced to narrow threads in the intervals, but are prominent on the ribs.
The whole surface has a finer sculpture of spaced spiral threads with numerous unequal spiral striae between them, all slightly crenulated by the close, fine gro'v\i:h-stri8e.
The high and rather slender spire is composed of 6 verj' convex whorls, the apical ones being broken off in the type specimen.
The suture is deeply constricting.
The last whorl is convex, rapidly contracting below, and produced in a long, slender and nearly straight anterior canal.
Aperture ovate, hardly longer than the narrow canal at the base.
The outer lip is thin, and retracted in a broad shallow posterior sinus.
Length 36.5. diam.
12.5 mm.
; length of aperture with anterior canal 20 mm.
Japan, exact locality unknown.
Type No.
70,941, A. X. S. P. This peculiar Fusoid species has been in the collection of the Academy for a good many years, during which time I have not seen anything much like it.
It ma}' possibly belong to the Pleurotomidoe.
BUCCINID^.
Tritonidea tosana n. sp.
PI.
IV, fig.
33.
Shell wide-fusiform, solid; brown, closely marked with many narrow black bands.
Sculpture of numerous small longitudinal folds, which are nearly obsolete on the last whorl, disappear on its last third, and elsewhere do not pass below the periphery.
There are about 15 rather acute, black primary spiral cords on the last whorl, the intervals between them densely striated with similar l)ut smaller spirals of two or three sizes.
Whorls nearly 7, slightly convex, the last inflated in the middle, contracted below.
The convex, moderately prominent siphonal fasciole is sculptured like the rest of the shell.
Aperture blue-white and indistinctly sulcate within, the throat smooth; posteriorly it is acute and slightly channelled, there being a small callous pad on the inner lip.
Outer lip sulcate within, Ijevelled to an acute edge, which is tessellated with black and yellowish.
Columella concave above, oblique and straight below, the white columellar callous showing several inconspicuous transverse plicae near the edge.
Length 22.5, diam.
12 mm.
; aperture 14 mm.
long.
Kashiwajima.
Tosa.
Types No.
85.990, A. N. S. P.. from No.
1.462 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is most nearly related to T. undulata Schepman, but differs from that in the much smaller and more numerous longitudinal folds.
Cyllene japonica n. sp.
PI.
IV, fig.
34.
Shell fusiform; flesh-tinted, indistinctly marbled and mottled with white and irregularly speckled with brown; vertically rather weakly striate and spirally grooved, the grooves narrow, separated by flat intervals.
There are four or five grooves on the penultimate and next earlier whorls, with a smooth space one-third or one-half the exposed width of the whorl between the lowest groove and the suture.
This smooth area extends upon the front of the last whorl.
The back of the last whorl is grooved throughout, the grooves more widely spaced in the peripheral region.
The outer lip is swollen outside as usual, and lirate within.
The rounded, callous columella is closely obliquely sulcate as usual.
There are 5 whorls, the apical one smooth, obtuse and rounded, the rest, fiat, parted by a channelled suture; the last whorl is a little concave below the suture.
Length 11.8, diam.
5.5 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Type No.
82,144, A. N. S. P. This species may be near the insufficiently described, unfigured C. gibba A.
Ad., but in the absence of measurements or adequate description no comparison with that form is possible.
It differs from the other species in the absence of longitudinal ribs.
In the young stages the whorl is smooth on the median convexity, but spiral grooves set in there on the last whorl.
NASSID^.
Nassa semiplioata hiradoensis n. subsp.
PL IV, figs.
35, 35a.
Shell ovate-turreted, solid and thick, lusterless, variousl}^ colored : (1) Yellow with the intervals betw^een the ribs black, the mouth and outer lip banded with black; (2) dull blackish-brown, uniform or with a yellow or white peripheral band, mouth banded ; (3) uniform creamtinted, the mouth white.
Sculpture of strong, rounded longitudinal folds as wide as their intervals, 11 or 12 in number on the last whorl, the last one much larger, forming a prominent, rounded, swollen varix behind the lip, usually preceded by a much smaller fold.
Over the folds and intervals run coarse spiral cords, rounded or flattened, as wide as their intervals or wider, and either of even strength or weaker in the valleys.
On the last whorl there are 9 to 11 of these cords.
Some shells show a very minute and superficial spiral striation throughout.
Whorls about 7 (the apex broken), strongly convex, the last rounded at the periphery, sloping below, with a moderately deep basal sulcus.
Aperture ovate; outer lip with 7 or 8 teeth within, the lower 4 usually larger, the others small.
Colimiella calloused, white, with 3 small transverse wrinkles.
A callous cord near the posterior angle defines a small posterior sinus.
T^ength 16, diam.
8.5 mm.
; length of aperture 7 mm.
Length 15.5, diam.
8 mm.
; length of aperture 7 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,999, A. N. S. V., from No.
8436 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is smaller than N. semiplicata and has stronger spiral cords throughout.
It is related to N .
incrassata and N. festiva.
Another form of the same species, from the same locality, is smaller, with more numerous, weaker folds, about 15 on the last whorl, and 9 spiral cords.
Length 13, diam.
6.8 mm.
Length 12, diam.
6 mm.
At Fukura, Awaji, there is another form referable to hiradoensis, but more elongate, with smaller folds, 15-17 on the last whorl, or obsolete on its later half, the teeth within the lip smaller.
The shell is of a dull dirty yellow tint externally, the mouth yellowish-brown or chestnuttinted within.
Length 19, diam.
9 mm.
; aperture 8 mm.
long.
This race looks a good deal like some forms of A^.
mendica Gld.
The operculum is smooth-edged.
Nassa semiplicata Mzenensis n. subsp.
PI.
IV, figs.
36, 36a.
Much smaller than hiradoensis, with the folds small and close, but not strong on the spire, weak or obsolete on the last whorl.
There are weak spirals above and below on the last whorl, obsolete in the peripheral region.
Whorls about 7, of which the first H are smooth, forming " bulbous, elevated protoconch.
Teeth within the outer lip weak.
Color purple-black, reddish-brown or olive, sometimes with a light band.
Length 10 to 11, diam.
5 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,996, A. N. 8.
P., from No.
843c of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form differs from N. teretiuscida A.
Ad.
by its spiral sculpture.
AQUILLIDyE.
Tritonidce and Tritoniidce of authors.
Lampusidce R. B. Newton, Cat.
Brit.
Eoc.
and Oligoc.
Moll.
Edw.
Coll., p. 145 (1891).
Lotoriidci' Harris, Catal.
Tert.
Moll., I, Australasian, p. 185 (1897).
Kesteven, Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
N. S. Wales for 1902, p. 443.
SeptidcE Dall and Simpson, Moll.
Porto Rico, p. 416 (1902); Nautilus, XVII, p. 55 (September, 1903).
The preoccupation of the name Triton resulting in a search for other names available for the molluscan group has led to some diversity in modern usage.
The earliest available name for the group, so far as I have been able to learn, is Aquillus of Montfort.
This name, as Johnson has pointed out,® precedes Lotorium in the Conchyliologie Systematique.
Its resemblance to Aquila is no bar to acceptance because the Latin word aquillus or aquilusj signifying dark or water-colored, is different from aquila.
an eagle.
In this connection it may be noted that Montfort used "Avatery" names for his other genera of Tritons.^ The genera of AquiUuJcc may therefore stand thus: I.
— Aquillus Montf., Conch.
Syst., II.
578.
Type cutaceus L. (Includes the sections Lampusia Schum, 1817, type pilearis L.; Lotoriimi Monti., 1810, type L. Iotor = femoralis L.; Monoplex Peny, 1811. type cynocephalus Lam.)
Subgenus Septa Perry, 1811.
Type S. ruhicunda Perry (=australis Lam.).
(Includes Triton Montf.
and Tritonium Cuv.)
II.
— Distortrix Link, 1807.
{Distorsio auct.)
III.
— Priene H. and A.
Ad.
IV.
— Cohihraria, Schimi.. 1817.
Type maculosa Gmel.
{Epidromus Klein of authors).
Subg.
Cmnia.
Bivona, 1838. type lanccolata ]\Ike.
V. — Apollon Montf., 1810 { + Gyrina Schum., 1817).
VI.
— Gyrineum Link, 1807.
(Including Biplex Perry, Buffo Montf., Bufonaria and Lampas Schum., etc., some of which are available for subgeneric and sectional divisions.)
Some authors recognize mo]-e than one genus among the forms referred above to AquiUvs, but when a wide range of species is examined, the subgenera seem to merge pretty thoroughly together.
Indeed Septa is n.ot very distinct, except in the typical species.
This subject has been ably discussed l^y Kesteven, with whose conclusions I fully agree.
It seems to me that he has shown conclusively the untenability of Ranularia, Lampusia, Lotorium, etc., as generic divisions.
Colubraria stands apart from all the other genera, and the examination of its dentition is a desideratum.
It may possibly be Rhachiglossate.
The subgenus Cumia includes small [Mediterranean and Antillean species.
A series of Antillean and Pacific species referred to this « Nautilus, XVII, p. 24 (June, 1903). '
Both spellings are given in dictionaries consulted.
The etymology suggested by Herrmannsen is obscure and more than doubtful.
* Harris (t. c, p. 186) rejects Aquillus because (1) its etymology is uncertain, and (2) if emended sufficiently it can be made identical with Aquila Brisson.
It seems scarcely necessary to reply that uncertain etymology is not usually considered ground for rejection of a name, and no authorization of such a course can be found in the British Association or any later code.
And to the second objection it may be urged that l)y a similar process of emendation about half the names in use might be changed.
Harris is wide of the mark in citing Mure.T lotorium as the type of Lotorium Montf.
It is rather hard to see how such a mistake could be made.
Montfort's engraving is a characteristic representation of the common Murex fern oralis L. division by Trvon and others, of which decapitatus Reeve and hracteattis Hinds are typical, belongs to the Rhachiglossa, as Mr. A'anatta and the writer will elsewhere show.
]\Ir.
Kesteven has shown that Triton speciosum Angas is a Trophon.
Aquillus labiosus (Wood).
Murex labiosus "Wood, Index Testae.
Suppl., p. 15, PI.
5,^fig.
ISo (1828).
Triton labiosus of authors.
Triton exaratum Reeve, Lischke, Jap.
Meeres-Conch., II, p. 35; III, p. 30, PI.
2, figs.
15-17.
Not of Reeve!
Tritonium excavatum Reeve, Pilsbry, Catal.
Mar.
Moll.
Jap., p. 47.
Hirado, Hizen (Hirase, No.
911).
This species has been erroneously described and figured as T. exaratum Reeve, an Australian form, which I have determined by comparison of numerous Australian specimens to be distinct from the Japanese species.
Aquillus exaratus (Rve.)
has a much more highly conic nucleus with more whorls; the postnepionic whorls have a flatter shoulder, and coarser secondary spiral striation.
It should be deleted from the Japanese list.
There is no trustworth}' or authentic West Indian record for Aquillus labiosus.
The specimens so marked which I have seen are from shell dealers, who, like many others, have not always been careful about localities.
NATICID^.
Folinices sagamiensis n. sp.
PI.
IV, figs.
37, 37a.
Shell obliquely hemispherical, solid and heavy, smooth; chestnutbrown, with the spire, a band below the suture, and an area at the base, the umbilicus and aperture white.
The spire is very small, short and low, though slightly conic.
Whorls 5, the last one very rapidly enlarging, globose, narrowly roimded at the base, where it curves into the umbilicus.
The suture is superficial.
The very oblique aperture is half round and pure white, the columellar side straight.
The posterior angle is filled with a very heavy convex callous.
At the middle of the columellar margin a large, rounded, flat-topped lobe projects into the umbilicus, terminating a very large spiral cord which nearh' fills the axial cavity, leaving a crescentic umbilical furrow, overhung on the convex arc by a heavy rounded rib which forms the outer margin of the umbihcus.
Leng-th 32.5, diam.
35 mm.
Hayama, a place on Sagami Bay, about 4 miles from Kamakura.
Type No.
85,956, A. N. S. P., collected by Miss A. C. Hartshorne.
This is the species I listed as a form of P.powisianusxar.
draparnaudii Recluz, in the Catal.
Mar.
Moll.
Jap., p. 72. having before me then a single specimen obtained by Mr. Frederick Stearns, now in his collection in Detroit.
I at that time noted the differences between the specimen and .V.
draparnaudii Reel., but thought the former might be abnormal.
The large size of the umbilical lobe and the strong cord around the umbilical crescent readily distinguish P. sagamiensis from draparnaudii, effusa Swains., powisianus Reel., cumingianus Reel, and other species of that group.
CALYPTR^ID^.
Ergaea walshi (' Herm.'
Rve.).
This name Ergcea was originally proposed for a subgenus of Crepidula (Crypta), comprising the species C. plana Ads.
and Rve.
(not Say) and C. ivalshi 'Herm.'
Rve.
It was J. E. Gray in 1867 who raised the group to.
generic rank, explained its morphology, and showed that it is related to Calyptrwa.
Gray's half-contemptuous estimate of the inability of his conchological contemporaries to appreciate morphological problems, expressed in his paper of '67,^ has been amply justified by the history of this genus; for in the latest works it still remains included in Crepidula.^° Having reached the same conclusion independently before reading Gray's paper, it was with some surprise that I found that he had exposed the facts in the case.
Ergcea is the end of a line of differentiation from Cahjptra:a, parallel in its evolution to that phjdum of Crepidida represented by the flat white slipper-limpets of the group of Crepidula crepidula Linne (C. unguiformis Lam.)
and C. plana Say.
The two groups, arising from diverse ancestors, have reached a superficially similar appearance, by adaptation to growing inside other shells.
Ergcea walshi ('Herm.'
Rve.)
has been taken by Mr. Hirase at Fukura, Awaji Island (No.
1,443 of Hirase's register), and by Miss Hartshorne at Hay am a, on Sagami Bay.
Amalthea conica Schum.
Essai, p. ISl, PI.
21, f. 4(1817).
Patella cassida Dillwj'n, Catal.
II, p. 1,037 (1817).
Hippony.t australis Lam., Quov and Gaim., Vov.
Astrolabe, III, p. 434, PI.
72, figs.
25-34 (1834).
Not Patella australis Lamarck.
This abundant and widespread species has been called Hipponi/x australis by writers on the Japanese fauna.
Hedley has recentl}" shown that the Lamarckian species is a South Australian Capuliis, a * Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London, 1867, p. 740. i»Tryon, Manual of Conchology, VIII, p. 130 (1SS6); Fischer, Majiu el de Co nchyliologie, p. 758 (1885).
conchision borne out by the specimens before me.
Mr. Hirase has sent Amalthea conica from Riiikiu, Hirado, Hizen, and Fukm-a, Awaji.
I am unable to see any differences between the shells of this species from South Australia.
Japan.
Mauritius, etc.
Though individually variable, there seems to have been no racial differentiation.
Tryon adds the following names to the synonymy of this species : Hipponyx acuhis and sitturalis Q. and G.. cornucopuca Hutton, orientalis Dufo.
OERITBIID^.
Cerithium trailli kikaiensis n. subsp.
PI.
IV, fig.
3S.
Shell with the lateral outlines nearly straight alDOve, convex in the lower half; cream-white, sparsely dotted with brownish-yellow on the spiral threads, and with beads of dull violet sparsely and irregularly scattered along the spiral cords.
Sculpture of three rather weakly tul^erculate spiral cords on each of the intermediate whorls of the spire, the upper one close to the suture, the intervals between them spirally striate, there being about 4 threads in each interval, the median one largest.
The upper whorls have alternate cords and threads, crossed by close longitudinal waves.
On the last whorl there are about 8 principal tuberculate cords, the intervals finely, unevenly striate.
The later whorls have swollen varices at intervals of aliout half a whorl, but they become closer above, about one-third of a volution apart.
Whorls about 10.
The ajjerture is ovate, with a sinus above defined by a cord on the inner lip.
The outer lip is strengthened by a small varix, and is sulcate within, there being usually a pair of lirae between the terminations of two spiral cords of the exterior.
The throat is smooth and white, showing some blackish dots through.
The basal channel is very short and oblique.
The inner lip is coated with a rather thick deposit of a deep purple color.
Length 15, diam.
7 nmi.
Kikaiga-shima, Osumi.
Types No.
86,001, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,503 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Compared with C. trailli Sowb.
from Singapore, this is a very much smaller form, paler, with more numerous varices and a purple columella.
Cerithium subscalatum n. sp.
PI.
IV, fig.
39.
Shell small, turrite; brown, the spiral cords paler, the intervals darker.
Sculpture of longitudinal waves or folds, about 12 on the penultimate whorl, and with one rounded varix on the last whorl opposite the aperture.
The folds do not extend below the periphery on the last whorl, where they are also much weaker.
Spiral sculpture of many crowded, smooth cords, three of which are larger, two near the periphery and one at the middle of the base.
There are three smaller cords between the upper and middle enlarged ones, and five between the middle and the basal cord, which is largest of all.
Sometimes only the median and lower cords are enlarged.
AVhorls about 9, those of the spire angular at the lower third.
Aperture ovate with a short, deep anterior canal, the outer lip strengthened by a moderately strong, rather narrow varix.
Length 7.5, diam.
3.2 mm.
, Length 8.3, diam.
3.7 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types Xo.
86,130.
A. X. S. P., from Xo.
1,466 of ]\Ir.
Hirase's collection.
This peculiar little Cerite is very closely related to Bittluin oosimense Watson, but differs by the number of whorls and the details of the spiral sculpture, as may be seen on comparison Avith Watson's excellent description and figure.
It may perhaps be identical Avith Bitthim scalatum Dimker.
That species has been described too briefly to decide with any certainty, and it has not been figured.
The species before me, however, is a true Cerithium, not a Bittium.
RISSOID^.
Rissoa tokyoensis n. sp.
PI.
IV, fig.
40.
Shell very small, regularly tapering from the last whorl, bright chestnut colored, the very thick peristome white.
Sculpture of 8 spiral cords on the last whorl, the upper four rather coarsely regularly tuberculate, those below less so, the lower two smooth.
The spire and upper portion of the last w^horl are indistincth' plicate longitudinally, the tubercles on the spirals being at the points of intersection.
W^horls 5, convex, the first one smooth, the last whorl with a heavy white varix behind the lip.
Aperture oval, the outer lip sinuous, advanced belov.-.
Length 2.3. diam.
1.2 mm.
Tokyo Harbor.
Types Xo.
70,910, A. X. S. P. Rissoa ogasawarana n. sp.
PI.
IV, fig.
41.
Shell ovate, with a rather short, straightly conic spire.
Creamwhite, with some indistinct brown spots below the suture.
Sculpture of rather small close longitudinal riblets, which on the last w'horl do not pass below the periphery.
These are crossed by about 11 spiral cords on the last whorl.
There are about 5 or bh slightly convex whorls, the last one with a broad rounded but rather low varix a short distance behind the thin outer lip.
Aperture ovate, entire below.
Length 2.2, diam.
1.2 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types Xo.
So, 951, A. X. S. P., from Xo.
1,385 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eissoina rex n. sp.
PL IV, figs.
42, 42a.
Shell solid, the lower two-thirds slowly tapering, somewhat cylindrie, the upper third more rapidly tapering to an acute apex; not glossy; white.
Sculpture of regular longitudinal rounded ribs, as wide as their intervals and about 19 in number on the penultimate whorl, and not extending upon the base of the last one.
These ribs are crossed by numerous unequal fine spiral threads.
AVhorls 10, moderately convex, parted by a deeply impressed suture, the last whorl swollen behind the outer lip.
Aperture small, ovate, vertical, hardly channelled below.
Length 14, diam.
4.8 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
85,949, A. X. S. P., from Xo.
753 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This large Rissoina seems to be rather abundant.
With the type lot there was a specimen of a I'eddish-brown color with a small white basal tract and a light band above.
The ribs are more numerous, 25 on the penultimate whorl, and there arc 4 broad varices on the last 3 whorls, while the type has only 1 at the end of the last volution.
The shape is also less cylindrie than in the type.
More material is needed to determine the status of this form.
Eissoina materinsulae n. sp.
PI.
V, figs.
43, 43a.
Shell oblong-acuminate, the outlines of the spire convex ; solid, white.
Sculpture of many small straight, crowded, roimded,low longitudinal riblets, the intervals transversely striate.
The apex is wanting, about 6 whorls remaining.
These are slightly convex and separated by a shallow, linear suture.
The last whorl is swollen into a wide roimded varix behind the outer lip, the fine riblets of the rest of the surface being developed also upon it.
The aperture is semioval, the thick outer lip a little advanced below; columellar margin, moderately concave, truncate below b}' the shallow, rounded basal channel.
Length 5, diam.
2 mm.
Hahajima, Ogasawara.
Types X^o.
85,976, A. X'.
S. P., from X^o.
1,390a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Eissoina (Eissolina) laevicostulata n. sp.
PI.
V, fig?
.
44, 44a.
Shell narrowly ovate-acuminate, regularly tapering from the last whorl, white, with a red-brown blush on the back of the last whorl, moderately solid.
Sculpture of about 20 rounded, obliquely longitudinal, slightly sinuous ribs about as wide as the intervals, both ribs and intervals smooth.
Whorls about S, moderately convex, the last with a very strong, heavy varix behind the outer lip, and with a convex siphonal fasciole at the base, bounded above by a groove and regularly plicate, the ribs passing over it.
Aperture semioval.
the outer lip thick and sinuous, columellar margin but slightly concave, a shallow but distinct channel at its base in the basal margin.
liCngth 4.8, diam.
2 mm.
Kamakura, Sagami.
Types No.
70,906, A. N. 8.
P. It also occm's at Hahajima, Ogasawara, No.
1,3906 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is related to R. costulata Dkr., but differs by its more numerous ribs.
R. plicatula Gld., an unfigured species, also seems to be related.
Kissoina (Zebina) tridentata (Michaud).
Rissoa tridentata Michaud, Descript.
nouv.
esp.
Rissoa (p. 6) in Ann.
Soc.
Linn, de Lyon, I, 1836.
Rissoina curta Sowb., Schwartz, Monogr.
Rissoina, p. 107 (1860).
R. bidentata Phil., Archiv.
f.
Naturg., 1845, p. 64 (^Friendly Is.).
R. eulimoides A.
Ad., P. Z. S., 1851, p. 279 (Capul, Philippines).
Eidima dentiens Dkr., Malak.
Bl., XVIII, 1871, p. 152 (Viti Is.).
Rissoa crassilabnnn Garr., Proc.
Cal.
Acad., I, 1857, p. 102 (Hilo).
Rissoina coronata Reel., Schwartz, Monogr.
Rissoina (1860), p. 109 (Mauri tius) .
Kikai-ga-shima, Osumi, typical specimens of this species, which has not before been reported from the east coast of iVsia.
The synonymy as given by Tryon" requires some emendation in the light of the large series of specimens now available for study.
The following forms, united with R. tridentata b}'' him, are, in my opinion, perfectly distinct species : Rissoa semiglabrata A.
Ad., P. Z. S., 1851, p. 279.
Rissoa semiplicata Pse., P. Z.
<S., 1862, p. 242 : Ainer.
Jour, of Conch., Ill, p. 295, PL 24, fig.
29.
The former of these differs from all forms of tridentata in the more acuminate spire and the sculpture.
The latter, of which specimens from Pease are before me, is a yQYj much smaller species, with more of the spire plicate.
I add to the synonymy of R. tridentata the Eidima dentiens of Dunker, of which authentic specimens are before me.
It is absolutely identical with tridentata Mich. R. crassilabrum Garrett is also a typical tridentata, with teeth, and 8 mm.
long.
Whether the toothless form coronata ' Reel.'
Schwartz is varietally separable is doubtful, but the series before me shows that toothless individuals occur with normal tridentata.
The size varies a good deal: Length 5.3, diam.
2.3 mm.
(Schwartz, type of R. coronata). "
Man.
Conch., IX, p. 389.
Length 6. diam.
2.6 mm.
(Schwartz, type of R. eidimoides).
Length 6.5. diam.
2.S mm.
(Schwartz, type of bickntata).
Length 7. diam.
3.7 mm.
(Hawaiian Islands specimen).
Length 8. diam.
4 mm.
(Michaud, R. tridentata).
Length 8. diam.
4 mm.
(Viti Islands specimen).
Length 9, diam.
5 mm.
(Viti Islands specimen).
Length 10, diam.
5.3-5.7 mm.
(Kikai-ga-shima specimens).
Length 10.5, diam.
4.8 mm.
(Viti Islands specimen).
The sizes from 5.5 to 10.5 mm.
long are represented by specimens before me.
Rarely there is a varix on the penultimate whorl.
The larger shells are generally somewhat distorted, and are then extremely like Eulima.
Indeed, the whole genus or subgenus Zebina is excessively Eulimoid in structure of the shell, so much so as to suggest that the Eulimidce may have had a Rissoinoid progenitor.
Probably the Gymnoglossa , even as restricted by Fischer, is not a natural group.
To the distribution of R. tridentata indicated alcove should be added the Red Sea localities given by Sturany^in his valuable report on the "Pola" gastropods.
With the Japanese locality here recorded, this gives the species an enormous range in the Indo-Pacific life-area.
TURBONILLID^.
Turbonilla hiradoensis n. sp.
PI.
V, fig.
45.
Shell very slender, the length 5 times the greatest diameter; glossy; white, encircled by two brown lines, of which one is at the periphery of the last whorl and ascends the spire a little below the middle of the whorls, and the other revolves below the periphery of the last whorl, its upper edge being barely visible above the suture of the preceding whorls.
Sculpture of nearly vertical, slightly arcuate rounded riblets, as wide as their intervals, extending from suture to suture on the spire, and on the last whorl they gradually decrease below the periphery, becoming obsolete around the axis, where the base is nearly smooth ; over all there is an excessively fine, minute, dense spiral striation.
On the last whorl there are 29 riblets.
There are 12 convex whorls in addition to the smooth, planorboid, upturned nuclear whorl; sutures deeply impressed.
Length 8.3, diam.
1.7 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,986, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,517 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
'^ "Gastropoden des Rothen Meeres" (p. 56), in Denkschr.
K. Akad.
Wissensch., LXXIV, p. 264.
This species differs from T. hicinda A.
Ad.
by the absence of spiral lirae on the base.
A variety may be called T. hiradoensis var.
hadia.
It is of a dark reddish-brown or purplish-ljrown color throughout.
The specimens occurred with T. hiradoensis.
Turbonilla (Cinguliua) terebra Dkr.
Pi.
V, fig.
46.
Shell slender, its length four times the diameter: lateral outlines straight; white; faintly marked with groTv-th-lines.
Sculpture of 3 spiral grooves on each whorl, the spaces between them equal, the lowest groove smaller than the others, a narrow space between it and the suture.
Last whorl with the third groove nearly peripheral, several narrower grooves below it on the convex base.
Whorls 11, besides the upturned planorboid nucleus.
They are moderately convex and separated by deep sutures.
Length 8, diam.
2 mm.
; aperture 2 mm.
long.
Hirado, Hizen.
No.
922& of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species tapers more rapidly than T. triarata, and the 3 spiral grooves are parted by 2 equal spaces.
The space above the upper groove is more convex than the others.
In immature shells the base has numerous spiral engraved striae, closer near the axis, but in the largest shells they become fainter.
This species must be closely related to Cingulina subulata Clessin," described from Macao; but the whorls are more convex, and there are spiral grooves on the base of the last whorl, which in subulata is said to be "nach unten gerundet, glatt."
The spiral grooves are more emphatic in T. spina C. and F., of New South Wales and South Ailstralia, and which has also been reported from Karachi by Melvill, Proc.
Zool.
Soc, 1901. p. 395.
The following species of the sul^genus Cingulina have been reported from Japan : C. dngulata Dkr., Moll.
Jap., p. 16.
C. terebra Dkr., Moll.
Jap., p. 16.
C. circinata A.
Ad., A7in.
Mag., 1860, \T, p. 414.
C. japonica Clessin, Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimidce, p. 223.
None of them have been adequately described or figured.
Turbonilla (Cingulina) cingulata (Dkr.).
PI.
V, fig.
47.
In this species there are three deep eciuidistant spiral furrows, somewhat narrower than the intervening cords, on each whorl.
Of the four cords, the upper three are equal, the lower one narrower.
On the base ^■'' Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimidce, p. 223. there are several spiral o:roo\'es, and some finer strite near the axis.
A well-grown specimen measures, length 10.5, diam.
2.5 mm.
There are about 13 postnepionic whorls.
The shell figiu-ed is from Hirado, Hizen.
Dimker's type was from Deshima (near Nagasaki), also in southwestern K\'ushu.
This species is apparently close to C. circinata A.
Ad., the type of Cingulina, found at Awa-shima, which is known to me by Adams' brief description onh".
Turbonilla (Cingulina) triarata n. sp.
PL V, fig.
4S.
vShell very slender and long, the leng-th about four times the greatest diameter; lateral outlines straight.
White, glossy, slightly marked with growth-lines.
Sculpture of three spiral grooves on each whorl, the lowest one at the suture below, the other grooves defining three nearly flat spaces, the upper one narrowest, lower widest.
Last whorl with the third groove at the periphery, the base convex, very minutely and closely striate spirally.
Whorls 13, besides the elevated planorboid nucleus whi'.h stands on edge at the summit.
Suture channelled.
Length 0.5. diam.
2.3 mm.
; length of aperture 2.1 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
85,977, A. X. S. P.. from Xo.
1.005 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form must stand near Cingulina japonica Clessin."
but agrees with neither the description nor figure.
Clessin states that his species has a single line running below the suture, the rest of the whorl being smooth, but he figures two more spiral lines ; and the last whorl, which he says is subangular below, the base smooth, is figiu-ed with 5 spiral lines.
The proportions, 11 x 1.9 mm., are more slender than T. triarata.
One becomes accustomed to such discrepancies in Clessin's work.
His ideals of descriptive zoology are not lofty.
TURBINID^.
CoUonia rosa n. sp.
PI.
VI, fig.
53.
Shell obliqueh' globose-turbinate.
narrowly umbilicate, rose-red, with two apical whorls yellow.
Sculpture of somewhat unequal spiral cords, about as wide as their intervals, and 25 to 27 in niunber on the last whorl.
Several of the cords, at unequal inter\'als.
are slightly larger than the others, and all are nearly smooth except near the suture and umbilicus, where there are short radial folds.
Spire short, conic.
Whorls about 4, convex.
Aperture but slightly oblique, circular, white, smooth and pearly within.
Inner margin of the peristome thick and white.
A slightly sinuous cord ascends almost vertically into the '* Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimida, p. 223, PL 36, fig.
3. umbilicus, on the side opposite the aperture.
The margin of the umbiHcus is more or less distinctly crenulate.
Alt.
5.5, diam.
6 mm.
Tanabe, Kii.
Types No.
85,992, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,457 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also from Tokyo Bay.
In some of the specimens, especially those not ciuite mature, there is some white mottling in the peripheral region, and a white area around the umbilicus.
The specimens from Tokyo Bay w^hich I provisionally refer to this species want the subsutural and umbilical plication.
PHASIANELLID^.
Phasianella tristis Pils.
PI.
VI, fig.
64.
Nautilus, XVII, 69 (October, 1903).
Rishiri, Kit ami.
TROOHID^.
Trochus Mrasei n. sp.
PI.
V, figs.
52, 52a.
Shell imperforate, pyramidal, with the outlines slightly convex below and noticeably concave along the upper half of the spire; base flat.
White, with bold radial stripes of blood-red or purplish-red on the later whorls, the spire ver}' minutely and copiously speckled with olive-green and red, the latter color predominating on the spiral cords.
Base whitish, tessellated with blood-red ol^long spots on the spiral cords.
The upper half of the spire is sculptured with short obliquely vertical waves on the lower third of each whorl, terminating in nodes above the suture; above these waves there are several low, weakly granose spiral cords.
The waves gradually diminish on the penultimate whorl and are nearly obsolete on the last, and the spiral cords increase in number and strength.
The periphery is acutely angular in front but in fully adult shells becomes blunt behind the lip.
The fiat base is sculptured with about 12 ver}^ low and smoothish circular cords.
The aperture is smooth and silvery within.
The columella bears an acute lobe above, separated from the iDase b}^ a deep incision, and it terminates below in an oblong, whitish tubercle.
The umbilical region is pearly as usual.
Alt.
50, diam.
45 mm.
Tanal^e, Kii.
Types No.
82,104, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,295 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Trochus Mrasei differs from T. conus Qm.
}'^ in its wider base, acutely '^ The synonymy of this species, which is commonly known by the non-binomial name given by Chemnitz, is as follows: Trochus conus Gmel., Syst.
Nat.
(13), p. 3,569 (1790), based upon Trochus acutangulus, etc., Chemnitz, Conchyl.
Cab., V, p. 81, PI.
167, fig}.
1,610 (1781).
angular periphery and flat lower surface.
It holds a relation toward T. conus somewhat similar to that existing between T. maximus Koch and T. niloticus L. This form seems to be identical with 7\ turris Philippi, Zeitschr.
/, Malak., 1846, p. 102 {preoc.)
= T. alius Phil., Conchyl.
Cab., p. 217, PI.
32, fig.
7 (not of Perry, 1811).
The habitat of Philippi's species was unknown, but Dunker has reported it from the Inland Sea of Japan.
Four recent species of the typical section of Trochus are now known : T. niloticus, T. maximus, T. conus and T. hirasei.
Chlorostoma rugatum Gld.
Gld., Otia Conch., p. 158.
C. turhinatum A.
Ad., Pilsbry, Catal.
Mar.
Moll.
Jap., p. 94, PI.
6, figs.
9, 10.
Not of A. Adams.
I formerly figured this under the erroneous name C. turhinatum, but Adams described that species as umbilicate, while this is imperforate.
The figures cited above are from specimens from Hakodate, the type locality.
The species extends down the ocean coast of Nippon to Sagami Bay, where it has been found at Hayama, near Kamakura, by Miss A. C. Hartshorne.
CMorostoma rugatum sublaevis n. subsp.
PI.
V, fig.
50.
Shell imperforate but with a rather deep pit in the place of the filled umbilicus, shaped like C. rugatum or more depressed, slate-black or purplish-black.
Upper surface free from oblique corrugation, or with it only weakly indicated in places.
Base weakly sculptured with low spiral cords.
Axial callous white, or sometimes green-tinted and with an orange outer border.
Alt.
21, diam.
26 mm.
(Kamoito, Teshio).
Alt.
26, diam.
32 mm.
(Afun, Teshio).
Kamoito and Afun, Teshio, in Yesso, the types No.
80,388, A. N. S. P., from the former place.
Clanculus hizenensis var.
fraterculus n. v. PI.
VI, fig.
.54.
The shell is trochiform with flattened base, straightly conic spire and rounded periphery.
On a nearly white ground it is radially maculate with browTi on the upper surface, with smaller spots interposed between the others at the peripheral region.
The base has paler small spots on the ribs, sometimes partially arranged in radial stripes.
The apical H whorls are uniform, the next whorl irregularly dotted with pink on a pale buff-brown ground.
The 5 J or 6 whorls are convex and parted by a narrow, deep suture.
Trochus alfus Pern-, Conchologij, PI.
47, fig.
3 (ISll).
Trochus elotus Lamarck, An.
sans Vert., VII, p. 21 (1822).
Trochus senatarius Philippi, Conchyl.
Cab., Trochus, p. 324, PI.
46, fig.
7.
3 The sculpture is of closely beaded spiral cords, of \'\'hich there are five on the penultimate and next earlier whorls, the upper three small, the lower two much larger and wider spaced.
On the last whorl there is a group of three large cords in the peripheral region, three smaller ones above them; the intervals being densely obliquety striate, with no trace of spiral strise or secondary threads.
The base, which is slightly convex, has eight subequal spirals, which are smaller and less deepl}^ cut into beads than those above them.
The intervals throughout are about equal in width to the adjacent spiral cords.
The aperture is very oblique, sulcate within, with 8 to 10 lirce, the bevelled edge fluted.
The oblique columella has a low nodule above and a strong tooth at the base.
Its edge is flanged outwardly.
The rather narrow umbilicus is guarded by about four teeth.
Alt.
5.3, diam.
5.8 mm.
Alt.
4.5, diam, 4.5 mm.
Riukiu.
Types No.
85,980, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,451 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form is closely related to C. hizenensis Piis.
from Hirado, Hizen, from which it differs chiefly in the smaller size, different coloration and the splitting of the subsutural bead-cord into two.
Clanculus gemmulifer pallidus Pils.
PI.
VI, fig.
63.
Nautilus, XVII, 71 (October, 1903).
Kashiwajima, Tosa.
Gibbula vittata Pils.
PI.
VI, fig.
59.
Nautilus, XVII, 69 (October, 1903).
Riukiu Island.
Gibbula incarnata Pils.
PI.
VI, fig.
62.
Nautilus, XVII, 70.
Kumihama, Tango.
Monilea (Rossiteria) nucleolus Pils.
PI.
VI, figs.
58, 5Sa.
Nautilus, XVII, 70.
Euchelus liscbkei n. sp.
PI.
VI, fig.
55.
The shell is globose with conic spire and narrow umbilicus, moderately solid, and of a uniform purple-brown color.
There are about 5 convex whorls parted by a narrow channelled suture.
The sculpture is of closely beaded spiral cords parted b}^ intervals of 'about their own width.
On the last whorl there are 11 of these primary cords, with, in full-grown shells, a small secondary cord in each interval.
The earliest sculptured whorl has three large cords, this number being soon doubled by intercalation of new ones.
The intervals are more or less strongly latticed across by threads continuous with the beads on the spirals.
The round, oblique aperture is closely lirate within.
The columella is noticeably .concave, and bears a weak tooth below.
The narrow umbilicus is bounded by a white cord.
Alt.
7.5, diam.
6.5 mm.
Hachijo-jima, Izu.
Types No.
85,979, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,395 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species, in form and sculpture, is much like E. atratus (Gm.)
on a diminutive scale, but the columellar tooth is far weaker.
E. ruber A.
Ad., E. gemmatus (Gld).
and other small granose species also have a much stronger columellar tooth.
Euchelus hachijoensis n. sp.
PI.
VI, fig.
56.
Shell glolDOse, with short spire and narrow mnbilicus ; spirally granose-lirate ; coral-red, sparsely dotted with darker red, usually on alternate spirals above and on all the basal spirals.
Whorls 4, convex, the first 1 smooth.
Sculpture of crowded, closely granose or beaded spirals, 12 or 13 in number and subequal on the last whorl, the granules weakly connected across the intervals.
On the penultimate whorl the spirals usually alternate in size, as is ordinarity the case in shells where they increase in number by intercalation.
The subcircular, obhque aperture is smooth or at least not distinctly sulcate inside.
The columella is slightly concave and terminates in a very weak tubercle.
The umbilicus is bounded by a white rib.
Alt.
4, diam.
4.5 mm.
Hachijojima, Izu.
Types No.
85,978, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,3956 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small red species has an unusually weak columellar tubercle.
I do not know of any closely related form.
Euchelus (Hybochelus) cancellatus orientalis n. subsp.
PI.
VI, figs.
57, 57a.
Shell similar to E. cancellatus of South Africa in form, but differing in having more large spiral cords, 10 at the beginning of the last whorl, each interval bisected by a small thread.
Near the end of the whorl some of these threads become nearly as large as the primary cords, and minute threads of a third order appear in some of the intervals.
In E. cancellatus there are only 8 primary cords at the beginning of the last whorl, the intervening threads are much larger, and additional threads are intercalated sooner and more numerovisly.
The pits produced by oblique riblets are much narrower in orientalis, the upper series in each pair of intervals are usually subdivided, while in E. cancellatus the pits are regular and uniform.
Alt.
13, diam.
15 mm.
Kashiwajima, Tosa, Type No.
85,954, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,475 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
SIPHONARIIDu^.
Siphonaria subatra n. sp.
PI.
VI, figs.
61, 61a, 616.
Shell oval, thin, with subcentral apex, nearly straight slopes and strongly projecting "siphon."
Dark ashy-brown where eroded in the middle, blackish around the border, and gray or banded with black in the intervening zone; the interior intense black-brown with short white marks at the terminations of the ribs.
Sculpture of nimierous rather coarse, unequally spaced radial ribs, projecting at the edge, with much finer radial threads between them, several in each interval.
The siphonal groove usually continues weakly past the apex of the cavity, its end curving forward.
Length 16-17, widtli 13-14.5, alt.
4 mm.
Chichijima, Ogasawara.
Types No.
86,132, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,482 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
*S. atra, of the South Pacific, is a much heavier and larger shell, more strongly serrate at the edge.
S. amara Nutt.
is a higher species, with the siphonal projection less conspicuous.
Siplionaria rucuana n. sp.
PI.
VI, figs.
60, 60a, 606.
Shell small, thin, steeply conic, with subcentral summit.
The apex is brown, smooth and glossy, Crepichda-^\\SL\)Qd, the tip curving backward and to the left.
The sculpture is of 20 to 25 uneciual rounded radial ribs, of which about half do not extend to the apex.
The ribs are whitish-gray, the intervals generally dusky.
The ribs irregularly denticulate the margin.
The siphonal rib projects moderately, and shows a rather faintly impressed line along its ridge.
The interior is deep-brown or even black-brown within the muscle-impression, and usually striped with brown to or nearly to the edge, between the white rib rays.
Length 8, width 6.5 to 7, alt.
3.3 mm.
Length 8.5, width 7, alt.
4 mm.
Riukiu Island.
Types No.
86,131, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,364 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small form is unlike any of the region, and seems faii'ly constant in a number of specimens.
TORNATINID^.
Tornatina insignis n. sp.
PI.
V, figs.
49, 49a.
Shell cylindric, white, marked with slight growth-lines only.
Spire rather long and slender; whorls 4 after the up-tilted nucleus, very convex, the suture deep but not in the least channelled, the shoulder of the last whorl rounded.
Aperture of the usual shape, the thin outer lip ^rched forward in the middle, moderately retracted above.
Columella concave, with a very inconspicuous fold above.
Length 4.7, diam.
2 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types Xo.
85,984, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,271a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Remarkable for the total absence of a channel at the suture.
Tornatina decorata n. sp.
PI.
V, fig.
51.
Shell straightly cylindric, white under a pale yellow cuticle, which is closely decorated with red-brown spiral lines; sculptured with slight gro\\'th-Unes only.
Spire short.
Postnuclear whorls about 3^, parted by a deeply channelled suture, which does not descend much except at the last whorl.
Aperture of the usual shape, the outer lip moderately arched forward in the middle and retracted above, deeply slit at the suture.
Columella callous, flattened, slightly concave, with a low fold above.
Length 6.8, diam.
3.9 mm.
Hirado, Hizen.
Types No.
85,985, A. N. S. P., from No.
1,235 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Readily known by the brown lineolation and short spire when in good condition; but the color is solely cuticular.
No similar species has been reported from the northwest Pacific.
STUDIES IN THE ORTHOPTEKOUS FAMILY PHASMID5:.
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
The material treated in the following pages is almost wholly from the collections of the Academy, the U. S. National Museum, and the collection of Mr. Morgan Hebard, of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
The localities represented by large series are as follows: Costa Rica (various localities).
Schild and Burgdorf collection.
[U. S. N. M.] Mombasa, East Africa.
[Collection of Morgan Hebard.]
South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Trong, Lower Siam.
Dr. W. L. Abbott.
[U. S. N. M.] Goenong Soegi, Sumatra.
A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Obi, Moluccas.
[Collection of Morgan Hebard.]
The author wishes to thank Dr. William H. Ashmead, of the National Museum, and Mr. Hebard for many kindnesses rendered during the preparation of this and other papers.
Subfamily LONCHODIX.E.
Genus MYRONIDES St^l.
1875.
Myronides Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
S and 63.
Included M. pfeifferop (Westwood) and M. kaupii Stal, of which the former may be considered the type.
Myronides ashmeadi n. sp.
Type.— d' ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(W. L.
Abbott.)
[Cat.
No.
6,974, U. S. N. M.] Apparently related to M. filum Sharp^ from New Britain, but readih^ separated by the absence of pronounced cephalic and metathoracic tubercles, the comparatively greater length of the limbs, and the single tooth on the apical portion of the femora.
I take pleasure in dedicating this very distinct species to my friend, Dr. William H. Ashmead, of the United States National Museum, as a token of personal esteem and regard for his pronounced scientific ability.
1 Willey's Zoological Res^ats, Part I, p. 81, PI.
VII, fig.
1.
Form very slender.
Head moderately elongate, subequal; eyes subovate, projecting considerably beyond the head ; antennse with the basal joint longer than broad, depressed, subequal in width.
Pronotiim about twice as long as broad.
Mesonotum very elongate, subequal, surface with but few small tubercles.
Metanotum (with median segment) not quite three-fifths the length of the mesonotum; median segment about two-fifths the metathoracic length.
Abdomen slender, elongate, exceeding the thoracic segments in length ; ninth dorsal segment tectate, compressed, apex very deeply and narrowly emarginate; supra-anal plate not visible; cerci of moderate length, subequal, incurved; subgenital plate short, not extending beyond the base of the supra-anal, apex very broadly and evenly rounded.
Limbs very slender, the anterior and posterior pair subequal in length, median pair shorter.
Anterior femora equal to the pronotum, mesonotum and metanotum (without median segment) in length, depressed, rectangular in section, supplied with a median subbasal dentiform process on the inferior surface; tibise very slightly exceeding the femora in length, subtrigonal in section ; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora slightly exceeding the mesonotum in length, subtrigonal in section, inferior surface with a median subbasal process as on the anterior femora, genicular lobes acute; tibiae very slightly exceeding the femora in length, subtrigonal in section.
Posterior femora slightly exceeding the middle of the fourth abdominal segment,^ sectionally subquadrate, the usual subbasal process present; tibise exceeding the femora by about the length of the median segment, sectionally subtrigonal; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color dull brownish-green, becoming rather pale green on the limbs; head, antennse, pronotum, under surface of the abdominal segments, and the genicular regions very dull obscure claret.
Pubescence on the tarsal joints golden yellow.
Measureynents.
Total length, 71 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 Length of mesonotum, 16.5 '' Length of metanotum (with median segment) 9 Length of abdomen, 38.5 Length of anterior femora, 23.5 Length of anterior tibise, 25.5 Length of median femora, 16.5 Length of posterior femora, 23 ' Not including the median segment.
Two additional male specimens have been examined, one a topotype, the other from Khow Sai Dow, Trong, 1,000 feet elevation, taken in 1899.
Myronides porus (Westwood)?
1859.
Lonchodes Porus Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 42, PI.
VII, fig.
9.
[East Indies.]
One female; Khow Sai Dow, Trong.
Lower Siam, 1,000 feet.
January-February, 1899.
(Dr. W. I..
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] While the female of this species has never been described, the present specimen is in such condition that the more important characters cannot be critically examined.
For this reason some uncertainty exists as to the correctness of the determination.
Genus PHRAORTES Stal.
1875.
Phraortes Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
8 and 64.
Type.
— Phasma elongata Thunberg.
Phraortes mikado n. sp.
Type.
— ?
; Yokohama, Japan.
(Loomis.)
[A. N.
Caudell.]
Allied to P. elongatus (Thunberg) {= Phasma ■niponense De Haan), but differing in the character of the lamellar expansions on the median and posterior femora, the carination of the anterior femora, and the non-gibbous sixth abdominal segment.
Form slender, elongate.
Head moderately long, considerably wider anteriorl}'than posteriorly; eyes circular, moderately prominent; occiput bearing a pair of acute conical spines, equal in height to the depth of the eye.
Pronotum rectangular, longer than Inroad, surface with slightly marked longitudinal and transverse depressions.
JMesonotum over foiu* times the length of the pronotum, suliequal except posteriorly, median longitudinal depression well marked.
Metanotum (with median segment) about four-fifths the length of the mesonotum, suljequal except for the gradually expanded ]Dosterior portion, median segment about one-fourth the length of the metanotum alone.
Abdomen considerably exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, the greatest width l^eing at the third and fourth segments; ninth dorsal segment tectate, carinate, lateral margins sinuate, the apex with a median triangular emargination which exposes the truncate extremity of the tectate and carinate supra-anal plate; subgenital plate scoopshaped, compressed, carinate.
Limbs \-ery slender, the anterior pair exceeding the others in length.
Anterior femora exceeding, by more than the length of the median segment, the combined length of the head, pronotum and mesonotum, subtrigonal in section, superior external and inferior margin sparsely serrulate, lower surface with a carina which is internal proximally but median distally; tibiee exceeding the length of the femora by over the length of the head, pentagonal in section.
Median femora comparatively short, not quite equal to the length of the mesonotum, subtrigonal in section, the superior surface narrowly flattened, lower margins slightly expanded basally and provided with several dentiform serrations, lower surface with the weak median carina elevated apically and bearing several rather slight dentiform processes, genicular lobes acute.
Posterior femora considerably exceeding the pronotum and mesonotum in length, general structure identical with that of the median femora except that the external inferior margin alone is expanded and developed into but ofie dentiform serration; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in length, pentagonal in section, median inferior carina evenly elevated in the proximal portion.
General color greenish-brown, paler anteriorly and posteriorly.
j\lcasurcmcnts.
Total length.
104.5 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.5 " Length of mesonotmn 21 " Lengthofmetanotum (wit li median segmeiii) 17 " Length of abdomen.
57 " Length of anterior femora.
32 '' Length of anterior tibiae.
38 " Length of median femora 20 " Ijength of posterior femora 25.5 " Genus DIXIPPUS StM.
1875.
Dixippus Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
9 and 66.
Included crawangcnsis (Haan).
nodosus (Haan), and uniformis (Westwood).
of which the first may be selected as the type.
Dixippus sumatranus (Haan).
1842.
P[hasma] sumotrcmian Haan, Natuur.
Gesch.
Neder.
Overzeesche Bezitt., Plaaten, tab.
13, fig.
6.
[Batang Singalang, Sumatra.]
One male; Goenong Soegi.
Lampong, Sumatra.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
^ [A. N. S.
Phila.]
As Kirby has shown,^ this form is no doubt distinct from imdosus.
with which Haan confused it in his text, after having separated and applied a name to it on his plate.
Kirby's male specimen and the one before me carry out the characters of the female figured l)y Haan.
and ^ Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, zool.
ser., VI, 2d ser., pp.
458, 459. accordingly prove that the very different looking nodosus is something quite distinct.
The male specimens from Baram, North Borneo examined by Kirby, may prove to be a closely allied but distinct species, as the measurements given are very much larger than those of the Sumatran individual examined.
The dimensions of the Goenong Soegi specimen are as follows : Total length .
.
66 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.7 " Length of mesonotum 16 " Length of metanotum (with median segment) 13 " Length of abdomen, 33 " Length of anterior femora (approximately), 13 ♦ " Length of anterior tibia^ 12 " Length of median femora, 9 " Length of posterior femora, 11 " Dixippus uniformis (Westwood).
1848.
Phasma (Lonchodes) uniforme Westwood, Cabinet Orient.
Entom., PI.
XXXIX, fig.
3.
[Prince of Wales' Island, Malacca.]
One male; Khow Sai Dow, Trong, Lower Siam, 1,000 feet elevation.
January-February, 1899.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. X. M.] This specimen has the mesothorax and the metathorax each with a broad median transverse band of rich grass green.
The distribution of the species is supposed to cover ^lalacca.
Sarawak and Amboina or Ceram.
Genus CARAUSIUS StM.
1875.
Carausius Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
8 and 64.
Li eluded C. stncmosus and C. macer Stal, of which the former may be considered the type.
Carausius bracatus n. sp.
Type.— 9 ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[Cat.
No.
6,979, U. S. N. M.] Apparently not closely allied to anjof the previously known species of the genus.
Size rather large; form elongate, subequal; surface of the head and body nodulose.
Head subequal in width; interspace between the eyes bearing a transverse fold, which is crossed by a slight median longitudinal sulcus, and developed into slight elevations laterally; posterior part of the head with four slight transversely disposed tubercles; eyes circular, moderatel}^ prominent; antenna?
witli the first joint depressed, elongate-ovate in outline, second joint moniliform and about one-third the length of the first.
Pronotum about a third again as long as broad ; posterior margin arcuate ; median transverse sulcus arcuate, longitudinal sulcus much less distinct.
Mesonotum about four and one-half times the length of the pronotum, subequal in width (except at the posterior articular portion).
Metanotum (with median segment) about twice the length of the head and pronotum; median segment equal to one-half of the metanotum alone.
Abdomen exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, subequal in width, apical segments wdth a median longitudinal carina, which become more distinct as the apex is approached ; ninth dorsal segment apparently tectate in life,* apex slightly sinuate; supra-anal plate produced, acuminate, tectate, the apex triangularly emarginate; subgenital plate rugulose, carinate, apex with a distinct finger-like median process.
Limbs of moderate length, all compressed, the anterior pair exceeding the others in size.
Anterior femora slightly over twice the length of the head and pronotum, compressed trigonal in section, each margin with a foliaceous carinate ridge, lower surface with the median carina prominent proximally, and bearing several dentiform serrations distally; tibise equal to the femora in length, strongly compressed, the dorsal portion bearing a marked foliaceous ridge, inferior surface widely and deeply sulcate; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, superior portion strongly cristate; remaining tarsal joints small, the apical one equal to the second and third in length.
Median femora equal to about two-thirds the length of the meson otum, compressed, dorsal portion strongly carinate ; tibise equal to the femora in length, pentagonal in section, external inferior carina with a basal arcuate expansion; metatarsi equal to the second, third and fourth tarsal joints together, dorsal surface not expanded.
Posterior femora two-thirds the length of the meson otum, compressed, dorsal aspect carinate, genicular lobes subacuminate, internal inferior carina apically expanded and bearing three distinct teeth; tibise equal to the metanotum and median segment in length, pentagonal in section, dorsal surface sulcate, basal portion of the inferior median and the apical portion of the dorsal carina roundly expanded ; metatarsi but slightly longer than the terminal tarsal joint, dorsal surface not crested.
General color .-ed-brown, becoming dull umber on the limbs and ashy-brown on the head.
* Distorted in the dried specimen.
Measurements.
Total length 125.5 mm.
Length of pronotum.
6 " Length of mesonotum, 2S " Jjength of metanotum (with median segment).
22 " Length of abdomen 65 " T^ength of anterior femora.
24 " Length of anterior tibiae.
24.2 " Length of median femora, LS " Length of posterior femora,, 20 " Carausius mammatus n. sp.
Type.— 9 ; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented bj^ Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
This new and interesting form exhibits some relationship with C. mercurius Stal,^ from an unknown locality, but differs in the form of the apical segments of the abdomen and the character of the expansion of the anterior tibise.
Kirby's Dixippus (?)
insidaiis'^ from Thursday Island appears to be related to the new form, but can be separated by a number of characters.
Size rather large; form moderately slender; surface evenly rugulose.
Head slightly contracted posteriorly; interocular region with a transverse ridge, incised centrally and laterally developed into acute erect dentiform processes; eyes rather small, subovate; tubercles on the posterior half of the head arranged in distinct longitudinal series ; antennae not quite equal to half the length of the body, the basal joint depressed, subovate, expanded, second joint half the length of the first.
Pronotum subequal in width, the anterior and posterior margins subtruncate, transverse median sulcus short.
Mesonotum slightly expanded posteriorly, a fine median carina present and extending a considerable distance on the abdomen.
Metanotum (with median segment) equal to two-thirds the length of the mesonotum, subequal in width ; median segment slightly more than two-thirds the length of the metanotum alone.
Abdomen with the three basal segments longitudinal, subequal in width; fourth segment with slight lateral expansions on the apical half, slightly exceeding the basal segments in width ; fifth segment strongly expanded and moderately inflated, the expansion greatest on the apical portion, dorsal surface with a pair of median transversely disposed mammillate tubercles ; sixth segment equal to the first in width, in length equal to the fifth, both segments being somewhat shorter than the basal ones; seventh, eighth and ninth segments ^ Annales Soc.
Entom.
Belg., Comp.-rend., XX, p. Ixxii.
^ Trans.
Linn.
Soc, 2d ser, zool., VI, p. 460. siibeqiial in width, tectate, the seventh ahiiost equal to the other two in length, apical margin with the median portion truncate; supra-anal plate moderately produced, truncate,, rounded; cerci very short, hardly visible ; subgenital opercule equal to the apex of the supra-anal plate in length, compressed, keeled, the posterior portion of the carina irregularly dentate.
Anterior femora slightly shorter than the mesonotum in length, compressed, the superior margin considerably expanded basally and undulate, inferior external margin apically with two distinct teeth, external genicular lobes acute ; anterior tibiae about equal in length to the femora, compressed, the superior margin with a continuous foliaceous expansion which develops a slight premedian lobe; metatarsi ecjual in length to the remaining tarsal joint, superiorly with a foliaceous expansion equal in height to that on the tibiae ; fifth tarsal joint almost equal in length to the second to fourth inclusive.
Median femora equal to the metanotum (with median segment) in length, slightly compressed, the internal inferior margin armed apically with two dentiform processes, external genicular lobes acute ; median tibiae shorter than the femora and equal to the fifth and sixth abdominal segments in length, inferior median carina with a low basal expansion/the superior carina with an apical bullate expansion of about equal height; metatarsi not equal to the length of the remaining joints, without any foliaceous expansion; fifth tarsal joint shorter than the second to fourth inchisive.
Posterior femora not quite reaching the middle of the third abdominal segment, moderately compressed, sulcate above, internal genicular lobes acute, lateral inferior margins armed apically with two spines, those on the internal margin prominent ; posterior tibiae exceeding the femora and almost equal to the mesonotum in length, median inferior carina with a low elongate foliaceous expansion at the extreme base, apex with a bullate expansion similar to the median tibiae; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, fifth tarsal joint equal to the second and third in length.
General color wood-brown, finely flecked with blackish, becoming semi-ochraceous on the anterior limbs and antennae, the latter with regiilarly disposed, usually incomplete annuli of blackish.
Measurements.
Length of body, 110 mm.
Length of pronotum, .... * 4.5 " Length of mesonotum, 24.5 " Length of metanotum (with median segment) 17 " Length of median segment, 7.5 " Measurements.
Length of abdomen, 59 mm.
I.iength of anterior femora, 22 " Length of anterior tibiae, 23 '' Length of median femora, 17 '' Length of posterior femora, 19.5 " Carausius obiensis n. sp.
Type.
— ?
; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
Allied to C. mammatits, but differing in the non-nodose fifth abdominal segment, the absence of large spines in the head and foliaceous expansions on the anterior metatarsi.
Size medium; form elongate; surface irregularly granulose.
Head rather short, subequal in width; interspace between the eyes with a few rather large granules, but no distinct spines; eyes moderately large, circular; antennae not equal to half the length of the body, basal joint rather elongate, twdce as long as broad, depressed, second joint not quite half the length of the first.
Pronotum longitudinal, somewhat compressed posteriorly; anterior margin truncate, posterior l^roadly arcuate; median transverse sulcus short.
Mesonotum slightly less than half the length of the abdomen, a median longitudinal carina present and continued to the apex of the al^domen.
Metanotum (including median segment) two-thirds the length of the mesonotum ; median segment tw^o-thirds the length of the metanotum alone, anterior margin obtuse-angulate.
Abdomen with supplementary lateral carinae in the apical portion; five basal segments longitudinal, subequal in lengih; sixth segment slightly shorter than the fifth ; seventh, eighth and ninth segments together about equal to the sixth in length, subequal in width, tectate; eighth and ninth segments transverse, each shorter than the somewhat longitudinal seventh; supra-anal plate tectate, carinate, the apical margin rounded; cerci depressed, broad, subacuminate, not equalling the apex of the supra-anal plate in length; subgenital opercule cymbiform, keeled, of moderate size, apex subacuminate but not exceeding the apex of the supra-anal plate, the median carina apically undulate.
Anterior femora equal to five-sixths the length of the mesonotum, moderately compressed, superior carina slightly expanded and undulate basally, external inferior carina bearing two preapical dentiform processes; anterior tibiae equal in length to the femora, compressed, superior carina developed into a rather low even lamellate ridge which divides apically and encloses a comparatively broad shallow sulcus, inferior median carina developed similar to the superior carina; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, Init slightly dilated superiorly; fifth tarsal joint equal to the second to fourth inclusive in length.
Median femora almost equal to the metanotum (with median segment) in length, external inferior margin armed apically with two dentiform processes; median tibia?
slightly shorter than the femora, apically with a slight tumidity, the inferior median carina with a low triangular basal expansion; metatarsi not quite equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, not dilated; fifth tarsal joint about equal to the second to fourth joints inclusive.
Posterior femora reaching to the base of the third abdominal segment, slightly compressed, internal inferior margin apically with two dentiform processes, internal genicular lobes spiniform; posterior tibia> equal to five-sixths the length of the mesonotum, slightly tumid at the apex, inferior median carina with a low triangular l^asal lobe ; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, not dilated; fifth tarsal joint equal to the second and third in length.
General color ochraceous-brown streaked with wood-brown, a line of the latter tint following the central line of the body, and reinforced on the metanotum and abdomen by lateral lines of the same tint.
Antennae ochraccous with usually imperfect annuli of blackish.
Limbs mottled with blackish-brown on the anterior pair, and rather solid purplish-brown on the posterior pair.
Measurements.
Length of body, 83 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 Length of mesonotum, 19.2 Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
.
13.5 " Length of median segment, 6 Length of abdomen, 44.5 Length of anterior femora, 17 Length of anterior tibiae, 17 Length of median femora, 12.5 Length of posterior femora, 14.5 Subfamily HETERONEMIN^ {Bacunculince) .
Genus HESPEROPHASMA Rehn.
1872.
Phantasis Saussure, Miss.
Scient.
Mexiq.
TAmer.
Cent., Orth., p. ISS.
(Not of Tliomson, 1860.)
1901.
Hesperophasma Rehn, Canad.
Entom., XXXIII, p. 271.
Type.
— By selection, Phasma plamdum Westwood.
Hesperophasma planulum (Westwood).
1859.
Phasma planulum Westwootl, Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 34, PI.
1, fig.
7.
[San Domingo.]
One female; no data.
[A. N. S. Phila.
» Genus CEROYS Serville."
1S39.
Ceroijs Serville, Orthopteres, p. 262.
Inchided perfoliatus Gray and multispiiiosus Serville, of which the former may be considered the type.
Ceroys bigibbus n. sp.
Type.— 9 ; Nicaragua.
[Cat.
Xo.
6,973, U. S. N. M.] Apparently closer related to C. rabdota Westwood than to any other species of the genus.
From this it may be separated by the spinose mesonotum, the comparatively shorter limbs, the absence of any very marked appendages to the basal abdominal segments, and the very different character of the apical segments of the abdomen.
Size medium; form rather elongate; surface rugulose, lobate and spinulose.
Head longitudinal; occiput with a pair of prominent earlike processes, the extreme posterior margin with a pair of blunt spiniform processes; eyes subspherical, moderately prominent; antennse about equal in length to the pronotum and mesonotum, basal joint strongly depressed.
Pronotum slightly longitudinal, saddle-shaped; surface strongly tuberculate, a distinct paired series extending on either side of the faint median longitudinal sulcus; anterior margin with a pair of medium size, rounded tubercles; posterior margin with a pair of very jDrominent spinous processes.
Mesonotum about four times the length of the pronotum, somewhat constricted anteriorly, slightly expanded centrally ; median portion with a pair of low transverse cariniform lobes; posterior margin with two small pairs of median rounded lobes; lateral borders with a row of low rounded fold-like tubercles.
Metanotum (with median segment) two-fifths the length of the mesonotum, immediately anterior to the median segment two low rourded lobes are developed; median segment very small, not one-fifth the length of the whole segment ; supra-coxal region of the metathoracic segment margined by a saw-like series of rounded lobules.
Abdomen slightly exceeding the thorax in length, the six basal segments all transverse or subtransverse, each segment with the posterior margin with two median pairs of lobules; sixth dorsal segment depressed, laterally supplied with rounded foliaceous expansions; seventh and eighth segments somewhat compressed, subcarinate, the posterior margins irregularly sinuate and serrate ; ninth segment strongly depressed posteriorly, tuberculate, apex with the median portion sinuate; supra-anal plate produced, convex, apex narrowly rounded ; subgenital opercule reaching slightly beyond the apex of the supra-anal plate, longitudinally striate, ' Stal's Caulonia {Recensio OrthojAerorum , III, p. 74, 1875) is apparently nothing more than a synonym of Serville's genus.
lateral borders emarginate, apex rectangulate.
Limbs rather short; all lobato to a greater or lesser extent.
Anterior femora three times the length of the pronotum, basal flexure occup^ang almost half the entire femur, superior margin with an apical dentate foliaceous lobe; tibiae about equal to the femora in length, superior margin with four rounded lobes, decreasing in size toward the apex; metatarsi short, exceeded in length by the terminal tarsal joint and about equal to the second and third together.
Median femora about equal to the anterior femora in length, posterior superior margin with a large bidentate apical lobe and several smaller ones distributed between the large one and the proximal extremity, anterior superior margin wdth several low rounded lobules, inferior margins with several low lobules and a median bidentate apical lobe; tibiae about equal to the femora in length, the superior margin with three lobules decreasing in size toward the apex ; metatarsi as in the anterior limbs.
Posterior femora equal to the four basal joints of the abdomen in length, the superior margin with three large subpyramidal lobes, the largest being bilobate and placed at the distal extremity, several small lobules are located between the larger lobes, inferior margins with several small low^ lobules, the apical larger than any of the others and strongly bilobate; posterior tibiae exceeding the femora by half the length of the fifth abdominal segment, superior surface with three rounded lobules, decreasing in size toward the distal extremity; metatarsi as in the anterior limbs.
General color brownish-black, becoming reddish-brown toward the apex of the abdomen ; antennae with the three terminal segments pale ochraceous.
Mcasiirouenfs.
Total length, 78 mm.
Length of pronotum, 5.5 '' Length of mesonotum, 22 " Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
.
9.5 '" Length of median segment L9 '" Length of abdomen 39 '" Length of anterior femora, 14.8" T>ength of anterior tibiae, 15.5 '" Length of median femora 12.5 '" Length of posterior femora, 16 There is a small female specimen from Tueurrique, Costa Rica, in the U. S. National ]\Iuseum collection, Avhich resembles very much the type of bigibbus.
A number of points of difference, however, exist.
but as these conditions in the specimen may be due to immaturity.
I 4 have provisionally determined it as this species.
The following is a brief diagnosis : Size small; form somewhat slenderer than in the type, but otherwise similar.
Head with the auricular appendages very prominent, the margins sinuate, about reaching the posterior margin of the head; eyes ovate.
Mesonotum with the median processes as in the type, but more pronounced; a distinct longitudinal median carina developed.
Metanotum with a distinct median carina; lateral margins with distinct sinuous carinse.
Abdomen as in the type, but all of the longitudinal plicae exaggerated; lateral lobes of the sixth dorsal segment not differing materially from that of the other specimen; seventh dorsal segment about equal to the sixth in length, tectate, strongly carinate; eighth and ninth segments subequal in length, supplied with a number of sinuous longitudinal rugse, the eighth apically supplied with a median pair of low rounded lobes, the ninth with the apical margin truncate; supra-anal plate moderately produced, rounded, hirsute ; cerci very short, simple, not extending beyond the apical margin of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment; subgenital opercule extending slightly beyond the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, carinate, apex rectangulate ; terminal ventral segment rectangulate; apex narrowly incised.
Limbs as in the type but stouter.
Measurements.
Total length, 46 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 " Length of mesonotum, 12 " Length of metanotum (with median segment), 6 " Length of median segment, 2.1 " Length of abdomen, 2.3 " Length of anterior femora, 9 " Length of anterior tibiffi, 8 " Length of median femora, 6.5 " Length of posterior femora, 9.5 " Genus DIAPHEROMERA Gray.
1S35.
Diapheromcra Gray, Synops.
Pliasm., pp.
13 and IS.
Type.
— Diaiphcromera sayi Gray = Spectrum jemoratum Say.
Diapheromcra calcarata (Burmeister).
1S3S.
B\acteria\ (Bacvnculus) calcarata Burmeister, Handb.
d. Entom.
II, p. 56G.
[Mexico.]
Four specimens, two males and two females : Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, Mexico, Jime 28, 1903.
(M. E.
Hoag.)
[A. X. S.
Phila.]
Guaymas.
Sonora, Mexico.
[U. S. N. M.] The iTi,ale of this species is, as noted by Saussure,* ahiiost identical with that of D. femorata, but the female can readily be distinguished by the comparatively robust limbs and short conoid cerci.
The female from Alta Mira is interesting, as it possesses two short spinous interocular processes, but is in every other detail perfectly typical of the species.
The male from Guaymas has the right anterior limb aborted.
Saussure has recorded this species from near Tampico.
Genus SERMYLE Stai.^ 1875.
Sermyle Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
23 and 76.
Type.
— As restricted,*** Acanthoderus mexicanus Saussure.
Sermyle physconia n. sp.
Types.
— c^ and 9 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
6,975, U. S. N. M.] Allied to S. mexicana (Saussure), but differing in the female in the reduced expansion of the fifth abdominal segment, the much longer sixth, and the less compressed seventh, eighth and ninth segments.
As the male of mexicana has been imperfectly described, comparison is hardly possible.
From S. cetolus (Westwood) it can readily be distinguished by the smaller size and shorter genital opercule.
d^ .
— Size medium ; form elongate ; surface subglabrous.
Head rather elongate, but slightly expanded anteriorly; interspace between the eyes with a pair of erect dentiform tubercles; eyes subcircular, decidedly prominent; antennae over twice the length of the anterior femora, basal joint depressed.
Pronbtum longitudinal, over half again as long as broad, median transverse sulcus deeply impressed.
Mesonotum slender, two and a half times the length of the head and pronotum together, subequal (except posteriorly), rounded.
Metanotum (with median segment) equal to three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, similar in shape to the mesonotum but more robust ; median segment subquadrate, equal to one-fifth the length of the metanotum alone.
Abdomen slender, elongate, all segments longitudinal; seventh segment compressed, but apically dilated; eighth segment slightly longitudinal, apically compressed, practically fused with the seventh; ninth segment slightly over half the length of the seventh, bullate, moderately expanded, apical margin with a comparatively deep median ^ Miss.
Scientifiq.
Mexiq., Orth., p. 165. '
The genus Pseudosermyle, created by Caudell {Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mas., XX^T, p. 867), includes the forms having trifid cerci in the male.
The Mexican Bacteria tridens Burmeister is accordingly a member of the genus Pseudosermyle.
No such foliaceous lobes are developed in this genus as are found in true Sermyle.
'» Vide Caudell, Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., XXVI, p. S67.
emargiiiation ; cerci very slightly incurved, apically decurvecl^ internal inferior margin with a blunt basal tubercle, surface strongly hirsute ; first segment of the genital opercule bearing a recurved claw-like process immediately before the apex; second segment of the opercule hastate.
Limbs slender, without distinct foliaceous expansions.
Anterior femora half again as long as the mesonotum, trigonal in section ; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in length, quadrate in section ; metatarsi considerably exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora equal in length to the mesonotum, slightly curved, subquadrate in section, genicular lobes triangular; tibise equal to the femora in length, compressed; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment, equal to the head, pronotiun and mesonotum in length, slightly curved, subquadrate in section; tibise slightly longer than the femora; metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color greenish-brown; limbs annulate with pale ochraceous.
9 .
— Form elongate, moderately robust; size medium; surface granulose.
Head somewhat elongate, strongly tuberculate; interspace between the eyes with a pair of erect foliaceous lobes, the margins of which are irregularly crenulate ; eyes subcircular, moderately prominent; antennae over twice the length of the anterior femora, basal joint depressed.
Pronotum longitudinal, slightly expanded posteriorly; median transverse sulcus distinctly marked.
Mesonotum about twice as long as head and pronotum together, subequal; median longitudinal carina distinctly marked, subobsolete posteriorly.
Metanotum (with median segment) about three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, subequal ; median segment about one-third as long as the metanotum itself, transverse.
Abdomen exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, subequal in width, surface longitudinally striate as well as tuberculate ; fifth segment with the median portion of the apical margin bearing a pair of small converging foliaceous lobes; sixth segment equal to the fifth in length, subequal to the latter in width ; seventh and ninth segments subequal in length, eighth transverse, apical margin of the ninth segment obtusely produced and with a broad V-shaped median emargination ; styles broad, depressed, somewhat produced apically; subgenital plate produced, reaching to the posterior margin of the eighth dorsal segment, carinate, apex subacuminate with a narrow triangular median emargination.
Limbs of rather slender build and but moderate length.
Anterior femora exceeding the length of the mesonotum by the length of the median segment, compressed in the apical two-thirds, subquadrate in section ; tibiae exceeding the femora by almost the length of the pronotum, quadrate in section; metatarsi very considerably exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora slightly exceeding the metanotnm (with median segment) in length, subquadrate in section, inferior margins with an irregularly rounded prebasal lobe, genicular lobes acuminate; tibiae subequal to the femora in length, quadrate in section; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora slightly exceeding the second to fourth abdominal segments in length, subquadrate in section; tibiae slightly longer than the femora in length, quadrate in section; metatarsi but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color yellowish-brown (green in life?
), becoming yellowishgreen on the limbs.
Measurements.
& ?
Total length, 63 mm.
76.3 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.6 " 4 " Length of mesonotum, 14.5 " 16.5 " Length of metanotum (with median segment), 12 " 12.5 " Length of abdomen, 33 " approx.
48 ** Length of anterior femora, .... 20.5 " 18.1 " Length of anterior tibiae, 22.5 " 21.5 " Length of median femora, 15 " 14.2 " Length of posterior femora, .... 19.5 " 20 " One additional female specimen from the type locality has also been examined.
It is considerably smaller than the type, but otherwdse perfectly identical.
Genus HETERONEMIA Gray."
1835.
Heteronemia Gray, Synopsis Spec.
Ins.
Fam.
Phasm., pp.
13 and 19.
Type.
— H. mexicana Gray.
Heteronemia yersiniana (Saussure).
1868.
Bacteria Yersiniana Saussure, Re\aie et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XX, p. 65.
[Porto Rico.]
One male; Utuado, Porto Rico, April 6, 1900.
(Dr. C. W. Richmond.)
[U. S. N. M.] ^^ There seems no escape from the substitution of this name for the species to which the time-honored name Bacunculus has been applied.
Gray's name has three years' priority, and though based on partially abnormal characters, its true position has been definitely shown by Westwood (Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, pp.
25-26).
Heteronemia ignava n. sp.
Types.
— c?
and 9 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
6,976, U. S. N. M.] Apparently closely related to H. mexicana Gray and H. striata (Burmeister), but differing from the former in the stouter body, longer limbs and different abdominal appendages in the male; and from striata in the shorter seventh abdominal segment in the male, and the different proportions of the three terminal segments in the female.
From H. festuca (GigHo-Tos), another ally, it can readily be .separated by the character of the female subgenital opercule, which is tridentate in festuca.
(S".
— Size rather small; form moderately slender, subequal; surface chiefly glabrous.
Head subequal, dorsal aspect bearing about fomlongitudinal rows of minute blunt tubercles; eyes very prominent; antennse rather robust, about equal to half the entire length, basal joint somewhat depressed, the greatest width basal.
Pronotum subequal in width, over half again as long as broad.
Meson otum very slightly expanded posteriorly, equal to the median femora in length.
Metanotum (with median segment) al^out three-fourths the length of the mesonotum; median segment slightly transverse, about one-fifth the total length of the metanotum.
Abdomen with the segments longitudinal, but about equal in width to the mesonotum; seventh dorsal segment slightly bullate apically and fused with the short eighth segment, the Hne of demarcation being hardly visible; ninth dorsal segment operculate, somewhat bullate, the apical margin with a deep V-shaped median emargination ; cerci but slightly shorter than the ninth segment, compressed, slightly decurved and provided with a dentiform point at the lower angle of the apical margin; subgenital opercule with the apical margin rounded, and provided with an acute ungual preapical hook.
Limbs rather short, femora and tibiae subquadrate in section, all unarmed.
Anterior femora and tibiae each equal to the pronotum, mesonotum and half of the head in length; metatarsi equal to the remaining joints in length.
Median femora and tibiae equal to the mesonotum in length; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora reaching to the apex of the fourth abdominal segment; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in length; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color pale greenish-yellow, becoming brownish on the limbs and apex of the abdomen; head with faint longitudinal bars of dull brown.
$ .
— Size rather small ; form slender, thoracic width greater than the abdominal wdclth; surface very sparsely and minutely tuberculate.
Head subequal in width, slightly larger than the pronotum, surface bearing longitudinal rows of minute tubercles; eyes prominent; antennae exceeding half the length of head and body, basal joint slightly depressed, subequal in width.
Pronotum subequal in width, twice as long as broad.
Mesonotum equal in length to the posterior femora, subequal in width, bearing a faint longitudinal carina which extends to the apex of the abdomen.
Metanotum (with median segment) about three-fourths the length of the mesonotum; median segment subquadrate, equal to one-fifth the length of the metanotum alone.
Abdomen with the segments strongly longitudinal, not equalling the thoracic segments in width, seventh dorsal segment tectate, about equal in length to the eighth and ninth together; ninth segment strongly tectate, carinate, the apical margin with a small triangular emargination ; styles projecting beyond the ninth dorsal segment by slightly OA'er half the length of the latter, compressed, apex rounded; subgenital opercule slightly exceeding the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment in length, apex subacuminate, the preapical portion with a short ungual process.
Limbs rather short, the femora and tibiae subequal in length.
Anterior femora equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora slightly longer than the metanotum (with median segment); tibiae slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi not quite equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Posterior femora reaching to the middle of the fourth abdominal segment; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints.
General color dull olive-brown, the limbs obscurely annulate with very dull ochraceous; tubercles on head and thoracic segments milk}' white.
MeasiiremerUs.
Total length 50.5 mm.
54 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.2 " 2.5 " Length of mesonotum, n.5 " 12.2 " Length of metanotum (including median segment), " 9 '' 10 " Length of abdomen, 26 " 28.5 " Length of anterior femora.
....... 15.5 " 14.5 " Length of anterior tibiae, 15 " 14 . "
Length of median femora 11.2 " 10.5 " Leng-th of posterior femora, 13.5 " 12.5 " Three female topotypes of this forin a.s:roe perfectly with the type, except that two of them are shghtly hghter in color, much as in the male.
This is, of course, of little consequence, being due entirely to the condition of the specimen.
A smaller female from Atcnas, Costa Rica, is greenish-white in color, but otherwise is perfectly typical.
Genus OREOPHOETES n. gen.12 Allied to Heteronemia, but distinguished by the peculiar structure of the apical abdominal segments and the shape of the pronotum.
Pronotum slightly longitudinal, the anterior angles considerably produced, rounded; median transverse suture very distinct; posterolateral angles depressed.
Abdomen comparatively short, the basal segments but slightly longitudinal; sixth dorsal segment compressed, carinate ; seventh dorsal segment very slightly shorter than the sixth, carinate, rather bullate apically; eighth segment slightly longer than the sixth segment, slightly depressed, carinate ; ninth segment transverse, apex with broad triangular emargination ; cerci subequal in width, slightl}^ longer than the ninth dorsal segment.
Sixth ventral abdominal segment compressed, carinate; seventh compressed, carinate, about half the length of the sixth ; eighth segment about half the length of the seventh, compressed but not carinate; subgenital opercule bullate, equal in length to the eighth dorsal segment, apex rotundato-truncate, apical margin strongly reflexed, forming a yexy distinct rim.
Limbs elongate, unarmed.
Type.
— Bacteria peruana Saussure.
Oreophoetes peruana (Saussure).
1868.
Bacteria Peruana Saussure, Re^^.le et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XX, p. 65.
[Peru.]
One -male; Piches and Perene A'alleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet.
(Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.)
[U. S. N. M.] This species has been recorded by Saussure from the plateau of Peru, beside the very broad type locality.
Genus DYME StSl.
1875.
Dyme Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
24 and 77.
Type.
— Di/me hify^ons Stal.
Dyme bifrons StM?
1S75.
D[i/7ne] bijrons Stal, Recen.<io Orthopterorum, III, p. 77.
[Peru.]
One male; Piches and Perene Valleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet.
(Soc.
Geog.
de Lima.)
[U. S. N. M.] While this specimen is but two-thirds the size of the type male of bifrons, the proportions are about the same.
The eighth dorsal ^'^ ovpso(l)<)iTnr, mounfoin nym ph.
in allusion to the locality of the type species.
abdominal segment exhibits no such character as "anguhs posticis in dentem sat longum productis instructo/' and for that reason I have queried the determination, ahhough the specimen fully agrees otherwise .
Genus CALYNDA Stdl.
1875.
Calynda Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum.
Ill, pp.
24 and 78.
Type.
— C. bicuspis Stal.
Calynda bicuspis StM.
187.5.
C[alynda] hicuspis Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 78.
[Chiriqui.]
One female; Tucurriciue, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[U. S. N. M.] This specimen is considerably larger than Stal's type, but agrees absolutely with the diagnostic characters given by him.
A character apparently overlooked by Stal is the presence of a rounded foliaceous lobe on the basal portion of the inferior lateral carinas of the median femora.
Genus BOSTEA StM.
1875.
Bostra Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
Handlingar, bd.
2, No.
17, p. 6.
Type.
— Bacteria turgida Westwood.
Bostra incompta n. sp.
Type.
— d^; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
6,977, U. S. N. M.] Apparently closer related to B. turgida (Westwood) than to B. dorsuaria Stal, From turgida it differs in the very much greater size and the shape of the terminal abdominal segments.
From dorsuaria it can readily be distinguished by the unarmed head and smaller size.
Size large; form very slender and elongate ; surface glabrous.
Head rather short, very slightly longer than the pronotum, subequal in width ; eyes circular, not prominent ; antennae about equal to the body in length, basal joint oblong, scarcely depressed.
Pronotum subequal in width, half again as long as broad.
Mesonotum slightly shorter than the median femora, slender and subequal except for a slight posterior expansion.
Metanotum (with median segment) not cjuite threefourths the length of the mesonotum, scarcely wider than the mesonotum; median segment equal to over two-thirds the length of the metanotum itself.
Abdomen with the six basal segments elongate, all at least three times as long as broad, the length of segments decreasing toward the apex; seventh dorsal segment somewhat bullate.
slightly longer than broad; eighth segment equal to the seventh in length, compressed, lateral portions produced inferiorly, the margins roimded except the posterior angle which is slightly acuminate; ninth dorsal segment very slightly longer than broad, somewhat bullate.
apical margin truncate with a very broad shallow median emargination ; cerci rather small, slightly clavate, curved ; subgenital opercule not quite equalling the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, large, compressed, tectate, apical portion with a longitudinal keel which develops a blunt point below and slightly posterior to the superior margin.
limbs very slender and elongate, carinate, unarmed.
Anterior femora equal to the head, pronotum and meson otum in length; tibise exceeding the femora by the length of the head and pronotum; metatarsi slight!
}exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora equal to the mesonotum in length ; tibia exceeding the femora by the length of the pronotum; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Posterior femora reaching to the apex of the fourth abdominal segment : tibiae exceeding the femora by about half the length of the first abdominal segment ; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color brownish-olive, dark in the genicular regions and pale on the head, pronotum, apex of the abdomen and proximal portions of the femora.
Measurements.
Total length, 107^ mm.
Length of pronotum 3.7 Length of mesonotum, ,27 Length of metanotum (with median segment), .... 20 " Length of abdomen, 56 " Length of anterior femora 34.5 " Length of anterior tibiae, 42 " Length of median femora, 28 " Length of posterior femora, 33.5 " Two additional specimens of this species have been examined, one a topotype, the other from Piedras Negras, Costa Pica.
They agree perfectly with the type in structure and coloration.
Bostra remiformis n. sp.
Type.
— 2 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
6,978, U. S. N. M.] Apparently not allied to the only species of the genus, B. turgida Westwood, known from the female.
It does not appear to be the female of any of the species based on the opposite sex.
From the female of B. turgida it differs in the non-spinous body, the triangularly emarginate apex of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, the very different cerci, and the unarmed limbs.
Size medium; form very slender and elongate; surface subglabrous.
Head rather elongate, narxowed posteriorly; eyes subcircular, not prominent; antennae slightly exceeding half the length of the body, filiform, basal joint moderately depressed.
Pronotum about twice as long as broad.
Mesonotum about equal in length to the posterior femora.
Metanotum (with median segment) not quite three-fourths the length of the mesonotum ; median segment two-thirds the length of the metanotum itself.
Abdomen with six basal segments subequal in length; seventh, eighth and ninth segments sharply tectate.
the seventh slightly exceeding either of the others in length, ninth with the apical margin with a liroad rounded median emargination, exposing the rounded apex of the supra-anal plate; cerci elongate, depressed, paddle-shaped, slightly exceeding the ninth segment in length, apex rounded; subgenital opercule short, not reaching to the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, apex triangular produced, the preapical portion developing a recurved ungual process.
limits of moderate length, strongly carinate and compressed.
Anterior femora slighth^ exceeding the mesonotum in length ; tibise slightly exceeding the femora in length; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora about five-sixths the length of the mesonotum ; tibiae about equal to the femora in length ; metatarsi equalled in length by the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora equal to three and a half of the fourth basal abdominal segments; tibise equal to the four basal segments; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color yellowish-brown (probably green in life), very pale on the anterior limbs.
Measurefnents.
Total length, 78 mm.
Length of pronotum 3 " Length of mesonotum, 18.1 " Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
.
13.5 " Length of abdomen (including cerci), 41.2 " Length of anterior femora, 20 '' Length of anterior tibise, 21.5 " Length of median femora, 15.5 " Length of posterior femora, 19 " Genus ONCOTOPHASMA n. gen.
Type.
— Bostra martini Griffini.
Body of medium build ; pronotum for the greater part slenderer than the abdomen.
Metathorax strongly inflated and rugose; the tumid section involving the pleura as well as the dorsal portion, but not the metasternum, which is, however, strongly rugose; anterior portion of the nietathorax not inflated.
Median segment half again as long as broad, about equal to half the length of the metanotum itself.
Anterior and median limbs without prominent spines, except the genicular lobes of the median femora which are spiniform, and two median apical spines on the inferior surface of the same limbs.
Posterior femora inflated, armed along the median inferior carina with seven or eight distinct spines, the apical ones of large size, genicular lobes spiniform; tibise with the carinse serrulate, the inferior pair also provided with dentiform spines.
This genus is near Bostra, but can be separated by the swollen metathorax and enlarged and strongly armed posterior femora.
It will include Bostra podagrica Stal,^^ which has all the characters of Oncotophasma except the swollen metathorax, the character of which Stal does not mention.
The two genera may be separated as follows: Males.
A.
— Posterior femora unarmed ; intermediate femora not spined apically, Bostra Stal.
AA.
— Posterior femora strongly spinose ; intermediate femora apically bispinose, Oncotophasma Rehn.
Oncotophasma martini (GrifEni).
1896.
B[ostra]]Mar(ini Griffini, Bollettino del Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia comparata, XI, No.
236, p. 10, fig.
[Forests by the lagoon of Pita, Darien, Colombia.]
One male; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[U. S. N. M.] Genus CLONISTSIA Stil.
1875.
Clonistria Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.
Akad.
Handlingar, Band 2, No.
17, p. 6.
Type.^ — Clonistria hartholomaa Stal.
Clonistria linearis (Drury)?
1770.
[Mantis] linearis Drury, III.
Nat.
Hist.
Exot.
Ins., I, p. 130, and Append., PI.
L, fig.
3.
[Antigua.]
One male; Jamaica.
[U. S. N. M.] As considerable uncertainty has prevailed regarding the identity of Drury's linearis, a question which cannot satisfactorily be settled without a study of Antiguan material, I have queried the determination.
The specimen in hand has the under surface of the head marked with ^^ Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 79 blackish, while the whole upper surface is dull greenish more or less distinctly overcast with brownish.
J Subfamily BACTERIN^ {PalopUnce Kirby").
Genus CLADOMORPHUS Gray.
1835.
Cladomorphus Gray, Synop.
Ins.
Fam.
Phasmid., p. 15.
Type.
— As restricted by Serville, C. phyllinus Gray.^^ Cladomorphus phyllinus Gray.
183.5.
C[ladomorphtis] phyllinus Grav, Syiiop.
Ins.
Fam.
Phasmid., p. 15 [Brazil.]
One female; San Antonio dc Jesu, Brazil.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen is equal to the measurements given by Saussure.^® I have adopted the above generic and specific names in preference to Phihalosoma lepeletierii, agreeing with Kirby" that page prioritj' should be applied to this case, regardless of usage as to one sex having a systematic value superior to the other.
Genus PTERINOXYLUS Serville.
1839.
Pterinoxylvs ServiUe, Orthopteres, p. 226.
Type.
— P. difformipes Serville ( = Haplopus eucnemis Burmeister).
Pterinoxylus eucnemis (Burmeister)?
1838.
H[npJopus\ eucnernis Burmeister, Handb.
d.
Entom., II, p. 577.
[Interior Brazil.]
Three specimens, all immature ; two males, one female ; Tucurrique and Turrialba, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[U. S. N. M.] This series, while all immature, range in size from 46 to 93 millimeters in total length, and agree perfectly with each other in the character of the lobes and nodes.
The figure of Burmeister's type given by Westwood^^ appears to represent a form having the lobes more rounded and not so distinctly acuminate as in the Costa Rican individuals.
Genus BACTERIA Lepeletier and Serville.
1827.
Bacteria Lepeletier and Serville, Encj'clop.
Method., Ins., X, p. 445.
Type.
— Mantis ferula Fabricius { = arumatia Stoll)."
^* As T have not had the opportunity to examine more than a single specimen of the genera which Kirby (Trans.
lAnn.
Soc.
London, 2dser., VI, p. 464) transferred to tlie Heteronemince {Bacunculince Auct.
), I have not accepted his action.
It is very evident that Bacteria at least is closely related to the Heteronemince, but Kirby's remarks are so brief that we glean little regarding the characters on which he proposes the removal.
^^ Of the four original species of the genus but one (perfoliatus) has been removed, and that to Ceroys by Serville in 1S39.
'* Recerch.
Zool.
I'Amer.
Cent., Mexiqne, Orth., p. ISO. ''
Proc.
Royal Dublin Soc., n. s., VI, p. .571.
'« Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, PI.
XXXVI, fig.
1.
'* The name Bacteria was first used in the Latin form by Lepeletier and SerBacteria cubensis (Saussure).
1S6S.
Phyhalomma Cvbensis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XX, p. 67.
[Cuba.]
One female; Baracoa, Cuba, February 4, 1902.
(William Palmer.)
[U. S. N. M.] As the female of this species has never before been recorded, a description may prove of interest.
Size medium; form elongate; surface smooth.
Head somewhat longitudinal, depressed, posterior portion constricted; interocular region with several transverse depressions; occiput with a fine longitudinal sulcus; eyes globose, very prominent; antennse not quite half as long as the body, basal joint elongate-depressed.
Pronotum longitudinal, almost twice as long as broad ; transverse median depression slightly in ad^^ance of the middle ; anterior portion with a transverse depression immediately posterior to the anterior margin ; longitudinal median carina slight.
IMesonotum nearly six times as long as the pronotum, subequal in width except for a shght anterior constriction and a moderate expansion in the supra-coxal region.
Metanotum (with median segment) three-fifths the length of mesonotum; median segment occupying about three-fifths the length of the whole segment.
Abdomen about equal to the thorax in length; four basal segments longitudinal, equal in size; fifth dorsal segment somewhat inflated apically; sixth segment compressed, tectate, carinate, slightly shorter than the preceding segments in length ; seventh and eighth segments subequal in size, tectate, carinate, the posterior portion of the carina produced into a small rounded process ; ninth segment about equal to the eighth in length, tectate, carinate, the lateral aspects each bearing a low boss-like rounded swelling, apical margin with a very shallow emargination, exposing the extreme tip of the supra-anal plate ; cerci not half the length of the ninth dorsal segment, acuminate ; subgenital opercule elongate, attenuate, apex decidedly acuminate, reaching to the apex of the ninth dorsal segment.
Anterior femora and tibiae compressed, each almost equal to the mesonotum in length; metatarsi equal to the remaining joints in length, superior surface with a distinct foliaceous crest.
Median femora and tibise somewhat ville, but is usually credited to Latreille.
liatreille (Fam.
Nat.
Regn.
Anim., p, 412, 1825) published simply the French form Bacterie, and included no species under it.
In 1807, Latreille (Gen. Crust, et Insect., Ill, pp.
87-88) divided the stnus Phasma into two sections, the first of which he subdivided, and it was on tlie second division of tlie first section that Lepeletier and Serville based their genus.
This division included three species, all of Fabricius, filiformis, ferula and calamus.
As the identification of these names is rather uncertain, I have selected ferula as the type, as it is usually considered a synonym of arumatia Stoll.
wliich is based on a figure.
compressed, each slightly exceedmg the metanotum in length; metatarsi about as long as the remaining tarsal joints, not cristate.
Posterior femora somewhat compressed, equal to the three basal abdominal joints in length; tibiae equal to the first three and half of the fourth basal abdominal segments; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color gray-brown, the pronotum grayish ochraceous, head with an indistinct blackish postocular bar.
Measurements.
Total leng-th, 82.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.5 " Length of mesonotum, 23.7 '' Length of metanotum (with median segment), .... 14 " Length of median segment, 8 " Ivength of abdomen, 38 Length of anterior femora, 22.1 Length of anterior tibise, 22 Length of median femora, 14.5 " Length of posterior femora, 17.9 Genus APLOPUS Gray.
1835.
Aplopus Gray, Synop.
Ins.
Fam.
Phasmid., p. 34.
Type.
— A. micropterus (Lep.
and Serv.)
( = Phasma angulata Stoll).
Aplopus oytherea Westwood.
1859.
Haplopus Cyiherea Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 86, PL XVIII, fig.
5.
[San Domingo, Haiti.]
Two specimens, male and female; "West Indies."
[U. S. N. M.] As the female of this species was previously unknown, a description of the same is here appended.
Size large; form elongate; surface of the thoracic segments sparsely spinous.
Head with the pair of occipital spines very prominent, the left considerably smaller than the right; eyes globose; antennee equal to the head and thorax in length, basal joint of comparatively small size.
Pronotum shghtly longer than broad, in general shape similar to the male, the anterior pair of spines reduced in size and hardly larger than a posterior pair.
Mesonotum about four times the length of the pronotum, rather narrow anteriorly, very gradually expanding posteriorly; spines disposed as in the male, but much less salient ; mesosternum with an armature of obsolete spines disposed as in the male.
Metanotum shghtly more than half the length of the mesonotum.
Tcgmina slightly more than one-third the length of the mesonotum, ovate, coriaceous, with the venation very distinct and irregularly disposed ; median protiiberance longitudinal; rounded.
Wings almost twice the length of the tegmina; costal and discoidal regions coriaceous and subreticulate as in the tegmina.
Abdomen with the segments distinctly longitudinal ; sixth dorsal segment some^^'hat expanded; seventh segment compressed, almost equal to the sixth in length; eighth and ninth segments subequal in length and width, together but slightly longer than the seventh segment, the ninth carinatc and with the apex sinuate ; supraanal plate small, transverse, subtriangular, not half the length of the ninth dorsal segment; cerci short, conoid, not as long as the supra-anal plate; subgenital plate cyml^iform, carinate, elongate, exceeding the apex of the supra-anal plate by the length of the fifth and sixth abdominal segments, apex narrowly rounded.
Anterior femora three-fourths the leng-th of the mesonotum, basal flexure sharp; tibise slightly longer than the femora; metatarsi somewhat shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora equal to the anterior femora in leng-th.
inferior surface with three spines on the apical portion of the mediai: line, the anterior and posterior margins each apically with a single spine; tibia?
about equal to the femora in length; metatarsi hardly more than half the leng-th of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora exceeding the other femora and equal to the first, second and half of the third basal abdominal segments in length, anterior inferior margin with two apical spines, median line of the inferior surface witl> three spines, posterior inferior margin with a single apical spine; tibiaslightly exceeding the femora in length; metatarsi but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color (from spirits) vinaceous brown, metathorax with thi pleura bearing a longitudinal whitish bar, a style of coloration alsr< found on the lateral portions of the base of the subgenital opercule.
Measurejnents.
Total length, 128 ^ mn: Length of pronotum, 5.7 '" Length of mesonotum, 27.5 '' Length of metanotum (including median segment), .
.
.
15.7 " Length of tegmina, 10 '" Length of wings, 12.5 '" Length of abdomen (including subgenital opercule), ... 79 " Length of subgenital opercule, 27.5 '' Length of anterior femora, 19.5 '' Length of anterior tibiae, ' 20.5 '' Length of median femora, 19 '" Length of posterior femora 23 Aplopus similis n. sp.
Types.
— c?
(immature) and 9 ; Swan Island, Caribbean Sea.
[Cat.
No.
7,343, U. S. N. M.] Closely allied to A. ligia Westwood,^''' but differing in the much shorter antenna, longer mesonotum and posterior limbs, the different character of the lateral expansions of the sixth abdominal segment, and the decidedly shorter subgenital opercule.
c?.
— Size medium; form rather elongate.
Head slightly longitudinal; occiput with two large acute spines of Avhich the right is the larger, posterior margin of the head with a pair of small median spines ; eyes subglobose; antennae stout, somewhat depressed, slightly exceeding in length the head, pronotum and mesonotum, basal joint oblong, strongly depressed.
Pronotum slightly longitudinal, anterior margin concave, posterior margin convex, lateral margins with a very prominent and deep semicircular emargination ; transverse sulci two in number, one prominent and immediately posterior to the anterior margin, the other submedian and shallower in character ; anterior half of the pronotum with two pairs of spines, the anterior of which is more distinct than the posterior, the remaining portion of the surface granulate.
Mesonotum equal to the three basal abdominal segments; anterior portion constricted, gradually expanding to near the median portion, which is equal to the posterior width ; surface with five pairs of irregularly placed spines, two pairs being very close to the anterior margin, while more than the posterior third of the whole surface is free from spines ; lateral margins with an even row of low tubercles ; mesothoracic pleura w^ith a number of subobsolete protuberances ; mesosternum with four pairs of low evenly placed tubercles.
Metanotum about two-thirds the length of the mesonotum, median segment occupying very slightly more than half the length; metasternum with a few very obsolete tubercles.
Tegmina and wings not developed, the rudiments very small.
Abdomen considerably exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length: five basal segments longitudinal, simple, the fourth and fifth slightly shorter than the first to third; sixth segment longitudinal, slightlyshorter than the fifth in length, the posterior lateral portions developed into smaller triangular lobes; seventh segment slightly shorter than the sixth; eighth and ninth segments smaller than the preceding segments, equal in length, both carinate, apical portion of the ninth truncate and with a distinct thickened elevated rim; cerci short, thick and rounded, but slightly exceeding the apex of the ninth segment; subgenital opercule large, slightly exceeding the eighth dorsal segment 20 Catul.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 89, PI.
XI, figs.
1 and 2. in length.
Limbs distinctly carinate.
Anterior femora equal to the metanotum and half of the first abdominal segment in length, basal flexure very marked, median line of the inferior surface with two apical spines; tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, the superior surface with a slight distal swelling ; metatarsi but little shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora somewhat shorter than the anterior femora, superior margins each with a slight preapical Idbe, anterior and posterior inferior margins serrulate, the former with two preapical spines, the latter with one, inferior median line with four evenly distributed spines; tibiae not quite equalling the femora in length, distinct subbasal and preapical swellings developed; metatarsi about half the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora but slightly shorter than the mesonotum in length, slight superior preapical lobes developed as in the anterior limbs, spine arrangement as in the median limbs except that the median line bears five spines; tibiae equal to the femora in length, the swellings of the median limbs but slightly represented ; metatarsi about two-thirds the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
?
.
— Size large; form elongate.
Head slightly ovate; occipital processes acute, much as in the male, but large and distinct ; spines on the posterior margin of the head small but acute; eyes subglobose; antennae about equal to the thoracic segments in length, filiform, basal joint depressed and with the lower surface concave.
Pronotum about equal to the head in length; margins as in the male; spines numerous and rather regularly distributed, of moderate height, the anterior pair slightly exceeding the others in size.
Mesonotum slightly exceeding the three basal joints of the abdomen in length, general shape very similar to that of the male ; surface with numerous spines of not very regular distribution, a defined lateral row of evenl}^ sized spines being present; mesothoracic pleura well spined; mesosternum with over twelve rather low spines.
Metanotum not quite equal to the two basal abdominal segments in length; median segment equal to the first abdominal segment in length; metathoracic pleura with a longitudinal row of about nine rather even spines.
Tegmina rather more than half the length of the metanotum (including median segment), ovate, coriaceous; median protuberance low, rounded; venation very apparent, subreticulate.
Wings equal to the tegmina in length, costal and discoidal areas subreticulate as in the tegmina.
Abdomen with the segments all more or less longitudinal; five basal segments subequal in length; the first, second and third with a median pair of small spiniform processes placed close to the apical margin; sixth.
segment slightly shorter than the fifth, slightly amplicate, the lateral margins gently rounded; seventh segment compressed, equal to the sixth in length ; eighth and ninth segments together about equal in length to the preceding segment, the ninth with the apical margin rectangulate, the apex with a triangular emargination exposing the rectangulate and carinate apex of the supra-anal plate ; cerci very stout and short, depressed, not exceeding the apex of the ninth dorsal segment, subgenital opercule very long, exceeding the tip of the supra-anal plate by the length of the seventh and eighth segments, hastate, carinate, apex rectangulate.
Anterior femora three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, basal flexure decided; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi not quite as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora equal to the first two basal segments of the abdomen in length, anterior and posterior inferior margins as in the male, the inferior median line with five or six spines ; tibiae equal to the femora in length, the structiu"e similar to that of the male but less apparent ; metatarsi but little more than half the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora equal to the first two and a half of the third abdominal segments, the margins as in the male, the inferior median line with five or six spines ; tibiae equal to the femora in length and with the structure very similar; metatarsi shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color (from spirits) dull ochraceous, the nine prominent spines tipped with black; tegmina with the venation dull cream on a blackish ground; wings with the costal and discoidal areas similar to the tegmina, posterior field pearl-white with the nerves purplishblack.
Measurements.
6" 9 ■ Total length, 78 mm.
134 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " 6.5 " Length of mesonotum, 17.5 " 29.5 " Length of metanotum (including median segment), 11.5 " 17 " I^ength of median segment, 6 " 9.5 " Length of tegmina, 10 " Length of wings, 10 " Length of abdomen, 42 " 82 " Length of anterior femora, 14 '' 21.5 '' Length of anterior tibiae, 13.7 " 22.5 " Length of median femora, ' 12.7 " 18.7 " Length of posterior femora, 15.5 " 24.5 " Length of subgenital opercule (from extreme base), 28.5 " Aplopus achalus"' n. sp.
Type.— d" ; Acljuntas, Porto Rico, April 12, 1900.
(Dr. C. W. Richmond.)
[Cat.
No.
7,344, U. S. N. M.] Compared with jamaicensis Drurj^, the closest allied species, this new form may be separated by the unarmed head and mesonotum, the longer tegmina, the slenderer and weaker Hmbs, and the coloration.
It appears very unhkely that this is the male of angulata St oil {=micropterus Lep.
and Serv.
), as the female of that species has very prominent cephahc spines, and in all respects resembles the females of other species of the genus, the known males of which are very different from this in structure.
Stoll's species was recorded from Porto Rico by Haan,22 but there appears no likelihood that this new form is at all closely allied to it.
Size rather small; form moderately elongate; surface subglabrous.
Head ovate, depressed; occiput without spines; eyes subglobose.
Antennse equal to the head, thorax and tegmina in length, robust, filiform, basal joint depressed, the inferior siu-face concave.
Pronotum subquadrate, somewhat constricted posteriorly, anterior margin concave, the posterior convex; transverse anterior sulcus obsolete centrally, transverse median sulcus distinct, strongly impressed, longitudinal median sulcus slight, not extending the whole length of the pronotum.
Mesonotum slightly over three times the length of the pronotum, gradually expanding posteriorly, surface with several irregular obsolete tubercles.
Metanotum equal to the mesonotum in length; metathoracic pleura and metasterniun rugulose; the whole metathorax depressed.
Tegmina equal to the mesonotum in length, acute-oVate; median protuberance somewhat longitudinal, acute.
Wings long, reaching to the seventh abdominal segment.
Abdomen with all the segments more or less longitudinal, gradually decreasing in size from the base to the sixth segment ; sixth and following segments distinctly carinate and tectate; seventh and eighth segments of the same general form, the latter slightly the shorter; ninth segment slightly shorter than the eighth segment, somewhat constricted toward the apex, apical margin subtruncate with a very broad and shallow median emargination ; cerci about two-thirds the length, subequal, apex blunt ; subgenital opercule very slightly exceeding the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, cymbiform, carinate, apex rounded with a narrow median triangular emargination.
Anterior femora equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length, basal flexure 21 axay^og, i.e., unarmed.
^'^ Verhandl.
Natuurl.
GescMed.
Nederl.
Overzeesche Bezitt., Orth., p. 103, 1842. strongly marked; tibise slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi but slightly more than half the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora a trifle longer than the tegmina, anterior inferior margin with two and the posterior inferior margin with one apical spine, median line with one spine which is more or less obsolete ; tibiae considerably shorter than the femora and almost equalling the mesonotum in length; metatarsi equalled in length by the second and third tarsal joints.
Posterior femora equal to the first, second and half of the third abdominal segment, anterior inferior margin with two and the posterior with one apical spine, median line with two subapical spines; tibiae about three-fourths the length of the femora; metatarsi equal to the second, third and fourth tarsal joints in length.
General color pale yellowish-green, "washed with brownish on the head, pronotum and mesonotum; tegmina and wings with the veins darker than the basic color, costal margin of the tegmina and the base of the same region of the wing opaque-white, discoidal area of the tegmina smoky-brown, posterior field of the tegmina milkywhite; antennae and an obscure postocular bar pale purplish; marginal femoral spines black.
Measurements.
achalus jamaicensis & d Total length, 61.5 mm.
65 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " 3 " Length of mesonotum 9 " 9.5 " Length of tegmina, 10 " 8.2 '' Length of wings, 39 " 36.5 " Length of anterior femora, 11.8 " 11.5 " Length of anterior tibiae, 10 " 10 " Length of median femora, 11 " 10 " Lengthof posterior femora, 14.8 " 13.5 " Genus ISCHNOPODA Grandidier.
1869.
Ischnopoda Grandidier, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XXI, p. 293.
• Type.
— /.
reyi Grandidier.
Ischnopoda phillipsi Kirby.
1897.
Ischnopoda Phillipsi Kirby, Trans.
Linn.
Soo.
London, 2d ser., VI, p. 467.
[Somaliland.]
1901.
Palophus reyi Rehn (not of Auct.
), Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1901, p. 288.
[Somaliland or Gallaland ; no exact data.]
The individual recorded by the author in the above-mentioned paper is seen on second examination to be distinct from reyi, and appears to be identical with Kirby's phillipsi.
A few discrepancies exist, however, in the measurements, the posterior femora of the type being eleven millimeters shorter than that of the specimen collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, in the collection of the Academy.
Genus BACTRODODEMA St&l.
1859.
Bactrododema Stal, Ofver, K, Vetensk.-Akad.
Forhandl., 1858, p. 308. .
Type.— 5. tiarata Stales Bactrododema miliaris Bolivar?
1890.
B[actrododema] miliaris Bolivar, Jornal Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Acad.
Real Sci., Lisboa, 2a ser., I, p. 87.
[San Thom^, West Africa.]
One female; Gaboon river.
West Africa.
(Dr. Henry A.
Ford.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen does not wholly agree with Bolivar's description of the species, differing in the bowed median and posterior femora, in which respect it approaches B. welwitschi Bolivar (ibid., p. 88) from Golungo Alto, but from that is separated by the character of the cephalic spines and the longer wings.
Westwood's cestuans appears to be a very distinct form.
Genus TIRACHOIDEA Brunner.
1893.
Tirachoidea Brunner, Ann.
Mu^.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, 2a ser., XIII, p. 83.
Included Phibalosoma cantori Westwood, Ph.
Mjpharpax Westw., Ph.
tiarchus Westw.
and Cyphocrania tamyris Westw., of which the first, cantori, may be taken as the type, as both sexes are known.
Tirachoidea cantori (Westwood).
1859.
Phibalosoma Cantori Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 74, PI.
XXXVII, fig.
1 (J'), and PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
1 ( ?
).
[Malacca.]
One male ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] This specirnen agrees perfectly with Westwood's figure, except that the ninth abdominal segment is very slightly shorter and the two arms of the same less curved.
23 As some orthopterists do not recognize this genus as distinct from Palophus Westwood, and both names being ostensibly published in 1859, the author examined the works containing each, to ascertain, if possible, which had priority.
St&l's work was presented for publication in 1858, but obviously did not appear until 1859, the copy of the work in the librarj^ of the Academy having been received May 22, 1860 ; and while the Proceedings of the Entomological Society of London give no clue as to the date of receipt of the 1858 volume, the 1859 volume is stated to have been received during 1860.
Assuming the numbers to have a))peared regularly, this would place the 1858 portion as appearing during 1859.
Westwood's work, bearing the date June 1, 1859, on the Preface, was received at the Academy January 10, 1860, but is not mentioned in the Proceedings of the Entomological Society of London until August 6, 1860.
In the Proceedings of the.
Boston Society of Natural History, the 1858 Ofversigt is entered as received between April and June 30, 1860.
From the above it will be seen that the dates of publication are very close, and the question of priority is one I am unable to settle at present.
Genus ORXINES Stil.
1875.
Orxines Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
43 and 87.
Included Phasma (Lopaphus) macMottii Haan, Anophelepis xiphias Westwood, and Necroscia zeuxis Westwood ; of which xiphias may be selected as the tj^pe, as Westwood has given good figures of both sexes.
Orxines xiphias (Westwood).
1859.
Anophelepis Xiphias Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 71, PI.
IV, fig.
4 (cJ*) and fig.
5 ($).
[Amboina.]
Foiu' specimens; one male, three females; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[Coll.
of Mr. Morgan Hebard and Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.]
These specimens differ slightly from Westwood's figures, the mesonotum and metanotum (without the median segment) being slightly longer, but the discrepancies are so slight it would be very difficult to satisfactorily differentiate them from the Amboina form.
Subfamily NECROSCIN^.
Genus SOSIBIA Stai.
1875.
Sosibia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
42 and 87.
Type.
— S. nigrispina Stal.
Sosibia nigrispina StM.
1875.
S[osihia\ nigrispina Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 87.
[Malacca.]
One female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U.
S, N. M.] This specimen, which otherwise agrees very well with Stal's description, has the cephalic spines with more greenish than blackish coloration.
The median tibia?
are exceptionally short, but Stal makes no mention of this rather striking condition.
Genus CALVISIA StM.
1875.
Calvisia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
42 and 87.
Included Necroscia sangariiis, medora, virhius and hcmus Westwood, of wliich the first can be selected as the type.
Calvisia viridilineata (Bates).
1866.
Necroscia viridilineata Bates, Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, XXV, p. 352.
[Ceram.]
One female; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[Coll.
of ^Morgan Hebard.]
This agrees perfectly with Bates' description, except that the general tint of the limbs is more brownish than greenish, but this of course may be due to drying.
SthVs 'maculiceps and thishe from the PhilipiDines^* appear to be closely related to this species.
2* dfversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad.
Forhandlingar, 1877, No.
10, p. 42.
Calvisia graminea (Bates).
1SG6.
Necroscia graminea Bates, Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, XX\', p. 356.
fBatchian.]
($) 1866.
Necroscia smaragdula Bate.
?, Trans.
Linn.
Soe.
London, XX^', p. 357.
[Gilolo and Batchian.]
( J^) Eight specimens; four males, fomfemales; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[A. N. S. Phila.
and collection of Morgan Hebard.]
It appears to me that the above names were based on different sexes of the same species.
The specimens examined agree almost absolutely with the descriptions, and such characters as the annulation of the antennse and the structure of the pronotum and the head, as well as the extent of the rugosity of the mesonotum, are identical in the two sexes.
Bates says the tegmina of the male "are of a yellowish colour, brown towards their tips, but sometimes uniform 3'ellow."
All the four males examined have tlie coloration uniform.
The rugosity of the mesonotum of both sexes is distinctly more pronounced anteriorly, which also holds true regarding the mesosternmn.
The rangf^ of this species now covers Gilolo.
Batchian and Obi, of the MoJuccan grou]).
Calvisia maculicollis (Westwood).
1848.
Phnsma {Necroscia) macidicollis Westwood, Cabinet Orient.
Entom., PI.
XXXVIII, fig.
2.
[Assam and Sylbet.]
1893.
Cialmsict] airosignata Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Geneva, XXXIII, p. 85, tab.'
Ill, fig.
27.
[Bhamo, Burma and Meetan, Tenasserim.]
One female ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] After critically examining the figures of Westwood's maculicollis and Brunner's atrosignata, there appeals to be no doubt but that they are based on the same species.
Brunner's specimens are described as being more uniform in the coloration of the costal portion of the wings, l^ut the Trong specimen agrees exactly with Westwood's figure.
This species has been recorded from Java by Westwood and Sumatra by Brunner, as well as from the localities mentioned above.
Calvisia nigrofasciata (Haan).
1842.
P[hasma] (Necroscia) nigrofasciatuni Haan, Verliandel.
Xatuurlijke Geschied.
Nederl.
overzees.
Bezitt., Orth., p. 122.
[Batang Singalang.]
One male ; Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra.
October-November, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Ililler.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen agrees very well with Haan's very brief description.
A pecuhar coloration not noticed in the original diagnosis is the longitudinal black and greenish-white lined limits and antenna.
Genus MARMESSOIDEA Brunner.
1893.
Mannessoidea Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, XXXIII, pp.
84 and 85.
Included marmessus Westwood and ruhescens Saussure, of which the former was considered the type by Brunner {vide supra, p. 86).
Marmessoidea marmessus (Westwood).
1859.
Necroscia Marmessus Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 149, PI.
XIX, figs.
1 and 7, PL XXIX, fig.
4.
[Malacca; Sarawak, Borneo; Sumatra.]
Four specimens; two males, two females; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] Goenong Soegi, Ijampong, Sumatra.
October-November, 1901.
(A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M.
Hiller.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
The male from Sumatra has the maculations of the tegmina circular, as in the form provisionally named euryhates by Westwood.
The two Trong specimens are both typical individuals.
Marmessoidea cercyon (Westwood).
1859.
Necroscia cercyon Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 146, PI.
XXXIV, fig.
1.
[Pulo Penang, Malacca.]
One female; Khow Sai Dow, Trong, Lower Siam (1,000 feet).
January-February, 1899.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] As the female of this species has never been described, a few notes on the abdominal appendages and the measurements may be of interestNinth dorsal segment strongly tectate, the median ridge very prominent, apex bluntly angulate.
Cerci subequal, apically blunt, very slightly exceeding the apex of the subgenital opercule.
Subgenital opercule cymbiform, acmninate ; apex very deeply and narrowly emarginate.
jMeasurements.
Total length, 76.3 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " Length of mesonotum, 13.5 " Length of abdomen, 41 " Length of tegmina, 7.2 " Length of wings, 44 " Length of anterior femora, 21 " Length of anterior tibiae, 22 " Length of median femora, 13.5" I^ength of posterior femora, 19.5 " Marmessoidea pMuctainoides-^ n. sp.
Types.
— (J and $ ; Yokohama, Japan.
(Rev, H, Loomis.)
[Coll.
A, N. S. Phila.
(types) and A. N.
Caudell.]
^» c>?^vKTaivoEL6?/(^ i.e.. pimpU^.
Allied to M. sumatrensis Brancsik^^ from Sumatra, but differing in the shorter mesonotum, the compressed ninth abdominal segment, the non-annulate antennae and the different color pattern of the tegminaBrancsik's Necroscia papuana from Xew Guinea and Westwood's ismene from Borneo are apparently related to phluctainoidcs , but very distinct species.
d*.
— Size rather small; form slender; surface of head subgiabrous, of thoracic segments granulose.
Head rather large, moderately depressed, somewhat inflated, the posterior portion subequal in width, occiput with a faint median sulcus; eyes ovate, prominent; basal joint of the antennae slightly depressed, longer than broad, second joint longer than broad and not equal to the basal joint in size, total length of the antennae about equal to that of the abdomen.
Pronotum quadrate, with a fine median longitudinal sulcus and a well-marked transverse sulcus which is placed before the middle.
Mesonotum somewhat over three times the length of the pronotum, subequal anteriorly, slightly expanded posteriorly, very distinct median and lateral carinae present, all becoming rather evanescent posteriorly, surface rugosotuberculate.
Tegmina short, subtruncate apically, raised portion of moderate elevation, rounded.
Wings large, damaged in the type, but apparently reaching the apex of the abdomen in the perfect specimen.
Abdomen slender, the six basal segments longitudinal and slightly decreasing in length apically; eighth segment slightly longer than the seventh, both carinate, the seventh slightly expanded apically, the eighth slightly compressed; ninth segment about equal to the seventh in length, compressed, subtectate, apex truncate when viewed from the dorsum; cerci about reaching to the apex of the ninth segment, subequal, slightly incurved; supra-anal plate absent; subgenital opercule reaching to the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, rotundatotruncate.
Anterior femora somewhat exceeding the pronotum and mesonotum in length, considerably curved basally; tibiae slightlj'shorter than the femora; metatarsi very slender, equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median and posterior limbs absent.
General color purplish-brown, rather pale on the proximal portion of the anterior femora.
Tegmina with the elevation black, bordered laterally by a longitudinal bar of pinkish-white, which extends to the apex of the tegmina.
Wings pinkish-purple.
?
.
— Size medium ; form rather robust ; surface of mesonotum and tegmina rugose.
Head inflated, slightly elongate; eyes ovate, mod2® Jahresheft des Naturvnssenschafilichen Vereines des Trencsener Comitates, XIV-XV, p. 201, tab.
xi, fig.
11 (J').
eratety prominent; antennte slightly exceeding half the length of the body, basal joint longitudinal and considerably depressed, second joint cylindrical, considerably smaller than the basal joint.
Pronotiim quadrate, very slightly constricted posteriorly, anterior margin with a shallow emargination, median sulcus not marked posteriorly, the transverse ante-median sulcus very distinct.
]\Iesonotum ec|ual in length to the posterior tibiae, rather broad, gradually expanding posteriorly; median and lateral carinse very distinct; surface rugoso-tuberculate.
Tegmina short, subquadrate; apex subtruncate; elevated point slight, low and rounded.
Wings short, reaching to the apex of the third abdominal segment, width about three-fourths of the length; costal area coarsely reticulate ; radial vein furcate.
Abdomen somewhat inflated, the six basal segments all transverse and subequal in length, the second and third of the greatest and the sixth of the least width ; seventh and eighth segments tectate, subequal in length ; ninth segment slightly , longer than the eighth, the apex somewhat produced, truncate and with a slight triangular median emargination; supra-anal plate with the apex alone visible; cerci straight, reaching to the apex of the ninth segment; subgenital opercule tectate, acuminate, the tip acute and reacliing to the apex of the eighth segment.
Egg almost ready to deposit in position in oviduct, general shape apparently oval, surface rugose.
Limbs short, terminal tarsal joint of each foot provided with a large arolium.
Anterior femora slightly exceeding the mesonotum in length, basal section strongly bowed ; tibiae sHghtly shorter than the femora; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora and tibiae short, the former slightly longer than the latter, neither exceeding the length of the two basal segments of the abdomen; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remaining joints of the tarsi.
Posterior femora but slightly shorter than the pronotmn and mesonotum together; tibiae shghtly shorter than the femora; metatarsi much shorter than the remaining tarsal joints, the second joint alone being half the length of the metatarsus.
General color grass-green, most intense on the mesonotum, tegmina and costal region of the wdngs.
Antennae dull purplish, pale basally; eyes wood-brown, with a narrow longitudinal bar of darker brown; postocular region with a faint line of yellowish.
Mesonotum with the lateral carinae chrome-yellow.
Tegmina with the chrome-yellow line of the mesonotum continued to the apical margin, flanked internally by a line of blackish.
Wings with the posterior portion roseatepink.
Measurements.
Total length, 40 mm.
50 mm.
Length of pronotiim, 1.7 " 2.5 " Length of mesonotmii, 7 " 10 " Length of tegmma, 2.5 " 3 " Length of wmgs, 19+ " 16.5 " Length of abdomen, 22.5 " 26.5 " Length of anterior femora.
11 " 11.5 '' Length of anterior tibise, 9.5 '' 9.5 " Length of median femora, 7.5 " Length of posterior femora, 11.7 " This species is based on a series of sixteen individuals, fifteen of which are females.
No appreciable difference exists in all the series, except in the intensity of the green coloration of the body, which is clearly due ^ to the fading of the natural tint.
Genus SIPYLOIDEA Brunner.
1893.
Sipyloidea Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Xat.
Geneva, XXXIII, pp.
84 and 86.
Included Necroscia chlorotica Serville, TV.
sipyhis, samsoo, sarpedori and pancetius Westwood, of which Brunner selected sipylus as the type.
Sipyloidea sipylus (Westwood).
1859.
Necroscia Sipylus Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 138, PI.
XVIII, fig.
4. tAssam; Java.]
Three specimens; one male, two females; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] This species has been recorded from Bhamo and Carin Cheba, Burma, Assam, Malacca, Sumatra, Java and Borneo.
The form from the latter island was provisionally separated by Westwood as ivarasaca.
Sipyloidea scabra (StS.])?
1877.
N[ecroscin] scabra Stal, Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad.
Forhandlingar, 1877, No.
10, p. 43.
[Philippines.]
Two males; Island of Obi, ^^loluccas.
[Coll.
of Morgan Hebard and A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr.
Hebard.]
These specimens agree fairly Avell with Stal's very brief description, but that individuals from the two localities are identical is, to say the least, doubtful.
A very peculiar feature of these individuals is the continuous ventral line extending from the prosternum to the apical portion of the abdomen.
Several other species related to tliis form are sarpedon and samsoo Westwood, and possibh' jamis Bates and ceramia Westwood.
Sipyloidea poeciloptera-' n. sp.
Types.— d^ and 9 ; Island of Obi, Molucca^.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
As this species does not appear to be closely related to any of the previously known species, I have compared it with the type of the genus.
The new form differs from S. sipylits in the smaller size, the very weak character of the granulations on the mesonotum, the somewhat slenderer and less coriaceous tegmina, the blunter character of the apex of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment and the more acuminate apical portion of the subgenital opercule.
cJ*.
— Size mediiun; form elongate; surface smooth.
Head slightly oblong, dorsal surface flat, the occiput wdth a slight median longitudinal sulcus; eyes ovate, prominent; antennae slightly exceeding the body in length.
Pronotum longitudinal, about twice as long as broad, subequal in width, transverse sulcus in advance of the middle.
Mesonotum about three and a half times the length of the pronotum, very slender, very slightly constricted centrally ; surface with a few obsolete granulations and a weak longitudinal median carina.
Tegmina ovate, the apex sub-truncate, median protuberance of medium height and rather blunt.
Wings equal to the mesonotum and about two-thirds the abdomen in length.
Abdomen with the seventh and eighth segments subequal in length, and exceeding the ninth, which is somewhat tectate and apically subtruncate with a very shallow median emargination ; cerci short, stout, subequal, extending but slightly beyond the ninth dorsal segment; subgenital opercule not quite reaching the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, moderately compressed, apex rather broadly rounded.
Limbs very slender.
Anterior femora equal to about half the length of the abdomen, basal flexm-e slight; tibiae about equal to the femora in length; metatarsi considerably exceeding the remaining joints in length.
Median femora equal to the mesonotum and tegmina in length; tibiae shghtly shorter than the femora in length; metatarsi very shghtly longer than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora about equal to the anterior femora in length; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
9 .
— Size medium.
Head suboval, not constricted posterior to the eyes; occiput with a distinct longitudinal median sulcus; eyes ovate; antennae about two-thirds the length of the body.
Pronotum as in the male, but the transverse sulcus is not so anterior in position.
Mesonotum three times the length of the pronotum, slightly expanding posteriorly, median carina very fine, subobsolete.
Tegmina ovate, ^^ TvoLKi'AoTTTepoq — variegated wings.
the apex somewhat truncate; costal region very broadly arcuate; median protuberance longitudinal, low and rounded.
Wings equal to the abdomen in length; when in repose the tips are distinctly acuminate.
Abdomen with the seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal segments subequal in length, the latter subtectate and distinctly" acuminate; subgenital opercule acuminate, reaching to the middle of the ninth dorsal segment.
Anterior femora slightly compressed, almost equal to the head, pronotiun and mesonotum in length; tibiae slightly shorter than the femora.
Median femora equal to the mesonotum and half of the pronotum in length; tibia3 about five-sixths the length of the femora; metatarsi but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora about as long as the head, pronotmii and mesonotum; tibiae equal to the femora.
General color pea-green, dark dull in the female.
Antennae greenishbrown, with the base of each joint encircled by a narrow whitish annulus, this latter character more apparent in the male than in the female.
Pronotum in the male flecked with small circular blotches of cream.
Tegmina and costal region of wings pea-green, in the female the tips of the latter touched with rosy red ; posterior field of the wdngs pale pinkish.
Apex of the abdomen and portions of the limbs in the female washed with rosy red.
Measurements.
liength of body, 57 mm.
73 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 '" 4 " Length of mesonotum.
10.5 " 12.5 '" Length of abdomen, 35 *' 44 " Length of tegmina, 3.5 " 5.5 " Length of wings, .30 '' 44.5 " Length of anterior femora 19.2 " 19 '' Length of anterior tibia?, .
18.2 " 18.5 " Length of median femora, -.13 '' 15 " Length of posterior femora, 18 '' 19.5 "' Genus ARUANOIDEA Brunner.
1893.
Arunnoidea Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Xat.
Genova, XXXIII, p. 84.
Included salmancizar, oruana and osmylus of Westwood, of which aruana may be considered the type.
Aruanoidea aruana (Westwood).| 1859.
Necroscia Aruana Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 134, PI.
XXXIX, fig.
4.
[Aru Islands.]
Fifteen specimens; eleven males, four females; Island of Obi, "Moluccas.
[Coll.
of j\Ir.
^lorgan Hebard and A. N. S.
Phila., presented ty Mr.
Hebard.]
This species has two well-marked color phases, one pea-green, the other dull wood-brown.
The males all belong to the latter phase, and have the internal edge of the tegmina and the internal edge of the basal portion of the wings with a rather broad longitudinal bar of dull 3^ellowish.
The following description is of the male, which appears never to have been recorded.
Size medium; form elongate; surface granulosc.
Head somewhat depressed, posterior portion of subequal width; occiput with a very deep longitudinal sulcus ; eyes subovate ; ocelli distinct; antennae equal to the body in length.
Pronotum distinctly longitudinal, twice as long as broad ; anterior margin broadly emarginate, posterior margin broadly arcuate, lateral margins bearing a rather acute process anteriorly; transverse sulci two in numl3er, one immediately posterior to the anterior margin, the other just anterior to the middle.
]\Iesonotum distinctly tuberculate (a condition shared by the mesoand metasternum and pleura), slender, subequal; median carina rather broad, low.
Tegmina subpyriform, apex obliquely truncate; costal field subequal in width; median protuberance very distinct.
Wings about twice the length of the head, pronotum and mesonotum together.
Abdomen with the seventh and eighth dorsal segments subequal in length, carinate, the ninth shghtly shorter than the eighth, apical emargination very deep, expanded, the lateral portions incurved and enclosing the expanded sinus; cerci subequal in width, not quite equal to the ninth segment in length; subgenital opercule reaching to the tip of the eighth dorsal segment, cymbiform, apex narrowly rounded.
Anterior femora with the basal flexure moderately distinct, equal to the head, pronotum, mesonotum and tegmina in length; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi nearly twice as long as the following tarsal joint.
Median femora equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length; tibiae somewhat shorter than the femora ; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Posterior femora and tibiae about equal to the anterior in length; metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color dull wood-brown, blotched and suffused with dull ochraceous, the limbs obscurely annulate.
Tegmina with a spot on the median protuberance and the internal border as well as the adjoining portion of the wings dull yellow; posterior field of wings vinaceous.
Antennae dull brownish-ochraceous with obsolete annuli of a dark l^rown.
Measurements.
Total length, 61 mm.
Length of pr on otum, 3.5 " Length of mesonotum, 10 " Length of abdomen, 38 " Length of tegmina, 4 " Length of wings, 34 " Length of anterior fem( )] a , 19.5 " Length of anterior tibia^ 19.5 " Length of median femoia 13.5 " Length of posterior femoia 18.5 " This locality extends the range of the species considerably to the westward.
Aruanoidea punctata (Gray).
1835.
Platycrana punctata Gray, Synopsis Phasm., p. 37.
[East Indies.]
Two males ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] These specimens are identical in the pattern and intensity of the coloration.
SubfamUy CLITUMNIN^.
Genus MACELLA Stil.
1875.
Macella Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
13, 70.
Included Bacillus souchongia Westwood and Macella deniata Stal.
of which the former may be considered the type as it is well figured.
Macella caulodes-^ n. sp.
Types.— d" and 9 ; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[Cat .
No.
7,345, U. S. N. M.] Apparently not closely allied to any of the previously known species of the genus ; the unarmed character of the eighth abdominal segment and the rather straight cerci are very distinctive.
c^.
— Size rather small; form elongate; surface subsericeous.
Head elongate, somewhat depressed, evenly constricted posteriorly; eyes subglobose, rather prominent; antenna?
with the first joint elongateovate, depressed, median longitudinal portion rounded, half the length of the linear second joint.
Pronotum longitudinal; anterior margin broadly emarginate; posterior margin truncate; lateral margins with the anterior half broadly and evenly emarginate, median longitudinal carina distinct.
jNIesonotum over five times the length of the pronotum, very slender, median carina distinct anteriorly.
JMetanotum (with median segment) about three-fourths the length of the mesonotum; median segment very short, transverse.
Abdomen with the 28 /caii/wJ/;r, i.e., resembling; a stem.
first to sixth segments distinctly longitudinal; seventh dorsal segment not more than two-thirds the length of the sixth; eighth segment tectate, shghtly shorter than the seventh, lateral portions with the posterior angles sim.ple and not developed into distinct spines; ninth segment slightly shorter than the eighth, fornicate, apically truncate and with a transverse costa, median carina narroAV and distinct; cerci about ecjual in length to the ninth dorsal segment, and inserted near the apex of the latter, slender, hardly curved ; subgenital opercule not quite reaching the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, apex broad, truncate.
Limbs very slender.
Anterior femora but slightly shorter than the mesonotum and metanotum together, basal flexure slight; tibiae slightly longer than the femora, very slender; metatarsi nearly three times the length of the remaining joints of the tarsi.
Median femora slightly exceeding the pronotum and mesonotum in length, slightly bowed, tibiae slightly longer than the femora, metatarsi about half again as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora ec{ual to the five basal abdominal segments in length, slightly bowed ; tibise exceeding the femora by about the length of the first abdominal segment; metatarsi considerably over twice as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
?
.
— Size rather small; form moderately slender; surface generally subsericeous, rather granulose on the mesonotum.
Head elongate, depressed, very slightly compressed posteriorly, posterior margin with a distinct narrow median depression ; eyes subglobose ; antenna) almost equal to the head and pronotum in length, basal joint as in the male, the second joint rather stout.
Pronotum similar to that of the male.
Mesonotum slightly more than four times the length of the pronotum, very slightly and very gradually enlarging posteriorly ; median carina anteriorly distinct, but very narrow, and becomes obsolete posteriorly.
Metanotum (with median segment) two-thirds the length of the mesonotum; median carina as in the mesonotum; median segment very short, decidedly transverse.
Abdomen ecpial to the head and thorax in length, median carina distinct and becoming quite prominent posteriorly, where the segments are decidedly tectate; first to sixth segments longitudinal, the length increasing from the base; seventh segment longitudinal, the apical portion considerably expanded; eighth segment somewhat transverse, carina not very distinct; ninth segment moderately produced, strongly carinate, apical margin with a median triangular emargination, which exposes the acuminate apex of the supraanal plate; cerci acuminate, extending beyond the ninth dorsal segment by about two-thirds the length of the latter; subgenital opercule G I'eaching to the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, apex rotimclato-truncate.
Anterior femora equal to the head, pronotum and mesonotum in length, moderately compressed, basal flexure distinct; tibiae slightly shorter than the femora ; metatarsi about three times the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora almost equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in length; metatarsi not quite twice the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora exceeding the four basal segments of the abdomen in length, somewhat bowed; tibise shghtly longer than the femora; metatarsi twice as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
General color dull ochraceous-bro"wn, deeper in the male than in the female and also exhibiting some trace of greenish.
Head with a postocular streak of blackish-brown more or less evident.
Measurements.
Total length, 51 mm.
54 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2 " 2.2 Length of mesonotum, 12 " 13 Length of metanotum (including median segment), 9.5 '' 9 Length of median segment, 1.2 " 1.5 Length of abdomen, 25.5 " 26.2 Length of anterior femora, 21.7 '' 17 Length of anterior tibige, 22.7 " 16.5 Length of median femora, 14.5 " 12.2 Length of posterior femora, 18 " 14.2 Another Trong specimen, a female, I have provisionally referred to this species.
However, it exhibits several discordant characters, as the antennse beyond the second joint are slenderer, the terminal segments of the abdomen are supplied with longitudinal rugse, and the size is greater.
Genus GRATIDIA Stll.
1875.
Grntidia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
14, 70.
Type.
— Graiidia sansibara Stal.
As the material studied in this connection was quite limited, no attempt has been made to determine the propriety of uniting Clonaria with Gratidia, as Karsch has proposed to do in his paper on this genus.^^ The relegating of Paraclonaria to the synonymy seems unwarranted, in spite of the arguments Karsch advances in defense of his action.
The structural characters of Paraclonaria are of sufficient importance 29 Entojn.
Nachrich., XXIV, pp.
370-380. to place it on an equal footing with many recognized genera of Phasmidse.
Gratidia natalis (Westwood).
1859.
Bacillus Natalis Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 6, PI.
XXIII, figs.
7 and 8.
[Port Natal.]
One female ; Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen is from alcohol, and in consequence badly shriveled and distorted.
Gratidia inclinata Karsoh.
1898.
[Gratidia] inclinata Karsch, Entom.
Nachrich., XXIV, pp.
372, 375.
[Darema, Usambara, German East Africa.]
Three males; Mombasa, British East Africa.
[Coll.
of Morgan Hebard.]
These specimens have been badly broken, but they appear to be clearly referable to this species.
Genus PARACLONARIA Sehulthess-Schindler.
1893.
Paraclonaria Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, XXXIII, p. 89.
[Name untenable, as no included species are cited.]
1898.
Paraclonaria Sehulthess-Schindler, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Genova, XXXIX, p. 182.
Included P. longelaminata, affinis and hamuligera Schulthess, the first of which was removed to Phthoa by Karsch.
Of the remaining forms hamuligera may be selected as the type.
Paraclonaria postrostrata (Karsch).
1898.
[Gratidia] postrostrata Karsch, Entom.
Nachrich., XXIV, pp.
373, 378.
[Mombasa, East Africa.]
Two males; Mombasa, British East Africa.
[Coll.
Morgan Hebard.]
These specimens agree very well with Karsch's description, except for the fact that he gives the length of the anal segment as 7.5 millimeters, while in the specimens examined the plate itself is considerably shorter than the type measurements.
Possibly personal equation or a different comprehension of the " analsegment " may be responsible for the difference, as the structure and other proportions agree perfectly.
Genus MARANSIS Karsch.
1898.
Maransis Karsch, Entom.
Nachrich., XXIV, pp.
365, 381.
Type.
— Bacillus mozamhicus Westwood.
Maransis rufolineatus Schulthess.
1899.
M[aransis] rufolineaius Schulthess, Bull.
See.
Vaudoise Sci.
Nat., Lausanne, XXXV, p. 200, PL VII, fig.
4.
[Delagoa.]
Five specimens; two males, three females (two immature); Zulu Mission, South Africa.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Genus PARAPACHYMORPHA Brunner.
1S93.
Parajpachymorjpha Brunner, Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Stor.
Nat.
Geneva, XXXIII, p. 95.
Included P. nigra and spinosa Brunner.
NEOHIRASEA »> n. subgen.
Allied to Parapachymorpha s.s., but differing in the greater size of the second antennal joint, the unarmed limbs, the transverse first abdominal segment, the emarginate ninth dorsal segment, as well as the accentuated character of the major body spines and the comparative suppression of the minor ones.
Type.
— Phasma (Acanthoderus) japonicum Haan.
Parapachymorpha (Neohirasea) japonica (Haan).
1842.
Phasma {Acanthoderus) japonicum Haan, Verhandel.
Natuurlijke Geschied., Orth., p. 135, tab.
12, fig.
4.
[Japan.]
Three females; Kyoto, Japan.
(Y. Hirase, No.
48.)
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Nikko, Japan.
[U. S. N. M.] The Nikko specimen, while badly broken, represents an individual considerably bulkier than either of the Kyoto specimens.
Subfamily ACROPHYLLIN.^.^i Genus DIMORPHODES Westwood.
1859.
Dimorphodes Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. SO, Type.
— D. prostasis Westwood.
Dimorphodes mancus Bates.
1856.
Diryiorphodes mancus Bates, Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, XXV, p. 345, PI.
XLIV, figs.
3 and 8.
[Batchian and Ternate.]
Thirteen specimens; eight males, five females; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[Coll.
of Morgan Hebard.]
In this fine series of specimens two individuals, one a male and the other a female, are decidedly more spinosc than the remainder of the series.
This is almost wholly due to the development of the low tuberculous excrescences of the other specimens into distinct spines, and may be considered a purely individual feature.
Considerable discrepancy exists in the length of the anterior limbs, two undoubtedly ^° Dedicated to Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan, who has devoted a great amount of time and labor to collecting representatives of the Mollusca and Orthoptera of his native land.
^' As Kirby has already noticed (Proc.
Royal Dublin Soc, n. s., VI, p. 573\ Acrophylla and Diura are directly synonymous.
The former name was proposed to replace the latter, which is preoccupied.
Accordingly the use of the names as distinct genera is a gross error.
adult individuals showing the range of variation in the length of the femora to be 4.5 millimeters.
Genus GEAEFFEA Stil.
1875.
Graejfea Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
40, 85.
Type.
— Lopaphus coccophagus Westwood ( = Alopus cocophages Newport).
GraefFea cocophages (Newport).
1841.
Alopus cocophages Newport, Philosoph.
Trans.
Royal See.
London, 1844, Pt.
I, p. 288, PI.
XIV, fig.
4.
[Navigator's Island.]
Three specimens; one male, two females; Savaii, Samoan Islands.
(Sir Charles Ehot.)
[U. S. N. M.] This species has also been recorded from the Tonga group, the Feejees, and Rotuma near the latter group.
The Loyally Islands possess another species of the genus, lifuensis Sharp, and possibly fulvescens Saussure, from the Marquesas, may be distinct, as the cerci of the female are subspatulate instead of acuminate or terete, as in the other two forms of the genus.
Genus ARRHID.a:US Stil.
1875.
Arrhidceus Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad.
Handl., Bd.
2, No.
17, p. 15.
Type.
— Necroscia styxius Westwood.
This genus contains a number of Oriental and Papuan species, a list of which may prove of service: Arrhidceus styxius (Westwood).
Philippines.
Arrhidceus palinurus (Westwood).
Philippines.
Arrhidceus nigricornis Stal.
Philippines.
Arrhidceus stali Kirby.
Albay, N. E. Luzon, Philippines.
Arrhidceus capita (Westwood).
Sarawak, Borneo.
Arrhidceus longiceps (Bates).
Kaioa Island, near Batchian.
Arrhidceus apalamnus n, sp.
Obi.
Arrhidceus roseus (Stoll).
Amboina and Ceram.
Arrhidceus cephalotes (Bates).
New Guinea.
?
Arrhidceus vittatus (Serville).
Java.
Arrhidaeus apalamnus '■'n. sp.
Types.— c?
and ?
; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
Near longiceps Bates,^^ but differing in the longer pronotum, shorter tegmina and wings, distribution of the femoral spines and coloration 32 airakafivogj i.e., helpless.
33 Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, XXV, p. 350, PI.
XLV, fig.
6.
Stoll's description of rosea,^^ from Amboina is so brief that even with the aid of his figure Httle can be made out of it.
It is very apparent, however, that it has much longer wings than apalamnus, which latter has very short wings in both sexes.
(^.
— Size rather small; form moderately elongate; surface glabrous.
Head very large, almost twice the width of the pronotum, oblong, slightly and evenly constricted in the posterior portion; occiput with a broad shallow longitudinally disposed sulcus, another of similar character extending posteriorly from the eye and another on the side of the head; oceUi obsolete; eyes hemispherical; antennae slender, filiform, about equal to the anterior femora in length.
Pronotum oblong, about twice as long as broad, very sUghtly broader anteriorly than posteriorly, transverse sulcus centrally placed, lateral portions with a broad shallow longitudinal depression extending almost the entire length.
Mesonotum slender, slightly expanding anteriorly and posteriorly, over tliree times the length of the pronotum, surface obsoletely tuberculate; median carina replaced by a very weak sulcus.
Tegmina ovate; apex rounded; median protuberance extremely low; venation very irregular and somewhat reticulate in character.
Wings short, not reacliing to the middle of the third abdominal segment; costal and mediastinal regions with the transverse nervures distinct and parallel.
Abdomen bacilliform; eighth dorsal abdominal segment shghtly longer than the seventh, both of which are somewhat tectate; ninth segment compressed, carinate, apical incision deep and circular, the inferior lateral lobes strongly dentate; cerci about equal to the ninth segment in length, fihf orm, apex acuminate ; subgenital opercule reaching to the tip of the eighth dorsal segment, cymbiform, the apex moderately acuminate.
Limbs rather slender.
Anterior femora equal in length to the head, pronotum, mesonotum and tegmina, basal flexiu-e slight, apical portion of the inferior surface with four spines; tibiae shghtly longer than the femora; metatarsi half again as long as the remaining tarsal joint.
Median femora equal to the mesonotum and haK of the pronotum in length, apical spines four in number, three placed anteriorly, one posteriorly; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi shghtly longer than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora slightly shorter than the four basal abdominal segments, the apical spines six or seven in number, one at the extreme apex placed posteriorly; tibiae shghtly longer than the femora; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
^* NcUuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Beschrijvingen, Spooken, pp.
13 and 76, PI.
V, fig.
17.
General color sea-green, prothoracic and mesothoracic pie lira and lines on the anterior and median coxae, as well as the posterior part of the prosterniim black.
Eyes wood-brown with a longitudinal bar of blackish which is continued to the posterior margin of the head.
Tegmina with the median protuberance pale ochraceous.
Wings with the venation of the costal and mediastinal regions of the general tint on a smoky ground; posterior field vermillion.
9 .
— Size medium.
Head much as in the male, but the sulci less distinct; antennae very slender, not more than two-thirds the length of the anterior femora.
Pronotum half again as long as broad, subequal in width; three moderately distinct transverse sulci in the anterior half.
Mesonotum four times the length of the pronotum; median carina replaced by a very fine longitudinal sulcus.
Tegmina subovate, apex roimdcd; median protuberance not perceptible.
Wings extremely short, not quite reaching the apex of the first abdominal segment; costal and mediastinal regions with the apex subacuminate.
Abdomen with the eighth dorsal segment considerably longer than the seventh; ninth segment shorter than the seventh, apex broadly acuminate; cerci not equalling the ninth segment in length, depressed, acuminate; subgenital opercule compressed, scoop-like, extending to the middle of the ninth dorsal segment, apex narrowly emarginate^ surface subcoriaceous.
Limbs with the femoral spines much as in the male, but much weaker.
Anterior femora equal to the mesonotum and wings in length, basal flexure slight ; tibiae about equal to the femora in length; metatarsi half again as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
j\Iedian femora and tibiae subequal and each somewhat shorter than the mesonotum.
Posterior femora slightly longer than the four basal joints of the abdomen; tibiae exceeding the femora by half the length of the four abdominal segments; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color pale yellowish-green, becoming ochraceous on the abdomen.
Head glaucous-green, with two longitudinal stripes of chrome-yellow which extend from the basal antennal joints back along the lateral margins of the pronotum and mesonotum; a postocular streak of darker green is faintly indicated.
Mesonotum and pronotum scrumbled with wood-I^rown, the mesothoracic pleura longitudinally lined with chrome-yellow.
Tegmina viridian-green, the mediastinal region chrome-yellow.
Wings with the apex of the costal and discoidal region smoky-brown, with the venation rich verdigris-green; posterior field vermillion.
Limbs dull yellowish lined with blackish, which also suffuses the coxae.
o 74.2] tim 4.1 16.5 4.7 10 39.5 28.5 11 • 29 15 19.5 MeasuremenU.
Total length, 5.3.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 Length of mesonotnm, 10.5 Length of tegmina, 4 Length of wings 14.
9 Length of abdomen 30.5 Length of anterior femora, 21.5 Length of anterior til)ia3, 22.1 Length of median femora, 12 Length of posterior femora, 16 Genus ANCHIALE Stal.
1S75.
Anchiale Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
36 and S4.
Type.
— Anchiale maculata (Olivier) {=Phasnia 7iecydaloides Stoll [not of Linn.]
and Phasma nccvimn Lichtenstein).
Anchiale nsevia (Lichtenstein).
1787.
[Phasma] necydaloidcs Stoll, Xatuurli.ike Afbeeldingen en Beschryvingen, Spooken, pp.
8, 10 and 76, PI.
Ill, fig.
8, PI.
IV, fig.
11.
[Amboina.]
(Not Gryllus (Mantis) necydaloidcs Linnceus.)
1792.
Mantis maculata Olivier, Encvcl.
l\Iethod., Ins., VII, p. 636.
[Amboina.
]-^^ (Not of Thunberg and Lundahl, 1784.)
1802.
[Phasma] noevium Lichten.stein, Trans.
linn.
Soc.
London, \l, p. 13.
[Amboina.p^ Two rather immature females: Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[Coll.
of Morgan Hebard.]
One of these specimens has the right anterior liml) regenerated, the whole leg not equalling the normal left femur in length.
The sjmonymy of this species is very much involved, but after considerable study 7icevia seems to be the correct name.
Sharp^'^ has given some space to a discussion of the names of the species of the genus, but as he did not have the Moluccan form, the question as to a name for it was left unsettled.
The nominal species known to date are as follows : Anchiale nccvia (Lichtenstein).
Aml^oina and Obi.
Anchiale stolli Sharp.
New Britain.
Anchiale confusa Sharp.
New Britain (Westwood credits this form, which he calls maculata, to the Sandwich Islands).
The insect figured and described by Blanchard^' from "Warou, on the coast of Ceram, may represent a distinct form.
•'^ Based on Stoll's figures.
^« Willev, Zoological Results, I, p. 90.
2' Voi/a'ge aii Pole Hud., ZooL, IV, p. 358, Orth., PL I, fig.
8.
Subfamily HETEROPTERYGIN.E {Cladomorphime Brunner).
Genus HETEROPTERYX Gray.
1835.
Heteropterijx Gray, Synopsis Spec.
Ins.
Phasm., pp.
13 and 32.
Type.
— Phasma dilatatum Parkinson.
Heteropteryx dilatata (Parkinson).
1798.
Phasma dilatatum Parkinson, Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, IV, p. 190, tab.
IS.
[Asia.]
Two specimens, male and female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] The male of this species has never been described, and appears to be remarkable for the great length of the tegmina and wings.
It resembles the male of mulleri Haan closer than any other species the male of which is known.
From mulleri it can readily be distinguished by the shorter mesonotum, the longer tegmina (55 mm.)
and wings (70 mm.
), and the more ample lateral flaps of the seventh and eighth abdominal segments.
The range of the genus Heteropteryx covers Malacca and Trong (dilatata, castelnaudii, rollandi), Sumatra (mulleri), Java (rosenbergi) , Borneo (grayii, dehaanii and dilatata), Celebes (westwoodii) and Australia (austrcdis).
Genus DATAMES StM.
1875.
Datames Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
51 and 93.
Type.
— Acanthoderus oileus West wood.
Datames sequalis ^ n. sp.
Type.
— ?
; Island of Obi, Moluccas.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
Closely allied to D. mouhotii Bates^^ from Cambodia, but differing in the peculiar form of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, and the almost entire absence of oblique ridges on the abdominal segments.
The Javan and Malaccan oileus West wood, rather curiously, is not at all closely allied.
Size small; form elongate, tectatc, sul^equal; surface obscurely tuberculate.
Head subequal in width, slightly longitudinal; occiput elevated and bearing two converging cristate crenulate ridges, which, when united posteriorly, form a jagged projecting lobe; interocular region with a structure somewhat similar to that found on the occiput, but on a smaller scale, the ridges not meeting posteriorly and being trituberculate, the anterior tubercle developed into a distinct curved ^* In allusion to the uniform breadth of the thoracic and abdominal segments.
^^ Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, XXV, p. 342. claw-likc spine; lateral aspect of the head with a distinct longitudinal rounded ridge passing through the eye; eyes globose, rather small; antennae equal to the mesonotum and metanotum in length, basal joint triquetrous, sul^concave, rectangular, the external margin with a distinct submedian and apical spine, second joint longitudinal, depressed.
Pronotum slightly transverse, anterior margin concave, posterior margin truncate ; median portion with a pair of longitudinal tuberculous ridges; lateral portions with a broad distinct continuous ridge.
Mesonotum two and one-half times the length of the pronotum ; median carina sprinkled with tubercles, the anterior and posterior portions each bearing a distinct symmetrically disposed pair; lateral ridge distinct, gently curved upward in the supra-coxal region.
Metanotum (including the median segment) two-thirds the length of the mesonotum and similar in structure, except that the anterior portion of the median carina is without tubercles; median segment slightly more than one-fourth of the whole metanotal length.
Abdomen almost equal to the head and thorax in length, subequal in width, all segments transverse, the oblique lateral lines present in the other species of the genus subobsolete; median carina very distinct on the fourth and eighth segments, bifurcate on the former, cristate on the latter; ninth dorsal abdominal segment basally rectangular, the posterior median portion produced into a subtriangular process, the apex of which is truncato-emarginate; subgenital opcrcule reaching to the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, carinate, produced, the apex rounded.
Limbs short and stout.
Anterior femora about three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, basal flexure slight, but occupying half the entire length, dorsal carina high; tibiae slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi not exceeding the succeeding joint in length.
Median femora slightl}^ shorter than the metanotum in length, superior margin obscurely trilobate; tibise slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi not different in character from the succeeding joint and but very slightly longer.
Posterior femora equal to the median segment and first and second abdominal segments in length, suiDerior margin trilobate, the third low and subobsolete in character; tibiee slightly shorter than the femora in length; metatarsi as in the median limbs.
General color ochraceous and wood-brown, the two tints irregularly intermingled, and distinctly contrasted in but few places.
Measurements.
Total length, 44 mm.
Length of pronotum 3 " Length of mesonotum 9.1 '' Measurements.
Length of metanotum (including median segment), ... 6 mm.
Length of abdomen, 21.5 " Length of anterior femora, 7 Length of anterior tibia?, 5.8 " Length of median femora, 6 '' Length of posterior femora, 7 " Subfamily ANISOMORPHIN.E.
Genus DECIDIA StM.
— 1875.
Decidia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.57 and 96.
Type.
— Phasma soranus Westwood.
Decidia soranus (Westwood)?
1859.
Phasma Soranus Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 127, PI.
XVII, fig.
3.
["In Colombia regione frigida Quindensi."]
One immature female; La Paz, Bolivia.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
This specimen shows rudiments of the tegmina and wings, and while resembling Westwood's figure of soranus very closely in general appearance, it is much smaller {circa 45 mm.)
than even the immature condition of the specimen would seem to warrant.
The metatarsi are much shorter than in the figure of soranus, and the probabilities are that mature Bolivian specimens will show the existence of a form distinct from the type species.
Subfamily PSEUDOPHASMIN.E.
*« Genus STRATOCLES Stai.
1875.
Stratocles Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
57 and 96.
Type.
— Stratocles cinctipes Stal.
Stratocles multilineatus n. sp.
Type.
— d^ ; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
7,347, U. S. N. M.] Near S. forcipatus Bolivar," with which it agrees fairly well in general measurements, but is separated by a number of other characters.
Some slight resemblance appears to exist to the insufficiently described Phasma hennettii Gray.
Size small; form moderately elongate.
Head slightly depressed, subequal in width; ocelli large; eyes ovate, prominent; antennae somewhat exceeding the body in length, basal joint subquadrate, second joint cylindrical, equal to the basal joint in length.
Pronotum ^ I have followed Kirby (Trans.
Linn,.
Soc.
London, n.
ser., VI, pp.
473-474) in using this name for the Phasmidce of Brunner. "
Adas Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., XXV, p. 11 .
equal to the head in length, longitudinal, sul:)equal except for a slight anterior constriction; anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; cruciform longitudinal and transverse sulci finely marked, but distinctly visible; anterior angles rotundato-emarginate; posterior half with four more or less distinct raised longitudinal ridges.
JMcsonotum slightly longer than the pronotum, longitudinal, subequal in width, posterior portion considerably but gradually inflated, surface with four longitudinal rows of small tubercles, which posteriorly fuse into rough ridges; mesopleura smooth, with a longitudinal low ridge; mesosternum smooth, rounded.
JMetanotum twice as long as the mesonotum; metasternum plane.
Tegmina ovoid, not half the length of the metathorax, discoidal protuberance rather sharp, longitudinal; apex rather narrowly rounded.
Wings large, reaching to the apex of the seventh abdominal segment, slightly over twice as long as wide.
Abdomen about half again as long as the head and thorax; the six basal segments longitudinal, gradually decreasing in length toward the apex; seventh dorsal segment transverse, not quite half the length of the sixth; eighth segment about twice the length of the seventh, very much inflated apically; ninth dorsal segment bullate, bearing a shallow median depressed area which gives the plate a bimammillate appearance, apical margin subtruncate ; cerci not quite equal to the ninth dorsal seg.
ment in length, subequal and slightly depressed l^asally, acuminate apically; subgenital opercule but slightly shorter than the eighth dorsal segment, and exceeding the apical margin of the same, apical margin evenly rounded with a very slight shallow median emargination.
Limbs very slender, the anterior and posterior femora subequal to their respective femora in length.
Anterior femora slightly exceeding the entire thorax in length, basal flexure hardty visible; metatarsi very slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora equal to the mesonotum and metathorax in length ; tibise somewhat shorter than the femora; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining joints of the tarsi.
Posterior femora reaching slightly beyond the apex of the fourth abdominal segment; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
General color of the upper surface slate-black lined and spotted with emerald-green; head with seven distinct longitudinal lines; pronotum with two large irregular blotches on the anterior half, four longitudinal lines on the posterior part, and the entire margins of the same green tint ; mesonotum with the lateral ridges and the four distinct rows of tubercles of the overlying tint; tegmina with the basic color sohd except in the discoidal and basal regions which are ochraceous-rufous, A-eins of the costal and posterior fields emerald-green ; wings with the costal and discoidal of the same color scheme as the tegmina, posterior field smok}'hyaline, the veins distinctly blackish, the basal portion whitish; abdomen with the upper surface blackish, touched with ochraceous toward the apex.
Under surface pale ochraceous, touched ■v\dth reddish anteriorly and posteriorly.
Antennae blackish with very minute whitish annuli at the apex of each segment, the terminal joint ochraceousrufous; eyes mottled wood-brown.
Limbs with the femora blackish, lined along the carinse with emerald-green, the proximal portion with the latter color predominating; tibia?
dull blackish-ochraceous: tarsi ochraceous.
Measurements.
Total length, 46 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3 " Length of mesonotum, 3.7 " Length of metathorax, 7.8 " Length of tegmina, 4.5 " Length of wings, 29.5 " Length of abdomen, 29 " Length of anterior femora 15 " Length of anterior tibise, 14.5 " Length of median femora, 12.5 " Length of posterior femora, 15.5 " Stratocles costaricensis n. sp.
Type.— 9 ; Costa Rica.
(Schild and Biu-gdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
7,346, U. S. N. M.] Apparently related to Phasma perspicillare Stoll,^ from which it differs in the longer limbs and rather different color pattern, which, however, resembles perspicillaris closer than any other species.
Size medium; form elongate subfusiform; surface generally velutinous and evenly pilose on the pronotum, mesonotum, limbs and ventral surface.
Head suborbicular when viewed from the dorsum, considerably broader than the pronotum; occiput rounded; ocelh of mediiun size; eyes ovate, moderately prominent; antennae exceeding the body by over half the length of the latter.
Pronotum longitudinal, about twice as long as wide, subequal; anterior and posterior margins subtnmcate ; cruciform depression very slight.
Mesonotum shorter than the pronotimi, posterior half sharply yet evenly elevated, width subequal and shghtly narrower than the pronotum.
]\letathorax considerably longer than the prothorax and mesothorax; metasternum plane.
Tegmina rather short, irregularly elongate-ovate ; costal area large and « NatuvrJ.
Afbeeld.
Bparh., Spooken, pp.
67 and 77, PI.
XXIIT, fig.
86. distinctly emarginate apically ; discoidal area \Yith the tubercles compressed, longitudinal, triangular in outline.
Wings ample, reaching to the apex of the abdomen in repose, almost twice as long as broad; apex rather narrowly rounded.
Abdomen with the six basal segments longitudinal, decreasing in size toward the apex; seventh and eighth dorsal segments each about three-fourths the length of the sixth segment, tectate; ninth segment tectate, slightly shorter than the preceding segment, apex obtuse wdth a slight median emargination exposing the triangular apex of the supra-anal plate ; cerci slender, simple, extending but a slight distance beyond the tip of the ninth segment; subgenital opercule large, cymbiform, extending to the apex of the ninth dorsal segment, apex produced, rectangulate.
Limbs moderately slender.
Anterior femora injured; tibiae somewhat shorter than the thorax; metatarsi shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora equal to the mesothorax and metathorax in length; tibiae distinctly shorter than the femora ; metatarsi about two-thirds the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora equal to the four basal segments of the abdomen; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color dull black, becoming brownish-black on the abdomen and limbs; mesonotum, mesopleura, mesosternum, metapleura and metasternum with several obscure lines of dull ochraceous.
Femora each with several very obscure annuli of dull ochraceous.
Tegmina ochre-yellow, suffused on the apical portion of the discoidal and posterior fields with pale glaucous-green; longitudinal veins of the discoidal and posterior fields apically, and the posterior margin entirely lined with black.
Wings with the costal and discoidal regions pale ochre-yellow, fading into pale glaucous-green apically ; anterior margin, a spot before the base and the veins of the discoidal area blackish; posterior field with the disk very pale clay color, the periphery and apex dark smoky-hj-aline.
Measurements.
Total length, 52.2 mm.
Length of pronotum, 3.7 Length of mesonotum, 3 Length of metathorax, 9 Length of tegmina, 6.7 Length of wings, 39 Length of abdomen, 31 Length of anterior tibiae, 16.5 Length of median femora, 13.1 Length of posterior femora 18 Genus PSEUDOPHASMA Kirby { P hasm a Auct.).
« 1S96.
Pseudophasma Kirby, Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
London, 2cl ser., VI, p. 473.
Type.
— Gryllus necydaloides Linnaeus (=phthisicus Linnseus).
After examining the literature on the subject, I fully agree with Kirby as to the necessity of a new name for the Phasma of most authors.
Pseudophasma phaeton n. sp.
T}T)e. — S ; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
7,348, U. S.N.
M.] Closely related to P. urazi Bolivar^* from the Rio Atalapo, but differing in the hyaline posterior field of the wings, the longer mesonotum, and the different proportions of the limbs.
Bolivar's P. perezi*^ from Coca, Ecuador, also appears to be an allied species.
Size rather large; form very slender and elongate.
Head consideral^ly longer than the pronotum, very slightly constricted posteriorly; eyes ovate; antenna3 with each joint somewhat thickened apically, basal joint oblong, slightly depressed.
Pronotum not quite half the length of the mesonotum, almost twice as long as broad, subequal, anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; anterior angles with a slight emargination caused by a distinct spiraculous aperture; cruciform depression slightly marked.
Mesonotum rather elongate, subequal in width ; lateral margins each with a distinct longitudinal carina ; median portion with a constant slight longitudinal sulcus ; surface of the anterior three-fifths sprinkled with rounded tubercles, surface of the ])osterior two-fifths smooth; mesosternum obscurely tuberculate with a distinct, though irregular, longitudinal carina.
Metathorax equal to the mesothorax in length; metasternum strongly longitudinal, and l)caring a distinct, but very narrow, median sulcus.
Tegmina slightly over three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, subrectangular, the apical margin obliquely truncate; costal margin arcuate; anal margin ^" The name Pseudophasma was proposed almost simultaneously by both Kirby and Bolivar, the former to replace Phasma of authors, the latter to designate a new genus near to the one Kirby renamed.
Considerable trouble was experienced in ascertaining the exact dates of the respective papers.
Kirby's article (supra, pp.
447-475) was read December 5, 1895, and in the contents of the volume the date July, 1896, is given.
Bolivar's paper (Adas Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., XXV, pp.
11-18) was presented January 8, 1896, and the date of publication of the part is given on the cover sheet as September 30, 1896.
From the Zoologischer Anzeiger (Bibliographia Zoologica, I, pp.
552 and 650) we learn that Kirby's paper was received first, and this no doubt has priority of a month at least.
Accordingly Bolivar's Pseudophasma requires another name, and I propose Ignacia, as a "slight tribute to the worth of a master mind. "
Actas Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., XXV, p. 13.
^^ An.
Soc.
Espan.
Hist.
Nat., X, p. 479. strai^o-ht; median tubercle elongate and relatively low; venation, except for the principal longitudinal veins, irregularly reticulate.
Wings reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment, slightly less than twice as long as broad ; marginal costal field with the transverse veins irregularly disposed, all other cross veins (except those of the posterior field) regularly disposed.
Abdomen with the six basal segments distinctly longitudinal, the sixth about two-thirds the length of the fifth; seventh segment about two-thirds the length of the sixth, and with the eighth and ninth strongly compressed and distinctly tectate; eighth and ninth segments subequal in length, the latter with the apical margin trimcate ; cerci equal to the ninth dorsal segment in length, elongate fusiform; subgenital opercule slender, reaching to the middle of the ninth dorsal segment, apex very strongly acuminate.
Limbs slender, and relatively small.
Anterior femora equal to the head, pronotum and mesonotum in length ; basal flexure distinct and occupying slightly more than the basal third; tibise equal to the femora in length.
jNIedian femora two-thirds the length of the anterior femora; tibiae about three-fourths the length of the femora; metatarsi about half as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora slightly exceeding the apex of the second abdominal segment; tibise about four-fifths the length of the femora; metatarsi about three-quarters the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
General color mars-brown, closely and almost uniformly sprinkled with minute specks of vandyke-brown.
Head with a distinct postocular streak of ecru-drab, which is bordered superiorly and interiorly by a line of blackish, genae ecru-drab; eyes vandyke-brown; antenni^e with each joint bearing a distinct apical blackish annulus.
Pronotum with a few subobsolete blackish blotches.
IMesonotum with the ground color of the anterior tuberculous portion dull cinnamon, several of the larger tubercles blackish, posterior smooth portion suffused with greenish-blue ; lateral carinse dull cinnamon bordered inferiorly by a line of blackish.
Metapleura and metasternum dull whitish.
Tegmina with an irregular longitudinal blackish line passing to the exterior of the median tubercle.
Wings with the costal and discoidal fields of the general color; posterior field hyaline.
Limbs irregularly and rather obscurely annulate with mummy-brown on a ground of wood-brown.
Measurements.
Total length, 79 mm.
Length of pronotum 3.5 " Length of mesonotum 9 " Length of metathorax, 11 " Measurements.
Length of tegmina 6.5 mm.
Length of wings, 48 " Length of abdomen, 49.5 " Length of anterior femora L5 " Length of anterior tibia^ 15.5 " Length of median femora, 11 " Length of posterior femora, 16 " Pseudophasma phthisioum (Linnaeus)?
1758.
[Gryllus (Mantis)] phthisicus Linnspus, Syst.
Nat., X ed., p. 425.
["Inlndiis."]
One male; Carrillo, Costa Rica.
[Coll.
Morgan Hebard.]
This specimen appears to be referable to this species, though differing considerably in coloration from the descriptions.
The S-shaped mark on the tegmina is but little crved, while the posterior part of the tegmina is as black as the general color of the insect.
The wings also carry a longitudinal dull ochraceous line along the greater portion of the discoidal region, in continuation of the median line on the tegmina.
The following measurements may be of interest : Total length, 55.5 mm.
Length of pronotum, .
4 " Length of mesonotum 4.7 " Length of metathorax 9.1 " Length of tegmina ' 6.5 " Length of wings, 38.5 " Length of abdomen 33 " Length of anterior femora 17.5 " Length of anterior tibia^, 17.5 " Length of median femora, ]5.8 " Length of posterior femora 20 " Pseudophasma menius (Westwood).
1S59.
Phafitna il/emws Westwood, Cat.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Miis., I, v. US, PI.
XVII, fig.
2.
[Colombia.]
Twelve specimens, all males; Carrillo, Costa Rica.
[Coll.
]\Iorgan Hebard.]
Carrillo and San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[U. S. N. M.] This scries ranges from mars-Ijrown to seal-brown in general color, while the posterior field of the wings shows all intermediates between ecru-drab and cinnamon.
Size, according to the series examined, appears to be.
subject to but little variation.
StaP® has recorded this species from Chiriqui, and Griffini^^ has mentioned a female specimen ** Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 97.
^' Bollet.
Mus.
Zool.
Anat.
Comp., Torino, XI, No.
23G, p. 2.
7 from the vicinity of the Rio Cianati, Darien, locahties which connect those above mentioned and that of the type.
Pseudophasma cryptochlore ^^ n. sp.
Type.
— c?
; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.V,349, U. S. N. M.] Apparently closely allied to P. gambrisius (Westwood),^^ from Venezuela, but differing in the structure of the apex of the abdomen, the shorter mesonotum and quite different coloration.
Relationship also exists with prasinum (Serville) and pholcus (Westwood).
Size small; form slender.
Head slightly longitudinal, subequal, considerably wider than the pronotum ; occiput with several fine longitudinal lines; ocelli very distinct, the anterior one considerably in advance of the others; ej'es subglobose, very prominent; antennae equal to the body in length, first and second joint cylindrical, the latter considerably smaller and shorter than the basal joint, third joint equal to the fourth and fifth together.
Pronotum about two-thirds the length of the mesonotum; anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; cruciform impression slight, the transverse arm toward the lateral margins deflected posteriorly; anterior angles normal though spiraculiferous.
]\Iesonotum rather short and slender, slightly and evenly constricted toward the middle; surface sparsely granulate; median longitudinal sulcus slight but distinct ; mesosternum rugulose with a distinct, though somewhat irregular, median carina.
IMetathorax al)out equal to the prothorax and mesothorax in length, beneath with a slight median sulcus.
Tegmina not more than half the leng-th of the metathorax, ovate ; median tubercle low and somewhat elongate ; longitudinal veins rather regularly disposed, transverse A'eins irregularly placed and producing a reticulate effect.
Wings almost equal to the body in length, twice as long as broad; costal area with the transverse veins rather regularly disposed.
Abdomen with the six basal segments longitudinal, very gradually decreasing in size toward the apex; seventh and eighth segments subequal in length, each shorter than the sixth ; ninth segment rather shorter than the eighth, apically subtruncate ; cerci rather short, terete, slightly curved; subgenital opercule slightly exceeding the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, cj^mbiform, the margin rounded, but de^'eloped into a distinct lip or rim.
Limbs of moderate length, the anterior and median femora consideral^ly exceeding their respective tibiip in length.
Anterior femora equal to the pronotum, *^ Kpv-ro^j hidden, and ;i'/w/)oc, green, in allusion to the green of the ventral surface.
« Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Bra.
Mus., I, p. US, PI.
XIV, fig.
2. mesonotum and tegmina in length; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints in length.
Median femora about equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length; metatarsi equal to the three succeeding joints in length.
Posterior femora not quite reaching the apex of the third abdominal segment; tibiae sHghtly shorter than the femora; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length.
General color above dull blackish; eyes umber; ocelli dull luteous; antennae blackish, toward the apex bearing two broad annuli of obscure .
whitish, which is almost entirely due to the silvery pubescence.
Tegmina with the principal longitudinal veins lined mth pale greenish ; wings with the costal and discoidal areas blackish, the longitudinal veins of the lateral regions lined with apple-green, posterior field of the wings blackish-hyaline, clear whitish basally, the area of the latter tint being comparatively small.
Abdomen blackish, becoming dull brownish on the anterior portion of the ventral surface.
Ventral and pleural surfaces of the thoracic segments apple-green.
Limbs apple-green with the distal portion of each joint blackish, this color on the anterior limbs being very extensive and considerably limiting the greenish area.
Measurements.
Total length, 40 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.5 " Length of mesonotum, 4 " Length of metathorax, 6.1 " Length of tegmina, 3.5 " Length of wings, 28 " Length of abdomen, 25.5 " Length of anterior femora, 10.5 " Length of anterior tibise, 7 " Length of median femora, 6.5 " Length of posterior femora, 10 " A paratype male has also been examined.
Pseudophasma cyllarus (Westwood).
1859.
Necroscia Cyllarus Westwood, Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 155, PI.
XIII, fig.
2, PI.
XIV, fig.
5.
[Jamaica.]
One male; Ivingston, Jamaica.
(T. D. A.
Cockerell.)
[U. S. N. M.] This species falls quite naturally into this genus, but that it is very aberrant there can be no doubt.
Genus PLANUDES StSl.
1875.
Planudes Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.
59 and 98.
Type.
— P. perillus Stal.
Planudes crenulipes n. sp.
Type.
— ?
; Tiicurrique, Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
7,350, U. S. N. M.] Allied to P. paxillus (Westwood)^" and P. periUus Stal.^^ From the former it differs in the absence of distinct spines on the head, the more ovate tegmina, the much longer wings, the slightly longer mesonotum and the lobate posterior femora.
From the latter it differs in the larger tegmina and wings, the rather different coloration of the wings, the smaller size, and apparently in the lobate posterior femora, although Stal does not state the condition of the limbs in the specimen examined.
Size medium; form elongate; surface rugoso-tuberculate.
Head longitudinal, equal in width and not broader than the pronotum; occiput with the tubercles rather low and grouped into longitudinal series, the median pair of which diverge posteriorly; eyes globose, rather small, prominent; antennae slightly exceeding the head and thorax in length, basal joint rather oblong, slightly depressed.
Pronotum slightly longer than the head, subequal; anterior and posterior margins truncate; tubercles of even size, disposed in distinct longitudinal series ; longitudinal sulcus very slight, transverse sulcus broad and shallow, but very marl^ed.
Mesonotum slightly over twice the length of the pronotum, gradually expanding posteriorly, surface rugosotuberculate ; metapleura finely rugulose ; metasternum with an irregular median longitudinal carina.
Metathorax about as long as the mesothorax, rather si3arsely tuberculate.
Tegmina elliptical; veins irregvilarly reticulate; median protuberance high, blunt, the posterior portion curved inward toward the anal margin.
Wings four times as long as the tegmina, reaching to the middle of the fourth abdominal segment, not quite twice as long as wide; venation rather regular proximally becoming subreticulate distally.
Abdomen over half again as long as the head and thorax, the six basal segments longitudinal, the first and second shorter than the succeeding divisions; seventh segment subquadrate; eighth and ninth segments distinctly transverse, the latter shorter than the former, and with the apical margin subtruncate and distinctly crenulate; cerci very short, slight and simple, lateral in position; subgenital opercule short, reaching the apex of the seventh dorsal segment, carinate, apex acuminate.
Limbs short.
Anterior femora about equal to the mesonotum in length, margins crenulate; tibice slightly shorter than the femora, margins crenulate; metatarsi not more than half as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora so Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 127, PI.
XI, fig.
5. "
Rec.
Orthopt., Ill, p. 98. slightly shorter than the anterior tibiso in length, margins very slightly crenulate; tibiae slightly over two-thirds the length of the mesonotiim, margins moderately and irregularly crenulate; metatarsi less than half the length of the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora about equal to the mesonotum in length, superior margins dentato-crenulate, the anterior one with the processes very large, inferior margins with distinct rounded foliaceous lobes ; tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, the superior margins wdtli distinct hemispherical lobes; metatarsi about half as long as the remaining tarsal joints.
General color olive, irregularly blotched and sprinkled with patches of wood-brown and bearing a very pale suffusion of pea-green on the wings and tegmina.
Wings with the base of the costal and the whole discoidal area suffused with a wash of vinaceous pink; posterior area pale smoky-hyaline, the veins pale brownish, the whole surface bearing an indefinable bloom of pinkish vinaceous, best seen by viewing the wing obliquely.
Measurements.
Total length, 63 mm.
Length of pronotum, 4 " Length of mesonotum, 8 " Length of metathorax, 8.5 " Length of tegmina, 7 " Length of wings, 26 " Length of abdomen, 40 " Length of anterior femora, 9.5 " Length of anterior tibiae, 8.5 " Length of median femora, 7 " Length of posterior femora, 8 " Genus XEROSOMA Serville.
1831.
Xerosoma Serville, Ann.
Sci.
Nat., XXII, p. 01.
Type.
— Xerosoma canaliculatum Serville.
Xerosoma glyptomerion ^n. sp.
Types.
— d' ; San Carlos, Costa Rica.
(Schiid and Burgdorf.)
[Cat.
No.
7,351, U. S. N. M.] 9 ; Carrillo, Costa Rica.
[A. N. S.
Phila., presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.]
Apparently closer allied to senticosa StaP^ than any other member of the genus, Ijut still very distinct.
It can readily be separated by the absence of distinct spines on the pronotum, the greater number of cephalic spines, the shorter mesonotum of the female and a number of other characters.
52 ylvnro^, sculptured, and MP'm>, thigh.
*' Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 99. d^.
— Size rather small; form elongate; surface generally rugulose.
Head moderately elongate, subequal; occiput with four distinct spiniform processes; interocular region with three triangularly disposed rather blunt processes, the anterior one smaller than the other two, and bearing upon their summits the ocelli; eyes subglobose, very prominent; antennae equal to the body in length, first and second joint about equal in length, the basal joint somewhat depressed; whole surface with a number of evenly distributed spiniform tubercles.
Pronotum about equal to the head in length, rather narrower than the head, subequal in width, anterior angles with a slight projecting process; anterior and posterior margins truncate; cruciform depression with the transverse arm stronger than the longitudinal branch.
Mesonotum about twice the length of the pronotum, subequal in width, somewhat elevated posteriorly; median longitudinal sulcus very distinct posteriorly, obsolete anteriorly; surface rugoso-tuberculate, four spiniform symmetrically disposed tubercles flank the median line ; mesosternum rugose.
Metathorax about equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length, metapleura and the metasternum sparsely and weakly tuberculate.
Tegmina about equal to the metathorax in length, cylindrical-ovate in outline, the base and apex produced and angulate; median protuberance very distinct, high, rounded, compressed; veins subreticulate, surface rather coriaceous.
Wings extending to the middle of the sixth abdominal segment, twice as long as broad; apex subrectangulate.
Abdomen with the six basal segments longitudinal, decreasing in length distally; seventh dorsal segment twothirds the leng-th of the sixth; eighth segment considerably shorter than, and ninth about equal to, the seventh segment, the latter compressed, subrostrate and vnih the apical margin with a shallow median ^'-shaped emargination ; cerci slender, straight and equal to the ninth dorsal segment in leng-th; subgenital opercule slightly exceeding the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, basally bullate, apical portion compressed, rather rostrate, the apex itself with a shallow triangular emargination.
Limbs slender and simple; tibiae about equal to their respective femora in length.
Anterior femora equal to the tegmina, mesonotum and half of the pronotum in leng-th, basal flexure marked; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Median femora about equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length ; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints.
Posterior femora reaching to the middle of the third abdominal segment ; metatarsi very slightly shorter than the succeeding joints.
General color dull paris-green and prout's-brown intermingled.
Head with the spines clear green ; eyes wahiut-brown ; antennae greenish, each segment with a narrow apical annulus of brown.
Mesonotum with the larger spines tipped with clear brown.
Tegmina with the median protuberances clear green.
Wings with the costal and discoidal regions bearing strongly contrasted blotches of the two colors washed with an ochraceoiis tint; posterior field smoky-hyaline.
Limbs with the usual coloration, but the tibiae have the green clear and vitreous.
?
.
— Size medium ; form moderately elongate ; surface rugosctuberculate.
Head somewhat longitudinal, subeciual in width; occiput bearing about twelve formidable spines ranged in four longitudinal series, of which the median pair contain the greatest number of spines and the posterior ones of which are recurved and considerably larger than any of the others ; interocular region with the ocellar spines much reduced, the anterior one practically obsolete, the ocellus but slightly raised above the surrounding surface; eyes subglobose, moderately prominent; antennge wdth the basal joint strongly depressed; entire dorsal surface sprinkled with small spiniform tubercles.
Pronotum slightly shorter than the head, very strongly emarginate over the anterior coxae; anterior margin broadly and evenly emarginate, posterior margin truncate ; median line flanked by a longitudinal row of several short spines.
Mesonotum not quite twice the length of the pronotum, subequal in width ; no median carina or sulcus present ; surface strongly rugoso-tuberculate ; mesopleurse and mesosternum rugoso-tuberculate, the lower margins of the former and the lateral borders of the latter bearing distinct tuberculous ridges.
Metathorax slightly longer than the other thoracic segments together; metasternum obsoletely tuberculate ; metapleurte bearing along their lower margins a series of four distinct rounded tubercles.
Tegmina equal to the head, pronotum and mesonotum in length, elongate-elliptical; apex narrowly romided; tubercle placed distinctly anterior to the middle, high, roimded, compressed; surface coriaceous, subreticulate, and bearing a number of small node-like projections.
Wings about equal to the abdomen in length; costal and discoidal areas with the transverse nervures rather regular in character.
Abdomen depressed, each segment with the lateral margins developed into a more or less crenulate foliaceous flap ; the five basal segments longitudinal, the fifth broader than the others; sixth segment quadrate; seventh, eighth and ninth segments transverse, decreasing in length distally, median carina present on the seventh and represented by two parallel ridges on the eighth, ninth segment crcnulato-truncate; cerci slender, almost equal to the ninth dorsal segment in length, apex blunt ; subgenital opercule rather short, reaching to the middle of the eighth dorsal segment, V-shaped in section, the apex subtrmicate with a triangular median projection.
Limbs rather short j-^* tibiae about equal to their respective femora in length; femora with nearly all their carinse bearing distinct subdentiform lobes, those of the superior carinse being the more prominent; tibiae with superior margins only bearing such lobes.
Anterior femora almost equal to the tegmina in length, basal flexure distinct and strongly bowed, superior external margin bearing five lobes, ^^ superior internal margin four lobes, the inferior internal margin none, the inferior external margin ten; tibise bearing four very large and distinct lobes on the external margin, internal margin with four smaller lobes placed in juxtaposition to those of the external margin; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remaining tarsal joints, and bearing several small jagged lobes on its superior surface.
]\Iedian femora equal to the mesonotum and half of the metanotum in length, superior margins with five lobes placed in juxtaposition, inferior margins with four distinct lobes placed as on the superior carinse, median carina of the lower surface with several obsolete lobes; tibise with five more or less distinct lobes placed as on the anterior limbs; metatarsi not exceeding the second and third tarsal joints in length, unarmed.
General color olive and drab, intermingled and suffused on the head, portions of the thorax and anterior limbs with very pale cinnamon.
Eyes walnut-brown.
Tegmina pale paris-grcen, which becomes rather clear and subvitrcous on the protuberances.
Measurements.
.
6" 9 Total length, 54 mm.
65 mm.
Length of pronotum, 2.G " 3 " Length of mesonotum, 6.2 " 6.5 " Length of metanotum, 8.1 " 11 Length of tegmina, S " 14 " Length of wings, 33 " 50 '' Length of abdomen, 33 " 49 " Length of anterior femora 14.5 " 13 " Length of anterior tibia?, 14.5 " 12 " Length of median femora, 8.5 " 8 " Length of posterior femora, 12 " Further study may possil^ly show that the two sexes here described as one species represent two forms.
In such a case the name can ]jc restricted to the male.
^* Posterior pair missing in the type.
^^ As the left leg appears abnormal in a number of ways, these figures have been taken from the riglit limb.
Genus METRIOTES Westwood.
1859.
Metriotes Westwood, Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 15S.
Type.
— Metriotes diodes Westwood.^'' Metriotes agathocles St&l.
1875.
M[etriotes\ Agathocles Stal, Recensio OrthopteroruDi, III, p. 100.
["Australia?
Sine dubio species americana."]
One female; Costa Rica.
(Schild and Burgdorf.)
[U. S. X. M.] This specimen fully agrees with the very insufficient description of the specimen Stal had in hand, but unfortunateh' the anterior limbs are missing, and a portion of Stal's diagnosis treats of these appendages.
Genus PRISOPUS St. Fargeau and Serville.
1825.
Prisopus St. Fargeau and Serville, Encj'c.
]\Iethod., Insect., X, p. 444.
Included Prisopus draco Olivier (=Phasma nym.
'pha St oil) and sacratus Olivier { = Phasma flabelliformis St oil).
Prisopus berosus Westwood.
1859.
Prisopus Berosus Westwood, Catal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, p. 168, PI.
XX, fig.
7.
["Litt.
occid.
America septentrionalis.
Panama."]
Two specimens; cT and immature female: X'icaragua.
[U. S. X^.
M.] Carrillo, Costa Rica.
[Coll.
Morgan Hebard.]
Subfamily PHYLLIN.E.
Genus PHYLLIUM lUiger.
1798.
Phyllium lUiger, Verzeichniss Kafer Preussens, p. 499.
Type.
— Mantis siccifolia Fabricius = Gryllus (Mantis) siccifolius LiimjEUS.
The three species treated below all belong to GrifRni's subgenus Pulchriphyllium.^^ ^^ Westwood's genus included the following species: stollii.
blanchardi.
santara — Isagoras Stal, 1875. bubastes — Isagoras Stal, 1875. obscura — Isagoras Stal, 1875. dictys — Prexaspes Stal, 1875. myrsihis.
diodes.
venosa.
acuticornis.
serrillei — Prexaspes Stal, 1875. brevipennis.
rugicollis.
Of these diodes can be selected as the type.
^' Bollettino Mttsei Zool.
ed Anat.
Co7tip.
', Torino, XIII, Xo.
312, p. 2.
Phyllium bioculatum Gray.
1832.
[Phyllium'] hioculatmn Gray, in Griffith's Anim.
Kingdom.
X^^ p. 191, PI.
63, fig.
3.
[Locality unknown.]
One female; Seychelles.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N.
:\I.]
This specimen is of a very pale yellowish-green color.
WestwoocP^ states regarding this species that the "male seems to me scarcely to differ materially from that of Ph.
Scythe."
Such is by no means true of the female, as this sex of the two species presents very different appearances.
Phyllium pulchrifolium Serville.
1839.
Phyllium piilchrifolium Serville, Orthopteres, p. 292.
[Java.]
Three specimens ; tw^o adult females, one immature male : Java.
[A. N. S.
Phila.]
Near Buitenzorg, Java, July, 1897.
(D. G.
Fairchild.)
[U. S. N.
I\I.]
"Collected on leaves of Nephelium lappaceiim."
The female from Buitenzorg has the tegmina and limbs Vv'ood-brown, while the body is faded greenish.
Information with the specimen states the color is due to imperfect drying.
Wliile this is ciuite likely true of the body, it is hardly probable that the tegmina have changed.
In the event of the specimen having possessed brown tegmina, it would approach the brown variety described by Lucas^^ from Batavi-i.
Phyllium scythe Gray.
1843.
Phyllium Scythe Grav, Zoologist, I, p. 122, figure (on page 121).
[Sylhet.]
One female; Trong, Lower Siam.
(Dr. W. L.
Abbott.)
[U. S. N. M.] This spcciiTicn differs slightly from the figure given by West wood, ^^ the apex of the abdomen being more constricted, in fact somewhat approaching -pulclirijolium in this respect.
After carefully examining the literature, it a]3pears very much as if the scythe and pidchrijolimn were simply geograj^hic races of the same species, the Trong specimen being a direct intermediate, both structurally and gcographicalh-.
Gray's reference of Haan's figure^^ of pulchrifolimn to scythe appears erroneous, as the form of the abdomen and almost all the accessory lobes of the limbs rei^resent true pulchrijolium.
The Trong specimen has the right posterior limb regenerated and alDout one-fifth the normal size.
58 Catol.
Orth.
his.
Brit.
Mus..
I, p. 175.
'■>^ Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
France (5), VII, p. xxxiii.
«<> Cntal.
Orth.
Ins.
Brit.
Mus., I, PI.
XXXI, fig.
2.
^1 Natuurl.
Gesch.
Xederl.
Ocerzeesche Bezitt., Insecta, PI.
XV, fig.
6.
Another specimen, a very immature female, from Khow Sai Dow, Trong, collected in January or February, 1899, by Dr. Abbott, may be referable to this species, but considering the condition of the specimen a positive determination is impossible.
Remarks on the General System of the Family.
While not prepared to bring forward any very radical departures from Brunner's table of the divisions of this group,^^ it may not be out of place to mention the impressions received while studying the material herewith recorded.
Brunner's Lonchodidce, Bacunculidce and BacteridcB appear to be much closer related than his arrangement would lead one to suppose.
The Heieronemince (Bacunculidce Brunner) is very close to the Bacterince; in fact, it is extremely difficult to settle into which division to put certain genera, and this is so marked that Kirby has transferred some genera placed by Brunner in the Bacunculidce to the Bacterina;.
The genera Phyllium and Chitoniscus are such extremely aberrant types that the division including them should have higher taxonomic rank than generally accorded to it.
Laying aside the question as to whether the divisions should be of family or subfamily rank, it appears evident that Brunner's Lonchodidce, Bacunculidce and Bacteridce are simply divisions of a group not exceeding in rank the well-marked Necroscidce.
Again, the Phyllidoe should have a rating practically equal to the other members of the "Phasmodea," a position warranted by its extreme differentiation.
«2 Ann.
Mus.
Civ.
Star.
Nat.
Cenova, XXXIII, pp.
79-81.
THE KOSES OF PECOS, NEW MEXICO.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL.
Pecos, New Mexico, is on the upper Pecos river, about 6,800 feet above sea level and no A^ery great distance from Santa Fe.
It has essentially the flora made familiar to botanists everywhere by the collections of Fendler and Heller, the cafion a few miles above the village furnishing Galpinsia fendleri (Gray), Cerens triglochidiatus Engelm., Sphceralcea fendleri Gray, Viola neomexicana Greene, Berberis fendleri Gray, Linum aiistrale Heller, L. puherulum (Engelm.
), Verbena macdougali Heller, Philadelphus microphyllus Gray (the flowers of which have an odor like that of spoiled oranges), Salix irrorata Anders., Sidalcea neomexicana Gray, etc., etc.
The bottom land through which the Pecos river flows is thickly wooded for a few miles on the Kin Kale Ranch, the trees being Popidus angusUfolia James, with a mixture of willows, Alnus tenuifolia Nuttall, and on the outskirts Quercus novomexicana (A.DC), Q. leptophylla Rydberg (new to New Mexico), etc.
Under the shade of the trees it is cool and moist, so that members of the Canadian zone flora are able to grow, while a fcAv hundred yards away the dry bluffs possess a typically austral and xerophytic assemblage of plants.
As a result of these conditions the locality, taken as a whole, is remarkably rich in species of both plants and animals.
The roads and cultivated fields are skirted by oakbushes, including the peculiar Quercus havardi Rydberg, only known previously from Texas.
Roses are abundant, and a few species of climbing plants {Clematis ligusticifolia Nutt., Humulus lupidus neomexicanus Nelson and CklL, Parthenocissus quinquefolia (L.) Planch) are very conspicuous.
The common weeds include Grindelia inorrmta Greene, Lathyrus decaphyllus Pursh, Argentinia anserina (L.), Vicia americana Muhl., Salsola tragus L., Anogra coronopifoUa (T. and G.), Verbascum thapsus L., Erodium cicutarium (L.), Physalis pubescens L., Allionia viscida {Oxybaphus angustifolius var.
viscidus Eastwood, Pr.
Cal.
Ac.
Sci., 1896, p. 313), Solanum jamesii Torrey, Helianthus petiolaris Nutt., H .
annuus L., etc.
Quite a surprise was the discovery of a -large quantity of Chrysanthemum leucanthemum in a field on the Kin Kale Ranch, this plant being hitherto unknown in New Mexico.
The austral Solanum ekeagnifolium was seen growing near Harrison's Store, while Sophia halidorum Ckll.
(with the beetle PhyUotreta pusilla Horn, living upon it), occupied the roofs of adobe houses in the village.
At the Old Pecos Pueblo, a few miles to the south, we found Astragalus simulans Ckll., hitherto only known from Las Vegas.
Malvastrwn cockerelH A. Nelson, was very common on the Kin Kale Ranch; so also was the beautiful Touterea rushyi (Wooton).
Fallugia acuminata (F. paradoxa acuminata Wooton) and F. acuminata micrantha {F. micrantha Ckll.)
formed large patches, and were very attractive to insects.
The scarlet Castilleia Integra Gray, with the large-bracted form intermedia Ckll., were very conspicuous.
A single plant of Datura tatula L., is worth recording; it is, of course, an accidental introduction.
Onosmodium thurberi Gray, grew in some quantity by the Pecos river.
Spending a summer in this beautiful place, I took the opportunity to study the native roses.
The result of this study is here presented, not because I have reached any final or dogmatic opinions, but because it seems that field-study in many different localities is the only method whereby the species of the group Cinnamomese will ever be understood.
When we have accumulated a sufficient number of observations on the living plants, some talented botanist may find himself able to tell us what they all mean; but for the present observations are perhaps of more consequence than deductions.
A large part of the material studied was collected and brought to me in the living state by Dr. M. Grabham, of Jamaica, who spent part of the Slimmer at Pecos.
I was able to distinguish three main forms, two of which are here introduced as new.
While it is difficult, if not impossible, to state definitely how many valid species exist among the Cinnamomese, it seems much better to designate the recognizable forms by name, than to lump them indiscriminately under the few specific titles.
It is just this process of lumping which has made so much confusion, the same name being applied to a different plant by each of several authors.
The characters of the three forms referred to may best be set forth in parallel columns.
no [Jan., Rosa arkansana Porter, var.
a.
Low bush.
Flowers about 45 mm.
cliam., pink, petals white at base.
Flowers many together.
Anthers longer.
Stigmas pinkish in bud, without any pink in open flower.
Sepals foliolar-tipped, narrow, with woolly edges, entire, with many reddish stout gland-hairs beneath and on the sides of tlie apical half.
Sepals very long (up to 21 mm.
), projecting far beyond bud.
Fruit (Aug. 13) smooth, globose, neckless, the sepals erect.
Buds very glandular.
Peduncles glabrous^ shining.
Prickles slender and scattered on stems ; few and scattered on flowering branchlets; straight.
Infrastipular spines none, or not distinguishable from tlie others.
Stipules broad (diam.
about 12 mm.
), resinous, not villous.
R. ■prcetincta, n. sp.
{ov R. pecosensis, n. sp.
(or var.?).
var.?).
^ Rather low bush.
Flowers pale pink.
Flowers usually in threes (2-1-1), sometimes 2 only, sometimes 4.
Stigmas deep red in bud, pale pinkish in open flower.
Sepals quite glandular, the outer with linear lobes.
Sepals short (up to 13 mm.
), not projecting much beyond bud.
Fruit globose.
Buds glandular.
Prickles on old growth few and straight; green parts unarmed.
No infrastipular spines.
Sitpules often narrow.
Usually high bush.
Flowers about 50 mm.
diam., deep crimson, petals white at base.
Flowers in pairs, or often single.
Anthers shorter.
Stigmas pinkish in bud, pale yellow in open flower.
Sepals foliolar-tipped, narrow, with woolly edges, with linear lateral lobes, and wholly without reddish glandhairs.
Sepals medium (up to about 15 mm.
), projecting moderately beyond bud.
Fruit gloliose, S mm.
diameter, with hardly any neck; sepals persistent, erect, but reflexed immediately after flowering Buds minutely pubescent, not glandular.
Peduncles sparsely sublanate with scattered hairs.
Prickles slender and scattered on stems ; few and scattered on flowering branchlets, where they are more or less hooked.
Infrastipular spines absent, or sometimes present in pairs, all on same branch.
Stipules narrow (diam.
about 6 mm.
), sparingly villous Ijeneath, not glandular.
1904.
Ill Rosa arkansana Porter, R. prcetincia, n. sp.
(or R. pecosensis, n. sp.
(or var.
a.
var.?).
var.?).
Petioles glabrous, with numerous knobbed gland-hairs.
Leaflets 7 on flowering branches, 9 on new shoots from base.
Leaflets mostly smaller and broader, e.g., 20 mm.
long, 16 broad; lateral leaflets almost sessile, except on basal shoots; midrib beneath glabrous, with numerous short red glandhairs ; serrations minutely serrulate, with numerous small knobbed glands.
Leaflets commonly only 5, often 7, often 5 + an odd basal one.
Leaflets unusually long and narrow, e.g., 25 mm.
long, 13 broad; cuneate at base; resindotted beneath, midribs witliout obvious gland-hairs ; serrations deep and simple, margin without glandhairs.
Petioles minutely pubescent, not glandular.
Leaflets 7, sometimes 9, sometimes 5, with an odd basal leaflet making 6.
Leaflets mostly larger and narrower in proportion, e.g., 33 mm.
long, 20 broad; lateral leaflets distinctly petiolulate; midrib beneath lanulate with short hairs, not glandular ; serrations simple, sharp, margin minutely hairy, not glandular.
All these plants have dull green foliage, not shiny, as Elias Nelson describes R. woodsii.
This also separates them from R. neomexicana Ckll., of southern New Mexico, described in Entomological News, February, 1901, p. 41.^ This Rosa neomexicana is further distinguished by the oblong fruits, which are small and scarlet, with persistent erect sepals.
It also has normally pairs of infrastipular spines, and mostly solitary flowers.
Rosa pecosensis is one of the most beautiful roses known to me.
The type was collected by my wife and Dr. Grabham, about six miles up the cafion above the Kin Kale Ranch, June 1, 1903; but the j^lant is also common down as far as the village of Pecos.
When the flowers first open the petals are depressed, so that they lie below the plane, the surface of the flower becoming convex.
A curious character observed is the presence of a deep notch in one petal only, always an inner one.
The flowers vary in size down to about 42 mm.
diameter, or occasionally only 37 mm.
If the three roses described above always held their characters, tliere would be no hesitation about regarding them as distinct species.
Specimens occur, however, which vary in different wa3'S, and some of them ^ The article containing this description was intended for Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., but was transferred to the News, for which it is altogether too botanical.
appear to connect the main types.
It is possible that this may in part be the result of hybridization, but we are not entitled to assume this without better evidence.
The observed variations are as follows: Bosa peoosensis.
(1) Upper Pecos-town, June 19.
Flowers very fragrant, about 37 mm.
diameter; sepals entire, rarely with linear lobes; leaflets minutely resin-dotted beneath; leaflets on basal sheets sometimes eleven.
Infested sparingly by Eidecanium.
(2) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21 (Grabham).
Flowers bright pink, not so dark as some; 45 mm.
diameter; no strongly notched petal; sepals rarely with linear lobes ; stipules 5 mm.
broad or rather more ; leaflets 7.
(3) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21.
(Grabham.)
As usual, except that the sepals sometimes show some marginal red knobbed gland-hairs.
(4) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21.
(Grabham.)
Flowers very deep red; outer sepals with cjuite a numl^er of red gland-hairs; midribs of leaflets beneath with scattered very short and minute red gland-hairs; leaf-margins inclined to be doubly serrate, the secondary serrations gland-tipped; leaflets almost sessile; flowers single.
This is in many respects like the R. arkansana var.
o, and could be a hybrid, if hybrids occur.
(5) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21.
(Grabham.)
Typical, but stipules variable up to 8 mm.
broad.
(6) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21.
(Grabham.)
Flowers paler, rosepink, about 36 mm.
diameter; leaves unusually large (upper lateral leaflets up to 33 mm.
long); midribs of leaflets lanulose beneath, with only rudimentary gland-hairs; leaflets deeply and simply notched; sepals lanulose, not glandular, with linear lateral lobes; flowers solitary or in pairs; stigmas yellowish in rather advanced bud.
This is essentially pecosensis, the only material difference l^eing in the paler flowers.
Seen from a distance, the flowers of R. pecoscnsis always appear single, as one bud of a pair comes out before the other.
The plants are sometimes infested by prickly leaf-galls, of the species Rhodites spinoselliis Ckll.
Rosa prsetincta.
No varieties were found.
In Watson's table this species runs to R. hlanda, except that the sepals are not entire.
In Crepin's table it also runs to blanda, except that the flowers are comparatively small.
There is no R. blanda in New ^lexico, however.
Rosa arkansana var.
a. I had considered this to be the true R. fendleri of Crepin, not of 8.
Watson.
Dr. Rydberg, to whom I sent a copy of my description, wrote that he could not agree with this, but that I apparently had the longlost R. arkansana Porter, only certainly known bj^ the original collection by Brandegee.
As this seems reasonable, I provisionally call my plant arkansana, the more willingly since the name has priority over jendleri, supposing them to refer to one species.
The material described above grows by a small irrigation ditch in open unshaded groimd, which except for the ditch is very drj^ On August 13 a fruiting bush of the same species was found close to the Pecos river, more or less in the shade.
It possessed the following characters : Fruit very shiny, smooth, globose (long.
9^, lat.
9, to long.
12, lat.
10 mm.
), slightly longer than broad, without the slightest indication of a neck.
Sepals erect, 15 mm.
long, some with linear lobes ; the margins woolly, the dorsal sm-face with loose arachnoid hairs and scattered gland-hairs.
Peduncles perfectly glabrous and somewhat glaucous, 5-10 mm.
long.
Infrastipular spines variable, present or absent.
Spines on flowering branchlets straight.
Stipules very narrow, diameter 2-4 mm., beneath with loose arachnoid hairs and short reddishgland-hairs; petioles minutely pubescent, with scattered short red gland-hairs; leaflets 7 to 9, rather narrow {e.g., long.
23, lat.
12^ mm.
), resin-dotted beneath, simply toothed, edges not glandular, lateral leaflets briefly petiolulate.
A low bush.
It will be seen that this in many respects approaches R. pccosensis.
R. arkansana, var.
a, was infested by an aphid, which appears to be identical with Myzus rosarum Walker.
In order to appreciate the characters of the Pecos roses, it is necessary to review the described North American species of the same group, and also certain forms occurring in other parts of Xew ^lexico.
The Described Species.
(1) Rosa grosseserrata E. Nelson.
Bot.
Gaz., August, 1900, p. 119.
Type from the Yellowstone Park, collected in fruit.
I am indebted to Prof. Aven Nelson for a specimen.
This is quite like typical R. pecosensis in the serrations and pubescence of the leaves ; the serrations are long and pointed, perfectly simple and not glandular.
The stipules are broader than in pecosensis.
The fruit is considerably larger, about 12 mm.
diameter.
The author of this species-name thinks the plant is intermediate between R. pisocarpa and R. icoodsii, and I believe that it is not so close to pecosensis as the resemblance of the leaves might suggest.
The absence of paired infrastipular spines or prickles seems to remove R. grosseserrata from the vicinity of R. pisocarpa and S woodsii, but I am convinced that the value of this character has been much exaggerated.
Crepin in liis table (1896) indicates the variabilitj^ of pisocarpa in this respect.
(2) E. arkansana Porter.
Much emphasis has been placed upon the statement in the original description that the sepals are reflexed in fruit.
This seems to distinguish my plant from the true arkansana (the fruit was miknown whemi consulted Dr. Rydberg), but I strongly suspect that, as is usual in the group, the sepals are more or less reflexed at first, but ultimately erect.
Another discrepancy is in the leaflets, which are 9 to 11 in true arkansana, but 7 to 9 in my plant.
The other characters seem very similar in both plants.
(3) R. fendleri Crepin.
I regret very much that I cannot make sure of fendleri, but this is perhaps not surprising, as Crepin himself did not know what to do with it twenty years after its description.
Dr. Rydberg writes: ''My idea ofJRJfendleri is a low shrub with evident infrastipular spines, and with stipules, petioles and peduncles glandular."
No such rose as this was founcljat' Pecos.
Rehder's account of R. fendleri (in Bailey's Cyclopedia of American Horiicidture) indicates a totally different plant from that indicated by Dr. Rydberg, much more in the manner of R. pecosensis.
However, the sepals are said to be quite entire, and the flowers normally in clusters.
(4) R.'^gymnocarpa Nuttall.
Easily separated from ours by the deciduous sepals.
(5) R. neomexicana Ckll.
Fruits oblong; sec above.
(6) R. aciculata (Ckll.).
Wet Moimtain Valley, Colorado.
Described as R. blanda var.
aciculata in Science Gossip, 1SS9, p. 18S.
Type at Kew; photographs distributed to several herbaria.
This has the flowers not very large, bright pink; prickles straight, slender, pale; sepals entire, hispid; stipules dilated, entire or slightly toothed at apex; leaflets 5 to 7, broadoval, simply'serrate, pale beneath.
There are no paired infrastipular prickles.
This appears to bo allied to R. sayi, which occurs in the same vicinity, but the leaves arc very much smaller, and their marginal teeth are normally simple.
(7) R. sayi Schwein.
Low, with large, thin, doubly-serrate leaflets; grows in moist places, and occurs as far south as Beulah, New Mexico.
Just how far the characters of this rose result directly from its surroundings is perhaps an open question.
If it could be transferred to a dry sunny place the result might be something not very different from aciculata; but this is mere guessing.
The type locahty of sayi is somewhere near the British boundary.
(8) R. engelmanni S. Wats.
Rehder gives this and sayi both as varieties of R. acicularis Lindley, but this seems imreasonable.
I have foimd R. engelmanni abundantly near the Halfway House on Pike's Peak, Colorado, and it seems very distinct by its greatly elongated fruit.
(9) R. pratincola Greene.
The prairie species, formerly confused with arkansana.
It is only one or two feet high, and has 7 to 11 leaflets.
The stipviles are only softly pubescent.
(10) R. suifulta Greene.
A low form of open gromid, described from Las Vegas, New Mexico, where I have collected it.
I found it many years ago at Ula, Colorado, and described it in MS. as a new variety of R. arkansana, but the description was not published.
My specimen is at Kew, The flowers are quite large, 66 mm.
across, the petals pale, and often inclined to be streaked.
(11) R. manca Greene.
W, Mancos Cafion, S. Colorado, at 10,000 feet.
Another of the small species, about a foot high.
The recurved prickles, small flowers, very narrow stipules, etc., distinguish it.
(12) R. macounii Greene.
Assiniboia to Cheyenne, Wyoming.
A low shrub of dry elevated plains ; leaves wholly glandless, leaflets mostly 9 or 11 ; flowers solitary, small and rather pale ; fruits depressed-globose.
(13) R. woodsii Lindley.
A northern species, apparently not found in New Mexico.
According to Watson, it is distinguished by the presence of infrastipular spines and laterally lobed outer sepals, and is usually a low bush, not over three feet high.
Rydberg {Flora of Montana) states that the R. fendleri of Watson and Coulter is the true R. woodsii, and remarks that the character of lobed sepals is inconstant, and that in Lindley's original description they are said to be entire.
The fruit is small and red, and the leaves are nearly glabrate, and according to E. Nelson shiny, those of R. fendleri being dull.
Rehder in his table says the sepals of R. pisocarpa and fendleri are quite entire, while those of woodsii are lobed; in this he doubtless merely follows Watson.
He suggests, however, that pisocarpa and fendleri may be varieties of woodsii.
Cr^pin, in 1896, dismissed woodsii as a doubtful species.
Lindley, in his first description, said the prickles were scattered, becoming paired (under the stipules) toward the extremities.
In Bot.
Reg., XII, PI.
976, lie figured them as quite regularly paired, both on the branches and floriferous branchlets; the leaflets are represented as oboval and attenuate at base, with simple teeth.
It will be apparent from all this that B. woodsii is not well understood, but it seems to be a low northern form allied to the R. neomexicana of New Mexico, and not to any of the Pecos roses.
There is in the Kew herbarium a rose labelled R. arkansana, from ]\Iedicine Hat, June 1, 1894, John Macoun, 4,567.
It has the leaflets in sevens, pale, more or less cordate or truncate, varying to more rounded, sharply serrate ; flowers rather small, corymbose ; sepals reflexed after flowering, without lateral lobes.
This is certainly not R. macounii, nor can it very well be the real cvkansana; may it be the genuine ivoodsii ?
(14) R. maximiliani Nees.
A species of western Nebraska, differing from ivoodsii by its larger yellow fruit and more pubescent leaves.
(15) R. blanda Aiton.
, A smooth, slightly prickly rose of Hudson's Bay and Newfoundland.
Various Rocky Mountain plants have been confused wdth it.
(16) R. acicularis Lindley.
An Arctic species of the Old World (Siberia and northern Europe), said by Watson to occur in northern Alaska.
It has oblong fruit; leaves with five leaflets, with simple teeth and not glandular beneath.
The Rock}' Mountain representative is R. engelmanni.
(17) R. californica C. and S. This Californian rose is represented in the Rocky ^Mountains b}^ var.
vltramontana Watson, which Crepin thought rather a variety of R. pisocarpa.
Dr. Rydberg, after seeing my description of R. pccoscnsis, suggested that it might be ''R.
californica idtramoniana, a good species not closely related to R. californica, and growing in Utah, Wyoming and Colorado."
However, when this suggestion was made the fruit of R. pecosensis had not been discovered.
(18) R. pisocarpa Gray.
A species of Oregon, with oval leaflets, stipules and bracts entire, small flowers and small globose fruits.
Extends northward to Pritisli Columbia.
(19) R. nutkana Presl.
Alaska to Utah, but there is no evidence that it occurs as far south as New Mexico.
Rydberg says : " Recognized by its large flowers,, stout spines, doubly serrate firm leaves and large fruit."
This suggests sayi, but the latter has thin leaves, and lacks the infrastipular spines of nutkana.
(20) R. macdougali Holz.
A species of the northern Rocky ^Mountains, distinguished from nutkana by the densely bristly peduncles, and the infrastipular spines much smaller.
(21) R. melina Greene.
A Colorado species confused with nutkana, but distinct by its small glabrous foliage, short and hooked prickles, and sepals neither longattenuate nor glandular on the back.
The fruit is very large, somewhat obpyriform, nearly 1^ inches in diameter.
Perhaps the Utah '' nutkana" will also be found to belong here.
There are still other species of Cinnamomese, but from their distribution and characters they do not require consideration here.
It is hoped that the above summary will facilitate the identification of Rocky Mountain roses.
Some New^ Mexico Roses.
(1) Manzanares Valley, New Mexico (Mary Cooper).
A rose with large leaves, having the characters of R. sayi, but the serrations only very slightly compound.
Inflorescence one-flowered, flowers bright pink.
A moderate number of prickles on flowering branch.
The lateral leaflets are about 30 mm.
long and 20 broad.
I refer this to R. sayi, variety.
(2) Santa Fe, New Mexico (Cockerell) ; in herb.
N. M. Agric.
College.
Flowering stems with numerous slender straight prickles; stems not dark; leaflets often in elevens, cmieiform with broadly rounded ends, very slightly inclined to be doubly serrate, about 28 mm.
long and 18 broad, color on both sides nearly the same ; sepals narrow, covered with large Icnobbed gland-hairs; fruit red, rather large, obpyriform, almost globular; sepals persistent.
This runs to R. arkansana in Cr^pin's table ; it is nearly the same as R. suffulta, differing by the very obtuse leaflets and more glandular sepals.
Can this be the genuine R. fendleri?
(3) White Mountains, New Mexico (Turner) ; in herb.
N. M. Agric.
College.
This was found labelled "fendleri," but it is very different from the Santa Fe plant by its dark flowering sterns^ with few but Straight and strong ochreous spines; leaves pale beneath, leaflets 5 or 7; flowers bright pink, not large.
This is R. neomexicana.
In 1895 Prof. Wooton collected a rose on Wliite Mountain, New Mexico, with corymbose flowers and very long and narrow leaflets having very long sharp teeth.
The stem is dark, with rather numerous light ochraceous slightly curved prickles.
This is much like an Illinois specimen of R. hlanda, and requires further investigation.
1904.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
119 January 19.
The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-two persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that the following.
papers had been received for publication: — "Observations on Tupaia, with Reflections upon the Origin of Primates," by Henry C. Chapman.
(January 5.)
"New Japanese Marine Mollusca," by Henry A. Pilsbry.
(Jan.
9.)
"The Arachnida of Florida," by Nathan Banks.
(January 12.)
" Sabellidse and Sorpulidse from Japan," by J. Percy Moore.
(January 18.)
" New Japanese Marine Mollusca : Pelecypoda," by Henry A. Pilsbry.
(January 18.)
A paper entitled "A Collection of Fishes from Sumatra," by Henry W. FoAvler, had been accepted for publication in the Journal and would conclude the twelfth volume.
Note on the Characinidce.—MR.
Henry W. Fowler desired to place on record the following : EucYNOPOTAMUs uom.
nov. Evermannella Eigenmann, Smithsn.
Miscel.
Coll., XTA', December 9, 1903, p. 146 (biserialis).
Mr. Fowler was indebted to Mr. E. L. Goldsborough, of the United States Fish Commission, for calling attention to the name Evermannella, which has recently been employed by Dr. Eigenmann for a genus of Characinidce.
The speaker had previously applied the name to the Odontostomida;} {Eu, properly; xuw^, dog; Ttozand^, river.)
The following were ordered to be printed : ' Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., LIII, 1901 (1901-2), p. 211.
THE ARACHNIDA OF FLORIDA.
BY XATHAX BANKS.
For about the past twelve years I have l^een receiving spiders from Florida, and now have accumulated a larger mumber of species than from any other State, except where collected for years by an arachnologist.
From time to time I have published descriptions of the new species, so that there are feAv new forms to record now.
However, it will be interesting to publish the entire list of Floridan spiders, as a means of comparing the fauna with that of other portions of the United States.
The list is, of course, incomplete, yet it is doubtless a fair representation of the arachnid fauna, since the materials have come from widely separated parts of the State.
NortliAvestern Florida is, however not represented.
Various writers have questioned the propriety of including subtropical Florida as a faunal part of the State.
Similar reasoning would throw out portions of many States; therefore I accept political boundaries.
The collections upon which this list is based were made by the following persons, at the places noted : Mrs. Annie T. Slosson: Punta Gorda, Palm Beach, Biscayne Bay, I.ake Worth.
Mr. Philip Laurent: j\Iiami, Jacksonville, Enterprise.
Mr. A. Dobbin: Altoona.
Prof. C. M. Weed: Citrus county.
Nathan Banks: Runnymede.
Others: a number of Chernetidce have been taken by Mr. H. G. Hubbard, and several others have sent me one or two species apiece.
In this list are enumerated 211 spiders and G8 other arachnids, a total of 279 species.
The spiders are arranged in 21 families, 7 of them being represented by but one species.
The Epeiridae stands highest in point of numbers, 45 species being included in it; the Theridiidse follow with 44 species, and the Attidse with 38 species.
The Lycosidce have but 19 species and the Thomisidse the same.
In many localities these families equal or surpass the Attidse in number.
The collection is more brightly colored than one from the Northern States, and contains manv more bizarre forms.
Of the arachnids other than spiders.
the mites have 35 species and the Pseudoscorpions 16 species; there are 6 daddy-long-legs.
The affinity of the fauna is with that of the general coast fauna of the Southern States; the southern tip shows relation to the Wee^t Indies.
Few species are abundant in specimens, but there are many genera represented.
The Pseudoscorpions are more abundant than anywhere else in our country.
All but about twenty species are in the writer's collections; these few exceptions being chiefly species recorded by Dr. Marx.
Of noteworthy mention, one ma}^ refer to three species for the first time recorded from our country: Theridium volatile Keys., previoush' knowTi from northern South America; Cupiemiius sallei Keys., known from IMexico and Central America, and Wala grenada Peck., recorded from several West Indian localities.
Several other spiders which have a tropical distribution have previously been recorded from southern Florida.
Characteristic ones are Wagneria tauricorms, Epeira spinigera, E. undecimtuherculata, Leucauge argyra, Hcteropoda venatoria and Opisthacanthus elatiis.
The occurrence of a Gamasid mite of the cosmotropical genus Megisthanus is also of much interest.
Other rare and curious forms are Gamasomorpha floridana, Didyna floridana, Kaira alba and Phidippus pidcherimmus.
Thirteen species are described as new — eight spiders, three mites and two scorpions.
In 1892-93 Dr. Einar Tonnberg visited Florida and made a small collection of spiders, chiefly from Orange county.
Dr. Albert Tullgren has reported on this collection, describing eleven species as new.
They are as follows : Aysha orlandensis = Anyphcena gracilis Hentz.
Lycosa angusta = Lycosa lenta Hentz.
Lycosa alhopuncta = Lycosa riparia Hentz.
Lycosa (Pirata) loennbergi=Sosippus floridanus Simon.
• Lycosa {Pirata) transversolineata — unknown to me.
Pardosa bilohata = Pardosa milvina Hentz.
Pardosa longispinata — unknown to me.
Oxyopes laminaius = Oxyopes scalaris Hentz.
Phidippus clarconensis — Phidippus insoleiis Hentz.
Phidippus oaklandensis = Phidippus cardinalis Hentz.
Phidippus bilincatus — unknown to me, but I think it can scarcely be new.
Order ARANEIDA.
FILISTATID^.
Filistata hibernalis Hentz.
A'arious specimens from Pimta Gorda, Jan.; Altoona, June; and Miami, April.
It is one of the most common species in buildings in the South.
CECOBIID^.
Thalamia parietalis Hentz.
A few specimens from Punta Gorda, Jan. Thalamia floridana Banks.
Two specimens from Lake Worth, the types, all that are known.
SOYTODID^.
Loxosceles rufescens Lucas.
Young specimens from houses at Runnymede.
OONOPID^.
Gamasomorpha floridana Banks.
Two specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr.
and April.
DYSDERID^.
Ariadne bicolor Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
PHOLCID^.
Pholcus phalangioides Fuess.
One 3^oung specimen from Lake Worth.
DRASSID^.
Micaria punctata Banks.
A specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr., and others from Lake Worth; it is the smallest of our species.
Micaria agilis Banks.
A few from Palm Beach, March.
Sergiolus variegata Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
Sergiolus cyaneoventris Simon.
Several examples from Runnymede, Biscayne Bay, April, and Enterprise, April (Laurent).
A male from Punta Gorda, Febr.
This is more slender than the female, but similar in appearance.
Cephalothorax bright yellowish-red; sternum pale yellowish, also legs, but darker on tarsi; a white band across base of abdomen, beyond shining brown till the middle wdiite band, then iridescent black or greenish to tip; venter bluish-black, pale at base; spinnerets black.
No spines under tibia I except at tip; one pair under metatarsus I; hind legs more numerously spined; mandibles small; sternum very long.
Gnaphosa sericata Koch.
Specimens from Biscayne Bay, and from Runny mede.
Silica bicolor Banks.
A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., and Biscayne Bay, March and April.
It looks much like the next species.
Callilepis imbecilla Keyserling.
From Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, April, and Palm Beach, ]\Iarch.
Prosthesima depressa Emerton.
One from Palm Beach.
Prosthesima ecclesiastica Hentz.
From Lake Worth, and Punta Gorda, April.
One specimen is suffused \viih reddish throughout.
Prostliesima floridana Banks.
One female from Punta Gorda, Febr., the type.
CLUBIONIDiE.
Clubiona tibialis Emerton.
One from Runnjmiede, Nov. CMracanthium inclusa Hentz.
Many specimens from Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Altoona, Jime; Enterprise, April (Laurent), and Miami, April.
Extremely common on herbage.
Chiracantbium albens Hentz.
One male of this rather rare species from Punta Gorda, April.
Anypbasna velox Becker.
Many examples from Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, Febr.
; Biscayne Bay, March and April; Palm Beach, March; Enterprise, April (Laurent); and Miami (Laurent).
It is abundant in south Florida, but much rarer north.
Anyphaena fallens Hentz.
From Punta Gorda, Jan. Anyphaena gracilis Hentz.
Immature example from Rimnymcde.
Anyphaena fragilis Banks.
Type specimen from Jacksonville, April (Laurent).
Anyphaena floridana Banks.
One from Lake Worth, the type.
Gayenna parvula Banks.
One female from Rmmymede, Xov.
; sweeping heritage.
Thargalia crocata Hentz.
From Punta Gorda, Febr.
; and Altoona, July.
This is the true T. crocata of Hentz, and is not his T. descriptus, a very different form.
Thargalia floridana Banks.
Cephalothorax brownish-red, femora and patellse similar, but a little paler, tibiae very pale, metatarsi and tarsi darker; sternum like cephalothorax; mandibles a darker brownish-red; coxse pale; abdomen brown above and below, sides almost black, without particular marks except some faint transverse lines near the tip, partly clothed with white hair.
Cephalothorax rather slender ; A.j\LE.
fully diameter apart, plainly closer to larger A.S.E., P.M.E.
one and one-half diameters apart, about diameter from equal P.S.E., quadrangle of M.E.
much higher than broad, and a little broader behind than in front, a long black bristle under each A.S.E., and one at outer corner.
Legs slender, one spine under middle of tibise I and II, two pairs under these metatarsi.
Abdomen scarcely longer than cephalothorax, truncate at base, broadest behind middle; spinnerets not very ])rominent.
Length 6 mm.
One specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr.
Thargalia longipalpis Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
AGALENID^.
Agalena naevia Hentz.
Common from Punta Gorda, April; Altoona, July; Citrus comity (Weed) ; and Jacksonville, April.
This spider is not nearly so abundant in Florida as it is in the North.
Tegenaria derhami Scopoli.
A feAv from Punta Gorda, March; probably introduced.
Hahnia sp.
One young specimen from Punta Gorda, April.
DICTYNID^.
Dictyna foliacea Hentz.
From Punta Gorda, April.
Species of this genus are not common in Florida.
Dictyna sublata Hentz.
From Punta Gorcla, April, and Palm Beach, March.
Dictyna floridana n. sp.
Cephalothorax and mandibles reddish ; legs, sternum and spinnerets j-ellowdsh ; abdomen gray, mottled with white.
Legs and l3ody evenly clothed with dark hairs.
Head in male elevated, the ]\I.E.
subeqiial, they form a quadrangle broader than high.
In the male there is a strong tooth-like process on the outer base of each mandible.
The male palpi are peculiar; the patella is large, swollen, globular; the palpal organ has a long slender process that, arising from the base, extends up one side, across the tip of palpus and down the other side, where its end is curved.
This process has a groove on outer side, in which rests the long style.
At the base on the outer side is a bifid black process, and two curved broad white hooks.
Elsewhere the species is of the usual structure.
Length 2.4 mm.
One pair from Lake Worth (Slosson).
Readily known from all other Dictynas by the globose patella of the male palpus.
ULOBORID^.
TJloborus plumipes Lucas.
Several from Lake Worth, Biscayne Ba}', !March and April.
Dinopsis spinosus Marx.
A few examples from Palm Beach.
]\Iarch, and ]\Iiami, April.
THBRIDIID^].
Theridium studiosum Hentz.
Quite common, from Runnymede, Xov.
; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Biscayne Bay, March and April; Levy county, April (Laurent), and Lake Worth.
The most common Thcridium in Florida.
Theridium volatile Keyserling.
A cou})le from Runnymede, Nov.
It was not jDreviously known from the United States; but these specimens agree with the description and figures of the South American form.
Theridium floridensis Banks.
Theridium Jura Keys.
nee.
Hentz.
From Runnymede, Nov.. and Lake Worth, Fel^r.
; not known outside of the State.
Theridium differens Emerton.
One specimen from Punta Gorda.
Theridium inornatum Banks.
One from Runnymede, Nov.; described from Louisiana.
Theridium globosum Hentz.
Several from Runnymede, Nov., and Pimta Gorda, March and April; some swept from herbage.
Theridium tepidariorum Koch.
In houses at Runnymede, Nov.
It has not been sent in by any of the collectors, so cannot be common.
Theridium pictipes Keyserling.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
Theridium amputatum Keyserling.
Described from the State.
Theridium punctosparsum Emerton.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from Florida.
Theridium immaculatum Emerton.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
Theridium sp.
A small male from Punta Gorda, Febr., of an unknown species.
Theridula sphaerula Hentz.
Several from Rmmymede, Nov. ; not as common as the next species.
Theridula quadripunctata Keyserling.
Several from Runnymede, Nov.; Jacksonville, April; and Enterprise, April.
Argyrodes globosum Keyserling.
One specimen from Pmita Gorda, Febr.
Argyrodes trigonum Hentz.
One from Runnymede, Nov.; swept from herbage.
Argyrodes nephilse Taczanowski.
Several from Runnymede, Nov., from their own webs on the porch of a house.
Argyrodes floridana Banks.
Two females from Punta Gorda, Febr.
Readily known by the pecuhar shape of the abdomen.
Eomphea fictilium Hentz.
One specimen from Runnymede, Nov.; swept from herbage.
Spintharus flavidus Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State.
Bellinda cancellata Keyserling.
Recorded from Florida bv Dr. Marx.
Gaucelmus augustinus Keyserling.
Described from the State.
Tllesanis americana Emerton.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from Florida.
Euryopis argentea Emerton.
Recorded b}^ Dr. Marx.
Mysmena bulbifera Banks.
From Runnymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March and April; and Lake Worth.
They make webs in low plants.
Mysmena quadrimaculata Banks.
Two specimens from Punt a Gorda, April.
Lathrodectus mactans Koch.
Common from Rmmymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan., April; Altoona, July; Palm Beach; Biscayne Bay, April; and Citrus county.
Abundant throughout the State.
Dipoena crassiventris Keyserling.
Two females from Punta Gorda, April.
Lithyphantes fulvus Keyserling.
Three specimens from Citrus county.
Lithyphantes 7-macuIatus Keyserling.
Several from Punta Gorda, Jan., Febr.
; Palm Beach; and Biscayne Bay, April.
A handsome and characteristic Floridan spider.
Asagena americana Emerton.
One male from Palm Beach, March.
Mimetus interfector Hentz.
A few examples from Runnymede ; and Altoona, July.
Histiagonia rostrata Emerton.
Several specimens from Punta Gorda, March and April; Palm Beach; and Biscayne Bay, April.
Ceratinella emertoni Cambridge.
A few examples from Punta Gorda, ^larch and April; Palm Beach; and Lake Worth.
Ceratinopsis similis Banks.
Described from Runnymede, Nov.. under fallen leaves.
Grammonota maculata Banks.
A few pairs from Runnymede, Nov.. among dead leaves.
Tmeticus tridentatus Emerton.
One male from Palm Beach.
LinypMa communis Hentz.
Recorded from the State by Dr. ]\Iarx.
Frontina cocoinea Hentz, Moderately common from Pmita Gorda, ]\Iarc]i and April; Palm Beach, April; and Enterprise, April.
Coleosoma floridana Banks.
Coteosoma blanda Keyserling nee.
Cambridge.
One male from Punta Gorda., April.
Chrysso albomaculata Cambridge.
Several specimens from Runnymede, Nov. ; and Lake Worth.
Bathyphantes micaria Emerton.
A few from Palm Beach, ]\Iarch.
Bathyphantes anglicanum Hentz.
Common from Rimnymede, Nov.; Pmita Gorda, Jan.. Feb.; Biscayne Bay, March and April ; and Palm Beach, April.
A characteristic Southern spider.
Bathyphantes floridana Banks.
A few from Runnymede, Nov.; and Punta Gorda, April; the former among dead leaves.
Bathyphantes sp.
One female of a l^rown, unmarked species from Enterprise, April 15.
EPEIRID^.
Gastercantha cancriformis Linn(« Quite common from Punta Gorda, Jan.; Altoona, June; Citrus county; and Miami, Febr.
Acrosoma rugosa Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. ^larx from Florida.
Acrosoma spinea Htntz.
A few from Palm Beach, ]\Iarch; and Punta Gorda, April.
Mahadeva verrucosa Hentz.
From Palm Beach, ]\Iarch.
Wagneria tauricornis Cambridge.
Two specimens from Miami.
Gea heptagon Hentz.
Several from Runn^miede; and Palm Beach, ]\Iareh.
• Plectana stellata Hentz.
Rather common from Runnymede; and Altoona, July.
Plectana venusta Banks.
A few examples from Piinta Gorda, Febr., April; and Biscayne Bay, ]\Iarch.
Epeira domiciliorum Hentz.
Quite common at Punta Gorda, ]\Iarch; and Altoona, June and July.
Epeira trivittata Keyserling.
Common from Punta Gorda, Jan., Febr.
; Miami, ]\Iarch; Biscayne Bay, April; Jacksonville, April (Laurent); and Enterprise, April.
Epeira strix Hentz.
A few specimens from Punta Goi'da, Jan., Febr.
Epeira labyrintliea Hentz.
Common from Runnymede; Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, Febr.
; and Altoona, July.
Epeira wittfeldae McCook.
Quite common at Runnymede; also at Biscayne Bay.
Epeira thaddeus Hentz.
Recorded from Florida by Dr. Marx.
Epeira pratensis Hentz.
A few specimens from Palm Beach, March; and Altoona.
Epeira balaustina McCook.
Several specimens from Pimta Gorda, Febr.
; Altoona; Biscayne Bay, April; Miami, March; and Enterprise, April.
Young specimens are often strikingly marked with yellow.
Epeira gigas Leach.
A few specimens from Altoona and Punta Gorda.
Epeira septima Hentz.
One from Punta Gorda, Febr.
; a species nearly related to E. gigas, but distinct by shape and sexual characters.
Epeira globosa Keyserling.
Quite common from Altoona, July; Biscayne Bay, March and April; and Miami, April.
Epeira floridensis n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale 3-ellowish, Avithout markings, mandibles and sternum same color, legs rather paler, faintly darker at tips of the tibise.
Abdomen covered with silvery irregular areas; two black dots, widely separated, on the posterior part ; between them sometimes two gray curved lines reaching toward the tip; sometimes the basal part of the abdomen is covered with a large reddish-brown mark, darker in middle, 9 more reddish on the humps, and enclosing behind two ol^long yeUow spots; venter silvery white.
Similar in shape to E. scutulata.
The humps are rather more prominent and sharp-pointed ; the legs long and slender; the epigynum shows a short median finger M'ith upcurved end, each side is a dark circular cavity.
Length 2.8 mm.
Three specimens from Miami, in March (Laurent); readily distinguished from E. scutulata by its much smaller size, as well as different markings.
Epeira fuscovittata Keyserling.
Cyclosa thorelli McCook.
Recorded by ]\IcCook from the State.
Epeira scutulata Hentz.
Several specimens from Punta Gorda, April.
Epeira juniperina Emeiton.
A number of examples from Altoona, iji July, peira spinigera Cambridge.
Two from Lake Wortli and Biscayne Bay; also recorded by McCook.
Epeira undecimtuberculata Keyserling.
One male from Punta Gorda, in April; this and the preceding species are representatives of the tropical fauna.
Kaira alba Hentz.
One from Runnymede, Nov. ; beaten from shrul^s Vixia infumata Hentz.
One male from Punta Gorda, ]^Iarch and April.
Eustala prompta Hentz.
A common species at Runnymede, Punta Gorda, Miami, Palm Beach, Altoona, Jacksonville and Enterprise.
Adults were taken in March, April, Jiuie and July.
It ^'aries extremely in markings, more so than in northern localities Acacesia foliata Hentz.
From Biscayne Bay, ^Lirch and Ai^ril ; and Miami, April.
Mangora placida Hentz.
A few specimens from Palm Beach; Enterprise, A])ril; and Miami, March.
Mangora gibberosa Hentz.
Recorded from the State by Dr. ^larx.
Singa maculata Emerton.
Recorded bv Dr. ]\larx from Florida.
Singa nigripes Keyserling.
Recorded by Dr. Marx.
Singa floridana Banks.
A few from Punta Gorda, April.
Singa modesta Banks.
A few specimens from Lake Worth, and Punta Gorda, April.
Singa pratensis Emerton.
A few examples from Palm Beach, April ; and Biscayne Bay, in March and April.
Cyclosa bifuroa McCook.
(Jne specimen from Citrus county (Weed).
Carepalexis tuberculata Keyserling.
One from Miami, Febr.
; recorded by Dr. Marx under the genus Cyrtofhora.
Argiope argentata Fabriclus.
A few specimens are from Altoona, July.
Argiope aurantia Lucas.
I have seen specimens at Runnymede, Nov. Argiope trifasciata Forsk.
Epeira fasciata Hentz.
Argiope transversa Emerton.
1 Several specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr.
; and Altoona, June and July.
Nephila plumipes Koch.
A few from Citrus county: and Punta Gorda, March; and Miami, Febr.
Leucauge hortorum Hentz.
Specimens from Punta Gorda; Jacksonville, April; and Enterprise, April.
Leucauge argyra Walckenaer.
•A few examples from Biscayne Bay, April.
It is a tropical species.
Both this and L. hortorum were formerly placed in Argyroepeira, but Mr. Cambridge has shown that this is the same as White's earlier genus, Leucauge.
Larinia directa Hentz.
Several from Rimnymede, Nov.; oblique webs in grass.
Theridiosoma argentea Keyserling.
One female from Runnymede, Nov. TETRAGNATHID^.
Tetragnatha grallator Hentz.
Several from Punta Gorda, in Jan.; Jacksonville, April; and Enterprise, April.
Tetragnatha laboriosa Henta.
Common, Punta Gorda; Lake Worth; and Enterprise, April (Laurent).
Tetragnatha banksi McCook.
A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov. ; swept from herbage.
Eugnatha pallida Banks.
A few examples from Palm Beach, Runnymede Nov., and Enterprise, April.
Eucta caudata Emerton.
Not rare at Runnymede, Nov.; also from Punta Gorda, in Jan. and Febr.
; beaten from grass.
Pachygnatha sp.
Two young specimens from Punta Gorda, in April.
THOMISID^.
Xysticus cunotator Thorell.
A few specimens from Runnymede.
Xysticus floridanus Banks.
One pair from Punta Gorda, ]\Iarch and April.
Coriarachne versicolor Keyserling.
From Runnymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March, April; and Punta Gorda, April.
Coriarachne floridana Banks.
Only the type from Punta Gorda, Febr.
Oxyptila floridensis Banks.
One specimen from Punta Gorda, March.
Synaema bicolor Keysserling.
Recorded from the State by Dr. Marx.
Runcinia aleatoria Hentz.
A few from Altoona, July, and Jacksonville, April.
Misumena spinosa Keyserling.
Several specimens from Runnymede and Punta Gorda, April Misumena rosea Keyserling.
Very common, from Runnymede; Altoona, July; Punta Gorda; Palm Beach; Biscayne Bay, April; and Enterprise, April.
Misumena oblonga Keyserling.
A few specimens from Piinta Gorda, Jan. Misumena bellula Banks.
A few examples from Punt a Gorda, Fcbr., April.
Misumena viridans Banks.
A few specimens from Punta Gorda, April.
Tibellus duttoni Hentz.
A few from Runnymede and Enterprise.
Tmarus floridensis Keyserling.
Not rare at Runnymede, in long moss; also Enterprise and Miami, April.
Tmarus caudatus Hentz.
A few specimens from Palm Beach, March.
Tmarus grissus Keyserling.
Recorded by Keyserling from the State.
Philodromus vulgaris Hentz.
Not rare, from Rmmymede; and Altoona, July.
Philodromus ornatus Banks.
Several from Punta Gorda, Feb., April; and Enterprise, April.
Philodromus floridensis n. sp.
Head pale grayish, behind with a white V-mark; sides of cephalothorax broadly dark brown, leaving a large median pale area; legs brownish-yellow; darker at tips of femora, and near middle of femora II and III; sternum white; abdomen pale brownish-yellow with a dark brown spear-mark in middle of anterior part, margined on its posterior sides by a narrow white line, and posterior part of abdomen covered by a large dark brown spot with oblique anterior margins and containing two rows of indistinct pale dots each side ; venter pale, with three pale brown stripes.
Second pair of legs plainly longer than the first.
Tibia I with two pairs of spines below, metatarsus I also with two pairs.
P.S.E.
larger than the others, which are subequal; A.M.E. four diameters apart, two diameters from A.S.E., latter two diameters from P.M.E., and these three diameters from the P.S.E.
Cephalothorax broad and flat; abdomen truncate at base, broadest behind the middle.
Length 4 mm.
One female from Lake Worth.
SPARASSID^.
Selenops aissa Walckenaer.
Recorded by Dr. Marx from southern Florida.
Heteropoda venatoria Linn^.
Taken at Runnymede; Jacksonville; Altoona, June, and Miami.
LYCOSID^.
Lycosa carolinensis Walckenaer.
L. carolinensis Hentz.
One specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr.
Lycosa helluo Walckenaer.
L. babingtoni Blackwall.
A few from Punta Gorda, April; they do not differ from northern specimens.
Lycosa riparia Hentz.
Common from Pimta Gorda, April; Palm Beach; and Enterprise, April (Laurent).
Lycosa lenta Hentz.
Several specimens from Altoona, July; and Runnymede.
Nov.; L. ruricola Hentz is, I think, the male of L. lenta.
Lycosa floridana Banks.
A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., the types.
Lycosa erratica Hentz.
Taken at Enterprise, April (Laurent).
Lycosa posticata n. sp.
Cephalothorax red-brown; a narrow median pale stripe from eyes to tip, and a pale stripe on each side ; a pale spot each side of clypeus ; mandibles dark red-brown ; leg IV wholly pale yellow ; other legs heavily mottled with brown; the femora beneath almost wholly dark, above with two pale bands; patella pale, -v^dth a middle dark band; tibia dark, with pale band at base and one on middle ; metatarsi dark, tarsi pale.
Stenurm rather reddish, uniform, Coxse and maxillae yellowish.
Abdomen black, with a pale stripe each side on base reaching halfway back, and thence broken into spots.
Venter gray.
Length 10 mm.
Two specimens from Miami (Laurent).
Readily distinguished from all other Lycosas known to me by the pale hind legs, in contrast with the darker other pairs.
Lycosa punctulata Hentz.
Several from Punta Gorda, April.
Lycosa rabida Walckenaer.
L. scutulata Hentz.
Many specimens from Altoona, in June.
Lycosa hentzi n. sp.
Cephalothorax pale brownish-yellow; eyes on black band; a brown stripe extending back from each posterior eye, its upper edge definite, its lower edge fading off into the paler sides, between these is a brighter yellow streak, extending forward between the eyes, but much narrower.
]\Iandibles scarcety darker than cephalothorax; sternum pale; abdomen pale, the upper sides streaked and spotted with brown, indicating toward middle two brown streaks, leaving a broader yellowish median stripe, sometimes broken up behind by brown chevi'ons; venter pale, unmarked; legs pale, the tarsi more red-brown.
First eye-row practically straight, as long as second row, its eyes subequal ; second and third rows about equal in size, and the third row scarcely broader than the second.
Head rather high, and square in front; abdomen rather longer than usual, tapering behind.
Legs quite slender; three pairs of spines under tibia?
I and II, two pairs under these metatarsi; metatarsi and tarsi weakly scopulate.
Tarsus I of male not curved.
Length 12 mm.
Several specimens from Altoona, July; also from Covington, Louisiana.
It looks like L. rabida, except for pale median stripe on abdomen, and pale anterior legs of male.
Trochosa cinerea Fabricius.
A few from Lake Worth, Palm Beach, March, and Altoona, July.
Trochosa floridana Banks.
Several from Punt a Gorda, April; and Palm Beach, ^larch.
Sosippus floridanus Simon.
Not rare at Runnymede; and Altoona, July.
AUocosa funerea Hentz.
Not rare, Punta Gorda, March; Biscayne Bay, March; and Palm Beach, !March.
Fardosa milvina Hentz.
Quite common, Punta Gorda, April; Runnymede, Nov. Pardosa saxatilis Hentz.
One specimen from Lake Worth, Febr.
Pardosa venustulata Hentz.
One from Biscayne Bay, April.
Pardosa minima Keyserling.
One male from Lake Worth.
Febr., agrees with northern examples.
Pardosa floridana n. sp.
Cephalothorax ^'•ellowish, head black, a broad brown stripe from each posterior eye to the hind margin, and the lateral margins narrowly brown.
The pale median area is l^roadest in front, and there indents the black head with a narrow projection each side.
Abdomen black, with numerous small white dots; a basal spear-mark, and four pairs of geminate patches follow the spear-mark, each is separated by a narrow transverse line; venter yellow, with a few black spots in three lines; sternum yellow, with a median black stripe forked on anterior half, and three black dots each side; coxib yellow, with black marks above; clypeus yellow, with two black spots; mandibles yellowish, with a black line in front.
Legs yellow, more reddish toward tip, faintly marked with black on femora and base, middle and tip of tibia and metatarsus.
Length 6 mm.
One female from Enterprise, April 22.
A paler specimen, with legs scarcely marked, but with a dark sternum, comes from Punta Gorda, Febr.
PISAURID^ Bolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz.
One specimen from Lake Worth.
Dolomedes albineus Hentz.
One female from Altoona, July.
It is easily recognized l)y the j^ellow ventral stripe.
The head is much elevated in this species.
I have a spider from Punta Gorda which agrees with Micromata pinicola Hentz; it is immature, and, I think, the young of D. albineus.
Pisaurina undata Hentz.
Several sjjecimens from Punta Gorda.
April.
Maypacius floridanus Simon.
Described from the State; I have not seen it.
Thanatidius dubius Hentz.
A young specimen from Punta Gorda, April; it is adult in late summer.
CTENID^.
Cupiennius Sallei Keyserling.
One specimen from Lake Worth.
This is the first time this Mexican spider hasbeen recorded from the United States.
OXYOPID^.
Peucetia viridans Hentz.
Common, Rmmymede; Jacksonville; Biscayne Ba}', April; and Altoona, Jmie and July.
Usually on large shrubs.
Oxyopes salticus Hentz.
A few from Jacksonville, April, and Enterprise, April.
Oxyopes scalaris Hentz.
Several from Punta Gorda, April, and Altoona, July.
Hamalatiwa grisea Keyserling.
Taken at Jacksonville, April; Altoona, Jime and July; Enterprise, April; and Runny mede.
Phidippus cardinalis Hentz.
Several from Biscayne Bay, in ]\Iarch, and Punta Gorda and Enterprise, A])ril.
Phidippus variegatus Lucas.
Phidippus otiosus Hentz.
Two specimens from Levy county, April (Ijaurent).
Phidippus rufus Hentz.
From Runnymede, Nov., and Punta Gorda, Febr., April.
Phidippus pulcherrimus Keyserling.
One female from Biscayne Bay, in March.
I have not seen it before, and evidently is quite rare.
Phidippus miniatus Peckham.
Many specimens from l^unta Gorda, Jan. ; Citrus county (Weed) ; Jacksonville, May; Enterprise, April; and Levy county, April (Laurent).
Phidippus audax Hentz.
Attus tripunctalus Hentz.
A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov., and IMiami, April.
Phidippus insolens Hentz.
Recorded by Dr. Marx in his Catalogue as from the State.
Philaeus militaris Hentz.
A few from Palm Beach, March.
Philaeus rimator Walckenaer.
Recorded from Florida b}" Prof. Peckham.
Dendryphantes octavus Hentz.
Common from Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Jacksonville, April; Fernandina, April (Laurent), and Enterprise, April.
Dendryphantes floridanus n. sp.
Cephalothorax reddish; eyes on black spots; mandibles reddishbrown; sternum pale 3^ellowish; legs similar, first pair rather more reddish-brown, the patella and tibia tipped with a dark spot on inner side; abdomen pale yellowish, with some small scattered brown spots, behind with a larger brown spot, pointed in front (sometimes blunt), indented each side, and with a brown patch each side in front of it.
This spot is sometimes broken up into smaller spots.
Venter pale, spinnerets a little darker.
Male is similar, but more reddish-brown.
Tibise I and II have three pairs of spines beneath, two pairs under these metatarsi; hind tibise with many spines, especially at tip.
Tibia of male palpus has a short tooth on outer side at tip.
Similar in structure to Z).
octavus Hentz.
Length , 9 , 7 to 8 mm.
; c?, 5 mm.
Several examples from Altoona, July.
Thiodina retarius Hentz.
Many specimens from Punta Gorda, April; Biscayne Bay, April; Enterprise, April; ]\Iiami, April, and Lake Worth, Febr.
A very common species in the South.
Plexippus paykuUi Aud.
and Sav.
Specimens from Punta Gorda, March and April; Palm Beach, March ; Biscayne Bay, April; Runnymede, Nov.; .Altoona, May and June; Miami, April.
A very common spider in Florida.
Tapinattus melanognathus Lucas.
A pair from Rmmymede, Nov., and others from Ft.
Drum.
Wala palmar um Hentz.
Specimens from Pimta Gorda, Palm Beach, Biscayne Bay and Enterprise, in Jan. and April.
Wala grenada Peckliam.
A few specimens from ]\Iiami, April.
Not before recorded from the United States.
Wala mitratus Hentz.
A few examples from Palm Beach, March; and Biscayne Bay.
]\Iarch.
Icius wickhami Peckham.
Icius fioridana Banks.
A few from Palm Beach, ]\larch; and Punta Gorda.
April.
Icius pleuralis Banks.
One female from Punta Gorda, April.
Icius elegans Hentz.
Two from Punta Gorda, in Jan. Fuentes lineata Koch.
One from Rimnymede, Nov. Marpissa undata De Geer.
Attus familiaris Hentz.
From Citrus county (Weed); and Punta Gorda, Jan., April.
Hyctia pikei Peckham.
From Runn3aTiede, Nov.; Palm Beach, March; and Lake Worth, Febr.
Occurs on marsh grass.
Maevia vittata Hentz.
Several examples from Runnymede, Nov., and Enterprise, Aj^iil (Laurent).
Metacyrba taeniola Hentz.
Rather common; Rmmymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March; Punta Gorda, Febr.
; and Lake Worth.
Prostheclina aurata Hentz.
Not uncommon; Punta Gorda, April; and Biscayne Bay, April.
Pellenes cristatum Hentz.
From Punta Gorda, a few specimens, Pellenes peregrinum Peckham.
One male from Punta Gorda, April.
Pellenes viridipes Hentz.
A few examples from Palm Beach, in March, and Biscayne Bay « Pellenes brunneus Peck.
Described from Florida.
Habrocestum pulex Hentz.
A few from Punta Gorda, in Febr.
Zygoballus sexpunctatus Hentz.
Several from Runnymede, Nov.; Palm Beach, April; Punta Gorda, April, and Jacksonville, April.
Zygoballus parvus Hentz.
A few from Biscayne Bay, March.
Zygoballus bettina Peckham.
One from Enterprise, April.
Homalattus cyaneus Hentz.
A few from Palm Beach, March and April.
Salticus albocinctus Koch.
From Biscayne Bay, March; and Punta Gorda, April.
Synemosyna formica Hentz.
Ono from Runny mede, Nov. Lyssomanes viridis Hentz.
From Runn3-mede; Punta Gorda, April; Palm Beach, March; Biscayne Bay, AjDril; and Altoona, Jnh'.
Not uncommon sweeping.
Order PHALANGIDA.
Mesosoma niger Say.
Common at Punta Gorda, in Feb., March and April.
Liobunum vittatum Say.
From Punta Gorda, Febr.
and April; Palm] Beach, April; and Biscayne Bay, April.
Liobunum bicolor Wood.
A few from Rimnymcde, Nov., and Punta Gorda, Febr.
Liobunum formosum Wood.
A few from Punta Gorda, April.
Cynorta ornata Say.
Common; Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Biscayne Bay, March; and Lake Worth.
Scotolemon spinigera Pack.
A couple of specimens from Biscayne Bay.
Order PSEUDOSCORPIONiri,\.
Chelifer floridanus Banks.
One specimen from Biscayne Bay (E. A. Schwarz).
Chelifer biseriatum Banks.
Many specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr.
; and from Lake Poinsett (Hubbard).
Chelifer muricatus Say.
A'^arious examples from Punta Gorda, Jan.; also St. Lucie and Sand Point (Hubbard), and Citrus county (Weed).
Chelanops oblongus Say Many specimens from Lake Worth; Biscayne Bay, March; and Punta Gorda, Febr., March and April.
Chelanops latus Banks.
A few from Runnymede, Nov. ; and Lake Worth.
Chelanops floridse Balzan.
A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., IMarch and April; and Biscayne Bay, April.
Chelanops dentatus Banks.
One specimen from Florida, without more definite locality (Hubbard).
Chelanops latimanus Banks.
One specimen from Punta'Gorda.
Chelanops affinis Banks.
The type is from Crescent City, from a burrow of the gopher (Hubbard).
Chelanops tumidus Banks.
Several specimens from under logs on the sea beach at Indian River Inlet, April (Hubbard).
Garypus floridensis!Banks.
Collected under driftw^ood on ocean beach near St. Lucie river, April, by the late H. G. Hubbard; Miami, March (Laurent).
Obisium parvulum Banks.
One specimen from Florida, without more definite locality (Hubbard).
Atemnus elongatus Banks.
A .
floridanus Tullgren.
Specimens from Lake Worth; Biscayne Bay, April; Punta Gorda, Febr.
and April.
Mr. Hubbard took it at St. Lucie river.
Sand Point and Enterprise.
Olpium obscurum Banks.
One from Runnymede, one from Punta Gorda and several from Palm Beach, April.
Chthonius pennsylvanicus Hagen.
A few^ specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr.
; one from Lake Poinsett (Hubbard).
Chthonius spinosus Banks.
Several from Citrus county.
(Weed).
Order SCORPIONIDA.
Centrums gracilis Gervais From Citrus county (Weed) ; Miami.
April ; and Punta Gorda.
Fairly common.
Centrurus carolinianus Beauvois.
From Citrus county (Weed) and Miami, March.
The most common scorpion in the State.
Centrurus hentzi n. sp.
This is similar in most points to the preceding species, and may be but a variety of it, yet as the color differences are so constant I give it a separate name.
The legs are marm orate with blackish; on the pedipalpi the tip of femur is blackish, the apical half of the tibia is marked with black, and also the outer side of the hand.
The tail is marked with black below, leaving elongate pale spots, the basal joint only slightly marked.
The stripes on the dorsum are very broad, leaving only a narrow white line between them.
There is no median pale spot on anterior margin, which is seen in C. carolinianus.
Specimens from Runnymede, Oct., and Fort Reed.
Centrurus margaritatus Gervais.
From Biscayue Bay, several specimens, mostly immature.
Isometrus maculatus De Geer.
Dr. Marx had this species from Key West.
Tityus floridanus n. sp.
Dark red-brown; cephalothorax strongly granulate in fj-ont; an interrupted median ridge on the abdomen, and each segment with a curved middle row of granules each side, and the posterior margin granulate.
Last segment of abdomen with the submedian ridges reaching nearly to base, the side ridges not half so far; below with four ridges, the side ones the longer.
Tail with ten ridges on the first segment, eight on two, three and four ; fifth segment with a median ridge below, as also on the last; a few lateral granules on these segments.
Sting long and curved, the tooth beneath acute, but short.
Pedipalpi long and slender; the femur subparallel, angular, with six ridges, a median one on inner side; tibia with two submedian ridges on inner side, a basal granule larger than others; tibia but slightly swollen.
Hand swollen on base inside, not plainly angulate ; the fingers longer than the hand.
Length 70 mm.
One male specimen from Key West.
It has much resemblance to Centrurus gracilis, but the palpi are more slender and the segments of the tail are heavier.
Diplocentrus lesueurii Gervais.
(Jne from Key West; the type was probably from Florida.
Opisthacanthus elatus Gervais.
Dr. Marx distributed specimens as coming from Southern Florida.
Order PHRYNIDA.
Admetus fuscimanus Koch.
From Runnymede, Nov.; and Punta Gorda, Febr.
and April.
Order THELYPHONIDA.
Mastigoproctus giganteus Lucas.
From Runnymede, Punta Gorda, Jan.; and Altoona, July.
Order SOLPUGIDA.
Ammotrecha cubae Lucas.
Specimens from "southern Florida/' without further locality.
Order ACARINA.
TROMBIDIDiE.
Trombidium sericeum Say.
A few from Punta Gorda, in April.
Ottonia trombidioides Banks.
Several from Punta Gorda, April.
Ottonia granulosa Banks.
Several from Pvuita Gorda, April.
RHYNOHOLOPHID^.
Rhyncholoplius maculatus Banks.
Several from Punta Gorda, Febr., April; Palm Beach.
Rhyncholophus longipes Banks.
From Palm Beach, March.
Rhyncholopbus floridanus Banks.
Specimens from Punta Gorda, April.
Rhyncholophus simplex Banks.
Several from Punta Gorda, April; and Palm Beach, April.
Rhyncholophus punctatus n. sp.
Dull bluish gray, with a number of scattered small black spots above ; legs paler.
Body sparsely clothed with short erect hair, all of one kind.
Body elliptical, rather broader before third legs.
Palpi short femora slightly swollen, penultimate joint ends in a single claw; the thumb but little swollen, and projecting beyond the claw, clotlied with short hair.
Legs slender, with short erect hair; leg I nearly as long as body, last joint swollen, two-thirds as long as penultimate joint: leg IV about as long as leg I, but the tarsus is not so much swollen and is barely more than one-half as long as penultimate joint.
Length 1 mm.
Several specimens from Palm Beach, in Aiiril.
Smaris australis Banks.
One from Punta Gorda, April, the type.
ER YTHR^ID^ .
Actineda agilis Banks.
From Punta Gorda, in March and April.
Erythraeus sp.
One specimen from Palm Beach of an unknown species.
BDELLID^.
Bdella cardinalis Banks.
Several from Punta Gorda, Febr., April; and Palm Beach, March.
EUPODID^.
Tydeus gloveri Ashmead.
Not luicommon on oranges; it preys on the scale insects, but is not sufficiently numerous to do any great good.
TETRANYOHID^.
Tetranychus mytilaspidis Riley.
This bristly species occurs throughout the State on orange leaves.
Tetranychus sexmaculatus Riley.
This species is also common in Florida on oranges.
Tetranychus tumidus Banks.
Taken at Eustis, on the leaves of the water-hyacinth (AVebber).
Tetranychus bimaculatus Harvey.
Specimens from Punta Gorda, Key Largo and Eustis, on egg-plant and watermelon.
Stigmaeus floridanus Banks.
Described from Florida, living in colonies upon the imbricated leaves of the pineapple.
IXODID^.
BoopMlus annulatus Say.
The Texas cattle tick has been recorded from Florida.
Ixodes scapularis Say.
A few from Lake Worth; Palm Beach, March; Punta Tiorda, April; and Enterprise, April.
Dermacentor americanus Linn.
One from Miami, ALarch (Laurent).
Amblyomma tuberculata Marx.
Described from Florida, as parasitic on the ''gopher."
I have several specimens from Enterprise.
GAMASID^.
Macrocheles sp.
Two specimens of a large dark species from Pimta Gorda, April.
Gamasus sp.
Various specimens of a species much like G. coleoptratus, and possibly identical, from Punta Gorda.
Lselaps sp.
A few specimens from Biscayne Bay, April.
Uropoda sp.
Specimens from Punta Gorda, April, and Biscayne Bay; probably representing more than one species.
Megisthanus floridauus n. sp.
Reddish-brown.
Body egg-shaped; above smooth and shining, a few short hairs in front, and four longer ones on the anterior margin.
Mandibles large, acute at tip.
Leg I slender, about as long as wddth of body, with many short hairs ; legs II and III short and stout, the femur tuberculate on one edge, each tubercle tipped by a stout bristle, long hairs near tip of tibia III, leg IV heavy, but longer than others, femora in front tuberculate and with bristles, behind with three rather blunt teeth, long hairs near tip of tibia; all legs, except I, end in a sucker, but apparently without claws.
Length 2.8 mm.
One specimen from Enterprise.
This is the first record of this cosmotropical genus in the United States.
It is a remarkable geiuis, readily known by the small size of the claws, the teeth on hind femora, and position of male genital orifice.
ORIBATID^.
Galumna emarginata Banks.
Appears to be conmion at Punta Gorda, April, and Lake AVorth.
Eremaeus floridanus n. sp.
Pale yellowish-brown; al^domen smooth, polished, venter the same.
Abdomen but little longer than broad, moderately high, no suture between it and so-called tectal plate; inferior and superior bristles very long and straight; set® of moderate length, clavate; legs not very long, with many short hairs, all inserted on sides of body; coxal plate of two anterior pairs shows a line each side not reaching the middle, suture between third and fourth coxae not reaching the middle ; genital opening small, fully twice its diameter in front of the nuich larger anal 10 opening.
In general appearance it looks like Galmnno.
affitiis, but there is no trace of wings.
Length .6 mm.
One specimen from Punta Gorda, April.
I use the genus Ercmccus for Oppia and Orihatnla of Berlese.
Liacarus concolor Banks.
Several specimens from Punta Gorda, April, This species has about 20 or 24 short hairs on dorsum of abdomen, arranged in about 4 longitudinal rows.
There is a short oblique ridge above the posterior cox£e extending up to cephalothorax.
Oribata floridana Banks.
A few specimens, the types, from Punta Gorda; it was described under the genus Bclha.
The type of this genus is miknown, but it must be very similar to the type of Damceus, which is congeneric with the type of Oribata.
In place of the Oribota of authors I use the next name, Galumna.
Notaspis, by the process of elimination, rests upon that genus for which Oudemans has proposed the name of Kochia.
I deplore greatly the transference of the name Oribata, but it is a perfectlj^ plain case; and since several European authors have adopted it, I accept it for the sake of uniformity.
Neoliodes concentricus Say.
'• A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov., and Enterprise.
Neoliodes floridensis Banks.
A number of examples from Palm Beach, and Lake Worth, in March.
TYROGLYPHID^.
Tyroglyphus sp.
I have seen a species taken by Hubbard among scale insects on the orange trees.
It is, I think, undescribed.
ERIOPHYIDiE.
Iriophyes oleiovorus Ashmead.
The rust mite of the orange occurs commonly in most sections of Elorida.
Explanation of Plates VII and VIII.
Plate VII, Fig.
1.
— Pardosa flor'idanus, epigynum.
Fig.
2.
— Dendryphantes floridensis, palpus.
Fig.
3.
— Sergiolus cyaniventris, palpus.
Fig.
4.
— Sergiolus cyaniventris, palpus.
Fig.
5.
— Epeira floridensis, epigynum.
Fig.
6.
— Dendryphantes floridensis, epigynum.
Fig.
7.
— Tityus floridanus, peclipalp.
Fig.
8.
— Tityus floridanus, sting.
Fig.
9.
— Philodromus floridensis, epigynum.
Fig.
10.
— Dictyna floridana, palpus and epigynum.
Fig.
11.
— Thargalia floridana, epigynum.
Fig.
12.
— Mysmena bulbifera, palpus.
Fig.
13.
— Mysmena bulbifera, palpus.
Plate VIII, Fig.
14.
— Sergiolus cyaniventris.
Fig.
15.
— Pardosa floridanus.
Fig.
16.
— Lycosa hentzi, palpus.
Fig.
17.
— Lycosa hentzi, epigynum.
Fig.
18.
— Eremceus floridanus.
Fig.
19.
— Anyphcena velox, palpus.
Fig.
20.
— Megisthanus floridanus.
Fig.
21.
— Pliilodroinus floridensis.
