NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX, WITH A CATALOGUE OF THE SPECIES.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The present study is based chiefly upon material collected by Messrs. Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels in Utah and southern Idaho.
1 Its object is to determine the characters of the reproductive organs and teeth of the species of this area, both as an aid in the discrimination of the species, and to afford a basis for comparison in further work on the genus.
The new catalogue of the species and minor forms of Oreohelix appended, embodies the results of study in the museum and field from time to time during the past ten or fifteen years.
2 The genus Oreohelix is one of the most difficult groups of land snails within our boundaries by reason of the multiplicity of forms, and the strange parallelism of shell characters sometimes existing between species or races not directly related.
This has led to erroneous identifications, with consequent errors in the data of geographic distribution.
The shell seems to be especially plastic ; not only are there many local races of various grades of differentiation, but in any colony of some of the species one finds a wide range of variation in the features usually depended on for specific discrimination, such as absolute size, height of the spire, width of the umbilicus relative to the diameter, and development of the sculpture.
Sometimes colored and white individuals exist in the same colony.
If the banded pattern is primitive in the strigosa and cooperi groups, as seems highly probable, then it appears that bandless or white mutations have arisen independently in many colonies, where they sometimes exist with the earlier pattern, apparently in hybrid populations.
Eighty-six names have been proposed for forms of all grades; many of these are quite insufficiently defined, and no doubt part 1 For data relating to the localities and shells collected reference must be made to their paper "Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho."
A few species collected by Mr. jas.
H. Ferriss and the author are also considered.
2 The writer has personally collected ten of the twenty-four species known.
All of the species and subspecies are contained in the collection of the Academy except the following: 0. bruneri Ancey, 0. cooperi stantoni Dall, and 0. strigosa imilaris Dawson.
of them are superfluous, either because they are synonymous with other nanus, or because they denote variations not of racial value.
In many cases, further collections are requisite, as the small, assorted series of the earlier collectors give no adequate idea of the association of forms in the colonies.
Moreover, the location of colonies has often been carelessly recorded, entailing much strenuous field work on the investigator of to-day, work which could have been saved by carefully noting the locations of type localities.
Distribution of Oreohelix.
The genus is almost confined to the western mountain region of the United States, but there is one species in southern Assiniboia and one near the southern boundary of Alberta.
Formerly one species extended eastward to eastern Iowa.
Southward the genus practically reaches the Mexican boundary, in the Big Hachet mountains of Xew Mexico and the Huachucas of Arizona; and it will probably be found below the boundary.
An outlying species on Catalina Island, California, is widely remote from its kindred, among alien associates.
A northern and a southern area of speciation may be distinguished.
The southern group occupies the southern half of New Mexico, Arizona south of the Colorado River, and Catalina Island, California.
It comprises all of the recent species of the subgenus Radiocentrum, and the species of Oreohelix proper which have swollen penes.
Species as follows: 0. concentrata.
(Radiocentrum.)
0. metcalfei.
0. avalo?iensis.
0. pilsbryi.
0. chiricahuana.
0. yavapai.
0. clap pi.
0. barbata.
0. ferrissi.
0. socori'oejisis.
0. hachetana.
0. cooperi.
Several of these species have one or more subspecies.
0. cooperi occurs only at considerable elevations, and in forms differing somewhat from northern specimens.
0. yavapai has been found also in northwestern Wyoming.
It is one of the widely distributed species.
The other species are special to the southern area.
In the Florida and Dragoon mountains a few imperfect and very old specimens have been recorded doubtfully as 0. strigosa; but it seems more likely that they belong to the group with swollen penes, some of which resemble 0. strigosa.
The northern group occupies Arizona north of the Colorado and northern New Mexico, north to British America, and in its greatest amplitude from the Mississippi Eiver (pleistocene) to eastern Washington.
The most widely spread species is 0. cooperi, with 0. strigosa depressa next.
0. haydeni also is spread over a considerable though much smaller area.
Most of the other species and races are relatively local in distribution, and many are known from but one or a few contiguous colonies.
Oreohelix cooperi still occurs from the Black Hills to Montana and Idaho, and from Assiniboia to the southern third of New Mexico and Arizona.
Its range was formerly wider, as it is not uncommon in the loess of eastern Iowa.
Its presence there indicates a drier and cooler summer climate than that of eastern Iowa to-day.
Where I have collected 0. cooperi in the mountain states it is a shell of the " aspen zone."
Oreohelix is rarely if ever found in abundance except where the country rock is limestone.
Some species, in areas largely blanketed by later igneous rock, seem to be wholly restricted to the limestone outcrops.
They live on the surface, in dry weather finding refuge under superficial stones, leaves or sticks.
Except 0. barbdta in the Chiricahua mountains, I do not remember ever finding Oreohelix below the surface layer of stones or rocks.
Reproductive Organs of Oreohelix.
The genitalia have a general resemblance to the same organs in Ashmunella and Sonorella, but there are some differences.
There is never a flagellum, though the epiphallus is well developed.
The penis-papilla is obsolete or wanting.
The penis consists of a lower segment which is longitudinally ribbed within, and an upper segment with thinner walls which are densely papillose within, and enclose a larger cavity.
The internally ribbed part is very short in Radiocentrum, but from about a third to over half the total length in Oreohelix proper.
The distal end is truncate or quite shortly bicornute.
In the figures, the organs are shown in nearly their natural positions, except that in some cases the folds of the penis are slightly opened out, to bring the epiphallus into full view.
The specific characters are largely a matter of measurements of the epiphallus and penis and its parts.
These measurements are taken with dividers after pulling the organs straight, but without stretching.
Thus PI.
20, fig.
la, and PI.
22, fig.
la show the penes of two species pinned out for measuring, after drawing figures in the natural positions.
All figures were drawn with an Abbe camera lucida.
In these Proceedings for 1905, p. 271, a grouping of the species of Oreohelix according to the characters of the genitalia was tentatively advanced.
The examination of many more species and local races in the main confirms the arrangement then proposed.
By the genitalia the species group as follows.
1.
Epiphallus about as long as the penis, the retractor muscle inserted upon it; internally plicate part of the penis very short; animal oviparous, etc.
Subgenus Radiocentrum.
2.
Epiphallus much shorter than the penis, the retractor muscle inserted upon both at their junction (except in 0. barbatd); internally plicate part of the penis \ to over \ of its length; viviparous species.
Subgenus Oreohelix.
a. Penis long, the distal part about equal in diameter to the lower part, though usually collapsing on account of the thinner walls.
0. strigosa, peripherica, hendersoni, elrodi, haydeni and their varieties.
Also 0. cooperi, which is somewhat intermediate between groups a and b, being a generalized species in genitalia.
b. Penis short, the basal part decidedly more swollen than the distal, 0. yavapai, concentrica, metcalfei, pilsbryi, barbata, and their varieties.
The division of Oreohelix into "transversely ribbed," "smooth or striate," and "longitudinally ribbed" groups by Hemphill and Binney is a division of convenience in the identification of specimens, but it has no relation to the affinities of the species.
Teeth of Oreohelix.
In Oreohelix there are two types of teeth, as W. G. Binney first pointed out.
In one group the central and inner lateral teeth have no side-cusps or cutting points.
Here belong: 0. strigosa (Gld.).
Binnev, T. M. vol.
V, PI.
IV, fig.
h. 3 0. cooperi (W. G.
B.).
Binney, T. M. vol.
V, PI.
IV, fig.
g, and several examined by myself.
0. haydeni (Gabb).
Binney, T. M. vol.
V, PI.
XVI, fig.
b.
Also 0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata examined by myself.
0. peripherica (Anc).
Binney, T. M. vol.
V, PI.
XVI, fig.
a (var.
newcombi).
Also numerous radulse of several forms examined by me, from Henderson and Daniel's Stations 29, 30, 33, 36.
3 Just what race of strigosa Binney had remains in doubt.
In the same volume he described and figured the genitalia of a Salmon River strigosa, which would presumably be 0. s. jugalis, but perhaps O. s. subcarinata.
He gives the formula 50-1-50 for a transverse row of teeth.
As all the other species of Oreohelix examined by Binney and the writer have between 20-1-20 and 33-1-33 teeth, this count is remarkable, and if confirmed would certainly indicate a species distinct, from any other of which the dentition is known.
344 [May, 0. strigosa depressa (Ckll.).
Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905 PL XXII, figs.
1-3 (Pecos, N. M.); also from Colorado Springs, near McCammon, Idaho, and Ogden Canyon, Utah.
0. rugosa (Hemph.).
See fig.
la.
Formula 19, 13, 1, 13, 19.
0. metcalfei (Ckll.).
Formula 17, 11, 1, 11, 17.
0. concentrata (Dall).
Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, p. 276 (Form huachucana).
0. yavapai (Pils.).
Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, PI.
XXII, fig.
7.
Fig.
1.
— Central and two inner lateral teeth of (a) Oreohelix rugosa, and (b) 0. hendersoni.
In the second group the central and all lateral and marginal teeth have sicle-cusps.
Of this kind are : O. idahoensis (Newc).
Binney, T. M. vol.
V, PI.
IV, fig.
i.
0. hemphilli (Newc.).
4 Binney, T. M. vol.
V, PL IV, fig.
j.
0. barbata Pils., Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, PL XXII, fig.
6.
O. chiricahuana Pils., Pilsbrv, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, PL XXII, figs.
10, 11.
0. clappi Ferriss, Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila., 1905, PL XXII, fig.
4.
In O. clappi the cusps and cutting points on the central teeth are very small.
In O. hendersoni (fig.
16) they are small and partly united with the lateral cutting edges of the middle cusp.
This species is transitional to the form of teeth found in O. cooperi, O. haydeni and others.
There is therefore no hard and fast line of demarcation between the two groups, although nearly all of the species examined are seen at once to belong to one or the other, and the form of the teeth is therefore a useful specific character.
Nearly all of the radulse examined have 29 to 33 teeth on each side of the central tooth.
A few have not so many, 0. yavapai having 26, O. barbata 23, and 0. hemphilli, according to Binney, 20.
4 Binney reported O. hemphilli from "Manitou, Williams Canyon, Colorado."
The shell from this place needs comparison with the type of hemphilli.
Whether his figure of the teeth was from the Nevada or the Colorado form is not known.
Fig.
157, Man.
Amer.
Land Shells, p. 168, is not very characteristic, and if hemphilli, it is an immature individual.
The tvpe of O. hemphilli is No.
23,060 A. N. S. P. The count of teeth is rather small for a Helicid genus.
Mr. Binney's count for "0. strigosa," 50-1-50, is so detached from other known species that it needs confirmation.
Oreohelix strigosa (Gld.).
The anatomy of typical 0. strigosa is unknown, since we have yet to rediscover the typical form.
Hemphill's var.
parma from Spokane Falls is near the original strigosa, but it is larger and more solid.
Further west, at Blue Lake in the Grand Coulee, there is a small, thin race, closely resembling jugalis Hemph.
Nothing is known of the soft anatomy of any of the subspecies or races of Washington, central and "northern Idaho and Montana.
Oreohelix strigosa depressa (CklU.
PI.
19, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4, 0, 7; pi.
120, fig.
8.
(a) Specimens from Manitou Canyon, near Colorado Springs, are taken to be typical depressa (fig.
1).
The penis is long, from over three-fourths to more than the diameter of the shell, the internally costate portion is not swollen, and is less than half the entire length — usually about one-third.
It has 5 or 6 ribs inside.
The distal portion collapses along three lines, so that its section is trefoil shaped.
This is due to three bands where the wall is slightly thicker.
It lies coiled in the body, usually showing two principal bends.
The general appearance in different individuals is shown in pi.
19, figures 1, 2 (also pi.
19, fig.
5, 0. s.
fragilis.)
The form cornea (pi.
19, fig.
3) is identical with depressa anatomically.
(6) In another series of specimens dissected the distal part of the penis collapses along two instead of three sides, so that its section becomes flattened instead of triangular.
It is also less coiled or twisted than in typical depressa.
This form of penis is shown in pi.
19, figs.
4 and 7, and pi.
20, fig.
8.
The last five measurements in the table on page 346 belong to these.
While the trefoil and the flat forms are almost always readily distinguishable, yet in a few specimens of the fiat type I have opened, there is some indication of a third ridge in part of the length (Stations 43, 46, figs.
3 and 6 of plate 19).
The flat type is probably more primitive than the trefoil, since it is common to this form of strigosa, peripherica and haydeni.
O. s. depressa form tooelensis H. and D. (pi.
21, fig.
5), from Station 10, about 6 miles from Tooele, Utah, agrees with many specimens of depressa in genitalia.
The distal part of the penis is flattened.
The radula of O. s. depressa from Colorado Springs has 16, 17, 1, 17, 16 teeth, the central and 5 or 6 inner laterals unicuspid.
346 [May, Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemph.).
PI.
19, fig.
5.
Genitalia as in 0. s. depressa, the distal portion of the penis collapsing into a trefoil shape in the individual dissected (Station 38).
Length of penis 18 mm.
; of internally costate part 5 mm.
; epiphallus 4; penial retractor 6 mm.
; diameter of the shell about 19 mm.
Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.).
PI.
21, fig.
6.
Genitalia as in form tooelensis, 0. s. depressa from Provo, and others, the penis collapsing flat.
The lower part has 5 ribs within.
Length of penis 25 mm., of internally costate portion 10, of epiphallus 7 mm., penial retractor 15 mm.
; vagina 6.7 mm.
The specimens came from Station 16, Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, Utah.
Measurements, in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix strigosa depressa.
 ,—1 MS 2Pt5 ~ bC.£< SP'3 u fcX sjd MSt £ 3 x e S u g^ 1— 1 C o r, C 03 3* C r> C l^a-s E Colorado Springs, Manitou Canyon 18.5 6.5 7.5 11 8 23 Fig.
1 Near Salt Lake City, Sta.
43 24 8 6 11 6 25 L'ig-13 Emigration Canyon, Sta.
46 26.5 11 7 7.5 6.5 25 Fig.
6 Near McCammon, Idaho, Sta.
2 23.5 7 6.3 10 5.5 27 Fig.
2 28 8.5 7 10.5 21.5 Ogden Canyon, Utah, Sta.
22 27.5 9 7 15 6 26 Fig.
7 Near Logan, Utah, Sta.
41 19.5 5.8 5 9 22 19 Fig.
4 Form tooelensis, Station 10 17 7 5 7.5 3.6 22 PL 21 Fig.
5 Oquirrh Mts., Station 13 23 8 7 13.5 6.6 22 25 PL 21 Fig.
7 Provo, U^tah, Station 44 20.5 8.5 7.5 7 6.5 23 PL 20 Fig.
8 Oreohelix hendersoni Pils.
PI.
20, fig.
7.
The length of the penis is three-fourths of the diameter of the shell.
Its internally costate segment is one-third the total length, and the distal papillose portion is somewhat flattened.
Length of the epiphallus is contained 2f times in that of the penis.
The penial retractor muscle is shorter than usual in P. strigosa depressa.
l'.lltil 347 The lower third of the spermatheca duct is Large, then abruptly contracting.
There is a general similarity with the genitalia of 0. s. depressa.
Measurements in mm.
follow.
Length of penis 12, of its costate lower portion 4; epiphallus 4.5; penial retractor 4; vagina 4; spermatheca and duct 10.5; diam.
of shell 16 mm.
The three areas of the radula appear distinct, in a slightly enlarged view, the rows of marginal teeth being oblique.
In most Oreohelices the areas are not well marked.
The central tooth and laterals have rudimentary side cusps.
Formula 16, 12, 1, 12, 16.
Text fig.
16.
By the forms of the individual teeth and the more distinct differentiation of areas in the radula, this species differs from the strigosa series.
Oreohelix haydeni (Gabb).
PI.
21, figs.
1.
2, 4, 8.
0. haydeni does not differ from 0. strigosa depressa in any important or diagnostic characters of the genitalia or dentition, but the features of the shell seem quite sufficient to give it specific rank.
The typical form, from Weber Canyon in the Wasatch Range, has not been collected alive so far as I know.
The forms examined agree pretty closely in soft anatomy.
The internally costate part of the penis is about one-third of the total length.
The distal portion collapses flat.
The penial retractor is decidedly shorter in subsp.
corrugata and hybrida than in subsp.
betheli and gabbiana.
This is probably not a character of much importance.
The retractor is sometimes continued in the lung floor for some distance, as in pi.
21, figs.
2 and 8.
Only the free part is measured in the table.
In hybrida the penis is more twisted than in the other forms, at least in the individual dissected.
In all the forms, the distal part of the penis collapses more or less flat.
0. h. betheli has four unequal ribs in the lower part.
Length of penis.
rt X sib-g a tc.3< i o 03 .
O Sh oq o .
— .5 6 — .E -L .
zL ti ~ U ~ z: ri D.-8 > Length of spermatheca and duct.
Approximate diameter Of shell.
Plate 21.
0. h. betheli ( >.
h. gabbiana 0. h. corrugata 0. h. hybrida 19 Hi lti..-) Hi 6 18 + (i 11 5 7 4 5 7.5 21 5.5 5 17 4 15 5 Fig.
2 5.5 Fig.
1 5 Fig.
4 5 Fig.
8 24 348 [May, In 0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata the central and inner lateral teeth are unicuspid, but there are narrow, cutting edges overhanging from the central cusps, in place of side cusps.
Oreohelix haydeni mixta n. subsp.
The shell is whitish with the early whorls clay color (the last whorl sometimes having two narrow brown bands, the upper one ascending the spire).
Sculpture often equal, rather fine, deeply cut growthwrinkles, cut by spiral engraved lines, unequally developed, and on the base often grouped so as to leave spiral bands of long granules at intervals.
Periphery angular or subangular in front, becoming rounded on the rest of the last whorl.
Embryonic shell having irregular radial ripples, and the usual very fine spiral striation; on the last whorl some coarse spirals ; peripheral carina strongly pinched out.
Height 18.3, diam.
12 mm.
; umbilicus 3.6 mm.
The genitalia (pi.
21, fig.
3) resemble the organs of 0. haydeni in proportions, the internally ribbed part of the penis being less than half of the total length, but thicker than in haydeni, perhaps an individual feature.
The distal part has a somewhat trefoil section.
It differs from 0. cooperi by the longer penis relative to the diameter of the shell, its length being about equal to the diameter in this form, but decidedly less in all of the cooperi I have measured.
The internally costate part is relatively shorter than in cooperi.
Glenwood Springs, Colorado, on the bluff above the Hotel Colorado, among oak leaves and debris on a sandstone and shale ledge above station of 0. h. betheli.
Type No.
94,058 A. N. S. P. (from No.
447 of Prof. Ellsworth Bethel, 1907).
Another lot from Mr. Bethel, No.
94,796, consists of individuals like the above lot, with others having two narrow spiral lines in the usual cooperi positions.
One of this lot (whether banded or plain not known) was dissected, pi.
22, fig.
5.
It agrees with the type in proportions of the penis, but the penial retractor and the vagina are shorter.
Measurements of the genitalia in mm.
follow.
Mus.
No.
Length of penis.
Length of internally ribbed part of penis.
Length of epiphallus.
Length of penial retractor.
Length of Diameter vagina.
of shell.
94,058... 94,796.... 18 17.5 6.8 7.7 6.3 6 IS 8 9 6 18.3 about 18 1916.]
349 This is the form which was at one time identified as 0. haydeni gabbiana.
It resembles 0. h. hybrida very closely, but the embryonic stage differs.
The last embryonic whorl is not so convex in mixta, and its major spirals are more distinct and the radial ripples are more irregular.
The carina is decidedly more prominent, and the whorl as a whole is distinctly more depressed.
It is likely that hybrida and mixta are independent forms of the haydeni stock, or perhaps separated relics of a pro-haydeni race.
Some specimens have much the appearance of cooperi, but the genitalia show that there is no real connection.
There is large individual variation in the height of the spire.
The embryonic shell of 0. h. gabbiana has stronger spirals both above and below near the end of the last embryonic whorl; its periphery is less pinched out, and it is less depressed.
The adult gabbiana is usually more strongly angular or keeled.
Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey).
PI.
20, figs, l to 6.
In genitalia this species does not differ materially from 0. strigosa depressa (b) and 0. haydeni.
The internally costate part of the penis is less than half of the total length, usually slightly over a third.
The internally papillose distal portion usually collapses flat, but one specimen from Station 30 and one from 36 there are weak indications of a third ridge.
The cylindric lower part of the penis has 5 or 6 longitudinal ribs within.
Many specimens were opened, from various localities, and including nearly smooth, fine-ribbed and coarse-ribbed, white and banded individuals.
Except in size, there is very little variation.
Measurements, in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix peripherica.
Locality.
Length of penis.
Length of costate part of penis.
Length of epiphallus.
Length of penial retractor.
Length of vagina.
Length of spermatheca and duct.
Approximate diameter of shell.
Plate 20.
Station 26 18.5 16 18.5 14 18 18 21 6 6 7.2 6.5 8 6.5 7.5 4 5.5 6 4 4 4.5 5 "8.5 o.o 11.5 10 13.5 5.5 4.5 6.6 6 6.5 18"" 18 21 23.5 18-20 18-25 195-20 20 20 Fig.
4 Station 26 ... Station 29...
Fig.
3 Fig.
6 Fig.
2 Fig.
1 Fig.
5 Station 30.
Station 33 (Whitci Station 33 (Banded) Station 36 350 [May, The central and inner lateral teeth have no side cusps.
There are about 12 lateral teeth on each side (Station 30).
In an individual from Station 36 there are 17, 13, 1, 13, 17 teeth.
The transition from lateral to marginal teeth is very gradual in this species, so that the exact number of laterals is somewhat uncertain.
Oreohelix rugosa (Hemphill).
PL 22, figs.
7, 7a.
The penis is about two-thirds the diameter of the shell, therefore shorter than in any form of 0. s. depressa examined.
Its internally costate lower portion is relatively decidedly longer than in 0. s. depressa, being over half the total length, agreeing with that of 0. cooperi.
Inside the lower part has 5 or 6 fleshy ribs, smooth, as usual, and the upper part has about the same number, but they are lower, and both ribs and intervals are papillose.
The duct of the spermatheca is longer than in 0. s. depressa.
Two individuals measure : Length of penis.
Length of costate part of penis.
Length of epiphallus Length of penial retractor.
Length of vagina.
Length of spermatheca and duct.
Diameter of shell.
16 16 11 10 6 6.2 7.6 6 29 24.5 There are about 13 lateral teeth on each side, the inner 9 to 11 without side cusps.
The transition to marginals is very gradual.
Oreohelix cooperi (W. G.
B.).
PI.
22, figs.
1, 2, 3, 4.
Specimens from Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and New Mexico have been dissected.
All agree in having the internally costate part of the penis longer than the papillose part, which at once differentiates the species from 0. strigosa and 0. peripherica, in which the costate part is much shorter than the papillose part.
The penial retractor is short, less than half the length of the penis in the smaller specimens, but about two-thirds the length of penis in the large forms from Yellowstone Park and New Mexico.
The median part of the penis is often somewhat swollen, but in other examples this is not noticeable.
The penis has usually four main fleshy ridges in the lower part as in specimens from McCammon, Idaho (fig.
2), and the Black Range of New Mexico, or there may be about 6 unequal ridges (fig.
1, Yellowstone Park, No.
96,973), one of them continuing upwards 191(3.1 351 further than the others.
In the Black Range form the ribbed portion projects upwards into the cavity of the papillose part.
Measurements in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix cooperi.
Locality.
Glenevre, Colo., 7,000 ft, S2.1S5 McCammon, Idaho, Station 1 Eureka, Utah, Station 6... O. cooperi maxima.
Yellowstone Park, 96,973 Black Range, X. M. Sta.
26 MS r i.
«8.6 4.6 4.3 12 7.5 5.5 12 6.5 5 14.5 8.7 5 15.5 9 5 2.4 5.3 4 10 9 2 3.7 3.7 5 5 11 i 16-18 21 22 15-16 24 26 Fig.
3 Fig.
2 Fig.
4 Fig.
1 Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis Pils.
& Ferr.
PI.
22, figs.
6, 6a.
The specimen figured is from Shell, Wyoming (Pilsbry, Nautilus XXVII, 1913, p. 50).
The penis is short, its lower two-thirds swollen, upper third cylindric; internally there are very low, short folds bounded above by a low narrow transverse ridge, in the enlarged part, the upper part having densely papillose walls.
Fig.
6a represents the penis opened and pinned flat.
The papilla?
in the upper portion are represented diagrammatically.
The epiphallus is not quite half as long as the penis.
The base of the spermatheca duct is enlarged, as usual.
The uterus contained 8 embryos in the individual figured, the largest of 2^ whorls.
Length of penis 7 mm., of its internally costate part 4.5; epiphallus 3.3 mm.
; vagina 2 mm.
; spermatheca and duct 13 mm.
The central and 5 or 6 inner lateral teeth have no side cusps.
The seventh lateral has a well developed ectocone.
The jaw is striate as usual in the genus.
The animal is purplish black above and on the sides, the sole cream colored.
The embryonic shell has 2\ whorls, is convex above with an angular, not acute, periphery.
The first \\ whorls are convex with irregular growth stria?, some microscopic spirals then appearing.
The last third of a whorl has about 5 coarse but very low spirals, and the cuticle, under a high power, is seen to be minutely crinkled, also on the base.
Oreohelix conoentrata (Dall).
PI.
22, fig.
9.
The specimen figured is No.
94,343 A. N. S. P., from Miller's Peak, Huachuca Mts., Arizona.
The penis is swollen below the middle, length 8 mm., length of internally costate part 4.5 mm.
; of epiphallus 4 mm.
; of vagina about 3.6 mm.
Diameter of the shell 15.5 mm.
This agrees substantially with the large form of the same district, 0. c. form huachucana (Pilsbry, Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905, p. 275, pi.
19, fig.
6).
Both differ from 0. strigosa by the swollen penis and relatively larger costate portion, which occupies more than half the total length, as in 0. cooperi.
My former reference of concentrata and huachucana to 0. strigosa as subspecies was clearly erroneous, and due to the fact that I had not dissected enough Oreohelices to appreciate their specific characters.
In the general discussion of the anatomy (Proc.
A. N. S. Phila.
1905, p. 271), 0. strigosa and huachucana were put in separate divisions.
Oreohelix metoalfei Ckll.
PI.
22, fig.
10.
Collected in abundance by Mr. Ferriss and the writer, in the Black Range, New Mexico.
The penis resembles that of 0. concentrata and 0. pilsbryi, the median portion being much swollen, with very thick walls, and broad, longitudinal ribs inside.
The much narrower, twisted upper portion has coarse papillae within, and one longitudinal papillose rib.
Length of penis 12 mm., of its internally costate portion 7 mm.
; of epiphallus 4 mm.
; vagina 4 mm.
Diameter of the shell 19.5 mm.
The radula has 12 lateral teeth on each side, like those of 0. s. depressa except that the cusps are more slender.
Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss.
PI.
22, fig.
8.
Genitalia about as in 0. metcalfei.
The swollen part of the penis has about 6 unequal ribs within; these project slightly into the cavity of the papillose portion, which has one longitudinal rib.
Length of penis 12, of the ribbed portion 7 mm.
; epiphallus 4 mm.
; penial retractor 4 mm.
; vagina '4 mm.
; spermatheca and duct 15 mm.
Diameter of the shell 17.6 mm.
Although the shell of 0. pilsbryi has an astonishing similarity to that of 0. haydeni, the genitalia show that there is no direct relationship.
0. metcalfei is closely related to pilsbryi, being anatomically indistinguishable.
1916.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
353 Catalogue of species, subspecies, and other named forms.
Note.
— An asterisk (*) following a specific or varietal name indicates that a figure of the genitalia has been published by the writer, and serves to show what species and subspecies require examination.
Several other subspecies of the Arizonian species have been dissected but not figured.
0. idahoensis (Newc).
Coeur d'Alene district, Idaho.
O. cooperi (W. G.
B.).
* Black Hills, S. Dakota; (Rocky Mountains).
Forms trifasciata Ckll., Mesa Co., Colo.; confluens Ckll., Garfield and Mesa Cos., Colo.; elevata Ckll., Delta Co., Colo.; typica Ckll., Colo.; minor Ckll., Rouett Co., Colo.; iowensis Pils., Loess of Iowa; maxima Pils.,* Yellowstone Park.
0. c. stantoni Dall.
Assiniboia.
0. c. globosula Ckll.
Summit Co., Colo. (Syn.
globulosa Pils.).
0. c. berryi Pils.
Snowy Mts., Fergus Co., Mont.
0. rugosa (Hemph.).
* Near Brigham City, Utah.
O. peripherica ( Ancey) .
* Bear River region, Northern Utah.
(Syn.
, multicostata, Hemph.)
Forms binneyi, castanea, albofasciata, gouldi Hemph.
0. p. newcombi (Hemph.).
Near Ogden, Utah.
0. p. wasatchensis (Hemph.).
Near Ogden, Utah.
0. pygm.ea Pils.
Near Shell, Wyoming.
O. strigosa (Gld.).
"Interior of Oregon."
0. s. parma (Hemph.).
Spokane Falls, Washington.
0. s. jugalis (Hemph.).
Salmon River, Idaho.
0. s. intersum (Hemph.).
Salmon River, Idaho.
0. s. limitaris (Dawson).
Waterton Lake, Montana-Alberta boundary.
0. s. alpina Elrod.
Mission Range, Montana.
(Svn.
: montana Elrod.)
O. s. subcarinata (Hemph.).
Rathdrum, Idaho.
Forms lactea, bicolor and picta Hemph.
Same colony.
O. s. depressa (Ckll.).
* Near Durango, Colo.; (Southern Idaho to northern Arizona, Colo., New Mexico).
Form major Ckll.
Mesa Co., Colo. " sinistrorsa Ckll., Colorado.
cornea Hemph.
* Near Salt Lake City, Utah.
albida Hemph.
Near Logan; Utah.
(?
Syn., Patula strigosa var.
alba Ckll., preoc). "
tooelensis Hend.
and Dan.
* Near Tooele, Utah.
0. s. fragilis (Hemph.).
* Near Franklin, Idaho.
0. s. buttoni (Hemph.).
* Box Elder Co., Utah; also near Ogden.
0. s. magnicornu Pils.
Big Horn Mts., Wyoming.
0. hendersoni Pils.
* Little Thompson Creek, 10 miles N. W. of Longmont, Colo. 0. h. dakani Hend.
New Castle, Colo. (?
= rugosa Hemph.).
0. haydeni (Gabb.).
Weber canyon, Utah.
0. h. oquirrhensis (Hemph.).
Oquirrh Mountains, Utah.
0. h. gabbiana (Hemph.).
* Oquirrh Mountains, Utah.
0. h. utahensis (Hemph.).
Oquirrh Mountains, Utah.
0. h. corrugata Hend.
and Dan.
* Small, nearly isolated mountain, southeast of Webster, Utah.
0. h. hybrida (Hemph.).
* Near Logan, Utah.
0. h. betheli Pils.
and Ckll.
* Glen wood Springs, Colorado.
Form alta Pils.
and Ckll.
Glenwood Springs, Colorado.
O. h. mixta Pils.
* Glenwood Springs, Colorado.
O. hemphilli (Newc).
White Pine mining district, Nevada.
O. h. eurekensis Hend.
and Dan.
Eureka, Utah.
O. tenuistriata Hend.
and Dan.
Between McCammon and Hot Lava Springs, Idaho.
O. carinifera Pils.
Garrison, Montana.
0. bruneri (Ancey).
Montana.
(Not seen by the author, and unknown in American collections.)
0. elrodi Pils.
* MacDonald Lake, Mission Range, Montana.
O. yavapai Pils.
* Yavapai Co., Arizona, etc.
O. y. neomexicana Pils.
* San Miguel Co., New Mexico.
0. y. compactula Ckll.
Pecos canyon, New Mexico.
0. y. extremitatis Pils.
and Ferr.
* Grand Canyon, Ariz.; also northern Wyoming.
O. y. angelica Pils.
and Ferr.
Grand Canyon, Arizona.
0. y. profundorum Pils.
and Ferr.
Grand Canyon, Arizona.
0. y. marise Bartsch.
Squaw Creek, near mouth Gallatin Canyon, Montana.
O. concentrata (Dall).
* Huachuca Range, Arizona.
Form huachucana Pils.
* Huachuca Range, Arizona.
O. metcalfei Ckll.
* Black Range, New Mexico.
O. pilsbryi Ferriss.
* Mineral Creek, Chloride, Sierra Co., New Mexico.
O. barbata Pils.
* Chiricahua Range, Arizona; also Mogollon Range, N. M. 0. b. minima Pils.
and Ferr.
Chiricahua Range, Arizona.
O. socorroensis Pils.
Socorro Co., New Mexico.
Subgenus Radiocentrum Pils.
O. avalonensis Hemph.
Catalina Island, California.
O. CHiRiCAHUANA Pils.
* Cave Creek Canyon, near the cave, Chiricahua Range, Arizona.
0. c. percarinata Pils.
and Ferr.
Big Emigrant Canyon, and Paradise Canyon, Chiricahua Range, Arizona.
0. c. obsoleta Pils.
and Ferr.
White Tail Canyon, Chiricahua Range, Arizona.
O. clappi Ferriss.
* Cave Creek, etc., Chiricahua Range, Arizona.
0. c. emigrans Pils.
and Ferr.
Big Emigrant Canyon, Chiricahuas.
O. c. cataracta Pils.
and Ferr.
Falls of Cave Creek, Chiricahuas.
O. ferrissi Pils.
* Near mouth of Sheridan Canyon, Big Hachet Mountains, New Mexico.
0. f. morticina Pils.
Daniels Peak, Big Hachat Mts., New Mexico.
 mm.
long, tarsi yellowish farticornis Ckll.
Larger, at least over 5 mm.
long 7.
7.
Tarsi black spenceri Ckll.
Tarsi red or yellow 8.
8.
Stigma ferruginous; head broad and massive....pachycephalus Ckll.
Stigma fuscous 9.
9.
Mesothorax shining dolichocerus Ckll.
Mesothorax dull hcematopus Ckll.
10.
Small, hardly 5.5 mm.
long semipolitus expulsus Ckll.
Larger .11.
11.
Disc of mesothorax with scattered punctures of different size, supralucens Ckll.
Disc of mesothorax well punctured, the punctures uniform 12.
12.
Fourth abdominal segment, except broad apical margin, densely covered with pale felt-like hair lanariellus Ckll Fourth segment not so 13.
13.
Hind margins of abdominal segments reddened; area of metathorax with irregular sculpture pulvitedus Ckll.
Hind margins of abdominal segments black; area of metathorax with fine definite longitudinal plicse 1-4.
14.
Stigma ferruginous; area of metathorax shorter confusi llus Ckll.
Stigma piceous; area of metathorax longer imitans Ckll.
A NEW SPECIES OF ONCHIDIOPSIS FROM BERING SEA.
BY WILLIAM H. DALL.
The 'genus Onchidiopsis Bergh (1853) was proposed for certain Arctic mollusks related to Velutina and possessing an internal nearly laminar shell.
The minor characters of the few species known are in many respects different but their combinations are so intermixed that it is difficult to assign to the differences more than specific value.
However the peculiarities of the present species are such that I venture to separate the genus into two sections, as follows : Genus ONCHIDIOPSIS Bergh, 1S53.
Section ONCHIDIOPSIS, type 0. gronlandica Bergh.
Adult animal with an impervious notseum.
Section ATLANTOLIMAX, type 0.
(A.)
hannai Dall.
Adult with a large dorsal foramen in the notseum.
Onchidiopsis  hannai n. sp.
Animal, after preservation in spirits, of a yellowish white color except on the sides of the foot and on the osphradium.
The foot is muscular, broad, tapering and bluntly pointed behind, extending about one-third of its length behind the hinder margin of the notseum even when contracted; the front edge duplex, auriculate at the anterior lateral angles; proboscis entirely retractile within a transverse slit, below the short stout tentacles; eyes black, distinct, completely imbedded in and a little above the not perceptibly swollen bases of the tentacles, on their outer sides; verge situated behind the right tentacle, large, twisted, at first stout and subcylindrical, then deeply constricted; then compressed and expanded with a conical papilla at the outer corner of the expansion 1 much as in 0. corys Balch.
The sides of the foot are radially corrugated, the convex folds sometimes more or less granulose; above the corrugated area and in the pedal sulcus below the edge of the mantle the surface is smooth 1 In Balch's figure of 0. corys this papilla is shown at the inner corner of the expansion, a difference which is probably due to twisting.
Cf.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Museum, No.
1,761, pi.
22, fig.
1. and white, though the corrugations arc more or less tinged with slate color.
The visceral hump i^ enormous, subglobular, shorter than the foot, height above the sole 52 mm.
; above the sulcus between mantle-edge and foot 40 mm.
; longitudinal diameter 42 mm.
; transverse diameter 37 mm.
The hum]) is largely covered by a thick, obscurely pustulous, almost coriaceous layer (the notaeum) beneath which is a thin, transparent but quite tough mantle which in spirits expands below the basal edge of the not a 'inn above the pedal sulcus especially in front (though not as much as in 0. corys), like a mass of bubbles, with a hardly perceptible sinus on either side forming an incurrent and an exhalent channel, which however does not affect the margin of the notaeum, the latter being entire except for a slight incurvation in the median line in front.
The summit of the notseum (in spirits) exhibits an ovoid foramen about 30 mm.
long by 24 mm.
wide, through which the shell, covered by the excessively thin transparent mantle, is partially visible.
There is a transverse slit-like opening between the mantle and the pedal sulcus, directly behind the head, in which the osphradium, ctenidium and excretory outlets are situated.
The osphradium is of a greenish tint, with darker margins.
The gill is translucent white.
In the former the filaments are single and elongated on either side of the stalk, not short and double as in 0. corys.
The ctenidium has a single row of long, triangular, not auriculate lamellae much as in that species.
The jaw much resembles that of 0. corys, but the radula was so deeply retracted that it was thought best not to break up the unique specimen by cutting to extract it.
The base of the arc of the shell measures 40 mm.
long by 32 mm.
wide.
It has much the shape of the bowl of a deep oval ladle and it^ depth is about 15 mm.
when in normal position.
Its structure iconcentric, not in circles but in a rounded-quadrate fashion.
On the edge of the left side behind is a knot-like nucleus.
On the inner surface near this nucleus and extending for a length of about 12 mm.
away from it are two elevated straight ridges, which at half thenlength from the nucleus join to form a single stronger ridge which gradually diminishes and becomes obsolete on the inner surface of the disk.
The appearance of these ridges suggests that if the shell was spirally coiled they would form a columella.
The outer surface of the shell, to which the mantle adheres tenaciously, is smooth, but undulated by more or less irregularly disposed concentric wrinkles.
It is attached to the body only by a small area at the edge near the nucleus.
There is no indication of a periostracum, and the cartilaginous shell is nearly transparent.
The specimen was collected on the beach of St. Paul Island, Bering Sea, after a severe storm, December 5, 1914, by Mr. G. Dallas Hanna of the Bureau of Fisheries, in whose honor it is named.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Cat.
No.
215,162.
This species differs from 0. corys by its widely foraminate notseum, its much larger visceral hump, its single instead of double osphradial lamella, and the character of its shell.
0. gronlandica, glacialis and pacifica have an imperforate notseum.
0. gronlandica has a low visceral hump and entirely different form of verge.
0. glacialis has a proportionately much shorter and posteriorly pointed foot, lower hump and different type of verge, and 0. pacifica shows much the same differences.
The disposition to "lump" together specifically animals of this genus in spite of minor differences, is responsible for much confusion.
The differences of more than specific rank run parallel to those in Velutina, where some species have the shell entirely covered by the notseum and others have it more or less exposed.
It has been suggested that all species have the shell covered in the young, but the specimens of all ages collected by me do not confirm this supposition.
While the edges of the shell and its concave surface, except for the portion near the nucleus, are free from the visceral hump below, it is nevertheless completely covered by an extremely thin layer of tough tissue which can be separated from the shell only with difficulty, usually coming off in small strips.
This tissue I assume to be an extension of the mantle as it has none of the characteristics of a periostracum.
The entrance of the vagina could not be made out.
It required for its demonstration more extensive dissection than was thought advisable for the unique specimen.
The animal is presumably hermaphrodite, like the other species of the genus which have been anatomically examined.
THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF THE SARCOSPORIDIA.
BY HOWARD CRAWLEY.
In a paper recently published by* the present author (Crawley, 1916), evidence was given to show that the spores of Sarcocystis muris are sexually differentiated.
This evidence was based upon the findings in the intestinal cells of mice to which the spores had been fed.
It is, however, quite possible that a careful study of accurately fixed and stained spores taken directly from the cysts would reveal characters serving to differentiate the males and females.
Certain authors, for instance Fantham (1913), in the case of Sarcocystis colli, speak of two kinds of spores, but nothing of the sort has as yet been demonstrated in the case of Sarcocystis muris.
Nevertheless, as already stated, these spores are males and females and within the intestinal cells of the mouse they quickly develop along their respective lines.
This evolution is completed in from 9 to 18 hours, after which fertilization takes place.
My own studies shed no light upon later events.
The fertilized female or zygote can be found, sometimes within the epithelial cells, sometimes in the subepithelial tissues, in mice killed one or two days after inoculation.
But as yet I have not been able to find the parasite in mice killed at longer intervals than this after feeding.
Erdmann (1914) describes and figures what are apparently the multiplication stages of a parasitic protozoan in the intestinal cells and tissues of mice killed some days after the ingestion of sarcosporidian spores.
The precautions taken by Erdmann seem absolutely to preclude infections with any other protozoan.
Consequently, as the case now stands, it seems entirely reasonable to look upon these multiplication stages as derived from the zygotes.
According to Negre (1907) the feces of mice that have been inoculated by feeding the usual cysts contain a stage of the parasite capable of producing the infection if fed to other mice.
This is present in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth day alter inoculation.
It is evidently a resistant encysted stage, since it maintains its vitality for 30 days in the dried feces, and is capable of resisting a considerable degree of heat.
When mice are inoculated with this stage, both the time required for the parasites to appear in the 26 muscles and the percentage of positive cases are the same as when the mice are fed with the stages occurring in the muscles.
Negre, however, was not able to detect this element in the feces and although it seems as if it must be present in the intestinal tissues for a longtime after inoculation, it has never been seen.
Hence the evidence for its existence, while entirely satisfactory, is wholly indirect.
Negre's experiments have been repeated at the Zoological Laboratory of the Bureau of Animal Industry, and his results confirmed.
The impression is, however, that the infections resulting from i noculation with the fecal stage are heavier than those obtained from feeding infected muscle.
Microscopical examination of the spores obtained in this manner show them to be precisely the same as those resulting from the other mode of infection.
As we have seen, Erdmann describes multiplication stages as occurring in the intestine some days after inoculation.
The parasite then disappears to reappear at about the forty-fifth day in the muscles.
Several authors have endeavored to trace the history of the muscle stages, but of the several accounts the most convincing is that of Negri (1910).
This author worked with the white rat, but the parasites of the rat and mouse seem to be identical and there is no reason to suppose that the development of one would be any different from that of the other.
The smallest and hence, doubtless, the youngest stage found by Negri was an elongated body, about 25 n long.
It was found in a rat killed 50 days after feeding.
It showed a delicate bounding membrane and was rather indistinctly divided into a number of oval elements, each with a central differentiation.
This no doubt represented the nucleus.
Negri designates these bodies as sporoblasts.
In somewhat larger cysts the picture is clearer, the oval sporoblasts being completely individualized, and each shows a very distinct nucleus.
From this point on development appears to follow very simple lines.
The sporoblasts divide repeatedly by bi-partition, each daughter cell coming to assume the oval form of the mother cell.
The parasite itself, the so-called cyst, becomes larger, but this increase in size is due merely to an increase in the number of the sporoblasts, which do not themselves become larger.
The entire mass remains separated from the host tissue by the same kind of a delicate membrane.
Matters proceed in this way until the cysts, according to Negri, have attained a length of some 600 p-.
From this time on, however, the two daughter cells arising from the division of a sporo lasl do not, always take on the oval form of the mother cell, but each r< tai the form it had at the momenl of division and does no1 again divide.
The division of the sporoblast having been longitudinal, the form of the daughter cells is that of a banana and they are, in fact, the spori The production of the spores in this way is initiated in the central part of the cyst.
At the outset of this new line of development, the cysts will contain many sporoblasts and few spores and there is no doubt that the production of both spores and sporoblasts may take place simultaneously in different or even the same parts of the same cyst.
Eventually, however, the divisions of the sporoblasts produce only spores which finally come to be the only elements present within the cysts.
Bertram (1892) describes very early stages of the evolution of Sarcocystis tenella in the muscles of the sheep.
Several of his original figures have been reproduced in most of the general works on the parasitic Protozoa, and doubtless are familiar to all students of thes< organisms.
Of these, Bertram's figure 22, reproduced by Doflein (1911) as figure 891 C, page 922, represents an element 47 /-* long by 6 /j wide.
We have here what appears to be a solid body indistinctly marked out into small round or oval elements, each with a nucleus, It is strikingly like the smallest stage of Sarcocystis muris afigured and described by Negri.
Bertram also figures somewhat larger stages of the muscle phase of Sarcocystis tenella, and in these, reproduced by Doflein (1911) as figures 891 B and D, page 922, the so-called cysts are more or less completely differentiated into rounded or oval nucleated cells, the sporoblasts.
Since the Sarcosporidia are always classified as Neosporidia, it has been tacitly assumed that the earliest stage in the muscles must be an organism in which growth and spore formation take place coincidently.
The very smallest stages figured and described by Negri and Bertram are capable of being interpreted in this way, since they appear to consist of bodies of some size, indistinctly divided into rounded or oval nucleated elements.
Inasmuch, however, as these bodies occur embedded in the muscular tissues of their host-, p by no means easy to get clear-cut pictures of them, and it is whol Impossible that the rather indefinite appearances figured by these two authors may be due merely to the difficulty of differentiating the sporoblasts from the surrounding host tissues.
In consequence, it is not at all impossible that these earliest stages of Bertram and Negri may be only groups of sporoblasts, and it is in harmony with this opinion that in both cases these authors figure slightly later stages of the parasite in which the sporoblasts are completely individualized.
More direct evidence, however, is furnished by some material which has recently been examined by the present author.
This, from the heart of a sheep, appears to show that at least in the case of Sarcocystis tenella, the sarcosporidian cyst originates from a single cell.
This conclusion is based upon the discovery of a single partly divided sporoblast, lying in a minute cavity within a cell of the heart.
Division had progressed to the point where the two daughter cells were wholly distinct, but still in intimate contact.
The next stage found consisted of a group of eight sporoblasts, also lying in a cavity within a heart cell.
All of these eight sporoblasts were more or less completely individualized.
In addition to these very small stages, larger groups of sporoblasts were found, up to cysts of over 100 plong.
But in all cases the elements composing the groups were obviously the same as the sporoblasts of Negri and Bertram.
Thus the data furnished by Bertram, Negri, and the present author are entirely consistent amongst themselves, and are mutually confirmatory and supplementary.
For although the earliest known stage of S. muris yet discovered consists of a number of cells, about six or seven, judging from Negri's figure, we can hardly ascribe to it a mode of development different from that of S. tenella.
Assuming then that these data are accurate, a certain interesting conclusion seems to follow.
This conclusion is in effect that the muscle stage of Sarcocystis muris is not an individual, but a congeries or colony of individuals.
In other words, the unit is not the cyst or Miescher's tube, but the sporoblast itself.
Assuming that this is true, the life history of Sarcocystis muris would be as follows: The ingested spores gain the epithelium of the intestine and develop into the macrogametes and microgametes.
The latter fertilize the former and produce the zygotes.
By endogenous multiplication the zygotes produce a number of minute elements.
There is here a gap in the life history.
It is evident that two divergent lines are followed since, as we have seen, some form of the parasite appears in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth day.
It is therefore impossible to say whether the multiplication products described by Erdmann are those destined to invade the muscles or to infect the feces.
But whatever happens, it is evident that at the end of several weeks some form of the parasite invades the muscles.
This is either the sporobhist itself or immediate forerunner, which may be the zygote or some elemenl derived from the zygote.
In any event, at a certain point in the evolutionary history, the muscle cells come to harbor individual sporoblasts.
These divide many times by bi-partition, but eventually the products of these divisions are no longer sporoblasts, but spores.
It may incidentally be noted that unless its development be interfered with, each sporoblast will presumably produce a cyst.
It will be of interest to compare the several stages of the life history of Sarcocystis muris with those of an ideal member of the Coccidiomorpha.
The sarcosporidian "spore" develops directly into the sexual stages, the macrogametes and microgametes.
These copulate and produce the zygotes.
In the coccidiomorphan, the merozoites produced at the end of schizogony follow an identical line of development.
The sarcosporidian zygote divides into a number of small bodies, the further history of which is unknown.
The coccidian zygote ultimately produces the sporozoites, although the details whereby this end is gained are subject to great variation.
In the sarcosporidian, some product of the zygote ultimately finds its way into the muscle cells, and produces the colony of sporoblasts.
In the Coccidiomorpha, the sporozoites eventually find their way into their appropriate habitats, which are always cells, and grow into trophozoites.
In the sarcosporidian, the sporoblasts divide a number of times by bi-partition, after which spores are produced and division cease-.
These spores, in order to develop further, must gain the alimentary canal of another host in which they will evolve into the sexual stages.
In the Coccidiomorpha, the trophozoites divide into merozoites These grow into trophozoites, which again divide into merozoiteand so on for an indefinite number of generations.
Eventually, however, the merozoites develop, not into trophozoites, but into the sexual forms.
It will next be in order to see what conclusions may be drawn from the data given above.
In so doing, it will be convenient to divide the sarcosporidian life history into three portions, namely, the sexual development which takes place in the intestinal .
'pithelium; the stage which follows this; and finally the stage which occurs in the muscles.
In so far as the first of these stages is concerned, that is, the evolution of the microgametes and macrogametes, the parallel between sarcosporidian and coccidiomorphan is exact.
In the second stage, the gaps in our knowledge of the course of events in the Sarcosporidia prevents as precise a comparison.
We do not know what happens between the time the parasite leaves the epithelium and the time it invades the muscle, nor has the stage which appears in the feces ever been seen.
Nevertheless, the course of events in the two cases must be more or less similar.
For in both, the zygote divides into a number of small elements which serve to carry the infection either to other hosts or to other parts of the same host.
In the Coccidiomorpha, there is typically a first division into spores, the protoplasm of which secondarily divides into sporozoites.
In the sarcosporidian, it is in evidence that the zygote divides into small elements, the further history of which is not known.
But in any event, it must be some product of the zygote which on the one hand invades the muscles and on the other develops into the encysted fecal stage.
It is conceivable that it is an encysted zygote which infects the feces, but we do not know.
In the third stage, the course of events differs in detail in the two groups of animals, but the end results are the same, since in both there are produced a large number of elements destined to evolve into the sexual stages.
In the Coccidiomorpha, there is extensive growth, followed by multiple division, this cycle being repeated an indefinite number of times.
In the Sarcosporidia, there is an indefinite number of bi-partitions alternating with only enough growth to restore the element to its original size.
In the one case, the Sarcosporidia, multiplicative energy is continuous, while in the other, the Coccidiomorpha, it is periodic, but this difference is not essential.
We may next endeavor to homologize the several stages in the life history of Sarcocystis muris with those of the Coccidiomorpha.
In the first place, it is entirely evident that the sarcosporidian "spore" is the homologue of the coccidiomorphan merozoite.
The sexual stages are alike.
The multiplication products of the sarcosporidian zygote are presumably the homologues of either the spores or sporozoites of the Coccidiomorpha.
The sporoblast is not so easy to place.
It may correspond to either the sporozoite or the trophozoite of the Coccidiomorpha.
A knowledge of its derivation is necessary before this point can be determined.
Since, however, the sporoblasts are all of much the same size, whether occurring singly or within groups, the distinction here between sporozoite and trophozoite would be largely a matter of terms.
Attention may also be called to the homology of the sarcosporidian muscle stage with the entire schizogonous cycle of the Coccidiomorpha.
In the latter, the products of schizogony are set free and are enabled to invade new regions of the host.
In the former, a tissue reaction on the part of the host confines them in the region originally invade* 1.
If the line of reasoning developed above he sound, it seems to follow that the Sarcosporidia are not Xeosporidia, but Telosporidia, and moreover Telosporidia which obviously belongs to the Coccidiomorpha.
In the discussion given above, the various characters of the Sarcosporidia and Coccidiomorpha were compared, the result showing both resemblances and differences.
But as will be pointed out below, the characters of taxonomic value were those wherein tin two groups were alike, whereas the differences had to do with characters not used in classification.
Before, however, giving the reasons for regarding the Sarcosporidia to be Telosporidia, it may be advisable to point out the difficulties in the way of regarding them as Neosporidia.
This group, which constitutes a subclass of the Sporozoa, is defined by Doflein (1911), p. 701 as composed of Sporozoa which may sporulate during the entire vegetative period.
Thus, a typical neosporidian will consist of a multinucleate organism, in the cytoplasm of which there will be a number of spores in various stages of evolution.
It has apparently always been assumed that something of the sort takes place in the Sarcosporidia; that the cyst originates from a multinucleate element which only secondarily becomes multicellular.
As we have seen, however, the cyst is composed of separate cells from the very outset.
Hence there appears to be no good reason for regarding the Sarcosporidia as Neosporidia.
We are now in position to suggest, at least tentatively, a new classification for the Sporozoa.
This class is divided into two subclasses, the Telosporidia and Neosporidia.
In the first, division into multiplicative elements takes place only at the end of the vegetative period.
In the second, as we have seen, growth and spore formation take place simultaneously.
Following Doflein, the Telosporidia may be divided into two orders, as follows : 1.
Coccidiomorpha: Vegetative stage continuously intracellular.
Fertilization anisogamous.
Sexual generation continuously or transiently intracellular.
2.
Gregarinida: Vegetative stage, if intracellular at all, only so at first; adults always extracellular.
Fertilization anisogamous or isogamous.
Fertilized forms always continuously extracellular.
In the Sarcosporidia, the vegetative stage is intracellular, becoming extracellular only through the destruction of the cells originally occupied.
Fertilization is anisogamous and the sexual generation is typically intracellular, becoming extracellular only by accident.
Evidently, then, so far as the main characters go, those of the Sarcosporidia are identical with those of the Coccidiomorpha.
It therefore seems allowable to place them in this group.
Doflein divides the order Coccidiomorpha into suborders, as follows: 1.
Coccidia: Sporozoites inclosed in spores.
Zygotes nonmotile, mostly intracellular.
2.
Haemosporidia: Sporozoites always free.
Zygote, as the ookinete, motile, and migrating into new cells.
Judging from Erdmann's contribution, the sarcosporidian zygote does not produce spores, but divides directly into what are possibly sporozoites.
This would place the Sarcosporidia closer to the Haemosporidia than to the Coccidia.
But the fact that the zygote is apparently nonmotile indicates that the relationship with the Coccidia is the closer.
Obviously, however, the Sarcosporidia are neither Coccidia nor Haemosporidia, but our very scanty knowledge regarding this phase of their life history prevents us from defining them in the terms used by Doflein for the two other groups.
For the present, it seems best merely to consider them to be one of three suborders making up the Coccidiomorpha.
The Sporozoa may then be reclassified as follows: Class Sporozoa.
Subclass I, Telosporidia.
Order 1, Coccidiomorpha.
Suborder A, Coccidia.
Suborder B, Haemosporidia.
Suborder C, Sarcosporidia.
Order 2, Gregarinida.
Subclass II, Neosporidia.
Order 1, Cnidosporidia.
Suborder A, Myxosporidia.
Suborder B, Microsporidia.
Suborder C, Actinomyxidia.
Order 2, Haplosporidia.
It is to be observed that the characters used by Doflein to classify the Telosporidia are not those having to do with the nature of the life history.
Thus, although the Haemosporidia have two hostwhile the Coccidia have but one, these two groups are ranked ;iclosely related suborders.
Therefore the fact that we are still in the dark as to whether the Sarcosporidia have two hosts or only one has no bearing upon what is their proper place in the classification of the Sporozoa.
With regard to this question, the probabilities are that there are two hosts.
Indeed, such an hypothesis is more or less obligatory when it comes to accounting for the wide-spread occurrence of Sarcosporidia in purely herbivorous animals, such as sheep.
As no more than an interesting speculation, it might be suggested that the second host, a carnivor, infects itself by eating the infected flesh of a herbivor.
The merozoites, released in the intestine, initiate the sexual cycle and the encysted form is discharged in the feces.
This encysted stage, ingested by a herbivor with its food, eventual ly infects the muscles and the cycle is repeated.
Analogy would lead us to suspect that the sexual cycle is, in general, confined to the carnivor; the asexual to the herbivor.
This view receives a certain amount of indirect support from the facts that whereas the purely herbivorous sheep and cattle are practically invariably infected, records of the finding of sarcosporidian cysts in the muscles of carnivorous animals are very rare.
Finally, the fact that in the mouse both the sexual and asexual cycles occur presents no particular difficulty.
Mice are omnivorous and can infect themselves either by eating the flesh of their dead fellows, or, as Negre first showed.
by the contamination of their food with the encysted fecal stage.
In conclusion, it may be mentioned that Negre's discovery is of the utmost significance when it comes to an endeavor to elucidate the life history of the Sarcosporidia.
Yet, for whatever may have been the reasons, it has been persistently overlooked or ignored and hence has never been awarded the credit to which it is entitled.
References Cited.
Bertram, A.
1892.
Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Sarcosporidien nebst einem Anhange liber parasitische Schlauche in der Leibeshohle von Rotatorien .]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
107 Pedro Miguel.
Rhamdia montaguensis ((.anther).
One example, 145 mm.
Piabucina panamensis c sill.
Three, 93 to 105 mm.
Active and difficult to secure.
Astyanax mexicanus (Filippi).
Four examples, 67 to 72 mm.
Poeciliopsis retropinna (Regan).
One example, a female, 30 mm.
long.
Bufo marinus (Linne).
One, 45 mm.
long, measured from snout to vent, with three ticks on its back.
Bufo typhonius (I.inn6).
Two small examples which agree with Ecuador material.
Length 31 and 32 mm.
from snout tip to vent.
Leptodactylus caliginosus (Girard).
Vomerine teeth in two closely approximated areas.
Eye half length of snout.
Nostril near first third in snout length.
Tympanum | of eye.
Skin smooth, except hind femoral region posteriorly, which granular.
Slight fold extends from shoulder to groin.
Color in alcohol gray-brown generally.
Broad blackish triangle between eyes.
Black band from each side of snout back, including eye and tympanum, to shoulder, and posteriorly continued as several disconnected black spots.
On each side of back, from above tympanum to groin above, black band.
Middle of back with lengthwise blackish blotches forming two distinct series on pelvic region.
Groin olive-yellow, with few dark cloudings.
Fore limbs marbled with dusky, forming a large blotch at and behind elbow.
Hind limbs mottled in more contrast with dusky, femoral and tibial regionwith several broad dark blotches as cross-bars.
Tarsi and metatarsi dusky, outer surfaces mottled or blotched with darker.
Under surface whiti-h, lips mottled with grayish.
Length 86 and 91 nam., measured from snout tip to vent.
Locality given as Corozal.
Iguana tuberculata Laurenti.
Two young examples, 247 and 251 mm.
Basiliscus basiliscus (Linne).
A female, containing eggs.
Length 107 mm.
Ameiva ameiva praesignis (Baird and Girard).
Color in alcohol largely greenish-brown on back.
Yellow line each side of back extends from eye, and another similar, though white line from lower edge of eye to groin, interspace jet-black with row of obscure whitish spots.
Black band also continued along side of tail at first, fading out behind.
Tail brownish above, mottled with dusky.
Below lower white lateral line, which most pronounced, gray shade and clouded with dusky or blackish.
Under surface of head and trunk gray-white.
Upper surface brown, sides whitish.
Limbs brownish above reticulated with black, forming two broad black lengthwise lines on hind femoral region and upper continued at first along tail basally short space, gradually fading behind.
One example, 255 mm.
Leptodeira polysticta Gunther.
One, differing a little from Gunther 's figure in not having a distinct lengthwise dark bar dividing the neck, but with a lengthwise dark brown saddle-like blotch, pale in the middle.
Length 470 mm.
Elaps fulvius (Linne).
Two examples, 502 and 528 mm.
Empire.
Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis Cope.
Two examples, 15 mm., measured from snout tip to vent.
Anolis trochilus Cope.
One example, 83 mm.
long.
Anolis lionotus Cope.
Three, 70 to 158 mm.
Nor ops auratus (Daudin).
Three, 114 to 161 mm.
Panama.
The fishes of Panama Bay have been elaborately treated by Profs.
C. H. Gilbert and E. C. Starks in 1905, so that the list here given is only supplementary.
Tachisurus steindachneri Gilbert and Starks.
Head 3| to 3|; depth 4f to 5§; D. I, 6 and I, 7; A. vi, 13 and 13; snout 2f to 2| in head; eye 5| to 5|; mouth width 2f to 3; interorbital 2|; dorsal spine If to 1§.
Palatine teeth coarsely granular, without a backward angle extending on inner edge.
Granulations or striae on head extend forward nearly opposite middle of eyes.
Fontanel extends hack as narrow groove to occipital plate.
Inner surfaces of ventral black, front edge of fin white.
Pectoral similarly blackish inside.
Upper caudal lobe little longer.
Two examples, 200 and 210 mm.
long.
They differ slightly from the figure given by Gilbert and Starks in the striae on top of the head extending more distinctly forward.
Muraena clepsydra Gilbert.
One, 595 mm.
long.
Pceciliopsis presidionis (Jordan and Culver).
Male and female, 23 and 37 mm.
Tylosurus scapularis Jordan and Gilbert.
Caudal peduncle about wide as deep, and lateral line forms slight though inconspicuous keel along each side.
Eye 7 in upper jaw, 3 in postocular part of head.
Upper jaw nearly an eye-diameter longer than lower, and not completely closing against lower posteriorly, so that distinct interval is seen between them.
D. n, 14; A. ii, 15.
Upper surface of body greenish in alcohol, especially on head.
Sides and below silvery-white.
Narrow lateral band of leaden, tapering or narrowed at shoulder and caudal base, and more or less expanded behind.
Iris silvery-white.
Fins all pale.
Length 695 mm.
Holocentrus suborbitalis Gill.
Three examples, 87 to 90 mm.
Mugil CUrema Valenciennes.
Fourteen small examples, largest 122 mm.
Caranx hippos (Unne).
Two, 111 and 175 mm.
Caranx caballus (Gunther).
One, 160 mm.
long.
Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill).
Two, 172 and 182 mm.
Centropomus unionensis Bocourt.
One example, 135 mm.
Alphestes multiguttatus (Gunther).
Two, 147 and 172 mm.
Pectoral with at least five distinct dark vertical cross-bars.
Diplectrum radiale (Quoy and Gaimard).
One, 190 mm.
Called "sand mullet."
Rypticus nigripinnis Gill.
Two small examples, 48 and 49 mm.
Xenichthys xanti Gill.
One, 162 mm.
Lythrulon flaviguttatum (Gill).
Two, 140 and 148 mm.
Anisotremus interruptus (Gill).
Four young, 30 to 54 mm.
Anisotremus taeniatus Gill.
One example, 143 mm.
long.
Bairdiella ronchus (Valenciennes).
Head 2|; depth 3|; D. X-I, n, 25; A. II, 8; scales 46 in lateral line to caudal base; snout 3 f in head; eye 4f ; maxillary 2\; interorbital 4.
Snout convexly protruding in upper profile.
Lower jaw slightly projects.
Lower teeth mostly uniserial, enlarged, conic.
Symphyseal knob distinct, surmounted by two canines.
Eye little shorter than snout.
Preopercle denticles small, larger one below directed forward.
Second anal spine 2| in head.
One example, 178 mm.
long.
Eucinostomus californiensis (Gill).
One, 83 mm.
■Gerres peruviaiius Valenciennes.
Three, 75 to 85 mm.
TJpeneus grandisquamis Gill.
Four examples, 117 to 164 mm.
Acara caeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner.
One, 148 mm.
Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch).
Series of all ages which appear to agree with the Atlantic form.
Length 38 to 102 mm.
Abudefduf declivifrons (Gill).
One example, 67 mm.
Pseudoscarus perrico (Jordan and Gilbert).
Called "parrot chub."
Color in alcohol dusky-brown generally.
Blue-green spots radiate around eye.
Jaws greenish.
Vertical fins livid dull dusky-purple, edges of dorsals and anals narrowly blue-green.
Dusky blotch at pectoral base, fin pale.
Outer ventral edge pale, rays brownish.
Iris yellowish.
Lengtih 206 mm.
Hepatus crestonis .f<>rdan and Starks.
Head 3f; depth If; D. IX, 25; A.
Ill, 24; snout l l , in head; i 4; interorbital 2|; pectoral l^j.
In alcohol largely uniform dark chocolate-brown.
Dorsals and anals blackish.
Caudal slightly paler basally.
Pectoral with broad whitish submarginal shade.
Length 103 nun.
Chaetodon humeralis (Gunther).
One example, 124 mm.
Jordan and Evermann state "3 dark hands across caudal peduncle at base of fin; caudal fin with a faint band; ventrals dark."
My example shows but a single dark transverse bar on caudal peduncle at caudal base and caudal fin with two very sharply contrasted blackish vertical bars slightly expanded medianly, and anterior much wider than any of bars on caudal.
The ventrals are whitish with two very indistinct vertical gray bars.
Pomacanthus zonipectus (Gill).
Head 3|; depth If; D. XI, 25; A.
Ill, 21; snout 3 in head; eye S\ ; interorbital 3.
Color faded in alcohol, vertical pale lines whitish.
Traces of similarly curved lines, parallel, some irregular in dark .areas between whitish lines.
Also dark areas with numerous small obscure blackish spots.
Length 125 mm.
Chastodipterus zonatus (Girard).
One example, 148 mm.
Balistes vetula Linn6.
Two, 100 and 103 mm.
long.
Spheroides annulatus (Jenyns).
Two, 49 and 94 mm.
long.
The dark spots are smaller and more numerous than in Atlantic examples of S. testudineus of the same size.
Diodon hystrix Linne.
Two examples, 122 to 125 mm.
Scorpaena mystes Jordan and Starts.
Head 2|; depth 3^; D. XII, 10; A.
Ill, 5; scales 39 to caudal base and 2 more on latter, along lateral line; 7 scales above 1.1.; 15 scales in vertical series between 1.1. and spinous dorsal origin: snout 3f in head; eye 5; maxillary 2\; interorbital 5 ; about 27 pores in lateral line to caudal base.
No supraorbital cirrus.
Slight pit below front eye edge and suborbital stay.
Length 250 mm.
-Mapo soporator (Valenciennes).
Twenty-nine examples, 25 to 122 mm.
28 ' Garmanina paradoxa (Gtinther).
Head 3§; depth 4§; D. VII, i, 11, i; A. i, 9, i; scales 15 in median series on hind part of trunk, begin opposite origin of soft dorsal; 8 scales transversely between last dorsal and anal rays; snout 4 J in head; eye 5^; maxillary 2\\ interorbital about 11.
Gill-rakers 1+8 short points with broad bases, much shorter than filaments.
Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, scarcely paler below.
About 13 pairs of deeper brownish transverse bars, from back down along side, and each 2 pairs placed closer to one another, and in places irregularly joined.
Each bar seen to be forked as a darker reticulation around a paler spot or centre, also reticulations of various extent.
Similar dark transverse bar extends down on cheek, though narrower one immediately behind eye and another on top of head before gill-opening, not extending down on side of head.
Iris with pale circle around pupil.
Ventrals blackish, edge narrowly whitish.
Fins all grayish, clouded or obscurely marked with darker.
Length 42 mm.
Microgobius miraflorensis Gilbert and Starks.
One 26 mm.
long.
Gilbert and Starks give A.
17, though their figure shows i, 10.
My example lacks the cirri about the jaws they represent, and at present the dark spots on the fins are much more contrasted.
Hypsoblennius striatus (Steindachner).
Fourteen examples, 46 to 80 mm.
Batrachoides pacifici (Giinther).
Two adults, 178 and 222 mm.
long.
Young examples differ in the absence of scales.
Gobiesox microspilus sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 2|; depth 5; D. 13; A.
9; P. 25; head width \\ its length; snout 3|; eye 6; mouth width 2|; interorbital 2f; third dorsal ray 3; third anal ray 3|; least depth caudal peduncle 4^; caudal If; pectoral 2\.
Body moderately long, depressed forward, compressed behind, convex above, flattened below, and slight median groove before anal.
Caudal peduncle compressed, short and little free.
Head large, upper profile convex from snout tip to occiput, lower nearly straight and horizontal.
Snout wide, convex over surface, length less than half its width as measured across front of eyes.
Eye ellipsoid, high, centre slightly behind first third in head length.
Eyelids not distinct, skin of head passing over.
Mouth broad, 1910.]
ii.
; upper jaw slightly protruding.
Lips broad, each fringed with lather long free dermal Maps.
Transverse groove of premaxillaries distinct, on snout above.
Teeth in one row in each jaw, simple, conic, two front ones enlarged or canine-like above.
Both jaws with anterior teeth little enlarged, and in front of lower more so, compressed or incisor-like, their tips rather broadly triangular.
Inner buccal folds broad.
Tongue broad, fleshy, depressed, free around edges.
Nostrils rather close together, above level of eye near its front edge, anterior in short fleshy tube and posterior simple pore.
Interorbital broad and slightly convex.
Opercular spine not extending through integument, concealed.
Gill-opening extends forward about opposite last § in head, Gillrakers about 6 short rudimentary points, much shorter than short gill-filaments.
Fig.
4.
— Gobiexu.c mierosfnlus Fowler.
Skin smooth.
A number of pores along lower side of head, and about fringes of lips.
Dorsal inserted about midway between centre of head and caudal base, tips of rays slightly protrude beyond connecting membranes.
Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, fin similar.
Cam hi I rounded behind.
Pectoral broad, upper rays longer, hind edge rounded, with free fold in front opposite lower base, and broad flap concealed, behind axilla, extends up from disk.
Disk large, circular, its length about \\ in head.
Margins of disk, all for broad extent, finely papillose.
Vent before anal, though slightly behind origin of dorsal.
Color in alcohol dark chocolate-brown, except lower surface of head and disk, which whitish.
Entire upper surface marked with closely set dusky spots, mostly of uniform size, and all with a more or less lengthwise disposition.
Black blotch on head about an eyediameter behind eye on its level.
From eye dark spots are darkened, to form obscure streak forward, one below and one behind.
Vertical fins largely dusky or blackish.
Dorsal with sub-basal lengthwise whitish streak, one medianly and protruded tips of rays same color.
Anal with median lengthwise paler area, protruded tips of rays whitish.
Caudal crossed by three obscure darker bands, tips of rays whitish.
Pectorals brownish.
Iris slaty, olive-yellowish circle around pupil.
Length 37 mm.
Type, No.
45,213, A. N. S. P. Panama, in a pool.
May 30, 1915.
D. E. Harrower.
Purchased.
Only the above example obtained.
This species is very closely allied with G. papillifer Gilbert from Lower California.
It differs in several respects.
G. papillifer has the teeth in both jaws biserial.
Its color is also said to be uniform dark olivaceous, and the color of the fins is different.
(Mtxpos, small; ?, sack; from the vernacular Sac-a-Lait of the typical species.)
Fundulus similis (Baird and Girard).
Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1853, p. 389.
Indianola, Texas.
Nos.
6,987 and 6,988, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of H. similis Baird and Girard.
Indianola, Texas.
From the Smithsonian Institution.
Both small examples.
Miami River (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Boca Chica Key (Fowler) and Carrabelle (M. Hebard), Florida.
Fundulus majalis (Walbaum).
Besides the large series of local or Middle Atlantic States specimens, already recorded, are others from: Florida (Bayport); South Carolina (Charleston and Hilton Head); Massachusetts (Woods Hole, Nantucket and Salem).
Fundulus punctatus Gunther.
Central Guatemala (Cope).
Subgenus FUNDULUS Lac6pdde.
Type Fundulus mudfish Lac£pede.
Form short, robust.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration, females usually paler or uniform.
Female with anal tube on first anal ray.
Anal rays of male usually with nuptial denticles during the spawning season.
Fundulus parvipinnis Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, p. 154.
San Diego, California.
No.
7,255, A. N. S. P. Cotype.
From the Smithsonian Institution (No.
938).
Fundulus heteroclitus (Linne).
Fort Macon, North Carolina (Dr. H. C. Yarrow) and Charleston, South Caolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook).
Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum).
Besides a very large series from various of the Middle Atlantic States, most of which have been listed, are examples from New York (Hudson River at Piermont, Long Beach, South Long Beach, Nassau on Long Beach and New York Harbor); Connecticut (Sachems Head and Scotts Cove near Darien); Rhode Island (Newport); Massachusetts (Woods Hole, Nantucket and Boston).
Fundulus heteroclitus badius Carman.
Prince Edward Island and Magdalen Islands, Canada.
1 Fundulus grandis Baird and Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1853, p. 389.
Indianola, Texas.
No.
7,420, A. N. S. P. Cotype.
J. H. Clark.
From the Smithsonian Institution (No.
650).
Bayport (Cope) and Carrabelle (M. Hebard), Florida.
Fundulus nisorius Cope.
Proc.
Ainer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila., XI, 1870, p. 456.
Gaboon, West Africa.
Head 3 to 3|; depth 31 to 4; D. usually i, 11, often i, 10, rarely i, 12; A. usually i, 10, often i, 9, rarely i, 8 or i, 11 ; scales usually 32, often 33, sometimes 31, 34 or 35 in lateral series medianly to caudal base, and usually 4, rarely 3 or 5 more on latter; snout 3| to 4 in 1 Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila., 15)15, p. 518. head, measured from snout tip; eye 2f to 4J; maxillary 2f to 3^; interorbital 2 to 2f.
Body rather robust, compressed, more so in male.
Head short, obtuse.
Snout depressed, length f to § its width.
Eye close to upper profile, centre near first third in head.
Mouth moderate, lower jaw obtuse, projects.
Teeth conic, fine, in bands in jaws, outer row enlarged.
Interorbital flat.
Gill-rakers 2 or 3 + 9, lanceolate, about half length of filaments.
Scales largest on top of head, smaller on breast, belly and caudal base.
Lateral line complete, inconspicuous, as single small pore on middle of exposure of each scale medianly along side.
Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base than gill-opening in adult female, much nearer latter in young and adult male.
Anal origin about opposite second branched dorsal ray base, fin much higher than dorsal.
Female without anal sheath, though with long simple tube, long as first ray.
Caudal truncate, rounded convexly behind Avhen spread open.
Pectoral not quite reaching ventral, latter not to anal.
Paired fins still shorter in adult female.
Color in alcohol, of male, brownish generally, little paler below.
Sides with about fourteen to seventeen narrow vertical bars, less than half width of exposed scales.
Also in course of each bar scattered pearly or whitish rounded spots, smaller and more crowded about caudal base.
Vertical fins dusky, with irregular and variable whitish spots, smaller on caudal, and edges of all these fins broadly whitish.
Female uniform brownish, paler on under surfaces, and without dusky or dark pectorals and ventrals of male.
Male with terminal portions of anal rays covered with little points or denticles, row to each shaft.
These absent in female, though in some females a few little points or granules on rays of dorsal fin on their outer portions.
Length 33 to 91 mm.
Nos.
7,227 to 7,233 and 7,293 to 7,303, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of F. nisorius Cope.
Gaboon, West Africa.
P. B. Duchaillu.
This very interesting species, incompletely described by Cope, is the exact African counterpart of F. heteroclitus.
It resembles the latter in almost all respects, and differs in but few minor characters, as shorter pectorals, etc.
Fundulus antillarum sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3^; depth 3f; D. i, 11; A. i, 9; P. 16; V. i, 5; scales about 34 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 23 predorsal scales; head depth at occiput If its length; head width If; fifth branched dorsal ray If; fifth branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal 1 T V; pectoral 1^; ventral 2\; 1916.]
I lit snout 3| in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 1!
: maxillary 3; interorbital 2, 1 , .
Body moderately long, also moderately depressed anteriorly, well compressed behind, back scarcely elevated.
Caudal peduncle robust, well compressed, about long as deep.
Head moderately short, wide above, upper profile uearly straight from snout tip to oeciput and less inclined than lower.
Sid.of head moderately approximated below.
Snout short, depressed, length about § its width.
Eye rounded, high or close to upper profile and its centre near first f in length of head.
Mouth rather small, lateral cleft -light, oblique.
Premaxillaries well protractile.
Maxillary extends down till close before front edge of eye.
Lips moderately fleshy.
Teeth all simple, conic, in bands in jaws, and 1 iu.
1.
— Fundulus anlillarum Fowler.
outer row enlarged and slightly curved.
Upper and lower inner buccal folds moderately wide, entire.
Tongue fleshy, depressed, elongate, end rounded and free in front.
Lower jaw robust, protrudes beyond upper, convex over surface and in profile.
Nostrils superior in front of interorbital space and front edge of eye.
Interorbital space depressed or flattened, and slight median transver-c depression over front of eyes.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined forward.
Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind edge of eye.
Gill-rakers 2+9, lanceolate, about half length of gill-filaments which slightly less than horizontal diameter of eye.
Isthmus wide.
Branchiostegals 4.
Scales moderate with concentric striae, larger on front predorsal region and top of head, and smaller on breast, prepectoral region and caudal base.
Cheek with 3 rows of scales.
Lateral line complete, inconspicuous, developed as single small pore on each exposure of scale.
Dorsal origin slightly nearer gill-opening than caudal base, branched rays about uniformly high, and extend § space to caudal base.
Anal inserted about opposite base of second or third dorsal ray, and median posterior rays longest, longer than dorsal rays, and reach f to caudal base.
Caudal apparently truncate behind, rounded as spread open.
Pectoral low, rather small, reaches about f to ventral.
Latter inserted nearly midway between front of eye and caudal base, fin reaching vent, close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish with faint olivaceous tinge, especially above.
Each scale with a rounded paler basal spot.
These spots at intervals of several scales each with pearly tint or whitish, so that traces of about a dozen vertical whitish streaks occur.
Fins brownish, dorsal and caudal little darker.
Dorsal with several large cream-colored blotches about basal portion of fin, and caudal with three irregular and obscure vertical darker cross-bars.
Iris pale yellowish.
Length 78 mm.
Type, No.
7,225, A. N. S. P. St. Martins, Danish West Indies.
Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma.
Also No.
7,226, A. N. S. P. Paratype, same data.
Head 3f; depth 4; D. i, 10; A. i, 9; scales about 31 to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 25 predorsal scales; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3|; maxillary 3; interorbital 2|.
Length 76 mm.
This example a female, and its coloration largely like the type.
Dorsal and caudal fins differ only in being uniform brownish.
Anal with a well-developed tube along its front edge but little shorter than first anal ray.
This species is very closely related to F. heteroclitus.
Compared with examples of equal size, but slight, though apparently constant, points of difference are noted.
The males of both species are quite similar, though in F. heteroclitus the white spots on the dorsal are much smaller.
As the female of F. heteroclitus is uniform brownish the female of F. antillarum differs in having the base of each scale with a whitish spot.
In proportions, measurements, etc., the two species are similar.
A large series of F. heteroclitus easily covers the structural characters.
1 first thought this species was F.fonticoh Valenciennes.
2 It is described with twelve anal rays, apparently deeper body, and possibly smaller rounded dorsal and caudal.
Valenciennes says: ' La couleur parait avoir etc un vert uniforme sur tout le corps, et je ne voia aucune tache sur les nageoires."
He also gives the following remark, which may in part refer to F. antillarum: "Une note, ajoutie a la fin de cet article, fait penser que M. Plee croyait aussi qui ce poisson habite la Martinique, car il dit: 'ce sont les poissons qu'on appelle dormeurs dans nos isle-."
Les a-t-il confondus avec de jeunes Eleotris, qui sont ainsi denommes? "
This is interesting as showing the possible occurrence of Fundulus in the Lesser Antilles, now fully corroborated by the present species.
Another species, likely closely related is F. bermudce Gunther.
3 It appears to differ in the smaller head, dorsal rays fourteen and anal rays twelve.
Later this was redescribed as F. rhizophorcc Goode, 4 with its color given as light tawny-brown, with about fifteen regular transverse bands of greenishbrown, each two scales in width and most distinct on trunk posteriorly.
No mention is made of the color of the fins.
The only remaining West Indian species is F. cubensis Eigenmann, 6 which differs entirely in its large scales (24), advanced dorsal and anal and coloration.
(Named for the Lesser Antilles.)
Fundulus hispanicus (Valenciennes).
One from Spain in poor state of preservation.
Possibly it differs largely in the more posterior position of the dorsal and anal fins, which are exactly opposite, from the American species.
It approaches Zygonectes in the large scales (29 to 32) and small dorsal (9 to 11).
Subgenus FONTINUS Jordan and Evermann.
Type Fundulus seminolis Girard.
Form long, slender.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season, otherwise of similar barred appearance.
Females with anal sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant, sometimes with denticles or tubercles on body and fins during the spawning season.
Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur).
A very large series from the Middle Atlantic States, already 2 Hid.
Nat Poiss., XVIII, 1846, p. (198) 148.
Porto Rico.
Ann.
Man.
Nat.
Hist.
London (4), XIV, 1874, p. 370.
Bermudas.
* Amer.
Jour.
Sc.
Art.
C-Si.
XIV.
1877, p. 298.
Balden Pond, Bermuda.
5 Bull.
C S. F. Com.. 1902 (1904), p. 222, fig.
1.
Rio del Pillar, Cuba.
recorded, besides examples from Massachusetts (Cambridge) ; Rhode Island (Newport); New York (Sing Sing).
Fundulus diaphanus menona (Jordan and Copeland).
Indiana; Chicago, Illinois; Grosse Isle, Michigan.
Fundulus zebrinus Jordan and Gilbert.
Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus., No.
17, 1882, p. 891 (based on Hydrargyra zebra Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, p. 60.
Tributary of the Rio Grande between Fort Defiance and Fort Union, New Mexico.
Not of De Kay 1842.)
No.
7,352, A. N. S. P., cotype of H. zebra Girard.
Coll.
Mollhausen.
Smithsonian Institution (No.
2,590).
Also a fine series from Indiana (Wabash River) ; Iowa (Silver Lake); Texas (Red River in Staked Plain from Brazos River to Texas Tuli Canyon, south of Clarendon, between Seymour and Austin, and Comanche Creek at Fort Macon).
Fundulus seminolis Girard.
Lake Kerr, Florida.
Subgenus XENISMA Jordan.
Type Xenisma stellifera Jordan.
Form long, very slender.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season, otherwise of similar finely spotted appearance.
Females with anal sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant, and anal prickly in spawning season.
Fundulus catenatus (Storer).
Virginia (Holston River), Arkansas (Eureka Springs), and Tennessee (Coal Creek in Clinch River basin) .
Fundulus stellifer (Jordan).
Xenisma stellifer Jordan, Ann.
Lye.
N. Hist.
N. Y., 1870, p. 322.
Etowah and Oostanaula Rivers, Rome, Georgia.
Nos.
20,718 to 20,720, A. N. S. P., paratypes of X. stellifer Jordan.
Rome, Georgia.
D. S. Jordan.
From E. D. Cope.
Subgenus ZYGONECTES Agassiz.
Type Poecilia olivacea Storer.
Form elongate, fusiform.
Snout short or moderate.
Jaws not produced.
Sexes unlike in coloration, at least during spawning season.
Females with anal sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond.
Males brilliant, and anal sometimes prickly in spawning season.
Dorsal and anal fins small, former distinctly inserted behind origin of latter.
Fundulus floripinnis Cope) Haplochilus floripinnis Cope.
Zool.
Wheeler's Surv.
Terr., Is?.".
(187 p. 695, PL 28, figs.
I a-b.
Colorado and Platte Rivers al Denver, Colorado!
Nos.
18,733 to 18,738, A. N. S. P., cotypes of //.
floripinnis ( !ope.
Fundulus pulvereus Evermann.
Baldwin Lodge, Mississippi.
Fundulus sciadicus Copi Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1865, p. 78.
Platte River, Nebraska.
Nos.
7,183 to 7,201, A. N. S. P. Cotypes.
Dr. W. A. Hammond.
Fundulus luciae (Baird).
A large -cries of examples from the Middle Atlantic Stales.
All but the examples obtained at Anglesea, New Jersey, on October 3, 1897, by Messrs. \V.
J.
Fox and P. Laurent, have been recorded.
Fundulus chrysotus (Gunthcr).
Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek of the St. John's River basin (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson) and the everglades at Miami River in Dade County (S. N. Rhoads), Florida.
Also an example from Beaumont, Texas.
Fundulus balboae sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 3f; depth 4f ; D. n, 8; A. i, 12; P. i, 12; V. i, 5; scales 34 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 5 more on latter; 10 scales between dorsal and anal origins; about 30 predorsal scale-: head width If its length; head depth at occiput If; snoul 3; eye 3f ; maxillary 4f; interorbital 2|; sixth branched dorsal ray If; tenth branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; caudal 1 T V; pectoral If; ventral If.
Body elongate, moderately depressed above in front, compressed behind.
Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth little less than its length.
Head depressed above, less so below, and profiles nearly straight, though lower little more inclined.
Snout broad, depressed, length | its width.
Eye large, rounded, slightly before middle in length of head, close to upper profile, and extends more on under surface of head than on upper surface.
Mouth terminal, gape not quite half way to eye.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Maxillary reaches back opposite hind nostril.
Jaws robust, protruding, and lower projecting slightly beyond upper.
Bands of fine teeth in jaws, and an outer rather wide-set row of slightly enlarged simple conic teeth.
Lower jaw rather shallow, rami not elevated inside mouth.
Liprather fleshy.
Tongue fleshy, free in front and about edges, well 424 [June, back in mouth.
Upper buccal fold moderately broad, lower narrower.
Nostrils lateral on snout above, near front of eye.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined backwards.
Gill-opening' extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge.
Gill-rakers about 1 + 7 short robust points, much shorter than gillfilaments, latter about If in eye.
Isthmus narrow.
Scales cycloid, with many concentric striae, little smaller on breast and belly, more so on caudal base.
Scales larger on head above and front predorsal region.
Lateral line imperfect and incomplete, at row of pores, one to each scale in middle of its exposure, to ventral, behind latter dropping a row of scales and then extending to caudal base.
Dorsal origin about last third in space between centre of eye and caudal base, sixth branched ray highest, and depressed fin extending Fig.
2.
— Fundulus balhoce Fowler.
back to caudal base.
Front § of anal base before dorsal or origin of fin little nearer gill-opening than caudal base, fin like dorsal, only falling slightly shorter of caudal base.
Caudal oblong, hind edge apparently slightly convex.
Pectoral small, reaches f to ventral, latter reaching anal.
Color in alcohol dark olive-brownish generally, with apparently more or less uniform ground-color.
A dark or dusky longitudinal band from mouth to eye, behind latter to gill-opening and continued to caudal base.
After gill-opening this band extends below median axis, of trunk, and its width slightly less than vertical eye-diameter.
Iris warm brownish.
Fins uniform pale brownish, except dorsal and upper part of caudal, which marked with a few rather wide-set dark brownish spots.
Length 62 mm.
Type, No.
16,728, A. X. S. I'.
Panama.
Lieutenant Fields.
Only the above example known.
It is apparently not closely related to any of the known species of the subgenus.
(Named for Balboa, Panama.)
Fundulus nottii Agassis.
Indiana; North Carolina (Wilmington); Georgia (Thomasvil Florida (Leon County and Walaka).
Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque).
F. minus Cope, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sri.
l'liila., L865, p. 7*.
Detroil River, Grosse Isle, Michigan.
No.
7,142, A. N. S. P., type of F. aureus Cope.
Illinois (Illinois River basin at Marley); Missouri; Arkansas; Indian Territory; Texas (Fort Worth).
CHRIOPEOPS subgen.
nov.
Type Lucania goodei .Ionian.
Form fusiform, elongate.
Teeth in jaws in two series, simple, conic, outer row enlarged.
Jaws short, obtuse.
Dorsal fin inserted slightly before anal origin.
Female with an anal sheath.
Differs from the other subgenera of Fundulus in the dentition, as all have the inner teeth in a fine villiform band, at least in more than one row.
It resembles certain species of Zygonectes in the black lateral band, but the anterior position of the dorsal at once distinguishes it.
Small fishes, little over an inch in length.
(Chriope, an old name for Notropis bifrenatus, and ":'">, pointed ; Zygom ctes.
> Fundulus dovii (Giinther).
Central America (Cope) .
Aplocheilus panchax (Hamilton-Buchanan).
India.
Aplocheilus macrostigma (Boulenger).
Haplochilus macrostigma Boulenger, Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist., (8) VIII, 1911, p. 26S.
Lucola River, Luculla River, and Luali River, Portuguese Congo.
Nos.
38,632 to 38,641, A. N. S. P. Paratypes of H. macrostigma Boulenger.
Luna, Luali River, West Africa.
Dr. J. W. Ansorge.
Purchased.
Aplocheilus camerouensis (Boulenger).
Gaboon.
Aplocheilus sexfasciatus (Gill).
Epiplatys sexfasciatus Gill, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1862, p. 130.
Gaboon.
Nos.
7,129 to 7,141, A. N. S. P., types of E. sexfasciatus Gill.
'Gaboon, West Africa.
P. B. Duchaillu.
Also Luali River at Lundo in Chiloango.
Aplocheilus senegalensis (Steindachner).
Africa.
Aplocheilus spilauchen (A. Dumeril).
Chiloango Town, Portuguese Congo.
Adinia multifasciata Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, p. 118.
Galveston, St. Joseph Island and Indianola, Texas.
Nos.
7,291 and 7,292, A. N. S. P., cotypes.
Indianola, Texas.
Smithsonian Institution.
Ttivulus micropus (Steindachner).
Ecuador and Pebas, Peru.
Xucania venusta Girard.
Grand Plains Bayou (U. S. F.
Com.
), Mississippi; Juniper Creek >on southwest side of Lake George (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson), Florida.
Lucania parva (Baird).
Besides a large series of local specimens from New Jersey, Delaware .and Virginia, are seven from the first-named State at Anglesea f(W. J.
Fox and P. Laurent on October 3, 1897), not previously listed.
Girardinichthys innominatus Bleeker.
Act, Soc.
Ind.
Neerl.
(Prodr.
Ich.
Arch, [nd.
), I860, pp.
Isl, 184 (on (Jirard's description without a name.
Proc.
Acad.
N Phila IS')!
), p. US.
City of Mexico.)
No.
7,605, A. N. S. P., cotype.
City of Mexico.
Collection Major W. Rich.
Smithsonian Institution.
Also seven examples from Lake Xochimilco in 1885 (E. D. Cope).
ORESTIIN.E.
Orestias cuvieri Valenciennes.Tinta, Peru, and Lake Titicaca.
Orestias pentlandii Valenciennes.
Lake Titicaca.
Orestias bairdii Cope.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1875, p. 185.
Lake Titicaca.
No.
21,554, A. N. S. P., type.
Lake Titicaca, Bolivia.
Prof. James Orton.
1873.
E. D. Cope.
This species has been merged with the preceding by Carman, though it appears to differ in the larger pectoral reaching half way to the vent, besides the much larger predorsal scales.
Orestias agassizii Valenciennes.
O. ortonii Cope, 1. c, p. 186.
Lake Titicaca.
O. frontosus Cope, 1. c. Lake Titicaca.
No.
21,557, A. N. S. P., type of 0. ortonii Cope.
Nos.
21,555 and 21,556, A. N. S. P., cotypes of 0. frontosus Cope.
Also several other examples from Peru and Lake Titicaca.
Orestias cypho sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 2f; depth 2f; D. i, 13; A. i, 13; P. I, 18; scales 35 in median lateral series to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 23?
predorsal -calcs; head width nearly equals its length; head depth at occiput If; lower jaw 3|; fifth branched dorsal ray 2f; fifth branched anal ray 2\\ least depth of caudal peduncle 2; caudal If; pectoral 1 | snout 5^ in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 5^: maxillary 3^; interorbital 3|.
Body very robust, especially anteriorly, compressed behind, atesl depth about opposite middle of pectoral.
Predorsal with vated rather stout and moderately convex median keel beginning at occiput.
Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about \ its least depth.
ffead very wide, robust, large, opercular regions swollen out 29 428 [June, that depth of head at hind preopercle edge f its greatest width.
Also prominent ridge on each side of head above opercles.
Upper profile slightly convex at first, or to occiput, then concave to predorsal ridge.
Lower profile steeply convex.
Snout wide, depressed or but slightly convex, length about § its width.
Eye small, high, front edge near first fourth in head.
Mouth vertical, commissure extending slightly below lower eye edge.
Upper jaw greatly protractile, or for space slightly greater than eye-diameter.
Maxillary vertical, extending back about half way to front of eye.
Lips fleshy.
Lower jaw vertical, convex in profile, shallow, rami not elevated inside mouth.
Teeth small, simple, inconspicuous or concealed more or less in fleshy lips, disposed as narrow short band mostly in front of jaws.
Tongue thick, fleshy, depressed, free Fig.
3.
— Orestias cypho Fowler.
around edges.
Nostrils 2 little slits, close together, above and opposite front edge of eye.
Interorbital wide and slightly convex.
Hind ridge of preopercle slightly inclined back.
Very slight median concave depression on top of head before predorsal ridge.
Gill-opening extends forward opposite middle of eye.
Gill-rakers about 10 short stumps, rudimentary.
Gill-filaments slightly longer than eye.
Isthmus narrow, gill-membranes forming broad fold across.
Branchiostegals 5.
Scales cycloid, largest on predorsal, becoming smaller on hind part of body, caudal base and lower side of trunk.
Prepectoral region scaly.
Scales on upper surface of head, predorsal and shoulders finely granular, other scales finely roughened with concentric stria?.
Cheeks with 4 rows of scales, none below preorbital.
Scales down median line of predorsal not especially enlarged.
Bases of dorsal and anal naked, also breast and median line of belly.
No lateral line.
Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than gill-opening, depressed fin not quite reaching caudal base.
Anal origin opposite base of first branched dorsal ray, depressed fin reaching :,' to caudal base.
Caudal moderately convex behind.
Pectoral broad, rounded.
If to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish with olive tinge, under surface paler or whitish.
Fins all brownish, uniform.
Iris brownish.
Length 153 mm.
Type, No.
21,920, A. N. S. P. Taken from a Permo snake from La Paz, Bolivia.
1876-77.
Prof. J. Orton.
From E. D. Cope.
Only the above example known.
It is closely related, if not identical, with 0. neveni Pellegrin, 6 but that species differs according to its description in the following respects: Head 2\; depth 3; D. 15; A.
17; P. 21; scales 32; conic teeth somewhat numerous; dorsal inserted midway between gill-opening and caudal base; pectoral 2| in head.
It agrees, however, in having the scales uniform and continuous each side of the median predorsal row, a character by which both species differ from 0. albus Valenciennes.
The latter has a naked lengthwise area each side.
(Cypho, hunchback; with reference to the predorsal keel.)
CYPRINODONTIN.E.
Cyprinodon variegatus Lac6pede.
C. gibbosus Baird and Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1853, p. 390.
Indianola, Texas.
No.
7,221, A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. gibbosus Baird and Girard.
Indianola, Texas.
Coll.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution (684).
Besides the numerous local specimens also examined and recorded, the collection contains others as follows: Connecticut (Noank); North Carolina (Fort Macon); Florida (Miami, southwestern region and Carrabelle); Alabama; Mississippi (Baldwin Lodge).
Cyprinodon variegatus riverendi (Poey).
Boca Chica and Marquesas Keys, Florida.
Cyprinodon bovinus Baird and Girard.
C. eximius Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, p. 158.
Chihuahua River, Mexico.
No.
7,223, A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. eximius Girard.
Chihuahua River, Mexico.
Coll.
Potts.
Smithsonian Institution (No.
3, 501).
'• Hull.
Soc.
Z. France, 1904, p. 9.5.
Lake Titicaca.
430 [June, Also several from Lago de Guzman, Chihuahua, Mexico (Dr. P. P. Calvert).
Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis subsp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 3; depth 2|; D. i, 9; A. i, 10; P. i, 15; V. i, 6; scales 27 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 25 predorsal scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput l£, lower jaw 3|; third branched dorsal ray \\; fourth branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal If; pectoral If; ventral 2|; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3|; maxillary 3; interorbital space 2f.
Body well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, predorsal with Fig.
4.
— Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis Fowler.
median trenchant keel and well arched before dorsal fin.
Caudal peduncle compressed, its least depth li in its length.
Head compressed moderately, upper profile more inclined than lower, and lower sides not especially converging below.
Snout short, wide, and length about § its width.
Eye moderate, high, centre about first § in head.
Jaws greatly protractile, upper at least distensible space equal to snout length.
Maxillary nearly vertical, largely concealed.
Lips moderate.
Teeth uniserial, compressed, each tricuspid and expanded terminally., Inner upper and lower buccal folds moderately wide.
Tongue fleshy, small, depressed, little free around edges.
Lower jaw slightly protruding in front, oblique to somewhat vertical, shallow, and rami not elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils close above upper front, of eye ■ .
small, simple.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Preorbital about f area • Hind preopercle edge little free and nearly vertical, entire.
Gill-opening adnate above to gill-opening close above oase of G pectoral ray, and extends forward opposite hind pupil edge, Gillmembranes widely connected across rather narrow isthmus.
Rakers about 26, short slender points about ^ length of gill-filaments, and latter equal eye.
Branchiostegals 4.
Scales rather narrowly imbricated, largest on top of head and opercles, smallest on breast and caudal base.
Enlarged humeral scale longer than eye.
Scales in 2 rows on cheek.
Lateral line obscure and incomplete, formed as short arch of few pores parallel with contour of back far as dorsal origin, a single pore on each scale.
Dorsal inserted midway between centre of eye and caudal base, median rays longest, and depressed fin extends § to caudal base.
Anal inserted about opposite base of fifth branched dorsal ray, fin extending f to caudal base when depressed.
Caudal with hind edge slightly convex.
Pectoral long, reaches back well beyond ventral origin, latter little before dorsal, and fin reaching vent, which close before anal.
Color of male, in alcohol, uniform brownish on back and upper surface of head.
Sides and lower surface whitish.
Fins all pale brownish, and except ventrals densely punctate darker as seen under a lens.
Iris pale brownish.
Length 53 mm.
Type, Xo.
20,266, A. N. S. P. Brazos River, between Seymour and Authon, Texas.
Collection of W. S. Black.
E. D. Cope.
Also large series, Nos.
20,267 to 20,324.
A. N. S. P.. paratypes, same data.
They show: Head 3 to 3|; depth 2f to 3; D. usually i, 9, rarely I, 8; A. I, 9 or I, 10; scales 25 to 29 in median lateral series to caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter; 12 to 14 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; snout 3 to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 3; maxillary 2| to 3|; interorbital 2| to 2|; length 33 to 45 mm.
Most of this series females, and differing from the male in having , six or seven vertical wide crossbars of dark brownish on trunk.
These all more or less variable.
Very pale brownish vertical streak at base of caudal.
Outer hind portion of caudal with vertical submarginal dusky streak to median rays, though hind edge of fin narrowly pale.
Often dorsal and anal ratherdark, though former mostly uniform.
Young examples colored like females, variable.
This interesting form is closely related to Cyprinodon bovinus, apparently differing in the absence of a distinct black pale-edged ocellus on upper hind portion of dorsal.
Also an example from the staked plains between the Brazos River and Tulip, Red River, Texas.
1892.
E. D. Cope.
Two from the Red River basin south of Clarenden, Texas.
E. D. Cope.
(Named for the Red River, of the most northern inland eastern region at which a member of the genus Cyprinodon has been found.)
Cyprinodon macularius Baird and Girard.
Pror.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1853, p. 389.
Rio San Pedro, Arizona.
Cyprinodon californiensis Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, p. 158.
San Diego County, California.
No.
7,219, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. macularius Baird and Girard.
Rio San Pedro, Arizona.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution (No.
992).
No.
7,220, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. californiensis Girard.
San Diego County, California.
Smithsonian Institution (No.
311).
Also an example from Salt River, in the Gila Basin, at Tempe (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Arizona.
Cyprinodon elegans Baird and Girard.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1853, p. 389.
Camanche Spring, Texas.
No.
7,222, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. elegans Baird and Girard, Camanche Spring, Texas.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution (No.
686).
Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean.
Large series from the Florida Keys, which I collected in 1904.
Lebias fasciatUS Valenciennes.
Mediterranean (Bonaparte No.
313).
Dr. T. B. Wilson.
GOODEIN.E.
Goodea atripinnis Jordan.
Lake Patscuaro, Mexico (Mexican expedition 1890).
Characodon variatus T. H. Bean.
Rio Verde at Rascon, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
PCECILIIN^.
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard).
Heterandria affinis Baird and Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1854, p. 390.
Rio Medina and Rio Salado, Texas.
G. holbrooki Girard, Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila., 1859, p. 61.
Palatka, Florida.
 i > YEAF IS Fig.
2. eggs.
Food seems to be in most places abundant.
The snails have been observed to be limited in number by the following factors : (1) Cannibalism within the egg capsule, only ten to twelve hatching out of 300-400 eggs.
(2) Limit to the number that can take refuge in cracks in rocks and yet get enough to eat.
(3) Fish, such as pollack, will gobble up any stragglers.
(4) Half-grown snails, ones too big for the pollack, are used by herring gulls as food, the empty shells being regurgitated.
■ ■ (5) Very large specimens are carried by the gulls to a height and dropped on any near-by flat rock in the same way as the gulls treat both sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus) and welks {Buccinum).
Only the largest Purpura will break and only the largest are collected for this purpose.
(6) Certain ones seem to be parasitized by a sporocyst, but this was not investigated.
(7) Accidents, such as a surf heavy enough to move the rocks on which the animals live, may destroy others.
In such habitats few if any are found.
The maximum size of these rocks may in exposed places be boulders two to three feet in diameter, while in very sheltered places Thais will be found on pebbles two inches in diameter.
The limit is obviously determined by wave action.
(8) Ice probably destroys others, as they are not found in places where shore ice can accumulate.
(a) In Maine they are not abundant in shallow coves that freeze up solid in the winter time.
(b) Their geographical distribution also seems to indicate that sand beaches are a barrier, as Thais lapillus is not found west of Montauk Point.
On Long Island Sound the barrier has not been determined.
Both Balanus and Mytilus being found west of Stamford, Conn., the most westerly recorded station for Thais, and the shore is still rocky.
In the north shore ice seemed to form the barrier See map, fig.
3.
Various adaptations are at once manifest on examining this animal: (1) The strong shell, so strong that a drop from a height will not always break it.
(2) The strong foot, which makes dislodgment from its substratum difficult.
(3) Its habit of seeking shelter under rocks and fucus.
(4) The method of egg-laying, with its protection of the young until they are able to care for themselves, although if but two and a quarter per cent, of these laid hatch, those two and a quarter per cent, are almost sure to hatch.
Method.
As each station was visited, from 200 to 500 shells were collected when Thais was abundant.
In some places they literally covered every inch of the rock.
In other places they were so rare that a careful search of a quarter of a mile of beach would often disclose but two or three.
Each collection as made was placed in a bag made of mosquito netting.
While still alive the snails were sorted into the dozen or 1916.]
n:» so groups of the principal varieties.
The number in each group was tabulated.
For future reference the bag of snails was preserved in a tub of formalin.
A study of the color varieties seems to show that there are a number of colors and patterns that may be combined together in any sort of way.
These are as follows: (1) Pure white shells that show no trace of color.
(2) Purple.
The color in this ease is diffuse through the shell, but is darker within the aperture.
Fig.
3.
— Map of the North Atlantic Ocean showing the distribution of Thais (Purpura or Xucclla) lapillus.
(After Cooke, Proc.
Mai.
Soc.
London, vol.
II, p.
193.)
The cross-hatching shows the occurrence of T. lapillus.
The southern barrier to T. lapillus is no1 clear, but the northern barrier is obviously the presence of ice on the shore (3) Chestnut.
This color may be pure quite often, but it isusually combined with purple, forming a chocolate, or with yellow,.
forming olive.
(4) Yellow is a color which, when uncombined with one of the others, makes the shell very conspicuous on the rocks.
Owing to its relative rarity and to its being so conspicuous, it often appears in shell collections in proportions that are misleading.
Only by collecting all the snails from a given locality can this be avoided.
(5) Dilute.
Every one of the colors mentioned above may appear in a dilute in contrast to its intense form.
(6) White lip of the apperture is quite common in some localities.
In fact, purple is rarely found not associated with a trace of lighter color on the lip.
This white lip may be combined with all colors and dilutions.
(7) Narrow stripes.
In many shells about ten narrow white stripes are found on any color background.
'These are sometimes associated with the ridges which appear on many shells.
(8) Wide stripes of white, usually two in number, often appear.
The widest stripe equals two or three of the narrow ones and the smaller stripe is double the width of the narrow ones.
The widest stripe is always posterior to the narrower stripe.
(9) Spot of purple on the columella.
This is rare at Mount Desert, but very common at Rye Beach, New Hampshire.
(10) Imbricata.
A fluting of the ridges of the shell gives rise to the variety called by Lamarck imbricata.
Apparently each one of the ten characters recognized may be combined with any other.
If this is so there must be 1,103 varieties.
Not that many varieties have been found.
This is due to the fact that one cannot distinguish certain combinations from one another.
As an example, let us consider the case of the colors alone.
We have purple, chestnut, yellow, and white.
There are eight possible combinations of these: white, purple, chestnut, yellow, purple-chestnut, purple-yellow, chestnut-yellow and purple-chestnut-yellow.
These last four are shades of olive and chocolate, and cannot be distinguished easily from one another.
If we combine these four color combinations into one group and omit the white lip and purple spot on the columella, we will reduce the possible number of variations to be recognized from 1,103 to 33.
Twenty-eight of these thirty-three varieties have been recognized.
However, there are five that are so rare that they were not discovered in a collection of six thousand shells when they were particularly sought after.
These were narrow stripe dilute yellow, wide stripe narrow stripe yellow, wide stripe narrow stripe dilute yellow, narrow stripe dilute olive, and wide stripe dilute olive.
The yellows which contribute to the olive color and the dilute are much rarer than any of the others, so it is no wonder that they are the ones that would be lacking in combinations.
It is obviously impossible to attempt to correlate all the known varieties with environmental factors, so the writer has for the sake of convenience reduced still further the number of groups.
The particular groups recognized are as follows: (1) White; that is, pure white.
(2) Light — pure white, together with intense and dilute chestnut with white lip.
The outer layer of the shell of these is white.
(3) Dark — chestnut and purple in all their combinations.
(4) Yellow — pure yellow.
(5) Striped— both narrow and wide stripe in all their combinations and color.
(6) Imbricated — in all the combinations of patterns and colorIn the tables that follow the number of snails found in each group is stated in per cent, of all the snails in each collection from a given station.
The Relation of the Varieties to the Environment.
The base for this study was Greenings Island, an island locat< d between Northeast and Southwest Harbors in the mouth of Somes Sound.
It is triangular in shape, with a perimeter of about two and a quarter miles.
The main mass of the island is composed of till, which at one time formed the terminal moraine of the continental glacier before it retired from Somes Sound.
This till is protected from rapid wave erosion by outcrops of reddish granite at the east and west end of the island.
This granite is cut in several places by broad basalt dykes which run in a general north and south direction.
Under wave erosion the till between the outcrops of solid rocks has given material to form a boulder-strewn beach and in favorable places the finer products have given rise to pebble and sandy beaches.
On the west or more sheltered side of the island between the granite outcrops are a number of muddy coves.
On this small island we have all the principal Littoral associations present.
The distribution of these are found in fig.
4.
This figure is a diagram of the shore of Greenings Island, with the vertical scale very much exaggerated.
It has been made as though the shore were cut at the northwestern point and folded out so that this northwestern point appears at each end of the diagram.
The character of the shore is indicated.
The island as a whole is protected from heavy surf by outlying islands, but the eastern end is exposed to the ocean swell from both the south and cast, and at times of stormisubject to quite a surf.
The northeast shore and south shore are relatively unprotected at the east end, but become more protected toward the west.
On the diagram the per cent, of pure white shells are placed in the locality in which the collection was made.
An inspection of this figure will show that the most unprotected portion has the lighest colored snails, while the portion of the island 448 [June, <9 III 111  o u fi3oy >ovig- J.NIOJ /AN 0„ o5»oo7Q «&?
OfoOf :i •:o: '3 °0^O b •;;,-.. , ," | o UJ § I CO. O D o-3 fen HI 2 C § 4i 03 +^ r£ --i P o C » O C3 .—.
— « +s f-i if oo ° t; > c as ?J ,c i3 on S C 83  ,£ > O 0) c o CO c3 O as S 03 -C J5 E-^ E o © g §.
*§ .-< TO *^ in CO cj t3 o S O N >h += as -a cc> ^ — ~ o & ^^ — ^ ^ J2  .-.
n -4-5 ^ 4J 03 3 ^ ^^ C XI o ^-^ , o tn §1« 83 03 al-Q 83 *^ C ^^ d.22 03 ^3 03 ° 2 O 5 , ib oi » i ^ 03 03 |.Q bfi^ -2 % 03 ^ rf g C »^ • 03 a S c ag h4 ho subject to the smoothest water has the darkest.
This difference is very striking and the intermediate stations show intermediate ratios.
This has led the writer to classify the shores according to the wa\ These are arbitrary divisions and of course every intergradation is found, but in most cases there is very little hesitation how a given -i ation should be described.
If a great uncertainty exists, the station was placed in both classes.
Sea cliff or surf exposed to the open sea.
An ordinary row boat can practically never land with safety.
Bay exposed to a moderate surf during high winds.
Except at those times a small boat can easily land on the shore without danger of accident.
Harbor so smooth that a row boat can practically always make a landing.
In the tables which follow the stations nearest together are always compared.
Table I. CondiStation No.
of Locality.
tion.
No.
Individuals.
Lt. White.
Bakers Id Surf.
23 65 6.1 Bay.
24 167 20.7 6 Seal Harbor Surf.
54 176 2.8 Bay.
56 34 55.6 44 Cranberry Id Surf.
10 319 30 4.3 • Surf.
11 195 59 9.7 Bay.
13 204 15 5.7 • We can conclude that in general the snails on the most exposed situations are darker than those found in the bay.
Table II.
CondiStation Xo.
of % Locality.
tion.
No.
Individuals.
Lt. White.
G — ngsId | a j bo , 3?
lit S 1 2 1!
BuckelId gSo, iS Hi % % Bear Id Bay.
43 277 24 12| Harbor.
44 6< 10§ H Oronold Bay.
19 55 11 7 Harbor.
18 184 50 2, Southwest Harbor.
Bay.
37 194 29| 19 Harbor.
36 196 I" I Harbor.
35 273 25£ 11 Harbor.
47 172 14$ 6J 450 [June, If we combine the conclusion from Table I with Table II we see that snails in the exposed positions tend to be dark as well as those in the sheltered places, while those in the bay shore tend to be the lighter colored.
The following table includes the results of collections made at stations separated by no barrier, near together, but on a substratum of different colored rocks.
The numerous black basalt dykes that everywhere cut the red granite make a number of collections of this sort possible.
Only a very few of the possible ones have been studied.
Table III.
Locality.
Greenings Id., east end.
Condition.
Rod rocks, 1000 ft, to Sta.
2, No.
of Station.
25 No.
of Indiv.
316 % Lt. 57 % White.
34 % Yellow.
6.3 Black rocks, 20 ft. to Sta.
50.
2 516 44 21 Black rocks, 500 ft. to Sta.
21.
50 160 37 22 Red rocks, 21 164 47 32 .6 Greenings Id., southwest end.
Red rocks, 200 ft. to Sta.
28.
31 333 f 10 1.5 2.1 Black rocks, 50 ft. to Sta.
30.
28 247 14 6.7 1.2 Black rocks, 30 289 2.9 .4 3.8 Suttons Id.
Red rocks, 110 ft. to Sta.
8.
9 159 35 2.5 7.5 Red rocks, 150 ft. to Sta.
7.
8 135 28 2.2 31.8 Black rocks.
7 123 19 18.7 In general, more light-colored snails are found on the red rocks than on the black rocks.
The association of yellow forms with the environment is inconclusive.
There does not seem to be any correlation from these few cases.
Thirty-three collections from red rocks average 4% yellow.
Fifteen collections from black rocks average 4.7% yellow.
In this region there are occasional outcrops of a banded rock, a chlorite schist.
That there might be a correlation between striped forms and schist is a possibility that may be investigated.
The collections from the red granite given in the table are those made nearest to the chlorite schist.
This comparison was not in mind when the collections were made, so the stations are often several miles apart.
Table IV.
Locality.
Substratum.
Striped Shells.
Blue Hill Hay Chlorite schisl l.l Red granite Western Way ......Chlorite schisl 27 % Red granite 1 (avrratic oi Is collect ions from this region) 1 1.-1% Western Way Chlorite schist 27 ' , Nearest Granite Station Red granite 18.
")', The distance apart of the stations introduces so many other factors that with such meagre data no conclusions can be drawn.
The writer expects that the results are really negative.
The relative proportions of the imbricated forms from different localities are as follows : In the upper bays the water is much warmer than near the ocean.
This warmth is indicated at Blue Hill by bathhouses being located along the beaches.
Xone of the resorts farther down the bays have any, the water being too cold for bathing in the bay in those places.
The upper bays are relatively shallow and there are muddy spots found on the rocky beaches between the rocks.
Five stations in this region had imbricata ranging from 38% to 96%.
In the middle bay region of Blue Hill Bay the water is deep and the rocky shores are clean.
Xo imbricata were found in the three stations in this region.
The western side of lower Blue Hill Bay is shallow, with many islands and ledges.
Among these islands there are many mud flatand the same conditions are found on the upper bay.
Five stationhad imbricata ranging from 9% to 30%.
Near the islands separating the lower bay from the ocean the water is, in general, deep and the rocky shores clean.
Five stations, 0-5^% imbricata.
On the outer islands the surf, of necessity, keeps the rocks free from sediment.
Two stations, 17-57%.
In Somes Sound environmental conditions similar to those in Blue Hill Bay are found.
The rocks are muddy in the harbors near mud flats and clean where wave action is possible and the water ideep.
If we except two stations at the Southwest Harbor steamboat wharf, where the ratio of imbricata was 19% and 19.2%, respe ively, the average of thirty-five stations containing 7,119 individuals 1 Of these eighteen collections, four had over _'. '
, striped, one had ■'•.
was only .47%.
The largest number found was but 3|% at any one station and that was on the rocks of a muddy harbor.
The station in Somes Harbor farthest away from the ocean had but .6% imbricata.
That there are other geographical factors is shown by the rarity of imbricata in the Somes Sound region.
Very few are found in exposed situations on the Cranberry Islands and on Seal Harbor Head, situations exposed to the full effort of the surf.
Except for a colony at the Southwest Harbor steam-boat wharf, in the whole Somes Sound region they are indeed rare.
Out of 2,765 shells collected on Greenings Island but three were imbricated and these three were found at one station on the muddy west side of the island.
However, in general, we can say that the imbricated forms are found in greatest abundance in exposed situations, as Duck Island and Long Island, and also in the most sheltered positions.
Most of the varieties found in the Atlantic are also found in the forms inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean.
Dall 2 reports that the lamellated forms of Thais in that region are found best developed in sheltered harbors.
The Atlantic lamellated forms we have seen may occur in sheltered as well as in exposed situations.
As Thais is found in both the Balanus and the Mytilus Zones, is there any difference between collections made close together but in different zones?
The an.swer to this question is summed up in the following table (Table V) compiled from collections made but a few feet apart, but in different zones.
Table V. ImbriLocality.
Zone.
Sta.
Lt. Wt.
Yel.
St. cata.
Greenings Id., eastern point Balanus.
2 44.5 21.3 ?
Mytilus.
50 37.5 22.5 14.4 ,Steam-boat wharf, S. W. H Balanus.
37 29.5 19.
17.5 1.5 19.0 Mytilus.
47 14.5 6.4 4.1 37 19.2 Stanley House wharf, S. W. H Balanus.
35 25.3 11 2.2 4.0 Mytilus.
34 21.4 4.8 5.3 (1) There are more light forms in the white Balanus Zone than in the dark Mytilus Zone.
(2) There are fewer yellow forms in the dark Mytilus Zone.
(3) Striped forms not conclusive.
(4) Imbricated forms not affected.
2 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus.
t vol.
49, pp.
557-572.
1916.]
natural sciences of philadelphia.
153 Natural Selection.
Natural selection, we can assume, is most severe on Little Duck Island.
Tliis little island, lying four miles out at.
sea, is exposed to the surf on every side.
The herring gull, one of the chief enemies of adult Thais, has a rookery on the island, and every summer thousands of birds roost there at night and have their nests.
Everywhere regurgitated Thais shells cover the rocks, which tell a story of a struggle for existence.
In collecting on this island for two hours but four hundred and twenty-nine living snails were found.
These were discovered at the lower edge of the Mytilus Zone.
All had been picked off the rocks above by the gulls.
This collection is chiefly notable in containing a very large proportion of dark individuals, only 1.1 per cent, white were found.
Nineteen per cent, were imbricated.
It can be said with justification that where the struggle for existence is greatest on the exposed islands and the muddy harbors selection tends to preserve the dark-colored and the lamellated forms.
Conclusions.
A study of the color varieties leads one to the conclusion that they are hereditary and that we are dealing with things that are probably unit characters.
Even the development of lamella?, as in imbricata, are not modifications caused by induction that is caused by the direct action of the environment.
As there are great differences between the ratio of the color varieties present in different localities, we assume that natural selection is acting.
In the bay environment conditions are at an optimum.
No mud film covers the Mytilus, and Balanus forms crusts over the rocks an inch to an inch and a half thick.
Here Thais is most abundant.
Five hundred can be gathered in ten minutes or even less.
A handful can be gathered at one scoop.
In the surf environment the barnacles do not form such thick crusts.
On the harbor shore ice destroys the barnacles in the winter and a mud film covers the mussels.
So that the barnacles are usually small and far apart, while the mussels are separated by mud from the rocks.
Sand and mud are barriers to Thais.
Although the surf environment and the harbor environment are the antithesis of one another, yet they have many effects on Thais that are similar.
These effects are as follows: (1) The curve of growth, fig.
2, shows that those in the surf environment at a given age are smaller than those from the bayenvironment.
(2) There is a tendency toward dark individuals.
(3) There is a tendency toward lamellated forms.
These studies show that natural selection has some determining action on the color varieties present.
(1) It has been shown that the color of the rocks, whether dark or light, has an effect.
(2) It has been shown that the white barnacle-covered rocks contain more light-colored ones than those on the mussel bed but a few feet away.
(3) It has been pointed out that those living on rocks near mud flats are darker than on the more exposed points of the same islands.
The present study must leave the question of the relation of the yellow forms and the striped forms to the color of their substratum yet unsettled.
In general, however, there is a relation between the color and the environment.
This relation is caused by natural selection and not by the direct action of the environment.
List of Literature.
Beard, J.
1S99.
Principles of Animal Development.
I.
The Whelks Egg.
Nat, Sci., XIV, pp.
131-137.
Blaney, D. 1904.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist., Vol.
XXXII, No.
2.
Carpenter, W. 1857.
On the Development of Purpura.
An Mag.
Nat, Hist,, 2d Series, Vol.
XX.
Cooke, A. H. 1895.
Cambridge Natural History, Vol.
Ill, The Mollusks, pp.
69, 90.
Cooke, A. H. 1915.
Proc.
Mai.
Soc.
London, p. 193.
Glaser, O.
C 1905.
Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Fasciolaria tulipa (var.
distans), Zeit f. wiss.
Zool., Bd.
LXXX, p. 80.
Gould, A., and Binney, W. G. 1869.
Invertebrates of Massachusetts, 2d Ed., Boston, pp.
360-362.
King, L. A. L., and Russell, E. S. 1909.
A Method for the Study of the Animal Ecology of the Shore.
Proc.
Rov.
Phvs.
Soc.
of Ed., Vol.
XVII, pp.
225-253.
Pelseneer, P. 1904.
Le Mode de Nutrition des Embrvons de Purpura lapillus.
Cong.
Zool., VI, pp.
343-345.
Robert, A.
1902.
Recherches sur le developpement des Troques.
Arch.
Zool.
Exp., 3 ser., X, No.
3.
Shelford, V. 1913.
Animal Communities in Temperate America.
Univ.
oi Chicago Press.
Sumner, F. B., Osburn, R, C, and Cole, L. J.
1911.
A Biological Survey ol the Waters of Woods Hole and Vicinity.
Bull, of the Bureau of Fisheries, Vol.
XXXI.
Walter.
1910.
Variations in Urosalpinx.
Am.
Nat., Vol.
XLD , No.
o26 r October.
NEW GENERA.
AND SPECIES OF GASTROPODA FROM THE UPPER CRETACEOUS.
1 BY BRUCE WADE.
The extent of the Gastropod fauna discovered in the Upper Cretaceous of Tennessee and the remarkable state of preservation of the hitherto unknown generic types warrant the present preliminary account of some of the more interesting.
The locality is on Coon Creek, in the northeastern part of McNairy County, in west-central Tennessee, and a somewhat detailed account has been published recently in the Johns Hopkins Circular.
The horizon is in the lower part of the Ripley formation and hence somewhat older than the classic Owl Creek fauna of the Ripley of Tippah County, Mississippi.
2 Family CANCELLARIID^E.
Genus MATAXA gen. now Etymology: (j.dra^a } cocoon.
Type: Mataxa elegans sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size and thickness; spire obtuse, its altitude less than half the entire length of the shell ; protoconch large and smoothly polished, the earliest volutions for the most part submerged and increasing rapidly in size, thrice-coiled in the type-species; conch solid and slightly glazed, paucispiral, external sculpture subdued, axial sculpture subdued or absent; aperture broadly lenticular and produced anteriorly in a comparatively long recurved canal; outer lip expanded and dentate internally; parietal wall widely and heavily glazed; columella marked by two strong oblique plaits situated far in and behind two or more marginal plaits.
This genus is proposed for a species represented at Coon Creek by perfectly preserved elegant shells and a species Narona eximia, 1 Published by permission of Dr. A. II.
Purdue, State Geologist of Tennessee.
2 The writer wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Prof. E. \Y.
Berry and Dr. J.
A. Gardner, of the Johns Hopkins University, under whose guidance this work was done; to Dr. W. H. Dall and Dr. T. \\ .
Stanton, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and especially to Dr. L. \Y.
Stephenson, of the latter organization, who has been engaged for several years in the areal, stratigraphic, and faunal studies of the Cretaceous of the Embayment region.
described and figured by Stoliczka 3 in 1867 from South India and referred to the Cancellariidse.
It differs from Cancellaria, in general, by the development of a well-defined canal, by its lack of sharp and conspicuous cancellate sculpture, and further by its less acuminate spire.
It differs from Narona, a subgenus of Cancellaria, in having a longer canal, a spire less acutely elevated, an anterior columellar plait more elevated than the posterior, instead of less so.
Probably Mataxa is nearer the rare recent subgenus Massyla* than any other form in the genus Cancellaria, but in this comparison, too, there are generic and time differences so great that it seems advisable to assign the Tennessee and South Indian forms to a new genus.
Mataxa differs from Massyla in possessing a thicker, stouter and more solidly built shell; in having a comparatively long recurved canal, and further in nuclear characters.
The protoconch of Massyla is trochoid, while in the nucleus of Mataxa the early volutions are for the most part submerged.
Mataxa elegans sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII, figs.
1, 2, 3.
Description.
— Shell of medium size, ovate in outline; spire less than half the entire length of the shell; whorls of conch three and a half in number; protoconch large, smooth and obtuse,' thrice coiled, the first and second volutions for the most part immersed and coiled in a single plane, the final whorl of the protoconch moderately elevated, increasing rapidly in size; surface of conch slightly glazed and inconspicuously sculptured; axials reduced to fine incrementals and one or two exaggerated resting stages; spiral sculpture of low, broad, flattened bands, eight in number upon the penultima of the type, the two posterior the widest and separated from one another by a wide and rather deep sulcus; body spirals very obscure, increasingly so toward the aperture, more than 30 in number, interspaces wider than the spirals and very shallow, excepting directly in front of the suture; suture impressed; aperture more than half the entire length of the shell, lenticular in outline and produced anteriorly into a comparatively long canal; outer lip marked internally by 10 or 12 regularly spaced Urate denticles; columella reinforced with two rather strong oblique folds a little less than half way between the base of the body and the anterior extremity of the aperture and a less prominent marginal fold and occasionally a fourth feeble plication 3 Stoliczka, F., Cretaceous Eauna of South India, Geol.
Surv.
India, p. 166.
PI.
XII, 1867.
4 Adams, H. and A., Genera of Recent Mollusca, 1855, vol.
I, p. 278. behind the margin; anterior fasciole rather short, moderately wide, emarginate at the extremity.
Dimensions.
— Altitude, 23.4 mm.
; maximum diameter, 13 mm.
; spiral angle, 57°.
This form is well characterized by its somewhat buccinoid outline and rather low, obtuse spire, subdued spiral sculpture, the slightly flaring outer lip and plicate inner lip.
This species is represented in the Coon Creek collection by two perfect specimens which are remarkable for shells as old as the Cretaceous on account of their state of preservation.
The individuals possess a certain freshness of appearance and shell-color that remind one of recent gastropods lately recovered from the water.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Cood Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Family VOLUTID^E.
Geuns TECTAPLICA gen. nov. Etymology: tecta, hidden; plica, fold.
Type: Tectaplica simplica sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size, thick and strong; rudely biconic in outline; spire about one third the entire length of the shell; apex acute; protoconch broken away, scar small; whorls very much appressed; sculpture dominantly axial ; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly into a slightly bent canal; outer lip simple; inner lip callous; parietal wall glazed; columella marked by three weak but well-defined folds, terminating far within the margin of the aperture.
This genus is well characterized by a thick, strong and simple shell which has a columella marked by feeble folds.
It is one of the most primitive of the Volutes and may be considered as ancestrally related to Volutilithes.
It differs from Volutilithes in having a less elongate spire, which is flattish on the sides and not interrupted by pronounced shoulders.
Volutilithes is typically spinose and has an inner lip usually well excavated and marked by prominent folds, which extend well out on the inner lip.
Tectaplica simplica sp.
nov. PL XXIII, fig.
4.
Description.
— Shell of medium size, biconic in outline; spire acuminate, less than one third the entire length of the shell; whorlvery closely appressed.
six in number on conch; axial slopes flattish: protoconch broken away, -car small; external sculpture dominantly axial, consisting of ten prominent broadly rounded costae increasing toward the aperture, crossed by very many faint spiral ridg summit of costse unmarked by lirse; posterior fasciole indicated by the weakening of the axial sculpture; sutures inconspicuous, aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly into a long canal; outer lip simple; inner lip callous and parietal wall glazed, callus concentrated just below the posterior commissure of the aperture; columella marked by three well-defined but feeble folds terminating within the aperture; posterior fasciole indicated by abrupt constriction of incrementals.
Dimensions.
— Altitude, 35 mm.
; maximum diameter, 13 mm.
; spiral angle, 59° 20'.
This very simple, primitive Volute is represented in the present Coon Creek collection by a single individual.
The folds of this form terminate so far within the aperture that it is necessary to section the spire in order to observe the columellar plaits.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee: Genus DRILLUTA gen. nov. Etymology: A contraction of .the generic terms Drillia and Voluta.
Type: DriUuta communis sp.
nov.
Shell strong and fusiform; spire elevated; whorls numerous, increasing slowly in diameter; protoconch very small and smooth; sculpture dominantly axial, the costse interrupted in front of the sutural line by a well-defined but rather narrow fasciole; aperttire lenticular, produced anteriorly into a long, gently recurved canal; outer lip broadly arcuate, simple within; inner lip calloused; columella bearing one well-defined oblique fold, frequently with one or two minor folds behind it, all of which evanesce before reaching the aperture.
This genus includes a well-defined and widely distributed group of the Volutidse, some of which are undescribed and some that have been described have been variously assigned to such genera as Drillia, Voluta, Fasciolaria and Fusus.
DriUuta may be readily separated from Drillia by the absence of a posterior siphonal notch and further by the presence of columellar plaits on the Volute.
The typical Voluta has a lower spire and numerous transverse folds.
Fasciolaria has a more inflated body whorl and is not characterized by a well-defined posterior fasciole as is the case with DriUuta.
Fusus on account of its smooth columella cannot be confused with DriUuta.
There are two well-defined groups among the Drillutce, so it seems advisable to separate this group into two sections.
Section A.
New section.
Type: Drilluta communis sp.
nov.
This section is characterized by shells of met limn size with well rounded axials and a variable number of columella plaits which terminate within the aperture.
The spiral sculpture is very fine on the spiral whorls and young individuals but well-defined on i anterior part of the body of adult individuals, and lacking on the posterior part of the older whorls of such individuals.
This section is proposed to include besides the Coon Creek species the form "Drillia ?
distans" Conrad 5 from Owl Creek, a closely related species from Corsicana, Texas, and a poorly preserved specimen from Brightseat, Maryland.
The descriptions and figures of Voluta lativittata Griepenkerl 3 and Voluta canalifera (Favre) G. Muller 7 indicate generic and sectional relations nearer to Section A of Drilluta than to any other forms that have been found in the literature.
Drilluta communis sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII, figs.
.5 and 6.
Description.
— Shell of medium size and fusiform in outline: spire elevated, its altitude approximately one-half the entire length of the shell : apical angle higher on the posterior part of the spire, becoming slightly lower on the younger whorls; protoconch very smooth and trochoid, coiled about three times; whorls of conch closely appressed and eight in number; both axial and spiral sculpture developed, the former dominant, axial costse rounded and abruptly elevated, 11 to 17 in number to the whorl, 14 on the penultima of the type, costae rlexuous, uniform in strength from the posterior fasciole to the anterior suture and a little less than half way down to the base of the body on the ultima; fasciole narrowed, indistinctly marked on the early whorls, defined in the later whorls by the abrupt disappearance of the axial costse; spiral sculpture of fine crowded impressed lines on apical whorls, becoming faint and almost disappearing on the medial part of older whorls, but reappearing as coarse, impressed lines on slope of body whorl, becoming faint and disappearing on anterior fasciole; suture impressed; body whorl sloping down smoothly into a broad pillar; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly into a very feebly recurved canal; inner lip callous; outer lip simple; columella marked by one well-defined fold and one or two weaker posterior 5 Conrad, T. A., Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci., Philadelphia, 2d ser., vol.
IV.
p. pi.
46, fig.
49, 1860.
•Griepenkerl, O., 1889, Palaeonlologische Abhandl., Band IV.
Befl ■">, p. 93 (395), Taf.
viii, fig.
1, 1889.
7 Muller, ('■., 1899, Abhandl.
d. h'd-i.
Preus.-geol.
Landesanstalt, neue Folge, Hefl 25, p. 124, Taf.
xvi, figs.
L3, I l. 31 folds, all of which evanesce before reaching the aperture, plications invisible in the aperture.
Dimensions.
— Altitude, 62 mm.
; length of aperture, 31 mm.
; maximum diameter, 20 mm.
; spiral angle, 40° on posterior whorls, decreasing to 25° on anterior whorls.
This species is one of the most abundant and best preserved univalves at Coon Creek.
It shows a considerable range in size and external ornamentation.
Some of the young individuals exhibit a fine spiral sculpture over the entire length of the shell.
The number of columellar plaits is variable.
These terminate far within the body whorl, distant from the margin of the aperture, and in many individuals are almost entirely obscured, although they are readily revealed by sectioning the spire.
A comparison of this form with two other members of the section of the genus, one from Owl Creek, the type locality of "Drillia ?
distans" Conrad and the other from Corsicana, Texas, indicates that the Coon Creek species is intermediate between those cited.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Section B.
New section.
Type: Drilluta major sp.
nov.
This section is characterized by a large, much elevated and elaborately sculptured shell.
The whorls are abruptly shouldered.
The posterior shoulder is marked by spinous regularly spaced varixlike projections.
It is proposed for a well-defined group of Drillutce which include, besides the Coon Creek species, a species from Owl Creek and another from Brightseat, Maryland, which has been questionably referred to Fasciolaria* on account of the imperfect character of the material.
The description and figures of Voluta magnified Griepenkerl 9 and Voluta (Volutilithes) subsemiplicata (d'Orbigny) G. Mi'iller 10 present generic and sectional relations which suggest this section of Drilluta.
Drilluta major *pnov. PI.
XXIII, figs.
7 and 8.
Description.
— Shell thick and large, fusoid in outline; whorls closely appressed, seven in number and increasing slowly in size; apex 8 Gardner, J.
A., Md.
Geol.
Surv., 1916, Cretaceous, Upper, p. 438, pi.
xiv, fig.
11.
9 Griepenkerl, O., 1889, Palaeontologische Abhandl., Berlin, Band IV.
Heft 5, p. 94 (396), Taf.
viii, fig.
2.
10 Mliller, G., 1899, Abhandl.
d. Kon.
Preus.
geol.
Landesanstalt, neue Folge, Heft 25, p. 123, Taf.
xvi, figs.
10-18-21. acute, broken away, but protoconch as indicated by the scar probably very small; whorls of spire slightly flattened dorso-ventrally, constricted posteriorly, ultima merging smoothly into a wide pillar; external ornamentation quite coarse and elaborate: axial sculpture of rounded quite strongly elevated costae waving backward along the shoulder, 11 to 14 to the volution, costae becoming shorter and less prominent on approaching the aperture, on young whorls costae reach from posterior fasciole to anterior suture, but become shorter anteriorly and occur only along the shoulder of the whorl: posterior part of whorl constricted and marked by a narrow posterior fasciole set with closely spaced spinose, varix-like processes, most of these processes broken away in type; spiral sculpture absent on first three apical whorls, becoming more prominent anteriorly until conspicuous on body whorl; more than thirty strongly elevated spirals on body whorl, spirals more widely spaced on medial portion of body whorl ; spirals along medial portion of body somewhat arcuate on type with most gentle slope anteriorly; body w T horl sloping gently into a broad pillar; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal; inner lip calloused, parietal wall thinly washed; fold in front of one or two less prominent folds, all of which become obsolete before reaching the opening of the aperture.
Dimensions.
— Imperfect specimen: Altitude, 85 mm.
: maximum diameter, 32 mm.
; spiral angle, 30°.
This magnificent species is represented in the present collection from Coon Creek by two individuals, both of which, while imperfect, yet show the essential characters of the shell.
It is well characterized by the elaborate axial and spiral ornamentation, the very acuminate spire and further by the spinose varix-bearing posterior fasciole.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Family FUSID^E.
Genus FUSUS Lamarck.
Subgenus A.NOMALOFUSUS subgen.
nov. Etymology: avatpLaXos, irregular; fusus, a gastropod.
Type: Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus sp.
nov.
Shell of medium size and elongate, fusiform in outline: spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as the aperture; protoconch naticoid and smooth, coiled about three times; axials most prominent ornamentation, costae irregular in size and spacing; spiral sculpture consisting of many fine elevated line of different sizes which override axials; suture impressed, aperture lenticular and produced anterior^ into a canal; outer lip thickened and dentate within, broadly notched between suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture; inner lip thinly calloused, columella smooth and slightly sinuous.
The nuclear characters, the sharp cancellate sculpture, and intermediately thickened outer lip which is broadly notched in front of the suture seem to assign this form to the rank of a subgenus under Fusus.
This form bears some resemblance to Phos in general outline, but is much more slender.
Phos is characterized by a columella which is much more sharply twisted.
Anomalofusus has a longer canal than any of the Buccinidse and lacks the abruptly excavated columella, plicate in front, which is characteristic of Phos.
Besides nuclear characters, Anomalofusus differs from Fusus in its shorter canal, and further by its thickened and notched outer lip.
Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus sp.
nov. PI.
XXIII, figs.
9, 10, 11.
Description.
— Shell of medium size and elongate, fusiform in outline; spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as the aperture; whorls roundly shouldered, three to five in number on conch; protoconch naticoid and smooth, coiled about three times; external sculpture elaborate, axials predominating, costse well rounded and elevated, irregular in size and spacing, reaching from anterior to posterior suture on spiral whorls, but evanescing on anterior part of body ; spiral sculpture consisting of about 14 small primary elevated lirse and in each interspace there are from one to three very fine primary lirse, primary lirse lacking on a narrow band just in front of suture, both primary and secondary lirse override costse; suture impressed; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal; outer lip thickened and dentate within, broadly notched between suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture; inner lip calloused; columella smooth and slightly sinuous.
Dimensions.
— Immature individual: Altitude, 17.5 mm.
; length of aperture, 9.5 mm.
; maximum diameter, 7.5 mm.
; spiral angle, 35°.
This elegantly sculptured gastropod is abundant at Coon Creek.
There is a wide range in the maturity of individuals, some have only one whorl of the conch, while the older ones have five whorls.
The protoconch is preserved and conspicuous on most specimens.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Genua ORNOPSIS gen. i Etymology: opvi?, bird; o:',3»/<>c, burr.
Type: Hydrotribulus nodosus sp.
nov.
Shell moderately large and solid, top shaped in outline; spire less than half the entire length of the shell; protoconch scar small, sculpture vigorous, the axials undulatory, the spirals more sharply defined; aperture pyriform and produced anteriorly into a narrow recurved canal; outer lip expanded and abruptly constricted at the base of the body, dentate within; parietal wall heavily glazed, sometimes bearing a tooth-like process directly in front of the posterior commissure; inner lip excavated and calloused, reflected anteriorly, concealing entirely the umbilicus; edge of pillar flattened at entrance of canal, simulating a fold.
This genus is characterized by a fairly low-spiral angle; vigorous rugose, cancellate sculpture; a much inflated body and further 1much excavated and reflected inner lip, which concealan umbilicus.
Besides the Coon Creek species it is represented by an undescribed species from Owl Creek, Mississippi, and another from Brightseat, Maryland, and further by a species in the Senonian of Aix-la-Chapelle.
Germany.
The German species was first described by Ntuller in 1851 and assigned to the genus Rapa.
Since then it has been variously assigned by other palaeontologists to such genera as Fusus, Pynila, Hemifusus, Pyropsis and finally to Tudicla by Holzapfel, 11 who discussed the species in 1888.
A study of the description and figures of the German form, together with the Coon Creek species and specimens from the Maryland and Mississippi localities, indicatethat these species belong to a well-defined group, and it seems advisable to propose for their reception a new genus Hydrotribulus of the family Buccinidee.
In general aspect this genus resembles Pyrifusus, but differs from it in having a shorter recurved anterior canal and a pillar which is flattened and recurved in a unique manner at the entrance of the canal.
Tudicla has a much flatter spire, a more globose body and a much more abruptly constricted, longer and straighter canal.
It differs from Strepsidura in characters of the anterior canal and aperture and further by its characteristic rugose cancellate sculpture.
Hydrotribulus nodosus sp.
nov. PI.
XXIV, figs.
4 and 5.
Description.
— Shell fairly large and very heavy with a rugosely cancellate sculpture; top-shaped in outline; spire rather low; its altitude less than the length of the aperture, sides converging at an angle of 70 degrees; whorls of conch five in number and rapidly increasing in size to a much inflated body; whorls of conch obliquely shouldered, the peripheral angle of the spire falling in front of the medial horizontal; sculpture vigorous, both axial and spiral, restricted almost entirely to the area in front of the periphery; axials elevated and broadly rounded, sixteen in number on the body whorl of the type, subequal in size and regularly spaced; spiral sculpture of broad, elevated fillets, most prominent on the body; subnodose at the intersections of the axials which they override.
"Holzapfel, E., Palaeontographica, Band XXXTV, p. L06, Taf.
xi, figs.
1-7. two in number on the whorls of the spire and four on the medial portion of the ultima, separated by shallow channels of approximately the same width as the fillets; shoulder sloping at an angle of about 45°, very feebly convex; sculpture with retractive undulations corresponding in number and proportion to the axials with an obscure secondary liration and revolving a little behind the periphery; base of body and pillar threaded with flattened spirals which become increasingly narrow anteriorly; suture quite deeply channeled, undulated in harmony with the preceding volution, body whorl constricted rather abruptly into a broad pillar; aperture pyriform.
produced anteriorly into a narrow canal; outer lip broadly expanded; crenulated at the margin and feebly cordate within, the cords restricted to the margin and corresponding in position with the interspiral areas; inner lip broadly concave, non-plicate; parietal wall heavily glazed and bearing an obscure tooth directly in front of the posterior commissure; edge of pillar flattened at the entrace of the canal simulating a fold, canal sharply recurved, moderately long and narrow with parallel proximate margins; umbilicus closed by the reflected inner wall of the aperture but indicated by a depression between the callus and the anterior fasciole.
Dimensions.
— Altitude, 44 mm.
; length of aperture and canal, 28 mm.
; maximum diameter, 32.4 mm.
; spiral angle, 70°.
This elegant species is represented in the Coon Creek collection by perfectly preserved specimens.
The species is characterized by the obliquely shouldered whorls, the prominent subnodose intersections of the banded spirals and the undulatory axials, further by the low spiral angle and outline of cross-section of body.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Family EUOMPHALlD^l.
Genus HIPPOCAMPOIDES gen. nov. Etymology: i-7tuy.ap.7:o$ ) sea-horse; eldo?
y shape.
Type: Hippocampoides serratus sp.
nov.
Shell rather small, flattened or feeble apically; widely and deeply umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid, paucispiral; whorls of conch relatively few, increasing rapidly both in diameter and altitude toward the aperture; external surface usually smooth; peripheral margin acutely angulated, often sharply serrate; aperture holostomous, umbilicus funicular, the outer margin acute, conspicuously produced anteriorly.
This flattened form is assigned to the familj Euomphalidae because of its flat spire, its dee)) wide umbilicus, the outer margin of which is produced conspicuously and further on account of the angular peripheral margin.
Hippocampoidcs resembles Discolx lix somewhal .
but differs from it in having a protoconch not inverted and further in not having a whorl with a quadrate cross-section.
It may be separated from Straparollus by the height of the spire and crosssection <>f body whorl.
Hippocampoides serratus ~i> nov. PI.
XXIV.
figs.
11, i_\ 13.
Description.
— Shell rather small, flattened or very feebly convex, apically concave laterally, the altitude increasing toward the aperture, profoundly umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid depressed below the plane of the initial whorl of the conch, the one and onehalf component volutions rather loosely coiled and approximately uniform in diameter, line of demarkation between conch and prococonch indicated by a slight but very abrupt increase in the diameter of the whorl; conch thrice coiled, the whorls increasing regularly and quite rapidly in diameter; external surface smooth and probably polished in the original state; peripheral keel acute, sharply and, on the final half turn, profusely serrate; the indentation nearest the aperture running almost half way to the suture line; the deepest of the serrations coincident with pronounced resting stages so the last half turn seems to be made up of a series of overlapping triangular plates; suture line rather deeply impressed; aperture semielliptical in outline, the aperture half again as great as that of the body whorl at its initiation, but less than half that of the body whorl at its close; peristome adnate along the body wall, very feebly emarginate both at the peripheral and at the umbilical keels, approximately straight between the notches, umbilicus very wide, profound, persistent to the apex, funicular, the outer margin acute, probably serrated; area between the peripheral and umbilical keels quite symmetrically concave.
Dimensions.
— Altitude.
11 mm.
; length of aperture.
5 mm.
: maximum diameter.
19.2 mm.
This species is remarkable for the auriculate outline of the apical aspect, the deep serrations of the periphery, the rapid increase of the altitude of the shell toward the aperture, the lateral concavity and the profound umbilicus, approximately half as wide as the entire shell and margined by an acutely angulated keel.
The edge of the keel has been macerated, but there is evidence that it was quite strongly serrate.
Occurrence.
— -Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Family TURBINIDSE.
Genus SCHIZOBASIS gen. nov. Etymology: *%%£&, to split; /?«ove the body whorl; protoconch broken away in type species; conch paucispiral, the component whorls three and one half in number, increasing regularly and rapidly in diameter, outer wall of mie and one-half whorls of the apex broken away from spire of type; sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral, seven low, round spirals on body whorl, evanescing rather suddenly on body near aperture of adult, posterior spiral less rounded and very near posterior suture, obscuring suture line, interspiral spaces much narrower than spirals; a deep spiral sulcus at base of body between anterior spiral and umbilical keel; spiral sculpture consists of irregularly occurring unequal costse shown on top of spirals and absent in interspiral -paces; costse receding anteriorly, parallel to outer margin of aperture, aperture circular, interrupted posteriorly by a slight shallow siphonal notch and anteriorly by a slit which marks the entrance of the anterior canal; outer lip simple: inner lip excavated, heavily reinforced; anterior canal rather short with parallel proximate margins distorted so that it appearas a narrow slit cutting across the base of the shell directly at right angles with the axis; callus almost filling the umbilicus; umbilical keel showing two poorly defined varices; umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened against the base of the columella.
Dimensions.
— Elevation, 18.-4 mm.
; maximum diameter, 23.3 mm.
; spiral angle, 125° 40'.
The type of this very interesting genus is represented in the Coon Creek collection by a single perfectly preserved specimen.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
Family DELPHINULIDiE.
Genu> URCEOLABRUM gen. nov. Etymology: urceus, jug; labrum, lip.
Type; Urceolabnun tuberculatum sp.
nov.
Shell small and porcellanous; trochoid in outline with a conspicuous aperture; apex acute, protoconch broken away in type species, but scar small; sculpture cancellate, often tubercular at the intersection of spirals and axial-; suture impressed; aperture circular and much thickened around the rim, umbilicus wide and deep.
This genus is proposed for a well-defined group of formwhich are characterized by a conspicuous circular reinforced aperture, a profound umbilicus, and an elevated cancellate spire.
Besides the Coon Creek species two others are known, an undescribed species from Eufaula, Alabama, and a species described by Miiller in 1851 from Aachen beds of Vaals, Germany, and referred to the genus Scalaria.
The same species was referred to Liotia by Holzapfel in 1888.
12 This genus differs from typical Liotice which occur in the Coon Creek strata in having a more elevated spire, a circular reinforced aperture and further by a profound umbilicus.
In general outline there is some resemblance to Delphinula, but Delphinula has a nacreous interior and an aperture which is not reinforced or circular.
Urceolabrum tuberculatum *p nov. PI.
XXIV, figs.
(3 and 7.
Description.
— Shell small, solid, porcellanous and ornately sculptured; spire elevated and acute; protoconch scar small; whorls circular in cross-section and four in number; external ornamentation elaborate, axials dominant, costae 14 in number on penult equally spaced and evanescing on base of the body ; spirals forming 5 rows of tubercles at intersection with costae on body whorl, interspiral space at base of body rather wide, an isolated row of tubercles on anterior margin of the umbilicus; suture impressed and crenate; aperture circular, peristome heavily reinforced and calloused resembling mouth of a jug, rim of aperture half as wide as opening; umbilicus profound and funicular.
Dimensions.
— Altitude, 5 mm.
; width of aperture, 1 mm.
; maximum diameter of body.
3.4 mm.
; apical angle, 60°.
This elegant little species is hard and well preserved, being rather common in the Coon Creek sediments.
It may be separated from the Eufaula species by the fact that the Eufaula form has fine secondary lirse between the primary spirals and on the band at the base of the body whorl.
It differs from the German species of this genus 13 in having sharper axials and tubercles at intersection of costae and spirals; the German form has radial lines on the reinforced aperture, while aperture of the Tennessee form is smooth.
Occurrence.
— Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee.
12 Holzapfel, E., 1888, Palaeoulographica.
Band XXXIY, p. 170, Tai.
xviii, figs.
3-7.
13 Holzapfel, E., 1>>>>s.
Inc. cit.
PLATE XXIII.
WADE: NEW CRETACEOUS GASTRCPCLA.
PLATE XXIV.
WADli: NEW CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA.
Explanationof Plates XXIII and XXIV.
Plate XXIII.— Fig.
1.
— Mataxa elegans gen. el sp.
nov. Rear view, x 2.
Fig.
2.
— Same.
Apertural view.
X 2.
Fig.
3.
— Same.
Apical view.
X 10.
Fig.
4.
— Tectaplica simplica gen. el sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
Bize.
Fig.
5.
— Drillulii communis gen. el sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
6.
— Same.
Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
7.
— DrilhUa major gen. el sp.
nov. Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
8.
— Same.
Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
9.
— Fusus substriatus sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 2.
Fig.
10.
— Same.
Hear view.
XlJ.
Fig.
11.
— Same.
Apical view.
X 10.
Plate XXIV.
— Fig.
1.
— Ornopsis glenni now.
e1 sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat size*Fig.
2.
— Ornopsis elerata gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 1£.
Fig.
3.
— Same.
Rear view.
X 1£.
Fig.
4.
— Hydrolribuliis nodosus gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
5.
— Same.
Rear view.
Nat.
size.
I .%.
6.
— Urceolabrum tuberculatum gen. et sp.
nov. Apertural view.
X 0.
Fig.
7.— Same.
Rear view.
X 0.
Fig.
8.
— Schizobasis depressa gen. et sp.
nov. Rear view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
9.
— Same.
Apertural view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
10.
— Same.
Basal view.
Nat.
size.
Fig.
11.
— Hippocampoides serratus gen. et sp.
nov. Apical view.
X 2.
Fig.
12.
Same.
Basal view.
X 2.
Fie.
13.
— Same.
Lateral view.
X 2.
A POSSIBLE PARTIAL EXPLANATION OF THE VISIBILITY AND BRILLIANCY OF COMETS.
BY DANIEL M. BARRINGER.
WITH AN ADDENDUM BY ELIHU THOMSON.
From a careful study of the so-called "shale-ball" meteorites described in my previous papers on the Meteor Crater of Arizona, I am impelled to make a suggestion that their peculiar and more or less uniform shape may give us a hint of at least a partial cause of the brilliancy of the head of comets and the gradually fading visibility of their tails.
It should not be forgotten that these so-called "shale-ball" meteorites have never before been described, and we would know little of their original shape were it not that the several hundred which have been found by us have been dug out of exceeding finely pulverized silicious dust, so abundantly found with larger rock fragments on the rim of the crater.
This finely divided silicious dust is due to the pulverization of a portion of the 1,000-foot white or gray sandstone stratum during the passage through it of the meteoric mass which, by its impact with the earth, as is now proved, made the crater described in my previous papers.
The great mass of this exceedingly finely pulverized "silica," so-called, most of which is so fine that it will easily pass a 100-mesh screen, is practically impervious to water, hence these shale-ball meteorites in many cases have retained their original shapes.
As previously stated by me, they have no sharp corners, but are, generally speaking, either round, oval or pear shaped, and in fact closely resemble in shape ordinary river gravel.
In nearly all cases oxidation has penetrated from the outer surface inward for varying distances, but in most cases not sufficiently far to make it impossible to know what the original shape of the iron mass was when it fell to the earth and was imbedded in the outpouring from the crater, like flour from a barrel, of the finely divided silica dust commingled with rock fragments.
In all of the many thousands of iron meteorites found around the crater only one aerolite, or perhaps more accurately siderolite, has been found.
This was found by me on June 24, 1905.
Inasmuch as by far the greater part of this aerolite was stony in nature, it had yielded hut very slightly to oxidation since it fell upon the earth.
It is interesting to note, however, that all of its edges were rounded as if they had been subjected to abrasive action, but it.
was n<>t.
as perfectly rounded or oval in shape as the great majority of tiniron meteorites.
If it fell at the same time as the cluster which made the crater, as I now think is probable, possibly this was due to the fact that it.
had been gathered up by the iron-headed comet in its passage through space and had not been a member of the cluster for as long a time as its iron companions.
The abrasive action between these masses of meteoric material composing the comet's head, even though it is less than any grinding action that we can conceive of owing to the fact that the mass travels through the ether of space, has, I would suggest, something to do with the visibility of comets.
Inconceivably gentle abrasive action may be sufficient to wear off infinitesimal particles of matter, considering the enormous periods of time available.
If so, may it not be that the attrition between the masses of meteoric material, for example masses of iron, not only possibly causes a disturbance of the ether where the grinding or milling action takes place, but literally fills the space in and around the head of the comet with exceedingly fine particles of cometary dust?
May not these fine particles of matter, possibly electrified, also form the so-called tail as they are swept away from the main body of the comet travelling through space?
The explanation of the tail pointing away from the sun is somewhat difficult on this theory, but the difficulty disappears if we can conceive the particles to be so infinitesimally small and so wanting in weight as to be affected by the light waves of the sun and to be driven by them in a direction away from the sun.
There can be no doubt that all the so-called " shale-ball'' iron meteorites so far discovered by us in the material forming with the upturned edges of the limestone and sandstone strata the rim of the Arizona crater show evidence of what seems to have been abrasive action.
The inference is unavoidable that they have been subjected, during perhaps billions of years, to such action, inconceivably slight, it is true, but nevertheless sufficient to finally reduce them to the shapes in which we find them.
It is evident that the abrasion was not produced by their passage through our air.
May they not be in fact "celestial cobblestones," and may not the milling action when they rub against each other, even very gently, account, in some way, not perfectly understood, for not only what we term the brilliant head of a comet but tor its tail as well?
This is only a theory, but the inference seems to be justified.
The rounded shape common to this kind of meteorites is a fact which must be explained, and the only reasonable explanation is that it has been due to mutual abrasion.
The largest mass of meteoric iron of this description so far found by us weighed over 100* pounds.
I have no doubt, however, that many of them composing the cluster which formed the head of the very small comet, which produced by its impact with the earth what we know as Meteor Crater, were much larger.
Evidence that many others fell upon the earth around the crater is to be found in the fact that the plain round about is strewn with what is locally known as " iron-shale," certainly due to the decomposition of these "shale-balls," it being merely oxidized meteoric iron.
A great many thousand pieces of this "iron-shale" have been found around the crater, on all sides of it, but most abundantly to the N.N.E., the direction from which the cluster is supposed by those of us who now recognize the true origin of the crater to have approached the earth.
This variety of meteoric iron, as I have previously stated, decomposes very much more rapidly than any other meteoric iron ever discovered, owing to the fact that it contains appreciable quantities of chlorine.
That thousands of "shale-balls" were strewn about the crater a moment after the impact there can now be no reasonable doubt.
It is a remarkable fact, however, that no piece of the so-called "ironshale" has ever been found which is not slightly curved, similarly to the "iron-shale," found on the outside of the slowly decomposing "shale-ball" meteorites which lie deeply imbedded in the silicious' dust forming a great portion of the rim of the crater.
Most of the latter have iron centres and the "iron-shale" surrounding them are merely the layers of iron oxide still adhering to the central iron mass.
When we compare the two, the pieces of "iron-shale" found on the surrounding plain show conclusively by their shape that the so-called "shale-ball" meteorites from which they were derived were originally more or less globular in shape.
Saturn's rings are now believed to be composed of meteorites, but upon the theory which I have advanced there is possibly no milling or grinding action taking place between them such as may take place for some unknown reason in the head of a comet.
I may, however, easily be in error as to this.
If the lunar craters and the Arizona crater have had a common origin, as now seems very probable, there can be no doubt that our knowledge of cosmogony has been greatly advanced by the discovery of the origin of the Arizona crater and that there is much stronger reason now than ever before to believe in the general correctness of Chamberlin's and Moulton's theory of the building up of planetary systems.
It is calculated that some 2,000,000 meteorites reach our atmosphere every twenty-four hours, and it is highly probable that in the early history of the earth it was abundantly bombarded by cometary bodies, that are probably, after all, merely masses of meteoric material which have gotten together and in some way not known to us have assumed orbits of their own.
It would seem, however, that most of them, as well as most of the meteoric material originally forming the nebula out of which our solar system has been built up, have long since been gathered into the sun, its planetary bodies or the moons revolving about them.
Our moon, having been without an atmosphere for perhaps a great many millions, if not billions, of years, showevidences of some of the more recent accretions to its mass, outside of the more or less steady rain of cosmic dust.
Its numerous craters probably merely represent the gathering in of cometary bodies or clusters of meteorites, for they are apparently exactly similar to our Arizona crater, except that most of them are vastly larger.
If this theory of the building up of solar systems be correct, is it not wonderful to reflect that when one holds in the hand one of these pieces of meteoric material he is probably holding something older than our sun, our own earth, or any of the planetary bodies which with their moons revolve about the sun?
That is to say, he is literally holding, practically unchanged through countless eons of time, a part of the nebula out of which our solar system was constructed and which nebula in turn probably represented the wreckage of a previously existing system.
Addendum by Elihu Thomson.
The following comments on the above paper were received by Mr. Barringer from Prof. Elihu Thomson: I have your letter of June 14, enclosing a communication which you are thinking of sending to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
I think there is little question that the explanation put forward in your paper as to the rounded shape of the shale-ball meteorites is the true one.
I have, in fact, often spoken of the inevitable readjustments that may take place in a small cluster revolving around the sun and the attrition between the parts as accounting for the steady production of very finely divided material 32 driven away from the nucleus by the pressure of light.
In fact, I have talked of this very thing with the astronomers, and they have not raised any objections to it.
I take it that what happens is about this — at least, this is in accordance with my idea of what happens: When the comet is far removed from the sun and consists, as it probably almost always does, of a nucleus of fairly heavy pieces surrounded by lighter masses, they are, on account of the cold of space, at a very low temperature, and what little gravitational effect is produced is just sufficient to prevent them being scattered.
They are free, at the far distance from the sun, from anything like tidal action.
The cluster might even be revolved without being distorted by disturbance of the parts.
Should they pass within range of the gravitational effect of Jupiter and have the path slightly disturbed thereby, there would necessarily be (by the slipping of the parts over each other) an attrition or grinding action taking place, and this would continue solong as the body was within the range of the disturbing planet.
The same would be true of the cometary clusters passing towards the sun and around it (making a so-called perihelion passage), except that there would be some little difference.
In this case, the particles of fine material, the result of the grinding, and held in the cluster, would now be free.
The manner of this freeing can easily be understood.
The face of the mass of the cluster on the side toward the sun would undergo a warming or heating process.
This would result in the evolution into the vacuous space of whatever vapors or gases, however rare they might be (originally occluded in the face of the masses of the cluster), especially from the warmed surfaces.
This would amount to a flowing of gas or evolution of gas on the side toward the sun which would lift the dust particles away from the mass, and the very fine particles would thus be free to be driven back by the light pressure to form a tail.
It is an old idea that during this process if the sun were highly electrified electrical actions would take place, electrical readjustments to the increasing actions of the sun, but I think it doubtful whether the tail is much, or anything, of an electrical nature, for the reason that the vacuous space in which the tail moves is so high a vacuum that no conduction would be possible.
I am inclined to think that whatever actions of temperature or electrical actions occur would be practically within the nucleus or near it.
The spectroscope shows that as the comet approaches the sun gas is actually evolved; and the spectra of cyanogen and carbon monoxide are common in comets, and possibly also hydrocarbon spectra in some cases.
The luminosity of the tail, which, it must be borne in mind is extremely low, according to any way of rating it, is.
I think, amply accounted for by the greal depth of >i>ace in which the fine matter exists and the solar light of high intensity reaching this fine matter: a pure case of diffusion from fine particles.
As to cosmic dust not reflecting sunlight as does fine cometary dust, the following explanation, it seems to me, is ample.
We sec things by contrast.
Even if there was a slight luminosity in space, it would -imply form a background for the comet's tail, which would be more luminous and more dense in dust.
The astronomers have long suspected a very thin veil of dust in the sky, of dust under illumination* The sky is not, in fact, absolutely black.
It is black by comparison.
Of course, it cannot be expected that ordinary meteorites should ever be seen in the sunlight.
They are too small or too far apart.
Only when they reach a considerable size do they produce any impression as single spots of light.
Witness the asteroids or the little planet Eros, which probably is miles in diameter and yet is difficult to detect.
My idea is that the continual readjustment of the position and relation of the parts within a small cluster, or even within a large cluster forming a large comet, will account for practically all that occurs in the head of the comet and in the tail.
This tail will always point away from the sun.
It will curve backwards, for although the particles move in a straight line from the sun, it will curve backwards owing to the progress of the nucleus around the sun.
The tail will continue to be formed so long as the disturbing actions occur, and it will fade away as the comet gets so far from the sun as not to be distorted or disturbed.
If the comet is not otherwise lost, this action will continue on from the action of the sun with a constant reduction of mass and the final diffusion of the material composing the comet.
Your statement in relation to the aerolite of a stony nature which you found is very interesting to me, as I had not heard that you had found any such stony meteor.
It is quite easy, however, it seems to me, to account for it as a survival of perhaps many others present in the cluster.
The stony meteorites will naturally be sifted out from the iron meteorites in the flight of a meteor through our atmosphere.
They would not only be crushed by air pressure on their relatively greater area per unit of mass, but on account of their lower specific gravity they would not have the ability by momentum to force their way as far.
Their relatively low momentum and greater air resistance in proportion to their mass would make them early losers in the race, while the air pressure encountered would usually smash them into small pieces.
I think it quite probable that the stony matter of the earth is merely an outer layer over an iron centre, and in the smash up of any body due to partial collisions or actual collisions the stony matters must be dissipated, as well as the iron masses, to be gathered up again by the approach near to a large gravitating body like a planet or a sun.
Your expression of "celestial cobblestones" is very expressive and pertinent to the case of the shale-ball masses, and your observation that pieces of apparently broken-up shale-balls are curved indicates a similar origin for all of them.
The flight of a cluster of small and large meteoric masses, more or less rounded through our air, would naturally be a sifting-out process, as the smaller bodies would lag behind in the flight.
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF CREPIDULA.
ADUNCA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT.
BY HAROLD HEATH.
The genus Crepiduh in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, California, is abundantly represented by the members of two species, C. adunca and C. nivea.
In each case the young are retained in capsules within the mantle cavity of the parent, and are liberated when they have attained the form of the adult and are in possession of all the definitive organs with the exception of those belonging to the reproductive system.
It is accordingly readily possible to secure extensive series of embryos and to follow the course of development from the ovum to the adult.
The embryology of several species of this genus has been studied in great detail by Conklin ('97), 1 and as a result it is clearly established that they all pursue essentially the same developmental path until they reach the veliger stage or a corresponding point where a free-swimming larva is lacking.
Beyond this point nothing is known.
In connection with a comparative study of the nervous system of several families of mollusks, I have examined adults of the two above-mentioned species of Crepiduh.
with considerable care and have traced its development in C. adunca.
In view of the fact that Paludina vivipara as worked out by Erlanger ('92) 2 is the only other gastropod whose development in this respect is known, the results possess an enhanced degree of interest.
The central nervous system of the adult C. adunca is located in the base of the neck, in a spongy mass of connective tissue, placed between the pedal musculature and the overlying mantle cavity.
It conforms to the highly centralized type characteristic of the monotocardia generally, with cerebral, pleural and pedal ganglia closely appressed.
In several instances, especially in half-grown individuals, the line of demarcation between the cerebral and pleural ganglia is comparatively slight; on the other hand, the pedal ganglia are invariably sharply defined.
All are globular bodies of essentially the same size and, as indicated previously, are united by comparatively short commissures and connectives.
1 The Embryology of Crepidula, ./nun*.
Morph., Vol.
13.
1897 2 Zur Entwickhm^ von Paludina vivipara, Morph.
Jahrb., Vol.
17. l v Of the more peripheral portions of the nervous system the buccal ganglia are situated in the head region slightly attached to the dorsal face of the radular musculature.
From the commissure uniting them two delicate nerves are given off, which course ventrally but rapidly become lost to view among the surrounding muscle bundles.
The connectives to the cerebral ganglia arise from the forward borders of each buccal ganglion, extend laterally and anteriorly over the buccal musculature for a short distance, whereupon they pass between some of the bundles of radular muscles to the ventral side of the head.
In this position, at each side of the under surface of the radula, they pursue a course posteriorly to the cerebral ganglia.
Immediately after reaching the ventral surface of the head they are united by a delicate commissure.
Each cerebral ganglion gives rise anteriorly to one or two nerves, in addition to the buccal connective, which innervate the head.
Where one nerve appears it soon divides into an outer and inner branch destined to supply the tentacle and lips, respectively.
The relatively strong tentacle nerve gives off a short, stout nerve to the eye and, after dividing, extends far towards the tip of the tentacle.
The inner, or lip nerve, passes by a fairly direct path to the dorsal side of the head, and ultimately breaks up in the tissue about the mouth.
The pedal ganglia usually develop four pairs of nerves.
The most anterior, springing from the forward border of the ganglion, extends through the pedal musculature to the forward section of the foot, where each branches repeatedly and becomes lost among the muscle fibres.
Two other pairs extend ventrally and likewise soon disappear in the compact pedal musculature.
In addition to these three pairs, each pedal ganglion gives off from its antero-dorsal surface another nerve destined to supply the base of the neck.
On the left side of the body the bundle is comparatively slender and soon becomes lost to view at the junction of the head and mantle.
On the right side the corresponding branch has the same size and apparent distribution in lately hatched individuals, but at a later period it becomes greatly enlarged and supplies the penis, which arises relatively late in life.
It may be added that the pedal ganglia are united by two commissures, the usual heavy one and another, much more delicate, posterior to it.
The elements of the visceral loop comprise three clearly denned ganglia, the sub-intestinal, the supra-intestinal and the visceral.
The first named is a globular body of approximately the same size as the overh iug right pleural ganglion, to which it is attached by a short connective, thus producing a dextral zygoneury, while a somewhat larger connective, passing ventral to the pharynx, unites it with the left pleural ganglion.
The supra-intestinal ganglion is a fusiform mass united by a short connective to the right pleural.
The visceral ganglion, in contact with the ventral floor of the mantle cavity on the right side of the body, is joined by connectives passing Fig.
1.
— Dorsal view'of the nervous system <>( Crepidula adunca.
The pedal nerves are represented by broken lines; the right posterior pedal nerve is omitted, p., penis; t., testis.
dorsal to the oesophagus and to the right side of the stomach and the adjacent section of the intestine.
The visceral connective on the left develops a small nerve, usually associated with a ganglionic enlargement, which has been traced for a. short distance beneath the floor of the mantle cavity.
The visceral ganglion itself also gives rise to a branch which passes to the wall of the kidney, where it disappears from view.
In this species a well-defined marginal mantle nerve, or Mantelrandnerv, is present with many of the essential features of what has been found by Willcox ('98) 3 to exist in Acmcea fragilis.
In the present instance it is loosely attached to the walls of the marginal mantle sinus, and throughout its course develops numerous delicate branches, which attach to the overlying epithelium or the deeperseated gland cells.
On the right side of the body this marginal nerve is united by two connectives with the pleural ganglion, and, judging from sections, with the sub-intestinal ganglion as well.
Of these connectives the anterior is much the heavier, and skirting the floor of the mantle cavity can be followed forward, where it divides into a short, lateral branch uniting with the marginal nerve coming up from the posterior three-fourths of the body, and a slightly more dorsal and relatively larger nerve coursing about the base of the marginal mantle thickening.
In other words, the marginal mantle nerve of the posterior part of the body can be traced as far forward as the anterior level of the head in contracted specimens.
It actually may continue entirely around the body, but anteriorly it becomes very delicate and finally disappears among the masses of gland cells in the free border of the mantle.
However, the heavy connective from the right pleural ganglion attaches to it before its disappearance, and on the other hand extends around the mantle edge in front, where it meets the corresponding nerve from the left pleural ganglion, thus completing the circular mantle nerve, though, as noted before, this anterior section is at a slightly greater distance from the mantle border.
The smaller, posterior connective appears to be more largely a product of the sub-intestinal ganglion, and, like the two smaller connectives of the left side, it extends laterally and posteriorly through the pedal musculature to the mantle border.
These two smaller connectives of the left side as well as another of much larger caliber arise from the pleural ganglion.
The anterior one pursues a course similar to its counterpart on the right and is 3 Zur Anatomie von Acmsea fragilis, Jenaische Zeitschr.f.
Naturw., Bd.
32, 1898. inserted in practically the same fashion with the marginal mantle nerve.
The osphradial ganglion is a well-defined elongated body situated far forward on the left side of the mantle cavity.
The nerve leaving its posterior border pursues a parallel course with the anterior mantle ring connective and enters the supra-intestinal ganglion.
Certain species of the genus Crepidula are reported.
4 to po-~e-< a sinistral zygoneury wherein the supra-intestinal ganglion is united to the pleural of the same side.
I have found no evidence of its existence in C. arfunca.
Turning now to the development of the nervous system, we find that shortly after the first appearance of the foot the ectodermal cells immediately in front of the lateral angles of the mouth opening commence to elongate, and each area rapidly differentiates into a well-defined, probably sensory ridge and the tentacle.
Associated with these external developments there is a migration of ectodermal cells from the region of the ridge and tentacle, slight at first, but rapidly increasing, and finally ending, if one can rely on sections, at the time when pigment first makes its appearance in the eye.
These migrant cells form the cerebral ganglia, more or less rounded at first, and largely obscured by the heavily staining overlying ectoderm.
Synchronous with the development of the cerebral ganglia the pedal ganglia arise.
With the exception of a median, ciliated, slender, wedge-like area, the base facing anteriorly, the cells of the foot likewise become elongated, whereupon cells migrate inwards, forming two large, diffuse masses in contact posteriorly where the commissure subsequently arises.
The four ganglionic bodies thus existing at this time appear to be the product solely of migrating elements, since sections give no indication of cell division after the cells have left the ectodermal layer.
The same is also true of all the other ganglia now to be considered.
In whole mounts and in sections the cells along the posterior border of each cerebral ganglion can be seen in the late stages of its development to assume an elongated form and to develop fibres which extend posteriorly.
In some instances the strands thus produced form two distinct bundles at the outset, one of which passes into the pedal ganglion, while the other at a slightly later stage joins with the pleural.
In other instances one bundle first 4 Lang's Lehrbuch, p. 213.
484 [Sept., -appears and subsequently divides to form the cerebro-pedal and cerebro-pleural connectives.
During this time the cells of the anterior margin of each cerebral ganglion likewise elongate and rapidly form fibres which extend across the midline and thus form the cerebral commissure.
The buccal are the only ganglia which do not directly arise from ■cells migrating from the overlying ectoderm; on the other hand, Pig.
2.
— Half -developed embryo of Crepidula adunca, showing the central nervous system and the visceral loop, c, cerebral ganglion and eye; i., intestine; m., mantle cavity; o., osphradial ganglion; p., pleural ganglion; pe., pedal ganglion and otocyst; s., supra-intestinal ganglion; st., sub-intestinal ganglion; v., visceral ganglion.
they give clear evidence of being products of the cerebral ganglia.
At about the same time that the cerebral commissure is forming cells can be seen extending toward the midline from the inner border of each cerebral ganglion.
These gradually form an accumulation on •each side of the radular invagination, and in some instances completely invest the radular sac.
In the stage represented by fig.
2 the ganglia are usually differentiated, though the commissure and the connectives may continue to contain cells until a relatively late stage in the development of the embryo.
After the cerebral ganglia have developed, yet before they havi become fashioned into their final form, the pleural ganglia and the elements of the visceral loop put in their final appearance.
Each pleural ganglion is the product of cells migrating from the adjacent ectoderm and arises at the sides of the body immediately posterior and slightly dorsal to the cerebral ganglion.
In most instances it is a fairly sharply defined though sheet-like structure, yet it may originate in the form of several distinct masses whose anastomosing fibres form a distinct plexus before they become fused into a single mass.
The ganglia of the visceral loop arise simultaneously.
The subintestinal occupies a position on the right side of the body at the intersection of the neck and visceral mass; the supra-intestinal lies approximately in the midline at the junction of the neck and visceral mass; while the visceral ganglion is somewhat to the right of the midline and anterior to the terminal section of the intestine.
Even while these ganglia are in process of formation delicate fibrils from some of the component, bipolar cells push out between the yolk granules and increasing in number ultimately form the connectives of the visceral loop.
The osphradial ganglion rapidly becomes imbedded in the margin of the mantle, and, as in the adult, is united by a connective with the supra-intestinal ganglion.
In many instances a delicate connective unites the suband supra-intestinal ganglia; no trace of it has been found to exist in adult specimens.
The right-sided zygoneurous condition, the union of the pleural and the sub-intestinal ganglion, characteristic of the adult appears to put in an appearance shortly before the embryo escapes from the parent.
At the time of hatching there are traces of a plexus extending about the margin of the mantle, but it is very dim and indistinct.
When it becomes clearly defined throughout and capable of being traced it has all of the essential features of the marginal mantle nerve of the adult.
With the increased growth of the mantle and the development of an extensive mantle cavity (beyond the stage represented in text fig.
2) the visceral mass between the mantle margin and the neck becomes completely covered.
Furthermore, the absorption of the included yolk creates a more flattened condition of the embryo, which ultimately brings the nervous system into the position characteristic of the adult.
new or little-known crane-flies from the united states and canada: tipulidje, ptychopteridje, diptera.
part 3. by charles p. alexander.
Introduction.
In this paper, the author has undertaken a review of the Nearctic species of the difficult Eriopterine genus, Gonomyia, and has supplied figures of the wings and hypopygia of the various species.
The remainder of the paper is in the nature of a continuation of the first two papers under this title.
1 In order to complete the data in some sections of the family, especially the genus Geranomyia, it has been deemed advisable to add a few extra-limital species, most of these being Antillean or Middle American forms whose northward range is still not well understood.
Description of New or Little-known Species.
Family TIPULIDiE.
Subfamily LIMNOBIN.E.
Tribe Limnobini.
GERANOMYIA Haliday.
Geranomyia Haliday; Entomologists Magazine, vol.
1, p. 154 (1833).
Geranomyia canadensis Westwood.
(Plate XXV, fig.
1.)
Limnobiorhynchus canadensis Westwood; Annales Societe Entomologique de France, p. 683 (1835).
A wide-ranging species in the central and eastern United States, from New Brunswick and the Hudsons Bay region, south to Georgia and Florida, west to Michigan, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee and Texas.
Studies by Knab 2 and others show this fly to feed on nectar of Composite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago, Aster, Silphium, Rudbeckia, Verbesina, Cacalia, etc.)
in the late afternoon and evening.
A male from Brownsville, Texas, in May (C. H. T. Townsend).
1 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, October, 1914, pp.
579-606.
Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, September, 1915, pp.
458-514.
2 The Feeding Habits of Geranomyia: Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, vol.
12, pp.
61-65 (1910).
Geranomyia guatemalensis sp.
n.
(Extra-limital.)
Related to canadensis West wood; head gray with a narrow median line; thorax yellowish brown with three indistinct stripes; femora with a brownish subterminal annul us; abdominal tergites ringed brown and yellowish.
Male.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, 6.5 mm.
; wing, (i.7 mm.
; rostrum, 4 mm.
Female.
— Length as above, 6.8 mm.
; wing, 8 mm.
; rostrum, 4.1 mm.
Rostrum elongate, brown, more darkened toward the apex.
Antennae rather short, black, the scape dark brown; flagellar segments rounded-oval.
Head gray with a delicate, more or less distinct, median line.
Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown, the praescutum with three broad, though rather indistinct, brown stripes, the middle stripe broad behind, not attaining the suture; scutal lobes brown, median area of the scutum and the scutellum pale yellow; post not um pale whitish gray, narrowly blackened medially.
Pleura dull brownish yellow.
Halteres brownish yellow, the knobs darker.
Legs with the coxa?
brownish yellow; trochanters yellow; femora light brown with a broad, subterminal, brown annulus, the extreme tip paler; tibiae light brownish, the tips narrowly dark brown; tarsi dark brown.
Wings nearly hyaline; stigma distinct, oval, dark browm.
Venation: Be long, extending to about two-fifths the length of the sector; Rs elongate, almost straight.
Abdominal tergites dark brown, narrowly margined caudally and laterally with dull yellow; basal sternites dull yellowish, more brown on the intermediate segments.
Male hypopygium with the penisguard very long and prominent.
Habitat.
— Guatemala.
Holotype, cf, Aguna, Guatemala; altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen).
Allotype, 9 , topotypic.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species differs from the Nearctic G. canadensis in the clear gray head, in the subterminal brown femoral ring, not with a black tip as in canadensis, the long penis-guard, etc.
Geranomyia knabiana sp.
n.
(Extra-limital.)
Related to canadensis Westwood; rostrum elongate, black; head dark brown; thorax brownish yellow, the praescutum with a broad median stripe; femora with an indistinct brown ring before the tip; wings with subcosta very long.
Female.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, about 4.2 mm.
; wing, 5 mm.
; rostrum, about 2.8 mm.
Rostrum elongate, dark brownish black.
Antennae dark brown, moderately elongated.
Head dark brown with a narrow median black line; head constricted behind.
Mesonotal prsescutum brownish yellow, brighter in front, with a very broad median stripe that is pale anteriorly, dark brown behind; in the Aguna paratype the prsescutum is scarcely marked at all, in the allotype the stripe is distinct for its entire length; lateral stripes not clear; scutum brownish yellow medially, the lobes dark brown; scutellum pale dirty yellow; postnotum brown.
Pleura brownish yellow.
Halteres short, dark brown, the stem more yellowish.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora yellowish brown with a very indistinct brownish subapical annulus; tibiae dull yellow, darkening into brown at the tip; tarsi dark brown.
Wings hyaline, the stigma oval, brown; veins dark brown.
Venation: Sc very long, extending to two-thirds the length of the sector; Sc 2 at the tip of Sci) Rs moderately long, a little over two times the basal deflection of R i+i .
Abdominal tergites brown; sternites yellow, the basal segments a little darker.
Habitat.
— Central America.
Holotype, 9 , Canal Zone, Panama (A. H. Jennings).
Allotype, cf , Aguna, Guatemala, altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen).
Paratypes, 9 , with the allotype; 9 , Antigua, Guatemala, September, 1902 (Dr. G. Eisen).
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Similar to G. canadensis, but smaller, the femora without a black tip, the praescutal pattern more distinct behind, etc.
This interesting little species is dedicated to Frederick Knab, custodian of theDiptera in the United States National Museum, as an appreciation of his studies on the feeding habits of this genus of crane-flies.
Geranomyia distincta Doane.
(Plate XXV, fig.
2.)
Geranomyia distincta Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, vol.
8, p. 186 (1900).
This fly will probably be found to have a wide range throughout the central and eastern United States, it being now known from Connecticut and New Jersey to Texas.
Geranomyia vanduzeei sp.
n. Related to distincta Doane; rostrum moderate in length; head pale gray; thorax reddish brown without stripes; wings clear without a distinct stigmal spot; femora dark brown before the tip, tibiae black at the tip.
Mule.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, about 6.5 mm.
; wing, 6.6 mm.
; rostrum, about 2.5 nun.
Female.
— Length as above, about 5 mm.
; wing, 6 mm.
; rostrum, about 1.8 mm.
Rostrum moderate in length, brownish yellow, darker towards the tip.
Antemue with the first segment brownish yellow, the remainder of the antenna?
dark brownish black; flagellar segments short-oval.
Head light gray, more yellowish behind.
Thorax reddish brown without distinct stripes or markings of any kind, the scutellum a little more yellow.
Pleura pale reddish brown with a very sparse grayish bloom.
Halteres short, pale yellow, the knobs a little darker.
Legs with the coxae reddish; trochanters dull yellow; femora dull yellow with a broad brownish annulus immediately before the tip; tibiae brownish yellow, the extreme tip black; tarsi yellowish brown, the apical segments darker.
Wings nearly hyaline; stigma indistinct; veins dark brown, C, Sc and Cu a little more yellowish.
Venation: Sc long, extending over one-half the length of the radial sector.
Abdominal tergites dull yellow with a narrow, poorly indicated, brown sublateral line; sternites yellowish, on the terminal segments more reddish.
The female is quite similar to the male,, but smaller with a still shorter rostrum that is not so noticeably pallid basally; abdominal tergites brown, the last tergite more yellowish.
Habitat.
— Southeastern United States.
Holotype, cf, Braidentown, Manatee County, Florida, March (M. C. VanDuzee).
Allotype, 9 , with the type.
Paratopotypes, 2 d 1 9 .
The type is in the collection of Mr. Van Duzee, to whom the species is respectfully dedicated.
In its unmarked thorax this species runs closest to G. distincta which has a longer rostrum and lacks the dark markings on the femora and the black apices to the tibiae.
Geranomyia intermedia Walker.
(Plate XXV, fig.
3.)
Limnobia intermedia Walker; List Diptera British Museum, vol.
1, p. 47 (1848).
The following specimens are at hand: A 9 , Kingston, Jamaica, February 10, 1903 (M. Grabham), a 9 T same locality and collector, April 9, 1903; a cf, 9, Havana, Cuba, April, 1900 (J. R. Taylor).
The species may be looked for in the Miami section of Florida.
The ground-color of the thorax is yellowish, the stripes usually indistinct, somewhat plumbeous, the middle stripe narrowly divided.
The banded abdomen offers an easy recognition character.
Geranomyia di versa Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXV, fig.
4).
Geranomyia diversa Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 207 (1859).
Northeastern and central United States, ranging from Maine to Virginia, west to Arkansas.
At "The Rocks" wharf on the James River, Virginia, while a member of the second trip of the "Ecphora, " under Prof. Gilbert D. Harris, of Cornell University, in quest of Tertiary fossils, I found this species in large numbers resting on the dripping, water-spattered cliffs of the Yorktown (upper Miocene) formations.
On July 2, 1915, they occurred in large numbers, together with Dicranomyia badia Walker.
Many were found to be heavily infested with a species of Trombidium, while others, in large numbers, were found beaten into the mud by being struck by the heavy particles of water dripping from above.
In the north (Ithaca, New York) they occur in mid-summer (August) on rich vegetation along streams.
The adult flies feed on various Composite flowers (Solidago, Erigeron) and also on Daucus (Umbellif erse) .
A 9 specimen, Little Rock, Arkansas, July 11, 1904 (H. S. Barber).
Geranomyia domingensis spn.
(Extra-limital.)
Related to cinereinota Alexander; rostrum short; head black, enclosing a silvery triangle; prsescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median line; wings nearly hyaline, stigma indistinct; vein Sc moderate in length.
Female.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, about 5.2 mm.
; wing, 5.5 mm.
; rostrum, about 1.6 mm.
Rostrum very short, black, palpi biarticulate, black.
Antennse with the first segment black; segment two dark brown; flagellum brownish black with a whitish pubescence; first scapal segment elongated; second segment subglobular; flagellar segments oval.
Head velvety-black, enclosing a large silvery triangle with its point directed cephalad.
Mesontal prsescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median line; lateral stripes less distinct, broad, brownish; scutum brown, the lobes scarcely darker than the median area; scutellum pallid; postnotum plumbeous brown with a sparse grayish bloom.
Pleura reddish yellow with a light gray bloom.
Halteres yellow, the kno brown.
Legs with the coxa 1 and trochanters dull yellow; femora uniform light brown; tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings nearly hyaline; stigma indistinct; veins dark brown.
Venation: Sc moderate in length, extending to about one-fourth the length of the.
sector; R* elongate, somewhat arcuated at its origin; cross-vein r at the tip of Ri] basal deflection of R i+i more than two times the length of the r-m cross-vein; cell 1st M% elongated, the cell being longer than vein Cui beyond it, though shorter than vein M, +2 beyond it; basal deflection of Cuj just before the fork of .1/.
Abdominal tergites dark brown, the sternites rather light yellow.
Habitat.
— Santo Domingo.
Holotype, 9 , San Francisco Mountains, Santo Domingo, September, 1905 (Aug. Busck).
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species is closely related to G. cinereinota in its short rostrum, conspicuous black thoracic stripe, uniform femora, etc.
; it is a smaller fly, with the head black and silvery, without the clear gray coloration of the praescutum, the stigma indistinct and the flagellar segment s much shorter and more globular than in the corresponding sex of cinereinota.
Geranomyia tibialis Loew.
(Plate XXV, fig.
5.)
Aporosa tibialis Loew; Linnaea Entomologica, vol.
5, p. 397 (1851).
A wide-ranging species throughout the Antilles and southward over a large portion of South and Central America.
The following unrecorded stations are before me, representing the Loew collections in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the American Museum and the United States National Museum: Cuba, part of the Loew collection in the M. C. Z., bearing the label "rufescens" in Osten Sacken's writing, but certainly not that species because of the black and enlarged apices of the anterior tibia?
; a o" , Baracoa, September, 1901 (Aug. Busck).
Santo Domingo, several o* 9, Sanchez, June 7-12, 1915; d\ San Francisco Mountains, September, 1905 (Aug. Busck).
Porto Rico, 9 , Aguadilla, January, 1899.
Montserrat, a 9, Plymouth (F. Driver).
Canal Zone, a 9 (A. H. Jennings).
The species may be looked for in the Miami (Dade County) section of Florida.
33 Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander.
(Plate XXV, fig.
6.)
Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander; Transactions of the American Entomological Society, vol.
42, pp.
9, 10 (1916).
The following additional distributional records: Mexico, Cordoba, April 1, 1908 (Knab).
Guatemala, Escuintla, November 12, 1902 (Eisen).
Costa Rica, Cache, March 3, 1910 (Calvert).
Canal Zone, Tabernilla (Busck).
Geranomyia certhia sp.
n. (Extra-limital).
Rostrum elongate; head dark gray; prsescutum yellow with three dark brown stripes ; legs with the femora and tibiae tipped with dark brown; wings hyaline with a prominent oval stigma; cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 seamed with pale brown; abdomen brown with two black longitudinal dorsal stripes.
Male.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, 6 mm.
; wing, 7 mm.
; rostrum, about 5 mm.
Female.
— Length as above, 6.5 mm.
; wing, 8.4 mm.
; rostrum, about 5 mm.
Rostrum dark brownish black, long and slender, especially toward the tip.
Antennas short, black.
Head gray, brighter just behind the antennas; vertex dark gray with an impressed black line that is narrowed behind; occiput suffused with dull yellow.
Mesonotal prsescutum pale buff-yellow with three broad, dark brown stripes, the median one double, ending just before the suture; lateral stripes shorter, crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal lobes; remainder of the scutum buff -yellow; scutellum buff -yellow, a little obscured on either side; postnotum light plumbeous brown with a very delicate impressed median line.
Pleura yellow with a sparse pale gray bloom.
Halteres yellow, the knobs darker brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora brownish yellow, the tips broadly dark brown; tibiae light brown, the tips narrowly dark brownish black; tarsi brown.
Wings hyaline, the stigma prominent, oval, dark brown; cord and outer end of cell 1st M 2 narrowly seamed with pale brown; apex of the wing a little darkened; veins dark brown.
Venation: Sc long, ending about opposite mid-length of the sector.
Abdominal tergites dark brown, the segments paler, yellowish, laterally, more blackish sublaterally, forming two dorsal black lines down the abdomen; sternites brownish yellow.
Habitat.
— Guatemala.
Holotype, cf, Antigua, Guatemala, September, 1902 (Dr. G. Eisen).
Allotype, 9 , with the type.
Paratopotypes, 3 cf 9 .
Type in the collection of the United States Nal ional Museum.
This well-marked species suggests (7. endcrlcuu Alexander {annulate Enderlein) in its large size and long rostrum, but differs in the wingpattern, the darker apices to the femora and tibiae and the two longitudinal black hands on the abdomen, not annulated as in thai species.
Geranomyia virescens I.oew.
Aporosa uirescens Loew; Linnaea Entomologica, vol.
">, p. 398 (1851 .
The following records for this fly admitting it to the United States fauna: Biscayne Bay, Dade County, Florida (Mrs. Slosson).
Miami, Dade County, Florida (Knab), December 24, 1914, feeding on the blossoms of Persea (Lauracece).
Geranomyia rostrata Say.
(Plate XXV, fig.
7.)
Limnobia rostrata Say; Journal Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, vol.
3, p. 22 (1823).
This species ranges over the eastern United States and Canada, from Maine and Canada to Florida, west to Illinois and Louisiana.
What has been determined as this species ranges over the Antilles and the records for the Greater Antilles, at least, are probably correct.
Knab's records show this species to feed on various Composite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago and Helianthus).
Geranomyia ibis sp.
n. Related to insignis Loew; head gray with two black lines; praescutum grayish with three narrow black lines; pleura gray; femora yellowish apically with a subterminal browm annulus; wings nearly hyaline wdth a sparse darker pattern.
Female.
— Length, excluding the rostrum, 7 mm.
; wing, 7.3 mm.
; rostrum, 2.3 mm.
Rostrum rather short, black.
Antennae black, the flagellar segments short-oval.
Head gray with two linear, parallel, black marks extending from the vertex to the occiput.
Pronotum brownish gray, shiny black on the dorso-median line.
Mesonotal praescutum pale reddish gray, with three very narrow black stripes, the median stripe only a little broader than the lateral stripes, narrowed caudally and not attaining the suture; lateral stripes long, slightly .
511 (1913 , knobs brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora brown, a little paler basally; tibiae and tarsi brown.
Wings subhyaline, stigma indistinct, veins pale brownish yellow.
Venation (Plate III, fig.
36) : Sc long, ending beyond the fork of the sector; Sc t about four to six times as long as Sc 2 ; Rs long, gently arcuated; crossvein r present, connecting with R 2+3 at about one-third its length; R 2 oblique (as in Gonomyia subcinerea) ; cell 1st M 2 closed; basal deflection of Cui at about one-third to one-fourth the length of the cell.
Abdomen brownish yellow, the sternites paler yellow.
Male hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig.
98) with the pleurites moderately slender, broader basally, bearing three appendages, the largest appendage (a) very elongate, digitiform, with numerous long scattered hairs on raised tubercles, the apex a little flattened, blunt, this appendage decussate with its fellow of the opposite side; the two smaller appendages are slender, one (b) directed proximad, decussate, pale, the tip drawn out into a long point; the third appendage (c) slender, directed cephalad, slightly enlarged beyond the middle, the tip subacute.
Penis-guard rectangular, on the ventral side running out into a sharp, median chitinized point.
In a position of rest the large finger-like appendages lie parallel and are more or less approximated, but not decussate, directed strongly ventrad.
Females have the eyes smaller, the praescutum more yellowish; ovipositor powerful, the valves elongate, upcurved toward the tips.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, cf , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 1,600 feet, June 13, 1916 (Alexander).
Allotype, 9 , Buell Mountain, Fulton County, New York, altitude 1,800 feet, June 18, 1916.
Paratopotypes, 2 c?
's, 35 9 's.
Type in the collection of the author.
The holotype occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary stream flowing into the lake on June 13.
Associated with the species at this time were the following crane-flies: Dicranomyia pubipennis, Ormosia rubella, Erioptera (Empeda) stigmatica, Limnophila toxoneura, L. areolata, L. nigripleura, L. brevifurca, L. rufibasis, L. sylvia, Ulomorpha pilosella, Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) tenuipes, R. (Rhapidolabina) flaveola, R. (Plectromyia) modesta, Tricyphona vernalis, T. calcar, Dolichopeza americana, Oropeza venosa,, Tipula senega, T. iroquois, and T. hermannia.
The allotype and several of the paratypes occurred along a small temporary torrent pouring down the eastern slopes of Buell Mountain on June 18.
Associated with this species were the following craneflies: Dicranomyia pubipennis, Limnobia indigena, Ldmnophila niveitarsis, L. toxoneura, L. areolata, L. adusta, L. brevifurca, L. rufibasis, L. munda, L. montana, L. lenta, L. emmelina, Ula elegans, Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola, Dolichopezu americana, Tipiiln senega, T. hermannia, T. maerolaMs and T. valida.
This interesting pallid species gave some trouble in assigning it to this genus The general appearance of the fly is altogether t li.it of Gonomyia, hut the presence of the radial cross-vein, the very elongate subcosta and the position of the tuberculate pits make it more probable that the present reference is the correct one.
In its venation it departs widely from that of the genotype, E. stigmatica ( '-ten Sacken (Eastern Nearctic), in the oblique, Gonomyia-like course of vein R 2 , in this respect suggesting certain of the European Empedse.
These insects with the oblique R 2 certainly appear different from stigmatica, and if this difference were worthy of a name it is this group that would have to be separated off from stigmatica, the genus Empeda being erected for the species with the short cell R 2 and the normal, Erioptera-\ike course of vein R 2 .
This GonomyiaErioptera group of species gets more complex with the accession of new forms, and it seems probable that the best basis for a division is the position of the tuberculate pits, these being far cephalad in the Gonomyia-like forms and retreated far backward and lying at nearly mid-length of the sclerite in the genera and subgenera related to Erioptera.
MOLOPHILUS Curtis.
Molophilus Curtis; British Entomology, p. 444 (1833).
Molophilus fultonensis sp.
n. Much larger and darker colored than M. pubipennis to which it is most closely related; antennae of the female much longer than in the corresponding sex of pubipennis.
Male.
— Length, 3.5-4.4 mm.
; wing, 5.6-6.4 mm.
Female.
— Length, 4.5-5 mm.
; wing, 5.3-6 mm.
Very similar to the smaller M. pubipennis Osten Sacken, differing as follows: much larger and darker colored, especially in the male sex, the abdomen being dark brown instead of yellow; thorax without the rich reddish tints of pubipennis; pronotum not bright yellow as in pubipennis.
Hypopygium with two chitinized hooks (Plate XXXI, figs.
95, 96), the curved hook directed abruptly ventrad, ending in a long slender point; the smaller straight one is more dorsad in position, minutely denticulated along the ventral face; proximo-lateral angle produced into a sharp point.
Hypopygium quite as in pubipennis, but the ventral hook is more blackened, chitinized, and the point is longer, more slender; dorsal hook more slender, not so blackened, the sharp point on the proximo-lateral angle not so long.
The female has the antennae much longer than in this sex of pubipennis, the flagellar segments dark brown, not yellowish, the terminal segments darkened; flagellar segments elongate-oval instead of merely oval; wings (Plate XXVII, fig.
37) with the anterior margin and apex with a fringe of reddish brown to dark brown hairs, not bright yellow as in pubipennis.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, & , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 1,600 feet, July 7, 1916 (Alexander).
Allotype, 9 , with the type.
Paratopotypes, 15 cf 9 's; paratypes, 1 d", Taylor, Cortland County, New York, altitude 1,200 feet, July 20, 1916, 2 cf's, near Cincinnatus, Chenango County, New York, altitude 1,300 feet, July 21, 1916.
Type in the collection of the author.
A large striking species, the largest yet discovered in the eastern States.
The types occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary stream flowing into the lake.
This is the same locality described under Erioptera nyctops, but by this date (July 7) the stream had disappeared and the mid-summer crane-fly fauna was quite different from that found less than four weeks before.
The principal species recorded now were the following: Dicranomyia immodesta, D. pubipennis, D. macateei, Elephantomyia westwoodi, Erioptera chrysocoma, E. chlorophylla, E. armillaris, E. armata, E. caloptera, E. stigmatica, Molophilus pubipennis, M. ursinus, Lininopkila fuscovaria, L. quadrata, Bittacomorpha jonesi, etc.
Molophilus nova-oaesariensis sp.
n. Size small (wing under 3.2 mm.
); coloration dark brownish black; wings dusky with the fusion between Cu x and M 3 slight ; hypopygium of the male with the ventral appendages straight, slender, heavily chitinized.
Male.
— Length about 2.7 mm.
; wing, 2.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi blackish.
Antennae rather elongated, dark brown, the flagellar segments cylindrical with an abundant long pale pubescence.
Head dark gray.
Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish bloom ; pleura dark brownish black, the dorso-pleural membranes a little brighter.
Halteres short, dull yellow throughout, the knobs elongate.
Legs with the coxae brown, the trochanters yellowish brown; femora and tibiae dark brown, the former a little brighter at the base; tarsi light brown,, the tips of the segments and all of the terminal two segments darker.. Wings with a dusky suffusion, the costal and stigmal regions a little more suffused; veins dark brown.
Venation (Plate XXVII, fig.
38): first deflection of R 2 elongate, oblique, not perpendicular as in ursinus (Plate XXVII, fig.
39) ; fusion of M 3 and Cu x slight, shorter than the free portion of Gu\ alone.
Abdomen dark brownish black with a long pale pubescence.
Hypopygium narrowed, the ventral appendage very long, slender, acicular and almost straight, heavily chitinized.
Habitat.— Eastern United States.
Holotype, d 71 , Ashland, Camden County, New Jersey, May 13, 1905.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species occurred in the United States National Museum collection, bearing the label U M. ursinus f" in Coquillett's writing.
M. ursinus Osten Sacken, probably the smallest crane-fly in the United States (wing of the male, 2.4 mm.
), is the only species with which it might be confused; the venation of the two species is quite distinct, that of the new species being much more of the normal Molophilus type.
M. ursinus (Plate XXVII, fig.
39) has the upward deflection of R 2 almost perpendicular and in a line with the radial cross-vein; basal deflection of Cui before the fork of M, the fusion of Cui and M 3 being correspondingly extensive, longer than the free portion of Cui alone; there is a clear, hyaline area running along theanterior face of vein M, this obliterating the base of M 1+2 ; M. novaccesariensis (Plate XXVII, fig.
38) has the upward deflection of R 2 .
elongate, oblique; basal deflection of Cui about at the fork of M, the fusion of Cui and M 3 being very slight, not more than one-half the free portion of Cui alone; there is no hyaline obliterative mark along, vein M and the base of M , +2 is distinct.
EMPEDOMORPHA gen. n. Head with the front broad, the eyes widely separated.
Rostrum short.
Palpi four-segmented, the segments subequal.
Antennae16-segmented, the second segment not longer and only a little broader than the third; flagellar segments oval with verticils just below mid-length; terminal segments smaller.
Legs moderately stout, the?
34 segments with abundant strong hairs; tibiae without spurs.
Wing (of the male) (Plate XXVII, fig.
40) with the stigma enormously enlarged so that the costal and radial veins in that field are bulged outward; stigma extending from the basal portion of cell Ri to the end of vein R t ; wing (of the female) with the stigma smaller, the cells Ri not so wide and the cross-vein r consequently shorter and more nearly straight.
Sc moderately long, ending just before the fork of Rs; Sc 2 far retreated, lying just beyond the origin of Rs; Rs long, straight, in a line with #4+5; cross-vein r long, oblique, somewhat twisted, inserted at the end of Rs or just beyond on R 2+3 ; R 2+3 about as long as R 2 alone; R 2 arcuated at its base; cell 1st M 2 closed (sometimes open by the atrophy of cross-vein m, which, when present, is usually weak) ; basal deflection of Cui at or just before the fork of M; fusion of Cu x and M 3 moderate, about one-half of Cui alone or a little longer than the deflection of Cui.
Genotype.
— ?
Trimicra empedoides Alexander.
(Mid-western Near ctic region.)
Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander.
1 Trimicra em-pedoides Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
44, 45 (1916).
This curious fly ranges from South Dakota to Texas and New Mexico, an unrecorded station being Brownsville, Texas, May 3, 1904 (H. S. Barber), a 9 in the collection of the United States National Museum.
GONOMYIA Meigen.
Gonomyia Meigen; Systematische Beschreibung, vol.
1, p. 146 (1818).
The numerous species of this genus may be divided into three subgenera, Gonomyia, Gonomyella and Leiponeura, and it is the lastnamed group that has caused so much confusion in the study of crane-flies during the past few years, the species having been described in a wide range of Limnobine and Antochine genera (Dicranomyia, Atarba, Elliptera, Teucholabis, Thaumastoptera, etc.).
Brunetti, in his exhaustive work on the "Diptera Nematocera of British India," pp.
469, 470, enters into a long discussion as to the homologies of the veins of those species of Gonomyia which have but two branches of the sector reaching the wing-margin, i.e., the subgenus Leiponeura Skuse.
He presents the rather far-fetched idea of the cell R 2 being unusually large, sessile and the vein _R 4+ 5 lacking so that cross-vein r-m connects M 1+2 with R 3 .
A study of a series of the species of the genus show the impossibility of this interpretation, R i+S being one of the most constant veins of the wing in the Tipulidse.
It is much more reasonable to figure out the disappearance of one of these branches by fusion to the wing-margin, a condition found in many remote crane-fly tribes (Limnophilini, the Neotropical genus Psaronius Enderlein; Hexatomini, the genus Hexatoma and the reduced form, Cladolipes, Palsearctic, etc.).
In the genus Gonomyia we may start with forms possessing a deep cell R 2 and the radial cross-vein present as in the subgenus Gonomyella Alexander (slossona?
Alexander) through species with the cell a little less deep [subcinerea group (Nearetic), Plate XXVI, fig.
33; affinis Brunetti (Oriental) et al.
]; then to still smaller forked species (noveboracensis, Plate XXVI, fig.
30; aperta Brunetti) and finally to a group of species that have the cell very tiny (sulphurella group, Plate XXVI, fig.
26; flavonotata Edwards of the Seychelles Islands et al.
), a single step further in the fusion of R i+ z resulting in the obliteration of the cell and the attainment of the condition found in Leiponeura (Plate X XVI, figs.
17-22).
With this fusing of the branches of #2+3 there occurs a simultaneous tendency for R i+5 to bend caudad toward the wing-apex so that in the species of Leiponeura these two branches of the radial sector are very widely separated at the wing-margin.
It is a very easy matter to pick out the species of this group merely by this one tendency alone, a correlated character, however, being the extremely narrowed, often almost pointed, inner end of cell 1st M 2 due to the extreme shortening of the basal deflection of ilfi +2 .
Dr. Bergroth has expressed his belief that although Gonomyia manca Osten Sacken is a true, though aberrant, member of the genus, the other species that have been described in various Antochine genera, such as Atarba, Elliptera, Leiponeura, etc., are quite distinct from manca and really belong to the tribe Antochini.
The series of Leiponeura, as they occur in the United States alone and without taking into consideration the rest of the world, show a curious and almost complete transition into the sulphurella group of Gonomyia s.s.
I would point out the exceedingly long verticils of the flagellar segments of the male antennse that are found not only in the species of Leiponeura {manca, pleuralis et al.
), but also in Gonomyia sulphurella, another proof of the close relationship existing, since this condition of the antennse elsewhere in the family is rare or lacking.
Occasionally a crane-fly society is found in which the dominant element consists of species of this genus.
Such a society was found in the Shaul woods on the east bank of Nowadaga Creek (Castle Creek) south of the village of Indian Castle, Herkimer County, New York, June 13, 1915, and may be described as a CronowM/ia-association.
The woods are quite open, in places with outcroppings of a transitional character, of Trenton limestones and Utica shales and with a western exposure.
The forest cover consists of the dominant arbor-vitse, Thuja occidentalis, with an admixture of Juglans cinerea, Betula lutea, Ulmus americana, U. fulva, Tilia americana, Fraxinus americana and a few others.
The underbrush was of yew, Taxus canadensis, Ribes Cynosbati and Hamamelis virginiana.
The undergrowth from which the crane-flies were swept consisted of three dominant plants, early meadow-rue, Thalictrum dioicum, mandrake, Podophyllum peltatum, and ground ivy, Nepeta hederacea, with fewer representatives of other species, Ranunculus abortivus, R. acris, Fragaria vesca, and an abundance of bladder-fern, Cystopteris bulbifera.
In places rank growths of Osmunda cinnamomea, Podophyllum, Solidago, Lysimachia Nummularia, bound into dense tangles by lianas, Menispermum canadense and Psedera quinque-folia.
Here occurred Gonomyia mathesoni, Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) flava and Erioptera venusta.
Along the base of the hill is a broad ditch, now quite dry, but supporting such a flora as Cystopteris, Lysimachia Nummularia, Tussilago Farfara, etc.
It is very probable that a certain element of the crane-fly fauna emerged from this ditch.
The similarity between the crane-fly fauna of this open woods and that of Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, Fulton County, New York, is very close (Gonomyia alexanderi, G. cognatella, G. mathesoni, Rhabdomastix flava, etc.).
The crane-fly fauna of this association is as follows: Dicranomyia liberta, sev.
; Geranomyia canadensis, rare; Antocha saxicola, few; Erioptera venusta, comm.
; E. armata, comm.
; Molophilus pubipennis, comm.
; Gonomyia alexanderi, uncoram.
; G. sulphurella, dom.
; G. mathesoni, dom.
; G. cognatella and G. florens, loc.
abund.
; G. subcinerea, uncomm.
; Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) flava, uncomm.
; Adelphomyia minuta, uncomm.
; Limnophila rufibasis, comm.
; Tipula caloptera, rare, and T. macrolabis, rare.
Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, New York (mentioned above), is rather remarkable in its Gonomyia fauna, no less than eight species having been taken here (G. alexanderi, G. sacandaga, G. manca, G. sulphurella, G. cognatella, G. mathesoni, G. noveboracensis and G. subcinerea) , as well as the closely related genus, Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) flava Alexander.
The floral conditions obtaining here have been discussed by the author in an earlier paper.
5 5 Entomological News, vol.
23, p. 72 (1912).
A Key to the Near ctic Species of Gonomyia.
1.
Two branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin (Subgenus Leiponeura Skuse.)
2 Three branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin 7 2.
Outer deflection of M 3 absent, the cell 1st M 2 being open 3 Outer deflection of M 3 present, the cell 1st M 2 being closed 4 3.
Costa conspicuously china-white; legs banded with white; male hypopygiuni with the dorsal pleural appendage triangular, the caudal angle a prominent elongate spine; ventral pleural appendage a flattened blade whose inner caudal margin is armed with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the innermost is the largest.
(Eastern United States.)
alexanderi Johnson.
Costa not conspicuously china-white; legs without white bands; male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage broadly triangular, the caudal angle a short spine; ventral pleural appendage a flattened blade bearing near its dorsal inner side a sharp chitinized point; no serrations along the lobe.
(Western United States.)
cinerea Doane.
4.
Pleural stripes conspicuous; stigma distinct 5 Pleural stripes indistinct or feebly indicated; stigma lacking or very faint 6 5.
Legs with the femora tipped with dark brow r n; costal margin of the wings conspicuously light yellow, the stigma pale browm.
(Northeastern United States.)
sacandaga Alexander.
Legs with the femora indistinctly darkened at the tip; costal margin of the wings not yellow, the stigma dark browTi.
(Southeastern United States and southward.)
pleuralis Williston.
6.
Pleura plumbeous with a pale yellow stripe; male hypopygium with the pleural appendage armed with a strongly curved hook.
(Southeastern United States and southward.)
pner Alexander.
Pleura unstriped, pale; male hypopygium with the pleural appendage very elongate, slender, decussate in a position of rest, the inner face at the apex with a strong bristle.
(Eastern Lmited States.)
manca Osten Sacken.
7.
Radial cross-vein present (subgenus Gonomyella Alexander) i Southeastern United States and southward.)
slossonce Alexander.
Radial cross-vein lacking (subgenus Gonomyia Meigen) 8 8.
Basal deflection of Cu x far before the fork of M ; subcosta long, ending beyond the origin of Rs 9 Basal deflection of Cui at or beyond the fork of M; subcosta short, ending opposite or far before the origin of Rs 11 9.
Wings clear.
(Northeastern United States.)
mathesoni Alexander.
Wings spotted 10 10.
Pleura unstriped; Sc rather short, extending to about one-fourth the length of the sector; no dark blotch at the tip of Sci; apices of cells R s and R 5 largely darkened.
(Eastern United States.)
blanda Osten Sacken.
Pleura striped with brown; Sc long, ending at about half the length of the sector; a dark blotch at the tip of Sd; apices of cells Rz and R only slightly darkened.
(Western United States.)
calif ornica Alexander.
11.
Antennae orange at the base, the flagellum dark 12 Antennae black throughout 15 12.
Cell 1st M 2 closed; femora with a dark brown subterminal annulus.
(Eastern United States.)
sulphurella Osten Sacken.
Cell 1st Mo open; femora without a darker subterminal annulus... 13 13.
Sc short ending before the origin of Rs, this distance being about equal to the vein R 2 .
(Western United States.)
flavibasis Alexander.
Sc longer, ending opposite, or just before, the origin of Rs 14 14.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite stout, with numerous (about fifteen) slender hairs; ventral appendage simple, stout, tipped by a blunt black spine; second appendage a powerful, curved, subchitinized arm directed proximad.
(Northeastern United States.)
fiorens Alexander.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite slender, with a few (about ten) stout hairs; ventral appendage bifid, the arm with a long slender black spine; second appendage a slender pale arm that is almost straight, with two hairs at the tip.
(Eastern United States.)
cognatella Osten Sacken.
15.
Wings with slender veins, clouded with a milky suffusion; Rs very long and straight.
(Northwestern North America.
), galactoptera Bergroth.
Wings with stouter veins, pale gray to hyaline; Rs shorter, more arcuated basally 16 16.
Subcosta short, ending before the origin of Rs, the distance about equal to the r-m cross-vein; vein R2 oblique, a little longer than the cross-vein r-m; male hypopygium with the gonapophyses and penis-guard fused into a large, prominent, cylindrical tube.
(Northeastern United States.)
noveboracensis Alexander.
Subcosta longer, ending about opposite the origin of Rs ; vein R 2 longer, the cell R 2 being larger; male hypopygium with the gonapophyses and penis-guard not fused into a cvlindrical tube 17 17.
Wings long and slender with a strong grayish brown suffusion; halteres elongated; male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage very elongate, slender, slightly expanded toward the tip.
(Eastern Rocky Mountain region.)
filicauda Alexander.
Wings broader, not strongly tinged with grayish ; halteres shorter male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage not strikingly elongated 18 18.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage armed with a chitinized hook 19 Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage without a hook, although with two powerful bristles at the tip 20 19.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage two lobed, the caudal arm a powerful chitinized spine; ventral arm with a sharp, chitinized, feebly curved spine.
(Eastern United States.)
subcinerea Osten Sacken.
Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage irregular, not two lobed, the outer face near the apex with a strong, curved, chitinized hook.
(Extra-limital; Guatemala.)
cequalis Alexander.
20.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage prominent, directed caudad, narrowed at the base, the apex a slight chitinized tooth directed proximad.
(Western United States.)
virgata Doane.
Male hypopygium not as described 21 21.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage a double, darkcolored lobe, the inner arm stout-cylindrical; the outer arm slender, curved, bearing at the tip two divergent hairs; penisguard subtended by two divergent chitinized arms that are acute at their tips.
(Extra-limital; Guatemala.)
unicolor Alexander.
Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage pale, not chitinized; penis-guard long and pale, the apex bifid by a deep U-shaped notch; the divergent subtending arms are slender, the ventral margin with a few sharp, appressed teeth.
(Extra-limital; Mexico.)
mexicana Alexander.
Subgenus LEIPONEURA Skuse.
The Cinerea Group.
Gonomyia (Leiponeura) alexanderi Johnson.
EUiptera alexanderi Johnson: Psyche, vol.
19, p. 3, fig.
6 (1912).
This handsome little fly is locally common.
Its known distribution over the eastern United States is as follows: New York, Fulton County, Sport Island, Sacandaga River, June 11, 1914, to August 24, 1910 (Alexander), the type-locality; Herkimer County, Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 (Alexander).
North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 13, 1912 (Beutenmuller).
A female specimen from Piano, Collin County, Texas, in August (E. S. Tucker), probably belongs here, but may possibly represent G. helophila Alexander.
This is also the species mentioned by Osten Sacken in the Monographs, part 4, p. 179, without locality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
17.
The male hypopygium is described below, the characters being largely taken from paratypic material in my collection.
Hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs.
59, 61) with the pleurites rather prominent, cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage (v) elongate, the outer angle produced caudad as a rather broad flattened blade that is slightly chitinized at the tip; inner caudal margin of the appendage with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the innermost is the largest; a fleshy lobe on the ventral side of the outer blade; middle pleural appendage lacking (possibly of a caducous nature) ; dorsal pleural appendage (d) lying on the inner caudal angle of the pleurite, triangular in outline, the caudal angle produced caudad as an elongate spine that is heavily chitinized apically, the inner angle a rounded lobe with numerous setigerous tubercles.
The two Nearctic species, alexanderi and cinerea, have been distinguished by the key given before.
There is a third species, G. helophila Alexander, 6 that is even closer to alexanderi.
Its known range is extra-limital (Lesser Antilles and British Guiana to Peru), but it may range into our southern limits.
The two species may be separated as follows: 1 .
Dorsal pleural appendage triangular, the caudal angle a prominent spine that is heavily chitinized apically; middle pleural appendage apparently lacking; ventral pleural appendage with a broad flattened blade, the inner caudal margin with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the innermost is the largest (Plate XXIX, fig.
59).
(Nearctic.)
alexanderi Johnson.
Dorsal pleural appendage a fleshy lobe bearing many hairs ; middle pleural appendage a slender subsinuous spine; ventral pleural appendage with the apex flattened, smooth, chitinized, bilobed; ventral margin of the appendage with two prominent teeth whose margins are minutely denticulate.
(Plate XXIX, fig.
60).
(Neotropical.)
helophila Alexander.
Gonomyia (Leiponeura) cinerea Doane Dicranomyia cinerea Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, vol.
8, pp.
182, 183, PI.
7, fig.
2 (1910).
The known range of this species is as follows: Washington, Whitman County, Pullman, August 10, 1898 (Piper); the type-locality.
California, Humboldt County, Blue Lake, June 20-27, 1907 (Bradley) .
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
18.
6 Entomological News, vol.
27, pp.
343-346, figs.
1, 3 (1916).
The male has never been described, and this specimen is made the allotype.
Allotype, cf.
— Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae with the basal segments enlarged, the second segment as large as or larger than the first; flagellar segments small, brown.
Head pale with a broad dark brown mark on the vertex sending a small median tongue backward onto the occiput.
Pronotal scutum dark medially.
Mesonotal preescutum light brown with three dark brown stripes, the median one split by a narrow vitta of the ground-color; scutum with the lobes dark brown.
Pleura pale yellow, striped with brown; a very short brown dorsal stripe extending from the pronotum back to above the fore coxae; second stripe beginning at the fore coxa extending caudad to the base of the halter; ventral stripe broadest, including the sterna and the bases of the middle and hind coxae; the pale stripe enclosed broad, extending to the abdomen.
Halteres pale.
Legs with the coxae pale; trochanter's darker; remainder of the legs broken.
Wings hyaline or nearly so, the veins brown; basal deflection of R i+b , r-m and the basal deflection of Cih dark brown; a pale brownish gray oval stigma.
Venation (Plate XXVI, fig.
18) with Rs short, straight, oblique, a little longer than the r-m cross-vein; basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M. Male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig.
62) with the pleurites rather prominent, cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage (y) elongate, flattened, blade-like, the apex chitinized; a rounded lobe on the inner ventral side just before the apex; at the base on the inner dorsal side, a sharp, acute, chitinized point; middle appendage a slender, slightly curved pale hook, directed inward, the apex slightly chitinized; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subtriangular lobe, the caudal angle produced caudad as a short spine, heavily chitinized at the apex, the inner angle prominent, produced slightly cephalad, with numerous setigerous punctures.
Allotype in the collection of Cornell University.
The type is grayish, this color being produced by a pruinosity that is not shown by the alcoholic allotype.
The Pleuralis Group.
Gonomyia (Leiponeura) sacandaga Alexander.
Gonomyia sacandaga Alexander; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp.
587, 588, PL 27, fig.
25 (wing) ; PL 26, fig.
21 (hypopygium) (1914).
This species is still known only from the type station where it is common.
New York, Fulton County, Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, June 11, 1914, to August 24, 1910; the type-locality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
19.
The hypopygium having been described and figured in the first part of this series is not repeated here.
Gonomyia (Leiponeura) pleuralis Williston.
Atarba -pleuralis Williston; Transactions of the Entomological Society of London, p. 289, PL 10, fig.
61 (1896).
This is a tropical species that reaches our southern limit, its range being as follows: Bermuda, apparently common (Jones).
Georgia, Charlton County, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20, 1912 (Bradley).
Cuba, Baracoa, September, 1901 (Busck).
Porto Rico, Aguadilla, January, 1899 (Busck).
St. Vincent (H. H. Smith); the type-locality.
British Guiana, Bartica, December 9, 1912, to February 26, 1913; Mallali, March 14, 1913 (Parish).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
20.
The male hypopygium has been described and figured by the author in another paper.
7 The Manca Group.
Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer Alexander.
Gonomyia puer Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National Museum, vol.
44, p. 506, PL 66, fig.
14 (1913).
This is likewise a tropical species that ranges within our limits,, its northern distribution being a little more extensive than the last.
South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 1915 (Alexander); Charleston County, McClellanville, August 8, 1915 (Alexander).
Georgia, Charlton County, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20 to 25, 1912 (Bradley) .
Florida, Dade County, Miami, December 19, 1912 (Knab).
Santo Domingo, San Francisco Mountains, August, September, 1905 (Busck); the type-locality.
British Guiana, Bartica, January 3, 1913, to January 10, 1913 (Parish).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
21.
''Entomological News, vol.
23, pp.
418-420; figs.
3, 4 (1912).
The male hypopygium (Plato XXIX, fig.
63) with the pleurites very elongated, broader at the base, tapering to the obliquely truncated apex which bears on the inner side a single appendage shaped as a curved hook, bent proximad, dorsad and finally cephalad, the apex acute and strongly chitinized.
Anal tube broad, pale, bifid by a deep median notch, the adjacent lobes rounded.
Penis-guard (p.gd.)
very elongate, slender, tapering gradually to the acute apex, at the base on the ventral side with an oval fleshy lobe covered with setigerous punctures on the ventral face.
Gonomyia (Xeiponeura) manca Osten Saeken.
Gonomyia manca Osten Saeken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, part 4, pp.
178, 17H ( lst>9).
A rather wide-ranging species throughout the eastern United States: New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, August 26, 1916 (Alexander) .
New Jersey, Essex County, South Orange, June 30, 1868 (Osten Saeken); the type-locality.
Maryland, Montgomery County, Forest Glen, June 1, 1913 (Knab); Plummers Island, August 18, 1912 (Viereck).
District of Columbia, Washington (Coquillett's types of Dicranomyia curvivena).
Virginia, Fairfax County, Great Falls, August 23, 1908 (Knab); Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee and Alexander); Glencarlyn, May 28 (Banks).
North Carolina, Jones County, Pollocksville, July 8, 1915 (Alexander) ; Onslow County, Camp Perry, July 9, 1915 (Alexander) ; Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 24, 1912 (Beutenmuller).
South Carolina, Charleston County, McClellanville, August 8, 1915 (Alexander).
Georgia, Decatur County, Bainbridge, September, October, 1910 (Bradley).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
22.
The male hypopygium is of the type of G. puer Alexander.
G. incrmis Alexander et at.
It is shown on Plate XXIX, figs.
64, 65; the pleurites are exceedingly elongated, slender, tapering to the narrow apex, the outer face with many long hairs, on the inner face at the apex wit h a st tong bristle; pleurites in a position of rest, decussate.
Penisguard (p.gd.)
long and slender, acute, tapering to an acute point, subtended on either side by a flattened blade, ending in a triangular black hook that is bent slight ly dorsad at the apex.
Subgenus GONOMYELLA Alexander.
Gonomyia (Gonomyella) slossonae Alexander.
?
Gonomyia slossonce Alexander; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp.
588, 589, PI.
27, fig.
26 (1914).
A tropical species that ranges into the southeastern United States: South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 1915 (Alexander).
Florida, Seminole County, Sanford, May 7, 1908 (M. C. VanDuzee); Dade County, Biscayne Bay (A. T. Slosson); the typelocality.
Panama, Paraiso, January 29, 1911 (Busck).
Subgenus GONOMYIA Meigen.
The Blanda Group.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) mathesoni Alexander.
Gonomyia mithesoni Alexander; Entomological News, vol.
28, pp.
170-172, figs.
1-3 (1915).
A species of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada: Nova Scotia, Truro, July 7 to 26, 1913 (Matheson).
New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 12 to 16, 1914 (Alexander), the type-locality; Herkimer County, Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 (Alexander); Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 (Alexander) ; Tompkins County, Ithaca, August 24, 1912 (Alexander).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
23.
The hypopygium of the male has been described and figured in the paper cited above.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) blanda Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231 (1859).
This handsome fly ranges over the eastern United States: New Hampshire, Rockingham County, Hampton, July 15, 1907 (S. A. Shaw).
Vermont, Chittenden County, Burlington, June 23, 1906 (Johnson).
Connecticut, New Haven County, East River, July 16 to 20, 1910 (Ely).
New York, Albany County, Albany, June 26, 1912 (D. B.
Young); Herkimer County, Trenton Falls, (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 (Alexander); Tompkins ■County, Ithaca, July 19, 1912 (Alexander).
District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken) ; the type-locality.
Virginia, Fairfax County, Falls Church, June 7, 1914 (Shannon).
South Carolina (in the Berlin Museum).
Georgia, Rabun County, Clayton, altitude 2,000 feet, May 18, 1911 (Bradley i. Michigan, Walnut Lake, June 26 to 28, 1907 (Needham).
Colorado, Clear Creek County, June 27, 1915 (Oslar).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
24.
The malt' hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs.
68, 69) with the pleurites stout, the outer angle produced caudad into a long, fleshy, finger-like lobe, blunt at the apex, provided with numerous tubercles; ventral pleural appendage (v) large, prominent, being chitinized and bifid the caudal or outer arm longer, slender, the diameter uniform, the apex subacute; cephalic or inner arm shorter, expanded distally into a broad, truncated apex; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subtriangular fleshy lobe whose inner angle is produced into a prominent chitinized curved horn; the cephalic inner margin with about six hair-bearing tubercles.
Ninth tergite with the caudal margin transversely concave, not notched medially.
Penis-guard very slender.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) californica Alexander.
Gonomyia californica Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
324.
325 (1916).
This is the western representative of the blanda group: British Columbia, Peachland, May 19, 1912.
California, Humboldt County, Blue Lake, June 20 to 27, 1907 (Bradley); the type-locality.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
25.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs.
66, 67) with the pleurites stout, outer angle produced caudad into a slender, fleshy lobe, pointed at the apex and sparsely provided with setigerous tubercles; ventral pleural appendage (v) a two-armed chitinized rod whose outer ventral arm is stout basally, narrowed toward the apex which is again expanded into a blunt tip; the inner arm bends dorsad, slender, tapering into an acute blackened apex; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a triangular fleshy lobe provided with long, coarse hairs.
Ninth tergite with a deep, narrow, median notch the lateral angles rounded.
Penis-guard (p.gd.)
prominent, the sides subparallel, the apical half on the dorsal surface with numerous hairs, the apex produced ventrocaudad into a prominent median lobule.
The Sulphurella Group.
Gonomyia I Gonomyia I sulphurella Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia sulphurella Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 230 (1859).
A wide-ranging species throughout eastern North America: Ontario, Fort Erie, May 30, 1911 (M. C. Van Duzee); Point au Barile, Georgian Bay, July 11, 1914 (R. B. Hughes).
Nova Scotia, Truro, July 7 to August 16, 1913 (Matheson).
Maine, Oxford County, Fryeburg, September 5, 1913 (Alexander).
Vermont, Windsor County, Norwich, July 8, 1908 (Johnson).
Connecticut, Middlesex County, Middletown, June 17, 1909 (Johnson); New Haven County, East River, July 11, 1910 (Ely).
Rhode Island, Washington County, Kingston, September 23, 1907 (Johnson).
New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 11, 1914, to August 24, 1910 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Trenton Falls (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 (Alexander); Tompkins County, Ithaca, May 13 to August 24, 1912 (Alexander); Westchester County, Tarrytown, June 9, 1914 (Frost); Nassau County, Sea Cliff, August (Banks).
Pennsylvania, Luzerne County, Hazleton, August 30, 1910 (Dietz).
New Jersey, Cumberland County, Shiloh, June 19, 1915 (Alexander) .
Maryland, Prince George County, Hyattsville, August 2, 1908 (Knab).
District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; May 15, 1909 (Knab).
Virginia, Alexandria County, Rosslyn, May 11, 1913 (Knab) • Fairfax County, Dead Run, May 21, 1914 (Shannon); Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee and Alexander); Glencarlyn, June 28 (Banks).
North Carolina, Onslow County, Camp Perry, July 9, 1915 (Alexander).
Georgia, Rabun County, Clayton, May 20, 1911 (Bradley).
Louisiana, DeSoto County, Logansport, March 24, 1908 (Tucker).
Texas, Collin County, Piano, May, 1907 (Tucker).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
26.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig.
70) with the pleurites elongate, the outer angle produced proximad, dorsad and caudad as a very elongate, slender, irregularly curved and feebly chitinized hook which tapers gradually to an acute point; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a cylindrical fleshy lobe, narrowed toward the apex which terminates in a bristle; ventral pleural appendage (v) bifid, the dorsal arm short, densely provided with short hairs on the inner face; ventral arm very long, slightly curved, blade-like, the tip subacute, the arm directed proximad, decussate with its mate of the opposite side.
Penis-guard stout, fleshy, near the apex on the ventral surface, a chitinized, median appendage directed caudad and slightly ventrad, at the acute apex turned strongly dorsad.
The Cognatella Group.
Gonomyia < Gonomyia) flavibasis Alexander.
Gonomyia flavibasis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
317-319 (1916).
A western species that is still known only from the type-locality, Monterey County, California, July 18, 1896.
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
27.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, figs.
76-78) with the pleurites long and slender, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a flattened, fleshy lobe that bears many hairs on the dorsal face; first pleural appendage very long, flattened, the apex bent, the appendage with many long, prominent hairs; second appendage complex, consisting of a chitinized hook that is slightly bent; underneath the base of this hook is a fleshy lobe with several short bristles on the outer face, including two powerful bristles at the apex; above the base of the hook is a slender, subchitinized rod that is darkened at the tip.
Gonomyia iGonomyia) florens Alexander.
Gonomyia florens Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
316, 317 (1916).
A fly of cold Canadian conditions in the northeastern United States: Maine, Penobscot County, Orono, July 12, 1913 (Alexander).
New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 18, 1916 (Alexander); Gloversville, June 22, 1916 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Indian Castle, June 9 to 13, 1915 (Alexander), the type-locality; Tompkins County, McLean, June 5, 1916 (Alexander).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
28.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig.
71) with the pleurites very short and stout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad into a blunt fleshy lobe whose inner margin is fringed with numerous long hairs; a short blunt, fleshy knob (A;) at the base of this lobe, provided with five long hairs on the margin; first pleural appendage (i) slender, originating just below the knob (k), directed proximad, the base enlarged with two or three stout hairs, the tip slightly bifid, the caudal arm with two bristles, the cephalic arm with one bristle; a stout bristle just before the tip on the inner or cephalic side; second pleural appendage (2) a powerful, chitinized hook, slightly curved, directed proximad, bent strongly cephalad toward the apex; third appendage (3) a slender, fleshy rod, beyond the slightly enlarged base bent strongly dorsad so that it lies above the second appendage, directed caudad at the tip which is capped by a short, blunt, chitinized spine.
Ninth tergite short, broad, the caudal margin transverse.
Ninth sternite with a prominent median knob on the caudal margin,, provided with numerous setigerous tubercles.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia") cognatella Osten Sacken.
Gonomyia cognatella Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 230 (1859).
A more southern species than the last, their ranges overlapping in New York State : Connecticut, New Haven County, East River, July 6, 1910 (Ely).
New York, Fulton County, Sport Island, Sacandaga River, June 18, 1911, to August 26, 1916 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Indian Castle, June 10 to 13, 1915 (Alexander).
Maryland, Montgomery County, Cabin John Bridge, May 16, 1909 (Knab); Plummers Island, May 24, 1914 (McAtee).
District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken) ; the type-locality.
Virginia, Fairfax County, Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee and Alexander).
North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, July 16, 1912 (Beutenmuller).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
29.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs.
73-75) with the pleurites very short and stout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad as a slender, finger-like lobe, fimbriate with eight or nine long stout hairs on the dorsal inner edge; at the base of the lobe a small, slender, cylindrical knob (k) with three long hairs at the apex; ventrad of this finger-like angle of the pleurite is an elongate, very slender, pale appendage (2) directed caudad and slightly ventrad and proximad, at the apex with two long slender hairs ; pleural appendage (3) directed ventrad on its basal portion, soon bent directly upon itself, dorsad, the tip caudad; the appendage is pale, chitinized, slender, bifid, the lateral arm with the apex somewhat twisted, the proximal arm a slender, pale stylet directed strongly proximad, at the apex with an elongate, slender, black, chitinized spine.
Proximad of the base of the knob (fc) is a slender appendage with a prominent hair at the apex and two slightly smaller subterminal hairs.
The Galactoptera Group.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) galactoptera Bergroth.
Gonoim/iu  fig.
7.'
(1900), described as a Phyllolabis.
type-location (Pullman, Whitman County, Washington, June 22, 1898) is outside of the range of that species as now known.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) aequalis Alexander.
Gonomyia cequalis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
323, 324 (1916).
An extra-limital species (Guatemala, Central America) whose hypopygium has never been figured.
Male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig.
86) with the pleurites moderately stout, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a very slender, finger-like lobe that is provided with numerous setigerous tubercles; at the base of this lobe on the inner side is a tiny fleshy protuberance directed proximad; ventral pleural appendage (v) a pale fleshy lobe densely covered with short, pale hairs; dorsal pleural appendage (d) irregular, fleshy, directed proximad, the caudal or outer face near the apex with a strong, curved, chitinized hook that is directed dorsad and cephalad, the cephalic or inner face with a row of strong bristles, at the tip longer and more approximated.
Ninth tergite almost straight across or slightly concave.
Penis-guard rather long, compressed, the median appendage pale, slightly curved.
Anal tube (a.t.) broad, prominent, subtended on either side by a concave wing bearing on the caudal outer angle a fimbriate tuft of yellow bristles.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) virgata Doane.
Gonomyia virgata Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, vol.
8, p. 189, PI.
7, fig.
21 (1900).
A western species with the following rather restricted range: Washington, Pacific County, Tokeland (Doane), the type-locality.
California, Humboldt County, Eureka, June 6, 1903 (H. S. Barber).
The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig.
32.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig.
87) with the ninth pleurites rather elongate, the dorsal inner angle produced caudad as a slender, cylindrical, fleshy lobe that bears numerous long pale hairs; ventral pleural appendage (v) prominent, directed caudad, narrowed at the base, the apex a slight chitinized tooth directed proximad; second pleural appendage (2) a flattened or concave lobe, heavily chitinized at the apex which is broad, split into two acute teeth, of which the proximal one is the larger; dorsal pleural appendage (d) small, fleshy, bent slightly cephalad at the tip which bears two elongate bristles; cephalic or inner face of the appendage bearing numerous setigerous tubercles.
Ninth tergite large, the caudal margin feebly convex, bearing a short, pointed tooth just inside the base of the pleurite.
Ninth sternite almost straight across, or slightly narrowed to the truncated apex.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) unicolor Alexander.
Gonorhyia unicolor Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National Museum, vol.
44, p. 507, PI.
66, fig.
15 (1913 An extra-limital species (Guatemala, Central America) included here to complete the data.
The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig.
89) with the pleurites moderately stout and elongated, the dorsal angle not produced; ventral pleural appendage (v) a double lobe, dark colored, subchitinized, the inner arm stout-cylindrical with the tip acute and the inner side with two or three hairs; the outer and more ventral arm slender, curved and bearing near the tip two stout divergent hairs; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subcylindrical fleshy lobe from an enlarged base, at the apex with two powerful bristles; cephalic or inner face with four small hairs that are evenly spaced.
Ninth tergite almost straight across or slightly concave.
Penis-guard (Plate XXX, fig.
88) seen from beneath, a powerful, quadrangular chitinized base whose caudal angle is a ventrally directed hook, the base subtended on either side by short gonapophyses (g) that end in a sharp, conical spine ; from above and dorsad of the quadrangular base arise two cylindrical, pointed, chitinized arms that are divergent.
Gonomyia (Gonomyia) mexicana Alexander.
Gonomyia mexicana Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol.
48, pp.
321, 322 (1916).
An extra-limital species described from Cordoba, State of Vera Cruz, Mexico, May 8, 1908 (Knab).
The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig.
91) with the pleurites elongate, though rather stout; ventral pleural appendage (v) a long, pale lobe, subcylindrical, blunt at the apex and bearing sparse, elongate hairs; second pleural appendage strongly chitinized, the tip acute, curved; dorsal pleural appendage (d) rather short, cylindrical, fleshy, the cephalic or inner angle of the apex with two powerful bristles; caudal or outer angle of the apex with two smaller hairs.
Ninth tergite rather short, the caudal margin straight or nearly so.
Penis-guard (Plate XXX, fig.
90) very long and pale, the apex bifid by a deep U-shaped notch, each lobe provided with long hairs; on the ventral face arises a slender, rod-like, median appendage, sparsely short-hairy at the apex and down the ventral face; the divergent subtending arms are slender, somewhat flattened, the apex produced into a slender cylindrical point, the outer or ventral margin with a few sharp, appressed teeth.
RHABDOMASTIX Skuse.
Rhabdomastix Skuse; Proceedings of the Linnsean Society of New South Wales, series 2, vol.
4, pp.
828, 829 (1889).
Subgenus SACANDAGA Alexander.
Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) monticola sp.
n. Coloration grayish black; wings whitish hyaline with an indistinct pale brown stigma; cross-vein r present but faint; cell R 2 small; cell 1st M 2 elongate with the basal deflection of Ciii inserted at about mid-length.
Male.
— Length about 5.5 mm.
; wing, 6 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brownish black.
Antennae black, the flagellar segments with a long, pale pubescence; flagellar segments narrowed, especially terminally.
Head black with a sparse grayish bloom.
Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish yellow pollen; tuberculate pits on the extreme cephalic margin of the sclerite.
Pleura clearer gray.
Halteres pale, the knobs enlarged, the stem a little darkened basally.
Legs with the coxae black with a sparse gray bloom; trochanters brown; femora dark brown; tibiae yellowish brown, a little darkened at the base and more narrowly at the tips; tarsal segment one and all except the tip of two yellowish brown; remainder of the tarsi dark brown.
Wings subhyaline, the stigma fairly distinct, oval, pale brown; veins dark brown, Sc paler.
Venation (Plate XXVII, fig.
41) with Rs elongate; cell R 2 small, vein ^ 2 being short, oblique; R 3 arcuated; cross-vein r present but very indistinct, bisecting the stigma; cell 1st M 2 rectangular, somewhat elongated, the veins issuing from it not elongated, divergent; basal deflection of Qui almost mid-length of cell 1st M 2 .
Abdomen dark brownish black.
Habitat.
— Western America.
Holotype, d% Kokanee Mountain, British Columbia, altitude 8,000 feet, August 11, 1903 (R. P. Currie).
Paratopotypes, 3 cf's.
Type in the collection of the United States National Museum.
This species was formerly determined as being R. (S.) caudata Lundbeck 9 in the first part of this series, but additional material 9 Diptera groenlandica, Vidensk.
Meddel.
fra den naturh.
Foren., p. 267, PL 6, fig.
18 (1898); as a Goniomyia, subgenus Empeda.
shows that the species is distinct.
It serves to connect the generalized caudata with the specialized members of the subgenus {flava, parva).
The small cell R 2 and the elongate cell 1st .1/, with tinshort, divergent veins issuing from it, and the basal deflection of Cui inserted at nearly midlength of it serve to separate the form from caudata.
This latter species is described and figured in a publication that is not readily accessible to the student, and its venation is shown on Plate XXVII, fig.
42.
With caudata this new species agrees in the possession of the radial cross-vein, but this is here very faint and evidently in process of being eliminated.
In R. flava (Plate XXVII, fig.
43) the cross-vein is lacking.
In regard to the genus Rhabdomastix Skuse it will be noted that Kertesz gives the date of Skuse's paper on the Limnobinse as 1890; the first separates of this article are dated September 25, 1889, and it is this date that has been adopted.
PTEROCHIONEA gen. n. Palpi short, four-segmented, the segments • subequal.
Antennse 11-segmented, the first segment of the scape longer than the second; second segment narrow-subglobular, not strikingly wider than the adjacent segments; first segment of the flagellum elongate, taperingslight ly to the tip, formed by the fusion of five segments as determined by the verticils, near the tip with a faint suture that passes about half-way across the segment on the verticillate side; segments four to ten moderately elongated, cylindrical, truncated at both ends (Plate XXXI, fig.
93) with a strong series of verticils; terminal segment formed by the fusion of two segments as determined by the verticils.
Wings moderately broad (Plate XXVII, fig.
44); Sc moderately elongated ending just beyond the end of Rs, Sc 2 at its tip; Rs long, strongly arcuated at its origin; cross-vein r present; cell 1st M z elongate, the deflection of M 3 over twice the length of the median cross-vein; cell Mi present; basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M; second anal vein short, ending before the origin of the sector.
Legs hairy, not incrassated; tibiae without spurs.
Male hypopygium powerful (Plate X XXI.
fig.
94), suggesting the Chionea type, the pleural pieces stout, cylindrical, with a strong pleural appendage, somewhat curved, nearly as long as the pleurites; ventral lobe small, rounded, hairy.
Genotype.
— Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. (Western Nearctic region.)
This new genus is closest to Crypteria Bergroth 10 of the northern Pahearctic region in the curious fusion of the five basal segments of 10 .Ada Soc.
pro Faun.
r.
Finn., vol.
37, Xo.
6, pp.
3-7, figs.
1-4 (1913).
the antennae; however, this fusion-segment is merely elongated and does not show the elongate-conical shape of the segment in Crypteria and the even more accentuated condition of Chionea.
Specimens of Chionea valga Harris before me show eight flagellar segments beyond the fusion-segment, the basal ones short, becoming more and more attenuated toward the tip of the organ.
Therefore, in the reduction of the antemial segments by the fusion of the basal flagellar segments, Chionea also shows a very close relationship to Crypteria and Pterochionea.
I certainly think that Bergroth is right in surmising a relationship between his Crypteria and the abnormal, wingless Chionea, and Pterochionea may now be added to the list of possible CTmmea-precursors.
This interpretation would remove Chionea from the neighborhood of Trimicra and Symplecta and place it at the end of the Eriopterine series along with Cladura and the present genus.
The two winged genera of this group may be separated as follows: 1.
Antennae with the second segment enlarged, globular; the two apical segments of the flagellum entirely distinct; cross-vein r absent ; second anal vein very elongate, extending beyond midlength of the radial sector; hypopygium with the pleural pieces slender with two small, subequal appendages.
(Northwestern Palsearctic.)
Crypteria Bergroth.
Antennae with the second segment not enlarged; the two apical segments of the flagellum fused; cross-vein r present; second anal vein short, not reaching to the base of the sector; hypopygium with the pleural pieces stout-cylindrical with a strong, powerful dorsal appendage that is almost as long as the pleurite.
(Northwestern Nearctic.)
Pterochionea gen. n. Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. Antennae brown, of eleven segments; wings with cell Mi present; male hypopygium strong and powerful.
Male.
— Length, 5 mm.
; wing, 5.6 mm.
Fore leg, femur, 3.6 mm.
; tibia, 3.8 mm.
; hind leg, femur, 4.1 mm.
; tibia, 4 mm.
The species is described from alcoholic material.
Rostrum short, light brown; palpi brown.
Antennae dark brown; Head yellowish brown.
Thoracic dorsum dull yellow with indistinct darker stripes on the praescutum.
Pleura yellowish.
Halteres pale.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters pale yellow; femora light brownish yellow, a little darkened apically, the fore femora darker, being only a little paler at the base; tibiae and tarsi brown.
Wings nearly hyaline, the stigma indistinct; veins dark brown, subcosta pale.
Venation (Plate XXVII, fig.
44): basal deflection of TtVe very short or obliterated, the cross-vein r-m being correspondingly longer, arcuated; cell Mi short, about one-half as long as its petiole.
Abdomen short, the tergites dark brown, the hypopygium even darker.
Male hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig.
94) powerfully enlarged, the pleurites not conspicuously elongated ending in a rounded ventral lobe that is covered with numerous hairs; the single pleural appendage a powerful curved arm that is rather blunt at the tip, with numerous long hairs on the inner face and at the apex where they are exceedingly numerous and spinous, at the extreme apex very tiny.
Habitat.
— -British Columbia.
Holotype, d\ Rogers Pass, British Columbia, August 9, 1915 (Bradley).
Allotype, 9 , in copula with the type.
Type, mounted in balsam, in the collection of Cornell University.
This interesting crane-fly is dedicated to the collector, Dr. J. Chester Bradley, of Cornell University, to whom I am indebted for assistance and advice upon many subjects.
Tribe Limnophilini.
LIMNOPHILA Macquart.
Limnopkila Macquart; Suit a Buffon, vol.
1, Histoire Naturelle Dipteres, p. 94 (1834 i. Limnophila irrorata Johnson.
Limnophila irrorata Johnson; Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, vol.
34, No.
5, pp.
127, 128, PI.
16, fig.
17 (1909).
This interesting species was described from the unique female found floating dead in a water receptacle at Riverton, New Jersey, and had apparently not been found since that time.
The fly was rediscovered in 1915 while the author was searching for Venus fly-traps, Dioncea muscipula Ell., near Jacksonville, North Carolina.
The male sex is here described and the specimen made the allotype : Male.
— -Length 7.6-7.8 mm.
; wing, 7-7.3 mm.
Agrees closely with the female, but the head a little more brownish; petiole of cell R 2 of the wings very short, not as long as the r-m cross-vein; basal deflection of Cn x inserted beyond mid-length of cell 1st M t .
Allotype, , Camp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 9, 1915 (Alexander).
Allotype in the collection of the author.
The following notes on the natural habitat of the species may be given: At Camp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 9, 1915, •on a small branch of the New River.
The flies occurred in a typical sweet-gum swamp, the dominant forest cover being the Liquidambar, Ilex opaca, Quercus michauxi, Acer rubrum, Fraxinus sp., with considerable Liriodendron and a little Pinus tceda, growing in very wet to moist soil, and the undergrowth was very rank and luxuriant, consisting of the all-dominant lizards-tail, Saururus cernuus, from which plant the flies were swept; other plants, as Osmunda regalis, Onoclea sensibilis, Carpinus caroliniana and Callicarpa americana, being common.
The following crane-flies were associated with this species : Gonomyia sulphurella, rare; G. manca, common; Gnophomyia tristissima, uncommon; Epiphragma solatrix, rare; Limnophila macrocera, uncommon; L. tenuipes and luteipennis abundant; Penthoptera albitarsis, common; Brachypremna dispellens, abundant, many being heavily infested with a species of Trombidium; Oropeza subalbipes, rare; Tipula tricolor, common; T. perlongipes, rare; Bittacomorpha clavipes and Ptychoptera rufocincta, common.
It should be here noted that there is a Polymoria irrorata Philippi 11 that in all probability is a Limnophila and prior to the present species.
This apparent status of Polymoria has been pointed out by the author in another paper.
12 Limnophila strepens sp.
n. Head light gray with short, brown hairs; thorax yellowish brown with a darker median stripe on the prsescutum; legs brownish-yellow, the femora and tibiae not darkened at their apices.
Male.
— Length, about 12 mm.
; wing, 11.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennas short, light brown, the flagellar segments gradually narrowed and lengthened toward the tip of the organ; verticils long, black.
Head light gray with numerous, rather short brown hairs, inserted in blackish punctures.
Mesonotum light yellowish brown with a broad darker reddish brown median stripe; lateral stripes indistinct; lobes of the scutum reddish brown, their posterior margin and the scutellum more yellowish; postnotum pale reddish with a sparse gray bloom.
Pleura reddish brown with a sparse gray bloom.
Halteres pale, the knobs darker at their tips.
Legs with the coxae reddish yellow; trochanters dull yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow throughout; tarsi 11 Verh.
zool.-bot.
Ges.
Wien.
vol.
15, p. 608, PI.
23, fig.
3 (1865).
12 Proc.
U. S. National Museum, vol.
44, pp.
481, 490 and 547 (1913).
brown.
Wings subhyaline, costal region more yellowish; apex of the wing broadly* but indistinctly darkened; stigma prominent, dark brown; a pale brown seam on the deflection of R i+i .
Venation: L's moderate in length, somewhat angulated at its origin; R 2 ^ about equal to or a little shorter than that portion of R 2 before the radial cross-vein; r at the tip of Ri) basal deflection of Ciii under the middle of cell Is!
M 2 .
Abdominal tergites dull yellow, unmarked; sternites a little lighter yellow, the eighth segment and the caudal portions of the seventh a little more brownish.
Habitat.
— Western United States.
Holotype, d\ Marin County, California (Coll.
Hy.
Edwards, No.
814).
Type in the collection of the American Museum of Natural History.
Related to flavipila Doane which has the hairs on the head longer and light yellow 7 in color, the mesonotum darker brown, the pleura light gray, the tips of the femora and tibise dark brown, wings with a more yellowish tinge, especially near the costa, R 2 +z much shorter than that portion of R 2 before the radial cross-vein.
In flavipila the head and first antennal segment are light gray, not brown as described by Doane.
Limnophila edwardi sp.
n. Antennae elongated; cell Mi of the wings absent; thorax with dark stripes on the praescutum.
Male.
— Length, 7.2 mm.
; wing, 8 mm.
; antenna?
about 5 mm.
Rostrum dull yellow, the palpi brownish black.
Antennas dark brown, the flagellar segments greatly elongated with outspreading pubescence.
Head dark brownish black with a sparse grayish bloom.
Thorax brownish yellow, the praescutum with three broad, dark brown stripes, the middle one broadest, confluent behind with the short lateral stripes; scutum, scutellum and postnotum dark brown.
Pleura brownish yellow.
Halteres pale, the knobs darker, brown.
Legs with the coxae, trochanters and bases of the femora dull yellow; remainder of the legs dark brown.
'Wings with a faint brownish tinge; stigma elongate-oval, dark brown; veins dark brown.
Venation (Plate XXVII, fig.
45): Rs elongate, in a line with R 2+3 ; R 2+3 longer than the basal deflection of Cui\ cross-vein r at the fork of R 2+3 ; cell 3/i lacking.
Abdomen dark brown, the hypopygium more yellowish.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, cf, Simmons Woods, Gloversville, Fulton County, New York, altitude 900 feet, June 22, 1916 (Alexander).
This is the first Eastern species that has the antennae elongated and cell Mi of the wings lacking at the same time.
It bears a great resemblance to L. tenuipes Say, a species with cell Mi present and the venational details slightly different.
The type was taken in a cold woods with decided Canadian floral tendencies, in association with the following Tipulidse: Dicranomyia pubipennis, Ormosia monticola, 0. rubella, Erioptera stigmatica, Gonomyia florens, Limnophila toxoneura, L. areolata, L. alleni, L. fuscovaria, L. munda, Adelphomyia ?ninuta, Ula elegans, Rhaphidolabis rubescens, Tricyphona calcar, Tipula oropezoides, T. hermannia and T. monticola.
I dedicate this species to Thomas Edward, the eminent Scotch naturalist, the story of whose life and struggles 13 in the interests of natural science has always done much to encourage me in this work.
Limnophila sylvia sp.
n. Antennae short; cell Mi of the wings absent; thorax with dark stripes on the praescutum; pleura without stripes.
Male.
— Length, 5-5.5 mm.
; wing, 6.5-7.6 mm.
Rostrum brownish yellow, the palpi dark brown.
Antennae short, the scapal segments dull yellow, flagellum dark brown; flagellar segments oval.
Head brown with a sparse grayish bloom.
Thorax dull light yellow, the praescutum with three dark brown stripes, the lateral stripes confluent with the median stripe; scutum yellow with the lobes largely dark brown; scutellum yellow; postnotum brownish yellow.
Pleura yellow.
Halteres pale, the knobs brownish.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora dull yellow, the tips darker brown; tibiae yellowish brown, tipped with brownish; metatarsi brownish yellow, the remainder of the tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a slight grayish tinge; stigma rather indistinct, brownish; veins dark brown.
Venation (Plate XXVII, fig.
46): R2+3 rather elongated, about equal to the basal deflection of Cui) cross-vein r at the tip of Ri and situated on R 2 ; deflection of R 4 + 5 arcuated, nearer the wing-root than is the r-ra cross-vein; cell Mi absent; basal deflection of Ciii variable in position, at the fork of M, just beyond the fork of M to about one-third the length of the cell 1st M s .
Abdominal tergites dark brown; sternites dull brownish yellow, 13 Life of a Scotch Naturalist: Thomas Edward, associate of the Linnsean Society, by Samuel Smiles (Harper & Bros., 1877).
the caudal margins a little brighter; eighth and ninth sternites dark brown.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, d" , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 1,600 feet, June 13, 1916 (Alexander).
Paratopotypes, 2 cf's.
Type in the collection of the author.
This species was associated with Erioptera nyctops, and an account of the ecological conditions and associates will be found under the account of that species.
L. sylvia is quite distinct from any of the described species that lack cell Mi of the wings.
From the quadrata group it differs in having vein R 2 long, not tending to be oblique, deflection of R i+b nearer the wing-root than is r-m, basal deflection of Cih nearer to the base of cell 1st Mi, etc.
; from the lenta group it differs in the long sector; from emmelina, it differs in the petiolate cell R 2 , and from noveboracensis it differs in having Rs almost in a line with R 2 ^ 3 , the dark brown stripes on the praescutum, etc.
POLYMERA Wiedemann.
Polymera Wiedemann; Diptera exotica, vol.
1, p. 40 (1821).
Polymera georgiae Alexander.
Polymera georgice Alexander; Psyche, vol.
IS, pp.
199, 200, PL 16, fig.
5 (1911).
This is the only known species of the genus as yet found within our limits and, so far as known, it is confined to the southeastern United States.
P. obscura Macquart, of northern South America and Middle America, ranges into Cuba and may appear in the Miami section of Florida.
P. geniculata Alexander of Porto Rico is also regional.
The distribution of Polymera georgice is as follows: South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 1915 (Alexander).
Georgia, Decatur County, Spring Creek, July 20, 1912 (Bradley); Glynn County, St. Simons Island, April, May, 1911 (Bradley), the type-locality; Charlton County, Billy's Island, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20, 1912 (Bradley).
Florida, Dade County, Biscayne Bay (Slosson).
The only specimen that I have ever seen alive was taken in a saltmarsh palmetto association on South Island, South Carolina, at the east end of the causeway between South and Cat Islands.
The association was a palmetto island surrounded on the west by a perfect sea of the salt rush (J uncus Roemerianus).
The forest cover consisted of the dominant palmetto (Sabal Palmetto (Walt) R. & S.), live oak, Quercus virginiana, heavily draped with Spanish moss, Tillandsia, and the coast white cedar, Chamcecyparis thuyoides.
The shrubbery consisted of a mixed growth of Myrica carolinensis> common; Ilex vomitoria, several; Callicarpa americana, abundant, and two shrubby Composites, Iva frutescens and Borrichia frutescens r common.
The undergrowth from which the Tipulids were swept consisted of great beds of Polygonum punctatum, with a more sparse admixture of spike grass, Distichlis spicata; Hydrocotyle umbellata; and the Verbenaceous plants, Lippia nodiflora and Verbena caroliniana.
u The Tipulidse of the above floral association showed a strong Floridian tendency, the associates of Polymera being as follows: Dicranomyia distans, abundant; D. floridana, rare; Teucholabis carolinensis, rare; Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer, rare; G. (Gonomyella) slossonce, several; Erioptera {Mesocyphona) parva, abundant, and Brachypremna dispellens, common.
Tribe Pedicini.
TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt.
1838.
Tricyphona Zetterstedt; Insecta Lapponica, Dittera, p. Sol.
This genus, like the tribe Pedicini in general, has a northern distribution throughout the world.
There are seven species now known in the eastern United States which may be summarized as follows : Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII.
fig.
47.)
Canadian and Transitional-Canadian zones of the eastern United States and Canada.
One of our commonest and best-known craneflies, ranging from Ontario, Quebec and Newfoundland south (in the mountains) to Georgia and west to Michigan.
It is also recorded from Europe, but a very careful comparison with abundant material and a critical study of the male hypopygium must be made before these records can.be finally accepted.
The fly is abundant in swamps and low swales.
In New York and New England it is on the wing from May 12 to September 28, while in the vicinity of Washington it appears even earlier (Great Falls, Virginia, April 20, 1913 (Knab)).
Tricyphona calcar Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
48.)
Canadian life-zone of northeastern America, ranging from the Hudsons Bay region, Ontario and Quebec south (in the mountains) 14 I am indebted to Mr. W. L. McAtee, of the United States Biological Survey,, for his kindness in determining many of the above-listed plants.
to North Carolina.
It is a species of low swampy areas, though usually more wooded than that frequented by inconstans.
In NewYork and New England it flies from May 22 to October 1, being abundant in late May and early June, reappearing the latter half of July and being common throughout August and early September.
The late summer specimens probably represent a new species, the females having the wings very reduced in size.
Tricyphona auripennis Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
49.)
Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, known only from New Hampshire, Massachusetts (the type-locality) and New York.
It flies in June.
The only specimens ever seen alive by the author occurred at Indian Castle, Herkimer County, New York, June 10 to 13, 1915; they were found sitting motionless on the perpendicular face of a small cliff, lurking in small crevices of the rock.
The cliff is low, of Utica shale, completely saturated by percolating water and well-shaded by large hemlocks, arbor vitae,.
yellow birch, mountain maple, Cornus circinata, etc., and with a sparse vegetation of Impatiens biflora, Geranium Robertianum, Collinsonia canadensis, Cystopteris bulbifera and Equisetum arvense.
Tricyphona hyperborea Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
50.)
A fly of the Hudsonian and possibly the Canadian life-zones of northeastern America and still very rare in collections.
It was described from Labrador, and a few specimens have been taken on Mt.
Washington, New Hampshire; these specimens are in the collections of the Boston Society of Natural History and the United States National Museum.
Tricyphona katahdin Alexander.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
51.)
Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, a late summer species flying during the latter half of August.
Tricyphona vernalis Osten Sacker.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
52.)
Canadian and Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern United States.
One of our early-flying species, though appearing later, as a rule, than paludicola.
It ranges from Maine and New Hampshire south (in the mountains) to Georgia, and is found along small streams, temporary and permanent, where the water runs rapidly.
The flies may be swept from vegetation or are found in small swarms of eight to ten individuals near the water.
In New York and New England it is on the wing in late May, abundant in June and persisting into July.
Further south it flies in April or even the last of March, reappearing in late September.
Trioyphona paludicola sp.
n. (Plate XXVIII, fig.
53.)
Canadian-Transitional life-zone of the northeastern United States, as yet known only from New York.
It flies in early spring (May 7-20), and is found in swampy, stagnant localities.
Tricyphona paludicola sp.
n. Antenna?
dark brown throughout; head and thorax grayish brown, the mesonotal prsescutum with three dark brown stripes, the middle one split by a broad line of the ground-color; abdomen brown, the tergites uniform in color; wings almost unicolorous, the dark markings reduced to punctiform dots and narrow seams.
Male.
— Length, 7.6-8 mm.
; wing, 8.6-8.7 mm.
Female.
— Length, 10.5-10.9 mm.
; wing, 10.5-10.8 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae black, the flagellar segments shortened and gradually narrowed.
Head grayish brown.
Mesonotal prsescutum pale grayish brown with three dark brown stripes, the middle stripe very, broad and more or less bisected by a narrow, median vitta of the ground-color, lateral stripes short, narrow; scutum gray, the lobes with a rounded dark brown spot; scutellum and postnotum light gray.
Pleura light gray, the dorsopleural membranes pale brown.
Halteres light brown, the knobs dark brown.
Legs with the coxae reddish, gray pruinose ; trochanters brownish yellow; femora dark brown, the fore pair with the basal quarter a little brightened, middle pair with the basal third, hind pair with about the basal half brightened; tibia} and tarsi dark brown.
Wings grayish subhyaline, the costal cells more suffused, brownish yellow; tiny dark brown dots at Sc 2 , origin of Rs, tip of Sc h cross-vein r, above the fork of Rs, cross-vein r-m and a narrow seam along the basal deflection of Cur, paler gray clouds underneath the tip of R 2 +z and near the tip of 2nd A; veins dark brown, Sc more yellowish.
Venation (Plate XXVIII, fig.
53): distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about equal to the sector alone; Rs angulated and often spurred at origin; r at the tip of Ri) distance between the fork of Rs and cross-vein r-m about equal to that cross-vein; petiole of cell # 3 a little longer than r-m; cell 1st M 2 closed, long and narrow; cell Mi present, usually longer than its petiole; cross-vein m-cu present or barely obliterated by the fusion of the adjacent veins.
Abdominal tergites dark grayish brown; sternites similar with the basal segments indistinctly ringed with paler; hypopygium concolorous with the rest of the abdomen; valves of the ovipositor brownish yellow.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, d", McLean, Tompkins County, New York, May 13, 1916 (Alexander).
Allotype, ?
, with the type.
Paratopotypes, 24 tf's, 1 9 ; 1 d 1 , 1 9 , on May 20, 1916 (P. A. Claassen).
The type is in the collection of the author; Mr. Claassen has deposited his paratypes in the collection of the University of Kansas.
As is very frequent in this genus of flies, abnormalities of the wing-venation often occur; one male specimen has cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the median cross-vein in both wings; four other males in the series show adventitious cross-veins or spurs in various cells of the wings.
When Osten Sacken described Tricyphona vernalis, 15 he had only a male and a female specimen from Washington, D. C, taken in April, these showing the pale antenna!
bases, cingulated abdomen and heavily patterned wings that are characteristic of vernalis.
The specimens from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, were added in the Monographs, p. 271.
I am greatly indebted to Mr. C. W. Johnson for his kindness in examining the types of vernalis and making notes upon them.
Abundant material that I have determined as vernalis agree in all details with Osten Sacken's descriptions, except that the capillary median ground vitta on the prsescutum is less distinct than the description implies.
The gray or brownish gray species of this section of Tricyphona may be separated by the following key: 1.
Scape of the antennae yellowish or brownish yellow, the flagelluin much darker, dark brown; abdominal tergites brown, the margins of the segments pale producing a cingulated appearance; wings with large rounded clouds at the tips of the longitudinal veins and along the cross-veins vernalis Osten Sacken.
Scape of the antennae dark brown, concolorous with the flagellum; abdominal tergites brown, unbanded; wings with the pattern almost obsolete, reduced to tiny dots and seams paludicola, sp.
n. The following ecological notes on Tricyphona paludicola are taken from my field notes, dated May 13, 1916, 10-11 A.M., at the McLean bogs where we were engaged in making a biological survey of the region under the personal direction of Dr. James G. Needham.
15 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, pp.
291, 292, 1861, as Amalopis.
36 The species occurs in the Alnus association a short distance east of Round Pond, in company with Tipula dejecta Walker, the only other crane-fly on the wing at this date and hour.
The water is stagnant or nearly so with the little pools filled with an algal growth, kindly determined for me by Dr. J. R. Schramm, of Cornell University, as being near Microspora and Tribonema, abundant; (Edegonium sp.
and Spirogyra sp., the latter conjugating laterally, and some Mougeotia, Vaucheria, etc., with many Diatoms; in addition to these there is a dense growth of young seedlings of Impatiens hi flora.
The mud is so soft that it is necessary to wade knee-deep in order to explore this region.
There is still ice down underneath the stratum and the Alnus is just coming into leaf, allowing the sun to light up the ground underneath.
The dominant herbaceous plants at this time were Carex aquatilis, Saxifraga pennsylvanica, with the plants in bud and the stalks not more than six to nine inches high, and Caltha palustris in full flower.
There is no doubt but that the Tipula and the present species both emerged from the stagnant pools formed in the marsh adjoiningGrassy Creek.
Both species of crane-flies were common, but the Tipula was more in evidence by its larger size and habit of flying.
The Tricyphona was usually found resting on the saxifrage or on the inclined side of alder limbs, the males often fluttering about from place to place a short distance above the ground, never very rapidly.
The females were found resting on the alder stems, inactive, and the males were presumably searching for them.
In the afternoon when the warmth of the sun made itself felt, none of the Tricyphona and only a few of the Tipula were in evidence in this haunt, their places having been taken by dense swarms of Chironomiclae and a very few of the crane-fly, Erioptera septemtrionis Osten Sacken.
On May 20, Mr. P. A. Claassen found a male and a female in his tent-traps set near this place, proving that the immature stages are spent in the mud beneath.
RHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken.
Rhaphidolabis Osten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, pt, 4, p. 284 (1869).
Subgenus RHAPHIDOLABINA subgen.
n. Similar to Rhaphidolabis s. s., differing as follows: Antennae 15-segmented, the first eight segments of the flagellum normal, cylindrical, bearing strong hairs at about midlength, these alternating in their arrangement, being on the same face on the even segments; the ninth and eleventh segments are smaller and lie between the long, verticillate tenth and twelfth segments; thirteenth segment of the fiagellum long, sigmoid, bearing three long hairs at the apex.
Wings with the median cross-vein present, connecting M l+2 with .1/..
Type of the subgenus, Rhaphidolabis flaveola Osten Sacken.
The curious pallid fly that I have deemed best to separate from the other species of the genus is anomalous in many respects and may eventually be placed nearer to Tricyphona, where indeed it was provisionally assigned by Needham.
16 It is certainly more distinct from Rhaphidolabis than is Plectromyia which has herein been considered to have subgeneric value.
Under these circumstances it may be better to call the genus Plectromyia, that name having page-priority over Rhaphidolabis, but for the present the latter name has been retained.
The American species of the genus may be separated by the following key: 1.
Antennse 15-segmented; crossvein m present (subgenus Rhaphidolabina).
(Northeastern United States.)
flaveola Osten Sacken.
Antennse 13-segmented; cross-vein m absent 2 2.
Cell Mi absent (subgenus Plectromyia).
(Northeastern United States.)
modesta Osten Sacken.
Cell Mi present (subgenus Rhaphidolabis) 3 3.
Cell Rz petiolate 4 Cell R 2 sessile 6 4.
Wings whitish hyaline with a dark brown, oval stigma.
(Eastern Rocky Mountain region.)
neomexicana Alexander.
Wings without a clearly denned, dark brown stigma 5 5.
Antennse of the male elongated; Rs long, straight, the distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector being less than the length of the sector.
(Western United States.)
polymeroides Alexander.
Antennse of the male short; Rs short, arcuated, the distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about two times the length of the sector.
(Eastern United States.)
tenuipes Osten Sacken.
6.
Coloration grayish brown, the prsescutum with three dark brown stripes; abdomen dark brown with paler caudal margins to the segments; wings very pale brown, the radial sector very short, arcuated or angulated.
(Northeastern United States.)
cayuga sp.
n. 16 Twenty-third Report of the New York State Entomologist, PL 25, fig.
3, 1907. as Amalopis.
Coloration reddish brown, the prsescutum with three indistinct stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the hypopygium bright yellow; wings nearly hyaline, the radial sector somewhat elongated, arcuated.
(Northeastern United States.)
rubescens sp.
n. The following general statements may be made regarding these species : Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
54.)
Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada, Osten Sacken's Maryland type being the most southern record.
It is abundant from Ontario and Maine south to Maryland.
In New York and New England it flies from May 30 to September 21, being most numerous in June.
It may be looked for in cold, damp, shady places, such as along mountain streams and similar situations.
Rhaphidolabis (Plectromyiaj modesta Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
55.)
Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, known only from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, the type-locality, and the southern Adirondack Mountains, New York.
It is found along small mountain streams, flying in June.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) neomexicana Alexander.
Rocky Mountain region, known from two stations in Colorado and one in New Mexico.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) polymeroides Alexander.
Known only from the type-locality, Eureka, Humboldt County, California, May 22, 1903 (H. S. Barber).
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) tenuipes Osten Sacken.
(Plate XXVIII, fig.
56.)
Canadian and Canadian-Transitional life-zones of the eastern United States, from Maine to Georgia, flying in April and May in the south, a little later in the north, and reappearing in late summer.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) cayuga sp.
n. (Plate XXVIII, fig.
57.)
Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern United States.
This is the earliest species of the genus in the north, appearing on the wing in April and early May, reappearing in August.
In New York it comes with the very first of the early spring crane-flies, such as Ormosia nubila, 0. innocens, Limnophila brevifurca, Tipula collaris, T. dejecta, etc.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) rubescens sp.
n. (Plate XXVIII, fig.
58.)
Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, appearing on the wing a little later than does the last (the first half of June).
It is characteristic of cold Canadian woods near running water.
It is probable that, like the Last-named species, ii reappears in August as described under R. tenuipes, such species presumably 1 >eing double-brooded.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) cayuga Bp.
d. Head brownish gray; thorax grayish brown with three dark brown stripes; abdomen dark brown, the segments narrowly ringed with paler; wings palebrown; cell R 2 sessile, Rs very short, arcuated or angulated; cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the median cross-vein; cell Mi short.
Male.
— Length, 5-5.4 mm.
; wing, 6.3-6.6 mm.
I' < male.
— Length, 6.6 mm.
; wing, 7.7 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae dark brown, the flagellar segments short-cylindrical.
Head brownish gray.
Mesonotum grayish brown, the praescutum with three dark brown stripes, the middle stripe broadest, ending before the suture; lateral stripes narrow and less distinct; scutum light brown, the lobes largely dark brown; scutellum and postnotum dark with a heavy gray bloom.
Pleura dark brown with a gray bloom.
Halteres light yellow, the knobs dark brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters dark brown; femora similar, a little paler at the extreme base; tibiae and tarsi dark brown.
Wings with a light brown tinge, stigma a little darker but poorly defined, veins dark brown.
Venation (Plate XXVIII, fig.
57) : Sc long, Sc 2 far removed from its tip ; distance between Sc 2 and the origin of Rs about twice the length of the sector; Rs very short, arcuated, angulated, or sometimes spurred; cell Mi short and w r eak, tending to be evanescent, less than one-half the length of cell M s .
Abdominal segments dark browm, the caudal margins of the terminal segments narrowly ringed with paler; hypopygium brownish yellow.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, d", McLean, Tompkins County, New York, May 7.
1916 (Alexander).
Allotype, 9 , with the type.
Paratopotypes, 15 cf 9 ; paratype, 1 cf, near Johnstown, Fulton County, New York, August 19, 1916 (Alexander).
Type in the collection of the author.
This is the species figured by Needham under the name tenuipes, 17 the real tenuipes being shown in the same work, Plate 19, fig.
2.
"Twenty-third Report of the New York State Entomologist, PL 13, fig.
1 (1907).
The types occurred rather abundantly along a small woodland stream and were found commonly resting on the trunks of sugar maples, swarming out into the air at short intervals.
The species occurred with the following crane-fly associates : Ormosia innocens, 0. nubila, 0. rubella, Erioptera septemtrionis, Limnophila brevifurca, Adelphomyia ?ninuta, Ula elegans, Pedicia conterminata and Tipula dejecta.
Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) rubescens sp.
n. Head light silvery gray; mesonotum reddish, sparsely gray pruinose, with three indistinct brown stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the hypopygium bright yellow; wings nearly hyaline; -cell R 2 sessile; Rs arcuated, rather elongate; cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m; cell Mi moderate.
Male.
— Length, 5.3-5.5 mm.
; wing, 6.3-6.6 mm.
Female.
— Length 5.5-5.6 mm.
; wing, 6.5-7 mm.
Rostrum and palpi dark brown.
Antennae with the basal segments brown, sparsely grayish pruinose; praescutum with three indistinct brown stripes, lateral stripes less evident, median stripe narrowed behind and becoming indistinct at the suture; scutum with the lobes brownish gray, the median area dull reddish yellow; scutellum pale brownish yellow, gray pruinose; postnotum light reddish with a gray bloom.
Pleura light reddish with a sparse gray bloom.
Halteres pale, the knobs brown.
Legs with the coxae and trochanters light brownish yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow, the latter a little darkened towards their tips; tarsi brown.
Wings nearly hyaline, stigma very pale to indistinct, veins dark brown.
Venation (Plate XXVIII, fig.
58): Sc long, ending at nearly midlength of R 2 ; distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about twice the length of the latter; Rs rather long, strongly arcuated, but not angulated; cell R 2 sessile, sometimes broadly sessile; cross-vein r at the tip of Ri] cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m; cell M x present, about one-half as deep as cell M%.
Abdomen pale yellowish brown, the lateral margins more yellowish, the hypopygium bright yellow.
Habitat.
— Northeastern United States.
Holotype, d* , Simmons woods, Gloversville, Fulton County, New York, altitude 900 feet, June 22, 1916 (Alexander).
Allotype, 9 , topotypic, June 12, 1916.
Paratopotypes, 20 & 9 , June 9, 1914; June 12 to 22, 1916.
Type in the collection of the author.
The ecological conditions under which this species lives have been discu— id in the second part of this series of papers 18 under the account of Tipula cayuga Alexander.
A less detailed notice of the associates taken with the type will be found in the present paper under the account of Limnophila edwardi.
Family PTYCHOPTERLLX&2.
BITTACOMORPHA Westwood.
Bittacomorpha Westwood; London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science, vol.
(i, p. 281 (1S35).
Subgenus BITTACOMORPHELLA subgcn.
n. Agrees with Bittacomorpha s. s., but the apical cells of the wings with a sparse, strong pubescence, including the tip of cell Sc, all of 2nd Ri, tips of R 3 , R t , R& and 2nd M; in B. sackeni Roder, the pubescence is even more extensive, including the end of cell C, first Ri, all of cell R 4 , almost the outer half of cells R 3 and R&, and the ends of 2nd M and Cur, metatarsi of the legs not swollen.
A correlated character is the lack of a white ring near the base of the metatarsi.
Type of the subgenus, Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson.
There are four species of this genus now r known, two belonging to each subgenus, and their general distribution, seasonal and geographical, may be summarized as follows: Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorpha) clavipes Fabricius.
The "Phantom Crane-fly" is one of our commonest and bestknown species.
It is a fly of the Canadian-Transitional to the Austral zones and has a wide range throughout America east of the Rockies, from Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland south to Florida, west to Manitoba and South Dakota.
In New York and New England it is on the wing from May 17 to September 23, being common throughout the summer; in the southern part of its range it appears as early as February.
The flies are abundant in low r , wet swales, swamps, and along lakes and ponds.
The curious rust-red lava with an extensile breathing tube is as remarkable as the adult fly.
Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorpha) occidentalis Aldrich.
Western United States, ranging from Washington to California, the latter records being for mid-May.
Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorphella) jonesi Johnson.
A fly of the Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, 18 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelihia, p. 4, September, 1915. ranging from Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont south (in the mountains) to Mt.
Toxoway, North Carolina, the type-locality.
In New York and New England it flies from June 11 to August 31, being quite numerous in suitable localities throughout the latter half of June and all of July.
It is found in cool, shady spots, usually near running water or springs, being very often found in small dark ravines or along shaded runs.
They frequently lurk under dark culverts after the fashion of Dolichopeza and Oropeza.
Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorphella) sackenii Roder.
Northwestern United States and western Canada, ranging from Queen Charlotte Isle, British Columbia, south to California and east to Colorado.
The records indicate that the insect is on the wing in June and early July.
The species of Bittacomorpha may be separated by the following key: 1.
Wings with the apical cells without a strong pubescence; metatarsi swollen and white basally.
(Subgen.
Bittacomorpha.)
2 Wings with the apical cells with a sparse strong pubescence; metatarsi not swollen, and without white near the base.
(Subgen.
Bittacomorphella.)
3 2.
Dorsum of thorax deep velvety black with a white median line; cell Ra of the wings one-third as long as R b .
(Eastern North America.)
clavipes Fabricius.
19 Dorsum of thorax shiny black without a white median line; cell Ri of the wings one-half as long as R&.
(Western United States.)
occidentalis Aldrich.
20 3.
Tibia?
and metatarsi dark brownish black without white (except the extreme tip of the latter in some specimens), segments two and three of the tarsi pure white.
(Western North America.)
sackenii Roder.
21 Tibiae black with a broad white band beyond the base; metatarsi with more or less white at the tip, broadest on the fore legs, narrowest on the hind legs; segments two and three of the tarsi pure white.
(Northeastern United States.)
jonesi Johnson.
22 Explanation of Plates XXV to XXXI.
Plate XXV.
— Fig.
1.
— Wing of Geranomyia canadensis West wood.
Fig.
2.
— Wing of G. distincta Doane.
Fig.
3.
— Wing of G. intermedia Walker.
Fig.
4.
— Wing of G. diversa Osten Sacken.
Fig.
5.
— Wing of G. tibialis Loew.
19 Tipula clavipes Fabricius; Spec.
Insect., vol.
2, p. 404 (1781).
20 Bittacomorpha occidentalis Aldrich; Psyche, vol.
7, p. 201 (1895).
21 Bittacomorpha sackenii Roder; Wien.
Entom.
Zeit., p. 230 (1890).
22 Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson; Psyche, vol.
12, pp.
75, 76 (1905).
Fig.
<>.
— Wing of G. lachrymalis Alexander.
Fig.
7.
-Wing of G. rostrata Saj .
Fig.
8.
Wing of G. ibis sp.
a.
Fig.
9.
-Wing of G. insignia Loew.
Fig.
10.
-Wing of Dicranoptycha germana Osten Sacken.
Fig.
11.
— Wing nf I), sobrina <>>ten Sacken.
Fig.
L2.
-Winy, nt' l>.
winnemana sp.
n. Fig.
13.
— Wing of Rhamphidia flavipes Macquart.
Fig.
14.
— Wing of R. mainensis sp.
n. Fig.
1").
-Wing of Teuckolabis complexa Osten Sacken.
Fig.
Hi.
— Wing of T. lucida Alexander.
Plate XXVI.
-Fig.
17.
— Wins of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) aUxanderi Johnson.
Fig.
IS.
— -Wing of G. (L.) cinerea Doane.
Fig.
19.
-Wing of G. (L.) sacandaga Alexander.
Fig.
20.
— Wing of G. (L.) pleuralis Williston.
Fig.
21.
— Wing of G. (L.) puer Alexander.
Fig.
22.-Wing of G. (L.) manca Osten Sacken.
Fig.
23.
— Wing of G. (Gonomyia) mathesoni Alexander.
Fig.
24.
— Wing of G. (G.) blanda Osten Sacken.
Fig.
25.
— Wing of G. (G.) calif ornica Alexander.
Fig.
26.
— Wing of G.
((?.)
svlphurella Osten Sacken.
Fig.
27.
— Wing of G. (G.) flavibasis Alexander.
Fig.
28.— Wing of G. (G.) florens Alexander.
Fig.
29.
— Wing of G. (G.) cognatella Osten Sacken.
Fig.
30.
— Wing of G. (G.) noueboracensis Alexander.
Fig.
31.
— Wing of G. (G.) filicauda Alexander.
Fig.
32.
— Wing of G. (G.) virgata Doane.
Fig.
33.
— Wing of G. (G.) subcinerea Osten Sacken.
Plate XXVII.— Fig.
34.
— Wing of Erioptera (Erioptera) laticeps sp.
n. Fig.
35.
— Wing of E. (Mesocyphona) tantilla sp.
n. Fig.
36.
— Wing of E. (Empeda) nyctops sp.
n. Fig.
37.
— Wing of Molophilus fultonensis sp.
n. Fig.
38.
— Wing of M. nova-ccesariensis sp.
n. Fig.
39.
— Wing of M. ursinus Osten Sacken.
Fig.
40.
— Wing of Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander d".
Fig.
41.
— Wing of Rhabdomaslix (Sacandaga) nionticola sp.
n. Fig.
42.
— Wing of R. (S.) caudata Lundbeck.
Fig.
43.
— Wing of R. (S.) flava Alexander.
Fig.
44.
— Wing of Pterochionea bradleyi sp.
n. Fig.
45.
— Wing of Limnophila edwardi sp.
n. Fig.
46.
— Wing of L. sylvia sp.
n. Plate XXVIII.
— Fig.
47.
— Wing of Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken.
Fig.
48.
— Wing of T. calcar Osten Sacken.
Fig.
49.
— Wing of T. auripennis Osten Sacken.
Fig.
50.
— Wing of T. hyperborea Osten Sacken.
Fig.
51.
— Wing of T. katahdin Alexander.
Fig.
52.
— Wing of T. vernalis Osten Sacken.
Fig.
53.
— Wing of T. paludicola sp.
n. Fig.
54.
— Wing of Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola Osten Sacken.
Fig.
55.
— Wing of R. (Plectromyia) modesta Osten Sacken.
Fig.
56.
— Wing of R. (Rhaphidolabis) tenuipes Osten Sacken.
Fig.
57.
— Wing of R. (R.) cayuga sp.
n. Fig.
58.
— Wing of R. (R.) rubescens sp.
n. Plate XXIX.
— Fig.
59.
— Hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) alexanderi; dorsal aspect of the pleural appendages; d = dorsal appendage; v = ventral appendage.
Fig.
60.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) helophila Alexander; dorsal aspectTof the pleural appendages; lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
61.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) alexanderi; ventral aspect of the pleural appendages; lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
62.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) cinerea; ventral aspect of the pleural appendages; lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
63.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) puer; dorsal aspect of right pleurite; p.gd.
= penis-guard.
Fig.
64.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) manca; dorsal aspect of right pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
63.
Fig.
65.
— Hypopygium of G. (L.) manca; lateral aspect; lettering as in Fig.
63.
Fig.
66.
— Hypopygium of G. (Gonomyia) californica; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Figs.
59 and 63.
Fig.
67.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) californica; ventral aspect; lettering as in Figs.
59 and 63.
Fig.
68.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) blanda; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; • lettering as in Fig.
59.
Fig.
69.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) blanda; ventral aspect of the ventral appendage of the pleurite.
Fig.
70.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) svlphurella; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite.
Fig.
71.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) florens; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; k = dorsal fleshy knob; d = first or dorsal appendage; 2 = second pleural appendage; 3 = third or ventral pleural appendage.
Fig.
72.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) florens; lateral aspect of the penis-guard.
Fig.
73.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; lateral aspect of the penis-guard.
Fig.
74.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
71.
Fig.
75.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; lateral aspect of the pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
71.
Plate XXX.
— Fig.
76.
— Hypopygium of Gonomyia (Gonomyia) flavibasis; dorso-lateral aspect.
Fig.
77.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) flavibasis; ventral aspect of the pleural appendages.
Fig.
78.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) flavibasis; apex of the ventral appendages.
Fig.
79.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensis; pleural appendages, ventral aspect.
Fig.
80.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensis; ventral aspect of the left side of the penis-guard and the gonapophyses ; a, b, c = horns of the fused cylinder.
Fig.
81.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) filicauda; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; d = dorsal pleural appendage; v = ventral pleural appendage.
Fig.
82.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) filicauda; lateral aspect of the penis-guard.
Fig.
83.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
81.
Fig.
84.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; ventral aspect of the left side of the penis-guard.
Fig.
85.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; dorsal pleural appendage.
Fig.
86.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) cequalis Alexander; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite: lettering as in Fig.
81; a.t. = anal tube.
Fig.
87.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) virgata; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
81; 2 = second pleural appendage.
Fig.
88.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) unicolor Alexander; ventral aspect of the penis-guard and the gonapophyses; p.gd.
= penis-guard; a = subtending arm; g= gonapophyse.
Fig.
89.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) unicolor; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Fig.
81.
Fig.
90.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) mexicana Alexander; ventral aspect of the penis-guard; lettering as in Fig.
88.
Fig.
91.
— Hypopygium of G. (G.) mexicana; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; lettering as in Figs.
81 and 87.
PLATE XXV.
ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
PLATE XXVI.
ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
PLATE X ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
PLATE XXVIII.
52 55 ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
PLATE XXX.
ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
PLATE XXXI.
ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
plate :■: ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES.
Plate XXXI.— Fig.
92.
-Habit of Pterochionca bradleyi, with the wings and middle leg removed.
Fig.
93.
-Antenna of Pterochionea bradleyi.
Fig.
94.
— Hypopygium of Pterochionea bradleyi; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite.
Fig.
95.
— Hypopygium of Molophilus fultonensis; ventral aspect of the ventral pleural hook.
1'i-i.
( .H'>.
— Hypopygium of M. fultonensis; lateral aspect.
pj„ 97.— Hypopygium of Erioptera laticeps; dorsal aspect; 9t = ninth tergite; pi — ninth pleurite.
Fig.
98.— Hypopygium of E. nyctops; dorsal aspect; a, b, c = pleural appendages.

