



PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume lxvi 



1914 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



' LOGAN SQUARE 



1915 






\ 





The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



January 30, 1915. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1914 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-48 March 31, 1914. 



49-192 April 11, 1914. 



" 193-224 April 21, 1914. 



" 225-290 June 3, 1914. 



" 291-434 June 25, 1914. 



" 435-530 August 5, 1914. 



" 531-546 August 25, 1914. 



" 547-554 September 19, 1914. 



" 555-602 November 24, 1914. 



" 603-618 December 9, 1914. 



" 619-666 January 23, 1915. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Wither Stone, A.M., Sc.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The President, Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



7 / K 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Alexander, Charles P. New or little-known craneflies 

 from the United States and Canada. Tipulidse, Diptera 

 (Plates XXV-XXVII) 579 



Andrews, Roy Chapman. Notice of a rare ziphioid whale, 

 Mesoplodon densirostris, on the New Jersey Coast 

 (Plates XVI-XVIII) 437 



Banks, Nathan. New neuropteroid insects, native and exotic 



(Plate XXVIII) 608 



Barringer, Daniel Moreau. Further notes on Meteor 



Crater, Arizona (Plates XXI-XXIII) 556 



Boyer, Charles S. A new diatom (Plate X) 219 



Brown, Amos P., and Henry A. Pilsbry. Fresh-water mol- 



lusks of the Oligocene of Antigua (Plate IX) 209 



Cockerell, T. D. a. Miocene fossil insects 634 



Crawley, Howard. Two new Sarcosporidia 214 



The evolution of Sarcocystis muris in the intestinal cells 

 of the mouse (Plate XV) 432 



Fow^LER, Henry W. Fishes from the Rupununi River, British 



Guiana 229 



Description of a new Blenny from New Jersey, with notes 



on other fishes from the Middle Atlantic States 342 



Fishes collected by the Peary Relief Expedition of 1899 359 



Fox, Henry. Data on the orthopteran faunistics of eastern 



Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey 441 



Heath, Harold. Certain features of Solenogastre develop- 

 ment 535 



Keeley, Frank J. Notes on some igneous rocks at Ogunguit, 



Maine, and Pigeon Cove, Mass 3 



McIndoo, N. E. The olfactory sense of Hymenoptera (Plates 



XI, XII) 294 



The scent-producing organs of the honey-bee (Plates 

 XIX, XX) 542 




IV CONTENTS 



PAGE 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Description of a new echinoderm (Plate 



VIII) 206 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., and Amos P. Brown. The method of 



progression in Truncatella (Plate XIV) 426 



List of land and fresh-water moUusks of Antigua 429 



PouLTON, Edward B. Mimicry in North American Ij utter- 

 flies. A reply (Plate V) 161 



Reese, Albert M. The vascular system of the Florida 



Alligator (Plate XIII) 4ia 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard. A study of the 

 species of the genus Dichopetala (Orthoptera, Tetti- 



goniidse) ' 64 



On the Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in 

 extreme southern Florida, II 373 



Smith, Burnett. Morphologic sequences in the canaliculate 



fulgurs (Plate XXIV) 567 



Spaeth, Reynold A. The distribution of the genus Cyclops 

 in the vicinity of Haver ford, Pennsylvania (Plates 

 I-IV) 20' 



Stone, Witmer. On a collection of mammals from Ecuador ^ 



Thompson, Joseph C. Contributions to the anatomy of the 



Ilysiidse 285 



Vanatta, E. G. Land and fresh-water shells from eastern 



Canada 222 



Montana shells 367 



Wardle, H. Newell. Description of a Tsantsa in the 

 ethnological collection of the Academy, with notes on 

 another specimen (Plates VI, VII) 197 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1914. 



January 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the 

 following titles had been presented for publication in the Proceed- 

 ings: 



"Notes on some igneous rocks at Ogunquit, Maine, and Pigeon 

 Cove, Mass.," by Frank J. Keeley (December 30, 1913). 



"Conspicuous flowers rarely visited by insects," bj^ John H. 

 Lowell (January 2). 



"Mimicry in North American butterflies: A reply," by Edward 

 B.'Moulton (January 9). 



The death of Silas Weir Mitchell, M.D., a member, January 4, 

 was announced. 



The Council reported the following appointments: 



Committee on Finance. — John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin S. 

 Dixon, Effingham B. ^lorris, James D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 



On Library. — Thomas Biddle, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 

 Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, and Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D. 



On Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.AL, 

 Sc.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, and Edward J. 

 Nolan, M.D. 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Charles Morris, Henry Tucker, M.D., George S. Morris, and Stew- 

 ardson Brown. 



Solicitor of the Academy.— George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections. — Frank J. 

 Keeley. 



Custodian of the Isaac Lea Collections.— Joseph Willcox. 



The President of the Academy is ex officio a member of all Com- 

 mittees. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made an illustrated communication 

 on epiphytic Bromeliads of Costa Rica and their animal inhabitants. 

 (No abstract.) 



Mr. Arthur Howell Napier was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



NOTES ON SOME IGNEOUS ROCKS AT OGUNQUIT, MAINE, AND PIGEON 



COVE, MASS. 



BY FRANK J. KEELEY. 



It would probably be difficult to find a more remarkable display of 

 igneous rocks than that along the coast of Maine south of Ogunquit. 

 Here for a couple of miles the shale, dipping nearly vertically, is 

 penetrated by almost innumerable dikes, varying from a few inches 

 to over fifty feet in thickness and showing great variety in color and 

 texture. 



The shale itself, as the result of these numerous intrusions, has 

 been metamorphosed and indurated until it is frequently as hard 

 as the igneous dikes. Fresh fractures are usually gray with faint 

 indications of differently constituted lamina, but on the weathered 

 surfaces the various layers assume different colors, often producing 

 a decidedly striped appearance resembling banded jasper, Ijecoming 

 particularly noticeable in the rounded pebbles occasionally lining 

 the shore. Numerous ramifying veins of white and yellow quartz 

 further characterize the shales, and the extremely rugged character 

 of the coast line, with several coves and an overhanging cliff exceeding 

 fifty feet in height, together with the almost unlimited variation 

 in color due to weathering of the shale and its igneous intrusives, has 

 resulted in this section becoming a favorite haunt of artists. From 

 early times it has likewise attracted the attention of geologists, and 

 in the first geological survey of Maine, published in 1838, Charles T. 

 Jackson gives considerable space to the description of the features 

 of this district and calls attention to the manner in which some of 

 the dikes intersect each other, as indicating that the igneous intru- 

 sions can be referred to at least three periods. 



During the past summer, with the view of becoming better 

 acquainted with the petrographical character of these rocks, I 

 collected a number of specimens, from which I have since prepared 

 sections and studied them microscopically. The locality receiving 

 particular attention was a small cove on Israel's Head, between the 

 mouth of the Ogunquit River and Lobster Point. Here a patch of 

 sand beach, used by the guests of the Ontio and Lookout Hotels 

 as a bathing place, is surrounded by the usual shales of the region, 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



penetrated by several dikes and intrusions of igneous rocks. A 

 series of these rocks was collected and this particular place selected 

 for the purpose, not only because the intrusions seemed to include the 

 principal types of igneous rocks, but also for the reason that they are 

 located where they can be readily identified from the description by 

 anyone interested. 



Commencing with the rocky point which extends out to low-water 

 mark on the north of the bathing beach, this is penetrated by a dike 

 about twelve feet thick of diabase porphyrite with phenocrysts of 

 plagioclase too much zoizitised for specific identification, in a matrix 

 of diabasic texture, composed of augite, biotite, plagioclase, and 

 chlorite, the latter apparently altered pyroxene; also as accessory 

 constituents, titanite, apatite, and secondary calcite. Dr. F. Bascom, 

 who kindly looked over these sections wath me, suggests that the 

 reason much of the pyroxene is entirely fresh or in part altered to 

 hornblende, while in other cases it is completely replaced by chlorite, 

 is probably that there may have been two distinct varieties of pyrox- 

 ene originally present, one more readily altered than the other. 

 Near contact with the shale, this dike becomes basaltic in texture, a 

 fine-grained mixture of feldspar, biotite, magnetite, and bro^vn horn- 

 blende, the latter no doubt replacing primary pyroxene, with pheno- 

 crysts having the outlines of pyroxene, almost invariably completely 

 altered to chlorite. 



A short distance toward the south, in the rocky wall back of the 

 beach, is a twelve-inch dike of diabase with a small branch dike 

 forking from it. Except that it contains a few small vesicles filled 

 with secondary calcite, this is a typical diabase, fine and uniformly 

 grained. Beyond it is a dike of basalt, four to eight inches thick. 

 At the contact it is glassy, with lath-shaped feldspars oriented parallel 

 to the wall. The interior is more completely crystalline, with 

 phenocrysts of pyroxene altered to chlorite and many small, rounded 

 patches of calcite, apparently filling vesicles. 



Further south is an irregular angular intrusion of trachyte. It 

 consists almost exclusively of intermeshed rods of feldspar, apparently 

 orthoclase somewhat kaolinized, with scattered patches of ferru- 

 ginous material slightly translucent and dark red in color when 

 sufficiently thin, also generally red by reflected light. This rock 

 corresponds in texture to the dyke rocks which have received the 

 name of bostonite, but in the absence of any microscopical evidence 

 of the presence of anorthoclase, a chemical analysis would probably 

 be necessar}' to determine whether it should be so classed. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



Next comes another dike of diabase, characterized by the presence 

 of considerable pjTite, which occurs in rounded aggregates, filling 

 the interstices between crystals of augite and plagioclase. It also 

 contains vesicular cavities averaging about a millimeter in diameter, 

 filled with calcite and a little quartz, margined by acicular secondary 

 hornblende. 



Somewhat south of the beach is a large intrusion having an irregu- 

 larly rhomboidal outline, consisting of trachyte porphyry with large 

 orthoclase phenocrysts in a felsitic matrix containing some horn- 

 blende and a little quartz. 



Four sections were made from specimens of the shale associated 

 wdth dikes mentioned, one broadly striped, another showing finer 

 laminations, and the remaining two of rather uniform texture. All 

 are highly silicious, including quartz grains up to a half millimeter 

 in diameter scattered among finer grains of quartz and some secondary 

 minerals, chiefly micas, sometimes biotite, and in one sample, a bright 

 green mica. The extent of metamorphosis is indicated by apparent 

 metosomatic penetration of the secondary minerals into some of the 

 primary quartz grains. Striping, when present, is due to the concen- 

 tration of such secondary minerals in layers, which in the original 

 sediment were probably less purely silicious than the rest. 



Beyond a gully south of Lobster Point is a very noticeable dike 

 about five feet in diameter, transected at an acute angle by another 

 of same size. The first may be classed as a diabase porphyrite and 

 contains vesicles about a millimeter in diameter such as characterize 

 so many of the dikes here, but in this case there is about as much 

 quartz as calcite in the cavities, while generally the filling is entirely 

 of calcite. This rock also contains much pyrite in the form of isolated 

 grains in the interior of the dike, but in clouds of minute particles 

 several millimeters across, in the basaltic textured rock near the 

 contact. The other dike is an olivine diabase, notable for numerous 

 large idiomorphic phenocrysts of olivine now completely altered to 

 serpentine of unusually high double refraction, apparently consisting, 

 in part at least, of chrysotile, showing development along irregular 

 cracks, so characteristic of the alteration process in olivine. 



Possibly a mile further south, beyond Perkin's Cove, there is 

 exposed on the shore an extensive intrusion of diabase, under which 

 there is a water-worn cave between tide levels, locally known as the 

 Devil's Kitchen. This rock is a rather coarse-grained diabase with 

 some primary biotite, in which the augite is perfectly fresh, but 

 another ferro-magnesian constituent originally present has been 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



completely altered to a brown serpentine-like material sometimes 

 apparently mixed with felted masses of biotite and chlorite. This 

 may have been an orthorhombic pyroxene, as slight traces of it 

 remaining in the heart of a couple of the brown areas showed parallel 

 extinction, and it has none of the characteristics of olivine. In 

 addition to the usual magnetite, apatite is present as an accessory 

 mineral, but not at all plentifully. 



While the indurated shale is continuous along the sea coast for a 

 couple of miles south of Ogunquit, granite outcrops at a number of 

 places not far back from the shore, as at Pine Hill and further to the 

 west at Mt. Agamenticus. It is hornblendic at the outcrops noticed, 

 but I did not collect or further study any specimens. Some additional 

 collections of dyke rocks were, however, made just north of Ogunquit 

 on the road to Portland. Here, in widening the road, several outcrops 

 have been cut away, leaving fresh exposures. One such is located 

 on east side of road about one-eighth mile north of the car barn and 

 shows three different igneous rocks penetrating or in contact with 

 each other. Toward the south, there is first a gray, medium fine- 

 grained diabase, then a compact black basalt. A section of the 

 contact demonstrates that the basalt was a later flow than the 

 diabase. Next to it comes a coarse diabase porphyrite with feldspar 

 phenocrysts, sometimes exceeding an inch in length; and beyond this 

 another fine-grained diabase, and then indurated shale similar to that 

 described from the shore. 



On the west side of the road, one-eighth mile further toward the 

 north, is another good exposure of diabase porphyrite, in which the 

 phenocrysts are developed to an extent that they appear to make 

 up more than half the rock, in contact with basalt of later origin. 



For comparison, I give the following brief description of igneous 

 rocks at Pigeon Cove, Mass., where years ago I collected and studied 

 specimens from the dikes along a similar short section of the shore. 

 The end of Cape Ann consists of light gray hornblende granite, 

 quarried extensively for commercial purposes. Its feldspar is 

 almost exclusively microcline and the hornblende is generally accom- 

 panied by ])iotite. This granite is penetrated by many igneous 

 dikes, although these are not so numerous or varied in character as 

 those at Ogunquit. 



Near the extreme point of the cape, known as Andrew's Point, 

 below an unfinished square stone tower, is a dike of solvsbergite, 

 a uniformly crystalline mixture of jilagioclase with hornblende 

 allowing pleochroism from olive to indigo-blue, much finer grained in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



an offshoot which extends into a parallel crack in the granite. A 

 block of granite which has been picked up by the molten dike rock 

 is exposed in the interior of the latter. 



East of this is an extensive intrusion of quartz porphyry, so classed 

 from the general characteristics of the whole mass, rather than from 

 the microscopical examination of individual sections, some of which 

 would otherwise rank as fine-grained granites, while others show a 

 few phenocrysts and patches of micro-pegmatite. Within this 

 intrusion are segregations containing crystals of hornblende several 

 inches long and large masses of blue quartz. It has been injected 

 with diorite, but as it does not split in straight lines like the granite, 

 no regular dike is exposed. The diorite has forced its way irregularly 

 among the fragments of the older rock, some of which are included 

 in it. The diorite consists of a fine-grained mixture of hornblende, 

 biotite, and triclinic feldspar, with a few phenocrysts of zoizitised 

 plagioclase and occasionally a small one of light colored pyroxene. 

 It is intersected by numerous small white veins, no doubt of secondary 

 origin, and consisting in one section examined of feldspar, both 

 orthoclase and plagioclase, and light colored pyroxene. 



To the south, the dike of solvsbergite, which crosses the point, 

 again appears, and further on a sharply defined dike of quartz 

 porphyry several feet thick. Still further south are three small 

 dikes of diorite, differing from that at the point in several minor 

 respects. There is but little biotite, and the hornblende is of a bluish- 

 green color. No veins were noted, and the smallest dike, which is 

 l3ut a few inches thick, is very fine-grained and free from phenocrysts. 

 They are probably all derived from the same source. 



Beyond them comes another series of dikes, all no doubt of similar 

 origin. They are, respectively, two to three inches, twenty-eight 

 inches, sixteen inches, and eighteen feet in thickness, the latter just 

 below the Ocean View Hotel, while further on is still another nearly 

 as large. The larger dikes are typical fully crystallized diabases, 

 coarser or finer grained according to size of dike, with unaltered 

 constituents and basaltic texture near the contacts. The two- to 

 three-inch dike is basaltic throughout. It passes close to a swimming 

 pool blasted out of the rocks, and is visible over the sloping shore 

 for a couple of hundred feet, occupying a crack in the granite as 

 straight and sharply defined as if cut with a knife. 



The sixteen-inch dike is admirably adapted for illustrating the 

 effect of quick or slow cooling on an igneous rock, as it has an offshoot 

 or branch, three-eighths to two inches thick, extending into the 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jan., 



granite. Where three-eighths to one-half inch thick, chips of the rock 

 are procurable which permit of sections being made showing the 

 granite penetrated by the small dike. Here the matrix is an almost 

 opaque glass with plagioclase rods and phenocrysts of augite. When 

 it becomes three-fourths inch thick, a slight tendency toward crystal- 

 lization of the matrix is noticeable in the centre, "and so on until the 

 middle of the main dike is reached, where but little trace of the 

 basaltic texture remains and the rock is a characteristic diabase. 

 A similar series of sections can of course be made by starting from 

 the contact in one of the larger dikes, but the transition from basalt 

 to diabase is much more sudden. 



Two other rocks occurring nearby, but not appearing on the shore 

 line just considered, are worthy of mention. One is a highly por- 

 phyritic andesite with phenocrysts sometimes two inches long, 

 indicated by their extinction angles to be oligoclase, in a matrix 

 consisting of uralite, biotite, and plagioclase. This rock is not well 

 exposed at Pigeon Cove. I have noted an outcrop in a door yard 

 near centre of village and another in a hollow west of what is known 

 as Sunset Rock, but across Sandy Bay it appears as a sharply defined 

 dike in the granite, on the shore between Rockport and Straits- 

 mouth. As the granite here seems capable of cleaving in a straight 

 line for an indefinite distance and the three exposures are approxi- 

 mately in line, although widely separated, they may all pertain to 

 the same dike. The other rock referred to occurs in a cut leading 

 from the shore to the Rockport Quarry, near the archway under 

 main road. It is a light brown crystalline rock which proved to 

 consist entirely of micro-pegmatite, the best example I have seen of 

 this intergrowth of quartz and microcline. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



ON A COLLECTION OF MAMMALS FROM ECUADOR. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads made a collecting trip to Ecuador, February- 

 July, 1911, and secured a valuable series of vertebrates. His entire 

 collection was purchased by the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, and reports on the fishes and reptiles have already 

 appeared in the Proceedings.^ The mammals, comprising sixty- 

 eight specimens, referable to nineteen species, were obtained for the 

 most part on the paramo and the region immediately below, on 

 Mt. Pichincha, 10,000-13,000 feet, while a few additional specimens 

 were obtained from the mountains above Chambo, from the Pagma 

 forest near Chunchi, 7,000 feet, and from Bucay, province of Guayas, 

 975 feet. 



As the Academy previously possessed no mammals whatever from 

 the Andes, the satisfactory identification of much of Mr. Rhoads' 

 material was rendered impossible until such specimens could be 

 secured for comparison. Upon his return from Peru, Mr. Wilfred H. 

 Osgood, being anxious to make comparisons with certain Ecuador 

 species, generously offered to compare Mr. Rhoads' specimens with 

 the series in the Field Museum in return for their use in the identifica- 

 tion of his Peruvian mammals. This he has done and has given me 

 his opinion as to their relationships. 



The American Museum has, through Dr. .J. A. Allen, curator 

 of mammals, loaned me specimens of Blarina thomasi and B. squami- 

 pes for purposes of comparison and the U. S. National Museum a. 

 series of Scinrus hoffmanni. 



For this aid I would extend my sincere thanks especially to Mr. 

 Osgood, without whose co-operation this paper could not have been 

 prepared. 



Mr. Rhoads has kindly furnished me with some field notes on 

 Ccenolestes and other interesting species which are duly credited. 



1. Ichthyomys soderstromi de Winton. 



Ichthyomys soderstromi de Winton, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1896, p. 507. 



Two specimens of this interesting fish-eating rodent were obtained 

 from Mr. Soderstrom, of Quito, who collected the type specimen on 



11911, p. 49.3; 1913, p. 1.53. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the Rio Machangara, Ecuador, February, 1895. One of the speci- 

 mens before me was obtained March 16, 1904, but neither has 

 .ttn exact locality. 



2. Epimys rattus (Linn). 



Mus rattus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 10, vol. 1, p. 61, 1758. (Sweden.) 



One skin and three skulls in the collection, obtained at Hacienda 

 Jalancay, Chunchi, Chimbo, and at Bucay, Guayas. 



3. Epimys norvegicus (Erxleben). 



Mus norvegicus Erxleben, Syst. Regni Anim., vol. 1, p. 381, 1777. (Norway.) 



One skull, from specimen caught in a house at Bucay, June 15, 1911. 



4. Mus musculus (Linn). 



Mus musculus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. 10, vol. 1, p. 62, 1758. (Sweden.) 



Five specimens obtained at Riobamba and Hacienda Garzon at 

 the southern foot of Mt. Pichincha, 11,000 feet. 



5. Oryzomys minutus (Tomes). 



Hesperumys minutus Tomes, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1860, p. 215. 

 (Ecuador.) 



The Hesperomys minutus of Tomes was based upon an immature 

 specimen obtained by Fraser, but without definite locality, although it 

 was supposed to be from Pallatanga. Oldfield Thomas, in describing 

 a new species of this genus from Peru (Aim. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 

 1894 (XIV), p. 357), identified with Tomes' type an adult specimen 

 in the British Museum which was also collected by Fraser at Palla- 

 tanga, Decemljer, 1858. Later (op. cit., 1898 (II), p. 267) he de- 

 scribed this specimen as new under the name Oryzomys dryas. His 

 explanation of this action is that specimens received from Mr. 

 Soderstrom (locality not given) were obviously identical with Tomes' 

 type and different from the Pallatanga skin. 



Mr. Rhoads' five specimens were all obtained in the vicinity of 



Hacienda Garzon (or Rosario) at the southern foot of Mt. Pichincha, 



some of them "in meadows and swamps below the house, 10,150 feet, " 



others higher up near the paramo, 12,000 feet. 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. Ear. 



d^. May 12, 1911 180 100 23 11.5 



cf , May 12, 1911 183 103 23 12 



d", May 13, 1911 178 98 23 13 



d", May 15, 1911 180 100 23 13 



9, May 12, 1911 190 103 22 12 



The Soderstrom specimens mentioned by Thomas doubtless 'came 

 from Pichincha, which is of easy access from Quito, and probably , 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



Tomes' type was also obtained there. While the latter is probably 

 not absolutely identifiable after this lapse of time, it seems best to 

 retain his name ininutus for this form. The animal is a little smaller 

 than Mus miisadus and almost exactly the same color below, while 

 above it is very much more rusty with a clearer line of demarcation 

 on the side. The ground color above, at the base of the tail where 

 it is purest and brightest, is "tawny ochraceous" of Ridgway's Color 

 Standards 1912, but is duller and browner on the back and head and 

 thickly mixed everywhere with black hairs. 



6. Eeithrodontomys soderstromi Thomas. 



Reithrodontomys Soderstromi Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1898 (I), 

 p. 451. (Quito.) 



Four specimens obtained from Mr. Soderstrom, who collected 

 them at or near Quito, and one obtained in Quito by Mr. Rhoads^ 

 April 25, ad. 9 , length 185 mm., tail 105, hind foot 20, ear 14.5. 



7. Phyllotis haggardi Thomas. 



Phijllotis Haggardi Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1898 (II), p. 270- 

 (Mt. Pichincha.) 



One immature female (12,697, Coll. A. N. S. Phila.) obtained at 

 Hacienda Garzon at the southern foot of Pichincha, at 12,000 feet, 

 nearly up to the paramo, IVIay 12, 1911. 



It agrees very well with Thomas' description, excepting that the 

 tail is only 50 mm. in length, whereas that of the type measured 

 86 mm. 



8. .Slpeomys vulcani (Thomas). 



^peomys vulcani Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1898 (I), p. 452. 

 (Mt. Pichincha, 12,000 feet.) 



A partially mummified skin (12,698, Coll. A. N. S. Phila.) ol)tained 

 from Mr. Soderstrom, collected on the west side of Mt. Pichincha. 

 Thomas seems to have made a mistake in citing the tail as "barely 

 as long as the head without the body," since a few lines below he 

 gives length of "head and body 111 mm. and tail 84 mm." The 

 measurements are probably correct as given, since our dried specimen 

 is 100 mm. long exclusive of the tail which measures about 72 mm. 



9. Thomasomys paramorum Thomas. 



Thomaaomys paramorum Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1898 (I), 

 p. 4.53. (Paramo, south of Chimborazo.) 



Ten specimens obtained on the paramo of Mt. Pichincha are 

 apparently referable to this species, obtained originally in a similar 

 region near Mt. Chimborazo. 



They are almost exactly like the much smaller Oryzomys minutus 

 in color, both above and below. 




r 



12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



Mr. Rhoads' measurements are as follows: 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. Ear. 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 4 201 108 23 14 



9 , juv., Hacienda Garzon, 



10,500 ft., May 13 174 95 23 14 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft.. May 15 215 118 24 12 



cf , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft.. May 15 216 118 24 IG 



cr^, Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 205 100 24 15.5 



9 , Paramo, 13,000 ft., :VIay 7. 205 125 25 IG 



9 , Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 204 112 24 14 



9, Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 195 102 24 14 



cf, Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 210 115 25 15 



10. Thomasomys rhoadsi sp. nov. 



Mr. Rhoads secured a series of seven specimens of another Thoma- 

 somys on the paramo of Mt. Pichincha apparently allied to T. 

 cinereus Thomas, from Cutervo, Peru. As no such animal seems 

 to have been described from Ecuador, I propose to name it Thoma- 

 somys rhoadsi, in honor of Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads whose expedition to 

 Ecuador has brought to light so many interesting species of verte- 

 brates. 



Type No. 12,709, Collection Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, d" . May 15, 1911, Hacienda Garzon, Mt. Pichincha, 

 10,500 feet. Coll. by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Skull similar to that of T. cinereus Thomas, but a little larger with 

 much wider interpterygoid fossa. Fur long and soft. Brown tints 

 of upper parts nearly bistre of Ridgway's "Color Standards," but so 

 mingled with black hairs that the general appearance is very much 

 darker, nearly black on the back. The fur of the under parts is gray 

 with buffy tips, not whitish. The upper side of the hind feet is 

 clothed with dusky hairs down to the base of the toes, while the 

 latter have scattered white hairs, notably at their extremities. The 

 fore feet an; but scantily haired, while the hairs on the tail in no way 

 conceal the scales. The ears are well haired. 



Length 250 mm., tail 110, hind foot 31.5, ear 16. Skull measure- 

 ments.2 Total length 35 mm., greatest breadth 18, molar series 7, 

 incisors to first molar 10, l)readth of constriction between orbits 6, 

 lower jaw (bone only) 20. 



2 As used by Thomas in desorij)! ion of T. cinereus. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



The series of skins measures as follows: 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. Ear. 



cf, Hacienda Garzon. 10,500 



ft., April 28 250 115 32 17 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., April 28 212 103 29 16 



9 , juv., Hacienda Garzon, 



10,500 ft., April 28 210 100 28.5 15.5 



cf, Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., April 28 253 115 30.5 15.5 



cf , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 12 30 15 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft.. May 15 250 110 31.5 16 



Mr. Osgood informs me that so far as he is aware all of the de- 

 scribed species approximating this in size have relatively shorter 

 tails, while the blackish back distinguishes it from all those species 

 available for comparison. 



"Several specimens of this mouse were secured above the Casa 

 'Garzon, along the trail from that Hacienda to the summit of Mount 

 Pichincha. The elevation was a few hundred feet above the valley, 

 where the marsupial Ccenolestes was secured, approximately 10,500 feet 

 and probably this is their lowest range, as much trapping was done 

 200 to 300 feet farther down without securing any. Their habitat 

 was on the rocky wooded slopes, where they had burrow^s similar 

 to those of our North American Microtine rodents, from one to 

 three inches below the surface of the soil and debris. 



"I was interested to notice, when skinning these mice, that all of 

 them, or possibly only the males, were supplied with a remarkable 

 prolongation of the anus, that organ being extended, or rather, 

 >extensible, beyond the thighs for half an inch or more, as indicated 

 in the memoranda on the labels of the specimens. This prolongation 

 was not an internal extension, but external, being hairy throughout." 

 (S. N. Rhoads.) 



11. Akodon mollis altorum Thomas. 



Akodon mollis altoruvi Thomas Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1913 (II), p. 404. 

 (Canar.) 



Nine specimens of this mouse were obtained on the paramo of 

 Pichincha or near Hacienda Garzon, a little lower down. 



Externally they are almost exactly like Thomasomys paramorum, 

 averaging perhaps a little darker or duller, but are easily recognized 

 by the shorter tail. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The measurements of the series are as follows: 



Hind 



Length. Tail. foot. Ear. 

 cf , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., April 28 185 73 24.5 14 



9, Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 105 26 14 



cf, Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 169 69 ' 23 14 



9 , Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7. 160 64 23 12 

 9 , juv.. Paramo, 13,500 ft., 



May 8 155 60 23 10 



cf. Paramo, 13,500 ft., May 8. 187 .80 23.5 11 

 9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 12 172 72 23 13.5 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 16 172 68 23 15 



9 , Cumboya, N. S. of Quito, 



May 29 152 60 23 13.5 



12. Sciurus irroratus (Gray). ? 



Macroxus irroratus Gray, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1867, XX, p. 431. 

 (Upper Ucayali River, Brazil.) 



One specimen (12,725, Coll. A. N. S. Phila.), male, procured in the 

 Pagma forest, July 11, 1911, is perhaps referable to this species, 

 though no suitable material is available for comparison. 



Length 330, tail 152, hind foot 50, ear 20. 



"Squirrels were reported by the natives to be in the forests about 

 Huigra from 4,000 feet and upwards, but we saw none until we 

 penetrated the Pagma forest above Hacienda Jalancay, 6,000 to 

 7,000 feet. They were exceedingly rare, however, even in this 

 forest. I saw one, after the specimen secured was taken, in an orange 

 grove near the Casa, 1,500 feet lower down. I can state nothing 

 about their habits, not having personally observed them in life. 

 No other species of squirrels were observed in our wanderings." 

 (S. N. Rhoads.) 



13. Sciurus hoffmanni soderstromi suljsp. nov. 



One specimen (No. 12,726, Collection Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia), from Mt. Pichincha, November, 1903, collected by 

 L. Soderstrom. 



While a member of the yS. hoffmanni group, this specimen is much 

 more rusty-red especially across the shoulders and on the fore legs 

 than any specimens I have seen from Costa Rica or any in a con- 

 siderable series with which Mr. Osgood has compared it in the Field 

 Museum. In other respects it does not seem to differ. 



I find no name applicable to this form and would propose that it 

 be called Sciurus hoffmanni soderstromi , in honor of its collector, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



who has done so much in developing our knowledge of the birds and 

 mammals of Ecuador. 



14. Sylvilagus andinus (Thomas). 



Lcpiis andinus Thomas, Ann. Nat. Hist., XX, 1897, p. 551. (Mt. Cayambi.) 



Three specimens obtained on the mountains above Chambo,. 



10,000-10,400 ft. 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. Ear.. 



9 , April 10 330 17 73 57 



d^ , April 10 340 17 72 59 



d^,juv., April 17 280 15 ' 60 55 



These specimens no doubt represent S. a. chimbanus Cabrera 

 (Trans. Mus. Cien. Nat. Madrid, Zool. Series, No. 9, 1913), but as. 

 I am unable to appreciate the difference between the two forms and 

 have no typical material of either for comparison, I prefer to refer 

 the specimens to Thomas's *S. andinus. 



"These cottontails were found, as we rose from the Chimbo River 

 valley up the slopes, 500 to 1,000 feet above the town of Chambo. 

 They frequented the brush-grown pastures in similar situations to those 

 frequented by our cottontails of the United States, only they kept more 

 closely to the bushes and were not found in the open pastures. They 

 seemed to range from that point no lower, but to reach up the slopes 

 into the paramo, at an elevation of 12,000 to 13,000 feet, but we 

 secured none in the paramo region, abundant as they evidently 

 were by their tracks and droppings in the thick tussock grass. We 

 also saw several on the paramo of Mount Pichincha, above Hacienda. 

 Garzon, but were fated to secure no specimens. None were seen in 

 this locality below the paramo, viz., 11,000 feet, approximately. 

 It is quite possible that the paramo rabbit is distinct from the 

 animal of the templada, at least subspecifically, or that there are 

 two species, not distinguisliable at a distance by a field observer."' 

 (S. N. Rhoads.) 



15. Mazama americana (Er&l). 



Moschus americanus Erxleben, Syst. Regni. Anine, vol. I, p. 1777. 



One female specimen (12,730, Coll. A. N. S. Phila.) obtained at 

 the junction of the Chanchan and Chaguancay Rivers on the lower 

 western slope of the Andes, February 27, 1911. 



Length 1,050 mm., height at shoulder 600, height at rump 715,. 

 tail 160, ear 115. 



Mr. W. H. Osgood has revived Erxleben's name for M. nemo- 

 rivagus (Field Museum, Nat. Hist. Puhl., No. 155, vol. X, p. 43, 1912) 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



but Oldfield Thomas (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist, XI, 1913, p. 585) 

 •considers that it applies rather to M. rufus of authors, and I so use it. 



16. Mustela aureoventris Gray. 



Mustela aureoventris Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, p. 55. (Ecuador.) 



One specimen (12,731, Coll. A. N. S. Phila.), male, procured in 

 the Pagma forest, July 11. 



Measurements: Length 420 mm., tail 165, hind foot 48, ear 12. 



While there is an earlier Mustela auriventer Hodgs, 1841, which in 

 my opinion would invalidate Gray's name, yet it does not seem 

 ■desirable to propose a substitute until the relationship of the Ecuador 

 species to those described from Colombia and Peru is definitely 

 settled. At present I am unable to secure any of the material 

 necessary for comparison. 



'' The only weasel seen on the expedition was shot by Mr. Lemmon, 

 my assistant, in the Pagma forest from a tree at a low elevation, and, 

 until picked up, was thought to be a squirrel." (S. N. Rhoads.) 



17. Blarina osgoodi sp. nov. 



Eight specimens of a Blarina were obtained at Hacienda Garzon 

 on Mt. Pichincha at an altitude of 10,500 ft. and on the paramo 

 1,500 ft. higher. Four of these were prepared as skins and the 

 others preserved in spirits. 



So far as I am aware, no Blarina has previously been found south 

 of Colombia {B. thomasi Merriam and B. squamipes Allen) and Merida, 

 Venezuela {M. meridensis Thomas) ; and as the Ecuador specimens 

 differ from all of these, I propose to name them Blarina osgoodi for 

 Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the Field Museum of Natural History, whose 

 expeditions to South America have done so much to enrich our 

 knowledge of its mammals and birds. 



Type from Hacienda Garzon, Mt. Pichincha, 10,500 ft. altitude, 

 May 12, 1911, female, collected by Samuel N. Rhoads. No. 12,732, 

 Collection A. N. S. Phila. 



Similar in size and coloration to B. thomasi Merriam from Bogota, 

 but not quite so broA^m. 



Anterior unicuspid teeth less distinctly angulate on the inner side 

 than in B. thomasi and the third and fourth unicuspids quite different. 

 The third unicuspid in B. thomasi is apparently as long as broad, 

 while in B. osgoodi it is very much broader than long, and both it and 

 the fourth unicuspid are smaller in every way. 



Total length 105 mm., tail 30 mm., hind foot 14 mm. 



Skull measurements: total length 22 mm., greatest breadth 10 mm. 




191-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Measurements of the other skins: 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 ft., May 5 113 30 14 



9 , Paramo, 13,000 ft., May 7 105 26 14 



cT, Paramo, 13,000 ft.. May 7 106 26 14 



I am not prepared to say how good a character the squamation 

 of the feet may prove to be, but B. osgoodi exhibits scaly plates on 

 the hind feet similar to, but smaller than, those of B. squamipes. 

 They are not apparent on the fore feet nor on any of the feet of 

 B. thomasi which has the feet much more thickly haired than either 

 B. osgoodi or B. squamipes. 



In general size, color, and length of tail B. meridensis and B. 

 squamipes appear to be very similar, and it would be interesting to 

 know whether the former exhibits the marked squamation. 



''These shrews were first taken at the Hacienda Garzon on the 

 southern slope of Mount Pichincha, about on the level with the Casa. 

 They were trapped in runways along the banks of a deeply cut arti- 

 ficial ditch, the kind used in that country in lieu of a fence against 

 cattle. The location was wooded clearing and brush land, at that 

 point deeply shaded upland. The runways in location and character 

 were precisely like those made and used by Blarinas in the United 

 States." (S. N. Rhoads.) 



18. Didelphis marsupialis Linn. 



Didelphis marsupialis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., ed. X., 1758, p. 54. 



One specimen obtained at Quito collected on the east side of 

 Cayambe. Also a ramus of a lower jaw found at Bucay, June 20. 



Mr. Osgood has compared the Cayambe specimen with true 



marsupialis of Guiana and Venezuela and finds but little difference 



except that it is somewhat larger. It may possibly be referable to 



D. m. colomhica Allen, type locality Santa Marta. 



19. Caenolestes fuliginosus (Tomes). 



Hyracodon fuliginosus Tomes, Proc. Zool. 8oc. London, 1863, p. 51. 

 (Ecuador.) 



Two female specimens of this little known marsupial were obtained 

 by Mr. Rhoads at Hacienda Garzon, near the paramo of Mt. Pichincha, 

 May 12, 1911, about three months after Mr. Osgood had rediscovered 

 the very closely allied C. obscurus on the Paramo de Tama on the 

 borderland of Colombia and Venezuela. 



So far as I am aware, no specimen of this interesting animal has 



been obtained in Ecuador since the type was taken by Fraser about 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



1859 (see Tomes, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 213). Fraser's specimen was sup- 

 posed to have come from Pallatanga, but this was not certain as the 

 collection had been mixed up, and it is quite as likely, in view of 

 Mr. Rhoads' discovery, that he got it on Mt. Pichincha. 



As given by Tomes in describing the animal in 1863, the measure- 

 ments of the t}npe (reduced to millimeters) are : head and body 97 mm., 

 tail 97, head 31. 



In his description of C. obscurus Thomas. gives the measurements 

 as head and body 151, tail 144, hind foot 23, ear 12x11.5, and bases 

 the species as distinct from C. fuliginosus on the fact that it is " double 

 the size." 



Mr. Rhoads' measurements of his two specimens are: 



Hind 

 Length. Tail. foot. Ear. 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 12 198 103 22 11 



9 , Hacienda Garzon, 10,500 



ft., May 12 217 110 22.5 11.5 



Mr. Osgood's series of five females of C. obscurus averaged as follows : 



Total length 223 mm., head and body 107.6, tail vertebrae 115.4, 

 hind foot 22.5. 



It will be readily seen, therefore, that his specimens and those of 

 Mr. Rhoads are practically identical in measurements, while a com- 

 parison of the skins made by Mr. Osgood shows "no appreciable 

 difference." Unless it is maintained that there are two species in 

 Ecuador, it looks very much as if C. obscurus Thomas might become a 

 synonym of C. fuliginosus Tomes. Such a view, involving the 

 assumption that Tomes' measurements were quite erroneous or that 

 his specimen was a young one, seems to me much more rational 

 than to suppose that two species of quite different size occur in Ecuador. 



"The two specimens were secured in swampy ground, the edge of a 

 large pasture on the Hacienda Garzon, within a few feet of a swiftly 

 flowing stream of considerable size. They were caught in small 

 cyclone mouse traps set in underground runways among the thick 

 grass, these runways being al)out on the level with the waterline 

 of the swamp. They were caught on the same day, soon after 

 placing the traps in that locality, but although I continued to 

 trap there for a week longer, having as many as 40 or 50 traps in 

 that place, I secured no more specimens there, nor in any other 

 similar localities where trapping was done. The stream alluded to 

 runs over a bed strewn with volcanic rocks and boulders and is in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



an open cultivated valley-head, draining the south slopes of Mount 

 Pichincha, about 8 miles south of Quito and at an elevation of 

 about 10,500 feet, the valley at this point being about half a mile 

 wide and extending to even greater widths as far as one can see, in a 

 southerly direction." (S. N. Rhoads.) 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE GENUS CYCLOPS IN THE VICINITY OF 

 HAVERFORD, PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY REYNOLD A. SPAETH. 



The original purpose of this paper was, after the notes and obser- 

 vations of two years had been collected, to prove that by a careful 

 and regular study of the water from a single locality, many of the 

 forms of the Cydo'pidce which are now considered rare would be 

 found to be quite abundant, at least at certain seasons of the year. 

 Owing to unforeseen circumstances, this purpose had to be abandoned 

 in part, and although all the forms recorded in this paper have been 

 taken from a single small pond in the vicinity of Haverford College, 

 the records of monthly abundance or rarity of the different species 

 are not complete. Certain species, notably C. varicans, C. fimhriatus 

 var. poppei, and C. phaleratus, appear far more abundantly in the 

 spring from the middle of March to the end of May. C. prasinus 

 I have found in the greatest numbers in September and early October 

 collections. C. alhidus, C. viridis var. insectus, and C. serrulatus do 

 not vary so noticeably in the collections, while C. fuscus is the most 

 unvarying species of the genus, a few being found in the water taken 

 the year round. 



In his paper of '97, E. B. Forbes has made a most excellent revis- 

 ional study of the North American Cydopidce. His work has sim- 

 plified investigation for all future workers in this field, and his very 

 careful and excellent observations can hardly be overestimated. 

 I have followed his system of subgenera to avoid confusion. 



Cragin's paper of '83 has scarcely received due credit from the 

 investigators who have followed him. His drawings show con- 

 siderable accuracy of detail and very few of the important structural 

 features have escaped his notice. 



Marsh's work has been rather more of a plankton study than one 

 of in.dividual structure. Brewer's paper of '98 lays considerable 

 emphasis on feet-armature, which is now generally considered a 

 variable feature and not a reliable character for specific distinction. 



Miss Byrnes' recent paper of '09 is somewhat confusing. Rather 

 unfortunately she has reverted to Herrick's varietal names of C. 

 ^ignatus, has credited Forbes with both C. bicuspidatus Claus and 

 C- serrulatus Fischer in her list of species studied, and has confused 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



C. bicolor Sars with C. varicans Sars. Many of hor drawings, however, 

 are excellent, and she has furthermore presented all figures on the 

 same scale, which is of value in a comparative study of the species. 

 Her chief source of information has apparently been Herrick, whose 

 work, while remarkable, considering the number of species described, 

 is, owing to its large field, often misleading and at times quite incor- 

 rect. She has neglected both Schmeil and Forbes — the most com- 

 plete modern works on the subject. Her most careful study has 

 been on the armatures of the four pairs of swimming feet, which, 

 while interesting in showing the variations that occur, are not 

 sufficiently constant characters to warrant a deduction of general 

 conclusions. 



E. B. Forbes was the first American investigator to lay much 

 stress on the importance of the shape of the receptacidum seminis. 

 He w^as convinced by Schmeil's work of '92 that it was the most 

 important character for specific distinction. Its shape, while often, 

 somewhat obscure, varies very little, and the same general outline 

 is preserved in all members of the same species. This outline is 

 effected largely by the number of spermatozoa contained in the 

 receptaculum. Other important distinguishing characters are the 

 number of female antennal segments, the length of the first female 

 antennae, hyaline plates and sensory hairs and clubs, armature of 

 the stylets (variable in some species), and the shape and armature 

 of the fifth foot. 



The number of female antennal segments is usually quite constant. 

 Of the specimens from this locality, C. phaleratus and C. varicans 

 were the only exceptions to the rule. The former may have either 

 ten or eleven joints and the latter eleven or twelve. In the plate of 

 C. varicans I have shown only the eleven-jointed form of the first 

 antennae, as this seems to be a winter transitional stage, though such 

 individuals were all sexually mature. The twelve-jointed form did 

 not appear until the April collections. The length of the female 

 first antennae varies remarkably in C. serrulatus, but in all species 

 having antennae of less than twelve segments, it is quite constant. 

 Hyaline plates vary very slightly as to their edges. Minute serra- 

 tions occasionally appear or are absent, notably in C. prasinus. 

 Sense-clubs and hairs are constant features. 



The armature of the stylets and their proportions are constant in 

 some species, as C. modestus, C. varicans, and C. phaleratus. In 

 others, as C bicuspidatus and especially in C. serrulatus, the variation 

 is very great. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Forbes considers the armature of the swmiming feet "of con- 

 siderable value in certain cases, and constant as a rule;" that 'Hhe 

 general character with regard to strength, etc., may usually be relied 

 upon; but I have often seen in a single specimen all the gradations 

 between spines and setse, and it would be impossible from this 

 character to say which of the two names should be applied." The 

 more I have worked out the armature of the swimming feet, the more 

 I am convinced that a constant standard cannot be obtained for 

 such an armature for all members of the same species. The following 

 table is an illustration of the confusing results obtained in attemjjting 

 to establish a standard "swimming-feet armature for C. phaleratus. 



Case Number 1, 



First pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



spine, four setse. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, four setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setse. 



Case Number 2. 



First pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setse; "inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setse. 



Case Number 3. 



First pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



spine, four setse. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Fourth pair — (right) three spines, five setse; inner ramus, one seta, 



two spines, two setse. 

 Fourth pair — (left) four spines, four setse; inner ramus, one seta, 



two spines, two setse. 



The above cases show a variation in both outer and inner ramus 

 of the first pair, in the outer ramus of the second pair, and the outer 




1914,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



ramus of the fourth pair. The case of a spine becoming a seta as 

 m the outer ramus of the fourth foot of Number 3 right and Number 

 3 left is not as unusual as the appearance of an extra spine, as on the 

 outer ramus of the first pair of Number 3 compared with the cor- 

 responding ramus of 1 and 2. In some species the armature is 

 considerably more constant. In C. modestus, for example, it rarely 

 varies at all, specimens from widely separated localities showing an 

 identical arrangement of both spines and setse. After the examina- 

 tion of a great many specimens of a number of species, I have con- 

 cluded that unless there are very distinct differences in some of the 

 other important distinguishing characters, a slight variation in 

 swimming-feet armature is not sufficient proof for establishing a new 

 species or even a variety. 



The fifth foot, both in armature and shape, is constant as a rule. 

 There are slight variations occasionally in the shape of the segments 

 and comparative lengths of spines and setae. In a single case I have 

 found a mature female of C. viridis var. insectus with an extra com- 

 pletely developed seta on the distal segments of both fifth feet. 

 This very unusual form is now in the collection of C D. Marsh. 



The receptaculum seminis has already been mentioned. In pre- 

 .serving specimens it is advisable to use a 1 per cent, solution of 

 formalin to avoid contraction and distortion of this organ. 



All of the plates have been drawn from life. The movements of 

 the living animals may be readily overcome by the use of a 1-1000 

 parts solution of chlorotone. This I have found to be very con- 

 venient and all danger of flattening and distorting the outline of 

 specimens may be thus avoided. By this method the same individual 

 may be repeatedly used, as the animal recovers a few moments after 

 having been replaced in fresh water. Care must be taken that the 

 solution of chlorotone does not become concentrated by evaporation, 

 in which case the animals are killed by its too violent effects. 



The work in this paper covers a period of three years. All of the 

 species described herein have been taken from a single pond of less 

 than one acre area. The Copepoda having been largely neglected 

 in this part of the country, it is interesting to note the presence of 

 some of the more unusual forms, as C. varicans, C. fimbriatus var. 

 poppei, and several others. I am greatly indebted to Dr. C. D. 

 Marsh for his identification of specimens and his general interest and 

 assistance throughout the period of study. My thanks are also due 

 ]Mr. E. B. Forbes and Dr. H. S. Pratt. The latter, through his 

 unfailing personal interest and encouragement and by placing the 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



very best of the laboratory equipment at my disposal, is largely 

 responsible for the existence of this paper. I gladly take this oppor- 

 tunity to acknowledge also the assistance of iVIr. J. Ashbrook in 

 collecting material. 



Genus CYCLOPS O. F. MuUer. 



Subgenus CYCLOPS Claus s. str. 



Cyclops bicuspidatus Claus. PI. II, figs. 1-5. 



Cyclops bicuspidatus Claus, '57, p. 209. 



Cyclops pulchellus Sars, '63, pp. 246, 247, pi. XI, figs. 6 and 7. 



Cyclops nai'us Herrick, '82a, p. 229, pi. V, figs. 6-13, 15-17. 



Cyclops thomasi Forbes, '82a, p. 649. 



Cyclops bicuspidatus Schmeil, '92, pp. 75-87, pi. II, figs. 1-3. 



Cyclops ininnilus Forbes, '93, p. 247. 



Cyclops serratus Forbes, '93, pp. 247, 248. 



Cyclops forbesi Herrick and Turner, '95, p. 104. 



Cyclops navus Brewer, '98, p. 133. 



Cyclops pulchellus Brewer, '98, pp. 133, 134. 



Cyclops bicuspidatus Lilljeborg, '01, pp. 11-14, pi. I, figs. 12-17, pi. II, fig. 1 



Cyclops pulchellus Byrnes, pp. 24, 25, pi. X. 



Cyclops bicuspidatus Byrnes, pp. 25, 26, pi. X. 



Synonymy and Distribution. — In his discussion of the synonymy 

 of this very variable and widely distributed species, Forbes has 

 cleared up the question of C. thomasi Forbes, C. navus Herrick, 

 C. minnilus Forbes, and C. serratus Forbes = C. forbesi Herrick. He 

 finds, after a careful comparative study, that they should all be 

 considered as slight variations of the type C. bicuspidatus, but the 

 differences are not sufficient to warrant the varietal names. Schmeil 

 has also discussed the question at great length. He does not consider 

 C. thomasi Forbes nor C. navus Herrick of specific value, since the 

 latter is only a variety of C. thomasi Forbes. Brewer has described, 

 as C. nanus Herrick and C. pulchellus Koch, two species of cyclops 

 from the vicinity of Lincoln, Nebraska. His descriptions of the 

 rudimentary and .swimming feet show that he wa* dealing with 

 slightly different specimens of C. bicuspidatus Claus. As C. pul- 

 chellus Herrick and C. bicuspidatus Forbes, Miss Byrnes has described 

 examples of C. bicuspidatus Claus from Long Island. Her descrip- 

 tions of the swimming feet and her drawings of the receptaculum 

 seminis show very conclusively that the two forms both belong under 

 this specific name. The variation of the single seta on the fifth 

 foot is frequently encountered in the species. The form of the fifth 

 foot in what she describes as C. bicuspidatus Forbes is very interesting, 

 for Forbes has found it but once and on that occasion from Woods 

 Hole, Mass. It corresponds exactly with the European forms and 

 with the representatives of this species from this locality. 



C. bicuspidatus Claus is very widely distributed over the L^nited 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



States. Forbes states that "it has been found in Massachusetts 

 and Wyoming and in all the intervening territory," and further that 

 "it is the commonest Cyclops in the Great Lakes." Miss Byrnes 

 has recently found it to be a common form in the Long Island waters. 

 I have noted that it occurs very abundantly in one of the large 

 streams in this vicinity, but in the small pond from which I have 

 taken every other species described in this paper I have found but a 

 single specimen.^ 



Specific Description. — In the specimens of C. hicuspidatus Claus 

 from this vicinity, the lateral angles of the cephalothorax are very 

 prominent, as in the "specimens from the far west" (Forbes). The 

 first thoracic segment is a little more than half the length of the 

 entire cephalothorax (PI. II, fig. 1). The posterior borders of all 

 the thoracic segments are smooth. 



The first abdominal segment (PI. II, figs. 1 and 5) is unusually 

 expanded, laterally, on the anterior side of the suture. It is about 

 as long as the remaining three abdominal segments. The posterior 

 margins of the first three abdominal segments are finely serrated 

 (PI. II, fig. 5). The fourth segment has the usual row of spinules 

 on its posterior margin (PI. II, figs. 1 and 2). 



The stylets (PI. II, fig. 2) are more than twice as long as the last 

 two abdominal segments. Their length is about six times their 

 width and they are frequently slightly out-curved. The above 

 proportions hold good only in the cases of the specimens examined. 

 They vary considerably in different localities. The lateral spine is 

 inserted at the beginning of the posterior third of the ramus, and at 

 a distance of about one-quarter of the length of the stylet from its 

 insertion point there is always present a minute lateral comb of 

 spinules (PI. II, fig. 2). Of the apical setae, the outermost is heavy, 

 finely plumose, and about as long as the delicate inner seta. The 

 longer of the two prominently developed setae is about equal in 

 length to the abdomen and twice that of the shorter seta. The}' 

 are both delicately plumose. 



The first antennae of the female (PI. II, fig. 1) are seventeen- 

 jointed and terminate at the end of the first thoracic segment. At 

 the distal end of the twelfth segment there is borne an unusually 

 long, spear-shaped sense-club (PL II, fig. 3). The setae are all quite 

 short and plumose for the most part. The terminal segments bear 



^In late March and April, 1910, collections in the vicinity of Cambridge. 

 Mass., this was by far the most abundant form. 




26 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



no hyaline plates and the last three gradually increase in length to 

 the end. 



The armature of the swimming feet is as follows : 



First pair — outer ramus, two spines, four setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, three spines, four setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Third pair — like second. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, four setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setse. 



The fifth foot (PI. II, fig. 4) is two-segmented, the basal segment 

 being about as long as broad and bearing a plumose seta on its outer 

 distal angle. The distal segment is cylindrical, about twice as long 

 as Avide, and bears a long plumose seta and a short, thick spine. 

 For this spine is often substituted a longer seta-like form, though 

 that is not the regular armature in the local specimens. 



The receptacuhim seminis (PI. II, fig. 5) consists of two divisions. 

 The anterior portion extends as a low arch across the segment. The 

 posterior division is bag-shaped and reaches a point half-way to the 

 posterior margin of the first abdominal segment. Its anterior border 

 branches out abruptly on either side along the suture. The porus 

 is situated on the median line, between the lateral angles on the 

 suture. 



The egg-sacs are unusually large and are carried at a considerable 

 angle from the body. Forbes gives the size of this species as 1-1.4 

 mm. Schmeil gives 1.3-2 mm. for the European forms. The 

 specimens from this locality average about 1.5 mm. 



The color of C. bicuspidatus is generally a very pale shade of 

 yellow. Often individuals appear to be quite colorless. The dorsal 

 surface of the thorax, especially the anterior portion, usually has a 

 peculiarly shiny appearance. 



The last characters for the distinction of this species are its slim 

 form, the shape of the fifth feet and the receptacuhim seminis, and 

 especially the. small lateral combs of spinules on the outer sides of 

 the stylets. 



Subgenus MARCOCYCLOPS Claus. 

 Cyclops fuSCUS Jurinc. PI. I. 



Mottoculus quadricnrnis fii.scus Jurine, '20, pp. 47, 48, Taf. II, fig. 2. 

 Cyclops signnlu.^ Koch, '3S, Ileft, 21, Nr. 8. 



Cyclops conmalus Clans, '()3, i)p. 97-99, Taf. II, fig. 16 and Taf. X, fig. 1. 

 Cyclops signalus var. coronalus Herrick and Turner, '95, p. 106, pi. XV, 

 figs. 1-4. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Cyclops fuscus Schmeil, '92, pp. 123-127, 136-140, pi. I, figs. 1-76; pi. IV, 



fig. 16. 

 Cyclops fuscus Jurine, Marsh, '95, pp. 16, 17, pi. VI, figs. 5, 7, and 11. 

 Cyclops signatus var. coroiiatus Herrick, Brewer, '98, pp. 129, 130. 

 Cyclops fuscus Jurine, Lilljeborg, '01, pi. Ill, figs. 12-15. 

 Cyclops signatus var. corouatus Herrick, Byrnes, '06, pp. 193-200, pi. VII, 



figs. 1-6, pi. VIII, figs. 1-3. 

 Cyclops signatus var. corouatus Byrnes, '09, pp. 9, 10. 



Synonymy and Dislribution. — In his discussion of the differences 

 between this species and the closely related Cyclops albidus Jurine, 

 Dr. Schmeil has proven not only that we are dealing with two 

 distinct species, but also that Jurine was the first investigator to 

 distinguish these two. It is only right, then, that Jurine's names 

 should stand and that Koch's Cyclops signatus give way to (1) C. 

 Juscus and (2) C. albidus Jurine. In spite of Schmeil's careful proof, 

 several of our American investigators have clung to Herrick's varieties 

 ienuicornis and coronatus of C. signatus Koch. C. D. Marsh accepted 

 Schmeil's proof in his paper of '95. Even after the publication of 

 Porbes' paper of '97, in which he abandoned Herrick's terms for 

 "those of Jurine, Brewer in '98 and Miss Byrnes in '06 and again in 

 '09, have reverted to Herrick's varietal names. 



In speaking of the "two varieties," coronatus and tenuicornis, 

 IBrewer states that "the real differences between them are confined 

 to the seventeenth- joint of the antenna and the caudal setse." He 

 then continues: "The difference between their first cephalothoracic 

 segments and their furcse is hardly distinguishable." On p. 136 of 

 Schmeil's monograph there is a table of "the most important dis- 

 tinguishing characters" of the two species in question. Of the 

 eleven "important characters" mentioned, Brewer has noted four, 

 and no mention is made of such important features as the receptacu- 

 lum seminis and the sense-club (present or absent) on the twelfth 

 antennal segment. 



It is quite evident that Miss Byrnes has overlooked the more 

 important distinguishing differences between the two species. In 

 her recent paper. The Fresh Water Cyclops of Long Island ('09), 

 in spite of the carefully tabulated proofs of Schmeil in Germany 

 and the acceptance of his views by both Marsh ('95) and Forbes 

 ('97), Miss Byrnes has clung to the ob.solete name of C. signatus 

 Koch and attempts to revive Herrick's varietal name coronatus and 

 Richard's(?) annulicornis. In a foot-note- (on p. 9) she states: 

 "I have used the more recent name C. signatus var. coronatus instead 

 of the older name C. fuscus Jurine, because it expresses more clearly 

 the evidently close relationship that exists between C. signatus var. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



coronatus and the allied form C. signatus var. annulicornis, called 

 C. albidus by Jurine. " 



It is quite evident that Miss Byrnes has not had Dr. Schmeil's 

 exhaustive work on the Cyclopidce of Germany at hand. He has 

 shown conclusively (129, 130 and 137-140) that by right of priority 

 Jurine's names should stand. No matter how "close" the "relation- 

 ship" between the two forms in question, Miss Byrnes is hardly 

 justified in using "the more recent" name. In her description of 

 Cyclops signatus var. coronatus (p. 9) she states that this form has 

 "serrations in the hyaline plate on the two distal segments of the 

 antennae" and, furthermore, that "the notches in the hyaline plate 

 of the antennae form gradually and may or may not be present. 

 In fig. 4 they are seen on the last segment only. " The first statement 

 I am unable to verify, nor do any of the investigators mention a 

 serration of the "two distal segments of the antennse." They are 

 always present in the hyaline plate of the distal segment in adult 

 forms. In the immature forms the plate on the distal segment of 

 the antennse is often exactly as in C. albidus Jurine. The serrations 

 do not "form gradually." I have several times observed a young 

 specimen of C. fuscus just before the last ecdysis. In such cases 

 there was a finely serrated hyaline plate on the last segment, but the 

 coarsely serrated plate of the adult form could b& distinctly observed 

 below the transparent chitin folded flat down along the segment. 

 In every case the serrations of the coming plate were complete. 

 In her conclusion Miss Byrnes states that "there are wide ranges 

 of variability in the reduced seta on the inner ramus of the fourth 

 foot of annulicornis and in the hyaline plate of the antennae of both 

 varieties — in short, in the most important difi^erential characters 

 of the two varieties." It is not at all surprising that Miss Byrnes 

 considers the "two varieties" so closely related when we find that 

 half of (to her) the "most important differential characters" are 

 concerned with a single seta on the inner ramus of the fourth foot. 

 In her description of this species, as well as all the others descrilied 

 by her, Miss Byrnes obviously neither considers the receptaciduin 

 seminis a most important feature, nor does she mention the presence 

 of sense-club or hair in a single species. 



Miss Byrnes has added very little to the evidence of the close rela- 

 tion that may exist between these two species. She gives but one- 

 quarter of the observations in Herrick's "diagnosis," which is 

 incomplete even in its full form, and then draws her conclusion 

 mainly from her own notes on the difference in the single seta of th(> 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



inner ramus of the fourth foot, already mentioned. I quote from 

 her paper once more. ''He (Herrick) states that the two varieties 

 have similar armature of the swimming feet, but that tenuicornis 

 iliffers from coronatus in the absence of serrations on the antennal 

 lamellae and in the divarication of the ovisacs." Here follows the 

 original description of Herrick's "Cyclops signatus var. tenuicornis. 

 First segment of thorax shorter, its length to that of the entire thorax 

 as 1 : 1.9. Last segment of antennse with unserrated lamella. 

 Caudal stylets longer, length to width as 2.1 : 1, inner aspect not 

 ciliated. Outer apical seta half as long as inner. Second segment 

 of antennules longer. Color variable, but always banded or 

 splotched. It is also generally true that the ovisacs in the present 

 variety are more strongly divaricate than in the variety coronatus." 

 ]\Iiss Byrnes now concludes that since "the antennal lamella of 

 anjiidicornis sometimes bears serrations and coronatus sometimes 

 bears its egg masses in a divaricate position, as I have found in 

 attempting to distinguish the two forms by this character, .... 

 consequently Herrick's diagnosis is untenable." This gives Herrick 

 absolutely no credit for six of his eight points of difference noted. 

 Herrick's diagnosis should not be considered untenable, but merelj- 

 incomplete. 



This species, while not as common as Cyclops albidus, appears to 

 be quite generally distributed over the United States. Forbes 

 reports it from the "ponds and lakes of Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, 

 and Massachusetts," where it "occurs sparingly." Brewer found 

 it with C. albidus Jurine (= C. signatus var. tenuicornis Herrick) in 

 the vicinity of Lincoln, Nebraska, but "always in small numbers." 

 Miss Byrnes has studied the species at Cold Spring Harbor, Long 

 Island. Kofoid does not mention it in his studies of the "Plankton 

 of the Illinois River." I have found it in this locality; rather more 

 abundantly in September, October, and April than during the winter 

 months. I have never found it in very great numbers. During 

 the summer and fall of 1909, it occurred sparingly in collections 

 from Lake Winnepesaukee, N. H., and in a small pond adjoining 

 "Fresh Pond" at Cambridge, Mass. 



Specific Description. — The cephalothorax (PI. I, fig. 1) in this spe- 

 cies is a little more than twice as long as the abdomen. They are to 

 each other as 21 : 10. The first segment is to the entire cephalothorax 

 as 7 : 11. The length of the thorax to its width is as 11: 6. In the 

 living animal none of the lateral angles of the thoracic segments are 

 prominent. The posterior borders of the thoracic segments are all 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



unserrated. The fifth segment has a row of minute chitinous teeth 

 extending transversely across the ventral side between the fifth feet. 

 This same segment has on its lateral sides a row of fine spinules as 

 well as a minute fringe of hairs, as in C. prasinus. 



The abdomen tapers but little towards its posterior end. The 

 first segment is about as long as the three following ones. The pos- 

 terior edges of the first three abdominal segments are smooth. 

 Occasionally there are very slight and uneven serrations present 

 (PL I, fig. 3). The ventral posterior border of the fourth segment 

 has a prominent fringe of spines which do not extend to the edge of 

 the anal opening, as is the case in C. alhidus. I find no mention of 

 this characteristic in any descriptions of C. fuscus that I have at hand. 



The stylets (PI. I, fig. 3) are short; the branches often slightly 

 out-curved. The length is three times the width. Schmeil states 

 that the inner border is ''densely" set with hairs. In the specimens 

 from this locality these hairs are often very irregular, rarely "dense," 

 but always present. The apical setae are well developed and densely 

 plumose. The outer is to the inner as 4 : 7. The longest is to the 

 next in length as 7 : 5. 



The first antennae of the female (PI. I, figs. 1 and 9) reach to the 

 anterior border of the first abdominal segment. They are seventeen- 

 jointed and bear a minute sensory hair upon the twelfth segment 

 in place of the sense-club found in C. alhidus (PI. I, fig. 9). On 

 their anterior edges at the point of juncture with the following seg- 

 ments, the eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth 

 segments are ornamented with a row of prominent, obliquely set 

 spinules. These rows of spinules form almost a quarter circle on 

 the eighth, ninth, and tenth segments. On the twelfth and thirteenth 

 segments they are not so closely set and are fewer in number. It is 

 interesting to note that where Schmeil found six spinules on these 

 segments in European forms, I have found but four or five, and on 

 the fourteenth segment where he records four, I have noted five in 

 every case. I have never seen more than seven of these spinules 

 on the eighth, ninth and tenth segments, and the eighth and tenth 

 usually have but five. Besides these regular rows of spinules, there 

 are smaller transverse and longitudinal rows and irregular groups Of 

 very minute spinules (PI. I, fig. 9) on the ventral side of the first 

 fourteen antennal segments. The longitudinal rows mark the 

 boundary between the smooth portion of the segment and that on 

 which the spinules occur. 



The three terminal segments bear transparent hyaline plates. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



These plates are smooth on the fifteenth and sixteenth segments, 

 but on the seventeenth (PI. I, fig. 7) the plate is coarsely serrate 

 from the base of the segment to the insertion point of the middle 

 seta; from thence to the end minutely serrated as in C. albidus. 

 This plate projects somewhat beyond the end of the seventeenth 

 segment. 



The second antennae (PI. I, fig. 5) are unusually long. The third 

 segment is the longest of the four — a distinguishing difference between 

 this and the following form. The swimming feet are armed as follows : 



First pair — outer ramus, four spines, four setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Second pair — -outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Third pair — like second. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, 



three spines, two setae. 



Marsh has noted that "the larger of the two terminal spines of the 

 endopodite of the fourth foot, instead of being serrated on its edges 

 as is customary in all the spines of the swimming feet, is beset on its 

 inner margin with long, rather irregular teeth. " I find this character 

 present in the local specimens, though the "irregular teeth" do not 

 extend to the tip of the spine on its inner margin. There are but 

 five or six of these long serrations at the middle of the inner margin, 

 thence to the tip of the spine the serrations are normal. Schmeil 

 notes that the lamella which connects the basal segments of the 

 fourth pair of swimming feet is ornamented by a fringe of long hairs. 

 This is found also in C. albidus, and is therefore hardly a distinctive 

 character of C. fuscus. In all the specimens that I have examined, 

 these "hairs" are very coarse, resembling rather long serrations. 

 There is a very noticeable characteristic in the lamella between the 

 basal joints of the thij'd pair of swimming feet. There are two very 

 minute rows of blunt spinules extending transversely across the 

 lamella. The upper row is broken in the middle. In the following 

 species this character is very different. 



The fifth foot is practically identical with that of the following 

 species. Miss Byrnes states that the basal segment of the rudiment- 

 ary fifth foot in ^'coronatus" (= C fuscus) is conspicuously short. 

 Schmeil finds no such difference. Among all the representatives 

 of C. fuscus that I have compared with C. albidus, I have found 

 only very slight differences in the lengths of the basal segments of 

 the fifth feet. The apparent difference in length may often be 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



accounted for by the strongly arched cephalothorax of C. albidus, 

 which enables the animal to place the fifth feet close upon the first 

 abdominal segment. In C. fuscus the shorter basal segment is 

 frequently only a foreshortening because of the angle at which the 

 feet are held. The arrangement of the spinules, the spines and the 

 setae are exactly as in C. alhidus (PL I, fig. 13). 



The receptaculum seminis (PI. I, fig. 11) consists of two main 

 divisions. The anterior portion is wide, shaped very much like the 

 corresponding portion of the receptaculum in C. alhidus, but with a 

 very distinct indentation on its anterior border. The posterior 

 part appears as a pair of slightly elongated reniform divisions sepa- 

 rated by a median line and fusing at the porus. The color of the 

 receptaculum is always a deep reddish-brown which frequently makes 

 it difficult to distinguish its outline. 



The egg-sacs are carried very close to the abdomen. The eggs 

 are dark; in the living animal they look quite black, but in reality 

 they are a deep shade of brown. This applies only to freshly de- 

 posited eggs, as all Cyclops eggs from which the young are about to 

 emerge show a characteristic salmon tinge due to the color of the 

 bodies of the nauplius. 



The length of the female varies but little. The following five 

 measurements ^ve an approximate average for C. fuscus from this 

 locality. All measurements include the caudal setae. 



No. 1 3.75 mm. 



No. 2 3.2 mm. 



No. 3 3.4 mm. 



No. 4 3.4 mm. 



No. 5 : :3.58 mm. 



Average 3.46 mm. 



Schmeil gives 3.4 mm. Brewer's figures are much smaller — 1.4 mm.- 

 1.8 mm. The males are often only half as long as the females. An 

 average length is 1.75 mm. 



The color of the first four thoracic segments and the abdomen 

 from the posterior half of the first segment to the furca is usually a 

 dark green. The fifth thoracic segment, the stylets, and the fourth, 

 fifth, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth segments of the first antennae 

 are blue. The anterior half of the first abdominal segment is reddish- 

 brown. Occasionally there are irregular blotches and streaks of 

 blue on the posterior borders of the first four thoracic segments. 

 The remaining segments are a dirty yellow color, deeper on the 

 anterior border. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



C. fuscus may be readily distinguished from all other members 

 of the genus by its size, dark color, and closely Ij^ing dark egg-sacs- 

 The absence of the sense-club of the twelfth antennal segment, the 

 coarsely serrated hyaline plate of the seventeenth antennal segment, 

 the form of the receptacidum seminis, and the ciliated inner border 

 of the stylets are the most easily distinguishable characteristics of 

 this species. In order to simplify the comparison of C. fuscus with 

 C. albidus, I have arranged the following tabulated form for the 

 characters of the two species: 



Schmeil notes differences in the form of the spermatozoa and 

 their position in the spermatophore. The twelve points of difference 

 noted above should enable anyone to distinguisli the two forms 

 positively. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [Jail.^ 



Subgenus MARCOCYCLOPS Claus. 



Cyclops albidus Jurine. PI. I. 



Monoculus quadricorni^ var. albidus Jurine, '20, p. 44, pi. II, figs. 10 and 11. 

 Cyclops signatus var. tenuicornis Herrick and Turner, '95, pp. 106, 106, 



pi. XV, figs. 5-7; pi. XX, figs. 1-7; pi. XXXIII, figs. 1, 2. 

 Cyclops albidus Schmeil, '92, pp. 128-132, pi. I, figs. 8-146; pi. IV, fig. 15. 

 Ctjclops albidus Forbes, '97, pp. 47-49, pi. XIII. 

 Cyclops albidus Lilljeborg, '01, pp. 49-51, pi. Ill, figs. 21 and 22. 

 Cyclops albidus v. Daday, '06, p. 184. 

 Cyclops signatus annulicornis Byrnes, '09, pp. 10-13, pi. IV. 



Specific Description. — The first segment of the strongly arched 

 elliptical cephalothorax (PI. I, fig. 2), is in the proportion of 3 -.4 

 compared with the entire length of the cephalothorax. The lateral 

 angles of the segments are not prominent. The fifth segment is 

 rarely visible from above, owing to the arched form of the cephalo- 

 thorax. The first three segments are smooth along their posterior 

 borders. I find in all of the specimens examined from this locality 

 that the fourth segment has on its posterior border, laterally and 

 not extending to the median line, a row of very minute chitinous 

 serrations. These are only visible when the animal is turned on its 

 side. I find no mention of these serrations in any of the descriptions 

 of this species to which I have access. The fifth segment bears, 

 dorsally situated, three transverse rows of spinules. The last of 

 these is the only complete one and borders the segment posteriorly. 

 The second row does not extend to the median line. The first row 

 is quite short, lateral in position, and the spinules are considerably 

 larger than in the other two. Schmeil states in his note number 

 three, p. 130, that, with two exceptions, these rows of si^inules have 

 "never been observed." In Cragin's paper of '83 in his description 

 of Cyclops tenuicornis Claus (= Cyclops albidus Jurine), he saysi 

 "Either side of the fifth thoracic segment is furnished with three 

 transverse rows of serrulations, of which the posterior one is mar- 

 ginal. " Furthermore, he illustrates the point in his PI. II, fig. 13. 

 His drawing is inconsistent, however, with his description, as it does 

 not show the marginal row extending the entire width of the segment. 

 Forbes, very properly, does not mention the row of blimt spinules 

 between the insertion points of the fifth feet. This is not a "char- 

 acteristic, " as it is found in Cyclops fuscus Jurine. 



The width of the cephalothorax is to its length as 1 : 2. Its 

 length to that of the abdomen is as 7 : 4. (Schmeil reverses these 

 figures and gives abd. : ceph. : : 9 : 5, obviously an oversight). 



The abdomen is heavy; the first segment tapers only slightly, 

 but the enlargement at the anterior end extends beyond th(> width 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



of the last thoracic segment. The second and third segments are 

 cylindrical and their posterior margins are very slightly and unevenly 

 serrated, largely on the under side. The fourth segment has the 

 usual fringe of spines on its posterior edge, and tapers suddenly to 

 the insertion point of the stylets. The stylets (PI. I, fig. 4) are 

 short, but slightly divergent and smooth on their inner sides. This 

 is an important character which Forbes does not note in his descrip- 

 tion. The proportion of the length to the breadth of each ramus 

 is 3 : 1 . There are four well-developed apical bristles. The longest 

 is to the second in length as 7 : 5; the outer to the inner as 1 : 3. 

 They are all plumose, but not as densely so as in Cyclops fuscus 

 J urine. 



The first antennae vary very little in length. In the female they 

 usually reach to the middle or posterior border of the last thoracic 

 segment. They are seventeen-jointed, the terminal joints attenuated, 

 the last three being each armed with an hyaline plate. The edges 

 of these plates on the fifteenth and sixteenth segments are for the 

 most part entire, Ijut I have-repeatedly seen them, especially at the 

 base of the fifteenth segmental plate, minutely serrated. More 

 rarely these serrations extend along the entire edges of all three 

 plates. The plate of the last segment is always finely serrated on 

 its distal half. The point where these serrations cease and the 

 smooth edge begins is sharply defined by a much deeper notch or 

 indentation (see PI. I, fig. 8). The twelfth segment bears a well- 

 developed sense-club (PI. I, fig. 10). Its length is about equal to 

 that of the thirteenth segment. All of the segments, except the 

 three terminal ones, bear an irregularl}^ broken, longitudinal row of 

 minute spinules on their under side. The eighth, ninth, tenth, 

 twelfth and thirteenth segments have each a short row of small 

 cone-shaped serrations at the point of juncture with the following 

 segments, as in Cyclops fuscus. The twelfth segment (PI. I, fig. 10) 

 has, in addition, several (usually two) rows of smaller spinules 

 extending parallel to the marginal semicircular row. 



Marsh ('95) failed to find these "crowns of spines" on the antennae 

 of "a large number of mature females" of C. albidus which he 

 "examined with great care." He concludes that this peculiar 

 character "seems to be rarely true in our forms." Forbes has 

 found it in the specimens examined by him from many parts of the 

 country. I have never failed to find it in the local specimens. 



The third segment of the second antennae (PI. I, fig. 6) is short; 

 and somewhat pear-shaped. The armature of the swimming feet is- 

 as follows: 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



First pair — outer ramus, four spines, four setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 



Third pair — like second. 



Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setse; inner ramus, one 

 seta, two spines (inner smooth-edged), two setse (distal one 

 reduced) (see PI. I, fig. 14). 



The lower row of spinules on the lamella connecting the basal 

 segments of the third pair of swimming feet is very large and well 

 •developed (about twelve coarse spinules). 



The fifth foot (PI. I, fig. 13) is essentially like that of C. fuscus 

 Jurine. Lilljeborg, in his PI. Ill, fig. 21, shows the fifth foot differing 

 from that of C. fuscus (fig. 13) on the same plate by the absence of 

 the rows of spinules on the two segments. The fifth foot consists 

 of two segments. The basal segment is slightly convex on its outer 

 margin, while the inner margin is correspondingly concave (see 

 PI. I, fig. 13). Toward the inner lateral surface of this same segment 

 there are several, usually three, rows of well-developed spinules. 

 At the outer distal corner it bears a long seta, plumose on its distal 

 half. The distal segment is set well towards the inner side of the 

 lower segment and at the point of juncture is ornamented with a 

 f circle of small spines. It bears on its tip two heavy spines and a 

 slender seta. The inner spine is slightly longer than the outer. 

 At its base there is a semicircle of quite prominent spinules. Both 

 of these spines are more densely plumose on their inner edges. Be- 

 tween them and borne at the end of a truncated cone-shaped projec- 

 tion is the long middle seta. It is only slightly plumose at its distal 

 end, and these hairs (8-10 on each side) are placed at regularly 

 diminishing intervals. 



The shape of the receptaculum seminis (PI. I, fig. 12) can be readily 

 noted. The anterior division is almost elliptical when fully dis- 

 tended. The posterior portion is two-lobed and has the form of a 

 low, widely spread letter w. This organ is practically colorless, and 

 for this reason its form can be unmistakably observed. 



The egg-sacs (PI. I, fig. 2), carried at a considerable angle from the 

 abdomen, are nearly as long as the abdomen. In a 9 in which the 

 abdomen measured .6 mm. the egg-sacs were .57 mm. long. 



In discussing the size of this species, Forbes states that "the 

 usual length of the female in America is from 1.26-1.4 mm., but it 

 seems to be much greater (2.5 mm.) in the European representatives 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



of this species." It is interesting to note the measurement of the 

 following five females taken at random: 



No. 1 2.5 mm. 



No. 2 .2.51 mm. 



No. 3 2.21 mm. 



No. 4 2.50 mm. 



No. 5 2.47 mm. 



This gives an average measurement of 2.43 mm. for representatives 

 of the species from this locality — less than .1 mm. difference in size 

 from European forms. Taking Forbes' figures and the above 

 together, we get an average measurement of 1.88 mm. 



The color, a blue-gray, occasionally nearly black, is most prominent 

 in the stylets and last abdominal segment, the second, third, first 

 half of the fourth, ninth and tenth segments of the first antennae 

 ( 9 ) and in irregular transverse bands, usually four, on the cephalo- 

 thorax. The remaining portions of the animal are nearly colorless 

 or a pale shade of yellow, though I have frequently noted individuals 

 in which they were a bright blue-green. 



, The species seems to be one of the commonest not only in America^ 

 but all over the world. Forbes found it "in all localities examined." 

 In nearly all the lists of crustaceans to which I have access it is 

 recorded as a common but rarely abundant variety. 



Kofoid records it as "numerically the least important of the 

 dominant members of the genus in our plankton" (Illinois River). 

 I have found it to be one of the commonest of the Cydopidce. 



Miss Walker has studied the species in Todd's Pond, Oregon^ 

 where she found it to be, with Cyclops serrulatus, second in abundance 

 after Cyclops prasinus. 



In collections made during the summer of 1909, at Lake Winne- 

 pesaukee and in the vicinity of Cambridge, Mass.. in March and 

 April, 1910, C. albidus was a common but not an abundant form. 



Subgenus ORTHOCYCLOPS Forb33. 



Cyclops modestus Herrick. PI. II, figs. 0-11. 



Cyclops modestus Herrick, '83a, p. .500. 



Cyclops modestus Herrick and Turner, '9.5, pp. 108, 109, pi. XXI, figs. 1-5. 



Cyclops modestus Mansh, '93, pp. 213, 214, pi. V, figs. 10-13. 



Cyclops capilliferus Forbes, '93, pp. 248, 249, pi. XL, figs. 14-17; pi. XLI, 



fig. 18. 

 Cyclops modestus Forbes, '97, pp. .51-53, pi. XV, fig. 4; pi. XVI, figs. 1-3. 

 Cyclops modestus Byrnes, '09, pp. 26, 27, pi. XI, figs. 4 and 5. 



Specific Description.- — The shape of the cephalothorax is very 

 characteristic in this species (PI. II, fig. 6). The first segment reaches 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



its maximum width considerably in front of the posterior border, 

 and the anterior border line is somewhat straighter than usual, 

 resembling C. prasinus in this respect. This segment is to the 

 entire thorax as 5 : 8. The fourth segment is regularly, semicircu- 

 larly excavate on its posterior margin. Forbes finds the posterior 

 edges of the first three segments irregularly notched, but the fourth 

 smooth. I am unable to verify this observation; all the thoracic 

 .segments of specimens examined by me had smooth posterior edges. 

 The thorax is about twice as long as wide and one-third as long again 

 as the abdomen. 



In the male the cephalothorax (PI. II, fig. 7) tapers only a very 

 little. The first segment is distinctly concave on its anterior border. 

 It expands abruptly in its anterior third, but its middle does not 

 attain the width of the preceding thoracic segment. The first three 

 segments have smooth or faintly uneven posterior margins. The 

 last segment Forbes notes to be "peculiar in lacking the usual fringe 

 of spines on the posterior edge." I have noted on either side of the 

 anal opening peculiar, out-curving, hook-like projections of the 

 chitin (PI. II, fig. 8) on the posterior border of the fourth abdominal 

 segment. Otherwise its edge is smooth. It is interesting to note 

 that half-way between the anterior border of the anal opening and 

 the posterior margin of the third abdominal segment there are 

 present in this, as in all the Cyclopidce, two peculiar button-like 

 projections whose function vasiy be sensory (PI. II, fig. 8). 



The stylets (PI. II, fig. 8) are rather slim and about twice as long 

 as the fourth alidominal segment. Their length is four times their 

 width. The lateral spine is inserted slightly beyond the middle of 

 each ramus and from this point half-way to the posterior margin 

 of the stylets, they are in the female peculiarly excavate. Along 

 the curving line that marks this character there is a very minute 

 row of spinules. The outer apical seta is rather short and finely 

 plumose. The other three apical setse are all well developed. The 

 outer is to the inner as 4 : 3. The middle is the longest and is to the 

 next in length as 3 : 2. Though Forbes has shown the inner borders 

 of the stylets to be densely and coarsely plumose in his fig. 4 of 

 PL XV, he fails to mention this character in his description. I have 

 never seen a specimen of C. modestus with the stylets as densely 

 ])lumose as he shows them to be. All of the specimens examined 

 from this locality showed very fine and often unevenly distributed 

 hairs on the inner surfaces of the stylets (PI. II, fig. 8). They are 

 only visible under a high power. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



The female first antennae consist of sixteen segments. Herrick 

 notes a similar form with seventeen joints, but this again I am unable 

 to verify. They extend a little beyond the posterior margin of the 

 first thoracic segment. The second, third, tenth, and thirteenth 

 segments bear unusually long, heavy, plumose setae. In the males 

 these spines, which correspond to those of the third segment in the 

 female antennae, are very conspicuous (PI II, fig. 7). When the 

 first antennae are folded under the body they protrude as shown in 

 the figure. This also occurs when the female aniemiap are folded 

 under the cephalothorax. The female antennae show an unusual 

 change of direction between the third and fourth segments, giving 

 the animal a characteristic appearance and making the females 

 resemble the males to the naked eye. On the fourteenth and fifteenth 

 segments of the first female antennae occur several characters that 

 may be sensory in function. The fourteenth segment bears a minute 

 sensory hair and a verj^ inconspicuous, transparent, hyaline plate 

 that contains about twelve coarse serrations (PI. II, fig. 11). The 

 fifteenth segment bears a smooth-edged hyaline plate of which the 

 distal end is club-shaped and protrudes considerably beyond the 

 anterior end of the segment. Forbes ('97) indicated the position 

 of this plate in his fig. 1, PI. XVI, of the first female antennae, but he 

 seems to have overlooked the character of the organ. In the figure, 

 the positions of the large setae of the fourteenth and fifteenth segments 

 are indicated. 



The armature of the three segmented swimming feet is very 

 constant. The setae and the apical spines are long and slender. 

 Forbes notes that "the distal segments of the third and fourth pairs 

 of legs turn inward in a way peculiar to this species." The inner 

 border of the distal segment of the inner ramus of all four pairs is 

 finely plumose. The feet armature is as follows: 



First pair — outer ramus, four spines, four setae; inner ramus, six 



setae. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, six 



setae. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, six 



setae. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setae. 



The lamellae connecting the swimming feet have a peculiar form. 

 PL II, fig. 10, shows this feature in the third pair. In the fourth pair 

 the place of the seta on the basal joint is taken by a short chitinous 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



point. The lamella of the second pair is similar to that of the third, 

 while in the first pair the chitin points have become quite rounded 

 and smooth. 



The fifth foot (PL II, fig. 9) is generally considered as having three 

 joints. Forbes states that it "has three freely movable segments, 

 though the basal one is small." Miss Byrnes simply states that 

 "the fifth foot is very distinctly three-jointed, and not 'obscurely' as 

 Herrick observed." The basal segment is certainly very short, 

 though its presence is no longer a matter of conjecture. Whether 

 it is "freely movable" I am unable to say. The second segment 

 is almost square and bears a short seta on its outer side. They are 

 both plumose and the larger is borne at the end of a slight projection 

 of the segment. The shorter of these set® is usually folded under the 

 longer, as shown in the figure. The rudimentary feet in this species 

 are unusually large. 



The receptaculum seminis is very much like that of C. bicuspidatus 

 Claus. The anterior division is very low, extending but a little 

 beyond the porus. The posterior, bag-shaped portion reaches half- 

 way to the posterior margin of the abdominal segment. 



The egg-sacs are narrow and extend a little beyond the ends of 

 the stylets. They usually contain from 10-12 dark ovae. 



Forbes gives 1.2 mm. for the length of C. modestus. 1 find it 

 slightly larger, 1.3 mm. being an average length for females. 



The color of this species is most beautiful, violet and lavender 

 shades predominating. It is evenly distributed in the chitin and 

 persists in preserved material. There are usually a number of 

 large, orange-colored globules below the chitin. These are specially 

 numerous in the cephalothorax and the swimming feet. 



C. modestus can be readily distinguished from all other species by 

 the sixteen- jointed first antennae, the three-jointed fifth foot, the 

 very characteristic stylets, and the receptaculum seminis. 



While nowhere an abundant species, C. modestus appears to be 

 very generally distribute^d over the United States. Forbes reports 

 it from several localities hi Illinois and from Grebe Lake in the 

 Yellowstone Park. Marsh found it in Rush Lake, Wisconsin, and 

 Herrick in Cullman County, Alabama. Miss Byrnes has recently 

 studied the species from the Long Island waters. I have found it, 

 always in small numbers, one of the rarer species of the genus from 

 this locality. 



In a collection from "Fresh Pond," Cambridge, Mass., made in 

 the fall of 1909, this form outnum])ered all other species. It occurs 




1914.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



also in collections from Lake Winnepesaukee made during July and' 

 August, 1909. 



Subgenus MICROCYCLOPS Glaus. 

 Cyclops varioans Sars. PI. Ill, figs. 6-10. 



Cyclops varicans Sars, '62, pp. 252, 253. 



Cyclops varicans Schmeil, '91, pp. 33, 34; '92, pp. 116-118, pi. VI, figs. 1-5.. 



Cyclops varicans Forbes, '97, pp. 63 and 64. 



Cyclops varicajis Lilljeborg, '01, pi. IV, fig.s. 23, 24, pp. 72-74. 



Cyclops riibelhis Lilljeborg, '01, pi. IV, figs. 25 and 26, pp. 75-77. 



Cyclops bicolor Byrnes, '09, pi. XIII, pp. 29-31. 



Synonymy and Distribution. — Though I am unable to translate 

 Lilljeborg's Swedish description of his new species C. rubellus, I am 

 convinced from the Latin synopsis as well as his drawings of the 

 receptaculum seminis and abdomen that this species is synonymous 

 with C. varicans Sars. His drawing of the receptaculum seminis 

 shows this organ to have the form of that pictured by Schmeil (Taf. 

 VI, fig. 3) with a slightly greater expansion of the "wings" of the 

 anterior division. By a careful study of this organ in a number of 

 specimens, I have concluded that what Lilljeborg pictures as the 

 receptaculum seminis of the type C. varicans (see Taf. IV, fig. 24, of 

 his paper of '01) is the extreme form of narrow anterior portion, 

 Schmeil's drawing showing a slightly greater expansion of this same 

 division. Lilljel;)org's drawing of the receptaculum of C. rubellus and 

 my own (PI. Ill, fig. 10) of this organ in C. varicans are examples of 

 the extremely wide and wing-like form. The proportional lengths 

 of the caudal setse, as shown by Lilljeborg, are identical with those 

 of the typical varicans (PI. Ill, figs. 6 and 7). 



Miss Byrnes in her recent paper (March, '09) has described a species 

 of Cyclops under the name of C. bicolor. Her description of the 

 antenna, which she states "contain each twelve segments," at once 

 suggests C. varicans, for nowhere do I find a record of C. bicolor with 

 more than eleven joints in the first female antenniB. Schmeil gives 

 eleven, Lilljeborg 10-11, and Marsh has noted a form with ten 

 segmented antennae, though he finds the usual number is eleven. 

 Herrick, with whose description she seems to have compared her 

 own, also gives eleven as the number of female antennal segments. 

 Miss Byrnes' formula for the swimming feet agrees exactly with that 

 of specimens examined from this locality. In speaking of the 

 variation of this species, she says: "The species C. bicolor is usually 

 placed {e.g., by Marsh) among Cyclops having ten or eleven segments. 

 The occurrence, therefore, of a twelve-jointed antenna shows that 

 considerable variation may occur in this organ. Except in this 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



respect, the form from Cold Spring Harbor agrees with Professor 

 Marsh's description." The above extract needs no comment. 

 Herrick assigns C. varicans a place among the twelve-jointed-antennse 

 forms having a ^wo-segmented fifth foot. This may account for 

 Miss Byrnes' error, for Herrick's drawing of the fifth foot of C. varicans 

 is quite incorrect. 



C. varicans is one of the rarer species of the genus. Schmeil 

 foiind it sparingly in the vicinity of Halle. Lilljeborg reports it and 

 •describes it from Sweden. Herrick found it but once, and Miss 

 Byrnes also collected it in a single instance from a pond on Long 

 Island, describing it as a twelve-jointed variation of C. bicolor. In 

 his summary of species Forbes records it as "a fairly common species 

 throughout the range of Cyclops in North America." I have found 

 it in small numbers in the March and April, 1909, collections in this 

 locality and sparingly in the vicinity of Cambridge, Mass., and 

 from Lake Winnepesaukee collections taken in July and August, 1909. 



Specific Description. — The first segment of the almost elliptical 

 cephalothorax (PI. Ill, fig. 6) is about as long as wide and a little 

 over half as long as the entire thorax (3 : 5). The lateral angles of 

 the third, fourth, and especially the fifth thoracic segments are 

 prominent. The proportion of cephalothorax and abdomen is as 

 10 : 7. The posterior borders of all the thoracic segments are 

 smooth. The fifth segment is somewhat flattened and extended 

 laterally. Its lateral edges protrude considerably beyond the first 

 abdominal seghient. At the ends of these wing-like projections of 

 the fifth thoracic segment are inserted long, curving, plumose setse, 

 which are usually considered homologous to the outer setse of the 

 basal segments of the two-jointed rudimentary fifth feet. The 

 fifth feet are inserted at the inner corners of the lateral projections 

 of the fifth thoracic segment on its posterior edge (PL III, fig. 9). 



The first abdominal segment is considerably expanded in its 

 anterior half (PI. Ill, figs. 6 and 10). The entire abdomen, which 

 is rather slim, tapers gradually to the furca. The posterior borders 

 of the first three segments are smooth. On the posterior edge of 

 the fourth abdominal segment, ventrally placed and rarely extending 

 half way around the circumference of the segment, there is present 

 a short row of long serrations. 



The stylets (PI. Ill, fig. 7) taper slightly and are carried very 

 close together. They are slightly shorter than the last two abdominal 

 segments taken together. The outer apical bristle is rather heavy, 

 sparsely plumose, and nearly as long as the delicate inner one. Of 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



the two developed apical setae, the inner longer one is to the outer 

 as 10 : 7. Schmeil shows both of these setae to be evenly plumose 

 on their distal seven-eighths. This character is rarely present in the 

 specimens from this vicinit^^ The anterior plumose portion is 

 replaced by a short row of delicate spines on either side of the setae 

 (PL III, fig. 7) . These do not merge into the hair-like forms gradually, 

 but end abruptly at the beginning of the plumes as in the long 

 median caudal seta of C. phaleratus. The lateral spine is inserted 

 two-thirds of the length of the stylets from their anterior border. 

 It is usually delicately plumose, although the bare form is not rare. 



The female first antennae may have either eleven or twelve seg- 

 ments. The number given by Schmeil is twelve, but I have frequently 

 found eleven-jointed sexually mature forms, bearing eggs. Such 

 forms occur more frequently in late winter and the twelve-jointed- 

 antennae forms in April and May (PI. Ill, figs. 6 and 8). The antennae 

 are a little over two-thirds as long as the first thoracic segment. 

 The division from eleven to twelve joints takes place in the third 

 joint. The fourth, fifth and sixth joints are often narrower than 

 the seventh and eighth. Most of the antennal bristles are not 

 plumose. Schmeil notes the presence of a well-developed, closelj^ 

 lying sense-club on the ninth segment. This I cannot discover on 

 the specimens that have come under my observation. In its place 

 there is a minute sensory (?) hair. 



The first antennae of the male are peculiar in the unusual develop- 

 ment of the sensory structures of the first division. These are 

 larger than in any other species of the genus and may be readily 

 noted even under a slight magnification as long blue, semi-transparent, 

 narrow bag-shaped structures on the posterior side of the antennae. 



The swimming feet are all two-jointed. The outer ramus of the 

 fourth pair is generally visible from above in life. This is due to 

 the unusually large lamella connecting these feet which makes them 

 protrude at a greater lateral angle. Schmeil notes that the fourth 

 pair of swimming feet is less fully developed than the other three 

 pairs. In fig. 11 of PI. Ill I have shown a foot of the third pair. 

 It is interesting to note an indication of the third segment; a row of 

 .short hairs at the middle of the distal segment of the outer ramus 

 and a group of longer hairs on the corresponding segment of the 

 inner ramus. This character is always present in the first three 

 pairs of swimming feet. 



The armature of the swimming feet is as follows: 



First pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 

 seta, one spine, four setae. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, five setae. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, five setae. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, three setae. 



The above armature is quite constant. Herriclc states the fifth 

 foot is two-jointed. Since he has only collected the species in a 

 single instance, this must be considered an error. There is often a 

 very inconspicuous indication of a former large basal segment 

 (PI. Ill, fig. 9), but the movable fifth foot consists of a single cylin- 

 drical joint. At the middle of its distal end there is borne a long, 

 delicatel}^ plumose seta (PL III, fig. 9). 



The shape of the receptaculimi seminis has already been discussed. 

 Fig. 5 of PI. Ill shows what is probably the extreme ''wing-like" 

 formation of the anterior division. The posterior portion is about 

 as long as the anterior and has the form of a short bag. The porus 

 is situated immediately between the two portions on the narrow 

 transverse division that extends entirely across the first abdominal 

 segment. 



The egg-sacs contain from ten to twelve ovae and are carried at a 

 slight angle from the abdomen. 



The following measurements of six females taken at different 

 times give an average length of .867 mm. 



The females average .21 mm. in width. The males are somewhat 

 smaller than the females — .69 mm. being an average length. Schmeil 

 gives .8-.92 mm. for the size of the females and "about" .7 mm. for 

 the males. Sars' figures are somewhat greater — 1 mm. Herrick 

 gives .8 mm. 



The color of C. varicans is ordinarily very pale. A faint shade of 

 yellow is noticeable throughout the body, making the animal un- 

 usually inconspicuous. It may ])e readily distinguished from all 

 other species of the genus by its short, twelve-jointed antennae, the 

 very characteristic receptaculum seminis, and th(^ two-jointed swim- 

 ming feet. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



Subgenus EUCYCLOPS Glaus. 



dyclops prasinus Fischer. PI. HI, figs. 1-5. 



Cyclops prasinus Fischer. '00, pp. ().52-654, pi. XX, figs. 19-26a. 



Cyclops fluriatiliH Ucrnck, 'S2, p. 2ol, pi. VII, figs. 1-9. 



Cyclops magnoctarus Cragin, 'S3, pp. 70, 71, pi. Ill, figs. 14-23. 



Cyclops prasinus Sfhmeil, '92, pp. 150-156, pi. V, figs. 1-5. 



Cyclops fluviatiiis Herrick and Turner, '95, pp. 114, 115, pi. XXVI, figs. 1-8; 



pi. XXX, fig. 1. 

 Cyclops prasinus Forbes, '97, pp. 57-59, pi. XIX, figs. 1 and 2; pi. XX, 



figs. 1 and 2. 

 • Cyclops fluviatiiis Brewer, '98, pp. 135, 136. 

 Cyclops prasinus v. Daday, '06, p. 180. 

 Cyclops fluviatiiis Byrnes, '09, pp. 28, 29, pi. XV, figs. 1 and 2. 



Specific Description. — The form of the cephalothorax in this, the 

 smallest species found in this locality, is that of an ellipse slightl}" 

 flattened at the. ends. The first segment is to the total length of the 

 cephalothorax as 5:7. Its length is to its width as 5:4. The 

 lateral angles of all the thoracic segments are obscure. Their 

 posterior borders are unserrated. The lateral edges of the last 

 segment bear each a fringe of very minute hairs (PI. Ill, fig. 5). 



The abdomen, which is to the cephalothorax as 5 : 9, is rather 

 slender and tapers only slightlj" towards its posterior end. The 

 first segment is enlarged at its anterior end and about as wide as the 

 last cephalothoracic segment. The posterior borders of all the 

 abdominal segments are unevenly and minutely serrated. 



The short stylets (Pi. Ill, figs. 1 and 2) stand well apart in the 

 living animal. The lateral spines are situated f of the length of the 

 stylets from their anterior end. Of the apical setse only two are 

 well developed. The inner and outer bristles are small. Of these 

 the outer is much heavier and is slightly shorter than the inner. 

 Neither attains the length of the stylets. Of the large middle pair 

 the inner is to the outer as 5:3. Brewer gives 4 :5 "or equal." 

 The larger of the two is four times, the shorter about three times, as 

 long as the stylets. Both are delicately plumose. 



The first pair of (twelve-jointed) antennae (PI. Ill, fig. 1) reach in 

 the female to the posterior border of the third thoracic segment. 

 Forbes finds them often reaching "quite to the first abdominal 

 segment. " The eighth joint is the longest, exceeding that of the two 

 preceding segments. Dr. Schmeil finds on the ninth segment a 

 "well-developed sense-club," and, in his foot-note, states that 

 Richard "even denied the presence of a sense-club." All of my 

 specimens agree with Forbes' description in the absence of the 

 sense-club, but "minute sensory bristle" on the tenth segment. 

 This seems, then, to be undoubtedly a characteristic point of differ- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ence from the European forms. The three terminal joints are 

 slightly curved and each bears a well-developed hyaline plate. The 

 edges of these plates, which Forbes found to be entire, seem to vary. 

 I have frequently found them finely serrated on the distal third of 

 the terminal segmental plate. Again I have noted a very distinct 

 notch or indentation at the posterior end of the serrations. This 

 resembles somewhat the characteristic "notch" in the corresponding 

 plate of Cyclops leuckarti Claus, though it is not so deep nor con- 

 spicuous. Occasionally I have observed a specimen in which all 

 three hyaline plates were finely serrated. The commonest form has 

 two of the plates with smooth edges, though the plate of the last 

 segment invariably has the slight notch mentioned above (PI. Ill, 

 fig. 3). 



The very long and strong setae on the first and fourth antennal 

 segments and the change of direction of the remaining segments 

 beyond the fourth, as well as the short caudal stylets, suggest a 

 superficial resemblance to Cyclops modestus Herrick, 



The four pairs of swimming feet are armed as follows : 



First pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, six 



setae. 

 Third pair — like second. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, three setae. 



Both the spines and setae of these feet are peculiarly long and 

 slender. 



The rudimentary fifth foot (PI. Ill, fig. 4) consists of a single seg- 

 ment, armed with a spine and two setae. The spine is inserted 

 immediately above the characteristic bulge of the minutely plumose 

 inner side. The longer of the two setae is borne at the end of a cone- 

 shaped projection of the distal end of the segment. The remaining 

 seta is inserted on the outer side of the segment at the base of the 

 cone-like process. Its length is two-thirds that of the apical seta 

 and slightly greater than that of the spine. Both the setae are 

 delicately plumose; the spine is more coarsely so. Brewer notes that 

 the "three setae" are bare in his specimens. 



The form of the receptaculiim seminis (PI. Ill, fig. 5) is the most 

 characteristic feature of this species, though it is frequently quite 

 difficult to distinguish owing to the density of the pigment matter 

 in the first abdominal segment. It consists of two very distinct 




1914;.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 47 



divisions. The anterior portion has a central arm extending half- 

 way to the upper edge of the first abdominal segment, whicii branches 

 into two wing-lik(^ i:)rojections at right angles to the central arm and 

 extending transv(n'sely across the abdomen on either side of the 

 median line. The outer ends of these projections are often slightly 

 enlarged. Forbes and Schmeil both find that these side arms are 

 "S-shaped." Among all the specimens that I have examined from 

 this locality, I have noted the "S shape" in only one instance. In 

 many cases the outer ends of the wing-forms tend to turn up slightly, 

 but the "S-shaped" canals are certainly the exception and not the 

 rule among the local representatives of this species. Consequently, 

 in my drawing (PI. Ill, fig. 5) I have shown what I consider a rather 

 more characteristic form of the receptaculum seminis for C. prasinns. 

 This somewhat insignificant detail shows that the receptaculum 

 seminis may be a variable character. 



The portion of the receptaculum behind the suture consists of two 

 lateral sacs connected by a narrow transverse canal lying close under 

 the suture. In the middle of the anterior edge of this lower con- 

 necting arm is the porus. The anterior division of the receptaculum 

 fuses with the posterior at this same point. 



The contents of the upper and lower portions differ in appearance 

 only. Dr. Schmeil has proved that the spermatozoa in the upper 

 portion are simply more densely packed together than in the lower. 



The egg-sacs contain only a few ova. I have never noted more 

 than ten; seven is an average number. They adhere closely to the . 

 abdomen, often covering two-thirds of its dorsal area. 



An average length for the female from this locality is .82 mm. 

 Forbes gives .48-.7 mm. Some of the European measurements 

 are as follows: 



Vosseler 1.0 mm. 



Richard 9 mm. (after Schmeil). 



Vernet 88 mm. 



Schmeil 8-.9 mm. 



The males average .62 mm. long and .14 wide. They have a very 

 long setae at the distal end of the first division of the first antennae. 



The color seems to be quite constant. The first thoracic segment 

 is a pale yellowish-brown with irregular patches of blue-green along 

 its posterior border. The remaining thoracic segments are a deep 

 shade of blue-green. The first abdominal segment is brown, more 

 dense in the anterior half. The remaining segments are irregularly 

 blotched with the thoracic shade of green which becomes solid in 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



the stylets. The first pair of antennae are a brownish-yellow; their 

 anterior border is often tinged with green. Forbes has "seen both 

 blue and pink individuals." Herrick found that the color varies 

 "from deep indigo to greenish-brown." Cragin states: "Animal 

 dirty blue-green, antennae lighter. Dark green pigment masses are 

 scattered beneath the integument in various places, particularly 

 along the anterior side of the first antennae." 



This species is quite generally distributed over the eastern and 

 central United States. Herrick found it in Lake Minnetonka, Minn. 

 Marsh reports the species from Lake Erie, Lake Michigan, and some 

 of the smaller lakes of Michigan and Wisconsin. Forbes has found 

 it in collections from Sister Lake, Fla., and many localities in the 

 State of Illinois. As C. fluviatilis Herrick, Brewer reports it from 

 the vicinity of Lincoln, Nebraska, and Miss Byrnes from Long 

 Island. Miss E. R. Walker reports it as the most abundant form 

 from Todd's Pond, Oregon. It is one of the most abundant forms 

 in September and October dredgings, but I have noted only a few 

 individuals during the winter months. 



It is easily distinguished by its small size, its habit of swimming 

 near the surface, its dark color (it frequently appears to be black 

 to the naked eye), and, under the microscope, by the very charac- 

 teristic form of the receptaculum seminis and short caudal setae. 



Subgenus PARACYCLOPS Claus. 

 ■Cyclops phaleratus Koch. PI. IV, figs. 1-4. 



Cyclops phaleratus Koch, '35-'41, Heft 21, pp. 8, 9, pi. IX. 



Cyclops pcrarmatus Cragin, '83, pp. 72, 73, pi. I, figs. 9-18. 



Cyclops phaleratus Schmeil, '92, pp. 170-178, pi. VIII, figs. 1-11. 



Cyclops phaleratus Herrick and Turner, '9.5, pp. 120, 121, pi. XMI, figs. 1-7; 



pi. XVIII, figs. 2-2d; pi. XIX, fig. 1; pi. XXI, figs. 6-10. 

 Cyclops phaleratus Marsh, '95, pp. 19, 20. 

 Cyclops phaleratus Forbes, '97, pp. 59-62, pi. XX, fig. 3. 

 Cyclops phaleratus Lilljeborg, '01, pp. 10.5-109, pi. VI, figs. 20, 21. 

 Cyclops phaleratus Byrnes, '09, pp. 31-33, pi. XIV, figs. 1-9. 



Specific Description. — The first segment of the unusually broad 

 cephalothorax is a little longer than the other four thoracic segments. 

 Its width is slightly greater than its length. The posterior borders 

 of the first three thoracic segments are smooth. The fourth segment 

 is ornamented with a minute fringe of short serrations. The chitinous 

 covering of the fifth thoracic segment is compo.sed of a continuous 

 cylinder like the abdominal segments, and not of a dorsal and ventral 

 plate, as is the case in the corresponding segment of other species of 

 this genus. This segment is armed ventrally along its posterior 

 margin by a row of heavy, cone-shaped teeth (PI. IV, fig. 4) which 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



extend at a slight angle and not parallel to the body. This row is, 

 furthermore, not continuous, but generally interrupted in the middle 

 for a short distance on either side of the median line. Occasionally, 

 however, I have noted specimens in which this row of spinules is 

 practically continuous, though there is always a slight break. The 

 length of the entire cephalothorax to that of the abdomen is as 7 : 5. 

 The first abdominal segment is very slightly smaller than the 

 fifth thoracic segment, and the whole abdomen tapers but little. 

 HoAV small this taper is may be readily seen from the following pro- 

 portional width of each segment at its posterior l^order. 



First segment 27 



Second segment 26 



Third segment 24 



Fourth segment 21 



The proportional lengths of the four abdominal segments beginning 

 with first are 11 :7 :6 : 2. All the segments are cylindrical. The 

 posterior borders of the first, second, and third segments are minutelj" 

 serrated (PI. IV, fig. 2). The last abdominal segment is less than one- 

 fifth as long as the first segment and bears on its posterior border a 

 fringe of unusually long and heavy spines (PI. IV, fig. 2). 



The stylets are short (PI. IV, fig. 2). Their length and width are 

 to each other as 4 : 3 — a proportion that shows them to be very wide. 

 Below the point of insertion of the short lateral spine, which may or 

 may not be plumose, the stylets taper rapidly. In addition to this 

 lateral spine, there is a row of slightly shorter spinules (usually from- 

 four to six), extending from the lateral spine, ventrally, slightly below 

 the middle of the side of each stylet. Forbes mentions "a row of 

 long spinules on the ventral side of each ramus, extending from the 

 middle line of the anterior border to the point of insertion of the 

 lateral spine." I have never noted such a row of spinules in any of 

 my specimens, though this entire minutely spinose armament of the 

 stylets must be considered a variable feature. , There are two or 

 three rows of minute hairs extending obliquely from the middle of 

 the anterior border of each stylet towards the posterior border. 

 The interior border of the stylets is often .plumose (Schmeil found 

 an "unbehaarten Innenrande") and the inner and posterior dorsal 

 surfaces are armed with irregular groups and rows of short, blunt 

 spines (PI. IV, fig. 2). Forbes and Schmeil both note that the 

 outermost apical bristle "is placed high up on the side of the stylet./' 

 In his fig. 1 on pi. VIII, Schmeil has shown this to be the case, but 

 in fig. 2 of the same plate he shows this spine inserted directly beside 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the shorter of the two developed caudal setse. I have found it only 

 as he shows in fig. 2 (PL IV, fig. 2). This spine is often quite blunt 

 and always densely plumose on both sides. At the point of insertion 

 there are several long, dorsally placed serrations extending a third 

 of the distance about the base of the spine. The innermost bristle 

 is very delicate, about as long as the outer, and plumose on its outer 

 side only. Of the two well-developed median bristles, the inner is 

 from two and one-half to three times as long as the outer. Its first 

 third is bare, the middle portion fringed with small spines, and the 

 last third finely plumose. It is longer than the abdomen and un- 

 usually wide at its insertion point. The smaller of the two developed 

 caudal setae is bare for one-quarter of its length, thence to its tip it 

 is fringed with a row of small spines on the outside and delicately 

 plumose on the inner. Between the insertion point and the beginning 

 of the outside row of spines there is often a minute fringe of hairs. 

 The dorsal median seta is quite slender, a little longer than the outer 

 apical spine, and not plumose. 



The first antennae of the female (PI. IV, fig. 3) are eleven-jointed 

 in most cases, though the ten-jointed form appears occasionally. 

 Sehmeil records only the ten-jointed form from Germany, and 

 Lilljeborg the same from Sweden in his paper of 1901. Forbes 

 states that they "may be either ten- or eleven-segmented," and 

 Miss Byrnes has noted a single individual in which the left antenna 

 had eleven, the right but ten segments. I have noted a similar 

 individual in a single case. Herrick found that ''the antenna is 

 usually ten-jointed, but frequently is eleven-jointed (?), and is much 

 shorter than the first thoracic segment." The question-mark seems 

 to indicate some doubt as to the existence of the eleven-jointed form^ 

 though subsequent workers have verified his observation in the case 

 of the American representatives of this species. It is interesting to 

 note here that the eleven-jointed form has, as far as I am able to 

 ascertain, been recorded only by the American investigators. In 

 the eleven- jointed form there is borne at the distal end of the eighth 

 segment, in place of a sense-club, a minute sensory bristle. The 

 antennae taper but little in the first nine joints, the last two being 

 considerably narrower than the others. The last joint bears an 

 unusually strongly developed seta. The armature of the other 

 antennal joints is quite uniform. The length of the female first 

 antennae is a little more than half that of the first cephalothoracic 

 segment. 



Sehmeil states the first antennae of the male are normal. I have 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



noted that there is on the last division an unusually large spine, set 

 well towards the distal end. There is also a small blunt spine with a 

 large comb-like fringe on its outer margin, placed about in the 

 middle of the second large division of the male antennae. The re- 

 maining spines are rather smaller than in other species. On the 

 joints of the first division there are present, on the under side, the 

 usual long, blunt, finely plumose sensory structures. 



The second antennse are very short and broad. The long curving 

 seta of the basal segment I have never found to be evenly plumose 

 as Schmeil shows it. It 'is usually armed with a row of short spinules 

 on each side of its distal three quarters, while the first quarter bears, 

 only on its upper side, an uneven row of longer spinules. The 

 second segment bears on its outer side a double row of delicate spines, 

 and on its upper side a fringe of spinules and near its distal end a 

 peculiar spine. The distal half of this spine is curved and bears on 

 its upper side a comb-like fringe of fine spinules. The smaller spine 

 on the distal end of the third segment has this same peculiar curve 

 and fringe. The curved setae at the top of the fourth segment are 

 short and very broad. 



The four pairs of swimming feet are all three-segmented, both 

 spines and setae are well developed, and the outer edges of the first 

 and second' segments of each ramus bear rows of heavy spinules. 

 The armature is most variable. For example, I have found on the 

 outer ramus of the first pair either three or four spines and five setae. 

 Again in the second pair on the corresponding ramus I have found 

 four spines with either four or five setce. In another case I have found 

 on the outer ramus of the fourth foot of the right side, three spines 

 and five setae and on the same ramus of the opposite side four spines 

 and four setae. Furthermore, the armature of the inner ramus of 

 the second and third pairs of swimming feet differs consistently from 

 that given by Forbes, in the presence of an extra seta on the inner 

 side. This seta is very obscure and may be overlooked on account 

 of the long spinules on the same side of the ramus, but its existence 

 can be positively identified by its position and by the fact that, 

 though it is often not much larger than the accompanying spinules, 

 it is the only one that is plumose. I give this rather lengthy dis- 

 cussion of the swimming feet merely as an example of the armature 

 not being constant nor reliable as a point of differentiation of species. 

 (See Introduction.) The following is an average armature for the 

 local specimens: 



First pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 

 seta, one spine, four setae. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Third pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setae. 



The fifth feet (PI. IV, fig. 4) are merely flange-like projections of 

 the fifth thoracic segment. They are more lateral than ventral, and 

 there is ordinarily no line marking the position of a former segment. 

 Occasionallj', however, I have noted a faint indication of a possible 

 segment, extending from the base of the outer spine obliquely to a 

 point below the inner spine where the large row of serrations con- 

 necting the two fifth feet ceases (see description of cephalothorax 

 and fig. 4, PI. IV). The fifth foot is armed with three nearly equal 

 spines, of which the inner is coarsely plumose, the middle one more 

 finely plumose, and the outer bare or finely and sparingly plumose 

 on its outer side. Schmeil's criticism of Brady's '' otherwise excellent 

 drawing, " in which he shows all three spines to be plumose, is hardly 

 justifiable (see note 2, p. 176, of Schmeil's monograph). In addition 

 to the three large spines there are several small serrations about the 

 base of the inner spine and an uneven mass of similar small serrations 

 laterally below the outer spine. 



The receptaculum seminis 'consists of two nearly equal divisions 

 extending as narrow bands transversely across the entire first 

 abdominal segment. The porus is situated in the middle of the 

 short, median, common portion. Owing to the dark color of this 

 species, the structure of the receptaculum is extremely difficult to 

 observe. 



The egg-sacs are l^orne close to the abdomen and frequently extend 

 quite beyond the end of the stylets-. They usually contain from ten 

 to twenty large dark eggs. The oviducts are of unusual interest in this 

 species. While in all other species they terminate within the cephalo- 

 thorax, in C. phaleratus they extend as a blind duct to the anterior 

 border of the fourth abdominal segment (PI. IV, fig. 1). 



The following measurements of six females covering collections 

 from the same spot during two years, give an average length of 

 1.73 mm. 



No. 1 Total length = 1.6 



No. 2 " " = 1.95 



No. 3 : " " = 1.88 



No. 4 " " = 1.78 



No. 5 " " = 1.61 



No. 6 " " = 1.6 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



The males are only a little smaller — 1.6 mm. being an average length 

 for local specimens. The coloring of C. phaleratus is most brilliant. 

 The ground-color, which in this species is directly in the chitin, is a 

 brick-red. The second thoracic segment, the last abdominal segment, 

 the stylets and the caudal setae and spines, the swimming feet, the 

 mouth parts, second antennae, and the last segment of the first antennae 

 are sky-blue, which varies in intensity. Often these parts appear 

 quite colorless. The egg-sacs are dark blue or lavender in the first 

 stages of development. 



C. phaleratus is a pelagic species. In aquaria it may often be 

 found a little above the water line, where it sometimes crawls even 

 beyond the upper margin of the meniscus line. Its swimming 

 motion is a rapidly darting one. The easiest way of distinguishing 

 it from all other members of the genus is by its superficial resemblance 

 to the genus Canthocamptus. The short, eleven-jointed antennae, 

 and form of the rudimentary fifth feet, are certain microscopic points 

 of identification. 



This species seems to be very widely distributed in America, though 

 nowhere is it particularly abundant. Forbes reports it from several 

 localities in Illinois and Wisconsin and from Portage La Prairie, 

 Manitoba. Marsh has found it in several of the Michigan lakes 

 and Cragin reports it from Cambridge, Mass., as Cyclops per armatus. 

 Miss Byrnes has studied the species on Long Island, where she found 

 it in "shallow, fresh-water ponds." I have noted it rather more 

 abundantly in the spring collections, but never in great numbers from 

 the vicinity of Haverford, Pa., and from a small spring-Avater pond 

 near Gillette, Wyoming, as well as in collections from Lake Winne- 

 pesaukee and the vicinity of Cambridge, Mass. 



Subgenus PARACYCLOPS Claus. 



Cyclops fimbriatus var. poppei Rehberg. PI. IV, figs. 5-11. 



Cyclops poppei Rehberg, '80, p. 550, Taf. VI, figs. 9-11. 



Cyclops fimbriatus Schmeil, '91, pp. 35, 36. 



Cyclops iimbriatus var. poppei Schmeil, '92, pp. 168-170, Taf. VII, figs. 14-16. 



Cyclops' fimbriatus Herrick, '95, pp. 121, 122, pi. XVII, figs. 8, 9; pi. XXI, 



fig. 11; pi. XXV, figs. 9-14. 

 Cyclops fimbriatus var. poppei Forbes, '97, pp. 63 and 65. 

 Cyclops fimbriatus Bj^nes, '09, p. 33, pi. XV. 



Synonymy and Distribution. — In his Beitrdge zur Kenntniss, etc., 

 of '91, Schmeil considered Cijclops poppei Rehberg, synonymous 

 with the typical C. fimbriatus. The following year, however, after 

 a more careful study of the species, though he still claimed the 

 differences to be too few to warrant a new species, he granted that 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



there should be a variety of C. fimhriatus, which he named C. fimhriatus 

 var. jJoppei Rehberg. 



All of Herrick's drawings of the stylets of what he describes as 

 C fimhriatus Fischer show that his specimens belonged to the var. 

 poppei, and not to the typical form. Forbes recognizes the varietj' 

 poppei, but gives no description or figures in connection with his 

 note of the occurrence of the species. Miss Byrnes, following 

 Herrick's mistake, has described this variety as the typical C. fim- 

 hriatus from Long Island. Her fig. 5, pi. XV, of the stylets with 

 their characteristic armature of a longitudinal row of spines proves 

 that the animal examined by her was not fimhriatus, but the variety 

 poppei of Rehberg. There has been not a little confusion of the 

 above-mentioned two forms. I cannot find a single description of 

 the typical C. fimhriatus Fischer by any American investigator. 

 The species seems to be represented in this country by the variety 

 only. This has been described at least twice under the name of the 

 type form. 



Cyclops fimhriatus var. poppei seems to be one of the rarer species 

 of. the genus. Several of the investigators have failed to find it. 

 Kofoid states in his Plankton of the Illinois River, "K. B. Forbes 

 ('97) records in May, September, 1896, C. varicans Sars as common, 

 and C. fimhriatus var. poppei Rehberg and C. bicolor Sars as rare." 

 Forbes states that this is "a rare species in Manitoba, Alabama, 

 and the north central States. " Brewer does not record it from the 

 waters about Lincoln, Nebraska. Marsh, in '95, names "fimhriatus'' 

 in his Key to Species of Cyclops, but gives no description. Miss 

 Byrnes has studied the species from Long Island waters, where she 

 states that "Cyclops fimhriatus has been taken in great numbers — 

 especially in the collections made in the early spring." This obser- 

 vation agrees very closely with my own regarding the variety poppei 

 in this vicinity. In a collection made in the spring (March) of 1907 

 it was the most abundant form. I have never recorded it from 

 September to January, In February, 1909, I found a few egg-bearing 

 females. I consider it one of the rarest of the members of the genus 

 found in this locality. 



Specific Description. — The somewhat slim cephalothorax (PI. IV, 

 fig. 5) tapers only slightly posteriorly. The first segment is half as 

 long as the entire thorax. The dorso-ventral diameter is short in 

 proportion to the length of the animal. In a specimen measuring 

 1.13 mm. it was but .14 mm. The width of the three posterior 

 thoracic segments diminishes but a little. The lateral angles of the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



thoracic segments are not prominent. Both Herrick and Miss 

 Byrnes have obviously dra^vn their specimens under pressure, when, 

 as I have repeatedly observed, the thoracic outline is entirely changed. 

 Fig. 5, PI. IV, shows the form of cephalothorax in life. The third 

 segment is finely serrated along its entire posterior margin (fig. 10, 

 Pi. IV). These serrations often are slightly larger at the end of the 

 marginal row. The fourth thoracic segment bears, laterally, a short 

 row of minute but rather coarse "hairs" (fig. 11, PI. IV). On the 

 corresponding portions of the fifth segment there are present similar 

 short rows of coarse hairs, but on this segment they are much larger 

 (fig. 8, PI. IV). The entire cephalothorax is to the abdomen as 7 : 5. 

 Its length to its width is as 2 : 1. 



The abdomen is wide, the first segment being but a little narrower 

 than the fifth segment of the thorax. In my drawing of the living 

 animal (fig. 5, PL IV) the first abdominal segment is foreshortened 

 owing to the curve of the entire dorsal surface. This fact, taken 

 together with the short first antennae and the method of locomotion, 

 suggests a strong resemblance to members of the genus Caniho- 

 camptus. The first three abdominal segments are finely serrate on 

 their posterior margins. These serrations in the fourth segment, 

 instead of stopping at the sides of the anal opening, turn anteriorly 

 and extend a short distance along either side of this opening. There 

 are, furthermore, between the upturned portion of the posterior row 

 of serrations and the side of the anal opening, two very minute rows 

 of what Schmeil calls "button-like projections" (fig. 6, PI. IV). 

 Neither Herrick's nor Miss Byrnes' drawings give an accurate view 

 of this armature, though the former evidently noticed this detail 

 from his fig. 11, PI. 21, of his report of '95. Miss Byrnes' drawing 

 shows the marginal row of serrations of the fourth abdominal segment 

 extending across the anal opening. All the abdominal segments 

 bear transverse rows of minute indentations of the form of the 

 marginal serrations, but not projections of the cuticula. This may 

 easily be proved by turning the animal on its side, when the dorsal 

 and ventral lines of the abdominal segments will appear as unbroken 

 lines. I find this character quite constant in specimens of the 

 variety poppei, though Schmeil notes that it is often missing in the 

 type jimbriatus. 



The stylets (fig. 6, PI. IV) differ from those of the typical ^w6na^MS. 

 They are only as long as the last two abdominal segments. Their 

 length is three times their width and their inner margins almost meet 

 at the point of insertion in the abdomen. One of the main differences 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



between this form and the type lies in the characteristic armature 

 of the dorsal surface of the stylets. The lateral spine is inserted 

 well towards the median line. On the outer lateral surfaces and a 

 little below the position usually occupied by the lateral spine there 

 is a row of prominent serrations. The position and course of this 

 row of serrations may be seen in fig. 6 of PI. IV. There are two well- 

 developed apical setse which are carried prominently divaricate. Of 

 these two, the outer is a little over half as long as the inner aQ,d is 

 ornamented on its outer surface with minute spines, its inner surface 

 bearing the usual hairs. Herrick's statement, "inner two-thirds as 

 long as the outer," is undoubtedly another case of reversed propor- 

 tions. The longer seta is plumose. The delicate innermost setse 

 are as long as the outer and generally curved as in fig. 6, PI. IV. 

 The outermost setse are very heavy, rather blunt and delicately 

 plumose on their inner surface only. About the base of each there 

 is a f circle of long serrations. 



The first antennae of the female (fig. 7, PI. IV) are eight-jointed. 

 They are only half as long as the first thoracic segment and are 

 carried at right angles to the median line, as is the case with practically 

 all of the Cydopidce. The segments taper rapidly, the distal one 

 being but one-quarter as wide as the first at its line of juncture with 

 the second. The fourth segment is the longest. The two distal 

 segments are slightly bent forward in life (fig. 5, PI. IV). Herrick 

 states: "The basal joint with a small semicircular series of fine 

 bristles." This is not a characteristic of this species, but of the 

 entire genus. Miss Byrnes' description is this: "The antennae 

 contain but eight segments; they are short and are characterized 

 by two well-developed setae." The fifth segment bears a well- 

 developed sense-club (fig. 7, PI. IV). This is somewhat different 

 from Schmeil's figure of this organ for the type form. In the speci- 

 mens that I have examined I find it to be rather more slim and 

 spear-shaped than "club-shaped" as in the type. It suggests the 

 form of the corresponding organ in C. bicuspidatus Claus (PI. II, 

 fig. 5). Many of the setse of the first seven segments are delicately 

 plumose, but those of the terminal segment are, as far as I have been 

 able to observe, quite bare. Along the line of the distal third of the 

 third segment (fig. 7, PI. IV) I have repeatedly noted what appears 

 to be the beginning of the segmentation of another antennal joint. 

 However, I have never observed a specimen of "var. poppei'' with 

 nine-jointed first antennae. The semicircle of fine bristles at the 

 base of the first joint is unusually prominent. 




1914.] NATURAL ttClKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



The antcnnules are characterized by the two very short terminal 

 segments. 

 . The armature of the three-jointed swimming feet is as follows: 



First pair — outer i:Amus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setae. 

 Second pair — outer ramus, four spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, one spine, four setse. 

 Third pair — like the second pair. 

 Fourth pair — outer ramus, three spines, five setae; inner ramus, one 



seta, two spines, two setae. 



The inner margins of all the branches of the swimming feet are 

 ornamented with rows of bristles. This is especially the case in the 

 second, third, and fourth pairs. In her description of the variations 

 of this species, Miss BjTnes says: " The most striking variation iir 

 C. fimhriatus is a tendencj^ toward a reduction in the armature of 

 the inner ramus of the first swimming feet, where in the apical 

 position, for example, a single large spine replaced two setae or a 

 spine and a seta, which is the typical armature of the organ." She 

 does not give the ''typical armature" in her table, and the small seta 

 on the inner side of the inner ramus of the first pair of swimming 

 feet she has probably overlooked. 



The fifth foot (fig. 8, PI. IV), which is one-jointed, I find bearing 

 the following armature: On the inner side of the distal end of the 

 single segment there is a heavy spine, serrate on its inner surface 

 and finely but not densely plumose on its outer margin. The row of 

 minute serrations which Schmeil shows to be present in the type 

 form at the base of the corresponding spine (see his Taf. VII, fig. 12) 

 I do not find at all after a careful examination of a number of speci- 

 mens. There is a single spine-like projection at the base of the 

 inner spine, but no indication of a row. On the outer distal corner 

 of the fifth foot there is a very coarse spine-like seta that is densely 

 plumose on its inner and outer side. These two "spines" (the 

 outer is more nearly a spine than a seta) are of equal length. Between 

 them and borne at the end of a button-like process is the middle 

 seta, slightly longer than the two spines and plumose on its distal 

 half. Rehberg noted that "das rudimentare Fiisschen ist mit zwei 

 gleichlangen Dornen und einem kiirzeren Haar Isesetzt, wahrend 

 sich bei Cycl. fimhriatus nur ein kurzer Dorn und zwei lange Haareii 

 befinden." Schmeil admits that Rehberg's description and drawing 

 is quite accurate, states, however, that the fifth feet in type and 

 variety are identical. I am inclined to agree with Rehberg that 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the outer seta of the type form is replaced in his variety by a spine. 

 There has been much confusion over this point. Herrick states 

 that the fifth foot has ''three spines." Miss Byrnes agrees in her 

 -description with Schmeil, for she finds "a coarse inner spine and two 

 setae." This is undoubtedly one of those details of structure which 

 may vary considerably, and I merely give the observations of the 

 investigators to show their opinions on this point. 



The receptaculum seminis (fig. 4, PL IV) is of a very characteristic 

 form. It consists of two portions. These are in the shape of long, 

 closely lying narrow ellipses. The upper portion has a slight inden- 

 tation in the middle of its anterior margin and the ends are slightly 

 upturned. The porus is situated in the middle of the short common 

 portion which connects the two divisions of this organ. The struc- 

 ture of the receptaculum seminis has never before been observed in 

 the American representatives of this variety. The egg-sacs contain 

 but a few dark ovae, 7-10, and are carried close to the abdomen in 

 life. 



I have found that 1.17 mm. is an average length for females of the 

 variety poppei. Schmeil gives .86 mm. and Herrick .8 mm. The 

 former states that "die Varietat ist etwas kleiner als die typische 

 Form." For the "typische Form" Schmeil gives for the female 

 "0.92-1 mm." The smallest mature female that I have measured 

 was 1.13 mm. long — longer than the typical European form. 

 Schmeil's observations on the size of this species does not seem to 

 hold good, then, for the American forms. In fact, the reverse is 

 true of specimens from this vicinity. Further study of the species 

 will undoubtedly show that type and variety are of a size. 



The variety poppei is practically colorless. Irregular chains 

 (fig. 5, PI. IV) of rose-colored globules are scattered occasionally 

 throughout both cephalothorax and abdomen, and the ovaries, when 

 distended, appear a deep shade of lavender. 



The most readily distinguished characters of this variety are the 

 short eight-jointed antennae (which show that it belongs either to the 

 type or variety) and the very characteristic armature of the dorsal 

 surfaces of the caudal stylets. 



The following table illustrates the main points of difference between 

 type and variety: 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



(1) Fifth foot 



C. fimbriatus Fischer. 



C. fimbriatus var. 

 poppci Rehberg. 



with a spine and two setae, 

 the spine circled at its 

 base by a row of minute 

 spinules. 



(2) Receptaculum semi- "may reach the anterior 

 nis border of first abdominal 



segment" (Schmeil). 



with two spines and a seta, 

 one spine phimose, and 

 no row of spinules at the 

 base of either. 



narrow, low lying, ellipse 

 (fig. 9, PI. IV), with 

 slight indentation in mid- 

 dle of anterior border. 



(3) Fourth a b d o m i n a 1 serrations stop at side ofiserrations turn up (fig. 6, 



segment 



(4) Transverse row of 



serrations on sty- 

 lets 



(5) Stylets 



anal opening. 



Pi. IV). 



form semicircle about sty- extend longitudinally (fig 



lets stopping above lat- 

 eral spine. 



narrow, set far apart, 

 almost equal to last three 

 abdominal segments. 



6, PI. IV). 



shorter, inner margins 

 almost meet, length 

 equal to last two abdomi- 

 nal segments. 



Schmeil notes further minute differences in the structure of the 

 male first antennae. 



N. B. — Since the compilation of the above table I have had occasion to examine 

 collections from Lake Winnepesaukee, N. H., in which a form occurs which 

 bridges over the gap between type and variety as regards character No. 4. In 

 these forms the transverse row of serrations on stylets is exactly as in the type 

 form as figured by Schmeil, but the proportional length of stylets agrees with var. 

 poppei and not with the type form. 



List of Cyclopid.e Recorded from a Single Small Pond in the 



Vicinity of Haverford, Pa. 



(The above small pond is on the estate of Mr. McFadden, directly 

 on the south side of the Philadelphia and Western Railroad tracks 

 and to the right of the bridge that crosses these tracks at Haver- 

 ford station.) 



Geniia CYCLOPS. 

 I. Subgenus CYCLOPS Glaus s. str. 

 1. Cyclops Viridis var. insectus Forbes. 



Not described in this paper, but an abundant form. 

 "2. Cyclops bicuspidatus Claus. 



II. Subgenus MACROGYCLOPS Claus. 



3. Cyclops fuSCUS Jurinc. 



'4. Cyclops albidus Jurine. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^. 



IV. Subgenus ORTHOCYCLOPS Forbes. 



5. Cyclops modestus Herrick. 



V. Subgenus MICROCYCLOPS Glaus. 



6. Cyclops varicans Sars. 



VI. Subgenus EUCYCLOPS Glaus. 



7. Cyclops serrulatus Fischer. _ 



Not described in this paper, but the most abundant form. 



8. Cyclops prasinus Fischer. 



VII. Subgenus PARAGYCLOPS Glaus. 



9. Cyclops phaleratus Koch. 



10. Cyclops fimbriatus var. poppei Rehberg. 



In the above Kst, subgenus III is omitted since it only contains 

 C. ater Herrick, a form not found thus far in this locality. This 

 arrangement is taken directly from Forbes' paper of '97. 



Description of C. viridis var. insectus Forbes and C. serrulatus 

 Fischer are not given in this paper. The latter form is perhaps the 

 commonest one of the genus and will not be mistaken for any other 

 since no other American form approaches it in morphological details. 

 Forbes has discussed the synonymy in his paper of '97, but since 

 that time several European investigators have established new 

 species and varieties all intimately related with the type form. A 

 careful comparative study of these new forms will be necessary before 

 the description of C. serrulatus Fischer can be brought up to date. 

 It is known to be a most variable form. Size and stylet proportions 

 are rarely constant in individuals taken at the same locality' and 

 even in the same collection. 



Bibliography. 



Brewer, A. D. '98. A Study of the Copepoda found in the Vicinity of Lin- 

 coln, Nebraska. Studies from the Zool. Lab. of the University of Nebraska, 

 Lincoln, Nebraska, No. 29, Article XIII, pp. 119-138, pi. VII. 



Byrnes, E. F. '03. Heterogeny and Variation in some of the Copepoda of 

 Long Island. Reprinted from the Biol. Bulletin, Vol. V, no. 3, August, '03. 

 pp. 152-168, 5 figs. 



'06. Two Transitional Stages in the Development of Cyclops signnlus var. 



coronatus. Reprinted from Biol. Bulletin, Vol. X, no. 5, April, '06. 



'09. The Fresh Water Cyclops of Long Island, Cold Spring Harbor Mono- 

 graphs, No. VII, March, '09. Pub. by the Brooklyn Inst, of Arts and 

 Sciences. Fifteen plates, 43 pp. 



Chichkoff, G. '06. Copepodes d'eau douce do Bulgarie, Zool. Anzeig., Band 

 31, pp. 78-82. 



Claus, C. '63. Die freilebenden Copepoden, mit besonderer Berlicksichtigung 

 der Fauna Deutschlands, der Nordsee und des Mittelmeeres. 230 pj)., 

 37 pis. Leipzig. 



Cragin, F. W. '83. A Contribution to the History of the Fresh-water Copepoda. 

 Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., Vol. VlII, pp. 06-80, pis. I-I\'. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Daday, E. v. '97. Resultate dcr wissenschaftlichen Erforschung des Bala- 

 tonsees. IX Section — Crustaceen, 31 pp., 40 drawings. Budapest, '97. 



'03. Mikroskopisehe Siis-swasserthiere aus der Umgebung des Balaton. 



Zool. Jahrbiich., Abt. f. Syst. etc., vol. XIX, Heft I. 



'06. Untersuchungen liber die Copepoden-fauna von Hinterindien, Sumatra 



und Java, nebst einem Beitrag zur Copepodenkenntnis der Hawaii-Inseln. 

 Pp. 175-20(5. 3 Taf., Zool. .Jahrbiich., .\bt. f. Syst. etc., Bd. 24, Heft 3. Jena. 



DouwE, C. V. '99. Zur Morphologie des rudimentaren Copepoden-fusses. 



Zool. Anzeig., Bd. 22, pp. 447-450. 

 '03. Zur Kenntnis der freilebenden Siisswasser Copepoden Deufschknds 



— Cyclops crassicaudis Sars. Zool. Anzeig., Bd. 26, pp. 463-465. 

 '07. Zur Copepodenfauna von Java und Sumatra. Zool. Anzeig., Bd. 32, 



pp. 357-364. 

 Forbes, E. B. '97- A Contribution to a Knowledge of North American Fresh- 

 water Cvclopida?. 111. State Lab. of Nat. Hist., Vol. V, Article II, pp. 27-82, 



pis. VIII-XX. 

 Forbes, S. A. '82. On some Entomostraca of Lake Michigan and Adjacent 



Waters. Amer. Nat., vol. XVI, pp. 537-543, 640-6,50, pis. VIII, IX. 

 Herrick, C. L. '83. Heterogenesis in Copepod Crustacea. Am. Nat., Vol. 



XVII, pp. 208-212. 



'83rt. Heterogenctic Development in Diaptomus. Am. Nat., Vol. XVII, 



pp. 381-389, 499-505, pis. V-VII. 



Herrick, C. L., and Turner, C. H. '95. Synopsis of the Entomostraca of 



Minnesota. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. Minn., Zool., Series II, 525 pp. 



81 plates. 

 KoFOiD, C. A. '08. The Plankton of the Illinois River, Part II. Constituent 



Organisms and their Seasonal Distribution. Bull. 111. State Lab. of Nat. 



Hist., Vol. VIII, art. 1. 

 Lehmann, H. '03. Variations in Form and Size of Cyclops brevispinosus 



Herrick and Cyclops americanus Marsh. Trans. Wise. Acad, of Sci. Arts 



and Letters, Vol. XIV, part I, pp. 279-298, pis. XXX-XXXIII. 

 LiLLJEBORG, W. '01. Synopsis Specierum hue usque in Suecia Observatorum 



Generis Cyclopis, sive Bidrag Till en Ofversigt af de Inom Sverige lakttagna 



Arterna af Slaktet Cyclops. 118 pp., VI Tab. Stockholm, '01. 

 Marsh, C. D. '95. On the Cyclopidse and Calanidas of Lake St. Clair, Lake 



^Michigan and Certain of the Inland Lakes of Michigan. Bulletin of the 



Michigan Fish Commission, No. 5, 24 pp., 9 plates. 

 '03. The Plankton of Lake Winnebago and Green Lake. Wise. Geol. and 



Nat. Hist. Survey, Bull. No. XII, Series No. 3. 

 Randolph, H. '00. Chloretone .... an Anaesthetic and Macerating Agent 



for Lower Animals. Reprinted from Zool. Anzeig., Bd. XXIII, No. 621. 

 Rathbun, M. J. '05. Fauna of New England, 5. List of Crustacea. Occa- 

 sional Papers of the Boston Society of Natural History, VII. Boston. 

 S.w. T. '18. An Account of the Crustacea of the United States. Journ. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. of Phila., Vol. I, pp. 421-458. 

 "ScHMEiL, O. '91. Beitriige zur Kenntnis der Siisswasser Copepoden Deutsch- 



lands, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der Cj'clopiden. Zeitschr. f. Natur- 



wiss., Halle, Bd. 64, pp. 1-40. 



'92. Deutschlands freilebende §iisswasser-Copepoden. I.Teil. Cyclopidse. 



Bibliotheca Zoologica, Heft II, 191 pp., 8 Tafeln. 



'93. Copepoden •des Rhatikon-Gebirges, 40 pp., 4 pis. Abhandl. d. Naturf. 



Ges. zu Halle, Bd. XIX. 



Walker, E. R. '08. Observations on the Microfauna of an Oregon Pond. 

 Transactions of Amer. Microsc. Soc, Vol. XXVIII, pp. 76-84, pi. VI. 



Explanation of Plates. 



Plate I. — Cyclops fuscus Jurine. Cyclops albidus Jurine. 



Fig. 1. — C. fuscus, adult female. Oc. 2, obj. 1. (Ocular and objective 

 numbers refer to Leitz lenses unless otherwise noted. All drawings were 

 made with the help of the camera lucida.) 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



Fig. 2. — C. albidus, adult female, showing the characteristic divaricate- 

 position of the egg-sacs. Oc. 1, obj. 1 (Bausch & Lomb). 

 Fig. 3. — Dorsal aspect of stylets and last abdominal segment of C. fuscuii. 



Oc. 3, obj. 3. , * 



Fig. 4. — Stylets and last abdominal segment of C. albidus. Oc. 1, obj. 3 



(B. & L.). 

 Fig. 5. — Three proximal joints of the second female antenna, C. fuscua. 



Oc. 2, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 6. — Third and fourth joints of the second female antenna, C. albidua. 



Oc. 1, obj. 3 (B. & L.). 

 Fig. 7. — Terminal segment of first female antenna, C. fuscus, showing the 



typical deep serrations of the hyaline plate. Oc. 2, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 8. — Terminal segment of first female antenna, C. albidus. The finely 



serrated plate is characteristic. Oc. 3, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 9. — Twelfth segment of the first female antenna of C. fuscus, showing 



the armature of minute serrations and the sense-hair. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 10. — Twelfth segment of the first antenna of a female C. albidus, showing 



rows of "thorns" and sense-club. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 11. — Receptaculwm seminis of C. fuscus. Oc. 3, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 12. — Receptaculum seminis of C. albidus. Oc. 3, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 13.— Fifth foot of C. albidus. Oc. 2, obj. 5. - 



Fig. 14. — Distal segment of the inner ramus of the fourth pair of swimming 



feet of C. albidus, showing a group of small hairs in place of the second seta 



of the inner side. Oc. 0, obj. 5. 



Plate II. — Figs. 1-5, Cyclops bicuspidatus Claus. Figs. 6-11 Cyclops modestus,. 



Herrick. 

 Fig. 1. — An adult female (slightly extended by pressure). Oc. 0, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 2. — Lateral view of a stylet showing the minute serrations near the- 



anterior end. Oc. 3, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 3. — The sense-club of the twelfth segment of the first female antenna^. 



Oc. 3, obj. 7. 

 Fig. 4. — A foot of the fifth pair. Oc. 3, obj. 7. 

 Fig. 5. — The receptaculum seminis. Oc. 3, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 6. — An adult female. Oc. 0, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 7. — An adult male with first antennae folded under the cephalothorax. 



Oc. 0, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 8. — Stylets and last abdominal segment. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 9.— A foot of the fifth pair. Oc. 1 (B. & L.), obj. 7. 

 Fig. 10. — Lamella of the third pair of swimming feet. Oc. 1 (B. & L.),. 



obj. 5. ■ 



Fig. 11. — The three terminal joints of the first female antennae showing 



hyaline plates and sense-hair. Oc. 1 (B. & L.), obj. 5. 



Plate III. — Figs. 1-5, Cyclops prasinus Fischer. Figs. 6-11, Cyclops varicans: 



Sars. 

 Fig. 1. — An adult female. Oc. 2, obj. 3. 



Fig. 2. — The stylets and last abdominal segment. Oc. 3, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 3. — The three terminal joints of the female first antenna showing the 



characteristic hyaline plates. Oc. 2, obj. 7. 

 Fig. 4.— The fifth foot. Oc. 2, obj. 7. 

 Fig. 5. — The receplaculum seminis. Oc. 3, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 6. — A mature female of C. varicans with eleven-jointed first antenna? :; 



a winter transitional form. Oc. 2, obj. 3. 

 Fig. 7. — The stylets and last abdominal segment. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 8. — An eleven-jointed antenna of the first pair in the female. Oc. 3,. 



obj. 5. 

 Fig. 9. — The fifth thoracic segment showing the rudimentary fifth feet.. 



Oc. .3, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 10. — The receptaculum seminis. Oc. 0, obj. 5. 

 Fig. 11. — A two-jointed swimming foot of the third pair. The division 



of the third joint is always inilicated by minute rows of hairs. Oc. 2, 



obi. 5. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Plate IV. — Figs. 1-4, Cyclops phdlcralus Koch. Figs. 5-11, Cyclops fimbrialus 

 var. poppei Rehberg. 



Fig. 1. — An adult female. Oc. 0, obj. 3. 



Fig. 2. — The stylets and last abdominal segment. Oc. 0, obj. 5. 



Fig. 3. — The female first antenna. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 



Fig. 4.— The fifth foot. Oc. 2, obj. 5. 



Fig. 5. — An adult female; the first ccphalothoracic segment appears some- 

 what foreshortened. 



Fig. 6. — The stylets and last abdominal segment. 



Fig. 7. — The female first antenna. 



Fig. 8. — A foot of the fifth pair. 



Fig. 9. — The receptaculum seminis. 



Fig. 10. — Posterior serrated margin of the third thoracic segment. 



Fig. 11. — Posterior margin of the fourth thoracic segment. 




«64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



A STUDY OF THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS DICHOPETALA (ORTHOPTERA: 



TETTIGONIID^). 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The possession of the extensive series of this genus secured by us 

 in the southwestern' United States in the summers of 1910 and 1912, 

 with the acquisition by the junior author of the very important 

 representation of the same group contained in the Bruner Collec- 

 tion, prompted us to make a detailed study of this interesting but 

 previously little-known genus of long-horned grasshoppers. The 

 scope of our work became so extended that practically all the material 

 of the geniis in American collections was finally examined. The 

 few types contained in European collections were relatively unimpor- 

 tant. Our work has required the description of a number of new 

 forms and the synonymizing of several old ones. 



The color descriptions have been based on Ridgway's recent set 

 of color standards.^ 



DICHOPETALA Bruimer. 



1878. Dichopetala Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 77. 



1891. Dichopetala Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell., Wien, 



XLI, p. 4. 



1897. Dichopetala Saussure and Pictet, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 315. 



1900. Dichopetala Scudder, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., VIII, p. 67. 



1900. Dichopetala Hehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, p. 88. 



1901. Dichopetala Rehn, Entom. News, XII, p. 207. 



1902. Dichopetala Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, p. 335. 

 1902. Dic/iopf-tato Scudder and Cockcrell, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 51. 

 1902. Dichopetala Morse, Psyche, IX, p. 381. 



1906. Dichopetala Kirby, Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 388. 



1907. Dichopetala Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 56. 

 1909. Dichopetala Rehn and Hebard, ibid., 1909, p. 167. 



1912. Dichopetala Hunter, Pratt and Mitchell, Bull. 113, Bureau of Entom. 

 U. S. Dept. of Agric, p. 50. 



This genus was based on two species — inexicana and eniarginata 

 Brunner. 



Genotype: Dichopetala mexicana Brunner (selected by Kirby, 

 1906). 



The genus is a member of the Phaneropterinse and of the group 

 Odonturge, constituting with the genera Odontura Rambur, Pseudi- 

 sotima Schulthess, Epiphlebus Karsch, Atlasacris Rehn, Peropyrrhicia 



' Color Standards and Color Nomenclature. By Robert Ridgway. Wash- 

 ington, D. C, 1912. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



and Angara Bruiiner a section of the group. Of these genera all are 

 exchisively Old World except Angara, which is Brazilian. 



Generic Description. — Fastigium of vertex more or less'compressed, 

 short, not or distinctly sublamellate, not at all sulcate or finely 

 sulcate proximad, more or less in contact with facial fastigium. 

 Antennae subcrassate proximad, from two to five times the length 

 of the body. Pronotum not at all, or more or less constricted mesad, 

 dorsum more or less arcuate in transverse section; caudal margins 

 of lateral lobes more or less arcuate or subtruncate. Tegmina in 

 male abbreviate; anal field extending nearly the entire length of 

 tegmen; sutural margin at apex of stridulating vein obtuse-angulate 

 to rectangulate produced. Tegmina in female very short, not 

 reaching or distinctly surpassing the caudal margin of the metanotum, 

 overlapping, subcontiguous, or more or less decidedly remote from 

 one another; distal margin of female tegmina arcuate to truncate. 

 Abdomen more or less dilated; disto-dorsal abdominal segment 

 with distal margin emarginate, bisinuate, truncate or arcuate, supra- 

 anal plate simple or (in d^ of tauriformis) bearing a dorsal erect 

 T-shaped structure. Cerci of male incurved, acute, falciform, 

 simple, with dorsal margin rarely serrato-dentate or with median 

 tooth or lobe on dorsal or external face, occasionally with an accessory 

 digitiform lobe from base. Subgenital plate of male broad and short 

 or produced, more or less narrowed cUstad, free lateral margins 

 concave, subparallel or converging, distal margin truncate or more 

 or less deeply and completely V- or obomegoid emarginate, unicari- 

 nate or tricarinate ventrad. Ovipositor from one and one-half to 

 three times the length of pronotal disk, more or less arcuate, apex 

 more or less acuminate and with its margins serrato-dentate. Sub- 

 genital plate of female emarginato-truncate, arcuato-emarginate, or 

 more or less completely divided into two halves, these more or "less 

 acute distad. Limbs more or less-elongate. Cephalic femora from one 

 and one-half to three times as long as the disk of the pronotum in 

 the male, one and one-third to two and one-half times in the female. 

 Caudal femora -from four to nearly seven times the lengih of the 

 pronotal disk in the male, from four to five and three-fourths times 

 in the female. 



Classification. — From a systematic standpoint, the characters of 

 greatest value in the differentiation of the species are: in both sexes, 

 general form of the body and shape of the eyes; in the male, form of 

 the pronotum, form of the tegmina, form of the cerci and subgenital 

 plate; in the female, form of the pronotum, form of the tegmina, 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



relative size and width of space between the tegmina, 'form of the 

 ovipositor and that of the subgenital plate. The general form is 

 much more robust in some species than in others, the females almost 

 always more robust than the males, in falcata and poUicifera less 

 different in this respect than in the other forms. The outline of the 

 eye is, in a few cases, of assistance in distinguishing females of closely 

 allied forms, as castanea and brevihastata. The pronotum ranges 

 from not at all constricted, to decidedly constricted mesad in both 

 sexes. In the male sex the tegmina show modifications in the form 

 of the margins and the width of the fields, the prominence of the 

 stridulating vein and the projection of the sutural margin at the apex 

 of the same vein. The tegmina of the female are as diagnostic as 

 the more complex appendages of the male, their relative position and 

 the interspace between the same, as well as the form of their margins, 

 being of importance. The characters of the genitalia of the two sexes 

 are discussed in detail below. 



Morphological Notes on Male Genitalia. — The variation in struc- 

 tural form in the cerci of the male covers a number of types which 

 show six different lines of development, relatively as follows: 



(mexicana 

 falcata 



durangensis 



D 



{castanea 

 brevihastata 



( gladiator 

 { emarginata 



(oreoeca 

 catinata 



F- 



( caudelli 



\ 



tridactyla 



E — taurijormis 



C — poUicifera 



B — serrifera 



The position of durangensis is more or less problematical, as we have 

 only nymi)hal males. 




Group D 



1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



The extremes in structural variation in the form of the cerci are a 

 simple incurved falciform type, found in the group A, and one with 

 a median tooth and an accessory lobe from the base, found in group 

 F. The general cereal structure of the various groups can be pre- 

 sented best in tabular form. 



[ mexicana 1 

 Group A j falcata I ^ii^^P^G) falciform. 



Group B (serrifera). — Simple, dorsal margin serrato-dentate. 



Group C {polUcifera). — With an external median tooth. 



Incertse sedis (diirangensis) . — With evidence of a dorsal median 



tooth. 



[ castanea ; 



brevihastata With a dorsal median fork, developing 



gladiator from a simple tooth to a large flattened 



emarginata | lobe covering the greater portion of the 



oreoeca distal section of the cereal shaft. 



catinata 



Group E {fauriformis) . — With a greatly developed lobiform median 

 tooth arising from the external margin of the shaft, the distal portion 

 of the latter peculiarly modified. A transverse proximal lamella 

 present dorsad on the shaft. 



I tridactyla 1 With a dorsal median tooth and an accessory 

 Group F I caMdelli J digitiform lobe from the base of the shaft. 



The species in group D exhibit a regular development in the form 

 of the dorsal median fork from a simple median tooth which becomes 

 depressed and flattened, spreading laterad until it is as wide as the 

 proximal portion of the shaft, to the other extreme which has it 

 modified into a great inverted spoon-like plate covering the greater 

 portion of the cereal shaft. The peculiar digitiform accessory 

 appendage of tridactyla and caudelli springs from a proximal trans- 

 verse ridge, which is apparently homologous with the more decided 

 transverse lamella found in the same region in tauriformis. 



From the evidence of eighteen immature males, 'belonging to six 

 species {durangensis, brevihastata, gladiator, oreoeca, catinata, and 

 polUcifera), it is evident that the separation of the median fork of 

 the cercus is never accomplished before the mature condition. Of 

 brevihastata and polUcifera we have material representing two con- 

 secutive instars, one preceding the mature condition, the other 

 species being represented by this stage alone. In the forms of 

 which we have two stages no indication of the lobe is apparent in 




68 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the earlier instar, while in the other stage, in all of the species repre- 

 sented in this condition, there is a more or less distinct indication of 

 an incipient lobe or tooth, this being most pronounced in durangensis 

 and catinata. In the latter this embryonic lol)e is more definitely 

 formed than in durangensis, consisting of an ovate vertical area of 

 relatively large size. In the closely related oreoeca, the incipient lobe 

 is not vertical, but horizontal in position. 



The male subgenital plate is very varied in form, the distal margin 

 ranging from truncate with lateral styliform processes to obomegoid 

 emarginate; the general form broad with the distal portion little 

 produced and narrowed, the lateral angles more or less blunted, to 

 an opposite jextreme, elongate, narrow, concave laterad with the 

 lateral angles acute, between which extremes are a number of modifi- 

 cations of one or the other. Quite curiously, there exists no correla- 

 tion between certain forms of cerci and certain forms of the subgenital 

 plate, forms nearly related in cereal structure, as oreoeca and catinata, 

 having very different subgenital plates. 



Morphological Notes on Female Genitalia. — The ovipositor ranges 

 in general form from the elongate, very slender, decidedly arcuate 

 type seen in gladiator, and the elongate robust type with a more or 

 less straight ventral margin as found in a number of species, to a 

 short, moderately arcuate form seen in castanea and hrevihastata. 

 It is evident that there is considerable individual variation in the 

 depth of the ovipositor, this being very apparent in those species 

 represented by considerable series, so much so that the extremes have 

 different facies, but the major portions of such series always bridge 

 the apparent gaps. In ovipositor length there is marked variation 

 in gladiator and hrevihastata, this being most apparent in the former 

 species, the extremes of which are quite different in appearance. 

 We have before us ten female nymphs which we can positively refer 

 to five species {durangensis, hrevihastata, gladiator, oreoeca, and j)olli- 

 cifera). Of durangensis we have represented the second instar 

 preceding maturity, of hrevihastata the two preceding maturity, and 

 of the other three species the instar preceding maturity. From this 

 material it is evident that the development of the ovipositor is very 

 rapid, but in no case do the external margins acquire distal teeth until 

 the mature condition is reached. In one specimen which is appar- 

 ently on the eve of the last ecdysis (the type of Icevis) the teeth of 

 the enclosed ovipositor can be seen through the sheath when it is 

 held to the light. 



The subgenital plate of the female presents great diversity in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



development, which in its details are not always correlative with 

 apparent affinities. These diversities can be placed in two categories, 

 one {mexicana, falcata, durangensis, castanea, and brevihastata) with 

 the plate entire, the other (comprising the remaining species) with it 

 divided completely in two, at least as far as the chitinous portion is 

 concerned. In the first section we have from an extreme which is 

 very broad and short, with the distal margin emarginato-truncate, 

 to one of a similar general form with the margin bisinuate to arcuato- 

 emarginate. In the second section we have even greater diversity, 

 the paired lobes varying from broad to very narrow, blunted to 

 aciculate, the general form of the margins differing to a lesser degree. 

 In the forms with an entire subgenital plate, the distal margin has a 

 different appearance when the plate is flat or when it is compressed, 

 which factor should always be considered in determining the character 

 of this margin. For the sake of uniformity, we have endeavored to 

 give the character of this margin from the plate were it flattened out. 



Notes on Tegminal Structure. — In the male the tegmina are more 

 ample in oreoeca and more reduced in size in tridactyla than in the 

 other species. The angle of the sutural margin is very greatly pro- 

 duced in tridactyla and on the other hand almost imperceptible 

 in catinata. The stridulating vein is apparent in all the forms 

 of the genus, but variable in strength and curvature, while the 

 tympanum is also of variable form and definition. In the female 

 the considerable variation in form and position indicated in the 

 generic description is not correlated mth the general relationship 

 of the forms, as certain species with overlapping quadrate tegmina 

 and others with nearly contiguous similarly shaped tegmina occur 

 in sections of the genus which on «um total of characters are well 

 removed from one another. The reduction of the female tegmina 

 has proceeded further in emarginata than in any other form of the 

 genus, as there they are decidedly lateral and very small, while the 

 development of the tegmina in the same sex is most marked in falcata, 

 where they are overlapping, covering all of the metanotum and the 

 greater portion of the proximal dorsal abdominal segment. The 

 venation in the female tegmina is always generalized, being more 

 complex in falcata than in any of the other forms. 



Color Pattern. — The color pattern of all of the forms of this genus 

 is similar in several respects; first, in the possession of pale paired 

 lines extending from the eye caudad to the apex of the abdomen and, 

 second, in the general uniformity of the lateral and ventral color. 

 In the majority of the forms the color of the dorsum between the pale 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



lines is more or less uniform and, for convenience in describing the 

 extent and character of the pattern, we have referred to this as the 

 dorsal color, the ventral and lateral tones as the lateral color, and the 

 pale paired lines and their developments as the pale pattern. The 

 range of tone in all three of these principal components of the colora- 

 tion is very considerable, the extreme on one hand having the pattern 

 intense, the contrasts decided and the tones darker and richer, while 

 in the other extreme the pattern is dilute, the contrasts poor and the 

 tones paler and weaker. To facilitate reference to these extremes 

 we have termed them the intensive and recessive extremes. In the 

 recessive condition the pale pattern is frequently much restricted as 

 well as weakened, while the dorsal color is often but little, in part 

 only, or not at all different from the lateral color. 



Distribution. — Extending from north-central Texas (Dallas), 

 southern New Mexico (Dry Canyon and Mesilla Valley) and central 

 southern Arizona (Tumamoc Hill and Sycamore Canyon), south 

 to the upper Rio Balsas Valley in Guerrero, Mexico, on the west 

 reaching Tepic and on the east the vicinity of the coast at Corpus 

 Christi and Brownsville, Texas, and Tamos, Vera Cruz, Mexico. 

 Vertically the genus ranges up to at least 6500 feet (in the Davis 

 Mountains, Texas). It reaches its greatest diversity in southern 

 Texas and the northern and central parts of the Mexican tableland. 



History. — In 1878, Brunner^ erected the genus for two species then 

 described, viz., mexicana (from Mexico) and emarginata (from Texas). 

 In 1880, Bormans^ described a species from Schoa, Abyssinia, as 

 Dichopetala massaice, which has since been placed in the genus 

 Peropyrrhicia, which is exclusively African. Scudder, in 1900, 

 described^ a Dichopetala hrevicauda from California, which we now 

 know to be an Arethcea and not at all related to Dichopetala. In 

 1901, Rehn^ described a new form from Mexico as D. pidchra, basing 

 it on material which he had previously recorded as mexicana. Scud- 

 der, in 1902, in Scudder and Cockerell's list of New Mexican Orthop- 

 tera" described as new a species of the genus from New Mexico, 

 calling it Dichopetala hrevicauda, but as that name was preoccupied, 

 Morse, at Scudder's suggestion, renamed the species D. hrevihastata? 

 In 1907, Rehn described a species from Arizona as D. loBvis.^ 



2 Monogr. der Phancropt., p. 76. 



' Ann. Mus. Civ. Slor. Nat., Genova, XVI, p. 218, fig. 



■< Canad. Enlom., XXXII, p. 331. 



5 Enlom. News, XII, p. 207. ^ 



•"' Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 51. 



T Psyche, IX, p. 381. 



* Pitoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PniLA., 1907, p. 50. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Material. — In the preparation of the present paper the types of 

 the following species have been before us: 



(Dichopetala pulchra Rehn, synonym of D. mexicana Brunner.) 



Dichopetala falcata n. sp. 



Dichopetala serrifera n. sp. 



Dichopetala durangensis n. sp. 



Dichopetala pollicifera n. sp. 



Dichopetala tauriformis n. sp. 



Dichopetala castanea n. sp. 



Dichopetala hrevihastata Morse. 



{Dichopetala Icevis Rehn, synonym of D. hrevihastata Morse.) 



Dichopetala gladiator n. sp. 



Dichopetala orececa n. sp. 



Dichopetala catinata n. sp. 



Dichopetala tridactyla n. sp. 



Dichopetala caudelli n. sp. 



The entire series of the genus examined by us numbers 362 speci- 

 mens. The great majority of these (239) were taken by the authors 

 on recent trips and are located in the Hebard Collection and that 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Of the 

 remainder of the representation we have had before us, 37 specimens 

 were from the Hebard Collection ex Brunner; 27, comprising the 

 entire series of the genus in the United States National Museum, 

 were examined through the kindness of Mr. A. N. Caudell; 50, 

 forming the entire series in the Scudder Collection, were either 

 loaned or made accessible to us by Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the 

 INIuseum of Comparative Zoology, and a few specimens each were 

 loaned by the authorities of the Field Museum and the American 

 jNIuseum of Natural History. To the above-mentioned gentlemen 

 and the authorities of these museums we wish to express our hearty 

 thanks for their assistance in the work. We have, with their co- 

 operation, been able to examine almost all of the material in America 

 on which the records of the genus were based. Aside from the 

 typical material of the two original species of the genus, no recorded 

 specimens of the group exist in other collections. 



Key to the Species. 



Males. 



A. — Cercus subfalciform, non-furcate. 

 B. — Cercus non-serrate. 



C— Length of pronotum equal to one-third that of cephalic 



femur. Subgenital plate produced into lobes 



mexicana Brunner. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., , 



CC- — Length of pronotum equal to two-thirds that of cephalic 



femur. Subgenital plate not produced into lobes. 



falcata n. sp. 



BB.— Cercus with the dorsal margin serrate. (Subgenital plate 



broadly subtruncate with decided lateral substyliform 



appendages.) serrifera n. sp. 



AA. — Cercus with a median fork (either tooth or lobe) . (No access- 

 ory digitiform lobe from base of cercus.) 

 B. — Subgenital plate little produced. (Cercus with median tooth 



simple. Eyes ovate.) castanea n. sp. 



BB. — Subgenital plate distinctly produced meso-caudad. 



C. — Subgenital plate greatly produced. Cercus with the 

 tooth very long, as long as the remainder of the 



shaft, and needle-like distad tauriformis n. sp. 



CC. — Subgenital plate moderately produced. Cercus with 

 the tooth not as long as the d-emainder of the shaft 

 and not needle-like distad. 

 D.- — Cercus with the median tooth blunt and simple. 



(Eyes elliptical.) brevihastata Morse. 



DD. — Cercus with the median tooth depressed and 



lamellate. 



E. — Cercus with the median lobe (i.e., tooth) acute, 



not rounded when seen from the dorsum, 



placed on the external margin of the cercus. 



Pronotum little constricted mesad. General 



coloration green pollicifera n. sp. 



EE. — Cercus with the median lobe generally rounded 

 when seen from the dorsum, placed on the 

 dorsal face of the cercus. Pronotum mod- 

 erately constricted mesad. Coloration varie- 

 gated. 

 F. — Subgenital plate with the distal margin 

 weakly emarginate and the lateral angles 



blunted gladiator n. sp. 



FF. — Subgenital plate with the distal margin 

 decidedly emarginate and the lateral angles 



acute (variable in degree) 



(?) durangensis n. sp. 



G. — Median lobe of cercus decidedly shorter 



than the proximal half of the oercal 



shaft emarginata Brunner. 



GG. — Median lobe of cercus at least as long as 

 the proximal half of the cereal shaft, 

 spoon-like in shape and inverted over 

 the shaft. 

 H. — Margins of the cereal lobe converging 

 distad, apex hardly truncate, ven- 

 tral margin of the lobe decidedly 

 cingulate oreoeca n. sp. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7'S. 



HH. — Margins of the cereal lobe hardly 

 converging clistad, the apex sub- 

 truncate, ventral margin of the lobe- 

 weakly cingulate calinata n. sp. 



AAA. — Cercus with a dorsal median tooth and an accessory digiti- 

 form lobe attached at the dorsal base. 

 B. — Tegmina shorter than the pronotum, the portion of the 

 anal field of former distad of stridulating vein very 

 brief, sutural margin at apex of this vein decidedly 

 produced. Cercus with the median tooth proportion- 

 ately longer tridactyla n. sp. 



BB. — Tegmina longer than the pronotum, the portion of the anal 

 field of former distad of stridulating vein normal,, 

 sutural margin at apex of this vein slightly produced. 

 Cercus with the median tooth proportionately shorter, 



caudelli n. sp> 

 Females. 



A. — Ovipositor very decidedly longer than the head and pronotum 

 together.^ 

 B. — Tegmina slightly overlapping mesad. 



C. — Ovipositor hardly or not at all longer than half the 

 length of the caudal femora. Subgenital plate not 

 produced laterad into large trigonal lobes. 

 D. — Size large (body 21.5 mm., pronotum 6.9, ovipositor 



14.5). Ovipositor slenderer falcata n. sp. 



DD. — Size medium (body 15.5-18.2 mm., pronotum 

 4.1-^.3, ovipositor 10.2-10.5). Ovipositor more 



robust : durangensis n. sp. 



CC. — Ovipositor distinctly longer than half the length of the 

 caudal femora. Subgenital plate produced laterad 

 into large trigonal lobes. (Size medium; pronotum 



not sellate.) tauriformis n. sp. 



BB. — Tegmina not attingent or subattingent mesad. 



C. — ^Subgenital plate compressed, truncate, shallowly 

 arcuato-emarginate or biconvexo-emarginate distad. 



mexicana Brunner. 

 CC. — Subgenital plate with distal margin very profoundlj- 

 triangularly emarginate or broadly divided to the 

 base. 

 D. — Form slender, subcompressed. Pronotum narrow, 

 elongate (of the t\T)e usual in the genus). Limbs 

 and ovipositor proportionately longer than in 

 the opposite category. 

 E. — Subgenital plate with lateral apices very acute, 

 more or less spiniform. 



9 Occasional specimens of D. brevihastata , which belong to the opposite cate- 

 gory, have the ovipositor appreciably though not decidedly longer than the hearf 

 and pronotum. These specimens are exceptional and do not represent the- 

 average condition of the species. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



F. — Ovipositor with ventral margin nearly- 

 straight except at distal extremity. Teg- 



mina small emarginata Brunner. 



FF. — Ovipositor with ventral margin more {gladia- 

 tor) or less (oreoeca) arcuate. Tegmina 

 medium sized. 

 G. — Size large. Ovipositor slender. Limbs very 



elongate _ gladiator n. sp. 



GG. — Size medium. Ovipositor more robust. 



Limbs moderately elongate...orececan. sp. 



EE. — Subgenital plate with lateral portions trigonal, 



but apices blunted, non-spiniform. (Ventral 



margin of lateral lobes of pronotum distinctly 



sinuate. Eyes relatively prominent.) 



catinata n. sp. 

 DD. — Form compact and robust. Pronotum not elon- 

 gate, short. Limbs and ovipositor proportion- 

 ately shorter, the ovipositor robust. 

 E. — Ovipositor not quite half as long as the caudal 

 femora; subgenital plate with lobes rotundato- 



angulate tridactyla n. sp. 



EE. — Ovipositor equal to or slightly more than half 

 as long as the caudal femora; subgenital 



plate with lobes quite acute caudelli n. sp. 



AA. — Ovipositor slightly or not at all longer than the head and 

 pronotum together. 

 B. — Tegmina separated by nearlj^ or quite their own width. 



(Eyes elliptical.) hrevihastataM. orse. 



BB. — Tegmina separated by much less than their own width. 



C. — Form more robust. Ovipositor elongate, slender 



pollicifera n. sp. 

 CO.- — Form slenderer. Ovipositor quite robust, castanean. sp. 



Dichopetala mexicana Brunner. 



1878. D\ichopetala] mexicana Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 77, pi. I, 



fig. 6. [Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.] 

 1897. Dichopetala mexicana Saussure and Pictet, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 



I, p. 315. 



1900. Dichopetala mexicana Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, 

 p. 88. [Rio Cocula, Guerrero, Mexico.] 



1901. Dichopetala pulchra Rehn, Entom. News, XII, p. 207. [Rio Cocula, 

 Guerrero, Mexico.] 



This species needs comparison only with D. falcata (vide infra), 

 from which the male can be immediately separated by having the 

 subgenital plate exserted in lobes, the female by having the tegmina 

 not overlapping and both sexes by the proportionately more elongate 

 limbs. 



Types: (f and 9 ; Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico. [Brunner 

 •Collection.] 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



75 



AVe here describe a topotypic female from the Hebarcl Collection, 

 (data: Cuernavaca, Mexico; January 4, 1899). 



Description. — Size medium; form subcompressed. Head with the 

 occiput subglobose, strongly descending to the antennal fossse; 

 fastigium compressed, short, subcultriform-lamellatc dorsad, apex 

 rounded when seen from the side and not projecting cephalad of the 



rig. 1. — Dichopetala mexicana Brunner. Lateral outline of topo- 

 typic female. (X 2.) 



antennal scrobes, almost touching the facial fastigium; face, genae, 

 clypeus and labrum glabrous; eyes ovate in basal outline, moderately 

 prominent; antennae incomplete. Pronotum with the greatest 

 dorsal length subequal to the greatest ventral width (across lobes) 

 of same; dorsum of pronotum with the impressed transverse sulcus 

 distinct, broadly V-shaped, placed mesad, the dorsum slightly 

 constricted at the same point; cephalic and caudal margins of disk 

 subtruncate; lateral lobes of pronotum with the 

 greatest depth contained one and two-thirds times in 

 the greatest dorsal length of the same, ventral margin 

 subtruncate, cephalic and caudal angles of the same 

 margin rounded, transverse sulcus marked only on the 

 dorsal portion of the lobes and there descending ob- 

 liquely ventro-cephalad. Tegmina very short, reaching 

 the caudal margin of the metanotum, much broader 

 than long, the greatest length contained twice in the 

 greatest width, distal margin broadly arcuate, disto- 

 costal and disto-sutural angles broadly rounded, sutural 

 margins narrowly separated. Abdomen heavy; cerci 

 very short, crassate, substyliform, the apex rather sharply attenu- 

 ate; ovipositor heavy, robust, the length half that of the caudal 

 femora, dorsal margin moderately arcuate, ventral margin straight 

 for the median three-fourths, strongly arcuate proxiinad and distad, 



Fig. 2. — Di- 

 chopetala 

 mexicayia 

 Brunner. 

 Ventral 

 outline of 

 s ubgenital 

 plate of 

 topotypic 

 female. 

 (X4.) 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.,. 



the proximal half of the whole ovipositor in consequence tapering, 

 to the middle, thence subequal in width to the subacute apex, dorsal 

 margin strongly serrato-dentate for a third of its length from the 

 apex, with nine to ten teeth, ventral margin armed in a similar 

 fashion for a fourth of its distal length, with seven to eight teeth; 

 subgenital plate moderately transverse, lateral margins broadly con- 

 vergent, distal margin broadly and shallowly arcuato-emarginate, the 

 lateral angles forming very short rectangulate lobes. Cephalic femora, 

 with the length slightly greater than the dorsal length of the ovipos - 

 itor, slightly less than the ventral length of the ovipositor; cephalic 

 tibiae slightly longer than the femora, spined on all the margins, for- 

 amina elliptical. Median femora very slightly longer than the cephalic 

 pair. Caudal femora about two and one-third times the length of 

 the cephalic femora, moderately inflated proximad, ventral margins 

 unspined, genicular lobes spined; caudal tibige surpassing the length 

 of the femora by about the length of the pronotum, dorsal margins 

 more heavily spined than the ventral ones. 



Description of the Male Type (from Brunner). — Tegmina of male 

 with the internal margin having a considerably produced angle. 

 Cerci of male robust at base, not far from base horizontally incurved 

 at a right angle, attenuate, compressed, acute acuminate. Sub- 

 genital plate of male very much flattened, attenuate in the middle, 

 exserted caudad in two lobes. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Cuernavaca, Mex. Rio Cocula, 

 " > Mex. 



cf 9 9 9 



(Type, ex (Type, ex [Hebard (Type of 



Brunner). Brunner). Coll.] pulchra.). 



Length of body (exclusive of [A.N.S.P.] 



ovipositor) 18. 15. 17.5 20. 



Length of pronotum 3.5 4. 5. 4.5 



Greatest caudal width of disk 



of pronotum 3.7 3.2 



Length of tegmen 1.6 1. 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.6 2.2 



Length of cephalic femur 10. 9. 10. 11. 



Length of median femur 11.4 12. 



Length of caudal femur 24. 23. 25.6 24.5 



Length of ovipositor 12. 12.3 11.2 



Color Notes. — The original color characters given by Brunner are 

 as follows (paraphrased) : Green. Occiput rufous, with a fine 

 median line of sulphur. Pronotum rufous, disk fuscous, marked 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Avith longitudinal lines of sulphur, approximating mesad. Tegmina 

 of male green, disk fusco-maeulate, external margin all)o-vittate. 

 All of the femora rufescent at their bases, toward the apices green, 

 apex of the caudal femora, as well as the base of the caudal tibiae, 

 infuscate. Abdomen of male fuscous dorsad, marked with a black 

 line and a broad vitta of sulphur, distal segment of male rufous. 

 Cerci of male nigro-lineate. Subgenital plate of male light green, 

 lobes nigro-marginate internally at termination. Abdomen of female 

 rufo-punctate. Ovipositor with both margins rufescent at apex. 



The two females before us show considerable color variation which 

 the following description covers. 



General color of the face, gense, lateral lobes of the pronotum, 

 pleura^ and greater portion of the lateral aspect of the abdomen honey 

 yellow to dull green yellow, ventral aspect of the body similar but 

 inclining toward Avax yellow. Dorsal aspect of pronotum, fastigium, 

 occiput, dorsum of abdomen, a^id dorsal portion of lateral aspects of 

 the latter brick red to claret red. Eyes buckthorn brown to raw 

 sienna, crossed obliquely by a fine seal brown line; antennae with the 

 two proximal joints largely morocco red to claret brown, remaining 

 joints of dorsal color; ventral portion of infra-ocular region, at base 

 of mandibles, with a more or less distinct blotch of claret brown. 

 Pronotum with a pair of narrow discal lines varying from honey 

 yellow to light viridine yellow, these bordered more or less distinctly 

 on one or both (dorsal and lateral) margins by blackish lines, the pale 

 lines regularly diverging cephalad and caudad from the middle of 

 the pronotum; cephalic and caudal margins of the disk more or less 

 -distinctly beaded with blackish. Tegmina with the discoidal 

 section of the color of the dorsum of the abdomen, occasionally washed 

 in part with blackish; marginal field of lateral color; distal margin 

 in one specimen edged narrowly with the green of the limbs, sutural 

 region approaching the lateral color in the other specimen. Abdomen 

 with traces of a seal brown pattern bordering the lateral section of 

 the dorsal color, the pattern sometimes enclosing areas of the clear 

 dorsal color and again merely a line of seal brown; marginal beading 

 of segments distinct dorsad, more or less distinct laterad. Ovi- 

 positor of lateral color, more or less washed with parrot green, the 

 rufous margining extending to the base on the dorsal margin and 

 little proximad of the armed section on the ventral margin, dorso- 

 proximal section with the sulcus more or less blackish. Limbs 

 absinthe green to claret brown, proximal portion of the cephalic and 

 median femora washed with chestnut when the general color of the 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



femora is green; apices of all the femora, or only the caudal femora 

 and the adjacent portion of the tibiae blackish; caudal femora proxi- 

 mad with a reticulate pattern of blackish brown on the lateral face, 

 a central line of which pattern is more or less decidedly indicated;, 

 distal portion of the caudal tibiae and tarsi blackish. 



Distribution. — The present species is known only from two localities 

 on the slopes of the upper Rio Balsas Valley in the states of Morelos 

 and Guerrero, Mexico. The species apparently has a range in 

 vertical distribution extending from about 1900 to 5440 feet, from 

 the evidence of the two localities from which it is now known. 



Morphological Notes. — The ovipositor, as is usual in species of the 

 genus, varies somewhat in length. The subgenital plate of the 

 female shows considerable variation in the form of the distal margin, 

 ranging from the truncate type originally described, through the 

 moderately arcuato-emarginate condition found in our Cuernavaca 

 topotype, to the moderately decided and distinct obtuse-angulate 

 emarginate condition found in the Rio Cocula specimen. The- 

 tegmina of the "female have a certain amount of variation in the distal 

 margin of the same, this being more truncate in one of our specimens 

 than in the other. There is also some little variation in the \ndth 

 of the interspace between the tegmina in the same sex. 



Synonymy. — The senior author is responsible for the only synonym 

 of the present species — D. pulchra. The female specimen on which 

 that synonym was based was first recorded correctly by him as 

 D. ?nexicana, but later differences in the subgenital plate were noticed 

 which seemed of specific value, and the individual was separated as 

 D. pulchra, its closest relationship being supposed to be with D. 

 emarginata. The apparent difference on which this separation was 

 made we now know to be untrustworthy, as the amount of com- 

 pression of the plate produces a different form in the margins of the 

 same. A certain amount of individual variation in the emargination 

 of this plate is also evident from the form of it in the three known 

 individuals of that sex. 



Remarks. ^Ow'ing to our lack of male individuals of this species, 

 the type of that sex being unique as far as known, we have placed 

 the species in the male key from the evidence of the original descrip- 

 tion. 



Specimens Examined. — 2; 2 females. 



Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, January 4, 1899, 1 9 . [Hebard 

 Coll.] 



Rio Cocula, Guerrero, Mexico, May 12, 1898, (Otis W. Barrett), 

 1 9 . Type of pulchra. [A. N. S. P.] 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Dichopetala falcata n. sp. 



This species belongs to the same section of the genus as mexicana, 

 but differs in the greater general size, the shorter limbs of the male, 

 in the tegmina being overlapping in the female, the male subgenital 

 plate being without exserted lobes, in the same portion in the female 

 being distinctly emarginate and in the greater length of the ovipositor. 

 Type: cf ; Tepic, Mexico. (Eisen.) [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Type. — Size quite large (for the genus); form 

 comparatively robust. Head with its greatest width contained about 

 one and one-half times in the depth; occiput well inflated, steeply 

 declivent to the very short, compressed, and sublamellate fastigium, 

 the apex of which is very bluntly recurved, very slightly separated 

 from the apex of the facial fastigium; eyes small, elliptical in outline, 



Fig. 3. — Dichopetala falcata n. sp. Lateral outline 

 of type. (X2.) 



the length about equal to half that of the infra-ocular portion of the 

 genae; antennae elongate, proximal joint subdepressed. Pronotum 

 with the greatest dorsal length subequal to the greatest width across 

 the ventral portion of the lateral lobes, dorsal line when seen from the 

 side straight, the whole dorsum slightly constricted mesad when viewed 

 from the dorsal aspect; cephalic margin of disk moderately arcuato- 

 emarginate, caudal margin truncate; but a single complete transverse 

 sulcus present, this entering the disk laterad at the middle and on the 

 middle of the disk strongly arcuate caudad; lateral lobes distinctly 

 longer than deep, the greatest depth contained one and one-half 

 times in the length of the same, ventro-cephalic angle very narrowly 

 rotundato-rectangulate, caudal margin obliquely rotundato-truncate, 




so PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ventro-caudal angle very broadly rotundate, ventral margin slightlj' 

 arcuato-emarginate. Tegmina with their exposed length about 

 three-fourtjis that of the dorsum of the pronotum, broad, the greatest 

 width slightly exceeding the length of the same, the general form 

 subquadrate ; marginal field regularly narrowing distad, distal 

 extremity broadly arcuato-truncate, disto-costal angle narrowly 

 rounded, sutural margin with the proximal angle distinct, subrect, 

 thence the margin is obliquely biundulate to the distal margin; 

 texture of the tegmina coriaceous, the principal veins poorly indicated, 

 interstices obscurely and irregularly reticulate, stridulating vein 

 strongly indicated. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment transverse, a 

 rectangular depressed area present mesad; supra-anal plate trans- 

 verse trigonal, the apex distinctly produced in a short slightly 

 upturned acute process; cerci simple, depressed, falciform, the 

 proximal third moderately broad, slightly lamellate laterad, dis- 

 tinctly tapering from the proximal third, the internal margin regularly 

 arcuate, the external one with a rounded angle where the proximal 



Fig. 4. — Dichopetala f ale at a n. sp. Fig. 5.—Dichopetala falicata n. sp. 

 - Outline of apex of abdomen of type Outline of ovipositor of allotype, 



seen from the dorsum. (X 3.) (X 2.) 



lamellation disappears, the form of the whole cercus appearing 

 bent-arcuate in consequence, apex acute; subgenital plate broad, 

 short, narrowing distad, the apex very narrowly subtruncate. 

 Cephalic femora about one and one-half times the length of the 

 dorsum of the pronotum. Median femora nearl}^ twice the length of 

 the pronotum. Caudal femora with their length not greatly inferior 

 to that of the body, distinctly but not greatly inflated proximad, 

 ventral margins unarmed, genicular lobes very weakly or not at all 

 spined; caudal tibias distinctly but not greatly exceeding the femora 

 in length, dorsal spines more numerous than the ventral ones. 

 Allotype: 9 ; Tepic, Mexico. (Eisen.) [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype.- — Differing from the type in the following 

 characters: Pronotum with the dorsal length slightly greater than 

 the greatest ventral width across the lobes, median constriction 

 extremely slight, hardly evident, cephalic margin emarginato- 

 truncate, caudal margin truncate. Tegmina shorter, their exposed 

 length no greater than half of the pronotal length, decidedly broader 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



than long, maroins as in the male, the sutural margins overlapping 

 for the greater ])()rtion of their length, with their form much the same 

 as in the male. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment and the supra-anal 

 plate similar in form to that found in the male, but the terminal 

 tubercle of the latter is broader and less evident; cerci very short, 

 crassate, tapering, apex acute; ovipositor with the length about one 

 and one-half times that of the cephalic femora, moderately heavy, 

 the dorsal margin regularly and distinctly arcuato-concave, ventral 

 margin straight except at the extreme proximal and distal extremities, 

 at the latter well arcuate dorsad to the subacute apex, for the distal 

 third of the dorsal and a fourth of the ventral margins strongly 

 serrato-dentate; subgenital plate transverse, distal margin bis- 

 arcuate emarginate, produced into brief trigonal lobes laterad. 

 Cephalic femora slightly less than one and one-half times the length 

 of the disk of the pronotum. Median femora al)out one and two- 

 thirds times the length of the pronotum. Caudal femora with their 

 length distinctly exceeding that of the body (exclusive of that of the 

 ovipositor). 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Tepic, Mex. 



d^ 9 



(Type.) (Allotype.) 



Length of body 23 . 21.5 



Length of pronotum 5.5 6.9 



Greatest ventral -width of pronotum 5.7 ■ 6.3 



Length of tegmen 4.2 3.3 



Length of cephalic femur 8 . 9.2 



Length of median femur 10. 11. 



Length of caudal femur 21.5 25. 



Length of caudal tibia 23 . 26 . 5 



Length of ovipositor 14.5 



Color Notes. — Both specimens of this species seen by us have been 

 at some time immersed in a liquid preservative which has completely 

 removed their original color, leaving them in general a pale ochraceous. 

 Fortunately, however, sufficient of the pattern remains to enable us 

 to give a few notes on "the same. Caudal portion of the occiput, 

 which area is usually covered by the pronotum, seal brown, a very 

 fine postocular line of the same and sometimes a similar weak 

 medio-longitudinal line on the occiput present, the post-ocular 

 continued ventro-cephalad across the eye; antennae irregularly but 

 very closely and strikingly annulate with seal brown. Pronotum 

 with the disk margined laterad with fine continuations of the post- 

 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jall.^ 



ocular lines of the head, subparallel caudad to the transverse sulcus 

 and thence distinctly but not greatly diverging (male), or regularly 

 but very gently diverging throughout their entire length (female). 

 Tegmina with the dorsum darker than the marginal field, the venation 

 of the pale general color on a darker, nearly wine-colored, background, 

 humeral trunk of the darker color. Abdomen with the dorsum of the 

 proximal segments in the male narrowly edged cephalad with seal 

 brown, this portion like that similarly colored on the occiput proliably 

 normally concealed; the dorsum of the abdomen separated from the 

 sides by a more or less distinct line, which in position is continuous 

 with the postocular line of the head and pronotum; caudal margin 

 of the dorsal segments in the female more or less distinctly and 

 broadly edged Avith darker color. Limbs more or less decidedly 

 washed with madder brown, a slight edging of the same color on the 

 dorsal margin of the ovipositor, the terminal teeth of the same tipped 

 with seal brown. 



Distribution. — This very striking species is only known from the 

 type locality, the territory of Tepic, western Mexico. 



Specimens Examined. — 2; 1 male, 1 female. 



Tepic, Mexico, (Eisen), 1 cT, 1 9. Type and allotype. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 

 Dichopetala serrifera n. sp. 



On account of the peculiarly serrate cerci of the male, this species 

 occupies a unique position, and comparison with other forms is not 

 necessary. 



Type: cT ; Barranca, twelve kilometers north of Guadalajara, 

 state of Jalisco, Mexico. Altitude not less than 3,500 feet. Septem- 

 ber 13, 1933. (W. L. Tower.) [American Museum of Natural 

 History.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form subcompressed. Head 

 with greatest width contained about one and one-half times in. 

 greatest depth; occiput moderately declivent to fastigium and 

 antennal scrobes; fastigium low, acuminate, faintly sulcate dorsad, 

 ventrad subattingent with frontal fastigium; eyes moderately 

 prominent, reniform in basal outline, depth about two-thirds that 

 of the infra-ocular portion of the gense; antennae incomplete. Pro- 

 notum moderately sellate, greatest ventral width about five-sixths 

 that of the dorsal len2;th of the pronotum, greatest caudal width of 

 disk about two-thirds length of same; cephalic margin of disk very 

 broadly and shallowly obtuse-angulate emarginate; lateral margins 

 of disk of pronotum (as indicated by color pattern) slightly con- 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



83 



verging caudad from the cephalic margin to the middle, thence 

 decidedly diverging to the caudal margin; transverse sulcus rather 

 weak except at median line, crossing margins of disk mesad, broadly 

 V-shaped on disk; lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained 

 one and two-thirds times in the greatest dorsal length of lobes, 

 cephalic margin straight, ventro-cephalic angle obtuse, ventral 

 margin obliquely sinuato-truncate, ventrorcaudal angle more or less 



Fig. 6. — Dichopetala serrijera 'n. sp. Lateral outline of 



type. (X 3.) 



broadly rounded, caudal margin obliquely subtruncate except for a 

 short dorsal section which is truncate with the caudal margin of the 

 disk. Tegmina subequal to four-fifths the length of the pronotal 

 disk, width of discoidal and anal fields subequal to the caudal width 

 of pronotal disk; marginal field broad, costal margin gently arcuate, 

 strongly arcuate distad, distal extremity of whole tegmen obliquely 

 truncate, sutural margin strongly obtuse-angulate produced at the 

 apex of the stridulating vein, distad of this pro- 

 jection straight and rounding into the distal 

 margin; stridulating vein decided, straight, distal 

 portion of stridulating field with anastomosing 

 short cross veins. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment 

 with main portion of same truncate distad, a 

 broad triangular impressed area indicated; supra- 

 anal plate trigonal with the apex briefly and 

 narrowly fissate; cerci with the proximal half 

 robust proximad, thence decidedly tapering, at the 

 middle the shaft is bent rather sharply meso- 

 dorsad, subdepressed and slightly expanded at the apex, the margins 

 proper unarmed, dorsal face\\-ith an elevated ridge bearing ten to eleven 

 teeth of unequal width but subequal length, the distal extremity of 



Fig. 7. — Dichopetala 

 serrijera n. sp. 

 Outline of apex of 

 abdomen of type 

 from dorsum. 

 (X 3.) 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the cercus proper rectangulate, distal extremity of the toothed ridge 

 with the terminal tooth distinctly projecting, immediately proximad 

 of which, on what is properly the lateral margin of the shaft, is placed 

 an extra adpressed tooth; subgenital plate very ample, moderately 

 produced, lateral margins subparallel, distal margin arcuato-truncate, 

 lateral angles produced into considerable styliform appendages, 

 which in length are about equal to one-half the distances between 

 their bases. Cephalic femora slightly more than one and one-half 

 times the length of the dorsum of the pronotum; cephalic tibiae with 

 foramina elliptical. Median femora one-third again as long as the 

 cephalic femora. Caudal limbs damaged. 



Measurements {in millimeters). — Type: length of body, 16.5; 

 length of pronotum, 5; greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 3.7; 

 length of tegmen, 4; width of discoidal and anal fields of tegmen, 

 3.3; length of cephalic femur, 8.2; length of median femur, 10. 



Color Notes. — General color cinnamon buff. Dorsum of proximal 

 portion of occiput, extending cephalo-laterad as far as the eyes, 

 disk of pronotum, proximal portion of anal field of tegmina, inter- 

 marginal section of proximal third of the sutural margin of the same, 

 greater portion of discoidal field of same and dorsum of abdomen, 

 sharply delimited laterad, black. Medio-longitudinal region of 

 pronotum and abdomen with a bar varying from burnt sienna to 

 clay color, this area narrow cephalad on the pronotum, somewhat 

 expanded caudad on same, very poorly defined on abdomen and 

 there broad mesad. Eyes cinnamon l:)rown flecked with blackish 

 brown; antennae with the two proximal joints touched with claret 

 brown laterad, remaining joints and ventral surface of the two 

 proximal ones black, the simpler joints narrowly annulate with the 

 general color distad. Lateral lobes of the pronotum sparsely and 

 weakly punctulate with bone brown. Tegmina with region of 

 humeral trunk burnt sienna; edge of proximal third of sutural 

 margin of general color. Lateral aspect of abdomen rather heavily 

 punctulate with bone brown; margins of all segments more or less 

 beaded light and dark; a pale unmarked area present on each side 

 of abdomen in the position usually occupied, in species of the genus, 

 b}^ jiale Ijands; disto-dorsal al)dominal segment with the black of 

 the dorsum limited to proximo-later ad trigonal areas. Limbs more 

 or less Aveakly washed with victoria lake, the femora considerably 

 and tibiae less decidedly lined and speckled in linear fashion with 

 black; tarsi black. 



Distribution. — The species is only known from the type localit3^ 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Remarks. — The type of this remarkable species is unique. 



Specimeyjs Examined. — 1 ; 1 male. 



Barranca, twelve kilometers north of Guadalajara, state of Jalisco, 

 Mexico, elevation about 3,500 feet, September 13, 1903 (W. L. Tower), 

 1 d". Type. [Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist.] 



Diohopetala durangensis n. sp. 



Related, as shown by the female sex, to D. falcata, from which it 

 differs in the much smaller size, the more sellate pronotum, the rela- 

 tively more prominent and larger eyes, the shorter and more abbrevi- 

 ate tegmina, the more decidedly trigonal extremity of the disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment and in the much more robust ovipositor. The 

 available males are not mature, but they show conclusively that the 

 species has a median tooth or lobe on the cercus, while /a?ca/a has the 

 same simple, aside from which the form of the subgenital plate is 

 characteristic. As the females of all of the species except D. serrifera 

 are known, we have no hesitation in describing the species "without 



Fig. 8. — Dichopetala durangensis n. sp. Lateral outline of 



type. (X2.) 



adult males, as the possibility of the present form being the female 

 of serrifera is exceedingly remote. 



Type: 9 ; Durango, Mexico. (Palmer.) [Scudder Coll.] 

 Description of Type. — Size medium; form rather robust. Head 

 with the occiput sharply declivent to the fastigium, strongly arcuate 

 in transverse section; fastigium little elevated, slightly recurved at 

 the apex, elongate, but little compressed, shallowly sulcate dorsad, 

 ventrad touching the fastigium of the face; eyes moderately promi- 

 nent, ovate, the depth of same at least two-thirds that of the infra- 

 ocular portion of the gense; antennae incomplete. Pronotum weakly 

 sellate, broad, the greatest ventral width but slightly surpassing the 

 greatest dorsal length of disk; disk of pronotum with the lateral 

 margins, which are weakly indicated structurally by calloused lines 

 ' and strongly by color pattern, parallel to the transverse sulcus, which 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JaiL, 



severs the same mesad, thence shghtly divergent caudad; cephahc 

 margin of disk weakly arcuato-emarginate, caudal margin of same 

 truncate, width of disk caudad contained about one and one-third 



times in the length of the same; transverse 

 sulcus forming a broad V-shaped pattern mesad 

 on the disk; lateral lobes of the pronotum with 

 the greatest depth contained one and two-thirds 

 times in the dorsal length of the same, cephalic 



jpj„ 9 Dichopetala ii^^rgin of same very faintly emarginate dorsad, 



diirangensis n. sp. ventro-cephalic angle rotundato-rectangulate, 

 head' pronotum ventral margin moderately sinuato-truncate, ven- 

 and tegmina. tro-caudal angle broadly rounded, caudal margin 

 ^ '^ obliquely arcuato-truncate. Tegmina with the 



exposed portion about two-fifths the length of the dorsum of the 

 •pronotum, transverse, greatest width about twice the apparent 

 length, considerably overlapping mesad; costal margin obliquely 

 arcuate, sutural margin subtruncate, distal margin subtruncate, 

 disto-sutural angle narrowly rounded; marginal field comprising 

 about two-fifths the entire tegminal width. Supra-anal plate 

 rotundato-trigonal, the distal margin of same slightly thickened and 

 recurved; cerci very short, conical, apex slightly incurved; ovipositor 

 about one-half the length of the caudal femora, moderately falciform, 

 median depth about one-sixth of the length, dorsal margin con- 

 siderably and regularly arcuate, ventral margin for about three-fourths 

 of the length subtruncate, the distal fourth of the ventral margin 

 strongly arcuate, dorsal margin with distal two-fifths armed with 

 six to seven decided teeth which are well spaced and increasing in 

 length distad, ventral margin armed on distal fourth with nine spines, 

 which increase in length distad and are slightly recurved at the same 

 end of series; subgenital plate small, broadly emarginato-truncate 

 mesad, laterad with short trigonal lobes at the angles. Cephalic 

 femora slightly shorter than length of head, pronotum and tegmina 

 combined, very faintly clavate distad; tibiae distinctly exceeding the 

 femora in length, tympanum small, elliptical. Median femora one- 

 third longer than the cephalic femora. Caudal femora moderately 

 elongate, proximal dilation moderate, regularly tapering to the 

 narrow subequal distal portion; caudal tibiae exceeding the femora 

 l)y about one-half the length of the pronotal disk. 



Notes on Male Sex. — As all the specimens (two in number) of this 

 sex are immature, we can give only a few notes on the genitalia as 

 there found. The cerci are provided mesad on the dorsal surface 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



with the beginning of what is unquestional)!}' in the adult a very 

 decided lobe, the distal margin of which in the nymphal condition 

 is nearly rectangulate, the whole being considerably elevated dorsad 

 of the shaft of the cercus. The distal portion of the cercus is little 

 curved, robust, slightly depressed, the apex acute. Subgenital plate 

 moderately produced, subequal in width, the distal margin deeply 

 rotundato-emarginate, the lateral angles acute, slightly recurved 

 toward the median line. 



Parahjpic Series. — We have before us two paratypic adult females, 

 one of which is measured below. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Duran^o, Mex. 



(Type.) (Paratype.) 



9 9 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 15. 5"^ 18.2^" 



Length of pronotum 4.3 4.1 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3.2 2.9 



Length of tegmen 2. 2. 



Greatest width of tegmen 3.2 2.9 



Length of cephalic femur 7.3 7.5 



Length of median femur 8.9 9. 



Length of caudal femur 20.2 



Length of ovipositor 10.5 10.2 



Color NotesM — General shade ranging from old gold to oil green, 

 on the pronotum paling (in the old-gold individual) to light viridine 

 green. A pair of narrow lines of blackish 'are more or less distinctly 

 indicated, extending from the dorsal margin of the eye caudad over 

 the sides of occiput and along the lateral angles of the pronotal disk, 

 margined laterad by a band of empire yellow of varying width and 

 <lefinition. Eyes argus brown, blotched with blackish; antennae 

 with the two proximal joints ranging from claret brown to burnt 

 sienna, remaining joints blackish with narrow dull apricot yellow 

 distal annuli; occiput more or less washed with very dull weak 

 maroon. Dorsum of pronotum with cephalic half of disk very 

 weakly washed with morocco red, a medio-longitudinal line of 



'0 In both of these females the abdomen has been bent ventro-cephalad and 

 in consequence the length given above is not the real length of the insect, but 

 only the shortest distance between the point of the fastigium and the base of the 

 ovipositor. It is not possible to get a true measurement of length from the 

 present material. 



'1 In the present notes only the two well-preserved adults have been used, a 

 few notes on the nymphs being placed at the end. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jau., 



seal brown present, the latter finely divided cephalo-caudad by a 

 thread of morocco red; cephalic and caudal margins of disk with 

 more or less regular and decided beading of blackish, the whole 

 of the pronotuufwith a more or less decided sprinkling of bay colored 

 points which vary in intensity with the blackish lateral lines. Teg- 

 mina varying from apricot orange to hazel, humeral trunk hay's 

 russet. Abdomen with the proximo-dorsal portion of each segment 

 (these areas hidden when the abdomen is not stretched) Ijlackish, 

 distal margin of segments more or less beaded with l^lackish or 

 prout's brown, the entire surface dorsad and laterad more or less 

 sprinkled with stipples of the latter color. In line with the post- 

 ocular line and tegminal humeral trunk there is continued to the apex 

 of the abdomen a pattern, which is indicated by a limiting to the 

 region between the same of the decided marginal beadings and the 

 proximal blackish markings of the segments, or a pale line similar 

 in color to the pale portion of the postocular line. Mesad on the 

 abdomen is indicated more or less distinctly a line similar in color to 

 the above-mentioned yellowish lateral ones. Limljs more or less 

 washed with madder brown, lined and dotted in linear fashion with 

 black; caudal femora proximad of the color of the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum triply lined with blackish; all tibiae lined dorsad and 

 laterad with blackish. Ovipositor more yellowish than the general 

 tone, with the dorsal margin more or less maroon. The type has the 

 general color old gold with the abdominal segments blackish proximad. 

 One of the nymphs is nearly uniform parrot green, another ochraceous- 

 tawny, both with pale postocular lines, and the third with the two 

 colors combined, the first cephalad and the second caudad, the limbs 

 and whole dorsum strongly punctulate with black and the lined 

 pattern very decided blackish and whitish, the medio-longitudinal 

 line continued on the head. 



Distribution. — The species is only known from Durango, Mexico. 



Remarks. — Of the material known belonging to this most interest- 

 ing and beautiful species, one adult female has been badly damaged 

 in the past by insect pests, so it has not been considered in the previous 

 description. The nymphs are not perfect, but there can be no 

 question of their identity with the adult females. 



Specimens Examined. — 7; 4 females, 2 male nymphs, 1 female 

 nymph. 



Durango, Mexico (Pahner), 3 9 (Type, paratypes), 2 cf nymphs, 

 1 9 nymph. [Scudder Coll.] 



Durango, state of Durango, Mexico, November 27, 1909, (F. C. 

 Bishop), 19. [U. S. N. M.] 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



89^ 



Dichopetala poUicifera n. sp. 



This very clLstinet species requires comparison witii none of the 

 other forms of the genus, the general build, nearly uniform greenish 

 coloration, depressed external tooth on male cercus and the form of 

 thetegmina readily distinguishing it. 



Type: cf ; Bro^vnsville, Cameron County, Texas. July 31— 

 August 5, 1912. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form quite robust (for the 

 sex); surface smooth, unpolished. Head not at all elevated dorsad 

 of the level of the disk of the pronotum, occiput roundly but rather 



Fig. 10. — Dichopetala poUicifera n. sp. Lateral view of 



type. (X2.) 



decidedly declivent cephalad; fastigium narrow, very acute lanceo- 

 late, low, dorsum subsulcate, caudad from the base of the fastigium 

 extends for a short distance a faint elevated- line, 

 ventral portion of the fastigium of the vertex 

 touching the fastigium of the front; eyes very 

 prominent, ovate, the greatest width contained 

 about one and one-half times in the depth of the Fig. 11. —Die hope- 

 eye, the depth of the eye contained about one and n. sp. Outline of 

 one-half times in that of the infra-ocular portion 

 ofthegenae; antennae filiform, rather heavy, in 

 perfect specimens (the type has the antennae 

 broken) about three times as long as the body, 

 the greatest (ventral) width but little less than the length of 

 the dorsum of the pronotum, caudal width of the dorsum con- 

 tained about one and one-third times in the length of the same, 

 dorsum straight cephalo-caudad when viewed from the lateral 

 aspect, appreciably arcuate in transverse section, cephalic margiix 

 of the disk emarginato-truncate, caudal margin faintly arcuate, 

 slightly flattened • with the faintest possible sinuation mesad,. 

 lateral margins of the disk indicated by the usual callous lines. 



apex of abdomen 

 of type from dor- 

 sum. (X4.) 



Pronotum with-. 




•90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



•severed once and then by the transverse sulcus, which is placed very 



slightly cephalad of the middle, subparallel caudad to this sulcus, 



thence slightly diverging to the caudal margin; transverse sulcus of 



a V-shaped form mesad; lateral lobes with the greatest depth 



contained about twice in the greatest (dorsal) length of the same, 



•cephalic margin nearly straight, ventro-ceplialic angle nearly rectan- 



gulate, ventral margin arcuato-sinuate cephalad and arcuately 



expanded caudad, rounding into the oblique, slightly arcuate caudal 



margin, transverse sulcus impressed dorsad. Tegmina with their 



length subequal to that of tlie dorsum 



of the pronotum, their greatest width 



(not flattened) subequal to their length; 



costal margin straight with the disto- 



costal angle well rounded, distal margin 



bluntly arcuate, passing broadly without any 



1,0 rw- 1, sign of angulation into the strongly ob- 



Tigs. \2 and 13.— Dichope- . '^ t , • ^ , 



inla pollicifera n. sp. uque and gently arcuate distal portion of the 



Dorsal outline of head, gutural margin, proximal portion of the 

 pronotum, and tegmina ^ 1 • , , • , , 



of male type (12) and sutural margin obliquely truncate, at the 



female allotype (13). extremity of the stridulating vein slightly 



produced, rotundato-rectangulate; marginal 

 field very narrow; discoidal field with a fine, irregular network of 

 veins; stridulating vein slightly oblique, slightly arcuate; tympanum 

 very faintly outlined, trigonal, the sharpest angle directed meso- 

 proximad; proximal portion of the anal field (i.e., proximad of the 

 stridulating vein) closely but rather coarsely areolate. Abdomen 

 •quite plump; disto-dorsal abdominal segment strongly arcuato- 

 emarginate laterad by the bases of the cerci; supra-anal plate 

 forming a transverse lappet which has its greatest length contained 

 about three times in its greatest width, distal margin of same truncate, 

 broadly arcuate laterad; cerci simple, heavy, slightly depressed, 

 distal portion of the cercus and median tooth decidedly depressed, 

 the distal portion of the cercus tapering, acute, the immediate apex 

 verj' fine, clawlike and slightly hooked, median tooth placed on the 

 •external face of the cercus, broad, 'bluntly lanceolate, reaching about 

 half way from the i^oint of its origin to the apex of the cercus, closely 

 apposed to the shaft of the cercus for the greater portion of its length ; 

 subgenital plate moderately elongate, V-shaped in section, distal 

 half with the margins moderately and regularly convergent, distal 

 extremity deeply V-emarginate, the emargination extending slightly 

 more than a fourth the way to the base of the plate, laterad of the 




1914.] TSIATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



median emargiiiation the converging lateral margins cause the 

 lateral angles to appear as acute trigonal projections with their 

 immediate angles blunted. Cephalic femora nearly twice as long 

 .as the dorsum of the pronotum, slender; cephalic tihise appreciably 

 exceeding the femora in length, foramina elliptical. Median femora 

 subequal to the head, pronotum and tegmina in length, similar in 

 build to the cephalic femora; median tibiae exceeding the femora by 

 about the same proportion as in the cephalic limbs. Caudal femora 

 one and one-third times as long as the body, very moderately inflated 

 in the proximal half, slightly compressed, genicular lobes not dis- 

 tinctly spined, but with a minute point (sometimes absent) at the 

 .apex of each lobe; caudal tibise surpassing the femoral length by 

 about four-fifths the length of the dorsum of the pronotum. 



Allotype: 9 ; Brownsville, Cameron County, Texas. July 31- 

 August 5, 1912. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — The following characters "are solely those 

 of difference from the above description of the type, features not 

 mentioned are essentially as in the male sex. 



Size large (for the genus); form robust. Head noticeably 



broad, the greatest width nearly equal to the depth of the 



■head as far as the clypeal suture; fastigium very brief, slightly 



elevated at the extremity; eyes moderately prominent, slightly 



compressed, ovoid, their depth contained slightly more than 



one and one-half times in the depth of the infra-ocular portion 



-of the gense; antennae about one and one-half times the length 



,of the body. Pronotum heavy, the dorsum more arcuate in 



section than in the opposite sex, caudal 



"width of the disk contained one and 



one-third times in the length of the 



same, greatest ventral width of the 



pronotum equal to about five-sixths Fig. 14. — Dichopetala pollicifera 

 r -1 1 xi f J.1 1 c 4.\ n. sp. Outline of ovipositoi' of 



of the length ■ 01 the dorsum of the allotype (X4) 



^ame; cephalic margin of the disk 



emarginato-truncate, caudal margin of the same moderately arcuate. 



no appreciable callous bounding lines present on the disk, which 



rounds into the lateral lobes; transverse sulcus weakly indicated, 



placed mesad and on the middle of the disk impressed in a broad, 



\'-shaped figure; lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained 



one and two-thirds times in the dorsal length of the same, margins 



as in the males but with the ventro-cephalic angle blunter. Tegmina 



with their apparent length about one-fourth that of the pronotum, 



their greatest width nearly two and one-half times their visible 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan,^ 



length, interspace between the tegmina very slightly less than half 

 the apparent length of the tegmina; distal extremity of the tegmina 

 arcuato-truncate, broadly rounding to the costal margin and more 

 narrowly to the sutural margin. Supra-anal plate very broad 

 trigonal, apex very blunt; cerci short, conical, distal portion slightly 

 elongate; ovipositor subequal to the combined length of the head, 

 pronotum and tegmina, the greatest proximal depth contained 

 slightly more than three times in the length of the same, moderately 

 tapering in the proximal two-thirds, moderately arcuate, dorsal 

 margin moderately arcuate, ventral margin with slightly more than 

 the median half of its length nearly straight, considerably arcuate 

 proximad, strongly arcuate distad, general angle of the margins 

 distad slightly more acute than a rectangle, distal fourth of the dorsal 

 margin with seven to eight teeth, low proximad and increasing in 

 length distad, erect, directed disto-dorsad, ventral margin with the 

 distal fourth armed with eight to nine spines, slightly increasing in 

 length distad, the extreme distal ones slightly hooked; subgenital 

 plate small, V-emarginate distad for about half of its length, the 

 portions of the plate laterad of the median emargination present as 

 acute trigonal lobes, the apex of which is slightly beyond the general 

 form of the lobe. Cephalic femora about one and one-half times the 

 length of the dorsum of the pronotum, more robust than in the male 

 sex. Median femora about a third again as long as the cephalic 

 femora. Caudal femora slightly more robust than in the male, 

 but of similar proportions. 



Paratypic Series. — A series of fourteen males and eight females 

 bearing exactly the same data as the type and allotype have been, 

 selected as paratypes. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Brownsville, Tex. 



(Type.) (Paratypes.) 



Length of body 16. 17. 15. 



Length of pronotum 4.2 4.4 3.8 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 8.2 3.2 3.2 



Length of tegmen 4.2 4. 4.2 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal 



fields of tegmen 3.8 3.8 3.3 



Length of cephalic fenmr 8. 6. '- 7.3 



Length of median femur 9.5 10.6 9. 



Length of caudal femur 21.5 22 . 3 19.4 



1- Regenerated limb. The otlior rophalip limb is lirking. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



9 9 

 Brownsville, Tex. 



(Allotype.) (Paratypes.) 



, ■ » 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) .. 18 . 21 . 16 . 



Length of pronotum 5.7 5.6 5.5 



■Greatest width of dorsum of pronotum^^,.. 4.2 4.3 4 . 



Apparent length of tegmen 1.4 1.5 1.4 



Greatest width of entire tegmen 3. 3. 2.5 



Length of cephalic femur 8.4 8.1 8.9 



Length of median femur 10.2 10. 10.4 



Length of caudal femur 24 . 23 . 8 23 . 5 



Length of ovipositor 9.5 9.3 9. 



In size the type represents what is the average of the entire male 

 paratypic series, practically none but the extremes measured above 

 varying appreciably from the more general size. The allotype is in 

 most measurements the maximum extreme for the female sex, from 

 which the series grades rather evenly to the minimum measurements 

 given for that sex. The length of the body is an uncertain measure- 

 ment, as it depends so largely on the stuffing of the abdomen, and, 

 while the present series was stuffed in its entirety by the authors, 

 -a certain amount of variation in bulk is impossible to prevent. The 

 length of the cephalic femora, particularly in the female sex, shows 

 appreciable variation — in females of approximately the same bulk 

 measuring 7.8 and 9.2 mm. This variation is also noticed in the 

 median femora, while the tibiae of the respective limbs vary propor- 

 tionately. Such variation in the length of the caudal femora as is 

 evident is of a far less degree and not disproportionate to the general 

 bulk variation. The tegmina of the male show some variation in 

 .length, never being shorter than the pronotal length, but occasionally 

 surpassing the same. 



Color Xotes — The general pattern of the male sex consists of a 

 dorsal shade covering the dorsum of the head, disk of the pronotum; 

 another covering the tegmina (aside from the marginal field and 

 region of the principal veins) ; a paler lateral color involving the face, 

 sides of head, lateral lobes of the pronotum, and sides of the abdomen; 

 an area covering the dorsal surface of the abdomen either concolorous 

 with or darker than the dorsal shade of head, pronotum and tegmina, 

 and a pair of pale, narrow postocular lines extending along the angle 



" Owing to the poor definition of the dorsum of the pi'onotum in the female, 

 this measurement is of less value than in the male, but it is here given to cover 

 .relatively the same portion as that measured in the other sex. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [Jan.,. 



of the tegmina, involving the whole marginal field of the tegmina and 

 dividing the dorsal and lateral colors of the abdomen. The female 

 sex is so unicolorous that it has no pattern distinctive enough to 

 describe. The color of the dorsum of the head, pronotum, discoidal 

 and anal fields of the tegmina and the limbs of the male ranges from 

 yellowish oil green to cosse green/^ occasionally lined along the 

 internal margin of the pale lateral pronotal lines with maroon, and in 

 all thickly and more or less regularly sprinkled with very minute 

 points or stipples of the same color. Discoidal and anal fields of the 

 male tegmina varying from lettuce green to serpentine green; ^•' 

 area of the principal veins {i.e., humeral trunk) more or less broadly 

 and strongly lined with a shade varying from morocco red to maroon. 

 Paired pale lines in the male (also covering the marginal field of the 

 tegmina) varying from cream-white to light green-yellow, less 

 prominent on the abdomen in some specimens than in others. Dorsal 

 color of the abdomen sometimes the same as the dorsal color of the 

 pronotum, again as dark as the major portion of the tegmina, and 

 in a fair proportion ranging through pompeian red to madder brow^l. 

 such brownish tones being due to a great increase in number of the 

 overlying stipple points of those colors, similar to the •condition found 

 on the dorsum of the pronotum. These points are also present in 

 individuals having an apparently uniform greenish dorsal tone on 

 the abdomen, but they are so few that they do not affect the general 

 shade. Lateral color in the male ranging from javel green to cosse 

 green, sulphine yellow in a single individual.^*' General color of 

 female varying from uniform lettuce green to snuff brown dorsad, 

 all finely and more or less thickly stippled with garnet bro^vn to 

 maroon (one specimen), paling into court gray on the sides of head, 

 pronotum, and pleura; tegmina of the dorsal color with marginal 

 field pale and a line of maroon present on the principal veins. Pale 

 lines indicated but weakly in a few specimens on head and pronotunv 

 not present on abdomen. Limbs unicolorous with the dorsum of 

 the pronotum in both sexes. Eyes in both sexes varying from russet 

 brown to hazel, crossed obliquely dorsad of the middle by a fine line 

 of chestnut brown, which touches the caudal margin of the eye at 

 the ventral margin of the pale postocular line. Antennae in both 



^* Frequently the pronotum is in part paler than these shades, but this is 

 apparently due to the stuffing and drying, so that no import anee is fiere attached 

 to such fluctuation in the color of the dorsum of the pronotum. 



'* The latter in but one specimen, the remainder between lettuce green and 

 spinach green. 



'* The latter shade may be due to drying, as it is found in but a single specimea 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



sexes ranging from olive ochre to lime green, the proximal joints 

 more or less speckled with maroon. Tibial spines tipped with 

 black. Ovipositor of the general color tone and usually of the dorsal 

 shade, finely stippled with garnet brown and dorsal margin more or 

 less washed with same. 



Distribution. — The present species is known only from three locali- 

 ties in the arid tropical Tamaulipan region of southern Texas, 

 Bro\vnsville, Piper Plantation (along the Rio Grande about ten 

 miles southeast by east of Brownsville), and Lyford (in the same 

 county about forty-seven miles north of Brownsville). It doubtless 

 ranges over an adjacent section of Mexico. 



Biological Notes. — At BrowTisville and Piper Plantation the 

 present species was scarce and local, occurring in tangles of Clematis 

 (probably C. reticulata) growing over the ground and on low mesquite 

 and huisache. Individuals, when disturbed, endeavored to hop, 

 crawl, or drop into recesses of these vines, where they are so well 

 protected by their coloration that beating was the best method of 

 securing them. At Lyford the single specimen was taken with 

 D. gladiator in a weedy field wiiich had a low cover of sand spur 

 {Cenchrus sp.) and grasses. This species was found to be by far the 

 least active of any of the forms of the genus taken by the authors. 



Morphological Notes. — In the female sex the interspace between 

 the tegmina varies from one extreme, in wliich the sutural margins 

 are touching, to one in which the space separating them is nearly 

 half of the width of a single tegmen. 



Remarks. — The possibility of confounding this very peculiar species 

 with any other form of the genus is very remote. It is interesting 

 that in a region which has been examined as often as the Brownsville 

 section, as striking a species as this should have been overlooked, for 

 which the character of its habitat is probably responsible. 



Specimens Examined. — -43; 17 males, 9 females, 17 nymphs. 



Brownsville, Cameron County, Tex.; July 31-August 5, 1912; 

 (H.); 16 cT, 9 9 (Type, allotype, paratypes), 6 cf nymphs, 9 9 

 nymphs. 



Piper Plantation, near Brownsville, Cameron County, Tex.; 

 August 3, 1912; (R. & H.); 2 9 nymphs. 



Lyford, Cameron County, Tex. ; August 6-7, 1912 ; (R. & H.) ; 1 cf - 



Dichopetala castanea n. sp. 



1912. Dichopetala brerihaslata Hunter, Pratt and Mitchell (not of Morse), 

 Bull., 113, Bureau of Entom., U. S. Dept. of Agr., p. 50. (Part) [Corpus 

 Christi and Maverick County, Texas.] 



This species differs from its nearest ally — D. hrevihastata Morse — in 




m 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



the broad, hardly produced subgenital plate of the male, in the more 

 spiniform and strongly mcurved distal portion of the male cercus, 

 in the slightly deeper lateral lobes of the pronotum in both sexes, 

 in the broader and more approximate tegmina of the female, in the 

 less tapering ovipositor, which has the ventral margin straighter, 

 snd in the broader, more ovate, and less elliptical eye. 



Type: cf ; Lagmia del Gato, three miles west of Sam Fordyce, 

 Hidalgo County, Texas. Elevation 175-200 feet. August 6, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form moderately slender; 

 surface subglabrous. Head with the occiput not elevated dorsad 

 of the level of the pronotum, gently arcuate; fastigium compressed, 



Fig. 15. — Dichopetala castanea n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



lamellate, barely touching the frontal fastigiu^n; eyes prominent, 

 ovate, the greatest width contained less than one and one-half times 

 in the length, the length of the eye contained about one and one-third 

 times in the infra-ocular length of the gense; face moderately flat- 

 tened; antennae over three and one-half times as long as the body, 

 filiform. Pronotum with the dorsum subdeplanate, strongly nar- 

 rowed mesaS, the margins of the same regularly converging caudad 

 from the cephalic margin and from the middle somewhat more strongly 

 diverging toward the caudal margin, the median width not more 

 than half that at the caudal margin, the width of the latter equal to 

 slightly more than half of the length of the disk, cephalic and caudal 



margins of the disk subtruncate, 



transverse broad V-shaped sulcus 



placed slightly caudad of the middle, 



caudad of which sulcus there is 



laterad on the disk slight indication 



Figs. 16 and 17.— Outline of left of another sulcus; lateral lobes with 



cercus of males (types) of Dichope- ^]^^ greatest depth contained nearlv 



lala cadnnea (16) and D. brevinas- . . \ , ,. ' 



Ma (17). (X 10.) twice m the dorsal length of the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



saine, ventro-cephalic angle subrectangulate, ventral margin moder- 

 ately sinuato-emarginate cephalad, ventro-caudal angle broadly 

 rounded, caudal margin oblique-truncate, transverse sulcus well im- 

 pressed dorsad, lateral shoulders slightly indicated in the humeral 

 region. Tegmina very slightly shorter than the dorsal length of the 

 pronotum, the distal extremity slightly surpassing the margin of the 

 proximal abdominal segment, costal margin moderately arcuate, distal 

 margin truncato-arcuate, the lateral angle rounded, sutural margin 

 rotundato-rectangulate at the apex of the stridulating vein, the 

 margin obliquely subtruncate thence to the distal extremity; mar- 

 ginal field narrow, discoidal field expanding from the middle of 

 the tegmen, with a number of irregular areas, stridulating vein nearly 

 transverse, gently arcuate caudad, speculum proper with the greatest 

 length exceeding the greatest width. Abdomen subfusiform; disto- 

 dorsal abdominal segment with the median impressed area transverse 

 and arcuate ; supra-anal plate trigonal with a broad median V-shaped 

 emargination; cerci with the proximal portion straight, robust, 

 cylindrical, distal portion tapering, gently curving mesad, the distal 

 fourth straight, spiniform and at a right angle to the thickened 

 proximal portion, tooth placed at the junction of the proximal portion 

 and the tapering section, on the dorsal section of the cercus toward 

 the external face, moderately acute, subdepressed, little divergent 

 dorsad from the general plane of 

 the cercus, not more than a third 

 the length of the distal half of 

 the main cereal shaft; subgenital 



plate broad, transverse, the great- „. ,^ , ,« ^ .i- 



'■ ... . , . , ,. Figs. IS aad 19. — Outline of subgen- 



est width considerably exceeding ital plate of males (types) of Dichope- 



the length of the plate, lateral Ma castanea (18) and D.brcuihastala 



margins straight convergent in 



the proximal two-thirds of their length, thence parallel for a very 

 short distance, the width of the subequal section about half that 

 of the greatest width of the proximal section, distal margin with a 

 V-shaped emargination mesad, this occupying slightly more than a 

 quarter of the median length of the plate, laterad of this emargination 

 the distal margin is nearly truncate, thus forming lateral angles slightly 

 more acute than a rectangle, a moderately distinct median carina 

 present on the ventral surface of the plate. Cephalic femora subequal 

 in length to the head, pronotum and tegmina, very slender; cephalic 

 tibise distinctly exceeding the femora in length, foramina small, 

 elliptical. Median femora slightly longer than the cephalic femora; 

 7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



median tibiae nearly half again as long as the femora. Caudal 

 femora about a third again as long as the body, moderately inflated 

 in the proximal three-fifths, genicular lobes unispinose; caudal 

 tibiae surpassing the femora by about the length of the pronotum. 



Allotype: 9 ; Laguna del Gato, three miles west of Sam Fordyce, 

 Hidalgo County, Texas. Elevation 175-200 feet. August 6, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Characters not specifically mentioned are 

 not markedly different from the male sex. 



Size medium; form moderately robust. Pronotum much less 

 compressed, the median width of the disk of the pronotum contained 

 less than three times in the length of the same. Tegmina much 

 broader than the apparent length, apices hardly surpassing the 

 margin of the metanotum, the distal margin rotundato-truncate, the 

 interspace between the tegmina not more than half the width of 

 a single tegmen; venation irregular. Cerci very short, conoid; 

 ovipositor nearly equal to the length of the head and pronotum 

 together, tapering in the proximal two-thirds, the proximal 

 depth slightly more than a third of the length, moderately 



arcuate, ventral margin appreci- 

 ably flattened for a portion of 

 its length, dorsal margin more 

 arcuate distad than proximad, 

 apical margins proper slightly 

 more acute than a rectangle, 

 armed on the distal third of the 



Figs. 20 and 21. -Outline of .ovipositor tlorsal margin with seven erect 



of females (allotypes) of Dichopetala teeth, increasing in length distad, 

 castanea (20) Sind D . brevihastata {21) . , , • j. i . 



(X i ) ventral margm strongly arcuate 



distad, armed with nine spines, 

 the proximal several of which are smaller than the others, the 

 distal ones distinctly recurved; subgenital plate brief, strongly 

 transverse, distal margin obtusely brace-shaped (■ — . — •) emarginate. 

 Cephalic femora slightly exceeding the combined length of the head, 

 pronotum and tegmina, slightly more robust than in the male. 

 Median femora as robust as the cephalic pair. Caudal femora a 

 fourth again as long as the body (exclusive of the ovipositor) , appre- 

 ciably more robust than in the male, the proximal dilation slightly 

 more extensive. 



Paratypic Series. — A paratypic series of five males and eight females 

 from Laguna del Gato has been selected, the measurements of the 

 same being given below. 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Laguna del Gato, Tex. 



(Type.) (Paratypes.) 



Length of body 17.7 20. 18. 17.3 



Length of pronotum • 4.2 4.5 4.5 4.3 



Greatest width of dorsum of 



pronotum 2.6 3. 2.3 "2.5 



Length of tegmen 3.9 4. 4. 4. 



Greatest width of discoidal 



and anal fields of tegmen 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.3 



Length of cephalic femur 9.2 9.7 9.5 8.5 



Length of median femur 9.8 10.8 10. 9.2 



Length of caudal femur 20. 22. 22. 19.6 



9 9 

 Laguna del Gato, Tex. 



(Allotype.; (Paratype.s.) 



^ —A . ^ 



Length of body (exclusive of 



ovipositor) 18.7 16.8 18.5 19. 



Length of pronotum 5. 4.8 5.1 5.2 



Greatest width of dorsum of 



pronotum 3.6 3. 3. 3.2 



Apparent length of teg-men 1.3 1.6 1.4 1.5 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.7 2.9 2.4 2.3 



Length of cephalic femur 8.6 8. 8.2 8.2 



Length of median femur 9.2 8.9 9. 9. 



Length of caudal femur 21.5 20. 21. 21.2 



Length of ovipositor 7.2 7.5 7.1 7.5 



Measurements of extreme individuals. 



Southwest Victoria, Southwest Tamo . 



Texas. Tamaulipas, Texas. Vera 



(Schaupp) Mex. (Schaupp) Cruz, 



[Hebard [Hebard [Hebard Mex. 



Coll.] Coll.] Coll.] (Bishop) 



[U.S.N.M.] 



Length.of body 15. 23.5 16.8 21. 



Length of pronotum 4. 4.7 4.9 6.1 



Greatest caudal width of 



dorsum of pronotum 2.6 3.2 3. 4.1 



Length of tegmen 3. 3.4 1.2 " 2.7 



Greatest width of discoidal 

 and anal fields of (d^), or 



entirewidthof (9)tegmen. 3. 3.8 2.2 2.8 



Length of cephalic femur 7.3 9. 7.5 11. 



Length of median femur 8, 10. 8,3 12.9 



Length of caudal femur 18. 21.5 20. 29. 



Length of ovipositor 6.7 10. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The variation in size appears to be purely individual aside from the 

 possible presence of a larger race at the southern extreme of the 

 range of the species. The individuals from Victoria, Tamaulipas, 

 are of peculiar interest in this connection, the pronotum in both 

 sexes being shorter and broader than in the other specimens of the 

 species, while the legs are somewhat thicker and more robust than in 

 by far the greater portion of the Texas series, but their length pro- 

 portions are matched in other individuals. The tegmina in the 

 Victoria male are shorter and broader than in any other individual 

 of the same sex seen, the distal portion being much less produced 

 with the margin decidedly truncate. The size of the tegmina is seen 

 to vary somewhat in the female sex, the width of the interspace 

 between the two also fluctuating, but the latter is never wide enough 

 to cause any difficulty in determining the species. The Tamos 

 female is unique in its great dimensions, aside from which it is per- 

 fectly typical of the species. We doubtless have here parallelism 

 to the condition of sporadic giantism found in the next species, under 

 which the matter is discussed. It is possible that in this case the 

 variation is geographic, but our material from Mexico is too meager 

 to make any definite assertions. 



Color Notes. — The following color notes are all based on stuffed 

 specimens, all of which, with the exception of two individuals, were 

 prepared by the authors and have retained in practically its entirety 

 the original coloration. ^^ 



The general pattern of the male has the dorsum of the head, 

 pronotum, and abdomen dark and generally uniform, paired pale 

 lines extending from the caudal margin of the eye, marking the 

 boundaries of the disk of the pronotum, involving the whole marginal 

 field of the tegmina and present as broader lateral bars on the abdo- 

 men. The abdominal segments have pale beaded margins caudad, 

 these rarely outlined proximad with blackish. In the male the 

 general color of the venter and of the lateral aspects of the pronotum, 

 pleura, al^domen and proximal portions of the femora vary from 

 honey yellow to parrot green in shade and also considerably in 

 intensity. The color of the dorsum of the head, pronotum, and 

 abdomen in the same sex ranges from clear mahogany red through 

 argus brown to nearly clear pyrite yellow. This color is usually 



1" Three males and eight females listed in the summary of specimens have not 

 been stuffed and are disregarded in the remarks given above. They are all 

 much browner than any of the freshly prepared individuals collected by the 

 authors and in three cases have the color pattern much intensified on the abdomen. 




1914. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



purest on the disk of the pronotum, on the dorsum of the abdomen 

 being solid, bounded by the pale marginal lines on the segments, 

 frequently l)isected by an adventitious pale medio-longitudinal line 

 or divided by a broad median area of the lateral color and in the 

 extreme condition only present laterad in the neighborhood of the 

 pale lines. Head of the male with the cephalic and lateral aspects 

 slightly paler than the lateral color, varying from baryta yellow to 

 chalcedony yellow, an infra-ocular bar of Indian red frequently 

 present, rarely observed, and then but faintly, in the paler specimens; 

 eyes varying from light buff to seal brown, this apparently due in 

 part to the drAdng of the insect ; antennae varying from raw sienna to 

 kaiser bro^vn, the proximal joint in greater part of the color of the 

 face. Pronotum of male with the pale lateral lines varying from 

 nearly pure white to bufT yellow in one extreme and viridine yellow 

 in the other, always broader cephalad and caudad than mesad, 

 generally severed once and sometimes twice at the point of greatest 

 constriction; lateral lobes of pronotum with a trace of the dorsal 

 color present cephalad and caudad contiguous to the pale bars. 

 Tegmina of the male with the underlying color varying from bay to 

 maroon, the venation and marginal field similar to the pale lateral 

 bars of the pronotum in color; base of the narrow discoidal field 

 entirely sufTused with weak mahogany red or bright chestnut, the 

 pale veins of the distal portion of the same field sharply contrasted. 

 Disto-dorsal abdominal segment of the male washed with yellow, 

 varying from pale cadmium to mars yellow, the cerci wholly of the 

 same color. Cephalic and median femora of the male with more or 

 less of their length ochraceous-orange, occasionally green without 

 any of the former color; cephalic and median tibiae with green the 

 underlying color, more or less suffused with ochraceous-orange or 

 occasionally (Victoria, Tamaulipas, specimens only) almost wholly 

 blackish, the region of the tympanum almost invariably (but a single 

 exception) touched dorsad with blackish. Caudal femora of male 

 with the proximal three-fifths parrot green'* with a medio-lateral 

 stippled pattern of blackish; distal extremity of femora blackish 

 brown of variable intensity, rarely very weak, remainder of distal 

 two-fifths of the femora varying, with the general tone, from mustard 

 yellow to zinc orange. Caudal tibiae of male with their ventral color 

 agreeing with the yellowish distal portion of the femora, but dorsad 



1* Even in the specimens with honey-yellow lateral aspects (Victoria, Tamauli- 

 pas) the femora are parrot green, which would lead one to the conclusion that 

 green was the natural coloration of the greater portion of the whole insect. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



more or less washed with blackish brown, very strongly and decidedly 

 so in the Victoria, Tamaulipas, pair. The type is of a well-contrasted 

 color form only surpassed in intensity by the Victoria individuals. 



The stuffed Victoria, Tamaulipas, female is practically a color 

 duplicate of the male from that locality, the following comments 

 being based on the remainder of the stuffed females. 



The general pattern of coloration of the females differs from the 

 pattern of the male only in that the pale lateral lines are not indicated 

 on the tegmina and the beaded character of the marginal coloration 

 of the dorsal abdominal segments is less frequent. The lateral and 

 ventral color of the females is, in the stuffed individuals, always 

 green, varying from light yellow-green to parrot green. The dorsal 

 color as indicated in the male is rarely developed at all in the female, 

 and then mostly indicated only on part of the pronotum and extreme 

 lateral sections of the dorsum of the abdomen. A narrow medio- 

 longitudinal line varying from victoria lake to english red is indicated 

 more or less distinctly on a part or all of the pronotum in a portion 

 of the females, w*hile in one specimen the dorsum of the pronotum is 

 weakly suft'used with the last-mentioned color. Head of the female 

 colored as in the opposite sex, but antennae ranging from oil yellow 

 to mars yellow. Pronotum of the female with the lateral lobes 

 colored as in the male; the usual pale lateral lines of the pronotum 

 are subobsolete in about half of the specimens, being indicated on 

 the head in several which have them almost lacking on the pronotum. 

 Tegmina of the female varying from cream white to baryta yellow, 

 the interstices of the dorsal section occasionally slate color, the median 

 section proximad with a variable but always weak narrow line of 

 hay's russet. Abdomen of the female with the lateral pale lines 

 washed with the lateral color as in the male, occasionally very weak, 

 sometimes relatively broad and frequently with the portion on each 

 individual segment roughly elongate trigonal. Ovipositor passing 

 from courge green at the base to ivy green at the apex, w^ashed along 

 the dorsal margin with the color of the median line of the dorsum of 

 the pronotum when that line is present; teeth of the ovipositor 

 pitch brown. Liml)s of the female varying from a type like that of 

 the majority of the males to one in which they are practically course 

 or light bice green, the pattern of the external face of the caudal 

 femora always, although often very faintly, indicated. The presence 

 of the blackish near the tymioanum of the cephalic til)iie is exceptional 

 and not the rule in the female. 



The allotype is about midway between the extremes here de- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



scribed, having a short median line on the pronotum, very weak 

 incomplete pale pronotal lines and practically uniform limbs, without 

 blackish near the tympanum of the cephalic tibiae. 



The Victoria, Tamaulipas, individuals stand apart from the other 

 specimens, having an intensified pattern surpassing in contrast 

 anything else belonging to the species seen by us. Certain structural 

 peculiarities may compel the separation of these, as a distinct race, 

 at a later date when more Mexican material is accessible, so that the 

 following comments do not include them. The female from Maverick 

 County has a ver}- intensive coloration, with the dorsum of the 

 pronotum and lateral portions of the dorsum of the abdomen suffused 

 with garnet brown. The Laguna del Gato series is as a rule weaker 

 in color contrasts than Uvalde, Del Rio and Mission individuals of 

 both sexes, the type alone excepted. San Antonio specimens stand 

 about intermediate in color intensity. That color is of little geo- 

 graphic significance is shown by the fact that the two lots taken 

 closest together (about eighteen miles apart), i.e., Laguna del Gato 

 and Mission, are nearly as widely divergent as any examined. 



Distribution. — The range of this species extends from an undeter- 

 mined point on the Pecos River, probably near the New Mexican 

 line,^^ east to the vicinity of Corpus Christi and south as far as 

 Tamos, Vera Cruz. Mexico. Aside from the uncertain Pecos record 

 and that from Tamos, the range of the species is approximately 

 co-extensive wth the area called the Rio Grande Plain by Bray.^ 

 While the Pecos locality is more elevated, the highest points at which 

 we have noted the species (Del Rio and Uvalde) are at an elevation 

 of 1,100 feet, while the Corpus Christi and Tamos individuals were 

 taken almost at sea-level. It is probable that the Victoria, Tamauli- 

 pas, specimens were taken at a higher elevation than 1,100 feet, but 

 we have no definite information to this effect, the general region, 

 however, being near the 500 meter (approximately 1,640 feet) con- 

 tour. At Mission the species was taken just below the line of gravel 

 hills, while the Laguna del Gato series was taken in these hills. At 

 Del Rio and Uvalde it occurred on the rolling plateau country, while 



'9 The data with this specimen is "Pecos, Aug. 18." As the specimen came 

 to 8cudder through Uhler, we can, judging by analog}' with other specimens 

 similar!}- credited by Scudder, probably consider it one of Capt. Pope's collecting. 

 Capt. Pope's camps along the Pecos reached from above the New Mexican line 

 to considerably below the same, but the dates were all in March. The specimen 

 is in poor shape, having been dried from a liquid preservative. It is possible, 

 however, that the specimen was taken much later near the present town of 



^Botan. Gazette, XXXII, p. 116, fig. 6. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



at San Antonio it was taken in the hilly country immediately north 

 of the city. Tamos, the southern limit of the species, is near Tampico, 

 on the Rio Panuco, in the extreme northern part of Vera Cruz. 



Biological Notes. — At Laguna del Gato the present species was 

 taken on a low, very green rhamnaceous shrub (probably Condalia 

 obovata), where it was common locally. At Mission five individuals 

 were heard at night in bushes, several as much as five feet from the 

 ground. At San Antonio the species was very local, not at all 

 common and hard to find in a low, stout, green rhamnaceous bush. 

 On the hill slopes at Uvalde it occurred on the low Acacia berlan- 

 landieri, which there replaced the ubiquitous mesquite, while at the 

 foot of the hills it was taken on tall rank green weeds. On the 

 Del Rio hills, which were clothed with low Acacia, numerous other 

 thorny bushes, occasional arborescent yuccas, and several species of 

 Opuntia, the present species was secured in catclaw {Mimosa sp.) 

 and other thorny bushes. The specimens taken by Pratt at San 

 Antonio were from Opuntia lindheimeri, while at Corpus Christi and 

 in Maverick County it occurred on plants of the same genus. 



Synonymy. — The erroneous determination of the species as hrevi- 

 hastata by Hunter, Pratt and Mitchell, we have corrected by an ex- 

 amination of the original material. 



Remarks. — -The most striking diagnostic characters of this species 

 are, the abbreviate subgenital plate of the male and the combination 

 of a short ovipositor and the narrow interspace between the tegmina 

 in the female. The latter space never equals the width, and rarely 

 as much as half the width, of a single tegmen. The male subgenital 

 plate is seen, when compared with that of hrevihastata, to be broader, 

 not at all produced mesad, except that the plate is in general narrowed 

 in that direction, the distal margin is V-emarginate mesad with 

 slight subtruncate sections laterad, which are flanked at the angles 

 with very short blunt subobsolete tubercles. The cercus has the 

 extremity more acute than in hrevihastata, also more elongate, with 

 the character of the median tooth slightly different. The bvipositor 

 has the ventral margin straighter, the proximal depth less in propor- 

 tion to that of the apex and the apex slightly more acute. The more 

 ovate eye is immediately apparent on comparison. 



Specimens Examined. — 54; 21 males, 33 females. 



Pecos. August 18, 1 9 , [Scudder Coll.]. 



Del Rio, Valverde Co., Texas, elev. 900-1,100 feet, August 22-23, 

 1912, (R. andH.), 3 d^, 1 9. 



Uvalde, Uvalde Co., Texas, elev. 1,000-1,100 feet, August 21-22, 

 1912, (R. and H.), 3 d" ; last week of July, 1 d", [Scudder Coll.]. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 10.> 



San Antonio, Bexar Co., Texas, August 15-16, 1912, (R. and H.), 

 2 cf, 5 9 ; October 29, 1905, and June 16, 1908, (F. C. Pratt; on 

 Opuntia lindheimeri) , 3 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Southwest Texas, November, 1884, (Schaupp), 1 cf , 3 9 , [Hebard 

 Coll.]. 



Maverick Co., Texas, May 15, 1906, (J. D. Mitchell; on Opuntia)^ 

 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Carrizo Springs, Dimmit Co., Texas, June, 1885, May, 1886^ 

 (A. Wadgymar), 1 c^, 1 9 , [Hebard Coll.]. 



« Corpus Christi, Nueces Co., Texas, October 20, 1905, (F. C. Pratt), 

 1 cf , 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Ringgold Barracks (now Rio Grande City), Starr Co., Texas,. 

 (Schott), 1 d^, [Scudder Coll.]. 



Laguna del Gato, Hidalgo Co., Texas, elev. 175-200 feet, August 6,^ 

 1912, (R. and H.), 6 cf , 9 9 • Type, allotype and paratypes. 



Mission, Hidalgo Co., Texas, elev. 138 feet, August 5-6, 1912, 

 (R. and H.), 2 cT, 3 9. 



Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico, July, 1 cf, 1 9, [Hebard Coll.]; 

 December 10, 1909, (F. C. Bishop), 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Tamos, Vera Cruz, Mexico, December 1, 1909, (F. C. Bishop),. 

 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Dichopetala brevihastata Morae. 



1902. Dichopetala emarginata Scudder and Cockerell (not of Brunner,^ 



1878), Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. .51. [Mesilla Park, New Mexico.| 

 1902. Dichopetala brevicauda Scudder (not Dichopetala hrevicauda Scudder, 



1900), Ibid., p. .51, pi. IV, fig. 1. [Riley's Ranch, Mesilla Valley, New 



Mexico; Mesilla Park, New Mexico; Mexico.] 

 1902. Dichopetala brevihadata Morse, Psyche, IX, p. 381. (To replace- 



D. hrevicauda Scudder, 1902.) 

 1907. Dichopetala brevihastata Rehn, Proc. Acad'. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, 



p. 56. [Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mts., Arizona.] 

 1907. Dichopetala Icevis Rehn, Ibid., p. 56, fig. 10. [Carr Canyon, Huachuca 



Mts., Arizona.] 

 1909. Dichopetala brevihastata Rehn and Hebard, Ibid., 1909, p. 167. 



[Mouth of Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mts., New Mexico.] 



This species needs comparison with no form of the genus except 

 castanea, under. which species the important differential characters 

 are given. 



Types: 1 d", 2 9 . Riley's Ranch, Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, 

 August 16 (Cockerell) ; College campus, Mesilla Park, New Mexico,, 

 on Atriplex canescens, August 2 (nee 7), (Cockerell); Mesilla Park,. 

 New Mexico, September 11 (Cockerell). 



Single Type here Designated : cf ; College campus, Mesilla Park, 

 Donna Ana County, New Mexico. August 2, 1898. (Cockerell; on 

 Atriplex canescens.) [Scudder Collection.] 




106 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Description of Type. — Size medium;-^ form moderately slender; 

 T?urface subglabrous. Head with the greatest width of the eye 

 contained more than one and one-half times in the length of the 

 same; antennae- (in perfect individuals) five times the length of the 

 body. Pronotum with the caudal section of the same equal 

 in width to about two-thirds the length of the disk, transverse 

 V-shaped sulcus placed on the middle of the disk; lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum with the greatest depth contained slightly more than one 

 and one-half times in the dorsal length of the same, cephalic margin 

 of the lateral lobes slightly arcuate, ventro-caudal angle and caudal 

 margin of the lobes moderately arcuate. Tegmina slightly longer 

 than the dorsal length of the pronotum, distal margin obliquely 

 arcuato-truncate, the lateral angle moderately rounded; stridulating 

 vein slightly oblique. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment with a 

 recurved trigonal production which is very deeply V-shaped emar- 



Fig. 22. — Dichopetala brevihastata Morse. Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



ginate mesad, laterad of which this production is rounded; supra-anal 

 plate trigonal with the apex narrowly truncate; cerci as in castanea 

 in the form of the proximal portion and general curve of the distal 

 section, median tooth slightly less divergent dorsad from the main 

 body of the cercus, distal extremity of the cerci moderately produced, 

 caniniform, l)ut not spiniform; subgenital plate longer than the proxi- 

 mal width, lateral margins moderately rect-convergent for the 

 greater portion of their length, thence briefly subparallel, the width 

 of the subequal portion about half of the broad proximal portion, 

 distal margin wholly V-emarginate, only narrowly rounded lobes re- 

 maining laterad, a very weak medio-longitudinal carina present ven- 

 trad. Cephalic femora proportionately as in castanea. but slightly 

 slenderer. Median femora very slender. Caudal limbs as in castanea. 

 Allotype here Selected : 9 ; Riley's Ranch, Mesilla Valley, Donna 



^' On account of the close relat ionship of this species to caslnnea, only characters 

 :<howing some difference from those of the latter species are here mentioned. 

 2- Imperfect in type. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Ana County, New Mexico. August 16, 1898. (Cockerell.) [Scud- 

 der Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Characters not specifically mentioned 

 are not markedly different from those of the male sgk or of the female 

 of the closely allied D. castanea. Pronotum with the whole form 

 slightly more compressed than in castanea. Tegmina small, little 

 l^roader than the apparent length of the same, reaching the caudal 

 margin of the metanotum, distal margin broadly rotundato-rectan- 

 gulate, the interspace between the tegmina subequal to the width of a 

 single tegmen. Ovipositor slightly surpassing the length of the 

 head and pronotum together, considerably arcuate, proximal depth 

 distinctly less than a third of the length of the ovipositor, ventral 

 margin moderately arcuate, not at all flattened, dorsal margin very 

 slightly more arcuate clistad than proximad, apical margin proper 

 acute-angulate, armed on the distal third of the dorsal margin with 

 seven teeth, ventral margin considerably arcuate distad, armed with 

 nine spines, those of both margins similar to those found in castanea; 

 subgenital plate with the lateral angles produced into distinct spini- 

 iorm lobes equal in length to the main depth of the plate, median 

 •emargination of the plate much as in castanea. Cephalic femora 

 slightly inferior to the combined length of the head, pronotum and 

 tegmen. Caudal femora slightly longer than the body, appreciably 

 weaker than in castanea. 



Paratypic Series. — We have examined all three specimens on which 

 Scudder based the species, one being selected as the single type, 

 another as the allotype, the third (Mesilla Park, September 11, 

 'Cockerell) remaining as a paratype. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Mesilla Park, Sycamore Canyon, Average of three; 

 N. M. (Type). Pima Co., Ariz. Tmnamoc Hill, 



Pima Co., Ariz. 



Length of bodv : 15.5^3 14.8 13. (12.5-13.6) 



Length of pronotum 4.3 4. 3.9 ( 3.8- 4. ) 



'Greatest caudal width of 



disk of pronotum 3. 2.7 2.5(2.2-3.) 



Length of tegmen 4.4 4.2 3.8(3.5-4.1) 



•Greatest width of discoidal 

 and anal fields of teg- 

 men 3.5 3.1 2.9(2.9-3.) 



Length of cephalic femur 9.2 10. 8.3(7.7-9.2) 



Length of median femur 10.3 10.8 9. ( 8. -10. ) 



Length of caudal femur 21.3 22.8 19.1(17.-21.3) 



2' Scudder's original measurements of this specimen are: body, 14; pronotuni, 

 43.7;2;cephalic femur, 11; caudal femur, 21. The discrepancy in body length is 




108 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan.;, 



Carr Canyon, 



Cochise Co., 



Ariz. 



Length of body *• 13. 



Length of pronotum 3 . 9 



Greatest caudal width of 

 disk of pronotum 2.6 



Length of tegmen 4. 



Greatest width of discod- 

 dal and anal fields of 

 tegmen 3. 1 



Length of cephalic femur . 9 . 



Length of median femur... 9 . 8 



Length of caudal femur 20.3 



15 

 3 



2 

 4 



Average of six; 

 Marathon, Brews- 

 ter Co., Tex. 



.8(13.7-17.7) 

 .8( 3.6- 4. ) 



.5( 2.5- 2.6) 

 .1 ( 3.9- 4.4) 



Average of six; 

 Laguna del Gato, 

 Hidalgo Co., Tex. 



16.3(13.8-18. ) 

 4. ( 3.9- 4.2.) 



2.5( 2.3- 2.7) 

 4. ( 3.9- 4.5) 



3. ( 2.9- 3.2) 2.8 ( 2.7- 3. > 



8.9( 8.5- 9.5) 9.5( 9.1- 9.9> 



9.4( 9. -10.1) 9.9( 9.1-10.3) 



19.9(19.3-20.5) 21. (19.9-22.2) 



Average of three; 

 Montelovez, Coahuila^ 

 Mex. 



Length of body 14 .8(12. 8-16 . 3> 



Length of pronotum 4.3 ( 4. - 4.7) 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum 2.8(2.7-2. 9) 



Length of tegmen 3 . 7 ( 3.4- 4 . 2> 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal fields of 



tegmen 3 . 1 ( 



Length of cephalic femur 9.6 ( 8.9 



Length of median femur 10.6 ( 9.8 



- 3 

 -10 

 -11 



3) 



) 

 > 



Length of caudal femur 22.5(21. -23.5) 



9 9 

 Riley's 

 Ranch, Mesilla Park, 



New Mex. New Mex. 



(Allotype.) (Paratype.) 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 20.5 18.3 



Length of pronotum : 5. 6.4 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3 . 3.9 



Apparent length of tegmen 1.5 1.4 



Greatest width of tegmen 2. 2.1 



Length of cephalic femur 8. 9. 



Length of median femur 8.5 10.5 



Length of caudal femur 21.5 24. 



Length of ovipositor 8.2 8.8 



probably due to the same being taken from different points, that of the cephalie 

 femur on account of his measurement including the coxa, but the pronotal 

 difference is incomprehensible to us. The only explanation which seems at all 

 likely is that the length was taken along the lateral angles of the disk instead of 

 along the median line, as we are accustomed to take the latter measurement ta 

 get the maximum. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



Length of body (exclusive of 

 ovipositor) 



Length of pronotum 



•Greatest dorsal width of pro- 

 notum 



Apparent length of tegmen 



Greatest width of tegmen 



Length of cephalic femur 



Length of median femur 



Length of caudal femur 



Length of ovipositor 



Average of three; 



Sycamore Canyon, 



Pima Co., Ariz. 



9 9 



20.7(20. 

 5.2( 5. 



-21.5) 



- 5.5) 



3.1( 3. - 3.2) 

 1.2( 1. - 1.3) 

 2. ( 1.8- 2.2) 

 8.7( 8.5- 8.9) 

 9.9 ( 9.7-10. ) 

 23. (21.9-23.7) 

 8.8( 8.7- 9. ) 



Average of three; 

 Tumamoc Hill, 

 Pima Co., Ariz. 



21.4(20.7-22.7) 

 5.3( 5.1- 5.5) 



3.1( 3. - 3.2) 

 1.2( 1. - 1.6) 

 2.2( 2.1- 2.6) 

 9. ( 8.8- 9.3) 

 9.6( 9.2-10. ) 

 23.3(23. -24.1) 

 8.6( 8.5- 8.9) 



9 9 

 Average of six ; 

 Marathon, Brewster 

 Co., Tex. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 20.2 



Length of pronotum 5 . 3 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3 . 2 



Apparent length of tegmen : 1.2 



Greatest width of tegmen .-. 2 . 1 



Length of cephahc femur 8.9 



Length of median femur 8.9 



Length of caudal femur 22.8 



Length of ovipositor 8 . 7 



17.8 



5. - 



3.1- 



1.1- 



2. - 



8. - 



8. - 

 21.9 24 



7.8- 9 



22. 

 5.8 

 3.5 

 1.5 

 2.2 

 9.7 

 9.7 



Uvalde, . Beeville, 



Uvalde Co., Bee Co., 



Tex. Tex. 



Length of body 21.9 19 . 



Length of pronotum 6. 5.4 



'Greatest dorsal width of pro- 

 notum 3.7 3 . 



Apparent length of tegmen 1.2 1.7 



•Greatest width of tegmen 2.5 2. 



Length of cephalic femur 10 . 4 9 . 



Length of median femur 12. 10. 



Length of caudal femur 26.7 23. 



Length of ovipositor 9. 8.5 



9 9 



Gregory, San Laredo, 

 Patricio Co., Webb Co 

 Tex. 



20. 

 5. 



Tex. 

 18.7 



3.5 



1. 



2. 



9.1 

 10.3 

 22.8 



8.5 



5, 



3.5 

 1.4 

 1.9 



8.2 



9.2 



21.2 



7.6 



Average of six; 

 Laguna del Gato, 

 Hidalgo Co., Tex. 



Length of body 20 .5(18. 5-23 . ) 



Length of pronotum 5 . 6 ( 5 . - 6 . ) 



♦Greatest dorsal width of pro- 

 notum 3.4(3.3-3.6) 



9 9 



Average of three; 



Montelovez, 

 Coahuila, Mex. 



18.1 (15.3-21. ) 

 5.8( 5.2- 6.2) 



3.5( 3.2- 3.8) 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



r 



9 9 



Average of six ; Average of three ; 



Laguna del Gato, Montelovez, 



Hidalgo Co., Tex. Coahuila, Mex. 



Apparent length of teginen . 1.2(1.1-1.5) 1 . 4 ( .8-1.8) 



Greatest width of teginen 2.2(2.1-2.3) 2.4(2. -2.7) 



Length of cephalic femur 9. (8.7-9.3) 9.4(8.8-10.) 



Length of median femur 10.2.( 9.8-11. ) 10.3 ( 8.7-11.2) 



Length of caudal femur 23 . 3 (22 . 4-24 .7) 24 . 6 (23 . 3-26 . 5) 



Length of ovipositor 8.2(7.7-8.7) 9.1(8.6-9.8) 



9 9 



Average of four; 



Jaral, Coahuila, Mex, 



Length of body 20.8 (20. -21.5) 



Length of pronotum : 5-3 ( 5.2- 5.8) 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3.3 ( 3.2- 3.5) 



Apparent length of tegTiien 1. ( .8-1.1) 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.3 ( 2. - 2.5) 



Length of cephalic femur .' : 8.4 ( 8.-9. ) 



Length of median femur 9.3 ( 9. -10.1) 



Length of caudal femur 21. 1(20.6-22.2) 



Length of ovipositor 8.1 ( 8. - 8.3) 



From the above measurements it is evident that considerable 

 variation, both geographic and individual, is present in this species. 

 The geographic evidence shows that material from southern Arizona 

 and the elevated portions of western Texas averages smaller than 

 the series from southern Texas (Laguna del Gato) and Coahuila^ 

 Mexico, particularly in the femoral length. The Jaral, Coahuila, 

 females are not, however, of the same general proportions as the 

 Montelovez, Coahuila, specimens of that sex, and, although we are 

 unable to locate the latter locality, possibly altitude may be respon- 

 sible, Jaral being near the four-thousand-foot contour line. It is 

 possible that the character of cover and richness of same may be a 

 factor in determining the amount of geographic variation. The 

 individual variation is considerable in all of the series, ])ut the only 

 really puzzling feature is the occurrence of large females with heavy 

 pronoti. In the Montelovez series these are more numerous (three 

 out of four) than elsewhere, l)ut the paratypic female from Mesilia 

 Park and to a lesser degree the Uvalde specimen are of this type. 

 This point is treated in greater detail under Remarks. 



Color Notesr'^ — The series of this species exhibits a very considerable 



^* The remarks here set forth on color variation have been made entirely from 

 material which has been stuffed or which is considered by the authors to have 

 retained in a great measure the color tones of the living insect. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



amount of variation in intensity of color pattern and color tone. 

 The pattern is considerably recessive and intensive in the male, but 

 in the female the recessive extreme is even greater than in the male, 

 although the intensive is not as decided. The normal pattern as 

 found in both sexes is as follows: a dorsal color involving the occiput, 

 fastigium, dorsum of pronotum, and dorsal surface of the abdomen; 

 pale postocular bars extending to the dorsal base of the cerci; a 

 lateral and ventral color involving face, gense, lateral lobes of prono- 

 tum, pleura, and lateral and ventral aspects of abdomen. In intensive 

 individuals the dorsal color is decidedly darker than the lateral and 

 ventral color, in average individuals in part at least so, in recessive 

 individuals nearly ( cf ) or quite ( 9 ) similar in tone. Strongly 

 intensive individuals generally have the distal extremity of the caudal 

 femora infuscate, but this is not a rule, as occasionally average and 

 rarely moderately recessive individuals have this marking present. 



Male. Dorsal color ranging from ochraceous tawny and sudan 

 brown to claret brown and maroon, solid and uniform on head and 

 pronotum, generally restricted to the lateral sections of the dorsum 

 of the abdomen and in intensive individuals blackish next to the 

 pale lateral lines, the distal margins of the abdominal segments edged 

 with the pale color of the lateral bars, this edging subobsolete in the 

 recessive specimens and narrowing mesad in all, a more or less 

 distinct dark beading characterizing the same margins. Pale lateral 

 bars ranging from cream white to very pale orange yellow always 

 indicated in the male. Lateral and ventral color ranging from cream 

 buff and pinkish *buff to brownish olive, the green complimentary 

 phase ranging to civette green. Face in the extreme green condition 

 with broad paired vertical bars of the pale color of the lateral bars 

 placed ventrad of the eyes and antennal bases, the median pair weakly 

 continued to the clypeus; eyes varying from cameo brown to bay; 

 antennae varying from raw sienna and mars yellow to madder brown, 

 weaker distad. Lateral lobes of the pronotum with a broad margin 

 of the pale lateral color on the ventral and greater portion of the 

 caudal margin, the dorsal section of the lateral lobes washed more or 

 less with the dorsal color; pale paired lines more or less severed at 

 the median sulcus. Tegmina with the marginal field of the color of 

 the pale lines; region of the humeral trunk varying from orange 

 rufous to morocco red; remainder of tegmina with the base color 

 blackish brown, the venation of the same tones as the pale lines. 

 Limbs of the lateral color more or less washed with the dorsal color, 

 in intensive individuals decidedly so, the blackish-brown infuscation 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of the distal extremity of the caudal femora (when present) being 

 generally correlated with a similar infuscation of the dorsal face of 

 the caudal tibiae, the caudal femora, which are infuscate distad, 

 having the adjacent section of the distal half more or less inclined 

 toward tawny or yellow ochre. Pattern of caudal femora always 

 present. 



Female. Dorsal surface varying from being concolorous with 

 the lateral color through buffy citrine to russet, the intensive type 

 having the abdominal coloration largely produced by stipplings. 

 The segments of the abdomen in these contrasted specimens are 

 marked as in the male, but with decided blackish lateral patches 

 which extend more or less toward the median line proximad on each 

 segment. Color of the pale lines (when present) varying from 

 cream white to pale lumiere green and warm buff. Lateral color 

 varying from clay color (in this specimen pale chalcedony yellow on 

 head and pronotum) through course green to hellebore green, the 

 extreme recessive green condition being without distinct pale margins 

 to the lateral lobes and having the whole coloration uniform except 

 for a darkening of the distal margins of the ovipositor. Eyes and 

 antennae as in the male. Limbs varying as in the male, but in the 

 recessive green type uniform with the general coloration and with 

 the paginal pattern weak. Tegmina varying from a type nearly 

 uniform with the lateral color, to one with the costal and distal 

 margins of the color of the pale lines, humeral trunk claret brown 

 and remainder blackish brown with pale venation. Ovipositor 

 varying from uniform with mass color (recessive ^reen and brown 

 types) with margins edged distad with clove brown to blackish brown 

 to elm green washed dorsad with hazel and teeth blackish (extreme 

 intensive type) . 



Geographically considered, the coloration of the species shows 

 plasticity in some localities and constancy in others. The Arizona 

 and New Mexico individuals are all more or less recessive, the larg(> 

 Laguna del Gato series decidedly so, while the Marathon series is 

 about evenly divided (recessive, intermediate, and intensive). The 

 five Garden Springs adults are chiefly intensive, as are four of the 

 five Kent individuals. The Uvalde and Laredo specimens are 

 recessive, while the Beeville and Gregory representatives are average. 

 The Montelovcz and Jaral individuals are almost all intensivelj' 

 colored. 



From the basis of the Arizona, Marathon, Kent, Garden Springs, 

 and Laguna del Gato series it seems possible that direct and reflected 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



lijiht may be a factor in determining the intensity of the color pat- 

 tern, the percentage of intensive specimens being greatest from those 

 locaHties known to us where tjie cover is densest, more light resistant 

 and the surface conditions less favorable for reflecting light. 



Distribution. — This species has the widest distribution of any in 

 the genus, its range extending from southern New Mexico (Sacra- 

 mento Mts.), south to southern Coahuila, Mexico (Jaral), west to 

 the Baboquivari Mts., central southern Arizona, and east to the 

 Texas coast at Gregory (San Patricio Co.). Its vertical range is 

 from practically sea-level at the last-mentioned locality to -as high 

 as -1,800 feet in the Sacramento Mountains. Its zonal range appears 

 to be entirely Lower Sonoran. As far as known, it does not extend 

 into the region of the Edwards Plateau in central Texas and does 

 not occur in the mountains of Trans-Pecos, Texas. Scudder in his 

 original description stated that he had specimens from Mexico, this 

 probably referring to the Montelovez specimens examined by us, as 

 these were contained in his collection. 



Biological Notes. — The present species was fairlj^ numerous on 

 creosote-bush {CoviUea tridentata) at Dry Canyon, Sacramento 

 Mountains, New Mexico, and occurred on the same plant onTumamoc 

 Hill, Arizona, while at the latter locality it was also found on the 

 ground in short, dry, yellow grass. On the slopes of Sycamore Canyon, 

 Baboquivari Mountains, Arizona, it also occurred in grasses and was 

 taken from Acacia sp. At Marathon, Texas, it was generally common 

 in various low bushes and grasses, the males, particularly, often 

 sprawled out in a loose manner somewhat reminding one of phalangids 

 or harvest-men, while at Kent and Garden Springs it occurred in 

 similar situations. At Beeville and Uvalde it was taken from green 

 weedy plants, at Gregory it was found in the green tangle about a 

 mesquite clump, Avhile it was beaten from a low bush on a sandy 

 slope at Laredo. At Laguna del Gato it was taken rather commonly 

 with D. castanea on a low, very green rliamnaceous shrub (probably 

 Condalia ohovata). 



A correlation of the dates on the present serie? brings out some 

 very interesting points on the time of maturity of the species. The 

 earliest dates on which adults were secured are Jul}' ,28 at Beeville, 

 July 30 at Gregory, August 6 at Laguna del Gato, August 7 at Mesilla, 

 August 10-12 at Laredo, and August 16 at Mesilla. At Dry Canyon, 

 New Mexico (elevation 4,800 feet), on July 13 nymphs not more than 

 half grown were not uncommon, while at Marathon and Garden 

 Springs on August 26-27 and September 2, respectively, nothing but 

 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



nymphs were seen, while on September 11 both nymphs and adults 

 were taken at Garden Springs, and adults outnumbered the nymphs 

 at Marathon on September 12-13. From this it is apparent that 

 in the low, warmer Rio Grande Plain and interior valleys (Mesilla) 

 the species matures at least a month earlier than in the higher regions 

 of the plateau. The latest date is November 1-3 at Jaral, Coahuila. 

 Morphological Notes. — The subgenital plate of the male varies in 

 the depth of the emargination of the distal margin and also in the 

 degree of acuteness of the flanking angles of the same, in some exam- 

 ples these latter being quite acute and in others appreciably rounded. 

 The ovipositor varies slightly, almost inappreciably, in general 

 curvature of the margins and little in length, but the relative depth 

 varies very decidedly, particularly in all of the Mexican specimens,^ 

 which, however, are almost or quite equalled in this respect by 

 individuals of the sex from Kent and Garden Springs. The lateral 

 angles of the subgenital plate of the female vary in the degree of 

 angulation, in one extreme being practically rectangulate, in the 

 other with subspiniform extremities. While this latter variation 

 is frequently correlated with that in the depth of the ovipositor, the 

 rectangulate type with the deeper ovipositor, the more spiniform 

 type with the narrower ovipositor, this relationship is not at all 

 absolute. 



Synonymy. — By an unfortunate lapse, Scudder, when originally 

 describing this species, applied to it the same name (Dichopetala 

 hrevicauda) that he had given two years previously to a species now 

 known to belong to the genus Arethcea, as explained by Morse who 

 renamed the present form. The name brevihastata, proposed by 

 Morse to replace the preoccupied brevicauda, cannot, in our opinion, 

 be credited to Scudder, notwithstanding Morse's statement that the 

 name was suggested by him, as the note is entirely by Morse without 

 a direct quotation from Scudder. The naming of a species by proxy 

 does not seem possible under present-day rules. In the same paper 

 in which the last D. brevicauda was described, Scudder and Cockerell 

 recorded D. emarginaia from Mesilla Park on Airiplex, a locality and 

 situation from which they, a few lines below, described brevicauda. 

 There are no specimens in the Scudder Collection labelled emarginaia 

 from Mesilla Park or in the National Museum, and Prof. Cockerell 

 can give me no additional information. In view of these facts and 

 also that true emarginaia is not found within hundreds of miles of 

 that locality, as far as known only brevihastata occurring in that 

 region, it seems perfectly logical to assume that the determination 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



of Mesilla material as belonging to two species is due to a compilation 

 of determinations made at different times, one before the recognition 

 of brevihastata, and that both records relate to the same species. 



The species D. Icevis, erected by the senior author on a single 

 female, is a sjTionym of the present species. The peculiarities of the 

 ovipositor of the type of Icevis, the unarmed margins of which sug- 

 gested the specific name, we now know are due to the immaturity 

 of the individual. The latter is in the stage immediately preceding 

 maturity and its proper relationship to the other material now in 

 hand is very evident. The more robust character of the limbs and 

 smaller size of the type of Iwvis are similarly explained. 



Remarks. — -The variation in the length of the pronotum as found 

 in certain females has been touched upon above under the measure- 

 ments, this being the most decided fluctuation from the more general 

 tjT)e found in the species. After considerable study and considera- 

 tion from different view points, we have concluded that this phase 

 cannot be separated from the more typical one of brevihastata, that 

 it is a fluctuation occurring anywhere in the range of the species, 

 although more numerous in certain regions than in others, and is 

 approached by a few specimens not typical of the same and again 

 not exactly similar to the type of brevihastata. There is, of course, 

 a possibility that future work may show the advisability of recognizing 

 the larger pronotum type as distinct, but we do not feel that the 

 necessary evidence will be forthcoming. 



Speciviens Examined. — 103; 47 males, 46 females, 4 male nymphs, 

 6 female nymphs. 



Sycamore Canyon, Baboquivari Mts., Pima Co., Arizona, elev. 

 3,700-4,700 feet, October 6-9, 1910, (R. and H.), 2 cf , 3 9 . 



Tumamoc Hill, Tucson Mts., Pima Co., Arizona, elev. 2,400-3,092 

 feet, October 3-4, 1910, (R. and H.), 3 cf , 3 9 . 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mts., Cochise Co., Arizona, August, 1905, 

 (H. Skinner), 1 a', 1 9 nymph. Type ( 9 n.) of D. Icevis, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Riley's Ranch, Mesiilla Valley, New Mexico, August 16, (Cockerell), 



1 c^. Type, [Scudder Coll.]. 



Mesilla Park, New Mexico, August 7 and September 11, (Cock- 

 erell), 2 9 . Allotype and paratype, [Scudder Coll.]. 



Dry Canyon, Sacramento Mts., Otero Co., New Mexico, elev. 

 4,800 feet, July 13, 1907, (R. and H.), 1 9 nymph. 



Marathon, Brewster Co., Texas, elev. 3,900-4,160 feet, August 

 26-27 and September 12-13, lj)12, (R. and H.), 16 c^, 14 9 , 2 o" and 



2 9 nymphs. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Garden Spring, Brewster Co., Texas, September 2 and 11, 1912, 

 (R. and H.), 3 d', 2 9,2 9 nymphs. 



Kent, Culberson Co., Texas, elev. 3,900-4,200 feet, September 

 17-18, 1912, (R. and H.), 3 cf , 2 9 . 



Uvalde, Uvalde Co., Texas, elev. 1,000-1,100 feet, August 21-22, 

 1912, (R. andH.), 1 9. 

 Beeville, Bee Co., Texas, July 28, 1912, (R. and H.), 1 9 . 

 Laredo, Webb Co., Texas, elev. 500-550 feet, August 10 and 12, 

 1912, (R. and H.), 1 &,\ 9. 

 Gregory, San Patricio Co., Texas, July 30, 1912, (H.), 19. 

 Laguna del Gato, three miles west of Sam Fordyce, Hidalgo Co., 

 Texas, elev. 175-200 feet, August 6, 1912, (R. and H.), 11 d', 8 9 , 

 1 cT and 1 9 nymph. 



Montelovez, Coahuila, Mexico, September 20, (Palmer), 6 cf , 4 9 , 

 [Scudder Coll. and U. S. ^. M.]. 



Jaral, Coahuila, Mexico, November 1-3, 1909, (J. Friesser), 4 9 , 

 [Field Museum of Natural History]. 

 Dichopetala gladiator n. sp. 



1901. Dichopetala emarginata Rehn (not of Brunner), Trans. Amer. Entom. 



Soc, XXVII, p. 335. [Texas.] 

 1912. Dichopetala emarginata Hunter, Pratt and Mitchell (not of Brunner), 

 Bull. 113, Bureau of Entom., U. S. Dept. of Agric, p. 50. [Hebbronville, 

 Texas.] 

 1912. Dichopetala brevihastata Hunter, Pratt and Mitchell (not of Morse), 

 Ibid., p. 50. (Part) [Alice, Texas.] 



The present form is closely related to the following species, D. 

 emarginata Brunner, from which, however, it can easily be separated 

 b}^ the more ample tegmina of the male, the more longitudinal 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum of the same sex, the less crassate tooth 

 to the male cercus, the less deeply and sharply angulato-emarginate 

 apex of the subgenital plate of the same sex, the proportionately 

 longer limbs of both sexes and the much longer, slenderer, and more 

 arcuate ovipositor. 



Type: cf ; Lyford, Cameron County, Texas. August 6-7, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size rather large; ft)rm moderately elongate. 

 Head with the occiput but little declivent to the fastigium and 

 antennal scrobes; fastigium moderately compressed, sublamellate 

 at the apex, subsulcate proximad, extremity partially in contact 

 with facial fastigium; eyes prominent, ovate, their depth contained 

 one and one-third times in that of the infra-ocular portion of the 

 gense; antennse with the proximal joints rounded, very long, over 

 four times as long ag the body. Pronotum subsellate, the dorsum 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



117 



bisinuate when seen from the lateral aspect; disk of the pronotum 

 very narrow mesacl, the median width about half the caudal width 

 of the same; lateral margins of the disk regularly converging to the 

 middle of the same, thence regularly diverging caudad, indicated 

 caudad by a rounded angle, but elsewhere by color onlj^, in section 

 the cephalic portion of the disk is arcuate, the caudal section deplan- 

 ate; cephalic margin of disk truncate, caudal margin of same gently 

 arcuate, distinctly elevated; transverse sulcus V-shaped, obliquely 



Fig. 23. — Dichopetala gladiator n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



severing the margins of the disk mesad, on the lateral lobes extending 

 considerably ventrad ; lateral lobes with the greatest depth contained 

 twice in the dorsal length of the same, cephalic margin subtruncate, 

 ventro-cephalic angle rotundato-rectangulate, ventral margin arcuato- 

 sinuate, slightly emarginate cephalad, ventro-caudal angle and 

 caudal margin gently arcuate, dorsad rounding into the caudal mar- 

 gin of the disk, the surface of the lobes strongly drawn in to the 



Figs. 24 and 2.5. 



-Outline of left cercus of topotypeof Dichopetala emarginata (24) 

 and type of D. gladiator (25). (X 10.) 



lateral margins of the disk. Tegmina slightly longer than the disk 

 of the pronotum, greatest width of the discoidal and anal fields of 

 the tegmina subequal to the length of the anal field; costal margin 

 moderately arcuate, distal margin obliquely arcuato-truncate, distc- 

 caudal (literally apical) angle well rounded, sutural margin arcuate- 

 obtuse-angulate, slightly sinuate distad of the extremity of the 

 stridulating vein; marginal field moderately broad, discoidal field 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



not particularly broad, expanding distad, anal vein moderately 

 arcuate, stridulating vein strongly arcuate proximad, straight distad, 

 tympanum proper rather large, subtrigonal. Abdomen with the 

 disto-dorsal abdominal segment having the margin sinuately arcuato- 

 truncate, moderately arcuato-emarginate laterad; supra-anal plate 

 tongue-shaped; cerci regularly arcuate inwards, the proximal portion 

 of the shaft rather heavy, somewhat tapering, median lobe placed 

 on the dorsal surface, short, depressed, slightly concave ventrad, 

 when seen from the dorsum with the external margin arcuate, 

 internal margin straighter, distal extremity of the lobe weakly 

 sul^truncate, the lobe narrowing along the same lines as the proximal 

 portion of the shaft of the cercus, distal portion of shaft more sharply 

 arcuate, subdepressed, acute subaciculate, the distal portion (distad 

 of tooth) subequal in length to the proximal portion; subgenital 

 plate moderately produced, elongate, lateral margins moderately 

 converging on median half, subparallel on distal fourth, distal margin 

 with a V-shaped median emargination which occupies not more than 



Figs. 26 and 27. — Ventral outline of subgenital plate of topotype of Dichopetala 

 emarginata (26) and type of D. gladialor (27). (X 4.) 



one-half of the margin, laterad of the emargination subtruncate, 

 distal portion of the ventral surface of plate tricarinate, mesad and 

 laterad, the lateral carinse following the lines of the distal fourth of 

 the lateral margins, the oblique portion of the lateral margins thick- 

 ened and subcarinate. Cephalic femora about two and one-half 

 times the length of the disk of the pronotum; cephalic tibiae with the 

 foramina elliptical. Median femora but slightly less than twice the 

 length of the head and pronotum. Caudal femora nearly one and 

 one-half times the length of the body, moderately inflated in proximal 

 ■ half. 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as the type. 



Description of Allotype. — The following characters are those of 

 difference from the type. Size large; form moderately robust. Head 

 with eyes slightly less prominent and more elliptical than in the 

 iiiale, their depth contained one and one-half times in that of the 

 infra-ocular portion of the gcnae. Pronotum with the disk less 

 deplanate than in the male and nearly straight when seen from the 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



lateral aspect, form of disk similar to that of male but less constricted 

 mesad; cephalic margin emarginato-truncate, caudal margin moder- 

 ately arcuate; lateral lobes with their greatest depth contained 

 slightly less than twice in the dorsal length of the same, margins of 

 the lateral lobes as in the male. Tegmina semi-ovate, reaching the 

 caudal margin of the metazona, the greatest width distinctly greater 

 than the apparent length, interspace between the tegmina about 



Figs. 28 and 29. — Dorsal outline of head, pronotum, and tegmina of topotype 

 of Dichopetala emarginala (28) and allotype of D. gladiator (29). (X 2.) 



two-thirds that of a single tegmen. Cerci brief, conical, acute; 

 ovipositor subequal to the median femora in length, arcuate in 

 general form, moderately slender, tapering in proximal two-thirds, 

 ventral margin less arcuate than the dorsal one aside from a decidedly 

 arcuate distal portion, distal third of dorsal margin with eleven to 

 twelve teeth increasing in size distad, ventral margin with nine to ten 

 teeth on distal fifth, the extreme distal one slightly recurved; sub- 



Figs. 30 and 31. — Outline of ovipositor of topotype of Dichopetala emarginala 

 (30) and allotype of D. gladiator (31). (X 4.) 



genital plate almost divided to the base by a V-shaped emargination, 

 the lateral sections developed into very acute trigonal lobes- 

 Cephalic femora slightly less than twice as long as the disk of the 

 pronotum. Median femora twice the length of the disk of the 

 pronotum. Caudal femora almost two and one-half times the 

 length of the cephalic femora. 




120 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Paratypic Series. — We have before us a paratypic series of twenty- 

 three males and twenty females from the type locality — Lyforcl, 

 Cameron County, Texas. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Lyford. 



(Type) 



Length of body 16. ' 



Length of pronotum 4.5 



Greatest dorsal width of disk of pronotum 2 . 6 



Length of tegmen 4.6 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal fields 



of tegmen 3 . 5 



Length of cephalic femur 10.3 



Length of median femur 11.1 



Length of caudal femur 23 . 3 



Average and extremes 



of six Lyford spec. 

 (Type and Paratypes) 



16.7(15.9-17.8) 

 4.4( 4.2- 4.6) 

 2.7( 2.5- 3. ) 



4.4( 4.3- 4.8) 



3.4 ( 3.2- 3.5) 

 10.4(10. -10.9) 

 11.1 (10.8-11.4) 



23.3(22.8-23.8) 



d^d^ 



CotuUa. Wades. 



[U.S.N. M.] [U.S.N.M. 



Length of body 17.4 17. 



Length of pronotum 4.8 4.7 



Greatest dorsal width of disk of pro- 

 notum 2.9 2.4 



Length of tegmen 4.1 4. 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal 



fields of tegmen 3.2 3.4 



Length of cephalic femur 10.2 9.2 



Length of median femur 11.2 10. 



Length of caudal femur 23 . 2 22 . 5 



Carrizo 



Springs. 



[Hebard 



CoU.j 



16.2 

 4.7 



2.9 

 4.4 



3.2 

 9.7 



10.3 



22.5 



Lyford. 

 (Allotype) 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 22. 



Length of pronotum 5.7 



Greatest dorsal width of disk of pronotum. 3 . 1 



Apparent length of tegmen 1.4 



Greatest width of tegmen 2 . 1 



Length of cephalic femur 10.5 



Length of median femur 11.3 



Length of caudal femur 27. 



Length of ovipositor 11.2 



9 9 



Average and extremes 

 of six Lyford spec. 

 (Allotype and 

 Paratypes) 



21.9(20.2-22.6) 



5.9( 5.6- 6.3) 



3.3( 3.1- 3.6) 



1.4( 1.2- 1.7) 



2.2( 2.1- 2.3) 



10.8(10.3-11.1) 



12. (11.3-12.7) 



27.4(25.5-28.5) 



11. (10. -11.8) 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



9 9 



Carrizo Springs. 

 [Hebard Coll.] 



Length of body (exclusive of oviposi- 

 tor) 20.5 18. . 20.8 



Length of pronotiim 6.8 6.2 6.5 



Greatest dorsal width of disk of pro- 



notum 3.7 3.4 3.7 



Apparent length of tegmen 1.7 1.6 1 . 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.6 2.4 2.3 



Length of cephalic femur 11.3 10.3 



Length of median femur 11.6 



Length of caudal femur 28. 26.2 25.7 



Length of ovipositor 15.4 14.5 14.5 



Males from Wades, Cotulla, and Carrizo Springs have the pronotum 

 slightly longer, tegmina slightly shorter, and femora very slightly 

 shorter than Lyford males. Females from Carrizo Springs have the 

 general size slightly less, the pronotum appreciably longer and 

 ovipositor distinctly longer than in Lyford individuals of the same 

 sex. The most striking variation in measurements is in the length 

 of the ovipositor, which varies geographically more than individually, 

 the Carrizo Springs females having this actually and proportionately^ 

 far exceeding the measurement of the Lyford specimens. 



Color Notes. — The following notes have been based wholly on 

 material which was stuffed in the field or which we have every reason 

 to believe has retained its original coloration. The recessive and 

 intensive extremes are considerably different — in fact, decidedly 

 different in the male sex. Instead of describing a dorsal and lateral 

 color, it seems best in the present species to speak of the tones as a 

 general color, a pronotal wash, a pale pattern, and an abdominal 

 infuscation. 



General color of male varying from cinnamon buff to yellow ochre, 

 passing in certain individuals to apple green. The pronotal wash 

 varies from uniform with the general color through sanford's brown 

 to claret brown, the area covered by the same consisting of the 

 occiput, disk of the pronotum, more or less of the dorso-cephalic and 

 dorso-caudal portions of the lateral lobes of the same, the tegminal 

 humeral trunk and more or less of the discoidal field and vicinitj^ 

 of the anal vein of the tegmina. The pale pattern consists of the 

 usual postocular bars outlining the disk of the pronotum, the greater 

 portion of the margins of the lateral lobes, the marginal field of the 

 tegmina, paired lateral bars on the abdomen, transverse edgings on 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the segments of the same, and an adventitious medio-longitudinal 

 alidominal thread. The tone of this pattern varies from barita 

 yellow (in the recessive extreme where it is very poorly contrasted) 

 to buff yellow, in the generally greenish individuals running to 

 whitish with the transverse edgings of the abdominal segments cendre 

 •green. The abdominal infuscation varies in intensity with the 

 general condition of the coloration, in the extreme recessive condition 

 being absent and in the other extreme covering the entire dorsum of 

 the abdomen (except for the medio-longitudinal thread) and the 

 dorsal portion of the lateral faces of the same, between which types 

 •are regular graduations in the dorsal width of this shade, the lateral 

 patches decreasing in size toward the average and recessive condition. 

 The tone of this infuscation is always blackish. Eyes varying from 

 terra cotta to vandyke brown; antennae lightly more intense than 

 the general color. Pronotum with the pale borders of the lateral 

 lobes somewhat variable in width. Tegmina with the greater portion 

 of the anal field and much of the discoidal field with the base color 

 varying from wood l)rown to seal brown, the venation and a large 

 proximal patch on the anal field varying from sulphine yellow to raw 

 sienna, frequently more or less washed with greenish. Abdomen 

 with a dorsal medio-longitudinal bar of from sulphine yellow to 

 antique brown in those specimens approaching the intensive extreme 

 which have the dorsum of the abdomen not solidly infumate, the 

 anedio-longitudinal thread of the pale pattern of course dividing this 

 tbar; segments with the pale pattern edging narrowing mesad, 

 "broadest where they bisect the lateral bars of the same pattern, in 

 the intensive extreme a suggestion of beading of the same margin 

 is due to the breaking of the pigment into regular though subcon- 

 tiguous patches; disto-dorsal abdominal segment varying from deep 

 'chrome to sanford's brown; cerci and subgenital plate ranging from 

 deep chrome to orange rufous. Cephalic and median limbs of the 

 ■general color, more or less suffused with orange rufous distad on the 

 femora and all of the tibia, the latter in the intensive condition 

 becoming blackish brown distad. In one of the recessive specimens 

 the cephalic and median femora are dusky olive green distad. Caudal 

 femora of the g(>neral color, pattern always distinctly indicated, 

 the distal extremity always with a blackish area occupying about 

 one-seventh the femoral length, the distal half otherwise varying 

 from light orange yellow to mars yellow, passing into the color of 

 the proximal half; caudal tibia) more or less deeply and almost wholly 

 suffused with blackish brown, with a brief genicular section of the 

 general color. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Female with the general color varying from sulphine yellow to 

 >cosse green, the dorsum of the abdomen in intensive individuals 

 Tanging to dilute raw sienna. The pronotal wash is only indicated 

 in the extreme intensive condition, never as extensive as in the male 

 and only solid on the occiput and the cephalic half of the pronotal 

 disk. Pale pattern in the extreme recessive type but faintly indicated 

 .on the head and pronotum, in the extreme intensive condition much 

 .as in the male, but the transverse edgings to the abdominal segments 

 are narrower and decidedly beaded by blackish intervals. Marginal 

 iield of tegmina always solidly whitish. Abdominal infuscation 

 represented only in intensive specimens by blackish areas of variable 

 size placed dorso-laterad at the bases of the segments. Antennae 

 ■varying from apricot yellow to ochraceous orange. Ovipositor of 

 the general color, strongly olive green distad, edged there with 

 blackish brown, the dorsal margin of proximal half washed with 

 ;raw sienna. Limbs of general color, in the intensive extreme ap- 

 proaching viridian green proximad on caudal femora, distad on same 

 sulphine yellow, distal infuscation usually present only in the inten- 

 sive individuals;^^ tibiae of the general color, distal extremity of the 

 same and tarsi touched with buffy brown. 



The type is an average male, while the allotype is an extremely 

 intensive female. In the Lyford series we have both extremes in 

 both sexes and every intermediate, so it is evident that the color 

 variation has no geographic significance. 



Distribution. — This large species is known from seven localities 

 in the Rio Grande Plain of Texas {vide Bray), its range extending 

 .east to Corpus Christi, south to Lyford, north to Wades and CotuUa, 

 and northwest to Carrizo Springs. Its distribution probably 

 extends south of the Rio Grande into Mexico, but we have no material 

 from that country. Its vertical distribution is limited, extending 

 from or near sea-level at Corpus Christi and Lyford to about seven 

 hundred and fifty feet at Carrizo Springs. 



Biological Notes. — The present species, from data on the specimens, 

 was taken on cotton at San Diego (nymphal individuals) and on 

 prickly pear (Opuntia) at Hebbronville and Alice. At Lyford we 

 found the species fairly common but somewhat local in fields of high 

 weeds, which had a low cover of sand spur (Cenchrus) and grasses. 

 Its stridulation, which was heard at night and with the aid of which 

 .specimens were taken, is very faint. 



-^ One exception, a recessive female from Lyford has them indicated. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The material from San Diego taken April 30 is all nymphal, while 

 at Carrizo Springs nymphs were taken in May and adults only in 

 June. At Wades and Cotulla adults were taken May 21 and 12, 

 respectively, while at Lyford, August 6-7, but a few nymphs were 

 secured, although the adults were numerous. At Hebbronville the 

 species was pairing August 29. 



Morphological Notes. — In the male there is some variation in the 

 relative size of the tegmina and some slight differences in the character 

 of the margin of the median lobe of the cerci, but the variation in the 

 genitalia of that sex, including the distal margin of the subgenital 

 plate, is extremely slight. The really noteworthy feature in the 

 form variation is that of the ovipositor, as it varies some in form as 

 well as dimensions. The even curve of the latter is appreciably 

 flattened mesad in certain individuals. This latter condition, how- 

 ever, is never decided enough to cause the ventral margin to appear 

 wholly or in part straight. The caudal margin of the disk of the 

 pronotum varies in the female from truncate to slightly but dis- 

 tinctly arcuate. 



Synonymy. — The misidentifications of this species, first as D. 

 emarginata by Rehn in 1901, and second by Hunter, Pratt and 

 Mitchell in 1912 as D. emarginata and in part as hrevihastata, we are 

 able to correct, having the material before us. The first error can 

 be explained by the absence of any material for comparison of the 

 closely allied emarginata, while the same reason was doubtless respon- 

 sible for its determination as hrevihastata, only female individuals 

 having been at hand, aside from an alcoholic male from Hebbronville. 



Remarks. — There exists a possibility that the acquisition of more 

 material from the western part, of the range of the species may make 

 desirable the separation of a western race based on the more elongate 

 ovipositor, but our present representation is too limited to convince 

 us of the desirability of that action. This form is complemental to 

 D. emarginata, living in the main in a different region although in 

 much the same situations. 



Specimens Examined. — 65; 29 males, 29 females, 3 male nymphs, 

 4 female nymphs. 



Lyford, Cameron Co., Texas, August 6-7, 1912, (R. and H.), 

 24 cf , 21 9,3 9 nymphs. Type, allotype and paratypes. 



Corpus Christi, Nueces Co., Texas, July 29, 1912, (H.), 1 9 

 nymph; October 20, 1905, (F. C. Pratt), 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Wades, Nueces Co., Texas, May 21, (E. A. Schwarz), 1 cf , [U. S. 

 N. M.]. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Alice, Nueces Co., Texas, August 28, 1908, (J. D. Mitchell; on 

 Opuntia),! 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



San Diego, Duval Co., Texas, April 30, (E. A. Schwarz; on 

 cotton), 2 d" nymphs, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Hebbronville, Diival Co., Texas, August 29, 1908; on Opuntia, 

 1 d', 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Cotulla, La Salle Co., Texas, May 12, 1906, (F. C. Pratt), 1 d", 

 [\J. S. N. M.]. 



Carrizo Springs, Dimmit Co., Texas, May and June, 1885, 

 (A. AVadgymar), 2 cT, 3 9 , 1 d^ nymph, [Hebard Collection]. 



Texas, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



Dichopetala emarginata Brunner. 



1878. D[ichopetala] emarginata Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 77, 



[Texas.] 

 1897. Dichopetala emarginata Saussure and Pictet, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 



Orth., I, p. 3l5. [Texas.] 



This species constitutes with D. gladiator {vide supra) a section 

 •of the genus readily recognized by genital characters of both sexes. 

 These characters are emphasized in the keys, and in the foregoing 

 •description of gladiator the differential features of the two forms are 

 also given. 



Types: cf and 9 ; Texas. [Brunner Collection and Geneva 

 Museum.2«] 



Description of Male (Dallas, Texas; U. S. N. M.). — Size medium; 

 form as usual in the genus. Head with occiput moderately declivent; 

 fastigium moderately compressed, low, subcontiguous with the 

 facial fastigium; eyes moderately prominent, ovate, greatest depth 

 contained one and one-third times in the greatest depth of the infra- 

 ocular portion of the gense; antennae with proximal -joints not 

 depressed. Pronotum not sellate, dorsum subdeplanate, on cephalic 

 half slightly rounding laterad; disk with lateral margins slightly 

 indicated by angles caudad, by color for their whole length, decided 

 and regularly narrowed mesad, the median width about one-half 

 that of the caudal margin of the disk; cephalic margin of disk trun- 

 cate, caudal margin of same considerably arcuate, slightly flattened 

 mesad; transverse sulcus bisecting the lateral margins of the disk 

 mesad, on the disk forming an obomegoid figure caudad of the middle; 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum with the greatest depth contained 



-^ From the information given by Saussure and Pictet we learn that this 

 mateaial, or at least the portion of it in the Geneva Museum, was collected by 

 Boll. We have examined fourteen specimens collected by Boll at Dallas, so we 

 >consider Dallas material typical. 




126 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan.,. 



about twice in the dorsal length of the same, cephalic margin of lobes 

 straight, ventro-cephalic angles narrowly rotundato-subrectangulate,. 

 ventral margin very slightly oblique, sinuato-truncate, ventro-caudal 

 angle roundly obtuse-angulate, caudal margin obliquely arcuato- 

 truncate, the dorsal portion of the margin passing into the arcuation 

 of the caudal margin of the disk. Tegmina over three-fourths the 

 length of the disk, the greatest width of the discoidal and anal fields 

 little inferior to the tegininal length; costal margins moderately 

 arcuate, rounding into the slightly oblique subtruncate distal margin, 

 sutural margin subrectangulate, the angle at the extremity of the 

 stridulating vein broadly rounded, the distal section of the 

 same margin slightly sinuate; marginal field narrow, discoidal field 

 regularly expanding distad, anal vein arcuate, anal field with its 

 greatest length subequal to its greatest width, stridulating vein 

 decidedly arcuate, tympanum proper poorly developed. Disto- 



Fig. 32. — Dichopetala emarginata Brunner. Lateral view of male topotype. ( X 2.)' 



dorsal abdominal segment with the margin truncate distad; supra- 

 anal plate trigonal, acute, the lateral margins of same slightly arcuate; 

 cerci with the proximal portion moderately robust, slightly flattened 

 dorsad, median lobe placed on dorsal surface, depressed, broad, when 

 viewed from the dorsum the margin of the lobe is broadly rounded 

 on the external and bluntly angulate on the internal side, shaft 

 proper arcuate inwards from proxiinad of middle, tapering, acute, 

 subaciculate, slightly curved dorsad; subgenital plate with proximal 

 width slightly less than greatest length, moderately produced, distal 

 half with margins converging for the greater portion of their length, 

 then subparallel, distal margin rectangulate emarginate, the lateral 

 angles very faintly blunted, ventral surface weakly tricarinate distad. 

 Cephalic femora somewhat shorter than the combined length of the 

 head, pronotum and tegmina; foramina of cephalic tibiae elongate 

 elliptical. Median femora slightly exceeding the combined length 

 of head, pronotum, and tegmina. Caudal femora slightly more than 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES .OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



twice the length of the median femora, considerably robust in the^ 

 proximal three-fifths. 



Description of Female (Dallas, Texas; U. S. N. M.). — -The following- 

 points are those of difference from the male. Size rather large. 

 Eyes slightly more elliptical than in the male; proximal antennal 

 joints slightl}" deplanate. Pronotum with the lateral margins of 

 disk marked nowhere by angles and only indicated by color, shape 

 of color margins as in male, but median width slightly more than 

 half the caudal width of the disk; lateral lobes with greatest depth 

 contained less than twice in the greatest length of same. Tegmina 

 distinctly laterad, separated by more than their own width, in form 

 semi-ovate, not reaching to caudal margin of the metanotum, humeral 

 trunk indicated. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment subtruncate; 

 supra-anal plate slightly broader than long, rounded subtrigonal. 

 Ovipositor elongate, more than twice the length of the pronotal disk^ 

 moderately robust, dorsal margin moderately arcuate, slightly 

 flattened mesad, ventral margin straight except for a short antl 

 decided arcuation distad, dorsal margin armed on distal fifth with 

 six spines, ventral margin armed on same section with six to eight 

 spines, the extreme ones of latter series slightly recurved; subgenital 

 plate with chitinous portion divided in two, these present as lateral 

 subpyriform lobes with very acute apices. Cephalic femora slightly 

 and median femora decidedly exceeding the combined length of head^ 

 pronotum, and tegmina. Caudal femora slightly less than twice the 

 length of median femora. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



27 This specimen is so badly shrunken that we have not considered the body 

 length. 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Texas. 



(Type meas., Gregory, Beeville, 



ex Brunner) Tex. Tex. 



Length of body 14. 17.6 15.7 



Length of pronotum 4.5 4.1 4. 



■Greatest caudal width of disk 



of pronotum 2.7 2.3 



Length of tegmen 4. 3.6 



Greatest width of discoidal 



and anal fields of tegmen 3.2 3. 



Length of cephalic femur 9.5 10 . 9.4 



Length of median femur 11.2 10 .' 



Length of caudal femur 20. 23. 21.8 



9 9 

 Dallas, Texas. 



(Described 



spec, (Scudder 



U.S.N.M.) Coll.) 



Length of body^ 18.6 13. 



Length of pronotum 6. 5. 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pro- 



notufh 3.2 3. 



Apparent length of tegnien 1.4 .7 



Width of entire tegmen 2. 2.1 



Length of cephalic femur 9.3 



Length of median femur 10.2 



Length of caudal femur 20.8 



Length of ovipositor 10.3 11.1 



9 9 

 Dallas, Texas. 



Uvalde, 

 Tex. 



16.7 

 3.9 



2.7 



3.6 



3. 

 10. 



10. 

 22 



(Scudder 

 Coll.) 



16. 

 6. 



3.4 



1. 



1.6 



23.8 

 12.7 



(U.S.N.M.) 



Length of body 17.2 



Length of pronotum 5.5 



Greatest caudal width of disk of prono- 

 tum 3. 



Apparent length of tegmen 1 . 2 



Width of entire tegmen : 2. 



Length of cephalic femur ; 8.4 



Length of median femur ; 9. 



Length of caudal femur .-. 21 . 



Length of ovipositor 11.3 



Average 



of four 



specimens. 



16.1 

 5.6 



3.1 



1. 



1.9 



8.8 



9.6 

 21.8 

 11.3 



Texas. 

 (Type 

 meas., ex 

 Brunner.) 



15. 

 5. 



9. 



22. 

 13. 



The Dallas male from the Scudder Collection is the smallest of 

 seven of that sex from the same locality, while the two females from 

 the same series represent the extremes of six females contained 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



therein. It is quite evident that considerable individual variation 

 is present in the species, this being pronounced in the Dallas repre- 

 sentation, which is the only series of any size. Too little material 

 is available to consider possible geographic variation in size. 



Color Notes. — But two of the specimens before us have been stuffed, 

 these (both males) forming the basis of most of the following notes. 

 As usual there is a dorsal color, a lateral color, and paired pale lateral 

 lines in the male, while in the female the dorsal and lateral colors are 

 nearly or quite uniform and the pale lines hardly or but weakly 

 indicated. 



Lateral and ventral color of male ranging from lumiere green to 

 apple green, in unstuffed specimens ranging to old gold. Dorsal 

 color consisting of an overlying tint running from chestnut through 

 burnt sienna to orange rufous (in unstuffed specimens), covering the 

 lateral portions of occiput, all or nearly all of disk of pronotum and 

 lateral portions of dorsum of abdomen. Pale paired lines in male 

 extending from eye to base of cercus, ranging from pale viridine 

 yellow to creamy white. Head with fastigium and occiput bearing 

 a narrow medio-longitudinal line of the color of the pale lines, finely 

 bordered with lines of the dorsal color; eyes ochraceous tawny to liver 

 l)rown, crossed obliquely by an irregular slightly darker line. Prono- 

 tum in some specimens with the color dilute caudo-laterad, in tone 

 approaching the lateral color, the pure dorsal color being restricted 

 to a median band; lateral lobes more or less suffused dorso-caudad 

 with the dorsal color; ventral margins edged with the color of the 

 pale lateral lines. Tegmina with the marginal field of the color of 

 the pale lateral lines, humeral trunk chestnut, discoidal field and 

 large part of the anal field blackish brown, the venation varying 

 from buff yellow to neva green, the latter tone only present on the 

 discoidal field, the venation of the proximal half of anal field in all 

 specimens approaching buff yellow. Dorsum of abdomen with the 

 median section very close to the lateral color, the margins of all the 

 segments finely and closely beaded with the dorsal color on an 

 edging of the tone of the pale lateral bars. Limbs with the femora of 

 the lateral color, distad becoming infuscate with ochraceous-orange, 

 the tibiae entirely of the latter color; cephalic tibiae with the vicinity 

 of the foramina narrowly lined with blackish, a disto-genicular area 

 on the median tibiae more or less marked with the same, tarsi of the 

 same limbs more or less clouded with bone brown. Caudal femora 

 with distal eighth more or less solidly blackish brown, pattern on 

 external face more or less distinct in all, medio-longitudinal in 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



position; caudal tibiae more or less completely infuscate with bone 

 brown. 



General color of female (unstuffed specimens) olive ochre to honey 

 yellow, finely punctulate with maroon, these punctulations thickest 

 on the dorsum of the abdomen and practically absent from the face, 

 gense, and lateral lobes of the pronotum. Limbs varying from 

 uniform apple green to the general color, more or less suffused with 

 Vandyke l^rown. Pale lateral bars hardly indicated or weak in the 

 female, tegmina almost wholly of the same tone. Ovipositor of the 

 general color, suffused distad with sepia to brownish black. 



Distribution. — The range of this species covers a considerable area 

 of Texas south and east of the Edwards Plateau and plateau plains, 

 being known from four localities, viz., Dallas, Gregory, Beeville, and 

 Uvalde. Dallas constitutes the northern and eastern limit of its 

 known range, Gregory the southern, and Uvalde the western. The 

 vertical range of the species is from practically sea-level at Gregory 

 to eleven hundred feet elevation at Uvalde. 



Biological Notes. — All we know regarding the habits, etc., can be 

 taken from our own notes, based on the capture of three specimens. 

 At Gregory we obtained the species from a green tangle about a 

 mesquite clump, where D. hrevihastata was also secured; at Beeville 

 it occurred in weeds near a tangle of low vine-covered bushes, while 

 at Uvalde it occurred with D. castanea on Acacia berlandieri growing 

 on the low hill slopes. 



Morphological Notes. — The male cerci seem to be very constant in 

 form, but the distal margin of the male subgenital plate shows 

 considerable variation, in some specimens (Dallas) considerably 

 approximating D. gladiator in this respect, from which species, 

 however, cereal and other characters readily separate them. This 

 variation is due to a certain amount of plasticity in the shape of this 

 margin, which ranges from distinctly rectangulate emarginate (as it 

 is in the majority of specimens) to a type which has the angulation 

 obtuse with the lateral angles much more rounded than in the 

 typical form. 



In the female the ovipositor shows some variation in the straight- 

 ness of the ventral margin, this being slightly arcuate in three Dallas 

 individuals, but this arcuation is not as decided as in gladiator, the 

 general form and robustness of the ovipositor being different from 

 that found in the latter. In two Dallas females the tegmina are 

 hardly visible beyond the pronotum, l)ut the specimens are unques- 

 tionably adult. The tegmina project slightly caudad of the adjacent 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



(lateral) margins, but not (or hardly) caudad of the dorsal margin 

 of the pronotum (caudal margin of disk). v 



Remarks. — There can be little doubt of the correctness of associ- 

 ating Brunner's name with this species, as apparent discrepancies 

 between the description and present material seem to be entirely 

 color differences or else due to a different conception of terms and the 

 relativity of such. The evidence we have of the probable source of 

 the original material and locality of the same assists one considerably 

 in locating the species, as but one form of the genus is, so far as 

 known, found in the Dallas region. 



Specimens Examined. — 21 ; 12 males, 9 females. 



Dallas, Texas, (Boll), 7 d^, 6 9 , [Scudder Collection]; 1 c^, [U. S. 

 N. M.]. 



Dallas, Texas, 1 cf', 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Texas, (Belfrage), 1 9 , [Scudder Collection]. 



Gregory, San Patricio Co., Texas, July 30, 1912, (H.), 1 cf . 



Beeville, Bee Co., Tex^s, July 28, 1912, (H.), 1 cf . 



Uvalde, Uvalde Co., Texas, elev. 1,000-1,100 feet, August 21-22, 

 1912, (R, andH.), 1 cf. 

 Dichopetala oreoeca-* n. sp. 



Closely related to but a single species — D. catinata (vide infra) — 

 from which it can immediately be separated by the lobe of the male 

 cercus having the margins converging distad, by the ventral margin 

 of the same with a distinctly indicated longitudinal cingulum, the 

 narrower subgenital plate of the male, which has the lateral margins 

 subparallel distad, and by the more ample tegmina in the same sex, 

 while in the female sex the ventral margin of the lateral lobes are 

 straighter in the present species, the ovipositor is more elongate, 

 Avith the dorsal margin more regularly arcuate and the distal teeth 

 of same more numerous, and the apices of the subgenital plate 

 spiniform, while in both sexes the eyes are less prominent in oreoeca. 



Type: cf; Canyon behind PuUiam Bluff, Chisos Mountains, 

 Brewster Co., Texas. Elev. 4,600-5,000 feet. September 7, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form moderately elongate. 

 Head with the occiput full, but little declivent to the fastigium and 

 antennal scrobes; fastigium compressed, lamellate, in contact with 

 the fastigium of the face; eyes prominent, ovate in outline, infra- 

 ocular portion of the gense but little longer than the eye; antennae 



28 



'OphoiKoc, mountain-dwelling. 




132 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



about four and a half times as long as the body, proximal joints 

 cylindrical. Pronotum very faintly sellate, dorsal line weakly as- 

 cending caudad when seen from the side; form of disk as usual in the 

 genus, the median width hardly more than half that of the caudal 

 margin of the same, regularly diverging cephalad and caudad, more 

 sharply so cephalad; lateral margins of disk indicated on metazona 

 by rounded angles, by color alone on prozona; cephalic margin of 

 disk subtruncate, caudal margin of disk almost imperceptibly 



Fig. 33. — Dichopetala oreoeca n. sp. Lateraf view of type. (X 2.) 



arcuate; transverse sulcus broadly V-shaped mesad on disk, severing 

 the lateral margins of the disk mesad; lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 with the greatest depth contained one and one-half times in the 

 dorsal length of the same, cephalic margin sinuato-truncate, ventro- 

 cephalic angle blunt, nearly rectangulate, ventral margin arcuato- 

 truncate, gently rounding into the oblique arcuato-truncate caudal 

 margin. Tegmina in length nearly equal to that of the combined 



Figs. 34 and 35. — Outline of cercus of males (types) of Dichopetala oreoeca 



(34) and D. calUana (35). ( X 10.) 



head and pronotum; costal margin gently arcuate, disto-caudal 

 angle quadrantiform, distal margin obliquely passing into the distal 

 portion of the sutural margin, the latter roundly obtuse-angulate 

 at the extremity of the stridulating vein, obliquely arcuato-sinuate 

 distad of the same; marginal field moderately wide, discoidal field 

 regularly widening in the distal two-thirds, anal field with the greatest 

 length little more than the greatest width, stridulating vein gently 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



Figs. 36 and 37. — Ventral out- 

 line of subgenital plate of 

 males (types) of Dichopetala 

 catinata (36) and D. oreaeca 



(37). (X4.) 



arcuate, tympanum unequally trigonal, anal vein moderately arcuate. 

 Abdomen with the disto-dorsal segment having the distal margin 

 proper sinuato-truncate; supra-anal plate broad, rotundato-trigonal, 

 with folded rounded lateral flaps; cerci with proximal portion moder- 

 ately robust, cylindrical, lobe diverging proximad of the middle of 

 the shaft, expanding into a broad convex structure like an inverted 

 spoon, the dorsal margin arcuato-truncate, 

 ventral margin considerably arcuate and 

 with a distinct marginal longitudinal cin- 

 gulum, apex rather narrowly rounded, 

 whole lobe directed dorso-mesad, re- 

 mainder of shaft acute, tapering, acicu- 

 late, triquetrous in section, arcuate, lying 

 under tha lobe and following the same 

 general curve; subgenital plate rather ample, distal half with lateral 

 margins moderately converging, thence straight and subparallel to the 

 tips, distal margin nearly rectangulate emarginate, the lateral angles 

 moderately acute, the ventral surface with a distal medio-longitudinal 

 carina. Cephalic femora about one and two-thirds times as long 

 as the length of the head and pronotum together; cephalic tibiae 

 with the foramina elongate elliptical. Median femora subequal to 

 the median pair in length. Caudal femora slightly more than twice 

 the length of the cephalic femora, moderately inflated proximad. 



AUohjpe: 9 ; Moss Well, Chisos Mountains, Brewster Co., 

 Texas. Elev. 4,700 feet. September 5-8, 1912. (Rehn and Heb- 

 ard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — ^The following characters are those of 

 difference from the male sex. Form rather robust. Antennse about 

 twice the length of the body. Pronotum not at all sellate, the 

 dorsal line nearly straight when seen from the side; median width 

 of the disk proportionately greater than in the male ; lateral margins 

 of the disk indicated almost wholly by color; cephalic and caudal 



margins of the disk as in the male; 

 lateral lobes as in the male except 

 that the ventral margin is subsinuate. 

 Tegmina lateral, very small, rotundate, 

 distal margin slightly flattened, inter- 



T-- oo J on T-w I ii- space between the tegmina subequal to 

 Figs. 38 and 39. — Dorsal outline ^ ° '■ 



of head, pronotum, and teg- width of a single tegmen. Disto-dorsal 



mina of females (allotypes) of abdominal segment with the distal 



Uic/iopelala oreieca (38) and " 



D. catinata {39). (X "-M margin subarcuate, arcuato-emarginate 




134 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



laterad; supra-anal plate broadly tongue-shaped; ovipositor about 

 twice the length of the disk of the pronotum, moderately 

 robust and arcuate, tapering in proximal two-thirds, dorsal 

 margin very considerably and regularly arcuate to the very apex, 

 ventral margin very faintly arcuate except for the distal fourth 

 which forms a quadrant, dorsal margin with seven to eight distal 

 teeth, increasing in length distad, ventral margin with nine to ten 

 distal teeth increasing in length distad and with the apical ones 



somewhat recurved ; sub- 

 genital plate almost divided 

 in two (chitinous portion 

 completely divided) , lateral 

 sections elongate acute, the 

 tips aciculate, slightly 

 curved toward the median 

 line of the body. Cephalic 

 femora about one and two- 

 thirds times the length of 

 the head and pronotum to- 

 gether. Median femora slightly longer than the cephalic femora. 

 Caudal femora about two and one-half times the length of the 

 cephalic femora. 



Paratypic Series. — We have selected as paratypic eight males: two 

 from canyon behind PuUiam Bluff (locality of Type) and the re- 

 mainder from Moss Well (locality of Allotype). 



Figs. 40 and 41. — Outline of ovipositor of 

 allotypes of Dichopeiala oreoeca (40) and 

 D. catinata (41). (X 4.) 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Canyon behind 

 Pulliam Bluff, Average of six 

 Chisos specimens from 



Mts.,Tex. Chisos Mts., Tex. 

 (Type) (Type and Paratypes) 



Length of body 15.8 15.8 (14. -16.9) 



Length of pronotum 3.9 3.7 ( 3.5- 3.9) 



Greatest caudal width of 



disk of pronotum 2.5 2.6(2.5-2.9) 



Length of tegmen 5.3 4.8(4.3-5.3) 



Greatest width of discoi- 



dal and anal fields of 



. tegmen 3.2 3.3(3.2-3.8) 



Length of cephalic femur 10 .2 9.7(8. 9-10 . 3) 



Length of median femur 10 .1 10.1(9.2-11.) 



Length of caudal femur 21.5 21. 1 (19.6-22.5) 



Average of four 



specimens from 



Davis Mts., Tex. 



(Paratypes) 



15.1(14.3-16. ) 

 3.9( 3.8- 4. ) 



2.8( 2.6- 

 4.7( 4.6- 



3. ) 

 5. ) 



3.4( 3.3- 3.5) 



8.8( 8.4- 9.5) 



9.5 ( 9.2-10.1) 



20.3(19.5-21.8) 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, • 135 



9 9 



Monte- 

 Moss Well, Average of four lovez, 



Chisos Marathon, specimens from Coahuila. 



Mts.,Tex. Tex. Davis Mts., Tex. [Scudder 



(Allotype) (Paratype) (Paratypes) Coll.] 



Length of body (exclu- 

 sive of ovipositor) 16.3 21.5 19.9(19. -21.3) 15.5 



Length of pronotum 5. 5. 5. 1(5. -5.3) 4.4 



Greatest caudal width 



of disk of pronotum. 3.1 3.9 3.2(3.1-3.5) 3. 



Apparent length of — .7 



tegmen... 1.1 1. 1. ( .9-1.5) 



Greatest width of teg- 

 men 2. 2.2 1.9(1.9-2.) ,1.2 



Length of cephalic fe- 

 mur : 9.7 10.2 9.3(9.-9.5) 



Length of median fe- 

 mur 10.4 11.3 10.2(10. -10.5) 8.2 



Length of caudal fe- 

 mur 24. 24.6 23.5(23.2-24. ) 20. 



Length of ovipositor 10.4 10.9 10.8(10.5-11.6) 9. 



From the very small size of the Montelovez female it would seem 

 that at the southern end of its known range the species is quite under 

 the proportions of .Texan specimens, although it is best to make such 

 a statement guardedly, as it would appear from the evidence of the 

 Texan material that size variation is, in large part at least, individual. 

 In the Texan series our individual lots are not of sufficient size to be 

 really comparable, although the Marathon female appreciably exceeds 

 individuals of the same sex taken at higher elevations, while in the 

 male sex the measurements so overlap in the Chisos and Davis series 

 that the differences appear to be purely individual. Probably a 

 series from Marathon would show as much size variation as similar 

 representations from other localities. 



Color Notes. — The intensive and recessive extremes of this species 

 are considerably different, the latter being more decided in the 

 female than in the male. The components of the pattern are the 

 usual dorsal latero-ventral, and pale pattern colors, the first two 

 being wholly or in large part indistinguishable in the recessive females, 

 the pale pattern almost completely lacking in the same and weaker 

 than usual in recessive males. In the more or less intensive males 

 and females the pale pattern is very broad, in fact broader than in 

 any of the other forms of the genus. 



Dorsal color in recessive males limited to the sides of the dorsum 

 of the head, cephalic two-thirds of the disk of the pronotum. humeral 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



trunk, vicinity of the anal vein and part of the anal field of the 

 tegmina, indicated on the abdomen only by a lineation margining 

 the pale lines dorsad; in the intensive males coloring the occiput, the 

 dorsum of the pronotum, greater portion of the tegmina and gener- 

 ally the dorsum of the abdomen except mesad. The tone of the dorsal 

 color varies from claret brown to maroon, in the intensive extreme 

 blackish laterad on the abdomen. Lateral color in the male varying 

 from lettuce green to oil green, in the recessive extreme coloring the 

 middle of the occiput and the greater portion of the dorsum of the 

 abdomen with oil green, in the intensive extreme the latter is repre- 

 sented by a median section of oil yellow, occasional individuals 

 having this mars yellow and antique brown. The pale pattern 

 varies in tone from flat white to pale orange-yellow (on the abdomen 

 only), occasionally tinged with greenish, the pattern coloring the 

 usual areas and in the intensive individuals almost as wide on the 

 pronotum as on the tegmina, the ventral margin of the lateral lobes 

 edged with the same in intensive specimens. Head with a medio- 

 longitudinal occipito-fastigial thread of the pale color, faintly tinged 

 with the encompassing color; broad vertical infra-ocular and infra- 

 antennal bars of the pale pattern rather strongly (intensive) or weakly 

 (recessive) contrasted; antennae of the dorsal color (intensive) or 

 orange (recessive); eyes varying from auburn to bay. Tegmina 

 with the ground color of the discoidal field and much of the anal 

 field blackish brown, the overlying venation and solid paler section 

 of the anal field of the lateral color (recessive) or mars yellow (inten- 

 sive). Abdomen with the dorsal section of the segments more or 

 less decidedly edged distad with the pale pattern; disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment largely of the dorsal color; cerci varying from 

 greenish proximad and weak mahogany red distad to entirely orange 

 rufous. Limbs of the lateral color, not at all (recessive) or more or 

 less (intensive) washed with burnt sienna on the tibiae and the 

 distal extremities of the femora; genicular region of the caudal femora 

 blackish in intensive individuals; pattern of the pagina of the caudal 

 femora restricted, decided in intensive and weak in recessive indi- 

 viduals, ventro-lateral face of caudal femora flat white in intensive 

 specimens; foramina of cephalic tibiae whitish with a seal brown 

 figure. 



The recessive females are nearly uniform old gold to biscay green, 

 passing into civette green on the limbs, the head pale green yellow 

 with no markings except a faint postocular pale bar and an edging 

 of claret brown dorsad to the same; pronotum more or less parrot 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



green caiuhui, the pale lines weak; tegmina claret brown mesad,. 

 marginal field of the pale pattern; abdomen with weak narrow paired 

 pale lines, more or less distinctly edged dorsad by a line of claret 

 brown; ovipositor touchetl with pinkish proximad, the teeth black 

 tipped. Intensive females with the dorsal color covering most of the 

 occiput (not mesad), the cephalic and at least part of the caudal 

 section of the disk of the pronotum, in tone varying from claret 

 brown to mahogany red. The lateral color varies, in intensive 

 individuals (stuffed specimens) from olive green to ochraceous-tawny,. 

 passing into variscite green on the pleura and coxae of ochraceous- 

 tawny specimens, the lateral color covering the dorsum of the abdo- 

 men and limbs as well as the lateral and ventral aspects. Pale 

 pattern in intensive specimens broad, very broad on abdomen. Head 

 in intensive specimens with the vertical bars described in the male 

 rather weakly indicated, otherwise as in that sex. Pronotum with 

 the color of the caudal portion of the disk passing from the dorsal 

 color into that of the lateral regions, the pale bars outlined dorsad, 

 more or less distinctly with blackish; lateral lobes occasionally 

 washed with hoary white. Tegmina of intensive females with the 

 base color of the discoidal field blackish. Abdomen with the lateral 

 coloration more or less sprinkled with claret brown stipplings; 

 lateral pale bars more or less washed with flesh pink to rose pink, 

 sharply outlined dorsad on each segment by semi-lunate edgings of 

 black, which form continuous series conforming in arcuation to the 

 form of the abdomen; ovipositor in intensive specimens strongly 

 garnet brown to victoria lake on proximal two-thirds of dorsal 

 margin. All limbs wdth the genicular region more or less strongly 

 and sharply suffused with claret brown; all tarsi blackish. Caudal 

 limbs with the pattern as in intensive males, in one individual the 

 dorsal section of the proximal half of the femora is largely whitish. 



Both the type and allotype are intensive individuals. With a 

 single exception, all of the nymplis seen are in or approaching the 

 intensive condition, the exception being about midway between the 

 two extremes.. 



Distribution. — The present species has a very limited range, being, 

 found so far as known only at certain elevations in western Texas 

 and at an unlocated point in Coahuila, Mexico. Aside from Mara- 

 thon, Texas, the species is known only in that State from the Davis 

 and Chisos Mountains, the former range beginning about forty miles 

 northwest of Marathon, the latter lying seventy-five miles due south 

 from the same point. At Marathon (where it was very infrequent 




138 PROCEEDINGS O^ THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



and. occurred with D. hrevihastata) it was taken between 3,900 and 

 4,160 feet, while in the Davis Mountains it occurred in Lower Limpia 

 Canyon at 4,900 feet, at Maguires Ranch in Upper Limpia Canyon 

 at 5,600 feet and on the slopes of Pine Mountain at 6,500 feet. In 

 the Chisos Mountains it was secured at Moss Well at 4,500-5,300 

 feet, in the canyon behind Pulliam Bluff at 4,600-5,000 feet and on 

 the slopes of Lost Mine Peak at 6,000 feet. The vertical range of 

 the species is thus seen^ at least in Texas, to extend from about 3,900 

 to 6,500 feet. 



Biological Notes. — This peculiar species has been found in a number 

 of situations, on bare rock, in grasses and weeds, in a number of 

 species of shrubby plants and in low trees, once in a nogal or walnut 

 tree {Juglans rupestris). In such places they climb gingerly about, 

 at night giving occasionally a very faint lisping stridulation, of a 

 tinkling, sibilant character, which can be represented by zip-a zip-a 

 zip-a zip-ip-ip-ip, the last portion being given infrequently and then 

 very rapidly. This note can scarcely be heard at a distance greater 

 than six feet. 



Morphological Notes. — In the male the greatest morphological 

 variation appears to be that in the angulation of the distal margin 

 of the subgenital plate, this being more broadly obtuse-angulate in 

 many specimens than in the type, while the bottom of the emargina- 

 tion is nearly rounded in one individual. The male tegmina vary 

 somewhat in bulk, this causing the disto-sutural margin to appear 

 nearly straight in those having the longest tegmina and more or less 

 arcuate (or subangulate) at the apex of the anal vein in those with 

 shorter tegmina. The caudal margin of the disk of the pronotum 

 is truncate in some and feebly emarginate in other specimens, but 

 weakly arcuate (as in the type) in the majority. The female tegmina 

 vary consideral)ly in proportionate size, and the interspace between 

 the same consequently shows an equal amount of variation, ranging 

 from but little over half to that of a whole tegmen width . The oviposi- 

 tor exhibits similar variation in depth to that seen in certain other 

 species of the genus, in the majority of specimens the distal half being 

 su])equal in depth and tapering only in the proximal half, although 

 the form of the margins remains practically the same. The spines 

 at the distal extremity of the ovipositor vary in number from seven 

 -to nine dorsad and seven to ten ventrad. 



Remarks. — The peculiar characters of the male of this form imme- 

 •diately separate it from all of its congeners except catinata, from which 

 it can readily be distinguished l)y the lob(> of the cercus not being 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



«ul)truucate at the apex and having the margins of the same con- 

 verging distad. The female is not so readily separated, but it is 

 hardly likely to be confused with anything but catinata, the charac- 

 ters of difference from which are given in the diagnosis. This is 

 peculiarly a mountain form, the ]\Iarathon locality being very close 

 to the foot of mountains in conditions not at all desert-like. The 

 last-mentioned locality was the only place in Texas where it was found 

 .associated ^nth another species of the genus (D. hrevihastata) , which 

 there far outnumbered the present form. The large tegmina of the 

 male are quite characteristic of oreoeca, which in the male sex and in 

 •the intensively colored female is remarkably pretty. 



Specimens Examined. — 30; 13 males, 7 females, 1 male nymph, 

 "9 female mmiphs. 



Pine ^Mountain (slopes), Davis ^Mountains, Jeff Davis Co., Texas, 

 elev. 6,500 feet, August 29, 1912, (R. and H.),'l d" . 



^laguires Ranch, Upper Limpia Canyon, Davis ^Mountains, Jeff 

 Davis Co., Texas, elev. 5,600 feet, August 29, 30, 1912, (R. and H.), 

 3 cf. 3 9. 



Lower Limpia Canyon, Davis Mountains, Jeff Davis Co., Texas, 

 elev. 4.900 feet, August 31, 1912, (R. and H.), 1 9 . 



]vlarathon, Brewster Co., Texas, elev. 3,900-4,160 feet, September 

 12, 13, 1912, (R. andH.), 19. 



]\Ioss Well, Chisos Mountains, Brewster Co., Texas, elev. 4,500- 

 5,300 feet, September 5-8, 1912, (R. and H.), 6 cf . 1 9 (paratypes 

 and allotype), 5 9 nymphs. 



•Canyon behind PuUiam Bluff, Chisos Mountains, Brewster Co., 

 Texas, elev. 4,600-5,000 feet, September 7, 1912, (R. and H.), 3 d" 

 (Type and paratypes), 4 9 nymphs. 



Lost ^line Peak, Chisos Mountains, Brewster Co., Texas, elev. 

 6,000 feet, September 6, 1912, (R. and H.), 1 cf nymph. 



Montelovez, Coahuila, ^Mexico, September 20, 1 9 , [Scudder Coll.]. 

 Dichopetala catinata n- sp. 



Closely related to only D. orece'ca {vide supra), under which the 

 differential diagnostic characters are set forth. 



Type: cf ; Browmsville, Cameron Co., Texas. July 31, 1912. 

 (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — It seems necessary only to state characters 

 not fully in accord with those of oreoeca. Size moderate. Eyes very 

 prominent, ovate, their depth contained one and one-third times in 

 that of the infra-ocular portion of the gense. Pronotum hardly 

 sellate; disk of pronotum with median width very slightly more than 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.,. 



half that of the caudal margin of the same; lateral margins of the 

 disk regularly diverging cephalad and caudad; transverse sulcus with 

 an impressed subobomegoid figure; lateral margins of the disk with 

 a more or less distinct angle everywhere except mesad; cephalic 

 and caudal margins of the disk arcuato-truncate; lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum with the ventral margin distinctly sinuate and the caudal 

 margin less oblique. Tegmina not longer than the pronotal disk, 

 general form as in orececa, but with the sutural margin rotundato- 

 rectangulate at the apex of the stridulating vein; marginal field 

 narrow, discoidal field regularly expanding for nearly its whole 

 length, anal field with its greatest width about two-thirds of its 

 length, stridulating vein arcuate, slightly bent near the proximal 

 third, tympanum poorly defined, but with the general form much as 



Fig. 42. — Dichopetala catinata n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 2.) 



in oreoeca. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment with the distal margin 

 slightly emarginato-truncate, subrectangulate laterad of the same 

 and deeply and sharply arcuato-emarginate at the bases of the cerci; 

 supra-anal plate quadrate with rectangulate angles; cerci in general 

 much as in oreoeca, but the lobe is larger, the margins subparallel, and 

 the apex arcuato-truncate, while but a trace of the ventral cingulum 

 is present; subgenital plate ample, produced, arcuate in transverse 

 section, lateral margins concavely emarginate, distal margin arcuate 

 V-emarginate, lateral angles moderately acute, diverging, ventral 

 surface with a low median carina distad. Cephalic femora about 

 one and two-thirds times as long as the head and pronotum together. 

 Median femora slightly longer than the cephalic femora. Caudal 

 femora about twice the length of the median femora. 



Allotype: 9 ; Brownsville, Cameron Co., Texas. August 1, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — The following characters are those of 

 difference from the female of oreoeca. Pronotum with the disk broad 

 mesad, at least three-fourths the caudal width of the same; cephalic 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



and caudal margins of disk subtruneate; lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 with the ventral margin sinuato-emarginate dorsad of the coxae. 

 Tegmina more dorsal than in oreoeca, semi-ovate, separated by an 

 interval less than half the width of a single tegmen. Disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment with the distal margin subtruneate; supra-anal 

 plate transverse, rounded; ovipositor slightly less than twice the 

 length of the pronotal disk, moderately robust, margins as in oreoeca, 

 the extremity of the dorsal margin with six, that of the ventral margin 

 with seven spines; subgenital plate with the chitin divided in two, 

 the lateral sections elongate, sublanceolate, the immediate apex 

 blunted. Cephalic femora about twice the length of the disk of the 

 pronotum. Median femora slightly longer than the cephalic femora. 

 Paratypic Series. — We have before us two paratypes, one an 

 imperfect adult male, the other an immature male, both taken at 

 Brownsville, July 31-August 5. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Brownsville, Texas. 



cT cf 9 



(AUo- 

 (Type) (Para type) type) 



Length of body 17.6 15.4 16.2 



Length of pronotum 4. 4. 4.5 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pro- 

 notum • 2.7 2.7 3 . 



Length of tegmen 4. 3.7 1.5 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal 

 fields of tegmen (cf ) or of entire teg- 

 men ( 9 ) 2.8 2.7 2.1 



Length of cephalic femur 9.8 10.5 8.8 



Length of median femur 10.8 11. 9.5 



Length of caudal femur 22. 22. 



Length of ovipositor 8.9 



Color Notes. — As but the type and allotype of catinata have fully 

 retained their original coloration, the following notes are based en- 

 tireh' on them. 



Male (Type). General pattern consisting of a dorsal color, a 

 latero-ventral color and a pale pattern, the first covering the occiput, 

 the dorsum of the pronotum, humeral trunk, discoidal and greater 

 portion of anal fields of the tegmina and greater portion of the dorsum 

 of the abdomen. The tone of this color is between burnt sienna and 

 ■chestnut, that of the latero-ventral color cosse green, while the pale 

 pattern runs from creamy on the head to white on the tegmina and 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.,, 



pinard yellow on the abdomen, the latter pattern limited to a medio- 

 longitudinal occipital and fastigial thread, and paired bars extending 

 caudad from the eyes along the lateral margins of the disk and 

 margining laterad the dorsal color of the abdomen. Head with the 

 face, mouth-parts, gense, and much of the postocular region maize 

 yellow; eyes bay; antennae of the dorsal color proximad, passing into 

 antique brown with a few well-spaced moderately broad annuli of 

 seal brown. Pronotum with the pale bars slightly tinged with 

 greenish, in the*vicinity of the angle the caudal margin of the disk 

 and of the lobes is blackish. Tegmina with the marginal field wholly* 

 of the pale color, the distal portion of the discoidal field with the 

 base color blackish brown and the vein pattern of the general dorsal 

 color, anal field with the vicinity of the proximal two-thirds of the 

 anal vein broadly blackish brown, the proximal portion of the sutural 

 margin edged with same, median section of the anal field washed 

 with barita yellow. Dorsum of the abdomen with the median 

 portion of the segments having the base color weak and each segment 

 with a proximal area of pinard yellow (most decided proximad), 

 laterad the dorsal color is outlined with blackish, this latter oblique 

 and independent on each segment, the contiguous yellowish portion 

 of the pale pattern broken up in consequence. Disto-dorsal abdomi- 

 nal segment of the dorsal color, cerci mars yellow. Cephalic limbs 

 mars yellow, passing into the latero-ventral color proximad, the tarsi 

 clove brown. Median femora largely of the lateral color passing 

 into mars yellow, tarsi clove brown. Caudal femora of the lateral 

 color, passing distad into mars yellow with a decided genicular area 

 of blackish, pattern of pagina pronounced, but not extensive; caudal 

 tibiae seal brown dorsad, honey yellow ventrad, caudal tarsi seal 

 brown. 



Female (Allotype) . Nearly uniform light yellowish olive (probably 

 more vivid in life), passing into light bice green on the limbs, ap- 

 proaching forest green on the medio-longitudinal portion of the 

 caudal femora, the ventral carina of the same whitish. Pale lines 

 feebly indicated on the head and the cephalic portion of the pronotum ; 

 caudal margin of the pronotum with blackish as in the male; disk 

 of the pronotum with a faint medio-longitudinal thread of auburn, 

 which is intersected by a black spot at the crossing of the transverse 

 sulcus ; eyes auburn ; antennae aniline yellow passing into pyrite 

 yellow distad with a few scattered weak annul ations. Tegmina 

 weakly suffused with antique brown mesad. Abdomen with the 

 tegmina covering a blackish blotch. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Distribution. — The present species is only known from tlie vicinity 

 of Brownsville in the arid tropical Tamaulipan section of the lower 

 Rio Grande Valley, Texas. The range of the species unquestionably 

 extends south into Mexico. 



Biological Notes. — This form was numerous in vine-covered hedge:^ 

 and tangles near old Fort Brown, Brownsville, where they were 

 heard stridulating at numerous points about dusk, but they were 

 extremely difficult to secure, owing to their surroundings, as they 

 always sought refuge within the tangled hedges when approached. 

 The stridulation is a faint tsikh, repeated at intervals of about twice 

 th6 length of the note. 



Morphological Notes. — From the evidence of the two males, the 

 median width of the disk of the pronotum is seen to vary somewhat, 

 in the paratype this being as much as two-thirds the caudal width 

 of the disk. 



Specime7is Examined. — 4; 2 cf, 1 9,1c?' nymph. 

 Brownsville, Cameron Co., Texas, July^l-August 3, 1912, (R. and 

 H.), 2 cf, 1 9 , 1 cf nymph. Type, allotype and paratypes. 



Dichopetala tauriformis n. sp. * 



This is a very peculiar and distinct species having no close relation- 

 ship to any other form in the genus, in the female sex showing some 

 affinity to falcata and in the male sex approximating pollicifera more 

 nearly than anything else. The peculiar appendage of the supra-anal 

 plate of the male, the anomalous cerci, the strongly depressed median 

 section of which, together with the elongate aciculate tooth which is 

 peculiarly curved, and the unusual structure of the distal section of 

 the shaft, as well as the very decided peculiarities of the subgenital 

 plate at once distinguish the male sex, while in the female the ovi- 

 positor is proportionately the longest and heaviest in the genus, the 

 subgenital plate with its lateral trigonal lobes also being quite 

 different from that found in falcata. 



Type: cf ; Mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi, 

 Mexico. (Palmer.) [Scudder Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size above the average for the genus; form 

 moderately slender. Head with the occiput rather strongly declivent 

 to the fastigium and antennal scrobes; fastigium low, slightly com- 

 pressed, weakly sulcate dorsad, not touching the frontal fastigium; 

 eyes prominent, elongate ovoid, their length two-thirds that of the 

 infra-ocular portion of the gense. Pronotum weakly sellate, the 




144 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



dorsum moderately deplanate in transverse section; disk with the 

 lateral margins indicated by a weak angle as well as by color, angle 

 weakest mesad, arcuate inbowed, most approximate at the transverse 

 sulcus which is slightly cephalad of the middle; greatest caudal 

 width of dorsum about two-thirds the greatest length of same; 

 •cephalic margin subtruncate, very weakly emarginate mesad, caudal 

 margin very gently arcuato-emarginate ; transverse sulcus impressed 

 in, an obomegoid figure mesad, faint cephalic and caudal traces of a 



Fig. 43. — Dichopetala tauriformis n. sp. Lateral outline of type. (X 2.) 



hjngitudinal sulcus; lateral lobes of the pronotum with greatest 

 depth contained one and two-thirds times in the greatest dorsal 

 length of same, cephalic margin straight, ventro-cephalic angle 

 narrowly rounded rectangulate, ventral margin gently arcuato- 

 emarginate, the greatest depth of the lobes caudal, ventro-caudal 

 angle and caudal margin moderately arcuate except the dorsal por- 

 tion of the latter which is truncate. Tegmina somewhat inferior to 

 pronotum in length; costal margin straight, disto-costal angle well 



rounded, distal margin slightly oblique, 

 truncato-arcuate, sutural margin rect- 

 angularly produced at the extremity 

 of the stridulating vein, distal portion 

 of the same margin obliquely sinuato- 

 truncate; marginal field rather nar- 

 row, discoidal field regularly expand- 

 ing from the proximal third, anal vein 

 straight and not arcuate, anal field 

 with the greatest leagth but little more 

 than greatest width, stridulating vein slightly arcuate, tympanum 

 proper poorly defined. Alxlomen with lateral margins subparallel, 

 •disto-dorsal abdominal segment strongly transverse, the greatest 

 length of the same not more than one-fifth its greatest width, 



Figs. 44 and 45. — DichopclaUi 

 tauriformis n. sp. Dorsal out- 

 line of head, pronotum and teg- 

 mina of male (type ; 44) and 

 female (allotype : 45) . (X 2.) 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



Fig. 46. — Dichopetala 

 tauriformis n. sp. 

 Dorsal outline of 

 apex of abdomen 

 of male (type). 

 (X4.) 



caudal margin of the segment arcuato-sinuate, 

 slightly produced mesad into a low truncate lobe, 

 which is the hinge of the supra-anal plate, the 

 latter with the length subequal to the greatest 

 proximal width, lateral margins approximating 

 distad, distal margin broadly V-emarginate, lateral 

 angles slightly acute, from the dorsal surface of the 

 supra-anal plate immediately proximad of the 

 apex is erected a structure like the Greek letter T, 

 but with the cross bar slightly straighter; cerci 

 very complex, having first a semicircular transverse lamellate ridge 

 proximad, distad of which the whole cercus is depressed, obliquely 

 and strongly so toward the internal margin, that which we consider 

 t-he shaft proper directed meso-caudad, narrowing, strongly depressed, 

 the distal extremity bent inward at a right angle, apex acute, tooth 

 developed from the external margin but little distad of the base, 

 depressed proximad, there lamellate, becoming aciculate distad, 



curving dorsad and mesad, as long as the shaft; 

 subgenital plate greatly produced, reaching 

 nearly to the tips of the cerci, lateral mar- 

 gins regularly arcuato-concave, the distal ex- 

 tremity distinctly broader than the median 

 width, distal margin with a decided median 



Fig. \1 .—Dichopetala quadrate emargination, laterad of which the 

 tauriformisn. sp. Ven- • • i r i i. . i 



tral "outline of sub- margm is obliquely truncate, angles acute 



genital plate of male with the immediate angle blunted. Cephalic 

 ^^^ femora subequal to the length of the head, 



pronotum, and tegmina; cephalic tibiae -^ith elliptical foramina. 

 IMedian femora half the length of the caudal femora. Caudal 

 femora longer than the bod}^, moderately inflated, very gradually 

 tapering distad. , 



Allotype : 9 ; same data as the type. 



Description of Allotype. — The following points are those of differ- 

 ence from the type. Head with the occiput more roundly declivent. 

 Pronotum with the dorsum broader, the lateral margins of the disk 

 (which are indicated almost wholly by 

 color) nearly parallel to the transverse 

 sulcus, thence moderately diverging; 

 cephalic margin with the emargination 

 more decided, that of caudal margin less 

 decided; disk with almost no traces of 

 10 



Fig. 48. — Dichopetala tauriformis 

 n. sp. Outline of ovipositor. 

 (X3.) 




146 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Fig. 49. — Dichopetala tauriformis n. sp. Ven- 

 tral outline of subgenital plate of female 

 (allotype). (X 4.) 



pattern of transverse sulcus ; lateral lobes as in male. Tegmina very short, 

 broad, sutural margins decidedly overlapping, distal margin somewhat 

 oblique, arcuato-truncate. Supra-anal plate rotundato-trigonal ; cerci 



short, conic, apices slightly 

 elongate, acute; ovipositor 

 very robust, elongate, about 

 two-thirds as long as the 

 caudal femora, dorsal mar- 

 gin considerably arcuate, 

 more sharply so distad, ven- 

 tral margin straight except distad where it is decidedly arcuate, 

 dorsal margin with eight to nine teeth on the distal third, ventral 

 margin with seven to nine teeth on the distal fourth, those on the 

 latter faintly recurved distad; subgenital plate with the chitinous 

 portion completely divided, the lateral sections developed as acute 

 trigonal lobes slightly longer than broad. Cephalic femora very 

 slightly longer than the head and pronotum together. Median femora 

 subequal to the length of the head, pronotum, and tegmina to- 

 gether. Caudal femora subequal to the length of the body, mod- 

 erately robust (for the genus) . 



Paratypic Series. — We consider all of the material before us, other 

 than the type and allotype (three males and seven females), para- 

 typic. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Twelve leagues 



east of San Luis 



Potosi, Mex. 



(Type.) (Paratype.) 



Length of body 16.5 15.2 



Length of pronotum . 3.9 3.7 



Greatest caudal width 



of disk of pronotum. 3. 3. 



Length of tegmen 3.5 3.5 



Greatest width of dis- 

 coidal and anal fields 

 of tegmen 3.2 3.1 



Length of cephalic fe- 

 mur 7.9 7.3 



Length of median fe- 

 mur 9.9 9.5 



Lengtli of (;audal fe- 

 mur 19.7 18.5 



c^c^ 




1914 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



9 9 

 Twelve leagues east of 

 San Luis Potosi, Mex. 



(Allotype.) (Paratypes.) 



Length of body 17. 19.2 21.5 



Length of pronotum 4. 4.6 4.7 



Greatest caudal width of disk of prono- 

 tum 3.3 3.7 '4. 



Length of tegmen 1.3 1.5 1.2 



Greatest width of tegmen 3. 3.2 3. 



Length of cephaHc femur 6. 7.1 8. 



Length of median femur 7.4 8.6 9.5 



Length of caudal femur 17. 18.2 20.6 



Length of ovipositor 10.8 12. 12.8 



9 9 



Sierra de 



San Miguelito, Mex. Average 



Alvarez, Mex. (Paratypes.) of five 



(Paratype.) , . paratypes. 



Length of body 20.4 15.5 16.8 18.7 



Length of pronotum 4.5 4.3 4.4 4.5 



Greatest caudal width of disk 



of pronotum 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.6 



Length of tegmen 1.5 1.7 1.2 1.4 



Greatest ^vidth of tegmen 3. 2.6 2.9 2.9 



Length of cephalic femur 7.1 7.3 7.5 7.4 



Length of median femur 8.2 8.4 8.6 



Length of caudal femur 17.2 19.2 18.5 18.7 



Length of ovipositor 12.3 11. 11.3 11.8 



Color Notes. — This species has the usual intensive and recessive 

 extremes, the former of which has a dorsal color much darker than 

 the lateral one, in the recessive extreme there being almost no differ- 

 ence in tone between the lateral and dorsal colors. As far as present 

 material goes, the extremes are almost equally marked in the two 

 sexes and the tones are very similar in both. We here give the 

 colors as found in the material, but as none of it has been stuffed 

 there is a strong probability that the greens, at least, have lost much 

 of their intensity. Dorsal color varying from sulphine yellow 

 (extreme in the females alone) to dull maroon (intensive of both 

 sexes), traces of the latter being present in the recessive males,^' 

 while this color is solid and pure on the head and disk of the pronotum 

 of intensive individuals of both sexes. On the dorsum of the abdomen 



29 Possibly the recessive condition in the male is wholly due to desiccation, 

 the original dorsal color being left in patches. We, however, do not feel con- 

 vinced that this is the case, as the general tonal correlation of what we consider 

 the recessive male is essentially the same as in the undoubtedly recessive females. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



this intensive color is only pure laterad, mesad the tone being aniline 

 yellow to sulphine yellow, thickly and closely stippled with maroon. 

 The lateral maroon bordering lines are narrowly present in even the 

 recessive males as well as faintly indicated in the recessive females. 

 Lateral color varying from sulphine yellow to buffy citrine, the males 

 being almost all sulphine yellow, particularly pure in the intensive 

 males. Pale lateral lines very narrow, more or less indicated in all, 

 varying from creamy white to maize j^ellow, rarely touched ^vith 

 orange pink, extending from the caudal margin of the eye to the base 

 of the cercus. Eyes varying from chamois (recessive male) and buffy 

 citrine (recessive female) to old gold (intensive male) and cinnamon 

 bro\\ii (intensive female). Antennae varying much the same as the 

 dorsal color. Tegmina of male largely oil green, the proximal 

 portion of the humeral trunk blackish, large portion of anal field 

 washed with warm sepia, marginal field shell pink; temina of female 

 with discoidal field oil green, anal field similar, occasionally (intensive 

 female [allotjrpe]) washed with maroon, marginal field shell pink to 

 ochre red. Ovipositor varying with the dorsal color. Limbs varying 

 from pois green to grape green, occasionally washed with purplish 

 vinaceous on median and cephalic pair in recessive specimens, of the 

 same greatly suffused, lined and spotted with maroon in intensive 

 individuals. The latter condition is very decided in its extreme, the 

 femora having nearly solid pregenicular patches dorsad, while the 

 distal extremities of the tibiae and all of the tarsi are suffused with 

 maroon. The type and allotype are in the extreme intensive con- 

 dition, which is shared or approximated by several other specimens. 



Distribution. — The present species is known only from three locali- 

 ties in the state of San Luis Potosi in the east-central portion of the 

 Mexican tableland: Sierra de San Miguelito, mountains twelve 

 leagues east of San Luis Potosi city, and mountains at Alvarez. The 

 first-mentioned locality we are unable to locate, so its altitude cannot 

 be given, but it probably has much the same elevation as the other 

 localities, which range between five and six thousand feet. Alvarez 

 is on the upper course of the Rio Verde, a head tributary of the 

 Rio Panuco, east of the city of San Luis Potosi. 



Morphological Notes. — The tegmina of the male show variation in 

 the angulation of the sutural margin and in the character of the 

 distal margin. The latter is more arcuate in one specimen than in 

 the type and in one paratypic male it is more truncate. The curve 

 of the stridulating vein also varies somewhat. The stalked process 

 on the male subgenital plate in one paratype is similar to that of 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



the type, while in the others the head of the process is more 

 or less expanded with the distal margin arcuate. The anomalous 

 cerci seem to vary little or not at all, while the subgenital plate varies 

 only in that the quadrate emargination of the distal margin is re- 

 placed by a V-shaped emargination in one paratj-pe. The female 

 shows variation chief!}' in the robustness of the ovipositor, although 

 this is not as pronounced as in some other species of the genus. 



Remarks. — The structure of the apex of the abdomen in the male 

 of this species and the very heav>' ovipositor of the female are char- 

 acters which serve to easily distinguish the present peculiar form. 

 There is no approach to the genital structure of the male in any of 

 the other forms of the genus, except that th» tooth springs from the 

 external margin of the shaft of the cercus in this and in poUicifera, 

 which similarity is somewhat augmented by the general form of the 

 pronotum and tegmina, but there the analog}' ceases, as the details of 

 the abdominal appendages and of the tegmina are quite different. 

 The female sex, however, shows no close affinity to poUicifera, while it 

 does have much in common with falcata, to which the male sex shows 

 no affinity. 



Specimens Examined. — 12; 4 males, 8 females.. 



Mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, 

 (Palmer), 2 cf, 4 9. Type, allotj-pe, and paratj'pes. [Scudder 

 Collection.] 



Sierra de San IMiguelito, state of San Luis Potosi, ^Mexico, (Palmer), 

 2 cf , 3 9 . Paratypes. [Scudder Collection.] 



Mountains at Alvarez, state of San Luis Potosi, ^lexico, (Palmer), 

 1 9 . Paratype. [Scudder Collection.] 



Dichopetala tridactyla n. sp. 



This species can be immediately separated in the male sex from all 

 of the species of the genus, except D. caudelli, by the peculiar appen- 

 chculate character of the cercus, while from caudelli it can be separated 

 in the male sex by the shorter tegmina, the verj^ brief distal portion 

 of the anal. field of the same, by the sutural margin of the tegmina 

 being strongly produced at the apex of the stridulating vein and by 

 the more elongate median tooth of the cercus. In the female sex 

 tridactyla can be separated from caudelli by the shorter ovipositor 

 and blunter apices to the lobes of the subgenital plate. 



Type: cf" ; -Camacho, Zacatecas, ^Mexico. November, 1877. (Law- 

 rence Bruner.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size small. Head with the occiput well 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



rounded, regularly descending to the fastigium and antennal scrobes; 

 fastigium slightly elevated, compressed, linear, rounded at the apex 

 when seen from the side, not touching the frontal fastigium^ eyes 

 very prominent, subglobose, depth about one and one-half times that 

 of the infra-ocular portion of the gense; antennae with the proximal 

 joints large, slightly depressed. Pronotum sellate, dorsal length 

 little greater than caudal width of dorsum of same and distinctly 

 less than greatest ventral width of pronotum across lateral lobes; 

 cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin very slightly arcuato- 

 emarginate; lateral margins of disk slightly marked caudad by 

 rounded angles, elsewhere by color only, the general form of same 

 considerably narrowed mesad; transverse sulcus severing lateral 

 margins of disk mesad, represented on the disk by a median trans- 

 verse impression placed at the caudal third, but not connected with 

 the sulci severing the lateral margins of the disk; lateral lobes with 

 greatest depth contained about one and one-half times in the dorsal 

 length of the same, cephalic margin of the lobes arcuato-emarginate, 



Fig. .50. — Dichopetala tridactyla n. sp. Lateral outline of type (male). (X 3.) 



ventro-cephalic angle narrowly rotundato-rectangulate, ventral 

 margin slightly sinuato-truncate, ventro-caudal angle and caudal 

 margin very broadly arcuate. Tegmina slightly shorter than the 

 pronotum, broad, the width of the discoidal and anal fields subequal 

 to the tegminal length; costal margin slightly arcuate, disto-costal 

 angle rounded, distal margin moderately arcuate, passing into the 

 sutural margin, latter strongly rotundato-rectangularly produced at 

 the apex of the stridulating vein, distal portion of the sutural margin 

 strongly oblique; marginal field rather narrow, discoidal field short, 

 strongly ex])anding distad, anal field very broad. Abdomen with 

 lateral margins of segments subparallel, jiroximal segments sub- 

 tectate; disto-dorsal abdominal segment with the distal margin 

 arcuato-truncate, considerably arcuato-emarginate at the dorsal 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



Figs. 51 and 52. ^Dorsal out- 

 line of head, pronotum and 

 tegmina of males (types) of 

 Dichopetala tridaclyla (51) 

 and D.caudelli (52). (X 3.) 



base of the cerci; cerci trifid, from the 

 dorsal base projects an arcuate subequal 

 blunt digitiforni lobe, which in general 

 follows the curve of the shaft of the 

 cercus'when seen from the dorsum and 

 when viewed from the lateral aspect is 

 subparallel with the same, not quite 

 reaching the apex of the median tooth, 

 latter diverging proximad of the middle, 

 moderately acute, tapering, slightly de- 

 pressed, diverging moderately disto- 

 dorsad, subequal to half the length of the shaft of the cercus distad 

 of the tooth, shaft very robust proximad of the divergence of the 

 tooth, falciform, strongly depressed, triquetrous, margins sharp, 

 apex acute, tapering for a short distance proximad of apex; subgenital 



plate large, cymbiform, moder- 

 ately produced, distal margin 

 broadly and rather deeply 

 V-emarginate, lateral angles 

 moderately acute. Cephalic fe- 

 mora slightly less than half the 

 length of the caudal femora; 

 cephalic tibise with tympanum 

 elliptical. Median femora subequal to one-half the length of the 

 caudal femora. Caudal femora about one and one-half times the 

 length of the body, moderately inflated proximad. 



Allotype : 9 ; data the same as 

 the type. 



Description of Allotype. — Size 

 medium; form robust (for the 

 genus). Head broad, form of 

 occiput and fastigium as in the 

 male, the latter, however, not as 

 compressed; eyes prominent, 

 more ovate than in the male, depth of eye contained about one 

 and one-half times in that of the infra-ocular portion of the gense. 

 Pronotum in general form similar to that of the male, but less 

 sellate, non-depressed mesad; caudal margin of disk subtruncate; 

 lateral margins of disk hardly indicated even caudad; trans- 

 verse sulcus as in male, the median discal remnant of same less 

 distinct and V-shaped ; lateral lobes with greatest depth contained 



Figs. 53 and 54. Outline of left cercus 

 of males (types) of Dichopetala tri- 

 daclyla (53) and D. caudelli (54). 

 (X8.) 



Figs. 55 and 56. — Ventral outline of 

 subgenital plate of males (types) of 

 Dichopetala tridactyla (55) and D. 

 caudelli {5Q). (X 8.) 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Figs. 57 and 58. — Ventral outline 

 of subgenital plate of females 

 (allotypes) of Dichopeiala tridac- 

 tyla (57) and D. caudelli (58). 

 (X5.) 



nearly one and one-half times in greatest dorsal length of same, 

 margins of lobes as in male, but the cephalic truncate and not 



emarginate. Tegmina very short, 

 over twice as wide as the apparent 

 length, costal margin arcuate with 

 the distal portion more or less 

 truncate; interspace between teg- 

 mina slightly more than half the 

 width of a single tegmen. Abdo- 

 men somewhat compressed, proximal 

 segments tectate dorsad; supra-anal plate moderately produced, 

 rounded; cerci very short, conic; ovipositor slightly surpassing the 

 length of the median femora, moderately arcuate, more sharply 

 so distad, robust, dorsal mar- 

 gin faintly flattened mesad, 

 distal third of same margin 

 armed with six distinct teeth, 

 increasing in length distad, 

 ventral margin very weakly 

 arcuate except in the distal 

 third where the arcuation is 

 decided, there armed with six 

 to seven short slightly re- 

 curved teeth; subgenital plate 

 divided into two parts, as far as the chitinous structure is concerned, 

 these connected mesad for a third of their length by soft integument, 

 the lateral halves of the plate subovoid-trigonal, the apices bluntly 

 angulate: Cephalic femora about one and two-thirds times the length 

 of the disk of the pronotum. Median femora slightly less than half 

 the length of the caudal femora. "Caudal femora robust (for the 

 genus), considerably inflated. 



Parqtypic Series. — All of the material belonging to this species 

 now before us, in addition to the type and allotype, is considered 

 paratypic — four males, fifteen females. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Camacho, Mexico. 



Figs. 59 and 60. — Outline of ovipositor of 

 females (allotypes) of Dichopetala tridac- 

 tyla (59) and D. caudelli (60). (X 4.) 



(Type) 



Length of body 10.8 



Length of pronotum 2.8 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 2 . 1 



Average of four 

 paratypic 



11.3(11.2-11.7) 

 3. ( 2.9- 3.1) 

 2.5f 2.5- 2.6) 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153: 



Camacho, Mexico. 



• , 



Average of four 

 (Type) paratypic 



Length of tegmen 2.6 2.6(2.5-2.6) 



Greatest width of discoidal and anal 



fields of tegmen 2.3 2.6(2.4-2.7) 



Length of cephalic femur 7. 7.1(7.-7.5) 



Length of median femur 7.5 8. (7.4-8.4) 



Length of caudal femur 15 . 16 . 3 (15 . 2-17 . 1) • 



Camacho, Mexico. 



Average of four 



(Allotype) paratypic 



9 9 9 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 15.5 15 . 3 (14 . 7-17 . ) 



Length of pronotum 4.3 3.8(3.4-4. ) 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum 3.7 3.1(2.9-3.2) 



Apparent length of tegmen 9 1- ( .9-1.1) 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.1 1.9(1.8-2.) 



Length of cephalic femur 7.1 6.7(6.5-7. ) 



Length of median femur 8.2 7.6(7.1-8.3) 



Length of caudal femur 18.2 17.1(16. 3-18 . 3) 



Length of ovipositor 8.3 8.1(7.8-8.8) 



From these measurements it is evident that the type is distinctly 

 under the average in size, while the allotype is considerably over the 

 average for the female sex, both showing in certain proportions the 

 minimum and maximum proportions, respectively, for their sexes. 

 The selection of the type and allotype was based solely on the con- 

 dition of the specimens, so no size factors were considered in the 

 matter. It is apparent from the above evidence that there is con- 

 siderable individual variation in size in the species. 



Color Notes. — As none of the material belonging to this species^ 

 has been stuffed, we are compelled to take the colors found at their 

 face value, although doubtless some have altered very materially. 

 The pattern of both sexes consists of a more or less uniform dorsal 

 color involving a variable portion of the occiput, dorsum of the 

 pronotum, dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum and 

 dorsum of the abdomen, and a pale lateral color which involves the- 

 face, gense, ventral portion of the lateral lobes, and lateral aspect of 

 the abdomen, the latter color always (cf) or frequently (9) modi- 

 fied in extent and tint. 



Male. Dorsal color varying from prout's brown to clove bromi, 

 most decided near its lateral borders on the abdomen. Lateral color 

 varying from buckthorn brown to dresden brown, the ventral half 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



■of the lateral lobes of the abdomen and the marginal field of the 

 tegmina creamy white in intensive specimens; paired lateral lines 

 on the abdomen (in the usual position of pale lines in the genus) 

 contrasted with a wash of the doj-sal color on the proximo-ventral 

 portion of the abdomen. Head with narrow postocular lines and a 

 medio-longitudinal thread on the occiput and fastigium creamy 

 white, in intensive individuals the dorsal color covering much of the 

 postocular portion of the genge; eyes varying from dresden brown to 

 cinnamon brown; antennae ferruginous dorsad, ventral surface 

 mahogany red to chestnut. Pronotum with the caudal section of 

 the disk washed with auburn, continuations of the postocular lines, 

 converging to the transverse sulcus and diverging caudad of the same, 

 subobsolete near the caudal margin, varying from creamy white 

 to buff yellow; dorsal color more or less strongly clouding an obliquely 

 delimited dorsal section of the lateral lobes, ventral section of same 

 •creamy white. Tegmina with the discoidal and anal fields with a 

 blackish-brown base, over which the veins are outlined in ochraceous 

 orange, the greater portion of the sutural margin washed with hay's 

 russet. Distal half of the appendiculate lobe of the cerci infuscate 

 with the dorsal color in intensive individuals. Limbs varying from 

 old gold to olive lake, more or less generally infuscate with chestnut 

 brown, most decided ventrad and there linear in pattern; caudal 

 femora with a pair of fine blackish lines on the ventral portion of the 

 lateral face; tibise more or less lime green. 



Female. Dorsal color ranging from argus brown to dark mummy 

 brown; lateral color ranging from creamy white to dresden brown, 

 the latter in recessive individuals and there very poorly separated 

 from the dorsal shade. Head with pale lines less distinctly indicated 

 than in the male sex, the extreme intensive individual having the 

 greater portion of the head opaline green. In the average individuals 

 the abdomen has no decidedly indicated lateral bars dorsad margining 

 the dorsal color, but in the intensive specimens these bars are decided 

 creamy white, of variable width and the lateral base of the abdomen 

 is contrastingly washed with the dorsal color. Pronotum as in the 

 male, but nearly uniform in recessive individuals. Tegmina varying 

 from nearly uniform with the lateral color to blackish bro^vn, with the 

 venation of the lateral color, in the intensive extreme having the 

 •costal portion of the latter color. Ovipositor varying from citrine 

 to orange-citrin(^ distal portion infuscate in some specimens. Limbs 

 varying from viridine green (in this the femora pale bluish white 

 proximad) to cosse green, marked much as in the male, but with the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



infuscation more or less tessellate or marmorate, linear and punctate 

 in character. 



Distribution. — The present species is only known from two localities 

 in the central portion of the Mexican tableland — Camacho, Zacatecas, 

 and Jimulco, Coahuila. Its vertical distribution is apparently from 

 somewhat below five thousand to about six thousand feet. 



Morphological Notes. — In the male sex the only morphological 

 variation worth noting is that of the degree of arcuation of the 

 margins of the distal excision of the subgenital plate. In the type 

 these margins are straighter than in the others of the sex, but in all 

 they are more or less arcuate toward the angles. In the female sex 

 the ovipositor varies appreciably in robustness without correlation 

 •with the general size. 



Remarks. — The present species and D. caudelli constitute a very 

 distinct section of the genus, having no close relationship to any of 

 the other forms. 



Specimens Examined. — 21; 5 males, 16 females. 



Camacho, Zacatecas, Mexico, November, 1887, (Lawrence 

 Bruner), 5 cf, 14 9. Type, allotype, and paratypes. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Jimulco, Coahuila, Mexico, November, (Lawrence Bruner), 2 9 . 

 Paratypes. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Dichopetala caudelli n. sp. 



This species is close to D. tridactijla, but can be readily separated 

 in the male sex by the distinctly longer tegmina, the more normal 

 distal portion of the anal field of the same, the sutural margin of which 

 is but little produced at the apex of the stridulating vein and by 

 the shorter median tooth of the cercus, while in the female the 

 slightly longer ovipositor and acute apices to the lobes of the sub- 

 genital plate enable one to distinguish the present form. The 

 species is similar to tridactyla in the majority of the characters, so 

 we have made our description in large part comparative. When not 

 mentioned specifically, the structure is understood to be similar to 

 that in tridactyla. 



Type: cf ; San Luis Potosi, state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

 (Palmer.) [Scudder Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size and form as in tridactyla. Head as in 

 tridactyla. Pronotum with the caudal margin of the disk very slightly 

 arcuate, disk itself (indicated by color) broader mesad than in tridac- 

 tyla, the lateral borders of the same less sharply diverging cephalad 

 iind caudad; transverse sulcus severing the lateral borders of the 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



disk mesad, forming a V-shaped figure near the caudal third of the 

 disk; caudal margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum obliquely 

 subtruncate, ventro-caudal angles of lobes rounded. Tegmina 

 appreciably longer than the dorsum of the pronotum, width of dis- 

 coidal and anal fields slightly less than the length of same; costal 

 margin considerably arcuate, distal margin obliquely arcuato-truncate, 

 sutural margin obtuse-angulate at the extremity of the stridulating. 

 vein, appreciably sinuate distad of the same; discoidal field less 

 sharply expanded than in tridadyla. Cerci with the appendicular 

 lobe straighter tha-n in tridachjla, slightly expanded distad, median 

 tooth short, depressed, when seen from the dorsum with the margin 

 rounded and not acute, acute distal extremity of the shaft of the 

 cercus slightly shorter and more regularly tapering than in tridadyla; 



Fig. 61. — Dichopelala caudelli n. sp. Lateral outline of type (male). (X 3.) 



subgenital plate with distal margin more deeply V-emarginate than in 

 tridadyla, the margins of the excision slightly arcuate, the lateral 

 angles quite acute. Limbs as in tridadyla, but cephalic and median 

 femora very slightly slenderer. 



Allotype: 9 ; Mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi, 

 state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. (Palmer.) [Scudder Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Differing from the allotype of tridadyla 

 in the characters here described. Form and size as in tridadyla. 

 Head as in tridadyla. Pronotum as in tridadyla, but with the disk 

 broader mesad, the margins (indicated almost wholly by color) very 

 slightly narrowing to the transverse sulcus, thence moderately diverg- 

 ing caudad; caudal margin of disk gently arcuate; transverse 

 sulcus more continuous than in tridadyla, but weak mesad; lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum shallower than in tridadyla, the greatest depth 

 contained nearly twice in the greatest dorsal length of the same, 

 margins similar. Tegmina similar to those of tridadyla. AbdonienL. 

 very similar to that of tridadyla; ovipositor slightly more robust 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



157 



.and slightly more elongate, teeth of distal portion slightly longer; 

 subgenital plate completely divided to the base, lateral halves nar- 

 rower than in tridactyla and more acute distad. Cephalic femora 

 iilmost twice the length of the disk of the pronotum. Median femora 

 slightly more than twice the length of the pronotal disk. 'Caudal 

 femora very slightly more than twice the length of the median 

 femora. 



Paratypic Series. — We have designated as paratypes two males 

 and two females from the type locality, and one male and four female 

 from the mountains at Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



San Luis Potosi, 



Mex. 



(Type.) 



Length of body 11. 



Length of pronotum 2.9 



'Greatest caudal width of 



disk of pronotum 2 . 2 



Length of tegmen 3.2 



'Greatest width of discoidal 



and anal fields of tegmen 2 . 7 



Length of cephalic femur 8 . 



Length of median femur 8 . 9 



Length of caudal femur 16 . 2 



(Paratypes.) 



Alvarez, Mex. 

 . (Paratype.) 



11.6 

 3. 



2.5 

 3.4 



16.3 



12.3 

 2.9 



2.2 

 3.3 



2.7 



'8"9 

 18.3 



14. 

 3. 



2.5 

 3.3 



3. 



9. 

 18.4 



Average 

 of three 

 para- 

 types. 



12.6 

 3. 



2.4 

 3.3 



2.8 



8. 

 17, 



9 9 

 Twelve leagues San Luis 

 east of San Luis Potosi, 



Potosi, Mex. Mex. 



(Allotype.) (Paratype.) 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor) 15. 



Length of pronotum 4 . 



-Greatest caudal width of pronotum 3 . 2 



Length of tegmen 8 



'Greatest width of tegmen 1 . 5 



Length of cephalic femur 7.7 



Length of median femur 9. 



Xength of caudal femur 19. 



Length of ovipositor 8 . 5 



Alvarez, Mex. 



(Paratypes.) 



9 9 



Xength of body (exclusive of 



ovipositor) 15. 16. 15.2 



Xength of pronotum 4.1 4.2 4.3 



16.5 

 4.1 

 3. 

 1.2 

 2. 



"8"4 

 19. 

 8.5 



Average of 

 four para- 

 types. 



15.6 

 4.2 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



9 9 



Alvarez, Mex. Average of 



(Paratypes.) four para- 



• . types. 



Greatest caudal width of pro- 



notum 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.2 



Length of tegmen 1. 1. 1.1 . 1. 



Greatest width of tegmen 1.8 1.8 2. 1.9 



Length of cephaUc femur 7.4 7.6 7.4 7.4 



Length of median femur 8.5 9. 8.9 8.7 



Length of caudal femur 18.5 18.8 18.1 18.6 



Length of ovipositor 9. 9.2 9. 8.9 



Color Notes. — In recessive individuals this species is unicolorous, 

 while in intensive individuals the dorsal color is distinctly darker 

 than the lateral, and pale paired bars are more or less decidedly indi- 

 cated in all but the extreme recessive specimens. The extreme 

 recessive condition is represented by one female, closely approached 

 by another of the same sex and less closely by a male. The extreme 

 intensive condition is represented by one male and one female and 

 approached by three other females. The type is nearly intermediate 

 between the extremes, but slightly nearer the intensive condition; 

 the allotype approaches the intensive condition, but is not typical 

 of it. The extreme recessive condition ( 9 ) is uniform light brownish 

 olive except for the tegmina. The extreme intensive condition in 

 the male has the dorsal color maroon along the lateral margins of the 

 area on the head, disk of pronotum, and abdomen, paling to cedar 

 green and weak buff yellow (on abdomen only) mesad, while in the 

 female the general tone of the dorsum is tawny, washed with claret 

 brown caudad on each abdominal segment and margined laterad 

 by the same. The suffusing color of the dorsum is largely produced 

 by stippling and the extreme margins of the pronotum and abdominal 

 segments are of the color of the pale lateral lines beaded with the 

 suffusing tone. The dorsal color of the male ranges through old 

 gold with weakly indicated blackish lateral margins, of the female 

 through kildare green finely sprinkled with maroon. Pale lateral 

 lines varying from chalk white to weak orange pink (in part only and 

 in the intensive male), narrow in the female and l)road in the male, 

 cover the entire marginal field of the tegmina in both sexes. 

 In the male these lines are crenulate on the al)domen, while in the 

 female they are more or less obliquely offset on each segment. Lateral 

 color of male varying from yellowish olive green (intensive extreme) 

 to chamois (recessive extreme), in the female from the recessive 

 extreme with it uniform with the dorsum to the intensive extreme 




1914.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159' 



which has it sayal brown, the segments of the abdomen stippled and 

 beaded as on the dorsum, the lateral lobes of the pronotum touched 

 with mignonette green in this type. Head with the eyes varying 

 from cinnamon buff to snuff brown. Pronotum with the lateral 

 lobes edged with the color of the pale bars in all but the recessive 

 females, in one of the intensive females there being a considerable 

 area of chalky white on the ventral portion of the lobes. Tegmina 

 of male with the humeral trunk claret brown to bay, discoidal field 

 varying from yellowish olive green to cosse green, anal field sharing, 

 the same tone, but more or less oil green mesad with the proximal 

 portion more or less mahogany red. Tegmina of the female divided 

 between the dorsal and lateral color with the region of the humeral 

 trunk claret brown to bay. Limbs almost wholly of the lateral color, 

 occasionally more greenish in tone, in intensive individuals more or 

 less washed, lined and stippled (particularly on cephalic and median 

 pair) with claret brown. Dorsal aspect of the cerci of male washed 

 with claret brown. Ovipositor with teeth blackish. 



Distribution. — This species, as far as known, has a limited range in 

 the east-central portion of the Mexican tableland, occurring at three 

 localities in the state of San Luis Potosi: San Luis Potosi City and 

 hills near the same, mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi 

 and mountains at Alvarez. The latter locality is south of the upper 

 course of the Rio Verde, a tributary of the Rio Panuco which empties 

 into the Gulf of Mexico near Tampico. As far as we are able to 

 determine from several topographic maps, the localities are situated 

 between five thousand and six thousand two hundred feet elevation. 



Morphological Notes. — In the female sex there is some little varia- 

 tion in the shape of the caudal margin of the disk of the pronotum, - 

 this ranging from gently arcuate to sinuato-truncate. The inter- 

 space between the tegmina also varies considerably in width in the 

 same sex, in the greatest extreme being subequal in width to a single 

 tegmen. The ovipositor varies slightly but appreciably in depth 

 and in the number of teeth on the dorsal margin (6 to 8). 



Remarks. — We take pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. 

 A. N. Caudell, of the United States National Museum, who called 

 our attention to the peculiar cerci of the male sex. 



Specime7is Exaynined. — 12; 4 males, 8 females. 



San Luis Potosi, Mexico, (Palmer), 3 cf, Type and paratypes^ 

 1 9 . [Scudder Collection and U. S. N. M.] 



Hills near San Luis Potosi, Mexico, October 15, (Palmer), 2 9- 

 Paratypes. [Scudder Collection.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, 

 (Palmer),! 9. Allotype. [Scudder Collection.] 



Mountains at Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico, (Palmer), 1 cT, 

 4 9 . Paratypes. [Scudder Collection and U. S. N. M.] 




1914.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



mimicry in north american butterflies: a reply, 

 by edward b. poulton, d.sc, m.a. oxon. 



Contents. 



PAGE 



Introduction 161 



1. The Attacks of Birds on Butterflies and the Theories of Mimicry 161 



2. Haase's Name ''Pharmacophagus" and his Hypothesis that Mimicked 



Butterflies (Models) derive Nauseous Quahties from the Larval 

 Food-plants 162 



3. Indirect Evidence that Pharmacophagus philenor is a Model possessing 



Distasteful Qualities 16.5 



4. The attempt to explain Mimetic Resemblance as due to Affinity 



between Model and Mimic 167 



5. Sexual Dimorphism (Antigeny of Scudder) and Mimicry 168 



6. The Female of Neophasia terlooti, another North American Mimic of 



Danaida plexippus 172 



7. The Colored Pigments of the Pierince as iUustrated by Neophasia 176 



S. The Restriction of Sex-limited Inheritance to the Mimetic Pattern of 



Neophasia terlooti .' 177 



9. The Evolution of Limenitis {Basilarchia) archippus from an Ancestor 



with a Pattern like that of L. (B.) arthemis... 178 



10. The Relation of the Pattern of Limenitis obsoleta (hulsti) to that of 



archippus, arthemis and weidemeyeri 180 



11. The Male Genital Armature of the North American forms of Limenitis 190 



12. Similar Environmental Conditions versus Mimicry as an Interpreta- 



tion of Color Resemblances 192 



Certain criticisms of the theories of mimicrj- and warning colors 

 have recently appeared in the publications of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and it is, I think, a convenience 

 that the controversy should be continued in the same channel. 

 The occasion also enables me to contribute in, I hope, an appropriate 

 way to the publications of the great and learned society with which I 

 have the honor and pleasure of being specially associated. 



In the present paper I propose to deal with the friendly criticisms 

 contained in Dr. Henry Skinner's paper (32). It will be most 

 convenient, I think, to consider the author's arguments under 

 separate heads, which I have arranged as far as possible in the same 

 order as that adopted in his memoir. 



1. The Attacks of Birds on Butterflies and the Theories of 



Mimicry. 



The believers in these theories, both Batesian and Miillerian, will 

 cordially agree with Dr. Skinner as to the paramount importance 

 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jail., 



of showing "that birds are in the habit of eating butterflies and that 

 some butterflies are poisonous or nauseous to them and others not." 

 (33, p. 121.) It niust be admitted also that we require vastly more 

 evidence than we at present possess. But evidence is accumulating 

 steadily, and some of the best has been forthcoming in recent years. 

 I may refer especially to Mr. S. A. Neave's observation (30) on 

 January 12, 1912, of a Wagtail devouring Lycsenid and Pierine 

 butterflies, but rejecting an Acraea, in the bed of a forest stream near 

 Entebbe, Uganda. 



Dr. Skinner, in a more recent paper (34, p. 25) refers to the fact that 

 the Biological Survey of the United States examined fifty thousand 

 bird stomachs and only found butterflies in five of them. Mr. 

 C. F. M. Swynnerton has quite lately thrown much light on this 

 method of investigation (33). He is convinced, as the result of 

 recent work at Chirinda, Gazaland, southeast Rhodesia, "that 

 conclusions based on stomach-examination are likely to be fallacious, 

 unless that examination has been so thorough and minute that even 

 such small objects as the scales of Lepidoptera must have been 

 detected if present, even in small numbers, in either stomach or 

 intestines, unless a very large series has been so examined for each 

 species, and unless, finally, a note had been made at the time of the 

 shooting of each specimen as to the probable proportions in which 

 insects of various kinds were present at the moment." Mr. Swyn- 

 nerton's paper was especially intended as a reply to Mr. G. L. Bates 

 (35), whose statements are quoted by Dr. Skinner (33, p. 122). 

 I have treated this subject very briefly and inadequately because 

 I hope to return to it in a later paper dealing with the attacks made 

 by Mr. W. L. McAtee in a memoir (38) written in a very different 

 spirit from that of Dr. Skinner. 



2. Haase's Name "Pharmacophagus" and his Hypothesis that 



Mimicked Butterflies (Models) derive Nauseous 



Qualities from the Larval Food-plants. 



Dr. Skinner, influenced by my use of Haase's term " Pharmaco- 

 phagus," is apparently under the impression that I am a convinced 

 follower of his hypothesis. This is by no means the case. In a 

 review (14) of Haase's work (13) I expressed the opinion, to which 

 I still adhere, that the hypothesis is probably true — although as yet 

 (juite unproved — for some distasteful species, but that it is certainly 

 not true of others. Rothschild and Jordan (30, 433-4), following 

 Horsfield (l) and Haasc (9), have shown that the PapilioninoB are 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



divisible into three well-marked sections differing in larval, pupal 

 and imaginal characters. They give descriptive titles to each of the 

 sections, but do not suggest names which can be used at any rate 

 provisionally as genera. In the meantime, it is highly inconvenient 

 to include in the genus Papilio the species of all three groups. For 

 this reason, and for this reason alone, I provisionally adopted Haase's 

 Pharmacophagus for the "Aristolochia swallowtails," his Papilio 

 for the ''Fluted swallowtails," and his Cosmodesmus for the "Kite 

 swalloA\i,ails." 



I am quite ready to abandon any or all of these when it is proved 

 that the three groups may be referred to by other names with a 

 prior claim, and, under any circumstances, Haase's terms cannot, 

 with their present meaning, permanently stand for genera, because, 

 as I learn from Dr. Jordan, each of the three sections is a much 

 larger group which must itself be split up into genera. Furthermore, 

 I do not, as Dr. Skinner states on p. 124, accept any conclusions or 

 use any argument based on the meaning of the word when I pro- 

 visionally employ ^'Pharmacophagus" as the name of a genus of the. 

 Papilios, and I do not think that any words of mine can be quoted 

 which will bear out Dr. Skinner's interpretation. 



Inasmuch as Haase's hypothesis occupies so large a place in 

 Dr. Skinner's memoir, I venture to offer a few remarks upon the idea 

 itself as well as upon some of the author's criticisms. 



The great majority of the pigments possessed l^y plant-eating 

 insects are built up in the laboratory of the living organism, in spite 

 of the fact that the larval food is rich in chlorophyll. Nevertheless, 

 this color exists ready-made, and certain insects have been specially 

 adapted to avail themselves of it and thus to gain certain pigments. 

 I proved this many years ago by spectroscopic examination as well 

 as in other ways (3, 4), including experiments in which larvae were fed 

 upon parts of leaves devoid of chlorophyll (lO) — experiments recently 

 repeated with confirmatory results upon different species by Prof. 

 W. Garstang (34). I think it probable that nauseous or poisonous 

 substances, when they exist in a plant or in a group of allied plants, 

 may be employed by certain species which are restricted to it or 

 them; but as yet the proof is wanting. Among the most probable 

 instances, and those which should first be tested by chemical means, 

 are the Danaince feeding on the Asclepiads and the ''Pharmacophagus" 

 swallowtails feeding on Aristolochia and its allies. I may here 

 remark that Dr. Skinner is mistaken in supposing that Haase in his 

 hypothesis drew any distinction between the Danaince and the 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



section of the Papilios to which he gave the name Pharmacophagus. 

 He maintained that both of them, and the Ithomiince and Acrceince as 

 well, derived their distasteful qualities direct from the larval food- 

 plants. I refer to the following passage in which Dr. Skinner is 

 speaking of Danaida plexippus (33, p. 126) : 



"The protective idea in this case is the same as in the so-called 

 pharmacophagus butterfly, the imago of plexippus which is said to 

 be repugnant to birds but the repugance is not based on the idea of 

 the butterfly feeding on a poisonous plant (Asdepias) in the larval 

 stage." 



As regards the specially protected and much-mimicked group of 

 the Acrceince, the recent hitherto unpublished researches of my 

 friend Mr. W. A. Lamborn upon their larvae in the Lagos district 

 strongly suggest that the butterflies do not derive the nauseous 

 qualities, which they undoubtedly possess, in the manner assumed by 

 Haase; for the food-plants belong to varied groups. In a letter 

 written July 16, 1913, and received as I am preparing this paper, 

 Mr. Lamborn states: "By far the most common Acr(Ea here [the 

 neighborhood of Ibadan, S. Nigeria, W. Africa] is terpsichore. Its 

 larvse abound, and seem, like so many other distasteful caterpillars, 

 to have a wide range of food-plants." 



The facts brought forward by Dr. Skinner do not appear to me to 

 affect the probability of Haase's hypothesis. It is well known that 

 insects feeding on a great variety of plants commonly include among 

 these species with poisonous quahties. Haase's hypothesis only 

 refers to certain insects confined to poisonous or acrid food-plants. 

 I say "certain" insects, for the power of utilizing the poisonous 

 quality, if it exist at all, is undoubtedly a special adaptation by no 

 means necessarily present in any larva which feeds on the plant 

 possessing the quality. The other fact alluded to by the author, 

 that the acrid principle may be present in very small quantity, is, 

 I think, equally devoid of bearing on the hypothesis. If the adapta- 

 tion exist at all, we should expect small quantities to be stored up and 

 concentrated. The percentage of lime in a leaf is very small, yet the 

 larva of Clisiocampa neustria reserves enough to render its cocoon 

 opaque with minute crystals of the carbonate in the form of aragonite 

 (5) and Eriogaster lanestris enough to make its eggshell-like cocoon 

 out of the oxalate (8). 



Haase's hypothesis cannot be proved or disproved by discussion. 

 It is the work of the chemist that is needed. The most appropriate 

 field in the world for this work is North America with its hundreds 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



of skilled chemists and its well-equipped laboratories, and with two 

 abundant species — Danaida {Anosia) plexippus feeding on Asclepiads 

 and Pharmacophagus (Papilio) philenor feeding on Aristolochias — 

 by which to test the validity of Haase's hypothesis. 



3. Indirect Evidence that Pharmacophagus philenor is a 

 Model possessing Distasteful Qualities. 



I have myself only seen this insect alive on one or two occasions, 

 and have certainly never had the opportunity of observing it in 

 relation to its natural enemies, nor do I know of any such observa- 

 tions. Scudder states (6, 1248-9) that the larvae are gregarious 

 when young and semigregarious in later life, that the perfect insect 

 is very tenacious of life, and he quotes Edwards for the observation 

 that it has a strong and disagreeable scent. These qualities, espe- 

 cially the two latter, are generallj^ characteristic of distasteful species; 

 but Skinner states (32, p. 124) that later specially directed observa- 

 tions have failed to confirm Edwards. Skinner also records (p. 125) 

 the fact that the larvae are attacked by parasites, but this is commonly 

 true of Danaince, Acrceince, and other distasteful much-mimicked 

 groups. Haase is, so far as I am aware, the only writer on the 

 subject who has supposed that the immunity of models is complete, 

 and probably in all cases protection from insectivorous vertebrates 

 is to a large extent balanced by exceptional exposure to the attacks 

 of parasites and certain other insect enemies, such as Asilid flies and 

 Hemiptera (19). 



I quite agree with Skinner (p. 125) that the principal attacks are 

 made during the earlier stages of an insect's life — and think of the 

 elaborate protective adaptations which are common in these stages — 

 yet I do not doubt that the imago is subject to severe persecution 

 from enemies of many kinds. Furthermore, it must be remembered 

 that each imago, the heir of all the other stages, and especially each 

 female, is of far greater value to the species than a single pupa or 

 larva and often hundreds of times as valuable as an ovum. 



Although I must admit that there is no direct evidence to prove 

 that P. philenor is nauseous- to birds (p. 123), I believe that much 

 might be learned if American naturalists would offer large numbers 

 of this swallo^vtail to many species of insectivorous birds in confine- 

 ment, offering at the same time other butterflies with a procryptic 

 under-surface, such as Vanessa milberti or species of Grapta (Eugonia). 

 The North American Danaine models might be tested at the same 

 time. Although the records of field observations are greatly to be 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



preferred to this method of experiment, yet in the absence of such 

 observation much may be learned by comparing the behavior of the 

 same individual bird with different species of insects. 



The indirect evidence that Ph. philenor acts as a model and pos- 

 sesses the qualities of a model seems to me extremely strong. On 

 this hjT)othesis many facts receive their interpretation; without it 

 they are unexplained and meaningless. Philenor is one of the 

 " Aristolochia swallowtails," a section which is abundantly repre- 

 sented in tropical America and in the Orientaf Region, but, with the 

 exception of Ph. anterior in Madagascar, absent from the Ethiopian 

 Region. The mimicry we observe in North America is not only 

 repeated in both Regions where these swallowtails are abundant, 

 but repeated in a more convincing manner, because the patterns 

 are often far more elaborate, and because an " Aristolochia swallow- 

 tail" may break up into numerous geographical races with distinctly 

 difterent patterns which are mimicked in each locality by correspond- 

 ing races of the " Fluted swallo^vtails " and, in the Neotropical Region, 

 of the "Kite swallowtails." A good example is the Oriental Ph. 

 aristolochice with its subspecies mimicked by the females of Pap. 

 poJytes. Furthermore, there is in this case experimental evidence 

 that aristolochice is distasteful, and its slower, more flaunting flight 

 has often been remarked upon. In the Oriental Region species of 

 Pharmacophagus are also sometimes mimicked by day-flying moths, 

 and, in the Neotropical Region, not only by these, but by "Kite 

 swallowtails" (Cosmodesmus) and Pierines. Throughout the whole 

 range, as in North America, the mimicking "Fluted swallowtails" 

 are as a rule females, while on the other hand the "Kite swallowtails " 

 are mimetic in both sexes (33) . Just as the other much-mimicked 

 groups — the Danaince, Ithomiince, Heliconince, and Acrceince — are 

 themselves specially subject to mimicry — the genera or sections of 

 the same subfamily superficially resembling each other and also 

 resembling those of the other subfamilies — so is it in both respects 

 with the South American " Aristolochia swall(n\i;ails. " In every 

 way these butterflies behave like the great distasteful groups supply- 

 ing the best known models for mimicry. If we had no experimental 

 or other evidence that the Danaince are unpalatable, the indirect 

 evidence is strong enough to warrant at any rate a provisional accept- 

 ance of the hypothesis that they possess some peculiar means of 

 defence which renders them specially advantageous as models. For 

 wherever they are indigenous in the Old World they are mimicked 

 by butterflies of other groups, and even in North America, where 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



there are only three forms, each one of them is mimicked. It is not 

 as if the models for mimicry were distributed indiscriminately 

 . among the butterflies. They are furnished by a few genera here and 

 there among the NymyhalincB, Pierince, etc., but the vast majority 

 of them are concentrated in the four subfamilies mentioned above 

 and in the "Aristolochia swallo\\i:ails. " Until these remarkable 

 and very numerous facts are explained by some other hypothesis 

 or until something stronger than negative evidence is forthcoming, 

 we are justified in accepting the hypothesis of advantageous resem- 

 ])lance to a specially defended model. I should be the last to rest 

 content with indirect evidence, however strong, and for many years 

 I have urged naturalists, and especially those in the tropics, to make 

 observations and to undertake experiments. As a result of much 

 work, a considerable body of direct evidence, which cannot be ignored 

 by any fair-minded opponent, has been steadily accumulating, 

 especially from x\frica; but I freely admit that more is greatly needed, 

 and I shall continue to urge my friends to seek for it. 



4. The Attempt to explain Mimetic Resemblance as due to 

 Affinity between Model and Mimic. 



Dr. Skinner appears to adopt the above interpretation of the 

 likeness between the Papilios and Pharmaco'phagus when he says 

 "The three species, glaucus, asterius, and troilus, do bear a resemblance 

 to 'philenor but this happens in any aggregation of species in a genus. " 

 (33, p. 125.) This interpretation does not bear inspection. In the 

 first place, the butterflies do not in any real sense belong to the same 

 genus, and it is for this very reason that I have provisionally adopted 

 Haase's Pharmacophagus for philenor. In the second place, the three 

 mimetic species are placed by Rothschild and Jordan in three different 

 groups of the section "Papilio" ("Fluted swallowtails"). In the 

 third place, it is clear that the true affinity is shown by the non- 

 mimetic patterns rather than by the mimetic ones — by the upper 

 surface of the male asterius and by the rtiales and glaucus females of 

 glaucus. 



Darwin suggested that mimicry began "long ago between forms 

 not widely dissimilar in color, " and Scudder adoptg the same hypothe- 

 sis in the following passage : 



"The process has been a long one, so that . . . . , we may readily 

 presume far less difference between mocker and mocked when the 

 mimicr}^ between them first began, than now exists between the 

 mocked and the normal relatives of the mocker. " (6, p. 715). It is 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



obvious that this interpretation of the resemblances borne by other 

 insects to the stinging Hymenoptera cannot be thus explained, 

 and, within the Lepidoptera themselves, the study of detail has 

 often furnished a refutation. Thus Prof. Gowland Hopkins (13, 

 p. 68i)) writes: "The mimicking Pierid retains the characteristic 

 pigments of its group, while those of the mimicked Heliconid are 

 quite distinct. This would seem wholly to refute the argument 

 that in such cases the likeness may spring from a real affinity between 

 the two insects." (See p. 176.) 



5. Sexual Dimorphism (Antigeny of Scudder) and Mimicry. 



The mimetic butterflies of North America, as in other parts of the 

 world, are in large part mimetic in the female sex only, forming a 

 special subsection of the far wider group of sexually dimorphic or 

 antigenetic species. Dr. Skinner seeks to explain the special sub- 

 section and the inclusive group by an appeal to the same general 

 law. Thus, speaking of the mimetic females of North American 

 Papilios, he says on p. 125: "These differences [between the sexes] 

 occur in numerous species and it seems logical to consider that they 

 are governed by a general law rather than that a few of them are 

 caused by protective resemblance." He uses the same argument 

 concerning the female Argynnis diana, which Scudder maintains in 

 the most positive terms to be a mimic of Limenitis (B) astyanax. 

 (6, 1, pp. 266, 287, 718; III, p. 1802). Comparing this Argynnid with 

 five other sexually dimorphic species of the genus in North America, 

 Skinner says on p. 126: " It does not seem consistent to pick out one 

 species (diana) and say that its antigeny is due to tertiary mimicry. 

 How can the dimorphism of the other species be explained?" But 

 the female diana is, according to two eminent North American 

 entomologists, Scudder and Edwards, picked out by nature and 

 distinguished among the other antigenetic females by the fact that 

 it resembles a species of a very different Nymphaline genus. I agree 

 with them — although my opinion is worth very little as compared 

 with theirs, for I have never seen the species alive — and I was seeking 

 to place a resemblance which puzzled Scudder, in its true position 

 among the mimetic butterflies of the Region. The far wider ques- 

 tion of sexual dimorphism in general did not fall within the scope of 

 my paper. Again, referring to the mimetic female Papilio, I do not 

 know why it is specially logical to seek to explain by the same general 

 law two very different categories, viz., the sexually dimorphic 

 females that closely resemble other species and those that bear no 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G9- 



such resemblance. I doubt whether Dr. Skinner would venture to- 

 apply the same argument to the polymorphic mimetic females of 

 the Ethiopian Papilio dardanus or to many other examples that 

 could be cited. The North American females are not nearly so 

 striking as these, but their patterns are explained by the theories of 

 mimicr,y and by no other theories as yet suggested. 



There are doubtless certain general principles which underlie the 

 whole phenomenon of sexual dimorphism. One of these is obvious — 

 the linking of color, pattern and structure (as we see in the shape 

 of the wings or in the forefeet of so many butterflies) with sex — • 

 a linking which is so apt to occur in insects as well as in several other 

 groups, and is so specially conspicuous in the Lepidoptera Rhopalo- 

 cera. To this principle I think another may be added, at any rate 

 so far as the butterflies are concerned — the greater variabilit}' of 

 sex-limited patterns in the female (33) . But these general principles 

 do not explain the different categories of antigenetic females, although 

 they may, and I think do, explain the fact that there is material out 

 of which these categories have been built by selection. They would 

 also, of course, account for any antigenetic characters, if such there 

 be, that have not been subject to selection. They are the nearest 

 approach to a general law governing antigeny as a whole that can be 

 offered in the present state of our knowledge. 



Beyond these principles we have, I submit, to look for special 

 explanations rather than for general laws. 



(1) The mimetic females are probably to be explained, as Wallace 

 suggested (2, p. 22), by the special needs and special habits of the 

 sex, but also by the fact that the difference in pattern variability 

 may be such that the evolution of mimicry is initiated in one sex 

 and prevented in the other (33, p. 132). 



(2) A second class of female patterns is procryptic, meeting the 

 special needs of the sex by promoting concealment. 



(3) In a third class the whole or a certain proportion of the females 

 of a species retains ancestral patterns (or structures like the fore 

 feet mentioned above) which have been lost or become more degener- 

 ate in the males. 



(4) Finally the fact that males ai*e so often distinguished from their 

 females by brilliantTtints which are pigmentary in some species and 

 structural in others and by scent-producing organs of many kinds 

 strongly suggests an important fourth class due to the operation of 

 sexual selection. 



The summary briefly set forth in the last paragraphs will, I think,. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



show the hopelessness of any attempt to bring all the examples of 

 sexual dimorphism under any single law except one which expresses 

 the two principles explained on p. 169. The complexity of the 

 subject is still further increased by the fact that different elements 

 in the pattern of a species will often fall into more than one class. 

 Thus Dixey has maintained that the female of Argynnis diana 

 Ijelongs to the third of the above classes except as regards "the 

 large expanse of blue ground colour," which is mimetic and belongs 

 to the first class (7, p. 106, footnote). 



In his later paper (34) Dr. Skinner has still further developed 

 his objections to any special interpretation of the various classes 

 of sexual dimorphism in butterflies. He speaks of velvety patches 

 <on the fore wings of male Satyrince and brands on the wings of male 

 Hesperidce. The researches of Fritz Miiller (39) show that these 

 structures are scent-producing organs, and there is no doubt that 

 they are of use in courtship, or epigamic. The law that would be so 

 <3omprehensive as to explain at once an epigamic scent-patch, the 

 more rudimentary anterior foot of a male Nymphalid and the mimetic 

 pattern of its female, would be so very general that it would not 

 -carry us any distance in the attempt to understand each of these 

 different facts. 



Concerning Papilio glauciis glaucus and its dark turnus female 

 (I adopt Rothschild and Jordan's synonymy, 30, p. 582), which some 

 naturalists at least regard as mimetic of Ph. philenor, Skinner says 

 (34, p. 25) in criticism of Edwards: "There is also an assumption 

 to which I take exception. Does anyone know which one [the dark 

 or the male-like female] appeared first and why?" With regard 

 to the last word "why," Edwards had expressly disclaimed know- 

 ledge, for he speaks of "some unknown influence" causing the appear- 

 ance of the black female, and we can say no more than this to-day. 

 With regard to the other part of the question, I think it may be 

 shown that Edwards took the reasonable view in supposing that the 

 dark female appeared later than the male-like one. The male 

 pattern is shown to be ancestral, because it l^-^ars an intimate relation- 

 ship to the pattern of other aUied Papilios. 



This is the ai'gument used by Scudder (6, p. 534) in the following 

 joassage: "In Jasoniades glaucus, where we sometimes have a 

 black female, it is more difficult to decide what should be considered 

 the normal color, owing to diversity of view upon the relationship 

 of many of the swallowtails; but, to judge only from those agreed 

 hy all to be most nearly allied to it, there can be no question whatever 

 that the striped character prevails." 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



The turnus female is a partially melanic variety, hut the lines of 

 the male pattern can be detected beneath the overspreading pigment. " 

 It also exhibits many features in its pattern which have received no 

 interpretation except that they are mimetic of philenor or secondarily 

 mimetic of the other Papilionine mimics of philenor (31, 467-471). 

 No doubt there are examples in which it is probable that melanic 

 females preserve something of an ancestral pattern, as in Argijnnis 

 (liana or the valesina form of our British ^. paphia (7, 103-5, 119-21), 

 but I "do not think that anyone has maintained that this is true of 

 the melanic females of Papilios. It is, I submit, unreasonable to 

 suppose that the male-like pattern first appeared almost hidden 

 under the melanism of the turnus female, and that the full pattern 

 became evident by the clearing up of the dark pigment; whereas 

 the opposite view, that the partial melanism appeared later, obscuring 

 but not completely hiding a pre-existing male-like pattern, seems to 

 me entirely probable. Such partial melanism, in my opinion, 

 provided the foundation on which the details of the mimetic resem- 

 blance were gradually built. 



As regard this same species, Dr. Skinner's final conclusions (34, 

 p. 26) are comprised in the following statement: ''The evidence in 

 favor of glaucus being brought about by mimicry is almost nil, while 

 the evidence against it is very considerable. The species swarms 

 in countless thousands in the north where glaucus does not exist." 

 When we add to these last words the fact that the model P. philenor 

 is also non-existent in the north. Dr. Skinner's argument seems to 

 support the view he is attacking. P. philenor only enters New 

 England and Southern Canada as a straggler and barely overlaps 

 the range of the northern subspecies of P. glaucus glaucus, which 

 Rothschild and Jordan distinguish under the name of P. glaucus 

 ■canadensis (20, p. 586). As regards the closely allied P. rutulus, the 

 ■same great authorities give reasons for considering it a distinct 

 species. The whole range of glaucus glaucus — Florida to New 

 England and westward to the Mississippi basin — lies within that 

 of P. philenor, and over this whole range the dark hmius female 

 occurs intermingled with male-like females — the latter preponderating 

 in the north, the former in the south. The evidence based on geo- 

 graphical distribution seems to me strongly to support Edwards' 

 conclusions. And we may add that there are, as I have already said, 

 details in the pattern of the dark females which are not explained 

 by any other hypothesis. Objections based on the great abundance 

 •of the non-mimetic ancestor are considered on pages 178, 179. 




172 progeedings of the academy of [jan_ 



6. The Female of Neophasia terlooti, another North American: 



Mimic of Danaida plexippus. 



Dr. Skinner remarks (34, p. 27): "What is the cause of the ex- 

 traordinary antigeny seen in Neophasia terlooti? The male in this 

 species is white and the female orange. The female of the species 

 was once sent to me as a ' little Danais' and it really looks like one.. 

 Here would be a good opportunity to build up a mimicry theory. " ^ 

 At the time when I read these words I had never seen the species, 

 but Dr. Skinner has now very kindly sent me a male and female 

 from Reef, Arizona (Nov. 2, 1903: Biederman). There can be no 

 doubt that the female is a mimic of D. plexippus. The comparison 

 between the yellow of the under surface exposed in the position of 

 rest and the orange of the upper surface, the blackening of the veins 

 on the upper surface of the hind wing and other details to be de- 

 scribed below are quite inexplicable on any other hypothesis. The 

 mimicry is rather rough and there is no approximation in the shape 

 of the wings. In both respects this female stands in about the same 

 position as the females of the Neotropical Perrhybris {"Mylothris'').. 

 I am greatly indebted to my friend for this opportunity of examining 

 and writing on what is to me an entirely new example of butterfly- 

 mimicry in North America — another result of its invasion by the 

 Old World genus Danaida. My friend Commander J. J. Walker, 

 who has had an intimate experience of the allied Neophasia menapia 

 in Vancouver Island, tells me that during flight the latter is one of the 

 feeblest of Pierines and that it suddenly appears upon the wing in 

 immense numbers. He has kindly permitted me to make use of the 

 following unpublished extracts from his journal, on H. M. S. "King- 

 fisher" at Esquimalt, Vancouver Island: 



1882, August 7: "Day still, hot, and cloudless. During the 

 forenoon I was agreeably surprised by the appearance of a good 

 number of specimens of a very pretty "White" butterfly. . . . 

 It seems to come very near to Leucophasia, by the elongate shape 

 and delicate texture of its wings, as well as by the rather short antennae 

 and hairy palpi. . . . They were flying sluggishly in the sunshine 

 over the water, and the signalman and I caught 15 on the poop in a 

 very short time [the ship being about 300 yards off shore]. . . . 

 Landed at 4 P. M.; the Leucophasia? was" still on the wing, and I 



•* 



iDr. F. A. Dixey remarked of N. terlooti in 1905 {Proceedings of the Entomo- 

 logical Society of London, p. xx) : "This latter butterfly is especially interesting, 

 as possessing a female which closely resembles some of the mimetic forms ot 

 Euterpe." 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



"caiight 15 or 16 (at flowers of Matricaria) , all in the most exquisite 

 condition, like those taken on board ship. They all appeared to 

 have emerged from the pupa on that day, as I had been on the 

 lookout for some days past, and certainly did not see one on the 

 wing yesterda3^" 



August 8: "Went on shore this forenoon at 11.30, to get a few 

 more of the Leucophasia [Neophasia] while it remained in good 



condition I had no difficulty in getting as many as I wanted 



.. . . . a day, however, had made a perceptible difference in its 

 condition, as a good many were getting somewhat worn and chipped. 

 They were very easy to catch, flitting from flower to flower in the 

 open places [among the pines] and of very weak and sluggish flight." 



August 14: The first 9 was taken on this date. ''I beat it out 

 of a fir-tree." 



The fact that the only Pierine mimic in the Nearctic Region 

 belongs to a genus with the characteristics described by J. J. Walker 

 suggests an interpretation on the lines of Fritz Miiller's hypothesis. 



I now propose to institute a detailed comparison between the 

 colored pigments of Neophasia menapia and terlooti. 



The Female of Neophasia menapia. — Under surface of hind 

 wing. — A colored spot, roughly triangular in shape, is found in the 

 black marginal band of areas 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. The sp^ts, as well as the 

 other markings described below, were orange in 4 females, orange-red 

 in 2, and a rather pale vermilion in one. The tint in some individuals 

 tends to deepen towards the base of the wing — especially along the 

 costa. Beyond vein 7, viz., in areas 7 and 8, the pigment is continued 

 at first as a narrow marginal line, which filling area 8 except at its 

 very base, broadens with it toward the base of the ^\^ng. In the 

 opposite direction, beyond vein 2, area Ic bears two spots, of which 

 the upper is sometimes roughly diamond-shaped. These spots 

 are placed one on each side of the dark line, representing a lost vein, 

 which divides the area longitudinally into two sections. Below 

 vein lb a narrow marginal orange line extends over about I of the 

 breadth of area lb. 



In addition to these marginal orange markings, there is also an 

 internervular development of the same pigment starting from the 

 base of the wing, especially distinct in the lower or inner marginal 

 section of area Ic, which in favorable examples is highly colored 

 over more than half its length starting from the base. In strongly 

 marked females a few scattered orange scales are also seen in area 7 

 and in the upper section of area Ic, and they could probably be found 

 ,in other areas of certain individuals. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.^ 



* 



Upper surface of hind wing. Most of the above-described mar- 

 ginal features appear, but far more faintly, on the upper surface. 

 The other orange marks are not represented on the upper surface of 

 those females that I have examined, nor did they appear anywhere 

 upon either surface of the fore wing. 



The Male of Neophasia menapia. — Under surface of hind wing. — 

 Sixteen examples were examined and of these about half had a 

 comparatively few dull orange or sometimes yellow scales in one or 

 more of areas 6, 7, and 8. When present they are precisely in the 

 position of the marginal markings of the female. 



Since writing the above I have had the opportunity of examining 

 6 beautiful specimens from Esquimalt, in Commander J. J. Walker's 

 collection. Well-developed marginal markings appeared on all 

 females: on (1) a beautiful cinnabar red; on (2) a pale cinnabar 

 red, a little deepened at the anal angle, apex, and costa; on (3) 

 orange, becoming orange-red in the same positions. Of the 3 males, 

 two possessed pale cinnabar scales at the apex and along the costa, 

 one of them bearing a few at the margin of the upper section of area 

 Ic and still fewer — only 2 or 3 scales — in the lower section. The 

 third male had pale yellow marginal scales at the apex and costa, 

 a few becoming faintly reddish, especially at the apex. 



Commander Walker tells me that these butterflies were all ''set" 

 immediately after capture, and that they have never been "relaxed" 

 and ''reset. " Inasmuch as Prof. Gowland Hopkins has shown (11, 13) 

 that the pigments of Pierince are soluble in water, it is probable that 

 Walker's specimens more truly represent the colors of the living 

 insect than do any of the others here described, for all of these have- 

 been "relaxed" at least once. 



The Male of Neophasia terlooti. — Under surface of hind wing. — 

 The marginal markings of the female menapia are represented on the- 

 male of terlooti, smaller indeed, but with a far richer color, being of a. 

 bright, rich vermilion tint. In the single specimen I have had the 

 opportunity of examining these markings are solely marginal. They 

 are wanting from area 4 and so slightly developed in all areas except 

 6, 7, and 8 (where they are purely linear and do not fill the last-named 

 area as in the 9 menapia) that it would be easy to count the con 

 stituent scales with a lens. In the specimen before me there are- 

 only 3 vermilion scales in area 5 on the left side and only 5 on the 

 right, but they are more numerous and usually far more numerous 

 in all the other markings. Although the dark pigment is com- 

 paratively weakly developed in the male, area Ic is divided ver^ 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



distinctly by a strongly marked lin(>ar streak, and the 2 orange spots 

 of the female menapia are represented by 2 marginal groups of 

 vermilion scales, one in each section of the area. Vermilion scales 

 occur nowhere else on the specimen, although those described above 

 can be distinctly seen through the translucent scales of the upper 

 surface. 



The Female of Neophasia terlooti. — Under surface of hind 

 wing. — The vermilion markings are developed almost precisely in 

 the positions of the orange markings of the female menapia — more 

 strongly at the margin and the extreme base of the wing, but much 

 less so elsewhere. The lower section of area Ic is, however, richly 

 marked with vermilion for \ of its length from the base. The rest 

 of the colored markings are light yellow of an ochreish tint, rather 

 distinctly different from that seen elsewhere on the wings. 



Under surface of fore wing. — The marginal markings and the 

 marginal part of the chief orange patch are also light yellow, but of a 

 lemon tinge. The orange of the chief marking and of scattered 

 scales forming a linear mark in the cell is very rich and deep in tint: 

 the mark in the cell is in fact better described as orange-red. The 

 two marks at the end of the cell, in areas 5 and 6, are transitional in 

 tint between the yellow marginal and the more central orange 

 markings, and there is transition to be observed between the yellow 

 margin in areas la and lb and the rest of the chief orange marking. 

 These changes in color are effected by a gradual increase in the 

 number of orange scales and not by any real transition between the 

 yellow and orange pigments, although if we study the wings as a 

 whole we find several tints of orange and yellow. 



Upper surface of hind wing. — The vermilion markings are repre- 

 sented by comparatively few scales. Within these markings the 

 submarginal spots and the ground-color of the rest of the wing are 

 deep orange, but of a duller tint than that of the fore wing. The 

 submarginal spots of the outer (hind) margin are slightly less deep 

 in tint, while along the costa, where the surface is concealed beneath 

 the fore wing, the orange scales are gradually replaced by yellow, and 

 again, at the extreme margin, by black, with perhaps u trace of the 

 vermilion which is so distinct on the opposite surface. The vermilion 

 scales could not be properly investigated because of the overlap of 

 the wings. 



Upper surface of the fore wing. — The colors are nearly as on the 

 under surface, but, except at the apex, the submarginal spots and 

 the margin of the principal marking are distinctly less pale and 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



therefore much nearer to the tint of the orange ground-color of the 

 rest of the wing. The transition here does not appear to be effected 

 by a gradually increasing number of deep orange scales, but by a 

 rgradual increase in the depth of the tint. The two marks at the 

 end of the cell are nearly as rich an orange as in the expanse be- 

 low t^ie cell, and the transition towards yellow is, on the upper 

 :surface as compared with the lower, shifted towards the costal 

 margin, occurring in the two spots of the same series placed above 

 the end of the cell in areas 10 and 11. The linear spot in area 11 is 

 yellow with thinly scattered orange scales, which are far more thickly 

 placed on the spot in area 10. 



7. The Colored Pigments of the Pierin^ as Illustrated by 



Neophasia. 



Professor F. Gowland Hopkins has shown (11, 13) that the white 

 pigment of Pierines is an impure uric acid, and that the yellow 

 •orange and probably the red pigments are a derivative of uric acid 

 which he calls "lepidotic acid. " No pigments of similar constitution 

 were found in any other butterflies. Therefore, when a Pierine 

 mimics an Ithomiinc or, as in N. terlooti, a Danaine, the resemblance 

 is effected by the production of an entirely different coloring matter. 

 •Gowland Hopkins believes that the yellow, orange, and red Pierine 

 pigments are chemically nearly allied and may pass one into the other 

 by slight changes perhaps in the degree of oxidation. He observed 

 that one tint was represented by another in corresponding markings 

 ■of opposite sexes or allied species. Thus he remarks (13, p. 678) : 



"It is interesting to note, by comparing various allied species of 

 Delias, that the red marginal spot may become more yellow, while 

 ihe yellow area usually found at the root of the wing may become 

 more red, till both may exhil^it a uniform orange colour, or the 

 ■change may go farther and red and yellow change places without 

 the general color-plan of the wing being altered." 



These conclusions are strongly supported by a careful study of 

 Neophasia, where it has been shown that in different individuals of 

 the same sex of menapia the same markings may be either orange, 

 orange-red, or pale vermilion, while in the opposite sex they may be 

 absent or feebly represented in dull orange or yellow. Again in the 

 allied terlooti the corresponding markings are a rich deep vermilion 

 in both sexes. We are led to realize that it is very easy for Neophasia 

 to produce any shade between a pale lemon-yellow and a rich ver- 

 milion. The colored markings of menapia cannot be regarded as 




1914.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



mimetic, and, if Danaida plexippus had never entered America, it is 

 highly improbable that anything more than the corresponding 

 colored markings would have been evolved on the wings of the female 

 terlooti. The range of tints in the markings common to menapia and 

 terlooti gives an indication of the variational material out of which 

 selection built up the mimetic pattern. The peculiar shade of 

 yellow of the under surface of the hind wing, the rich orange of the 

 central parts of the upper surface, the paler tints of the marginal 

 markings, especially at the apex of the fore wing, the emphasis by 

 black pigment of the veins of the hind wing upper surface, are all 

 elements in producing the result — a somewhat rough but at a distance 

 almost certainly a deceptive mimetic likeness to D. plexippus. 



The same considerations help us to understand the prevalence of 

 Pierine mimicry in tropical America as compared with other parts- 

 of the world — because of the predominant Ithomiince and Danainoe 

 with warning patterns made up of reds, yellows, whites, and blacks. 

 Such patterns are mimicked by the Pierine genera Dismorphia 

 (in the broad sense), Perrhyhris {'' Mylothi'is^'), Archonias, Hes- 

 perocharis, and we can now add the, North American Neophasia. 



8. The Restriction of Sex-limited Inheritance to the Mimetic 

 Pattern of Neophasia terlooti. 



The older colored markings common to the females of menapia 

 and terlooti are only partially sex-limited, being inherited in a very 

 reduced form by some of the males of the former species and probably 

 by all of the latter. The more modern mimetic pattern of the 

 female terlooti is strictly sex-limited. The facts harmonize Avith the 

 hypothesis that female mimicry is largely due to the great variability 

 of this sex in Lepidoptera ^nd the freedom with which it offers to 

 selection a wide range of sex-limited colors and markings, but that 

 when a pattern has been long established it tends to be transferred 

 to the opposite sex. 



The older non-mimetic marginal markings suggest that the trans- 

 formation of uric into lepidotic acid is especially easy in this part 

 of the hind Aving and invite comparison with the number of mimetic 

 Neotropical Pierines in which marginal or submarginal reds have 

 been developed in the same position, viz., on the under surface of 

 the hind wing — a study that would carry me too far from the subject 

 of the present paper. 



12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



9. The Evolution of Limenitis (Basilarchia) archippus from 

 AN Ancestor with a Pattern like that of 



L. (B.) ARTHEMIS. 



The origin of archippus, suggested in the title of this section, is 

 due to Scudder (6, 277-8, 714). All I have done is to support the 

 published views of this distinguished naturalist by making a careful 

 analysis of the markings of archippus and arthemis, by this means 

 demonstrating that the details of the mimetic pattern are accounted 

 for on his hypothesis! I am sorry to find that neither Scudder's 

 hypothesis nor the results of my analysis carry any conviction to 

 Dr. Skinner, who uses the following words: ^'Arthemis and weide- 

 meyeri [with a very similar pattern] have flourished prosperously in 

 the .struggle for existence, and it is difficult to understand why 

 archippus should be so specially favored. The statements attempt- 

 ing to prove the evolution of archippus from an ancestral form 

 (arthemis) seem to me very inconclusive" (33, p. 127). Dr. Skinner 

 makes no alternative suggestion as to the origin of the mimetic species. 

 The doctrine of evolution — for it is hardly necessary to discuss the 

 ancient belief which would assume that archippus was originally 

 created in its present form — leaves us only two hypotheses. Either 

 archippus was evolved from some form of Limenitis which has 

 entirely disappeared or from one which is more or less closely repre- 

 sented by a species still in existence. The former alternative aban- 

 dons the problem as insoluble, and abandoned it must be if there is 

 no sufficient evidence that the ancestor can be reconstructed from any 

 existing form. I agree with Scudder in preferring the counsel of 

 hope to the counsel of despair. L. (B.) arthemis and weidemeyeri 

 present us with an ancestral pattern wide-spread in the genus and 

 found not only in North America, but also with little change in the 

 Old World section of the temperate circumpolar zone. Archippus 

 is so closely related to arthemis that the larval and pupal stages are 

 almost identical, and although the imaginal patterns are so different, 

 Scudder indicated, and I have attempted to trace in detail, the 

 manner in which one pattern may be derived from the other. I 

 really think that if Dr. •Skinner, with specimens of archippus and 

 arthemis before him, will verify the details of the account in my 

 earlier paper (31, pp. 456-459), he will find that many minute 

 features on the wings of the mimetic species are interpreted and 

 correlated in a satisfactory manner. And a hypothesis that interprets 

 stands, until replaced by another that interprets better. 



With regard to Skinner's inference that inasmuch as arthemis 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



flourishes prosperously, it is unlikely that a mimetic form would arise 

 from it, this is an objection which at once arises wh(>n mimicry is 

 studied in the original monograph of its founder, published long 

 before Fritz Miiller had thought of his hypothesis. According to 

 Bates, mimicry was a refuge for the destitute, a last means of escape 

 for a hard-pressed and dying species. It was this very conclusion 

 which was Miiller's stumbling-block; for the majority of the mimics 

 in southeast Brazil where he lived were clearly successful and 

 abundant species, and the same is true of the majority of mimicking 

 species wherever they are thoroughly known. Nor is there any reason 

 to suppose that these successful forms originally arose from rare and 

 hard-pressed non-mimetic ancestors. Want of space prevents the dis- 

 cussion of more than a single example. I refer to Tirumala (Melinda) 

 formosa, an Oriental invader into the Ethiopian Region (18, 31). 

 This species, abundant east of the Victoria Nyanza, near Nairol)i, 

 is there beautifully mimicked by the Ethiopian Papilio rex. The 

 invading Danaine has transformed an indigenous species just as in 

 North America. West of the great lake T. formosa is represented by 

 an equally flourishing daughter species, T. mercedonia, with a pattern 

 darker than its parent and one much further removed from the allied 

 Oriental Danaince. Papilio rex west of the lake becomes P. mimeticus, 

 as beautiful a mimic of T. mercedonia as rex is of formosa. The two 

 Danaine models are now distinct species, but their Papilionine 

 mimics, connected by intermediates (P. commixtus) in the interme- 

 diate geographical area northeast of the Victoria Nyanza, are 

 certainly a single interbreeding community. Similarly, in North 

 America Danaida plexippus is a very distinct species from D. berenice 

 and D. strigosa, although these latter may be geographical races of 

 one species. The three forms of Limenitis are, on the other hand, 

 all probably mimetic modifications of a single species, although 

 L. obsoleta is probably distinct from archippus and floridensis. To con- 

 tinue the history of the African invading Danaines: Further 

 westward the flourishing and prosperous T. mercedonia has given rise 

 to a still darker species, T. morgeni, which has altogether lost the 

 appearance of an Oriental Tirumala and has become the most 

 perfect mimic of the African Danaine genus Amauris. 



Here, then, we have a species so dominant that it is mimicked by a 

 butterfly of a different family. It gives rise to another species and 

 the mimic undergoes corresponding changes. Finally, in spite of 

 these evidences of prosperity, it becomes itself a singularly perfect 

 mimic. All these changes are far less abrupt than that from arthemis 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



to archippus, and I do not think that any naturalist who recognized 

 the traces of the pattern of mercedonia still lingering almost invisible 

 on the surface of niorgeni or concealed by the overlap of the wings 

 would doubt that the former is the ancestor of the latter and that the 

 model has become itself a mimic. 



Finalh', it must be remembered that L. archippus has a far wider 

 range than arthemis, and it is reasonable to suppose that this advan- 

 tage has been conferred by its mimetic pattern. Arthemis is confined 

 to Canada east of the Rockies and to the northeastern States, while 

 archippus is "found over very nearly the same area as Anosia plex- 

 ippus" (6, 278). 



10. The Relation of the Pattern of Limenitis obsoleta (hulsti) 

 to that of archippus, arthemis and weidemeyeri, 



When I wrote the paper criticised by Dr. Skinner (32), as well as 

 an earlier paper, in some respects more detailed (31), I had never 

 been given the opportunity of examining a series of the Arizona 

 and Utah mimic, Limenitis obsoleta {hulsti), and my brief account was 

 founded on the excellent fig. 5 on plate VII of Dr. W. J. Holland's 

 work (17.) In January, 1909, when I had the honor of repre- 

 senting my country at the Darwin centenary in America, mj^ friend 

 Dr. F. A. Lucas, Director of the American Museum, Central Park, 

 New York, showed me a series of obsoleta together with its model, 

 Danaida strigosa. The specimens were in the Brooklyn Museum, 

 of which Dr. Lucas was then Curator. I saw at once that the form 

 was very variable and that my work required the study and com- 

 parison of a long series of individuals. Dr. Lucas very kindly 

 obtained a few specimens of the model and mimic for me and put 

 me in communication with Dr. R. E. Kunze, of Phoenix, Arizona, 

 who has generously provided me with a fine mass of material. The 

 following account has been drawn up from the study of 24 males and 

 9 females from Phoenix and 2 males and 1 female from Tucson. 

 Thirty-three specimens bear the precise date of capture, one the 

 month and year, one a month of which the interpretation is uncertain, 

 and one for which the month is not recorded. Omitting these last 

 •two, the dates of capture are given in the following table. The three 

 1896 specimens were captured at Tucson (2,400 feet) in southern 

 Arizona, the remaining 31 at Phoenix (1,100 feet) in the valley of the 

 Salt River, southern Arizona. 



Apr. 0, 1896 1 9 June 6, 1896 1 c^ 



Apr. 10, 1896 1 cf Apr. 22, 1897 1 cT 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Apr. 17, 1909 1 9 July 30, 1910 . 1 d" 



Sept. 21, 1909 Id" Oct. 5,1910 4 d^* 



Sept. 30, 1909 1 9 Oct. 7, 1910 3 d^ 1 9 



Oct. 27, 1909 1 cf Apr. 11, 1911 1 9 



1 d Apr. 15, 1911 1 d 



1 d 1 9 Apr. 22, 1911 2d 



1 d Sept. 5, 1911 1 9 



1 9 Sept. 11, 1911 1 9 



1 d Sept. 21, 1911 1 d 



1 d Sept. 24, 1911 • 1 d 



1 d Oct. 4, 1911 1 d 



The existence of two broods, one emerging l>etween the end of 

 March and the end of April, the other in September and October, 

 are clearly shown. The two specimens in June and July, respectively, 

 were probably representatives of a third brood. 



The model, Danaida strigosa, appears to be much rarer than its 

 mimic at Phoenix — at any rate, in the localities where Dr. Kunze 

 collected. From this place I have only received 2 males, captured 

 July 2 and 6, 1912; from Tucson — 1 female May 26, 1 male June 7, 

 1 female June 9, 1 male August 19, all in 1896; from Prescott (5,400 

 feet), in western Arizona — 2 males and 1 female July 15, 1912. 



Dr. R. E. Kunze, of Phoenix, Arizona, who has hftd a long and 

 intimate experience of the butterfly fauna of the State, kindly informs 

 me that, in the Phoenix (1,100 feet) and Tucson (2,400 feet) districts 

 and between them, L. obsoleta is almost exclusively found in the 

 valleys, along the river-bottoms, and by the canals, where its larval 

 food-plant, a willow, grows.^ It is commoner in the river-bottoms, 

 especially near the streams, than by the canals. Danaida strigosa 

 flies with it in these situations and is indeed commoner there than 

 elsewhere, but, unlike the mimic, it is also found in other places. 

 It is impossible to state the relative proportions of Danaine and 

 Limenitis, but by the rivers and canals the mimic is the commoner 

 in the ratio of about twelve or fifteen to one. The proportion^ at 

 Tucson and Phoenix seem to be the same. 



Danaida plexippus occurs, but is scarce in the Salt River valley at 

 Phoenix. Dr. Kunze estimates that it may exist in the ratio of one 

 to fifteen of D. strigosa, but in some seasons he does not meet with 



2 The armatures of two of these males were studied by Dr. Eltringham (p. 190) 

 ' Dr. Kunze adds in his letter of August 5, 1913: "I should say that obsoleta 

 has here [Phoenix] from 3-i broods in a season, from April 1st up to November 

 1st, in a mild autumn, of course. I think the last brood oviposits on cotton- 

 wood, our Populua fremonti and other species, because its leaves keep green till 

 latter part of December, whereas willow drops leaves earlier." 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



it at all. At Prescott, Arizona (5,350 feet), 135 miles north of 

 Phoenix, strigosa flies in the company of plexippus from July to 

 September, the latter being the commoner of the two. D. strigosa 

 extends as far south as Galveston, Texas, and may also occur in some 

 parts of Mexico, near the northern boundary. Limenitis ohsoleta 

 does not occur at Prescott. 



The fine series of L. ohsoleta (hulsti) tabulated on p. 180 at once 

 made clear to me that the Arizona form is not, like fioridensis (eros) 

 in Florida, a local race of L. archippus transformed by mimicry of 

 the dominant local Danaine, but the bearer of an ancestral pattern 

 which preserves features lost by the two other mimetic races. I 

 therefore desire to correct my former conclusion, founded on the 

 figure of a single specimen, that ohsoleta is a modified form of archippus 

 (21, p. 460, 33, pp. 171-2). At the same time I remarked in the 

 latter paper (p. 172): "I have not yet had the opportunity of ascer- 

 taining whether this hypothesis is supported by evidence derived 

 from a careful study of the pattern." 



The hind wing. — The most prominent ancestral features of ohsoleta 

 are the traces of the white discal band derived from an ancestor with 

 a pattern like that of artheynis or weidemeyeri. In archippus and 

 fioridensis a trace of the white band is found on the under side of the 

 hind wing in some specimens, but so far as my experience goes never 

 on the upper surface. In ohsoleta some trace of it is always present 

 on both surfaces, but when, as in the majority of specimens, there 

 is a difference in the degree of development, it is stronger upon the 

 under side. It is more strongly developed in the females than the 

 males, and this is the general rule with the ancestral features of the 

 species, as it appears to be in archippus, of which a certain proportion 

 of the males in the Albany district, but no females, have entirely 

 lost the black discal stripe from the upper surface of the hind wing 

 (recorded by Mr. John H. Cook, 33, pp. 211-212). Thus the white 

 stripe, together with its black outer border, is evanescent on the upper 

 surface of the hind wing of 2 female ohsoleta from Phoenix and small 

 in the female from Tucson, whereas the same feature is evanescent 

 in half the males from Phoenix and but slightly developed in others. 

 The evanescent feature in both males and females is more strongly 

 represented, generally far more strongly, on the under surface. The 

 degree of development of the black band is generally related to that 

 of the white, the two being usually evanescent together or well 

 developed together, but the range of variation is much greater in the 

 white than in the black, corresponding with the entire disappearance 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



« 



of the former but not of the latter from the upper surface of the 

 aUied archippus. On the other hand, the development on the under 

 as compared with the upper surface is greater in the black than the 

 white. In both sexes there is a tendency, as in archippus, to throw 

 the white spots on the under surface of the hind wing into relief by 

 an inner edging — a darkened shade of the ground-color in areas 

 2, 3, 4, and 5, still darker and often black in areas 6 and 7. This 

 feature probably represents the black inner border of the white 

 discal band in the non-mimetic ancestor. 



When the 32 specimens, omitting the 2 taken in June and July, 

 recorded in the table on p. 180, are arranged according to their two 

 broods — the 15 March and April specimens together and the 17 

 September and October together — it is seen that there is a small but 

 distinct seasonal difference in the development of the trace of the 

 white discal band of the hind wing and its black outer border. The 

 spring brood is in this respect distinctly the more ancestral, bearing 

 on the average stronger traces of the pattern of weidemeyeri and 

 arthemis. This is true of the females as well as the males, as may be 

 inferred from the foUownng statement: 



Females (spring brood = 4, autumn brood = 5). — The only 2 

 specimens with evanescent band and border bear the dates Sept. 11, 

 1911, and Oct. 10, 1910. The most reduced band of the spring brood 

 is seen in the Tucson specimen, April 9, 1896. In all the remaining 

 4 spring females, the band and, in all but one, the border is distinctly 

 stronger than in either of the 2 remaining autumn females. 



Males (spring brood = 10, autumn brood = 13). — It is extremely 

 difficult to classify the degree of development of the band and border 

 ■ — there is a complete and gradual transition. There is, however, a 

 marked difference at both ends of the scale between the two broods. 

 The most evanescent white bands are seen in 6 autumn males. In 

 all these the feature is more reduced than in any spring male. Very 

 small and reduced bands are found in 3 males of each brood. Beyond 

 these there is the most gradual transition to the highest degree of 

 development found in the sex, and among these we find by far the 

 highest in a specimen captured April 22, 1911, while 2 other spring 

 males are rather beyond any of the autumn brood. Considering 

 the black border separately, the difference is even more marked, for 

 this feature is evanescent in 4 of the autumn brood and none of the 

 spring, while the next 4 are equalled and on the whole slightly 

 exceeded by the 4 spring specimens in which the feature is least de- 

 veloped. The black border is more highly developed in 4 of the spring 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



brood than in any of the autumn. This detailed comparison has 

 been extraordinarily difficult to make, because of the perfect transi- 

 tion and the minute shades of difference. When the attempt was 

 made to express the difference, the specimens grouped themselves 

 into fours in an irritating and unnatural manner. It might perhaps 

 have been wiser to attempt no analysis of so transitional a feature, 

 but to be contented with the statement that a distinct difference 

 exists at both ends of the scale, the band and border of the most 

 strongly marked specimens being decidedly more developed in 'the 

 spring brood, while the reduction of these features in the least strongly 

 marked specimens was carried distinctly further in the autumn 

 brood. I cannot but think, however, that my attempts at an 

 analytical comparison, whatever faults there may be in the details, 

 are a truer expression of the facts. 



An interesting difference between the. upper surface of ohsoleta 

 and that of archippus is common to both fore and hind wings, viz., 

 the far more heavily blackened veins gained by the latter in mimicry 

 of D. plexippus. Floridensis here shows its origin from archippus, 

 for it retains the darkening along the veins, although out of place in a 

 mimic of D. berenice. No such evidence of having passed through an 

 archippus stage is to be seen on the upper surface of ohsoleta. The 

 veins are heavily blackened on the under surface of the hind wing 

 in all three mimics, in evident likeness to their respective models, 

 although ohsoleta in this respect is less darkened and a less perfect 

 mimic than the other two. 



In certain specimens of ohsoleta there is to be seen on the hind wing 

 under surface two largish rich brown sharply outlined patches, one in 

 the cell and one near the base of area 7. On the basal side of each 

 patch is a white spot and a white suffusion commonly surrounds the 

 projection of the precostal into area 8. These elements tend to 

 become evanescent together and distinct together, acting like a single 

 feature. Slight traces of these markings can probably be found on 

 every fresh specimen. They were remarkably pronounced in the 

 female taken Sept. 5, 1911 (p. 181). These vestiges, except in one 

 respect, resemble the well-known basal pattern of orthemis far more 

 closely than that of weidemeyeri. The pale elements are, however, 

 for the most part blue in arthemis, but nearly white in loeidemeyeri, 

 and therefore in this respect nearer to ohsoleta. Archippus has 

 advanced further from the ancestral forms than ohsoleta, for "the 

 basal red patches have vanished, but the pale blue marks in and on 

 the costal side [area 7] of the base of the cell are retained, and, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18o> 



lightened in tint, represent the two more conspicuous white spots 

 occupying nearly the same position in Anosin [Danaida]" (31, 456-7). 

 Now that I have had the advantage of studying obsoleta, and have 

 re-examined archippus in the light of the new experience, I find that 

 a few examples do possess a very faint trace of the reddish patches of 

 arthemis. In these vestiges as in so many other features in the pattern 

 we are led to conclude that obsoleta represents an older stage in the 

 evolution of archippus. 



The fore wing. — The inner edge of the angulated black outer 

 border of the white band of arlhemis and weidemeyeri runs from the 

 costa to the inner margin of the wing, near but well within the pos- 

 terior angle, although it is broadened so far that its outer edge enters 

 this angle; in most specimens of archippus it runs to the junction of 

 the middle and posterior third of the outer (hind) margin (31, 

 p. 457). Some females, however, approach the condition of obsoleta, 

 which is generally far nearer in this respect to the pattern of arthemis 

 and weidemeyeri. In obsoleta the direction of the vestigial black 

 outer border, which, except near the costa, is evanescent on the 

 upper surface, can be easily traced by fixing the attention on the 

 outer ends of the four prominent white spots in areas 3, 4, 5, and 6. 

 With this as guide, the eye is led on to an evanescent white spot nearly 

 always present in area 2, and in certain individuals to the faint 

 continuation of the black line towards the posterior angle. The 

 angle made with the costa is very different from that of archippus. 

 The black line is usually far more distinct on the under surface, and 

 here it may be seen in many specimens that the direction changes 

 abruptly in area lb, becoming parallel with the outer margin and 

 leading to a termination on the inner margin within, and often well 

 within the posterior angle. In well-marked specimens, especially 

 in the females, the black line is seen to lead to the outer end of a white 

 linear mark close to the inner margin in area la (see p. 186). Faint 

 vestiges of the former white band can even be made out in lb on 

 the under surface of a few individuals. There is great variation in 

 the position of the black line in 11). In most males it unites with 

 and continues as a broadening of the black margin. 



The white spots which represent the costal half of the white band 

 of arthemis and weidemeyeri are far better developed in obsoleta than 

 in archippus. In the latter the spots are 2 to 4 in number, the last 

 being very small. In obsoleta there are always 4 large and distinct 

 spots, especially well developed in the female, while a minute 5tli 

 spot, already mentioned as placed in area 2, is nearly always present 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



and often more strongly marked on the under surface. A trace of it 

 •could be made out on the upper surface of all the females and on 17 

 of the males; from one or both sides of the remaining males it was 

 .absent, but it is likely that when these were fresh examination with 

 -a lens would have led to the detection of a few white scales. It is 

 -clear that the trace of the original discal band is more shortened in 

 archippus than in the Arizona form, and that the 4th spot in area 3, 

 or in other individuals the 3rd in area 4, is now in the position of the 

 minute trace of a 5th spot in area 2 of obsoleta. Furthermore, the 

 l)lack discal marking retains in obsoleta more of its original appearance 

 as an outer edging to the white band than in archippus — an appear- 

 ance still more fully sustained upon the hind wing. In the fore wing 

 x)f archippus it is obviously much developed, especially at the costal 

 end, in mimicry of the model plexippus. 



The trace, on the costa itself, of the anterior end of the white band 

 of the fore wing, already described as generally to be found in archip- 

 pus (31, p. 457), was present in all the females and 19 males of 

 obsoleta, but in some of these it was barely visible. This feature is 

 apparently more often wanting altogether from archippus, but the 

 two forms have reached nearly the same level, and I think that in 

 both examination with a lens would reveal the presence of some 

 trace of the marking in most or perhaps all fresh specimens. 



I have already incidentally mentioned on p. 185 the most inter- 

 esting ancestral feature in the fore-wing pattern of obsoleta, and one 

 •entirely wanting from archippus, viz., a distinct trace in area la of 

 the inner marginal end of a white discal band like that of arthemis 

 •or weidemeyeri. This linear mark was present, varying in the 

 degree of its development, in all the females and 23 males, and 

 traces might probably have been found on all when fresh. The 

 mark is also to be found on the under surface where the fore wing is 

 overlapped by the hind, but for this reason it was only examined in 

 a few specimens; in these it did not stand out on the paler ground- 

 •color as conspicuously as on the upper surface. It has been already 

 pointed out on p. 185 that the outer end of the. mark coincides with 

 the point on the inner margin indicated by the direction of the 

 vestige of the black outer border in some individuals, viz., a point 

 well within the posterior angle of the fore wing. In a single female 

 ^Apr. 17, 1909), unfortunately rather worn, the mark in la appar- 

 >€ntly extends to the black margin at the posterior angle. The 

 same relationship to a mark stopping short of the angle is also 

 ndicated, especially in fresh specimens of the female, by a distinctly 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



paler shade of the ground-color outside the discal black stripe on 

 both surfaces of both wings. The change of shade follows the 

 suggested direction of the black line to the inner margin of the fore 

 wing, although near this border it is not sharply demarcated as on 

 the rest of the wing. Such an abrupt change in the depth of the 

 color is very rarely to be seen on the upper surface of archippus. 

 Scudder has looked on the reddish spots of arthemis, occupying the 

 ■very position of this paler shade in obsoleta, as the foundation from 

 which the mimetic form arose (6, p. 714), and I have followed him 

 (21, 23). If we are right, and the transformation occurred first in 

 this area and only later in the area inside the white discal stripe, it is 

 easy to understand why there should be a difference in the shade of 

 the ground-color for natural selection to seize upon. The Arizona 

 Danaida strigosa is also paler on the outer than it is on the inner part 

 of the wings, although the transition is gradual and not sharp as in 

 ■obsoleta. On the under surface of the fore wing archippus is, in this* 

 very respect, more strikingly ancestral than obsoleta, the pattern of 

 the model having been such as to emphasize the feature. Archippus 

 is also commonly ancestral as compared with obsoleta in the distinct 

 indication by a reddish-brown tint of the red submarginal spots on 

 the under surface of both wings (31; p. 456). 



The white mark in area la of the fore wing has this further interest, 

 that it indicates the point at which the outer edge of the discal 

 band of the hind wing met that of the fore, reconstructing for us a 

 pattern like that of weidemeyeri and arthemis in which the band of 

 the hind wing is placed much further from the outer margin than it is 

 in the other wing. The evolution of the, marginal pattern of both 

 surfaces of both wings of obsoleta from a condition like that of arthemis 

 appears to have been the same as in archippus (31, pp. 456-459) and 

 to have reached nearly the same result. The slight differences cor- 

 respond with those between the respective models and are doubtless 

 due to mimicry. 



The two white spots in the fore wing cell on the under side were 

 present in all the males of obsoleta. The females showed greater 

 variability, the basal spot being sometimes absent, but generally 

 much larger than in the males. On the upper surface of the same 

 wing the distal spot was large, for this feature, in 6 females, small in 3, 

 minute in 1. In 14 males it was sharp and distinct, though small, 

 and it could be detected in 8 of the others. In the remainder the 

 triangular black mark in which the white spot lies could be made 

 out by looking carefully for it. White scales were probably origin- 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.,, 



ally present on this mark in some of the worn specimens that do not 

 now possess them. This white spot can be far more frequently 

 detected on the upper surface of ohsoleta and aixhippus than on that 

 of arthemis and probably more often than in weidermeyeri, although 

 it may attain great relative size in this species (31, PI. XXV, fig. 1). 

 Its frequent appearance in the two mimics points to an origin from 

 an ancestor of the existing North American species that was in. 

 this respect nearer in pattern to L. lorquini, in which the spot is 

 almost invariably well developed (31, 479, 480, PI. XXV, figs. 6-8). 

 At the same time the redevelopment of an ancestral feature by means 

 of mimicry must not be lost sight of as a probable interpretation. 

 The pattern of D. strigosa is such that the spot in the fore-wing cell 

 of obsoleta probably adds to the likeness, at any rate during flight.. 

 The strong development of the feature in the females — in this species 

 the more ancestral sex — favors the former hypothesis. As regards 

 the traces of the Limenitis pattern persisting in the fore- wing cell 

 on the under surface and their transference to the upper surface, 

 ohsoleta and archippns have reached nearly the same stage. The 

 most strongly marked individuals of the former are, however, more 

 ancestral, in that the white spot on the upper surface and the two> 

 spots below are larger and more conspicuous than in any examples 

 of archippus. 



The seasonal differences on the fore wing were not so well marked 

 as on the hind. Furthermore, the relationship was reversed, the 

 autumn brood being more ancestral than the spring. The difference, 

 however, was barely detectable except in one feature where it was 

 very distinct — the minute white spot in the fore-wing cell. This was 

 sharp and distinct in 11 out of 13 autumn males and only 2 out of 

 10 spring males. It was also on the whole better developed in the 

 autumn females. 



Temperature experiments on the pupa? and, if possible, on the 

 ova and larvae would be well worth trying on this form as well as on 

 archippus and floridensis. Considering what has been done by 

 Dorfmeister, Weismann, Merrifield, and Standfuss, remembering 

 also that Lamborn has recently brought evidence which suggests, 

 although it does not prove, that vestiges of "tails" can be brought 

 back to the hind wings of the tailless mimetic females of Papilio 

 dardanus (36), it is quite probable that some increase^ in the pattern 

 derived from a non-mimetic ancestor might be induced by the shock 

 of heat or cold applied to the pupal or both larval and j^upal stages.. 

 And the fact that there are certainly some seasonal differences in the 




1914,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ancestral elements of L. ohsoleta renders such experiments especially 

 hopeful. ■ 



An experiment made by Edwards and quoted by Scudder (6, p. 278) 

 is also encouraging. The black band of the hind wing of archippus 

 was widened in two butterflies which emerged from pupae subjected 

 to cold, being in one specimen, a female, nearly three times the 

 normal width. 



It is necessary, in conclusion, to point out in a few words some 

 special effects of the Danaine model, D. strigosa. Most prominent 

 among these is the peculiar shade of the ground-color of ohsoleta, 

 «o different from that of arcMppus and floridensis and so strikingly 

 like that of the model. The triangular shape of the discal spots of 

 the fore wing, especially pronounced in those of areas 3 and 4, has 

 evidently been produced in mimicry of the characteristic-looking 

 triangular and diamond-shaped spots of the model. The direction 

 ■of the line of these spots in ohsoleta which has been shown on p. 185 

 to be more ancestral, viz., more like that of arthernis and weide- 

 nneyeri, than in archippus, has doubtless been stereotyped by the 

 model, in which four of the most conspicuous white spots in areas 

 lb, 2, 3, and 4 are parallel with the outer margin of the fore wing. 

 It is also probable, as suggested in a former paper (31, p. 460), that 

 the retention of the white spots representing the discal band on the 

 liind wing upper surface, and it may be added the linear mark in 

 area la of the fore wing, has been aided by "a general likeness " 

 [during flight] "to the pale-streaked hind-wings of strigosa'." Here, 

 too, the relative development of the feature in the female favors 

 a different interpretation; for, as already pointed out (p. 182), 

 the female is slightly the more ancestral and the male the more 

 advanced mimic in this species. The fact that the traces of the 

 l)lack border of the white discal band, which undoubtedly interfere 

 "with the mimetic resemblance, on the whole follow the white spots 

 In the degree of development (p. 182) is also in favor of the sup- 

 position that the entire marking is an ancestral feature which has 

 not yet been got rid of. 



In order to prove that ohsoleta is, as its pattern strongly suggests, 

 ancestral as compared with archippus — that it stands in a position 

 Intermediate between the latter form and the non-mimetic species 

 of Limenitis — arthemis and weidemeyeri — it is necessary- to seek for 

 another line of evidence. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.,. 



11. The Male Genital Armature of the North American 



Forms of Limenitis. 



. In former years I have felt, with many other naturaUsts, some- 

 suspicion of the conclusions based on a study of the male genitalia 

 of Lepidoptera. The organs are so complex and in parts so thin- 

 walled, so liable to be deformed by twisting and pressure, that it 

 seemed unlikely that they could escape alteration in the processes of 

 manipulation and mounting. Their shapes are such that a slight 

 difference in the angle at which a drawing is made or a photograph 

 taken makes all the difference to the result. I have, however, been 

 converted by my experience of the work of my friends Dr. Karl 

 Jordan and Dr. H. Eltringham. I have seen the latter naturalist 

 preparing and studying the same parts in different individuals again 

 and again until he was able to determine with complete certaintj^ 

 the actual form that is characteristic of the species or race. I there- 

 fore asked him if he would kindly help me by preparing and drawing 

 the genitalia of the North American forms of Limenitis. In asking 

 this favor, I was, all unconsciously, making ready for a most valuable 

 test of the validity of the method and its results. At the time when 

 Eltringham made his drawings we had no copy of Scudder's great 

 work (6) available, but, when they were finished, I borrowed the 

 volumes from the library of the Entomological Society of London. 

 I turned at once to Plate 33, representing the genitalia of the Canadian 

 and eastern North American species of Limenitis, and found that 

 the four figures (9, 11, 12, 15), prepared by Edward Burgess for 

 Scudder, might almost have been copied from Eltringham's drawings 

 or the drawings from the figures! Two careful pieces of work carried 

 out independently have led to precisely the same result. It will 

 therefore be admitted that we may safely accept the six figures oiii 

 the accompanying Plate V as the expression of the true structural 

 relationships in the different species. 



Figures 4, 5, and 6 on the right side of Plate V represent the 

 male genital armatures of species also figured by Scudder, save 

 that his L. astijanax (fig. 15) represents the eastern race and Eltring- 

 ham's (fig. 4) that from Arizona. But the form of the genitalia is 

 nearly the same, as may be seen by comparing the figures, allowing 

 of course for the difference in magnification. Eltringham's figures 

 also show with Scudder's the close resemblance between astijanax 

 and arthemis (fig. 5, Scudder's fig. 9). The two representations 

 of L. archippus are almost identical, save that Scudder (figs. 11 and 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



12) represents the end' of the terminal hook as obliquely truncated^ 

 Eltringham (fig. 6) as a simple point. 



Figures 1, 2, and 3 on the left of the plate represent forms of 

 Limenitis from an area outside the limits of Scudder's monograph. 

 The claspers of L. lorquini (fig. 1) are seen to differ markedly from 

 those of all the other forms. Weidemeyeri (fig. 2), on the other 

 hand, closely resembles arthemis and ashjanax, although it is of a 

 stouter build. The main interest of the series of figures is, however, 

 concentrated in obsoleta (fig. 3). Just as the pattern of this species 

 was seen to be intermediate in many details between that of archippus^ 

 on the one hand and arthemis and weidemeyeri on the other, so is it 

 with the form of its claspers. To make sure that the appearance 

 represented in fig. 3 was not an individual peculiarity, Dr. Eltring- 

 ham made a second preparation, but with precisely the same results. 

 The comparison between figs. 2 and 3 suggests that the mimetic 

 form arose from an ancestral species with claspers more like those of 

 weidemeyeri than arthemis. Looking at these figures, some natural- 

 ists may be inclined to suppose that ohsoleta sprang from weidemeyeri 

 in the southwest, while archippus developed independently from 

 arthemis in the east and north. Such a conclusion seems to me 

 improbable. It is unlikely that independent lines of evolution 

 would have led to structures with the essential similarity that is to 

 be recognized between the forms shown in figs. 3 and 6 — I refer 

 especially to the hook below and the strong teeth above the end of 

 the organ — and still more improbable that such independent evolu- 

 tion would have led to the resemblances in minute detail that have 

 been shown to exist between the patterns of obsoleta and archippus. 



Remembering that these conclusions are founded on small differ- 

 ences between organs that are themselves very variable. Dr. Eltring- 

 ham has confirmed his results by making preparations from 3 indi- 

 viduals of archippus, 2 of obsoleta, 2 of weidemeyeri, and 2 of astyanax 

 arizonensis. He finds that the fine points or teeth are not only 

 variable in different individuals, but that they vary on the two sides 

 of the same individual. This he has shown by the careful drawings 

 reproduced on Plate V, where this want of symmetry is apparent 

 in nearly all the figures. The second specimen of weidemeyeri has 

 rather fewer teeth than the one figured. In a single specimen of 

 archippus floridensis (eros) the organs were somewhat larger than in 

 archippus and the clasper points were a little less acute. In spite of 

 great individual variability and the want of symmetry, the claspers 

 of the individuals shown in Plate V Exhibit recognizable characters 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



common to other individuals of each species examined by Eltringham 

 and, as regards three of them, by Burgess. 



Knowing my own want of experience in the comparative study 

 of these male abdominal appendages, I submitted Dr. Eltringham's 

 drawings to my friend Dr. Jordan, who wrote, Aug. 15, 1913 : "Archip- 

 pus appears to be a later modification of obsoleta. as you say. Astyanax 

 ■arizonensis, weidemeyeri, and arthemis are also closely related to one 

 another."* Dr. Eltringham also agrees that the comparative study 

 of the armatures supports the conclusions arrived at from a study 

 of the patterns. 



Considering together pattern and the structure of the claspers, 

 there are strong reasons for believing that the mimetic forms arose 

 from a North American Limenitis with the pattern of arthemis and 

 weidemeyeri, but including a white spot in the fore-wing cell upper 

 •side now seen most commonly in lorquini among North American 

 species, and with claspers like those of weidemeyeri and arthemis, 

 l)ut probably nearer to the former. 



I trust that Dr. Skinner will consider that this evolutionary 

 bistory, if not convincing before, has been rendered so by the fresh 

 evidence now produced. 



12. Similar Environmental Conditions versus Mimicry as an 

 Interpretation of Color Resemblances. 



With regard to the resemblance of Limenitis {Basilarckia) flori- 

 densis to Danaida herenice in Florida and of L. (B.) obsoleta (hidsti) 

 to D. strigosa in Arizona, Skinner suggests (33, p. 127) that "similar 

 .environmental conditions explain these color resemblances better 



^ The remainder of Dr. Karl Jordan's letter contained an interesting and 

 suggestive criticism of Scvidder's conclusion that ]>roserpina is a hybrid between 

 ■arlhemis and astyanax. 



"The differences in the genitalia between astyanax and arlhemis might render 

 copulation a little difhcult, but' are too insignificant to prevent it. According 

 to ^cudder, proserpina is the hybrid between astyanax and arthemis. If that is 

 the case, the genitalia should be intermediate. As they are identical (teste 

 Hcudder) with those of the northern insect, I do not believe that proserpina is a 

 Jiybrid. The offspring of a 9 proserpina were partly proserpina, partly arlhemis. 

 This also points in the direction that astyanax has no part in the production of 

 proserpina. Scudder appears to rely particularly on this point — proserpina 

 inclines towards astyanax where the latter prevails, and towards arthemis in the 

 places where this insect is abundant. But such an agreement in coloration may 

 .sim])ly be due to the two occurring side l)y side. It is not necessarily evidence 

 for hybridization. I have only looked at Scudder's book, not at tlu; specimens; 

 my opinion is therefore worth very little, but I incline to the belief that arthemis 

 .assumes the pattern of astyanax where it com(>s into contact with the latter, i.e., 

 that proserpina is a southern modification of arlhenris, not a hybrid. It would 

 be advisable, however, to examine the genitalia of a series of specimens of all 

 three insects." 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193* 



than the hypothesis of mimicry." He does not venture to suggest 

 this interpretation for the resemblance of L. (B.) archippus to Danaida 

 plezippus; for the great environmental changes endured by both 

 model and mimic in their extensive north and south range make any 

 such suggestion untenable. With regard to the detailed likeness of 

 three forms of Limenitis to three Danaine butterflies in North America, 

 I_ may fairly retaliate on my friend and point out in his own words, 

 mutatis mutandis, that "it seems logical to consider that they are 

 governed by a general law rather than that two of them, but not the 

 third, are caused by similar environmental conditions." I have 

 already many years ago dealt with this supposed interpretation of 

 mimetic resemblance by an appeal to the forces of the environment, 

 and the arguments then brought forward (l5) have, so far as I am 

 aware, never been met. Dr. Skinner does not attempt to meet 

 them, nor does he even allude to the peculiarly strong evidence 

 furnished by these very North American mimics against the hypothe- 

 sis of environmental conditions. Although this evidence is clearly 

 set forth in the paper which Dr. Skinner was discussing (33) , as well 

 as in earlier publications of mine (16, 21), I will repeat the substance 

 of it on the present occasion. 



The three Danaines of North America are modern invaders from 

 the Old World, quite isolated and out of place in the New, while the 

 genus Limenitis is an ancestral element in the North American 

 fauna. My own experience of insect systematics is very limited, 

 and I could not with any confidence or authority attempt to weigh 

 the value of characters which have been described as generic. Know- 

 • ing these limitations only too well, I applied to my friend Dr. K. Jordan, 

 and he, after making fresh investigations into the male genitalia 

 and carefully studying Moore's generic characters, came to the 

 conclusion that the Old World Limnas and Salatura and the New 

 World Anosia and Tasitia could not be sustained as separate genera, 

 but that all four were to be properly included in the single genus 

 Danaida. This genus is nearly related to several much-mimicked 

 groups of Danaince in the Old World, but the two species from which 

 the few American geographical forms have been derived are aliens 

 in the New World. 



Dr. G. B. Longstaff has recently shown that in the gregarious 

 instinct, as manifested by hanging in festoons and clusters from trees, 

 the Old World Danaida gemitia (plexippus) resembles its New World 

 representative D. plexippus (37, pp. 75, 76), in which the same habit 

 has often been observed (6, pp. 730, 734-7) 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Even in pattern there is but little difference between the most 

 nearly allied Asiatic and American species of Danaida, and if, as 

 Dr. Skinner believes, color and pattern are the expression of environ- 

 mental conditions, then they are the expression of an Old World, and 

 not of a New World environment. On Dr. Skinner's view, the 

 Old World invader, when it became exposed to the new environment, 

 should have come to resemble the New World resident. Instead 

 of this, the resident has come to resemble the invader. 



In concluding the present paper I may quote an opinion expressed 

 to me by Professor Svante Arrhenius. A few years ago I asked my 

 friend whether he thought it possible to explain by the incidence of 

 physico-chemical forces, such as those of the environment, the super- 

 ficial resemblance of one form to another when that resemblance 

 required, as in the development of a complex pattern, the co-opera- 

 tion of many different factors. He replied, as I expected, that he 

 did not consider the explanation possible; for the building up of such a 

 likeness was inconceivable except by the aid of selection. This was the 

 argument I advanced in 1898 (15), after an analysis which showed that 

 mimetic resemblance often requires the co-operation of many different 

 factors; and it was a great satisfaction to find the conclusion con- 

 firmed by an authority with Professor Arrhenius' broad outlook on 

 the sciences in their relation to one another and to mathematics. 



Bibliography. 



1. HoRSFiELD, T. 1857. In Horsfield and Moore's Catalogue of Lepidop- 



terous Insects, Museum of the East India Company, London. 



2. Wallace, Alfred R. 1865. Transactions of the Linnean Society of 



London, XXV (1866), Pt. I (1865), p. 1. 



3. PoTJLTON, Edward B. 1885. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 



XXXVIII, pp. 269-315. 



4. 1886. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, XL, pp. 135-173. 



5. 1889. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of London, pp. 



xxxvii-.xxxix. 



6. ScuDDER, Samuel H. 1889. "Butterflies of the Eastern United States 



and Canada," Cambridge, Mass. 



7. DiXEY, F. A. 1890. Transactions of the Entomological Society of London, 



pp. 89-129. 



8. PouLTON Edward B. 1891. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of 



London, pp. xv, xvi. 



9. Haase, E. 1893. Untersuchungen liber die Mimicry. 



10. PouLTON, Edward B. 1893. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 



LIV, pp. 417-430. 



11. Hopkins, F. Gowland. 1894. Proceedings of the Royal Society of 



London, LVII, 1894, p. 5. 



12. 1895. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, 



B., Vol. 186, Pt. II, pp. 661-682. 



13. Haase, E. 1896. "Researches on Mimicry," Pt. II, Stuttgart. English 



translation. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



14. PouLTON, Edward B. 1897. Nature, LVII, pp. 1-4, 25, 26. 



15. 1898. Journal of the Linnean Society of London, Zoolojry, XXVI, 



pp. 558-312. Also i)ul)lishod in "Essavs on Evolution," Oxford, 1908, 

 pp. 220-270. 



16. 1902. Verhandlungen of the \. International Zoological Congress, 



Berlin, pp. 171-179. 



17. HoLL.\ND, WiLLi.\M J. 1903. "The Butterfly Book," New York. 



18. Neave, S. a. 1906. Transaction.s of the Entomological Society of London, 



pp. 207-222. 



19. PouLTON, Edward B. 1906. Transactions of the Entomological Society 



of London, pp. 323-409. 



20. Rothschild and Jordan. 1906. "Novitates Zoologicse." Tring., XIII, 



pp. 411-753. 



21. PouLTON, Edward B. 1908. Transactions of the Entomological Society 



of London, pp. 447-488. 



22. 1909. Annals of the Entomological Society of America II, pp. 



203-242. Also published in "Darwin and the Origin," 1909, pp. 144-212. 



23. 1909. Mimicry and Sex, in "Darwin and Modern Science," Cam- 

 bridge, 1909, pp. 292-295. Also published in "Darwin and the Origin," 

 pp. 132-139. 



24. Garstang, W. 1910. Nature, LXXXIV, pp. 549. 550. 



25. Bates, G. L. 1911. Ibis, London, pp. 630, 631. 



26. Lamborn, W. A. 1912. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of 



London, pp. cxxxi-cxxxiv. 



27. LoNGSTAFF, G. B. 1912. "Butterfly-hunting in Many Lands," London. 



28. McAtee, W. L. 1912. Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences 



of Philadelphia, pp. 281-364. 



29. MuLLER, Fritz. 1912. Collected papers translated by E. A. Elliott in 



Appendix to "Butterfly-hunting in Many Lands," by G. B. Longstaff, 

 pp. 601-866, plates A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J. 



30. Neave, S. A. 1912. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of London, 



p. Iv. 



31. PouLTON, Edward B. 1912. Proceedings of the Entomological Society 



of London, pp. xxxi-xxxii. 



32. Skinner, Henry. 1912. Journal of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 



Philadelphia, Second Series, XV, pp. 121-127. 



33. SwYNNERTON, C. F. M. 1912. Ibis, London, October, pp. 635-640. 



34. Skinner, Henry. 1913. Entomological News, XXIV, pp. 23-27. 



Explanation of Plate V. 



Genital armatures of male North American Limenitia (Basilarchia) . Figures 

 drawn by H. Eltringham. All the figures are magnified about fourteen diameters. 



Fig. 1. — Limenitis lorquini. 



Fig. 2. — L. iceidemeyeri. 



Fig. 3. — L. obsoleta. 



Fig. 4. — L. astyanax arizonensis. 



Fig. 5. — L. arlhemis. 



Fig. 6. — L. archippus. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



February 17. 

 Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the following 

 contributions to the Proceedings : 



"On a collection of mammals from Ecuador," by Witmer Stone 

 (January 24). 



"The olfactory sense of Hymenoptera, " by N. E. Mclndoo, Ph.D. 

 (January 27). 



"Description of a Tsantsa in the ethnological collection of the 

 Academy with notes upon another specimen," by H. Newell Wardle 

 (January 30). 



"Description of a new echinoderm," by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (January 31). 



R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., Amos P. Brown, Frederick Prime, Edgar T. 

 Wherry, and Charles D. Walcott were appointed to constitute the 

 Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award. 



Joseph McFarland, M.D., was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



DESCKIPTION OF A TSANTSA IN THE ETHNOLOGICAL COLLECTION OF THE 

 ACADEMY, WITH NOTES ON ANOTHER SPECIMEN. 



SY H. NEWELL WARDLE. 



The little mummified human heads, known by their native name 

 of tsantsa, and made by the Jibaro tribes dwelling in the eastern 

 Andean valleys around the head waters of the Amazon, have been 

 known to science for half a century, ^ yet the specimens are still 

 sufficiently rare for each to merit a full description. 



The Academy has recently received a fine tsantsa, as a gift from 

 Dr. Thomas Biddle (Plate VI). It was formerly in. the possession of 

 the Museum Umlauff of Hamburg, and bears the tag of that insti- 

 tution with the inscription, 



"h No. No. 826 



23182 Equador 



Jivaros." 



The head is in fine condition, the flesh being firm and hard, though 

 apparently not brittle. 



The skin is devoid of wrinkles, despite the excessive shrinkage it 

 has undergone. It shows that peculiar chocolate-brown tone 

 characteristic of the tsantsa, the portions in relief, such as lips, 

 nostrils, and zygoma, being highly polished and lighter in color, with 

 a distinctly reddish tinge. There are no traces of tattooing observ- 

 able. 



The measurements follow: 



m. 



Horizontal circumference 240 



Transverse supra-auricular curve 154 



Maximum antero-post. diameter (inion-glabella) 093 



Maximum occipito-labial diameter 115 



Maximum transverse diameter 048 



Total length of face 080 



Alaximum bizygomatic diameter 037 



The above measurements show that the Academy's specimen 



' Dr. Moreno-Maiz, Tete d'Indien jivaro (Perou oriental) conservee et momifice 

 par un procede particulier, avec quelques renseignements sur les Jivaros. Bulle- 

 tins de la Societe d'anthropologie de Paris, t. Ill, p. 185, 1862. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



possesses the characteristic, narrow, elongated form, with strongly 

 marked prognathism and considerable asymmetry. 



Behind the temples is the usual deep depression, which, especially 

 on the right side, almost amounts to a breaking in of the surface, 

 and gives to the forehead a somewhat conical form. The whole 

 facial region also is narrow and flattened laterally. The cheeks, 

 while not sunken, are depressed below the level of the zygomatic 

 arch and of the muscles of the mouth. 



The eyebrows are apparently -asymmetrical in the arrangement 

 of the hairs — the right supercilium having its inner corner close to 

 the glabella, while that of the left is well round toward the side. 

 The head would seem to have suffered loss at these points during 

 the process of preparation. The hairs are comparatively short — 

 4 to 5 mm. in length. Considering the great contraction of the 

 piliferous tissue, the growth is not heavy. No eyelashes are visible. 



The eyelids have been inverted and stitched together, the stitches 

 from the right eye being continued to close a gash on the right surface 

 of the root of the nose. The line of the crack is traceable across the 

 root of the nose to a corresponding break on the left side which is 

 not sewed. This is found in other tsantsas and doubtless results 

 from the method of preparation which forces the nose forward and 

 upward. 



The naso-buccal region is strongly projected, which, together 

 with the slightly receding chin, gives to the lower face a snout-like 

 aspect. 



The nostrils, which are rudely circular and distended, are directed 

 almost straight to the front, in a manner suggestive of a double- 

 barreled gun. The orifices show a sufficient supply of vibrissse. 

 The septum has been broken away in the interior of the nasal passage, 

 which extends straight backward into the cavity of the head. The 

 contour of the nose shows a moderate convexity between root and tip. 



The lips are proportionately heavy and are pressed forward in a 

 horizontal curve and held together by three vertical stitches of 

 vegetable cord. The holes through which these cords pass are 

 circular, as if made with an awl, or kept open during the shrinkage 

 process by round skewers, such as appear on the Murato tsantsa 

 of Colini,'- which apparently was in process of preparation when 

 collected. The lip decoration of pendant cords attains a length of 



2 Dr. G. A. Colini, Osservazioni etnografiche siii Givari. Real Accademia dei 

 Lined, anno cclxxx, 1S82-1S8.3. Memorie della Classe di scienze morali, storiche, 

 e filologiche, vol. XI, tav. 1, fig. 1. . • 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



199 



30 centimeters. It is composed of three two-strand cords in the 

 natural color, which, doubled in the middle, is passed downward 

 through one of the piercings, whereupon its projecting loop is traversed 

 by the free ends after crossing the lips. This is the simplest form of 

 loop knot. The three cords form individual entities at the lips, 

 and, unlike the labial ornaments figured by Dr. Rivet,^ there are no 

 connecting loops with pendant cords. Twenty-one and a half 

 centimetres below the lips, one of the ends of the left-hand cord has 

 been broken off. All the remaining strands are gathered together 

 at a point 30 cm. below the lips and, treated as a single strand, tied 

 in a simple knot. Below this they resume their individuality. 

 Both ends of the central cord and the remaining end of that on the 

 left are formed into a kind of uncut tassel by turning back the ends 

 and tying them in a siiigle knot. The other three cord-ends were 

 possibly united by a similar knot, though at present one of the 

 strands is looped back and knotted upon itself. These cords are 

 generally believed to be more than mere decoration, having a mne- 

 monic value, after the "manner of the Peruvian quipu (fig. 1). 



Cords of the lip decoration: Fig. 1. The Academy's tsantsa; Fig. 2. The 



Castner tsantsa. 



The chin is rounded and slightly receding, though the latter 

 appearance is considerably enhanced by the artificial protraction of 

 the lips. Two incisions have been made in it — one on the left side 

 extending almost vertically downward and following the curve from 

 the edge of the lower lip to a point corresponding to the gnathion 

 or slightly posterior to it, the other extending forward from the 

 severed edge of the neck to a point below the right angle of the 

 mouth, where the gash turns upward. These cuts were doubtless 

 made to facilitate the extraction of the lower maxillary bone and 

 were then sewed up with twisted fibre. In the lower seam, the 

 stitches remain in place, but those of the downward incision, with 



* Dr. Rivet, Les In'diens Jibaro; etude geographique, historique et ethno- 

 graphique, L'Atdhropologie, t. XIX, p. 79. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



* 



the exception of a single stitch, have evidently been cut away from 

 the surface, leaving two parallel rows of stub ends of fibre visible on 

 the opposite sides of the crack. 



The ears, though reduced to a length of 3 cm., are apparently in 

 nowise distorted. The lobule of each is pierced with a round hole, 

 through which passes the soft cord of two twisted strands, which ties 

 on the pendant ear ornament. These are of unequal length, that of 

 the right ear being only 22 cm., while the left one measures 42 cm. 

 from its fibre proximal end to the tip of the hair tuft in which it 

 terminates. These cylindrical ear ornaments are formed of a heavy 

 rope of twisted fibre, coarser and more woody than the cords through 

 the ears and lips, and tightly bound with fibre at both ends. To the 

 distal end has been attached, partly by gumming and partly by 

 fibre wrapping, first a heavy tuft of hair, apparently human, 10 cm. 

 long on the longer, and 5 cm. on the shorter pendant. Above this, 

 with more gum and more encircling strands, was laid a circle of 

 small yellowish-green feathers, 4 cm. long. Above these come the 

 overlapping, iridescent scales which have entirely covered the 

 foundation and consist of the green elytra of a tropic beetle, 

 Mallaspis antennatus, each sewed by a single horizontal stitch of 

 very fine twisted fibre, passing through the two perforations in its 

 proximal end. Occasionally there is but one perforation, but even 

 in that case the stitch is usually horizontal, passing over the opposite 

 edge."* 



The head has been severed at a point level with the lower line of 

 the chin. The orifice has an oval form, being compressed laterally, 

 in conformity with the whole head. At the section, the thickness 

 of the flesh varies from 3 mm. to 9 mm. 



By ordinary day light, the hair is of an ebony-black, but in sun 

 light shows considerable iridescence with a marked reddish cast 

 in the shorter hair of the fore part of the head. In character, it is 

 moderately fine, wavy, and rather stiff. Much of it, upon the top and 

 sides of the head, is short; the longest at the back reaches a length 

 of 40 cm. Probably much has been removed for the scalp-belt — ■ 

 a trophy the Jibaro esteems only second to the tsantsa. 



The scalp is seamed from what was, before distorting in desiccation, 

 the posterior median line of the neck to a point midway to the 

 vertex. 



At the crown of the head, there is a single circular perforation, 



■• Dr. Colini (opera citu, tav. II, figs. 10 and 10 bis) figures ear pendants of this 

 type and ascribes them to tlie Muratos, a division of the Jibaros. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



through which passes the doubled suspension cord. The free ends 

 of this cord are knotted within the head around a small stick laid 

 in anterior-posterior position beneath the vertex. Some 8 cm. 

 above the point of issuance, the doubled cord is draAvn into an incom- 

 plete knot, i.e., the end is not pulled through, but doubled back upon 

 itself. A centimeter farther and the doubled cord is again knotted. 

 From this point it continues without further interruption, 335 mm., 

 the loop thus formed of 671 mm. being of sufficient size to permit 

 of passage over the head of the former Jibaro owTier, when the 

 tsantsa was worn suspended around the neck. 



This suspension cord is not twisted, but woven, or rather plaited, 

 with a fairly uniform width of 4 mm. The cut end within the head 

 shows ten strands, and the technique is unquestionably that of the 

 five-loop plaiting described by Dr. Roth.' It possesses the attractive 

 arrangement of strands and the flat under-surface, with slightly 

 convex upper face characteristic of this peculiar process, and a series 

 of experiments in ten-strand cord plaiting failed to reproduce it 

 exactly, until the Warrau five-loop plaiting was tried. The result 

 was more than satisfactory, for rather rapid work with this method 

 gave all the peculiarities seen in the Jibaro cord — the occasional 

 overlapping of one of the strands of the loop by its mate, thus con- 

 cealing the lower, the consequent thickening and narrowing of the 

 cord with the obscuring of the pattern — points which do not appear 

 in Dr. Roth's beautifully regular drawing. It is of interest to note 

 the occurrence of this technique — which would seem to be unre- 

 corded elsewhere — in two such widely separated localities as the 

 Amazonian slopes of the Andes in Ecuador and the Pomeroon Dis- 

 trict of British Guiana; employed, in the one case, by the Jibaros, 

 a tribal group of as yet undetermined affinities,^ and, in the other, 

 by the Warraus, whose relationships also remain to be fixed; and 

 the question arises as to whether this five-loop plait is made also by 

 the people of the far-flung Carib stock. 



While engaged in the study of the Academy's tsantsa, another of 

 these little mummified heads, came under the writer's notice, and 

 it was deemed advisable to include a brief description of it (Plate 



5 Dr. Walter E. Roth, Some Technological Notes from the Pomeroon District, 

 British Guiana. Journal of the R. Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and 

 Ireland, vol. XL, p. 27, Plate VI, figs. 1-.5. 



^ Dr. Rivet, Journ. citu, t. XVIII, p. 338. footnote, promises a detailed study 

 of the language of the Jibaros, based on vocabularies in his possession. Pre- 

 viously available evidence of its affinities was not sufficient to permit of assigning 

 the tribal group to any stock. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



yil, a and h). This trophy is owned by Mr. Samuel Castner, Jr., 

 of Philadelphia, and was obtained by him in 1903 at a sale of the 

 collection of Arthur H. Little, where it was wrongly ascribed to 

 Oceanica. It is a typical Jibaro tsantsa, in excellent condition. 



The skin is of the same chocolate-brown color, but without the 

 lighter tones which distinguish the prominences in the one already 

 described. It is smooth and shows no traces of tattooing. 



The measurements follow: 



m. 



Horizontal circumference 260 



Transverse supra-auricular curve 160 



Maximum antero-post. diameter (inion-glabella) 087 



Maximum occipito-labial diameter 105 



Maximum transverse diameter 060 



Total length of face 075 



Maximum bi-zygomatic diameter 045 



Comparing the two specimens, it is evident that the gain in both 

 the horizontal circumference and in the transverse supra-auricular 

 curve, of the Castner piece, is diie to the greater width of the head, 

 both the longitudinal diameters being actually shorter. The face 

 also is broader and shorter, with very slight prognathism. 



The head is not noticeably asymmetrical and possesses the char- 

 acteristic deep depressions behind the temples. The cheeks are 

 rounded out, so that the muscles of the mouth and the position of 

 the zygomatic arch are not brought into relief. 



The eyebrows are symmetrical and fairly heavy, with individual 

 hairs reaching a length of 10 mm. No eyelashes are visible, the 

 eyelids being inverted but not stitched. 



There is no break across the root of the nose, but a deep crease, 

 due to the protraction of the bucco-nasal region. The nasal contour 

 is marked by a moderate curve from tip to root. The nostrils are 

 directed horizontally forward and show numerous vibrissse. Neither 

 septum nor alia? have been perforated. 



The lips, which are proportionately heavy, show three vertical 

 piercings, each occupied by a short twisted cord which traverses 

 both lips and is knotted in front, leaving short pendant ends. To 

 these cords, just above the point of issuance from the perforation 

 in the lower lip, a horizontal cord is attached, which, in turn, bears 

 the characteristic lip decoration of long, pendant cords — twenty-two 

 in number and separated into two groups by the knotting of the 

 horizontal sustainer around the central vertical cord. The long 

 twisted cords of both groups fall straight to a length of m. .367 (fig. 2). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



The chin is roiiiulcHl, l)ut not receding; it falls hito a vertical line 

 with the lower forehead. No incisions are visible, only a deep 

 furrow from the neck to behind the position of the maxilla on the 

 left side. In this, as in other details, the Castner tsantsa shows the 

 work of a more skilful preparator than was the Jibaro from whose 

 hand the Academy's specimen came. 



The ears are considerably distorted so that an accurate measure- 

 ment is not possible. Both have been pierced through the lobule, 

 though the right one alone bears an ornament — a section of bird (?) 

 bone, hung by a doubled cord of twisted fibre drawn through it, 

 the knotted loop end being pulled back within the hollow bone. 



The head has been severed by a diagonal cut, which passed close 

 to the head on the right, but left a portion of the neck on the left 

 side. The flesh at the section varies from 4 to 2 mm. in thickness. 



The hair is of a beautiful ebony -black, fine and wavy, and reaches 

 a length of 56 cm. The seaming of the scalp extends from the neck 

 in the posterior median line almost to the vertex, where the single 

 perforation occurs through which the suspension cord is passed. 

 This latter has a length of only 50 cm. from the point of issuance 

 from the perforation to its re-entry therein. The width of the cord 

 is 3 mm., and the technique is evidently the same five-loop plaiting 

 noted in the suspension cord of the Academy's tsantsa. 



Comparison with the table of measurements of the eleven mum- 

 mied heads studied by Dr. Rivet,^ shows that in both the tsantsas 

 here described the horizontal circumference, the transverse supra- 

 auricular curve, and the maximum antero-posterior diameter rise 

 above the average, though not reaching the maximum measurements. 

 In maximum transverse diameter, the Academy's piece falls within 

 3 mm. of the minimum, while the Castner head is above the average; 

 in total height of face, the Academy's approaches the maximum, 

 with a bi-zygomatic diameter below the minimum, while the height 

 of the Castner specimen is below the minimum and its width at the 

 zygoma somewhat below the mean. 



Reference should be made to the preparation of these trophy 

 heads, because of its relation to the structure and condition of the 

 finished product. Three methods have been described by reliable 

 travellers, and it is probable that all are, in the main, correct, the 

 differences being due to local variation of practice among the Jibaro 

 tribes. 



^ Dr. Rivet, Journ. citu, t. XIX, j). 76. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Dr. Rivet,^ following Lubbock and other writers, gives the fol- 

 lowing procedure. After the extraction of the cranium through 

 the posterior incision, the skin with adherent flesh is boiled in an 

 herb/lecoction. Withdrawn from this, it is placed around a spherical 

 stone, superheated, and, after shrinkage, upon a smaller stone, and 

 then upon a third yet smaller. Meanwhile, another hot stone is 

 passed back and forth over the surface, thus facilitating the shrinking 

 and drying of the tissue. The lips, and sometimes the eyelids also, 

 had previously been carefully sewed to prevent the retraction in 

 desiccation, causing them to gape. 



According to the engineer Von Hassel,^ after the substitution of 

 the hot stone for the cranium, the head is hung in the smoke of a 

 palm-root fire, but there is no mention of boiling. The lips are 

 "deformed — by means of a cord and a little piece of chonta" (wood). 



The third description of the method pursued, which was given 

 Lieut. Safford by Sefior Tirado^'' — an eye-witness — is an interesting 

 blending of the two preceding. According to this statement, imme- 

 diately after the extraction of the skull, the scalp is sewed up, and the 

 hole in the vertex pierced and supplied with its cord. Afterwards 

 the head is dipped in the hot infusion of herbs, "care being taken 

 not to allow the roots of the hair to enter," though how this latter 

 precaution is possible is not readily conceivable. Dried by the 

 introduction of hot stones, it is then smoked over the cooking-fire, 

 the hair being wrapped in leaves for protection. After three or 

 four months of curing in the smoke, the lips are pierced and the 

 decorations added. 



None of these descriptions makes mention of any lashing or means 

 of holding the cranial envelope in position during the curing process. 

 Yet the Murato tsantsa of Colini,^^ which is evidently a head obtained 

 before the finishing touches had been added, shows a slender spike 

 of wood passed backward through the nostrils and out through the 

 perforation at the vertex. A cord is lashed around the ends of this 

 stick and over the forehead, thus forcing the nostrils forward and 



^Dr. Rivet, Joum. cilii, t. XIX, p. 71; also Sir, John Lubbock, Note on the 

 Macas Indians. Journal of the Anthropologicol Inatitule of Great Britain nttd 

 Ireland, vol. Ill, p. 30. Sir John, however, states that the bones were removed 

 through the neck after the boiling. 



3 Jorge M. von Hassel, Las Tribus salvajes de la regi6n amaz6nica del Peru. 

 Boletin de la Sociedad (ieogrdfica de Lima, XVII, 1905, i)p. 56-57. 



'" Dr. Walter Hough, Prepared Human Head. American Anthropologist, 

 vol. XIV, p. 406. 



'1 Dr. G. A. Colmi, opera citu, p. 3Q2et seq.,itiv. 1, fig. 1; also Dr. Rivet, Jo»)V(. 

 citii, t. XIX, p. 82, PI. 1, fig. 3. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



upward, and causing the deep bend at the root of the nose, which is 

 characteristic of all genuine tsantsas, and, in the Academy's example, 

 has resulted in an actual breaking of the integument. 



The three piercings of the lips are also occupied by skewers lashed 

 in place; another stick is thrust into the auditory meatus and the 

 neck is secured to a wooden ring by stitching. 



The lips, then, in this unfinished trophy, are already pierced and 

 held together by skewers, which fix them rigidly in the desired 

 position. Together with the spike through nostril and vertex, they 

 form an essential part of the taxidermy and account for the char- 

 acteristic protraction of the lips. Certainly in both specimens 

 herein described, the perforations of the lips, like those of the lobules, 

 were accomplished while the flesh was comparatively soft. On the 

 other hand, the stick thrust into the auditory meatus would seem not 

 to have been a constant feature of the preparation, as the small hole 

 made by it is found only occasionally. 



Some sort of device must have been in use for keeping open 

 during desiccation the flaccid skin of the neck, and the wooden 

 circle of Colini's tsantsa would have admirably served this purpose. 

 The Academy's specimen shows at the section of the neck certain 

 fine grooves, running from the outer to the inner surface of the 

 flesh, as if it had been traversed by stitches and had later been cut 

 or broken away along the plane of the piercings, leaving the grooves 

 exposed. 



It seems to be certain that, whether the preparation occupied one 

 day, one week, or several months, whether it was by means of alter- 

 nate steaming and drying or by smoking, or by a combination of 

 both methods — as seems probable — the seaming of the scalp, the 

 piercing of the vertex and of the lips, and the insertion of the wand 

 from nostril to vertex must have' been done while the flesh had not 

 yet hardened; but, apparently, when the last of these operations 

 took place, the trophy was already reduced practically to its final 

 dimensions and, in the case of the Academy's tsantsa, had lost some 

 of its flexibility. 



Explanation of Plates VI, VII. 



Plate VI. — Tsantsa, mummified human head, prepared by the Jibaro Indians of 



Ecuador. A. N. S. P., No. 15,048. 

 Plate VII. — Tsantsa: a, front view; b, lateral view. Owned by Mr. Samuel 



Castner, Jr. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW ECHINODERM. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Several years ago the Academy received from Mr. Clarence 

 Bloomfield Moore specimens of a fossil sea-urchin, which had been 

 obtained from- material dredged from near the mouth of the Withla- 

 coochee River, Florida, in an area mapped as Pliocene. The speci- 

 mens represent an undescribed species, which may be called — • 



Eupatagus mooreanus n. sp. Plate VIH. 



The outline is broadly ovate, slightly emarginate in front, tapering 

 a little, and abruptly, vertically truncate behind. The upper surface 

 is moderately convex, highest at the posterior third of the length; 

 lower surface nearly flat, slightly concave at the sides and anteriorly 

 close to the peristome, 



The ambulacral centre is at the anterior six-tenths of the length. 

 Unpaired ambulacral area indistinct, without large pores. Paired 

 ambulacral areas petaloid, nearly straight-sided, closed at the distal 

 ends. Those of the posterior pair are a little longer than the anterior. 

 They form an acute angle with one another and right angles with 

 the areas of the anterior pair. The poriferous zones are depressed, 

 with equal, circular pores in pairs connected by furrows. The four 

 genital pores are equal, round, the anterior pair much closer than the 

 posterior pair. The peripetalous fasciole is distinct, not sinuous. 

 The tubercles in the interambulacral areas are very unequal. The 

 larger ones stand in about five waved concentric series and occupy 

 slight depressions. The posterior interambulacral area is convex 

 and not distinctly tuberculate, having a quite distinct median suture. 



The peristome is in form of a transverse oval, flattened posteriorly . 

 It is situated at the anterior third of the length. The periproct 

 opens at the summit of the flattened posterior area, is shortly oval^ 

 somewhat higher than wide, and a little angular at the ends. The 

 base is closely and strongly tuberculate, the tubercles becoming 

 much smaller at the periphery. There is a smooth raised segment 

 from the peristome to the posterior end. 



Length 61, transverse diameter 51, alt. 29 mm. 



This species is about the size of E. clevei Cotteau, from which it 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



differs by the narrower ainbulacral petals, the vertically truncate 

 posterior end, wider peristome, equal genital pores, and the different 

 arrangement of the tubercles. 



The largest specimen is 64 mm. long. The type is No. 1147 

 A. N. S. P. 



Explanation of Plate VIII. 

 Upper, lateral and basal views of Eupatagus mooreanus Pils. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



March 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported the reception of the following 

 papers as contributions to the Proceedings: 



"Fishes collected by the Princeton Expedition to North Green- 

 land in 1899," by Henry W. Fowler (February 14). 



"Description of a new Blenny from New Jersey, with notes on 

 other fishes from the Middle Atlantic States," by Henry W. Fowler 

 (February 24.) 



"Fresh-water mollusks of the Oligocene of Antigua," by Amos B, 

 Brown and Henry A. Pilsbry (March 9). 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Thomas Wistar, M.D., September 27, 1913. 

 N. Roe Bradner, M.D., February 6, 1914. 

 Charles S. Welles, February 24, 1914. 

 Walter Rogers Furness, February 27, 1914. 

 Edwin J. Houston, March 1, 1914. 

 Stuart Wood, March 2, 1914. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1914.] NATUFAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



FEESH-WATER MOLLUSKS OF THE OLIGOCENE OF ANTIGUA. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN AND HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In a recent paper by one of us^ reference has been made to the 

 deposits carrying these fresh-water shells, which were first noted by 

 Nugent.- His collection of iVntigua fossils, including, no doubt, speci- 

 mens of these fresh-water moUusks, is still preserved in the collections 

 of the Geological Society of London, now in the British Museum. 

 These deposits- were later described by Purves^ as his division E, 

 under the name of the "Lacustrine or fresh-water chert." These 

 beds are mapped by Purves as extending completely across the 

 island, in the central plain from Corbizon Point and Dry Hill in the 

 northwest to near Willoughl)y Bay and Falmouth Harbor in the 

 southeast. His observations on the fossils appear to have been 

 made at Dry Hill and at Corbizon Point. M. Purves records the 

 following genera as occurring in these cherts: Melania, Zonites, 

 Nematura or Amnicola, Planorhis, Melampus, Neritina, Truncatella, 

 Pomatias. He also states that the specific descriptions of these 

 shells will be published later, but this seems never to have been done. 



The species described in this paper were collected from the sea 

 cliffs at Dry Hill, where these flinty beds, carrying fresh-water species, 

 outcrop on the seashore and where they have weathered out by the 

 action of the rains and the salt water dissolving away the calcareous 

 material and leaving the silicified shells intact in a remarkably good 

 state of preservation. When these beds were seen inland at several 

 points, the weathered surfaces of the layers exposing the shells were 

 not so well preserved as at Dry Hill or at Corbizon Point, on'.y 

 sections being found in most cases, as the shells were imbedded in 

 the compact flint. . This Avas, of course, the case at the two localities 

 above noted, likewise; the hard, compact flint layers, varying in 

 thickness from one to four inches, being frequently crowded with 

 these fresh-water shells that showed only in sections upon the frac- 



1 Brown, Notes on the Geology of the Island of Antigua, Proc. A. N. S. P., 1913, 

 pp. 58-4-816. See also p. 596 of the same paper. 



2 Nugent, A Sketch of the Geoiogv of the Island of Antigua, Trans. Geol. Soc. 

 London, ser. 1, Vol. V, (1821), pp.. 459-47.5. 



3 Esquisse geologique de I'lle d'Antigoa, Bull. Mus. Roy. Hist. Nat. Belg., 

 Vol. Ill, 1884-85, pp. 273-318. 



14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



tured surfaces. Where the sea had been eating into the cliff, and 

 detaching slabs of the hard, flinty layers, the surfaces of these flint 

 slabs were completely covered with the flint pseudomorphs of the 

 shells, these in most cases having the finest sculpture perfectly 

 preserved. The relation of these beds to the other members of 

 Browii's division 3 as given in his Notes on the Geology of the Island of 

 Antigua is shown in the section of the rocks at Dry Hill, on page 595,* 

 and there it will be seen that the lacustrine or fresh-water chert layers 

 immediately overlie the Volcanic Sands which form the lower 

 23+ feet of the section. The same sequence of deposits is also 

 seen at Corbizon Point, where the fresh-water chert layers with silicified 

 wood occur along the shore immediately above these same Volcanic 

 Sands that are found at Dry Hill. Near the Botanic Station, just 

 east of St. John's, the flinty layers with fresh-water shells are found, 

 but the shells are imbedded in the flint and only show in sections 

 in the hard, compact rock. The reddish beds of the Volcanic Sands 

 are absent at this locality east of the Botanic Station or are only 

 represented by sandy nodules in the white tuffs. No silicified wood 

 was seen at this place. 



The species described below belong to the genera Hemisinus, 

 Bythinella, and Planorhis. The genus Hemisinus is undoubtedly 

 what Purves has called Melania and indeed he mentions Hemisinus 

 as being found living in Cuba. These species of Hemisinus are 

 described below. The Bythinella is probably what Purves referred 

 to Nematura or Amnicola; we have described one species. The one 

 Planorhis which we describe is the only representative of this genus 

 in the collection. We found no representatives of Melampus, Trun- 

 catella, Pomatias, Zonites, and Neritina, mentioned by Purves. 

 Hemisinus antiguensis n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 1, 3, 5, 6. 



The shell is slender, diameter contained nearly three times in the 

 length; whorls rather numerous, probably at least fifteen in a perfect 

 shell, as a young one 12.5 mm. long has twelve whorls, the upper 

 part of the spire being very slender. Whorls convex, sculptured 

 with many rounded ribs, as wide as their intervals, somewhat curved, 

 the concavity forward and somewhat protractive. There are about 

 25 ribs on a whorl. Above the lower suture of each whorl there are 

 two or three spiral cords, the lower one strongest. ( )n the last whorl 

 the ribs extend to the periphery where they disappear, the peripheral 

 region and the base having numerous spiral cords. The aperture 



' Brown, loc. cit. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. , 211 



is but rarely preserved, but in the best examples the peristome seems 

 to be somewhat effuse at the base of the columella. 



Length 16.5, diam. 6 mm., 8 whorls remaining. 

 " 19.5, " 6.4 " 8 



The sculpture of longitudinal ribs with basal spirals is charac- 

 teristic. The same type of sculpture occurs in various South Ameri- 

 can species of Hemisinus. It could readily be matched also in 

 Melania and related forms or in the Pleuroceratidce. 



There seems to be variation in the development of the spirals. 

 Many specimens show weak traces of impressed spirals over the 

 ribs throughout, and this seems to be the normal condition; but in 

 some examples the ribs appear to be smooth except near their lower 

 ends. 



This species, like the associated forms, has the basal sinus or 

 notch obsolete, as in part of the recent species. 

 Hemisinus siliceus n. sp. PI. IX, fig. 2. 



The shell is Melaniiform, regularly tapering, the diameter of last 

 whorl contained about 2^ times in the total length. The whorls 

 are convex, and apparently without any sculpture except growth- 

 lines. The last whorl has fine, reversed sigmoid growth striae, which 

 retract somewhat below the suture, then advance, as in H. cuhaniana. 

 In the type specimen a former peristome, indicating a period of 

 growth arrest, appears as a sigmoid varix on the last whorl. This 

 indicates a more strongly sigmoid outer lip than in the recent Antil- 

 lean species. 



Length 26 mm., about 6 whorls remaining, the summit lost; diam. 

 10.8 mm. 



No entirely perfect aperture was found on the slabs collected, 

 but so far as we can judge, it seems to be much like that of Hemisinus 

 cubanianus (Orb.). It is not unlikely that H. siliceus is ancestral, 

 or at least a collateral species not far removed from the ancestral 

 stock of the smooth Antillean species of Hemisinus. 



There is, of course, a possibility that this Antigua species belongs 

 to the genus Pachycheilus, which is represented in the recent fauna 

 of Cuba by P. conicus (Orb.) and P. violaceus Prest.; but the 

 straighter columella does not, in our opinion, favor this view. 



The type has lost the shell from the spire by conversion into flint, 

 but the surface has been preserved in perfection on the last whorl. 



Hemisinus latus n. sp. PI. IX. fig. 4. 



This form is represented by somewhat numerous internal casts, 

 of which the largest has been selected for illustration. It differs 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



from the associated species by its decidedly broader figure. The 

 diameter of last whorl is contained about 2| times in the estimated 

 total length. The whorls, of which somewhat over 5 are preserved 

 in the type, are shorter and broader than in H. siliceus. Very little 

 of the shell is preserved and the sculpture is unknown. It is proba- 

 bly smooth. The aperture is largely concealed by anotheV shell, 

 the thin, arcuate, outer lip alone remaining visible. 

 Length of broken specimen 17 mm.; diameter 8.5 mm. 



Bythinella antiguensis n. sp. Text fig. 1. 



The shell is oblong, pupiform, smooth; outlines of the spire 

 convex, the apex conspicuously obtuse. Whorls 4, very convex, 

 aperture vertical, shortly ovate, its length contained 2| 

 times in that of the shell- peristome in one plane, thin. 

 Length 1.8, diam. 1.1, length of aperture 0.7 mm. 

 This very minute form is not rare. It has the very 

 obtuse summit and the pupiform shape of the species 

 usually referred to Bythinella, rather than the shape 

 of Paludestrina, if, indeed, the two groups are distinct. 

 Of course, any generic reference of a minute fossil 

 Amnicoloid shell of this sort is purely provisional, unless it is from 

 a region where the recent fauna and its antecedents are well known. 



Planorbis siliceus n. sp. PI. IX, figs, la, 3a, 5a, 6a. 



This is a species of the section Tropicorbis.^ The shell is rather 

 thick, with the periphery rounded, more convex towards the right 

 side. The two sides are about equal in width of the concavity, but 

 that on the right side penetrates more deeply, being vortex shaped. 

 The last whorl is rounded on this side. On the left side the last 

 whorl is subangular and the cavity is less infundibuliform. 



Diameter 3.5, greatest alt. 1.7 mm. 

 5 " " 2.1 " 



This species belongs to a widely spread group of the modern tropical 

 American fauna. 



Paleogeographic Results. 



The species of Hemisifius, as of related genera, are river snails. 

 They do not inhabit intermittent streams, ponds, or lakes, except as 

 the latter may form part of a stream system; and they are equally 

 unknown in brackish water. The occurrence of several well-differen- 

 tiated species therefore implies the presence of rivers or permanent 



5 Tropicorbis n. section, type P. liebmanni Dkr. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



streams. Melanians are not likely to be distributed by adventitious 

 means from stream to stream, as Physa, Anodonta, and some other 

 fresh-water mollusks are. Their egg capsules are not gelatinous or 

 likely to adhere to the feet of water fowl, but are firmly fixed to 

 stones, shells, or the like. Wherever their distribution has been 

 studied in detail, it has been found remarkably "consistent and 

 explicable by actual stream connections or such as have probably 

 existed within the life of the species or group in question. As the 

 relationships of the Antiguan species are with South America {H. 

 antiguensis) and with Cuba (H. siliceus), it seems probable that (1) 

 at the stage of the Oligocene when this bed was formed, a consider- 

 able land surface existed in the Antiguan area, and (2) that this area 

 was, or had been, connected with the South American main. 



It seems likely that the present Hemisinus species of Cul)a and 

 Jamaica are descendants of the same South American stock. There 

 is in Cuba, however, another totally distinct genus of Melanians, 

 Pachycheilus, represented by P. nigrata (Poey) and P. violaceus 

 Prest. of the recent fauna, which are apparently traceable to a 

 Central American connection. 



The other fresh-water snails of the silex bed are not significant. 

 The Planorbis belongs to a group widely spread in the recent Neotropi- 

 cal fauna and the " Bythinella" is an ambiguous form of unknown 

 relationships.^ 



Explanation of Plate IX. 



Figures 1, 3, 5, 6. — Slabs strewn with Hemisinus antiguensis n. sp. At the posi- 

 tions marked a are seen specimens of Planorbis siliceus n. sp., the type 

 being 6 a. 



Fig. 2. — Hemisinus siliceus n. sp. 



Fig. 4. — Hemisinus latus n. sp. 



* The generic characters of the fresh-water Rissoids are often not expressed 

 in the shell. A fcBsil form of simple structure cannot be located generically with 

 any degree of certainty, unless in a region where the characteristics and affinities 

 of the associated fauna have been thoroughly worked out. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



TWO NEW SARCOSPORIDIA. 



BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



Sarcocystis leporum sp. n. 



The material on which the present study is based consists of the 

 arm and shoulder of a very old male rabbit shot at Bowie, Md., 

 on December 13, 1913. The presence of Sarcosporidia in rabbits has 

 been recorded from time to time in the literature, and there are four 

 specimens of this parasite in the collection of the Zoological Division 

 of the Bureau of Animal Industry, the localities of which were 

 Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, and Illinois. No descrip- 

 tion of the organism has ever been published, nor has it received a 

 name. With regard to this latter point certain authors have of late 

 assumed that the Sarcosporidia, like other parasites, are in the case 

 of each species capable of dwelling in any one of several hosts, and 

 there is a certain amount of experimental evidence that this is true. 

 Nevertheless, in the event of a duplication of names, it is very easy 

 to relegate one of them to synonymy, whereas it is extremely awkward 

 to be obliged to refer to a parasite as the sarcosporidian found by a 

 certain author in a certain animal from a certain locality on a certain 

 date. Hence it seems best to make a new species, and I propose 

 to call this parasite Sarcocystis leporum. 



In the fresh tissue the parasitic "cysts were visible as short, delicate 

 threads or rods lying in the muscles. They were about two milli- 

 meters long, and the diameter measured in paraffin sections was 

 from 200 to 250 microns. It may incidentally be mentioned, how- 

 ever, that the size of a sarcosporidian cyst is of no diagnostic value, 

 since it is wholly a function of the age, and the cysts of this particular 

 specimen were probably much under the possible maximum size. 



Compared with the infestations seen in rats, mice, and ducks, that 

 of the rabbit here under consideration was very slight, and a casual 

 glance at the flesh would probably not have revealed anything amiss. 

 Data as to how heavily rabbits may become infested are, however, 

 wholly lacking. 



The cysts, in paraffin sections, showed nothing noteworthy. The 

 cyst wall was from 5 to 6 microns thick, and seen under low powers 

 presented the typical striated appearance. Under high magnifica- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



tion, however (500 to 1000), it was easy to see that the wall was 

 composed of a great number of papilliform processes, standing closely 

 packed together upon a sort of basement membrane and with their 

 outer ends wholly free. That is, the cyst wall, at least in this case, 

 does not consist of a membrane pierced by pores, nor of a congeries 

 of rods bounded both without and within by a membrane, but of 

 rods or papillae projecting freely from a basement membrane. 

 Furthermore, in this case, there was nothing to show that any part 

 of the cyst wall was derived from the surrounding host tissue. 



As already stated, the papillae rested upon a basement membrane 

 with which they were apparently continuous. Within there was 

 to be seen the structure usual for sarcosporidian cysts; that is, a 

 division of the central space into compartments, the walls of which 

 were a continuation of the membrane inclosing the cyst. Finally, 

 in the central portions of the cysts there was a small area free of 

 spores, and here the coarsely alveolar structure of the frame work 

 could readily be seen. This is in itself an indication that these cysts 

 were young rather than old, since it is a matter of common obser- 

 vation that in old cysts there is always present a central space of 

 considerable extent in which there are no spores. 



As is usual, the cysts were closely packed with spores which 

 showed a certain disposition to be arranged in files, radiating from 

 the centre to the periphery. 



A study of the spores themselves revealed data of considerably 

 greater interest. Several mounts were prepared by smearing out the 

 contents of the cysts on slides, drying, fixing in absolute alcohol and 

 staining in Giemsa. As thus prepared, the spores measured about 

 13/'- long by 5.'j- wide, the precise figures for the average of 20 specimens 

 measured being 13. 14/^- long by 5.16/^- broad. The longest spore 

 measured was 16/'- long, the broadest 6/'- wide. The figure given for 

 the length, however, is a trifle too small, since the measurement was 

 taken in a straight line, no allowance being made for the curvature. 

 Furthermore, it is not unlikely that the fixed spores are too wide, 

 since they are quite large enough to be flattened in the process of 

 fixation. 



The spores, although possessing the typical banana shape, are not 

 quite symmetrical, it being generally possible to distinguish between 

 a narrower, more pointed and a broader, more rounded end. This 

 narrower end, which may be regarded as anterior, is occupied by a 

 very solid mass of homogeneous cytoplasm, which has but little 

 affinity for the stain and contrasts very sharply with the deeply 




216 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Mar., 



staining cytoplasm of the remainder of the spore. Thus, when 

 viewed with powers of only 200 to 300, the spores show two very 

 clear-cut oval areas, the nucleus in the posterior half and the differ- 

 entiated area in front, and this latter is sometimes so faintly stained 

 that the complete outline of the spore cannot be followed. 



The clear region is sometimes oval, sometimes truncated behind, 

 as shown in the figure. It may be spoken of "as the rostrum of the 

 spore. Behind it, the cytoplasm abruptly assumes the character 

 which it possesses in the remaining portion of the spore where it is 

 densely staining and conspicuously alveolar. It is to be noted, how- 



Spores of Sarcocystis leporum. X 3500. 



ever, that the cytoplasm nearest the rostrum shows the coarsest 

 alveoli, while backward the alveoli become smaller and smaller, so 

 that in many cases the cytoplasm in the posterior half of the spore 

 becomes very dense, on account of the excessive minuteness of the 

 alveoli. In other cases, however, the alveoli are distinctly visible 

 throughout the entire extent of the dense spongioplasm of the cell. 

 At times, also, the spongioplasm encroaches somewhat upon the 

 homogeneous cytoplasm of the rostrum, there being here visible 

 one or more alveoli or one or more strands of spongioplasm. There 

 is, finally, often to be seen one or two clearer regions in the cytoplasm 

 between the rostrum and nucleus, but it is not believed that these 

 represent morphological entities. 



Following the rule for the spores of Sarcosporidia, there is no mem- 

 brane, the spores being naked masses of protoplasm. 



The nucleus may occupy nearly any position in the cell, but it is 

 usually placed near the posterior end. Although, as already stated, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 217 



it stands out very clearly when the spores are viewed with rather 

 low powers, it seems for the most part to be no more than a clear 

 space in the cytoplasm, and it is only occasionally that a definitive 

 nuclear membrane can be demonstrated. Within it is normally 

 provided with a number of chromatin granules. These granules 

 vary a good deal in size. At times they are quite minute and occur 

 in clusters and chains. More frequently, however, they are quite 

 large, round, or elongated, and appear to be wholly free in the nuclear 

 sap. At times, also, there is a more or less typical ch/j.natin net. 

 Whereas these differences may have some significance, it is perhaps 

 best to regard them merely as variants of some fundamental plan. 



The spores of certain species of the Sarcosporidia which attack 

 mammals are described and figured as being liberally provided with 

 rather densely staining granules, concerning which there has been a 

 good deal of theoretical discussion. Frequently, also, such spores 

 have been described as showing a differentiated area at one end, and 

 attempts have been made to correlate this area with the polar cap- 

 sules of the spores of the Myxosporidia. In the case in hand, the 

 spores of Sarcocystis leporum, there is at least no question about the 

 structure, which is remarkably clear cut and perfectly obvious. 

 And the rostrum of this spore, whatever may be its homologies, is 

 clearly the analogue of the rostra of the sporozoites and merozoites 

 of Coccidia. Moreover, it seems an entirely safe assumption 

 that its function is to enable the spore to drill its way into the intes- 

 tinal epithelium of its host, without prejudice as to whether this 

 host be an invertebrate, another rabbit, or some carnivorous mammal 

 or bird which preys upon the rabbit. 

 Sarcocystis setophagae sp. n. 



Stiles (1895 c)^ notes that Dr. Hassall, of the Bureau of Animal 

 Industry, discovered a sarcosporidian in the muscles of a redstart 

 {Setophaga ruticilla), and a description of this parasite was promised 

 at the time. This description, however, was never published, and the 

 material, consisting of two cysts embedded in paraffin, was recently 

 given to me by Dr. Hassall. 



Based upon the number of sections yielded by the cysts, their 

 length was about 2.5 mm., while the largest cross sections measured 

 about 1 mm. in diameter. Hence the cysts are thick in proportion 

 to their length, which seems characteristic for Sarcosporidia of birds. 

 The cysts were divided into the usual compartments. 



1 Stiles. 1895 c. — New American finds of Sarcosporidia (Notes on parasites. 

 28.) Vet. Mag., Phila., v. 1 (11) (Nov., 1894), Jan. 17, pp. 728, 729. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



Unfortunately, the material was not in good condition for cytological 

 study, and very little could be made out as to the structure of the 

 spores. As well, however, as could be determined, the form was 

 that shown by the spore of Sarcocystis rileyi, that is, one end was 

 rounded, the other pointed. The spores were sometimes straight, 

 sometimes curved, but in the latter case the curvature was slight, 

 which also seems characteristic for avian Sarcosporidia. Within, 

 in a few of the better preserved specimens, it was possible to make 

 out a vacuole in which was a chromatin granule. This structure is 

 probably to be interpreted as a vesicular nucleus. 



The spores were small, measuring from 4 to 5 microns long by 

 .75 to 1.00 micron broad. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



A NEW DIATOM. 

 BY CHARLES S. BOYER, A.M. 



Chaetoceros elmorei n. sp. Plate X. 



Prof. C. J. Elmore, of Grand Island College, Nebraska, sent me 

 recently a slide containing a form of Chcetoceros. On first examina- 

 tion, the species appeared to resemble C. wighamii Br. On receipt, 

 however, of material which was subjected to a closer examination, 

 I have concluded that the species is new. The material had been 

 dried upon blotting paper and it was necessary to soak it for a long 

 while to secure filaments of the proper size, it being impossible, of 

 course, to resort to the proper methods of cleaning. The character 

 of the chromatophores is not known. I have, however, succeeded in 

 mounting a number of slides which show quite clearly the structure 

 of the valves and spores. 



All species of the genus Chcetoceros have heretofore been considered 

 as marine, and have not been found inland except in the Caspian 

 Sea. The species about to be described is found in Devils Lake, 

 North Dakota. 



It may be of interest to give a- brief description of the locality 

 from the Second and the Sixth Biennial Reports of the State Geological 

 Surveij of North Dakota, of the years 1903 and 1912, respectively. 

 In the Report for 1903, from an article by Mr. E. J. Babcock, Water 

 Resources of the Devils Lake Region (p. 208), and also from an article 

 by Mr. Howard E. Simpson, The Physiography of the Devils-Stump 

 Lake Region, in the Report for 1912 (p. 105), the following information 

 is obtained'.. 



Devils Lake is in Lat. 48° N., Long. 99° W. It is a glacial lake and 

 "occupies a basin formed largely by morainic ridges." Its length 

 is "about twenty-four miles, and the width averages, perhaps, 

 between four and seven miles." It lies at an elevation of about 

 fourteen hundred feet, and its greatest depth is not more than 

 twenty-nine feet. No streams of any size enter the lake, its chief 

 source of supply being the annual rainfall from the surrounding 

 ridges, and it has no outlet. Although originally a large fresh- 

 water lake, it is now much reduced in size, and its waters "may be 

 termed alkaline and brackish, since they show a salinity of about 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



one per cent., of which magnesium and sodium salts constitute a 

 considerable portion." 



The following is the diagnosis of the form: 



Filaments straight, 23;^ wide. 



Cells rectangular with sharp angles; valves slightly convex; 

 foramina narrowly linear, irregular, bipartite. 



Setae straight, hollow, approaching each other at an acute angle 

 and crossing at a right angle near the corners of the valves, about 

 ten times the length of the valve. In valve view they diverge from 

 each other at an angle of about 80°. 



Terminal setaj shorter than the others, somewhat curved in the 

 direction of the filament. 



Spores with the primary valve arcuats, secondary valve produced 

 into a subconical frustum. Rarely in free spores the primary valve 

 is covered with minute spines. 



The valves are joined together near one side by a tubular com- 

 missure, from six-tenths to eight-tenths of a micron in thickness, 

 situated near the edge of the valve, usually at unequal distances 

 from each end, and, so far as noticed, is found near the margin on 

 the same side of all valves in the filament. 



The presence of the connecting tube and the unusual locality 

 combine to render this form a unique species, which I take pleasure 

 in naming after Prof. Elmore. 



An examination of fig. II, i and k, in Plate III, in Schiitt's article 

 {Ueber die Diatomeengattung Chwtoceros, Bot. Zeitung, 1888) offers 

 an interesting suggestion as to the origin of the commissure. In 

 the genus Thalassiosira the cells are connected by mucilaginous 

 threads which are central. In the present species of Chcetoceros the 

 commissure is eccentric and appears to be tubular. In C. simile the 

 valves touch each other, and in several species, such as cojnpactnm, 

 the centre of the valve is produced or considerably elevated, but 

 in no previously descril^ed form has the union of the frustules been 

 consummated, except by the interlacing of the awns. 



The other diatoms sparingly found in the waters of the lake include 

 species of Fragilaria, Gomphonema, Epithemia, and Surirella. Owing 

 to the presence of great quantities of small Crustacea, the material 

 is mounted with difficulty. 



Explanation of Plate X. 



Fig. 1. — A short filament consisting of sc'vcn cells. The filaments usually contain 

 twenty or more cells. In filaments showing the spores, the width is quite 

 constant, but in vegetative cells the width varies considerably, many of 

 them being much wider. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Fig. 2 shows the accidental separation of two adjacent cells and the division 

 of the coinniissuro. 



Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic representation of the position of the commissure 

 near one side of the cell. The valves are frequently in close contact in the 

 middle, making the foramen bipartite. 



Fig. 4. — Represents the usual position of the commissure, although the dis- 

 tance from the edge of the valve is somewhat variable. Sometimes the com- 

 missure is in the middle of the side, but more frequently nearer one end. 



Fig. 5 is a valve view of the secondary valve as seen in the cell. 



Fig. 6 shows a form rarely found of a free spore much more developed than 

 the others and having the surface of the primary valve partly covered with 

 spines, somewhat as in C. wujhamii Br. Specimens of the latter in my 

 collection, however, show spores which are smaller, more circular, and with 

 the surface more evenly covered with spines. 



Fig. 7 represents two adjacent cells, as frequently seen, containing .spores 

 with their secondary valves opposed. 



The figures represent a magnification of 1,200 diameters. ^ 



^ I am indebted to Mr. F. J. Keeley for sketches from which some of the draw- 

 ings are made. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS FROM EASTERN CANADA. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 



The following species of shells were taken by Mr. Bayard Long- 

 while collecting plants in the Magdalen Islands and Prince Edward 

 Island in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The snail fauna seems to be 

 the usual northern type with the addition of the European Helix 

 hortensis Miill., Hygromia hispida L., and a new Succinea related to 

 western American forms. 

 Succinea bayardi n. sp. Figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell rather small, oval, globose, thin, polished, apex red, obtuse, 

 body whorl translucent amber colored, with a few growth striae, 

 whorls about 2\, convex, rapidly increasing, suture impressed. 

 Aperture more than half the altitude, very broadly oval, parietal 



callous, thin, outer and basal lips thin and evenly arched, columella 

 very narrow below, expanded above into a translucent white fold. 



Alt. 5.7, diam. 4.3, aperture alt. 3.8, diam. 2.8 mm. 



Locality. — Indian River, Kensington, Prince Edward Island. Col- 

 lected on August 29, 1912. The types are No. 106,651 in the col- 

 lection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



This shell is very closely related to Succinea oregonensis Lea, but 

 has a lower and more obtuse spire and is a smaller species. It 

 differs from Succinea chrysis West by lacking the opaque streaks, is 

 not green or reddish, and is smaller. I take pleasure in naming this 

 shell after Mr. Bayard Long, the botanist, who collected it. 



Helix hortensis Miill. 



Nineteen specimens were collected at Basin Island near Coffin Id., 

 Magdalen Islands, of which ten were the form 12345, two (12)345, 

 one (123)(45), two (123)45, one 1(2345), one (12345), one 10305, 

 and one 00000; at Grindstone, Grindstone Island, M. I., nine speci- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



mens were taken representing the following forms, four 12345, two 

 1(23)45, two (12)345, (123)45; four specimens from Alright Island, 

 M. I., all are the form 12345. This species was collected at three 

 locations on Prince Edward Island as follows, one form 12345 from 

 Douglas, four 00000 from Souris and five 00000 from Bloomfield. 

 Hygromia hispida L. 



Eight specimens were collected at Charlottetown, Prince Edward 

 Island. 



Pupilla muscorum L. 



One specimen taken at Basin Island near Coffin Island, M, I. 

 Bifldaria pentodon Say. 



Collected in alder thickets at Grindstone, M. I., and Tignish, 

 Prince Edward Island. 

 Vertigo ovata Say. 



Taken along a rill at Summerside and on knolls in alder thickets 

 at Tignish, Prince Edward Island. 



Vertigo ventricosa Morse. 



Collected in woods on Basin Island off Coffin Island, M. I.; and 

 in alder thickets at Tignish, Prince Edward Island. 



Vertigo gouldi Binn. 



Taken in the woods at Grindstone, Grindstone Id., M. I., and at 

 Mt. Stewart, Prince Edward Island. 

 Columella edentula Drap. 



Five specimens taken on Basin Id., M. I. 

 Acanthinula harpa Say. 



One specimen found near Campbell's Pond, Darnley, Prince 

 Edward Island. 

 Vallonia pulchella Mull. 



One specimen taken in coniferous woods at Charlottetown, Prince 

 Edward Island. 

 Ccchlicopa lubrica Miill. 



Plentiful in the woods on Basin Id., M. I., one specimen being very 

 tall; also found in alder thickets at Grindstone, M. I., and at Tignish, 

 Prince Edward Island. 



Vitrina limpida Gld. 



In a low wet calcareous woods on Basin Id., M. I. 

 Vitrea hammonis Strom. 



Collected in a meadow and in alder thickets on Grosse Isle, 

 M. I.; in the woods on Basin Id.; in the thickets and woods at 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



Grindstone, M. I.; and in the woods and thickets at the fol- 

 lowing places on Prince Edward Island: Bloomfield, near Camp- 

 bell's Pond at Darnley, along the Indian River at Kensington, Mt. 

 Stewart, Tignish, and around Lake Verde. One specimen from a 

 wet birch woods at Lake Verde is so deficient in lime that the shell 

 collapsed on drying. 

 Vitrea binneyana Morse. 



Several specimens were taken in a rich wet thicket along a brook 

 at Grindstone, Grindstone Id., M. I. 



Striatura milium Morse. 



Collected at Bloomfield, near Campbell's Pond at Darnley, and 

 around Lake Verde, Prince Edward Island. 

 Striatura exiguum Stimp. 



Collected on Basin Id., in the woods and thickets at Grindstone, 

 M. I., and at Bloomfield and near Campbell's Pond at Darnley, 

 Prince Edward Island. 

 Euconulus fulvus Mull. 



Taken on Basin Id. and at Grindstone, M. I. 



Zonitoides arborea Say. 



Collected on Grosse Isle, Basin Id., at Grindstone, M. I., and on 

 Prince Edward Island at Tignish, near Campbell's Pond at Darnley, 

 and in Fullerton's Marsh at Bunbtiry. 

 Agriolimax agrestis L- 



Collected at Bloomfield, on Brackley Point Road near Charlotte- 

 town, Charlottetown, and near Campbell's Pond at Darnley, Prince 

 Edward Island. 



Arion circumscriptus Johns. 



Taken at Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. 

 Pyramidula cronkhitei antbonyi Pils. 



Collected on Grosse Isle; Basin Id.; East Cape, Coffin Id.; at 

 Grindstone, Grindestone Id., M. I.; at Bloomfield, near Camp- 

 bell's Pond at Darnley, along Indian River at Ken-ington, and 

 Tignish, Prince Edward Island. 



Pyramidula (Planogyra) asteriscus Morse. 



Several specimens taken in thickets at .Grindstone, !\I. I., and 

 one at Bloomfield, Prince Edward Island. 

 Helicodiscus parallelus Say. 



In the woods and thickets on Basin Id., at Grindstone, M. 1., and 

 at Bloomfield and around Lake Verde, Prince Edward Island. 




1914.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ., 225 



Punotum pygmaeum Drap. 



Collected in thickets at Grindstone, M. I., iJnd along Indian River, 

 at Kensington, Prince Edward Island. 

 Succinea ovalis Say. 



Was collected at Basin Island, M. I.; Etang du Nord on Grind- 

 stone Id., M. I.; between Brackley Point and Charlottetown, 

 also at Bloorafield on Prince Edward Island. 

 Succinea retusa Lea. 



Was taken in a larch swamp on Grind.stone Island, M. I.; and at 

 North Lake and Tignish on Prince Edward Island. 

 Succinea avara Say. 



One specimen found in a larch swamp on Grindstone Island, M. I. 



Succinea bayardi n. sp. 



On grass stems in a salt marsh just above the water along Indian 

 River, Kensington, Prince Edward Island. 



Planorbis trivolvis Say. 



East Point Ponds and ponds past of East Cape, Coffin Island; 

 Grand Tracadie and Dundee, Prince Edward Island. 



Planorbis antrosus Conr. 



Was taken at Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada. 



Planorbis exacutus Say. 



From a brook in a meadow, Grindstone Island, M. I. 



Planorbis deflectus Say. 



Was taken at East Point Ponds and ponds east of East Cape, 

 Coffin Id.; Etang du Nord and in two brooks on Grindstone Id., 

 M. I.; North Lake, Black Pond, Lower Sea Cow Pond, Tignish, 

 stream between Brackley Point and Charlottetown, and in a brook 

 at Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. 



Planorbis parvus Say. 



Was collected at Etang du Nord, Grindstone Id.; pools near the 

 Narrows, Alright Id., M. I.; Lake Verde and in a stream between 

 Brackley Point and Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. 



Lymnaea palustris Mull. 



Was collected in ponds east of East Cape, Coffin Id.; Etang du 

 Nord, Hospital Pond and nine other pools on Grindstone Island, 

 M. I.; North Lake, Grand Tracadie, Bloomfield, FuUerton's Marsh 

 at Bunbury, Dundee, Lower Sea Cow Pond at Tignish, in a .stream 

 between Brackley Point and Charlottetown, Hillsborough River at 




226 f PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mar., 



St. Andrews, and below the mill pond at Southport, Prince Edward 

 Island. 



Lymnaea humilis modicella Say. 



Was taken at Etang du Nord, Grindstone Island, M. I. 



Physa gyrina Say. 



East Point Ponds and ponds east of East Cape, Coffin Island; 

 Etang du Nord and several small pools on Grindstone Island, M. I.; 

 Black Pond, Tignish, East Lake at Bothwell, Dundee, stream between 

 Brackley Point and Charlottetown, in a brook at Charlottetown, 

 below the mill pond at Southport, Prince Edward Island ; Moncton, 

 New Brunswick. 

 Carychium exiguum Say. 



In a swampy alder thicket at Grindstone and in a larch swamp 

 on Grindstone Island, M. I.; on knolls in an alder thicket at Tig- 

 nish, Prince Edward Island. 

 Pisidium abditum Hald. 



Was collected on Grosse Isle; in ponds east of East Cape, Coffin 

 Id.; Etang du Nord, Grindstone, Grindstone Id., M. I.; and at 

 Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. 



Pisidium variabile Prime. 



Was found in pools near The Narrows, Alright Id., M. I., and 

 in a pond at Tignish, Prince Edward Island. 



Anodonta cataraota Say. 



Was collected in the stream above Adams' Pond at Darnley, 

 Prince Edward Island. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19l4. 



PLATE 



SPAETH: THE GENUS CYCLOPS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE 11. 



l;. A. .•<. (If^l. 



SPAETH: THE GENUS CYCLOPS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE III. 



H. A. S. del 



SPAETH: THE GENUS CYCLOPS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE IV. 



H. A. S. del. 



SPAETH: THE GENUS CYCLOPS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. HHILA. 1914. 



platf: V. 





f 



\^ 



J 



6 



POULTON: MIMICRY IN BUTTERFLIES 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE VI. 



WARDLE: TSANTSA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE VII. 



WARDLE: TSANTSA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1«I 



PLATE VIII. 



EUPATAGUS MOOREANUS pilsbry 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19l4. 



PLATE IX. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: MOLLUSKS OF ANTIGUA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE X. 



CH^STOCEROS ELMOREI BOYER. 





1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



April 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of contributions 

 to the Proceedings under the following titles: 



"Two new Sarcosporidia, " by Howard Crawley (March 18, 1914), 



"A new diatom," by Charles S. Boyer, A.M. (March 21). 



"Land and fresh-water shells from eastern Canada," by E. G. 

 Vanatta (March 21). 



"Montana shells," by E. G. Yanatta (March 25). 



"The vascular system of the Florida alligator," by Albert M. 

 Reese (March 27). 



"The method of progression in Truncatella, " by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 and Amos P. Brown (April 11). 



"List of land and fresh-water mollusks of Antigua," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry and Amos P. Brown. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 

 Charles Sumner Williamson, March 23, 1914. 

 , George E. Kirkpatrick, March 26, 1914. 

 Curwen Stoddart, Jr., April 1, 1914. 

 Ernest Comly Dercum, April 10, 1914. 



The Council reported that Messrs. John Cadwalader, Charles B. 

 Penrose, Witmer Stone, and J. Percy Moore had been appointed 

 to constitute the Standing Committee on By-Laws. 



( )n the unanimous nomination of the Committee on the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Award, the gold Hayden Memorial Medal 

 was conferred on Henry Fairfield Osborn, Sc.D., LL.D., in recog- 

 nition of his distinguished work in vertebrate palaeontology. 



Henry Fairfield Osborx was born at Fairfield, Conn., August 8, 1857. 

 He was educated at Princeton College (1877, 1880), Cambridge University 

 under Balfour (1879), and the Royal College of Science under Huxley (1879-80). 

 He has received the following degrees: Princeton A.B. 1877, Sc.D. 1880; 

 Hon. LL.D. Trinity College 1901, Princeton 1902, Columbia 1907; Hon. D.Sc. 

 Cambridge 1904; Hon. Ph.D. Christiania 1911, Upsala 1913. 



Dr. Osborn began his pateontological explorations in Wyoming in 1877, and 

 has continued them to the present time in various parts of the United States, 

 in Europe and Egypt. From 1877 to 1890 he was connected with the Princeton 

 l^niversity expeditions and the Museum of Geology, and between 1891 and 1914 

 he has directed the American Museum explorations in vertebrate palseontology. 



His own researches and those of his students fill five volumes of papers from 

 the American Museum Memoir and Bulletin. His publications and papers in 



16 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



vertebrate palaeontology embrace 197 titles, including Emluiion of Mammalian 

 Molar Teeth, published in 1907, and The Age of Mammals, published in 1910, 

 beside the American Museum volumes above referred to. They cover contribu- 

 tions to the history of the extinct fishes, reptiles, and mammals. Dr. Osborn 

 succeeded Edward D. Cope as Vertebrate Palaeontologist of the Geological 

 Survey of Canada between the years 1900-1904. In 1900 he was appointed 

 successor to Othniel C. Marsh as Vertebrate Palaeontologist of the United States 

 Geological Survey, and is still engaged on the series of palaeontological mono- 

 graphs which were left unfinished by Marsh, especially those on the titanotheres 

 and the Sauropoda. 



Among the most important of his investigations are the following: the evolu- 

 tion of the ungulate foot, the evolution of the types of molar teeth of the mam- 

 mals, the evolution of the perissodactyl ungulates, especially the rhinoceroses, 

 horses, and titanotheres, the correlation of the Tertiary, geological horizons of 

 Europe and North America, the principles of the evolution of the skull in mam- 

 mals, and the laws of evolution as observed in palaeontology. 



Dr. Osborn's administration of the Department of Vertebrate Palaeontology 

 in the American Museum of Natural History has been instrumental in assembling 

 the most extensive collection of vertebrate fossils in existence, including the 

 complete vertebrate fauna of more than half of the Tertiary horizons of the West 

 and the complete phyletic evolution of many of the most important types of 

 mammals. This administration has been notable also in establishing the 

 American Museum as a training school in vertebrate palaeontology from which 

 have issued many of the leading vertebrate palaeontologists of the younger 

 generation in this country and abroad. There have been corresponding advances 

 in palaeontological technique and the educational methods of palaeontology, so 

 that the fossil collections in the American Museum have become a standard for 

 the same work in other institutions. 



In addition to these palaeontological and geological activities Dr. Osborn has 

 held many educational and administrative positions, including the professorship 

 of comparative anatomy at Princeton (1883-1900) and the professorship of 

 zoology at Columbia University (1891-1914). Since 1890 he has been instru- 

 mental in the development of the American Museum of Natural History and 

 the founding and development of the New York Zoological Park. His contribu- 

 tions on the administration of the Museum and the Zoological Park number 

 twenty-six titles. 



His total contributions to science cover a broad field, embracing in the 390 

 titles beside vertebrate palaeontology researches and addresses on zoology, 

 embryology, neurology, psychology, odontology, zoogeography, geology, biology, 

 antropology, biography, and education. 



The Chair announced the following elections: 

 Members: 



William J. Davis. 



Arthur W. Sheaffer. 



John S. Sharp. 



Correspondents: 



Shibasaburo Kitasato, M.D., of Tokyo, Japan. 



Charles T. Ramsden, of Guantanamo, Cuba. 



Marie Curie, of Paris. 



N. Charles Rothschild, of London. 



Gerritt S. Miller, of Washington, D. C. 



Edmund Heller, of Washington, D. C. r 



Charles W. Richmond, of Washington, D. C. 



Frank M. Chapman, of New York. 



Edgar A. Mearns, of Washington, D. C. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1914.]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



FISHES FROM THE RUPUNUNI RIVER, BRITISH GUIANA. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In the fall of 1912 the Academy received a collection of fresh- 

 water fishes from the Rupunmii River, in the highlands of British 

 Guiana. The specimens were purchased from Mr. J. Ogilvie, 

 who collected them during the same, year and in 1911. Mr. Ogilvie 

 informs me, in lieu of the name of any settlement or towm, they were 

 approximately secured in North Latitude 2° to 3°, and West Longi- 

 tude 50° 20'. A number are apparently new or undescribed, while 

 others are not only new records for the Rupununi, but also for Guiana 

 as well. The figures are all drawn to scale, each number over the 

 accompanying line signifying millimeters. 



SELACHII. 

 DASYATID^. 

 Potamotrygon hystrix (Miiller and Troschel). 



One young fcetal example. Color pale uniform brown. Six pa- 

 pillae on floor of mouth. Body mostly smooth, without prickles 

 or warts. Length 145 mm., disk width 60 mm. 



TELEOSTOMI. 

 OSTEOGLOSSID^. 

 Osteoglossum bicirrhosum Agassiz. Fig. l (young). 



One 273 mm. Also three young with yolk-sacs still adherent. 

 According to Mr. Ogilvie, this fish carries its young in its mouth 

 until they wholly absorb the yolk and they are able to fend for 

 themselves. 



CHARACID^. 



CUR1MAT1N.E. 

 Curimatus oyprinoides (Linnseus). 



One example, which agrees with my Ambyiacu River examples 

 in the absence of gill-rakers, and with my figure.^ 



Dr. Eigenmann rightly corrects my use of Curimata- to the present 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., igOfj, p. 301, fig. 6. 

 2 A7ner. Noi., XLI, 1907, p. 768. 




230 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



form, as I overlooked Oken, though he wrongly identifies^ the exam- 

 ples I recorded as Psectrogaster ciUatus within the genus Curimatus. 

 They are undoubtedly members of the genus Psectrogaster, as their 

 spinescent scales show, and cannot be identified with the diagnosis 

 he gives for the species Curimatus ciliatus, and this after he had 

 examined the type of Anodus ciliatus Miiller and Troschel in Berlin. 

 If this Species is found identical with Curimatus cyprinoides (Lin- 

 naeus), this latter name will, of course, supersede. Contrary to my 

 arrangement in 1906, I now believe my Ambyiacu and Upper Amazon 

 specimens to belong to Psectrogaster amazonicus Eigenmann and 

 Eigenmann. 



Subgenus CYPHOCHARAX Fowler. 



Back not elevated, but upper profile nearly straight from above 

 eye to near dorsal. Scales large, 36 or less in lateral line, and in 

 nearly even longitudinal series. 



Fig. 1. — -Osteoglossum bicirrhosuin Agassiz. (Young.) 



This diagnosis is recast, as the species I identified with the desig- 

 nated type is certainly different. 



Curimatus spilurus Gunther. 



One example 93 mm. 



CHILODIN^. 



Chilodus labyrinthicus rupununi subsp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3f ; depth 31; D. iv, 9, i; A. iv, 7, i; P, i, 14; V, i, 8; scales 

 27 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 

 4 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 3 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 

 about 8 predorsal scales; head width 1| its length; head depth at 

 occiput 1^; snout 3; eye 3|; maxillary 3^; interorbital 2|; first 



' Mem. Carnegie Mus., V, 1912, p. 269. 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



231 



branched dorsal ray trifle longer than head; first branched anal 

 ray If hi head; pectoral 1|; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, robust, moderately compressed, and deepest at 

 dorsal origin. Predorsal with slight or obsolete keel just before 

 dorsal origin, other edges of body all convex, and that of preventral 

 broad and flattened, or only very obsolete keel or ridge along outer 

 boundaries. Lower profile evenly convex. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, small, about long as deep. 



Head robust, somewhat pyramidal, upper surface slightly de- 

 pressed, and lower broadly convex, convex sides not especially 

 converging below. Upper profile slightly convex, less inclined than 



J'ifi 



-Chilodus labyrinthicus rupununi Fowler. (Type.) 



lower. Snout broadly triangular as seen from above, surface convex, 

 and length about half its width. Eye large, circular, high, and a 

 little anterior in head. Adipose-eyelid broad, exposes most of very 

 broad pupil. Mouth small, terminally inferior, and seen below 

 transversely crescentic. Upper jaw with single series of small weak 

 filament-like teeth, none in lower jaw. Maxillary small, upper edge 

 slips below preorbital, and slightly expanded distal end reaches 

 opposite posterior nostril. Mandible small, shallow, each ramus 

 well elevated inside mouth. Tongue well back, large, depressed, 

 free. Nostrils well developed, superiorly lateral, together, in last 

 third of snout length, anterior with well-developed cutaneous rim 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



and posterior exposed as crescent. Interorbital broad, flattened. 

 Infraorbital large, covers most of cheek, surface with radiating 

 striae. Opercle striate, and subopercle projects moderately pos- 

 teriorly, both Avith striate surfaces. Occipital fontanel well devel- 

 oped, extends forward nearly to front of eyes. 



Gill-opening extends forward for last third in head. Gill-rakers 

 about 10 + 20 weak flexible filaments, about | length of gill-filaments, 

 and outer series separated by high cutaneous or cartilaginous parti- 

 tion. Gill-filaments about 2 in eye. Isthmus broad. Branchioste- 

 gals with inner shortest and outer longest. 



Scales large, firm, well exposed, in regular horizontal series, entire, 

 and more or less uniform except smaller ones on caudal base. Surface 

 of exposure of each scale pitted or with variously shaped shallow 

 cavities, not interfering with general smoothness to touch. Long 

 pointed free scaly fiap in axil of ventral. Lateral line complete, 

 midway along side, of simple tubes and each opening by pore at 

 middle of scale exposure. 



Dorsal origin midway between that of adipose fin and snout tip, 

 first branched ray longest with fourth simple but slightly shorter, 

 and fin depressed slightly more than half way to caudal base. Adi- 

 pose fin inserted about midway between depressed dorsal tip ^nd 

 caudal base, fin small. Anal inserted slightly before adipose fin, 

 first branched ray longest, loAver edge of fin slightly emarginated, 

 and when depressed reaches caudal base. Caudal well forked, lobes 

 broad, apparently (damaged) equal. Pectoral low, pointed, reaches 

 about fxr to ventral, and latter inserted behind second branched 

 dorsal ray base, reaches § to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely pale brownish, ground color mostly 

 uniform. Above lateral line four lengthwise deeper brownish bands, 

 upper three, together with additional median dorsal band, much 

 broader than lower ones, and each extending over median portions 

 of scales. L. 1. in a broad underlaid pale slaty to dusky band, not 

 quite equal to pupil diameter in width, and extending posteriorly 

 out on median rays of caudal to their tips. Each scale in dark 

 longitudinal bands, besides those in 1. 1. and for most of extent of 

 two lengthwise series of scales below 1. 1., with deep dusky-brown 

 spot formed at its base. Dark median lateral band of trunk continued 

 on head across opercle and in front to snout tip. Head brown above, 

 pale like belly below. Eye slaty. Above pectoral in course of dark 

 lateral band two ill-defined dusky spots, subequal, and each about 

 long as pu]Ml. Fins all pale or whitish in general tint, though dorsal 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



with broad vertical dusky band, slightly narrowing below, and upper 

 posterior edge of fin slightly dusky. Caudal, except as stated above, 

 pale and uniform. Adipose fin pale brownish. Lower fins all pale 

 or whitish. 



Length 136 inin. (caudal tips damaged). 



Type, No. 39,306, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Only the type known. This differs from Chilodus labyrinthicus 

 (Kner)^ in coloration, that species having but one blackish spot 

 above the depressed pectoral fin. 



(Named for the Rupununi River.) 



HEMIODOXTIX.^. 

 Hemiodus semitaeniatus Kner. 



One example 83 mm. long (caudal tips damaged), agrees with 

 Kner's account. The depth (4^) is probably due to age, as all the 

 other characters are in accord. The scales (according to the pockets) 

 are 55 in I. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter, besides 9 above 

 I. l. Eigenmann identifies examples from Konawaruk and Gluck 

 Island with this species,^ though they are.likely wrongly so called, 

 as they show the depth 4 to 4^ and the scales 44 or 45 in 1. I., with 

 only 7 above. 

 Hemiodus quadrimaculatus Pellegrin. 



Two examples, one 115 mm. and the other 32 mm. 



Anisitsia notata (Schomburgk). 



One 147 mm. long and another 157 mm. 



PYRRHULININiE. 



Pyrrhulina filamentosa Valenciennes. 



One 70 mm. Eigenmann mentions "adipose brick-red," certainly 

 an error if referring to an adipose fin.^ 



NANNOSTOMIN.E. 

 Charaoidium blennioides Eigenmann. 



One example 47 mm. (caudal damaged). 

 Gharacidium fasciadorsale sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3|; depth 5i; D. iii, 8; A. iii, 7; P. in, 8; V. i, 8; scales 

 34 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 5 scales above 



* Microdus labyrinthicus Kner, Denk. Ak. Wiss. Wien, XVII, 1859, p. 149, 

 PI. 3, fig. 5. Rio Branco and Barra do Rio Negro. 

 5 Mem. Carnegie Mus., V, 1912, p. 276, PL 36, fig. 3. 

 «L.c., p. 279. 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 3 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 9 scales before dorsal; head width 2| in its length; head 

 depth at occiput U; snout 4; eye 3f ; maxillary 4|; interorbital 

 41; length of dorsal 1; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; upper 

 caudal lobe lyV; pectoral 1; ventral 1|. 



Body elongate, slender, moderately compressed, greatest depth 

 at dorsal origin, profiles similar and edges rounded. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, least depth about If its length. 



Head attenuated, compressed, flattened sides but scarcely con- 

 verging below, upper profile convex and lower concave. Snout 

 conic, protruding slightly, compressed, long as broad. Eye rounded, 

 little longer than deep, high and slightly anterior. Mouth small, 

 transverse. Teeth small, invested with membrane, conic, simple, 

 pointed. Maxillary small, free, well inclined, reaches midway in 



Fig. 3. — Characidium fasciadorsale Fowler. (Type.) 



space between front and hind nostrils. Tongue depressed, free in 

 front. Mandible shallow in front, and rami well elevated inside 

 mouth. Nostrils well separated, anterior about midway in snout 

 length, and posterior close before front eye edge, both simple pores, 

 Preorbital triangular, length about f of eye. Interorbital broadly 

 convex. Infraorbitals narrow. Opercle moderate, surface smooth, 

 Subopercle extended posteriorly and with broad cutaneous flap. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind edge of pupil. 

 Gill-rakers about 4 + 10? short weak points, about I length of 

 filaments and latter about 2h in eye. Isthmus moderately broad, 

 Branchiostegals moderate. 



Scales mostly uniform in size, in even longitudinal series parallel 

 with 1. 1., well exposed, and each showing about six horizontal striae 

 on exposures. Ventral axilla with rather short pointed free scaly 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



flap. L. 1. complete, midway along side, and of simple tubes which 

 at first extend half way over exposure of scale and posteriorly about 

 three-quarters. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and end of adipose 

 fin, first branched ray highest, extends almost as far posteriorly 

 as tip of last, and depressed fin reaches but slightly less than half 

 way to caudal base. Adipose fin small, inserted about midway 

 between end of depressed dorsal and caudal base. Anal inserted 

 close behind depressed dorsal tip, and fin extends about two-thirds 

 to caudal base. Caudal well forked, sharply pointed lobes about 

 equal. Pectoral pointed, with median rays longest, and fin reaches 

 almost to ventral origin. Ventral inserted about opposite middle 

 of dorsal base, fin reaches four-fifths to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol with very pale brown ground color, scarcely 

 paler below. A narrow bro^vnish lateral band, about equal to 

 diameter of pupil in width on head, though on trunk reduced to 

 narrow line, extends from snout tip to caudal base where it ends in 

 small detached dusky spot. Head pale brownish above, whitish or 

 paler beneath. Lips and front half of maxillary dusky, though 

 posterior half of maxillary contrasted pale or whitish like lower 

 surface of head. Eye slaty. Trunk with ten transverse deep 

 brownish bands, a little broader than interspaces, and within area 

 of each edge of each scale deeper brown. Dorsal and caudal dull 

 grayish, with at least three transverse or horizontal dusky streaks 

 across former. Pectoral, ventral and anal pale and uniform. No 

 dark median dorsal streak. 



Length 47 mm. 



Type, No. 39,307, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Also Nos. 39,308 and 39,309, same data, paratypes. These show: 

 Head 3| and 3|; depth 5 and 5^; D. iii, 9 and in, 7; scales 32 ? 

 (injured) in 1. 1. to caudal base and about 3 more on latter; 5 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 9 predorsal scales; 

 snout 4| and 4; eye 3j and 3|; maxillary 4 and 4|; interorbital 

 4j and 4; length 35 and 42 mm., respectively. The smaller example 

 differs from the others in having the pectoral extending slightly 

 beyond the ventral origin and the latter fin reaching the anal origin. 



This species is related to Characidium etheostoma Cope^ in colora- 

 tion, but is much more slender, thus approaching Characidium 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 32.3, fig. 17. Type. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



■catenatum Eigenmann.^ From the latter it differ,s chieflj^ in the 

 dark horizontal cross-bands on the dorsal fin, that species being 

 iigured and described as having a uniform dorsal. 



{Fascia, streak; dorsalis, of the back; with reference to the streaked 

 •dorsal fin.) 



ANOSTOMIN^. 



Leporellus vittatus (Valenciennes). 



Two examples, one 195 mm. and the other 126 mm. Compared 

 with the example from the Peruvian Amazon,^ I find they differ 

 •only according to age. I cannot find that the species has been 

 recorded from Guiana previously. The following notes may be of 

 value: Head 3|; depth 4|; D. iii, 9, i or iii, 10, i; A. in, 8, i; 

 scales 37 to 39 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 4 or 5 more on latter; 6 

 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 11 predorsal 

 scales; snout 2| in head; eye 5 to 6; maxillary 3 to 3|. In color 

 these examples show a dark or dusky spot on each scale of sides and 

 back. Dark spots on head large and irregular on front and snout, 

 small and less numerous on cheek and opercle. Dorsal with large 

 broad distal blackish blotch, and another blackish streak transversely 

 subbasally. Broad dark lateral band includes 1. 1. and extends out 

 on median caudal rays to their tips. Each caudal lobe with two 

 blackish transverse horizontal bars. Adipose fin pale, lower edge 

 blackish. Other fins pale, ventrals and anal with median dusky 

 shade. 



Anostomus anostomus (Linnseus). 



Three examples, 81 to 85 mm. (caudals damaged). 



Leporinus nigrotaeniatus (Schomburgk). 



Five examples, 142 to 190 mm. 

 Leporinus friderici (Bloch). 



One example 210 mm. in length, and a smaller one 120 mm. long.^" 

 Leporinus alternus EiRenmann. 



Two examples, 70 to 73 mm. in length. The only point at variance 

 in the original account is the statement ''four graduated, oliliquely- 

 pointed teeth in each jaw," my examples, however, showing eight 

 teeth in each jaw. 



8 Mem. Carnegie Mus., V, 1912, p. 293, Pis. 38, figs. 5-6. Warraputa, Rock- 

 stone and Crab Falls. 



9 Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 327. 



'"The Parahyba example which I identified with Sahnn faKriatiis Bloch, in 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 328, I feel certain is identical with Lepo- 

 ■rinus conirostris Steinda(!hner, Silz. Ak. Wiss. Wien, LXXI, I, 1875, p. 233, PI. 4. 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



237 



Leporinus paralternus sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3|: depth 4|; D. in, 10, i; A, in, 8; P. i, 16; V. i, 8; scales 

 36 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 more on latter ; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. to anal 

 origin; 13 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; head depth 

 at occiput If; snout 2|; eye 4^; maxillary 4; interorbital 3; first 

 branched dorsal ray U; first branched anal ray If; upper caudal 

 lobe 1; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|. 



Body moderately long and slender, compressed, deepest at dorsal 

 origin, and edges all convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle well 

 compressed, about long as deep. 



Head rather conic, compressed, sides flattened slightly though 

 about evenly curving over above and below. Snout elongate, conic, 



Fig. 4. — Leporinus paralternus Fowler. (Type.) 



long as broad. Eye rounded, a little high, centre about midway 

 in head. Adipose-eyelid very slight. Mouth small, nearly terminal, 

 or but slightly. inferior, so that upper jaw only protrudes very little. 

 Maxillary moderately inclined, small, extends a little beyond anterior 

 nostril, though not to posterior. Lips thick, fleshy, entire. Eight 

 teeth in each jaw% graduated forward to median which are longest, 

 and all ending in a point on cutting-edge. Inner buccal membrane 

 above quite broad. Tongue little distinct. Mandible shallow in 

 front, short rami well elevated in mouth. Anterior nostril lateral, 

 in small cutaneous tube reaching back nearly to' posterior, which 

 latter simple and about last | in snout length, also lateral. Inter- 

 orbital evenlv convex. Suborbitals of moderate width. Preopercle 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



edge inclined forward. Opercle moderately large, with a few radi- 

 ating striae on its lower edge. 



Gill-openings lateral, extend forward about opposite hind pre- 

 opercle edge. Gill-rakers about 11+9 points, about 3 in gill- 

 filaments, and latter 1| in eye. Isthmus Inroad. Branchiostegals 

 large, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., 

 more or less uniform in size, though a little smaller on breast and 

 caudal base* Scales ensheath bases of dorsal and anal, though not 

 extending on the fins. Ventral with free pointed axillary scale 

 trifle less than half length of fin. Lateral line complete, midway 

 along side, extends on caudal base, and formed of simple tubes 

 extending well over scales. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer hind edge of adipose fin than snout 

 tip, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends 5 to caudal 

 base. Anal inserted well behind depressed dorsal, first branched 

 ray longest and reaches caudal base. Caudal well forked, pointed 

 lobes equal. Adipose fin about | of eye, inserted about midway 

 between caudal base and hind edge of depressed dorsal fin. Pectoral 

 small, low, extends i to ventral origin. Ventral inserted behind 

 second branched dorsal ray base, fin extending trifle more than half 

 way to anal origin. Vent at last third in space between depressed 

 ventral tips and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol largely pale uniform brownish above, below, or 

 on belly and abdomen, paler and whitish. Head brownish above, 

 sides and below paler. Lips pale. Iris slaty. Trunk with nine 

 dusky to blackish transverse cross bands, of which first or that just 

 after occiput, fourth or that below dorsal, seventh or that just before 

 adipose fin, and last at caudal base, broader or much more expanded 

 than others. Second intermediate, also fifth intermediate transverse 

 streaks entirely dorsal and only extend down each side half Avay to 

 lateral line. Fins all pale or uniform, dorsal and caudal slightly 

 darker, and adipose fin with a little grayish. 



Length 120 mm. 



Type, No. 39,320, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. ' 



Nos. 39,321 to 39,323, paratypes, same data. Head 3| to 3f ; 

 depth 4 to 4j; D. in, 10, i; A. in, 8, i; scales 36 or 37 in 1. 1, to 

 caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales 

 below 1. 1.; 13 predorsal scales; snout 2| to 2h in head; eye 4 to 4|; 

 maxillary 4\ to 4f; interorbital 3; length 75 to 82 mm. These 




11)14. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



examples all agree with the type in the constancy of their color 

 patterns. 



The present species is distinguished from its ally, the preceding, 

 by the presence of an extra black streak before the dorsal. 



(Para, near; aUernus, alternate, the related species.) 



MYOCHARAX subgen. nov. 

 Type Leporinus desmotes sp. nov. 



Differs from the subgenus Anostomus in the dentition, that of the 

 mandible being composed of two^ long slender curved rodent-like 

 incisors, and also two somewhat similar though much shorter ones 

 externally and well back. Upper jaw with six tricuspid incisor-like 

 teeth. Anterior nostrils in rather long cutaneous tubes. 



One species, described below. 



{Mu?^ mouse; x"-pf^^, Charax; with reference to the rodent-like 

 teeth.) 



Leporinus desmotes sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 4; depth 4f ; D. iii, 10, i; A. iii, 8, i; P. i, 16; V. i, 9; 

 scales 35 in lateral line to caudal base and 6 more on latter; 6 scales 

 .above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 5 scales below 1. 1. 

 to anal origin; 13 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; 

 head depth at occiput IJ; snout 2|; eye 4; maxillary 4; inter- 

 orbital 2\; first branched dorsal ray 1; first branched anal ray 1|; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; upper caudal lobe 1|?; pectoral 

 If; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, compressed, tapers somewhat posteriorly, deepest 

 at dorsal origin, anterior upper profile rather evenly convex, and 

 edges all convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, about 

 long as deep. 



Head rather small, compressed, somewhat conic, surfaces rather 

 conic, and profiles similarly straight and inclined. Snout conic, 

 broad, length | its width, and as seen from above rather acuminate. 

 Eye rounded, lateral, and centre falls trifle behind middle in head 

 length. Adipose-eyelid narrow, best developed anteriorly. Mouth 

 small, inferiorly terminal. Maxillary with thick integument, well 

 inclined and reaches trifle over half way to eye or about opposite 

 front edge of posterior nostril. Lips thick and fleshy. Upper lip 

 broader, with two series of fleshy lamellae, of which outer show 

 much deeper clefts, are longer, though more vaguely defined exter- 

 nally. Lower lip peculiar, with deep-cleft narrow fleshy lobe each 

 .side leaving broad symphyseal surface, this crowTied with seven or 




240 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



more series of lamellae, each deeply cleft and therefore distinct, 

 besides each lamella being broken up transversely into as many small 

 apical papillae. Teeth of upper jaw quite different from those in 

 lower, 6 in number, though each rather indistinctly tricuspid median 

 cusp much better defined, and outer tooth of each side a little smaller 

 than subequal inner ones. Lower teeth developed as two long 

 slender upward-curved pointed teeth, and basally though well back 

 on each side another similar, much shorted and inconspicuous tooth, 

 apparently less firm in its socket. INIouth with very broad upper 

 buccal membrane, its surface finely papillose. Tongue not deter- 

 mined. Mandible short, rami not especially high. Anterior nostril 

 lateral, in conspicuous and somewhat bell-shaped cutaneous tube 



Fig. 5. — Leporinus desmotes Fowler. (Type.) 



equal to half of eye-diameter in length, and protruded bej'ond edge 

 of upper lip. Posterior nostril lateral ol^lique slit, formed about 

 last f in snout length about opposite eye centre. Interorbital l)roadly 

 convex. Suborbitals moderate in width. Hind edge of preopercle 

 slopes forward. Opercle moderate, smooth. 



Gill-opening restricted, extends forward only ali(jut last sixth 

 in head. Gill-rakers 8+11 rather short l)road firm points, trifle 

 over ^ in gill-filaments and latter slightly exceeding half an eye- 

 diameter. Isthmus rather broad and convex. Branchiostegals 4, 

 rather broad, moderate, subequal. 



Scales large, well exposed, slightly smaller on breast and predorsal 

 'region, though much more so on caudal base, otherwise uniform. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



and disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1. Scaly sheaths 

 at dorsal and anal bases low, allowing movements of fins, though 

 not extending on their surfaces. Ventral with free pointed axillary 

 scaly flap, nearly 3 in length of fin. L. 1. complete, nearly straight, 

 and tubes simple, extending well over first half in scale exposures. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and hind basal edge of 

 adipose fin, first l)ranched ray longest or extends back well beyond 

 tips of last, and fin reaches but trifle less than half way to caudal 

 base. Adipose fin inserted little nearer depressed dorsal tip than 

 caudal base, and length about equals eye. Anal inserted trifle 

 before adipose fin, first branched ray longest, and fin reaches trifle 

 beyond caudal base. Caudal large, well forked, broad pointed lobes 

 about equal. Pectoral low, pointed, reaches about | to ventral. 

 Latter inserted behind first branched dorsal ray base, fin large, and 

 reaches If to anal origin. Vent nearly at first third in space lietween 

 depressed ventral and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol generally pale brownish or whitish, marked by 

 ten very conspicuous well-defined slaty-black transverse bars, 

 those on trunk meeting their opposite sides and sloping slightly 

 posteriorly. On head lower surface pale and dark bars reflected 

 slightly across. Lips pale or whitish. Iris slaty. First dark bar 

 includes upper edge of snout, extends down along maxillaries and 

 then across lower surface of mandible posterior to symphyseal 

 papillae, and its width much less than any of the other bars. Second 

 dark bar close behind, and of moderate width, bridges lores over 

 upper surface of snout. Third dark bar extends over interorbitals 

 and also reflected on infraorbital. Fourth dark bar extends from 

 occiput, includes opercles and pectoral root. Fifth dark bar slightly 

 forked above and below, midway in predorsal. Sixth dark bar 

 includes dorsal base anteriorly and ventrals. Seventh dark bar 

 postdorsal and postventral in position. Eighth dark bar wholly 

 before adipose fin, extends to front half of anal. Ninth dark bar 

 includes adipose fin and caudal peduncle. Tenth dark bar includes 

 caudal base. Except for such intrusion as noted, all fins of whitish 

 color generally. 



Length 170 mm. (caudal tips damaged). 



Type, No. 39,324, A. N. S. P. 'llupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Nos. 39,325 to 39,327, paratypes, same data. Head 3f to 3f; 

 depth 3f to 4; D. iii, 10, i; A. in, 8, i; scales 33 to 35 in 1. 1. to 

 caudal Imse and 3 or 4 more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



below 1. 1.; 12 or 13 predorsal scales; snout 2f to 2| in head; eye 

 3f to 4i; maxillary 4^ to 5; interorbital 2| to 2^; length 105 to 149 

 mm. Only comparatively slight individual variation is noticed in 

 these examples. One example also has an additional lesser external 

 mandibular tooth on the right side, only very inconspicuous. 



(j£-T/7.wrr;?j prisoner, with reference to the dark cross-bands sug- 

 gestive of convict garb.) 



Schizodon fasciatus Agassiz. 



One example 170 mm. 



TETRAGONOPTERIN^ . 

 Tetragonopterus argenteus Cuvier. 



One example 78 mm. 

 Tetragonopterus chalceus Agassiz. 



Two examples, one 80 mm. and the other 97 mm. 

 Astyanax rupununi sp. nov. Fig. 6. 



Head 4; depth 2|; D. iii, 8, i; A. in, 28, i; P. i, 12; V. i, 7; 

 scales 35 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 8 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 7 scales below 1. 1. 

 to anal origin; 13 predorsal scales; head width ly% in its length; 

 head depth 1; first branched dorsal ray 1; first branched anal ray 

 If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|; 

 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 

 21; interorbital 2|. 



Body elongately ovoid, well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, 

 and edges all rounded convexly except median predorsal ridge, which 

 slightly trenchant. Caudal peduncle compressed, length about 

 equals least depth. 



Head small, compressed, lower profile little more inclined than 

 upper, and flattened sides not converging above or below. Snout 

 convex, length about f its width. Eye rounded, placed about first 

 I in head. Mouth very slightly inclined, transverse, broad, terminal. 

 Maxillary inclined vertically, free, extends back to front eye edge 

 and greatest expansion 3j in eye. Lips firm, rather thin. Upper 

 jaw teeth biserial, outer series smaller and tricuspid, and inner 

 series of larger mostly quineuspid, in all cases median cusp much 

 largest. Mandibular teeth quineuspid, large, powerful and uniserial. 

 At least one of teeth extending from inner upper series on inner base 

 of maxillary, though tooth quite small and obsolete. Mandible 

 very slightly protrudes, strong, and rami scarcely elevated inside 

 mouth. Tongue depressed, rounded, and free in front, rather 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



243 



broad. Inner buccal folds broad. Nostrils together, anterior 

 simple pore with hind cutaneous rim exposing larger posterior aper- 

 ture in crescent, and anterior falls about last third in snout length. 

 Interorbital evenly convex. Infraorbital broad, covers cheek, with 

 few radiating striae, and its width f of eye-diameter. Hind pre- 

 opercle edge nearly vertical. Opercle narrow, with a few obsolete 

 striae, and its width trifle less than | its length. 



Gill-opening forward to front eye edge. Gill-rakers about 10 + 13, 

 slender, tapering, pointed, and slightly shorter than gill-filaments, 

 which latter about half of eye. Isthmus narrow, constricted, surface 

 rounded though with median groove in front. Branchiostegals 

 moderate, subequaL 



Fig. 6. — Astyanax rupununi Fowler. (Type. 



Scales disposed in even longitudinal series parallel with 1. 1., 

 mostly uniform in size except those variably smaller along predorsal, 

 breast, .preventral, postventral, caudal base and along anal base. 

 Ventral with free scaly pointed axillary flap about | length of fin. 

 L. 1. complete, decurved slightly below median axis, and extending 

 up a little low along side of caudal peduncle at first. Tubes simple, 

 and better exposed in posterior course of 1. 1. 



Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base, first 



branched ray longest, extends back well beyond tips of last, and 



depre.ssed fin reaches half way to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted 



little nearer depressed dorsal tip than caudal base, and its length 



17 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



about I of eye. Anal with long base, inserted below last branched 

 dorsal ray base, first branched ray longest equals half length of base, 

 and lower edge nearly straight. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes 

 about equal. Pectoral low, pointed, reaches slightly beyond ventral 

 origin, though not back till opposite dorsal origin. Ventral inserted 

 midway between pectoral and anal origins, reaches back f to anal. 

 Vent at tip of depressed ventral. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish on back and upper surface 

 of head. Sides of head and trunk paler than back, and becoming 

 still more so, or whitish, on ventral region. All scales of back and 

 sides with darker brownish edges, made up of dark dots. Sides of 

 head, opercle, postorbital and muzzle sprinkled with larger dusky 

 dots. Iris slaty. Slightly above level of eye centre, just above 

 1. 1., and about opposite middle in length of pectoral, a blackish 

 ellipsoid blotch, its length about equal to eye. From its upper front 

 end and its entire hind end a pale area extends transversely as two 

 ill-defined pale or whitish spots, posterior much greater in extent. 

 Extending back along vertebral axis a dusky line begins behind pale 

 area and continues back along caudal peduncle side, where it widens, 

 to expand still more at caudal base into large dusky or blackish 

 blotch, and also refiected out on median caudal rays to their tips. 

 Fins all whitish, dorsals and caudal tinged grayish. Distal edge of 

 anal its whole extent slightly tinged grayish. 



Length 64 mm. 



Type, No. 39,228, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 1912. J. Ogilvie. 



No. 39,329, paratype, same data. Head 3f; depth 2i}; D. iii, 

 9; A. IV, 28, i; scales 36 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 ? more on latter; 

 7 scales above 1. 1.; 7 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 8 scales 

 below 1. 1. to anal origin; 14 predorsal scales; snout 4 in head; eye 

 3; maxillary 2|; interorbital 2f; length 62 mm. 



This species appears to be related to Astyanax wappi (Valen- 

 ciennes), as described from the type by Eigemnann.^^ It differs 

 in the smaller head, deeper body, and larger eye. There are, how- 

 ever, no ''traces of longitudinal streaks between the rows of scales." 



(Nametl for the Rupununi River.) 

 Moenkhausia chrysargyrea leucopomis subsp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 3|; depth IfV; D. iii, 9; A. iv, 26, i; P. i, 13; V. i, 7; 

 scales 34 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 ? more on latter (squama- 



•' Mem. Carnegie Muh., V. 1912, p. 3"i5, PI. .")2, fig. 1. 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



245 



tion injured) ; 8 scales above 1.1.; 7 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin ; 

 8 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 9 scales before dorsal to posterior 

 end of occipital process; head width 2 in its length; head depth at 

 occiput 1; snout 3f; eye 3; maxillary 2|; interorbital 2f; first 

 branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral 

 1^; ventral 1^. 



Body deep, well compressed, rather ovoid, predorsal and post- 

 dorsal with slight median ridge, and other edges convex, except 

 slight ridge each side along abdomen before ventral, most distinct 



Fig. 7. — Moenkhausia chrysargyrea leucopomis Fowler. (Type.) 



just before latter. Greatest depth at dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, and its length about f its least depth. 



Head deep, well compressed, lower profile more inclined than 

 upper, which latter nearly straight from snout front to occiput. 

 Flattened head sides very slightly converging below. Snout convex 

 over surface and in profile, broadly convex as seen from above and 

 length about half its width. Eye rounded, placed about first | in 

 head. Adipose-eyelids slightly developed in front and behind. 

 Mouth broad, terminal, about level with upper rim of pupil. Lips 

 thick, fleshy, firm. Jaws about even when closed, mandible scarcely 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



projecting. Maxillary vertically inclined, extends back slightly 

 beyond front eye edge, and its greatest expansion a little less than 

 3 in eye. Teeth in upper jaw biserial, quincuspid, though those 

 in inner series larger and apparently continued on inner base of each 

 maxillary as a small single tooth. Mandible with uniserial quin- 

 cuspid teeth, median largest and lateral ones very small posteriorly. 

 Tongue broad, depressed, rounded and free in front. Inner buccal 

 folds broad. Mandible strong, convex over surface, and rami not 

 elevated inside mouth. Nostrils together, anterior simple pore 

 with cutaneous flap behind exposing posterior in crescent, and 

 frenum would fall about last fourth in snout length. Interorbital 

 evenly convex. Posterior infraorbital broad, covers all of cheek 

 except lower narrow strip, rather obscurely striate, and its greatest 

 width f of eye. Postorbital narrow. Hind preopercle edge nearly 

 vertical, sloping slightly forward below. Opercle deep and narrow, 

 and surface nearly smooth. A long occipital fontanel begins oppo- 

 site front pupil rim and extends up within occipital process well 

 towards its tip. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front edge of eye. Gill-rakers 

 about 9 + 12, slender, lanceolate, about f length of gill-filaments, 

 and latter If in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, surface convex, 

 and with slight groove in front. Branchiostegals moderate, sub- 

 equal. 



Scales mostly large and well exposed, disposed in longitudinal 

 series parallel with 1. 1., and each one with a number of radiating 

 striffi, about 8 usually exposed. Scales become a little smaller along 

 anal base, and two or three series extend over latter, at least on 

 anterior part of fin. Scales of small size over most of caudal, at 

 least its greater basal portion. Free axillary pointed ventral scaly 

 flap, its length f of fin. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved, running 

 a little low along side of caudal peduncle at first, and simple tubes 

 extend about first f over exposures of scales. 



Dorsal inserted about midway between hind edge of adipose fin 

 and snout tip, first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends 

 If to caudal base. Adipose fin inserted much nearer depressed 

 dorsal tip than caudal base, its length about equal to eye. Caudal 

 well forked, pointed lobes 'about equal. Anal inserted opposite 

 last dorsal ray base, with slight elevated lobe in front. Pectoral 

 slender, pointed, low, reaches slightly beyond ventral origin. Ven- 

 tral inserted slightly before dorsal insertion, and depressed fin about 

 reaching to anal origin. Vent at last third in space between ventral 

 and anal origins. 




191-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Color in alcohol largely pale brownish, upper or dorsal region 

 very slightly darker, and lower surface paler. Head brownish 

 above, paler below. Lips pale brown. Eye slaty. Level with 

 upper part of eye, or on vertebral axis, a blackish humeral blotch, 

 a little deeper than wide, and distant from head 5 scales. All about 

 humeral blotch a pale area, best understood on examining figure. 

 Several scales posterior a narrow dusky streak begins and runs 

 along vertebral axis, and though gradually enlarging to caudal base, 

 not forming spot on latter. Fins all pale or whitish, dorsal and 

 caudal tinged with grayish. 



Length 95 mm. 



Type, No. 39,330, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



No. 39,331, paratype, same data. Head 3f ; depth 2; D. iii, 9; 

 A. IV, 23, i; scales 33 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 more on latter 

 8 scales above 1. 1.; 6 scales below 1. 1. to ventral origin; 7 scales 

 below 1. 1. to anal origin; 10 predorsal scales; snout 4 in head; eye 

 3iVj maxillary 2f ; interorbital 2f ; length 95 mm. 



Apparently a form of Moenkhausia ckrysargyrea (Giinther),^^ 

 though it is incompletely described. No mention is made of the 

 pale area surrounding the humeral blotch, and the dark posterior 

 lateral vertebral streak. That this color pattern should have 

 resulted from preservation originally in formaline may be likely 

 in the first case, though less so in the last. 



(J £0X09, white; t-cu,u'.^^ shoulder.) 



Gymnocorymbus nemopterus sp. nov. Fig. 8. 



Head 31; depth If; D. iv, 9, i; A. iv, 32, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; 

 scales 33 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 10 scales above 

 1. 1.; 10 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 12 predorsal scales; head 

 width 1| its lengih; head depth at occiput 1; snout 4 in head, meas- 

 ured from upper jaw tip; eye 2|; maxillary 2|; interorbital 2^; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2; first branched anal ray 1|; pec- 

 toral 1; ventral 1|. 



Body deeply ovoid, compressed, upper anterior profile double 

 concave, and lower profile much more bulging. Body edges con- 

 stricted, though not trenchant, and greatest depth at dorsal origin. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, its length about half its least 

 depth. 



12 Tetragonopierus chrysargyreus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., VII, 186P, 

 p. 328. Essequibo. 




248 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



Head small, compressed, upper profile slightly concave from 

 snout to occiput, lower profile a little more inclined, and flattened 

 sides but very slightly constricted below. Snout convex over surface 

 and in profile, broadly convex as viewed from above, and its length 

 about half its width. Eye rounded, placed about first | in head. 

 Adipose-eyelid little developed, only extends on eye a little in front 

 and behind. Mouth broad, shallowly cleft, and latter falling on 

 level with upper edge of pupil. Maxillary nearly vertical, reaches 

 opposite front of eye, slender, and greatest expansion about ^ of eye. 



Fig. 8. — Gymnocorymbus nemopterus Fowler. (Type.) 



Lips firm, moderate. Mandible, when closed, very slightly pro- 

 truding, and moderate rami not elevated in mouth. Upper teeth 

 biserial, quincuspid, and inner row larger. No maxillary teeth. 

 Teeth in lower jaw uniserial, median largest, and similar to upper 

 teeth. Tongue broad, depressed, free, and rounded in front. Nos- 

 trils together, anterior circular and its hind cutaneous rim exposes 

 larger posterior in crescent with its frenum falling over front eye 

 edge. Interorbital evenly convex. Posterior infraorbital broad, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



leaves but very narrow naked strip below, scarcely striate, and its 

 width f of eye. Hind preopercle edge vertically inclined or sloping 

 slightly forward. Opercle narro^', deep, smooth, upper hind edge 

 scarcely emarginate. 



Gill-opening extends, forward opposite front pupil edge. Gill- 

 rakers about 10 + 15, lanceolate, slender, sharp-pointed, about 

 I in gill-filaments, and latter 2 in eye. Isthmus narrowly constricted, 

 surface convex. Branchiostegals rather small, broad, subequal. 



Scales well exposed, large, and disposed in series parallel with 

 1. 1. Caudal base and good portion of lobes, also anal base, covered 

 with smaller scales. Each exposure of scale shows about 8 to 10 

 radiating striae. Ventral with short free pointed axillary scaly flap 

 about I in length of fin. L. 1. complete, slightly decurved or bending 

 doA\ai till about midway in greatest depth, and formed of simple 

 tubes, each extending over about first |^ of scale exposure. From 

 occiput to origin of doi^sal a narrow median naked strip, over which 

 none of scales pass. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base, last simple 

 ray longest and its tip prolonged into a filament extending back far 

 as adipose fin. Latter inserted much nearer caudal base than last 

 dorsal ray base, and fin length trifle less than eye. Caudal well 

 forked, pointed lobes about equal. Anal inserted nearly opposite last 

 branched dorsal ray base, first branched ray longest, though anterior 

 rays not forming lobe. Pectoral broad, pointed, reaches back about 

 opposite first third in depressed ventral. Ventral inserted about 

 opposite dorsal origin and depressed fin extends | to anal origin. 

 Vent at last f in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol largely pale brownish, whitish on sides and below. 

 Head dull brownish above, sides and below whitish. Iris slaty. A 

 dull brownish vertical ill-defined humeral blotch, about third scale 

 from head on vertebral axis and posterior 3 scales, also another less 

 distinct one. Both these blotches with white intermediate area in 

 front. From second dark blotch a narrow dusky vertebral line 

 extends back towards caudal base, though ends abruptly before 

 latter. Throughout its course it gradually expands and finally 

 results in a spot on the side of caudal peduncle. Fins all pale and 

 all more or less tinged with grayish. Front edges of dorsal, anal, 

 and especially ventral, dusky. Adipose fin dusky. Median dark 

 streak dowTi back. 



Length 80 mm. . 



Type, No. 39,332, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Also Nos. 39,333 to 39,336, paratypes, same data. Head 3| to 

 4; depth If to 2; D. iii, 9, i; A. iv,"31, i or iv, 32, i; scales 34 in 

 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 9 scales above 1. 1.; 11 

 scales below 1. 1.; usually 13 predorsal scales, sometimes 14; snout 

 3f to 4 in head; eye 2f to 2f ; maxillary 2| to 2|; interorbital 2| to 

 2|; length 50 to 76 mm. 



Related to Gymnocorymhus thayeri Eigenmann,^'' and agrees as 

 far as the short account allows. The long produced anterior or 

 first branched dorsal ray and dark ventral and anal edges would 

 appear to be distinguishing characters. 



(Nrj;j.a, thread; -rspuv, fin; with reference to the first branched 



dorsal ray.) 



BRYCONIN.^. 



Brycon falcatUS Miiller and Troschel. 



Three examples, 118 to 137 mm. 



Chalceus labrosus Schomburgk is imperfectly described, though 

 likely identical. The figure is less satisfactory. 



Chalceus macrolepidotus Cuvier. 



Two examples, 150 to 157 mm. They differ slightly from Pelle- 



grinina heterolepis Fowler.i"* The latter has shorter pectorals, a 



broader snout, dusky fins, nearly even jaws, pectoral reaches beyond 



ventral origin, and adipose eyelid absent, etc. The erroneous 



locality was doubtless due to the mixing of collections in the Academy 



from West Africa and Surinam or some other part of South America. 



I shall therefore admit the nominal Pellegrinina as identical, following 



Regan. 



STETHAPRIONIN.E. 



Ephippicharax orbicularis (Valenciennes). 



Head 3f to 4; depth 2 to 2f ; D. in, 9, i; A. v, 31, i to v, 33, i; 

 scales 32 to 35 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 10 scales 

 above 1. 1.; 10 or 11 scales below 1. 1. to anal origin; 9 predorsal 

 scales forward to hind end of occipital process; snout 3f to 4 in head, 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 2|; maxillary 2| to 2|; 

 interorbital 2f to 2h ; length of three examples 50 to 66 mm. 



CHALCIN.E. 



Chalcinus angulatus (Agassiz). 



Head 3^; depth 2|; D. iii, 8, i; A. in, 26, i; scales 32 in 1. 1. to 

 caudal base, and 3 more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 2 scales 



1^ Bull. Mus. Comp. ZouL, 190S, p. 9.3. Amazons, from Tabatinga to Gurupa. 

 " Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 442, fig. 39. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



below 1. 1. to ventral origin, and 3 to anal origin; predorsal scales 

 14, counted forward to hind end of occipital process; snout 4 in 

 head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3f; maxillary 3; inter- 

 orbital 3; gill-rakers 16 + 34; length 143 mm. This example 

 differs slightly from others in the collection I previously studied 

 in the slightly curved dorsal profile. Compared with the type of 

 Triportheus flavus Cope, it shows few scales above 1. 1., and shorter 

 pectoral, this not reaching tip of ventral, or scarcely beyond dorsal 



origin. 



SERRASALMIN.E. 



Serrasalmus gymnogenys Gunther. 



One example 130 mm. 



Serrasalmus rhombeus (Linnaeus). 

 One example 148 mm. 



Pygocentrus piraya (Cuvier). 



One example 158 mm. 

 Pygocentrus scapularis (Gunther). 



One example 160 mm. 

 Pygopristis denticulatus (Cuvier). 



Two examples, 85 and 112 mm. Each show about twelve darker 

 vertical streaks on side of back, though last two which are on caudal 

 peduncle anteriorly and on caudal base larger and darker. Upper 

 sides also with a number of small dark brown spots, obscure and 

 rather irregular. Both specimens infested with psorosperms^ 

 especially smaller. 



MYLIN^. 



Catoprion mento (Cuvier). 



Two examples, 90 to 135 mm. 



Mylophus rubripinnis (Muller and Troschel). 



Two examples, 105 to 175 mm. 



CYNODONTIN.E. 



Cynodon gibbus Spix. 



One example 220 mm. 



CHARACIN.E. 



Exodon paradoxus Miiller and Troschel. 



Two examples, 98 and 118 mm. 



XIPHOCHARAX gen. nov. 

 Type Xiphocharax ogilviei sp. nov. 

 Premaxillary with pair of small approximated or median canines, 

 two smaller canines at distal end of each bone, and all smaller teeth 




252 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



entirely uniserial. Mandible with three canines on each ramus, 

 and these graduated to external, which largest. Maxillary with 

 single series of fine small teeth and without canines. Clavicle 

 notched. Lower angle of preopercle ends in spine directed down 

 posteriorly. Cheeks naked. 



Related to Acanthocharax Eigenmann, and Heterocharax Eigen- 

 mann, but differs in the above characters. One species. 



(cjfo?^ sword; .Vry./)«r, Charax; with reference to the long canines.) 

 Xiphocharax ogilviei sp. nov. Fig. 9. 



Head 4; depth 3^; D. iii, 8, i; A. v, 38, i; P. i, 16; V. i, 7; scales 

 78 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 6 more on latter; 26 scales in vertical 

 series between dorsal origin and 1. 1.; 18 scales between anal origin 

 and 1. 1.; 53 scales between dorsal origin and hind end of occipital 



Fig. 9. — Xiphocharax ogilviei Fowler. (Type.) 



process; head width IfV in its length; head depth at occiput 1^; 

 mandible. 1|; first branched dorsal ray 1^; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3; ventral If; first branched anal ray 2\; snout 3f in 

 head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3|; maxillary ly'V; inter- 

 orbital 3|. 



Body elongate, greatly compressed, form clongately ovoid with 

 greatest depth at ventral origin, edges all convexly rounded with 

 breast broad and depressed and postventral well constricted. Cau- 

 dal peduncle well compressed, its length about | its least depth. 



Head large, deep, well- compressed, though flattened sides not 

 t'onstricted above or below, upper profile concave and lower bulges 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.. 253 



•convexly into much greater inclination from mandibular articulation. 

 Snout convex in profile and over surface, length about half its width, 

 and broadly convex as viewed from above. Eye large, high, a 

 trifle deeper than wide, and placed about first | in head, measured 

 from upper jaw tip. Pupil vertically ellipsoid, large. Adipose- 

 eyelid slightly developed in front and behind. Mouth large, superior, 

 broad. ^Maxillary vertical, extends down well below lower eye edge, 

 only lower portion exposed, which shows many deep vertical striae, 

 and greatest expansion 2f in eye. Lips firm, rather thin. Upper 

 jaw with a general series of small equal simple conic teeth, extending 

 •on maxillaries nearly to their hind or lower end. Upper jaw teeth 

 interrupted in premaxillary region by 4 equally spaced enlarged 

 .simple conic canines, of which inner pair slightly larger and obso- 

 letely barbed. Mandible with 6 large conic barbed canines, and 

 each outer one largest. Innermost pair of mandibular teeth smallest, 

 though separated slightly more than those medianly in upper jaw, 

 .also smaller than latter. On sides of mandibular rami a few equal 

 small obscure conic teeth, these also continued irregularly in places, 

 -as behind sj^nphysis in an inner series. Inner buccal folds Inroad. 

 Tongue broad, depressed, rounded and well free in front. Mandible 

 large, well protruded in front, powerful, and rami moderately elevated 

 in mouth. Nostrils together, anterior simple pore with cutaneous 

 hind edge exposing larger posterior in crescent, frenum formed 

 about level with upper eye edge. Interorbital broadly convex. 

 Preorbital ..narrow and long. Infraorbital a little shorter than 

 preorbital elements, covers greater part of cheek, surface with radi- 

 ating strise, its width about half its length and latter about equals 

 •eye, Preopercle ridge and hind edge inclined well forward, and 

 latter ends in broad strong pointed spine projecting obliquely down 

 posteriorly, Opercle deep, upper hind edge scarcely emarginated, 

 smooth, except deep transverse median groove. Bony exposure of 

 shoulder-girdle with fine strise, and deeply notched to receive base 

 of pectoral fin. Suprascapula entire, small. Occipital and parietal 

 fontanels long and distinct. Occipital process extends back opposite 

 hind edge of exposed shoulder-girdle. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite front eye edge, Gill- 

 rakers III 3 + 10 II, strong, lanceolate, and 2f in gill-filaments, which 

 latter about 2 in eye. Isthmus broadly convex, constricted in front. 

 Branchiostegals large, subequal, broad. 



Scales small, narrowly imbricated, disposed in longitudinal series 

 parallel with 1. 1., and in transverse series sloping obliquely forward. 




254 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Scales on back all reduced in size and crowded. Caudal base and 

 anal base covered with small scales. No scaly axillary flaps. L. 1. 

 complete, extends as decurved a little below middle in greatest depth 

 and sloping up low along side of caudal peduncle to caudal base 

 medianly. Tubes of mostly simple structure, though ends in pos- 

 teriorly downward directed prong. 



Dorsal inserted a little nearer caudal base than snout tip, first 

 branched ray longest, and depressed fin reaches 2J to caudal base^ 

 Adipose fin small, its length If in eye, and its origin nearer caudal 

 base than depressed dorsal tip. Caudal (damaged) slightly emar- 

 ginate and lobes apparently equal? Anal inserted slightly before 

 middle of dorsal base, anterior rays slightly longer than others, and 

 fin base not quite twice dorsal length. Pectoral broad, low, inserted 

 slightly behind gill-opening, and reaches back apparently to anal 

 (tip damaged). Ventral inserted a little nearer anal origin than 

 pectoral origin, and fin about reaches latter. Vent about last 

 fourth in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish on back, becoming paler below and 

 on abdomen. Head brownish above, sides and below pale or whitish. 

 Front of lips tinged brownish. Iris slaty. Fins all pale brownish, 

 mostly with more or less dusky tints. 



Length 210 mm. (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 39,337, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J, Ogilvie. 



Only the above example known. In the figure, the ends of the- 

 fins aye restored in some cases. 



(Named for Mr. J. Ogilvie, who collected the type.) 



ACESTRORHYNCHIN^. 

 Acestrorhynchus falcirostris (Cuvier). 

 Two examples, 227 and 233 mm. 



HYDROCYNIN.^. 



Hydrooynus cuvieri (Agassiz). 



One example 314 mm. 



ERYTHRININ.E. 



Hoplias malabaricus (Bloeh). 



Two examples, 150 and 155 mm. 

 Erythrinus unitaeniatus Agassiz. 



One example 160 nnn. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



GYMNOTID^. 

 ELECTROPHORIN^. 

 Electrophorus electricus (Linnaeus). 



One example 346 mm. 



STERNOPYGIN.E. 

 Sternopygus macrurus (Schneider). 



Five examples, 128 to 432 mm. 



Eigenmannia virescens (Valenciennes). 



Two examples, 305 and 338 mm. 



Gymnorhamphichthys hypostomus Ellis. 



Two examples, 100 and 138 mm. 



STERNARCHIN^. 



Sternarohus albifrons (Linnaeus). 



Two examples, 141 and 173 mm. These agree largely with Cope's 



example, recorded as Sternarchns albifrons from the Peruvian 



Amazon.^5 It differs, however, in having the light predorsal streak 



continuous from the head to the origin of the dorsal fin. The 



Rupununi examples show it only for the first quarter or third of this 



region. They also show the following: Head 5| to 6j; depth 5^ 



to 5|; A. 150? to 160?; scales about 72 to 90 in 1. 1. according to 



tubes and pores; 15 to 18 scales above 1. 1., opposite pectoral tip, 



counted to median line of back; 3 or 4 scales above 1. 1. to dorsal 



origin; about 116 to 120 predorsal scales; about 30 scales below 



I. 1. at greatest body depth; snout 2f to 2| in head; interorbital 



4^; maxillary If to If in snout; eye 3| to 5|; gill-rakers 2 -j- 5 or 6. 



These two examples also differ from one another in respect to color, 



the larger having a black and rather long slender caudal peduncle. 



The smaller has a very constricted caudal peduncle, marked by a 



dusky blotch, and the caudal dusky, while in the larger example 



the caudal is white. 



ASPREDINID^. 

 Bunooephalus amaurus Eigenmann. 



One example, 40 mm. long. It differs from Eigenmann's account 

 in the head width, which is 3f in total length. Barbels banded 

 basally. Maxillary barbel not quite reaching pectoral. Eigenmann 

 gives^^ as a distinction from Bunocephalus gronovii Bleeker, in his 



^ Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XVII, 1878, p. 628. 



IS Mem. Carnegie Mus., Y, 1912, p. 126, Pi. 2 (non 1), fig. 2. 




256 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



key, "distance from snout to dorsal considerably more than 3 iiL 

 length with caudal." My example would show it about 2f, nearly 

 in agreement with his figure. 



SILURID^. 

 PIMELODIN^. 

 Megalonema rhabdostigma sp. nov. Fig. 10. 



Head 3|; depth 4i; D. I, 6; A. iv, 9, i; P. I, 9; V. i, 5; head 

 width If in its length; head depth at occiput 1|; snout 2yV; eye 

 5|; maxillary 2|; mouth width 2^^ ; interorbital 4; antero-internasal 

 5^; dorsal spine, and flexible tip. If; length of adipose fin about 

 If; first branched anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 4|; 

 upper caudal lobe about 1|; pectoral 1^; ventral 1|. 



Fig. 10.— Megalonema rhabdostigma Fowler. (Type.) 



Body moderately compressed, anteriorly slightly robust, deepest 

 at dorsal origin, and edges all convex. Caudal peduncle moderately 

 compressed, deast depth about 2 in its length. 



Head moderately robust, upper profile but very slightly undulate 

 from snout tip to occiput and dorsal origin, and a little more inclined 

 than lower profile, convex sides slightly converge convexly above 

 and very broad below, with under surface but slightly convex. 

 Snout broadly depressed, surface nearly level, its length about Ij 

 its greatest width, or head width opposite front of eyes. Eye large, 

 superior, ellipsoid, centre slightly behind middle in head length. 

 Eyelids frec^, without adipose develo]:)m(Mit. Mouth large, broadly 

 transverse, commissure short and with folded groove at each corner 

 reaching })ack opposite last | in snout length. Broad band of 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



villiform teeth in upper jaw, twice as broad as similar mandibular 

 band, and exposed below in specimen as now preserved, as snout 

 protrudes well before mandible. No vomerine teeth. Inner buccal 

 folds broad. Tongue broad, fleshy, not free except along edges, 

 and depressed. Maxillary extends back nearly to last third in 

 snout, with long barbel originating superiorly, depressed basally 

 somewhat, and extending back nearly opposite last anal ray base. 

 Outer mental barbels longer than inner, extend back slightly beyond 

 pectoral origin. Inner mental barbels reach about | of space to 

 pectoral origin. Internasal spaces subequal, posterior pair slightly 

 more remote from one another, and space between front and hind 

 nostril about 1^ in antero-internasal space. Interorbital broad, 

 slightly concave, with fontanel extending back not quite opposite 

 hind edges of eyes, where greatest width obtains, and gradually 

 narrowed forward till it ends about opposite last y in snout length. 

 Occipital and lateral contiguous bones, also predorsal plate, all 

 with fine rugose striae. Opercle with well-marked radiating striae. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite last fifth in snout 

 length. Gill-rakers 4 + 14, short, firm, lanceolate, about If in 

 filaments. Latter 2 in eye. Isthmus broad, level. 



Body covered with smooth skin. Head rugosely striated, as 

 mentioned, also occipital process and articulating predorsal bucker, 

 besides exposure of shoulder-girdle over pectoral origin. L. 1. a 

 little high at first, soon becomes median, with more or less alternating 

 short branches most of its course, which continuous out on caudal 

 base. 



Dorsal origin about first f in space between snout tip and caudal 

 base, spine moderate, smooth, slightly curved, with flexible tip and 

 latter slightly less thait tip of first dorsal ray. Adipose fin inserted 

 slightly nearer dorsal origin than caudal base, with contour sloping 

 up to high median apex. Anal inserted slightly behind insertion 

 of adipose fin, first branched ray longest and reaches back well 

 beyond tip of last ray or f of distance to caudal base. Caudal well 

 forked, slender pointed lobes about equal, and emargination of fin 

 nearly | its length. Pectoral low, pointed, spine slender, both edges 

 with small antrorse serrae, with flexible tip which longest of rays, 

 and fin extends 1| to ventral. Latter inserted slightly nearer 

 dorsal origin than origin of adipose fin, and depressed fin reaches 

 I to anal. Vent and genital pore well separated. Genital pore 

 about first sixth in space between inner ventral ray base and anal 

 origin, and vent about first third of same area. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Color in alcohol dull brownish above or on back and upper surface 

 of head, lower or under surfaces and lips paler or whitish. From 

 dorsal origin down on back a pale streak, when below I. 1. it follows 

 latter below to caudal. Behind oblique lateral pale streak, another 

 lengthwise streak begins posterior to its crossing 1. 1. and continues 

 to caudal base, keeping parallel with 1. 1. its whole extent. On 

 caudal both pale streaks are merged in the median color of that 

 fin. Lower boundary of lower pale streak indicated by a pale grayish 

 lengthwise streak, made of minute dusky dots, which become closer 

 on caudal base and finally form a blackish streak across median 

 portion of lower caudal lobe nearly to its tip. In similar fashion 

 upper dark body color marks upper caudal lobe. Maxillary barbels 

 brownish above, pale or whitish below like mental barbels. Dorsal 

 fin whitish, with a large sharply contrasted superior median blackish 

 blotch. Adipose fin brownish. Remaining tints of caudal, on 

 regions not mentioned, whitish. Pectoral, ventral and anal whitish. 



Length 270 mm. 



Type, No. 39,338, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Known only from the above. It resembles Megalonema platy- 

 cephalum Eigemnann, but that species is said to be pale or nearly 

 uniform in color, with a pair of hidden spots at the caudal base and 

 the lower caudal lobe dusky. 



('Fa,3do<^, streak; (rriyim^ spot; with reference to the lengthwise 

 streaks and the dorsal blotch.) 



Chasmocranus longior Eigenmann. 

 One example, 87 mm. long. 



Rhamdia sebae (Valenciennes). 



One example, 127 mm. long. 



Rhamdia holomelas rupununi subsp. nov. Fig. 11. 



Head 3f ; depth 6|; D. I, 6; A, iv, 8; P. I, 8; V. i, 5; head width 

 \\ in its length; head depth at occiput IfV; snout 2f ; eye 4; max- 

 illary 4; mouth width 2|; interorbital 5; antero-internasal 5j; 

 dorsal spine 2; first branched dorsal ray If; second branched anal 

 ray 2\\ upper caudal lobe \\; least depth caudal peduncle 3; pec- 

 toral spine \\; pectoral fin 1|; ventral fin If. 



Body elongate, slender, moderately compressed, anteriorly slightly 

 depressed, deepest about dorsal origin, and edges all convexly 

 rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, length about equals its 

 least depth. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



259 



Head depressed, profiles similar, well convex bulging sides slightly 

 constricted above, and under surface broadly convex. Snout 

 broadly depressed or very slightly convex, its length about f its 

 width opposite front eye edges. Eye ellipsoid, superior, impinging 

 on upper profile, and centre midway in head. Eyelids free, not 

 adipose-like. Mouth moderate, transverse, commissure very short. 

 Broad bands of villiform teeth in jaws, lower f width of upper and 

 latter with posteriorly directed angle at each end. No other teeth 

 in mouth. Inner buccal folds moderately broad. Tongue broad, 

 depressed, fleshy, rounded in front and free around edges. Maxillary 

 reaches about opposite middle in snout length. Maxillary barbel 

 slender, depressed basally, reaches opposite second dorsal ray base. 

 Outer mental barbels slightly extended beyond pectoral origin. 



Fig. 11. — Rhamdia holomelas rupununi Fowler . (Type.) 



Inner mental barbels shorter, reach f to pectoral origin. Mandible 

 shallow, with snout slightly protruded in front. Internasal spaces 

 subequal, anterior nostril near front edge of snout and posterior at 

 last third in its length. Interorbital narrow, osseous area restricted, 

 and cutaneous supraorbital region elevated to produce concave 

 appearance. Surface of head smooth, covered with skin. Opercle 

 broad. Occipital process short, well separated from dorsal. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite front pupil edge. Gill- 

 rakers 5+ 13, slender, curved, lanceolate, little longer than filaments, 

 or If in eye. Isthmus broadly convex. 



Body covered with smooth skin, without any rugose areas. L, 1. 



superior at first, becomes median after ventrals, complete and 



continuous on caudal base, not branched. 



Dorsal origin about first third in space midway between snout 

 18 




260 ■* PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



tip and caudal base, spine with front edge distally furnished with a 

 series of antrorse serrse under skin, and tip ends in flexible ray-like 

 end. First branched dorsal ray longest, depressed tip falls slightly 

 short of tips of last. Origin of adipose fin slightly nearer gill-opening 

 than caudal base, slopes up gradually at first until near middle when 

 uniformly high, and its entire length about Sg- in combined length 

 of head and trunk. Caudal moderate, well forked, lobes about 

 equal, sharply and similarly pointed, and rudimentary rays well 

 developed. Anal inserted slightly nearer ventral origin than caudal 

 base, and third branched ray about longest, edge of fin rounded. 

 Pectoral low, with strong spine, both edges with antrorse serrse 

 though inner distal edge smooth, and depressed fin reaches 1^ to 

 ventral. Ventral inserted just behind dorsal base, fin rounded, and 

 extends about f to anal origin. Vent anterior, falls about first f 

 in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol dull or pale uniform bro^vnish above, becoming 

 somewhat mottled or variegated with darker brownish on caudal 

 peduncle, posterior region of trunk and caudal base. Lower surface 

 of body pale brownish to whitish. Iris slaty. Lips pale. Max- 

 illary barbels brownish, and mental barbels pale or whitish like chin. 

 Fins all grayish-brown, tinted a little deeper medianly. 



Length 145 mm. 



Type, No. 39,339, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Related to Rhamdia holomelas (Giinther),!^ and it may possibly 

 prove to be identical. However, Giinther gives the long adipose 

 fin as 2 to 2j in total length without caudal, maxillary barbels reaching 

 origin or middle of adipose fin, outer mental barbels reach middle of 

 pectoral, depth 5 to 5|, head 4, eye 2 in interorbital, caudal cleft 

 to base and color uniform black with brownish shade, lighter on 

 belly. His examples were a foot long, though he also had young. 

 The inference would be that these characters would apply to young 

 and adult as their latitude allows. For this reason, as mj^ example 

 will be seen to differ considerably, especially in the above-mentioned 

 points, I allow it a^ distinct. 



(Named for the Rupununi River.) ;, 



Rhamdella leptosoma >^v- nov. Fig. 12. 



Head 4|; depth 8i; D. I, 6; A. vi, 8; P. I, 9; V. i, 5; head width 

 I5 in its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3j; eye 3j; max- 



" Pimelodus holomelas Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., V, 1864, p. 120. 

 Essequibo. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



261 



illary 5; moutli witlth 3; interorbital 4; pungent dorsal spine 2; 

 first branched dorsal ray li; first branched anal ray 1|; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle behhid adipose fin 3; pectoral spine 1|; pectoral 

 fin 1|; ventral fin If. 



Body elongate, slender, compressed, deepest at dorsal origin and 

 tapers back gradually and slightly, edges all convex. Caudal 

 peduncle well compressed, least depth 1| its length, measured from 

 hind edge of adipose fin. 



Head small, depressed, profiles similarly and slightly convex, 

 swollen sides below broadly converge above, lower surface convex. 

 Snout broadly convex, length | basal width at front of eyes. Eye 

 ellipsoid, superior, centre slightly anterior in head length. Adipose- 

 eyelid not developed, ,and eyelids free. jNIouth moderately small. 



Fig. 12. — Rhamdella leptosotna Fowler. (Type.) 



with upper jaw slightly protruding, commissure very short. Lips 

 firm, fleshy. Maxillary extends about f in snout length. Teeth 

 in villiform bands in jaws, subequal in width, and each end of upper 

 band ends in posteriorly directed angle. Inner buccal folds narrow. 

 No other teeth in mouth. Tongue broad, fleshy, thick, depressed, 

 edges not free. Maxillary barbel very long, slender, reaches back 

 about half way in length of depressed last anal ray. Outer mental 

 barbel reaches to last^ or distal sixth of depressed pectoral spine. 

 Inner mental barbel reaches pectoral origin. Internasal spaces 

 subequal, anterior nostril near front snout edge in slight tube and 

 posterior nostril at last third in snout as simple pore. Interorbital 

 moderate, level. Bones on upper surface of head covered with 

 thiri skin, surfaces smooth. A narrow lengthwise median fontanel, 

 well defined most entire upper extent of cranium and ending pos- 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



teriorly at base of occipital process. Opercle widely and unevenly 

 triangular. Occipital process extends back toward dorsal as narrow 

 slender prolongation f of space. 



Gill-opening extends forward nearly opposite front eye margin. 

 Gill-rakers 4+6, slender, lanceolate, firm, about f of filaments. 

 Latter 2| in eye. Isthmus broadly convex. 



Body covered with smooth skin, and no rugose bony surfaces. 

 L. 1. complete, midway along side, and extends to median caudal 

 base. 



Dorsal origin nearer adipose fin origin than snout tip, slender 

 pungent spine smooth-edged and equals about half length of fin, 

 ending in long slender flexible tip. Second dorsal ray longest and 

 extends back as far as any of others. Adipose fin inserted nearly 

 midway between front eye edge and caudal base, fin low, graduated 

 up at first, and its length 2f in combined head and trunk length. 

 Anal inserted nearly midway between ventral origin and hind basal 

 edge of adipose fin, first to fourth branched rays subequally longest 

 and fin rounded. Caudal very long, deeply forked, lobes slender, 

 pointed, and upper longer. Pectoral low, spine pungent, outer 

 distal edge and median posterior edge with small antrorse serrse, 

 depressed fin extending 1| to ventral. Latter inserted about oppo- 

 site fifth dorsal ray base, fin reaching If to anal. Vent close behind 

 ventral bases, or about first fifth in space between ventral and anal 

 origins. 



Color in alcohol pale or very light brownish generally on upper 

 surfaces, lower surface paler or translucent whitish. Upper surface 

 of darker tint, due to minute dusky dots. A dark streak, made 

 up of closely set dusky dots, extends from snout tip to caudal base, 

 embracing. 1. 1. Lips pale brownish. Maxillary barbel brownish, 

 and other barbels whitish. Dorsal largely pale or translucent 

 basally on membranes, upper or distal halves dusky. Adipose fin 

 and caudal dusky-gray. Other fins pale or grayish. Iris slaty. 

 Length 80 mm. 



Type, No. 39,340, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Also, paratype, No. 39,341, A. N. S. P., same data. Head 4f ; 

 depth 7; D. I, 6; A. vi, 8, i; snout 2| in head; eye 31; maxillary 

 3f ; mouth width 3; interorbital 4; length 81 mm. 



This species differs from Rhamdella foina (Miiller and Troschel)^* 



1* Pimelodus foina Miiller and Troschel, Reis. Schomhurgk, III, 1848, p. 628. 

 Takutu. 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



263 



in its more slender body, more anal rays, longer maxillary barbels, 

 and the coloration. Rhamdella eriarcha (Eigenmann and Eigen- 

 mann)'^ another related species agrees in the slender body and 

 coloration, though differs in its short maxillary barbels and fewer 

 gill-rakers. Rhamdella ignohiUs Steindachner-" has maxillary barbels 

 reaching only to the dorsal end basally, larger head and deeper 

 body, though its color is suggestive. 

 (JsTrro?, slender; (7w/7.«, body.) 



Pimelodella cristata (Miiller and Troschel). 



One example 140 mm. 



Pimelodella gracile (Valenciennes). Fig. 13. 



One example 155 mm. Not previously recorded from British 

 Guiana. 



Fig. 13. — Pimelodella gracile (Valenciennes). 

 Pimelodus clarias (Bloch). 



One example 220 mm. ]\Iaxillary barbels reach caudal base. 



Hemisorubim platyrhynchos (Valenciennes). 



One example 260 mm. 



Sorubim lima (Schneider). 



One example 270 mm. Also an addition to the fauna of British 

 Guiana. 



DORADIN.E. 



Doras costatus (Linnaeus). 



Two examples 180 mm. and 270 mm. 



^' Rhamdia eriarcha Eigenmann and Eigenmann, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., (2) I, 

 1888, p. 129. Rio Grande do Sul. 

 ^^Sitz. Ak. Wiss. Wien, CXVI, I, 1907, p. 4S4. Rio Cubatao, Brazil. 




264 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



Doras hancocki Valencienes. 



One example 76 mm. long. 

 Leptodoras linnelli Eigenmann. 



One example 165 mm. 

 Leptodoras trimaculatus sp. nov. Fig. u. 



Head 3|; depth 4J; D. I, 6; A. iv, 9; P. 



I, 7; V. I, 6; head width 



1 3 in its length; head depth at occiput 1^; snout 2f; eye 2f ; inter- 

 orbital 4^; dorsal spine 1; ventral If; first branched anal ray about 

 2|; upper caudal lobe 1^; least depth of caudal peduncle 4g. 



Body well compressed, moderately long, deepest at dorsal origin, 

 edges all convex, though predorsal slopes up each side to median 



--^. --^' . * -»** ^ .^ ^ * > ..^^ * * _JL -^^fc-->l^^' J— ¥ i^ -^ ^ ^ ^'ll^ T— -■— -^7~*' 



Fig. 14. — Leptodoras trimaculatus Fowler. (Tj^je.) 



constricted edge. Caudal peduncle wider than deep, least depth 

 about half its length. 



Head large, well compressed, elevated, upper profile convex, 

 curves down rather steeply in front. Snout conic, basal width about 

 I its lengih, upper profile concave-convex. Eye large, ellipsoid, 

 high, and centre slightly posterior in head length. Eyelid not free, 

 continuous with skin of head as adipose-eyelid. Mouth small, 

 anteriorly inferior. No teeth. Lips rather thick, flesh3\ Max- 

 illary barbel reaches slightly beyond pectoral origin, fleshy, and its 

 outer edge fringed with cirri. Mandible with cluster of four thick 

 papillose fleshy barbels hanging down, length of each about f of 

 eye. Tongue fleshy, little distinct. Nostrils simple pores, anterior 




11H4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



pair sUglitly closer to one another and about midway in snout length, 

 posterior pair close in front of eye above. Interorbital nearly level. 

 OiKTcle with a few radiating strige covered with thin skin. Upper 

 surface of head and predorsal buckler finely rugose-striate. Oc- 

 cipital fontanel begins on upper surface of interorbital opposite front 

 eye edges and extends back half way to dorsal origin. 



Gill-ojienings lateral, inferior, extend forward about opposite hind 

 pupil edge. Gill-rakers 1 + 9, short, conic, blunt at tips, -longest 

 4 in filaments and latter 2 in eye. Isthmus broad and flattened. 



Body mthout scales and exposed skin smooth. L. 1. with an 

 armature of 30 large scutes, of equal width over most of extent, 

 only becoming smaller on side of caudal peduncle, and hind edge 

 of each strongly denticulated. Exposed bony shoulder-girdle, 

 slightly swollen above pectoral base, with lengthwise striae or grooves. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than origin of adipose fin, 

 with long strong compressed spine, its front edge antrorsely serrate 

 and hind edge also serrate, though there serrse turned forwards. 

 Adipose fin inserted a little nearer caudal base than origin of ventral, 

 fin small or about equals eye. Anal inserted before adipose fin, or 

 slightly nearer ventral origin than caudal base, first branched ray 

 longest and lower edge slightly emarginate. Caudal well forked, 

 pointed lobes equal, and rudimentary rays well developed. Pectoral 

 low, wdth large well-compressed spine, both edges strongly serrate, 

 and when distended extends back nearly to first third in depressed 

 ventral length. Ventral origin just behind dorsal base, and fin 

 reaches f to anal origin. Vent at first third in space between ventral 

 and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol largely slaty-gray above, becoming silvery or 

 whitish below. Down middle of back from dorsal base, and just 

 above each lateral series of scutes, a deep gray or nearly slaty length- 

 wise streak. Lateral scutes pale or whitish. Iris slaty. Sides of 

 head silvery-white. Fins all with general tint pale grayish to whitish.^ 

 Dorsal with subbasal blackish blotch anteriorly and extending down 

 to bases of rays. Each caudal lobe with inner basal blotch of blackish. 



Length 77 mm. 



Type, No. 39,342. A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Related to Leptodoras Unnelli Eigenmann, but differs in the larger 

 eye and coloration. 



{Tri, three; macula, spot; with reference to the dorsal blotch and 

 the two caudal blotches.) 




266 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



AUCHENIPTERIN^. 



Trachycorystes galeatus (Linnaeus). 



One example 145 mm. long. 



Auchenipterus demerarse Eigenmann. 



Three examples 125 to 135 mm. 



Ageneiosus ogilviei sp. nov. Fig. 15. 



Head 3i; depth 6^; D. I, 6; A. ix, 32, i; P. I, 14; 

 width IJ in its length; head depth at occiput 2; 

 6f; maxillary 2; mouth width If; interorbital 1|; dorsal spine 2; 

 first branched dorsal ray If; length of adipose fin 3^; first branched 

 anal ray 3; least depth of caudal peduncle 5-|; upper caudal' lobe 

 If; pectoral spine If; pectoral fin If ; ventral 1^-^. 



Body elongate, trunk greatly compressed, and extremely broad 



V, I, 7; head 

 snout 2; eye 



Fig. 15. — Ageneiosus ogilviei Fowler. (Type.) 



anteriorly or at head, greatest depth at dorsal origin, edges all con- 

 vexly rounded, and trunk slopes gradually back to rather deep 

 caudal peduncle. Caudal peduncle well compressed, its least depth 

 ■* 2j in its length. 



Head large, greatly depressed, upper profile nearly straight from 

 snout tip to dorsal origin, lower profile horizontally convex, upper 

 surface convex and lower surface flattened. Snout very broad, 

 broadly convex as viewed above, length f its width, and protrudes 

 slightly beyond edge of mandible in front. Eye moderate, without 

 free eyelid, lateralh^ inferior, and about midway in head length. 

 Skin around eye forming somewhat adipose-liko. Maxillary reaches 

 back till close in front of eye. Jaws with about equally wide or 

 broad bands of villiform teeth, rather firm and rough to touch. No 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



other teeth in mouth. Inner buccal membranes very narrow, only 

 slightly developed. Tongue large, broad, thick, depressed above, 

 smooth, and free around edges. Lips not developed. Mandibular 

 rami low and broad, and asperous edge of upper jaw includes it all 

 around. Nostrils well separated, though posterior pair a little 

 closer and placed about y in snout length. Interorbital broadly con- 

 vex. Opercle moderate, with few radiating striae, though these 

 covered with thin skin of head. Frontal fontanel moderately broad, 

 extends from about midway between eyes till about midway in 

 snout length, and bones each side with lengthwise striae, though 

 their surfaces covered with thin skin. Occipital process wide, 

 strong, receives dorsal base in its posterior cleft. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite middle of eye. Gill- 

 rakers about 3 + 19, lanceolate, sharp-pointed, firm. If in gill- 

 filaments, and latter about 1 j in eye. No pseudobranchise. Isthmus 

 broad. Branchiostegals 9, slender, outer longer. 



Body covered with thin skin, at present rather soft and delicate. 

 No ossifications exposed on head. L. 1. complete, a little high at 

 first, becoming midway along side of caudal peduncle, continuous 

 on caudal base, and with moderately short branches all along its 

 course, giving off both above and below. 



Dorsal origin well anterior or well before first third in combined 

 head and trunk length, with slender compressed smooth-edged spine 

 but little less than first branched or longest dorsal ray, and depressed 

 fin extends 2j to origin of adipose fin. Latter inserted little nearer 

 ventral origin than caudal base, rather elongate and truncate behind. 

 Anal long, inserted about midway between hind maxillary edge 

 and caudal base, first branched ray longest and all other rays gradu- 

 ated down smaller, base of fin about 3^ in combined head and trunk 

 length. Caudal broad, rudimentary rays well developed, very 

 slightly emarginate with upper lobe longer so as to produce oblique 

 hind edge. Pectoral with compressed slender pungent smooth- 

 edged spines ending in flexible tip, fin broad, low, reaches slightly 

 beyond ventral, and its own insertion but slightly l^efore dorsal. 

 Ventral broad, low, insertion well behind dorsal base, and fin reaching 

 back nearly to first branched anal ray base. Vent close in front of 

 anal, its surrounding area greatly constricted. 



Color in alcohol largely grayish or slaty-bro\vn on back, sides and 

 lower surface whitish. Head brownish above, obscurely mottled 

 with dusky. Iris slaty. Lower surface of head, breast, and belly 

 whitish. Opercle with dusky border below. Edge of gill-opening 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



and postorbital region whitish, marked with several pale dusky 

 spots. Following course of 1. 1. its entire extent dusky lengthwise 

 streak, well defined and separated from color of back by whitish or 

 pale parallel and similar streak. Also another parallel and similar 

 pale streak below until over anal medianly, after which it merges in 

 general pale lower tint. From pectoral axilla dusky streak extends 

 back to anal, fading out behind. Now all dusky lengthwise streaks, 

 .and dark color of back variegated with irregular blotches of dusky, 

 anterior to ventral fins. Fins all with grayish-white general color. 

 Dorsal with a few small dusky spots, and pectorals and ventrals 

 with similar variable spots on their upper surfaces, showing through 

 below, and with their distal portions more or less dusky. Anal 

 shows traces of few pale dusky spots on distal portions of longest 

 rays. Caudal with broad posterior dusky to blackish edge, each 

 lobe with few rounded dusky spots. Adipose fin with large dusky 

 blotch above. 



Length 195 mm. 



Type, No. 39,343, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Related to Ageneiosus hrevijilis Valenciennes, though differs appar- 

 ently in the large pectorals and ventrals and black-edged caudal. 

 Cope's Peruvian example, about 200 mm. ? long, in poor condition, 

 shows the damaged pectorals apparently not reaching the ventrals. 



(Named for Mr. J. Ogilvie.) 



PYGIDID^. 

 *" STEGOPHILINiE. 



COBITIGLANIS subgen. nov. 

 Type Ochmacanthus taxisiigma sp. nov. 



Differs from Ochmacanthus Eigenmann in the anal being entirely 

 behind dorsal base and spines of preopercle and opercle in lesser 

 number. 



(A''»,5'cr;9, loach; y^avi^^ catfish; with reference to the superficial 

 resemblance these fishes bear to the loaches of the Old World.) 

 Ochmacanthus taxistigma sp. nov. Fig. lo. 



Head 5^; depth 6|; D. in, 6, i; A. iii, 4, i; P. i, 5, i; V. i, 4, i; 

 head width ly^ its length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3j; 

 ■eye 3; mouth width 1|; interorbital 3|; length of dorsal 1|; of 

 .anal If; of pectoral If; of ventral 2; of lower caudal lobe 1^; least 

 depth caudal peduncle 2\. 



Body elongate, slender, well compressed, belly bulging so that 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



269 



deepest about midway in space between pectoral and v(>ntral bases, 

 edges convex. Caudal peduncle well compressed, rather slender, 

 least depth about | its length. 



Head well depressed, broad, upper profile a little more convex 

 than lower, and lower sides bulge a little so that they slope slightly 

 in above, lower surface nearly level. Snout broadly depressed, 

 nearly evenly convex as seen from above, well protruded, and length 

 about I its greatest width about opposite front of eyes. Eyes 

 without free eyelids, skin of head extending over, superior, elongate, 

 and slightly ovoid, and placed al)out first f in head length. Mouth 

 broad and moderately crescentic as seen from below. Lips broad, 

 fleshy, and with rather obsolete transverse plications, though on 

 mandibular portion indistinctly broken or divided into papillae. 

 Maxillary ending in short, basally thick fleshy barbel, tip sharp or 

 pointed, and measured along its upper free edge about equals eye 



Fig. 16. — Ochmacanthus taxistigma Fowler. (Type. 



in length. Inside and hidden, also a much smaller maxillary barbel, 

 its length about i that of outer, though similar in most respects. 

 Upper jaw with 6 series of uniformly small teeth, rows arranged 

 transversely and continuously at equal distances across anterior 

 portion of mouth, all more or less pliable except last series, which 

 firmly, entrenched. At least 7 distinct transverse series of similar 

 teeth arranged along each mancUbular ramus, and a few others not 

 in very regular order scattered about symphysis. No other teeth 

 in mouth. Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue far back, broad, fleshy, 

 depressed, and evidently scarcely free. Each end of lower lip forms 

 broad fold on side of head below maxillary. Mandible broad, 

 depressed, flattened on lower surface, and symphysis would form 

 opposite front edge of eye. Nostrils well separated, anterior much 

 more widely apart and close in front of eye, and both pairs with 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr.^ 



slightly elevated cutaneous rims, though posterior pair larger and 

 placed opposite and within space between front edges of eyes. Inter- 

 orbital level. Preopercle with a cluster of 5 more or less concealed 

 large conic spines, partly eractile. Opercle with 2 similar, only 

 smaller, spines. 



Gill-opening small, lateral, just before pectoral base. 

 Body naked, covered with smooth skin. T.. 1. complete, simple 

 or without branches, and median along side. 



Dorsal origin a little nearer caudal base than pectoral origin, 

 first branched ray longest, and depressed fin extends about f to- 

 caudal base. Anal inserted just behind dorsal base, first branched 

 ray longest or extends back beyond tip of last so that fin reaches 

 y to caudal base. Caudal slightly emarginate, elongate and with 

 well-developed fulcra. Pectoral low, broad, extend about | to ven- 

 tral. Latter inserted well before dorsal origin or about midway 

 between pectoral origin and caudal base, and extends back f to anal 

 origin. Vent midway between depressed pectoral tip and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol pale or very light brownish, shading to whitish 

 on lower or under surface. Predorsal region with about four series 

 of dusky irregular spots. From behind dorsal only a few median 

 dusky spots, though upper surface of head with spots of similar size 

 to those of predorsal region. ' One of these blotches marks opercular 

 spines and another preopercular spines. Also a dark spot above 

 pectoral base. Following course of 1. 1. 16 dusky blotches, at first 

 small, then gradually larger until maximum size obtains on side 

 of caudal peduncle. Along upper extent of this series also several 

 smaller dark scattered spots. Fins all pale or whitish, several obscure 

 spots of dusky on dorsal, caudal, and pectoral base, others uniform. 

 Iris slaty. 



Length 93 mm. 



Type, No. 39,344, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



This species resembles Ochmacanthus flahelUferus Eigenmann, l)ut 

 differs in its dentition, coloration, and position of its fins. 



{Td^fi, row; ^r^/za, spot; with reference- to the series of large dark 

 lateral blotches along the lateral line.) 



CALLIOHTHYID^. 

 Callichthys callichthys (I.innisus). 



One example 128 mm. 



Hoplosternum thoracatum (Valenciennes). 



One example 70 mm. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 271 



LORICARIID^. 

 PLECOSTOMINiE. 



STONEIELLA gen. nov. 

 Type Stoneiella leopardus sp. nov. 



Teeth fine, but little enlarged at ends, moderately small, not 

 numerous. Interopercle with erectile spines, and these on movable 

 plate. Body spinescent almost everywhere above, especially 

 anteriorly. Lower surface of head, lower sides of abdomen and 

 belly naked. Lateral edges, as well as upper surfaces of head, 

 finely spinescent. Temporal plate imperforate. Tail short, com- 

 pressed. Adipose fin present. Anal with five branched rays. 



This genus differs from the related genera, or those of the present 

 subfamily, in the naked or unarmed lower regions. In its dentition 

 it approaches Lithoxus Eigenmann. One species. 



(Named for Dr. Witmer Stone, in slight recognition of his con- 

 tributions to natural history'.) 

 stoneiella leopardus sp. nov. Fig. 17. 



Head 4; depth 5; D. I, 8; A. I, 5; P. I, 6; V. I, 5; spinescent 

 armature of 1. 1. with about 24 bucklers, indistinctly defined; head 

 width lyV in its length, with head measured from snout tip to hind 

 •end of occipital process; head depth at gill-opening about 2; snout 

 1*; eye 5; width of buccal disk 2|; interorbital 2|; dorsal spine 1; 

 anal spine If; pectoral spine 1|; ventral spine 1|; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 3; upper caudal lobe about 1| (tip damaged). 



Body moderately long, well depressed, convex above, flattened 

 below, deepest at dorsal origin and widest at pectoral origins. Caudal 

 peduncle stout, becomes more compressed behind, and length about 

 I its depth. 



Head large, broad, convex above, flattened below, and upper profile 

 & little inclined and nearly straight. Snout depressed, surface 

 .generally convex, as seen from above rather 6longately triangular 

 with length about f greatest width at point opposite front of eyes. 

 Eye superior, close on upper profile, a little ellipsoid, placed about 

 last third in head length measured to hind occipital process, and 

 •edges without eyelid, free. Mouth inferiorly anterior, with broad 

 rounded disk. Upper jaw retractile, with a series of 8 slender hooked 

 compressed bifid teeth, each with tips of bifurcations worn in 

 appearance as if somewhat truncate, and inner branch larger. Man- 

 dible with a series of 12 similar teeth. Teeth medianly in both jaws 

 larger, and lateral ones smallest. Inner buccal folds broad. Lips 




272 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr, 



very broad, forming large buccal disk, and their lower surfaces with: 

 many papillae, most distinct and raised where they border jaws. 

 Outer edge of disk formed of conic fleshy barbel extending from 

 hind end of maxillary, and its length about equals eye length. Nos- 

 trils large, together, both with elevated coextensive cutaneous 

 rims, fall about last fourth in snout length, closer together than 

 interorbital width, and placed in- smooth area nearly as large in 

 extent as eye. Interorbital moderate, level. Occipital process 

 nearly an equilateral triangle, extends about half way to dorsal 

 origin. 



'^/itt, 





Y\%. 17. — Stoneiella Icopardus Fowler. (Typo.) 



Gill-opening small, oblique, before pectoral base above, and its 

 extent opposite and equal to eye in length. Isthnuis very broad, 

 level. 



Body remarkable for its spinescent armature. Upper surface of 

 head with small close?-set sharp prickles or spines, including occipital 

 process, opercle, and shoulder-girdle above pectoral base. Cluster 

 of 12 depressiblc slender sliarjvpointed s]iin(>s on preopercle, last 

 movable. Lower surface of heatl, breast, belly region around anal 

 base, and along lower sides naked. Four lateral lengthwise series 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 278- 



of posteriorly dirpctod spines, and short fifth series on lower side of 

 caudal peduncle and caudal base. Each of these spines in length- 

 wise series well separated, with one or more smaller or minute spines 

 scattered around basally. Thus indications of lateral plates, ill- 

 defined at first, though well-marked on caudal peduncle and caudal 

 base, corresponding to squamation, are formed. Anteriorly lower 

 series of lengthwise spines originates on bony plate over base of 

 pectoral spine. Predorsal and postdorsal regions of back with, 

 minute spines, also lower surface of caudal peduncle and lower 

 surface of trunk above anal base. All spines of fins and sides of 

 larger rays spinescent, latter condition varying from quite large 

 strong denticles on front of pectoral spine to those very minute on. 

 fin-rays. L. 1. not evidently developed, median series of lateral 

 spines in no way differing from others. ^ 



Dorsal origin about midway between that of adipose fin and 

 snout tip, spine rather slender and with somewhat flexible tapering, 

 tip, fin quite large and all rays well developed. Adipose fin mod- 

 erately large, spinescent, inserted little nearer last dorsal ray base 

 than caudal base, fin about | an eye-diameter in length. Anal 

 inserted just after dorsal base, with slender and rather flexible spine, 

 first branched ray longest and extends back about f to caudal base. 

 Caudal large, emarginate, both outer rays enlarged and spinescent.: 

 Pectoral low, with very strong spine, reaches f to ventral origin. 

 Latter inserted below first branched dorsal ray base, with strong 

 spine rather flexible at tip, fin extends beyond anal base slightly, or 

 about f to caudal base. Vent with short tube, placed at last f in 

 space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol very dark or dusky generally, especially above. 

 Everywhere more or less with large close-set blackish blotches,. 

 spots, or short vermiculatioiLs, on upper surface more or less obscured 

 by bristles or spines, though below,,very conspicuous. General tint 

 of lower surface much paler than back, thus adding to contrast. 

 All fins with similar Ijlack blotches, the pale intervening areas often 

 forming more or less into narrow transverse pale lines. Caudal 

 with lobes distally somewhat chestnut-brown above and below, 

 median portion of fin, however, with large blackish blotches like on 

 trunk and narrow pale areas intervening. Iris slaty, also disk. 

 Teeth worn brownish at tips, whitish basally. 



Length 92 mm. 



Type, No. 39,345, A. N. S. P. Rupmiuni River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Only the type known. 



(AtoTzapSwi^ leopard; with reference to the spots.) 



Plecostomus plecostomus (Linnaeus). 



One example, 235 mm. 



Pseudancistrus nigrescens Eigenmann. 



Two examples, 112 and 175 mm. The smaller example agrees 

 Avith Eigenmann's figure of the head, though the larger has the 

 posterior edge of the occipital plate triangular. Both have numerous 

 lateral bristles around front edge of head, except about snout tip, 

 though in the larger example they are much longer, slender, and 

 altogether better developed. Mandibular ramus IJ to If in inter- 

 orbital. Dorsal spine equals or less than combined eye and snout 

 length. Pectoral extends back about opposite first third in ventral. 

 Color uniform dark brown above, belly pale. Trunk with brassy 

 tinge in places. 



Ancistrus hoplogenys (Gtinther). 



Two examples, 120 and 178 mm. Both show body, especially 

 below, and fins with minute white spots. 



LORICARIIN^. 



Loricariichthys acutus (Valenciennes). 



One example, 210 mm. long (caudal tip damaged). This species 

 has been described by Eigenmann as Loricaria microdon. My 

 example does not appear to differ from L. acutus as described by 

 Regan. 



Loricariichthys griseus (Eigenmann). 



One example 167 mm. 



Harttia platy stoma (Gunther). 



One example 145 mm. 

 Sturisoma monopelte sp. nov. Fig. 18. ^ 



Head 5|; depth 9|; D. I, 7; A. I, 5; P. I, 6; V. I, 5; osseous 

 plates 35 in lateral series; 24 postdorsal bony plates; head width 

 If in its length, measured to hind edge of occipital process; head 

 depth 3; snout If; eye 6|; mouth-width 4; interorbital 4|; snout 

 tip to front mouth edge 2j; pectoral If; ventral If; anal 1^; least 

 width of caudal peduncle 6|. 



Body greatly elongate and depressed, slender in profile, dorsal 

 and ventral surfaces generally convex. Very slight median predorsal 

 depression, with slight ridge each side. From upper edge of eye 

 obsolete keel extends back to join median lateral keel at fifteenth 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



275 



plate of latter, junction indicated by slight angle. Median lateral 

 keel at first obsolete, though after dorsal very distinct and con- 

 tinued as lateral flange to caudal. Lower lateral keel extends from 

 plate of shoulder-girdle back to twenty-second plate of median 

 (then upper) keel, where it merges without an interruption. Before 

 each ventral origin slight lengthwise keel. Caudal peduncle ex- 

 tremely long, depressed, broad, and tapering. 



Head rather small, sides convexly approximated above, lower 

 surface broadly convex. Snout greatly acuminate, narrowed tip 

 produced, width at front of eyes If its length. Eye small, a little 

 ellipsoid, high, slightly posterior to last third in head measured to 

 hind edge of occipital plate. Edges of eyes free, without membrane 



Fig. 18. — Slurisoma monopelte Fowler. (Type.) 



covering over. Mouth width broad, forms rather large rounded 

 disk, and transverse mouth cleft would form about last third in 

 snout length. Lips very broad and greatly papillose, and papilljB 

 bordering jaws much larger. About 66 small, simple, slender, 

 clavated, and slightly crooked teeth in transverse series in upper 

 jaw, and about same number of similar ones, more bent over at 

 ends, in lower jaw. Ramus of mandible slightly less than eye. 

 Upper jaw with 3 fleshy papuliferous flaps inside, median much larger. 

 Inner buccal fold very broad and free. Externally each side of disk 

 forms small pointed barbel. Nostrils in moderate-sized depression, 

 together, formed just before front orbital edges, anterior with broad 

 cutaneous flap mostly concealing posterior. Interorbital generally 

 level, with lengthwise shallow depression each side of median line. 

 19 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Gill-opening small, restricted, lateral, extends forward about 

 opposite first | in eye and extends behind latter nearly half an 

 eye-diameter. 



Scales, or scutes, all minutely spineseent. Predorsal region with 

 4 scutes- to occipital. Five series of scutes transversely across 

 belly, each outer series of larger ones. A single scute interposes 

 each side medianly between anal plate and preanal plate. 



Dorsal origin about first third in space between snout tip and 

 caudal base, spine ends in filament extending back slightly less than 

 half way to caudal base. Anal inserted well behind dorsal base or 

 about midway between snout tip and thirty-second lateral scute, 

 flexible spine, reaches 3f to caudal base. Caudal small, upper and 

 lower, or outer, rays produced in filaments, latter at least f rest of 

 body length, and fin deeply forked. Pectoral with flexible spine 

 extends slightly beyond ventral origin. Ventral inserted opposite 

 dorsal origin, spine flexible, extends back slightly beyond anal origin. 

 Vent midway in space between ventral and anal origins. 



Color in alcohol brownish above, with dark lateral streak or ill- 

 defined band extending along each side of snout from tip, including 

 eye, embracing region of obsolete upper and distinct median lateral 

 keels and then continued externally along edge of caudal peduncle 

 where, however, narrow. Lower surface of snout dusky. Entire 

 lower surface of head and body otherwise pale brownish to whitish. 

 Fins all pale, dorsal obscurely mottled or blotched with pale dusky. 

 Caudal with edges above and below, and filaments pale, median 

 rays whitish, and posterior inner portions of both lobes more or less 

 mottled dusky, that of lower nearly blackish and mostly uniform. 

 Iris slaty. 



Length 265 mm. 



Type, No. 39,346, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



This species is closely related to Sturisoma rostrata (Spix) and, 

 as compared with the specimen Cope recorded from the Peruvian 

 Amazon as Loricaria rostrata,-^ differs in the coloration. Cope's 

 example also shows the fins less produced and two plates each side 

 imposing between plate containing vent and preanal. 



(i)Ji'ry()<^^ one; tt^/'ttj, shield; with reference to the single interposed 

 shield between ventral and anal plate.) 



='Prof. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., XVII, 1878, p. 681. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



BELONID^. 

 Potomarrhaphis guianensis (Schomburgk). 

 Two examples, 107 and 172 mm. 



SCI^NIDiE. 

 Plagioscion squamosissimus Meckel. 



One example, 295 mm. 



Pachypops furcraeus (Lac6pede). 



One example 148 mm, 



CICHLID^. 

 Acaropsis nasa (Heckel). 



Two examples, 60 and 110 mm. 



.ffiquidens tetranemus (Heckel). 



One example 80 mm. 



Cichlasoma severum (Heckel). 



Two examples, 125 and 160 mm. 



Mesonauta festivius (Heckel). 



Two examples, 115 and 108 mm. 

 Geophagus surinamensis (Bloch). 



Two examples, 170 and 112 mm. 



Geophagus jurupari Heckel. 



Two examples, 150 and 110 mm. 



Apistogramma ortmanni rupununi subsp. nov. Fig. 19. 



Head2|; depth 2f; D. XV, 7; A. Ill, 6, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 5; scales 

 22 in median lateral series to caudal base and 6 more on latter; 

 scales 12 in upper branch of 1. 1.; 4 scales posteriorly in lower branch 

 of 1. 1.; 3 scales between spinous dorsal origin and 1. 1.; about 8 

 scales transversely between origins of rayed dorsal and anal; 9 

 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput 

 about 1|; snout 3; eye 3|; maxillary 3|; interorbital 4; mandible 

 2^; last dorsal spine 2; third dorsal ray If; third anal spine 2^; 

 third anal ray 1*; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^^; caudal 1; 

 pectoral \\; ventral spine 2|; ventral fin l\. 



Body rather elongately ovoid, well compressed, profiles similar, 

 and deepest midway in length of depressed pectoral, edges all convex. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about f its least depth. 



Head large, compressed, both profiles convex, upper more inclined, 

 and nearly flattened sides slightly converging above, so that lower 

 surface more broadly convex. Snout moderate, convex over surface 




278 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC.'UJEMY OF 



[Apr., 



and in profile, basaj Avidtli about f its length. Eye large, rounded, 

 superior, its centre falling slightly before middle in length of head, 

 and eyelids or edge free. Pupil circular, rather large. Mouth 

 rather wide, small, or with short slightly curved and nearly horizontal 

 commissure. Muzzle moderate, not especially protruded, and jaws 

 equal. Premaxillary protractile. Maxillary rather small, extends 

 well back towards eye beyond posterior nostril, though not quite 

 to eye, well inclined and curved down below lower lip. Lips rather 

 fleshy, form rather broad, free fold along each jaw edge. Jaws with 

 villiform and nearly uniform teeth, arranged in band in each. Appar- 



Fig. 19. — Apistogiytnnua ortmnnni rupumini Fowler. (Type.) 



ently no other teeth. Buccal folds inside mouth moderately wide. 

 Tongue depressed, slightly pointed, and free around front edge. 

 Mandible rather shallow, rami a little elevated inside mouth pos- 

 teriorly, and surface convex. Nostrils small, anterior larger, about 

 last third in snout length, and posterior inconspicuous, superior, and 

 slightly before eye front, also slightly nearer together than outer 

 pair. Interorbital convex. Hind preopercle edge nearly straight, 

 slightly inclined backward. Membrane along hind edge of gill- 

 opening moderate. 



Gill-opening extends forward about last | or nearly opposite hind 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



eye edge. Rakers 1+4, short broad fleshy, or rather flexible, 

 tubercles, about 4 in gill-filaments. Latter 2 in eye. Suprapharyn- 

 geal pad at epibranchial of first gill-arch well developed. No pseudo- 

 branchiae. Isthmus convex, mostly concealed bj'' broad branchioste- 

 gal membrane. Branchiostegals slender, outer much longer. 



Scales large, well exposed, finely ctenoid, arranged in lengthwise 

 • series, and slightly smaller on breast than elsewhere on trunk. Fins 

 scaleless, except caudal base, and latter covered with mam^ small 

 scales. Head largely scaly. Cheek with 3 rows of scales. Occipital 

 scales extend forward to middle of interorbital. Opercles and 

 subopercles scab'. Head otherwise naked. No axillary scaly flaps. 

 Pores on preopercle, lower cheek, suborbitals, muzzle, and inter- 

 orbital small and in moderate number. L. 1. interrupted, or of two 

 divisions, upper longer, at first 3 scales from spinous dorsal origin 

 but soon separated from spinous dorsal base by one scale, and in 

 posterior portion of its extent by only half a scale. Lower or pos- 

 terior division of 1. 1. median along caudal peduncle, with tubes only 

 over 4 scales, being preceded by 3 punctures on as many scales, and 

 no tubes or punctures, continued posteriorly, or on caudal base. 

 Tubes all simple, well exposed, or extend whole extent of each scale 

 exposure. 



Spinous dorsal inserted nearer snout tip in vertical than "spinous 

 anal origin, graduated up from first or shortest to fourth, after which 

 more or less subequally long to posterior ones, which longest. Edge 

 of spinous dorsal deeply notched, and edge of each membrane forms 

 produced longer free point. Rayed dorsal with posterior median 

 rays longest, form a produced point, begins about opposite of origin 

 of lower 1. 1., and edge entire. Spinous anal be'gins about opposite 

 end of upper branch of 1. 1., spines graduated to third or longest, 

 edge of fin with cutaneous points similar to those of spinous dorsal. 

 Rayed anal similar to raj^ed dorsal, its origin also about opposite. 

 Caudal with hind margin nearly truncate or very slightly convex, 

 fin elongate in contour. Pectoral broad, median upper rays longest 

 and depressed fin extends back about opposite vent. Ventral 

 inserted close after pectoral base, spine extends | to anal origin, while 

 tip of first ray reaches rayed anal origin. Yent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely deep brownish on back, becoming paler 

 onh' on lower or under surface of head and abdomen. General tint 

 at present with more or less swarthy appearance. Along side of 

 snout, from its tip, then continued behind eye in straight horizontal 

 line, a black streak or line, and not continued behind to caudal 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



peduncle, but terminating above first two tubes of lower branch of 

 1. I. Slightly posterior from lower eye edge a dusky streak extends 

 obliquely across cheek to subopercle. Suborbital chain also marked 

 by broad-angled dusky streak, its point of divergence at beginning 

 of oblique dark streak extending across cheek. Several irregular 

 broken streaks or blotches of brownish on forehead. About eight 

 broad obscure transverse bands, at present ill-defined and some- 

 what irregular as to boundaries. From pectoral base they appear 

 still more obsolete as a lengthwise dusky shade, hardly a streak 

 or band, extending horizontally back toward caudal base. Third 

 obsolete transverse band, between upper 1. 1. and median lateral 

 streak, set out as large blackish blotch. Caudal base with 

 large blackish blotch, about equal to eye in size. Iris slaty. 

 Fins all with dull dusky-gray ground-color, and only ventral 

 slightly paler. Rayed dorsal with eight or nine vertical pale 

 dusky streaks, of same general tint of spinous portion of fin, 

 and extending mostly on basal and posterior portion of fin. 

 Rayed anal with similar streaks, about six in number. Caudal with 

 nine similar streaks, though first two interrupted by basal spot, and 

 all streaks parallel and slightly inclined forward. Other fins un- 

 marked. 



Length 54 mm. 



Type, No. 39,347, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Another example, No. 39,348, A. N. S. P., paratype, same data. 

 Head 2|; depth 2|; D. XIV, 6; A. Ill, 6, i; scales 21 in median 

 lateral series to caudal base, and 6 more on latter; 14 scales in upper 

 branch of 1. 1.; 5 scales in lower branch of 1. 1.; 9 predorsal scales; 

 snout 3yV in head; eye 3^; maxillary 3; interorbital 3|; length 

 50 mm. 



This species is closely related to Apistogramma ortmmmi (Eigen- 

 mann), though differs in coloration, the black superiorly median 

 lateral blotch not being present in that species according to the 

 figure and description. -- 



(Named for the Rupununi River.) 



Cichla ocellaris Schneider. 



Two examples, 183 and 105 mm. 



Crenicichla lugubris Heckel. 



One example 285 mm. 



Crenicicllla alta Eigenmann. 



One example 163 mm. 



22 Mem. Carnegie Mus., V, 1912, p. 506, PI. 68, fig. 1. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



Crenicichla pterogramma sp. nov. Fig. 20. 



Head 2f ; depth 4|; D. XVIII, iii, 11, i; A. Ill, 10, i; P. i, 15; 

 V. I, 5; scales about 60 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 

 about 6 distinct on latter; 23 scales in upper branch of 1. 1.; 11 scales 

 in lower branch of 1. 1. before caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 

 8 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and 1. 1.; 4 scales between 

 origin of rayed dorsal and upper 1. 1.; 12 scales in vertical series 

 between origin of spinous anal and upper 11.; 19 predorsal scales; 

 head width 2j in its length; head depth at occiput 2; mandil^le 2; 

 last dorsal spine 3; seventh branched dorsal ray If; third anal 

 spine 4; seventh branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3; caudal 1; pectoral If; ventral 2; ventral spine 3f ; snout 3| in 

 head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 5; maxillary 2f; inter- 

 orbital 4. 



Fig. 20. — Crenicichla -pterogramma Fowler. (Type.) 



Body elongate, compressed, rather slender, deepest about midway 

 in depressed ventral length, and edges all convex. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, length about f its least depth. 



Head large, compressed, conic, upper profile straight from snout 

 tip nearly to ^spinous dorsal origin, lower profile similar, convex sides 

 not constricted above or below. Snout broad, rather depressed, 

 surface convex, length about | its basal width. Ej-e large, rounded, 

 close to upper profile, its centre near first f in head length as measured 

 from snout tip. Eyelids free, not adipose-like. Pupil large, circular. 

 Mouth large, wide, with horizontal commissure. Premaxillary 

 protractile. ]\Iaxillary rather large, reaches back little inclined till 

 slightly past front of eye, though not quite opposite front edge of 

 pupil, received below preorbital. Lips fleshy, rather broadly folded 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



above and narrow below. Jaws with broad bands of small or fine 

 uniform conic teeth, largely depressible and directed inwards. No 

 other teeth. Buccal folds inside mouth moderately broad. Tongue 

 depressed, attenuate, and free in front. Mandible broad, shallow, 

 well produced in front beyond snout tip, rami not elevated inside 

 mouth, though outer lip forms broad fleshy pocket to receive upper 

 at rictus. Nostrils simple, lateral or on side of snout about last 

 third its length. Interorbital level. Preopercle with entire edge, 

 slightly inclined forward above. Opercle ends in rather pointed 

 cutaneous flap above. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite last f in eye. Rakers, 

 1 + 12 asperous short broad tubercles, about 3 in gill-filaments. 

 Latter about If in eye. Isthmus narrow, constricted, surface convex. 

 Branchiostegals slender, outer longer, and membrane rather broad 

 across isthmus. 



Scales large, well exposed, smooth on head, predorsal region, and 

 region embracing bases of dorsal fin, though this greatly narrowing 

 posteriorly, also on breast and belly, other regions with finely ctenoid 

 scales. Fins scaleless, except caudal base, and on latter scales 

 smooth and quite small. Cheek with 9 series of scales. Occipital 

 scales extend forward only to hind edge of interorbital. Opercles 

 and subopercles scaly. [Head otherwise naked, though with a number 

 of mucous pores, especially above. L. 1. interrupted, or in two 

 divisions, upper much longer, scales larger than those surrounding. 

 Upper division of 1. 1. concurrent with dorsal profile, replaced below 

 by median lower division. Tubes simple, and all well developed or 

 extending completely across exposure of scale. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between snout tip and 

 seventeenth dorsal spine base, first spine shortest and all others 

 graduated up to twelfth and then subequal, though last spine longest. 

 Edge of spinous dorsal with membranes ending in cutaneous points, 

 free and projecting above tips of spines. Rayed dorsal higher than 

 spinous portion, rays graduated to fourth and fifth branched, which 

 longest and produced in filamentous point, edge of fin entire. Spi- 

 nous anal inserted slightly before second simple dorsal ray base, 

 spines graduated up to third which longest, and edge of fin with 

 cutaneous points like spinous dorsal. Rayed anal with seventh 

 ])ranched anal ray longest, preceding rays subequally shorter, and 

 edge of fin entire. Caudal rounded, elongate. Pectoral broadly 

 expanded, median rays longest, and fin depressed extends slightly 

 less than half way to anal origin. Ventral inserted close behind anal 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



base, spine pungent or about | length of fin, and latter depressed 

 half-way to anal. Vent falls about last | in space between depressed 

 ventral tip and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, paler below. A dark or 

 dusky lateral streak extends from hind eye edge back to median 

 caudal base, though in position parallel and just above posterior 

 or lower branch of 1. 1. At its termination on caudal base a black 

 pale-edged ocellus not much larger than pupil, and another on 

 fourth to sixth scales of 1. 1. about equal to eye in size. Vertical fins 

 grayish, dorsal paler basall'y, and subterminally lengthwise pale or 

 whitish streak its entire length and extending back to point of rayed 

 fin. Last dorsal rays with about four transverse whitish streaks. 

 Anals with lower edge dusky, and upper posterior half of fin with 

 about six whitish transverse streaks. Caudal grayish, lower edge 

 darker, and with about six transverse whitish streaks, ^^entral 

 and anal whitish. Iris slaty. Lower surface of head pale. 



Length 162 mm. 



Type, No. 39,349, A. N. S. P. Rupununi River, British Guiana. 

 J. Ogilvie. 



Only the type known. Apparently related to Crenicichla saxatilis 

 (Linnaeus) and C alia Eigenmann, though differs at once in coloration. 



(Ihspo'^, fin; YpaiJ-irfi, line; with reference to the pale submarginal 

 streak on the dorsal fins.) 



TETRODONTID^. 



ColomeSUS psittacus (Schneider). 



Three small examples. 



Achirus lineatus (Linnaeus). 



Two examples. 



SOLEID^. 



Faunal Works. 



Bleeker, Pieter. 1S62. Descriptions de quelques Especes Nouvelles de 

 Silures de Suriname. Verdag. Med. Kon. Ak. Wet., Amsterdam, XIV, 1862, 

 pp. 371-389. 



1863. Sur quelques Genres Nouveaux du Groupe des Doras. Ned. Tijds. 



Dierk., Amsterdam, I, 1863, pp. 10-18. 



1864. Description des especes de Silures de Suriname conservees aux 



musees de Leide et d 'Amsterdam. Nat. Verhandel. Holl. Maatsch. Wetensch., 

 Haarlem, (2), XX, 1864, pp. 1-104, Pis. 1-16. 



1866. Description d'une espece inedite de Stolephorus de Suriname. 



Ned. Tijds. Dierk. Amsterdam, III, 1866, pp. 178-180. 



Blos-ser, Christian B. 1909. Reports on the Expedition to British Guiana 

 of the Indiana University and the Carnegie Museum, 1908. Report No. 3. 

 The Marine Fishes. Ann. Carnegie Mus., VI, No. 1, 1909, pp. 295-300. 



Bryant, William. 1786. Account of an Electrical Eel, or the Torpedo of 

 Surinam. Trans. Amcr. Philos. Soc., Phila., II, 1786, pp. 16()-169. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Dalton, Henry G. 1855. The History of British Guiana, II, 1855, Fishes, 



pp. 336-359. 

 DuRBiN, Marion Lee. 1909. Reports on the Expedition to British Guiana 



of the Indiana University and the Carnegie Museum, 1908. Report No. 2. 



A new genus and twelve new species of Tetragonopterid Characins. Ann. 



Carnegie Mus., VI, No. 1, 1909, pp. 55-72. 

 EiGENMANN, Carl H. 1909. Reports on the Expedition to British Guiana 



of the Indiana University and the Carnegie Museum, 1908. Report No. 1. 



Some new genera and species of Fishes from British Guiana. Ann. Carnegie 



Mus., VI, No. 1, 1909, pp. 4-54. 



1912. The Freshwater Fishes of British Guiana, inchiding a study of 



the Ecological grouping of species, and the relation of the Fauna of the 

 Plateau to that of the Lowlands. Mem. Carnegie Mus., V, 1912, pp. 1-578, 

 PR 1-103. 



Flagg, Henry CoClins. 1786. Observations on the Numb Fish or Torporific 

 Eel. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., II, 1786, pp. 170-173. 



GoELDi, Emilio a. 1898. Primeira contribuigao paro o conhecimento dos 

 Peixes do valle do Amazonas e das Gu5'anas. Estudos ichthyologicos dos 

 annos 1894-1898. Boletim Mus. Paraense, II, 1898, pp. 443-488, 1 PI. 



GtJNTHER, Albert. 1863. On new Species of Fishes from Essequibo. Ann. 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., London, (3), XII, 1863, pp. 441-443. 



1868. Descriptions of Freshwater Fishes from Surinam and Brazil. 



Proc.^Zool. Soc., London, 1868, pp. 229-^247, figs. 1-8 in text. Pis. 20-22. 



1872. On a new Genus of Characinoid Fishes from Demerara. L.c, 



1872, p. 146. 



Hancock, John. 1828. Notes on some species of Fishes and Reptiles, from 

 Demerara, presented to the Zoological Society by John Hancock, Esq. 

 Zool. Journ., IV, 1828, pp. 240-247. 



MtJLLER, JoHANES, and Troschel, Franz Hermann. 1848. Reisen in Britiseh- 

 Guiana in den Jahren 1840-44. Im Auftrag Sr. Majestat des Kcinigs von 

 Preussen. Ausgefuhrt von Richard Schomburgk. Versuch einer Fauna und 

 Flora von Britisch-Guiana. Fische, III, 1848, pp. 618-644. 



Pellegrin, Jacques. 1902. Cichlide nouveau de la Guyane frangaise. Bull. 

 Mus. Hist. Va^, Paris, VIII, 1902, pp. 417-419. 



1908. Les Poissons d'eau douce de la Guvane frangaise. Revue Coloniale, 



1908, pp. 577-.591. [Not consulted.] 



PoPTA, C.\NNA M. L. 1901. Tetragonopterus longipinnis, n. sp. Notes Leijd. 



Mus., XXIII, 1901, pp. 85-90, fig. 

 Quelch, John Jcseph. 1894. Fish and Fishing in British Guiana. Bull. 



U. S. F. Com., XIII, 1893 (1894), pp. 237-240. 

 Regan, C. T.\te. 1908. Description of a new Cichlid Fish of the Genus 



Heterogramma from Demerara. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., London, (8), I, 



1908, pp. 370-371, fig. in text. 

 ScHOMBijRGK, RoBERT. 1841. Fishcs of British Guiana. Part I. Nat. 



Library, Jardine, XXXIX, 1841, pp. 81-263, Pis. 1-30. 



1843. Fishes of British Guiana. Part II, L.c., XL, 1843, pp. 



131-211, Pis. 1-30.' 



Steindachner, Franz. 1909. LTeber Ccenotropus punctatus M. Tr. nach Exem- 



plaren aus Surinam. Anz. K. Ak. Wiss., W'ien, XXIV, 1909, . [Not 



con.sulted.] 

 1910. Notiz tibor einige neue Characinenarten aus dem Orinoco und 



deni obercn Surinam. L.c, XVII, 1910, pp. 26.5-270. 

 Traill, Thomas Stewart. 1S32. Description of a Silurus, known in Demerara 



by the name of (iilbacko, more properly Geelbuik. Mem. Wcrnerian N. 



Hist. Soc, VI, 1832, pp. 377-380, PI. 6, fig. 1. 

 V'aillant, Leon. 1898. Contribution a I'ctude de la faune ichthyologique 



de la Guyane. Notes Leyden Mus., XX, 1898 pp. 1-20, 1 fig. 

 — — - 1899. Note preliminaire sur les collections ichthyologiques recueillies 



par M. Geay en 1S97 et 1898 dans la Guyane francaise et le Conteste franco- 



bresilien. Bull. Mus. H. Nat., Paris, V, 1899, pp. 154-156. 

 — — 1900. Contribution a I'etude de la faune ichthyologique de la Guayane 



frangaise et du Conteste franco-bresilien. Arch. .Mus. H. Nat., Pai'is, (4), 

 • II, 1900, pp. 123-136, PI. 7. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



CONTKIBUTION TO THE ANATOMY OF THE ILYSIID^. 

 BY JOSEPH C. THOMPSON, SURGEON, U. S. N. 



Three species of this family have recently been the subjects of an 

 autopsy. A few additional secondary characters have been learned, 

 but none were of the primary importance of those already known, 

 and which have been employed by Mr. Boulenger to maintain the 

 group as a family. 



The salient character found to be common to the three species 

 studied, was the comparatively large diameter of the segment of the 

 posterior vena cava that is just caudad to the heart. A generic 

 character of rather an unusual nature was found in Cylindrophis, 

 consisting of a bridge of connective tissue in the floor of the mouth, 

 that extends between the sheath of the tongue and the lip. 



Ilysia scytale (Linnseus). 



This species has been made the subject of several pages by Dr. 

 Beddard.^ The characters of an example just studied conform with 

 those touched on in the article, with the exception of the position 

 of the liver. By Dr. Beddard, this organ was found to commence 

 "just at the heart as in Vipers. " In the present example the anterior 

 tip of the liver Avas 37 mm. posterior to the apex of the heart. 



A comparison of the measurements brings out the point that the 

 only difference between the two specimens is in the position of the 

 liver. 



Specimen. — 



Collection of Brit. Museum 



Dr. Beddard. Exchange Series. 



Male. Female. 



Sex. mm. Percent. mm. Percent. 



Total length 495 100 480 100 



Apex of heart 115 23.2 125 26 



Liver, anterior tip 115 23.2 162 33.7 



Liver, posterior end 293 59 295 61.5 



Gall-bladder 356 71.8. 345 72 



Kidney, right: 



Length 23 20 



Distance from cloaca 21 30 



Kidney, left: 



Length 21 15 



Distance from cloaca 11 21 



1 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1906, vol. I, p. 31. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Specimen. — Brit. Mus. Ex. No. 19a. South America. Female: 

 total length 480, tail 20 mm. 



Squamation. — The number of §cale rows, the sequence in which 

 they are added, suppressed, and the gastrostege level at which these 

 changes occur, are as follows: 



19 rows, VI row added, right 55th, left 53d gastrostege, making: 

 21 rows, V row ends, right 206th, left 202d gastrostege, leaving: 

 19 rows, VI row ends, right 220th, left 221st gastrostege, leaving: 

 17 rows, which are continued to the vent. 



Gastrosteges 236; anal divided; urosteges 12 and a terminal 

 scute, the first and second paired, the remainder entire. Frontal 

 barely touching the occipital; supraocular larger than the parietal; 

 supralabials 5, the third and fourth touching the ocular shield; 

 infralabials 5, the first pair the deepest and in contact behind the 

 long mental; a single pair of large geneials which are not in contact; 

 three azygos gular shields. 



Ajiatomy. — The tracheal cartilages terminate at the level of the 

 61st gastrostege. The tracheal memhrane is narrow and is not lined 

 with pulmonary tissue. The right lung extends from the 57th to 

 the 135th gastrostege; it is 152 mm. long, and lined throughout with 

 pulmonary tissue. There is a small free apex, 2.5 mm. long, that 

 extends to the 57th gastrostege; it is in relation with the right side 

 of the trachea, and the lumen is continuous with that of the lung. 

 The lung terminates in a blunt end which is 3.3 mm. in diameter. 

 The left lung, 5.5 mm. long, extends from the 58th to the 61st gastro- 

 stege. It is in relation above with the end of the trachea and the 

 right lung, to the right with the apex of the heart and the inferior 

 vena cava, below with the ventral wall of the pleural cavity, and to 

 the left with the stomach. It is lined with pulmonary tissue through- 

 out. The left bronchus opens from the ventral side of the trachea 

 opposite the 60th gastrostege. It enters the lung at the junction 

 of the middle and the posterior one-third. The liver in this species 

 and in Cylindrophis rufus is peculiar in that macroscopically it 

 appears finely reticulate, with lines composed of minute black dots. 



The anterior portion of the liver from the tip to the level of the 

 126th gastrostege is composed of the left lobe, along the right side 

 of which courses the large inferior vena cava: At the 126th gastro- 

 stege this vessel begins to furrow the ventral and left side of the 

 liver and divides the organ into right and left lobes. These lobes 

 continue posteriorly; the right, which is 6 mm. the longer, ter- 

 minating at the 147th, and the left at the 144th gastrostege. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



The coiled portion of the ileum terminates at the 209th gastro- 

 stege; the remainder, 9 mm. in length, is straight. 



The ileo-ccecal valve is at the 214th gastrostege. 



The ccecal pouch, 8.5 mm. long, extends from the 214th to the 

 209th gastrostege; it lies between the right oviduct and the terminal 

 straight portion of the ilemn. 



The junction of the ileum and csecum, and the csecal pouch are 

 subject to a wide range of variation in different species, and are 

 worthy of being recorded in detail. 



The posterior vena cava is anomalous owing to its large diameter, 

 which is 2.5 mm. Upon opening the coelum, just caudad to the 

 heart, this vessel appears as if it were the liver. The illusion is 

 increased as j ust posterior to the apex of the heart this vein is sharply 

 flexed towards the dorsal wall, and from below, this bend looks 

 exactly like the blunt tip of a liver. 



The external landmarks of the principal viscera in terms of gastro- 



steges are as follows: 



Per cent. 



Total number of gastrosteges 236 100 



Apex of heart 59 25 



Liver, anterior tip 78 33 



Liver, posterior end 7 147 62.2 



Gall-bladder, centre r 171 72.5 



Kidney, right, anterior tip 210 88.8 



Kidney, right, posterior end 220 93 



Kidney, left, anterior tip 216 91.5 



Kidney, left, posterior end 226 95.8 



The scale formula in this specimen is abnormal. It will be noted 

 that the first row to be added was the VI, and the first to be sup- 

 pressed was the V, and the next to be dropped was the VI. The 

 normal condition would have been for the VI to be the first sup- 

 pressed followed by the V. 



Over five hundred specimens of various species have recently been 

 investigated for this scale formula character. In the normal state, 

 when a certain scale row is added anteriorly and further along the 

 body begins to taper and a reduced count occurs, this reduced count 

 is regularly brought about by the suppression posteriorly of the same 

 scale row that was added. Where several rows are added and later 

 these are suppressed, the sequence of suppression is regularly in an 

 inverse order to that in which they appeared. 



The scale formula of a different specimen having 226 gastrosteges 

 was as follows : 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



19 rows, VI added, right 52d, left 52d gastrostege, making: 



21 rows, VI ends, right 199th, left 194th gastrostege, leaving: 



19 rows, which are continuous to the vent. 



CYLINDEOPHIS Wagler. 



Since the publication of the Catalogue of the Snakes in the British 

 Museum, there have been described two new^ species belonging to 

 the Ilysiidae. Both of these new forms are in the genus Cylindrophis, 

 the species of which may be distinguished as follows: 



I — Diameter of the eye about half its, distance from the nostril. 



Interocular width more than the length of the snout rufus. 



Interocular width equal to the length of the snout isolepis. 



II — Diameter of the eye one-third to one-fourth its distance from 

 the nostril. 

 A — Ventrals not twice as large as the contiguous scales. 



Scales in 23 rows opisthorhodus. 



Scales in 21 to 19 rows maculatus. 



B — ^ Ventrals nearly twice as large as the contiguous scales. 

 Scales in 21 rows lineatus. 



CylindropMs rufus (Laurenti). 



Specimen. — California Acad. Sci., No. 33,054. Sarawak, Borneo. 

 Male; total length 454, tail 11 mm. 



Squamation. — The number of scale-rows on the body, the sequence 

 in which they become suppressed, and the gastrostege level at which 

 they terminate are as follows: 



Neck:' 

 21 rows, IV row ends, right 8th, left 8th gastrostege, leaving: 



Body: 

 19 rows, V row ends, right 195th, left 190th gastrostege, leaving: 

 17 rows, which are continued to the vent. 



Gaetrosteges 202; anal divided; urosteges 6, second and fourth 

 divided, the remainder entire. Prsefrontal enters the eye; frontal 

 larger than the supraocular, larger than the parietal, longer than its 

 distance from the rostral; a small postocular; supralabials 6, the 

 third and fourth entering the eye; infralabials 6; a single pair of 

 geneials; one pair and two azygos gular shields. 



Anatomy. — The tracheal membrane is narrow and is not lined with 

 pulmonary tissue. The trachea terminates just caudad to the left 

 bronchus. The right intra pulmonary bronchus terminates at the 

 61st gastrostege. It appears as the narrowed continuation of the 



2 Cylindrophis isolepis Boulenger, 1896, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (6), vol. XVIII, 

 p. 62, Jampea, Id. 



C. opisthorhodus Boulenger, 1897, loc. cil., vol. XIX, p. 506, Lombok. 




1914,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



trachea. At first it is a gutter of bronchial tissue, from the edges of 

 which the ends of the cartilages project into the lumen of the lung 

 for a distance of .3 mm. 



The right lung extends from the 54th to the 114th gastrostege. 

 It is lined with pulmonary tissue to about the 100th gastrostege; 

 the terminal portion ends as a blunt and stout-walled anangious 

 air-sac. There is an apex, 2.5 mm. long, and adherent to the right 

 side of the trachea. The wall between the apex and the trachea is 

 formed of pulmonary tissue alone, there being no fibrous tissue 

 dividing the two structures. The lumen of the apex opens into the 

 lung by a simple tube that is pentagonal in shape and appears to be 

 a single air-cell that is deeper than the rest. 



The left lung, 6 mm. long, is lined with air-cells. The bronchus, 

 at the level of the 58th gastrostege, is a minute opening from the 

 ventral wall of the trachea. 



The left lobe of the liver extends from the 73d to the 11 1th gastro- 

 stege. At this point the posterior vena cav^ begins to furrow the 

 organ and to form the right lobe. Posteriorly the two lobes end 

 nearly at the same level, the right being but 1.5 mm. the longer. 



The gall-bladder is 6 mm. long. The cystic duct flows forward for 

 1.5 mm., and is composed of several tubes. The hepatic duct divides 

 into several branches; these anastomose with the cystic duct to form 

 a complex rete which is 7 mm. long and flows anteriorly to enter the 

 pancreas. The usual condition in serpents is for the hepatic and 

 cystic ducts to join posteriorly to the gall-bladder. 



The ileum is lined with fine longitudinal folds. The last loop is 

 at the 172d gastrostege; from this point it is nearly straight. At 

 the 176th gastrostege there is a sacculated dilatation 3 mm. long and 

 about one-half again the diameter of the gut. The walls are thin 

 and pellucid and the lining is smooth. 



The ciecum is lined with deep longitudinal plicse and there are no 

 transverse septal folds. The ileo-ccecal valve is at the 193d gastro- 

 stege. The csecal pouch is small, being 2.5 mm. long and of about 

 the same diameter; it lies dorsad to the ileum. 



The intercostal arteries are regular, being one for each space. 

 Each arises as a single artery that bifucates below the median line, 

 one fork entering on either side. 



The teeth are of moderate size; the maxillary bears 11, the palatine 

 6, the pterygoid 5, and the dentary bone 12 teeth. 



The floor of the mouth presents unusual conditions. The mandible 

 bends towards the median line, and the anterior tip of the dentary 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



bone protrudes through the floor of the mouth for a distance of 1 mm. 

 The tip is covered with pad of fibrous tissue and the mucous mem- 

 brane. The opening of the sheath of the tongue is 3 mm. from the 

 lip. A tough band of fibrous tissue, which is furrowed above for the 

 tongue, extends between this opening and the lip. This band is 

 attached anteriorly and posteriorly; beneath it is free and forms a 

 bridge under which an instrument may be passed. Between the 

 g,nterior attachment of this bridge and the tip of each dentary bone, 

 is an opening into a pouch which lies on either side of the median 

 line. Each pouch is covered above by the mucous membrane of 

 the mouth, and extends posteriorly to the level of the opening of the 

 sheath of the tongue. These pouches are in communication with 

 each other beneath the bridge of connective tissue that extends 

 from the opening of the sheath of the tongue to the lip. 



The external landmarks of the principal viscera in terms of gastro- 



steges are as follows: 



Per cent. 



Total number of gastrosteges . 202 100 



Apex of heart . 58 28.7 



Liver, anterior tip 73 36.2 



Liver, posterior end 128 63.5 



Gall-bladder, centre 138 68.5 



Testis, right, anterior tip 150 7-1.4 



Testis, right, posterior end 155 77.1 



Testis, left, anterior tip .' 162 80.2 



Testis, left, posterior end 167 82.8 



Kidney, right, anterior tip . 172 85 



Kidney, right, posterior end 186 92 



Kidney, left, anterior tip 176 87 



Kidney, left, posterior end 190 94 



In this species it will be noted that the scale-row count of 21 

 terminates well forward on the neck, and that the count of 19 per- 

 sists nearly to the vent. 



A uniform scale-row count over the entire body is found in two 

 types of serpents. It occurs in those with cylindrical bodies in which 

 there is no reduction of the diameter posteriorly and also in those 

 in which the body tapers posteriorly. The majority of those in the 

 latter category are in widely separated genera belonging to the 

 Colubridffi. These genera with tapering bodies have one character 

 in common and that is the scale-row count is regularly a low one, 

 being usually 17, 15, or 13 rows throughout. In these serpents the 

 scales accommodate themselves to the • narrowing of the ])ody by 

 becoming smaller. 



In the majority of species the tapering of the l)ody is associated 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



with a reduced scale count posteriorly. In each species this reduced 

 scale count is l^rought about by the loss of definite scale rows. The 

 discovery of this phenomenon was made by Mr. Ruthven while 

 studying the genus Thamnophis.^ 



Two additional characters bearing on this subject may be entered 

 into. If a series of one species is critically recorded, it will be found 

 that not onlj^ is there a definite sequence of suppression, but that a 

 given scale row terminates at about the same relative position on 

 the spinal colunm in each specimen. Also, that the suppression of 

 a scale row is in fairly definite relation to the posterior end of an 

 underlying organ. 



It is to be understood that these two characters are stated in 

 general terms. . Barring individual variation, for which no allowance 

 can be made, they will be found to hold with satisfactory constancy. 



Bibliography. — The original description of this species is contained 

 on page 71 of the Synopsin Reptilium by Laurenti, published in 1768. 

 In this work the serpent was named Anguis ruffa. Throughout 

 literature it has been referred to by the emended name of nifa. It 

 is probably only a question of time before some philologist will 

 insist that the current term be again emended and that the original 

 incongruous spelling be perpetuated. 

 Cylindrophis maculatus (Linnseus). 



Specimen. — California Acad. Sci., No. 16,890. Ceylon. 



Female; total length 330, tail 6.5 mm. 



Squamation. — The number of scale rows, the sequence in which 

 they are added or suppressed, and the gastrostege level at which 

 these changes occur may be thus presented: 



Neck: 

 19 rows, V row ends, right 10th, left 8th gastrostege, leaving: 



Body: 

 17 rows, IV row added, right 39th, left 49th gastrostege, making: 

 19 rows, IV row ends, right 182d, left 184th gastrostege, leaving: 

 17 rows, which are continued to the vent. 



Gastrosteges 194, in the middle of the Iwdy 3 mm. wide, adjacent 

 scale row 2.5 mm. ^vide; anal divided, urosteges 5, entire. Praefrontal 

 the largest shield; one small postocular; supralabials 6, the third 

 and the fourth entering the eye; infralabials 6; anterior geneials 

 large; one pair and two azygos gular shields. 



Anatomy. — The tracheal membrane is narrow and is not lined with 



» 1908, Bull. 61, U. S. National Museum. 

 20 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



air-cells. The right lung extends from the 58th to the 98th gastro- 

 stege and is lined throughout with respiratory tissue. The apex 

 is adherent at the trachea. The left lung is 5 mm. long and contains 

 air-cells; anteriorly it is narrow and posteriorly broad and truncate. 

 The left bronchus is at the 60th gastrostege and enters at the middle 

 of the lung. 



The liver begins at the 78th gastrostege. At the 91st gastrostege 

 there is an S-shaped kink in the organ, the recurrent limb of which 

 is 6 mm. long, and lies to the right and above the anterior portion. 

 The liver reaches to the 113th gastrostege; at this point the end 

 bends downward and forward for a distance of 3 mm. Whatever 

 may have been the cause of the kink in the liver, it apparently in no 

 way affected the right lung. The liver from the anterior tip to the 

 first bend in the kink lies to the left and below the lung; the recur- 

 rent limb of the kink is ventrad to the lung; the liver posterior to 

 the second bend in the kink lies to the right and below the lung. 

 In other words, the lung is perfectly straight and lies at first to the 

 right side, then above the kink, and finally to the left side of the 

 liver. A similar flexure of the liver has been observed in a female 

 Tropidonotus vibakari Boie, containing embryos that were nearly 

 mature. 



The (Esophagus at the 96th gastrostege makes a Z-shaped bend; 

 the recurrent limb of which is 4 m. long, and is directed forwards 

 and to the left. This bend is in the horizontal plane and is just 

 caudad to the S-shaped kink in the liver. 



The posterior vena cava is of large calibre; it has two kinks, one 

 just caudad to the left lung, and the other 8 mm. anterior to the 

 tip of the liver. 



Whether these kinks in the various organs are deformities or are 

 part of the displacement of the viscera during the latter weeks of 

 pregnancy is not certain. 



The ileo-ccecal valve is at the 182d gastrostege. The cacal pouch 

 is 6 mm. long and the apex is at the 177th gastrostege. It is of the 

 same diameter as the caecum and lies between the ileum and the 

 right ovary. 



The teeth are less in number than in C. rufus. The maxillary 

 bears 8, the palatine 7, the pterygoid 4, and the dentary bone 11 

 teeth. 



The floor of the mouth has the protruding tips of the maxillary 

 bones and the two pouches on either side of tlie median line quite 

 as described in C. rufus. 




191-1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



There are three embryos; these extend from the 118th to the 

 178th gastrosicge. The growth of the anterior one has been aborted, 

 evidently owing to pressure. The middle one has a yolk sac 25 mm. 

 long, on the dorsal and anterior surface of which is coiled the embryo. 

 The head is free, being beneath and anterior to the coils. The pre- 

 vailing condition is for the head to be in the centre of the coils, where 

 it is more protected. The total length of the embryo, when uncoiled, 

 is about 45 mm. The tail measures 2 mm., which is longer propor- 

 tionately than in the adult. Each rudimentary hind limb is free; 

 it is held at right angles to the body and measures .5 mm. in length. 

 The yolk sac of the posterior embryo measures 36 mm. 



A Avell-nourished fat-hody lies between the bend in the oesophagus 

 and the first embryo. 



The external landmarks of the principal viscera in terms of gastro- 



steges are as follows: 



Per cent. 



Total number of gastrosteges 194 100 



Apex of heart 60 30.9 



Liver, anterior tip 78 40.2 



Liver, posterior end 113 58.2 



Gall-bladder, centre _ 116 59.8 



Kidney, right, anterior tip 172 88.7 



Kidney, right, posterior end 181 93.1 



Kidney, left, anterior tip 178 90.8 



Kidney, left, posterior end 185 95.2 



In these three species a comparison of the position of the viscera 



in terms of percentage down the spinal column may be presented: 



Species. — 



Ilysia Cylindrophis Cylindrophis 

 scytale. rufus. maculatus. 



Sex. Female. Male. Female. 



Spinal column 100 100 100 



Apex of heart 25 29 31 



Liver, anterior tip 33 36 40 



Liver, posterior end 62 63 58 



Gall-bladder 72 68 60 



Kidney, right, tip 89 85 89 



Kidney, right, end :. 93 92 93 



Kidney, left, tip 91 87 91 



Kidney, left, end 96 94 95 



To obtain this data the number of the gastrostege underlying a 

 given anatomical point, counting from the first shield in the neck, 

 is noted. This number is then divided by the total number of 

 gastrosteges in the specimen, thereby giving the position in terms 

 of percentage. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



the olfactory sense of hymenoptera. 



by n. e. mcindoo, ph.d. 



Contents. 



PAGE 



Introduction and Methods 294 



A. The Olfactory Sense of Ants and Hornets 296 



I. Experiments on Normal Ants and Hornets 297 



1. Winged females of Formica 299 



2. Winged males of Formica 300 



3. Winged males of Carnponotus 301 



4. Major workers of Carnponotus •. .303 



5. Minor workers of Carnponotus 304 



6. Females of Vespula maculata .304 



II. Experiments on Ants and Hornets with Mutilated Antennae 30.5 



1. Funiculi of Ants cut off 30.5 



2. Funiculi of Ants covered with glue..... 307 



3. Flagella of Hornets cut off 307 



III. Summary 308 



IV. Morphology of the Olfactory Pores 309 



1. Disposition 309 



(a) Winged female of Formica 310 



(6) Other Ants and Hornets examined 312 



2. Structure 312 



(a) External structure.: 312 



(b) Internal structure 313 



V. Physiology of the Olfactory Pores 316 



1. Dealated females of Formica : 317 



2. Wings of females of Formica pulled off 317 



3. Wings of males of Formica pulled off 31S 



4. Bases of wings glued and legs of females of Formica covered 



with vaseline 319 



5. Dealated females of Camponotus 320 



6. Glue in wing niches and legs of dealated females of Carnponotus 



covered with vaseline 321 



7. Wings of males of Camponotus pulled off 321 



8. Wings of Vespula maculata pulled off 322 



9. Summary 323 



B. "Disposition of the Olfactory Pores of other Hymenoptera 325 



I. Distribution 325 



II. Number 325 



III. Relative Sensitiveness of Species examined to Odors 326 



Discussion 334 



Literature Cited .' 338 



E.xplanation of Plates XI and XII 339 



Introduction and Methods. 



In the investigation here recorded three objects have been kept 



in view: (1) To determine physiohjgically the relative sensitiveness 



of ants and liornets to different odors, so that it may be expressed 



numerically for comparison under different conditions; (2) to locate 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



the olfactory organs; and (3) to determine morphologically the 

 relative sensitiveness of different species of Hymenoptera to odors. 

 The study of the behavior of normal ants and hornets under experi- 

 mental conditions is used as a basis for correctly interpreting the 

 observations on these insects made abnormal for the purpose of 

 obtaining data which concern the first two objects in view. 



Many entomologists have had something to say about the seat of 

 the organs of smsU in insects, but most of the views are purely 

 speculative. A few have done extensive and thorough experimental 

 work to determine the location of this sense. However, since they 

 have failed to study sufficiently the behavior of the insects investi- 

 gated, the responses observed have misled them in determining the 

 seat of the olfactory organs. It is now generally believed that the 

 antennae bear the organs of smell, but as all the antennal organs are 

 coverecl with a hard membrane the objection has been raised that 

 such organs cannot receive olfactory stimuli. Hicks (1857) dis- 

 covered some peculiar organs on the bases of the wings and on the 

 legs of insects and suggested that they have an olfactory function. 

 The writer (1914) made a comprehensive study of these organs in 

 the honey bee. He experimentally proved that they have an olfac- 

 tory function and for this reason called them olfactory pores. The 

 present paper embodies the results of a comparative study on 

 Hymenoptera in much the same manner as pursued on the honey bee. 



To obtain material for the study of the disposition of the organs 

 described by Hicks, adult specimens were used. The legs and wings 

 were pulled off at their articulations, and the thoraces and abdomens 

 Avere slit open. These parts were put into a cold saturated solution 

 of caustic potash, where they remained one to three days, depending 

 on the size of the material. When removed from this solution the 

 material was washed thoroughly in water and then was decolorized 

 with chlorine gas in the following manner: A small quantity of 

 potassium chlorate was put into a small wide-mouthed bottle. All 

 the parts belonging to a specimen were loosely wrapped in a small 

 piece of cheesecloth which was suspended in the neck of the bottle. 

 Then a pipetteful of hydrochloric acid was dropped upon the 

 potassium chlorate in the bottom of the bottle. At once chlorine 

 gas was liberated which soon bleached the dark colored specimen. 



To obtain material for the study of the internal anatomy of the 

 organs herein discussed, pupal insects were mostly used. The 

 appendages and bodies of the pupae were cut into small pieces, which 

 were immediately dropped into Carnoy's fluid (equal parts of abso- 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



lute alcohol, chloroform, and glacial acetic acid, with corrosive 

 sublimate to excess). For embedding, the double method of cel- 

 loidin and paraffin was employed. Serial sections cut six and ten 

 microns thick were stained with Ehrich's hamatoxylin and oesin. 

 For further details in regard to technique the reader is referred to 

 the writer's work on the honey bee. 



The writer is indebted to the following persons: to Messrs. J. C. 

 Crawford, H. L. Viereck and S. A. Rohwer of the U. S. National 

 Museum and the Bureau of Entomology for all the dried specimens 

 used; to Mr. Rohwer the writer is particularly grateful for the 

 systematic arrangement and names of most of the specimens included 

 in the table, pages 330 to 334; to Mr. Theo. Pergande for identifying 

 the ants used; to Miss Mabel Colcord for assistance in obtaining 

 references; and to Emma Pabst Mclndoo, the writer's wife, for 

 translating some of the foreign works. 



A. THE OLFACTORY SENSE OF ANTS AND HORNETS. 



In order to keep ants in the laboratory, several modified Fielde 

 ant nests were constructed. Colonies of various species were con- 

 fined in these nests. The behavior of the ants in the nests was 

 carefully studied and this behavior was used as a standard for 

 judging the behavior of all the ants used singly in the various experi- 

 ments. Many females of Camponotus^ were found in rotten stumps 

 and logs in the woods. Some of them had no eggs, some had only a 

 few eggs, while others had several eggs, a few larvae, and a few pupae. 

 Each female with her own brood, if brood was found in her nest, 

 was put into a honey-bee queen cage. This cage is 3| inches long, 

 2| inches wide and f inch deep. 



To study the behavior of one colony of Formica ohscuriventris 

 Forel in surroundings more natural than those afforded by using Fielde 

 nests, a large glass cage with four compartments was constructed. 

 The nest portion of the cage was 10 inches long, 10 inches wide and 

 16 inches tall. The entrance of the nest was 10 inches long, 10 inches 

 wide and 8 inches tall. This compartment was raised 8 inches above 

 the table so that one end of it connected with the upper half of one 

 side of the nest. The run-way was 8 inches long, 4 inches wide and 

 1 inch deep. This was also supported 8 inches above the table. 

 One end of it connected with the distal end of the nest entrance and 

 the other end connected with the fourth compartment, the manger. 



* Here as elsewhere in this paper unless otherwise indicated is meant the 

 large brownish variety of Camponotus pennsylvanicus Say. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



The manger, or feeding compartment, was 10 inches long, 8 inches 

 wide and 8 inches tall. It and the nest were not elevated above 

 the top of the table. The tops and bottoms of all four compart- 

 ments were glass, except the bottom of the run-way, which was 

 perforated tin. To make the bottoms of the nest and manger water- 

 tight an additional bottom made of plaster of Paris was added to 

 each of these compartments. The joints of the cage were so securely 

 covered with adhesive cloth and the tops fitted so snugly that 

 vapor collected on the tops and was transformed into large drops of 

 water. A large colony of Formica was found in a rotten log. A 

 half-bushel of the rotten wood and perhaps a quart of the ants with 

 brood of all stages were placed into the nest of the cage. 



A large flat piece of cotton wet with water w^as constantly kept 

 in each Fielde nest. A small piece of cotton was kept in each queen 

 cage, and a small amount of water was occasionally poured upon 

 the wood in the nest and twice a week water was put into the manger. 

 Honey, sugar syrup, queen-cage candy, live insects, and larvae of 

 various insects served as food. 



I. Experiments on Normal Ants and Hornets. 



To determine the relative sensitiveness of females, males, and 

 workers to various odors, under conditions which permitted of their 

 close observation, triangular experimental cases were used. These 

 were made of three narrow wooden strips, two of which were 5 and 

 the third 4 inches long, each strip being half an inch thick. Wire 

 screen served as a bottom and glass as a top for the case. The 

 apices and bases of these cases rested on two supports above a rigid 

 table and the table legs rested on a concrete floor, near a window. 

 Cheesecloth was spread across both supports, thus making a double 

 bottom for the cases. No screen was used to prevent the ants from 

 seeing the observer because they never showed any responses to the 

 movements made by the observer. 



The following sources of odor were used for determining the 

 reactions of the ants in the observation cases: Chemically pure 

 essential oils of peppermint, thyme, and wintergreen; food — honey 

 and comb, parts of plant leaves, and l)its of the stem of pennyroyal 

 (Hecloma pulegioides ?) ; ant secretion — ^formic acid. All these 

 substances except the last were kept in stoppered vials of the same 

 shape and size. The leaves and bits of the stem of the pennyroyal 

 were dried, but they still gave off a strong odor when the vial was 

 uncorked. The formic acid was obtained by squeezing the abdomen 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr.. 



of a large worker of Formica or of Camponotus. This caused the 

 ant to discharge all of the formic acid stored up and some of it lodged 

 on the tip end of the abdomen. The liquid on the abdomen gave off 

 a penetrating odor which lasted four or five minutes. 



An ant or hornet was carefully removed from its nest or cage and 

 was placed into one of the experimental cases. When first put into 

 the case the insect usually wandered about for several minutes, but 

 finally became quiet. The insect was tested with each of the above 

 odors only wdien it became perfectly quiet, without even the antennae 

 being moved in the least. The stopper of a vial was quickly removed 

 and the vial was gently and slowly placed under the experimental 

 case directly beneath and within one-half inch of the individual 

 being tested. Occasionally the vial was placed a few inches in front 

 of the specimen, to test its ability of smelling for a short distance. 

 When using the odor from the formic acid, the ant whose abdomen 

 carried some of this acid was held by a pair of forceps under the 

 experimental case in the same position in which a vial was held. 

 When all of these precautions were taken, a normal ant or hornet 

 responds to anyone of these odors without failure. As a control, 

 an empty and odorless vial was now and then placed under the 

 insects in the same manner. If by chance an ant or hornet moved 

 while the control test was being made, its behavior was quite different 

 from that observed when odors were used. Only the first responses 

 have been recorded and in all cases where there was the least doubt 

 as to whether the insect moved for any reason other than the olfactory 

 stimulus, such movements were never recorded. The reaction time 

 was counted in seconds. With an ordinary watch the minimum time 

 which can be definitely recorded is two seconds, although most of 

 the individuals responded to some of the odors much more promptly. 

 Owing to this source of error, the average recorded time is probably 

 double what it should be in the cases when the response was prompt. 

 An intermission of 10 minutes elapsed between any two tests in the 

 same experimental case. A few individuals were tested twice with 

 the same odor, l)ut most of them were tested only once. 



In the following paragraphs are given the responses of the three 

 castes of ants and of work;>r hornets to the odors of the six different 

 substances and the average reaction times in seconds. In recording 

 the responses the term "vibrated" is used to describe the rapid 

 movement of the antennae up and down or from side to side. When 

 this movement is slow they are described simply as having ''moved. " 

 Quite often an ant or hornet lies flat on its thorax and abdomen, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



SO the word "arose" is to be interpreted as meaning that the insect 

 gets up and stands on its feet. In the averages of reaction times 

 the probable error is jiresumably high. It has not been calculated 

 since slight differences in reaction time are not considered as signifi- 

 cant in the discussion of results. All anthropomorphic terms are 

 put in quotation marks. 



1. Winged females of For7mca. 



Oil of peppermint : 



10 vibrated antennae. 



7 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



5 moved away quickly. 



2 arose quickly. 



1 jumped toward odor. 



Reaction time 2 seconds, average 2.00 seconds. 



Oil of thyme: 



8 vibrated antennae. 



8 vibrated antenme and moved aw^ay. 



3 arose quickly. 



3 moved away quickly. 



2 turned around quickly over odor. 

 1 moved slightly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.04 seconds. 



Oil of wintergreen: 



12 vibrated antennae. 



6 vibrated antennae and moved away. 

 5 arose quickly. - 



1 vibrated antennae and arose quickly. 



1 moved away quickly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.32 seconds. 



Honey and comb: 



12 vibrated antennae. 

 5 vibrated antennae and turned around over odor. 



3 vibrated antennae and tried to get through bottom. 



2 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



1 vibrated antennte and moved toward odor. 



1 moved toward odor. 



1 moved quickly and tried to get through bottom. 



Reaction time 2-5 seconds, average 3.00 seconds. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Leaves and stems of pennyroyal: 

 18 vibrated antennae. 

 3 vibrated antennae and arose quickly. 



2 vibrated antennae and turned around over odor. 

 1 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



1 arose quickly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.52 seconds. 



Formic acid: 



12 vibrated antennae. 

 5 vibrated antennae and turned around over odor. 



3 vibrated antennae and tried to get through bottom. 



2 vibrated antennae and moved head on l^ottom. 

 2 vibrated antennae and arose quickly. 



1 moved away quickly. 



Reaction time 2-4 seconds, average 2.80 seconds. 



The average reaction time of all six odors for 25 females tested 

 is 2.45 seconds. These females were very restless and much time 

 was spent while waiting for them to become quiet. These females 

 and 23 more normal ones, making 48 in all, were put into a small 

 wooden box half full of rotten wood. An equal number of sister 

 females with their funiculi cut off were also put into the box at the 

 same time. They were given food and water. The normal ants 

 lived from 1 to 23 days with an average of 14 days and 10 hours. 

 The mutilated females lived from 4 to 22 hours, with only 19 hours 

 as an average. 



2. Winged males of Formica. 

 Oil of peppermint: 



4 vibrated antennae. 

 4 raised antennae. 



2 arose slowly. 

 2 arose quickly. 



2 turned around over odor. 

 1 jumped backward. 

 1 moved away quickly. 



1 vibrated antennae and arose quickly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.23 seconds. 



Oil of thyme: 



10 vibrated antennae. 



2 moved away quickly. 

 2 moved antennae. 



1 arose slowly. 



1 arose quickly. 



1 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.29 seconds. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



Oil of wintergreen: 



6 vibrated antennae. 



4 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



3 arose quickly. 

 1 arose slowly. 



1 moved away quickly. 

 1 moved antennae. 



1 jumped away quickly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.12 seconds. 



Honey and comb: 



13 vibrated antennae, some of these quite vigorously. 



2 moved antennae. 



1 vibrated antennae and moved legs. 



1 vibrated antennae and arose. 



Reaction time 2-5 seconds, average 3.41 seconds. 



Leaves and stems of pennyroyal: 



7 vibrated antennae. 



4 moved antennae. 



2 vibrated antennae and moved legs. 

 2 arose quickly. 



1 raised antennae. 



, 1 jumped quickly. 



Reaction time 2-4 seconds, average 2.82 seconds. 



Formic acid: 



11 vibrated antennae. 



2 vibrated antennae and turned around over odor. 



2 vibrated antennae and moved away. 

 1 arose quickly. 



1 moved antennae. 



Reaction time 2—4 seconds, average 2.94 seconds. 



The average reaction time of all six odors for the 17 males tested 



is 2.63 seconds. These males were very quiet and were tested without 



any difficulty. Their longevity as normal ants is unknown, for they 



were used in another set of experiments after the wings had been 



pulled off. 



3. Winged males of Camponohis. 



Oil of peppermint: 



9 moved away quickly. 



8 vibrated antennae. 



3 arose quickly. 



2 raised antennae and moved away. 

 1 arose slowly. 



1 vibrated antennae and moved away. 

 1 moved backward ciuickly. 

 Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.12 seconds. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Oil of thyme: 



14 vibrated antennae. 

 5 moved away quickly. 

 2 vibrated antennae and moved away. 

 1 moved backward quickly. 

 1 arose quickly. 

 . 1 vibrated antennae and moved one leg. 



1 arose slowly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.48 seconds. 



Oil of wintergreen: 



8 moved away quickly. 



7 vibrated antennae. 



4 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



4 arose quickly. 



2 arose slowly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.28 seconds. 



Honey and comb: 



16 vibrated antennae. 



5 moved antennae. 



1 moved antennae and moved backward. 

 1 arose quickly. 

 1 arose and vibrated antennae. 

 1 vibrated antennae and moved front legs. 

 Reaction time 2-7 seconds, average 3.68 seconds. 



Leaves and stems of pennyroyal: 



17 vibrated antennae. 



3 moved antennae. 

 3 arose slowly. 



1 arose quickly. 



1 moved away quickly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.48 seconds. 



Formic acid: 



13 vibrated antennae. 

 5 moved away slowly. 



2 vibrated antennae and arose slowly. 

 2 arose quickly. 



1 moved backward slowly. 

 1 moved away quickly. 

 1 vibrated antennae and moved away. 

 Reaction time 2-5 seconds, average 3.40 seconds. 



The average reaction time of all six odors for the 25 males tested 

 is 2.74 seconds. These males were very active and agile, but quite 

 restful, and they were easily tested. They lived from 4 to 133 days, 

 with 23 days and 9 hours as an average. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



4. Major workers of Camponotus. 



Oil of peppermint: 



vibrated antennse. 



6 vibrated antennae and moved away. 



3 vibrated antennse and moved backward. 



3 moved antennse and moved away. 



3 arose quickly. 



2 arose and worked antennse. 



1 raised antennse. 



1 arose slowly. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.12 seconds. 



Oil of thyme : 



10 vibrated antennse. 

 6 arose quickly. 



4 moved away quickly. 



2 moved antennse and moved away. 



2 raised antennse. 



1 arose quickly and vibrated antennse. 



Reaction time 2-3 seconds, average 2.40 seconds. 



Oil of wintergreen : 



8 moved away quickly. 

 6 vibrated antennse. 



3 arose quickly. 



2 moved antennse. 



2 jumped backward quickly. 



2 arose slowly. 



1 moved antennse. 



1 tried to get through bottom. 



Reaction time 2-4 seconds, average 2.44 seconds. 



Honey and comb: 



11 moved antennse. 

 10 vibrated antennse. 



3 moved away slowly. 



1 tried to get through bottom. 



Reaction time 3-10 seconds, average 5.56 seconds. 



Leaves and stems of pennyroyal : 



12 moved antennse. 



9 vibrated antennse. 



2 raised antennse. 



2 moved antennse and moved away. 



Reaction time 2-5 seconds, average 3.40 seconds. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Formic acid: 



10 moved quickly and tried to get at odor. 

 6 vibrated antennae. 



3 vibrated antennae and turned around over odor. 

 2 vibrated antennae and tried to get at odor. 

 2 moved away and vibrated antennae. 

 1 jumped toward source of odor. 

 1 moved away slowly. 



Reaction time 2-6 seconds, average 3.40 seconds. 



The average reaction time of all six odors for the 25 large workers 

 tested is 3.22 seconds. These ants were kept in a Fielde nest with 

 many more workers and males. Between May 24 and July 5, 19 

 workers of various sizes had died. These 19 lived from 47 to 72 

 days, with 26 days and 8 hours as an average. 



5. Minor Workers of Camponotus. 



To ascertain if the smallest workers of a colony of ants respond 

 as quickly to odor stimuli as do the largest workers of the same 

 colony, 25 small workers were tested. These were sisters to the 

 large workers just described and were taken from the same colony. 

 The responses of the small workers to the six odors were similar to 

 those of the large workers. In two instances when the ant was 

 tested with honey and comb, it tried to get at the source of the odor. 

 In one instance when the ant was tested with formic acid, it turned 

 around quickly and turned up the abdomen as if going to discharge 

 its own formic acid. 



The reaction times for the 25 small workers are: oil of peppermint, 

 2-3 seconds, average 2.12 seconds; oil of thyme, 2-3 seconds, average 

 2.08 seconds; oil of wintergreen, 2-4: seconds, average 2.60 seconds; 

 honey and comb, 2-10 seconds, average 4.84 seconds; leaves and 

 stems of pennyroyal, 2-5 seconds, average 3.16 seconds; formic 

 acid, 2-8 seconds, average 3.72 seconds. The average reaction time 

 of all six odors for the 25 small workers tested is 3.09 seconds. 



Only 2 soldiers were tested. They were sisters to the workers 

 just described. Their reaction times are similar to those of the 

 other workers. 



6. Females of Vesjnda maculata. 



A large hornets' (Vespula maculata) nest, containing many adult 

 hornets and all stages of young, was suspended inside a large wire- 

 screen cage. Twenty-five of the adult worker hornets were removed 

 from the cage, and they were then placed singly into the experimental 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



oases. A piece of queen-cage candy and a piece of cotton wet with 

 water were also placed into each case. The hornets were not "at 

 home" at all in these cases. They were extremely restless, wandered 

 about inside the case for some time, and with their powerful mandi- 

 bles tore the large piece of candy into many bits, but ate very little 

 of it. All of those that failed to become quiet after such a confine- 

 ment for a few hours were discarded and others were used. When 

 tested with the three essential oils, they responded promptly. Most 

 of the responses were similar to those of normal ants, but one charac- 

 teristic response not observed, when experimenting with ants, was 

 that the hornets seemed to notice the odor; this means that the hornet 

 turned its head toward the floor of the case as if watching from 

 whence the odor was coming, and sometimes it grabbed a wire in 

 the bottom just above the top of the vial. If the hornets saw the 

 vial during these tests they were compelled to see through both the 

 wire-screen bottom and the cheesecloth bottom. It was also neces- 

 sary to place a cheesecloth screen between them and the observer 

 to prevent them from noticing the observer's movements. They 

 were confined singly in these cases until they died. They lived 

 from 16 hours to 17 days and 21 hours, with an average of 9 days 

 and 7 hours. The reaction times are : oil of peppermint, 2-3 seconds, 

 average 2.12 seconds; oil of thyme, 2-4 seconds, average 2.56 seconds; 

 oil of wintergreen, 2-4 seconds, average 2.60 seconds. These give a 

 general average of 2.43 seconds. 



II. Experiments on Ants and Hornets wtth Mutilated 



Antenna. 



Since it is now generally believed that the olfactory organs of 

 insects are located in the antennae, and to determine whether the 

 olfactory organs of ants and hornets are located in these appendages, 

 the antennae were mutilated, the behavior of the mutilated insects 

 was then studied, and later these insects were tested with odors as 

 usual. 



1. Funiculi of ants cut off. 



The funiculi of 12 workers of Formica were cut off with a small 

 pair of sharp scissors and these mutilated ants with 12 unmutilated 

 nor.i.al sisters were placed into a Fielde nest. When a funiculus 

 was cut off, a small drop of yellowish blood exuded from the wound. 

 The mutilated ants when put into the nest cleaned off the exuded 

 blood. They were slightly hostile to each other and to their unmu- 

 tilated sisters. When a bee and a fly were put into the nest, the 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^W-, 



mutilated ants did not offer to catch the strange insects, Ijut the 

 unmutilated sisters lost no time in catching them. Only one of 

 the 12 mutilated ants ate food, the other 11 stood quietly by the 

 food as if ready to attack an enemy. All of the 12 unmutilated ants 

 greedily ate the food. 



Fifty workers of Formica were removed one at a time from the 

 large glass cage. The funiculi of each were cut off and then the 

 insect was returned to the cage. A small drop of yellowish blood 

 exuded from every wound. Each mutilated ant was quite irritable 

 and invariably attacked one or more sisters, and as a result several 

 ants were killed. 



The funiculi of 2 soldiers, 10 large workers, and 7 small Avorkers 

 of Camporiotus were cut off. These mutilated sister ants were then 

 put into a Fielde nest. For three hours thereafter they were quite 

 irritable and fought each other, then they became very inactive and 

 when tested with oil of peppermint, they responded slowly by 

 moving away. The next day they were still quite inactive and 

 "paid no attention" to anything, except when they came in contact 

 with each other, they still fought one another. When tested with 

 odors they failed to respond. At no time did they eat or drink. 



The funiculi of 30 winged virgin females of Formica Avere cut off. 

 When each antenna was severed a small pencil brush wet with 95 

 per cent, alcohol was applied to the wound for several seconds. 

 This seemed to check the flow of blood, but did not stop it entirely. 

 A half-hour after the funiculi had been cut off these ants were placed 

 singly into the experimental cases. They wandered about inside 

 the cases considerably, and when they stopped wandering they 

 stroked the stubs of the antennae incessantly and as a rule were very 

 inactive. When tested with the three essential oils — peppermint, 

 thyme, and wintergreen — their responses were less pronounced 

 than were those of unmutilated ants. As a whole, their responses 

 were uncertain, but were of the same nature as those of unmutilated 

 ants. Sometimes, instead of giving the usual response, they moved 

 or vibrated one or more legs. Sometimes an ant grabbed a wire in 

 the bottom of the case and held on to it tenaciously and did not 

 react at all to odors. Five of them failed to respond to odors and 

 scarcely moved when touched with a pencil. ^Diese ants were dis- 

 carded from the "experiments. The other 25 were tested with the 

 three essential oils. Their reaction times are: oil of peppermint, 

 2-10 seconds, average 3.08 se(;onds; oil of thyme, 2-15 seconds, 

 average 4.48 seconds; oil of wintergreen, 2-20 seccmds, average 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



5.60 seconds. These give a general average of 4.38 seconds, while 

 the same average for unmutilated sister females is 2.12 seconds. 

 Confined in a Fielde nest, these mutilated ants lived from 4 to 22 hours, 

 with only 19 hours as an average. Since these ants were abnormal, 

 it is reasonable to attribute the difference of 2.26 seconds in reaction 

 time to the inactiveness of the insects, and it is certain that the 

 inactiveness was brought about by the operation. 



2. Funiculi of ants covered with glue. 



Thirty winged virgin females of Forrnica from the large glass cage 

 were fastened to a pine board with pins. One pair of pins was 

 placed x-wise over the petiole and another pair was stuck into the 

 board in the same manner, between the head and the thorax. With 

 a small pencil brush the entire surfaces of both funiculi were covered 

 with a thin coat of liquid glue. After an interval of 15 minutes the 

 glue had become perfectly dry, the ant was unpinned and was put 

 into an experimental case. When unpinned from the board the 

 ants ran rapidly, but for a few moments thereafter when placed 

 into the cases they moved about more or less "crazily" and then 

 became so quiet that it was not necessary to wait on them to come to 

 rest. Five failed to respond to odors and when touched lightly 

 with a pencil they scarcely moved, but when touched harder they 

 jumped up quickly and ran about "crazily. " These five were 

 discarded from the experiments with odors. All the ants with 

 glued antennae were quite abnormal, because they did not move when 

 mechanically irritated unless really compelled to move. When 

 tested with the three essential oils some responded promptly while 

 others hesitated to respond. As a whole their responses were about 

 as pronounced as, and were similar to, those of unmutilated sister 

 females. Often instead of responding in the usual manner they 

 moved or vibrated one or more legs. Their reaction times are: 

 oil of peppermint, 2-15 seconds, average 6.08 seconds; oil of thyme, 

 3-15 seconds, average 6.40 seconds; oil of wintergreen, 2-10 seconds, 

 average 4.88 seconds. These give a general average of 5.78 seconds. 

 Since the behavior of these mutilated ants was abnormal and since 

 they lived from 1 to 12 days, with only an average of 6 days, the 

 injury caused by the glue must certainly have brought about the 

 slow reaction time. 



3. Flagella of hornets cut off. 



The flagella of 25 Vespula maculata were cut off with a pair of sharp 

 scissors. A small drop of blood exuded from each wound. When 

 21 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



these mutilated hornets were placed into the experimental cases, 

 they were at first extremely restless, then they became "sullen" 

 and inactive. 



Some of these mutilated hornets responded promptly when tested 

 with the three essential oils; some responded slowly, and a few 

 failed to respond at all. All of those which failed to respond to 

 odors scarcely moved when touched with a pencil. These were 

 discarded and the flagella of others were cut off. In behavior, hornets 

 with the flagella cut off are abnormal, and these lived from 3 hours 

 to 3 days and 20 hours with 1 day and 13 hours as an average. The 

 reaction times are: oil of peppermint, 2-5 seconds, average 2.84 

 seconds; oil of thyme, 2-5 seconds, average 2.92 seconds; oil of 

 wintergreen 2-5 seconds, average 3.52 seconds. These give a 

 general average of 3.09 seconds which is 0.66 second greater than the 

 same average for normal hornets. We can certainly attribute this 

 small difference in reaction time to the inactiveness of the mutilated 

 insects. 



III. Summary. 



The common response of all the normal ants tested to each of the 

 six odors used is as follows: (1) if lying flat on the thorax and 

 abdomen, they arose either slowly or quickly; (2) if standing on their 

 feet, they moved away either slowly or quickly. The more common 

 response is — they vibrated the antennae and moved away either 

 slowly or quickly. The most common response is — they vibrated 

 the antennae more or less vigorously. Many of the ants turned 

 around over the odors. While testing with honey and formic acid, 

 many of the ants tried to get through the bottoms of the cases to 

 the sources of the odors. In one instance while testing with formic 

 acid, the ant turned up its abdomen in the same position in which 

 the abdomen is held when the ant attacks an enemy. The average 

 reaction times of all six odors for all the normal ants tested in any 

 one set of experiments are as follows: females of Formica 2.45 seconds, 

 males of Formica 2.63 seconds, males of Camponotus 2.74 seconds, 

 major workers of Camponotus 3.22 seconds, and minor workers of 

 Camponotus 3.09 seconds. The average reaction time of the three 

 essential oils for all the normal hornets tested is 2.43 seconds. From 

 these figures, it is evident that the olfactory sense in the ants and 

 hornets tested is quite acute. Judging from the reaction times of 

 the females and males of Formica, the olfactory sense in both sexes 

 is equally developed. The slightly slower reaction time of the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



males may be due, however, to the fact that these males were young 

 and because they were not very active. The olfactory sense of the 

 males of Formica and of Camponotus seems to be about equally devel- 

 oped in both. The olfactory sense in the males of Camponotus seems 

 to be more highly developed than it is in the workers of the same 

 genus. There seems to be practically no difference in the ability 

 of the large and small workers of Camponotus to receive odor stimuli. 



Ants with the funiculi either cut off or covered with glue are not 

 normal and they do not live long. They soon become inactive and 

 some of them can hardly be mechanically irritated. Those which 

 almost fail to respond to mechanical stimuli never respond to odor 

 stimuli. These were discarded from the experiments in which 

 odors were used and all the others were tested with odors. The 

 average reaction times of the mutilated ants are about double those 

 of unmutilated sisters. The slowness in responding to odors is 

 probably due to the inactiveness of the mutilated insects. If the 

 slow reaction times indicate that some of the olfactory organs were 

 prevented from receiving odor stimuli, then the olfactory organs 

 that brought about the responses must be looked lor elsewhere than 

 on the antennae. 



Hornets with the antennae cut off are not normal and never live 

 long. The reaction time of hornets thus mutilated is only 0.66 

 second more than that of unmutilated hornets. Most of the olfac- 

 tory organs, if not all, of hornets must be looked for elsewhere than 

 on the antennae. 



IV. Morphology of the Olfactory Pores. 



Since the organs in the antennae of ants and hornets fail to receive 

 most, if not all, of the odor stimuli used in the preceding experiments, 

 and because the writer proved experimentally that the pores first 

 described by Hicks (1857) do receive odor stimuli in the honey bee, 

 these pores in ants and hornets will now be discussed. 



1. Disposition. 



In making a study of the disposition of the olfactory pores of ants 

 and hornets the following were used: five specimens each of winged 

 females, winged males, and major workers of Formica; five specimens 

 each of dealated females, winged males, major and minor workers 

 of Camponotus; and one specimen of Vespula maculata. All the 

 wings and legs of all 36 specimens were examined carefully for pores. 

 Since the winged female of Formica is typical, its olfactory pores 




310 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



will be described in detail and then the variations found in the other 

 above-enumerated individuals will be stated. 



(a) Winged Female of Formica. — The wings have dorsal and ventral 

 surfaces, and the legs may be divided for description into four sur- 

 faces. The inner surface faces the ant's body and the outer surface 

 is directed from the body. The anterior surface faces the head, 



Fig. 1 . — Diagram of ventral surface of female of Formica, showing location of 

 groups of pores. X. 7. 



Fig. 2. — Diagram of dorsal surface of female of Formira, showing location of 

 groups of pores. X 7. In figures 1 and 2 the wings are disarticulated and are 

 inserted at the right. X 15. 



while the posterior surface is directed backward. There are always 

 three groups of pores on the front wing, two on the hind wing, 

 three on the trochanter, and one on the femur of each leg. There 

 are also two groups of isolated pores on each trochanter and on each 

 tibia. The groups are located as follows: Nos. 1 to 5 inclusive lie 

 on the bases of the wings, Nos. 1 and 2 (text fig. 1) being on the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



ventral surface of the front wing and No. 3 (text fig. 2) on the dorsal 

 surface of the same wing; No. 4 (text fig. 2) lies on the dorsal sur- 

 face of the hind wing, and No. 5 (text fig. 1) lies on the ventral sur- 

 face of the same wing; Nos. 6 to 8 inclusive, always lie on the 

 trochanter at the distal end, Nos. 6 and 7 (text fig. 1) being on the 

 anterior surface, while No. 8 (text fig. 2) lies on the inner surface. 

 No. 9 (text fig. 2) always lies at the proximal end of the femur on 

 the posterior surface. Groups a and b of the isolated pores lie on 

 the trochanter, while groups c and d lie on the tibia. The groups 

 of isolated pores are not always constant in position, but are 

 usually located as follows: Group a (text fig. 1) lies on the outer 

 surface near the distal end of the trochanter and group h (text fig. 2) 

 is found near the proximal end of the same segment on the inner 

 surface. Groups c and d (text figs. 1 and 2) combined form a 

 horseshoe-shaped row of pores with the toe of the horseshoe lying 

 on the posterior surface at the proximal end of the segment, and the 

 sides of the horseshoe pass around the tibia in opposite directions 

 and end with the two heels lying on the anterior surface. In the 

 female of Formica, as well as in most ants, all the groups are quite 

 constant in number on all the legs and wings and the positions of 

 those on the legs vary only slightly by them rotating around the 

 segments. Those on the wings never vary in position. In fact, the 

 number of groups and their respective positions are almost identical 

 to those of the worker honey bee. 



For all five females of Formica examined, the groups of pores on 

 the wings and third pair of legs vary in regard to the number of pores, 

 as follows: No. 1, 11 to 18, average 13; No. 2, 70 to 86, average 78; 

 No. 3, 60 to 74, average 69; No. 4, 9 to 13, average 12; No. 5, 35 to 

 39, average 37; No. 6, 4 to 8, average 5; No. 7, 17 to 19, average 

 18; No. 8, 6 to 9, average 8; No. 9, 9 to 11, average 9; group a, 

 3 to 6, average 5; group b, 3 to 5, average 4; group c, 1 to 6, average 

 3; group d, 4 to 5, average 5. The numbers of pores in the groups 

 on the first and second pairs of legs vary slightly more than those on 

 the third pair of legs. On the first pair of legs there is a total average 

 number of 112 pores; on the second pair 116 pores; and on the 

 third pair 114 pores, making a total of 342 pores as an average for 

 all six legs of a female of Formica. The front pair of wings has 320 

 pores, while the hind pair has only 98 pores, making 418 pores for 

 all four wings. It is thus evident that an average female of Formica 

 has only 760 pores, while by referring to the table page 333 it is seen 

 that a worker honey bee has 2,204 pores. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



(6) Other Ants and Hornets Examined. — The groups of pores in the 

 other specimens of Formica and Camponotiis examined are tolerably 

 constant in number and position. They are so similar to those of 

 the females of Formica, that only the total number of pores will be 

 given. Counting the pores for all five individuals in each set, the 

 total average number of pores is as follows: males of Formica — ^legs 

 356, legs and wings 892; major workers of Formica — legs 332; 

 dealated females of Camponotus — legs 317; males of Camponotus — • 

 legs 322, legs and wings 1,090; major workers of Camponotus — legs 

 331; minor workers of Camponotus — legs 314. In regard to the 

 total number of pores on the legs, it is thus seen that there is practi- 

 cally no difference between the number on the legs of workers and 

 queens and only a few more on the legs of males, but the wings of 

 males have many more than do the wings of females. (For more 

 details see table, page 331.) 



The groups of pores in the worker hornet {Vespula maculata) are 

 also quite constant in number and position and resemble those of the 

 worker honey bee more than those of an ant. The group on the 

 femur is always double, consisting of two rows of pores widely divided, 

 and for this reason each row is regarded as a separate group. Groups 

 Nos. 7 and 9 on the leg of an ant also each consist of two rows of 

 pores, but since the two rows lie side by side they may be regarded 

 as only one group. Group No. 6 of an ant is a straight row, while 

 the pores of the same group of a hornet are bunched. The other 

 groups of the hornet are quite similar to those of the honey bee. 

 'The total number of pores for the hornet examined is 1,957. (See 

 table, page 333, for details.) 



The pores of an ant vary more in size than do those of the hornet 

 or honey bee. Group No. 8 (Plate XI, fig. 3)- on the trochanters well 

 illustrates this. Here the largest pore is at least five times the size of 

 the smallest one. Those on the tibia3 (fig. 4) also vary much. Those 

 on the wings (fig. 5) vary only slightly in size. In proportion to the 

 sizes of an ant and of a worker honey bee, the pores of the ant are 

 much larger. The pores of a hornet are proportionately as large 

 as those of the honey bee. 



2. Structure. 



(a) E.vternal Structure. — When examined under a low-power lens, 

 the olfactory pores may be easily mistaken for hair sockets from 



2 All figures, except text figures 1, 2, and 3, are numbered consecutively on 

 Plates XI and XII. 




1914. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



which the hairs have been removed. When more carefully observed 

 under a high-power lens, a striking difference in external form is 

 seen. The pores appear as small bright spots when a strong trans- 

 mitted light is used. Each bright spot has a dark boundary or pore 

 wall (fig. 3, PorW). Near the centre of this boundary is a trans- 

 parent spot, the pore aperture, which may be round, oblong, or 

 slit-like. On the wings the pore apertures are always round or oblong 

 (fig. 5, PorAp) and never slit-like as on. the legs (fig. 3, PorAp). At 

 the lowest focusing level any pore aperture, however, is perfectly 

 round. The boundary (fig. 3, PorB) of the pore is usually bordered 

 by a band of darker chitin. 



(6) Internal Structure. — All the olfactory pores studied are inverted 

 flask-shaped structures in which the bottoms of the flasks are chitin- 

 ous layers (fig. 6, ChL). These layers of chitin contain the pore 

 apertures and they form external coverings for the pores. In a 

 typical pore as found in the tibia of Formica, the neck {NkFl) of the 

 flask is wide and the mouth (Mo) is flaring. About two-thirds of 

 the space at the bottom of the flask is occupied by a chitinous cone 

 (Con). The cone generally stains less deeply than the surrounding 

 chitin (Ch), but is not separated from it. The apex of the cone is 

 hollow and extends to the neck of the flask. The sense cell (SC) 

 lies beneath the mouth of the flask. It is bipolar, long, and slender, 

 and comparatively large. The sense fiber (SF) of this cell is en- 

 larged at the apex of the cone. Its peripheral end runs into the 

 hollow of the cone, pierces the bottom of the cone, and enters the 

 lowest portion of the pore aperture. The nerve fiber (fig. 13, NF) 

 of the sense cell joins a nerve cord. The nucleus (SCNuc) with its 

 nucleoli (SCNucl) is always conspicuous. 



Now since the anatomy of a pore is understood, the external 

 appearance of a pore may be explained. The dark border of chitin 

 (fig. 3, PorB) around the boundary of the pore is due to the thick 

 chitin (fig. 13, aa) at the mouth of the flask. The boundary (flg. 3, 

 PorW) is the same as the greatest width of the flask. The bright 

 area inside the boundary is caused by the light having to pass through 

 only the chitinous cone (fig. 13, Con) and the chitinous laj^er (fig. 13, 

 ChL). The aperture appears transparent because the sense fiber 

 (fig. 13, SF) and all the other tissues have been removed by the 

 caustic potash treatment. 



Sections through the tibiae of pupal muddobbers throw some light 

 on the origin of the anatomy of a pore. Quite often very large cells 

 (Plate XII, fig. 38, SC) may be seen among the small hypodermal cells 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



(HypS). This indicates that the sense cells are modified hypodermal 

 cells. It appears that the cone iCon) is formed after ,the surrounding 

 chitin is almost completed. In figure 38 the hypodermis (Hyp) has 

 shrunk a short distance from the chitin {Ch) drawing the hypodermal 

 strand (HypSt) an equal distance from the base of the cone (Con). 

 This strand probably served as a passage-way for conveying a 

 hypodermal secretion which formed the cone. With Ehrlich's 

 hamatoxylin and oesin the outer margin (a) of the cone stains a 

 faint purple. The inner margin (6) is pink, having the same color 

 as that of the lowest strata (c) of the surrounding chitin. The 

 chitin at d is light yellow; at e, dark yellow, and at /, it is semi- 

 transparent. At these last three places it failed to stain. 



Judging from what can be gleaned from all the sections studied, 

 including those of the honey bee, the origin of these organs is probably 

 about as follows. In the early pupal stage, the hypodermis is thick, 

 no chitin is yet formed, and all the hypodermal cells have about the 

 same size. In the 16-day-olcl worker pupae of the honey bee neither 

 pores nor sense cells are found, but many large hypodermal cells 

 occur where the sense cells later appear. At this age the chitin and 

 hairs are being rapidly formed. A day later pores and sense cells 

 are found. The sense cells and flasks including the pore apertures 

 are then simultaneously formed, while the cone and sense fiber are 

 later formations. Both poles of the sense cell are formed as growing 

 processes. The peripheral pole unites with the pore aperture and 

 the inner one joins the nerve branch while the cone is being formed 

 by the hypodermal strand. 



The flasks vary much in diameter and length. The length always 

 depends on the thickness of the chitin. Figures 6 and 7 represent 

 the largest and smallest pores in the tibiae of the pupal females of 

 Formica. Figures 8 to 11 represent the flasks as found in the wings 

 of the same insect. Figure 8 is from group No. 2, and figure 9 is 

 from group No. 3 on the front wing. Figure 10 is from group No. 4, 

 and figure 11 is from group No. 5 on the hind wing. Figure 12 from 

 group No. 2 on the front wing shows the slight variations in size 

 of the flasks and also the bunch of sense cells (SC). Here none of 

 the pore apertures were discernible. Figures 13 and 14 show how the 

 pores, sense cells (SC), and hypodermis (Hyp) actually appear in 

 sections through the trochanters of the same insect. Figure 13 is 

 from group No. 7 and figure 14 is from group No. 8. Quite often 

 the sense cells (fig. 14, SC) lie among the hypodermal cells (HypS), 

 and hypodermal strands (HypSt) may be seen running toward and 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



into the cones, again indicating that the sense cells are modified 

 hypodermal cells and that the hypodermis forms the cones about the 

 time when the other chitin is completed. Hair-mother cells (HrMS) 

 forming the hairs are also common. Figure 15 is a pore from group 

 No. 6 and figure 16 is an isolated pore from group b on the trochanter. 



Sections through the trochanters of adult dealated females of 

 C. pennsylvaniciis and through the front wings of adult females and 

 males of C. mela were made. The pores (figs. 17 to 22) found in these 

 sections are like those already described for the females of Formica. 



To ascertain if the nerves running to the wings and the sense cells 

 in the stubs of the wings of old dealated female ants are present, the 

 thorax of a dealated female of Camponotus was cut transversely into 

 sections 25 microns thick. This female had been kept in captivity 

 eight months and had reared a small family. On account of the 

 broken conditions of the sections, nerves cannot be traced into the 

 stubs of the wings, but the thoracic ganglia give off branches, and 

 some of these run toward the bases of the wings. Pores and sense 

 cells are easily found in the stubs of the wings. The sense cells 

 appear to be normal in all respects. Figure 23, SC, represents a few 

 of them taken from one wing. It thus seems that the nerves and 

 sense cells do not degenerate, as do most of the muscles in the thorax 

 of a dealated female ant, but the organs in the bases of the wings 

 appear to function throughout the life of the ant. 



Text fig. 3 is a diagram representing a transverse-longitudinal view 

 of a small portion of the femur {¥) and about two-thirds of the 

 trochanter {Tr) from the third leg of a female of Formica. Groups 

 Nos. 7, 8, 9, and h are shown as marked by these characters. The 

 anatomy of the leg and the innervation of these groups are also shown. 

 At this articulation the nerve {N) runs near the centre of the leg and 

 nerve branches {NB) are given off which run to the groups of sense 

 cells {SC). The sense cells are so located that the muscles {M) are 

 not near them, and a trachea runs near each group of sense cells. 



Plate XI, fig. 25, and Plate XII, fig. 26, are semidiagrams repre- 

 senting the innervation of the groups of pores (marked 2, 3, 4, and 5) 

 as found in the wings of Formica. Each wing arises from a niche 

 {Nic) in the thorax. The hard chitin of the wing is represented by 

 solid black, the soft articular chitin of the wing by dots, and the hard 

 chitin of the thorax by broken lines. 



Sections through the wings and legs of pupae of the hornet (Vespula 

 maculata) and the muddobber (Sceliphron cementarius) were also 

 made. The pores of the hornet (figs. 27 to 32) are the largest ones 




316 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



studied, and this insect is also tiie largest one examined. The pore 

 apertures are actually visible in only four of the pores drawn (figs. 

 29 and 31). The pores of the muddobber (figs. 33 to 41) are the 

 second largest ones studied. Four pores (fig. 41) were found on the 

 thorax at the base of the niche of the front wing. 



All the pores of the ant, hornet, and muddobber described in the 

 preceding pages may be compared with a typical pore (fig. 42) from 



Fig. 3. — Diagram of a transverse-longitudinal view of a small portion of 

 femur {¥) and about two-thirds of trochanter (Tr) from hind leg of female of 

 Formica, showing the internal anatomy of the leg and innervation of groups of 

 pores, Nos. 7, 8 and 9. 



the tibia of a worker honey bee. All drawings of these pores are 

 enlarged the same number of times. 



V. Physiology of the Olfactory Pores. 



To ascertain whether the pores, which have been studied, are 

 actually the organs in ants and hornets that receive odor stimuli, 

 the wings and legs of many individuals were mutilated. The behavior 

 of these mutilated insects was carefully studied and they were tested 




1914,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



with the various odors in the same manner as described on pages 

 297 to 305. 



1. Dedlated females of Formica. 



May 31, four dealated females and several workers were removed 

 from a small colony of Formica. They were placed into a Fielde 

 nest. Later the four females were put singly into experimental 

 cases and were tested with the six odors. Their reaction times are: 

 oil of peppermint 2-3 seconds, average 2.50 seconds; oil of thyme 

 2-3 seconds, average 2.25 seconds; oil of wintergreen 2-3 seconds, 

 average 2.75 seconds; honey and comb 2-5 seconds, average 3.25 

 seconds; leaves and stems of pennyroyal 2-4 seconds, average 3.00 

 seconds; formic acid 3-4 seconds, average 3.50 seconds. These 

 give a general average of 2.89 seconds, while the same average for 

 winged females of the same species is 2.45 seconds. The wing 

 niches of the four dealated females were examined. In seven of the 

 eight niches, pores were seen. One of these females lived 38 days. 

 The other three and all the workers died November 25th. They had 

 been neglected and had not been given water for more than a week. 



2. Wings of females of Formica pulled off. 



All 4 wings of each of 25 virgin females of Formica were pulled off. 

 This is accomplished by pinning the ant to the board as described 

 on page 307. Seize awing with the thumb and index-finger and pull 

 gently with the wing standing at right angles to the thorax. A half- 

 hour after the wings had been pulled off, these wingless females were 

 tested with the six odors. In behavior they appeared normal in 

 every respect except they responded to odors slightly more- slowly. 

 Confined in a Fielde nest alone, they lived from 4 to 16 days with 

 10 days as an average, whereas their winged sisters lived 14 days 

 and 10 hours as an average. Their reaction times are: oil of pepper- 

 mint 2-4 seconds, average 2.20 seconds; oil of thyme 2-3 seconds, 

 average 2.44 seconds; oil of wintergreen 2-4 seconds, average 2.32 

 seconds; honey and comb 3-6 seconds, average 3.84 seconds; leaves 

 and stems of pennyroyal 2-5 seconds, average 3.16 seconds; formic 

 acid 2-5 seconds, average 3.16 seconds. These give a general average 

 of 2.85 seconds, while the same average for sister females with wings 

 is 2.45. All the wings of these 25 females were examined micro- 

 scopically after they had been pulled off. Of the front wings 14 

 carried pores and 36 were devoid of pores. Of the hind wings 24 

 carried pores and 26 were devoid of pores. Thus when tested with 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



odors these ants carried pores on only 62 per cent, of the bases of 

 their wings. Might not the difference of 0.40 second in reaction 

 time between the reaction time of these wingless ants and that of 

 the winged sisters be due to the fact that the pores on 38 per cent, 

 of the wings were prevented from functioning? 



To ascertain if a greater percentage of wings including the pores 

 could be pulled off artificially, the wings of 37 more winged females 

 Were pulled off. This time greater care in pulling off the wings was 

 taken. These wings were also examined microscopically. Counting 

 all the wings from both lots of ants, 62 ants in all, 50 per cent, of the 

 wings pulled off bore pores. Of the front wings pulled off 52 bore 

 pores and 72 were devoid of pores. Of the hind wings pulled ofT 

 72 bore pores and 52 were devoid of pores. 



To ascertain the percentage of wings including the pores actually 

 lost by the natural method, many detached wings from the virgin 

 females were removed from the large glass cage. These wings were 

 certainly shed in the same manner in which the wings of female ants 

 are shed in nature. The worker ants had carried great numbers of 

 these detached wings out of the nest and had laid them on the 

 refuse pile. Of the 786 detached wings of females examined micro- 

 scopically only 18 per cent, of them bore pores. Of the front wings 

 120 bore pores and 365 did not bear pores. Of the hind wings 21 

 bore pores and 280 did not carry pores. Thus one-third of the front 

 wings bore pores, while only one-thirteenth of the hind wings bore 

 them. As stated on page 311, the average number of pores for both 

 front wings of one of these females is 320, and the average number 

 of pores for both hind wings of the same female is 98. With these 

 females it is, therefore, evident that when the wings are shed only 

 21 per cent, of the pores as an average are lost, while 79 per cent, 

 are not prevented from functioning, because the wings devoid of 

 pores always break off at a weak place (text fig. 1 and Plate XI, fig. 

 25, XX, yy) in the chitin just distal to the groups of- pores. The 

 wound made by the wing breaking off at this place cannot affect the 

 sense cells in the least because a thick layer of chitin separates these 

 cells from the outside air. 



One of the virgin females which had recently shed her wings was 

 examined. All four of the bases of the wings of this female were 

 left intact. 



3. Wings of males of Formica pulled off. 



The wings of 7 males of Formica were pulled off and the mutilated 

 males were tested with odors as usual. They appeared normal in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



every respect except they responded more slowly to odors than they 

 did before the wings were pulled off. Confined in a Fielde nest 

 with several sister workers, they lived from 3 to 9 days, with an 

 average of 5 days. Their reaction times are: oil of peppermint 2-5 

 seconds, average 3.14 seconds; oil of thj-me 2-5 seconds, average 

 3.00 seconds; oil of wintergreen 2-4 seconds, average 2.86 seconds; 

 honey and comb 3-10 seconds, average 4.86 seconds; leaves and 

 stems of pennyroyal, 2-5 seconds, average 3.71 seconds; formic acid 

 3-5 seconds, average 3.43 seconds. These give a general average 

 of 3.50 seconds, whereas the same average for the same ants before 

 the wings were pulled off is 2.63 seconds. The detached wings of 

 these 7 males and those from other brother ants were examined 

 microscopically. Of the 56 detached wings examined, 87^ per cent, 

 bore pores. Of the front wings 29 bore pores and one had no pores. 

 Of the hind wings 20 bore pores and 6 had no pores. On page 331 

 it is stated that the average number of pores for both front wings of 

 one of these males is 402, and for both hind wings of the same male 

 the average number of pores is 134. From these figures it is plain 

 that 92 per cent, of the pores as an average -were lost when the wings 

 were pulled off. The difference of 0.87 second in reaction time be- 

 tween the reaction time of the same males before the wings were 

 pulled off and the reaction time after the wings were pulled off may 

 possibly be attributed to the loss of the 92 per cent, of the pores on 

 the wdngs. 



4. Bases of wings glued and legs of females of Formica covered with 



vaseline. 



With a small pencil brush the bases of all 4 wings of each of 25 

 winged females of Formica were covered with liquid glue. When 

 the glue was dry another small pencil brush was employed in covering 

 the surface of each leg with a vaseline-beeswax mixture. Since 

 yellow commercial vaseline spreads too much when used alone, a 

 mixture was made by using three parts of vaseline and one part of 

 beeswax. All parts of the leg except the tarsus were covered with 

 this mixture. 



As soon as this double operation was completed, the ant was put 

 into an experimental case. When unpinned from the board the ant 

 was as active as usual and when placed inside the experimental case 

 it was slightly more restless than ordinarily. Confined singly they 

 cannot remove the glue from the wings, but' they begin at once to 

 clean off the vaseline-beeswax mixture. The}' pulled the front legs 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



between the mandibles and licked them with the mouth parts. 

 Then they rubbed the front legs on the other two pairs and again 

 put the front legs to the mouth parts. Sometimes they also stand 

 still and stroke the antennse with the front legs. As a result of all 

 these cleaning processes, they smear the vaseline-beeswax mixture 

 over the greater part of the body and some of it covers the spiracles. 

 Except for the slight restlessness caused by the double operation 

 and for the slowness in responding to odors, they appeared normal 

 in all other respects. They lived from 1 to 5 days, with 3 days as 

 an average. Their deaths were probably due to the vaseline- 

 beeswax mixture being spread over the spiracles. Their responses 

 to odors were similar to those of intact ants, but more often than 

 with unmutilated ants they vibrated one or more legs. The reaction 

 times are: oil of peppermint 3-12 seconds, average 5.16 seconds; 

 oil of thyme 3-10 seconds, average 4.48 seconds; oil of wintergreen 

 3-10 seconds, average 4.56 seconds; honey and comb 4-25 seconds, 

 average 6.32 seconds; leaves and stems of pennyroyal 3-10 seconds, 

 average 4.92 seconds; formic acid 3-15 seconds, average 5.80 seconds. 

 These give a general average of 5.21 seconds, which is slightly more 

 than twice the same average for unmutilated sister females. May 

 not this slow reaction time be attributed to the fact that many of 

 the pores were prevented from functioning? 



5. Dedlated females of Camponotus. 



During May and June, 1913, 26 dealated females of Camponotus 

 were caught in the woods, either with colonies or just beginning to 

 found colonies. When brought to the laboratory they were put into 

 Fielde nests and queen cages as already described on page 296. 

 Twenty-five of these females were placed singly into the experimental 

 cases. Each one soon became quiet, and then it was tested with the 

 six odors. Their responses were similar to those already described 

 for unmutilated workers of the same species. The reaction times are : 

 oil of peppermint 2-3 seconds, average 2.24 seconds; oil of thyme 

 2-4 seconds, average 2.28 seconds; oil of wintergreen 2-3 seconds, 

 average 2.44 seconds; honey and comb 3-20 seconds, average 6.00 

 seconds; leaves and stems of pennyroyal 2-4 seconds, average 3.00 

 seconds; formic acid 2-12 seconds, average 3.52 seconds. These 

 giv.e a general average of 3.25 seconds. The longevity of these 

 females cannot be given. Only 4 of those confined in queen cages 

 have died up to the time of this writing, May 20, 1914. These 

 4 lived from 3 to 56 days. Not a single one kept in the Fielde 

 nests has yet died. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



6. Glue in wing niches and legs of dedlated females of Camponotus 



covered with vaseline. 



During October the 22 remaining live dealated females of Cam- 

 ponotus were tested with the six odors after the niches from which 

 their wings arise had been filled with liquid glue and the legs had 

 been covered with the vaseline-beeswax mixture. When put into 

 the experimental cases they were as quiet as before they were thus 

 mutilated and seemingly removed but little of the vaseline. They 

 appeared normal in all respects except that they responded to odors 

 more slowly than they did before the glue and vaseline were used. 

 The reaction times are: oil of peppermint 3-15 seconds, average 

 5.64 seconds; oil of thyme 3-15 seconds, average 6.32 seconds; oil 

 of wintergreen 3-10 seconds, average 5.14 seconds; honey and comb 

 3-60 seconds, average 19.00 seconds; five times they failed to respond 

 to the honey odor when the vial was held under them for 60 seconds ; 

 leaves and stems of pennyroyal 4-15 seconds, average 6.32 seconds; 

 formic acid 3-10 seconds, average 5.23 seconds. These give a 

 general average of 7.94 seconds, which is more than twice the reac- 

 tion time obtained by using the same ants before glue was put into 

 the wing niches and vaseline was put on the legs. At the present 

 writing (May 20, 1914) the longevity of these mutilated females 

 cannot be given, for as yet only 5 of them have died. These 5 lived 

 from 7 to 44 days. After being tested, each female was returned 

 to her own nest or cage. Those put back into Fielde nests were at 

 first accepted hostilely by their offspring. This hostility was probably 

 due to the presence of the glue and vaseline. All of those that had 

 workers were sooner or later cleaned, and thus they became normal 

 again. Four of the five that died had no workers and the vaseline 

 spread over the greater portion of the ant's body. Cannot the slow 

 reaction time obtained by using the mutilated females be attributed 

 to the fact that many of the pores were prevented from receiving 

 odor stimuli on account of these pores being covered with glue and 

 vaseline? 



7. Wings of males of Camponotus pulled off. 



The wings of 25 males of Camponotus were pulled off. Usually 

 a small drop of blood exuded from the wound when a wing was pulled 

 off. They were quite restful and were easily tested. They appeared 

 normal in all respects except that they responded to odors more 

 slowly than did their brothers with intact wings. The reaction 

 times are: oil of peppermint 2-5 seconds, average 2.72 seconds; oil 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



of thyme 2-4 seconds, average 2.88 seconds; oil of wintergreen 2-5 

 seconds, average 3.12 seconds; honey and comb 3-10 seconds, average 

 4.56 seconds; leaves and stems of pennyroyal 2-6 seconds, average 

 3.64 seconds; formic acid 3-7 seconds, average 4.00 seconds. These 

 give a general average of 3.49 seconds, which is one and a fourth times 

 the reaction time of unmutilated males. These mutilated males 

 lived from 1 to 24 days, with 7 days and 2 hours as an average. 



The detached wings of these males were examined microscopically. 

 Of the front wings pulled off 45 bore pores and 5 were devoid of 

 pores. Of the hind wings pulled off 4 had pores and 9 were devoid 

 of pores. As stated, the average number of pores for the front 

 wings of the males of this species is 595 and for the hind wings the 

 average number of pores is 173. It is, therefore, evident that 88 

 per cent, of the pores belonging to the wings were prevented from 

 functioning. May not this fact be used to explain the slow reaction 

 time of these wingless males? 



8. Wings of Vespula maculata pulled off. 



The wings of 21 workers of Vespula maculata were pulled off. 

 Only occasionally did a small drop of blood exude from the wounds. 

 When placed into the experimental cases, they were as restless as 

 were their sister winged hornets and they appeared normal in all 

 respects except that they responded more slowly to odors than did 

 the ones with wings. They lived in these cases from 2 days to 

 6 days and 12 hours, with 4 days, and 8 hours as an average. The 

 reaction times are: oil of peppermint 3-20 seconds, average 6.57 

 seconds; oil of thyme 3-15 seconds, average 6.19 seconds; oil of^ 

 wintergreen 3-15 seconds, average 6.29 seconds. These give a general 

 average of 6.35 seconds, which is almost three times the same average 

 for sister hornets with the wings intact. 



The detached wings of these mutilated hornets were examined 

 microscopically. Of the front wings pulled off 29 bore pores and 

 13 were devoid of pores. Of the hind wings pulled off 41 bore pores 

 and 1 was devoid of pores. As stated, the average number of 

 pores for the front wings of these hornets is 1,036 and the average 

 number of pores for the hind wings is 448. It is, therefore, evident 

 that 78 per cent, of the pores belonging to the wings were pre- 

 vented from functioning. May not this fact again be used to 

 explain the slow reaction time of these wingless hornets? 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



9. Summary. 



From the preceding pages it is seen that probably not more than 

 21 per cent, of the pores on the wings of female ants are lost at the 

 time the wings are shed and that the remaining 79 per cent, of the 

 pores are not prevented from functioning because the wings break 

 off at a weak place (text fig. 1 and Plate XI, fig. 25, xx, yy) in the 

 chitin just distal to the groups of pores. The wound caused by the 

 wings breaking off cannot affect the sense cells connected with the 

 pores, because a heavy layer of chitin separates them from the external 

 air. Sections through the thorax of an old dealated female ant show 

 that most of the muscles in the thorax have degenerated, but the nerves 

 running to the wings are still present and the pores in the stubs of the 

 wings are still connected with sense cells. This indicates that the 

 sense organs in the stubs of the wings function throughout the life 

 of the ant. 



All of the results obtained in the experiments on normal and 

 mutilated insects are summarized in the following table. To make 

 the table complete for Hymenoptera and for comparison, the data 

 from the writer's former paper concerning the worker honey bee are 

 appended. The ''three odors" used are those from oil of pepper- 

 mint, oil of thyme, and oil of wintergreen. The "six odors" used 

 are those from oil of peppermint, oil of thyme, oil of wintergreen, 

 honey and comb, leaves and stems of j^ennyroyal, and formic acid. 

 It will be noted that when the antennae of any of the insects listed 

 in the table are mutilated, the insects are abnormal in behavior; 

 but when the pores on the legs and wings are covered, the insects 

 are normal in behavior. The reaction times obtained by using 

 insects with mutilated antennae are slower than those ol^tained when 

 umnutilated individuals are used, but it is quite possible that the 

 slower reaction times are caused by the abnormal behavior of the 

 insects and are not due to the theory that some of the olfactory 

 organs are prevented from functioning. When the wings are pulled 

 off artificially, about three-fourths of the pores on these appendages 

 are lost and the reaction times are slightly slower. When the pores 

 on the legs and wings are covered, the reaction times are more than 

 doubled, while in the honej^ bee the reaction time is increased twelve 

 times. It was impossible to prevent the ants from removing most 

 of the vaseline from the legs. 



99 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Table I. — Olfactory Experiments on Ants, Hornets, and Bees. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



B. DISPOSITION OF THE OLFACTORY PORES OF OTHER 



HYMENOPTERA. 



In making a comparative study of the olfactory pores of Hymenop- 

 tera, 29 species representing 22 families have been used (those of 

 ants and hornets already described included). Since the pores of 

 only one specimen for each species were counted, the total number 

 of pores recorded certainly cannot be a fair average. Besides this 

 error, there is also a probable error of not less than 10 per cent, on an 

 average for all the specimens. In the smaller individuals, particu- 

 larly ants, the probable error is perhaps not more than 2 or 3 per 

 cent., but in the larger specimens, especially the hairy ones, this 

 error is perhaps more than 10 per cent. The pores on only the wings 

 and legs have been included in the total numbers. On all the stings 

 examined, pores have been found. The mouth parts of a few of the 

 specimens were hurriedly examined; all of them bear pores. A few 

 aiitennse were also hurriedly examined. None of the pores first 

 described by Hicks were found on these appendages, but this can be 

 definitely decided only after a critical study of the antennae has been 

 completed. No pores were found on the petiole or other parts of 

 the ant not already named. 



I. Distribution. 



Since all the variations relative to distribution are slight, only 

 the most important ones will be mentioned. In all the species 

 having two segments in the trochanter, the groups of pores ordi- 

 narily found on the femur occur on the second segment of" the tro- 

 chanter. Sometimes groups Nos. 1 and 2 on the front wing are 

 united. At other times group No. 2 is almost divided into two 

 separate groups. The groups of pores are usually located in areas 

 devoid of hairs, but occasionally the groups are closely bordered by 

 hairs. Sometimes a group is surrounded by clear chitin caused 

 by the group lying in an area of thin chitin. In short, the distri- 

 bution of pores of those species placed below the ants in the scheme 

 of classification is similar to the distribution of the pores in ants; 

 the distribution of those species placed above the ants in the scheme 

 of classification is more like to the distribution of pores in the 

 honey bee. 



II. Number. 



In regard to the number of groups and the total number of pores 

 found in the different species, the variations are great. Cimbex, 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



regarded as the lowest hymenopteron, has the least number of 

 groups of all the species examined, but it stands fourth in regard to 

 the number of isolated pores. Its total number of pores is larger 

 than those of many of the higher forms. Among ants the variations 

 are also great. For the legs of ants the number of pores varies from 

 211 to 356 and for the winged ants the total number varies from 

 463 to 1,090. The smallest specimen among the ants and the second 

 smallest one of all the Hymenoptera examined is a female with 463 

 pores as the lowest number. The drone honey bee with 2,608 pores 

 has the highest number. The smallest specimen examined is a wasp 

 with 688 pores. (For further details see table, p. 332.) 



III. Relative Sensitiveness of Species Examined to Odors. 



It was impossible to obtain a sufficient number of live insects of 

 each species examined so that their relative sensitiveness to odors 

 could be experimentally determined. If such had been possible, 

 the reaction times obtained would prollkbly not represent the true 

 relative sensitiveness better than the method described below, 

 because the reaction times depend not only upon the ability to 

 receive odors, but also upon the agility and sluggishness of the 

 insects used. Using only the grand total number of pores of each 

 species examined (see table, pp. 330 to 334) as a basis, it is also impos- 

 sible to ascertain the relative sensitiveness because the numbers are 

 too variable. Moreover, it may be generally said that the smaller 

 the species the fewer and proportionately larger are the pores. 



The method adopted for determining the relative sensitiveness to 

 odors is: (1) determine the relative sizes of the prepared insects; 

 (2) divide the total area of cytoplasm exposed to the air in all the 

 pores of a given insect by the total area of cytoplasm exposed to the 

 air in all the pores of Microgaster, used as a standard; (3) divide the 

 quotient obtained in (2) by the relative size of the given insect. 

 The number resulting by this division is called the relative sensi- 

 tiveness of the given insect. 



Since it seems reasonable that as a general rule the sizes of two 

 hymenopterous insects are proportional to the respective diameters 

 of their femurs at the extreme proximal ends, the femur of the hind 

 leg of each prepared specimen was measured with the aid of a camera 

 lucida. These measurements may be called the relative sizes of the 

 insects and the diameter of the extreme proximal end of the femur 

 belonging to Microgaster may be called 1.00, as a standard by which 

 to calculate the diameters of the other femurs. It was thus ascer- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



tained that the relative sizes of a few of the specimens were less 

 than 1.00, while most of them were greater than 1.00. 



A study of the anatomy of the pores shows that the diameters 

 of the peripheral sense fibers are proportional to the diameters of 

 the flasks. Of course, the greater the diameters of the peripheral 

 sense fibers, the more cytoplasm is exposed to the external air. The 

 diameters of the ends of the sense fibers cannot be measured, but 

 the diameters of the flasks can be accurately measured. To facilitate 

 matters, the largest pore on the femur of the leg measured and the 

 largest one on the front wing of each individual insect were drawTi 

 with the aid of a camera lucida. Figures 43 to 79 represent these 

 pores. The larger pore in each case is from the femur and the 

 smaller one is from the front ^ving. For our purpose each pore maj^ 

 be regarded as a circle having for its diameter the shorter diameter 

 of the pore as shown in the drawings. To obtain the relative sensi- 

 tiveness of all the pores on the legs of a given insect, the diameter 

 of the largest pore on the femur, the total number of pores on the 

 legs and the relative size of the given insect were used. To obtain 

 the relative sensitiveness of all the pores on the legs and wings 

 combined, the diameters of l^oth pores, the grand total number of 

 pores, and the relative size of the given insect were used. 



By this system of calculating it was determined that Cimhex with 

 its 1,216 pores smells 0.87 times as well as Microgaster which has 

 only 622 pores, and only 0.85 times as well as the smallest ant with 

 463 pores. In speaking of the relative sensitiveness obtained by 

 this system of calculating, a large probable error must always be 

 allowed and the figures only approximately represent the truth. 

 Allowing for the -probable error, all the winged individuals, except 

 three, placed between Cimhex and Ceropales in the table seem to 

 have the olfactory sense about equally developed. The three 

 exceptions are the ichneumon-fly (Megarhyssa), the female ant of 

 Aphcenogaster, and the male ant of Camponotus, all three of which 

 seem to smell slightly better than the others. The males of Campo- 

 notus probably smell slightly better than the females of the same 

 genus and considerably better than the winged forms of Formica. 

 The small workers of Camponotus seem to smell slightly better than 

 their large sisters and considerably better than the large workers 

 of Formica and of C. mela. According to the reaction times obtained 

 in determining the relative sensitiveness to odors of ants, the males 

 of Camponotus receive odor stimuli considerably better than the 

 workers and females of the same genus, but about as well as do the 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



winged forms of Formica. The quicker reaction time of Formica is 

 probably due to the fact that Formica is more agile than Camponotus. 

 Based on reaction times, the small workers of Campofiotus smell 

 slightly better than their large sisters. Judging from the total 

 number of pores, the winged forms of any species of ants smell 

 considerably better than the workers of the same species. 



Among the wasps the relative sensitiveness is tolerably well 

 graduated from the lowest to the highest species as listed in the 

 table. Instead of the two social wasps, Polistes and Vespula, having 

 the highest relative sensitiveness, they seem to take second place, 

 while the first place is held by the guest wasp, Pseudomasaris, and 

 the solitary wasp, Monohia. 



Among the bees the relative sensitiveness is also tolerably well 

 graduated from Andrena, the lowest examined, to Apis, the highest. 

 This system of calculating shows that the worker honey bee smells 

 considerably better than the queen and equally as well as the drone. 

 Reaction times show that drones smell slightly better than workers 

 and considerably better than queens. It is thus seen that the honey 

 bee has. the most highly developed olfactory sense of the Hymenop- 

 tera, while that of ants is considerably inferior. 



Based upon reaction times, the relative sensitiveness to odors of 

 insects depends not only upon their ability to receive odor stimuli, 

 but also upon their agility and sluggishness in responding when the 

 olfactory organs are stimulated. To illustrate this point, the 

 workers of Camponotus are more agile than the workers of Apis, and 

 for this reason probably alone they respond more quickly to odors. 

 Judging from only their reaction times, the former smell better than 

 the latter, but in all probability the reverse is the truth. The ability 

 to receive odor stimuli depends upon the development of the entire 

 nervous system, including the olfactory apparatus, and upon the 

 physiological state of the insect being tested. At the mating time 

 the winged females of ants certainly smell as well and probably much 

 better than the workers of the same species. As long as the recently 

 fertilized females perform all duties necessary in bringing their first 

 brood to maturity, they certainly retain almost the same degree of 

 acuteness in smelling as before; but when they become a mere egg- 

 laying machine and perform none of the nest duties, their ability to 

 receive odor stimuli is probably less acute. It is thus seen that the 

 physiological state is an important factor when the relative sensi- 

 tiveness is considered, and we have little means of knowing just 

 what physiological condition a given insect is in when it is being 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



tested. To decide definitely about the relative sensitiveness to 

 odors of insects, it is, therefore, necessary to consider (1) the degree 

 of agility or sluggishness in responding when stimulated; (2) the 

 degree of development of the entire nervous system, including the 

 'olfactory apparatus; and (3) the physiological state or condition 

 in which the insects are in when being tested. 



Table II. — The Number of Olfactory Pores and the Relative Sensitive- 

 ness of Various Species of Hymenoptera. 



The letters "F," "M," "H," and ''G" stand for front, middle, 

 hind, and grand, in the order named. The "Total" means all the 

 pores found on all six legs, and the "G. total" means all the pores 

 found on all six legs and all four wings combined. "1 R. Sen." 

 means the relative sensitiveness to odors of an insect based on the 

 morphology of the olfactory pores found on the legs; "2 R. Sen." 

 means the same based on the grand total number of pores. 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 





o 



IS 





vinhn 

 jt,djsv6ouaoi(dY 



•sa.iod 

 p9;'Bpsi JO -o^ 



•sdnoaS 

 ut sajod JO -o^ 



•sdnojS JO -oj^ 



•saaod 

 p9!:^'B|OSt JO -o^ 



•p9ijt;uapi 



•sdno.i§ 



UI S9J0d JO -o^ 



•sdnojS JO -oj^ 



•a'aiaisiHHQ 



■daq^ 



SUdpUf 



•saaod 

 pa:^'BpsT JO -0^ 



•sdnoaS 

 UI s9Jod JO -ojsj; 



•sdnojS JO -ojN^ 



•a^aiiNVAg 



•uuiq^ 

 ddjsvdipudddv 



■S9J0d 



pa^-Bpsi JO -o^ 



Ul S9J0d 



sdnojS 

 P 'ON 



•sdnojS JO -o^ 



'a'aiNOOVHg 



aodjsaiaviu 



J^dJSVSOdDtJ^ 



•S9J0d 



pa'^'BpsT JO -o^ 



UT S9JOd 



sdnoj§ 

 JO -ON 



■sdnojS JO -o^ 



T-H iM O 

 CO CO CO 



O 05 

 •^ CO CO 



CM 





1-1 o 

 coo 



00 00 00 



cOtH 



CO 



^ ^ o 

 COCO'* 



1— 1 00 i-H 



-^ CO '^ 





CO 

 CD 



-* 



ooo 

 lo 00 



00 00 00 



CO-* 



CI GO Oi 

 CO "* (M 



'Tfi (M C<1 



00 



_co_ 



o 

 o 



CM 



^ CM 



O CM 



ooo 



0-* 



O C<1 o 



00 oo 

 CO o) 1— I 



CM 

 CM 

 CM 



00 

 _CM_ 



o 

 00 



O^ CM 



ooo 



CM 



CM 



>— I C5 O 



CM CO CO 



c^i o CO 



-<:*< CO-* 



CM 



CM 

 CM 



O 



C2 CM 



1— I C5 

 CO 



OOO 



O'* 



00 



CM 



oco 



»0 CM 



T-iO 



OO 

 OOrH 



1—1 CO 

 t^ o 



oo 



o o 



•a^'aiNOHaaNHOi 



jLoivani 

 vssriiiJivddj^ 



•saaod 



p9:^BIOSI JO -oj^ 



o to 00 



CO CM CO 



ut sajod 



sdnoj3 

 P'ON 



O CM 00 

 OO-* 



CM 



T— I 



GO 



■*co 

 '^ o 

 CO 1—1 



•sdno.i§ JO -o^ 



00 o o 



O'* 



o 



CO 



i^aiNiaaaHXNax 



•^•lOK 



ayxoownff 



viriiidoj,3vpi 



■saaod 



pa^-BIOST JO -o^ 



•sdno.i§ 

 P'OK 



UI S9.I0d 



■sdnojS JO 'o^ 



•:^aioiaMi;3 



•qo'B9q 

 xdqiuiQ 



•S9JOd 

 p9'^'BpSI JO -O^ 



UI S9J0d 



sdno.i§ 

 JO "ON 



•sdnoj§ JO -o^ 



CO --I t^ 



co»o^ 



CO ^ 00 

 ooo 



o 



CM 



CO 



o 

 00 



CO I>- 



O lO 



CO ^H 



OiOO 



o-^ 



CM CM GO 

 1— I O 1— I 



t^CM ■* 



i-H I— I CM 



CO 



CM 



O 

 1— I 

 CM 



CM »0 

 t-l CSI 



t-H O 



Ot- 



t^OO 



OO 



00 CO 

 o t^ 



■* CO 



05 CMCO 



o-* 



III 



O 



c.S -2 



MM 

 T-ICM 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



331 





o 



M 



H 



o 

 o 




332 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



333 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



Discussion. 



In regard to the location of the olfactory organs in insects several 

 views have been held. Lehmann (1799) tries to analogize the 

 spiracles of insects with the noses of vertebrates. Comparetti 

 (1800) places the seat of smell in different parts for different families 

 as follows: The club of the antennae in lamellicorn beetles, the 

 proboscis in Lepidoptera and certain frontal cells in Orthoptera. 

 Ramdohr (1811) mistakes the salivary glands in the head for the 

 olfactory apparatus. Rosenthal (1811) regards a folded skin beneath 

 the antennae as the seat of the olfactory organs. Huber (1814) 

 considers the mouth cavity of the honey bee as the seat of olfaction. 

 Treviranus (1816) thinks that the oesophagus is the seat of the 

 olfactory apparatus. Kirby and Spence (1826) regard the rhinarium 

 or nostril-piece as the seat of the organs of smell. Burmeister 

 (1836) considers that insects smell with what he calls the "internal 

 superior surface." Paasch (1873) claims that a plate between the 

 eyes and beneath the antenna? is the seat of the olfactory organs. 

 Wolff (1875) calls the hairlike organs on the epipharynx of the honey 

 bee the olfactory apparatus. Joseph (1877) claims to have found 

 an olfactory region near the spiracles which communicates with the 

 tracheae. 



After having cut off the antennae of two male moths, Duges (1838) 

 says that the insects were unable to find a female that they had 

 previously been able to locate while their antennae were intact. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Blow-flies with the antennae cut off fail to find putrid meat as 

 before. 



Lefebvre (1838) experimented with bees and wasps with mutilated 

 antennae. He thinks that the olfactory organs are located at the 

 extremities of the antennae. 



Perris (1850) says: (1) In amputating the extremity of the 

 antennae the olfactory sense is not destroyed, but it is weakened, and 

 by cutting them off at the base the sense of smell is totally or par- 

 tially destroyed; (2) covering the antennae with a layer of India 

 rubber renders these organs insensible; (3) sometimes a little sensi- 

 bility is shown when the palpi are amputated. 



Cornalia (1856) experimented with mutilated male moths. He 

 thinks that the seat of olfaction lies in both the antennae and palpi. 



Garnier (1860) denies that the antennae of Necrophagus are the 

 seat of the olfactory organs, because these beetles returned imme- 

 diately to the body of a mole from which they had been removed. 



Balbiani (1866) says that male butterflies with the antennae cut 

 off fail to respond, as do unmutilated males, to females in any manner. 



Grimm (1869) after many experiments concludes that the antennae 

 of beetles do not function as olfactory organs. 



Forel (1874, 1885) says that ants when deprived of their antennae 

 cannot guide themselves and are not able to distinguish companions 

 from enemies or to discover food placed at their sides. When 

 deprived of the anterior part of the head and of the entire abdomen 

 they preserve all their faculties. The same author (1878) found that 

 a wasp with the anterior part of the head cut off responded to a needle 

 dipped in honey, while a wasp with both antennae cut off failed to 

 respond. Forel (1908) says that carrion-feeding beetles with the 

 antennae cut off cannot find putrid meat as before the antennae are 

 mutilated. 



Hauser (1880) studied the behavior of various insects before and 

 after the removal of the antennae. When the antennae were cut off, 

 many individuals soon became sick and died, although some of them 

 lived thereafter for many days. In insects with their antennae 

 dipped into melted paraffin, the behavior was similar to that of those 

 with the antennae amputated. After performing many experiments 

 with Philonthus ceneus, he concludes that these insects lose the 

 olfactory sense by the removal of the antennae. Experiments with 

 species of several other genera gave the same results, but those with 

 beetles of the genera Carahus, Melolontha, and Silpha were less 

 satisfactory. These never completely failed to respond to strong- 

 smelling substances. Experiments with Hemiptera gave a still less 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



favorable result. After the loss of the antennae, these insects reacted 

 almost as well as they did with their antennae intact. 



Porter (1883) thinks that the antennae of butterflies and some 

 other insects have nothing to do with olfaction. Some insects are 

 affected little, if at all, by the extirpation of the antennae, while 

 others become very sick after the loss of these appendages. 



Graber (1885) contends that ants {Formica rufa) and flies (Lucilia 

 coesar) and beetles {Silpha thoracica) without their antennae still 

 possess the sense of smell. He is inclined to the view that insects 

 do not have any special olfactory organ, and that when the odorifer- 

 ous emanations are intense they may be perceived by the surfaces 

 of the body which are covered with thin chitin and which are provided 

 with terminal excitable nerves. 



Plateau (1886) says that in Blatta the antennae are the olfactory 

 organs. Graber (1887) repeated Plateau's experiments by using 

 many cockroaches, and declares that in these insects the antennae 

 actually function as olfactory organs, but this is not true for all 

 insects. 



Fielde (1901, 1903, 1907) claims that the eleventh or distal segment 

 of the antennae of ants perceives the nest odor; the tenth segment, 

 the colony odor; the ninth segment, the individual track; the eighth 

 and seventh, the inert young; and the sixth and fifth, the odor of 

 enemies. Miss Fielde clipped the antennae with sharp scissors, and 

 15 days after the operation about 40 per cent, of the ants recovered 

 from the effect of the shock. "Before their recovery the ants were 

 listless and abnormally irritable; and they attacked with self- 

 destructive violence any moving thing that touched them." She 

 also found that queen ants deprived of their antennae did not behave 

 normally. 



Barrows (1907) says that gum on the antennae of Drosophila 

 ampelophila does not keep out odors, nor could the antennae be 

 burnt off without considerable injury to the flies. He etherized some 

 flies and cut off the terminal segment bearing sense cones with fine 

 scissors, and he declares that the ether did not affect the results of the 

 experiments with odors. He says: "It therefore seems certain 

 that the sense of smell is absent, or at least greatly reduced in flies 

 that have lost the terminal joints of the antennae." 



Kellogg (1907) informs us that male silkworm moths with extir- 

 pated antennae are unal)le to find the females unless by accident. 



From the foregoing it is seen that about one-fourth of all the 

 writers who have experimented on insects with nmtilated antennae 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



assert that these appendages do not carry the olfactory organs. 

 Most of the observers have failed to state whether or not the insects 

 used were normal. The inactivity of most of their insects indicates 

 abnormality. With Miss Fielde's ants, only 40 per cent, recovered 

 from the effect of the shock, and in all probability all of these were 

 more or less abnormal. The writer has found that when the antennae 

 of ants, wasps, and bees are mutilated in the slightest degree the 

 insects are always more or less abnormal in behavior. 



Hicks (1857, 1859, 1860) first discovered the organs called the 

 olfactory pores in this paper on the halteres and on the bases of the 

 wings of all Diptera examined; on the bases of all four wings of the 

 four-winged tribes; on the trochanter and femur of all insects, and 

 occasionally on the tibia. He examined many species representing 

 various insect orders and found these pores even on the lower insects, 

 such as the earwig. In such wingless insects as the worker and 

 soldier ants, he infers that these pores are much more abundant on 

 the legs than they are on these appendages in the winged insects. 

 Hicks suggested an olfactory function for all of these pores, whether 

 on the legs or wings, but he performed no experiments of any kind. 

 His drawings represent only the superficial appearance of the pores. 



Janet (1904, 1907) found porelike sense organs in large numbers 

 in all the ants that he examined. They occur on the mouth parts, 

 legs, and he saw a few on the thorax at the base of the wing of a queen 

 ant. His drawings of the superficial aspects of all these pores are 

 very similar to those seen by the writer, but he has failed to under- 

 stand the internal anatomy. He calls the chitinous cone an umbel, 

 which is always separated from the surrounding chitin by a chamber. 

 The chamber communicates with the exterior by means of a pore. 

 The sense fiber, or his manubrium, runs into the umbel, and he 

 thinks that it spreads out over the inner surface of the umbel and 

 does not open into the chamber. Thus the umbel forms a thin 

 layer of chitin which separates the end of the sense fiber from the 

 external air. 



In conclusion, it seems that the organs called the olfactory pores 

 in this paper are the true olfactory apparatus in Hymenoptera and 

 that the antennae play no part in receiving odor stimuli. 




338 proceedings of the academy of [apr., 



Literature Cited. 



Balbiani, E. G. 1866. Note sur les antennes servant aux insectes pour la 



recherche des sexes. Ann. Soc. Ent. France, t. 6, (4), Bui., p. xxxviii. 

 Barrows, W. M. 1907. The reactions of the pomace fly, Drosophila ampelo- 



phila Loew, to odorous substances. Journ. E.xp. ZooL, vol. 4, pp. 515-537. 

 BuRMEisTER, H. 1836. Manual of Entomology, translation by ^^^ E. Shuckard, 



pp. 297, 298. 

 Comparetti. 1800. Dinamica animale degli insetti, II, Padoue, p. 442. 

 CoRNALiA. 1856. Monografia del bombice del gelso. Memoria dall' I. R. 



Institute Lombardo di Scienze, Milan, pp. 304-305. 

 DiiGES. 1838. Traite de physiologie comparce, t. 1, pp. 160, 161. 

 Field, A. M. 1901. Further study of an ant. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



vol. 53, pp. 521-544. 



1903. Artificial mixed nests of ants. Biol. Bui., vol. 5, No. 6, November, 



pp. 320-325. 



1907. Suggested explanations of certain phenomena in the lives of ants, 



with a method of tracing ants to their respective communities. Biol. Bui., 

 vol. 13, No. 3, August, pp. 134-137. 



FoREL, AuGUSTE. 1874. Les fourmis de la Suisse. Ouvrage Soc. Helvetique 

 des Sci. Nat. 



1878. Der Giftapparat und die Analdrlisen der Ameisen. Zeitsch. f. 



wiss. Zoolo Bd. 30. Supplementary note on p. 61. 



1885. Etudes myrmecologiques en 1884. Bui. Soc. Vaudoise Sci. Nat., 



vol. 20, (2), No. 91, p. 334. 



1908. The senses of insects. English translation by Yearsley, London, 



pp. 95-96. 



Garnier, M. J. 1860. De I'usage des antennes chez les insectes. Mem. 



d'Acad. des Sci. d'Amiens, t. 1, (2), pp. 489-501. 

 Graber, Veit. 1885. Vergleichende Grundversuche fiber die Wirkung und 



die Aufnahme-stellen chemischer Reize bei den Tieren. Biol. Central- 



blatt, Bd. 5, Nr. 13, pp. 385-398. 



1887. Neue Versuche liber die Function der Insektenfiihler. Biol. 



Centralblatt, Bd. 7, Nr. 1, pp. 13-19. 



Grimm, O. V. 1869. Beitrag zur Anatomic der Fuhler der Insekten. Bui. 



I'Acad. Imp. des Sci. de St. Petersbourg, t. 14, pp. 66-74. 

 Hauser, Gustav. 1880. Physiologische und histologische Untersuchungen 



iiber das Geruchsorgan der Insekten. Zeitsch. f. wiss. ZooL, Bd. 34, Heft 



3, pp. 367-403, with 2 pis. 

 Hicks, J. B. 1857. On a new organ in insects. Journ. Linn. Soc. London, 



ZooL, vol. 1, pp. 136-140, with 1 pi. 



1859. Further remarks on the organs found on the bases of the halteres 



and wings of insects. Trans. Linn. Soc. London, ZooL, vol. 22, pp. 141-145, 

 with 2 pis. 



1860. On certain sensory organs in insects, hitherto undescribed. Trans. 



Linn. Soc. London, ZooL, vol. 23, pp. 139-153, with 2 pis. 



HuBER, Francois. 1814. Nouvelle observations sur les abeilles, 2"" edit., t. 2. 



pp. 375-393. 

 Janet, Charles. 1904. Observations sur les fourmis. Limoges, pp. 17-22. 



1907. Anatomic du corselet et histolyse des muscles vibrateurs, apres 



le vol nuptial, chez la rcine de la fourmis {Laaiits niger). Limoges, pp. 46-48. 



Joseph, G. 1877. L^eber Sitz und Bau der Gcruchsorgane bei den Insekten. 



Ber. 50. Vers. Deutscher Naturf. und Aerzte, Miinchen, pp. 174-176. 

 Kellogg, V. L. 1907. Some silkworm-moth reflexes. Biol. BuL, vol. 12, 



No. 3, February, pp. 152-154. 

 KiRBY AND Spence. 1820. Introduction to entomology, vol. 3, pp. 455, 456, 



and vol. 4, pp. 249-255. 

 Lefebvre, Alex. 1838. Note sur le sentiment olfactif des antennes. Ann. 



Soc. Ent., France, t. 7, pp. 395-399. 

 Lehmann. 1799. De usu antennarum, Leipsig, p. 27. 

 McIndoo, N. E. 1914. The olfactory sense of the honey bee. Journ. Exj). 



ZooL, vol. 16, No. 3, April, pp. 265-346, with 24 figs. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



339 



Paasch, a. 1873. Von den Sinnesorganen der Insektcn im allgemeinen, von 



Geh()i- und Gorurhsorganen im besondern. Troschel's Arch, f . Naturgesch., 



39. Jahrg.. pp. 248-275. 

 Perris Ed 18.50. Memoire sur le Siege de I'Odorat dans les Articules. Ann. 



Sci'. Nat., Zool., t. 14, (3), pp. 149-178. 

 Plateau, Felix. 1886. Una experience sur la fonction des ant.ennes chez la 



blatt'e {Periphvuia orientalis). Bui. Comptes Rendus des Seances Ann. 



Soc. ent. Belgique, t. 30, pp. 118-122. 

 Porter C J. A. 1883. Experiments with the antennae of insects. Amer. 



Naturalist, vol. 17, pp. 1238-1245. 

 Ramdohr. 1811. Ueber die Organe des Geruchs und Gehors der gememen 



Biene. Magazin der Gesellschaft naturf. Freunde zu Berlin, 5. Jahrg., 



pp. 386-390. 

 Rosenthal. 1811. Ueber den Geruchssinn der Insekten. Reil's Arch. f. die 



Physiologie, t. 10, Halle, p. 427. 

 Treviranus. 1816. Ueber den Sitz des Geruchssmns bey den Insekten. 



Vermischte Schriften anat. und physioL, Bd. 1, Gottingen, pp. 146-155. 

 Wolff, O. J. B. 1875. Das Riechorgan der Biene nebst einer Beschreibung 



des Respirationswerkes der Hymenopteren, etc. Nova Acta der Kls. 



Leop-Carol, Deut. Akad. der Naturf., vol. 38, pp. 1-251, with pis. I-VIII. 



Explanation of Plates XI, XII. 



All figures, except those in the text, are from camera lucida drawings made at 

 the base of the microscope. All drawings, except the text figures and Plate 

 XI, fig. 25, and Plate XII, fig. 26, are enlarged 875 diameters. These were 

 made with V and S4 oc. and xV oil imm. 



Abbreviations. 



C coxa. 



Ch chitin. 



ChL chitinous layer. 



Con chitinous cone. 



F femur. 



Hr hair. 



HrMS hair-mother cell. 



Hyp hypodermis . 



HypS hypodermal cell. 



HypSt hypodermal strand. 



M muscle. 



Mo mouth. 



N nerve. 



NB nerve branch. 



NF nerve fiber. 



Nic niche in which wing arises. 



NkFl neck of flask. 



PorAp pore aperture. 



PorB pore border. 



PorW pore wall. 



SC sense cell. 



SF sense fiber. 



SCNuc sense cell nucleus. 



SCNucl sense cell nucleolus. 



T trachea. 



Tb tibia. 



Tr trochanter. 



a outer margin of cone. 



aa thick chitin around flask. 



a to d groups of isolated pores. 



b inner margin of cone. 



c lowest strata of chitin. 



d outermost strata of chitin. 



e strata forming "chitinous 



layer." 



f middle strata of chitin. 



XX weak place in chitin of front 



wing where wing breaks 



off. 

 yy weak place in chitin of hind 



wing where wing breaks 



off. 

 1 to 9 groups of pores. 



Plate XI. — Fig. 3. — Group No. 8 from trochanter of female of Formica, showing 



superficial appearance of pores. ^ 



Fig. 4. — Two pores and three hairs from tibia of female of Fonnica, showing 



superficial appearance. 

 Fig. 5. — Group No. 1 on front wing of female of Formica, showing superficial 



appearance. 

 Fig. 6. — Cross-section of one of largest pores and sense cell from tibia of 



female of Formica, showing internal anatomy. 



23 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Fig. 7. — One of smallest pores from tibia of female of Formica. 



Fig. 8. — Two pores from group No. 2 on front wing of female of Formica. 



Fig. 9. — Two pores from group No. 3 on front wing of female of Formica. 



Fig. 10. — Two pores from group No. 4 on hind wing of female of Formica. 



Fig. 11. — Two pores from group No. 5 on hind wing of female of Formica. 



Fig. 12. — Six pores and a bunch of sense cells as actually seen in group No. 2 

 on front wing of female of Formica. 



Fig. 13. — Three pores, one sense cell, and hypodermis as actually seen in 

 group No. 7 on trochanter of female of Formica. 



Fig. 14. — Two pores with sense cells and hypodermis as actually seen in 

 group No. 8 on trochanter of female of Formica. 



Fig. 15. — Pore from group No. 6 on trochanter of female of Formica. 



Fig. 16. — Isolated pore from group h on trochanter of female of Formica. 



Fig. 17. — Two pores from a group on trochanter of dealated female of 

 C. pennsylvanicus. 



Fig. 18. — One of largest isolated pores from trochanter of dealated female 

 of C. pennsylvanicus. 



Fig. 19. — One of smallest isolated pores from same trochanter as in fig. 18. 



Fig. 20. — Three pores from group No. 2 on front wing of old winged female 

 of C. mela. 



Fig. 21. — Three pores from group No. 3 on same wing as in fig. 20. 



Fig. 22. — Three pores from group No. 2 on front wing of old winged male 

 of C. mela. 



Fig. 23. — Four pores and bunch of sense cells from stub of wing of old 

 dealated female of C. pennsylvanicus. This female had been kept in 

 captivity eight months before killed. 



Fig. 25. — Semidiagram of cross-section of front wing of female of Formica, 

 showing innervation of groups Nos. 2 and 3. X 280. As in fig. 26, harcl 

 chitin of wing is represented by solid black; soft articular chitin of wing 

 by dots, and hard chitin of thorax by broken lines. Owing to the broken 

 condition of the chitin, the nerves (N) could not be traced into these 

 wings, but they were traced into the wings of the honey bee and mud- 

 dobber. 

 Plate XII. — Fig. 26. — Semidiagram of cross-section of hind wing of female of 

 Formica, showing innervation of groups Nos. 4 and 5. X 280. 



Figs. 27 to 32, inclusive, are cross-sections through pores of hornet {Vespula 

 maculata). Fig. 27: One of largest pores, and fig. 28 is one of smallest 

 pores from tibia. Neither pore aperture was seen in section. Fig. 29: 

 Three pores on trochanter cut oblicjuely, showing pore apertures. Fig. 30: 

 One of smallest pores from a group on trochanter, showing sense cell. 

 Pore aperture was not visible. Fig. 31: Pore from femur. Fig. 32: 

 Three pores from front wing. 



Figs. 33 to 41, inclusive, are cross-sections through pores of muddobber 

 {Sceliphron cementarius) . Figs. 33 and 34: Two pores from two different 

 groups on trochanter. Figs. 35 and 36: One of largest and one of smallest 

 isolated pores from trochanter. Fig. 37: Pore from group on fenun*. 

 Fig. 38: Shows origin of internal anatomy of a large pore and sense cell 

 from tibia. Fig. 39: One of smallest pores from tibia. Fig. 40: Three 

 pores from group No. 2 on front wing. Fig. 41: Pore from thorax at 

 base of niche near articulation of front wing. 



Fig. 42. — Pore and sense cell from tibia of a worker honey bee. 



Figs. 43-79 show the relative sizes of the superficial appearances of pores 

 of various hymenopterous insects. In each figure, the larger pore is from 

 the femur and the smaller one is from the front wing. These pores are 

 the largest ones seen on these appendages. Below in the order named 

 are given (1) the figure number, (2) the name of insect, and (3) the relative 

 size of the insect. The relative sizes of the various insects were found as 

 explained on page 326. 



Vig. 43. — Citnbcx (tmcricana 6.00 



Fig. 44. — Macrophyla flavicoxce .- 1 .75 



Fig. 45. — Megarhyssa lunator 3.33 




1914.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 



g. 46. — Microgaster tnamestrce 1.00 



g. 47. — Evaiiia appcndigaster 2.40 



g. iS.^Chrysis tridens 2.41 



g. 49.— 9 Ant (not identified) 0.56 



g. 50. — 9 Aphocnogasier aquia 0.74 



g. 51. — 9 Lasius (diena 1.37 



g. 52. — ^ Major Fo/v/H'm ohficuriverdris 1.41 



g. 53. — 9 Formica obHcuriverdris : 2.00 



g. 54. — cf Formica obscuriverdris 1.77 



g. 55. — § '^ia]OV Cam ponotus mela 2.50 



g. 56. — 9 C. pennsylvanicus, black var 2.00 



g. 57. — ^ Minor C. pennsylvanicus, brown var 2.22 



g. 58. — ^ Major C pennsylvanicus, brown var 2.59 



g. 59. — 9 Dealated C. pennsylvanicus, brown var 3.00 



g. 60. — d^ Winged C. pennsylvanicus, brown var 1.85 



g. 61. — Ceropales fraterna 2.25 



g. 62. — Sceliphron cemeniarius 3.35 



g. 63. — Larropsis distincta 2.22 



g. 64. — Phila n th us p n nctala 2 . 00 



g. Q>b.^Mimesa Kohli 0.90 



g. 66. — Stigmus universitatus 0.53 



g. 67. — Trypoxylon frigidum 4.00 



g. 68. — Solenius irderruptus 2.40 



g. 69. — Pseudomasaris vespoides 3. 10 



g. 70. — Monobia guadridens 3. 15 



g. 71. — Polistes nestor 3. 14 



g. 72. — Vespula maculata 4.44 



g. 73. — Anclrena vicina 3.00 



g. 74. — Megachile brevis 2. 15 



g. 75. — Psithyrus sp 3.70 



g. 76. — Bombus sp 3.52 



g. 77. — 5 Apis mellifica 3.00 



g. 78. — 9 Apis mellifica 3.90 



g. 79. — cf Apis mellifica 3.71 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW BLENNY FROM NEW JERSEY, WITH NOTES ON 

 OTHER FISHES FROM THE MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



During 1912 and the past year, a number of local collections have 

 been acquired by the Academy. Many afford new or interesting 

 localities, which are grouped according to the several States. Though 

 multitudes of the commoner species were examined at the fisheries, 

 usually small collections and small specimens were obtained where 

 possible. 



New Jersey. 



Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). 



Examined a large one on the beach at Corson's Inlet, June 20, 1913. 

 At this locality on June 19 saw Fundulus heteroclitus macrolejyidotus, 

 Poronotus triacanthus, Cynoscion regalis, Chiloniyderus schnepfi, and 

 Lophius piscatorius. On June 20 and 21, saw Anguilla chrisypa, 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus, Fistularia tabacaria, Hippo- 

 campus hudsonius, Cynoscion regalis, Bairdiella chrysura, Scicenops 

 oceUatus, Menticirrhus saxatilis, Pogonias cromis, Monacanthus hispi- 

 dus, and Paralichthys dentatus. The Fistularia was preserved, having 

 been taken in the summer of 1912, and was about 15 inches long. 



Several selachians have been reported to me on apparently trust- 

 worthy authoiity. They are: 



Alopias vulpes. 



One 16 feet long, taken in the pounds at Sea Isle City in IMay, 

 1900. T. Kupfer. 



Scoliodon terrae-novae. 



One about 3 feet long, examined by Mr. W. J. Fox, was para- 

 sitized with numerous female copepods (Pandarus sinuatus), which 

 were preserved. This shark was secured May 31, 1913, and the 

 fishermen reported several more shortly afterward. 

 Squatina squatina. 



One reported at Ocean City on December 31, 1912, and another in 

 the same month at Stone Harbor, credited with being four feet long. 



Dorosoma cepedianum (I.c Sueur). 



Dr. R. J. Phillips secured an adult at Corson's Inlet, October 16, 

 1913, taken in a mullet-net. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Synodus foetens (Linnseus"). 



One received from Dr. Phillip.s, taken in the summer of 1912, at 

 Corson's Inlet, with Atopichthys, Gasterosteus acideatus, and Lagodon 

 rhomhoides. Mr. D. McCadden secured an example at Ocean City 

 on September 17, 1912. 



Felichthys marinus (Mitchill). 



An adult from Corson's Inlet, secured on August 19, 1912, by 

 Mr. Fox. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 



Many examples, about ten inches long, obtained by Mr. McCadden, 

 on August 11, 1912, at Ocean City. August 30, 1913, at the same 

 locality, he obtained a young Prionotus evolans strigatus, and found 

 Seriola zonata abundant. 



Tylosurus raphidoma (Ranzani). 



Dr. Phillips secured a large example on August 15, 1913, taken in 

 the pounds at Sea Isle City. Several other examples were also 

 taken. The species appears to be frequent off our coast in the 

 summer. 

 Sphyraena borealis De Kay. 



A small one was secured in the bay at Corson's Inlet, on August 

 2. 1913, by Dr. Phillips. 



Trichiurus lepturus Linnseus. 



Mr. Fox reported one at Sea Isle City on July 5, 1912, and another 

 on July 16, which last contained numerous small whitish eggs. A 

 third example was taken in Great Egg Harbor Bay at Ocean City, 

 July 30, 1913, and notice sent to me by Mr. W. B. Davis. 



Caranx hippos (Linnaeus). 



A small example was obtained at Corson's Inlet on September 7, 

 1913, and another a little larger on September 8, by Dr. Phillips. 

 Rachycentron canadus (Linnaeus). 



Mr. Fox secured an example, 30 inches long, at Sea Isle City, 

 on August 12, 1912. 



Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linnsus). 



Five small ones were caught at Corson's Inlet on September 20, 

 1913, and forwarded by Dr. Phillips. When caught, they grunted. 



Sciaenops ocellatus (Linnaeus). 



Dr. Phillips secured a small one at Corson's Inlet on September 

 8, 1913, and about the same time Mr. McCadden got a large one at 

 Ocean City. Both these specimens were infested with lerneans. 




344 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Apr., 



Blennius foxi sp. nov. 



Head 3^; depth 3|; D. XI, 15; A. 18; P. 14; V. i,3; head width 



'3 ) 



If in its length; head depth at ventral origin 1|; snout 3^; eye 3|; 

 maxillary 2f ; interorbital space 2 in eye; first dorsal spine about 

 If in head; tenth dorsal ray about If; tenth anal ray about 2\; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f; caudal fin If; tenth pectoral 

 ray 1|; ventral 2. 



Body elongate, well compressed, contour elongately ellipsoid, with 

 greatest depth at pectoral base. Caudal peduncle well compressed, 

 short. 



Head large, compressed, rather pointed, anterior upper profile 

 moderately oblique, moderately convex sides slightly more wide 

 below than above. Snout short, profile oblique, surface convex, 

 slightly shorter than broad. Eye large, high, rounded, and anterior 



in head, centre falling slightly behind first third in length of head. 

 Pupil horizontally ellipsoid. Supraorbital cirrus large, its length 

 about equals postorbital portion of head, and with two smaller 

 filaments each side basally. Mouth moderate, terminal, and jaws 

 about even, gape below upper basal edge of pectoral. Lips broad, 

 fleshy. Maxillary large, slightly inclined, and nearly extending 

 back opposite centre of eye. Teeth simple, close-set, and about 

 17 in each jaw. Also each jaw with a posterior canine on each side 

 posteriorly (thus 4 in all), and the upper a little anterior to middle 

 in length of maxillary as viewed laterally. Mandi])le strong, convex 

 over surface, and rami not much elevated inside mouth. Tongue 

 thick, fleshy, little free, and far back. Nostrils separated, though 

 rather close, and near middle in length of snout. Interorbital 

 narrowly concave. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Gill-openings entirely lateral, large, each about equal in length to 

 combined ,snout and eye, and extend forward last third in length of 

 heatl. Interior not examined. 



Body scaleless, with smooth skin. Mucous system well developed 

 on head, especiallj' along preopercle ridge. L. 1. system at first 

 somewhat distinct, high, or close to back, and towards end of pectoral 

 sloping down till midway along side, when obscure to caudal base. 



Dorsals little differentiated, spines similar to simple rays, slightly 

 more pungent, both rays and spines more or less uniform and covered 

 with membrane, edge of fin entire. Dorsal origin little before 

 hind edge of preopercle. Rayed dorsal well separated behind from 

 caudal peduncle, and anal fin similar. Anal with edge notched, 

 rays graduated down to shortest anteriorly, and fin inserted a little 

 nearer snout tip than caudal base. Caudal moderately long, hind 

 edge rounded. Pectoral large, graduated to ninth ray, which 

 longest, and lower rays less graduated and thickened. Ventral 

 inserted slightly before spinous dorsal origin, extends back slightlj^ 

 more than half way to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color when fresh largely various shades of neutral tint, with dorsal 

 and anal slightly darker. Head marked with dark blotches of neu- 

 tral tint, which somewhat obscurely defined, and radiate from eye. 

 Trunks with seven vertical broad dark bands, wider or equal to the 

 interspaces, and each with several whitish spots or blotches variously 

 distributed within their boundaries. These dark vertical bands 

 also reflected more or less on bases of dorsals. Iris brownish. Cirrus 

 dusky. Dorsals deep neutral tint, without pale edge, and membrane 

 between first two spines blackish. Anal with free tips of rays whitish 

 and a submarginal deep neutral tint whole length of fin, base being 

 paler. Caudal pale grayish. Pectoral livid gray, with several 

 dark blotches before its base. Ventral pale along front edge, terminal 

 portion behind dusky. 



Length 38 mm. 



Type, No. 39,440, A. N. S. P. Sea Isle City, Cape May County, 

 New Jersey. September 5, 1913. Edward Nolan Fox. 



Only the type known. It was secured in a little slough formed 

 about the pilings of the pier, and left by the tides. The specimen 

 was alive when found, swimming actively about, though it died shortly 

 after its capture, when confined in a small vessel. 



The species falls within the subgenus Blennius Linnaeus. It is , 

 related to Blennius fucorum Valenciennes, though that species has a 

 smaller and obtuse head, its orbital cirrus bifid at tip and fringed at 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



its base, more teeth (24 in each jaw), and a different coloration. 

 It is said to be oUvaceous, spotted with brown, and the spinous 

 dorsal edged with paler. De Kay figures an example secured between 

 New York and Constantinople, and it is therefore uncertain if he 

 really obtained it in our limits. 



Blennius stearnsi Jordan and Gilbert also differs in the coloration, 

 more slender body, longer maxillary, and more numerous teeth 

 (24 to 26). 



(Named for Master Edward Nolan Fox, who secured ths type.) 



Urophycis regius (Walbaum). 



Mr, McCadden secured one in Great Egg Harbor Bay, at Ocean 

 City, on July 6, 1913, with Bairdiella chrysura, and a large prawn 

 {Peneus setiferus). The Bairdiella was infested with a lernean 

 parasite. On July 20, he found several more examples of Urophycis. 



Urophycis tenuis (Mitchill). 



A small example in the Academy was obtained many years ago 

 at Cape May. This is the first I have seen. 



On May 26, 1912, I visited the Dutch Neck Fishery, between 

 Florence and Burlington, on the Delaware River shores, and found 

 Abramis crysoleucas, Ameiurus nebulosus, Fundulus lieteroditus 

 macrolepidotus, F. diaphanus, and Eupomotis gibbosus abundant. 

 On June 1, 1913, I found Pomolobus pseudoharengus, Anguilla chris- 

 ypa, Catostomus commersonnii, Abramis, Schilbeodes gyrinus, F. 

 heteroclitus macrolepidotus, F. diaphanus, Apeltes quadracus, Eupomo- 

 tis, and Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi. 



Mr. J. T. Nichols informs me he found an example of Lobotes 

 surinamensis on September 20, 1913 at Galilee (Seabright), N. J. 

 Scomber colias, Pelamys alleterata, and Chcetodipterus faber were also 

 noted at the same time. Another Lobotes, with a large example of 

 Fistularia tabacaria, was also forwarded from Anglesea, N. J., 

 October 21, 1913, through Mr. W. J. Fox. 



« 



Pennsylvania. 



Two large collections were received from Eric, one in April and 

 the other in May, 1912. The specimens were collected in Lake 

 Erie, at or near Erie, and forwarded, at the direction of Mr. N. R. 

 BuUer, Fish Commissioner of Pennsylvania. 



During the spring of 1912, and again in 1913, a great number of 

 fishes were studied at Lovett's Fishery, situated at the mouth of 

 TuUytown Creek on the Delaware River. A small spring-fed stream, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



also flowing into the river close below this point, was thoroughly 

 exi:)lorecl and yielded interesting material. Though unnamed, it is 

 here referred to as "Tullytown Brook." 



In June, 1912, 1 visited Mr. F. J. Meyers at Bethlehem, in North- 

 ampton County, and made a number of collections from the streams 

 flowing into the Lehigh River in that vicinity. Mr. Meyers again 

 invited me to join him in this region in late May of 1913, when we 

 also made a few more collections. We then continued this excursion 

 to Pocono Summit and explored various streams in Monroe County. 



Mr. R. W. Wehrle sent several collections from Indiana and 

 Huntingdon Counties. 



In late July I spent a week in the lower Susquehanna region, 

 around Peach Bottom, in York County, and with the assistance of 

 Mr. H. L. Mather, Jr., secured several interesting collections. 



Various other collections of lesser interest, though some quite 

 extensive, have also been received during the past two years. 



Petromyzon marinus Linnseus. 



A young bluish example, taken in the shad-net at Tullytown. 



Lampetra aepytera (Abbott). 



Mr. Wehrle sent three small ones, though mature, from Hoffman's 

 Run in Indiana County. He writes: "There were a lot of them 

 sticking to stones in the riffles, and I think they were spawning. When 

 scared down stream they remained quiet a while, but soon returned 

 to stick to the same stones." Two others were also received from 

 him, taken in Brick Pond. All taken in April, 1913. 



Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



Two at the Tullytown Fishery. One, four feet long, taken early 

 in May, and the other taken May 28, a small example. 



Lepisosteus osseus huronensis (Richardson). 



Erie. 



Amiatus calvus (Linnseus). 



Five from Erie, one a female and others males. Stomachs nearly 

 empty, one containing small Perca flavescens. 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Several hundred examined at Tullytown, from which about a dozen 

 copepods (Naobranchia pomolohi) were taken. The parasites were 

 all within the gill-openings. One adult female had a lernean, 

 Lerneoceropsis septemramosus, attached to its side below dorsal fin. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Pomolobus aestivalis (Mitchill). 



Many taken at TuUytown, and in several hauls almost all the fish 

 were this species. A few copepods {N aohranchia) were also found 

 in the gill-openings of some. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Over a hundred examined at TuUytown, though no crustacean 

 parasites found on them. 



Leuoichtliys artedi (Le Sueur.) 

 Erie. 



Salmo fario Linnaeus. 



One from the Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam, received 

 from the Philadelphia Aquarium. Possibly it was washed out of 

 the Wissahickon Creek, as suggested by Mr. W. E. Meehan. 

 Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill.) 



Two from McMichael's Creek in Monroe County. Abundant in 

 the Monocacy Creek above Bethlehem, and below in the Saucon 

 Creek, also at Hellertown. ' In Monroe County at Tannersville, 

 Pocono Creek, Tunkhanna Creek, Pocono Lake, and Snyderville. 

 Mr. Wehrle sent an example from Laurel Run, in Huntingdon County, 

 containing a cestode. 



Anguilla ohrisypa Rafinesque. 



TuUytown Creek, Scott's Creek, Lovett's Fishery, Cash Ledge 

 Bar, and TuUytown Brook, Bucks County. Also common in 

 Muddy Creek, York County. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



North Branch of Altman Creek, Yellow Creek, and Brick Pond, 

 in Indiana County. 



Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



Yellow Creek, North Branch of Altman Creek, Lucus Pond, and 

 Brush Creek, in Indiana County. Abundant in the Susquehanna 

 River at Peach Bottom, York County. 



Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). 



TuUytown Brook, Fallsington, and White's Island, Bucks County; 

 Peach Bottom, York County. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Hellertown, Northampton County; Tunkhanna Creek, Toby- 

 hanna Creek, Pocono Lake, Snyderville, Monroe County; Laurel 

 Run, Huntingdon County; North Branch of Altman Creek, Yellow 

 Creek, Brick Pond, Lucus Pond, Brush Creek, Indiana County. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Leuciscus elongatus (Kirtland). 



North Branch of Altman Creek, Brick Pond, Lucus Pond, Brush 

 Creek, IncUana County. 



Abramis orysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Scott's Creek, Cash Ledge Bar, Tullytown Creek, Tullytown 

 Brook, Fallsington, Queen Anne Creek, Bucks Coun'^y; Darby 

 Creek near Moore's, and Media, Delaware County. A :_;ood series 

 of adults from Erie do not differ from our common eastern examples. 



In a collection of fish-bones from a kingfisher's nest, taken Maj^ 

 20, 1913, at Bustleton, sent to me by Mr. R. F. Miller, I did not 

 find the remains of this fish, as in a previous nest I reported. It 

 contained only remains of Notropis cornutus, Catostomus commer- 

 sonnii, and Cambarus bartonii. Of the first-named about 40 pharyn- 

 geal bones were examined. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Queen Anne Creek near Emilie, Tullytown Brook, Cash Ledge 

 Bar, Fallsington, Bucks County; Hellertown, Lime Kiln Run, 

 Saucon and Monocacy Creeks, Northampton County. 



Notropis procne (Cope). 



Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom, York County. 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). 



Queen Anne Creek near Emilie, White's Island, Bucks County; 

 Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam, Philadelphia County; 

 Muddy Creek, York County. 

 Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Scott's Creek, Tullytown, Cash Ledge Bar, White's Island, Bucks 

 County; Muddy Creek, and Peach Bottom, York County. 

 Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Robertson's Brook and Media, Delaware County; Monocacy 

 and Saucon Creeks, Lime Kiln Run, Hellertown, Northampton 

 County; Tunkhanna Creek, Tobyhanna Creek, Monroe County. 



Muddy Creek, Sowego Creek, Peach Bottom, York County. 



North Branch of Altman Creek, Yellow Creek, Lucus Pond, 

 Brush Creek, Indiana County. 



Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). 



Delaware River at Cash Ledge Bar, Bucks County. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 



Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam, Philadelphia County; 

 Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom, York County. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Ericymba buccata Cope. 



Yellow Creek, Indiana County. 



RMnichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Media and Robertson's Brook, Delaware County; White's Island, 

 Bucks County; Lime Kiln Run, Hellertown and Saucon Creek, 

 Northampton County; Pocono Creek, Tunkhanna Creek, Toby- 

 hanna Creek, Pocono Lake, Snyderville, Monroe County. 



Sowego Creek, York County; Laurel Run, Huntingdon County. 



North Branch of Altman Creek, Lucus Pond, Brick Pond, and 

 Brush Creek, Indiana County. Many from the last locality are 

 greatly infested with protozoan parasites. 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



Sowego Creek and Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom. Muddy 

 Creek, York County. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Muddy Creek and Sowego Creek, York County. . 

 Cyprinus carpio Linnsus. 



TuUytown; Erie; Lucus Pond, Indiana County. 

 Carpiodes thompsoni Agaasiz. 



Erie. 



Catostomus commersonnii LacepMe. 



Robertson's Brook, Delaware County; Tullytown Creek, Fall- 

 sington, Bucks County; Linie Kiln Run, Saucon and Monocacy 

 Creeks, Northampton County; Peach Bottom, York County; 

 North Branch of Altman Creek, Lucus Pond, and Brush Creek, 

 Indiana County. 



About a dozen examples were received from Erie, some of which 

 are nearly two feet long. One of these was immediately noticed 

 to be pale or whitish, besides being silvery tinted. When opened 

 it contained a large cestode measuring 530 mm. in length. The 

 parasite was submitted to Dr. J. P. Moore, who kindly informs me 

 that it is the larval stage of Dibothrium ligula Donnadieu. He says 

 it also occurs, in the larval form, in many birds, and in the mature 

 stage, in fish-eating birds. The parasite was wound in several 

 coils loosely through the liver and about the al)dominal cavity. 

 No distension of the abdomen, such as being swolkni out, was noticed. 

 No parasites were found in the other fishes. 

 Catostomus nigricans T>c Smur. 



Peach Bottom, York County, North Branch of Altman Creek, 

 Indiana County. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). 



Tullj'town Brook and Fallsingtoiij Bucks County. Erie. 

 Moxostoma breviceps (Copt-). 



Erie. 



Moxostoma macrolepidotum (Le Sueur). 



Peach Bottom, York County. 



Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). 



Erie. 

 Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Media, Delaware County; Schuylkill River below Fairmount 

 Dam, Philadelphia County; Tullytown, Scott's Creek, Cash Ledge 

 Bar, and Tullytown Brook, Bucks County; Dry Land Pond, North- 

 ampton County; Brick Pond, and Lucus Pond, Indiana County. 



Ameiurus melas Rafinesque. 



Erie. 



Schilbcodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 



An interesting example about eight inches long was taken in a 

 fyke-net, at Torresdale, in the Delaware River. It was very pale, 

 or a case of albinism, the general tint being dilute saffron. Mr. J. R. 

 Berkhouse secured it and sent it to the Philadelphia Aquarium, 

 w^here I saw it alive. 



One adult from Lime Kiln Run, Lehigh County. 

 Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



Media, Delaware County; Schuylkill River below Fairmount 

 Dam, Philadelphia County; Scott's Creek, Tullytown Brook, Fall- 

 sington, and one from Tullytown Creek at Tullytown on May 26, 

 1913, with large roundworm in viscera, Bucks County; Saucon and 

 Monocacy Creeks, Northampton County; Tobyhanna Creek, and 

 Pocono Lake, Monroe County. 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



Erie. 



Umbra pygmsea (De Kay). 



Tullytown Brook, Bucks County. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Darby Creek near Moore's, Delaware County; Scott's Creek, 

 Tullytown Brook, Cash Ledge Bar, Bucks County. 



Fundulus diaphanus Le Sueur. 



Media, Darby Creek near Moore's, Delaware County; Tullytown 

 Creek, Tullytown Brook, Scott's Creek, Cash Ledge Bar, White's 




352 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Island, Bucks County; Monocacy and Saucon Creeks, Northampton 



County. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 



Susquehanna River at Peach Bottom, York County. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). 



Monocacy and Saucon Creeks, Northampton County. 



Pomoxis annularis Rafinesque. 



Schuylkill River below Fairmount Dam, Philadelphia. 



Pomoxis sparoides (Lacepede). 



Erie; Delaware River at Tullytown, Bucks County. 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). 



Lucus Pond, Indiana County. Also examples from Erie. 

 Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Tullytown Brook, Bucks County. 



Lepomis auritus (Linnaeus). 



Media, Delaware County; Tullytown Brook, Cash Ledge Bar, 

 and White's Island, Bucks County; Muddy Creek, York County, 



Lepomis incisor (Valenciennes). 



Erie. 



Eapomotis gibbosus (Linnseus). 



Media, Delaware County; Tullytown, Tullytown Brook, Queen 

 Anne Creek near Emilie, Fallsington, Cash Ledge Bar, Bucks County; 

 Monocacy Creek, Northampton County; Saylor's Lake, Monroe 

 County. Muddy Creek and Peach Bottom, York County. Erie. 



Several small specimens from a mine-pond, near Bethlehem, 

 taken in September, 1913, and received from Mr. F. Burcaw, were 

 greatly parasitized with protozoa. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. 



Tullytown, Bucks County; Addingham, Delaware County; 

 Yellow Creek, Indiana County. 



Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). 



Erie. 

 Stizostedion vitreum (Mitchill). 



Erie. 



Perca flavescens (Mitchill). 



Tullytown and Cash Ledge Bar, Bucks County. Erie. 



Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). 



North Branch of Altman Creek, Yellow Creek, and Brick Pond, 

 Indiana County. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Tullytown Brook, Scott's Creek, and White's Island, Bucks 

 County; Hellertown, ]\Ionocacy and Saucon Creeks, Northampton 

 County; Snyderville, Tobyhanna Creek, Pocono Lake, Monroe 

 County. 



Peach Bottom, York County; Laurel Run, Huntingdon County. 



Etheostoma flabellare Rafinesque. 



North Branch of Altman Creek and Brick Pond, Indiana County. 

 Roccus lineatus (Bloch). 

 TullytoA\'n. 



Roccus chrysops (Rafinesque). 



Erie. 



Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Tullytown and Cash Ledge Bar, Bucks County. 

 Aplodinotus grunniens Rafinesque. 



Erie. 



CottUS ictalops (Rafinesque). 



Yellow Creek and Brick^Pond, Indiana County. 



Cottus gracilis Heckel. 



jMonocacy and Saucon Creeks, and Lime Kiln Run, Northampton 

 County. 



Delaw^are. 



The following list pertains largely to a visit I made, with Mr. C. J. 

 Pennock, to ]\Ir. A. D. Poole, at Rehoboth, in late April, 1913. Mr, 

 Poole assisted me in every way to make my stay profitable as possible. 

 On my return to Philadelphia several days were also spent at Lewes. 

 At Rehoboth I visited the off-shore pounds, and thus had opportunity 

 of seeing many interesting species. Several species are new^addi- 

 tions to the State fauna. 

 Mustelus canis (Mitchill). 



Rehoboth and Lewes beaches. Common. 



Raja erinacea Mitchill. 



Lewes beach. Few. 

 Raja ocellata Mitchill. 



Rehoboth and Lewes beaches. Common. 



Raja eglanteria Lac6pede. 



Rehoboth and Lewes beaches. The most abundant species. 



Raja laevis Mitchill. 



Few large ones in the off-shore pound at Rehoboth. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



Two large ones in the Rehoboth pound. The larger measured 

 104| inches in length, and yielded about 50 pounds of caviare. 



Lepisosteus OSSeus (Linnaeus). 



May 8, 1913, Mr. Poole informs me "large ones were very abundant 

 in the dam at Greens Mills, which is near Bridgeville. The stream 

 is the northwest fork of the Nanticoke." 

 Pomolobus mediocris (Mitchill). 



Small ones at Rehoboth and Lewes. 

 Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Very abundant at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Saw a few, possibly a dozen each day, at Rehoboth. Few at 

 Lewes. 

 Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 



Very common at Rehoboth. Among the multitudes examined 

 but one had Olencira prcegustator in its mouth, besides being para- 

 sitized by Lernecenicus radiatus. The latter was common on almost 

 every fish. Few at Lewes. 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valenciennes). 



Large schools seen in the pound at Rehoboth. Very common 

 along the bay-shore at Lewes. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. 



Young in multitudes, in Lewes Creek and the canal at Rehoboth. 

 Common at Lewes. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



A few in Lewes Creek at Rehoboth. 

 Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Common in Lewes Creek and many young in the ponds, lake, and 

 canal at Rehoboth. Few at Lewes. 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



Several, small ones in Lewes Creek at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Umbra pygmaea (Oe Kay). 



Abundant in Lewes Creek, at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Common on the bay-shore at Lewes and about Cape Henlopen. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Common with the last. At Rehoboth it was common in the canal, 

 though less so in the lake, and very abundant in Lewes Creek. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



About Rehoboth common in the fresh-water glades, and some 

 half-gro^\'n males in full breeding-dress. At Lewes a few were 

 found in the tidal reaches of Lewes Creek, though it was more 

 common in the glades, where I found few or none of the preceding 

 species. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



Several in the canal at Rehoboth. 



Menidia beryllina cerea Kendall. 



Few in the canal at Rehoboth, with the last. 



Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). 



Shoals seen in the pound at Rehoboth. Also common on the 

 bay-shore at Lewes. 



Hippocampus hudsonius De Kay. 



Rehoboth beach. 



Gasterosteus aouleatus Linnaeus. 



One taken in the lake, which virtually is head of Lewes Creek, 

 at Rehoboth. 



Poronotus triacanthus (Peck). 



Common at Rehoboth and Lewes beaches. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Common in the glades of Lewes Creek at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). 



In the lake at Rehoboth. 



Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linnaeus), 



Several in Rehoboth pound. 



Stenotomus chrysops (Linnaeus). 



Few large ones in Rehoboth pound. 



Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). 



Very abundant at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus). 



Common at Lewes and Rehoboth. With the last, the most 

 abundant food-fish. 



Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). 



Few at Lewes and Rehoboth. 



Pogonias cromis (Linnaeus). 



Several large ones in the Rehoboth pound. 

 24 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Tautoga onitis (Linnseus). 



Lewes. 



Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). 



Common in the Rehoboth pound. 



Prionotus evolans strigatus (Cuvier). 



Abundant at Rehoboth and I-ewes. 



Lophopsetta maculata (Mitchill). 

 Few at Rehoboth. 



Paralichthys dentatus (Linnaeus). 



Common, some large, at Rehoboth and Lewes. 



TJropliycis regius (Walbaum). 



Adult and several small ones at Rehoboth. 



Lophius piscatorius Linnseus. 



Rehoboth and Lewes. 



Maryland. 



In late April of 1912, I made several collections in the Choptank 

 and its tributaries about Denton, in Caroline County. A small 

 collection was made in the Pocomoke River near Willards, in Wicom- 

 ico County, in May of the same year. Rather extensive series of 

 fresh-water fishes were also secured in the streams of Harford County, 

 mostly from Deer Creek, at and near the Rocks, and in the Gun- 

 powder River, in August, 1912. 



Lepisosteus osseus (Linnseus). 



I examined one of nine examples, from the Passerdyke Creek, at 

 Eden, Wicomico River basin in Somerset County, May 2, 1913. 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Choptank River and Gary's Branch, near Denton. 



Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). 



Choptank River at Cedar Island and Denton. 



AnguiUa chrisypa Rafinesque. 



Deer Creek near Sharon, and common at the Rocks. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 

 Sharon and the Rocks. 



Leuciscus vandoisulus Valenciennes. 



The Rocks, and Laurel Brook, a tributary of the Gunpowder 

 River. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton. Aydelotte 

 Branch and Pocomoke River near Willards. 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard).'' 



Gary's Branch and Choptank River near Denton. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



The Rocks. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Sharon, the Rocks, and Clermont Mills. 



Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). 



Abundant in the Pocomoke River and Aydelotte Branch near 

 Willards, associated with Abramis and Palcemonetes vulgaris. 



Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



The Rocks, Clermont Mills, and Laurel Brook. 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



The Rocks, Sharon, Clermont Mills, and Laurel Brook. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Same as last species. 



Catostomus commersonnii (LacepMe). 



The Rocks, -and Sharon. 



Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. 



Clermont Mills. 



Ameiurus catus (Linnseus). 



Choptank River near Denton. 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



Gary's Branch, and Choptank River near Denton. Pocomoke 

 River at Willards. 



Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). 

 The Rocks. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



Aydelotte Branch near Willards. 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



Gary's Branch, and Choptank River near Denton. Pocomoke 

 River, and Aydelotte Branch near Willards. 



Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 



Aydelotte Branch near Willards. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



Choptank River, and Cedar Island near Denton. 



Lepomis auritus (Linnaeus). 



The Rocks, Sharon, and Clermont Mills. 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). 



Gary's Branch, and Choptank River near Denton. Pocomoke 

 River near Willards. 

 Perca flavescens (Mitohill). 



Gary's Branch, and Choptank River near Denton. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Choptank River at Cedar Island and near Denton. 

 Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Gary's Branch, Choptank River, and Cedar Island near Denton. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



FISHES COLLECTED BY THE PEARY RELIEF EXPEDITION OF 1899. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Mr. C. F. Silvester kindly placed this collection of fishes in my 

 hands for determination. In some cases the specimens represent 

 localities not given by previous writers. Two species are apparently 

 new. The collection is small, though fairly representative of the 

 meagre fish-fauna of such high latitudes in Greenland. At present 

 it is contained in the Museum of Princeton University, with the 

 exception of a series of duplicates presented to the Academy. The 

 writer is indebted to Princeton University and to Mr. Silvester, for 

 assistance and favors in framing the report. 



COTTID^. 



Icelus bicornis (Reinhardt). 



One example, 63 mm. long, from Foulke Fjord, in 35 fathoms, 

 on August 4. 



Three examples, 31 to 63 mm. long, from Ulriks Bay, in 7 to 25 

 fathoms, August 11. 



Two examples, 31 to 67 mm. long, from Grandville Bay, in 10 to 22 

 fathoms, on August 18. 



Four examples, 68 to 90 mm. long, from Cape Chalon, in 27 

 fathoms, on August 19. 



One example, 39 mm. long, from Bardin Bay, on August 20. 



One example, 38 mm. long, from Ulriks Bay, on August 24. 



Four examples, 52 to 74 mm. long, from Kama, in 30 to 40 fathoms, 

 on August 24. 



Triglops pingeli ReinhVdt. 



One example, 69 mm. long, from Bardin Bay, on August 22. 



Myoxocephalus grnenlandicus ( Valenciennes). ^ 



Two examples, 220 to 230 mm. long, dredged in 10 to 15 fathoms 

 at Saunder's Island, on August 3. 



One example, 175 mm. long, dredged in 7 to 25 fathoms in Ulriks 

 Bay, on August 11. 



The smallest example differs in lacking the warty prominences 



1 The Academy has a large example obtained by the Peary Relief Expedition 

 of 1892, at North Water, in northwest Greenland. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



on the parietal region, which are well developed in the largest. All 

 have a pore or slight slit after the last gill-arch, and the interorbital 

 space nearly as wide as the eye is long. Scabrous tubercles on back 

 and sides fewer in the smallest example. 



Gymnocanthus tricuspis (Reinhardt). 



One example, 188 mm. long, from Godhavn. 



One example, 52 mm. long, from Upernavik, in 10 to 15 fathoms, 

 in August. 



One example, 66 mm. long, from Grandville Bay, in 20 to 40 

 fathoms, August 18. 



Two examples, 62 to 79 mm. long, from Bardin Bay, on August 20. 



One example, 78 mm. long, from Kama, in 30 to 40 fathoms, on 

 August 24. 



Nine examples, 53 to 123 mm. long, from Robertson Bay, in 5 to 40 

 fathoms, on August 24. 



Two examples from Saunder's Island, in 10 to 15 fathoms, on 

 August 3. 



CYCLOPTERID^. 



Eumicrotremus spinosus (MuUer). 



One example, 25 mm. long, from Etah, in 5 fathoms, in August. 



Two examples, 40 to 72 mm. long, without data. 



Two examples, 38 to 70 mm. long, from Grandville Bay, in 20 to 

 40 fathoms, on August 18. 



Also two examples, 36 to 42 mm. long, from Grandville Bay, on 

 August 18. 



Two examples, 33 to 35 mm. long, from Kama, in 20 to 40 fathoms, 

 on August 24. 



Four examples, 25 to 42 mm. long, from Robertson's Bay, in 5 to 

 40 fathoms, on August 24. 



Lethotremus mcalpini sp. nov. Fig. l. 



Head 2|; depth about 1|; D. vii, 9; A. 10; P. about 22; head 

 width about 2| in head and trunk; snout (in profile) 4 in head; 

 eye (in profile) about 3; mouth width about U; interorbital about 

 2; height of first dorsal 2|; height of second dorsal 2; height of 

 anal 21; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal 1|; upper 

 longest pectoral ray 21; length of disk If. 



Body very robust, greatly swollen anteriorly, so that greatest 

 width about equal to greatest dei^th, or nearly half length without 

 caudal. Greatest width falls midway in region between base of 

 uppermost pectoral ray and anal origin. Contour of body in lateral 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



361 



profile generally ovoid. Caudal peduncle compressed, its length 

 I its least depth. 



Head large, broad, upper profile convex, more inclined than 

 lower. Snout short, broad, convex over surface, its length about 

 half its width. Eye large, circular, elevated, without free edges, 

 and slightly anterior. Mouth broad, terminal, rather low, and 



Fig. 1. — Lethotremus mcalpini Fowler. (Type.) 



broad fleshy lips similar. Jaws equal. Maxillary extends but 

 slightly beyond front edge of eye. Dentition as a trenchant firm 

 cutting-edge in each jaw, similar throughout most its extent, and 

 edge only feebly notched or with but slight dentate appearance. 

 Apparently no other teeth, though upper surface of mouth and 

 tongue covered with small tubercles. Tongue large, broad, thick, 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



fleshy, front edge free. Upper and lower buccal membranes well 

 developed. Nostrils near together, anterior in slight cutaneous 

 tube, and posterior simple pore with simple cutaneous rim. In 

 position anterior nostril about opposite middle of eye and posterior 

 about opposite upper rim of eye. Interorbital broad and slightly 

 convex. 



Gill-opening high, mostly above upper level of eye, and small, 

 its aperture not more than half of eye. Downwards and below to 

 disk skin forms slight fold. 



Skin perfectly smooth and without any conspicuous or evident 

 pores, also without spines. 



Dorsals separated by a deep notch, though their fleshy bases at 

 least continuous. First dorsal smaller and more rounded than 

 second, edge also slightly notched and of quite fleshy texture. Its 

 insertion about over front of gill-opening. Second dorsal with 

 rays more free or defined, though simple, and more uniform. Anal 

 like second dorsal. Caudal moderate, rounded. Pectoral moderate, 

 with long and moderately inclined base and composed of simple 

 rays. Pectoral extends as far posteriorly as disk. Latter quite 

 large, circular, and not ensheathed anteriorly by lower pectoral 

 rays. Edge of disk entire. Vent close behind disk. 



Color in alcohol largely pale brownish, fins paler or more or less 

 whitish. Under a lens, head and trunk almost everywhere finely 

 dotted with minute specks of darker shade. They also completely 

 cover first dorsal, together with upper and lower regions of pectoral. 

 On posterior ventral region darker dots quite sparse or inconspicuous. 

 Iris pale slaty. 



Length 21 mm. 



Type, No. 2,950, Museum of Princeton University. Though the 

 precise locality in Greenland is lost, Mr. Silvester thinks the specimen 

 was probably taken in Ulriks Bay. 



Only the type known. It is very similar to Lethotremus muticus 

 Gilbert, from the Aleutian Islands, differing in the narrow notch 

 between the dorsal fins, fewer dorsal rays, larger vertical fins, larger 

 ventral disk, uniformly dotted coloration, etc. It agrees, however^ 

 in the smooth skin and dorsal spines. Gilbert gives the eye as 

 very large, 2^ to 2| in head, though his figure indicates that at the 

 very least it is 4. His largest example was 30 mm. long.- 



(Named for Mr. Charles W. McAlpin, to whom the University is 

 indebted for assistance in securing the present collection.) 



2 Rep, U. S. F. Com., XIX, 1893 (1895), p. 449, PI. 31. Unimak Pass, Alaska. 




19U.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



363 



Lethotremus armouri sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 2|; depth about 1|; D. v, 11; A. 11; P. about 18; head 

 width about 2^ m head and trunk; snout (in profile) 3f in head; 

 eye (in profile) 2|; mouth width If; interorbital about 2; height 

 of first dorsal If; height of second dorsal about 2; height of anal 

 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; caudal 1|; upper longest 

 pectoral ray If; length of disk Ij. 



Fig. 2. — Lethotremus armouri Fowler. (Type.) 



Body robust, swollen or rounded anteriorly, though greatest 

 width not quite equal to greatest depth, or 2| in head and trunk 

 without caudal. Greatest width falls at base of uppermost pectoral 

 ray. Contour of body in lateral profile generally ovoid. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, its length about f its least depth. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Head largg, wide, upper profile generally convex, more inclined 

 than lower. Snout short, wide, convex over surface, its length 

 about § its width. Eye large, circular, slightly anterior. Mouth 

 broad, terminal, rather low, and broad fleshy lips similar. Jaws 

 equal. Maxillary extending very slightly beyond front edge of eye. 

 Each jaw with trenchant firm cutting-edge, feebly notched or with 

 slight dentate appearance. Inside mouth skin apparently smooth. 

 Tongue thick, fleshy, front edge free. Upper and lower buccal 

 membranes slight. Nostrils near together, lower in slight tube 

 about opposite middle of eye, and posterior simple pore about 

 opposite upper rim of eye. Interorbital broad and slightly convex. 



Gill-opening high, mostly above upper level of eye, and small 

 aperture about half of eye. Downwards and below, skin forms 

 slight fold. 



Skin almost everywhere, except upper surface of head and front 

 of back, which furnished with a number of bony tubercles, smooth 

 and without any pores. 



Dorsals entirely separated, space between about half of eye. 

 First dorsal much shorter, though higher, than second, and its edge 

 slightly notched. Spinous dorsal inserted over front of gill-opening. 

 Second dorsal and anal similar, rays simple, well defined, and more 

 or less uniform. Caudal moderate, rounded. Pectoral moderate, 

 with long and moderately inclined base, and formed with simple 

 rays. Pectoral reaches far posteriorly as disk. Latter quite large, 

 circular, and not ensheathed in front by pectoral rays, edge entire. 

 Vent close behind disk. 



Color in alcohol largely brownish, contrasted with whitish mark- 

 ings. Color-pattern may best be understood by an examination 

 of the accompanying figure. On head whitish is left radiating as 

 several streaks from eye. First dorsal largely dusky-brown, with a 

 white edge. Vertical fins otherwise pale or whitish. Disk pale. 

 Iris pale slaty. 



Length 15 mm. 



Type, No. 2,951 Museum of Princeton University. Upernivik, 

 in 8 to 10 fathoms, Greenland. August 1, 1899. 



Paratypes, Nos. 2,952 to 2,954, Museum of Princeton University. 

 Elah, in 5 fathoms, Greenland. August, 1899. 



Related to Lethotremus vinole7itus Jordan and Starks,^ differing in 

 the fewer spines, more numerous dorsal and anal rays, variegated 



' Proc. Col. Acad. Sci., 1895, p. 827, PI. 94. Puget Sound, near Seattle, Wash. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



color-pattern, etc. My examples are all similar and the paratypes 

 but slightly smaller. 



(Named for Mr. George A. Armour.) 



LIPARIDID^. 



Liparis tunicatus Reinhardt.i 



One example, 18 mm. long, from Etah, in 5 fathoms, in August. 



One example, 82 mm. long, from Foulke Fjord, in 35 fathoms. 



Three examples, 15 to 20 mm. long, from Upernavik, in 8 to 10 

 fathoms, on August 1. 



Two examples, 76 to 85 mm. long, from Foulke Fjord, in 35 

 fathoms, on August 4. 



One example, 62 mm. long, from Ulriks Bay, in 7 to 25 fathoms, on 

 August 11. 



One example, 48 mm. long, from Bardin Bay, on August 20. 



One example, 104 mm. long, from Robertson's Bay, in 5 to 40 

 fathoms, on August 24. 



ZOARCID^. 

 Lycodalepis polaris (Sabine). 



One example, 414 mm. long, from Saunder's Island, in 10 to 15 



fathoms, on August 3. 



Faunal Works. 



Bay, E. 1896. Den ostgronlandske Expedition, udfort i Aarene 1891-92 



under Ledelse af C. Ryder. < Meddd. Gronland, XIX, 1896, pp. 52-58. 



[List of 15 species from Scoresby Sound and Angmagsalik, in east Greenland.] 

 CoLLETT, Robert. 1886. Aphanopus minor, en ny Dybvandsfisk af Trichuri- 



dernes Familie fra Gronland. < Christ. Vidensk. Selsk. Forhandl., 1886, 



No. 19, pp. 1-7. 

 Dresel, H. G. 1885. Notes on some Greenland Fishes. < Proc. U. S. Nat. 



Mus., VII, 1884, pp. 244-258. [List of sixteen species with full notes.] 

 Fabricus, Otho. 1780. Fauna Groenlandica, etc. Hafnia? et Lipsise, 1780. 



pp. 1-452. (Fishes, pp. 125-183, 344.) [Contains descriptions of 45 



species, some of which described as new: Salmo rivalis, S. stag7ialis, Pleuro- 



nectes platessoides, Cottus scorpioides, Blennius punctatus, Gadus brosme, 



Ophidium viride.] 

 Graah, W. a. 1832. TJndersogelserejse til Ostkysten af Gronland. Kjoben- 



havn, 1832, p. 194. [Eight species mentioned from the southern part of 



the east coast of Greenland.] 

 [GiJNTHER, A. 1877. Account of the Fishes collected by Capt. Feilden between 



78° and 83° N. Lat., during the Arctic Expedition 1875-6. < Proc. Zool. 



Soc. London, 1877, pp. 293-295, PL 32. (Six species listed and Salmo 



arcturus described as new; also 4 species from Godhavn Harbor.)] 



** I may also note three examples in the collection of the Academy from 

 Godhaab, and one from McCormick Bay, by Dr. B. Sharp in 1892. 



Four wholly unarmed examples of Gasterosieus aculeatus Linnanis from God- 

 havn, having 3 to 5 dorsal spines, were received from Dr. I. Hayes. 



An example of Pholis fasciatus (Schneider), 265 mm. long, was obtained at 

 Godhavn. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Report on a Collection of Fishes made by Mr. C. Hart during the late 



Arctic Expedition. < L.c, pp. 475-477, PI. 50. (Six species from Franklin 



Pierce Bay and two species from lakes in Discovery Bay.)] 

 Holm, G. 1888. Den ostgronlandske Expedition, udfort i Aarene 1883-85 



under Ledelse af G. Holm. < Meddel. Gronland, X, 1888, pp. 54, 81-82. 



[Seven species listed from Angmagsalik in southern part of east Greenland; 



notes on Esquimaux food fishes.] 

 HoLMQVisT, Otto. 1899. List of Fishes collected during the Peary Auxihary 



Expedition, 1894. < Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. London, (7) III, 1899, pp. 



214-223. 

 Jensen, A. S. 1902. Ichthyologiske Studier. < Vid. Med. Foren. Kjoben- 



havn, 1901 (1902), pp. 191-215. {Lycodes eudipleurostidus from West 



Greenland and L. ingolfianus from Davis Straits, described as new, also ten 



other new fishes from the Arctic Seas.) 



1904. The North-European and Greenland Lycodinge. < Dan. Ingolf. 



Exped., II, pt. 4, 1904, pp. 1-99, Pis. 1-10. [Four new forms from the 

 Arctic Seas; Lycodes reticulatus var. macrocephaliis and Lycenchelys kol- 

 thoffi, new species from east and northeast Greenland, respectively.] 



The Fishes of East Greenland. < Meddel. Gronland, XXIX, 1904, 



No. 7, pp. 211-276, Pis. 11-13. [A detailed list of 36 species given, and 

 Lycodes reticidatus var. macrocephalus and Lycenchelys kolthoffi again de- 

 scribed as new.] 



JoHANSEN, Frit.5. 1912. The Fishes of the Danmark Expedition, collected 



and described by Fritz Johansen. < Meddel. Gronland, XLIV, 1912, pp. 



46-375, Pis. 44-46. [A list of 13 species given.] 

 KoEFOED, M. EiNAR. 1907. Poissous. < Due d'Orleans, Croisiere Oceano- 



graphique accomplie a bord de la Belgica dans la Mer du Gronland 1905. 



Bruxelles, 1907, pp. 485-500, PI. 78. [List of six species from east Green- 

 land.] 

 LoNNBERG, E. 1900. The fishes of the Swedish zoological polar expedition 



of 1900. < Rev. Iniernat. Peche Piscic, II, No. 4, St. Petersbourg, 1900. 



[A list of 12 species obtained by the Kolthoff Expedition of 1900, in 



northeast Greenland.] (Not seen.) 

 LtJTKEN, Chr. 1875. A Revised Catalogue of the Fishes of Greenland. < 



Manual of the Nat. Hist. Geol. Phys. Greenland, etc., 1875, pp. 115-122. 



[This contains a list of 78 species.] 



1898. The Ichthyological Results. < Danish Ingolf Exped., II, pt. I, 



1898, pp. 1-39, Pis. i-4. [Raja ingolfiana, Cyclothone megalops and Macrurus 

 ingolfi new species.] 



Peters, W. 1874. Fische. < Die Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarfahrt in den 

 Jahren 1869 und 1870. Leipzig, 1870, pp. 169-174, PI. 1, fig. 3. [Six species 

 from east Greenland, with Gadus glacialis and Salmo hoodii described as new.] 



Reinhardt, Johan. 1857. Naturhistoriske Tillaeg til en geograpisk og statis- 

 tisk Beskrivelse af Gronland. Tillteg Nr. 1. Fiske, pp. 20-27. < Gron- 

 land geographisk og statistisk beskrevet af H. Rink. Kjobenhavn, 1857. 

 [A list of 69 species.] 



ScoRESBY, Jr., William. 1823. Journal of a voyage to Northern Whale- 

 fishery. Edinburgh, 1823, Appendix No. 3, p. 423.^ jFour species men- 

 tioned from the east coast of Greenland in N. Lat. 70°-75''.] 



Smitt, F. a. 1901. On the genus Lycodes. < Bihang K. Svensk. Vet. Ak. 

 Handl, Stockholm, XXVII, Afd. IV, No. 4, 1901, pp. 1-46, one plate. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



367 



MONTANA SHELLS. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 



■ 



Mr. L. E. Daniels collected the following species of shells in the 

 Bitter Root Mountains, Montana: 



Hemphillia danielsi n- s-p. Figs. 1, 2. 



Animal sluglike, with the shell partly exposed, and the mantle 

 elevated into a visceral hump, as usual in this genus. The color 

 in formaline is yellowish-gray with bluish-black markings, but in 

 alcohol it is white with black maculations. The shell pore is about 

 I the length of the mantle. The posterior part of the foot is narrow, 

 with a dorsal median groove and a tail pore. The ovo-testis, fig. 2, 

 has a grayish color with black pigment where the ends of the follicles 



are in contact; albumen gland is yellow; thevas deferens is narrow, 

 enlarged near the uterus; epiphallus long, narrow, and coiled where 

 it joins the vas deferens, and at the insertion of the penis retractor 

 which is as usual attached to the retensor muscle; penis long, conical, 

 tapering towards the atrium, where there is a broad gland; penis 

 papilla short and conical; spermatheca globular on a broad duct 

 which is attached to the body wall in its lower part. Length 34 mm. 

 Types in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences 110,052, 

 from Camas Creek in the Bitter Root Mountains, Montana, collected 

 by Mr. L. E. Daniels, in whose honor I take pleasure in naming 

 the species. Another specimen used to figure the external form is 

 from Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



This species differs from H. camelus P. and V. by having a caudal 

 mucous pore, a narrow tail, and the penis is narrower, with a gland 

 at the base. The mantle is papillose like H. glandulosa B. and B., 

 but it does not have the "horn" on the tail. 



Oreohelix cooperi Binn. 



This species was collected near Lake Como; north side of Camas 

 Creek Canyon at an elevation of 8,000 feet; south side of Camas 

 Creek Canyon at an elevation of 7,000 feet; north fork of Lost 

 Horse Canyon; Lost Horse Canyon; Medicine Hot Springs; Warm 

 Spring Canyon near hotel; Warm Spring Canyon above Medicine 

 Hot Springs, Mont. 



Polygyra ptychophora Br. 



This shell was found at Bitter Root Valley; Lost Horse Creek 

 near Charles; White's Spring, west of Ward; bluff north side of 

 Bitter Root River north of Ward; north end of Ward Mountain; 

 west side of the Rocky Mountains near Ward; Camas Creek Canyon; 

 north fork Lost Horse Canyon, 8,500 feet; Lost Horse Canyon; 

 east side of the Rocky Mountains at Darby ; Warm Spring Canyon 

 near and below the hotel, west side of the Rocky Mountains; 

 Warm Spring Canyon one mile above Medicine Hot Springs, on the 

 west side of the Rocky Mountains; also one-quarter of a mile 

 below the hotel. 



Polygyra ptychophora Br. form castanea Hemp. 



This color form was taken at Bitter Root Valley; White's Spring, 

 west of Ward; bluff north side of Bitter Root River north of Ward; 

 north end of Ward Mountain; west side of the Rocky Mountains 

 near Ward; near Lake Como; Camas Creek Canyon; north fofk 

 Lost Horse Canyon; at an elevation of 8,500 feet in Lost Horse 

 Canyon; east side of the Rocky Mountains at Darby; Warm 

 Spring Canyon below the hotel, west side of the Rocky Mountains. 



Polygyra devia oregonensis Hmp. 



Was collected at Bitter Root Valley; bluffs near Bitter Root 

 River, north of Ward; Lost Horse Creek near Charlos; south side 

 of Saw Tooth Mountain; west side of the Rocky Mountains, near 



Ward. 



Polygyra devia blandi Hmp. 



This variety was collected near Lake Como, Bitter Root Moun- 

 tains, Mont. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



Thysanophora ingersoUi Bid. 



Camas Creek Canyon; Lost Horse Canyon at 8,500 feet elevation 

 and Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 



Polita hammonis Strom. 



Was collected at Hamilton; west side of Bitter Root River near 

 Ward; White's Spring, west of Ward; west side of Bitter Root River, 

 north of Ward; Lost Horse Creek near Charlos; east side of Bitter 

 Root R^iver, near Charlos; Ward; near Lake Como at 10,000 feet 

 elevation; Grantsdale; Darby, Mont. 



Zonitoides arborea Say. 



This shell was found at White's Spring, west of Ward; west side of 

 Bitter Root River, north of Ward; Lost Horse Creek, near Charlos; 

 Gold Creek at the foot of Ward Mountain; Saw Tooth Mountain; 

 north end of Ward Mountain, near Ward, 4,825 feet elevation; 

 east side of Bitter Root River near Charlos; Grantsdale; Camas 

 Creek Canyon; Darby; Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. Some speci- 

 mens were very large. 



Zonitoides nitidus Mull. 



Was collected at White's Spring, west of Ward; Darby, Mont. 



Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



From Hamilton, White's Spring, west of Ward, Gold Creek, at the 

 foot of Ward Mountain, and north end of Ward Mountain, 4,825 

 feet elevation, near Ward; Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 



Euconulus fulvus Drap. 



This shell was collected at White's Spring, near Ward; Lost Horse 

 Creek, near Charlos; Gold Creek, foot of Ward Mountain; Saw 

 Tooth Mountain; north end of Ward Mountain, at an elevation of 

 4,825 feet; east side of Bitter Root River, near Charlos; Camas 

 Creek Canyon; Darby, Mont. 



Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. 



This variety was collected at Hamilton; west side of the Bitter 

 Root River, near Ward; White's Spring W^est of Ward; west side of 

 Bitter Root River, north of Ward; Gold Creek, at the foot of Ward 

 Mountain; east side of Bitter Root River, near Charlos; at 10,000 

 feet elevation, near Lake Como; Grantsdale, Mont. 



Cochlicopa lubrica Miill. 



From west side of Bitter Root River, near Ward; White's Spring, 

 Ward ^Mountain; Ward, Mont. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apr., 



Hemphillia danielsi n. sp. 



Most of the specimens of this slug were not mature; it was found 

 at Bluffs near Bitter Root River, north of Ward; north end of Ward 

 Mountain; Camas Creek Canyon; Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 

 Agriolimax campestris Binn var. montanus Ing. 



This variety was collected at White's Spring, west of Ward; 

 Grantsdale; Darby; Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 

 Columella edentula Drap. 



From west side of Bitter Root River, near W^ard, Mont. ; White's 

 Spring, west of Ward; Ward, Mont. 



Columella alticola Ing. 



Was found under a quaking asp, near Ward, Mont. 

 Bifidaria pentodon Say. 



Was found at White's Spring, west of W^ard, Mont.; Ward; near 

 Lake Como, Bitter Root Mountains, at 6,500 feet elevation, Mont. 

 Vertigo ovata Say. 



Was collected at Gold Creek, at the foot of Ward Mountain, Ward; 

 Darby; Medicine Hot Springs, Mont. 

 Vertigo ventricosa elatior Sterki. 



Taken at White's Spring, west of Ward; Darby. 

 Vertigo modesta parietalis Ancey. 



Collected at Grantsdale, Mont. 



Vertigo coloradensis basidens P. and V. 



Was found at Ward, Mont. 



Pyramidula occidentalis v. Marts. 



This species was found at Lost Horse Canyon and north fork of 

 Lost Horse Canyon, Mont. 

 Pyramidula cronkhitei Newc 



This shell was collected at Hamilton; west side of Bitter Root 

 River, near Ward; White's Spring, west of Ward; west side of Bitter 

 Root River, north of Ward; Gold Creek, at the foot of Ward 

 Mountain; Saw Tooth Mountain; north end of Ward Mountain, 

 elevation 4,825 feet, near Ward; east side of Bitter Root River, near 

 Charlos; near Lake Como, at 10,000 feet elevation; Grantsdale; 

 Darby, Mont. 



Punctum conspectum Bid. 



From White's Spring, west of Ward; Gold Creek Canyon, at the 

 foot of Ward Mountain, at Ward; east side of Bitter Root River, 

 near Charlos; Darby, Mont. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



Succinea oregonensis Loa. 



Taken at White's Spring, west of Ward; east side of Bitter Root 

 River, near Charlos; Ward; near Lake Como, at an elevation of 

 6,500 feet; Darby, Mont. 



Succinea nuttalliana Lea. 



Was collected at Gold Creek, foot of Ward Mountain, at Ward; 

 Grantsd^le; Darby, Mont. 



Planorbis parvus Say. 



This shell was taken at east side of Bitter Root River, near Charlos; 

 Grantsdale, Mont. 

 Planorbis umbilicatellus Ckll. 



Collected at west side of Bitter Root River, near Ward, and at 

 W^ard, Mont. 



25 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



May 19. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of contributions 

 to the Proceedings under the following titles: 



''The scent-producing organs of the honey-bee, " by N. E. Mclndoo 

 (April 24, 1914). 



"The evolution of Sarcocystes muris in the intestinal cells of the 

 mouse. (Preliminary note)," by Howard Crawley (April 27, 1914). 



"Notice of a rare ziphioid whale, Mesoplodon densirostris, on the 

 New Jersey coast," by Roy Chapman Andrews (May 4, 1914). 



"Certain features of Solenogastre development," by Harold 

 Heath (May 18, 1914). 



Thomas L. Fansler was elected a member. 



The following" were ordered to be printed : 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



ON THE OKTHOPTERA FOUND ON THE FLORIDA KEYS AND IN EXTREME 



SOUTHERN FLORIDA. II. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



During the month of July, 1912, the authors undertook a careful 

 field examination of the Florida Keys and the adjacent mainland in 

 order to complete their studies in the Orthoptera of the subtropical 

 area of southern Florida. ^Material procured by field work under- 

 taken by the junior author in January and February, 1903 and 1904, 

 and in March, 1910, as well as small collections made at Miami 

 during the summer of 1903 and at that locality and Key West in 

 November, 1911, have already been studied.^ The supplementary 

 results obtained from the present collection, when compared with 

 the material of the two previous papers noted above, afford a very 

 complete knowledge of all but the scarcest species of the Orthoptera 

 of this region. A number of species of tropical origin are there so 

 scarce and so difficult to find that our knowledge of them is based 

 on the single or very few specimens taken; such species can only 

 be fully studied by a resident or through definite search for these 

 forms alone. We feel satisfied, however, that the present paper 

 gives the final results of a very careful general examination of the 

 region under consideration. 



The recent summer work indicates several important facts. The 

 families Mantidse, Acrididse, and Tettigoniidae are shown to be 

 severely affected in winter by the cold, the Acrididse the least of the 

 three families. Almost all of the fairly plentiful or abundant species 

 • are to be found in greatly increased numbers in the summer, but the 

 scarce or very rare species are in the great majority of cases quite as 

 difficult to find in the summer as during the winter. Certain species, 

 particularly some of those belonging to the Acrididse and Tetti- 

 goniidae, which are numerous or very abundant during the summer, 

 are wholly absent in the winter. The following table- will indicate 

 the comparative abundance of forms as found in midsummer. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sn. Phila., 1905, pp. 29-.5.5; Ibid., 1912, pp. 235-276. 



2 Thij5 table .should be compared with that already given (Pruc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 235) which shows the comparative abundance of forms as 

 found just before the appearance of the spring forms. 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Number 

 Family. . of 



species. 



Forficulidse 6 



Blattidae 16 



Mantidse 4 



Phasmidse 4 



Acrididse 29 



Tettigoniidse 16 



Gryllidge 14 



Found on 



mainland 



only. 



2 

 2 



2 

 9 

 9 



8 



Found on Very 

 ke3's abund- 

 only. ant. 



3 1 



8 2 



2 



1 



5 3 



2 1 



2 3 



Very 

 rare. 



1 



3 

 1 



Nymphs 

 only. 



1 

 4 

 1 



1 



The number of specimens taken on the trip of July, 1912, is 

 seventeen hundred and seventy-five (there are seventeen hundred 

 and eighty specimens recorded in this paper) and eighty-nine species 

 are represented. Of these species three are new, while one circum- 

 tropical species is recorded from the United States for the first time 

 and the definite establishment of five tropical species within the 

 United States is first demonstrated. 



Besides the eighty-nine species discussed in the present paper, we 

 have already recorded from this region the following species: 



Labia curvicauda (Motsch.). 

 Ceratinojjtera diaphana (Fabr.)- 

 Chorisoneura plocea Rehn. 

 Neotettix variahilis Hancock. 

 Macneillia obscura (Sc). 

 Scirtetica marmorata picta (Sc). 

 Psinidia fenestralis (Serv.). 

 Stenacris vitreipennis (Marschall). 

 Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas). 



Stilpnochlora inarginella (Serv.). 

 Scudderia iexensis S. & P, 

 Scudderia cuneata Morse. 

 Pyrgocorijpha uncinata CHarris). 

 Atlanticus glabcr R. & H. 

 Scapteriscus abbreviatus Sc. 

 ElUpes minuta (Sc). 

 Anariphn pulicaria (Burm.). 

 Orocharis saulcyi (Guerin). 



In addition, Blatta orientalis Linn., has been recorded from Miami, •'' 

 bringing the total number of species recorded from subtropical 

 Florida to one hundred and eight, of which sixty-four have been 

 taken on the keys. 



'Caudell, Ento?n. News, XXVI, p. 216 (1905). 




1914.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375 



Principal Localities and Dates of Examinations. 



Miami, Dade Dounty, Florida. — January-February, 1903, (H.); 



Januarj^-February, 1904, (H.); March, 1905, (Caudell); March 



1910, (H.); November, 1911, (Englehardt). 

 Homestead. Dade County, Florida.— March, 1910, (H.); Julv, 1912, 



(R. & H.). 

 Detroit, Dade County, Florida.— July, 1912, (R. & H.). 

 Jewfiph, Monroe County, Florida.— July, 1912, (R. & H.). 

 Key Largo, Monroe County, Florida. — March, 1910, (H.); July, 



1912, (R. & H.). 

 Long Kev, Monroe County, Florida. — March, 1910, (H.); July, 



1912," (R. &H.). 

 Key Vaca, Monroe County, Florida.— March, 1910, (H.); July, 



1912, (R. & H.). 

 Boot Key, Monroe County, Florida.— March, 1910, (H.). 

 Big Pine Key, Monroe County, Florida.— July, 1912, (R. & H.). 

 Key West, Monroe. County, Florida. — January, 1904, (H.); March, 



1905, (Caudell); March, 1910. (H.); November, 1911, (Engle- 

 hardt); July, 1912, (R. & H.). 

 Garden Kev, Dry Tortugas. Monroe County, Florida. — July, 1912, 



(R. & H.). ' 

 Bird Key, Dry Tortugas, Monroe County, Florida. — July, 1912, 



(R. & H.). 

 Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas. Monroe County, Florida. — Julv, 



1912, (R. & H.). ■ ' 



Relative Value of Tropical Element. 



In this region the truly tropical element is shown by the following 

 species : 



Prolahia arachidis (Yersin). 



Ischnoptera rufescens (Beauv.). 



NeoblatteUa detersa (Walk.). 



Supella supellectiliurn (Serv.). 

 *Ceratinoptera diaphana (Fabr.). 



Leurolestes pallida (Brunn.). 



Blaherus atropos (StoU). 



Holocompsa nitidula (Fabr.). 

 *Plectoptera poeyi (Sauss.). 



*Mantoida maya S. & Z. 

 *Aplopus mayeri Caudell. 

 *Stilpnochlora margineUa (Serv.). 



*Oligacanthopus prograptus R. 

 Gryllodes sigillatus (Walk.). 

 *Cyrtoxipha gundlachi Sauss. 

 *Orocharis saulcyi (Guerin). 

 *Tafalisca lurida Walk. 



&H. 



The species preceded by an asterisk appear to be the only forms 

 which have not been accidentally introduced by man. Three of 

 these nine species are known only from the keys, five from the keys 

 and the jungle-like "hammock" land of the subtropical region of 

 Florida, and one from the latter only. This evidence shows that 

 half of the tropical species which have become permanently fixed 

 in this region were, in all probability, accidentally introduced by man, 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and that outside of these species the tropical element is very weak, 

 equalling but 11.3% of the non-introduced species, and only found 

 in the scrub of the keys and the limited areas of jungle-like "ham- 

 mock" land on the southernmost portion of the Florida peninsula, 

 distinguished particularly by the presence of the gumbo limbo 

 (Bursera simarubra). Of these species the genus Mantoida is tropical 

 American, while Oligacanthopus is known only from a single specimen 

 from Miami, Fla. All of the other species are West Indian, Plec- 

 toptera poeyi, Stilp7iochlora marginella, and Cyrtoxipha gundlachi 

 being found elsewhere in tropical America as well. One species, 

 Paratettix toltecus (Sauss.), taken at Homestead, Fla., only, alone 

 represents a purely Sonoran and Mexican form. 



The following species are tropical intruders in the Lower Austral 

 zone of the southeastern United States which are found in the region 

 under discussion: 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). Pycnoscehis surinamensis (Linn.). 

 Periplaneta australaske (Fabr.). *Scapteriscus abbreviatus Sc. 

 Periplaneta brunnea (Burm.). *Cryptoptilumantillarum (Redt.). 



The species preceded by an asterisk again appear to be the only 

 forms in this list which have not been accidentally introduced by 

 man. The species Pycnoscelus surinamensis shows, however, very 

 long residence in this region by its widespread abundance. 



Pine trees are found only on Big Pine and the adjacent keys, and 

 in the undergrowth of these forests three species, Radinotatum 

 hrevipenne peninsulare, Schistocerca damnifica calidior, and Aptenopedes 

 aptera, were found, which species were not present elsewhere on the 

 keys. In this situation the resemblance of specimens of a number 

 of species to mainland individuals of the same was closer than to 

 those taken in the keys scrub, the latter series as a rule differing in 



paler coloration. 



FORFICULID^. 

 Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 5, 7, 1912; 3 c^, 2 9 . 



The femoral annuli are prominent in all of these specimens, one 

 female from Key West having these markings particularly heavy. 



The specimen from Homestead was taken from under a board in a 

 yard. The series from Key West was taken chiefly from under 

 coquina boulders about the East Martello tower, while one specimen 

 was captured between boards in the wood shed where Blaberus 

 atropos was found numerous. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Anisolabis maritima (Gen6). 



Key West, Fla., July 5, 1912; 4 d^, 5 9 , 1 n. 



This species was found, as in the winter, swarming under coquina 

 boulders and drift on the beach. Individuals have almost always 

 been found in the proximity of salt water. 



Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 1 d^, 1 9 . 



One of these specimens was taken moving actively across a coquina 

 road after dark. At that hour, with the aid of a flash-lamp, this species 

 was seen in numbers near piles of coquina and about dwellings near the 

 beach. This insect is frequently found with the preceding species. 

 Labia minor (Linn.).'' 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 1 9 . 



This specimen, the first record of this cosmopolitan species from 

 Florida, was found between boards in the wood shed where the 

 series of Blaherus atropos was taken. 



Prolabia unidentata (Beauv.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 cf , 1 9 . 



These two individuals, both lacking wings, were taken under the 

 bark of a dead pine log in the pine woods, where in like situations 

 the species is occasionally found throughout the year in this region, 

 though seldom in large numbers. 



Prolabia arachidis (Yersin). 



1876. Labia brunnea Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 264. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 7 cT, 13 9 , 3 n. 



This cosmopolitan species was found rather numerous in the greasy 

 kitchen of the boarding house at Homestead. After dark the 

 insects would appear in numbers accompanied by swarms of Peri- 

 planeta americana, but the series was secured with difficulty, as the 

 insects were very active and invariablj^ scuttled awaj^ into cracks 

 in the walls and tallies at the first approach of a light. Individuals 

 were greasy and unclean. 



Caudell^ has recently placed Scudder's Labia hrunnea correctly in 

 the synonymy under the present species. 



Though this species has been found introduced in the United 



* The species, Labia curvicauda, which was found so plentiful in March, 1910, 

 on Long Kej', was not seen in the summer of 1912. PeeuHar conditions following 

 the hurricane of 1909 afforded the opportunity to take the series on the earlier 

 date, and had dying tops of cocoanut palms been present in the summer of 1912 

 there is little doubt but that the species would have been then found abundant. 



5 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XLIV, p. 598 (1913). 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



States at several localities, it is probably permanently and thoroughly 

 established only in southern Florida. »^,,,, 



BLATTID^. 

 Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 cf, 2 9 , 2 n. (Nymphs 

 numerous.) 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 9. 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 1 cf , 1 9 . 



At Homestead the species was found under boards lying on very 

 wet ground in the prairie-like everglades, while at Detroit and Key 

 West the specimens were taken in debris and leaf mold in heavy 

 jungle-like areas of trees, bushes, and vines. The species had not 

 been previously taken on the keys. 



Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens S. and Z. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 d", 1 9. 



The remains of the above recorded males and an additional speci- 

 men of the same sex were found entangled in the webs of spiders 

 at the railroad station, where they had probably been attracted by 

 the lights. 



Ischnoptera rufescens (Beauv.). 



(Ischnoptera blattoides of authors.) 



Key West, Fla., July 4, 1912; 1 cf. 



This individual, the first United States record of this circumtropical 

 species, was taken in a very greasy cupboard in the Hotel Jefferson 

 in company with swarms of Blattella germanica and a few specimens 

 of Supella supellectilium. The much paler coloration made this 

 specimen, the only one of the species seen, very conspicuous among 

 the many other darker roaches disclosed by the light of a flash-lamp. 



We follow Saussure in placing this species in the genus Ischnoptera. 

 It is the only species of that genus found within the United States 

 which has the ventro-cephalic margin of the cephalic femora armed 

 with a complete row of spines, the more distal shorter than the more 

 proximal. All of the other North American species of Ischnoptera 

 have this margin armed with 3 to 5 strong spines succeeded distad 

 by a close-set row of minute piliform spinulations. 



Blattella^ germanica (Linn.). 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1913; 1 cf. 

 Key West, Fla., July 4, 1912; 4 9 . 



6 Vide Shelford, Entom. Monthly Mag., (2), Vol. XXII, p. 154, 155 (1911). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912. Few seen in 

 house. 



The present species infests larders and kitchens throughout this 

 region. 

 Neoblattella" detersa^ (Walk.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 9. 



A single specimen of this tropical species was found in spider webs 

 at the railroad station, where it had probably flown attracted by the 

 lights. 



Supella'' supellectilium (Serv.). 



Key West, Fla., July 4-7, 1912; 8 c^, 4 9 , 1 n. 



One specimen of this circumtropical species was taken in a fruit 

 store, while the others of the series were captured at night in the 

 Hotel Jefferson in the rooms and kitchen cupboards. The males 

 occasionally appeared in lighted rooms running about with extreme 

 rapidity and often taking flight. The females were all taken in 

 cupboards where Blattella germanica was found in swarms. 



The only previous record of the present species from the United 

 States is that of Rehn,i*' as Saussure's synonymous Phyllodromia 

 cuhensis, from Miami, Fla. 

 Ceratinoptera lutea (S. and Z.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 9. 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 1 9 , 2 n. 



The adult from Homestead was taken from under a board on very 

 wet ground on the prairie-like everglades, while nymphs were found 

 frequently under bark on decaying pine logs in the pine woods. 

 At Key West nymphs were occasional in the leaf mold in the heavier 

 jungle-like scrub. 



Leurolestes pallidus^' (Brunncr). 



Phoetalia Icevigala of authors (not Blatta laevigata, Beauv., 1805). 



Key West, Fla., July 4-7, 1912; 16 cf , 25 9 , 9 n. 



■< Ibid. 



8 Records of Blattella {Neoblattella) adspersicollis (Stdl) from the United States 

 all apply to this species. Material recently received from Brazil shows A'', adsper- 

 sicollis to be a very different insect. 



» Vide Shelford, Entom. Monthly Map., (2), Vol. XXII, pp. 154, 155 (1911). 



'"Entorn. News, XIV, p. 125 (1903). 



» Aevpo^, flat, >r/(yT?/g, plunderer. The authors propose this name to replace 

 Wattenwyliella which was recently erected by them to replace " Plvjetalia" of 

 authors {Entom. News, XXV, pp. 216, 217, May, 1914) . The name Wattenwijliella, 

 however, was proposed in the month of April, 1914, by Carl {Revue Suisse de 

 Zoologie, XXII, p. 174) for a member of the Pseudophyllina; from Madagascar, 

 in consequence of which preoccupation, we here propose Leurolestes. 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The series was taken in a fruit store where the species was common 

 in a pile of old burlap bags and in cracks under the stands which it 

 shared with one fairly large colony of BlatteUa germanica, occasional 

 specimens of Holocompsa nitidula, a few specimens of Periplaneta 

 americana, and one specimen of Supella supelledilium. The present 

 species was previously known from the United States from a single 

 female taken on Key Largo, Fla. 



A single female was captured which had just moulted into the 

 adult condition, this specimen was uniform pale straw color. 

 Nymphs of this species are above bay in coloration, below more 

 tawny, especially on the limbs, while that portion of the head from 

 the interantennal space to the clypeal suture is very dark; the 

 entire dorsal surface of these nymphs is rough, much as are the 

 distal abdominal segments in nymphs of Pycnoscelus surinamensis. 



Eurycotis floridana (Walker). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 c^, 1 9 , 1 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 2 n. 



The single specimen from Detroit was found concealed in an 

 epiphyte (Tillandsia fasciculata) , growing on the limb of an oak in 

 "hammock" land. Two specimens were taken revealed by a 

 flash-lamp at night; an adult climbing on the trunk of a pine at 

 Homestead and a nymph climbing about in a clump of weeds over a 

 foot from the ground at Key West. It appears that this species 

 moves about at night, hiding under bark of logs and in other recesses 

 during the day. Where pines were present individuals of this 

 species have almost invariably been found hiding under the bark 

 of dead logs and stumps of this tree. 



Periplaneta americana (Linn.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 d". 



Key West, Fla., July 4, 1912; 1 9 . 



One specimen was found in a spider web at Homestead Station 

 where the species swarmed at the boarding house. The species was 

 very abundant in a quarter-boat at Pine Channel and a few adults 

 but many nymphs were present in refuse under the stands in a fruit 

 store at Key West. 



Periplaneta australasiae (Fahr.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 c^, 1 9 . 

 Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 9 . 

 Key West, Fla., July 4, 1912; 1 d', 2 9 , 2 n. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912. Few seen in 

 houses. 



In company with Periplaneta americana this species was found 

 abundant at Pine Channel in a quarter-boat, while it was numerous 

 everywhere in the Hotel Jefferson at Key West. 



Periplaneta brunnea (Burm.)- 



Jew Fish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 9 . 

 Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linn.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 9. 



Jew Fish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 9. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 4 9 , 4 n. 

 Blaberus atropos (Stoll). 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 15 cf , 28 9 , 10 n. 



Adults of this species were found common, nymphs few, between 

 old boards in a wood shed; many nymphs but few adults were also 

 found under boards on the ground near by. This great insect is 

 widely distributed and well known to the natives about Key West, 

 where it is found in wood piles, under boards and other refuse about 

 the town. The insects, when exposed, either remained motionless 

 or scuttled toward another place of concealment with no great speed. 

 The nymphs were usually found half buried in loose damp earth 

 under boards, where they remained motionless, looking much like 

 lumps of earth (with which they were usually much dusted) until 

 disturbed. Two very small nymphs were observed which had 

 recently moulted, these individuals were pure white and very soft. 



Holocompsa nitidula (Fabr.). 



1838. C[orydia] (Holocompsa) cyanea Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, p. 492. 

 1838. C[orydia] (Holocompsa) collaris Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, p. 492. 



Key West, Fla., July 4-7, 1912; 16 c^, 10 9 . 



These diminutive roaches were found in the folds of burlap bags 

 under the counter of a fruit store where other interesting roaches 

 were taken, and also with Blaberus atropos between old boards in a 

 wood shed, where nymphs were more numerous than adults. The 

 insects when disturbed ran about with great speed, but did not go 

 far to hide, often stopping in the first bits of refuse to which they 

 came. This is the first time that Holocompsa nitidula has been found 

 established within the United States; the only previous record of 

 the species being found in this country is that of Caudell,i- ^f g^ 

 single specimen found on cotton batting from the store room of the 



^"^Proc. Entom. Soc. Wash., VIII, p. 133 (1907). 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



National Museum at Washington, D. C, which specimen was 

 unquestionably accidentally introduced. 



The present series enables us to synonymize Burmeister's Holo- 

 compsa cyanea, which was based upon males of the species, while his 

 Holocampsa collar is was described from individuals of the opposite 

 sex. The latter species was first recognized as a synonym of Holo- 

 compsa nitidula by Kirby in 1904. ^^ Previous authors have failed 

 to recognize cyanea and collaris as sexes of the same species owing, 

 apparently, to their lack of sufficient material. The males are 

 rather slender and almost uniformly shining blackish (the antennse 

 have three pale yellowish joints in the distal portion and the limbs 

 are very dark brown), while the females are much more robust, the 

 pronotum is strikingly cinnamon-rufous and the tegmina are a very 

 dark metallic blue in the colored portion; in the latter sex somewhat 

 more than the distal half of the antennae is pale yellowish. Such 

 striking differences between the sexes explains their being described 

 as different species in the same paper. 

 Plectoptera poeyi (Sauss.). 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 8 c^, 12 9 , 3 n. 



On Big Pine Key the species was beaten from a fringe of tall 

 bushes growing on the edge of a mangrove swamp, where individuals 

 were scarce. The insects were found fairly common on Key West 

 in rather scattered bushes, particularly Ilex cassine. One nymph 

 was also taken at night at the latter locality, running about on the 

 leaves of a buttonwood bush {Conocarpus erecta). 



MANTID^. 

 Mantoida maya S. and Z. 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 19. 



This is the second United States record of this peculiar mantis, 

 which was described from Temax, northern Yucatan. The first 

 record from within the United States was given with certainty from 

 Florida and probably from Kissimmee.^^ The present specimen 

 fully agrees with the original description and was taken while swiftly 

 running about on the ground under high jungle brush. 

 Stagmomantis Carolina (Johannson). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 3 n. 

 Detroit, Fla., July 12,. 1912; 1 n. 



" Synon. Catal. Orth., p. 169. 



1^ Caudell, Canad. Enlom., XLIII, p. 15G (1911). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912: 1 n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 2 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 4 n., 1 ootheca. 



The individuals from Homestead and Detroit are in the instar 

 preceding maturity, while the others represent three less developed 

 stages. 

 Gonatista grisea (Fabr.). 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 3 c^, 4 9 , 9 n. 



The nymphal individuals are in four stages of development, the 

 most immature specimen having the body 8.25 millimeters in length, 

 the same measurement in the largest nymph being 39 mm. The 

 males show but little variation in size, all, however, equalling or 

 exceeding the maximum measurements given by Caudell for this 

 form. ^5 The females show some size variation, the length of the 

 pronotum in all being slightly longer than Caudell's measurements, 

 although the tegminal length is under his maximum in all four 

 individuals. The coloration of Ijoth sexes shows no decided varia- 

 tions. Specimens from more northern localities in the range of the 

 species apparently average smaller than individuals from the keys, 

 judging from a male from Tarpon Springs, Fla., and two females from 

 Fort George, Fla., and Thomasville, Ga. 



The present specimens were taken chiefly from gumbo-limbo trees 

 in the heavy key scrub jungle, but the species also occurred on sea 

 grape. The insects were always on the trunks or branches and 

 generally about six feet from the ground, infrequently higher and 

 very rarely lower. They were perfectly protected when in their 

 resting position, being then closely pressed against the bark of the 

 tree. When disturbed they would make off with a rapid scuttling 

 run. 

 Thesprotia graminis (Scudder). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d', 2 9. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 cf , 2 n. 



Key We.st, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 2 9 , 4 n. 



The nymphs are in three stages of development, the least mature 

 being from Big Pine Key, taken the same day as an adult female- 

 From this it would appear that the species matures over a consider- 

 able part of the year. 



At Homestead the females of this species were taken in the under- 

 growth of pine woods, while the male was found dead in a spider's 



15 Psyche, XIX, p. 161 (1912). 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



web ; on Big Pine Key the nymphs were taken in the pine woods and 

 the adult in grass, while at Key West individuals frequented low 

 ground vegetation in the more open scrub. 



PHASMID^. 

 Manomera tenuescens (Scudder). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 3 o^, 1 9 , 1 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d', 4 n. 

 ' On careful examination of our Florida series of twenty adults of 

 this genus, two species were found to be present, distinguishable by 

 very good characters in the male and female genitalia and also in the 

 distal abdominal segments. The original description and figure of 

 tenuescens show conclusively that the form with the elongate sub- 

 cylindrical anal segment in the male is that species. 



The two species of Manomera were taken together in the same 

 situations; on prairie, in undergrowth of pine woods, and at night on 

 the extremities of the leaves of the saw palmetto (Serenoa) at Home- 

 stead and in pine woods undergrowth on the edge of a hammock at 

 Detroit. 



Manomera brachypyga n. sp. 



1907. Mnnoniera tenuescens R. and H. (not Bacunculus tenuescens Scudder, 

 1900), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 283. (In part.) (San Pablo, 

 Florida.) 



1912. Manomera tenuescens R. and H., (not Bacunculus tenuescens Scudder, 

 1900), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 242. (Miami, Florida.) 



Closely allied to M. tenuescens (Scudder), agreeing in general form, 

 structure of the limbs, and coloration, but differing in the much more 

 abbreviate seventh, eighth, and ninth abdominal segments and the 

 form of the apex of the male abdomen. In the male the seventh, 

 eighth, and ninth dorsal abdominal segments together are hardly or 

 not at all longer than the sixth dorsal segment, while in tenuescens 

 they are half again as long; the eighth dorsal segment in brachypyga 

 is transverse instead of longitudinal; the ninth segment fornicate 

 and subinflated instead of decidedly longitudinal and cylindrical as 

 in tenuescens; while the cerci of tenuescens have a delicate spine at 

 the internal base, which is represented in brachypyga by a much 

 more robust tooth. The two forms can be very readily separated 

 when the apex of the male abdomen is viewed from either the dorsal 

 or lateral aspect. In the female the sixth dorsal abdominal segment 

 is considerably longer than the seventh and eighth segments, while 

 in tenuescens it is less than the seventh and eighth segments in 

 length; the ninth segment is equal in length to the prothorax, which 




19U. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



385 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



segment is longer than the prothorax in temiescens, and the sub- 

 genital plate has the caudal margin less produced and more sub- 

 truncate than in that species. 



Type: cf ; Homestead, Dade County, Fla. July 10-12, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size, form, general structure and proportions, and coloration as 

 in tenuescens, differing in the following characters: Abdomen with 

 the first to sixth segments slightly more 

 longitudinal, the apex of the caudal femora 

 not quite reaching the distal margin of the 

 fourth segment; seventh, eighth and ninth 

 dorsal segments together no longer than the 

 sixth segment; seventh segment longitu- 

 dinal, lateral margins subparallel, not ex- 

 panding caudad; eighth segment slightly 

 transverse, but slightly more than half the 

 length of the seventh segment, not com- 

 pressed; ninth dorsal segment shorter than 

 the seventh segment, the greatest width 

 (caudal) but slightly greater than the 

 length, fornicate, lateral margins converging 

 proximad, distal margin arcuato-emarginate, 

 exposing the strongly arcuate extremity of 

 the supra-anal plate; cerci of the bent- 

 arcuate type found in tenuescens, but with 

 the proximo-internal base with a very blunt, 

 subincrassate obliquely directed tooth; subgenital opercule small, 

 shallower, and less pendulate than in tenuescens. 



Allotype: 9 ; Miami, Dade County, Florida. March 28, 1910. 

 (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size, form, general structure and proportions, and coloration as in 

 tenuescens, differing in the following characters: abdomen with the 

 sixth dorsal segment considerably longer than the seventh and 

 eighth dorsal segments; ninth dorsal segment equal in length to 

 prothorax; subgenital plate with caudal margin very little produced, 

 rotundato-subtruncate. 



Figs. 1 and 2. — Dorsal 

 outline of apex of ab- 

 domen of Manomera 

 tenuescens (1; Home- 

 stead, Fla.) and of M. 

 hrachij-pyga (2; type). 

 (X3.) 



Fig. .3. 



Fig. 4. 



I 



Figs. 3 and 4. — Lateral outline of apex of abdomen of Manomera tenuescens 

 (3; Homestead, Fla.) and of M. brachypyga (4; type). (X 3.) 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Homestead, Fia. 



Type. Paratype. Paratype. 



Length of body 87 . 5 87 . 4 88 . 5 



Length of head 4.5 4.3 4.2 



Length of prothorax 3. 3.2 3. 



Length of mesothorax 20 . 5 20 . 6 21.4 



Length of metathorax (including median 



segment) 18.5 18.3 18.7 



Length of abdomen 41. 41. 41.2 



Length of cephahc femur 22.3 24. 23.8 



Length of median femur 18.2 19.4 19.5 



Length of caudal femur 23.3 25. 25.3 



Miami, Detroit, San Pablo, 

 Fla. Fla. Fla. 



9 & d" 



Allotype. Paratype. 



Length of bodv 92 . 6 86 . 6 69 . 6 



Length of head 5.1 4.5 3.5 



Length of prothorax 3.2 3. 2.7 



Length of mesothorax 21. 20.5 15.8 



Length of metathorax (including median 



segment) 17.2 18.6 13 .3 



Length of abdomen 46.1 40. 34.3 



Length of cephalic femur 23 . 8 22 . 18.5 



Length of median femur 18.4 19.1 15.3 



Length of caudal femur 23 . 8 24 . 7 20 . 



The present authors have recorded a male of this species, taken 

 at San Pablo, Fla., August 13, 1905, as M. tenuescens, at that writing 

 not recognizing it as distinct from individuals of that species in the 

 same series. A series of one adult female and eleven nymphs taken 

 at Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910, have also been recorded as that 

 species. The above-measured five males and one female constitute 

 the known series of adult specimens of brachypyga, the San Pablo 

 specimen showing that there is considerable variation in size, regard- 

 ing which our series is too small for us to say whether it is geographical 

 or individual in character. We consider the two additional Home- 

 stead specimens and the single Detroit individual, paratypes. The 

 differential characters show almost no variation, there being but a 

 slight amount of proportional difference in the length of the eighth 

 dorsal segment. The distal margin of the ninth dors&;l abdominal 

 segment varies from arcuato-emarginate to obtuse-angulate emargi- 

 nate. In coloration the Homestead and Detroit individuals are 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 387 



uniform, while the San Pablo specimen is of similar pattern but with 

 the tones paler. 



The new form was found on July 10-12, 1912, under exactly the 

 same conditions at Homestead and Detroit as was tenuescens, the 

 San Pablo specimen having been taken in the undergrowth of pine 

 woods, 



Aplopus mayeri Caudell. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 1 n. 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 16 d^, 6 9, 

 19 n. 



Bird Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla. Observed by Dr. Mayer. 



Garden Key, Dry Torgugas, Fla. Observed by Dr. Mayer. 



A special trip to secure specimens of this striking species was made 

 to Loggerhead Key, where, with the kind assistance of Dr. Alfred G. 

 flayer, the Director of the Carnegie Marine Biological Laboratory, 

 we were able to secure the above interesting series. All were taken 

 from bushes of the bay cedar (Suriana maritima), to which, as shown 

 by Stockard in his paper on the habits of this species, ^^ the species 

 is there restricted. The adult females show the marked color 

 variations spoken of by Stockard, while the males vary only in the 

 extent to which the greenish of the limbs tinges the thoracic segments. 



Our series shows the following extremes in the length of the body, 

 cf 83.-93. mm., 9 (exclusive of the oviscapt) 114.-127.5. The oviscapt 

 varies considerably in length individually, the extremes, which are 

 in specimens of approximately the same general bulk, being 25.-29.5 

 mm. The Loggerhead Key nymphs represent three stages of 

 development. 



According to Dr. ]\Iayer, the species occurs on Bird Key and Garden 

 Key, the other islands of the Tortugas group. On Long Key the 

 single very immature individual was beaten from heavy key scrub. 

 The nearly half-grown male from Key West was found in the after- 

 noon, climbing up the trunk of a bush in a heavy tangle. 



Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stollj. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 8 d^ , 3 9 , 2 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 1 d^, 3 n. 



At Homestead this species was taken from under boards in the 



i« Habits, Reactions and Mating Instincts of the "Walking Stick," Aplopus 

 mayeri. Papers from the Tortugas Laborator}^ Carnegie Institution, Washing- 

 ton, Publ. 103, IT, Xo. 2, (1908). 



26 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



day time in pine woods, and at night from the leaves of saw palmetto 

 (Serenoa) in pine woods. 



ACRIDID^. 

 Paratettix rugosus (Sc). 



(Apotettix rugosus of authors.) 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 12, 1912; 2 d" . 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 26 cf , 23 9 , 6 n. 



The larger series was taken in bare spots on semi-baked marsh 

 soil at Jewfish, where more than an hour was spent in collecting the 

 material, for the species was frequent but not abundant. All of 

 these specimens are decidedly rugose, the specimens from Homestead 

 recorded above as well as a few of those taken in 1910 in this region 

 are considerably less rugose. All of the specimens from southern 

 Florida before us are very uniform and dark in coloration, with the 

 exception of two of the Jewfish series which individuals have the 

 pronotum a lighter brown except on each side for a short distance 

 caudad of the humeral angles. The extremes of pronotal lengtii in 

 the above series are: cf cf 11.7 to 13.3 mm.; 9 9 13.8 to 15.6 mm. 



We are unable to consider Apotettix of Hancock a valid genus. 

 Comparison of the type of the genus Apotettix, A. convexus (Morse), 

 with specimens of the type species of the genus Paratettix, P. merid- 

 ionalis (Ramb.), and study of the literature gives convincing proof 

 that no valid characters have been given nor do any exist to have 

 warranted the erection or retention of the genus Apotettix. 

 Paratettix toltecus (Sauss.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d^, 2 9 . 



These specimens agree in all respects with topotypical Mexican 

 material ("Mexico calida, " Jalapa taken as representative). The 

 species is here recorded from Florida for the first time. New Mexican 

 records being hitherto the most eastern for the United States. 

 Neotettix coarctatus Hanc. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 50 d^, 27 9 , 1 n. 15 cf , 6 9 , 

 elongate type. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 c^, 5 9 . 1 cf , elongate type. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 cf . 1 cf , elongate type. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 8 d^, 1 9 , 1 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 6 c^, 1 n. 



The majority of the specimens from Big Pine Key and Key West 

 are the smallest in size of the entire series and are of the extreme 

 abbreviate type. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



At Homestead the species was common on the prairie-like ever- 

 glades and also in the ''pot holes" in the pine woods, but not as 

 numerous as in March, 1910. The specimen from Long Key was 

 beaten from tall grasses in an open depressed area where Mermiria 

 mtertexta was taken. 

 Paxilla obesa (Sc). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 12, 1912; 1 c?, 2 9 , 2 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d" . 



These specimens were all taken in the low undergrowth of the pine 

 woods in not the usual very wet situations. 



Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; f) d^, 11 9 , 1 n. 



Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 4 c/-, 5 9 , 2 n. 



This is the first record for a species of the present genus from the 

 Florida Keys. The series was taken in company with Paratettix 

 rugosus, in bare spots on sun-baked marsh soil, where it was found 

 to be very scarce. 



Eadinotatum brevipenne peninsulare R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 49 c^, 22 9,3 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 14 cT, 4 9,1 9 n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 30 cf , 6 9 , 5 cf n., 11 9 n. 



The extensive Homestead and Detroit series of this race are per- 

 fectly typical in character, the Big Pine Key representation also 

 having all the distinguishing features of peninsulare, although of 

 sliglitlj^ smaller size. There is considerable individual variation 

 in size in all three lots, the extremes in length of l^od}" of each being 

 as follows: Homestead, d" 32.2-35.7, 9 42.3-46.7; Detroit, c^ 33.3- 

 35.2, 9 45.2-48; Big Pine Key, c^ 28.3-33, 9 37.3-40.8 mm. It will 

 be seen that the Big Pine Key maximum measurements no more than 

 touch the minimum of the other lots in the male sex and do not reach 

 the same in the female. The average of the Big Pine Key series is 

 very appreciably less than the maximum dimensions given for the 

 same lot. 



The Homestead series has the brown phase predominating, while 

 the Detroit and Big Pine Key lots have the green phase outnumbering 

 the brown in the male sex. 



At all three localities the form was found common in the low 

 undergrowth in the pine woods. The record from Big Pine Key is 

 the first for the genus on the keys. It is doubtless found on all the 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



islands possessing stands of pine, and not elsewhere, as the distri- 

 bution of the forms of this genus is limited by this controlling factor. 



Mermiria intertexta Scudder. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 5 d^, 1 9. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 18 a", 1 9,7 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 7 d^, 3 9 . 



The present series has been compared with a male from Georgia, 

 which is one of Scuclder's types. In size the present repre- 

 sentation shows no noteworthy difference except that the Long Key 

 females are slightly smaller than the other two of that sex. In color 

 the Homestead and Big Pine Key series are very similar, with the 

 pale base color showing no greenish except in the Big Pine Key 

 female. ■ The Long Key series, on the other hand, has the pale base 

 color greenish-yellow in the males, subochraceous in the females. 

 The three individuals of the latter sex from Long Key have the 

 discoidal area of the tegmina more or less distinctly maculate, 

 superficially somewhat suggesting Bruner's M. maculipennis. In 

 all of the Big Pine Key males the dark medio-longitudinal line is 

 present on the head and pronotum, indicated but incomplete in the 

 accompanying female, indicated more or less distinctly in all of the 

 Homestead males and entirely absent in the female, indicated on the 

 head and pronotum in four Long Key males, on the head and as a 

 lining on the pronotal carina in two males and all three females, and 

 present on the head and entirely absent from the pronotum in one 

 male from the same locality. In two of the seven Big Pine Key 

 nymphs there is no indication of this line and in the others it is only 

 faintly marked. 



At Homestead the species was infrequent in high grasses near the 

 edge of the prairie-like everglade, on Long Key it was not uncommon 

 in places where high grasses grew in an open depressed area, while 

 on Big Pine Key it was taken from low plants on the edge of a man- 

 grove swamp, where the males were not infrequent, the females 

 mostly immature and but two adults of that sex seen. 



Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 cf , 5 9,1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 cf n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 8 d', 3 9 , 2 c" n., 2 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 1 9 . 



The present series shows that the measurements previously given 

 by us of specimens from Miami, Homestead, Long Key, Key Vaca, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



and Boot Kcy^^ are probal)ly individual in the main and not geo- 

 graphic. As there stated, however, south Florida material is always 

 larger than Thomasville, Ga., specimens, although occasionally 

 but slightly so. The Big Pine Key series is quite similar in general 

 size to the individuals previously measured from Boot Key and 

 Key Vaca, although a single female is distinctly larger and subequal 

 to the smallest of the Long Key females, while one Homestead male 

 is subequal in proportions to the maximum Long Key males. Ex- 

 tremes of the present Homestead and Big Pine Key series, as well 

 as the Key West female, show the following measurements in milli- 

 meters: 



Homestead. Big Pi ne Key. 



Length of body ^. ^22.8 ^22"^ ^ 22.2 



Length of pronotum 4.4 4.5 4.2 4.4 



Length of tegmen 16.2 20. 17. 18.2 



Length of caudal femur 13.6 15.3. 13.4 14.5 



. Key 



Homestead. Big Pi ne Key. West. 



Length of body ^^. 337 31. 2^' 33.? 31.3 



Length of pronotum. .. 5.2 6. 5.8 6. 6. 



Length of tegmen 20.8 21.8 22. 22.8 23.7 



Length of caudal 



femur 16.8 18.8 18.8 19.4 19. 



The material from the keys which have scrub cover (Key Biscayne, 

 Long Key, Key Vaca, Boot Key, and Key West) is all either uniformly 

 colored or of the strongh' bicolored phase {i.e., dorsum solidly paler 

 than the lateral aspects), while that portion of the material from 

 pine woods (Miami, Homestead, Detroit, and Big Pine Key) contains 

 thirteen specimens distinctly lined with black on each side of the 

 median carina of the pronotum, in a number also distinctly punctulate 

 with dark brownish on the tegmina. The single nymph from Detroit 

 and one of the four from Homestead have the blackish lineations on 

 the pronotum, showing that this coloration is fixed before the adult 

 condition is reached. 



At Homestead the species was uncommon in the pine woods, 

 nymphs, however, being abundant, while the single nymph from 

 Detroit was in similar surroundings. In the pine woods on Big 

 Pine Key the species occurred in fair numbers, while the Key West 

 female, all seen at that locality, was taken in the scrub. 



1' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 252. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Orphulella pelidna (Burmeieter). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 9. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 2 c^. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 3 cf , 5 9,1 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 3 c^, 7 9 . 



Garden Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 1 9 . 



None of the Big Pine Key series -are in the green phase, although 

 five of the seven Key West females and both of the same sex from 

 Homestead are in that phase. The Garden Key specimen is pale 

 rufeseent, but in structure normal for the species. 



At Homestead and on Big Pine Key the species occurred in the 

 undergrowth of pine woods, on Garden Key it was very common in 

 short grass growing in the enclosure of Fort Jefferson, on Long Key 

 it was secured in the depressed grassy area where Mermiria intertexta 

 was also taken, and on Key West it was scarce among green herl:)age 

 and grasses in scattered gumbo-limbo forest. At the latter locality 

 nymphs were numerous. 



Clinocephalus elegans pulcher R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 30 c?, 17 9 , 1 cf n., 1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 cf, 2 9. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 5 c^, 3 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 6 c^, 9 9,1 9 n. 



The range of this beautiful form is extended by the present records 

 from the vicinity of Miami to Key West. In size the Homestead 

 and Detroit series average rather large, but display a considerable 

 amount of individual variation among themselves, the Big Pine 

 Key series averages smaller and is much more uniform in size, while 

 the Key West series is quite large but individually variable. The 

 following measurements in millimeters are of the extremes of the 

 Homestead and Key West series and of an average pair from Big 

 Pine Key. 



^ Big Pine 



Homestead. Key West. Key. 



Length of body Ht^ 2172 18.5 ^19.5" 16.8 



Length of pronotum... 3.5 4.4 4. 4.2 3.5 



Caudal width of dor- 

 sum of pronotum 2. 2.2 2.2 2.3 2. 



Length of tegmen 10.8 12 . 7.5 9 . 7.5 



Length of caudal fe- 

 mur 10.8 12.2 11.8 12.8 10.7 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



o 

 . X- TT^ Big Pine 



Homestead. Key nest. Key. 



Length of body ' 26. 3~^ 3oT2 '27.5~^29. 24. 



Length of pronotum. 5. 5.8 5. 5.8 5. 



Caudal width of dor- 

 sum of pronotum 3 . 3.3 3.3 3.2 2.8 



Length of tegmen 15.8 12.2 10. 11.3 10. 



Length of caudal fe- 

 mur 14. 17. 15.7 17.8 14.6 



The Key West and Big Pine Key series are uniformly short-winged, 

 while the Homestead and Detroit representations have a far greater 

 proportion long-winged, abbreviate tegmina being present in five 

 females and the same condition approximated in two males. It is 

 probable that environment is the governing factor in regard to 

 tegminal and wing length in this form. 



All of the color phases known for this race are present in the series 

 in hand, the only lot very uniformly colored being the male series 

 from Key West, which are greenish with the usual postocular bars. 

 The females from Key West, however, show three different color 

 phases. 



At Key West this form was common in green herbage or grasses 

 in or near a gumbo limbo forest in company with Orphulella pelidna, 

 while on Big Pine Key it was taken in pine woods undergrowt.h. 

 Arphia granulata Sauss. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 4 d". 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 19. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 d^, 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 3 c^, 9 9 . 



Cruciform markings on the dorsum of the pronotum are more or 

 less noticeable in five specimens of the present series. The differ- 

 ences in coloration previously noted^** are found in the series before us. 



Examination of the material shows that Caudell's record of Arphia 

 sulphured from Key West is incorrect, the specimens belonging 

 unciuestionably to the present species. 



At the first three localities given above the species was scarce in 

 the low undergrowth of the pine woods, but at Key West it was well 

 distributed through the scrub and also in the open gumbo-limbo forest. 



Chortophaga australior R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 cT, 2 9,1 d" n. 

 Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d'. 



18 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 2.53. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 c^, 2 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 7 cT, 9 9 . 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 7 cf , 7 9 . 



The color phases of this species are well illustrated bj^ the above 

 series. No approach whatever is shown to Chortophaga cuhensis 

 (Sc). 



Spharagemon crepitans (Sauss.). 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 2 cT^, 4 9 . 



The specimens of this splendid insect from the above locality are 

 the most attenuate of a series of 37 individuals of the species before 

 us. Length of body, d' d" 26.7-27.3 mm., 9 9 34.-37.; length of 

 tegmen, dd 30.2-32.2, 9 9 34.-35.8. The caudal tibia? lack 

 the bright red coloration of Spharagemon bolli as is true of the entire 

 series of this species before us. 



The only situation in which this species was found was on the 

 ground under bushes in high jungle growth of the keys, where a few 

 scattered individuals and one small colony was encountered. The 

 species was very difficult to capture as the brush was too heavy to 

 use a net and the insects flew up hurriedly. Their flight was observed 

 to be usually low and for short distances. 

 Trimerotropis citrina Sc. 



Key West, Fla., July 4-5, 1912; 5 cf , 4 9 . 



This species was very scarce on bare roads and occasional on the 

 sand of the southern beach. 

 Romalea microptera (Beauv.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 25 d, 13 9 . 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 5 d, 5 9 . 



This series shows a considerable amount of individual variation in 

 size, the extremes measuring as follows : Length of body, cT cf 

 48.-54. mm., 9 9 60.-71.; length of pronotum, dd 13.4-18.8, 

 9 9 18.2-21.7; length of tegmen, dd 22.3-27.5, 9 9 23.8-32; 

 length of caudal femur, dd 23.7-31.; 9 9 30.7-36.5. All of the 

 specimens are of the typical phase of coloration. 



These insects were widely distributed in moderate numbers through 

 the undergrowth of the pine woods at both the above localities. 

 Leptysma marginicollis (Serv.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 9 c^, 8 9 , 1 c^ n., 1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 d. 



Two males and seven females are of the greenish phase of colora- 

 tion, while the postocular bars are strongly indicated in all of the 

 adults. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



At Homestead the species was common in the tall saw-grass of the 

 everglades and occasional over the prairie-like expanse, while at 

 Detroit it was taken in grasses on the edge of the "hammock" in 

 the pine woods. 

 Schistocerca alutacea (Harris). 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d". 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 c^. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 cf , 2 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 15 cT, 1 9 . 



All of these specimens are of the rusty-brown phase of coloration. 

 Several specimens have two darker markings weakly indicated on 

 the dorsal surfaces of the caudal femora. 



The species was found occasional at Big Pine Key on the edge of a 

 fringe of mangroves in tall bushes and low plants and not scarce 

 locally in the scrul^ on Key West. It was taken in the same situation 

 as Schistocerca obsciira at both Detroit and Long Key, at which 

 places the latter species was the more numerous. 

 Schistocerca obscura (Fabr.). 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 3 c^. 



Key Largo, Fla., July 11, 1912; 2 d". 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 3 9. 



The males are of the brilliant yellow striped phase of coloration, 

 while the females are rusty brown without a medio-longitudinal 

 stripe but somewhat mottled and, as in nearly all other specimens 

 of the species before us, the dorsal surfaces of the caudal femora 

 have two decidedly darker markings. 



The present species was found in the heavy "hammock" at 

 Detroit, occasional in weeds beside the railroad on Key Largo and in 

 the prevailing scrub on Long Key. 

 Schistocerca americana Sc 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 cf . 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 c^, 1 9 . 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 cf . 



Key Largo, Fla., July 11, 1912; 19. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 d". 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 7 d', 7 9 • 



Bird Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 9, 1912; 1 d'. 



Garden Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 1 9 • 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 7 d', 5 9 • 



This series bears out still more clearly the fact that the size and 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



wing length in the present species is much less in southern Florida 

 individuals than in more northern specimens and that this is par- 

 ticularly emphasized in individuals from the keys. A series of 

 fifteen male specimens from the outermost keys, Key West and the 

 Tortugas, give the following averages: Length of pronotum, 7.7 mm. 

 (7.1-8.4); length of tegmen, 34.9 (32.3-38.).!^ The females bear out 

 these facts in like manner. 



In the series from Loggerhead Key, there are three males remark- 

 able for the fact that the tegmina wholly lack maculations of any 

 kind, which gives the insects a very distinctive appearance. No 

 intermediates between this and the normal color phase were seen, 

 but no characters exist to separate the specimens from typical 

 americana, the difference being simply due to a loss of a portion of 

 the color pattern through recession. 



Though only occasional at the majority of localities, this species 

 was very common through the scrub on Key West and quite numerous 

 on Loggerhead Key in open spots where the sandy soil was covered 

 with beach plants, grasses, and prickly pear. 

 Schistocerca damnifica calidior R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 3 cf, 1 9. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 2 d', 1 9 . 



At both of the above localities individuals were very scarce in the 

 low undergrowth of the pine woods. One male, taken at Homestead, 

 was very soft when captured, having but recently moulted into the 

 mature condition. 



Eotettix signatus Sc 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 39 cf , 42 9 , 1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 d^, 4 9 . 



The large series before us shows that not only is there great varia- 

 tion in size and tegminal length in specimens from the same locality, 

 but also that specimens from the more southern localities in the 

 species distribution average much smaller than those found further 



north. 



Measurements {in millimeters) of extremes. 



Pablo Beach, Fla. 



5 c^cf ' 399" 



Length of body 19.4-20.5 20. -26.5 



Length of pronotum 4.7-4.9 6-2~ ^'^ 



Length of tegmen 5.-6.1 7.6-8.5 



Length of caudal femur 12 .-12.6 15 . 5-16 . 6 



" For further notes on this variation see Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 2.57. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Homestead and Detroit, P^la. 



ll ~d^ 46 9 9 



Length of body 14 . 2-17 .6 19 . 5-24 . 8 



Length of pronotum 3.4-4. 4.3-5.7 



Length of tegmen 4.3-5.6 5.1-7.6 



Length of caudal femur 10.-11.4 12.-15.1 



The present species, in spite of the great variabiUty in tegminal 

 length, always has these organs longer than the pronotum and broad 

 lanceolate with acute apex, which readily distinguishes the species 

 from Eotettix palustris which has the tegmina not as long as the 

 pronotum and broadly oval with rounded apex. 



Like Eotettix pusillus and E. sylvestris, this form has in life a 

 striking metallic lustre which has almost wholly disappeared in all 

 of the dried specimens. 



The species was found very common on the prairie-like everglades 

 and in much fewer numbers about pot-holes in the pine woods, it 

 has never been definitely recorded previously except from Pablo 

 Beach in northeastern Florida. 



Melanoplus puer Sc 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 c^, 2 9,2 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d', 1 9 , 1 9 n. 



The species was very scarce at the above localities in the under- 

 growth of the pine woods. 



Paroxya atlantica Sc 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 10 o^, 2 9. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 cf , 2 9 . 



The Detroit specimens show a slight tendency toward the keys 

 race, P. atlantica par oxyoides. 



Paroxya atlantica paroxyoides (Sc). 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 3 d', 3 9,1 9 n. 



Ley Largo, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 cf, 1 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 3 cf • 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 6 cT, 1 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 13 d^, 10 9 . 



On Big Pine Key this geographic race was found in the undergrowth 

 of the pine woods and along the edge of the key in few numbers. 

 At Key West it was not scarce in the scrub and common in the 

 vegetation back of the beach, while in the heavy jungle-like tangle 

 it was the only species of grasshopper that was not scarce. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Paroxya floridana (Thomas). 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 5 cf , 3 9 • 



The species was common in the typical saw-grass growing in knee- 

 high water in the everglades. 

 Aptenopedes clara Rehn. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 12, 1912; 3 d', 3 9,1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 3 cf , 1 d' n., 2 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 2 d', 2 9 , 1 d' n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 a", 3 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 10 c^, 12 9 . 



This species was found in the undergrowth of the pine woods and 

 keys scrub, usually in damper situations than Aptenopedes aptera. 



Aptenopedes aptera Sc. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d", 3 cf n., 4 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d" n., 2 9 n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 c^ n., 3 9 n. 



The majority of the series are somewhat less than half grown. 

 As this is an apterous species, none of the nymphs have any trace of 

 tegmina, this together with their greater rugosity makes them easily 

 separable from nymphs of Aptenopedes clara, which show tegminal 

 sheaths from the earliest instars. 



This species has not been recorded previously south of Miami, Fla. 



TETTIGONIID^. 

 Arethaea phalangium (Scudder). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 1 d', 2 9. 



These specimens were found dead in spider-webs on the railroad 

 station building.^o 



Amblycorypha floridana R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 8 d', 6 9,1 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 d', 2 9 , 1 o' n. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 cf . 



The character of the tympanum of the male tegmina is typical 

 in all of the individuals of that sex, while the ovipositor varies some- 

 what in depth and appreciably in length, the extremes of the latter 

 in the Homestead females being ten and a half and eleven and eight- 

 tenths millimeters. The blackish markings on the tympanum of 

 the males vary considerably^ in intensity, in one extreme covering 

 practically all of that field except the sutural half of the area proximad 



20 Vide, Rehn and Hebard, Trans. Amer. Enlom. Soc, XL, pp. 147, 148 (1914). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



of the stridulating vein, while in the other this coloration is decided 

 only in spots, one proximad, one distad, and one immediately distad 

 of the stridulating vein. One male from Homestead is quite brown- 

 ish, two females from the same locality are dull straw colored or 

 washed with brownish, while two Detroit females are much tinged 

 on the pronotum and proximad on the tegmina with pale reddish- 

 brown. A half-grown nymph from Miami, Fla., taken March 28, 

 1910, gives us an idea of the condition of individuals of the species 

 at that time of year. 



At Homestead this species occurred locally on the prairie-like 

 everglades, where they were scarce in the daytime, but plentiful at 

 night, perched on the grasses, stridulating fearlessly. Their note is 

 an indescribable buzz and click. The Detroit specimens were taken 

 in pine woods on the edge of a hammock, and on Big Pine Key the 

 species was beaten from green bushes in the pine woods. Two 

 specimens were found dead in spider-webs at the railroad station 

 at Homestead on July 10. 



Amblycorypha uhleri St41. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 5 c^, 6 9 . 



When compared with Texan material of this species, the present 

 series is seen to be identical, although the size is much greater than 

 in individuals from New Jersey, which, however, show no specific 

 differences from Texan topotypes. When careful examination of 

 all the available material has been made, it will probably be found 

 that the size regularly decreases northward. All of the males and 

 several of the females have much of the pronotum, pleura, and 

 proximal portion of the tegmina more or less ochraceous. Four of 

 the males have the blackish tympanal maculation decided. The 

 species was fairly common at Homestead, more numerous at night 

 than in the daytime, always in the pine woods and in or near large- 

 leaved small bushes of several species. When search was made for 

 them at night with the aid of a flash-lamp, they proved to be quite 

 shy, flying frequently before their exact location could be ascertained. 

 Two specimens were taken from spider-webs on the station building 

 at Homestead, July 10. 



Microcentrum rhombifolium (Saussure). 



Key West, Fla., July 3, 1912; 1 d". 



The present specimen was taken from high bushes about twelve 

 feet from the ground, several others being heard in the same vicin'ty. 

 This is the first record of this widespread species from the keys. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Microcentrum rostratum R. and H. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 10 c^, 1 cf n. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 cf n., 1 9 n. 



This striking and peculiar species was taken in but one location 

 on Key West, and there it was found at night locally numerous but 

 hard to secure. Individuals were taken only on buttonwood (Cono- 

 carpus erecta) on the two occasions on which the spot was visited. 

 All the specimens were stalked with flash-lamp by the aid of their 

 song, in consequence none but males being captured. Their note is 

 quite different from that of any of the other species of the family 

 found on the keys, being low and rasping, much like zrrrp-zrrrp, 

 zrrrp. On Long Key the nymphs were taken from buttonwood {Cono- 

 carpus erecta), which there grows on the edge of mangrove swamps. 



As the species was previously known only from the unique type, a 

 female, we have made some notes on the differences of that sex from 

 the original description. ^^ 



Allotype: & ; Key West, Florida. July 3-7, 1912. (Rehn and 

 Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Fastigium slightly more compressed than in the female, but other- 

 wise similar. Tympanum of tegmina half again as long as the disk 

 of the pronotum, stridulating vein broad, depressed, arcuate, slightly 

 obliciue. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment arcuato-truncate mesad, 

 with a medio-longitudinal depression; supra-anal plate trigonal, 

 with a deep median sulcation; cerci tapering, nearly straight, con- 

 sideral)ly surpassing the distal margin of the subgenital plate, the 

 apex blunted and slightly hooked dorsad, furnished dorsad with a 

 pair of teeth placed side by side and with a single tooth placed ventrad 

 of the same; subgenital plate ample, narrowing distad, lateral 

 margins slightly arcuate but subregularly converging, distal extremity 

 narrow, arcuato-emarginate, styles articulate, slightly tapering, their 

 length not greater than the width of the distal extremity of the plate. 



Measurements {in millimeters) . 



Allotype, cf. 



Length of body : I 20 . 8 



Length of pronotum 5 . 3 



Caudal width of the disk of the pronotum 4 . 1 



Length of tegmen 28 . 8 



Greatest width of tegmen 7.5 



Length of caudal femur 15 .6 



Length of caudal tibia 16 .8 



2^ By an unfortunate transjiosition, the original description states that the 

 lateral angles of the pronotal disk are "more apparent cephalad than caudad," 

 when the reverse is true of the type and the present material. (Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. 8ci. Phila., 1905, p. 4.3.) 




191-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



In size the present series shows but little variation. The two 

 Long Key nymphs are in quite different stages, the male being in the 

 instar preceding maturity, while tiie female is not a third the size 

 of the male. The Key West nymph is in the second instar preceding 

 maturity. 

 Belocephalus sabalis Davis. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10, 1912; 28 &. 



Marathon, Kay Vaca, Fla., July 9, 1912; 1 cT. 



A comparison of this interesting series, the largest known of any 

 single species of the genus, with a paratypic male from Punta Gorda, 

 kindly presented to us by Mr. Davis, shows that while fully in accord 

 in all the important specific characters the Homestead series uni- 

 formly differs in having the fastigium shorter, though of similar 

 form, while the black marking of the clypeal suture is pronounced 

 only in the brown phase and not always present in that condition. 

 One single green male shows indications of this sutural marking, but 

 in the others the face is unicolorous. The Marathon male has the 

 fastigium more as in the paratype than is true of the Homestead 

 specimens, but the apex is even there less elongate than in the Punta 

 Gorda specimens, while the clypeal suture has no black. These 

 differences are probably environmental or geographic but hardly 

 specific in character. 



In size there is considerable individual variation, the extremes of 



the Homestead series presenting the measurements in millimeters 



given below, with which are placed those of the Marathon male, 



which appreciably surpasses in build any from the mainland, and 



of the Punta Gorda paratype. 



Punta 

 Marathon, Gorda 



Homestead. Kgy Vaca. (paratype) . 



Length of body 34. 41. 45. 38.6 



Length of fastigium from eyes 3.1 3.5 4.2 4.5 



Length of pronotum 8.6 8.6 10.4 9.2 



Length of tegmen 5.2 6.7 7.9 7.1 



Length of caudal femur 15.9 16.2 19.7 18. 



Seven of the Homestead males are in the brown phase, all of the 

 remainder in the green phase of coloration. The brown specimens 

 have the broad dorsal darker bar mentioned by Davis. 



At Homestead the species was very common on scrub palmetto 

 {Serenoa serrulata) in the pine woods, rarely on other plants (two on 

 sugar cane, one on a pine tree, and one on a low bush) and only found 

 at night, when their stridulations permitted stalking with a flash- 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



lamp. The song was faint and ceased on an approach of even as 

 much as twenty feet. However, they were easy to capture when 

 located, as they almost invariably made no attempt to escape, but 

 instead merely slipped down the palmetto leaf a few inches or around 

 to the other side and there flattened themselves out with caudal 

 limbs extended backward and cephalic limbs forward. When picked 

 up they would violently attempt to bite their captor, and if successful 

 could inflict a painful bite on a tender portion of the hand. Their 

 jaws are capable of cutting the tough palmetto leaves and in conse- 

 quence are very powerful. Their note is very low and consists of a 

 succession of sounds like zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip-zip. 



Neoconoceplialus mexicanus (Saussure). 



Conocephalus fusco-striatus Redtenbacher, Verh. K.-k. Zool.-botan. Gesell. 

 Wien, XLI, p. 399 (1891). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 6 d', 1 .9. 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 c^. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 5 d', 1 9 n. 



At Homestead two perfectly typical males of fusco-striatus were 

 taken in company with typical specimens of mexicanus, of which we 

 are thoroughly convinced the former is merely the brown-color phase, 

 absolutely no structural differences being found on careful examina- 

 tion. The song of individuals in the different phases was noted as 

 being the same, a krzzzzz-krzzzzz-krzzzzz, each preceded, when one 

 is near enough to detect it, by a sharp buzz. Individuals were only 

 occasional in the pine woods at Homestead at night and exceedingly 

 shy, although permitting a near approach until they ceased singing, 

 when, however, they would dart wildly away. At Jewfish many 

 were heard singing in high grasses, from which one was taken. All 

 the specimens from Key West were secured in the scrub jungle, both 

 in the daytime and at night, many nymphs being seen. 



As remarked above, two individuals from Homestead are in the 

 brown phase, all the others being in the green phase. The specimens 

 in the latter condition show considerable variation in the l)lackish 

 fastigial marking, this varying from the faintest possible median 

 indication to quite a broad solid band crossing the entire fastigium. 



Neoconocephalus velox n. sp. 



This peculiar species has been carefully compared with all the 

 available material of the genus from the United States, Central 

 America, and the West Indies, as well as with all the literature bearing 

 on the subject, and is found to show nearest relationship to A'. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



403 



palustris. From this species it differs in the more slender, com- 

 pressed form, which is unusually pronounced for the male sex of this 

 genus, with the tympanum in consequence much narrowed, while 

 the pronotum is exceptionally attenuate. 



Type: d" ; Homestead, Dade County, Florida. July 12, 1912. 

 (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size moderately large; form compressed, slender, elongate. Head 

 with the dorsal length considerably less than that of the pronotum; 

 fastigium with its length bej^ond the eyes slightlj- greater than the 

 space between the latter, subattenuate, tapering verj' gently distad, 

 the apex very bluntly rounded, ventral tooth distinct, blunt, well 

 separated from the facial fastigium; face strongly retreating; eyes 

 ovato-trigonal, their depth slightly less than their length, com- 

 pressed and but little prominent when seen from the dorsal aspect; 



Fig. .5.— Side view of tj'pe of Neoconocephalus velox n. sp. (X li-) 



antennae moderately elongate, in an incomplete condition four-fifths 

 as long as the tegmina. Pronotum Avith the surface impresso- 

 punctate, elongate, narrow, the greatest (caudal) width of the 

 dorsum but slightly more than half the length of the same, the 

 cephalic width about two-thirds the caudal width, cephalic margin 

 of disk truncate, caudal margin of same arcuate, obtuse-angulate, 

 the dorsal length of the prozona contained three and one-half times 

 in that of the metazona, lateral angles distinct, rotundato-sub- 

 rectangulate caudad, well rounded cephalad, regularly but not 

 decidedly diverging caudad; lateral lobes elongate, the greatest 

 depth contained slightly more than one and one-half times in the 

 greatest dorsal length,"" cephalic margin strongly oblique, faintly 

 arcuate, ventro-cephalic angle broad arcuate, ventral margin more 

 ol)lique than usual, straight, ventro-caudal angle arcuato-obtuse, 

 caudal margin with a deep rotundato-subrectangulate humeral 

 sinus, the ventral portion of the same margin oblique arcuate. 

 Tegmina elongate, the greatest width contained about six and 

 27 




404 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Fig. 6, — Dorsal 

 outline of 

 head, prono- 

 tum and tym- 

 panum of type 

 of Neocono- 

 cephalus velox 

 n.sp. (Xli) 



one-half times in the length ; costal margin gently arcuate distad to 

 the rather narrow suboblique rotundato-truncate apex; tympanum 

 slightly longer than the disk of the pronotum, its greatest width 

 subequal to the caudal width of the latter, stridulating vein short, 

 slightly oblique, greatly thickened. Prosternum 

 long bispinose; lobes of the mesosternum and 

 metasternum slightly acute-angulate. Disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment with the distal margin arcuato- 

 emarginate, subacute and faintly tuberculate laterad, 

 strongly arcuato-emarginate at the base of each 

 cercus; supra-anal plate trigonal, slightly elongate, 

 lateral margins moderately concave, apex narrowly 

 rounded, medio-longitudinal sulcus pronounced; 

 cerci with the shaft robust, the surface of same 

 subpustulate, ventral extremity bent mesad and 

 slightly proximad, sinuate, acuminate, with a strong 

 terminal spine, dorsal extremity with a shorter 

 process, which is, however, similarly developed and 

 with a slightly longer spine; subgenital plate 

 moderately broad, tricarinate ventrad, the lateral 

 carinse heavier and more rounded than the median, being the trunks 

 bearing the styles, which latter are brief, rather blunt, and faintly 

 tapering, distal margin of plate obtuse-angulate emarginate. Cephalic 

 femora about four-fifths as long as the dorsum of the pronotum, 

 ventro-cephalic margin distad with two to three spines, ventro- 

 caudal margin unarmed; cephalic tibia? unarmed dorsad. Median 

 femora a fourth longer than the cephalic femora, margin similar. 

 Caudal femora about three-fifths as long as the tegmina, slender, 

 armed on the distal half of each of the ventral margins with six 

 spines. 



General color tawny-olive. Head with the dorsum of the fastigium, 

 occiput, and postocular region multilineate with weak bister lines, 

 lateral margins and apex of fastigium bordered with cream-buff, 

 ventral surface of fastigium with a faint purplish tinge, but no black; 

 eyes seal-brown; antenna? of the general color. Pronotum with the 

 dorsum very weakly and the lateral lobes, particularly dorsad, more 

 strongly washed with warm sepia, the position of the lateral angles 

 indicated ])y chamois lines. Tegmina with the discoidal field 

 sprinkled with small points varying from blackish to seal-brown in 

 tone. Limbs unicolorous, spines narrowly tipped with blackish 

 brown. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Measurements (in millimeters). ^ 



Length of body 40 . 5 



Length of fastigium (from eyes) 2.7 



Length of pronotum 9. 



Greatest caudal width of pronotum 5.2 



Length of tegmen 42. 



Length of caudal femur 25 .2 



This species was very shy and scarce in the pine woods at Home- 

 stead. It was only encountered at night, and while some few were 

 heard, but one other than the type was seen. The song of this 

 insect consists of a loud and sustained buzzing note. 



Homorocoryphus malivolans (Scudder). 



Conocephalus hoplomachiis Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 190.5, p. 46. (Chokoloskee, Monroe Co., Fla.) 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 cf . 



After a careful examination of the present specimen, the types 

 of Conocephalus hoplomachus and of Conocephalus malivolans 

 Scudder, we are convinced that hoplomachus represents the female 

 of malivolans. The latter was based on a single male from 

 Cedar Keys, Fla., which remained unique until the very different 

 female was described by us as C. hoplomachus. At that time we 

 examined the description of malivolans, but the sexual differences 

 are so great that we could not recognize the female then in hand as 

 the other sex of Scudder's species. The present specimen enables 

 us to establish the above synonymy, agreeing as the individual does 

 exactly with the original description and clearly being the male sex 

 of the apparently very different hoplomachus. 



The present specimen was taken during the daytime from saw 

 grass growing in knee-high water on the edge of the everglades. 



Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 8 a', 9 9 , 2 9 n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 7 cf , 5 9 , 1 9 n. 



Key Largo, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 9 . 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 9. 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 c^, 1 9 , 3 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 18 d', 6 9,6 9 n. 



These specimens average considerably larger than individuals 

 from southern Georgia and northern Florida, although each of the 

 present lots shows in itself considerable individual variation in size. 

 The maximum-sized individuals are from the keys, particularly in 

 the female sex, the greater majority of the males being no larger than 




406 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Homestead specimens, all, however, larger than northern Florida 

 representatives. The minimum and maximum measurements in 

 millimeters of each sex in the present series are as follows: 



Homestead. 



Length of body 12.5 ^^ U^ 



Length of pronotum 4.2 4.8 



Length of tegmen 3. 3.2 



Length of caudal femur 12.5 14.5 



Big Pine Key. 



Length of body 11.7 I2T8 



Length of pronotum 4 . 4 . 



Length of tegmen 2.8 2.8 



Length of caudal femur 12.2 12.5 



c? 



cf 



Detroit. 



o 



Homestead. Detroit. t ^^'^ 



, . ^ , . , Largo. 



Length of body (exclusive 



of ovipositor) 11.6 17. 15. 14. 20.3 



Length of pronotum 4.7 5. 4.9 5.3 6. 



Length of caudal femur 13.8 16 . 14 . 16.7 17.4 



Length of ovipositor 13. 13. 13.9 13.5 18.8 



9 



Ijong Big Pine t' -ixr t 



Key Key. ^^^y ^ ^^■^^- 

 Length of body (exclusive of 



ovipositor) 17.1 14.2 12.5 17. 



Length of pronotum 5.2 4.9 5.3 5.5 



Length of caudal femur 17.4 13.5 16.5 16. 



Length of ovipositor 17. 13. 16.2 18.5 



The range of the species is considerably extended to the southward 

 by the present records, as it was not previously known from south 

 of Sanford, Fla. 



At Homestead the species was not scarce in rank grasses in potholes 

 in the pine woods, at Detroit it was found in pine woods, on Key 

 West a f(nv adults and many nymphs were encountered in weedy 

 tangles and grassy spots in jungle brush, while on Big Pine Key it 

 was occasional in green herbage in the pine woods. 



Orchelimum nitidum llcdtonbaclior. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 4 cf , 3 9 . 



The present record is the most southern known for the species, 

 which has a considerable range to the northward. 




1914.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



At Detroit th(> species was not scarce in saw grass growing in the 

 knee-high water of the everglades. 



Orchelimum militare R. and H. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 cT, 1 9 . 



These specimens are inseparable from typical material of the 

 species, the range of which is here extended to the southward of its 

 former southern limit, Gainesville, Alachua County, Fla. 



This pair was taken in the same situation as the series of 0. pul- 

 cheUum. 



Orchelimum concinnum Scudder. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 5 cf , 9 9 • 



The present record slightly extends the range of this species to the 

 southward, the most southern previous record being from Chokolos- 

 kee, Fla. Three males have the facial maculation indistinct, this 

 certainly being due to desiccation in one specimen, but in the remain- 

 ing eleven it is decided and moderately variable in width. 



Individuals of this species were not uncommon in the prairie-like 

 everglades. 



Conocephalus fasciatus (DeCJeer). 



Miami, Fla., July 17-20, September 12, 1904 (Hebard); 2 cf , 2 9 . 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 9 . 



The range of the species is extended to the end of the Florida penin- 

 sula by the present records. 



Conocephalus gracillimus (Morse). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 10 d', 7 9 . 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 cf. 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 12 d^, 6 9 . 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 5 d" , 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 2 cf , 5 9 , 1 9 n. 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 2 d', 3 9, 

 1 d" n., 1 9 n. 



These specimens show that considerable color variation is present- 

 in the species, and while in a certain measure geographic, it is chiefly 

 individual. The Homestead series is in general uniformly quite 

 dark, two males, however, being rather pale. The single Detroit 

 individual is pale, as are most of the Jewfish specimens, none of which 

 are as dark as the average Homestead representative. Big Pine 

 Key specimens vary greatly, several having an average degree of 

 marking, while three have the general color pale yellowish. Key 

 West representatives are of the usual pattern in the female sex, but 




408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



the males are much paler with a weak pattern. The Loggerhead 

 Key series varies greatly in color, three adults and both of the nymphs 

 having the pattern more or less distinctly indicated on a pale base 

 color, while the other two adults are uniformly ochraceous without 

 markings. 



The specimens from the keys average slightly larger than the 

 individuals from the mainland, the Key West females having this 

 most apparent. 



At Homestead the species occurred in potholes and in the prairie- 

 like everglades, at Jewfish it was common in grasses on the edge of 

 the everglades, on Key West it was not scarce in grassy tangles 

 scattered through the jungle scrub, while on Loggerhead Key it 

 frequented grasses growing on open areas among the bay-cedar 

 thickets. 



Ceuthophilus peninsularis n.'sp. 



Apparently nearest to C. spinosus Brunner from Georgia, but 

 differing in the absence of pronounced spines on the external margin 



Fig. 7. — Side view of type of Ceuthophilus peninsularu n. sp. (X 3.) 



of the caudal femora, in the non-arcuate caudal tibiae, in the smaller 

 size, and in the rather different coloration. It also shows some 

 relationship to C nigricans Scudder in the longer caudal femora and 

 tibiae, in the long distal spine on the ventro-cephalic margin of the 

 cephalic femora, in the same margin of the median femora having 

 four spines, in the caudal femora being longer instead of shorter than 

 the body, slenderer and three times as long as broad, in the ventro- 

 internal margin of the caudal femora being more strongly serrato- 

 dentate than the external, inner middle spur of the caudal tibiae 

 not markedly longer than the external middle one and l)ut little 

 shorter than the metatarsus. 




191-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Type: &; Homestead, Dade County, Fla. July 12, 1912. 

 (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size rather small; body subfusiform, glabrous. Fastigium strongly 

 declivent, Ioav; eyes not at all prominent; antennse in an imperfect 

 condition reaching to the apices of the caudal femora, rather heavy. 

 Pronotum with the cephalic and caudal margins truncate, ventral 

 margin of the lateral lobes flattened arcuate. Mesonotum and 

 metanotum with their caudal margins subarcuate. Abdomen with 

 the segments glabrous; cerci shorter than the pronotum, robust at 

 the base and decidedly tapering to the acute apex. Cephalic femora 

 about a tenth longer than the pronotum, armed on the ventro- 

 cephalic margin with three spines placed on the distal half, the distal 

 spine quite long and equalling the cephalic tibial spines in length, 

 the others diminishing in length, ventro-caudal margin unarmed. 

 Median femora subequal to the cephalic femora in length, slightly 

 less robust, armed on the ventro-cephalic margin with four spines 

 proportioned as on the cephalic femora, ventro-caudal margin armed 

 with three subequal spines, caudal genicular lobe bearing a long 

 spine. Caudal femora longer than the body, moderately robust, 

 the greatest width contained three times in the length, dorsal surface 

 with the dark areas of the pattern bearing numerous depressed 

 points, a group of more decided spiniform points present dorsad on 

 the internal face, ventro-external margin of the caudal femora with 

 weak recumbent serrulato-spinulations, ventro-internal margin distad 

 with seven distinct but recumbent serrato-spinulations; caudal 

 tibige less than a twelfth longer than the caudal femora, straight, 

 spurs subopposite distad, subalternating proximad, about one and 

 one-half times as long as the tibial depth, slightly hooked at the tips, 

 inner middle spur appreciably longer than the outer middle spur 

 and subequal to the metatarsus in length, dorsal spurs of both 

 faces slightly longer than the ventral ones, ventral surface of tibiae 

 distad with a single spine in addition to the apical pair; caudal tarsi 

 with the third joint about half the length of the second, together 

 very slightly shorter than the fourth. 



Dorsal surface solidly brownish-black, passing into cinnamon-buff 

 on the ventral surface, the pale coloration on the femora antique 

 brown (Ridgway, Plate III), the head, pronotum, and dorsum of 

 a})domen with a distinct continuous medio-longitudinal line of ferru- 

 ginous. Face and palpi of the ventral color, the facial fastigium, 

 a spot under each eye and a touch on the genae of the dorsal color, 

 the third palpal joint lightly and the fourth heavily marked with 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the same; eyes black; antennae cream-buff, proximad passing into 

 bister. Ventral section of the lateral lobes of the pronotum and 

 corresponding portions of the mesonotum and metanotum stippled 

 with the ventral color. Abdomen dorsad bearing on each side two 

 complete and several incomplete longitudinal series of circular 

 ferruginous spots; cerci of the ventral color, becoming bister distad. 

 Cephalic and median femora with their distal halves and greater 

 portion of corresponding tibiae brownish-black. Caudal femora 

 with a decided scalariform pattern of blackish-brown, the latter 

 color nearly solid distad and along the ventro-lateral margin; caudal 

 tibiffi honey-yellow, proximal extremity and dorsal surface brownish- 

 black. All tarsi uniformly cream color. 



Measurements (in ynillimeters) . Type, cf . 



Length of body 10 . 8 



Length of pronotum 4 . 9 



Length of cephalic femur 5.2 



Length of caudal femur 12 .6 



Length of caudal tibia 13 .5 



The type of this species was found under a coquina boulder in the 

 everglades near the edge of the pine woods. A very immature speci- 

 men of what is apparently this species was also taken at Homestead, 

 March 17-19, 1910, by Hebard. 



GRYLLID^. 

 Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redt.). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 5 cf , 4 9 , 1 cf n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 2 9 . 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 c^, 3 9 . 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 2 cf , 3 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 15 cf , 22 9 , 1 d' n., 1 9 n. 



Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, Fla., July 8, 1912; 1 9 . 



This species is widely distributed through the keys scrub and in 

 "hammock" shrubbery on the mainland, as well as in weedy spots 

 and vine tangles. One specimen was taken from an epiphyte 

 (Epidendron tampense) growing on an oak in the "hammock" at 

 Detroit. The species was found scarce in the bay-cedar bushes 

 (Suriana maritima) on Loggerhead Key. 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum R. and H. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d" n. 

 Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 9 n. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



The specimen from Detroit was taken from an oak in the "ham- 

 mock. 



Cycloptilum zebra K. and H. 



Key West, Fla., July 7, 1912; 1 d^. 



A numlier of specimens were heard after dark stridulating in short 

 grass growing in the street railway track. The song is a faint 

 krik-krik-krik-krik, suggesting that of a species of Nemobius, but much 

 fainter. 

 Nemobius fasoiatus socius Sc.22 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d" . 



Nemobius ambitiosus Sc.22 



Homestead,. Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 cf. 

 Nomobius cubensis Sauss.22 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 3 (^, 3 9. 

 Nemobius carolinus Sc.22 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d^, 1 9 . 

 Miogryllus saussurei (Sc). 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 9 , 1 9 n. 



Found in the undergrowth of the pine woods. 



Gryllus firmus Sc 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 1 d^ . Macropterous. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 9 . 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 2 d^, 1 9 . Id', macropterous. 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 2 cf . 



Great variation in size is found in this small series, the males 

 measuring in length 20.5-29. mm., the females 25.-25.7. The song 

 is a loud, sharp, vigorous chirruping. 

 Gryllus rubens Sc. 



Homestead, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d". Macropterous. 



This specimen was taken on the railroad track, "making a slower 

 stridulation noticeably different from the hearty chirp of Gryllus 

 firmus." 

 Gryllodes sigillatus (Walk.). 



Jewfish, Fla., July 11, 1912; 2 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3, 7, 1912; 4 d', 1 9 . 



A few individuals of this species were found under boards in the 

 station yard at Jewfish, while the species was everywhere common 

 at Key West about the town. After dark at the latter locality the 



22 These specimens have recently been fullv studied by the junior author. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, pp. 394-491. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



high, hurried, shrilling song of the species was to be heard on all 

 sides, and with the aid of a tiash-lamp individuals were easily taken 

 when carefully approached and suddenly seized; this was apparently 

 due to the fact that the specimens were blinded by the light, for the 

 species is certainly the most active gryllid found within the United 

 States. 



Cyrtoxipha gundlachi Sauss. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912. Numerous in fig trees near 

 house. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 9- 



Key Largo, Fla., July 11, 1912; 1 d". 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 d', 2 9 . 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 4 d^, 3 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 9 d', 12 9,1 gynandromorph. 



This series of specimens is very uniform in size, the male from 

 Key Largo only being slightly larger than the other specimens. 

 One specimen from Key West is a gynandromorph, the left tegmen is 

 typical of the male sex while the right is that of the female, the left 

 valves of a much distorted and shrivelled ovipositor are present, 

 while the right half of the genitalia are masculine. 



This species was found occasional everywhere through the Keys 

 scrub, but in numbers only in bushes and low trees with broad leaves. 

 The pleasant, clear, tinkling song of this insect is a familiar night 

 sound almost everywhere in this region. 

 Hapithus quadratus So. 



Homestead, Fla., July 10-12, 1912; 2 cf n. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 d', 2 cT n. 



Long Key, Fla., July 13, 1912; 1 d', 8 9 • 



Big Pine Key, Fla., July 6, 1912; 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., July 3-7, 1912; 4 d', 9 9 , 1 d^ n., 1 9 n. 



The present species is occasional throughout this region in low 

 shrubbery and tangles of bushes and vines; it was found once in 

 moderate numbers, in the keys scrub on Long Key. 



Tafalisca lurida Walk. 



Detroit, Fla., July 12, 1912; 1 9 , 1 9 n. 



The adult was taken from an epiphyte {Tillandsia fasciculata) 

 growing on the limb of an oak in the heavy "hammock," while the 

 nymph was later l)eaten from a low bush there. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



THE VASCULAR SYSTEM OF THE FLORIDA ALLIGATOR, 

 BY ALBERT M. REESE. 



The account given by Bronn in his Thierreich is apparently the 

 onh' published description of the circulatory organs in the Croco- 

 dilia. This account, even when translated, is not very satisfactory, 

 especially because it contains no diagrams of the circulation. It 

 was, therefore, deemed worth while to work out the circulation in 

 the Florida alligator in order that we might have not only a written 

 description, but also a series of more or less accurate diagrams of 

 the veins and arteries. 



A number of departures from the description of Bronn were 

 found, some of which are noted below. 



Most of the work was done upon animals of about 30 inches 

 length, which were obtained alive from the Arkansas Alligator Farm 

 at Hot Springs, Ark. 



The arteries were injected with a colored starch mass by inserting 

 a two-way cannula into the dorsal aorta. With the blood thus 

 forced into them from the arteries, the veins could, in most cases, 

 be traced without difficulty. 



In the diagrams the outlines of the more important organs are 



accurately shown by dotted lines, and the relative diameters of the- 



blood-vessels are shown as accurately as possible by the solid Ijlack 



lines. 



The Heart. 



In the Crocodilia, as is well known, the heart is four-chambered 

 and has about the same general shape as in the higher vertebrates. 



The venous blood is emptied into a thin-walled sinus venosus on 

 the dorsal side of the heart by three large vessels and one small one. 

 The largest of these, the postcava, empties into the posterior side 

 of the sinus venosus and brings blood from the posterior regions of 

 the body; it is quite wide, but is exposed for a very short distance 

 between the liver and the heart. Two large hepatic veins empty 

 into the postcava so near the sinus venosus that they practically 

 have openings into the sinus, as is shown in a somewhat exaggerated 

 way in Plate XIII, fig. 1. Near the postcaval and hepatic openings 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



is the distinct coronary vein, lying in a slight depression between 

 the right and left ventricles. 



From the anterior regions of the body the blood is brought back 

 through two fairly wide but very thin-walled precaval veins which 

 pass across the dorsal surface of the heart to enter the sinus venosus. 



The arterial blood is brought from the lungs by two wide, thin- 

 walled pulmonary veins, Plate XIII, fig. 4, v.p.d., v.p.s. They 

 leave the lungs somewhat caudad to their middle region, near the 

 point of entrance of the bronchii and the pulmonary arteries, pass 

 mediad in a direction almost at right angles to the long axis of the 

 body, and enter the left auricle at the same point. 



Blood leaves the heart through five large vessels: (1) the pul- 

 monary artery, (2) the two aortic arches, (3) the right subclavian, 

 (4) the primary carotid. 



The pulmonary leaves the small right ventricle as a single stem, 

 which soon branches into two arteries that pass cephalad and laterad 

 to the lungs, along with and close to the main bronchi. The other 

 arteries that carry blood into the systemic circulation are fused at 

 their base to form a sort of conus arteriosus which may be distended 

 in injected specimen until it is larger than the two ventricles together, 

 When opened this conus is found to contain two chambers that lead 

 into the left ventricle; the larger chamber gives origin to the right 

 systemic arch, the right subclavian, and the primary carotid; the 

 smaller chamber is the basal part of the left systemic arch. 



The two systemic vessels, fig. 4, Ao.s, Ao.d, pass, in the usual 

 manner, as two arches to the dorsal region, just posterior to the 

 ventricles, where they form the dorsal aorta in the manner to be 

 described in connection with the arterial system. 



The further course of the primary carotid and of the right sub- 

 clavian will also be described in connection with the arterial system. 



The auricles are very large in proportion to the ventricles, though 

 their relative sizes will, of course, vary with the amount of contained 

 blood. 



The Venous System. 



The Posterior Vena Cava and its Branches. 



The postcava, fig. 1, pc, as noted above, is a wide, thin-walled 

 vessel seen extending across the short space between the anterior 

 face of the right lobe of the liver and the sinus venosus. As was 

 also noted above, the hepatic veins, vh — at any rate that from the 

 left lobe of the liver — enter the postcava so close to the heart that 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



they may l)e considered to have one or more distinct openings into 

 the sinus venosus. Followed caudad, the postcava may he tracetl 

 through the large right lobe of the liver, from which it receives 

 several l^ranches. Emerging from the posterior border of the liver, 

 it is seen to extend caudad, in the median line, as a rather incon- 

 spicuous vessel that receives blood from the reproductive organs 

 and the kidneys that lie close on either side of it. 



The hepatic portal vein, h, has the usual distribution for that 

 vessel. Entering the liver in the neighborhood of the bile duct, it 

 receives first O'.e., nearest the liver) a small branch from the pan- 

 creas, pv; near the pancreatic are one or two branches from the 

 stomach, g, and a branch from the spleen, sp. A short distance 

 caudad to these vessels are two or three mesenteric veins, m, leading 

 from the mesentery and small intestine. Caudad to the mesen- 

 teries, the portal system may be seen as a vein of diminished caliber, 

 i, leading from the posterior part of the small intestine and from the 

 large intestine. 



The connection, mentioned by Bronn, between the rectal ranch 

 of the portal vein and the caudal vein could not be demonstrated. 

 After entering the liver, the portal, of course, breaks up into capil- 

 laries, and the blood thus distributed is recollected by the cap- 

 illaries of the hepatic veins above mentioned. 



The internal epigastric veins, ep, are, perhaps, the most conspicuous 

 vessels of the postcaval system. When the ventral abdominal wall 

 of the animal is removed, they may be seen extending forward from 

 the pelvic region, on each side of the body, to enter the posterior 

 edge of the liver. The epigastric of the right side enters the large 

 or right lobe of the liver, where it breaks up into capillaries; the 

 left epigastric sends its main branch into the left lobe of the liver, 

 but also sends a branch over to enter the right lobe. 



Following the epigastrics caudad, they are seen to receive vessels 

 from nearly all parts of the posterior region of the body. The left 

 epigastric, which extends across the ventral side of the stomach, 

 receives from that organ four or five branches, g^; while the farther 

 removed right epigastric receives only one or two branches from the 

 stomach. Posterior to these gastric veins the epigastrics receive 

 one or more veins, b, from the body wall and skin. Posterior, 

 again, to the last-named, veins each epigastric receives, in the pelvic 

 region, a large vein, the iliac, il, which receives, in turn, a vein from 

 the pelvis, pi, and continues down the thigh and lower leg to the 

 foot as the femoral, f, the chief vein of the posterior appendage. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



After receiving small branches from the muscles of the thigh, the 

 femoral receives near the knee a small branch from the posterior 

 surface of the lower leg, fb, and a larger one, t, that leads from the 

 anterior surface of the lower leg and foot. 



The veins of the pes were so small, in the comparatively small 

 animals it was necessary to use, that their distribution could not 

 be determined with certainty, though they seemed to parallel very 

 closely their corresponding arteries to be described below. 



A short distance caudad to the iliac veins, each epigastric receives 

 one or two fairly large branches from the pelvic region, called by 

 Bronn the ischiadic veins, is. Caudad to the ischiadics and dorsal 

 to the cloaca, each epigastric is united with a short but wide renal 

 portal or renal advehente vein, rp, leading to the posterior border of 

 its respective kidney and receiving, on the way, a short branch 

 from the pelvic region, shown just cephalad to the references lines 

 rt and rp. 



Very close to its junction with the renal portals each epigastric 

 gives off a small branch which unites with its fellow of the opposite 

 side to form a median vein, rt, the rectal leading from the posterior 

 part of the large intestine. A very short distance caudal to these 

 last veins, in the region just dorsal to the anal opening, the epigas- 

 trics are formed by the division of the caudal vein, cv, which, of 

 course, brings blood from the tail and is, on account of the large size 

 of that organ, of considerable caliber. 



The Anterior Vence Cavce and their Branches. 



The entrance of the precaval veins into the heart was mentioned 

 above; their branches, in order from the heart cephalad, will now 

 be described. Since the two precavse are alike, it will be necessary 

 to describe the branches of only one side of the body. After leaving 

 the heart, the precava may be traced forward, for a short distance, 

 at the side of the trachea and cjesophagus, as a wide, thin-walled 

 trunk, fig. 2, vca. The first tributaries that it receives arc the 

 internal mammary and vertebral veins, which join it at the base of 

 the neck at almost the same place. 



The internal mammary, fig. 2, im, is a rather small vein, l)ringing 

 blood from the ventral wall of the thorax. It may be followed 

 along the inner surface of the ribs, near the sternum, in company 

 with its corresponding artery. 



The vertebral vein, fig. 2, v, is also of small diameter and extends 

 to the dorsal body wall near the spinal colunm, from which region 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



it returns blood to the anterior vena cava; it is drawn too large in 

 the figure. 



Just cephalad to the vertebral and internal Aiammary, the internal 

 jugular, j, enters the precava. The internal jugular may be followed 

 directly forward, close to the side of the trachea and oesophagus, 

 from which it receives numerous branches. Near its point of entrance 

 to, or rather exit from, the skull, it anastomoses, by two or three 

 short branches, with the external jugular, ej, to be described later. 

 Its distribution in the cranial cavity could not be determined in the 

 available material. At the point of entry of the internal jugular 

 the precava passes laterad for a short distance and then divides into 

 two more or less equal branches, the above-mentioned external 

 jugular, ej, and the subclavian, s, of which the latter will first be 

 described. 



The subclavian, s, of course, returns blood from the regions of the 

 shoulder and arm. On reaching the body wall, where it might be 

 called the axillary, ax, it receives, on its posterior side, a large thoracic 

 vein, t, which returns blood from the thorax, shoulder, and skin. 

 The thoracic receives a branch from the posterior surface of the 

 arm, which might be called the postbrachial, pb; this postbrachial 

 may be traced, as a rather small vessel, to the hand; at the elbow 

 it is connected, by one or more small branches, with the brachial. 



Just distal to the thoracic the axillary vein receives two fairly 

 large vessels, the subscapulars, sc, that return blood from the shoulder 

 and upper arm. After receiving the subscapulars, the axillary may 

 be followed into the upper arm as the brachial, br. As has been said, 

 the brachial and postbrachial anastomose near the elbow, and in this 

 region the former receives a small vessel that extends parallel to it 

 from the manus. 



In the forearm the brachial may be called the radial, fig. 2, A, ra; 

 on the back of the manus the radial receives branches from the various 

 digits and from a rather complex plexus of vessels in the carpal 

 region. 



The external jugular, fig. 2, ej, after separating from the subclavian, 

 may be traced cephalad, close beneath the skin, to the base of the 

 skull, where it is connected with the internal jugular by short 

 branches, as has already been noted. It receives several small 

 branches from the skin and muscles of the neck and shoulder 

 regions. At the region of its anastomosis with the internal jugular 

 it receives a large branch, the muscular, ms, from the massive muscle 

 at the angle of the jaw and from the skin of that region. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A short distance cephalad to the muscular the external jugular 

 receives, on its mesial side, two or three branches from the trachea, 

 larynx, and oesophagus, tr. Anterior to these vessels the external 

 jugular is formed by the union of two chief veins, the lingual, 1, from 

 the ventro-lateral surface of the tongue, and the inferior dental, id, 

 from the mesial surface of the lower jaw. The connection of the 

 superior dental (extending along the bases of the maxillary teeth) 

 with the jugular could not be determined with certainty, hence 

 that vessel is not shown in the figure. The same is true of the 

 small veins in the region of the cranium. 



The Arterial System. 

 The Abdominal Aorta and its Branches. 



The right and left aortic arches, fig. 3, Ao.d, Ao.s, arising from 

 the heart in the manner already described, form a rather long loop 

 and approach each other in the middorsal line. Here they are 

 united by a short, wide connective in such a way that the left arch 

 seems continued into the coeliac arterj^ and the right into the dorsal 

 aorta proper. Each arch, anterior to the connective, gives off two 

 fairly large branches, oe, to the posterior region of the oesophagus. 



The cceliac arterj^ fig. 3, c, is the largest branch of the abdominal 

 aortic system. After giving off a couple of small branches, oe, to 

 the posterior region of the oesophagus, it gives off a large spleno- 

 intestinal artery, si, to the spleen and small intestine. 



The coeliac then breaks up into three arteries of about the same 

 size: the gastro-hepatico-intestinal, ghi, carrying blood to the stomach, 

 liver, and small intestine; the pancreo-intestinal, pi, leading to the 

 pancreas and small intestine; and the gastric, ga, to the greater 

 part of the stomach. 



From the dorsal aorta proper, da, which, as has been said, seems 

 to be the direct continuation of the right aortic arch, several arteries 

 are given off; these will be described as they occur in an anterio- 

 posterior direction. 



At about the point of union of the two aortic arches arises the 

 most anterior of seven or eight pairs of lumbar arteries, lu 1-7; 

 this first lumbar artery is continued cephalad for some distance as a 

 longitudinal trunk that gives off several lateral branches to the 

 walls of the thoracic region. The other six or seven lumbars are 

 distributed to the dorsal body wall, and arise, at more or less regular 

 intervals, as far caudad as the sacrum, or even back of that point. 



The first large branch of the aorta is the unpaired mesenteric 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



artery, m^, which is given off in about the region of the fourth pair 

 of lumbars; it carries blood through the mesentery to the greater 

 part of the small intestine and also sends a small branch to the 

 large intestine. 



Posterior to the mesenteric, the aorta gives off four or five pairs 

 of short arteries, the urogenitals, u 1-4, that lead to the nearby 

 reproductive organs and kidneys. 



About the middle region of the kidneys, a short distance anterior 

 to the sacrum, is given off a pair of rather large arteries, called by 

 Bronn the ischiadicce, is^; each ischiadica, after giving off a couple 

 of small branches to the back, passes laterad and divides into three 

 main branches: (P) to the ventral body wall, (3^) to the anterior 

 border and deeper region of the thigh, and (2^) to the pelvis. 



In the region of the sacrum is given off a pair of iliac arteries, il^ 

 Each iliac is of about the same diameter as the ischiadica and gives 

 off, soon after leaving the aorta, an artery, ab, that apparently leads 

 chiefly to the abdominal muscles. Distal to the origin of the abdomi- 

 nal, the iliac gives off a small pelvic artery, pa, which leads, as the 

 name would indicate, to the pelvis. The iliac then passes into the 

 thigh, where it gives off several large branches and may be called 

 the sciatic, sc. At the knee the sciatic gives off two rather small 

 branches, one, the fibular artery, f ^ extends down along the posterior 

 side of the lower leg; the other is parallel to the first and may be 

 called the tibial artery, tb, since it extends along the anterior or 

 tibial side of the shank. These two arteries give off numerous 

 branches to the muscles of the lower leg. After giving off the fibular 

 and tibial arteries, the sciatic passes, as a large vessel, through the 

 lower leg, to which it gives but few branches, and may here be 

 called the crural artery, cr. At the tarsus it divides rather suddenly 

 and, perhaps, variably, into four chief branches, leading to the 

 toes. 



A short distance caudad to the origin of the iliacs the dorsal aorta 

 gives off a pair of small pelvic arteries, pa^ going to the muscles of 

 that region. Caudal to these pelvis arteries is given off the un- 

 paired first hcemorrhoidal artery, he\ which divides into a rectal, rt^, 

 and a cloacal, cl, branch. 



Caudal to the first hsemorrhoidal arises the second hcemorrhoidal, 

 he^; also unpaired, leading to the cloaca. 



Posterior to the second haemorrhoidal, the aorta continues into 

 the tail as the large caudal artery, ca. 



28 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The Anterior Arteries. 



The origin of the great arterial trunks — the pulmonary, aortic 

 arches, primary carotid, and right subclavian — has already been 

 given and the distribution of the pulmonary arteries and aortic 

 arches has been described, so that it now remains to describe the 

 distribution of the right subclavian, fig. 4, Sc.d, and the primary 

 carotid, capr. 



The right subclavian, Sc.d., since it has an independent origin 

 from the heart, instead of arising as a branch of the primary carotid, 

 will he described first. After leaving the heart it passes cephalad 

 and laterad and gives off the following branches in order, beginning 

 at the heart: an oesophageal artery, oe, a small, caudally directed 

 vessel carrying blood to the posterior region of the oesophagus. Close 

 to the oesophageal arises another small, caudally directed vessel, 

 the pleural artery, plu, extending to the pleura and possibly to the 

 pericardium. From the same region as the preceding two arteries, 

 but extending cephalad along the trachea and oesophagus, arises the 

 much larger branch of the right subclavian, the right collateralis 

 colli, cc, whose course and distribution will be described later. 



Close to the distal side of the collateralis colli arises the very 

 small thyroid artery, th, leading to the oval thyroid gland that lies 

 against the ventral surface of the trachea a short distance anterior 

 to the heart. 



A short distance distal to the thyroid artery the subclavian gives 

 off a fairly large artery, the internal mammary, im^ (shown too large 

 in the figure), that passes to the inner surface of the ribs near the 

 sternum and lies parallel to the vein of the same name, described 

 above. 



A short distance distal to the internal mammary arises an artery 

 of about the same diameter, the vertebral, v,^; it passes dorsad and 

 caudad to the region of the thoracic vertebrae. 



After giving off the five vessels just described, the subclavian 

 artery passes into the shoulder where it divides into three main 

 branches: (a) the subscapular, sc^, going to the skin and muscles of 

 the shoulder; (b) the thoracic, t\ carrying blood to the posterior 

 muscles of the shoulder and to the posterior region of the upper 

 arm; (c) the brachial, br^ which is really the continuation of the 

 subclavian and is the chief artery of the anterior appendage. 



After sending several branches to the upper arm the brachial 

 divides, in the region of the elbow, into two main vessels, the radial, 




191-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



ra^ and ulnar, uP, arteries, fig. 4, A. The radial artery, in the 

 car]:>al region, divides in a complicated way into five main vessels 

 that extend into the digits. The ulnar artery gives off several 

 branches, to the forearm, but apparently does not connect directly 

 • with the branches to the digits. 



The primary carotid, capr. After leaving the heart, this very 

 largo vessel passes cephalad and laterad for some distance on the 

 left side of the body and then gives off, from its anterior side, the 

 large left subclavian artery, sc.s., to be described later. After 

 giving off the subclavian artery, it makes a short loop, still further 

 to the left, and then turns sharply mecliad to pass to the head in the 

 median plane directly dorsal to the oesophagus. Its distribution 

 in the cervical and cephalic region will be described later. The 

 mate to the oesophageal branch, oe (near heart), of the right sub- 

 clavian which was mentioned above is apparently sometimes given 

 off from the primary carotid near its base (as shown in fig. 4) and 

 sometimes as a branch of the left pleural artery. 



The left subclavian artery, sc.s., although it has a different origin, 

 has the same branches as described in connection with the right 

 subclavian. The exact order in which the first of these (the thyroid, 

 th; the internal mammary, im' ; the coUateralis colli, cc; the pleural, 

 plu, and the vertebral, v^) are given off is, as might be expected, 

 subject to some variation. 



The coUateralis colli, cc (following Bronn's nomenclature), whose 

 origin was noted above, will now be discussed; since the two are 

 alike only one need be described. After leaving the subclavian, it 

 passes cephalad, at the side of the trachea and oesophagus, in com- 

 pany with the internal jugular vein, so that in this part of its course 

 it would seem to be the internal carotid artery. It gives numerous 

 small twigs to the trachea and oesophagus, oe. In the region of 

 the posterior part of the huge jaw muscle it is connected directly, x, 

 with the adjacent branch, cm-, (called by Bronn the common carotid) 

 of the primary carotid, and indirectly, x^, with a complicated group 

 of branches from the common carotid. Cephalad to the connective 

 x^, which extends dorsad and is hence foreshortened in the figure, 

 the coUateralis colli gives off a small vessel, y (too large in fig 4), 

 to the shoulder and skin; it then sends a fairly large branch, jm, 

 into the large jaw muscle, close to which it now lies. Next a small 

 branch, Ig, is sent to the larynx. Continuing cephalad and laterad 

 (in figure 4 it is drawn further to the side than it actually lies) for a 

 short distance further, it divides into three branches: (1) a short 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



twig, mg, that goes to the musk gland on the side of the mandible 

 and to the skin of that region; (2) a large branch, the mandibular, 

 md, that enters the large foramen on the mesial side of the mandible 

 and extends in the cavity of that bone throughout its entire length; 

 (3) the lingual artery, P, which, in turn, divides, some distance 

 cephalad, into two branches, one extending along the lateral region, 

 the other nearer the mid-ventral surface of the tongue. It is seen, 

 then, that the collateralis colli arteries supply directly the lower side 

 of the head — tongue, mandible etc. — though they may also send 

 blood through the above-mentioned connectives to the brain and 

 dorsal regions of the skull. 



The 'primary carotid, capr, as was noted above, makes a curve to 

 the left after leaving the heart and then passes back to the median 

 plane, where it may be seen lying against the ventral side of the neck 

 muscles and dorsal to the oesophagus; in this place it gives off a 

 series of unpaired cervical arteries, fig. 4, ce, each of which almost 

 immediately divides into an anterior and a posterior branch that 

 carry blood to the cervical vertebrae. At the base of the skull, in 

 the region where it is united by the first connective, x, with the 

 collateralis colli, as described above, the primary carotid divides 

 into two similar branches, called by Bronn the common carotids, cm. 

 The distribution of these two vessels is symmetrical, so that only 

 one need be described. While the collateralis colli, as has been said, 

 carry blood chiefly to the tongue and lower jaw, the common carotids 

 supply the cranium and upper jaw. 



Soon after its formation by the division of the primary carotid, 

 the common carotid is joined, as noted above, with the collateralis 

 colli of that side by the connective x; since the common carotid 

 and its branches all lie dorsal to the collateralis colli and its branches, 

 the connectives x and x^ extend in a more or less dorso-ventral 

 direction. The two common carotids, almost completely surrounded 

 by bone, in passing cephalad sweep first lateralad then mediad, so 

 that they together form almost a complete ellipse, as seen in figure 

 4; there is, however, no apparent connection between them at the 

 anterior region Avhere they lie so close together. 



A short distance cephalad to the connective x the common carotid 

 is connected laterally, z, with a rather complicated plexus of vessels 

 lying at the base of the skull; it is through this plexus that the 

 common carotid is connected with the collateralis colli by the second 

 connective, x^ 



The short branch z quickly divides into three parts: (1) a small 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



anteriorly directed vessel which may be called the internal carotid, 

 ic, since it enters the skull through the most ventral of the three 

 foramina in the exoccipital, and probably supplies the brain, though its 

 further course could not be followed; (2) a somewhat larger posteriorly 

 directed artery, oc, going to the muscles at the occipital region of 

 the skull; (3) a short laterally directed stem, z^ The last-named 

 branch, z^, in turn, leads in three directions: (a) to the coUateralis 

 colli artery through the connective x^ ; (b) a short anteriorly directed 

 vessel, e, that passes into the skull, possibly to the ear, through the 

 large foramen that lies between the exoccipital and quadrate bones; 

 it gives off a small twig, q, to the muscles in the region of the jaw 

 articulation (quadrate) ; (c) the main stem of the branch z continues 

 laterad and cephalad as one of the chief arteries, z-, to the anterior 

 region of the skull, giving off a fairly wide branch, jm\ to the large 

 jaw muscle, and then two branches, o^ and o-, to the lateral surface 

 of the eyeball and socket; it then anastomoses, just cephalad and 

 laterad to the eye, with the forward continuation, cm^ of the cor- 

 responding main stem, cm, of the common carotid, already men- 

 tioned. The vessel cm', after almost meeting its fellow in the 

 middle line, passes cephalad and laterad across the ventral surface 

 of the eye to the union, above mentioned, with the lateral branch, z^; 

 at the posterior-mesial border of the eye it gives off a branch that 

 divides into two twigs, one, o^, for the posterior eye muscles, and 

 one, e\ to the region of the ear and the top of the skull. 



At the point of union of the branches cm^ and z~ a sort of simple 

 plexus may be formed from which two vessels, n, pass to the pos- 

 terior nasal region, and two vessels pass forward along the side of the 

 upper jaw. Of the latter two vessels one, which may be called the 

 inferior dental of the maxilla, dm, is very small and extends along 

 the maxilla to its very tip, at the base of the teeth and ventral to 

 the palatine bone; the other, which is larger and may be called 

 the superior dental of the maxilla, dm', extends cephalad along the 

 mesial side of the maxilla, dorsal to the palatine bone; it sends 

 numerous twigs into the maxillary bone among the roots of the 

 teeth. After passing nearly to the end of the snout, the superior 

 dental, dm', suddenly forms a loop towards the median line and 

 passes as a straight branch, n', directly caudad, near and parallel to 

 the median plane. The branch n' extends along the floor of the 

 nasal cavity and, after giving off twigs to this chamber, ends in a 

 network of vessels, o^, on the anterior surface of the eyeball and 

 socket. 




424 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



IMay, 



A pair of very small arteries, n-, may be seen in the nasal chamber 

 between and parallel to the branches, n^; they lie close to each side 

 of the nasal septum and supply the anterior nasal region. They 

 apparently arise, as shown by the broken lines, from the loop of the 

 superior dental artery, dm^, though this could not be definitely 

 determined. 



Lettering. 



Ao.s., Ao.d.,left and right aortic arches, 

 ab, abdominal artery. 

 ax, axillary vein. 



b, veins from body wall, 

 br, brachial vein. 



br^, brachial artery. 



c, coeliac artery, 

 ca, caudal artery, 

 capr, primary carotid. 



cc, collateralis colli artery. 



ce, cervical artery. 



cl, cloacal artery. 



cm, cm^ common carotid artery. 



cr, crural artery. 



cv, caudal vein. 



da, dorsal aorta. 



dm, inferior dental artery of maxilla. 



dm^, superior dental artery of maxilla. 



e, eS artery into skull, perhaps to ear. 

 ej, external jugular vein. 



ep, internal epigastric vein. 



f, femoral vein. f\ fibular artery, 

 fb, fibular vein. 



g, gastric vein of portal. 



gS gastric vein of epigastric. 



ga, gastric artery. 



ghi, gastro-hepatico-intestinal artery. 



h, hepatic portal vein. 



he\ he^, haemorrhoidal arteries. 



i, intestinal vein. 



ic, internal carotid arterj\ 



id, inferior dental vein. 



il, iliac vein. 



il', iliac artery. 



im, internal mammary vein. 



im', internal mammary artery. 



is, ischiadic vein. 



is\ ischiadic artery. 



j, internal jugular vein. 



jm, jmS artery to jaw muscle. 



1, lingual vein. 

 1^ lingual artery. 

 Ig, laryngeal artery, 

 lu, 1-7, lumbar arteries (numbers on 

 left side of figure) . 



m, mesenteric vein, 

 m^, mesenteric artery, 

 md, mandibular artery, 

 mg, artery to musk gland, 

 ms, muscular vein. 



n, artery to posterior nasal region. 

 n\ artery to anterior and mid-nasal 



region, 

 n-, artery to anterior nasal region. 



qI-o^, arteries to eye. 



oc, artery to muscles at base of skull. 



oe, (^esophageal arteries. 



pa, pelvic artery. 



pa\ second pelvic artery. 



pb, post brachial vein. 



pc, post cava. 



pd, right pulmonary artery. 



pi, pancreo-intestinal artery. 



pi, pi', pelvic vein. 



plu, pleural artery. 



ps, left pulmonary artery. 



q, artery to muscle at angle of jaw. 



ra, radial vein. 



raS radial artery. 



re, reproductive vein or artery. 



rp, renal portal vein. 



rt, rectal vein. 



rt', rectal artery. 



rv, renal vein. 



sc, sciatic artery (fig. 3). 



s, subclavian vein. 



sc, subscapular vein (fig. 2). 



sc\ subscapular artery. 



sc.d., sc.s., right and left subclavian 



arteries, 

 si, splono-intestinal artery, 

 sp, .splenic vein. 

 S.V., sinus venosus. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



425 



t, thoracic vein. 

 tS thoracic artery, 

 tb, tibial artery, 

 th, thyroid artery, 

 tr, tracheal vein. 



u, 1-4, urogenital arteries (numbers 



on right side of figure), 

 ul', ulnar artery. 



V, vertebral vein. 

 vS vertebral artery. 



vca, anterior vena cava, 

 vh, hepatic vein. 



vpd, vps, right and left pulmonary 

 veins. 



X, x^, connectives between coUateralis 

 colli and carotid. 



y, artery to shoulder and skin. 



z, z', Z-, branches of common carotid. 

 IS 2', 3', branches of ischiadiac artery . 



Explanation of Plate XIII. 



For lettering to all figures see above. 



Fig. 1. — The veins of the posterior region of the Florida alligator. The post- 

 caval system and its associated veins are shown in the main figure; the 

 hepatic portal system is shown in the smaller figure to the left. 



Fig. 2. — The veins of the anterior region of the Florida alligator. The veins 

 of the left foreleg are shown at A. 



Fig. 3. — The arteries of the posterior region of the Florida alligator. 



Fig. 4. — The arteries of the anterior region of the Florida alligator. The arteries 

 of the left foreleg shown at A. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE METHOD OF PROGRESSION IN TRUNCATELLA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND AMOS P. BROWN. 



Early in August of 1913, when one of us (Brown) was collecting 

 fossils along the shores of Willoughby Bay, Antigua, upon turning 

 over a piece of limestone a few feet above high-water mark, he came 

 across a colony of Truncatella bilabiata Pfr. They were very plentiful 

 under the slab, and those that were not disturbed by the lifting of 

 the stone were seen to be in motion. Others at once retracted the 

 body into the shell along with the operculum and assumed the 

 appearance of dead shells. On observing those that continued to 

 move it was at once noticed that they do not employ the same 

 method as the rapidly moving Colohoshjlus and Tuclora already 

 observed in Jamaica, nor that of the Cistula observed in Antigua, 

 but seem to adopt the method of the "measuring worm" in their 

 progression. A number of the shells with the living animal were 

 collected in a specimen bottle, and upon returning to the town of 

 St. John's they were kept under observation for some time. In 

 fact, upon returning to Philadelphia some weeks later, most of them 

 were still quite lively and moved about actively. It was from 

 these survivors that the figures were drawn. Before leaving St. 

 John's, notes upon the method of motion were made. These obser- 

 vations were repeated in Philadelphia. 



When disturbed or startled, the animal at once withdraws into the 

 shell and closes the opening by the operculum, which in fact is 

 drawn in beyond the lip. They then resemble pieces of stone or 

 fragments of dead leaves, and without close observation tl\ey would 

 escape notice. After they are left to themselves for a short time, 

 the animal protrudes the operculum, with the foot and proboscis, 

 which latter at once begins to feel about until it encounters some 

 firm substance, when the foot is fully protruded. The foot is a 

 squarish pad of about 1 scjuare millimeter in area. The proboscis 

 may be extended to 1^ mm. or more. It is waved to and fro until 

 it encounters the surface over which the animal moves, bending 

 downward at the same time and presenting in front view a certain 

 ludicrous resemblance to the head of a moose, which resemblance is 

 enhanced by the blunt expanded snout of the proboscis and by the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



tentacles, Avhich are in the position of the ears of the moose. The 

 foot, when fully protruded, is attached firmly to the surface moved 

 over; the proboscis is then raised and waved about again, and crawling 

 commences. The progression begins by a stretching forward of the, 

 proboscis, its tip is then applied to the surface moved over, and this 

 tip flattens out until nearly the size of the foot. If the proboscis 

 secures a firm attachment, the foot may now be released, and either 

 drawn up to the attached proboscis by sliding the edge of the foot 

 along the surface, or the entire animal may be supported upon the 

 proboscis and the foot raised clear of the surface and drawn up to 

 the proboscis, when its edge will rest on the surface moved over. 

 Perhaps more often the foot is raised anteriorly and slid forward 

 upon its posterior edge up to the attached proboscis; the position 

 assumed by the body of the animal being now the same as when 

 it is retracted into the shell. Starting from this position, the method 

 of progression may be described as follows: The square pad of 

 the foot is turned down anteriorly until it is firmly attached to the 

 surface moved over, simultaneously the attachment of the proboscis 

 is released and this is moved to find another attachment; as soon 

 as this is found the firm attachment of the proboscis is effected again ; 

 then the entire shell is hitched forward as the foot is lifted and 

 brought up in contact with the under side of the proboscis. In 

 case the foot is lifted clear of the surface moved over, the posterior 

 edge of the foot touches the surface first; if not lifted clear of the 

 ground, this edge is slid or dragged over the surface until the foot 

 comes up to the under side of the proboscis. Its posterior edge is 

 then applied to the ground, and, as the proboscis is loosened and 

 raised, the foot turns down until it is firmly in contact with the 

 ground, and the waving about of the proboscis and its final attach- 

 ment proceeds as before. 



The entire cycle of movements comprising the "step" is executed 

 in four seconds. or less, so that the animal will make 15 to 17 "steps" 

 in a minute when advancing steadily in one direction; and in these 

 15 to 17 "steps" it will have moved over 20 to 25 mm. of surface. 

 But it frequently happens that the proboscis does not secure a firm 

 attachment, and, when the step is attempted, the proboscis slides 

 back to the foot and the body is not advanced at all. The proboscis 

 is then raised and waved about, another "step" is attempted, and 

 generally succeeds. The animal may thus move forward in a 

 straight line or it may take quite an erratic course. The shell 

 sometimes rests upon the operculum, sometimes it is simply dragged 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



along the ground; and it is jerked forward when the foot is raised, 

 sometimes supported upon the operculum, but quite as often not. 

 The muscles controlling the movement of the foot and of the pro- 

 boscis can evidently act quite independently of each other. 



The external soft parts of T. hilabiata are very pale cartridge buff. 

 There is an ill-defined, flesh-tinted spot on the prol)Oscis, caused by 

 some colored body, perhaps the radula and its sack, shining through. 

 The proboscis has faint annular wrinkles. 



Compared with other land operculate snails we have seen alive, 

 Truncatella is remarkable for the small size of the foot and the 

 extraordinary development of the proboscis. 



The terrestrial prosobranch gastropods show a good deal of diver- 

 sity in dealing with the problem of progression on a dry surface. 

 The Cyclophoridce glide, like aquatic taenioglossate forms. The 

 Ericiidce move by the forward translation of vertical folds, alternating 

 on the two sides of the foot, while the Trimcatellidce step. The 

 gait of Pomatiopsis lapidaria is intermediate between the step and 

 the glide, and serves to show how the gait of Truncatella was probably 

 evolved. The proboscis and oral disk are used exactly as in Trunca- 

 tella, but the foot moves by gliding or sliding, first the fore part 

 moving forward to the proboscis, then the back part. 



Explanation of Plate XIV. 



Fig. 1. — Truncatella hilabiata. Proboscis and foot both in contact with ground, 

 the front part of foot being raised preparatory to forward movement. 



Fig. 2. — Near the end of the forward step of the foot, the shell trailing far behind. 



Fig. 3. — End of the forward step of proboscis, the shell trailing far in the rear. 

 This position is slightly anterior to that shown in fig. 1. 



Figs. 4, 5. — Segmentina obstructa geoscopus, n. subsp. ' 



Fig. 6. — Truncatella bilabiata. End of forward step of the foot, the shell pulled 

 forward. This position is slightly later than that shown in fig. 2. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



LIST OF LAND AND FRESH-WATER MOLLUSKS OF ANTIGUA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND AMOS P. BROWN. 



The material for this list was collected by one of us (A. P. B.) 

 during August, 1913. Several species were supplied by Mr. W. R. 

 Forrest, to whom we are also indebted for specimens from Barbuda, 

 Anguilla, and other islands. 



ERICIIDJE. 

 Cistula antiguensis Shuttl. 



Willoughby Bay; AVetherill's Bay. 



TRUNCATELLID^. 

 Truncatella bilabiata Pfr. 

 Willoughby Bay. 



AMNICOLID^. 



Potamopyrgus coronatus crystallinus (Pfr.) 



HELICINID^. 



Helicina crosbyi A. P. Brown. 



Pleistocene of St. George's Church and Hodge's Bay. It is 

 somewhat remarkable that Helicina has not been found living on 

 Antigua. See these Proceedings for 1913, p. 612, pi. xix, figs. 1, 3, 8. 



HELICID^. 

 Pleurodonte formosa (Fer.). 



Hills above Willoughby Bay, St. Philips Parish; also hills above 

 St. Mary's Rectory. Near Hodge's Point and near St. George's 

 Church (Pleistocene). (Also from Barbuda.) 



The only places where P. formosa was seen living were two, namely, 

 in the southeastern part of the island, in the hills above Willoughby 

 Bay, St. Philip's Parish ; and in the southwestern part of the island, 

 near St. Mary's Rectory. It appears to be arboreal in habit now, 

 though perhaps descending to the ground to deposit eggs. No doubt 

 it is found living among the hills all through the southwestern corner 

 of the island; this portion is still fairly well covered with woods and 

 affords good cover. While found fossil in the northern and north- 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



eastern portions, as at Hodge's Bay on the north shore and at St. 

 George's Church along the eastern shore, the probability is that the 

 species is extinct in this portion of the island, as all the woods have 

 been cut, thus destroying the natural cover. The northwestern por- 

 tion of the island is wooded in the vicinity of Wetherill's Bay, but 

 the woods are probably only of recent growth and no recent specimens 

 of this species were found there. In the southwestern portion, in 

 St. Mary's Parish, living specimens are. found mainly on the 

 "loblolly" trees {Pisonia suhcaudata) ; although the woods are suf- 

 ciently dense to afford moist conditions in many places. In the less 

 wooded (and hence arid) parts of St. Mary's the specimens are also 

 found living in the trees. In the region of Willoughby Bay, Parish 

 of St. Philip, the conditions are still more arid, and living specimens 

 were seen only on the trees. The "wild pines" {Bromeliacece) 

 seem to be the places where the living mollusks are most certainly 

 to be met with. These epiphytes, containing as they do in the 

 axils of their leaves the only water commonly to be found on these 

 dry hills, are evidently resorted to by the mollusks for their supply 

 of moisture; and it is the presence of these "wild pines" with their 

 constant supply of moisture that has tempted the P. formosa to 

 acquire an arboreal habit and pass from ground forms to a more 

 or less arboreal life. 



Thysanophora subaquila (Shuttl.). 



Wetherill's Bay. 



BULIMULID^. 



Bulimulus guadalupensis (Brug.). 



Wetherill's Bay; Marble Hill, 2 miles north of St. John's; Mont- 

 pelier, St. Philip. 



Drymaeus elongatus (Bolt.). 



St. George's Church. (Also Anguilla and Barbuda.) 



AOHATINID^. 

 Subulina octona (Brug.). 



Public Cemetery, St. John's; Wetherill's and Willoughby Bays; 

 Marble Hill. 

 Opeas micra (Orb.). 



Wetherill's Hill; Marble Hill. 

 Opeas gracile (Hiitt.). 



Marble Hill. 



Opeas beckianum (Pfr.). 



Antigua, special locality not noted. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



SUCOINEID^. 

 Succinea barbadensis Guild. 



Cemetery, St. John's; INIarble Hill; also a Pleistocene fossil. 



Pupoides marginatus (Say). 

 Bifidaria servilis (Gld.). 



PUPILLID^. 



AURICULID^. 



PLANORBIDuE. 



Melampus coffea (L.). 

 Tralia pusilla (Gmel.). 



Planorbis guadalupensis Sowb. 



St. Philip. 



Planorbis lucidus Pfr. 



Antigua. 

 Planorbis cultratus Orb. 



Antigua. 

 Segmentina obstructa geoscopus n. subsp. PI. XIV, figs. 4, 5. 



The shell is olive-buff, very glossy, having fine growth-lines and 

 very faint spirals. Last whorl very deeply descending at the end, 

 bringing the aperture nearly to the horizontal plane. Teeth visible 

 in the mouth, one-fourth to one-third of a whorl from the aperture. 

 ]\Iajor parietal lamella sigmoid. Alt. 2.1, diam. 6.7 mm. 



Type and cotypes 109,160 A. N. S. P. 



PHYSID^. 



Pbysa rivalis (M. and R.). 



St. Philips. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS MURIS IN THE INTESTINAL CELLS OF 



THE MOUSE. 



(Preliminary Note.) 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



As long ago as 1903, Minchin (1903, p. 308), speaking of the 

 Sarcosporidia, observes that "there is still much to be made out about 

 these interesting parasites, and the field is one ripe for investigation." 



Since that time it cannot be said that our knowledge of the group 

 has been materially increased. A number of papers on the Sarco- 

 .sporidia have indeed been published, but these have been concerned 

 with the character of the spores and cysts rather than with any 

 attempts to elucidate the life history of this group of the Protozoa. 

 The exception is a contribution by Erdmann (1910, p. 377), the 

 results of which are summed up and commented upon by Minchin 

 (1912, pp. 421, 422) as follows: 



"According to Erdmann, the spore germinates in the intestine of 

 the new host, and the first act in the process is the liberation from 

 the spore of its toxin, sarcocystine, which causes the adjacent epithe- 

 lium of the intestine to be thrown off. At the same time an amoebula 

 is set free from the spore; and, owing to the intestine being denuded 

 of its lining epithelium, the amoebula is able to penetrate into the 

 lymph-spaces of the submucous coat and establish itself there. 

 Before this happens, however, the metachromatinic grains of the 

 spore disappear, and it is suggested that this disappearance is related 

 to the secretion of the sarcocystine, and that the toxin is contained 

 in the metachromatinic grains. If, however, a polar capsule be 

 discharged during the germination of the spore, as in other Cnido- 

 sporidia, it might well be that the toxin is contained in the polar 

 capsule and is set free by its discharge, like the poison in the neniato- 

 cysts of the Ccelentera. However that may be, it would appear as 

 if the sarcocystine were a weapon, as it were, the function of which 

 is to facilitate the invasion of the germ, the amcebula, by destroying 

 the lining epithelium of the gut. 



The liberation of the amoebula from the spore initiates the first 

 period of the development, which is passed in the lymph-spaces of 

 the intestine, and which lasts, according to Erdmann, some twenty- 

 eight to thirty days. Analogy with other Neosi)oridia would lead 

 us to identify this with the planont-phase, initiated, possibly, by 

 sexual processes between different aracebuUe and subsequent active 

 multiplication. The second period of the development begins with 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



the penetration of the amcebula into a muscle-fiber, in which the 

 parasite grows into a Miescher's tube and forms spores." 



The present writer has for some time been in possession of material 

 which illustrates the earlier stages of the cycle of Sarcocystis muris 

 in the mouse, but sufficient time has not been available completely 

 to work out this cycle in all of its details. Since,ihowever, Erdmann's 

 conclusions are largely erroneous, and since, moreover, they are 

 becoming incorporated into general works on the Protozoa, it has 

 been considered desirable to publish a brief notice giving the essen- 

 tial facts discovered, which are of considerable theoretical interest. 

 A short note bearing on this matter w^as published in Science (1913, 

 n. s., V. 37, p. 498) last year, but this did not touch upon the more 

 important of the discoveries made'. 



As stated in the note which appeared in Science, the spore when 

 in the lumen of the intestine of the mouse does not set free an amoe- 

 bula, since it is itself a naked mass of protoplasm. What actually 

 takes place is that the spore, when in the intestine of the mouse, 

 becomes endowed with the ability to display very energetic twisting 

 and boring movements, by virtue of which it forces its way into a 

 cylinder cell of the intestinal epithelium, and there comes to rest. 

 This takes place within 2h hours after the infecting feed, and possibly 

 much earlier. 



The typical spore of Sarcocystis niuris, which has been figured a 

 number of times in the literature, is a banana-shaped organism about 

 12/^ long. Spores of this sort are found both free in the lumen and in 

 the cylinder cells in mice killed and examined at appropriate periods 

 after the inoculative feed. Besides these, however, others occur, such 

 as are shown in Plate XV, figs. 1 and 2. These are oval bodies, 

 generally about half as long as the typical spore. The cytoplasm 

 has a considerable affinity for chromatin stains and consists of a 

 dense spongioplasm. The nucleus is vesicular and more conspicuous 

 than it is in the typical spores. It apparently always contains either 

 a feebly developed nuclear net (fig. 3) or a karyosome or both, but 

 these last-named structures require heavy staining for their demon- 

 stration, and in moderately or lightly stained material the appearance 

 is as shown in figs. 1 and 2. 



Figures 2 and 3 represent conditions found in a mouse killed about 

 2\ hours after feeding. Since, however, the spores in the lumen of 

 the intestine of this mouse are in precisely the same state as those 

 illustrated in fig. 2, the presumption is that these latter have only 

 been in the cells a very short time. Moreover, the intracellular 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj', 



parasites both in 2j- and 3j-hour stages have, at least in a certain 

 proportion of cases, undergone conspicuous changes. These changes 

 consist in a gradual diminution of the quantity of cytoplasm, which 

 seems either largely or completely to disappear, while con- 

 commitantly there is an increase in size and complexity of the 

 nucleus. There is in this way produced a parasite such as is shown 

 in fig. 4, which, so far as both its history and appearance go, is 

 only the nucleus of the original spore. The stage here represented 

 is especially characteristic of the period about six hours after feeding. 

 It may, however, be stated that it is not certain that all of the 

 parasites which invade the cells suffer this loss of the cytoplasm. 



In mice killed nine hours after feeding, this same stage (as shown 

 in fig. 4) may also be found, but it is no longer abundant. This 

 period in the evolution of the parasite, that is, nine hours after 

 feeding, is characterized by a great variety of conditions, of which 

 the majority are difficult to interpret. But by this time it has 

 become evident that the parasites are separating into two categories, 

 which become more and more sharply differentiated as time passes, 

 and which reach their full culmination at the end of 18 hours. The 

 end products of these two lines of evolution are shown in figs. 

 9 and 11, and the interpretation placed upon them is that they are 

 respectively males and females. 



The male elements appear to arise from forms like that shown in 

 fig. 4. These, which apparently consist of only the nucleus of 

 the original spore, show a karyosome, and a nuclear net which here 

 and there supports little aggregates of chromatin. Later stages 

 (fig. 5) show a greater quantity of chromatin, but the karyosome has 

 disappeared. Figure 5 is to be taken merely as representing one of 

 a number of forms which, while differing greatly in detail, agree in 

 that each possesses a nuclear net which supports a quantity of 

 chromatin. In some cases the chromatin occurs in a much coarser 

 form than that shown in fig. 5, whereas in others it is present in 

 ven>^ minute granules distributed throughout the entire extent of a 

 finely meshed net. 



Eventually, however, a stage is reached such as is shown in fig. 

 7. This consists of an oval l)ody with a stringy matrix and a row of 

 granular aggregates arranged around the periphery. These granular 

 aggregates become more and more compact until finally they come 

 to consist of solid, round balls of deeply staining chromatin (fig. 8). 

 These Ijalls, in their turn, elongate and transform themselves into 

 bodies such as are shown in fig. 9, which can scarcely be other 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



than microgametes. As seen in sectioned material, the microga- 

 metes are from 2 to 2.5 microns long, with both ends pointed, but one 

 noticeably broader than the other. They are characterized by an 

 intense affinity for chromatin stains. Stages such as these may 

 occur as early as nine hours, but it is not until later that they become 

 abundant. They reach their full development at the end of 18 

 hours, and, so far as my studies have yet gone, are no longer present 

 at the end of 24 hours. 



It is only in their later developmental phases that the females can 

 be picked out with any certainty. They are illustrated in figs. 

 10 and 11, which show oval elements containing a vesicle in which 

 is a chromatin body. In the 18-hour stage all of the parasites 

 present, with a certain exception to be noted below, are either in the 

 condition shown in figs. 7, 8, and 9, or that shown in figs. .10 

 and 11. As was stated above, however, the parasites taken to be 

 early male stages were apparently only nuclei, since if any cytoplasm 

 were present it was reduced to an extremely fine peripheral film. 

 This conclusion was based not only upon the history of these bodies, 

 but also upon their appearance. On the other hand, the bodies 

 shown in figs, 10 and 11 have all the appearance of complete cells, 

 with a considerable bulk of cytoplasm. It may then be that from 

 the very outset some of the parasites retain a part or the whole of 

 their cytoplasm, these being destined to produce the macrogametes. 

 This surmise receives a certain amount of support from what is seen 

 in fig. 6. This parasite appears to have retained at least the 

 greater part of its cytoplasm. But we have here the representative 

 of a condition found nine hours after feeding, whereas the loss of 

 cytoplasm on the part of those parasites which suffer this depriva- 

 tion may be completed as early as 2J to 3 hours. It may then be 

 suggested that fig. 6 represents an early female stage, and if this 

 be so it would follow that the females retain most if not all of their 

 cytoplasm. It may also be noted that in the periods from 9 to 18 

 hours parasites which are clearly females show phenomena which 

 suggest maturation. 



Finally, in the 18-hour period there is to be found the condition 

 illustrated in fig. 12. This shows a parasite in all respects like 

 figs. 10 and 11 except for the presence in the cytoplasm of a 

 sharply staining chromatin body. It does not seem unreasonable 

 to look upon this as a microgamete which has fertilized the 

 macrogamete. 



29 




436 proceedings of the academy of [may, 



Bibliography, 



Erdmann, Rh. 1910. Die Entwicklung der Sarcocystis muris in der Musku- 



latur. [Read 8. Nov.] < Sitzungsb. d. Gesellsch. naturf . Fr. zu Bed. 



(9), Nov., pp. 377-387, figs. A-E, Pis. 18, 19, figs. 1-14. 

 MiNCHiN, Edward Alfred. 1903. Protozoa. TheSporozoa. (/n ; A treatise 



on zoology, edited by E. Ray Lankester. 8°. London. Part 1, fasc. 2, 



pp. 150-360, figs. 1-127.) 

 1912. An introduction to the study of the Protozoa, with special reference 



to the parasitic forms, xi + 517 pp., 194 figs. 8°. London. 



Explanation of Plate XV. 



The figures were in all cases made by the author from camera outlines, and 

 later copied in ink by Mr. Haines, artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry. 

 The optical system consisted of a 2-mm. apochromatic objective and No. 18 

 compensating eyepiece, yielding a magnification of about 3,530 diameters. In 

 reproduction the drawings have been reduced in the ratio of 3 to 2, and hence 

 are about 2,350 times larger than the actual object. 



Fig. 1. — Shortened spore free in the lumen of the intestine. Two to two and 



one-half hour period. Giemsa stain. 

 Fig. 2. — Spores in the cylinder cells of the host. Two to two and one-half hour 



period. Giemsa stain. 

 Fig. 3. — Spore in a cylinder cell of the host. Two to two and one-half hour 



period. Wright's stain. 

 Fig. 4. — Form from which the males are supposed to arise. Taken from a 



nine-hour period. Delafield's hsematoxylin and eosin. 

 Fig. 5. — Supposed early male stage. Nine-hour period. Iron hsematoxylin 



and acid fuchsin. 

 Fig. 6. — Supposed early female stage. Nine-hour period. Iron hsematoxylin 



and acid fuchsin. 

 Fig. 7. — Microgametocyte with granular nuclei. Eighteen-hour period. 



Wright's stain. 

 Fig. 8. — Microgametocyte with solid nuclei. Taken from a mouse killed nine 



hours after feeding, in which this stage is very rare. Iron hiematoxylin 



and acid fuchsin. 

 Fig. 9. — Microgametocyte in which the microgametes are fully ripe. Eighteen- 

 hour period. Wright's stain. 

 Fig. 10. — Macrogamete. Seventeen-hour period. Iron ha?matoxylin and acid 



fuchsin. Stages such as this are more commonly found in the subepithelial 



spaces than in the cells themselves. 

 Fig. 11. — Macrogamete. Eighteen-hour period. Wright's stain. 

 Fig. 12. — Supposed fertilization. Eighteen-hour period. W^right's stain. Para- 

 sites showing the supposed fertilization were not found in the cells themselves, 



but in the spaces beneath the epithelium. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



NOTICE OF A RARE ZIPHIOID WHALE, MESOPLODON DENSIROSTRIS, ON THE 



NEW JERSEY COAST. 



BY ROY CHAPMAN ANDREWS. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has been for- 

 tunate in securing the skeleton of a rare Beaked whale, Alesoplodon 

 densirostris (Blainville), taken at Corson's Inlet, N. J., June 18, 

 1913, by Henry W. Fowler and Wm. J. Fox. This specimen 

 makes possible the first positive identification of this animal 

 on the American coast and, since it has hitherto been known only 

 from the seas about Australia and the Indian Ocean, gives important 

 evidence as to the extensive range of the species. 



In 1906, Dr. Glover M. Allen,^ reported upon a young female 

 Beaked whale found dead on the coast at Annisquam, Mass., in 

 August, 1898, the skeleton of which was secured for the Boston 

 Society of Natural History by Prof. Alpheus Hyatt. Dr. Allen 

 referred this specimen to Mesoplodon bidens (Sowerby) and gave a 

 description of the skeleton and external anatomy so far as the latter 

 was known. Some years later Dr. F. W. True- restudied the speci- 

 men, the skull of which is somewhat injured, and decided that it 

 probably represented Mesoplodon densirostris (Blainville). In con- 

 cluding his discussion of this specimen, Dr. True remarks: 

 "Although with such scant material it is not possible to determine 

 satisfactorily the identity of this third species of Mesoplodon in the 

 North Atlantic, represented by the Annisquam specimen, I feel 

 convinced that that specimen does not belong to M. bidens and that 

 there is a strong probability that it belongs to M. densirostris. It is 

 true that the latter species has been found hitherto only in the 

 Indian Ocean and about Australia, but we know so little about the 

 distribution of the ziphioid whales that, in my opinion, that circum- 

 stance by itself should not be given very great weight." (I.e., 



p. 11). 



A comparison of the New Jersey whale with the beautiful figures 

 of the skull of M. densirostris given by Van Beneden and Gervais 



1 Am. Naturalist, Vol. 40, 1906, pp. 357-367. 



- An Account of the Beaked Whales of the Family Ziphiidse in the Collection 

 of the United States National Museum. U. S. Nat. Mus., Bull. 73, 1910, pp. 9-11. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



in the Osteographie des Cetaces, Plate XXV, demonstrates that it 

 is certainly referable to that species. It also shows the distinctive 

 characters of the rostrum and other parts of the skull present in the 

 Massachusetts skeleton and leaves little doubt that Dr. True's 

 identification of the latter with M. densirostris is correct. The 

 New Jersey specimen thus definitely introduces Mesoplodon densi- 

 rostris into the North American fauna. 



I have to thank Mr. Henry W. Fowler for the privilege of examining 

 and reporting upon this specimen and to congratulate the Academy 

 upon its acquisition. 



It is desirable to give a brief description of the exterior and skeleton 

 as well as figures of certain bones since the osteology of the species, 

 other than the skull, is rather imperfectly known. 



Mr. Fowler has furnished the following notes upon the external 

 characters of the specimen: "In color the skin was mostly uniform 

 blackish, smooth and shining. About the head and jaws, below," 

 and irregularly along the ventral surface medianly, were livid pale 

 areas sometimes with very faint bluish tints. Afterward various 

 parts of the body became somewhat reddish in tint due to decom- 

 position going on. The flukes of the tail and the dorsal and pec- 

 toral fins were entirely black. 



"This whale had been dead but a very short time when discovered, 

 and had evidently been struck with some object, possibly a harpoon, 

 on the side of the neck. 



" It has also bled a little at the mouth as may be seen from the 

 photograph (this wrongly suggesting the corner of the mouth). 

 The photograph does not give a good idea of the greatly elevated 



gums of the lower jaw No barnacles or parasites of any 



kind were found in, or on, this specimen. The stomach was full 

 of undetermined organic material. The whale was 14 feet 5 inches 

 long and 4 feet in circumference." 



The skeleton shows that .the individual from which it was taken, 

 although not old, was fully adult, for the mesorostral cartilage is 

 thoroughly ossified and all the epiphyses are firmly ankylosed to the 

 vertebral bodies. 



The skulls of the Massachusetts and New Jersey specimens agree 

 closely in all important particulars, the only noticeable difference 

 being in the absence in the former of the maxillary tubercle between 

 the anteorbital notch and the base of the rostrum. This is sup- 

 posedly a character of age, but is even less developed in the adult 

 specimen figured in the Osteographie des Cetaces. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



In both the Massachusetts and New Jersey skulls the large foramina 

 in the maxillae are almost opposite those in the premaxillae, while 

 in the Osteographie figure the former are considerably in advance 

 of the latter. 



The peculiar characters of the skull which distinguish M. densi- 

 rostris are the deep rostrum and the depth and shape of the rostral 

 portion of the premaxillae; the large, forwardly directed foramina 

 in the maxillae which connect with the grooves on either side of the 

 rostrum; the appearance of the malar in the bottoms of the anteor- 

 bital notches; the large palatines which entirely surround the 

 pterygoids; the trifoliate foramen magnum and the mandible, each 

 ramus of which is greatly swollen in the region of the single triangular 

 tooth. 



The skeleton has the following vertebral formula: 



C D L Ca 



7 10 11 16 = 44 



Certainly one, and possibly two, of the terminal caudal vertebrae are 

 missing, so that the correct formula should probably be: 



C D L Ca 



7 10 11 18 = 46 



A skeleton of this species from the island of Lord Howe, Australia, 

 has the following formula, according to Van Beneden and Gervais: 



C D L Ca 



7 10 11 17 = 45 



This whale measured 15 feet 9 inches in length, while the New Jersey 

 specimen was 14 feet 5 inches long. 



Allen gives the number of vertebrae in the Massachusetts skeleton 

 as 45, but says it has only nine pairs of ribs, while both others have 

 ten pairs. It is probable that the terminal pair in Allen's specimen 

 may have been lost, as Cetacean skeletons are so frequently deficient 

 in this respect. 



The first three cervical vertebrae of the New Jersey whale are 

 solidly ankylosed, but the remaining four are free. 



The dorsal and lumbar vertebrae have the thigh, thin spines and 

 short transverse processes so characteristic of the Ziphioid whales. 



Nine chevrons are present, but the first and penultimate members 

 of the series seem to be lacking, and I believe that eleven is the normal 

 number. 



There are ten pairs of ribs, the first seven on each side articulating 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



by means of a neck and head and the posterior three having only 

 the tubercles; the terminal rib is very slender. 



The sternum consists of four segments showing no tendency, as 

 yet, toward ankylosis. The most anterior is concave above with 

 a well-defined median carina below; the three remaining segments 

 are flat with a median notch in both the anterior and posterior 

 borders. 



The sternum agrees well with that of the Massachusetts specimen 

 figured by Allen except that the first segment of the New Jersey 

 sternum is a little differently shaped and is much more deeply notched 

 than in the former. This difference has no significance. 



The scapula is widely fan-shaped, has a long, thin acromion curved 

 inward and slightly upward, and a straight narrow coracoid directed 

 somewhat upward and almost as long as the acromion. 



The scapula resembles that of Mesoplodon bidens figured in the 

 OsUographie des Cetaces, PI. XXII, fig. 2. 



Several of the phalanges from each manus have been lost and, 

 consequently, the correct formula cannot be given. 



Explanation of Plates XVI, XVII, and XVIII. 



Plate XVI. — Mesoplodon densirostris; drawing from nature by Mr. Henry W. 

 Fowler. 



Plate XVII. — Fig. 1. — Superior view of skull of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 2. — Inferior view of skull of M. deyisirostris. 

 Fig. 3. — Lateral view of skull of M. densirostris. 



*e* 



Plate XVIII. — Fig. 1. — Sternum of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 2. — Scapula of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 3. — First lumbar vertebra of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 4. — First three cervical vertebra; of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 5. — First caudal vertebra of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 6. — First dorsal vertebra of M. densirostris. 

 Fig. 7. — Right ramus of mandible of M. densirostris. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 441 



DATA ON THE ORTHOPTERAN FAUNISTICS OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 



AND SOUTHERN NEW JERSEY. 



BY HENRY FOX. 



In the period from 1908 to 1912, inclusive, I collected Orthoptera 

 extensively in various parts of the area here under consideration, 

 spending as much time in the field as I could spare from other duties. 

 During that time I accumulated data on the regional and habitat 

 distribution of various species of Acrididce and Locustidce, which, 

 although admittedly incomplete, suggest at least the general lines 

 along which the study of such problems may ultimately be developed. 

 In this study I endeavored to ascertain, in the first place, the exact 

 areal distribution of each species and, secondly, the kind of environ- 

 ment in which it normally or prevailingly occurs. 



The present paper is based upon the results of my own field obser- 

 vations, but to make it as complete as possible I have freely availed 

 myself of all available sources of information and have frequently 

 included data gathered by others, due acknowledgment of which 

 I have endeavored to make in every case. In this connection I have 

 found the distributional data given in the new N. J. State Report on 

 insects^ especially valuable. I am also under obligations to Mr. 

 James A. G. Rehn and Mr. Morgan Hebard for generously placing 

 their local collections and those of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia at my disposal and for permission to use the data 

 so obtained. 



Witmer Stone, in his splendid work on the plants of southern 

 New Jersey,^ remarks on the incongruity of finding a southern flora 

 and fauna by going eastward, as may be done in the vicinity of 

 Philadelphia. The same incongruity is exemplified by the Orthop- 

 tera which in southern New Jersey are predominantly of austral 

 aspect, whereas those of eastern Pennsylvania are mostly of transition 

 types. 



As is well known, the region included in the present study includes 



1 Annual Report of the New Jersey State Museum, including a Report of the 

 Insects of New Jersey, 1909, pp. 177-190. 



- Annual Report of the New Jersey State Museum, including a Report of 

 the Plants of Southern New Jersej', with Especial Reference to the Flora of the 

 Pme Barrens, 1910. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



parts of two great physiographic provinces, the Piedmont Plateau 

 and the Coastal Plain. These correspond, as Stone has clearly 

 shown in the work already cited, respectively to the Transition and 

 Upper Austral biotic zones of Merriam. The dividing line between 

 two is accordingly the "fall-line" which marks the line along which 

 the hard rocks of the Piedmont Plateau meet the soft and incoherent 

 deposits of the Coastal Plain. 



Without a more detailed knowledge than we actually possess of 

 the life history and of the developmental and growth requirements 

 of Orthoptera, it is impossible at present to give a full causal explana- 

 tion of the observed differences between the Orthopteran faunas of 

 the Piedmont Plateau and Coastal Plain. Merriam regards tem- 

 perature as the controlling factor, and he is probably right if by 

 temperature he means the temperature of the medium in which the 

 organism undergoes its development and growth, and this in a given 

 locality might be very different in one kind of medium from what it 

 is in a different kind, a difference which would not be shown by a 

 record of the atmospheric temperature alone. Some of the Coastal 

 Plain grasshoppers, which in this region are entirely absent from the 

 Piedmont Plateau, exist in much higher latitudes, as in Massachu- 

 setts or Ontario, where the sum of the positive atmospheric tem- 

 peratures for the season of growth and reproduction is much less 

 than in our local Piedmont, l^ut they doubtless exist there under 

 conditions in which they receive a greater amount of heat at the 

 critical time than they would under entirely different conditions in 

 a region which, like our Piedmont, is warmer so far as general atmos- 

 pheric temperatures are concerned. 



Although temperature is probably the fundamental distributional 

 factor, there are good reasons for questioning if it is the only factor. 

 The environment of any organism or group of organisms is a complex 

 of factors, each of which may act directly on the organism and influence 

 its activities. Shelford, for example, has shown that in the case of 

 certain species of tiger-beetles^ the distribution depends upon the 

 simultaneous presence of a number of conditions, all of which must 

 be fulfilled if the species is to maintain itself. 



In our region the great contrast between the biotas of the Piedmont 

 and Coastal Plain provinces is at least empirically — and doubtless 

 in some way causally — -correlated with well-marked differences in 

 the prevailing types of soil. In the Piedmont the soils are residual, 



« Shelford, V. E., Physiological Animal Geography, Jour, of Morph., Vol. 22, 

 1911, pp. 551-618. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



resulting from the decomposition and disintegration of the underlying 

 rocks. They are of a loamy texture containing relatively high pro- 

 portions of clay and silt and also holding in most instances a con- 

 siderable amount of available plant food. The Coastal Plain soils, 

 with some exceptions, represent detrital materials originally trans- 

 ported by water and floating ice from the front of the great continental 

 glacier. They consist almost exclusively of coarse gravels and sands 

 which contain extremely low amounts of clay or silt and are very 

 deficient in available plant foods. 



The differences in biota are also correlated with differences in 

 topography. The Piedmont Plateau is a region of considerable 

 relief and consequently of good drainage, so that marshy areas 

 constitute an insignificant feature of the region. The Coastal 

 Plain, with the exception of a portion along its western edge, is a 

 region of extremely low relief and poor drainage, so that marshes 

 form a very prominent feature of the region. 



Faunal Subdivisions. — The map accompanying Smith's report 

 on insects in the 1909 report of the New Jersey State Museum 

 subdivides the State into six faunal districts. This map was largely 

 based upon the results of Stone's studies on the distribution of 

 plants, although no acknowledgment of this fact is made in the text. 

 In the map accompanying Stone's report on plants already cited 

 the southern or Coastal Plain portion of the State is subdivided into 

 five districts. Stone does not consider the region north of the 

 fall-line in detail, but simply refers to it as the Northern District 

 without any attempt at further subdivision. In Smith's report 

 the same region is subdivided into three districts, i.e., the Appalachian, 

 the Highlands, and the Piedmont Plateau. All three of these sub- 

 divisions are represented in Pennsylvania. 



The subdivisions of the Coastal Plain recognized by Stone are 

 (a) the Middle District; (6) the Pine Barrens; (c) the Coastal Strip, 

 including the coast islands and a narrow strip of mainland adjoining 

 the salt marshes; {d) the Cape May Peninsula south of the Great 

 Cedar Swamp, and (e) the Maritime District, embracing the salt 

 marshes. 



In the case of the Orthoptera, these same subdivisions can be 

 readily, recognized, but to my mind thej^ are not all of equal f aunistic 

 value. As major or primarj^ faunal centres I would class the Appa- 

 lachian, Piedmont, Pine Barren, and Coastal districts, because each 

 of these is definitely characterized by a number of species which are 

 either entirely absent or relatively infrequent in the other districts. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The remaining subdivisions I am disposed to consider as tension 

 zones in which there is more or less interminghng, overlapping, or 

 interdigitation of the faunas from the surrounding primary districts. 

 The faunistic status of the Highlands is still somewhat doubtful, 

 owing to the lack of sufficient data, but the data at hand indicate 

 that its only distinctive feature is the overlapping of Piedmont and 

 Appalachian types. The Middle District does not have a single 

 distinctive species of Orthoptera,^ but represents a zone in which 

 there is an intermingling of characteristic Piedmont, Pine Barren, 

 and Coastal types. The Cape May District has some claim to be 

 regarded as a primary district, since two or three Orthoptera have 

 been taken there which have not as yet been recorded elsewhere, but 

 which future collecting may possibly prove to extend into the Middle 

 and Coastal Districts. The Maritime District is very clearly charac- 

 terized from all the other districts, but I think it preferable to regard 

 it as an ecological subdivision of the Coastal District rather than a 

 separate faunistic region. 



I. The Appalachian District. 



The Appalachian District includes the region between the Blue 

 Ridge and the Alleghany escarpment, thus taking in all of central 

 and northeastern Pennsylvania and extreme northwestern New 

 Jersey. Topographically, the greater part of the region consists, as 

 is well known, of a succession of roughly parallel ridges and inter- 

 vening valleys. In northeastern Pennsylvania these merge into a 

 high plateau, the Pocono Plateau. The underlying rocks are all 

 thoroughly indurated sedimentaries, which typically are charac- 

 terized by steep dips and sharp folds, but in the Pocono Plateau 

 Region are nearly horizontal or only gently folded. The soils for the 

 most part are residual, and are essentially similar to those of the 

 Piedmont. There is much bare rock on the higher ridges and 

 steeper slopes. In the Pocono Region the soils are largely of glacial 

 origin. 



I have had no direct personal experience with the Orthopteran 

 fauna of this district and consequently am dependent for information 

 regarding its character upon the reports of other collectors. The 

 chief sources of information are the records included in the New 

 Jersey list and the collection of the Academj^ of Natural Sciences, 

 the latter including collections of Stewardson Brown and Witmer 



* The one exception to this statement, Melanoplus differentialis, represents 

 an introduction from the West. 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



445 



Stone from Wyoming and Sullivan Counties; of Bayard Long from 

 Monroe, Sullivan, Pike, and Wayne Counties; of Rehn from Lehigh 

 Gap, and the official Pennsylvania State Collection, the latter including 

 material from the vicinity of Harrisburg and central Pennsylvania. 

 The Academy collection also includes individual specimens collected 

 by C. W. Johnson, 0. Behr, W. S. Huntington, and Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

 From these sources we have tangible evidence of the occurrence of 

 the following species of Orthoptera in northeastern Pennsylvania, 

 including under this term the counties of Lehigh, Carbon, Wyoming, 

 Sullivan, Monroe, Wayne, and Pike. 



OrphulleUa speciosa 

 Chloealtis conspersa 

 Stenobothrus curtipennis 

 Mecostethus lineatus 

 Arphia xanthoptera 

 Chortoph a ga virid ifasciata 

 Encoptolophus sordidus 

 Camnula pellucida 

 Hippiscus tuherculatus 

 Spharagemon saxatile 



Spharagemon holli 

 Trimerotropis citrina 

 Circotettix verrucidahis 

 Podisma glacialis variegata 

 Melanoplus fasciatus 

 " atlanis 



' ' minor 

 ' ' femoratus 

 " pundulatus 

 Scudderia furcata 



From the more central portion of Pennsylvania we have records of 

 the following: 



Dichroniorpha viridis 

 Orphulella speciosa 

 Arphia sulphur ea 



" xanthoptera 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata 

 Encoptolophus sordidus 

 Hippiscus tuherculatus 

 Spharagemon holli 

 Trimerotropis citrina 

 Melanoplus femur-ruhrwn 

 Scudderia texensis 



Scudderia curvicauda 

 " furcata 



Amblycorypha ohlongi folia 

 " rotundifolia 



Conocephalus triops 

 " ensiger 



Xiphidium fasciatum 

 " hrevipenne 

 " nemorale 



Atlanticus dorsalis 



Orchelimum vulgare 



The New Jersey list includes the following from the Appalachian 



portion of the State: 



Dichroniorpha viridis^ 

 Chloealtis conspersa 

 Stenohothrus curtipennis^ 

 Arphia sulphur ea^ 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata^ 

 Hippiscus tuherculatus 

 Dissosteira Carolina^ 



Spharagemon holli^ 



Circotettix verruculatus 



Melanoplus atlanis^ 



" femur-ruhrum^ 

 " luridus^ 



" femoratus 



Orchelimum vulgare 



^ No locality records, but species stated to occur throughout the State and 

 doubtless occurs in the district under consideration. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The above lists are doubtless individually incomplete. On the 

 whole, collections made in the Appalachian District are essentially 

 Piedmont in character with the addition of some prevailingly northern 

 species which are absent or rare in the Piedmont. It is probable at 

 least from the data at hand that the following species occur regularly 

 throughout the entire local Appalachian District: Orphulella 

 speciosa, Chloealtis conspersa, Stenohothrus curtipennis, Arphia 

 sulphurea, A. xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Encoptolophus 

 sordidus, Hippiscus tuberculatus, Dissosteira Carolina, Spharagemon 

 bolli, S. saxatile, Melanoplus fasciatus, M. atlanis, M. fernur-nibrum, 

 M. minor, M. femoratus, Scudderia curvicauda, S. furcata, Amhly- 

 corypha oblongifolia, A. rotundifolia, Conocephalus triops, C. ensiger, 

 Orchelimum vulgare, Xiphidium fasciatum, X. hrevipenne, X. nemorale, 

 and Atlanticus dorsalis. 



The following have so far been recorded only for the more northern 

 section of the local Appalachian District, to which it is possible that 

 they may be restricted: Mecostethus lineatus, Camnula pellucida, 

 Circotettix verruculatus, Podisma glacialis variegata, Melanoplus 

 mancus,^ M. pundidatus, and Scudderia pistillata.^ 



It is rather surprising that we have no local records of Melanoplus 

 luridus in the Appalachian District, this being a form which is 

 prevailingly northern in distribution and which has been recorded 

 from the mountains of Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia. 



Another species, Xiphidium saltans, probably occurs in the dis- 

 trict, but I know of no actual records of its capture. 



The most distinctive Orthoptera of the Appalachian District are 

 Camnula pellucida, Spharagemon saxatile, Trimerotropis citrina 

 Circotettix verruculatus, Podisma variegata, Melanoplus mancus 

 (probably), and Xiphidium nemorale. These species are either 

 confined to the district or recur only in the Highlands. 



The majority of Appalachian Orthoptera are Piedmont types. 

 These include Orphulella speciosa, Dichromorpha viridis,^ Chloealtis 

 conspersa, Stenohothrus curtipennis, Arphia sulphurea, A. xanthoptera, 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata, Encoptolophus sordidus, Hippiscus tuber- 

 culatus, Dissosteira Carolina, Spharagemon bolli, Melanoplus atlanis, 

 M. femur-rubrum, M. minor, M. femoratus, Scudderia texensis, S. 



6 Recorded from the Highlands of New Jersey, but doubtless occur in the 

 Appalachians. 



' I am not sure whether this species ought to be ranked as an Appalachian 

 species or not. It is abundant in the Piedmont and has been taken along the 

 edge of the Appalachian, but I know of no records from typical Appalachian 

 country. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



curvicauda, S. furcata, Avihlycorypha oblongifolia, A. rotundifolia, 

 Conocephalus triops, Orchelimum vulgare, Xiphidium fasdatum, 

 X. brevipenne, and Atlanticus dorsalis. 



Some Appalachian Orthoptera are as yet unrecorded for the 

 Piedmont Region, but recur in the Coastal Plain. Among these are 

 Mecostethus lineatus, Melanoplus fasciatus, M. pundulatus, Scudderia 

 pistillata, S. septentrionalis, and Conocephalus ensigner. 



No extensive studies of Appalachian Orthopteran habitats have 

 been made, so far as I am aware. Spharagemon saxatile is a saxicolous 

 form and in the New Jersey list is stated to occur on rocky ridges. 

 Doubtless its habitat in this region is like that described by Morse 

 for New England and the Southern States. Podisma variegata 

 appears from data recorded by Rehn^ to be constantly associated 

 with hemlock woods, occurring, according to one observer, Mr. Behr, 

 on the branches of the trees, but according to W. S. Huntington 

 occasionally in grass. 



II. The Highlands. 



As already mentioned, I am not inclined to regard the Highlands 

 as of primary faunistic rank, but rather as a sort of tension area 

 where the typical Piedmont fauna meets and intermingles with 

 outlying representatives of the Appalachian fauna. The data from 

 the region are unfortunately very meagre and are almost entirely 

 restricted to the New Jersey section, the Pennsylvania Highlands 

 being unrepresented in any of the publications or collections examined 

 by me. 



The topography of the Highlands is essentially that of the Appa- 

 lachian Region, but the ridges are lower and have less precipitous 

 slopes. The soils are of residual origin and are of the same character 

 as the typical Piedmont soils. 



The grasshopper fauna of the Highlands has never been fully 

 described, but it will probably be found to include the following 

 forms : 



Orphulella speciosa (a)^ Chloealtis conspersa (a) 



Dichromorpha viridis (6) Stenobothrus curtipennis (a) 



8 Entom. News, XI, 1900, p. 680. 



» (a) Recorded from Highland localities in New Jersey Report. 

 (5) Reported as occurring throughout the State in the same report. 




448 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Mecostethus lineatus (c)^ 

 Arphia sulphur ea (b) 



" xanthoptera (a) 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata (h) 

 Encoptolophus sordidus (a) 

 Hippiscus rugosus {a, d) 



" tuherculatus (a) 

 Dissosteira Carolina (h) 

 Spharagemon bolli (6) 



" saxatile (a) 



Circotettix verruculatus (a) 

 Pseudopomala hrachyptera (c) 

 Schistocerca americana (e) 

 Melanoplus 7nancus (a) 

 " scudderi (a) 

 " atlanis (b) 

 " femur-rubrum (b) 

 " minor (a) 

 " luridus (b) 



Melanoplus femoratus (b) 



" punctulatus (a) 

 Scudderia texensis (a) 

 " curvicauda (/) 

 *' pistillata (a) 

 " furcata (a) 

 " septentrionolis (a) 

 Ajyiblycorypha oblongifolia (a) 

 " rotundifolia (a) 



Conocephalus triops (c) 



" ensiger (a) 



Orchelimum vulgare (/) 



" glaberrvmum (e) 



Xiphidium jasciatum (/) 

 " brevipenne (a) 

 " nemorale (c) 

 " saltans (/) 

 Atlanticus dorsalis (a) 



" pachymerus (a) 



III. The Piedmont District. 



The Piedmont Region of New Jersey consists of a rather narrow 

 belt of gently to moderately rolling country formed almost entirely 

 by the red shales and sandstone of Triassic age, but in Pennsylvania 

 it widens rapidly and includes rocks of many kinds. All of these 

 are thoroughly consolidated and, with the exception of the Triassic 

 series, are more or less extensively metamorphosed. Topographically, 

 the Piedmont possesses considerable relief, but is less rugged than 

 either the Appalachian or Highland Regions, the highest elevations 

 rarely exceeding 600 feet above sea-level. This, however, is sufficient 

 to produce relatively swift-flowing streams and thereby to ensure 

 good drainage. As a result, permanently moist tracts are of limited 

 extent and are largely restricted to soggy patches about spring-heads 

 or to seepage depressions on the level tracts bordering the streams. 



The soils of the Piedmont are residual. They are highly variable 

 in composition and texture in accordance with the varied nature of 

 the underlying rock formations. All agree, however^ in having a 

 loamy texture, the silt-clay content never, according to the published 



^ (c) Possibly occurring throughout the Highlands, but definitely reported 

 only from Fort Lee on the Hudson, where the Highlands meet a narrow arm 

 from the Coastal Plain. 



(d) Recorded under " co))ipaclus" in the Now .Jersey Report. 



(e) From Fort Lee only, probably stragglers from the Coastal Plain. 



(/) No actual records from the Highlands, but are common, widely-distributed 

 species, which doubtless oc(!ur there. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



analyses of the U. S. Bureau of Soils, falling below 35%. Most of 

 the Piedmont soils have a sufficiently open texture to permit the 

 ready percolation of water, but their high silt content enables them 

 to readily conserve the supply, so that, except in periods of excep- 

 tional drought, the amount of moisture available for plant growth 

 is considerable. Being derived either directly or indirectly from 

 crystalline rocks, they are in most instances rich in essential plant- 

 foods, especially potash, lime and magnesium. For these reasons 

 the dominant type of vegetation is mesophytic and with this is 

 correlated the presence of a prevailingly mesophilous grasshopper 

 fauna. Originally the whole region was densely forested, the domi- 

 nant tree growth consisting of hardwoods, but at the present time 

 this has been largely removed and the country converted into farm- 

 lands and pastures. 



The grasshopper fauna of the Piedmont, exclusive of tettigids and 

 nocturnal locustids, includes, to my knowledge, the following species : 



Pseudopomala brachyptera Melanoplus femur-rubrum 



Eritettix carinatus " minor 



Orphulella speciosa " luridus 



'' pelidna '' jemoratus 



Dichromorpha viridis Scudderia texensis 



Chlceoltis conspersa " curvicauda 



Stenobothrus curtipennis " furcata 



Arphia sulphurea Amblycorypha oblongifolia 



" xanthoptera " rotundifolia 



Chortophaga viridifasciata Microcentrum sp. 



Encoptolophus sordidus Conocephalus triops 



Hippiscus tuber culatus . Orchelimum vulgar e 



" rugosus " spinulosum 



Dissosteira Carolina Xiphidium fasciatum 



Spharagemon bolli " brevipenne 



Melanoplus scudderi " strictum 



" tribulus Atlanticus dor salts 



" atlanis 



Of these species those most distinctive of the Piedmont Region 

 are Dichromorpha viridis, Orphulella speciosa, Stenobothrus curti- 

 pennis, Encoptolophus sordidus, Hippiscus tuberculatus, and Mel- 

 anoplus minor. Each of these appears to be either absent, rare or 

 local in the Coastal Plain. 



The most abundant species in the Piedmont, as in the entire eastern 

 section of the continent, is the red-legged grasshopper, Melanoplus 

 jemur-rubrum. This species is present far in excess of any of the 

 other species. Next in point of numbers come such forms as Dichro- 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



morpha viridis, Dissosteira Carolina, Encoptolophus sordidus, Mel- 

 anoplus femoratus, Chortophaga viridifasciata and Orchelimum vulgare. 

 Other common, but somewhat restricted, forms are Stenohothrus 

 curtipennis, Arphia xanthoptera, Arphia sulphurea, Orphulella speciosa, 

 Melanoplus atlanis, Melanoplus minor, Melanoplus scudderi, Xiphi- 

 dium brevipenne, Xiphidium fasciatum, Conocephalus triops, Orcheli- 

 mum spinulosum, Scudderia curvicauda, and Scudderia furcata. 



The following are not uncommon in certain localities, but appar- 

 ently are rare or lacking in many parts of the Piedmont : Hippiscus 

 tuberculatus, Hippiscus rugosus, Xiphidium stricium and Amhly- 

 corypha ohlongifolia. 



The following may in general be regarded as rather scarce members 

 of the Piedmont fauna, although in favorable spots they may be 

 represented in considerable numbers: Eritettix carinatus, Chlceallis 

 conspersa, Spharagemon holli, Melanoplus luridus, Amblycorypha 

 rotundifolia and Atlanticus dorsalis. 



Of exceptional occurrence, though in restricted locations some- 

 times present in surprising numbers, are Pseudopomala brachyptera, 

 Orphulella pelidna, Melanoplus tribulus and Scudderia texensis. 

 The first and third of these have, I believe, been taken only on the 

 Conowingo Barrens of southeastern Pennsylvania. The other two 

 are abundant Coastal Plain forms which only occur in small or 

 moderate numbers in a few Piedmont localities. 



The Orthopteran fauna of the Piedmont is, with some not clearly 

 de'ined exceptions, monotonously uniform throughout. The only 

 subdivisions that I have in any degree been able to recognize are 

 habitat or ecological groups, and even these are not rigidly circum- 

 scribed, the transitions in environmental factors permitting an 

 extensive intermingling of the forms of one habitat with those of the 

 others. 



With these limitations in mind, I think we can recognize tentatively 

 three primary habitats or societies based upon the relative moisture 

 content of the substratum.'" These societies are respectively 



^^ In treating of the various ecological subdivisions, I have in the main adopted 

 the terminology introduced by Morse and Hancock, but have adopted a somewhat 

 different arrangement. Both of these authors primarily subdivide the Orthoptera 

 into ground-frequenting forms (Geophilous society of Morse, Geodytes of Han- 

 cock) and j)lant-frequenting types (Phytophiles of Morse, Phytodytes of Han- 

 cock). This subdivision is to me unsatisfactory because any natural habitat, 

 no matter how dry, will show some vegetation and will accordingly contain both 

 ground-frequenting and plant-frequenting types mingled together in hopeless 

 confusion. To me the best practice seems to be to follow that of the plant ecolo- 

 gists by basing our classification of habitats or habitat-groups primarily upon the 

 available moisture content of the substratum. As all collectors of insects know, 

 the fauna of a marsh is strikingly different from that of a dry barren. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



xerophilous, mesophilous and hygrophilous. The xerophilous society 

 is characteristic of relatively dry situations. Morse^^ recognizes 

 three subdivisions or associations of this group, i.e., saxicolous or 

 rock-frequenting, arenicolous or sand-frequenting and humicolous 

 or those frequenting soils, loams especially, which although dry, 

 contain a larger percentage of moisture than the sands. The last 

 association naturally merges into the typical mesophilous society. 

 In the Piedmont only the humicolous association appears to be 

 represented and this is naturally not always easily separable from 

 the dominant mesophilous society. 



The xerophilous faunule is typically developed in the Piedmont 

 upon the so-called "poor soils." These soils occur on uplands and 

 steep hillsides where, owing to rain wash, the soil is either thin or 

 stony and therefore capable of supporting only a coarse type of 

 vegetation. In some cases the dryness of the ground is due to the 

 texture of soil and underljdng rock which allows a relatively rapid 

 percolation of water, as on the ridges formed by the Chickies quartzite 

 and Stockton conglomerates, or to the chemical character of the soil, 

 as on the Conowingo or Serpentine Barrens. Where the woodlands 

 have been removed the vegetation on these areas is of a somewhat 

 open character, numerous bare patches of soil showing between the 

 more or less scattered plants. The dominant plant growth consists 

 of coarse herbaceous types, such as are typical of dry, waste land 

 (bunch-grasses, Andropogon spp., Panicum, etc., cinquefoU, sheep 

 sorrel, Rumex acetosella, blackberry and wild rose bushes). In such 

 surroundings we normally encounter the following species of grass- 

 hoppers : 



Orphulella speciosa Dissosteira Carolina 



Arphia sulphur ea Melanoplus atlanis 



" xantJioptera " femur-ruhrum 



Chortophaga viridifasciata " minor 



Encoptolophus sordidus ^' femoratus 



Hippiscus tuberculatus Xiphidium strictum 



" rugosus 



Other species of more sporadic occurrence, but typical xerophiles, 

 are Eritettix carinatus, Pseudopomala hrachyptera, and Orphulella 

 pelidna. 



Of the above species I would tentatively consider the following as 

 the more distinctively xerophilous: Orphulella speciosa, Arphia 



11 Researches on North American Acridiidae, Carnegie Inst, of Washington, 

 Pubhcation No. IS, 1904, p. 14. 



30 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



sulphurea, Hippiscus tuberculatus, Hippiscus rugosus, Melanoplus 

 atlanis, Melanoplus minor and Xiphidium strictum. All of these 

 may, as I have noticed, occur in reduced numbers in mesophilous 

 habitats, so that they are only predominantly xerophilous, not 

 absolutely so. 



Where woodlands prevail, in which numerous small clearings occur, 

 a somewhat different phase of the xerophilous faunule obtains. 

 This, following Morse, we may call the sylvan phase in contradis- 

 tinction from the open country or campestral phase. The tree growth 

 in these relatively xerophytic habitats consists predominantly of 

 oaks {Q. alba, Q. rubra, Q. velutina, Q. prinus), hickory, chestnut and 

 dogwood, with occasional groves of scrub pine (P. virginiana) and 

 red cedar (Juniperus virginiana). In the cleared portions of the 

 woods, where alone grasshoppers usually occur, a mixed growth of 

 grasses, vines and low shrubbery takes place. In such spots we 

 usually meet with the following Orthoptera: 



Orphulella speciosa Melanoplus minor 



Arphia sulphurea Scudderia curvicauda 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata " furcata 



Hippiscus tuberculatus Amblycorypha oblongifolia 

 Dissosteira Carolina " rotundifolia 



Melanoplus scudderi Microcentrum sp. 



" femnr-rubrum Atlanticus dorsalis 



In addition to these, we occasionally find associated with them, 

 sometimes in considerable numbers, the following species: 



Eritettix carinatus Melanoplus luridus 



Spharagemon bolli 



Rarely one meets with the following: 



Pseudopomala brachyptera Melanoplus tribulus 



Orphulella pelidna 



This woodland or sylvan faunule is not always clearly distin- 

 guishable from the adjoining campestral faunule. There are all 

 transitions from the one type of habitat to the other. The clearing 

 away of the forests has extended the habitat of the campestral types. 

 As the trees are thinned out the latter occupy the habitats originally 

 occupied by the sylvan forms, the latter either becoming extinct or 

 persisting locally where conditions are favorable. The more exclu- 

 sively woodland species in this region are Spharagemon bolli and Mel- 

 anoplus luridus, and both of these forms are, at present at least, 

 extremely local in their distribution in the Piedmont Region, though 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



where conditions are favorable they are not uncommon. The other 

 woodland types are apparently better able to adapt themselves to 

 certain features of a campestral environment, such as the thicket 

 and scrub formations which tend to overrun waste lands. 



The mesophilous society is the dominant faunal group of the 

 Piedmont Region, especially as represented by its campestral phase. 

 This is the faunule which one everywhere encounters in the rich 

 farming country, such as is typically found throughout the limestone 

 valleys. The prevailing vegetation consists of bright green succulent 

 grasses that form a firm sod. Roads, paths and plowed fields provide, 

 however, abundance of bare ground suitable for geophilous types. 



The campestral mesophile faunule typically yields the following 

 species : 



Dichromorpha viridis Melanoplus femur-ruhrum 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata " femoratus 



Encoptolophus sordidus Conocephalus triops 



Dissosteira Carolina Orchelimum vulcjare 



The sylvan phase of the mesophilous society is not always clearly 

 distinguishable from the campestral for the reason already mentioned. 

 It consists typically of the following : 



Chortophaga viridifasciata Scudderia curvicauda 

 Melanoplus scudderi " furcata 



" fenur-ruhruni Xiphidium hrevipenne 



*' femoratus 



As a sporadic member of this phase we may add Scudderia texensis. 



Hygrophilous Orthoptera inhabit areas of damp, moist or wet 

 soils. Of these we may, like Morse, distinguish two categories, 

 namely, humicolous hydrophiles and paludicolous hydrophiles. The 

 former are frequenters of areas in which the soil, though usually 

 damp, is normally not wet or soggy. The latter inhabit tracts which 

 are actually wet. In the Piedmont there is no hard-and-fast line 

 separating these two groups. As already mentioned, hygrophilous 

 habitats in the Piedmont Region are of extremely restricted extent, 

 owing to the very perfect drainage of the whole region. 



The campestral phase of the humicolous hygrophiles is typically 

 represented by the fauna of the open grassy meadows which in many 

 places border the streams. The soil of these meadows is usually 

 a fine, alluvial clay-loam corresponding approximately to the Lickdale 

 clay-loam of the Bureau of Soils. The vegetation is dominated by 

 succulent grasses, which are extensively utilized for pasture. Asso- 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



ciated with the grasses is a large variety of other plants, among 

 which we may mention buttercups {Ranunculus bulbosus), quaker- 

 ladies (Houstonia ccerulea), spring-beauty {Claytonia virginica), 

 golden ragwort {Senicio aureus), cynthia {Adopogon virginicum), 

 elder (Sambucus canadensis), iron-weed (Vernonia noveboracensis)) 

 blue vervain {Verbena hastata), joe-pye weed {Eupatoriun purpureum, 

 and boneset {Eupatorinm perfoliatum) . 



The Orthoptera inhabiting these meadowlands and pastures include 

 regularly the following species: 



Dichromorpha viridis Scudderia furcata 



Chortophaga viridijasciata Conocephalus triops 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum Orchelimum vulgar e 



" jemoratiis Xiphidiuni fasciatum 

 Scudderia curvicauda " brevipenne 



Scudderia texensis is an occasional member of this faunule. 



This faunule includes no peculiar types, but is chiefly distinguished 

 from the mcsophilous by the absence of the more geophilous forms) 

 and by the proportionately much greater numbers of the hygrophilous 

 species, such as D. viridis, C. triops, 0. vulgare and X. fasciatum. 



A slightly different phase of the humicolous hygrophilous society 

 is found in open woodland occupying damp or slightly moist depres- 

 sions marking usually the head-waters of some rivulet. The Orthop- 

 tera occurring in such places consist of the following species: 



Chloealtis conspersa (local) Scudderia furcata 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum Orchelimum vulgare 



" femoratus Xiphidium brevipenne 



Scudderia curvicauda 



Paludicolous Orthoptera arc the swamp dwellers. In the Pied- 

 mont swamps are of relatively small extent and are most commonly 

 represented by local depressions in the meadowlands where the 

 water-table is normally so close to the surface that the latter is kept 

 permanently moist or even covered with water. In these swamps the 

 vegetation consists of a mixture of succulent grasses — e.g., Homalo- 

 cenchrus orijzoides — and sedges among which species of Carex are 

 prominent, especially the tussock sedge (C stricta). Such locations 

 constitute the favorite hal:)itat of such Orthoptera as Stenobothrus 

 curtipennis and Orchelimum spinulosum, which appear to be the only 

 paludicolous forms represented in the Piedmont. Owing to the 

 small size of the swamps, ()rthopt(n-a from the adjoining drier lands 

 frequently invade them, making it difficult to clearly discriminate 

 this faunule from the meadow faunule. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



IV. The Coastal Plain. 



The Coastal Plain includes all of the country south and east of the 

 fall-line. It consists essentially of a low plain of very sli,i>-ht relief 

 and hence, for most of its extent, at least, of very imperfect drainage. 

 This is especially true of that portion east and south of the range of 

 low hills marking the divide between the Delaware and Atlantic 

 drainage systems. In this part the seaward slope is exceedingly 

 gradual and consequently the stream flow is very sluggish and the 

 drainage very inadequate, resulting in the formation of extensive 

 bogs. West of the divide the stream gradient is considerably greater, 

 so that this part, constituting the Delaware Valley or Middle Dis- 

 trict of Stone, is on the whole fairly well drained, though in their 

 lower courses the'streams are so near tide-level that they become 

 very sluggish and form wide mud-flats through which the streams 

 tortuously meander. 



The all but universal soil of the Coastal Plain is a coarse sand 

 corresponding approximately to the Norfolk sand of the Bureau of 

 Soils. Associated with this are frequent areas of coarse gravel 

 similar to the Sassafras gravelly loam of the same Bureau.^- East 

 of the Delaware-Atlantic divide these sands and gravels form a 

 practically unbroken cover, but west of that line, in the Middle 

 District, they are frequently interrupted by more or less extensive 

 areas of clays and loams, some of which are due to the exposure of 

 the underlying Cretaceous and Miocene deposits consequent upon 

 the removal by erosion of the original capping of sand and gravel. 

 In consequence of this variety of soil types, the Middle District is 

 characterized by a greater diversity of flora and fauna than the 

 remaining subdivisions of the New Jersey Coastal Plain. 



The two general features in which the Coastal Plain most markedly 

 differs from the Piedmont Region are: (1) the almost universal 

 presence of coarse sands, and (2) the development of extensive tracts 

 of permanently wet areas. With these is correlated the prevalence 

 of two widely different types of fauna, a xerophilous fauna charac- 

 teristic of the sandy districts and a hygrophilous fauna characteristic 

 of the bogs and marshes. The inesophilous fauna is of relatively 

 limited extent, being fulh^ represented only on the clay and loamy 

 soils of the Middle District, but tending to spread into the other 



12 For the characteristics of these different types of Coastal Plain soils see 

 Soil Survey of the Salem, N. J., Area, Field Operations of the Bureau of Soils, 

 1901. 




456 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



districts with the conversion of the country into farm and truck 

 lands. 



The grasshopper fauna (exclusive of Tettigince and the more noc- 

 turnal Locustidce) of the Coastal Plain includes the following species: 



T7'yxalis hrevicornis 

 Pseudopomala brachyptera 

 Mermiria vigilans 

 Syrbula admirabilis 

 Eritetiix carinatus 

 Dichromorpha viridis 

 CUnocephalus elegans 

 OrpkuleUa speciosa 



" pelidna 



" olivacea 

 Chloealtis conspersa 

 Stenobothr^us curtipennis 

 Mecostethus lineatus 

 Arphia sulphured 



" xanthoptera 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata 

 Encoptoloph us sordidus 

 Hippiscus phoenicopterus 



" rugosus 

 Dissosteira Carolina 

 Spharagemon bolli 



" wyomingianum 



Trimerotropis maritiyna 

 Psinidia fenestralis 

 Scirtetica marmorata 

 Schistocerca americana 



" daninifica 



" olutacea 



7-ubiginosa 

 sp. cf. obscura 

 Hcsperotettix bi-evipennis 

 Dendrotettix quercus 

 Melanoplus scudderi 



' ' tribulus 



" fasciatus 



" atlanis 



" femur-rubrum 



" minor 



impudicus 



luridus 



stonei 



u 





n 



Melanoplus differentialis 

 femoratus 

 punctulatus 



Paroxya floridiana 

 '' scudderi 



Scudderia texensis 



u 



tl 



II 



curvicauda 

 pistillata 

 furcata 

 septentrionalis 

 truncata 

 Amblycorypha oblongifolia 

 rotundifolia 

 uhleri 

 Microcentrum rhombifolium 



" retinerve 



Conocephalus robustus 

 triops 

 ensiger 

 lyristes 

 exiliscanorus 

 nebrascensis 

 caudellianus 

 palustris 

 Orchelimum vulgare 



" glaberrimum 

 '* erythrocephalum 

 " herbaceum 

 " spiyiulosum (? validum) 

 " P'ulchellum 

 " campestre 

 " minor 

 " Jidicinium 

 Xiphidium fasciatum 

 " brevipenne 



" strict um 



" saltans 



" spartince 



" nigropleuroides 



A tlanticus dorsa lis 



" pachymerus 



As indicated earlier in this paper, the Coastal Plain fauna is made 

 up of representatives of four primary regional faunules, namely, 

 Appalachian, Piedmont, Coastal and Pine Barren. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



The Appalachian faunule is represented by a few types that recur 

 locally or in diminished numbers in the Coastal Plain, such as Scud- 

 deria pistillata, S. septentrionalis, Conocephalus ensiger and Xiphidium 

 saltans. 



The Piedmont faunule include species whose local centre of dis- 

 tribution is in the Piedmont, but which occur in smaller numbers or 

 locally in the Coastal Plain. To this group I would refer the following 

 species : 



Dichromorpha viridis Encoptolophus sordidus 



Orphulella speciosa Melanoplus minor 



Stenohothrus curtipennis 



This faunule is best represented in the Middle District, to which, 

 indeed, two of the species, D. viridis and E. sordidus, appear to be 

 entirely confined, or at most barely enter the other districts. The 

 other three species have been taken throughout, but only in widely 

 separated localities and usually in very small numbers. 



IV (a) . The Coastal Subdivision or District. 



The Coastal faunule is typical of the marshes and low forelands 

 bordering the ocean, the lower portions of the Delaware River and 

 all tidal estuaries. Of this faunule we can distinguish several minor 

 components of an ecological nature, each of which is characteristic 

 of some well-defined physiographic feature of the region. 



As is well known, the coast of New Jersey is formed by a succession 

 of long, narrow sand-spits heaped up by wind and wave. These 

 are the coast-islands or barrier-beaches, all of which in New Jersey 

 are fast being transformed into summer resorts. Back of the barrier- 

 beaches come the salt marshes, low grassy flats daily inundated by 

 the tide. Beyond these, rising very gradually out of the marshes, 

 comes the mainland. A narrow strip of the mainland immediately 

 bordering the salt marshes has different faunal and floral characteristics 

 from those of the interior — a difference first recognized by Stone, who 

 has called it the Coastal Strip. The Coastal Strip is similar in every 

 essential respect to the low forelands bordering the maritime marshes 

 of the Delaware River and Bay. 



In the Coastal District I recognize the following ecological groups : 

 (1) the Subcoastal; (2) the Littoral or Dune; (3) the Submaritime, 

 and (4) the Maritime, 



The Subcoastal group is characteristic of the Coastal Strip, more 

 especially of its drier portions. It is very rich in species, due doubt- 

 less to the diversity of conditions consequent upon the transition 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



from a dry, sandy upland to the low, marshy areas bordering the salt 

 marshes. The soil throughout is a coarse sand similar to the Norfolk 

 type. In the more elevated areas it may be quite dry at the surface, 

 but is usually underlaid at no great depth by the water-table. The 

 sand is very porous, but its proximity to underground water makes 

 it a good corn and truck soil, as a result of which it has been exten- 

 sively cleared and cultivated. Where the surface of the sand ap- 

 proaches within a foot or so of permanent water-level it is often 

 highly impregnated with organic matter, and in such cases assumes 

 the character of a sandy loam. 



Most of the Coastal Strip is of the open campestral type, though 

 groves and thickets of limited extent are frequent in the shallow 

 depressions leading down to the salt marshes. Where the fields are 

 not cultivated they soon become overrun with native and introduced 

 weeds and bush6s, among which we may mention such forms as the 

 tall bunch-grasses of the genus Andropogon, timothy {Phleum 

 pratense), sand-bur {Cenchrus carolinianus) , Juncus tenuis, species of 

 smart-weed {Polygonum), Scleranthus annuus, bayberry {Myrica 

 caroliniensis, beach plum (Prunus maritima), wild indigo {Baptisia 

 tinctoria), sensitive pea (Cassia nictitans and chamcecrista) , bush- 

 clovers (Lespedeza spp.), 16w evening primrose {CEnothera laciniata),. 

 butterfly-weed {Asclepias tuherosa), blue toad-flax (Linaria canaden- 

 sis), horse-mint {Monarda punctata), low cynthia (Adopogon caro- 

 linianum), rag-weed (Ambrosia artemiifolia) , black-eye susan (Ru- 

 heckia hirta), white boneset (Eupatorium album, etc.), golden aster 

 (Chrysopis mariana), and goldenrods (Solidago and Euthamnia spp.)- 



This vegetation is evidently of a mild xerophytic type. The 



Orthoptera associated with it may therefore be regarded as a xe- 



rophilous faunule of the humicolous subtype and campestral station. 



To this faunule I would refer the following species : 



Syrbula admirabilis Melanoplus atlanis 

 Eritettix carinatus " femur-rubrum 



Orphulella pelidna " femoratus 



Arphia sidphurea Scudderia texensis 

 " xanthoptera " furcata 



Chortophaga viridifasciala Amblycorypha oblongifolia 

 Hippiscus phoenicopterus " uhleri 



" rugosus Microcentrum sp. 



Dissosteira Carolina Concephalus robustus 

 Trimeroiropis maritima " triops 



Psinidia fenestralis Orchelimum vidgare 



Schistocerca americana Xiphidium strictum 



" damnifica " saltans 



Melanoplus scudderi 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



The most abundant species is Melanoplus femur-ruhnmi, which 

 literally swarms in the low, weedy fields and pastures just above the 

 salt meadows, but is somewhat less frequent in the drier uplands, 

 where it is almost equalled in numbers by such forms as Melanoplus 

 atlanis and Orphulella pelidna. Other common species of this 

 faunule are Arphia xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Dissos- 

 teira Carolina, Psinidia fenestralis, Scudderia texensis, Orchelimum 

 vxdgare and Xiphidium strictum. 



Frequent, but not especially common, species are Syrbula admir- 

 abilis, Hippiscus 7'ugosus, Melanoplus fetnoratus, Scudderia furcata, 

 both species of Amhlgcorypha, Conocephalus rohiistus and triops. 



Frequent locally, particularly in thicketed areas and along the 

 borders of woodlands, are such species as Arphia sulphurea, Hippiscus 

 phoenicoj)terus, Sckistocerca damnifica, and Melanoplus scudderi. 

 These seem to be essentially sylvan types, which in the Coastal 

 District succeed in holding their own in the locations mentioned. 



The following members of the Subcoastal faunule appear to be 

 rare or very exceptional: Eritettix carinatus, Trimerotropis maritima, 

 Sckistocerca americana and Xiphidium saltans. 



The Littoral or, more properlj^, Dune group is characteristic of 

 the higher, drier parts of the beaches. As already mentioned, these 

 beaches are formed of sand heaped up by the combined action of 

 wind, wave and tide. In southern New Jersey, where I am most 

 familiar with them, they all present the same physiographic features. 

 On the ocean side there is the beach or strand, consisting of two 

 portions, a lower beach covered regularly daily by the tide and 

 totally devoid of all vegetation, and an upper beach, which is only 

 covered at intervals, as during severe storms. The upper beach 

 normally consists of dry, white quartz sand. It is largely bare, but 

 supports an open growth of several plants, the most abundant and 

 characteristic of which is the sea-rocket, Cakile edentula, other 

 frequent associates being Salsola kali and Ammodenia peploides. 

 Above the upper beach comes the outer or frontal dune and back of 

 it and extending to the salt meadows stretches a variable series of 

 minor dunes with intervening depressions, many of which are deep 

 enough to reach to and expose the underlying marsh mud. The 

 frontal dune is dominated by a nearly pure growth of the sand-binding 

 grass, Ammophila arenaria, which also constitutes the dominant 

 vegetation for several rods back of the frontal dune, but is gradually 

 replaced on more leeward dune areas by a mixed growth, consisting 

 of such forms as Andropogon littoralis, several species of Panicum, 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Cenchrus trihuloides, species of Cyperus and Carex, sand-myrtle, 

 Hudsonia tomentosa, and prickly-pear cactus, Opuntia opuntia. Fur- 

 ther back these are replaced by the bayberry, Myrica carolinensis, 

 thicket formation. This extends close to the edge of the salt marsh, 

 but is separated from the latter by a usually narrow zone consisting 

 chiefly of Iva oraria and Baccharis haliriii folia, the distinctive salt- 

 marsh border plants. The dune depressions harbor a hydrophytic 

 flora similar to that characteristic of the Submaritime zone. 



The chief distinguishing features of the Orthopteran fauna of the 

 beaches are positively the abundance of T rimer otropis maritima, the 

 presence of a peculiar race or possibly species of Schistocerca and the 

 relative frequency of Schistocerca americana; negatively the absence 

 or scarcity of several mainland species. 



The following list gives all the species which to my knowledge 

 have been taken or recorded from the beaches, excepting, however, 

 all forms that I regard as more properly belonging to the Submari- 

 time faunule. 



Orphidella speciosa Schistocerca sp. cf. obscura 



" pelidna Melanoplus femur-rubrum 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata " femoratus 



Hippiscus phoenicopterus Scudderia texensis 

 Dissosteira Carolina " furcata 



Trimerotropis maritima Conocephalus robustus 

 Psinidia fenestralis " triops 



Scirtetica marmorata Orchelimum vulgare 



Schistocerca americana Xiphidium striatum 



There is a close correspondence between the distribution of Orthop- 

 tera on the beaches and that of the vegetation already referred to. 

 On the outermost dunes in the Ammophila arenaria areas Trimero- 

 tropis maritima abounds to the almost total exclusion of other species. 

 Further back, where the Ammophila begins to be replaced by a mixed 

 vegetation, the Trimerotropis gradually becomes reduced in numbers, 

 its place being taken by such species as Psinidia fenestralis and 

 Dissosteira Carolina, both of which are abundant on bare sandy spots. 

 The vegetation in this zone is a very open one and consequently 

 there are numerous exposed areas of dry sand on which these forms 

 delight to rest. Still further back from the sea we come to the 

 bayberry thickets in which the peculiar maritime species or variety 

 of Schistocera is of frequent occurrence. This form of the genus is 

 apparently restricted to the beaches. In coloration it closely resem- 

 bles S. ruhiginosa of inland districts, but is always much larger, and, 

 as Mr. Rehn has suggested to me, may represent a non-striped race 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



of S. obscura just as rubiginosa may be a similar phase of S. alutacea. 

 Where the bay berry formation is more open, the grassy tracts 

 extending about and between the bushes abound in Melanoplus 

 fctnur-rubrum and Orphulella pelidna, while associatetl with them are 

 nuieh smaller, but not inconsiderable numbers of Orchelimum vulgare, 

 Scudderia iexensis, Conocephalus robustus and, locally at least, 

 Schistocerca americana. Along the edges of the salt meadows and 

 about the dune depressions these forms meet and more or less inter- 

 mingle with the Submaritime species. 



At the present time it is difficult to decide which of the species 

 given in the above list are indigenous to the islands and which have 

 been secondarily introduced through human agency. There can be 

 no doubt that human occupancy by destroying primitive conditions, 

 introducing artificial conditions and establishing railroads, turnpikes 

 and other avenues of communication with the mainland has effected 

 and is still effecting far-reaching changes in the faunal and floral 

 features of the islands. The clearing away of the bayberry thickets 

 over large tracts and the levelling of the dunes into building lots, 

 together with the importation of gravel from the mainland, have 

 resulted in the introduction of the common grasses and weeds of the 

 mainland, with the result that near all thickly populated parts the 

 vegetation is almost exclusively of the weedland type. In such 

 places one regularly meets such Orthoptera as Melanoplus femur- 

 rubrum, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Dissosteira Carolina, and Orcheli- 

 mum vulgare. 



Certain species, common on the neighboring mainland, are so 

 rare or exceptional on the beaches that there can be little doubt that 

 they represent quite recent introductions. Among these we may 

 mention Hippiscus phoenicopterus (1 individual taken in a vacant 

 lot at Sea Isle City, apparently the only instance of its occurrence 

 on the beaches), Melanoplus femoratus (a few taken at Anglesea), 

 Conocephalus triops (1 taken on Seven-mile Beach) and Xiphidium 

 slricium (1 each from Avalon and Cape May). Two additional 

 species apparently very rare on the beaches are Scirtetica marmoraia 

 and Scudderia furcata. It is doubtful whether these last two forms 

 are recent introductions or relicts from a time when the islands were 

 more extensively wooded. My own specimens of these forms from 

 the beaches came from Seven- and Five-mile Beaches, both of which 

 were until recently extensively wooded. 



I have never seen Orphulella speciosa on any of the beaches, but 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has several examples 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



from Anglesea, the only known instance, I believe, of the occurrence 

 of this species in the Coastal District. 



The Submaritime group characterizes the narrow zone which 

 marks the transition from salt marsh to sandy upland. The soil of 

 this zone is a silt darkened by organic matter. Normally it is quite 

 damp, but, except in the more depressed areas where the ground is 

 soggy, it forms a firm sod due to the interlacing rootlets of the thick 

 vegetation which covers it. The Submaritime zone evidently marks 

 the line along which the seepage of fresh water takes place from the 

 mainland. Chemical analysis of the water from the same zone at 

 Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, showed it to be entirely fresh, ^* 

 though salt water occasionally invades the zone at the highest tides 

 or during severe storms. The dominant vegetation consists of a 

 mixed growth of Spartina patens and Juncus gerardi on the firmer 

 areas and of a nearly pure groAvth of Scirpus mnericanus in the wet 

 depressions. Other plants more or less frequent in this zone are 

 Echinochloa walteri, DistichUs spicata, Scirpus olneyi and 7'obustus, 

 Dondia maritima, Tissa marina, Kosteletzkya virginica, Ptilimnium 

 capillaceum, Sabatia siellaris, Asclepias lanceolata, Gerardia purpurea 

 and maritima, Pluchea camphorata, Iva oraria and Baccharis halimi- 

 j'olia. 



The Orthopteran faunule of the Submaritime zone is especially 

 distinguished by the abundance of Clinocephalus elegans, which 

 frequents the Spartina patens- J uncus gerardi areas, and of Orcheli- 

 mum herhaceum, which is partial to the patches of Scirpus americanus. 

 The entire faunule includes the following species: 



Tryxalis hrevicornis Conocephalus nebrascensis 

 Pseudopomala brachyptera " caudellianus 



Meryniria vigilans " palustris 



Clinocephalus elegans " fuscostriatus (?) 



Chloealtis conspersa Orchelimum herbaceum 

 M elanoplus feniur-nibrum " spimdosum 



Paroxya floridiana Xiphidium fasciaium 

 Conocephalus lyristes " spartince 



" exiliscanorus 



Of these species the most abundant in the Submaritime zone is* 

 M elanoplus femur-rubrum. Next to it in point of numbers comes 

 Xiphidium fasciatum. Other abundant species are Clinocephalus 

 elegans, Paroxya floridiana and Orchelimum herbaceum. Locally 

 Tryxalis brevicornis is common in the Scirpus areas. The remaining 



" E. N. Transeau, Relation of Plant Societies to Vegetation, Bot. Gaz., XLV, 

 1908. 




191-1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



species arc nnich less frequent, though such forms as Conocephalus 

 iyristes and caudelliamis and Orchelimum spinulosum are not un- 

 common. Pscudopomala hrachyptera and Chlcealtis conspersa are 

 both very exceptional and, when found, are usually in close proximity 

 to Iva oraria thickets. Mermiria vigilans has been taken regularly 

 only in the vicinity of Cape May City and rarely in other localities 

 in Cape ]\Iay County, but not, so far as I am aware, outside of that 

 county. Conocephalus fiiscostriatKS was taken once by Mr. Henry 

 Fowler near Cape May Point. Xiphidium spartinoe is not infrequent 

 in the Spartina patens areas, but is to be regarded as a stray from 

 the true Maritime faunule rather than as a regular member of the 

 present faunule. 



The Maritime faunule occurs in the true salt marshes. The soil 

 in these marshes is a soft, gelatinous muck or ooze containing a 

 relatively high amount of salt. In spite of its softness, the greater 

 part of the salt marsh is quite firm, owing to the thick covering of 

 coarse grasses, the interlacing roots of which bind the soft material 

 into a tough sod. The vegetation of the salt marsh consists of an 

 almost pure growth of the characteristic salt marsh-grass, Spartina 

 strica { = glabra). Of this there are two varieties easily recognizable 

 in the New Jersey salt marshes. The more common variety is a 

 short form that covers the flat areas away from and between the 

 waterways; the other a much taller variety that forms reed-like 

 growths along the tidal creeks and ditches which traverse the marshes 

 in every direction. Wet sandy areas not occupied by the grass are 

 frequently characterized by an open growth of salt-worts, Salicornia 

 europcea, higlovii and amhigua. The only other plant that is at all 

 conspicuous in the salt marsh is the sea-lavencler, Limonium caroli- 

 num, which is of frequent occurrence throughout the flats covered 

 with the short variety of Spartina. 



The Orthoptera of the salt marsh form a very distinct faunule. 

 In the short variety of Spartina occur large numbers of Orphulella 

 olivacea and Xiphidium spartime, while the tall variety along the 

 waterways is characterized by Orchelimum fidicinium and Xiphidium 

 nigropleuroides, both of which occur there in abundance, especially 

 the former. In addition to these, both varieties of the grass harbor 

 moderate numbers of Conocephalus Iyristes. 



The Maritime or true salt-marsh faunule thus contains the fol- 

 lowing grasshoppers : 



Orphulella olivacea Xiphidium sparlinos 



Conocephalus Iyristes " nigropleusroide 



Orchelimum fidicinium 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



IV (h). The Pine Barren District. 



The Pine Barren Faunule is the fourth primary faunal group 

 represented in the Coastal Plain. It is typically developed in the 

 sandy barrens lying between the Delaware-Atlantic divide and the 

 Coastal Strip. As already mentioned, this is a region of exceedingly 

 slight relief, the surface sloping almost imperceptibly toward the 

 ocean. The surface, however, is not entirely flat, but is more or less 

 gently undulating, the hollows being occupied by the cedar bogs 

 which form a highly characteristic physiographic feature of the 

 district. The all but universal soil is a coarse sand similar in character 

 to the Norfolk and Winsor sands of the Bureau of Soils. In places 

 the sand contains many pebbles and these may become such an 

 important constituent of the soil that it becomes a gravel similar 

 in essential respects to the Sassafras gravelly loam. In very dry 

 situations, where there is very little plant cover, the sand has a 

 decidedly bleached appearance, but the subsoil is always of a deeper 

 color, usually a pale orange or buff tint. In damper spots, where the 

 plant covering is thicker, the sand usually has a dark gray or even 

 black tint, due to the accumulation of organic debris. 



The vegetation of the Pine Barrens is of a decidedly xerophytic 

 aspect, owing to the coarse texture of the sand which allows the ready 

 percolation of water. Most of the region is forested, the dominant 

 trees on the^ sands and gravels being the pitch pine, Piyius rigida, 

 and several oaks, especially black-jack oak, Quercus marylandica, 

 scrub oak, Q. ilicifolia, post oak, Q. stellata, and scrub chestnut oak, 

 Q. prinoides. Practically all of the timber at the present time is of 

 secondary growth, the region having been cut over repeatedly and 

 frequently swept by destructive forest fires. The woods are accord- 

 ingly of a rather open character, the taller trees being much scattered, 

 but usually with a dense undergrowth of oak and pine saplings, the 

 former predominating. Where this undergrowth is not too thick, 

 there are associated with these various smaller shrubs, such as bracken- 

 fern (Pteridium aquilinum), sweet-fern (Comptonia asplenifolia), 

 wild indigo (Baptisia tinctoria), mountain laurel (Knbnia latifoUa) 

 and l)lueberries {Vaccinium vacillans and Gaylussacia baccata). 

 Where clearings have been made varying conditions prevail according 

 to the stage of reforestation reached. In very dry, exposed situations 

 the sand, exposed to wind action, may remain bare for a long time, 

 giving rise to formations similar to the "blow-outs" of the Middle 

 West. Gradually, however, a low, mat-like vegetation, composed 

 of such forms as reindeer-moss (Cladonia sp.), sandwort (Arenaria 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



caroliniatia) , wild ipecac {Euphorbia ipecacuanhce) , Hudsonia ericoides, 

 sand myrtle {Dendrium huxijolium), arbutus (Epigoea repens) and 

 pyxie {Pyxidanthera barbulata), takes possession and following or 

 accompanying these are bunch-grasses, like the Andropogons and 

 rosette grasses mostly of the genus Panicum {P. conmionsianum, 

 addisoni, columbianum, etc.). These prepare the way for a low shrub 

 vegetation of blueberries and associated plants. 



The bogs of the Pine Barrens are the results, as already mentioned^ 

 of the imperfect drainage of the region. The rain-water from the 

 sands passes by seepage into the depressions and there accumulates 

 until it finds an outlet into one of the general drainage systems. 

 Owing to the low relief of the country, the Avater never accumulates 

 to any great depth and is consequently choked by a luxuriant vegeta- 

 tion of a typical peat-bog aspect. Originally, especially in the wetter 

 parts of the bogs, the dominant tree was the white cedar, Chamcecy- 

 paris thyoides, whence the term cedar-bog so frequently applied to 

 the Pine Barren bogs. In many swamps, however, this tree has been 

 largely removed and its place taken by a mixed growth, of which the 

 dominant tree is the red maple, Acer rubrum. Along with this are 

 large numbers of sour-gum, Nyssa sylvatica, and swamp magnolia, 

 M. virginiana. Beneath these is usually a dense undergrowth of 

 tall shrubs like clammy azalea, Azalea viscosa, sweet pepper bush, 

 Clethra ahiijolia, high bush-huckleberry, Vaccinium corymbosum, 

 and withe-rod, Viburnum nudum. Where the taller vegetation is 

 not too dense there is a lower undergro^siih of cinnamon fern {Osmunda 

 annamomea), royal fern {Osmunda regalis), chain fern (Woodwardia 

 virginica) chokeberry {Aronia arbutifolia), inkberry (Ilex glabra) 

 and such ericaceous shrubs as leucothoe (L. racemosa), privet 

 andromeda (Xolisma ligustrina) and cassandra {Chamadaphne 

 calyculata). In still more open places, where the shrubby growth 

 has been cut away, a varied herbaceous growth prevails consisting 

 predominantly of chain fern {Woodwardia virginica) and certain tall 

 .species of sedges and rushes {Eleocharis spp., Rhynchospora alba, 

 Eriophorum virginicum, Juncus canadensis, J. dichotomus, J. acumi- 

 natus, J. effusus, etc.). Cushions of bog-moss {Sphagmim spp.) 

 are frequent about the bases of these plants and in these grow several 

 species of sundew {Drosera). Other plants not infrequent in these 

 places are swamp pink {Helonias bullata), Avhite fringed orchid 

 {Blephoriglottis blephariglottis), rose pogonia {Pogonia ophioglossoides), 

 grass-pink {Limodorum tuberosum) and the cranberry {Oxycoccus 

 macrocarpon) . 




466 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



In addition to the sand}^ pine lands and the peat bogs, which 

 represent the two native Pine Barren types of environment, there 

 is a minor third type consequent upon the operations of man. Where 

 the country is cleared and settled and the land placed under cultiva- 

 tion, conditions are produced which favor a fauna and flora essentially 

 like that prevailing in the Delaware Valley and Coastal districts. 

 In such places a weedy type of vegetation predominates, characterized 

 by forms common in the low-lying sandy areas of those districts, 

 among which we may mention the following: Syntherisma san- 

 guinalis, Phleum pratense, Chcetochloa viridis, Cenchrus carolinianus, 

 Sisyynhrium officinale, Draba verna, Trifolium arvense, T. pratense, 

 T. procimibens, Melilotus officinalis. Cassia nictitans, Strophostyles 

 helvola, Asclepias tuherosa, Monarda punctata, Verbascum thapsus, 

 Linaria canadensis, Plantago lanceolata, Specular ia perfoliata, 

 Ambrosia arlemisii folia. 



There are thus three types of habitat characteristic of the Pine 

 Barrens, i.e., (1) the sand barrens; (2) the peat bogs; (3) the cul- 

 tivated areas. Each of these is distinguished by certain peculiarities 

 of flora and fauna. 



The entire grasshopper fauna of the Pine Barrens (exclusive of 

 the groups not considered in this paper) includes, to my knowledge, 

 the following species. Some of these are referred to this fauna with 

 a query, owing to the fact that all records of their capture are close 

 to the borders of the Pine Barrens, a fact indicative of the possibility 

 of their being merely stragglers from the adjoining districts. 



Mermiria vigilans (?) 

 Syrbula admirabilis 

 Eritettix carinatus 

 Orphulella speciosa (?) 



" pelidna 

 Clinocephalus elegans (?) 

 Dichromorpha viridis (?) 

 Chlcealtis conspersa 

 Stenobothrus curtipennis 

 Alecostethus lineatus 

 Arphia sulphur ea 



" xanthoptera 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata 

 Encoptolophus sordidus (?) 

 Hippiscus phoenicopterus 



" rugosus 



Dissosteira Carolina 

 .Spharagemon bolli 



" wyomingianum 



Trimerotropis maritima 

 Psinidia fenestralis 

 Scirtetica marmorata 

 Schistocerca americana 

 '' damnijica 

 ' ' alutacea 



" rubiginosa 



Hesperotettix brevipennis 

 Dendrotettix quercus 

 Melanoplus scudderi 

 " fasciatus 

 " tribal us 

 ' ' atlanis 

 " femur-rubrum 

 " minor 

 " impudicus 

 " luridus 

 " sto7iei 

 " femoratus 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



Conocephalus caudellianus (?) 

 Microcentrum sp. 

 Orchelimum vulgare 



" glaberrimum 



" erythrocephalum 



" spinulosum 



" pulchellum 



" minor 



Xiphidium fasciatum 

 *' brevipenne 



" stridum 



" saltans 



Atlanticus dorsalis 



" pachynierus 



Melanoplus pundidatus 

 Paroxya floridiana 



" scudderi 

 Scudderia texensis 

 " curvicauda 

 '' furcata 

 " sepientrionalis 

 " truncata 

 A mblycorypha oblongifolia 

 " rotundifolia 



" uhleri 



Conocephalus robustus 

 " triops 



" exiliscanorus (?) 



" lyristes (?) 



The most distinctive Pine Barren species, i.e., those not taken 

 outside of the Pine Barrens, are Hesperotettix brevipennis,^* Dendro- 

 tettix quercus, Melanoplus impudicus, Melanoplus stonei, Paroxya 

 scudderi, Scudderia truncata and Orchelimum erythrocephalum. 



The following are essentially Pine Barren species, that is, have 

 their centre of distribution in the Pine Barrens, but may occur in 

 reduced numbers or in exceptional locations in one or more of the 

 adjoining districts: 



Hippiscus phoenicopterus 



Spharage7non bolli 



" wyomingianum 



Scirtetica marmorata 



Schistocerca damnifica 

 " alutacea 



" rubiginosa 



Melanoplus fasciatus 



' ■' tribulus 



" luridus 



" punctulatus 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (?) 



" pulchellum 



" minor 



In the following list I give those species which appear to be of 

 common occurrence throughout the entire Pine Barrens: 



Orpkulella pelidna 

 Arphia sulphurea 



" xanthoptera 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata 

 Hippiscus phoenicopterus 

 Dissosteira Carolina 

 Spharagemon bolli 



" wyomingianum 



Psinidia fenestraUs 

 Scirtetica marmorata 

 Schistocerca damnifica 

 " alutacea 



Schistocerca rubiginosa 

 Melanoplus scudderi 



' ' fasciatus 



" atlanis 



" luridus 



" femoratus 

 Paroxya scudderi 

 Scudderia curvicauda 



" furcata 

 A mblycorypha oblongifolia 

 Microcentrum sp. 

 Orchelimum erythrocephalum 



1^ Taken once, however, at "Anglesea, " Cape May County, by John B. Smith. 

 31 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Other species regularly found in the Pine Barrens, but either 

 scarce throughout or of only local frequency, include the following: 



Syrhula admirahilis Amblycorypha rotundijolia 

 Eritettix carinatus " uhleri 



Chloealtis conspersa Conocephalus rohustus 



Hippiscus rugosus (?) Orchelimum glaherrimum 

 Hesperotettix hrevipennis " spmulosum 



Dendrotettix quercus " pulchellum 



Melanoplus tribulus " minor 



" feynur-ruhrum^^ Xiphidium brevipenne 

 " i7npudicus " strictum 



" stonei " saltans 



" punctulatus Atlanticus dorsalis 

 Scudderia texensis " pachymerus 



The species in the following list appear from available records to 

 be of only very infrequent or exceptional occurrence in the Pine 

 Barrens, and are evidently stragglers or invaders from the Delaware 

 Valley, Coastal or Cape May Districts. Certain of these forms, 

 however, may occur in fair numbers in places much modified by 

 human angency. 



Mermiria vigilans Schistocerca americana 



Orphulella speciosa ' Melanoplus minor 



Clinocephalus elegaris Paroxya floridiana 



Dichromorpha viridis Conocephalus triops 

 Stenohothrus curtipennis " exiliscanorus 



Mecostethus lineatus " lyristes 



Encoptolophus sordidus " caudellianus 



Trimerotropis maritima Xiphidium fasciatum 



As previously mentioned, we distinguish three types of Pine 

 Barren habitats, each of which is characterized by certain well- 

 defined peculiarities of moisture, substratum and flora. Correlated 

 with these we have equally well-marked differences in the Orthopteran 

 faunule of each habitat. 



The Orthopteran faunule of the Sand Barrens is a markedly 

 xerophilous one, this being especially true of those forms that inhabit 

 bare, open stretches of clear, white sand. In such places the dominant 

 species are the geophilous arenicoles, Scirtetica marmoraia and 

 Psinidia fenestralis, while associated with them are usually smaller, 

 but considerable, numbers of Spharagemon wyomingianum and very 

 rarely a few examples of Trimerotropis maritima. Where the sand 



1' Abundant locally in farming and residential districts, but scarce in typical 

 Pine Barrens. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



has become covered with a low open bUieberry scrub, numerous 

 additional species are of frecjuent occurrence, such as Melanoplus 

 luridus, SpharMgemon bolli, OrphuMla pelidna, Hippisciis phoenicop- 

 terus, Dissosteira Carolina, Melanoplus fasciatus, and M. impudicus. 

 In higher and denser scrub, such as is formed by a mixture of blue- 

 berry bushes and oak saplings, the more strictly arenicolous types 

 become infrequent, while sylvan types become dominant. Among 

 these we may mention as especially frequent the following : Melano- 

 plus luridus, Spharagemon bolli, Schistocerca ruhiginosa, Melanoplus 

 impudicus, Melanoplus scudderi, Melanoplus fasciatus, Scudderia 

 curvicauda and Scudderia Jurcaia. The typical Sand Barrens faunule, 

 taken as a whole, consists of the following species : 



OrphuleUa pelidna Melanoplus scudderi 

 Arphia sulphur ea " fasciatus 



Hippiscus phoenicopferus " tribulus 



Dissosteira Carolina " impudicus 



Spharagemon bolli " luridus 



" wyomingianum " femoratus 



Psinidia fenestralis Scudderia curvicauda 

 Scirtetica marmorata '' furcata 



Schistocerca datnnijica Amblycorypha oblongifolia 



" rubiginosa " rotundifolia 



H esperotettix brevipennis Microcentrum sp. 



Belonging to this faunule, but usually rare and local in distribu- 

 tion, are the following: 



Eritettix carinatus Melanoplus stonei 

 Trimerotropis maritima " punctulatus 



Dendrotettix quercus Orchelimufn minor 



Melanoplus minor Xiphidium brevipenne 



In the more extensive clearings, such, for example, as the fire- 

 breaks along the railroads, where the scrub growth is short and quite 

 open with considerable grassy areas intermixed, a campestral-like 

 modification of the Sand Barren faunule takes place, characterized 

 by the presence of large numbers of species typical of the Coastal 

 District. The more abundant of these apparently secondary species 

 are Melanoplus atlanis, Arphia xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata 

 and Melanoplus femoratus. AVith these are the usual typical Pine 

 Barren species. 



The Peat Bog faunule of the Pine Barrens is usually typified by 

 the following species of Orthoptera: Schistocerca alutacea, Paroxya 

 scudderi, Orchelimum glaberrimum, erythrocephalum and pulchellum. 

 As rare or occasional constituents we may mention Chlcealtis conspersa, 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Stenohothrus curtipennis, Mecostethus lineatus, CUnocephahis elegans, 

 Paroxya floridiana, Orchelimum vulgare, 0. spinulosum and Xiphidium 

 Jasciatuni. Mermiria vigilans I took once in a rather open bog at 

 Belle Plain along the southern edge of the Pine Barrens. All of these 

 species are most frequent in the more open, well-lighted parts of the 

 bogs. In the densely wooded parts they are absent or exceedingly 

 scarce. 



In cleared and cultivated districts a type of faunule occurs which 

 in essential respects resembles the Subcoastal faunule of the Coastal 

 District. This faunule is characterized by the dominance of Melano- 

 plus fcmur-7'ubrum, a grasshopper that is remarkedly exceptional in 

 the less disturbed portions of the Pine Barrens, as Rehn has pointed 

 out. Common associates of this species in the settled parts of the 

 Barrens are Dissosteira Carolina, Orphulella pelidna, Melanoplus 

 atlanis, Arphia xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata and Melanoplus 

 femoratus. Much less frequent and, on the whole, rather local forms 

 appear to be such species as Conocephaliis rohiistus, C. triops, Orcheli- 

 mum vulgare, Xiphidium strictum, Amblycorypha uhleri and Hippiscus 

 rugosus. This faunule is most typically represented in old and 

 neglected fields well overrun with weedy vegetation. 



IV (c). The Middle District or Delaware Valley. 



As already mentioned, I am not disposed to consider the Middle 

 District of the Coastal Plain as having the same faunal value as the 

 Coastal and Pine Barren Districts. It contains no distinctive species 

 of Orthoptera, its claim to recognition as a separate Orthopteran 

 faunal province being based solely upon the intermingling of 

 faunules which in the other districts rarely or never intermingle 

 and the absence of certain of the more distinctive Pine Barren types. 



The Middle District includes all that part of New Jersey which 

 lies south of the fall-line and west and north of the Delaware-Atlantic 

 Divide, together with the more hilly districts of northern Coastal 

 Plain New Jersey and a narrow strip of relatively low land in Pennsyl- 

 vania bordering the Delaware River south of Trenton. As Stone 

 has shown, this part of Pennsylvania has many distinctive Coastal 

 Plain plants. A similar agreement is to be seen in the Orthoptera, 

 especially in those inhabiting the marshes. 



This strip of Coastal Plain country in Pennsylvania has so many 

 characteristics differentiating it from the more typical Coastal Plain 

 as exemplified in New Jersey that it requires separate consideration. 

 It represents a series of successive flood-plains of the Delaware River, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



each of which is separated from the next succeeding one by a low 

 escarpment or terrace. The youngest of these is practically on a 

 level with the river and forms a strip of marshland varying in width 

 from a fraction of a mile to three or four miles. The most typical 

 representative of this level is the well-known Tinicum Marshes 

 immediately south of Philadelphia. In physiographic and floristic 

 features these marshes bear a close resemblance to the undrained, 

 open bottomlands of the Central States. Except where ditched 

 and diked, these marshes are permanently covered with water backed 

 up by the tide. They support a luxuriant growth of hydrophytic 

 grisses and sedges. The soil is a rich, dark muck, the dark color 

 being due to the decay of the marsh vegetation. 



Back of these river marshes is a terrace, about forty feet in height, 

 which marks the border of a level tract corresponding to an earlier 

 stage of deposition (Cape May Stage). A still earlier stage is repre- 

 sented by a second terrace a mile or two further away from the river 

 (Pensauken Stage). This extends back to the escarpment that 

 marks the position of the fall-line. The deposits forming these 

 terraces are alluvial in origin and consist of light-colored gravels and 

 clay loams essentially similar in appearance and texture to the 

 typical Piedmont soils. The soil is quite fertile and is extensively 

 cultivated, so that the region consists mostly of open fields and 

 pastures. 



The Orthoptera of these upland terraces are, with two exceptions, 

 common Piedmont types, so that from the standpoint of their grass- 

 hopper fauna these terraces are a part of the Piedmont. The two 

 exceptions are Orphulella pelidna and Melanoplus differentialis, the 

 former of which I have found to be locally quite frequent along the 

 edge of the lower terrace, as at Bartram's Gardens, but it is not 

 quite as common or as evenly distributed as its congener, 0. speciosa, 

 which is a typical Piedmont species. Melanoplus differetitialis is in 

 a class by itself. It appears to have been introduced from the West. 

 It is now abundant in the low lands bordering the Delaware River 

 and frequently migrates from them to the neighboring uplands. 



One Piedmont species has never, so far as I am aware, been recorded 

 from these terraces. I refer to Hippiscus tuberculatus. 



In the following list I give the species of grasshoppers, which, so 

 far as known, occur on these terrace lands: 



Dichromorpha viridis Arphia sulphur ea 



Orphulella speciosa " xanthoptera 



" pelidna Chortophaga viridifasciata 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Encoptolophus sordidus Melanoplus femoratus 



Dissosteira Carolina Conocephalus triops 



Melanoplus atlanis Orchelirnum vulgar e 



" femur-ruhrum Xiphidium fasciatum 

 " minor *' brevipenne 



" differentialis 



This list is doubtless incomplete. Further examination of the 

 country would probably show the presence of other typical or common 

 Piedmont forms not here listed. 



The river marshes are characterized by a fauna which in many 

 respects approximates that typical of the wet lands of the Coastal 

 Plain, but which retains a strong Piedmont cast. In southeastern 

 Pennsylvania these marshes have yielded a rich Orthopteran fauna 

 consisting of the following species: 



Dichromorpha viridis Paroxya floridiana 



Orphidella speciosa Scudderia texensis 



" pelidna " curvicauda 



Stenohothrus curtipennis Amblycorypha rotundifolia^^ 



Mecostethus lineatus Conocephalus robustus 



Arphia xanthoptera " triops 



Chortophaga viridifasciata " nebrascensis 



Encoptolophus sordidus « " palustris 



Dissosteira Carolina Orchelirnum vulgare 



Schistocerca aliitacea^^ " spinulosum 



Melanoplus atlanis Xiphidium fasciatum 



" femur-rubrum " saltans^'^ 



" minor " brevipenne 



" differentialis " strictum 

 " femoratus 



In this list two minor groups are represented, i.e., that charac- 

 teristic of dry ground, such as occurs on the low elevations which 

 occur here and there on the marshes, and that of the marshes proper. 

 The former includes such species as Orjjhulella speciosa, 0. pelidna, 

 Arphia xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Encoptolophus sordidus, 

 Dissosteira Carolina, Melanoplus atlanis, M. minor, Conocephalus 

 robustus, and Xiphidium strictum. The second group includes 

 Stenobothrus curtipennis, Mecostethus lineatus, Paroxya floridiana, 

 Conocephalus nebrascensis, C. palustris and Orchelirnum spimdosum. 

 The remaining species occur indifferently in both kinds of habitat, 

 though certain of them may exhil)it a stronger preference for one 

 of the habitats as compared with the other. 



" Apparently very unusual, but represented by specimens in the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



The Coastal Plain affinities of these lowlands is shown in the 

 presence of such Orthoptera as Paroxya Jloridiana, Conocephalus 

 robustus, C. nebrasceiisis and C. palustris, and in the comparative 

 abundance of such forms as Orphulella pelidna and Scudderia texensis. 

 On the other hand, the influence of the Piedmont is evidenced by the 

 abundance of species like Dichromorpha viridis, Orphulella speciosa, 

 Stenohothrus curtipennis and Encoptolophus sordidus. 



In this narrow strip of Coastal Plain country the most abundant 

 grasshopper is Melanopliis femur-ruhrum. It far outnumbers all 

 the other species and is especially abundant in the low humid tracts 

 adjoining the river marshes. Less common, but quite frequent 

 species are Dichromorpha viridis, Stenohothrus curtipennis, Dissosteira 

 Carolina, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Encoptolophus sordidus, Orphu- 

 lella speciosa, Orchelimum vulgare, Melanoplus differentialis, M. 

 femoratus, Xiphidium fasciatum, Orchelimum spinulosum, Xiphidium 

 strictum, X. hrevipenne and Arphia xanthoptera. Other forms of 

 not uncommon occurrence are Orphulella pelidna, which in spots 

 may be a close rival of its congener, 0. speciosa, Conocephalus robustus, 

 C. triops, and Scudderia texensis. The remaining species are more 

 or less infrequent or local in distribution. 



Further south at Newcastle, Delaware, the Coastal Plain com- 

 ponent of the fauna becomes more prominent, due to the influx of 

 the more strictly Coastal types, such as Tryxalis brevicornis, Syrbula 

 admirahilis and Orchelimum herbaceum. My study at this locality 

 was very superficial, but during a few hours' collecting there I noted 

 the following species: 



Tryxalis brevicornis "* Melanoplus differentialis 



Syrbula admirahilis " femoratus 



Dichromorpha viridis Paroxya floridiana 



Orphulella speciosa Scudderia texensis 



" pelidna Conocephalus triops 



Arphia xanthoptera Orchelimum herbaceum 



Dissosteira Carolina Xiphidium fasciatum 

 Melanoplus femur-rubrum 



East of the Delaware River in New Jersey the Middle District 

 forms a zone varying between 10 and 25 miles in width. The under- 

 lying geological formations are unconsolidated sediments of sand, 

 clay and glauconitic marls with occasional shell beds belonging to 

 the Cretaceous and Miocene Ages, but, except where they have been 

 exposed by stream erosion, these are everywhere covered by a sheet 

 of Pleistocene sand and gravel. Close to the Delaware- Atlantic 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



divide the land possesses a moderate amount of relief; here the 

 streams have cut ravines of from 50 to 100 feet in depth. Near the 

 Delaware, however, the surface is an almost level plain with the 

 streams meandering sluggishly through wide tidal mud-flats. In 

 their upper courses there is sufficient fall to enable the streams to 

 effect fairly adequate drainage, so that extensive inland bogs com- 

 parable to those at the heads of the Pine Barren streams, are excep- 

 tional. In their lower reaches the streams are so near tide level 

 that drainage is extremely imperfect and, as a result, the low flats 

 bordering the streams are kept in a state of perpetual saturation. 



The soils of the Middle District are much more varied than are 

 those of the other subdivisions of the Coastal Plain. The most 

 frequent is the Norfolk sand which occurs at practically all levels. 

 As a rule, it is thinner than in the Pine Barrens and the resultant 

 proximity to the water-table probably accounts for the somewhat 

 less xerophytic aspect of the vegetation which in West Jersey grows 

 on this type of soil. At higher elevations, where Norfolk sand is 

 naturally drier, it is not readily cultivable and is accordingly mostly 

 forested, the dominant tree growth consisting of pines {Pinus 

 virginiana and rigida), oaks {Quercus alba, stellata, prinus, marylandica 

 and ilicifolia) and hickories (Hichoria alba and glabra). At lower 

 levels, as in the immediate vicinity of the Delaware River, where the 

 surface of the sand approaches close to tide level, conditions obtain 

 similar to those of the Coastal Strip, The sand here is quite product- 

 ive, and consequently most of the country is cleared and used for 

 farming purposes. 



Locally there are extensive tracts of loamy soils developed in 

 West Jersey which in many respects closely ai)proach the Piedmont 

 soils. The more important of these are the CoUington sandy loam 

 and the Sassafras loam. The former is derived from the green sand 

 or glauconitic marls of the Cretaceous series. This material is 

 highly retentive of moisture and is also extremely rich in available 

 plant-foods. The CoUington sandy loam is largely confined to the 

 vicinity of the streams along which the greensand layers have been 

 exposed by erosion. Owing to its richness, nearly all areas of this 

 soil are under cultivation; the forests persisting only on the steeper 

 slopes along the streams. The vegetation is decidedly mesophytic 

 in aspect, the usual tree growth consisting of white, black and red 

 oaks, hickories, chestnut, beech, tulip-trees, red cedar, sweet gum, 

 red maple and dogwood. 



The Sassafras loam is typically represented in the vicinity of 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



475 



Bridgcton. As analyzed by the Bureau of Soils, it is remarkable for 

 its low sand content (9-25%) and high percentage of silt (55-75%) 

 and clay (10-15%). It is a highly fertile soil and is almost entirely 

 under cultivation. 



The grasshopper fauna of the New Jersey portion of the Middle 

 District includes the following species: 



The dominant and more uniformly distributed types in the Middle 

 District are the species belonging to the Coastal fauna, but in the 

 northern half these are associated with a considerable number of 

 typical Piedmont species, such as Dichromorpha viridis, Stenobothrus 

 curtipennis and Encoptolophus sordidus. All three of these are com- 



1^ Not, so far as I am aware, actually recorded from the Middle District, but 

 occurrence highly probable. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fJune, 



mon in the upper portions of the district, though, on the whole, 

 considerably less frequent than in the Piedmont Region. Orphulella 

 speciosa has been taken in the Middle District, but appears to be 

 exceedingly scarce, in marked contrast to its abundance on the west 

 shores of the Delaware. During four seasons' collecting I took only 

 two specimens. The Piedmont component of the fauna gradually 

 thins out as one goes southward. Encoptolophus sordidus I have not 

 taken south of Laurel Springs, Camden County, while the southern 

 limits of Dichromorpha viridis are, according to my observations, in 

 the vicinity of Bridgeton, Cumberland County. Stenohothrus 

 curtipennis extends into the Cape May Peninsula, but is there of 

 very local occurrence. 



The most abundant grasshopper is Melanoplus femur-ruhrum. 

 Other forms which appear to be of common occurrence are Orphu- 

 lella pelidna, Melanoplus atlanis, Dissosteira Carolina, Chortophaga 

 viridifasciata, Arphia xanthoptera, Orchelimum vidgare, Melanoplus 

 femoratus, Psinidia fenestralis, Xiphidium fasciatum, Xiphidium 

 strictiwi, Paroxya floridiana, Melanoplus differentialis (locally on the 

 Delaware below Gloucester), Encoptolophus sordidus (in the northern 

 half only), Xiphidium hrevipenne, and Arphia sulphurea. Somewhat 

 less frequent, but of not uncommon occurrence, are Syrbula admira- 

 hilis, Melanoplus scudderi, Scudderia texensis, curvicauda and furcata, 

 Conocephalus robustus, C. triops, Spharagemon bolli, Hippiscus 

 rugosus, Dichromorpha viridis (northern section only) and Steno- 

 bothrus curtipennis (frequent, but somewhat local, in northern 

 section, exceptional in southern section). The remaining species 

 are either rare or, if frequent, only under exceptional circumstances. 



Locally, where there are considerable areas of nearly pure sand of 

 moderately high elevation, conditions prevail closely resembling those 

 of the Pine Barrens. An isolated patch of this kind occurs just west 

 of Jericho, Cumberland County (shown in pink on the map accom- 

 panying the State report on insects). In such places the Orthoptera 

 have a strong Pine Barren aspect. The prevailing species are 

 Scirtetica marmorata, Melanoplus luridus, Psinidia fenestralis, Sphar- 

 agemon bolli, Spharagemon wyomingiana, Orphidella pelidna, Arphia 

 sulphurea, Hippiscus phoenicopterus and Schistocerca rubiginosa. 

 With these arc other species, such as Dissosteira Carolina, Melanoplus 

 atlanis, Arphia xanthoptera, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Schistocerca 

 dnmnifica, Melanoplus scudderi, M. femoratus, M. femur-rubrum (a 

 minor constituent of this association), Syrbula admirabiUs, Scudderia 

 curvicauda and furcata and Xiphidium brevipenne. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



On those areas where the dominant soil is a loam, as in the "marl- 

 belt" and the Sassafras loam district, the Orthoptera have a pro- 

 nounced mesophilous aspect, the fauna closely resembling that of 

 the Piedmont Region. This faunule is dominated by Melanoplus 

 femur-rubnon, with which are usually associated Dissesteira Carolina, 

 Melanoplus femoratus, Arphia xanthoptera, Orphulella pelidna, 

 Dichromorpha viridis, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Encoptolophus sordi- 

 dus and Orchelimum vulgare. 



IV (rf). The Cape May District. 



This, according to Stone, includes the Cape May Peninsula south 

 of the Great Cedar Swamp. Floristically, the district is charac- 

 terized by the presence of a considerable number of Lower Austral 

 types which do not extend north of the district. In the Orthopteran 

 fauna this distinction is not so pronounced, the only species which 

 are peculiar to the region or extend but a short distance beyond it 

 being Mermiria vigilans and Conocephalus fuscostriatus. Negatively, 

 the district is characterized by the absence or relative scarcity of 

 certain Middle District and Pine Barren species. Of Middle District 

 species the following are as yet unknown from the Cape May Penin- 

 sula: Dichromorpha viridis, Encoptolophus sordidus, Melanoplus 

 differ entialis and Atlanticus dorsalis; Orphidella speciosa and Steno- 

 bothrus curtipennis occur, but are local and usually quite rare. 



Of typical Pine Barren species there appear to be no records of the 

 existence of the following species in the Cape May Peninsula, though 

 some of them may occur as far south as the southern edge of the 

 Great Cedar Swamp, as at Sea Isle Junction, where I have taken 

 several species which I have not been able to find elsewhere in the 

 Peninsula : 



Spharagemon ivyomingianum Melanoplus punctulatus 



Dendrotettix quercus Paroxya scudderi^^ 



Melanoplus impudicus Orchelimum eryihrocep>halum'^^ 

 " tribulus^^ " pulchellum^^ 



" fasciatus^^ " minor^^ 



" stonei Atlanticus dorsalis 



I have never been able to find Hesperotettix brevipennis south of 

 the Great Cedar Swamp, but there is a single female in the Academy 

 collection taken by John B. Smith at "Anglesea." 



The following list includes all the species of Acrididae (exclusive 



^* Taken at Sea Isle Junction. 




478 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



of Tettiginae) and Locustidse (exclusive of Gryllacrinse and Stenopel- 

 matina?) known to me to occur in the district : 



In the Cape May Peninsula two subdivisions, each with certain 

 distinctive physiographic and biotic features, can usually be dis- 

 tinguished. One of these, which in every respect agrees with the 

 Coastal District as already described, includes the salt marshes, the 

 low forelands just inside of the salt marshes and the beaches. The 

 other subdivision we may speak of as the Interior District. This 

 in its general aspect closely resembles the true Pine Barrens, though 

 differing from the latter in some important respects. It consists 

 of a fiat sandy plain, which, except where cleared by human agency, 

 is covered with a practically continuous stretch of oak and pine 

 forest. 



The characteristics of the Coastal District, so far as they come 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



within the scope of this article, have already been considered. In 

 the Cape May region the Coastal District is represented by a narrow 

 strip along the ocean, locally known as "The Seaside," and a similar 

 strip along the shore of Delaware Bay, known as "The Bayside." 

 Both are alike in essential respects, although the beaches are absent 

 or exceptional on the bayside. North of Wildwood Junction the 

 seaside and bayside are entirely separated by the wooded interior, 

 but south of that point, as noted by Stone, the two converge and 

 unite to form a continuous belt of Coastal District country extending 

 clear across the lower third of the peninsula. 



The Interior District, as previously mentioned, partakes of the 

 nature of the Pine Barrens. The soil is typically a coarse sand of 

 the Norfolk type. It is similar apparently to the sands of the Pine 

 Barrens, but differs in its usually nlore humid condition and its 

 higher content of organic matter, a state of affairs doubtless due to 

 the extremely low elevation (rarely over 25 feet above sea-level) and 

 consequent proximity of the surface to underground water. The tree 

 growth consists predominantly of pitch pine (Pinus rigida), white 

 oak {Quercus alba), post oak (Q. stellata) and pig-nut hickory {Hichoria 

 glabra); of less frequent occurrence are Jersey pine (P. virginiana), 

 black oak (Q. velutina), Spanish oak {Q. triloba), black-jack (Q. mary- 

 landica), sassafras {Sassafras sassafras) and holly (Ilex opaca). 



The bogs of the Interior in their general appearance closely resemble 

 those of the Pine Barrens, but, with a few exceptions in the northern- 

 most part of the district, differ from the latter in the conspicuous 

 absence of the white cedar (Chamcecyparis thyoides). The usual 

 tree growth consists of red maple (Acer rubriim), sour-gum (Nyssa 

 sylvatica), magnolia (M. virginiana), sweet-gum {Liquidamber 

 styraciflua) , Spanish oak {Q. triloba) and willow oak {Q. phellos). 

 The lower scrub growth consists largely of Clethra alnifolia and Azalea 

 viscosa. In clearings the dominant plants are Woodwardia virginica, 

 Juncus (tall species, probably canadensis) and sedges (Eriophorum 

 virginicum and Rhynchospora alba); with these are asseciated lesser 

 numbers of such plants, as Lilium superbum, Aletris farinosa, Ble- 

 phariglottis blephariglottis, Pogonia ophioglossoides, Drosera longifolia, 

 Polygala lutea, P. cruciata, Rhexia virginiana, R. mariana, Asclepias 

 pulchra and Oxypolis rigidior. 



South of Wildwood Junction the character of the vegetation under- 

 goes a gradual change, assuming more the aspect of the vegetation 

 which is characteristic of the lowland woods of the Delaware Valley 

 and Coastal District. The pitch pine becomes a less important 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



constituent of the flora, though not uncommon in spots throughout 

 the whole lower part of the peninsula. 



Orthoptera, such as we are concerned with in this article, occur 

 in numbers only in those parts of the Interior District where more or 

 less extensive clearings exist in the otherwise continuous forests. 

 Where the clearings are small and entirely surrounded or bordered 

 by the woods, a sylvan type of fauna obtains similar in facies to that 

 of the Pine Barrens, but lacking some of the more distinctive species 

 of the latter,, such as Spharagemon wyomingianum, Melanoplus 

 fasciatus and impudicus and Orchelimuyn erythrocephalum. This 

 faunule is best developed in the northern section of the district; 

 in the southern section it appears to be only locally represented. 



The species usually associated with the dry pine and oak woods 

 are the following: 



Orphulella pelidna Schistocerca rubiginosa 



Arphia sulphur ea Melanoplus scudderi 

 Hippiscus phoenicopterus " luridus 



Spharagemon bolli Scudderia curvicauda 

 Psinidia jenestralis " furcata 



Scirtetica marmorata Amblycorypha oblongifolia 



Schistocerca damnifica Microcentrum sp. 



The bogs are characterized by the presence of the following: 



Schistocerca alutacea Scudderia furcata 



Scudderia curvicauda 



In the extreme southern portion of the peninsula some of the 

 species here listed are apparently only locally represented. This 

 is especially the case with the more characteristic Pine Barren forms, 

 such as Scirtetica marmorata, Melanoplus luridus and Schistocerca 

 alutacea and rubiginosa, all of which are abundant in the northern 

 section, but are of only exceptional occurrence in the southern 

 section. Their scarcity is evidently correlated with the absence of 

 typical Pine Barren conditions. 



In the Interior District removal of the forest on any extensive 

 scale and the utilization of the land for agricultural purposes is 

 followed by changes in the character of the fauna and flora similar 

 to those taking place under like conditions in the Pine Barrens. 

 The more exclusively sylvan species disappear and their place is taken 

 by campestral types like those of the neighboring Coastal District. 

 I have given especial attention to this matter in the vicinity of South 

 Seaville, where the country adjoining the road connecting the seaside 

 with the baysidejhas been largely cleared and placed under cultiva- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



tion. In this region neglected fields are occupied by a weed vegeta- 

 tion similar to that occurring in similar situations in the Coastal 

 Strip, and this is correlated with the presence of similar species of 

 Orthoptera, the more important species being the following: 



Syrhula admirabilis Melanoplus femur-riihrum 

 Orphulella pelidna " femoratus 



Arphia xanthoptera Scudderia curvicauda 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata " furcata 



Hippiscus rugosus Amblycorypha uhleri 



Dissosteira Carolina Conocephalus rohustus 

 Psinidia fenestralis (local, on bare " triops 



sandy spots) Orchelimum vulgare 



Melayioplus atlanis Xiphidium strictum 



Summary. 



1. In the region covered by eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 two strikingly different types of Orthopteran faunas are exemplified, 

 namely, a Transition fauna in eastern Pennsylvania and northern 

 New Jersey and an Upper Austral fauna in southern New J-ersey. 



2. In this region the Transition fauna coincides in distribution 

 with the Appalachian Mountain System and the Piedmont Plateau; 

 the Upper Austral fauna with the Coastal Plain. 



3. It is not possible with the data at present available to give a 

 complete causal explanation of the observed facts of distribution as 

 exemplified by the Orthoptera of this region. 



4. Atmospheric temperature alone does not afford a satisfactory 

 explanation of the facts of distribution; more pertinent is the tem- 

 perature of the medium in which or on which the organism, or any 

 stage of the organism, dwells. The areal distribution of an organism 

 is probably a resultant of the interaction of a number of factors and 

 not of any one single factor. 



5. In the region included in this study the striking differences 

 between the biotas of the Piedmont Plateau and the Coastal Plain 

 are closely correlated with equally striking differences in topography, 

 drainage and soils. 



6. The Piedmont Plateau is a region of considerable elevation and 

 good drainage. Permanently wet areas constitute a relatively insig- 

 nificant feature of the region. 



7. The Coastal Plain is a region of very slight elevation and usually 

 poor drainage. Permanently wet areas constitute highly important 

 physiographic features of the region. 



8. The soils of the Piedmont Plateau are loams of residual origin. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



They are usually rich in moisture and available plant-food ele- 

 ments. 



9. The soils of the Coastal Plain are prevailingly relatively coarse 

 sands of detrital origin. They are frequently deficient in moisture 

 and available plant-food elements. 



10. From an Orthopteran faunistic standpoint, four primary 

 subdivisions are recognizable in the eastern Pennsylvania-New Jersey 

 region, namely, Appalachian, Piedmont, Coastal and Pine Barren. The 

 first two are subdivisions of the Transition Zone, the last two of the 

 Coastal Plain. Each may be regarded as a local centre of dispersal. 



11. From the same standpoint, the Highlands, the Middle District 

 and the Cape May Peninsula are to be considered as of secondary 

 value, each representing a sort of tension zone in which there is an 

 intermingling, overlapping or interdigitation of species from adjoining 

 primary districts. 



12. The Orthopteran fauna of the Appalachian District has never 

 been adequately studied from a faunistic standpoint. The available 

 data indicate that it is fundamentally Piedmont in type with the 

 addition of a number of distinctively northern (boreal) species. 



13. The Orthopteran fauna of the Highlands has also never been 

 adequately studied. The available evidence indicates that it is 

 thoroughly Piedmont in type with a few stragglers from the Appala- 

 chian District. 



14. The Orthopteran fauna of the Piedmont Plateau is predomi- 

 nantly mesophilous. This is correlated with the presence of a 

 dominant mesophytic type of vegetation. 



15. The Orthopteran ecological associations of the Piedmont 

 Plateau are usually not clearly delimited. In a general way three 

 such groups correlated with the relative moisture content of the 

 habitat may be recognized. These are the mesophilous, xerophilous 

 and hygrophilous associations. Each of these may exhibit an open- 

 country or campestral phase and a woodland or sylvan phase. 



16. The mesophilous association is characteristic of rich loamy 

 soils and a luxuriant vegetation, of which the dominant members are 

 bright green, succulent, sod-forming grasses. 



17. The xerophilous association of the Piedmont Plateau consists 

 exclusively of the humicolous subdivision; arenicolous and saxi- 

 colous species are lacking owing to the absence of pure sand and the 

 scarcity of bare rock surfaces. This association typically occurs on 

 uplands or hillsides where the soil is unsuited for agricultural purposes. 

 The associated vegetation is of a mildly xerophytic tj^'pe. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



18. The hygrophilous association of the Piedmont Plateau is of 

 relatively subordinate importance owing to the limited extent of 

 permanently moist lands. It is not sharply separable from the 

 dominant mesophilous association. It occurs in stream meadows 

 and small wet areas about springs or in seepage depressions. The 

 associated vegetation consists of hydrophytes and mesophytes with 

 hydrophytic tendencies. 



19. In each of these associations the dominant phase in the Pied- 

 mont Plateau region is the campestral. The sylvan constitutes a 

 relatively insignificant part of the fauna. The removal of the forests 

 and the utilization of the land for farming purposes evidently favor 

 the campestral types, while they restrict the more exclusively sylvan 

 types. 



20. The Orthopteran fauna of the Coastal Plain consists of two 

 widely diverse, but important, constituent associations. One of 

 these is a xerophilous association characteristic of the upland, the 

 other a hygrophilous association characteristic of wet or humid areas. 

 Besides these there is a mesophilous association which, however, is 

 of relatively minor importance. 



21. In contrast with their indefinite character in the Piedmont, 

 the Orthopteran ecological groups of the Coastal Plain are usually 

 quite clearly defined. 



22. The xerophilous association of the Coastal Plain includes both 

 arenicolous and humicolous species. It is typically developed on 

 dry, sandy soils and is associated with a more or less xerophytic type 

 of vegetation. 



23. The hygrophilous association of the Coastal Plain is highly 

 developed. It shows three different types in accordance with the 

 nature of the respective environments. These are: (1) the fresh- 

 water-marsh type, (2) the maritime or salt-marsh type, and (3) the 

 peat-bog type. They are associated with hydrophytic (fresh-marsh 

 type) or zerophytic (salt-marsh and peat-bog types) types of vegetation. 



24. The mesophilous association of the Coastal Plain is typical 

 of rich, loamy soils and is best represented in the productive farming 

 districts of the Middle District. This association tends to invade 

 other districts when these are placed under cultivation. 



25. Primary faunistic subdivisions, or centres of dispersal, of the 

 Coastal Plain are the Coastal and Pine Barren districts; secondary 

 subdivisions, or zones of tension, are the Middle District and Cape 

 May Peninsula. The latter is a minor centre of dispersal for a 

 limited number of southern Orthoptera. 



32 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



26. The Coastal faunule is composed of four associations, namely, 

 (a) Subcoastal, (b) Littoral, (c) Submaritime and (d) Maritime. 



27. The Subcoastal association is characteristic of the upland 

 portions of the Coastal Strip and is associated with a sandy soil, 

 moderate humidity, open campestral country and a mildly xerophytic 

 type of vegetation. The dominant Orthoptera are humicolous 

 xerophiles of the campestral phase, though arenicoles may be locally 

 common. This at the present time appears to be the dominant 

 Orthopteran association of the Coastal Plain. It tends to spread 

 inland with the removal of the forests and there displace the Pine 

 Barren types. 



28. The Littoral association is characteristic of the sea-beaches. 

 It is associated with wind-drifted sands and a highly xerophytic 

 type of vegetation. A fairly definite zonation in the distribution 

 of the Orthoptera can be recognized, the outer or frontal dunes being 

 characterized by arenicoles, the leeward dunes by humicoles. Open 

 grass formations prevail on the frontal dunes, dense thickets on the 

 leeward dunes. 



29. Human occupation of the beaches is evidently effecting far- 

 reaching changes in the composition of the beach fauna and flora. 

 A number of Subcoastal Orthoptera appear to have been introduced 

 directly or indirectly through human agency. 



30. The Submaritime association is a somewhat modified repre- 

 sentative of the fresh-water marsh group and is characteristic of the 

 low lands adjoining the salt marshes. It is associated with a muck 

 soil, abundant moisture and a mixed type of vegetation varying 

 from hydrophytes to xerophytes according to location, but con- 

 sisting mostly of the former. 



31. The Maritime association is characteristic of the salt marshes. 

 It is associated with a soil saturated with water and organic debris 

 and with a highly halophytic type of vegetation. 



32. The Pine Barren faunule is fundamentally a sylvan group, 

 divisible into a Sand Barren (Pine Barren in the narrower sense) 

 association and a Peat Bog (Cedar Swamp) association. In cultivated 

 areas the sylvicoles are replaced by a campestral association cor- 

 responding in essential features to the Subcoastal association of the 

 Coastal District. 



33. The Sand Barren association is a distinctively xerophilous 

 group and includes both arenicoles and humicoles, the former pre- 

 vailing on exposed patches of sand, the latter in the vegetation. 

 It is associated with a sandy soil, low humidity, forested country 

 and a strongly xerophytic type of vegetation. 




1914. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



34. The Peat Bog association is a hygrophilous group associated 

 with a peaty substratum, abundant moisture, forested surroundings 

 and a prevailingly xerophytic type of vegetation. 



35. The claim of the Middle District to recognition as a distinct 

 Orthopteran faunistic subdivision of the Coastal Plain rests solely 

 upon the intermingling and overlapping of faunules from the adjoin- 

 ing centres of dispersal. Certain characteristic Piedmont species 

 are entirely or almost entirely limited to this part of the Coastal Plain. 



36. The Middle District includes a narrow strip of relatively low 

 land adjoining the Delaware River in southeastern Pennsylvania. 

 Faunistically, this shows considerable differences from the typical 

 Middle District as represented in west Jersey. 



37. The Orthopteran faunule of the Pennsylvania subdivision of 

 the Middle District is essentially a Piedmont fauna with which is 

 intermixed a minor constituent of Coastal Plain origin. The latter 

 is best represented in the river marshes. 



38. In the Middle District of west Jersey the dominant faunule 

 is the Coastal faunule, the Piedmont faunule being a decidedly minor 

 constituent of the Orthopteran fauna. The Pine Barren faunule 

 is only locally represented. 



39. The Piedmont types are frequent in the northern half of the 

 Middle District, but disappear rapidly in the southern section. 

 They are typically associated with the presence of loam soils, a 

 moderate supply of moisture and mesophytic vegetation. 



40. The Cape May District includes representatives of two 

 faunules. One, corresponding to the Coastal faunule, characterizes 

 the two sides of the Peninsula and its entire lower third; the other, 

 representing a southward extension of part of the Pine Barren 

 faunule, occupies the interior districts of the northern section. 



42. The Interior Orthopteran association of the Cape May Dis- 

 trict is a typical sylvan group. Clearing of the country and its 

 conversion into farm lands is accompanied by a disappearance of 

 the sylvan types and an invasion of the campestral Subcoastal 

 association. 



Annotated List of Species.'^ 



TRYXALIS Fabr. 

 T. brevicornis Johann. 



General Range. — Southern Ontario and Long Island to southern 



" In view of the more or less unsettled state of taxonomio nomenclature at 

 the present time, 1 have chosen to designate the speaies by the name^ which have 

 been in current use during the last decade rather than those which belong to 

 them according to the rule of priority. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Florida, west to Texas and eastern Nebraska, typically an Austral 

 species; also in Central and South America. 



Local Distribution. — Very rare or accidental in the Piedmont 

 Plateau; frequent, but more or less local in the Middle and Coastal 

 Districts of the Coastal Plain, apparently most abundant in the lower 

 Delaware Valley. 



Ecological Distribution. — Largely a Submaritime species, 

 being especially frequent in the patches of Scirpus americanus along 

 the borders of the salt marshes, in smaller numbers extending a short 

 distance inland along tidal streams. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Middle District. — Newcastle, Del. (Fox). 



Jamesburg (Johnson) ; Delair (N. J. Coll.) ; Lucaston (Daecke) ; 

 Almonesson (Wenzel); Canton (Fox); Dorchester (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Ocean View (Fox) ; Angle- 

 sea (N. J. Coll.) ; Cold Spring (Long, Fox) ; Cape May Point (Fox) ; 

 Goshen (Fox); Dennisville (Davis). 



PSETJDOPOMALA Morse. 

 P. brachyptera Scudd. 



General Range. — ^New England States to Florida, west to 

 Minnesota and Nebraska, most frequent in the northern States, 

 apparently exceptional south of the Middle Atlantic States. 



Local Distribution. — Usually quite rare and local in both the 

 Piedmont Plateau and Coastal Plain, exceptionally frequent locally. 

 No records from the Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — Rather variable in its habitat prefer- 

 ences, frequenting dry, scrubby areas, usually in sylvan surroundings 

 in inland localities, but along the coast occurring in the Submaritime 

 zone, where it is partial to the Iva oraria fringes along the edge of the 

 salt marshes, occasionally spreading to scrubby areas on the adjoining 

 upland. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Fort Lee, N. J. (Beutenmuller). 



Williamson's School, Delaware Co., Pa., on serpentine barren 

 (Long); Fern Hill, Chester Co., Pa., on serpentine, exceptionally 

 common (Hebard and Rehn). 



Middle District. — Clementon, N. J., in dry, sandy oak and pine 

 barren (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, one specimen taken on sandy 

 upland (Subcoastal) ; another in Submaritime zone along the edge 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



of the salt marsh (Fox) ; Goshen, several males taken or observed 

 in Iva oraria and Scirpus americanus along the edge of the salt 

 marsh (Fox). 



MEBMIBIA Stal. 

 M. vigilans Scudd. 



General Range. — Southern New Jersey to Florida near the 

 coast. 



Local Distribution. — Not recorded outside of Cape May County^ 

 usually rare and local, most frequent at the extreme southern ex- 

 tremity of the peninsula, apparently very exceptional in the upper 

 part of the county, typically found in the immediate proximity of 

 the coast, but occasionally occurring a short distance inland. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically a member of the Sub- 

 maritime association, frequenting the tall sedges and associated 

 thickets along the borders of the salt marshes, rarely occurring 

 inland in open bogs of Pine Barren aspect. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens (?). — Belle Plain, Cape May Co., in a bog containing 

 a mixture of Middle District (or Coastal) and Pine Barren plants 

 {Acer ruhnini, Betula populifolia, Lobelia canhyi, Sahatia lanceolaia, 

 Spirea tomentosa) (Fox). 



Coastal District.— Ocean City (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Anglesea 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Cape May (N. J. St. Mus. Rep., Fox); Cape 

 May Point (Fox). 



SYRBULA Stal. 

 S. admirabilis Uhl. 



General Range. — New Jersey to Florida, west to northern 

 Indiana, Illinois, Kansas and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the Coastal Plain, most 

 frequent in the lower Middle District and Coastal Strip ; less frequent 

 and apparently more or less local in the Pine Barrens. Absent on 

 the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Adapted to a rather wide range of 

 conditions, but occurring most abundantly in dry grasslands on 

 sandy soils, less frequent apparently in open woodland scrub. Typi- 

 cally a member of the Subcoastal association, being frequent in old 

 fields in the Coastal Strip and lower Delaware Valley and in similar 

 situations in the interior of the Cape May Peninsula. In the Pine 

 Barrens it appears to be more common in the vicinity of human 

 habitations than in the more remote and typical portions. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Newcastle, Del. (Fox). 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Washington Park (Fox) ; North Woodbury (Viereck) ; Almonesson 

 (Fox); Blackwood (Fox); Laurel Springs (Fox); Clementon (Fox); 

 Jericho (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Taunton (Stone); Clementon (Fox); Stafford's 

 Forge (Rehn); West Creek (Rehn); Atsion (Hebard); Parkdale 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Manumuskin (Daecke, Fox); Belle Plain 

 (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); head of Tuckahoe River (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Petersburg (Fox); Ocean View (Fox); Cape 

 May (Daecke); Cape May Point (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox); South Seaville 

 (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Clermont (Fox). 



EEITETTIX Bruner. 

 E. carinatus Scudd. (= Simplex Scudd.). 



General Range. — New England to Maryland and southern New 

 Jersey, south in the mountains to northern Alabama. 



Local Distribution. — Very local and usually rather scarce, 

 occurring in both the Piedmont Region and the Coastal Plain. Not 

 positively recorded from the Middle District and doubtless absent 

 from the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Apparently a humicolous xerophile, 

 preferring dry upland localitions on barren soils, covered with 

 coarse grasses and low scrub growth. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Schwenksville, Montgomery Co., Pa., on 

 trap ridge (Fox); Ashbourne, Philadelphia Co., Pa. (Rehn); Pink 

 Hill, near Newtown Square, Delaware Co., Pa., on serpentine (Rehn 

 and Hebard, Fox); Fern Hill, near West Chester, Pa., on serpentine 

 (Rehn and Hebard). 



Pine Barrens. — Between Penbryn and Williamstown Junction, 

 in low blueberry scrub (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, in dry pasture (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, in low grass on sand (Fox) ; 

 Clermont, in low scrub (Fox). 



ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 0. speciosa Scudd. 



General Range. — Southern Canada and northern United States 

 south to the latitude of Maryland, and in the mountains to northern 

 Alabama, west to Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Quite common, though somewhat local, 

 in the Appalachian, Plighland and Piedmont Districts and the Penn- 




1914.] . NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



sylvania portion of the Middle District, extremely scarce and local 

 in the Coastal Plain. 



Ecological Distribution. — A humicolous xerophile, inhabiting 

 fields, pastures, hillsides and woodland borders, preferring areas of 

 coarse grasses on dry, more or less barren or undisturbed soils. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Ricketts, Wyoming Co., Pa. (Stewardson 

 Brown); Ganoga Lake, Sullivan Co., Pa. (Stewardson Brown); 

 Rockville. 



Piedmont Plateau.— Rock Hill, Bucks Co., Pa. (Fox); Perkasie, 

 Bucks Co., Pa. (Fox); Fort Washington, Montgomery Co., Pa. 

 (Fox); Mt. Airy, Philadelphia Co., Pa. (Fox); Germantown, Phil- 

 adelphia Co. (Fox); Fern Hill, Chester Co. (Hebard and Rehn); 

 Pink Hill, Delaware Co. (Fox); Castle Rock, Delaware Co. (Rehn 

 and Hebard); Bound Brook, N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Highlands.— Sparta, N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Orange Mts., 

 N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Middle District. — Bartram's Garden, Philadelphia, Pa. (Fox); 

 common; Elmwood, Philadelphia Co., frequent in dry grassy tracts 

 along the edge of the Tinicum marshes (Fox) ; Essington, Delaware 

 Co., Pa. (Fox). 



Newcastle, Delaware, frequent (Fox). 



Washington Park, 1 male (Fox), Almonesson, 1 male, var. bilineata, 

 on sandy barren (Fox) . 



Pine Barrens. — Stafford's Forge, 2 females (Rehn). 



Coastal District. — Anglesea, 1 female (N. J. St. Mus.). 



Remarks. ^ — Both the normal and the hilineata types occur in our 

 range, the normal being vastly in excess of the latter type, which 

 may be regarded as relatively scarce. In addition there is much 

 variability as regards color and markings in different individuals, 

 these occurring indifferently in both the normal and bilineata types. 

 Of the color varieties there are, (a) a form with the ground color a 

 light olivaceous; (6) one in which it is green; (c) a form which may 

 have either of these two ground colors, but has more or less of the 

 upper surface a bright crimson or orange, instead of the usual pale 

 broum. Of the variations in markings there are two forms, one in 

 which the body color is practically uniform, another in which it is 

 conspicuously mottled with darker blotches of black or brown. 

 In our region the most frequent type is the uniformly colored, 

 olivaceous variety, but the others are by no means infrequent. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF • [June, 



0. pelidna Burm. 



General Range. — Southern New England, Ontario, Michigan 

 and Minnesota, south to Florida and the Gulf States, west to Colorado 

 and New Mexico; most abundant in the Austral zones, especially 

 near the coast, more or less local in the northern and central States. 



Local Distribution. — Rare or only occasionally frequent locally 

 in the Piedmont Plateau; common locally in the Pennsylvania 

 portion of the Middle District; abundant in all parts of the Coastal 

 Plain, including the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution.— Habitat preferences rather variable, 

 but typically a'humicolous xerophile. In the Piedmont Region it 

 is associated with 0. speciosa; in the Coastal Plain it usually occurs 

 on dry sands or sandy loams wherever there is at least a moderate 

 amount of plant cover in the form of grass or low herbage; less 

 frequently it occurs in open peat-bogs and meadows. 



Locality Records.— 



Piedmont Plateau. — Perkasie, Bucks Co., Pa., 2 out of 106 Orphu- 

 lellcB were of this species (Fox); Mt. Airy, Philadelphia Co., 19 out 

 of 108 of this species, the rest speciosa (Fox) ; Pink Hill, Delaware 

 Co. (Rehn, Fox) ; in my own collection 4 out of 49 Orphulellce were 

 of this species. 



Middle District. — Bartram's Garden, Elmwood, Philadelphia Co., 

 of 125 Orphtdellce 45 were pelidna (Fox); Essington, Chester Co., 

 14 pelidna out of a total of 26 Orphulellce (Fox). 



Newcastle, Del., frequent (Fox). 



Riverton, N. J. (Viereck); Washington Park (Fox), abundant; 

 Almonesson (Fox) ; Mantua (Fox) ; Laurel Springs (Fox) ; Medford 

 (Rehn); Jericho (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Taunton (Stone); Bear Swamp, Burlington Co. 

 (Rehn); Speedwell (Rehn); Clemonton (Rehn, Fox); Penbryn 

 (Fox); between Cedar Grove and Chatsworth (Rehn); Stafford's 

 Forge (Rehn); West Creek (Rehn); Atsion (Hebard); Winslow 

 (Fox); Rosedale (Rehn and Hebard); Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard); 

 Manumuskin (Fox) ; Belleplain (Fox) ; Mt. Pleasant (Fox) ; Formosa 

 Bog (Fox); head of Tuckahoe River (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Petersburg (Fox); Palermo (Fox); Seaville 

 (Fox); Ocean View (Fox); Goshen (Fox); Sea Isle City (Fox); 

 Seven-mile Beach (Fox); Anglesea (Fox); Cape May (Viereck, 

 Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); South Seaville (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Clermont 

 (Fox); Swain (Fox); Rio Grande (Fox); Bennett (Fox). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Remarks. — Same color variations in this as in the preceding species. 



0. olivaoea Morse. 



General Range. — Southern Connecticut to Florida, Louisiana 

 and Panama along the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Common in salt marshes in the Coastal 

 and doubtless also in the lower Middle District. 



Ecological Distribution. — Common on the salt marshes in the 

 short variety of Spartina glabra; much less frequent in the Sub- 

 maritime zone and rare on the mainland adjoining the salt marsh. 



Locality Records. — 



Coastal District.- — Atlantic City (Rehn); Beesley's Point (Fox); 

 Sea Isle City (Fox); Ocean View (Fox); Anglesea (A. N. S.); 

 Goshen (Fox). 



Remarks. — This species is much less variable than the two pre- 

 ceding species. The usual color is an olivaceous brown with paler 

 dorsal parts. Individuals with more or less green are not uncommon, 

 but I have never seen a single specimen with the reddish upper parts. 

 Both uniformly colored and mottled individuals occur, the former 

 being more frequent. 



DICHROMORPHA Morse. 

 D. viridis Scudd. 



General Range.^ — Southern New England to Florida, west to 

 Minnesota, Nebraska and Texas. 



Local Distribution.^ — Abundant in the Piedmont Region and 

 the Pennsylvania portion of the Middle District; less frequent and 

 largely local in the New Jersey Middle District, becoming rare in 

 its southern part; very local in the northern half of the Pine Barrens; 

 apparently entirely absent from the southern Pine Barrens, Coastal 

 District and Cape May Peninsula. 



Ecological Distribution. — Prevailingly a frequenter of low, 

 humid areas, especially rich, grassy meadows; less frequent but not 

 uncommon in upland situations where there is a thick growth of 

 succulent grasses; occasional in quite dry locations, such as stony 

 hillsides. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands.— BoonioTi, N. J. (G. M. Greene, A. N. S.). 



Piedmont PZa^eaii.— Highspire, Dauphin Co., Pa. (Pa. St. Dept. 

 Zool.); Rock Hill, Bucks Co., Pa. (Fox); Perkasie, Bucks Co., Pa. 

 (Fox); CoUegeville, Montgomery Co., Pa. (Fox); Fort Washington, 

 Montgomery Co. (Fox); Mt. Airy, Philadelphia Co. (Fox); Fern 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OB [June, 



Hill, Chester Co. (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill, Delaware Co., Pa. 

 (Rehn and Hebard, Fox); Castle Rock, Delaware Co. (Rehn and 

 Hebard). 



Middle District. — Tullytown, Bucks Co., Pa. (Fox); Philadelphia 

 Neck (Rehn) ; Elmwood, in Tinicum Meadows (Fox) ; Paschalville, 

 Philadelphia Co., in Tinicum Meadows (Fox); Essington (Fox). 



Newcastle, Del. (Fox). 



Washington Park, Gloucester Co., N. J. (Fox); Mantua (Fox); 

 Almonesson, scarce (Fox); Blackwood, moderately frequent in suc- 

 culent grass on bank of stream (Fox); Laurel Springs (Fox), not 

 common; Clementon, occasional in open bogs and pond borders 

 (Fox) ; Bridgeton, several in a small, humid depression (Fox) ; 

 Jericho, scarce in an open meadow along stream (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Bear Swamp, Burlington Co. (Rehn) ; Clementon, 

 occasional (Fox) ; Penbryn, edge of cedar bog, scarce (Fox) ; Atsion 

 (Hebard). 



Remarks. — Both brown and green phases occur in our region in 

 approximately equal numbers. 



CLINOCEPHALUS Morse. 

 C. elegans Morse. 



General Range. — New Jersey to Florida and Louisiana, mostly 

 near the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in the Coastal District and 

 the Maritime portions of the Delaware Valley; rare inland. 



Ecological Distribution. — A characteristic species of the 

 Submaritime zone, frequenting especially the mixed growth of 

 Spartiiia patens and J uncus gerardi along the edges of the salt marsh ; 

 very exceptional inland in cranberry bogs. 



Locality PtECORDS. — 



Middle District. — Canton, Salem Co., N. J., in Submaritime zone 

 (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Ocean County, on cranberry bogs, rare (Smith in 

 N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Belleplain, Cape May Co., in a small, neglected 

 cranberry bog in oak-pine woods, 1 male (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Beesley's Point (Fox) ; 

 Ocean View (Fox) ; Sea Isle City (Fox) ; Seven-mile Beach (Fox) ; 

 Anglesea (Wenzel); Cape May (Viereck, N. J. St. Mus. Rep., Fox); 

 Goshen (Fox); Cold Spring (Long). 



CHLCEALTIS Harris. 

 C. conspersa. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to southern New Jersey, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



Maryland and Illinois, south in the mountains to North Carolina 

 and Arkansas, west to Alberta, Minnesota and Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Rare and local throughout, except on the 

 beaches from which we have no records. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically a denizen of moist wood- 

 land, frequenting grasses and sedges around wet depressions; in the 

 Coastal District occurring along the outer edge of the Submaritime 

 zone where the latter joins the upland in association with Iva oraria 

 scrub. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Sullivan Co., Pa. (A. N. S.); Culvers 

 Lake, Sussex Co., N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Highlands. — Lake Hopatcong, Newfoundland (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Fort Lee, N. J. (Beutenmuller). 



Valley Forge, Chester Co., Pa. (Hebard); Fern Hill, Chester Co. 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill, Delaware Co., Pa., grassy borders 

 of stream and adjoining slope on edge of a small grove (Fox) ; Angora 

 (Greene). 



Middle District.- — Almonesson, boggy depression in low oak woods 

 (Fox); Clementon, boggy spot in mixed oak and pine woods (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis); Tuckerton (Davis); Browns 

 Mills Junction (Daecke in N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Speedwell (Rehn); 

 Atsion (Rehn); Winslow, grassy and scrub undergrowth in moist 

 pine woods (Fox) ; Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Belleplain, grassy 

 and bushy undergrowth in low oak woods surrounding an extensive 

 bog (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, scarce, but taken regularly in 

 Submaritime zone several seasons in succession (Fox). 



STENOBOTHRUS Fisch. (= Chorthippus Fieb.). 

 S. curtipennis Harris. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to Maryland and Indiana, 

 in the mountains to North Carolina; west to Alberta and eastern 

 Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in the Appalachian and Pied- 

 mont Districts and along both banks of the Delaware River; rare 

 and local elsewhere in the Coastal Plain. 



Ecological Distribution. — A hygrophilous type typical of 

 grassy and sedgy swamps, ditches and stream borders, especially 

 abundant in meadowlands. In the Coastal Plain appears to be 

 largely restricted to the succulent grasses bordering the more open 

 bogs; exceptional in sphagnum and cranberry bogs. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Locality Records.— 



Appalachian District. — Ricketts, Wyoming Co., Pa. (S. Brown); 

 Bellasylva, Wyoming Co., Pa. (S. Brown); Ganoga Lake, Sullivan 

 Co., Pa. (S. Brown); Turnersville, Wayne Co., Pa. (B. Long); 

 South Sterling, Wayne Co., Pa. (Long); Loanna, Pike Co., Pa. 

 (Long). 



Highlands. — Lake Hopatcong, Sparta, Culvers Lake, Newfound- 

 land, Orange Mts., N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau.— Caldwell, N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Rock 

 Hill, Pa. (Fox); Collegeville, Pa. (Fox); Fort Washington, Pa. 

 (Fox); Fern Hill, Pa. (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill, Pa., in ''hum- 

 mock" bog, valley of Fawkes Run (Fox). 



Middle District.— Tullyiown, Pa. (Fox); Elmwood, Pa. (Fox); 

 Paschalville, Pa. (Fox); Essington, Pa. (Fox). 



Jamesburg, N. J. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Washington Park (Fox); 

 Almonesson (Fox) ; Clementon (Fox) . 



Pine Barrens.— "Ocean Co." (Smith, in N.J. St. Mus. Rep.); Fol- 

 som, in open bog border, several (Fox) ; Belleplain, one individual in 

 small cranberry bog in oak and pine woods (Fox) . 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, very local, moderately frequent 

 in the succulent grass surrounding a Scirpus americanus depression 

 near Devaul Run (Fox) ; Petersburg, small numbers in succulent 

 grass on slope adjoining overflow marsh on Cedar Swamp Creek 

 (Fox); Anglesea (Rehn). 



MECOSTETHUS Fieb. 

 M. lineatus Scudd. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to southern New Jersey, 

 Indiana and Illinois, west to eastern Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Appalachian District and Coastal Plain, 

 very local and only exceptionally frequent, usually scarce. Only 

 one record from the Piedmont Plateau. In our region most frequent 

 apparently on the shores of the Delaware River. 



Ecological Distribution. — A strongly hygrophilous species, 

 preferring marshes in which there is a tall and dense growth of 

 grasses and sedges. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Lopez, Sullivan Co. (Long). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Fort Lee (Beutenmiiller). 



Middle District. — Elmwood in a H omalocenchrus oryzoides bog on 

 Tinicum Meadows (Fox); Tinicum Meadows (Rehn and Hebard). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



Between Washington Park and Red Bank in a small "hummock" 

 (Carex strida ?) swamp (Fox) . 



Pine Barrens. — ''Ocean Co." on cranberry bog (N. J. St. Mus. 

 Rep.) ; Lakehiirst {idem.) ; between Winslow and Folsom, 1 individual 

 taken in Woodwardia virginica patch in peat bog (Fox); Folsom 

 (Rehn and Hebard) ; Hammonton (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Belleplain 

 (Fox), 1 taken in bog. 



Coastal District.— Anglesea. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



ARPHIA Stal. 

 A. sulphurea Fabr. 



General Range." — Southern New England and Ontario to northern 

 Florida, west to eastern Nebraska and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent, though more or less local, 

 throughout the Piedmont Plateau and Coastal Plain; absent on the 

 beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — A xerophilous species frequenting 

 especially bare soil surfaces usually in the vicinity of woodlands; 

 not infrequent in dry grasslands. 

 Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. ZooL). 

 Piedmont Plateau. — Rock Hill (Fox); Cliffs of the Delaware 

 below Kintnersville (Fox) ; Trappe (Fox) ; Valley Forge (Hebard, 

 Fox); Mt. Airy (Fox); Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill 

 (Rehn and Hebard, Fox); Castle Rock (Daecke); Williamsoii 

 School (Long). 



Middle District. — Tullytown, on sandy eminence in open woods 

 (Fox); Philadelphia (A. N. S.). 



DaCosta (Daecke); Westville (Rehn); Barnesboro (Fox); 

 Almonesson (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — West Plains (Rehn); Clementon (Rehn, Fox); 

 Penbryn (Fox); Winslow (Fox); Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard); 

 ]\Ianumuskin (Daecke); Belleplain (Fox); Formosa Bog (Fox). 

 Coastal District. — Petersburg (Fox); Ocean View (Fox). 

 Cape May Interior. — Sea Lsle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox) ; Dennisville (Fox). 

 A. xanthoptera Burm. 



General Range. — Southern New England and Wisconsin, south 

 to Florida and Texas, west to Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Essentially the same distribution as the 

 preceding, but rather more frequent; somewhat local in the Piedmont 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Region and Pine Barrens, but common almost everywhere in the 

 Middle and Coastal Districts. Absent or rare on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Essentially a humicolous xerophile, 

 apparently preferring campestral stations, but not uncommon in 

 very open woodland. Especially frequents dry grasslands; also 

 occurs in numbers on bare loamy and clayey soils, but seems to avoid 

 bare sand. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Ricketts, Ganoga Lake (S. Brown). 



Highlands.— Orsinge Mts. (N. J. Mus. Rep.); Middlesex Co. 

 (idem.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Fort Lee (Beutenmuller). 



Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Perkasie, frequent in hillside 

 pasture on stony soil (Fox); Trappe (Fox); Collegeville, upland 

 cornfields, stubble-fields and roadsides, frequent (Fox); Valley 

 Forge, frequent on dry grassy hillsides (Fox) ; Edge Hill (Long) ; 

 Ashbourne (Long) ; Mt. Airy (Fox) ; Germantown (Fox) ; Fern 

 Hill (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill (Fox). 



Middle District. — Philadelphia (Viereck); Elmwood (Fox); 

 Essington (Fox); Newcastle, Del. (Fox). 



Riverton.-(Rehn) ; Washington Park (Fox); Almonesson (A. N. S., 

 Fox); Blackwoods (A. N. S.); Atco (Rehn); Medford (Stone); 

 Laurel Springs (Fox); Clementon (Rehn, Fox); Jericho (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Whitings (Rehn) ; between Cedar Grove and 

 Chatsworth (Rehn); Staff ords Forge, in pine woods undergrowth 

 (Rehn); West Creek (Rehn); Atsion (Hebard); Clementon (Rehn, 

 Fox); Manumuskin, most frequent in settlements, infrequent in 

 dry, open patches of bare sand in pine woods (Fox) ; Belleplain 

 (Fox), mostly in open places; Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa Bog 

 common in a neglected field near an old house, but unusual in the 

 surrounding oak and pine woods (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, quite frequent in old grassy and 

 weedy fields (Fox); Anglesea (A. N. S.). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox) ; S. Seaville, especially frequent in old fields (Fox) ; 

 Clermont (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Swain (Fox); Bennett (Fox). 



Remarks. — Only the yellow-winged phase of this species seem^ to 

 occur in any numbers in our region. The red or orange-winged 

 phase I have never seen in the field, though it is possible that it may 

 occur as a very rare variant. This is in marked contrast to the 

 frequency of the red-winged phase in the Central Western States 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



where it is nearly or quite as common as the yellow phase. The 

 usual explanation that the red-winged phase is due to greater humidity 

 is difficult to harmonize with the almost exclusive prevalence of the 

 yellow-winged type in our region, which is more humid than the 

 States west of the Appalachians. 



CHORTOPHAGA Sauss. 

 C. viridifasciata De Geer. 



General Range. — New England States and southern Canada, 

 to Georgia, Minnesota, Colorado and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — Common throughout the Piedmont Plateau 

 and Coastal Plain, probably also in the Appalachian District. Per- 

 haps a secondary introduction on the beaches. Somewhat local in 

 the Pine Barrens, occurring chiefly near human habitations. 



Ecological Distribution. — Occurs in a wide range of habitats; 

 most typical apparently of relatively dry, open grasslands, but not 

 infrequent in more humid surroundings, such as meadowlands; 

 avoids locations that are actually wet. Less frequent in sylvan 

 habitats than in campestral. Exceptional on bare sand and in low 

 scrubby vegetation. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Honesdale (Pa. St. Coll.); Rockville 

 (Pa. St. Coll.); Pocono (A. N. S.). 



Piedmont Plateau.- — Perkasie (Fox) ; cliffs of the Delaware below 

 Kintnersville (Fox) ; Schwenksville (Fox) ; Trappe (Fox) ; <C^ollege- 

 ville (Fox); Eagleville (Fox); Valley Forge (Hebard, Fox); Willow 

 Grove (Fox); Fort Washington (Fox); Edge Hill (A. N. S.); Mt. 

 Airy (Fox) ; Germantown (Fox) ; Pink Hill (Rehn and Hebard, 

 Fox); Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard). 



Middle District. — Tullytown (Fox) ; Elmwood (Fox) ; Essington 

 (Fox). 



Riverton (Rehn) ; Washington Park (Fox) ; Medford (Rehn) ; 

 Lindenwold (Long) ; Almonesson (Fox) ; Blackwood (Fox) ; Barnes- 

 boro (Fox); Ashland (Fox); Laurel Springs (Fox); Clementon 

 (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Speedwell (Rehn) ; Bear Swamp (Rehn) ; Clemen- 

 ton (Fox); Penbryn (Fox); Winslow (Fox); Elm (Fox); Folsom 

 (Rehn and Hebard) ; near West Creek (Rehn) ; head of the Tucka- 

 hoe River (Fox); Belleplain (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa 

 Bog (Fox). 



Coastal . District. — Ocean View (Fox) ; Petersburg (Fox) ; Sea 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Isle City, mostly in neglected lots, on roadsides and railway embank- 

 ments (Fox); Piermont (Fox); Angelsea (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); Clermont (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); 

 Swain (Fox); Rio Grande (Fox); Bennett (Fox). 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudd. 

 E. sordidus. 



General Range. — Southern Canada to Florida and Texas, west 

 to Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — An abundant and characteristic species 

 of the Appalachian and Piedmont Regions; scarce or lacking in the 

 greater part of the Coastal Plain, occurring in numbers only in the 

 Middle District; barely entering the Pine Barrens along their 

 northern and western borders. No records from the remainder of 

 the Pine Barrens, the Coastal District or the Cape May Peninsula. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically a species of dry grassland, 

 preferring campestral stations; common in old and neglected fields, 

 roadsides, pastures, etc. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Ricketts (Brown) ; Ganoga Lake (Brown) ; 

 Wyoming Co. (A. N. S.); Rockville, Marysville (Pa. St. Dept. 

 Zool.). 



Highlands. — Newfoundland (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.) ; Perkasie 

 (Fox); Trappe (Fox); Collegeville (Fox); Valley Forge (Fox); 

 Edge Hill (Long); Ashbourne (Long); Lawndale (A. N. S.); Mt. 

 Airy (Fox); Germantown (Fox); Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard); 

 Pink Hill (Fox) ; Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard) ; Caldwell, Newark, 

 New Brunswick (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Middle District. — Elmwood, Essington, abundant in all relatively 

 dry locations (Fox); Philadelphia (A. N. S.). 



Washington Park, abundant in dry grassy locations (Fox) ; Laurel 

 Springs, frequent in grasslands (Fox). 



Pi7ie Barrens. — Ocean Co. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Speedwell 

 (Stone). 



CAMNULA Stal. 

 C. pellucida Scudd. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to northern Pennsylvania, 

 Indiana and Illinois, west to the Pacific States. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently quite scarce in the Appa- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



lachian District, absent elsewhere. Known by positive record only 

 from northeastern Pennsylvania. 



EcoLotiiCAL Distribution. — Not known from personal investiga- 

 tion, but apparently, according to descriptions of authors, a denizen 

 of dry grasslands. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Wayne Co., Pa. (Long). 



HIPPISCUS Sauss. 

 H. tuberculatUS Beauv. (= apiculatus Harris). 



General Range. ^ — Canadian Provinces south to southern Penn- 

 sylvania, northern Indiana and Illinois, extending in the mountains 

 to North Carolina; west to Alberta, Northwest Territories and 

 Colorado. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently frequent in the Appalachian 

 District; not uncommon, but more or less local in the Piedmont 

 Plateau. Absent from the Coastal Plain or at most barely entering 

 it along its northern border. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically restricted to dry grass 

 and scrub lands, usually in the vicinity of woodlands; rarely occurring 

 in damp, upland stream meadows. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Wayne Co. (Long); Tyrone (Pa. St. Dept. 

 Zool.) ; Honesdale {ibid.) ; Bendersville (ibid.) ; Huntingdon (ibid.) ; 

 Langsdorf (ibid.). 



Highlands. — Hewitt (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Newfoundland (N. J. 

 St. Mus. Rep.) ; Great Notch (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; High Bridge 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau.- — Cliffs of the Delaware below Kintnersville 

 (Fox) ; Schwenksville, several in dry roadside vegetation along edge 

 of woods (Fox); Trappe, 1 individual in low thickets near edge of 

 woods (Fox) ; Eagleville, exceptionally frequent in an upland meadow 

 in long grass adjoining a small stream, not near woodland (Fox); 

 A'alley Forge, frequent in clearings and along the edge of woods on 

 high ridge (Fox) ; Mt. Airy, several taken in a dry, grassj^ upland 

 field adjoining a small stream (Fox). 



Middle District. — Farmingdale (Johnson, in N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



H. phnenicopterus Germ. 



General Range. — Southern New Jersey and southern Illinois to 



Georgia, Mississippi and Texas, west to southeastern Nebraska. 



Local Distribution.— Largely restricted to the Coastal Plain, 

 33 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



where it is common in the Pine Barrens and Cape May Peninsula, 

 less frequent and more local in the Middle District and probably 

 accidental on the beaches and in the Piedmont of New Jersey. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of low, rather open 

 thickets and scrub growth on relatively pure sands, usually in the 

 vicinity of woodlands; less frequent, but not always uncommon in 

 dry, open grasslands. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Little Falls, Caldwell, New Brunswick (N. J. 

 St. Mus. Rep.). 



Middle District. — Ahnonesson, on sandy barrens, not common 

 (Fox); Turnersville, frequent on upland sand barrens and sandy 

 fields adjoining the woods (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Speedwell (Rehn) ; Clementon (Rehn, Fox) ; 

 Winslow (Fox) ; Atsion (Hebard and Rehn) ; head of Batsto (Rehn) : 

 Manumuskin (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Palermo (Fox); Ocean View (Fox); Sea Isle 

 City, 1 individual observed in a vacant lot in the centre of the town, 

 probably accidentally brought over from the mainland (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville, largely restricted to wooded areas (Fox); 

 Greenfield (Fox) ; Clermont (Fox) ; Swain (Fox) ; Rio Grande (Fox) ; 

 Bennett (Fox). 



H. rugOSUS Scudd. (inrl. //. compactus Scudd.)- 



General Range. — New England States and Minnesota, south to 

 Florida and Texas, west to Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Very local in the Piedmont Region, but 

 occasionally quite frequent; more abundant, but also somew^hat 

 local in the Coastal Plain, apparently having its stronghold in the 

 lower Delaware Valley and Coastal Districts. Seems to be quite 

 exceptional in the Pine Barrens. Rare, possibly accidental, on the 

 beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — A species of dry or moderately 

 humid grasslands and low scrub, frequenting especially old, neglected 

 fields and woodland borders. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands.— Oran^yv Mts. (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Bound Brook, New Brunswick, Caldwell 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Perkasie (Fox) ; Valley Forge (Fox) ; Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard) : 

 Pink Hill (Fox); (^oUingdale (Rehn). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Middle District. — Lahaway (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakewood (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); head of 

 Tuckahoe River (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean Mew, frequent in old, briery fields and 

 along edge of woods (Fox); Anglesea (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Cape May Interior. — S. Seaville (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Cler- 

 mont (Fox)20; Swain (Fox). 



Remarks. — All individuals of this species taken by me were of 

 the yellow-winged variety. 



DISSOSTEIRA Scudd. 

 D. Carolina Linn. 



General Distribution. — All temperate North America from the 

 Atlantic to the Pacific. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in all districts with the possible 

 exception of certain parts of the Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — Found in all dry or moderately 

 humid locations where there is more or less bare ground; largely 

 a campestral species, less frequent in sylvan haunts; occurs in fields, 

 meadows, and open woodland, especially abundant on roads, paths, 

 trails, etc. 



IjOCAlity Records (list includes my own records only). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Rock Hill, Perkasie, Collegeville, Valley 

 Forge, Fort Washington, Mt. Airy, Germantown, Pink Hill, Phila- 

 delphia. 



Middle District. — Tullytown, Elmwood, Paschalville, Esssington, 

 Newcastle. 



Washington Park, Mantua, Almonesson, Laurel Springs, Clemen- 

 ton, Jericho, Canton. 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon, Penbryn, Winslow, most frequent 

 in cleared land, less common in scrub land; Manumuskin, Belleplain, 

 Mt. Pleasant, Formosa Bog, mostlj^ on more open roads and in 

 abandoned fields, infrequent in woodland clearings. 



Coastal District. — Petersburg, Palermo, Seaville, Ocean View, 

 Court House, Goshen, Green Creek, Sea Isle City, Townsend Inlet, 

 Seven-mile Beach, Anglesea, Wildwood, Cape May, Dennisville. 



SPHARAGEMON Scudd. 

 S. saxatile Morse. 



General Range. — New England States south in the mountains 

 to southern Virginia, locally westwards to Arkansas. 



2° The record for Cedar Grove attributed to me in the N. J. St. Mus. Report 

 refers to this Cape May County locality, which is also called Cedar Grove, and 

 not to the Pine Barren locality described under that name in the list of localities. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the Appalachian and High- 

 lands Districts. 



Ecological Distribution. — A distinctively saxicolous species, 

 occurring, according to Morse, on bare rock surfaces, ledges and 

 thinl}^ grassed rocky soil. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian Region. — Lehigh Gap (Rehn). 



Highlands. — Newfoundland (Davis, N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



S. bolli Scadd. 



General Distribution. — Temperate North America, west to 

 Colorado and Manitoba. 



Local Distribution. — Occurs in the Appalachian District; very 

 local and only rarely frequent in the Piedmont Region ; more frequent 

 but local in the Middle and Coastal Districts; especially common 

 throughout the Pine Barrens. Not known to occur on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — A typical sylvan species, frequenting 

 the grassy and scrubby undergrowth of dry woodlands. 



Locality Records.^ — 



Appalachian Region. — Enola, Rockville (Pa. 8t. Dept. Zool.) ; 

 Bella Sylva (Brown); S. Sterling (Long); Pike Co. (Long). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Valley Forge (Fox) ; Mt. Airy, frequent in 

 dry grasses and open scrub in deciduous woodland (Fox) ; Fern Hi.l 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Fairview (Rehn). 



Middle District. — Almonesson, scarce (Fox) ; Laurel Springs, 

 frequent (Fox); Jericho, common in sandy barrens (Fox); Canton, 

 in woods (Fox). 



Piiic Barrens. — Clementon, frequent (Fox) ; Penbryn (Fox) ; 

 Winslow, common in blueberr}^ scrub (Fox) ; Parkdale, common 

 (Rehn and .Heliard); Atsion (Hebard); between Cedar Grove and 

 Chatsworth (Rehn) ; Staffords Forge (Rehn, Rehn and Hebard) in 

 "pine woods undergrowth"; Manumuskin, in l)lueberry scruli of 

 open pine and oak woods (Fox); Belleplain, common in dry blue- 

 berry scrub (Fox) ; head of Tuckahoe River (Fox) ; Mt. Pleasant, 

 common in oak and pine woods; Formosa Bogs (Fox); Dennisville, 

 in dry, sandy woods (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville, in wooded districts, common (Fox); South 

 Dennisville (Fox); Greenfield (Fox); Clermont (Fox); Swain 

 (Fox); Rio Grande (Fox); Bennett, not common, very local (Fox). 



S. coUare wyomingianum Thos. 



General Range. — Locally throughout the greater part of the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



continent, occurring from Canada to the Gulf and west at least to 

 Utah. 



Local Distribution. — Restricted almost entirely to the Pine 

 .Barrens, where it is locally at least quite frequent; occurring also 

 in an outlying sand barren in the lower Delaware Valley. 



Ecological Distribution. — A sand-loving species, frequenting 

 bare patches of relatively pure, white sand and open blueberry 

 scrub on sand. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Jericho, in dry wooded sand barrens (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon, locally frequent on clear, white sand 

 and in thin vegetation (Rehn, Fox) ; Penbryn, in sandy field (Fox) ; 

 Jamesburg, on "cranberry bogs" (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Atsion 

 (Hebard); Da Costa (Skinner); Folsom, several on sandy railroad 

 bank and in adjoining field (Fox); Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard); 

 Manumuskin, abundant on bare sand and in open scrub in or along 

 the borders of mixed oak and pine woods (Fox). 



TRIMEROTROPIS Stal. 

 T. maritima Harr. 



General Range. — Maine to Florida (Caudell) along the coast; 

 also on the shores of the Great Lakes. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant on the beaches; occasional 

 inland in the remaining parts of the Coastal Plain. 



Ecological Distribution. — Restricted to areas of loose and 

 more or less shifting white sand; especially characteristic of the 

 Ammophila covered dunes of the seashore; elsewhere occurring on 

 loose sands in association with a very open formation of coarse 

 grasses. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Washington Park, several on loose sand (Fox) ; 

 Bayside (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis) ; Folsom, associated with 

 Spharagemon collare, several (Fox) ; Manumuskin, several on sandy 

 bluff overlooking tidal stream (Fox) ; Mt. Pleasant, one on gravelly 

 road (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Sandy Hook (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Seaside 

 Park (Long); Atlantic City (Fox); Ocean City (Fox); Sea Isle 

 City (Fox); Townsend Inlet (Fox); Beesley's Point (Fox); Seven- 

 mile Beach; Anglesea (Fox); Cape May (Fox); Cape May Point 

 (Fox); Town bank (Fox). 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Ca'pe May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, a permanent colony in a 

 sand pit (Fox); S. Seaville, stray individual (Fox). 



T. citrina Scudd. 



General Range. — Apparently widely distributed throughout 

 the eastern and central section of the continent from Canada to the 

 Gulf, but usually very local; most frequent in the Southern States. 



Local Distribution. — Very rare and local, so far taken in only 

 one locality close to the Appalachian front. 



Ecological Distribution. — Stated to occur on sandy and 

 gravelly river banks and bars. 



Locality Records. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



PSINIDIA Stal. 

 p. fenestralis Serv. 



General Range. — Massachusetts to Florida, mostly in the 

 Atlantic Coastal Plain; also on the shores of the Great Lakes and 

 very local, in isolated sandy areas, in the interior as far west as 

 Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant on bare sandy areas throughout 

 the entire Coastal Plain of New Jersey; no records west of the 

 Delaware River. 



^ Ecological Distribution. — A sand-loving species frequenting 

 areas of pure white sand, bare or but thinly clothed with low herbage; 

 occurs in both campestral and sylvan locations. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Washington Park (Fox); Westville (Rehn); 

 Riverton (G. M. Greene); Almonesson (Fox); Turnersville (Fox); 

 Atco (Rehn); Clementon (Fox); Jericho (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Whitings (Rehn); Taunton (Stone); Clementon 

 (Rehn, Fox); Sumner (Rehn, Fox); Albion (Rehn, Fox); Penbryn 

 (Fox); Staff ords Forge (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); Winslow (Fox); 

 Parksdale (Rehn and Hebard); Manumuskin (Fox); Belleplain 

 (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Spray Beach (Rehn); Atlantic City (Rehn); 

 Beesley's Point (Fox); Ocean View (Fox); Sea Isle City (Fox); 

 Seven-mile Beach (Fox) ; Anglesea (Fox) ; Cape May (Fox) ; Cape 

 May Point (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Cemetery 

 (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Greenfield (Fox); 

 Clermont (Fox); Swain (Fox); Rio Grande (Fox); Bennett (Fox). 



Remarks. — The vast majority of specimens have decidedly 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



reddish hind wings; nuiiiy have orange and occasional examples 

 have them a clear yellow. Light straw or nearly colorless hind wings 

 I have never seen in local material. 



SCIRTETICA Sauss. 

 S. marmorata Harris. 



General Distribution. — Coastal Plain from southern Connecti- 

 cut to Louisiana; locally recorded from southern Ontario and 

 Michigan. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in the Pine Barrens and the 

 northern half of the Cape May Peninsula; local elsewhere in the 

 Coastal Plain. 



Ecological Distribution. — A sand-loving species almost entirely 

 restricted to sylvan situations. Occurs on bare sand or in open 

 scrub on sandy soil. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Almonesson, scarce (Fox) ; Turnersville, frequent 

 in sandy upland woods (Fox) ; Medford (Stone) ; Jericho, abundant 

 in the wooded sand barrens (Fox); Lucaston (Rehn). 



Pine Barrens. — Whitings (Rehn); Speedwell (Rehn); between 

 Harris and White Horse (Rehn) ; Taunton (Stone) ; Atco (Rehn) ; 

 Clementon (Rehn, Fox); Sumner (Fox); Penbryn (Fox); Atsion 

 (Rehn) ; between Cedar Grove and Chatworth (Rehn) ; Staffords 

 Forge (Rehn); West Creek (Rehn); East Plains (Rehn); lona 

 (Daecke) ; Da Costa (Daecke) ; Winslow (Fox) ; Folsom (Rehn and 

 Hebard, Fox) ; Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Manumuskin (Fox) ; 

 Belleplain (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa Bog (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Piermont, 1 individual taken on sand at leeward 

 edge of the dune area not far from the so-called "forest." 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox); Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville, in dry woods (Fox); Dennisville, in open 

 scrub and on sandy paths in oak and pine woods (Fox) ; Greenfield 

 (Fox) ; Clermont (Fox) ; Swain (Fox) ; Rio Grande, local (Fox) ; 

 Cape May Point, frequent on wooded dunes (Fox). 



Remarks. — Three color phases of this species occur in New Jersey. 

 The most frequent is pale gray with darker mottling, giving a color 

 closely simulating sand; a second type is darker, the gray being 

 suffused with dusty-brown; the third type resembles the first, but 

 the body is much speckled with a pale green, giving the creatures a 

 striking resemblance to the crusts of reindeer-moss that are frequent 

 features of their habitat. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



CIRCOTETTIX Scudd. 

 C. verruculatus Kirby. 



General Range. — British Provinces and northernmost United 

 States south to the northern borders of New Jersey and Penns.yl- 

 vania, west to British Columbia. 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the mountainous parts of 

 both States. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Delaware Water Gap (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Highlands.— Dover (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



PODISMA. 



P. variegata Scudd. 



General Range. — Boreal, south in the mountains to North 

 Carolina. 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the Appalachian District; 

 apparently rather local. 



Ecological Distribution. — ^Sylvan, associated especially with 

 hemlock {Tsuga Canadensis) woods (Rehn). 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — North Mt. (Johnson); Ganoga Lake 

 (Brown); Bellasylva (Behr) ; Glen Onoko (Huntington). 



SCHISTOCERCA Stal. 

 S. americana Diury. 



General Range. — ^Extreme southwestern Connecticut and south- 

 ern Ontario to Florida, Texas and South America, especially abundant 

 in the Austral zones. 



Local Distribution. — Usually rare and local in the Coastal 

 Plain, apparently most frequent and regular on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — So far as I have observed, occurs 

 usually in tall grasses and open scrub ; on the beaches frequents the 

 Andropogon areas and bayberry scrub. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Region. — Ft. Lee (BeutenmuUer). 



Middle District.— Is^cws^rk (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Lahaway (N. J. 

 St. Mus. Rep.); Philadelphia (Skinner, Hebard, Seiss.). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakewood (N. J. St. ^Lls. Rep.). 



Coastal District.— Seaside Park (Long); Avalon, scarce (Fox); 

 Anglesea (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.), moderately frequent (Fox); Cape 

 May (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



S. damnifioa Sauss. 



General Range. — New Jersey and southern Indiana to Georgia 

 and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — Locally frequent throughout the Goastal 

 Plain, except the beach islands on which it seems not to occur. 



Ecological Distribution. — A sylvan species occurring typically 

 in or near dry woodlands, inhabiting low thickets and underbrush; 

 local in open campestral country, persisting in tall grass formations 

 and thickets. 



Locality Records.— 



Middle District. — -Manasquan (Davis) ; Medford (Stone) ; Lucas- 

 ton (X. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Florence (Calvert) ; Westville (Skinner) ; 

 Woodbury (Viereck); Almonesson (Fox); Jericho (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Clemonton (Rehn, Daecke, Viereck) ; Penbryn 

 (Fox) ; between head of Batsto and Speedwell (Rehn) ; Winslow 

 (Fox); Hammonton (N. J. .St. Mus. Rep.); Lakehurst (Davis); 

 Lakewood (Davis); Staff ords Forge (Rehn). 



Coastal District. — Palermo (Fox); Ocean View (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Ocean View Cemeter,y (Fox); Bennett 

 (Fox); Clermont (Fox). 



S, alutacea Harris (Typical race). 



General Range. — Southern Massachusetts to Illinois, Nebraska, 

 Florida, Texas and New Mexico. 



Local Distribution. — Common in the Pine Barrens and the 

 upper portion of the Cape May Peninsula; very local in the Middle 

 and Coastal Districts; not known with certainty on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically frequenting the rank 

 herbage of sphagnum and cranberrj^ l^ogs, usually associated with 

 a sylvan environment. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Tinicum (Stone). 



Riverton (Viereck) ; Red Bank, 1 female, verj' aberrant, possibly 

 a hybrid with americana (Fox); Jericho (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Rehn, Fox); Winslow (Fox); Folsom 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Atco(Rehn); Speedwell (Rehn) ; Manahawken 

 (Rehn) ; West Creek (Rehn) ; between Cedar Grove and Chatsworth 

 (Rehn); Staffords Forge (Rehn); Whitings (Rehn); Atsion 

 (Hebard) ; Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Manumuskin (Fox) ; 

 Belleplain (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Cape May Court House, in a meadow containing 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



woodwardia virginica, Sanguisorha canadensis, Eupatorium maculatum, 

 etc. (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, in Great Cedar Swamp 

 (Fox) ; S. Seaville, 1 individual in thicket near head of marshy 

 depression (Fox) ; Dennisville, in woodland swamp (Fox) ; Swain 

 (Fox); Nummytown (Fox). 



S. rubiginosa Harris (= rubiginosa phase of alutacea). 



General Range. — Apparently co-extensive with that of alutacea. 



Local Distribution. — Occasional or possibly accidental in the 

 Piedmont Plateau; common in the Pine Barrens and upper part of 

 the interior district of the Cape May Peninsula; rare or local in the 

 Middle and Coastal Districts; absent on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typical of dry, scrubby areas in oak 

 and pine woods on sandy soils. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Middle District. — Almonesson, scarce (Fox) ; Jericho, frequent 

 in sand barrens (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Whitings (Rehn) ; between Cedar Grove and 

 Chatworth (Rehn) ; between Harris and Whitehorse (Rehn) ; 

 Taunton (Rehn) ; Staffords Forge (Rehn) ; Atsion (Hebard) ; Park- 

 dale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Manumuskin (Fox) ; Belleplain (Fox) ; 

 Woodbine (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, scarce (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, common in relatively dry 

 locations, not found in Great Cedar Swamp (Fox); Ocean View 

 Cemetery, frequent in low l^lueberry scrub (Fox) ; S. Seaville, in 

 open woods and woodland scrub (Fox) ; Dennisville, in similar 

 locations (Fox) ; Greenfield (Fox) ; Clermont (Fox) ; Swain (Fox) ; 

 Bennett, scarce in dry wood borders (Fox). 



Remarks. — In addition to typical representatives of the two 

 foregoing races, intermediates, which it is difficult to assign definitely 

 to either race, are common and occur in association with the typical 

 forms. 



S. sp. cf. obscura Burm. {= unicolorous phase of i'. obscura parallel to the rubiginosa phase of 

 alutacea; a possibility suggested to me by Mr. Rehn). 



General Range. — Not known. Typical obscura occurs from 

 Maryland to Florida, Texas and Nebraska. 



Local Distribution.^ — Restricted to and locally common on 

 the beaches. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of the fixed dune 

 areas, where it frequents the tall grasses {Andropogon) and wax- 

 myrtle thickets. 



Locality Records. — 



Coastal District.— Beach Haven (Long); Spray Beach (Long); 

 Seaside Park (Long); Townsend's Inlet (Fox); Avalon (Fox); 

 Piermont (Fox); Anglesea (Fox); Cape May (Fox). 



HESPEROTETTIX Scudder. 

 H. brevipennis Thomas. 



General Range. — Eastern Massachusetts to Georgia and 

 Alabama. 



Local Distribution. — Almost entirely restricted to the Pine 

 Barrens, where it is usually rather infrequent, though occasionally 

 moderately frequent in spots. One specimen is recorded from the 

 Cape May Peninsula. 



Ecological Distribution. — Frequents low scrub and under- 

 growth in mixed pine and oak woods and about the borders of 

 sphagnum bogs. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis); Staff ords Forge (Rehn); 

 Atsion (Hebard and Rehn); between Winslow and Folsom (Fox); 

 Belleplain (Fox) ; Mt. Pleasant (Fox) ; Great Cedar Swamp, north 

 border, near Sea Isle Junction (Fox). 



Cape May Peninsula. — Anglesea (Smith), 1 female, exact location 

 of capture not known ; it might have been on the mainland opposite 

 the beach. 



DENDROTETTIX Riley. 

 D. quercus Riley. 



General Range. — A western species (Nebraska, Missouri, Illinois, 

 Iowa, Texas), known in the east only from New Jersey. 



Local Distribution.^ — Usually rare and local in the Pine Barrens, 

 occasionally common (Davis). 



Ecological Distribution. — Frequenting trees and scrub in oak 

 and pine woods (Rehn) ; feeding on oaks and sumach (Davis). 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Bamber (Daecke); Ridgeway (Davis); Lake- 

 hurst (Davis). 



MELANOPLUS Stal. 

 M. scudderi Uhler. 



General Range. — New England to Georgia and Texas, west to 



Minnesota and Nebraska. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Local Distribution. — Locally frequent throughout, except on 

 the beaches where it seems to be lacking; no actual records from the 

 Appalachian Region, but probably occurs there. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typically a sylvan species frequent- 

 ing grassy and scrubby areas in dry woods; sometimes found away 

 from woodland in thickets, along fences, etc. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Hopatcong, Newfoundland (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Collegeville (Fox) ; Chestnut Hill (Hebard) ; 

 Mt. Airy (Fox) ; Germantown (Fox) ; Ashbourne (Long) ; Castle 

 Rock (Rehn and Hebard). 



Middle District. — Riverton (Johnson) ; Medford (Rehn) ; Lucaston 

 (Daecke) ; Almonesson (Wenzel) ; Laurel Springs (Fox) ; Jericho 

 (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis) ; Atsion (Rehn, Hebard) ; 

 Da Costa (Daecke) ; Staffords Forge (Rehn) ; head of Tuckahoe 

 River (Fox) ; Belleplain (Fox) ; Mt. Pleasant (Fox) ; Formosa Bog 

 (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Palermo (Fox) ; Ocean View (Fox) ; Goshen 

 (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); 

 Dennisville (Fox) ; Greenfield (Fox) ; Clermont (Fox) ; Bennett 

 (Long, Fox); Cape May Point (Fox). 



M. mancus Smith. 



General Range. — New England to northern New Jersey in 

 mountams. 



Local Distribution. — As yet recorded only from the Highlands 

 of New Jersey. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Lake Hopatcong (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



M. tribulus Morse. 



General Range. — Southern Pennsylvania and New Jersey to 

 Georgia. 



Local Distribution. — Rare and local, recorded so far from the 

 Serpentine (or Conowingo) Barrens of southeastern Pennsylvania 

 and from the Pine Barrens and northern border of the Cape May 

 Peninsula. 



Ecological Distribution. — Grassy and scrubby undergrowth 

 of dry woodlands and thickets along their borders. 




1914.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 511 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Pink Hill (Rehn and He})ar(l). 

 Pine Barrens. — Staff ords Forge (Rehn); Belleplain (Fox). 

 Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox). 



M. fasciatUS Walker. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to northern Illinois and 

 Indiana and southern New Jersey, south in the mountains to northern 

 Alabama, west to Colorado and British Columbia. 



Local Distribution. — Occurs in the Appalachian Region. No 

 records of its occurrence in the Piedmont Plateau. Locally frequent 

 throughout the Pine Barrens; occasional in the extreme upper part 

 of the Cape May Peninsula. 



Ecological Distribution. — Frequentss the low scrub and under- 

 growth of dry woods; at times also found about the margins of bogs. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Bellasylva (Stone); Lehigh Gap (Rehn). 



Pine Barrens. — Jamesburg (Beutenmiiller) ; Clementon (Fox); 

 Whitings (Rehn); Speedwell (Rehn); Whitehorse (Rehn); Cedar 

 Grove (Rehn); Staffords Forge (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); between 

 Winslow and Folsom (Fox) ; Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Da Costa 

 (Daecke); Manumuskin (Daecke, Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — ^Sea Isle Junction (Fox). 



M. atlanis Riley. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to Florida, Texas, Utah 

 and Arizona. 



Local Distribution. — Recorded from the Appalachian District; 

 common, though somewhat local, in the Piedmont Plateau; plentiful 

 in the Coastal Plain, especially in the Middle and Coastal Districts; 

 more local in the Pine Barrens. Absent from the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — A xerophilous species of campestral 

 tendencies, preferring open, dry grasslands on sandy soils. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Lehigh Gap (Rehn). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Valley Forge (Fox) ; Germantown (Fox) ; 

 Pink Hill (Fox); Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard). 



Middle District.— TuWy town (Fox); Philadelphia (A. N. S'.); 

 Elmwood (Fox). 



Riverton (Viereck); Atco (Rehn); Washington Park (Fox); 

 Woodbury (Viereck); Mantua (Fox); Almonesson (Fox); Laurel 

 Springs (Fox) ; Clementon (Fox). 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Fox) ; Albion (Rehn) ; Penbryn 

 (Fox); Winslow (Fox); Atsion (Hebard); Folsom (Rehn and 

 Hebard); Parkdale (Rehn); Staffords Forge (Rehn); Manumuskin 

 (Fox); Belleplam (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Petersburg (Fox); Ocean View (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Clermont (Fox); 

 Cape May Court House (Long); Bennett (Fox); Cape May Point 

 (Fox). 



M. femur-rubrum De Geer, 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to the Gulf States, west 

 to British Columbia, Utah and New Mexico, most abundant east 

 of the Rockj^ Mountains. • 



Local Distribution. — The most abundant species throughout, 

 except in the Pine Barrens where it is rather local, occurring almost 

 exclusively in cultivated areas and old fields (Rehn). 



Ecological Distribution. — Adapted to a wide range of environ- 

 mental conditions, but, partial to more or less humid surroundings; 

 largely avoids extremely dry areas, such as bare sand, or open plant 

 formations on dry soils. Its stronghold is in the low, marshy grass- 

 lands in the river valleys and along the edges of the salt marshes, 

 but it is also abundant, though perhaps slightly less so, in all upland 

 districts which are under cultivation and which have a nearly con- 

 tinuous cover of grasses. 



Locality Records. — It is needless to give a list of localities, 

 since it would include about every place in which Orthoptera have 

 been collected. 



M. minor Scudd. 



General Range. — Largely boreal, from the Canadian Provinces 

 to southern New Jersey, Virginia, Indiana, Illinois, Nebraska and 

 Colorado. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent locally in the Piedmont Plateau, 

 doubtless also in the Appalachian Region; rare in the Coastal 

 Plain. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typical of relativelj^ dry ground 

 covered with coarse grasses and low scrub in the vicinity of woodlands. 



Locality Records. — 



ApjMlachian Region. — S. Sterling (Long). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Palisades of the Hudson (Beutenmiiller) ; 

 cliffs of the Delaware below Kintnersville (Fox) ; Valley Forge, 




1914. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



frequent in open places in dry woods and in dry, grassy fields adjoining 

 the woods (Fox) ; Fort Washington (Fox) ; Mt. Airy, frequent on 

 dry hillside associated with Andropogon (Fox); Germantown (Fox); 

 Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard) ; Williamson's School, on Serpentine 

 (Long); Pink Hill (Rehn and Hebard, Fox); Castle Rock (Rehn 

 and Hebard). 



Middle District. — Philadelphia (Rehn); Essington (Fox). 



Jamesburg (Davis); Atco (Seiss); Westville (Johnson). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis) ; Speedwell (Rehn) ; Clementon 

 (Long); Belleplain (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, several taken in low bunch- 

 grasses on sandy soil (Fox). 



M. luridus Dodge. 



General Range. — Canada to southern New Jersey and in the 

 mountains to Georgia, west to Manitoba, Minnesota, Colorado, 

 Oklahoma and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — Very common in the Pine Barrens and 

 upper Cape May Peninsula; local in the Piedmont Plateau and 

 Middle District. No records from the Coastal District. 



Ecological Distribution. — A characteristic sylvan species, 

 frequenting the undergrowth and border vegetation of dry woodlands. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Mt. Airy, frequent in a grove associated with 

 Spharagemon holli and Orpkulella speciosa and pelidna (Fox) ; Fair- 

 mount Park, Philadelphia (Rehn). 



Middle District. — Laurel Springs (Fox) ; Jericho, in sandy barrens 

 (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Whitings (Rehn) ; between Cedar Grove and 

 Chatsw^orth (Rehn); Staffords Forge (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); White 

 Horse (Rehn) ; Clementon (Fox) ; Penbryn (Fox) ; Sumner (liOng) f^ 

 between Winslow and Folsom (Fox); Manumuskin (Fox); Belle- 

 plain (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa Bog (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); Dennisville (Fox); Greenfield (Fox); Clermont (Fox); 

 Swain (Fox). 



M. impudicus Scudder. 



General Range. — Southern New Jersey and southern Indiana 

 and Illinois to the Gulf States, west to Oklahoma. 



21 1 include the M. keeleri of the State Mus. Report under this species. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the Pine Barrens, where it 

 appears to be only locally frequent. 



Ecological Distribution. — Apparently similar to luridus, with 

 which it was associated in the only locality Avhere I have collected it. 

 Always in our region in pine or mixed pine and oak woods. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Jamesburg (Davis); East Plains (Davis); Lake- 

 hurst (Davis) ; White Horse (Rehn) ; near Harris (Rehn) ; Staff ords 

 Forge (Hebard); Atsion (Rehn, Hebard); Manumuskin, quite 

 common in the undergrowth and in the border shrubbery of mixed 

 oak and pine woods (Fox). 

 M. stonei Rehn. 



General Range. — Pine Barrens of New Jersey. 



Local Distribution. — Restricted to the Pine Barrens, and so far 

 reported only from its northern portion. 



Ecological Distribution. — "Low scrub under mixed pine and 

 oak and bare sand near pine woods" (N. J. 8t. Mus. Rep.). 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Between Harris and White Horse (Stone and 

 Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); Staff ords Forge (Rehn). 



M. differentialis (Thomas). 



General Range. — Southern Michigan and Minnesota to south- 

 eastern Tennessee, Louisiana and Texas, west to the Rocky Mts.; 

 local east of the Alleghanies in the vicinity of Philadelphia.^- 



Local Distribution. — Abundant, at least locally, in the low 

 marshy lands adjoining the lower Delaware River and its tributaries. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of alluvial lowlands, 

 frequenting the dense succulent grasses of the marshes — e.g., Homalo- 

 cenchrus oryzoides — and the rank vegetation about their borders, 

 especially the tall ragweed (Ambrosia trifida) ; spreading from such 

 locations to the adjoining upland fields and gardens. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Philadelphia (Seiss, Rehn); West Philadelphia, 

 in Botanic Gardens of the Univ. of Pa. on gravelly upland (Fox) ; 

 Bartram's Garden, in fields and thickets on upland terrace (Fox) ; 

 Philadelphia Neck (Rehn) ; Elmwood, in Tinicum Meadows, abund- 

 ant (Fox) ; Essington, in Tinicum Meadows, frequent (Fox) ; 

 Newcastle, frequent in rank vegetation bordering Delaware River 

 marshes (Fox). 



«Sop Rehn, Cnnad. Eiilom.. Vol. XXXII, 1010, p. 2S. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



Riverton (Rehn); Camden (Kemp, N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); West- 

 ville (Johnson); Red Bank, common in rank growth along river 

 marshes (Fox); Dennisville, 1 male, moist environment, evidently 

 near salt marsh (Davis in personal letter). 



M. femoratus Burm. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to Virginia and Ken- 

 tucky, in the momitains to Georgia and Alabama, west to the Pacific 

 States, mostly northern in distribution. 



Local Distribution. — Very common in the Piedmont Plateau 

 and probably also in the Appalachian Region; common, but rather 

 more local in the Coastal Plain, least frequent in the Pine Barrens 

 and on the beaches, probably being a secondary introduction on the 

 latter. 



Ecological Distribution.^ — Adapted to a wide variety of con- 

 ditions, but seems to prefer more or less humid tracts with a con- 

 tinuous cover of succulent grasses and other vegetation; not in- 

 frequent, however, in quite dry situations where there is considerable 

 cover. It occurs in both campestral and sylvan stations. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian Region. — Pike County (A. N. S.); S. Sterling (Long); 

 Lehigh Gap (Rehn). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Rock Hill 

 (Fox) ; Fort Washington (Fox) ; Valley Forge (Hebard) ; Mt. Airy 

 (Fox) ; Germantown (Fox) ; Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard) ; William- 

 son School, Serpentine Barrens (Long); Pink Hill (Fox); Castle 

 Rock (Rehn and Hebard); West Philadelphia (Fox). 



Middle District. — Tullytown (Fox) ; Elmwood, in Tinicum meadows 

 (Fox); Paschalville (Fox); Essington (Fox); Newcastle (Fox). 



Washington Park (Fox); Red Bank (Fox); Almonesson (Fox); 

 Blackwood (Fox); Mantua (Fox); Jericho (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Between Cedar Grove and Chatsworth (Rehn); 

 West Creek (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); Clementon (Fox); Winslow 

 (Fox) ; Parkdale (A. N. S.) ; Rosedale (Rehn and Hebard) ; Manu- 

 muskin (Fox); Belleplain (Fox), most frequent in cultivated areas; 

 Mt. Pleasant (Fox) ; Formosa Bog (Fox) ; head of Tuckahoe River 



(Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, frequent in grassy areas and 

 thickets (Fox); Anglesea, scarce (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); Dennisville (Fox). 

 34 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



M. punctulatus Scudd. 



General Range. — ^Northern; Canadian Provinces to New 

 Jersey, North Carolina, Indiana and Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Reported from the New Jersey Highlands 

 and the northern section of the Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — A sylvan species of more or less 

 arboreal habits, frequenting the trunks and branches of trees espe- 

 cially pine trees (Walker). 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Newfoundland (Davis) . 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis) ; Browns Mills (Daecke) ; 

 Staff ords Forge (Hebard); Ocean Co. about cranberry bogs (Smith). 



PAROXYA Scudder. 

 P. floridiana Scudder. 



General Distribution. — Eastern Massachusetts and southern 

 Ontario to Florida and Texas, mostly near the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Very exceptional in the Piedmont Region; 

 abundant in suitable locations in the Middle and Coastal Districts; 

 much less frequent and apparently quite local in the Pine Barrens 

 and upper part of the interior of the Cape May Peninsula. Abundant 

 on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — ^A strongly hygrophilous species, 

 frequenting the dense rank grasses and sedges of open marshes, 

 fresh water and submaritime, but not occurring in true salt marsh. 

 Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg, in Wetzel's Swamp (Pa. St. Dept. 

 Zool.). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn); Elmwood, in Tinicum 

 marshes (Fox) ; Paschalville, in Tinicum marshes (Fox) ; Essington, 

 in Tinicum marshes, especially in the rank growth of Sagittaria 

 and associated plants along ditches (Fox); Newcastle (Fox). 



Riverton (Viereck) ; Washington Park (Fox) ; Westville (Viereck) ; 

 Blackwood (Fox) ; Clementon, in sedgy bog (Fox) ; Jericho, in open 

 meadow along stream (Fox) ; Canton, in wet places along the edge 

 of the salt marsh (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Bear Swamp (Rehn); Clementon (Rehn); Fol- 

 som, frequent in open bog associated with P. scudder i (Fox) ; Rosedale 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Manumuskin, in rank growth of rice grass, 

 Zizania palustris, on tidal mudflats (Fox); Belleplain, in open bog 

 containing mixture of Pine Barren and Coastal floras (Fox); Great 

 Cedar Swamp near Sea Isle Junction, not common (Fox). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Coastal District. — Near West Creek (Rehn) ; Ocean View, common 

 in tall grasses and sedges along the borders of the salt meadows 

 (Fox) ; Dennisville, abundant in dense growths of tall grass, Spartina 

 cynosuroides, bordering the salt marsh (Fox); Cape May Court 

 House, abundant in a low marshy area leading toward the salt 

 marsh (Fox) ; Goshen, in Spartina cynosuroides on tidal fiat (Fox) ; 

 Ocean City (A. N. S.) ; Avalon, in humid tracts in the dune depres- 

 sions or along the edges of the salt marsh (Fox) ; Piermont (Fox) ; 

 Anglesea (A. N. S., Fox); Cape May (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Swain, in peat bogs (Fox). 



P. scudderi Blatchley. 



General Range. — Reported so far from northern Indiana and 

 Illinois and the Pine Barrens of New Jersey and North Carolina. 



Local Distribution. — Moderately frequent in the bogs of the 

 Pine Barrens, apparently occasionally intruding into the Coastal 

 District along their edges. 



Ecological Distribution. — ^A characteristic species of the 

 sphagnum bogs, frequenting especially the areas of chain-fern, 

 Woodwardia virginica. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Jamesburg (Davis) ; Lakehurst (Davis) ; Speed- 

 well (Rehn); Bear Swamp (Rehn); Atco (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); 

 Staffords Forge (Rehn); Folsom (Rehn and Hebard, Fox) ; Rosedale 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard); Belleplain 

 (Fox); Great Cedar Swamp near Sea Isle Junction (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Seaville, 1 individual taken in a Scirpus ameri- 

 canus bog adjoining a rivulet draining a near-by cedar-bog (Fox). 



SCUDDERIA Stal. 

 S. texensis Sauss.-Pict. 



General Distribution. — New England and Ontario to Florida 

 and Texas, west to the Great Plains. 



Local Distribution. — Relatively infrequent and local in the 

 Piedmont Plateau; common in the Middle and Coastal Districts; 

 apparently less frequent in the Pine Barrens and the interior of the 

 upper Cape May Peninsula. Frequent on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typical of low humid areas, fre- 

 quenting the rank vegetation in the vicinity of marshes; less frequent, 

 but not uncommon, on the adjoining uplands and along the borders 

 of dry or moist woodlands. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian Region. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Highlands. — Hewitt (Davis). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.) ; Perkasie 

 (Fox), on hillside in scrubby area along edge of a small grove; Mont- 

 gomery Co. (Rehn). 



Middle District. — Philadelphia Neck (Rehn) ; Tinicum (Rehn and 

 Hebard) ; Elmwood, in Tinicum meadows (Fox) ; Paschalville, in 

 Tinicum meadows (Fox); Essington (Fox); Newcastle (Fox). 



Washington Park (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Between Cedar Grove and Chatsworth (Rehn) ; 

 Atsion (Hebard); Staff ords Forge (Rehn). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, common in fresh meadows (Fox); 

 Goshen (Fox); Sea Isle City (Fox); Seven-mile Beach (Fox); 

 Anglesea (Fox); Cape May (Fox). 



S. curvioauda (De Geer). 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to Florida and Texas, 

 west to the Plains. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent throughout, except in the 

 Coastal District from which I have no records of its occurrence. 



Ecological Distribution. — Essentially a sylvan species, fre- 

 quenting the trees and underbrush of both dry and moist woodlands, 

 less frequent in the border-thickets of open meadowlands. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Caldwell (Crane) ; Penryn (Pa. St. Dept. 

 Zool.); Rock Hill (Fox); Fort Washington (Fox) ; Montgomery Co. 

 (Rehn); Mt. Airy (Fox); Pink Hill (Fox). 



Middle District. — Philadelphia Neck (Rehn) ; Tinicum (Rehn and 

 Hebard) ; Elmwood (Fox) ; Riverton (Viereck) ; Laurel Springs 

 (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Fox); Atco (Rehn); Atsion (Rehn); 

 between Harris and White Horse (Rehn); Parkdale (Rehn and 

 Hebard); Belleplain (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa Bog 

 (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox); Swain (Fox); Rio 

 Grande (Fox). 



S. furcata Brnmr. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to the Gulf States, west 

 to the Rocky Mts. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent throughout, except on the 

 beaches, where it seems to be rather scarce. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Ecological Distribution. — Occurs in a variety of habitats, 

 both sylvan and campestral, frequenting trees, scrubby areas and 

 thickets. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Wayne Co. (Long). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Honesdale (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Dauphin 

 (ibid.); Camphill (ibid.); Catawissa (ibid.); Harrisburg {ibid.); 

 Rock Hill (Fox); CoUegeville (Fox); Valley .Forge (Fox); Mt. Airy 

 (Daecke); Collingdale (Rehn); Swarthmore (Rehn). 



Middle District. — Riverton (Viereck); Woodbury (Hardenburg) ; 

 Jericho (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Rehn); Staffords Forge (Rehn); 

 Belleplain (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Formosa Bog (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Ocean View (Fox) ; Goshen 

 (Fox); Avalon, rare (Fox); Anglesea, rare (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Ocean View Cemetery (Fox) ; Greenfield 

 (Fox); Clermont (Fox); Cape May Point (Fox). 



S. pistillata Bniner. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to New Jersey and 

 northern Indiana, west to Manitoba. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently scarce, probably largely re- 

 stricted to the northern districts. 



Ecological Distribution. — "Occurs with the other species" 

 (Beutenmiiller, in N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands.— Chester (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). . 



Middle District. — Lucaston (Daecke). 



S. septentrionalis Serv. 



General Range. — Apparently boreal, south to New Jersey. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently scarce; reported from the 

 Highlands and Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — No data seen. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Ramsey, Lake Hopatcong (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Pine Barrens. — Vineland (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 

 S- truncata Bent. 



General Range. — So far as I am aware, not taken outside the 

 Pine Barrens of New Jersey. 



Local Distribution. — Probably very rare, known only, so far 

 as I am aware, from one locality in the Pine Barrens. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Ecological Distribution. — No data seen. 



Locality Record. — 



Pine Barrens. — Vineland (Beutenmiiller) . 



AMBLYCOEYPHA Stal. 

 A. oblongifolia De Geer. 



General Distribution. — Southern Canada south to Georgia, 

 west to the Great Plains. 



Local Distribution. — Moderately frequent throughout, except 

 on the beaches, where it seems to be lacking. 



Ecological Distribution. — A sylvan species, frequenting scrub 

 growth and borders of woodland. 



Locality Record. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Camphill 

 (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Highspire (Pa. St. Dept. ZooL); Eberly's 

 Mill (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Chestnut Hill (Hebard); Mt. Airy 

 (Daecke); Ashbourne (Long). 



Middle District. — Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Da Costa (Daecke); Atsion (Rehn); Atco (Rehn); 

 Staff ords Forge (Rehn and Hebard). 



Coastal District. — Absecon (A. N. S.); Ocean View (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Greenfield (Fox). 



A. rotundifolia Scudder. 



General Range. — Similar to that of the preceding. 



Local Distribution. — As in the preceding, but less frequent 

 apparently. 



Ecological Distribution. — As in the preceding species. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Rockvihe (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Highlands. — Sparta (Davis); Newfoundland (Davis); Chester 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Ft. Lee 

 (Davis). 



Middle District. — Tinicum (Rehn and Hebard). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis); Staffords Forge (Rehn); 

 Weymouth (Daecke); Atco (Rehn); Manumuskin (Daecke). 



Coastal District. — Morgan (Davis). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox). 



A. uhleri Bruner. 



General Range. — Southern New Jersey to Florida and southern 

 Illinois and Indiana. 




191-i.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



Local Distribution. — Confined to the Coastal Plain, where it 

 usually appears to be of infrequent occurrence, though in some 

 seasons it may be fairly common. Does not seem to occur on the 

 beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Seems, so far as my experience with 

 it goes, to be more campestral in its hal^itat preferences than the 

 other species of the genus. Frequents low scrub and grassy thickets 

 in dry locations. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Lucaston (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Jericho, in 

 sandy barrens (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Atsion (Hebard); Parkdale (Rehn and Hebard). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox); 

 Clermont (Fox). 



MICROCENTRUM Scudd. 

 M. rhombifolium Sauss. (= laurifoUum Linn.). 

 M. retinerve Burm. 



PIEROPHYLLA Kirby (= Cyrtophyllus). 

 C. perspioillatus Linn. 



The three preceding species are the more strictly arboreal forms, 



which were not studied in connection with the present investigation. 



The few specimens which I took add practically nothing to the data 



already published elsewhere. 



CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg of authors. 



(= Conocephaloides Perkins.) 

 C. robustus Scudder. 



General Range. — Coastal New England south near the coast to 

 North Carolina; local in the interior, especially about the region 

 of the Great Lakes. 



Local Distribution. — Of common occurrence throughout the 

 Coastal Plain, especially in the Middle and Coastal Districts; rather 

 local apparently in the Pine Barrens. Frequent on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typical of tall, grassy thickets in 

 both moist and dry situations. Largely limited to campestral 

 stations. Not frequent in salt marshes. 



Locality Records. — • 



Middle District. — Philadelphia Neck (Rehn) ; Elmwood, in Tinicum 

 meadows (Fox); Essington, in Tinicum meadows (Fox). 



Washington Park (Fox); Almonesson (Fox); Clementon (Fox); 

 Jericho (Fox). 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Fox); Atsion (Rehn) ; Manumuskin 

 (Fox); Mt. Pleasant (Fox); Jamesburg (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Coastal District. — Hackensack meadows (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); 

 Spray Beach (Long); Ocean View, frequent on upland and along 

 the edge of the salt marsh; found on salt marsh in the vicinity of 

 artificial embankments (Fox) ; Sea Isle City (A. N. S., Fox) ; Avalon, 

 Piermont, Anglesea (Viereck, Fox); Cape May (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); S. Seaville (Fox). 



C. triops Linn. 



General Range. — I have been able to get very little data on the 

 general distribution of this species. It is, to my knowledge, recorded 

 from Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and 

 Texas. It does not appear to occur west of the Alleghanies. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent in the Piedmont Plateau and 

 Coastal Plain, though apparently rather infrequent and local in the 

 Pine Barrens and on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Prefers areas of open grassland, 

 wherever the plant cover is sufficiently dense, in both moist and dry 

 locations. Absent from salt marshes. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — CoUegeville (Fox) ; Mt. Airy (Fox) ; German- 

 town (Fox). 



Ft. Lee (BeutenmuUer) ; New Brunswick (Grossbeck); Trenton 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn); Philadelphia (J. B. Smith, 

 Rehn); Tinicum (Rehn and Hebard); Elmwood, in Tinicum 

 meadows (Fox); Newcastle (Fox). 



Lahaway (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Riverton (Viereck); Washington 

 Park (Fox) ; Westville (Johnson) ; Merchantville (Daecke) ; Lucaston 

 (Daecke); Sewell (Dickerson). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis); Belleplain (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View (Fox); Sea Isle City (Haim); 

 Avalon, scarce (Fox); Cape May (Davis, Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — S. Seaville, frequent in old fields (Fox); 

 Clermont (Fox). 



C. atlanticus Bmnor. 



I have not recognized this species in any of my collections and 

 am inclined to think that the name is a synonym of the preceding. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



C. ensiger Harris. 



General Range. — New England to southern New Jersey and 

 western North Carolina, west to Ontario, northern Indiana, Minne- 

 sota and Colorado. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently scarce, most frequent north- 

 ward along the edge of the Appalachian District; rare in extreme 

 southern New Jersey. 



Ecological Distribution. — No data on hand for our region, 

 but usually recorded as occurring in grassy meadows and swaies. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Greenwood Lake (Davis). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Honesdale (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Ft. Lee. (Beutenmiiller) ; New Brunswick (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Middle District. — Jamesburg (Davis). 



Pine Barrens (?). — Manumuskin (Daecke). 

 C. exiliscanorus Davis. 



General Range. — Is definitely known from Connecticut, Long 

 Island and New Jersey. I am not aware of any records elsewhere, 

 but it doubtless occurs further south.^^ 



Local Distribution. — Apparently not very common, most 

 frequent in the Coastal District, occasionally occurring inland in 

 near-by parts of Middle District and Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — Mr. Davis informs me the species 

 prefers a wet or swampy place. The first specimens were collected 

 from salt marsh, but he has found it in cattail swamps in places far 

 removed from salt marsh. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Farmingdale (Davis); Freneau (Davis). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis in personal letter). 



Coastal District. — Hackensack meadows (Beutenmiiller) ; Staten 

 Island, in salt meadows on "Spartina" (Davis, N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); 

 Dennisville (Davis). 



C. lyristes Rehn and Hebard. 



General Range. — New Jersey to Florida near the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Moderately frequent in the Coastal 

 District; occasional inland in the near-by parts of the Pine Barrens 

 and Cape May District. 



^' In a personal letter Mr. Davis informs me that '"southward the insect gets 

 larger and the female was in consequence described as ('. bruneri by Mr. Blatch- 

 ley. " If the latter is a synonym of this species it would extend its known i^ange 

 as far west as Indiana at least. C. bruneri has also been recorded from North 

 Carolina (Sherman and Brimley). 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Ecological Distribution. — Along the coast occurs both in true 

 salt marsh and in the marginal (Submaritime) zones, though in my 

 experience it is most frequent in true salt marsh, where it chiefly 

 inhabits the tall, reedy growths of Spartina glabra along the tidal 

 streams and ditches. Mr. Davis writes that he found it at Lake- 

 hurst about cranberry bogs. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (Davis) ; Speedwell (Stone) ; Staffords 

 Forge (Hebard). 



Coastal District. — Snake Hill (Davis) ; Staten Island (Davis) ; 

 Tuckerton (Davis); Barnegat Bay District (N. J. St. Mus Rep.); 

 Ocean View (Fox) ; Sea Isle City (Fox) ; Avalon (Fox) ; opposite 

 Anglesea (Fox) ; Cold Spring (Davis, personal communication) ; 

 CapeMay (N.J.St. Mus. Rep.); Goshen (Fox); Dennisville (Davis). 



Cape May Interior. — In a personal letter Mr. Davis does not specify 

 any locality, but states that he has collected the species "about as 

 far away from the salt water as it was possible for it to get on the 

 rather narrow strip of land." 



C. nebrascensis Bruner. 



General Range. — Records known to me include parts of southern 

 New Jersey, southeastern Pennsjdvania, Ontario, Indiana, Minnesota 

 and Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Rather infrequent and local, in my expe- 

 rience most frequent in the Delaware Valley, occasional in the 

 Coastal District. 



Ecological Distribution. — In swamps, frequenting rather dense, 

 reedy growths of grasses and sedges. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Elmwood, in Tinicum meadows, in a swamp 

 containing an almost pure growth of rice cut-grass {Homalocenchriis 

 oryzoides) (Fox). 



Washington Park (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Sea Isle City (Haim, in N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); 

 Cold Spring (Long) ; Cape May Point, in Scirpus americanus marsh 

 along edge of salt marsh (Fox)."^* 



C. caudellianus Davis. 



General Range. — I do not knoAV of any records of the occurrence 

 of this species outside of New Jersey. 



2'' Mr. Davis writes mo that the I^akehurst record credited to him in the 

 State Museum Report refers to C. It/rides and not to C. ncbrascensiti. Its inchi- 

 sion under the latter was an error. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Local Distribution. — According to Davis, this species is frequent 

 in the Coastal District. It appears to occur inland occasionally in 

 the Pine Barrens.-^ 



Ecological Distribution. — According to a personal communica- 

 tion from Mr. Davis, this species occurs in the same kind of situations 

 as C. lyristes. On one occasion he adds that he took a considerable 

 number in a rather dry field (Tuckerton). 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Jamesburg (Davis); Lakehurst (Davis). 



Coastal District. — Tuckerton (Davis) ; (? Ocean View, Fox) ; Cold 

 Spring (Davis). 



C. palustris Blatchley. 



General Range. — Probably an Austral species, recorded, to my 

 knowledge, from New Jersey, southeastern Pennsylvania, North 

 Carolina and Indiana. 



Local Distribution. — Not common; Middle and Coastal Dis- 

 tricts, seemingly more frequent in the former. 



Ecological Distribution. — Occurs in open fresh-water swamps 

 in locations similar to those frequented by C. 7iebrascensis. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District.— ^ew Brunswick (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Trenton, 

 in Delaware River swamp (Davis, in personal letter). 



Philadelphia Neck (Wenzel, A. N. S); Elmwood, in Tinicum 

 meadow, in a soggy spot covered with dense growth of cut rice-grass 

 (Fox); Tinicum (Rehn). 



Coastal District. — Dennisville (Davis), edge of salt marsh (personal 

 letter) . 



C. fuscostriatus. 



General Range. — Extreme southern New Jersey to North 



Carolina, Georgia and Texas. 



Local Distribution. — One individual taken by Henry W. Fowler, 

 Oct. 24th, 1909 at Town Bank, Cape May Co. (A. N. S.). 



ORCHELIMUM Serv. 

 0. yulgare Harris (= Agile De Geer). 



General Range. — Canada to Florida and Texas, west to the 

 Great Plains. 



-* After examining some specimens of this species kindly sent me by Mr. Davis, 

 I am almost certain that I have taken the same species at Ocean View in Cape 

 May County. At the time I received Mr. Davis' specimens I had already 

 donated my own collections to the Philadelphia Academy and removed to Indiana, 

 and was therefore unable to directly verify my suspicions by comparing my 

 material with determined specimens sent by Mr. Davis. Some of the specimens 

 in my collection which I have labelled lyristes will, I think, prove to be caudellianus. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Local Distribution. — Abundant throughout except in the Pine 

 Barrens, where it appears to be rather local. 



Ecological Distribution. — Typical of open, moist grassland 

 where there is an abundance of succulent grasses; not infrequent 

 in grassy and weedy uplands. Exceptional in sphagnum bogs and 

 absent from salt marsh. 



Locality Records. — ■ 



Appalachian District. — Blairsville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Perkasie 

 (Fox) ; Collegeville (Fox) ; Ft. Washington (Fox) ; Mt. Airy (Fox) ; 

 Germantown (Fox) ; Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard) ; Castle Rock 

 (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill (Fox). 



Delaware Valley. — Cornwalls (Rehn); Elmwood (Fox); Paschal- 

 ville (Fox); Essington (Fox). 



Delair (Daecke); Lucaston (Daecke); Washington Park (Fox); 

 Westville (Viereck); Clementon (Fox); Jericho (Fox); Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Atsion (Hebard) ; near West Creek (Rehn) ; Belle- 

 plain (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, common in sandy uplands in denser 

 grasses and grassy thickets, also in boggy depressions and in low 

 grounds adjoining the salt marsh (Fox); Sea Isle City (Haim); 

 Avalon, marshy hollows in the dune areas (Fox) ; Piermont (Fox) ; 

 Cape May Court House (Fox); Anglesea (N. J. St. Mus. Rep., Fox) ; 

 Cape May (N. J. St. Mus. Rep., Fox); Goshen (Fox); Dennisville 

 (Davis). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction (Fox) ; Ocean View Ceme- 

 tery (Fox); Swain (Fox); Bennett (Fox). 



0. glaberrimum Burm. 



General Range. — Apparently co-extensive with the preceding. 



Local Distribution. — Appears to be rather rare. Probably local, 

 associated more or less with the preceding of which it may be a mere 

 variety (see Blatchley, Orth. of Ind., p. 385). 



Ecological Distribution. — The only specimens I have taken 

 were found in a peat bog where they frequented chain-fern {Wood- 

 wardia virginica) areas. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachian District. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Ft. Lee (Beutenmiiller). 



Pine Barrens. — Between Winslow and Folsom (Fox); Parkdale 

 (Rehn and Hebard). 



Coastal D/s/r/d.— Anglesea (Wenzel, from N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



0. erythrocephalum Davis. 



General Range. — New Jersey to eastern North Carolina. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent in the Pine Barrens, possibly 

 extending a little into the ]\Iidclle and Coastal Districts. 



Ecological Distribution. — Apparently restricted to sphagnum 

 Ixigs, where it frequents the dense growth of chain fern, tall sedges, 

 rushes and associated plants. 



Locality Records. — 



Pine Barrens. — Helmetta (Davis) ; Jamesburg (Davis) ; Lake- 

 hurst (Davis) ; New Lisbon (Smith) ; Lahaway (Smith) ; Browns 

 Mills Junction (Daecke); Atsion (Hebard) ; Parkdale (Rehn and 

 Hebard); Manumuskin (Fox); Belleplain (Fox); Great Cedar 

 Swamp near Sea Lsle Junction (Fox) ; Great Cedar Swamp near 

 Dennisville (Fox). 



? Coastal District. — Toms River (Davis); Tuckerton (Davis). 



0. herbaceum Serv.^fi 



General Range. — Massachusetts to Texas, along the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Common along the edges of the salt 

 marshes in the Coastal District; occasionally occurring inland in 

 the Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of the zone of Scirpus 

 americanus along the edges of the salt marshes; much less frequent 

 in other parts of the Submaritime area. I have no information 

 concerning its Pine Barren habitats. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Newcastle, in Scirpus americanus (Fox). 



Canton (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Brookville (Davis ace. N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); 

 Da Costa (Daecke ace. N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Speedwell (Stone ace. 

 N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Coastal District. — Spray Beach (Long); Atlantic City (Rehn); 

 Sea Isle City (Haim, Fox); Townsend Lilet (Fox); Ocean View 

 (Fox); Avalon (Fox); Piermont (Fox); Anglesea (Wenzel, Fox); 

 Cold Spring (Fox); Cape May (Fox); Goshen (Fox); Dennisville 

 (Davis, Fox). 



0. pulchellum Davis. 



General Range. — New Jersey to eastern North Carolina. 

 Local Distribution. — Apparently scarce, probably local through- 

 out the Middle and Coastal districts and in the Pine Barrens. 



26 1 am inclined to think that all N. J. specimens referred to indianense really 

 belong to this species, at least, so far as coastal material is concerned. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Ecological Distribution. — The only individuals taken by me 

 were found in a sphagnum bog in an open spot bordering dense 

 woods. Some of the locality records would, however, indicate that 

 it occurs in other types of swamps as well. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Trenton (Grossbeck); Tinicum (Hebard). 



Pine Barrens. — Clementon (Rehn) ; Helmetta (Davis) ; Great 

 Cedar Swamp near Sea Isle Junction (Fox); Dennisville (Davis). 



0, spinulosum Redt.2" (= ? validum Wlk.) (= 1 gracile auct. non. Harris). 



General Range. — Uncertain; has been recorded from North 

 Carolina. 



Local Distribution. — Frequent locally throughout, except in 

 the Pine Barrens, which it barely enters. 



Ecological Distribution. — In open grassy or sedgy swamps; 

 especially frequent in swamps dominated by Homalocenchrus ory- 

 zoides. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Collegeville, frequent in moist depressions 

 in meadows (Fox); Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard); Chestnut 

 Hill (Hebard). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn and Hebard); Tinicum 

 (Hebard) ; Elmwood, abundant in Homalocenchrus oryzoides at edge 

 of Tinicum marshes (Fox); Paschalville, in Tinicum meadows 

 (Fox). 



Riverton (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Lucaston (Daecke); Gloucester 

 (Hardenberg) ; Clementon (Greene); Jericho, in stream meadow 

 (Fox); Canton (Fox); Dorchester, tidal swamps along Maurice 

 River (Fox). 



? Pine Barrens. — Belleplain (Daecke, Fox), frequent in the wettest 

 parts of an extensive bog, in a tall species of Juncus, apparently 

 canadensis (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Ocean View, local in fresh 

 meadows and in the Submaritime zone (Fox) ; Sea Isle City (Haim, 

 Fox) ; Avalon (Fox) ; Piermont, in swampy depressions in the dune 



" It is possible that there may be two or three species included under this 

 name. Typical sjipcimens from Tinicum agree closely with some in the A. N. S. 

 marked spim/losuiti; others again differ slightly in coloration, and some of these 

 were tentatively referred t(} the little understood (jracile as used by authors, not 

 the gracile of Harris, which is a synonym of Xiph. fasciatum. At Bellejilain I 

 captured specimens resembling my Tinicum spitiulosum, but with a less distinct 

 ruddy tinge on the tegmina. These are j)robably the species called validum in 

 the N. J. St. Mus. Rej). They all come close to O. niqripes Scudder, l)ut differ 

 from it in lacking the characteristic black tibi;r of the latter. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



area, frequenting Scirpus americanus and associated plants (Fox); 

 Anglesea (Fox); Cape May (Fox); Goshen (Fox). 



0. Campestre Blatrhley. 



General Range. — Rather uncertain; described from Indiana 

 and since reported, to my knowledge, from Minnesota and New 

 Jersey. 



Local Distribution. — ^Probably scarce, reported, so far as I am 

 aware, only from the Coastal District. 



Ecological Distribution. — Have no local data. In Indiana, 

 according to Blatchley, it occurs "in the tall grasses of low prairie 

 meadows." 



Locality Records. — 



Coastal District. — Tuckerton (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.); Cape May 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



0. minor Bruner. 



General Range. — Occurs, so far as I have been able to find 

 records, in New Jersey, North Carolina and Georgia. 



Local Distribution. — Apparent^ rather uncommon; most 

 regular in the Pine Barrens, occasional in the Middle District. 



Ecological Distribution. — An arboreal species, reported as 

 occurring on pine (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District.— Belair (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.). 



Pine Barrens. — Helmetta (Davis) ; Jamesburg (Davis) ; Lake- 

 hurst (Davis) ; Browns Mills Junction (Daecke) ; Atsion (Hebard) ; 

 Staff ords Forge (Hebard). 



0. fidicinium Rehn and Hebard. 



General Range. — So far as known, includes from New Jersey 

 to Florida along the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Common in suitable locations in the 

 Coastal District. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of the tall, reedy 

 growths of Spartina glabra along watercourses in the salt marshes. 

 Apparently a purely halophilous species. 



Locality Records. — 



Coastal District. — Staten Island (Davis) ; Tuckerton (Davis) ; 

 Chestnut Neck, Atlantic Co. (Rehn) ; Ocean View (Fox) ; Sea Isle 

 City (Fox) ; Townsend Inlet (Fox) ; Avalon (Fox) ; Piermont (Fox) ; 

 Anglesea (Rehn) ; Goshen (Fox). 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



XIPHIDIUM Serville (= Conocephalus Thunb.). 

 X. fasciatum De Geer. 



General Range. — Very widely distributed from Canada to the 

 Gulf, and, according to Redt'enbacher, as cited by Blatchley, through 

 South America to Argentina. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in suitable locations in the 

 Middle and Coastal Districts; frequent, but rather local, in the 

 Piedmont Region. In my experience it is uncommon in the Pine 

 Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution. — Most typical of low, moist areas 

 overgrown with low, succulent grasses, sedges and rushes; especially 

 plentiful in the Juncus gerardU zone along the edges of the salt 

 marsh, but not normally found on true salt marsh. Occasionally 

 found in quite dry situations, as in hillside pastures where there is a 

 good growth of the low rush, Juncus tenuis. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Rockville 

 (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Camphill (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Rock Hill 

 (Fox) ; Perkasie, on pastured hillside in Juncus tenuis (Fox) ; 

 Collegeville, in stream meadows (Fox) ; Mt. Airy, in small grassy 

 bog (Fox); Pink Hill (Fox); Swarthmore (A. N. S.). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn and Hebard) ; Elmwood, in 

 Tinicum meadows (Fox) ; Paschalville, in Tinicum meadows (Fox) ; 

 Essington (Fox); Newcastle (Fox). 



Washington Park (Fox); Blackwood (Fox); Medford (Stone); 

 Clementon (Fox) ; Jericho, in stream meadow (Fox) ; Canton (Fox) ; 

 Dorchester (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Taunton (Stone) ; Penbryn, rare on cranberry 

 bog (Fox); Atsion (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Chestnut Neck, Atlantic 

 Co. (Rehn); Petersburg (Fox); Tuckahoe, low lands along river 

 (Fox) ; Ocean View (Fox) ; Sea Lsle City (Fox) ; Townsend Inlet 

 (Fox); Avalon (Fox); Piermont (Fox); Cape May (Fox); Cape 

 May Point (Fox) ; Goshen (Fox) ; Dennisville, edge of salt marsh 

 (Fox). 



Cape Maij Diferior. — Sea Isle Junction, edge of Great Cedar 

 Swamp, scarce (Fox). 

 X. brevipenne Scudder.^s 



General Range. — Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, east of the 

 Plains. 



^'^ Iticludcs X . I'lisifcnini Scudd. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



Local Distribution. — Common in suitable locations in the 

 Appalachian and Piedmont Districts; freciuent, but rather more 

 local in the Middle and Coastal Districts. Relatively infrequent or 

 local in the Pine Barrens. Apparently absent from the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — Most typical of wet or humid areas 

 covered with dense, succulent grasses; less frequent on dry ground 

 in dense, grassy thickets. Does not normally occur in salt marshes, 

 nor in Juncus gerardi and Scirpus americanus zones of the Submari- 

 time areas, but inhabits the more succulent, grassy tracts at places 

 where the Submaritime area merges into the upland. 



Locality Records. — 



Appalachia7i District. — Rockville (Pa. St. Dept. ZooL). 



Piedmont District. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.) ; Marysville 

 (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Dauphin (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.); Collegeville, 

 in damp meadows, ditches, pond borders, etc. (Fox); Valley Forge 

 (Fox); Ashbourne (Long); Mt. Airy (Fox); Germantown (Fox); 

 Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard) ; Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard) ; 

 Pink Hill, in stream meadow (Fox). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn and Hebard) ; West Philadel- 

 phia (Long); Elmwood, in Tinicum meadows (Fox); Paschalville 

 (Fox). 



Riverton (Viereck) ; Washington Park (Fox) ; Woodbury (Vier- 

 eck) ; Jericho, in grasses along narrow gutter in sandy barrens- 

 (Fox); Canton (Fox); Manumuskin, on Zizania on tidal flats (Fox); 

 ISIedford (Rehn). 



Pine Barrens. — Taunton (Rehn) ; Atsion (Rehn) ; Staffords 

 Forge (Rehn) ; Belleplain, in small cranberry bog, not common 

 (Fox); Mt. Pleasant, occasional in undergrowth of oak and pine 

 woods (Fox); Formosa Bog (Fox). 



Coastal District. — West Creek (Rehn) ; Petersburg, tract of succu- 

 lent grass above tidal meadows (Fox) ; Ocean View, local, in succulent, 

 grassy spots just above the salt marsh (Fox); Goshen, tall grass, 

 lowlands just above salt marsh (Fox); Dennisville, grassy thickets, 

 edge of the woods (Fox) ; Cold Spring, in low, grassy tangles bordering 

 Scirpus americanus swamp (Fox); Cape May Point, lake margin 

 (Fox). 



X. nemorale Sc-udder. 



General Range. — Appears to be largely northern, extending 

 from New York to Minnesota and Nebraska, south to central Penn- 

 sylvania and the Ohio River, in the mountains to North Carolina. 



Local Distribution.^ — Apparently rare and very local, occurring 

 35 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



only in the extreme northern part of New Jersey and not extendmg 

 much south of the lower limits of the Appalachian Region of Penn- 

 ■sylvania. 



Ecological Distribution. — I know of no record of its habitats 

 in our region. According to Lugger, it prefers the borders of forests, 

 frequenting the low bushes in such locations. In Indiana I have 

 found it in similar situations. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Highspire (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.) ; Middletown 

 (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.). 



Eastern slope of the Palisades (Beutenmiiller) . 



X, Strictum Scudder. 



General Range. — Largely Austral in range, extending from New 

 Jersey to Texas, north in the interior to Illinois, Minnesota and 

 Nebraska. 



Local Distribution. — Locally not infrequent in the Piedmont 

 Plateau; quite common in the lower half of the Middle District 

 and the Coastal Strip, rare or accidental on the beaches. Apparently 

 very local in cultivated sections of the Pine Barrens. 



Ecological Distribution.— A xerophilous species, characteristic 

 of dry, open grasslands. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Harrisburg (Pa. St. Dept. Zool.) ; Valley 

 Forge (Fox) ; Mt. Airy (Daecke) ; Ashbourne (Long) ; Fern Hill 

 (Rehn and Hel)ard); Castle Rock (Rehn and Hebard); Pink Hill, 

 in grass on dry hillsides (Fox). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn and Hebard) ; Elmwood, in 

 Tinicum meadows, frequenting dry, grassy areas (Fox) ; Paschalville 

 (Fox); Essington (Fox). 



Washington Park, sandy areas in bunch grasses, etc. (Fox); 

 Almonesson, in open, sandy field, frequenting grassy thickets (Fox) ; 

 Canton, dry, grassy uplands near salt marsh (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Taunton (Stone) ; Atsion (Hebard) ; head of 

 Tuckahoe River (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Staten Island (Davis); Petersburg (Fox); 

 Ocean View, common in upland situations in coarse grasses and 

 weeds (Fox) ; Avalon, 1 female, no others observed (Fox) ; Cape 

 May, scarce, noted only one individual (Fox); Cape May Point 

 (Fox); Goshen (Fox). 



Cape May Interior. — Sea Isle Junction, in grassy scrub (Fox); 

 Ocean View Cemetery (Fox) ; S. Seaville, mostly in old fields and in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



roadside vegetation (Fox); near Dennisville (Fox); Clermont 

 (Fox). 



X. saltans Scudder. 



General Range. — Canadian Provinces to the Gulf States, west 

 to Minnesota, Nebraska and Kansas. 



Local Distribution. — Apparently quite rare and local ; has been 

 taken locally in all districts, except Appalachian and Highlands. 

 I know of no records of its occurrence on the beaches. 



Ecological Distribution. — On the single occasion when I 

 encountered this species I found it on dry uplands in grassy tangles 

 like those frequented by the preceding species. 



Locality Records. — 



Piedmont Plateau. — Fern Hill (Rehn and Hebard). 



Middle District. — Cornwalls (Rehn and Hebard). 



Riverton (Viereck) . 



Pine Barrens. — Browns Mills Junction (Daecke); Atsion 

 (Hebard). 



Coastal District. — Ocean View, rare (Fox). 



I 



X. spartinse Fox. 



General Range. — Southern Massachusetts to New Jersey and 

 probably to Florida along the coast. 



Local Distribution. — Abundant in the Coastal District on salt 

 marshes; occasional inland along tidal streams. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of salt marshes, where 

 it frequents the short variety of Spartina glabra that covers the tidal 

 flats between the watercourses. Less frequent in the Submaritime 

 zone. Doubtless extends inland in small numbers along tide-water 

 streams as one was taken in the rice grass {Zizania) on tidal flats 

 of Manumuskin Creek. 



Locality Records. — 



Middle District. — Canton, edge of salt marsh (Fox) ; Manumuskin, 

 in Zizania (Fox). 



Coastal District. — Atlantic City, salt marsh (Rehn, originally re- 

 ported as "nemorale" and later as "hrevipenrie," see Ent. News, 1902 

 and 1904); Palermo (Fox) in salt marsh; Ocean View, salt marsh 

 (Fox) ; Sea Isle City (Fox) ; Avalon (Fox) ; Piermont (Fox) ; Angle- 

 sea (Fox); Cape May (Fox); Dennisville, salt marsh (Fox). 



X. nigropleuroides Fox. 



General Range. — New Jersey to Florida along the coast. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Local Distribution. — Frequent in salt marshes, to which it is 

 apparently restricted. 



Ecological Distribution. — Characteristic of the reed-like fringes 

 of Spartina glabra along the watercourses, in which it is associated 

 with Orchelimum fidicinium. 



Locality Records. — 



Coastal District. — Ocean View (Fox) ; Townsend Inlet (Fox) ; 

 Avalon (Fox); Piermont (Fox); Goshen (Fox); between Goshen 

 and Dennisville (Fox). 



ATLANTICUS Scudder. 

 A. dorsalis Burm. 

 A. pachymerus Burm. 



General Range. — New England to the Gulf States, west to 

 Minnesota. 



Local Distribution.^ — Moderately frequent in suitable locations 

 in all districts, except the Cape May Peninsula and the beaches, in 

 which it is either rare or lacking. 



Ecological Distribution. — Sylvan, frequenting the undergrowth 

 of open woodlands. 



Locality Records. — 



Highlands. — Greenwood Lake (Beutenmliller) ; Newfoundland 

 (Davis). 



Piedmont Plateau. — Ashbourne (Long); Guthriesville (Rehn and 

 Hebard) ; Newtown Square (Rehn and Hebard) . 



Middle District. — Woodbridge (Davis); Jericho (Fox). 



Pine Barrens. — Lakehurst (N. J. St. Mus. Rep.) ; Lahaway (N. J. 

 St. Mus. Rep.); Browns Mills Junction (Daecke;) Staffords Forge 

 (N. J. St. Mus. Rep). 



Coastal District. — Tuckerton (Davis); Dennisville (Davis). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



CERTAIN FEATURES OF SOLENOGASTRE DEVELOPMENT. 

 BY HAROLD HEATH. 



The solenogastres comprise a group of worm-like organisms which 

 for a full half-century have held an unsettled systematic position in 

 zoological literature. Certain features of their organization remind 

 one strongly of the mollusks; others apparently relate them to the 

 worms; and accordingly their classification has depended upon the 

 relative importance given to these resemblances. Numerous works 

 have appeared treating of their anatonw, but up to the present time 

 our knowledge of their development has been confined to two brief 

 papers by Pruvot ('90, '92). The observations therein recorded 

 are so unique in several respects that they have influenced the 

 problem in a negative way only, making it appear that in the devel- 

 opment of these organisms we have to deal with matters not closely 

 related to other animals. It has been my good fortune to be able 

 to study a small collection of solenogastre embryos, and I shall 

 endeavor to show that as a matter of fact the development is very 

 clearlj^ molluscan. 



In a report on the solenogastres of the North Pacific (Heath, '11), 

 a species, Halomenia gravida, was described which carried about 

 twenty-five embryos, in various stages of development, between the 

 branchial folds in the cloacal chamber. These were discovered only 

 after the adult was sectioned, but a careful study of sections and 

 reconstructions has rendered the course of development fairly clear 

 from the one cell stage to the point where the mid-gut, stomodseum, 

 foot and nervous system are distinctly outlined. 



At the outset it is well to state that one of the most striking fea- 

 tures of solenogastre development is the presence of a vast test, or 

 coat of ciliated cells, which envelops the larva until the metamorphosis, 

 masks the internal structures and so distorts certain details of the 

 development that it may well have appeared to Pruvot and other 

 authors that these animals are unique. I . am decidedly of the 

 opinion that Drew ( '99) was correct in regarding the test as a modified 

 velum. It is enormous assuredly, but in its relations to other organs 

 and the fact that in several other animals it is shed at the time of 

 the metamorphosis certainly points to more than a superficial resem- 




536 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



blance. In Yoldia, Teredo and Ischnochiton, for example, the velum 

 is ultimately discarded, and a study of the diagrams (fig. 1) will 

 serve to show that the differences between the development of the 

 solenogastres and the chitons are in large measure due to the size 

 of the test or velum. Whether or not this is a fundamental fact 

 depends upon the history of the early blastomeres, which is lacking 

 at the present time; nevertheless, there are many indications that 

 the two classes of animals have descended from a common ancestor. 



Fig. 1. — Diagrams illustrating the development of the primary germ layers in 

 the chitons (A, B) and solenogastres (C, D). h, cells producing the cerebral 

 ganglia; g, archenteron; st, stomodseum; t, test cells. Such devices as stip- 

 pling, cross-hatching and parallel diagonal lines indicate homologous regions. 



The egg of Halomenia gravida is a spherical body, densely and 

 uniformly packed with yolk, and is surrounded before it leaves the 

 ovotestis with a distinct vitelline membrane. In the earliest stage 

 represented at least one polar body is distinctly visible, and imme- 

 diately beneath it the female pronucleus is clearly defined. Close 

 to the equator of the egg another nucleus, probably the male pro- 

 nucleus, appears with equal distinctness. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



In the next stags segmentation has commenced, resulting in 28 

 cells of approximately equal size. There is no sign of a blastocele 

 or any signs of differentiation. In the succeeding stage fully 100 cells 

 are present and size differences are apparent, Init while a slight 

 elongation defines the antero-posterior axis of the larva, the absence 

 of blastocele and stomodaeum renders it difficult to accurately define 

 the ventral and dorsal surfaces. 



In the following stage the differentiation of the test has com- 

 menced and, judging from two larvse where the polar bodies remain 

 attached, it extends over the greater portion of the dorsal surface and 

 to a considerable extent of the ventral as well (fig. 1, C). The 

 remaining cells, those destined to form the future animal, are thus 

 in large measure enclosed. The cells not included in the test but 

 bordering upon the surface are, generally speaking, of smaller size 

 than those upon the interior (in one specimen this is more marked 

 than in the one figured), but there is up to this time no clear differen- 

 tiation into ectoderm and endoderm. In the mid-ventral line, in 

 immediate contact with the border of the test, are slender elements 

 (st) that represent the first stages in the formation of the stomodaeum. 

 The comparatively thin cells (C, 5) in the neighborhood of the polar 

 body (not represented) are a constant feature and evidently furnish 

 the material for the development of the cerebral ganglia. 



In later stages (as in D) the various regions of the body are dis- 

 tinctly outlined, and to some extent the digestive and nervous 

 systems have been sketched in. The stomodaeum is clearly differen- 

 tiated and the mid-gut is outlined, though its constituent cells and 

 cavity are not as yet in an advanced state of development. The 

 cerebral ganglia comprise large masses of cells forming a group 

 anterior to the stomodaeum. Posteriorly, these divide, encircle the 

 stomodaeum and extend along the ventral surface to the posterior 

 end of the body. At various points in the trunk region between the 

 gut and body wall or test there are a few scattered cells, yolk-laden 

 and accordingly distinguishable from the ganglionic products. They 

 probably are mesoblastic elements. 



At the posterior end of the body is a ring of cells, ciliated in Myzo- 

 menia, that enclose a depressed area bordered in the earliest recog- 

 nizable stage by relatively slender cells. These last-named elements 

 appear to divide repeatedly and become transformed into a group of 

 cells bordering upon the surface and on the other hand passing 

 without a sharp line of demarcation into the ganglionic cords. In 

 the oldest stage represented the nerve cord appears to be completely 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



cut off from, though in contact with, a fairly distinct group of cells 

 bordering the surface of the body. It thus appears that the cells 

 enclosed by the ring of larger cells become transformed into a sense 

 organ, perhaps the dorso-terminal sense organ known to occur in 

 many solenogastres. 



In the latest stages the test becomes considerably reduced in size 

 and the trunk gains proportionately in prominence. This increase 

 in the extent of the trunk appears to be wholly due to the division 

 of definite ectoderm trunk cells and not to any products supplied 

 by the test. Measurements show conclusively that the test cells 

 gradually shrink in bulk, probably due to the absorption of their 

 nutritive products, and karyokinetic spindles indicate activity on 

 the part of the trunk ectoderm. To what extent this proceeds it is 

 impossible to state. In early stages there is one, possibly two cells 

 situated immediately beneath the cells (fig. 1, C, b) that I believe 

 furnish the material for the cerebral ganglia. In later stages there 

 are indications that this deeper seated cell has undergone a few divis- 

 ions, and the resulting products occupy the space (fig. 1, D) between 

 the alimentary canal, cerebral ganglia and test cells of the head 

 region. They may possibly represent mesoblastic products, but 

 their relatively large size (for the sake of clearness, they are smaller 

 in the diagram than in reality) and their position suggests that they 

 may supply the material for the head epidermis as the test recedes. 



Turning now to the development of the species described by 

 Pruvot, we find that especially in Proneomenia aglaophenioe the early 

 development follows essentially the same path as in Halomenia. 

 In the other species, Myzomenia banyulensis, there is a decided 

 difference in the size of the cells during the early cleavages, but in 

 both cases the close of segmentation finds the larvse constructed 

 upon the same plan. The test is evidently of greater size than in 

 Halomenia and more completely envelops the remaining cells so 

 that they are hidden in lateral view, but the arrangement of the 

 cells is evidently quite similar to that shown in diagram C. The 

 enclosed elements are supposed to be endodermal in character, and 

 the region (depressed in the species studied by Pruvot) bordered 

 by the test is termed the blastopore. I believe both of these state- 

 ments are incorrect as I shall now attempt to demonstrate. 



Generally speaking, the velum of the trochozoa forms only an 

 insignificant portion of the ectoderm. In the solenogastres it has 

 expanded to such an extent that it comes in contact with the cells 

 destined to form the cerebral ganglia, and posteriorly it forms a 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



considerable portion of the trunk as well. But the important fact 

 remains that in Halomenia the position of the stomodseum, which 

 marks the position of the blastopore, is unmistakable and, as the 

 diagrams show, it is located immediately behind the border of the 

 test on the ventral surface. Furthermore, the diagrams illustrate 

 the fact that there remain many other exposed cells bounded by the 

 test, and these become directly transformed into the trunk ectoderm. 

 In other words, diagram C is a gastrula stage just as certainly as 

 diagram A, the main differences in the solenogastres being correlated 

 with an epibolic type of gastrulation and the enormous size of the 

 velum. The accurate details of the process are lacking and close 

 comparisons are not possible at present, but the important fact is 

 certainly clear that the cells enclosed by the test are not all endoderm 

 and the blastopore is small and typically situated. 



In later stages certain developmental processes are described that 

 rest in part upon the assumption that all of the region bounded by 

 the test represents the blastopore. In this depressed area the cells 

 are stated to form, by a species of delamination, the future definitive 

 ectoderm and endoderm. The outer layer, circumscribed by the 

 test, now represents the trunk ectoderm, and in it three invaginations 

 soon appear. One of these remains open and becomes the procto- 

 dseum, while the other two soon close and are transformed into 

 mesoblastic bands. Still later the borders of the proctodeum 

 (evidently the large terminal cells of the trunk that form a ring as in 

 D) are said to develop into a sort of caudal button (bouton caudal) 

 that at first projects into the blastocele. Finally the button becomes 

 evaginated and with the trunk ectoderm protrudes beyond the 

 borders of the test. 



In commenting upon these observations it is to be noted that a 

 depression exists in Halomenia within the terminal ring-like group 

 of large cells, but it is in no way connected with the endoderm. 

 No sign of a proctodseum is evident at this time nor has it put in an 

 appearance in a stage considerably beyond the one represented in 

 diagram D. The caudal button is evidently the group of cells that 

 in Halomenia develops from the cells enclosed by the large cells of 

 the terminal ring. As already noted, these at first project into the 

 blastocele, then flatten out, and exposed to the surface are connected 

 with the ventral ganglionic cords. The mesoblast bands are evi- 

 dently these same cords, as will appear more clearly in connection 

 with the cerebral ganglia. 



In the anterior half of the embryo three invaginations now appear 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



in the test cells on the ventral side. The median one, of a transitory 

 character, is said to represent the stomodseum, but as a stomodseum 

 exists in Halomenia in the normal position I am strongly of the opinion 

 that Pruvot is in error regarding this point. The lateral invagina- 

 tions unite, forming a transverse band, and posteriorly are prolonged 

 to meet the mesoblastic bands of the trunk. Some of the more 

 dorsal elements constitute the cerebral ganglia. In addition, the 

 ectoderm of the head appears to arise wholly from these same lateral 

 invaginations. Such an origin of mesoblast elements is certainly 

 unique, and I have only to state that I believe this entire group is 

 ganglionic. Its posterior union with the ventral cords certainly 

 indicates its nervous character. The anterior enlargements, the 

 future cerebral ganglia, are of unusual size in Halomenia, but there 

 is nothing whatever to indicate that they comprise any mesoblastic 

 elements. Furthermore, there is nothing in Halomenia to suggest 

 the development of head ectoderm from any of these cells; and the 

 counter theory, that at least in part it may arise from one or two 

 large cells located beneath the cells responsible for the development 

 of the cerebral ganglia, has been noted in a preceding paragraph.^ 



If on the basis of comparative anatomy it is impossible at the 

 present time to definitely place the solenogastres in their proper 

 systematic position, it is obvious that this is more emphatically true 

 where scanty embryological data are the sole criterion. However, 

 it is evident that their development is more in accord with what we 

 find among the moUusks than with any other phylum. The resem- 

 blance of the embryo shortly before its metamorphosis is strikingly 

 similar, in several important details, to Yoldia or Dentalium or to 

 the chitons if we neglect size differences with respect to the test. 

 Plate ( '92) has shown that there are good reasons for the belief, long 

 ago expressed by Blainville ('25), that the scaphopods are most 

 closely related to the prosobranchs rather than to the lamellibranchs. 

 The excessively developed tests encountered in certain species of 

 the first- and last-named classes are therefore not of fundamental 

 importance, and furthermore its small size in the chitons is accord- 

 ingly not a serious obstacle to the theory expressed by several authors 

 that the solenogastres and the chitons are derivatives of a common 

 ancestor. Such a conclusion has Ijeen based almost entirely on 



1 A full account of tho development of Halomenia will appear in connection 

 with a report on the solenogastres from the eastern coast of the United States, 

 but as considerable time must elapse before its completion it has seemed desirable 

 to publish this preliminary account. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



anatomical evidence. Whether it Avill stand the test from the 

 standpoint of embryology can only be decided when our knowledge 

 is more complete^ / 



Literature Cited. 



Blaixville, D. de. Manuel de Malacologie, 1825. 



Drew, G. A. The Anatomy, Habits and Embryology of Yoldia limatula Say. 



Mem. Biol. Laboratory Johns Hopkins Univ., Vol. 4, No. 3, 1899. 

 Heath, H. The Solenogastres. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harvard Univ., Vol. 



45, 1911. 

 Plate, L. Ueber den Ban imd die Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen der Soleno- 



conchen. Zool. Jahrb., Abth. f. Anat. u. Ontog., Bd. 5, 1892. 

 Pruvot, G. Sur le developpement d'lm Solenogastre. Comp. Rend. Acad. Sci. 



Paris, Tome III, 1890. 

 Sur I'embryogenie d'une Proneomenia. Ibid., Tome 114, 1892. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



the scent-producing organ of the honey bee. 

 by n. e. mcindoo, ph.d. 

 Introduction. 



Bee keepers well know that bees have an odor, but they do not 

 know how the odor is produced, nor do they know the role played by 

 the various odors of the honey bee. It is reported that Nassonoff 

 first described the morphology of the scent-producing organ of the 

 honey bee. His original work in Russian cannot be had here, but, 

 according to Zoubareff (1883), Nassonoff did not describe the struc- 

 ture of this organ as seen by the writer, and he suggested that the 

 gland cells of the organ produce perspiration. Sladen (1902) called 

 this organ a "scent-producing organ," but did nothing more than to 

 describe the articular membrane between the fifth and sixth abdomi- 

 nal terga of worker bees. 



This paper deals entirely with the morphology of the scent- 

 producing organ. The work dealing with the odors produced by 

 this organ and the significance of these odors will be reported 

 separately. 



Fresh material was stained slightly with a weak solution of methylin 

 green, and the cells were studied while still alive. Material was 

 also fixed in Carnoy's fluid (equal parts of absolute alcohol, chloro- 

 form, and glacial acetic acid, with corrosive sublimate to excess). 

 The double method of embedding m paraffin and celloidin was 

 employed. Sections were cut 10 micra thick and they were stained 

 with Ehrlich's hamatoxylin and eosin, and with safranin and gentian 

 violet. 



1. Structure. 



Sometimes when a worker honey bee, that is fanning, is carefully 

 observed, a transverse white stripe near the end of the abdomen may 

 be seen. This white stripe (fig. 1, At^tM) is the articular membrane 

 between the fifth and sixth abdominal terga (propodeum not counted). 

 It is visible only when the last abdominal segment is bent downward. 

 The anterior half of this membrane is folded under the posterior edge 

 of the fifth abdominal tergum, making a pouch or canal (fig. 1, Can). 

 The canal encircles about one half of the abdomen and terminates 

 on either side of the abdomen just above the articulation of the 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



543 



tergum and sternum (fig. 1, ECan). The diameter of the canal is 

 greatest at the median line of the abdomen and gradually diminishes 

 to zero at each end. 



Fig. 1.- — Diagram of a transverse-longitudinal view of end of abdomen of a 

 worker honey bee, showing the internal anatomy of the fifth and sixth 

 segments, and also the scent-producing organ composed of the articular 

 membrane {ArtM), the canal {Can), chitinous tubes (Tw) and gland cells 

 (GIC). The last segment is bent downward more than ever seen in the 

 living bee. That is, in the living bee only the part marked ArtM is seen 

 externally and the canal (Can) is never seen. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Fig. 2 is a diagram of the articular membrane, removed from the 

 abdomen and spread out flat under a low-power lens. This membrane 

 . in the living bee is shiny and appears to be covered with a trans- 

 parent liquid. The anterior margin of the membrane is bordered 

 by small barbed hairs (fig. 2, a) on the fifth tergum, and the posterior 

 margin is bordered by smaller spinelike hairs (fig. 2, h) on the sixth 

 tergum. The chitin of the posterior portion (fig. 2, PostP) of this 

 membrance is thinner than is the chitin of the tergum, but it is 

 strengthened near its centre by a narrow and heavy vein (figs. 1 and 

 2, e), and at its anterior margin there is a heavier and much wider 

 vein (figs. 1 and 2, d). 



The chitin of the anterior portion (fig. 2, AntP) of the membrane 

 is much thinner than is that of the posterior portion. It is quite 

 flexible and for this reason may be easily folded to form the canal. 

 Instead of it being perfectly smooth, as is the posterior portion of 

 the membrane, its surface is covered with innumerable minute, 

 narrow, groovelike indentations. These may be comparatively 

 long or short, bent, tortuous, or straight and seemingly extend half 

 way through the chitin. The small lines in fig. 2, c, represent their 

 arrangement and fig. 3 represents a few of them seen under a high 

 magnification. Of course, they are not slits passing entirely through 

 the chitin, but they are grooves and pass about one half through 

 the membrane. 



Looking through the chitin of the posterior portion (fig. 2, PostP) 

 of the articular membrane, at a deeper focus, may be seen many 

 round cells, each of which has a tube that runs to the surface of the 

 membrane. In fig. 2, 115 of these tubes with cells are shown, but 

 in all there are from 500 to 600. The majority of the tubes have 

 exits in the chitin between the two heavy veins (figs. 1, Plate XIX, 

 and 2, d and c), but none of them has an exit in the chitin of the 

 anterior portion (AntP) of the membrane. The place where these 

 tubes empty is best seen in fig. 1, Tu. It is thus seen that the tubes 

 unite with the posterior wall of the canal which is formed by the 

 heavy chitin between d and e in figs. 1 and 2. The bottom and 

 anterior wall of the canal are formed by the anterior portion of the 

 articular membrane. 



Fig. 4 represents four of the cells and several of the tubes seen 

 under a high-power lens, a represents comparatively thin and almost 

 transparent chitin; b is a narrow, thick, and yellow band of chitin; 

 c is a thick, semitransparent band of chitin; d is a wide, thick, and 

 opaque band of chitin; e is thick, semitransparent chitin. It is 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



thus seen that the cells lie beneath the thinnest portion of the chitin 

 belonging to the posterior part of the articular membrane, and that 

 their exits lie in the thickest portion of this chitin. A transparent 

 area (Plate XIX, fig. 4, Amp) was seen in many of the cells, and a 

 tube (fig. 4, Tu) runs into each of these areas. 



In order to study these cells in a living state more carefully, the 

 articular membranes including the tissues adhering to them were 

 removed from worker bees. This material was placed on a slide 

 in a weak solution of methylin green. The cells adhering to the 

 chitin were teased apart and a few of them with their tubes were 

 separated from the mass of cells and chitin. Such a treatment, 

 however, almost always pulls the internal ends of the tubes out of 

 the cells, whereupon the transparent areas disappear immediately. 

 The tubes are then attached only at their peripheral ends. 



The cells vary considerably in size. They are either spherical 

 or ovoid in shape. Fig. 5 represents one of the largest ovoid cells. 

 It is typical and was drawn with the aid of a camera lucida while 

 still alive, being stained very slightly with methylin green. The 

 large nucleus has a heavy wall, and it stands out conspicuously. 

 The nucleoli with heavy walls stain green. The cytoplasm in the 

 centre of the nucleus has a faint green color, while that near the 

 periphery of the nucleus is semitransparent. The wall of the cell 

 is thin. The cytoplasm of the cell is more or less transparent. It 

 is granular and appears to have innumerable minute clear spots 

 (CIS). In the broader end of the cell lies the ovoid, transparent 

 area, which may be called the ampulla (Amp). The tube {Tu) 

 tejminates at the centre of the ampulla. The ampulla seems to have 

 many lines or streaks which radiate from the periphery toward the 

 centre, and these radial streaks (RadStr) stop short of the centre and 

 leave a perfectly transparent, ovoid area (TrA) at the centre of 

 the ampulla. 



Judging from the structure of these cells, we must call them 

 gland cells, but when observed hurriedly they may be mistaken for 

 oenocytes. As a rule, the oenocytes are smaller than the gland cells, 

 but nevertheless many of them are as large as many of the gland 

 cells. Only a few oenocytes may be found among the mass of gland 

 cells, but they are quite abundant on all sides of the gland cells- 

 Fig. 6 represents a typical large oenocyte, still alive and stained 

 slightly with a weak solution of methylin green. The following 

 may be used to distinguish a gland cell from an oenocyte. An 

 oenocyte is never connected with a tube. It never has an ampulla. 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Its cytoplasm is less granular. It is always partially, and some- 

 times almost totally, filled with globules {Glo). 



Chiefly on account of its size, a fat cell should never be mistaken 

 for a gland cell. Fat cells are always larger, and sometimes several 

 times larger, than these gland cells. They are found on all sides 

 of the mass of gland cells, but seldom among them. Their structure 

 is similar to that of cenocytes, but the globules are much larger, 

 more conspicuous and are so abundant that the nucleus is scarcely 

 visible. Fig. 7 represents a small fat cell, still alive and stained 

 slightly with a weak solution of methylin green. 



To ascertain if the tubes connecting the gland cells with the chitin 

 are composed of chitin, articular membranes removed from the 

 abdomens of workers were placed a few hours into a saturated solu- 

 tion of caustic potash. When all the adhering tissues had disin- 

 tegrated, the membranes were cleaned with water and a pencil 

 brush. In all cases the tubes were left attached to the membranes. 

 This proves that they are chitinous. To determine how they 

 terminate in the articular membrane, one of the membranes treated 

 ^vith caustic potash was sectioned. The sections show that the 

 canal of the tube opens freely to the exterior (fig. 8, CanTu). 



Judged by the morphology, we may reasonably conclude that the 

 gland cells secrete a volatile substance throughout their cytoplasm. 

 This substance collects in the ampulla which serves as a reservoir, 

 and from the ampulla it passes through the chitinous tube to the 

 exterior where it runs into the canal. The groovelike indentations 

 in the chitin forming the canal may serve two purposes — (1) to give 

 more flexibility to the chitin, and (2) to retain the volatile secretion 

 and help prevent a too rapid evaporation of it. As long as the 

 abdomen is straight, the canal is well protected and the liquid cannot 

 evaporate rapidly, but when the abdomen is considerably ])ent, 

 the entire canal is more or less exposed to the outside air. 



2. Origin of Gland Cells. 



The scent-producing organs of several 15-day-old worker pupte 

 (counting from the time the eggs were laid) were sectioned. At 

 this stage the chitin (fig. 9, Ch) is just beginning to be formed, and 

 the hypoclermis (fig. 9, Hyp) is very thick. The fat cells (fig. 9, 

 FC) are also not yet completely differcmtiated. The hypodermal 

 cells (fig. 9, HyyC) are long and slender. Most of them near the 

 place where the wide and heavy vein (figs. 2, r/, and 9, v) is later 

 formed, break loose from the hypodcrnuil layer and migrate backward 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



till the majority of them lie posterior to the heavj' vein. In fig. 

 9, a, a row of them has broken loose from the hypodermal layer and 

 they are assuming the ovoid shape. At fig. 9, b, they are a little 

 farther advanced. In the 16-day-old stage the gland cells (fig. 10, 

 QIC) are much larger and lie just back of the heavy vein (fig. 10, v). 

 Now the chitinous tubes (fig. 10, Tu) are formed and they are con- 

 nected with the gland cells. 



3. Origin of Chitinous Tubes. 



In the 15-day-old stage may occasionally be seen hypodermal 

 cells having processes. Such cells lie at the place where the chitinous 

 tubes later appear. One of these cells (fig. 11a) has a large and 

 conspicuous nucleus. The growing point of the process appears to 

 have no cell wall. Twelve hours later the hypodermal cells (fig. 116) 

 forming the tubes have become much smaller, no doubt because of 

 the formation of long processes. It seems that the more the processes 

 grow in length, the more the cells diminish in size. Each hypodermal 

 cell, therefore, must serve as a storehouse for building a tube. When 

 the process is far advanced, its cytoplasm probably begins secreting 

 a substance which in a short time is transformed into the chitinous 

 tube. In fig. 116 the tube is developed and it is connected with the 

 exterior, but the cytoplasm surrounding the tube has not yet dis- 

 appeared. In a little later stage (fig. lie), the cytoplasm surrounding 

 the tube has all disappeared except a small process of the cell. The 

 tube is now connected with a gland cell. 



4. Development of Gland Cells. 



As already stated, the gland cells were originally hypodermal 

 cells (fig. 9, a and 6) which migrated from the hypodermal layer. 

 This migration occurs in worker pupse 15 days old. In 16-day-old 

 worker pupse these cells (fig. 10, GIC) are three or four times as large 

 as they are in the 15-day-old stage and they begin to resemble true 

 gland cells. In the 17-day-old stage they are still larger (fig. 12, 

 GIC). Their nuclei are extremely large and stain less densely than 

 does the cytoplasm with Ehrlich's hamatoxylin and eosin. By the 

 ninteenth day the gland cells (fig. 13, GIC) have enlarged but little 

 since the 17-day-old stage. In 21-day-old worker pupse (age at which 

 they emerge from their cells) the gland cells (fig. 14, GIC) seem to be 

 perfectly developed in all respects, except they are only about two- 

 thirds the size of the gland cells (fig. 15, GIC) in old worker bees. 

 36 




548 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



It is quite possible that the gland cells never function until the 

 bee has emerged. It seems reasonable, therefore, to regard the 

 rapid growth which takes place in these cells after the bees have 

 emerged to the fact that the gland cells suddenly begin to function. 



5. Scent-producing Organ of Queen. 



The articular membrane between the fifth and sixth abdominal 

 terga of a queen honey bee is never visible externally, except at the 

 instant when she bends her abdomen to sting an object beneath her. 

 Several of these articular membranes of queens were excised and 

 were examined in the same manner as already related for those of 

 workers. Gland cells and chitinous tubes are present in the same 

 position and arrangement as they are in workers. 



All the other articular membranes between the abdominal terga 

 in queens and workers were examined, but no chitinous tubes nor 

 gland cells were found. 



The gland cells (fig. 16a) in adult queens are at least one-third 

 larger than are those in adult workers (fig. 15, GIC) and in fixed and 

 stained sections they have the same structure. The gland cells • 

 (fig. 165) in pupee of queens also have the same structure as those in 

 pupae of workers. 



6. Does a Drone have a Scent-producing Organ? 



All the articular membranes between the abdominal terga of 

 several drones were excised and carefully examined. At no time did 

 the writer ever find chitinous tubes attached to any one of these 

 membranes and he never saw any cells adhering to the membranes 

 which resemble the gland cells already described. This does not mean 

 that drones do not have any scent-producing organs, because other 

 parts of the body and all the appendages were not examined for 

 glandular structures. Scent-producing organs in males of several 

 other insects have been described, so that such an organ may still 

 be found in drones. 



Sometimes when the abdomens of young drones are slightly 

 squeezed, a very thin and whitish liquid may be seen on the abdominal 

 articular membranes. At other times a clear liquid may be observed 

 on the articular membranes, particularly on those between the 

 fourth and fifth, and fifth and sixth abdominal terga. This clear 

 liquid has a saline taste, and in this respect resembles the blood of 

 drones. 




1914.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 549 



7. Discussion. 



A discussion of all the literature available pertaining to the scent- 

 producing organs of insects has been prepared, but since such a 

 long discussion cannot be presented here, only a brief outline will 

 l)e given. 



A review of the literature shows that the substance produced by 

 any scent -producing organ is secreted by unicellular glands which 

 as far as known are modified hypodermal cells. For description, 

 scent-producing organs may be divided into five types based on their 

 devices for disseminating the odor and for storing the secretion as 

 follows: (1) No special device for disseminating the odor or storing 

 the secretion; (2) gland cells associated with hairs and scales as a 

 means of scattering the odor more effectively; (3) ''evaginable" 

 sacs lined with hairs connected with gland cells as a device for storing 

 and distributing the odor; (4) articular membranes serving as 

 pouches for storing and preventing a too rapid evaporation of the 

 secretion; (5) specialized tubes and sacs acting as reservoirs for 

 storing and discharging the secretion. 



The first type is the simplest of all five types. It is best repre- 

 sented as unicellular glands uniformly distributed over the entire 

 body surface as found in some beetles (Tower, 1903). In the beetles 

 Dytiscus and Acilius unicellular glands lie just beneath the hypo- 

 dermis between the head and tergite of the prothorax (Plateau, 1876). 

 In the blister beetle, Meloe, are found unicellular glands beneath 

 the hypodermis on both sides of the femoro-tibial articulations 

 (Berlese, 1909). These gland cells are similar in structure to those 

 of the honey bee. Beneath the femoro-tibial articulation in Cam- 

 ponotus and the tibio-tarsal articulation in Formica, Schon (1911) 

 found unicellular glands. Beneath the hypodermis of the caruncles 

 of the Indian roach, Corydia, lie unicellular glands, also similar to 

 those of the bee (Klemensiewicz, 1882). In this type of scent- 

 producing organ the secretion passes through the chitinous tubes 

 to the exterior where it spreads over the surface of the' chitin sur- 

 rounding the exits of the tubes. 



In regard to spreading the secretion over a wider area, the secontl 

 type is much more highly developed than is the first type. This is 

 accomplished in most cases by the secretion spreading over the 

 surfaces of many large hairs arranged in tufts which may be expanded 

 into a fan-shaped figure. The hind tibiae of the male moth Hepialus 

 hecla are greatly swollen and are almost filled with large unicellular 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



glands, each of which communicates with a spatula-shaped hair 

 (Bertkau, 1882). In the male moth Phassus schamyl the hairs are 

 scalelike with the distal end of each scale divided into two or three 

 lobes (Deegener, 1905). The same kind of organ is found in the 

 male moths Syrichthus malvce and Pechipogon barhaUs (lUig, 1902). 

 In the latter species, instead of there being a tuft of hairs on each 

 hind tibia, each front tibia bears three tufts. In the male moth 

 Sphinx convolvuli a pair of lateral tufts of scalelike hairs is found at 

 the proximal end of the abdomen (Tozzetti, 1870). In the female 

 moths Tauniatopoca pinivora and Stilpnotia salicis the scent-producing 

 organ is a large paired tuft of hairs on both sides and above the anus 

 (Freiling, 1909). In many male butterflies, the scent scales on the 

 wings serve as scent-producing organs (Miiller, 1877). Each scale 

 is connected with a unicellular gland (Thomas, 1893; Illig, 1902). 

 In the second type of scent-producing organ, the secretion from the 

 gland cells passes into the hairs and scales and then spreads over 

 their surfaces, whereby the odor from the secretion is more effectively 

 disseminated. 



In regard to storing the odor in an "evaginable" sac, the third 

 type is a little farther advanced than the second type. In the male 

 butterflies Danais and Eiiplcea the scent-producing organ consists 

 of two large chitinous invaginated sacs, lined with scalelike hairs. 

 One of these sacs lies on either side of the abdomen and opens between 

 the seventh and eighth sterna (Illig, 1902). In the female butterfly 

 Gonopteryx rhamni this organ is a single invaginated sac, but in the 

 female of Euplcea it consists of a circle of scalelike hairs around the 

 anus and of a pair of invaginated sacs, lined with hairs as usual 

 (Freiling, 1909). Each hair is connected with a unicellular gland. 

 The sacs are evaginated by blood pressure and retracted by muscles. 

 It is thus seen that the odorous substance may be more or less 

 retained in the invaginated sacs, but when the sacs are evaginated, 

 like the fingers of a glove, all the odor escapes. 



In regard to storing the secretion, the fourth type is more highly 

 organized than any one of the preceding tyi)es of scent-producing 

 organs. In the roach Periplafieta oricntalis this organ consists of a 

 pair of shallow pouches in the articular membrane between the 

 fifth and sixth abdominal terga. The pouches are covered by the 

 fifth tergum, but open to the exterior by a pair of slit-shaped open- 

 ings. They are lined with hairs, each of which connects with a 

 unicellular gland (Minchin, 1888). In the sexually matured male 

 roach Phyllodromia germanica there are two double pouches, one 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



of which is located in the articular membrane between the fifth and 

 sixth and the other between the sixth and seventh abdominal terga. 

 These pouches are not lined with hairs. The tubes from the uni- 

 cellular glands carry the secretion directly to the pouch where it is 

 forced to the exterior by muscles constricting the lumen of the pouch 

 (Oettingcr, 190()). In the female moth Orgyia anliqua the scent- 

 producing organ is a shallow pouch in the articular membrane 

 between the eighth and ninth abdominal terga. The unicellular 

 glands lie in groups like several bunches of grapes just beneath the 

 thin membrane. Freiling (1909) saw no tubes connecting the 

 gland cells with this membrane. He thinks that the secretion 

 passes through the membrane by infiltration. In the petiole of 

 the worker ant of Myrmica rubra, Janet (1898) found an invaginated 

 chamber. At the bottom of the chamber may be seen the exits of 

 the tubes which lead to the launch of unicellular glands. He also 

 found in the same ant two small groups of unicellular glands beneath 

 the articular membrane between the ninth and tenth abdominal 

 terga. These glands are also connected with tubes which run to 

 the exterior. Both of these organs may possibly be scent-producing 

 organs. The wax glands of young worker l^ees may also have such 

 a function. Each of these unicellular glands is nothing more than 

 a hypodermal cell modified for secreting a substance which passes 

 through many minute pores in the thick chitin of the abdominal 

 segment. After coming in contact with the external air the substance 

 changes to wax. In Apis these glands lie beneath the second, 

 third, fourth, and fifth al)donnnal sterna, in Melipona beneath the 

 last four abdominal terga, in Trigona beneath the last five abdominal 

 terga, but in Bombus beneath both the abdominal sterna and terga 

 (Dreyling, 1906). 



The scent-producing organ of the honey bee belongs to the fourth 

 type, and it is probably the most highly developed organ of this type. 

 Nassonoff thought that the chitinous tubes ran into the bottom of 

 the canal, chiefly formed by the anterior portion of the articular 

 membrane, instead of them uniting with the posterior wall of the 

 canal. If they united with the bottom of the canal, they would 

 materially affect the flexibility of the membrane. Zoubareff (1883) 

 imagines that the gland cells in this organ of the bee secrete the 

 little drops of liquid which bees are said to let fall when flying. He 

 thinks that these drops represent the excess of water contained in 

 freshly gathered nectar over that in ripened honey. 



In regard to storing and discharging the secretion as a means of 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



defence, the fifth type of scent-producing organ is the most highly 

 organized of all five types. For storing the secretion, the ear-wig 

 has two pairs of reservoirs in the third and fourth abdominal terga 

 (Vossler, 1890). Both sexes of walking-sticks have two straight, 

 ribbonlike blind sacs which lie in the thorax (Scudder, 1876). The 

 electric-light bug has two long ccecal tubes in the metathorax (Leidy, 

 1847) . In another bug, Pyrrhocoris apterus, the scent-producing organ 

 is quite complicated. It has a specialized reservoir with a valve to 

 prevent the escape of the secretion (Mayer, 1874). The male 

 roaches Periplaneta orientalis and P. americana have, besides the scent- 

 producing organ in the articular membrane already mentioned, 

 anal glands which are highly organized (Bordas, 1901). The uni- 

 cellular glands belonging to the anal glands of a beetle, Blaps mortisaga, 

 are very similar in structure to those of the bee (Gilson, 1889). 

 Many species of Carabidse and Dytiscidse have been studied by 

 Dierckx (1899). He finds that all their anal glands are highly 

 organized and that the secretion is produced by many unicellular 

 glands which lie either in the tubes leading to the reservoir or lie a 

 short distance from these tubes. All of the gland cells are quite 

 similar in structure to those of the bee. A highly organized anal 

 gland has also been found in a few ants (Forel, 1878). 



From this brief outline, it is seen that scent-producing organs 

 have already been found in many insects belonging to five orders. 

 There is a wide variation in organization between the lowest type 

 and the highest type. All of those organs l)elonging to the first 

 four types are used in all probability for alluring purposes and as a 

 means for recognition, while those of the fifth type are perhaps used 

 only as a means of defence. Of the scent-producing organs used for 

 recognition, that of the honey bee is probably the most highly 

 organized. 



Literature Cited. 



Herlese, Antonio. 1908-1909. Gli insoil-i, vol. 1, ])!>. riiW, fVM. 



Hehtkau, Ph. 1SS2. IJeber don Duftappanit von Hcpiahis Hecta L. Arch. f. 



Naturgesch., Jahrg. 48, Bd. 1, pp. ;iG;i-370. 

 Bordas, L., 1901. Les glandes defensives ou odorantes des Blattes. Comptcs 



Rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, t. 132, pp. 13.52-1354. 

 Deegener, Paul. 1905. Das Duftorgan von Phassus Schanriyl Chr. I. Anato- 



misch-histologischer Theil. Zeitsoh. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. 78, pp. 245-255. 

 Dierckx, Fr. 1899. Etude comparec des glandes pygidiennes ohez les Cara- 



bides et les Dytiscides avec quolqucs remarques sur le rlassement des 



Carabides. La Cellule, t. 16, Fasc. 1, i)p. 61-17(). 

 Dreyling, L. 1900. Die waehsbereitenden Organe bei den gesellig Icbcuden 



Bienen. Zool. Jahrb., Abt. Anat. und Ont., Bd. 22, pp. 289-330. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



FoREL, August. 1878. Der Giftapparate und die Analdriisen dcr Ameisen. 



Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. 30, Heft 1, Supplement, pp. 28-68. 

 Freiling, Hans H. 1909. Duftorgane der weiblichen Schmetterlinge nebst 



Beitrilgen zur Kenntniss der Sinnesorgane auf dem Schmetterlingsfliigel 



und der Duftpinsel der Miinnchen von Danais und Euploea. Zeitsch. f. 



wiss. Zool., Bd. 92, pp. 210-290. 

 GiLSON, G. 1889. Les glandes odoriferes du Blaps Mortisaga et de quelques 



autres especes. La Cellule, t. 5, pp. 1-24. 

 Illig, K. G. 1902. Duftorgane der mannlichen Schmetterlinge. Biblioth. 



Zoologica, Heft 38, pp. ^1-34. 

 Janet, Charles. 1898. Etudes sur les fourmis, les guepes et les abeilles. 



Note 17. Systeme glandulaire tegumentaire de la Myrmica rubra. Obser- 

 vations diverses sur les fourmis, Paris, pp. 1-30. 

 Klemensiewicz, S. 1882. Zur niiheren Kenntniss der Hautdriisen bei den 



Raupen und bei Malachius. Verhdl. k. k. zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, Bd. 



32, pp. 4.59-474. 

 Leidy, Joseph. 1847. History and anatomy of the hemipterous genus Bel- 



ostoma. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2), vol. 1, pp. 57-66. 

 Mayer, Paul. 1874. Anatomie von Pyrrhocoris apterus L. Reichert und du 



Bois-Reymond's Arch. f. Anat. Phys. und wiss. Med., pp. 313-347. 

 MiNCHiN, E. A. 1888. Note on a new organ and on the structure of the hypo- 



dermis in Periplaneta orientalis. Quart. Journ. Mic. Sci., vol. 29, pp. 



229-233. 

 MtJLLER, Fritz. 1877. Ueber Haarpinsel, Filzflecke und iihnliche Gebilde auf 



den Fliigeln miinnlicher Schmetterlinge. Jenaische Zeitsch. f. Naturwiss., 



Bd. 11 (N. F., Vierter Band), pp. 99-114. 

 Oettinger, R. 1906. Ueber die Driisentaschen am Abdomen von Periplaneta 



orietitalis und Phyllodromia germanica. Zool. Anz., Bd. 30, pp. 338-349. 

 Plateau, Felix. 1876. Note sur une secretion propre aux Coleopteres Dytis- 



cides. Ann. Soc. Ent. Belgique, t. 19, pp. 1-10. 

 ScHON, Arnold. 1911. Bau und Entwicklung des tibialen Chordotonalorgans 



bei der Honigbiene und bei Ameisen. Zool. Jahrb., Abt. Anat. und Ont., 



Bd. 31, pp. 439-472. 

 ScuDDER, S. H. 1876. Odoriferous glands in Phasmidse. Psyche, vol. 1, pp. 



137-140. 

 Sladen, F. W. L. 1901. A scent-producing organ in the abdomen of the bee. 



Gleanings in Bee Culture, vol. 29, pp. 639, 640. 

 1902. Scent-producing organ in the abdomen of the worker of Apis 



mellifica. Ent. Month. Mag., London, vol. 38, pp. 208-211. 

 Thomas, M. B. 1893. The androchonia of Lepidoptera. Amer. Naturalist, 



vol. 27, pp. 1018-1021. 

 Tower, W. L. 1903. The origin and development of the wings of Coleoptera. 



Zool. Jahrb., Abt. Anat., Bd. 17, Heft 3, pp. 517-567. 

 Tozzetti, Ad. T. 1870. Sull'apparecchio che separa ed esala I'odore di mus- 



chio nel maschio, della Sphynx convolvuli. Bui. Soc. Ent. Ital., Anno 2, 



pp. 3.58-362. 

 Vosseler, Julius. 1890. Die Stinkdrusen der Forficuliden. Arch. f. mikr. 



Anat., Bd. 36, pp. 36.5-378. 

 ZouBAREFF, A. 1883. A propos d'un organe de I'abeille non encore decrit. 



Bui. d 'Apiculture Suisse Romande, vol. 5, pp. 215, 216. Also in British 



Bee Journ., No. 1.36, vol. 11, pp. 296, 297. Translated from above by 



Frank Benton. 



Explanation of Plates XIX and XX. 



All figures, except diagrams Nos. 1 and 2, are from camera lucida drawings, 

 made at the base of the microscope. Figures 5 to 166 were made by using a V and 

 S4 ocular and a xV oil immersion. Each one of these drawings is enlarged 875 

 diameters. 




554 proceedings of the academy of [aug., 



Abbreviations. 



AcSt accessory parts of sting. 



Amp ampulla of gland cell. 



AntP anterior portion of articular membrane. 



ArtM articular membrane. 



Can canal. 



CanTu canal of chitinous tube. 



Ch chitin. 



CIS clear spot in cytoplasm of cell. 



DDph dorsal diaphragm. 



ECan end of canal. 



FC fat cell. 



GIC gland cell. 



Glo globule of cell. 



Gr groovelike indentation in chitin forming canal. 



H heart. 



Hr hair. 



HrS hau- socket. 



Hyp hypodermis. 



HypC hypodermal cell. 



Lint large intestine. 



M muscle to move sting. 



Mai Malpighian tubules. 



CE oenocyte. 



PostP posterior portion of articular membrane. 



RadStr radial streak of ampulla. 



SInt small intestine. 



St sting. 



T trachea. 



Tu chitinous tubes of gland cells. 



TrA tran.sparent area in ampulla. 



VDph ventral diaphragm. 



a to / of figure 2. — a, small barbed hairs; b, small spinelike hairs; c, groovelike 

 indentations on anterior portion of articular membrane; (/, heavy and wide 

 vein of chitin between anterior and posterior portions of articular membrane; 

 e, heavy and narrow vein of chitin in posterior portion of articular mem- 

 brane; /, location of gland cells. 



a to e of figure 4. — a, comparatively thin and almost transparent chitin; b, 

 narrow, thick and yellow band of chitin; c, thick, semitransparent band 

 of chitin; (/, wide, thick and opaque band of chitin; c, thick semitransparent 

 chitin. 



a to b of figure 9. — a, hypodermal cells, which later become gland cells, now 

 broken loose from hypodermal layer; 6, a later stage of same. 



V, the heavy and wide vein of chit in shown in figure 2, d. 



Fig. 1 has been placed in the text. 

 Plate XIX. — Fig. 2. — Diagram of articular membrane spread out flat under a 

 low-power lens, showing its su])(>rficial appearance, and looking through the 

 posterior part {PudP) of meml)rane at a deejier focus may be seen gland 

 cells and tubes as shown at/. The material used for figs. 2 to 7 inclusive 

 was fre.sh and was stained slightly with a weak solution of methyliti green. 



Fig. 3. — A small portion of anterior part (AiitP) of membrane from fig. 2, 

 showing the groovelike indentations {(ir). X 700. 



Fig. 4. — A small portion of posterior part {PostP) of nuimbrane from fig. 2, 

 looking at inner side of chitin with strong transmitted light. Four gland 

 cells {GIC) and many tubes (7'm) are shown. The tubes are twice too 

 wide. X 275. 



Fig. 5. — Large live gland cell, showing its structure. 



Fig. 6. — Large live cenooyte, showing its structure. 



Fig. 7. — Small live fat cell, showing its structure. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



Fig. 8. — Cross section of a small portion of posterior part (PoslP) of membrane 

 from fig. 2 at /, after treatment with caustic potash, showing that tubes 

 {Tu) are chitinous. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 9. — Sagittal section through articular membrane of a 15-day- 



old worker pupa (counting from tlie time the egg was laid), showing origin 



of gland cells from hypodermal cells (HypC). All material used for figs. 



9 to 166 was fixed and stained. 



Fig. 10. — Same kind of section as fig. 9, from a 16-day-old worker pupa, showing 



(1) great increase in size of gland cells (GIC) within one day's time; (2) 

 presence of tubes (Tu); (3) thin hypodermis {Hyp); and (4) presence of 

 chitin {Ch). 



Fig. llfl-c. — Origin of chitinous tube from a hypodermal cell. 11a is from a 

 15-day-old worker pupa, and life and lie are from a 15|-day-old worker 

 pupa. 



Fig. 12. — Same kind of section as fig. 9, from a 17-day-old worker pupa, 

 showing, as compared with fig. 10, (1) a slight increase in size of gland cells; 



(2) a thinner hypodermis; and (3) thicker chitin. 



Fig. 13. — Same as fig. 12, but from a 19-day-old worker pupa, showing no 



noticeable change in size of gland cells. 

 Fig. 14. — Same as figs. 12 and 13, but from a 21-day-old worker pupa (now 



emerged as an imago insect), showing; (1) a considerable increase in size 



of gland cells, and (2) thicker chitin. 

 Fig. 15. — Same as fig. 14, but from an old worker bee, showing a still greater 



increase in size of gland cells. Compare this large gland cell, which was 



fixed and stained, with the large live gland cell in fig. 5. 

 Fig. 16a. — Large gland cell from an old queen. 

 Fig. 166. — Large gland cell from a middle-aged pupal queen. Compare 



fig. 16a with gland cell in fig. 15. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHTLA. i91't. 



PLATE XI. 



MclNDOO: OLFACTORY SENSE OF HYMENOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PMIl.A. lOl'i. 



PLATE XII. 



1\ 12 



@^ ®^ @ "® ®" "©"© "© 



McINDOO: OLFACTORY SENSE OF HYMENOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHII.A. lOl.'i. 



PLATE Xin. 



ri6- 1 



, v/i 



F,6.4 



Fic 2 



J — h 



ypd -^ i Heart 



Fie.J 



REESE: VASCULAR SYSTEM OF ALLIGATOR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE XIV. 





/ 



\ 



>\ 





h 





\ 



A 



^ 







•, @> 





7 



6 



PILSBRY AND BROWN: PROGRESSION OF TRUNCATELLA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCT. PHTLA. 19l.'i. 



PLATE XV. 



CRAWLEY: EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTES MURIS. 





> 



D 



w 

 o 



r 

 o 

 o 

 o 



D 



3 

 o 



w 



o 

 p 



> 

 o 

 > 

 d 



> 



H 

 O 

 T) 



r 

 > 



50 



/ 



r 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHII.A. IQli. 



PLATE XVir. 



ANDREWS: MESOPLODON DENSIROSTRIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE XVIII. 



ANDREWS: MESOPLODON DENSIROSTRIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE XIX. 



MCINDOO: SCENT-PRODUCING ORGANS OF HONEY-BEE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. i914. 



PLATE XX. 



MCINDOO: SCENT-PRODUCING ORGANS OF HONEY-BEE. 





1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



Fig. 8. — Cross section of a small portion of posterior part (PostP) of membrane 

 from fig. 2 at /, after treatment with caustic potash, showing that tubes 

 {Tu) are chitinous. 



Plate XX. — ^Fig. 9. — Sagittal section through articular membi'ane of a 15-day- 



old worker pupa (counting from the time the egg was laid), showing origin 



of gland cells from hypodermal cells (HypC). All material used for figs. 



9 to 166 was fixed and stained. 



Fig. 10. — Same kind of section as fig. 9, from a 16-day-old worker pupa, showing 



(1) great increase in size of gland cells (GIC) within one day's time; (2) 

 presence of tubes (Tu); (3) thin hypodermis {Hyp); and (4) presence of 

 chitin {Ch). 



Fig. lla-c. — Origin of chitinous tube from a hypodermal cell. 11a is from a 

 15-day-old worker pupa, and 116 and lie are from a 15|-day-old worker 

 pupa. 



Fig. 12. — Same kind of section as fig. 9, from a 17-day-old worker pupa, 

 showing, as compared with fig. 10, (1) a slight increase in size of gland cells; 



(2) a thinner hypodermis; and (3) thicker chitin. 



Fig. 13. — Same aS fig. 12, but from a 19-day-old worker pupa, showing no 



noticeable change in size of gland cells. 

 Fig. 14. — Same as figs. 12 and 13, but from a 21-day-old worker pupa (now 



emerged as an imago insect), showing; (1) a considerable increase in size 



of gland cells, and (2) thicker chitin. 

 Fig. 15. — Same as fig. 14, but from an old worker bee, showing a still greater 



increase in size of gland cells. Compare this large gland cell, which was 



fixed and stained, with the large live gland cell in fig. 5. 

 Fig. 16(7. — Large gland cell from art old queen. 

 Fig. 166. — -Large gland cell from a middle-aged pupal queen. Compare 



fig. 16a with gland cell in fig. 15. 



37 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept. 



FURTHER NOTES ON METEOR CRATER, ARIZONA. 

 BY DANIEL MOREAU BARRINGER. 



I present this as a supplement to my paper, entitled "Coon 

 Mountain and Its Crater," published in the Proceedings of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in December, 1905, 

 and to my more comprehensive and necessarily more accurate paper 

 (owing to the amount of exploration work Avhich has been done), 

 read before the National Academy of Sciences at its autumn meeting 

 at Princeton University, November 16, 1909, with a few additional 

 and apparently conclusive arguments with regard to the correctness 

 of the impact theory of origin of what is now known as the Meteor 

 Crater of Arizona. 



One of the most significant minor facts in connection with this 

 remarkable crater is the discovery by those who have conducted the 

 extensive exploratory work there of quite large quantities of quartz 

 glass, which is undoubtedly fused sandstone and has been so de- 

 scribed by Merrill.^ An examination of the specimens now on 

 exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History, New York, 

 will immediately convince the most skeptical that this is nothing 

 but fused sandstone. 



It does not appear that those who have written on the interesting- 

 subject of the origin of this crater in Arizona, myself included, have 

 used this fact, and the circumstance that the material is abundantly 

 stained with nickel-iron oxide, as a conclusive argument — for such it 

 is — in favor of the impact theory rather than the volcanic theory of 

 origin. I am assured by Dr. Merrill and others that there is no 

 record of a sudden outburst of volcanic action wherein the heat 

 generated was sufficient to fuse crystalline quartz. The only case 

 of quartz being fused by a sudden rise in temperature to the necessary 

 degree of heat to effect a result comparable to that produced here 

 is that of the more or less familiar action of the lightning striking 

 sandstone or sand and altering it to what is known as fulgurite 

 glass. No volcanic action, however violent or however long con- 



' Proc. U. S. National Museum, Vol. XXXII, pp. 547-5.50, June 15, 1907, 

 and Snii.lli.sonian Misc. CoUcrlinns (Quartprly Issuo), Vol. .50, Part 4, pp. 4(11- 

 498, pis. 61-75, January 27, 1908. See also the description of this inetanioi- 

 phosed sandstone in my National Academy paper. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



tinued, has Ix'cn known to produce sucli an effect. The only com- 

 parison which occurs to me and which will at all fit the facts is 

 that of the striking of a heavy armor-piercing projectile upon armor 

 plate. There, I understand, a very high heat is generated moment- 

 arily, as was certainly the case at the Arizona crater. There also 

 the heat of impact is sufficient to not only fuse a small portion of 

 the target, but a small portion of the projectile, since momentarily 

 iron-and-nickel vapor is produced. That this vapor of iron and 

 nickel was also produced at the crater, being derived from the 

 impacting body, is evidenced by the fact that this particular variety 

 of fused sandstone, referred to by me as "Variety B" of metamor- 

 phosed sandstone in my National Academy paper, is nearly always 

 more or less abundantly stained by iron and nickel oxide. The 

 fact that this stain is often found in places where the metamorphosed 

 sandstone has gaped open under the influence of intense heat and 

 then closed again upon cooling, is most significant. 



Now it must not be forgotten that the white or gray saccharoidal 

 sandstone, small portions of which have been fused in this way, 

 does not outcrop anywhere nearer than the Grand Canyon of the 

 Colorado, seventy miles distant, where it is known as the White 

 Wall or Cross-bedded sandstone and overlies, as at Meteor Crater, 

 the Red Wall or Red Beds sandstone. At the crater the upper 

 portion of this sandstone occupies a position about 350 feet below 

 the surface of the plain, being overlaid by about 300 feet of the 

 Aubrey limestone and 40 or 50 feet of the purplish-red sandstone, 

 wiiich, in the form of small buttes, is found all over the surrounding 

 otherwise almost level plain. It must be remembered also that all 

 the strata in this locality are horizontal. Clearly, nickeliferous 

 iron had penetrated into and, as we now have strong reason to 

 believe, through this bed of white or gray sandstone, and we know 

 that nothing terrestrial in this vicinity contains nickel in any form. 

 The only possible source of this stain is, therefore, the meteoric iron, 

 the occurrence of which has been very fully described in my previous 

 papers. (See Plate XXIII, showing the distribution of meteoric 

 iron around the crater.) It seems to me, therefore, that this 

 peculiar vesicular form of metamorphosed sandstone, which was 

 certainly produced by sudden and intense heat and which is so 

 abundantly stained with nickel and iron oxide, in itself furnishes an. 

 incontrovertible proof of the impact theory of origin, the opinion 

 of certain members of the United States Geological Survey to the 

 contrary notwithstanding. 




558 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Professor Elihu Thomson has given me permission to quote a 

 statement which he made to me in a letter written a few days after 

 he visited the crater some years ago, as follows: "This Arizona 

 crater bears all the evidences of impact and the evidences of nothing 

 else." This is the complete story told in a few words. It will 

 be in the interest of science if scientific men, and especially those of 

 the United States Geological Survey who deny this theory of origin, 

 will present their reasons for maintaining the hypothesis that the 

 crater was due to some manifestation of volcanic activity. I believe 

 that it will be easy to refute any argument they may advance. No 

 examination of the crater since the exploratory work was done has 

 been made by any members of the Survey, to the best of my knowl- 

 edge and belief. Therefore, unless they can satisfactorily account 

 for the facts which I have stated in this and in my previous papers 

 on the subject on some other theory than that of impact by a great 

 mass of meteoric iron, it would seem that I can fairly claim to have 

 proved the theory that the crater was formed by this SLgency. 



There is good reason to believe that the meteoric mass was a 

 dense cluster of iron meteorites and possibly was the head of a small 

 comet which was not moving at very high speed, astronomically 

 considered, since there is no evidence, beyond the very slight evi- 

 dence referred to above, of the volatilization of any portion of the 

 mass. Moreover, it is certain that the siliceous limestone bed, which 

 it encountered after passing through the 40 to 50 feet of overlying 

 purplish-red sandstone, would have been readily fused had the 

 impact been such as we can reasonably suppose it to have been had 

 there been a head-on collision between this small cluster of iron 

 meteorites or cometary body and the earth. Besides this, as anyone 

 who knows anything about ballistics will at once acknowledge, there 

 would have been no such penetration as we now know took place: 

 nearly, if not fully, 1,200 feet into solid limestone and sandstone 

 strata. It has been inferred, therefore, that the cluster of iron 

 meteorites may have followed after the earth and that the blow de- 

 livered was not such as it would have been if there had been a direct 

 head-on collision. We now know that the mass, probably weighing 

 as much as 10,000,000 tons, if not more, penetrated through the 

 white or gray sandstone and as far down as the top of the Ked Beds 

 sandstone (Red Wall sandstone of the Grand Canyon section). 

 Several cores from this sandstone bed, showing it to be undisturbed 

 and lying in a horizontal position, have been brought up by the 

 drill directly under the centre of the floor of the crater and at a 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



depth of from 900 feet to over 1,000 feet below the floor of the crater. 

 They are to be seen at the American Musemii of Natural History, 

 New York. 



Only a small and unfortunately the central portion of the crater 

 has been explored by the drill, not more than y^ of the total area of 

 the crater, but undoubted meteoric material (small pieces of "iron 

 shale" or magnetic nickel-iron oxide) have been brought up by the 

 drill, as stated in my previous papers, from a depth of between 700 

 and 800 feet below the level of the floor of the crater, whicli is 

 about 440 feet, on an average, below the level of the surrounding 

 plain. The drill holes were located there because we did not at the 

 time this drilling was done appreciate the direction from which the 

 meteoric mass approached or properly interpret the evidence which 

 now causes us to believe that it lies under the southern wall of the 

 crater, some 2,000 feet distant from where the drilling was done. 

 We did not take into consideration certain facts now very plain to 

 us and to anyone who may visit the crater or carefully study the 

 maps, once his attention is called to these facts, which should have 

 shown us that it approached at quite an angle from the north, per- 

 haps as much as 30° from the vertical. 



In the first place, the greatest amount of iron meteorites and 

 especially those of the "shale ball" variety, described in my previous 

 papers, have been found on the northern slope of the crater and on 

 the plain beyond — accurately, slightly to the east of a north and south 

 line passing through the centre of the crater. In this connection it 

 may be of some interest to know that there was found al:)out a mile 

 and a half from the crater in a north-northeast direction three years 

 ago the largest Canyon Diablo iron meteorite which has ever been 

 found. The following are the dimensions of this meteorite, which 

 is of the ordinary Canyon Diablo type, with characteristic pittings, 

 etc.: 



Length 3' 2" 



Width 2' 5" 



Height , 1'3|" 



Greatest circumference 8' 3|" 



Least circumference 5' 7" 



Estimated weight Between 1,700 and 2,000 pounds. 



It is to be seen at the museum- which has been built at the crater. 



2 The collection of meteorites, metamorphosed sandstone, specimens of all 

 the strata penetrated, etc., in this museum and in the collection at the American 

 Museum of Natural History, in New York City, which has been loaned to it 

 by Princeton University, should be seen by all those who are interested in the 

 subject. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Secondly, vastly more of the fragmentary material, including 

 that which came from its greatest depths, which has been expelled 

 from the crater by the force of the impact, lies on the southern rim 

 than anywhere else. 



Other proofs that the meteoric mass which produced the crater 

 by its impact with the earth approached from this direction are 

 that in the south wall of the crater, composed of great limestone and 

 sandstone cliffs, the fact is clearly discernible that this sandstone 

 and limestone have been lifted vertically some 105 feet out of 

 position for a total length of nearly one-half mile. On either ■ 

 side of this great uplift the formations are tilted violently back- 

 ward, a fault separating them from the central uplifted mass (see 

 Plates XXI and XXII). Moreover, a distinct bending or arch can 

 be seen in the lines of stratification of the rocks composing this 

 central mass which has been vertically uplifted and which probably 

 weighs in the neighborhood of 50,000,000 tons. The highest point 

 of this curvature is in the exact centre or midway between the point 

 where the strata have been turned backward, as described. This 

 would seem to indicate that something was wedged or intruded 

 underneath this great mass of rock and lifted it vertically upward. 

 The central portion of this mass of rock so uplifted is almost due 

 south of the centre of the crater or nearly opposite to that portion of 

 the crater's rim and the plain beyond on which the greatest number 

 of ordinary Canyon Diablo meteorites and the so-called "shale 

 ball" meteorites have been found. Also beginning at the north the 

 strata exposed in the circular wall of the crater increase in the dip 

 representing their backward tilting on each side of the crater right 

 around to the faults which mark the east and west sides of this up- 

 lifted mass (see Plates XXI and XXII) . When these facts are consid- 

 ered in connection with that of the great fragmentary masses of lime- 

 stone being collected together in what I have heretofore referred to 

 as "fields of limestone boulders," which lie to the east and west of a 

 north and south line passing through the crater, conviction is forced 

 upon the mind that the mass which made the crater, and which 

 according to our present knowledge of physics and chemistry must 

 lie somewhere in its depths, approached the earth from a northerly 

 direction and held to its course as a rifle bullet woXild until perhaps 

 it came to the top of the hard Red Beds sandstone stratum, when 

 possibly it may have been deflected somewhat. Apparently, how- 

 ever, it advanced sufficiently far underneath the white or gray 

 sandstone and th(^ overlying limestone to uplift the portion of the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



wall of the crater referred to above more than 100 feet out of its 

 proper position. What could be more natural under these conditions 

 than that we would have found nothing in the centre of the crater 

 except some little pieces of iron oxide representing largely sparks 

 or bits of metal which were literally torn off the projectile as it 

 advanced through the rock target? By far the greater portion of it 

 must have held together, as a charge of shot holds together for a 

 short distance after it leaves the muzzle of a shotgun. It is con- 

 sidered extremely likely that the major portion of the mass lies 

 under the southern wall of the crater and particularly under that 

 portion of it which has been uplifted in the manner that I have 

 attempted to describe. 



The theory has been advanced that this great crater was par- 

 tially formed by the heating of the water in the moist sandstone 

 converting it almost instantly into steam. I have no doubt that 

 this action contributed in a measure to excavate the crater, but 

 I do not think that it contributed very largely to the general effect. 

 It seems to me that it is hardly necessary to call in any other agency 

 to account for the observed facts than the excavating effect of such 

 a projectile. In short I believe the crater would have been prac- 

 tically as large as it is to-day if there had been no water in the sand- 

 stone. We well know from repeated .borings by the Atchison, 

 Topeka & Santa Fe R. R. Company that these strata contain very 

 little water to-day and all the evidence is in favor of the crater's 

 being of recent origin, the Indians of that section having a legend 

 connected with the fall. 



Having once been convinced of the correctness of the impact 

 theory of origin, the size of the meteoric mass which formed the pro- 

 jectile becomes of interest. It is hardly conceivable that its weight 

 was less than five million tons. It may have been 10,000,000 tons, 

 or twice that weight. Admitting that it was a cluster that produced 

 the result, the wonder is that it was as small as we now realize it 

 must have l^een. These masses of meteoric material we know to be 

 flying through space in the vicinity of our solar system. They pos- 

 sibly represent the small remaining portions of the nebula out of 

 which our system was made. Most of them have probably long 

 since been gathered into the sun or into some of the planetary bodies. 

 Saturn's rings, I believe, are largely composed of meteorites. They 

 probably present an early stage of moon-making. The craters on the 

 moon's surface are much more thinkable in size than the Arizona crater. 

 Most of the craters on the moon's surface, which I firmly believe to 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



be impact craters, are vastly larger than our Arizona crater, and 

 one of them is even 150 miles in diameter. When one who is familiar 

 with the Arizona crater examines the Imiar craters through a good tele- 

 scope they are at once seen to show the main features of the former. 

 The relation of width to depth is the same. Most of the ejected 

 material lies close around the lunar craters and forms the so-called 

 rim, as in the case of the Arizona crater. There are spurts or tongues 

 of ejected material in the Arizona crater and presumably in the lunar 

 craters. Even the peculiar conical central hill or mountain which is 

 observed in most of them and which I confidently assert cannot 

 "be explained on any theory of volcanic action, has its counter- 

 part in our own Silica Hill at Meteor Crater (see Plates XXI 

 and XXII). It probably exists in all of the lunar craters, but 

 in the very small ones it is not easily discernible on account of 

 the smallness of the crater and because, as in our crater, the effect 

 has been somewhat masked. This hill in the Arizona crater is now 

 somewhat masked by the overlying lacustrine sediments and by 

 fine material deposited by the action of wind over it. For a long 

 time its origin puzzled us greatly. It now seems to have been a neces- 

 sary feature of the impact. These central conical hills or veritable 

 mountains in the larger lunar craters Avould seem to be due to the 

 same physical law which we see in operation when we drop a stone 

 into water or soft mud, with Avhich solid rock can be compared 

 if the projectile strikes it at sufficient speed. A raindrop falling 

 on still water produces for a moment the same small conical-shape 

 in the centre of the cavity caused by the impact. In the case of 

 water, of course, it soon mingles with the surrounding water; in the 

 case of rock fragments or rather stiff mud it remains. In this connec- 

 tion one should read .4 Study of Splashes, liy Professor W. A. Worth- 

 ington, of Devonport, England, in which the author has introduced 

 some quite wonderful photographs and arrived at certain conclusions 

 with regard to the l^ehavior and flow of solid substances under great 

 pressure, suddenly applied, being analogous to the motion set up 

 in liquids or viscous material upon impact. These conclusions 

 seem to be fully warranted and also seem to go far toward ex- 

 plaining the presence of the conical-shaped hills in nearly all of 

 the lunar craters. Anyone who will make a careful study of our 

 Arizona crater and will then read Worthington's book, studying the 

 diagrams he has made, and will then turn his attention to the lunar 

 craters, cannot escape the conviction that the lunar craters are im- 

 pact craters. Why the moon should have been so abundantly bom- 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503- 



barded and the earth so seldom bombarded during recent geological 

 history is seemingly difficult to explain, but one must not forget that 

 the moon has been without an atmosphere for perhaps a great many 

 million years and all the bombardment to which it has been subjected 

 during this vast period of time is clearly and permanently recorded. 



May it not be possible that when one holds in his hands one of 

 the meteorites that occasionally reach this earth and which reached 

 it on its present surface in far greater numbers at and around Meteor 

 Crater in Arizona than any other locality known to us, he is holding 

 in his hands something older than our sun or any of the planets which 

 revolve about it; in fact, that he is holding in his hands something 

 which has literally formed part of the nebula out of which our whole 

 solar system has been built up? If this be in accordance with the 

 facts it would help to confirm the more recent theories of the building 

 up of the planetary systems as put forward by Chamberlin and 

 jMoulton. 



It seems to me to be not inappropriate to bring this paper to a 

 close by quoting in substance an argument which I recently heard 

 used by Dean W. F. Magie, Professor of Physics at Princeton Uni- 

 versity, in favor of the impact theory of origin of the Arizona crater 

 and as against the steam explosion theory of origin, which has l^een 

 advanced and persisted in notwithstanding all the evidence pre- 

 sented in the many papers which have been written on the subject 

 since the publication of my first paper read before The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Dean Magie spent a fortnight 

 at Meteor Crater several years ago studying the various phenomena 

 in connection with the crater and carefully checking the statements 

 of fact made by me in the National Academy paper above referred 

 to. The argument is as follows: 



First, on the doctrine of probabilities, the chances are one in 

 many millions that the greatest known shower of iron meteorites 

 should have fallen on the exact spot, with the Arizona crater as the 

 centre of its distribution (by consulting Plate XXIII it will be noticed 

 that the meteorites increase in number as one approaches the crater) , 

 at which a single, unprecedented steam explosion on a rapidly 

 revolving earth occurred. 



• Secondly, that the chances are one in many more millions that 

 this shower should have fallen on the exact site chosen for such an: 

 unprecedented steam explosion at the same instant of time that the 

 steam explosion occurred. 



Thirdly, that the chances are again one in millions that the steam 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



explosion should have produced not only such a peculiarly sym- 

 metrical crater as has been described in the various papers whicli 

 have been recently written concerning it, but should have produced 

 one which furnishes so much other evidence strongly confirming 

 the theory of impact as against the theory of steam explosion. 



Consequently, it is perfectly fair mathematically to multiply these 

 three and for one to say, on the theory of probabilities, that the 

 chances are one in the product of all these millions that the crater 

 was formed by a steam explosion. This of course is negligible. 



Explanation of Plates XXI-XXIII. 



Plate XXI. — Map of Meteor Crater, Arizona (six miles south of Sunshine 

 Station, Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. R., Coconino County, and in 

 Sections 13 and 24, T. 19, N. R., 12| E.). 



Plate XXII. — Rough sketch map showing distribution of major portion of 

 fragmentary material ejected from Meteor Crater, Arizona. 



Some rock fragments have been thrown as far as two miles from the 

 crater. This map merely shows manner of distribution and relative 

 quantity of material near the crater. Very much more material has 

 been thrown to the south (generally speaking) than elsewhere, i.e., the 

 mass of rock fragments is much thicker there than elsewhere and the 

 rock has been more finely crushed. The rock fragments seem to have 

 been thrown furthest to the northeast by east, where they thinly cover 

 a large area. 



Legend. — 



»■'-" Crater Rim. 



Lower limit of }>tdk. of ejected material which forms to a large extent 

 the so-called mountain. This line necessarily approximate. 



Limestone fragments, the most coherent rock thrown out of the crater. 



am Fields of big limestone boulders on the east and west slopes of the 

 mountain. 



!^ White or gray saccharoidal sandstone fragments. These frequently 



show cross bedding. 

 ^^ Brown sandstone fragments and brown sand due to their disintegration. 



Much of this sand has been drifted to the eastward by the prevailing winds. 



P^l Thin sheets or individual masses of ejected limestone far out on the 

 plain. These scattered fragments are found H miles from the crater 

 rim to northeast, If to 2 miles east and about 1 mile southeast. Map 

 too small to show their distribution except in a general way. 



Plate XXIII. — -Map showing distribution of meteoric material around Meteor 

 Crater, Coconino County, Arizona. 



Legend. — 



® Meteoric irons (ordinary Canyon Diablo sideritcs) from 10 pounds to 



547 pounds, discovered by Standard Iron C()m|)any. 

 ^>- Meteoric- irons, from 10 pounds to 1000 pounds, discovered by Mexicans 

 employed by F. A. Volz ct al. previous to acquisition of i)roperty by S. I. Co. 

 ■•■ Meteoric irons. Small. Discovered by S. I. Co. Thousands of the small 

 irons found. Hence (listril)ut ion only approximated. (These are generally 

 only a few grains or ounces in weight, irons weighing from 1 to 10 pounds 

 found only occasionally.) 




1914.] NATLUAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



^ Large irregular masses of meteoric iron o.xide or large "shale balls," 

 from 100 pounds to 300 pounds in weight, due to oxidation of meteoric 

 iron rich in chlorine and sulphur, or shale-ball iron, 

 c Small broken fragments of meteoric iron oxide or "iron shale" (a few 

 grains or ounces, rarely a pound in weight). Thousands of such pieces 

 found, hence distribution only approximated. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



October 6. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Reports on the work performed during the summer vacation were 

 made by the Curators, the Librarian, and the Secretaries. 



The deaths of WilUam N. Whelen, a member, and of Eduard 

 Suess, a correspondent, were announced. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported: 



"Further notes on Meteor Crater, Arizona," by Daniel M. Bar- 

 ringer (July 2). 



"■ Alorphologic sequences in the canaliculate Fulgurs," by Burnett 

 Smith (July 7). 



"Observations sur la theorie generale des phenomenes glaciaires 

 et sur les Galets stries," par Stanislas Meunier (July 27). 



"New and little-known Craneflies from the United States and 

 Canada (Tipullida?, Dipt era)," by Charles P. Alexander (August 24). 



"New neuropteroid Insects, native and foreign," by Nathan 

 Banks (September 29). 



The following were ordered to be published: 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



MORPHOLOGIC SEQUENCES IN THE CANALICULATE FULGURS. 

 BY BURNETT SMITH. 



The Tertiary and Recent gastropods which are usually assigned 

 to the genus Fulgur or to the genera Fulgur and Sycotypus have been 

 studied on several occasions in the endeavor to. clear up the phylo- 

 genetic relationships of the different species. Inexact methods of 

 collecting, poorly preserved material, and uncertainty of stratigraphic 

 relations have perhaps contributed in no small degree to the con- 

 flicting interpretations which have resulted. In spite of the attention 

 which these forms have attracted, no detailed morphologic work has, 

 so far, been attempted in the group. The purpose of the present 

 paper is to record some of the changes exhibited by the canaliculate 

 division of the genus when traced throughout its geological and 

 geographical range. 



The following notes have been prepared after an examination of 

 Avell-preserved specimens whose localities and horizons are in most 

 cases known to have been determined with considerable accuracy. 

 Museum sets of individuals falling well within a single specific diagno- 

 sis have been omitted whenever there was a suspicion that they were 

 derived from more than one locality or from more than one horizon. 

 It is recognized, however, that the amount of collecting necessary 

 for a final settlement of these problems of phylogeny is far beyond 

 the resources and the time of any one individual. Conclusions 

 reached in these notes are therefore submitted with the full realization 

 that they are preliminary in character and limited in scope. 



In even so simple a structure as the gastropod shell there are too 

 many features to be taken in and appreciated at a single glance, and 

 when a number of gradational forms are viewed together it is seldom 

 possible to retain any definite mental image in passing from one 

 extreme to the other of a morphologic sequence. True, it can be 

 seen by the most casual inspection that many species are closely 

 allied, but to say how they are allied is by no means an easy matter. 

 The chief obstacles encountered in such work are those presented 

 (1) by multiplicity of morphologic characters, (2) by the inadequacy 

 of words to express the requisite shades of meaning, and (3) by the 

 difficulty of representing a transitional ontogenetic stage in a diagram. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



In spite of their shortcomings it is beheved that diagrams give a 

 closer approximation to the truth than verbal descriptions and can 

 be employed to greater advantage if their limitations are understood. 



Though fully appreciating the necessity for the correct use of 

 systematic terms, the author wishes to emphasize the point that the 

 present study has not for its object the comparison of species as 

 ordinarily understood, but the comparison and correlation of the 

 morphologic combinations exhibited by the majority of individuals 

 of communities or races. 



Wherever practicable, the forms examined have been compared 

 with type specimens. When this could not l)e done satisfactorily 

 it has been the policy to refer, if possible, to some good figure of a 

 specimen whose horizon and locality are known. Though this latter 

 method may perhaps increase the chances of confusion among names, 

 it is believed that it lessens the chances of confusing morphologic 

 units. 



In the group of gastropods under discussion the shell characters 

 most available for comparison are the sutural canal, the nodes on 

 the shoulder angle, and the shoulder-angle keel. The appearance 

 and disappearance, strength or weakness, persistence or the reverse 

 of these characters have been used in comparing one race or species 

 with another. Decortication in many fossils and mechanical abrasion 

 in most recent specimens have usually obscured the minute details 

 of the first and second whorls. It is therefore not possil)le to compare 

 here every ontogenetic stage, but it can be stated that the sequence 

 of ontogenetic stages for the group appears to be (1) a smooth and 

 rounded stage, (2) a short cancellated and rounded stage, (3) an 

 angulated and noded stage, (4) an angulated and keeled stage without 

 nodes, and (5) a final rounded stage in which only the faintest spiral 

 striae remain. 



In the present study, as mentioned above, the last three stages 

 are, together with the canal, the most useful for comparative purposes. 

 It is unfortunate that it is not practical^le to extend the comparisons 

 in detail to the first and second whorls, but the nodes are usually 

 much obscured on the second whorl, while the cancellated stage is 

 known to the author in only one fossil race. Its presence, though 

 not proved, is suspected nevertheless for the entire group of canalicu- 

 late Fulgurs. 



In order to restrict, as far as possibl(>, tlu^ verbal description of 

 each feature in each whorl of each race, it is deemed advisable to 

 present the diagrams first and allow them to s(n-ve as a guide to the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. SGO' 



explanations that may follow. The purpose of th(^ diagram is to 

 picture the persistence or the reverse of the different characters in 

 passing from the early to the late whorls, that is, throughout the 

 ontogeny of the average individual' of a race. 1'he heavy horizontal 

 line of the diagram represents the ontogeny. Tt might be described 

 as a linear representation of that which in the shell is spiral: — the 

 spiral shell unwound, if we may use such an expression. Above 

 this line the ontogenetic stages are marked off as follows: 



A. The smooth antl rounded stage.^ 



X. The noded stage. 



K. The keeled stage without well defined nodes. 



R. The final rounded stage. 



The ontogenetic range of the sutural canal is shown below the 

 heavy line mentioned. The vertical dotted lines delimit the different 

 whorls and the spaces between them are numbered accordingly. 



It has been found by measurement that (due to ventricose coiling) 

 the length of the shoulder on any one whorl is about twice as great 

 as that on the preceding whorl. This, though not mathematically 

 correct, is believed to be so close an approximation to the truth that 

 the diagrams can be constructed in this manner. Whorl seven is 

 accordingly shown as twice as long as whorl six, and this proportion 

 is maintained down to the third whorl. (See tables on p. 570.) 



The Coronatum-pyrum Sequence. 



The sutural canal or channel which is such a prominent character 

 in our two Recent species of canaliculate Fulgurs and which is 

 usually selected as the chief diagnostic feature of the genus or sub- 

 genus Sycotypus had its beginnings at least as early as the Ballast 

 Point Oligocene. It is here, as pointed out by Dall', more of an 

 individual than a racial or specific character, but it is none the less 

 present, and in any account of the canaliculate Fulgurs one must 

 not fail to mention those Florida specimens which are provided with 

 the shell structure in question. They are usually assigned (see 

 A. X. S. P., Xo. 10,514) to Fulgnr spimger (Conrad), but their rather 

 wide divergence from the type of that species is made evident by a com- 



1 It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the tabulated results are intended 

 to apply only to those specimens which are regarded as average. In every race 

 or species individuals may be selected which exhibit either more or less accelera- 

 tion of shell characters than does the average example. 



- In the diagrams the cancellated stage when known to be present is included 

 with stage A. 



3 Trans. Wagner Free Indilnle of Science of Phila., vol. Ill, pt. 1. p. 111. 




^70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 12 3 4 5 6 



F. coronatum Con. 

 Miocene (St. Mary's). 

 St. Mary's River, Md. 



F. rugosum Con. 

 Miocene (St. Mary's). 

 St. Mary's River, Md. 



F. canaliculatum (L.). 

 Pleistocene. 

 Cornfield Harbor, Md. 



F. pyrmn (Dill.). 



Recent. 



Gulf Coast of Florida. 



F. pyrurn (Dill.). 

 Pliocene. 

 ■Caloosahatchie R., Fla. 



^ 



ac 



^ 



& 





^ 



N: 



N 



A 



N 



Canal\ 



N 



Oanal 



JL 



Canal 



JL 



anat 



JL 



Canal 



[Oct., 



JL 



Table I. — The coronatum-'pyrum Sequence. 



12 3 4 



/''. coronatum Con. 

 Miocene (St. Mary's). 

 -St. Mary's River, Md. 



F. rugosum Con. 

 Miocene (St. Mary's). 

 St. Mary's River, Md. 



F. amaliculatum (L.). 

 Pleistocene. 

 ■Cornfield Harbor, Md. 



F. incile Con. 

 Miocene (yellow marl 



of Burwell Bay). 

 Burwell Bay, J a m (! s 



River, Va. 



^ 



& 



& 





^ 



N 



N 



Cana/'' 



N 



Canal 



Z^C 



JL 



Cdnal 



JL 



:^ir: 



:sL 



Canal \ 



JL 



3 



Table II. — The coroiuitum-iiin'lc Sequence. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



parison with the figure which accompanies the original description.^ 

 They are without doubt a very primitive expression of the canalicu- 

 late type, but entire individuals of the series are all of small size, and 

 the suspicion that they are not fully grown has prevented the author 

 from including them in the tables with mature examples of other 

 specie^. It is therefore considered better to begin the discussion of 

 morphologic sequences with a later though perhaps equally primitive 

 form — Fulgur coronatura Conrad^ — from the St. Mary's Miocene, 



The most striking sequence starting with this species terminates 

 with a form from the Caloosahatchie Pliocene of Florida, which is 

 usually included in Fulgur pyrum. (Dillwyn). The steps in the 

 sequence are F. coronatum Conrad (St. Mary's Miocene), F. rugosum 

 Conrad^ (St. Mary's Miocene), F. canaliculalum (L.)^ (Maryland 

 Pleistocene), F. pyrum (Dillwyn)^ (Recent Florida), and F. pyrum 

 (Dillwyn) (Florida Pliocene). These are all shown in Table I. 

 Pleistocene specimens of F. canaliculatuni have been selected because 

 their preservation is superior to that of the available Recent speci- 

 mens. It should also be noted that the ontogeny line which has 

 been introduced for the Recent F. pyrum cannot be used to represent 

 all individuals of the species.^ 



On consulting the table it will be seen that the sequence consists 

 (1) in the progressively earher appearance of the canal in passing 

 from F. coronatum to the Caloosahatchie F. pyrum, (2) the progress- 

 ive shortening of the noded stage through compression of the stage 

 and acceleration of its later part, (3) the introduction and progressive 

 acceleration of the keeled stage and its final compression in the 

 terminal member of the sequence, and (4) the introduction of a final 

 rounded stage in the Caloosahatchie F. pyrum^° accompanied by 

 compression and acceleration of the noded and keeled stages. 

 . However little this arrangement may conform to geologic order 

 or to one's ideas of phylogenetic relationship, it must be admitted that 



^J. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., vol. 1, 2d ser., p. 117, pi. XI, fig. 32, 1848. 



* "Fossils of the Medial Tertiary," pi. XLVI, fig. 1. 



See also Md. Geol. Surv., Miocene, pi. XLYI, figs, la, lb. 



6 "Fossils of the Medial Tertiary," pi. XLVI, fig. 4. 



See also Md. Geol. Surv., Miocene, pi. XLVI, figs. 2a, 2b. 



• See Md. Geol. Surv., Pliocene and Pleistocene, pis. XLVI, XLVII, XLVIII. 

 8 "A Descriptive Catalogue of Recent Shells," L. W. Dillwyn, London, 1817, 



p. 48.5. 



Martini Lister Syn. Method. Conch., 3d ed., 877, 1. 



See also Mnnval of Conchology, G. W. Tryon, 1 ser., vol. Ill, pi. 58, figs. 402, 403. 



^_ The suspicion is entertained that the Recent F. pyrum will eventually prove 

 divisible into two species or at least races. 



1" This stage is also seen in many specimens of the Recent F. pynim. 

 38 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fOct., 



these forms just enumerated exhibit actual morphologic gradations. 

 Any one feature is just a little stronger or more accelerated or perhaps 

 just a little weaker in passing from F. coronatum to the Pliocene 

 F. pyrum — in other words, the sequence is morphologic. 



That the actual specimens from which these tabulated results 

 were obtained could constitute part of a phylogenetic sequence is, 

 of course, inadmissible. The specimens of F. coronatum and F. 

 rugosum were contemporaries in the Miocene sea and the two lots 

 of F. pyrum have their morphologic sequence the reverse of their 

 geologic order. Again, F. canaliculatum and F. pyrum are contem- 

 poraries in the Recent seas and were probably even so in the Pliocene. 



To interpret such data in terms of the phylogeny, one must decide 

 between two quite diverse courses. In the first the worker may 

 accept the geologic sequence as indicating the phylogeny and modify 

 his ideas about organic evolution. The other course hes in choosing 

 the morphologic sequence as portraying the phylogeny and intro- 

 ducing hypothetical species into the final scheme. In this latter 

 case forms which are morphologically discordant but geologically 

 intermediate must be regarded as intercalated migrants which have 

 attained a high degree of specialization. 



As an illustration of the difficulties presented by the first method 

 of interpretation, attention is called to the Recent and Phocene 

 examples of F. pyrum. Those from the Pliocene are according to 

 the morphology at the very limit of the sequence. If the Recent 

 Florida individuals of this species are derived from the Caloosahatchie 

 form, then the canal must have gone through a process the reverse 

 of acceleration, and the disappearance or non-appearance of a final 

 rounded stage must be accounted for in what is probably a majority 

 of Recent examples. When the second method of interpretation is 

 applied to these two assemblages, it is found necessary to derive both 

 Recent and Pliocene examples from a hypothetical F. pyrum. ancestor 

 less specialized than the Pliocene form and not more specialized than 

 the Recent form here tabulated. On this basis the Caloosahatchie 

 F. pyrum is a terminal offshot which is extinct and not the ancestor 

 of the less specialized Recent forms which are regarded as post- 

 pliocene invaders from some other region. 



At first glance it would appear that the method of interpreting 

 by geologic position alone presents fewer difficulties. The study of 

 these closely related species in this as well as in other groups of 

 gastropods has, however, led the author to favor not the first, but 

 the second method of interpreting. The r(>asons for choosing such 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



578 



a course will be more fully discussed later and at present it is suf- 

 ficient to say that the morphologic sequence displayed l)y F. corona- 

 turn, F. rugosum, F. canaliculatum, and the two assemblages of 

 F. pynim is believed to be best interpreted in terms of the phylogeny 

 as follows: 



F. canaliculatum 

 (Recent) 



F. pyruin 

 (Recent) 



F. canaliculatum 

 (Pleistocene) 



F. pijrum 

 (Caloosahatchie Pliocene) 



Hypothetical 

 F. pyrum ancestor 



Hypothetical 



F. canaliculatum ancestor 



perhaps identical with F. rugosum 



F. coronatum 



(St. Mary's F. rugosum 



Miocene) (St. Mary's Miocene) 



Hypothetical 



F. coronatum 



ancestor 



F. rugosum has been reported from the Calvert and Choptank 

 formations. ^^ Both are older than the St. Mary's. As far as the 



11 Md. Geol. Surv. Miocene, p. 182. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



writer h^s been able to learn, F. coronatmn has not been found in 

 these earlier beds. Those favoring purely stratigraphic methods 

 will probably argue that, in any phylogenetic scheme, F. coronatum 

 should be represented as derived from F. rugosum. This, however, 

 would require an explanation of the absence of a keeled stage in 

 F. coronatum and the acceptance of a theory that ontogenetic stages 

 do sometimes go through a process the reverse of acceleration. 

 The author inclines to the morphologic method in this case. It is 

 believed that the derivation of F. rugosum from F. coronatum or 

 something very close to it is amply justified, in spite of the fact that 

 the latter form has not yet been proved to extend farther back than 

 the St. Mary's Miocene. 



In passing it may be said that the F. jjyrumASke forms from the 

 Duplin Miocene have been omitted purposely from the scheme, 

 because of the suspicion, as yet unverified, that most museum sets 

 are made up of specimens from more than one horizon in the Duplin 

 beds. 



The CORONATUM-INCILE SEQUENCE. 



The second morphologic sequence which commands our attention 

 starts, as before, with F. coronatum, but ends with the late Miocene 

 F. incile Conrad. ^^ The gradations in this sequence, though not as 

 complete as in the F. coronatum-F . pyrum sequence, are perhaps no 

 less striking. Its members comprise F. coronatum Conrad (St. 

 Mary's Miocene), F. rugosum Conrad (St. Mary's Miocene), F. 

 canaliculatum (L.) (Pleistocene and Recent), and F. incile Conrad 

 (Burwell Bay Miocene). These are shown in Table II. As before, 

 the sequence consists (1) in the progressively earlier appearance of 

 the canal in passing from F. coronatum to F. incile; (2) the progress- 

 ive shortening of the noded stage through compression of the stage 

 and acceleration of its later part; (3) the introduction and progressive 

 acceleration of the keeled stage and its final compression in the 

 terminal meml^er, and (4) the introduction of a final rounded stage 

 in F. incile. 



In the succession of its ontogenetic stages, F. incile parallels F. 

 pyrum, but in other respects it is quite different. In F. pyrum the 

 tendency is for a shortening of the spire and a lengthening of the 

 anterior canal. For F. incile, on the other hand, the reverse is true; 



""Descriptions of Miocene Shells of the Atlantic Slope," T. A. Com-ad, 

 Am. J. Conch., p. G-4, pi. G, fig. 2, 1868. 

 See also Aju. J. Sci., vol. XXIIl, p. 343. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



the canal shortening and the spire becoming more scalar during 

 individual gro^\i:h. Again the shell of F. pijrum tends to become 

 light and thin, that of F. incile thick and heavy with the progress 

 of the ontogeny. 



The sequential relations presented by F. canaliculatum and F. 

 incile are by no means apparent unless one is dealing with well- 

 preserved specimens of the latter species. The average museum 

 specimen of F. incile fails completely in this respect. If, however, 

 the material is illustrative of the entire ontogeny, the similarity in 

 the immature stages of these two species is very striking, and even 

 the late whorls and short anterior siphon of F. incile are occasionally 

 approached in very old and perhaps slightly abnormal individuals 

 of F. canaliculatum. 



When the geologic order of these species is considered in relation 

 to their morphologic sequence, we are confronted with the fact that 

 the Pleistocene and Recent (perhaps also Pliocene) F. canaliculatum 

 is morphologically intermediate between F. rugosuni of the St. Mary's 

 Miocene and F. incile of the Burwell Bay (James River) IMiocene. 

 The descent of F. incile from any known race of F. canaliculatum is 

 manifestly imi^ossible, but the derivation of F. canaliculatum from 

 F. incile could only be accomplished by the loss or non-development 

 of acquired characters and a resumption of primitive features only 

 slightly less marked than in F. rugosum. 



Again, a decision must be made on w^hat course to follow in inter- 

 preting the facts. We must either make the phylogeny agree with 

 the stratigraphic order and modify our conception of the laws of 

 evolution or else introduce a hypothetical common ancestor for 

 both F. canaliculatum and F. incile. On this basis F. incile would be 

 in no sense ancestral, but a terminal radiation of the late Miocene, 

 which left no descendants. 



In the case of the present sequence the author again favors the 

 second method of interpretation and believes that the fewer difficul- 

 ties are presented l^y the following phylogenetic scheme: 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



F. canaliculatum 

 (Recent) 



F. canaliculatum 

 (Pleistocene) 



F. incile 



(Burwell Bay, 



James R. Miocene) 



Hypothetical 



F. canaliculatum ancestor 



perhaps identical with F. rugosum 



F. coronal um 

 (St. Mary's Miocene) 



\ 



F. rugosum 

 (St. Mary's Miocene) 



Hypothetical 

 F . coronatum ancestor 



Geological Range and Classificatory Value of Shell 

 Structures and Ontogenetic Stages. 



Studies in evolution may be undertaken with the object of deter- 

 mining either the phylogeny of biologic groups, such as families, 

 genera, species, or the phylogeny of organic structures. Though 

 these two lines of research can never be regarded as entirely separate, , 

 they nevertheless constitute rather widely different aspects of the 

 problem. Therefore, the results obtained in these present studies 

 will be summarized with the view of emphasizing the phylogeny of 

 structures. 



The Sutiiral Canal: 

 (a) Oligocene to Recent. 



{b) An ascendant character, becoming stronger and accelerating 

 with the progress of time. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



(c) Appearing in primitive forms of the Miocene after the begin- 

 ning of the fifth whorl {F. coronatum). 



(d) Appearing in a very specialized Pliocene form as early as the 

 middle of the third whorl (F. pyrum Caloosahatchie Race). 



(e) Though showing acceleration, its most notable changes are 

 due to exaggeration of its depth or of its width. 



(/) Its changes (variations or mutations) serve in part as a basis 

 for the species of systematists. Its persistence is of generic or 

 group value and serves to differentiate the canaliculate from the 

 non-canaliculate Fulgurs. 



The Noded Stage: 



(a) Oligocene to Recent in this group. 



(6) A declining character for this group, becoming weaker with 

 the progress of time. Accelerating more by compression than by 

 the dropping out of nodes. 



(c) Appearing in all forms at about the beginning of whorl two. 

 Closing the ontogeny of primitive forms of the Miocene (F. corona- 

 turn). 



(d) Disappearing in very specialized forms before the completion 

 of the fourth whorl {F. pyrum). 



(e) Though its termination may show widely different degrees of 

 acceleration, its most notable changes are due to its degeneration. 



(/) Its changes through acceleration and degeneration serve in 

 part as a basis for the species of systematists. Its persistence is of 

 no higher classificatory value, for it is a primitive feature widely 

 distributed among very diverse groups of marine gastropods. 



The Keeled Stage: 



(a) Miocene to Recent in this group. 



(b) An ascendant character in the fairly primitive species (F. 

 rugosum, F. canaliculatum) . A dechning character in the most 

 specialized {F. pyrum, F. incUe). 



(c) Appearing in more primitive forms toward the end of the 

 seventh whorl, in the most specialized toward the end of the fourth 

 whorl. 



(d) Terminating the ontogeny in fairly primitive forms (F. rugo- 

 sum, F. canaliculatum). Ending early in the sixth whorl of the most 

 speciahzed {F. pijrum Caloosahatchie Pliocene). 



(e) Changes due to compression, acceleration, degeneration, and 

 exaggeration are all well marked. 



(j) Its changes through compression, acceleration, degeneration, 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and exaggeration serve as a basis for the species of systeniatists. 

 It has no higher classificatory value. 



The Final Rounded Stage: 



(a) Late Miocene to Recent in this group. 



(6) An ascendant character appearing only in the most specialized 

 species {F. pynun, F. incile). Never a declining character, though it 

 may perhaps be indicative of decadence.- 



(c) Never appearing in primitive forms. Appearing early in the 

 sixth whorl of the most specialized form {F. pyrum Caloosahatchie 

 Phocene). Never, in this group, followed by any other ontogenetic 

 stage. 



(e) Its chief changes are due to its degree of exaggeration. 



(/) Its changes through exaggeration help to serve as a basis for 

 the species of systematists. It has no higher classificatory value. 



In the preparation of these notes the collections most extensively 

 studied were those of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia and of the Wagner Free Institute of Science of Philadelphia. 

 Acknowledgments are due to the officers of these institutions for 

 many courtesies and to Mrs. Ethel Ostrander Smith for the careful 

 execution of the drawings. 



Explanation of Plate XXIV. 



Fig. 1. — Fulgur coronaium Conrad. Miocene (St. Mary's). St. Mary's River, 

 Md. Apical view of an adult individual of about 6| whorls. Illustrates 

 a rather primitive type of the sutural canal and a vigorous noded stage 

 which persists to the end of the ontogeny. Diameter of last whorl at shoulder 

 = 79 mm. 



Fig. la. — Side view of specimen shown in fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. — Fulgur rugosum Conrad. Miocene (St. Mary's). St. Mary's River, 

 Md. Apical view of an adult individual of about 7 whorls. Shows a well- 

 developed sutural canal and a degenerating noded stage with its gradual 

 transition into a keeled stage toward the end of the seventh whorl. Diameter 

 of last whorl at shoulder = 100 mm. 



Fig. 2a. — Side view of specimen shown in fig. 2. 



Fig. 3. — Fulgur canaliculatum (L.). Recent. Apical view of an immature indi- 

 vidual of about Gf whorls. Shows a well-developed sutiu'al canal and an 

 accelerated and degenerate noded stage, which passes into a keeled stage 

 toward the end of the sixth whorl. Diameter of last whorl at shoulder = 

 67 mm. 



Fig. 3a. — Side view of specimen shown in fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. — Fulgur incile Conrad. Late Miocene. Yellow marl of Burwell Bay, 

 James River, Va. Apical view of nearly mature individual of 6j whorls. 

 Shows a highly developed sutural canal, a much ticcelerated and com- 

 pressed noded stage, and an accelerated and compressed keeled stase which 

 passes into a final rounded stage toward the end of the si.xth whorl. Diameter 

 of last whorl = 81 mm. 



Fig. 4a. — Side view of specimen shown in fig. 4. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o7& 



NEW OR LITTLE-KNOWN CRANEFLIES FROM THE UNITED STATES AND 

 CANADA. TIFULID5;, DIPTERA. 



BY CHARLES P. ALEXANDER. 



During the past few years the various collections of cranefiies in 

 the Eastern United States have been examined by the author ' and 

 observations made upon the more uncommon and less-known species.. 

 The following paper deals with the new species discovered, the 

 corrections in synonomy and the geographical distribution of insuf- 

 ficiently known forms. The collections examined are those of the 

 United States National Museum through the kindness of Mr. Knab,. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia through Mr. 

 Cresson, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge through 

 Mr. Henshaw, the Boston Society of Natural History through Mr. 

 Johnson and the private collections of Dr. W. G. Dietz, Mr. C. W. 

 Johnson, and Mr. M. C. Van Duzee. 



The Loew and Osten Sacken types are in the Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology (excepting Triogma exculpta Osten Sacken, which 

 is in The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia). Coquillett's 

 types and the Limnobinse described by Doane in his first paper are in 

 the National Museum. The species described by Mr. Johnson are in 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the Boston Society 

 of Natural History or in the private collection of the describer. 



Family TIPULID^. 



Subfamily LIMNOBIN.E. 



Tribe Limnobini. 



Genus DICRANOMYIA Stephens. 



1829. Dicranomyia Stephens; Cat. Brit. Ins., vol. 2, p. 243. 

 Dicranomyia nelliana sp. n. 



Color gray; wings with vein S>c short; membrane hyaline with 

 abundant brown spots and dots. 



Male, length, 5.5 mm.; wing, 7.5 mm. 



Rostrum, palpi and antennae dark brown, the segments of the 

 antennal flagellum rounded oval. Head gray. 



Thoracic dorsum gray, the prsescutum with a large dark brown 

 spot in front whose exact limits behind are uncertain, due to the 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



injury done to the thorax by the pin; scutum gray medially, the 

 lobes yellow outwardly, black on the inner part of the lobe; scutellum 

 gray medially, black on the sides; postnotum blackish gray. Pleurae 

 gray. Halteres yellow, the knob darker. Legs, coxse and trochanters 

 dull yellow, femora yellowish brown, the tip broadly dark brown, 

 tibiae light brown, the tip narrowly dark brown, tarsal segments 

 1 and 2 light brown, the tips of the segments brown, segments 3 to 5 

 brown. Wings hyaline with abundant brown markings in all the 

 cells including a series of four large marks along the costa, the third 

 at the origin of Rs and the fourth at the stigma; venation (PI. 

 XXVII, fig. 22): Sc short encUng opposite the origin of Rs, basal 

 deflection of Cui before the fork of M. 



Abdomen with the basal tergites dull brownish yellow, dark brown 

 laterally, segments 6 to 8 dark brown, the hypopygium yellow; 

 sternites dull light yellow, the lateral margin of the sclerites brown, 

 segments 6 to 8 uniformly darker. 



Holotype, cf , Colorado, in the U. S. National Museum. 



This is the only North American species with the short subcosta 

 that has the wings so spotted; superficially this insect resembles 

 ■simulans Walker which has a long subcosta, Init in the details it is 

 quite a different fly. 



Dicranomyia reticulata Alexander. 



1912. Furcomyia reticulata Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 44, 

 pp. 3.34, 335, pi. 11, fig. p. 



One female from Biscayne Bay, Dade Co., Fla., taken by Mrs. 

 Slosson, constitutes the first record for the United States. 



Genus EHIPIDIA Meigen, 

 1818. Rhipidia Meigen; Syst. Beschr., vol. 1, p. 153. 

 Rhipidia (Rhipidia) bryanti Johnson. 



1909. Rhipidia bryanti Johnson; Proceedings of the Boston Society of 

 Natural History, vol. 34, pp. 123, 124, pi. 16, fig. 20. 



This showy Rhipidia has been bred from decaying wood under- 

 neath bark by Mr. R. C. Shannon at Washington, D. C. The male 

 has never been described, but has been found several times; the 

 antennae in this sex are bipectinate. The collections of Dr. Dietz, 

 Mr. VanDuzee and the National Museum indicate a wide range for 

 this species. Orono, Penobscot Co., Me., June 30, 1913 (Alexander). 

 East Aurora, Erie Co., N. Y., June 15, 1912 (VanDuzee). Plummers 

 Island, Md., September 4, 1904. Potomac Park, Washington, D. C, 

 May 11, 1913 (Shannon). Black Mts., Buncombe Co., N. Car., 

 June 16, 1912 (Beutenumller). Braidentown, Manatee Co., Fla., 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



March (Van Duzee). Clear Creek, Clear Creek Co., Col., June 10, 

 1912 (Osier). Kirbyville, Jasper Co., Tex., March 21, 1908 (E. S. 

 Tucker). 



Rhipidia (Arhipidia) schwarzi Alexander. 



1912. Rhipidia schwarzi Alexander; Bulletin of the Brooklyn Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, pp. 13, 14, pi. 1, fig. e. 



One female from Biscayne Bay, Dade Co., Fla., taken by Mrs. 

 Slosson. Three females from Braidentown, Manatee Co., Fla., 

 taken in IVIarch, 1913, by Mr. M. C. Van Duzee. 



Rhipidia (Arhipidia) shannoni sp- n. 



Antennte subpectinate, black; thoracic dorsum without a broad 

 pale margin in front; postnotum velvety black; wings Avith a few 

 dark brown spots and with abundant gray dots in all the cells. 



Male, length, 4.9-5.1 mm.; wing, 6.7-6.8 mm. 



Female, length, 5.4-5.6 mm.; wing, 5.8-7.2 mm. 



Rostrum, palpi and antennae black. Head gray. 



Mesonotal prsescutum yellowish brown without distinct markings 

 except behind near the suture where there are two brown spots on 

 either side of the median line, narrowly separated from one another, 

 a more linear mark on either side; scutum very light yellow medially, 

 darker on the lobes with a dark brown ring on each lobe; scutellum 

 light yellow with a dusky mark on either side of the middle line; 

 postnotum with a deep velvety black triangle mth its point behind, 

 the sclerite pale on the sides. Pleurge brown with a gray bloom wnth 

 two narrow brown stripes, the more dorsal less clean-cut, the ventral 

 one narrow, well-defined, beginning on the fore coxa^ traversing the 

 bases of the other coxae. Halteres brownish yellow. Legs, coxae 

 yellow, brown at the base on the outer face, trochanters dull yellow, 

 femora yellowish brown, tibiae and tarsi yellowish brown, the two 

 apical segments of the latter black. Wings light yellow with a few 

 large broAvn spots as follows: a large one beyond the middle of vein 

 Sc, smaller ones above the arculus, origin of Rs, tip of >Sci and a large 

 rounded spot at the stigma; paler seams along the cord and outer 

 end of cell 1st M,, abundant pale gray dots in all the cells; venation 

 (PL XXVII, fig. 23). 

 Abdomen grayish brown, the pleural line narrowly dark. 

 Holotype, d', Plummers Island, Md., June 14, 1913 (R. C. 

 Shannon) . 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic, August 18, 1912 (J. R. IVIalloch). 

 Paratype, cf, Cabin John. Md., August 30 (Fred'k Knab); 9, 

 Gatun, Canal Zone, Panama, December 12, 1912, at light (J. Zetek). 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Related to R. multiguttata Alexander (Guatemala) and in my key 

 to the species of this genus^ it would run down to this form. It 

 differs widely in its wing-pattern which resembles that of certain 

 members of the suhpectinata group {annulicornis Enderlein, schwarzi 

 Alexander) in the prominent rounded dark spots at the base of the 

 sector and at the stigma. The thoracic pattern, especially the 

 velvety black postnotum, separates this species off from any of the 

 described forms. 



This species is named in honor of Mr. Raymond C. Shannon, 

 assistant to Mr. Knab in the Department of Dipterology at Wash- 

 ington, Avho collected the type and who has reared many interesting 

 cranefiies. 



Tribe Antochini. 



Genus TEUCHOLABIS Osten Sacken. 



1859. Teucholabis Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 222. 

 Teucholabis rubescens sp. n. 



Head and abdomen black; thorax red; wings dark colored: legs 

 brownish black. 



Male, length, G.8-7 mm.; wing, 7.1-7.3 mm. 



Rostrum short, dark brown; palpi dark brownish black. Antennae 

 dark brownish black,- the flagellar segments rounded. Head black. 



Pronotum dark brown. Mesothorax reddish orange. Halteres 

 brown, the knobs darker. Legs, coxae and trochanters dark brown, 

 femora brownish yellow at base, darkening to the tip, tibiae and 

 tarsi dark brownish black. Wings with a decided brown tinge, 

 stigma rather distinct, small; veins dark brown; venation (PI. 

 XXVII, fig. 24). 



Abdomen dark brownish black. 



Holotype, d", Rio Ruidoso, White Mts., N. Mex., alt. about 6,500 

 feet, July 25 (hovering around trunlcs of mountain cotton-wood) 

 (C. H. T. Townsend). 



Paratype, cf, topotypic. 



Related to T. flavithorax Wiedemann in the bright colored thorax 

 and dark wings; it is a smaller species with the wings much lighter 

 colored, the stigma smaller and more distinct, the femora with the 

 bases brighter colored, not entirely jet-black. In flavithorax the 

 legs are stout and covered with long, conspicuous hairs, while in 

 rubescens the hairs are not conspicuous; the basal tarsal segments of 

 flavithorax are light j^ellow, conspicuously lighter colored than the 



^Bulletin of the Bronl'Jyn Entomological Society, vol. S, pj). 7, Si; 1912. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



tibiae, but in rubescens the tarsi are dark brown, concolorous with 

 the tibiae. 



Tribe Eriopterini. 



Genus ERIOPTERA Meigen. 

 1803. Erioptera Meigen; Illiger's Magaz., vol. 2, p. 262. 



Subgenus MESOCYPHONA Osten Sacken. 

 1869. Mesocy-phona Osten Sacken; Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, p. 152. 

 Erioptera (Mesocyphona) rubia sp. n. 



Dark brownish black; wings dark brown with white spots and a 

 white cross-band at the cord. 



Female, length, 4 mm,; wing, 4.2 mm. 



Rostrmn, palpi and antennae black, flagellar segments rounded 

 oval. Head black. 



Thoracic dorsum dark brownish bjack with a sparse brown bloom, 

 the area darker in front of the pseudosutural foveae. Pleurae dark 

 brown with a sparse gray bloom. Halteres yellow, the knobs a 

 little darker. Legs, coxae and trochanters very dark brown, femora 

 dark brownish black, greatly enlarged at the tip, tibiae dark brown, 

 the tip darker, tarsi w4th the basal half of the metatarsi dull brownish 

 .yellow, remainder of the feet dark brown. Wings dark brown with 

 white marks as fohows: a large rounded spot at Sd, a smaller rounded 

 spot near the tip of 2d A, a broad white band at the cord entirely 

 traversing the wdngs, tip of the wing white including the ends of ceils 

 Rz, Ro and parts of R2 and Mi; it is probable that the base of the 

 wing is also white, but this is not certain; veins dark brown except 

 in the white markings, where they are china-white and difficult to 

 detect; venation (PI. XXVI, fig. 12). 



Abdomen dark brownish black, valves of the ovipositor brownish 

 yellow. 



Holotype, 9 , Chiricahui Mts., Cochise Co., Ariz., June 24 (H. G. 



•Hubbard). 



Erioptera (Mesocyphona) immaculata Alexander. 



1913. Erioptera {Mesocyphona) immaculata Alexander; 'Proceedings of the 

 United States National Museum, vol. 44, pp. .518, 519, pi. 66, fig. 20. 



One female from Denison, Grayson Co., Tex., June 22, 1904, 

 taken by Mr. H. S. Barber. 



Erioptera (Mesocyphona) eiseni Alexander. 



1913. Erioptera {Mesocyphona) eiseni Alexander; Proceedings of the 

 United States National Museum, vol. 44, pp. 516, 517, pi. 67, fig. 26. 



One male collected at La Cueva, Organ Mts., Donna Ana Co., 

 N. :Mex., alt., 5,300 feet, on September 1, by Prof. C. H. T. Townsend. 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Subgenus ERIOPTERA .Meigen. 

 1803. Erioptera Meigen; Illiger's Magazine, vol. 2, p. 262. 

 Erioptera (Erioptera) dorothea sp. n. 



Cell 1st Mo closed, but without a spur as in Hoplolahis; wings 

 spotted. 



Female, length, 4.5-4.6 mm.; wing, 5.6-6.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae with the basal segments 

 brown, flagellar segments dull yellow, the apical segments brown. 

 Head gray. 



Thoracic dorsum light gray, the praescutum narrowly margined 

 with pale in front, area in front of the pseudosutural fovese pale, 

 tuberculate pits dark brown. Pleurae light gray. Halteres light 

 yellow, the knob scarsely darker. Legs with the coxae thinly dusted 

 with gray, trochanters brownish yellow, femora dull yellow, the tip 

 narrowly brown, tibiae dull brownish j'ellow, the apex browned, 

 tarsi brown. Wings light gray with brqwn markings as follows: 

 a series of six large blotches along the costal margin, the second at the 

 origin of Rs, third at Sd, fourth, large -t, at tip of Sci and on cross- 

 vein r, fifth at the tip of Ri and the last at the tip of R2; brown 

 seams along the cord, outer end of cell 1st M-i and at the ends of the 

 longitudinal veins; venation (PI. XXVI, fig. 13) : cross-vein m present 

 less than one-half as long as the outer deflection of M3. 



Abdomen grayish brown, the apical tergites and the valves of the 

 ovipositor reddish yellow; the apical margins of the sclerites pale. 



Holotype, 9 , South Fork of Eagle Creek, White Mts., N. Mex., 

 alt. 8,000 feet, August 16 (C. H. T. Townsend). 



Paratype, 9 , topotypic. 



The wing-pattern is very similar to E. (Hoplolahis) armata O. S. 

 of the Eastern States, but the venation is quite different. 



Erioptera (Erioptera) lucia sp. n. 



Cell 1st M2 closed and very small; pleurites of the male hypo- 

 pygium bearing a triangular flattened lobe at the tip. 



Male, length, 4.5 mm.; wing, 6 mm. 



Female, length, 4.5 mm.; wing, 6.3 mm. 



Rostrum light yellow, palpi brown. Antennae light yellow, the 

 flagellum broken. Head light gray. 



Thoracic dorsum yellow without darker markings. Pleurae 

 yellow, the ventral sclerites darker and with a sparse grayish bloom. 

 Halteres light yellow. Legs, coxae and trochanters dull yellow, 

 femora and tibiae brownish yellow, tarsi brown. Wings hyaline or 

 nearly so, the veins brown; venation (PI. XXVL fig. 14, which shows 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



the very similar microcellula) ; basal clefloction of Cui just before the 

 fork of M, cell 1st Mi small, the outer deflection of M 3 and cross-vein 

 m subequal. 



Abdomen brownish yellow, sternites yellow. Hypopygium with 

 the pleurites rather long, slender with rather abundant long pale 

 hairs, the dorsal appendage flattened (PL XXVI, figs. 19, 20), tri- 

 angular, the base narrowed, the tip truncate, chitinized along the 

 margin, at the apex finely denticulate; ventral appendage shorter^ 

 at the tip bearing a chitinized hook that is directed caudad and 

 outward; gonapophyses sharp-pointed, chitinized, decussate. 



Holotype, cT', Colorado. 



Allotype, 9 , Beulah, N. Mex., alt. 8,000 fef>t, August (T. D. A. 

 Cockerell). 



Differs from all of the described American species except E. 

 microcellula sp. n., in the small closed cell 1st M-i. From microcellula 

 it can be easily separated by the male genitalia. 



Erioptera (Erioptera) microcellula sp. n. 



Very similar to E. lucia in all general features, but the male genitalia 

 are conspicuously different. The pleurites are stouter and bear an 

 irregular appendage shaped as in the figures (Pi. XXVI, figs. 16, 17 

 and 18). The ventral pleural appendage is not shown in the drawings; 

 it consists of a cylindrical fieshy lobe, narrower at the base, very 

 densely covered with long pale hairs. The gonapophyses seen from 

 beneath are long chitinized hooks, slightly curved inward but their 

 tips not meeting, along the sides with numerous appressed teeth. 



The wing-venation is shown in PI. XXVI, fig. 14. 



Male, length, 4.8 mm.; wing, 6.8 mm. 



Holotype, cT, Colorado. 



Subgenus EMPEDA Osten Sacken. 



1869. Empeda Osten Sacken; Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, p. 183. 

 Erioptera (Empeda) alicia sp. n. 



Body coloration light yellow without darker markings; cell 1st Mi 

 closed. 



Female, length, 3.5 mm.; wing, 4.9 mm. 



Rostrum light yellow, palpi brown. Antennae with the basal 

 segments light yellow, flagellar segments light brown. Head light 

 yellow. 



Thorax light yellow without darker markings, the pleurae of a 

 lighter shade than the dorsum. Halteres light brown. Legs, coxae 

 and trochanters yellow, femora brown, more yellowish at the base, 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



tibiae and tarsi light yellowish brown with abundant yellow hairs. 

 Wings hyaline or nearly so, the veins light yellow; venation (PI. 

 XXVI, fig. 15) as in stigmatica 0. S., but the cross-vein m is present, 

 closing the cell 1st M^. 



Abdomen brownish yellow. 



Holotype, 9 , Scotia, CaL, May 20, 1903 (H. S. Barber). 



This differs from the described American forms, stigmatica Osten 

 Sacken and nigrolineata Enderlein by its closed cell 1st M^ and the 

 uniform pale yellow coloration. 



Genus EHABDOMASTIX Skuse. 



1889. Rhabdomastix Skuse; Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, series 2, vol. 4, 

 pp. 828, 829. 



Subgenus SACANDAGA Alexander. 



1911. Sacandaga Alexander; Entomological News, vol. 22, pp. 349-351. 

 Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) caudata Lundbeck. 



1S98. Gonioiiujia {Einpcda) caudata Lundbeck; Diptera groenlandica, 

 Vidensk. Meddel. fra den naturh. Foren., p. 267, pi. 6, fig. 18. 



This curious fly was described from a single female taken at 

 PermiHarsukfiord, 01°, 30' N. L., Greenland. It seems to me that 

 t-he generic reference as given above is more nearly correct. The 

 €ross-vein r is shown in Dr. Lundbeck 's figure and it is indicated in 

 the material before me; it is probable that this species is an inter- 

 mediate form in the Eriopterine series. The following material was 

 studied: One female, Signuia, Baffin Land, August 2, 1897 (Schti- 

 chert and White). Several of both sexes, Kokanee Mt., Brit. Col., 

 alt. 8,000 feet, August 11, 1903 (R. P. Currie). 



I am greatly indebted to Dr. Lundbeck for a copy of the descrip- 

 tion and figure of this interesting fly. 



Genus GONOMYIA Meigen. 



Subgenus GONOMYIA Meigen. 



1818. Gonomyia Meigen; Syst. Beschr., vol. 1, p. 146. 



■Gonomyia (Gonomyia) obscura Doane. 



1900. Phyllolalm obscura Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, p. 192, pi. 8, fig. 7. 



The type, a female, is No. 7,034, in the LT. S. National Museum 

 Collection; it was taken at Pullman, Wash., June 22, 1898. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) blanda Osten Suckcn. 



1859. Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken; Proceedings of the Academy of Nat- 

 ural Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231. 



The following records extend the range of the species: Peachland, 

 B. Col., May 19, 1912. Blue Lake, Humboldt Co., CaL, June 24, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



1903 (J. C. Bradley). Tex., one female in the C. V. Riley Collection 

 in the National Museum. 



Subgenus LEIPONEURA Skuse. 

 1889. Leiponeura Skuse; Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, ser. 2, vol. 4, p. 795. 

 Gonomyia (Leiponeura) alexanderi Johnson. 



1912; Elliptera alexanderi Johnson; Psyche, vol. 19, p. 3, fig. 6. 



The following additional distribution in the United States: Black 

 Mts., Buncombe Co., N. Car., June 13, 1912 (BeutenmuUer). Piano, 

 Collin Co., Tex., August (E. S. Tucker). 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura') cinerea Doane. 



1900. Dicranomyia cinerea Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, pp. 182, 183, pi. 7, fig. 2. 



The type, a female, is No. 7,005 in the U. S. National Museum 

 Collection; it was taken at Pullman, Wash., August 10, 1898. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) manca Osten Sacken. 



1869. Goniomyia manca Osten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North 



America, vol. 4, pp. 178, 179. 

 1908. Dicranomyia curvivena Coquillett; Proceedings of the Entomological 



Society of Washington, vol. 9, p. 144. 



Coquillett's types were examined in Washington and proved to 

 belong to this species. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer Alexander. 



1913. Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer Alexander; Proceedings of the United 

 States National Museum, vol. 44, p. 506, pi. 66, fig. 14. 



Miami, Dade Co., Fla., December 19, 1912 (Fred'k Knab). Billy's 



Island, Okefenoke Swamp, Charlton Co., Ga., June 25, 1912 (Bradley 



and Leonard); several specimens of both sexes. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) sacandaga sp. n. 



Coloration yellow and brown; pleurae striped; wings with the 

 costa strongly yellow, stigma pale brown. 



Male, length, 3.2-3.4 mm.; wing, 3.3-3.5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brownish black. Antennae with the two 

 basal segments light yellow, the fiagellum broAvn. Head light 

 yellow with a dark brown spot in the middle. 



Mesonotal prsescutum rather dark brown, narrowly edged around 

 with light yellow; scutum pale yellow medially, the lobes brown 

 margined with yellow behind; scutellum l^rown, broadly margined 

 with yellow behind; postnotum brown. Pleurae striped brown and 

 yellow; the dorsal pleurites light yellowish brown, limited above by 

 the bright yellow margin of the prsescutum, limited below by the 

 dorsal pleural stripe which begins beneath the base of the halteres 

 39 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and goes to above the fore coxa; lower pleural stripe broader, travers- 

 ing the coxse, the yellow band between these dark stripes very clear, 

 at the anterior end including most of the fore coxa. Halteres light 

 yellow. Legs, coxae as described above, trochanters dull yellow, 

 femora brown broadly tipped with dark brown, tibiae and tarsi dark 

 brown. Wings light gray, the costal margin conspicuously light 

 yellow; cells C, Sc and Ri pale, almost hyaline; stigma pale brown, 

 oval; veins brown; venation (PI. XXVII, fig. 25): Sc ending far 

 before the origin of Rs, the distance equal to two-thirds the length 

 of the sector. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the apical third of each sclerite 

 yellow, the lateral margin narrowly yellowish; hypopygium reddish; 

 sternites brown, the extreme apex of each sclerite yellowish. Hypo- 

 pygium (PI. XXVI, fig. 21) with the pleurites rather long, slender, 

 with a few rather long hairs on the outer face near the tip, bearing 

 two appendages; of these the more dorsal is stouter, paler and less 

 chitinized on its basal two-thirds, the apex a strong chitinized tooth 

 with numerous pale hairs around its base; this appendage is con- 

 nected basally with the long, flattened basal appendage, which is a 

 little truncated at its apex, shaped as in the figure. The ventral 

 lobe of the pleura is produced into a short fleshy conical lobe pro- 

 vided with long hairs. The dorsal gonapophyses are short, curved, 

 strongly chitinized beyond the curve, pointed at the tip, with two 

 or three blunt teeth on the cephalic or under face of the hook. 



Holotype, cf , Sport Is., Sacandaga R., Fulton Co., N. Y., August 

 24, 1910 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 50 cf 9 , topotypic, July 5 and July 27, 1909. 

 "? Gonomyia slossonae sp. n. 



Cell 1st Mi open by the atrophy of the outer deflection of Ms,- 

 cell Ml absent. 



Female, length, 6-7 mm.; wing, 6-6.8 mm. 



Rostrum brown at the tip, yellowish at the base; palpi dark 

 brown. Antennae brown. Head light yellow. 



Thoracic pronotum yellow with a brown spot on either side. 

 Praescutum light yellow with dark brown stripes, the median one 

 darker in front, behind somewhat divided by a pale line; the lateral 

 stripes begin behind the pscudosutural foveae and are entirely con- 

 fluent with the middle stripe; pscudosutural foveae chestnut, very 

 far proximad; scutum yellow, the lobes largely dark brown; scutel- 

 lum dull yellow; postnotum brown, yellowish on the sides in front. 




1014.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



Pleurae, dorsal pleurites purplish brown, sternum lighter grayish 

 brown, the two enclosing a broad light yellow stripe beginning behind 

 the fore coxa and ending above the hind coxa. Halteres pale brown, 

 the knob a little darker. Legs with the coxee and trochanters dull 

 yellow, femora and tibiae yellow, the latter a little darkened at the 

 tip. tarsi dark brown. Wings light brown, stigma small, rather 

 indistinct, veins brown; venation (PI. XXVII, fig. 26): Sc2 far re- 

 moved from the tip of Sci; cross-vein r rather indistinct at the fork of 

 R.+z; cell Ml absent; outer deflection of M3 absent; basal deflection 

 of Cu, at the fork of M. 



Abdomen dark brown, the pleural line and the genital segment 

 yellowish. 



The paratype has the two basal segments of the antennae yellowish, 

 the head behind gray, cross-vein r very indistinct, basal deflection 

 of Cui before the fork of M. 



Holotype, 9 , Biscayne Bay, Dade Co., Fla. (Mrs. A. T. Slosson). 



Paratype, 9 , Paraiso, Canal Zone, January 29, 1911 (Aug. Busck). 



I was unable to detect tibial spurs on this insect. The general 

 appearance is more like that of a Lininophila than any other form 

 known to me and I refer it to Gonomyia with considerable doubt. 

 The long Sc and cross-vein r are not typical of Gonomyia. 



Genus CLADURA Osten Sacken. 

 1859. Cladura Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 229. 

 Cladura delicatula sp. n. 



From the only described American species, C. flavo-ferruqinea O. S. 

 (= indivisa O. S.), this form differs in its very much smaller size and 

 pale coloration. The specimens of indivisa mentioned by Osten Sacken,^ 

 where he states "some of the specimens, probably recently excluded, 

 were pale and without spots," may have belonged to this form. There 

 are no brown spots on the pleurae; the extreme lateral margin of the 

 abdominal tergites is dark; the wings are hyaline and lack the dark 

 markings on the cord, origin of the sector and on the outer deflection 

 of cell 1st Ml. I have compared this insect with the extensive 

 series of Cladura studied by Mr. Leonard and myself^ and have no 

 doubt of its specific distinctness. The wing is figured in PI. XXVII, 

 fig. 27. 



Female, length, 4.6-4.7 mm.; wing, 5.6-5.7 mm. 



2Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, p. 189. 



' Venational variation in Cladura, Joitrn. N. Y. Entomological Society, vol. 20, 

 pp. 36-39, 1912. 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Holotype, 9 , White Mts., N. Hamp. (H. K. Morrison). 

 Paratypes, 2 9 , topotypic. 



Tribe Limnophilini. 



Genus LIMNOPHILA Macquart. 



1834. Limnophila Macquart; Suit, a Buffon, vol. 1, p. 95. 



Limnophila albipes Leonard. 



1913. Limnophila albipes Leonard; Entomological News, vol. 25, pp. 248> 

 249, fig. 



One male of this species was taken by Mr. S. Frost at Tarrytown, 

 Westchester Co., N. Y., June 16, 1913. This constitutes the first 

 record for the State. 



LimnopMla alleni Johnson. 



1909. Limnophila alleni Johnson; Proceedings of the Boston Society of 

 Natural History, vol. 34, pp. 126, 127, pi. 16, fig. 18. 



This fine species was described from a single male. A male 

 specimen was taken in Coy Glen, Ithaca, N. Y,, June 20, 1910, by 

 Miss Anna H. Morgan. Another male in Simmon's woods, Glovers- 

 ville, N. Y., June 9, 1914, by the author. There is a badly injured 

 female in the Cornell Collection, taken in North Carolina by H. K. 

 Morrison; this specimen has a strong cross-vein in cell Ri, in both 

 wings uniting Ri+i with Mi. A second female was taken at Sugar 

 Grove, Fairfield Co., 0., May 19, 1901, by Prof. J. S. Hine; the 

 female never having been described, I make this specimen the 

 allotype and characterize this sex as follows: 



Allotype, 9 : Head dark brown; abdominal segments 2 to 4 l^right 

 orange-yellow, the caudal median portion brown, smallest on segment 

 2, largest on segment 4; segments 5 to the end of the body brownish 

 yellow with a narrow darker median stripe; sternites yellow with a 

 narrow median brown stripe extending the length of the segment; 

 no black band on the middle of the fore femora. 



Female, length, 36 mm.; wing, 22 mm. 



Specimen in the author's collection. 



Limnophila subcostata Alexander. 



1911. Phylidorea subcostata Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 43, 

 pp. 288, 289. 



Since this species was first described it was found to be rather 

 common in the bogs, deep woods and gorges in May and early June. 

 The species has not been figured hitherto and I show its venation in 

 PL XXV, fig. 1. A male from Fall Creek, Ithaca, N. Y., May 7, 1913 ; 

 a second male from the same place on May 13, 1913; a male from 

 Bear Creek bog, Frecville, N. Y., May 29, 1913. Several females 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



swept fr6m rank vegetation at Sacandaga Park, Fulton Co., N. Y., 

 June 1, 1914. Three females taken in Simmon's woods, Glovers- 

 ville, N. Y., June 3, 1914, in company with a cranefly fauna that is 

 quite characteristic of northern woodlands that support a rich 

 Canadian flora. {Dicranomyia puhipennis, Rhypholophus ruhellus, 

 Erioptera stigmatica, Adelphoniyia minuta, Limnophila rufibasis, 

 L. areolata, Rhaphidolabis flaveola, Tricyphona calcar, etc.) 



Subgenus EPHELIA Schiner. 



1S63. Ephelia Schiner; Wien. Entomol. Monatschr., vol. 7, p. 222. 

 Limnophila (Ephelia) johnsoni sp. n. 



Color yellow; wings hyaline, unmarked; a supernumerary cross- 

 vein in cell M. 



Male, length, 4 mm.; wing, 6.1 mm. 



Female, length, 7.2 mm.; wing, 8.6 mm. 



Rostrum pale brownish yellow; palpi and antennae very pale 

 yellowish brown. Head yellow with a pale bloom, eyes conspicu- 

 ously contrasting, black. 



Pronotum pale yellow. Mesonotal prsescutum pale yellow with 

 four broad indistinct darker stripes, of which the median pair are 

 the longest; scutum, scutellum and postnotum light yellow with 

 a sparse pale gray bloom. Pleurae yellowish. Halteres pale yellow. 

 Legs yellow, the tibiae and tarsi a little suffused with brown. Wings 

 pale yellow, the veins pale; venation (PL XXV, fig. 2): Rs rather 

 long, angulated at base, in a line with the deflection of R2+3; cross-vein 

 r not distinct; basal deflection of Rt+i and M1+2 strongly arcuated 

 and in a line; a strong supernumerary cross-vein in cell M. 



Abdomen very light brownish yellow. 



Holotype, d^, Mountain Lake, Fulton Co., N. Y., alt. 1,590 feet, 

 June 17, 1914 (C. P. Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , Bretton Woods, N. H., June 23, 1913 (C. W. Johnson). 



This interesting new species is named in honor of the well-known 

 dipterologist, Mr. Charles W. Johnson, who collected the allotype. 

 The only other species of Ephelia in America are aprilina O. S. and 

 superUneata Doane which have the wings heavily spotted with 

 brown. 



Subgenus DACTYLOLABIS Osten Sacken. 

 18.59. Dadylolabis Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 240. 



Limnophila (Dactylolabis) hortensia sp. n. 



Wings subhyaline; color gray, hypopygium reddish. 

 Male, length, about 8 mm.; wing, 8.8 mm. 

 Female, length, 7.8 8.4 mm.; wing, 8.4-8.8 mm. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Rostrum and palpi brown. Antennae with the basal segment 

 very elongate, dark brown, flagellum dark brown. Head gray. 



Thoracic dorsum light gray, the prsescutum with darker markings, 

 a very indistinct stripe on either side of the middle line, a more 

 distinct stripe on either side, narrowest in front. Pleurae light gray. 

 Halteres pale yellow. Legs, coxse and trochanters yellow, femora 

 yellow darkened at the tip, tibiae brownish yellow, brown at the tip, 

 tarsi brown. Wings subhyaline or faintly yellowish, stigma indis- 

 stint, veins brown; venation (PI. XXVII, fig. 29) : 7^2+3 about as long 

 as the basal deflection of Cih; cross-vein /• at about two-thirds the 

 length of Ri- 



Abdominal tergites gray, the hypopygium reddish yellow; ster- 

 nites blackish gray, each segment with more or less yellow at the 

 base. 



Holotype, cf , London Hill Mine, Bear Lake, Brit. Col., alt. 7,000 

 feet, July 29, 1903 (A. N. Caudell). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 10 cf 9 , topotypic. 



In the U. S. National Museum Collection this material was deter- 

 mined as L. cuhitalis Osten Sacken, and by Osten Sacken's key* it 

 would run down to that species. The following differences suffice to 

 separate the forms: 



1. The extreme base of R2 is perpendicular to the end of the sector; 

 cell R2 very long and narrow; wings more tinged with yellow; 

 hypopygium concolorous with the rest of the abdomen; size 



larger (Eastern United States) cuhitalis Osten Sacken. 



Ri leaves the end of the sector at an angle; cell Ri shorter, not so 

 elongated; wings nearly hyaline; hypopygium reddish, con- 

 spicuously brighter than the rest of the abdomen; size smaller 

 (British Columbia) hortensia, sp. n. 



Limnophila nigripleura A. and L. sp. n. 



Belongs to the luteipennis Osten Sacken group; wings clear; 

 pleurae with a conspicuous dark brown stripe from the cervical 

 sclerites to the postnotum. 



Male, length, 4.8-5 mm.; wing, 5.8-6 mm. 



Female, length, 6 mm.; wing 7 mm. 



Palpi and antennie dark brownish black. Head light clear gray, 

 provided with nunu^rous hairs. 



Pronotum dusted with gray. Mesonotal praescutum and scutum 



^Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol.4, pp. 202, 203. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



light brown, rather darker medially; scutelluin more yellow me- 

 dially; postnotum gray. Pleurae dull light yellow with a broad dark 

 brown stripe extending from the cervical sclerites to the postnotum; 

 mesosternum suffused with brown. Halteres light yellow, the 

 knobs darker. Legs, coxse and trochanters dull yellow, femora 

 brownish yellow, tibiie similar, the tip narrowly brown, tarsi brown. 

 Wings subhj'aline, stigma indistinct, veins brown; venation (PI. 

 XXV, fig. 3)^. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, sternites much paler, yellowish 

 white, hypopygium brown. 



Holotype, d", Sacandaga Park, Fulton Co., N. Y., June 20, 1910. 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Parat^^pes, 50 cf 9 , topotypic; Mountain Lake, Fulton Co., X. Y., 

 alt. 1,580 feet, June 15, 1914; Orono, Penobscot Co., Me., July 29, 

 1913; Ithaca, Tompkins Co., N. Y., July 7, 1911; Ridgewood, 

 Bergen Co., N. J. 



A common and widely distributed species in the Eastern United 

 States; the material has been compared with the types of contempta 

 in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, and the form differs as 

 described above. The species has been in the collection of Mr. 

 Leonard and myself for some years. 



A key to the species of the luteipennis group in the Eastern United 

 States. 



1. Cell Ml absent noveboracensis Alex.^ 



Cell Ml present 2. 



2. Wings wdth small brown dots on the cross-veins and at the forks, 



luteipennia O. S.^ 

 Wings clear, unspotted ; 3. 



3. Thorax clear Vjlue-gray inornata O. S.'^ 



Thorax brownish without gray color 4. 



4. Larger species with the pleurae unmarked contempta 0. S.* 



Smaller species; pleurae with a conspicuous dark brown stripe 



from the cervical sclerites to the postnotum, 



mgripleura A. & L., sp. n. 



The members of the luteipennis group have the following characters 

 in common: head narrow and prolonged behind; pronounced 

 pseudosutural or humeral pits; conspicuous tuberculate pits on 

 either side of the middle line of the praescutum in front. Venation 



^noveboracensis Alexander; Pysche, vol. 18, pp. 196 to 198; 1911. 

 '^luteipennis Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 2.36; 18.59. 

 Hnornata Osten Sacken; Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, pp. 219, 220; 1869. 

 « contempta Osten Sacken; I.e., pp. 218, 219; 1869. 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



of the wings, cells Rs and 1st Mo longer than cell Rf,; radial and 

 medial veins long and slender; second anal vein incurved at the tip. 

 Limnophila novae-angliae sp. n. 



Belongs to the adusta Osten Sac ken group; wings hyaline; body col- 

 oration yellowish ; abdomen of the male with a black subterminal ring. 



Male, length, 6.8-7.5 mm.; wing, 5.8-7.2 mm. 



Female, length, 8 mm.; wing, 7.5 mm. 



Rostrum yellowish, palpi brown. Antennae, basal segments 

 brownish yellow, the first four or five flagellar segments with the 

 extreme base yellowish, remainder of the antennse brown. Head 

 with a broad purplish brown band across the vertex from one eye 

 to the other; occiput rather abruptly reddish yellow. 



Thoracic notum reddish yellow without stripes. Pleurae lighter 

 yellow. Halteres short, rather pale, the knob only a little darker. 

 Legs, coxse and trochanters yellow, femora and tibse yellow, the 

 tips narrowly brown; metatarsus dull yellowish basally, tipped with 

 brown, remaining tarsal segments brown. Wings with a faint 

 yellowish tinge, a pale brown, oval stigma, no infuscation at the tip 

 of the wing; venation (PI. 1, fig. 4). 



Abdomen brownish yellow with a conspicuous subapical black 

 ring including segments 8 and 9 and the caudal half of 7; hypo- 

 pygium reddish yellow. 



The female sex is similar, but the abdomen lacks the black subapical 

 ring, and in some specimens the entire head is dark purplish brown. 



Holotype, d" , Ellsworth, Hancock Co., Me., August 10, 1913 

 (Miss Cordelia J. Stanwood). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 1 c^, 4 9 , type-locality, July 9 to August 10, 1913. 



A key to the species of the adusta group in the eastern United 

 States. 



1. Wings more or less clouded with brown apically; often with 



brown seams on the cross-veins 2. 



Wings uniform in coloration, the stigma indistinct 3. 



2. Yellowish species, the thoracic notum light yellow adusta O. S.^ 



Brown species, the thoracic notum dark brown swiilis Alex. ^'■' 



3. Larger species (wing of male, 9.5 mm.); abdomen without a 



black subterminal ring in the male lutea Doane^^ 



Small species (wing of male less than 7.5 mm.); abdomen of the 

 male with a i^lack subterminal ring novce-anglice, sp. n. 



^adusta Ostcn Sackcn, Fror. Acnd. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 235; 1859. Mon. Dipt. 

 N. Am., vol. 4, pp. 215-217; 18G9. 



^Himilis Alexander; Psyche, vol. 18, pp. 195, 196; 1911. 

 ^Hutea Doane; Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 8, p. 191; 1900. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



The members of the adusta group are distinguished by the follow- 

 ing characters: radial sector short, arcuated; cross-vein r situated 

 at about mid-length of Ri which is quite oblique. The species are 

 yellowish or brown and specimens in a single species vary much in 

 the intensity of their coloration. 



The following species have been examined and prove to belong 

 to this group of the genus: 



Limnophila fidvocostalis Coquillett/^ from Bering Islands, type 

 4,049 U. S. N. M. 



Limnophila costata Coquillett/^ from New Mexico, type 5,318 



u. s. n.'m. 



Limnophila insulana Johnson,^^ from Bermuda, type in the collec- 

 tion of Mr. Johnson. 

 Limnophila stanwoodae sp. n. 



Belongs to the quadrata Osten Sacken group; body-coloration 

 yellow; wings pale yellow; Rs long, cell il/i absent. 



Male, length, 6.6-6.9 mm.; wing, 7.5-7.9 mm. 



Female, length, 6.8-7.2 mm.; wing, 6.8-7.3 mm. 



Rostrum yellowish, palpi with the basal segments light colored, 

 terminal two brown. Antennae with the scape yellow, flagallum 

 brown, the proximal half of the first two flagellar segments yellowish. 

 Head reddish yellow. 



Thorax brownish yellow without distinct dark lines, the post- 

 notum with a narrow indistinct median stripe of brown. Pleurae, 

 pro-pleurae darker, the meso- and metapleurae light yellow. Halteres 

 pale yellow. Legs, coxae and trochanters light yellow, femora 

 brownish yellow darkening into brown at the tip, tibiae light brown 

 darker at the tip, tarsi dark brown. Wings with a light yellow tinge, 

 the stigma gray, oval, veins brown, the radial cross-vein mostly 

 obscured bj- the stigma; venation (PI. XXV, fig. 5). 



Abdomen brownish yellow, the lateral line brownish; sternites 

 a little brighter yellow; segment 8 and the caudal half of the 7th 

 brown; hypopygium yellowdsh; valves of the ovipositor of the 

 female long, acicular. 



Holotype, cf , Sacandaga Park, Fulton Co., N. Y., June 11, 1914. 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 3 cf , 18 9, Ellsworth, Hancock Co., Me., June 21- 

 July 23, 1913. 



12 Fur Seals and Fur-Seal Islands, vol. 4, p. 342; 1899. 

 ^^ Psyche, vol. 9, p. 149; 1901. 



"The Dipteran Fauna of Bermuda, Annals of the Entomological Society of 

 America, vol. 6, pp. 443, 444, fig. 2; 1913. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The paratypes were collected by Miss Cordelia J. Stanwood, the 

 well-known student of bird-life, in whose honor the species is named. 

 Miss Stanwood has done much to discover the craneflies in the 

 vicinity of her home city, and as a result of her careful observations 

 our knowledge of the Hancock Co. Tipulidse is remarkably com- 

 plete and constitutes one of the most valuable lists of a restricted 

 locality that has ever been secured. 

 Limnophila osborni sp. n. 



Belongs to the quadrata Osten Sacken group; mesonotum rich 

 brown; pleurse with a conspicuous black dorsal stripe; wings with a 

 brown tinge; cross-vein r at the fork of Ri+z; Rs long, cell Mi absent. 



Male, length, 6.3-6.5 mm.; wing, 7.4-7.5 mm. 



Rostrum a little reddish yellow, palpi and antennse dark brownish 

 black. Head dark brownish black. 



Mesonotal prsescutum rich yellowish brown with a very narrow 

 black line on either side of the broad median space, a deep black 

 spot on the anterior margin of the prsescutum continued foreward 

 onto the pronotal sclerites, lateral stripes not clearly indicated; 

 scutum yellowish brown with a darker brown suffusion on each 

 lobe; scutellum dull yellow; postnotum clear light gray. Pleurse 

 pale yellowish with a broad deep black stripe extending from the 

 cervical sclerites across the dorsal pleural sclerites to the abdomen; 

 the pleurse adjoining this broad conspicuous stripe very narrowly 

 gray pruinose; sternal sclerites pale dull yellow. Halteres rather 

 long, pale, the knob elongate, dark. Legs, coxse and trochanters 

 pale yellow, 'femora brownish yellow, the tip darker, tibise and tarsi 

 dark brown. Wings with a brown tinge, veins dark brown; A^ena- 

 tion (PI. XXV, fig. 6) : cross-vein r at the fork of R0+3. 



Abdominal tergites shining black; sternites dark brownish black; 

 basal sternites with some yellow; hypopygium reddish brown. 



The paratype from Phair, Me., shows the mesonotal prsescutum 

 very dark brown medially, a little lighter behind, lobes of the scutum 

 shiny black. 



Holotype, o^, Phair, Aroostook Co., Me., August 26, 1913 (Herbert 

 Osborn) . 



Paratypes, 1 d^ with the type; 2 cf from the Bangor Bog, near 

 Oroiio, Penobscot Co., Me., August 30, 1913 (Herbert Osborn). 



This interesting late summer member of the quadrata group is 

 named in honor of Dr. Herbert Osborn, who collected the type 

 material. 



A key to the species of the quadrata group in the eastern United 

 States. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



1. Mesonotum and pleurae yellowish or brownish yellow; wings pale 



yellow; size small stamooodce sp. n. 



Mesonotum and plcunie not yellow; size larger 2. 



2. Pleurae and mesonotum clear bluish black with a gray bloom, only 



the coxae conspicuously light yellow; wings with a yellowish 

 tinge; cross-vein r beyond the fork of R.+s on R2, 



qiiadrata O. 8.^^ 



Pleurae with a conspicuous black dorsal stripe; mesonotum rich 



brown; wings with a brown tinge; cross-vein r at the fork 



of R-2+3 osborni sp. n. 



The members of the quadrata group have the radial sector long 

 and in a line with Ri+s,' cells R3, Rs and 1st M. in a line or nearly so; 

 cell Ml absent. 

 Limnophila emmelina sp. n. 



Brown, abdomen hairy; wings brown; cell R^ sessile; cell Mi 

 absent. 



Male, length about 7 mm.; wing, 8.9 mm. 



Rostrum very short, reddish brown, the palpi brown. Antennae 

 rather short, dull yellowish brown. Head reddish brown. 



Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown without distinct darker mark- 

 ings. Pleurae dull yellow. Halteres yellow. Legs, coxae and 

 trochanters dull yellow, femora yellow, broadly tipped with brown, 

 tibiae dull yellow, rather narrowly tipped with brown, tarsi brown, the 

 base of the metatarsus a little paler. Wings with a slight brownish 

 tinge, no stigmal spot, veins brow^n; venation (PL XXVII, fig. 28): 

 Ro arising from the sector so that the cell Ri is sessile; cell Mi absent. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, sternites lighter colored. Holo- 

 type, d'. Great Falls, Va., April 20, 1913 (Fred'k Knab). 



From other members of the genus in which cell Mi is lacking 

 this species is readily distinguished by the sessile cell R2. 



Tribe Pedicini. 

 Genus ORNITHODES Coquillett. 

 1900. Ornithodes Coquillett; Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., vol. 2, p. 400. 

 Ornithodes harrimani Coquillett. 



1900. Ornithodes harrimani Coquillett; Proceedings of the Washington 

 Academy of Science, vol. 2, p. 400. 



The type is No. 5,203 in the U. S. National Museum. It is a 

 male from Virgin's Bay, Alaska, June 26, 1899. This insect is 

 very similar to Tricyphona in venation, but distinct in the curious 



^^ quadrata Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philn., p. 241; 1859; Mon. 

 Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, p. 230; 1869. 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



elongate rostrum, from which character Coquillett evidently derived 

 the generic name. 



Genus TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt. 

 1838. Tricyphona Zetterstedt: Ins. Lapponica, Dipt., p. 851. 

 Tricyphona katahdin sp. n. 



Color light brown; wings light yellow with sparse brown seams 

 and spots ; cross-vein m-cu lacking. 



Male, length, 6-7.6 mm.; wing, 6-6.9 mm. 



Female, length, 8.8-9.5 mm.; wing, 7.5-9 mm. 



Palpi dark brownish black, rostrum and head brownish graj^, 

 clearer gray on the vertex adjoining the eyes; first segment of the 

 antennae pale yellow, remainder of the antennae dark brown. 



Mesonotal prgescutum light fawn-brown with an indistinct brownish 

 strips on either side of the middle line and shorter lateral pale brown 

 stripes, these latter continued caudad onto the lobes of the scutum; 

 scutellum grayish; postnotum light yellowish brown with a whitish 

 bloom. Pleurae light yellow. Halteres pale, the knob a little 

 darker. Legs yellow, coxae and trochanters brownish yellow, femora 

 yellow darkening into brown on the apical half or more, tibiae and 

 tarsi dark brown. Wings light yellow, the veins yellow; small 

 brown markings as follows : a rounded spot on Sc^ continued up into 

 the costal cell; an oval spot at Sci; brown seams at the base of Rs, 

 base of -R2+3, cross-vein r, tip of R^+s, fork of -R4+6, cross-vein r-m; 

 venation (PL XXV, fig. 7) : cell R4 much shorter than cell R3, usually 

 one-half as long; cell Mi very short usually about equal to its petiole 

 beyond cross-vein m or a little longer; cell 1st M2 very long, narrow; 

 Cui and Mz fused for a distance obliterating cross-vein m-cu. 



Abdominal tergites with the basal two-thirds brown, apical third 

 yellowish; sternites dull brownish yellow, margined laterally with 

 brown, the apical segments with the margin reduced or lacking; 

 hypopygium pale. 



The female is similar to the male, but larger, especially the abdomen; 

 brown tips to the femora narrower; abdomen usually with more 

 yellow color, often with a broad median patch of yellowish on the 

 tergites. 



In some of the males the scapal segments of the antennae are dark 

 brown, concolorous with the rest of the antennae. 



There is some variation in venation in the series, the fusion of 

 Mz and Cui is sometimes lacking, the cross-vein m-cu being present 

 as in vernalis Osten Sacken; one female lacks cross-vein m in both 

 wings. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



Holotype, cf, at the foot of Mt. Katahdin, Piscataquis Co., Me., 

 along the Abol trail; altitude about 1,000 feet, August 22, 1913 

 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 9 cf , 5 9, topotypic (Morse and Alexander). 1 cf, 

 1 9 ,, Ellsworth, Hancock Co., Me., August 26 and September 1, 1913 

 (C. J. Stanwood). 



Paratypes have been deposited in the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology (through Prof. Morse) ; Boston Society of Natural History, 

 Maine Experiment Station, American Museum of Natural History, 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and the U. S. 

 National Museum. 



Related to Tricyphona vernalis Osten Sacken (PI. XXV, fig. 8), but 

 is a very different species. The size, sex for sex, is smaller; no sign 

 of the gray coloration so characteristic of vernalis; wings much paler, 

 yellowish, and the markings are reduced to mere spots and narrow 

 seams as described above, not conspicuous rounded clouds. In 

 normal individuals of both species, vernalis has cross-vein 7n-cu 

 present and cell Ms consequently very long; katahdi?i has Cui and 

 Ms fused for a greater or less length; the forks of cell Mi and R4 are 

 much shorter in katahdi7i than in vernalis. 



Genus POLYANG.ffi:US Doane. 



1900. Polyangmns Doane; Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vol. 8, p. 196. 



Polyangaeus maculatus Doane. 



1900. Polyangccas maculatus Doane: Journal of the New York Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, p. 197, pi. 8, fig. 20. 



The type is apparently not in the collection of the U. S. National 

 Museum with the remaining Doane types. There are a few speci- 

 mens from Eureka, Humboldt Co., Cal., May 22, 1903, taken by 

 Mr. H. S. Barber. 



Genus DICRANOTA Zetterstedt. 

 1838. Dicranoia Zetterstedt; Ins. Lapponica, Dipt., p. 8.51. 

 Dicranota pallida sp. n. 



Size large, wing over 7 mm.; body coloration light yellow; cell 

 Ml present, deep; cross-vein m present. 



Female, length, 8 mm.; \ving, 8.1 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi pale yellow. Antennae with the two basal 

 segments pale yellow, the flagellum broken. Head yellow. 



Thoracic dorsum light yellow, lobes of the scutum, basal portion 

 of the scutellum and the postnotum more brownish. Pleurae dull 

 yellow. Haltores broken. Legs, coxae and trochanters dull yellow, 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



femora yellow, a little darker at the tip, tibise and tarsi dull yellow, 

 the tips of the individual segments a little darkened. Wings broad, 

 hyaline, highly iridescent, veins brown; venation (PL XXVII, fig. 31) : 

 Rs long, angled and spurred near its origin; cell 1st M-z closed; cell 

 Ml present and very deep, its petiole very short so that the cell is 

 almost sessile. 



Abdomen dull yellow. 



Holotype, 9 , White Mts., N. H. (H. K. Morrison). 



This insect agrees with argentea Doane and novehoracensis sp. n., 

 in the presence of cell Mi of the wings. The pale coloration and the 

 closed cell 1st Mi readily separate it from these species. The related 

 Rhaphidolabis flaveola O. S. has the petiole of cell Mi long, the radial 

 sector short, no supernumerary cross-vein in cell Ri, etc. 



Dicranota novehoracensis sp. n. 



Body coloration gray; size small (length about 6 mm.); wings 

 with cell Ml present. 



Male, length, 5.5-6.3 mm.; wing, 6.6-7.5 mm. 



Female, length, 6-6.5 mm.; wing, 7.8-8 mm. 



Rostrum, palpi and antennae dark brown, the flagellar segments 

 short, oval. Head brownish gray, paler around the eyes, a very 

 narrow dark brown median stripe. 



Thoracic dorsum gray with three dark brown stripes on the dor- 

 sum, the middle stripe broadest, extending the length of the prse- 

 scutum, faintly bisected by a narrow pale median line; lateral 

 stripes short, l^eginning at about midlength of the prsescutum, extend- 

 ing back onto the scutum where they suffuse the lobes; scutellum and 

 postnotum light gray. Pleurae light gray. Halteres pale. Legs, 

 coxae brown with a sparse gray bloom on the outer face, trochanters 

 yellowish brown, remainder of the legs brown. Wings light gray, 

 the stigmal spot pale brown, not completely filling the space between 

 the cross-veins in the radial cells, veins dark brown; venation: 

 Rs rather elongate, oblique; cell Mi present. The venation is figured 

 in Needham's paper, 23d Report of the N. Y. State Entomologist 

 for 1907, pi. 19, fig. 1 (as rivularis Osten Sacken). 

 Abdomen light brownish gray. 



Holotype, &, Fall Creek, Ithaca, N. Y., May 8, 1914. 

 Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 4 cf , 1 9 , topotypic, 1 cf , 1 9 , Dolgeville, Fulton Co. 

 N. Y., May 16, 1914. 



The American species of Dicranota may be separated by the 

 following key. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. GUI 



1. Cell3/i absent 2. 



Cell Ml present 3. 



.2. Halteres with the knob darkened; antennae of the male much 



longer than the thorax (eastern United States) eucera 0. S.^^ 



Halteres pale; antennae of the male short (eastern United States), 



rivularis 0. S.^^ 



3. Cell 1st AI2 present; body-coloration yellowish (eastern United 



States) pallida sp. n. 



Cell 1st Mo absent; body-coloration grayish 4. 



4. Size large (length of female 9 mm.) (western United States), 



argentea Doane ^^ 

 Size small (length of the female 6 mm.) (eastern United States), 



novehoracensis sp. n. 



Genus EHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken. 



1869. Rhaphidolabis Osten Sacken; Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, p. 284. 

 Rhaphidolabis polymeroides sp. n. 



Antennae elongated, much longer than the head and thorax to- 

 gether, the segments of the flagellum with abundant outstretched 

 hairs; wings with a brown suffusion. 



Male, length about 6-6.5 mm.; wing, 7.4 mm. 



Rostrum brown, palpi dark brownish black. Antennae elongated, 

 if bent backward they would extend to the middle of the abdomen; 

 flagellar segments very long, cylindrical, with abundant outstretched 

 hairs. Head gray. 



Thoracic dorsum brown with three dark brown stripes, the median 

 one longest and broadest, the lateral stripes short, narrowed in 

 front, broader behind; scutum with the lobes dark brown these being 

 continuations of the lateral praescutal stripes; scutellum and post- 

 notum brown with a sparse gray bloom. Pleurae brownish 

 gray. Halteres long, pale at the extreme base, knob dark brown. 

 Legs, coxae brown, more yellowish at the tips, trochanters yellow, 

 femora yellow darkening into brown beyond the base, tibiae and 

 tarsi brown. Wings with a dark brown suffusion, stigma indistinct, 

 veins dark brown with conspicuous hairs; venation (PI. XXVH, 

 fig. 30). 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the hypopygium lighter brown; 

 sternites more yellowish. 



Holotype, c^, Eureka, Cal., May 22, 1903 (H. S. Barber). 



This insect is conspicuously different from any of the described 



^^ eucera Osten Sacken; Mon. Dipt. N. Am., vol. 4, pp. 281, 282; 1869. 

 "rivularis Osten Sacken; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 249, pi. 2, fig. 16; 1859. 

 ^^argentea Doane; Joiirn. N. Y. But. Soc, vol. 8, p. 196, pi. 8, fig. 19; 1900. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.^ 



Dicranotse. The resemblance of this insect to species of Polymera 

 is remarkable. 



Tribe Hexatomini. 



Genus ERIOCERA Macauart. 



1838. Eriocera Macquart; Dii^t. exot., vol. 1, No. 1, p. 74. 

 Eriocera tristis sp. n. 



Abdomen shining black; wings with a blackish suffusion; cross- 

 vein r at the fork of Ri+z. 



Female, length, 12 mm.; wing, 10-10.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brown. Antennge reddish brown. Head 

 dark brownish black, much paler, yellowish, along the margin of the 

 eye and a pale spot behind the frontal tubercle. Frontal tubercle 

 conspicuous, shiny, without hairs, deep chestnut-brown with a 

 V-shaped notch in front. 



Thorax with the pronotum dark brownish ]>lack; mesonotum 

 very dark brown with four indistinct blackish stripes, the middle 

 pair longest, divergent in front, the lateral pair abbreviated; scutum 

 and scutellum brown, the latter with a sparse gray bloom; postnotum 

 black. Pleurae dark brown. Halteres dark brownish black. Legs, 

 coxse brown, trochanters dull yellow, femora full yellow at base, 

 darkening into brown at the swollen tips; tibiae reddish brown, 

 tarsi brown. Wings blackish brown, stigma oval, dark brown; 

 venation: cross-vein r at the fork of Ri+zi cell 1st Mi small, almost 

 square ; basal deflection of Cwi beyond the fork of M. (The venation 

 is figured in Psyche, vol. 19, pi. 13, fig, 8; 1912.) 



Abdominal tergites dark shiny black; the terminal segment and 

 the ovipositor reddish brown; sternites yellowish, apices of the 

 segments dark brownish black, sometimes the yellow color indistinct. 



Holotype, cf , Fall Creek, Ithaca, N. Y., August 1, 1912 (Alex- 

 ander) . 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratypes, 1 9 , topotypic, (Carl Ilg). 2 9 , topotypic (Carl Ilg.)- 



I examined the types oi fiiliginosa 0. S. on September 11, 1913. 

 The wing is suffused with rather light brown; stigma small, rounded, 

 brown; cross-vein r just beyond the fork of R2+3. E. tristis may be 

 told bj" the very dark color of the wings and the deep black abdomen; 

 this is the species mentioned by me in Psyche, December, 1912, 

 p. 169, imder the account of E. fultonensis. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



Subfamily CYLINDROTOMIN^. 

 Genus CYLINDEOTOMA Macquart. 

 1834. Cylindrotoma Macquart; Suit, a Buffon, vol. 1, p. 107. 

 Cylindrotoma splendens Doane. 



1900. Cylindrotoma splendens Doane; Journal of the New York Ento- 

 mological Society, vol. 8, p. 197, pi. 8, fig. 21. 



1900. Cylindrotoma junda Coquillett; Proceedings of the Washington 

 Academy of Sciences, vol. 2, p. 401. 



Doane's type (No. 7,051 U. S. N. M., from Unalaska, August 24, 

 1897) was described three months before Coquillett's junda (No. 

 5,204 U. S. N. M., Virgin's Bay, Alaska, June 26, 1899) appeared 

 in press. 



Cylindrotoma tarsalis Johnson. 



1912. Cylindrotoma tarsalis Johnson; Psyche, vol. 19, p. 2, fig. 4. 



1912. Cylindrotoma (?) anomala Johnson; Psyche, vol. 19, pp. 2, 3, fig. 3. 



The two names given above represent one and the same species. 

 I have found this insect conmionly in various parts of Fulton 

 County, N. Y. 



Genua PHALACROCERA Schiner. 

 1863. Phalacrocera Schiner; Wien. Ent. Monatschr., vol. 7, p. 224. 

 Phalacrocera neoxena sp. n. 



Wings dark-colored; vein Ri persistent at the tip as in replicata 

 Linnseus. 



Male, length, 11.8-12 mm.; wing, 10.4-11 mm. 



Female, length, 11.8 mm.; wing, 10.9-11.9 mm. 



Rostrmn and palpi dark brownish black. Antennae dark brownish 

 black. Head broad, black with a sparse grayish bloom. 



Pronotum black with a gray bloom which is most intense on the 

 sides of the scleriles. Mesonotal prsescutum with a pale yellowish 

 gray bloom; four indistinct darker stripes, the median pair long, 

 the lateral pair short and broad; scutum, scutellum and postnotum 

 with a pale grayish white bloom. Pleurae black with a gray bloom 

 which leaves patches of the ground color at intervals. Halteres 

 long, brown. Legs, coxae grey, trochanters and femora yellowish 

 brown, brown at the tip, tibiae light brown, darker brown at the tip, 

 tarsi dark brown. Wings with a brown suffusion; stigma prominent, 

 oval, brown; veins dark brown; venation (PI. XXV, fig. 10): Rs 

 very long, almost straight; cross- vein r short; i^i beyond r persistent 

 as in replicata, not atrophied as in tipulina; cross-vein r-m present 

 as a short vein or else lost by the slight fusion of 7^4+5 on M1+2; cell 

 1st Mo large, arcuated at. the base. 



Abdominal tergites brown with a dark brownish black median 

 40 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF fOct., 



line; lateral margins of the sclerites narrowly dark brownish black; 

 sternites dark brown. Hypopygial sternites bright yellowish chest- 

 nut, tergites brown. 



Holotype, cf , Nipigon, Algona District, Ontario, June 17, 1913 

 (Dr. E. M. Walker). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratype, No. I, &, topotypic; No. 2, cf , type locality, June 18, 

 1913; No. 3, 9, North Fairhaven, Cayuga Co., N. Y., May 17, 

 1913, found dead in lake drift (Dr. J. G. Needham and Miss Emme- 

 line Moore), 



The type and paratype No. 1 is in the collection of the University 

 of Toronto. 



This insect is closest to P. repUcata Linnseus of Europe, but the 

 wings are darker colored, much more tinged with brown; the vena- 

 tion, although similar in the persistence of the tip of Ri, shows a 

 tendency to the reduction of the radio-median cross-vein,^ the base 

 of cell 1st Mi more arcuated and other details. Griinberg's figure 

 of the male hypopygium of replicata^^ shows differences in the shape 

 of the 9th tergite and the conspicuous appendages of the 9th sternite. 

 The wing venation of the three known species of the genus are figured 

 on PI. XXV, replicata, fig. 9, neoxena, fig. 10, tipulina, fig. 11. 



At this point it may be mentioned that there is a great difference 

 in the interpretation of the venation of the radial field of the wing 

 in this tribe of craneflies. Most authors have considered the 

 vein R2 of the Cylindrotominse to represent a combined fusion of 

 Ri+2+3 from the tip of the wing backward. From a study of the 

 venation of the known species of this tribe, about a dozen in all, 

 it is seen that the above interpretation of a long backward fusion 

 of i? 1+2+3 is impossible and two other possible explanations are here 

 presented. Looking over the series of wings before me, it seems 

 that the vein hitherto considered as Rn-2+3 is, in reality, R3 or R-2+3 

 alone, Ri becoming atrophied beyond the radial cross-vein rather 

 than obliterating this cross-vein and fusing with R3. This is proved 

 by the wings of Phalacrocera shown in the plate, in replicata and 

 neoxena, Ri being separated from R2+3, whereas in tipulina the tip of 

 Ri is atrophied l)eyond cross-vein r. A second possible interpretation 

 is that of considering the small cross-vein mentioned by Osten 

 Sackcn as occurring in the costal cell beyond the tip of Sc and present 

 as a very indistinct vein \n many specimens (Liogma) as being the 



"Susswasscrfauna Dcutsc-lilands, vol. 2A, pt. 1, p. 33; 1910. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



tip of i?i. In this case Ri is quite short, extending only a slight 

 distance beyond the fork of the radial sector, and the cross-vein r 

 is very long and simulates a section of vein R, ending at the outer 

 part of the stigma; according to this interpretation, Ri would be 

 separate, but usually very indistinct or lacking, /?•> is atrophied at 

 its tip except in two species of Phalacrocera (revlicata and neoxena)^ 

 whereas the vein hitherto considered as being Ri+2+3 is really R3 

 alone. This latter explanation of these veins of the radial field is 

 probably the correct one. 



Subfamily TIPULIN.E. 

 Tribe Tipulini. 



Genus LONGURIO Loew. 

 1869. Longurio Loew; Berl. Ent. Zeitschr., vol. 1.3, p. 3. 



Longurio minimus sp. n.l 



Size small (wing under 18 mm.) ; wings with cell Mi long-petiolate. 



Male, length, 21 mm.; wing, 14.6 mm.; abdomen, 17.6 mm. 



Female, length, 27 mm.; wdng, 16.4 mm.; abdomen, 22 mm. 



Frontal prolongation of the head very short, yellowish, the nasus 

 elongate, prominent. Palpi and mouth parts brown. Antennae 

 short, light yellow, the flagellar segments gradually decreasing in 

 size from the b,ase outward. Eyes rather large, metallic, the front 

 between them narrowed. Head yellowish brown. 



Thoracic dorsum browmish yellow, the stripes indistinct in 

 alcoholic material. Pleurae dull yellow. Halteres yellow, the knob 

 a little darker. Legs, coxae and trochanters dull light yellow, femora 

 and tibiae brownish yellow broadly brown at the tip, tarsi brown. 

 Wings with a pale brown suffusion, stigma prominent, a narrow brown 

 seam along the cord; venation (PI. XXVII, fig. 32): petiole of cell 

 Mi nearly as long as the cell itself. 



Abdominal tergites dull yellow, 7 to 9 dark brown, sternites light 

 yellow, each segment with an elongate brown subterminal median 

 mark, on the 6th and 7th segments covering the caudal end of the 

 segment, 8th sternite dark brown, paler caudally, hypopygium 

 brown. 



Holotype, cf, Tallulah Falls, Rabun Co., Ga., June 17, 1910 

 (J. C. Bradley). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Paratype, cf, topotypic. 



I am referring this insect to Longurio, although it does not agree 

 with Longurio testaceus Loew, the genotype, in some respects. L. 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



testaceus^^ is a much larger insect (male, wing 25.5 mm., abdomen 

 36 mm.), the cell 1st M^ is much larger and the petiole of cell Mi is 

 very short. lEschnosoma rivertonensis Johnson,^! a paratype of which 

 is in my collection through the kindness of Mr. Johnson, is a large fly 

 (malcj wing 22 mm., abdomen 30 mm.) with cell Mi entirely sessile. 



Explanation of Plates XXV, XXVI, XXVII. 



Plate XXV. — Fig. 1. — Wing of Ldmnophila subcostata Alexander. 

 Fig. 2. — Wing of L. (Ephelia) johnsoni sp. n. 

 Fig. 3. — Wing of L. nigripleura A. & L. sp. n. 

 Fig. 4. — Wing of L. novoe-anglice sp. n. 

 Fig. 5. — Wing of L. stanivoodce sp. n. 

 Fig. 6. — Wing of L. osborni sp. n. 

 Fig. 7. — -Wing of Tricyphona katahdin sp. n. 

 Fig. 8. — Wing of T. vernalis Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 9. — Wing of Phalacrocera replicata Linnaeus. 

 Fig. 10. — Wing of P. neoxena sp. n. 

 Fig. 11. — Wing of P. tipidina Osten Sacken. 



Plate XXVI. — Fig. 12. — Wing of Erioptera (Mesocyphona) rubia sp. n. 

 Fig. 13. — Wing of E. (Erioptera) dorothea sp. n. 

 Fig. 14. — Wing of E. (Erioptera) microceUula sp. n. 

 J'ig. 15. — Wing of E. (Empeda) alicia sp. n. 

 Fig. 16. — Hypopygium of E. (E.) microceUula; dorsal aspect of the pleurite 



and appendages, d = dorsal appendage. 

 Fig. 17. — Hypopygium oi E. (E.) microceUula; ventral aspect of the dorsal 



apical appendage. 

 Fig. 18. — Hypopygium of E. (E.) microceUula; ventral aspect of the ventral 



gonapophyses. 

 Fig. 19. — Hypopygium of E. (E.) lucia; lateral aspect of the pleurite. 

 Fig. 20. — Hypopygium of E. (E.) lucia; dorsal aspect of the pleurite. 

 Fig. 21. — Hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) sacandaga; dorsal aspect. 



Plate XXVII. — Fig. 22. — Wing of Dicranomyia nelliana sp. n. 

 Fig. 23. — Wing of Rhipidia (Arhipidia) shannoni sp. n. 

 Fig. 24. — Wing of Teucholabis rubescens sp. n. 

 J'ig. 2.5. — Wing of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) sacandaga sp. n. 

 Fig. 26. — Wing of ? Gonomyia slossonoe sp. n. 

 Fig. 27. — Wing of Cladura delicatula sp. n. 

 Fig. 28. — Wing of Limnophila emmelina sp. n. , 

 Fig. 29. — Wing of L. (Dactylolabis) hortensia sp. n. 

 Fig. 30. — \\'ing of lihaphidolabis polymeroides sp. n. 

 Fig. 31. — Wing of Dicranota pallida sp. n. 

 Fig. 32. — -Wing of Longurio minimus sp. n. 



^"Berlin. Entomol. Zeilsckr., vol. 13, p. 3; 1869. 



'^^ Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, vol. 34, p. 116, pi. 16, 

 figs. 13-15; 1909. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



i 



November 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper under the 

 following title had been presented for publication: 



"A biological reconnaissance of the Okefenokee Swamp in 

 Georgia" (November 16). 



The death of J. Ronaldson Magee, a member, November 4, 1914, 

 was announced. 



A. H, Gottschall was elected a member. 



Alfred Werner of Zurich, and Frank Lawson Adams of Montreal, 

 were elected correspondents. 



. November 24. 

 The President, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the Chair. 

 Special meeting. 



The President announced that the object of the meeting was the 

 presentation of the gold medal of the Hayden Memorial Geological 

 Award to Henry Fairfield Osborn, Sc.D., LL.D., in recognition of 

 his brilliant paleontological studies. 



The presentation address was made by the President. 

 The address was responded to by Dr. Osborn. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



NEW NEUROPTEROID INSECTS, NATIVE AND EXOTIC. 

 BY NATHAN BANKS. 



The descriptions of the following new species have accumulated 

 during the past year, based mostly on accessions to my collection, 

 but the types of some (indicated in text) are in other collections. 

 I have included a table to the genera of Myrmeleonids known from 

 the Indo-Australian region. 



PERLIDiE. 

 Perlodes slossonae n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 17. 



Marked much as in P. signata, the pale between ocelli runs back 

 to pronotum; basal joint of antennae dark; pronotum dark, a broad 

 pale median stripe; thorax black; abdomen brown; setae pale, tips 

 of joints dark. Legs pale brownish. Wings faintly fumose, venation 

 brownish. Ocelli as in P. signata; pronotum a little broader than 

 long. Wings about as in P. signata, the apical cross-veins confined 

 to subcosta, radius or its branches, the costal margin concave at 

 humeral cross-vein. Female ventral plate with a median excision, 

 and a curved tooth each side. Expanse 28 mm. 



From Mt. Washington (Mrs. Slosson). 



Perlodes tibialis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 19. 



Yellowish, head with faint dark mark back of each posterior 

 ocellus, and dark on clypeus; pronotum dark on sides, and each side 

 of the narrow pale median line, the disk each side mostly pale; thorax 

 dark on sides, pale in middle; legs pale, the femora dark at tips, the 

 base of tibise black, stopping suddenly and beyond very pale, but 

 dark near tip; abdomen dull black, setse pale. Wings with brownish 

 venation. Posterior ocelli rather nearer to eyes than to each other; 

 pronotum broader than long, much broader in front than behind. 

 Wings long, the apical part with cross-veins all over from costa to 

 hind margin; costal area with eight or more cross-veins. Expanse 

 37 mm. 



From Olympia Mts., Wash. (Kincaid). 

 Perla georgiana n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 16. 



Mostly pale yellowish throughout; bases of the hind femora 

 infuscated; abdomen brown, discolored. Ocellar triangle broader 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



than long, posterior ocelli much nearer to each other than to the 

 eyes, and the bosses are much nearer to posterior ocelli than to the 

 eyes; the anterior bosses are elongate, oblique, and together form 

 a V. Setae short, the joints for some distance out are broader than 

 long. Pronotum much broader in front than l)ehind, anterior 

 corners sharp, posterior corners rounded, sides much rugose. In 

 fore wings there are four cross- veins beyond the end of the subcosta; 

 eight or nine costal cross-veins; radial sector with four branches; 

 about seven median and five cubital cross-veins. Expanse 32 mm. 

 From Clayton, Ga., 2,000 to 3,000 feet, June (Davis). 



Perla xenocia n. sp. PI. XXVIII, figs. 5, 12. 



Head yellow, a large dark brown spot over the ocelli, pointed 

 behind, truncate in front; antennae and palpi black, pronotum dull 

 black, anterior lobe of mesonotum, and two spots on the metanotum 

 black; abdomen pale yellow; setae black; legs black, femora (except 

 tips) pale yellow; sternum yellow. Wings dark brown, veins dark, 

 except the yellow costa. Posterior ocelli fully three diameters apart, 

 a little further from the anterior ocellus, and not one diameter from 

 the lateral bosses, latter about their length from the eyes. Pro- 

 notum about one and one-fifth broader than long, barely narrowed 

 behind, the corners nearly square, surface rugose. Wings rather 

 long, about 17 costals, not far apart, three or four cross-veins beyond 

 end of subcosta, three branches of the radial sector, and a minute 

 apical fork, about 7 or 8 median and cubital cross-veins, in hind 

 wangs 8 or 9 cubital cross-veins, and the anal fork has three branches; 

 in both wings the radial cross-vein is oblique. Last joint of the 

 maxillary palpi about twice as long as the preceding joint; the third 

 nearly twice as long as the fourth; last ta,rsal joint twice as long as 

 others together. Expanse 42-45 mm. 



From Singla, Darjiling, India, 1,500 feet, April (type in Indian 

 Museum, cotype in author's collection). 



Neoperla phantoma n. sp. 



Body pale yellowish; margin of pronotum faintly brown, palpi 

 dark brown or black, antennae slightly brown, basal part pale; 

 black mark above on tip of femur, and on tip of last tarsal joint. 

 Wings faintly brownish, veins (except costal) brown, hind wings 

 all pale, except brown radial cross-vein. Ocelli not diameter apart, 

 about twice as far from the eyes, ocelli very close to the bosses, 

 latter scarcely their length from the eyes; third joint of maxillary 

 palpi barely longer than the fourth; last tarsal joint hardly twice 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



as long as others together, tibia I ahnost as broad as the femur. 

 Pronotuin only slightly rugose, broader in front than behind, much 

 wider than long. Fore wings with about 8 costals, and two or three 

 beyond subcosta, two branches of radial sector, three median and 

 three cubital cross-veins; in hind wings the anal fork has only one 

 branch. Expanse 20 mm. 



From Mallali, British Guiana, March (Parish). 



Neoperla plutonis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 10. 



Large black species. Head yellow, a large, broad, blackish spot 

 over ocelli extending to the anterior bosses, and reaching laterally 

 toward eyes. Antennae and palpi blackish; pronotum black on sides, 

 pale in middle; thorax brown; abdomen pale on base, dark at tip, 

 setae yellow brown; legs brown, basal tarsal joints pale, blackish at 

 tips of femora and on bases and tips of tibiae. Wings blackish, 

 veins (except costal) dark. Ocelli a little more than their diameter 

 apart, not one-half their diameter from the bosses, which are larger, 

 transverse, and not their length from the eyes; third joint of max- 

 illary palpi much longer than the fourth; last tarsal joint fully three 

 times as long as the others together, tibia I not one-half as wide as 

 the femur. Pronotum much broader than long, sides rounded, 

 surface rugose. Wings large, about 15 costal cross-veins, four 

 beyond end of subcosta; three or four branches of radial sector; 

 10 median and 7 cubital cross-veins; in the hind wings the anal 

 fork has four branches; anal plate of female broad, emarginate 

 behind. Expanse 56 mm. 



From La Trinidad, Turricares, and Orosi, Costa Rica (Garlepp). 



Neoperla nigriceps n. sp. 



Head and pronotum nearly shining black, sides of pronotum very 

 narrowly pale, thorax and abdomen brown, antennae and setae pale 

 yellowish, basal joint of the antennae partly dark; wings brown, 

 veins scarcely darker; legs pale, tibia and apex of femur H brown. 

 Last joint of palpus long and slender. Head bent down, eyes very 

 prominent, ocelli very small, about three diameters apart, twice as 

 far from the eyes, lateral bosses no larger than ocelli, much lower 

 down, and fully their length from the eyes and twice as far from 

 ocelli. Pronotum fully one and a half times as broad as long, much 

 broader in front, corners rounded, surface rugose; last joint of tarsi 

 three times as long as others together. Wings slender, costals few 

 and weak, radial sector forked once (nearer anastomosis than to tip), 

 7 median and 7 cubital cross-veins. Expanse 15 mm. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 L 



From Belgaum, India, 2,000 feet, April. Its small size and blacic 

 head and pronotum distinguish it. 

 Neoperla bolivari n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. l. 



Yellowish; margin of pronotum brown; abdomen brown on base; 

 a brown, spot each side on mesonotum; antennae pale brownish; 

 last joint of tarsus, tip of tibia, and mark at tip of femur above black 

 or dark brown. Wings faintly brownish, veins pale, except radial 

 cross-vein is black. Ocelli about one and a-half times their diameter 

 apart, only half as far from the bosses,, the latter about their length 

 from the eyes; pronotum about one and a fourth times broader 

 than long, hardly narrowed behind, anterior corners sharp, posterior 

 ones rounded, surface rugose, three ridges near middle. Third 

 joint of maxillary palpi much longer than the fourth; legs stout, 

 femur I twice as broad as the tibia, last tarsal joint more than twice 

 as long as others together. Female ventral plate very large, emar- 

 ginate in the middle behind. Wings long; about 15 costal cross- 

 veins, four cross-veins beyond end of subcosta; three branches ta 

 radial sector beyond anastomosis, 8 to 10 median cross-veins, 6 or 7 

 cubital cross-veins, in hind wings the anal fork has five branches.. 

 Expanse 54 mm. 



From Monte Soccoro, Colombia, 3,600 m. (Fassl). 

 Isoperla texana n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 3. 



Yellowish; a faint dark V-mark connecting the ocelli; palpi 

 yellowish brown, antennae pale on basal fourth, dark beyond; pro- 

 notum brown on the sides; abdomen yellow above and below, setae 

 pale yellow, the tips dark; legs yellow, a black streak on outer side 

 of femora and on basal outer part of tibse, and the tips of tarsi dark; 

 wings brownish, veins dark brown, costal area yellowish. Posterior 

 ocelli a little nearer to eyes than to each other, bosses about half 

 way from ocelli to bases of antennae; pronotum one and a half times 

 as broad as long, hardly broader in front, sides straight, corners 

 right-angled, sides coarsely rugulose; fore wings with two or three 

 cross-veins beyond the end of the subcosta; radial sector forked 

 twice beyond the anastomosis, about six median and five cubital 

 cross-veins. Expanse 23 mm. 



From Kerrville, 19 June; Dallas, 20 May; Victoria, 26 May; 

 and Devils River, 3 May, all Texas. Type in U. S. Natl. Museum. 



PSOOID^. 

 Psocus stigmosalis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. IS. 



In general similar to P. semistriatus, but the stigma is more slender 

 and marked with black, mostly behind. Nasus lineated with black,. 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



a black spot in front of the ocelli, and the vertex mostly dark in the 

 middle; antennae minutely hairy, the second joint about as long as 

 the distance between the eyes. Thorax black, a yellow Y-mark 

 in front; legs brownish yellow; wings hyaline, veins dark, vein 

 closing the cell and base of radial fork whitish hyaline, a dark dot 

 at base of the stigma, the stigma very long, much longer than the 

 longest side of the cell, very low and evenlj^ rounded behind, almost 

 wholly blackish, dark dot at end of anal vein. The cell about once 

 and a-half longer than broad at base, four-sided, tip about one-half 

 ■of base. Length 4 mm. 



From Cambridge, Mass., September, Franconia, N. H., Bear Mt., 

 Salisbury, and East River, Conn. (Ely). 



Caecilius posticus n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 15. 



Body dark, perhaps discolored; legs and antennae pale yellowish. 

 Wings hyaline; fore wings mostly dark on basal part, but some pale 

 near base, and on costal area, and behind. A streak runs down the 

 cubitus to the areola postica; the upper branch of the radial sector 

 is also margined with dark brown, and the three marginal cells also 

 dark brown, the brown extending into the areola postica. The 

 upper branch of the radial sector runs more vertical than usual, 

 ending just beyond the stigma; the latter long and slender, unmarked. 

 Hind wings are hyaline. Length 2.7 mm. 



From Sea Cliff, N. Y., in August. 



Caecilius umbrosus n. sp. 



Yellowish; nasus and clypeus dark brown, a brown, median streak 

 on face and vertex; the antennae pale; legs pale; thoracic notum dark 

 brown; abdomen mostly pale, dark at tip. Wings pale brown, rather 

 darker near veins and toward tip, stigma also darker; venation 

 brown, the vein at base of anal cell hyaline white. Second joint of 

 antennae not as long as vertex width in female, in male one and a 

 fourth longer, third joint two-thirds as long as the second. Wings 

 rather long, stigma large, about three times as long as Avide, nearly 

 angulate behind, the two parts of the pedicel of radial fork subequal 

 in length, anal cell plainly longer than high. Length 3 mm. 



From Hillside, Fulton Co., N. Y. (Alexander), and Sea Cliff, 

 L. L, N. Y. 



EPHEMERIDuE. 

 Anagenesia greeni n. sp. 



Grayish yellow; abdomen blackish above, thoracic notum dark; 

 front legs mostly gray, others pale yellowish, setae white, with 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



extremely long' white hair. Wings gray, veins yellowish, the sub- 

 costa and radius dark. Vein 8 emits two branches from above near 

 base, and then forks below, the branch running to middle of hind 

 margin; between this fork and vein 8 are four longitudinal veins, 

 the third a branch of the second, the fourth a branch of third (in 

 this respect nearer typical Palingenia). Vein 9 connected several 

 times to fork of 8; vein 9^ unconnected. Vein 6 forked plainly before 

 middle of wing, one long intercalary in this fork. Expanse 28 mm. 

 From Peradeniya, Ceylon, 17 March (Green). 



Hexagenia callineura n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 13. 



9 . Yellowish; a broad black band on face from eye to eye through 

 ocelli, facial carina with a black spot; pronotum and thorax with a 

 black stripe each side; a black stripe on each upper side of abdomen, 

 on the tip of each segment the stripe is broader than on base. Leg I 

 rather reddish, last tarsal joint blackish; other legs paler, tips of 

 femora and tibiae dark. Wings hyaline; most of veins yellowish, 

 subcosta and radius dark, cross-veins dark, some in base of fore 

 wings narrowly bordered; in hind wings the veins pale, cross-veins 

 dark, in discal part are about 16 or 18 cross-veins black, narrowly 

 bordered with white or hyaline, and outside of this a blackish fusi- 

 form mark, giving these veins a strikingly beautiful appearance. 

 Setse pale, some joints dark at tip. Expanse 44 mm. 



From Call, Colombia, 1,000 m. (Fassl.). 



Ehoenanthus posticus n. sp. 



cf. Yellowish, much marked with dark brown. A dark mark 

 between eyes; pronotum broadly dark each side, thorax with a faint 

 brown median streak, a dark brown line each side to base of fore 

 wings, below this a large dark spot, a spot on pleura under fore 

 wings. Abdomen yellow, base brown, each segment, beyond second, 

 with a long dark U-mark each side, leaving a narrow median yellow 

 stripe, last segment pale above; venter pale, each seg-ment with a 

 dark streak or spot; tip of forceps dark; setse pale, tips of joints 

 dark; legs pale, claws dark; leg I more reddish, tip of tibia dark. 

 Tibia I of male almost twice as long as femur, tarsal joints one and 

 two subequal, third three-fourths of second, fourth about one-third 

 of third. Wings hardly hyaline, veins brown, apical costal area 

 red-brown, and the subcostal area to base also red-brown; the 

 costals in basal part of wing are margined; beyond middle of wing 

 are four dark spots, the outer three in a transverse row, the other, 

 larger, is on the forking of vein 6. Hind wings with tip and veins 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



brown, and a brown spot near outer third on the first fork. Expanse 

 27 mm. 



From Kandy, 4 November, Ceylon (Green). 



Leptophlebia assimilis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 8. 



Very close to L. prcepedita, but in male the basal joints of forceps: 

 seen from below are widely divergent, and this basal piece does not 

 extend so far out below the next piece as in L. pnepedita (in L. 

 prcepedita the basal pieces seen from beneath are close together). 

 Marked much as L. prcepedita, but no trace of color in the costal 

 area of wings, middle segments of the abdomen bordered behind with 

 dark, ventral segments with a blotch on each side. Leg I of male 

 with about same proportions as in L. prcBpedita, but whole leg shorter; 

 no costals in apical part of wing crossed. Expanse 14 mm. 



From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May. 



Ephemerella vernalis n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 11. 



(^. Size and appearance of E. excrucians, but in leg I of cf the 

 tarsi are fully one-fourth longer, the third joint being over three- 

 fourths as long as second (in E. excrucians much shorter). Markings 

 of body, legs and setae as in E. excrucians, venter shows no marks, 

 the last two segments being dark. Venation about the same, the 

 costals in apical part are crossed. In. the male forceps the next to 

 last joint is plainly swollen. Expanse 22 mm. 



From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May. 

 Habrophlebia jocosa n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 14. 



cf . Head and thorax dark brown; abdomen dark on base and 

 tip, segments 3 to 6 each with a very large median triangular pale 

 mark occupying most of these segments, segment 7 with a pale basal 

 band. Venter mostly pale, dark at base and tip; setse white, legs 

 whitish, femur I nearly black, tip of tibia I dark; in tarsus I the 

 first joint is nearly one-half of the tibia, second joint almost as long 

 as first, third fully one-half of second ; mid and hind legs very slender. 

 Wings hyaline, unmarked, veins pale, indistinct, five costals in the 

 swollen apical part; hind wings about twice as long as broad, angu- 

 late on the middle of costa. Expanse 10 mm. 



From Asheville and Black Mt., north fork of the Swannanoa 

 River, N. C, in May. H. americana has hind femora banded twice, 

 and dorsum of the abdomen darker. 

 Callibsetis semicostata n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 7. 



cf. Brownish; many parts, especially venter, finely dotted, 

 some of the thoracic sutures are whitish; legs pale, darker on tips 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



'Of the tarsi, setse white. Wings hyaline, veins pale, a light brown 

 'Or reddish l)rown streak extending from middle of base one-half way 

 out to tip, it is bounded in front by the subcosta and behind by the 

 fourth vein, it contains two or three pale dots, sometimes a few dark 

 marks in costal area. Two rows of cross-veins, the outer not much 

 more than their length from the margin; marginal intercalaries in 

 pairs. Hind wings fully twice as long as broad, angulate in front. 

 Expanse 17 mm. 



From Stony Mt., Manitoba, 16 September (Wallis). 



Callibaetis pretiosa n. sp. 



Brown; thoracic notum with two narrow white stripes above; 

 abdomen with darker spots on sides; legs pale, tips of tibiae and 

 tarsal joints dark; setse wh^te, the joinings dark. Wings hyaline, 

 veins and cross-veins mostly white, except where there are dark 

 marks; five or six faint irregular clouds along the hind border, a 

 fairly broad, brown stripe from base to tip on costa, its hind border 

 sinuate with four projections, four hyaline spots in the subcostal 

 area before middle, about five pale spots on costal area before middle, 

 and several more or less connected beyond. Outer row of cross- 

 veins not twice their length from margin. Marginal intercalaries 

 single, except toward tip of wing. Expanse 14 mm. 



From Great Falls, Va., 11 September. 

 Heptagenia coxalis n. sp. 



d^. Pale yellowish, carina of face dark each side above, antennae 

 pale, thoracic notum with indistinct median darker streak, base of 

 abdomen dark above, beyond pale, segments not plainly marked, 

 but last two are dark; legs pale, a black line, wider at each end, 

 at base of the hind coxa, femora faintly dark at tips, and tip of tibia I 

 dark; claspers pale; setae pale, dark at tips of joints. Wings hyaline, 

 veins brown, apical costal area brownish yellow, some of the costals 

 faintly margined; 8 costals before bulla, 14 beyond, all simple. 

 Tarsus I of male has first joint about one-third of second, the third 

 equal second, fourth twice as long as first, fifth fully as long as first. 



9 . Mostl}' yellow throughout, black line on hind coxa as in cf ; 

 some costals margined. Expanse 21 mm. 



From Clear Creek, Colo. (Oslar). 



Heptagenia subeequalis n. sp. 



cf . Head and thorax rather reddish yellow, a shining black ring 

 at base of each ocellus, antennae pale, thoracic notum rather dark 

 behind, abdomen pale, segments dark on apical one-third or one- 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



half above, last three segments brownish, claspers pale, setae faintly 

 dark ; legs pale, a black dot at tip of femur and tibia I ; wings hya- 

 line, veins and cross-veins mostly brown, apical costal portion brown- 

 ish yellow, no costals nor radial cross-veins margined; hind wings 

 not dark at tip, in fore wing about five costals before bulla, fourteen 

 beyond, a few near the middle are crossed. In the tarsus I of male 

 the first joint is fully two-thirds of second, the third equals second, 

 the fourth scarcely longer than first, the fifth not one-third of first. 

 Expanse 17 mm. 



From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, May. 

 Heptagenia Carolina n. sp. 



cf . Head and thorax pale yellowish or reddish yellow, no distinct 

 marks on either head or thorax, basal joints of antennse pale, rest 

 black. Abdomen pale, more grayish, 'each segment with a narrow 

 apical dark ring of even width all around, penultimate segment 

 rather darker, claspers brown, setae brownish. Legs pale, femora I 

 and II with mechan and apical dark bands, hind femur dark near 

 tip, tibia and the tarsal joints narrowly dark at tips. Wings hyaline, 

 rather brownish yellow in apical costal part and extending around 

 to the tip, venation brown; the costals, or most of them, with a dark 

 spot at costal end, the first three or four radial cross-veins narrowly 

 margined, then one or two broadly margined with dark; tip of hind 

 wings slightly fumose. In fore wing only about six costals before 

 bulla, about ten beyond. Tarsus I of male has the first joint a little 

 more than one-half of second, third equal second, fourth longer than 

 first, fifth not one-half of first. Expanse 24 mm. 



9 . Yellow or reddish yellow throughout, the abdominal segments 

 narrowly dark at tips above, setae faintly dark, darker at tips of the 

 joints, femora faintly dark in middle and tip, apical part of tarsi 

 dark. Wings as in the male, two or three radial cross-veins broadly 

 margined. Expanse 30 mm. 



From Black Mt., north fork Swannanoa River, N. C, in May. 



ASCALAPHID^. 

 Phalascusa cruciger n. sp. 



Yellowish; tips of lateral fringe of face gray; vertex with gray 

 and black hair; antenna) black; thorax yellow above; a brown mark 

 near base of fore wings, a brown median line on anterior lobe and 

 behind this is a brown cross; metascutellum with median brown 

 mark. Abdomen of female short, swollen in middle, white-haired 

 at base, above with two rows of yellow spots, separated b}' black 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



line as in P. hildcbranrlti; pleurse pale, with a brown stripe which 

 is furcate in front; lej^>; i)ale yellow, tarsi faintly brown. Wings 

 hyaline, much more slender than in P. hildehrandti, each wing with 

 two brown spots, one at base, another larger over origin of radial 

 sector and ol)liquely back to margin, some cross-veins between spots 

 are margined, and some costals also with yellowish brown. Expanse 

 58 mm. 



From River Errer, Abyssinia, Africa (Kristensen) . 



Suhpalasca orsedice n. sp. 



Blackish; face below yellowish, gray hair below antennse, above 

 darker or even black, club of antennae wholly dark, antennae reaching 

 about four cells from stigma; thorax hardly paler in the middle; 

 abdomen of female dark, in male rather yellowish above, black 

 streak on sides, venter pale; legs black, femora yellowish, at least 

 near base. Wings hyaline, venation dark, stigma nearly black, in 

 fore wing scarcely longer above than high, with four veinlets, in hind 

 wings a little longer, with five veinlets, two rows of cells beyond 

 stigma. In fore wing the radial sector arises much beyond the 

 cubital fork, four cross-veins before it, in hind wing only two cross- 

 veins before radial sector, in both wings five branches to the radial 

 sector. Expanse 58 mm. 



From Singla, Dargiling, India (Type in Indian Museum; cotype 

 in author's .collection). 



MYRMELEONID^. 

 Dendroleon javanus n. sp. 



Head pale, a large black band between eyes extending above and 

 below the antennse, vertex darker, darker across posterior part; 

 palpi wholly pale; pronotum dark in middle, and irregularly on the 

 sides, thoracic notum dark, with a few pale spots on sides; abdomen 

 dark, paler on base; legs pale, tips of femora and tibia dark, tibiae 

 I and II with broad dark band before middle, femur I with a dark 

 streak above, coxae I with dark spot in front. Wings hyaline, veins 

 pale and dark, subcosta with dark dots, the radius and cubitus with 

 long dark streaks, many cross-veins entirely dark, an oblique line 

 up from end of anal vein in fore Avings, a recurved line (extending 

 tow'ard the first one) from middle of hind margin, another dark line 

 or streak on cross-veins up from union of median and cubitus, a 

 short dark streak and spot just before the tip of wing, and outer 

 margin with many dark patches; in hind wings the apical and outer 

 marginal marks are present as in the fore wings. Pronotum longer 




»618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



than broad, narrowed in front; legs very long and slender, the tarsi 

 very long, the basal joint ^s long as the apical, and each as long as 

 other three together, spurs long and slender, nearly straight, except 

 at tip, covering two joints; tibia as long as femur. Wings rather 

 broad at stigma, the hind pair plainly longer than front pair, and 

 narrower; a few costals forked before stigma, in fore wings three 

 cross-veins before radial sector, one in hind wings, in both the anal 

 stops soon after cubital fork, ten branches of radial sector, about 

 25 radial cross-veins before the black-margined one. Expanse, 

 fore wings, 75 mm. 



From Java (Berlin Museum). 



Acanthaclisis hesperus n. sp. 



Similar to A. fallax Rbr. The pronotum shows a dark median 

 stripe, forked In front, lateral margins black, and between is a dark 

 stripe reaching to the transverse groove. Abdomen above dis- 

 tinctly striped with pale; male appendages yellowish; venter black. 

 Wings with many small spots by veins, dark spots between subcosta 

 ,and radius, but not between median and cubitus; hind wings without 

 marks; forks of axillary vein of fore wings connected by several 

 cross-veins. Larger than any A. fallax I have seen. From Eureka, 

 Utah, 15 July, and Jemez Mts., N. Mex., 28 July and 4 August 

 (Spaldings, Woodgate). Separated from A. fallax by black venter. 

 A. texana Hagen, I take to be A. fallax. I have this latter species 

 from Phoenix, Ariz., as well as Mexico. From A. americana these 

 forms may be separated thus: 



1. Forks of axillary vein in fore wings not connected by cross-veins; 



a spot in apical part of hind wings; dark between median and 

 cubital vein of fore \\dngs; male genitalia black; venter black, 



the abdomen not striped above americana. 



Forks of axillary vein of fore wings connected by one to three 

 cross-veins; no spot in hind wings; abdomen more or less 

 plainly striped with pale above; male appendag(5s mostly 

 yellowish : 2. 



2. Venter yellowish fallax. 



Venter black hesperus. 



Jlyrmeleon agriope n. sp. 



Very similar to M. crudelis Walk., but the vertex shows a trans- 

 verse row of four large pale spots, the submedian pair being longi- 

 tudinal, the lateral ones transverse and extending to the eyes; behind 

 -on the vertex are pale spaces in middle and on the sides. The 

 pronotum shows pale mark in middle of anterior part, the sides 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



largely pale, -with a narrow dark stripe reaching as far as the trans- 

 verse furrow. The wings are similar to that species, with clotted 

 veins, and longer dark spaces on subcosta, radius and cubitus. 

 In fore A\nngs are about seven cross-veins before radial sector, in the 

 hind wings about four such cross-veins, in both pairs eight branches 

 to the radial sector. Expanse 53 to 55 mm. 



From Claremont, Calif., and Nogales and Phoenix, Ariz. 



Myrmeleon heriocles n. sp. 



Face shining black, in front with two submecUan projections, 

 mouth and cheeks pale, tips of palpi dark; vertex black, wdth trans- 

 verse row of more or less shining rufous spots; antennae black, basal 

 joints pale; pronotum dull black, but lateral half of anterior part 

 pale, and the margin of posterior part also pale; thorax dull black, 

 with pale yellow stripe through the bases of the wings, continuous 

 with the pale margin of pronotum; abdomen dull black; legs pale, 

 broad dark bands on middle of the femora, narrow bands near base 

 and at tip of tibiae I and II, most of tarsi black, hind tibia with 

 black stripe within; wings hyahne, veins dotted with dark, the 

 subcosta, radius, and cubitus with longer dark spaces,, stigma dark. 

 In fore wings about nine cross-veins before radial sector, in hind 

 wings six or eight such cross-veins, ten branches to radial sector in 

 each wing, in fore wings three cross-veins between anal and cubital 

 fork, in both pairs the tips are acute. Expanse 70 to 73 mm. 



From Southern Pines, N. C, in May; also occurs in Florida. 

 I had considered this as probably the M. tectus of Walker, but a view 

 of the type shows that it is a different species. 



Macronemurus darwini n. sp. 



Face pale yellowish, with a median vertical dark mark, a dark 

 spot below each antenna, vertex mostly dark, but usually pale each 

 side near eye; antennae pale, darker at tip; palpi pale; pronotum 

 pale, with a pair of submedian brown marks, sometimes faint; 

 thorax yellowish brown, indistinctly marked, but usually with a 

 pale median line; abdomen dark, often pale at base and some seg- 

 ments pale at base above, legs pale, unmarked, spines black, spurs 

 equal two tarsal joints on front legs. Wings with the longitudinal 

 veins spotted with dark, and most of the cross-veins dark at one or 

 both ends ; in both wings is a long dark brown streak from near end 

 of median and cubitus out toward tip, and usually a series of spots 

 beyond the stigma to near the tip. In fore wings six cross-veins 

 before the radial sector, eight or nine branches to the radial sector 

 41 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



in each wing; in fore wings the anal is connected three or four times 

 to cubital fork. Expanse 40-46 mm. 

 From Port Darwin, N. Australia. 



Acratoleon n. gen. 



Similar to Paraglenurus, but claws not as long and more curved; 

 spurs about as long as four tarsal joints. Legs slender, the tibia 

 about as long as the femur. Antennae long, hardly diameter apart 

 at base ; palpi very short. Wings moderately Inroad at stigma, outer 

 margin not sinuate, hind wings a little longer than front pair, one 

 cross-vein in hind wings before the radial sector, about seven such 

 cross-veins in the fore wings; the radial sector arises much before 

 the cubital fork. 



Acratoleon flavum n. sp. Pi. XXVIII, fig. 6. 



Pale yellowish; a dark mark each side under antennae, a dark 

 spot each side on vertex; palpi all pale; antennae pale yellow, tip 

 dark; pronotum pale, a dark interrupted stripe near each margin, 

 broader behind; thorax pale, dark streak over bases of wings, pleurae 

 with large dark spot under fore wings, a smaller spot under hind 

 wings. Abdomen pale, tips of segments dark. Wings hyaline; 

 veins pale yellow, those behind radius marked with dark at ends of 

 the cross-veins, cross-veins nearly all dark and mostly margined 

 with dark, a dark mark above in front of stigma, outer margin to the 

 outer forkings mostly faintly dark, and dark cloud over end of anal; 

 in hind wing venation similar to fore wing, and with two dark streaks 

 near tip of wing, one on the anterior margin. Legs pale yellow, 

 with black liristles, spurs and claws pale. Pronotum one and one- 

 half times as long as broad, a little narrowed in front; legs slender, 

 spurs very long and nearly straight, almost reaching to last joint, 

 basal joint much shorter than the fifth; hind wings longer than fore 

 wings and a little more narrow; fore wings broad at stigma and 

 rather short beyond, costals mostly simple, seven cross-veins before 

 radial sector, about eight branches of radial sector, 28 radial cross- 

 veins, anal connected four times to cubital fork in fore wings, only 

 twice in hind wings. Expanse, fore wings, 65 mm. 



From Salamo Archipel., Shortlands Island (C. Ribbe). Type in 

 Berlin Museum. 



This new genus is placed in the following table of the genera of 

 the Indo- Australasian region. In this table a hitherto unused 

 character, the condition of the anal veins in the fore wings, is con- 

 sidered of prime importance. (PI. XXVIII, figs. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24.) 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.. 621 



1. Four separate anal veins in the fore wing; in hind wings the anal 



is not connected directly to the hind margin, but to the second 



anal by a series of cross-veins (Palparini) 2. 



Two or three anal veins in fore wing; in hind wings the anal is 

 connected by cross-veins directly to the margin 4. 



2. Two or more series of costal cells near to base of wing Stenares. 



But one series of costal cells until near the stigma 3. 



3. Antennae not their diameter apart at base; the basal joint with 



long bristles Palpares. 



Antennae more than their diameter apart at base Tomatares. 



4. In the fore wings the second and third anal veins are separate, 



but connected by a short cross- vein; a line in apex of the 



fore wings (Dendroleonini) 5. 



In the fore wings the second and third anal veins are united for 

 at least one point 11. 



5. In the hind wings the anal vein runs parallel to the cubitus for a 



long distance, finally curving to the margin beyond the middle 



of wing Echthomyrmex. 



In hind wings the anal runs to margin in a normal manner 6. 



6. Legs very slender, spurs very long and nearly straight, the first 



tarsal joint about as long as the last Dendroleon. 



Spurs and legs shorter; first tarsal joint much shorter than the 

 last 7. 



7. Outer margin of wings barely sinuate 9. 



Outer margin of wings sinuate or excised 8. 



8. Many radial cross-veins are crossed; the venation very dense; 



outer margin of wings sinuate Episalus. 



Radial cross-veins not crossed; outer margin of wings excised, 



Periclystus. 



9. Many of the costals crossed; abdomen about as long as wings; 



cubito-anal cross- veins longer than anal cross- veins, 



Epicanthaclisis. 

 Few of costals crossed; abdomen much shorter than wings 10. 



10. Cubito-anal cross-veins shorter than anal cross- veins; venation 



irregular Layahima. 



Cubito-anal cross-veins longer than anal cross-veins; venation 

 fairly regular Glenoleon. 



11. One cross-vein before radial sector in the hind wings, 



(Macronemurini) 12. 



Three or more cross-veins before the radial sector in the hind 



A\dngs; antennae wide apart at base (Myrmeleonini) 20. 



12. No spurs to tibiae 13. 



Spurs distinct 14. 



13. Many costals forked; two series of anal cells for part of the 



way Chrysoleon. 



Costals simple; one series of anal cells; wings rather narrow, 



Compsoleon. 




622 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



14. In fore wings the anal vein runs parallel to the cubitus for a 



long distance '. 15. 



In fore wings the anal vein does not parallel the cubitus; a diver- 

 gent cubital fork present 16. 



15. First tarsal joint much shorter than the fifth Creagris. 



First tarsal joint about as long as the fifth Protoplectron. 



16. Legs rather short and stout 17. 



Legs very slender, tibia about as long as the femur; no line in 



apex of fore wings 18. 



17. Spurs about as long as first two joints of tarsus together, 



Macronemurus. 

 Spurs as long as three or four tarsal joints together. Distoleon. 



18. Radial sector arises much before the cul^ital fork; spurs as long 



as three or four tarsal joints Acratoleon. 



Radial sector arises much beyond the cubital fork; spurs hardly 

 more than two tarsal joints 19. 



19. Claws very long, little curved, half as long as last tarsal joint; 



pronotum rather short Paraglenurus. 



Claws not one-half as long as last tarsal joint; pronotum long 

 and slender Indoleon. 



20. Legs short and stout; spurs much longer than basal joint of 



tarsus, which is short 21. 



Legs more slender; spurs but little longer than basal joint of 

 tarsus 24. 



21. Larger species; legs very stout and hairy; spurs much curved 



or even bent 22. 



Smaller species; legs not very stout; spurs but little curved; 

 costal area with but one series of cells Myrmec^lurus. 



22. Hind Avings with a double series of costal cells; antennae very 



long; veinlets before origin of radial sector in fore wing are 



crossed Stiphroneura. 



Hind A\angs with but one series of costal cells 23. 



23. Second and third anal veins in fore wing form a closed cell, 



Onclus. 

 Second and third anal do not form a closed cell ..Acanthaclisis. 



24. Branches of radial sector are bent to form a line or groove in 



apical part of the wing Nesoleon. 



No such lin(> of bent veins in apical part of wing 25. 



25. Fore wings with a double series of costal cells in middle of length; 



a single series at each end Weelius. 



A double series of costal cells only near the stigma 26. 



26. A series of (ionnecting veinlets just before the stigma; wings 



very broad at stigma Hagenomyia. 



No such series, perhaps one or two veinlets connected to others, 

 several may be forked 27. 



27. Some cross- veins before radial sector crossed; wings broad at 



stigma Callistoleon. 



No cross- veins before radial sector crossed; wings narrow through- 

 out > Myrmeleon. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



CHRYSOPID^. 

 Allochrysa boliviana n. sp. 



Y(41()wish green; palpi unmarked; basal joint of antennae with 

 a red stripe on outer side; pronotum unmarked, longer than broad, 

 narrowed in front; thorax and legs pale; abdomen marked with 

 reddish on the middle of some segments towards tip. Wings hyaline, 

 venation green; stigma not distinct in fore wings; in hind wings is 

 a dark spot; no dark spots on union of cubitus and median near 

 margin of wing; in fore wings the outer gradates are brown, outer 

 ends of costals,' middle of first few radials, origin of radial sector, 

 and one or more cross-veins behind it dark. Wings rather long, 

 fore ones not acute, hind ones plainly acute, in fore wings 9 outer 

 and 14 or 15 inner gradates, reaching far up toward the base (as in 

 A. Colombia); in hind wings 7 outer and 11 inner gradates. Expanse 

 38 mm. 



From Rio Longo, Bolivia, 750 m. (Fassl). 



Alloclirysa nigrilabris n. sp. 



Yellowish green; labrum jet black, a black V-mark between and 

 above the bases of the antennae, basal joint of antennae with a red 

 spot outside; pronotum pale, hardly longer than broad; thorax 

 above with large black spots as in A. Colombia and A. varia and 

 black spots above on some segments of the abdomen toward the 

 tip; legs pale. Wings hyaline, venation green, gradates dark, a 

 dark spot in stigma, and in fore wings one on the union of median 

 and cubitus near margin, many radials at each end, the origin of 

 radial sector, several anals, the lower part of end of second cubital 

 cell, and the upper part of end of third cubital cell dark. In fore 

 wings 7 outer and 10 inner gradates; in hind wings 7 outer and 

 8 inner gradates. Expanse 38 mm. 



From St. Antonio, Colombia, 1,800 m., December (Fassl). 



Allochrysa riveti Navas. 



Described from Ecuador, occurs in Colombia and Panama. 

 Allochrysa titan n. sp. 



Body large and heavy. Pale yellowish or greenish, palpi mostly 

 black, a faint red spot each side at base of clypeus, vertex with a 

 red triangle, red stripe on outer side of basal joint of antennae, joints 

 beyond for about one-third way out blackish on outer side. Pro- 

 notum with two red marks each side, almost making a stripe, rest 

 of thorax, abdomen, legs, and wings unmarked, latter with some 

 black veinlets, some of the radial cross-vein partly black, and some 




624 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



of the gradates near end of the series black; stigma indistinct. 

 Antennae but Uttle longer than wings, pronotum much broader than 

 long, but little narrowed in front; abdomen short, the tip of the 

 last ventral segment roundedly produced in the middle. Wings 

 long, barely acute, costal area not very wide; about 18 radial cross- 

 veins before stigma; radial sector arises nearer base than usual, the 

 second cubital cell is fully as high, as long on upper side, the third 

 oblique, and very obliquely divided, about 13 gradates in each 

 series, wide apart, the inner series curving up and getting near the 

 radial sector, in the fore wings between the two series are two or 

 three gradates of an intermediate series; many of the outer forks 

 fully four or five times as long as wide. Expanse 65 mm. 



From Limon, Costa Rica, 24 May, Schaus. The largest species 

 of the genus. Type in U. S. National Museum. 



Allochrysa torquatus Navas. 



Similar to A. nigriceps, but larger, and the pronotum pale, and 

 longer, and narrowed in front. Head, basal joints of antennae, and 

 thoracic notum black. Wings marked as in A. nigriceps, but the 

 stigmal spot does not extend so far inward, and that at the end of 

 the cubitus is larger and does not extend out along the gradates; 

 in hind wings there is no spot at end of the cubitus. Expanse 

 45 mm. 



From Alajuela, 9 April, Trinidad River, 2 May, Panama (Busck). 

 In U. S. National Museum. Navas has lately described this species 

 from Guatemala under the name "Gonzaga torquatus.'^ There is 

 not the slightest need of a generic name for this section of the genus 

 Allochrysa, which also includes A. nigriceps and A. paUiceps. 



Leucochrysa cinctipes n. sp. 



Rather grayish yellow; last joint of palpi black, faint marks on 

 face, faint line on the outer side of basal joint of antennae; legs 

 with faint dark bands on tips of femora, near base and tip of tibia, 

 and the extreme tip of tarsi black. Wings hyaUne, with gradates 

 gray, many cross-veins brown at ends; stigma whitish, with dark 

 spot at each end, in hind wings there is a faint cloud over the end 

 of cubitus, near the margin, ends of veins on all of margin brown; 

 fore wings with gradates 6 7; in fore wings the radial sector has no 

 connecting cross-vein near its base to the third cubital cell, but 

 there is a cross-vein b(>fore the radial sector to the third cubital 

 cell. Expanse 30 mm. 



From Corazal, Canal Zone, Panama, 11 June (Busck), Type in 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



U. S. National Museum. A very remarkable species on account of 

 venation, and will go in the genus Berchmansus of Navas. 



Leucochrysa apicalis n. sp. 



Pale yellowish, a brown clot under each eye; pal]:)i with dark on 

 penultimate joint; antennae very long, pale, basal joint with a large 

 brown spot above at tip; pronotum much narrower in front, with a 

 dark reddish side line; mesonotum with a dusky spot each side above 

 the fore wings; abdomen and legs pale. Wings with green venation; 

 stigma with dark spot in hind wings, in fore wings indistinct; in 

 hind wings the radial sector is dark for a short distance before stigma, 

 not in the fore wings. In fore wings the gradates, most of the cross- 

 veins in part, origin of the radial sector, divisory veinlet in part, 

 and vein at base of the third cubital cell dark. In hind wings the 

 gradates and some radial cross-veins near stigma dark. Gradates 

 6 and 7 in fore wing, 4 and 5 in hind wing; the inner series as near 

 to radial sector as to outer series. The third cubital cell very much 

 longer than the second; marginal forks two and a half to three 

 times longer than broad. Expanse 28 mm. 



From Rio Pacaya, Peru, August. 



Leucochrysa marginalis n. sp. 



Similar to L. azevedoi Navas, but the gradates all pale, no dark 

 marginal forks, the hind margin of hind wing is dark for most of 

 length, the radial sectors are black for a short distance in both wings 

 and the veinlets above the black portion are also black, the stigma 

 with black basal spot, outer ends of costals, some radial cross-veins, 

 and others in basal part of wing are black, also the origin of the 

 radial sector. Head with a red band under antennae, red stripe on 

 basal joint, and red spot each side on the vertex, basal part of antennae 

 with black line on lower side, pronotum with red band near base, 

 and spots each side, two red spots on front of mesothorax, and two 

 on the scutellum, metathorax marked in the same way, abdomen 

 with red spots on most of the segments above. Venation about as 

 in L. azevedoi, 13-14 gradates, the inner series as near to radial 

 sector as to outer series, and extending basally, the median vein 

 running into the outer series; in hind wings 10-10 gradates. Ex- 

 panse 50 mm. 



From Rio Longo, Bolivia (Fassl). Several of the species placed 

 by Navas in his table of South American Leucochrysa belong to 

 Allochrysa; such are nigriceps, palliceps, and internata. Allochrysa 

 vigoi appears to be the same as A. palliceps. 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



Leucochrysa submacula n- sp. 



Pale yellowish, face with a dark or reddish spot each side under 

 antennae and close to the eyes, second and third joints of the maxil- 

 lary palpi with black spots, antennae pale, basal joint with a dark 

 streak on the outer side, vertex rather reddish in front part of the 

 elevation; pronotum narrowed in front, and with a reddish spot 

 near each anterior corner, thorax with a dark spot over base of the 

 wings; abdomen pale, with dark spot near base and another beyond 

 the middle. Wings hyaline, stigma short, black, many cross-veins 

 black at ends, gradates (5-6 fore wings, 4-4 hind wings) black, eight 

 radial cross-veins before stigma, inner gradates nearer to radial 

 sector than to outer series. Expanse 27 mm. 



From Bartica, British Guiana (Parish). 



Leucochrysa callota n. sp. 



Pale yellowish; a dark spot each side at base of the clypeus near 

 the eyes, two dark dots on front of vertex above the antennae, basal 

 joint of antennae with dark dot near tip; pronotum with a red-brown 

 spot each side near middle of the side margin; thorax with a large 

 spot each side above base of Avings, second segment of abdomen and 

 some other segments marked with dark. Wings hyaline; veins 

 pale, many cross-veins dark at ends, gradates dark, stigma dark in 

 both wings. Pronotum hardly longer than broad, narrowed in 

 front, 14 radial cross-veins, 7 inner, 8 outer gradates in fore wings, 

 outer series as near inner as to margin, outer forks fully four times 

 as long as broad; hind wings with six gradates in each series. Ex- 

 panse 33 mm. 



From Austin, Texas (McClendon). 



Chrysopa chacranella n. sp. 



Similar to C. nosina Navas. Black mark on cheek, reddish 

 divergent mark on vertex, and sides of thorax with two blackish 

 stripes, but here they are practically connected and not widely 

 separated as in C. nosina. The antennae are wholly pale, no mark 

 on basal joint, there are no spots on the face under antennae, and the 

 venation is not black at juncture of veins, the entire venation being 

 pale. Gradates 6-6 in both wings, the outer series as near to margin 

 as to inner series. Expanse 26 mm. 



From Chacra di Coria, Argentine, 26 February ( Jensen-Haarup) . 



Chrysopa figuralis n. sp. 



Green; face with a rather broad red streak across it, palpi and 

 antennae pale, basal joint of latter more yellowish, vertex with two 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



broad red stripes near middle, narrowed in front and united just 

 above antennae, a red line each side near eyes; pronotum a little 

 broader than long, with a very broad reddish stripe, containing a 

 darker red median line, the red extending back on the anterior lobe 

 of mesothorax. Venation green, costals, gradates, radials, and 

 divisory all l^lack, other veins and branches dark in part; in hind 

 wing the gradates and costals, and endings of veins on radial sector 

 black; 18 costals, 3-6 gradates in each wing, inner series much 

 nearer outer than to radial sector; marginal forks hardly twice as 

 long as broad; divisory ends beyond the cross-vein, the third cubital 

 -cell barely broader at tip. Expanse 29 mm. 



From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 10 June (Parish). 



Chrysopa incalis n- sp. 



Deep green; palpi and antennae pale, unmarked, no marks on 

 head or rest of body except that the pronotum has a faint yellowish 

 stripe on each side a little distance from margin. Pronotum about 

 ^s broad as long. Venation green, gradates, costals, except at 

 costal end, radials on middle and a few other veins near base in part 

 black; in hind wings some costals and the gradates scarcely dark. 

 Wings rather broad, hind pair acute at tips, 21 costals, 5-7 gradates 

 in fore wing, 3-7 in hind wing, the series parallel, inner series twice 

 as near outer as to the radial sector, divisory ends beyond cross-vein, 

 marginal forks about three times as long as broad. Expanse 30 mm. 



From Matucana, Peru, 7,780 feet, 14 June, and Chosica, Peru, 

 2,800 feet, 10 June, both from Mr. Parish. 



•Chrysopa asoralis n. sp. 



Green, a pale yellow median stripe on thorax and abdomen, face 

 with red stripe each side on cheeks, sometimes a red dot on vertex 

 each side near eyes, otherwise unmarked, palpi and antennae pale. 

 Pronotum much broader than long. Wings with green venation, 

 ■gradates and origin of racUal sector dark, costals, radials and a few 

 other veins dark at ends; in hind wings gradates, ends of costals, 

 and some radials dark; 22 costals, 6-8 gradates in fore wing 5-7 

 in hind wing, the series parallel, inner one-half way from radial 

 sector to outer series, many marginals two or more times longer than 

 broad, the divisory ends at or just before the cross-vein. Expanse 

 28 mm. 



From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 7 June, Matucana, Peru, 7,780 

 feet, 14 June, and La Cumbre, Colombia, 6,600 feet, May, all taken 

 by Mr. Parish. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.,. 



It is related to Ch. losva Navas, which I have from Monte del Eden, 

 Ibaque, Colombia, 9,000 feet (Fassl), but the inner gradates do not 

 extend basally. 

 Chrysopa hesperina n. sp. 



Pale greenish; thorax with a pale median stripe; head with red 

 stripe on cheeks, an oblique spot under each antenna, and vertex 

 with a line each side near eyes, red; last joint of palpi black; antennae 

 pale, unmarked, rest of body also unmarked. Pronotum about as 

 broad as long. Wings scarcely acute at tips, with green venation; 

 costals, radials, cubital and median cross-veins wholly dark, as also 

 the gradates, branches of radial sector, and forkings of marginals 

 dark in part, origin of radial sector, and tip of divisory vein dark; 

 14 costals, third cubital cell not very long, divisory ends beyond 

 cross-vein, gradates 5-6, inner series scarcely nearer to outer than 

 to radial sector, marginal forks not twice as long as broad. In 

 hind wings costals and gradates black, and also the ends of veins 

 ending in middle portion of radial sector black; gradates 4-6. Ex- 

 panse 22 mm. 



From Caldras, Colombia, May, 4,400 feet (Parish), and Call, 

 Colombia, May, 500 feet (Parish). 



Chrysopa breviata n- sp. 



Pale greenish or yellowish, head unmarked, palpi marked with 

 black, antennae pale, more yellowish on base; pronotum about twice 

 as broad as long, a large red spot on each anterior side; rest of body 

 and the legs pale, unmarked. Wings with green venation, costals, 

 radials, gradates, some other cross-veins, bases of radial branches, 

 origin of radial sector, part of divisorius, and marginal forks black. 

 In hind wings a few costals and the gradates black. Wings short, 

 almost rounded at tip, about 16 costals, third cubital cell one-half 

 as wide at base as at tip, divisory ending a little beyond cross-vein; 

 in fore wing 3 to 5 outer, and 2 or 3 inner gradates; in hind wing 

 4 to 6 outer, and 1 or 2 inner gradates; the inner nearly twice as 

 close to outer as to the racUal sector; marginal forks not twice as 

 long as broad. Expanse 18 to 20 mm. 



From Guayaquil (Parish) and Quevedo, Ecuador. 



Chrysopa azygota n. sp. 



Pale yellowish or greenish, a Ijlackish stripe on each cheek, a dot 

 on middle of face, and second and third joints of antennse blackish, 

 a dark stripe on outer side of basal joint, and tips of palpi dark; 

 rest of body and legs pale, unmarked. Wings with pale venation, 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



much marked by brown, at ends of costals, radials, and other cross- 

 veins, origin and branches of radial sector in part dark; gradates, 

 lower base of third cubital and several basal cross-veins wholly 

 dark; hind A\angs with gradates wholly and some costal and radial 

 cross-veins partly dark, stigma not distinct. Wings narrow, acute 

 at tips, gradates subparallel, nearer to each other than to outer 

 margin or radial sector; 5 to 7 in fore wing, 2 to 4 in hind wings, 

 each much farther than its length from the next; 15 costals in fore 

 wing; divisory ends beyond cross-vein, third cubital cell twice as 

 wide at tip as at base, the marginal forks little more than twice as 

 long as wide. Pronotum plainly broader than long. Expanse 

 21 mm. 



From Mt. Makiling, Philippines (Baker). 



Chrysopa ilota n. sp. 



Pale yellowish or greenish; a dark stripe on each cheek; palpi 

 lightly marked ^vith dark, no other marks except sides of pronotum 

 rather darker; pronotum a little longer than broad and narrowed 

 in front. Wings moderately broad, acute at tips; venation pale, 

 gradates and some basal cross-veins wholly dark, costals dark at 

 lower end, radials at upper end, a few other cross- veins partly dark; 

 in hind \vings gradates, costals, and radials marked with dark. 

 Gradates subparallel, inner series as near radial sector as to outer 

 series, latter nearer to margin than to inner series, 5 to 7 gradates 

 in fore wing, 3 to 5 in hind wings, each more than their length apart, 

 20 costals in the fore wings before the stigma, latter long, faintly 

 dark; marginal forks scarcely twice as long as broad; divisory ends 

 much before cross-vein, third cubital about one-half as wide at base 

 as at tip. Expanse 25 mm. 



From Mt. Makiling, Philippines (Baker). 



Chrysopa morota n. sp. 



Pale yellowish or greenish, unmarked; palpi and antennae 

 unmarked, margins of pronotum more greenish; wings long, acute 

 at tips, venation green throughout, unmarked, the stigma long, 

 brownish; gradates subparallel, but inner series is nearer to the 

 radial sector than to outer, and latter nearer to margin than to inner 

 series; 6 to 7 gradates in fore wings; 4 to 7 in the hind wings, each 

 hardly a length apart; 17 costals before stigma in fore wing; the 

 divisory ends just before the cross-vein, the third cubital cell at base 

 not one-half as wide as at tip; marginal forks little more than twice 

 as long as broad ; pronotum a little broader than long, much narro wed- 

 in front. Expanse 23 mm. 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



From Mt. Makiling, Philippines (Baker). 



The species of Chrysopa now knoAvn from the Philippine Islands 

 can be tabulated as below: 



Philippine Chrysop.e. 



1. Wings with some dark clouds .faceta Navas. 



Wings not clouded 2. 



2. Second joint of the antennae dark, a dark median spot on face 



below antennae azygota. 



Second joint of antennae pale 3. 



3. Venation partly dark, gradates dark ilota. 



Venation pale, gradates pale 4. 



4. Gradates divergent; inner series at upper end very close to the 



radial sector tagalica. 



Gradates subparallel 5. 



5. Inner gradates few (3 or 4), each much mora than its length from 



the next one; divisory veinlet ends beyond the cross-vein, 



isolata. 



Inner gradates (6 or 7) scarcely their length apart; divisory 



veinlet ends before the cross-vein morota. 



HEMEROBIID^. 

 Sympherobius intervenalis n. sp. 



Yellowish, head without definite spots except one each side on 

 vertex near the eyes; antennae pale, with three or four dark segments 

 about one-third way out; palpi brown. Pronotum brown, thorax 

 with lobes at base of wings dark; abdomen brownish; legs pale. 

 Wings yellowish hyaline, with pale venation; the forkings of veins, 

 costals at base, and some anal veins dark brown, the four gradates 

 dark and bordered with dark brown, the two posterior disjointed 

 from the two anterior by more than their length; a large dark brown 

 spot in the subcostal area between subcosta and radius near base 

 of Avings; behind it the cubital cross-vein is heavily dark, and the 

 median and radial cross-veins near base are also dark. The costal 

 area is quite broad, about four times as broad as the subcostal area. 

 In the hind wings the stigma at tip and some of the outer forkings 

 are dark; the entire margin of both wings with dots between veins. 

 Expanse 11 mm. 



From Call, Colombia, 500 feet (Parish). 



Sympherobius modestus var. connexus n. var. 



This is similar to the typical form, with the same markings more 

 heavily developed; the four dark spots across the face are connected 

 into a streak each side; the spots on upper and lower clypeus are 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



connected; the front tibiae are plainly banded near base and at tip* 

 the head and thorax with pale median stripe ; the wings very heavily 

 marked with dark on plan of S. modestus, but the wings are about 

 one-fourth longer than in that species, making the cells more elon- 

 gate; the four outer gradates in pairs. Expanse 14 mm. 



From Chosica, Peru, 2,800 feet, 9 June (Parish). I have received 

 5. modestus from Matucana, Peru (Parish Coll.). 



TRIOHOPTERA. 



CEcetina parish! n. sp. 



Yellowish, with yellow and gray hair; palpi densely gray-haired; 

 antennae with tips of joints plainly blackish. Wings yellowish gray, 

 darker at tip, black along the outer margin, but here interrupted 

 three times with pale, a tuft of black hair on anal margin toward 

 base, surface with about ten black spots or marks; two near base, 

 one above the tuft on anal margin, one on fork of radial sector, two 

 or three at anastomosis, one beyond, one at end of radius, one at end 

 of subcosta and one near arculus. Hind wings with gray fringe, 

 much longer than width of the wings. In fore wings the discal cell 

 is nearly as long as its pedicel, strongly convex above, fork 1 twice 

 as long as its pedicel ; both wings acute at tips. Expanse 12 mm. 



From Mallali and Bartica, British Guiana (Parish). 

 Macronema fragilis n. sp. 



Face yellowish, with whitish hair; antennae pale, faintly marked 

 at tips of the joints; vertex brown; thoracic notum brown, abdomen 

 pale on base, dark at tip; legs pale yellowish, hind tarsi darker; 

 fore wings a nearly uniform brown, veins darker, an elongate pale 

 spot over stigiiial area, broader on basal part, reaching to discal cell, 

 apical part usually containing a dark spot, beyond this and half 

 way to tip is a yellowish white spot extending from costa to fork 2, 

 in base of second apical cell, just beyond discal cell, is a pale spot; 

 hind wings gray, fringe black. In structure extremely similar ta 

 M. parvum, and venation practically the same. Expanse 14 mm. 



From Bartica, British Guiana, December (Parish). 



Macronema picteli n. sp. PI. XXVIII, fig. 9. 



Similar to M. lineatum and M. argentilineatum, and probably the 

 species referred to by Ulmer (Selys, Trich. pt. 2, p. 69) under M. 

 argentilineatum from British Guiana in Leyden Museum. It differs 

 from M. lineatum in small eyes, and longer, more pointed wings,, 

 and the apical marks are a little different. It differs from M. argen- 

 tilineatum, in having fork 1 to hind wings, and in the position of the 




>632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



<5ostal cross-vein in fore wings, and the apical marks of fore wings. 

 The wings are long, dark brown; there is a transverse band of white 

 in stigmal region, a crescentic white mark over tip of wing, and pale 

 ;spots on outer margin in the cells. Between the apical and stigmal 

 marks is a large patch of golden hair, which when rubbed shows 

 hyaline streaks in the bases of several apical cells. Expanse 26 mm. 



From Mallali, British Guiana, March (Parish). 

 Phylloicus brevior n. sp. PI. XXVIII, figs. 2, 4. 



Body yellowish, with yellow hairs; anterior part of the thorax 

 blackish, and tip of abdomen dark; antennae black-haired, and 

 sometimes a black spot over base of each antenna; a row of black 

 Jiairs each side of face under the antennse; legs pale, most of fore 

 and mid tarsi, all of hind tarsi and part of tibia black, three spurs 

 on hind tibia, four on mid tibia. Wings nearly evenly dark reddish 

 brown, darker on costal area and on apex; hind wings also dark, 

 more blackish. Fore wings with venation much like that of P. 

 ■abdominalis — that is, the first fork extends one-half way back on 

 ■discal cell ; in the hind wings, however, the apical forks are longer, 

 and there is no closed median cell; the male genitalia are exposed. 

 Expanse 19 mm. 



From Bartica, British Guiana, December (Parish). 



F 

 F: 



F: 



F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 



r 



F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 



Explanation of Plate XXVIII. 



g. 1. — Neoperla holivari, ventral plate. 



g. 2. — Phylloicus brevior, genitalia of male. 



g. 3. — Isoperla lexana, ventral plate. 



g. 4. — Phylloicus brevior, tip of hind wing. 



g. 5. — Perln xcnocia, side and dorsal view cf genitaliia. 



g. 6. — Acraioleon flavum, tarsus I. 



g. 7. — Callibcetis semicostata, clasper. 



g. 8. — Lepiophlebia assimilis, clasper and last dorsal segment. 



g. 9. — Macronema picleli, tip of fore wing. 



g. 10. — Neoperla pkdonis, ventral plate. 



g. 11. — Ephemerella vernalis, clasper. 



g. 12. — Perla xenocia, ventral plate. 



g. 13. — Hexagenia callineura, part of wing. 



g. 14. — Habrophlebia joco.sa, clasper. 



g. 15. — Ccecilius posticus, fore wing. 



g. 16. — Perln georgiana, ventral plate. 



g. 17. — Perlodcs dossotice, ventral plate. 



g. 18. — Psocus stigmosalis, fore wing. 



g. 19. — Perlodes tibialis, ventral plate. 



g. 20. — Pericli/dus, anal ar(>a fore wing. 



g. 21. — Indoleoii, anal area fore wing. 



g. 22. — (Jleitoleoii, anal area fore wing. 



g. 23.—Distoleon, anal area fore wing. 



g. 24. — Mtjrmclcon, anal area fore wing. 



g. 25. — Paraxjlcnurus, tarsus I. 



g. 26. — Perlodes signala Hagen, venter. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



December 15. 

 The President, Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, in the Chair. 



• Twenty-nine persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the receipt of a paper entitled 

 "Miocene fossil insects," by T. D. A. Cockerell (November 30). 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Horace 

 Magee, January 10, 1912; George L. Knowles, October 27, 1914; 

 William Redwood Wright, December 3, 1914. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



MIOCENE FOSSIL INSECTS. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



The miocene insect beds at Florissant, Colorado, continue to 

 furnish numerous undescribed species, and the time is still distant 

 when it will be appropriate to bring all the data together in a single 

 monograph. - To illustrate the wonderful richness of the Florissant 

 shales, it is sufficient to mention Professor H. F. Wickham's collection 

 made in 1912 at the Wilson Ranch. In an excavation about 20 feet 

 long and 6 feet deep he obtained over 90 species of Coleoptera, of 

 which at least 40 were new. In addition to this. Professor Wickham, 

 my wife, and I secured various species of other groups in this same 

 excavation, so that probably there will be in all not less than 60 new 

 species. This particular spot had been looked over several times in 

 previous years by University of Colorado expeditions, but had 

 yielded nothing of particular value, because only the surface was 

 examined. On digging into the hill, the remarkable collection just 

 mentioned was secured. There can be no doubt that the Florissant 

 shales are practically inexhaustible; but it is unfortunately true that 

 many good fossils, some doubtless of species which will never be 

 found again, have been collected and lost or placed where they are 

 unlikely to fall into the hands of competent students. Even in the 

 larger museums there are still many undescribed Florissant species, 

 and it will be some years before we have a complete account of the 

 materials already gathered and in safe custody. 



In Europe, the locality which we naturally compare with Florissant 

 is ffiningen in Baden. The beds, which I have examined so far as 

 their present condition permits, are not, strictly speaking, at CEningen, 

 but above the village of Wangen, on the Rhine. They are doubtless 

 extensive, and would yield much of value if reexcavated, but they 

 have been neglected for many years. Various European museums 

 contain CEningen insects, but by far the richest collection is that of 

 Heer at Zurich. Heer estimated that he knew 844 species of fossil 

 insects from ffiningen, but only 464 ever received published scientific 

 names. Of these no less than 250 were Coleoptera, but Professor 

 Wickham records 494 described beetles from Florissant. Eighty 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



Hemiptera are from CEningcn, hut Florissant has about 230. The 

 Hymcnoptera from (Eningen numl)er 60, but those of Florissant 

 are about 220, with only one of the many ants as. yet published. 

 Thirty Diptera come from ffiningen, over 100 from Florissant. 

 (Eningen has only one recorded Trichopteron, Florissant 29. The 

 ffiningen list could be considerably increased if we added a number 

 of species cited by their generic names or even less exactly, but not 

 described or given specific names. Experience shows that such 

 records are too unreliable to be of much value, ffiningen has more 

 species than Florissant in each of the following groups, as the lists 

 stand at present. (0. = QCningen; F. = Florissant.) 



Odonata^ — Libellulidse : O. 9, F. none. However, the (Eningen 

 species are simply a lot of nymphs; one, L. perse, is doubtfully from 

 (Eningen. Specimens of L. eurynome and L. doris are in the Univer- 

 sity of Colorado Museum. 



Thysanoptera — Thripidae: 0. 2, F. none. 



Orthoptera — Gryllotalpini3e : O. 1, F. none. The (Eningen species 

 is stated to be long and narrow, but we have no other details. 



Coleoptera — Carabidse: O. 35, F. 33. Dytiscidae: O. 9, F. 8. 

 Gyrinidse: 0. 2, F. none. Scaphidiidse: 0. 2, F. none. Histeridae: 

 O. 9, F. none. Elateridse: O. 10, F. 4 (but many more Florissant 

 species await description) . Buprestidse: 0. 31, F. 15. Hydrophilidae: 

 O. 17, F. 8. Trogositidae: O. 7, F. 1. Coccinellida : 0. 7, F. 3. 

 Scarabseidffi : 0. 34, F. 28. Florissant especially outranks (Eningen 

 in CurcuUonidffi (0. 24, F. 95) and Staphylinidse (0. 7, F. 45). The 

 most striking feature is the absence of Histerldai at Florissant. It 

 is curious that the lists contain no Cicindelidse. 



Hymenoptera — Cephidse: O. 2, F. 1. Sphecidse: 0. 4, F. 2. 

 (Eningen has 34 described species of ants, Florissant only one, but 

 very numerous ants from the latter place await description by 

 Dr. Wheeler. 



Lepidoptera — Psychidae: O. 1 (a case), F. none. 



Diptera — Bibionidse: O. 14, F. 4. Chinonomidse: O. 3, F. none 

 good enough to describe. Tachinidse: O. 1, F. none. 



Hemiptera — Reduviidse: O. 11, F. 3. Naucoridse: 0. 2, F. none. 

 Belostomatidse: O. 2, F. 1. Nepidse: 0. 1, F. none. 



This enumeration is of interest mainly as a statement of the present 

 condition of our knowledge, but some of the features indicated 

 probably will be confirmed or amplified by fuller data. 



The new species described below have, with few exceptions, been 

 collected by Professor Wickham. 

 42 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ORTHOPTERA. 



Amblycorypha (?) perdita n- sp. (Locustidse). 



Tegmen 30.5 mm. long, 12 mm. broad, the broadest part about 

 11 mm. from the very broadly rounded and obtuse apex; costal 

 region not enlarged, the subcostal nervure about equally distant 



from costa and stem of 

 radius until 5 or 6 mm. 

 from base, where it is nearer 

 costa than radius, and so 

 continues; radius straight, 

 the radial sector coming off 

 at a rather wide angle near 

 Amblycorypha (?) perdita. the middle of the tegmen; 



apical field irregularly retic- 

 ulated throughout. The lower margin of the tegmen can be dis- 

 tinctly followed to near the base, and there appears to be no anal 

 lobe, but it seems exceedingly probable that this is illusory, the 

 apparent margin near the base being the sharp line of demarcation 

 found in the modern species, limiting the anal area above. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). I have 

 wondered whether this could be Scudder's Orchelimum placidum, 

 but it is certainly not an Orchelimum, and beyond a general similarity, 

 there is nothing definite to indicate its identity with Scudder's species. 

 It is provisionally placed in Amblycorypha, to which it is presumably 

 allied, and from which, without better preserved materials, it does 

 not seem worth while to separate it. Mr. J. A. G. Rehn kindly 

 examined my sketch of the venation, and reported that it was not 

 quite like any modern genus; as he observed, if the anal area is truly 

 absent, the tegmen is quite peculiar; but if it is present, the insect 

 is not very remarkable. Except for the shape of the tegmen, there 

 is a rather close resemblance in structure to Pycnophlebia speciosa 

 (Germar) from the lithographic stone of Solenhofen. 



HEMIPTERA. 



PSYLLITES n. gen. (Psyllida;). 



The distinctive characters are in the venation, as follows: 



(1) The radius leaves the radial sector a little before the middle 

 of the wing, and passes obliquely to the costa, where it ends, as in 

 Psylla astigmata. 



(2) The stem of the radius is in a straight line with the radial 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



637 



sector, which is nearly straight, with only a slight curvature, prac- 

 tically as in Psylla caudata. 



(3) The mediocubital fork is some distance basad of the separation 

 of the radius from its sector, as in Psylla. 



(4) The separation of the radius from the radial sector is at prac- 

 tically the same level as the separation of the branches of the cubitus, 

 the cell between the cubital branches being long, the arrangement 

 herein practically as in Pachypsylla venusta. The cell in the forks 

 of the media is, however, as in Psylla. 



Except for the shape of the cell in the forks of the cubitus, the 

 insect could go in Psylla; herein it is less specialized than Psylla. 

 The outline of the wing, as figured, is only approximate. 



Psyllites crawfordi n. sp. 



Leng-th about 2 mm., anterior ^ving less than 1.5 mm.; wdngs clear, 

 ■without markings. The following measurements are in microns: 

 length of upper wing, about 

 1,440; radial fork to base of 

 wing, about 690 ; radial fork to 

 end of radial sector, about 

 752; medio-cubital fork to 

 branching of cubitus, 224; 

 medio-cubital fork to branch- 

 ing of media, 624 ; cell between Psyllites crawfordi, wing, 

 cubital branches on wing-mar- 

 gin, 320; fork of media to level of radial and cubital forks, about 416; 

 fork of media to nearest point on anterior branch of cubitus, 208. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). On the 

 same piece of shale as the type of Heteromyiella miocenica and very 

 close to it. Dedicated to Mr. David L. Crawford, whose monograph 

 of the Psyllidse of the New World has been of great use in the study 

 of the fossil species. 



HYMENOPTERA. 



PAL^OTELEIA n. gen. (ScelionidiB). 



Elongate, with the same form as Chromoteleia semicyanea Ashmead, 

 except that the abdomen is broader, fully twice as broad at base, 

 broadest about the end of the second segment, and with the apical 

 1 mm. or more conspicuously narrower than the part before. An- 

 tennae inserted very close to the middle (vertical) line of face, perhaps 

 on a frontal prominence; scape apparently short; flagellum rather 

 long and of uniform width, not at all moniliform. Head broad. 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



eyes prominent. Thorax long and narrow, the parts indistinct, but 

 there is a cordiform metathoracie area or depression, and just in front 

 of this a transverse series of little ridges or pleats, presumably on the 

 postscutellum (compare Macroteleia) . Hind femora unusually stout. 

 Wings with a very well developed submarginal vein, but no marginal 

 at all; stigmal vein short but distinct, ending in a round knob; 

 postmarginal vein long; a shadowy oblique vein going from the 

 postmarginal toward the stigmal knob, as in Chromoteleia. 



Palseoteleia oxyura n. sp. 



Length nearly 7 mm.; anterior wing nearly 4 mm., the stigmatal 

 knob 2.25 from base. Elongate, narrow, black, antennae and legs 

 ferruginous; thorax narrow, about .75 mm. in length anterior to 

 wings; abdomen narrow and tapering, sessile, rather broad at base, 

 its length a little over 4.5 mm., its width a very little over 1 mm.; 

 thorax same width as abdomen. Wings ample, clear, faintly reddish, 

 with a small ferruginous cloud in stigmatal region. 



The following measurements are in microns: length of post- 

 marginal vein, about 640; length of stigmal vein, including knob, 

 256, without knob, 192; diameter of flagellum, 128; width of hind 

 femur, 352; length of hind tibia, about 1,120. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham). 



This is fully as specialized as the modern genera. 



Polistes kirbyanus u. sp. 



Osmia kirhyana Heer MS. 

 Stout bodied, with rather short abdomen, the basal two segments 

 of which are pallid and the other parts dark brown. Wings ample, 

 dusky. Length of body 13 mm., of wings about 11 mm.; first 

 discoidal cell almost 5.5 mm. long. Most of the venation of the 

 anterior wings can be made out, showing that it is nearly normal for 

 Polistes, except that the first t.c, instead of being straight, has a 

 double curve like the second. The third s.m. is much broader above 

 than the second. As in Polistes, the b.n. goes basad of t.m.; the 

 second s.m. receives both recurrent nervures (the cell is very broad, 

 broader than in modern Polistes); the first discoidal cell is very 

 oblique at end; the marginal cell has an elongated triangular form. 

 The great width of the second s.m. and the long very oblique apical 

 end of the first discoidal agree better with Monobia (M. quadridens L., 

 Rito de los Friioles, New Mexico, W. W. Rohhins; det. Rohwer) 

 than with Polistes. On the other hand, the third s.m. agrees with 

 Polistes, not with Monobia. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



Miocene of Wangen, Baden; described from Heer's type specimen 

 in the University Museum at Zurich. Heer named a PoUstes primi- 

 tiva from CEningcn (Wangen), but as no description appeared, it 

 cannot be recognized. 



It may be useful to add that Heer's Vespa atavina from Moudon 

 is not the same species as his much earlier Vespa attavina from 

 Parschlug; Handlirsch treats them as identical, spelling the name 

 atavina. 



Odynerus percontusus n- sp. 



Leng-th about 8 mm.; black, including legs; wings hyaline, the 

 nervures pallid, darker basally; length of anterior wing about 5 mm., 

 reaching at least to end of third abdominal segment; head and thorax 

 strongly but irregularly punctured; abdomen very broad at base, 

 second segment large, about 1.65 mm. long and 2.40 broad; apex of 

 stigma broad and obtuse, only moderately oblique; end of marginal 

 cell squarely (not obliquely) truncate; second s.m. not narrowed to 

 a point above. 



The following measurements are in microns : basal nervure on first 

 discoidal, 1,472; first submarginal (s.m.) on first discoidal, 928; 

 first s.m. on marginal, 528; second s.m. on marginal, 128; third s.m. 

 on marginal, 368; width of truncate end of marginal, about 128; 

 second s.m. on first cUscoidal, 192; distance between ends of recurrent 

 nervures on second s.m., 272; end of second r.n. to lower end of 

 second t.c, 80; lower side of third s.m., 448, 



The general structure is essentially as in the living 0. tuberculo- 

 cephahis Sauss. (Boulder, Colo., W. P. Cockerell; det. Rohwer); 

 but the abdomen is more as in 0. capra Sauss. (Colorado Springs, 

 Colo., T. and W. Cockerell, at flowers of Rihes aureum; det. Rohwer). 

 The measurements readily distinguish this from the other species 

 fossil at Florissant. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). 



Odynerus wilmattae n. sp. (Eumenidae). 



Black, apparently with light bands on abdomen; length of head 

 and thorax 3 mm., of abdomen about 4.5 mm. in bent position, but 

 would be about 6.5 straightened out, of anterior wings 4.5 mm.; 

 first abdominal segment rather small, in lateral profile only about 

 1 mm. deep, whereas the abdomen in middle is fully 2 mm.; wings 

 dusky reddish, venation ordinary, marginal cell very narrowly 

 obliquely truncate at end; third t.c. arched inward; second s.m. 

 greatly narrowed above, receiving first r.n. a little before middle 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and second very near end (very much nearer end than in the living 

 0. tuherculiceps, 0. capra and 0. parietum); second r.n. at right angles 

 to lower side of third s.m. 



The following measurements are in microns: second s.m. on mar- 

 ginal cell, 64; third s.m. on marginal, 256; lower side of marginal 

 beyond third s.m., 384; lower side of third s.m., 384; end of first 

 r.n. to end of second, 176. 



Station 14, Miocene shales of Florissant {Wilmatte P. Cockerell). 

 Very easily known from other fossil (as well as living) species by the 

 remarkably short wings. It has also been examined by Mr. S. A. 

 Rohwer, who cannot find any reason for regarding it as a distinct 

 genus, notwithstanding its peculiar appearance. The anterior wings 

 reach only a little beyond end of second abdominal segment. The 

 wings, as preserved, are not longitudinally folded. 



Palseovespa wilsoni n. sp. (Vespidse). 



9 . Length about 15 mm., anterior wing about or hardly 9 mm., 

 first discoidal cell 4 mm.; robust, head and thorax black, abdomen 

 paler, probably yellow in life, as also the legs; wings clear, veins 

 nearly colorless (costo-apical region lost) ; first discoidal cell slightly 

 oblique at end; second recurrent nervure ending more than twice 

 as far from first as from end of second s.m. 



The following measurements are in microns: basal nervure on 

 first discoidal cell, 2,550; first discoidal on first submarginal cell, 

 1,760; first discoidal on second submarginal, 144; third discoidal on 

 second submarginal, 480; lower side of second s.m. beyond third 

 discoidal; 192; lower side of third discoidal 1,840; lower side of third 

 submarginal, 640; third discoidal on second discoidal, 512; outer 

 side of second discoidal below third discoidal, 288. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham). 

 Named after the owner of the ranch where the fossils were collected, 

 who did everything in his power to aid the work. Nearest to P. 

 gillettei Ckll., but differing in the venation too much to be regarded 

 as a variation. 



^ndrena percontusa n. sp. (Andrenidae). 



9 . Length 12 mm., anterior wing about 8 mm.; head and thorax 

 black, abdomen pale; antennae ferruginous; wings clear, venation 

 ferruginous; basal nervure falling short of the very oblique trans- 

 versomedial; stigma large; first r.n. joining second s.m. near end. 



The following measurements are in microns : depth of stigma, 320 ; 

 first s.m. on basal nervure, 368; lower side of first s.m., 1,040; second 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



s.m. on first discoidal cell, 480; second s.m. on third discoidal, 64; 

 lower side of third s.m., about 800; distance between lower end of 

 b.n. and upper end of t.m., 64. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham). 

 Apparently a quite typical Andrena. It is easily known from A. 

 grandipes Ckll. and A. hypoUtha Ckll. by the venation. The venation 

 is like that of A. sepidta Ckll. and A. clavula Ckll., but these are much 

 smaller species, and clavida is also separated by the form of the 

 abdomen. 



Cladius petrinus u- sp. (Tenthredinidse). 



9. Length 7.5 mm., robust; antennae 3.65 mm. long, simple, 

 rather slender; width of head 1.85 mm.; head and posterior half of 

 thorax apparently black, rest of thorax and abdomen probably 

 reddish in life; wings clear, with very pale nervures; 4.25 mm. from 

 base of wing to middle of stigma. The end of the best wing is lost, 

 so that it is impossible to determine from it whether the marginal cell 

 has a cross-vein. The other wing is over the body and it is hard to 

 see the details, but the marginal nervure is sufficiently plain, and I 

 am confident that there is no cross-nervure. This accords with 

 Cladius, with which the rest of the wing closely agrees. The insect 

 runs in Rohwer's table {Bidl. Amer. Mus. N. Hist., XXIV, p. 521) to 

 20, and runs out on account of the character of the lanceolate cell. 

 If it had a marginal cross-nervure, it would run to Hemichroa eophila 

 Ckll., which is larger and otherwise dilTerent. There is no particular 

 resemblance to any more recently described species. Compared with 

 MacGillivray's figure of Cladius pectinicornis, the anterior wing 

 differs as follows: first s.m. longer; second t.c. bowed inward; t.m. 

 much beyond middle of second part of lanceolate cell ; end of second 

 r.n. only a very short distance beyond second t.c. It agrees in the 

 sides of the first discoidal cell being not at all parallel, the long and 

 narrow second discoidal, the very short upper side of first discoidal, 

 etc. The separation of the two parts of the lanceolate cell by a single 

 (coalesced) nervure is very short indeed, only 128 microns. 



The following measurements are in microns: length of first sub- 

 marginal cell (s.m.), 240; second s.m. on marginal, 928; first discoidal 

 on first s.m., 288 (the thickness of the nervures explains the difference 

 from the inside measurement of first s.m.); second s.m. on first 

 discoidal, 432; second s.m. on third discoidal (not allowing for the 

 strong curve), 1,040; third s.m. on third discoidal, 96; third s.m. 

 from second r.n. to end (apparently, from the obscurely preserved 

 wing), 656; first discoidal on basal nervure, 1,200; lower end of basal 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



nervurs to upper end of the very oblique t.m., 640; first discoidal on 

 second discoidal, 704; first discoidal on third discoidal, 368; length 

 of t.m., 480; submedian cell on second part (beyond the interruption) 

 of lanceolate cell, 1,280; second discoidal on lanceolate (anal) cell, 

 768; lower side of second discoidal beyond lanceolate cell, 400. 

 Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). 



Eriocampa Celata n. sp. (Tenthredinidae). 



Length 8 mm., abdomen 4, anterior wing 6 mm.; ferruginous, with 

 the head, posterior half of thorax and apex of abdomen apparently 

 black; legs ferruginous; anterior wings reddish hyaline, nervures 

 pallid; antennae ordinary, not clavate, width at about 1,600 microns 

 from base 208 microns; insect, as preserved, so like Cladius petrinus 

 that I assumed it to be the same until I examined the venation. The 

 venation appears to agree well with Eriocampa. In Rohwer's table 

 the insect does not agree with Eriocampa because the first r.n. is not 

 parallel with the b.n., the upper end of the r.n. being about 208 

 microns too far apicad; but nearly the same thing is true of E. ovata, 

 as figured by MacGillivray {Nortonella has the same feature, but is 

 otherwise quite different). Characteristic features of E. celata are 

 the oblique, gently arched cross-vein of marginal cell, which joins 

 the stigma 208 microns below the costa; the produced lower apical 

 corner of first s.m. ; the two sides of first discoidal cell (on basal and 

 recurrent nervures) nearly equal; the second s.m. receiving only 

 one r.n.; the very narrow (112 microns) top of first discoidal cell. 

 The lanceolate cell is contracted, but not closed; the cross-nervure, 

 which ought to be present, is obliterated, but I think I can see the 

 stump of the upper end (this, however, is not positive). 



The following measurements are in microns: first s.m. on marginal, 

 288 ; second s.m. on marginal (not allowing for curve) , 800 ; end of second 

 t.c. to lower end of marginal cross-vein, 608; lower end of marginal 

 cross-vein to upper end of third t.c, 368; first s.m. diagonally, 448; 

 first discoidal on first s.m., 480; first discoidal on second s.m., 416; 

 basal on first discoidal, 832; first discoidal on third, 800; lower end 

 of b.n. to upper end of t.m., 288 on one side, but 208 on opposite wing; 

 upper end of t.m. to lower end of first r.n., 512. Known from the 

 Florissant species of Eriocampa by the colors and the venation — • 

 e.g., from E. synthetica, pristina and wheeler i by the measurements 

 of the first discoidal cell ; from scudderi and bruesi by the compara- 

 tive measurements of the first two submarginals. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



DIPTERA. 



Protolomatia antiqua Cockerell (Bombyliidae). 



The reverse of the type has been found antl shows some of the 

 details of the venation better than the original specimen. It shows, 

 in particular, that the upper basal corner of second submarginal cell 

 has a short accessory nervure pointing directly basad; consequently, 

 in my table in Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXXIII, p. 233, the genus 

 runs straight to Alepidophora. The insect is, however, very distinct 

 from Alepidophora pealei in a variety of ways, such as the more 

 widely open first posterior cell, the quite different shape of the second 

 posterior, and the shape of the end of the marginal cell. The end 

 of the marginal cell in A. pealei is like that of Paracosmus morrisoni, 

 whereas in P. antiqua it is as in Paracosmus insolens. In the original 

 account of A. pealei, it appears that the prsefurca is practically obso- 

 lete, but a new study of the type shows that this is an error of inter- 

 pretation, owing to the condition of preservation; the prsefurca is 

 actually 880 microns long in A. pealei, while the first basal cell on 

 the first submarginal is 2,240 microns. 



In the reverse of P. antiqua the abdomen appears reddish, con- 

 spicuously lighter than the thorax; it is not banded like that of 

 A. pealei. 



A new and much more complete set of measurements (in microns) 

 of P. antiqua is offered. Length of prsefurca, 592; width (depth) 

 of marginal cell near end, 480; first submarginal on wing margin 

 (not allowing for curve), 850; squared basal end of second submargi- 

 nal, 272; second submarginal on first posterior, 1,184; first basal 

 on first submarginal, 1,472; first posterior on first submarginal, 

 1,280; length of anterior cross-vein, 288; discal cell on first basal, 

 1,360; discal on first posterior, 608; width (depth) of discal cell at 

 level of anterior cross-vein, 304; discal cell on second basal, 224; 

 first posterior on wing-margin, 304; second posterior on discal, 280; 

 second posterior on wing-margin, 800; second posterior on third, 

 992; third posterior on wing-margin, 720; fourth posterior on second 

 basal, 128; greatest width of anal cell, 352; anal on wing-margin, 

 400. 



Geron C?) platysoma n. sp. (Bombyliidae). 



Length about 10.5 mm.; thorax about 3 mm., the dorsum in 

 lateral profile flat for about 2 mm. ; length of wing, 7.5 mm. ; abdomen 

 with dorsal region alternately banded dark and light, the dark twice 

 as broad as the light (as Becker figures for Heterotropus glaucus). 




644: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Wings clear, with light ferruginous nervures; venation as in Geron 

 gibhosus, with anal cell closed well before wing-margin, but the 

 discal cell is produced apically above and the anterior cross-vein is 

 oblique; all the venational characters agree exactly with a Geron 

 from Colorado. 



The following measurements are in microns: first submarginal 

 cell on wing margin, 608; length of prsefurca, 400; first submarginal 

 cell on first posterior, 1,664; first submarginal on first basal, 1,456; 

 second submarginal on first posterior, about 1,920; first basal on 

 discal, 1,184; first posterior on discal, 960; lower side of discal cell 

 (on third posterior), 1,392; discal on second basal, 192; third pos- 

 terior on second basal, 288. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch {Wickham). The 

 venation absolutely agrees with that of certain species of Geron, but 

 the long, flattened thorax (perhaps partly distorted by pressure?) 

 is very unlike that genus. The antennEe and proboscis cannot be 

 made out. I suppose that the ancestors of Geron got the venation 

 of the modern flies before they got the abbreviated form and humped 

 thorax. The fossil should probably constitute a distinct genus, 

 but it may provisionally remain in Geron, pending the discovery of 

 better preserved material, 



Heteromyiella miocenica n. sp. (Helomyzidas). 



Length 5 mm., wing 4.5 mm.; head, thorax and legs black; abdo- 

 men reddish, with scattered coarse bristles; wings reddish hyaline, 

 without markings. Oral vibrissse very large; anterior (or middle?) 



tibia with straight spu-r and curved preapical 

 — _ ^ ^ bristle. Venation normal; costa with many 



-^^^'^ "~~ very short black bristles (practically as in 



'■--;,„^)^>' !;^^ Heteromyiella senilis = Heteromyza senilis 



Scudder), but no long ones; auxiliary vein 

 ^Teierog^yZJa^mjocenim. distinct, complete and separate; anterior 



cross-vein below end of first vein; first 

 posterior cell broadened in middle, the third vein distinctlj^ arched 

 upward (as in Helomyza limhata); second basal cell minute but 

 distinct, anal cell also distinct. 



The following measurements are in microns: humeral cross-vein 

 to end of first vein, 1,520; end of auxiliary vein to end of first vein, 

 400 ; second vein from point below end of first vein to wing-margin, 

 1,920; submarginal cell on wing margin (not allowing for curve), 

 592; submarginal cell on first posterior, 2,080; width of first pos- 

 terior cell at level of end of discal, 448; first posterior on discal, 




1914.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



800; first posterior on second posterior, 1,120; discal cell on second 

 posterior, 544; second posterior on third posterior, 320; first basal 

 on discal, 1,250; second basal on discal, 112; anal on third posterior, 

 208. 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). It is 

 rather remarkable that the Heteromyiella type, with only short 

 bristles on the costa, should apparently (as shown by fossils from two 

 or three localities) have been prevalent in North America in Tertiary 

 times, whereas in the modern fauna it has given way to the genera 

 with long as well as short bristles. 



Empis miocenica n- sp. (Empididae). 



Length 5.5 mm., -vving a little over 5.5, middle leg about 5; head 

 about 1 mm. long, beak evident, but its length cannot be ascertained. 

 Whole insect, as preserved, light ferruginous, the abdomen with 

 dusky bands; wings reddish, ^vith a very dilute stigmatal cloud. 

 Only the upper part of the wing shows the venation clearly, but this 

 appears to be quite normal for the genus. 



The following measurements are in microns : end of first vein from 

 base of Aving, about 3,440; end of first vein to second (vertically) at 

 same level, 144; end of first vein to end of second, about 1,600; 

 separation of second and third veins from base of wing, about 1,120; 

 the two branches of third vein are about equally long (1,120), the 

 upper branch almost straight, with a very faint downward curve. 

 The auxiliary vein can be seen very close to the first, but extremely 

 weak and not reaching costa. The hind femora are large and stout, 

 ■udth a row of short, stiff, black spiniform bristles on the lower side. 

 The anterior legs are lost. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham). 

 Considerably larger and more robust than E. florissantana, with the 

 head much smaller in proportion to the thorax. 



Empis florissantana n- sp. (Empididse). 



9 . Length about 4.50 mm. ; wings 3.25, hyahne, except for a brown 

 stigmatic cloud; middle legs about 4 mm. Face not hairy; head in 

 lateral profile broad-oval; proboscis stout and stiff, much longer 

 than head; thoracic dorsum dark; venation ordinary; hind femur 

 reaching end of fifth abdominal segment. 



The following measurements are in microns: length of head, about 

 640; leng-th of proboscis, about 1,040; anterior femur, about 1,040, 

 its tibia about the same ; end of second vein to end of anterior branch 

 of third, 272; length of anterior branch of third, 320; length of 




646 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



posterior or inferior branch of third, 672 ; apical width of first posterior 

 cell, about 336; apical width of second posterior, about 320. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham). 

 This appears to be a quite ordinary species of Emyis. These are the 

 first Empididse to be described from Florissant. 



Empis florissantana. Costo-apical region of wing. 



Empis florissantana. Discal cell and adjacent parts. 

 Plecia axeliana n. sp. (Bibionidae). 



9. Length about 8. .5 mm., wing 9 mm.; thorax black with the 

 mesothorax apparently red; abdomen banded dark and light, the 

 light bands wider than the dark; wings reddish hyaline, suffusedly 

 darker in costal region; head small, about 1.25 mm. diameter; 

 venation normal. 



The following measurements are in microns: depth of marginal 

 cell at level of anterior cross-vein, 480; depth of submarginal cell at 

 level of end of second vein (so-called anterior branch of third), 480; 

 distance from end of second vein to end of third, about 1,760; dis- 

 tance in a straight line from base of marginal cell to separation of 

 second vein from third, 2,880; length of the rather oblique anterior 

 cross-vein, 272; lower end of anterior cross-vein to fork of fourth, 

 752. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham). 

 Much larger than P. melanderi Ckll. (d^), with the abdomen quite 

 differently marked; but in view of the sexual dimorphism in this 

 family, it may be the female of melanderi. I have given it a name 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



derived from Professor Melander's given name, to serve as an indica- 

 tion of this probability. It seems inadvisable to assume identity, 

 as it is improl^able that it can be proved, and since the insects appear 

 different, it is desirable to know which is referred to in any particular 

 citation. When describing P. melanderi I remarked on the lengthen- 

 ing of the stem of the fourth vein, between the anterior cross-vein 

 and the fork. In P. plagiata Wied. (det. Knab) from Quirigua, 

 Guatemala (W. P. Cockereir),it is exactly as long (752 microns) as 

 in P. axeliana. P. plagiata, however, differs radically from P. axeliana 

 and melanderi in having the second vein (or upper branch of third) 

 directed vertically upward, so that it looks like a cross-vein. 



Bibio wickhami n. sp. (Bibionidse). 



9 . Length about 12 mm. ; wing 6.75 ; proboscis 2 mm. ; hind 

 femur 3 mm.; second posterior cell slightly over 2.5 mm. long. 

 Head, thorax and legs black; abdomen dark brown, the sutures 

 colorless; wings clear, the costal region slightly brownish, veins pale 

 reddish. The stem of third vein, before the cross-vein (following the 

 usual interpretation) , is 576 microns long, while the cross-vein is only 

 about 80. The cross-vein leaves the fourth at a slight angle, and is 

 in a straight line with the part of the third (2 + 3) beyond it, the 

 third being abruptly bent at the cross-vein. This is nearly as in the 

 living Bibio alhipennis, but is very different from the Florissant fossil 

 B. atavus, in which the stem of fourth before the cross-vein is only 

 about 320 microns, while the oblique cross-vein is about 1,040, being 

 almost as long as the stem of fourth vein between the cross-vein and 

 the fork (basal corner of second posterior cell). 



Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). 



Mycomya lithomendax n. sp. (Mycetophilidse). 



Length nearly 5.5 mm., abdomen 4, wing 4 mm.; anterior tibia 

 about 1.5 mm., its tarsus 2.5; microscopical measurements give the 

 following in microns: anterior tibia, 1,392; its basitarsus, 1,120; 

 length of antennse, 1,920. Dorsum of thorax and abdomen dark 

 brown, the abdominal sutures rather broadly pallid; tibiae and tarsi 

 brown, femora pallid; hind femora with a row of short black bristles 

 on under side; wings redcUsh hyaline, without markings. The 

 thorax (seen in lateral profile) is much more elevated or humped than 

 in M. cockerelli Joh. The venation nearly agrees with that of 

 M. cockerelli, but differs in some small details. The subcosta 

 (I follow Johannsen's nomenclature) ends on the costa as usual, its 

 upwardly directed end, beyond the cross-vein, is 128 (all measure- 

 ments in microns) long; the cross-vein to radius is 192 beyond base 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



of the small cell Ri, and is about the middle of that cell, which is 

 quite long, as in M. ohliqua (Say). The apical end of cell R has its 

 upper face (above separation of lower branch of radius from radio- 

 medial cross-vein) 128 microns long, and the lower face (radio-medial 

 cross-vein) 192 and more oblique; this is almost as in M. maxima Joh. 

 Miocene shales of Florissant, Wilson Ranch (Wickham). Larger 

 than the fossil M. cockerelli, and differing in coloration, details of the 

 venation, and the proportions of the legs. It appears to be very close 

 to the living M. mendax Joh., a species of the Pacific coast region. 



Asilus wickhami n. sp. (Asilidse). 



Length 18.5 mm., of which 13.25 is abdomen; wings about 11 mm.; 

 middle femora 3 mm., hind femora 4. Antennae normal; the head 

 and thorax were apparently black, the abdomen paler, somewhat 

 darker dorsally than ventrally; legs without conspicuous bristles, 

 tarsi thick;, wings clear, nervures ferruginous. Bristles on the legs 

 can be seen with the compound microscope, but they are pale or 

 reddish, not black as in most species, and so are easily overlooked. 



As in A. peritulus Ckll., the veins at the end of the second basal 

 and fourth posterior cells form a cross; but in some other respects 

 the venation differs from that of A. peritulus as follows: 



(1) Marginal cell not so narrow at end. 



(2) Sides of second submarginal beyond base parallel until near 

 apex, when they gradually diverge; in A. peritulus the sides have a 

 gentle double curve. 



(3) Second posterior cell broader at base. 



(4) Anterior cross-vein about middle of discal cell ; i.e. , 1 ,440 microns 

 from base and 1,330 from apex. 



Wilson Ranch, Miocene shales of Florissant {H. F. Wickham), 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



The following annual reports were referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



1914. 



Ten meetings have been held during the year with an average 

 attendance of thirty. 



Thirty-three papers have been presented for publication, as follows: 



E. G. Vanatta, 4; Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos Brown, 3; Henry 

 W. Fowler, 2; N. E. Mclndoo, 2; Howard Crawley, 2; Henry Fox, 

 1; F. J. Keeley, 1; John H. Lowell, 1; Edward P. Poulton, 1; 

 Witmer Stone, 1; H. Newell Wardle, 1; Henry A. Pilsbry, 1; Charles 

 S. Boyer, 1; Albert M. Reese, 1; Roy Chapman Andrews, 1; Harold 

 Heath, 1; Phil and Nellie Rau, 1; D. N. Barringer, 1; Burnett 

 Smith, 1 ; Stanislas Meunier, 1 ; Joseph C. Thompson, 1 ; Charles P. 

 Alexander, 1; Nathan Banks,' 1; T. D. A. Cockerell, 1; James 

 Chester Bradley et ah, 1. 



Five of these communications were returned to the authors and two 

 await publication. The others have all appeared in the Proceedings. 



Of the Proceedings 794 pages and 41 plates have been published. 

 413 pages, illustrated by 16 plates, have appeared of the Transac- 

 tions of the American Entomological Society (Entomological 

 Section of the Academy). The Section has also issued 480 pages 

 and 18 plates of the Entomological News. 357 pages and 36 plates 

 have been added to the Manual of Conchology by Dr. Pilsbry. 

 This is an increase of 480 pages and 17 plates over the total output 

 for last year. 



Seven members and eleven correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of fifteen members and five correspondents have been 

 announced. Resignations of membership have been accepted from 

 William W. Keen, M.D., Edward Anthony Spitzka, M.D., and 

 C. Hartman Kuhn. Four members were dropped for non-payment 

 of dues. 



A final report of the Centenary Celebration was read at the meeting 

 of December 2, 1913. A resolution expressive of the Academy's 

 appreciation of the work of the Committee having charge of the 

 celebration was adopted and duly recorded in the published Pro- 

 ceedings. 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



George Vaux, Jr., was reappointed by the Council the Sohcitor of 

 the Academy; Frank J. Keeley was also reappointed Curator of the 

 William S, Vaux Collections, and Joseph Wilcox Custodian of the 

 Isaac Lea Collections. 



By authority of the Council, the securities of the Academy have 

 been transferred from the Trust Company of North America to the 

 Girard Trust Co. 



The manuscript history of the Academy, prepared by the Record- 

 ing Secretary in connection with the Centenary proceedings and 

 accepted for publication in 1912, has been for some time ready for 

 the printer, but awaits the necessary appropriation for its issue in 

 proper form with desirable illustrations. The requisite amount is 

 beheved to be $1800 for an edition of, say, 500 copies. 



The Hayden Memorial medal was presented to Dr. Henry Fair- 

 field Osborn for his distinguished work in palseontology at a special 

 meeting held November 24. The presentation address was made 

 by the President and responded to by the recipient of the award. 



The lectures delivered to the pupils of the Girls' High School, 

 referred to in the last report, were continued with gratifying results 

 until April 15. During the current season so far two lectures of a 

 similar course have been delivered by Dr. Skinner, two by Dr. 

 Pilsbry, and one by Dr. Moore. 



The regular course to the public was delivered on Monday evenings 

 from January 5 to April 27 as follows: Three by Dr. Witmer Stone, 

 on local bird life; one by Dr. B. Franklin Royer, on plagues, their 

 transmission and prevention; one by F. Herbert Snow, on dangers 

 of bad water; three by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, on the scientific ex- 

 plorers of America; three by Dr. Henry Skinner, on entomology; 

 three by Dr. Spencer Trotter, on anthropology; three by Dr. Witmer 

 Stone, on local wild flowers, substituting for Mr. Stewardson Brown, 

 who was unable because of illness to deliver his appointed course. 



The Delaware Valley Naturalists' Union, the Pennsylvania Library 

 Club, the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, the Philadelphia 

 Botanical Club and the Philadelphia County Medical Society have 

 held meetings in the Academy. 



Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



In the foreign relations of the Academy during the past year the 

 most noteworthy circumstance was the marked decrease in the 




1914. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



volume of incoming correspondence as a result of the diminished 

 activities of European scientific institutions since the out))reak of 

 the war. 



Correspondents reported deceased during the year were Albert 

 Guenther, Carl Chun, Edward Suess, Frederick W. True, Theodore 

 Gill, August Weismann and Charles Sedgwick Minot. Those 

 elected were Edgar A. Mearns, Frank M. Chapman, Charles W. 

 Richmond, Edmund Heller, Gerrit S. Miller, Nathaniel Charles 

 Rothschild, Marie Curie, Charles T. Ramsden, Shibasaburo Kitasato, 

 Frank Dawson Adams and Alfred Werner. 



While a large number of scientific congresses in which the Academy 

 was invited to take part had been scheduled for the year, all of those 

 of an international character were either abandoned or postponed. 

 In those cases in which the Academy was asked to express an opinion 

 upon the advisability of so doing, our vote was cast in favor of 

 postponement, as conditions in Europe seemed likely to preclude the 

 attendance of a representative body of foreign delegates. In cases 

 where delegates had been already appointed they were requested to 

 allow their names to stand as the representatives of the Academy 

 until the postponed meetings shall have convened. At the Atlanta 

 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science 

 held in the early part of the fiscal year. Dr. Henry Skinner and 

 Dr. Philip P. Calvert were the Academy's delegates. Dr. John 

 Mason Clarke served as a delegate to the exercises inaugurating 

 John Huston Finley as President of the University of the State of 

 New York, and Professor J. G. Hidalgo was appointed to a like 

 position in connection with 150th anniversary of the National 

 Academy of Sciences and Arts of Barcelona. 



As usual, a considerable number of requests for information were 

 replied to by the Corresponding Secretary or referred to other mem- 

 bers of the Academy staff. Statistics of the correspondence follow: 



Communications received: 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 154 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 67 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 6 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc L5 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 16 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 21 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 11 



Letters from coiTespond^nts IS 



Miscellaneous letters 90 



Total received 398 



43 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Communications forwarded: 



Acknowledging gifts to the library 1,308 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies 134 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 73 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 6 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 10 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 23 



Miscellaneous letters 152 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 257 



Total forwarded 1,963 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 

 1914. 



The additions to the library since the last annual report amount 

 to 8,325. Of these 7,244 were pamphlets and continuations of 

 periodicals, 929 volumes and 152 maps. 



They were received from the following sources: 



Exchanges 



I. V. Williamson Fund 



General Appropriation 



United States Department of 

 Agriculture 



Pennsylvania State Library 



Authors 



Editors • 



J. A. Meigs Fund 



United States Bureau of Educa- 

 tion 



Connecticut State Library 



Nebraska State Board of Agri- 

 culture 



Imperial Department of Agricul- 

 ture, British West Indies 



T. B. Wilson Fund 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Health..... 



Pennsylvania Department of 

 Agriculture 



Sveriges Geologiska Under- 

 sokning 



University of Nebraska 



United States Department of 

 the Interior 



Pan-American Union 



Intcirnational Institute of Agri- 

 culture 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



653 



Geological Survej' of New Jersey 



United States War Department.. 



Danish Government 



University of Wyoming 



New York State Board of Chari- 

 ties 



lUinois State Geological Sm-vey.. 



Geological Sm-vey of Alabama.... 



Albei't I., Prince de Monaco 



French Government 



Missouri Bm-eau of Geology and 

 Mines 



Rockefeller Sanitary Commis- 

 sion 



Station Seismique de Ire Calsse 

 d'Irkoutsk 



K. Danske Videnskabernes Sel- 

 skabs 



Charles Hedley 



J. G. Whiteman 



Witmer Stone 



Washington Geological Sm-vey... 



Iowa Geological Sm-vey 



Family of Dr. Constantine Her- 



ing 



United States Brewers' Asso- 

 ciation 



Geological Survey of Victoria 



Det Kgl. Frederiks Universitet... 



Chester County Historical So- 

 ciety 



Illinois Bm-eau of Labor Sta- 

 tistics 



Pennsylvania Forestry Associa- 

 tion 



Commission Polaire Interna- 

 tional 



4 

 3 

 3 

 3 



3 

 3 

 3 

 3 

 3 



2 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 2 



Government of Formosa 



Delaware Valley Ornithological 

 Club 



Joseph Willcox 



John M. Clarke 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros del Minas 

 de Peru 



Pennsylvania Society 



Ontario Department of Agri- 

 culture 



Delaware County Institute of 

 Science 



Louisiana State Museum 



Hawaii Agricultural Experiment 

 Station 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Seismological Station ler Ord- 

 nung, Ekaterinburg 



Mrs. S. L. Oberholtzer , 



John C. Branner 



Department of Fisheries, Ben- 

 gal, Bihar and Orissa 



Henry A. Pilsbry 



North Dakota Agricultural Ex- 

 periment Station 



James A. G. Rehn 



Rice Institute of Liberal and 

 Technical Training 



Wisconsin Geological and 

 Natural History Survey 



J. G. Vail 



Trustees of Amherst College 



George F. Kunz 



National Academy of Sciences. . . . 



Pennsylvania Water Suppty 

 Commission 



These additions were distributed to tlie departments of the Library 

 as follows: 



Journals 5,748 



Agriculture 1,062 



Geology 411 



Botany 222 



Geography 146 



General Natural Historj^ 108 



99 

 95 

 70 

 59 

 44 

 40 

 28 



Entomology., 



Anatomy and Physiology. 



Voyages and Travels 



Ornithology 



Anthropology 



Encyclopedias 



Conchology 



Mammalogy 



Physical Sciences. 



Ichthyology 



Mineralogy 



Helminthology 



Bibliography 



Chemistry 



Mathematics 



Herpetology 



Medicine 



Philology 



Miscellaneous 



27 



20 



17 



17 



14 



13 



12 



12 



8 



8 



1 



44 



Among the more important general works secured by purchase are : 



Falck, Mycologische Untersuchungen und Berichte, Heft 1. 



Keibel, Normentafeln z. Entwicklungsgeschichte d. Wirbelthierein, 1911. 



Krusenstern, Reise um die Welt, 1803-1806. 



Linne, Genera Plantarum, Ed. 5, 1754. 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Valmont de Bomake, Dictionnaire Raisonnee Universel d'Histoire Naturelle, 



Editions of 1768, 1768-69, 1776, and 1791. 

 Willkomm et Lange, Prodromus Florae Hispanicse, 1861-1893. 



The following additions have been made to the collection of 

 Journals and Periodicals: 



Academie des Sciences, Paris, Proces-Verbaux, I-IV. 



American Breeders' Association, Reports, I, III, IV, VI-VIII. 



American Breeders' Magazine, I-IV. 



American Jom-nal of Botany, I, 1. 



Archivio de Anatomia e de Antropologia, Nos. 1-2. 



Art and Archaeology, I, 1. 



Australian Zoologist, I, 1. 



Beitrage zur Krystallographie und Mineralogie, I, 1, 2. 



Bios. Rivista di Biologia Sperimentale e Generale, I-II, 1. 



Brooklyn Botanical Garden, Bulletin; Circular; Contributions, I-III. 



Bulletin des Neuesten und Wissenswiirdigsten aus der Naturwissenschaft, I-XV. 



Canada Department of the Interior, Bulletin of Forestry Branch, 1912, 1913. 



Connecticut State Board of Agriculture, Annual Reports, 1866, 1869, 1871, 1906, 

 1909, 1912. 



Conseil Permanent International pour I'Exploration de la Mer. Rapports et 

 Proces-Verbaux, I-XX. 



Contributions a la Faune des Indes Neerlandaises, I, 1. 



Copeia, Nos. 1-10. 



Department of Agriculture, Trinidad, Circulars, Nos. 1-7, 10-16. 



Department of Colonization, Mines and Fisheries, Quebec, Report on Mining 

 Operations, 1910, 1911, 1912. Preliminary Statement on Mineral Produc- 

 tion, 1913. 



Durban Museum, Annals, I, 1. 



Gardens (The) Bulletin, Singapore, I, 6, 7. 



Geographisches Jahrbuch, I-XXXVI. 



Hastings and East Sussex Naturahst, I, 4, 5, 6; II, 1, 2, 3. 



Hastings and St. Leonards Natural History Society, Reports, 1910-1913. 



Internationale Zeitschrift f. physikalisch-chemische Biologie, I. 



Journal of Heredity, V. 



K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Institut. Ergebnisse aerologischer Beobacht- 

 ungen. No. 1. 



Meddelelser om Danmarks Antropologi, I, II, 1. 



Mueller Botanic Society, Journal and Proceedings, I, 7-11. 



Museo Nacional de Arqueologia, Historia y Etnologia, Auales, I, 13; III, 3, 6, 

 7, 8; IV; V, 1, 3. 



Museum des Neuesten und Wissenswiirdigsten aus dem Gebiete der Natur- 

 wissenschaft, I-XV. 



Natural History and Science Society of Western Australia, Journal, III, 1, 2; lY. 



Naturwissenschaftliches Museum der Stadt Crefeld, Mitteilungen, 1909, 1910, 

 1913. 



Nebraska Academy of Sciences, Publications, I-VIII. 



Nebraska State Board of Agriculture, Transactions, 1879-1891, 1893-1913. 



Petrographical Institute "Lithoga>a, " Publications, III, IV. 



Seismological Society of America, Bulletin, I-III, IV, 1, 2, 3. 



Seismis(;he Station ler Ordnung, Ekaterinburg, Wck'hentliches Bulletin, I. 



Sociedade Portuguesa de Sciencias Naturals, Meniorias, I. 



Societa di Etnografia Kaliana, Lares Bolletin, I, II, 1, 2, 3. 



Soci6te Zoologique de Geneve, Bulletin, I, II, 1, 2, 3. 



Universite de Jassy, Annales Scientifiques, VIII, 1, 2. 



University of Michigan, Occasional Papers of tlie Museum of Zoology, I, 1-4. 



University of Minnesota, Contributions from Department of Anatomy, I, II. 



Victoria Memorial Museum, Bulletin, I. 



Webbia, Raccolta di Scritti Botanici, I-III, IV, 1. 



West Australian Natural History Society, Journal, 1-6. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



Zeitsclirift f. ansowaudte Entoniologic, I, 1, 2. 

 Zeitschrift f. Oologie, I-XV. 

 Zeitschrift f. \iilkanoloo;ie, I, 1, 2. 

 Zoolofiiska Bidrag fnm Uppsala, I, II. 



The decrease in the number of accessions as compared to the 

 groAvth of last year is partly owing to a curtaihnent of appropriations 

 and partly to the interference of the war with the publication and 

 transmission of foreign periodicals. 



The issue of German journals, at first interrupted, has now been 

 resumed, and they, just at present, are being received with tolerable 

 regularity. Scarcely anything, except the Comptes Rendus of the 

 Academy of Sciences and the Society of Biology reaches us from 

 France, and these curtailed in size. Needless to say, nothing has 

 come from Belgium since the invasion. The fine annual package 

 from the Catholic University of Louvain will probably never be 

 received again. 



The amount at the disposal of the Library Committee has per- 

 mitted of the binding of only 218 volumes. 



The Card Catalogue is being thoroughly revised by Mr. Fox and 

 information secured regarding incomplete sets, many of which, 

 it is found, are in their present condition because of the death of 

 the authors or the discontinuance of publication. 



A proposition to amend the By-Laws so as to permit of the loaning 

 of books from the Library, on which adverse action had been taken 

 last year, was again referred to the Council and will probably be 

 reported on favorably. Final action on this and other propositions 

 will not be taken by the Academy until the third Tuesday in January. 

 They will be more particularly dealt with in next year's report. 



The Librarian was granted leave of absence to attend the Inter- 

 national Exposition of Book Industries and the Graphic Arts in 

 Leipzig and subsequently the meeting of the British Library Associa- 

 tion at Oxford. On the breaking out of the war all idea of reaching 

 Leipzig had to. be abandoned and news of the postponement of the 

 Oxford meeting soon followed. In the intermediate tin).e between 

 the first mobilization of troops and the beginning of actual fighting 

 the journey from Milan to London was made with no disaster and 

 the minimum of inconvenience. Earlier and later efforts to make 

 the passage were much more serious matters. 



During the Librarian's absence the routine business of the library 



was carried on with characteristic efficiency by his assistants, William 



J. Fox and Furman S. Wilde, to whom he is glad to again make 



deserved acknowledgment. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 




656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



IV. REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The year just completed has been marked b}^ important progress 

 in the arrangement and study of the collections and by the accession 

 of much valuable material. 



The Museum has been visited by a large number of persons and 

 there has been a constant increase in the schools and classes which 

 have come, under the guidance of teachers, to study the collections. 

 Classes in sketching from the School of Industrial Art have made use 

 of» the Museum every week during the winter months, and students 

 from the natural history department of the Girls' High School have 

 studied the collections regularly throughout the school year. The 

 Department of Health of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has 

 continued to occupy the quarters in the building allotted to it by the 

 Academy some years ago. 



The movement of the centre of the city westward has been dis- 

 tinctly noticeable in the increased number of visitors to the Museum, 

 and the completion of the Parkway, which will pass the front of the 

 Academy, will have a still greater influence in this direction. 



In the builcUng, necessary repairs to the roof and heating plant 

 have been made during the year. The marble wainscoting in the 

 entrance hall has been moved out and backed by brick to form a 

 support for the larger Icthyosaurus fossils which have been mounted 

 thereon, adding greatly to the appearance of the hall. 



A number of large palms in tubs, gift of Mrs. Curwin Stoddart, 

 Jr., have been placed in the entrance halls and the mineralogical 

 room. 



Seven plate-glass exhibition cases have been purchased during the 

 year, three for the mammal and four for the archaeological hall, while 

 plate-glass frames have been provided for covering the large fossils 

 in the entrance hall. 



Twenty-six metsfcl-covered storage cases have been purchased for 

 the study series of mammals and shells, as well as 102 insect boxes 

 and 450 trays. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore conducted two explorations among the 

 Indian burial mounds along the Tennessee River, adding some valua- 

 ble material to the Clarence B. Moore Collection in the Archseological 

 hall. While the results were not so rich as heretofore in the matter 

 of specimens, the information obtained is of the greatest importance. 



Leave of absence was granted to several members of the Museum 

 staff during the year for the purpose of conducting collecting expedi- 

 tions in the field. Dr. Henry Skinner spent the month of Februar}- 




V 

 1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



in Cuba as the guest of Mr. Charles T. Ramsden and collected ex- 

 tensively for the Academy, receiving valuable assistance from Mr. 

 Ramsden. 



Dr. Witmer Stone spent two weeks in May collecting in central 

 South Carolina, while Mr. Stewardson Brown made another trip to 

 Bermuda. Both secured valuable material. Other members of the 

 staff carried on considerable local field work, which yielded valuable 

 results. Details of museum work and important accessions in the 

 various departments follow. 



Mammals. 



For the exhibition series the taxidermist, Mr. David McCadden, 

 has devoted considerable time to the mounting of a number of East 

 African Antelopes, a Giraffe and an African Forest Pig, collected by 

 Messrs. A. M. Collins and E. M. Scull. A very fine Buffalo bull, 

 obtained a few years ago from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, 

 was also mounted for exhibition. 



Some time was also devoted to the mounting of the skeleton of the 

 large fin-back Whale obtained at Ocean City, N. J., in 1891. This 

 specimen has been erected in the north hall of the Museum and 

 presents a very fine appearance. Mr. McCadden was assisted in 

 tnis work by Mr. Edw. W. Stucke, whose services were secured for 

 part of the year. 



Seventeen mammals were received from the Zoological Society 

 and have been variously prepared for mounting, skins, or osteological 

 specimens. Most important of these was a skeleton of the Indian 

 Elephant. 



The entire mammalian osteological collection has been assembled 

 during the year in the mammal room on the fourth floor, where 

 metal-covered cases have been provided for its reception. As soon as 

 the collection is thoroughly rearranged it is thought that it will offer 

 as good facilities for the study of mammalian osteology as can be 

 found in any museum in America. 



Mr. Childs Frick spent considerable time in the department 

 studying the Donaldson Smith collection in connection with his 

 report on the material obtained by him in Africa. 



Mr. Vernon Bailey also visited the Museum for the purpose of 

 studying the series of Thomomys, and specimens have been loaned 

 for study to Dr. J. A. Allen, Messrs. R. C. Andrews, E. W. Nelson, 

 G. S. Miller, Jr., and W. H. Osgood. 



Dr. Witmer Stone made a critical study of the mammals collected 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



by Mr. S. N. Rhoads in Ecuador and prepared a report on them, 

 which has been published in the Proceedings. 



Birds. 



Additions to the exhibition series consist of several local specimens 

 received from the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, a group of 

 Swallow-tailed Kites from Texas, presented by Mr. George B. Benners, 

 and a group of Heath Hens from Marthas Vineyard, the gift of 

 Mr. Frederick H. Kennard, which have been recently mounted. 



A large series of beautifully mounted birds, mainly from Texas 

 and Pennsylvania, has been presented by Mr. Benners, which will 

 be substituted for less desirable specimens in the general exhibit just 

 as soon as cases can be secured for storing the duplicate material 

 that must be withdrawn from exhibition before this collection can 

 be rearranged. 



The renovation of the study collection has continued without 

 interruption. Mr. D. E. Culver, student on the Jessup Fund, has 

 proceeded with the relaxing of the old unmounted specimens and 

 has completed all of the Tanagridse, Icterida, Ploceidse, Dicruridse, 

 Oriolidse and Turdidse. The fronts of the trays have been painted 

 with white enamel and all the cases and trays have been relabelled 

 and lined with sheet cotton, from the Psittacidse to the beginning of 

 the Passeres. 



Dr. Stone has also rearranged the Pigeons and Birds of Prey and 

 has reidentified the entire collection of Humming-birds. 



The type specimens have likewise been relaxed and relabelled. A 

 number of specimens have been identified for the Zoological Society 

 and for correspondents, and a card catalogue of all new species of 

 birds described since 1911 has been compiled for use in the study room. 



A valuable series of bird skins from Santa Marta, Colombia, was 

 received by purchase and a small number from West Africa. 



Mr. Gregory M. Mathews spent two days at the Academy studying 

 the Gould types in connection with his great work on the birds of 

 Australia, and Prof. W. W. Cooke examined the collection for Texan 

 specimens. Many local students have al^o made use of the study 

 material, and specimens were loaned to Messrs. E. W. Nelson, Frank 

 M. Chapman, Harry C. Oberholser and Dr. E. A. Mearns. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler has looked after this department during 

 the year and has identified and prepared for preservation all the new 




1914.] NATURAL SflENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



material received, numlKn-ing several hundred specimens, of which 

 about 100 have been catalogued. 



The stuffed reptiles of the old collection, as well as the reptilian 

 osteological material, have been gathered together in a room on the 

 fourth floor, where they are readily accessible. Specimens have 

 been loaned to Dr. L. Stejneger for study. 



Fishes. 



The ichthyological collection has also been under Mr. Fowler's 

 care. He has examined the main alcoholic collection and prepared, 

 identified and labelled all the specimens obtained during the year, 

 cataloguing some 2,600 individuals. Numerous local trips that he 

 has taken have added large series of Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 fishes to the collection. 



He has also studied critically the large group of catfishes and 

 related forms contained in the Museum and has a report on them 

 now in preparation. Papers have been published on Greenland, 

 British Guianan, and local fishes in the Academy's Proceedings. 



MOLLUSKS. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, special curator of this department, reports 

 that accessions have been received during the year from 69 persons 

 and institutions. No small part of his time, as well as that of Mr. 

 E. G. Vanatta, has been taken up in determining specimens for 

 correspondents, and while this work is rendered freely by the 

 Academy, as a service it owes to the public, it is abundantly repaid 

 by the gifts of desired specimens. 



Although no expeditions have been undertaken during the year 

 for this department, Messrs. Ferriss and Daniels have shared the 

 results of their summer's collecting in Arizona, covering a district 

 not before worked for mollusks, and local collecting trips by members 

 of the Museum staff have added some valuable material. 



Considerable progress has been made in determining and labelling 

 the Hawaiian material collected by Dr. Pilsbry in 1913; the assorting 

 of mixed lots having been completed, so that all species not yet 

 determined are available for convenient study. The study and 

 arrangement of the Achatinellidce have been completed. 



The series of American land shells and of land operculates have 

 been cleaned and catalogued by Miss Caroline Ziegler, who has 

 also been occupied with assorting material received from various 

 sources. 




660 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Dr. Pilsbry has completed the publication of a monograph of the 

 Hawaiian tree snails, Achatinsllidx, together with a supplement 

 describing new material collected in 1913. The preparation of a 

 monograph of the family Tornatellinidce, also largely Hawaiian, is 

 well advanced. 



Insects. 



Dr. Henry Skinner, head of the department of Entomology, reports 

 that he and Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr., have rearranged the families 

 Gyrinidae, Hydrophihdse and part of the Scarabseidse among the 

 Coleoptera and the exotic and American Syntomidse, Uranidae and 

 the genus Catagramma among the Lepidoptera. Considerable time 

 has also been devoted to a study of over 8,000 Acalyptrate Diptera. 



Dr. Horn's types of Coleoptera in the families Throscidse, Mala- 

 chidse, Cleridse, Ptinidae, Lucanidse and Scarab2eida3 have been 

 located and numbered, as well as many of Grote's types of Moths. 



The local collection is being entirely rearranged in cabinets in the 

 Entomological rooms, where it is easily accessible and can be added 

 to from time to time. The arrangement of the Odonata, Orthoptera, 

 Lepidoptera, Rhopalocera, and part of the Heterocera and Coleop- 

 tera has been completed. 



In the Orthoptera Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has rearranged the Blattidse 

 and Dermaptera, the exotic Mantidae and a considerable portion of 

 the North American Tettigoniidae. He has been engaged more or 

 less regularly throughout the year, in conjunction with Mr. Morgan 

 Hebard, in studying the Orthoptera collected by them in the south- 

 eastern United States, together with material from the ^ame area 

 loaned by Cornell University, the State of Georgia and individual 

 collectors. In this connection six genera were critically revised, 

 and papers on them are in press or in process of completion. 



Mr. Rehn has also made considerable progress in the study of 

 Brazilian Orthoptera received from various sources and has started 

 upon the determination of African collections submitted by the 

 Berlin Museum and German National Entomological Museum, 

 from which the Academy will receive a duplicate series. A collec- 

 tion of Phasmidae from New Guinea, sent by the Royal Zoological 

 Society of Amsterdam, is to be worked up on the same terms. 



Mr. Hebard, who has spent much time studying his private col- 

 lection, which is deposited at the Academy, has presented many 

 specimens originally in the Bruner collection and has continued to 

 maintain a preparator whose services have been given libci-ally to the 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 661 



Academy in connection with the Orthoptera collection. Through 

 his liberality also, Mr. Rehn was enabled to accompany him to 

 Boston and Washington to study type material. 



The Entomological department has received many valuable 

 accessions during the year. A series of 5,296 moths and other 

 insects, the collection of the late Charles S. Welles, was presented by 

 Mrs. Welles, while Mr. C. C. Deam presented 892 Lepidoptera from 

 Florida and Guatemala. Dr. Witmer Stone collected 612 insects 

 in central South Carolina, and Dr. Skinner some 1,500 specimens 

 from eastern Cuba, one-third of which were Lepidoptera. Numerous 

 local specimens were also collected or presented. 



IVIany specialists have availed themselves of the opportunity of 

 studying the collections, among whom were Messrs. A. N. Caudell, 

 W. T. Davis, Charles T. Ramsden, W. P. Comstock, F. E. Lutz, 

 R. A. Leussler, C. T. Alexander. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry has spent considerable time in the study of the 

 Cirripeds of the Academy and the National Museum Collections, 

 upon which he has prepared a report. With the addition of' dupli- 

 cates from the National Museum received in return for this work, 

 the collection of the Academy is now believed to be the third in the 

 number of species represented. 



Mr. Fowler has cared for most of the other alcoholic Crustacea 

 and lower invertebrates received during the year and has been 

 instrumental in securing a large number of local specimens, so that 

 the collection is now fairly representative of the local fauna. He 

 cleansed the entire series of local Arachnida and Myriapoda, placing 

 them in nev/ vials, which were then arranged in large jars and flooded 

 with alcohol. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has catalogued and labelled the collection of 

 British Crag Fossils. Little has been accomplished in the rearrange- 

 ment of the palaeozoic material which is badly in need of study. 



The recent accessions have been studied, identified, and arranged 

 by Dr. Pilsbry, notably the Vickers-Oberholtzer Collection of Oeland 

 fossils and various small lots of tertiary and cretaceous. Dr. Amos 

 P. Brown has also continued, as opportunity arose, to render generous 

 assistance in this department. A fine group of siliceous sponges 

 from the Upper Devonian of New York has been presented by 

 Dr. John M. Clarke. 




662 • proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Much progress has been made in bringhig the collections in this 

 department into order. Mr. J. A. G. Eehn has cleansed and cata- 

 logued the entire series of mammalian and avian remains and finished 

 the systematic arrangement of all the smaller specimens in trays 

 under the cases on the gallery of the north wing. Mr. Henry W. 

 Fowler has done the same for the fishes which are arranged in drawer 

 cases on the fourth floor. He has also catalogued the entire series 

 of reptiles. Dr. Stone has temporarily arranged the reptiles and 

 larger mammalian specimens in old cases in the north wing which 

 have been renovated for the purpose. This brings the material all 

 together, but new cases will be required before it can be systematically 

 displayed. Material has been loaned during the yesiv to Drs. R. W. 

 Shufeldt and L. Hussakof. 



Herbarium. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown, who has had charge of the collections of 

 plants, was absent for nearly half the year on account of severe 

 illness, but the department was looked after by Messrs. S. S. Van 

 Pelt and Bayard Long, who have generously devoted almost their 

 whole time to the care and development of the local collection of 

 plants. 



The work in the general herbarium has been mainly devoted to 

 caring for the numerous accessions. Miss Ada Allen has continued 

 to do the mounting and Mr. Brown has labelled, catalogued and 

 distributed the sheets as well as identified many specimens for 

 correspondents. 



Through an arrangement with the trustees of Lafayette College, 

 the herbarium of the late Dr. Thomas C. Porter has been deposited 

 in the Academy. It is conservatively estimated to contain 30,000 

 sheets of plants, among which is the series of the Pennsylvania flora 

 which served as the basis of Dr. Porter's State list. The herbarium 

 of the late Charles S. Williamson, containing some 10,000 sheets, 

 has been presented by his sister, Miss Williamson. Through the 

 assistance of Mrs. Beulah M. Rhoads and the Botanical Section, it 

 was possible to purchase the valuable collection of 1900 ferns and 

 fern allies made by Mr. W. A. Poyser, which adds greatly to the 

 completeness of this section of the Academy's herbarium. The 

 Botanical Section also presented 800 sheets of California plants. 

 Dr. Witmer Stone collected 500 sheets in South Carolina and Mr. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



Brown 200 in Bermuda; 1,300 others were received from various 

 donors. Messrs. Long and Van Pelt have voluntarily assumed care 

 of the local herbarium, and some 4,000 specimens were added during 

 the year. Mr. Van Pelt has devoted his time to poisoning and 

 mounting the material, while Mr. Long has done much local field 

 work, critically studied the material and identified and lal)elled it. 



Dr. Stone spent some time in arranging and sorting the lower 

 orders in the Porter herbarium preparatory to having the specimens 

 mounted. 



Specimens have been loaned for scientific study to Messrs. K. K. 

 McKenzie, J. K. Small, Harold St. John, C. S. Sargent and M. L. 

 Fernald. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, Mr. F. J. Keeley, 

 reports that Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, a student on the Jessup Fund 

 during the year has completed the cataloguing of the minerals. 

 Thirteen additions have been made during the year. The collection 

 now numbers 8,193 specimens. The catalogue of the general Acad- 

 emy collection has also been brought up to date and comprises 

 8,508 entries. This collection has been rearranged by Mr. Gordon 

 in trays under the cases in the archaeological hall, in accordance 

 with Dana's classification (sixth edition) , and is thus easily accessible 

 for study or consultation. 



The local collection of minerals was thoroughly cleansed and 

 rearranged geographically. While lacking a number of local minerals, 

 it is good representative collection. 



All the rocks stored in various parts of the north museum building 

 have been brought together and arranged in temporary cases of 

 drawers by Mr. Gordon, following Rosenbusch's system, so that 

 they may be easily consulted. 



Archeology and Ethnology. 



In this department the material obtained by Mr. Clarence B. 

 Moore's expeditions has been placed on exhibition under his direction. 



Two cases were procured for the display of portions of the Wm. S. 

 Vaux Collections, which have been withdrawn from exhibition for 

 several years, owing to changes in the hall during alterations. 



Two other cases were installed for exhibiting portions of the 

 Pueblo pottery and basketry contained in the Gottschall Collection. 

 This collection, comprising about 5,000 specimens, was presented 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



by Mr. A. H. Gottschall, of Harrisburg, Pa., who gathered it together 

 from 1871 to 1892. It forms an exceedingly valuable collection of 

 ethnographic and archaeological material, which strengthens the 

 Academy's department where it was weakest. The greater part 

 of the collection is still of necessity preserved in storage; but beside 

 the exhibit mentioned. Miss H. N. Wardle, who superintended the 

 packing and unpacking of the collection, has -picked out, labelled 

 and catalogued some 350 pieces of Eskimo and northwest coast 

 material. Miss Wardle has had to rearrange a large part of 'the 

 ethnographic exhibition to make room for these accessions. 



A series of 89 European Stone Age artefacts found among the 

 Fourier Collections of fossils were turned over to Miss Wardle and 

 have been cleansed, catalogued and labelled. 



Another valuable addition to the department has been a gift of 

 numerous pieces of basketry, etc., from Mrs. Curwin Stoddart. 



Wither Stone, Chairman. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, IM.D. 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 Henry Tucker. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



Many of the statements heretofore found in the reports of the 

 Sections are now included in the Curators' Report. 



Biological and Microscopical SECTioN.^Eight stated meetings 

 have been held during the year. 



The following communications were made: 



Mr. F. J. Keeley described various species of diatoms, including, 

 specimens he had collected in Florida. 



Mr. T. C. Palmer, besides other communications, described 

 species of diatoms he had collected in Yellowstone Park. 



Mr. Hugo Bilgram exhibited certain varieties of Myxomycetes, 

 which appeared to be new. 



Mr. C. S. Boyer exhibited a new species of Chcetoceros, a descrip- 

 tion of which was published in the Proceedings. 



Dr. T. S. Stewart exhibited various pathological slides. 



Other communications were made by Messrs. S. L. Schumo, 

 J. W. Palmer, W. H. Van Sickel, William B. Davis, and several 

 visitors. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 665 



The following officers were elected for the ensuing year : 



Director Dr. J. Che.ston Morris. 



Vice-Diredor T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer. 



Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Treasurer Dr. Thomas S. Stewart. 



Curator F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — The regular monthly meetings have 

 been held during the year and communications of interest have 

 been made. The proceedings have been published in Entomo- 

 logical News and are therefore permanently recorded. 



At a meeting held December 14th the following persons were 

 elected officers to serve for the coming year: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director Henry W. Wenzel. 



Treasurer Ezra T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Recorder Henry Skinner. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson andE. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



Botanical Section. — Satisfactory progress has been made in the 

 mounting and distribution of specimens in the herbarium, notwith- 

 standing the absence of the Conservator, through illness, during the 

 first half of the year. Additions, which are enumerated in detail in 

 the report of the Curators, have agregated approximately 50,000 

 specimens, of which 2,700 were purchased. At the annual meeting 

 of the Section, held on November 25, the following officers were 

 elected to serve for the ensuing year : 



Director Benjamin H. Smith. 



. Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder John W. Eckfeldt, M.D. 



Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfull}^ submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



MiNERALOGiCAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. — The Section held four 

 meetings this year, with about the usual average attendance. 



A communication was made by Dr. Florence Bascom on Kaolin, 

 and other communications on various subjects by different members. 

 At an additional meeting of the Section, in conjunction with the 

 Academy, on March 23, Miss Mary M. Vaux made a communication 

 on British Columl^ia Glaciers. 



There were five field excursions, with an average attendance of 

 over fifteen. The parties visited: (1) The crystalline schists and 

 limestones between Alton and Glen Hall, in Chester County; (2) 

 The crystalline rocks and their minerals between Hockessin, Dela- 

 ware, and Kennett Square, Chester County, Pa.; (3) The eastern 

 graphite deposits of Chester County; (4) The crystalline rocks and 

 their minerals on the East Branch of the Brandywine, below Down- 

 ingtown, Chester County; (5) The gneiss and limestone near 

 Kennett Square and Avondale, Chester County. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the 

 year 1915: 



Director Benj amin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary S. L. Schumo. 



Treasurer William B. Davis. 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. — The Section has continued to take an 

 active interest in the development of Ornithology at the Academy. 

 The Pennsylvania Audubon Society and Delaware Valley Ornitho- 

 logical Club have been encouraged to hold their meetings at the 

 Academy, and many persons interested in bird study have thus 

 been brought into closer relation with it. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 chosen for the ensuing year: 



Director Spencer Trotter. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts was held December 15, with the following 

 result: 



President. Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D., 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary.J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D.,' 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three 



YEARS Charles B. Penrose, M.D. , LL.D., Ph.D. 



Charles Morris, 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D., 

 WiUiam E. Hughes, M.D. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstman. 



COUNCIL FOR 1915. 



Ex-Officio.—^Simue\ G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., 

 Charles Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 



To serve two years. — Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D., George Spencer Morris. 



To serve one year. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frank J. Keeley, Thomas G. Ashton, M.D. 



Solicitor of the Academy George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



44 




668 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections Frank J. Keeley. 



Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Joseph Willcox. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr., 

 Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David M. McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. 



Morris, William D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 

 Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Library. — George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, 



Thomas Biddle, M.D., Witmer Stone, Sc.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 



Morris, Henry Tucker, M.D., George Spencer Morris, and 



Stewardson Brown, 



ELECTIONS IN 1914. 



Members. 



January 20. — Arthur Howell Napier. 



February 77.— Joseph McFarland, M.D. 



April 21. —io\\n S. Sharpe, M.D., Arthur W. Sheafer, William T. 



Davis. 

 May 19. — Thomas L. Fansler. 

 November 17. — A. H. Gottschall. 




1914.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 669 



Correspondents. 



April 21. — Shibasaburo Kitasato, of Tokyo; Charles T. Ramsden, 

 of Guantanamo, Cuba; Marie Curie, of Paris; N. Charles 

 Rothschild, of London; Gerritt S. Miller, of Washington; 

 Edmund Heller, of Washington; Charles W. Richmond, of 

 Washington; Frank M. Chapman, of New York; Edgar A. 

 Mearns, of Washington. 



November 17. — Alfred Werner, of Zurich; Frank Dawson Adams, of 

 Montreal. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1914. 



Mammals. 



Dr. p. p. Calvert. One Star-nosed Mole {Condylura cristata). 



Thomas T. Firth. Skeleton of Beaver {Castor canadensis). 



H. T. Galbraith (on deposit). Mounted skeleton of Manatee {Trichechus 

 americanus), Point Isabel, Tex. 



Miss Audrey Kane. Skin of American Beaver {Castor canadensis). 



Henry A. McGraw. Skin of Fox Squirrel {Sciurus ludovidanus limitis), 

 Bedford County, Pa. 



New York Aquarium. Skeleton of Bottle-nosed Dolphin {Tursiops trun- 

 catus), Cape Hatteras, N. C. 



Purchased. Skeleton of Bottle-nosed Dolphin {Tursiops truncatus), Whale 



Beach, N. J. 



Chas. T. Ramsden. Two specimens each of Capromys pilorides and C. mela- 

 nura, skins and skulls, Guantanamo, Cuba. 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Disarticulated skeletons of Cynocephalus philip- 

 pinensis and Procyon lotor. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted: Albinistic Porcupine 

 {Eretkizon dorsatmn). Prepared as skin and skull: Toque Macaque {Macacus 

 pileatus); two Northwestern Martens {Mustela atrata caurina); Wild Cat {Lynx 

 ruffussuhsp.); Japanese Bear {Ursusjaponicus); Coney {Procaviasp.); Antilopine 

 Kangaroo {Macropus aniilopinus). Prepared as skin: Young Mahol's Galago 

 {Galago inaholi); Red Coati {Nasua rufa); very young Warthog {Phacochoerus sp.)- 

 Prepared as skeleton: Ocelot {Felis pardalis); European Wolf (Canis lupus); 

 Cape Hunting Dog {Lycaon pictus); Wolverene {Gulo luscus); European Badger 

 {Meles meles). Prepared as skull: two Barbary Apes {Macacus innuus); Ocelot 

 {Felis pardalis); Jackal {Canis sp.). 



Birds. 



H. H. Burton. King Rail {Rallus elcgans), Tullytown, Pa. 



George B. Benners. The Benners' collection of mounted birds consisting 

 of 38 groups and 280 individual .specimens. 



Dr. p. p. Calvert. Two mounted birds. 



Edwin J. Carr. Skin of Red-tailed Hawk {Buteo borealis), Panther, Pa. 



Edw. N. Fox. Least Tern {Sterna antillarum), Sea Isle City, N. J. 



E. W. M ANDERSON. Mounted Snowy Owl {Nyctea nyctea). 



Ornithological Section. 150 skins of Colombian birds. 



William Pack. Two Little Blue Herons {Florida coirulea), Cape May 

 County, N. J. 



Roy I. Phillips. Abnormal Chicken (four legs). 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



Purchased. Skull of Great Auk {Plaulus impennis), skins of eight Geese 

 and two Yellow-billod Magpies, California ; 66 skins of West African birds ; 500 

 skins of Colombian birds; skin of Tetraogallus altaicus. 



J. S. Quick. Skin of Red-tailed Hawk (Bideo borealis), Delaware County, Pa. 



Mrs. J. Saenz. Nest of Bolivian Ovenbird {Furnariiis sp.). 



Dr. R. W. Shufeldt. Disarticulated skeleton of Agriocharis ocellala. 



Archiclaus p. Willetts. Nest and eggs of Prairie Warbler (Dendroica dis- 

 color) ; skins of Shoveller Duck (Spatula dypeaia) and Short-eared Owl {Asio 

 accipitrinus) , Tuckerton, N. J. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Impeyan Pheasant; two Goura 

 Pigeons; one Penguin. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Mrs. W. Ludwig Baker. Shell of Loggerhead Turtle {Carctta caretta); 

 tray of reptile fragments, Osprey, Fla. 



O. F. Baynard. Collection of reptiles, Clearwater, Fla. 



H. H. Burton. Bottle of Newts {Diemidylus viridescetis) , Somerset County, 



N.J. 



Delos E. Culver. Pickerel Frog {Rana palustris), Addingham, Pa.; Toad 

 (Bufo americanus), Addingham, Pa. 



William J. Fox. Tiger Salamander {Amhystoma tigrinum), Ocean View, N. J. 



J. H. Ferriss. Horned Toad (Phrynosoma) , Clifton, Ariz. 



Morgan Hebard. Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica), New Jersey; Marbled 

 Salamander {Amhystoma opacum), Green Spring, N. J. 



J. T. HoLMAN. Young Coluber constrictor, West Creek, N. J. 



Philip Laurent. Two small snakes taken from an American Bittern, Phil- 

 adelphia "Neck." 



Charles Levey. Red Salamander (Spelerpes ruber), Delaware County, Pa. 



Bayard Long. Two young Mud Turtles {Sternotharus odoratus), Moorestown, 



N.J. 



Samuel ]Mason, Jr. Timber Rattler (Crotalus horridus), Stoddartsville, Pa. 



H. L. Mather. Two Salamanders, Peters Creek, Pa.; lot of Amphibians, 

 Melbourne, Ont. 



E. S. Mattern. Two Swamp Tree-toads {Pseudacris triseriatus) , Carbon 

 County, Pa. 



Phil.adelphia Aquarium. Shell of Snapping-turtle (Chelydra serpentina), 

 Lake Copake, N. Y.; (Aspidonectes spinifer). Lake Erie. 



C. T. Ramsden. Small collection of reptiles and amphibians, Cuba. 



Dr. J. W. Ross. Collection of reptiles, north coast of Cuba. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Manning, S. C. 



R. W. Wehrle. Collection of amphibians, Huntingdon County, Pa. 



Zoological Department of Princeton University. Collection of reptiles. 



Egypt. 



Fishes. 



R. M. Abbott. Two jars of fishes, Trinidad and St. Vincent, W. I. 



0. S. Abbott, Jr. Jar of fishes, Hamilton, Bermuda. 



Fred Adams. Lizard Fish {Synodus foetens) , Beesley's Point, N. J. 



Dr. L. H. Adler. Mounted specimen of Trout. 



O. F. Baynard. Collection of fishes, Clearwater, Fla. 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



H. L. Burton. Four lots of fishes, Connecticut and Pennsylvania. 



H. H. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Six lots of fishes, Delaware River tribu- 

 taries in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



C. F. Derby. Small collection of fishes, Brazil. 



William Duncan. Hammer-head Shark (Sphyrna zygcena), Sea Isle City, 

 N.J. 



C. H. Eigenman. Ten fresh-water fishes, South America. 



H. W. Fowler. Jar of fishes, Swan Creek, Md.; jar of fishes, Hackensack 

 River basin, N. J.; bottle of small fishes, Penns Manor, Pa.; three jars of 

 fishes. Perry and Cumberland Counties, Pa.; Larval lamprey (Petrotnyzon), 

 Bristol, Pa. 



E. N. Fox. Sea Robin (Prionotus evolans), Sea Isle City, N. J. 



William J. Fox. Several lots of fishes, comprising individuals of the genera 

 Echeneis, Bairdiella, Orthopristis and Trachinotus, Sea Isle City, N. J.; Young 

 CrevaUe {Caranx sp.). File Fish (Stephanolepis hispidus) and deformed eel 

 {Angtiilla chrisypa), Corsons Inlet, N. J. 



W. L. Hartshorne. Jar of fishes, Pompton River, N. J. 



C. J. Hunt. Three fishes. Lake Wawasee, Ind. 



W. T. Innes. Jar of fishes, Atlantic City, N. J. 



F. J. Keeley. One bottle of fishes, Hawks Park, Fla. 

 Bayard Long. Four lots of fishes. New Jersey. 



David McCadden. Ophichthys ocellatus, Florida; Alutera schoepfii, Ocean 

 City, N. J. 



H. L. Mather. One stone catfish (Schilbeodes), Peter's Creek, Pa.; three 

 bottles of fishes, Montgomery County, Pa. 



H. L. Mather and H. W. Fowler. Small collection of fishes, Bohemia River, 

 Md. 



Philadelphia Aquarium. Sunapee Trout {Salvdinus aureolus); Mud-shad 

 {Dorosoma cepedianum), Schuylkill River; Trout {Salvelinus sp.). 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Two collections of fishes, Corsons Inlet, N. J. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and H. W. Fowler. Jar of fishes from reservoir at Wil- 

 mington, Del. 



Julian Potter and Delos E. Culver. Jar of fishes, Delaware County, Pa. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Burr fish (Chilomyderus schoepfi), Nantucket, Mass. 



Dr. Burnett Smith. Two Whitefish {Leucichthys osmerinus), Skaneateles 

 Lake, N. Y., and Canadian side of Lake Ontario. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Collection of fishes. Manning, S. C. 



R. W. Wehrle. Collection of fishes, Huntingdon County, Pa. 



Zoological Department of Princeton University. Can of fishes, Egypt. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob Aebly. Chama macerophylla Gmel. and Planorhis corneus L. 



Benjamin Albertson. Four marine shells from Nantucket, Mass. 



John A. Allen. Eighteen species of mollusks from Tahiti, Oregon, and Ohio. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Three species of land shells from Brazil. 



Mrs. W. Ludwig Baker. Eight species of marine shells. 



E. B. Bartram. One tray of Ancylus from Belvidcre, Pa. 



S. S. Berry. Two species of Physa from Boar Lake, Cal. 



E. Bethel. Pisidium huachucanum P. and F. from Newcomb, Colo. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



Caroline Boice. One tray of Epilonium. 



Dr. Amos P. Brown. Sixty-eight trays of shells from Antigua, W. I. 



H. H. Burton. Eighteen species of shells from Canada and Pennsylvania. 



H. H. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Three fresh-water shells from Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



H. F. C.\RPENTER. Four species of land and marine shells. 



C. E. Claghorn. One species of Cassis and Mdania. 



Geo. H. Clapp. Seven land shells from Florida, Georgia, and Pennsylvania. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Oreohelix cooperi minor Ckll. from Boulder, Colo. 



Dr. C. M. Cooke. Forty-seven trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



Ella C. Cornell. Twenty-two trays of land and fresh-water shells from 

 near Wilmington, Del. 



Delos E. Culver. Seven species of land and fresh-water shells from Delaware 

 County, Pa. 



L. E. Daniels. Seventeen land moUusks from Indiana and Montana. 



Jas. M. De Laney. Valvata tricarinata Say from Rochester, N. Y. 



J. S. Emerson, Achatinella apexfulva Dixon from south side of Opaeula, 

 Oahu, H. I. 



J. H. Ferriss. Two hundred and five trays of land shells from Arizona. 



H. W. Fowler. Sixty-five trays of land and fresh-water moliusks from 

 Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland. 



L. S. Frierson. Two species of Lampsilis from Cutter, Ark. 



Geo. M. Greene. Gastrodonta suppressa Say from East Falls Church, Va. 



H. A. Greene. Goniobasis and Polygyra from Tryon, N. C. 



John M. Gould. Solemya borealis T. from Portland, Me. 



L. E. Griffin, Corbicula maniUensis Ph. from reservoir in Manila, P. I. 



E. E. Hand. Pisidium huachucanum P. and F. from Evergreen, Colo. 

 Hawaiian Expedition of 1913. One hundred and twenty-five trays of land 



shells. 



Morgan Hebard. Five land shells from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and 

 Texas. 



H. Hemphill. Crepidula plana Say from Sarasota Bay, Fla. 



Junius Henderson. Three land and fresh-water shells from Arizona and 

 Colorado. 



H. C. HiGGiNS. Four Unio from the Blackstone River, Mass. 



Purchased. Sixty-one trays of shells from Guatemala. Collection of East 

 Indian shells; small collection from Santa Marta, Colombia. 



H. VON Ihering. Two species of land and fresh-water shells from South 

 America. 



Chas. E. Jenney. Eleven species of shells from California. 



F. J. Keeley. Physa and Janlhina from Florida. 



Bayard Long. Ninety-eight trays of shells from Massachusetts, New Jersey, 

 and Pennsylvania. 



H. N. Lowe. Ischnochiton acrior Cpr. from Cedros Island, Cal. 



Miss Edith M. Marble. Adinobolus flammeus Mich. 



J. E. Mason. Two red specimens of Littorina littorea L. from Bridgeton, 

 Scotland. 



H. L. Mather and H. W. Fowler. Five fresh-water shells from Montgomery 

 County, Pa. 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



W. G. Mazyck. Thirty-nine trays of mollusks from the eastern United 

 States. 



Dr. D. G. Metheny. Helix hortensis Mull, from Yarmouth, N. S. 



F. I. Meyer and H. W. Fowler. Valvata bicarinata normalis Wkr. from 

 Bethlehem, Pa. 



G. W. H. Meyer. Four marine shells. 



Dr. H. E. Meyer. Four species of marine mollusks. 



Clarence B. Moore. Forty-six trays of shells from the southeastern United 

 States. 



A. Olsson. Polita rhoadsi Pils., from the foothills South Adirondacks, Fulton 

 County, N. Y. 



C. R. Orcutt. Eleven speceis of land and fresh-water shells from Laredo, 

 Tex. 



W. H. Over. One hundred and fifty-five trays of shells from South Dakota. 



A. F. Pearse. Littorina litlorea L. from Nahant, Mass. 



F. W. Pennell. One Ancylus from Chester County, Pa. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and H. W. Fowler. Three species of fresh-water shells 

 from White Clay Creek, Pa. 



Chas. T. Ramsden. Eight species of Cuban land shells. 



J. Ritchie, Jr. Two specimens of CaUochiton Icevis Mont. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Peiricola claciylus Sby. from New Bedford, Mass. 



A. D. Robertson. Sixty-one trays of fresh-water shells from Lake Huron 

 Can. 



Miss Ronaldson. Two species of marine shells. 



Russell Rosenfelt. Pohjnices ampla Phil. 



Dr. J. W. Ross. One hundred and nine trays of land and marine shells from 

 Varadero Park, Cuba. 



H. E. Sargent. Nine Pedens from Florida. 



Mrs. E. S. Say'res. Eight species of marine and fresh-water shells. 



Mrs. C. Schaefer. Two marine shells. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Chcctopleura and Pleurobranchus from Nantucket, Mass. 



Lloyd B. Smith. Thirteen marine shells. 



R. K. Smith and W. F. Clapp. Twelve species of fresh-water shells from 

 Massachusetts. 



Irwin Spalding. Twenty-seven trays of Hawaiian shells. 



E. Stevenson and H. L. Mather. Six fresh-water shells from Melbourne, 

 Can. 



Witmer Stone. Thirteen trays of land and fresh- water shells from South 

 Carolina and Pennsylvania. 



D. Thaanum. Sixty-nine trays of Hawaiian shells. 



University of Wisconsin. Eleven trays of Parlulina from Molokai, H. I. 



E. G. Vanatta. Nine species of mollusks from Bermuda and Pennsylvania. 

 Bryant Walker. Four trays of land shells from Guadeloupe. 



J. B. Walters and Bayard Long. Five species of land shells from Phil- 

 adelphia, Pa. 



W. Y. Webb. Twenty-two species of marine shells. 



R. W. Wehrle. Eleven trays of land and fresh-water shells from near Indiana, 

 Pa. 



R. Wellington. Oreohelix coo-peri Binn from Big Snowy Mountains, Mont. 



Archiclaus P. Willitts. One Loligo from Anglesea, N. J. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 675 



Insects. 



American Museum of Natural History. Four earwigs, Mexico; three 

 Orthoptera, Central and South America. 



William Beutenmullee. Four Rhodites californicus (paratypes), California. 



J. C. Bradley. Four Orchelimum, two Conocephalus; three Belocephalus; 

 fourteen Tnixalincv, nineteen other Orthoptera, Georgia. 



P. P. Calvert. Eleven micro-slides of insects and Arachnids, North America. 



E. R. Casey. Twelve Blatta orientaUs, thirty-one Lachnosterna, Philadelphia. 



Helen Cleland. Hadenoecus puteanus, Pennsylvania. 



Delos Culver. Eight insects, Pennsylvania. 



V. A. E. Daecke. Four moths, Pennsylvania; two Coleoptera. 



W. T. Davis. One hundred and ten Orthoptera, Florida; seven Orchelimum, 

 Pennsylvania and Florida; six Orthoptera, Florida and Pennsylvania; Belo- 

 cephalus sleighti (paratj'pes). 



Charles C. Deam. Two hundred and seventy-seven Lepidoptera, United 

 -States; six hundred and fifteen Lepidoptera, Guatemala. 



H. W. Fowler. Three Gryllolalpa, Maryland; twenty insects, Pennsylvania. 



J. M. Geddes. One hundred Lepidoptera and Odonata, South America and 

 West Indies. 



George M. Greene. Eighteen Coleoptera, United States. 



Georgia State College. Thu-ty Orthoptera, Georgia; four Conocephalus, 

 Georgia; eighteen Truxalino', Georgia; four Tettigince, Georgia. 



E. N. Harvey. Three Ornithoptera aruana, Torres Strait. 



Morgan Hebard. Forty-seven Hymenoptera, Kyoto, Japan; twenty-five 

 Lepidoptera, West Indies and Florida; one thousand one hundred and fifteen 

 Orthoptera, South, Central and North America; ninety-five Conocephalus; 

 forty-three Neoconocephalus, North America; thirty-two Amhlycorypha; sixty 

 TettigincE, United States; seven Truxalinoe, eastern United States; two Belo- 

 ■ cephalus, Florida; twenty-three Orthoptera, L^nited States; forty-two Orthop- 

 tera, Mexico and Central America; fifty-six Orthoptera, North America; one 

 hundred and eighty-nine Conocephalus, North America; one hundred and eighty- 

 three Orchelimum, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; one hundred and seven Neo- 

 conocephalus, North America. 



Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Twenty-eight Tettigina;, Pennsylvania; 

 sixtj'-seven Orchelimum, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; one Neoconocephalus, 

 New Jersey; sixty-four Conocephalus, New Jersey; one Cicada superba, Kerr- 

 ville, Tex.; thirty-six Orthoptera, North America. 



Herman Hornig. Five larvae, Philadelphia. 



F. M. Jones. Two Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania. 



Philip Laurent. Nine Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania; two Hemileuca maia, 

 New Jersey. 



R. A. Leussler. Eight butterflies, Nebraska. 



Carlos Lizer. Forty-two Orthoptera, Argentina. 



Bayard Long. One Orthoptera; five Conocephalus, Pennsylvania; nine 

 Tettigince, Eastern L'nited States; four Neoconocephalus, New Jersey. 



W. J. MacCresson. One Balaninus, Philadelphia. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology. One Orchelimum, New Hampshire. 



Edward J. Nolan. One Agrotid moth, Philadelphia. 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.,, 



Pennsylvania State Department of Zoology. Four Conocephalus, Penn- 

 sylvania; four Orthoptera, North America; four Tettigincr, Pennsylvania. 



C. T. Ramsden. Four Sphingidse; four Lepidoptera, Cuba. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Eight Orthoptera, North America; fifteen Neoconocephalus,. 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Henry Skinner and C. T. Ramsden. Four hundred and thirty-five Lepi- 

 doptera, Cuba. 



Henry Skinner. Twenty butterflies, Cahfornia; nineteen Odonata, Cuba; 

 four Callosamia anguUfera, Pennsylvania; one thousand insects, Cuba. 



E. A. Smith. Three Hymenoptera, one Hemipteron, eleven Coleoptera, 

 Brazil. 



Witmer Stone. Four Lepidoptera, seventy Neuroptera, one hundred and 

 fifty Coleoptera, one hundred and thirty-two Diptera, one hundred and fifteen 

 Hemiptera, sixty-four Hymenoptera, eighty-one Orthoptera, South Carolina. 



University of Kansas. Eleven Melanoplus, Kansas. 



F. W. Urich. One Parutropes phalerata, Trinidad. 



United States National Museum. Eight Orthoptera, North and South 

 America. 



Mrs. C. S. Welles. Five thousand two hundred and ninety-six insects, 

 United States. 



F. X. Williams. Hornia gigantea, Kansas. 



R. C. Williams. Two Pamphila woodgatei, types, New Mexico. 



F. Wintersteiner. Two Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



Purchased. Four hundred and eighty-four Orthoptera, British Guiana. 

 Six butterflies. 



Other Invertebrates. 



C. S. Abbott, Jr. Jar of crustaceans, Hamilton, Bermuda; dozen vials of 

 spiders, Bristol, Pa. 



Benjamin Albertson. Balanus balanoides L., Nantucket, Mass. 



Mrs. W. Ludwig Baker. Five species of Crabs. 



Dr. Amos P. Brown. One crab and two corals, Antigua, W. I. 



H. L. Burton. Lot of crustaceans, Connecticut; mmierous collections of 

 myriapods, spiders and crustaceans, Tullytown, Pa. 



H. L. Burton and H. W. Fowler. Lot of crustaceans, Bucks County, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of invertebrates (crustaceans, arachnids, etc.),. 

 Swan Creek, Md.; several crustaceans, Penns Manor, Pa. 



E. N. Fox. Crab {Arenwus cribrarius), Sea Lsle City, N. J. 



Morgan Hebard, Small collection of spiders, southern New Jersey. 



T. D. Keim. Several crustaceans. Long Island, N. Y. 



Bayard Long. Collection of crustaceans. New Jersey. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Jar of lower invertebrates, Melbourne, Ont. 



Miss R. M. Pierce. Specimen of Arbacia punctulata. 



Chas. T. Ramsden. Two jars of crustaceans, Cuba. 



Alice Robertson. Idmonea californica Orb. 



Miss Anna Robinson. One spider (Epcim vtaminrea). 



Dr. J. W. Ross. Collection of crustaceans, scorpions and spiders, north 

 coast of Cuba. 



Dr. J. W. Ross. Eight species of invertebrates, V'aradcro, Cuba. 




1914.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp. Bottle of crustaceans, Nantucket, Mass. 



John M. Sharp. Gorgonocephalus agassizii Lyman, from off Cape Cod, Mass.. 



Richard Shevlin. Arhacia puncUdata Lamarch, Ocean City, N. J. 



Florence J. Smith. Echinarachnias parma Lamarch, Plymouth, Mass. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. Lot of crustaceans. Manning, S. C. 



H. W. Trudell. Moira alropos Klein, Smiths Island off Cape Charles, Va. 



E. G. Vanatta. Orbicidina adunca F. and M., Fairyland, Bermuda. 



R. W. Wehrle. Collection of crustaceans, Huntingdon County, Pa. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 

 C. E. Claghorn. Fossil fish. Green River beds. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



R. N. Atkinson. Four species of fossils, Table Cape, New Zealand. 



Dr. Amos P. Brow^n. Seven species of Oligocene fossils, Antigua, W. I. 



Mrs. W. Ludwig Baker. Four species of Miocene fossils. 



Bayard Long. Fifty-nine species of Cretaceous fossils, Vincentown and 

 MuUica Hill, N. J. 



Dr. Vickers Oberholtzer. One hundred and eleven trays of Silurian 

 fossils, Oeland, Sweden; fifty-one trays of Jurassic fossils, several European 

 localities. 



Lloyd B. Smith. Thirteen species of Pleistocene fossils, Leogane, Haiti. 



Minerals. 



Dr. Juan Argerich. Geode, Parand, River, ^\rgentina. 



C. E. Claghorn. Collection of minerals. 



Mrs. Edw. S. Sayres. One box of minerals. 



Frank M. Welles. Two specimens of Carnotite, Naturita, Colo. 



Purchased for the William S. Vaux Collection. Thirteen specimens. 



Archeology and Ethnology. 



George Apperley. One hundred and fifty-nine stone implements from; 

 Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Michigan. 



A. H. GoTTscHALL. About ,5,000 specimens representing the ethnography 

 and archaeology of America from Alaska to Mexico. 



Clarence B. Moore. Specimens of stone, shell and pottery from aboriginal 

 sites along the Tennessee River, added to the C. B. Moore Collection. 



Dr. Vickers Oberholzer. Grooved Axe-head, New Jersey (?). 



Mrs. Saenz. Basket-covered water-bottle, Cochabamba, Peru. 



Dr. Simoens da Silva. Celt — Baetinga County, Bahia, Brazil. 



Mrs. Curwen Stoddart, Jr. Seven Makah and California Indian baskets, 

 and a Japanese jinrikisha. 



Miss. E. V. Welt (through the Elsworth Collection). One hundred and 

 thirty-nine stone implements from Kentucky and Wisconsin. 



Plants. 



Edwin B. Bartram. One hundred and nine local plants and two hundred 

 and ninety-two from the eastern and southern United States. 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



George W. Bassett. Bolrychium dissectum. 



C. C. Bachman. Two local plants. 



Miss M. A. Brown. Polygala ramosa, Cape May County, N. J. 



Stewardson Brown. Collected on Bermuda trip, two hundred sheets of 

 plants. 



Botanical Section (Purchased). Four hundred and fifty plants from Cali- 

 fornia; three hundred and thirty-three plants from Nevada. 



Botanical Section and Mrs. Beulah M. Rhoads. Poyser Collection of 

 Ferns, one thousand nine hundred and fifteen sheets. 



Miss Anna Crossman. Two local plants. 



Delos E. Culver. Three plants, Delaware County, Pa. 



J. W. Eckfeldt, M.D. Five local species. 



C. H. EcKMAN. Specimen of Dioyspyros. 



Wm. Findley. Three local plants. 



C. D. Fretz. Twenty-five local plants. 



H. L. Fisher. Alopecurus agrestis. 



Wm. J. Fox. Two local plants. 



Prof. Kline. Five local species. 



Bayard Long. Three hundred and thirty-four local species. 



Bayard Long and M. L. Fernald. Six hundred and twenty-two New 

 England plants. 



Caleb Milne. Collection of two hundred seaweeds. 



C. D. LipPiNCOTT. Cassia occidentalis? . 



Chas. La Wall. One hundred and twenty-two plants, New Jersey. 



J. Mumbauer. Four hundred and ninety-two local plants. 



F. W. Pennell. Two hundred and eighty-five local plants. 



Mary Pollock. Origanum. 



H. W. Pretz. Two thousand one hundred and seventy-six plants, Lehigh 

 County, Pa. 



Harold St. John. Fifty-three New England plants and one local specimen. 



WiTMER Stone. Five hundred South Carolina plants and six local species. 



Benj. H. Smith. Seventeen specimens of Cratcegus and eight other specimens. 



Dr. Max M. Peet. Forty-two plants from Luzerne, Mich. 



Chas. S. Williamson. Sixty-two Newfoundland plants. 



Miss Mary E. Williamson. Herbarium of the late Chas. S. Wilhamson, about 

 ten thousand sheets. , 



J. B. Walter. Three local plants. 



Lafayette College (on deposit). The Thos. C. Porter Herbarium (about 

 thirty thousand sheets). 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



679 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1914. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abramis crysoleucas...346, 349, 354, 657 



Acanthaclisis 622 



americana 618 



faUax 618 



hesperus 618 



texana 618 



Acanthinula harpa 223 



Acanthocharax 252 



Acaropsis iiasa 277 



Acestrorhynchus falcirostris 254 



Achatinidse 430 



AchLrus lineatus 283 



Acilius 549 



Acipenser sturio 347, 354 



Acrjsa 162 



terpischore 164 



Acrseinse 164, 165, 166 



Acratoleon 620,622 



flavum 620 



AcrididtB 388,374 



Adelphomyia minuta 591 



-Epeomys vulcani 11 



^??]qiiidens tetranemus 277 



^schnosoma rivertonensis 606 



Ageneiosus brevifilis 268 



ogilviei 266 



Agriolimax agrestis....'. 224 



campestris var. montanus 370 



Akodon mollis altorum 13 



Alepidophora , 643 



pealei 643 



Alligator mississippiensis 413-425 



Allochrysa boliviana 623 



Colombia 623 



internata 625 



nigriceps 624, 625 



nigrilabris 623 



palliceps 624,625 



riveti 623 



titan 623 



torquatus 624 



varia ' 623 



vigoi 625 



Alopias vulpes 342 



Alosa sapidissima 348, 354, 356 



Amauris 179 



Ambloplites rupestris ._ 352 



Amblycorypha floridana." 398 



oblingifolia 520 



perdita 636 



rotundifolia 520 



uhleri 399,520 



Amblytropidia occidentalis 390 



Ameiurus catus 357 



melas 351 



natalis 351 



nebulosus 346, 351, 354, 357 



Amiatus calvus 347 



Amnicola ,...209,210 



Amnicolidse 429 



Anagenesia greeni 612 



Anaxipha pulicaria 374 



Anchovia mitchilli 354 



Ancistrus hoplogenys 274 



Andesite 8 



Andrena 328 



clavula 641 



grandipes 641 



hypolitha 641 



percontusa 640 



sepulta 641 



vicina 333 



Angara 65 



Anguilla chrisypa, 342, 346, 348, 354, 



356 



Anguis ruffa 291 



Anisitsia notata 233 



Anisolabis annulipes 376 



maritima 377 



Anjsomorpha buprestoides 387 



Anodonta t 213 



cataracta 226 



Anodus ciliatus 230 



Ano?ia 185,193 



plexippus 180, 186 



Anostomus 239 



anostomus 236 



Apatite 4 



Apeltes quadracus 346, 352 



Aphajnogaster 327 




680 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Aphsenogaster aquia 330 



Apis 328,551 



mellifica 333 



Apistogramma ortmanni 280 



o. rupununi 277 



Aplodinotus grunniens 353 



Aplopus mayeri 375, 387 



Apotettix 388 



convexus 388 



rugosus 388 



Aptenopedes aptera 376 



clara 398 



Archonias 177 



Aretha?a 70,114 



phalangium 398 



Argynnis diana 168, 170, 171 



paphia 171 



vale^ina .' 171 



Arion circum3criptus 224 



Aristolochia 163 



Arphia granulata 393 



sulphurea 393,495 



xanthoptera 495 



Ascalaphidse 616 



Asilus peritulus 648 



wickhami 648 



Astyanax rupununi .'. 242 



wappi 244 



Atlanticus dorsalis 534 



glaber 374 



pachymerus 534 



Atlasacris 64 



Atopichthys 343 



Auchenipterus demerarse 266 



Augite 4, 5, 8 



Auriculidse 431 



Bairdiella chrysura 342 



Basalt 6, 8 



Belocephalus sabalis 401 



Berchmansus 625 



Bibio albipennis 647 



atavus 647 



wickhami 647 



Bifidaria pentodon 223, 370 



servilis 431 



Biotite 4-8 



Blaberus atropos 375, 377, 381 



Blaps mortisaga 552 



Blarina meridensis 16, 17 



osgoodi 16, 17 



squamipes , 9, 16, 17 



thomasi....' 9, 16, 17 



Blatta 336 



la;yigata 379 



orientalis 374 



Blattella (Ncoblatella) adspersi- 



collis 379 



gormanica 378, 379, 380 



Blattida; 374,398 



Blennius foxi 344 



Blennius fucorum 345 



stearnsi 346 



Boleosoma nigrum 352 



n. olmstedi 346, 352, 358 



Bombus 551 



sp... 333 



Brevoortia tyrannus 354 



Brycon falcatus 250 



Bulimulida? 430 



Bulimulus guadaloupensis 430 



Bunocephalus amaurus 255 



gronovii 255 



Bythinella 210, 212, 213 



antiguensis 212 



Csecilius posticus 612 



umbrosus 612 



Csenolestes 9, 13 



fuliginosus 17 



obscurus 17, 18 



Calcite 4, 5 



Callibsetis pretiosa 615 



semicostata 614 



Callichthys callichthys 270 



Callistoleon 622 



Cambarus bartonii 349 



Camnula pellucida 498 



Camponotus, 296, 298, 301, 303, 304, 

 306, 308, 309, 312, 320, 321, 327, 



328, 549 



mela 327,331 



pennsylvanicus 296, 315, 331 



Campostoma anomalum 348 



Canthocamptus 53, 55 



Carabus 335 



Caranx hippos 343 



Carpiodes thompsoni 350 



Carychium exiguum 226 



Catoprion mento 251 



Catostomus commersonii, 346, 349, 



350, 357 



nigricans 350, 357 



Ceratiiioptera diaphana 374, 375 



lutea 379 



Ceropales 327 



fraterna 332 



CeutophiUis peninsularis 408 



spinosus 408 



ChiEtoceros 219,220 



compactum 220 



ehnorei 219 



simile 220 



wighamii 219 



Cha;t,()(lii)t(Mus faber 346 



Chalceus labrosus 250 



macr()l('i)idotus 250 



Chalcinus nngulatus 250 



Characidiuni lilciinioides 233 



calciiatuin * 236 



ethoostoma 235 



fasciadorsale 233 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



681 



Chasmocranus longior . . . . 

 Chiloclus lahyriiil hicus. . 



1. i'ui)uimiu 



Chiloinycterus scha-pfi.. 



Chlorite 



Chorisoneura plocea 



Chortophaga australior.. 



cubensis 



virklifasciata 



Chromoteleia 



semicyanea 



Chrysis tridens 



Chrysoleon 



Chrysopa asoralis 



azygota 628, 



breviata 



chacranella 



figuralis 



faceta 



hesperina 



ilota. 629, 



incalis 



isolata 



ktva 



morota 629, 



posina 



tagalica 



Chrysotile 



Cichla ocellaris 



Cichlasoma severum 



Cimbex 



americana 



Circotettix verruculatus 



Cistula ; 



antiguensis 



Cladius pectinicornis 



petrinus 641, 



Cladura 



delicatula 



flavo-ferruginea 



indivisa 



Clinocephalus elegans pulcher 



Clisiocampa neustria 



■Cobitiglanis 



Cochlicopa lubrica 223, 



Colobostylus 



Colomesus psittacus 



Columella alticola 



edentula 223, 



Compsoleion 



Conocephaloides 



"Conocephalus atlanticus 



bruneri 



eaudellianus 



conspersa 



elegans 



ensiger 



exiliscanorus 



fasciatus 



fusco-striatus 402, 



gracilliums 



258 

 233 

 230 



342 

 4,6 

 374 

 393 

 393 

 497 

 638 

 637 

 330 

 621 

 627 

 630 

 628 

 626 

 626 

 629 

 628 

 630 

 627 

 630 

 628 

 630 

 626 

 630 

 5 

 280 

 277 

 327 

 330 

 506 

 426 

 429 

 641 

 642 

 589 

 589 

 589 

 589 

 392 

 164 

 268 

 369 

 426 

 283 

 370 

 370 

 621 

 521 

 522 

 523 

 524 

 492 

 492 

 523 

 523 

 407 

 525 

 407 



Conocephalus hoplomachus ^05, 405 



lyristes 523,524 



nebrascensis 524 



palustris 525 



robustus 521 



triops 522 



Corydia 549 



(Ilolocompsa) collaris 381 



(Holocompsa) cyanea 381 



Cosmodesmus 163, 166 



Cottus gracilis 3.53 



ictalops 353 



Creagris 622 



Crenicichla alta 280, 283 



lugubris 280 



pterogramma 281 



saxatilis 283 



Cryptoptilum antillarum '...376, 410 



t r igonipalpum 410 



Curimata 229 



Curimatus 230 



ciliatus 230 



cypriiioides 229,2.30 



spilurus 230 



Cyclopidaj -...20, 28, 37 



Cyclops 20-60 



albidus ._ 20, 27-35, 37 



annulicornis 27 



ater 60 



bicolor 21,4^,42 



bicuspidatus, 20, 21, 24, 24, 25, 26, 



40,56,59 



capilliferus 37 



coronatus 26, 31 



fimbriatus var. poppei, 20, 23, 

 5.3-55, 57-60 



forbe.si 24- 



fiuviatilis /fS, 48 



fuscus..... 20, 26-28, 30-36, 59 



leuckarti 46 



magnoctavus 45 



minnilus 24, 24 



modestus, 21, 23, 37, 37, 38, 40, 



46,60 



navus 24, 24 



perarmatus '. 48, 53 



phaleratus, 20-22, 43, 48, 48, 52, 



53,60 



poppei 53, 53, 54, 55 



prasinus, 20, 21, 30, 37, 38, 45, 47, 



60 



pulchellus 24 



rubellus 41 



serratus 24, 24 



serrulatus 20, 21, 37, 60 



signatus 20, 26, 27 



s. annulicornis 28, 34 



s. coronatus, 26,27, 27-29 



s. tenuicornis 27, 29, 34 



tenuicornis 34 



thomasi 24, 24 




682 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cyclops varicans, 20, 21, 23, 41,/,/, 42, 



44, 60 



viridis var. insectus 20, 23, 59, 60 



Cyclophoridge 428 



Cycloptilum zebra 411 



Cylindrophis 285,288 



isolepis 288 



lineatus 288 



maculatus 288,291 



opisthorhodus 288 



rufus 286,288,292 



Cylindrotoma 603 



anomala 603 



juncta 603 



splendens 603 



tarsalis 603 



Cynodon gibbus 251 



Cynoscion regalis 342, 355 



Cyphocharax 230 



Cyprinus carpio 350 



Cyrtoxipha gundlachi 375, 376, 412 



Danaida 193,194 



berenice 179, 184, 192 



genutia 193 



plexippus, 164, 165, 177, 179, 181, 



182, 184, 193 



strigosa 179-182, 188, 189, 192 i 



Danaina; 163, 165, 166, 177, 179, 193 



Danais 550 



plexippus 172 



Dasyatis say 342 



Delias 176 



Dendroleon 621 



jaranus 617 



Dendroleonini 621 



Dendrotettix quercus 509 



Dentalium 540 



Diabase 4-8 



Dibothrium ligula 350 



Dichopetala 64 



brevicauda 70, 105, 114 



brevihastata, 66-74, 95, 104, 105, 



114, 115, //6', 124, 130, 138, 139 



castanea, 66-69, 71, 72, 74, 95, 



107,113, 130 



catinata, 66-69, 71, 73, 74, 131, 



138, 139, 139, 141 



caudelli, 66, 67, 71, 73, 74,^149, 155 



durangensis 66-69, 71-73, 85 - 



emarginata, 64, 66-70, 72, 74, 78, 



iO.5, 114, //6', 124, 125 , 

 falcata, 66-69, 71-73, 79, 85, 143, 



149 , 

 gladiator, 66-68, 71, 72, 74, 95, ! 



116,130 



tevis... 68, 70, 71, 105, 115 



masFaiEe 70 



mexicana, 64, 66, 67, 69-71, 73, j 



74,78 

 orececa, 66-68, 71, 72, 131, 139-141 



Dichopetala pollicifera, 66-68, 71, 72,. 



74, 89, 143, 149^ 



pulchra 70, 71, 74, 78 



serrifera. 66, 67, 71, 72, 82, 85 



tauriformis 65-67, 71-73, 143 



tridactyla, 66, 67, 69, 71, 73, 74, 

 149, 155, 156, 157 



Dichromorpha viridis 491 



Dicranomyia cinerea 587 



curvivena 587 



nelliana 579 



pubipennis 591 



reticulata 580- 



simulans 580 



Dicranota argentea 600, 601 



eucera 601 



pallida 599,601 



rivularis 600, 601 



Didelphis marsupialis 17 



m. colombica 17 



Diorite 7 



Dismorphia 177 



Dissosteira Carolina • 501 



Distoleon 622' 



Doras costatus 263 



hancocki 264 



Dorosoma cepedianum 342 



Drosophila ampelophila 336 



Drymseus elongatus 430 



Dytiscus 549 



Echthomyrmex 621 



Eigenmannia virescens 255 



Electrophorus electricus 255 



EUipes minuta 374 



Elliptera alexanderi 587 



Empis florissantana 645 



miocenica 645 



Encoptolophus sordidus 498 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 352, 355 



Eotettix palustris 397 



signatus 396 



sylvestris 397 



Ephemerella excrucians 614 



vernalis 614 



Ephippicharax orbicularis 250 



Epicanthaclisis 621 



Epimys norvegicus 10 



rattus 10 



Epiphlobus 64 



Episalus 621 



Epitheinia ■. 220- 



Ericiida> : 429 



Erioymba buccata 350 



Eriniyzon succetta oblongus 351 



Eriocaiiipa bruesi 642 



oelata 642 



ovata 642 



prist ina 642 



scuddori 642' 



synthctica 642' 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



683 



Eriocampa wheeleri 642 



Eriocera fuliginosa 602 



fultonensis 602 



tristis 602 



Eriogaster lanestris 164 



Erioptera (Empeda) alicia 585 



(Erioptera) dorothea 584 



(Mesocyphonaj eiseni 583 



(Mesocyphona) immaculata.... 583 



(Erioptera) lucia 584 



(Erioptera) microcellula 585 



nigrolineata 586 



(Mesocyphona) rubia 583 



stigmatica 586, 591 



Eritettix carinatus 488 



Erj'thrinus unitseniatus 254 



Esox americanus 351, 357 



reticulatu.s 351, 354, 357 



Etheostoma flabellare 353 



Euconulus fulvus 224, 369 



f. alaskensis 369 



Eucyclops 45, 60 



Eumicrotremus spinosus 360 



Eupatagus clevei 206 



mooreanus 206 



Euploea 550 



Eupomotis gibbosus 346, 352, 358 



Eurycotis floridana 380 



Evania appendigaster 330 



Exodon paradoxus 251 



Exoglossum maxillingua 350, 357 



Feldspar 4, 6, 7 



Felichthys marinus 343 



Fistularia tabacaria 342, 346 



Forficulida; 374,376 



Formica, 297, 298, 300, 305-319, 327, 



328, 549 



obscuriventris 296, 331 



rufa 336 



Fragilaria 220 



Fulgur 567 



cavaliculatum, 570, 571, 573, 575- 



577 



coronatum 570-577 



incile 570,574-578 



pyrum 570-575, 577, 578 



rugosum 570-577 



spiniger 569 



Fundulus diaphanus...346, 351, 355, 358 



heteroclitus macrolepidotus, 342, 



346, 351, 354 



majalis 354 



Furcomyia reticulata 580 



Gasterosteus aculeatus 343, 355, 365 



Geophagus jurupari 277 



surinamensis 277 



GeroD 644 



gibbosus 644 



platysoma 643 



45 



Glenoleon 621 



Gomphonema 220 



Gonatista grisea 383 



Gonomyia 589 



(Leiponeura) alexanderi 587 



(Gonomyia) blanda 586 



(Empeda) caudata 586 



(Leiponeura) cinerea 587 



manca 587, 587 



(Gonomyia) obscura 586 



(Leiponeura) puer 587 



(Leiponeura) sacandaga 587 



slossonae 588 



Gonzaga torquatus 624 



Granite 6-8 



Grapta (Eugonia) 165 



Gryilids 374,410 



Gryllodes sigillatus 375, 411 



Gryllus firmus 411 



rubens 411 



Gymnocanthus tricuspis 360 



Gymnocorymbus nemopterus 247 



thayeri 250 



Gymnorhamphichthys hypostomus, 



255 



Habrophlebia americana 614 



jocosa 614 



Hagenomyia 622 



Halomenia 538-540 



gravida 535, 536 



Hapithus quadratus 412 



Harttia platystoma 274 



Helicidse 429 



Helicina 429 



crosbyi 429 



Helicinidffi 429 



Helicodiscus parallelus 224 



Heliconinae 166 



Heliomyza limbata 644 



Helix hortensis... 222 



Hemichroa eophila 641 



Hemiodus quadrimaculatus 233 



semitseniatus 233 



Hemisinus 210-213 



antiguensis 210, 213 



cubanianus 211 



latus 211 



siliceus 211-213 



Hemisorubim platyrhynchos 263 



Hemphillia camelus 368 



danielsi 367,370 



glandulosa 368 



Hepialus hecta 649 



Heptagenia Carolina 616 



coxalis 615 



subsequalis 615 



Hesperidse 170 



Hesperocharis 177 



Hesperomys minutus 10 



Hesperotettix brevipennis 509 




684 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



IDec, 



Heterocharax 252 



Heteromyiella 645 



miocenica 637, 644 



senilis 644 



Heteromyza senilis 644 



Heterotropus glaucus 643 



Hexagenia callineura 613 



Hippiscus apiculatus 499 



compactus 500 



phoenicopterus 499 



rugosus 500 



tuberculatus 499 



Hippocampus hudsonius 342, 355 



Holocompsa coUaris 382 



cyanea 382 



nitidula 375,380-382 



Homor ocory phus mali volans 405 



Hoplias malabaricus 254 



Hoplolabis 584 



Hoplosternum thoracatum 270 



Hornblende 4, 5, 7 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis 350, 357 



Hydrocynus cuvieri 254 



Hygromia hispida 222, 223 



Hyracodon fuliginosus 17 



Icelus bicornis 359 



Ichthyomys soderstromi 9 



Ilysia scytale 285 



Indoleon 622 



Ischnochiton 536 



Ischnoptera 378 



blattoides 378 



deropeltiformis 378 



rufescens 375,378 



uhleriana fulvescens 378 



Isoperla texana 611 



Ithomiina; 164, 166, 177 



Jasoniades glaucus 170 



Labia brunnea 377 



curvicauda 374,377 



minor 377 



Labidura bidens 377 



Lagodon rhomboides 343 



Lampetra ajpytera 347 



Larropsis distincta 332 



Layahima 621 



Lepisosteus osseus 354, 356 



o. huronensis 347 



Lepomis auritus 352, 358 



incisor 352 



Leporellus vittatus 236 



Leporinus altornus 236 



conirosti'is 236 



dcsmotes 239 



friderici 236 



nigrotamiatus 236 



paraltcrnus 237 



Leptodoras linnelli 264, 265 



Leptodoras trimaculatus 264 



Leptophlebia assimilis 614 



prajpedita 614 



Leptysma marginicollis 394 



Lepus andinus 15 



Lerneasnicus radiatus 354 



Lerneoceropsis septemramosus 347 



Lethotremus armouri 363 



mcalpini 360 



muticus 362 



vinolentus 364 



Leucichthys artedi 348 



Leuciscus elongatus _., 349 



vandoisulus ' 356 



Leucochrysa apicalis 625 



azevedoi 625 



callota 626 



cinctipes 624 



marginalis 625 



submacula 626 



Leucophasia 172, 173 



Leurolestes 379 



pallida 375 



pallidus 379 



Limenitis 178, 179, 181, 188, 190, 193 



(Basilarchia) archippus, 178, 180, 



182-193 



a. floridensis 191 



(Basilarchia) arthemis 178-192 



arizonensis 191, 192 



astvanax 168,190-192 



floridensis, 179, 182, 184, 188, 189, 



192 



hulsti 182,192 



lorquinii 188, 191, 192 



Limenitis obsoleta 180-192 



proserpina 192 



(Basilarchia) weidemeyeri, 178, 



182-192 



Limnas 193 



Limnophila 589 



adusta 594 



albipes 590 



alleni 590 



(Ephelia) aprilina 591 



areolata 591 



contempta 593 



costata 595 



cubitalis 592 



emmelina 597 



fulvocostalis 595 



(Dactylolabis) hortensia....591, 592 



inoniata 593 



insulana 595 



(Ephelia) johnsoni 591 



hiteiponni's 592,593 



nigripleura 592,593 



nova'-angliic 594 



novaboracensis 593 



osborni 596,597 



quadrata 596, 597 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



685 



Limnophila rufibasis 591 



stanwoodae 595, 597 



subcostata 590 



superlineata 591 



Liparis tunicatus 365 



Lithoxus 271 



Lobates surinamensis 346 



Longurio 605 



minimus 605 



testaceus 605, 606 



Lophius piscatorius 342, 356 



Lophopsetta maculata 356 



Loricaria microdon 274 



rostrata 276 



Loricariichthys acutus 274 



griseus 274 



Lucania parva 355 



Lucilia csesar 336 



Lycodaiepis polaris 365 



Lymnpea humilis modicella 226 



palustris 225 



Macneillia obscura 374 



Macrocyclops 26, 59 



M acroneura argentilineatum 631 



fragilis 631 



lineatmn 631 



parvum 631 



picteli 631 



Macronemurini 621 



Macronemm'us 622 



darwini 619 



Macrophyla flavicoxse 330 



Macroteleia 638 



Macroxus irroratus 14 



Magnetite 4, 6 



Mallaspis antennatus 200 



Manomera brachypyga 384, 386 



tenuescens 384-387 



Mantidffi 374,382 



Mantoida 376 



maya 375, 382 



Mazama americana 15 



nemorivagus 15 



rufus 16 



Mecostethus lineatus 494 



Megachile brevis 333 



Megalonema platycephalum 258 



rhabdostigma 256 



Megarhyssa 327 



lunator 330 



Melampus 209,210 



coffea 431 



Melania 209, 210, 211 



Melanoplus atlanis 511 



differentialis 514 



fasciatus 511 



femoratus 515 



femur-rubrum 512 



impudicus 513 



keeleri 374,513 



Melanoplus luridus 513 



mancus 510 



minor 512 



puer 397 



punctulatus 516 



scudderi 509 



stonei 514 



tribulus 510 



Melipona 551 



Meloe 549 



Melolontha _. 335 



Menidia beryllina cerea 355 



menidia notata 355 



Menticirrhus saxatilis 342, 355 



Mermiria intertexta 389, 390, 392 



maculipennis 390 



vigilans 487 



Mesonauta festivius 277 



Mesoplodon bidens 437, 440 



densirostris 437-440 



Mica 5 



Microcentnim laurifolium 521 



retinerve 521 



rhombifolium 399,521 



rostratum 400 



Microcline 8 



Microcyclops 41 



Microgaster 326,327 



mamestrae 330 



Micropogon undulatus 355 



Micropterus dolomieu 352 



salmoides 352 



Mimesa kohli 332 



Miogryllus saussurei 411 



Moenkhausia chrysargyrea 247 



c. leucopomis 244 



Monacanthus hispidus 342 



Monobia 328 



quadridens...._ _ ........333,638 



Monoculus quadricornis albidus.... 34 



q. fuscus 26 



Morone americana 353, 358 



Moschus americanus 15 



Moxostoma breviceps 351 



macrolepidotum 351 



Mus musculus 10, 11 



norvegicus 10 



rattus 10 



Mustela aureoventris 16 



auriventer 16 



Mustelus canis 353 



Mycomya cockerelli 647, 648 



lithomendax 647 



mendax 648 



obliqua 648 



Mylophus rubripinnis 251 



Myocharax 239 



Myoxocephalus groenlandicus 359 



Myi'mecffilurus 622 



Myrmeleon 622 



agriope 618 




686 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Myrmeleon crudelis 618 



heriocles 619 



tectus 619 



Myrmeleonidse 617 



Myrmeleonini 621 



Myrmica rubra 551 



Myxosporidia 217 



Myzomenia banyulensis 538 



Naobranchia pomolobi 347, 348 



Necrophagus 335 



Nematura 209,210 



Nemobiiis ambitiosus 411 



carolinus 411 



cubensis 411 



fasciatus socius 411 



Neoblattella detersa... 375, 379 



Neoconocephalus mexicanus 402 



palustris 403 



velox 402 



Neoperla bolivari 611 



nigriceps 610 



phantoma 609 



plutonis 610 



Neophasia 176, 177 



menapia 172-177 



terlooti 172-177 



Neotettix coarctatus 388 



variabilis 374 



Neritina 209,210 



Nesoleon 622 



Nortonella 642 



Notropis bifrenatus 349 



chalyba-us 349,657 



cornutus 349, 357 



hudsonius amarus 349, 357 



photogenis amcBnus 349 



procne 349 



whipplii analostanus 349, 657 



Nymphalinae 167 



Ochmachanthus flabelliferus 270 



taxistigma 268 



Odontoxiphidium apterum 405 



Odontiira 64 



Odynerus capra 639, 640 



parietum 640 



percontusus 439 



tuberculocephalus 639, 640 



wilmattae 639 



CEcetina parishi 631 



Olencira pra^gustator 354 



Oligacanthopus 376 



prograptus 375 



Oligoclase 8 



Onclus 622 



Opeas beckianum 430 



gracile 430 



micra 430 



Orchelimum agile 5^5 



campestre 529 



Orchelimum concinnum 407 



erythrocephalum 527 



fidicinium 529 



glaberrimum 526 



gracile 528 



herbaceum 527 



militare 407 



minor 529 



nitidum 406 



placidum 636 



pulchellum 407,527 



spinulosum 528 



validum 528 



vulgare 525 



Oreohelix cooperi 368 



Orgyia antiqua 551 



Ornithodes harrimani 597 



Orocharis saulcyi 374, 375 



Orphulella olivacea 491 



pelidna 392, 393, 490 



speciosa 488 



Orthoclase : 5, 7 



Orthocyclops 37,60 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 343, 355 



Oryzomys dryas 10 



minutus 10, 11 



Osmia kirbyana 638 



Osteoglossum bicirrhosum 229 



Pachycheilus 211,213 



conicus 211 



nigrata 213 



violaceus 211,213 



Pachypops furcrseus 277 



Pachypsylla venusta 637 



Palaeoteleia 637 



oxyura 638 



Palseovespa gillettei 640 



wilsoni 640 



Palingenia 613 



Palpares. 621 



Palparini 621 



Paludestrina 212 



Pandarus sinuatus 342 



Papilio 163, 167, 168 



asterius 167 



commixtus 179 



dardanus 169, 188 



glaucus 167, 171 



g. canadensis 171 



g. glaucus 170, 171 



mimeticus 179 



philenor 165-167, 170, 171 



polytes 166 



rex 179 



troilus 167 



turnus 170, 171 



Papilioninaj 163 



Paracosmus antiqua 643 



insolens 643 



morrisoni 643 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



687 



Paxacyclops 48, 53, 60 



Paraglenurus 020,022 



Paralichthys dentatus 342, 350 



Paratettix 388 



meridionalis 388 



rugosus 388,389 



toltecus 370,388 



Paroxya atlantica 397 



a. paroxyoides 397 



floridana 398,510 



scudderi 517 



Paxilla obesa 389 



Pechipogon barbalis 550 



Pegmatite 7, 8 



Pelamys alleterata 346 



Pellegrinina 250 



heterolepis 250 



Perca flavescens 347, 352, 358 



Periclystus 021 



Periplaneta americana 380, 381 



australasiffi 376, 380, 552 



brunnea 376,381 



orientalis 550, 552 



Peria georigiana 608 



xenocia 609 



Perlidaj 608 



Perlodes signata 008 



slossonae 608 



tibialis 608 



Peropyrrhicia 04, 70 



Perrhybris (Mylothris) 172, 177 



Petromyzon marinus : 347 



Phalacrocera 003 



neoxena 603-305 



replicata 603-605 



tipulina 603,604 



Phaiascusa cruciger 616 



hildebrandti 617 



Pharmacophagus 163, 164, 166, 167 



Phasmida; 374,384 



Phassus schamyl 550 



Philanthus punctata 332 



Philenor antenor 166* 



aristolochise 166 



Philonthus seneus 335 



Phoetalia 379 



laevigata 379 



Pholis fasciatus 365 



Phylidorea subcostata 590 



Phyllodromia cubensis 379 



germanica 550 



Phylloicus abdominalis 632 



brevior 632 



Phyllolabis obscura 586 



Phyllotis haggardi 11 



Physa 213 



gyrina 226 



rivalis 431 



Physidse 431 



Pierinaj 167, 174 



Pimelodella cristata 263 



Pimelodella gracile 



Pimelodus clarias 



Pimephales notatus 



Pisidium abditum 



variabile 



Plagioclase 



Plagioscion squamossissimus 



Planorbidte 



Planorbis 209,210, 



antrosus 



cultratus 



deflectus 



exacutus 



guadaloupensis 



lucidus ; 



parvus 225, 



siliceus 



trivolvis 



umbilicatellus 



Plecia axeliana 646, 



melanderi 646, 



plagiata 



Plecostomus plecostomus. 



Plectoptera poeyi 375,376, 



Pleuroceratidae 



Pleurodonte formosa 429, 



Podisma variegata 



Pogonias cromis 342, 



Polistes 328, 



kirbyanus 



nestor 



primitiva 



Polita hammonis 



Polyangajus maculatus 



Polyg^Ta devia blandi 



d. oregonensis 



ptychophora 



p. castanea 



Polymera 



Pomatias 209, 



Pomatiopsis lapidaria 



Pomolobus aestivalis 



mediocris 



pseudoharengus, 346, 347, 354, 



Pomoxis annularis 



sparoides 



Poronotus triacanthus 342, 



Porphyrite 4, 



Potamopyrgus coronatus crystal- 



linus 



Potamot rygon hystrix 



Potomarrhaphis guianensis 



Prionotus evolans strigatus 343, 



Prolabia arachidis 375, 



unidentata 



Proneomenia aglaopheniae 



Protolomat ia antiqua 



Protoplectron 



Psectrogaster 



amazonicus. 

 ciliatus 



263 

 263 

 348 

 226 

 226 

 4-8 

 277 

 431 

 213 

 225 

 431 

 225 

 225 

 431 

 431 

 371 

 212 

 225 

 371 



647 

 647 

 647 

 274 

 382 

 211 

 430 

 506 

 355 

 638 

 638 

 333 

 639 

 369 

 599 

 368 

 368 

 368 

 368 

 602 

 210 

 428 

 348 

 3.54 

 356 



352 

 352 

 355 

 5,6 



429 

 229 

 277 

 356 

 377 

 377 

 538 

 643 

 622 

 230 

 230 

 230 




688 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Pseudancistrus nigrescens 274 



Pseudisotina 64 



Pseudomasaris 328 



vespoides 332 



Pseudopomala brachyptera 486 



Psinidia fenestralis 374, 504 



Psithyrus sp 333 



Psocidse 611 



Psocus semistriatus 611 



stigmosalis 611 



Psylla astigmata 636 



caudata 637 



Psyllites 636 



crawfordi 637 



Pterophylla perspicillatus 52 1 



Punctum conspectum 370 



pygmseum 225 



Pupilla muscorum 223 



Pupillid£E 431 



Pupoides marginatus 431 



Pycnophlebia speciosa 636 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis..376, 380, 381 

 Pygocentrus piraya 251 



scapularis 251 



Pygoprist is denticulatus 251 



Pyramidula (Planogyra) asteris- 



cus 224 



cronkhitei 370 



c. anthonyi 224 



occidentalis 370 



Pyrgocorypha uncinata... 374 



Pyrite 5 



Pyroxene 4, 6, 7 



Pyrrhocoris apterus 552 



Pyprfiulina filamentosa 233 



Quartz 5, 7, 8 



Rachycentron canadus 343 



Radinotatum brevipenne peninsu- 



lare 376,389 



Raja eglanteria 353 



erinacea 353 



laevis 353 



ocellata 353 



Reithrodontomys soderstromi 11 



Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) cau- 

 data 586 



Rhamdella eriarcha 263 



foina... 262 



ignobilis 263 



leptosoma 260 



Rhamdia holomelas 260 



h. rupununi 258 



sebaj 258 



Rhaphidolabis flaveola 591 



noveboracensis 600, 601 



polymeroides 601 



Rhinichthys atronasus 350, 357 



Rhipidia arinulicornis 582 



(Rhipidia) bryanti 580 



Rhipidia multiguttata 582 



schwarzi 581, 582 



(Arhipidia) shannoni 581 



subpectinata 582 



Rhoenanthus posticus 613 



Rhypholophus rubellus 591 



Roccus chrysops 353 



lineatus 353 



Romalea microptera 394 



Salatura... 198 



Salmo fario 348 



fasciatus 236 



Salvelinus fontinalis 348 



Sarcocystis leporum 214-217 



muris 433 



rileyi 218 



setophagse 217 



Sarcosporidia 214-218 



Satyrinse 170 



Scapteriscus abbreviatus 374, 376 



Sceliphron cementarius 315 



Schilbeodes gyi'inus 346, 351 



insignis 357 



Schistocerca alutacea 395, 506 



americana 395, 396, 506 



damnifica 506 



d. calidior 376, 396 



obscura 395, 508 



rubiginosa 508 



Schizodon fasciatus 242 



Scisenops ocellatus 342, 343 



Scirtetica marmorata 505 



m. picta 374 



Sciurus hoffmanni 9 



h. soderstromi 14 



irroratus 14 



Scoliodon terrse-novffi 342 



Scomber colias 346 



Scudderia cuneata 374 



curvicauda 518 



f areata 518 



pistillata 519 



septentrionalis 519 



texensis 374,517 



truncata 519 



Segmentina obstructa geoscopus 431 



Semotilus atromaculatus 348, 356 



bullaris 348 



Seriola zonata 343 



Serrasalmus gymnogenys 251 



rhombeus 251 



Setophaga ruticilla 217 



Silpha 335 



thoracica 336 



Solenius intorruptus 332 



Solvsbergite 6, 7 



Sorubim lima 263 



Spharagcmoii bolli 394, 502 



collare wyomingianum 502 



crepitans 394 




1914. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



689 



•Spharagemon saxatilc 501 



Spheroides mafulatus 356 



Sphinx coiivolvuli 550 



Sphyripna borealis 343 



Squatina squatina 342 



Stagmomantis Carolina 382 



Stenacris vitreipennis 374 



Stenares 621 



Stenobothriis curtiponnis 493 



Stenotomus chrysops 355 



Sternarchus albifrons 255 



Sternopygus macrurus '. 255 



Stigmus universitatus 332 



Stilpnochlora niarginella 374—376 



Stilpnotia salicis 550 



Stiphroneura 622 



Stizostedion vitreum 352 



Stoneiella 271 



leopardus 271 



Striatiira exiguum 224 



milium 224 



Stm-isoma monopelte 274 



rostrata 276 



Subulina octona 430 



Succinea 222 



avara 225 



barbadensis 431 



bayardi 222,225 



chrysis 222 



nuttalliana 371 



oregonensis 222, 371 



ovalis 225 



retusa 225 



SuccineidiB 431 



Suhpalasca orsedice 617 



Supella supellectilimn 375, 378-380 



Surirella 220 



Sycotypus 567,569 



Sylvilagus andinus 15 



a. chimbanus 15 



Sympherobius intervenalis 630 



modestus 631 



m. convexus 630 



Synodus fa?tens 343 



SjTbula admirabilis 487 



Syrichthus malvae 550 



Tafalisca lurida 375, 412 



Tasitia 193 



Taumatopoca pinivora 550 



Tautoga onitis 356 



Teredo 536 



Tetragonopterus argenteus 242 



chalceus 242 



ohrysargyreus 247 



Tettigidea lateralis 389 



spicata 389 



Tettigoniida? 374,398 



Teucholabis flavithorax 582 



rubescens 582,583 



Thamnophis 291 



Thesprotia graminis 383 



Thomasomys cinereus 12 



paramorum 11, 13 



rhoadsi 12 



Thysanophora ingersoUi 364 



subaquila 430 



Tipulidffi 579 



Tirumala 179 



(Melinda) formosa 179 



mercedonia 179 



morgani 179, 180 



Titanite 4 



Tomatares 621 



Trachycorystes galeatus 266 



Trachyte 4 



Tralia pusilla 431 



Trichiurus lepturus 343 



Tricyphona calcar 591 



katahdin 598,599 



vernalis 598, 599 



Triglops pingeli 359 



Trigona 551 



Trimerotropis citrina 394, 504 



maritima 503 



Triogoma exculpta 579 



Triportheus flavus 251 



Tropicorbis 212 



liebmanni 212 



Tropidonotus vibakari 292 



Truncatella 209,210 



bilabiata 426-429 



Truncatellidse.. 428,429 



Trypoxylon frigidum :.... 332 



Tryxalis brevicornis 485 



Tudora 426 



Tylosurus marinus 343, 352 



raphidoma 343 



Umbra pygmaea 351, 354, 357 



Uralite 8 



Urophycis regius 346, 356 



Vallonia pulchella 223 



Vanessa milberti 165 



Vertigo coloradensis basidens 370 



gouldi 223 



modesta parietalis 370 



ovata. 223,370 



ventricosa 223 



V. elatior 370 



Vespa atavina 439 



Vespula 328 



maculata, 304, 307, 309, 312, 315, 



322, 333 



Vitrea binneyana 224 



Vitrina alaskana 369 



limpida 223 



Wattenwyliella 379 



Weelius 622 




690 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Xiphidium brevipenne 530 



fasciatum 530 



nemorale 531 



nigropleuroides 533 



saltans 533 



spartinse 533 



strictum 532 



Xiphocharax 251 



ogilviei 251, 251 



Yoldia 536,540 



Zonites 209,210 



Zonitoides arborea 224, 369 



nitidus 369' 




1914.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



691 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1914. 



Adams, Frank Dawson, elected a cor- 

 respondent, 607. 



Additions to Museum, 668. 



Aebley, Jacob, janitor, 668. 



Alexander, Charles P. New and little- 

 known craneflies from the United 

 States and Canada (Tipulida?, Dip- 

 tera) (Plates XXV, XXVI, XXVIl), 

 566, 579. 



Allen, Ada, aid in herbarium, 668. 



Andrews, Roy Chapman. Notice of a 

 rare ziphioid whale, Mesoplodon 

 densirostris, on the Jersey coast 

 (Plates XVI, XVII, XVIII), 372, 

 437. 



Ashton, Thomas G., M.D., member of 

 Council, 667. 



Banks, Nathan. New neuropteroid 

 insects, native and foreign (Plate 

 XXVIII), 566, 608. 



Barringer, Daniel Moreau. Further 

 notes on Meteor Crater, Arizona 

 (Plates XXI, XXII, XXIII), 556, 

 566. 



Biddle, Thomas, M.D., member of 

 Library Committee, 1. Member of 

 Council, 667. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 664. 



Botanical Section, report of, 665. 



Boyer, Charles S. A new diatom 

 (Plate X), 219, 227. Report of 

 Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 665. 



Bradley, James Chester et al. A 

 biological reconnaissance of the 

 Okefenokee swamp in Georgia, 607. 



Bradner, N. Roe, M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 208. 



Brown, Amos P., member of Committee 

 on Hayden Memorial Award, 196. 



Brown, Amos P., and Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 Fresh-water mollusks of the Oligo- 

 cene of Antigua (Plate IX), 208, 209. 



Brown, Stewardson, assistant to Cura- 

 tors, 667. Member of Committee 

 on Instruction and Lectures, 2. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 665. 

 By-Laws, Committee on, 227. 



Cadwalader, John, member of Com- 

 mittee on Finance, 1. Standing 

 Committee on By-Laws, 227. Vice- 

 President, 667. 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D., member of 

 Council, 668. On epiphytic Brome- 

 ' liads of Costa Rica and their animal 

 i inhabitants (no abstract), 2. 



Chapman, Frank M., elected a cor- 

 respondent, 228. 



Clappier, Charles, janitor, 668. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Miocene fossil 

 ' insects, 633, 634. 



Committee on By-Laws, 227. 

 I Conklin, Edwin, G., Ph.D., Vice- 

 President, 667. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 650. 



Crawley, Howard. Two new Sar- 

 cosporidia, 214, 227. The evolution 

 of Sarcocystis muris in the intestinal 

 cells of the mouse (Plate XV), 372, 

 432. 



Cresson, Ezra T., Jr., assistant to 

 Curators, 667. 



Curators, report of, 656. 



Curie, Marie, elected a correspondent, 

 228. 



Davis, William J., elected a member, 

 228. 



Dercum, Ernest Comly, announcement 

 of death of, 227. 



Dixon, Edwin S., member of Com- 

 mittee on Finance, 1. Member of 

 Council, 667. 



Dixon, Samuel G. Report of Curators, 

 656. President and Curator, 667. 



Elections in 1914, 668. 



Entomological Section, report of, 665. 

 j Fowler, Henry W. Fishes collected 

 by the Princeton Expedition to 

 North Greenland in 1899, 208. 

 Description of a new Blenny from 

 New Jersey, with notes on other 

 fishes from the Middle Atlantic 

 States, 208, 342. Fishes from the 

 Rupununi River, British Guiana, 

 229. Fishes collected by the Peary 

 Relief Expedition of 1899, 359. 

 Assistant to Curators, 667. 




692 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Fox, Henry. Data on the orthopteran 

 faunistics of eastern Pennsylvania 

 and southern New Jersey, 441. 



Fox, William J., assistant Librarian, 

 667. Member of Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1. 



Furness, Walter Rogers, announcement 

 of death of, 208. 



Fansler, Thomas L., elected a member, 

 372. 



Gottschall, A. H., elected a member, 

 607. 



Hayden Memorial Award, 227. 



Heath, Harold. Certain features of 

 solenogastre development, 372, 535. 



Heckler, Adam E., janitor, 668. 



Heckler, Daniel, janitor, 668. 



Heller, Edmund, elected a correspond- 

 ent, 228. 



Horstmann, Walter, member of Com- 

 mittee on Accounts, 667. 



Houston, Edwin J., announcement of 

 death of, 208. 



Hughes, William E., M.D., member of 

 Council, 667. 



Index to genera, etc., 668. 



Keeley, Frank J. Notes on some 

 igneous rocks at Ogunquit, Maine, 

 and Pigeon Cove, Mass, 1, 3. Mem- 

 ber of Library Committee, 1. Cura- 

 tor of William S. Vaux Collections, 

 2. Member of Council, 667. 



Kirkpatrick, George E., announcement 

 of death of, 227. 



Kitasato, Shibasaburo, elected a cor- 

 respondent, 228. 



Knowles, George L., announcement of 

 death of, 633. 



LeConte, Robert G., M.D., member 

 of Council, 667. 



Librarian, report of, 650. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 666. 



McCadden, David M., taxidermist, 

 668. 



McFarland, Joseph, M.D., elected a 

 member, 196. 



Mclndoo, N. E., Ph.D. The olfactory 

 sense of Hymenoptera (Plates XI, 

 XII), 196, 294. The scent-pro- 

 ducing organs of the honey-bee 

 (Plates XIX, XX), 372, 542. 



Magee, Horace, announcement of 

 death of, 633. 



Magee, J. Ronaldson, announcement 

 of death of, 607 



M earns, Edgar A., elected a corre- 

 spondent, 228. 



Meunier, Stanislas. Observations sur 

 la theorie generale des phenomenes 

 glaciakes et sur les Galets stries, 

 566. 



Miller, Edmund, elected a correspond- 

 ent, 228. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 666. 



Mitchell, Silas Wier, M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D., member of 

 Committee on By-Laws, 227. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 650. Assistant to curators, 667. 



Morris, Charles, member of Com- 

 mittee on Instruction and Lectures, 

 2. Member of Council, 667. Mem- 

 ber of Committee on Accounts, 667. 



Morris, Effingham B., member of 

 Committee on Finance, 1. 



Morris, George Spencer, member of 

 Committee on Instruction and Lec- 

 tures, 2. Member of Council, 667. 



Napier, Arthur Howell, election as 

 member, 2. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D., member of 

 Publication Committee, 1. Report 

 of Recording Secretary, 649. Report 

 of Librarian, 652. 



Officers 1915, 667. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 666. 



Osborn, Henry Fairfield, receives Hay- 

 den Memorial Medal, 227, 607. 

 Notice of, 227. 



Penrose, Charles B., M.D., member of 

 Council, 667. 



Penrose, R. A. F., Jr., member of 

 Committee on Hayden Memorial 

 Award, 196. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., member of 

 Publication Committee, 1. Member 

 of Committee on Instruction and 

 Lectures, 2. Description of a new 

 echinoderm (Plate VIII) , 206. Cura- 

 tors, report of, 667. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Amos P. 

 Brown. The method of progression 

 of Truncatella (Plate XIV), 227, 

 426. List of land and fresh-water 

 moUusks of Antigua, 227, 429. 



Poulton, Edward B. Mimicry in North 

 American l)utterflies (Plate'V), 1, 161. 



Prime, Frederick, member of Com- 

 mittee on Hayden Memorial Award, 

 198. 



Ramsden, Charles T., elected a cor- 

 respondent, 22S. 



Recording Secretary, reiK)rt of, 649. 



Reese, Albert M. The vascular sys- 

 tem of the Florida alligator (Plate 

 XIII), 227, 413. 




1914.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



693 



Rehn, James A. G., assistant to 

 Curators, G67. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan 

 Hebard. A study of the species of 

 the genus Dichopetala (Orthoptera: 

 Tettigonidff), 64. On the Orthop- 

 tera found on the Florida Keys and 

 in extreme southern Florida, 373. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 664. 



Report of Botanical Section, 665. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 650. 



Report of Curators. 656. 



Report of Entomological Section, 665. 



Report of Librarian, 652. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 666. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 666. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 649. 



Report of Sections, 664. 



Rhoads, Samuel N., member of Com- 

 mittee on Accounts, 667. 



Richmond, Charles W., elected a 

 correspondent, 228. 



Rothermel, John G., member of Com- 

 mittee on Accounts, 667. 



Rothschild, N. Charles, elected a 

 correspondent, 228. 



Schaeffer, Arthur W., elected a mem- 

 ber, 228. 



Sections, reports of, 664. 



Sharp, John S., elected a member, 228. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D., member of 

 Publication Committee, 1. Report 

 of Entomological Section, 665. 

 Member of Council, 667. Assistant 

 to Curators, 667. 



Smith, Burnett. Morhologic sequences 

 in the canaliculate Fulgurs (Plate 

 XXIV), 566, 567. 



Spaeth, Reynold A. The distribution 

 of the genus Cyclops in the vicinity 

 of Haverford, Pennsylvania (Plates 

 I-IV), 21. 



Standing Committees, 668. 



Stewart, Thomas S., member of Com- 

 mittee on Accounts, 667. 



Stoddart, Curwen, Jr., announcement 



^ of death of, 227. 



Stone, Witmer, member of Library 

 Committee, 1. Member of Publica- 

 tion Committee, L On a collection 

 of mammals from Ecuador, 9. 

 Member of Standing Committee on 



By-Laws, 227. Rei)ort of Curators, 

 664. Report of Ornithological Sec- 

 tion, 666. 



Suess, Edward, announcement of death 

 of, 566. 



Tague, James, janitor, 668. 



Thompson, Joseph C. Contribution 

 to the anatomy of the Ilysiida?, 285. 



Trotter, Spencer, M.D., member of 

 Council, 667. 



Tucker, Henry, M.D., member of 

 Library Committee, L Member of 

 Committee on Instruction and Lec- 

 tures, 2. Curator, 667. 



Vanatta, E. G. Land and fresh-water 

 shells from Eastern Canada, 222, 

 227. Montana shells, 227, 367. 

 Assistant to Curators, 667. 



Vaux, George, Jr., member of Com- 

 mittee on Finance, 1. Member of 

 Library Committee, 1. Solicitor of 

 Academy, 2. Treasurer, 667. 



Walcott, Charles D., member of Com- 

 mittee on Hayden Memorial Award, 

 196. 



Wardle, Harriet Newell, assistant to 

 Curators, 667. Description of a 

 Tsantsa in the ethnological collec- 

 tion of the Academy, with notes on 

 other specimens (Plates VI, VII), 

 196, 197. 



Welles, Charles S., announcement of 

 death of, 208. 



Werner, Alfred, elected a correspond- 

 ent, 607. 



Whelen, William N., announcement of 

 death of, 566. 



Wherry, Edgar T., member of Com- 

 mittee on Hayden Memorial Award, 

 196. 



Wilde, Furman Sheppard, assistant 

 in library, 668. 



Willcox, Joseph. Custodian of Isaac 

 Lea Collections, 2. 



Williamson, Charles Sumner, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 227. 



Winsor, James D., member of Com- 

 mittee on Finance, 1. 



Wistar, Thomas, M.I)., announcement 

 of death of, 208. 



Wood, Stuart, announcement of death 

 of, 208. 



Wright, William Redwood, announce- 

 ment of death of, 633. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. FHlLA. 19 14. 



PLATE XXI. 





/I 



A 6RCAT QUfcNTllY OF jg StLlCA OR ROCK FLOUR 







(XPOitD HAIURALLY ^IN THIS ARROf A . SHAFTaN'XXTl '\ '"■-_^-^ I 



JS' SHAFT«H»XXXiy ^ ^A. 



£«^5; 



yic^l-faP^ 









GRtftlEST DIAMETER Of CRftTER WN.W. TO ES.t. BEING 4^50 FEET. 





'OSlOf^ 



BARRINGER: METEOR CRATER, ARIZONA. 

 Scale, 1290 feet = 1 inch. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19l4. 



PLATE XXtt. 



.-*^5^°^V-rr"' ^J^"' .^ -s - -'".v V 



■'".•b^X'-'-- 4^.-'*"« -v-^-^-.^- ..^■-"v^< 



■"■N . 



'^.^. 





z^- 



^^ 



'SMftU AREAS Of EJtCTEO UMESTONf 

 FRAGMENTS FROM CRATER. 



BARRINGER: METEOR CRATER, ARIZONA. 

 Scale, 1290 feet = 1 inoh. 




i 




PHOC. ACAD. NA'r. set. PHll.A. IHl.'i 



PLATE XXI 



CANYON DIABLO STATION. 



OH THIS R[0OOCD MAP IHL SCAU l5-i2 -ONf Mll[, 

 IHftll5TH{CIRUi5AR[0N[MlL[ARftRT 



NSHINE STATION. 



..^, ^^fllaSFRR. 



METEOR P.O. 



N 



BARRINGER: METEOR CRATER, ARIZONA. 







PRCC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191 'i 



PLATE XXV. 



ALEXANDER: CRANEFLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191't, 



PLATE XXVI. 



ALEXANDER: CRANEFLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. IQl'i. 



PLATF. XXVII. 



ALE.XANDER: CRANEFLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1914. 



PLATE X.XVIII. 



BANKS: NEW NEUROPTEROID INSECTS. 







MHl. WHOl I.IBRAKY 



UH IfiSF F 



7/S4 





