Cr*^ 







PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LXI1 



1910 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1910-19H 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 2, 1911. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1910 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-32 March 



33-144 \pril 



145-254 May 



255-270 May 



271-382 July 



383-430 July 



431-462 July 



463-494 August 



495-534 October 



535-566 December 



567-614 January 



615-694 January 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE! 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox. 



Ed-\yard J. Nolan, M.D. 



The President, SamuelJG. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan. M.D. 



7 / f ^ 




CONTENTS 



For A nnouncements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Barbour, Thomas. A note regarding the Chinese Alligator 464 



Bilgram, Hugo. Unusual forms of Myxomycetes 271 



Boyer, Charles S. Jelly-pores in the Diatomaceae 271 



Bush, Katharine J., Ph.D. Description of new Serpulids 

 from Bermuda, with notes on known forms from adja- 

 cent regions. Plate NXXVI 490 



Colton, Harold Sellers. Modiolaria marmorata and its 



surface film 42 



Cook, Margaret Harris, Ph.D. Spermatogenesis in Lepi- 



doptera. Plates XXII-XXVII 294 



Fowler, Hexry W. Thamnophis butleri in Pennsylvania 149 



Notes on the Variation of some species of the Genus Notro- 



pis. Plates XY-XXI 273 



Notes on Batoid Fishes 468 



Description of four new Cyprinoids (Rhodeinop) 476 



Little-known NeAv Jersey Fishes 599 



Notes on Chimseroid and Ganoid Fishes 603 



Anew Albuloid Fish from Santo Domingo 651 



Fowler, Henry W., and Dr. Richard J. Phillips. A new fish 



of the Genus Paralepis from New Jersey 403 



Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. The Polychsetous Annelids dredged 

 in the U. S. S. "Albatross" off the coast of Southern 

 California in 1904: II. Polynoidae, AphroditkUe and 



Segaleonida?. Plates XXVUI-XXXIII 328 



Nolan-, Edward J., M.D. A BiographicalNotice of Henry Cad- 



walader Chapman, M.D., Sc.D. With portrait 255 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. Stauroneis Terryi D. B. Ward. Plate 



XXXIV 456 



Anew Diatom. Plate XXXV 460 



Pennell, Francis W. Flora of the Conowingo Barrens of 



Southeastern Pennsylvania 541 




IV CONTEXTS. 



PAGE 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D. A new species of Marinula from 



near the head of the Gulf of California 148 



A new Haitian Oligocene Horizon 487 



Land Mollusca of the Panama Canal Zone. Plate XXXVII . 502 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Amos P. Brown. The Mollusca of 



Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs 510 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss. Mollusca of the 

 Southwestern States: IV. The Chiricahua Mountains, 

 Arizona. Plates I-XIV 44 



Rehn, James A. (4. On the Orthoptera of Bermuda 3 



Some notes on Idaho Orthoptera, with the description of a 



new species of Trimeropteris 12 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard. A revision of the 

 North American Species of the Genus Ischnoptera 



(Orthoptera) 407 



Records of Georgia and Florida Orthoptera. with the 



descriptions of one new species and one new subspecies.... 585 

 Preliminary Studies of North Carolina Orthoptera 615 



Sargent, C. S. Crataegus in Pennsylvania. II 150 



Smith, Burnktt. Notes on some little-known Fishes from the 



New York Devonian 656 



Smith, EdgarF. Some Berks County Minerals >. 538 



Southeran, R.. B.Sc. A new species of Enchytraeid Worm 



from the White Mountains 18 



Vanatta, E. G. Bermuda Shells 664 



Walker. Bryant. Variations of Polygyra albolabris in Michi- 

 gan 21 



Wherry, Edgar T., Ph.D. The Copper Deposits of Franklin 



and Adams Counties, Pennsylvania 454 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THB 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



or 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1910. 



January 4. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The Council reported the appointment of the following standing 

 Committees to serve during the year: 



Finance : John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris, 

 James D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 



Publications: Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Library: Thomas Biddle, M.D., Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Henry 

 Tucker, M.D., and Frank J. Keeley. 



Instruction and Lectures: Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, Witmer Stone, and Henry Tucker, M.D. 



The death of Israel W. Morris, a member, December 17, 1909, was 

 announced. 



Henry Leffmann, M.D., made a communication on parasitism 

 in plants. (No abstract.) 



1 




2 proceedings of the academy of [jan., 



January 18. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The deaths of the following were announced: Edward A. Jessup, 

 a member, April 4, 1909; John Ford, a member, January 10, 1910; 

 Peter - MacOwen, a correspondent, December 1, 1909; R. Bowdler 

 Sharp, a correspondent, December 25, 1909. 



Dr. William Morton Wheeler made a communication on the 

 effects of parasitic and other kinds of castration on insects. (No 

 abstract.) 



Hamilton D. Carpenter was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed: 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



ON THE ORTHOPTERA OF BERMUDA. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



In the spring of 1909 the Academy received from Mr. Frank M. 

 Jones a collection of Bermudan Orthoptera which had been secured 

 by him during a residence of some months in the islands. This 

 sending was supplemented later by several others, the whole series, 

 while not large, being of considerable interest, as Mr. Jones endeavored 

 to secure every species seen during his stay, which lasted from Decem- 

 ber, 1908, to the latter part of April, 1909. The examination of the 

 literature on Bermudan Orthoptera demonstrated how imperfect 

 and unsatisfactory was the last summary of the Bermudan repre- 

 sentatives of the order, that of Verrill. In consequence the pub- 

 lished records were gathered together, the determinations of necessity 

 being given as recorded unless the synonymy was well known and 

 established, the results of the material on hand and the published 

 records being incorporated into the paper here presented. 



Twenty-eight species are here recorded, of which two taken from 

 previous authors have only generic reference. A tabulation of the 

 species according to their distribution (omitting the two without 

 specific identification) gives the following results: 



Peculiar to Bermuda 2 



Tropical and subtropical America 2 



South America, Antilles and Bermuda ] 



North America and Bermuda 5 



Circumtropical 3 



North America, West Indies and Bermuda 3 



Cosmopolitan 5 



All America 2 



North America, Bahamas and Bermuda 1 



North America, Mexico, Cuba, Bahamas and Bermuda 1 



North America, Mexico and Bermuda 1 



From this it would appear that the greater portion of the Qrthop- 

 terous fauna of the region is closer related to that of the mainland 

 than to that of the Antilles, excluding, of course, from consideration 

 the cosmopolitan and circumtropical forms, which probably have 

 been introduced bv commerce. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jan., 



The author wishes to express his indebtedness to Mr. Jones for his 

 interest and energy which brought to light the most remarkable of 

 the two known endemic species. 



DERMAPTERA. 

 LABIDURID^. 

 Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



Five adult males, one immature male and three adult females 

 from Paget West, taken December 9 to March 24, have been examined 

 and compared with Georgian and Cuban material of the species. This 

 species has been recorded (as L. riparia) by Uhler, Dahl, Scudder and 

 Verrill. The latter states (p. 827) that it is "not uncommon, occur- 

 ring among debris along the shores, and also in storehouses," Uhler 

 (p. 156) has suggested the probability of its introduction by com- 

 merce. 



Anisolabis maritima (Bon.). 



According to Verrill (p. 827) this species is common under decaying 

 debris and stones at high-tide mark. No Bermudan specimens have 

 been seen by us, and no other author has recorded the species from the 

 islands. 



Anisolabis annulipes.(HY Lucas). 



This widely distributed species is represented by a male and four 

 female individuals taken in Paget West, December 9 to March 30. 

 One female, taken March 30, 1909, has the femoral annuli practically 

 absent. Kirby 1 has described the Bermudan insect as distinct, but 

 Caudell had shown it is not separable from the typical form of this 

 almost cosmopolitan species. 



ORTHOPTERA s. s. 



BLATTID^J. 

 Blattella germanica (Linnaeus). 



Verrill (p. 826) recorded this species on local authority, but no speci- 

 mens had been seen by him. 



Ceratinoptera diaphana (Fabricius). 



Scudder recorded this species from the collection made by J. M. 

 Jones, while the present series contains three adult males, three adult 

 females and five immature individuals taken in Paget West, January 

 2 to May 17. The collector's notes are to the effect that the specimens 



1 Anisolabis antennata, Journ. Linn. Soc. London, XXIII, p. 517, 1891. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



were beaten from cedar trees and the species was found rarely under 

 stones in woods. 



The species is widely distributed in the West Indies. 



Blatta orientalis Linnaeus. 



Included on the authority of Verrill, who states (p. 825) that it is 

 mostly confined to dwellings and ships. 



Periplaneta americana (Linnseus). 



This widely distributed species has been recorded by J. M. Jones, 

 Uhler, Dahl, Hurdis and Verrill, and is represented in the series in 

 hand by a single male from Paget West. It is stated to be extremely 

 abundant during the hot summer months, particularly in old houses 

 surrounded by trees, and Verrill (p. 824) entertains the possibility of 

 its being indigenous. F. M. Jones' note. "Not often seen, perhaps 

 more abundant indoors," may be explained by the season when 

 collecting was done not being the hot summer months, although the 

 suggestion of greater abundance indoors is probably the more potent 

 explanation. 



Periplaneta australasiae (Fabricius). 



Scudder and Verrill have both recorded this species, the latter 

 author considering it common in the fields, under stones and in 

 buildings. An adult male from Paget West and one nymph from the 

 same locality, taken May 8, are before us. The collector's notes are 

 to the effect that the species is very abundant under stones out of 

 doors. 

 Leucophaea maderse (Fabricius). 



This widely distributed species has been recorded from Bermuda 

 by J. M. Jones, Uhler, Hurdis and Verrill. The latter author states 

 that it is very common in storehouses, while Jones and Hurdis agree 

 in considering it less abundant than P. americana. The former of 

 these two last mentioned authors states (p. 110) that it is rarely seen 

 except in cellars and other dark places, and that it is known locally as 

 the "knocker," from a habit of making a noise like a person gently 

 tapping on a box or board. The present collection contains one 

 female from Paget West, the notes accompanying which are the same 

 as those on Periplaneta americana, and which can probably be ex- 

 plained in similar fashion. 

 Pyonoscelus surinamensis (Linnaeus). 



This species has been recorded by Scudder, Dahl and Verrill, and is 

 represented in the present series by two adult females and five imma- 

 ture specimens, taken in Paget West, December 11 to January 24. 

 It is found under stones and considered common. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



MANTIDJE. 

 Stagmomantis sp. 



Verrill (p. S23) records on Henshaw's authority a species of this 



genus in Bickmore's collection from Bermuda. Mr. F. M. Jones 



(in litt.) comments as follows on this record: "The mantis recorded 



was perhaps a stray specimen, otherwise I should have seen at least 



the egg-masses before this." 



PHASMID^]. 

 Anisomorpha buprestoides. 



On Henshaw's authority Verrill (p. 823) also records this species 



as taken in Bermuda many years ago (about 1861) by A. 8. Bickmore. 



The fact that* both this and the preceding species have been unnoticed 



by other collectors, in spite of their conspicuousness wherever found, 



leads one to suspect the possibility of erroneous labelling. 



ACRIDID^J. 

 Orphulella pelidna (Burmei*r e r). 



Uhler (p. 152) has recorded this species as Stenobothrus maculipen- 

 nis, one of its synonyms. Probably 0. olivacea is the species to which 

 the reference should belong. 



Orphulella olivacea (Morse). 



Scudder (p. 43) has recorded this species, and a series of two males 

 and five females taken in Warwick Parish, December 11 to April 18, 

 are now before us. Probably Dahl's record of a species of Orplnda 

 and J. M. Jones' "small yellowish-brown colored grasshopper" belong- 

 to this species. The latter author says (p. Ill) the species is " common 

 on open tracts, particularly where the sandy waste is relieved by 

 tufts of grass." The notes with the specimens in hand are to the 

 effect that it is not rare and found on the south shore of Warwick 

 Parish. 



Orphulella speciosa Scudder. 



This species was recorded by J. M. Jones in 1876 on Scudder's deter- 

 mination, the record being published as Stenobothrus bilineatus, one of 

 the synonymic names of the species. It appears probable to the 

 author that the record really refers to 0. olivacea, a species unrecog- 

 nized at that date. 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linna-us). 



This species has been recorded by Jones and Verrill, and three 

 females from Paget West, December 16-27, 1908, and summer of 1909 

 are in the present series. The two December specimens were the only 

 ones seen by the collector during his stay, the summer individual 

 having been sent him by a friend. These specimens have the median 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. i 



carina of the pronotum lower and more uniform in elevation than in 

 the majority of specimens from the United States. 

 Scnistoceroa americana (Drury). 

 Caudell (p. 330) has recorded this species from Bermuda. 



Paroxya bermudensis Rehn. 



1909. Paroxya bermudensis Rehn, Ent. News, XX, p. 343. [Warwick 

 Parish, Bermuda.] 



The full data for this most interesting species are given in the 

 original description. It is apparently a form which matures late 

 in the fall and in early winter, as search in March, April and May in 

 the section where the types were taken on January 15 revealed only 

 immature individuals. 



TETTIGONID^3. 

 Neoconocephalus triops (Linnaeus). 



Verrill (p. 821) has recorded this species as Conocephalus dissimilis 

 on Henshaw's authority. 

 Neoconocephalus maxillosus (Fabricius). 



This Antillean species is represented in the present series by a 

 single male and two females taken in Paget West, December-January 

 and summer of 1909, and at Walsingham, February 16. 



These specimens are smaller than Redtenbacher's measurements 

 of the species, but otherwise no differences exist. The male Paget 

 West individual measures as follows : 



Length of body 24.0 mm. 



Length of fastigium 1.2 



Length of pronotum 7.5 



Length of tegmen 30.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 18.0 



This is the first record of the species from Bermuda. 



Neoconocephalus fusco-striatus "(Redtenbacher). 



Scudder (p. 43) has recorded this species, and a pair taken in Paget 

 West, December to January, are before us. According to the accom- 

 panying notes the species is not common at that season. 

 Orchelimum vulgare Harris. 



Uhler (p. 158) has recorded this species on the basis of a badly 

 broken female individual. 



Conocephalus fasciatus (DeGeer). (Xiphidium fasciatum Auct.) 



One male and three females of this species taken in Paget West 

 are in the present series. This is the first record of the species from 

 Bermuda, where it is said to be locally abundant. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



GRYLLID^J. 



Gryllus bermudensis Caudell. 



This form, recently described on the basis of a single specimen, is 

 represented in the present collection by an interesting series of forty- 

 one individuals taken in Warwick Parish, in Paget West and on 

 St. George Island, on a number of dates in December, January, April 

 and May. The majority of the specimens are accompanied by habitat 

 data, and the whole series presents some light on the extent of 

 variability in size, proportions and coloration in material of this genus 

 from a circumscribed locality. 



The striking coloration of the tj^pe is hardly equalled in the series 

 before us, although closely approached, but in no case is the extent 

 of ochraceous on the head as great as originally described. Mr. Cau- 

 dell, while in Philadelphia, kindly looked over some of the material 

 treated in this connection and, as far as memory served him, he con- 

 sidered the specimens to belong to his species. It is apparent that 

 the majority of specimens are darker and less contrastingly colored 

 than the type, and it is as evident that a considerable amount of color 

 variation is present in the species. From a type with the head and 

 pronotum blackish, marked on the gense, shoulders of pronotum, 

 borders of the lateral lobes, cephalic edge of pronotal disk and around 

 the eyes with ochraceous, and having the tegmina and limbs rufo- 

 testaceous, the series can be laid in a graduated transition to a nearly 

 uniform blackish type. The specimens from the south shore of War- 

 wick Parish exhibit a constant type of coloration for the habitat, 

 four males and two females from this section, all taken in April and 

 May, having the head and pronotum shining black, with little or no 

 ochraceous and comparatively pale tegmina and limbs. A depau- 

 perate pair from the meadows of Paget West, all seen from the locality, 

 are blackish brown without any pale color, except on the angle of the 

 tegmina where there is a touch of testaceous. The other series are 

 either of a uniform type, blackish brown with a limited and variable 

 amount of ochraceous on the genae and pronotum, or each locality 

 has several different shades of coloration. 



In size we have an interesting case of depauperation in five specimens 

 from Paget West and Warwick Parish Meadows and Warwick Parish 

 without further data, all the other material being of what might be 

 considered more normal size. 



Careful tabulation of the proportions of the ovipositor and caudal 

 femora reveals a variable disparity between the two, and while the 

 correlation with the habitat is barren of results of a positive character, 

 the suggestions are rather significant. The proportions of the females 

 are as follows : 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Caudal femora. Ovipositor. 



Meadow: Warwick Parish 9.3 mm. 9.0 mm. 



« " " 10.3 " 10.5 " 



Paget West 10.0 " 9.2 " 



South shore: Warwick Parish 12.0 " 16.5 " 



« » " 11.5 " 16.0 " 



Inland: Paget West 12.8 " 18.0 " 



« « « 10.2 " 12.0 " 



" 10.8 " 11.8 " 



" Warwick Parish 11.5 " 13.0 " 



" 10.8 " 10.5 " 



" 11.3 " 12.5 " 



« « " 11.5 " 11.8 " 



" « « 11.3 " 12.5 "" 



•• 12.8 " 13.0 



No habitat given : Paget West 11.5 " 11.5 



" 12.8 " 16.5 



11.0 " 13.8 " 



" 11.8 " 13.0 " 



Warwick Parish 10.0 " 9.5 " 



" 12.0 " 15.0 " 



St. George Island 11.2 " 13.5 



tt 



a 



a 



Retabulating the same specimens for the excess of one of these 



proportions over the other we have the following: 



Caudal femora Ovipositor 



exceeding exceeding 

 ovipositor, caudal femora. 



Meadow: Warwick Parish 3 mm. mm. 



tt it u << 2 " 



Paget West 8 " — " 



South shore: Warwick Parish — 4.5 



a it a " 4.5 " 



Inland: Paget West " 5.2 " 



a n tt " 1.8 " 



tt tt a . " 10 " 



" Warwick Parish — " 1.5 " 



u u tt 3 «< " 



tt a it tt j2 u 



tt a a " .3 " 



a a a « 1.2 " 



a a it tt 2 " 



No habitat given : Paget West " .0 " 



it tt a " 37 " 



a it tt a 2.8 " 



a tt a tt 2 2 " 



Warwick Parish — " .5 " 



it it tt << 30 '■ 



St. George Island " 2.3 



tt 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



The series is divided as follows on wing length : 



Short-winged. Long-winged. 



a 9 a 9 



Meadows : Warwick Parish 2 1 2 



Paget West - 1 1 



South shore: Warwick Parish 2 2 



Inland: Paget West 1 1 3 2 



" Warwick Parish 2 2 5 



No habitat given: Paget West 2 3 3 1 



Warwick Parish 1 1 



St. George Island - - 1 



It is interesting to note that the depauperate individuals are all 

 long-winged. 



At the present time it does not appear desirable to attempt to make 

 any statement on the systematic relationship of this species. To 

 regard it as an entity worthy of a name, whether specific or subspecific, 

 appears to us to be a necessary course, but what its possible origin 

 was or nearest affinities are can only be determined by careful quan- 

 titative work on not only this, but also the closely related North 

 American and West Indian species of the genus. Mr. Jones' notes 

 are to the effect thai the species is very abundant under stones. 



Gryllus luctuosus Serville. 



This species has been recorded by Uhler and Verrill, and also as the 

 synonymous dbbrevicUus by the latter author. It is quite probable 

 that these references really belong to the preceding species, G. ber- 

 mudensis. 



Gryllus assimilis Fabricius. 



Dahl has credited this species, but no doubt the reference really 

 belongs to G. bermiulensis. 



Liphoplus krugii Saussure. 



Four females of this species, taken January G and 18 in Paget West, 

 are in the collection. When compared with Cuban specimens they 

 are found to be inseparable. The collector's notes are to the effect 

 that the species is not frequent and that the specimens were beaten 

 from cedar trees. 



This is the first record of the species from the Bermudas. 



Cylindrogryllus sp. 



Dahl has recorded an undetermined species of this South American 

 genus as living in numbers on a gray-leafed shrub growing in moist 

 places. A strong suspicion exists in the author's mind that the well- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



known Liphoplus krugii may have been erroneously determined as a 

 Cylindrogryllus by Dahl. 



Literature. 



1S59. Jones, J. M. The Naturalist in Bermuda. London. 

 Orthoptera on pp. 109-112. Five species mentioned. 

 1876. Jones, J. M. The Visitor's Guide to Bermuda, with a Sketch of its Natural 

 History. London. 

 Orthoptera by Scudder, p. 144. 

 1889. Uhler, P. R. Observations on the Insects of the Bermudas. In Angelo 

 Heilprin, The Bermuda Islands, pp. 152-158. 

 Six species of Orthoptera mentioned. 

 1S92. Dahl, Ft. Die Landfauna von Bermuda. In Ergebnisse Plankton-Expe- 

 dition der Humboldt-Stiftung, Bd. I, pp. 104-112, taf. III. 

 Six species of Orthoptera mentioned on page 109. 

 1897. Hurdis, J. L. Rough Notes and Memoranda relating to the Natural History 

 of the Bermudas. 

 Notes on three species of Orthoptera on pp. 326-327. 

 1897. Scudder, S. H. [Xote on Bermuda Orthoptera.] Psyche, VIII, p. 43. 

 Six species listed. 



1902. Verrill, A. E. The Bermuda Islands: Their Scenery, Climate, Produc- 



tions, Physiography, Natural History and Geology; with sketches of their 

 Early History and the changes due to Man. Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts 

 and Sci., XI, pt. II. 

 Orthoptera on pp. 821-828. Eighteen species recorded with more or less 

 certainty. 



1903. Caudell, A. N. Notes on the Orthoptera of Bermuda, with the Descrip- 

 tion of a New Species. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V, pp. 329-331. 



Thirteen species mentioned. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



SOME NOTES ON IDAHO ORTHOPTERA., WITH THE DESCRIPTION OF A NEW 



SPECIES OF TRIMEROTROPIS. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHX. 



The following notes and records are based on a small but interesting 

 collection of Orthoptera made in the month of July at Springfield, 

 Bingham County, Idaho, by Dr. Henry Skinner. One of the most 

 interesting species in the collection is Trimcrotropis rebellis Saussure. 

 a form which stood on our lists as a species unrecognized in American 

 collections for several decade^. 



MANTIDiE. 

 Litaneutria minor (Scudder). 



One female. 



This is the first exact record of the species from Idaho, Scudder's 

 only record from that State being "Southern Idaho," taken from 

 Bruner's record of " Ameles sp." 



AORIDIDiE. 

 Cordillaoris affinis Morse. 



Four females. July '_'."). 



These specimens agree with the characters given by Morse for sepa- 

 rating tnis species from C. occipitalis, and in addition the species is 

 seen to differ in the narrower interspace between the eyes. This 

 species was described from Ormsby County. Nevada, and is here 

 recorded from outside that State for the first time. 



Stirapleura delioatula (Scudder). 



One female. July 25. 



This is the first Idaho record of the species. 



Hippiscus neglectus (Thomas). 



One female. July 25. 



This specimen lacks the pale line along the posterior anal vein seen 

 in some individuals. 



Hippiscus validus Scudder. 



Two females. July 24. 



These specimens have the tegmina several millimeters longer than 

 the measurement given by Scudder for the species, which was de- 

 scribed from Blaine County, Idaho, and also exhibit other minor 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



differences; but inasmuch as the specimens show considerable indi- 

 vidual variation in themselves, it appears preferable to regard the 

 material in hand as validus, at least until further information is avail- 

 able. 



Conozoa wallula Scudder. 



One female. July 25. 

 Trimerotropis rebellis Saussure. 



Two males, one female. One dated July 25. 



These specimens fully agree with the original description of the 

 species which was described from California. Rehn and Hebard's 

 T. bilobata is the closest relative of this species, differing, however, in 

 the characters given in the diagnosis of their species. 



Trimerotropis gracilis (Thomas). 



One female. 



This species has been recorded from Birch Creek, Idaho. 



Trimerotropis arenaceus n. sp. 



Types : cT and 9 ; Springfield, Bingham County, Idaho. July 25, 

 1906. (Henry Skinner) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,] 



Related to T. albolineata Bruner and T. cristata McNeill, with 

 specimens of both of which it has been compared, differing from both 

 in the more robust build, the glaucous caudal tibiae and the suppression 

 of the dark dorsal bar on the entire length of the lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum. The general color is much like that of Trimerotropis 

 maritima interior, but the pronotal crest is very much more decided 

 than in that race. 



Size slightly less than the average for the genus ; 

 form moderately slender; surface of the body more 

 or less distinctly punctate except for the glab- 

 rous venter of the thorax and abdomen. Head 

 with the occiput and interocular region strongly 

 arcuate and distinctly elevated dorsad of the 

 disk of the pronotum, the interspace between the 

 eyes being hardly (d 1 ) or distinctly (?) broader Fig. 1.— Trimerotro- 



than twice the width of the basal antennal joint; ^ s a J' er ^ ace ^ s n - 



" sp. Lateral out- 



fastigium nearly half again as long as broad, line of head and 



decidedly excavate with a low medio-longitudinal pronotum of male 



. . type. ( x 3.) 



carina, lateral carina) well elevated, the depression 



extending caudad to between the eyes and not markedly delimited from 



the occiput, cephalad separated more or lass distinctly by a V-shaped 



carina from the frontal costa; lateral forveolse distinct, impressed, tri- 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



gonal; frontal costa compressed dorsad of the insertion of the antennae, 

 expanding between the antenna?, very slightly constricted ventrad of the 

 ocellus and thence expanding to the clypeal suture, moderately sulcate 

 for a short distance ventrad of the ocellus, slightly sulcate dorsad of the 

 same; eyes quite (c?) or moderately (9) prominent, in length about 

 equal to (J 1 ) or slightly shorter than (9) the infraocnlar sulcus; 



Fig. 2. — Trimerotropis arenaceus n. sp. Dorsal view of female type. ( X 2.) 



antenna? distinctly exceeding the head and pronotum in length. Pro- 

 notum with the greatest dorsal width about equal to the greatest 

 length; median carina distinctly elevated and cristate on theprozona, 

 divided rather deeply into two lobes of which the cephalic is twice 

 the length of the caudal, although but slightly higher than the caudal, 

 the outlines of the lobes being rounded, except for the caudal por- 

 tion of the margin of the cephalic lobe which is subangulate, varying 

 in the two types, median carina distinct on the metazona, but not 

 elevated except cephalad; lateral angles distinct, irregular cephalad, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



carinate on the cephalic portions of both the prozona and meta- 

 zona; cephalic margin broadly obtuse-angulate, caudal margin slightly 

 obtuse-angulate, metazona about one and one-half times the length 

 of the prozona; lateral lobes deeper than long, subequal in width, 

 ventral margin oblique, the ventro-caudal margin rounded, ventrad 

 with a very blunt and low process. Tegmina exceeding the apex of 

 the abdomen by about ( 9 ) or nearly (cT) the length of the head and 

 pronotum together, rather slender, the greatest width contained 

 about five and one-half times in the length, the apex oblique rotundato- 

 truncate. Wings rather narrow, the greatest width very slightly more 

 than half the length. Caudal femora of medium build, the ventral 

 carina hardly arcuate and not produced; caudal tibiae with eight to 

 nine spines on the external margin. 



General color very pale pinkish ochraceous, becoming yellowish on 

 the abdomen and venter, the overlying markings being dull, burnt 

 umber. Head with the occiput obscurely mottled, the gense pale but 

 clouded with pale bluish and the carina? beaded with the darker color, 

 a faintly indicated transverse bar indicated by very weak clouds and 

 clustered beading on the carina? being present immediately ventrad of 

 the antenna? and another midway between this and thesutural margin; 

 eyes raw sienna; antenna? regularly annulate umber and pinkish, the 

 annulations .usually occupying a whole joint each . Pronotum uniformly 

 st ippled with the umber dorsad the lateral lobes with the metazona nearly 

 uniform with the dorsum, the prozona with two longitudinal umber bands, 

 one dorsad and the other mesad, the area between pale, a more or less 

 distinct hoary white spot present about in the middle of the lateral 

 lobes. Tegmina with the punctations of umber grouped irregularly into 

 a median and one or two proximal groups, very poorly defined and 

 limited almost entirely to the discoidal field, the distal half occa- 

 sionally (d* type) with an additional small irregular group indication 

 and always with distinct infuscation of the longitudinal veins, infuscate 

 cross veins in some cases forming contrasting cells. Wings with the 

 proximal half pale greenish yellow, the apical portion hyaline with 

 the principal veins blackish brown; transverse bar blackish brown 

 varying some in intensity, narrow, in no case solid but always with 

 the vein infuscation giving the body to the bar, nearly or quite reaching 

 the caudal margin but not continued on it toward the internal margin; 

 spur rather broad, reaching halfway to the base of the wing, separated 

 by a very narrow hyaline area from the wing band. Cephalic and 

 median limbs annulate more or less distinctly by clouds and bead 

 grouping on the carina?. Caudal femora with four distinct black 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



areas on the internal face, one proximal, one distal, one premedian, 

 one postmedian, the base color here pale greenish yellow, external 

 face with two more or less distinct oblique bands, dorsal face with 

 the bars of the internal face continued more or less distinctly upon it, 

 ventral face dull yellowish with a distinct preapical black band and 

 occasionally ( 9 type) a median one is more or less distinctly indi- 

 cated; caudal tibiae glaucous, cream colored proximad with the gen- 

 icular section blackish on the internal face, spines with their apical 

 halves black; caudal tarsi pinkish_ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



& 9 



Length of body 20.5 mm. 27.0 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.0 " 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen 21.5 " 29.0 " 



Length of caudal femur 11.5 " 15.0 " 



A series of five male and three female paratypes have also been 

 examined. These exhibit a slight amount of variation in size and an 

 appreciable amount of difference in the intensity of the depth and size 

 of the tegminal color blotches and in the intensity of the femoral 

 bars. The wing bar is variable in intensity, but not in position or 

 extent, and the general pale color varies only in two lines, i.e., one 

 toward a more pinkish type, the other toward a more distinctly ochra- 

 ceous shade. The dorsal section of the frontal costa is distinctly sulcate 

 in the majority of the paratypic males, but this is not nearly so apparent 

 in the females. In one of the few specimens in which a median blackish 

 spot is present on the ventral sulcus of the caudal femora it extends 

 distinctly toward the base. 

 Trimerotropis laticinota Saussure. 



One female. July 25. 



This specimen has the left tegmen considerably aborted, its length 

 being but three-fourths that of the normal right one. 



Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder. 



Ten males, fourteen females. Several dated July 25, remainder 

 not dated. 



One specimen has the head, thorax and abdomen hoary, while the 

 majority of the series are slightly darker and more contrasted in 

 coloration than the usual type, the markings being blackish brown. 



Circotettix oarolinianus (Thomas). 

 Three males, one female. July 25. 

 These specimens are similar in size to a pair from Soda Springs, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Idaho. In two of the males which are spread the wings are without 

 infuscation except along the radiate veins. 



TETTIGONIDiE. 

 Idiostatus variegata Caudell. 



Two females. 



The type material of this species consisted of a single female taken 

 at Pocatello, Idaho, which remained unique until the present time. 

 The measurements of the caudal femora and ovipositor of the Spring- 

 field specimens are as follows: 



Length of caudal femora 19.5 mm. 22.5 mm. 



Length of ovipositor 18.5 " 18.2 " 



Stenopelmatus fasciatus Thomas. 



Two females. 



2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



A NEW SPECIES OF ENCHYTRJEID WORM FROM THE WHITE MOUNTAINS. 



BY R. SOUTHERN, B.SC. 



In the late summer of 1907, after the meeting of the International 

 Zoological Congress at Boston, Dr. Scharff visited the White Moun- 

 tains in New Hampshire. He informs me that earthworms were 

 very rarely met with in the forests at elevations of 2,000-3,000 feet, 

 but he succeeded in finding a few specimens of Helodrilus (Dendro- 

 bcena) rubidus Savigny, forma typica, under the bark of trees. The 

 typical form of this species has not yet been recorded with certainty 

 from North America. Michaelsen, in 1900/ doubtfully includes North 

 America, but later 2 he confines its distribution to Europe and Asia. 

 The variety subrubicunda (Eisen) is widely distributed over the whole 

 Northern Hemisphere. The typical form is endemic in the British 

 Isles, Germany, France, Switzerland, Siberia and Iceland. Its 

 occurrence on the latter island and on the eastern side of North 

 America is interesting with reference to theories of a former land 

 connection between Europe and North America by way of Iceland 

 and Greenland. 3 After a close examination of the American speci- 

 mens, I was unable to find a single character distinguishing them from 

 the same species, which occurs commonly in Ireland. 



In some damp moss, in which Dr. Scharff brought back some living 

 slugs and newts from the White Mountains at an elevation of 2,000 

 feet, I found a single mature specimen of an Enchytrseid worm which 

 appears to be new to science, and for which I propose the name 



Henlea scharffi sp. n. 



It is 10 mm. long, and milky-white in color. The epidermis of the 

 prostomium and first segment is covered with small glandular papillae. 

 The clitellum is formed by a mosaic of large granular glands, and 

 occupies the 12th segment. In the anterior ventral bundles there 

 are 5 seta?, which are approximately equal in length, slightly curved, 



1 Das Tierreich, Oligochceta, Lief. 10, 1900, p. 490. 



2 Die Geographische Yerbreitung der Oligochceten, Berlin, 1903, p. 140. 



3 R. F. Scharff, On the Evidences of a Former Land-bridge between Northern 

 Europe and North America, Proc. Royal Irish Academy, Vol. XXVIII, B, 1909, 

 p. 1. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



19 



and widely separated at the base. The head-pore is situated between 

 the prostomium and first segment. 



The brain (fig. 1) is concave before and behind. The length exceeds 

 the breadth, and the greatest breadth is near the posterior end. No 

 salivary glands were observed. The ccelomic corpuscles are large, 

 flat, broadly oval to circular disks. 



.The intestine widens out somewhat gradually at the beginning of 

 the 9th segment. There are no intestinal pouches. The dorsal 

 vessel rises in the 9th segment, and the blood is colorless. Three 

 pairs of septal glands are present in the 4th, 5th and 6th segments. 



The nephridia (fig. 2) have a large anteseptal, somewhat longer 

 than broad. The postseptal is 2 to 3 times as long, and the duct, 



Fig. 1. — Henlea scharffi sp. n. The brain. 



Fig. 2. — The nephridium. 



Fig. 3. — The spermatheea. 



Fig. 4. — The spermatheea seen through the body of the worm. 



which equals the postseptal in length, rises from the anterior end. 

 The spermathecae, which lie in the 5th segment, are long and slender, 

 showing no differentiation into duct and ampulla (figs. 3 and 4). The 

 opening to the exterior is surrounded by a large rosette of glands. 

 Fig. 4 shows this from the inside. 



This description is very inadquate, owing to the lack of material, 

 but sufficient was seen to differentiate this form from all other species 

 of the genus. H. scharffi is characterized by the structure of the ne- 

 phridia and spermathecae, the number of setae, the place of origin of 

 the dorsal vessel, and the absence of salivary glands and intestinal 

 pouches. 



This species falls into that somewhat unsatisfactory section of the 

 genus which is characterized by the absence of intestinal pouches. 

 This group includes: 



1. Henlea dicksoni (Eisen). 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



2. H. rosai Bretscher. 



3. H. pratorum Br. 



4. H. sulcata Br. 



5. //. lefroyi Beddard. 



6. H. dorsalis Br. 



7. H. rhcetica Br. 



8. H. st oil i Br. 



None of these species have yet been recorded from North America. 

 They may be separated as follows: 



1. Salivary glands \ P**"* 2 ' 



• E \ absent 6. 



2. No sharp distinction between oesophagus and intestine H. lefroyi. 



Very sharp distinction between oesophagus and intestine 3. 



3. Nephridial duct rises at the front end of the postseptal....//. dicksoni. 

 Nephridial duct rises at the back end of the postseptal 4. 



4. Dorsal vessel rises in the 8th segment H. rosai. 



Dorsal vessel rises in the 7th segment 5. 



5. Nephridia with broad anteseptal H. pratorum. 



Nephridia with small anteseptal H. sulcata. 



6. Swelling of gut in the 8th segment 7. 



No swelling of gut in the 8th segment 8. 



7. Setae of anterior ventral bundles 4-6 H. dorsalis. 



Setae of anterior ventral bundles 6-8 H. rhcetica. 



8. Spermathecae uniform in width; dorsal vessel rising in the 



9th segment H. scharffi. 



Spermathecae differentiated into duct and ampulla; dorsal 



vessel rising in the 8th segment H. stolli. 



Members of this genus are characterized by the sudden change in 

 diameter of the gut, where the oesophagus passes into the middle 

 intestine, and by the frequent presence at this point of intestinal 

 outgrowths or pouches. In H. scharffi these pouches are absent 

 and the change in diameter is gradual, and is spread over half a seg- 

 ment. In this feature it bears some resemblance to the species 

 H. lefroyi, described by Beddard 4 from India. In the latter species 

 Beddard — working on preserved material — found that the oesophagus 

 passed without any abrupt change in dimensions into the middle 

 gut. The two species also resemble each other in being without 

 the intestinal pouches. The genus Henlea includes a somewhat 

 heterogenous assembly of species, and will probably be found to 

 contain several distinct generic types. However, the present 

 species may be placed provisionally in this genus. 



The type-specimen is preserved in the Irish National Museum, 

 Dublin. 



* Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1905, II, pp. 61-64. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



VARIATION OF POLYGYRA ALBOLABRIS IN MICHIGAN. 

 BY BRYANT WALKER. 



Polygyra albolabris Say is not only the largest, but one of the most 

 abundant and widely distributed species of the genus. It inhabits 

 the whole of the Eastern States and Canada, ranging north to the 

 Saskatchewan, south to Florida and west to Nebraska, Kansas and 

 Texas. It may be fairly said to be the characteristic land snail of 

 the region. 



In view of the enormous extent of territory which it occupies, and 

 the very diverse environmental conditions to which it is subjected, 

 it would naturally be expected to show a very considerable range of 

 variation. This Is true particularly in the Southern States, where 

 in the southeast two well-marked varieties {major Binn. and fusco- 

 labris Pils.) have been developed, and in the southwest a third (allcni 

 Weth.), which practically replaces the typical form west of the Missis- 

 sippi from Missouri to Texas. 



In the region north of the valley of the Tennessee River and east 

 of the Mississippi, however, the typical form is everywhere present 

 and, except in size and contour, presents no substantial variation. 



Barring var. dentata Tryon, a dentate form, and var. fusca Billings, 

 a color variation, which do not come within the province of this paper, 

 the only varieties to receive recognition have been based mainly on 

 size. There have been three of these to appear in the literature, of 

 which only one has been fully described, viz.: var. mariiima Pils. 1 

 from the New Jersey coast. Var. minor Sterki 2 from New Philadel- 

 phia, O., is simply stated to be "a peculiar, small, thin-shelled form." 

 While var. traversensis Leach 3 was never described at all, but was a 

 MSS. name attached to a small form collected by Leach near Traverse 

 City, Michigan, which is stated by Pilsbry 4 to be "scarcely distin- 

 guishable" from var. mariiima. 



In the preparation of the writer's Illustrated Catalogue of the Mollusca 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 283. 



2 L. and F. W. Mollusks of New Philadelphia, O. (1S94). The var. minor of 

 Wetherbv (1881) and of Sampson (1893) are referred to var. allcni Weth. by 

 Pilsbrv, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903. p. 197. 



3 Manual of Conch., IX, p. 76 (1894). 



4 Cat. Land Shells of Am. (1898). 




22 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



of Michigan, the fact of these references to a small form of Polygyra 

 albolabris raised a question as to whether there was really a small 

 race in Michigan worthy of varietal distinction or not, and led to the 

 investigation, the results of which are embodied in this paper. 



The material used consisted of 511 specimens, contained in six 

 distinct sets as follows: 



Fig. 1. 



I. Two hundred and twenty-five specimens, representing the writer's 

 collection of Michigan albolabris. These shells are from all parts of 

 the State. It contains 53 separate lots, varying from 1 to 11 in number, 

 from 38 of the S3 counties of the State. The accompairying chart 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



shows the various counties represented in the collection, and the 

 larger figures the total number of specimens from each county. While 

 an inspection of this chart shows a lamentably large number of coun- 

 ties wholly unrepresented, it is to be borne in mind that the physical 

 conditions of Michigan are much more uniform than in many other 

 States where there is a greater diversity of surface, and that, therefore, 

 as far as they go the specimens from the region south of the Saginaw- 

 Grand Valley may be fairly considered as representative of all the 

 counties in that district; the shells from the Grand Traverse region 

 as of those characteristic of the sandy plains of the northern part of 

 the Lower Peninsula, and those from the Upper Peninsula as repre- 

 sentative of that region. 



The small number of specimens from so large an area is, of course, 

 unfortunate, but that could not be helped. 



In considering the results of a study of this series, it is necessary 

 to bear in mind the manner in which it has been accumulated. It 

 is not an entirely "unprejudiced" series of specimens, i.e., it does 

 not include in every instance all the specimens that were collected at 

 the locality represented. The collection in this particular may be 

 divided into three classes: 



1. A very considerable number of sets, mostly small in number of 

 individuals, which are all the specimens that were collected at the 

 particular place represented. 



2. Sets received from correspondents, which were, no doubt, selected 

 from a more or less extensive series of duplicates. 



3. Sets collected by myself and selected from a larger number of 

 specimens. In such cases it has always been my intention to preserve 

 a representative series, consisting of the extreme forms and a fair 

 representation of what appeared at the time to be average specimens. 

 But, of course, the proportion of extreme specimens would be largely 

 in excess of what it would be had the whole series been retained. 



In view, therefore, of the very large proportion of selected speci- 

 mens included in the series, it would seem likely that the series as a 

 whole would give results, especially as to size, that would be in excess 

 of that obtained from an entirely unprejudiced series. 



II. One hundred and twenty-four specimens from Isle Royale, 

 Lake Superior, Mich., collected by the University of Michigan Expe- 

 dition in 1906. This series includes all the specimens collected on 

 the island. The number of specimens was so much larger than the 

 series from any other Michigan locality that it was deemed best not 

 to incorporate it with the general Michigan series, on account of the 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



preponderating influence it would have in determining the extent of 

 variation in the shell as a whole. As shown by figs. 5 and 7, however 

 the results, so far as the variation in height and width are concerned 

 would not have been substantially changed. But the size of the 

 average shell would be considerably reduced. 



III. One hundred and fifty-two specimens from Cincinnati, O., 

 collected by the late A. G. Wetherby. This was Prof. Wetherby's 

 duplicate series, and may be fairly considered to be a representative 

 series from that locality. It was used as being the only large series 

 from a single locality available as a basis of comparison with the 

 Michigan specimens. 



IV. Seven specimens of P. albolabris maritima Pils. from Cape 

 May, N.J., viz. : 3 from the collection of Mr. G. H. Clapp; 3 from that 

 of the writer and the type as given by Pilsbry in the original descrip- 

 tion. 



V. Three specimens of P. albolabris minor Sterki from New Phil- 

 adelphia, 0., received from Dr. Sterki. 



VI. Nine specimens of the original lot of P. albolabris traversensis, 

 collected by Leach near Traverse City, Mich. This set is also included 

 in the general Michigan series (I). 



For the purpose of comparing these different series and platting 

 the results, three different measurements have been used: 



1. The height, which is the distance from the apex to the lower 

 base of the lip, measured on a line parallel with the axis. 



2. The greater diameter, measured on a line at right angles to the 

 axis and including the lip. 



3. The ratio of the height to the diameter, obtained by dividing 

 the altitude by the width, the resulting percentage being the axial 

 index of the shell. 5 This method in the case of albolabris gives a 

 reasonable basis of comparison as to the proportionate height of the 

 shell, although it is obvious that it is neither accurate nor satis- 

 factory as a basis for a comparison of shape, as two shells may 

 have the same axial index and yet one be trochiform and the other 

 planorboid. Owing to the comparativeh' low spire and large body 

 whorl of albolabris, no satisfactory method of determining the com- 

 parative elevation of the spire and angular divergence of its sides 

 has been suggested, and attempts in that direction were abandoned 

 as futile. 



«See Baker, Am. Nat., XXXVIII, p. 661 (1904). 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



25 



The Cincinnati Series. 



Say did not give the locality of his type of albolabris nor its height. 

 Its width is given as one inch. W. G. Binney (Manual Am. Land 

 Shells, p. 299) gives 30 x 17 mm. as the size of typical albolabris, 

 but gives no information as to the basis on which the measurement 

 was determined. 



In the absence of any better basis for comparison, the Cincinnati 

 series was adopted as probably representative of the species in the 

 Ohio Valley and a locality about midway between the northern and 

 southern range of the typical form. 



/6 



/S 



II -t 20 ± Z/ i. ZZ,?>w<s^ 



Fig. 2 — Heights — 152 Cincinnati. 



The Cincinnati shells exhibit considerable variation in height, but 

 within comparatively narrow limits, ranging from 16 to 22 mm., the 

 average being 18.78. The major mode is at 18.75, with minor modes 

 at 17, 18, 20 and 21. It is to be noted that practically one-half (75) 

 of the specimens are from 18 to 19 mm. in height. 



i 1.6 



23 ± . 2f ± 30 £ 3/ i 32 i; fit* 



Fig. 3— Widths— 152 Cincinnati. 




26 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



The variation in width is within rather larger limits, ranging from 

 25.75 to 32.5 mm., with an average of 28.35. The curve is practically 

 trimodal, the major mode being at 28 and the minors at 27 and 29. 

 Ninety-four specimens or nearly 62 per cent, are from 27 to 29 mm. in 

 diameter. It is also to be noted that only a single example is less than 

 26 mm. in diameter. 



60 61 64 66 68 70 72 Ht Hv»V 



Fig. i — Axial index — 152 Cincinnati. 



In comparison with the variability in height and width, the curve 

 of the axial index is remarkably simple, showing great uniformity in 

 the series in the general proportions of the shell. The curve is practi- 

 cally unimodal, culminating at 67 per cent., the average being 66 per 

 cent. Eighty-nine specimens or 58 per cent, have an index between 

 66 and 68 per cent. 



The Minor Varieties. 



The number of authentic specimens of the three smaller varieties 

 available for study is too small to justify platting a curve for them 

 separately. 



The dimensions of the several specimens of each form are as follows : 



1. Var. maritima Pils.: 



Alt 13. 00 6 17.50 15.25 15.25 16.00 17.00 15.00 



Diam 22.00 24.00 23.00 22.00 22.50 24.00 21.50 



Index 59 .73 .66 .69 .71 .71 .70 



6 Pilsbry's type. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



The average shell is 22.7 x 15.6 mm., with an index of .68. Com- 

 pared with the remainder of the series, the type is more depressed, 

 having an index of .59 as against an average index of .70. 



2. Var. minor Sterki : 



Alt 15.75 13.75 13.25 



Diam 24.00 20.50 19.25 



Index 66 .67 .69 



The average shell Is 21.25 x 14.25 mm. with an index of .67. 



3. Var. traversensis Leach: 



Alt 14.00 13.50 13.75 13.00 12.25 



Diam 23.75 21.25 20.50 21.00 19.75 



Index 59 .61 .67 .62 .67 



Alt 15.00 13.75 12.50 12.00 



Diam 23.00 22.00 20.50 20.00 



Index .65 .63 .61 .60 



The average shell is 21.31 x 13.31 mm. with an index of .63. At 

 the same time that Dr. Leach collected these recent shells, he also 

 collected a series of fossil shells from the marl lying beneath the present 

 forest, where the typical set was found. The series is of interest as 

 showing that, as a local form, this variety has existed in the same 

 place for a very long period of time and substantially unchanged in 

 character. The dimensions of this series (14) are as follows: 



Alt 15.00 17.75 



Diam 23.00 25.75 



Index 65 .67 



Alt 16.00 14.50 



Diam 25.00 22.00 



Index 64 .66 



Alt 14.75 



Diam 22.50 



Index 66 



The average shell is 22.14 x 14.71 mm. with an index of .66. Com- 

 paring this series with the recent shells, it is to be noted that while 

 the range of variation both in height and width is greater in the fossil 

 series, the average shell in each series is very nearly the same. The 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



fossil shell, however, is slightly larger, .S3 mm. in diameter and 1.4 

 mm. in height, and proportionately higher. 



Comparing the average shell of the four series, we have: 



Alt. 



maritima 15.60 



minor 14.25 



traversensis (recent) 13.31 



(fossil) 14.71 



This shows that, while all the western shells are smaller and more 

 depressed than the eastern form, the average minor and fossil travers- 

 ensis, though somewhat smaller than the average maritima, have 

 nearly the same index. The recent traversensis, however, are not 

 only considerably smaller but also proportionately more depressed. 

 While the recent shells are too few in number and too variable to 

 establish a satisfactory curve, the following arrangement of the several 

 frequencies in the 19 specimens is nevertheless of interest, both as 

 showing the range of variation and for comparison with other series. 



Diam 19.25 19.75 20.00 20.50 21.00 21.25 



No 1113 11 



Diam 21.50 22.00 22.50 23.00 23.75 24.00 



No 13 12 13 



Average, 22.97 mm. 



Alt 12.00 12.25 12.50 13.00 13.25 



No 1112 1 



Alt 13.50 13.75 14.00 15.00 15.25 



No 13 12 2 



Alt 15.75 16.00 17.00 17.25 



No 1111 



Average. 14.21 mm. 



Index 59 .60 .61 .62 .63 .65 



No 2 12 111 



Index 66 .67 .69 .70 .71 .73 



No 2 3 2 12 1 



Average, .66. 



Comparing these results with those derived from the Cincinnati 

 series, it is to be noted: 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



29 



1. That while both series vary greatly in diameter they do not 

 overlap, there being a break of 1.75 mm. between the largest of the 

 "minor" series and the smallest of the Cincinnati shells. The average 

 diameter of the minor series is 22.97, as against 28.35 mm. in the 

 Cincinnati series, and that while 62 per cent, of the Cincinnati series 

 are from 27 to 29 mm. in diameter, more than 68 per cent, of the 

 minor series are from 20 to 23 mm. in width. 



2. That notwithstanding this great difference in size, the propor- 

 tions of the shells of both series are substantially the same, the index 

 of the minor series ranging from .59 to .73 and that of the Cincinnati 

 series from .60 to .74, the average index in both series, however, 

 being the same, .66. 



3. That while perhaps it may be claimed that the minor series is 

 too small, in proportion to the Cincinnati series, to give any satisfactory 

 comparison, nevertheless the evidence, such as it is, certainly tends 

 to show the existence of a smaller race of substantially the same 

 general shape, but averaging 5.36 mm., or 19 per cent., smaller in 

 diameter. 



The General Michigan Series. 

 As shown by the figure, this series exhibits great variability in 



i^iii{*t«iat«i^i^i^t«i4i*t*^*i'"" f—4 



Fig. 5 — Widths — Upper line, 225 Michigan and 124 Isle Royale. Lower line, 



225 Michigan. 



size, ranging from 18.75 to 34.25 mm. in width, with an average of 

 26.95. The major mode is at 29, with minor modes at 30.5, 28, 26.75 

 and 25. The average is 26.95 mm. There is a decided break at 

 24.5, below which there is a series of minor modes at 24.23, 22 and 

 19.75. 



Were it not for the strong minor mode at 24.75 and 25, the break 

 at 24.5 would be much more conspicuous. As the fifteen specimens 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



aggregated at these points are from twelve different localities, scattered 

 all over the State and in both peninsulas, it is evident that this is a 

 feature of the Michigan race as a whole, and not the result of a few 

 sets of strongly characterized local forms. The same peculiarity- 

 appears in the Isle Royale series (fig. 12), and is intensified when 

 the two series are combined (fig. 5). It is similar to the strong minor 

 mode culminating at 30.25. Indeed, the diversion of the whole series 

 between 24.50 and 34.25 mm. into five well-marked groups is quite 

 striking. In the same way the minor series below 24.5 is divided into 

 five similar groups. 



It is to be noticed that the break in this series at 24.5 is sub- 

 stantially at the same place where the break occurs between the Cin- 

 cinnati and the "minor" series. This is apparently more than a mere 

 coincidence. It is certainly corroborative evidence tending to 

 strengthen the inference drawn from the comparison of those series. 



Of the 225 specimens in the Michigan series, 55 are 24.5 mm. in 

 diameter or less and 170 are more than 24.5. Of the smaller group 

 8 are from the Upper Peninsula and 47 from the Lower. Of the 

 larger series 34 are from the Upper and 136 from the Lower Peninsula. 

 That is, in the Upper Peninsula 19 per cent, belong to the smaller 

 race and 26 per cent, in the Lower Peninsula. 



In fig. 1 the number of specimens of 24.5 mm. or less in diameter 

 from each county are represented by the smaller figure. Thus in 

 Kent County, of the 30 specimens in the series, 9 are of the smaller 

 race. 



In considering the probability of the existence of a small race, it is 

 necessary to distinguish between dwarf individuals, which occur 

 occasionally in all series of any extent, and a race of small individuals, 

 which are all more or less characterized by their diminutive size, It 

 is only the latter, of course, that is entitled to recognition in any 

 proper varietal sense. 



From an inspection of fig. 1, it will appear that, while the small 

 individuals are fairly well scattered over the State and in some cases 

 are no doubt individual dwarfs, they are nevertheless more numerous 

 in the northern part of the State, where the environmental conditions 

 are generally more unfavorable to molluscan life and likely to affect 

 the species as a whole. And it is significant also that of the entire 

 series of 55, no less than 37 occur in the four counties of Charlevoix, 

 Grand Traverse, Huron and Kent. The series from Kent is peculiar 

 in being from so far south and in a county where the typical form is 

 also well represented. The series, however, is well marked and proba- 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



bly the result of some peculiar local conditions. Unfortunately all 

 data on this point are lacking. 



On the whole, therefore, there seems to be reasonable ground for 

 dividing the Michigan series into two groups at this point (24.5 mm.), 

 and for the purposes of this paper they will be treated on that basis, 

 although there is no doubt but that a certain proportion of the series 

 of smaller shells are individual and not racial diminutives. For 

 purposes of convenience and ignoring all questions of synonomy 

 between the varietal names of maritima, minor and traversensis, the 

 smaller race will be termed the "minor" form and the larger race 

 will be referred to as the "major" form. 



JS 60 6i 



Fig. 6- 



6« 6S 68 70 72 T* 70 7g/»«*. 



Axial index — 225 Michigan. 



The range of variation in the axial index of the Michigan series, 

 taken as a whole, is very considerable, ranging from .59 to .75, with 

 an average of .67. The curve is multimodal, but within rather narrow 

 limits, the major mode being at .65, a conspicuous minor mode at .67, 

 and two others of the same height at .63 and .71. Compared with 

 the Cincinnati series, it shows much greater variability but with nearly 

 the same average proportion. One hundred and seven specimens, or 

 48 per cent., are between .64 and .68, while only 63, or 28 per cent., 

 are between .66 and .68, as against 59 per cent, in the Cincinnati 

 series. 




32 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Jan., 



Fig. 7— Heights— Upper line, 225 Michigan and 124 Isle Royale. Lower line 



225 Michigan. 



The 170 specimens of the major form vary in height from 15.25 to 

 24.25, with an average of 19.06 mm. 



The major mode is at 17, with well-marked minor modes at 18, 20 

 and 20.75. 



In width (fig. 5) the series vary from 24.75 to 34.25 mm., with an 

 average of 29.31. The major mode is at 29, with conspicuous minor 

 modes at 25, 26.75, 28 and 30.5. 



/Z 1 .'3 ± ,y ± /J" ± 16 ■£ qnv-^. 



Fig. 8 — Heights — 55 Michigan, minor form. 



The 55 specimens of the minor form vary from 12 to 17 mm. in 

 height, with an average of 14.67. The curve is practically trimodal, 

 with the modes at 13.75, 14.75 and 15.75. 



In width (fig. 5) this series ranges from 18.75 to 24.5 mm., with an 

 average of 22.3. The curve is multimodal, with nearly equal modes 

 at 19.75, 20.5, 22, 23, 23.75 and 24, indicating a higher degree 

 of variability than in the major form. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



6o 61 6V 66 63 70 7* 7 u 7 s -jg 



Fig. 9 — Axial index — 170 Michigan, major form. 



The axial index of the major form varies from .59 to .78, with an 

 average of .67. 



The curve is multimodal, culminating at .65, with minor modes at 

 .63,*.67 and .71. 



The similarity between this curve and that for the entire Michigan 

 series is very striking, and both have a general resemblance with that 

 of the Cincinnati series, but show greater variability. 



•Tf 61 6i1 06 61 io 72 14 TH-ms. 



Fig. 10— Axial index — 55 Michigan, minor form. 



The index of the minor form ranges from .59 to .74, with an average 

 of .66. The curve is also multimodal, but shows greater variability 

 than in the typical series. The major mode is at .67, with minor 

 modes at .61, .63 and .71. 



The Isle Royale Series. 



This series is of interest as being, like that from Cincinnati, repre- 

 sentative of a comparatively restricted region with no great variation 

 3 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



in the environmental conditions. Compared with the general Michigan 

 series, coming from a very much greater extent of territory and 

 representing the effect of very diverse conditions of environment, 

 it would naturally be expected, like the Cincinnati series, to show much 

 le.-s variation. This is true so far as the height of the shell is con- 

 cerned. But in width the range of variation is much greater and is 

 more similar to that of the general Michigan series. This is owing 

 to the fact that both the Isle Royale and Michigan series extend 

 below 24.5 and include the minor race, which does not appear in the 

 Cincinnati series. 



Fig. 11— Heights— 124 Isle Royale. 



In height the Isle Royale series varies from 14 to 21.5 mm., with 

 an average of 17. As in the Cincinnati series, the curve shows con- 

 siderable variation, but within narrower limits than in the general 

 Michigan series, the range of variation in both being within lh mm., 

 while in the general Michigan series the range of variation covers 

 12^ mm. The curves of both the Isle Royale and Cincinnati series 

 are very similar, the former, however, showing somewhat great 

 variability and averaging 1.78 mm. lower. Fifty-seven specimens or 

 46 per cent, are between 15.5 and 17 mm. in height, as against 50 

 per cent, between 18 and 19 mm. in the Cincinnati series. 



ZZ * 2,3 J- ZH 



ZJ 



ZS 



Zf ± ■So 



2. K.w*\f- 



Fig. 12— Widths— 124 Isle Royale. 



In width the Isle Royale series varies from 21.75 to 30.75 mm., with 

 an average of 25.86. The curve is very similar to that of the general 

 Michigan series, but within somewhat narrower limits, 21.75-30.75 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



35 



as against 18.75-34.25. The average shell is smaller, being 25.86 

 as against 26.95 nun. 



It is to be noted that a decided break occurs in the curve at 24.5, 

 as in the general Michigan series. Thirty-six specimens or 28 per 

 cent, are 24.5 or less in diameter, as against 24 per cent, in the general 

 series. 



Eliminating these, the curve of the remaining 88 specimens of the 

 major form is quite similar in a general way to that of the Cincinnati 

 series and to that of the major race in the general Michigan series, 

 but is like the latter in showing greater variability as compared with 

 the Cincinnati series. The range of variation in the Isle Royale and 

 Cincinnati series is about the same, but only two-thirds that of the 

 general Michigan series. The three series may be compared as follows : 



Cincinnati varies from 25.75 to 32.5 or within 6.75 mm.; average 



28.35. 

 Michigan varies from 24.75 to 34.25 or within 9.50 mm.; average 



29.31. 

 Isle Royale varies from 24.75 to 30.75 or within 6.00 mm. ; average 



26.97. 



^3 j-6 ■•ys Go 61 sa 66 <*? lo li. Tif THn\. 



Fig. 13— Axial index— 124 Isle Royale. 



The axial index of the Isle Royale series varies from .59 to .72, with 

 an average of .65. The curve is bimodal, with the major mode at .65 

 and the minor at .67. It is intermediate between that of the Cincin- 

 nati series and that of the general Michigan series, which it resembles 

 more than it does the former, differing mainly in being more simple 

 by the suppression of the conspicuous minor modes at .61, .63 and .71 . 



Comparative Notes upon the Different Series. 

 ] . The shells of the Upper and Lower Peninsulas. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Of the general Michigan series, 42 are from the Upper Peninsula 

 and 183 are from the Lower. As shown by figs. 5 and 12, the curve 

 of widths in both series is very similar. This being so, if the Upper 

 Peninsular examples from the general series are added to the Isle 

 Royale series, we shall have a fair basis for comparison of the species 

 as between these two portions of the State. There are then 166 

 Upper Peninsular specimens and 183 from the Lower Peninsula. 



Fig. 14 — Heights — a to b, 183 Lower Peninsula; c to d, 166 Upper Peninsula. 



The Lower Peninsular series varies in height from 12 to 24.25 mm. 

 with an average of 18.10. The Upper Peninsular series ranges from- 

 14 to 21.50 mm., with an average of 17.02. 



The Lower Peninsular series not only has a much wider range of 

 variation, but is more variable within that range. 



Both series are alike in having a conspicuous mode at 17 mm. 

 But the conspicuous modes at 16 and 21.75 mm. in the Lower Penin- 

 sular series are practically lacking in the Upper Peninsular series. In 

 other respects the two curves are very similar. 



Fig. 15— Widths — a to b, 1S3 Lower Peninsula; c to d, 166 Upper Peni nsu 



In width the two series show the same general similarity, exhibiting 

 great variability with conspicuous modes at nearly the same points, 

 the Lower Peninsular series differing mainly in the prominent modes 

 at 29 and 30.5 mm. and in the greater range of variation. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



37 



The Upper Peninsular series varies from 21.75 to 30.75 mm. with 

 an average of 25.81, while the Lower Peninsular series ranges from 

 18.75 to 34.25 mm. with an average of 27.10. 



It is to be noted that both curves show the same decided break at 

 24.5 mm. 



Forty-seven or 25.7 per cent, of the Lower Peninsular and 44 or 

 26.5 per cent, of the Upper Peninsular shells are 24.5 mm. or less 

 in diameter, while 122 or 73.5 per cent, from the Upper Peninsula 

 and 136 or 74.3 per cent, from the Lower belong to the major race 

 so called. 



SI 6o 6% 64; 66 6S lO 1Z 74 76 IS iwv. 



Fig. 16 — Axial index — a to b, 183 Lower Peninsula; c to d, 166 Upper Peninsula. 



The curves of the axial index of the two series are almost exactly 

 the same, the modes being in every instance at the same point, -but 

 with some slight variation in the number of frequencies and with a 

 slightly larger range of variation in the Lower Peninsular series. The 

 average index in the Upper Peninsular series is .654, as against .677 

 in the Lower Peninsula. 



The average shells of the two series compare as follows : 



Alt. Diam. Index. 



Upper Peninsular 17 02 25.81 .654 



Lower Peninsular 18.10 27.10 .677 



The average Upper Peninsular shell is 25.81 x 17.02 mm. If it 

 were of the same proportions as the average Lower Peninsular shell, 

 it should be 17.24 mm. in height and of course with the same index. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



That is, the average Upper Peninsular shell is smaller by 1.08 mm. 

 in height and 1.29 mm. in width and proportionately more depressed 

 by .22 mm. 



2. The Minor Races. 



The several series of the " minor" form may be tabulated as follows, 

 using the average shell as a basis of comparison: 



Alt. Diam. Index. 



1. maritime! 15.60 22.70 .68 



2. minor Sterki 14.25 21.25 .67 



3. traversensis 13.31 21.31 .63 



4. Upper Peninsular series 15.44 23.31 ' .66 



5. Lower Peninsular series 14.04 22.18 .66 



6. General Michigan series 14.67 22.30 .66 



7. Total Michigan series (4 and 5) 14.74 22.75 .66 



From this table it will be seen — 



1. That all the Michigan shells of the minor form are more depressed 

 than the typical maritima and minor Sterki. This is specially true 

 of the typical traversensis. 



2. That, with the exception of the typical traversensis series, all 

 the Michigan series have the same index. It is to be noted, however, 

 that the traversensis series is included in series 5, 6 and 7, and that, 

 if that series was eliminated, the index of these series would be some- 

 what increased and more closely approximated to that of maritima 

 and minor Sterki. 



3. That the Upper Peninsular series average larger than that of 

 the Lower Peninsula by 1.4 mm. in height and 1.13 mm. in width. 

 This is in marked contrast with the major forms of the two series, 

 in which the Lower Peninsular shell is larger by 1.08 mm. in height 

 and 1.29 mm. in width. This is well shown by comparing the two 

 curves in fig. 15. 



4. On the whole, however, the several series show a remarkable 

 uniformity. It would seem to be reasonably clear that the minor 

 form of albolabris varies in about the same way within certain fairty 

 defined limits. There is reason to believe that in certain locations 

 these peculiarities affect the whole race, and in such cases is worthy 

 of varietal recognition. It is equally true, no doubt, that many of 

 the minor shells are merely depauperate individuals. But whichever 

 is the case, so far as size and proportion are concerned, the amount 

 and range of variation is substantially the same. The explanation 

 of this probably is that the amount of depauperization that the 

 species will sustain and still exist is substantially the same everywhere, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



and that consequently the result of unfavorable conditions, whether 

 applied to the individual or to a local colony, will be within certain 

 limits very similar. 



It is to be noticed that the axial index of the major and minor 

 forms is substantially the same. That is to say, that while there is 

 a well marked division into two races, the variation is mainly one of 

 size and not of proportion. 



3. The Major Races. 



The average of the several "major" series may be compared as 

 follows : 



Alt. Diam. Index. 



1. Cincinnati series 18.78 28.35 .66 



2. Upper Peninsular series 17.59 26.79 .65 



3. Lower Peninsular series 19.44 29.26 .677 



4. General Michigan series 19.06 29.31 .67 



5. Total Michigan series (2 and 3) 18.52 28.03 .665 



Taking the average Cincinnati shell as a basis for comparison, we 

 find that the Upper Peninsular shell is smaller both in height and 

 width and also more depressed; while the Lower Peninsular shell is 

 both higher and wider and proportionately more elevated. This is 

 also true of both series 4 and 5, the latter, however, being very close 

 to the Cincinnati type in every particular. 



As it is a matter of common knowledge that the southern albolabris 

 are usually larger than those from the Northern States, the larger 

 size of the average Lower Peninsular shell seems peculiar. But this 

 is probably owing to the fact that the series is not an "unprejudiced" 

 one, but, as already explained, contains a larger proportion of selected 

 specimens than would occur in a natural series. 



The inclusion of a certain proportion of Upper Peninsular shells 

 in the general Michigan series serves to reduce the average size, and 

 in series 5 a still greater addition of the smaller northern form brings 

 the average down nearly to that of Cincinnati. It seems probable, 

 therefore, that a large and unprejudiced series of southern Michigan 

 shells would show an average not to exceed and quite likely somewhat 

 smaller than the Cincinnati type. 



While it is true that the results obtained from the Lower Peninsular 

 series are perhaps subject to criticism as to size, there does not seem 

 any ground to question the results obtained by a comparison of the 

 axial indices, which show that the Upper Peninsular shell is somewhat 

 more depressed, while the Lower Peninsular type is considerably more 

 elevated than the Cincinnati shell. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



In this connection it is to be noted that the axial index shows simply 

 the proportion between the height and the width. It does not neces- 

 sarily show that one race is more conical than the other. It is to be 

 regretted that no satisfactory method for definitely determining this 

 fact was found. In the absence of specific proof, it is only possible 

 to record the writer's impression, derived from a careful study of the 

 material, that as a rule the Lower Michigan shells are not only pro- 

 portionately more elevated, but are actually more conical in shape. 



Conclusions. 



From a careful study of the foregoing data, the following conclu- 

 sions seem to be justified: 



1. That Polygyra albolabris in Michigan exhibits great variability 

 in size. 



2. That both the Upper and Lower Peninsular series show a well- 

 marked division into two parts, the dividing line being at 24.5 mm. 

 in width. 



3. That this dividing line corresponds quite exactly with that 

 separating the several described minor varieties and the typical form 

 as exemplified by the Cincinnati series. 



4. That the evidence tends to show that when depauperization 

 takes place in P. albolabris, whether in individuals or in local races, 

 the results are within certain fairly definite lines. 



5. That when depauperization affects substantially the whole race 

 in a particular locality or district, it is sufficiently permanent to be 

 worthy of varietal recognition. 



6. That the depauperate shells of the Lower Peninsula are on an 

 average smaller and more depressed than those of the Upper Peninsula. 



7. That the major (or typical) series of the Upper Peninsula is 

 smaller and more depressed than that from the Lower Peninsula. 



8. That the major series of the Lower Peninsula is larger and more 

 elevated than the Cincinnati series. 



9. That this is probably to be accounted for by the fact that the 

 Michigan series is not an unprejudiced one and contains a large pro- 

 portion of selected specimens. 



10. That the average shell of both Michigan series combined is 

 substantially the same as that of the Cincinnati series. 



11. That the great variability of the Michigan series, taken as a 

 whole, as compared with the Cincinnati series, is due mainly to the 

 greater diversity of environmental conditions. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



February 1, 1910. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Mollusca of the Southwestern 

 States: IV. The Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 and J. H. Ferriss (January 26, 1910), was announced by the Publica- 

 tion Committee. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., made a communication on parallel and 

 convergent evolution in snails. (No abstract.) 



Dr. Nolan exhibited and commented on specimens of Cingalese 

 script. (No abstract.) 



February 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under 

 the following titles : 



"Crataegus in Pennsylvania, II," by C. S. Sargent (February 8, 1910). 



"A new Species of Marinula from near the head of the Gulf of 

 California," by Henry A. Pilsbry (February 12, 1910). 



John M. Macfarlane, Ph.D., made a communication on variation, 

 hybridization and heredity in native plants, illustrated by specimens. 

 (No abstract.) 



Merkel H. Jacobs, E. Waterman Dwight and Edward Anthony 

 Spitzka, M.D., were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



MODIOLARIA MARMORATA AND THE SURFACE FILM. 



BY HAROLD SELLERS COLTON. 



That small organisms act to the surface film of the water very- 

 much as they would react to a solid substratum is a matter of common 

 observation. Thus we see Hydra and various colonial protozoa hang- 

 ing from the surface film, and such mollusks as Lymnoea and Physa 

 crawling on its under side. Although the writer has never seen it 

 reported, yet it is not strange that lamellibranch mollusks should 

 react likewise. To be sure few lamellibranchs use their foot in a 

 manner comparable to the broad crawling organ of the gasteropod, 

 yet young ones oftentimes use their ciliated foot in a similar fashion. 

 However, one morning last 

 winter at Naples, the writer 

 observed an adult Modio- 

 laria crawling on the surface 

 film by means of its bvssus. 

 Being at once struck by 

 seeing so large an animal 

 suspended by such slender 

 threads attaching it to so 

 uncertain a substratum, he 

 at once made a sketch of it 

 (see figure ). 



The specimen in question 

 was found hanging by three 

 threads and was already 

 secreting a fourth. In other 

 words it was progressing 

 exactly as Mytilus would 

 have done on a solid sub- 

 stratum. Where the threads 

 were fast to the surface the 

 film was depressed. Al- 

 though Lymncea and Physa 

 expose a large area of foot to 



the film, this animal, not so big it is true, hangs from three or four 

 points. 



View of Modiolaria marmorata, looking down 

 upon it as it was suspended from the sur- 

 face film. The threads represent the byssus, 

 and the "V" at the end, the depression of 

 the surface film. 




1910. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



The specimen has been very kindly identified by Dr. Henry A. 

 Pilsbry as Modiolaria marmorata Forbes. This is a small Modiolaria 

 (8 mm. x 5 mm.) which for protection buries itself deep in the test of 

 such large Ascidians as Pkalusia mammilata or Ascida mentula. It 

 is an abundant form at Naples, and well worth a more extended study. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



mollusca of the southwestern states: iv. the chiricahua 



mountains, arizona. 



by h. a. pilsbry and j. h. ferriss. 

 Contents. 



Introduction. 

 I. Conditions determining the isolation of snail colonies, p. 46. 

 II. Influence of environment on the shell, p. 47. 



III. Factors in the formation of species and races, p. 49. 



IV. Distribution of Chiricahuan mollusks, p. 50. 

 V. Systematic descriptions of species, p. 53. 



The Chiricahua Mountains stand near the southeastern angle of 

 Arizona, extending for about fifty miles from northwest to southeast, 

 being one of the numerous short roughly parallel ranges of that part 

 of New Mexico and Arizona. The Peloncillo range, lower and very 

 arid, sharply limits the horizon eastward, distant about twenty miles. 

 The next range westward is the Dragoon Mountains, fully thirty 

 miles away. These ranges are separated by mesa having an elevation 

 of about 5,000 feet, but lower in the middle. 



The northwestern end of the range is known as the Dos Cabezas 

 Mountains, being separated from the main range by a depression 

 to 5,500 feet near Fort Bowie. The mountains as far south as White 

 Tail Canyon are rather arid, the trees stunted oaks and pinons, with 

 small beech, walnut, willow, buttonwood, etc., in the canyons. The 

 Cave Creek region is much more verdant and at elevations of 8,000 

 feet and over there are fine pine and spruce forests. 1 The mountains are 

 rugged, almost everywhere cut into sharp ridges and peaks, the slopes 

 steep and stony or rocky, often broken by cliffs. The accompanying 

 map gives a general idea of the positions of the various valleys or 

 canyons mentioned herein. Various maps of single canyons give the 

 locations of collecting stations. 2 



1 For an account of the flora of the Chiricahuas see J. C. Blumer, The Plant 

 Geography of the Chiricahua Mountains, Science, XXX, p. 720, November 19, 

 1909. 



2 The general map of the range and that of Cave Creek Canyon were drawn 

 from sketches made by both authors, with some few additions to the general 

 map from a map of the Chiricahua Forest Reserve, published by the Forest 

 Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 1906. This map is very inaccurate 

 in many details, yet useful in the absence of anything better. The other maps 

 of canyons are from the note-book of one of the authors. Elevations where 

 given herein are in part from the Forest Reserve map, in part estimated; and 

 all must be accepted as only approximate. 




1910.]' 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



45 



The highest part of the range, and that florally and faunally richest, 

 has been included since 1906 in a U. S. Forest Reserve; the rest'of the 

 range has no timber large enough to tempt the lumberman, and 



Buckeye canyon 



•MILE WATER HOLE 

 -- LOHORN'S RANCH 



B«r Emigrant canyon 

 Wood's canyon 



White 

 Tail CaI. 



Turkey 



CKf-lN 



Cave 

 'Creek 



RUCKER CANYON, 



Fig. 1. — Map showing positions of the canyons in the Chiricahua range. 



serves as cattle ranges. The conditions of molluscan life are likely 

 to remain undisturbed for many years. 

 We have herein given an account of the present status of the mollus- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



can fauna as full as circumstances permitted. In many of the canyons 

 we have endeavored to locate the individual snail colonies with suffi- 

 cient detail to insure their recognition by subsequent observers, so 

 that their further evolution may be followed. Large areas still 

 remain to be explored, and neither author has had time to fully study 

 the material collected. 



The first record of mollusks from the Chiricahuas was made by 

 Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, who in 1890 describes specimens of Holospira 

 arizonensis, 3 collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey for the U. S. Department 

 of Agriculturejat Dos Cabezas, in the western foothills of the Dos 

 Cabezas Mountains. In 1895 Dr. W. H. Dall described Polygyra 

 chiricahuana and subsequently (1897) he reported Pyramidula striatella, 

 Thysanophora ingersolli and Zonitoides arborea,* all from Fly's Park 

 in the central Chiricahuas. collected by Dr. Fisher. No other species 

 were known from the range prior to the first visit by Mr. Ferriss in 

 February, 1904. Numerous new species were found during this brief 

 visit, notwithstanding the unfavorable season. In November, 1906, 

 both of us collected in the range, exploring the principal canyons from 

 Buckeye in the north to Cave Creek and the parks about its head. 

 In November, 1907, Messrs. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels spent two 

 weeks in the Chiricahuas, and in 1908, from September 20 to November 

 15, Ferriss continued the work of exploring the southern canyons. 



I. Conditions Determining the Isolation of Snail Colonies. 



The faunas of the several mountain ranges of southern Arizona 

 are separated one from another by the intervening nearly level mesa, 

 where snails are absolutely wanting and cannot exist. This is due not 

 alone to their greater aridity, higher temperature and xerophytic 

 flora, but chiefly we believe to the absence of rocks, in the interstices 

 of which snails might burrow below the dry surface to depths where 

 a certain amount of moisture is retained. The mesa forms a barrier 

 as impassable to land snails as an equal expanse of sea; and can be 

 surmounted only by minute forms light enough to be transported by 

 the wind. During the existence of the present conditions, w r hich 

 probably were initiated in the Pliocene, the larger snails of each range 

 have been absolutely isolated. 



Owing to the general north and south trend of the ranges, the main 

 canyons run eastward or westward, thus exposing a very hot slope 



3 Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum, XIII, 1890. 



4 Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum, XVIII, 1895, and XIX, 1897. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



with little vegetation northward and a more shaded slope on the 

 south side, having more vegetation, but deeply interrupted by side 

 canyons and ravines. These conditions may be illustrated by the 

 map of White Tail Canyon (p. 75). It will be noticed thereon that 

 on the southern side of the canyon the collecting stations are nearly 

 all on northwestern slopes, none on northeastern. The latter are 

 barren, and except near the top of the ridge form impassable barriers 

 to mollusks. In the more arid portion of the range, snails are rarely 

 found, often wholly wanting, on the slopes with mainly southern 

 exposure. These conditions of exposure determine the limits of snail 

 colonies, absolutely inhibiting migrations of much extent, though the 

 anastomosing heads of adjacent canyons sometimes supply favorable 

 slopes. 



The isolation of snail colonies is further favored by the habits of 

 most of the Helices, which live deep in rocky talus or slides. They 

 probably crawl about in the open only on rare occasions, and are 

 wholly incapable of crossing slopes where shelter is lacking. We 

 have never found living Helices on the surface in the Chiricahua 

 Mountains, and with the exception of Oreohelix chiricahuana, living 

 individuals were always found well buried in the rocks. Of some 

 species, not even dead shells have been found on the surface. Some 

 of these races apparently live and die under the surface. 



The progressive growth of the canyons by the deepening of lateral 

 ravines and formation of new ones constantly accentuates the isolation 

 of colonies by forming new slopes, of which one in each case is likely 

 to be arid and therefore a barrier to the spread of snails. Moreover, 

 the removal by erosion of stratified rocks, especially limestone, exposes 

 ridges of granitic or eruptive rocks, in which snails are generally 

 scarce, and some genera never present. Since the period of isolation 

 of the several ranges, there has therefore been progressive isolation 

 of colonies within each range. 



II. Influence of Environment on the Shell. 



Relation of Climate to Shell-texture. — Notwithstanding the aridity 

 of the climate, the Chiricanuan snails show none of the characteristics 

 which some recent authors have considered to be the direct reactions 

 to the desert environment. With the exception of Oreohelix chirica- 

 huana, none of the species are conspicuously earthy, and none differ 

 markedly in sculpture from snails of more humid districts. 



Rude, irregular sculpture and opaque chalky substance charac- 

 terize land snails which live exposed to the sun. In such places their 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



active life and periods of growth are certainly limited to dewy nights 

 and times of ram, 5 whether they live in a reasonably humid region, as 

 Cerion on the coast of Cuba, or in an arid region, as some Oreohelices 

 of the Rocky Mountains. Pulmo'nate land snails which pass their 

 lives hidden from the sun or shaded by dense foliage, do not have 

 notably chalky shells, even in Arizona where a great part of the year 

 is dry. We regard the opacity and cretaceous texture of exposed 

 snails as in no way due to the direct action of climatic factors, 6 but 

 as a protective adaptation to excessive sunlight, which would readily 

 penetrate thin shells, or those composed largely of conchiolin. 7 



Oreohelix chiricahuana and in some cases Holospira are the only 

 Chiricahuan snails which live on or close to the surface, uncovered or 

 only partially protected; these are also the only snails which have 

 the shell notably chalky and opaque. The snails of the dryest 

 (Dos Cabezas) part of the range are not "desert snails" in appearance. 

 They live where little light or none can penetrate. 



Relation of Exposure to Size. — The size of individual snails (excepting 

 the heliophilous group discussed above) is almost wholly a function 

 of the exposure. Snails living on northern or northwestern exposures 

 are invariably larger than those from southern or eastern exposures, 

 regardless of elevation, 8 unless other conditions are conspicuously 

 unfavorable. This is apparently due to the more abundant crypto- 

 gamic or other plant food, the growth of which is favored by the more 

 humid slopes, 9 as well as the greater duration of humid growing periods. 

 As would naturally be expected, the difference in size of the snails 

 is more marked in rather dry or semi-arid regions than in those abun- 

 dantly watered and shaded. Our measurements of Sonorella support 

 the observations already published on other species. 



In some cases the divergence has proceeded so far that diversity 

 of size becomes an important specific character, as in the case of 

 Sonorella leucura and micra, living on opposite sides of White Tail 



5 Additions to the shell are made only when the animal is active, during 

 humid periods, and thus exposed neither to arid winds or alkaline dust. Growth 

 of the shell does not proceed when the snail is retracted and at rest, but only 

 when it is in full activity, with the mantle fullv produced. 



6 As claimed by Dr. W. H. Dall, Proc. A. N. S. Phila.. 1896, pp. 411, etc. 



7 A long list of conspicuously opaque, chalky snails which aestivate in the 

 full glare of the sun could be given. We may mention Leucochroa, Cerion incanum 

 maritimum, etc., Bulimulus alternatus, Oreohelix strigosa huachucana. Allied 

 species which live in more shaded places tend to lose their opacity; cf. Oreohelix 

 barbata and 0. clappi. 



8 At least within limits of two or three thousand feet. 



9 We have already given data in support of this fact in Proc. A. N. S., Phila., 

 1906, pp. 552-555, and in other places. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Canyon. Where snails are gathered from one limited region and 

 those from various colonies are not kept separate, the measurements 

 of such series when plotted may form conspicuously bimodal curves, 

 due to the mixture of shells from different exposures. Such results 

 are entirely worthless in the study of the relations of organism to 

 environment. 



We have made no exhaustive series of measurements to ascertain 

 whether the height of the spire varies with elevation of the station, 

 but such observations as we have made indicate that it does not. In 

 the helices there is rather wide individual variation in height of spire 

 at all levels indifferently. 10 



Influence of the Character of the Rock. — Land snails are notoriously 

 more abundant on limestone than where the country rock is igneous. 

 They are also usually heavier, the shell-walls thicker, though this is 

 not the case with all species. The individuals apparently reach 

 at least as large a size where lime is scarce as where it is abundant, if 

 other conditions (exposure and humidity) are about equal. In several 

 cases the largest individuals occurred under granitic rock, as in the case 

 of Sonorella bicipitis at Nine-mile water-hole. 



Enemies. — Field mice are apparently the chief enemies of the larger 

 snails of the Chiricahuas. We often found unmistakable evidences 

 of their destructive activity. The crevices of rock-piles which harbor 

 most of the snails are often accessible to mice; and no protective 

 device seems to have arisen effective against the latter. Oreohelix 

 barbata, which from the dirt on its hairy coat is rather hard to see, 

 we noticed on several occasions had been cruelly preyed upon by 

 mice. We can offer observations upon predacious insects. 



III. Factors in the Formation of Races and Species. 



The several modifications of the shells which we have noted above 

 as correlated to some extent with external factors are only in minor 

 part such features as serve to signalize species. 11 Thus in Sonorella 

 the species are based mainly upon characters of the genitalia. In 

 Ashmunella upon the teeth of the aperture and the shape of the last 

 whorl. In Holospira the shape of the spire and its sculpture are the 

 chief differential features. Moreover, in many cases, allied but 



10 Bellini's recent claim that on Capri the snails from greater elevations have 

 higher spires, due to diminished atmospheric pressure, seems to us fantastic in 

 the extreme. 



11 In White Tail Canyon, however, Sonorella micro, and Ashmunella lepiderma 

 differ from their fellows on the more shaded side of the canyon by features 

 mainly traceable to the different exposure and rock. 



4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



distinct species live under conditions which so far as we can see are 

 identical. The subterranean Sonorellas, such as bicipitis, optata, 

 bowiensis and leucura inhabit slopes having similar exposure, vegeta- 

 tion, elevation, and rock cover, yet they differ characteristically in 

 genitalia. At the same time, one style of genital organs seems to be 

 as fit as another. Nearly all of the Holospiras live in very similar 

 places. The local differences in the stations of the typical colonies 

 of Oreohelix cMricakmna, obsoleta and pcrcarinata are apparently 

 less than the differences between the several stations of colonies of 

 chincahuana. If the conditions seem practically identical on parallel 

 slopes of different canyons, it seems hopeless to search for differential 

 conditions among several rock-piles or taluses along one canyon side, 

 having the same exposure, composed of the same rocks, separated 

 perhaps only by arid gulleys or barren 'earth slopes; yet such taluses 

 often harbor perceptibly different colonies of the same species. 



The facts developed in our Arizona work lead us to doubt the 

 potency of environment as a direct agent in effecting specific differ- 

 entiation, or at least to assign such factors a wholly subsidiary role. 

 The facts seem explicable only on the hypothesis of variations existing 

 or arising in the constitution of the egg, leading to modifications of 

 the adult organism which for the greater part are indifferent as affecting 

 the well-being'of the race. Such adaptation as exists would apparently 

 be due to selection. The isolation of small colonies in these moun- 

 tains must favor the survival of what are currently called mutations 

 occurring therein. The occasional mingling of neighboring colonies 

 in which diverse variations have arisen seems to have led to such 

 heterogeneous colonies as we have described in Holospira. 12 



We have no definite evidence to offer bearing upon the amplitude 

 of individual variations or "mutations," yet we may again mention 

 the fact that in many species nearly every colony has its minor pecu- 

 liarities — peculiarities far below the grade usually called "specific," 

 yet appreciable to the trained eye. 13 It may be inferred from this 

 fact that the amplitude of "mutations" is ordinarily not great. 



IV. Distribution of Chiricahuan Mollusks. 



The snail fauna of the Chiricahuas consists of 51 species, falling into 

 two main categories : 



12 We believe this to be the explanation of the diversity of colonies in the 

 polychromatic arboreal snails such as Partula and Liguus, in which some colonies 

 of a given species are homogeneous, while others are heterogeneous, snails of 

 several definite color-patterns being the offspring of a single mother. 



13 Only the application of careful biometric methods can fully or definitely 

 bring out these minute differences. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



1. Species peculiar to the range: all forms of the genera Sonorella, 

 Oreohelix, Ashmunella and Holospira, 21 species with 14 subspecies. 

 These are the larger snails of the fauna, without exception larger and 

 heavier than any of the snails ranging also outside of the Chiricahuas. 

 The members of tnis group of forms have probably been isolated in 

 these mountains since the beginning of the present climatic cycle. 

 They are too heavy to be transported across the mesa by wind, and the 

 probability that they would be carried by birds or other accidental 

 means is so remote as to be negligible. All of them were apparently 

 derived from not more than six ancestral specific stocks ; the species 

 of Ashmunella and Holospira forming homogeneous groups probably 

 of common ancestry, while in Sonorella and Oreohelix the species fall 

 into two groups. 



2. Species having a distribution outside of the range: all of them smaller 

 than the preceding and many minute. 



(a) Alpine forms, mainly living above 7,500 feet, and elsewhere 

 found only in the Canadian zone of the Rocky Mountains northward. 

 Those found also in the Huachuca range are indicated by the letter H. 



Thysanophora ingersollimeridioncdis. Vertigo columbiana utahensis. 



Vitrina cdaskana, H. " modesta parietal is, H. 



Euconulus fulvus alaskensis, H. " coloradoensisbasidens. 

 Pyramidula cronkhitei, H. 



(6) Transition zone forms chiefly having an almost continental 

 distribution in that zone, also ranging into higher and lower zones. 



Zonitoides arbor ea, about 8,000 feet, H. 

 Cochlicopa lubrica, 6,000-8,000 feet, H. 

 Pupilla hebes, 7,500-8,000 feet, H. 

 Vertigo milium, 8,000 feet, H. 

 Succinea avara, about 6,500 feet, H. 



The species of groups (a) and (b) are forms which from their wide 

 distribution must be of considerable antiquity, all probably having 

 existed practically unchanged since before the initiation of present 

 climatic conditions in Arizona. The absence of any form of the Oreo- 

 helix strigosa group is remarkable, on account of the very wide distri- 

 bution of this Transition zone type in the Rocky Mountains. 



(c) Upper Sonoran species, most of them widely distributed in 

 the Southwest, some ranging into the Lower Sonoran. Those found 

 also in the Huachuca and Florida ranges marked with the letters H. 

 and F. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Thysanophora hornii, 14 H. F. Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella. 



Agrinlimax kemphilli ashmuni, 1 '* H. " quadridentata 15 H. 



Zonitoides milium meridionalis, H. " pilsbryana, H. F. 



minuscula alachuana, H. " perversa. 1 * 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata, H. " ashmuni 1 * H. F. 



Helicodiscus eigenmanni arizonensiSjJI. " cochisensis 1 * H. 

 Radiodiscus millccostatus 15 H. " dalliana. 1 * 



Punctum californicum. lh " tuba. 1 * 



Vallonia perspectiva 1 * H. F. Pisidium abditum huachucanum 15 , H. 



With the single exception of Agriolimax, all of these are very small 

 or minute snails, certainly capable of being carried long distances 

 by cyclonic winds, and it is likely that their wide distribution may be 

 attributed in part to such means, though it is not improbable that 

 a considerable number of the forms may have existed before the 

 isolation of the Arizona ranges. 



Twenty-two of the thirty species of groups 2 (a, b, c) have been 

 found in the Huachuca range. 16 These are indicated in the list above 

 by the letter H. Four species, marked F in the list, occur in the far 

 poorer fauna of the Florida Mountains. 



Faunal zones represented in the Chiricahuas are the Canadian, the 

 Transition, and the Upper Sonoran. Zones dependent upon elevation 

 are less distinctly marked in mollusks than in plants or vertebrates, 

 local exposure and suitable conditions of moisture controlling the 

 distribution of species to such an extent that the elevation zones are 

 extremely irregular. It appears, however, that the Canadian zone 

 forms are strictly confined to the high "parks" and peaks. The 

 characteristic Transition zone 'species are also for the most part high 

 on the range, as are also five species which, from their distribution 

 elsewhere, are considered to be Upper Sonoran. Seven of the eighteen 

 Upper Sonoran species have been found only below 7,000 feet, while 

 six have a general range. 



In the group of species peculiar to the Chiricahua range, and which 

 must apparently be considered Upper Sonoran, many of the forms 

 are very local in distribution and belong to the middle and lower zones 

 ■of the range. Those having a wider distribution often have a great 

 vertical range, as the following examples: 



14 Found only low, below 7,000 feet. 



15 As yet found only at about 8,000 feet or above, but none of them known 

 from much further north than the Chiricahua range. 



16 Proc. A. N. S. Phila. for 1909, pp. 498-516. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Sonorella virilis, 6,000 to 9,000 feet, 

 Oreohelix clappi, 6,000 to over 8,000 feet. 

 Ashmunella chiricahuana, 6,000 to 8,500 feet. 

 " angulata, 6,000 to over 8,000 feet. 



Sonorella virilis leucura, S. micro, Ashmunella proximo, A. fissidens 

 and their subspecies, and Holospira, seem, in their several areas, to 

 range from low to as high as suitable cover and slope-exposure are 

 found. Ashmunella esuritor, metamorphosa and duplicidens belong to 

 the higher levels (where the flora is very different), while A. ferrissi 

 has not been found over 6,500 feet, if so high as that, 



In general, the specially Canadian and Transition species seem to 

 be more sharply limited in their range downward than the Upper 

 Sonoran forms are in their extension upward. We attribute this 

 as much to the difference in plant life as to any more direct climatic 

 conditions. 



The Lower Sonoran zone, in this area, has no land molluscan fauna, 

 but Physa and Lymncea occur in the cienega east of the Chiricahuas. 



V. Systematic Descriptions of Species. 

 Family HELIClDiE. 



This family comprises four genera in Arizona: Sonorella Pils., 

 Oreohelix Pils., Ashmunella Pils. and Ckll., and Thysanophora Strebel. 

 Ashmunella is confined to a comparatively small area in the southeastern 

 corner of the territory; but the other genera extend to the northern 

 border, but they are only locally distributed, and some or all may be 

 absent over areas of hundreds of square miles. Ashmunella and 

 Sonorella are Upper Sonoran genera, Oreohelix belongs to the Transi- 

 tion zone, often extending into the Canadian (where it is usually 

 dwarfed), and sometimes into the Upper Sonoran zone, where it is 

 mainly represented by special species. 



The genera Ashmunella and Sonorella are curiously diverse in modes 

 of racial differentiation. In Ashmunella the shell has been most 

 modified. In series of allied forms from successive canyons of a single 

 range the shells will show much greater divergence than the soft 

 parts. This is well illustrated by the Huachucan series, which, with 

 conspicuous differences among the shells, shows hardly any in the 

 soft parts. In Sonorella, on the other hand, the shells from a series 

 of successive canyons may show barely perceptible differences, but 

 the genitalia have been so modified in detail that the species are 

 instantly recognizable from these organs. The conditions in Sonorella 




•54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



form a strong argument against modification by the action of environ- 

 ment. The differentiation affects internal organs concerned solely 

 in the act of reproduction, and only in the most remote manner con- 

 nected with parts directly acted upon by external factors. 



Genus SONORELLA Pilsbry. 



Sonorella is the most characteristic Helicid snail of the mountains 

 of southern New Mexico and Arizona. It is more widely distributed 

 than either Ashmunella or Oreohelix, inhabiting mountains too arid to 

 support either of the other genera, such as the Peloncillo, Dos Cabezas 

 and Rincon ranges. In the Grand Canyon of the Colorado we dug 

 them from the cruelly sharp rock-slides of the pre-Cambrian zone, in 

 deep, sunless canyon- where no other snails penetrate; and they exist 

 equally on the plateau at the rim, 5,000 feet above the sea. 



Tins tolerance of untoward conditions is doubtless due in part to their 

 deep digging habit. Sonorella is usually found well down in the 

 rocky talus or slide, in the layer against the earth, where a certain 

 degree of moisture remains. In some places Ashmunella accompanies 

 Sonorella in the same slides. This Is especially the case in the more 

 verdant and humid canyons, such as Cave Creek in the Chiricahuas, 

 where Sonorella, Ashmunella and Oreohelix clappi may be found 

 together. 



Oreohelix (except 0. clappi and 0. barbata) lives on the surface, on 

 or under the top stones, or around dead mescal, bear grass or yuccas. 

 While apparently fitted to live in exposed and extreme^ arid places, 

 yet in southern Arizona Oreohelix certainly does not inhabit the more 

 arid ranges where Sonorella exists. 



Oreohelix and Ashmunella may sometimes be collected in copious 

 quantity, but Sonorella is almost always rare. In the Dos Cabezas 

 range a half dozen living adults would be a good day's bag for any 

 collector, and in dry weather, at least, this would mean very hard 

 work. In le^s arid localities the snails are less scarce; but as a general 

 rule to collect living Sonorellas successfully is the most strenuous 

 physical labor, occasionally enlivened by danger of broken limbs from 

 falling rocks or caving in of holes, in slides of heavy rock. Strong 

 gloves are necessary in " quarrying" for Sonorella. In spite of strained 

 muscles, bruises and bleeding fingers, the fascination of Sonorella 

 hunting is irresistible. The game gains in value from the hardihood 

 brought out in the chase, and it is only after one has forgotten the 

 labor that he can part with a single specimen of the rarer species. 



Chiricahuan Sonorellas belong to two very diverse groups distin- 

 guished as follows : 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Key to Chiricahuan Species of Sonorella. 



a. — Penis comparatively short, very much less than the diameter of 



the shell, and about \ to \ the length of spermatheca and its 



duct (Group of S. hachitana). 



b. — Penis-papilla annulate, the free end more or less pointed; 



epiphallus less than half the diameter of shell; whorls 4f 



to 5\. 



c. — Flagellum wanting or vestigeal; diameter of shell 15.5 to 



25 mm S. optata. 



c 1 . — Flagellum distinct but minute; diameter of shell 18 to 



26 mm S. bicipitis. 



b l . — Penis-papilla plain, cylindric with obtuse end; epiphallus 



about half the diam. of shell; penis larger; whorls about 4^. 



c. — Umbilicus contained about 5^ times in diameter of the 



shell, which is depressed, 15 to 18 mm. in diameter. 



S. bowiensis. 

 c 1 . — Umbilicus contained about 10 times in diameter of shell, 

 which is subglobose, 13.5 to 20 mm. in diameter. 



S. binneyi. 



a 1 . — Penis very large, its length exceeding the diameter of the shell, 



and not differing much from the length of spermatheca and 



duct; penis-papilla and vagina veiy long (Group of S. virilis). 



b. — Shell moderately solid, larger. 



c. — Diameter of shell 16 to 21 mm S. virilis. 



c 1 . — Diameter of shell 18 to 25 mm. ; more depressed. S. v. leucura. 

 b l . — Shell thin, smaller, diameter 12 to 15 mm S. micra. 



Group of Sonorella hachitana. 



Sonorella bicipitis n. sp. PI. I, figs. 1-5. 



Shell of the group of S. hachitana, the umbilicus about one-seventh 

 the total diameter, and one-third covered by the dilated columellar 

 lip; brown, fading to white around the umbilicus, encircled above the 

 periphery with a dark chestnut band bordered above and below with 

 white bands of about the same width ; the brown band visible on about 

 two whorls of the spire, the upper white band visible also on the 

 penultimate whorl. Whorls 4f to 5, rather slowly increasing at first, 

 the penultimate and last whorls rapidly widening. Surface nearly 

 smooth to the eye, glossy. Embryonic shell consisting of H whorls. 

 The first half whorl has distinct radial ripples; the next whorl has 

 close, fine wrinkles in the direction of growth-lines, and interrupted 

 by delicate, spirally descending threads. The third whorl shows 

 some very, sparse punctation. Later whorls are marked with fine 

 growth-ripples, and visually show, under a strong lens, some exces- 

 sively faint spiral lines above the periphery. The last whorl descends 




OJ 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



moderately in front, and is well rounded on periphery and base, as 

 usual. The aperture is large, oblique, rounded, nearly as high as wide. 

 Peristome thin, narrowly expanded outwardly, the basal margin a 

 trifle reflexed, columellar margin dilated in a curved triangular plate 

 over about one-third of the umbilicus. Alt. 14, diam. 23 mm.; aper- 

 ture, alt. 12, diam. 13 mm. 



Buck erf C« 



Bio Cmi&ikakt Cn 



TC 



Tail Cn. 



Fig. 2. — Distribution of Sonorella in the Chiricahua Mountains: 1, S. bicipitis; 

 2, S. bounensis (at point of the arrow); 3, »S. optata; 4, >S. micra; 5, S. virilis 

 leucura; 6, S. virilis; 7, »S. binneyi. Large areas between 1 and 2 and between 

 3 and 4 are unexplored. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



57 



M£5A 



CAI 2 P _BUCKtYE_.C*rr<70N 



Fig. 3. — Principal collecting stations in the northern canyons of the Dos Cabezas 



range. 



Genitalia, PI. Ill, figs. 1 , 2, 4, 7. Penis of moderate length, somewhat 

 less than one-third the length of spermatheca and duct, with a long 

 retractor muscle; the penis-papilla (pp.) cylindric, annulated distally, 

 with conic tip. Epiphallus somewhat shorter than penis; flagellum 

 0.6 or 0.7 mm. long. Vagina generally not much longer than the 

 penis. Sole (in alcohol) ochre or dirty white, uniform or with 

 slightly darker sides. Back gray, the flanks and tail very pale. 



Jaw with 6 to 8 ribs, grouped in the median half. Radula with 

 26,12,1,12,26 to 27,13,1,13,27 teeth, centrals and laterals without 

 ectocones; some of the marginals with both cusps bifid. 



Type No. 94,328 A. N. S. P., from Buckeye Canyon, Dos Cabezas 

 range of the Chiricahua Mountains, at Station 1, fig. 3. 



It ranges throughout Buckeye and Happy Camp Canyons, and at 




5S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Nine-mile Water-hole, living deep under stones and rocks. Buckeye 

 Canyon is the first from the northern end of the range. Its upper 

 branches drain the eastern flanks of Dos Cabezas Peak. At the time 

 of our visit in November there was water at intervals in the stony 

 bed of the canyon as far down as our camp, near the reduction plant 

 of the Buckeye gold mine. Tarbox and Happy Camp Canyons unite 

 into a wide valley about a mile from the mesa. The mouth of this 

 valley is half closed by a great reef of light gray granite rocks which 

 forms a conspicuous landmark from the mesa. The country rock of 

 these canyons is mainly metamorphic, but in part granitic. 



This species has the same apical sculpture as S. bowiensis and 

 S. optima. It differs from optima in the shape of the penis-papilla, 

 the presence of a flagellum, the shorter inner cusp of the marginal 

 teeth, the larger aperture and narrower umbilicus. S. hachitana 

 from the Big Hachet Mountains has a decidedly smaller aperture. 

 In shell characters S. bicipitis stands nearest S. huachucana, but the 

 apical sculpture of the latter is much less distinct, without the oblique 

 threads on the last embryonic whorl which are characteristic of S. 

 bicipitis and related forms. This species is represented by 43 adult 

 shells, of which 17 were taken alive, and many young ones. The 

 colonies are widely separated 17 and small; living shells are rare, and 

 their collection involves the removal of much rock. The physical 

 conditions are very similar in all the stations in Buckeye and Happy 

 Camp Canyons. All the stations are on steep well-drained slopes 

 facing northward, the earth very dry (in November), even under a 

 couple of feet of rock, and scantily protected by low scrubby oak 

 brush. At Nine-mile Water-hole the conditions are quite different 

 as noted below. 



In the type locality, Station 1 (pi. I, figs. 1, 2, 3, and pi. Ill, fig. 7), 

 we took 7 living adult and 6 young specimens measuring as follows : 



Alt 14 8 14.2 14 13 13 13 12.2 mm. 



Diam 24 23.3 23 22 22 21 20.2 mm. 



This station is high on the steep south side of the canyon. 

 In a lot of 23 from Station 3 (No. 94,326), 7 are adult living shells, 

 measuring : 



17 This must be understood in a comparative sense, as indicating that many 

 apparently suitable situations examined were found barren. Doubtless a 

 longer search would show that a large number of small colonies exist. We 

 worked two days in Buckeye and several hours in Nine-mile. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Alt 12.8 12.2 12.2 12.7 12 11.8 11.5 mm. 



Diam 21 21 20.5 20 19.2 19 18.5 mm. 



Ten adults from the slopes around the head of the southeastern 

 branch of Buckeye Canyon, Station 4, vary from 18.7 to 22 mm. 

 diameter (No. 94,325). 



Thirteen adults were taken at Station 5, near the head of Happy 

 Camp Canyon, only one alive. 



Alt 13 13 12.6 12.3 12.3 11 11.7 mm. 



Diam 22.3 21 20.7 20 20.2 20 19 mm. 



Alt 11.7 11.8 12 11.2 11 10.5 mm. 



Diam 19.2 19.2 19 19.2 19 18 mm. 



At Nine-mile Water-hole we obtained a single living adult snail and 

 8 young (No. 99,324). These, with a specimen taken by Mr. Ferriss 

 in 1905, indicate a large race at this place, with a slightly larger umbili- 

 cus than the types, and more closely approaching lip-ends (pi. I 

 figs. 4, 5). The soft anatomy, sculpture and color are like typical S. 

 bicipitis. Whorls barely 5. Two adults measure: 



Alt 15 15 mm. 



Diam 26 25.5 " 



Aperture alt 13 13 



" diam 14 14.5 " 



The genitalia are figured pi. Ill, fig. 2. 



Nine-mile Water-hole is a shallow amphitheatre open eastward to 

 the mesa, its slopes covered with great weathered boulders of coarse- 

 grained light gray granite, among which ferns grow luxuriantly. 

 A tiny stream trickles among the rocks, collecting into a stagnant 

 pool at the base. A man can make his way in the interstices between 

 and under the rocks, in some places, but as very few of them are 

 movable, it is almost impossible to obtain the shells. 



Specimens were dissected from Stations 1, 3, 4, 5 and from Nine-mile 

 Water-hole. All have a distinct sheath at the base of the penis, 

 attached also to the epiphallus and partially enveloping the latter 

 throughout a part of its length. This sheath varies from about one- 

 third the length of the penis in the type lot, to about a half in that 

 from Nine-mile. The penis-papilla in transverse section (fig. 7, pp.) 

 shows a group of minute ducts, but there seems to be a single terminal 

 orifice. The vagina is longer in the types than in other lots ex- 

 amined. 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Measurements of genitalia in millimeters. 



[Feb.. 



In the alcoholic specimen from Nine-mile, the sole is tripartite by 

 faint longitudinal impressed lines, with a median groove due to partial 

 folding of the foot. There are transverse lines as shown in pi. Ill, 

 figs. 3 and 6. The granulation above is fine and pebble-like as usual 

 in Sonorella. The oesophagus is short, expanding into a large crop, 

 on which the loose and open salivary glands lie. The liver is reddish 

 purple. The buccal retractor and left ocular retractor are united in 

 their posterior third, the tail and right ocular retractors being free 

 to their common insertion. The lung is like that of Sonorella optata. 



In the specimens from Stations 3, 4 and 5, no longitudinal impressed 

 lines could be traced on the sole. 



The jaw varies a good deal; a specimen from the type lot has six 

 wide ribs. From Station 4 and Nine-mile the jaw has eight narrow- 

 ribs. 



All of the radulse examined agree in having decidedly fewer teeth 

 in a transverse row than S. hachitana flora or S. optata. 



Sonorella optata n. sp. PI. I, figs. 6-12, 17-19. 



The shell is umbilicate, umbilicus slightly less than one-seventh the 

 diameter, similar to S. hachitana. Pale brown, fading to whitish 

 around the umbilicus, encircled by a rather wide dark chestnut band 

 above the periphery, bordered above and below with paler, whitish 

 bands. The spire is low conic. Whorls 5 \, slowly increasing to the 

 last, which is much wider, and descends deeply in front. The embryonic 

 shell consists of H whorls. The first half whorl has radial wrinkles, 

 and begins in a smooth tip ; then a small areolate area follows, after 

 which there are curved, forwardly descending delicate threads reaching 

 the suture below, but weak or obsolete on the summit of the whorl, 

 which is irregularly roughened; there are also some forwardly ascending 

 threads in places. The first neanic whorl has sculpture of slight 

 growth ripples and an indistinct roughening or punctation. Subse- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



■quent whorls are lightly marked with growth-lines only. The aperture 

 is very oblique, subcircular; peristome thin, a little expanded, narrowly 

 reflexed below, the columellar margin dilated. Alt. 15, diam. 24 mm. ; 

 alt. aperture 11.7, width 13 mm. 



Penis small, usually shorter than the vagina, and less than one-third 

 as long as the spermatheca and duct. Epiphallus short, the flagellum 

 apparently absent or reduced to a very minute adnate ccecum (pi. IV, 

 figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7). Radula with 35, 1, 35 (summit of Cross J Mt.) 

 to 38, 1, 38 teeth, about 14 laterals, an ectocone appearing on the 

 11th to 13th. The entocone is bifid on the outer 15 to 18 marginals, 

 and the ectocone occasionally so on some teeth, though generally 

 simple. Six radulse from 5 stations examined. The jaw has 5 ribs in 

 two, 6 and 7 in two other examples. The crops and oesophagus as far 

 as the stomach are conspicuously sulcate or corrugated longitudinally. 

 Type locality, head of Big Emigrant Canyon at Station 1, on a steep 

 slope shaded by pinyons, under large stones (limestone). The species 

 occurs in numerous colonies throughout Big Emigrant Canyon, except 

 on slopes with southern exposure. See map on p. 121. 



This handsome species, like others of the hachitana group, is ill- 

 characterized as far as the shell is concerned, but the genitalia are 

 characteristic by the small penis and absence of a free flagellum. In 

 the Chiricahua Mountains it is related to S. bicipitis of the Dos Cabezas 

 range, but in that the penis is well developed and the flagellum, though 

 small, seems to be invariably present. In all of the numerous exam- 

 ples opened the crop and intestine to the stomach are deeply furrowed 

 longitudinally, a condition observed in no other Sonorella. To what 

 extent this corrugation may be due to the state of the specimens is 

 uncertain. It happened that by some unaccountable oversight all 

 of the Big Emigrant Sonorellas were cooked and pulled without 

 drowning, and then were preserved in alcohol too strong to give the 

 best results. 



All of the following colonies but one are on limestone. 

 Type locality, Station 1. Thirty adult specimens were taken, ten 

 of them alive. They measure as follows: 



Diam. in mm 26 25.3 25 25 25 25 24.8 24.8 



Alt. in mm 15.3 15 16.3 14.9 14.2 14.2 15 15 



Diam. in mm 24.3 24.3 24.3 24.2 24.2 24 24 



Alt. in mm 15 14.6 14.3 15 14 16 15.2 



Diam. in mm 24 (three) 24 24 24 (three) 23.3 23 



Alt. in mm 15 14.5 14.3 14 14 14 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Diam. in mm 23 23 23 23 22.8 



Alt. in mm 14 13.5 13.1 13 13.5 



The total variation in diameter in this colony is 3.2 mm. The 

 variation in altitude is comparatively greater, owing to the varying 

 degree of elevation of the spire. 70 per cent, of the lot are from 24 to 

 25 mm. in diameter. Figures 6-9 were drawn from specimens of the 

 type lot from this Station. 



Station 4. Cleft in the rocky summit of hill at fork of Big Emigrant 

 Canyon, facing mouth of canyon (pi. I, fig. 10). Ten specimens, two 

 alive, measure: 



Diam. in mm 26 25.5 25.5 25 25 25 24 23.7 23.3 23.3 



Alt, in mm 15 16 14.7 16 15 15 14.7 13.3 13 13 



They differ from the type lot in having the aperture barely per- 

 ceptibly larger, umbilicus smaller. In a specimen of the type lot 

 25 mm. in diam. the aperture measures 11.4x13.1 mm. In one of 

 the same diameter from Station 4 it is 12 x 13.4 mm. 



Spirally striate forms. — The shells from Stations 2, 3, 5, 6 — Big 

 Emigrant Mountain and Cross J Mountain — usually show numerous 

 spiral stria 1 on the upper surface of the last whorl, but this character 

 is variable; in some shells of each lot no spiral stria can be made out, 



Station 2. Close to the creek in the middle branch of Big Emigrant 

 Canyon, under stones. Three dead shells measuring 23.5, 22.3 and 

 21.8 mm., and similar to those from Big Emigrant Mountain. This 

 place is probably about 1,000 feet lower than the type locality. 



Station 3. Big Emigrant Mountain. This name is given to a 

 mountain about four miles above the fork of Big Emigrant Canyon 

 on the left side of the east branch. November 11 and 12 it was visited. 

 On the side toward the canyon, under a rocky bluff, under stones 

 among scrub oaks (Queixus hypoleucal) , in a situation resembling that 

 of Sonorella bowiensis, numerous specimens of a small form were 

 taken, almost all dead shells. Sixty-five adults taken measure in 

 diameter as follows : 



Diam. in mm 20.5 20 19.5 19.3 19 18.8 18.5 18.3 



No. of shells 11 4 1 6 4 7 6 



Diam. in mm 18 17.8 17.5 17.3 17 16.5 16 15.5 



No. of shells 7 4 4 5 7 3 4 1 



The shells are in the average more depressed than typical »S. optata. 

 The largest measures, alt. 10.5, diam. 20.5, aperture 9.2 x 11.2 mm. 

 Another, alt. 10.5, diam. 18.5, aperture 8.3 x 9.9 mm. There are 






1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



about 4+ whorls, the last with some spiral lines on the upper surface, 

 sometimes very faint. 



From the west side of Big Emigrant Mountain (pi. I, figs. 11, 12, 

 18, 19) a lot of 32 living adults was taken, of almost equally small 

 size (No. 94,320). 



Diam.inmm 21.4 20.5 20 19.75 19.5 19 18.7 18.3 



No. of shells 2 2 4 6 7 9 11 



The degree of elevation is somewhat variable. In one specimen 

 (pi. I, fig. 19) the dark band is wanting. This is the only case of 

 the kind among our Chiricahua Sonorellas. 



Another lot of 35 living adult shells from another place on Big 

 Emigrant Mountain average larger. 



Diam.inmm 23 22.5 22 21.5 21 20.5 20 19.8 19 



No. of shells 1 1 17 8 7 8 1 1 



Station 6, high in the valley north of Cross J Mountain, 42 adult 

 shells, most of them "dead," measure: 



Diam.inmm 22.8 22.5 22.3 22 21.8 21.5 21.3 21 20.5 20 



No. of shells 2 3 2 6 3 4 3 10 4 5 



Most shells show spiral lines, as in those from Big Emigrant Moun- 

 tain. The specimens were taken in the area indicated in the sketch 

 on p. 87, but similar dead shells were seen throughout the valley, on 

 both sides of the ravine. The rock of tliis valley is limestone. 



Eastward from this valley (.Station 6) a rugged ridge of coarse 

 crumbling granitic rock runs towards the mouth of the canyon (see 

 map). Five dead shells found on the outer side of the crest of this 

 ridge are like those from the valley, but smaller, diam. 18.5 to 20.5 

 mm. 



Station 5. Among rocks at and near the north side of the summit 

 of Cross J Mountain. The rock here is angular, friable and cherty. 

 The shells, 29 adults, mostly "dead," resemble the larger colony from 

 Big Emigrant Mountain, most of them showing fine spiral lines. The 

 elevation is estimated at 8,000 feet. See sketch on p. 87. 



Diam.inmm 23 22.8 22.2 22 21.8 21.5 



No. of shells 2 1 1 5 4 1 



Diam.inmm 21.2 20.8 20.5 20.2 20 19.8 



No. of shells 5 1 4 11 3 



Small form of S. optata (pi. I, fig. 17). Some very small specimens 

 were taken near the head of Big Emigrant Canyon south of Station 1 , 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



the exact spot not noted. Two living ones measure, alt. 9.8, diam. 

 16 mm., and alt. 9.2, diam. 16 'mm. 



A bleached shell was found at Station 2; alt. 11, diam. 18 mm. 



Soft anatomy of S. optata. Specimens from four colonies have 

 been dissected. In the type lot from Station 1, the sole is pale, 

 unicolored. In some other lots the narrow side areas are a shade 

 darker. The genitalia (pi. IV. fig. 1-4, 7) are characterized by the very 

 small penis and absence of a flagellum, verified in several examples 

 opened. The lung (fig. 4, right fig.) has venation much as I have 



Fig. 4. — Pallial region of Sonorella optata, two individuals. K, kidney; P, 



pericardium. 



described for S. ashmuni. The secondary ureter is open throughout, 

 being defined by a thread-like ridge only. Length of lung 26, of 

 kidney 14, of pericardium 5 nun. The foregut and crop are deeply 

 sulcate longitudinally. 



In specimens from the cleft in Big Emigrant Canyon (No. 94,321), 

 the penis is rather larger (pi. IV, fig. 4). It has a thin, rather short 

 basal sheath and long retractor. The penis-papilla is slender, cylin- 

 dric, weakly annulate, with obtusely conic end. There is an exces- 

 sively short ccecum representing the flagellum, not free from the 

 integument and hardly visible except by transmitted light. The 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



65 



crop and foregut are longitudinally sulcate. Salivary glands long, 

 united over the upper surface of the crop. 



The form from north side of Big Emigrant Mountain (Station 3, 

 No. 94,322) is similar. Genitalia (pi. IV, fig, 1) with long penis- 

 papilla, its end long-conic. Flagellum a barely perceptible bud bound 

 in the integument. Lung with venation typical or (in one of several 

 examined) the pulmonary vein has a large branch on the cardiac 

 side, where the venation is otherwise very faint. Length of lung 27, 

 of kidney 14, of pericardium 4.5 mm. (fig. 4, left fig.). The crop and 

 foregut are deeply sulcate longitudinally. No. 94,320, from west side 

 of Big Emigrant Mountain are similar. As usual in this species, the 

 penis-papilla has a somewhat glans-like end (fig. 2). 



No. 94,323, from summit of Cross J Mountain, has the sole pale 

 in the middle, shading into gray at the sides. No flagellum. Foregut 

 corrugated. The penis-papilla is obtuse, but the specimen is not 

 quite mature (pi. IV, fig. 7). A half-grown shell has very minute 

 genitalia (pi. IV, fig. 5) with a very short papilla. 



Measurements of genitalia of S. optata in mm. 



Locality 



Station 1, fig. 3 



Station 4, fig. 4 



Station 3, fig. 1 



Near Station 3, fig. 2 

 Station 5, fig. 7 



si 



a 



'3. 



a 



3.3 



3.5 



5 



5 



2.75 



a 

 o 

 fa 



10 + 

 7.5 



long 



OJ <s> 



a to 

 03 



25 



25.5 



18.5 



19.5 



20 



o 

 6 



3 



94,319 

 94,321 

 94,322 

 94,320 

 94,323 



Sonorella bowiensis Pils. PI. I, figs. 13-16. 



Sonorella hachitana bowiensis Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 260, pi. 

 XVIII, figs. 29-32 (shell); pi. XX, figs. 10, 11 (genitalia) ; pi. XXIII, fig. 

 22 (jaw). 



Forty-one living and twenty-eight dead adult specimens were taken 

 at the type locality in 1906. It is a very pretty shell, quite constant 

 in all its characters. 



The shell is somewhat transparent, pale corneous-brown becoming 

 lighter almost corneous-whitish near the umbilicus. There are 

 usually one or two obliquely radial whitish streaks on the last whorl. 

 The chestnut band above the periphery is about one millimeter wide, 

 is visible on 2^ to 3 whorls, and has a very faint paler border below, 

 hardly visible; no noticeable pale border above the band. Whorls 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



4^, rather slowly widening to the last, which is nearly double the 

 width of the preceding, and well rounded peripherally. The embryonic 

 shell consists of U whorls; the apex is smoothish; then a radially 

 wrinkled area follows to the end of the first half whorl; the next 

 whorl has forwardly descending delicate threads on its outer or per- 

 ipheral half, the inner half being irregularly, shallowly pitted and 

 roughened. The succeeding neanic whorls are lightly striate obliquely 

 and very slightly, minutely roughened. The last whorl descends 

 rather deeply in front . The umbilicus is contained about 5h times in the 

 diameter of the shell. The aperture is very oblique, peristome expand- 

 ed, the ends strongly converging, the columellar end dilated, slightly 

 impinging on the umbilicus. 



Measurements of seven specimens were given in our former paper, 

 with diameters of 15 to 17.8 mm. Sixty-nine adults taken in 1906 

 have the following diameter- : 



'r-> 



Diam. in mm 15 15.5 15.8 16 16.2 16.3 



No. of shells 4 3 2 22 2 7 



Diam. in mm 16.5 16.7 16.8 17 17.8 18 



No. of shells 5 4 6 12 1 1 



About 84 per cent, are from 16 to 17 mm. in diameter, and the 

 total range in diameter is only 3 mm. 18 Otherwise variation is seen 

 only to a very slight extent in the width and intensity of the band 

 and in the degree of deflection at the aperture. 



Type locality. — Quartzite Hill, back of Dixon's place, about a mile 

 south of old Fort Bowie. It has been found nowhere else. 



The locality was wrongly given as "Bowie" in our former paper. 

 Bowie is a station on the S. P. Railway about 15 miles from Fort 

 Bowie, and on the mesa where no snails live. Fort Bowie is now 

 deserted, and only the roofless adobe buildings and the cemetery 

 remain. 



Sonorella bowiensis was found only in one colony very limited in 

 extent but prolific in individuals. This colony — the only place where 

 we have ever found Sonorella in abundance — is in a small thicket of 

 long-leaved scrub-oaks with some underbrush of service berries 

 (Amelanchier sp.) under a low cliff, somewhat more than half way to 



18 The concentration around the diameters 16 and 17 mm. is partly due to 

 the fact that all shells more than 15.8 and less than 16.2 were counted as 16, 

 and similarly with 17, giving a wider range than with any intermediate measure- 

 ments. 




1910] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 67 



the summit of Quartzite Hill, back of Dixon's place, shown at (1) in 

 the photographic reproduction below. The snails were under 

 small stones and dead leaves. The abundant shelter and food and 

 favorable northeastern slope apparently led to an unusual multi- 

 plication of individuals, but no environmental factor seems to account 

 for their very small size. We searched the neighboring Bull Hill 

 thoroughly for Sonorella, but without success. Probably a more 

 extended exploration would result in finding other colonies in the 

 Fort Bowie Valley. Bowie Mountain and Helen's Doom should be 

 examined. 



The single locality of S. bowiensis lies between the ranges of S. 

 bicipitis and S. optnta. 



Fig. 5. — Quartzite Peak and Bull Hill, from the ridge on east side of the creek, 

 looking across Dixon's place, showing type localities of Sonorella bowiensis 

 (1) and Holospira cionella (2). 



S. bowiensis differs from S. bicipitis by the rounded end of the penis- 

 papilla and the actually and comparatively longer penis, over half 

 the length of spermatheca and duct, though the shell is smaller. The 

 shell differs by its smaller size and the faintness or absence of white 

 bands bordering the chestnut zone. 



The living animal is slate color on head and back, sides of foot pale 

 blue, borders of the foot orange; liver brown. In alcohol the back is 

 slate, sides, tail and sole whitish. The sole has slightly darker lateral 

 areas marked off with faint grooves. The crop is long and smooth. 



I have figured the genitalia of a specimen (pi. IV, fig. 6) for com- 

 parison with that previously published. The well-developed penis 

 has a long basal sheath, the lower part of the penis itself being quite 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



slender. The papilla is cylindric, somewhat more than one-third 

 the length of the penis, with a blunt, rounded end. The penis retractor 

 is long. The organs measure as follows: length of penis 12 mm.; 

 of penis-papilla 4.4 mm.; epiphallus and flagellum 12; flagellum 0.6; 

 vagina 10; spermatheca and duct 21.5 mm. The atrium is extremely 

 short. 



In its genitalia this species resembles S. binneyi from the southern 

 end of the range, and to a less extent S. rowelli. The embryonic 

 sculpture is like that of S. bicipitis, but the spirally protractive threads 

 are more numerous and closer. 



S. binneyi differs from S. bowiensis by the very much smaller penis, 

 only half the length of that of S. bowiensis in a larger shell; by the 

 different shape of the papilla, and the absence or very minute size 

 of the flagellum. The shell also is invariably larger than S. bowiensis, 

 even in the most arid situations. 



Sonorella binneyi n. bp. PI. II, figs. 13-18. 



The shell is depressed globose, narrowly umbilicate, quite thin but 

 moderately strong; pale brown with some whitish oblique streaks, 

 and fading to opaque white around the umbilicus, encircled with a 

 narrow chestnut band at the shoulder, narrowly showing above the 

 suture on the penultimate whorl. Surface slightly shining, marked 

 with fine, rather sharp growth-stria?. Whorls 4i, convex, the first 

 minutely roughened but without distinct pattern of sculpture. The 

 last whorl is very wide (viewed from above), inflated, rounded per- 

 ipherally, very convex beneatn. It descends in front. The aperture 

 is very large, strongly oblique, elliptical, the ends of the lip converging. 

 Peristome thin, very slightly expanded throughout, dilated at the 

 columellar insertion. 



Alt. 13, diam. 20; width of aperture 12.8, oblique alt. 11 mm.; width 

 of umbilicus 1 . 7 ram. 



Alt. 11.5, diam. 18 mm. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 16 mm. 



Horseshoe (Mo) Canyon, the types from Station 1, two miles up 

 the Canyon. Also found near the red box of Horseshoe Canyon. 



The genitalia (pi. Ill, fig. 5). The penis is somewhat longer than 

 the vagina. It contracts into a narrow neck at the base, and contains 

 a cylindric papilla, obtuse at the free end, and from one-sixth to about 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69' 



one-third the length of the penis. Epiphallus not very unlike the 

 penis in length. Flagellum as usual in the genus. The vagina is 

 short. Spermatheca oval, on a long duct. Two specimens of No. 

 97,414 measure: 



Length of penis 8 



" epiphallus 9 



" papilla 3 



" flagellum 1 



" " vagina 6 



" " spermatheca and duct 22 



The jaw has five ribs. The pericardium is about half as long as the 

 kidney. 



In its soft anatomy, this species resembles S. bowiensis Pils. and 

 also S. rowelli (Newc), but differs from the latter by having a dis- 

 tinct flagellum. The shell is more like S. rowelli, but differs from both 

 species by its more inflated contour and very large aperture. In 

 conchological characters the species is, for a Sonorella, very distinct, 

 and unlike other known Chiricahuan snails. 



The smallest specimen seen measures, alt. 8, diam. 13.5 mm. This 

 species is named in memory of William G. Binney. 



Group of Sonorella virilis. 



These forms are distinguished from all other Helices known to us 

 by the enormous length of the penis and its papilla, Sonorella rincon- 

 ensis, which has an equally long penis, but a comparatively short 

 papilla, is apparently the most nearly related species. All other known 

 Sonorellas have the penis short or of moderate length. All known 

 species of this group are Chiricahuan. The sculpture of the embryonic 

 shell resembles that of the group of S. hachitana, but usually the 

 pattern is very indistinct, 



Sonorella virilis Pils. PL II, figs. 1-6. 



S. virilis Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 266, with var. circumstriata, 

 p. 267. 



This species was described from a single shell which so far as we can 

 learn was probably taken in Rucker Canyon. The variety circum- 

 striatawas described from the talus at the foot of Reed's Mountain, 

 about a half mile below Reed's place, Station 11 in Cave Creek. The 

 series now available shows that this variety is scarcely distinct enough 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



for recognition, or at least that it is difficult to decide upon some 

 specimens. Figures 1, 2, 3 represent specimens from Station 11, at 

 the foot of Reed's Mountain, Cave Creek Canyon. Figs. 4, 5 are from 

 about two miles up the south fork of Cave Creek. All of these are of 

 the form circumstriata. 



Fig. 6 is from Spring branch near Rucker Camp, head of Rucker 

 Canyon. This shell, and others from the head of Rucker, has a broad 

 conspicuous white border above the brown band, a narrower one 

 below it; the brown band is broader than in Cave Creek shells. The 

 spire, viewed from above, is narrower, the last whorl therefore 

 wider. 



Specimens from further down Rucker have much less conspicuous 

 white bordere along the band, and are like the type of virilis. 



This species also occurs in Morse Canyon, tne foot of Bonito Canyon, 

 and Shake Gulch, and in Horseshoe Canyon near the Red Box. 



In the Cave Creek Canyon Valley it may be found almost anywhere 

 suitable rock cover exists, though there are large areas without it, 

 where the slope is slight or with southern exposure. Rock "slides" 

 or northern exposures with abundant rock are its chief haunts. It 

 was taken at Stations 3, 4, 5, 1 1 , 12, 13, 14, also near the branch leading 

 toward Paradise, in the ravines west of Reed's Mountain, and various 

 places throughout the South Fork as far a^ explored — about two 

 miles up. None were taken on the great ridge where Stations 6 and 7 

 are situated, or on the ridge marked 10. The valley south of the 

 stream from the falls has not been explored. The Sonorellas were 

 also found in a great rock slide (trachyte?) on the south side of a peak 

 near the sawmill, in Barfoot Park, Station 1, and in the head of the 

 adjacent canyon running westward. See map on p. 107. 



S. inrilis (circumstriata) was found also in Paradise Canyon about 

 two miles below Paradise, and in Pine Canyon. 



Variation. — There is the usual variation in degree of elevation of 

 the spire, and slight variation in ground color of the shell, in all of the 

 lots examined, but various colonies differ in size, as may be seen by 

 the table of measurements of specimens from four places. This size 

 variation is not in the least correlated with elevation, but is invariably 

 connected with the exposure to the sun. Thus it will be noted that 

 at Stations 1 and 12 the mode is at 18 mm. diameter, the total range 

 from 16 to 20 mm. Both of these stations are on sunny southern 

 slopes, Station 1 being Barfoot Park at an elevation of over 8,000 feet, 

 while Station 12 is only about 100 feet above the bottom of Cave 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



Creek, at an elevation of about 6,000 feet. These small specimens 

 contrast with those from Stations 13, from shaded slopes, where the 

 mode is at 20 to 20.5 mm., and the range from 17.75 to 21 mm. Large 

 shells occur at Station 11, at the shaded and humid base of Ried's 

 Mountain, about 6,000 feet elevation, and at the head of Pine Canyon, 

 at about 8,000 feet, also in a comparatively humid and well-shaded 

 situation. The shells from other places, while too few to be worth 

 tabulating, or to give reliable curves, support the above conclusions 

 as far as they go. 



Diameter in 

 mm. 



16 



16.25 



16.5 



16.75 



17 



17.25 



17.5 



17.75 



18 



18.25 



18.5 



18.75 



19 



19.25 



19.5 



19.75 



20 



20.25 



20.5 



20.75 



21 



22 '. 



Total 



Head 

 Sta. 1. Sta. 4. Sta. 11. Sta. 12. Sta. 13 Pine Canyon. 



1 



2 

 3 



4 

 5 



1 



1 

 3 



2 



i 



2 



5 



5 



i 



i 



l 

 l 



3 



5 

 1 



i 



2 



1 



1 

 2 



4 

 5 

 1 



i 



i 



2 

 1 



22 



11 



18 



16 



The sole, in alcoholic examples, is yellowish in the central field, the 

 lateral areas grayish, grooves rather indistinct. The back is blackish, 

 sides pale. 



Specimens from numerous lots were dissected, genitalia of two 

 being figured (pi. V. fig. 6, No. 94,335 from Station 13, South Fork of 

 Cave Creek, and fig. 4, No. 94,332, from Station 11, Cave Creek). The 

 penis is longer than in the original type specimen, but in about the 

 same proportion to the length of the vagina, which varies considerably. 

 This difference in length is perhaps due to the different modes of 

 preservation. The basal sheath of the penis and its retractor are 

 both quite short. The arcuate shape of the penis is due to its position 

 near the periphery of the last whorl when the animal is retracted. 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Measurements of the genitalia in millimeters. 



Species. 



1. 

 2. 

 3. 

 4. 

 5. 

 6. 

 7. 

 8. 

 9. 



S. virilis 



it 



It 



it 

 It 

 It 



S. r. leucura 



it 



a 



CL, 



o 

 S 



3 

 

 x 



3 

 S 



29 



30.5 



34 



30 



27 



28 



31 



2S.5 



0.7 

 1 



0.6 

 0.6 

 0.6 



23 



26.5 

 16 

 19.5 



31 

 24 





17 

 21 

 15 



26 



25 



94.335 

 94,332 

 79,622 

 97,409 

 97,409 

 97,408 

 94,331 

 99,682 

 99,681 



The specimens measured are from the following localities: 



1. South Fork of Cave Creek. 



2. Foot of Reed's Mountain, Cave Creek. 



3. Rucker Canyon (?). Original type of S. virilis. 



4. 5. Head of Rucker Canyon. 



6. Rucker Canyon at mouth of Raspberry Gulch. 



7. White Tail Canyon, Station 4. 



8. White Tail Canyon, Station 14. 



9. White Tail Canyon, Station 00. 



Sonorella virilis leucura subsp. nov. PI. II, figs. 7-9. 



The shell is decidedly more depressed than S. virilis or S. v. "circum- 

 striata," though the spire is about equally convex; the umbilicus is 

 wider; the aperture is smaller, and the ground-color is paler, sub- 

 opaque, whitish, tinted more or less with brown, nearly white on each 

 side of the dark band, and pale around the umbilicus. 



Embryonic and neanic stages. — There are If embryonic whorls. 

 The depressed tip is smoothish, followed by only a few radial wrinkles; 

 following embryonic whorl is roughened with low granules lengthened 

 in a radial direction, or short, irregularly waved or vermiculate radial 

 wrinkles ; over these there is a pattern of grains in regular squares at 

 first, but soon forming protractive rows, the grains becoming indis- 

 tinct. On the first post-nepionic whorl the fine striae are more or less 

 interrupted or minutely indented in places. The post-nepionic whorls 

 as far as the fourth whorl are clothed with very short deciduous hairs, 

 so delicate that the slightest attempt to clean the shell removes them, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



and they probably never persist in the adult stage. All immature 

 specimens taken by us in November, from diam. 10 mm. on, have 

 a strong callous rib within the lip-edge. 



Adult stage. — There are 4^ whorls in small, 4f in large individuals 

 of the type lot, slowly increasing at first, the last whorl seen from above 

 about twice as wide as the penultimate. The lip is blunt with rusty edge, 

 but not thickened within. The outer margin is slightly expanded, the 

 basal a trifle more so; parietal callus rather thick at the edge, straight. 

 The umbilicus contained about 5.2 times in the total diameter. Alt. 

 11.8, diam. 23.5 mm.; aperture 10 x 11.3 mm. 



Distribution: Southern side of White Tail Canyon, Chiricahua 

 Mountains, Stations 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 12, 14. Type locality, Station 

 No. 14. Also in Jhu Canyon. See map, fig. 6, p. 75. 



This is the only Sonorella on the southern side of White Tail Canyon, 

 living on steep slopes varying from northeast to north or northwest. 

 It occurs (in November) rather deep under rocks, and excepting on 

 the more arid slopes and ridges, colonies may be found where suitable 

 shelter occurs throughout the length of the canyon, generally rather 

 high on the slopes, but in at least one case only about 20 feet above 

 the bed of the canyon. The more favorable slopes, such as those 

 Stations 5, 14, 15 are situated on, are wooded with pinyon below, 

 oak and a few long-leaf pine above. The ridges and slopes with 

 southern or eastern exposure are barren or nearly so. The rock is 

 limestone, mostly with covering of earth and fine stone, and there are 

 no rock slides. Stations 1, 2, 4, and 9 are decidedly more arid and 

 barren than 5 and 14, Station 5 being near the bottom of a deep narrow 

 ravine, densely wooded, while Station 14 is on a steep shady northern 

 slope. The lots taken show that the shells respond to more favorable 

 conditions by reaching a larger size, as seen in the table of measurements. 



The shells from Station 5 have the spire somewhat more depressed 

 than any other lot. Those from near Jim Artels' old camp, near head 

 of White Tail not far from Station 1 , are the smallest. 



The table following shows the shells from high on the ridge (Stations 

 1 and 4) to be in the main smaller than those from the mid-slope ; but 

 this ridge becomes very dry above, with less shade, while the slope 

 lower down is well shaded on northwest exposures (caused by the 

 lateral washes and ravines, running northward), the northeast exposures 

 being for the most part barren. The size of individuals in the colonies 

 collected appear, therefore, to be related to the amount of shade and 

 moisture. 




74 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Measurements of 152 shells from six stations follow 



Sta. 5. 



Sta. 9. 



Sta. 14. 



1 

 2 



3 



10 



3 



2 



22 



22.25. 

 22.5... 

 22.75. 



23 



23.25. 



2 

 2 

 2 



4 

 3 



3 

 5 

 2 



1 



1 



26 



7 

 5 

 3 

 9 

 11 

 4 

 3 

 5 

 6 



i 

 i 



22 



56 



Soft anatomy. — Several specimens were dissected, from three 

 stations, 14, 4 and from near Station 1. The genitalia do not differ 

 from these organs in S. virilis circumstriata. Measurements may be 

 found on p. 72. An example from Station 4 (No. 94,331) is illustrated 

 (pi. V, fig. 5). It shows the penis kinked in a way unusual in the 

 species. 



The sole is tripartite in color, the central area, half the total width, 

 being pale isabelline, the side areas gray. The foot is gray above, 

 darkest on the back; top of the tail of a dirty yellow tint. 

 Sonorella micra n. sp. PI. II, figs. 10-12. 



The shell is small, thin, the umbilicus contained about five times in 

 the total diameter; pale brownish-corneous, a little paler around the 

 umbilicus, and with scarcely perceptible pale borders above and below 

 the dark chestnut band above the periphery; only slightly glossy. 

 Spire very low. The embryonic shell consists of 1^ convex whorls; 

 after the smooth apex, there are a few arcuate radial ripples ; and the 




1910.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



75 



Fig. 6. — Collecting stations in White Tail Canyon. 



rest of the embryonic shell has irregular rugosities or asperities, short, 

 but longest in a radial direction ; over these there are granules arranged 

 as in S. v. leucura. When absolutely unworn they bear delicate hairs 

 in young shells. The following post-embryonic whorls are delicately 

 striate, and as far as the beginning of the fourth whorl, fresh and 

 uncleaned young shells have close, short and very delicate hairs. The 

 last whorl has delicate growth-lines, but no trace of spiral stria?; it is 

 rounded at the periphery and descends a little in front. The aperture 

 is oblique, rounded. The peristome is thin, outer margin scarcely 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



noticeably expanded, basal margin somewhat more so; columellar 

 margin rather broadly dilated and brought forward. The parietal 

 callus is short, thin and transparent. 



Alt. 7.2, diam. 14.5 mm.; aperture 7.5 mm. wide, 7 high. Whorls 



4i 



Distribution: North side of White Tail Canyon, in slides of igneous 

 rock (rhyolite), at Stations 10, 11, 15, 16, 17. Type locality, Station 10. 

 See map on p. 75. 



This is the smallest Sonorella yet known from the Chiricahuas. It 

 is allied to S. virilis by the genitalia and the indistinct sculpture 

 pattern on the embryonic whorls, but differs by its diminutive size, 

 thin shell, comparatively narrower umbilicus and the absence of 

 distinct white borders along the brown band. 



S. micra occupies the north side of White Tail Canyon to the exclu- 

 sion of S. virilis leucura, which lives on the opposite or south side. 

 It lives in "slides" of angular, dark purplish-gray rock (rhyolite), 

 together with Ashmunella lepiderma, and can be found only deep in 

 the rocks, where they rest on the earth below. The slopes are mainly 

 toward the south and west, hence exposed to the direct sun, rarely 

 shaded to any extent by the small trees. The snails are found from 

 the bottom of the canyon (Station 11) to perhaps 6,800 feet (Station 

 16), where they occur over the crest of the ridge, in an extensive slide 

 sloping northward. The type locality, Station 10, is below the great 

 cliffs along Indian Creek. The lower stations are easily accessible, 

 but the higher call for arduous climbing and, from the nature of their 

 haunts, the work of quarrying the snails out is severe. We secured 

 but few living specimens, but many dead shells, more or less fresh, 

 show the species to be remarkably constant. Besides a slight varia- 

 tion in elevation of the spire, no variation in form is noticeable. 

 Measurements of two lots follow : 



Diam.inmm 12.75 13 13.25 13.5 13.75 14 14.25 



Station 10 1 12 7 4 



Station 17 10 4 4 10 4 



Diam.inmm 14.5 14.75 15 15.25 



Station 10 4 7 7 1 



Station 17 13 2 



On the southern side of the canyon we found a few dead specimens 

 among limestone rocks about 20 feet above the bed of the canyon, 

 below the junction of Indian Creek. They^agree fully with those 

 from the north side of the canyon. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



77 



S. micra occurs associated with Ashmunella lepiderma in the same 

 rock slides. Both are modified in the same manner, the shell differing 

 from allied species in being smaller, thinner, dull, with a greater or 

 less development of cuticular processes. The reduced size compared 

 with the species on the opposite side of the canyon is without much 

 doubt due to the sun-scorched exposure. We have not found that 

 living on igneous rock has any tendency to dwarf Sonorellas, though 

 the tenuity of the shell may fairly be attributed to that influence. 



The animal in alcohol is pale grayish, darker on the back. Sole 

 with the usual pale central area and slightly darker side areas, not 

 defined by lines. 



The genitalia of a drowned specimen in good condition from Station 

 10 is drawn in pi. V, figs. 1, 2. Unfortunately the penis was exserted 

 in all of this lot. Except in being smaller and more slender, the organs 

 resemble closely those of S. virilis. The penis in this figure is shown 

 partially everted, the long papilla (pp.) projecting. In fig. 2 the 

 epiphallus is shown partially uncoiled. The flagellum is well developed 

 for a Sonorella. PI. V, fig. 3, represents the organs of another speci- 

 men, from Station 17, with the penis normally retracted. The end 

 of the penis-papilla is shown in outline 



Measurements in millimeters of the genitalia of two specimens 

 follow : 



Genus OREOHELIX Pilsbry. 



The Chiricahua Mountains harbor two groups of Oreohelix with a 

 well-developed nearly black, green or yellow cuticle, so far unknown 

 elsewhere. In one of these, the barbata group, the shell is bi-convex, 

 with whorls of small calibre, a wide umbilical cavity and numerous 

 spiral wreaths of cuticular fringes. The other, the 0. clappi group, 

 has an orbicular shell usually banded, with large tubular whorls and 

 & smaller, rapidly diminishing umbilicus. In one of the forms both the 

 cuticle and the shell beneath possess well-defined spirals similar to 

 the cuticular fringes of O. barbata; but here the likeness ends. In 

 general appearance these Chiricahuan forms have little resemblance 

 to groups of Oreohelix in the Huachucas or elsewhere. The clappi 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



group further differs from the 0. strigosa group in possessing radially 

 costulate apical whorls. 



Snails of both of these groups live immured in the shaded rocks of 

 the mountain "slides," composed of broken rock or spawls tumbled 

 down from the peaks above. 0. clappi lives from 5,000 to 7,000 feet, 

 and O. barbata from 7,000 to 10,000 feet above the sea. The dead 

 shells are seldom found upon the surface. Oreohelix chiricahuana, in 

 the same mountain range, requires but little covering, and is found in 

 dry situations, often with but a single leaf or a small spawl for pro- 

 tection. It agrees with the Oreohelices of other regions in having a 

 very thin cuticle, often wanting. Dead agavas and yuccas furnish 

 a home for these, the Holospiras and Succinea avara; but 0. barbata 

 and O. clappi, the Ashmunellas and Sonorellas require an atmosphere 

 with more moisture, and dwell from one to two feet below the surface. 

 He who finds must dig. 



All Chiricahuan Oreohelices are confined to that range, and none 

 of them are closely related to species found elsewhere. All are con- 

 spicuously variable in each colony and in different colonies, nearly 

 every one of which shows a degree of racial differentiation, so that 

 one acquainted with these shells, even as imperfectly known at 

 present, could locate himself if lost in the Chiricahuas by digging for 

 ( )reohelices ! 



No adequate discussion of these shells can be entered into without 

 more and better illustrations than are possible to us at this time, and 

 long series of measurements. We have merely indicated briefly the 

 salient features of each colony. 



The Oreohelix clappi series. 



The group of local races which for taxonomic purposes is considered 

 to compose the species O. clappi comprises about a dozen colonies, 

 scattered over the range for a distance of about 44 miles. The 

 relationships of the snails of these colonies may be expressed dia- 

 gramatically thus : 



Emigrans — Onion Creek — Reed's Mt. — type Cataracta 



Horseshoe — Shake Gulch — Rucker Box 



The forms toward the left in this diagram are successively more 

 roughly sculptured, toward the right they are smoother. The type 

 happened to be of intermediate character, and near the central point 

 of the range of the species. The upper line forms a variation-series 

 extending from Big Emigrant Canyon {emigrans) to the Falls of 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



79 



Cave Creek (cataracta). The lower line Is a similar but independent 

 chain from the southern canyons, a considerable distance from the 

 nearest of the more northern group. 



From Big Emigrant Canyon to Shake Gulch the Stations mentioned 

 above run in a general direction from northwest to southeast. From 

 the emigrans station to Onion Creek station is about 16 miles; 

 thence to Cave Creek, 4; to Cave Creek Falls (var. cataracta), 2; to 

 Rucker Box, 12; to Shake Gulch, 12. Total, 44 miles as the crow 

 flies; but it is 55 by trail. 



One peculiarity runs throughout the entire clappi series: they are 

 hard to catch. Except at Onion Creek the} r were grouped in small 

 families and the families did not seem to be upon speaking terms. 

 They were clannish and confined their travels to one particular rock 

 slide. In only two instances was the same form found in two slides of 

 rock, though the rocks were well explored for miles around. At Onion 

 Creek they were plentiful; about 100 were collected there in an hour. 

 Oreohelix clappi emigrans n. subsp. 



This shell is similar in outline to 0. clappi, but more sharply angular 

 at the periphery, or even carinate in front. Cuticle thicker, rough, 

 usually persistent, dark olive brown in color, lusterless, not banded, 

 coated and caked with a deposit of humus. The sculpture after the 

 embryonic shell consists of oblique, uneven, rather sharp striae, and 



Fig. 7. — Oreohelix clappi emigrans. 



on the last whorl some coarse wrinkles. The striae are sharper than 

 in 0. clappi and close together up to the last whorl; on the base they 

 are thread-like, crimped and waved at the intersections of four or five 

 circular rows of short cuticular appendages, which are usually retained 

 only on the latter part of the base. In immature shells the thread- 

 like striae are surmounted by delicate cuticular laminae, more or less 

 felted together by the adhering dirt. The aperture is rounded- 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



piriform, the lip margins converging, thickened at the ends and 

 connected by a thin film across the parietal wall. Interior bluish 

 white. Alt. 9, diam. 16 mm., whorls 5. 



Big Emigrant Mountain, on the south side of Big Emigrant Canyon, 

 at about 7,000 feet elevation, taken in some numbers in a shattered 

 column of stone and also in a rock slide. This place is about 20 miles 

 across the mountains northwest from the Cave Creek Station for 

 O. clappi. 



O. c. emigrans is the dirtiest of the group — in its natural state as 

 black as the soil. It is well distinguished by the sculpture, and would 

 be considered a separate species in a less variable group than Oreohelix. 



Oreohelix clappi Ferriss. 



Oreohelix clappi Ferriss, Nautilus, XVIII, p. 53 (Sept., 1904). Pilsbry, 

 Proc. A. X. S. Pliila., 1905, p. 285. pi. 25, figs. 54-56 (shell); pi. 19, fig. 8 

 (genitalia); pi. 22, fig. 4 (teeth); pi. 23, fig. 26 (jaw). 



The shell is moderately depressed, with tubular whorls and deep 

 suture, the altitude about two-thirds t he diameter and about equally con- 

 vex above and 1 >el< >w the peripheral angle. The umbilicus at the opening 

 is about one-sixth the diameter and contracts rapidly, only the penul- 

 timate whorl visible. Calcareous layer of the shell is brownish white 

 under a thin greenish-yellow cuticle with some darker oblique streaks, 

 which become in mature shells darker and crowded near the aperture. 

 Many possess two indistinct transparent olive spiral bands, one above, 

 the other just below the periphery. In old individuals the cuticle 

 remains only in ragged shreds. The first \\ embryonic whorls are 

 strongly ribbed radially; these riblets are regular and narrower than 

 their intervals. At the end of the embryonic shell the whorl slightly 

 widens abruptly, with sculpture of rather coarse irregular obliquely 

 radial wrinkles and traces of fine spiral striae. The last whorl has 

 unequal, irregularly spaced oblique wrinkles, iccak and loic at the base, 

 which is densely covered with minute wavy spiral stria?, obsolete in old 

 individuals. Where the wrinkles pass over the angular periphery they 

 are sometimes somewhat more emphatic, a little pinched up. There 

 are no spaced circular threads or cuticular fringes on the base. Whorls 

 4f, convex, the last double the width of the preceding. Base very 

 convex. The aperture is very shortly ovate or nearly circular, very 

 oblique, and about one-half the diameter of the shell. The ends of the 

 lips converge. The short parietal callus is a thin transparent film, or 

 in old shells the peristome is continuous, as a raised parietal ledge. 

 Old age is expressed by a deeper descent of the last whorl and closer 

 approach of the lip margins, as usual in the genus Oreohelix. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Seven fully adult shells of the original lot measure : 

 Alt. 10, diam. 15 mm. 



This exact form has been found only at the type locality on the 

 south side of Cave Creek below the place marked Camp on the map, 

 p. 107, where it was taken in 1904, deeply imbedded in rotten shale near 

 the water's edge. About 30 specimens. 



In its native state 0. clappi is covered with humus, perhaps attached 

 by mucus. But few specimens were found except in the type Station. 

 Its habit of burying deeply in the soil probably accounts for its rarity. 



Elsewhere in Cave Creek Canyon a slightly different form (see 

 below) was found in 1906 at Stations 9, 11, 12, near 13, 14 and in the 

 ravine west of Reed's Mountain. These stations are all near the 

 bottom of the canyon. It was not found higher up. Here it occurs 

 with Sonorella, Ashmunella chiricahuana, A. ferrissi and A. angiilata. 



2. Lower Cave Creek Form. — The shells taken in 1906 at Stations 

 9, 11. 12 and near 13, 14, Cave Creek, are slightly more angular at 

 the periphery than the types, and the growth-wrinkles bear short 

 cuticular lamellae where they pass over the peripheral angle in fresh 

 and unrubbed individuals not fully mature. Often, but not always, 

 there are three circular rows of inconspicuous granules at wide, equal 

 intervals on the base, a weak or vanishing development of the basal 

 sculpture of 0. c. emigrans. The two brown bands (one at the outer 

 third of the upper surface of the last whorl, the other below and near 

 to the peripheral angle) are usually more distinct than in the type 

 lot of clappi. A small series of fully adult shells from Station 12 

 measure : 



Alt. 9, diam. 15.5 mm. 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



3. Onion Creek Form. — This form resembles the second form from 

 Cave Creek and 0. c. emigrans in shape. Compared with 0. clappi the 

 whorls are natter, less convex, sutures not so deep. The last whorl 

 invariably falls to the aperture further below the angle of the preceding 

 whorl, and the peripheral angle continues strong as far as the lip-edge. 



Cuticle thin, persistent, not ragged or broken, light greenish olive, 

 lustreless, with occasional dark oblique lines, which, near the aperture, 

 become crowded. It is seldom banded spirally and then the bands 

 are indistinct, obscure brown and transparent. The growth-striae are 

 sharper, more distinct than in Cave Creek clappi. It is very densely 

 and distinctly striated, spirally. Oblique waved riblets and traces of 

 spiral wreaths on the base, as in 0. c. emigrans, are shown in young 

 shells, and sometimes upon the penultimate whorl of the mature 

 shell within the aperture, but seldom pei'sistent upon the exterior. 

 There are nearly 5 whorls. The aperture is pear-shaped, its upper 

 margin nearly straight (consequent upon the flatness of the whorls); 



Fig. S. — Oreohelix clappi, lower Cave Creek, Station 12. 



not arched, as in typical 0. clappi. The smaller shells measure about 

 8.8 X 15 mm.; the largest in about one hundred specimens measure: 



Alt, 1(H, diam. 17^ mm. 



10i, 

 10*, 



10, 



m, 



17 



17 

 17 

 16 



Found at the head of the main fork of Onion Creek, a branch of 

 Turkey Creek, on the north side of the range. It was found in a shat- 

 tered column of quartzite in company with Ashmunella, Sonorella, 

 Succinea avara and two rattle-snakes, Crotalus pricei and C. lepidus. 

 Oreohelix chiricahuana dwelt in the limestone over the ridge, less than 

 a half mile distant. The station is about 4 miles from the locality 

 of 0. clappi and 16 from that of 0. c. emigrans, and upon a direct 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



line between the two. This is the greenest in color of the group, the 

 texture of the cuticle is the most harsh and it is the largest in diameter. 



4. Form from Rucker Canyon. — The sculpture in this form is 

 weak, the oblique wrinkles smooth, in part effaced, and lower on the 

 base; spiral striation weak or subobsolete, hardly noticeable above. 

 Cuticle glossy, persistent, varying from rather bright green or greenish- 

 yellow to brownish-olive, the two brown bands distinct. There are 

 sometimes two fainter bands, one above, the other on the base. The 

 last whorl is only very obtusely angular, the angle, well rounded, usually 

 falls less in front than in the Onion Creek lot. The aperture is con- 

 spicuously longer than in typical 0. clappi; upper margin decidedly 

 arched. In old shells the lip-ends approach closely, but are not 

 connected as in the typical 0. clappi, the callus between them remaining 

 thin and transparent. 



Up to 3+ whorls the young carry five strong cuticular fringes below, 

 one at the periphery and one above. The cuticle in larger shells is 

 smooth. 



The largest in 45 measured : 



This is the handsomest of the group in color and, with the exception 

 of 0. c. cataracta, the smoothest, the base being polished with somewhat 

 of a varnish-like gloss. The last whorl is even more rounded per- 

 ipherally than in typical 0. clappi. In 1908 it was found in a deep 

 gulch, the "box" of Rucker Canyon, at about 8,000 feet elevation, 

 on both sides of the stream in sliding rock, where the atmosphere was 

 as moist as the stations on Cave Creek, about 12 miles distant. It is 

 a near neighbor with O. barbata, a small form of the latter being plenti- 

 ful at the twin caverns in the box, while O. clappi was found half a 

 mile farther down the stream. 



5. Shake Gulch Form. — The shell is sharply angular peripherallv, 

 the angle becoming obtuse near the lip; whorls flattened above; 

 cuticle dull, lusterless, persistent, obscure olive at the base, the upper 

 surface with a russet suffusion, peristome black-bordered. There are 

 one or two faint bands. The surface is obliquely, rather obtusely, 

 wrinkled, the base distinctly striate spirally, growth-lines low, not 

 waved. The sculpture of the embryonic shell is very weak, and 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



seems closer than usual. Unfortunately, no young examples were 

 taken. 



This form is usually more depressed than that from Onion Creek, 

 with less sharp oblique sculpture. It resembles the remote Onion 

 Creek colony in the lusterless cuticle. Fourteen of about 20 shells 

 taken measure: 



Alt. 9, diam. 15.5 mm. (4 specimens) 



" 9, " 15.7 " 



" 9. " 14.7 " 



" 10, " 14.5 " (senile form). 



" 9.5, " 16.7 " 



" 9, " 14.5 " 



" 10, " 17 



" 9.5. " 17 



" 9.5, " 16.5 " 



" 9.75, " 16 



" 9.5, " 16 



Shake Gulch, where these shells were found, is on the southwest 

 side of the range at about 5,500 feet elevation about 12 miles from the 

 Rucker "box." 19 They live in a rock slide near the stream. 



6. Horse-shoe Canyon Form. — Similar to the preceding except 

 that the peripheral angle is less acute; between the Shake Gulch and 

 Rucker lots in form. Fragments of a long cuticular fringe remain in 

 ■places in the suture from the third whorl to near the aperture, but 

 there are no spiral series of granules or cuticular prominences on the 

 base, thereby differing from O. c. emigrans, and like the forms geo- 

 graphically nearest. Only two collected, both adult, measuring 

 alt. 9, diam. 16 nun. 



Found in Horse-shoe Canyon about ten miles from the mouth, in 

 slide rock, on the opposite side of the main fork from the Red Box, 

 at about 7,000 feet elevation. Both shells taken were freshly dead. 



Oreohelix clappi cataracta n. subsp. 



The shell is depressed, nearly lens-shaped; periphery strongly angular, 

 bright olive green, thin, polished, translucent, occasionally marked 

 with two transparent bands ; 4h whorls, the last wider than in clappi, 

 with the periphery near the flattened top, base strongly convex. 

 Aperture nearly all below the periphery. Parietal callus short, 



19 Shake Gulch is so named from the circumstance that "shakes" (split 

 shingles) are there made from the cypress. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



merely a thin film 911 the penultimate whorl. Cuticle .smooth and 

 without "fringes" in young or old, very delicately striated spirally; 

 sculpture of the embryonic whorl delicate, usually worn off. 

 Probably only the first of those measured is mature: 



Alt. 6.1, diam. 13.8 mm. 

 " 6|, " 12 



u 6> u 12 



" 6*, "11 



" -5, " 11 



Found at the Cave Creek Falls in broken rock sprayed by the falls, 

 and near the water's edge, in company with a very small form of 



Fig. 9. — Oreohelix clappi cataracta P. and F. 



Ashmunella chiricahuana. It was also found occasionally among 

 the rocks higher up the slide with 0. barbata and Ashmunella angulata. 

 About 25 were found in two visits to the stations. None were alive, 

 but some perfectly fresh. It is probably a deep burrower. This is the 

 only station where 0. barbata and 0. clappi were found together. 



0. c. cataracta is quite a distinct race. The green, polished base 

 reminds one of Omphalina. It is the smoothest and most depressed 

 form of 0. clappi. 



Oreohelix ehiricahuana Pilsbry. Fig. 10. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 283, pi. XI, figs. 1-3 (shell), pi. XIX, fig. 4 

 (genitalia), pi. XXIII, fig. 24 (jaw). 



The range or this species extends from Emigrant Canyon to Lime- 

 stone Mountain, a distance of about 50 miles. Its range is mark- 

 edly discontinuous towards the north and south ends, but from White 

 Tail to Cave Creek Canyons the colonies are not widely separated. 

 It is always found on limestone, never where the country rock is meta- 

 morphic or igneous. 



The several races differ as follows : 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb. 



tt. — .Sculpture of sharp fine striae along the lines of growth, conspicuous 

 on the base, where there are also spiral stria? and some widely 

 spaced larger spirals. 

 b. — Shell smaller, diameter about 11 mm., whorls -H to 5; peripheral 



keel well expressed 0. ehiricahuana. 



b 1 . — Shell larger, diameter about 14 nun., whorls 5^; peripheral keel 

 strongly projecting, the whorl hollowed above and below 



it 0. c. percarinata 



a 1 . — Sculpture obsolete, the oblique stria? course and blunt, the base 

 especially much smoother; spiral sculpture weak or wanting; 

 diameter usually 12 to 15 mm., whorls 5^ to 5i 0. c. obsoleta. 



The type locality is on the slope with southern exposure below the 

 cave in Cave Creek Canyon, Station S on map, p. 107. The dry 

 ravine has steep sides of steeply dipping, more or less calcareous shale 

 and earth formed by its. decomposition. The dead shells are profusely 

 scattered; living onas are under dead mescal (Agave), sot ol (Dasyli- 

 rion) and bear-grass, with Thysanophora horni, Succinea avara, Vitrea 



Fig. 10. — 0. ehiricahuana, Cave Creek, Fig. 11 — 0. c. percarinata P. and F., 

 Station 8. Cross J Mountain 



indentata and Holospira. The colony here is about 250 yards long 

 and perhaps 100 wide in the widest place. The shells are very uniform 

 in size: 



Alt 6 6.8 6.5 6.5 6.8 6.8 mm. 



Diam 11.1 11 11 11 10.5 11.5 mm. 



The shells are white, with the earlier whorls flesh-tinted, a faint 

 fleshy-corneous band at the outer third of the top of the last whorl, 

 which has two grayish or fleshy corneous bands on the outer half of 

 the base or a general fleshy corneous suffusion there. A scalariform 

 mutation rarely occurs. 



From the cave we found large colonies at intervals westward nearly 

 to the western rim of the valley, at Stations 5, 6 and 7 on map, p. 107. 

 At Station 5, on a steep north slope along the creek, under rocks, 

 about 3 miles west of the cave, the shells are similar but larger, 12 to 

 13 mm. in diameter. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



At Station 6, about half way up the north side of the limestone 

 ridge, the shells were like those from the cave in size, but somewhat 

 whiter, more calcareous. Near and at the top of the ridge, along the 

 southern side, east and west of station 7, 0. chiricahuana is widely 

 distributed. The shells here are like those from Station 6, but smaller, 

 the largest 10 mm. in diameter. This colony is probably 1,500 feet 

 higher than the cave. The smaller size of the shells from Station 7 

 may probably be correlated with a dryer and hotter habitat. How far 

 down the south slope it extends we did not learn. We found 0. 

 chiricahuana now r here else in Cave Creek Canyon, nor has the typical 

 form been encountered elsewhere. 

 Oreohelix chiricahuana percarinata a. subsp. Fig. 11. 



The shell is larger than typical 0. chiricahuana, whitish, clouded 

 and suffused with flesh color, depressed, with a compressed, projecting 

 peripheral keel, the last whorl excavated, concave above and below 

 the keel, elsewhere strongly convex. Striatum oblique, rather coarse 

 and quite irregular above, sharper and strongly arcuate below. Spiral 



Sfa£Z*>is S 



Fig. 12. — Summit Cross of J Mountain, seen from the mouth of Big Emigrant Can- 

 yon, at X on map, p. 121. Entire range of 0. c. percarinata shaded. At 

 Station 5 and over much of the slope around Station 6, Sonorella optata 

 was found. High granitic spur on left. 



threads few and fine or wanting on the upper surface; on the base 

 there are two to four major spirals at wide intervals, with fine spiral 

 threads over the whole base. The last whorl rarely falls far below 

 the carina at the aperture. Alt. 8, diam. 14 mm. ; whorls 5^. 



Summit of Cross J Mountain near the mouth of Big Emigrant 

 Canyon, Station 5 on map, p. 121. November 12, 1906. This locality is 

 farther north than any other known colony of Oreohelix in the Chiri- 

 cahua range. The Oreohelices were found around the summit, which 

 is probably about 7,500 feet elevation, and along the ridge northward, 

 down about 500 feet, but not in the valley (Station 6), where Sonorella 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



lives. This slope of the mountain is limestone, becoming cherty 

 above, but the summit is angular, friable quartzite (?), among the 

 fragments of which the Oreohelices live. None were found on the 

 ridge running toward the mouth of the canyon, which is composed 

 of a disintegrating, coarse-grained granitic rock. There is little vege- 

 tation of any kind on the upper part of Cross J Mountain. The 

 station is rocky, barren and exposed. The snails are moderately 

 abundant, though living ones are hard to get. 



Paradise Canyon. On the south side, about two miles below the town 

 of Paradise, Oreohelix was found in some abundance, but owing to the 

 snow which covered the ground at the time we camped there (November 

 20) but few living examples were taken. The form is almost identical 

 with that of Cross J Mountain, the adult differing only in having the 

 radial striation on the base a little more regular, and the major spirals, 

 of w T hich there are three or four, often somewhat stronger, though in 

 some shells they are hardly noticeable. In young and half-grown shells 

 a thin cuticular thread runs along the summit of each of the striae, 

 and at the intersections of the major spirals these threads rise in 

 short triangular processes. This feature was not observed in the 

 shells from Cross J Mountain. 



Another similar lot was taken on the northern slope of the canyon. 

 These places are probably not far from the 6,000 feet contour, being 

 thus much lower than Cross J Mountain. 



The separation of these colonies from the Cross J Mountain colony 

 of 0. c. percarinata probably indicates independent evolution of 

 the same characteristics, since an area occupied by 0. chiricahuana 

 obsoleta lies between Big Emigrant and Paradise Canyons. 



Oreohelix ohiricahuana obsoleta n. subsp. Fig. 13. 



In White Tail Canyon, this form of 0. chiricahuana was taken at 

 Stations 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14 — all on the southern side except 3, 

 which is just over the crest of the ridge on the Pinery side. The 

 sculpture is rather rude and blunt, the striation less sharp than in 

 the Cave Creek form, being effaced or subobsolete especially on the 

 base where spiral lines are wanting or rarely weakly indicated, while 

 Cave Creek chiricahuana has sharp, subregular striation and distinct 

 spirals. Two or three inner whorls are brown, the rest being white 

 with some faint gray streaks and scattered dots. Whorls 5| to 5| 

 (4^ in typical chiricahuana), the last carinated as in chiricahuana. 

 The shape varies from typical to decidedly more elevated, and the size 

 everywhere exceeds that of Cave Creek shells. A series from the 

 typical Station 14, where it is abundant, measures: 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



89 



Alt 9.7 



Diam 15 



Whorls 5i 



Alt 



Diam.... 

 Whorls. 



10 

 14.2 



In these shells the peripheral angle is about as in Cave Creek types, 

 but the base is smoother, 

 the striation nearly 

 effaced, and spiral striae 

 are wanting or very rarely 

 a few may be faintly 

 seen under the keel. 

 Shells from Stations 

 1,2,6,7,8, 12 agree with 

 those from 14. These 

 stations are on rather 

 steep slopes with gener- 

 ally northern exposure, 

 and from somewhat 

 over 6,000 to about 7.000 

 feet elevation. The 



distribution over this 

 area is nearly or quite 

 continuous. 



At Station 3, just over 

 the crest of the ridge, on 

 the Pinery Canyon side, 

 probably a little over 

 7,000 feet elevation, the 

 shells are smaller, 11.8 

 to 13 mm. diameter; 

 otherwise similar. This 

 station is very high and 

 exposed, on a sunny 

 slope, hence extremely 

 dry and arid; but the 

 following record shows 

 that mere elevation is 

 not a factor of impor- 

 tance. On the south side 

 of White Tail Creek, only 



Fig. 13.— O. c. obsolete P. and F. A, White Tail, 

 Station 14; B,C, Limestone Mountain. Drawn 

 10 and 11. 



to same scale as figs. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



a few feet above the bed of the canyon, at and below the month of 

 Indian Creek, the shells are equally small, 12 to 13 mm. in diameter. 

 The station is deficient in herbage, more barren than higher up the 

 slopes. 



In the Box Canyon of White Tail we found a colony which differed 

 from all other lots of the White Tail region in sculpture, the striation 

 being distinct and rather sharp on the base, as in typical chiricahuana, 

 and with very weak traces of fine spiral lines. The peripheral keel 

 projects more, approaching the shape of the race from Big Emigrant 

 Canyon; otherwise the shape, size and number of whorls is as in 

 0. c. obsoleta. The conditions at this station were unfortunately not 

 noted particularly. 



No specimens of this shell were taken by Ferriss and Daniels in 1907, 

 as they did not explore the limestone ridges. In 1908 Ferriss and 

 Pomeroy found it again in Hand's Pass, over the range from White 

 Tail, in the head of Pinery Canyon. 



The embryonic shell is strongly, regularly ribbed. The shell has 

 b\ whorls, rounded, arcuate, keel nearly obsolete near the aperture 

 in mature shells; aperture nearly round, the angle formed by the 

 peripheral keel hardly perceptible. 



Alt 101 ioi lei 10 8f 



Diam 16 14+ 14+ 15+ 14 



They were found for several miles upon both sides of the trail in 

 the scattered stone upon the hillsides and around the cliffs. 



In the head of Mackey's Wash, sloping to the north, a few were 

 found, but no aged shells. The major spirals upon the under surface 

 are represented by very low, obtuse ridges. The keel becomes very 

 obtuse on the last whorl near the aperture. O. c. obsoleta was also found 

 in the head of Onion Creek (between Paradise and Jhu Canyons). 



In 1907 Mr. Ferriss passed over the wide part of the range from 

 Paradise to the mouth of Rucker Canyon and Shake Gulch, some 

 25 miles from the Cave Creek Station, and here again O. c. obsoleta 

 (fig. 13 b, c) was found in a foothill known as Limestone Mountain, 

 about ten miles in length and some 7,000 or 7,500 feet above the sea. 

 These are the largest specimens so far found, thick and rounded, 

 opaque white or pink-white and very little clouded. The wrinkles 

 w T ere coarse but obtuse upon the upper surface, the base smooth, 

 without a trace of spiral lines. 



Alt 11 10i 11 12 9 



Diam 16i 16 15+ 15+ 15 



Whorls 5+. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



In "Canyon No. 3" (not knowing a better name) the shells were 

 sometimes specked with transparent clots. 



Alt 



Diam 16J 



Hi 



161 



Hi 



16 



10i 



16 



10 

 15* 



Limestone Mountain is thickly covered with juniper, mountain 

 mahogany and other trees and shrubbery, for it is in a U. S. Forestry 

 Preserve. The shells were found in the upper part of the mesa before 

 the rough ground was reached, in company with Holospira, but small 

 in size. As the hill became higher the shells were larger and more 

 numerous. Here also was found a toothed form of Ashmunella and 

 also Pupa? and other of the smaller species. The mountain is composed 

 entirely of limestone, upon the northern slope at least. Rocky cliffs 

 and talus gave the snails ample shelter. Between this station and the 

 Cave Creek Station, about 25 miles distant, there are no limestone 

 exposures and no Oreohelix chiricahuana. 



Oreohelix barbata Pils. PI. VI, Figs. 1-3. 



Oreohelix barbata Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 280, pi. 25, figs. 57, 

 58 (shells); pi. 19, figs. 5 (genitalia); pi. 22, fig. 6 (teeth). 



. Twenty colonies of this species have been found, all between the 



head of the southeast fork of Pinery 



Canyon and the Rucker "box," at 



elevations of not less than 7,000 feet, 



and within a distance of twelve miles 



in length and two to three miles in 



width. They dwell upon all sides of 



these high peaks in the rock slides or 



talus, and among the rocks upon the 



slopes of the gulches and ravines. Ferriss and Daniels found the most 



robust specimens living under from two to three feet of rock well 



covered over with sod, with the most perfect specimens of Ashmunella 



chiricahuana, a toothed Ashmunella, Sonorella, virilis and the little 



mountain rattle-snake, Crotalus pricei. In Cave Creek Canyon they 



often occur under one or two feet of rock. 



In their own territory Ashmunella, Sonorella and the other forms of 

 Oreohelix are usually to be found wherever the conditions are favorable ; 

 but it is not so with O. clappi and O. barbata. These snails are found 

 only by chance, in isolated colonies, and these colonies are usually 

 divided into families, the old pair and their spring crop of all sizes 

 when not fully matured live together. 



Every colony as a rule has some peculiarity. 0. barbata ranges 



Fig. 14. — O. barbata, denuded shell 

 from Cave Creek, Station 4. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



in color from pale greenish to dark reddish brown, some with wide 

 indistinct red bands. Many lose their fringes and part of the cuticle 

 before maturity. In (me colony the shells were entirely naked. The 

 rows of cuticular fringes vary in number from five to ten. In size, 

 the shells are from 1-U mm. diameter down to 10 mm. in the race 

 minima. Elevation above the sea apparently does not control size. 

 The smaller forms usually dwell at 10,000 feet, and the largest at 

 7,000, but a pigmy form was found at the lowest altitude, and the 

 most robust at about 8.500 feet. 



The deflection or dropping of the last whorl at the aperture is not 

 uniform or consistent in any colony, but it has significance in connec- 

 tion with the proportion of individuals so modified. In some colonies, 

 as that in Cave Creek, the last whorl as a general rule drops very little, 

 while in Barfoot Park it usually descends deeply. 



In Cave Creek Canyon this species is confined to the border and 

 slope of the western escarpment. Ferriss (1904) took the types in 

 the talus half a mile below the falls of Cave Creek. These have 4£ 

 whorls, and are pale greenish ; the cuticular laminae light russet. There 

 are four to six, usually five, circular wreaths of triangular cuticular 

 scales, one small one being midway between periphery and suture, 

 but often wanting, one at periphery, and three or four on the base. 



The last whorl is strongly angular throughout, and usually does not 

 descend very deeply in front. Parietal callus thin and moderately 

 long. 



Alt. 7, diam. 13.5 mm., not including cuticular processes. 

 " 5, " 12 mm. 



In 1906 we found almost similar specimens at Station 4 (marked by 

 two dots on the map, p. 107), darker in color, with sometimes as many as 

 eight cuticular wreaths, sharply carinated or angular at the periphery. 

 These were on a well-shaded northern slope, under rocks in a coarse talus. 

 This place is two or three hundred feet above the bed of the "wash" 

 and about one hundred below the cliffs, just opposite a little grove 

 of aspens among the oak scrub, which form a conspicuous landmark 

 near the head of the "wash," from their rarity in this canyon. The 

 snails here had been preyed upon by the mice. 



In Turkey Creek near the head of one of the eastern branches at 

 an elevation of about S.500 feet, Ferriss and Daniels took fully devel- 

 oped examples in 1907 (pi. VI, figs. 1, 2, 3). The shells are strongly 

 angular to the aperture, and measure 13 to 14^ mm. diameter, with 

 4£ to 4f whorls. They have 7 beautifully developed wreaths, in the 

 best preserved individuals. The last whorl drops fully 2 mm. at the 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



aperture. They were found in a talus upon an eastern slope of a 

 steep mountain side, and possessed the best developed, longest and 

 most persistent cuticular wreaths. 



A second colony in the head of one of the eastern forks of Turkey 

 Creek, found in 1908, approaches more closely the Barfoot Park series. 

 The shell is greenish under a pale brownish cuticle with a red band; 

 five short cuticular wreaths ; last whorl drops 1 mm. ; margins of aper- 

 ture connected by thick callus. Diam. 12, alt. 7 mm. 



These snails live in numerous colonies around the region of the 

 Falls of Cave Creek and the heads of the branches northward as far as 

 Turkey Creek. As the original photographic figures do not show the 

 shape clearly, a new figure has been drawn (fig. 14) of a shell denuded 

 of cuticular fringes, from Cave Creek, Station 4. 



Blunt-edged Variety. — In Barfoot Park, Rustler's Park, at about 

 9,000 feet, a slide at the head of Turkey Creek, Ash fork of Cave Creek, 

 Snow-shed Mountain at the head of Cave Creek, and the head of 

 Rock Creek, a form occurs in which the shell is smaller than typical 

 O. barbata and in fully adult shells the last whorl often descends the 

 full width of the former whorl: the periphery also is somewhat less 

 sharply angular, and becomes almost rounded near the aperture. 



Alt. 5.5, diam. 11.3 mm., Station, Barfoot Park. 



iC ft "11 " " " " 



This is distinctly a decadent form, as denoted by the tendency of 

 adult shells to assume the old-age feature of a very deeply descending- 

 last whorl. In Barfoot Park it lives in a deep slide of igneous rock 

 having a southern exposure. In Rustler's Park in a few stones on 

 the hillside. 



On the Ash fork of Cave Creek a colony has 44, whorls, the shell is 

 white under the cuticle, which is dark reddish brown above, lighter 

 brown below; occasionally with five cuticular fringes; last whorl drops 

 1 mm. Diam. 12, alt. 6£ mm., aperture 44; mm. 



A colony at the spring branch of Rucker Canyon, north side and near 

 the head, Station 10a, resembles the above closely (pi. VI, figs. 4, 5). 

 The umbilicus is a little more open, cuticle dark reddish brown, banded 

 with red above; six cuticular fringes. Diam. 124, alt. 6 mm. It is 

 strongly angular to the^aperture, and the last whorl falls much more 

 in front than is usual in Cave Creek shells. 



In a slide of rock on the north side at the head of Raspberry Gulch 

 (a tributary of Rucker Creek, which it enters at the Box Canyon) a 

 colony had only 4 whorls. The umbilicus measured 34, mm. wide. 

 Cuticle dark reddish brown, with a short fringe on the periphery; last 

 whorl drops 14, mm. Diam. 12, alt. 64. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



On the west slope of Snow-shed Mountain, at the head of Cave 

 Creek, almost one continuous talus, was a colony similar to the preceding. 

 Shell transparent when young, occasionally with 5 short fringes. 

 Diam. only 10^, alt. 5f mm. 



In a dry talus fully exposed to the sun and sloping to the south 

 on the head of Rock Creek was a colony heavily covered at maturity 

 with 9 or 10 black fringes, periphery rounded as in the Rustler Park 

 and Barfoot Park specimens; aperture 4^ mm. Margins connected 

 by a thick callus; umbilicus varies from .3 to 3^. Diam. 11, alt. 6£. 



The five colonies above were found by Ferriss in 1908. 



In 1907 Ferriss and Daniels found a small heavily fringed form in 

 the talus of a gulch in the head of the southeast fork of Pinery Canyon, 

 that in fringes resembles the type of barbata. 



Like the above it had from 9 to 10 long fringes. The last whorl 

 dropped but one mm. Diam. 11, alt. 6, aperture 4 mm. 

 Oreohelix barbata minima "■ subsp. PI. VI, figs. 6, 7. 



At the head of Rucker Canyon (Station 11U) and in the Rucker 

 Box, Ferriss and Daniels found colonies in 1907 that were still further 

 depauperate than the above. Ferriss relocated the latter colony in 

 1908. These shells possess 4\ to 4h whorls, the last whorl regularly 

 angular, the angle weakening neai the aperture in old shells. Toward 

 the end the whorl falls deeply at maturity. There are from 6 to 7 

 spiral fringes in the best preserved examples, but adults generally 

 are denuded or show only traces of the spiral wreaths. The margins 

 of the lip converge and form a perfect union in maturity, being joined 

 by a very short parietal callus, and the aperture is sometimes raised 

 above and free from the penultimate whorl. 



The shells from the head of Rucker are uniform brown in color and 

 measure : 



Alt. 5, diam. 10 . 3, umbilicus 3, diam. aperture 3 . 5 mm. ; whorls 4^ 

 " 5, " 10, " 3.1 " " 3.25 " " 4J 



Those from Rucker Box are light brown, sometimes albinistic, light 

 green. 



Six specimens from the Box of Rucker Canyon, type locality, 

 measure : 



Alt 5.8 



Diam 10 



This is the most decadent race, being reduced in size in addition to 

 the deeply descending last whorl and in old shells the nearly or quite 

 free peristome. Colonies of larger forms of O. barbata occur at greater 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



elevations than the Rucker Box (about 7,000 feet), so that the degen- 

 eration is probably due to other local causes. 



Ow 



Fig. 15. — O. b. minima P. and F., Rucker Canyon, Station llha. 

 Genus ASHMUNELLA Pils. and Ckll. 



A study of the genitalia of Chiricahuan Ashmunellas leads to the 

 conclusion that all the species of that range are of common ancestry, 

 and more closely related inter se than any are to New Mexican or 

 Huachucan species. In other words, the specific differentiation has 

 been mainly subsequent to the isolation of this fauna. 



In both Chiricahuan and Huachucan species the penis is bipartite, 

 consisting of an upper and a lower portion separated by a submedian 

 constriction. In the Huachucan 

 series the upper segment is enlarged 

 like the lower (see plate XX, Proc. 

 A. N. 8. Phila., 1909). In 



Chiricahuan forms the upper seg- 

 ment of the penis is very narroiv, 

 hardly larger than the epiph alius, 

 but its distal end is invariably a 

 little swollen, and contracts 

 abruptly where it passes into the 

 epiphallus 20 . The penis retractor 

 is extremely short in Chiricahuan 

 species, longer in Huachucan. 

 The spermatheca is more or less 

 varicose in Huachucan species, 



but this is hardly apparent in Chiricahuan forms. The vagina in the 

 Chiricahuan series is swollen and muscular in its upper part, smaller 

 with thinner walls below. In other respects the organs are alike in 

 the two series. These considerations lead to the conclusion that the 

 whole Chiricahuan series of Ashmunella constitutes one phylum, the 

 Huachucan series another. Doubtless the two phyla were of common 

 ancestry; but their evolution on the two parallel mountain ranges 

 has been independent. The extraordinary resemblances between 

 some Chiricahuan and Huachucan species, which led us in 1905 to 



20 The slender upper continuation of the penis was not always recognized in 

 our former (1905; work on Chiricahuan snails, although once understood it is 

 clear enough. 



Fig. 16. — Terminal ducts of genitalia 

 of Ashmunella p.albicauda, Station 4, 

 White Tail Canyon. Sp, base of 

 spermathecal duct; Ori, base of ovi- 

 duct; P, lower, swollen portion of 

 penis; p, upper end of penis. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



unite some of them specifically, 21 are wholly due to evolution along 

 parallel lines in the two stocks. This orthogenet ic evolution has 

 resulted in the most extraordinary parallelism. By degeneration 

 of the teeth of the aperture, wholly toothless forms have arisen 

 as terminal evolution products in both phyla; and these are so similar 

 in shell-characters that they are indistinguishable. Other forms in 

 both phyla have evolved a Y-shaped parietal tooth, like that of Polygyra. 

 While the shell is extremely conservative in Sonorclla, in the related 

 genus Ashmunella it appears to be the most plastic part of the 

 organism. As in Polygyra and many other molluscan groups in which 

 complex hard parts have been evolved, many races and species are 

 characterized by varying degrees of degeneration of the teeth of the 

 aperture. In the current phraseology, this may be due to the action 

 of an inhibiting factor, earlier or later checking the development of 

 teeth. This seems to have taken place independently in most of the 

 centres of Ashmunella evolution. Toothless apertures are no doubt 

 primitive in the Belogenous Helices, so that secondarily simplified 

 forms, such as A. varicijera and A. chiricahuana, have completed an 

 evolution cycle, returning to the primitive simplicity of aperture. 

 Whether such forms can give rise to new series having dentate 

 apertures remains uncertain. 



Key to Chiricahuan Ashmunellas. 



I. — Aperture toothless or with very small vestiges of teeth only. 

 a. — Shell chestnut brown, glossy, the lip narrow, without traces 



of teeth A. chiricahuana. 



a 1 . — Shell light brown without much luster; usually with a callous 

 ledge within the outer lip, or other weak vestiges of teeth. 



A. esuritor. 

 &.— Penis normal. 



6 1 , — No penis ; vagina long, much swollen above. A. metamorphosa. 

 II. — Aperture obstructed by three or four large teeth. 



a. — Very acutely carinate, the carina projecting above the suture; 



whorls of the spire flat A. ferrissi. 



a 1 . — Carina not projecting at sutures or wanting. 



b. — Surface papillose or scaly; shell thin, strongly carinate. 



A. lepiderma. 

 b 1 . — Surface not scaly or conspicuously papillose. 



c. — Basal tooth single, bifid, or with two basal teeth nearer 

 together than the outer one is to the outer lip tooth. 

 d. — Periphery obtusely angular in front, becoming rounded; 



young with a slight lip-rib only A . duplicidens. 



d 1 . — Periphery strongly angular or carinate. 



^ 21 In 1905 we considered the Chiricahuan Ashmunella proxima to be a sub- 

 species of the Huachucan ..4. levettei. The Huachucan A. varicifera we thought 

 identical with the Chiricahuan A. chiricahuana. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



e.— Whorls fully 6; lip narrow, convex, not forming a 



projecting angle above A. p. fissidens. 



e 1 . — Whorls 5^; lip wide, angulated above; young forming 



a very heavy lip-rib A. p. albicauda. 



c 1 . — Three lip teeth separated by nearly equal spaces. 



d. — Corneous or light brown; whorls of the spire convex; 

 outer basal tooth not greatly compressed. 

 e. — Corneous; basal teeth subequal and well separated. 



A. proximo.. 

 e 1 . — Basal teeth somewhat united, the inner often reduced, 

 young shells having a very heavy lip-rib. 



A. p. emigrans. 



d 1 . — Shell dark brown; whorls of the spire flattened; outer 



basal tooth strongly compressed, entering. A. angulata. 



The genitalia are very similar in all Chiricahuan species examined — 

 so similar that we omit detailed descriptions and merely add here a 

 table of measurements in mm. of the organs in examples of the several 

 species. 



Species and locality. 



A. ferrissi: 



Cave Creek, 94,515. 



A. angulata: 



Cave Creek, 87,020. 



A. lepiderma: 



White Tail Canyon. 



A. duplicidens: 

 Morse Canyon. 



A. fissidens emigrans: 

 99,604 



A. fissidens albicauda: 

 White Tail 



A. chiricahuana 



Head of Cave 



Cave Creek Falls. 





A . esuritor: 



Barfoot Park, 94,432. 



Topotype, 92,205. 



4.5 

 4 



5 

 5 



4.5 



6 

 6 

 5 



9 

 5.5 



7 

 8 

 8 

 5 





25 

 31 



25 

 27 

 23.5 



39 

 32 

 29 



70 

 33 



51 

 40 

 42 

 34 



53 j 



eg 



> XJl 



4 

 4 

 6 



4.5 



6.5 



6 

 7 

 6.5 



4 



19.5 



27 



17 

 21 

 23.5 



18 



3.5 24 



24 



58 

 33 



35 

 42 



42 



c / 



12 



11 



12 



11.5 



11 



13.2 



13 



12 



19.5 

 15 



15-16.5 



15 



o g 



5 .-a 



ttc 

 — a 

 ft, M 



pl.X.f. 7 

 pl.X.f. 6 



pl.X.f. 8 

 pi. X, f. 9 



pi. X,f. 4 

 pi. X,f. 1 



pi. X,f. 2 



pi. X,f. 5 

 pi. X.f. 3 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Group of Ashmunella proximo. 



From Old Fort Bowie these forms extend southeastward to the end 

 of the Chiricahua range. Northward beyond the depression at the 

 Fort, in the Dos Cabezas end of the range, no Ashmunella has been 

 found. The mountains here are apparently too barren and dry for 

 Ashmunella, though they support the more hardy Sonorellas. 



The colonies seem to be small and widely separated in the area 

 northwestward of White Tail Canyon, but much of that country remains 

 to be explored, especially between Big Emigrant and White Tail 

 Canyons, as well as the entire region of the southwestern watershed. 



A. ferrissi and A. angulata are distinct from the others by their 

 flattened whorls and conspicuously compressed outer basal tooth. 

 The other species are intimately related, and their variations make 

 a complexly branching form-chain. An adequate study of the 

 material in hand, some thousands of shells, would require more ample 

 time than we can give. Since not half of the territory is adequately 

 covered by our series, we must leave full consideration of the subject 

 for another occasion. 



Our knowledge of the forms from Rucker and Horseshoe Canyons 

 and the region around them is still very defective. The forms seem 

 to be related somewhat, as shown in the following diagram : 



proximo. 



emigrans 



lepiderma 



pomeroyi, albicauda — fissidens 



duplicidens 



If a single basal tooth is primitive, then A. duplicidens is the least 

 evolved member of the series and of the whole Chiricahuan group of 

 Ashmunellas. Then A. proxima and lepiderma would be the most 

 evolved. All of the forms with more or less concrescent basal teeth 

 are extremely variable in the degree of union of these teeth. Every 

 colony of fissidens, emigrans, albicauda, pomeroyi and duplicidens 

 shows great individual variation in this respect. There seems to be 

 complete intergradation between the separated basal teeth of proxima 

 and the united teeth or single tooth of fissidens and duplicidens. 

 Ashmunella lepiderma n. sp. PI. VII, figs. 1-7. 



Shell umbilicate, the umbilicus about one-fifth the total diameter 

 of the shell, much depressed, biconvex, acutely carinated peripherally, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



thin, corneous-brown. The surface is lusterless, sculptured with fine, 

 unequal wrinkle-stria?, and covered with a network of cuticular scales 

 or processes (readily removed by cleaning). There are 5h whorls. 

 the first one corneous and glossy, the first three convex; subsequent 

 whorls convex above, impressed above the lower suture; last whorl is 

 distinctly impressed above the projecting peripheral keel, the base 

 convex; in front it descends slightly or not at all to the aperture, and 

 is narrowly, rather deeply, guttered close behind the lip on the base. 

 The aperture is lunate, contracted by four teeth : a wide one within 

 the outer lip, two contiguous tubercles in the basal lip, and an oblique 

 straight parietal tooth. Parietal callus thin and transparent. 



Alt. 4.8, diam. 11.7 mm. 

 " 4.2, " 11.2 " 

 " 5. " 11 



" 5.5, " 12.2 " 



White Tail Canyon, on the northern side only, at Stations 10, 11, 16, 

 17, etc., in "slides" of igenous rock (rhyolite) ; type locality, Station 

 11, in a slide of angular rhyolite, coming down to the trail in the bed 

 of the canyon, with Sonorella micro. See map on p. 75. 



Genitalia are of the type usual in the fissidens group. The epi- 

 phallus and spermatheca are a little shorter, proportionately, than in 

 A. p. albicauda or emigrans. Measurements of the organs of three 

 individuals may be found in the table on p. 97. The mantle within 

 the last whorl is cream-white with a few inconspicuous gray dots; 

 collar pale slate-tinted. 



This species, of which several hundred specimens were taken, 

 inhabits suitable rock-slides over the whole northern side of White 

 Tail Canyon. At Station 11 it occurs close to the bottom of the 

 canyon, and only a short distance from where .4. fissidens is found on 

 the opposite side. The slopes of this side of the canyon are steep, 

 interrupted by cliffs, and the heights are difficult of access. At 

 Station 16 there are extensive rock slides sloping northward towards 

 the mesa, and perhaps 1,500 feet higher than Station 11. Here it 

 passes over the ridge and inhabits the opposite slope. While belonging 

 to the fissidens group, this species is very distinct by its sculpture of 

 cuticular scales, the strong carination, thin texture, etc. The young 

 shells form only a weak callous rib within the lip at resting periods. 



At all the stations there is considerable variation in size and, as in 

 all Chiricahua Ashmunellas, the height of the spire varies a good deal 

 among individuals of any colony. At Station 17 the shells average 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



smaller than in other places, about 4x10.3 mm.; but a few are as 

 large as 11.5 mm. diameter and many as small as 9.5 mm. The 

 scale-like sculpture is especially well developed in shells from this 

 station. In some colonies the cuticular scales are minute, sparse or 

 even wanting in adult shells. 



At Hand's Pass, at the head of Jhu Canyon, this species reappears. 

 The surface is regularly very minutely pustulate, some perfectly fresh 

 shells having minute cuticular appendages on the pustules in places. 

 There are also some cuticular spiral hair-lines on the base. Alt. 5, 

 diam. 12 mm., whorls 6. This colony is separated from the type 

 locality by the whole southern slope of White Tail Canyon, where 

 lepiderma certainly does not occur. We have considered the possi- 

 bility that the Hand's Pass form may be an independent convergent 

 modification of the proxima stock; but in the absence of alcoholic 

 material permitting a full comparison this hypothesis must remain in 

 abeyance. 



Ashmunella proxima Pils. Fig. 17. 



Ashmunella levettei proxima Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 242. 



This species was described from "Sawmill Canyon," otherwise known 

 as Rigg's or Pine Canyon, where the senior author collected it in 1904. 

 We did not find it there in 1906, but our search was impeded by snow. 

 We found it near Fort Bowie in company with Sonorella bowiensis. 

 The exact locality Is a little thicket of long-leaved scrub oaks, just 

 below a low rock-wall, somewhat more than half-way up "Quartzite 

 Hill." on the side facing Dixon's house, shown at (1) in the sketch on 

 p. 67. This is about a mile from Old Fort Bowie. 



Similar shells were also taken at Crook's Peak (Ferriss and Daniels) 

 in 1907; only two specimens. 



In ranking A. proxima as a subspecies of A. levettei, a wrong estimate 

 was made of its affinities. It is related to A. fissidens and duplicidens, 

 but differs from both by having two distinctly separated teeth on the 

 basal lip. A. levettei angigyra stands very near proxima in shell-charac- 

 ters, but the lower end of the tooth within the outer lip runs inward in 

 angigyra, while in proxima the free edge of this tooth rims parallel with the 

 peristome. In angigyra the outer-basal and outer lip tooth are usually 

 closer together than are the two basal teeth. This is not the case in 

 proxima, in which the three teeth are about equally spaced. In soft 

 anatomy the two are quite distinct. A. I. angigyra has a far longer 

 penis of different shape and a shorter epiph alius and vagina than 

 A. proxima; moreover, angigyra has a radula with more teeth, and 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



there are more ribs on the jaw. The shell is corneous-brown, sub- 

 acutely angular at the periphery, the angle weakening on the last part 

 of the whorl, behind the lip, where the surface is more strongly striate. 

 Spire convex. There are 6^ to 6+ very slowly widening, slightly 

 convex whorls, the last descending somewhat in front. The aperture 

 has a rather long, concave-topped tooth within the outer lip, its face 

 concave. The basal lip has two tubercular teeth, a little compressed 

 laterally, the inner one smaller. These teeth divide the lower border 

 of the aperture into three nearly equal bays. The parietal tooth is 

 straight or slightly bent inward at the axial end; never V-shaped, as it 

 frequently is in .4. fissidens. Parietal callus thin. The umbilicus is 

 rather wide, contained 4| times in the diameter of the shell. The 

 surface is rather dull, finely striate, the striae appearing more or less 



Fig. 17. — Ashmunella proximo,, Quartzite Peak, Station 1. 



irregular or interrupted under a strong lens. The size varies little 

 from 12 mm. diameter. 



In perfectly fresh young shells a delicate pattern of minute low 

 granules on the upper surface may be seen with some difficulty. Si .me 

 very weak traces of spiral stria- may sometimes be made out on the 

 base. The young shells have a callous rib within the lip, at resting 

 stages, but it is apparently not formed as frequently as in A. fissidens. 



The genitalia were figured hi 1905, pi. 21, fig. 24. Having again 

 examined the individual dissected, we note that the penis was incor- 

 rectly drawn. The swollen basal half is everted (as in pi. 21, fig. 23), 

 hence does not show in the figure. The slender upper portion of the 

 penis is shown, its distal end indicated by a slight node, only indis- 

 tinctly drawn in my figure. With these corrections, it will be seen 

 that the organs are like those of emigrans, fissidens and albicavda. 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



The mantle within the last whorl is white, with the anterior vessels 

 of the lung faintly traced in gray and having gray pigment along the 

 periphery. 



Southern forms resembling A. proximo. — Raspberry Gulch. A few 

 specimens in poor condition are intermediate between proximo and 

 fissidens as to the basal teeth, but the umbilicus is much narrower than 

 in either, and the peripheral angulation is less pronounced, thus 

 approaching A. duplicidens. There are over 6 whorls. Other southern 

 localities for forms of A. proximo are Rucker Canyon and "Turtle 

 Head," a station between Crook's Peak and the mouth of Rucker. 



.4. fissidens should by rights be subordinated to proximo, as a sub- 

 species, on account of the various intermediate forms; yet the status 

 of the races can be more clearly expressed by the artificial device of 

 making it a "species." 



Ashmunella proxima emigrans n. subsp. Fi{j. 18. 



On Big Emigrant .Mountain, Big Emigrant Canyon, a race was found 

 having some characters of A. fissidens. The shell Is somewhat larger 



Fig. IS. — A. p. emigrant 



A . ( ', apertures of adult shells. B, young shell 1 1 mm . 

 diam. Big Emigrant Canyon. 



than proximo, more robust, with slightly less than 6 whorls. The 

 two basal teeth are less separated, somewhat united by a callus at 

 their bases, and the inner one is generally smaller, frequently very 

 small. There is often the weak trace of an upper branch, making the 

 parietal tooth V-shaped. Fine spirals may be seen on the base of 

 the shell. The young shell forms a very strong callous rib within the 

 lip, as in A. fissidens. The umbilicus is narrow, contained five times 

 in the diameter of the shell. Alt. 5.8, diam. 13.2 mm. 



This shell is like A. fissidens except in the single character of having 

 the basal teeth more widely separated. As in that species, the inner 

 of the two basal teeth is quite variable in size. It is a race intermediate 

 in character between fissidens and proxima. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Genitalia (pi. X, fig. 9) not materially differing from A. p. albicauda. 

 The swollen basal portion of the penis is less than half the total length. 

 The penial retractor is less than one millimeter long. 



Ashmunella fissidens Pils. 



Proe. A. X. S. Phila., 1905, p. 243. 



This species was described from "dead" and discolored specimens, 

 thought to be from Cave Creek Canyon, collected by one of us (Mr. 

 Ferriss) in the course of a flying trip through the mountains in the 

 winter of 1904. In 1906 we collected extensively in Cave Creek; 

 a year later Messrs. Ferriss and Daniels did additional work there, but 

 nothing was seen of A. fissidens. The location of the type colony, 

 therefore, remains uncertain. It is likely that the shells were picked 

 up in White Tail Canyon, also hurriedly traversed in 1904. While 

 the prevalent form in White Tail differs from fissidens in several 

 respects, yet near the head of the canyon some exactly similar shells 

 were found by us in 1906. A lot from near the head of the left branch 

 (going up) (near Jim Artel's old camp) is typical fissidens; and we 

 suggest that this be regarded as the type locality in case true fissidens 

 is not hereafter found in Cave Creek. 



In these shells the lip is not produced forward in an angle near the 

 upper insertion, and the upper angle is not filled with a callus; the lip 

 is narrow with rounded face; there is no upper branch developed on 

 the parietal wall, unless very weakly in some old shells; there are 

 fully 6 whorls; the young develop only a weak lip-rib at resting 

 stages. 



Certain forms from much further south, in Shake Gulch, the foot of 

 Bonito Canyon and Limestone Mountain, seem to be referable to 

 A. fisside?is; but they are less angular, becoming rounded behind the 

 lip, and the umbilicus is decidedly smaller. More material is needed 

 to fix their status. 



Ashmunella fissidens albicauda n. subsp. Fig. 19. 



The upper end of the parietal wall stands more or less free and the 

 lip. near its upper insertion, runs forward in an angle; the posterior 

 angle of the aperture is heavily calloused, and the parietal tooth is 

 usually V-shaped by development of a weak upper branch. The 

 young shells form a very thick and heavy callus within the lip at 

 resting stages (fig. 19D). 



Adult shells are invariabl}' acutely angular in front, the angle 

 weakening and almost disappearing on the latter part of the whorl. 

 Behind the aperture the striation is stronger and sometimes amounts 




104 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



to an irregular costulation. There is an angular gutter behind the 

 basal lip, and the reddish-brown color gives place there to a wide 

 buff stripe which borders the lip. The whole base has a sculpture of 

 extremely minute spiral lines in fresh examples ; and under the micro- 

 scope a veiy minute spiral lineolation is seen between these spiral 

 lines, which are readily visible with a hand lens. The upper surface 

 also snows very faint spiral lines in places, and there is often some 



c 



Fig. 19. — Ashmunellii j. albicauda P. and F. A-C, from Box of White Tail 

 (diam. 13.3 mm.) ; D, Station 14 (diam. 7 mm.) ; E, Station 2 (diam. 12 mm.) ; 

 F, Station 14. 



interruption of the growth striae, giving a slight appearance of puncta- 

 tion. Seven specimens from Station 14 measure: 



Alt 5 5.5 4.S 4.7 5.2 4.8 5 mm. 



Diam 12.5 12.5 12 11.5 11.5 11.3 11.3 " 



Whorls U 5£ 5| 5* 5* o\ 5* 



While variable in size and elevation of the spire, which may be nearly 

 flat or low-conic, and in the shape of the basal teeth, the variations 

 do not seem to differ in the several colonies. 



Terminal ducts of the genitalia are figured on p. 95, fig. 16, and 

 the measurements are given in the table, p. 97. The epiphallus in the 

 individual measured (No. 97,939, Station 4, in White Tail Canyon) is 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



105 



shorter than in A. p. emigrans or A. duplicidens, but this may be an 

 individual character. 



A. f. albicauda is found in White Tail Canyon almost everywhere 

 on the southern side, but not on the opposite slope of the canyon. Speci- 

 mens were taken at Stations 1 to 5, 9, 12, 14, on the south side of the 

 Box Canyon and on the south side below Indian Creek, ranging from 

 about 20 feet above the creek bed (at the last place) to about 7.500 

 feet elevation on the rim southward, where indeed it was taken at 

 Station 3, which lies across the acute divide and on the Pinery side. 

 Not one single specimen was found on the north side of the canyon, 

 where A. lepiderma replaces it, coming down to the bottom of the 

 canyon. 



The range of A. fissielens in the Pinery and Pinery Canj^on is un- 

 known. The great Pinery Valley lay before us in splendid panorama 

 from the ridge south of White Tail Canyon and again from the ridge 

 north of Barfoot Park. Probably its ravines are inhabited by fissidens 

 and perhaps forms connecting that with A. proxima. It may be noted 

 that the large Sonorella of White Tail Canyon is a race of S. virilis, 

 of Barfoot Park, etc. 



At all stations in White Tail Canyon where many shells were taken, 

 the same variations in height of spire noted under .4. duplicidens were 

 noticed. Otherwise there is variation in the size of the outer lip-tool h 

 and especially in that of the inner tubercle of the basal tooth. The 

 parietal tooth may be either straight at its axial end or abruptly 

 curved inward, and, when turned inward, a low ridge usually runs to 

 the outer end of the lip, making the parietal tooth V-shaped. 



Ashmunella fissidens pomeroyi n. subsp. Fig. 20. 



In Hand's Pass, head of Jhu Canyon, Ferriss and Pomeroy collected 



Fig. 20. — Ashmunella f. pomeroyi P. and 1'.. Hand's Pass. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



in 1908. The shells are similar to those of White Tail Canyon in general 

 appearance, but differ in certain particulars, constituting a minor 

 race. They are in the average smaller, diam. 8^ to 11^ mm., rarely 



13 mm., with 5£ whorls; the umbilicus is noticeably wider; the lip is 

 heavy and wide. The basal teeth vary from completely united to 

 distinctly bifid, as in White Tail fissidens, or rarely they are almost 

 separated. In most examples these teeth are more united than in 

 White Tail specimens. The shape of the parietal tooth also varies 

 from V-shaped to simple. All of the shells'are more angular and more 

 depressed than A. duplicidens. 



Ashmunella duplicidens Pils. PI. VIII, figs. 1-8. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1905, p. 244. 



After the first H whorls the next four whorls more or less appear 

 minutely punctate in the best preserved examples, though in most 

 only an indistinctly interrupted condition of the striae can be made 

 out. Under the compound microscope some very fine close spiral 

 striation is seen on the base. The basal tooth is ordinarily doubled 

 as in figs 5 and 8; but sometimes is simple, the inner tubercle being 

 represented only by a sloping callus, as in figs. 1-3, 6, 17. 



Immature shells form only a thin narrow rib within the lip at resting 

 stages . and have a wider, somewhat less angular, aperture than A. 

 fissidens. This thin lip-rib is subsequently wholly, or almost wholly, 

 absorbed, so that adult shells do not show whitish varix-streaks. 



Figs. 3 and 7 show the extremes of elevation and depression of the 

 spire. All of these figures are from topotypes, from Station 1 in 

 Barfoot Park — an extensive slide of coarse rock on a southern exposure. 

 It is an abundant species in this place. 



In 1907 Mr. Ferriss found A. duplicidens in the head of Morse Canyon, 

 large shells, 13 to 14 mm. diam., with over 6 whorls; in Rucker Canyon, 

 7,000 to 8,000 feet; and on Rucker Peak, where they are also rather 

 large. Small shells, 10.5 to 11.5 mm. diam., were taken at the Box of 

 Rucker. A specimen from Crook's Peak measures 14 mm. diam. 



Large and well-developed duplicidens was found in Cave Creek 

 Canyon on the first branch west of the Falls fork of Cave Creek, diam. 



14 to 15 mm., and at the Falls. 



The genitalia of a specimen from the head of Morse Canyon are 

 figured, pi. X, fig. 8. The penis tapers more gradually than in allied 

 forms, the distinction between its swollen basal half and the slender 

 distal portion being obscure. This was also the case in the individual 

 figured in 1905 from the type lot, but in that preparation the enlarged 

 basal portion of the penis was everted, hence does not show at all in 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



107 



the figure. The lung is 18 mm. long, kidney 7.5 mm., pericardium 

 3.5 mm. The mantle within the last whorl is cream-colored with 

 sparse black maculation. Earlier whorls have copious black pigmen- 

 tation along the top of the whorls. 



Fig. 21.— Principal collecting stations in Cave Creek and the Parks at its head. 

 Stations marked A were explored in 1907-8 by Ferriss, the others in 1900 

 bv Ferriss and Pilsbry. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. 



The specimens figured (topotypes) measure: Alt. 6, diam. 13 mm., 

 whorls 6f ; alt. 6, diam. 12.2 mm., whorls 6h. The smallest specimen 

 seen is from Rucker Canyon, 7,000 feet, measuring alt. 4.9, diam. 

 10.5 mm., whorls 5^. 



A. duplicidens stands veiy close to A. fissidens, but it differs by the 

 more obtuse, though bluntly angular, last whorl, and by the young- 

 shells, which form only a very thin, narrow rib within the lip in resting 

 stages, while in fissidens a very strong and heavy callus is deposited. 

 The basal teeth are more united than in typical fissidens. 



A. duplicidens, fissidens and proximo, are terms of one series of 

 forms differing chiefly, so far as the adult shells are concerned, in the 

 degree of separation of the basal tooth, which in duplicidens is a single 

 more or less bifid prominence, while in proximo there are two distinct 

 teeth. When the canyons opening westward, between Rucker and 

 Ft. Bowie, have supplied series of shells as copious as those we have 

 obtained in the eastward canyons, another chapter may be added to 

 the history of this group. 



Ashmunella angulata Pils. 



Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 190,5, p. 244. 



In the south fork of Cave Creek we found this species abundantly. 

 This is the type locality and here it attains the largest size. A few 

 dead ones were picked up on a mountain-side southeast of Paradise, 

 towards Cave Creek, and at Station 12, in Cave Creek. It reappears 

 at the head of the canyon at the Falls, and at Stations 3 and 4 and 

 in the head of Turkey Creek. At these places the shells are smaller. 



In 1907 Ferriss and Daniels took some specimens in Barfoot Park, 

 Station la. They are much less angular at the periphery than the 

 Cave Creek form. In 1908 it was taken in Horseshoe Canyon at the 

 "Red Box" (10 miles up the canyon) and at "5-mile camp"; also 

 in Rock Creek, at the head of Raspberry Gulch and in the Spring 

 Branch of Rucker Canyon. These localities greatly extend the range 

 of the species. The compressed outer basal tooth and less convex 

 whorls readily separate A. angulata from .4. proximo. Young shells 

 deposit a lip-callus at resting periods. It is thick in the middle, 

 tapering at the ends, as figured in our former paper, pi. XI, fig. 11. 



Our former figure of the genitalia of A. angulata (1905, pi. 21, fig. 26) 

 is not satisfactory in one point, the slight enlargement marking the 

 upper end of the penis being omitted. This enlargement is rather 

 small yet distinct in the individual figured, which has been re-examined, 

 and is present in all the specimens opened (seven) from several stations. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



A new figure is given, pi. X, fig. 6, representing a specimen from Cave 

 Creek near Reed's Mountain, No. 87,020. The penial retractor 

 muscle is longer than in A. proxima and its allies. 



Ashmunella ferrissi Pils. Fig. 22. 



A. ferrissi Pils. Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 247, pi. 16, figs. 108-110, 113. 

 The type locality is in the talus at the foot of Reed's Mountain, at 

 Station 11, about a half mile below Reed's house, where it is found 

 with A. chiricah nana, Sonorella virilis, etc. Additional specimens 

 were taken here in 1906. The figures represent an elevated and a 

 depressed specimen. 



Fig. 22. — Ashmunella ferrissi, Cave Creek, Station 11 (topotypes). 



The embryonic shell seems to comprise the first If whorls. The 

 initial half whorl is smooth and glossy ; then growth-striae begin below 

 the suture, gradually extending over the whole width of the whorl. 

 The third and fourth whorls are very minutely indistinctly marked 

 with subregularly arranged points, as though hairy in the immature 

 stage, though none taken retain any hairs. The rest of the whorls are 

 finely striate. The base also is marked with very fine, unequal growth- 

 striae, and under a strong lens shows faint, extremely fine and close 

 spiral striae. These are also faintly visible in places on the upper 

 surface. The carina first appears above the suture at the end of the 

 second whorl in some examples, in others at the end of the third. 



There is considerable variation in size and degree of elevation. 

 Three of the specimens taken in 1906 at the type locality measure: 



Alt. 6.2, diam. 12.5 mm. 

 " 5.2, " 11.8 " 

 " 5.6, " 10.6 " 



The punctation of the early neanic whorls, not noticed when the 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



species was first described, shows that A. ferrissi is related to ^4. angu- 

 lata, a much more widely spread species. 



Genitalia as usual in the group. Basal half of the penis is swollen. 

 As in A. angulata, the retractor muscle of the penis is longer than in 

 A. duplicidens, proximo, etc. The mantle within the last whorl is 

 white (pi. X, fig. 7). 



Group of Ashmunella chiricahuana. 



This group is distinguished by the very long spermatheca and 

 epiph alius and the open aperture, which is either toothless or provided 

 with minute vestigeal teeth which do not sensibly obstruct the opening. 



.4. chiricahuana has never been found to have any trace of teeth. 

 It varies in size and degree of elevation of the aperture. A. esuritor 

 frequently retains minute vestiges of teeth, but they are variable and 

 often hardly noticeable. It is less evolved than A. chiricahuana in 

 retaining this functionless reminiscence of the toothed ancestral form. 

 The series is exactly parallel to the .4. levettei-varicifera series in the 

 Huachucas, but there the degeneration of teeth has been more recent 

 and all stages of the process still exist. 



Ashmunella chiricahuana (Dall). Fig. 23. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 250. 



This fine Ashmunella is widely distributed in Cave Creek Canyon, 

 living on reasonably moist north slopes where there is good rock 

 shelter, with Sonorella. In 1906 we took specimens at Stations 3, 4, 

 5, 11 , and in the ravines west of Reed's Mountain between that and 

 Station 10. In 1907 and 1908 the following localities were added by 

 Mr. Ferriss : Cave Creek Falls, head of Cave Creek near Long Park, 

 Long Park at 8,000 feet. The types were from the adjacent Fly's Park 

 (No. 124,481 U. S. N. M.). The figures published by Dr. Dall represent 

 A. varicifera, a Huachucan species, and we have therefore given new 

 illustrations. 



The color varies from light brownish-corneous to light chestnut, 

 and occasionally albinos are found. The surface is veiy glossy. 

 Young specimens form a strong wide white rib within the lip when a 

 resting stage occurs. This persists as a yellow blotch or stripe in the 

 adult stage. 



Some specimens, as those from Cave Creek, Station 5, and the head of 

 Cave Creek, show traces of punctation on the intermediate whorls 

 not visible in most others. 



The chief variation, aside from tint, is in the elevation of the spire. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Two examples, extremes of a continuous series, are figured to illus- 

 trate this (fig. 23 c, d), from about the middle of the amphitheatre 

 west of Reed's Mountain. This variation is not peculiar to any special 

 colonies, though greater in some lots than others. 



At the Cave Creek Falls there is a small form. Three specimens 

 measure as follows : 



Alt 8 7 6.7 mm. 



Diam 16 16 13.5 " 



Whorls 5£ 5§ 5£ 



The genitalia of two individuals are figured. PI. X, fig. 4, is from 

 one of the very large shells of the head of Cave Creek at about 8,000 



Fig. 23. — A. chiricahuana (Dall). A, B, Cave Creek Canyon; C, D, amphitheatre 



of Cave Creek. 



feet elevation, near Long Park, diam. 19.5 mm. The ducts are very 

 long in these large snails. Both penis and spermatheca adhere to 

 the uterus throughout part of their length, the penis looping under the 

 spermatheca. The vagina is stout down to its base. PI. X, fig. 1 , was 

 drawn from one of the very small shells of the Cave Creek Falls, diam. 

 13.5 to 16 mm. The ducts are shorter and the base of the vagina is 

 thin-walled. The penial retractor is longer in this species than in 

 the toothed species, but not so long as in the Huachucan Ashmunellas. 

 The collar and foot are slate-colored; mantle-lining of the last whorl 

 cream-white, not maculate. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



In a former paper 21 we mentioned a form of Ashmunella from Miller 

 Canyon, Huachucas, which, so far as the shell is concerned, agrees 

 exactly with A. chiricahuana. 



Specimens collected in 1907 have now been dissected. The Huachu- 

 can form proves to be practically identical with A. levettei in the soft 

 anatomy, and abundantly distinct from A. chiricahuana in the pro- 

 portions of the organs, especially of the spermatheca and its duct, 

 as will be seen by the following table: 



A. chiricahuana, Huachuca Mt. 



Chiricahua Mts. form. 



Length of vagina 9 mm. 7.2 mm. 



" " spermatheca and duct 56 " 26 " 



" penis 4.5 " 7.3 " 



" epiph alius and flagellum 68.5 " 40 



The spermatheca in the Huachucan form has the long, cylindric, 

 weakly sacculate shape of that of A. levettei, wholly unlike that of 

 A. chiricahuana. This form has been fully described and figured in a 

 former paper. It is undoubtedly the shell indicated as A. chiri- 

 cahuana var. varicijera Ancey, and will now be called Ashmunella 

 varicifera. 



Ashmunella esuritor Pils. PI. IX, figs. 1-8. 



Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1905, p. 2-19, pi. 13, figs. 23-26 (shell); pi. 21, figs. 30, 

 25 (genitalia). 



The type locality is not in Barfoot Park proper, but in a small park 

 of yellow pine on the road from Paradise, about a mile before it crosses 

 the ridge or divide going to Barfoot. This Is the first grove of yellow 

 pine on the road up. The type locality is a small conical pile of earth 

 and rocks about ten feet to the left of the road. 22 It was covered 

 with snow at the time of our visit, but a small series of living specimens 

 was taken, No. 92,205 A. N. S. P. About a mile below this place, 

 toward Paradise, where a few yellow pines first appear among the oak 

 scrub, we found a few examples. It will probably be found in many 

 other suitable places in this immediate vicinity, reached by the road 

 from Paradise to Barfoot Park. Our work in this place was impeded 

 by a heavy snowfall, which lay knee-deep among the pines. 



In the topotypes (No. 92,205) the diameter varies from 14.5 to 16 

 mm., whorls 6 to 6^. The degree of elevation of the spire is quite 



21 Mollusca of the Southwestern States I, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, pp. 242, 

 251, pi. XV, figs. 94, 95. 



22 We would ask future collectors to preserve this small type colony by taking 

 only a moderate number of specimens there. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



variable, as in all the related species. Two of this lot are figured, 

 pi. IX, figs. 1, 2, 4, 5. In one or two shells there is the minute vestige 

 of a parietal tooth (figs. 4, 5). The soft parts were partially spoiled 

 when studied, but I have figured the terminal ducts of the genitalia, 

 pi. X, fig. 3. The spermatheca was broken. Other organs agree with 

 the type figured in 1905. 



The genitalia of two specimens are figured, pi. X, figs. 2, 5. The 

 penis and vagina conform in shape to the usual Chiricahuan type. 

 The retractor muscle of the penis is well-developed, but short, about 

 2 mm. long. The epiphallus is very long. Measurements of the 

 organs may be found on p. 97. The penis and epiphallus are decidedly 

 longer in three specimens of this lot dissected than in the type or 

 topotype of esuritor. The spermatheca of the types of esuritor is 

 unusually swollen distally, as correctly represented in the figure 

 published in 1905. 



Additional specimens (pi. IX, figs. 6, 7, 8) from the east side of 

 Barfoot Park, Station la, were taken by Mr. Ferriss in 1907. The penul- 

 timate and two preceding whorls have the fine stria? interrupted 

 irregularly, in places forming minute granules, and there is besides 

 some indistinct appearance of punctation on the spire. There are 

 very fine spiral lines on the base. Tnere is a wide prominence, hardly 

 to be called a tooth, within the outer lip in most examples, but in some 

 this is very low or wanting, and in none quite so prominent as in the 

 type of A. metamorphosa. Edentulous specimens resemble A. chirica- 

 huana closely, but they differ from that species by the slightly more 

 depressed shape, by having a rather deep, narrow gutter behind the 

 lip (almost wanting in A. chiricahuana) , by the smaller aperture 

 in shells of the same diameter, and by having the umbilicus wider 

 within, though not at its mouth. Three adults, No. 94,432, measure: 



Alt 8 7.3 6.7 mm. 



Diam 17 16.3 15 



Whorls 6£ 5| 6 



In 1906 we dug out a small series of dead shells (No. 97,930) from under 

 the snow and rocks in the head of Pine Canyon, 23 perhaps fifteen minutes 

 walk down from Barfoot Park. The callous "tooth" within the outer 

 lip is either weak or wanting in these examples, and four out of ten 

 adults taken show the weak trace of a parietal tooth. The most 



23 This canyon, which runs westward from Barfoot Park, is sometimes called 

 Riggs' Canyon, or Saw-mill Canyon. At its head a saw-mill stood, but it was 

 removed in the spring of 1907. 



8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



elevated shell of this lot is drawn in pi. IX, fig. 3, Alt. 9, diain. 17 mm., 

 with 6£ whorls. 



The specimens measure : 



Alt 8.3 7 8 9 7.5 mm. 



Diam 17.2 17 16.5 17 16 



Whorls 6 6i 6i 6£ 



Alt 8 7.5 8 7.5 7 mm. 



Diam 16.4 16.5 16 15.5 15 



Whorls 6 6£ 6^ 6 5f 



A single shell from Onion Creek has a distinct callous prominence 

 within the outer lip and a low tooth in the basal lip. Anatomically 

 it resembles the topotypes of A. esuritor so far as can be made out, 

 the soft parts being mutilated in pulling. The mantle is white within 

 the last whorl. 



Group of A. metamorphosa. 



Aehmunella metamorphosa Pils. PI. IX, fig. 9. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 252, pi. 16, fig. 115 (shell); pi. 22, fig. 8 

 (radula); pi. 23, fig. 16 (jaw); pi. 21, fig. 27 (genitalia). 



With one exception the original figures of this species, cited above, 

 were taken from one specimen. Fig. 114 of plate XVI (1905) 

 represents another shell, probably not conspecific. It is now pro- 

 posed to restrict the type of A. metamorphosa to the broken shell 

 represented on pi. XVI, fig. 115, the anatomy of which was figured. 

 This is No. 88885 A. N. ,S. P. 



This shell (pi. IX, fig. 9) resemblas A. esuritor in contour. There 

 is a deep furrow behind the narrowly reflexed basal and outer lips. 

 The outer lip bears a long low callus on its inner edge. Above this 

 callus it is brown, elsewhere white. Whorls 6. The surface is not 

 well preserved and shows no minute sculpture, being somewhat worn. 

 Alt. 8.8, diam. probably about 17 mm. It is a fully adult, but not 

 old, individual. In pi. IX, fig. 9, the aperture of the type specimen 

 of A. metamorphosa is drawn, the former photographic figure being 

 unsatisfactory. 



Barfoot Park, collected by James H. Ferriss, February, 1904. 



We have nothing to add to the description and figures of genitalia 

 jaw and teeth given in 1905. Having again examined the genitalia 

 of the type, we see nothing to indicate that it is abnormal. The 

 possibility that it is the 9 phase of a proterandrous form has been 

 considered, but the absence of such a condition in the other species 

 of the genus makes against such hypothesis. If normal, the genitalia 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



of this snail indicate one of the most distinct Chiricahuan species, a 

 penis and its retractor being absent, as in some slugs. 



The lot originally referred to this species consisted of three specimens, 

 two being included in Mus. No. 88,886. The soft parts of one of these 

 were mutilated and not preserved. The other one has been dissected 

 and proves to be A. esuritor. When we were in Barfoot Park near 

 the end of November, 1906, snow lay almost knee-deep among the 

 big pine trees and living snails were hard to find. Some dead shells 

 (No. 97,930), taken in the head of Pine Canyon, may be metamorphosa, 

 but we refer them for the present to A. esuritor. No shells known to 

 have the anatomical peculiarities of A. metamorphosa have been taken 

 since 1904. 



We have found no character in the shell to certainly distinguish 

 A. metamorphosa from A. esuritor. The latter varies from forms with 

 a nearly simple lip, like A. cmricahuana, to those with various callous 

 vestiges of teeth, as shown on the plate, figures 1 to 8. Further 

 collections of specimens in the flesh are needed. 



Thysanophora hornii (Gabb). 



Helix hornii Gabb, Amer. jour, of Conch., II, 1866, p. 330, pi. 21, fig. 5 (bad). 

 Thysanophora hornii Gabb, Pilsbry, Nautilus XI, 1898, p. 105; XIII, 



Jan., 1900, p. 98; Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1903, p. 763; 1896, p. 126; Hinkley, 



Nautilus XXI, 1907, p. 172 (Tampico) ; Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, 



1896, p. 336. 

 Not Patula horni Gabb, W. G. Binnev, Man. Amer. Land Shells, Bull. 28, 



U. S. N. M., 1885, p. 169. 



Chiricahua Mountains: near Dos Cabezas cave; near Lawhorn's 

 ranch, mouth of Big Emigrant Canyon; White Tail Canyon above 

 Stations 4 and 11, rare; Cave Creek Canyon on the slope below the 

 cave, at Station 6, and about a half mile up the South Fork. 



Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland). Fig. 24, A, B, C. 



Helix ingersolli Bland, Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist, of New York, XI, 1N74. p. 

 151, figs. 



Microphysa ingersolli Bid., W. G. Binnev, Terr. Moll., V, p. 173, fig. 82 

 (shell)'; pi. Ill, fig. V (teeth) ; Man. Amer. Land Shells, 18S5, p. 170, fig. 160. 



Thysanophora ingersolli Bid., Dall, Proc. U. S. N. Mus., XIX, p. 366 (Fly 

 Park); Pilsbry, Nautilus XI, p. 105; J. Henderson, The Molluscs of Colo- 

 rado, Univ. of Colo. Studies IV, Xo. 3, p. 169. 



This species differs from the typical forms of Thysanophora by the 

 absence of cuticular laminae or hairs, the surface being clean and bright, 

 with the appearance of a Vitrea. Under very high magnification 

 some spiral striae are visible on the intermediate whorls, but not on 

 the first. In the typical form, the aperture is narrowly lunate, the 

 spire almost flat, umbilicus nearly one-fourth of the diameter, "Height 

 2.5, diam. 4 mm." In many Colorado examples the umbilicus is 

 narrower, about one-fifth the diameter of the shell. 




116 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



The localities for T. ingersolli in Colorado have been given by 

 Henderson (I.e.). Specimens are in coll. A. N. S. from Field, British 

 Columbia (Stew. Brown). In New Mexico we have seen it from Sapello 

 Canyon at Beulah (Cockerell); Sandia Mountains near Albuquerque 

 (Miss Maud Ellis); Bland (Ashmun); James Canyon, Cloudcroft, 

 Sacramento Mountains (Rehn and Viereck). In Arizona we have it 

 from Bill Williams Mountain near Williams (Ferriss and Pilsbry) 

 and the top of Mt. Mingus, near Jerome (Ashmun). A specimen from 

 this place is drawn in figs. 23, a,b,c, alt. 2, diam. 4.4, width of umbilicus 

 1.15 mm., whorls 5£. It does not occur in the Chiricahua Mountains. 



Thysanophora ingersolli meridionalis n. subsp. Fig. 24, D, E, F. 



Shell with a wider aperture than T. ingersolli; whorls not quite as 

 closely coiled, scarcely 5 in a shell of over 5 mm. diam.; umbilicus 

 about one- fourth the total diameter; spire nearly flat. Alt. 2.3, diam. 

 5.2, width of umbilicus 1.3 mm., whorls 4f. 



Chiricahua Mountains in Bear Park, Long Park, head of Cave Creek, 



Fig. 24. — A, B, C, Thysanophora ingersolli (Bid.), Mt. Mingus, near Jerome, 

 Arizona; D, E, F, T. i. meridionalis P. and F., Long Park, Chiricahua Moun- 

 tains, Arizona; G. H, I, T. i. convexior (Ane.), Weston, Oregon. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



8,000 feet, Pine Canyon, 7,500 feet, and " Box" of Rucker Canyon. It- 

 has been listed by Dall from Fly's Park. 



While not strongly differentiated, adult shells of this race are readily 

 distinguishable. The aperture clasps the preceding whorl less deeply 

 than in ingersolli. The microscopic spiral striation also is somewhat 

 better developed in the examples compared. 



Thysanophora ingersolli convexior (Ancey). Fig. 24, G, H, I. 



Microphysa ingersolli var. convexior Ancey, Conchol. Exch. II, p. 64, Nov., 



1887 (Logan Canyon, Utah). 



"Shell a little smaller; spire scarcely planulate, the apex not sub- 

 immersed, distinctly convex; whorls 5, not 5£, regularly but less 

 slowly increasing, umbilicus smaller" (Ancey). 



This form has not been figured. We have seen no topotypes, but 

 examples from Weston, in eastern Oregon, collected by Henry Hemp- 

 hill, evidently belong to the same race. One of these is figured (fig. 

 24, g, h, i). The specimen figured measures, alt. 2.5, diam 4.8, width 

 of umbilicus 1 mm., whorls 5f. The aperture is a little wider than 

 in typical ingersolli. 



Family UROCOPTID^J Pils. 



Genus H0L0SPIRA von Martens. 



All of the Holospiras now known from Arizona belong to a single 

 group of closely related species, characterized by the light brown 

 shell, having a stout lamella on the axis in the penultimate and first 

 part of the last whorl, often in addition a superior or parietal lamella, 

 and sometimes a basal lamella also. In several of the forms the 

 lamellae vary from one to three, as Ave have demonstrated by cutting 

 from twenty to fifty individuals of a single colony. In colonies so 

 varying, the number of internal lamellae is not correllated with age, 

 size or any other external feature of the shells, so far as we can discover, 

 after collecting and examining hundreds of shells from a great number 

 of colonies. The subgeneric divisions {Eiulistemma, Tristemma) based 

 upon the number of internal lamellae in shells of this type have, there- 

 fore, no basis in nature. While the Arizona species differ somewhat 

 from the Mexican type of the subgenus Bostrichocentrum in texture 

 and sculpture, it does not seem that the differences are of subgeneric 

 importance, and for the present we will place them in that group. 



The variations in the internal lamellae recorded below are really 

 less discontinuous than might be supposed by the tables. The axial 

 lamella is invariably present, but it varies in strength and length. 

 The superior lamella may be very strong and over a half whorl long, 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



but in other individuals of the same colony it may be small or barely 

 observable, so that the series from a strong lamella to none is prac- 

 tically a continuous one in some colonies, though usually this lamella 

 is either distinctly developed or wholly wanting. The same statement 

 applies to the basal lamella, except that it is never very large and 

 usually quite small and short when present. 



The study of these races is extremely complex, and we have been 

 unable to find time to enter upon it seriously. Any full record of a 

 form should take into account the number of ribs on a whorl or their 

 distance apart, as well as the proportions of the shell, number of whorls, 

 length of cone, and the lamellae. 



(a) In many colonies a longer and a shorter form may be selected, 

 with only few intergrading specimens; and there may also be a notice- 

 able difference in sculpture. Such colonies may perhaps be hybrid, 

 composed of two incipient races. (6) Different colonies in the same 

 district, often living under apparently identical conditions, and 

 frequently in close proximity, may show differences in size, ribbing or 

 comparative frequency of certain combinations of lamella?, in fact, 

 incipient racial divergence. The mingling of two or more such colonies 

 by their spread, aided by changing conditions of surface, may have 

 given rise to colonies of the (a) type. 



In some cases, where the colonies are widely separated, they have 

 apparently evolved into reasonably distinct subspecies, probably 

 in the alienee of int emigration. The Cave Creek colonies of H. 

 chiricahuana illustrate this. 



Holospira arizonensis Steams. PI. XI, figs. 1-4. 



H. arizonensis Stearns, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIII, 1890, p. 208, pi. 15, 

 figs. 2, 3 (Cave at Dos Cabezas). Bartsch, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. 

 31, 1906, p. 134. 



This species has hitherto been known by fourteen fragments and 

 one perfect specimen, the type No. 104,392 U. S. N. M. It measures, 

 length 12.S, diam. at 10th whorl 4.2 mm., whorls 12. We did not 

 visit Dos Cabezas Cave, but our guide and driver, Mort Wien. passed 

 there and collected a series of shells from close to, almost in, the mouth 

 of the cave. 24 Fresh shells are pale corneous brown, glossy, bluish 

 and subtransparent in places on the intermediate whorls. First 2\ 

 whorls smooth; following 6 whorls sharply striate, the striation grad- 

 ually disappearing, so that two or three whorls preceding the last are 

 smoothish. The last whorl is dull, coarsely striate, its outer wall 



24 It is stated that Mr. Vernon Bailey collected the types in the cave. They 

 had doubtless been carried there by wind or mice. This accounts for the broken 

 condition of all but one specimen of the type lot. No Arizonian Holospira 

 lives in caves or shaded or damp places. They live in dry and sunny situations. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



flattened and tapering to the base, which is a little gibbons and rounded. 

 Its latter part is straightened and runs forward shortly beyond the 

 preceding whorl, the upper wall descending slightly. Otherwise it is 

 not noticeably contracted behind the aperture. The outer lip is 

 narrowly expanded and revolute, and is lined within with a rather 

 thin white callus. 



One living specimen in the lot is an albino, pure white with some 

 bluish spots. 



The axial lamella is strongly developed; superior lamella variable, 

 but usually strong and extending through the last half of the penultimate 

 whorl. Basal lamella variable, usually wanting, but sometimes strong. 

 Twenty specimens opened give the following data: 



Three lamellae: superior, axial and basal (15%) — 



Length 14, diam. 4 mm. ; whorls 12^. 

 14, " 4 " " 12f. 



13.5, " 4 " " 12^ 



Two lamellae: superior and axial (65%) — 

 Length 14.8, diam. 4 mm.; whorls 13i. 



One lamella: axial (20%)— 



Length 12, diam. 3 . 8 mm. ; whorls 1 H. 



11.8, " 3.8 " " Hi 



11.3, " 3.8 " " Hi 

 f « 4 " " (spire broken). 



The above specimens were taken at random. 

 Holospira arizonensis emigrans n. subsp. PI. XI. figs. 5-8. 



The shell is in the average more slender than arizonensis, with more 

 numerous whorls ; striation slightly finer, and often extending weakly 

 upon the smoother lower whorls; the last whorl has abroad contraction 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



behind the lip, preceded by an opaque white, very coarsely striate, 

 inflation; base opaque white, projecting more than in the type; callus 

 within the outer lip is very heavy. Color dull corneous brown, like 

 the type. 



Head of Big Emigrant Canyon, in the region of pifion pine groves. 

 Type No. 99,701 A. N. S. P. from Station 1; also taken at several 

 stations eastward in the same neighborhood. 



The head of Big Emigrant Canyon is cut into numerous small 

 ravines, the northern slopes of which are wooded with pinons. The 

 rock is limestone. Here Holospira was found in large numbers. In 

 the type lot 25 specimens, taken wholly at random from a series of 

 some hundreds, were opened and measured. 



Three lamellae: superior, axial and basal (16%) — 

 Length 13 . 5, diam. 4 mm. ; whorls 13*. 

 " 13, " 3.9 " " m. 



12.3, " 3.9 " " 12*. 



u 12j a 4 a u 12 l 



Two lamellae: superior and axial (24%) — 

 Length 13.4, diam. 3.9 mm.; whorls 13*. 



One lamella: axial (60%) — 



Length 15.1, diam. 3.9 mm.; whorls 16. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



The smallest individual in the lot measures, length 11, diam. 3.4, 

 whorls 12^. It has superior and axial lamellae. 



In another lot from a colony not far from Station 1, in 20 shells 

 opened the proportions are : 



Three lamella?, superior, axial and basal 4 specimens, 20% 



Two lamellae, superior and axial 10 " 50% 



One lamella, the axial 6 " 30% 



Two other small lots were taken a mile or two southeast from 

 Station 1, the shells resembling the type lot, though perhaps there 

 may be a greater proportion of slender specimens among them. 



HIGH R/DGE 



MESA 



Fig. 25. — Principal collecting stations in Big Emigrant Canyon. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



At Station 2, at the bottom of the canyon (middle branch), a few- 

 dead specimens sharply, but very finely, striate throughout were found 

 (pi. XI, figs. 9, 10, 11, 12). On the tapering cone and basal whorl 

 the striae are coarser. At the head of this branch a small series (about 

 25) of similar shells Avas found. They are hardly distinguishable 

 from H. cionella. Holospira colonies are scattered profusely all over 

 the head slopes of Big Emigrant Canyon. We doubt whether more 

 than one specific stock is represented there, though when thoroughly 

 worked several minor races might be mapped out. 

 Holospira cionella Pils. PI. XII, figs, l, 2. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1908, p. 217. 



The types of this species came from near Old Fort Bowie. The fort 

 stands on the narrow and Ioav neck which unites the Dos Cabezas 

 range with the Chiricahuas proper. Only the adobe walls now stand; 

 only the cemetery remains to be guarded! The ridge has here a 

 minimum elevation of 5,500 feet. About a mile south Mr. Dixon's 

 place lies in the valley east of two conical peaks, known as Bull Hill 

 and Quartzite Peak, the former of cherty limestone formation. Holo- 

 spira cionella is found on the slope of Bull Hill facing the fort, the 

 exact spot being along a tiny gully w T hich crosses the trail to the fort. 

 This place is indicated on the right at (3) in the photograph reproduced 

 on page 67. It probably has an elevation of 6,000 to 6,200 feet. 

 Another colony is on the lower slope of Quartzite Peak, toward Dixon's 

 house, also indicated in the photograph at (2). Specimens from this 

 place agree most closely with the original types of cionella. 



The figured types (pi. XII, figs. 1, 2) are cylindric shells, evenly and 

 rather finely but strongly rib striate, the striae not weaker on the latter 

 whorls ; they are coarser on the swelling behind the contraction preced- 

 ing the lip. Out of 11 shells of the type lot opened, 9 have an axial 

 lamella only; 2 have axial and superior or parietal lamellae. When 

 originally describing this species only a few specimens were opened, 

 and all happened to have one lamella only. The four specimens figured 

 in 1905 measure as follows (the first three may be considered cotypes) : 



Length 12, diam. 3.1 mm. ; whorls 12^. 

 11.3, " 3.25 " " 12. 



11, " 3.25 " " 12. 



8.7, " 3 " " 11. 



Bull Hill (pi. XII, figs. 4-8). Specimens from the locality facing 

 the Fort are all smaller than the types, though a few individuals of 

 the original lot, such as pi. 27, fig. 31, of our former paper, are entirely 

 similar. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Twenty taken at random measure : 



Two lamellae: axial and parietal — 

 Length 10, diam. 3 mm. ; whorls 12. 



Goodwin's Canyon, near Lawhorn's ranch, not far south of Nine-mile 

 Water Hole, is the locality of a small series taken by Mort Wien (pi. XII, 

 fig. 3). They are decidedly wider than Fort Bowie cionella, and have 

 either two or three lamellae in the few examples opened. It is apparent- 

 ly a subordinate race of cionella. The largest and smallest measure: 



Length 11, diam. 3.5 mm.; whorls 12*. 

 10, " 3.5 " " 11*. 



Some specimens of similarly wide shape, but with only the axial 

 lamella, in a few opened, were taken by Mort Wien "a half mile from 

 Dos Cabezas Cave." 

 Holospira cionella intermedia n. subsp. PI. XIII, figs. 1-14. 



The head and southern slope of White Tail Canyon are inhabited 

 by a race closely related to C. cionella, but remarkably polymorphic. 

 The internal lamella? vary from one to three, but in most colonies 

 there are one or two, the former number predominating. The sculpture 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



is always coarse on the cone, but on the cylindric part it may be coarse, 

 partially effaced, or fine, in specimens of the same colony, while in 

 some other colonies one or other of these conditions may be developed 

 separately. The White Tail series deserves far more study than we 

 have been able to find time for. 



The shell differs from H. cionella by the perceptibly longer taper 

 and coarser striation of the terminal cone, and slightly greater develop- 

 ment of the basal crest. In the form selected as type (pi. XIII, fig. 3) 

 the ribs continue throughout, but in many examples of the same lot 

 they weaken more or less on the penultimate and next earlier whorls. 

 The callus within the aperture is very heavy. 



Type locality on the south side of the "box" of White Tail Canyon. 

 Types (pi. XIII, fig. 3,) No. 99,684 A. N. S. P. It also was taken 

 at Stations 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 14; most or all of these colonies being of 

 considerable extent, although' the gathering in each case was made 

 in a small area. The highest points are at Stations 1, 3 and 8; the 

 lowest in the Box Canyon and between Stations 14 and 13. See map 

 on p. 75. It was taken also in Jhu Canyon, Turkey Creek and Time- 

 stone Mountain. All of these stations are on limestone. 



There is variation in sculpture in the type colony, some examples 

 being strongly striate throughout, but in most the striae are weaker 

 on the penult whorl. PI. XIII, figs. 3, 4 and 5, represent shells from 

 the type colony. Thirty-seven specimens of this lot opened measure: 



(Shells with the ribs weak on penultimate whorl.) 

 One lamella: axial — 

 Length 13, diam. 3.9 mm. 



Two lamellae : axial and superior- 

 Length 12.1, diam. 3.4 mm. 

 11, " 3.4 " 



" 10, " 3.4 " 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Three lamellae: axial, superior and basal — 

 Length 10, diam. 3 . 4 mm. 



(Shells with strong ribs throughout.) 



One lamella : axial — 



Length 12, diam. 3.3 mm. (Type specimen, pi. XIII, fig. 3). 



Two lamellae : axial and superior — 



Length 11.7, diam. 3 . 4 mm. 

 " 11, " 3.4 " 



10.7, " 3.2 " 

 10, " 3.5 " 



" 9, " 3 " Specimen figured, pi. XIII, fig. 5. 



Station 2. — Similar specimens occurred at higher levels at Station 2. 

 A large proportion of these specimens are ribbed throughout. The 

 lamellae in 15 shells opened are as follows : 



10 shells have 1 lamella, the axial. 

 5 shells have 2 lamellae, axial and superior. 



Station 3.- — Shells were taken under stones on the sunny side of the 

 ridge, and another lot on the summit of the ridge. The majority of 

 the shells are ribbed throughout, but some have the penultimate 

 whorl nearly smooth. Most specimens are 10 to 11 mm. long. In 

 13 opened: 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



8 shells have 1 lamella, the axial. 



5 shells have 2 lamellae, axial and superior. 



PI. XIII, figs. 1, 2, Station 4, northwest branch of ravine back of 

 Gardner's Mine, about three-quarters of the distance to summit. 

 Some of the shells have the terminal cone slightly shorter than in the 

 types. Sculpture variable, as shown in the figures. Internal lamellae 

 1 , 2 or 3. In 20 specimens opened : 



10 have 1 lamella, the axial. 

 8 have 2 lamellae, axial and superior. 

 2 have 3 lamellae, axial, superior and basal. 



Below Station 5, pi. X1I1, figs. 13, 14. The shells are small and 

 ribbed throughout, rarely over 9 mm. long. 



Box Canyon. — In the Box Canyon, at two stations, one some dis- 

 tance below Station 5 (pi. XIII, figs. 6, 7, 8), the other at the mouth of 

 Indian Creek, the shells are long and slender, strongly ribbed throughout. 

 Axial and superior lamellae are present in a few opened. 



Length 13, diam. 3.2 mm.; whorls 14. 

 10, " 3.2 " " m. 



Station 8. — A small series agrees, at least superficially, with those 

 from Station 14, which lies about 800 feet lower. 



Station 14. — The shells do not differ much from the type lot. There 

 is a longer and coarsely ribbed and a shorter, more closely ribbed, 

 form. Of the longer form we opened 10 shells, 1 having three, 4 two, and 



5 one lamellae. In seven of the shorter form opened 1 has two lamellae, 



6 have one lamella. 



Forms from head of Onion Creek. — Two forms are represented in 

 the small lot examined. PL XIII, fig. 9, shows a slender shell with 

 coarse, very widely spaced ribs: length 12, diam 3.3 mm., whorls 12^. 

 It has one lamella, the axial. PL XIII, figs. 10, 11, 12, represents the 

 prevalent form, shorter than the preceding, very finely and closely 

 ribbed throughout, or the ribs may be weak or subobsolete on the 

 penultimate next preceding whorls. In five opened, only the axial 

 lamella is present. 



Length 10.5, diam. 3.5 mm.; whorls 11^. 

 9.5, " 3.3 " " 10i 



Jhu Canyon. — At the head of Jhu Canyon a gathering consists of 

 two forms, similar to pi. XIII, figs. 9-12, from Onion Creek. The 

 larger form is near typical intermedia, but the smaller may represent 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



another race of the White Tail type. The material is not sufficient 

 for a definite decision. 



Turkey Creek. — On the right (north) side, about two miles below 

 Paradise (pi. XII, figs. 13, 14, 15, 16), Holospira apparently referable 

 to intermedia was found in two colonies, very variable in size and 

 sculpture. Internal lamellae one, two or three. 



Limestone Mountain. — Although very widely separated from the 

 range of intermedia, the shells do not seem separable from that race. 

 Four are figured, pi. XII, figs. 9, 10, 11, 12. 

 Holospira cionella capillacea n. subsp. PI. XIII, figs. 15, 16. 



Similar to intermedia except that the intermediate whorls are very 

 finely, closely striated; only the axial lamella developed, in a few 

 opened. Length 11.7 to 12, diam. 3.5 mm. White Tail Canyon, 

 Station 10, about half way to the summit of the ridge, below cliffs. 

 This colony is the only one found in igneous rock (rhyolite). Sonorella 

 micro, and Ashmunella lepiderma occur in the same vicinity. Holo- 

 spira was very scarce. 



Holospira chiricahuana Pilsbry. PI. XIV, figs. 5-8. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 219, pi. 26, fig. 9; pi. 27, figs. 26-29; p. 215, 

 fig. 4. 



The type locality of H . chiricahuana is on the steep slopes of a small 

 dry ravine or wash tributary to Cave Creek, below and near the 

 entrance of the cave. The slope faces the south and is composed of 

 very steeply dipping friable calcareous shale and earth formed by its 

 decomposition, with sparse vegetation, agave, sotol and bear grass. 

 Dead shells are scattered in profusion, and the living ones lurk under 

 bunches of dead bear grass, etc. The colony is about one-eighth of 

 a mile long and perhaps 100 yards wide. This is also the type locality 

 of Oreohelix chiricahuana. Map on p. 107, Station 8. 



A majority of the specimens (82 per cent.) have a superior or parietal 

 lamella from \ to h of a whorl long, on the roof of the penultimate 

 whorl near its end, above the aperture or on the front side, but in some 

 (18 per cent.) this is wanting. In those of the type lot formerly 

 opened it was absent or very weak, but in others of the type lot, as 

 well as in many topotypes opened, this lamella is more or less strongly 

 developed. The interior of the outer lip is very heavily thickened 

 with a white callus within. 



All forms of H. chiricahuana thus far found have the shell strongly 

 ribbed throughout, with no tendency to become smoother on the 

 cylindrical portion. 



While in the type form of H. chiricahuana the internal lamellae are 

 inconstant, yet in several other colonies localized in various parts of 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



the Cave Creek Valley the lamellae seem to be constant, so far as we 

 can judge from the limited material taken. It must be remembered 

 that many other colonies doubtless exist. 



The additional locality, "Fort Bowie," given in our original account, 

 was evidently due to some mixture of labels or specimens. Thorough 

 search in 1906 showed that it does not occur there. The large specimen 

 represented in pi. XXVII, fig. 26, of our paper of 1905, was probably 

 not from the type locality, but picked up somewhere else in Cave 

 Creek Valley. 



Fifty specimens opened, taken at random from a lot of several 

 hundred topotypes, measure as follows: 



Holospira chiricahuana ternaria n. subsp. PI. XIV. figs. 1-4. 



At the end of the penultimate whorl there are usually three internal 

 lamellae: parietal, axial and basal. Shell usually larger with more 

 whorls, but otherwise as in the type. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Length 12.2, diam. 3.4 mm.; whorls 13^. 



Station 6, about half way up the northern slope of a long ridge 

 which projects into Cave Creek Valley from the western border. 



Fifty-three specimens were taken from a single small colony. The 

 frozen ground did not encourage a thorough investigation. Out of 

 20 opened, 17 have three internal lamellae and three have only one, 

 the axial. 



Holospira chiricahuana optima n. subsp. PI. XIV, figs. 13-15. 



The shell is larger and perceptibly more slowly tapering than H. 

 chiricahuana, with more whorls, and only one internal lamella, the 

 axial, in 20 specimens opened. 



Station 5, at the base of the north slope of the ridge mentioned 

 above, close to the stream, under stones. The larger size of the shells 

 might be thought due to the more humid and shaded situation than that 

 inhabited by the typical form, were it not that Holospira prefers hot 

 and arid places and does not exist at all in damp situations. A 

 single colony found. About 75 shells were taken. Thirty-five of 

 them, unselected, measure as follows: 



Whorls. Length. Diam. Whorls. 



14f 13 3.5 13+ 



13| 13 3.5 12f 



13f 13 3.3 13+ 



14+ 13 3.3 13+, 



13+ 13 3.4 13+ 



•2 



1 



13f 13 3.2 13 

 13f 12.9 3.6 12f 

 14 12.8 3.5 13+ 



14+, 12.7 3.3 13+, 



14+ 12.7 3.3 13 



14 12.6 3.4 13*, 



14 12.5 3.5 13+, 



14 12.1 3.25 13 



14+ 12 3.7 12+, 



13i 12 3.3 13+ 



13+ 11.3 3.5 12+ 



13f 11.2 3.3 13i 

 13 



9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Holospira chiricahuana gracilis n. subsp. PI. XIV, figs. 9-12. 



The shell is more slender and tapers more slowly than the type, 

 and has more whorls. It is more slender than H. c. optima. Only 

 the axial lamella developed in 19 out of 20 specimens opened, the 

 other one having a strong parietal lamella also. 



Found at Station 10, on the crest of a narrow ridge, a spur from the 

 south wall of Cave Creek Valley, which terminates in a high conical 

 hill standing not far from the creek. This is the only colony of the 

 species found south of Cave Creek, the others being north of the 

 creek. One colony of small extent. 



Thirty specimens measure : 



Length. Diam. Whorls. Length. Diam. Whorls. 



LIMACIDiE. 

 Agriolimax hemphilli ashmuni Pils. and Van. 



Barfoot and Long Parks. The specimens vary from a pale yellowish- 

 gray to the blackish color of the types. 



ZONITID^J. 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Long Park, 8,000 feet ; Head of Cave Creek, at about the same eleva- 

 tion; Barfoot Park. 

 Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Head of Cave Creek, 8,000 feet; Long Park, Station 12 a; Rustler 

 Park; Rucker Canyon. It is not commonly diffused, and seems to be 

 absent in the dryer part of the range. 

 Zonitoides milium meridioiialis P. and F. 



Quartzite Peak, near Fort Bowie; head of Cave Creek, 8,000 feet; 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Rustler and Long Parks; head of Pine Canyon; Rucker Canyon, 

 7,000 feet. 



Zonitoides minuscula alachuana (Dall). 



Barfoot Park; Pine Canyon; Spring in lower Rucker Canyon. 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata (Ckll.). 



Chiricahua Mountains; Buckeye Canyon, in the Dos Cabezas range; 

 Bull Hill and Quartzite Peak, near Fort Bowie; Big Emigrant Canyon 

 at Stations 1, 2, 3, 5, 6; White Tail Canyon at about all the stations 

 east of Stations 4 and 5, at all elevations; Jhu Canyon; Paradise 

 Canyon, on the right side, below the town; Cave Creek Canyon, Stations 

 4, 6, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14; Barfoot Park; Long Park; Rustler Park; Rucker 

 Canyon; Horseshoe Canyon. Probably occurs wherever snails live 

 in the Chiricahuas. 



Genus EUCONULUS Reinhardt. 



The term Euconulus was proposed by Reinhardt in 1883 for the 

 typical group of Conulus, in which he included Kaliella. Conulus 

 being preoccupied, Pilsbry in 1900 27 substituted Euconulus for the 

 generic group, with fulvus as type. Dall, 1905, 28 has given the generic 

 synonymy and references in full. Mr. J. W. Taylor in his monograph 

 of British land shells (1908) has discussed the varieties of E. fulvus. 

 His treatment of E. cher sinus as a variety of fulvus was evidently due 

 to the lack of specimens, for the two forms are much less alike than 

 the several small British species of Hyalinia which he distinguishes, 

 and in fact are unusually distinct as species go among the small Zoni- 

 tidae. One of the European forms is apparently close to chersinus; 

 but an intelligible exposition and revision of the Euconulus of Europe 

 remains a desideratum. There is no trustworthy record of Euconulus 

 fulvus from Japan, though E. fulvus alasketisis may naturally be 

 expected to occur in the Kuril Islands, Yesso and Saghalin. 



Euconulus fulvus alaskensis (Pils.). 



Conulus fulvus alaskensis Pils., Nautilus, XII, February, 1899, p. 116. Cf. 

 Dall, Land and Fresh Water Mollusks, Harriman Alaska Exped., 1905, 

 p. 40, and Pilsbry, Nautilus, XXII, 1908, p. 25. 



Chiricahua Mountains : White Tail Canyon, high on the northeastern 

 side below the confluence of Indian Creek; Cave Creek Canyon at 

 Stations 3 and 4 near the northeastern rim; Barfoot, Long and 

 Rustler Parks; head of Pine Canyon, 7,500 feet ; Box of Rucker Canyon. 



27 Nautilus, XIV, Nov., 1900, p. 81. 



28 Harriman Alaska Exped., Mollusks, p. 39. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



Chiefly or wholly found at high elevations, and very rare in the region 

 north of Cave Creek. 



E. fulvus alaskensis differs chiefly from fulvus by having about one 

 whorl less in shells of similar size. On the first whorl the radial striae 

 begin at the first fourth, and are about as close as on the rest of the 

 shell. There are no spiral striae on the first or later whorls. The 

 last whorl has 90 to 105 striae in 1 mm. E. /. alaskensis was described 

 from Dyea Valley, Alaska. It is also before us from Petropavlovsk, 

 Kamchatka, collected by Dr. William H. Dall. It extends southward 

 in the Rocky Mountains to the Chiricahua and Huachuca ranges, in 

 southern Arizona, chiefly at high elevations. 



Fig. 26. — Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. A, B, cotype, Dyea Valley, Alaska; 

 C, Head of Cave Creek, Chiricahua Mountains. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has made a careful study of the American forms 

 of Euconulus fulvus in order to determine the status of the Chiricahuan 

 form, using high magnification to bring out the minute sculpture. 

 It appears that all the forms examined have a minute sculpture of 

 excessively close, regular vertical striae, though in some examples 

 it is less distinct than in others. This sculpture, when strongly 

 developed, lends a silk-like luster to the surface in quite fresh examples. 



In E. fulvus from the northeastern United States the first whorl has 

 fine spiral striae and very indistinct traces of vertical (radial) striae, not 

 seen in some but legible, though weak, in other examples. The upper 

 surface of the last whorl has about 126 vertical striae in 1 mm., crossed 

 by spiral striae. There are about 6 whorls (figs. 27, b, c, Herkimer 

 Co., N. Y., No. 59,521 A. N. S. P., alt. 2.4, diam. 3.1 mm. Fig. d, 

 Buckfield, Oxford Co., Maine, No. 87,302 A. N. S. P., alt. 3.5, diam. 

 3.4 mm.). The largest examples seen are from Buckfield, Me., 

 collected by Mr. J. A. Allen. 



An English example (fig. 27a, Burnley, England, R. Walton coll., 

 75,912 A. N. S. P.) has distinct vertical striae on the first whorl as well 

 as spirals, and on the last whorl there are 140 vertical striae in 1 mm., 

 with no noticeable spirals. Alt. 2.4, diam. 2.8 mm. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



133 



It seems that there is considerable variation in the minute sculpture 

 of E. fulvus, though it appears to be always somewhat coarser than in 

 E. chersinus and, in the average at least, finer than in E. fulvus alas- 

 kensis. 



Euconulus chersinus (Say) is, of course, a very distinct species from 

 all of the preceding. No conchologist who actually examines fulvus 

 and chersinus with an ordinary hand lens could lump them. Mr. 

 Vanatta's study of the microscopic sculpture has shown that there is 

 little real difference between chersinus and polygyralus, and we are 



Fig. 27. — Euconulus fulvus (Mull.). A, Burnley, England; B, C, Herkimer 

 County, N. Y.; D, Buckfield, Maine. 



now disposed to drop the latter as a synonym. E. chersinus (poly- 

 gyralus) occurs associated with fulvus in some Maine localities. E. 

 chersinus has not been found in New Mexico or Arizona. 



ENDODONTIDiE. 

 Pyramidula (Gonyodiscus) cronkhitei (Newc). 



Foot of talus about half a mile below Reed's place, in Cave Creek 

 Canyon, Station 11; head of cave, 8,000 feet; Barfoot Park; head of 

 Pine Canyon; Long Park, 8,000 feet; "Box" of Rucker Canyon. 



Helicodiscus eigenmaimi arizonensis Pils. and Ferr. 



Quartzite Peak near Fort Bowie ; head of west branch of Big Emigrant 

 Canyon and at Station 2; White Tail Canyon at Stations 4, 10, in 

 the Box Canyon, and on both sides below the junction of Indian Creek; 

 Cave Creek Canyon at Stations 4 and 14, 8,000 feet; Rustler's Park; 

 head of Pine Canyon; Shake Gulch, Limestone Mountain. 



Radiodiscus millecostatus Pils. and Ferr. 



Head of Cave Creek, 8,000 feet, Station 14; Barfoot Park, Station 3; 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



Pine Canyon, 7,500 feet; Rustler Park; Long Park, 8,000 feet; "Box" 

 in Rucker Canyon. 



This species is new to the Chiricahuas. It was originally described 

 from the Huachuca range. It was found in some profusion in Long 

 Park, many specimens exceeding the type in size, the largest 2.3 mm. 

 in diameter. 



It is somewhat remarkable that this form, belonging to a southern 

 genus and here at the northern edge of its known range, should be 

 found only at high levels. 



Punctum californicum Pils. 



P. californicum Pils.. Nautilus, XI, April, 1898, p. 134 (Fish Camp, Fresno 

 County, California). 



Head of Cave Creek, Station 14, 8,000 feet; Rustler Park; Long 

 Park. Found with Radiodiscus. 



Fig. 28. — Punctum californicum Pils., Rustler Park, Chiricahuas. 



Only seven examples of this atom of life were found, none of them 

 as large as the California types, and probably not fully mature. The 

 figured example measures alt. .82, diam. 1.35, width of umbilicus .35 

 mm., whorls 3^. The first 1| whorls are smooth; then very fine 

 obliquely radial stria? appear. On the last whorl the striation is dense 

 and fine, with thin delicate cuticular laminae on the stria?, which give 

 fresh shells a satin sheen where the light strikes, the color of the shell 

 being light chestnut. Stria? at nearly regular intervals are slightly 

 more prominent. At the periphery there are about 40 of the more 

 prominent stria? in 1 mm. The umbilicus is one-fourth the total 

 diameter. 



An adult shell of the type lot of P. californicum measures 1.8 mm. 

 diam., umbilicus .42 mm., therefore, slightly less than one-fourth the 

 diameter. The sculpture is similar to that of Chiricahua P. cali- 

 fornicum. 



This snail is new to Arizona, having been known hitherto only from 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Fresno County, California. It is one of the very few forms common 

 to Arizona and the West Coast. 



VALLONIIDuEi Pilsbry. 

 Vallonia perspectiva Sterki. 



Summit of Cross J Mountain, Big Emigrant Canyon; Paradise 

 Canyon below Paradise; White Tail Canyon; Spring in lower Rucker 

 Canyon; Limestone Mountain. 



FERUSSACIDiE Bourguignat. 

 Cechlicopa lubrica (Mail.). 



Chiricahua Mountains: Ridge between White Tail Canyon and the 

 Pinery, Station 3; Jhu Canyon; Paradise Canyon; Cave Creek Canyon 

 at Stations 4, 5 and 11 and 14 F, very scarce; Barfoot Park; head of 

 Pine, 7,500 feet; Long Park, 8,000 feet; Box of Rucker Canyon. 



PUPILLIDiE Turton. 



Pupilladce Turton, Manual of the Land and Fresh-water Shells of the British 



Islands, p. 97 (1831). 

 Pupillidce, Pilsbry, Nautilus, XVIII, p. 107 (Jan., 1905). 

 PupidfB of authors. 



The northern (Canadian) forms of this group approach their southern 

 limit in the ranges of Southern Arizona. Vertigo is represented only 

 by a few puny forms at high elevations. The Upper Sonoran Bifidariae 

 predominate, especially those of the section Immersidens. 



The family name Pupillidce replaces Pupidce because the generic 

 term Pupa was not based upon a member of this family. 



Genus PUPILLA 'Leach' Turton. 

 Pupilla hebes (Ancey). 



Box in Rucker Canyon; Spring branch of Rucker. The sinistral 

 form of P. hebes (which we will call form nefas) was taken in Pine 

 Canyon, 7,500 feet (type loc), and at the head of Cave Creek, Station 

 14, at 8,000 feet. No dextral examples were taken at either of these 

 stations. 



Genus BIFIDARIA Sterki. 

 Bifidaria pellucida hordeacella (PUs.). 



Summit of Cross J Mountain, Big Emigrant Canyon; Paradise 

 Canyon below Paradise; White Tail Canyon; Cave Creek Canyon on 

 slope below the cave; Shake Gulch, Limestone Mountain. 



Bifidaria quadridentata Sterki. 

 Barfoot Park, one specimen. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Section ALBINULA ' Ckll ' Sterki. 

 Bifidaria pilsbryana Sterki. 



Rustler's Park; White Tail Canyon; Pine Canyon, 7,500 feet; Box 

 in Rucker Canyon; Limestone Mountain, in Shake Gulch. 



Section IMMERSIDENS Pils. and Van. 



In the central sierras, from the Grand Canyon of the Colorado to 

 the Mexican State of Michoacan, a distance of over 1200 miles, the 

 typical (or procera) group of Bifidaria gives place to a great extent 

 to a group in which the angular and parietal lamella? are less united, 

 joined only at the inner end of the angular lamella. The basal fold, 

 when present, is radial, or transverse to the cavity. This group is 

 morphologically in a more primitive stage than the eastern Bifidariae, 

 in which the angular and parietal lamellae are more completely con- 

 crescent. Some of the species, however, have evolved very com- 

 plicated apertures. Such forms as B. perversa and B. ashmuni are 

 to be viewed as highly evolved members of a low group. Immer- 

 sidens stands intermediate between Bifideria s. str. and Sterkia. In 

 the latter group the angular and parietal lamellae are not united. 



The following forms from Arizona and New Mexico belong here: 



Bifidaria perversa Sterki. 



" ashmuni Sterki. 



" ashmuni minor Sterki. 



" cochisensis Pils. and Ferr. 



" cochisensis oligobasodon Pils. and Ferr. 



" dalliana Sterki. 



" bilamellata Sterki and Clapp. 



Bifidaria prototypus Pils., from Michoacan, Mexico, also belongs to 

 the group, as a terminal member of a form-chain composed of ashmuni, 

 cochisensis, oligobasodon, prototypus, which constitute successively 

 simpler links in the chain. Probably the great unknown mountain 

 region of Northern Mexico will supply other members of the group. 



In order to complete the account of B. ashmuni and its allies, forms 

 from the Huachuca Mountains and elsewhere have been described 

 and illustrated below. 



Key to Species of Immersidens. 



a. — Shell sinistral, last whorl straightened and produced forward 



(fig. 29) B. perversa Sterki. 



a 1 . — Shell dextral. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



137 



b. — Columella!" lamella running forward on the parietal wall in the 

 position of an infraparietal lamella; inner end of the parietal 

 lamella curving strongly toward the outer wall. 



c. — Length about 2 mm B. ashmuni Sterki. 



c 1 . — Length 1.6 to 1.8 mm B. a. minor Sterki. 



b 1 . — Columellar lamella normal in position, horizontal and con- 

 spicuous in a front view. 



c. — Parietal barrier /-shaped, the inner end curving more or 

 less towards the outer wall. 

 d. — Basal fold well-developed, radial. 



B. cochisensis P. and F. 

 d 1 . — Basal fold minute; angular lamella reduced. 



B. c. oligobasodon P. and F. 

 d 2 . — Basal fold wanting; angular lamella reduced. 



B. prototypus Pils. 

 c 1 . — Parietal lamella straight or bending slightly toward the 

 columella at its inner end; shell small, rather slender. 

 d. — Length 2, diam. 0.85 mm., or smaller; nearly cylindric. 



B. dalliana Sterki. 

 d 1 . — Length 2 to 2.4, diam. 0.9; spire tapering more. 



B. bilamellata S. and C. 29 



Bifldaria perversa Sterki. Fig. 29. 



Bifidaria perversa Sterki, Nautilus, XII, December, 1898, p. 90 (Nogales). 



Found in the Chiricahuas in the Valley of Turkey Creek below 

 Paradise and in White Tail Canyon. Here- 

 tofore known only from Nogales and the drift 

 debris of the San Pedro River at Benson, 

 Arizona. 



Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki. Fig. 30, a, b, c. 



Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki, Nautilus, XII, Sept., 

 1898, p. 49 (Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona; 

 Cook's Peak and Dripping Springs, Organ Moun- 

 tains, New Mexico). 



Bifidaria ashmuni form minor Sterki, t.c, Dec, 

 1898, p. 92 (Nogales, Arizona). 



The typical form of B. ashmuni is nearly 

 cylindric, tapering but slightly, composed of 

 five strongly convex whorls. The last whorl 

 becomes straightened and slightly sinuous in 

 basal view, and has a more or less conspicuous 

 oblique swelling or crest some distance behind 



the aperture. This crest is not always so strong, as shown in fig. 30 c 

 (a specimen from Page's Ranch, Oak Creek, in central Arizona). The 



Fig. 29. — B. perversa, 

 basal view, most of 

 the basal wall re- 

 moved to show the 

 angular, parietal and 

 an d columellar 

 lamellae. 



29 Bifidaria bilamellata Sterki and Clapp, Nautilus, XXII, pi. 8, fig. 7 (March, 

 1909). Sterki, Nautilus, XXII, p. 126 (April, 1909). Yuma County, Arizona. 




138 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



peristome is well expanded, continuous, and usually stands shortly 

 free from the whorl in front. The parietal lamella is sigmoid, bending 

 far to the right at its inner end. The angular lamella, also sigmoid, 

 runs from the peristome to the parietal lamella, the two lamellae to- 

 gether forming a figure like the letter <*. The columellar lamella is 

 broad and horizontal far within, but near the aperture it runs out 

 upon the parietal wall, where it appears as a more or less elevated 

 cord between the parietal lamella and the columella, occupying, 

 therefore, the place of an infraparietal lamella. These lamellae are 

 well shown in fig. 30 b, a basal view in which the base of the shell has 

 been removed. The upper palatal fold is short, situated some distance 

 within the mouth, but visible from in front. The lower palatal is long, 

 entering, and so deeply immersed that it is not visible in a front view, 

 being concealed behind the massive parietal barrier. There is a radially 

 placed basal fold, scarcely or not visible in a front view. Length 

 about 2, diam. 1 mm. 



Fig. 30. — Bifidaria ashmuni Sterki. A, B, Florida Mountains, New Mexico; 

 C, Page's Ranch, Oak Creek, Central Arizona. 



Arizona: Coconino Co., Grand Canyon, on the Bright Angel trail 

 about 100 feet below the rim (Ferriss and Pilsbry); Yavapai Co., 

 Verde River, Walnut Gulch, Mescal Gulch and Kirwagen's ranch, all 

 near Jerome, and along Oak Creek at Owensby's and Page's ranch; 

 along the Santa Fe R. R. at Holbrook, Navajo Co., and Navajo Springs, 

 Apache Co. (Ashmun); Cochise Co., in the Chiricahua range in White 

 Tail Canyon below the mouth of Indian Creek and on Limestone 

 Mountain (Ferriss and Pilsbry); Ash Canon, Huachuca range (Fer- 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



139 



riss and Daniels); Nogales, S. Cruz Co. (Ashmun). New Mexico: 

 Valencia Co., along the Santa Fe R. R., at Grants (Ferriss and Pilsbry) 

 and San Rafael (Ashmun); Mountain Station, Oscura Mountains, 

 Socorro Co., and White Oaks, Lincoln Co., in Central New Mexico 

 (Ashmun) ; Cook's Peak (U. S. N. M.) ; Dripping Spring, Organ Moun- 

 tains (Cockerell); Florida Mountains, Luna Co. (Ferriss and Pilsbry). 



B. ashmuni is distinguished by the strong development of the 

 angulo-parietal lamella, which bends far to the right at its inner end, 

 the very deep immersion of the lower palatal and basal folds, the 

 continuation of the columellar lamella upon the parietal wall, alongside 

 the parietal lamella, and the longer, usually more gibbous, "neck" of 

 the last whorl. 



Fig. 31. — Bifidaria ashmuni minor Sterki, Nogales, Arizona. 



B. ashmuni minor Sterki (fig. 31) is a small race, length about 1.6 

 mm., with 4 to 4^ whorls, found at Nogales, Arizona, and also on the 

 Mexican side of the international boundary. The aperture is sub-- 

 stantiallv like that of ashmuni. 



Bifidaria cochisensis n. sp. Figs. 32, 33. 



The shell is slightly tapering cylindric, like B. ashmuni, but the 

 last whorl is less protracted and the crest or wave behind the aperture 

 is very low, often not noticeable. The peristome is continuous as a 

 slightly raised thread across the parietal wall (or in a less developed 

 form it is rather widely interrupted above). Lamellae weaker than in 

 typical B. ashmuni, especially the angular lamella, which is straighter; 

 parietal lamella less curved at its inner end. Columellar lamella wide 

 and horizontal, not continued upon the parietal wall. Basal and lower 

 palatal folds less deeply immersed than in B. ashmuni, readily visible 

 in the mouth, the basal fold small. 




140 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Length 2 . 5, diam. 1 . 1 mm. ) „ , „ ~ c 00 



„ 22 " ii " i Cotyp^ Tanner Can y° n » fi s- 32 - 



2.15, " 1.1 " Santa Rita Mountains, fig. 33. 



Southeastern Arizona: Chiricahua Mountains, White Tail Canyon; 

 Summit of Cross J Mountain, Big Emigrant Canyon (Ferriss and 

 Pilsbry). Huachuca Mountains, Tanner Canyon, 6,000 feet (Ferriss, 

 type loc). Santa Rita Mountains (Ashmun). 



Fig. 32. — Bifidaria cochisensis P. and F. Types from Tanner Canyon, Huachuca 



Mountains. 



The absence of a forward continuation of the columellar lamella 

 on the parietal wall, between the parietal lamella and the columellar 

 wall, is the most prominent feature of this species, though it has several 

 other constant, if less conspicuous, differential characters. It is de- 

 cidedly less aberrant than B. ashmuni, the lamellae and folds, as well 

 as the less protracted last whorl, approaching the normal Bifidaria 

 type. 



A modification of B. cochisensis also occurs in the Huachucas at 

 Tanner Canyon and in the Chiricahua range on Limestone Mountain. 

 The shell is smaller than usual in cochisensis, about 1 . 9 or 2 mm. long. 

 The teeth are much weaker, especially the angular lamella. The 

 inner end of the parietal lamella is not much curved and is readily 

 visible in an obliquely basal view in the aperture. The basal and 

 palatal folds are less deeply placed, the lower palatal being visible 

 below the apex of the parietal barrier in a front view. The basal 




.1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



141 



fold is very small. The upper margin of the peristome is adnate 

 for some distance. In this form, or race, if such it proves to be, 

 B. ashmuni cochisensis makes its nearest approach to B. dalliana and 

 to the following race. 



Possibly Dr. Sterki at the time of his original description had 

 cochisensis before him, together with typical ashmuni, since he mentions 

 specimens from the Santa Rita Mountains. We have examined a 

 lot collected by Mr. Ashmun at that place and find them all to be 

 .cochisensis. The terms of Sterki's original description apply only 

 to the form herein defined as ashmuni, for he mentions the crest 



Fig. 33. — Bifidaria cochisensis P. and F. Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona. 



"forming a projecting angle at the base" and the columella!- lamella 

 "ascending to the body-whorl between the parietal and columella." 

 Careful examination of a series of several thousand examples, supplying 

 data for the present account, has shown no intergrading forms between 

 ashmuni and cochisensis, yet careful cleaning of the aperture is neces- 

 sary for their discrimination. 



Bifidaria cochisensis oligobasodon n. subsp. Fig. 34, a, b, c. 



The shell is externally similar to B. cochisensis, but differs by the 

 reduction of all the teeth. The parietal barrier is simplified (fig. 34 b), 

 and the basal fold is reduced to a minute tubercle or a mere vestige, 

 or in a few apparently mature shells it seems to be wholly lost. Parietal 

 margin adnate. 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Fig. 34. — Bifidaria cochisensis oligobasodon P. and F. Ash Canyon, Hu'achuca 



Mountains. 



Length 2 . 6, diam. 1 . 1 mm. 

 u 2.1, " 1 



Ash Canyon, Huachuca range. Types No. 97,444 A. N. S. P., 

 cotypes in Ferriss coll. 



This form would be considered specifically distinct from cochisensis 

 were it not approached by a small form of that species from Tanner 

 Canyon, which has weaker teeth than the larger typical cochisensis. 

 B. c. oligobasodon stands very near B. prototypus Pils. 30 (fig. 35), 



Fig. 35. — Bifidaria prototypus Pils. 



30 



Proc. A . N. S. Phila., 1899, p. 400. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



143 



described from the State of Michoacan, Mexico, figured here for com- 

 parison. In a long series of prototypus no specimen with even a 

 vestigeal basal tooth was found. In view, therefore, of the very wide 

 separation of the two forms geographically, it may be best to treat 

 them as specifically diverse. 



Bifidaria dalliana Sterki. Fig. 36. 



Bifidaria dalliana Sterki, Nautilus, XII, p. 91, Dec, 1898. Pilsbrv and 

 Vanatta, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 593, pi. 22, fig. 8. 



Chiricahua Mountains: Quartzite Peak near Fort Bowie; White 

 Tail Canyon in several places (Ferriss and Pilsbry) ; Limestone Moun- 

 tain and Shake Gulch (Ferriss). 



Other Arizona localities in collection A. N. S. P. are Nogales (type 

 loc), Santa Rita Mountains, Montezuma's Well, Salt River near 

 Tempe, Kirwagen's ranch near Jerome; all collected by Mr. Ashmun. 



A B 



Fig. 36. — A. Bifidaria dalliana Sterki, front and obliquely basal views of a speci- 

 men from White Tail Canyon below the junction of Indian Creek, Chiricahua 

 Mountains. B, B. bilamellata S. and C, type. 



B. dalliana is related to B. cochisensis, but differs by being con- 

 spicuously more slender, resembling B. p. hordeacella in shape, but it 

 diverges more fundamentally by the parietal lamella, the inner end of 

 which turns slightly toward the columella, while in B. ashmuni, cochis- 

 ensis and perversa the inner end bends towards the outer wall. 



In the Chiricahuas the specimens are often longer than the types, 

 one figured here measuring 2 mm. long, .85 wide. 



Bifidaria bilamellata Sterki and Clapp stands very close to B. dal- 

 liana, but it differs by having a perceptibly more tapering spire, 

 which is somewhat longer, and the columellar lamella has a vertical 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



callus at its inner end (weaker or wanting in dalliana). The parietal 

 lamellae are substantially alike in the two species. For comparison 

 we reproduce here the type figure of B. bilamellata (fig. 36 B). 



Subgenus CHJENAXIS Pils. and Ferr. 

 Bifidaria tuba Pilsbry and Ferriss. 



A few examples were taken by Mort Wien about half a mile from 

 Dos Cabezas Cave, where it occurred with Holospira. This extends 

 the known range of the species eastward. 



Genus VEBTIGO Muller. 



Vertigo is a distinctly boreal element, confined in the Chiricahuas, 

 so far as our observations show, to high levels. The species are iden- 

 tical with alpine forms of Colorado and Utah. 



Vertigo Columbiana utahensis Sterki. 



Head of Cave Creek, 8,000 feet, one example. 



Vertigo milium Gld. 



Head of Pine Canyon, one specimen. 

 Vertigo modesta parietalis Anc. 



Head of Cave Creek, 8,000 feet ; Long Park. 



Vertigo coloradoensis basidens Pils. and Van. 



Rustler's Park. 



SUCOINEIDJE. 

 Suooinea avara Say. 



Chiricahua Mountains: Cave Creek Canyon on the slope below the 

 cave and at Station 6. 



BASOMMATOPHORA. 



No fresh-water snails were taken in the streams of the Chiricahuas, 

 but Pilsbry found two species in the cienega about midway between 

 the Chiricahua and the Peloncillo or Stein's Peak ranges: Lymncea 

 cockerelli Pils. and Ferr. and Physa virgata Gld. Both are widely if 

 sparsely distributed in Arizona and New Mexico. 



It is said that sometimes blind fish are washed out of the swollen 

 springs in the cienega when the snow melts on the mountains. 



PELECYPODA. 

 Pisidium abditum huachucanum Pils. 



Spring branch, head of Rucker Canyon, many young specimens 

 only; Box in Rucker Canyon. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Explanation of Plates I-XIV. 



Figures 35 and 36 B were drawn by Helen Winchester; the other figures were 

 drawn or photographed by H. A. Pilsbry. 



Plate I — Figs. 1,2, 3 — Sonorella bicipitis n. 3p. Types from Station 1, Buckeye 



Canyon, No. 94,328 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 4, 5— S. bicipitis. Nine-mile Water Hole. Nos. 94,324 and 89,908 A. 



N. S. P. 

 Figs. 6, 7, 8, 9 — Sonorella optata n. sp. Types from head of Big Emigrant 



Canyon. No. 94,319 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 10 — S. optata — Cleft in summit between forks of Big Emigrant Canyon. 



No. 94,321 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs: 11, 12, 18, 19 — S. optata. West side of Big Emigrant Mountain. 



No. 94,320 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 15, 16 — Sonorella bowiensis Pils. Topotypes, from Quartzite 



Peak, near Fort Bowie. No. 94,327 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 17 — S. optata, small form. Head of Big Emigrant Canyon. No. 99,789 



A. N. S. P. 



Plate II — Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Sonorella virilis Pils. Cave Creek, Station 11 (topo- 

 types of var. circumstriata) . No. 94,332 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 4, 5 — S. virilis. Two miles up the south fork of Cave Creek. No. 

 94,335 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 6 — S. virilis. Spring Branch near Rucker Camp, head of Rucker 

 Canyon. No. 97,563 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 7, 8, 9 — Sonorella virilis leucura n. subsp. White Tail Canyon, Station 

 14. No. 99,682 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 10, 11 — Sonorella micra n. sp. Station 10, White Tail Canyon. No. 

 94,334 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 12—5. micra. Station 17, White Tail Canyon. No. 94,330 A. N. S. P. 



Figs. 13-18 — Sonorella binneyi n. sp. Horseshoe Canyon. 



Plate III— Fig. 1 — Sonorella bicipitis Pils and Ferr. Genitalia of specimen 

 from Buckeye Canyon. Station 3. X 3. No. 94,326. 



Fig. 2 — S. bicipitis. Genitalia of specimen from Nine-mile Water Hole. 

 No. 94,324. X 3. 



Fig. 3 — Side of the head of same specimen. 



Fig. 4 — S. bicipitis. Penis opened to show the papilla. Buckeye Canyon, 

 Station 4. No. 94,325. 



Fig. 5 — Sonorella binneyi Pils and Ferr. Genitalia of No. 97,414. Horse- 

 shoe Canyon. 



Fig. 6 — S. bicipitis. Sole of specimen from Nine-mile Water Hole. No. 

 94,324. 



Fig. 7 — S. bicipitis. Genitalia of specimen from Buckeye Canyon, Station 

 1. X 3. No. 94,328 (type lot). 



Plate IV — Fig. 1 — Sonorella optata Pils and Ferr. Genitalia of No. 94,322. 



Big Emigrant Mountain, X 3, with details of penis, papilla and the 



vestigeal flagellum (/?.). 

 Fig. 2—S. optata. West Side of Big Emigrant Canyon. No. 94,320. X 4. 

 Fig. 3 — S. optata. Big Emigrant Canyon, Station 1. No. 94,319. X 4. 

 Fig. 4— S. optata. Cleft in Big Emigrant Canyon. No. 94,321. X 4. 

 Fig. 5 — S. optata. Genitilia of young snail. No. 94,323. X 14. Outline 



of penis papilla shown by broken line. 

 Fig. 6 — Sonorella bowiensis Pils. Genitalia of a topotype. X 3. No. 



94,327. 

 Fig. 7 — <S. optata. Genitalia of a nearly mature snail. No. 94,323. X 4. 



Cross J. Mountain. 



Plate V — Fig. 1 — Sonorella micra Pils and Ferr. Genitalia. X 4. No. 

 94,334. From Station 10, "White Tail Canyon. The penis is extended, 

 its papilla projecting. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Fig. 2 — S. micra. Detail of same specimen showing the epiphallus extended . 



Fig. 3— -S. micra. No 94,330. X 4. Penis normally retracted, with 

 detail of end of the papilla. 



Fig. 4 — S. virilis Pils. Specimen from Station 11, Cave Creek Canyon. 

 X 2. No. 94,332. 



Fig. 5 — Sonorella virilis leucura Pils. and Ferr. X 2. White Tail Canyon, 

 Station 4. No. 94,331. The twisted condition of the penis is an acci- 

 dental or individual peculiarity of this specimen. 



Fig. 6— S. virilis. X 2. Cave Creek, Station 13. No. 94,335. With 

 detail of opposite side of the vagina 



Plate VI — Figs. 1, 2, 3 — Oreohelix barbata Pils. An adult and two immature 



individuals from the head of Turkey Creek. 

 Fig. 4 — 0. barbata. Less fully scaled form with blunt periphery. Head 



of Rucker Canyon, Station 10 A. 

 Figs. 5, 6, 7 — 0. barbata minima Pils. and Ferr. Rucker Canvon, Station 



11JA. 



Plate VII— Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4 — Ashmunella lepiderma n. sp. White Tail Canyon, 

 Station 11. 

 Figs. 5, 6, 7 — .4. lepiderma. Station 17. 



Plate VIII — Figs. 1-8 — Ashmunella duplicidens Pils. 



Plate IX — Figs. 1, 2 — Ashmunella esuritor Pils. Near Barfoot Park, Station 



2. No. 92,205. Elevated specimen. 

 Figs. 3 — Pine Canyon, No. 97,930. Elevated specimen. 

 Figs. 4, 5 — Near Barfoot Park. No. 92,205. Depressed specimen. 

 Figs. 6, 7, 8— East side of Barfoot Park. No. 94,432. Diameter 16$ mm. 

 Fig. 9 — Ashmunella metamorphosa Pils. Aperture of type specimen. 



No. 88,885. 



Plate X — Fig. 1 — Ashmunella chiricahuana (Dall). Falls of Cave Creek. 



No. 97,427 A. N. 8. P. 

 Fig. 2 — Ashmunella esuritor Pils. E. side Barfoot Park. No. 94,432. 

 Fig. 3 — Ashmunella esuritor. Topotype. No. 92,205. 

 Fig. 4 — Ashmunella chiricahuana (Dall). Head of Cave Creek, near Long 



Park. No. 94,430. 

 Fig. 5 — Ashmunella esuritor Pils. E. side Barfoot Park. No. 94,432. 

 Fig. 6 — Ashmunella angidata Pils. Cave Creek Canyon. No. 87,020. 

 Fig. 7 — Ashmunella ferrissi Pils. Topotype. No. 97,925. 

 Fig. 8 — Ash?nunella duplicidens Pils. Head of Morse Canyon. 

 Fig. 9 — Ashmunella proximo emigrans Pils. Cotype. No. 99,604. 



Plate XI — Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4 — Holospira arizonensis Stearns. Topotypes from 



Dos Cabezas Cave. No. 99,700 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8 — H. arizonensis emigrans n. subsp. JHead of West branch 



of Big Emigrant Canyon. No. 99,701 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 9, 10, 11, 12 — H. arizonensis. ^Form from Station 2, Big Emigrant 



Canyon. No. 99,702 A. N. S. P. 



Plate XII — Figs. 1, 2 — Holospira cionella Pils. Two cotvpes. No. 87,117 



A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 3 — H. cionella. Form from Goodwin Canyon. No. 99,710 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 4-8 — H. cionella. Forms from Bull Hill, near Fort Bowie. No. 99,709 



A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 9, 10, 11, 12 — H. cionella. Forms from Limestone Mountain. No 



97,424, A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 15, 16 — H . cionella. Forms from below Paradise. No. 99,726 



A. N. S. P. 



Plate XIII — Figs. 1, 2 — Holospira cionella intermedia P. and F. White Tail 

 Canyon, Station 4. No. 99,717. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



147 



Figs. 3, 4, 5 — Holospira cionella intermedia P. and F. Types. Box Canyon 



of White Tail. No. 99,684. 

 Figs. 6, 7. 8 — Holospira cionella intermedia P. and F. Types. Box Canyon 



of White Tail, another colony. 

 Figss. 9, 10, 11, 12— Holospira cionella intermedia P. and F. Two forms 



from head of Onion Creek. No. 99,724. 

 Figs. 13, 14— Do. Below Station 5, White Tail Canyon. No. 99,7 IS. 

 Figs. 15, 16 — H. c. capillacea P. and F. Southeast side of White Tail, 



below cliffs half way to summit. No. 99,727. 



Plate XIV — Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4 — Holospira chiricahuana ternaria n. subsp. Cave 



Creek, Station 6. No. 99,699 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8 — Holospira chiricahuana Pils. Topotypes, cave in Cave 



Creek. No. 99,696 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 9, 10, 11, 12 — H. chiricahuana gracilis n. subsp. Cave Creek, Station 



10. No. 99,698 A. N. S. P. 

 Figs. 13, 14, 15 — H. chiricahuana optima n. subsp. Cave Creek Station 5. 



No. 99,697 A. N. S. P. 




148 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



A NEW SPECIES OF MARINULA FROM NEAR THE HEAD OF THE GULF OF 



CALIFORNIA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Marinula rhoadii n. sp. Fig. 1. 



The shell is imperforate, elliptical-ovate, rather solid; spire pale 



yellowish ; the last whorl has a dark band at the shoulder, and is pale 



yellow above, more or less suffused with 

 brown below the band. Surface smooth- 

 ish, under the lens showing fine, irregular 

 growth-lines (much more emphatic for a 

 short distance behind the outer lip) and 

 very faint excessively fine spiral striae. 

 Spire short, conic, attenuate near the 

 apex. Whorls 5f, slightly convex, the 

 last flattened or a little impressed below 

 the suture. Last whorl oval. Aperture 

 narrow, the outer lip thin, without callus 

 deposit within. Parietal lamella very 

 high and compressed. Two columellar 

 lamellae, the upper one larger. 



Length 10, diam. 5.8 mm.; length of 

 aperture 6.9 mm. 



Length 9 . 8 diam. 5 . 3 mm. ; length of 

 aperture 6 . 2 mm. 



Hardie River, Lower California, near Mt. Cocopah Major, types 

 No. 97,757 A. N. S. P., collected by Mr. S. N. Rhoads, Feb. 22, 1905. 



Compared with Marinula pepita King this species differs by its much 

 more inflated shape, the more slender spire, more or less attenuate 

 above, the nearly even suture, and the varied coloring. The face of 

 the columella is flat or concave in M. rhoadsi, and the parietal lamella 

 emerges further, approaching the edge of the parietal callus. In 

 M. pepita the face of the columella is convex and the parietal, lamella 

 does not emerge so far. 



This species is named for Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads, who made a 

 journey, not without difficulty and danger, down the Colorado River 

 below Yuma, returning along the bases of the arid mountains westward 

 to Calexico, California. 



Fig. 1. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



March 1. 

 Mr. Frank J. Keeley in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



John H. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the 

 physiognomy of North American vegetation. (No abstract.) 



March 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Spermatogenesis in Lepidoptera," 

 by Margaret Harris Cook, was reported by the Publication Committee. 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., made a communication on a 

 study of sexual selection as embodied in his observations on spiders. 

 (No abstract.) 



Thamnophis butleri again in Pennsylvania. — Mr. Henry W. Fowler 

 remarked that on July 3, 1907, he had secured an example of this species 

 at Warren, in Warren County. As it has not before been recorded from 

 this part of the State, this record may prove of interest, though specimens 

 have been secured as far east as Port Allegheny in McKean County, 

 as recorded by Stone, and later by Ruthven. Cope originally obtained 

 Pennsylvanian specimens near Franklin, in Venango County, and 

 described them as Eutamia brachystoma. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



CRATJEGUS IN PENNSYLVANIA. II. 

 BY C. S. SARGENT. 



Since the publication in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1905 

 of my paper on Crataegus in Eastern Pennsylvania a further systematic 

 study of the genus in other parts of the State has been made. The 

 results of these studies appear in the following paper. Additional 

 observations have also been made in Delaware. Chester and Monroe 

 Counties by Mr. B. H. Smith, in Bucks County by Dr. C. D. Fretz, 

 and in Berks County by Mr. C. L. Gruber. In Lackawanna County, 

 at Scranton and in its neighborhood, where the genus is largely repre- 

 sented in many distinct forms, important collections have been made 

 by Mr. A. Twining. The region surrounding Orbisonia, in Huntingdon 

 County, has been carefully explored by Mr. B. H. Smith, who has also 

 collected for several seasons near Bedford in Bedford County, near 

 Altoona in Blair County, and at Wilmore and Portage in Cambria 

 County. Prof. O. E. Jennings has placed at my disposal very large 

 collections accompanied by valuable notes made by him and his wife 

 near Pittsburg, in Allegheny County, and in Washington, Westmore- 

 land and Armstrong Counties. Without the assistance and careful 

 observations of all these collectors the publication of this paper would 

 have been impossible. 



To Mr. Smith I am under special obligations. He has been my 

 guide and companion during a number of journeys made during the 

 last five years through many of the Crataegus fields of the State; he 

 has enriched his specimens by the most carefully prepared notes and 

 with excellent sketches of the fruit of many species, and he has been 

 a constant and untiring adviser during the preparation of this paper, 

 which has occupied my attention for several years. 



The field is by no means exhausted; a large part of the State has 

 never been visited by careful observers of Crataegus, and in the regions 

 where the genus has been the most carefully examined, plants occur 

 which are still imperfectly known ; and before it is possible to prepare 

 a third paper on the Crataegus of the State, collections must be made 

 over large territories, and these collections, it is to be hoped, will not 

 be long delayed. 




1910.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 151 



Synopsis of Groups. 



A. — Nutlets without ventral cavities (Groups Crus-galli-Anomala?). 

 B. — Nutlets with longitudinal cavities on their ventral faces (Group 

 Tomentosae). 



Crus-galli. 



Leaves subcoriaceous or less commonly thin, obovate to oblong- 

 obovate, acuminate, acute, acuminate or rounded at the apex, 

 usually serrate only above the middle, without lobes except on 

 vigorous shoots, their veins usually thin and often within the 

 parenchyma; petioles short, usually eglandular; flowers in many- 

 flowered glabrous corymbs; fruit subglobose to short-oblong or 

 oval, mostly 1-1.4 cm. in diameter; flesh thin, usually green. 

 Anthers rose color or pink. 



Leaves subcoriaceous, their veins mostly within the parenchyma; 



stamens 10; anthers dark rose color 1. C. crus-galli. 



Leaves thin, their veins more or less prominent. 



Leaves usually rounded at the apex ; stamens usually 10 ; anthers 



pink; spines few 2. C. trahax. 



Leaves acuminate at the apex. 



Stamens 10 ; calyx-lobes long, slender, entire. 



Fruit short-oblong; anthers pale pink; branchlets and 



spines olive green 3. C. olivacea. 



Fruit narrow-oval; anthers rose color; branchlets and 



spines bright chestnut brown 4. C. accincta. 



Stamens 15; calyx-lobes short, glandular-dentate; anthers 

 only faintly tinged with pink; branchlets and spines 



light brown 5. C. phlebodia. 



Anthers white or pale yellow; stamens 10 or less. 



Leaves subcoriaceous, rounded or acute at the apex; fruit narrow 

 oblong-obovate to oval; spines dark purple, 2-3 cm. in length. 



6. C. eburnea. 



Leaves thin, acute or acuminate at the apex; fruit short-oblong 



to ovate; spines light reddish brown, 4-5 cm. in length. 



7. C. aliena. 

 1. Crataegus crus-galli Linnaus. 



Spec. 476 (1753); Sargent, Silva N. Am., IV, 91, t. 178; Man., 368, f. 286; 

 Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 379. 



Rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent (No. 302), September 30, 1905, May 25, 1908; B. H. Smith. 

 September 16, 1908; also from Canada to North Carolina. 



The number 302 from Bedford represents a number of large shrubs 

 with erect branches forming narrow irregular heads. This habit is 

 quite unlike that of the typical form of Crataegus crus-galli but in other 

 respects they are similar to that species as it grows in eastern Penn- 

 sylvania. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



2. Crataegus trahax Ashe. 



Jour. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc, XIX, pt. I, 27 (1903); Gruber, Proe. Berks 

 County Nat. Sci. Club, I, 21 (Crataegus in Berks County, II). 



Crataegus crus-galli Sargent, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 579 (in part) 

 (not Linnaeus). 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper side of the 

 midribs. Leaves oblong-obovate, rounded or rarely acute at the 

 broad apex, gradually narrowed to the cuneate base, and finely 

 serrate above the middle, with incurved glandular teeth ; nearly fully 

 grown when the flowers open from the 20th to the 27th of May and then 

 thin, yellow-green, sparingly villose along the upper side of the midribs, 

 with mostly persistent hairs and paler below, and at maturity thin, 

 dark yellow-green and very lustrous on the upper surface, pale yellow- 

 green on the lower surface, 4-5.5 cm. long and 2-2.5 cm. wide, with thin 

 midribs and slender more or less prominent primary veins; petioles 

 stout, slightly wing-margined nearly to the base, 6-7 mm. in length; 

 leaves on vigorous shoots usually acute or acuminate, coarsely serrate, 

 often 7-8 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thick midribs and promi- 

 nent primary veins. Flowers 1.3-1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in wide usually 10-15- but occasionally 30-flowered corymbs, 

 the much elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; 

 calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobas long, slender, acuminate, 

 entire or occasionally slightly glandular near the base, reflexed after 

 anthesis; stamens 5-15, usually 10; anthers pink; styles 1 or rarely 2. 

 Fruit ripening early in October and usually remaining until November 

 on the branches, on long slender drooping pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, subglobose to short-oblong, maroon or dark crimson, often 

 blotched with dark green at the apex, dull, slightly pruinose, 1-1.3 cm. 

 long and 8-13 mm. wide; calyx little enlarged, with a broad obconic 

 cavity, and erect and slightly incurved persistent lobes; flesh bitter, 

 greenish yellow; nutlet usually 1, narrowed and rounded at the apex, 

 broader and rounded at the base, slightly ridged, 6-7 mm. long and 

 4-5 mm. in diameter. 



A tree 4 or 5 m. high, with a short trunk 2-3 dm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark gray bark, numerous large horizontal ascending or drooping 

 branches forming a broad rounded head, and slender only slightly 

 zigzag branchlets light orange-brown and marked by large pale lenti- 

 cels when they first appear, becoming light reddish brown in their 

 first season and dull gray the following year, and unarmed or armed 

 with occasional stout spines 3-3.5 cm. long. 



Bluffs along Tulpehocken Creek, North Heidelberg Township, Berks 

 County; common; C. L. Gruber, (No. 105) May 27, August 2 and 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



September 16, 1905; (No. 45) May 29, August 1 and September 25, 

 1905, May 25 and 26, 1906. 



From Crataegus crus-galli Linnaeus this plant differs in its thinner 

 leaves with more prominent veins, in the pink, not dark rose-colored, 

 anthers and in the size and shape of the fruit. Mr. Gruber, who has 

 watched carefully during several seasons the trees of these two forms 

 growing near together, is convinced that Cratoegus trahax should be 

 specifically distinguished. A plant in an old hedge on Island Road, 

 West Philadelphia, B. H. Smith (No. 221), June 3, 1903, probably 

 belongs to this species. 



3. Crataegus olivacea n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of the 

 young leaves. Leaves oblong-obovate, acuminate at the ends or 

 sometimes acute at the apex, and sharply often doubly serrate above 

 the middle, with straight glandular teeth; about half-grown when the 

 flowers open late in May and then thin, dark yellow-green, smooth, 

 lustrous and glabrous above with the exception of occasional hairs 

 on the midribs, and pale and glabrous below, and at maturity thin 

 but firm in texture, dark green and lustrous on the upper surface, 

 light yellow-green on the lower surface, 5.5-7 cm. long and 3-3.5 

 cm. wide, with stout midribs and thin very prominent primary veins; 

 petioles stout, wing-margined often to the middle, glandular, with 

 minute often persistent glands 2-2.2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots thicker, more coarsely serrate, occasionally slightly lobed 

 toward the apex, 7-10 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide. Flowers on long 

 slender pedicels, in wide, lax, mostly 14-20-flowered, corymbs, with 

 linear glandular bracts and bractlets fading brown and generally 

 deciduous before the flowers open, the elongated lower peduncles from 

 the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, 

 slender, entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers pale pink; 

 styles 2. Fruit ripening the end of September, on long slender droop- 

 ing red pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong, full and rounded 

 at the ends or slightly narrowed at the base, dull red, marked by numerous 

 large dark dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a wide shallow cavity, and small spreading and appressed 

 lobes; flesh thin, green, dry and hard; nutlets 2, broad and rounded 

 at the apex, narrow and rounded at the base, ridged on the back with 

 a high broad grooved ridge 6-7 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A tree 7-9 m. high, with a tall trunk sometimes 3 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with dark fissured and scaly bark, large wide-spreading 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



branches forming a symmetrical round-topped head, and slender 

 nearly straight branchlets dark green more or less tinged with red and 

 marked by pale lenticels when the}' first 'appear, becoming dark olive 

 green in their first season and dull reddish brown the following year, 

 and armed with numerous slender straight olive green, ultimately dark 

 brown, spines 3-3.5 cm. long. 



Deep bottom lands, on the Little Juniata River, near Elizabeth 

 Furnace. East Altoona, Blair County, B. H. Smith, (No. 280 type) 

 May 22, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 27, 1905. 



Distinct in the olive green color of the branchlets and spines. 

 4. Crataegus aocincta n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves oblong-ovate, acute or acuminate or rarely 

 rounded and short-pointed at the apex, gradually narrowed to the 

 long slender entire base, and finely serrate above the middle, with 

 straight glandular teeth; about half-grown when the flowers open at 

 the end of May and then very thin, dull bluish green above and paler 

 below, and at maturity thin, dark green, 4.5-5 cm. long and 1.5-2 cm. 

 wide, with thin prominent midribs and thin primary veins; petiole- 

 slender, narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, often rose-color 

 in the autumn. 4-8 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots obovate, 

 acuminate and long-pointed at the apex, coarsely doubly serrate, and 

 often 6 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with stout broadly winged peti- 

 oles. Flowers 1-1.2 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in 

 broad, lax. 15-20-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axih 

 of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, 

 acuminate, entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 7-10, mostly 10; 

 anthers rose color: styles 1 or rarely 2. Fruit ripening in October, on 

 long slender pedicels, in drooping many-fruited clusters, narrow-oval, 

 scarlet, lustrous, marked by long pale lenticels, 1.2-1.4 cm. long 

 and 7-8 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a narrow 

 deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and spreading and appressed 

 persistent lobes; flesh thin, yellow, dry and mealy; nutlet, rounded 

 at the apex, gradually narrowed to the rounded base, slightly and 

 irregularly ridged, 8-9 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. in diameter, or when 

 2 gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, more prominently 

 ridged on the back and 3-4 mm. wide. 



A tree 7-8 m. high, with a trunk sometimes 2 dm. in diameter 

 covered with light gray scaly bark, spreading branches forming a 

 round-topped head, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets light orange- 

 green when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and 

 lustrous in their first season and dull red-brown the following year. 




1910.] XATRUAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



and armed with very numerous slender, straight or slightly curved 

 chestnut brown spines 2.5-5 cm. long. 



McKees Rocks, Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 24 type) September 28, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 

 24, 1906. 



5. Crataegus phlebodia n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves narrowly obovate, acuminate gradually con- 

 tracted to the long slender concave-cuneate base, and finely often 

 doubly serrate, with straight or incurved glandular teeth ; more than 

 half-grown when the flowers open late in May and then thin, yellow- 

 green, smooth and lustrous above, pale below, and at maturity thin, 

 dark yellow-green on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 

 3.5-5 cm. long and 2-2.2 cm. wide, with thin very prominent mid- 

 ribs and primary veins; petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined to 

 below the middle, 8-10 mm. in length. Flowers 1.8-2 cm. in diameter, 

 on long slender glabrous pedicels, in mostly 10-18-flowered corymbs, 

 the long lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube 

 narrowly obconic, the lobes short, slender, acuminate, minutely 

 glandular-dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 15-20; filaments persistent on the ripe fruit; anthers faintly tinged 

 with pink; styles 1-3. Fruit ripening the end of September, on 

 slender drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong, full 

 and rounded at the ends, dull scarlet, blotched with green at the apex, 

 marked by large pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and nearly as broad; calyx 

 little enlarged, with a narrow deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and 

 small spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh thin, yellow-green, dry 

 and hard; nutlets 1-3, full and rounded at the ends or sometimes 

 acute at the base, ridged on the back /with a high broad ridge, 7.5-8 mm. 

 long and 4-4.5 mm. wide, or, when 1, 5-5.5 mm. in diameter. 



A tree sometimes 5-6 m. high, with a trunk 2.5-3 dm. in diameter 

 covered w r ith pale scaly bark, large erect and spreading branches 

 forming an oblong round-topped head, and slender onry slightly 

 zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when 

 they first appear, becoming light orange-brown in their first season 

 and pale gray-brown the following year, and armed with many slender 

 straight or slightly curved light brown spines 4-5 cm. long, and very 

 numerous and compound on old stems and branches. 



Border of oak woods, near Bedford Springs, Bedford County, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 295 type) September 30, 1905; B. H. 

 Smith, May IS. 1906; Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith. 

 (No. 316) May 20. 1906. October, 1907. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The flowers of number 295, from Orbisonia, have usually only 6-10 

 stamens. In other respects the two plants appear to be very much alike. 



6. Crataegus eburnea Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. Ill, 393 (1902). 



Glabrous. Leaves oblong-obovate, rounded or acute at the apex, 

 gradually narrowed to the concave-cuneate entire base, and finely 

 often doubly serrate above, with straight or incurved glandular teeth ; 

 about half-grown when the flowers open in the first week of June and 

 then thin, dark yellow-green, smooth and lustrous above and paler 

 below, and at maturity subcoriaceous, dark yellow-green and very 

 lustrous on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 4.5-5 cm. 

 long, 2.5-3 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined nearly to the ba>e, 

 occasionally glandular early in the season, with deciduous glands, 

 6-8 mm. in length. Flowers about 1.4 cm. in diameter, on slender 

 pedicels in broad many-flowered corymbs, the long lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire, reflexed after anthesis ; 

 stamens 8-10; anthers white; styles 1 or 2. Fruit ripening in 

 October, on long drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, oblong- 

 obovate to oval, narrowed and rounded at the apex, more gradually 

 narrowed and pointed at the base, dark red, 1.3-1.4 cm. long and 9-10 

 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity 

 pointed in the bottom, and slender reflexed persistent lobes; flesh thin, 

 yellow-green, diy and hard; nutlets 1 or 2, obtuse at the apex, slightly 

 narrowed at the base, ridged on the back, with a low narrow ridge, 

 7-8 mm. long and about 3 mm. wide, or when 1 about 1.5 mm. in 

 diameter. 



A tree sometimes 7-8 m. high, with a short trunk 2-2.5 dm. in 

 diameter covered with light gray bark broken into rectangular scales, 

 stout wide-spreading branches forming a broad round-topped head, and 

 slender straight or slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and 

 marked by small pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark 

 purple and lustrous in their first season and dark brown the following 

 year, and armed with slender straight or slightly curved purple spines 

 2-3 cm. long, and occasionally persistent and becoming much elon- 

 gated and branched on old stems. 



Darlington Hollow, Sharpsburg, Allegheny County, J. A. Shafer, 

 (No. 22, the type tree) June 8 and October, 1901, May 28, 1902, O. E. 

 Jennings, (No. 98) June 16. 1908. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



This is one of the largest and most abundant species in the neighbor- 

 hood of Pittsburg. 

 7. Crataegus aliena n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves. 

 Leaves oblong-obovate, acute or acuminate, gradually narrowed to the 

 concave-cuneate entire base, and sharply often doubly serrate usually 

 only above the middle, with straight glandular teeth; nearly half- 

 grown when the flowers open from the middle to the 20th of May and 

 then thin, dull yellow-green, smooth and glabrous above with the 

 exception of a few hairs on the upper side of the midribs and paler 

 below, and at maturity thin but firm in texture, dark green and very 

 lustrous on the upper surface, pale yellow-green on the lower surface, 

 4-5 am. long and 2-2.5 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and 

 primary veins; petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined nearly to the 

 base, occasionally glandular early in the season, rose color in the 

 autumn, 7-8 mm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots subcoriaceous, 

 abruptly long-pointed at the apex, more coarsely serrate, occasionally 

 slightly lobed, often 5-6 cm. long and 4-5 cm. wide. Flowers 1.2-1.4 

 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in broad mostly 12-15- 

 flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of 

 upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender 

 acuminate, entire or minutely dentate, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 10; anthers light cream color; styles 1 or 2, usually 2. Fruit ripening 

 early in October, on long drooping red pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 short-oblong to slightly obovate, crimson, lustrous, marked by large 

 pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and 9-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a narrow deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and small 

 spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh thin and hard; nutlets 1 or 2, 

 gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, 

 with a high broad slightly grooved ridge, 7.5-S mm. long and 4-4.4 mm. 

 wide, or when 1, 6-6.5 mm. in diameter. 



A tree 5 or 6 m. high, with a tall trunk 1.5-2 dm. in diameter and 

 covered with dark scaly bark, small spreading branches forming a 

 wide round-topped symmetrical head, and stout only slightly zigzag 

 branchlets light orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming light reddish brown in their first season and 

 gray tinged with red the following year, and armed with numerous 

 stout nearly straight light red-brown spines 4-5 cm. long. 



Hillsides, valley of Blacklog Creek, near Orbisonia, Huntingdon 

 County, B. H. Smith, (No. 309, type) May 19 and October 9, 1906, 

 October 8, 1907. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



2. Punctata. 



Leaves thin to subcoriaceous, obovate-cuneate, usually more or less 

 lobed above the middle; petioles short; anthers rose-colored or 

 pink (sometimes pale yellow in one variety of No. 1); fruit sub- 

 globose to ellipsoidal or oval, usually more or less flattened at the 

 ends, punctate, up to 3 cm. in diameter; flesh dry and mealy; 

 nutlets 2-5, prominently ridged on the back. 

 Stamens usually 20. 

 Anthers rose color or yellow; leaves, corymbs and calyx more or 



less densly villose 1. C. punctata. 



Anthers pink; calyx glabrous. 



Leaves oblong-obovate; pedicels glabrous 2. C. calvescens. 



Leaves broad-obovate to orbicular-obovate or elliptical ; 



pedicels slightly villose 3. C. recedens. 



Stamens 8-14; anthers pink; leaves oblong-obovate, only slightly 

 lobed. 

 Flowers on stout slightly villose pedicels, in 7- or 8-flowered 

 corymbs ; anthers pale pink ; fruit subglobose to short-oblong. 



4. C. porrecta. 



Flowers on slender glabrous pedicels, in 14-20-flowered corymbs; 



anthers light rose pink; fruit ellipsoidal to oval. .5. C. prccstans. 



1. Crataegus punctata Jacquin. 



Hort. Vind., I, 10, t. 28 (1770); Sargent, Silva N. Am., IV, 103, t. 184; 



Man., 389, f. 308; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 583; Gruber, Bull. 



Torrey Bot. Club, XXXII, 389. 

 Crat<rgns punctata mutabilis Gruber, Bull. Torrev Bot. Club, XXXII, 



390 (1905). 



Crataegus Moselemensis Gruber, Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXXII, 391 (1905). 

 Crataegus Moselemensis corrugata Gruber, Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXII, 



391 (1905). 



Cratcegus Triosteum Gruber, Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XXXII, 392 (1905). 



Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith (No. 307), May 19, 1906; 

 Valley of the Conemaugh between Portage and Wilmore, Cambria 

 County, B. H. Smith, (No. 272, with small green fruit) May 21, 1905, 

 B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 26, 1905; valley of the 

 Little Juniata River below Altoona, Blair County, B. H. Smith, 

 (Nos. 259 and 261) May 20, 1905; near Carnot, back of Stoops' Ferry, 

 Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings and B. H. Smith, (No. 89) October 

 6, 1907; near Linesville, Crawford Vounty, O. E. Jennings, (Nos. 80 

 and 81) June 12 and October 9, 1907, (No. 90) October 9, 1907, May 28, 

 1908; Lincoln Heights, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (Nos. 7 and 8) June 8, 1907; Campbell's Ledge, Luzerne County, 

 A. Twining, May 30, 1907. > 



Crataegus punctata is one of the most generally and widely dis- 

 tributed species of northeastern North America. It varies greatly 

 in the size of the leaves, the amount of pubescence on the leaves, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



corymbs and young branches, and in the size and color of the fruit, 

 which varies from dark red to light yellow and green. The most 

 distinct of these varieties has vellow anthers and vellow fruit often 

 with a reddish cheek. This has sometimes been considered a 

 species, but individuals occur on which flowers with rose-colored and 

 with yellow anthers, and with red and yellow fruits, may occasionally 

 be found. The yellow fruited form is 

 Crataegus punctata var. aurea Aiton, Hort. Kew., II, 170 (1789). 



Crataegus crocata Ashe, Ann. Carnegie Mus. I, pt. 3, 389 (1902); Gruber, 

 Berks County Nat. Sci. Club, II, 21 (Crataegus in B^rks County); Bull. 

 Torrev Bot. Club, XXXII, 390. 



Crataegus cydonia Gruber, Bull. Torrev Bot. Club, XXXII, 390 (1905). 



O'Hara Township, Allegheny County, J. A. Shafer, (No. 25) May 

 20 and October 10, 1902; W. Scott Farm, Moon Township west of 

 Carnot, Allegheny County, J. A. Shafer, June 3 and October 26, 1902; 

 Wildwood Park, Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings, (No. 92) October 

 14, 1907; not rare in the eastern part of the State, and most abundant 

 in the region adjacent to Lakes Ontario and Erie. 



A form densely hoary-tomentose on the under surface of the leaves 

 and on the corymbs is 



Crataegus punctata var. canescens Britton. 



Bull. Torrey Bot. Club, XX, C31 (1S9J); Sargent, Man., 389; Proe. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phiia., 190 S, 583. 



In Pennsylvania this form has been noticed only in Durham, Bucks 

 County, and near Stroudsburg, in Monroe County. 



A form with remarkably small leaves, flowers and fruits may be 

 called 



Crataegus punctata var. microphylla n. var. 



Leaves obovate, acute, prominently veined, 2-2.5 cm. long and 

 1-1.2 cm. wide. Flowers in compact few-flowered corymbs, 1-1.4, 

 mostly 1.2 cm. in diameter; stamens 18-20; anthers rose color. Fruit 

 on short pedicels, depressed-globose, dark red, 8-10 mm. long and 

 10-12 mm. wide. 



In a moist pasture, Linesville,, Crawford County, O. E. Jennings, 

 (No. 83 type) June 12 and October 9, 1907. 

 2. Crataegus calvescens n. sp. 



•Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper side of the 

 young leaves and petioles and on the calyx-lobes. Leaves oblong- 

 obovate, acute, broad and rounded or acuminate and usually abruptly 

 short-pointed at the apex, gradually narrowed to the concave-cuneate 

 entire base, and coarsely often doubly serrate above the middle, with 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



straight glandular teeth; half-grown when the flowers open early in 

 June and then thin, yellow-green, smooth, lustrous and slightly 

 hairy on the midribs above and paler below, and at maturity thin but 

 firm in texture, glabrous, dark yellow-green on the upper surface, 

 paler on the lower surface, 4-6 cm. long and 2.5-3 cm. wide, with 

 thin prominent midribs, and slender conspicuous veins extending very 

 obliquely toward the apex of the leaf; petioles stout, narrowly wing- 

 margined to below the middle, sparingly villose on the upper side 

 while young, soon becoming glabrous, 1-1.5 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots abruptly pointed and acuminate at the apex, more 

 coarsely serrate, usually slightly and irregularly lobed and often 

 6-7 cm. long and 4.5-5 cm. wide. Flowers 2-2.2 cm. in diameter, 

 on long stout pedicels, in broad lax mostly 10-18-, usually 12-15- 

 flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of 

 upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, 

 acuminate, irregularly glandular-serrate near the middle, glabrous 

 on the outer surface, slightly villose on the inner surface, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 12-20, usually 20; anthers pink; styles 2-4, 

 usually 3. Fruit ripening early in October, on long drooping pedicels, 

 in lax 2-7-flowered corymbs, subglobose, truncate at the apex, rounded 

 at the base, dark red, marked by large dark dots, more or less pruinose, 

 becoming lustrous, 1.5 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with 

 a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading and appressed usually 

 persistent lobes; flesh yellow-green, hard and bitter; nutlets usually 3, 

 slightly narrowed and rounded at the ends, usually ridged on the back, 

 with a high narrow ridge, 8-9 mm. long and 5-5.5 mm. wide. 



A tree 6-7 m. high, with a tall trunk covered with gray scaly bark, 

 and often 2.5 dm. in diameter, large wide-spreading branches forming 

 a round-topped symmetrical head, and stout nearly straight branch- 

 lets, pale orange-green when they first appear, becoming light orange- 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dark gray-brown the 

 following year, and armed with numerous stout nearly straight purple 

 ultimately dark brown spines 3.5-5 cm. long. 



Stony ridges and slopes; common*; Riverview Park, Allegheny, 

 Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 29 type) 

 October 2, 1905, May 24, 1906, O. E. Jennings, June 8 and October 14, 

 1907, (No. 66) O. E. Jennings, October 8, 1906, June 2, 1907, (No. 26) 

 O. E. Jennings, October 14, 1907, (No. 27) O. E. Jennings, October 14, 

 1907; Nine-mile Run, near Pittsburg, Allegheny County, O. E. Jen- 

 nings, (No. 39) October 9, 1905 (No. 44) October 10, 1909, O. E. 

 Jennings and B. H. Smith, (No. 88) October 5, 1907; Idlepark. West- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



moreland County, (No. 86) O. E. Jennings, September 21, 1907; 

 rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 (No. 301) September 30, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 18, 1906. 



The leaves of the Bedford County plant are usually acuminate, or 

 they are acute and do not show on the specimens collected by Mr. 

 Smith any tendency to become broad and rounded at the apex — a 

 form which is not uncommon on trees in the neighborhood of Pittsburg. 

 The young leaves of the Bedford County plants are slightly more hairy 

 along the upper side of the midribs, and the spines are rather lighter 

 colored. Otherwise they appear identical with the type of the species. 



3. Crataegus recedens n. sp. 



Leaves broad obovate to orbicular-obovate or rarely elliptical, 

 acute or acuminate and often abruptly pointed at the apex, gradually 

 narrowed to the cuneate or rarely rounded entire often unsymmetrical 

 base, sharply doubly serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, and 

 slightly divided above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of slender acuminate 

 spreading lobes ; more than half grown when the flowers open about 

 the 20th of May and then thin, yellow-green, roughened above by 

 numerous white hairs and sparingly villose on the midribs and veins 

 below, and at maturity thin, dull deep yellow-green, smooth and 

 glabrous or occasionally scabrate above and pale and still slightly 

 villose below on the thin prominent midribs and 6 or 7 pairs of thin 

 primary veins extending obliquely toward the apex of the leaf, 4.5- 

 5.5 cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide; petioles slender, wing-margined 

 at the apex, villose early in the season, becoming nearly glabrous, 

 1.5-3 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots more coarsely serrate 

 and more deeply lobed and often 7-8 cm. long and broad. Flowers 

 1.8-2.2 cm. in diameter, on long stout slightly hairy pedicels, in broad 

 5-15-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube broadly obconic, glabrous, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from wide bases, long, acuminate, minutely glandular- 

 serrate below the middle or entire, glabrous on the outer, sparingly 

 villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 18-20; 

 anthers pink ; styles 3-5. Fruit ripening early in October, on slender 

 glabrous or slightly hairy erect or spreading pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, nearly globose, sometimes slightly tapering toward the 

 base, dark red more or less blotched with green or russet green, hardly 

 punctate, glabrous or rarely puberulous, 1.1-1.5 cm. in diameter; 

 calyx prominent, with a long tube, a wide deep cup-shaped cavity, 

 and elongated reflexed persistent lobes hairy on the upper surface; 

 li 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



flesh yellowish green, firm and bitter; nutlets 3-5, rounded at the 

 broad base, narrow and, when 5, acute at the apex, rounded and ridged 

 on the back, with a broad grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. 

 wide. 



A tree 6-7 m. high, with a short trunk sometimes 1.6 dm. in diameter 

 and covered with gray scaly bark, long slender horizontal or drooping 

 branches, stout nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green, slightly 

 pubescent and marked by small pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light orange-brown in their first season and dull reddish brown 

 and glabrous the following year, and armed with numerous slender 

 nearly straight chestnut brown shining spines 3-5 cm. long, persistent 

 and becoming compound and sometimes 10 cm. in length on old stems 

 and branches. 



Borders of woods at Indian Dale, near Kutztown, Berks County, 

 C. L. Gruber, (No. 227 type) August 4 and October 2, 1905, May 10 

 and 22, 1906. 



Very distinct from C. punctata Jacquin in the shape of the thin nearly 

 glabrous leaves with much more slender veins, in the glabrous calyx- 

 tube and only slightly hairy corymbs, and in its smaller globose hardly 

 punctate fruit which is rounded and not truncate at the ends. 



4. Crataegus porrecta Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. Ill, 391 (1903). 



Leaves oblong-obovate, acute or acuminate and often abruptly 

 pointed at the apex, gradually narrowed to the long concave-cuneate 

 entire base, coarsely doubly serrate usually only above the middle, 

 with large straight glandular teeth, and often slightly divided toward 

 the apex into 4 or 5 pairs of narrow acuminate lobes; nearly fullv 

 grown when the flowers open early in May and then dark 

 yellow-green, smooth, lustrous and glabrous with the exception of a 

 few hairs on the midribs above, and paler and sparingly villose on 

 the midribs below, and at maturity thin but firm in texture, dark 

 yellow-green on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 6-S 

 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thick midribs and thin prominent 

 primary veins; petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined nearly to the 

 base, slightly hairy on the upper side while young, soon becoming- 

 glabrous, occasionally glandular, 1-1.5 cm. in length. Floicers 1.5- 

 1.7 cm. in diameter, on long stout slightly villose pedicels, in small 

 compact mostly 7- or 8-flowered corymbs, the much elongated lower 

 peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 slightly villose, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire or occa- 

 sionally minutely dentate near the middle, glabrous, reflexed after 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



anthesis; stamens 8-14; anthers pale pink; styles 2 or 3. Fruit on 

 long drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to short- 

 oblong, flattened at the ends, russet-green to dark purplish red, 

 pruinose, becoming lustrous, 1.1-1.4 cm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading often decidu- 

 ous lobes; flesh thin, light yellow-green, hard and bitter; nutlets 2 or 

 3, obtuse at the ends, irregularly grooved, often pentagonal, 9-10 mm. 

 long and 5-6 mm. wide. 



A tree sometimes 5 m. high, with a trunk 2-2.5 dm. in diameter and 

 covered with dark gray bark separating in large flakes, large wide- 

 spreading horizontal branches forming a flat-topped head, and stout 

 nearly straight glabrous branchlets, light orange-green more or less 

 tinged with red when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut-brown 

 and lustrous in their first season and darker-colored the following 

 year, and armed with numerous slender straight chestnut brown spines 

 3.5-5 cm. long, persistent, abundant and often 1.5 dm. long on old 

 stems. 



Ravines, Schenley Park, Allegheny County, J. A. Shafer, (No. 7 

 type) May and October, 1902, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. 8. 

 Sargent, (No. 7) September 28, 1905, O. E. Jennings, October 18, 1907, 

 June 10, 1908; common on dry hills in the neighborhood of Pittsburg. 

 5. Crataegus praestans n sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves slightly obovate, acute and sometimes pointed 

 at the apex, gradually narrowed to the long slender entire base and 

 finely often doubly serrate above the middle, with straight glandular 

 teeth; more than half grown when the flowers open at the end of May 

 and then thin, dark yellow-green and lustrous above and paler below, 

 and at maturity thin, dark green, 5-6 cm. long and 2-2.5 cm. wide, 

 with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, narrowly 

 wing-margined to below the middle, 2-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots coarsely serrate, occasionally slightly lobed above 

 the middle, often 7-8 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide. Flowers 1.2- 

 1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in wide lax 12-20-flowered 

 corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire, 

 reflexed after anthasis; stamens 11-14; anthers light rose pink: >tyles 

 2 or 3. Fruit ripening late in September, on long slender pedicels, 

 in drooping few-fruited clusters, short-oblong to oval, obtuse at the 

 apex, the rounded base often decurrent on the petiole, dark red, 

 slightly pruinose, marked by minute dark dots; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a short tube, a narrow deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



reflexed closely appressed lobes; flesh thin, yellow-green, hard, juicy, 

 bitter and acidulous; nutlets, usually 2, acute at the apex, obtuse and 

 rounded at the base, ridged on the back, with a broad slightly grooved 

 ridge, 10-11 mm. long and 5-6 mm. wide. 



A tree 4-5 m. high, with a short trunk 1-1.5 dm. in diameter covered 

 with dark scaly bark, small spreading branches forming an open 

 irregular head, and stout only slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange- 

 green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming 

 dark chestnut brown to bronze green and lustrous in their first season, 

 and dark gray-brown the following year, and armed with stout straight 

 or slightly curved chestnut brown spines 3.5-4 cm. long. 



Nine Mile Run, near Pittsburg, Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings, 

 (No. 7S type) May 27, 1907, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, September 

 13, 1909. 



3. Pruinos.e. 



Leaves thick, generally broad at the base; petioles long, usually 

 slender; flowers large, in glabrous or hairy corymbs; stamens 

 5-20 ; anthers rose color or white. Fruit short-oblong, ovate or 

 obovate, often broader than high, frequently conspicuously angled, 

 green or red, generally pruinose, ripening late; flesh dry and hard, 

 the mature calyx prominent, raised on a short tube; nutlets 3-5. 

 Anthers rose color or pink. 

 Stamens 20. 



Leaves smooth on the upper surface. 

 Leaves blue-green. 

 Fruit not mammillate. 



Leaves rounded or abruptly cuneate at the base. 



Leaves ovate to oblong-ovate; fruit depressed-ovate, 

 conspicuously 5-angled; flesh tinged with red. 



1. C. angulata. 

 Leaves oblong-ovate; fruit obovate, not conspicuously 



angled 2. C. viatica. 



Leaves concave-cuneate at the base; fruit subglobose 



to short-oblong, 5-angled 3. C. wilmorensis. 



Fruit mamillate below the middle, conspicuously 5-angled. 



4. C. arcana. 

 Leaves yellow-green. 



Flowers in 8-12-flowered corymbs ; fruit oval to pyriform- 



oval 5. C. crawfordiana . 



Flowers in 4-7-flowered corymbs. 



Anthers pink; fruit obovate, deep orange-red. 



6. C. gaud ens. 

 Anthers dark rose color; fruit short-oblong, green. 



7. C. bellahda. 

 Leaves scabrate on the upper surface. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Leaves yellow-green, oblong-ovate; fruit depressed-globose, 



not pentagonal 8. C. amplified. 



Leaves blue-green, ovate; fruit subglobose to ovoid-globose, 



pentagonal 9. C. denudaia. 



Stamens 15-20. 

 Leaves smooth. 

 Fruit obovate. 



Flowers not more than 1.8 cm. in diameter; fruit on long 



drooping pedicels 10. C. leiophylla. 



Flowers more than 2 cm. in diameter; fruit on erect or 



spreading pedicels 11. C. dunmorensis. 



Fruit subglobose to slightly obovate, on slender drooping 



pedicels 12. C. advena. 



Leaves scabrate on the upper surface; fruit short-oblong, on 



erect or spreading pedicels 13. C. torta. 



Stamens 10 or less. 



Mature leaves glabrous. 

 Fruit subglobose. 

 Leaves blue-green. 



Leaves oblong-ovate; rounded or rarely abruptly cuneate 

 at the base; fruit on short stout pedicels, green 



flushed with dark red, not pruinose 14. C. rclicta. 



Leaves ovate, concave-cuneate or rarely rounded at the 

 base; fruit on long slender pedicels, purple-red, 



pruinose... 15. C. crubescens. 



Leaves yellow-green, oblong-ovate, very deeply lobed. 



16. C. divisifolia. 

 Mature leaves more or less scabrate above, broadly ovate, thin, 



yellow-green ; fruit green, becoming red 17. C. cdurescens. 



Anthers pale yellow or white; stamens 20. 

 Mature leaves glabrous. 

 Leaves broad at the base. 



Leaves rounded or truncate at the base. 



Leaves thin; flowers less than 2 cm. in diameter; branchlets 

 only slightly zigzag; spines few, short and stout. 



18. C. latifrons. 

 Leaves thick; flowers 2 cm. or more in diameter; branchlets 



very zigzag; spines numerous, long and slender. 



19. C. tribulosa. 

 Leaves abruptly cuneate or rounded at the base. 



Fruit subglobose. 



Leaves ovate to oval, blue-green; fruit not more than 

 1 cm. in diameter, on slender drooping pedicels. 



20. C. incompta. 

 Leaves broadly ovate, yellow-green; fruit up to 1.3 

 cm. in diameter, on short stout erect pedicels. 



21. C. Shaferi. 

 Fruit short-oblong to slightly obovate; leaves only 3-4 

 cm. long; branchlets very slender, contorted. 



22. C. bedfordensis. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Fruit obovate; leaves more than 5 cm. long, branchlets 



stouter, not contorted 23. C. conjuncta. 



Leaves narrowed at the base; fruit subglobose to slightly 



obovate 24. C. duracina. 



Mature leaves scabrate; fruit obovate 25. C. leeta. 



1. Crataegus angulata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the upper surface of 

 the young leaves. Leaves ovate to oblong-ovate, acuminate, rounded 

 or abruptly cuneate at the base, finally often doubly serrate, with 

 straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of 

 small acuminate lateral lobes ; more than half grown when the flowers 

 open at the end of May and then thin, light yellow-green, slightly 

 hairy above especially along the midribs and veins and rather paler 

 below, and at maturity thin, dark blue-green, smooth and lustrous on 

 the upper surface, pale bluish green on the lower surface, 4.5-6 cm. 

 long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles 

 slender, occasionally glandular, with small mostly deciduous glands, 

 2-2.5 cm. in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, usually rounded 

 or truncate at the broad base, more coarsely serrate, deeply lobed and 

 often 6-7 cm. long and wide. Flowers 2.6 cm. in diameter, on long- 

 slender pedicels, in compact mostly 5-8-flowered corymbs, the lower 

 peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, slender, acuminate, 

 finely glandular-serrate near the middle or almost entire, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 18-20; anthers rose color; styles 4 or 5. Fruit 

 ripening at the end of October, on slender pedicels, in pendant usually 

 3-5-fruited clusters, depressed-ovate, conspicuously pentagonal, flat- 

 tened at the apex, obtusely tapering at the base, light greenish yellow, 

 finally dark purplish red at least on one cheek, marked by large dark 

 dots, pruinose, becoming lustrous, 1-1.2 cm. long and 1.5-1.6 cm. wide; 

 calyx little enlarged, with a very short tube, a wide shallow cavity, 

 and small spreading lobes; flesh firm, dry and meal}', yellow slightly 

 tinged with red, acidulous; nutlets 4 or 5, acute at the ends, rounded 

 and slightly ridged or generally grooved on the back, 7-8 mm. long 

 and 4.5-5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 4-5 m. high, with stems sometimes 1 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with dark gray scaly bark, and slender only slightly zigzag 

 branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown and lustrous in their 

 first season and darker-colored the following } r ear, and armed with 

 stout straight or slightly curved purplish shining spines 2.5-3 cm. 

 long and persistent and becoming compound on old stems and branches. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Nine Mile Run, near Pittsburg, Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings 

 and Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 43 type) October 10, 1905, May 25, 1906, 

 May 28 and October 30, 1907, O. E. Jennings and B. H. Smith, October 

 5, 1907; Panther Hollow, Schenley Park, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 

 O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, (No. 69) May 17, 1907, O. E. Jennings 

 and B. H. Smith, October 5, 1907, O. E. Jennings, (No. 71) May 19, 

 1909; Nine Mile Run, Pittsburg, O. E. Jennings, (No. 41, with a 

 rather more shallow calyx cavity of the fruit) October 7, 1905, May 25, 

 1906, May 28 and October 5, 1907; Kit-tanning, Armstrong County, 

 O. E. Jennings, (No. 47) October 14, 1905, May 28, 1906, May 26 and 

 October 7, 1907. 



2. Crataegus viatica Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. 3, 398 (1902). 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of 

 the young leaves. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, rounded or 

 cuneate at the base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and sometimes divided into short broad lateral lobes ; 

 about one-third grown when the flowers open at the end of May and 

 then very thin, light yellow-green and slightly hairy along the mid- 

 ribs above and pale below, and at maturity thin but firm in texture, 

 dark bluish green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, paler 

 on the lower surface, 5-5.5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with promi- 

 nent midribs and thin primary veins; petioles slender, occasionally 

 glandular, with deciduous glands, 2.5-3 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots thicker, rounded or truncate at the broad base, more 

 coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed, and often 6-7 cm. long and 

 broad, with stout midribs, prominent primary veins and stout winged 

 glandular petioles. Flowers 2.5-3 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in compact usually 5-9-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, slender, acuminate, 

 entire or occasionally dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis ; 

 stamens 18-20; anthers light rose-pink; styles 4 or 5, surrounded 

 at the base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening in 

 October, on stout spreading or drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters 

 short-pyriform, rounded at the apex, truncate at the base, yellowish 

 green, punctate, pruinose, becoming lustrous, 1.1-1.2 cm. long, 9-10 

 mm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a broad deep 

 cavity pointed in the bottom, and spreading and reflexed persistent 

 lobes; flesh yellow-green, acid, dry and mealy; nutlets 4 or 5, usually 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



5, rounded at the apex, sometimes narrowed at the base, slightly 

 ridged on the back, about 5 mm. long and 3-3.5 mm. wide. 



A tree 3-4 m. high, with a trunk 1.7-2 dm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark scaly bark, long yellowish green smooth branches wide- 

 spreading below, ascending near the top of the tree, and forming a 

 round-topped head, and stout only slightly zigzag branchlets, dark 

 orange-green when they first appear, becoming dull orange-brown and 

 marked by dull lenticels in their first season and dark red-brown the 

 following year, and armed with numerous stout curved and reflexed 

 purple shining spines 4.5-5 cm. long and occasionally persistent and 

 branched on old stems. 



Forbes and Woodlawn Streets, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, O. E. 

 Jennings, (No. 96 type tree = J. A. Shafer, No. 5) June 10 and October 

 3,1908, May 9, 1909; Schenley Park, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 

 O. E. Jennings, (No. 55) May 29, 1907, O. E. Jennings and B. H. 

 •Smith, October 5, 1907. 

 3. Crataegus wilmorensis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the young leaves 

 and petioles. Leaves ovate to oval, acuminate, concave-cuneate at 

 the often unsymmetrical entire base, sharply often doubly serrate 

 above, with straight glandular teeth, and usually slightly divided 

 into 3 or 4 pairs of small acuminate spreading lobes; nearly fully 

 grown when the flowers open at the end of May and then very thin, 

 light yellow-green, lustrous and slightly hairy on the midribs above 

 and pale and glabrous below, and at maturity thin, dark bluish green 

 on the upper surface, light bluish green on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. 

 long and 3-4 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins ; petioles 

 slender, sparingly hairy on the upper side while young, soon glabrous, 

 1.5-2.5 cm. in length. Flowers on slender pedicels, in compact mostly 

 7-9-flowered corymbs, with linear-obovate to linear finely glandular- 

 serrate bracts and bractlets often persistent until the flowers open, the 

 long lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire or minutely glandular- 

 dentate, reflexed after anthesis ; stamens 20 ; anthers rose-color (in the 

 bud) ; styles 5. Fruit ripening early in October, on short stout spreading 

 pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to short-oblong, full and 

 rounded at the ends, green becoming reddish at maturity, about 1.2 

 cm. in diameter ; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, and reflexed 

 and appressed persistent lobes dark red on the upper side; flesh thin, 

 green and hard; nutlets 5, gradually narrowed and acute or rounded 

 at the ends, often rather broader at the base than at the apex, ridged 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



on the back, with a broad high deeply grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long 

 and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub sometimes 4 m. high, with stems 1.5 dm. in diameter, 

 spreading into large thickets, and slender nearly straight branchlets, 

 dark orange-green more or less tinged with red when they first appear, 

 dark chestnut brown, lustrous and marked by dark lenticels in their 

 first season and darker-colored the following year, and armed with 

 slender straight or slightly curved purple shining spines 2-4 cm. long. 



Low ground, valley of the Conemaugh River between Portage and 

 Wilmore, Cambria County, B. H. Smith, (275 type) May 21, 1905, 



B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 27, 1905. 



4. Crataegus arcana Beadle. 



Bilt. Bot. Studies, I, 122 (1902); Small, Fl. S. E. States, 564; Sargent, 

 t Bot. Gazette, XXXV, 101 (The Genus Crataegus in Newcastle County, 



Delaware); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 588; Bull. CXXII, N. Y. 



State Mus., 37. 



Dry hillsides, valley of the Little Juniata River below Altoona, 

 Blair County, B. H. Smith, (No. 282) May 22, 1905, B. H. Smith and 



C. S. Sargent, September 27, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 17, 1906; also 

 western New York to eastern Pennsylvania, Delaware and western 

 North Carolina. 



•5. Crataegus crawfordiana n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly cimeate or rounded 

 at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, 

 and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small spreading acuminate 

 lateral lobes; nearly fully grown when the flowers open in the first 

 week of June and then very thin, dark yellow-green above and pale 

 below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on 

 the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 4.5-5 cm. long and 3.5-4 

 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and veins; petioles slender, 

 glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length. 

 Flowers 1.3-1.9 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in wide lax 

 mostly 8-12-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of 

 upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes short, slender, 

 finely glannular-serrate toward the acuminate apex, reflexed after 

 anthesis; stamens usually 20; anthers pink; styles 3 or 4. Fruit 

 ripening early in October, on stout pedicels, in few-fruited drooping 

 clusters, oval to pyriform-oval, rounded at the apex, gradually rounded 

 at the base, dark orange-red blotched with yellow-green, marked by 

 large pale dots, somewhat pruinose, 1.2-1.3 cm. long and 1-1.2 cm. 

 in diameter; calyx prominent, with a distinct tube, a deep narrow 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



cavity pointed and tomentose in the bottom, and small reflexed often 

 deciduous lobes; flesh thin, very light yellow; nutlets 3 or 4, acute at 

 the ends, ridged on the back, with a low narrow ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long 

 and 4.5-5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 4-5 m. high, with stems sometimes 1 dm. in diameter 

 and covered with pale gray bark broken into small closely appressed 

 scales, and slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green and 

 marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming bright 

 chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and dark red-brown 

 the following year, and armed with numerous slender nearly straight 

 chestnut brown ultimately dark gray spines 3-4 cm. long and persis- 

 tent and branched on old stems. 



Linesville, Crawford County, 0. E. Jennings, (No. 84 type) June 

 12 and October 9. 1907. 



Well distinguished from the other species in this group by its narrow 

 oval or pyriform-oval fruits. 

 6. Crataegus gaudens a. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 petioles. Leaves ovate to oval, acuminate, acutely or obtusely 

 concave-cuneate at the base, finely doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and divided into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad acute 

 lateral lobes; not more than one-third grown when the flowers open 

 late in May and then thin, dark yellow-green and slightly hairy along 

 the midribs above and paler and sparingly villose on the midribs 

 below, and at maturity thin, dark green and lustrous on the upper 

 surface, pale on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, 

 with thin prominent midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, 

 slightly wing-margined at the apex, sparingly hairy on the upper 

 side while young, soon glabrous, glandular, with minute usually per- 

 sistent glands, 2.5-3 cm. in length. Flowers 2 cm. in diameter, on 

 long slender pedicels, in narrow mostly 6- or 7-flowered corymbs, the 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, broad, 

 acuminate, entire, or minutely glandular-dentate above the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 18-20; anthers pink; styles 3-5. 

 Fruit ripening the middle of October, on long slender pedicels, in few- 

 fruited clusters, pyriform, truncate or rounded at the apex, gradually 

 narrowed to the long slender base often extending down one side of 

 the pedicel, 5-angled, deep orange-red, marked by large pale dots, 

 pruinose, 1.3-1.6 cm. long and 1.1-1.4 cm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a short tube, a wide deep cavity pointed and tomentose 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



in the bottom, and small spreading and reflexed lobes; flesh thick, 

 succulent, light yellow tinged with pink, acid; nutlets 3-5, usually 4, 

 narrowed and rounded at the apex, acute at the base, irregularly 

 ridged on the back, with a high narrow grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long, 

 and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 4-5 m. high, with stems covered with dark gray bark 

 separating into small closely appressed scales, and stout nearly straight 

 branchlets light orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when 

 they first appear, becoming light chestnut-brown and lustrous in 

 their first season and dark red-brown the following year, and armed 

 with numerous slender straight or slightly curved dark chestnut- 

 brown shining spines 3.5-4.5 cm. long. 



Riverview Park, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jennings and Grace E. 

 Kinzer, (No. 28 type) October 2, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 27, 1906, 

 October 12, 1907. 

 ~. Crataegus bellatula n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of occasional hairs on the upper surface 

 of the midribs of young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly 

 cuneate or rounded at the entire base, finely often doubly serrate 

 above, with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only 

 above the middle into 4 or 5 pail's of small acuminate lobes; more 

 than half-grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May and 

 then very thin, yellow-green above and bluish below, and at maturity 

 thin, smooth and yellow-green on the upper surface, paler on the lower 

 surface, 3.5-4.5 cm. long and 2.5-3 cm. wide, with slender midribs 

 and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the 

 apex, glandular, with occasional minute persistent glands, 1.5-2.5 cm. 

 in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots ovate, rounded, truncate or occa- 

 sionally cordate at the broad base, coarsely serrate, deeply lobed and 

 often 6-7 cm. long and 5-5.6 cm. wide, with stout broad-winged 

 conspicuously glandular petioles. Flowers 2 cm. in diameter, on long 

 slender pedicels, in 4-6-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from 

 the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes wide, 

 acuminate, slightly and irregularly glandular-serrate below the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; anthers rose color; styles 4 or 5. 

 Fruit ripening in October, on elongated slender pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, short-oblong, full and rounded at the ends, green (on Septem- 

 ber 6th), about 1 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, 

 a deep narrow cavity, and spreading persistent lobes; flesh thin, green, 

 dry and mealy ; nutlets 5, rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, with 

 a low broad grooved ridge, 5-5.6 mm. long and 4.5-5 mm. wide. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March 



A broad round-topped shrub 5-6 m. high, with numerous stout 

 stems covered with dark gray scaly bark, spreading branches, and 

 slender only slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and marked 

 by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming orange-brown and 

 lustrous in their first season and duller gray-brown the following year, 

 and armed with numerous straight or slightly curved purple shining 

 spines 1.5-2 cm. long. 



Rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County, B. H. Smith, (No. 18 type) 

 May 20, 1909, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 6, 1909. 

 8. Crataegus amplifica n, sp. 



Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, cuneate or rounded at the base, 

 coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and 

 deeply divided into 3 or 4 pairs of acuminate spreading lobes ; nearly 

 half-grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May and then very 

 thin, dark yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and 

 pale and slightly villose in the axils of the veins below, and at maturity 

 thin, dark yellow-green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale bluish 

 green and almost glabrous on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 

 4-4.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles 

 slender, glandular, with minute stipitate often persistent glands, 

 hairy while young, becoming glabrous, 2.5-3.5 cm. in length; leaves 

 on vigorous shoots thicker and often 7-8 cm. long and broad. Flowers 

 1.6-1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender glabrous pedicels, in small 

 compact mostly 5-7- flowered corymbs, the long lower peduncles from 

 the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, 

 slender, acuminate, coarsely glandular-serrate, glabrous on the outer, 

 sparingly villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 18-20; anthers pink; styles 3-5, surrounded at the base by a broad 

 ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening late in October and persistent 

 after the fall of the leaves, on erect pedicels, in 2-6-fruited clusters, 

 depressed-globose, flattened at the apex, full and rounded at the base, 

 pentagonal, light greenish yellow to dark russet, marked by numerous 

 dark dots, pruinose, becoming lustrous, 1-1.3 cm. in diameter; calyx 

 prominent, with a short tube, a deep narrow cavity pointed in the bot- 

 tom, and small spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh thin, hard, 

 light yellowish green ; nutlets 3-5, gradually narrowed and rounded at 

 the ends, often broader at the apex than at the base, ridged on the 

 back, with a high narrow ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with stems sometimes 5 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with dark gray bark separating into long strips, and very 

 slender zigzag glabrous branchlets dark orange-green when they first 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



appear, becoming light chestnut brown, lustrous, and marked by dark 

 lenticels in their first season and darker colored the following year, 

 and armed with very numerous slender straight purple spines 3-4 cm. 

 long. 



Fern Hollow, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jennings, (No. 38 

 type) October 9, 1905, May 18, 1906. 



9. Crataegus denudata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves. 

 Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the 

 base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, 

 and divided usually only above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of small 

 acuminate lobes; less than half-grown when the flowers open about 

 the 20th of May and then thin, dark yellow-green and furnished above 

 along the midribs and veins with occasional white hairs, and at matur- 

 ity thin, dark blue-green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale 

 bluish green on the lower surface, 3.5-4.5 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, 

 with thin midribs and primary veins ; petioles slender, wing-margined 

 at the apex, glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 1.5-2.5 

 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots ovate, more coarsely serrate, 

 more deeply lobed and often 6-7 cm. long and broad. Flowers 1-1.3 

 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 

 5- or 6-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed 

 from wide bases, short, slender, acuminate, entire or occasionally 

 minutely glandular-dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 18-20; anthers dark rose color; styles 3-5, surrounded at the 

 base by a broad ring of pale hairs. Fruit ripening and falling early 

 in October, subglobose to ovoid-globose, full and rounded at the apex, 

 flattened at the base, pentagonal, russet green to dark purplish red, 

 pruinose, becoming lustrous, 1-1.3 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, 

 with a short tube, a broad deep cavity tomentose in the bottom, and 

 spreading lobes; flesh light yellow-green, thin, juicy, acid; nutlets 

 usually 4, narrowed at the ends, rounded and slightly grooved on the 

 back, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with stems 1.5-1.8 cm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark scaly bark, ascending and spreading branches, and slender 

 nearly straight dark chestnut brown lustrous branchlets armed with 

 very slender straight purple shining spines 2.5-3 cm. long and per- 

 sistent and much-branched on old stems. 



Ravines, Schenley Park, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, O. E. and 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Grace K. Jennings, (No. 3 type) May 23 and October 18, 1907, 0. E. 

 Jennings, October 3, 1908, May 24 and September 13, 1909. 



10. Crataegus leiophylla Sargent. 



Proc. Rochester Acad. Sci., IV, 99 (1903) ; Bull. CXXII, N. Y. State Mus., 41. 



Valley of the Little Juniata River below Altoona, Blair County, 

 B. H. Smith, (No. 269) May 20 and September 25, 1905; also in western 

 New York. 



11. Crataegus dunmorensis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 on the calyx-lobes. Leaves broadly ovate, acuminate, rounded, 

 truncate or abruptly cuneate at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and deeply divided into 3 or 4 pairs of 

 wide acuminate lateral lobes; nearly half-grown when the flowers 

 open in the last week of May and then light yellow-green and roughened 

 above by short white hairs and pale and glabrous below, and at matur- 

 ity thin, bluish green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, paler 

 on the lower surface, 3-4.5 cm. long and 3-4 cm. wide, with slender 

 midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, glandular, with minute 

 often persistent glands, 1.2-1.5 cm. in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 truncate or rounded at the base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply 

 lobed and often 6-7 cm. long and broad. Flowers 2.2 cm. in diameter, 

 on short slender pedicels, in compact mostly 5- flowered corymbs, with 

 linear-obovate to linear glandular green bracts and bractlets often 

 persistent until the flowers open; calyx-tube broadly obconic, the 

 lobes separated by wide sinuses, short, narrow, acuminate, entire or 

 minutely glandular-serrate near the middle, glabrous on the outer, 

 very sparingly hairy on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 15-20; anthers pale pink or nearly white; styles 3-5. Fruit 

 ripening in October, on slender drooping pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, obovate, rather broader than high, green until fully grown, 

 becoming dull red, pruinose, 1.2-1.3 cm. in diameter and 1-1.2 cm. 

 long; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a wide deep cavity, and 

 small spreading and reflexed persistent lobes dark red on the upper 

 side below the middle; flesh thin, green, dry and hard, slightly bitter; 

 nutlets 4 or 5, narrowed and rounded at the apex, acute at the base, 

 rounded and grooved or slightly ridged on the back, 6.5-7 mm. long 

 and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with numerous slender stems covered with 

 smooth pale bark, spreading branches, and very slender nearly straight 

 branchlets dark olive-green when they first appear, becoming dull 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



chestnut brown and marked by small pale lenticels in their first 

 season and dark red-brown the following year, and armed with numer- 

 ous slender straight or slightly curved purplish shining spines 3-5 

 cm. long. 



Hillside, Dunmore, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 26 type) May 28 and September 22, 1907. 

 12. Crataegus advena n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 petioles. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly concave-cuneate or 

 rounded at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and very slightly divided into 3 or 4 pairs of small 

 spreading lobes; nearly half-grown when the flowers open the middle 

 of May and then very thin, light yellow-green, smooth and slightly 

 hairy above along the midribs and paler and glabrous below, and at 

 maturity thin, dark yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper 

 surface, pale on the lower surface, 4.5-5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. 

 wide, with thin prominent midribs and primary veins ; petioles slender, 

 slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular, with minute stipitate 

 deciduous glands, slightly villose on the upper side while young, soon 

 becoming glabrous, 2-3 cm. in length. Flowers 1.8 cm. in diameter, 

 on long slender pedicels, in rather compact mostly 5-11-flowered 

 corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; 

 calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the 

 base, long, slender, acuminate, slightly glandular-serrate near the 

 apex, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 15-20; anthers dark pink; 

 styles 3-5, surrounded at the base by a broad ring of pale tomentum ; 

 Fruit ripening early in October, on long slender red pedicels, in few- 

 fruited clusters, subglobose to slightly obovate, full and rounded at 

 the ends, green when fully grown becoming red at maturity, pruinose, 

 marked by small dark dots, 1.5 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a short tube, a deep narrow cavity pointed and tomentose in 

 the bottom, and small spreading lobes ; flesh thin, firm and green ; 

 nutlets 3-5, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, rather 

 broader at the base than at the apex, prominently ridged on the back, 

 with a high broad deeply grooved ridge, 6-8 mm. long and about 

 6 mm. wide. 



A tree 3-4 m. high, with a tall trunk 6-7 cm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark scaly bark, small spreading intricately branched branches 

 forming a wide compact handsome head, and stout nearly straight 

 zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels 

 when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



in their first season and dull reddish brown the following year, and 

 armed with very numerous stout straight or slightly curved chestnut 

 brown shining spines 4-5 cm. long, and occasionally persistent on old 

 stems. 



Rich hillsides; common; Bedford, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 298 type) September 30, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 

 18, 1906; border of woods near Bedford Springs, Bedford County. 

 B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (Nos. 9 and 10, with darker rose colored 

 anthers) May 26, 1908, September 7, 1909, B. H. Smith, September 17, 

 1908. May 22, 1909. 

 13. Crataegus torta n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the leaves and petioles. 

 Leaves ovate, acuminate, cuneate or rounded at the base, finely 

 doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and divided into 4 or 5 

 paii-s of narrow acuminate lateral lobes; more than half-grown when 

 the flowers open from the middle to the end of May, and then thin, 

 dark yellow-green and slightly roughened above by short white hairs, 

 and pale and sparingly villose on the midribs and veins below, and at 

 maturity thin, dark green and scabrate on the upper surface, paler 

 on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3-4 cm. wide, with thin 

 midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, sparingly hairy on the 

 upper side while young, soon becoming glabrous, glandular, with usually 

 deciduous glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, 

 usually rounded or truncate at the broad base, more coarsely serrate, 

 more deeply lobed, and often 5-6 cm. long and broad, with stout 

 winged glandular petioles. Flowers 2.5 cm. in diameter, on short 

 slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 4-7-flowered corymbs, the 

 elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube 

 broadly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, 

 wide, acuminate, entire or slightly glandular-dentate near the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 16-20; anthers pink; styles 3-5. 

 Fruit ripening late in October and persistent until after the leaves have 

 fallen, on slender pedicels, in 4-7-fruited erect or spreading clusters, 

 short-oblong, 5-angled, rounded at the apex, flattened at the base, 

 light yellow or russet green, marked by large dark dots, rather lustrous, 

 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a distinct tube, a broad 

 deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and small spreading usually 

 deciduous lobes; flesh thin, hard, yellow-green, acidulous; nutlets 

 3-5, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, slightly ridged or 

 rounded and grooved on the back, 5.5-6 cm. long and 4 mm. wide. 



A slender tree 5 or 6 m. high, with a trunk sometimes 8-10 cm 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



in diameter, and covered with dark gray bark broken into closely 

 appressed scalas, and slender zigzag branchlets, dark orange-green 

 and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark 

 chestnut-brown and lustrous in their first season and dark red-brown 

 the following year, and armed with very numerous slender purple 

 shining spines 3.5-4 cm. long. 



Borders of woods in rich rocky soil, Nine-mile Run, Pittsburg, 

 Allegheny County, O. E. Jennings, (No. 40 type) October 9, 1905, 

 May 21, 1906, 0. E. Jennings and B. H. Smith, October 5, 1907. 



14. Crataegus relicta n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, rounded or rarely 

 abruptly cuneate at the wide base, coarsely often doubly serrate, 

 with straight or incurved glandular teeth, and more or less deeply 

 divided into 4 or 5 pairs of short broad acuminate lateral lobes ; more 

 than half-grown when the flowers open early in May, and at maturity 

 thin but firm in texture, dark blue-green, smooth and lustrous on 

 the upper surface, pale bluish green on the lower surface, 5-8 cm. long 

 and 4.5-6 cm. wide, with thin yellow midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, occasionally glandular, 2-3 cm. in length. Flowers 

 on short stout pedicels, in compact 5-8-flowered corymbs; calyx-tube 

 broadly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, long, 

 acuminate, entire or occasionally minutely dentate, reflexed after 

 anthesis; stamens 10; styles 3, surrounded at the base by a narrow 

 ring of pale hairs. Fruit ripening early in October, on stout erect or 

 spreading pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose but often rather 

 broader than high, slightly mammillate at the base, green flushed 

 with dull red, 9-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, without 

 a tube, with a narrow shallow cavity tomentose in the bottom, and 

 small spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh hard, greenish yellow; 

 nutlets 3-5, broad and rounded at the base, gradually narrowed and 

 rounded at the apex, or when 5 acute at the ends, slightly and irregu- 

 larly ridged or rounded and grooved on the back, 6-6.5 mm. long and 

 about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with numerous large spreading stems covered 

 with dark scaly bark and spreading into broad thickets, slender only 

 slightly zigzag branchlets dark chestnut brown, lustrous and marked 

 by pale lenticels in their first season and dull reddish brown the follow- 

 ing year, and armed with few slender straight purple spines 2-3.5 cm. 

 long and compound and persistent on old stems. 



Rocky knoll, Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith and 

 12 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



C. S. Sargent, (No. 320 type) October 9, 1906, May 27, 1908, B. H. 

 Smith, October 8, 1907. 



The flowers of this species have not been collected. 



15. Crataegus erubescens n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate, acuminate, concave-cuneate or rarely 

 rounded at the base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acumi- 

 nate lateral lobes; not more than one-third grown when the flowers 

 open late in May and then very thin and light yellow-green, and at 

 maturity thin but firm in texture, dark dull bluish green and smooth 

 on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 

 4-4.5 cm. wide, with prominent midribs and thin primary veins; 

 petioles stout, glandular, with occasional minute persistent glands, 

 2-2.5 cm. in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, gradually nar- 

 rowed and rounded at the broad base, more coarsely serrate and more 

 deeply lobed, and often 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide. Flowers 

 1.5 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 

 5-7-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed 

 from broad bases, short, slender, acuminate, entire or minutely dentate 

 near the middle; reflexed after anthesis; petals crenulate; stamens 

 7-10, generally 10; anthers pale rose-pink; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripen- 

 ing early in October, on long slender drooping pedicels, in usually 

 1-3-fruited clusters, subglobose but often broader than high, flattened 

 at the ends, pentagonal, purple-red, marked by large pale dots, pruinose, 

 becoming lustrous, 1-1.1 cm. long and 1.2-1.5 cm. wide; calyx little 

 enlarged, without a tube, with a narrow deep cavity pointed in the 

 bottom, and small spreading incurved persistent lobes; flesh thin, 

 hard, dry, light yellow-green, acidulous; nutlets 3-5, broad and 

 rounded at the apex, narrowed at the rounded base, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad low grooved ridge, 6.5-7 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



An arborescent shrub 3-4 m. high, with stems sometimes 1.5 cm. 

 in diameter, covered with dark gray bark broken into small closely 

 appressed scales, spreading branches forming a flat-topped head, and 

 stout nearly straight branchlets deeply tinged with red when they 

 first appear, becoming light chestnut brown very lustrous and marked 

 by dark lenticels in their first season, and dull red-brown the follow- 

 ing year, and armed with numerous slender nearly straight purple 

 shining spines 3.5-5.5 cm. long. 



Hillsides, in rich soil, Kittanning, Armstrong County, O. E. Jennings, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



B. H. Smith and C. 8. Sargent, (No. 60 type) October 7, 1906, 0. E. 

 Jennings, May 27, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings, October 7, 1907. 



16. Crataegus divisifolia n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the lower surface of 

 the young leaves. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, abruptly 

 cuneate at the base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and divided often to the middle into 4 or 5 

 pairs of narrow acuminate spreading lobes; when they unfold 

 sparingly villose on the midribs and veins below, soon becoming- 

 glabrous, less than half-grown when the flowers open about the 

 middle of May and then thin, dark yellow-green above and paler 

 below, and at maturity thin, firm, dark green and rather lustrous on 

 the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 4-5 cm. 

 wide, with slender midribs and thin primary veins arching obliquely 

 to the points of the lobes ; petioles slender, glandular, with minute 

 occasional persistent glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots thicker, broadly ovate, truncate or rounded at the wide base, 

 coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and often 7-8 cm. long and wide, 

 with thick midribs and stout glabrous petioles. Flowers 1.6-2 cm. 

 in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in small narrow 2-7-flowered 

 corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, the lobes short, nearly triangular, entire or 

 minutely glandular-dentate near the apex, reflexed after anthesis ; 

 stamens 9 or 10; anthers pale pink; styles 2-5, usually 4. Fruit 

 ripening early in October, on slender drooping pedicels, depressed 

 subglobose but rather broader than high, angled, often mammallate 

 round the middle, slightly tapering to the base, dull red or occasionally 

 blotched with green or russet green, sparingly punctate, pruinose, 

 1.4-1.7 cm. broad, 1.2-1.5 cm. high; calyx prominent, without a tube, 

 with a wide shallow cup-shaped cavity tomentose in the bottom, and 

 spreading or usually incurved often deciduous lobes; flesh thin, green, 

 dry and hard; nutlets usually 4, narrowed and rounded at the ends, 

 rather broader at the base than at the apex, rounded and only slightly 

 grooved on the back, 7-8 mm. long and 5-5.5 mm. wide. 



An arborescent shrub sometimes 2.5 m. high, with stems covered 

 with dark gray bark, numerous flexuose ascending branches forming a 

 round broadly obconic head, and stout nearly straight branchlets 

 dark orange green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light chestnut brown and very lustrous in their first season 

 and dull reddish brown the following year, and armed with numerous 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



stout slightly curved chestnut brown ultimately dark gray spines 

 4-5 cm. long. 



On rocky knolls, near Kutztown, Bucks County, C. L. Gruber, 

 (No. 22 type) October 6, 1907, May 17 and September 15. 1908. 



This handsome species resembles C. arcana Beadle in the char- 

 acter of the fruit but the stamens are only 10, not 20, and the deeply 

 divided leaves, which resemble those of C. piyinatifida from northern 

 China, are unlike those of any species in this group. 

 17. Crataegus edurescens n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves. 

 Leaves broadly ovate, acute or acuminate, cuneate or rarely rounded 

 at the wide entire base, sharply often doubly serrate above, with 

 glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only above the middle 

 into 4 or 5 pairs of small acuminate lobes ; nearly fully grown when the 

 flowers open from the 15th to the 20th of May and then very thin, 

 light yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and pale 

 and glabrous below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green, glabrous, 

 smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, rather lighter-colored on 

 the lower surface, 3.5-4.5 cm. long and often nearly as broad, with 

 thin midribs and primary veins ; petioles slender, glandular, with small 

 sometimes persistent glands, 1.5-3 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots thicker, more deeply lobed, rounded at the wide base, sometimes 

 5.5-6 cm. long and often broader than long. Flowers 1.6-1.8 cm. in 

 diameter, on long slender pedicels, in mostly 7- or 8-flowered corymbs, 

 the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube broadly 

 obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, long, acumi- 

 nate, occasionally furnished above the middle with large glandular 

 teeth, or nearly entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-10, usually 

 10; anthers dark rose color; styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by a 

 broad ring of pale t omentum. Fruit ripening early in October, on 

 long slender spreading pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, obovate, 

 rounded at the apex, slightly narrowed to the base, green, pruinose, 

 becoming red, 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short 

 tube, a broad deep cavity wide and tomentose in the bottom, and 

 spreading or reflexed persistent lobes; flesh thin, dry and mealy; 

 nutlets 3 or 4, narrowed and rounded at the apex, broader and rounded 

 at the base, rounded and only slightly ridged on the back, 6.5-7 mm. 

 long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with slender zigzag branchlets light orange 

 green when they first appear, becoming bright chestnut brown, lus- 

 trous and marked by pale lenticels in their first season and dull reddish 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



brown the following year, and armed with very numerous slender 

 straight or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 3.5-5 cm. 

 long. 



Edges of meadows in Edgmont Township, above Castle Rock, 

 Delaware County, B. H. Smith, (No. 239 type) May 20 and October 

 6, 1904, May 19, 1909. 

 18. Crataegus latifrons n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves 

 Leaves broadly ovate, acuminate, abruptly concave-cuneate or rounded 

 at the wide base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small 

 acuminate spreading lobes; more than half-grown when the flowers 

 open the middle of May and then thin, yellow-green, smooth, lustrous 

 and glabrous above with the exception of a few hairs on the upper 

 side of the midribs near their base, and pale below, and at maturity 

 thin, dark yellow-green and lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the 

 lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3.5-5 cm. wide, with thin midribs 

 and primary veins; petioles slender, glandular, with persistent glands, 

 slightly hairy on the upper side while young, soon becoming glabrous, 

 2-3 cm. in length. Flowers 1.6 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in small compact mostly 4-6-flowered corymbs, the long 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube broadly 

 obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, slender, 

 acuminate, entire or minutely dentate, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 18-20; anthers cream color; styles 2-4, surrounded at the base by a 

 narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening in October, on slender 

 drooping red pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to short- 

 oblong, full and rounded at the ends, dark red blotched with green, 

 marked by large dark dots, 1.4-1.5 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, 

 with a broad shallow cavity, and spreading persistent lobes dark red 

 on the upper side below the middle; nutlets 2-4, broad and rounded 

 at the base, gradually narrowed and acute or rounded at the apex, 

 ridged on the back, with a broad low grooved ridge 6.5-7 mm. long 

 and 4.5-5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 5-6 m. high, with stems sometimes 1.5-2 dm. in diameter, 

 stout straight branches, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets dark 

 orange-green tinged with red and marked by numerous pale lenticels 

 when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous 

 in their first season and dull reddish brown the following year, and 

 armed with few stout straight or slightly curved purple shining spines 

 2.5-3.5 cm. long. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Rocky knell, Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (Nos. 

 308 type, 303) May 19, 1906, October 8, 1907, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, (No. 303) October 9, 1906, B. H. Smith, (No. 305) May 19, 

 1906, October 8, 1907, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, October 7. 

 1906, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 305 A) October 9, 1906. 

 19. Crataegus tribulosa n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of 

 the young leaves and on the petioles. Leaves broadly ovate, acute 

 or acuminate, rounded or truncate at the wide base, sharply often 

 doubly serrate, with glandular teeth, and divided into 3 or 4 pairs 

 of short broad lateral lobes; about half -grown when the flowers open 

 the middle of May and then thin, yellow-green and slightly hairy on 

 the upper side of the midribs, and pale bluish green below, and at 

 maturity thick, dark yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper 

 surface, paler on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 4-4.5 cm. wide, 

 with thin prominent yellow midribs and primary veins; petioles 

 slender, glandular, with minute often persistent glands, sparingly 

 villose on the upper side while young, becoming glabrous, often rose 

 color in the autumn, 1.5-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 truncate or slightly cordate at the base, more coarsely serrate and 

 more deeply lobed, and often 5-6 cm. long and wide. Flowers 2-2.2 

 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in narrow mostly 4- or 

 5-flowered corymbs, with oblong-obovate to linear acute glandular- 

 serrate green bracts and bractlets often persistent until the flowers 

 open, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; 

 calyx-tube broadly obconic, the lobes separated by wide sinuses, 

 short, broad, acuminate, entire or occasionally minutely dentate 

 reflexed after anthesls; stamens 20; anthers cream color; styles 4 or 

 5. Fruit ripening at the end of September, on long slender pedicels, 

 in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong to subglobose, often rather 

 broader than high, slightly angled, dull green tinged with red, about 

 1 cm. in diameter ; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a broad shallow 

 cavity wide in the bottom, and spreading and reflexed lobes; flesh 

 thin, green, dry and hard; nutlets 4 or 5, rounded at the ends but 

 narrower at the apex than at the base, rounded and slightly ridged on 

 the back, 5-5.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A narrow shrub 3 or 4 m. high, with stems sometimes 4-6 cm. in 

 diameter, covered with dark red scaly bark, small branches, and slender 

 zigzag branchlets, dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels 

 when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous 

 in their first season and dull red-brown the following vear, and armed 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1S3 



with numerous slender straight or slightly curved purple shining 

 spines 4-5 cm. long, persistent and becoming branched on old stems. 



Dry oak woods, Bedford Springs, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 297 type) September 30, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 18, 

 1906, May 22, 1909. 

 20. Crataegus inoompta. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate to oval, acute or acuminate, rounded 

 or abruptly cuneate at the broad base, finely often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only above 

 the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of short lobes; nearly half-grown when 

 the flowers open about the 20th of May and then thin, yellow-green, 

 lustrous above and rather paler below, and at maturity thick, dark 

 blue-green on the upper surface, pale bluish green on the lower sur- 

 face, 4-4.5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with slender midribs and 

 primary veins; petioles stout, slightly wing-margined at the apex, 

 glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 1.8-2.2 cm. in length; 

 leaves on vigorous shoots usually rounded or cordate at the base, 

 more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed and often 5.5-6 cm. long 

 and nearly as br©ad. Flowers 2-2.3 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in wide 4-7-flowered corymbs, with oblong-obovate to 

 linear glandular rose-colored bracts and bracelets often persistent 

 until the petals fall, the long lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube broadly obconic, the lobes separated by wide sin- 

 uses, short, acuminate, entire or irregularly and minutely dentate 

 near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; anthers pale 

 yellow; styles 2 or 3, usually 3. Fruit ripening in October, on long 

 slender drooping pedicels, subglobose, or often rather broader than 

 high, dull red, pruinose, marked by large pale dots, about 1 cm. in 

 diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a wide deep cavity 

 broad in the bottom, and elongated reflexed persistent lobes; flesh 

 thin, green, dry and hard; nutlets usually 3, rounded at the ends, 

 rounded and ridged on the back, with a broad deeply grooved ridge, 

 about 5 mm. long and 4 mm. wide. 



A slender shrub 1-2 m. high, with thin stems covered with dark 

 scaly bark and spreading into large thickets, and slender zigzag 

 branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming dark red-brown in their first season and dull 

 reddish brown the following year, and armed with many stout straight 

 or slightly curved dark chestnut brown shining spines 3.5-5 cm. long, 

 and persistent and very numerous on old stems. 



Borders of oak and pine woods on the Maloney Home for the 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Aged, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, B. H. Smith and C. 



S. Sargent, (No. 72 type) May 24, 1908, A. Twining, September 19, 



1908. 



21. Crataegus shaferi Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. 3, 397 (1902). 



Glabrous. Leaves broadly ovate, acute or acuminate, abruptly 

 cuneate or rounded at the broad base, sharply often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only above 

 the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small acuminate spreading lobes ; tinged 

 with red when they first appear, more than half grown when the 

 flowers open from the 15th to the 20th of May and then thin, light 

 yellow-green and lustrous above and paler below, and at maturity 

 thick, dark yellow-green on the upper surface, paler and bluish green 

 on the lower surface, 5-7 cm. long and 4-5.5 cm. wide, with thin mid- 

 ribs and primary veins; petioles slender, 2.5-3.5 cm. in length; leaves 

 on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, acuminate, cordate or occasionally 

 truncate at the base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, 

 and often 5-6 cm. long and wide. Flowers 2.4-2.5 cm. in diameter, 

 on slender pedicels, in mostly 5-7-flowered compact corymbs, with 

 obovate to linear glandular bracts and bractlets fading rose color and 

 often persistent until the flowers open, the lower peduncles from the 

 axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube broadly obconic, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from broad bases, long, acuminate, entire or occasionally 

 minutely dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; 

 anthers white; styles 4 or 5, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring 

 of white hairs. Fruit ripening late in October and often persistent 

 until after the leaves have fallen, on short stout erect or spreading 

 pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose, sometimes rather broader 

 than high, dull red blotched with green, slightly pruinose, 1.2-1.3 cm. 

 in diameter; calyx much enlarged, with a short tube, a broad deep 

 cavity wide and tomentose in the bottom, and spreading and reflexed 

 persistent lobes; flesh thin, green, dry and mealy; nutlets 4 or 5, 

 narrowed at the ends, broader at the apex than at the base, rounded 

 and slightly grooved on the back, 6.5-7 mm. long and about 4 mm. 

 wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with numerous stems, and slender nearly 

 straight branchlets dark green more or less tinged with red when 

 they first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown, lustrous and marked 

 by pale lenticels in their first season, darker-colored the following 

 year, and armed with numerous slender straight or slightly curved 

 purple shining spines 3-4 cm. in length. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



On the Shafer farm in Moor Township, west of Carnot, in Alle- 

 gheny County, J. A. Shafer, May 20 and October 8, 1901, May 18 and 

 20 and October 26, 1902. 



Mr. Ashe has described the leaves as "at first villose on the petioles 

 and midrib above and veins beneath," but the leaves of Shafer's 

 specimens from which my description has been drawn are entirely 

 glabrous even when they are unfolding. 



Crataegus Shafer i is near Cratcegus cognata Sarg., but differs from 

 that species in the broader leaves of the young shoots, in its sub- 

 globose not obovate fruit, and by the much larger clayx of the fruit. 

 22. Crataegus bedfordensis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, rounded or 

 broadly cuneate at the entire sometimes unsymmetrical base, finely 

 doubly serrate above, with minute straight or incurved glandular 

 teeth, and very slightly divided above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs 

 of small acute spreading lobes; when they unfold slightly tinged with 

 red and sparingly hairy above, with deciduous hairs, nearly half- 

 grown and almost glabrous when the flowers open the middle of May 

 and then thin, light yellow-green, smooth and lustrous above and 

 paler below, and at maturity dark yellow-green and lustrous on the 

 upper surface, dull bluish green on the lower surface, 3-4 cm. long 

 and 2-2.8 cm. wide, with thin yellow midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, glabrous while young, with minute stipitate deciduous 

 glands, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, 

 rounded at the wide base, 3.5-4 cm. long and broad. Flowers 1.5 cm. 

 in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in 4-8-, usually 5-flowered 

 corymbs, with oblong-obovate to linear glandular-serrate rose-colored 

 bracts and bractlets often persistent until the flowers open, the elon- 

 gated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube 

 narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed fron the base, short, 

 broad, acuminate, entire or occasionally minutely dentate near the 

 middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; anthers white; styles 3 or 

 4, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit 

 ripening in October, on slender pedicles, in few-fruited drooping 

 clusters, short-oblong to slightly obovate, full and rounded at the 

 ends, green and pruinose when fully grown, turning pale red, marked 

 by small dark dots, 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with 

 a short tube, a broad shallow cavity wide in the bottom, and small 

 spreading and reflexed lobes; flesh thin, green and firm; nutlets 3 or 4, 

 gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, rounded and slightly 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



grooved or irregularly ridged on the back, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 

 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1.5-3 m. high with stems sometimes 10 cm. in diameter, 

 covered with dark scaly bark and spreading freely into large thickets, 

 small, contorted dark branches, and slender rather contorted branch- 

 lets light orange-green when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut 

 brown, lustrous and marked by small dark lenticels in their first 

 season and dull reddish brown the following year, and nearly unarmed, 

 or armed with numerous slender straight chestnut brown shining 

 spines 2-4.5 cm. long. 



Rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County; common; B. H. Smith 

 and C. S. Sargent, (No. 300 type) September 30, 1905, B. H. Smith, 

 May 18, 1906. May 22. 1908; in oak woods, Bedford Springs, Bedford 

 County, (Nos. 293 and 294), B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 

 30, 1905, May 18, 1906. 



23. Crataegus conjuncta Sargent. 



Rhodora. V. 57 (1903); Bot. Gazette, XXXV, 379; Bull. CV, N. Y. State 

 Mus., 54. 



Keyser Valley. Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 15) 

 June 4. 1907, May 23, 1908, (No. 56) October 22, 1907, May 23, 1908; 

 also Illinois to eastern New York and southern New England. 



24. Crataegus duracina n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate to rhombic, acuminate, abruptly 

 or gradually narrowed and cuneate at the base, finely often doubly 

 serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and divided usually only above 

 the middle into 3-5 pairs of small acute spreading lobes; not more 

 than one-third grown when the flowers open at the end of May and then 

 dark yellow-areen, smooth, lustrous and furnished with occasional 

 hairs along the midribs above and paler below, and at maturity thin 

 and firm, dark yellow-green and lustrous on the upper surface, pale 

 on the lower surface. 4.5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thin 

 prominent midribs and primary veins ; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, glandular, with minute mostly deciduous glands, 

 2.5-3.5 cm. in length. Flowers about 1.5 cm. in diameter, on short 

 slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 4-7-flowered corymbs, the 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, short, slender, 

 acuminate, entire or minutely glandular-dentate near the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 17-20; anthers cream color; styles 3 




1910.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



or 4, usually 4. Fruit ripening in October, on slender elongated 

 pedicels, in drooping few-fruited clusters, subglobose to slightly 

 obovate, rounded at the ends, slightly concave at the base, red 

 blotched with green, pruinose, 8-11 mm. long and 8-10 mm. thick; 

 calyx prominent, with a short tube, a deep wide cavity broad in the 

 bottom, and spreading and reflexed persistent lobes ; flesh greenish 

 yellow, hard, dry and subacid; nutlets usually 4, rounded at the 

 ends, rather broader at the base than at the apex, slightly ridged on 

 the back, 6.5-7 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1.5-2 m. high, with small ascending stems, and slender 

 nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale 

 lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown and 

 lustrous in their first season and rather darker-colored the following- 

 year. 



Along the roadside at the mouth of Whisky Hollow across the 

 Allegheny River from Kittanning, Armstrong County, 0. E. Jennings, 

 (W. H. type) May 27, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings, September 

 28, 1909. 

 25. Crataegus lecta n. sp. 



Leaves ovate to oval, acuminate, concave-cuneate at the base, 

 coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and 

 divided usually only above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of small acumi- 

 nate lobes; nearly one-third grown when the flowers open about the 

 middle of May and then thin, dark yellow-green and roughened above 

 by short white hairs and paler and slightly villose, with persistent 

 hairs, along the midribs below, and at maturity thin but firm in texture, 

 dark blue-green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale bluish green 

 on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with slender 

 prominent midribs and veins; petioles slender, covered while young 

 with matted pale hairs, becoming glabrous, 2-3 cm. in length. Flowers 

 1.5-1.8 cm. in diameter, on short slender villose pedicels, in mostly 

 5-8 flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils 

 of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, glabrous, the lobes 

 short, slender, acuminate, entire or occasionally minutely dentate 

 near the middle, glabrous, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 18-20; 

 anthers pale yellow; styles 3-5. Fruit ripening in October, on short 

 stout drooping or spreading pedicels, in mostly 1-3-fruited clusters, 

 obovate, rounded at the apex, gradually tapering to the obtuse union 

 with the pedicel, sometimes obtusely 4- or 5-angled, light yellow- 

 green, with a dark orange-red cheek, or finally orange-red, 1.3-1.5 

 cm. long and broad; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



wide shallow cavity tomentose in the bottom, and small spreading 

 and reflexed generally persistent lobes; flesh thin, hard, acid, greenish 

 yellow; nutlets usually 4, broad and rounded at the apex, gradually 

 narrowed to the rounded base, ridged on the back, with a low narrow 

 or broad grooved ridge, 7.5-8 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 4-5 m. high, with a stem 7-10 cm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark brown bark separating into large loosely attached scales, 

 and stout nearly straight glabrous branchlets dark orange-green and 

 marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light 

 chestnut brown and very lustrous in their first season and dull gray- 

 brown the following year, and armed with numerous stout straight 

 or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 3-4.5 cm. long and 

 compound and very numerous on old stems. 



Banks of rocky ravines, between Carnot and Stoop Ferry, Alle- 

 gheny County, O. E. Jennings, (Nos. 74 type and 75) May 20, 1907, 

 O. E. and Grace K. Jennings and B. H. Smith, October 6, 1907. 



4. Medioxim.e n. gr. 



Leaves thick, hairy on the upper surface early in the season, glabrous 

 and usually smooth at maturity; petioles long and slender. 

 Flowers in few-flowered glabrous corymbs; stamens 10 or less; 

 anthers rose color or rarely pink. Fruit subglobose to short- 

 oblong, ovate or obovate, generally longer than broad, rarely 

 slightly angled, scarlet, crimson or orange-red, occasionally 

 slightly pruinose, ripening late in September or in October; flesh 

 hard and solid; mature calyx sessile; nutlets 2-5, usually 3 or 4. 



In this group I have placed a number of shrubby species which 

 in some important characters appear intermediate between the Prui- 

 nosae and the Tenuifoliae. From the former they differ in their thinner 

 leaves, smaller flowers, always glabrous usually few-flowered corymbs, 

 generally fewer stamens with rose-colored or pink anthers, and especially 

 in the fruit ; this has a sessile calyx, is rarely slightly pruinose, never 

 green at maturity like that of many of the Pruinosae and generally 

 ripens earlier. From the Tenuifolise the plants of this group differ 

 in their thicker leaves, generally fewer-flowered corymbs, and in their 

 solid not succulent later-ripening fruit. In addition to the species 

 enumerated in this paper, Crataegus alacris Sarg. and Crataegus vittata 

 Ashe of eastern Pennsylvania may be placed in this group, as well 

 as many of the well-known species of western New York, Ontario and 

 Michigan which have been grouped with the Pruinosae, like C. opulens 

 Sarg., C. maineana Sarg., C. diffusa Sarg., C. compta Sarg., C. dissona 

 Sarg., and others. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Fruit subglobose to short-oblong. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow. 



Leaves broadly ovate to semiorbicular, acute 1. C. medioxima. 



Leaves ovate to deltoid, acuminate 2. C. felix. 



Calyx cavity of the fruit broad and shallow; leaves ovate-oblong, 



acuminate 3. C. stolonifera. 



Fruit globose to depressed-globose. 



Leaves broadly ovate, abruptly cuneate or rounded at the base. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow. 



Flowers not more than 1 cm. in diameter; fruit obscurely 



pentagonal, dark red 4. C. ambigens. 



Flowers at least 1.5 cm. in diameter; fruit not pentagonal, 



often broader than high, scarlet 5. C. puta. 



Calyx cavity of the fruit broad and shallow ; flowers up to 2 cm. 



in diameter; anthers pink 6. C. blairensis. 



Leaves ovate, cuneate at the base, only slightly hairy on the 

 upper surface; fruit flattened at the ends, obscurely angled, 

 often broader than long; calyx cavity broad and shallow. 



7. C. leimonia. 

 Leaves ovate to rhombic, cuneate at the base; fruit depressed- 

 globose, crimson, slightly pruinose; calyx cavity broad and 



shallow 8. C. dissona. 



Fruit short-oblong; leaves ovate, more or less scabrate on the upper 



surface at maturity 9. C. ampliata. 



Fruit short-oblong to obovate. 



Calyx cavity of the fruit broad and shallow; leaves broadly ovate. 



10. C. pyramidata. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow. 



Leaves ovate, glabrous at maturity 11. C. impervia. 



Leaves oblong-ovate, scabrate on the upper surface at maturity. 



12. C. luxuriosa. 

 Fruit obovate. 

 Leaves ovate, acuminate. 



Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow; fruit slightly 5-angled. 

 orange to greenish orange, becoming scarlet, slightly pruinose. 



13. C. recordabilis. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit broad and shallow. 

 Calyx-lobes villose on the inner surface. 



Flowers in wide lax corymbs; calyx-lobes long and slender. 



14. C. delectata. 

 Flowers in narrow compact corymbs; calyx-lobes short and 



broad 15. C. infensa. 



Calyx-lobes glabrous. 



Mature leaves scabrate on the upper surface; flowers in 

 5-10-flowered corymbs; anthers rose color. 



16. C. vegrandis. 

 Mature leaves glabrous on the upper surface; flowers in 



4-7-flowered corymbs ; anthers pale pink 17. C. radina. 



Leaves oblong-ovate, blue-green, scabrate on the upper surface; 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



fruit dark orange-red, sometimes 3-5-angled, slightly pruinose; 



calyx cavity deep and narrow 18. C. loctans. 



Leaves broad-ovate, scabrate on the upper surface. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow. 



Leaves yellow-green; anthers pale pink; fruit scarlet. 



19. C. ruricola. 

 Leaves blue-green; anthers dark rose color; fruit orange- red. 



20. C. effcra. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit broad and shallow ; leaves ovate to oval, 

 blue-green 21. C. coerulea. 



1. Crataegus medioxima «• sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves broadly ovate to semi-orbicular, acute, 

 rounded or abruptly cuneate at the wide entire base, finely often 

 doubly serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, and very slightly 

 divided usually only above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small acute 

 lobes; nearly fully grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May 

 and then thin, light yellow-green, smooth, lustrous and slightly hairy 

 above especially along the midribs and veins, and at maturity thin, 

 dark yellow-green smooth and glabrous on the upper surface, paler on 

 the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, with thin promi- 

 nent midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-mar- 

 gined at the apex, glandular while young, with mostly deciduous 

 glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length. Flowers 1.4-1.6 cm. in diameter, on 

 short slender pedicels, in compact mostly 5-8-flowered corymbs, the 

 long lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube nar- 

 rowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, red and acuminate at the apex, 

 entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5 or 6; anthers deep rose- 

 purple; styles 2-5. Fruit ripening and falling early in October, on 

 short stout drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose or 

 rarely short-oblong, somewhat flattened at the ends, slightly pentag- 

 onal, dark red marked by numerous large pale dots, 1.1-1.4 cm. in 

 diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a narrow deep cavity pointed in 

 the bottom, and small reflexed closely appressed often deciduous 

 lobes; flesh thick, hard, yellow-green, rather bitter; nutlets 2-5, nar- 

 rowed and rounded, or when 5, acute at the ends, ridged on the back 

 with a broad low grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



An arborescent shrub 3-4 m. high, with stems sometimes 2.5 cm. 

 in diameter, covered with dark gray scaly bark, large smooth gray 

 branches, and stout nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green 

 more or less tinged with red when they first appear, becoming purple 

 and marked by dark lenticels and somewhat pruinose in their first 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



season and dark red-brown the following year, and armed with numer- 

 ous stout slightly curved purple shining spines 4-4.5 cm. long. 



Between Carnot and Stoops Ferry, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jen- 

 nings, (No. 73 type) May 20, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings and 

 B. H. Smith, October 6, 1907. 



2. Crataegus felix Sargent. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 589. 



Corrected Characters of the Flowers. — Leaves less than one-half grown 

 when the flowers open about the 10th of May and then very thin, 

 yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs. Flowers 

 1.5-1.9 cm. in diameter, on very short slender glabrous pedicels, in 

 small compact 6-12-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the 

 axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from wide bases, long, slender, acuminate, minutely gland- 

 ular-dentate above the middle or entire, slightly hairy on the inner 

 surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-10; anthers dark rose color; 

 styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by a broad ring of pale tomentum. 



Through an error caused by the mixing of specimens of two plants 

 growing close together the flowers of Crataegus felix were originally 

 described as with 18-20 stamens and pale rose-colored anthers, and 

 this species was placed among the Pruinosae. 



3. Crataegus stolonifera Sargent. 



Bot. Gazette, XXXV, 109 (The Genus Crataegus in Xew Castle County, 

 Delaware) (1903); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 623; No. IV, 

 Ontario Nat. Sci. Bull., 38. 



Valley of the Little Juniata River below Altoona, Blair County, 

 B. H. Smith, (No. 262) May 20, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 September 27, 1905; also in northern Delaware, eastern Pennsylvania 

 and southern Michigan. 



4. Crataegus ambigens n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of 

 the young leaves and on the calyx-lobes. Leaves broadly ovate, 

 acute or acuminate, abruptly cuneate or rounded at the wide base, 

 finely often doubly serrate, with short straight or incurved glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad lateral 

 lobes; about one-third grown when the flowers open at the end of 

 May and then thin, yellow-green and slightly roughened above by 

 short white hairs and paler below, and at maturity thick, dark yellow- 

 green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, pale bluish green on 

 the lower surface, 3-4 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, with thin promi- 

 nent midribs and primary veins ; petioles slender, glandular early in the 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



season, with mostly deciduous glands, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots subcoriaceous, rounded or truncate at the broad base, 

 coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and often 5-6 cm. long and wide, 

 with stout midribs, prominent primary veins, reticulate veinlets 

 and stout conspicuously glandular petioles. Flowers 9-10 mm. in 

 diameter, on long slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 7-10- 

 nowered corymbs, the long lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic. the lobes short, slender, acumin- 

 ate, minutely glandular-dentate above the middle, reflexed after 

 anthesis; stamens 8-10, usually 10; anthers rose color; styles 2-4. 

 usually 3. Fruit ripening early in October, on short stout drooping 

 pedicels, in usually 1- or 2-fruited clusters, globose to depressed- 

 globose, flattened at the apex, obscurely pentagonal, greenish yellow 

 becoming dark purplish red, marked by numerous pale dots, some- 

 what pruinose, 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx slightly enlarged, with 

 a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading persistent lobes dark red 

 on the upper side below the middle; flesh firm, greenish yellow, rather 

 juicy and acid; nutlets 2-4, gradually narrowed and rounded at the 

 ends, ridged on the back, with a broad high deeply grooved ridge, 

 7-7.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with stout stems covered with gray scaly 

 bark, and slender nearly straight branchlets, light orange-green 

 more or less tinged with red when they first appear, becoming bright 

 orange-brown and marked by dark lenticels in their first season and 

 lighter-colored the following year, and armed with numerous stout 

 straight or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 1.5-4 cm. 

 long. 



Hillsides, Kit tanning, Armstrong County, O. E. Jennings, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 62 type) October 7, 1906, O. E. Jennings, 

 May 27, and June 1, 1907, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, October 7, 1907. 

 5. Crataegus puta n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 on the calyx-lobes. Leaves ovate, acuminate, rounded or abruptly 

 cuneate at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of broad acute lobes; 

 nearly fully grown when the flowers open at the end of May and then 

 thin, light yellow-green and slightly roughened above by short white 

 hairs and pale below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green, smooth and 

 lustrous on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. 

 long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with slender prominent midribs and thin 

 primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 2.5-3 cm. in length. 

 Flowers 1.5 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in lax 6-12- 

 flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of 

 upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, 

 acuminate and rose-colored at the apex, minutely glandular-dentate 

 near the middle, sparingly villose on the inner surface, reflexed after 

 anthesis; stamens 5-10; anthers rose color; styles 3-5. Fruit ripening 

 early in October, on stout drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 subglobose often broader than long, full and rounded at the ends, 

 scarlet, lustrous, marked by numerous large pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. long 

 and 1-1.4 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a deep narrow 

 cavity, and small spreading persistent lobes; flesh yellow, acid; nutlets 

 3-5, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad deeply grooved ridge, 6.5-7 cm. long and about 4 mm. 

 wide. 



A shrub 5-6 m. high, with stout stems covered with ashy gray bark, 

 small ascending branches forming a wide head,and slender nearly straight 

 branchlets dark orange-green when they first appear, becoming light 

 chestnut brown, lustrous and marked by small dark lenticels in their first 

 season and dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with stout 

 straight or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 1.5-2 cm. 

 long, and numerous on the stems and branches. 



Lincoln Heights, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 3 type) May 31 and October 5, 1907. 



6. Crataegus blairensis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of the 

 young leaves. Leaves broadly ovate, acuminate, abruptly cuneate at 

 the wide base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad acuminate 

 lateral lobes ; tinged with red and covered on the upper surface with 

 soft white hairs when they unfold, more than half-grown when the 

 flowers open about the 20th of May and then thin, light yellow-green 

 and glabrous above and paler below, and at maturity thick, dark 

 bluish green and lustrous on the upper surface, light yellow-green on 

 the lower surface, 5-6.5 cm. long and 4-4.5 cm. wide, with thin mid- 

 ribs and primary veins; petioles slender, glandular, with minute 

 mostly deciduous glands, 2.5-4 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots often rounded at the base, more coarsely serrate, more deeply 

 lobed and 7-8 cm. long and 6-7 cm. wide, with stouter conspicu- 

 ously glandular petioles and foliaceous lunate glandular-serrate 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



deciduous stipules. Flowers 1.8-2 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in small compact mostly 5-7-flowered corymbs, the elongated 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube broadly 

 obconic, the lobes separated by wide sinuses, gradually narrowed 

 from the base, short broad, acuminate, irregularly glandular-serrate 

 below the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers pale 

 pink; styles 3-5, surrounded at the base by a broad ring of pale tomen- 

 tum. Fruit ripening in October, on stout spreading pedicels, in 

 few-fruited clusters, subglobose rather broader than long and flattened 

 at the ends to slightly obovate, dull red, pruinose, marked by dark 

 dots, 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; flesh green, dry and hard; calyx little 

 enlarged, without a tube, with a wide shallow cavity, and small reflexed 

 closely appressed lobes; nutlets 3-5, gradually narrowed and rounded 

 at the ends, rather broader at the base than at the apex, ridged on 

 the back, with a broad high grooved ridge, 7.5-8 mm. long and 5.5-6 

 mm. wide. 



A tree sometimes 10 m. high, with a trunk 3 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with dark scaly bark, large ascending branches, and stout 

 slightly zigzag branchlets light orange-green and marked by pale 

 lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut or orange- 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dull gray-brown the 

 following year, and armed with numerous slender straight or slightly 

 curved purple shining spines 3.5-4 cm. long. 



Rich bottom-lands of the Little Juniata River, near Elizabeth 

 Furnace, East Altoona, Blair County, B. H. Smith, (Nos. 281 type and 

 266) May 22, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 27, 

 1905, (No. 258) B. H. Smith, May 20, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, September 27, 1905. 



7. Crataegus leimonia n. sp. 



Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly or gradually narrowed and 

 cuneate at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acute spreading 

 lateral lobes; about half-grown when the flowers open at the end of 

 May and then thin, yellow-green and slightly hairy along the midribs 

 above, paler below, and at maturity thin, light yellow-green and 

 lustrous on the upper surface, pale yellow-green on the lower surface, 

 3.5-4.5 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular, 

 with minute occasionally persistent glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length. 

 Flowers not more than 1.5 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, 

 in small compact mostly 5-7-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles 




1910. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes long, slender, acuminate, coarsely glandular-serrate near the 

 middle or entire, refiexed after anthesis ; stamens 10 ; anthers rose color ; 

 styles 2-4, usually 3. Fruit ripening in October, on long slender 

 drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose, flattened at 

 the ends, concave at the insertion of the pedicel, more or less obtusely 

 5-angled, orange-red blotched with yellow-green, marked by large 

 pale dots, slightly pruinose, 1-1.5 cm. broad and 1-1.3 cm. long; 

 calyx little enlarged, with a wide shallow cavity, and spreading and 

 appressed lobes; flesh thin, light greenish yellow, slightly juicy; nutlets 

 usually 3, broad and rounded at the base, narrowed at the apex ; 

 ridged on the back, with a broad prominent sometimes grooved ridge, 

 6-7 mm. long and 5-5.7 mm. wide, or when 2 nearly hemispherical in 

 general outline. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high with slender nearly straight branchlets dark 

 orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming dark chestnut red and lustrous during their first season 

 and dull red-brown the following year, and armed with numerous 

 slender straight chestnut brown spines 3-4 cm. long. 



In rich alluvial soil near Kitt aiming, Armstrong County, O. E. 

 Jennings, (No. 65 type) May 27, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings, 

 September 27, 1909. 



8. Crataegus dissona Sargent. 



Rhodora, V, 60 (1903); Bot, Gazette, XXXV, 379; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1905, 601. 



On an alluvial flat, West Kittanning, Armstrong County, O. E. 

 Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 64) October 7, 1906, 

 O. E. Jennings, May 27, 1907; also Illinois to western and southern 

 New England and to eastern Pennsylvania. 



9. Crataegus ampliata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper curface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, rounded or cuneate 

 at the broad base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and deeply divided into 4 or 5 pairs of broad acuminate lateral 

 lobes; nearly fully grown when the flowers open about the middle 

 of May and then thin, dark blue-green, lustrous and roughened above 

 by short white hairs and pale below, and at maturity thin but firm 

 in texture, scabrate or nearly smooth on the upper surface, 4.5- 

 5.5 cm. long and 3.5-5 cm. wide, with slender midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular 

 with minute deciduous glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



shoots thicker, cordate or truncate at the base, more coarsely serrate 

 more deeply lobed, and sometimes 6-6.5 cm. long and broad, with 

 stout glandular petioles. Flowers 1.2-1.4 cm. in diameter, on long 

 stout pedicels, in small 5- or 6-flowered corymbs, the elongated lower 

 peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, long, slender, acumin- 

 ate, entire or minutely glandular-dentate near the middle, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers rose color; styles 3-5. Fruit 

 ripening early in October, on stout pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 short-oblong, full and rounded at the ends, dull scarlet, 1.2 cm. long 

 and nearly as broad; flesh thin and yellow; nutlets 3-5, rounded at 

 the base, gradually narrowed and rounded at the apex, or when 5 

 acute at the ends, ridged on the back, with a high narrow slightly 

 grooved ridge, about 6 mm. long and 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with small stems covered with ashy gray 

 bark, small spreading branches forming a round-topped head, and 

 slender only slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange-brown and marked 

 by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light chestnut 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dull gray-brown the 

 following year, and armed with stout slightly curved chestnut brown 

 shining spines 3-3.5 cm. long. 



Rocky knoll, Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 312 

 type) May 20, 1906, October 8, 1907. 

 10. Crataegus pyramidata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 calyx-lobes. Leaves broadly ovate, acuminate and frequently long- 

 pointed at the apex, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the broad entire 

 base, coarsely often doubly serrate above, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided usually only above the middle into 3 or 4 

 pairs of short broad lobes; more than half grown when the flowers 

 open about the 20th of May and then thin, yellow-green and roughened 

 above by short white hairs and pale blue-green below, and at maturity 

 thin but firm in texture, dark yellow-green, nearly smooth and lus- 

 trous on the upper surface, pale blue-green on the lower surface, 

 5-6 cm. long and 4.5-5 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and 

 slender conspicuous primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, glandular, with conspicuous persistent glands, 

 2.5-3 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots cuneate, rounded or 

 slightly cordate at the base, coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed 

 and often 7-8 cm long and 6-7 cm. wide, with stouter broadly winged 

 more glandular petioles. Flowers 2 cm. in diameter, on long slender 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



pedicels, in wide 5- to 10-flowered corymbs, the much elongated 

 lower pedicels from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire or occasionally 

 slightly dentate above the middle, sparingly hairy on the inner sur- 

 face, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers dark rose color; 

 styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by a broad ring of long white 

 hairs. Fruit ripening late in September or early in October, on stout 

 pedicels in few-fruited spreading clusters, short-oblong or slightly 

 obovate, rounded at the ends, scarlet, lustrous, marked by large 

 pale dots, 1.1-1.3 cm. long and 1-1.1 cm. wide; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a wide shallow cavity, and spreading and appressed entire or 

 dentate lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle; flesh thick, 

 yellow, soft and succulent; nutlets 3 or 4, broad and rounded at the 

 apex, narrowed to the rounded base, ridged on the back, with a broad 

 low slightly grooved ridge, 7-8 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide, with 

 a conspicuous hypostyle often extending to below the middle of the 

 nutlet. 



A shrub 7-8 m. high, with several stems, numerous erect branches 

 forming a narrow pyramidal head, and stout zigzag branchlets dark 

 orange-green more or less tinged with red and marked by large pale 

 lenticels when they first appear, becoming in their second season 

 light chestnut brown and very lustrous, and dull gray-brown the 

 following year, and armed with occasional stout slightly curved 

 spines 2.5-3 cm. long or often unarmed. 



Glades and borders of oak woods near the Maloney Home and 

 Country Club, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, B. H. Smith 

 and C. S. Sargent, (No. 73 type) May 24, 1908, A. Twining, September 

 19 and October 10, 1909; (No. 74) A. Twining, September 29, 1908. 



This handsome species is very distinct in its remarkable fastigiate 

 habit. 

 11. Crataegus impervia n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface of 

 the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate and often long-pointed 

 at the apex, broad and rounded or abruptly cuneate at the base, 

 sharply doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and divided into 

 5 or 6 pairs of small acuminate spreading lateral lobes ; about one-third 

 grown when the flowers open in the last week of May and then yellow- 

 green, lustrous and roughened above by short soft white hairs and pale 

 below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow-green, smooth, and lustrous 

 on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 4.5-6 cm. long and 

 4.5-5 cm. wide, with stout midribs, and thin primary veins arching 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



obliquely to the points of the lobes; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 

 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker and usually 

 rounded at the base. Flowers 1.5-1.6 cm. in diameter, on long stout 

 pedicels, in rather compact 6-15-flowered corymbs, the long lower 

 peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobas gradually narrowed from the base, long, slender, acuminate, 

 entire or occasionally minutely dentate above the middle, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 5-10; anthers light rose color; styles 2 or 3. 

 Fruit ripening the end of September, on stout reddish drooping pedicels, 

 in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong to slightly obovate, full and 

 rounded at the ends, salmon-red, lustrous, marked by small pale dots, 

 1.2-1.5 cm. long and 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a deep narrow cavity pointed in the bottom, and small spreading 

 persistent lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle; flesh 

 thick, yellow, dry and bitter, nutlets 2 or 3, narrowed at the ends, 

 acute at the apex, rounded at the base, irregularly ridged on the 

 back, with a broad low slightly grooved ridge, 7-8 mm. long and 4-4.5 

 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-5 m. high, with small greenish gray smooth stems spread- 

 ing into thickets, and slender only slightly zigzag branchlets dark 

 orange-green when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown, 

 lustrous and marked by numerous pale lent icels when they first appear, 

 dull reddish brown the following year, and armed with many slender 

 slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines often pointed toward 

 the base of the branch and 1.8-3.5 cm. long. 



Hillsides, Dunmore, near Scranton, Lackawanna County. A. Twining, 

 (Xo. 25 type) May 28 and September 22, 1907. 

 12. Crataegus luxuriosa a. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves and on the calyx-lobes. Leaves oblong-ovate, 

 acuminate, gradually narrowed and cuneate or rounded at the often 

 unsymmetrical base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandu- 

 lar teeth, and slightly divided usually only above the middle into 

 3 or 4 pairs of small acute lobes; about half-grown when the flowers 

 open late in May and then thin, dark yellow-green and roughened above 

 by short white hairs and paler below, and at maturity thin, dark 

 yellow green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale bluish green on 

 the lower surface, 6-7 cm. long and 4.5-5.5 cm. wide, with slender 

 midribs and thin obscure primar} r veins ; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, occasionally glandular, with minute persistent 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



glands, 2.5-3.5 cm. in length. Flowers 1.5-1.9 cm. in diameter, 

 on short slender pedicels, in compact mostly 6-12-flowered corymbs, 

 the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire or occasionally 

 slightly dentate near the middle, glabrous on the outer surface, very 

 slightly villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 8-10; anthers bright purple-pink; styles 3-5. Fruit ripening and 

 beginning to fall early in October, on short stout pedicels, in drooping 

 usually 1-3-fruited clusters, subglobose to slightly obovate, scarlet, 

 lustrous, marked by pale dots, 1.2-1.8 cm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity pointed in the bottom, and spread- 

 ing and incurved usually persistent lobes dark red on the upper side 

 below the middle; flesh thick, yellow-green and acid; nutlets 3-5. 

 usually 4, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the 

 back, with a high broad grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long and 4.5-5 mm. 

 wide. 



An oval-headed tree 6-7 m. high, with a short trunk sometimes 

 2.5 dm. in diameter, covered with dark gray scaly bark, and stout 

 zigzag often contorted branchlets dark orange-green and marked by 

 large pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light chestnut 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dull reddish brown the 

 following year, and armed with few stout slightly curved chestnut 

 brown shining spines 2-3.5 cm. long and persistent and becoming 

 branched on old stems. 



Rich hillsides, Kittanning, Armstrong County, O. E. Jennings, 

 B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 59 type) October 7, 1906, O. E. 

 Jennings, May 27, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings, October 7, 1907; 

 flood plain of the Allegheny River in sandy soil at Whiskey Hollow, 

 opposite Kittanning, Armstrong County, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith 

 and C. S. Sargent, (No. 64) October 7, 1906, O. E. Jennings, May 27, 

 1907; Linesville, Cooper County, O. E. Jennings, (No. 82, with deep 

 rose-purple anthers), June 12 and October 9, 1907. 

 13. Crataegus reoordabilis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, gradually narrowed 

 and usually rounded, or cuneate at the entire base, finely often doubly 

 serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, and divided generally only 

 above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of small acuminate spreading lobes ; 

 more than half grown when the flowers open late in May and then thin, 

 dark yellow-green, smooth, lustrous, and slightly hairy on the mid- 

 ribs above and pale below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow-green and 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



very lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 4.5- 

 5.5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, 2.5-3 

 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots truncate or rounded at the 

 broad base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, and often 

 5-6 cm. long and broad. Flowers 1.5 cm. in diameter, on short slender 

 pedicels, in lax mostly 5-12-flowered corymbs, the long lower pedun- 

 cles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, long, narrow, acuminate, 

 entire or minutely dentate above the middle; stamens 8-10; usually 

 10; anthers dark rose color; styles 3 or 4, usually 4. Fruit ripening 

 early in October, on slender drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 narrow-obovate, full and rounded at the apex, gradually contracted to 

 the rounded base, deeply convex at the insertion of the pedicel, 

 slightly 5-angled, orange to greenish orange, becoming scarlet at 

 maturity, marked by large pale dots, pruinose 1.2-1.3 cm. long and 

 9-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity 

 pointed in the bottom, and small spreading and reflexed persistent 

 lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle; flesh thin, light 

 orange color, juic3 r , acidulous; nutlets usually 4, narrowed and rounded 

 at the ends, broader at the apex than at the base, ridged on the back, 

 with a low narrow ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A bushy tree 3 or 4 m. high, with a short trunk sometimes 1.2 dm. 

 in diameter and covered with flaky bark, small ascending gray-green 

 branches forming a round-topped head, and slender zigzag branchlets 

 dark chestnut brown when they first appear, becoming very lustrous 

 and marked by dark lenticels in their first season and dull red-brown 

 the following year, and armed with stout nearly straight chestnut- 

 brown shining spines 1.5-3.5 cm. long, persistent and becoming 

 branched on old stems. 



Hillsides, in rich soil, Kittanning, Armstrong County, O. E. Jen- 

 nings, (No. 46 type) October 14, 1905, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith 

 and C. S. Sargent, October 7, 1906, O. E. Jennings, May 27, 1907, 

 O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, October 7, 1907. 

 14. Crataegus delectata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 on the calyx-lobes. Leaves ovate, acuminate and long-pointed, abruptly 

 cuneate or rounded at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with 

 long slender glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only above 

 the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of broad acuminate spreading lobes ; more 

 than half-grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May and then 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



light yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and 

 pale and glabrous below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow-green, 

 smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, pale bluish green on the 

 lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, with thin very promi- 

 nent midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 usually rounded or sometimes cuneate at the base, more coarsely 

 serrate, more deeply lobed and often 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide, 

 with stout petioles broad-winged nearly to the middle and often 

 glandular with persistent glands. Flowers 1.5 cm. in diameter, on 

 long slender pedicels, in wide lax mostly 7-12-flowered corymbs, the 

 much elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, 

 long, slender, acuminate, minutely glandular-serrate, slightly villose 

 on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 6—10; anthers 

 light rose color; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening the end of September, 

 on slender reddish pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, obovate, full and 

 rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed to the base, crimson, lus- 

 trous, marked by small pale dots, 1.2-1.5 cm. long and about 1 cm. 

 in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a wide shallow cavity, and 

 small closely appressed lobes dark red on the upper side below the 

 middle; flesh thin, yellow, soft and succulent; nutlets 3 or 4, gradually 

 narrowed and acute at the ends but rather broader at the base than 

 at the apex, ridged on the back, with a low grooved ridge, 6-7 mm. 

 long and about 3 mm. wide. 



A broad shrub sometimes 6 m. high, with numerous stems often 

 1 dm. in diameter and covered with scaly bark, spreading branches, 

 and slender slightly zigzag branchlets light chestnut brown, lustrous 

 and marked by numerous dark lenticels in their first season and still 

 lustrous in the second year, and armed with slender slightly curved 

 chestnut brown shining spines 4.5-5 cm. long, and persistent on the 

 stems. 



Keyser Valley, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A Twining, 

 (No. 54 type) September 30, 1907, May 23 and September 23, 1908. 

 15. Crataegus infensa n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 calyx-lobes. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly concave-cuneate 

 or rounded at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acumin- 

 ate lateral lobes ; nearly half grown when the flowers open about the 

 middle of May and then thick, dark yellow-green and slightly hairy 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



on the midribs above and pale below, and at maturity thin, dark 

 yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the 

 lower surface, 3.5-4 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs 

 and primary veins ; petioles slender, occasionally glandular, with minute 

 sometimes persistent glands, 1.5-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots cordate or truncate at the broad base, more coarsely serrate, 

 more deeply lobed, often 5-6 cm. long and broad, with stout midribs, 

 prominent primary veins, and stout winged conspicuously glandular 

 petioles. Flowers 1.6-1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, 

 in compact mostly 6-12-flowered corymbs, the elongated lower pedun- 

 cles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes short, broad, acuminate, minutely glandular-dentate near the 

 middle, glabrous on the outer surface, slightly villose on the inner 

 surface, reflexed after arithesis; petals often tinged with pink; stamens 

 10; filaments pink; anthers purplish pink; styles 3 or 4, usually 4. 

 Fruit ripening in October, on short red drooping pedicels, in few- 

 fruited clusters, short-obovate, nearly truncate at the apex, gradually 

 narrowed, long and rounded at the base, scarlet, marked by large pale 

 dots, slightl} r pruinose, 9-12 mm. long and 1.2-1.6 mm. wide; calyx 

 little enlarged, with a short tube, a wide shallow cavity tomentose in 

 the bottom, and small spreading usually deciduous lobes; flesh thin, 

 yellow-green, and succulent; nutlets usually 4, gradually narrowed 

 and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, with a broad high grooved 

 ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 4.5 mm. wide. 



A small tree 4 m. high, with a trunk 1.5-2 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with gray scaly bark, wide-spreading branches forming a 

 broad flat-topped head, and stout nearly straight branchlets dark 

 orange-green sometimes tinged with red and marked by large pale 

 lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown or 

 purple and lustrous in their first season and dull red-brown the follow- 

 ing year, and armed with numerous very stout straight purple shining 

 spines 3-4.5 cm. long and persistent and much-branched on old stems. 



Charleroi, Washington County, O. E. Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer. 

 (No. 35) October 7, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 21, 1906, May 21 and 

 October 14, 1907. 

 16. Crataegus vegrandis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly cuneate or 

 rounded at the entire base, finely often doubly serrate above, with 

 straight or incurved glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 3 or 

 4 pairs of narrow acuminate lobes; more than half-grown when the 




203 



J9K).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



flowers open in the last week of May and then slightly tinged with red 

 very thin yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and 

 pale below, and at maturity thin but firm in texture, dark yellow- 

 green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale bluish green on the lower 

 surface 3.5-4.5 cm. long and 2.5-3.5 cm. wide, with thin prominent 

 yellow midribs and veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined 

 at the apex, 2.5-3 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, 

 usually rounded at the broad base, frequently abruptly pointed at the 

 apex more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, and often 5-6 cm. 

 loner and wide. Floivers 1.5 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, 

 in crowded 5-15-flowered corymbs, with oblong-obovate to linear 

 olandular bracts and bractlets fading brown and often persistent until 

 after the flowers open, the elongated lower peduncles from the axils 

 of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes separated by 

 wide sinuses, gradually narrowed from the base, long, slender, acumin- 

 ate finely glandular-serrate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 5-10; anthers rose color; styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the 

 base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening about 

 the 20th of September, on slender drooping red pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, obovate, rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed from above 

 the middle to the base, scarlet, lustrous, marked by large pale dots 

 9-10 mm long and 7-9 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with 

 a broad shallow cavity, and small spreading and appressed lobes dark 

 red on the upper side below the middle; flesh thin, yellow, soft and 

 juicy nutlets 3 or 4, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, 

 sometimes broader at the base than at the apex, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad low grooved ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide 

 A shrub 3-4 m high, with small erect stems and branches covered 

 with yellow-green bark, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets dark 

 orange-green when they first appear, becoming bright chestnut 

 brown lustrous and marked by small pale lenticels in their first season 

 and dull red-brown the following year, and armed with numerous 

 slender slightly curved chestnut brown shining ultimately dark gray 

 spines 3.5-4.5 cm. long, persistent and becoming branched on old 



stems 



Border of woods, Maloney Home, near Scranton, Lackawanna 

 County, A. Twining, (No. 31 type) May 28 and September 23, 190.. 



17. Crataegus radina n. »p. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the youno- leaves. Leaves ovate to broad-obovate, acuminate and 

 long-pointed at the apex, gradually or abruptly cuneate at the entire 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



base, sharply often doubly serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, 

 and slightly divided often only above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of 

 narrow acuminate lobes; very thin, dark yellow-green and furnished 

 with occasional hairs on the upper side of the midribs and paler below 

 when the flowers open about the middle of May; petioles slender, 

 wing-margined at the apex, sparingly glandular, 2-3 cm. in length; 

 mature leaves not seen. Flowers 1.5-1.8 cm. in diameter, on long 

 slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 4-7-flowered corymbs, 

 the long lower peduncles from the axils of small narrow acuminate 

 deciduous leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, 

 acuminate, finely glandular-serrate, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 8-10, usually 10; anthers pale pink; styles 3-5, Fruit ripening and 

 falling early in October, on short slender pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, globose to slightly obovate, rounded at the apex, 5-angled, 

 yellow-green to dark purplish red, marked by small dark dots, pruinose, 

 becoming lustrous, 1.2-1.4 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a broad shallow cavity, and spreading lobes; flesh pale 

 greenish yellow, solid, juicy, acidulous; nutlets 3-5, narrowed and 

 rounded at the ends, broader at the base than at the apex, slightly 

 ridged on the back, 6-6.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A tree 3-4 m. high, with a trunk sometimes 1 dm. in diameter 

 and covered with dark gray scaly bark, ascending and spreading 

 branches forming a round-topped head, and slender nearly straight 

 branchlets, dark green and marked by pale lenticels when they first 

 appear, becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first 

 season and dull reddish brown the following year, and armed with 

 numerous very slender slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 

 1.5-3.5 cm. long and persistent and much-branched on old stems. 



Ravines, Schenley Park, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, (No. 4 type) September 28, 1905, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, 

 May 20 and October 18, 1907, O. E. Jennings, October 3, 1908, May 

 24, 1909. 



No. 20 from the same locality (O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, September 25, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 18, 1906, 

 June 12 and October 3, 1908, May 24, 1909) with 12-20 stamens does 

 not appear to differ in other characters from C. radina. The fruit, 

 however, of No. 20 has not been collected. No. 57 from the same 

 locality (O. E. Jennings, May 23, 1906, September 13, 1909) has the 

 same general appearance and belongs probably also to the same 

 species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



18. Crataegus laetans n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, rounded or 

 abruptly cuneate at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with 

 slender straight glandular teeth, and deeply divided usually only 

 above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of narrow acuminate spreading or 

 reflexed lobes; nearly half-grown when the flowers open about the 

 middle of May and then thin, light yellow-green and slightly roughened 

 above by short white hairs and paler below, and at maturity thin, 

 dark blue-green, lustrous and scabrate on the upper surface, pale 

 bluish green on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 2.5-4 cm. wide, 

 with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly 

 wing-margined at the apex, glandular, with occasional minute usually 

 deciduous glands, 2-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 thicker, rounded at the base, coarsely serrate, deeply divided into 

 4 or 5 pairs of acute lateral lobes and often 6-7 cm. long and wide. 

 Flowers 1.2-1.3 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in small 

 compact mostly 6-12-flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire, reflexed after anthesis ; stamens 

 10; anthers deep rose color; styles 2-4, surrounded at the base by a 

 narrow ring of pale hairs. Fruit ripening early in October and per- 

 sistent until after the leaves have fallen, on slender drooping pedicels, 

 in mostly 6-9-fruited clusters, obovate or rarely short-oblong, flattened 

 or slightly depressed at the apex and rounded at the narrow base, 

 sometimes 3-5-angled, dark orange-red, slightly pruinose, marked by 

 numerous pale dots, 1.1-1.3 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading often persistent lobes 

 dark red on the upper side below the middle; flesh thick, rather succu- 

 lent, greenish yellow, acidulous; nutlets usually 3 or 4, rounded at the 

 apex, acute at the base, ridged on the back, with a low grooved ridge, 

 5-5.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with smooth stems covered with dark gray 

 scaly bark, and slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green 

 when they first appear, becoming dark orange-brown, lustrous and 

 marked by dark lenticels in their first season and dull reddish brown 

 the following year, and armed with slender straight or slightly curved 

 chestnut brown shining spines 2-3 cm. long and occasionally per- 

 sistent and becoming branched on old stems. 



Nine-mile Run, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 0. E. and Grace K. 

 Jennings, (No. 68 type) May 17, 1907, O. E. Jennings and B. H. Smith, 

 October 5, 1907. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



19. Crataegus ruricola n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hail's on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves broad-ovate, acuminate, gradually 

 narrowed and rounded or cuneate at the often unsymmetrical base, 

 coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and deeply 

 divided into 4 or 5 pairs of narrow acuminate spreading often recurved 

 lobes; tinged with red when they unfold, about one-third grown when 

 the flowers open early in May and then thin, yellow-green and rough- 

 ened above by short white hairs, and at maturity thin, dark yellow- 

 green and scabrate on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 

 5-8 cm. long and 3.5-6 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, 2.5-4 cm. in 

 length. Flowers on short stout pedicels, in small compact 4-8-, 

 usually 4 or 5-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils 

 of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from the base, long, slender, acuminate, entire or minutely 

 dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 8-10; anthers 

 pale pink; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening and falling early in October, 

 on long slender pedicels, in few-fruited drooping clusters, obovate, 

 full and rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed to the rounded 

 base, scarlet, about 1.5 cm. long and broad; calyx little enlarged, with 

 a short tube, a deep narrow cavity, and spreading lobes; flesh yellow, 

 juicy; nutlets 3 or 4, broad and rounded at the apex, narrowed and 

 acute at the base, ridged on the back, with a broad groove ridpe, 

 5.5-6 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1.2-1.5 m. high, with small stems, and slender zigzag branch- 

 lets dark orange-green when they first appear, becoming light orange- 

 brown, lustrous and marked by dark lenticels in their first season, 

 and armed with numerous stout or slender straight or slightly curved 

 chestnut brown spines 3.5-5 cm. long. 



Chadsford, Delaware County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 

 250 type) October 3, 1904, B. H. Smith, May 6 and September 13, 1905, 

 October 8, 1908. 



20. Crataegus effera n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the leaves. Leaves broad-ovate, acute or acuminate, rounded 

 or abruptly cuneate at the wide base, finely often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and divided usually only above the 

 middle into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad lobes ; nearly half-grown when 

 the flowers open late in May and then yellow-green and roughened 

 above by short white hairs and glabrous below, and at maturity thick, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



dark bluish green, scabrate or nearly smooth on the upper surface, pale 

 on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 4-4.5 cm. wide, with slender 

 prominent midribs and primary veins; petioles stout, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, glandular, with usually persistent glands, 2.5-3 

 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, usually rounded 

 at the base and often 6-7 cm. long and wide, with stout winged con- 

 spicuously glandular petioles. Flowers 2 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels in 7- or 8-flowered corymbs ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes long, slender, acuminate, entire or minutely dentate near the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 7 or 8; anthers dark rose color; styles 

 3 or 4. Fruit ripening early in October, on slender drooping pedicels, 

 in few-fruited clusters, obovate, full and rounded at the apex, slightly 

 narrowed to the rounded base, orange-red, marked by small pale dots, 

 1-1.2 mm. long and broad; calyx little enlarged, with a deep narrow 

 cavity pointed in the bottom, and small spreading and closely appressed 

 lobes dull red on the upper side below the middle; flesh thin, dry and 

 hard; nutlets 4 or 5, rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed and 

 rounded at the base, rounded and slightly grooved on the back, 6.5-7 

 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub sometimes 5 m. high, with stout stems covered with dark 

 scaly bark, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets dark dull chestnut 

 brown and marked by small pale lenticels in their first season and 

 dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with very stout nearly 

 straight purplish spines 2.5-3 cm. long. 



Country Club, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 

 44 type) October 4, 1907, May 24 and September 19, 1908, B. H. 

 Smith, A. Twining and C. S. Sargent, May 24, 1908; Taylor's Hill, 

 near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 43) June 8, 1907. 

 21. Crataegus coerulea n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate to oval, acuminate, abruptly or 

 gradually narrowed and rounded or cuneate at the base, finely often 

 doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided 

 into 4 or 5 pairs of narrow acuminate lateral lobes; deeply tinged 

 with red when they unfold, about one-half grown when the flowers 

 open at the end of May and then thin, dark bluish green, smooth 

 and slightly hairy above, with short soft hairs, and paler below, 

 and at maturity thin, dark blue-green and smooth on the upper 

 surface, pale blue-green on the lower surface, 3-4 cm. long and 

 2.5-3.5 cm. wide; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the 

 apex, glandular, with minute usually deciduous glands, 1-1.3 cm. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



in length; leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate and rounded 

 at the base to rhombic, often 4-5 cm. long and 3.5-5 cm. wide, with 

 stout glandular petioles broad-winged to below the middle. Flowers 

 1.5 cm. in diameter, on slender pedicels, in compact 5-10-flowered 

 corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, 

 slender, acuminate, entire or minutely and irregularly glandular- 

 dentate, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5; anthers light rose color; 

 styles 2-4, surrounded at the base by a broad ring of pale tomentum. 

 Fruit ripening late in September, on slender pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, obovate, bright orange-red, lustrous, marked by small pale 

 dots. 1-1.2 cm. long and broad; calyx little enlarged, with a wide 

 shallow cavity, and spreading persistent lobes; flesh yellow, thin, and 

 solid; nutlets 2-4. acute at the ends, ridged on the back, with a high 

 narrow grooved ridge, about 5 mm. long and 3 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-2.5 m. high, with stems covered with smooth gray bark, 

 and very slender slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange-green when 

 they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown, lustrous and marked 

 by small dark lenticels in their first season and dull reddish brown 

 the following year, and armed with stout recurved chestnut brown 

 shining spines 2.5-3.5 cm. long. 



Lincoln Heights, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 4 type and No. 5), May 31 and September 25, 1907, (No. 45) 

 September 20, 1907, May 1908; Keyser Valley, near Scranton, A. Twin- 

 ing, (No. 16, with larger fruit) May 25 and October 1, 1907, September, 

 1908. 



5. Tenuifolle. 



Leaves thin, hairy on the upper surface early in the season, glabrous 

 at maturity (scrabrate in No. 10), usually yellow-green; petioles 

 long and slender. Flowers in glabrous corymbs; stamens 10 or 

 less (in the following species) ; anthers rose color or pink. Fruit 

 short-oblong to obovate, scarlet, lustrous, ripening in September; 

 flesh soft and succulent ; mature calyx small and sessile ; nutlets 2-4. 

 Calyx cavity of the fruit deep and narrow; fruit short-oblong to 

 slightly obovate, usually about 1.2 cm. long and 1 cm. wide. 

 Petioles rarely more than 2 cm. in length. 



Flowers up to 1.8 cm. in diameter; anthers dark rose color. 



1. C. tenella. 

 Flowers not more than 1.2 cm. in diameter; anthers light rose 



color 2. C. angustisepala. 



Petioles more than 2 cm. in length. 



Corymbs S-12-flowered; fruit short-oblong to slightly obovate. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Lobes of the leaves in 4 or 5 pairs. 



Lobes of the leaves narrow, long-pointed. .3. C. glaueophylla. 



Lobes of the leaves short, acuminate 4. C. insolita. 



Lobes of the leaves in 6 or 7 pail's, small and spreading. 



5. C. flammata. 

 Corymbs 4- or 5-flowered; lobes of the leaves long, narrow, 



spreading or recurved 6. C. siderea. 



Calyx cavity of the fruit wide and shallow. 

 Leaves smooth. 



Lobes of the leaves long, spreading, often recurved; fruit 



obovate, becoming oval when fully ripe 7. C. rafipes. 



Lobes of the leaves small and spreading; fruit short -oblong ; 



leaves blue-green 8. C. antheina. 



Lobes of the leaves narrow, acuminate, usually pointing 

 toward the apex of the leaf; fruit short-oblong. 



9. C. propensa. 

 Leaves scabrate on the upper surface; fruit pruinose. 



10. C. Heidelbergensis. 



1. Crataegus tenella Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. 3, 338 (1902); Sargent, Bot, Gazette, XXXV, 

 10S (The Genus Crataegus in Newcastle County, Delaware); Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905,^608. 



Roadsides and fields between Stroudsburg and Tannersville, Monroe 

 County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (Nos. 1, 3 and 6) May 22, 

 1908, B. H. Smith, September 19, 1908; near Scranton, Lackawanna 

 County, A. Twining, (No. 24) October 3, 1907, May 24, 190*8; Dunmore, 

 near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 20) October 3, 1907, May 24, 1908; 

 valley of the Little Juniata River below Altoona, Blair County, B. H. 

 Smith, (No. 260) May 20, 1905; valley of the Conemaugh between 

 Wilmore and Portage, Blair County, B. H. Smith, (No. 271) May 21, 

 1905, May 17, 1906, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 26, 1905, 

 (No. 274) B. H. Smith, May 21, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 September 26, 1905; near Wilmore, Blair County, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 274+) September 26, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 17, 

 1906; also eastern Pennsylvania and northern Delaware. 



No. 210 from near Kutztown resembles C. tenella in its fruit; the 

 leaves are somewhat thicker and darker green, and the flowers are 

 more cup-shaped. This plant grows on hillsides, while C. tenella in 

 this region is usually found only on low ground. 



2. Crataegus angustisepala n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves obovate to oval or ovate, acuminate 

 and long-pointed at the apex, cuneate at the base, finely often doubly 

 14 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



serrate, with straight or incurved glandular teeth, and very slightly 

 divided usually only above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of narrow 

 acuminate lobes; about half-grown when the flowers open late in May 

 and then yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and 

 pale below, and at maturity very thin, dark yellow-green and smooth 

 on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 3-4 cm. long and 2.5-3 

 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; pedioles slender, 

 slightly wing-margined at the apex, glabrous, with small scattered 

 often persistent glands, 1.2-1.8 cm. in length. Flowers 1-1.2 cm. in 

 diameter, on long very slender pedicels, in small mostly 6-8-flowered 

 corymbs, with small linear-obovate to linear glandular bracts and 

 bractlets often persistent until the flowers open, the long lower pedun- 

 cles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobes long, very slender, acuminate, entire or minutely glandular- 

 dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis ; stamens 5-10 ; anthers 

 light rose color; styles 3. Fruit ripening about the 20th of September, 

 on slender red pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong to slightly 

 obovate, full and rounded at the ends, scarlet, lustrous, 1.2-1.3 cm. 

 long and about 1 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a deep 

 narrow cavity, and small spreading lobes dark red on the upper side 

 below the middle; flesh thin, yellow, soft and juicy; nutlets 3, gradually 

 narrowed and rounded at the ends or acute at the apex, ridged on the 

 back, with a broad low grooved ridge, 5-6.5 mm. long and 3-3.5 mm. 

 wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with slender stems covered with smooth 

 pale gray bark and spreading into thickets, and slender zigzag branch- 

 lets, bright green when they first appear, becoming light chestnut- 

 brown, lustrous and marked by small pale lenticels in their first 

 season and dull red-brown the following year, and armed with numer- 

 ous slender straight or curved chestnut-brown spines 2-3 cm. long. 



Low moist soil in meadows, Throop, near Scranton, Lackawanna 

 County, A. Twining, (No. 21 type and No. 22) May 24 and September 

 22, 1907; near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 23) May 24, 1907, September 

 29, 1908; Dunmore, near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 27) May 28, 

 1907, September 20, 1908; near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 53) Septem- 

 ber, 1907; Chinchilla, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 65) 

 October 3, 1907. 



No. 28 from Dunmore with larger flowers, 5-10 stamens and larger 

 fruit, provisionally referred to this species, is perhaps distinct. A. 

 Twining, May 28 and September 27, 1907. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



3. Crataegus glaucophylla Sargent. 



Rhodora, V, 1-40 (1903); Proe. Rochester Acad. Sci., IV, 12; Bull. Michigan 

 State Board Geolog. Surv., 1906, 536; No. 4, Ontario Nat. Sci. Bull., 36; 

 Bull. CXXII, N. Y. State Mus., 102. 



Charleroi, Washington County, O. E. Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer, 

 (No. 37) October 7, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 21 and October 14, 

 1907; near Hillside Station, Westmoreland County, O. E. Jennings, 

 (No. 77) May 25, 1907, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, September 16, 

 1909; also western New England, western New York and through 

 southern Ontario to southern Michigan. 



4. Crataegus insolita Sargent. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 622. 



Berks County, woods beyond reservoir on hill, near Kutztown, 

 C. L. Gruber, (No. 140) May 15, 1906; North Heidelberg Township, 

 C. L. Gruber, (No. 181) September 8, 1906; Lackawanna County, 

 Lincoln Heights, Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 2) May 31, 1907, Septem- 

 ber 27, 1908; Keyser Valley, Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 11) May 27 

 and October 1, 1907; Virginia near Scranton, A. Twining, (No. 40) 

 May 29, 1907; also in Delaware County. 



5. Crataegus flammata n. sp. 



Leaves ovate, acuminate and long-pointed at the apex, rounded, 

 abruptly cuneate or slightly cordate at the base, finely often doubly 

 serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and divided into 6 or 7 pairs 

 of small acuminate spreading lateral lobes; nearly half grown when 

 the flowers open about the 20th of May and then very thin, yellow- 

 green and roughened above by short white hairs and pale blue-green 

 below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green, smooth and glabrous on the 

 upper surface, 5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs 

 and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the 

 apex, glandular, with minute often persistent glands, 2.5-4.5 cm. in 

 length. Flower's 1.5 cm. in diameter, on slender pedicels, in mostly 

 7-10-flowered corymbs, the long lower peduncles from the axils of 

 upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed 

 from wide bases, acuminate and red at the apex, minutely glandular- 

 serrate below the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-8; anthers 

 dark rose color; styles 2-4, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring- 

 of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening in September and persisting late 

 into October, on short slender reddish pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 short oblong, full and rounded at the ends, scarlet, lustrous, marked 

 by occasional small pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and 8-10 mm. in diameter ; 

 calyx little enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle; flesh yellow, sweet 

 and of pleasant flavor; nutlets 2-4, gradually narrowed and rounded 

 at the ends, ridged on the back, with a low slightly grooved ridge, 

 5-6 nun. long and 3-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with small erect stems covered with green- 

 gray bark, and slender only slightly zigzag branchlets, dull chestnut 

 brown and marked by large pale lenticels in their first season and 

 dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with stout light brown 

 ultimately gray spines 2.5-3 cm. long. 



Woods. Birdseye, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 61 type) October 23, 1907. 

 C. Crataegus siderea d. bp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate to oval or obovate, acuminate, 

 gradually or abruptly narrowed to the entire base, finely doubly 

 serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, and deeply divided often 

 only above the middle into long narrow spreading or recurved acumin- 

 ate lobes, about half-grown when the flowers open the middle of May 

 and then very thin, yellow-green, and covered above by short white 

 hairs and pale and glabrous below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green 

 and scabrate on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 4-6 cm. 

 long and 3-4 cm. wide, with slender midribs, and thin obscure primary 

 veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, 2-2.5 

 cm. in length. Flowers 1 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, 

 in small 4- or 5-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils 

 of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, slender, 

 acuminate, entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 7-9, usually 8; 

 anthers rose color; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening late in September, 

 on long slender pedicels, in drooping clusters, obovate, gradually 

 narrowed to the long base, light yellow-green, becoming dark red 

 when fully ripe, marked by small dark dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and 9-10 

 mm. in diameter near the rounded apex; calyx little enlarged, with a 

 short tube, a deep narrow cavity pointed and tomentose in the bottom, 

 and reflexed closely appressed lobes; flesh thin, dry and mealy; nutlets 

 3 or 4, narrowed and rounded at the ends, rounded and slightly ridged 

 on the back, 5-5.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with small stems, and slender zigzag branchlets 

 dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and 

 dull red-brown the following year, and armed with numerous slender 

 straight or slightly curved chestnut brown spines 2-3 cm. long. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Hill above Panther Hollow. Schenley Park, Pittsburg-. Allegheny 

 County, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, (No. 70 type) May 17, 1907, 

 O. E. Jennings. September 4, 1908, September 13, 1909. 



7. Crataegus rufipes Ashe. 



Jour. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc, XX, 51 (1904); Sargent, Proc. Acad. Nat, 

 Sci. Phila., 1905, 609. 



Keyser Valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, B. H. Smith and 



A. Twining, (Xo. 66) May 23, 190S, A. Twining. September 14, 1908, 

 (No. 57) A. Twining, October 22, 1907. September 23, 190S; borders 

 of woods, Shady Valley Road, near Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, 



B. H. Smith. (No. 318) May 20, 1906, October 8, 1907, (No. 310) May 

 20, 1906. May 27 and October 8, 1907, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 May 27, 1908; meadows near Altoona, Blair County, B. H. Smith and 



C. S. Sargent, (No. 291) September 25, 1905; near Hillside Station, 

 Westmoreland County, O. E. Jennings, (No. 76) May 25, 1907. O. E. 

 and Grace'K. Jennings, September 16, 1908; also in Berks and Bucks 

 Counties. 



8. Crataegus antheina n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly cuneate or 

 rounded at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acuminate spreading 

 lateral lobes; less than half grpwn when the flowers open about 

 the 10th of May and then thin, bluish green and roughened above 

 by small white hairs, and at maturity thin, dark blue-green, smooth 

 and lustrous on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 4.5- 

 6.5 cm. long and 3-4.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins ; 

 petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular, with 

 often persistent glands, 1.5-3 cm. in length. Flowers 1.6-2 cm, 

 in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in 5-10-flowered corymbs, the 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, minutely glandular- 

 serrate or sometimes entire, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-8; 

 anthers dark rose color; styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by 

 a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening the end of September, 

 on long slender drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short- 

 oblong, full and rounded at the apex, gradually or abruptly narrowed 

 at the base, scarlet, marked by small pale dots, slightly glaucous, 

 1-1.3 cm, long and 9-12 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with 

 a wide shallow cavity, and spreading and reflexed often deciduou.^ 

 lobes; flesh thin, yellow, rather juicy; nutlets 3 or 4, narrowed at 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



the apex, broader and rounded at the base, ridged on the back, with 

 a broad low doubly grooved ridge 7-7.5 mm. long 4-4.5 mm. wide, 

 with a prominent hypostyle extending to below the middle of the 

 nutlet. 



A shrub, with slender zigzag branchlets light orange-green and 

 marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light 

 orange-brown in their first season and darker-colored the following 

 year, and armed with numerous slender slightfy curved light red- 

 brown spines 2-4.5 cm. long. 



Borders of woods near West Leesport, Bucks County, C.L. Gruber, 

 (No. 219 A type) September 29, 1905, May 13 and September 15, 

 1906, October 3, 1909. 

 9. Crataegus propensa n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young loaves and on the calyx-lobes. Leaves oblong-ovate, 

 acuminate, rounded or cuneate at the base, finely often doubly ser- 

 rate, with straight glandular teeth, and divided into 5 or 6 pairs of 

 narrow acuminate lobes usually pointing toward the apex of the leaf; 

 more than half-grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May 

 and then dark yellow-green, lustrous and slightly roughened above 

 by short white hairs and pale bluish green below, and at maturity very 

 thin, yellow-green, smooth, glabrous and lustrous on the upper surface, 

 paler on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thin 

 midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined 

 at the apex, often rose color in the autumn, 2-2.5 cm. in length. 

 Flowers l.S cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in wide lax 

 mostly 9-12-flowered corymbs, the elongated lower peduncles from the 

 axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from wide bases, long, slender, acuminate, entire, very 

 slightly hairy on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 6-10 ; anthers dark rose color; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening the middle 

 of September, on elongated pedicels, in few-fruited drooping clusters, 

 short-oblong, full and rounded at the ends, scarlet, lustrous, marked 

 by small pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. long and 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx 

 little enlarged, with a wide deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and 

 spreading and appressed lobes dark red on the upper side below the 

 middle, their tips often deciduous from the ripe fruit; flesh yellow, 

 thick, soft and succulent; nutlets 3 or 4, rounded at the apex, acute 

 at the base, only slightly ridged and occasionally grooved on the back, 

 about 7 mm. long and 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 4-5 m. high, with numerous stems sometimes 12-15 cm. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



in diameter, and slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green 

 more or less tinged with red and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming light chestnut red and lustrous in their first 

 season and dull red-brown or gray the following year, and armed with 

 occasional straight very stout gray spines 1.5-2 cm. long. 



Hillsides, Keyser Valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twin- 

 ing, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 68 type) May 23, 1908, 

 A. Twining, September 14, 1908, (No. 12) A. Twining, September 

 23, 1908. 

 10. Crataegus heidelbergensis n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate and long- 

 pointed at the apex, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the wide base, 

 finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and rather 

 deeply divided into 3-6, usually 5, pairs of narrow acuminate spreading 

 lobes; nearly half-grown when the flowers open from the 10th to the 

 middle of May and then light yellow-green and roughened above by 

 short white hairs and pale below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow- 

 green and scabrate on the upper surface, pale bluish green on the 

 lower surface, 4-6.5 cm. long and 2.5-4 cm. wide, with thin conspic- 

 uous midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 usually rounded at the base, more coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed 

 and often 7-8 cm. long and 6 cm. wide. Flowers 1.4-1.7 cm. in 

 diameter, on long slender pedicels, in lax usually 6-12-flowered 

 corymbs, the long lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; 

 calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the 

 base, linear, acuminate and red at the apex, entire or minutely glan- 

 dular-dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-8, 

 rarely 9; anthers purple; styles 2-5, usually 3 or 4, surrounded at the 

 base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening the end of 

 August and falling early in September, on long slender pedicels, in 

 few-fruited clusters, obovate or rarely short-oblong to subglobose, 

 scarlet frequently blotched with russet, marked by small pale dots, 

 occasionally slightly pruinose, 1.2-1.7 cm. long and 1.2-1.5 cm. thick; 

 calyx little enlarged, with a broad deep cavity tomentose in the 

 bottom, and spreading and appressed generally persistent lobes dark 

 red on the upper side below the middle; flesh orange-yellow slightly 

 tinged with red, soft and acid; nutlets usually 3 or 4, rounded at the 

 apex, acute at the base, rounded and slightly grooved or ridged on 

 the back, 5.5-6 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with numerous large angular iidged stems 

 and branches covered with dark gray bark and usually spreading into 

 thickets, and slender zigzag branchlets dark olive-green tinged with 

 red when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown, very lus- 

 trous and marked by pale lenticels in their first season and olive- 

 brown to red-brown the following year, and armed with numerous 

 stout straight or slightly curved light chestnut brown shining spines 

 2.5-5 cm. long. 



Dry gravelly soil, Forge Hill, North Heidelberg Township, near 

 Kutztown, Berks County, common; C. L. Gruber, (No. 173 type) 

 May 12 and September S, 1902; border of stony upland woods about 

 three miles north of Kutztown, C. L. Gruber, (Nos. 203 and 237) 

 May 15, August 1 and September 6, 1906. 



6. Molles. 



Leaves thin, broad, cuneate or rounded at the base; petioles long; 

 flowers large, in many-flowered corymbs; fruit subglobose or 

 obovate. scarlet, more or less pubescent at the ends, up to 2.5 

 cm. in diameter, with thick succulent flesh ; nutlets 3-5, narrowed 

 at the ends, only slightly ridged; stamens in the following species 

 usually 10; anthers pink or rose color. 



Crataegus pennsylvanica Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. Ill, 394 (1902). 



Leaves ovate, acuminate, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the base, 

 coarsely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and 

 slightly divided into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad acuminate lobes; 

 slightly tinged with red when they unfold, more than half-grown when 

 the flowers open the middle of May and then thin, dark yellow-green 

 and roughened above by short white hairs and villose on the midribs 

 and veins below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow-green and scabrate 

 on the upper surface, paler, scabrate and still somewhat villose on 

 the stout midribs and primary veins, 6.5-8 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide; 

 petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, villose through 

 the season, occasionally glandular, 3-3.5 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots rounded or truncate at the base, very coarsely ser- 

 rate, more deeply lobed, often 10-12 cm. long and broad, with stout 

 midribs, prominent primary veins, conspicuously glandular petioles, 

 and large foliaceous lunate coarsely glandular-serrate persistent 

 stipules. Flowers 1.8-2 cm. in diameter, on slender densely villose 

 pedicels, in broad lax hairy mostly 8-15-flowered corymbs, with 

 oblong-obovate to linear-obovate glandular bracts and bractlets, the 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube 

 narrowly obconic, covered with long white hairs, the lobes long, 

 slender, acuminate, laciniately glandular-serrate, glabrous on the 

 outer surface, villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 8-12; anthers faintly tinged with pink; styles 3-5. Fruit 

 ripening and falling early in October, on short stout drooping slightly 

 hairy pedicels, in 4-12-fruited clusters, short-obovate, full and 

 rounded at the apex, bright orange-red marked by small pale dots, 

 puberulous at the ends, 1.8-2.5 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged^ 

 with a deep narrow cavity wide and tomentose in the bottom, and small 

 spreading lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle, their 

 tips often deciduous from the ripe fruit; flesh thick, orange-yellow, 

 somewhat acidulous, fragrant, edible, sometimes made into jelly; 

 nutlets 3-5, rounded at the apex, acute at the base, rounded and 

 slightly grooved or ridged on the back, the conspicuous hypostyle 

 extending to the middle of the nutlet, about 8 mm. long and 5 mm, 

 wide. 



A tree sometimes 10 m. high, with a tall trunk often 4 dm. in 

 diameter, covered with dark gray scaly bark, large spreading branches 

 forming a wide symmetrical round-topped head, and stout slightly 

 zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and more or less tinged with red 

 when the}- first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown, marked by 

 large dark lenticels and more or less pubescent in their first season, 

 dark red-brown the following year, and armed with stout straight or 

 slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 3-4 cm. long. 



Meadows, in low moist soil, near Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 

 common; J. A. Shafer, Stowe Township, near Turner Station, October 

 3. 1901, J. A. Shafer and W. W. Ashe, October, 1901; near Pittsburg, 

 (type tree) 0. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 

 28, 1905; Riverview Park, Allegheny City, Allegheny County, O. E. 

 Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 30) October 2, 1905, O. E. Jen- 

 nings. May 24, 1906, May 20, September 14 and October 14, 1907, 

 O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 23) September 

 25, 1905, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, May 18, 1907, O. E. Jennings, 

 September 22, 1907. 



Specimens of a species in this group collected in the valley of the 

 Conemaugh between Portage and Wilmore, in Cambria. County, by 

 Mr. B. H. Smith, (No. 276) May 21, 1905, and May 17, 1906, is probably 

 C. Ellwangeriana Sargent. The specimens show the peculiar stipules 

 of that species, but without the fruit this determination is only pro- 

 visional, and it has been impossible to obtain fruit from this tree 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



as in 1905 and 1906 insects destroyed the flowers as soon as they 

 opened. 



7. Coccixe.e. 



Leaves large, thin, oblong, acutely and more or less deeply lobed; 

 petioles long; flowers in usually wide many-flowered corymbs; 

 anthers pink, rose color or purple ; fruit subglobose, short-oblong, 

 obovate or oval, scarlet, 1-2.2 cm. long; flesh succulent; nutlets 

 3-5, prominently grooved, and usually ridged on the back; 

 stamens in the following species usually less than 10. (Coccinece, 

 Loudon, Arb. Brit., II, 816 [1838]; Eggleston, Gray Man., ed. 

 ^ 7, 473. Flabellatce, Sargent, Rhodora, III, 22 [1901].) 

 Fruit subglobose to short-oblong. 



Flowers not more than 1.6 cm. in diameter, on short densely 



villose pedicels ; fruit 1-1.2 cm. in diameter 1. C. Burkeana. 



Flowers up to 2.2 cm. in diameter, on long only slightly hairy 



pedicels; fruit 1.4-1.9 cm. long 2. C. sejuncta. 



Fruit depressed-globose to slightly obovate 3. C. pedicellate/,. 



Fruit obovate or oval. 



Flowers not cup-shaped, in small compact 8-1 2-flowered corymbs; 



leaves broadly ovate; fruit obovate 4. C. cristata. 



Flowers cup-shaped, in broad many-flowered corymbs; leaves 

 oval to ovate; fruit oval 5. C. Holmcsiana. 



1. Crataegus Burkeana n. sp. 



Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, abruptly cuneate or rounded 

 at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acute lateral 

 lobes ; nearly half-grown when the flowers open about the 10th of May 

 and then thin, light yellow-green and roughened above by short white 

 hairs and paler and sparingly villose on the midribs and veins below, 

 and at maturity thin, yellow-green and scabrate on the upper surface, 

 nearly glabrous on the lower surface, 5-8 cm. long and 4.5-8 cm. wide, 

 with stout midribs, and thin prominent primary veins; petioles 

 slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, densely villose early 

 in the season, becoming almost glabrous, 1.5-3 cm. in length; leaves 

 on vigorous shoots usually cordate at the broad base, more coarsely 

 serrate and more deeply lobed and often 8-10 cm. long and broad, with 

 thicker midribs and primary veins and stout glandular petioles. 

 Flowers 1.2-1.6 cm. in diameter, on short densely villose pedicels, in 

 small compact hairy mostly 5-10-flowered corymbs, the lower pedun- 

 cles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 slightly villose, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, coarsely glandular- 

 serrate, glabrous on the outer surface, villose on the inner surface, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-8; anthers dark purple; styles 




1.910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



3-5. Fruit ripening late in September, on slender drooping slightly 

 hairy pedicels, in wide clusters, subglobose to short-oblong or slightly 

 obovate, rounded at the ends, crimson, lustrous, marked by small 

 pale dots, 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a wide shallow 

 •cavity, and spreading lobes, dark red on the upper side below the 

 middle; flesh thick, light orange-yellow, juicy, acidulous; nutlets 

 3-5 acute at the apex, narrowed and rounded at the base, rounded 

 and sometimes slightly grooved on the back, about 5 mm. long and 

 3 mm. wide. 



A tree 5 or 6 m. high, with a trunk 2 dm. in diameter, covered 

 with dark gray flaky bark, large spreading branches forming a round- 

 topped head, and slender only slightly zigzag glabrous branchlets 

 dark orange-green when they first appear, becoming light chestnut 

 brown, lustrous and marked by dark lenticels in their first season 

 and dark red-brown the following year, and armed with slender straight 

 •chestnut brown shining spines 2-2.5 cm. long. 



Schenly Park, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jennings, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 21 type) September 28, 1905, 0. E. 

 Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer, May 24, 1906, May 17, 1907, 0. E. 

 Jennings, September 27, 1907. 



This species is named for Mr. George William Burke, Superintendent 

 of the Parks of Pittsburg, who has aided materially Dr. Jennings 

 in his investigations of Crataegus in that city. 



2. Crataegus sejuncta Sargent. 



Bull. N. Y. State Mus., CV, 65 (1906), CXXII, 71; No. 4, Ontario Nat. 

 Sci. Bull., 48. 



Roadside near Robesonia, Berks County, C. L. Gruber, (No. 226) 

 August 2 and September 2, 1905, May 12, 1906; also western New 

 England, and through New York to southern Ontario. 



From the type at West Albany, New York, of this widely distributed 

 and rather variable species the Robesonia plant differs in its somewhat 

 larger flowers (1.5-2 cm. in diameter), in its 15-20-flowered (not 

 8-10-flowered) corymbs, in the presence of a few hairs on the calyx- 

 tube, and in its rather larger fruits. 



3. Crataegus pedioellata Sargent. 



Bot. Gazette, XXXI, 226 (1901); Silva N. Am., XIII, 101, t. 677; Proc 

 Rochester Acad. Sci., IV, 116; Man., 44S, f. 365; No. 4 Ontario Nat. Sci 

 Bull., 46; Bull. N. Y. State Mus., CXXII, 69; Eggleston, Gray's Man., 

 ed. 7, 475 (in part). 



Between Stoopes Ferry and Carnot, Allegheny County, O. E. Jen- 

 nings and Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 31) October 4 and 6, 1905, O. E. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [March, 



Jennings, May 20. 1907. B. H. Smith, O. E. and Grace K. Jennings, 

 October 9, 1907; Liriesville, Crawford County, O. E. Jennings, (No. 

 91) October 9, 1907; also southern Ontario to western New York. 



In the Pennsylvania plant the stamens are often only 5-7 and 

 the mature leaves are rather less scabrate than those of C. pediceUata 

 as it grows near Rochester, New York, where the species was first 

 distinguished. 



4. Crataegus cristata Ashe. 



Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. Ill, 392 (1902). 



Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, abruptly cuneate or rounded 

 at the broad base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and divided into 4 or 5 pairs of narrow acuminate lateral lobes; 

 deeply tinged with red and villose on both surfaces when they unfold, 

 nearly one-third grown when the flowers open about the 10th of May 

 and then very thin, light yellow-green and roughened above by short 

 white hairs, and paler and slightly villose on the midribs below, and at 

 maturity thin, scabrate. dark yellow-green on the upper surface, 

 paler on the lower surface. 7-9 cm. long and 6-7 cm. wide, with slender 

 midribs and thin primary veins arching obliquely to the points of the 

 lobes; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, villose 

 through the season, occasionally glandular, with persistent glands, 

 2-3 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots rounded or truncate at 

 the wide base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, and often 

 9-10 cm. long and broad, with stout petioles sometimes 4-5 cm. long. 

 Flowers 1.7-1.8 cm. in diameter, on short pedicels, in small compact 

 slightly hairy mostly 8-12-flowered corymbs, the long lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, glabrous, 

 the lobas long, slender, acuminate, minutely glandular-dentate, 

 glabrous on the outer, slightly villose on the inner surface, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 5-8; anthers dark pink; styles 3-5. Fruit 

 ripening late in September, on long drooping red pedicels, in few- 

 fruited clusters, obovate, full and rounded at the apex, gradually 

 narrowed at the base, deep orange-red, marked by small pale dots, 

 often glaucous. 1.2-1.4 cm. long and 1.1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx 

 prominent, with a wide deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and small 

 coarsely serrate persistent lobas ; flesh thick, light orange-yellow, juicy, 

 acidulous; nutlets 3-5. gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, 

 ridged on the back, with a broad low rounded ridge, 7-7.5 mm. 

 long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A tree occasionally 5-7 m. high, with a short trunk 1.5-2 dm. in 

 diameter, covered with dark gray scaly bark, or often shrubby, with 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



numerous large stems, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets dark 

 orange-green more or less tinged with red and covered with matted 

 pale haire when they first appear, becoming dull light chestnut brown 

 in their first season and darker-colored the following year, and armed 

 with many stout straight purple spines 2.5-3 cm. long. 



St owes Township, near Turner Station, Allegheny County, W. W. 

 Ashe and J. A. Shafer, October 1901; on a hillside facing Forbes 

 Avenue, opposite Woodland Avenue, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 

 W. W. Ashe and J. A. Shafer, October 1901, May 1902; Schenley Park, 

 Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, (No. 22) September 28, 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 24, 1906, 

 May 17 and September 22, 1907; on the flood plain of the Olive River 

 at Fleming Park beyond McKee's Rocks, near Pittsburg, Allegheny 

 County, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 25, with 

 rather smaller fruit containing often 4 or 5 nutlets), September 29, 

 1905, O. E. Jennings, May 17, 1907; Nine-mile Run, Pittsburg, 

 O. E. Jennings, October 9, 1905, O. E. and G. K. Jennings, (No. 42, 

 with more hairy corymbs) May 17, 1907. East Altoona, Blair County, 



B. H. Smith, (No. 265) May 20. 1905, May 17, 1906, B. H. Smith and 



C. S. Sargent, September 25, 1905; valley of the Conemaugh, between 

 Portage and Wilmore, Cambria County, B. H. Smith, May 21, 1905, 

 B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 26, 1905. 



5. Crataegus Holmesiana Ashe. 



Jour. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc, XVI, pt. II, 78 (1900); Sargent, Silva N. 

 Am., XIII, 119, t. 676; Proe. Rochester Acad. Sci., IV, 114; Man., 449, 

 f. 366; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1905, 630; No. IV, Ontario Nat. 

 Sci. Soc. Bull., .53; Bull. CXXII, N. Y. State Mus., 71; Eggleston, 

 Gray Man., ed. 7, 473. 



Keyser Valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 67) May 23, 1906, A. Twining, September 

 14, 1908; Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 315) 

 May 20, 1906, October 8, 1907; also Bucks and Berks Counties (var. 

 rillipcs Ashe), and from Ontario to New England. 



8. ROTUNDIFOLLE. 



Leaves subcoriaceous or thin, obovate to ovate or rhombic, cuneate 

 at the base; petioles short or long. Flowers in mostly glabrous 

 many- or few-flowered corymbs; anthers yellow or rose color. 

 Fruit subglobose to short-oblong or obovate, red, ripening late, 

 1-1.5 cm. in diameter; nutlets usually 3 or 4. (Rotundifolice, 

 Eggleston, Rhodora, X, 75 [1908]; Coccinea, Sargent, Rhodora, 

 III, 26 (not Loudon) [1901].) 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March - 



Corymbs many-flowered; stamens 10; anthers pale yellow; fruit 

 subglobose. 

 Leaves subcoriaceous ; fruit 1.2-1.5 cm. in diameter. 



1. C. rotund if olio. 

 Leaves thin; fruit usually less than 1 cm. in diameter. 



2. C. DodgeL 

 Corymbs few-flowered. 

 Stamens 10 or less. 



Anthers pale yellow; stamens 10; leaves broadly ovate, thick; 



fruit subglobose to short-oblong 3. C. grossu. 



Anthers slightly tinged with pink; stamens 5 or 6; leaves 

 rhombic to slightly obovate, thin; fruit obovate. 



4. C. dacrioidea. 

 Stamens 10-15; anthers cream color; leaves ovate to obovate,. 



thin 5. C. varians. 



Stamens 20 (15-20 in No. 9). 

 Anthers cream color. 



Flowers less than 2 cm. in diameter, in 3-6-flowered 

 corymbs. 

 Leaves obovate, crenately serrate, glabrous. 



6. C. Broivnii. 

 Leaves ovate to oval or rhombic, with straight teeth,. 



villose above while young 7. C. repentina. 



Flowers at least 2.5 cm. in diameter, in 5-12-flowered 

 corymbs ; leaves ovate to obovate, villose while young. 



8. C. scopulorum. 



Anthers rose color; leaves broadly ovate to obovate; fruit 



subglobose, usually broader than long 9. C. ignava. 



1. Crataegus rotundifolia (Ehrhart) Moench. 



Baum. Weiss, 29, t. 1 (17S5). Eggleston, Britton N. Am. Trees, 464; 

 Gray Man., ed. 7, 468. 



Mespilus glandulosa Ehrhart. Beitr., Ill, 20 (1788). 



Crataegus horrida Medicus, Gesch. Bot., 84 (1793). 



Mespilus rotundifolia Du Roi, Harbk. Baume (excl. svn. Crataegus glandu- 

 losa Aiton) (1795). 



Cratwgus glandulosa Willdenow, Berl. Baumz., 84 (excel, syn. Crataegus- 

 sanguined) (1796). 



Crataegus coccinea Lindley, Bot. Reg., XXIII. t. 1957 (not Linnaeus) (1837). 



Crataegus coccinea, var. rotundifolia Sargent, Bot. Gazette, XXXI, 14 (1900)- 

 Silva N. Am.. XIII, 134; Man., 460; Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 631; Bull. X. Y. State Mus., CV, 64, CXXII, 72. 



Crataegus rotundifolia var. Bicknellii Eggleston, Rhodora, X, 79 (190S); 

 Gray Man., ed. 7, 469. 



Keyser Valley, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 14) May 23 and September 14, 1908, June 4, 1909; East Altoona, 

 Blair County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 290), B. H. Smith,. 

 May 17, 1906; between Portage and Wilmore, Cambria County, B. H. 

 Smith, May 21, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 26 r 

 1905; also eastern Canada and New England to Illinois. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



2. Crataegus Dodgei Ashe. 



Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc, XIX, 26 (March, 1901); Sargent, Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 632; Rhodora, VII, 213; Bull. CV, N. Y. State 



Mus., 64, CXXII, 72; Rep. Geolog. Surv. Michigan, 1906, 555. 

 Crataegus Gravesii Sargent, Rhodora, V, 159 (June, 1901). 

 Crataegus fallens Gruber, Proc. Bucks Co. Nat, Sci. Club, I, 19 (Crata>gu> 



in Bucks County) (1903). 

 Crataegus rotundifolia Eggleston, Grav Man., ed. 7, 468 (in part) (not Moench) 



(1908). 



Lincoln Heights, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 

 1) May 31, 1907; valley of the Little Juniata River below Altoona, 

 Blair County, B. H. Smith, (No. 263) May 20, 1905, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, September 27, 1905, (No. 268) B. H. Smith, May 20, 

 1905. 



3. Crataegus grossa n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves broadly ovate, acute, abruptly cuneate at 

 the wide base or rarely' obovate and gradually narrowed at the base, 

 finely often doubly serrate, with straight or incurved glandular teeth, 

 and very slightly divided usually only above the middle into 3 or 

 4 pairs of short broad acuminate lobes ; nearly half-grown when the 

 flowers open the middle of May and then thin, yellow-green, very 

 smooth and lustrous above and pale below, and at maturity thick, 

 dark yellow-green and lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the 

 lower surface, 4.5-5.5 cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide, with prominent 

 midribs and thin primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, 2-2.5 cm. in length. Flowers 1.6-1.8 cm. 

 in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in compact mostly 4-10- 

 flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed 

 to the base, short, broad, acuminate, entire or slightly glandular- 

 dentate, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers cream 

 color; styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring 

 of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening the end of September, on short 

 stout erect pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to short- 

 oblong, full and rounded at the ends, dull orange-red, marked by 

 numerous pale dots, 8-10 mm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a wide shallow cavity pointed and tomentose in the bottom, and 

 small spreading and appressed often deciduous lobes; flesh thin and 

 hard; nutlets 3 or 4, acute at the base, gradually narrowed and rounded 

 at the apex, rounded and slightly grooved on the back, 5-5.5 mm. 

 long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A broad. round-topped shrub 1.5-2 m. high, with small ashy gray 

 stems, and slender slightly zigzag often contorted branchlets dark 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming dark chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and 

 dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with numerous stout 

 or slender slightly curved purple shining spines 3-6 cm. long. 



Upland pastures and the borders of woods, common; near Bedford 

 Springs, Bedford County. B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 296 

 type) September 30, 1905, September 7, 1909, B. H. Smith, May 18, 

 1906, May 22, 1909; road above Bedford Springs Hotel, Bedford, 

 Bedford County, B. H. Smith, May 22, 1909, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, September 7. 1909; field near cemetery. Bedford, Bedford 

 County, B. H. Smith, (No. 17) May 22, 1909, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, September 7, 1909. 

 4. Crataegus daorioidea n. sp. 



Leaves rhombic or slightly obovate, acute, acuminate or rarely 

 orbicular and rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed to the long 

 concave-cuneate base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and sometimes slightly divided above the middle into 

 small acute lobes, nearly fully grown when the flowers open about 

 the 20th of May and then very thin, dark yellow-green, slightly 

 roughened by short white hairs and villose on the midribs above and 

 pale and glabrous below, and at maturity thin, dull yellow-green, 

 smooth or scabrate on the upper surface and pale yellow-green on the 

 lower surface, 3.5-5 cm. long and 2.5-3 cm. wide, with thin yellow 

 midribs and primary veins : petioles slender, slightly wing-margined 

 at the apex, sparingly villose on the upper side while young, becoming 

 glabrous, glandular, with minute glands, 1 .5-2.5 cm. in length. Flowers 

 very fragrant, 2-3 cm. in diameter, on short slender slightly villose 

 pedicels, in small compact 3-5-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, glabrous, 

 the lobes short, broad, laciniately glandular-serrate, glabrous, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 5 or 6; anthers faintly tinged with pink, soon 

 becoming white; styles 3-5. Fruit ripening early in October, obovate, 

 gradually narrowed to the base, somewhat narrowed at the apex, 

 orange-red, lustrous, marked by large pale dots, 1.2-1.5 cm. long and 

 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a deep 

 narrow cavity pointed in the bottom, and small spreading often 

 deciduous lobes ; flesh yellow-green, dry and hard ; nutlets 3, grad- 

 ually narrowed and rounded at the ends, rather broader at the base 

 than at the apex, ridged on the back, with a deeply grooved ridge, 

 6-6.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1-2 m. high, with very slender stems covered with smooth 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



dark bark, and nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green tinged 

 with red and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becom- 

 ing light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and dull 

 red-brown the following year, and armed with numerous very slender 

 straight purple shining spines 4-4.5 cm. long. 



Borders of woods, Shade Gap Road, near Orbisonia, Huntingdon 

 County, B. H. Smith, (No. 317 type) May 20, 1906, October 8, 1907. 

 5. Crataegus varians n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate to obovate, acuminate, gradually or 

 abruptly narrowed and cuneate at the entire base, coarsely often 

 doubly serrate, with broad straight glandular teeth, and slightly 

 divided into 3 or 4 pairs of broad acute lateral lobes; nearly half- 

 grown when the flowers open from the middle to the end of May and 

 then very thin, yellow-green, smooth and lustrous above and paler 

 below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green, pale, 5-7 cm. long and 

 3-5 cm. wide, with slender prominent midribs, and thin primary 

 veins; petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined sometimes nearly to 

 the middle, 2.5-4 cm. in length on the lower surface. Floicers 

 2.5 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in very compact mostly 

 5-7-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube broadly obconic, the lobes separated by wide 

 sinuses, gradually narrowed from the base, short, broad, acuminate, 

 entire or occasionally minutely glandular-dentate near the middle, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10-15; anthers cream color; styles 

 3 or 4, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. 

 Fruit ripening and falling at the end of September, on long stout 

 erect or spreading pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose, dark 

 red blotched with green, marked by numerous large pale dots, 1-1.2 

 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a wide 

 shallow cavity, and spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh green and 

 hard; nutlets 3 or 4, gradually narrowed and acute at the ends, or, 

 when 3, broad and rounded at the apex, ridged on the back, with a 

 broad deeply grooved ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



An irregularly topped shrub 3-7 m. high, with several large spread- 

 ing stems covered with pale scaly bark, small spreading and ascending 

 branches, and slender nearly straight branchlets, dark orange-green and 

 marked by numerous pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming 

 bright chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and light red- 

 or orange-brown the following year, and armed with stout or slender 

 straight or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 2.5-4 cm. 



long. 



15 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Glades in low moist soil surrounded by oak woods, near Bedford 

 Springs, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 292 

 type) September 29, 1905, B. H. Smith, May 18, 1906, May 22, 1909. 



6. Crataegus Brownii Britton. 



Bull. Torrey Bot, Club, I, 44 (1900). 



Crataegus Margaretta Eggleston, Britton, X. Am. Trees, 463 (in part) (not 

 Ashe) (1908); Gray Man., ed. 7, 464. 



Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 319) May 20, 

 1906, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, October 9, 1906; also mountains 

 of Virginia. 



7. Crataegus repentina n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 petioles. Leaves ovate to oval or rhombic, acuminate at the ends, or 

 acute at the apex and abruptly cuneate at the base, finely often 

 doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided 

 usually only above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small acute lobes 

 usually pointing toward the apex of the leaf; deeply tinged with red 

 when they unfold, not more than one-third grown when the flowers 

 open about the 20th of May and then dark yellow-green, smooth, 

 lustrous and slightly hairy above and pale and glabrous below, and at 

 maturity thin but firm in texture, dark yellow-green on the upper 

 surface, pale on the lower surface, 5-5.5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, 

 with thin prominent midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, 

 narrowly wing-margined often to the middle, slightly villose on the 

 upper side while young, soon becoming glabrous, 2-3 cm. in length; 

 leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, acute, rounded at the wide 

 base, coarsely sen ate, deeply lobed, and often 5-6 cm. long and broad, 

 with stout conspicuously glandular petioles. Flowers 1.8 cm. in 

 diameter, on long slender pedicels, in compact 3-6-flowered corymbs, 

 the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, 

 long, slender, acuminate, entire or occasionally minutely dentate 

 near the middle, reflexed after anthesis ; stamens 10-20 ; anthers cream 

 color, minute; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening the middle of September, 

 on stout drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to 

 slightly obovate, red, pruinose, 1.2-1.3 cm. in diameter; calyx little 

 enlarged, with a short neck, a deep narrow cavity pointed in the 

 bottom, and reflexed appressed persistent lobes dark red on the upper 

 side below the middle; flesh thin, firm, pale green; nutlets 3 or 4, 

 narrowed and rounded at the apex, acute at the base, rounded and 

 slightly grooved on the back, about 6 mm. long and 4 mm. wide. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



A tree or arborescent shrub sometimes 5 m. high, with stems covered 

 with gray scaly bark, spreading and erect branches, and slender only 

 slightly zigzag branchlets dark orange-green and marked by numerous 

 pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light orange-brown 

 and lustrous in their first season and darker orange-brown the follow- 

 ing year, and armed with numerous slender straight or slightly curved 

 shining spines 3-3.5 cm. long and persistent and compound on old 

 stems. 



Borders of woods on rich hillsides, near Bedford Springs, Bedford 

 County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 14 type) May 26, 1908, 

 September 7, 1909, B. H. Smith, September 17, 1908 and May 22, 1909. 



8. Crataegus scopulorum n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 on the calyx-lobes. Leaves ovate to obovate, acuminate and short- 

 pointed at the apex, cuneate or rounded at the base, sharply often 

 doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided 

 above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small acuminate lobes; about 

 one-third grown when the flowers open at the end of May and then 

 very thin, concave, yellow-green, roughened above by short white 

 hairs and slightly villose along the midribs and veins below; mature 

 leaves not seen; leaves on vigorous shoots ovate, rounded at the 

 broad base, more coarsely serrate, slightly lobed and often 6-7 cm. 

 long and 5-6 cm. wide, with thick midribs, slender primary veins, 

 and stout broadly winged slightly glandular petioles. Flourrs 2.5- 

 2.6 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in 5-12-flowered corymbs ; 

 calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed to the 

 base, long, slender, laciniately glandular-serrate above the middle, 

 sparingly villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis ; stamens 

 20; anthers almost white; styles 3-5, surrounded at the base by a 

 broad ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening late in September, 

 on slender pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short-oblong to slightly 

 obovate, orange-red, marked by small pale dots, 8-10 mm. in diameter; 

 calyx little enlarged, with a broad deep cavity, and small closely 

 appressed lobes; flesh red; nutlets 3-5, rounded at the apex, acute 

 at the base, ridged on the back, with a low narrow ridge, 6-6.5 mm. 

 long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with stout stems covered with dark scaly 

 bark and spreading into thickets, and slender slightly zigzag branchlets 

 light orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with slender slightly 

 curved shining spines 2.5-3.5 cm. long. 



Hillside at the base of Campbell's Ledge, Luzerne County, A. 

 Twining, (No. 32 type) May 30 and September 28, 1907. 

 9. Crataegus ignava n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves broadly ovate to obovate, acute or 

 acuminate, gradually narrowed and concave-cuneate at the entire base, 

 sharply often doubly serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, 

 and divided usually only above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of small 

 acute spreading lobes; deeply tinged with red and covered above by 

 long white hairs when they unfold, nearly one-third grown when the 

 flowers open about the 20th of May and then dark yellow-green and 

 roughened above by short hairs and pale bluish green below, and at 

 maturity thin, yellow-green, scabrate on the upper surface, 5-6 cm. 

 long and 4.5-5.5 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined sometimes to the 

 middle, glandular, with occasional minute persistent glands, 2-2.5 cm. 

 in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots ovate, rounded or abruptly 

 cuneate at the broad base, coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed, and often 

 6-7 cm. long and wide. Floicers 1.5 or 1.6 cm. in diameter, on long 

 stout pedicels, in compact mostly 5-7-flowered corymbs, the elongated 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube broadly 

 obconic, the lobes separated by wide sinuses, long, slender, acuminate, 

 entire or minutely dentate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 15-20; anthers light rose color; styles 2-4, surrounded at 

 the base by a narrow ring of pale hairs. Fruit ripening late in Sep- 

 tember, on long stout drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, 

 subglobose or rather broader than long, light green when fully ripe, 

 becoming russet, 1.6-1.7 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, 

 with a wide shallow cavity broad in the bottom, and small spreading 

 lobes dark red on the upper side below the middle and often deciduous 

 from the ripe fruit ; flesh thick, firm, light green ; nutlets 2-4, usually 

 3, rounded and obtuse at the ends, ridged and slightly grooved on the 

 back, 8.5-9 mm. long and 6.5-7 mm. wide. 



An arborescent shrub 6-7 m. high, with stems covered with 

 gray scaly bark, spreading branches, and slender nearly straight 

 branchlets dark orange-green and more or less tinged with red when 

 they first appear, becoming bright orange-brown and lustrous in their 

 first season and darker-colored the following year, and armed with 

 slender straight or slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



3.5-5 cm. long, persistent and becoming compound on old stems and 

 branches. 



Borders of oak woods, near Bedford Springs, Bedford County, 

 B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 8 type) September 17, 1908, 

 B. H. Smith, May 26, 1908, May 22, 1909. 



9. Intricat.e. 



Leaves usually cuneate; petioles short, glandular; flowers large, open- 

 ing late, in small few, usually 3-7-fiowered corymbs, with gener- 

 ally large conspicuous glandular bracts and bractlets; stamens 

 10 or less in the following species; fruit late-ripening, subglobose 

 to short-oblong or obovate, sometimes broader than high, red, 

 orange color, bright yellow or russet green more or less blotched 

 with red, 1-1.5 cm. in diameter; flesh hard; nutlets 3-5, rounded 

 at the ends. 

 Anthers yellow. 

 Leaves and corymbs glabrous. 

 Fruit short-oblong to subglobose. 



Leaves ovate to oval, 4.5-6 cm. in length, glabrous when 

 young; flowers 2.5-3 cm. in diameter, in 5-8-flowered 



corymbs 1. C. Twiningii. 



Leaves ovate, 3-4 cm. in length, slightly hairy above while 

 young; flowers 1.5-2 cm. in diameter, in 4-6-flowered 



corymbs 2. C. leptalea. 



Fruit short-oblong, orange red. 



Leaves ovate, deeply lobed; flowers on slender pedicels, in 

 5-flowered corymbs, their bracts and bractlets small 

 but conspicuous; fruit occasionally slightly obovate, 



8-10 mm. in diameter 3. C. jructuosa. 



Leaves ovate to oval, only slightly lobed; flowers on stout 

 pedicels, in 5- or 6-flowered corymbs, with large bracts 

 and bractlets; stamens 6-8; fruit up to 1.4 cm. in 



diameter 4. C. Icetula, 



Fruit oblong-obovate. 

 Leaves oblong-ovate. 



Flowers on long slender pedicels; fruit russet green with 



a red cheek 5. C. Kinzcrce. 



Flowers on short pedicels ; fruit orange color. 



6. ('. intricate,. 



Leaves oblong to oval 7. C. apposita. 



Leaves scabrate; corymbs villose. 

 Fruit short-oblong to subglobose. 



Leaves rhombic to oval, narrowed at the base; flowers in 



5_7_flowered corymbs 8. C. confusa. 



Leaves ovate, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the base; 

 flowers in 3-5-flowered corymbs 9. C. contortula. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Fruit oblong; leaves broadly ovate and rounded at the base 



to rhombic 10. C. callista. 



Fruit ovate; leaves ovate to oval, cuneate at the base 



11. C. alpisla. 

 Anthers rose color or pink. 



Leaves smooth and glabrous at maturity; corymbs glabrous. 

 Fruit short-oblong to slightly obovate, canary yellow. 



Leaves ovate to obovate; flowers in 6-12-flowered corymbs; 



anthers dark rose color 12. C. fortunata. 



Leaves oval to ovate; flowers in 5-6- flowered corymbs; 



anthers light pink 13. C. hrfcola. 



Fruit depressed-ovate to short-oblong, rather broader than 

 high, russet green more or less tinged with red; leaves 

 ovate; anthers faintly tinged with pink.. ..14. C. Jenningsii. 

 Leaves scabrate; anthers pink. 



Flowers on densely villose pedicels, in small 3-flowered corymbs; 

 calyx-tube villose; young leaves villose on the midribs and 

 veins below; fruit subglobose to short-oblong .15. C. scabra. 

 Flowers on glabrous pedicels, in broad 3-7-flowered corymbs; 

 calyx-tube and young leaves glabrous; fruit slightly 

 obovate 16. C. gratiosa. 



1. Crataegus Twiningii ". sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate to oval, acute or acuminate, abruptly 

 or acutely cuneate at the base, coarsely doubly serrate, with straight 

 or incurved glandular teeth, and slightly divided above the middle 

 into 2 or 3 pairs of short acuminate lobes; tinged with red when they 

 unfold, nearly half-grown when the flowers open at the end of May and 

 then thin, light yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper 

 surface and paler on the lower surface, and at maturity thin, dark 

 yellow green above, pale below, 4.5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide, 

 with stout midribs and slender primary veins; petioles stout, broadly 

 wing-margined to below the middle, glandular, with minute persistent 

 glands, often rose color in the autumn, 1.5-2.5 cm. in length; leaves on 

 vigorous shoots broadly ovate and rounded or cuneate at the base, or 

 nearly orbicular, coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and often 6-7 

 cm. long and broad, with stout broadly winged conspicuously glandular 

 petioles. Flowers 2.5-3 cm. in diameter, on short stout pedicels, in 

 small compact 5-8-flowered corymbs, with large oblong-obovate to 

 linear more or less falcate green coarsely glandular-serrate bracts and 

 bractlets persistent until after the flowers open; calyx-tube broadly 

 obconic, the lobes separated by wide sinuses, foliaceous, short, broad, 

 acuminate, laciniately glandular-serrate above the middle, reflexed 

 'after an thesis; stamens 10; anthers yellow; styles 3-5, surrounded 

 at the base by a broad ring of pale hairs. Fruit ripening early in 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



October, on short stout erect pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, short- 

 oblong to subglobose, green tinged with red, 1.1-1.2 cm. in diameter; 

 calyx prominent, with a wide shallow cavity broad and slightly 

 tomentose in the bottom, and small spreading lobes dark red on the 

 upper side; flesh green, dry and hard; nutlets 3 or 4, full and rounded 

 at the ends, broader at the apex than at the base, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad high deeply grooved ridge, 7-7.5 mm. long and 5 mm. 

 wide. 



A shrub 1-1.5 m. high, with stems covered with yellow-gray bark, 

 and stout nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green and marked 

 by large pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light chestnut 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dull red-brown the follow- 

 ing year, and armed with numerous slender straight or slightly curved 

 chestnut brown shining spines 1.5-2.5 cm. long. 



Lincoln Heights, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 

 9 type) June 8 and October 5, 1907, (No. 46) October 5, 1907. 



This species is named for its discoverer, Mr. Alfred Twining, of 

 Scranton, who first called attention to the richness of Lackawanna 

 County in forms of Crataegus. 

 2. Crataegus leptalea n- sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly cuneate or 

 rounded at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and divided into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad acute lateral lobes; 

 nearly fully grown when the flowers open from the 20th to the 25th 

 of May and then thin, yellow-green and furnished above with occa- 

 sional white hairs and paler below, and at maturity thin, very smooth, 

 yellow-green, paler on the lower surface than on the upper surface, 

 3-4 cm. long and 2.5-3 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary 

 veins; petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, 

 glandular, with minute persistent glands, 1-1.5 cm. in length; leaves 

 on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the 

 wide base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, and often 

 5-5.5 cm. long and broad. Flowers 1.5-2 cm. in diameter, on short 

 stout pedicels, in small compact 4-6-flowered corymbs, with large 

 conspicuous glandular bracts and bractlets, the lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the 

 lobes foliaceous, acuminate, laciniately glandular-serrate, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers white or cream color; styles 4 

 or 5. Fruit ripening in October, on stout erect pedicels, in mostly 

 3-5-fruited clusters, short-oblong to subglobose, about 1 cm. in diame- 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ter; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a broad shallow cavity, 

 and spreading usually persistent lobes; flesh thin, green, dry and 

 mealy; nutlets 4 or 5, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, 

 rounded and ridged on the back, with a low narrow ridge, 7-8 mm. 

 long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A narrow shrub about 1 m. high, with small stems and branches, 

 and slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green and marked 

 by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut 

 brown and lustrous in their first season and dull gray-brown the 

 following year, and armed with numerous very slender nearly straight 

 purple spines 2-3.5 cm. long. 



Fields on hills above Bedford Springs, Bedford County, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (Xo. 12 type) May 26, 1908, September 7, 

 1909, B. H. Smith, September 17, 1908. 

 3. Crataegus fructuosa n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves ovate, acuminate, abruptly or grad- 

 ually narrowed and cuneate at the base, finely often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and divided into three or four pairs 

 of short broad acute lateral lobes; not more than one-third grown 

 when the flowers open about the 20th of May and then thin, } r ellow- 

 green and slightly hairy on the upper side of the midribs, and at 

 maturity thin, yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, 

 pale on the lower surface. 4-4.5 cm. long and about 3.5 cm. wide, 

 with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, glandular, with persistent glands, 2-2.5 cm- 

 in length; leaves on vigorous shoots ovate, rounded at the wide 

 base, more coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and often 5.5-6 cm. 

 long and broad, with stout broadly winged conspicuously glandular 

 petioles. Flowers 1.6-1.8 cm. in diameter, on slender pedicels, in 

 5-flowered corymbs, with small but conspicuous glandular-serrate 

 bracts and bractlets persistent until the flowers open; calyx-tube 

 narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, long, 

 slender, acuminate, finely glandular-serrate above the middle, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers cream color; styles 3 or 4. Fruit 

 ripening hi October, on short stout pedicels, in few-fruited erect and 

 spreading clusters, depressed-globose, rounded at the ends, deep 

 orange-red, lustrous, about 1 cm. long and 1.2 cm. wide; calyx promi- 

 nent, with a short tube, a wide deep cavity pointed in the bottom, 

 and spreading persistent lobes; flesh thin, firm, light yellow; nutlets 

 4 or 5, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, rather thicker 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



at the apex than at the base, only slightly ridged on the back, 5.5-6 

 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1.5-2 m. high, with small ascending stems and branches 

 covered with close dark bark, slender nearly straight branchlets dark 

 orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and 

 dull reddish brown the following year, and armed with numerous 

 stout nearly straight purple spines 2.5-3 cm. long. 



Serpentine Ridge north of West Chester, Chester County, B. H. 

 Smith, (No. 21 type) May 17 and October 5, 1909, B. H. Smith and 

 Dr. W. T. Sharpless, May 22, 1909. 



4. Crataegus laetula n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of a few hairs on the young leaves 

 and petioles. Leaves ovate to oval, acute or acuminate and often 

 short-pointed at the apex, cuneate or rounded at the base, coarsely 

 doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, and very slightly divided 

 above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of small lobes; more than half- 

 grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May and then thin, 

 yellow-green and furnished with a few hairs along the upper side of 

 the slender midribs and veins, and at maturity thin, dark yeliow-green, 

 smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 

 3.5-4.5 cm. long and 2.5-3 cm. wide; petioles slender, slightly wing- 

 margined at the apex, sparingly villose early in the season, soon becom- 

 ing glabrous, glandular, with persistent glands, rose colored in the 

 autumn, 1-1.5 cm. in length. Flowers 1.6 cm. in diameter, on long 

 stout pedicels, in broad 3-6-flowered corymbs, with long broad ligulate 

 laciniately glandular-serrate conspicuous bracts and bractlets persis- 

 tent until after the petals fall; calyx-tube broadly obconic, the lobes 

 gradually narrowed from wide bases, short, acute, laciniately glandular- 

 serrate above the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 6-10; 

 anthers white, becoming pale yellow; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening 

 in October, on elongated slender pedicels, in few-fruited drooping 

 clusters, depressed-globose, full and rounded at the ends, deep dull 

 red, about 1 cm. long and 1.3 cm. wide; calyx little enlarged, with a 

 deep wide cavity broad in the bottom, and spreading and reflexed 

 often deciduous lobes; flesh thick, yellow, dry and firm; nutlets 3 or 

 4, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back 

 with a low narrow ridge, 5-5.6 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



An intricately branched shrub 2-3 in. high, with small stems covered 

 with dark bark, and slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange- 

 green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and dull gray- 

 brown the following year, and armed with numerous slender straight 

 chestnut brown spines 3.5-5 cm. long and often pointing toward the 

 base of the branch. 



Preston Run Barrens, Newtown, Delaware County, B. H. Smith, 

 (No 246 type) May 27 and September 28, 1904, May 19 and September 

 29, 1909. " 



5. Crataegus Kinzeras n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves oblong-ovate, acuminate, gradually or abruptly 

 narrowed to the cuneate base, sharply often doubly serrate, with 

 straight glandular teeth, and deeply divided into 4 or 5 pairs of narrow 

 acuminate spreading lateral lobes ; about half-grown when the flowers 

 open in the first week of June and then very thin, yellow-green and 

 smooth above, paler below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow-green 

 and lustrous on the upper surface, pale on the lower surface, 3.5-5 cm. 

 long and 2.5-3.5 cm. wide, with slender midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular, with 

 minute persistent glands, 1.2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots 

 thin, rounded or abruptly cuneate at the broad base, more coarsely 

 serrate, deeply lobed, and often 7-8 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide. Flowers 

 1.5-1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in small rather lax 

 mostly 5-7-flowered corymbs, with conspicuous oblong-obovate to 

 linear glandular-serrate bracts and bractlets fading brown and per- 

 sistent until the petals have fallen, the long lower peduncles from the 

 axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from the base, short, slender, acuminate, laciniateby glandu- 

 lar-serrate above the middle, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 8-10, 

 usually 10; anthers large, creamy white; styles 2-4, usually 3, sur- 

 rounded at the base by a narrow ring of short white hairs. Fruit 

 ripening and falling early in October, on slender erect or spreading 

 pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, oblong-obovate, full and rounded 

 at the apex, gradually narrowed to the long slender base, russet-green 

 to russet-orange with a dark red cheek, 1.2-1.4 cm. long and 1-1.2 

 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a wide shallow cavity 

 hairy in the bottom, and small spreading and appressed persistent 

 lobes; flesh thin, hard, becoming succulent when fully ripe, light 

 greenish yellow ; nutlets 2-4, usually 2 or 3, broad and rounded at the 

 ends, or, when 2, narrowed and rounded at the ends and rather broader 

 at the base than at the apex, ridged on the back, with a broad low 

 slightly grooved ridge, 6.5-7 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



An intricately branched shrub 2-3 m. high, with small spreading 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



stems covered with dark gray bark, and spreading into thickets, and 

 slender slightly zigzag branchlets, dark orange-green and marked by 

 pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown 

 and lustrous in their first season and dull red-brown the following 

 year, and armed with only occasional slender straight chestnut brown 

 shining spines 2-2.5 cm. long and sometimes persistent and branched 

 on old stems. 



Schenley Park, Pittsburg, Allegheny County, 0. E. Jennings, 

 (No. 56 type) May 27, 1906, May 17 and June 8, 1907, 0. E. Jennings, 

 October 5, 1907. 



This beautiful and distinct plant is named for Miss Grace E. Kinzer^ 

 now Mrs. Jennings, the intelligent and zealous assistant of her husband 

 in his botanical labors. 



6. Crataegus intricata Lange. 



Bot, Tidskr., XIX, 246 (1894); Sargent, Rhodora, III, 28; Bull. No. CV 

 N. Y. State Mus., 67, No. CXXII, 104. 



Hillside above Bedford Springs, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and 

 €. S. Sargent, (No. 16) May 26, 1908; also New England to western 

 New York. 



7. Crataegus apposita Sargent. 



Bot. Gazette, XXXV, 103 (The Genus Crataegus in Newcastle County, 

 Delaware) (1903); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 643. 



Keyser Valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining (No. 

 52) June 13, 1907, September 20, 1908; also in Berks, Bucks and 

 Delaware Counties; and in Newcastle County, Delaware. 



■8. Crataegus confusa n. sp. 



Crataegus circur Ashe, Ann. Carnegie Mus., I, pt. 3, 397 (in so far as relates 

 to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania) (1902). 



Leaves rhombic to oval, acuminate at the ends, finely often doubly 

 serrate, with straight or incurved glandular teeth, and slightly divided 

 usually only above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad acuminate 

 lobes; about one-third grown when the flowers open late in May or 

 early in June, and then very thin, light yellow-green and roughened 

 -above by short white hairs and paler and sparingly villose on the 

 midribs below, and at maturity thin, yellow-green and scabrate on 

 the upper surface, pale and almost glabrous on the lower surface, 

 4-6 cm. long and 3-5 cm. wide, with thin prominent midribs and 

 primary veins; petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined nearly to 

 the middle, densely villose early in the season, becoming nearly 

 glabrous, glandular, with numerous persistent glands, 1.2-2 cm. in 

 length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, concave-cuneate at the 




236 proceedings op the academy of [March. 



base, coarsely serrate, often 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide. Flowers 

 1.8 cm. in diameter, on short slender villose pedicels, in small com- 

 pact hairy mostly 5-7-flowered crowded corymbs, with conspicuous 

 oblong-obovate to linear glandular-serrate bracts and bractlets 

 fading brown and persistent until the flowers open, the lower peduncle^ 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, coated 

 with matted pale hairs, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, finely 

 glandular-serrate, glabrous on the outer surface, slightly villose 

 on the inner surface, refiexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anther- 

 very large, pale cream color; styles 3 or 4, surrounded at the base 

 by a broad ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening early in October 

 and generally persistent after the leaves fall, on short stout villose 

 erect pedicels, in mostly 2-5-fruited clusters, short-oblong to sub- 

 globose, truncate at the apex, rounded or flattened at the base, russet- 

 green with a dark russet-red cheek, marked by numerous dark dots. 

 1.2-1.7 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a wide 

 deep cavity pointed in the bottom, and spreading and refiexed per- 

 sistent lobes; flesh thin, rather juicy, light yellow-green; nutlets 

 3 or 4 usually 3. broad and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad low ridge, 6.5-7 mm. long and 5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1-2 m. high, with small spreading stems, and stout nearly 

 straight branchlets dark orange-green, villose and marked by pale 

 lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark brown or purple and 

 lustrous in their first season and darker-colored the following year, 

 and armed with occasional slender straight purple spines 4-5 cm. long. 



Hillsides, Riverview Park, Allegheny City, Allegheny County, 

 O. E. Jennings and Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 54 type) May 24, 1900 

 O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, October 8, 1906, 0. E 

 and Grace K. Jennings, June 8 and October 14, 1907. 

 9. Crataegus contortula n. sp. 



Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, rounded or abruptly cuneate 

 at the wide base, finely doubly serrate, with straight glandular teeth, 

 and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of small acute lateral lobes ; 

 nearly fully grown when the flowers open about the 20th of May and 

 then thin, yellow-green and roughened above by short white hairs and 

 villose on the midribs and veins below, and at maturity thin, yellow- 

 green and scabrate on the upper surface and still hairy on the lower 

 surface on the prominent midribs and thin primary veins; petioles 

 slender, slightly wing-margined at the apex, glandular, with minute 

 persistent glands, villose early in the season, becoming nearly gla- 

 brous, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



rounded at the base, coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and often 

 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 cm. wide. Flowers 1.5-1.8 cm. in diameter on 

 short stout pedicels thickly coated with long white glandular hairs, 

 in small compact 3-5-flowered corymbs, with conspicuous glandular 

 bracts and bractlets; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, villose, the lobes 

 abruptly narrowed from broad bases, long, foliaceous, laciniately 

 glandular-serrate above the middle, glabrous on the outer surface, 

 slightly hairy on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 10; anthers cream color; styles 5, surrounded at the base by a narrow 

 ring of pale tomentum. Fruit ripening in October, on stout elongated 

 hairy pedicels, in mostly 2-4-fruited clusters, subglobose to short- 

 oblong, green slightly blotched with red (September 6), about 

 1 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a wide 

 shallow cavity broad in the bottom, and spreading often deciduous 

 lobes; flesh thin, green, dry and hard; nutlets 5, gradually narrowed 

 and rounded at the ends, narrower at the apex than at the base, 

 5-5.5 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1 m. high or less, with small contorted intricately branched 

 stems, and slender branchlets orange-green and coated with long 

 white hairs when they first appear, still more or less hairy and dark 

 chestnut brown at the end of their first season and dark gray-brown 

 and glabrous the following year, and armed with numerous slender 

 straight spines 1.5-2 cm. long. 



Rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County; rare; B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 15 type) May 25, 1908, September 6, 1909. 

 10. Crataegus callista n. sp. 



Leaves broadly ovate and rounded at the base to rhombic, acute 

 and often short-pointed at the apex, sharply often doubly serrate, 

 with straight glandular teeth, and divided above the middle into 3 

 or 4 pairs of short broad acute lobes; nearly fully grown when the 

 flowers open about the 20th of May and then thin, light yellow-green 

 and roughened above by short white hairs, and slightly hairy below on 

 the slender midribs and primary veins, and at maturity thick, yellow- 

 green and scabrate on the upper surface, scabrate and still hairy 

 on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm wide; petioles stout, 

 narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, glandular, with numerous 

 persistent glands, villose early in the season, becoming glabrous, 

 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, trun- 

 cate or rounded at the base, coarsely serrate, more deeply lobed and 

 often 6-6.5 cm. long and broad, with stout broadly winged conspicu- 

 ously glandular petioles. Flowers 1.8-2 cm. in diameter, on stout 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [March, 



sparingly villose pedicels, in small compact 3-5-flowered corymbs, 

 the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube nar- 

 rowly obconic, coated with matted pale hairs, the lobes gradually 

 narrowed from the base, long, slender, acuminate, glandular-serrate 

 above the middle, slightly hairy, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 

 10; anthers pale yellow; styles 3-5, surrounded at the base by a 

 broad ring of white hairs. Fruit ripening early in October, on short 

 stout hairy pedicels, in few-fruited erect clusters, oblong, full and 

 rounded at the ends, orange-red, 1-1.2 cm. long and 8-9 mm. in 

 diameter; calyx prominent, with a wide deep cavity, and enlarged 

 spreading lobes villose and dark red on the upper surface below the 

 middle; flesh thin, yellow, dry and hard; nutlets 3-5, usually 3 or 

 4, narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, with a broad 

 doubly grooved ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1-2 m. high, with numerous small stems, and stout slightly 

 zigzag branchlets dark orange-green marked by pale lenticels and 

 slightly hairy when they first appear, becoming bright chestnut brown, 

 lustrous and glabrous at the end of their first season and dark gray 

 the following year, and armed with numerous slender slightly curved 

 purple spines 2.5-3.5 cm. long. 



Thickets near Rockhill Station, Bucks County, C. D. Fretz and 

 C. S. Sargent, (No. 155 type) September 17, 1902, C. D. Fretz, May 

 22, 1903. 

 11. Crataegus alpista a. sp. 



Leaves ovate to oval, acuminate, gradually or abruptly narrowed 

 at the base, sharply often doubly serrate, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided into 5 or 6 pairs of slender acuminate 

 lateral lobes, yellow-green and covered above by short white hairs 

 and slightly villose on the midribs and veins below when the flowers 

 open about the 20th of May; mature leaves not collected. Flowers 

 1.8-2 cm. in diameter, on short stout densely villose pedicels, in 

 compact 3-5-flowered corymbs, with conspicuous glandular bracts and 

 bractlets; calyx-tube broadly obconic, coated with matted white 

 haire, the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, long, acuminate, 

 glandular-serrate above the middle, villose on the outer surface, 

 glabrous on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; 

 anthers cream color; styles 3 or 4. Fruit ripening in October, on 

 elongated slender nearly glabrous pedicels, in few-fruited erect clus- 

 ters, ovate, gradually narrowed and rounded at the apex, truncate at 

 the base, dull red blotched with green, slightly hairy toward the apex, 

 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short hairy tube, a 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



deep narrow cavity tomentose in the bottom, and spreading often 

 deciduous lobes; flesh thin, green and firm; nutlets 3 or 4, gradually 

 narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, with a broad 

 high grooved ridge, 6-6.5 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1.5-2 m. high, with slender stems, and stout zigzag branch- 

 lets dark olive green and covered with long pale hairs when they first 

 appear, becoming light chestnut brown, lustrous, glabrous, and 

 marked by dark lenticels in their first season and dull green the fol- 

 lowing year, and armed with very numerous slender straight or slightly 

 curved purple spines 2.5-4 cm. long. 



Rocky knolls, Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 

 314 type) May 20, 1906, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, May 27, 1908. 

 12. Crataegus fortunata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the calyx-lobes. Leaves 

 oval to slightly obovate, acute at the ends and usually 3.5 cm. long 

 and 2.5 cm. wide, to broadly ovate and acute at the apex, abruptly 

 cuneate at the base and usually 3-3.5 cm. long and broad, finely often 

 doubly serrate, with short straight or incurved glandular teeth, and 

 sometimes slightly divided above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of short 

 broad acuminate lobes; deeply tinged with red when they unfold, 

 nearly fully grown when the flowers open from the middle to the 

 20th of May and then light yellow-green and smooth above and pale 

 below, and at maturity thin, dark yellow and lustrous on the upper 

 surface, very pale and yellow below, with thin prominent midribs 

 and primary veins, and conspicuous reticulate veinlets; petioles slen- 

 der, narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, glandular, with 

 minute deciduous glands, 1-1.8 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots broadly ovate, rounded at the wide base, more coarsely serrate 

 and more deeply lobed, and often 4-5 cm. long and wide. Flowers 

 2 cm. in diameter, on short slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 

 6-12-flowered corymbs, with oblong-obovate to linear glandular- 

 serrate bracts and bractlets fading brown and persistent until the 

 flowers open, the long lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; 

 calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes long, wide, coarsely glandular- 

 serrate, glabrous on the outer surface, sparingly villose on the inner 

 surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers dark rose color; 

 styles 2 or 3, usually 3, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring of 

 pale tomentum. Fruit ripening late in October, on short slender 

 erect or spreading pedicels, in compact usually 4-9-fruited clusters, 

 short-oblong to slightly obovate, full and rounded at the ends, bright 

 canary yellow, marked by numerous large dark dots, 1-1.4 cm. in 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, a deep narrow cavity, 

 and small spreading and reflexed lobes ; flesh yellow, succulent, juicy, 

 bitter and acid ; nutlets 2 or 3, rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, 

 with a broad slightly grooved ridge, 6.5-7 mm. long, and 4-4.5 mm. 

 wide. 



A round-headed shrub 2-3 m. high, with stout much-branched 

 stems covered with close light gray bark, and slender nearly straight 

 branchlets, dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming bright chestnut brown and very lustrous in 

 their first season and dark red-brown the following year, and armed 

 with very numerous slender straight purple shining spines pointing 

 toward the base of the branch. 



Open pastures, Washington County, Charleroi, O. E. Jennings and 

 Grace E. Kinzer, (No. 34 type) October 7, 1905, May 21, 1906, O. E. 

 Jennings, May 21 and October 14, 1907. Hillside above Twilight, 

 O. E. Jennings, (No. 52) May 21, 1906, and half a mile west of Belle 

 Vernon, O. E. Jennings, (No. 53) October 14, 1907, are probably of 

 this species. 

 13. Crataegus luteola n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves and 

 calyx-lobes. Leaves oval to ovate, acute or acuminate, concave- 

 cuneate at the base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with broad glan- 

 dular teeth, and slightly divided above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of 

 broad acuminate lobes; more than half-grown when the flowers 

 open about the middle of May and then thin, dark yellow-green, 

 very smooth and slightly hairy on the midribs above and pale 

 and glabrous below, and at maturity rather thick, dark yellow-green 

 on the upper surface, light yellow-green on the lower surface, 

 4-5 cm. long and 3-4 cm. wide, with thick midribs, slender 

 primary veins and conspicuous reticulate veinlets; petioles stout, 

 narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, slightly hairy on the 

 upper side while young, soon becoming glabrous, glandular, with 

 minute persistent glands, 8-10 mm. in length; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots ovate, abruptly cuneate at the base, more coarsely serrate and 

 more deeply lobed, and often 6 cm. long and 5 cm. wide, with stouter 

 broadly winged petioles. Flowers 1.8 cm. in diameter, on short 

 slender pedicels, in small compact mostly 5- or 6-flowered corymbs, 

 with large oblong acuminate glandular-serrate bracts and bractlets 

 fading brown and often persistent until the flowers open, the short 

 lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly 

 obconic, the lobes separated by wide sinuses, short, broad, acuminate, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



entire or glandular-serrate near the apex, glabrous on the outer sur- 

 face, furnished on the inner surface with a few pale hairs, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 6-10; anthers light pink; styles 3. Fruit 

 ripening early in October, on short stout erect pedicels, in few-fruited 

 clusters, subglobose to slightly obovate, light canary yellow, 1-1.2 cm. 

 long, 8-10 mm. in diameter, calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, 

 a deep narrow cavity, and deciduous lobes; flesh green, dry and hard; 

 nutlets 3, rounded at the ends, slightly ridged on the back, about 

 6 mm. long and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with small spreading stems covered with 

 dark gray bark scaly near the ground, small spreading branches, and 

 slender nearly straight branchlets dark orange-green and marked by 

 pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming bright chestnut brown 

 and lustrous in their first season and dull red-brown the following 

 year, and armed with slender straight chestnut brown shining spines 

 1.5-2.5 cm. long. 



Hillsides, very common; Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. 

 Smith, (No. 304 type) May 19 and 20, 1906, October 8, 1907. 



14. Crataegus Jenningsii n. sp. 



Glabrous. Leaves ovate, acute or aguminate, gradually or abruptly 

 narrowed and concave-cuneate, or broad and rounded at the base» 

 coarsely often doubly serrate, with short glandular teeth, and slightly 

 divided into 4 or 5 pairs of short acuminate lateral lobes ; about one- 

 third grown when the flowers open late in May and then very thin, light 

 yellow-green and smooth above and pale bluish green below, and 

 at maturity thick, dark blue-green and lustrous on the upper surface, 

 paler on the lower surface, 5-7 cm. long and 4.5-5 cm. wide, with 

 stout midribs, and thin primary veins arching obliquely to the 

 points of the lobes; petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined to 

 below the middle, glandular with persistent glands, often rose color 

 in the autumn, 1.5-2 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots usually 

 concave-cuneate at the broad base, coarsely serrate and often 8-9 cm. 

 long and 7-8 cm. wide, with prominent midribs and primary veins and 

 stout rose-colored conspicuously glandular petioles. Flowers 1.8-2 

 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in small mostly 5-9-flowered 

 corymbs, with small linear-obovate to linear glandular bracts and 

 bractlets fading brown and generally deciduous before the petals 

 fall, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube 

 narrowly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, slender, 

 coarsely glandular-serrate at the acuminate apex, reflexed after 

 16 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



anthesis; stamens 8-10; anthers faintly tinged with pink; styles 3 

 or 4, usually 3, surrounded at the base by a narrow ring of pale hairs. 

 Fruit ripening late in October, on slender erect or spreading pedicels, 

 in generally 5- or 6-fruited clusters, depressed-ovate to short-oblong, 

 flattened at the ends, russet-green to dark russet-red or bronze color, 

 marked by numerous pale dots, 1.2-1.4 cm. long and rather broader 

 than high; calyx little enlarged, with a narrow deep cavity pointed 

 in the bottom, and small spreading and reflexed persistent lobes; 

 flash thin, hard, light greenish 3-ellow; nutlets 3 or 4, gradually nar- 

 rowed and rounded at the ends, rather broader at the apex than at 

 the base, ridged on the back, with a broad low slightly grooved ridge, 

 7-8 mm. long, and 4.5-5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with stout ascending stems covered with 

 dark gray bark, stout nearly straight branchlets light orange-brown 

 and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming dark 

 chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and dull reddish 

 brown the following year, and armed with few stout straight purple 

 shining spines 3.5-4 cm. long. 



Hillsides, Kittanning, Armstrong County, 0. E. Jennings, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 58 type) October 7, 1906, 0. E. Jennings, 

 May 27, 1907, 0. E. and Grace K. Jennings, October 7, 1907, (No. 51, 

 with calyx-lobes somewhat dilated toward the apex) O. E. Jennings, 

 October 14, 1905, May 28, 1906, O. E. Jennings, B. H. Smith and 

 C. S. Sargent, October 7, 1906. 



In associating the name of this species with that of its discoverer, 

 Dr. Otto E. Jennings, head of the Botanical Department of the Carnegie 

 Museum at Pittsburg, I am glad to express my admiration for his 

 skill and industry in making known the flora of western Pennsylvania. 

 15. Crataegus soabra n. sp. 



Leaves ovate, acute or acuminate, cuneate at the base, coarsely 

 often doubly serrate, with wide straight glandular teeth, and slightly 

 divided above the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of short broad lobes ; coated 

 with soft white hairs when they unfold, about one-third grown when 

 the flowers open the middle of May and then thin, dark yellow-green, 

 and roughened above by short white hairs and pale and slightly 

 villose along the midribs and veins below, and at maturity thin, dark 

 green and scabrous on the upper surface, pale yellow-green and sca- 

 brous on the lower surface, 5-6 cm. long and 4-5 cm. wide, with stout 

 midribs and primary veins; petioles stout, wing-margined nearly to 

 the middle, conspicuously glandular, 2-2.5 cm. in length; stipules 

 lanceolate, more or less falcate, glandular-serrate, large and con- 




1910.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



spicuous, sometimes persistent until the petals fall; leaves on vigorous 

 shoots usually rounded at the broad base, more coarsely serrate and 

 more deeply lobed, and often 7-8 cm. long and 6-6.5 cm. wide, with 

 lunate foliaceous coarsely glandular stipules. Flowers on short 

 stout densely villose pedicels, in small compact mostly 3-5-flowered 

 corymbs, with narrow oblong-obovate conspicuously glandular bracts 

 and bractlets fading brown and persistent until the petals fall; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, densely coated with long matted pale hairs, 

 the lobes short, broad, acuminate, coarsely glandular-serrate above 

 the middle, glabrous on the outer surface, villose on the inner surface, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 5-10; anthers pale pink; styles 

 3 or 4. Fruit ripening early in October, on short slender pedicels, 

 in few-fruited clusters, subglobose to short-oblong, green, about 

 1.2 cm. in diameter; flesh thin, green and hard; nutlets 3 or 4, 

 broad and rounded at the apex, gradually narrowed and rounded at 

 the base, slightly ridged on the back, with a low narrow ridge, 6-7 

 mm. long and 4-4.5 mm. wide. 



A shrub 1-2 m. high, with ''small erect stems and branches, slender 

 branchlets, dark orange-green tinged with red and marked by 

 pale lenticels when they first appear, light chestnut brown and lus- 

 trous in their first season and dull red-brown the following year, 

 and armed with very numerous slender straight or slightly curved 

 chestnut brown shining spines 2.5-3 cm. long. 



Rocky knoll, Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 313 

 type) May 20, 1906, October 8, 1908, (No. 306) B. H. Smith, May 19, 

 1906, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, May 27, 1908. 

 16. Crataegus gratiosa n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the leaves. Leaves ovate to oval, acute and often short-pointed 

 at the apex, cuneate at the base, coarsely often doubly serrate, with 

 straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 3 or 4 pairs of 

 short broad lateral lobes; when they unfold slightly tinged with red 

 and coated above with short white hairs, nearly fully grown when the 

 flowers open at the end of May and then thin, yellow-green and still 

 hairy above, and at maturity thick, yellow-green and scabrate on the 

 upper surface, paler and lustrous on the lower surface, 3.5-4.5 cm. 

 long and 2-3.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles 

 slender, slightly wing-margined to below the middle, glandular, 

 1-2 cm. in length ; leaves on vigorous shoots broadly ovate, rounded 

 or very abruptly cuneate at the wide base, more coarsely serrate, 

 and often deeply lobed, with narrow acuminate lobes, their petioles 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



stout, broadly winged and conspicuously glandular. Flowers 1.8 

 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, in wide compact 3-7, usually 

 5-7-flowered corymbs, with large conspicuous viscid glandular bracts 

 and bractlets mostly deciduous before the flowers open; calyx-tube 

 broadly obconic, the lobes gradually narrowed from wide bases, 

 short, acuminate, sharply glandular-serrate near the middle, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers pink; styles 2 or 3. Fruit 

 ripening in October, on elongated slender erect or spreading pedicels, 

 in mostly 3- or 4-fruited clusters, slightly obovate, full and rounded 

 at the apex, green blotched with red (September 7th), 8-10 mm. long 

 and nearly as broad; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a deep 

 narrow cavity, and spreading and reflexed lobes; flesh thin, green and 

 hard; nutlets 2 or 3, rounded at the ends, rounded and ridged on the 

 back, with a broad low slightly grooved ridge, 5-6 mm. long and about 

 4 mm. wide. 



A narrow shrub rarely 1 m. high, with very slender erect stems 

 and branches, and slender nearly straight branchlets orange-brown 

 and marked by orange-colored lenticels when they first appear, becom- 

 ing chestnut brown and very lustrous in their first season and gray- 

 brown the following year, and armed with numerous slender straight 

 chestnut brown shining spines 3-4 cm. long. 



Fields on hills above Bedford Springs, Bedford County, B. H. 

 Smith and C. S. Sargent, (No. 11 type) May 26, 1908, September 7, 

 1909, B. H. Smith. May 22, 1909. 



10. AxOMAL.E. 



Flowers in 8-15-flowered corymbs; anthers rose color; fruit short- 

 oblong to oval, 1-1.5 cm. in length; nutlets usually marked by 

 obscure ventral depressions; leaves cuneate. 

 Stamens 20; leaves broad-ovate; fruit oval, orange-red; arbor- 

 escent 1. C. putata. 



Stamens 15-20; leaves ovate to oval; fruit short-oblong, dark 

 red; shrubby, spreading into large thickets 2. C. errata. 



1. Crataegus putata n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the upper surface 

 of the young leaves. Leaves broadly ovate, acuminate, gradually 

 or abruptly cuneate at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with 

 straight glandular teeth, and slightly divided into 4 or 5 pairs of 

 small spreading lateral lobes ; about half-grown when the flowers open 

 at the end of May and then thin, yellow-green, smooth, lustrous, and 

 slightly hairy along the midribs above and pale below, and at maturity 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



thick, dark yellow-green and glabrous on the upper surface, pale 

 bluish green on the lower surface, 6-7 cm. long and 4.5-6 cm. wide, 

 with thin midribs and primary veins; petioles slender, narrowly 

 wing-margined nearly to the base, often rose color in the autumn, 

 1.8-2.2 cm. in length. Flowers 2 cm. in diameter, on long slender 

 pedicels, in mostly 8-12-flowered corymbs, with oblong-obovate 

 often falcate to linear glandular-serrate deep rose-colored bracts 

 and bractlets mostly persistent until the flowers open; calyx-tube 

 broadly obconic, the lobes separated by wide. sinuses, gradually nar- 

 rowed from the base, long, slender, red and acuminate at the apex, 

 minutely glandular-serrate below the middle, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 20; anthers light rose color; styles 2 or 3. Fruit ripening 

 early in October on slender pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, oval, 

 orange-red, lustrous, marked by many large dark dots, about 1 cm. 

 long and 8 mm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short tube, 

 a deep narrow cavity pointed in the bottom, and small reflexed closely 

 appressed persistent lobes; flesh thin, yellow, dry and mealy; nutlets 

 2 or 3, usually 3, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged 

 on the back, with a broad slightly grooved ridge, marked on the inner 

 faces by slight depressions, 6-6.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A tree 5 m. high, with a trunk sometimes 1.5 dm. in diameter, 

 covered with scaly bark, and stout nearly straight branchlets, light 

 orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they first appear, 

 becoming light chestnut brown and lustrous in their first season and 

 armed with numerous stout or slender nearly straight purple shining 

 spines 4-5 cm. long, often pointed toward the base of the branch, and 

 persistent and becoming branched on older stems. 



Virginia, near Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 41 

 type) May 28 and October 1, 1907. , 

 2. Crataegus errata n- sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the young leaves. 

 Leaves ovate to oval, acute or acuminate, gradually narrowed and 

 concave-cuneate at the base, finely often doubly serrate, with straight 

 glandular teeth, and slightly divided usually only above the middle 

 into 3 or 4 pairs of small acuminate lobes ; more than half-grown when 

 the flowers open about the 10th of June and then light yellow-green, 

 smooth and slightly hairy along the midribs above and lighter yellow- 

 green and glabrous below, and at maturity rather thick, dark yellow- 

 green, smooth, lustrous and glabrous on the upper surface, light 

 yellow-green on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3-3.5 cm. wide, 

 with thick midribs, and slender primary veins; petioles stout, slightly 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



wing-margined at the apex, often rose color below the middle in the 

 autumn, 1-1.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots often rounded 

 at the broad base, more coarsely serrate and more deeply lobed, and 

 often 5-6 cm. long and broad. Flowers 1.8 cm. in diameter, on long 

 stout pedicels, in mostly 12-15-flowered corymbs, the elongated lower 

 peduncles from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 the lobes gradually narrowed from the base, long, slender, acuminate, 

 finely glandular-serrate near the middle, reflexed after anthesis; 

 petals tinged with pink; stamens 15-20; anthers bright pink; styles 

 3 or 4. Fruit ripening the end of October, on long stout pedicels, 

 in drooping few-fruited clusters, short-oblong, full and rounded at 

 the ends, dark red, lustrous, marked by small pale lenticels, 1-1.2 

 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a wide deep cavity pointed in 

 the bottom, and reflexed persistent lobes dark red on the upper side 

 below the middle; flesh thin, dry and mealy; nutlets 3 or 4, narrowed 

 and rounded at the apex, acute at the base, ridged on the back, with 

 a broad Low ridge, 6-7 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide, and furnished 

 with very shallow depressions on the inner faces. 



A broad shrub 3-4 m. high, with small steins covered below with 

 pale scaly bark and smooth above, and spreading into large thickets, 

 and stout slightly zigzag branchlets light yellow-green and marked by 

 pale lenticels when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown 

 and lustrous in Mieir first season and light reddish-brown the following 

 year, and armed with stout straight or slightly curved purplish shining 

 spines 2-3.5 cm. long, and numerous and persistent on old stems. 



Low moist rich soil, Keyser Valley, near Scranton, Lackawanna 

 County, common, A. Twining, (No. 47 type) June 13 and October 

 22, 1907. 



B. Nutlets with longitudinal cavities on their ventral faces (Group 

 Tomentosse). 



11. Tomentosse. 



Fruit obovate to subglobose or short-oblong, orange-red or scarlet, 

 becoming soft and succulent at maturity, 6-12 mm. in diameter; 

 nutlets 2 or 3, obtuse at the ends, prominently ridged on the 

 back; flowers small, opening late, in tomentose or viilose rarely 

 glabrous corymbs; leaves thin to subcoriaceous. 

 Leaves thin with midribs and veins only slightly impressed on 



their upper surface; stamens 20. 

 Corymbs viilose; leaves pubescent below during the season. 



Anthers rose color 1. C. tomentosa. 



Anthers pale yellow 2. C. strudilis. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Corymbs and mature leaves glabrous. 



Flowers in many-flowered corymbs ; young leaves glabrous 



below; anthers white 3. C. tanwphylla. 



Flowers in few-flowered corymbs; young leaves villose 



below; anthers pink 4. C. propixa. 



Leaves subcoriaceous, with midribs and veins deeply impressed 

 on their upper surface. 

 Stamens 20; anthers pink. 



Pedicels stout, densely villose; leaves oblong-ovate to 

 obovate, acuminate, slightly hairy on the lower surface; 

 corymbs many-flowered; calyx-tube villose. 



5. C. succalenta. 



Pedicels slender, only slightly hairy; leaves obovate, mostly 



rounded at the apex; corymbs narrow, 10-1 5- flowered; 



calyx-tube glabrous 6. C. vaga. 



Stamens 10-15; anthers rose color; pedicels and leaves glabrous. 



7. C. kctifica. 

 Stamens 10 or less. 



Anthers pale pink; calyx-tube of the flower glabrous; fruit 



ovate 8. C. diaphora. 



Anthers yellow; calyx-tube of the flower slightly villose; 

 fruit subglobose to short-oblong 9. C. agaia. 



1. Crataegus tomentosa Linnaeus. 



Spec, 467 (1753); Sargent, Silva N. Am., IV, 101, t. 183; Proc. Rochester 

 Acad. Sci., IV, 132; Man., 492, f. 406; Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 653; Rep. Geolog. Surv. Michigan, 1906, 560; No. 4 Ontario Nat. Sci. 

 Bull., 75; Rep. Missouri Bot. Gard., XIX, 116. 



Crataegus Ghapmani, var. Plukenetii Eggleston, Rhodora, X, 83 (190S); 

 Gray Man., ed. 7, 478. 



"Scottsdown Road," Allegheny County, J. A. Shafer, June 3, 1903; 

 also New York to Missouri and western North Carolina. 



2. Crataegus structilis Ashe. 



Jour. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc, XIX, 12 (1903); Sargent, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1905, 656; Rep. Geolog. Surv. Michigan, 1906, 562; Bull. 

 Ont. Nat. Sci. Soc, 1908, 76; Bull. N. Y. State Mus., CXXII, 77. 



Orbisonia, Huntingdon County, B. H. Smith, (No. 311) May 20, 

 1906, October 8, 1907, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, May 27, 1908; 

 also in Berks County, and in western New York to southern Ontario 

 and eastern Michigan. 



3. Crataegus tanuphylla n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the inner surface of 

 the calyx-lobes. Leaves oblong-obovate, acuminate, gradually nar- 

 rowed to the entire base, finely and often doubly serrate above, and 

 slightly divided above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs of small acuminate 

 lobes; more than half-grown when the flowers open and then thin, 

 dark dull yellow-green above and paler below, and at maturity 6-9 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, wing-margined nearly to the base, 1.5-2.5 cm. in 

 length. Flowers 1.2-1.5 cm. in diameter, on long slender pedicels, 

 in wide lax mostly 15-20-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves ; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes 

 gradually narrowed from wide bases, coarsely glandular-serrate above 

 the middle, densely villose on the inner surf ace, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 20; anthers white; styles 2 or 3, usually 2. Fruit ripening 

 in October, on slender drooping pedicels, in many-fruited clusters, 

 short-oblong, full and rounded at the ends, crimson, lustrous, about 

 1 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a narrow shallow cavity; 

 and spreading often deciduous lobes; flesh j^ellow; nutlets 2 or 3, 

 rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, slightly penetrated on the 

 inner faces by small irregular grooves, 5-6 mm. long and 3-3.5 mm. 

 wide. 



A tree, with slender slightly zigzag branchlets light orange-green 

 when they first appear, becoming dark chestnut brown and lustrous 

 in their first season and armed with numerous stout straight chestnut- 

 brown spines 3.5-4.5 cm. long. 



Hollow back of cemetery near Staunton Avenue, Pittsburg, Alle- 

 gheny County, J. A. Shafer, (No. 21 type) October 1901, May 1902. 



This species differs from all the other thin-leaved Tomentosse by 

 the absence of hail's from the leaves and corymbs. 



4. Crataegus propixa n. sp. 



Leaves broadly obovate, acute or acuminate, concave-cuneate at 

 the entire base, finely often doubly serrate above, with straight glan- 

 dular teeth, and slightly divided above the middle into 4 or 5 pairs 

 of small acuminate spreading lobes; nearly fully grown when the 

 flowers open in the first week of June and then thin, dark yellow- 

 green, smooth, lustrous and slightly hairy along the midribs above 

 and pale and villose on the midribs and veins below, and at maturity 

 thin, dark yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on the upper surface, 

 pale and scabrate on the lower surface, 8-9 cm. long and 6-6.5 cm. 

 wide, with thin light yellow midribs and primary veins; petioles 

 slender, narrowly wing-margined to the middle, often rose color in the 

 autumn, 1-1.3 cm. in length. Floivers 1.5-1.6 cm. in diameter, on 

 long stout glabrous pedicels, in narrow mostly 10-15-flowered corymbs, 

 the elongated lower peduncles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx- 

 tube narrowly obconic, glabrous, the lobes gradually narrowed from 

 the base, long, slender, acuminate, laciniately glandular-serrate 

 above the middle, glabrous on the outer surface, sparingly villose 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; anthers 

 pink; styles 2 or 3, surrounded at the base by a few pale hairs. Fruit 

 ripening the end of September, on slender drooping pedicels, in few- 

 fruited clusters, subglobose to ovate, crimson, lustrous, marked by 

 large pale dots, 7-8 mm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a short 

 tube, a deep narrow cavity pointed in the bottom, and small recurved 

 persistent lobes; flesh thin, yellow, soft and succulent; nutlets 2 or 3, 

 full and rounded at the ends, slightly ridged on the back, with a low 

 narrow ridge, penetrated on the inner faces by broad shallow cavities, 

 5-5.5 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 2-3 m. high, with several stout nearly straight stems, and 

 glabrous branchlets light orange-green and marked by pale lenticels 

 when they first appear and light chestnut brown and very lustrous 

 the following season, and armed with numerous slender straight or 

 slightly curved purple shining spines 4.5-5.5 cm. long and com- 

 pounded and persistent on old stems. 



Hillsides at the base of Campbell's Ledge, near Scranton, Luzerne 

 County, A. Twining, (No. 36 type) June 8 and September 28, 1907. 



5. Crataegus sucoulenta Link. 



Handbook, II, 76 (1831); Sargent, Silva N. Am., XIII, 139, t. 131; Proc. 

 Rochester Acad. Sci., IV, 133; Man., 497, f. 411; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1905, 75; Bull. U. S. State Mus., CV, 72, CXXII, SO; Ont. Nat. 

 Sci. Bull., 1908, 92. 



Township west of Carnot, Allegheny County, J. E. Shafer, (No. 

 E 4) May 21 and October 17, 1902; also southern Ontario and western 

 New York to southern New England and eastern Pennsylvania. 



6. Crataegus vaga n. sp. 



Leaves obovate, acute or rounded and often abruptly short-pointed 

 at' the apex, cuneate at the entire base, finally often doubly serrate 

 above, with straight glandular teeth, and very slightly divided above 

 the middle into 3 or 4 pairs of small acute lobes; less than half grown 

 when the flowers open late in May and then thin, yellow-green, 

 smooth, lustrous, and slightly hairy along the midribs above and light 

 blue-green and sparingly villose along the midribs and veins below, and 

 at maturity thick, dark yellow-green, very lustrous and glabrous on 

 the upper surface, still slightly hairy below on the stout conspicuous 

 midribs and primary veins, 4.5-6 cm. long and 3.5-4.5 cm. wide; 

 petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, slightly 

 hairy on the upper side, soon becoming glabrous, often red in the 

 autumn, 1-1.5 cm. in length. Flowers 1.6-1.8 cm. in diameter, on 

 long slender pedicels furnished with occasional white hairs, in narrow 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



mostly 10-15-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils 

 of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes wide, elong- 

 ated, coarsely glandular-serrate, glabrous on the outer surface, villose 

 on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; stamens 20; anthers 

 pale pink; styles 2 or 3. Fruit ripening late in September, on long 

 drooping pedicels, in few-fruited clusters, ovate to oval, orange-red, 

 lustrous, 7-8 mm. long and 6-7 mm. wide; calyx prominent, with a 

 short tube, a deep narrow cavity, and spreading often deciduous lobes; 

 flesh thin, yellow, dry and mealy; nutlets 2 or 3, rounded at the apex, 

 gradually narrowed at the base, only slightly ridged on the back, 

 penetrated on the inner faces by long deep cavities, about 5 mm. long 

 and 3.5-4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with small stems spreading into large dense 

 round-topped thickets, small erect branches, and stout nearly straight 

 branchlets dark orange-green and marked by pale lenticels when they 

 first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and very lustrous in their 

 first season and darker-colored the following year, and armed with 

 numerous slender straight or slightly curved light chestnut brown 

 shining spines 3.5-4 mm. long. 



Borders of swamps and in oak woods near Bedford Springs, Bedford 

 County, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, (Xo. 13 type) May 26, 1908, 

 B. H. Smith, September 17, 1908. May 22, 1909; meadows, valley of 

 the Little Juniata River below Altoona, Blair County, B. H. Smith, 

 (Nos. 267 and 283) May 20, 1905, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 September 25, 1905. 

 7. Crataegus lsetifica n. sp. 



Glabrous with the exception of the hairs on the inner surface of 

 the calyx-lobes. Leaves obovate, broad and rounded or acute and 

 short-pointed at the apex, gradually narrowed to the cuneate base, 

 coarsely often doubly serrate usually only above the middle, with 

 straight glandular teeth, and occasionally slightly lobecl, with broad 

 acute lobes; when the flowers open at the end of May thick, dark 

 yellow-green and very lustrous above and pale below, and at maturity 

 subcoriaceous, glabrous, dark yellow-green, smooth and lustrous on 

 the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3.5-4 

 cm. wide, with stout midribs, and prominent primary veins connected 

 by conspicuous reticulate veinlets and deeply impressed on the upper 

 side of the leaf; petioles stout, narrowly wing-margined nearly to the 

 base, 8-10 mm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, more 

 coarsely serrate, usually acuminate at the apex, 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 

 cm. wide. Flowers 1-1.2 cm. in diameter, on slender pedicels, in 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



crowded very compact 10-22-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles 

 from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, the lobes 

 glandular-serrate, villose on the inner surface, reflexed after anthesis; 

 stamens 10-15; anthers rose color. Fruit ripening at the end of 

 September, on long drooping glabrous pedicels, in many-fruited 

 clusters, subglobose to ovate, full and rouucled at the ends, crimson, 

 lustrous, marked by large pale dots, 1.2-1.4 cm. in diameter; calyx 

 little enlarged, with a deep narrow cavity, and small spreading serrate 

 lobes villose on the upper side; flesh yellow, soft and succulent, nutlets 

 2 or 3, gradually narrowed and rounded at the ends, ridged on the 

 back, with a broad high deeply grooved ridge, only slightly penetrated 

 on the inner face, by short narrow cavities, 5.5-6 mm. long and about 

 4 mm. wide. 



A handsome tree 3-4 m. high, with a short trunk covered with 

 dark scaly bark, large spreading and ascending branches forming a 

 broad symmetrical head, and stout slightly zigzag branchlets, light 

 chestnut-brown and marked by small dark lenticels in their first 

 season and dull gray-brown the following year, and armed with num- 

 erous stout slightly curved chestnut brown shining spines 4-5 cm. 

 long and persistent, compound and very numerous on the trunk and 

 large branches. 



Rich hillsides, Bedford, Bedford County, B. H. Smith and C. S. 

 Sargent, (No. 299 type) September 30, 1905. 



This species is remarkable in the small cavities of the nutlets. 

 8. Crataegus diaphora n. sp. 



Leaves obovate to oval, acute and often short-pointed at the apex, 

 gradually narrowed and cuneate and entire at the base, finely often 

 doubly serrate above, with straight glandular teeth, and occasionally 

 slightly divided above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of small acute 

 lobes; nearly fully grown when the flowers open about the 10th of 

 June and then thin, light yellow-green, smooth, lustrous, and slightly 

 hairy along the midribs above and pale and slightiy hairy in the axils 

 of the leaves below, and at maturity thick, yellow-green, glabrous 

 and lustrous on the upper surface, pale and still slightly hairy on the 

 lower surface, 4-5 cm. long and 3.5-4 cm. wide, with thin midribs 

 and primary veins; petioles slender, slightly wing-margined often to 

 the middle, 1-1.5 cm. in length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, 

 oval to obovate, more coarsely serrate and often 6-7 cm. long and 5-6 

 cm. wide, with stout broadly winged rose-colored petioles. Flowers 

 1.8 cm. in diameter, on long slender glabrcms or occasionally slightly 

 hairy pedicels, in wide lax many-flowered corymbs, the lower pedun- 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



cles from the axils of upper leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, 

 glabrous, the lobes long, slender, acuminate, finely glandular-serrate, 

 glabrous on the outer surface, slightly villose on the inner surface, 

 reflexed after anthesis; stamens 10; anthers pale pink; styles 2 or 3, 

 usually 2. Fruit ripening in October on long slender glabrous pedicels, 

 in many-fruited drooping clusters, ovate, crimson, lustrous, marked 

 by large pale dots, 1.3-1.5 cm. in diameter; calyx prominent, with a 

 short tube, a wide shallow cavity, and spreading often deciduous 

 lobes; flesh thick, yellow, soft and succulent; nutlets usually 2, 

 rounded at the ends, ridged on the back, with a broad low grooved 

 ridge, penetrated on the inner faces by narrow deep cavities, 5-5.6 

 mm. long and about 4 mm. wide. 



A shrub 3-4 m. high, with numerous small stems covered with 

 gray scaly bark, spreading into large thickets, and stout zigzag gla- 

 brous branchlets bright orange-green and marked by pale lenticels 

 when they first appear, becoming bright chestnut brown and lustrous 

 in their first year, and armed with numerous very stout straight 

 chestnut brown shining spines 3.5-6 cm. long and often pointed 

 toward the base of the branch. 



Keyser Valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, (No. 

 48 type) June 13, 1907, A. Twining, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, 

 September 5, 1909. 



9. Crataegus agaia n. sp. 



Leaves obovate to rhombic or oval, acute or acuminate, often 

 short-pointed at the apex, gradually narrowed and cuneate at the 

 entire base, coarsely doubly serrate above, with straight glandular 

 teeth, and slightly divided above the middle into 2 or 3 pairs of small 

 acute lobes; nearly half-grown when the flowers open at the end of 

 May and then thin, yellow-green and roughened above by short 

 white hairs and slightly hairy along the midribs and veins below, 

 and at maturity subcoriaceous, glabrous, dark yellow-green, smooth 

 and lustrous on the upper surface, paler on the lower surface, 5-6 

 cm. long and 4-5 cm. wide, with thin midribs and primary veins; 

 petioles slender, narrowly wing-margined to below the middle, slightly 

 villose early in the season, soon becoming glabrous, 1.5-2 cm. in 

 length; leaves on vigorous shoots thicker, more coarsely serrate and 

 often 7-8 cm. long and 6-7 cm. wide, with stout rose-colored midribs, 

 more prominent veins and stout rose-colored petioles. Flowers 1.8 

 cm. in diameter, on long slender slightly hairy pedicels, in wide lax 

 12-20-flowered corymbs, the lower peduncles from the axils of upper 

 leaves; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, sparingly villose, the lobes 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



broad, short, acuminate, coarsely glandular-serrate above the middle, 

 glabrous on the outer surface, villose on the inner surface, reflexed 

 after anthesis; stamens 8-10; anthers cream color; styles 2 or 3, 

 surrounded at the base by a narrow ring of pale tomentum. Fruit 

 ripening in October, on long slender glabrous or slightly hairy pedicels, 

 in many-fruited clusters, subglobose to short-oblong, full and rounded 

 at the ends, dark crimson, very lustrous, marked by large pale dots, 

 1-1.2 cm. in diameter; calyx little enlarged, with a short tube, a deep 

 narrow cavity pointed and tomentose in the bottom, and spreading 

 reflexed lobes hairy on the upper surface; flesh thick, yellow, soft 

 and succulent; nutlets 2 or 3, broad and rounded at the ends, rounded 

 and ridged on the back, with a broad low grooved ridge, penetrated 

 on the inner faces by broad deep cavities, 6.5-7 mm. long and about 

 4 mm. wide. 



A tree 4-5 m. high, with a short trunk covered with dark gray 

 scaly bark, small spreading branches and stout zigzag glabrous branch- 

 lets, light orange-green and marked by large orange-colored lenticels 

 when they first appear, becoming light chestnut brown and very 

 lustrous in their first season and reddish-brown the following year, 

 and armed with numerous stout or slender chestnut brown shining 

 spines 3.5-6 cm. long. 



Hillsides, Keyser valley, Scranton, Lackawanna County, A. Twining, 

 (No. 50 type) May 25, June 3 and 13, 1907, September 27, 1909, 

 A. Twining, B. H. Smith and C. S. Sargent, September 5, 1909. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



April 5. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-seven persons present. 



The death of Nathaniel E. Janney, a member, March 3, 1910, was 

 announced. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported by 

 the Publication Committee: 



"A new fish of the Genus Paralepis from New Jersey," by Henry 

 W. Fowler and Dr. Richard J. Philips (April 1, 1910). 



"The Polychaetus Annelids dredged by the U. S. S. 'Albatross' off 

 the coast of Southern California in 1904. II: Polynoidse, Aphrcdi- 

 tidae, and Segaleonidse/' by J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. (April 5, 1910). 



The Recording Secretary read the following : 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE I 



;~ 



•J 



l S 



I 



5 



\ 



9 M 8 



II 



* 



(5£V 4 



15 



16 



J7 



• J| ' l8 





19 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE II. 



h 



5 



^mm 



f 



8 



10 



I I 



13 



15 



16 





17 





18 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1910, 



i 



PLATE III. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE IV 



PILSBRY and FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE V. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. L9H i. 



PLATE VI. 



6 



PILSBRY and FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE VII. 



PtLSBRY and FERRISS- MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC ACAD NAT, S< [. PHILJ 



PLAT] VII] 



PILSB1 i i • "' ■ ' '" , 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE IX. 



^5^5^ 



,\\V "— ~- 





8 



PILSBRY and FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 19iO. 



PLATE X. 



PILSBRY and" FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI- PHIL A. 1910. 



PLATE XI. 





vP 



m* 













12 



PILSBRY AND FERR1SS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1910 



PLATE XII. 



2 



- 





^ 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XIII 



PILSBRY and FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1910 



PLATE XIV. 



6 7 



13 



8 



1 2 





^ 



-' 



15 



P1LSBRY AND FERRISS: MOLLUSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN STATES. 






"^^^c^Hp U&^/C**-*****^^ 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



A BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 



OF 



HENRY CADWALADER CHAPMAN, M.D., Sc.D. 



BY 

 EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



Visitors to the library of the Academy in 1868 were likely to 

 encounter a little old man, dressed in gray. If it were a morning in 

 winter he would be found reading the Ledger near the register before 

 going on with the drawing of fossil shells on stone for the American 

 Journal of Conchology. 



He was an enthusiast in his specialty of fossil shells and his work 

 will endure. His health was far from good, and he was wont to say 

 that the compensations the years brought him were the recurring 

 "songs of the birds and the perfume of new mown hay." It is evident, 

 therefore, that he was a poet as well as a geologist. 



His exceedingly frugal lunch would sometimes be eaten at his work 

 table, but he frequently carried his provisions, often a few shellbarks 

 and a pinch of red pepper, in a little basket on his arm to the Penn- 

 sylvania Hospital, where his brother was then apothecary. Here 

 he met the young Chapman for whom he conceived a warm regard, 

 heartily reciprocated, the friendship remaining unbroken until the 

 death of the older man in 1877. It was a striking case of the 

 attraction of opposite:?, their only traits in common being a love 

 of Nature and an eager desire to explore her mysteries. Chapman 

 was strongly influenced by the enthusiasm of the older naturalist. 

 He declared, half seriously, in after years, "he is responsible for all 

 the time I have wasted in the study of natural history." If that be 

 true, Timothy Abbott Conrad is also indirectly responsible for the 

 preparation of this notice, but it cannot be doubted that an important 

 factor in determining Chapman's career, apart from his inherited 

 bent for scientific investigation, was his devotion to Leidy. 



Henry Cadwalader Chapman was born in Philadelphia in the 

 house of his grandmother, Mrs. John Markoe, 1617 Walnut Street, 

 17 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



August 17, 1845. He was the son of George W. Chapman, a lieu- 

 tenant in the United States Navy, and grandson of Dr. Nathaniel 

 Chapman, who, coming from Virginia in the autumn of 1797, had 

 married Miss Rebecca Biddle, a daughter of Colonel Clement Biddle, 

 Commissary General of the Continental Army. In 1813 Dr. Chapman 

 became associated with the Medical Department of the University 

 of Pennsylvania, with which he was connected continuously until 

 1853, as Professor of Materia Medica, the Theory and Practice of 

 Medicine, and of Clinical Medicine. 



Henry's mother was Miss Emily Markoe, the daughter of John 

 Markoe, and granddaughter of Abraham Markoe, the first Captain 

 of the Philadelphia City Troop. She and her family were remark- 

 able for their wit and humor, and her son amply inherited both. 

 His character in early life, and indeed up to the last, was somewhat 

 of a contradiction. While thoroughly enjoying the diversions so 

 liberally supplied by his social position, he early manifested an interest 

 in chemistry and physics. His genial and joyous nature made him 

 one of the most attractive of boys, and as a young man his society 

 was sought by many older than himself. These attractive qualities 

 persisted, with no sign of diminution, throughout his mature years. 



His early education was received at the Faires Classical Institute, 

 then located at No. 238 Dean Street, now officially Camac Street, but 

 coming to be known popularly as Club Alley. The Institute was 

 at the time the most exclusive, as well as one of the best, schools in 

 Philadelphia. 



The Rev. John W. Faires, Principal of the Institute, became an 

 instructor of boys in 1831, his first pupils being William Cadwalader, 

 later a member of the Academy, and his cousin J. Williams Biddle. 

 During a period of more than fifty years Dr. Faires had a successful 

 career as a teacher, his alumni including many of the most distin- 

 guished men of the city and state. He was a strict disciplinarian 

 and he held unflinchingly to the doctrine that to spare the rod was 

 to spoil the child. The daily floggings which took place in the presence 

 of the higher classes, and of which Hemy Chapman, because of his 

 love of fun and impatience of discipline, received his full share as the 

 penalty of his larks, would be regarded now, when the independence 

 of "the little child" is held to be the paramount interest of society, 

 as not far short of brutal. The master had a collection of rattans in 

 his desk adapted to the size and age of the culprits, and as he made 

 his selection for the particular one in hand and bent it to test its 

 elasticity, the boy enjoyed a few moments of anticipation of what 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



was coming to him. The punishment was, however, rarely or never 

 resented, the master's sense of justice and his desire to make boys 

 truthful and honest being fully recognized. While fighting and 

 disorderly behavior, even at recess, were forbidden, the Doctor realized 

 that the best way for the boys to settle some of their differences was 

 for one or the other to secure a black eye or a bloody nose, before he 

 descended in his wrath to stop the combat. The students of the 

 school at the period referred to were the best prepared of those apply- 

 ing for admission to the University, to Princeton, or to other colleges, 

 and for a time the first honor man in every class in the University 

 was a Faires Boy. If the school could be said to have a specialty it 

 was careful instruction in Latin and Greek. 



These were the influences under which Chapman was prepared for 

 the Department of Arts of the University of Pennsylvania. Those 

 who knew him in after years will readily believe that Dr. Faires was 

 sincere when he declared that he had never had a more brilliant 

 scholar on the roll of the school. The originality and mental acuteness 

 of the boy were early apparent. He was, however, far from being a 

 diligent or attentive student, his tendency to regard the world from 

 a humorous point of view leading him into the difficulties encountered 

 by all such youths. They are nearly always loved, although some- 

 times dreaded, by the teacher. 



The classes in the College, or the Department of Arts of the Univer- 

 sity of Pennsylvania, which he entered in 1860 from this preparatory 

 school, occupied the upper of the two buildings on 9th Street between 

 Chestnut and Market Streets, the site of the mansion built in 1800 as 

 the residence of the Presidents of the United States. The faculty 

 was small, as was also the attendance, which was quite local as 

 compared with the present cosmopolitan enrollment in West Phila- 

 delphia. The men who filled the Chairs, however, were of tne first 

 rank in their specialties and it was a great advantage to the student 

 to come into direct relation with the professors themselves, there 

 being at that time no assistants or tutors. Henry Vethake, John 

 F. Frazer, George Allen, Henry Coppee and Provost Goodwin, with 

 the remarkable mathematician, E. Otis Kendall, were the equals, 

 and in many respects the superiors, of the teachers in other institutions. 

 The students all lived in their own homes. The system of instruc- 

 tion practiced in the school was well adapted to produce educated, 

 efficient and honorable men, provided with the requirements of active 

 life as well as with the accomplishments of the scholar. Social 

 grades were sharply marked, much more so than at piesent. The 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



members of the college fraternities were thrown into the closest 

 intimacy, and life-long friendships were formed through them. Chap- 

 man belonged to the Delta Phi, first established in the University in 

 1849. He never cared greatly about athletics, which occupied no 

 such prominent place in University interests as they do now. Cricket 

 was the game of the period, but Chapman never went in for it. He 

 may have gone on the river, but he was not one of the College crew. 1 



Henry graduated from the Department of Arts in 1864. He almost 

 immediately crossed the campus and matriculated in the Medical 

 Department, by far the most distinguished medical school in America, 

 under the preceptorship of Dr. Addinell Hewson. Here also the 

 teaching force was small, consisting of but seven professors : Joseph 

 Leidy, Joseph Carson, R. A. F. Penrose, Henry H. Smith, Robert 

 E. Rogers, Alfred Stille and Francis Gurney Smith, but these were 

 the worthy successors of the men who had brought the school to its 

 distinguished position and they more than maintained its brilliant 

 record. 



As in school and college, Chapman sustained the easiest relations 

 to the medical curriculum, frequently missing lectures but always, 

 after a few hours' reading, acquitting himself at quiz as well as the 

 most studious of his classmates. He took his degree of Doctor of 

 Medicine in 1867, the subject of his thesis being Generation. 



He entered the Pennsylvania Hospital the same year, first as an 

 attache of the apothecary shop and later as a resident physician, 



1 I am much indebted to Mr. John Cadwalader for these recollections of the 

 young Chapman, of the Faires school, and of the College before the removal to 

 West Philadelphia. In his reminiscences of the school Mr. Cadwalader tells 

 one story which is now of more than local interest. "A big, well built boy of 

 about fifteen years of age, named Irvine Stephens Bulloch, was then in the second 

 class. It was unusual for the Doctor to flog a boy of this size, as he realized it 

 imposed too severe a humiliation on him. Bulloch was usually a good student, 

 but he sat behind a very offensive boy whom he felt it his duty to constantly 

 chastise. This he did by giving him, from time to time, a loud smack in the 

 face which could be heard throughout the school. The victim, quite as big 

 as Bulloch, would set up a howl without attempting to resent the blow. The 

 sympathies of the school were, as a matter of course, all witli the aggressor. 

 Dr. Faires had a warm regard for Bulloch, who was a boy after his own heart, 

 but he had told him repeatedly his assaults must stop. Catching him one day 

 in the act the Doctor became much enraged, as he sometimes would on due 

 provocation. Seizing his heaviest cane he ran across the room. Bulloch 

 escaped to another aisle, the boys guarding his retreat as effectively as possible 

 until he reached the door, when, raising his hand, he cried: 'Dr. Faires, you 

 cannot flog me and I do not want to fight with you. I know, of course, I will 

 have to leave the school; so, good bye, fellows, I am awfully sorry to go.' This 

 boy, who had come from Georgia, was the uncle of Theodore Roosevelt. He 

 entered the Confederate Navy, was a distinguished officer, and was on the 'Ala- 

 bama' in its battle with the 'Kearsage.' A portrait of him was published in 

 the Illustrated London News soon after the battle." 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



which position he retained until 1869, when he went to Europe for a 

 three years' course of study under Sir Richard Owen in London, 

 Alphonse Milne Edward in Paris, Emile DuBois Reymond in Berlin, 

 and Joseph Hyrtl in Vienna. 



His beloved friends Leidy and Conrad being his sponsors, he had 

 been elected a member of the Academy in 1868. For Dr. Leidy, espec- 

 ially, he entertained the most affectionate regard and he never lost 

 an opportunity of acknowledging with impulsive generosity his 

 indebtedness to the great naturalist for inspiration and encourage- 

 ment. His championship of his friend, who never answered criticisms 

 or decried injustice, was amusingly illustrated by a note to the American 

 Naturalist in which he calls attention to the fact that Wyville Thomson, 

 in his remarks on sponges, had neglected to state that Leidy was first 

 to correctly describe the natural position of Hyaloncma, Euplectella and 

 Pleuronema, concluding with the remark: "We trust that Prof. 

 Thomson will now gracefully throw up the sponge." 



Immediately on his return from Europe he applied himself to the 

 problems of evolution, in which he was deeply interested. The 

 result of his reading, for the most part in the library of the Academy, 

 was the publication of his first work, a volume of 193 pages entitled 

 The Evolution of Life. It was issued from the press September 17, 

 1872, although the title page is dated the following year. 



So assiduously had he devoted himself to the preparation of the 

 work that his health broke down and he was compelled to go abroad 

 immediately after placing the manuscript in the hands of his pub- 

 lishers, the preface being prepared in Paris. The proofs were corrected 

 and the index prepared by the Librarian of the Academy to whom 

 he had entrusted the pleasant duty of seeing the book through the 

 press. 



The introduction is an interesting resume of the history of the 

 doctrine of evolution. He acknowledges his special indebtedness 

 to Prof. Hyrtl, Dr. Friedlowsky, Dr. Klein of Vienna, Prof. Owen, 

 Mr. Flower of London, Prof. Gervais of Paris, and to his friends Drs. 

 Leidy and James Aitkin Meigs, for encouragement and advice during 

 the progress of the work. 



Although the book gives evidence of extensive reading, it is believed 

 that Dr. Chapman regretted later that he had not waited until 

 his judgment was more mature. The work, in common with nearly 

 everything published by the author subsequently, was written liter- 

 ally currente calamo and showed evidences of impatience of the 

 restraints of composition, punctuation, especially, being regarded 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



as an impertinent artificial device, which might for the time be 

 safely ignored. His attention having been once called by the Editor 

 of the Proceedings, to the absence of punctuation marks in his 

 manuscripts, he replied, "Well! I will write a lot of commas, colons 

 and semi-colons and you may scatter them about as you please." 2 

 Some revision of diction and careful proof-reading were always, in 

 fact, necessary in connection with Chapman's literary work, not from 

 mere carelessness, and still less, it is scarcely necessary to say, from 

 incapacity, but because of a controlling desire to be rid of what was in 

 hand as promptly as possible so as to be free to go on with some other 

 task which had, in the meantime, established itself as of dominant 

 interest. 



Dr. Chapman's first contribution to the Proceedings of the Academy 

 ,was a report of remarks made at the meeting of 1873 on a species of 

 Delphinus. At the meeting of November 25 of the same year he 

 acknowledges his indebtedness to the Directors of the Zoological 

 Garden for the opportunity of dissecting a specimen of the Musanga, 

 the results of which he communicates verbally. 



Then in the third annual report of the Zoological Society of Philadel- 

 phia, it is stated that he had made dissections valuable to the compara- 

 tive anatomist and pathologist and that as a result thereof papers on 

 certain muscles in Ateles geoffroyi and Mucacus rheus and on the blood- 

 vessels in the rete mirabile of Bradypus didactylus had been published 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy. Subsequently his work as 

 Prosector of the Society, to which position he had been elected in 1874, 

 supplied him with material for contributions to the Proceedings on 

 the omentum of the Dog-faced Monkey, on the anatomy of the Giraffe, 

 the Elephant, the Manatee, the Capybara, the Chimpanzee, the 

 Amphiuma, the Macacus, the Ourang Outang, the Kangaroo, the 

 Echidna, the Hyaena, the Cryptobranchus, the Gibbon, the Chiromys, 

 and the Armadillo. 



Some of these articles were original contributions to science while 

 others were corroborations or corrections of the results obtained by 

 earlier anatomists. They frequently give evidence of familiarity 

 with the classics as well as with modern bibliography. 



In a detailed report to the Zoological Society in 1876 he endorses 



2 Dr. Chapman probably never heard of Lord Timothy Dexter, who, at the 

 conclusion of his unpunctuated A Pickle for the Knowing Ones or Plain Truths 

 in a Homespun Dress, supplies half a page of assorted marks with the note: 

 ". . . . the Nowing ones complane of my book the fust edition had no stops 

 I put in A nuf here and they may peper and salt it as they plese." 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



the position of the managers of other Zoological Gardens that drugs 

 are of but small avail in treating the ailments of lower animals and 

 records it as his experience as Prosector that the principal causes of 

 deaths during the first six months of the existence of the Garden were 

 improper food, badly regulated temperature and ill constructed 

 cages. He attributes the greatly improved conditions to the effects 

 of common sense hygienic treatment, the result of careful attention 

 and watchfulness on the part of those having charge of the animals. 

 He then enumerates the causes of death of 74 of the 113 animals lost 

 during the year, intimating that the others were old and in poor 

 condition when received and that they had gradually wasted away, 

 this being more especially the case with the birds. It is evident that 

 he took a deep interest in the condition of the Garden and that he 

 was not sparing of labor to advance its prosperity. 



He became a Director of the Society April 28, 1881, served as 

 Secretary in 1884 and as Corresponding Secretary from Nov. 24, 1890 

 to Nov. 10, 1904. 



From other sources he obtained the material for his elaborate 

 studies of the Gorilla, the Hippopotamus, the Galeopithecus and the 

 Hyrax. 



As a contribution to the eighth volume of the quarto Journal of 

 the Academy, he published in 1881 his account of the placenta and 

 generative apparatus of an elephant belonging to Cooper and Bailey's 

 London Circus, then occupying winter quarters at 23d Street and 

 Ridge Avenue in this city. A young female had been born at 2.30 

 A.M., March 9, 1880. The period of gestation was fixed at from 

 650 to 655 days, another corroboration by modern research of the 

 statements of that accurate observer, Aristotle. This was the first 

 circumstantial account of the pregnancy and delivery of an elephant 

 and the article excited wide interest. It is, with the article on the 

 placentation of the Kangaroo, published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy for 1881, the author's most important contribution to 

 original research. 3 



3 "The observations of Prof. Chapman of America show that these bags 

 [the yolk sacs and allantois] are all present in the Kangaroo, but that they are 

 all small and arrested." W. Kitchen Parker On Mammalian Descent, p. 61. 



Referring again to Dr. Chapman's paper "On the Embryo of the Kangaroo," 

 and to one by Dr. Osborn on the same subject, Prof. Parker remarks: "The two 

 papers just mentioned might, literally, be folded up and packed inside a nut-shell; 

 and yet, if I am not greatly mistaken, they let in more light upon the incoming of 

 both the Metatheria and the Eutheria than anything that has gone before. 



" Of course, only the biological reader of such communications can value them 

 properly, as he only can thoroughly understand their meaning and their bearing; 

 and yet the patient and thoughtful general reader may come at the gist of the 

 matter." Parker, op. cit. p. 83. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



He accompanied Leidy, Willcox, and Porter to the West in 1872, 

 and had an opportunity of observing the work of naturalists in the 

 field. He served as Dr. Leidy's assistant in the University from 

 1873 to 1876, and lectured there on anatomy and physiology. 



The position of Coroner's Physician was held by him under Dr. 

 Kingston Goddard and Dr. William Kent Gilbert from 1874 to 1880. 



Dr. Chapman was married to Hannah Naglee Megargee, daughter 

 of Samuel Megargee, December 2, 1876. The union, characterized 

 by a community of social interests, was a most happy one. The 

 Treatise on Human Physiology is affectionately dedicated by the 

 author to his wife "as a small acknowledgment of the interest evinced 

 and encouragement extended in its completion." Their summers 

 were spent in Bar Harbor where, in 1886, the house was purchased 

 which they named Mira Monte, and in which Dr. Chapman died. 

 Here for nearly thirty years he pursued his studies of the flora and 

 fauna of Mt. Desert island, the latter in a little laboratory on the 

 water's edge. Here the fishermen, all his devoted friends, brought 

 whatever of interest they succeeded in securing from the waters. 



The material progress of his summer home and the welfare of its 

 citizens, among whom he was universally popular, were to him matters 

 of active concern. He endeavored in every way in his power to min- 

 imize the distinctions between the summer colony and the permanent 

 residents. He took an active interest in the local library which 

 he served as a Director. 



He succeeded George W. Tryon, Jr., as a Curator of the Academy, 

 August 8, 1876. He held the office only until the end of the following 

 year. He was elected a member of the Council in 1880, but finding, 

 after the lapse of four months, that his other engagements interfered 

 with the discharge of his duties, he resigned. Again elected a Curator 

 in 1891, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. Leidy, he acted 

 as Chairman of the Board until the close of 1904, when he declined a 

 renomination. During his term of office he cooperated earnestly 

 with his associates in the establishment of desirable administrative 

 reforms. 



Having served as Demonstrator of Physiology in association with 

 Dr. James Aitken Meigs in the Jefferson Medical College for the ses- 

 sions of 1877 to 1880, he lectured on experimental physiology in the 

 summer course of 1878 and was Curator of the Museum in 1879-80. 

 He was given a second degree of Doctor of Medicine by the College 

 in 1878, his thesis being on Persistence of Forces in Biology. 



Dr. Meigs died November 9, 1879, shortly after beginning his course 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



of lectures for that term. At the request of the Board of Trustees 

 it was continued and completed by Dr. Chapman. So acceptably was 

 the engagement fulfilled that he was appointed by the Board to the 

 vacant chair of Institutes of Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence in 

 the spring of the following year. He secured from Paris as promptly 

 as he could a collection of the most recent apparatus for physiological 

 investigation. It was with the assistance of portions of this collection — 

 Regnault and Reisert's instruments for the study of respiration and 

 Helmolz's Ophthalmometer — that his fine papers on respiration and 

 on the radius of the curve of the cornea were prepared, together with 

 those on the general physiology of nerves and muscles, in conjunction 

 with his assistant and successor in the chair, Dr. Albert P. Brubaker. 



His introductory lecture to his first year's course was published 

 by the Class. Considering the scope and purpose of physiology he 

 dwells on the advantages of a study of pathology and insists on the 

 importance of comparative anatomy, illustrating his position by 

 reference to the action of the pancreatic juice in the beaver and the 

 rabbit, the relation of the size of the brain to mental development 

 in the lower animals, and to the nature of the bile as studied in Doris, 

 one of the nudibranchiate mollusks. The limitations of the useful- 

 ness of vivisection in the prosecution of physiological research is 

 frankly acknowledged, but the practical results secured up to that 

 time were recounted and the opinion was expressed that, if vivisection 

 should be banished from the laboratory, the physiologist would be 

 deprived of one of his most fertile methods of research. 



Dr. Chapman addressed the graduating class of the College in the 

 Academy of Music, March 30, 1882, and again on April 2, 1890. On the 

 latter occasion he advises the graduates to get married as soon as they 

 can and dwells on the advantages to the young practitioner of the con- 

 jugal partnership. He considers the results of inductive and deductive 

 reasoning, claims that the latter is essentially the feminine mode 

 and assures his young hearers that matrimony will strengthen their 

 inductive masculine minds. 



He filled the chair in Jefferson College until the completion of last 

 year's course when he resigned, with the intention of devoting his 

 entire time to original research. His resignation was accepted with 

 regret and he was made Emeritus Professor. His skill in adapting 

 his physiological teaching to the practical needs of the physician was 

 fully recognized by his students and associates in the Faculty. During 

 the years of his connection with the College he never hesitated to 

 express with characteristic frankness and force his views on questions 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



relating to the conduct of the school. The feeling entertained for 

 him by his students was one of personal affection. 



A memoir of his predecessor, prepared for the College of Physi- 

 cians, was published in the Transactions and is a well-expressed 

 appreciation of the work of Dr. Meigs as a teacher and of the value 

 of his contributions to anthropological science. 



While acting as demonstrator to Dr. Meigs, he was elected in 1878 

 to the Professorship of Physiology in the Pennsylvania College of 

 Dental Surgery. He retained the position until 18S5, when, desirous 

 of giving undivided attention to his educational work in Jefferson 

 College, he resigned. Here, as elsewhere, the force and originality 

 of his teaching secured the attention and interest of his class, and 

 his resignation was regarded as inflicting a loss on the institution. 



Europe was again visited in 1882 and 1887. During a stay in Paris 

 in 1899, he was presented to the Academy of Sciences and he made 

 a communication before the Society of Biology on the placentation 

 of the elephant. An abstract of his remarks was published in the 

 Comptes Rendus of the Society, where also appeared, in 1903, some 

 notes on the placentation of mammals in general. 



His attention while in Paris was by no means confined to scientific 

 interests, the vast storehouses of literature and art so liberally adminis- 

 tered there for the benefit of the public receiving a full share of his 

 attention. He visits the Bibliotheque Nationale to look at one of the 

 two complete copies in existence of the Christ ianismi Restitutio of 

 Michael Servetus. It is easy to believe that he was more attracted 

 by the rarity of the volume than by its contents. He is also shown 

 Charlemagne's Bible and those of most of the kings of France; the 

 memoirs of Louis XI Y, written by himself in the intervals of his 

 intrigues; the Bible of Catherine de Medicis bound at a cost of 60,000 

 francs ; the great Mazarin Bible; the autographs of Montaigne, Rabelais, 

 Moliere (the only one in existence); the first books of travel printed; 

 lots of Caxtons, letters of Columbus, Vespucci, Cortez, Pizarro, and 

 hundreds of other treasures in which he revels. He spent another 

 pleasant day at the Observatory with Simon Newcomb, when, because 

 of the presence of the distinguished American astronomer, the resources 

 of the establishment were courteously displayed. 



The History of the Discovery of the Circulation of the Blood was 

 published in 1884. The essay was given as a lecture in Jefferson 

 College the year before. It makes a small volume of fifty-six pages, 

 but it is, from a literary point of view, the author's most satisfactory 

 work, showing erudition, thoroughness of research and clearness of 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



statement. It forms, without much change, the 25th Chapter of the 

 Treatise on Human Physiology, published in 1887, a second edition 

 appearing in 1899. 



A Manual of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, designed, 

 apparently, merely as an aid to the student in following the lectures, 

 was published in 1892, subsequent editions appearing in 1896 and 1903. 



He prepared an appreciative memoir of Dr. Joseph Leidy for the 

 Academy in 1891. It is an adequate record of the work of his friend, 

 to the value of whose encouragement and guidance he was always 

 delighted to testify. Dr. Leidy's claims to public gratitude were again 

 presented by him in an address delivered in the City Hall on the 

 occasion of the dedication of Murray's statue of the great naturalist, 

 October 30, 1907. 



His paper on The Interpretation of Certain Verses of the First Chapter 

 of Genesis in the Light of Paleontology was contributed to the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy in 1893. The article must be considered as a 

 mere tour de force. It is not regarded as a contribution to our know- 

 ledge of the subject by either Biblical or Hebrew scholars, and is mainly 

 interesting as illustrative of the range and diversity of Dr. Chapman's 

 interests. 



He was elected a member of the Board of Directors of the Library 

 Company of Philadelphia, April 3, 1902. He took an active interest 

 in the affairs of the Company, serving on the Book and Ridgway 

 Branch Committees. 



Again in Europe in 1902, he gave special attention to the collec- 

 tions in Florence under the guidance of Giglioli, the Director of the 

 Museum, and to those of the Zoological Station of Naples, where 

 he was cordially received by the late Prof. Dohrn, who assisted him 

 in procuring for the Academy a fine collection of the invertebrates of 

 the Bay of Naples. The specimens, prepared with the care charac- 

 teristic of the Station, filled no less than 152 glass jars, and constitute 

 a most valuable addition to the Museum, which had been enriched 

 from time to time by the anatomical material of Dr. Chapman's 

 studies, and by interesting collections from Bar Harbor. 



A few months were spent in Paris in 1903, when he again addressed 

 the Biological Society. He was back in Bar Harbor by the first of 

 July. In 1905 he visited Egypt where he applied himself with charac- 

 teristic energy to the study of hieroglyphics and Egyptian antiquities. 

 He subsequently went to Rome and became intensely interested in 

 the excavations of the Roman Forum. His devotion to this field of 

 research continued unabated and he looked forward with eagerness 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



to pursuing his studies in the Eternal City when the resignation of 

 his professorship would leave him in complete control of his time. 



He was much gratified by the reception in June, 1908, of the degree 

 of Doctor of Science from his Alma Mater in recognition of the value 

 of his contributions to original research. 



Elected a Fellow of the College of Physicians in 1 880 he served on 

 the Library Committee from January, 1891, to June, 1892. He was a 

 member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Physio- 

 logical Society, and the Franklin Institute; but he devoted much more 

 time to the Academy and the Zoological Society than to the other 

 institutions with which he was connected. 



His last visit to the Academy was made a week before his departure 

 for Bar Harbor. He was then in his usual exuberant spirits, with but 

 little appearance of impaired health. Shortly after his arrival at his 

 summer home he complained of severe pain, which was supposed to 

 be intercostal neuralgia, but which, in connection with some difficulty 

 in swallowing, was doubtless symptomatic of grave digestive disturb- 

 ance. He was, however, able to attend to his many social duties, 

 and to keep up his interest in the work of his laboratory until September 

 6th, when he was taken with a severe hemorrhage from the stomach, 

 probably the effect of a gastric ulcer. A copious repetition of the 

 flow of blood the following day resulted in his death. Mrs. Chapman 

 survives him, childless. 



The funeral exerciser were held at Bar Harbor in St. Saviour's 

 Church on the 10th of September. The body was brought to Phil- 

 adelphia and buried in Laurel Hill Cemetery in the presence of a few 

 relatives and intimate friends who had assembled at his residence, 

 No. 2047 Walnut Street, a few blocks from where he was born. 



The qualities which endeared Dr. Chapman to his schoolmates 

 persisted throughout his life. He remained to the end a boy, with a 

 cultivated mind, an unquenchable desire for the acquisition of know- 

 ledge, an intense enjoyment of life, and an unvarying self-possession, 

 the result of success, appreciation, and inheritance. His sense of 

 humor, his mental acuteness, his generosity, his sympathy with all 

 human endeavor, his possession of what his friend Weir Mitchell 

 finely calls "a boundless charity of attention," secured for him the 

 affectionate regard of many with whom he could not be supposed to 

 have much community of interest. 



In most intellectual centres, and characterizing almost every genera- 

 tion, certain men become famous as the authors of well told stories, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



sparkling witticisms and apt repartee. They are frequently credited 

 by tradition with much more of that sort of achievement than they 

 were really responsible for. In this connection President Lincoln, 

 Emory Storrs, William B. Travers, Sam Ward and Paul B. Goddard 

 will be recalled as worthy successors of Tom Hood, Charles Lamb, 

 Sydney Smith and other historic humorists. In this class Nathaniel 

 Chapman was given a place by his own generation and his fame 

 endures to the present day, not only as an excellent teacher, but also 

 as a man of great personal charm, an exuberant vitality, and an acute 

 sense of humor. These qualities, transmitted to the son, were inherited 

 in full measure by the grandson, coming, indeed, from both father and 

 mother. It would not be hard to quote Dr. Chapman as the author of 

 many a dr 11 story and many a witty saying, always to the point and 

 without malice. These would, without doubt, add greatly to the interest 

 of this essay, but they would manifestly be out of place on the present 

 occasion as being irrelevant. One of his Bar Harbor friends tells 

 of his having once dissected an oyster in his laboratory, several 

 distinguished men of science being interested spectators. With- 

 out looking up, or interrupting the manipulation of his scalpel 

 for an instant, he told a story which was greeted with roars of laughter. 

 This was an experience quite familiar to those associated with Dr. 

 Chapman in his most serious scientific work, the character of which 

 was not, however, damaged by his joyous interludes. It must be 

 fresh in the recollection of many Academicians how the old library hall 

 would ring with hilarity on the occasions of his frequent visits. 



Nothing that was human was foreign to him ; he was on good terms 

 with all types of mankind except the Bore and the Sham. He would, 

 not unlikely, eat an abstemious lunch with Madame Bubble, but he 

 would certainly not devote a minute to the young woman whose name 

 was Dull. He might exchange opinions, if time permitted, with 

 Mr. Worldliwise, but he would frankly tell Mr. Facingbothways how he 

 regarded him, without thinking it worth while to wait for an answer. 

 As has been said of another, "it was his good fortune to be a man of 

 the world without being frivolous, and a man of science, without 

 being pedantic." 



Although Dr. Chapman's mental equipment was entirely devoid 

 of any recognition of authority except that which appealed to his 

 reason within the bounds of what he himself recognized as its limita- 

 tions, he was unalterably attached to the traditions and routine which 

 had, actively or passively, moulded his character, and he was as 

 intolerant as a Covenanter when his prejudices were combatted. In 




26S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



his reply to Dr. Horatio C. Wood's paper on medical education, pub- 

 lished at the beginning of the movement which has been productive 

 of such good results in the elevation of the medical profession, he 

 quotes approvingly Huxley's statement concerning the men who had 

 gone up for examination in the University of London, that he had 

 been struck with "the singular unreality of their knowledge of phys- 

 iology." He deprecates Dr. Wood's laudation of the courses of 

 instruction in Europe as contrasted with our own: "To establish in 

 this country a University of the German kind, we would first require 

 to have their gymnasia, then their primary schools, then more taxation 

 to support them, a national priesthood to regulate the ideas of the 

 faculty, and finally a standing army to keep the dissatisfied quiet. 

 A medical education is a good thing, but the privilege of saying what 

 we please, doing what we like, and spending our money as suits us 

 best, is better. If any American physician will give his lifetime to 

 the study of a specialty, and will lecture on that, and that alone, I 

 have no doubt he can make, like the German professor, a reputation 

 and a living — if he chooses to live like one." 



Years after, in considering the proposed act of the Legislature regu- 

 lating the practice of medicine and surgery, he gives his reasons for 

 believing that such an attempt would be rather to lower than to 

 elevate the standard of medical education in the Commonwealth. 

 Such opinions were expressed with a vigor and point which, while 

 they might fail to convince, certainly relieved his printed arguments 

 from dulness. 



Possessed of a wonderfully retentive memory he was always able to 

 illustrate his point of view and enforce his arguments by apt references 

 and quotations characterized by incisiveness and force. While ardently 

 devoted to scientific investigation, he was attentive to his many social 

 obligations; but if either had to be held in abeyance, his work had 

 always the precedence, a fact amply demonstrated by the varied 

 and extensive results of his industry, as recorded in the accompanying 

 bibliography. The value of his contributions to science was 

 recognized on his retirement by the Carnegie Foundation for the 

 Advancement of Teaching. 



It is fitting that Dr. Chapman should be remembered as a devoted 

 student of science who contributed liberally to the resources of the 

 Academy and was always active in advancing its interests at home 

 and abroad. He will dwell in the regard of his fellow members as a 

 genial associate, an intellectual stimulus, and a loyal friend. 




1910.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 269 



Bibliography. 



Evolution of Life. Philadelphia, 1873, pp. i-vi, 7-193. 



Criticism on an observation of Professor Thomson on certain Sponges, etc. 



American Naturalist VII, 1873, pp. 485, 486. 

 On a species of Delphinus. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1873, pp. 279, 280. 

 Disposition of flexor perforans, flexor longus hallucis and flexor accessorius in 



Paradoxurus musanga Gray. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1873, p. 372. 

 On the muscles of the hind leg of Fiber zibethicus. Proc. A N. S. P., 1874, p. 13. 

 On Echinorhvnchus moniliformis. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1874, p. 76. 

 On the generative apparatus of the Tebennophorus carolinensis. Proc. A. N. 



S. P., 1874, pp. 79, 80. 

 Disposition of the latissimus dorsi, etc., in Ateles geoffrovi Kuhl, and Macacus 



rhesus Desm. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1874, p. 94, plate XIII. 

 Flexor brevis digitorum in Ateles geoffroyi (Rube). Proc. A. N. S. P., 1874, 



p. 94. 

 Rete mirabile in Bradypus didactylus. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1874, p. 95. 

 On what was found in the alimentary canal of Lucioperca. Medical Times, 



January 3, 1874. 

 The distribution of nerves in reference to neurotomy. Medical Times, January 



24, 1874. _ 

 On the disposition of the great omentum in Cvnocephalus porcarius, etc. Proc. 



A. N. S. P., 1875, p. 123. 

 On Trichocephalus affinis Dies. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1875, p. 440. 

 On the castor glands of the Beaver. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1875, p. 440. 

 On the anatomy of the Giraffe. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1875, p. 401. 

 Post-mortem examination of an Elephant. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1875, p. 402. 

 Observations on the structure of the Manatee. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1875, pp. 



452-462, plate XXVI. 

 On Medical Education. Pp. 1-13, Philadelphia, 1876. 

 Description of a new Taenia from Rhea americana. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1876, 



p. 14. 

 Description of a monstrosity. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1876, pp. 24-26. 

 A lecture upon the explanation of anomalies of the circulatory apparatus, etc. 



Medical Times, April 1, 1876. 

 The comparative anatomy and physiologv of the placenta. Obstetrical Journ. 



of G. B. and I., Am. Suppl., March, 1876. 

 On the Giraffe. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1877, pp. 37, 38. 

 On the caecum of Capybara. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1877, p. 146. 

 On reflex action in Turtles. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1877, p. 146. 

 On the placenta of a Monkey. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1877, p. 1 4. 

 On the structure of the Gorilla. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1878, pp. 385-394, plates 



III-VI. 

 On the structure of the Chimpanzee. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1879, pp. 52-63, plates 



IX-XII. 

 Notes on Amphiuma. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1879, pp. 144, 145. 

 Placenta of Macacus cynomolgus. Proc, A. N. S. P., 1879, pp. 146, 147. 

 On the placentation and generative apparatus of the Elephant. Journ. A. N. S. P., 



2d ser., VIII, 1874-1881, pp. 413-422, plates XLVIII-L. 

 On the structure of the Orang Outang. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1880, pp. 160-175, 



plates XI-XVII. 

 Lecture introductory to the Course of Jefferson Medical College for the Session 



1880-81, delivered October 3, 1880, pp. 1-20. Philadelphia, 1880. 

 Memoir of James Aitken Meigs, M.D. Trans. College of Physicians of Philadel- 

 phia, 3d Ser., V, pp. CXVII-CXXXIII, Philadelphia, 1880. 

 Observations on the Hippopotamus. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1881, pp. 126-148, 



plates XI-XVI. 

 On a foetal Kangaroo and its membranes. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1881, pp. 46S-471, 



plate XX. 

 Address to the Graduating Class of the Jefferson Medical College, 57th Annual 

 Commencement, March 30, 1882, pp. 1-10, Philadelphia, 1882. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



History of the discovery of the circulation of the blood. Pp. 1-56, Philadel- 

 phia, 1884. 

 Notes on the anatomy of Echidna hystrix. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1887, pp. 334-335, 



plates, XIX, XX. 

 Notes on the anatomy of the Indian Elephant. I : Some observations on the 



brain. Journal Comp. Med. and Surg., VIII, April, 1887. 

 Treatise on human physiology for the use of students and practitioners of 



medicine. Pp. 1-945. Philadelphia, 1887. 



Second Edition. Pp. 1-924, Philadelphia, 1899. 

 Address to the Graduating Class of the Jefferson Medical College, April 2, 1890. 



College and Clinical Record, XI, May, 1890. 

 Observations on the female generative apparatus of Hyaena crocuta. Proc. 



A. N. S. P., 1888, pp. 189-191. Plates IX-XI. 

 Researches upon the general physiology of nerves and muscles, No. I. (In collabo- 

 ration with Dr. Albert P. Brubaker). Proc. A. N. S. P., 1888, pp. 106-112. 

 Same, No. II. (In collaboration with Dr. Albert P. Brubaker.) Proc. A. N. 



S. P., 1888, pp. 155-161. 

 Researches on respiration, No. 1. (In collaboration with Dr. Albert P. Bru- 

 baker.) Proc. A. N. S. P.. 1891, pp. 13-44, Plates I-III. 

 Food and energv in its relation to medicine. Diatetic Gazette, Nov. 1889, pp. 1-3. 

 Memoir of Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D., Proc. A. N. S. P., 1891, pp. 342-388. 



Portrait. 

 Observations on the brain of the Gorilla. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1892, pp. 203-212, 



Plates XI-XIII. 

 Note on the geology of Mt. Desert Island. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1892, p. 350. 

 A Manual of medical jurisprudence and toxicologv. Pp. 1-237, Philadelphia, 



1892. 



Second edition. Pp. 1-254, Philadelphia, 1896. 



Third edition. Pp. 1-329, Philadelphia, 1903. 

 The interpretation of certain verses of the first chapter of Genesis in the light 



of paleontology. Proc. A. X. S. P., 1893, pp. 68-74. 

 Notes on Chceropsis liberiensis Morton. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1893, pp. 185-187, 



Plate IV. 

 Observations on the Japanese Salamander (Cryptobranchus maximus (Schlegel). 



Proc. A. N. S. P., 1893, pp. 227-233, Plates V, VI, VII. 

 The radius of the curve of the cornea. (In collaboration with Dr. Albert P. 



Brubaker.) Proc. A. X. S. P., 1893, pp. 349-361. 

 Strictures on proposed act to regulate the practice of medicine and surgery. 



(Privately printed.) 

 Homologies of the alisphenoid and petromastoid bones in Vertebrates. Proc. 



A. N. S. P., 1894, pp. 32-52. 

 Note on the Squid. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1898, p. 202. 

 La gestation et la placentation de 1' Elephant (Elephas asiaticus). Comptes 



Rend. hebd. de la Soc. de Biol. Paris, IP. Ser., I, 1899, pp. 525, 526. 

 Respiratory quotient and loss in volume of expired air. Proc. A. N. S. P., 



1900, p. 379. 

 Observations on the anatomv of Hylobates leuciscus and Chiromys madagar- 



cariensis. Proc. A. X. S. P., 1900, pp. 414-423. 

 Observations on the placenta and voung of Dasvpus sexcinctus. Proc. A. N. 



S. P., 1901, pp. 366-369, Plate' XVIII. 

 Observations on Galeopithicus volans. Proc A. N. S. P., 1902, pp. 241-254, 



Plates X-XII. 

 On a collection of Anthropoids. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1903. p. 719. 

 Sur la form de placenta de plusieurs mammiferes. Comptes Rendus hebd. 



de la Soc. de Biol. Paris, LV, 1903, pp. 801, 802. 

 Observations upon a collection of Anthropoid Apes presented by T. Biddle, Nov. 



3, 1903 (Privately printed). Pp. 1-9. 

 Observations on Tupaia, with reflections on the origin of Primates. Proc. 



A. N. S. P., 1904, pp. 148-156, Plates IX, X. 

 Observations on Hyrax. Proc. A. N. S. P., 1904, pp. 476-480. 

 Address on the life and work of Joseph Leidy. (Privately printed.) Pp. 1-8 



(1907) with portrait. 

 Life and work of Joseph Leidy. Science, N. S., XXVI, 1907. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



April 19. 

 J. Cheston Morris, M. D., in the Chair. 



Forty-seven persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under 

 the following titles : 



"Stauroneis terryi D. B. Ward/' by T. Chalkley Palmer (April 11, 

 1910). 



"A revision of the North American Species of the Genus Ischnoptera 

 (Orthoptera)," by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (April 12, 

 1910). 



"A new Diatom/' by T. Chalkley Palmer (April 19, 1910). 



Under the auspices of the Biological and Microscopical Section the 

 following communications were made: 



Jelly-pores in the Diatomacece. — Mr. Charles S. Boyer discussed 

 the observations of Otto Miiller, George Karsten and others upon the 

 occurrence and function of the jelly pore in the Diatomacese and de- 

 scribed it as found in certain species not heretofore recorded. As has 

 been stated, the production of a stipe or jelly cushion appears to be 

 its function. A more minute study of the habitat in various motile 

 and immotile species is requisite. The speaker dwelt upon the varying 

 conditions in earlier and later cell growth, of the tube and thallus 

 forming jelly, and of the relation between the raphe and the pore. 

 Suggestions were made as to the relation between the forms producing 

 the stipes and jelly cushions and those in which the protective devices 

 of many pelagic species were found to be siliceous. Drawings, original, 

 and from various authors, illustrated the remarks. 



Dr. Thomas S. Stewart, on the Hook-worm, Ankylostoma duo- 

 denale. (No abstract.) 



Unusual Forms of Myxomycetes. — Mr. Hugo Bilgram remarked 

 that in the early stages of their existence Myxomycetes are com- 

 posed of a slimy mass consisting of cells resembling amcebse, and 

 only in the last hours of their life do they assume the apparently 

 organized form of the well-known beautiful sporangia. 



The most simple species consist of a mass of spores enclosed in a 

 sporangium wall. Others develop within the sporangium a capillitium 

 often consisting of branching filaments, and in some genera, of isolated 

 fibres. In many genera the capillitium bears characteristic markings, 

 such as spines, warts or spiral ribs. In the process of maturation 

 18 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



many species develop within the yet soft sporangium a stipe on which 

 they creep up, so that the matured sporangium is stipitate, and when 

 the stipe has a continuation within the sporangium, this is known as 

 a columella. 



The different species have more or less constant characters. Many 

 are never found stipitate. Among the stipitate forms it often happens 

 that a few of the sporangia of a gathering are sessile, especially spor- 

 angia maturing on the outside of the group. 



Two rather extraordinary gatherings were shown under microscopes. 

 The one was Physarum pulcherrimum, which is usually stipitate, 

 sessile sporangia being rarely seen; but in the specimens shown all 

 sporangia were sessile. The other exhibit was a specimen of Perichcena 

 chrysospora. Not a single species of this genera is known to be stipi- 

 tate, but in the gathering exhibited a number of the sporangia had a 

 well-developed stipe, while others were normal and therefore sessile. 



Mr. Silas Shumo. on the microscopic characters of the stems of 

 Equisetum. (No abstract.) 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley, on micrometry. (No abstract.) 



Mr T. Chalkley Palmer, on Navicula sociatis, a new diatom. 

 (See papers.) 



Mr. William B. Davis, on fresh-water polyzoa. (No abstract.) 



Mr. H. Van Sickel, on a new crystallization of platinum. (No 

 abstract.) 



The communications were illustrated by preparations under the 

 microscopes. 



Mr. John B. Henderson was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



NOTES ON THE VARIATION OF SOME SPECIES OF THE GENUS NOTROPIS. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In this paper the results of the range of variation in the important 

 or fundamental characters of a majority of the species of this genus 

 are presented. Most all of the material examined in this connection 

 is exclusive of that already published in my Synopsis of the Cyprinidse 

 of Pennsylvania, and is contained in the collections of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Many of the specimens are the 

 types of Girard and Cope and as the published accounts and figures 

 are insufficient or incomplete, it is hoped that the notes and figures 

 given upon each species will be of use in future determinations. Little, 

 if any attention, in most cases, seems to have been paid to the extent 

 of variation in the species of this genus, so that often dogmatic and 

 compiled descriptions of some writers are very unsatisfactory, especi- 

 ally when based on the examination of a single example. The deter- 

 mination of the species is thus often very difficult, especially in such 

 a large genus as the present, and where age, sex and the individual 

 often vary greatly. No attempt is made in any way to alter the 

 limits of the genus from those prescribed by Jordan and Evermann. 



Notropis aztecus Woolman. 



Head 4; depth 3f ; D. hi, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 46? + 2; 8 scales 

 above 1. 1. ; 6 scales below 1. 1. ; 25 predorsal scales; snout 3 J in head; 

 eye 5; maxillary 3£; interorbital 2|; teeth 4-4; length 3| inches. 

 One from L. Xochimilco, Mex. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). PI. XV, fig. 1. 



Head 3| to 4|; depth 3f to 5f; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 

 6, i ; scales 28 to 35 + usually 2, frequently 3, rarely 1 ; 5 or 6 scales 

 above incomplete 1. 1. ; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 12, frequently 

 11, sometimes 13, occasionally 10 or 14 predorsal scales; snout 3£ to 

 4£ in head; eye 2\ to 3J; maxillary 3£ to 44; interorbital 2\ to 3; 

 teeth 4-4; length 1A to 2| inches. Very large series, of which 52 

 examined from Ridgewood, Budd's Lake, Trenton, Turnersville, 

 Pensauken, Mantua, Florence, Crosswicks Creek. N. J. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Notropis cayuga Meek. PI. XV, fig. 2. 



Tvo from Silver Lake and one from Brook River, la., the latter 

 long ago named as new by Cope in MS. 



Notropis cayuga atrocaudalis Evermann. 



Head 3* to 4|; depth 3* to 4; D. hi, 7, i; A. hi, 6, i; scales usually 

 35, frequently 34, often 36 + usually 2, seldom 3; 6 scales above 

 1 1 ; usually 5 scales below 1. 1., rarely 4 or 6; usually 15 predorsal 

 scales, often 16; snout 3* to 4 in head; eye H to 4; maxillary 3* to 

 3|; interorbital 2\ to 3; teeth 4-4; length 2 to 3 inches. Thirteen 

 from Palestine, Tex. 



Notropis fretensis (Cope). PI. XV, fig. 3. 



Hybopsis fretensis Cope, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1866, p. 

 382. Near Detroit, Mich. 

 Type of H. fretensis. It is not at all likely this species may be 

 identical with N. cayuga, as suggested by Jordan and Evermann. 



Notropis deliciosus (Girard). PI. XV, figs. 4-6. 



Monmna deliciosa Girard, Proc. Ac-ad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 199. Leon 

 ^S^^S^prPr-Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 283. 



Hyfo^^nsis Cope, Prelim. Rep. U. S. Geol. Sur., 1870 (1871), 

 p. 437. St. Joseph, Mo. 

 Head 3f to 4£; depth 31 to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely hi, 5, i; A. hi, 6, i: 

 scales usually 33 or 35, frequently 34. seldom 30 or 32, rarely 36 or 

 37 + usually 2, rarely 3; usually 5 scales above 1. 1., seldom 6; 4 

 scales below 1. 1.; usually 16 predorsal scales, frequently 15, often 14. 

 occasionally 17, seldom 18, rarely 13; snout 3 to 3* in head; eye 2f 

 to 3f; maxillary 2* to 3f; interorbital 2* to 3f; teeth 4-4; length 

 li to 2| inches. Cotype of M. deliciosa, 6 of H. strammeus (type 

 No 4, 131, A. N. S. P.) and 4 of H. missurimsis (type No. 4,374, 

 A N.' S. P.). Also 123 examples, from Grosse Isle and Haughton 

 Lake, Mich.; Calhoun and Chariton, Mo.; Wichita River, Tex. 



Notropis volucellus (Cope). PI. XV, fig. 7. 



Head 3} to 3|; depth 4* to 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 

 8 i- scales usually 32, often 33 or 34, rarely 30 or 31 + usually 2. 

 rarely 3; usually 5 scales above 1. 1., rarely 6; usually 4 scales below 

 1 1 rarely 5; usually 13 or 14 predorsal scales, frequently 12 or 15: 

 snout 3i to 4i in head; eye 3£ to 3f; maxillary 3f to 4; interorbital 

 91 to 3- teeth 4-4; length 2* to 2A inches. Ten from Hicksville, O. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



Notropis procne (Cope). PI. XV, fig. 8. 



Hybognathus procne Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 283. Cones- 

 toga Creek, Pa. 



Cotypes of H. procne 11, and an example from Stony Run in Cecil 

 County, Md. 



Notropis procne longiceps (Cope). PI. XVI, fig. 9. 



Hybopsis longiceps Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) VI, 1868 (Decem- 

 ber), p. 231. Headwaters of Roanoke and James Rivers, Va. 



Head 3f to 4f ; depth 4^ to 5f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii. 6, r, 

 occasionally iii, 7, i; scales usually 32, frequently 33, occasionally 31, 

 seldom 34, rarely 29 or 30 4- usually 2, rarely 1 or 3; 5 scales above 1. 1., 

 rarely 4; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 12 or 13 predorsal scales, often 

 14, occasionally 15 ; snout 3£ to 3f in head ; eye 2f to 3^ ; maxillary 2| to 

 3f; interorbital 2\ to 3£ ; teeth 4-4; length 1M to 2ie inches. Cotypes 

 of H. longiceps IS (type No. 4,108, A. N. S. P.). Also 52 examples, 

 from C->al Creek and S. Fork of Cumberland River, Tenn.; Yadkin 

 River, N. C. ; James River ?, Va. This form has generally been iden- 

 tified with the preceding, but seems to differ somewhat in its more 

 slender body. 



Notropis spectrnnculus (Cope). 



Hybopsis spectrnnculus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (2), VI, 1868 

 (December), p. 231, PI. 22, figs. 3-3o. Bear Creek, Holston River basin, 

 Va. 



Head 3| to 4$; depth 4f to (6?) 5|; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 7, 



1, seldom iii, 8, i; scales usually 36, frequently 35, seldom 34 + usually 



2, rarely 1; 5 scales above 1. 1. ; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 13 pre- 

 dorsal scale?, often 15, sometimes 16, rarely 14 or 17?; snout 3£ to 

 3f in head; eye 2£ to 3; maxillary 2f to 3^; interorbital 2\ to 3^-; 

 teeth 4-4; length 2 to 2\ inches. Cotypes of H. spectrnnculus 11 

 (type No. 4,363, A. N. S. P.). Also 10 examples, from French 

 Broad River and Henderson County, N. C. ; Kanawha basin (?), Va. 

 Cope's figure shows only 6 developed branched rays. 



Notropis blennius (Girard). PI. XVI, fig. 10. 



Alburnops blennius Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 194. 

 Arkansas River near Ft. Smith. 



Cotype of A. blennius, agreeing in most particluars with Girard's 

 accounts, and Is unquestionably the fish he calls A. blennius, whatever 

 others may be confused, as he mentions 18 examples. Jordan gives 1 

 the teeth of one of Girard's examples as 1, 4-4, 0, which, if not broken, 

 would suggest something different. 



1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1SS5, p. 123. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April . 



Head 3f to 3f ; depth 4 to 4+; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i; scales 32 to 

 35 + 2; 5 or 6 scales above 1. 1. ; 3 or 4 scales below 1. 1. ; 13 or 14 

 predorsal scales; snout 3f to 3| in head; eye 3$ to 3|; maxillary 

 2f to 3; interorbital 3 to 3^; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2± to 2A inches. 

 Two examples from Blue River, Indiana. 



Notropis illeoebrosus (Girard). PI. XVI, fig. 11. 



Alburnops illecebrosus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S56, p. 194. 

 Arkansas River, near Fort Smith. 



Cotype of A. illecebrosus. The fish called N. illecebrosus by Jordan 

 and Evermann 2 , to which is added "description here drawn up from 

 the types" is confusing, as they give: A. S; scales 7-35: 11 pre- 

 dorsal scales; teeth 1.4-4,1; all of which is not in agreement with 

 my example, as may be seen by Meek's notes. This latter may be 

 considered unquestionably the type of the present species, as Meek 

 is the first to restrict it , therefore, while specimens of A . sh umardi may be 

 identical as suggested by Jordan and Gilbert, 3 it is not possible to so 

 determine, as Jordan had already stated that the types of A. shumardi 

 were lost. However, if the two are ever demonstrated to be identical, 

 the name shumardi has precedence. 



Notropis gilberti Jordan and Meek. PI. XVI, fig. 12. 



Proe. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1S85, p. 4. Village Creek, la. 



Head 3i; to 3f ; depth 3f to 4f; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. usually 

 iii, 7, i, seldom iii, 6, i, rarely iii. 8, i; scales usually 30 or 33, seldom 

 31, 32, 34 or 35 + usually 2, rarely 1; usually 6 scales above 1. 1.. 

 occasionally 5, rarely 7; 5 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 15 or 17 pre- 

 dorsal scales, sometimes 16, rarely 13, 14 or 18; snout 3^o to 34; in 

 head; eye 3^ to 3f; maxillary 2f to 3yo ; interorbital 2f to 3^; 

 teeth 1, 4-4, 1 ; length 2.V. to 2nj inches. Seven cotypes of A r . gilberti. 

 besides 5 examples from Adel and Chariton, la. 



Notropis nux Evermann. 



Head 3£ to 4; depth 3^ to 4^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 6, i ; scales usually 

 33, occasionally 32 or 34 4- 2; 6 scales above 1. 1., rarely 5; 4 scales 

 below 1. 1., rarely 5; 13 or 14 predorsal scales; snout 3 to 3| in head; 

 eye 3^ to 3|; maxillary 2f- to 3f ; interorbital 2h to 3£; teeth 1 , 4-4,1, 

 rarely 1, 3-4, 1; length 2Vtt to 2M inches. Thirty examples from 

 Beaumont and Del Rio, Tex. The latter wrongly called N. blennius 

 by me. 4 



2 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus.. No. 47, I, 1S96, p. 268. 



3 L. c, No. 16, 1882, p. 193. 



4 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 244. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Notropis boops Gilbert. PI. XVI, fig. 13. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 4 to 4§; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales usually 

 32, sometimes .34, rarely 33, 35 or 36 + 2, rarely 3; usually 5 scales 

 above 1. 1., rarely 6; usually 3 scales below 1. 1., occasionally 4; 13 

 to 15 predorsal scales, rarely 12; snout 3£ to 4 in head; eye 2f to 3^; 

 maxillary 2f to 3£; interorbital 2\ to 3£; teeth usually 0, 4-4, 0, 

 occasionally 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 0, 4-4,1 ; length If to 2| inches. Twenty- 

 eight examples from Blue River, Ind., and Limestone Gap, Indian 

 Ter. The former in some cases show inner edges of grooves on pharyn- 

 geal teeth crenate, but differ from Gilbert's account in that 23 show 

 uniserial teeth and all have 8 (iii, 7, i) branched anal rays. There 

 are mostly 3 scales below 1. 1. Limestone Gap examples show smooth 

 pharyngeal teeth, dorsal origin distinctly behind ventral origin or 

 midway between snout tip and caudal base, 1. 1. very slightly decurved, 

 and 14 or 15 predorsal scales. I do not now think these examples 

 can be identical with Alburnnops shwnardi Girard, 5 though pre- 

 viously listed them so, as it was virtually supposed to have teeth 

 2,4-4,2 or 1,4-4,2, besides minor characters. The figure 6 is faulty, 

 showing maxillary to eye center, mandible included, breast naked, 

 7 scales above 1. 1. (his description says 5), 5 scales below 1. 1. (his 

 description says 3). 

 Notropis hudsonius (Clinton). 



Head 3f to 4^; depth 3f to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely hi, 8, i; A. iii, 7, i, 

 rarely iii, 6, i or iii, 8, i; scales usually 37, often 36, sometimes 35, 

 seldom 34 or 38, rarely 39 or 40 + usually 2, seldom 3; usually 6 

 scales above 1. 1., seldom 5; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., frequently 

 5; usually 16 predorsal scales, frequently 14 or 15, seldom 17, rarely 

 13 or 18; snout 3£ to 3| in head; eye 2^ to 3f ; maxillary 2f to 4; 

 interorbital 2f to 3^; teeth usually 2, 4-4, 1, sometimes 0. 4-4, 1, 

 occasionally 1, 4-4, 2, seldom 1,4-4, 1, rarely 2, 4-4, or 1, 4-4, or 

 2, 5-4, 1; length H to 3h inches. Seventy examples, from Berkshire 

 Hills, Mass.; Holston River, Va.; Port Clinton, O.; Lake Michigan, 

 Detroit, Grosse Isle, Mich.; Blue River, Ind.; Clear Lake, la. ; "Togus 

 Lake, Mt, Denver"? 



Notropis hudsonius selene (Jordan). PI. XVI, fig. 14. 



Head 3£to 41; depth 3| to 4£; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales usually 

 about 37, often 38, seldom 36 + 2; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 



5 L. c, 1856, p. 190. Arkansas River, near Fort Smith. 



6 Rep. Expl. Sur. Pac. R.R., Zool. X, Fishes, 1858, p. 261, PI. 58, figs. 1-4 

 (types). 




27S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1. 1. ; usually 15 predorsal scales, occasionally 14, 16 or 17; snout 

 3f to 3f in head; eye 3& to 3f; maxillary 3 to 3f ; interorbital 2f to 

 3; teeth 2. 4-4, 2; length 3A to 4f inches. Ten examples from 

 Sparrow Lake in Simcoe County, Ontario. 



Originally this form was thought allied with N. cornutus, but its 

 dark caudal spot, slightly imbricated lateral scales and fewer anal 

 rays point to its present location. The original account 7 differs in 

 giving the depth 4£, 4 scales above 1. 1. and 3 below. Dr. B. W. Ever- 

 mann kindly examined examples from Garden Isle in Lake of the Woods 

 and Rapid River. Minn. They show the head about 4^ to 4£, 

 depth about 3 T \ to 4 T \, 5 scales above 1. 1., 4 scales below 1. 1., snout 

 about 3 to 3£, eye about 3 to 3i, teeth (in 2 examples) 2, 4-4, 1, and 

 length of largest about 3| inches. He writes "the only tangible 

 difference, so far as these measurements show [from the typical hud- 

 sonius], is the length of the head, the selene type having a considerably 

 shorter head than the others. There is no difference in the fins or 

 scales." I have since examined several of these Lake of the Woods 

 examples, now in the Academy, and think they are younger examples 

 of selene, and that the size of the head is largely due to age. 



Notropis hucUonius amarus (Girard). PI. XVI, fig. 15. 



Hybopsis phaenna Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 279. Trenton 

 N.J. 



Head 3f to 4f ; depth 3| to 4f; D. hi, 7, i; A. hi, 7, i, rarely iii, 

 8, i; scales usually 36. sometimes 38, seldom 34, rarely 37 or 39 + 2; 

 Male-; usually 6 above 1. 1.. occasionally 7; usually 5 scales below 

 1. 1.. often 4; usually 15 predorsal scales, frequently 16, occasionally 

 14 or 18. seldom 17; snout 3J? to 3f in head; eye 2^ to 3f ; maxillary 

 2 J to 3f ; interorbital 2\ to 3; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, often 2, 4-4, 2, 

 seldom 1, 4-4, 2, rarely 1, 4-5, 2 or 0, 4-4, 1 ; length lit to 5A inches. 

 Cotypes of H. phaenna 3 (type No. 4, 389, A. N. S. P.). Also 58 exam- 

 ples, from Trenton, Haddonfield, Ridgewood, Newbold's I., Borden- 

 town, Duck I., X. J.; Baltimore, Charles County, Washington, Md. 



Notropis hudsonius saludanus (Jordan and Brayton). 



Head 3| to 4; depth 4^ to 5; D. iii. 7. i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely hi, 

 6. i; scales usually 36, sometimes 33, 34, 35 or 37 + 2; usually 6 

 scales above 1. 1., often 5; 4 scales below 1. 1.; usually 14 predorsal 

 scales, occasionally 12; snout 3 to 3£ in head; e}^e 2f to 3£; max- 

 illary 2| to 3£; interorbital 2h to 3i; teeth 1, 4-4. 1; length 2h to 3f 



7 Luxilus selene Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 10, 1877, p. 60. Lake 

 Superior, Bayfield, Wisconsin. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



inches. Six example; from the Catawba River, N. C. Cope records 

 these as Hybopsis amarus. Comparing his key, the head is given as 

 4, that of -V. hudsonius amarus as 4^, a character of no importance. 

 He gives teeth for saludanus 1, 4-4, 1, and for amarus 2, 4-4, 2, 

 stating that only the upper outer tooth is hooked and furnished with 

 a grinding-surface and the others are obtuse. I find these characters 

 to vary in most all degrees in both forms, except the number of teeth 

 in the inner row, which seems to be constantly 1 in saludanus, though 

 other material may show variation. Some of these latter show all 

 the larger teeth hooked. I find it differs from amarus in the rather 

 shorter thicker body, rather fewer predorsal scales, inner pharyngeal 

 tooth either absent or only 1, and usually only upper tooth hooked 

 and with grinding-surface as the others often obtuse, though this 

 apparently a condition of age as in the smaller examples all have 

 been found hooked. 



Notropis formosus (Girard). 



Montana formosa Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18.56, p. 201. Rio 

 Membres, Mex. 



Head of; depth 3£; D. hi, 7, i; A. hi, 7, i; scales 44 + 2; 8 scales 

 above 1. 1. ; 5 scales below 1. 1. ; 21 predorsal scales; snout 3% in head; 

 eye 3+; maxillary 2 T 9 o-; interorbital 2*; teeth hooked, grinding- 

 surfaces moderate, 4-4; length 2ts inches. Cotype of M. formosa. 



Notropis frigidus (Girard). 



Montana frigida Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 200. Trib. 

 Rio San Antonio and Rio Neuces. 



Head 3| to 34; depth 2| to 3f; D. hi, 7, i; A. iii, 8, i; scales 33 

 to 36 + 2 or 3; 7 scales above 1. 1.; 4 or 5 scales below 1. 1. ; 16 pre- 

 dorsal scales; snout 3| to 3* in head; eye 3f to 4; maxillary 24 to 3f ; 

 interorbital 2\ to 2\; teeth ?-4, grinding-surfaces rather narrow; 

 length 21r to 2f inches. Two cotypes? of M. frigida. Rio Salado 

 (Clark?), Tex.? S. I. "2978." Very likely these are from the lot 

 of 100 obtained in the Rio Salado, though no number is given by Girard. 



NotropiB lutrensis (Baird and Girard). PI. XVI, fig. 16; PI. XVII, figs. 17-21. 



Cyprinella -sauvis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 197. Near 



San Antonio, Tex. 

 Montana Icetabilis Girard, I. c, p. 200. Hurrah ('reck, trib. Rio Grande. 

 -1/. pulchella Girard, /. c. Sugar Loaf Creek, Tex. 

 M. rutila Girard, /. c, p. 210. Cadereita, Mex. 

 .1/. couch i Girard, /. c. Near China, New Leon, Mex. 

 M. gracilis Girard, /. c. Near Monterey, Mex. 

 Cyprinella billingsiana Cope, Rep. U. S. Geol. Sur., 1870 (1871), p. 439. 



St. Joseph, Mo. 

 Montana jugalis Cope, /. c. St. Joseph, Mo. 

 Cliola montiregis Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., NNII, 1885, p. 168. 



Monterey, Mex. _, 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Head 3| to 4; depth 2| to 4; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii. 8. i; A. iii. S. i, 

 seldom iii, 7, i, rarely iii. 9, i; scalas usually 33, frequently 30 or 34, 

 often 31 or 32, seldom 35, rarely 29 or 36 + usually 2. seldom •'!. 

 rarely 1; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., frequently 7. rarely S: usually 

 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 5; usually 14 predorsal scales, frequently 

 15, occasionally 13, often 16, seldom 17; snout 2i to 4 in head: eye 

 2J to 5; maxillary 2| to 3\; interorbital 2£ to 3; teeth usually 0. 4-4, 

 0, frequently 1, 4-4, 1, occasionally 1, 4-4, or 0, 4-4. 1: length 

 1A to 2ft inches. Cotypes, of C. sauvis 2. .1/. latabilis 1. M. pul- 

 chella 1. M. rvtila 1 (nearly dessicated), M. conchi 1 (labelled "Arkan- 

 sas River near Fort Smith. Dr. George E. Shumard. Smiths. Inst. 

 2982" evidently erroneously), .1/. gracilis 1. C. billingsiana 40 (type 

 No. 2.952. A. \. S. P.), M. jugalis 7 (type No. 3.144. A. X. S. P.), 

 and type of C. montiregis (type No. 19.344, A. X. S. P.). Also 121 

 examples, from Chariton, la.; Clinton, Osage River. Brownsville, 

 Sedalia, Marshfield, Greenfield, Mo.; Dallas, Palestine?. Devil's River. 

 Del Rio, (hah am, Wichita River. Tex. ; Fort Riley, Kan. 



Notropis proserpina (Girarrt). PI. XVII, fig. 22. 



Montana proserpina Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 200. 



Devil's River, Tex. 

 M. anrala Girard. /. c. Piedra Painte, New Mex. 



Head 3f to 4; depth 4 to 4f; 1). iii, 7. i; A. iii, 7. i: scales usually 

 34 or 35. sometimes 33 or 36 + usually 2. rarely 4; usually 6 scales 

 above 1. 1., occasionally 7: 4 scales below 1. 1.; usually 16 predorsal 

 scales, occasionally 15. 17 or 19; snout :; to :P, in head; eye oh to 4; 

 maxillary 3£ to 3±; interorbital 3 to 3±; teeth 4-4; length 2 2f 



inches. Cotypes of .1/. proserpina 1. and M. aurita 2. Also 52 exam- 

 ples from Del Rio, Tex. 



Notropis bubalinus (Bair.l and Girard). 



Cyprinetta umbrosa Girard. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S5G, p. 197. 



Coal Creek, Canadian River, Ark. 

 C. beekwithi Girard, /. c. Arkansas River near Fort Makee. 



Head 3f; depth 3; D. iii, 7. i; A. iii, 9, i; scales 33 + 2; 7 scale. 



above 1. 1. ; 5 scales below 1. 1. ; 16 predorsal scales ; snout 3f in head; 



eye 4; maxillary 3; interorbital 2f; teeth 1,4-?, ?, hooked, grinding- 



surfaces, edges apparently crenulated. Cotype of C. umbrosa. Cotype 



of C. beckirithi, nearly dissolved. 



Notropis ludibundus (Giranl). PI. XVII, fig. 23. 



CyprineUa ludibunda Girard, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1S56, p. 199. 

 No locality. 



Cotype of C. ludibunda. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Notropis texanus (Girard). 



Cj/prinella texana Girard, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 198. Rio 

 Salado and Turkey Creek, Tex. 



Head 3f ; depth 4$; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i; scales 36 + 2; 5 scales 

 above 1.1.; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; about 15 predorsal scales; snout 

 3* in head; eye 3; maxillary 2f; interorbital 3; teeth 4-4, grinding- 

 surfaces narrow; length If inches (caudal damaged). Cotype of 

 C. texana. 



Notropis venustus (Girard). 



Cyprinella venusta Girard. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 198. Rio 

 Sabinal, Tex. 



Head 3£- to 4; depth 3 to 4£; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; A. iii, 7, i. 

 rarely iii, 6, i; scales usually 32, frequently 33, seldom 30, rarely 

 34 or 35 + usually 2, seldom 3; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., often 7; 

 usually 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 5; usually 15 predorsal scale-, 

 often 14 or 17; snout 3^ to 3| in head; eye 3£ to 4; maxillary 3 to 

 3f ; interorbital 2\ to 3; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 0, 4-4, 1 or 

 1, 4?-4, 0; length If to ?>\ inches. Cotypes of C. venusta 2. Also 

 7 examples from Johnson's Fork of Llano River and the Rio Colorado 

 at Austin, Tex. 



Notropis stigmaturus (Jordan). PI. XVII, fig. 24. 



Photogenis stigmaturus Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. X. Y., XI, 1876, p. 337. 

 Trib. Etowah, Coosa and Oostanaula Rivers, Ga. 



Head 4 to 4£; depth 4 to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i: 

 scales usually 40, sometimes 42, rarely 46 + usually 3, frequently 2: 

 7 scales above 1. 1. ; 5 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 19 predorsal scales, 

 rarely 18, 20 or 22; snout 3^ to 3* in head; eye 3| to 4; maxillary 

 3 to 3£; interorbital 2f to 2|; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 0, 4-4. ; 

 length 2xt? to 3f? inches. Cotypes of P. stigmaturus 8, from the 

 Etowah River. 



Notropis callistius (Jordan). PI. XVIII, fig. 2.5. 



Photogenis callistius Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. X. Y., XI, 1S76, p. 337. 

 Etowah and Oostanaula Rivers, Ga. 



Head 4; depth Ah] D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8; scales 38 + 2; G scales 

 above 1.1.; 4 scales below 1.1.; 17 predorsal scales; snout 3£ in 

 head; eye 3£; maxillary 2f; interorbital 2f; teeth?, 4?-4?, 1?, grind- 

 ing-surfaces entire; length 2| to 3| inches. Cotypes of P. callistius 3, 

 from the Etowah, the largest figured. Said to differ from the pre- 

 ceding in red fin-pigment and more obscure dark caudal spot. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Notropis caeruleus (Jordan). PI. XVIII, fig. 26. 



Photogenis cceruleus Jordan. Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., XI, 1876, p. 33S. 

 Oostanaula River above Rome, Ga. 



Head 4; depth 4 to 4j; I), iii. 7. i; A. iii. 7, i or iii, 8, i; scales 

 34 or 35 + 2 or 3; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; 14 pre- 

 dorsaJ scale?; snout ?>h in head; eye 3^ to 3a; maxillary 3 to 3^; 

 interorbital 2f to 2a; teeth 1. 4-4, 1 or 0, 4-4, 1; length 2A to 3 

 inches. Cotypes of P. cceruleus 3. medium sized example figured. 



Notropis niveus (Cope). PI. XVIII, fig. 27. 



Hybopsis niveus Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1869-70, p. 460. 

 Upper Catawba River. V C. 



Head 31 to 4; depth 3f to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii. 7. i, some- 

 time- iii, 8, i. rarely iii, 6. i: scales usually 34, often 32, 33 or 35 + 

 usually 2, seldom 3: usually 6 scales above 1. 1.. rarely 5; usually 

 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 3; usually 15 predorsal scales, often 16. 

 sometimes 14 or 17. rarely 18 or 19; snout 3 to 3§ in head; eye 2} 

 to 4; maxillary 2^ to 3±; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1. 

 rarely 1, 4-4. 0; length 1U to 2f« inches. Cotypes of H. niveus 19 

 (type No. 2,930, A. X. S. P.). Also 48 examples from Catawba, 

 Neuse and Yadkin Rivers, X. C. 



Notropis whipplii (Girard). PI. XVIII, fig. 28. 



Photogenis spilopterus Cope, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1865, 

 p. 37S. St. Josephs River. Mich. 



Head 3^ to 4£; depth 3^ to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 7, i. 

 sometimes iii, 8, i, rarely iii. 5. i or iii. 6. i; scales usually 33. frequently 

 34 or 35, often 36. sometimes 31 or 32, occasionally 30 or 38, seldom 

 29, rarely 26, 28 or 37 + usually 2. frequently 3; usually 6 scales 

 above 1. 1., frequently 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 5; usually 

 16 predorsal scale-, frequently 14 or 15, often 17, sometimes 18, 

 occasionally 13. rarely 20; snout 3 to 3| in head; eye 2f to 4f; max- 

 illary 2f to 3f; interorbital 2| to 3; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 

 0, 4-4, 1 or 1, 4-4. 0; length 1£ to 3| inches. Cotype of P. spilop- 

 terus. Also 186 examples, from Ottumwa and Anamosa, la.; 

 Carthage, Mo.; Wabash River. Ind. ; Creek in Kanawha basin, 

 Walker's Creek and Sinking Creek. Ya. ; Grosse Isle. Mich. 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Head 3£ to 4; depth 3i/ to 4f; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually iii, 8, I, 

 rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 34, frequently 35, often 32 or 33, some- 

 times 36. rarely 30 or 31 + usually 2, seldom 3; usually 6 scales 

 above 1. 1., rarely 5 or 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 3 or 5; 

 usually 15 predorsal scales, often 14 or 16, seldom 13, rarely 17; 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2S3 



snout 3^ to 3f in head; eye 2| to 4£; maxillary 24, to 3^; inter- 

 orbital 2\ to 3; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 1, 4-4, 0; length 

 lfV to 3 inches. Specimens 104, from Trenton, Duck. I., New- 

 bold's I., Kinkora Creek, Trenton Junction, Burlington, Pensauken, 

 Sewell, Mantua, N. J. ; Stony Run in Cecil County, Gyn Oak in Balti- 

 more County, Md. ; James River and head of Roanoke River, Va. 



Notropis galacturus (Cope). 



Hypsilepis galacturus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 160. 

 Holston River, Va. 



Head 3 to 44; ; depth 3| to 5; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually iii, 8, i, seldom 



iii, 7, i or iii, 9, i; scales usually 30, frequently 29, often 31 or 32, 



sometimes 27 or 33, seldom 26, 34 or 36, rarely 24, 25, 28 or 38 + 



usually 3, rarely 4, seldom 2; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., sometimes 



7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 5; usually 15 or 16 predorsal 



scales, frequently 17, often 14, seldom 13, rarely 17 or 18; snout 3 



to 3f in head; eye 3£ to 5; maxillary 2| to 3^; interorbital 2f to 3; 



teeth 1, 4-4, 1; length 2\ to 5 inches. Cotypes of H. galacturus 



Cope 64 also 66 examples, from Catawba River and French Broad 



River, N. C; S. Fork Cumberland River and Coal Creek, Tenn.r 



Eureka Springs, Ark. 



Notropis pyrrhomelas (Cope). PI. XVIII, fig. 29. 



Photogenis pyrrhomelas Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soe. Phila., XI, 1870, 

 p. 463. Upper Catawba River, N. C. 



Head 3* to 3|; depth 3| to 4£; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, 

 rarely iii, 8, i or iii, 10, i; scales usually 30 or 33, seldom 32 or 34. 

 rarely 28, 31 or 35 + usually 2, frequently 3; usually 6 scales above 

 1. 1., rarely 7; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 14 predorsal scales, often 

 13, seldom 15, rarely 12; snout 3^ to 3f in head; eye 3 to 3+; max- 

 illary 24 to 2|; interorbital 2| to 3£; teeth usually 1, 4-4, 1, rarely 

 1, 5-4, 1; length 2M to 3ts inches. Cotypes of P. pyrrhomelas 95 

 (type No. 2,631, A. N. S. P.). Cope says the teeth are without 

 masticatory surface, which is not in agreement with my examination 

 of his material, as they have well-developed grinding-surfaces. He 

 further disagrees in stating ventrals reach the anal. 

 Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). PI. XVIII, fig. 30. 



Plargyrus bowmani Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1856, p. 196. Sweet- 

 water, trib. of Platte. 



Alburnops plumbeolus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 282. 

 Flint, Mich. 



Head 3£ to 44; depth 2| to 5; D. iii, 7, i, very rarely iii, 8, i; A. 

 usually iii, 8, i, seldom iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 7, i; scales usually 34, fre- 

 quently 32 or 35, often 33, sometimes 30, 31, 36, 37 or 38, occasionally 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



39, seldom 29 or 40, rarely 25, 27 or 28 + usually 3, frequently 2; 

 usually 7 or 8 scales above 1. 1., seldom 6, rarely 9; usually 5 scales 

 below 1. 1., occasionally 4, seldom 6, rarely 7; predorsal scales usually 

 17 or 19, frequently 15 or 18, often 16 or 20, sometimes 23, occa- 

 sionally 14, 21 or 22, seldom 25, rarely 13, 24 or 26; snout 24, to 4 in 

 head; eye 2^ to 5; maxillary 2^ to 3f ; interorbital 2f to 3|; teeth 

 2, 4-4, 2; length lj to 7 inches. "Type of P. boumani Girard" 

 (No. 3,236, A. X. S. P.) may not be Girard's type, as he shows an 

 (inly example a little over 4 inches and mine measures only 2U. 

 Cotypes of .1. phtmbeolus 7 (type No. 2,055, A. N. S. P.). Also 

 332 examples, from Halifax, N. S.; Berkshire Hills, Mass.; Sala- 

 manca, N. Y. ; Trenton, Oliphant's Mill, Pitman, Sewell, Mantua, 

 N. .1. ; Stony Run, Gyn Oak Falls, Md. ; head of James River, Holston 

 River, Va.; Nonces River. N. C. ; Coal Creek, Tenn. ; Hicksville, 

 < ). : Miami River, Wabash River, Ind. ; Pine Lake, Grosse Isle. 

 Flint, Belle Isle. Mich.; Michigan City, Anamosa, la.; Marshfield, 

 Sedalia. Carthage, St. Joseph River. Greenfield. Mo.: Lake Whittlesey, 

 Minn.; Fort Riley. Kan. 



Notropis cornutus cerasinus (Cope). PI. XVIII, fie. 31. 



Hypsilepis cornutus cerasinus Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1867, 

 p. 159. Head of Roanoke River. 



Cotypes of H. cornutus cerasinus 42 (type No. 3,791, A. N. S. P.). 

 Only the color given in Cope's account would point to the possibility 

 of it being distinct. He says "it is entirely deep rose the inferior 

 fins crimson." Jordan and Evermann state 8 that it is never more 

 than 4 inches long and yet the type, figured here, is 5. I cannot 

 distinguish Lcuciscus frontalis Agassiz and L. gracilis Agassiz, as a 

 distinct subspecies of N. cornutus. His figure shows about 23? pre- 

 dorsal scales and 8 branched anal rays. Under Hypsilepis frontalis 

 Cope distinguishes a number of Michigan examples. Later he notes 

 others as H. cornutus frontalis, which I have partly examined, and 

 find them to be within the variation of our common cornutus. The 

 strikingly large predorsal scales would suggest a possible distinction 

 were it not that other examples, from remote points in the range of 

 the species, show this character equally well. All of the variations 

 in structure are covered in cornutus. 



Notropis cornutus cyaneus (Cope). PI. XVIII, fig. 32. 



Hypsilepis cornutus cyaneus Cope, Proc. Aca 

 160. Montreal Run, Keeweenaw Point on 



Head 3| to 4£; depth 34 to 4}; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually hi, 8, i, 



Hypsilepis cornutus cyaneus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1867, p. 

 160. Montreal Run, Keeweenaw Point on Lake Superior. 



8 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus.. Xo. 47, I, 1896, p. 283. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



seldom iii, 9. i; scales usually about 31, sometimes 32, rarely 29. 

 33, 34 or 38 + usually 3, rarely 4; usually 9 scales above 1. 1., seldom 

 8; usually 5 scales below 1. 1., seldom 6; usually 28 predorsal scales sel- 

 dom 30, rarely 25, 27, 29 or 32; snout 3£ to 34 in head; eye 3* to 45 ; 

 maxillary 3 to 3£; interorbital 3 to 3£; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 3£ to 



5 inches. Cotypes of H. c. cyaneus 10 (type No. 3,950, A. N. S. P.). 

 Notropis lacertosus (Cope). PI. XIX, fig. 33. 



Hybopsis lacertosus Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., (2) VI, 186S, p 

 232. Bear Creek, Va. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 4£ to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 8, i. rarely 

 iii, 7, i or iii, 9. i ; scales usually 39 or 40, sometimes 36 or 38 + usually 

 2. seldom 3; usually 7 scales above 1. 1., seldom 6, rarely 8?; 4 scale- 

 below 1. 1.; usually 17 predorsal scales, seldom 16 or 18; snout 3^ 

 to 3£ in head; eye 2% to Z\\ maxillary 2\ to 24,; interorbital 24 to 

 3£; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length If to 4f inches. Cotypes of H. lacertosus 5 

 (type No. 2.835, A. N. 8. P. figured) all in poor preservation. Also 



6 examples from the Holston River, Va. The accompanying figure 

 of the type is largely restored. 



Notropis coccogenis (Cope). 



Hypsilepis coccogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 160. 

 Holston River, Va. 



Head 3+ to 4j^; depth 3f to 5; D. iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 8, i, abnor- 

 mally iii, 5, i; A. usually iii, 8, i, frequently iii, 7, i or iii, 9, i, rarely 

 iii, 10, i; scales usually 34, often 41, sometimes 36 or 40, occasionally 

 33^ 35, 38 or 39, seldom 30 or 32, rarely 31 or 37 + usually 3, some- 

 times 2, occasionally 4; usually 7 scales above 1. 1., seldom 6; usually 

 5 ,-cales below 1. 1., seldom 4; usually 17 predorsal scales, frequently 

 16, often 15, 18 or 19, occasionally 14, seldom 20, rarely 13; snout 

 3tV to 3f in head; eye 2f to 4; maxillary 2\ to 2f; interorbital 24^ 

 to 3* ; teeth usually 2, 4-4, 2, rarely 1, 4-4, 2; length 2tV to 5 inches. 

 Cotypes of H. coccogenis Cope 100 (type No. 3,561, A. N. 8. P.). Also 

 42 examples, from Holston River and S. Fork, Ya. ; French Broad 

 River and"Neuce River/" N. C. ; Coal Creek, Tenn. 



Notropis zonatus (Putnam). 



Head 3+ to 4£; depth 3f to 54; I). iii, 7, i ; A. usually iii, 8. i, 

 frequently iii. 7, i, sometimes iii, 9, i, seldom iii, 10, i, rarely iii, 6. i: 

 scales usually 34, frequently 38, often 33 or 40, occasionally 32, 35, 

 37 or 39, rarely 31, 36 or 41 + usually 3, seldom 2; usually 6 scales 

 above 1. 1., sometimes 7, seldom 5, rarely 4; usually 4 or 5 scales 

 below 1. 1., seldom 3 or 6; usually 13 predorsal scales, frequently 

 15. often 14 or 16. sometimes 17; snout 3£ to 3f in head; eye 2\ to 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



?4; maxillary 2f to 3£; interorbital 2| to 3f ; teeth usually 2. 4-4. 2, 

 seldom 1, 4-4, 2, rarely 0, 3-4, 1 or 1?, 4-4, 1 or 0. 4-4. 2 or 2. 3?- 

 4, 0? or 1, 3-4, 2; length 1A to 4 inches. Eighty examples, from 

 Eureka Springs and White River. Ark.; Marshfield, Greenfield, 

 Carthage and James River, Mo. 



Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). PI. XIX, fig, 34. 



Hybopsis rubricroceus Cope. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) VI, 1868, 

 p. 231, PI. 24, fig. 4. Tumbling Creek, X. Fork Holston River, Va. 



Head 3§ to 4; depth 4 to 4f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii. 7. i. rarely 

 iii, 8, i; scales usually 35, often 32, 34, 35 or 39, seldom 37 + 2 or 3; 

 usually 6 scales above 1. 1., occasionally 7; usually 4 scales below 



1. 1., rarely 3; predorsal scales 13 to 17, rarely 18; snout 3| to 3f 

 in head; eye2|to3f; maxillary 2^ to 3; interorbital 2| to 3^ ; teeth 



2, 4-4, 2; length U? to 2 ft, inches. Cotypes of //. rubricroceus 14 

 (type No. 2,907, A. X. S. P.). 



Notropis chlorocephalus (Cope). PI. XIX, fig. 35. 



Hybopsis chlorocephalus Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI. 1870, p. 

 401. Trib. Catawba River, X. C. 



Head 3| to 3f ; depth 4} to 5; D. iii, 7, ] : A. iii, 7. i; scales usually 

 32, 33 or 37, sometimes 30?, 31?, 35 or 36 + usually 3, rarely 2; 6 

 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; predorsal scales usually 16, 

 often 15, sometimes 10 to 14, 17. 19 or 20; snout 3$ to 3| in head: 

 eye 2f to 3; maxillary 2| to 3?-; interorbital 2 A to 3ft; teeth usually 

 1 , 4-4, 1, rarely 1?, 3-4, 1 or 1, 4-4, 0; length li% t<> 2ft inches. Cotypes 

 of H. chlorocephalus 41 (type No. 2.755, A. X. S. P.). 



Notropis chiliticus (Cope). PI. XIX, fig. 36. 



Hybopsis chiliticus Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S70, p. 462. 

 Yadkin River, X. C. 



Head 3f to 3|; depth 4| to 4|; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7. i; scales 



usually 36, seldom 35? or 38 + usually 2, sometimes 3; 7 scales 



above 1. 1.; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 3; usually 15 or 16 



predorsal scales, seldom 17; snout 3ft to 3* in head; eye 2* to 3ft; 



maxillary 2f. to 3; interorbital 2f to 3£; teeth 2, 4-4. 2: lenpth 



1A to 2\ inches. Cotypes of H. chiliticus Cope 11 (type Noj 4.37S, 



A. N. S. P.). 



Notropis altipinnis (Cope). PI. XIX, fig. 37. 



Alburnellus altipinnis Cope, Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1S70, p. 404. 

 Yadkin River, Roane County, X. C. 



Head 4; depth 5£; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8, i; scales 32 + 2; 6 scales 

 above 1. 1. ; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; 16 predorsal scales; snout 3ft in head ; 

 eve 2f ; maxillary 3& ; interorbital 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2A to 2ft 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



inches. Cotypes of -4. altipinnis 3 (type No. 2,846, A. X. S. P.). 

 One example in poor preservation. 



Notropis roseus (Jordan). PI. XIX, fig. 38. 



One from Taylor's Creek, northeast trib. Lake Okeechobe (Heil- 

 prin), Fla. 

 Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). PI. XIX, fig. 39. 



Head 3£ to 4; depth 3| to 4f; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually hi, 7, I, 

 rarely iii, 8, i; scales usually 31, often 30 or 28, seldom 29 or 33 + 

 usually 3, sometimes 2; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., sometimes 7; 

 usually 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 3; usually 15 predorsal scales, 

 sometimes 16 or 17, seldom 13, 14 or 18; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 

 2£ to 3; maxillary 3 to 3|; interorbital 2\ to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 

 1 to If inches. Very many examples, of which 52 were examined 

 from Pensauken, Turnersville and Kinkora, X. J. Example figured 

 from Bristol, Pa, 



Notropis chalybaeus abbotti Fowler. PI. XIX, fig. 40. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 339, PI. 17, upper fig. Batsto River, 

 N. J. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 3£ to 4|; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually iii, 7, i, rarely 

 iii, 8, i; scales usually 29, 30 or 31, sometimes 26 or 34, seldom 27, 

 32 or 36 + usually 2, often 3, rarely 1 ; 6 or 7 scales above 1. 1. ; usually 

 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 3; usually 15 predorsal scales, frequently 

 16, often 17, sometimes 18, seldom 14; snout 34; to 4 in head; eye 

 2% to 3; maxillary 3 to 3+; interorbital 2\ to 2|; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; 

 length 1A to 2A inches. Type and paratypes of N. c. abbotti 19. 

 Also very large series of examples, of which 425 examined, from 

 Brown's Mills, Mare Run, New Lisbon, Porchtown, Oliphant's Mill 

 and Newton's Bridge, N. J. 



Notropis chrosomus (Jordan). PI. XX, fig. 41. 



Hybopsis chrosomus Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., XI, 1876, p. 333. 

 Etowah, Oostanaula and Coosa Rivers, Ga. 



Head 3| to 4; depth 4^ to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 9, i; scales 38 or 

 39 + 2; 7 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 20 or 23 predorsal 

 scales; snout 3 J in head; eye 2f to 2|; maxillary 2% to 2|; inter- 

 orbital 2|; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length lxf to If inches. Cotypes of 

 H. chrosomus 3, from the Etowah River. 

 Notropis xaenocepbalus (Jordan). PI. XX, fig. 42. 



Hybopsis xcenocephalus Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., XI, 1876, p. 334. 

 Etowah, Oostanaula and Coosa Rivers, Ga. 



Head 3f to 44; ; depth 4^ to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 7, i, 

 seldom iii, 6, i; scales usually 29, sometimes 28, 31, 32 or 33 + usually 

 19 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



2, often 1; 5 scales above 1. 1.; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 

 5; usually 12, 13 or 15 predorsal scales, sometimes 14; snout 3| to 

 3f in head; eye 2f to 3f; maxillary 2+ to 3^; interorbital 2f to 3; 

 teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2 to 2rV inches. Cotypes of H. xamocephalus 

 9, from the Etowah River. 



Notropis ariommus (Cope). PI. XX, fig. 43. 



Photogenis ariommus Cope, Tr. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) VI, 1869, p. 

 378. No locality given (White River Indianapolis, Ind.) 



Type of P. ariommus. 



Notropis soabrioeps (Cope). 



Photogenis scabriceps Cope, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 166. 

 Sinking Creek, Walker's Creek and near Austin ville, Va. 



Head 34, to 4; depth 4 to 5f ; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually «ii, 7, i, seldom 



iii, 8, i; scales usually 32, often 33 or 34, seldom 30 or 6\, rarely 36 + 



usually 2, sometimes 3; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., rarely 5; 4 scales 



below 1. 1. ; usually 14 predorsal scales, often 13 or 15, seldom 12, 



rarely 17; snout 3£ to 3f in head; eye 2\ to 3^; maxillary 2f to 3^; 



interorbital 2f to 4; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length lfe to 2it inches. Cotypes 



of P. scabriceps 33 (type No. 7,588, A. N. S. P., from Sinking Creek). 



Notropis swaini Jordan. PI. XX, fig. 44. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1885, p. 123. (Based on cotype of Alburnus mega- 

 lops Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 193. San Felipe Creek, 

 Tex. Name preoccupied in Notropis.) 



Cotype of A. megalops and thus of N. swaini. 



Notropis amabilis (Girard). 



Alburnus amabilis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 193. Rio 

 Leona, affluent of Rio Nueces, Tex. 



Head 3f ; depth 4%; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 8, i; scales 33 + 2; 5 

 scales above 1. 1.; 4 scales below 1. 1.; 16 predorsal scales; snout 

 2% in head; eye 3; maxillary 2f; interorbital 2}; length 2\ inches. 

 Cotype of A. amabilis. 



Notropis luciodus (Cope) PI. XX, fig. 45. 



Photogenis luciodus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, pp. 164, 165. 

 Trib. of Holston River, Va. 



Head 3f to 4+; depth 4 to 5f; D. iii. 7, i; A. usually iii, 7, i, 

 occasionally iii, 8, i, rarely iii, 6, i; scales usually 36, frequently 35, 

 often 38, seldom 37 or 39, rarely 40; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., 

 seldom 5; 4 scales below 1. 1.; usually 15 predorsal scales, frequently 

 14, often 16, seldom 13, rarely 17; snout 3 to 3| in head; eye 2| to 

 3J; maxillary 2f to 3f ; interorbital 2f to 3|; teeth 1, 4-4, 1; length 

 If to 3f inches. Cotypes of P. luciodus 23 (type No. 2,336, A. N. 

 S. «P.). Also 45 examples, from French'Broad River, N. C. ; Cum- 

 berland River, Tenn.; Holston River, Va. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Notropis telescopus (Cope). 



Photogenis telescopus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1867, p. 165. Hol- 

 ston River, Va. 



Head 3f to 4^; depth 4$ to 5|; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, I, 

 sometimes iii, 10, i, occasionally iii, 8, i, very rarely iii, 11, i; scales 

 usually 33, frequently 35, often 34, sometimes 36, occasionally 32 

 or 37, rarely 31, 38 or 39 + usually 2, frequently 3; usually 5 scales 

 above 1. 1., often 6, rarely 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., sometimes 

 3; usually 14 predorsal scales, frequently 13, often 15, rarely 16 or 

 17; snout 3| to 4 in head; eye 2\ to 3; maxillary 2\ to Z\; inter- 

 orbital 2| to 3i; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 1M to 3f inches. Cotypes 

 of P. telescopus 104 (type No. 2,157, A. N. S. P.). Also 167 examples, 

 from Holston River, Va. ; French Broad River and Henderson 

 County, N. C. ; Cumberland River and Coal Creek, Tenn. 



Notropis socius (Girard). 



Alburnus socius Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 193. Live 

 Oak Creek, Tex. 



Head 3£ to 3f; depth 3f to 5; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, 

 often iii, 8, i, seldom iii, 7, i or iii, 10, i; scales usually 34, sometimes 

 36 or 37, occasionally 32, 33 or 35 + usually 2, seldom 3; usually 

 6 scales above 1. 1., rarely 5 or 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., sel- 

 dom 3; usually 15 predorsal scales, often 13 or 16, sometimes 14 or 

 18, seldom 17; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 2£ to 3J; maxillary 2\ to 

 3; interorbital 2| to 3£; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 1A to 2H inches. 

 Cotype of A. socius. Also 54 examples, from Del Rio and Wichita 

 River, Tex. 



Notropis notemigonoides Evermann. 



Head 3| to 4^; depth 3f- to 4£; D. usually iii, 7, i, rarely iii, 6, i; 

 A. usually iii, 9, i or iii, 10, i, sometimes iii, 11, i; scales usually 

 39 to 41, sometimes 36, 37 or 38 + usually 2, rarely 3; usually 8 

 scales above 1. 1., rarely 7 or 9; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 5; 

 predorsal scales sometimes 22, 26 or 27, seldom 23, 24 or 29; snout 

 3 to 3f in head; eye 3 to 3f ; maxillary 2f to 3; interorbital 2| to 

 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length If to 2A inches. Nine examples from 

 Hartford, Ark., and Beaumont, Tex. 



Notropis stilbius (Jordan). PI. XX, fig. 46. 



Nototropis stilbius Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., XI, 1876, p. 343. 

 Etowah River basin, Ga. 



Head 3|; depth 4+; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 10, i; scales 33 + 3; 5 scales 



above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1.; 17 predorsal scales; snout 3\ in 



head; eye 2|; maxillary 2f; interorbital 3±; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 



2\ inches. Cotypes of N. stilbius 2, larger figured. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Notropis atherinoid.es Rafinesque. PL XX, fig. 47. 



Alburnellus jaculus Cope, Tr. Am. Philos. "Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1866, p 

 387. St. Josephs River, Mich. 



Head 31- to 4£; depth 4£ to 6; D. visually iii. 7. i. rarely iii, 6, i; 

 A. usually iii, 9, i, frequently iii, 10, i, seldom iii, 11, i; scales usually 

 36, frequently 37, often 34, sometimes 38 or 39, occasionally 32 or 33, 

 rarely 35 or 40 + usually 2, often 3; usually 6 scales above 1. 1.. 

 often 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., sometimes 3, seldom 5; usually 

 20 predorsal scales, frequently 19. often 16, sometimes 17, 18 or 21, 

 seldom 15, 22 or 23, rarely 24; snout 3£ to 3f in head; eye 2f to 3|: 

 maxillary 2\ to 3f ; interorbital 2^ to 3f ; teeth usually 2. 4-4. 2. 

 rarely 2, 4-4, 1; length If to 4 inches. Cotype of A. jaculus. Also 

 135 examples, from Lake Winnetonka, Minn.; Joliet, 111.; Blue 

 River and Wabash River, Ind.; Sinking Creek. Walker's Creek, and 

 head of James and Roanoke Rivers, Va. ; "Togus Lake near Denver. 

 Col." 



Notropis dilectus (Girard). PL XX, fig. 48. 



AUmrnus oligaspis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1S64, p. 282. Kansas. 



Head 3£ to 4; depth 3| to o\; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, I, seldom 

 iii, 8, i, rarely iii, 10, i; scales often 33, 37 to 39, sometimes 31, 32, 34, 35 

 or 40 + usually 2, seldom 3; usually 7 scales above 1. 1., seldom 6, 

 rarely 8; 4 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 17 or 19 predorsal scales, seldom 

 18 or 21 ; snout 3\ to 3| in head; eye 3 to 3J; maxillary 2i to 3£; 

 interorbital 2| to 3*; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 1H to 2| inches. Cotype.- 

 of A. oligaspis 2 (type No. 2,753, A. N. S. P.). Also 14 examples, 

 from Chester, la. and Greenfield, Mo. 



Notropis rubrifrons (Cope). PL XXI, figs. 49-50. 



AUmrnus rubrifrons Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 85. Kis- 



kiminitas River, Pa. 

 Alburnellus percobromus Cope, Rep. U. S. Geol. Sur. Wyom. Hayden, 1870, 



p. 440. St. Joseph, Mo. 



Head 3f to 3|; depth 3f to 5£; D. hi, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, 

 often iii, 10, i, seldom iii, 8, i; scales usually 34, often 33 or 35, some- 

 times 30 or 32, rarely 31, 36, 37 or 39 + usually 2, often 3; usually 

 6 scales above 1. 1., sometimes 7; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., rarely 

 3; usually 18 predorsal scales, often 17, sometimes 15 or 19, seldom 

 16; snout 3^ to 3^ in head; eye 2| to 3^; maxillary 2\ to 2|; inter- 

 orbital 2f to 3i; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 1& to 2f inches. Cotypes 

 of A. rubrifrons 5 and A. percobromus 17 (type No. 2,993, A. N. S. P.). 

 Also 7 examples, from Carthage, Mo. ; Graham, Tex. ; Kanawha 

 River, Ya. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



Notropis photogenis (Cope). PI. XXI, figs. 51-52. 



Squalius photogenis Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 280. You- 



ghiogheny River, Pa. 

 Photogenis leucops Cope, I. c, 1867, p. 164. Sinking Creek and near Austin- 



ville, Va. 

 P. leucops engraulinus Cope, I. c. Kanawha River, Austin ville, Va. 



Head 3 J to 4J; depth 4f to 6 (6f ?) ; I), iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, 

 i, sometimes iii, 8, i or iii, 10, i, rarely iii, 7, i or iii, 11, i; scales often 

 33, sometimes 35 or 37, seldom 36 or 38, rarely 30, 31, 34 or 40 + 

 usually 2, often 3; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., seldom 7, rarely 5; 

 4 scales below 1. 1. ; usually 17 predorsal scales, often 15, 16 or 18, 

 seldom 19, rarely 13 or 14; snout 3 to 3f in head; eye 2h to 3£; max- 

 illary 2\ to 3|; interorbital 2^ to 3f ; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 1H to 

 4 inches. Cotypes of P. leucops (type No. 2,581, A. N. S. P.) and 

 S. photogenis 2, and type of P. I. engraulinus, the latter in poor preser- 

 vation. 



Notropis photogenis amoenas (Abbott). PI. XXI, fig. 53. 



One from Stony Run, Cecil County, Md. 



Notropis micropteryx (Cope). PI. XXI, fig. 54. 



Alburnellus micropteryx Cope, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., (2) VI, 1869, 

 p. 233. Holston River, Va. 



Head 4 to A\; depth 5 to 5^; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii, 7, i usually, iii, 

 8, i rarely; usually 35 scales, sometimes 34, 36 or 37 + usually 3, 

 often 2; 5 scales above 1. 1.; 3 scales below 1. 1.; usually 17 pre- 

 dorsal scales, sometimes 15, 18 or 19; snout 3f to 3^ in head; eye 

 2f to 3£; maxillary 2\ to 2|; interorbital 2$- to 3£; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; 

 length 2^ to 2t% inches. Cotypes of A. micropteryx 2 (type No. 

 2,842| A. N. S. P.). Also 5 examples, from Eureka Springs, Ark. and 

 Coal Creek, Tenn. 



Notropis lirus (Jordan). PI. XXI, fig. 55. 



Nototropis lirus Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., 1876, p. 342. Etowah 

 River, Rome, Ga. 



Cotype of N. lirus. 



Notropis umbratilis (Girard). 



Luxilus lucidus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, p. 203. Coal 

 Creek, trib. S, Fork Canadian River, Ark. 



Head 3f to 4; depth 3f to 4^; D. iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, 

 seldom iii, 10, i; scales often 39, sometimes 35, seldom 33, 36 or 

 41 + usually 3, seldom 2; usually 9 scales above 1. 1., often 10, 

 rarely 11; usually 4 scales below 1. 1., seldom 5; often 23 to 25 

 predorsal scales, seldom 20, 22, 26 or 27; snout 33- to 3i in head; 

 eye 3 to 3+; maxillary 2* to 3; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



length lit to 2f inches. Cotype of L. lucidus 2. Also 10 examples,, 

 from Marshfield and Sedalia, Mo. 



Notropis umbratilis lythrurus (Jordan). 



Head 3| to 4^; depth 3£ to 4£; D. iii, 7, i; A. iii. 10. i; scales 

 often 37, sometimes 35, 39 or 41 + usually 2, rarely 3; usually 

 10 scales above 1. 1., sometimes 9; 5 scales below 1. 1. ; often 26 

 or 22 predorsal scales, seldom 23; snout 3tV to 3\; eye 3^ to 3f ; 

 maxillary 2£ to 3; interorbital 2f to 3; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2& to 

 2f inches. Seven examples from Indiana, and Lansing, Mich., the 

 latter recorded as Hypsilepis diplcemia Cope. 9 



Notropis umbratilis aniens (Cope). PI. XXI, fig. 56. 



Hypsilepis aniens Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1867, p. 163. Head 

 of Roanoke River, Va. 



Head 4 to 44; depth 4£ to of; 1). iii, 7, i; A. usually iii, 9, i, often 



iii, 10, i, occasionally iii, 8, i, seldom iii, 7, i or iii, 11, i, rarely iii,. 



12, i; scales often 40 to 42, seldom 35 or 39 4- usually 2 or 3, rarely 



4; usually 8 scales above 1. 1., seldom 7, rarely 9; usually 4 scales 



below 1. 1., rarely 5; often 24, 26 or 27 predorsal scales, sometimes 



22, 23 or 25; snout 3& to 3$ in head; eye 3 to 3f; maxillary 2f to 2|; 



interorbital 3 to 3£; teeth 2, 4-4, 2; length 2\ to Z\ inches. Cotypes 



of H. ardens 48 (type No. 3,268, A. X. S. P.). Also 176 examples 



from S. Fork of Cumberland River, Tenn. 



Explanation of Plates XV-XXI. 



Plate XV — Fig. 1 — Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). Example from Holmesburg,. 

 Phila., Pa. 

 Fig. 2 — N. cayuga Meek. Example from Silver Lake, la. 

 Fig. 3 — N. fretensis (Cope). Type of Hybopsis fretensis Cope. 

 Fig. 4 — N. deliciosus (Girard). Cotype of Montana deliciosa Girard. 

 Fig. 5 — N. deliciosus (Girard). Type of Hybognathus slramineus Cope. 

 Fig. 6 — N. deliciosus (Girard). Type of Hybopsis missuriensis Cope. 

 Fig. 7 — N. volucellus (Cope). Example from Hicksville, O. 

 Fig. S — N. procne (Cope). Cotype of Hybognathus procne Cope. 



Plate XVI — Fig. 9 — N. procne longiceps (Cope). Type of Hybopsis longicep* 



Cope. 

 Fig. 10 — X. blennius (Girard). Cotype of Alburnops blennius Girard. 

 Fig. 11 — N. illecebrosus (Girard). Cotype of Alburnops illecebrosus Girard. 

 Fig. 12 — N. gilberti Jordan and Meek. Cotype. 

 Fig. 13 — N. boops Gilbert. Example fromBlue River, Ind. 

 Fig. 14 — N. hudsonius selene (Jordan). Example from Sparrow Lake,. 



Ont. 

 Fig. 15 — N. h. amarus (Girard). Type of Hybopsis phaenna Cope. 

 Fig. 16 — N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Cotype of Cyprinella sauvii 



Girard. 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 279, and I. c, 1867, p. 162. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Plate XVII — Fig. 17 — N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Cotype of Moniana 



Icetabilis Girard. 

 Fig. 18 — -N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Cotype of Moniana gracilis 



Girard . 

 Fig. 19 — N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Type of Cyprinella billingsiana 



Cope. 

 Fig. 20 — N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Type of Moniana jugalis Cope. 

 Fig. 21 — N. lutrensis (Baird and Girard). Type of Cliola montiregis Cope. 

 Fig. 22 — N. proserpina (Girard). Cotype of Moniana proserpina Girard. 

 Fig. 23 — N. ludibundus (Girard). Cotype of Cyprinella ludibunda Girard. 

 Fig. 24 — N. stigmaturus (Jordan). Cotype of Photogenis stigmaturus 



Jordan . 



Plate XVIII — Fig. 25 — N. eallistius (Jordan). Cotype of Photogenis callistius 



Jordan. 

 Fig. 26 — N. cseruleus (Jordan). Cotype of Photogenis cairuleus Jordan. 

 Fig. 27— N. niveus (Cope). Type of Hybopsis niveus Cope. 

 Fig. 28 — N. whipplii (Girard). Cotype of Photogenis spiloplerus Cope. 

 Fig. 29 — N. pyrrhomelas (Cope). Type of Photogenis pyrrhomelas Cope. 

 Fig. 30 — N. cornutus (Mitchill). Type of Alburnops plumbeolus Cope. 

 Fig. 31 — N. c. cerasinus (Cope). Type of Hypsilepis cornutus cerasinus 



Cope. 

 Fig. 32 — N. c. cyaneus (Cope). Type of Hypsilepis cornutus cyaneus Cope. 



Plate XIX — Fig. 33— N. lacertosus (Cope). Type of Hybopsis lacertosus Cope. 

 Fig. 34 — N. rubricroceus (Cope). Type of Hybopsis rubricroceus Cope. 

 Fig. 35 — N. chlorocephalus (Cope). Type of Hybopsis chlorocephalus Cope. 

 Fig. 36 — N. chiliticus (Cope). Type of Hybopsis chiliticus Cope. 

 Fig. 37 — N. altipinnis (Cope). Type of Alburnellus altipinnis Cope. 

 Fig. 38 — N. roseus (Jordan). Example from Taylor's Creek, Fla. 

 Fig. 39 — N. chalybseus (Cope). Example from Bristol, Pa. 

 Fig. 40 — N. c. abbotti Fowler. Type. 



Plate XX — Fig. 41 — N. chrosomus (Jordan). Cotype of Hybopsis chrosomus 



Jordan . 

 Fig. 42 — N. xsenocephalus (Jordan). Cotype of Hybopsis xamocephalus 



Jordan. 

 Fig. 43 — N. ariommus (Cope). Type of Photogenis ariommus Cope. 

 Fig. 44 — N. swaini Jordan. Cotype of Alburnus megalops Girard and N. 



swaini Jordan. 

 Fig. 45 — N. luciodus (Cope). Type of Photogenis luciodus Cope. 

 Fig. 46 — N. stilbius (Jordan). Cotype of Nototropis stilbius Jordan. 

 Fig. 47 — N. atherinoides Rafinesque. Cotype of Alburnellus jaculus Cope 

 Fig. 48 — N. dilectus (Girard). Type of Alburnus oligaspis Cope. 



Plate XXI — Fig. 49 — N. rubrifrons (Cope). Type of Alburnus rubrifrons 

 Cope. 

 Fig. 50 — N. rubrifrons (Cope). Type of Alburnellus percobromus Cope. 

 Fig. 51 — N. photogenis (Cope). Type of Squalius photogenis Cope. 

 Fig. 52 — N. photogenis (Cope). Type of Photogenis leucops Cope. 

 Fig. 53 — N. p. amoenus (Abbott). Example from Holmesburg, Phila., Pa. 

 Fig. 54 — N. micropteryx (Cope). Type of Alburnellus micropteryx Cope. 

 Fig. 55 — N. lirus (Jordan). Cotype of Nototropis lirus Jordan. 

 Fig. 56 — N. umbratilis ardens (Cope). Type of Hypsilepis ardens Cope. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 

 MARGARET HARRIS COOK, PH.D 



Contents. 



PAGE 



Introduction 294 



I. Previous Work 295 



II. Material and Methods 29S 



III. Ohservations 299 



A. Callosamia piomethea 301 



1. Spermatogonia 301 



2. Growth Period of the Spermatocyte 302 



3. Prophase of first Maturation 303 



4. Maturation Divisions 305 



5. The Idiochromosomes 305 



6. Metamorphosis of the Spermatids 306 



7. Centrosomes 307 



B. Telea polyphenols 309 



C. Antomeris io 311 



D. Samia ceeropia 312 



E. Acronycta sp 314 



F. Spermatids and Spermatozoa 315 



IV. Theoretical Considerations 317 



V. Summary 320 



VI. Literature 322 



Description of Plates I-VI 324 



Introduction. 



Ever since Henking's work on the spermatogenesis of Pyrrhocoris 

 apterus (1891) it has been known that in one maturation division one 

 chromosome may go undivided into one of the daughter cells, so giving 

 two classes of spermatids. The significance of this fact was not recog- 

 nized until ten years later, when McClung (1901) advanced the purely 

 theoretical view that this dimorphism of the spermatozoa bore a direct 

 relation to the determination of sex, and suggested that the spermatozoa 

 containing the extra chromosome, which was called by him the acces- 

 sory chromosome, were the male determinants. In 1905 Stevens for 

 Coleoptera and Wilson for Hemiptera showed, by comparing the number 

 of chromosomes in the spermatocyte and oocyte, that the accessory 

 chromosome had its homologue in the egg and hence was the female and 

 not the male determinant. That this marked difference in the behavior 

 of the accessory chromosomes from the other chromosomes in one of 

 the maturation divisions, together with the new interpretation of its 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. £ 295 



function, might throw light on the chromatin substance and its bearing 

 on heredity seemed more probable than ever before, e^pe<'ially if it 

 could be shown that this held true for all classes of animals. In sum- 

 marizing the work on this subject, McClung (1902) says the accessory 

 chromosome has been found in all insects so far studied, is present in 

 different members of Orthoptera, and, in examining material from 

 Hemiptera, Neuroptera, Coleoptera, and Lepidoptera, this body was 

 found. Miss Wallace has found it in Arachnida and the probability of 

 its general occurrence in Arthropods is thus largely increased. Some 

 hurried examination of vertebrate spermatocytes lead McClung to 

 believe that the accessory chromosome is likewise present among ver- 

 tebrates and that it will probably be found to be universal. 



Except this reference of McClung's to the accessory in Lepidoptera, 

 no other mention of it was found ; and, since no recent detailed exam- 

 ination of the spermatogenesis of Lepidoptera had been undertaken, it 

 seemed advisable to examine members of this group. Accordingly, in 

 September, 1905, at Dr: Conklin's suggestion, I began to collect material 

 with the purpose of studying the accessory chromosome in Lepidoptera. 

 Testes were fixed and cut from a number of genera and species, but in 

 most cases were found unsatisfactory. Philosamia cyntltia was partic- 

 ularly clear and was chosen as a basis for comparative work. Owing 

 to the publication of Dederer (1907) on this species, I shall refer to my 

 own work only when my results differ from hers. 



This paper contains, aside from references to Philosamia cynthia, a 

 study of the spermatogenesis of CaUosamia promethea, Telea polyphemus, 

 Automeris to, Samia cecropia, and Acronycta (sp. ?) as well as a few com- 

 parisons with Danais archippus and Papilio cresphontes. I am indebted 

 to Prof. Calvert, of the University of Pennsylvania, and to Dr. Skinner, 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences, for aid in the identification of 

 the species here described. The work was done in the Biological 

 Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania under the direction of 

 Prof. Edwin G. Conklin. I am glad of this opportunity to express my 

 feeling of gratitude to Prof. Conklin for his help and encouragement 

 throughout the years of my work as well as for his suggestions and for 

 criticisms of this paper. 



I. Previous Work. 



The published works upon Spermatogenesis in Lepidoptera may be 

 divided into two classes: the earlier works, including those of Carnoy 

 (1884), Platner (1889), Cholodkovsky (1894), Verson (1894), Erlanger 

 (1896), La ValetteSt. George (1897), Henneguy (1891), Meves (1890), 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and Toyama (1903) ; the later, those of Munson (1907), Stevens (1906), 

 and Dederer (1907). The earlier workers concerned themselves 

 principally with the origin of the sex cells and the formation of the 

 spermatozoa, with especial reference to achromatic structures. Thus 

 Cholodkovsky finds in the closed flask-shaped end of the testis tube of 

 Laphria a large cell from which the cells of the testis arise ; and the same 

 subject has been studied by Yerson, La Valette St. George and Toyama 

 for Bombyx mori. Of all the earlier workers it is perhaps to La Valette 

 St. George, more than to any student of this group, that we are most 

 indebted, for to him we owe our present nomenclature. In 1884 Carnoy, 

 studying the larval testes of two moths, Chelonia caja and Arctia jul- 

 iginosa, made the observation, confirmed for the species here studied, 

 that all the celLs in the same cyst are in the same stage of development 

 and he figures and describes a few steps in the development of the first 

 spermatocytic division. In C. caja the twenty-four rodlike chromo- 

 somes divide longitudinally and move to opposite poles, while in A. 

 fuliginosa the chromosomes in a side view are seen upon a spindle as 

 dumb-bells with a transverse constriction. An equatorial plate shows 

 twenty-eight chromosomes so arranged that the twenty peripheral 

 chromosomes surround the eight interior ones. Carnoy's observations 

 on this group are very limited, owing to the fact that he found 

 his material unsatisfactory for studying the reconstructive stages 

 of the nucleus. Platnerwas the first to describe the whole course 

 of development of spermatogenesis for Lepidoptera. He described 

 the thirty chromosomes in the first spermatocytic division of 

 Pygcera and Sphinx as short rods with transverse constrictions, 

 and since the rods in the mitotic figure are arranged parallel to 

 the spindle axis, this constriction marks the first plane of division. 

 He confused the acrosome and centrosome, yet confirmed Butschli's 

 observations by showing that the " large mitosome, " Butschli's " Neben- 

 kern ", functions in the formation of the tail of the spermatid. His work, 

 like that of Erlanger (1896) and LaValette St. George (1897), deals 

 largely with the achromatic structures of the nucleus. Of special inter- 

 est in the light of recent work is Platner's account of the nucleolus, 

 which he describes as one or two rather large and deeply stain bag 

 bodies which are spherical in shape and eccentrically placed. It seems 

 very probable that these are comparable to the equal pair of idiochro- 

 mosomes figured for the forms described in the present study. 



Toyama (1902; his second paper, 1903, I have been unable to find) 

 describes the whole spermatogenic cycle for Bombyx. He begins with 

 a discussion of the formation of the early spermatogonia in the per- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



ipheral end of the testis around a large cell which he considers a follicle 

 cell, in opposition to Verson's (1894) idea that it is a large sperma- 

 togonium, which by mitotic division gives rise to all the spermatogonia. 

 La Valette St. George (1897), also working on Bombyx, failed to confirm 

 Verson. Toyama finds twenty-six to twenty-eight chromosomes in the 

 spermatogonia. These split longitudinally before the formation of the 

 spindle, so that they appear in the prophase of the first spermatocyte 

 as ring-shaped bodies which are each made up of four chromosomes. 

 According to Toyama the first division of these chromosomes is trans- 

 verse ; the second is not a true division but a separation of whole chro- 

 mosomes, fourteen passing into each cell. During the spindle stage a 

 persistent nucleolus is found which shows no change in the resting stage 

 of the first spermatocytes and is seen to consist of small chromatin 

 granules imbedded in a less dense matrix. This nucleolus is later pushed 

 into the cytoplasm. Meves (1897) working on six species of Lepidop- 

 tera, confined himself largely to cytoplasmic structures. He assigns 

 a different origin to the Nebenkern from that of Butschli and Platner 

 and makes the interesting observation, for the first time, that an axial 

 filament grows out of the centrosome of the resting spermatocyte. 

 Henneguy (1897) confirms this observation of Meves for Bombijx mori 

 and Hyponomenta cognatella. 



Of the more recent contributions, Munson's (1906) on Papilio rutvlus 

 is chiefly devoted to cytoplasmic structures and is hard to bring into 

 relation with the observations of modern workers, since it shows no 

 contraction stage of the chromatin and no synapsis, " unless a temporary 

 conjugation may be considered to take place when the twenty-eight 

 chromosomes are arranged in a line of seven, four deep." These 

 "tetrads" break up into fourteen dyads. The first maturation division 

 is equational, the second, like that described by Toyama, is not a true 

 division, but a sorting of chromosomes, fourteen going to one pole, four- 

 teen to the other. In the work of Stevens and Dederer special atten- 

 tion is given to the chromatic elements. Stevens (1906) figures and 

 briefly describes the spermatogenesis of Cacoecia and Euvanessa. In 

 both species there are thirty chromosomes in the first and second 

 spermatocytes and in both there is one large chromosome, which corre- 

 sponds to the two-lobed body in the growth stage; this body stains 

 differentially in gentian-violet and can be traced through synizesis, 

 synapsis, growth stages, and both first and second maturation divisions, 

 and is interpreted as an equal pair of idiochromosomes comparable to 

 those found by Wilson (1905, b) in Nezara. Dederer (1907) studied the 

 spermatogenesis of P. cynthia. Of the thirteen chromosomes (reduced 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



number) one shows marked individuality throughout ; it is always in 

 close connection with the plasmasome, stains deeply when the other 

 chromosomes have lost their staining properties, and in early prophase 

 is seen to take a form similar to the other chromosomes. Dederer, like 

 Stevens, interprets this chromosome, as a pair of equal idiochromosomes 

 of the Nezara type. 



II. Material and Methods. 



My material was largely collected in the vicinity of Philadelphia, and 

 was fixed at intervals throughout the pupal stage. The ventral wall of 

 the abdomen was cut along its length and pinned back ; after removing 

 the intestines, the fixing fluid was immediately injected into the body 

 so that the testes were fixed during dissection. Of a number of solutions 

 used, Flemming's strong solution, Hermann's platino-aceto osmic, and 

 Gilson's mercuro-nitric gave the best results. Material fixed in Flemming 

 for from six to twelve hour-, washed the same length of time in run- 

 ning water, and preserved in various percentages of alcohol, was most 

 satisfactory: here both chromatic and achromatic structures were 

 sharply defined, and the shrinkage which a longer fixation so often 

 produces was avoided. Preparations which had been so fixed and run 

 through the alcohols were then cleared in xylol and embedded in hard 

 paraffin with a melting point of 55° C. Sections were cut from three to 

 nine microns thick. Various stains were used: The best cytological 

 results were obtained with Heidenhain's hematoxylin followed by 

 orange-G; this stain gave an almost perfect definition and was used for 

 all general and for most of the detailed work. Thionin . I )elafield's haema- 

 toxylin, safranin and light green, Hermann's saf ran in-gentian-violet, 

 Auerbach's and Biondi-Erlich's stains were used for micro-chemical 

 tests, but with at best indifferent success. The greatest difficulty 

 encountered in technique has been in finding a stain which will clearly 

 differentiate basichromatin from oxychromatin. In the early spring 

 of 1907 I began to make smear preparations by spreading bits of testes 

 upon a slide with dissecting needles, and after drying, staining them in 

 Bismarck Brown for twenty-four hours as described by Foot-Strobell 

 (1905). These proved very helpful. The cells stretched in drying and 

 were several times larger than those in sections, so that they were espe- 

 cially useful in studying spireme stages and in counting chromosomes 

 in cell plates. Their disadvantage lies chiefly in the lack of the sequence 

 of stages so clear in sections, but when studied in connection with sec- 

 tions and particularly when the number of chromosomes is small, they 

 have been invaluable. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



III. Observations. 



To the family of Saturnids belong those moths which are silk 

 weavers par excellence in the caterpillar state. Among our most common 

 native species are Callosamia promethea and Samia cecropia, which 

 emerge from the pupa case in May or June. Much has been written of 

 the keenness of the mating instinct in promethea and my own observa- 

 tions confirm these accounts. The moths mate and lay eggs which 

 hatch in from eleven to fourteen days and the caterpillar pupates in 

 from five and a half to eight weeks, depending upon its supply of food. 

 The pupae of C. promethea are very like those of P. cynthia and the two 

 may be easily confused. This is especially true since the caterpillar of 

 P. cynthia will live upon the same food plants as that of C. promethea, 

 but in this case it is smaller than usual and weaves a cocoon just like 

 that of C. promethea. The number of chromosomes in an equatorial 

 plate differs in the two and it was sometimes necessary to use this means 

 of identifying these two species. 



The testes inLepidoptera originate as paired glands. They are situ- 

 ated under and on each side of the intestine in the region of the sixth 

 segment. In moths of the family Saturnidee these organs are paired 

 and develop in size until just before the moth emerges, when the ripe 

 spermatozoa are discharged into the greatly enlarged vas deferens and 

 the testes become smaller, shrivelled, and translucent. In Danais 

 archippus, Papilio cresphontes, and in Acronycta (sp.?) the testes, which 

 are paired in the larval stage, during the pupal stage become closely 

 applied to each other along the midline and form a single spheroidal 

 body, colored almost royal purple in D. archippus due to the pigment 

 of the surrounding epithelial coat. In D. archippus (summer brood) the 

 testes contained developed spermatozoa six days after pupation, the 

 time of pupal development being from eleven to fourteen days. In 

 moths the rate of development varies with the species. Some S. 

 cecropia and A. io kept in the laboratory became imagoes in January, 

 while C. promethea under similar conditions shows much greater retar- 

 dation. Promethea fixed in February showed a few first maturation 

 divisions and then came a long period when from March to May devel- 

 opment of the spermatozoa did not proceed farther than the spermatids. 

 The testes of the saturnids are kidney-shaped, tinged the faintest yellow 

 and divided into four lobes ; they are surrounded by a layer of con- 

 necting tissue, which forms partitions between the lobes and between 

 the cysts. The cells are arranged in the order of their development, from 

 the periphery inward: the extreme anterior end of the testis until late 

 in development is occupied by the primordial germ cells — the sperma- 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



togonia, either singly or in groups, but not yet surrounded by a mem- 

 brane. No early larval material was obtained, so the origin of the- 

 spermatogonia, whether from a "Verson cell," a metamorphosed sper- 

 matogonium, or arising around a supporting follicle cell, cannot be 

 discussed. The primordial germ cells divide and redivide until a certain 

 number of daughter cells is formed, usually from sixteen to twenty- 

 four. These are then grouped into cysts surrounded by connective 

 tissue and containing cells in about the same stage of development. 

 Between this region of the spermatogonia and the spermatocyte of the 

 growth period are found all stages of synizesis and synapsis. 



Throughout the testes, but especially where spermatogonia are 

 changing into spermatocytes, whole cysts of degenerating cells are 

 found; in these the chromatin is gathered into one large or several 

 small, compact, deeply staining granules, while the cytoplasm is gran- 

 ular and stringy. In Auerbach's and other differential stains these 

 granules stain like active chromatin, showing that a chemical change is 

 taking place in them. Though these degenerating cysts are far more 

 common in this region than elsewhere, yet they are found throughout 

 the testes, especially where spermatids are forming. Paulmier (1899) 

 figured and described just such degenerating cells for Anasa tristis; 

 though here they are found only after the spermatogonic and before 

 the spermatocytic stages: their appearance in this region of special 

 growth caused Paulmier to interpret them as "food cells." Munson 

 (1906) suggests that a cause for disintegration may be found in the 

 failure of the chromatin to secrete karyolymph. Dederer's (1907) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



observation of the division in autumn of a few first spermatocytes of 

 P. cynthia and her suggestion that these degenerating cysts of cells can 

 be traced to the degeneration of those cells which have undergone 

 precocious maturation seems an excellent explanation of their origin. 



Next to these synapsis and synizesis stages and arranged in some 

 sort of sequence from the periphery to the center of the cysts are found 

 ■spermatocytes in various stages of growth; primary spermatocytes, 

 secondary spermatocytes, spermatids, and developing and developed 

 spermatozoa. 

 Callosamia promethea. 



1. Spermatogonia. — The spermatogonia of promethea are small oval 

 cells which in their earlier stages are crowded together and closely 

 pressed against the walls of the testes. Secondary spermatogonia are 

 somewhat larger and extend further inward so that they are easily 

 studied. In what Wilson (1902) says has been falsely characterized as 

 ""the resting stage", the nuclei are spherical and faintly staining and 

 fill by far the greater part of the cell ; within the nucleus is found an irreg- 

 ular meshwork of linin threads upon which chromatin granules are scat- 

 tered. In the early spermatogonial cells (PI. XXII, figs. 1 , 2 and 3) there 

 ■are found chromatic masses or "net knots" : they are spherical and re- 

 semble plasmosomes in which chromatin granules are entangled. These 

 granules are of the same size as those scattered throughout the nucleus, 

 and that they are simply an aggregation of these is suggested by the 

 fact that in later stages, when the granules are more widely scattered 

 through the nucleus, this net knot, after decreasing in size and in the 

 number of contained granules, finally disappears (fig. 4). The basi- 

 chromatin granules now stain more deeply and become aggregated 

 along the linin to form a spireme. It has been impossible in C. prome- 

 thea to distinguish any structure in this spireme, though in smear prep- 

 arations of P. cynthia it is clearly seen to be composed of twenty-six 

 pairs of chromosomes lying side by side and each joined to the other by 

 linin threads. The significance of this will be discussed later. The 

 chromatin of the spireme condenses, and in equatorial plates of the 

 last spermatogonial division thirty-eight small, densely stained, and 

 compact chromosomes may be made out (fig 6). In smear preparations 

 this plate is easily seen, and among the chromosomes one pair is very 

 plainly smaller than all the others ; but even here, where the size of the 

 plate is enlarged many times by the method of fixation, it is still too 

 small to offer much opportunity for studying size relations. 



In preparation for the last spermatogonial division the chromosomes 

 become regularly arranged upon the spindles, divide equally and are 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



drawn towards the poles, the cell lengthens and with it the connecting 

 fibres. At the point at which the new cell wall will be laid down a 

 zwischenkorper of four small granules is to be seen (fig. 9). It was just 

 at this stage of telophase that Montgomery (1900) was able to demon- 

 strate that synapsis took place by an end-to-end union of homologous 

 pairs of chromosomes; in C. promethea the chromosomes were often 

 distinguishable as somewhat feathery bodies with linin connections,, 

 but they were so closely crowded, due to the small size of the cell and 

 large number of chromosomes, that it was impossible to follow the 

 process. After the separation of the chromosomes the centrosomes 

 divide and the nuclear membrane is reconstructed to form the cells of 

 the primary spermatocyte. 



2. Growth Period of the Primary Spermatocyte. — It is during this 

 period, when the cells grow but do not divide, that the chromatin under- 

 goes marked changes : it first forms a long spireme which is seen to be 

 looped on one side of the nucleus; as the looping proceeds, the chroma- 

 tin mass stains more deeply until it is impossible in ordinary prepara- 

 tions to make out anything of the spireme arrangement (fig. 12). Tnix 

 is the "synizesis" of McClung or "the contraction stage" of Wilson. 

 Since similar stages have been described by Wilson, Stevens, and a 

 number of workers on insect spermatogenesis, and since similar stages 

 appear in smear preparations, there seems little doubt but that this 

 contraction stage plays a perfectly normal part in the constructive 

 life of the cell and is not an artifact, as argued by McClung (1900). The 

 number of cells showing different stages in synizesis varies with the 

 period of development : in young pupae they ma} r occupy almost half 

 the testes, while in later stages relatively few cells may be found which 

 show this condition. What takes place during this period of intense 

 staining and contraction of the chromatin it has been impossible to 

 make out; for even when much destained little can be seen. Some 

 help has been found in smear preparations where the long thin 

 thread can be clearly seen to be formed of chromatin granules with 

 linin connections (fig. 13); though this stains much less deeply than in 

 sections, so that somewhat of its structure can be made out, yet it is 

 never definite enough to enable one to follow the steps of contraction 

 nor to determine whether conjugation of the chromosomes takes place 

 during this stage. The chromatin comes out of the contraction stage 

 by an unwinding of the condensed thread ; in a few cases this could be 

 traced as a continuous spireme (fig. 19), though usually it is made up of 

 a small number of loops which at first only partly fill the nucleus : this 

 corresponds to "stage e" or "early post synapsis" of Wilson (1905). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



In the next .stage, or late post-synapsis (figs. 20 and 21), the threads 

 are somewhat contracted but more widely spread throughout the 

 nucleus. In smear preparations (figs. 19, 20 and 21) the spireme of both 

 early and late post-synapsis shows a longitudinal split which corresponds 

 To a similar split in the last spermatogonial spireme (as seen in cyntliia). 

 The spireme now segments into the reduced number of chromosomes 

 (fig 22) : in smear preparations it may still show the longitudinal split 

 of the late synapsis stage; in sections, where there is always a greater 

 concentration of chromatin granules, the spireme is shown segmented 

 into loops which have their middle point marked either by a thinner 

 part or by a slight knob-like projection. This marks the plane of the 

 first division (fig. 22). During the growth stage the spermatocyte 

 greatly increases in size, while its basi-chromatin almost completely 

 loses its staining property and becomes loose and indefinite in structure. 

 This is true only in part, for in smear preparations, in which the chro- 

 matin segments stain less deeply but never entirely lose their identit} 7 

 (fig. 26), the chromosomes are seen as faintly staining bodies made up 

 of chromomeres joined by linin threads. It is at this period that, for 

 the first time, a spheroidal, darkly staining body appears and stands 

 out in sharp contrast to the faintly stained nucleus ; it is usually eccen- 

 trically placed, and is often seen dividing so that it may appear as two 

 separate bodies or as a dumbbell (fig. 23). Its appearance, behavior, 

 and staining reaction suggest its similarity to the accessory chromosome 

 of McClung, the chromatin nucleus of Montgomery (1901), the hetero- 

 tropic chromosome or idiochromosome of Wilson, and the odd chromo- 

 some of Stevens; while its frequent dyad nature during the growth 

 period, indicating its bivalence, and its subsequent behavior, relate 

 it to the third type described by Wilson, in which the idiochromosomes 

 are of equal size. Following the terminology of Wilson, I shall call this 

 body the idiochromosome. 



3. Prophase of First Maturation Division. — In preparation for the 

 first maturation division the chromatin again assumes its staining 

 property and definite groups of chromatin granules appear upon the 

 spireme, the nineteen aggregations of basi-chromatin which have been 

 distinguishable throughout the growth stage in smear preparations 

 now become more clearly defined, the longitudinal split of the spireme 

 is still seen and each chromosome is joined to the other by a continuous 

 linin thread (fig. 26). A similar condition is seen in sections where each 

 chromosome shows a longitudinal split, while some of the chromosomes 

 are beginning to join to form rings (fig. 27). In a little later stage the 

 segments have opened into ring-like granules (figs. 32 and 28) and 

 20 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



exactly correspond at this time to the ring-shaped chromosomes figured 

 by vom Rath (1892) for Gryllotalpa. Blackman (1905) considers the first 

 maturation division of Scolopendra a longitudinal one because "the 

 longitudinal division of the chromatin segments Is the first which occurs 

 in prophase"; but though in promethea the longitudinal division is 

 present from post-synapsis, yet this is clearly the plane of the second 

 maturation division and must be explained as a precocious splitting. 

 Constrictions such as are seen in figs. 22 and 26 can be easily traced 

 to such stages as are seen in figs. 28, 30 and 31. By concentration small 

 thicker rings are formed, until, by continued thickening, the central 

 space becomes more and more reduced and in most cases the longi- 

 tudinal split is entirely or almost entirely concealed. It may be^ re- 

 tained as a narrow slit between the two ends of a dumbbell or a rounded 

 or diamond-shaped space in the center of an occasional tetrad (figs. 

 37 and 38). 



ft r w ■ H 



c 



b <x D ° G '^ c O d ^ yt S * 



A B 



The changes in form which the chromosomes undergo during pro- 

 phase are shown in text figs. A and B. 



In early prophase the chromosomes appear first as granular aggre- 

 gations, as at A and E; these aggregations next open wide to form 

 granular rings B; then by condensation the rings become much thicker 

 and the granular appearance is lost. Rings may be lengthened, C, and 

 show slight constrictions which mark the plane of the first division, or 

 may be clearly rounded, D; F and G shows an approach to tetrads. 

 Complete condensation is rarely seen in smear preparations, a, b, c, 

 are the earliest stages shown in sections. These are made up of 

 more of less condensed granules with no indication of a longitudinal 

 split, but a slight constriction is usually seen as in a and b ; and though 

 no split is seen, yet stages like d and e make it necessary to assume such 

 a stage. The granules are single and the ring of about one-half the 

 thickness of the loop, and the ends which overlap in d become joined in 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



e. Condensation now takes place into dumbbells and tetrads and the 

 longitudinal and transverse planes of division can be clearly made out. 

 4. Maturation Divisions. — The chromosomes formed by the conden- 

 sation of rings now become arranged upon the fibres so that a side view 

 of the spindle during metaphase shows the chromosomes as symmetri- 

 cal dyads which are so placed that the first division, which is always 

 equal, may be seen to be transverse, and, if conjugation has taken 

 place as I believe by an end-to-end union of the chromosomes, division 

 is reducing (PL XXIII, figs. 42, 43). An equatorial plate during meta- 

 phase shows nineteen chromosomes (PL XXIII. fig. 40). While the 

 chromosomes are in metaphase the centrosomes divide and each becomes 

 enclosed by a small centrosphere ; as division proceeds the astral rays 

 increase in length until they seem to press against the wall of the cell, 

 a constriction is seen in the cytoplasm and the zwischenkorper is formed 

 at this point (fig. 44). During late anaphase the chromosomes become 

 so crowded as to lose their separate outlines (fig. 45), but these become 

 distinguishable in the prophase of the second maturation which is 

 rapidly passed over (fig. 46). 



The spindle of the second maturation division is quickly formed 

 and the chromosomes become arranged upon it as dyads (fig. 50). 

 The second maturation spindle in both methods of fixation can be 

 distinguished from the first by its smaller size and by the smaller size 

 of the chromosomes. Division, like that of the first maturation, is 

 equal, and the chromosomes may be seen in anaphase as separate, 

 spherical bodies (fig. 51), while in telophase they are a densely stain- 

 ing mass about which a nuclear membrane is forming (figs. 53 and 54). 

 The second division of the chromosomes is longitudinal and may be 

 traced back to the longitudinal split of the spireme. The centrosomes 

 and their accompanying structures show much the same behavior 

 in the second as in the first division ; the cells increase greatly in length 

 and a constriction, which is marked by the zwischenkorper, appears 

 at the equator. 



Since there is no unequal division of chromatin material in either 

 the first or second maturation divisions, it is clear that there is no 

 "accessory chromosome" and hence no visible dimorphism of the 

 spermatozoa; there are, however, reasons for believing that the 

 peculiarity of behavior of one of the bivalents during the growth stage 

 classes it with Nezara as an equal pair of idiochrom xsomes. 



5. The Idiochromosome. — While the other chromosomes have been 

 undergoing these changes of form, the idiochromosome described for 

 the growth stage as a single or double body (figs. 23-29), which reacted 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



to basi-chromatin stains, has also changed in shape and apparently 

 in structure. What during the growth stage appeared as a homo- 

 geneous mass shows as prophase advances a clearer plasmosome and a 

 darker chromatin part. In smear preparations, when all the chromo- 

 somes can be seen at one time, it becomes perfectly clear that this 

 idiochromosome forms one of the nineteen chromosomes. Fig. 39 

 shows this to be true even into late prophase. This is a smear prepara- 

 tion in which the plasmosome of the same size as the chromosomes 

 may be recognized as a clearer body with a central chromatin band. 

 In early prophase in both smears and sections, when the spireme 

 is splitting or opening into rays, this body may assume a ring 

 shape (fig. 27), showing a lighter central space around which 

 is arranged the chromatin. Because of its close connection with 

 the plasmosome the idiochromosome always appears larger in these 

 stages than any of the other elements, but with its condensation 

 into a ring or dumbbell-shaped chromosome this size relation is lost, 

 and after its dissociation from the plasmosome I was unable to dis- 

 tinguish it from the other chromosomes. Although this idiochromo- 

 some is first seen in C. promethea after the late post-synapsis when 

 the chromatin has lost its staining property, yet its subsequent history 

 make- it seem more than probable that it was present from the earliest 

 stages: whether the net knots of the spermatogonia bear any relation 

 to this or whether the idiochromosome has been separated from the 

 rest of the chromatin during synizesis must remain conjectural. Its 

 condensed condition during the growth stage and frequent early 

 division while the rest of the chromatin is passing through the usual 

 series of changes before entering upon prophase, as well as its close 

 relationship with the plasmosome, point to the fact that, certainly in 

 structure and possibly in function, this idiochromosome shows pecu- 

 liarities which separate it from the other chromosomes. 



6. Metamorphosis of the Spermatids. — The two spermatids which 

 arise as a result of the second spermatocytic division are elongated 

 cells with a rather small nucleus whose chromatin is in the form of 

 granules. In the telophase of the second maturation division, before 

 the nuclear membrane is complete, the chromosomes are more or less 

 condensed and surrounded by the remains of the spindle fibres of the 

 last spermatocytic division (fig. 54); this spindle fibre material per- 

 sists and is later traced to the nebenkern. The nucleus assumes an 

 eccentric position so that it lies very near the wall of the cyst, and as 

 the nuclear membrane is formed, the chromatin becomes more scattered 

 throughout the nucleus and the material of the spindle fibre, which 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



at first was irregularly arranged, Is now collected into a spherical 

 mass at the proximal pole of the nucleus to form the beginning of the 

 nebenkern (fig. 56). The centrosomes in an archoplasmic mass still 

 retain their position at the distal pole of the nucleus, and from the more 

 distal one is seen to grow out a flagellum which corresponds to similar 

 structures to be described for both first and second spermatocytes and 

 interpreted as a precocious axial filament (figs. 55 and 56). As the 

 spermatid develops the centrosomes may be seen to migrate until 

 they assume their ultimate position at the posterior side of the 

 spermhead and the archoplasm or idiozome which surrounds the cen- 

 trosomes migrates with them (figs 57-59). After the centrosomes 

 have moved around to their final position at the proximal pole of the 

 nucleus, the idiozome is seen as a small body, clearer than the neben- 

 kern and lying beside it (fig. 60), and at this time, in the nucleus of 

 each spermatid, a round darkly staining body is to be seen (figs 56-61). 

 Since there is no evidence of an unequal division in either first or second 

 maturations and since this body is found in most of the spermatids 

 (its absence in some being explained by oblique cutting), there seems 

 no likelihood of its bearing any relation to the accessory chromosome 

 described by so many workers on insect spermatogenesis. I conclude 

 that it is a new formation, and that it is comparable to a similar body 

 described as " chromatin nucleolus" by Stevens (1906) for Coleoptera 

 and by Boring (1907) for Hemiptera. From the distal centrosome, 

 which now lies just beside the nucleus, the axial fibre continues to 

 grow; and as this grows through the center of the nebenkern and cell 

 cytoplasm both elongate, the former to form the inner, and the latter 

 the outer tail envelope. 



7. Centrosomes. — In the earlier "rest stages" of the spermatogonia 

 the centrosomes, which could be followed through every subsequent 

 step of development, were not visible; but the amount of cytoplasm 

 is so small and the cells so crowded that they might easily be over- 

 looked, and since they are to be seen in all spermatogonia divisions 

 of both the primary and secondary spermatogonia they may be assumed 

 to be present even though not seen except when the cells are actively 

 dividing. Just before the formation of the last spermatogonia! spireme 

 (figs. 4 and 5), when the chromatin is scattered through the nucleus 

 as separate granules, two minute centrosomes situated near the 

 nucleus are seen to divide and move toward opposite poles : the nuclear 

 membrane disappears and the mitotic figure is formed as usual (figs. 

 7 and 8). After the division of the chromosomes the centrosomes 

 divide and may be seen surrounded by a mass of archoplasm (fig. 10). 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



From this stage the centrosomes which have been followed through 

 every step of development show unfailing persistence and regularity 

 in movement, in form, and in division. This observation, like that 

 of Conklin (1902) for Crepidula and Paulmier for Anasa, supports the 

 view that the centrosome is entitled to the rank of a permanent cell 

 organ. 



In the succeeding growth stage the centrosomes surrounded by 

 faint astral rays are seen to separate ; then they divide : one pair moves 

 towards the nulcear membrane, the other pair lies upon the cell wall 

 (fig. 25). In preparations which have been somewhat deeply stained 

 cilia of considerable length are seen to have grown out from each 

 granule and extend into the lumen of the cyst (figs. 24, 25 and 29); 

 these correspond to the ciliated centrosomes figured by Sieves for 

 Pygcera (1897) and by Henneguy for Bombyx (1898), differing only 

 from those shown by Meves in the shapes of the centrosomes. which 

 in Pygcera are described as hooked or Y-shaped bodies. In C. pro- 

 methea these are plainly small dumbbell-shaped structures and are 

 exactly like the centrosomes described by most workers, differing 

 only in the possession of the flagellum. 



While the chromosomes are passing through the prophase of the 

 first maturation division, the paired centrosomes, enclosed by a small 

 centrosphere, move to opposite sides of the nucleus where they appear 

 as dumbbell-shaped bodies surrounded by a clear archoplasmic zone 

 and short radiating fibres (figs. 31 and 32). As the nuclear membrane 

 disintegrates, the astral figure increases in size, its fibres extending 

 outward into the cytoplasm and inward towards the middle of the 

 cell, and as division proceeds the astral raj^s increase in length until 

 they seem to press against the wall of the cell. I have never observed 

 a flagellum going from the centrosome at this stage, though such has 

 been figured and described by Henneguy. After completion of the 

 metaphase the centrosomes divide and appear in the telophase of the 

 first maturation division as two separate bodies, each surrounded by 

 an archoplasmic mass ; the centrosomes migrate to opposite sides 

 of the nucleus in an axis at right angles to the first maturation spindle. 

 Just at this time a flagellum is seen to grow out of one of the centro- 

 somes (fig. 48), this flagellum, though somewhat longer, is similar 

 to those described for the first spermatocytes. 



One other structure in the cytoplasm which is of interest is the 

 "chromatin granule" first seen during the growth period (fig. 25). 

 These granules, either single or dividing, stain like chromatin, are sur- 

 rounded by a clear zone, and are traceable through succeeding stages'; 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



that they may have some functional significance seems probable and 

 this will be discussed under the development of the spermatid. 



Telea polyphemus. 



Telea polyphemus, which belongs to the sub-family Saturinae, is 

 found in its larval stage feeding upon oak and other shade trees. After 

 the cocoon is made, in part from the folded leaves of its food plant, 

 it falls to the ground. Material was collected from about Bellefonte, 

 Pa., and from Newark, N. J., through the kindness of Mr. Herman H. 

 Brehme. Development in T. polyphemus is somewhat more rapid 

 than in promethea, and shows a greater dependence upon temperature 

 conditions. 



Spermatogonia which are found in the periphery of the testes show 

 always an eccentrically placed mass formed by a plasmosome in which 

 is embedded a number of darkly staining granules (fig. 62). The 

 last spermatogonial division is preceded by the formation of a thick 

 spireme wmich segments into a large number of chromosomes, probably 

 sixty, though the number is so great and the chromosomes so massed 

 that it is impossible to be sure that this count is correct (Pi. XXIV, fig. 

 66) . A side view of the spindle shows the dumbbell-shaped chromosomes 

 arranged upon the spindle fibres (fig. 67) ; these divide "symmetric ally 

 and are seen in telophase as feathery chromosomes arranged upon 

 linin threads (fig. 69). It is possible that a synapsis takes place at 

 this time, but, owing to the large number of chromosomes, I have been 

 unable to observe it. The chromatin now forms a long slender spireme 

 which in both smears and sections is seen to be made up of granules 

 (fig. 70). This spireme gradually becomes looped (fig. 71) until 

 concentration is complete and all the chromatin lies in a darkly stained 

 mass against one side of the nucleus (fig. 73); the chromatin then 

 passes out of this contraction stage by a loosening of the loops (figs. 

 74 and 75), which stretch out into the nucleus and in late post-synapsis 

 completely fill it (fig. 76). The spireme is made up of a number of 

 threads which seem to be composed of single granules, though the 

 linin threads are double, and in a few cases (smear preparations) 

 there was some evidence in these granules of a longitudinal split. At 

 this stage (fig. 75) a large deeply staining body appears for the first 

 time and becomes more pronounced as the basi-chromatin loses its 

 staining reactions, and throughout the growth stage of the sperma- 

 tocyte this body retains its staining reaction and may be seen either 

 as a single or dumbbell-shaped structure. The chromatin now resumes 

 its staining property and the chromosomes appear as broken segments 

 of the spireme usually bent or twisted at their center; then these 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



segments begin to condense and a longitudinal split is seen in them 

 (fig. 81). Though the number of segments at this time could not be 

 counted, yet it was plainly the reduced number, and this reduction 

 must have taken place during the last few stages when, because of 

 the deeper staining and greater massing of the chromatin, it was 

 impossible to follow the steps by which this pseudo-reduction occurred. 

 The ring chromosomes of the prophase are seen to be formed by the 

 coming together of the split ends and the gradual condensation of the 

 chromatin mass: this concentration is complete in sections, and 

 dumbbell-shaped chromosomes and occasionally tetrads are formed, 

 which are connected by linin threads (figs. 83-85). At this stage of 

 prophase, when growth has reached its greatest extent, the cell is 

 several times as large as in the beginning of the growth period, and the 

 nucleus, which has increased in size with the cell, is usually eccentrically 

 placed. At this time chromatin granules similar to those described 

 for C. promethea are found in the cell cytoplasm and are traceable 

 throughout all succeeding steps. 



A metaphase of the first maturation division shows thirty chromo- 

 somes (fig. 87) which are symmetrically placed; their division is equal 

 and reducing. The chromosomes of the first polar plate are too con- 

 densed to count and quickly pass through the prophase of the sec< nd 

 maturation. The centrosomes move so that the second division is a1 

 right angles to the first and the chromosomes quickly arrange then - 

 selves for the second division, in which, as in the first, there is an equal 

 division of the chromatin: an equatorial plate of the second spindle 

 shows thirty chromosomes, smaller than in the first and always single 

 (fig. 92). The distinct zwischenkorper and a number of the chromatin 

 granules mentioned above are seen during telophase both in the 

 cytoplasm and upon the mantle fibres (Pi. XXV, fig. 98). The 

 development of the spermatid shows no new features, but corresponds 

 very closely to that described for C. promethea. 



Centrosomes are seen throughout all stages: in the resting sper- 

 matocyte they appear as small paired structures closely pressed to 

 the cell membrane and with the short flagella? extending into the 

 lumen (fig. 79); as development proceeds these centrosomes move 

 nearer to the nucleus and migrate to opposite sides of the cell in prepara- 

 tion for the first division, and in late prophase and anaphase stages 

 they appear as dumbbells and are so conspicuous by their size and 

 prominence that they might almost be taken for very small chromo- 

 somes. Astral rays are well developed and, so far as could be deter- 

 mined, these grow out directly from the centrosomes. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Automeris io. 



This species was found abundantly about Lansdowne, Pa., feeding 

 upon maple trees and rose bushes. The larvae pupated in September 

 and showed comparatively rapid development. The paired testes of Io 

 resemble those of other members of the Saturnids in position and color, 

 but differ in shape; instead of the kidney-shaped body, such as has 

 been described for C. promethea and /. polyphemus, each of the four 

 lobes of which it is composed is rounded and distinct, and the testes 

 become elongate by the two lateral lobes meeting in the centre and 

 the two distal ones being pushed longitudinally. As in the other 

 forms each testis has but a single vas deferens. 



Secondary spermatogonia are comparatively large cells with few 

 scattered chromatin granule- and a rather large plasmosome which 

 stains like chromatin and shows a loose structure (figs. 98 and 99), 

 and from which, as a center, short chromatin threads are seen to radiate, 

 suggesting the karyosphere described by Blackmail (1905 b) for 

 Scolopendra. Figs. 100, 101, and 102 show three stages in the last 

 spermatogonial divisions : controsomes are present with aster and spin- 

 dle fibres well developed, division is equal, and in telophase the massing 

 of the chromosomes is complete. The spermatogonial plates were 

 so condensed that all attempts to determine the number of the 

 chromosomes were unsuccessful. 



In going into the contraction stage the chromatin becomes looped 

 on the side of the nucleus, which lies toward the greater amount of 

 cytoplasm (figs. 103 and 104); then the loops begin to loosen, and in 

 early post-synapsis is seen for the first time a round darkly staining 

 body (fig. 106) which at this stage is quite small, but, as the skein 

 gradually loosens and the loops extend more and more into the nucleus, 

 this body, the idiochromosome, becomes more marked, and during 

 the growth period it is seen either as one or two round dark-staining 

 bodies. During this stage the centrosomes lie very near the inner 

 cell wall and from them flagellar grow out into the lumen of the cyst. 

 Fig. 109 shows a cell in the early rest stage; here the centrosomes are 

 single and the nagellum which grows from each is quite short. Fig. 

 110 shows a similar stage where the cell has grown to about twice the 

 size of that in fig. 109; in this, the centrosomes have divided and the 

 nagellum which grows from each centrosome is relatively long. 



In preparation for prophase it may be seen that the spireme has 

 broken into segments which are of various shapes and, in most cases, 

 so bent at the center as to suggest their formation by the union of 

 two chromosomes (fig. 111). These now split and join end to end to 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



form the bipartite and quadripartite chromosomes of the prophase 

 (figs. 114, 115 and 117), which in io show a far greater variety of form 

 than in any of the other species described. In the very beginning 

 of the prophase, when the chromosomes are forming from the split 

 section of the spireme, the idiochromosome so compact and darkly 

 staining throughout the growth period, may be seen to be composed 

 of two parts, a paler-staining plasmosome and beside and upon this a 

 chromatin mass : later the plasmosome fades and this peculiarly formed 

 chromosome is no longer distinguishable from the others. A sperma- 

 tocyte equatorial plate shows thirty-one chromosomes, and the meta- 

 phase and anaphase of the first maturation shows that this division 

 is equal and reducing (figs. 119 and 120). The second division is also 

 equal and separates whole chromosomes along the longitudinal axis. 



Throughout almost every step the centrosome can be traced as a 

 dark granule surrounded by an archoplasmic mass. As prophase 

 advances, astral rays are seen about the centrosomes, which at this 

 time have divided and appear as dumbbells, and from them astral 

 fibres radiate in all directions, becoming especially well developed 

 on the side toward the nucleus. Of equally marked development are 

 the spindle fibres, which in the telophase of the second division maj be 

 traced directly to the nebenkern of the spermatid, while a clear ves- 

 icle, the idiozome, lying on one side of the nucleus of the spermatid, 

 can also be traced to the archoplasmic mass surrounding the centro- 

 some of former stages. 



The cells, which after the second division are irregularly placed, 

 are now arranged with their nuclei against the wall of the cyst so that 

 the entire wall is covered with the heads of the spermatozoa, while the 

 tails project into the lumen (Pi. XXVI, figs. 13-1 and 132). During the 

 development of the spermatozoon marked changes occur in the nucleus : 

 the chromatin becomes granular and scattered and the nucleus de- 

 creases in size and frequently bends through an angle of 90° to 180°; 

 later, when the condensation of the nucleus becomes more marked and 

 the tail elongates, the cells again change their position, coming to lie 

 with their heads crowded together and their tails parallel (figs. 133, 

 134 and 135). 



Samia cecropia. 



This species was found abundantly on maples and many bushes 

 about Philadelphia. Development is very similar to that of the 

 other forms described. The resting spermatogonia show one or two 

 net knots ; these are more compact than those of other species and,, 

 unlike them, are surrounded by a clear area. Figs. 140-142 show 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 313 



stages of the last spermatogonial division; here the chromosomes in 

 metaphase are too crowded to count. A thin skein is formed prepara- 

 tory to synapsis (fig. 143) and by condensation of this the chromatin 

 becomes collected at one side of the nucleus (fig. 144); later it spreads 

 through the nucleus and gradually fills it (figs. 145 and 146). In the 

 growth stage which follows we find the same large, deeply-staining 

 body described for the other species. The centrosomes which have 

 been followed since the last division of the spermatogonia are seen 

 at this time as two small dark bodies near the nuclear membrane 

 (fig. 147); these may be clearly seen to pass through the regular 

 cycle of changes, a cycle which is repeated in each maturation division, 

 and which in many respects may be parallel with the changes which 

 take place during division of the nucleus. In S. cecropia, as in all 

 the other species here studied, the centrosomes seem to be continuous 

 from generation to generation as is the nucleus itself. The chromo- 

 somes, in smear perparations, retain their outlines during the growth 

 stage (fig. 148); in this the nucleus has been separated from the cyto- 

 plasm and much stretched in drying. Corresponding almost exactly 

 with similar stages in C. promethea, we have the gradual condensation 

 into rings and dumbbells, while the idiochromosome, which retains 

 its continuity longest, finally assumes the same form as the others and 

 is indistinguishable from them. Division in first and second matura- 

 tions closely follows that of the other Saturnids, and the remnants of 

 the spindle fibers which surround the chromosomes of the last division 

 and extend far into the cell cytoplasm may be seen to go directly into 

 the spermatid and there form the nebenkern. The spermatozoon has 

 here been traced to its complete development. The earlier stages 

 correspond to those described for other members of the family, but 

 as development proceeds (PL XXVII, figs. 167-170), the decrease in size 

 of the nucleus and elongation of the tail seem to be connected with the 

 extension of the head piece, which at this time appears as a cytoplasmic 

 projection containing a darker body and only differing from the rest 

 of the cytoplasm in its greater clearness. While the chromatin has 

 been condensed into a small round mass which completely fills the 

 nucleus, the head piece has increased in length and has become pointed 

 and shield shaped, and the axial filament has grown very long. The 

 final stage of development shows a pointed head piece with its acro- 

 blast, a long narrow nucleus, a very slightly developed middle piece, 

 and an exceedingly long tail which, due to a twisting of the inner and 

 outer membranes about the axial filament, has the appearance of a 

 spiral. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Acronycta bp. 



A small cocoon found upon a Cecropia cocoon was identified b} r 

 Prof. John B. Smith of Rutger's College as an Acronycta, possibly 

 oblinita. By comparison with oblinita it was found that this was not 

 the species, but because of certain unusual structures in the cytoplasm 

 of both spermatocytes and spermatids it seemed of sufficient interest 

 to be included in the present study. This material was fixed with 

 the same care and by the same methods as were used for other forms 

 so that the si ructures here described cannot be the result of bad preser- 

 vation. 



The testes which in all the Saturnids remain paired are fused in 

 this form along the midline, suggesting a similar condition mentioned 

 for butterflies. In the rest stage of the first spermatocyte the nucleus 

 shows the usual deeply-staining nucleolus and a fine linin meshwork, 

 while in the cell cytoplasm beside the centrosomes a darkly-stained 

 body appcais (figs. 171 and 172); except for its greater size, this body 

 appears and behaves like the "chromatin granule-" described for the 

 family of Saturnids, and like them may be seen to divide and migrate 

 to opposite pole-; of the cell (figs. 17S and 170). In addition to this 

 an irregular mass is often found which in form and staining reaction 

 resembles chromatin and looks as though it had been thrown out of 

 the nucleus; though this suggests the Mitochondria of Benda (1899) 

 and similar bodies described by Meves (1902) and Schreiner (1906) 

 and is traceable in many cells throughout all stages, yet it was not 

 ^■eQM to take any part in cell development. In the cytoplasm in all 

 stages of prophage (figs. 173 and 174) both "chromatin granule" and 

 .Mitochondria are to lie seen: the former as divided and beginning to 

 migrate; the latter as an inert mass. In the first maturation division 

 (fig. 177) a partial division of the Mitochondria is seen, while figs. 

 176, 178 and 179 show various stages in the equal division of the 

 chromosomes and of the "chromatin granule." < )ne thing which is 

 very noticeable here in contrast to all other forms is the position of 

 the spindles which lie to one side of the cell, while the chromatin 

 granule and Mitochondria occupy the other side; an exception to this 

 is seen in fig. 176, where one of the "chromatin granules" is placed 

 upon the spindle. A metaphase of the second maturation division 

 shows, in addition to a chromatin granule and a Mitochondria twenty- 

 nine chromosomes. By an apparently equal division of the chromatin 

 granules each spermatid receives not only a nucleus and a nebenkern 

 from the mother cell, but also a "chromatin granule" surrounded by a 

 clear zone; this granule at first lies beside the nucleus of the spermatid, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



bm soon moves toward the head, where it takes its final position and 

 appears to be transformed into the acrosome. 



Spermatids and Spermatozoa. 



The metamorphosis of the spermatid of each species here studied 

 has in most of its parts been considered in the preceding text; thus, 

 as has been pointed out, the sperm head is made up of the modified 

 nucleus of the second spermatocyte plus the head shield, while what 

 in many animals would correspond to the middle piece is in Lepi- 

 doptera only the region occupied by the two centrosomes. The 

 nebenkern which seems to be common to all insects refers, when used 

 in its original sense (Butschli, 1871), to that body in the spermatid 

 which i-> formed at least in part by the spindle fibres of the second 

 maturation division and which later gives rise to the inner tail mem- 

 brane. Many workers on insects, among whom may be mentioned 

 La Valette St. George, Platner, Erlanger, Henking, Wilcox (1896), 

 and Paulmier, trace its origin at least in part to the remnants of the 

 spindle, though Paulmier attributed only a small part to the spindle 

 fibres, believing that the nebenkern in Anasa is formed largely from 

 the yolk mass. Meves (1901), on the other hand, claims that this 

 body i- built up independently of the spindle fibres out of granules 

 which were present in earlier generations, and which are identical 

 with the yolk granules of Paulmier, the Cytomitosomen of La Valette 

 St. George, and the Mitochondria of Benda. No trace of yolk granules 

 were found in the Saturnids and the dark-staining accessory masses 

 figured for Acronycta were found to take no part in the formation of 

 the nebenkern; but, in both smear preparations and sections, the 

 nebenkern material for all the species studied was clearly traceable 

 to the spindle fibres of the second spermatocyte division. 



The problematical parts which remain to lie discussed are the 

 subsequent history of the chromatin granule and the origin of the 

 head piece and axial filament. Many writers describe the head piece 

 or acrosome as arising from the idiozome which migrates to the 

 anterior pole of the cell. The Schreiners (1908) have shown that the 

 head piece of Myxine is made up of two separate Anlagen, the primary 

 and secondary head vesicles, which are only joined in the beginning of 

 sperm ripening: the primary head vesicle formed from the sphere 

 takes its place after the second division, while the secondary head 

 vesicle remains in tlie opposite part of the cell near the centrosome 

 and only reaches its final position during the beginning of sperm 

 ripening. A third view is that of Lenhossek (ISO!)), who derives the 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



acrosome from the cytoplasm. The acrosome in Lepidoptera is 

 formed from two parts — a clearer vesicle and a dark granule, but the 

 idiozome which migrates from the acrosomal region in early develop- 

 ment has not been seen to return, nor has it been possible to trace 

 the sphere material to this region ; it therefore seems most probable 

 that the acrosome in Lepidoptera has been formed from modified cyto- 

 plasm. The chromatin granule noted throughout preceding pages and 

 described as a small granule staining in iron hematoxylin and sur- 

 rounded by a clear zone, is seen in very young spermatids to lie quite 

 near the nucleus and in a position corresponding to the idiozome; in 

 Acronycta this granule moves nearer the head of the nucleus, and a 

 similar granulejs later found within the head piece; the same relation 

 is suggested in the Saturnids. The presence of this body recalls the 

 "chromatin body" described by Lenhossek (1898) as an extruded 

 nucleus of unknown origin which degenerates without taking any part 

 in the formation of the spermatozoon, as well as a similar body shown 

 by the Schreiners (1908) to be present in Myxine. King (1907) finds 

 such a body in Amphibia, traces it from the primary spermatogonia to 

 the acrosome of the spermatozoon, and because of its function names 

 it "acroblast." The extrusion of the chromatin granules from the 

 nucleus during the growth stage like that described for Myxine has 

 here been observed, but although it persists and is traceable through 

 the spermatid, yet further research is required to determine whether 

 this chromatin granule of Lepidoptera is really functional or whether 

 like similar granules described by other workers it plays no part in 

 the development of the sperm. 



The origin of the axial filament from one of the centrosomes of the 

 middle piece was first demonstrated by Moore (1895) for Elasmo- 

 branchs. Paulmier described a similar origin for Anasa and gave 

 proof for this by the discovery of the occurrence in giant spermatids 

 of two and four axial filaments. That the axial filament actually 

 arises from the centrosomal substance, or is formed like astral rays 

 and spindle fibres by a differentiation of the cytoplasm, are the two 

 views most widely held. Meves (1897) in his work on Pygcera accepts 

 the latter view, believing that "die Faden der Schmetterlingsper- 

 matocyten extracellular gewordene Mitomfaden darstellen." The 

 same writer concludes for Lithobius "dass die bei Lithobius beobach- 

 teten Faden sind aus dem einen der beiden Centralkorper durch 

 Langenwachstum desselben, hervorgegangen," and Korff (1899) on 

 Helix and Suzuki (1898) on Elasmobranchs show that the inner 

 centrosome elongates and so support the first view of Meves that this 




ni "7 



1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. oLi 



^contractile element may be derived directly from the centrosomal 

 substance. The precocious attempt of the centrosome in the first 

 and second spermatocytes to form a flagellum as has been described 

 by Meves, Henneguy, and in the present work for three species of 

 Saturnids, and D. archippus (fig. 191) and P. cresphontes (fig. 192) 

 lends weight to the view that at least in Lepidoptera the out-growth 

 of the axial filament from the centrosome is comparable to the forma- 

 tion of spindle fibres and astral rays. This suggests a possible rela- 

 tionship with other ciliate cells of both plants and animals, and in 

 comparing the vibratile cilia of Lepidoptera with those of plants one 

 is struck with the analogies which exist: the dark-staining granule 

 at the base of the cilium is similar both in appearance and position 

 to the centrosome of the spermatocytes, while the axial filaments in 

 both cases are similar in appearance, vibratile nature, and the part 

 they play in fecundation. Such centrosomes have been figured and 

 described by Webber (1897) for Zamia and by Ikeno (1894) for Cycas 

 and Ginkgo, though the two authors differ in their interpretations; 

 Webber believing that these are only " centrosome-like," while Ikeno 

 does not hesitate to consider them as true centrosomes similar to 

 those of animal spermatozoa. Ishikawa's (1899) observations that 

 the flagellum of Noctiluca grows out from the centrosomal end of the 

 cell, its substance apparently arising from the central spindle, 

 strengthens this view, while Belajeff's (1897) comparison of the 

 spermatogenesis of Characese, Filicineae, and Equisetaceae with such 

 animal forms as the Salamander shows a close relationship between the 

 cilia of spermatozoids and the axial filament of spermatozoa. 



IV. Theoretical Considerations. 



As long ago as 1885 Rabl concluded that each chromosome is a 

 persisting individual and not a structure formed anew in each genera- 

 tion. Van Beneden (1883) advanced the theory of individuality of 

 the chromosomes by pointing out that there is a constant number of 

 chromosomes for each species, always half this number in each matura- 

 tion division and that the number is restored by fertilization. This 

 does not mean that the chromosomes remain unchanged, but that a 

 chromosome of any generation is the descendant of a particular 

 chromosome of a preceding generation. This view was strongly 

 supported by Sutton (1903) who, basing his theory on his own cyto- 

 logical work as well as upon Boveri's (1902) experimental work on 

 the sea urchin egg, concluded that the chromosomes must be the seat 

 of particular qualities, and showed, as Montgomery (1901) had done, 




318 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



that synapsis is brought about by the conjugation of maternal and 

 paternal chromosomes of the same size. This led to the view that 

 homologous chromosomes represent homologous characters and only 

 by the definite association of chromosomes of certain characters can 

 Sutton's theory of the purity of the germ cells be maintained. 



Individuality is further extended by establishing a definite number 

 of chromosomes for each species. The number of chromosomes 

 found in the equatorial plate- of the family Saturnids ranges from 

 thirteen in P. cynthia to thirty-one in A. i<>. and there is no evidence, 

 that P. cynthia is more highly developed than other members of the 

 family. This is in accord with the view of Montgomery (1906), who 

 after tabulating the number of chromosomes in several hundred species 

 of plants and animals, was forced to give up his theory of a correlation 

 between the number of "chromosomes and the evolutionary stage of 

 .the species. McClung (1005) claims that the family AcrididaB is 

 characterized by a fixed number of chromosomes which i- constant 

 for all the genera and species: the genera are characterized by a 

 definite arrangement and association, while the species show the same 

 grouping as the genus but are distinguished by the size difference of 

 the chromosomes and spindles. He consider- that a definite series 

 of chromosome- accompanies a group of somatic characters used by 

 systematic for classification. That the chromosomes may be of 

 classificatory significance has already been mentioned for cynthia 

 and promethea, where the external difference of the pupa was often 

 so slight that only by reference to the number of chromosomes could 

 the species be definitely determined; this was, however, by the marked 

 difference in number, not in arrangement. 



If this individuality is to be maintained, maturation mitoses must 

 show one transverse and one longitudinal division, and while the end 

 result is the same, whether the first division is transverse or longitu- 

 dinal, yet it seems probable, as Montgomery (1003) points out, that 

 the first division will be found in all cases of heterotypic division to 

 be reducing. By a comparison of the forms here described with 

 P. cynthia, where twenty-six pairs of granules can be counted in the 

 spermatogonia and thirteen in the first spermatocyte, I conclude that 

 pseudo-reduction takes place in the family Saturnidae either during 

 the telophase of the last spermatogone division or during synizesis 

 by an end-to-end union of homologous chromosomes, and that the 

 angle in the middle of the rods (fig. 22) and the constriction in the 

 rings (fig. 26) and dumbbells marks this point of union of univalent 

 chromosomes, as well as the point of separation of the first division. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



The longitudinal split of the postsynaptic stages which corresponds 

 to a similar split in the spermatogonia and remains open and traceable 

 until the chromosomes are upon the spindle might be assumed to be a 

 side-by-side union considered by A. and K. Schreiner (1904) to be 

 "the" method of conjugation, and as such I at first interpreted it; 

 but by a careful study of the steps in the formation of the chromosomes 

 from the segmentation of the spireme to the prophase, viz., the opening 

 of the chromatin segments into rings and their linin connection, it 

 becomes clear that the Weismannian method of reduction could only 

 be brought about if conjugation had taken place by an end-to-end 

 union, as first interpreted by Montgomery (1900), for only in this 

 way would there be one transverse and one longitudinal division, so 

 separating univalent chromosomes. A conjugation by parasynapsis 

 would result in two reduction divisions and the individuality of the 

 chromosomes would be destroyed. I am led to conclude that this 

 longitudinal split is a precocious division early laid down to mark the 

 plane of the second maturation division. 



The accessory chromosome first described by Henking (1891) for 

 Pyrrochoris apterus and later by McClung (1899), Sutton (1902), and 

 Baumgartner (1904) for Orthoptera, Blackmail for Myriopoda, Wal- 

 lace (1900) for Arachnida, Paulmier (1899), Montgomery (1898, 1901, 

 1906), Wilson, Stevens, etc., for Hemiptera, Stevens and Nowlin (1906) 

 for Coleoptera, and Lefevere and McGill (1908) for Odonata. has by 

 its peculiar behavior gone far toward establishing the theory of individ- 

 uality of the chromosomes. McClung was the first to suggest that 

 the accessory chromosome might be a sex determinant, believing 

 that this chromosome was peculiar to the sperm; but Stevens and 

 Wilson, while corroborating this suggestion of sex determination, 

 showed by a comparison of the equatorial plate of somatic cells and 

 germ cells of both sexes that it is the female and not the male that 

 possesses this additional chromosome. 



In his arrangement of the Heteroptera into three groups according 

 to the three types of spermatozoa, Wilson has brought all cases into 

 harmony with the dimorphism theory and has given direct evidence 

 of the conjugation of maternal and paternal chromosomes. The first 

 class is one in which there is a single heterotropic chromosome resulting 

 in two classes of spermatozoa of which one-half possesses, one-half 

 lacks this element ; in the second class the male has the same number 

 of chromosomes as the female but possesses one large and one small 

 idiochromosome while the female possesses two large chromosomes ; 

 and in the third class the idiochromosomes are equal in size in both 

 21 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



sexes, though because of certain peculiarities of behavior the equal 

 pair of idiochromosomes may be considered as representing different 

 characters, so that the dimorphism, though masked, may nevertheless 

 be considered present in this class also. 



The question arises, can the species of Lepidoptera here studied be 

 brought into relation with the theory of dimorphisni and individuality 

 of the chromosomes? 



A careful examination of the chromatin element in the species here 

 described shows, as has already been pointed out, that one chromatin 

 element acts differently from the others during a certain period in 

 the development of the germ cells. It Is distinguished from all other 

 cell structures by its staining reaction, its precocious division, and its 

 close association with a plasmosome; while later it shows likeness to 

 the other chromosomes in form, valence and division; such behavior 

 makes it necessary to interpret this, as other workers have done, as 

 an equal pair of idiochromosomes representing different characters 

 from those of the other chromosomes and expressing by their peculiar 

 behavior a masked dimorphism. 



The present study of Lepidoptera offers no such support to the 

 theory of the individuality of the chromosomes as Sutton found in 

 Brachystola and other workers have found in Hemiptera, yet the 

 following facts are evidence in favor of this theory; (a) that the 

 number of chromosomes remain the same from generation to genera- 

 tion, (6) that they are seen in maturation divisions to be formed of 

 pairs of equal size, (c) that in smear preparations the boundaries can 

 be traced and the chromosomes never entirely lose their continuity 

 during the growth stage, and (d) that at least one of the chromatin 

 elements shows marked peculiarity in its behavior, and can therefore 

 be traced throughout the growth period. These facts show that 

 Lepidoptera like the other insect orders may be brought into harmony 

 with recent cytological work. 



V. Summary. 



1. The spermatogonia contain an equal number of chromosomes 

 of about the same size and shape, and in the family of Saturnids a 

 net knot of chromatin granules is always found during the resting 

 stage. 



2. During the growth period of the spermatocyte a dense body is 

 found which is either single or dumbbell shape, is eccentrically placed, 

 and stains like basi-chromatin ; in T. polyphemus and A. io it first 

 appears in the early post-synapsis stage, though in other species it is 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



not distinguishable until the chromatin loses its staining properties. 



Later this body shows a clearer plasmosome part with the chromatin 

 in a band or in scattered granules, and from this chromatin a chromo- 

 some is formed which has the same valence as the other chromosomes 

 and is indistinguishable from them. Because of its behavior this 

 structure is comparable to similar bodies described by Wilson and 

 may be considered as an equal pair of idiochromosomes. 



3. The spireme segments into the reduced number of chromosomes 

 and by condensation the rings become the dyads and tetrads of the 

 first maturation division. By the Foot-Strobell (1907) method of 

 smear preparations, the longitudinal split could be seen in both post- 

 synapsis spiremes and early prophase and its relation traced to tetrad 

 formation and succeeding maturations. The first maturation division 

 is reducing separating univalent chromosomes, while the second is 

 longitudinal and equational. 



4. The same number of chromosomes is found in the equatorial 

 plate of both first and second spermatocytes and by equal divisions 

 the spermatids each receive similar chromosome groups, so that there 

 is no visible dimorphism of the spermatozoa. 



5. Centrosomes were traced from the secondary spermatogonia 

 throughout the whole development of the germ cells. Aster rays 

 and spindle fibres are well developed and the difference between these 

 is especially well shown in mitotic figures in .4. io. 



6. A chromatin granule enclosed by a clearer area is first found in 

 the cytoplasm of the growth stage. This has been described for all 

 forms and in addition an accessory chromatin-like mass has been 

 figured for Acronycta; whether the chromatin granule really functions 

 as the acroblast of King cannot be determined without further research. 

 The accessory mass is present in only part of the cells and is seen to 

 degenerate. 



7. A precocious attempt of the centrosomes to form a flagellum is 

 seen in three of the species of moths studied and in two butterflies. 

 In Promethea this flagellum has been traced from the early growth 

 stage of the first siDermatocyte through prophase, second spermato- 

 cyte, and early spermatid into developed spermatozoa, while it has 

 also been described and figured for the growth stage of A. io, T. poly- 

 pliemus, P. crcsphontes, and D. archippus. This adds additional 

 weight to the view that the axial filament grows out from the centro- 

 some and suggests that its origin is similar to that of astral rays and 

 spindle fibre*. 






322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



VI. Literature. 



Baumgartner, W. J. 1904. Some New Evidence for the Individuality of 



the Chromosomes. Biol. Bull., VIII. 

 Belajeff. W. 1897. Ueber die Aelmlichkeit einiger Erscheinungen in der 



Spermatogenese bei Thieren und Pflanzen. Ber. Deutschen Bot. Ges., XV, 



342. 

 Benda, C. 1S99. Weitere Mittheilungen fiber die Mitochondria. Verb. d. 



phys. Ges. zu Berlin. 

 Van Bexedex. E. 1883. Recherehes sur la maturation de l'oeuf, la fecondation 



et la division cellulaire. Arch, de Biol., 4. 

 Blackmax, M. W. 1905. (a) Spermatogenesis of Myriopods: III. Sper- 



matogenesis of Scolopendra heros. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harvard, 



XLVIII. 

 1905. (b) Spermatogenesis of Myriopods: IV. On the Karyosphere and 



Nucleolus in the Spermatocyte of Scolopendra subspinipes. Proc. Amer. 



Acad. Arts and Science, XLI. 

 Boring, A. M. 1907. A Study of the Spermatogenesis of Twenty-two Species 



of the Membracidse, Jassidse, Cercopidse and Fulgorida?. Jour. Exper. 



Zool.. Vol. IV, No. 1. 

 1 Boveri, T. 1902. Ueber Mehrpolige Mitosen als Mittel zur Analyse des 



Zellkem*. Verh. d. Phy. .Med. Ges. zu Wiirzburg, N. F., Bd. XXXV. 

 Buetschli, O. 1871. Vorlaufige Mitteilung iiber Bau und Entwickelung der 



Samenfaden bei Insecten und Crustaceen. Zeitsch. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. 21, 



Vol. 4. 

 Cakxoy. J. B. 18S4. Cytodierese des Arthropodes. La Cellule, I. 

 Cholodkovsky. 1894. Zur Frage iiber die Anfangstadien der Spermato- 

 genese be.' den Insekten. Zool. Anz., V, 17. 

 Conklin, E. (r. 1902. Karyokinesis and Cytokinesis. Jour. Acad. Nat. 



Sei. Phila., S< c. Sev., XII. 

 Dederer. P. H. 1907. Spermatogenesis in Philosamia cynthia. Biol. Bull 



XIII, 2. 

 Erlaxger. 1896. Ueber den sogenannten Nebenkern in den mannlichen 



Geschlechtszellen der Insekten. Zool. Anz., XIX. 

 Foot, K. and E. C. Strobell, 1905. Prophase and Metaphase of the First 



Maturation Spindle of Allolobophora fcetida. Amer. Jour. Anat., IV. 

 Hexkixg, H. 1891. Teller Spermatogenese und deren Beziehung zur Ent- 

 wickelung bei Pyrrhocoris apterus. Zeit. wiss. Zool., 51. 

 Hexxeguy. L. I". 1898. Surles rapports des cils vibratiees avec les centrosome. 



Arch. Anat. Mik., I. 

 Ikexo, S. 1898. Untersuchungen fiber die Entwickelung der Geschechts- 



organe, etc., bei Cycas. Jahr. wiss. Bot., XXXII, 4. 

 Lshikawa, M. 1899. Further Observations on the Nuclear Division of Noc- 



tiluca. Jour. Coll. Sci. Tokyo, X, 2. 

 King, H. D. 1907. The Spermatogenesis of Bufo lentigenosus. Amer. 



Jour. Anat.. VII, 3. 

 Korff, 1S99. Zur Histogenese der Spermien von Helix. Arch. m. Anat., 



LIV. 

 Lefevre. G.. and McGill, C. 1908. The Chromosomes of Anasa tristis and 



Anax Junius. 

 v. Lexhossek, M. 1898. Untersuchungen iiber Spermatogenesis. Arch. m. 



Anat., LI. 

 McCluxg. C. E. 1S99. A Peculiar Nuclear Element in Male Reproductive 



Cells of Insects. Zool. Bull.. II. 



1900. Comparative Study of Hippiscus with Other Orthoptera. Sci. Bull. 

 Kans. Univ., IX. 



1901. Xotes on Accessory Chromosomes. Anat. Anz., XX. 



1902. (a) Spermatocvte Development of Locustidae — Kans. Univ. Bull., 

 IX. 



1 I did not have access to this paper. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



1902. (6) The Accessory Chromosome. Sex Determinant (?) Biol. Bull., III. 



1905. Chromosome Complexes of Orthoptera Spermatocytes. Biol. Bull., 

 IX, 5. 



Meves, F. 1897. Ueber Centralkorper in mannlichen Geschlechtszellen von 

 Schmetterlingen (Pieris brassicae, Mamestra brassicae, Pygasra bucephala, 

 Sphinx euphorbia?, Sphinx ligustri, Harpyia vinula). Anat. Anz., XIV, 1. 



Meves, F. 1901. Struktur mid Histogenese der Spermien. Ergr>bnisse 

 Anatomie, II. 



Moxtgo.mery, T. H. 1898. Spermatogenesis of Pentatoma, Zool. Jahrb., XII. 



1900. Spermatogenesis of Peripatus. Zool. Jahrb., XIV. 



1901. A Study of the Chromosomes of the Germ Cells of Metazoa. Trans. 

 Aincr. Phil. Soc, 20. 



1903. The Heterotypic Maturation Mitosis in Amphibia and its General 

 Significance. Biol. Bull.. 1903, Vol. 4. 



1904. Some Observations and Considerations upon the Maturation Phenom- 

 ena of the Germ Cells. Biol. Bull., 6. 



1906. Chromosomes in the Spermatogenesis of the Hemiptera Heteroptera. 

 Trans. Amer. Phil. Soe., X. S.. XXI. 



Moore, J. E. S. 1S95. On the Structural Changes in the Reproductive Cells 



during Spermatogenesis of Elasmobranchs. Quart. Jour., XXXVIII. 

 Muxsox, J. P. 1906. Spermatogenesis of the Butterflv, Papilio rutulus. 



Bos. Soe. Xat. Hist., 33. 

 Xowlix. W. X. 1906. A Study of the Spermatogenesis of Coptocycla auri- 



chalcea and Coptocyela guttata, with special reference to the Problems 



of Sex Determination. Jour. Exp. Zool., III. 

 Paulmier, 1S99. Spermatogenesis of Anasa Tristis. Jour. Morph., XV, 



Supplement. 

 Platner. G. 1886. Die Karyokinese bei den Lepidoptera als Grundlage 



fiir eine Theorie der Zelltheiluna;. Internat. Monatsch. f. Anat. Hist., III. 

 Rabl, C. 1885. Ueber Zelltheilung. Morph. Jahrb., X, 1885. 

 Vom Hath, O. 1892. Zur Kenntniss der Spermatogenese von Gryllotalpa 



vulgaris. Arch. mile. Anat., XL. 

 Schreixer, A. and K. E. 1904. Die Reifungsteilungen bei den Wirbeltieren. 



Anat, Anz., XXIV. 

 1906. Neue Studien iiber die Chromatinreifung der Geschlechtszellen. Archiv. 



de Biol., 22. 

 Stevens, X. M. 1905. Studies in Spermatogenesis: I— II. A Comparative 



Study of the Heterochromosomes in Certain Species of Coleoptera, Hemiptera 



and Lepidoptera. with especial reference to Sex Determination. Carnegie 



Inst. Publicat., Xo. 36, II. 

 Sutton, W. S. 1900. Spermat /gonal Divisions in Brachvstola magna. Kans. 



Univ. Quart,, IX. 



1902. Morphologv of the Chromosome Group in Brachvstola magna. Biol. 

 Bull., IV. 



1903. The Chromosomes in Heredity. Biol. Bull., IV. 



Suzuki, B. 189S. Xotiz iiber die Entstehung des Mittelstuckes von Sel- 



achiern. Anat. Anz., XV, 8. 

 Toyama, 93. Preliminarv note on Spermatogenesis of Bombvx Mori. Zool. 



Anz.. Xo. 43S. 

 V. La Valette St. Georoe. 1887. Spermatologische Beitrage. Arch. f. 



Mikr. Ana.., XXX. 

 1897. Zur Samen und Eibildung bei Seidenspinnen (Bombvx mori). Arch. 



fur Mikr. Anat., 50, p. 751. 

 Verson, E. 1889. Zur Spermatogenese. Zool. Anz., XII. 



1894. Zur Spermatogenese bei der Seidenraupe. Zeit. wiss. Zool., 58. 

 Wallace, L. B. 1900! The Accessory Chromosomes in the Spider. Anat. 



Anz., IS. 

 Webber, H. J. 1897. Peculiar Structures occurring in the Pollen-tube of 



Zamia. Bot. Gazette. XXXIII, 6 and XXXIV, 1. 

 Weismaxx. Essays on Heredity. II. 

 Wilcox, E. V. 1896. Further Studies on the Spermatogenesis of Caloptenus 



femurrubrum. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harvard, XXIX. 




32-t PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



Wilson, E. B. 1902. The Cell in Development and Inheritance. 



1905. (a) Studies on Chromosomes: I. The Behavior of the Idiochromosomes 

 in Hemiptera. Jour. Exp. Zool., II. 



1905. (b) Studies on Chromosomes: II. The Paired Microchromosomes, 

 Idiochromosomes and Heterotypic Chromosomes in Hemiptera. Jour. 

 Exper. Zool., II. 



1906. Studies on Chromosomes: III. Sexual Difference of Chromosomes 

 Group in Hemiptera. with some Consideration on Determination and 

 Inheritance of Sex. Jour. Exper. Zool., III. 



Description of Plates XXII-XXVII. 



All the figures, with the exception of the text figure, page 10, were drawn at 

 the level of the table with the aid of a camera lucida. A Zeiss microscope 

 was used with a Xo. 8 ocular and a l(i mm. oil immersion objective, giving a 

 magnification of 2,250 diameters. The plates have been reduced to about 

 one-third their original size. 



Plate XXII — Callosamia promethea — Figs. 1-4 — Sp< rmatogonial rest stag' s 



showing stages in the disappearance of the net knot. 

 ' Fig. 5 — Spermatogonia] spireme. 

 Fig. (i — Spermatogonia! equatorial plat-' showing 38 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 7 — Spermatogonia! metaphase. 

 Fig. s — Spermatogonia! anaphase. 

 Figs. 9 and 10 — Spermatogonia! telophase showing formation of nuclear 



membrane. 

 Fig. 11 — Formation of spireme preparatory to synizesis. Spermatocyte. 

 Fig. 12 — First spermatocyte, synizesis. 



Fig. 13 — First spermatocyte, synizesis (smear preparation). 

 Fig. 14 — First spermatocyte, chromatin in loops. 

 Figs. 15- is — Degenerating cells. 



Fig. 19 — First spermatocyte, early post, synapsis (smear preparation). 

 Figs. 20-21 — First spermatocyte, late post-synapsis (smear preparation). 

 Fig. 22^First spermatocyte, spireme divided into reduced number of 



chromosomes. 

 Figs. 23-26 — Fir<t spermatocyte, growth sta.se. 

 Fig. 26 — First spermatocyte, smear preparation showing continuity of the 



chromosomes. 

 Figs. 24, 25 and 29 — First spermatocyte, ciliated centrosomes. 

 Fig. 27 — First spermatocyte, split segments. 

 Figs. 32, 33 — First spermatocyte, ring formation. 

 Fig. 28 — First spermatocyte, condensation of rings. 

 Fig. 34 — First spermatocyte, formation of plasmosome. 

 Figs. 35-3S — First spermatocyte, stages in prophase of first maturation 



division. 

 Fig. 39 — First spermatocyte, smear preparation, late prophase showing 



plasmosome with chromatin band. 



Plate XXIII — Callosamia promethea — Fig. 40 — First spermatocyte, equatorial 



plate, 19 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 41 — First spermatocyte, polar plate, 19 chromsomes. 

 Fig. 42 — First spermatocyte, metaphase, lateral view. 

 Fig. 43 — First spermatocyte, anaphase. 

 Fig. 44 — First spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 45 — Second spermatocyte, polar \iew. 

 Fig. 46 — Second spermatocyte, prophase, chromatin scattered, chromatin 



granule present. 

 Fig. 47 — Second spermatocyte, prophase, rearrangement for second division, 



zwischenkorper marks cell axis. 

 Fig. 48 — Second spermatocyte, prophase, two chromatin granules present, 



ciliated centrosomes. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Fig. 49 — Second spermatocyte, Equatorial plate, 19 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 50 — Second spermatocyte, metaphase spindle. 

 Figs. 51 and 52 — Second spermatocyte, anaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 53 — Second spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 54 — Spermatid, first stage, chromatin granule present. 

 Fig. 55 — Spermatid, degenerating. 



Fig. 56 — Spermatid, first stage showing chromatin granule, ciliated cen- 

 trosome and chromatin nucleolus. 

 Figs. 57 and 58 — Spermatid, second stage. 

 Fig. 59 — Spermatid, formation of axial filament. 

 Figs. 60 and 61 — Spermatid, later stages. 



Plate XXIV — Telea polyphemus — Fig. 62 — Early spermatogonial stage, showing 

 net knot. 



Fig. 63 — Late spermatogonial stage. 



Figs. 64 and 65 — Spermatogonial spireme. 



Fig. 66 — Spermatogonial, equatorial plate, probably 60 chromosomes. 



Figs. 67 and 68 — Last spermatogonial, division. 



Fig. 69 — Spermatogonial telophase (oblique section). 



Fig. 70 — First spermatocyte, spireme preparatory to synizesis. 



Fig. 71 — First spermatocyte, beginning of synizesis. 



Fig. 72 — First spermatocyte, synizesis of smear preparation. 



Fig. 73 — First spermatocyte, synizesis. 



Fig. 74 — First spermatocyte, coming out of synizesis. 



Fig. 75 — First spermatocyte, early post-sjmapsis , showing plasmosome. 



I ig. 76 — First spermatocyte, late post-synapsis. 



Fig. 77 — First spermatocyte, fading of spireme. 



Fig. 78 — First spermatocyte, growth stages. 



Fig. 79 — First spermatocyte, ciliated centrosomes. 



Fig. 80 — First spermatocyte, segmented spireme, showing plasmosomes. 



Fig. 81 — First spermatocyte, segmented spireme, showing split. 



Figs. 82-85 — First spermatocyte, showing various stages in prophase. 



Fig. S6 — First spermatocyte, early metaphase. 



Fig. 87 — First spermatocyte, equatorial plate, 30 chromosomes. 



Fig. 88 — First spermatocyte, metaphase spindle, showing "chromosome 

 granule." 



Fig. 89 — First spermatocyte, anaphase. 



Figs. 90 and 91 — Second spermatocyte, rearrangement of chromosome for 

 second division. 



Fig. 92 — Second spermatocyte, equatorial plate, 30 chromosomes, "chro- 

 matin granules." 



Fig. 93 — Second spermatocyte, anaphase. 



Fig. 98 — Second spermatocyte, telophase, showing zwischenkorper and 

 chromatin granules. 



Fig. 94 — Spermatid, early stage. 



Fiu r . 95 — Spermatid, second stage. 



Figs. 96 and 97 — Spermatid, later stage, formation of axial filament. 



Fig. 191 — Ciliated centrosome (Danais archippus). 



Fig. 192 — Ciliated centrosome (Papilio cresphontes). 



Plate XXV — Automeris io — Fig. 98a — Early spermatogonial rest stage. 

 Fig. 99 — Later spermatogonial rest stage, showing curious net-knot. 

 Fig. 100 — Spermatogonial metaphase. 

 Fig. 101 — Spermatogonial anaphase. 

 Fig. 102 — Spermatogonial telophase. 

 Fig. 103 — First spermatocyte, going into synizesis. 

 Fig. 104 — First spermatocyte, later stage. 

 Fig. 105 — First spermatocyte, complete condensation. 

 Figs. 106 and 107 — First spermatocyte, early post synapsis. 

 Fig. 108 — First spermatocyte, later post-synapsis showing plasmosome. 

 Fig. 109 — First spermatocyte, growth stage, double plasmosome, ciliated 

 centrosome. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Fig. 110 — First spermatocyte, later growth stage, double plasmosome, 



centrosomes divided and ciliated. 

 Fig. Ill — First spermatocyte, segmented spireme, segments opening into 



rings. 

 Figs. 112-115 — First spermatocyte, stages in the formation of dyads and 



tetrads of prophase. 

 Fig. 113 — First spermatocyte, formation of chromatin-plasmosome. 

 Figs. 116 and 117 — First spermatocyte early metaphase. 

 Fig. 118 — First spermatocyte, equatorial plate. 31 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 119 — First spermatocyte, metaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 120 — First spermatocyte, anaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 121 — First spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 122 — First spermatocyte, telophase, polar view. 

 Fig. 123 — Second spermatocyte, arrangement For second division. 

 Fig. 121 — Second spermatocyte, equatorial plate, 31 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 12.5 — Second spermatocyte, metaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 126 — Second spermatocyte, anaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 127 — Second spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 12S — Spermatid, iirst stage. 

 Fig. 129 — Spermatid, second stage. 

 Fig. 130 — Spermatid, later stage, formation of axial filament. 



Plate XXVI — Automeris io — Figs. 131-135 — Spermatids, later stages, showing 

 development. 

 Fig. 136 — Spermatids, c. s. through axial filament and membranes. 



Samia cecropia — Figs. 137 and 139 — Spermatogonial stages, rest stage showing 



plasmosome. 

 Fig. 139 — Spermatogonial stages, metaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 140 — Spermatogonial stages, anaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 141 — Spermatogonial stages, telophase. 

 Fig. 142 — First spermatocyte, formation of spireme, preparatory to syn- 



ezesis. 

 Fig. 143 — First spermatocyte, smear showing granular thread of synezesis. 

 Fig. 144 — First spermatocyte, early post-synapsis. 

 Fig. 145 — First spermatocyte, later post-synapsis. 

 Fig. 146 — First spermatocyte, late post-synapsis. 

 Fig. 147 — First spermatocyte, growth stage, showing plasmosome and 



chromatin granule. 

 Fig. 148— First spermatocyte, growth stage, smear preparation, showing 



identity of chromosomes. 

 Figs. 149-152 — First spermatocyte, formation of dyads of prophase, 



formation of a chromosome from a chromatin-plasmosome. 

 Fig. 153 — First spermatocyte, equatorial plate. 30 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 154 — First spermatocyte, metaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 155 — First spermatocyte, anaphase spindle. 

 Fig. 156 — First spermatocyte, telophase spindle. 



Fig. 157 — First spermatocyte, telophase, polar view, chromosome scattering. 

 Fig. 158 — First spermatocyte, telophase, polar view. 



Figs. 159 and 160 — Second spermatocyte, arrangement for second division. 

 Fig. 161 — Second spermatocyte, equatorial plate, 30 chromosomes. 

 Fig. 162 — Second spermatocyte, metaphase. 

 Fig. 163 — Second spermatocyte, anaphase. 

 Fig. 164 — Early spermatid. 

 Fig. 165 — Spermatid, second stage. 



Plate XXVII — Samia cecropia — Fig. 166 — Spermatid, second stage. 

 Figs. 167-169 — Spermatid, later stages. 

 Fig. 170 — Spermatozoon , vibratile filament, J its length. 



Acronycta sp.,?— Figs. 171 and 172— First spermatocyte, growth stage showing 

 "chromosome granule" and mitochondria. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Figs. 173 and 174 — First spermatocyte, stages in prophase. 

 Fig. 175 — First spermatocyte, equatorial plate, 29 chromosomes, mito- 

 chondria and chromatin granule in cytoplasm. 

 Fig. 176 — First spermatocyte, metaphase. 

 Figs. 177 and 17S — First spermatocyte, anaphase. 

 Fig. 179 — First spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 180 — First spermatocyte, telophase, polar view. 

 Fig. 181 — Second spermatocyte, equatorial plate. 

 Fig. 182 — Second spermatocyte, metaphase. 

 Fig. 183 — Second spermatocyte, anaphase 

 Fig. 184 — Second spermatocyte, telophase. 

 Fig. 185 — Spermatid, second stage. 

 Figs. 186-190 — Spermatid, development. 




•328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



THE P0LYCH-7ET0US ANNELIDS DREDGED BY THE U. S. S. "ALBATROSS" OFF 



THE COAST OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA IN 1904: II. POLYNOIDJE, 



APHRODITIDJE and SEGALEONIDJE. 1 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



POLYNOIDJE. 



This family of scaled annelids is well represented in the collection 

 by twenty-six species, about half of which belong to Harmothoe and 

 related genera or, as they are here regarded because of their inter- 

 grading characters, subgenera. Twelve species are considered to 

 have been previously undescribed ; four species, previously known 

 from Japanese waters, are recorded from the American side of the 

 Pacific for the first time; nine are more or less well known on the 

 shores of California or northward and one species is doubtful. It is 

 worthy of remark that of the twelve species described as new no less 

 than eight lack pigmented eyes, so far. at least, as can be determined 

 without recourse to sections. These are distributed through a wide 

 range of genera. With the exception of Nemedia microlepida they 

 all came from considerable to great depths (500-2,000 fathoms). 

 One species (Polynoe renotubulata) is further remarkable for having the 

 nephridial papilla? prolonged into slender tubes which reach far above 

 or beyond the parapodia. 



Halosydna pulchra (Johnson). 



Polynoe pulchra Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. (3), I (1897), p. 177. 



Several specimens, the largest of which is 35 mm. long and has 60 

 segments, occur in the collection. Except in two cases nothing Is 

 stated on the labels regarding the commensal associations which are 

 frequent with this species. All have the medial or the posterior half 

 of the elytra more or less closely speckled with brown spots. Some 

 have the dorsum of each segment conspicuously marked with two 

 brown cross-bars. The prostomium of this species is intermediate in 

 some respects between the form characterizing the Lepidonotinse and 

 the Harmothoinse. In general it resembles the former most closely, 

 free cephalic peaks being absent and the cephalic lobes prolonged 



1 Part I was published in these Proceedings for June, 1909, pp. 321-351, 

 Pis. XV and XVI. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329' 



into the bases of the lateral tentacles, but a well-marked articulation 

 cuts off the latter as distinct ceratophoric segments. 



One example has the proboscis protruded. It is large and evidently 

 powerful, 5 mm. long, 2.7 mm. wide, cylindroid, little depressed dis- 

 tally, smooth. There are nine dorsal and nine ventral prominent 

 apertural papilke and behind each series a small rounded median 

 tubercle. Jaws pale brown, with large blunt fangs, the lower biting 

 to the right; lateral cutting plates thin, low, rather extended bu1 

 weak and directed chiefly laterally. 



Stations 4,310. off Point Loma, vicinity of San Diego, 71-75 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4,414, northwest of Santa Catalina Island, 

 156-162 fathoms, fine gray sand andjmud; 4,420, northeast of San 

 Nicolas Island, 33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,453, off Point Pinos 

 Light, Monterey Bay, 56-62 fathoms, green mud, "on Luidia;" 4,457,. 

 same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud, "on Luidia." 



Halosydna insignis Baird. 



Halosydna insignis Baird, Journ. Linn. Soc London, VIII (Zool.), 1805, 



p. 188. 

 Polynoe brevisetosa (Kinberg), Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., Ser 3., Zoology, 



I (1897), p. 167. Figs. 24, 31, 40 and 40. 



This very remarkable species is well represented in the collection by 

 both the commensal and the free-living phases. Were it not that 

 Johnson's familiarity with the species in its native surroundings enabled 

 him to demonstrate their identity workers on preserved material 

 alone would almost certainly have separated them as distinct species, 

 though close inspection shows that they agree in their strictly technical 

 characters. 



Though there are no accompanying notes specifying their hosts 

 or associates it is evident that most of the examples were commensals, 

 they having the elongated form and other characteristics of this phase. 

 The specimens measure from 15 to 45 mm. long, the smallest, while 

 intermediate in proportions, approximating the short stout form of 

 the free-living rather than the slender, elongated form of the commensal 

 phase. As is the case with the former the ely t ra are strongly imbricat e< 1 

 and cover the middle of the back nearly or quite completely. Both 

 phases exhibit color variations through various shades of gray and 

 brown or dusk}- and the elytra, while usually mottled, may be quite 

 plain and uniformly colored. The pigment may be arranged in dis- 

 tinct spots or assume a reticular patternfaround paler areas as in 

 H. calif ornica Johnson. Most constant is a white spot over the 

 pedicel of attachment and a black or deep brown spot mediad of or 

 behind it. Some specimens with elytra otherwise completely pig- 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



mentless have the anterior ones thus marked. Rarely this assumes 

 the character of a distinct ocellus as in Lepidasthenia gigas (Johnson). 



The tuberculatum of the elytra also varies, the larger smooth 

 papilhe, which are scattered among the numerous small corneous 

 prickle-, being elevated and conical or low and rounded, sometimes con- 

 fined to the first pair of elytra, sometime- present on all or nearly all. 

 Marginal cilia may be confined to the anterior elytra of commensal 

 specimens lint are longer and present on all elytra of free-living indi- 

 viduals, which also possess a tuft of five or six long ones just behind 

 the middle of the anterior border. The end of the notocirri may be 

 abruptly contracted as in Johnson's figure, or taper gently into the 

 terminal filament and this condition occurs independently of commensal 

 or free existence. Notopodial setal tufts are usually longer than 

 indicated in Johnson's figure and some of the dorsalmosl neuropodial 

 seta- bear an obscure accessory tooth or spur, and on commensal 

 individuals the dorsalmost pair of neuropodials may be much enlarged. 



Free-living examples of this species have much the general aspect 

 of Lepidonotus sublevis Verrill and L. clava (.Montagu), but of course 

 are readily separated by having eighteen instead of twelve pail's of 

 elytra and by other generic characters. Their neuropodial seta? 

 differ from those of commensals in being more slender and less strongly 

 hooked at the end and in having fewer (about 7) pectinated frills. 

 Besides being larger the elytra are also tougher and more horny and 

 the marginal cilia are longer. The distribution of the examples in 

 this collection suggests that other conditions than commensalism 

 may be effective in differentiating the two forms. 



The proboscis appears to differ in no way in the two phases, in 

 examples of both of which it is protruded. On a specimen 15 mm. 

 long it has a length of 2.6 mm. and a terminal width of 1.6 mm.; 

 one 40 mm. long has these measurements 5.5 and 3.2 mm. respectively, 

 the base being terete, the distal end depressed, with apertural papilke 

 f. Jaws massive and deep brown, the fangs very stout, compressed, 

 the ventral biting to the right; cutting plates well developed. 



Ehlers, 2 taking a comprehensive view of this and related nominal 

 species, unites, under the prior name of //. patagonica Kinberg, 

 H. brcrisetosa Kinberg, Polynoe chilensis Quatrefages, Lepidonotus 

 insignis Baird, Lepidonotus grubei Baird and, with some doubt, 

 Halosjjchw. parva Kinberg. His conclusion is partly based upon the 



'-' Festsch. Feier d. 150-jahr. Bestehens d. Konigl. Gesell. d. Wissensch. . z. 

 Go/lingcn, 1901, pp. 4.5-47. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



examination of specimens from the Calif ornian coast sent to him by 

 Dr. Johnson. Considered in this wide sense the species ranges along 

 the entire Pacific coast of America from the Straits of Magellan to 

 Stephens Passage, Alaska. 



Stations 4,421, southeast of San Nicolas Island, 291-298 fathoms, 

 gray mud and rocks (elongated form); 4,453, off Point Pinos Light, 

 Monterey Bay, 49 fathoms, dark green mud (short form); 4,457, same 

 locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green mud (short form); 4,464, same 

 locality. 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud (short form); 4,496, off 

 Santa Cruz Light, Monterey Bay, 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rocks 

 (20 specimens of the elongated form). 



Halosydna californica (Johnson). 



Polynoe californica Johnson, Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXIX (1901), 

 p. 387. 



Specimens of this handsome species from 12-30 mm. long occur in 

 the collection. The elytra present considerable color variation: 

 Some are pale brown with the characteristic reticular pattern ; others 

 have them of a nearly uniform reddish brown, with a white spot, 

 accentuated by a small deep brown spot, over the point of attachment ; 

 on one of the latter the first three pairs are translucent mottled grayish. 

 Two of the smallest and the largest one have the elytra pale uniform 

 gray with colorless lateral margins and no mottling and the white 

 attachment spots on those of the last two pairs only. The two stations 

 at which examples were taken yielded H. insignis also. No notes on 

 commensalism are furnished but the specimens from Station 4,421 

 were entangled with terrebelid tentacular filaments. 



Stations 4,421, southeast of San Nicolas Island, 291-298 fathoms, 

 gray mud and rocks; 4,496, off Santa Cruz Light, Monterey Bay, 

 10 fathoms, fine gray sand and rocks. 

 Halosydna interrupta v. Marenzeller. 



Halosydna interrupta v. Marenzeller, Denksch. d. kais. Akad. d. Wissensch. 



Wien, Math.-Nat. CI., LXXII (1902), p. 570, Taf. I, fig. 2. 

 Polynoe semierma Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1903), pp. 402, 403, 



PI. XXIII, figs. 2 and 3. 



The occurrence of a well-preserved and apparently complete example 

 (though in three pieces) of this species in the collection permits of the 

 determination of the above synonymy and the correction of both 

 original descriptions, which were based upon incomplete and poorly 

 preserved specimens. The prostomium of the type of P. semierma is 

 badly macerated and the description based upon it quite incorrect 

 and misleading. The following description of the present example 

 is therefore supplied. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Prostomium small, nearly as long as broad, depressed, with a median 

 dorsal furrow dividing it for the entire length into two smooth, convex 

 lobes that taper at the anterior end gently into the bases of the slender 

 tentacular ceratophores. Xo peaks and no prominent ocular lobes. 

 Eyes two pail's, very small; the posterior strictly dorsal near caudal 

 border; the anterior lateral on widest convexity of prostomium. 

 Median ceratophore arising from cephalic sinus, slender, about one-half 

 of its length extending beyond lateral ceratophore. Median tentacu- 

 lar style about five and one-half times length of prostomium, slender, 

 tapered, smooth, with a moderate subterminal enlargement and a 

 very delicate terminal filament about as long as the prostomium. 

 Lateral tentacles arising from the frontal prolongation or ceratophores ; 

 styles slightly more than one-half as long as the median style, very 

 slender, without evident subterminal enlargements and the terminal 

 filaments relatively longer than those of the median tentacle. The 

 single palp remaining is moderately stout at the base, about five 

 times as long as the prostomium, strongly simulated and tapered to 

 a very short terminal filament. 



Peristomial parapodia apparently quite achaetous. Tentacular 

 cirri like median tentacle and about three-fourths as long, the ventral 

 slightly shorter. Notocirri alternately longer and shorter; the 

 longer styles frequently having a line of fracture or articulation near 

 the middle which <iives the appearance of a greatly elongated cirro- 

 phore. Posteriori}' the longer cirri follow immediately the elytra 

 and are succeeded by shorter ones. The neurocirrus of somite III of 

 one side is duplicated. 



The specimen is 55 mm. long and has 107 segments. The elytra 

 are small, leaving the entire middle of the back uncovered, and there 

 are thirty-six pairs the first fifteen arranged as in Harmothoii to somite 

 XXXII, the sixteenth on XXXI V and the remaining ones on every 

 third following segment. Von Marenzeller's specimen, which was 

 dredged at a depth of 480 m. off Eno-sima, Japan, consisted of two 

 pieces. The anterior of nineteen segments bore ten pairs of elytra 

 arranged like their homologues in Harmothoe, etc. The posterior 

 piece consisted of twenty-seven segments terminated by a pygidium 

 and bearing seven pairs of elytra on the third, sixth, eighth and every 

 third segment following. Marenzeller considers that somites XX to 

 XXIII along with two pairs of elytra on XXI and XXIII have been 

 lost and that the first three pairs of elytra on the posterior piece are 

 borne, therefore, on XXVI, XXIX and XXXI. This placing of the 

 elytra is the only discrepancy existing between his description and 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



the present specimen, which agrees fully in this respect with the type 

 of P. semierma. If v. Marenzeller's example, however, lacks the seven 

 segments (XX-XXVI) and the three pairs of elytra borne on XXI, 

 XXIII and XXVI the elytra on the posterior piece would fall on 

 somites XXIX, XXXII, XXXIY, XXXVII, etc. and the agreement 

 would be complete. 



This specimen is well colored, each segment being marked on the 

 dorsum with a rather bold, transverse dull purplish-brown bar and the 

 elytra are slightly mottled with brown. 



Station 4,339, off Point Loma Light, vicinity of San Diego, 241-369 

 fathoms, green mud. 



Lepidonotus caeloris Moore. 



Lepidonotus ccehris Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 412-414, 

 PI. XXIII, fig. 12. 



This species, originally discovered off Japan and later found to be 

 widely and plentifully distributed from Vancouver to the Kadiak 

 Islands, is now determined to be equally common in the region covered 

 by these explorations, from which it was previously known through 

 a single small example dredged at Monterey Bay. The bathymetrical 

 range shown by these explorations is from 26 to 1,400 fathoms. 



These specimens range in size from 8 to 35 mm. and present all of 

 the color varieties of yellow, orange, reddish, olive brown, dark brown, 

 duskjr and nearby black, the brighter colors being sometimes confined 

 to the papillae, sometimes overspreading the entire elytra. The 

 elytral tubercles show a distinct tendency to become larger than on 

 northern examples and at the same time lower, flatter and smoother, 

 especially on middle scales. At the ends of the body they are fre- 

 quently conical. 



Several specimens have the proboscis extended. On one 25 mm. 

 long it is 5.3 mm. long and 3 mm. wide, cylindroid, somewhat depressed 

 at distal end and bearing the usual nine dorsal and nine ventral blunt 

 papilla?. Jaws deep brown ; the fangs rather stout and blunt, cutting- 

 edge rather long, knife-like. 



Stations 4,310, Point Loma Light, San Diego, 71-75 fathoms, green 

 mud and sand ; 4,326, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 243- 

 280 fathoms, soft green mud; 4,411, off Long Point, Santa Catalina 

 Island, 143-245 fathoms, gray sand and shells ; 4,417, off Santa Barbara 

 Island, 29 fathoms, fine yellow sand and coralline rock; 4,420, off 

 San Nicolas Island 32-33 fathoms, fine gray sand; 4,421, same locality, 

 229-291 fathoms, gray mud and rocks; 4,423, same locality, 216-339 

 fathoms, gray sand, black pebbles and shells; 4,427, off Santa Cruz 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Island, 447-510 fathoms, black mud and rocks ; 4,430, off Gull Island, 

 Santa Cruz Island, 197-281 fathoms, black sand, pebbles and rocks; 

 4,431, off Santa Rosa Island, 38-40 fathoms, mud, sand and rock ; 4,461 . 

 Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 285-357 fathoms, green mud; 

 4,515, same, 368-495 fathoms, green mud, sand and shells; 4,531, 

 same, 26-28 fathoms, fine gray sand, pebbles and rock; 4,550, same, 

 50-57 fathoms, green mud and rock; 4,574, off Cape Colnett, Lower 

 California, 1,400 fathoms. Especially plentiful at stations 4,420, 

 4,421, 4,430, 4,431 and 4,461, most of the other stations yielding only 

 one or two specimens. 



Lepidonotus sp. ? 



A nearly perfect Lepidonotus 12 mm. long was at first referred to 

 L. carinulatus Grube. a species that has been recorded from the Red 

 Sea and the Philippine Islands by Grube, from Japan by v. Marenzeller 

 and more recently from Ceylon by Willey. There exists a close 

 resemblance, especially in the character of the elytra between this 

 specimen and Grube's description but serious discrepancies arise with 

 Marenzeller's and even more with Willey 's descriptions. The neuro- 

 podial seta> are of the typical Lepidonotus type with no trace of a 

 true subapical spur, but the last pair of toothed plates is greatly de- 

 veloped and superficially somewhat resembles a spur, the remaining 

 ones being reduced in number and much reduced in size or even 

 obsolete. On the whole they resemble the corresponding setse of 

 L. caioris but are more slender. 



On most of the elytra the horny bosses take the form of subcircular 

 bases rising into more or less compressed keels, many of which are 

 more or less irregular and spinous but which as a rule are smooth and 

 lack the sculpturing so evident on typical L. ccdoris. Anterior elytra, 

 however, show traces of this sculpturing on the more conical papillae. 

 The marginal fringe is very long and extensive. The prostomium has 

 the typical Lepidonotus form quite unlike Willey 's figure of L. carinu- 

 latus. Their color is pale brown with a light spot over the point of 

 attachment. 



On the whole it seems best to consider this specimen provisionally 

 as a variation of L. caioris. 



Station 4.496. off Santa Cruz Light, Monterey Bay, 10 fathoms, 

 fine gray sand and rocks. 



Eunoe barbata sp. now PL XXVIII, figs. 1-6. 



Form moderately robust, dorso-ventral depth nearly equal to width 

 of bodv in anterior half but the posterior tapering region much more 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



depressed. Segments 39. Type 29 mm. long; maximum width at 

 XII : body alone, 4.5 mm. ; between tips of parapodia, 8 mm. ; between 

 tips of seta?, 10 mm. 



Prostomium very small, its width less than one-fifth width of body, 

 broader than long; dorsal furrow shallow and short, the cephalic 

 lobes not well differentiated from each other or from the median 

 ceratophore. Peaks very short and blunt, inconspicuous, but diverg- 

 ing from the median tentacle, well above and largely free from the 

 lateral tentacles. Eyes tw r o pairs, black, conspicuous, the diameter 

 of each about one-eighth width of prostomium; the posterior pair 

 dorsal and near the postero-lateral border; the anterior pair ventro- 

 lateral, anterior to middle of prostomium. Median tentacle with 

 short, stout ceratophore half as thick and one-third as long as prosto- 

 mial width ; styles lost from both type and cotype. Lateral tentacles 

 with ceratophores one-half length and one-fourth diameter of median ; 

 styles nearly twice length of prostomium, the basal half nearly uniform 

 in diameter, followed by a slight enlargement bearing the abruptly 

 filamentous terminal third, sensory cilia few and scattered, short, 

 with slightly bulbous tips. Palps slender, terete or slightly five- 

 angled with prominent longitudinal lines of densely placed cylindrical 

 cilia, regularly tapered, about five to five and one-half times as long 

 as the prostomium. Facial ridge low but, owing to its dark brown 

 color on a white background, very conspicuous. 



Peristomium represented dorsally by a small nuchal fold, ventrally 

 produced forward and united with prostomium. Its parapodia bear 

 from one to three small curved setae. Cirrophores of tentacular cirri 

 prominent, reaching beyond anterior border of prostomium; styles 

 rather stout, subequal, the dorsal reaching to end of third quarter of 

 palps, the ventral slightly shorter, gently tapered to a fusiform sub- 

 terminal enlargement which passes abruptly into a terminal filament 

 less than one-fifth the total length ; sensory cilia scattered, short with 

 thickened ends. Mouth with the usual swollen, rugose lips, the lateral 

 pair embracing the facial ridge anteriorly. Metastomial segments 

 strongly arched anteriorly, posteriorly depressed and tapering to the 

 minute pygidium w T hich (on the type) bears a single cirrus resembling the 

 tentacular cirri but little more than half as long and entirety pale. 

 Neural groove broad and w^ell defined. Xephridial papilla? begin on 

 VI at postero-lateral border of segments, short and directed slightly 

 upward into the furrows. 



Typical parapodia rather short, less than one-half width of segments, 

 stout, little compressed, interramal cleft little developed, the notopo- 

 22 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dium overlapping neuropodium from behind. Notopodium much 

 smaller than neuropodium but reaching nearly as far distad, ovate, 

 compressed, oblique, divided by the setigerous cleft and bearing near 

 the ventral border a prominent, conical acicular tubercle. Neuro- 

 podium compressed, the base somewhat narrowed and distal part 

 expanded and tapering to a right-angular apex near the dorsal border, 

 from which the tapered truncate acicular process projects and bears 

 on the dorsal side of its distal end a blunt, finger-like cirrus equal to 

 its own length. On posterior segments the two rami become more 

 nearly equal, the notopodium more slender and projecting and the 

 interramal sinus wider. 



Notocirrophores prominent, cylindroid with tumid base, suberect 

 and curved, arising postero-dorsad to notopodia; styles similar to 

 tentacular cirri, mostly curved postero-medially over dorsum, on 

 middle segments reaching the length of their terminal filaments 

 beyond median line and nearly unchanged in length posteriorly. On 

 all parts except the terminal filament they bear numerous cilia of 

 varied lengths, many of those on the basal half having a length of 

 twice the diameter of the style. Neurocirri arise much proximad of 

 the middle of ventral face of neuropodium, are smooth, subulate, 

 slender and reach nearly to the base of the acicular process of neuro- 

 podium. Neurocirrus of II about two and one-half times length of 

 others and terminated abruptly in a filament. 



Aciculum single in each ramus, stout, tapered, yellow, the blunt 

 end projecting for a considerable distance beyond the acicular process. 

 Setae all pale yellow. Notopodials arranged in a short compact tuft pro- 

 jecting much dorsad but spreading only slightly. They (PI. XXVIII, 

 figs. 2 and 3) are about as stout as the neuropodials, the distal half 

 bearing numerous, rather distinct and extensive combs; their ends 

 blunt and free of the transverse pectinated processes for only a short 

 distance, some nearly or quite smooth but many bearing a greater 

 or less number (figs. 2 and 3) of appressed scale-like teeth and a few 

 with brush-like ends like those of E. truncata. The few perlstomial 

 setae are like the shorter, curved notopodials. Neuropodial setae 

 (fig. 1) in about three supra-acicular and six subacicular series, gently 

 curved, with enlarged ends bearing from eleven, on the short setae 

 of the ventral row, to twenty, on those of the dorsal row, transverse 

 pectinae on each side which become conspicuous in size and distinctly 

 alternate in position only toward the distal end; smooth tips long, 

 two to three times greatest diameter of the setae, stout, strongly hooked 

 and without trace of an accessory process. Caudally the setae become 

 much more slender but are otherwise unmodified. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Elytraphores 15 pairs, on II, IV, V, VII, to XXIII, XXVI, XXIX, 

 XXXII. They are rather small and only moderately prominent with 

 oval or slightly auricular scars from which the elytra are very easily 

 •detached. Alternating with them but more mesad in position are 

 small and simple rounded dorsal tubercles. Elytra (Pi. XXVIII, fig. 4) 

 of moderate size and rather thick, soft, texture. Except for a few 

 posterior segments they nearly or quite cover the dorsum. Those of 

 the first pair are small and irregularly circular, the second and third 

 pairs narrow and strongly reniform or bean-shaped; remaining ones 

 so far as known rather broadly ovate-elliptical with the broader end 

 lateral and the anterior border slightly concave or nearly straight. 

 The small scar lies well anterior and slightly lateral to the middle. 

 Except for a small translucent portion of the antero-medial border 

 the surface is thickly covered with hard tubercles, very small and 

 numerous at the antero-medial margin (figs. 4 and 5) but becoming 

 larger and fewer toward the postero-lateral margin (figs. 4 and 6). 

 With the exception of the very smallest these tubercles are knoblike 

 and bear on the summit two, three or more stout, sharp points; some 

 of them are very thickly studded with spines which vary in length 

 on different elytra. A variable number of tubercles near the posterior 

 border and in the neighborhood of the scar are much more massive 

 than the others; these likewise are studded with spines, long or short 

 according to the habit of the particular elytron; many of them are 

 surrounded by a raised ring. Marginal fringe extensive, passing 

 round nearly the entire exposed margin, the cilia slightly knobbed 

 distally and varying much in length, those on the posterior border 

 short and inconspicuous, those of the lateral border exceeding the 

 length of the largest papilla?. Scattered over the exposed surface 

 among the spines are numerous short cilia and slightly behind the 

 middle of the posterior border is a loose irregular tuft of cilia, some of 

 which are even longer than the longest lateral cilia. On the first pair 

 large rough tubercles are scattered round the entire margin and the 

 cilia have an even more extensive distribution but are much shorter. 



Color of middle portion of dorsum brown or olive; parapodia and 

 under parts chiefly colorless. Prostomium purple; eyes black; ten- 

 tacular elytrophores brown, the lateral very dark; styles of cephalic 

 tentacles, tentacular cirri and notocirri of setigerous segments beauti- 

 fully mottled brown and white with the white tip preceded by a brown 

 and this again by a white annulus at the beginning of the subterminal 

 enlargement. Facial ridge brown, palps and notocirri colorless. 

 Elytra, except for the translucent colorless portion, beautifully mot- 

 tled with brown, gray and white, the papillae brown or yellow. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



A single specimen of this species (co-type) occurs in the collection 

 from Station 4,496. 



The type is No. 2,028 of the collection of this Academy and is 

 referred to on p. 335 of the Proceedings for 1908 under the name of 

 Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson as coming from Station 4,205 in Puget 

 Sound. My belief at that time was that H. hirsuta lost the areolation 

 of the elytra and the accessory tooth of the tips of the neuropodial 

 setae with age but additional material has convinced me that this is 

 not the case. This species, though related to H. hirsuta, differs in the 

 form of both notopodial and neuropodial setae and in the absence of 

 elytral areas. 



Station 4,496. Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Light, 10 fathoms, 

 fine gray mud and sand. 

 Eunoe caeca sp. uov. PI. XXVIII. figs.7-12. 



A species having the general aspect of Polynoe pulchra Johnson, of 

 similar commensalistic habits, but somewhat stouter. The body is 

 rather thick dorso-ventrally and the parapodia slope upward, forming 

 a shallow, open trough above, a peculiarity that at once distinguish!' 

 this species from the last. The type is 40 mm. long, the maximum 

 width at about X being, body — 6 mm., between tips of parapodia — 

 11 mm., between tips of setae — 14 mm. Number of segments 43. Tw< > 

 of the cotypes are of equal size, the third about one-fourth smaller. 



Prostomium (PI. XXVIII, fig. 7) squarish, the posterior border alone 

 strongly rounded, slightly wider than long, posterior half of lateral 

 border somewhat bulging and convex, sides anterior to this gently 

 convergent to the prominent antero-lateral angles or peaks; anterior 

 borders nearly straight with a very shallow median emargination ; 

 no dorsal furrow and no eyes. Ceratophore of median tentacle at 

 level of dorsal surface of prostomium and separated from it by a very 

 slight transverse groove, barrel-shaped, about one-half length of 

 prostomium and, owing to slight development of anterior fissure, 

 standing freely and prominently forward. Style (fig. 7) about three 

 and one-half times length of prostomium, slender, regularly tapered, 

 with filamentous tip and no subterminal enlargement ; sensory papilla* 

 almost entirely wanting, only a very few small ones being present. 

 Lateral tentacles arising at a low level on antero-ventral face of 

 prostomium from cylindrical ceratophores which are nearly as long 

 as, but much more slender than, the median ceratophore and which lie 

 well mediae! of the cephalic peaks; styles about one and one-third 

 to one and one-half times length of prostomium, very slender, sub- 

 ulate, with long filamentous tips. Palpi also very long, slender and 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



perfectly smooth, four to four and one-half times length of prostomium; 

 sensory papillse not obvious. Facial tubercle unusually large, elevated 

 on facial ridge. 



Mouth large with prominent, pouting, trifid, furrowed lips, the 

 facial ridge passing between the anterior pair. Peristomium obvious 

 only through its parapodia which project well forward beyond the 

 cephalic peaks and bear on the medial side a prominent tubercle from 

 wiiich projects the end of a stout brown aciculum and below this a 

 pair of stout notopodial seta?; beyond this the cirrophores separate. 

 Styles of tentacular cirri similar to median tentacle which the dorsal 

 slightly exceeds, the ventral slightly shorter. 



Metastomial segments indistinctly separated by faint furrows, the 

 whole ventral surface forming a somewhat prominent sole-like struc- 

 ture, with the neural furrow and lateral ridges only moderately well- 

 marked. Xephridial papilla? begin of VI ; small, flattened, inconspicuous 

 and projecting upward between the bases of the parapodia. Owing 

 to the peculiar elevation of the parapodia the dorsum of the body 

 appears to be depressed and gives the effect of a furrow. Elytro- 

 phores occur on II, IV, V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, 

 XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII = 15 pairs ; they lie well out on the 

 bases of the parapodia, are low and wide and often constricted below the 

 nearly circular free surface. Dorsal tubercles are subcorneal promi- 

 nences occurring at the same level as the elytrophores but projecting 

 beyond them slightly lateral. The greatest width is at about somite 

 X, anterior to which the sides curve broadly into the oral region and 

 behind which they taper regularly to the pygidium, which is a minute, 

 short, tubular segment with dorsal anus, below which is a common 

 cirrophore bearing the two very slender anal cirri exceeding in length 

 the greatest width of the body without parapodia. 



Parapodia rather short, on anterior and middle segments scarcely 

 more than one-half width of segments bearing them. As indicated 

 above they slope dorsad from the ventral surface rather strongly. 

 They are compressed and at the base rather deep, the rami only slightly 

 separated (PI. XXVIII, fig. 8). Notopodium very short and thick, the 

 moderately elongated, conical acicular process obliquely truncated 

 at the end, projecting from its ventral margin and reaching to or 

 slightly beyond the end of the neuropodial acicular process. Neuro- 

 podium compressed, tapered to a blunt point and extended beyond 

 the notopodium by a foliaceous margin or presetal lobe including in 

 its dorsal part the rather obscure acicular process, which is broad and 

 flat, nearly as long as the notopodial acicular process and bears at its 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



end a short, blunt flat cirrus. Parapodium II scarcely differs from the 

 others. 



Notocirrophores arising almost directly behind notopodia, prominent, 

 suberect, reaching level of neuropodial acicular process, cylindroid 

 with somewhat tumid base. Styles (fig. 8) long and slender, reaching 

 to middle of dorsum and far beyond setae tips, like medium tentacle 

 in all respects. Those at the caudal end much elongated and slender. 



Acicula single, deep brown, very stout, tapered to acute, pale tips 

 which project slightly beyond the acicular processes in both rami. 

 Neuropodial setse (PI. XXVIII, figs. 9 and 10) reduced in number, usually 

 two supra-acicular and six subacicular series of two to four each on 

 middle segments. All stout, deep yellow, prominent, with the thick- 

 ened terminal portion strong and long (generally about two-fifths of 

 exposed length); transverse pectinations numerous and close but 

 exceedingly fine and on many setae quite obsolete, apparently as the 

 result of wear; smooth tip rather long (2-3 times diameter of seta) 

 stout, curved and lacking an accessory tooth (fig. 10). Notopodial 

 setae also comparatively few, forming an irregular loose bundle, deep 

 yellow, about as stout as the neuropodials but much shorter, nearly 

 straight, tapered to blunt, smooth tips and with the trans verse rows 

 of spines nearly or quite obsolete (figs. 11 and 12). Both kinds of 

 setae resemble those figured by Mcintosh for Polynoe enplectellce but 

 are stouter. 



Elytra attached with moderate firmness, of delicate gelatinoid 

 consistency and in their evidently much contracted state shrunken 

 away from the middle line and having a deep central depression 

 and more or less folded and frilled raised margins. Probably they are 

 in life flat and overlap widely. So far as can be determined the first 

 is circular, the others more or less broadly reniform. They are color- 

 less, translucent and totally without marginal cilia or obvious tubercles 

 on the smooth dorsal surface. Under the microscope an area of rather 

 closely placed minute horny tubercles appears behind the hilum and 

 similar tubercles are scattered widely over the entire surface. 



Except for a slight purplish brown color of the head the entire 

 worm is colorless. 



Station 4,537, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 861-1,062 

 fathoms, hard sand and mud. Commensal on Holothuria sp. (four 

 specimens). 



Harmothoe (Lagisca) multisetosa Moore. 



Lagisca multisetosa Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 267-269, 

 PI. XIV, figs. 29-36. 



The specimens in the collection referred to under this and the 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 341 



following two names form a puzzling group the status of which was 

 decided upon only after much hesitation. This arose chiefly from the 

 imperfect preservation of the specimens and the absence of attached 

 elytra, but also because of the similarity and variability of the species. 

 All three species have the caudal end of the body slender and tapered 

 and prolonged considerably beyond the last elytra. 



The cephalic peaks vary greatly, being sometimes much more 

 prominent and acute than is usual in the genus, sometimes short and 

 round, but it is probable that these variations arose as the result of 

 conditions of preservation. No attached elytra were found but two 

 or three loose ones differ from those typical of this species in no way 

 except in the slight development of soft papillae. A bottle from 

 station 4,405 containing some examples of this and the next species 

 yielded three kinds of loose elytra: those typical of the two species 

 and another form lacking large soft papillae and covered thickly with 

 long slender acute spines, resembling very closely, therefore, the 

 elytra of Lagisca crosetensis Mcintosh. A study of all the material 

 at my disposal brings to light an unbroken series between this form 

 and those with large soft papillae and small spines. The setae figured 

 by Mcintosh differ considerably from those of L. multisetosa which 

 have the pectinated plates of the neuropodials continued almost to 

 the tip. It seems not improbable, however, that a fuller knowledge 

 of the LagisccB of the Pacific will demonstrate a multiplicity of variable 

 and intergrading forms. 



Stations 4,405, off San Clemente Island, 654-704 fathoms, green 

 mud; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island, 447-510 fathoms, black mud and 

 rocks; 4,453, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 49-51 fathoms, 

 green mud; 4,517, same, 750-766 fathoms, green mud and sand; 4,574, 

 off Cape Colnett, Lower California, 1,400 fathoms. 



Harmothoe (Lagisca) lamellifera v. Marenzeller. 



Polynoe (LceniUa) lamellifera v. ; Marenzeller, Denkschr. konigl. Akad 

 Wiss. Wien, XLI, Math.-Nat. 01., 2d. Abth. (1879), pp. 115-117, Taf. I. 

 fig. 5. 



Lagisca multisetosa papillata Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908 

 p. 335. 



Most of the specimens here referred to this species agree closely 

 with v. Marenzeller's description and figures but others have setae and 

 elytra that vary somewhat in the direction of both the preceding and 

 following species, from typical examples of both of which these are 

 distinguished by the much reduced cephalic peaks, the sparseness of 

 the marginal fringe of cilia on the elytra, the very short blunt tips of 

 the notopodial setae and the very slender and elongated neuropodial 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April., 



setae with their remarkably rich pectination consisting of forty or 

 more pairs of combs reaching nearly to the tip. 



Marenzeller's figure of the prostomium is undoubtedly drawn from 

 a specimen in which the peaks were retracted and bent dorsad so that 

 they fail to be represented in the figure. All of my specimens possess 

 minute but quite evident peaks. If my interpretation be correct 

 the ventral lamella referred to by v. Marenzeller is an integumental 

 fold close to the nephridial papillae and under certain conditions of 

 preservation appears in many species. It is therefore not diagnostic 

 and occurs in Mime of these specimens and is absent from others. 



Typical elytra quite like v. Marenzeller's figure were found in bottles 

 containing specimens of this species from stations 4,339, 4.405, 4,425 

 and 4.42X. The margin bears but a few short cilia and the outer 

 surface is thickly studded with small, truncate horny spines among 

 which are scattered, posterior to the attachment and more or less 

 arranged in oblique rows, the larger soft papillae. These are generally 

 brown in color and of low, rounded, somewhat recumbent form and 

 appear to be hollow. Usually they are small and quite numerous. 

 Others have the papillae near the posterior border much more enlarged 

 and several from stations 4.339 and 4,405 have few small soft papilla? 

 but much larger mammilliform or sugar-loaf-shaped submarginal 

 papillae exactly like those of the types of L. nndtisetosa papillata. In 

 one case these papillae number only four or five, clavate and connate with 

 the surface of the scale except at the tips, and in the case of two elytra 

 from station 4,405, which appear to be the first pair, the papilla? are 

 large, decumbent cones. 



The setae agree closely with v. Marenzeller's figures but the accessor}' 

 tooth of the tip of the neuropodiaLs is present more commonly than 

 he indicates and the pectinated plates reach nearer to the tip. The 

 rows of spines of the notopodials always reach nearly to the blunt 

 tip which is frequently roughened but the extent of the tip thus 

 exposed varies somewhat. 



While most of the specimens are small and much broken some of 

 those from station 4,405, although completely denuded of appendages, 

 have all segments present. One of the largest of these has forty-three 

 segments, the fifteenth pair of elvtrophores occurring on XXXII, and 

 measures 55 mm. by 15 mm. between setae tips. Marenzeller gives 

 only thirty-six segments. 



The color above is a pale or medium brown with two narrow, white 

 lines across each segment, the venter gray ; elytra more or less suffused 

 with brown on the medial half. Several of the specimens are filled 

 with eggs. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



Stations 4,305, off Point Loma Light, near San Diego, 67-116 

 fathoms, gray sand and shells; 4,310, same, 71-75 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand; 4,339, same, 241-369 fathoms, green mud; 4,389, 

 off Point Loma Lighthouse, 639-671 fathoms, green mud, gray sand; 

 4,405, off San Clemente Island, 654-704 fathoms, green mud; 4,425, 

 off San Nicolas Island, 1,100 fathoms, green Globergerina mud and fine 

 sand; 4,428, off Santa Cruz Island, 764-891 -fathoms, green mud. 



Harmothoe (Lagisca) yokohamiensis Mcintosh. 



Lagisca yokohamiensis Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, Zoology, Vol. XII, 

 pp. 89, 90, PI. XIA, figs. 12 and 13. 



This species lacks the large soft papillae that adorn the elytra of the 

 two preceding. The horny papilla? are small, conical or truncate and 

 are uniformly distributed over the entire exposed portion of the elytra. 

 Marginal cilia are moderately long and have slightly bulbous tips and 

 a few longer cilia are borne on the surface near the posterior margin. 



Notopodial setae are rather stout, the largest about three times the 

 diameter of the neuropodials and their smooth tips (PI. XXXI, fig. B) 

 are much longer than in the preceding species, the rows of spines very 

 numerous and the longest nearly encircling the seta. The extent to 

 which they bend over the dorsum and protect the elytra is noteworthy 

 and calls to mind the condition in Gattyana. Neuropodials (PI. XXXI, 

 fig. A) also have much longer tips and only twenty to thirty pairs of 

 pectinated plates and the rather prominent accessory tooth is present 

 on all but the ventralmost rows. Notocirri are long and very slender 

 with the subterminal enlargement scarcely visible and the terminal 

 filament unusually long and bear a moderate number of clavate cilia 

 much longer than those on the tentacles. 



Several have the proboscis protruded. In one 28 mm. long it is 

 4.6 mm. long and 2.5 mm. at the orifice. It is clavate, the distal end 

 nearly circular, the mouth rather small and lozenge-shaped; orifical 

 papilla? nine above and nine below. Jaws pale brown, the fangs 

 compressed, prominently outstanding like a parrot's beak and the 

 knife-like cutting plates directed more antero-posteriorly than trans- 

 versely. Complete examples have from forty-four to forty-six seg- 

 ments. 



Color above dark or usually pale brown with or without narrow 

 transverse white lines, below nearly colorless. Elytra colorless or the 

 posterior part marked with brown usually in three large blotches. 

 Ova occur in only one specimen from an unknown station. 



This may be the Hawaiian species referred to H. haliaeta Mcintosh 

 by Treadwell. These specimens agree very closely with Mcintosh's 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



description and figures. The marginal cilia of the elytra might be 

 more correctly described, however, as moderate in size and number 

 rather than long and numerous. Mcintosh pointed out that his 

 species h closely related to Polynoe {Lcenilla) lamellifera Marenzeller, 

 the only conspicuous difference being the absence of soft elytral 

 papillse. Polynoe subfumida Grube is another allied species. 



Stations 4,414, off Santa Catalina Island, 152-162 fathoms, fine 

 gray sand and mud; 4,427, off Santa Cruz Island, 447-510 fathoms,, 

 black mud, rocks; 4,430, off south coast of Santa Cruz Island, 197-281 

 fathoms, black sand, pebbles, rocks; 4,515, Monterey Bay, Point 

 Pinos Light, 368-495 fathoms, green mud, sand, shells; 4,537, same, 

 1,041-1,062 fathoms, hard sand and mud. 

 Harmothoe scriptoria sp. nov. PI. XXVIII, figs. 13-17. 



A pretty, dainty species with delicate, easily detached scales. 

 Moderately slender, slightly depressed, little tapered toward the two 

 ends which are nearly equally rounded. Measurements of type: 

 length 15 mm., width at X, body, 1.6 mm., between tips of parapodia 

 4 mm., between tips of setae 5.5 mm. Number of segments 39. Type 

 9 filled with ova. , 



Prostomium (Pi. XXVIII, fig. 13) slightly longer than wide with a 

 distinct longitudinal dorsal median furrow for its entire length, slightly 

 and regularly convex laterally, broadly rounded or subtruncate 

 anteriorly, without distinct peaks and little or not at all overhanging 

 the bases of the lateral tentacles. Eyes, two pairs, black, small; 

 the posterior not more than one-fourteenth width of prostomium, 

 dorso-lateral, separated hy two or three times its diameter from 

 posterior border of prostomium; the anterior slightly larger, lateral 

 and slightly ventral, about one-third of length of prostomium from 

 its anterior end. Median ceratophore short and thick, projecting but 

 little from the cephalic sinus; style of median tentacle unknown but 

 its character ma}' be judged by the tantacular cirri. Lateral tentacles 

 small, total length less than prostomium, arising from anterior face 

 of prostomium slightly below median ceratophore, their ceratophores 

 very short ; styles regularly subulate. Palps two and one-half or 

 three times as long as prostomium, rather stout and projecting later- 

 ally beyond prostomium at base, tapering gradually to near tip and 

 then rapidly to a sharp point ; no distinct raised lines or ridges. Facial 

 ridge large, broad and rounded. 



Peristomial parapodia large and projecting well-foward beyond 

 prostomium, achsetous, the tentacular cirrophores well separated ; 

 styles moderately slender, regularly tapered, without subterminal 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



enlargement, terminal filament short or indistinct; the dorsal about 

 four-fifths, the ventral three-fourths length of palpi. Mouth sur- 

 rounded by a furrowed trilobate lip. Remaining segments well marked. 

 Greatest width near anterior end (VII or VIII), thence body regularly 

 but very gently tapered caudad. Neural furrow distinct and dee}). 

 Nephridial papillae not clearly seen, evidently very small. Dorsum 

 with intersegmental furrows well developed except in pharyngeal 

 region. Dorsal tubercles small and inconspicuous. Pygidium larger 

 than usual in the family ; anus dorsal. Anal cirri lost but a pair of 

 small cirri, evidently the last notopodials, at sides of anus. 



Parapodia (fig. 14) rather prominent, nearly equalling width of 

 body on middle segments. In the type the base somewhat swollen 

 with eggs, thence tapered distad to the pointed apex. Neuropodium 

 large, compressed, tapered to a prominent, acutely triangular, flattened, 

 acicular lobe, beyond which the aciculum appears not to project 

 (fig. 14 a ). Notopodium of typical parapodia reduced to a small 

 antero-dorsal setigerous lobe with a finger-shaped acicular process 

 at its ventral border from the end of which the tip of the small aciculum 

 projects. 



Notocirrophores small, but rather elevated, situated a little'dorsad 

 and caudad of notopodia; styles short, reaching tips of neuropodial 

 setse only, subulate with thickened base tapered to slender, acute point, 

 bearing a very few minute clavate sensory cilia or none. Neurocirri 

 arising far out beyond middle of ventral face of parapodia, not reaching 

 end of neuropodia, slender, regularly subulate, acute. Neurocirrus 

 of II about twice as long as its parapodium, nearly equal to ventral 

 tentacular cirrus. 



Elytra 15 pairs, having the customary arrangement, small, and little 

 elevated. Elytra (Pi. XXVIII, fig. 15) easily detached, only slightly 

 imbricated and barely covering dorsum. First pair subcircular and 

 completely hiding prostomium, its small scar slightly caudad of middle; 

 the next two strongly reniform with a deep hilum close to which is the 

 scar of attachment; succeeding ones larger, broader and less deeply 

 emarginate, with the scar slightly antero-lateral of the center; the 

 last pair, finally, subquadrate-elliptical with the attachment anterior 

 to the center. All are thin, delicate and membranous, perfectly 

 smooth, and entirely lack cilia and tubercles, except for a small area 

 of minute, rounded corneous granules just behind the hilum. They 

 are pale and daintily colored, with a bluish-gray ground and white 

 subcentral spot, a pale brown postero-medial submarginal crescent 

 and a small more deeply colored pigment spot over the point of attach- 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



merit. The first has a complete circle of brown round a white center. 

 Under the microscope the surface shows close and curious fine pencil- 

 like white markings (fig. 15 a ) usually wavy or crenulated and often bent 

 or branched, having somewhat the appearance of written characters. 

 The branching of the nerves from the scar is also very obvious. 



Acicular single in each ramus, the notopodial very small and its 

 acute tip projecting freely from the end of the acicular process; neu- 

 ropodial very much stouter, its tip just appearing at the surface 

 ventrad and proximad to the tip of the acicular process. 



Notopodial seta? (PI. XXVIII, fig. 17) forming a whorl, few, short, not 

 reaching to level of tip of neuropodium, about as stout as neuropodials, 

 colorless or pale yellow, scarcely curved, tapered, blunt-pointed, the 

 distal half marked with numerous, fine, close combs, which become 

 longer distally and reach nearly to the tip. As usual the dorsalmost 

 are stouter, shorter and more curved. Neuropodial setae ( PI. XXVIII, 

 fig. 16) in three supra- and eight subacicular series, colorless, slender 

 and rather long, with the distal enlargement short and strong except 

 on the ventral rows; marked with twelve (dorsalmost) to twenty-two 

 (veiitralniost) pairs of pectinated plates which are closely appressed, 

 the longer proximal ones being finely divided, the distal becoming 

 shorter and nearly entire, the last very close to the accessory tooth; 

 smooth tip very short, ending in a short, strongly hooked, claw-like 

 tooth and an almost equally prominent and strong accessory tooth. 

 On II the neuropodials are much smaller and more slender and nearly 

 like the notopodials. 



Dorsum olive green, venter gray; prostomium purplish, a dorso- 

 lateral area overlooking the anterior eyes pale; tentacular cerato- 

 phores brown, the base of the lateral styles also brown; palps and 

 tentacular cirri unpigmented; lips and facial ridge slightly brown or 

 colorless; parapodia uncolored; notocirrostyles with basal half brown, 

 sometimes marked by a white ring, and distal half also white; neuro- 

 cirrostyles brown with white tip and often a white ring or spot above 

 base. 



Stations 4,452 (type), Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Light, 49-50 

 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,460, same, 55-167 fathoms, 

 green mud, gravel. 

 Harmothoe triannulata sp. dov. PI. XXIX, figs. 18-22. 



A species of neat and trim appearance, more slender than H. imbri- 

 cata, about as depressed as that species and on the whole resembling 

 it. The four known specimens are all small, the largest being 17 mm. 

 long; the tpye is 12 mm. long; maximum width of body 1.4 mm.; 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



between tips of parapodia 3 mm. and between tips of seta3 4.8 mm. 

 Number of segments 39. 



Prostomium (Pi. XXIX, fig. 18) small, depressed, the frontal slope 

 slight and nearly plain, divided for nearly the entire length by a median 

 dorsal furrow; width slightly exceeding length, greatest in posterior 

 half, anterior to that contracted and narrowed into cephalic peaks, 

 which are prominent, acute and widely divergent and well separated 

 from the median ceratophore; anterior sinus broad and moderately 

 deep (about one-third prostomial length), continued by dorsal furrow 

 nearly to caudal border. Eyes black, conspicuous but not large; 

 the posterior dorsal and touching or nearly touching posterior border 

 of prostomium, their diameter one-eighth or one-ninth of prostomial 

 width; anterior pair on sides of prostomium behind middle, little 

 visible from above, looking laterad and slightly forward, in type but 

 little larger than posterior eyes but on other specimens one-fourth or 

 more larger in diameter. 



Median ceratophore (Pi. XXIX, fig. 18) arising in frontal sinus, short 

 and stout, its length not exceeding one-third prostomium and width 

 nearly equal, cask-shaped, scarcely reaching beyond peaks. Style 

 rather stout, not more than twice length of prostomium, basal two- 

 thirds subcylindrical with a very slight subterminal enlargement, 

 nearly the distal third coarsely filamentous; sensory cilia numerous, 

 nearly as long as diameter of style, with slightly bulbous tips. Cerato- 

 phores of lateral tentacles short and thick, situated far back so that 

 they are invisible from above, nearly meeting below median tentacle; 

 styles (fig. 18) less than one-half length of median style, subulate, the 

 base somewhat thickened but the distal half very slender and delicate; 

 sensory cilia scattered, much shorter than on median tentacle. Palps 

 (fig. 18) also arising far back, about three to three and one-half times 

 length of prostomium, rather slender, the base less than one-half 

 width of prostomium, gently tapered to near end, then abruptly 

 contracted into a short terminal filament, thickly covered with minute 

 globoid sensory cilia giving to it a brownish coloration. Facial ridge 

 short and narrow. 



Peristomial parapodia (PI. XXIX, fig. 18) achsetous, the tentacular 

 cirrophores not quite reaching level of cephalic peaks; styles exactly 

 like that of median tentacle except that they are slightly more slender; 

 the dorsal equal to median tentacle, the ventral slightly shorter but 

 with the filament relatively longer. Mouth with the usual full, 

 pouting lips. 



Body rather deep, the segments well differentiated and of remark- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ably uniform width to near the caudal end where they taper rapidly 

 into the minute pygidium. Neural furrow and lateral ridges little 

 marked but the ventral field as a whole prominent and very smooth; 

 the dorsal surface very little cross-furrowed. Nephridial papillae 

 begin at VI but are very minute and inconspicuous throughout, 

 often pigmented. Anal cirri similar to notocirri but longer, equal to 

 greatest width of body and parapodia without setae. Elytrophores 

 small and prominently elevated, with constricted pedicle and circular 

 bearing surface; because of their whiteness in a brown background 

 they are very conspicuous; fifteen pairs with the usual arrangement. 

 Parapodia (Pi. XXIX. fig. 19) rather short and small, little com- 

 pressed, their basal depth much less than the depth of the body and 

 their length nowhere exceeding by more than a trifle one-half the width 

 of the segments ; posterior parapodia not relatively longer than others. 

 Notopodia little prominent, flattened lobes prolonged into a short, 

 blunt, postsetal, acicular process. Xeuropodium much larger but 

 short and abruptly truncated, the nearly square or very broadly 

 rounded postsetal lip merging with the presetal lip at the dorsal 

 margin; the presetal lip prolonged from the dorsal margin into the 

 short, broad, blunt acicular lobe, which bears a minute finger-like 

 cirrus above the projecting end of the aciculum. 



Notocirrophore (Pi. XXIX. fig. 19) slightly dorso-caudad of notopo- 

 dium, short, reaching not quite to base of notopodial acicular process; 

 base swollen, the rest cylindrical and rather strongly curved. Style 

 exactly like median tentacle, scarcely reaching tips of longest seta 1 

 and but little beyond median line, longer near caudal end, rather richly 

 provided with sensory cilia with bulbous ends and nearly as long as 

 diameter of style. Neurocirri (fig. 19) with small cirrophore posterior 

 to ventral border proximad of middle of neuropodium; style very 

 regularly subulate, slender, short, not reaching end of postsetal lip 

 at level of aciculum; no sensory cilia. Xeurocirrus of II two-thirds 

 as long as ventral tentacular cirrus. 



Acicula as usual single, straight, tapering, yellow styles, both 

 projecting freely from the ends of their respective acicular processes. 

 Neuropodial seta? in four supra-acicular and seven or eight subacicular 

 series, nearly colorless, rather stout, nearly equaling notopodials in 

 this respect; the shafts straight and distal enlargements (Pi. XXIX, 

 fig. 21) of moderate length, gently curved and tapered, with from 

 sixteen (ventral) to twenty-two (dorsal) pectinated plates on each 

 side which are deeply and finely divided, becoming prominent and 

 somewhat imbricated toward the distal end, which is smooth for a ■ 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



distance of about one and one-half to twice the diameter of the seta 

 and terminates in a slightly curved point and slender appressed acces- 

 sory process, which is absent from the ventral row or two. Notopo- 

 dial setse moderate in number, short, forming an inconspicuous de- 

 pressed whorl, short, very pale yellow, little stouter than neuropodials, 

 gently curved, with numerous, and close (3j to 3|- in space of diameter 

 of seta), rather conspicuous (especially on dorsal setse) transverse 

 pectinae leaving a rather long, blunt, smooth tip not less than the 

 diameter of the seta (PI. XXIX, fig. 22). Setse not elongated caudally. 



Elytra (PI. XXIX, fig. 20) completely covering dorsum of all but 

 five or six posterior segments, the first nearly circular, the others 

 broadly elliptical with a slight antero-marginal concavhy. Scar 

 antero-lateral of center. Except for a very small naked area at the 

 antero-medial margin the entire surface is studded with small horny 

 cones or blunt, rough tubercles which become somewhat larger latero- 

 caudad where the margin bears a sparse fringe of rather short cilia 

 with slightly bulbous ends, a few short ones of the same kind being 

 scattered over the surface back of the border. Along the margin 

 there is also usually one or a few small, soft papillae like those of H. 

 imbricata but usually ovate (though in one specimen they are rod- 

 shaped) and scattered over the entire surface posterior to the scar. 



Colors pale and delicate on these specimens, the dorsum generally 

 colorless or white, the median field quite unspotted anteriorly in the 

 proboscidial region but generally with a more or less evident trans- 

 versely elongated brown spot near the posterior margin of middle and 

 posterior segments. On each side of each segment is a somewhat 

 V-shaped brown spot, the apex of which covers the dorsal tubercles 

 and the anterior face of the elytrophores. On the most pigmented 

 segments two small brown spots may occur at the base of, but not on, 

 the cirrophores. On the exposed caudal segments these several spots 

 tend to merge. Parapodia, elytrophores, notocirrophores, neurocirri, 

 anal cirri and venter uncolored. Prostomium slightly purplish or 

 pink, probably brightly colored in life but not pigmented; eyes black. 

 Styles of median tentacle, tentacular cirri and notocirri white with 

 three pale brown but obvious bands at the base, the proximal and the 

 distal ends of the subterminal enlargement. Lateral tentacles, facial 

 ridge, nephridial papillae and lips pale brown; palps uncolored or 

 dusky. Elytra delicately blotched with somewhat irregular, con- 

 fluent pale brown spots on a colorless ground, the median and covered 

 portions and lateral border being free from pigment and the deepest 

 •coloration occurring over the point of attachment behind which is a 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



conspicuous small white spot from which the markings somewhat 

 radiate. 



Proboscis of one specimen (cotype) protruded nearly 3 mm., width 

 1.7 mm., cylindroid, depressed slightly, orifice with nine dorsal and 

 nine ventral prominent papillae. Jaws pale brown, the fangs large and 

 prominent, the ventral biting to right; cutting plates low and curved 

 caudo-laterad. 



There are four specimens, two from each station and three of them 

 are filled with nearly mature ova and sperm. 



This species is closely related to H. imbricata but differs obviously 

 in the much more posterior position of the anterior eyes, which are 

 placed more nearly as in H. crassicirrata. 



Stations 4,420 (cotype), off San Nicolas Island, 238 fathoms, hard 

 black mud; 4,431 (type and cotype), off Santa Rosa Island, 3S-41 

 fathoms, green mud, coarse sand and rocks. 



Harmothoe sp. ? 



A small specimen denuded of all cephalic appendages, cirri and 

 elytra. The seta- rather closely resemble those of Lagisca elizabethi 

 as figured by Mcintosh. It is possible that this may be the species 

 recorded by Treadwell in his paper on Polychaeta of Hawaiian waters 

 under the name of Harmothoe halmta. According to Treadwell's 

 account his specimens differ consideralby from Mcintosh's description. 



Station 4,463, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 48-111 fathoms, 

 rocky. 



Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson. 



Harmothoe hirsuta Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 3d Series, Zoology, Vol. 

 I, pp. 182, 183, figs. 27-29, 38 and 53. 



This species, originally described by Johnson from San Pedro, has 

 since been recorded by Ehlers from the coast of Chile, by Treadw r ell 

 from the vicinity of San Diego and by the writer from Alaska and 

 Paget Sound. Unfortunately the latter record is partly erroneous 

 owing to an apparently mistaken belief that marked changes take 

 place in the character of the scales and setae during growth. This 

 error is corrected under the heading of Eunoe barbata of which species 

 one of the Puget Sound specimens referred to in 1908 under the name 

 of H. hirsuta is the type. 



The elytra and setae are quite characteristic and agree closely with 

 Johnson's figures. Some of the marginal polygonal areas bearing the 

 large papillae may be ill-defined, the spines are often rough, bifid or 

 trifid and the cilia on the posterior are as long as those on the lateral. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



margin. Frequently the smooth tips of both notopodial and neuro- 

 podial seta? are even longer than indicated by Johnson's figures. The 

 accessory tooth of the latter is best developed on the dorsal rows and 

 frequently absent on the ventralmost two rows. The palpi are 

 slightly angulated by six raised longitudinal lines bearing cilia. One 

 of the most striking superficial characters of this species is the promi- 

 nence of the notopodial setae. 



Stations 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms, fine gray 

 sand; 4,496, Monterey Bay, off Santa Cruz Light, 10 fathoms, fine 

 gray sand, rocks. 



Harmothoe tenebricosa sp. nov. PI. XXIX, figs. 23-28. 



A rather broad and strongly depressed species with long, laterally 

 directed parapodia. The type, like one of the two largest specimens, 

 has 41 segments, is 35 mm. long and at somite X has a width of body 

 of 4 mm., between tips of parapodia of 9.5 mm. and between tips of 

 setae of 14 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XXIX, fig. 23) about one-fifth wider than long, 

 strongly arched above, sloping forward from the prominent posterior 

 region; greatest width near posterior end, the sides strongly convex; 

 anterior border depressed in middle, with a wide fissure from which a 

 furrow extends for a short distance caudad; at a distance from the 

 fissure equal to its width the blunt peaks rise rather abruptly and 

 project prominently forward freely above the bases of the palps and 

 lateral tentacles. (One specimen has the peaks retracted and little 

 prominent and another (sta. 4,528) has the prostomium less con- 

 tracted anteriorly and more quadrate in form.) Eyes totally wanting. 

 Frontal ridge and tubercle very conspicuous, mouth trilobate, sur- 

 rounded by very prominent protuberant furrowed lips. 



Ceratophore of median tentacle (fig. 2S) arising from frontal fissure, 

 cvlindroid, short, projecting only a little way beyond the peaks; 

 style less than three times length of prostomium, moderately slender 

 with a faintly indicated subterminal enlargement and a rather long, 

 slender subterminal filament. Ceratophores of lateral tentacles at 

 level of palps and partly covered by median tentacle, reaching nearly 

 to end of median ceratophore; styles scarcely longer than prostomium 

 the basal half or more tapered, the rest filamentous. Sensory papillae 

 absent or nearly so from all cephalic appendages. Palps slender, 

 regularly tapered, from three to five times length of prostomium 

 according to state of contraction or extension in different specimens ; 

 filamentous tip very short, no longitudinal ridges or lines of sensory 

 cilia. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Peristomium not distinct, its parapodia (PI. XXIX, fig. 23) elongated 

 and reaching beyond cephalic peaks, bearing on its medial face two 

 small setae beyond which the cirrophores diverge slightly; styles of 

 tentacular cirri similar to median tentacle, the dorsal about as long 

 as the latter, the ventral slightly shorter. Metastomial segments 

 depressed, with strongly marked neural furrow and muscular ridges 

 below; segments anterior to XX of nearly uniform width, posterior 

 to that tapering regularly to pygidium which has the usual form but 

 has lost its cirri. Nephridial papillae begin on VI, when fully developed 

 prominent, subcorneal, with enlarged base and tubular end directed 

 dorsad between bases of the feet. 



Parapodia (PI. XXIX, fig. 24) very prominent, fully as long as width 

 of segments bearing them on middle of body and exceeding this 

 caudally, in basal part dorsal and ventral borders nearly parallel; 

 rami well differentiated. Neuropodium compressed and expanded 

 into a large, obliquely-ovate, foliaceous, presetal lobe prolonged 

 slightly into a tongue-shaped process and including in its dorsal border 

 the acicular process and aciculum. Notopodium rather prominent, 

 with a constricted base and compressed free setigerous lobe, its ventral 

 part prolonged into a very long, slender, tapered, blunt-ended acicular 

 process which reaches nearly as far as the neuropodial acicular process 

 and bears no terminal cirrus. The foliaceous lobes are largely devel- 

 oped on middle somites but are reduced toward the ends of the body. 

 Posterior parapodia become more slender and elongated. 



Notocirrophores (Pi. XXIX, fig. 24) arise almost in contact with the 

 notopodia but slightly caudad and dorsad of them ; they are cylindroid 

 with enlarged bases and reach far beyond the notopodial setigerous 

 lobe. Styles slender, elongated, reaching far beyond tips of setae 

 or well beyond dorsal median line, tapered nearly regularly, with very 

 slight subterminal enlargement, to a long filamentous tip; a very 

 few small clavate sensory cilia scattered throughout their length. 

 Neurocirri with short, well-differentiated cirrophores and rather long, 

 regularly tapered styles reaching to the middle of the foliaceous 

 presetal lobes. 



Acicula single in each ramus, stout and brown at base, tapering to 

 slender, colorless tips which project freely, the notopodial from the 

 end of the acicular process, the neuropodial from behind the tip of 

 the presetal lobe. Notopodial setae (PL XXIX, figs. 27, 28) in an 

 irregular, slightly spreading tuft, moderately numerous, pale yellow, 

 rather stout, straight or slightly curved, tapered to blunt points and 

 practically smooth, the pectinations being nearly obsolete. Two 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



setae of this kind occur on the peristomial parapodium; and on pos- 

 terior parapodia the number is much reduced. Neuropodial setae 

 longer and more slender than in H. cceca and pale yellow or straw-color 

 instead of deep yellow. They are few in number, only from one to 

 three in each series and on middle somites usually only one or two 

 supra-acicular and six (or five) subacicular setae or series of two or 

 three setae. The shafts are nearly or quite as stout as the notopodial 

 setae and the long distal enlargements (fig. 25) arise gradually and are 

 never strongly developed but are longer than in E. cceca. They are 

 only slightly curved and taper gently to rather strongly hooked, acute 

 tips (fig. 26) provided with a prominent, slender and acute accessory 

 tooth which becomes progressively smaller on setae of the more ventral 

 rows and is often absent on the ventralmost. Transverse pectinations 

 are equally close and numerous and only slightly more marked than 

 in E. cceca. 



Elytrophores have the same arrangement as in E. cceca but are 

 rather smaller and more elevated. They are situated far out on the 

 parapodia. The dorsal tubercles (fig. 24) which alternate with the 

 elytrophores project very prominently and their free ends come nearly 

 into contact with the notocirrohores. Elytra have small areas of 

 attachment and are readily displaced, nearly all of them being loose in 

 the known specimens. They are nearly indistinguishable from those 

 of E. cceca but are somewhat more membraneous and delicate. They 

 lack marginal cilia and surface tubercles except for a single triangular 

 area of crowded small ones with its base at the hilum and apex at the 

 scar. The branching nerves radiating excentrically from the scar of 

 attachment are particularly large. 



Entire body pale yellow entirely lacking pigment; all cephalic 

 appendages, cirri and elytra quite colorless. 



Stations 4,400, north of San Diego, lat, 32°, 50 1 N., 118°, 03 1 W., 

 500-507 fathoms, green mud (type and cotype); 4,528, Monterey 

 Bay, Point Pinos Light, 545-800 fathoms, soft gray mud (cotype). 



This species resembles E. cceca in general appearance but differs in 

 many respects and especially in the longer and more slender neuro- 

 podial setae with accessory subterminal tooth. It departs in many 

 ways from the more typical species of Harmothoe, especially in the 

 structure of the parapodium. 

 Harmothoe (Evarne) fragilis sp. nov, PI. XXIX, figs. 29, 30; XXX, figs. 31-33. 



In general resembling Evarne impar Malmgren, moderately depressed, 

 greatest width far forward tapering regularly but only slightly caudad. 

 Length of type 19 mm.; maximum width (VII or VIII), 3 mm.; 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



between tips of parapodia about 5 mm., and between tips of seta\ 

 7.2 mm. Number of segments 37. 



Prostomium (PI. XXIX, fig. 29) as wide or slightly wider than long. 

 depressed, frontal slope moderate, divided by a median dorsal furrow 

 for most of length, the halves smoothly rounded; postocular region 

 somewhat contracted but concealed by a membraneous nuchal fold; 

 greatest width slightly anterior to middle and occupied by prominent 

 ocular swellings anterior to which is a rather abrupt constriction 

 sloping immediately into the peaks. Cephalic peaks usually rather 

 large and prominent, with steep medial slopes and blunt apices separated 

 from the median ceratophore by an internal not exceeding three- 

 fifths diameter of median sinus which reaches nearly to the center of 

 the prostomium and is continued into the dorsal furrow. Eyes two 

 pairs, both large and prominent, black; the posterior one-sixth to 

 one-eighth width of prostomium, facing nearly dorsad at posterior 

 lateral angle, separated from concealed caudal border of prostomium 

 by nearly their diameter and from each other by three to five times 

 their diameter ; anterior eyes one-fourth to one-sixth width of prosto- 

 mium, on sides of ocular swellings anterior to middle and seen from 

 above only through the tissues of the head, separated from posterior 

 eyes by one to one and one-quarter times the diameter of the latter. 

 Some specimens have the eyes even larger and they are always con- 

 spicuous although the anterior are little visible from above. 



Median ceratophore (Pi. XXIX, fig. 29) about one-half length of 

 prostomium but deeply inserted into sinus and scarcely reaching 

 beyond peaks; style unknown, missing from all specimens. Cerato- 

 phores of lateral tentacles cylindroid, fully half as long as median 

 ceratophore but owing to position well back on ventral face of pros- 

 tomium they are usually completely concealed in dorsal view by the 

 cephalic peaks; styles nearly three-fourths length of prostomium, 

 subulate, the distal one-third slender; sensory cilia elongated and 

 enlarged. Palps about three to three and one-half times prostomial 

 length, rather stout at base, where their diameter nearly equals one-half 

 width of prostomium, smooth or often annulated. tapered to a short 

 terminal filament and bearing a few lines of very small globoid sensory 

 cilia. Facial ridge moderately prominent, reaching into mouth, 

 which is surrounded by the usual prominent trifid lips. 



Peristomium obsolete above, its rather small parapodia bearing 

 a small tuft of notopodial setse and its cirrophores not quite reaching 

 level of prostomial peaks, largely concealed by notopodial setae of II 

 which spread over them; styles (PI. XXIX, fig. 29) unusually slender. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



elongated subulate with filamentous ends, without subterminal 

 enlargement and bearing filamentous sensory cilia with rounded ends 

 and as long as one-half diameter of style ; the dorsal twice, the ventral 

 one and three-fifth times length of prostomium. Metastomial seg- 

 ments separated by only obscure furrows; the dorsum little convex 

 and with scarcely noticeable transverse ridges ; elytrophores and dorsal 

 tubercles both low and inconspicuous. Venter very smooth; neural 

 furrow and lateral muscular ridges little developed except toward 

 caudal end. Xephridial papillae begin at VI, arising from well-marked, 

 rounded swellings at posterior base of parapodia, all small and directed 

 dorsad into interpodal clefts. Pygidium minute with dorsal anus 

 directed dorso-caudad and surrounded by a finely crenulated border. 

 Anal cirri missing from all specimens but judging from the size of 

 their scars of large size. 



Parapodia (PI. XXX, fig. 31) short, less than one-half width of 

 segments at anterior end and middle of type, longer toward caudal 

 end and throughout the length of some specimens but never prominent, 

 compressed, fully as deep as long, dorsal slope very steep, rami well 

 differentiated, not greatly unequal in size. Xeuropodium rather 

 slender, divided distally into a short, broad, truncate postsetal lobe 

 and a much longer, slender, compressed presetal lobe tapering to a 

 blunt end and 'including the acicular process which terminates in a 

 slender cirrus about two-thirds as long as the process. Xotopodium 

 relatively large, nearly as broad as setigerous portion of neuropodium 

 which it overlaps broadly from behind, bearing a long, slender, tapered 

 blunt, acicular process lacking a cirrus and reaching nearly to the 

 end of the neuropodial acicular process without its cirrus. Some 

 specimens have the parapodia studded with small spherical bodies 

 filled with a mass resembling spores which project from the surface 

 and which are probably parasitic in nature. 



Notocirrophores (Pi. XXX, fig. 31) situated closeto thenotopodia and 

 partly concealed behind their seta?, subcorneal with swollen base reach- 

 ing tip of notopodial acicular process; styles long and slender like 

 tentacular cirri, regularly tapered without subterminal enlargement, 

 bearing sparsely distributed slender cilia with globoid ends, many 

 of them as long as diameter of style, reaching about two-fifths of 

 length beyond tips of longest neuropodial seta? and to elytrophores of 

 opposite side. Neurocirri (fig. 31) arising behind middle of ventral 

 face of parapodia by a small cirrophore; styles subulate, slender, 

 reaching to base of acicular process or beyond, entirely lacking sensory 

 cilia or with a very few minute ovate ones. Xeurocirrus of II more than 

 twice length of others. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Acicula of the usual form, pale yellow, the acute ends projecting 

 freely. All setae pale yellow, all rather short and little spreading, 

 becoming very little longer caudad. Notosetae in a single ranked 

 whorl, this arrangement obscured by their being depressed. The 

 shortest and most curved are antero-medial and they increase in size 

 and become straight er laterad, caudad, mediad and back nearly to 

 starting point. They are much stouter than the neurosetse, many 

 being two and one-half to three times the diameter of the latter, more 

 or less curved and tapering to blunt tips (Fl. XXX, fig. 33); pectina- 

 tions extending over more than one-half of exposed portion, rather 

 prominent, very regular, two to two and one-half rows in distance of 

 greatest diameter, continuing nearly to tip leaving only a very short 

 and blunt point which is smooth or more or less scupltured or even 

 tufted. Neurosetse in vertical fan-shaped tufts directed nearly 

 laterad. They are numerous and crowded and appear to be in four 

 or five supra-acicular and eight or nine subacicular series. Nearly 

 colorless with long, slender, very slightly curved shafts; the distal 

 enlargements (PI. XXIX, fig. 30) rather prominent and long, gracefully 

 curved and tapered; the pectinated appendages rather long and in 

 face-views conspicuous, finely and deeply divided, rather widely 

 spaced, and not numerous, from sixteen in ventral to twenty-three 

 in dorsal series, the proximal ones small; smooth ends long, often 

 three to four times diameter of seta, with rather strongly hooked tips 

 below which on all except the ventralmost is a very slender, acute 

 accessory process reaching nearly to the main tooth. 



Elytra fifteen pairs having the usual arrangement. Very little is 

 known of them, few remaining with the specimens. So far as known 

 they are rather small and probably leave a portion of the dorsum 

 uncovered. The first is circular, the next two very deeply reniform 

 or broadly lunate (PI. XXX, fig. 32), the others ovate reniform with 

 a small and very excentric area of attachment. All known are soft 

 and semi-gelatinous or gelatino-membraneous in texture and the 

 dorsal surface is thickly studded with small conical or truncate rough- 

 ened spines or horny tubercles among which a few longer cilia are 

 scattered. Rather long cilia form a somewhat dense fringe along the 

 lateral margin. In addition each elytron bears along the posterior 

 margin, beyond which they project freely, several (4-7) large, recum- 

 bent, inflated, ovate, deep brown, soft papillae which are usually very 

 conspicuous and give to the elytron a very irregular outline. 



Entire middle field of dorsum between elytrophores deep chocolate 

 brown, rarely paler In-own, each segment marked by two delicate 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



transverse white lines which converge and meet on each side at the 

 dorsal tubercle or elytrophore. Parapodia, elytrophores, notocirri, 

 neurocirri, prostomium, palps, tentacular cirri, median ceratophore 

 and under parts unpigmented or (as preserved) white. Facial ridge, 

 paired lips and lateral ceratophores pale brown. Elytra translucent, 

 pale brown, the large papillae chocolate. The deep solid pigmentation 

 of the dorsum is very characteristic of this species among California 

 Polynoidae and very few examples fail to exhibit it. 



One small example has the proboscis protruded, 2.8 mm. long, about 

 1 mm. in diameter, subcylindrical, depressed at the orifice which is 

 surrounded by nine dorsal and nine ventral papillae. Jaws deep 

 brown, of the usual form, the fangs small, the cutting plates broad and 

 directed laterad. 



This species differs from Evarne sexdentata Marenzeller especially in 

 the character of the elytral papulation, the horny papillae in the latter 

 being pointed and often bifid, the soft papillae much smaller. The 

 setae differ but slightly. 



Although represented in the collection by a considerable number of 

 specimens this species is so fragile that not a single perfect example 

 is known. The type is one of two that have all segments and both of 

 these lack elytra and most of the cirri, etc. Not a single one possesses 

 the median tentacle or anal cirri and only eight elytra in all are 

 known. Most of the specimens are anterior ends of fifteen to 

 twenty segments without elytra or cirriform appendages. Another 

 source of imperfection is the frequency with which the parapodia 

 are cast off, some specimens being completely denuded for a consider- 

 able distance. There is some variation in the length and sculpturing 

 of the tips of the notopodial setae and in the length of the cephalic 

 peaks due to varying states of contraction. The only specimen con- 

 taining nearly mature ova was taken at station 4,418. Two specimens 

 were taken at stations 4,413 and 4,423; only one at each of the others. 



Stations 4,351, Point Loma Light, vicinity of San Diego, 423-488, 

 soft green mud; 4,400, lat, 32° 50 1 N., long. 118° 03 1 W., 500-507 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,402, off San Clemente Island, 542-599 fathoms, 

 green mud (cotype); 4,407, off Santa Catalina Island, 334-600 

 fathoms, gray sand and rocks; 4,413, off Santa Catalina Island, 

 152-162 fathoms, fine sand (type and cotype); 4,418, off Santa 

 Barbara Island, 238-310 fathoms, dark mud and sand (cotype); 

 4,421, off San Nicolas Island, 291-298 fathoms, gray mud and rock; 

 4,423, same, 216-339 fathoms, gray sand, black pebbles and shells; 

 4,430, off Santa Barbara Island, 197-281 fathoms, black sand, pebbles 

 and rocks; 4,436, off San Miguel Island, 264-271 fathoms, green mud. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Harmothoe (Evarne) foroipata v. Marenzeller. 



Evarne focipata, v. Marenzeller, Denksch. kaiserl. Akad. Wiss. Wien.Math.- 

 Nat. CI., Bd. LXXII, p. 573, Taf. II, fig. 7. 



The type of this species, taken off Eno-sima, Japan, at a depth of 

 200-480 meters, is only 12 mm. long. A similar specimen taken by 

 the Albatross at station 3,707 in Snruga Bay, Japan, in 1900 is in the 

 collection of this Academy. 



Much larger specimens, three 15 mm. long, one 27 mm. long and 

 one 36 mm. long, occur in the present collection. The neuropodial 

 setae are of very characteristic form and agree exactly with v. Maren- 

 zeller's figures; those of the ventralmost series, however, are much 

 smaller, very delicate, smooth and have simple acute tips. There 

 are two or three rather large seta? on the peristomal parapodia. The 

 cephalic peaks are very prominent and the anterior eyes nearly twice 

 as large as the posterior. On the first pair of scales the entire surface 

 is thickly studded with small conical points, on the others they are 

 confined to a broad curved marginal band projecting beyond the center 

 of the scale. Notocirri have rather fewer cilia than figured by Maren- 

 zeller. Nephridial papillae begin on VI and are directed upward 

 between the parapodia. 



Stations 4,401, south of San Clemente Island, lat. 32° 52 1 N., long. 

 118° 13 1 W., 448-468 fathoms, green mud, sand and rocks; 4.427, off 

 Santa Cruz Island, 447-510 fathoms, black mud, rocks; 4.429, same, 

 506-580 fathoms, green mud. 



Antinoe macrolepida Moore. 



Antinoe macrolepida Moore, Proe. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 190.5, pp. 538-541, 

 PI. XXV, figs. 21-23. 



The anterior end of a single specimen with the pectination of the 

 notopodial setse even finer than usual but quite typical in even' other 

 respect. When intact in the parapodia the distal halves of the neuro- 

 podial fascicles of setae have a distinct orange color. 



Station 4,523, Monterey Bay, Point Pinos Light, 75-108 fathoms, 

 soft dark mud. 



Antinoe anooulata sp. nov. PI. XXX, figs. 34-40. 



A fragile species which reaches a larger size than the average in this 

 family. All of the three specimens lack the caudal end, the type being 

 most complete. Form much depressed, with long parapodia and the 

 body strongly tapered from near the cephalic end. The type measures 

 36 mm. long; width at X, of body only 4 mm., between tips of para- 

 podia 11 mm., between tips of setae 14.3 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XXX. fig. 34) slightly longer than wide, the widest 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



region little more than one-third from the posterior end where the 

 sides swell out abruptly and prominently; from this point the sides 

 are nearly straight and converge rapidly to the anterior lobes which 

 are small and separated by a wide fissure occupied by the base of the 

 median tentacular ceratophore; cephalic peaks minute, well separated 

 from the median ceratophore and well above and free from the lateral 

 tentacles. Dorsum of prostomium very smooth, prominently elevated 

 posteriorly and sloping regularly to the peaks; median furrow very 

 slightly developed and no trace whatever of pigmented eyes. 



Median tentacle (Pi. XXX, fig. 34) with large ceratophore nearly or 

 quite one-half the length of the prostomium and rapidly tapered from 

 the broad base which is inserted for only a short distance into the 

 prostomium and united to its anterior lobes. Style slender, delicate, 

 flagelliform and regularly tapered to the end; scarcely twice length of 

 prostomium. Lateral tentacles arising from small, slightly tumid 

 ceratophores beneath peaks and at a level lower than the median 

 ceratophore; the styles small, about as long as median ceratophore, 

 subulate, tapering to slender tips. Palps slender and elongated, 

 nearly twice median tentacle, regularly tapered, smooth, terete, 

 longitudinally striated and terminated by a minute filament. Facial 

 ridge prominent, reaching to trifid mouth which is bounded by rugous 

 lips. All cephalic appendages thickly clothed with minute sensory 

 cilia which on the palpi are scarcely elevated above the surface. 



Peristomium obsolete except laterally where it is crowded far 

 forward in the form of parapodia bearing the tentacular cirrophores, 

 which reach the level of the prostomial peaks, and a small achaetous 

 acicular lobe. Styles of tentacular cirri resembling median tentacle, 

 smooth, slender, tapered, and lacking subterminal enlargements, the 

 dorsal about equalling, the ventral three-fourths as long as the median 

 tentacle. Body rather narrow and depressed, regularly tapered from 

 near the anterior end; below with prominent lateral muscular ridges 

 bounding a furrow in which is a prominent neural ridge. On the 

 dorsum each segment is marked with deep transverse depressions. 

 Nephridial papilhe begin on VI, arising from the sides of small eleva- 

 tion-; in the usual position; they soon become long tubes curved 

 upward and backward into the interpodal furrows. Pygidium un- 

 known. 



Parapodia (PI. XXX, fig. 35) very prominent, on anterior segments 

 quite equal to width of body, posteriorly still longer, projecting 

 strictly laterad, the base broad and compressed, the rami well-differ- 

 entiated. Notopodia rather prominent projections from the strongly 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



sloping face of the parapodia, convex dorsally, its ventral border 

 prolonged into a slender, tapered, acicular process from the extreme 

 end of which the tip of the single stout aciculum projects. Neuropodia 

 very large, sloping from both dorsal and ventral borders to a blunt 

 tip from which projects a blunt, stout acicular process bearing a 

 finger-like terminal cirrus beneath which the tip of the aciculum 

 appears. 



Notocirrophores arise immediately above and behind notopodia; 

 they are unusually long and slender and nearly equal the length of 

 the notopodium with its acicular process (fig. 35); styles also long 

 and slender, reaching beyond mid-dorsal line and fully one-third of 

 their length beyond tips of longest neuropodial setae, regularly tapered 

 to slender tips without subterminal enlargements and bearing a few 

 very short clavate sensory papillae. Neurocirri very small, arisinu 

 near middle of ventral face of parapodium and scarcely reaching to 

 ventralmost row of neuropodial setae, slender, tapered, subulate and 

 quite smooth. On somite II the rami are nearly equal and the neuro- 

 cirrus reaches nearly to the setae tips. 



Elytrophores low and inconspicuous, borne on somites II, IV, V, 

 VII and alternate segments to XXIII, XXVI, XXIX = 14, a fifteenth 

 on XXXII being probably normal. Dorsal tubercles, which alternate 

 with elytrophores, small but rising prominently above the level of the 

 dorsum, especially on anterior segments. Elytra very readily detached,, 

 large and completely covering dorsum, except the first, which is cir- 

 cular with central attachment, the others broadly ovate-reniform with 

 oval scar antero-mediad of center (PI. XXX, fig. 36). Texture soft 

 and membranous; to the naked eye surface appears smooth and 

 lacking cilia; under the microscope they exhibit an area of minute 

 tubercles between the scar and the anterior border, a slightly granular 

 surface elsewhere and a few minute cilia along the margin. The 

 nerves, branching and radiating from the scar, are conspicuous through 

 the translucent tissues. Many of the elytra are covered with a greenish- 

 yellow incrustation with oblique parallel streaking. 



Acicula single, deep yellow, of the usual stout, tapered form with 

 simple tips. Setae all pale straw-colored, long, forming prominent 

 tufts. Notopodials much stouter than neuropodials, the fascicles 

 forming whorled tufts directed more laterad than dorsad; the seta? 

 (PI. XXX, figs. 39, 40) very slightly curved, tapered to blunt-pointed, 

 smooth tips below which are very numerous close rows of teeth so 

 fine that they can be differentiated only under high magnification. 

 Somite I (peristomium) possesses two short setae of this type pro^ 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



jecting from below the tip of the aciculum. Neuropodial setae (P . 

 XXX, figs. 37 and 38) more numerous, arranged in three supra-acicular 

 and six or seven subacicular series. All much longer than the notopo- 

 dials but averaging only about one-third their diameter; the shafts 

 long and distal enlargements inconspicuous, slightly curved and tapered 

 to long, prominent but not especially slender smooth tips, below which 

 are narrow pectinations which become longer and more prominent 

 distad. Setae of the two dorsal rows (fig. 37 a ) are especially 

 slender, with the little enlarged pectinated regions taking up about 

 half of the exposed portion and bearing thirty-five or more pairs of 

 pectinse. Those of middle rows (fig. 37 6 ) are stouter and bear about 

 thirty pairs of pectinse of which the basal ones are mere striations, 

 the smooth tips being especially elongated. Setse of the ventralmost 

 row (fig. 37 c ) have much shorter distal regions with fewer pectinse and 

 very acute tips. Posteriorly all setse become longer and more slender. 



Except for a slight duskiness in places pigment appears to be wanting 

 but the cuticle exhibits a purplish iridescence. 



In the character of its setse this species departs somewhat from the 

 typical condition and approaches Eunoc. 



Stations 4,381, off North Coronado Island, vicinity of San Diego, 

 618-667 fathoms, green mud; 4,517, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos 

 Light, 750-766 fathoms, green mud and sand (type and cotype). 



Gattyana senta Moore. 



Gattyana senta Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 259-2G3, 

 PI. XIII, figs. 1-13. 



One specimen occurs in the collection from each of four stations and 

 two from a fifth. Most of the very characteristic and remarkably 

 protected elytra are in place; often they are blotched with brown;, 

 the marginal spines of posterior elytra have extremely long acute 

 prongs. As Treadwell states the nephridial papillse begin on VI but 

 the anterior ones are very small. 



A medium-sized example has the proboscis protruded. It measures 

 4.5 mm. long, 3.6 mm. deep at the middle and 2.4 mm. wide at the 

 end, being truncate subfusiform in shape, compressed at the base, 

 depressed at the aperture; Apertural papillse nine above and nine 

 below, rather long, blunt at the end. Jaws pale brown, of the usual 

 form, with fang and cutting plate, the ventral somewhat larger and 

 biting to right of upper. 



Stations 4,361, Point Loma Light, vicinity of San Diego, 91-97 

 fathoms, gray sand, mud and rock; 4,377, same, 127-299 fathoms, 

 green mud and sand; 4,420, off San Nicolas Island, 32-33 fathoms,. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



fine gray san( j ; 44^ Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 48-111 

 fathoms, rocky; 4,532, same, 30 fathoms, gray sand and rocks. 

 Nemidia inicrolepida sp. nov. PI. XXX, figs. 42-44; PL XXXI, figs. 45, 46. 



The single specimen known fortunately retains the full number 

 of segments and is a long, slender, depressed worm of very even width. 

 Number of segments 85; length 58 mm.; width at X, body only 2.5 

 mm., spread of parapodia 7.2 mm.; at L, body 2 mm., spread of para- 

 podia 6.8 mm. ; greatest depth about 2 mm. 



Prostomium (Pi. XXX, fig. 42) small, slightly wider than long, 

 greatest width a little behind the middle where the sides project 

 prominently; anterior to this point the sides are straight and con- 

 verge strongly to the minute peaks which lie very close to but free 

 from the median ceratophore; anterior fissure rather deep but com- 

 pletely filled by the median ceratophore which is soldered to the 

 prostomial lobes, not more than its distal third being free. Eyes 

 wanting. Median tentacle stout and swollen in the middle, com- 

 pletely filling cephalic sinus and coalesced with the prostomium, on 

 the dorsum of which it rises as a ridge, the distal third free. Style 

 short, about one and one-third times length of prostomium, rather 

 slender, the distal one-third tapering to a short filament. Lateral 

 tentacles (fig. 42) arising from short, thick ceratophores which are 

 united in the median line below the median ceratophore, at the sides 

 of which they are hugely exposed; styles short, rather stout and 

 subulate, tapering to very short terminal filaments, their length one- 

 half or less of median style. Palps (fig. 42) imperfect from sloughing 

 of their ends, rather snort, little exceeding twice head, thick, little 

 tapered till near end, terete and perfectly smooth, without sensory 

 cilia. 



Peristomial parapodia (PI. XXX, fig. 42) short and thick, diverging 

 above base of palps, supported by a single stout aciculum, the tip of 

 which appears in a dorso-median position; apparently achretous; 

 cirrophores united nearly to their ends; styles like median tentacle 

 and the dorsal of equal length, the ventral slightly shorter, both rather 

 stout, tapered to a short terminal filament and lacking sensory cilia. 



Body narrow, at wudest part only one-third of width between ends 

 of parapodia and posteriorly, where the parapodia are longer, much 

 less than that; tapering very gently and regularly caudad. Seg- 

 ments well defined, each bearing on the dorsum two prominent, 

 blunt, median papillae in tandem, all together forming a series which 

 becomes higher and more crowded posteriorly, finally constituting 

 an almost continuous serrated crest. On the ventral side the usual 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



neural furrow is bounded by low, smooth, lateral muscular ridges. 

 Nephridial papillae begin on VI in the usual position and soon become 

 prominent, strongly clavate, appendages having a length about one- 

 half the diameter of the foot and projecting freely ventro-latero- 

 caudad. Pygidium a short tube bearing a pair of cirri about as long 

 as the median tentacle but much more slender. 



Parapodia (Pi. XXX, fig. 43) long, directed strictly laterad and 

 enhancing the appearance of depression; posteriorly they are rela- 

 tively long so that the extreme width remains nearly uniform. Typical 

 parapodia are scarcely compressed, subcorneal in form, with the end 

 obliquely truncate. Rami very unequal, the notopodium a scarcely 

 differentiated process about halfway between the notocirrus and tip 

 of the neuropodium consisting chiefly of a rather short subcorneal 

 acicular process. Neuropodium large, little tapered, its obliquely 

 beveled end slightly compressed and divided into a low presetal lip, 

 slightly prolonged into a short acicular process surmounted by a short, 

 somewhat flattened supra-acicular cirrus, and an equalhy low post- 

 setal lip. On the first two parapodia the neuropodium is shorter 

 and the notopodium larger; at the caudal end this condition is reversed, 

 the neuropodium becoming very long and slender. 



Notocirrus (PI. XXX, fig. 43) arising from behind base of parapodium 

 far mediad of notopodium, its cirrophore short and stout, directed 

 nearly laterad, style moderately slender with the distal half tapering 

 to a terminal filament which reaches barely beyond the end of the 

 neuropodium and not nearly to the middle line ; it bears a few scattered, 

 short, clavate sensory cilia. Neurocirrus arising from a very low 

 cirrophore on ventral side of foot halfway between nephridial papilla 

 and ventral border of neuropodial setae bundle but is so short that its 

 tip fails to reach either; basal half thickened, tapered to a filamentous 

 distal third, bearing a few cilia like those on the notocirrus. 



Acicula of the usual character, the neuropodial especially stout 

 and the blunt tips of both projecting slightly. Seta 1 very imper- 

 fectly known, all except those on a few segments at the ends of the 

 body being broken off flush with the surface. Most of those remaining, 

 like the exposed tips of the acicula are encrusted with a reddish deposit. 

 The description necessarily refers to seta? at the ends of the body, those 

 of the middle segments being probably shorter and stouter. Noto- 

 podials a small tuft, colorless, very slender and capillary with close 

 fine serrations for nearly entire length. Neuropodials (PI. XXNI, 

 figs. 45 and 46) in moderate number, forming an obliquely vertical 

 fascicle not arranged in the usual horizontal series, colorless, all deli- 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



eate; when complete the distal thickening tapers into a long tenuous 

 tip armed with conspicuous pectinations. Very few setae possess tnis 

 tip, being broken off just beyond the thickening as shown in figure 

 46 but it is probable that the filament is normally present in all. 



Elytrophores on II, IV, V, VII, IX, XI. XIII, XV, XVII. XIX. 

 XXI, XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII = 15. All other metas- 

 tomial somites bear notocirri and dorsal tubercles. Elytrophores 

 are situated close to the posterior border of the base of the parapodia 

 and slightly mediad of the alternating notocirrophores. They are 

 very small and little elevated with depressed circular centers. Dorsal 

 tubercles are scarcely noticeable on anterior segments but rather 

 better developed behind the elytrophores region. 



Elytra (PI. XXX, fig. 44) rather firmly attached but so small that 

 they were at first overlooked altogether. They about equal the 

 antero-posterior diameter of the parapodia and because of their 

 posterior position slightly overlap the following foot and leave the 

 anterior portion of the one to which they are attached uncovered. 

 The lateral border reaches the lateral side of the notocirrus and the 

 mediae! border falls far short of the base of the parapodium, the body 

 being of course, entirely uncovered. They are not in the slightest 

 degree imbricated but are separated by a space equal to at least one- 

 half their own diameter. All are rather thick, firm and leathery, 

 circular or nearly so with the circular or elliptical scar close to the 

 anterior border; the cuticle thick and smooth, without trace of 

 surface or marginal cilia or papilla?; the interior finely granular and 

 opake. 



Extended proboscis 4.5 mm. long, 3.5 mm. wide at end; stout, 

 terete at base, somewhat depressed at end; seven blunt bifid papilla 1 

 above and seven below, the lateral pairs of most polynoids wanting. 

 Jaws rather thin, the median sutures obliterated, forming above and 

 below an entire transverse plate of a gray color thickened near middle 

 line by a pair of brown ridges that rise into very small points cor- 

 responding to the fangs of other polynoids. 



No color or pigmentation. 



Station 4,522, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 149-130 fathoms, 

 gray sand and shells (type only). 



Next follow the descriptions of four very imperfectly known blind 

 species described from very imperfect material. They are not very 

 closely related but owing to my doubts regarding their generic designa- 

 tion and my hesitation to establish any new genera that more complete 

 knowledge may show to be superfluous all are here provisionally placed 

 in the genus Polynoe. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Polynoe(?) remigata sp. nov. PI. XXXI, figs. 47-51. 



Described from a single incomplete and mutilated specimen having 

 18 setigerous segments and measuring 17 mm. long, with a maximum 

 body width of about 3 mm. and a width between setae tips of about 

 10 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XXXI, fig. 47) about one-third wider than long, 

 •consisting of two broadly pyriform smooth lobes with broad spheroidal 

 ends caudad, the anterior ends narrower but rounded, without dis- 

 tinct peaks. Anterior fissure deep, reaching to middle of prostomium 

 and continued to its posterior border by a narrow furrow. Pigmented 

 eyes totally absent. Median cerataphore arises near middle of head 

 and occupies anterior fissure, moderately stout and cylindroid; style 

 missing. A pair of small swellings below the anterior ends of the 

 cephalic lobes probably represent the bases of the lateral tentacles, 

 the rest of which is missing. Palps both present but the left only 

 perfect, rather small, their basal diameter not exceeding one-third 

 of the width and their length two and one-half times the length of 

 the prostomium, smooth, tapered, with no sensory cilia and no dis- 

 tinct terminal filament. 



Peristomium a short but quite distinct ring united to the median 

 furrow of the prostomium by a slight median fold. Its parapodia 

 (PI. XXXI, fig. 47) fail to reach anterior border of the prostomium, its 

 ceratophores distinct distally. All styles except the left peristomial 

 notocirrus, which has grown fast to the base of the palpus, lost. It 

 (fig. 47) is slightly longer than the palpus, has a slight subterminal 

 enlargement and a short but pronounced terminal filament and lacks 

 sensory cilia. 



Few parapodia are perfect. In the middle region (PI. XXXI, fig. 48) 

 they are little longer than the width of their segments, compressed 

 at the base, the rami well differentiated. Neuropodium elongated, 

 with nearly parallel borders terminated by a short, slightly convex 

 postsetal lip and a pointed presetal lip which is prolonged into a 

 slender, spine-like acicular process nearly the length of the free neuro- 

 podium and bearing a short terminal cirrus. Notopodium rather 

 large, more than half as long and half as deep as the neuropodium, 

 truncated conical; the ventral border prolonged into a straight, stiff, 

 slender, blunt-ended acicular process more than one-half the length 

 of that of the neuropodium. All notocirri and neurocirri lost ; notc- 

 cirrophores (fig. 48) very large (probably swollen in preservation), 

 well separated from notopodium. All elytra missing; elytrophores 

 borne on base of feet of somites II, IV, V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, XV and 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



XVII, high and prominent. Dorsal tubercles rather long and slender. 

 Nephridial papillae thick and very short. 



Acicula rather slender, of usual form. Notopodial setae very few, 

 usually three to six very closely appressed to acicular process, pale 

 yellow, slightly stouter than neuropodials, straight, blunt and with 

 the transverse lines of teeth extremely close, fine and numerous, 

 appearing under 500 diameters as scarcely discernible transverse 

 lines (PI. XXXI, fig. 49). Neuropodials (figs. 50 and 51) numerous, 

 forming dense rather long brushes, colorless and delicate, the ends 

 flattened but not much expanded, the marginal serrations very fine 

 and the point rather acute. Colorless. 



Station 4,407, off Santa Catalina Island, :!.!4-600 fathoms, gray 

 sand and rocks (type only). 



Polynoef?) fllamentosa Bp. nov. PI. XXXI, figs. 52-56. 



Known from a single imperfect and incomplete specimen consisting 

 of 24 setigerous segments, 17 mm. long, the body 2.5 mm. wide and 

 the width between seta tips 8.5 mm. Found with P. remigata and 

 somewhat resembling that species but with the body more slender 

 and the seta? quite different. 



Prostomium unknown, being much macerated and torn and all 

 cephalic appendages lost. No elytra are in place; elytrophores 

 rather small and elevated, farther out on parapodia than on P. remi- 

 gata; borne on the usual somites on the anterior region of the body. 

 Dorsal tubercles very long and slender, especially on posterior segments 

 on which they reach nearly to The ends of thenotocirrophores. Nephri- 

 dial tubercles very short and rather thick and truncated. 



Parapodia (PI. XXXI. fig. 52) closely similar to those of P. remigata, 

 the notopodium not so well separated, more conical and tapered and 

 the acicular process stouter at the base and also more tapered. Noto- 

 cirrophores arise above base of notopodium and are much smaller 

 than in P. remigata. A single style remaining on somite XVIII is 

 remarkable for its great length and tenuity, which may be enhanced 

 by abnormal stretching. It is more than one-half the entire length 

 of the worm or twice the total width of bod)- and parapodia, flagelli- 

 form without subterminal enlargement or sensory cilia. Neurocirri 

 (fig. 52) arise halfway between nephridial papilla? and end of ventral 

 border of neuropodium to which they reach ; they are slender and 

 uniformly tapered. 



Notopodial setae moderately numerous, forming somewhat promi- 

 nent radiating bundles. They are colorless, rather coarse (PI. XXXI, 

 fig. 54) nearly straight, tapering to acute points (fig. 53) and bear 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



rather conspicuous half-round ensheathing plates with entire or nearly 

 entire margins along one side. Neuropodial setae (fig. 55) are very 

 numerous and form dense brush-like bundles as in P. remigata but the 

 seta? are considerably stouter than the notopodials, with broad, paddle- 

 like distal expansions (fig. 56) having simple marginal serrations which 

 become rather coarse toward the subacute tip. 



The only pigment is a little of reddish brown color on the elytrophores. 

 Station 4,407, off Santa Catalina Island, 334-600 fathoms, gray sand 

 and rocks (type only). 



Polynoe(?) aciculata sp. nov. PI. XXXI, figs. 57 and 58. 



A single very imperfect specimen, with 18 setigerous segments and 

 measuring 9 mm. long and 7 mm. between the setae tips, represents 

 this species. 



Prostomium distorted, much contracted and bent dorsad by the 

 protruded proboscis. It is about twice as wide as long and deeply 

 divided by a median fissure into a pair of anteriorly divergent, rounded 

 lobes from between which a small cylindrical median ceratophore, 

 from which the style has been lost, arises. The lateral tentacles and 

 palps also are missing and there is no trace of pigmented eyes. A 

 single ventral tentacular cirrus remains and is a slender, tapered style 

 without subterminal thickening and about twice as long as the width 

 of the prostomium. 



The body is slightly depressed and somewhat fusiform, the segments 

 well defined and rather longer than usual, most of them being nearly 

 half as long as wide. Elytrophores on II, IV, V, and alternate seg- 

 ments to XVII, small, low, at base of parapodia and widely separated 

 from notopodial ramus. Dorsal tubercles very small slightly hooked 

 laterally, situated in line with elytrophores. Nephridial papillae 

 not obvious. 



Parapodia largely lost or injured and those remaining evidently 

 considerably retracted (PI. XXXI, fig. 57). Their length does not 

 exceed the width of the segments and they are strongly compressed 

 and about as deep as long, the rami very unequal. Neuropodium 

 with steep dorsal border and truncate end, the presetal lip of which is 

 produced into a long, stiff, acute, spine-like acicular process which 

 appears to lack a terminal cirrus. Notopodium a contracted achaetous 

 subcorneal tubercle prolonged into an acicular process similar to that 

 on the neuropodium and nearly as long, usually slightly curved. 



Notocirrophores (fig. 57) arising in contact with the notopodial 

 tubercle far out or parapodium, prominent and rather long; noto- 

 24 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



cirrostyles flagelliform, smooth, reaching beyond the tips of the 

 longest setae, only a few in place. No neurocirri remaining. 



Both acicula are rather stout, the distal ends being less attenuated 

 than usual and apparently not perforating the integument of their 

 processes; they are longitudinally striated throughout. No trace of 

 notopodial setae can be detected. Neuropodial setse are numerous 

 and form a dense silvery white, flat brush not divided into horizontal 

 series and nearly twice as long as the foot. They are straight, delicate 

 and colorless with slender shafts and thin expanded distal ends tapered 

 to blunt points. The margins are serrated with short, appressed teeth 

 which are rather course on dorsal setse (PI. XXXI, fig. 58), very fine 

 on those in the ventral part of the bundle. 



Proboscis clavate, strongly depressed distally, 4 mm. long, 2.2 mm. 

 broad and 1.3 mm. deep at distal end. Orifical papillae rather small, 

 nine above and nine below in close series. Jaws deep brown, hard; 

 the fangs prominent; the cutting plates rather small and directed 

 transversely, the ventral biting inside dorsal. 



The specimen is of a nearly uniform pea-green color quite probably 

 the result of staining. 



Station 4,352, off Point Loma Light, vicinity of San Diego, 549-5S5 

 fathoms, green mud (type only). 



Polynoe(?) renotubulata sp. nov. PI. XXXI, figs. 59-64. 



Known from the type only — a much mutilated specimen consisting 

 of 35 somites which measure 26 mm. long, with a width of body just 

 behind middle of piece of 3.6 mm., between ends of parapodia of 

 13 mm. and between tips of setae of 22 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XXXI. fig. 59) shaped much like that of Polynoe 

 longipedata Mcintosh but shorter, the length being about two-thirds 

 width, without the lateral ceratophores subrectangular; posterior 

 region constricted to form a sort of pedicle, anterior to which the 

 prostomium abruptly expands into a pair of opake hemispherical 

 prominences forming its widest part and corresponding to the ocular 

 lobes, within which the opake white bodies are probably modified 

 eyes lacking every trace of pigment. Anterior to these lobes the 

 prostomium is more translucent and tapers slightly into the lateral 

 ceratophores and anterior margin. There is no anterior sinus, 

 dorsal furrow or cephalic peaks. Median ceratophore arising on dorsal 

 surface posterior to middle, short, thick, its diameter more than one- 

 third width of prostomium; its free ends with a deep rim deficient 

 anteriorly and projecting at the sides as rounded lobes possibly cor- 

 responding to the tentacular scales referred to by Mcintosh in his 




1910.] - NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



description of P. longipedata. Ceratophores of lateral tentacles 

 cylindrical, continuous with the sides of the cephalic face of the pros- 

 tomium and separated by about their own diameter or more, then- 

 length about one-fourth of prostomium, projecting straight forward; 

 styles three times length of prostomium without ceratophores. Palps 

 very large, stout at base where they very nearly equal width of pros- 

 tomium, length about six times prostomium, tapered to rather blunt 

 tips lacking a terminal filament; surface smooth and without raised 

 lines or sensory cilia. 



Peristomium little developed, concealed largely by prostomium, its 

 parapodia with large ceratophores and apparently achaetous. Styles 

 of tentacular cirri long, slender, and regularly tapered, the dorsal as 

 long as the palps, the ventral slightly shorter (PI. XXXI, fig. 59) . Body 

 generally subfusiform. Anterior segments narrow, those following 

 widening to middle of piece and decidedly depressed (partly the result 

 of injury), then tapering again to caudal end which terminates in a 

 small pygidium with dorsal anus from which the cirri have been lost. 

 Segments fairly well differentiated, smooth dorsally, the venter with 

 neural furrow and prominent neural ridge. Nephridial papillae 

 (PI. XXXI, fig. 60) very remarkable. They begin on VI, arising in the 

 usual position at the posterior base of the foot and directed dorsad 

 into the interpodal cleft. At first they are delicate and not longer 

 than the diameter of the foot but they rapidly increase in length imtil 

 at XIV they reach the end of the neuropodium and on following 

 segments extend considerably beyond it as far as the tip of its long 

 acicular process. They are very slender, tapering at the base and 

 filiform for most of their length. Posteriorly they become again 

 shorter. Just how these long papilla? are disposed in the living worm 

 is uncertain but several occupy the position shown by the dotted lines 

 in the figure, passing between the parapodia and in a groove along 

 the posterior face of the one to which they belong to end at the base of 

 the fascicle of neuropodial setae. Probably this is the normal position 

 but a larger number and especially some longer than the one figured 

 rise, as shown by the solid lines, like dorsal cirri above the parapodia 

 and back. Elytrophores and dorsal tubercles of moderate size but 

 most of them abnormally inflated, precluding an accurate description; 

 the former situated on II, IV, V and alternate segments to XXIII, 

 then on XXVI and XXVIII = 14. Owing to the mutilation of the 

 specimen this distribution cannot be affirmed with entire certainty 

 and it is probable that a fifteenth pair of small ones may exist on the 

 reduced segments at the caudal end. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Parapodia (PI. XXXI, fig. 60) remarkably elongated ; many have been 

 torn away or injured but a sufficient number remains to make evident 

 their noteworthy features. They are much longer than the width of 

 the segments to which they are attached, are compressed at the base 

 and tapered into the neuropodium which is slender with nearly parallel 

 dorsal and ventral borders, slightly compressed and subtruncate 

 distally, the presetal lip longer and somewhat pointed and prolonged 

 into a delicate, acicular process fully half as long as the ventral border 

 of the parapodium and tipped with a short, blunt cirrus overhanging 

 the projecting point of the aciculum. Notopodium scarcely separated 

 from neuropodium, its basal part a small, slightly inflated cone bearing 

 a small tuft of delicate capillary setae and prolonged into a delicate, 

 slightly curved, almost fiber-like acicular process as long as that of 

 the neuropodium. Above and proximad of the neuropodium is a 

 small notocirrophore and slightly further proximad the slight re- 

 developed connate dorsal tubercle alternating with the larger elytro- 

 phores. 



All notocirrostyles are lost but the appearance of the cirrophores 

 indicates that they are quite small and perhaps rudimentary and it 

 may be that the nephridial papillae assume some of their functions. 

 Neurocirri (PI. XXXI, fig. 60) arise from slight cirrophores proximad 

 of the middle of ventral border of parapodia, somewhat inflated 

 (perhaps abnormally) at the base and tapered to delicate tips which 

 reach the base of the nephridial papilla but fall considerably short of 

 the ends of the neuropodia. Anteriorly they are relatively larger 

 and the large cirrophore of II indicates that the lost style is of large 

 size. 



Acicula single in each ramus, yellow tinted, much prolonged into 

 delicate, fragile ends which reach to the ends of the acicular processes 

 enveloped in a thin integument beyond which the tip of the neuro- 

 podial alone projects. Notopodial setae a small tuft of very delicate, 

 smooth and long fibers. Neuropodials (PI. XXXI, figs. 62-64) form a 

 long and dense, flattened, brush-like fascicle projecting conspicuously 

 laterad and slightly dorsad. They are nearly colorless, vitreous and 

 have a fine satiny luster. The shafts are long and delicate, the distal 

 expansions relatively short but very broad and oar-like, gradually 

 widening to near the end and then rather abruptly tapered to a bifid 

 tip (fig. 63); marginal serrations are slightly developed along the 

 convex border ^ longest at the point of greatest width and becoming 

 obsolete toward the tip. 



A single elytron (PI. XXXI, fig. 61) only — the first one of the left side 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



— is known. It is attached to II and covers most of the prostomium 

 and immediately adjacent region. It is irregularly orbicular with 

 a very small subcircular scar of attachment, remarkably thick, soft 

 and of cushiony texture, the outer surface and borders everywhere 

 thickly covered with peculiar large, soft hemispherical or dome-shaped 

 soft papilla?, each bearing at its summit a single coarse filament or 

 cilium. Postero-laterally these become larger and frequently con- 

 fluent in twos and threes to form bilobed of trilobed papillae. 



The specimen is entirely unpigmented ; the cuticle is thin and the 

 tissues delicate and translucent with large nerves visible through it. 

 In many places the tissues are more or less inflated. These appear- 

 ances call to mind the conditions of the similarly abyssal Laetmonice. 



This species is closely related to the imperfectly known Polynoe 

 (Adametella) longipedata Mcintosh from the North Atlantic, but the 

 latter has stout notopodial setae peculiarly bifid at the tips. 



Station 4,397, off Santa Catalina Islands, lat. 33° 43' N., long. 117° 

 42' W., 2,196-2,228 fathoms, gray mud (type only). 



APHRODITID^E. 



The type genus abounds in this region, being represented in the 

 collection by five species, two of which are evidently abundant. They 

 vary in size from the little aberrant A. parva, sometimes less than 

 ten millemeters in length to huge bulky specimens of A. japonica 

 seven inches in length and nearly three inches wide. Three of the 

 species have not been described previously. Less common is Laetmo- 

 nice, represented by two species, one of which (L. producta ivyvillei) 

 occurs at the greatest depth (2,228 fathoms) at which Polychaeta were 

 taken by this expedition. 



Aphrodita armifera sp. nov. PI. XXXI, figs. 65, 66; PL XXXII, figs. 67-75. 



This very noteworthy species is represented by a single specimen. 

 From broad ovate, the anterior end broadly rounded, the greatest 

 width at XV, which is the middle of the length, the width rapidly 

 reduced after XXI, and segments after XXVII forming a slender 

 attenuated caudal region. Moderately depressed, the dorsum less 

 arched than in many species and covered with a thin, clean layer of 

 felt fibers at the sides of which the great lustrous brown spines are 

 quite uncovered and rise over the back much as in a Hermione, the 

 largest ones meeting or nearly meeting in the middle line. 



Prostomium (PI. XXXII, fig. 67), deep sunken between the parapodia 

 of I and II and completely concealed by the elytra and felt, regularly 

 ellipsoidal, the width about one and one-third times the length; 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



posterior margin subtruncate and united to the peristomium by a 

 median nuchal fold, which is about one-fourth as wide as the prosto- 

 mium and slightly arched. Ocular peduncles small, hemispherical, 

 close together on anterior margin, the right bearing two small black 

 eye-specks, the left lacking them. Tentacle arising from frontal face 

 immediately below ocular prominences, bent downward, very short, 

 not more than one-fourth length of prostomium, consisting of a very 

 short ceratophore and a scarcely longer obpyriform style. Palpi 

 moderately long and slender, about six times length of prostomium 

 with a scarcely distinguishable basal segment, the cuticle smooth and 

 polished to the naked eye but bearing numerous very fine sensory 

 cilia just visible under a magnification of fifty diameters. Facial 

 caruncle a thin compressed plate with somewhat serrated free border, 

 covered with small round papillae, the ventral process ver} r short. 



Peristomium represented dorsally by a short transverse fold, ven- 

 trally by small anterior lips; its parapodia (fig. 67) reaching about 

 half their length in front of the prostomium. Tentacular cirri with 

 well-separated stout cirrophores. the styles long and slender, with 

 distinctly bulbous tips preceded by a constriction and slight subter- 

 minal enlargement ; the dorsal about one-half length of palps and 

 directed upward, the ventral slightly shorter than dorsal and directed 

 downward. Mouth bounded by the peristomium, somite II and 

 posteriorly by a broad, nearly smooth lip which divides III into a 

 pair of lateral swellings and reaches to IV. 



Metastomial segments indicated on the venter by transverse integu- 

 mental ridges on a nearly flat surface bounded laterally by a shallow' 

 trench along the bases of the parapodia and divided into a median 

 translucent neural third and lateral muscular thirds; cuticle thickly 

 studded with small globular papillae. Dorsally the segments are 

 ill-defined, without distinct bounding furrows and with thin integu- 

 ments and powerful lateral muscle ridges; cuticle thin and thickly 

 studded] with minute papillae (PI. XXXI, fig. 66). Pygidium slightly 

 cleft for the terminal anus which does not cut through several segments. 



Elytra fifteen pairs on II, IV, V and every alternate segment to 

 XXIII, then apparently on XXV, XXVIII and XXXI though the 

 last three are somewhat doubtful. They are of large size and are 

 broadly rubricated, completely covering the dorsum beneath the felt, 

 colorless, translucent without markings or incrustations of any kind, 

 soft and thin but tough and leathery. First three pairs elliptical 

 with major axis transverse; several following nearly circular with 

 attachment anterior to center; proceeding caudally they become 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



successively longer and the line of attachment, which extends from the 

 middle to the lateral margin, shifts to a more posterior position. 

 Those of the last pair are nearly three times as long as wide, tapered 

 posteriorly and are attached about one-fifth of their length from the 

 anterior end. They fold round the slender caudal region and reach 

 beyond the anus, the edges meeting to form a nearly complete tube. 



Owing to the rigidity of the dorsal spines and my desire to injure 

 them as little as possible the dorsal fimbriated organs were incom- 

 pletely studied. Apparently they begin on VI and occupy all cirrifer- 

 ous somites as far as XXVIII, occurring in the usual position near 

 the posterior border of the segments at the level of the lateral border 

 of the elytrophore. They are small and thin, compressed and deeply 

 fimbriated, the middle ones bearing seven to nine rather long, simple 

 or bifid cirriform papilla? (PI. XXXI, fig. 65). 



Parapodia of the usual form, biramous. Neuropodium stout, 

 supported by a single very stout aciculum, truncate, rough and at the 

 end stepped for the three series of setae, the surface, except dorsallv 

 densely covered with spherical papillae of various sizes but averaging 

 larger than those on the ventral surface of the segments. Notopodium 

 a low, thick ridge prolonged to the dorsum. Neurocirrus arising from 

 a low cirrophore located somewhat distad of the middle of the neuro- 

 podium and covered with crowded spherical papillae of the largest size ; 

 style smooth, rather slender, tapered to a slightly bulbous tip which 

 reaches to about base of middle series of setae. Notocirrus with large 

 cylindroid cirrophore arising just behind the ventral fascicle of noto- 

 podial setae; style reaching to about tip of second largest spine of this 

 group, slender, smooth, tapered to a distinct subterminal enlargement 

 beyond which is a constriction and terminal ball. Peristomial para- 

 podia (PI. XXXII, fig. 67) small, slender and directed forward, sup- 

 ported by a single aciculum which terminates in the somewhat enlarged 

 end bearing three dense tufts of fine capillary setae. At the caudal end 

 both rami become free and prolonged laterally and the notopodium 

 lamelliform with a prominent acicular process, while the notocirri are 

 relatively longer with very conspicuous terminal bulbs. 



Neuropodial setae in the usual three horizontal series. On middle 

 segments the ventral series consists of five or six equal, brownish 

 yellow, rather slender and slightly curved setae, the end (Pi. XXXII, 

 figs. 72 and 73) enlarged, tapered to a slightly hooked, acute tip and 

 usually bearing a pair of small spurs and a few scattered tubercles. 

 Middle series of three, brown, becoming stouter caudad, all smooth, 

 gently curved, tapered without evident enlargement (fig. 71). Dorsal 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



series usually of two stouter, deep glistening brown, nearly straight 

 spines (fig. 70). All middle neuropodial seta? are quite free from hairs 

 and nearly or quite smooth. Toward the caudal end they become 

 gradually elongated with increasing asperities and finally pale-yellow 

 subcapillary seta? roughened with numerous short spines more or less 

 regularly alternating on the two sides (fig. 75). The usual dense 

 fascicle of pinnate seta? replaces the ventral neuropodials on II. In 

 this species, so far as can be determined from a single specimen the 

 spiral pennon is less developed than on the other species (fig. 74). 



Notopodial seta? consist of stout, fragile spines and flexible fibers. 

 The former (PI. XXXII. fig. 68) are deep lustrous brown and form a 

 conspicuous bristling armature penetrating the felt at the sides and pro- 

 tecting the sides and dorsum of the body for its entire length. They are 

 more or less flattened, slightly curved near the base, then straight, very 

 rigid and tapered to subacute points. The core is striated longitudinally 

 and here and there fractured transversely and the hard outer shell is 

 roughened by numerous small tubercles which increase in size toward 

 the distal end until they are just visible under a magnification of four 

 or five diameters (fig. 67). These spines are arranged in a dorsal and 

 a ventral group on each segment. Ventral on middle segments of 

 nine to eleven arranged in a vertical series and rapidly increasing in 

 size from below dorsad, the most dorsal many times larger than the 

 most ventral and more recumbent on the felt. Posteriorly they 

 become longer and more recumbent and anteriorly shorter and more 

 erect. Dor^a,! fascicles usually consist of two small oblique rows of 

 five or six but on elytrophorous segments may be limited to a single 

 somewhat longer row. These increase in size postero-caudad, the 

 last of each series being much flattened and very long so that they 

 cross those of the opposite side in an abattis-like arrangement. Ante- 

 riorly they are short, more erect and do not cross. At the extreme 

 caudal end they become quite slender. 



Fibers arise as usual in three tufts, the dorsal felt being formed by 

 the intermediate tufts on all parapodia and by the larger dorsal tufts 

 on elytrophorous segments only. They are exceedingly long and fine 

 with peculiarly hooked tips and interlace to form the even but rather 

 thin layer of felt which in this specimen is free from silt. The ventral 

 or lateral tuft consists of much shorter, coarser, roughened fibers with 

 straight fine points which do not felt but hang in loose fringes behind 

 the parapodia. They correspond to the iridescent fibers of other 

 species but nearly lack this quality and are dull gray and more or less 

 covered with silt. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



No color. Much affected with attached parasites which are often 

 arranged with remarkable symmetry on the dorsal side. 



Station 4,557, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light-house, 28-40 

 fathoms, rocky. 



In general appearance this species resembles Aphrodita (Lcetmonice) 

 aphroditiodes (Mcintosh) but the seta' differ and the palpi are much 

 stouter. The most striking characteristics are the formidable rows of 

 long, stout, lustrous, brown spines which posteriorly meet over the 

 back, and the entire absence of brilliantly iridescent lateral fringes. 



Aphrodita japonica v. Marenzeller. 



Aphrodita japanica v. Marenzeller, Denks. K. Akad. Wissensch., Wien, 

 XLI (1879), pp. Ill and 112. 



This species has been reported already 3 from the dredgings of the 

 -'Albatross" as occurring on our coasts from the Gulf of Georgia to 

 Alaska. The Academy of Natural Sciences possesses two very large 

 and bulky specimens nearly seven inches long collected by Professor 

 Harold Heath in 12 fathoms at Pacific Grove, Monterey Bay, in 1897. 

 Professor Treadwell's remarks on the notopodial setae render it prob- 

 able that the species reported from Hawaiian waters 4 as A. echidna is 

 really this species. 



Aphrodita japonica occurs plentifully at numerous stations scattered 

 over the whole range of these investigations, the largest number 

 (twelve) being taken at station 4,436. The specimens vary from 28 

 mm. (sta. 4,322) to 155 mm. long and 70 mm. in extreme width between 

 tips of neuropodial spines (sta. 4,457). The seta? and other characters 

 agree exactly with the northern examples. The neuropodials increase 

 in number with age and the densely hairy tips of the young become 

 worn quite smooth on old .specimens. A characteristic of the species 

 — distinguishing it from related species with elongated hooked noto- 

 podial setae — is the slender, rather long, tapered median tentacular 

 style. This character, however, must be used with caution as the 

 style is sometimes lost or broken and in this condition may resemble 

 the short, clavate tentacles of other species. Marenzeller gives a good 

 figure. The lateral fringes are dull reddish but detached tufts of the 

 dorsal felt often exhibit a dull green color. 



Stations 4,322, off Point La Jolla, vicinity of San Diego, 110-199 

 fathoms, green mud and shells; 4,325, same locality, 191-292 fathoms, 

 green mud and fine sand; 4,334, off Point Loma Light, vicinity of 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1908, p. 338. 



i Bull. U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, 1903, p. 1,157. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



San Diego, 525-541 fathoms, green mud and fine sand; 4,335, same 

 locality and bottom, 500-530 fathoms; 4,353, same region, 628-640 

 fathoms, green mud; 4,354, same locality and bottom, 646-650 

 fathoms; 4,358, same region, 167-191 fathoms, green mud; 4,432 

 and 4.433, off Santa Rosa Island, 243-272 fathoms, green mud; 4,435 

 and 4,436, off San Minguel Island, 264-287 fathoms, green mud; 

 4,452, off Point Pinos Light, Monterey Bay, 49-50 fathoms, green 

 mud and fine sand; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark green 

 mud: 4,464, same region, 51-36 fathoms, soft, dark gray mud; 4,482, 

 off Santa Cruz Light, Monterey Bay, 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud; 

 4,522, off Point Pinos Light, Monterey Bay, 130-149 fathoms, gray 

 sand and shells. 



With the exception of the last, at which a single specimen was taken,, 

 the bottom at all of these stations was muddy. Most of the specimens 

 are thickly covered with foreign matter and stained deep brown or 

 black. 



Aphrodita refulgida sp. nov. PI. XXXII, figs. 76-84. 



A species of the japonica-hamata group, so far as known of moderate 

 size and of smooth, neat appearance. Easily distinguished from 

 .4. castanea by the brilliant green lateral fibers, the attenuated ends- 

 of the neurosetae and the much less conspicuous notoseta?. Form more 

 broadly ovate than .4. castanea, only moderately depressed and with 

 regularly arched dorsum, caudal end attenuate. Length of type 

 36 mm.; maximum width (XV) of body 10.5 mm., between tips of 

 parapodia 18 mm., between tips of neuropodial seta? 24 mm.; total 

 width including lateral fibers when floating in water 29 nun. ; maximum 

 depth 11.5 mm. Number of segments 42, the last twelve very small 

 and forming a narrow caudal region concealed by the seta?. Cotypes 

 23 and 35 mm. long with 40 and 43 segments respectively. 



Prostomium (Pi. XXXII, fig. 78) subelliptical, nearly twice as wide as 

 long, smooth and strongly convex dorsally, the sides and front regu- 

 larly rounded, the posterior border truncate and nearly straight and 

 united to the short peristomium by a broad, convex median nuchal 

 isthmus about one-fourth the width of the prostomium, on each side 

 of which is a deep transverse furrow. Ocular peduncles hemispherical 

 prominences nearly in contact and projecting over the anterior face, 

 each bears two minute black eyes, one dorsal and one ventral. Median 

 tentacle arises from anterior face beneath ocular peduncles, about as. 

 long as prostomium, consisting of a short cylindrical ceratophore and 

 a slender tapered style about three times as long as the ceratophore, 

 its distal half colored yellow and terminal bulb minute. Palpi white,. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



the very short basal segment more than one-half the width of prosto- 

 mium, the rest regularly tapered, only moderately slender, about seven 

 times as long as the prostomium, with slender pointed tips and bearing 

 minute sensory cilia. Facial caruncle a rather prominent, nearly 

 smooth plate, very thin and strongly compressed between the bases 

 of the palpi but somewhat swollen above, terminating above mouth 

 in a short blunt papilla. In all the specimens this papilla is much 

 shorter than on most species. 



Peristomium a short transverse dorsal fold united to the prostomium 

 by the nuchal isthmus and forming the anterior lips ventrally. Peristo- 

 mial parapodia (PI. XXXII, fig. 78) much prolonged forward, reaching 

 beyond the prostomium fully twice its length, much compressed to near 

 the end which is expanded but not divided into rami; distal end re- 

 ceiving a dorsal aciculum only and bearing three dense flat tufts of 

 capillary seta?, one above the notocirrus, one above and distal to the 

 neurocirrus and the third ventral and much more proximal. Tentacular 

 cirri borne on distal end of medial face of peristomial parapodia. 

 Both consist of short ceratophores and slender tapered styles about 

 one-fifth as long as the palps and with scarcely developed terminal 

 bulb. Mouth bounded by peristomium and posteriorly by a long 

 quadrate lip that occupies the entire middle region of somites II and 

 III and cuts into IV. Anus a small dorsal slit with furrowed rim 

 cutting through the last 4 segments. 



Metastomial segments flat below, the boundary between segments 

 and parapodia clearly defined by a deep continuous trench. Segments 

 indicated by thick and deep transverse integumental folds; neural 

 area not sharply differentiated from muscular area. Cuticle thick 

 and opake on the venter, studded with spherical papillae, much smaller 

 and less crowded than on A. castanea, dorsally thinner and on the 

 body smooth with few and scattered minute conical, capped papillae 

 (Pi. XXXII, fig. 76) which become much more numerous on the bases 

 of the parapodia. 



Elytra fifteen pairs, borne on II, IV, V and alternate segments to 

 XXIII and then somewhat doubtfully on XXV, XXVIII and XXXI, 

 following which are eleven small segments tapering to the minute 

 pygidium. Elytra all large, widely imbricated and completely cover- 

 ing dorsum of body and head; they are thin, flexible and tough, 

 having the same form and mode of attachment as in A. castanea. 

 The last pair folded into a tube enclosing the caudal segments. Dorsal 

 fimbriated organs begin on VI and alternate with the elytra to XXX, 

 the last two pairs being rudimentary. The others are erect, compressed 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and hatchet-shaped with the crest-like border divided into six to eight 

 short, blunt processes sometimes flattened or even bifid (Pi. XXXII, 

 fig. 77). 



Parapodia prominent, the neuropodia of typical segments about 

 one-third width of segments, pointing straight laterad, stout, conical, 

 little tapered, truncate distally and stepped for the usual three series 

 of setae. Integument much wrinkled and studded on the sides and 

 venter with spherical papilla? much more widely separated than those 

 of A. castanea and smaller than those of A. armifera, but larger and 

 more crowded at the bases of the seta?. The aciculum projects slightly 

 from the dorsal step of the foot. Notopodium a low nub extended to 

 the dorsal surface. Neurocirrus arises postero-ventrally from a low 

 fold or ridge in place of a distinct ceratophore near middle of neuro- 

 podium; style acuminate, rather stout in basal half, slender and 

 tapered distally and terminated by a scarcely evident knob, smooth, 

 not quite reaching base of middle series of seta?. Notocirri spring 

 from stout cirrophores behind the lateral tuft of notopodial spines; 

 styles slender throughout and little tapered, a slight subterminal and 

 a scarcely evident terminal enlargement. They perforate the felt 

 and rise above it along with the lateral tufts of notopodial spines. 

 Anteriorly the parapodia are gradually reduced in size and directed 

 more and more forward, the first or peristomial being alluded to above. 

 Neurocirrus of II somewhat longer than the others and arising nearer 

 to the base of the foot which approximates the form of the first. 

 Posteriorly the parapodia become very small but slender and elongated 

 with the notopodium as well as the neuropodium projecting freely. They 

 bend ventrad and toward the middle, converting the venter of this 

 region into a groove closed posteriorly. The neurocirri become 

 relatively longer and the subterminal and terminal enlargements are 

 exaggerated. 



Dorsal felt an even, regular and near smooth investature covered 

 with a coating of mucous, silt and foreign particles of various kinds. 

 It is unusually thick and composed of very fine fibers arranged in two 

 layers, the inner thin, membrane-like and clean, the outer much thicker 

 and carrying much foreign matter. Penetrating its lateral parts 

 along the sides of the worm are the stout, brown, notopodial seta? in 

 two series and below these the beautiful flowing plumes — unusually 

 long and abundant — of iridescent seta? which glow with a fine golden- 

 green or in some lights, a blue-green metalic luster. Many of these 

 fibers curve upwards onto the felt, the fibers of which also are slightly 

 iridescent when clean. 




J 910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Neuropodial setae mostly concealed above by the felt, arranged 

 in the usual three series, the dorsal being stout and deep brown and 

 two or sometimes three in number, the middle paler, about half as 

 thick and four or five, the ventral yellowish brown and much more 

 slender and more numerous, ten being almost invariably present 

 on middle segments. As compared with most similar species setae of 

 all three series are long and slender and shaped more nearly like those 

 of A. Jiamata than any other species. All are nearly straight — those 

 ( >f the ventral series (Pi. XXXII, fig. 81c) most curved — perfectly smooth 

 with no trace of hairyness or tuberculatum and with a slight subter- 

 minal enlargement tapering to a slender acuminate tip, the last two 

 characters also much more accentuated on the ventral setae (figs. 81a-c). 



Notopodium bearing two series of large setae (PI. XXXII, figs. 79 and 

 80) the ventralmost or lateral arranged in a nearly vertical series of 

 six to eight which pass through the felt and then bend sharply dorsad 

 with their slender ends resting upon it. The dorsalmost group is 

 irregular and usually consists of six to eight setae more or less dis- 

 tinctly in two short rows which penetrate the felt obliquely and rest 

 upon it more or less concealed in the covering silt. All of these setae 

 are dull brown, soft of texture, longitudinally striated, quite without 

 surface asperities, stout and flat at the base and tapered to slender 

 ends with hooked tips. The apical sheaths sometimes present are 

 unusually long and are free of hairyness (fig. 80). Seta of the ventral 

 series are shorter and more abruptly tapered, the dorsal more gently 

 tapered and reaching beyond the middle of the body, increasing in 

 length from before backward. The capillary fibers have the usual 

 arrangement into dorsal, intermediate and ventral tufts. The former 

 are confined to elytrophorous segments and are very abundant, forming, 

 with the intermediate tuft, the dorsal felt, the individual fibers being- 

 very long and slender with hooked tips. The ventral tuft forms the 

 iridescent plumes and the fibers are short, coarser, somewhat rigid, 

 tapered to very fine straight points and are very smooth so that no 

 foreign matter adheres to them. 



Toward the head the arrangement of the notopodial setae becomes 

 simplified by the merging of the two groups of notopodial setae and 

 two groups of fibers. Neuropodial setae become longer and more slender 

 and on III and II, the ventral series is replaced by a dense patch of deli- 

 cate bipinnate setae (PI. XXXII, fig. 82). In this group the dorsalmost 

 setae are longest and coarsest and bear a short pennant-like tip. Pass- 

 ing toward the ventral side this tip increases in size at the expense of 

 the remainder of the setae and becomes spirally turned until on the 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April 



smaller ventral setae nearly the entire toothed portion consists of a 

 spiral of four to five and one-half turns. On I all setae are smooth 

 fiber-like capillaries. Toward the caudal end, the neuropodial spines 

 become more and more slender and acquire rather conspicuous spur- 

 like teeth, at first few and irregularly arranged and finally in two 

 regular series, extending for a long distance on the very slender and 

 much elongated setse (figs. 83 and 84). Notopodial spines become 

 more slender and lateral fibers coarser and in brush-like tufts. 



No natural color exists on the body but some parts are stained with 

 a yellowish incrustation. Numerous external parasites are attached 

 to the integuments of both dorsal and ventral surfaces. 



Stations 4,457, Monterey Bay, off Point Pinos Light, 40-46 fathoms, 

 dark green mud (2 cotypes); 4,464, same region, 36-51 fathoms, 

 soft gray mud (type). 



Aphrodita castanea sp. nov. PI. XXXII, figs. 85-97; PI. XXXIII, fig. 98. 



A species of the A. japonica group; narrowly ovate, tapered toward 

 both ends but the posterior much more slender and attenuated, strongly 

 depressed with a nearly flat dorsum and flat, sole-like venter; espe- 

 cially remarkable for the serried rows of numerous rich chestnut- 

 colored notopodial setae which cover the sides nearly completely. 

 The type is 48 mm. long; maximum width of body (at XIV) 14.5 

 mm., between ends of parapodia 22 mm., between tips of setae 31.5 

 mm. ; depth 10.5 mm. number of segments 4:!. 



Prostomium (Pi. XXXII, fig. 85) subglobate, nearly circular in outline 

 or slightly wider than long, slightly depressed, strongly convex above, 

 the ocular elevations prominent and hemispherical, in the position of 

 the prostomium of most of these specimens very little projecting 

 beyond the anterior margin, or even entirely dorsal so that both pairs 

 of eyes are visible from above. Eyes two pairs, minute, black, one 

 above or behind the other according to the degree of elevation of 

 the prostomium. Nuchal fold a sharply defined isthmus about one- 

 fourth as wide as the prostomium and sloping downward to the 

 transverse peristomial fold. Median tentacle arising from the frontal 

 face below the ocular peduncles, its ceratophore short, obconical and 

 about one-fourth to one-fifth the prostomial length, the style (about 

 15 examined) scarcely longer than ceratophore, strongly clavate, 

 bent into a V-shaped hook. Palpi with rather swollen bases, somewhat 

 obscurely separated as ceratophores ; styles four to six and one-half 

 times the length of the prostomium, moderately slender, regularly 

 tapered to acute tips, the cuticle smooth and polished, bearing numerous 

 delicate pointed cilia. Facial ridge very prominent, nearly as long as 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



the prostomium, the dorsal border somewhat inflated above the palpi, 

 the remainder compressed and terminating in front of mouth in a 

 slender, pendant, finger-like process studded with numerous pediculate 

 globular papillae. 



Peristomium forming a narrow transverse fold above connected with 

 the nuchal fold, below a rugous lip. Its parapodia (PI. XXXII, fig. 85) 

 strongly compressed and prolonged straight forward, more than half 

 its length beyond the prostomium, the distal end slightly expanded 

 and bearing three rather small tufts of capillary setae. Tentacular 

 cirri with short, rather stout cirriphores arising from the dorsum and 

 venter of the expanded distal end, the dorsal directed somewhat 

 upward, the ventral chiefly outward; styles moderately slender, 

 tapered, without distinct subterminal or terminal bulbs and without 

 cilia. Mouth a small opening bounded by furrowed lips, the posterior 

 lip a broad plate occupying the entire ventral area of II and III and 

 cutting somewhat into IV. 



Metastomial segments forming a flat ventral surface fairly well 

 separated from the parapodia by a lateral furrow and differentiated 

 by shallow transverse furrows. To the twenty-ninth the body is 

 nearly equally curved and tapered anteriorly and posteriorly ; posterior 

 to this the caudal region is slender and attenuated. Ventral integu- 

 ment thick and opake, so that the neural area, though constituting 

 a'xmt two-fifths of the width, is not clearly defined from the muscular 

 as in some species. Venter so thickly studded with spherical tubercles 

 that in many places they touch over large areas, especially on the 

 parapodia. On the dorsum the integument is thinner and translucent 

 and is rather sparsely studded with small bluntly-conical papillae 

 (PI. XXXII, fig. 87). Anus a short dorsal slit extending through the 

 last four segments. 



Elytra fifteen pairs, on II, IV, V, VII and alternate segments to 

 XXIII, XXVI, XXIX and XXXII, strongly imbricated, in general 

 nearly circular with a slight lateral notch from which the broad linear 

 attachment extends to the center. Posterior ones elongated with 

 anterior attachment, the last about twice as long as wide and folded 

 with its fellow into a tube reaching somewhat beyond the pygidium. 

 In texture they are somewhat firmer and thicker than on the other 

 species here noticed. 



Dorsal fimbriated organs begin on VI and occur on all cirriferous 

 somites to and including XXXI. The first is small and the last two 

 rudimentary. On middle segments they are unusually large. They 

 are of lappet-like form, produced freely on the medial side. Free 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



border bearing six or seven lobes most of which are again divided into 

 two or three finger-like papillae each with a terminal sense organ 

 (PL XXXII, fig. 86). 



Parapodia of the usual form, the neuropodia shorter and stouter 

 than in ^4. refulgida, terminating in the usual three step-like folds, 

 and on the ventral face thickly crowded with short pediceled globular 

 papillae, the largest of which occur at the bases of the setae. Neuro- 

 cirri arise at about middle of ventral face of neuropodia and reach 

 bases of middle series of setae. They are "slender, especially in the 

 distal half, and end in slightly bulbous tips. No sensory cilia on 

 style but a close cluster of somewhat enlarged spherical papillae round 

 the base. Notocirri project through the felt at the ventral border 

 of each lateral tuft of notopodial setae and curve freely dorsad and 

 caudad to a point about opposite the middle of the next succeeding 

 homologous tuft. They arise from large ceratophores and the styles 

 are slender with scarcely obvious subterminal enlargement or ter- 

 minal bulb and no sensory cilia. Notopodium a scarcely elevated 

 tuberosity receiving the end of a stout aciculum. Toward the ends 

 both rami become more prolonged, the neuropodium slender and the 

 notopodium compressed and somewhat spade-shaped. Peristomial 

 parapodium much prolonged forward and the rami united to the end, 

 the notopodium only retaining an aciculum and the setae though 

 differentiated into fascicles being all of one kind. Xeurocirrus of II 

 about twice as long as the others. Cirri of the much crowded caudal 

 parapodia, which approach each other ventrad, have exaggerated 

 subterminal and terminal thickenings and the notocirri are relatively 

 longer, neurocirri shorter than on middle segments. 



Dorsal felt covering somewhat thinner than on A. refulgida and not 

 distinctly differentiated into two layers, but continuous and of uniform 

 thickness; formed of a close web of fine dull gray fibers and coated 

 externally with silt. As noted above the notopodial setae are very 

 conspicuous and the neuropodial spines are freely exposed and project 

 prominently at the sides. Neuropodial setae in the usual three series, 

 medium sized specimens like the type having commonly two in the 

 dorsal, three or four in the middle and six to eight in the ventral 

 series. All are dark brown, the dorsal ones being especially deep and 

 exhibiting the most splendid bronzy reflections. Dorsal setae (Pi. 

 XXXII, fig. 92a) are nearly straight and retain but little hairyness. 

 Ventral ones (PI. XXXII, fig. 92c, and PL XXXIII, fig. 98) are about 

 one-fourth diameter of the dorsal, more curved, with distinctly enlarged 

 and densely pilose ends on which the hairs form a dense cushiony 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



brush often agglutinated into a kind of spur, in addition to which a 

 hirsute sheath may be present. Setae of the middle series (fig. 926) 

 are intermediate in character. Anteriorly on II and III the ventral 

 series is replaced by a dense tuft of several rows of small pin- 

 nate setae (Pi. XXXII, fig. 93) the longer dorsalmost of which 

 have the tips simply prolonged while on the ventral ones they become 

 spirally twisted, and increase in length at the expense of the strictly 

 pinnate region until the most ventral consist chiefly of a spiral of 

 two to two and one-half turns. Posteriorly all neuropodial setae 

 become slender, elongated and more or less spinous, the spines appear- 

 ing at first irregularly and in a restricted region and becoming more 

 regularly biserial and more widely distributed as the setae become 

 longer and more slender (figs. 94 and 95). 



Notopodial setae in the usual two fascicles; the ventral a vertical 

 series of fourteen to eighteen, visible above the felt on the medium- 

 sized type and cotypes (37-48 mm. long); dorsal fascicle arising in 

 two short parallel oblique series of six to eight each, or on elytro- 

 phorous segments sometimes in one series of about fifteen. In each 

 group they increase in size from below dorsally and one or two minute 

 ones may be concealed beneath the felt. Those of the ventral series 

 are bent rather abruptly caudad on to the felt and give an aspect of a 

 series of waves. At the base they are flattened and very stout and 

 taper rather rapidly into the slender ends. Otherwise they are like 

 those of the dorsal fascicle. Setae of the dorsal fascicle penetrate the 

 felt more obliquely, those on elytrophorous segments at a more dorsal 

 level than the others, and are consequently more recumbent on the 

 felt. They curve rather gently dorsad and at the same time taper 

 very gradually into the long slender ends which cross those of the 

 opposite side and on posterior segments often reach the opposite side 

 of the body. All of those setae have a chestnut or pale brown color, 

 are soft, flexible and friable, stout and compressed at the base and 

 taper more or less gently to the tip which is rather abruptly contracted 

 into a hard, pointed, strongly bent hook (Pi. XXXII, fig. 88). 

 They are finely striated longitudinally and the surface of the 

 convex side bears numerous small hard asperities (fig. 89). Pos- 

 teriorly they become more slender and anteriorly much shorter, 

 the former finally terminating in a more open hook and like 

 the lateral felt fibers becoming covered with sticky hairs (PI. 

 XXXII, fig. 96). Felt fibers arise in dense tufts immediately 

 above the dorsal notopodial setae on scale-bearing segments only and 

 spread horizontally in a tangled layer. A smaller tuft arises between 

 25 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the two fascicles of setae on all segments. The fibers are nearly or 

 quite colorless, smooth, very fine, long and of nearly uniform diameter 

 but taper to abruptly hooked tips (fig. 90). Lateral tufts of fibers 

 arising below the notopodial setae are rather sparse, not much longer 

 than the neuropodial setae and hang down between the parapodia. 

 They are much coarser than the felt fibers, especially at the base from 

 which they taper to fine straight tips (fig. 91). They are arranged in 

 regular rows like the large setae. Usually they are very heavily coated 

 with silt but when this is cleaned off they exhibit none of the brilliance 

 of color of many species and scarcely a trace of iridescence. The 

 somewhat roughened surface is covered with a fine hairiness which 

 many result from a mucous coat or the separation of the more super- 

 ficial constituent fibers (fig. 97). In any case this feature seems to 

 insure the adhesion of silt. 



No color other than the extraneous ferruginous incrustation. One 

 specimen dissected contained strings of large ova. None has the 

 proboscis protruded. 



Stations in Monterey Bay, 4,446, off Point Pinos Light-house, 

 52-59 fathoms, green mud ; 4,457, same locality, 40-46 fathoms, dark 

 green mud; 4,464, same locality, 36-51 fathoms, soft dark gray mud; 

 4,467, off Santa Cruz Light-house, 51-54 fathoms, soft dark green mud 

 (cotypes); 4,468, same locality, 51-309 fathoms, fine sand (cotypes); 

 4,481, same locality, 45-50 fathoms, hard sand; 4,482, same locality, 

 43-44 fathoms, soft green mud (type and cotypes) ; 4,485, same locality, 

 39-108 fathoms, soft green mud and sand; 4,550, off Point Pinos 

 Light-house, 50-57 fathoms, green mud and rocks. 



This plainly colored but handsome and very interesting species 

 is confined, so far as known, to the waters of Monterey Bay where 

 it appears to be quite plentiful, the collection yielding twenty-six 

 specimens. With the exception of one doubtful record of depth 

 (51-309 fathoms at station 4,467) it was taken practically exclusively 

 at depths varying little from fifty fathoms and chiefly on muddy 

 bottoms, though a few occurred on sand. 



Though resembling A. japonica, A. negligens and A. refulgida in 

 many respects and especially in the long, soft, hooked notopodial 

 setae, this species is easily distinguished from all of them by the large 

 number and rich chestnut color of these setae, and in addition from 

 A. japonica by having a short and clavate, tentacular style instead 

 of an elongated tapered one, and from A. refulgida by having densely 

 hairy instead of smooth neuropodial setae and instead of brilliant 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



lateral fringes only tufts of short brownish hair. A. negligens 5 is 

 undoubtedly its nearest all}' in the Pacific and the resemblance is 

 especially pronounced in young specimens of A. castanea in which the 

 lateral fascicles of notopodial setae tend to be erected, producing the 

 disordered effect that is so characteristic of the known examples of 

 A. negligens, but even specimens 19 mm. long have a greater number 

 of setae than full-grown ones (40-60 mm. long) of A. negligens. 



The examples in this collection vary from 16-74 mm. long and all 

 exhibit the characteristic flatness of the body, the color and prominence 

 of the notopodial setae. Both neuropodial and notopodial setae 

 increase in number with size of the animal. Specimens 16 mm. long 

 have six or seven ventral neuropodials, five to seven visible above the 

 felt besides smaller ones in ventral notopodial fascicles, and nine to 

 eleven in dorsal fascicles. In the ventral notopodial fascicles, in which 

 the increase is most noteworthy, specimens 19 mm. long have nine to ten 

 visible, 24 mm. long about eleven, 30 mm. long twelve or thirteen, 

 37 mm. long thirteen or fourteen, 47-50 mm. long fifteen to eighteen 

 • and 74 mm. long twenty on middle somites; the largest specimen has 

 nine or ten ventral neuropodials. There is also a marked change in 

 the character of the neuropodial setae, those of the youngest and small- 

 est specimens being always much more densely hairy as well as smaller. 

 The dorsal neuropodial setae of specimens 16-19 mm. long resemble 

 those of the ventral series of medium-sized specimens while the largest 

 example not only has the setae of the dorsal series exceedingly stout 

 and blunt, but those of the ventral series of middle segments have 

 through wear lost the apical brush of hairs and the slight terminal 

 curvature and consequently resemble the dorsal setae of medium-sized 

 specimens. There is no doubt that these changes progress with advanc- 

 ing age. 



As is usually true of Aphroditce numerous parasites are adherent 

 to the cuticle, especially of the larger specimens. 



Aphrodita parva Moore. 



Aphrodita parva Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, pp. 529-532, 

 PI. XXXIV, figs. 3-7. 



In the original account of this species, in comparing it with the 

 closely related A. intermedia Mcintosh it is stated that the latter is 

 15 mm. long. This should have been 5 mm., making the type of that 

 species smaller than the known specimens of A. parva. Until now the 

 latter is known only from the two types taken in the Gulf of Georgia. 



5 Re-examination of the notopodial setse of A . negligens shows that they are 

 often roughened precisely as are those of A. castanea. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Four specimens occur in the present collections and have extreme 

 lengths of 9-17 mm. They agree fully with the types. 



Stations 4,381 and 4,382, off south point of North Coronado Island, 

 vicinity of San Diego, 642-667 fathoms, green mud. 



Laetmonice producta wyvillei Mcintosh. 



L. producta wyvillei Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, Zool., Vol. XII, pp. 

 44, 45, PI. VII, fig. 3, IV A, figs. 9-11. 



This species is also recorded from Hawaiian waters .by Treadwell. 

 Mcintosh's specimens had eighteen pairs of elytra. The two in this 

 collection have only fifteen and sixteen pairs respectively with thirty- 

 nine setigerous segments. One of them is evidently regenerating 

 posteriorly. One specimen is much coated with silt. Villiform 

 papillae are chiefly limited to the oral region. 



The protruded proboscis of the larger example is 9 mm. long and 

 3 mm. in diameter, cylindroid. At the end, surrounding the orifice, 

 is a dense brush of fine papillae above and below, separated laterally 

 by a small rounded eminence with a small papillae below and one above 

 the lateral line. The fine papillae are really the fimbriated borders 

 of closely packed lamellae. No jaws. 



Station 4,397, off Santa Catalina Islands, Lat, 33° 10' 15" N., Long. 

 121° 42' 15" W., 2,196-2,228 fathoms, gray mud. 



Laetmonioe pellucida Moore. 



Lcetmatonice pellucida Moore, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1903, pp. 420-422, 

 PI. XXIII, figs. 19 and 20. 



These specimens agree fully with the types taken in Bering Sea. 

 They all have fifteen pairs of elytra which nearly or just meet medially 

 without overlapping. The ventral villiform papillae are confined to 

 the posterior lip. The specimens vary in length from 20 to 34 mm. and 

 several contain egg strings. Compared with L. producta wyvillei the 

 tubercles of the notopodial spines are much larger and the portion of 

 the neuropodial setae beyond the spur is shorter while the hairs are 

 nearly twice as long as in that species. 



Stations 4,353, 4,354, off Point Loma Light4iouse, vicinity of San 

 Diego, 628-650 fathoms, green mud; 4,382, south of North Coronado 

 Island, 642-666 fathoms, green mud; 4,389, off Point Loma, 639-671 

 fathoms, green mud and gray sand. 



SIGALEONID^EJ. 



Of the five species representing this family four are new to the 

 region and three have not been previously described. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Peitidice aspera Johnson. 



Peisidice aspera Johnson, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 3d Series, Zoologv, Vol. I, 

 pp. 184, 185, figs. 56-59, 63. 



One specimen has as many as twenty pairs of elytra. The setse 

 of the first setigerous parapodium (II) have very much longer appen- 

 dages than the others. 



Johnson's specimens were taken in Monterey Bay and the writer 

 has recorded the species from Alaska. Now reported only from, — 



Station 4,460, off Point Pinos Light, 55-167 fathoms, green mud and 

 gravel. 



Leanira alba sp. nov. PI. XXXIII, figs, 99-104. 



The type and only known specimen is an excellently preserved 

 anterior end of 52 fully-developed segments and a caudal regeneration 

 cone of 5 + segments. Length 58 mm.; greatest width (at XXX), 

 of body 3 mm., between tips of parapodia 6 mm., between tips of 

 seta? 7.5 mm. ; depth at XXX 3.5 mm. 



Prostomium (PI. XXXIII, fig. 99) about three-fourths as long as wide, 

 foreshortened pentagonal in shape, the posterior or basal side slightly 

 concave, postero-lateral pair of sides nearly straight, antero-lateral 

 slightly convex, meeting in a blunt, notched apex. No distinct eyes 

 but an obscure deep-seated pigment spot on each side of base of median 

 ceratophore. Median tentacle arising in a shallow depression on 

 dorsum immediately behind anterior border; ceratophore short but 

 distinct w T ith trace of aliform lamellae; style short, thick and stiff, its 

 length about equal to width of prostomium, stout fusiform at base, 

 tapering to a short thick filament like the handle of an Indian club. 

 Lateral tentacles coalesced at the base with the dorso-medial face of 

 the peristomial parapodia but more largely free than in Stenelais 

 tertiaglabra, similar to median tentacular style and reaching beyond 

 its end, basal two-thirds fusiform, distal third a thick filament, scarcely 

 covered by buccal or peristomial lamellae. Palpi flagelliform, exces- 

 sively slender and elongated, about thirteen or fourteen times as long 

 as the prostomium, very regularly tapered to subacute tips and 

 very smooth. The palpi are crowded away from the peristomium by 

 the inserted peristomial parapodia, with the ventral side of the base 

 of which they are united for a short distance. At the base they pass 

 through a loose sleeve formed by the partial union of two foliaceous 

 curved lamellae (fig. 99) which are united with the ventral face of the 

 parapodium and end in free truncate lobes bending round the palpus, 

 one on its medial ventral side being twice as long as the parapodium, 

 the other on the lateral side reaching scarcely beyond its end. A 

 low smooth facial ridge runs from the prostomium to the mouth. 




3S8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Prostomium not obvious from above, forming a pair of prominent 

 lateral lips below; parapodia produced straight forward (fig. 99). 

 coalesced with the lateral tentacles above and the palpi below, stout 

 and not much elongated, projecting little more than one-third of their 

 length beyond the prostomium and not at all beyond the parapodia 

 of II, supported by a single (notopodial) aciculum and bearing a small 

 tuft of long, very slender, finely hispid capillary seta\ Tentacular 

 cirri nearly in contact at their bases, separated by the small tuft of 

 setae only; the dorsal arising by a rather prominent cirrophore, the 

 style also rather stout, tapered, about two and one-half times as long 

 as the prostomium and obscurely moniliform or articulated distally; 

 ventral immediately beneath dorsal, apparently lacking a distinct 

 cirrophore, and the style only about one-third as long as the dorsal 

 but nearly as stout at the base. 



The general aspect of the body is remarkably like a Nepkthys, being 

 somewhat quadrate or prismatic with the dorsum slightly arched and 

 anteriorly finely cross-wrinkled, the ventral muscles forming a some- 

 what sole-like tract, the intersegmental furrows nearly obsolete, the 

 diameter nearly uniform but gently tapering caudad and the cuticle 

 very smooth with a delicate pearly luster. Only a small regenerating 

 pygidium is present and bears no cirri. 



Parapodia arise at a level slightly above the ventral sole and with 

 the exception of several at the cephalic end project directly laterad. 

 They are somewhat compressed and oblong, truncate distally where alone 

 the rami are differentiated. Taking XXV (PI. XXXIII. fig. 1006) as 

 typical the rami are of equal length or the notopodium slightly longer and 

 each supported by a single stout aciculum. The neuropodium is about 

 twice as deep as the notopodium, broad and nearly truncate at the 

 end but sloping gently and symmetrically dorsally and ventrally from 

 a slight elevation and shallow notch which receives the tip of the 

 straight aciculum. On the distal end are two tufts of finger-shaped or 

 fusiform stylodes, a supra-acicular of nine or ten arranged in two rows, 

 of which the posterior are nearly twice as long as the anterior and 

 nearly equal to the setae and a subacicular of four or five of various 

 lengths; a low entire presetal membrane passes vertically down the 

 anterior face. The setae are arranged in three curved series, a dorsal 

 anterior curving from the dorsum down the anterior face and slightly 

 caudad above the aciculum, partly enclosing the dorsal group of 

 stylodes, an antero-ventral beginning below and anterior to the 

 aciculum and curving round the ventral side of the ventral group of 

 stylodes, and a postero-intermediate which forms a postero-ventral 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



quadrant round the aciculum as a center. Frequently a fourth short 

 series is detached from the dorsal end of the antero-ventral series and 

 passes obliquely in part between the latter and the postero-interme- 

 diate series. Notopodium about half as deep as the neuropodium and 

 partly overlapping it behind, slightly compressed and with gently 

 curved outlines, the distal end divided into two short blunt lobes, the 

 ventralmost of which receives the tip of the curved aciculum while 

 from the furrow between arises the long rank of setse along a curved, 

 sickle-shaped line with stout anterior and much longer posterior limb 

 passing down the posterior face of the notopodium. Round the outer 

 face of the seta? is a series of seven or eight stylodes more slender than 

 those on the neuropodium, in addition to two or three more dorsal 

 detached ones and a very much larger one with constricted base and 

 widened middle attached immediately above the tip of the aciculum. 

 Dorsal to the parapodium is a deep and wide bay bounded dorsally 

 by the elevated and projecting elytrophore, from the overhanging 

 tip of which projects a minute blunt notocirrus (branchia). On this 

 and more anterior segments ctenidia are absent and the epidermis 

 of the supraparapodial bay is quite smooth. Neurocirrus arising 

 from a low cirrophore near base of neuropodium; style reaching 

 nearly to base of ventralmost setse, rather stout at base, tapered regu- 

 larly to an obscurely articulated end bearing a small rounded tubercle 

 on the dorsal side of the base. Other parapodia in the region differ 

 somewhat in the number and form of the stylodes which appear to be 

 somewhat caducous and contractile. 



Toward the cephalic end the entire foot becomes shorter, the noto- 

 cirrus disappears, the neurocirrus becomes short and stout and the 

 end of the notopodium turns round the tip of its aciculum and faces 

 dorsad, presenting a very characteristic rosette of stylodes from the 

 center of which springs a small whorl of capillary seta?. Beginning 

 at IV the parapodia bend successively more forward, that of II pressing 

 the peristomial parapodia closely and reaching to its end (PL XXXIII, 

 fig. 100a). Caudally of XXV the parapodia soon become relatively longer 

 and their stylodes more slender or extended ; near the end of the piece 

 the neurocirri are again shorter but continue slender. At about XXX 

 (XXIX in this specimen) slender stylodes appear in front of the antero- 

 dorsal setae of the neuropodium and three or four continue to be present 

 in this position to the end of the piece. At XXVII well-developed 

 ciliated pads or ctenidia appear in the dorsal bay and the notocirri 

 (branchia?) begin to become much larger, swollen, and ciliated. When 

 fully developed as on somite L (fig. 100c) they are very stout and hang 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



downward to nearly or quite touch the notopodium. Ctenidia (fig. 

 100c) form three long nearly continuous ciliated cushions, the ventral 

 occupying about the proximal two-thirds of the dorsum of the foot, 

 the intermediate nearly as long a space at the bottom of the bay, and 

 the dorsal a slightly shorter distance reaching nearly to the base of the 

 branchia. 



Elytrophores occur on II, IV, V and alternate somites to XXVII 

 and then on every somite. The first three are small, low and cylin- 

 droid and situated on the base of the parapodia; following ones soon 

 become more elevated, separated from the parapodia and provided 

 with ovoid scars and protruding lateral ends. At XXVII and beyond 

 they become still more prominent and tumid. Branchiae (notocirri) 

 occur on elytrophorous segments only and first appear as a minute 

 non-ciliated process on the overhanging end of the elytrophore at 

 XIII. They undergo little change to XXVII where they rather 

 abruptly become larger and ciliated and continue to increase in size 

 as above indicated. 



Elytra are easily detached and most of them lie loose in the bottle. 

 The first two are small and nearly circular with central attachment. 

 Those following (probably as far as XXV) are more or less rhomboid 

 or trapezoid (PI. XXXIII, fig. 101a) with rounded corners and slightly 

 concave or indented sides and the scar somewhat laterad of the center; 

 the others are irregularly narrowly ovate with the broad end laterad 

 and scar nearly central, a well-marked umbilicus and deep lateral 

 emargination, resulting in a somewhat trilobate outline (fig. 1016). 

 Apparently the dorsum is incompletely covered in the anterior region 

 but completely covered after XXVII, though the elytra cannot overlap 

 much medially. All elytra are soft, flexible, perfectly colorless, 

 smooth and free from cilia or definite papillae. Some of them (fig. 

 1016) exhibit one to three large, bleb-like elevations along the lateral 

 margins which may be, however, pathological. Internally they are 

 composed of a mass of vertical fibers among which the nerve fibers 

 and nerve cells and slender end organs may be seen. 



Acicula yellow; setse all colorless. Notopodial setae in a spreading 

 whorl arising along a long curved line which becomes more restricted 

 to the dorsum anteriorly. All are slender and capillary, some quite 

 smooth, others hispid with small stiff hairs arranged in oblique rings 

 or part rings toward the base of the setae (PI. XXXIII, fig. 104a) this 

 arrangement being gradually replaced in the middle region by one of 

 larger nearly opposite paired spines (fig. 1046) which gradually become 

 reduced and disappear, leaving a long and very delicate smooth tip. Such 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



setae are found in the dorsal part of the bundle, being most numerous and 

 widely distributed posteriorly and fewer and more restricted anteriorly 

 where the first four or five parapodia appear to bear only smooth 

 notopodial setae in the small fascicles. Neuropodial setae are mostly 

 semicompound with an imperfect articulation differentiating the pecu- 

 liarly canaliculated or camerated appendage which tapers to a delicate 

 attenuated tip (fig. 102). All three groups are made up of similar 

 setae except that those of the posterior series are smaller, and on 

 anterior segments the joint becomes obsolete on antero-dorsal setae. 

 On XXV and following parapodia one or two delicate setae with 

 alternating ensheathing plates and delicate very acute tips (fig. 103) 

 occur in the extreme posterior dorsal part of the anterior dorsal series. 



Station 4,354, off Point Loma, vicinity of San Diego, 646-650 

 fathoms, green mud. 



This is the first true Leanira that has been reported from the North 

 Pacific. Mcintosh described several species under this generic designa- 

 tion but as has been several times pointed out these were incorrectly 

 assigned and Willey has recently proposed the genus Sthenolepis for 

 them and related species. 



Sthenolepis areolata (Mcintosh) Willey. 



Leanira areolata Mcintosh, Challenger Reports, Zoology, Vol. XII, pp. 151— 

 153, PI. XXI, fig. 3. 



This species has been reported hitherto only from the Western 

 Pacific, having been described from Japanese waters by Mcintosh 

 and the writer. . It was taken south of Yedo in 345 fathoms and in 

 Sag ami Bay in 153-749 fathoms. 



Several examples in this collection agree perfectly with Mcintosh's 

 description and with the Japanese specimens examined by me. The 

 elytra exhibit a slight tendency toward a trilobate form and have a 

 few small blunt horny papillae not mentioned by Mcintosh scattered 

 over the surface. At about XXX the marginal fringe and lateral 

 areolation of the elytra become well marked. The peculiar elongated 

 notocirrus of III is well exhibited in these specimens and is a note- 

 worthy character of the genus. All of the specimens are broken and 

 incomplete, the longest having a length of 130 mm. and 112 segments. 



Stations 4,382, south of North Coronado Island, vicinity of San 

 Diego, 642-666 fathoms, green mud; 4,398, Lat. 32° 43' 20" N., Long. 

 117° 42' 10" W., 620 fathoms, green mud, rock; 4,518, off Point Pinos 

 Light-house, 66-140 fathoms, hard sand; 4,538, same region, 795- 

 871 fathoms, hard gray sand. 

 Sthenelanella uniformis gen. et. sp. nov. PI. XXXIII, figs. 105-112. 



A slender, little depressed species very gently tapered from somite 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



X. The only known specimen is a male filled with sperm represented 

 by the anterior 36 segments and measuring 11 mm. long and 2 mm. in 

 total width. 



Prostomium (PI. XXXIII, fig. 105) partly sunken into peristomium,its 

 profile nearly straight to ocular region where it bends downward rather 

 abruptly into the vertical anterior face; outline nearly circular, 

 truncate behind and slightly wider than long. Eyes black, two pairs, 

 situated close to median ceratophore, both visible from above, those 

 of each side nearly in contact and of the two sides separated by nearly 

 two-thirds of the prostomial width; the anterior pair at about the 

 level of the tentacular axis and twice the diameter of the posterior pair 

 which are dorsal. Median tentacle arising from a short ceratophore 

 not more than one-third of the length of the prostomium and dorso- 

 anterior in position; style about one and one-half times length of 

 prostomium, the basal two-thirds rather stout, the remainder rather 

 abruptly contracted into a filament with a slightly knobbed tip. 

 Tentacular lamellae thin, aliform, bilobed by a lateral notch, not longer 

 than ceratophore to which the medial border is broadily united. Lat- 

 eral tentacles united with dorso-median aspect of peristomial para- 

 podia, only their filamentous tips free, the rest concealed by the buccal 

 lamellae, to the lateral face of which they are united. Palpi arising 

 from distinct ceratophores appearing external to the peristomial 

 parapodia, the styles nearly flagelliform, slender and regularly tapered 

 to delicate tips, more than three times as long as the median tentacle. 

 All cephalic appendages lack cilia but are provided with a few regularly 

 arranged sensillae bearing minute sensory hairs projecting through 

 cuticular pores. 



Peristomium and its parapodia largely coalesced with venter of 

 prostomium, beyond which the latter project for half their length (Pi. 

 XXXIII, fig. 105), bearing at the distal end a dorsal and a ventral 

 tuft of capillary setae which spread anteriorly and cross in front of the 

 prostomium. Tentacular cirri with very short indistinct cirrophores, the 

 styles similar in form to the median tentacle, the dorsal nearly equal 

 to the latter, the ventral about two-thirds as long. Buccal or peris- 

 tomial lamella a thin curved plate attached to the medial side of the 

 peristomium and reaching slightly beyond its end. 



Metastomial segments rather well marked, except dorsally in the 

 pharyngeal region which is very smooth, about four or five times as 

 wide as long with well-marked ventral muscular ridges and between 

 them a neural groove. 



Parapodia strictly lateral, arising near ventral level, rather stout 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



and more strongly compressed than usual in the family. For the 

 most part they project strictly laterad and their length is two-fifths to 

 two-thirds the width of the somites. Though conspicuously biramous 

 the rami are closely united and the interamal cleft is little developed. 

 Neuropodium (PI. XXXIII, figs. 106 and 107) deep and compressed, 

 scarcely tapered, ending in a thick, obliquely truncate, notched acicular 

 process, surrounded above, behind and below by a perisetal fold, the pos- 

 terior part of which is well developed as a broad, deep, oblique mem- 

 brane with the margins entire, the dorsal and ventral portions being less 

 developed, discontinuous and bearing small marginal sensory papillae. 

 Notopodium (figs. 106 and 107) very much smaller than neuropodium 

 and slightly overlapping its posterior face, subcorneal or prolonged 

 mammilliform, receiving the tip of the aciculum in the apex and bearing 

 a spreading fascicle of setse. On the dorsal side of its base is a large 

 opake hemispherical swelling which bears the ventral ctenidium 

 except on anterior parapodia. 



Notocirrus rudimentary throughout length of piece — a minute papilla 

 (PI. XXXIII fig. 107) on the ventro-lateral part of a rather prominent 

 opake swelling representing the dorsal tubercle, ceratophore and elytro- 

 phore combined, on the ventral side of the projecting end of which is 

 a peculiar scale-like ensheathing lamina bearing a ciliated area proba- 

 bly representing the dorsal ctenidium. Between the dorsal process 

 and the parapodium is the usual deep bay. Ctenidia are slightly 

 developed and obvious on only certain parapodia. The dorsal and 

 ventral have already been mentioned ; the intermediate one (fig. 107) — 

 no better developed — occurs about midway between the others. Neuro- 

 cirri arise from near base of parapodium from a small cirrophore and 

 reach base of ventralmost seta?; basal half of style enlarged and with 

 a dorsal concavity, distal half slender and divided into three incom- 

 pletely differentiated subequal segments. First four parapodia 

 directed progressively more forward. On II and III the neurocirri 

 are longer, that of II reaching slightly beyond the end of its parapodia. 



Elytra borne on II, IV, V and alternate segments to at least XXI, 

 beyond which I am unable to distinguish which segments have borne 

 elytra. Only the first four pairs and the eleventh elytra are attached, 

 beside which there are a number of loose elytra in the bottle. Those in 

 place fail to meet medially, leaving a large part of the dorsum uncov- 

 ered and the eleventh pair is especially small, but all curve down the 

 sides quite to the parapodia. First pair circular, the next few oblong 

 with the medial end boldly rounded and the anterior border slightly 

 concave (Pi. XXXIII, fig. 108), the posterior ones nearly equal-sided 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



rhomboids with rounded corners. In all cases the scar of attachment is 

 slightly laterad of the center, and the lateral margin is peculiarly thick- 

 ened and upturned. The lateral margin of the first bears a close fringe 

 of short, thick, crowded papillae arranged in two or three rows ; succeeding 

 ones bear no papillae or only a few near the antero-lateral angle, while 

 those still farther back have an increased number partly of cylindroid ? 

 partly of clavate papillae each with an apical sense organ (fig. 109). 

 All elytra are of soft and delicate texture, especially the more posterior 

 which are colorless or exhibit faint traces of pigment. The first four 

 at least are rather heavily pigmented with a mosaic of polygonal, 

 chromatophores of slaty fuscous and orange brown forming a blotched 

 reticular pattern enclosing colorless areas, the brown abounding on 

 the periphery, the fuscous toward the center. On the first pair nearly 

 the entire surface is blotched, on the others only a broad oblique band 

 covering the postero-medial exposed parts, the lateral and covered 

 portions being quite colorless (fig. 108). t 



Acicula, which occur singly in each ramus, are stout, tapered, 

 straight and yellow. Setae colorless and translucent. Notopodials — 

 loose tufts curving dorsad — of long, very slender, soft, flexible capil- 

 laries, plumose with fine hairs alternating on the two sides and, toward 

 the base, where they become long and conspicuous, possibly arranged 

 spirally; they diminish in size and finally become obsolete distally, leav- 

 ing a long smooth fiber-like tip (PI. XXXIII, fig. 112). Xeuropodial 

 setae arranged in a modification of the horse-shoe-shaped fascicle of 

 Sthenelais tertiaglabra , the anterior gap becoming very large, the whole 

 fascicle much flattened antero-posteriorly and the ventral supple- 

 mentary series crowded against its ventral face; the result is practi- 

 cally a single vertical rank of setae with slight dorsal and ventral spurs. 

 These setae differ greatly from those typical of Sthenelais, all of the 

 appendages being short, simple-pointed and non-articulate. The 

 two or three in the dorsal spur have the slightly enlarged end of the 

 shaft roughened by two or three rows of small stiff hairs on each side 

 (a character that becomes less evident and probably disappears 

 posteriorly), and the appendages two or three times as long as the 

 diameter of the shaft, cigar-shaped with blunt tips and more pointed 

 bases (fig. 110). The remainder of the setae of the main series are 

 stouter, have the ends of the shafts quite smooth, the appendages 

 pointed, straight and conical and from one and one-half to twice the 

 diameter of the shafts (fig. Ilia). Setae of the ventral spur again 

 more slender with short somewhat claw-like appendages and smooth 

 shafts (fig. 1116). There is a general tendency for the appendages- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



to become longer and more curved anteriorly, while posteriorly many 

 of those in the middle part of the main series become imperfectly 

 coalesced with the shafts to form simple setae. Peristomial setae are 

 all of the notopodial-capillary type but the hairs are reduced to the 

 finest denticulations. 



Station unknown. Labeled "with yellow Doris 1 ' probably indi- 

 cating a commensal habit. 



In general aspect this species somewhat resembles Sthenelais fusca 

 Johnson but differs greatly in the character of the setae. Indeed, the 

 character of the setae is so unique that I feel compelled to separate 

 this species from typical Sthenelais, having a complex group of neuro- 

 podial setae most of which have distinct articulated appendages, as the 

 type of a distinct genus or subgenus Sthenelanella. 

 Sthenelais tertiaglabra sp. nov. PI. XXXIII, figs. 113-120. 



Based on two short anterior ends : a cotype consisting of 36 segments 

 from a slightly larger specimen and the type of 45 segments, measuring 

 22 mm. long, with a maximum body width of 1.3 mm., 2.5 mm. between 

 tips of parapodia and 3.1 mm. between tips of setae; depth about 1 mm. 



Prostomium (Pi. XXXIII, fig. 113) subcircular, somewhat wider than 

 long, with the sides bulging slightly toward the anterior end, slightly nar- 

 rowed behind and bearing a low protruberance on each side. Eyes two 

 pairs, black ; the dorsal larger, situated behind base of middle tentacle, 

 .separated by one-fourth or more width of prostomium; ventral pair 

 on frontal face immediately beneath tentacular lamellae, smaller and 

 somewhat closer together than dorsal pair. Median tentacle arising 

 between the four eyes by a stout ceratophore about three-fourths as 

 long as prostomium; style moderately slender, regularly tapered to a 

 .short faintly articulated filament terminating in a minute knob, the 

 cuticle unequally thickened and peculiarly crenulated or crinkled but 

 lacking sensory cilia. Antennal lamellae spoon-shaped, ovate, diverg- 

 ing wing-like from each side of base of ceratophore and nearly as long. 

 Lateral tentacles coalesced with dorso-medial face of peristomial 

 parapodia, the short free tip projecting beyond the end of the parapo- 

 dium to a distance of about one-half the length of the latter with the 

 end knobbed and slightly articulated. Like the median tentacles 

 these lack large sensory cilia but are provided with minute tactile 

 organs visible under high magnification. Palpi slender and delicate, 

 .about five and one-half times length of prostomium, regularly tapered 

 .and smooth. A very slight facial ridge runs to the mouth. 



Prostomium completely concealed beneath prostomium, its parapodia 

 produced straight forward at sides of prostomium and reaching about 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



its length anterior to it (PL XXXIII, fig. 113). It is supported by a 

 notopodial aciculum, dorsal and ventral to which on the medial side 

 arise the two tufts of capillary setae. Parapodial lamella a thin, 

 narrow elongated curved plate embracing the medial face of the 

 parapodium like a scale nearly to its end and covering most of the 

 lateral tentacle. Tentacular cirri arising close together on lateral 

 side of distal end of parapodium; dorsal with a short cirrophore and 

 style resembling the median tentacle but much more slender and only 

 about two-thirds as long; ventral without distinct cirrophore and 

 style only about two-fifths as long as dorsal. 



Mouth bounded by a pair of lateral lips formed by II and a broad, 

 furrowed, posterior lip extending through III and IV. Body slender 

 and nearly linear, the dorsum more convex than the muscular venter, 

 transverse diameter little greater than vertical, sides nearly vertical 

 but owing to greater width at dorsum slightly overhanging. Seg- 

 ments scarcely defined, the furrows being obsolete and the cuticle 

 very smooth. 



Parapodia (with the exception of the first four pairs) projecting 

 directly laterad from near the ventral level, generally little longer than 

 one-half width of segments, somewhat compressed, dorsal and ventral 

 borders nearly parallel, the rami of equal length and separated by a 

 narrow cleft. Notopodium about one-half diameter of neuropodium, 

 broadly rounded and nearly truncate at the end, which bears a low 

 papilla in which the aciculum ends. Ventral to the acicular papilla 

 is a row of four or five short, finger-shaped processes or stylodes 

 increasing in length from behind forward and forming the chord of a 

 high-arched series of setae surrounding the aciculum and backed by 

 a low crenulated integumental fold. Neuropodium much deeper and 

 more compressed distally where it terminates in a low triangle, 

 the blunt apex of which lies nearer the dorsal than the ven- 

 tral side and which receives the tip of the aciculum. Surrounding 

 this acicular prominence is a flattened, incomplete ring or horse-shoe 

 of setae open anteriorly and backed by a low membrane bearing a 

 regular series of stylodes most of which are very short, but increase 

 in length both dorsally and ventrally where from four to six become 

 prominent. A single much longer stylode is appended to the tip of 

 the acicular papilla but is frequently wanting and is probably caducous. 

 Notocirrus separated from the papapodium by a rounded bay equalling 

 the latter in width, pendant from a prominent swollen cirrophore or 

 elytrophore and usually curved inward, short and thick, reaching 

 scarcely more than half way to the neuropodium and very densely 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



ciliated on one (normally inner) face. Ciliated pads or ctenidia three, 

 two occupying the notopodial bay, the ventral one on the dorsum of 

 the notopodium; middle one nearly twice the length of the dorsal 

 which exceeds the ventral. Neurocirrus arises by a short cirrophore 

 near base of neuropodium ; style rather slender, tapered and reaching 

 beyond base of ventralmost setae; dorsal side curiously irregular, at 

 the base a short, blunt, spur-like process followed by a shallow depres- 

 sion and just proximad of the middle by a low swelling beyond which 

 the dorsal side exhibits a crenulated outline gradually deepening 

 toward the tip which is composed of two or three moniliform articu- 

 lations. 



Caudally the parapodia become relatively longer and anteriorly 

 the first four or five are directed more and more forward and become 

 longer, the first two pointing directly forward. Neurocirrus of II 

 about twice as long as the others. 



Acicula single in each ramus, stout, tapered, slightly curved, the 

 tip projecting a little. Notopodial setae in a dense olbique row, becom- 

 ing much longer toward the dorsal and posterior end from which they 

 rise in a long falcate pencil over the outer margin of the elytra. All 

 simple, capillary, very slender, and very finely setose with minute, 

 mostly opposite hairs. Neuropodials in a flattened horse-shoe-shaped 

 series open anteriorly, besides which there is an outer ventral curved 

 series reaching farther dorsad in front and a small, detached dorsal 

 tuft. The latter consists of three to five delicate, acutely pointed, 

 simple setae with tapering shaft and spirally wound fringe of twelve 

 to fifteen conspicuous turns, diminishing and becoming obsolete distally 

 (Pi. XXXIII, fig. 120). Associated with these there is often present on 

 anterior parapodia one or rarely two compound setae with the distal 

 end of the shaft provided with a spiral fringe of several turns and the 

 very long, slender, articulated appendage ending in a simple delicate 

 point (fig. 117). Most remaining neuropodial setae are compound 

 and on anterior segments have slender, tapering, articulated appen- 

 dages terminating in bifid tips which, however, may be so weak and 

 obscure on some of the more slender ones that this character may 

 appear doubtful. The largest and stoutest setae are in the posterior 

 side of the principal series and have short, few-jointed appendages 

 and obscurely bifid tips (fig. 116). The dorsal arc is formed of setae of 

 moderate thickness with the end of the shaft often ornamented with 

 several antrorse pectinae or spinulose rows and the elongated and 

 slender appendages with ten to fifteen articulations and distinctly 

 bifid tips. Those of the main ventral arc have quite smooth shafts 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and appendages of intermediate length. Setae composing the outer 

 ventral arc are very slender with smooth (or anteriorly slightly spinu- 

 lose), rather strongly curved shafts and appendages with the number 

 of joints increasing from one on ventral to seven or eight on the most 

 dorsal and anterior setae and varying correspondingly in length. 

 These have the tips conspicuously hooked and bifid (fig. 118). Two 

 stout dark-colored setae with short unjointed strongly hooked and 

 bifid appendages (fig. 119) occur about the middle of the posterior 

 row regularly on parapodia behind XXX. On the cotype one of these 

 was found on V but none could be detected on other anterior parapodia. 

 Proceeding caudally all articulated setae tend to have fewer joints. 



Elytra occur on II, IV, V and alternate segments to XXVII and 

 after that on every consecutive segment to the end of the piece. They 

 are thin, only moderately arched and in the type devoid of pigment, 

 though anterior ones of the cotype are each marked with a short 

 curved dusky bar near the median border ; posteriorly most of them are 

 covered with a light ferruginous deposit. They are of the usual broadly 

 lunate form (Pi. XXXIII. fig. 114), becoming narrower behind XXVII, 

 truncate laterally where they are fimbriated with rather sparse but 

 moderately long processes, often arranged in small groups with minute 

 papillae between (fig. 1156). The elliptical scar lies laterad of the 

 middle, the third of the elytron external to its outer edge being note- 

 worthy for its rich supply of branching nerves and the absence of 

 surface nodules except for a narrow area adjacent to the umbilicus. 

 The remainder of the surface is thickly studded with small hard 

 trihedral nodules or spines, becoming slightly larger toward the 

 posterior border (fig. 115a). 



Stations 4,343, south of South Coronada Island, vicinity of San 

 Diego, 55-155 fathoms, fine gray sand (type); 4,552, off Point Pinos 

 Light-house, Monterey Bay, 66-73 fathoms, green mud and rocks 

 (two cotypes). 



This species resembles Sthenelais blanchardi Kinberg, of the coast 

 of Chile, in having all of the compound neuropodial setae bifid at the 

 tips, but differs in having those of the ventral group much less slender 

 and with fewer articulations than figured by Kinberg, the median 

 tentacle relatively longer and the smooth lateral area of the elytra 

 decidedly broader. 



Explanation of Plates XXVIII-XXXIII. 



Unless stated otherwise., all figures are drawn, with aid of the camera 

 lucida, from the types. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Plate XXVIII— Eunoe barbata — Figs. 1-6. 



Fig. 1 — Neuropodial seta from middle of somite X, X 250. 

 Fig. 2 — -End of a middle notopodial seta from X, X 250. 

 Fig. 3 — -Nearly smooth tip of a ventral notopodial seta from X, X 250. 

 Fig. 4 — -Third elytron of right side, X 9. 



Figs. 5 and 6 — -Portions of the same elvtron at points respectively indicated 

 by A and B, X 56. 



Eunoe cceca — figs. 7-12. 



Fig. 7 — Head region from above, the prostomium slightly tipped up in 



front, tentacular cirri shown on left side only, X 9. 

 Fig. 8 — Posterior view of parapodium X without seta?, X 17. 

 Fig. 9 — Neuropodial seta from middle of fascicle of somite X, X 56. 

 Fig. 10— Tip of the same, X 250. 

 Fig. 11 — End of middle notopodial of X, X 56. 

 Fig. 12— Tip of the same, X 250. 



Harmothoe scriptoria — figs. 13-17. 



Fig. 13 — Head region from above, median tentacular style missing and 



tentacular cirri shown on left side only, X 24. 

 Fig. 14 — Anterior aspect of parapodium XX without setae, X 33; 14a, 



tip of acicular process of neuropodium of the same viewed from behind, 



more highly magnified. 

 Fig. 15 — Elytron from somite XI, X 9; 15a, a small portion of the surface 



at A, X 56. 

 Fig. 16 — End of a neuropodial from middle of fascicle of X, X 440. 

 Fig. 17— Tip of middle notopodial of X, X 250. 



Plate XXIX — Harmothoe triannulata — figs. 18-22. 



Fig. 18 — Prostomium and peristomium with appendages, from above, 



X 24. 

 Fig. 19 — Parapodium X without setae or notocirrus, caudal aspect, X 33. 

 Fig. 20 — An anterior elytron, X 33. 



Fig. 21— Neuropodial seta from middle of fascicle of X, X 250. 

 Fig. 22 — End of an average notopodial seta from X, X 440. 



I Harmothoe tenebricosa — figs. 23-28. 



Fig. 23 — -Dorsal aspect of head region, tentacular cirri and palpus shown 



on left side only, X 9. 

 Fig. 24 — Anterior aspect of parapodium X without setae and notocirrus, 



X 24. 

 Fig. 25 — Neuropodial seta from middle of fascicle of X, X 56. 

 Fig. 26— Tip of the same, X 250. 

 Fig. 27 — Middle notopodial from X, X 56. 

 Fig. 28— Tip of the same, X 250. 

 Figs. 25-28 — drawn from cotype. 



Harmothoe (Evame) fragilis — figs. 29-30. 



Fig. 29 — -Dorsal aspect of prostomium and peristomial parapodia, lacking 



median tentacular style and right tentacular cirri, X 24. Left tentacular 



cirri from a cotype. 

 Fig. 30 — Neuropodial seta from middle of fascicle of X, X 250. 



Plate XXX — Harmothoe fragilis — figs. 31-33. 



Fig. 31 — Anterior aspect of parapodium X of a cotype (Sta. 4,418), X 33. 

 Fig. 32 — Third elytron of the same cotype, X 24. 

 Fig. 33 — -Tip of average notopodial of X, X 250. 



Antinoe anoculata — figs. 34-40. 



Fig. 34 — Cephalic region from the dorsum, X 9. 

 Fig. 35— Posterior aspect of parapodium X without setae, X 9. 

 Fig. 36— Fourth right elytron (VII), X 9. 



Fig. 37 — Neuropodial setae from X; a, dorsal, 6, middle, and c, ventral, 

 X 56. 

 26 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April.. 



Fig. 38 — Tips of three of the same more highly magnified; b and c, middle 

 and ventral setse respectively, X 250; d, a ventral seta with peculiarly 

 bifid tip, X 440. 



Fig. 39 — Distal portion of an average notopodial from X, X 56. 



Fig. 40— Tip of the same, X 250. 



Nemidict microlepida — figs. 42-44. 



Fig. 42 — Dorsal aspect of cephalic region with base of protruded proboscis ; 



left ventral tentacular cirrus only represented, X 17. 

 Fig. 43 — Anterior aspect of parapodium X, X 24; a. posterior aspect of 



tip of the neuropodium, X 33. 

 Fig. 44— Elytron from somite XVII, X 24. 



Plate XXXI — Nemidia microlepida — figs. 45, 46. 



Fig. 45 — Complete neuropodial seta from LXXX, X 250. 

 Fig. 46 — Worn neuropodial seta as usually found, from a posterior segment , 

 X 250. 



Poli/no e(1) remigata — figs. 47-51. 



Fig. 47 — Incomplete and distorted head region, X 17. 



Fig. 48 — Anterior aspect of a middle parapodium without setae or cirri, 



X 24. 

 Fig. 49 — End of a notopodial from middle region, X 250. 

 Fig. 50 — Neuropodial from middle segment, X 33. 

 Fig. 51 — Tip of a neuropodial, X 250. 



Polynoe(l) filamentom — figs. 52-56. 



Fig. 52 — Anterior aspect of parapodium XXIII, without seta' or noto- 



cirrus, X 24. 

 Fig. 53 — Tip of a long notopodial seta from XVIII, X 250. 

 Fig. 54— A short notopodial from XVIII, X 33. 

 Fig. 55 — An average neuropodial seta from XVIII, X 33. 

 Fig. 56— Tip of the same, X 250. . 



Polynoe('t) aciculata — figs. 57, 58. 



Fig. 57 — A much retracted parapodium without seta; or neurocirrus but 



with notocirrus, anterior view, X 24. 

 Fig. 58 — End of a dorsal neuropodial seta, X 250. 



Polynoe(?) renotubulata — figs. 59-64. 



Fig. 59 — Head lacking some of the appendages, X 9. 



Fig. 60— Posterior aspect of parapodium from behind middle of body, 

 without setse, and showing the greatly elongated nephridial papilla (//'), 

 X 9. 

 Fig. 61 — First elytron, X 9. 



Fig. 62 — Average neuropodial seta from XXIII, X 33. 

 Fig. 63— End of the same, X 250. 



Figs. 64a and 646 — Side and face views respectively of end of a ventral 

 neuropodial from XXIII, X 250. 



Aphrodita armifera — figs. 65, 66. 



Fig. 65 — -Dorsal finbriated organ from XII, X 56. 

 Fig. 66 — Two dorsal papillae, X 250. 



Figs. A and B — -Free-hand sketches of tips of average neuropodial and 

 notopodial setse from somite X of Harmothoe yokohamiensis. 



Plate XXXII — Aphrodita, armifera — figs. 67-75. 

 Fig. 67 — Head from above, X 9. 



Fig. 68 — Medium sized notopodial seta from ventral fascicles of X, X 24. 

 Fig. 69— Tip of the same showing the asperities which are largest near the 



end, X 56. 

 Fig. 70 — Two neuropodial seta; of the dorsal row of X, one in profile and 



another in face view. X 56. 

 Fig. 71 — Xeuropodial seta of middle row of X, X 56. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Fig. 72 — Two setae of ventral neuropodial row of X, X 56. 



Fig. 73 — Tip of the smaller seta shown in fig. 72, slightly turned to show 



flattened concave surface, X 250. 

 Fig. 74 — End of one of the more dorsal pinnate setae from the ventral 



neuropodial fascicle of II, X 250. 

 Fig. 75 — Portion of a slender spinous neuropodial seta from a caudal 



parapodium, X 360. 



Aphrodita refulgida — figs. 76-84. 



Fig. 76 — Dorsal papilla?, X 56. 



Fig. 77 — Dorsal fimbriated organ from XV, X 56. 



Fig. 78 — Head (peristomial parapodia of right side omitted; dorsal ten- 

 tacular cirrus, added from cotype), X 9. 



Fig. 79 — notopodial seta (in two pieces) from dorsal fascicle of X, X 24. 



Fig. SO — -Tip of another of the same, showing the sheath sometimes present, 

 X 250. 



Fig. 81 — a, b and c, outlines of ends of dorsal, middle and ventral neuro- 

 podial setae respectively, from X, X 56. 



Fig. 82 — End of a seta from near dorsal part of ventral neuropodial fas- 

 cicle of II, X 250. 



Fig. 83 — End of one of the shorter, slender spinous neuropodials from caudal 

 parapodia, X 250. 



Fig. 84 — Portion of end of elongated neuropodial from caudal region, 

 X 250. 



Aphrodita castanea — figs. 85-97. 



Fig. 85 — Head of cotype (Sta. 4,468). The right peristomial foot exhibits 



an abnormal condition in the presence of two dorsal tentacular cirri, X 9. 

 Fig. 86 — Fimbriated organ from XII, X 24. 

 Fig. 87— Two dorsal papillae, X 250. 

 Fig. 88 — Hooked tips of two notopodial setae from dorsal fascicle of X 



(cotype sta. 4,482), X 250. 

 Fig. 89 — Superficial roughening of small portion from middle of a dorsal 



notopodial of X (cotype), X 250. 

 Fig. 90 — Tip and small portion of dorsal felt fiber of middle segment, X 600. 

 Fig. 91 — Same of lateral fiber, X 600. 



Fig. 92 — a, b and c, dorsal, middle and ventral neuropodial setae respec- 

 tively (cotype sta. 4,482) of X, X 56. 

 Fig. 93 — Pinnate seta from middle of ventral neuropodial fascicle of II, 



X 250. 

 Fig. 94 — Short spinous ventral neuropodial of caudal region, X 250. 

 Fig. 95 — Long same, X 250. 

 Fig. 96 — Tip of notopodial from caudal region showing the sticky hairy 



surface. X 600. 

 Fig. 97 — Portion of middle of lateral fiber from caudal region showing same 



condition, X 600. 

 Figs. 85, 88, 89, 92, 93, 94, 95, and 98 were drawn from a cotype (sta. 4,482). 



Plate— XXXIII. 



Fig. 98 — -Ventral neuropodial seta from somite X of A. castanea, X 250. 



Leanira alba — figs. 99-104. 



Fig. 99 — Dorsal view of anterior end, with second right and third left 



elytra in place, right side not completed, X 9. 

 Fig. 100 — a, b and c, parapodia II, XXV and L, respectively, anterior 



views without seta, X 17. 

 Fig. 101 — a and b, outlines of elytra IX and XXXIX, respectively, X 9. 

 Fig. 102 — Profile view of an average, anterior, subacicular neuropodial 



seta of XXV, X 250. 

 Fig. 103 — An extreme dorsal neuropodial seta from XXV, X 250. 

 Fig. 104 — a and b, basal and middle portions of a notopodial seta from 



XXV, X 440. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Sthenelanella uniformis — figs. 105-1 12. 

 Fig. 105— Head from above, X 24. 

 Fig. 106 — Anterior view of parapodium X, X 56. 

 Fig. 107 — -Posterior view of parapodium XX, X 56. 

 Fig. 108 — Elytron V, X 24. The light and dark stippling represent 



somewhat crudely the distribution of brown and fuscous pigment. 

 Fig. 109 — Small portion of lateraljborder of elytron II, X 250. 

 Fig. 110 — Ends of dorsal neuropodial setse, a, profile view of one from XX, 



b, posterior view of one from V, X 440. 

 Fig. Ill — Neuropodial setse from XX; a, middle one with imperfect 



articulation, b, a fully compound ventral one, X 440. 

 Fig. 112 — Small portion of plumose notopodial seta from XX, X 440. 



Sthenelais tertiaglabra — figs . 1 1 3- 1 20 . 

 Fig. 113 — Head from dorsum, X 24. 

 Fig. 114— Elytron XXV, X 17. 

 Fig. 115 — o, four trihedral horny papillae from near posterior border of 



elytron; b, portion of lateral margin with cirriform and minute ovate 



papilla?, X 250. 

 Fig. 116 — Stout posterior neuropodial seta of usual type, from XX, X 360. 

 Fig. 117 — Slender dorsal neuropodial of XX, X 360. 

 Fig. 118 — Neuropodial seta of outer ventral arc, from X; a, tip of another, 



X 360. 

 Fig. 119 — Stout neuropodial with unjoin ted appendage from posterior 



series of XXXV of cotype, X 250. 

 Fig. 120 — Simple dorsal neuropodial seta from XX, X 360. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



403 



A NEW FISH OF THE GENUS PARALEPIS FROM NEW JERSEY. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER and DR. RICHARD J. PHILLIPS. 

 Paralepis barracudina sp. nov. 



Head 4^; depth 10; D. ii, 8, i; A. iii, 21, i; P. i, 13; V, i, 8; scales 

 in lateral count along lateral line to caudal base (squamation damaged) 

 estimated about 120?; 18 scales (several lost) ir slight oblique series 

 down from dorsal origin to that of ventral; about 70? predorsal scales; 

 head width b\ its length; greatest head depth 3; depressed dorsal 

 length 3; pectoral 2f; ventral 5; least depth caudal peduncle 6f ; 

 anal base about If; mandible 2; snout 2i in head, measured from 

 upper jaw tip; eye 6£; maxillary 3; interorbital 8£. 



Body elongate, slender, well compressed, edges convex, though 

 lower more constricted than upper. Greatest depth about dorsal 

 origin, body slightly tapering forward from this point, and more 

 suddenly behind. Sides of body flattened. Caudal peduncle small, 

 well compressed, and least depth nearly half its length. 



Head attenuated, well compressed, lower profile nearly straight, 

 and upper slightly concave anteriorly. Snout long, depressed or 



flattened above, and sides slightly convex. Eye rounded, little longer 

 than deep, high or close to upper profile, and placed slightly behind 

 middle in head length. Mouth terminal superiorly, moderately long, 

 and gape not extending back more than half length of maxillary. 

 Jaws thin, mandible large, well projecting beyond tip of upper jaw 

 and with slight symphyseal knob fitting in a corresponding shallow 

 emargination above, though latter quite broad so that front edge of 

 upper jaw laterally appears to ensheath it. Mandibular rami with 

 entire low prominent longitudinal external ridges. Maxillary thin, 

 moderately broad, slipping under thin preorbital edge above, and end 

 slightly more than § to eye. Uniserial minute, short, close-set, rather 

 robust, compressed and backwardly-curved teeth along upper jaw edge, 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



which begin anteriorly at each side of anterior emargination and extend 

 back short space from distal maxillary end. Anterior end of upper 

 jaw thin and entirely edentulous. Uniserial teeth on each palatine, 

 anteriorly nearly large as symphyseal canines, and gradually decreasing 

 in size posteriorly. No other teeth on roof of mouth. On each side 

 of mandibular symphysis a small and nearly erect canine. Just 

 behind these and well inside 1 or 2 smaller canines. A short space 

 still posterior uniserial small mandibular teeth begin on each ramus 

 along edges, nearly uniform, small, and similar to those above except 

 more erect, or even slightly leaning forward at anterior region. Man- 

 dibular teeth continue well back inside mouth. Rami of mandible 

 well elevated inside mouth posteriorly. Tongue elongately spat u late. 

 well free in front, extending forward nearly opposite tip of upper jaw, 

 and with one series of recurved teeth, similar to those on front of 

 palatines, along each upper edge, and posteriorly these series become 

 slightly approximated. At tongue base each side a knob, opposite 

 and posterior to which surface smooth and edentulous. Lips extremely 

 thin, membranous, but little developed along jaw edges. Nostrils 

 inconspicuous, 2 small pores near last third in snout length or nearly 

 opposite distal maxillary end, and close to upper profile. Interorbital 

 region depressed, concave medianly. Occipital region with even 

 convex surface. Frontal, prefrontal, supraorbital and preorbital 

 ridges prominent. Upper postorbital ridge prominent to each opercle, 

 and preopercular ridge sloping down in wide curve to mandible. Lower 

 surface of head convexly constricted. 



Gill-opening large, extending well forward or about last \ in snout 

 length, and behind well above eye. Epibranchial region \ combined 

 cerato-hypobranchial. Rakers slender, conic, single, bifid and often 

 trifid, on epibranchials about 8, or 1 or 2 more + 25 cerato-hypobran- 

 chials, also several more sometimes. Longest rakers about f longest 

 filaments, and latter about § horizontal eye. Pseudobranchise large, 

 nearly equal largest filaments. Isthmus anteriorly long thin frenum, 

 and posteriorly still narrow with convex surface. Peritoneum with 

 outer membranes bronzed, and inner lining blackish. 



Scales small, cycloid, caducous, and with conspicuous striae on 

 exposed surfaces enlarged, very distinct, extending to edges, and 

 more or less curved in approximation toward median axis. Body 

 scaly, except upper front portion of head before eyes, mandible, all 

 fins except caudal base, and narrow area below shoulder-girdle nearly 

 to ventrals. This latter as a very narrow T naked strip over which the 

 scales do not seem to pass. Scales on trunk arranged in longitudinal 

 series, those above lateral line slope down obliquely parallel with its 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



course, and those below in nearly even horizontal series. About 4 

 rows of scales on cheek extending well forward on preorbital region 

 nearly opposite gape of mouth. Top of head scaly nearly to inter- 

 orbital. Opercles entirely scaly, scales extending down over bran- 

 chiostegals, at least above. Breast sides covered with small scales, 

 at least a little smaller than others. No scaly axillary flaps. Small 

 scaly flap between bases of ventrals. Small scales on caudal base. 

 Lateral line inconspicuous, continuous, sloping gradually down from 

 shoulder to caudal base, and scales in its course not enlarged. Where 

 scales have fallen its course is very evident by enlarged pigmented 

 pockets, but showing indistinctly through perfect squamation. Tubes 

 very inconspicuous, simple, short, little exposed, and rather sparse, 

 or alternately skipping 1 or more scales. 



Dorsal origin inserted little nearer caudal base than hind preopercle 

 edge, small, graduated down from second simple ray, and base about 

 f its depressed length. Anal inserted little nearer dorsal origin than 

 caudal base, first branched rays longest (edges damaged) and posterior 

 half of fin much lower. Adipose dorsal not determined (damaged). 

 Caudal (damaged) small, and 7 rudimentary rays both above and 

 below well developed. Pectoral small, low, inserted close after end 

 of opercle, and uppermost rays longest. Ventral inserted about 

 opposite base of fourth branched dorsal ray, small, rounded, and 

 depressed fin about 3^ to anal. Vent just after tips of depressed 

 ventrals. 



Color when fresh in alcohol deep lilac or leaden-grayish generally, 

 with more or less dull neutral shades and silvered reflections. Colora- 

 tion largely uniform, scarcely paler below. Edges of bones of head 

 above with more or less blackish pigment. Inside mouth, tongue, 

 and within gill-opening blackish. Fins all dull pale grayish, dorsal 

 and caudal slightly dusky. Iris shining leaden-dusky. 



Length 8-j- inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 37,627, A. N. S. P. Corson's Inlet, Cape May County, 

 N. J. March 27th 1910. Dr. R. J. Phillips. 



This is the only example obtained, and was found on the beach. 

 Though in fair preservation, it had been disturbed a little by some 

 crabs, which damaged part of the back in the region of the adipose 

 dorsal. Our species appears related to the European P. coregonoides, 

 differing chiefly in the smaller scales and having the teeth in the jaws 

 all minute except the anterior palatines and mandibular canines. 

 According to Moreau 1 the scales of P. coregonoides are about 64 in the 



l Poiss. France, III, 18S1, p. 519, fig. 205. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lateral line, and his rough figure shows nearly as man}' intended to 

 represent a lateral count. We have examined a single poorly pre- 

 served Mediterranean example from the Bonaparte collection, evi- 

 dently the basis of the latter's figure and description of his P. core- 

 gonoides. 2 It shows about 60 scale pockets, in the course of the lateral 

 line, which do not extend very much posterior to the anal base. Though 

 the snout and mandible are considerably damaged they show much 

 larger teeth along edges of the latter, than on edges of the upper jaw. 

 The ventrals are inserted behind dorsal origin and the A. iii, 24? A 

 specimen from Lat. 28° 43' N., Long. 87° 14' 30" W., figured by Goode 

 and Bean as P. coregonoides, 3 differs considerably from our example 

 in the nearly even jaws with canines in the front of both, maxillary 

 extending quite close toward the eye, deeper body and but slightly 

 emarginated caudal. P. speciosus Belloti differs according to the 

 original account and figure 4 in having the ventrals inserted slightly 

 before the dorsal. P. borealis Reinhardt, said to range south in the 

 Atlantic to Cape Ann, has been referred to a different genus, chiefly 

 as the ventrals are inserted entirely behind the dorsal. Goode and 

 Bean figure an example the}'' refer to P. borealis 5 which shows the head 

 4§, depth nearly 13£, dorsal origin nearly last third in total length, 

 A. iii, 26 and nearly 200 scales in a lateral count from shoulder to 

 caudal base. It may be here noted in this connection that Paralepis, 

 usually credited to Risso in 1826, cannot date from then, as it first 

 occurs in Bosc, this author virtually naming Cuvier's account, which 

 is not tenable as proposed in the French vernacular. 6 In Bosc's first 

 account, under Coregonus, he says "le genre Paralepis de Cuvier enleve 

 l'espece de ce nom a celui-ci," 7 and if this be considered inadmissible 

 his next account 8 must be taken. As the first species, P. coregonoides 

 Risso, 9 has been virtually allowed the type, it may be so considered 

 still. The occurrence of Paralepis barracudina on our Atlantic shores 

 is of interest not only as a new form and addition to our fauna, but 

 also in further mapping out the distribution of the genus. 



(Barracudina, diminutive of Barracuda or Sphyrama, to which the 

 species of Paralepis bear a close superficial resemblance.) 



2 Faun. Italica, III, pt. I, xxLx, 1840, descr., PI. fig. 2. 



3 Ocean Ich., 1895, p. 119, PI. 39, fig. 149. 



*Atti Soc. Ital. S. N., XX, 1877, pp. 54, 57, fig. Nice. 

 5 Ocean. Ich., 1895, p. 119, PI. 38, fig. 143. 

 *Regne Animal, II, 1817, p. 290. 



7 Nouv. Diet. S. N., VIII, 1817, p. 59. 



8 L. c, XXIV, 1818, p. 520. 



KJourn. Phijs. Chim. H. N., XCI, 1820 (Oct.), p. 253. Nice. (This is the 

 earliest available reference to this species.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



A REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS 

 ISCHNOPTERA (ORTHOPTERA). 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN and MORGAN HEBARD. 



Some months ago the study of a considerable series of specimens 

 of this genus from North Carolina furnished the incentive for a careful 

 examination of all the material on hand at that time, as well as a study 

 of the literature bearing on the genus as present within the limits of 

 the United States and Canada. The results were so interesting that 

 a number of appeals were made for additional material to enable us 

 to make our examination as complete as possible, and the cordial 

 responses placed in our hands for study an extensive and very valuable 

 series from the collections of the United States National Museum, the 

 Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, and the private collections 

 of Profs. Lawrence Brunei*, A. P. Morse and W. S. Blatchley, to all of 

 whom our hearty thanks are given for their cooperation. Primarily 

 this work rests upon the material in the collection of the junior author, 

 this representing about one-half of the five hundred and fifty-two 

 specimens examined. 



The two greatest difficulties encountered in studying the genus 

 were the lack of sex correlation on account of the usually great sexual 

 dimorphism, most of the females being considered species of other 

 genera, such as Temnopteryx and Loboptera (Kakerlac), and the confu- 

 sion or non-recognition of certain of the older species. In the present 

 paper every species of the genus known from within our limits has 

 the sexes correlated, with the result that Loboptera and Temnopteryx 

 are entirely eliminated from our fauna, with the exception of one 

 species of the latter genus known only from the female, the discovery 

 of the male of which probably will prove its membership in the genus 

 here treated. 



The extent of individual variation in species of the genus is consid- 

 erable, both in size and to a less extent in coloration. The length of 

 the tegmina is the most variable dimension, although its ratio to the 

 general size always remains much the same, only departing decidedly 

 in this particular in specimens which are really intermediate in 

 character between two geographic races. Coloration seldom varies 

 except along the lines of intensification and dilution, the cases of 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



presence or absence of a decided pattern within a species being few. 

 The descriptions have been drawn up to cover as fully as possible the 

 extremes, the measurements in all cases representing these except 

 in a few dimensions where the most extreme specimens of a species 

 examined have an identical measurement. 



The form of the tegmina in the female sex furnishes one of the most 

 Interesting phases of specific divergence in this genus and it proved 

 to be the rock on which a number of species were split off on one side 

 into Loboptera and on the other into Temnoptcryx. It is quite apparent 

 that the form of these appendages is much less important in these 

 species than was formerly supposed to be the case, as species very 

 similar in general appearance, other structures, including genital 

 appendages, and in coloration will differ considerably in teg- 

 minal form, although the form and proportions of these are quite 

 constant within specific limits. Several of the species are difficult 

 to separate in the male sex, while the females are quite easy to dis- 

 tinguish ; in one case the females of two forms do not appear separable 

 while the males are typically easy to distinguish. The greater diver- 

 sity in the females when considered with their pronounced, adaptation 

 for life under stones and bark is in decided contrast to the more gen- 

 eralized structure of the males. 



In the case of two forms it has been found advisable to use a tri- 

 nomial, as sufficient evidence of intergradation exists in the territory 

 where the ranges overlap, to demonstrate beyond a doubt that one is 

 but a geographic form or race of the other. In these instances the 

 trinomial shows close relationship, while a binomial would imply a 

 unit distinction which does not exist. 



As several authors have shown the great amount of variability in 

 the number of complete and incomplete rami of the ulnar vein of the 

 wing within specific limits in a number of genera of the Pseudomopince 

 (Phyllodrominrv of authors), we have not used this character in sep- 

 arating species, contenting ourselves with giving in the specific descrip- 

 tions the ramus extremes of the series examined. 



The range of each species has been carefully mapped from the 

 •specimens and literature and the distribution of each species is given 

 from its particular chart. 



The exact position of Temnopteryx deserke Rehn and Hebard 1 is 

 •doubtful, but as the discovery of the male will probably show its 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 1 16, fig. 1 . [Johnstone, Valverde County, 

 Texas.] 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



true position to be in Ischnoptera, we have placed it, at least provision- 

 all}', in this genus. 



ISCHNOPTERA Burmeister. 



Distribution in North America. — Extending from southwestern Maine, 

 southwestern Quebec, southeastern Ontario, Lake Superior, Minnesota 

 and Oregon, south to southern Florida, Gulf Coast, extreme southern 

 Texas, southern Arizona and California, apparently absent from the 

 Cordilleran region from Colorado north and from the greater portion 

 of the Great Basin. 



Species Groups. 



Deropeltiformis group. — General dark coloration. Supra-anal plate 

 of male more or less truncate distad. 

 Subgroup with subquadrate tegmina in female. 



1. /. deropeltiformis B runner. 



2. /. nigricollis Walker. 



Subgroup with sublobiform or lobiform tegmina in female. 



3. /. johnsoni Rehn. 



4. /. americana (Scudder). 



Pensylvanica group. — Pronotum of male always with dark discal 

 area, usually indicated in female. Supra-anal plate of male 

 with produced median portion rotundato-truncate or obtuse- 

 angulate, lateral margins of same production distinctly arcuato- 

 emareinate. 



5. /. pensylvanica (De Geer). 



5a. /. p. incequalis (Sauss. and Zehntner). 



6. /. divisa Sauss. and Zehntner. 



Uhleriana group. — General pale coloration, very rarely with disk of 

 pronotum darkened. Tegmina of female short, more or less 

 subquadrate. 



7. /. couloniana Sauss. 



8. /. uhleriana Sauss. 



8a. /. u. fulvescens Sauss. and Zehntner. 



Notha group. — General pale coloration. Supra-anal plate of male 

 broadly truncate. Tegmina of female covering greater portion 

 of abdomen. 



9. /. notha n. sp. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



Borealis group. — General pale coloration. Supra-anal plate of male 

 broadly arcuate. 

 Subgroup. Short, attingent tegmina in 9 . 



10. /. borealis Brunner. 



Subgroup. Lateral lobiform tegmina in 9 . 



11. /. bolliana Sauss. and Zehntner. 



Subgroup. Elongate tegmina, longer than body in 9 . 



12. /. iusolita n. sp. 



Occidentalis group. — General coloration ferruginous to blackish-brown. 

 Supra-anal plate of male produced, obtuse-angulate emarginate 

 distad. 



13. /. occidentalis Sauss. 



Key to Species. 



Males. 



A. — Dorsal color uniform brownish or brownish-black or pronotum 

 alone entirely of that color; tegmina paler, approaching burnt 

 sienna, (Supra-anal plate produced mesad into a broad 

 subtruncate process, lateral angles more or less rounded.) 

 B. — Tegmina same color as pronotum. 



C. — Size larger (male tegmina 16 to 18 mm. in length) 



deropeltiformis (Brunner). 

 CC. — Size smaller (male tegmina 11.5-15 mm. in length). 



D. — Color pitch black or blackish brown. Pronotum some- 

 what produced cephalad, with greatest length con- 

 tained one and one-third times in greatest width. 



Supra-anal plate with distal extremity truncate 



johnsoni Rehn. 

 DD. — Color ferruginous (rarely olivaceous). Pronotum trans- 

 verse subelliptical, with greatest length contained 

 about one and one-half times in greatest width. 



Supra-anal plate with distal extremity rounded 



americana (Scudder). 



BB. — Tegmina pale, pronotum dark nigricollis Walker. 



A A. — Dorsal color not uniform deep brownish or blackish-brown, 

 pronotum with pale lateral margins if center is dark brown. 

 B. — Pronotum with decided central discal dark brown or blackish- 

 brown area of variable size, with lateral margins, at least, 

 translucent or hoary-white. Tegmina dark with trans- 

 lucent or subtranslucent costal region. 

 C. — Supra-anal plate with median produced portion broad. 

 (General color darker.) 

 D. — Median area of pronotum usually not so sharply defined, 

 uniform in color or so broadly confluent with caudal 

 margin; pale lateral portions often very narrow. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Tegmina with pale proximal portions of costal field 

 strongly contrasted in none but darkest individuals.. 



pensylvanica (De Geer). 



DD. — Median area of pronotum uniform, sharply defined and 



broadly and solidly confluent with caudal margin; 



pale lateral portions broad. Tegmina with pale 



proximal portion of costal field decidedly contrasted 



with remainder of tegmina 



pensylvanica incequalis (Saussure and Zehntner). 

 CC. — Supra-anal plate with median produced portion narrower. 



(General color paler.) divisa Saussure and Zehntner. 



BB. — Pronotum without a very decided central dark brown discal 

 area on the pronotum 2 or when this area is dark it is occupied 

 by paired dark brown subarcuate bars. Tegmina pale red 

 brown or brownish with the costal region less translucent 

 (except in couloniana). 

 C. — Size large (cJ 1 tegmina 19-22 mm.). Supra-anal plate 



rotundato-trigonal couloniana Saussure. 



CC. — Size medium or small. 



D. — Supra-anal plate rotundato-trigonal or more or less 

 truncate or emarginate distad. 

 E. — Distal margin of supra-anal plate not obtuse emargi- 

 nate. 

 F.~ -Supra-anal plate rotundato-trigonal. 



G. — Pronotum transverse elliptical, rarely with 

 slight cephalic production, greatest width 

 of same distinctly less than greatest width 

 of single tegmen, whole pronotum small 

 in proportion to general size. Tegmina 

 distinctly wider one-third length from 

 apex than at one-third cf distance from 



base uhleriana Saussure. 



GG. — Pronotum always slightly produced and 

 narrowed cephalad, large, greatest width 

 of same, equal to the greatest width of 

 single tegmen, whole pronotum large in 

 proportion to general size. Tegmina hard- 

 ly wider one-third length from apex than 



at one-third of distance from base 



uhleriana fulvescens Saussure and Zehntner. 



FF. — Supra-anal plate produced and broadly truncate 



mesad with angles rounded, distal portion of 



plate distinctly depressed and forming an 



angle with proximal portion notha n. sp. 



EE. — Distal margin of supra-anal plate obtuse-angulate 

 emarginate occidentalis Saussure. 



2 Occasionally in /. couloniana the middle of the pronotum is quite dark, but 

 the color of the tegmina and remainder of the body shows the proper position of 

 these specimens. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



DD. — Supra-anal plate of male with apical portion arcuate, 



not trigonal. 



E. — Coloration uniform pale ochraceous. Size medium. 



F. — Costal field of tegmina moderate in width. Size 



medium. Pronotum rarely as wide as greatest 



width of tegmen borealis Brunner. 



FF. — Costal field of tegmina narrow. Size small. 

 Pronotum wider than greatest width of 



tegmen insolita n. sp. 



EE. — Color of pronotum usually more or less blackish 

 brown, often bimaculate with same, very rarely 

 uniform in color with tegmina. (Pronotum 

 strongly sulcate and less transverse ovate than in 



alternative category.) 



bolliana Saussure and Zehntner. 



Females. 



A. — Tegmina shorter than body. 



B. — Dorsal color uniform deep brownish or brownish black or 

 pronotum alone entirely of that color with tegmina ferru- 

 ginous. 

 C. — Tegmina subquadrate, attingent mesad. 



D— Size larger (12.5-17.5 mm. in length). Tegmina 

 uniform in color with or nearly uniform in color 



with remainder of dorsal surface 



lit ropeltiformis (Brunner). 

 DD. — Size smaller (12.5 mm. in length). Tegmina ferru- 

 ginous in color, distinctly contrasted with blackish 

 color of remainder of dorsum nigricollis Walker. 



CC. — Tegmina lobiform, acuminate, lateral, decidedly not 

 attingent mesad. 



D. — Size medium. Tegmina separated by less than width 

 of single tegmen, apex reaching to second abdominal 



segment johnsoni Rehn. 



DD. — Size small. Tegmina separated by more than width 



of single tegmen, apex hardly exceeding mesonotum, 



(Vide infra bolliana.) americana (Scudder). 



BB. — Dorsal color not uniform deep brownish or blackish-brown, 



pronotum having pale lateral margins if center is dark 



brown (except in boll tana). 



C. — Pronotum with decided central discal dark brown or 



blackish-brown area of variable size (or with at least 



more or less complete evidence of same) ; lateral margins 



translucent or hoary white. 



D. — Supra-anal plate rectangulate produced. (Pronotum 

 usually with pronounced and sharply denned discal 

 area.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



E. — Tegmina covering all or greater portion of abdomen. 

 Color pattern moderately contrasted, discal area 



on pronotnm usually somewhat paler mesa 



pensylvanica (De Geer). 

 EE. — Tegmina rarely exceeding second abdominal seg- 

 ment. Color pattern strongly contrasted, discal 



area on pronotum uniform 



'pensylvanica incequalis (Sauss. and Zehntner). 

 DD. — Supra-anal plate subrectangulate produced with apex 

 rounded. (Pronotum with discal area poorly con- 

 trasted and poorly defined) 



divisa Sauss. and Zehntner. 

 CC. — Pronotum without a decided central discal dark brownish 

 area. 3 

 D. — Size larger (tegmina 5.5 to 7.5 mm. in length). Teg- 

 mina ovate, distal margin rounded... couloniana Sauss. 

 DD. — Size medium or small (tegmina 1.5 to 4.8 4 ). Tegmina 

 obliquely truncate distad (uhleriana and u. fulvescens) , 

 rounded distad (notha and borralis) or lobiform 

 (bolliana and deserke). 

 E. — Tegmina attingent, not lobiform and lateral. 



F. — Tegmina subquadrate, distal margin more or 

 less obliquely subtruncate. 

 G. — Size medium. Supra-anal plate subsinuate 



laterad uhleriana Sauss. 



uhleriana fulvescens Sauss. and Zehntner. 

 GG. — Size small. Supra-anal plate regularly tri- 

 gonal borealis Brunner. 



F. — Tegmina little shorter than abdomen, ovate 



notha n. sp. 

 EE. — Tegmina lobiform, lateral. 



F. — Tegmina reaching only to base of metanotum 

 and separated by considerably more than 

 their width. Supra-anal plate broadly obtuse- 



angulate, color pitch black 



bolliana Sauss. and Zehntner. 



FF. — Tegmina reaching to base of proximal abdominal 



segment and separated by no more than their 



own width. Supra-anal plate rectangulate. 



Color ochraceous desertce (Rehn and Hebard). 



.1.1. — Tegmina longer than body. (Coloration uniform.) 



B. — Length of tegmina 11 mm. General color ochraceous 



insolita n. sp. 



BB. — Length of tegmina 16.2 to 20 mm. General color brownish 



black or ferruginous occidentalis Sauss. 



1 Rarely such a niaculation is present in very dark individuals of /. couloniana, 

 but in these cases the form of the supra-anal plate and of the tegmina is diag- 

 nostic. 



* In /. notha 9.5 mm. is the length of tegmen. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Treatment of Species. 



Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner). 



1865. T[emnopteryx] deropeltiformis Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt, p. 87. 



[North America.] 

 1894. Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Blatchley, Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci., 1892, 



p. 160. [Vigo County, Indiana.] 

 1903. Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Blatchley, The Orthoptera of Indiana, 



p. 177, fig. 24. [Vigo, Marshall and Crawford Counties, Indiana.] 

 1905. Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 32. [Miami, Florida.] 



1907. Themnopteryx deropeltiformis Tucker, Kansas Univ. Sci. Bull., IV, 

 No. 2, p. 71. [Douglas County, Kansas.] 



1908. Temnopteryx deropeltiformis Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 16. 

 [Raleigh, North Carolina.] 



Description. — d\ Size medium; body moderately depressed; form 

 elongate-elliptical when wings are in repose. Head not completely 

 hidden under pronotum; ocelli moderate in size, interocellar and 

 interocular interspaces subequal; antennse longer than body. Pro- 

 notum semi-elliptical, moderately flattened, caudal margin subtruncate, 

 lateral angles narrowly rounded and lateral portions decidedly de- 

 flected, cingulate, disk with usual convergent sulci more or less distinct. 

 Tegmina exceeding apex of abdomen by more than length of head 

 and pronotum, elongate, subequal, greatest width contained about three 

 and one-half times in length, apex well rounded; venation distinct, 

 costal field short, narrow, punctate. Wings as long as tegmina when 

 in repose, apex well rounded; ulnar vein with from three to five 

 complete rami reaching apex of wing, incomplete rami varying 

 from four to six in number. Supra-anal plate somewhat produced, sub- 

 quadrate, lateral margins obliquely convergent, apex truncate, lateral 

 angles narrowly rounded ; cerci depressed, fusiform-terete, apex acute. 

 General color seal brown on the dorsum becoming blackish on pro- 

 notum, tegmina paler distad. Abdomen, coxa) and head shining pitch 

 black. Wings hyaline with veins raw umber and costal margin and 

 apical portion clouded with same color. Eyes blackish to mars brown; 

 supra- antennal spots more or less ochraceous; antennse blackish. 

 | Limbs ochraceous, femora occasionally black, 



\ / Xt/ 7 except at genicular extremity 5 . Abdominal ap- 



pendages black. 

 noptera deropeltifor- 9 . Body considerably depressed ; form ellip- 



mis (Brunner). Su- tical-ovate, greatest width abdominal; surface 

 and$(x3). Male; glabrous. Head almost entirely hidden under 



Sulphur Springs, N. pronotum; antennae somewhat shorter than 



C: female; Raleigh, f , ' , • , , 



N. c. body. Pronotum much as in male but more 



5 This is the case with the males seen from Indiana, while rather curiously 

 all the individuals from other localities have the limbs uniform ochraceous. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



transversely arcuate and with lateral portions less deflected; sulci 

 not evident. Tegmina subquadrate, reaching to the base of abdomen, 

 attingent mesad ; costal margin slightly arcuate, distal margin slightly 

 oblique sinuato-emarginate, apex broadly rounded and costal in 

 position. Wings almost as long as tegmina. Supra-anal plate 

 transverse trigonal, more or less carinate mesad, apex obtuse-angulate 8 ; 

 cerci depressed fusiform, apex acute. 



General color uniform shining pitch black, tegmina occasionally 

 somewhat approaching bistre and very rarely burnt umber. Limbs 

 colored as in male, with same exception occurring in the case of one 

 specimen. 7 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 14-15 mm; length of prono- 

 tum 3.5-3.8 mm.; greatest width of pronotum 4.8-5 mm.; length of 

 tegmen 16-18 mm.; greatest width of tegmen 4.8-5.6 mm. 



9 . Length of body 12.5-17.5 mm. ; length of pronotum 3.9-4.5 mm. ; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5-6.5 mm.; length of tegmen 3.5-5.8 

 mm.; greatest width of tegmen 3-4 mm. 



Distribution.— This species is now known from localities extending 

 from southern Florida (Miami) north to southern Pennsylvania 

 (Wayne and Enola) and northern Indiana (Marshall County), west to 

 eastern Kansas (Douglas County) and south to Texas. The only exact 

 datum for the latter State is the capture of one specimen at Paris in 

 the northeastern portion of the State. From the known records the 

 species appears to be an inhabitant of the Upper and Lower Austral 

 Zones. 



Remarks. — The males of this species from a number of localities 

 are uniform in size and coloration, although the ulnar vein of the wing 

 is variable in the number of complete and incomplete rami which it 

 bears. The femalas vary considerably in size, but there appears to be 

 no correspondence between this and locality. The largest specimens 

 are from Raleigh, N. C, and Miami, Fla., the smallest from Raleigh 

 and Jacksonville, Fla. 



The mature specimens were taken or bred out on date in May, June, 

 July and August, the only specimens taken the latter month being 

 from Miami, Fla. The immature specimens were secured in March, 

 April, May and September, the last month being represented by one 

 specimen taken at Sulphur Springs, N. C. 



Specimens examined. — Thirty-nine; fourteen males, twenty females 

 and five immature specimens. 



B Rarely by aberration sinuato-emarginate. 

 7 This is also from Indiana. 



27 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Enola, Cumberland County, Pa. One immature specimen. (Penna. 

 State Dept, Zool.) 



Wayne, Delaware County, Pa. One immature specimen. (Penna. 

 State Dept, Zool.) 



Plummer's Island, Maryland. Two males. (U. S. N. M.) 



Cabin John, Maryland. One immature specimen (U. S. N. M.) 



Washington, D. C. One female. (U. S. N. M.). 



Great FaUs, Va. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Montgomery County, Va. One male. (Hebard Collection.) 



Virginia. One male, one female, one immature specimen. 

 (Brunei- Coll.) 



Crawford County, Ind. Four males, two females. (U. S. N. M., 

 A. N. S. P. and Hebard Collection.) 



Raleigh, N. C. Eleven females. (A. N. S. P., U. S. X. M. and 

 Hebard Collection.) 



Sulphur Springs, N. C. Two males, two immature specimens. 

 (Hebard Collection.) 



Tryon, N. C. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



North Carolina. One male. (Brunei- Collection.) 



Jacksonville, Fla. One female. (Brunei- Collection.) 



Miami, Fla. (hie female. (Hebard Collection.) 



Texas. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Paris, Tex. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Xo locality. One female. (Morse Collection.) 



Ischnoptera nigricollis Walker. 



1868. Ischnoptera nigricollis Walker, Catal. Spec. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 118. 



[Georgia.] 

 1903. Ischnoptera nigricollis Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, p. 125. [Enterprise, 



Florida.] 



Description. — d\ Size small; body somewhat depressed; form 

 elongate elliptical when the wings are in repose. Head but little 

 visible beyond pronotum; antennse but little longer than body. 

 Pronotum in shape much as in /. deropeltiformis but more rotundate, 

 caudal margin more arcuate and angles more rounded, moderately de- 

 pressed but still slightly transverse arcuate; lateral portion decidedly 

 deflected, more strongly cingulate than dorsum; sulci of disk well 

 marked. Tegmina considerably exceeding apex of abdomen, elongate, 

 subequal, the greatest width contained about three and one-half times 

 in length, apex rounded; venation distinct, costal field narrow, proxi- 

 mal, punctate. Wings as long as tegmina when in repose; ulnar vein 

 with three to four complete rami reaching apex of wing, incomplete 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



rami varying from three to four in number. Supra-anal plate and 

 cerci essentially as in deropeltiformis. 



Head, pronotum, dorsum of abdomen, venter and coxae shining 

 pitch black. Tegmina burnt sienna, darkening to blackish chestnut 

 proximad and fading to tawny distad and along costal margins. 

 Wings tawny infuscate. Limbs and mouth-parts ochraceous. An- 

 tennae and abdominal appendages blackish. 



9. Size small; body depressed; form elliptical-ovate. Head 



completely hidden under pronotum; antennae 



shorter than body. Pronotum semi-elliptical, 



caudal margin subtruncate, almost imper- 



., , , . , , , Figs. 3 and 4—Isch- 



ceptibly produced mesad, somewhat truncate noptera nigricollis 



cephalad, depressed dorsad, lateral deflected Walker Supra-anal 



. plate of o (X4) and 



portions rather broad; oblique sulci not evi- Cj (5) Male; Jack- 

 dent, Tegmina subquadrate, reaching base of sonvffle, Florida: fe- 

 abdomen; costal and sutural margins arcuato- 



truncate, distal margin slightly oblique subsinuate, apex broadly 

 rounded and costal in position. Wings reaching to apex of tegmina. 

 Supra-anal plate transverse trigonal, angle obtuse; cerci depressed, 

 fusiform, acute. 



Coloration exactly as in male, tegmina darkened proximad and 

 along the costal field. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 11-13.2 mm.; length of 

 pronotum 3-3.5 mm. ; greatest width of pronotum 4-4.2 mm. ; length 

 of tegmen 12.5-15 mm. ; greatest width of tegmen 3.8-4.6 mm. 



d\ Length of body 12.3 mm. ; length of pronotum 3.5 mm. ; greatest 

 width of pronotum 4.5 mm.; length of tegmen 3.2 mm.; greatest 

 width of tegmen 3 mm. 



Distribution. — The only previous records for the species are given 

 in the leading references, while the material now in hand from De 

 Funiak Springs, Jacksonville and St. Augustine, Fla., and "Florida," 

 carries the range to the south and west. The species is now known 

 from Georgia and Florida, all the definite records being from the 

 northern half and western extension of the latter State. 



Remarks. — The junior author, while in London several years ago, 

 examined the type of nigricollis in the British Museum and the asso- 

 ciation of the material in hand with this species is warrant* d by his 

 notes and recollections. His notes are as follows: "/. nigricollis, 

 Ga. Abdomen absent. Right half of pronotum damaged. Pro- 

 notum uniform dark brown same shade as central part of pronotum 

 of dark I. pensylvanica. Wings shining pale (color of I. johnsoni legs). 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



toward the base and extending up the middle they are slightly darker. 

 Legs same color as those of /. johnsoni." Several sketches accom- 

 pany the notes, making the identity even more positive. 



The small series of this species examined by us is sufficient to show 

 that its relationship is very close to /. deropeltiformis, the males also 

 looking like pale editions of /. johnsoni, from which, however, the 

 female can immediately be separated by the shape of the tegmina. 

 The only specimen we have examined with date was taken in April. 

 Specimens examined. — Six; five males, one female: 

 Jacksonville, Fla. Two males. (U. S. N. M. and Bruner Collection.) 

 St. Augustine, Fla. One male. (Morse Collection.) 

 De Funiak Springs, Fla. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Florida. One male, one female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn. 



1903. Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, p. 234. [St. Augustine, 



Florida.] (Date of issue September 3, 1903.) 

 1903. Ischnoptera intricata Blatchley, Orthopt. of Ind., p. 186, fig. 28. 



[Wyandotte, Crawford Count}', Steuben County, Indiana.] (Date of 



issue September 5, 1903.) 

 1905. Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1904, p. 779. [Thomasville, Georgia.] (Adult only.) 



1907. Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1907, p. 282. [Pablo Beach, Florida.] 



1908. Ischnoptera johnsoni Brimlev, Ent. News, XIX, p. 16. [Raleigh, 

 N.C.] 



Description. — d\ Size small; form moderately depressed, elongate 

 elliptical when wings are in repose. Head with only edge of occiput 

 visible from dorsum; antennae hardly longer than body. Pronotum 

 similar to deropeltiformis in shape with sulci of equal variability. 

 Tegmina exceeding apex of abdomen by from half of pronotal length 

 to more than length of same, narrow, subequal; costal margin with 

 little proximal arcuation; greatest width contained about three and 

 one-half times in length, apex rounded; venation distinct; costal 

 field quite narrow, proximal. Wings as long as tegmina when in repose ; 

 ulnar vein with three to four complete rami reaching the apex of the 

 wing, incomplete rami varying from two to eight in number. Supra- 

 anal plate and cerci almost identical with those parts in deropeltiformis. 



Head, pronotum, dorsum of abdomen, venter and coxae pitch black 

 or brownish-black, tegmina paling from this shade proximad to tawny- 

 olive distad, darkest along humeral trunk. Wings hyaline, veins 

 brownish and costal margin suffused with same. Limbs tawny 

 ochraceous. Abdominal appendages blackish. 



9 . Size rather small ; form moderately depressed, elliptical, greatest 

 width abdominal. Head completely hidden under pronotum; antennae 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



somewhat shorter than body. Pronotum subtrigona! in outline, 

 greatest length contained one and one-half times in width, cephalic 

 margin narrow, subarcuate, rounding to the oblique gently arcuate 

 lateral margins, caudal margin subtruncate, caudo-lateral angles 

 rounded rectangulate ; disk in transverse section subarcuate, slightly 

 more bent laterad and subdepressed dorsad ; margins strongly cingulate 

 laterad; surface with no distinct sulci. Tegmina sublanceolate, 

 non-attingent, about as long as pronotum, reaching to apex of first 

 abdominal segment, greatest width contained one and one-quarter 

 to one and one-third times in length, apex rounded acute, costal 

 margin considerably arcuate; interspace between tegmina equal to a 

 third of width of tegmen; venation reduced, anal sulcus distinct and 

 reaching more than half way to apex. Wings abbreviate, almost as 

 long as tegmina. Supra-anal plate transverse trigonal, apex rounded, 

 margins very slightly concave; cerci depressed, fusiform. 



General color varying from uniform pitch black to pitch black and 

 burnt sienna, the latter in extreme form most distinct on head, anten- 

 nae, pronotum, mesonotum, metanotum, costal field of tegmina, proxi- 

 mal portions of proximal abdominal segments 

 and venter of abdomen. Limbs varying from s *\ = / > ' ^^xU^ 



blackish brown to tawny ochraceous. Eyes 



, , . , . ,, Figs. 5 and 6. — Isch- 



blackish; supra-antennal spots quite small, noptera johnsoni 



pale yellowish. Abdominal appendages blackish. Rehn. Supra-anal 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 12.5- (x 3). Male; Raleigh, 

 18.5 mm.; length of pronotum 3-3.5 mm.; N.C.: female; Ches- 

 greatest width of pronotum 4-4.8 mm. ; length 

 of tegmen 11.5-14.6 mm.; greatest width of tegmen 3.5-4.6 mm. 



9 . Length of body 10.5-13.5 mm. ; length of pronotum 3.5-3.8 mm; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5-5.6 mm.; length of tegmen 3.8-4.5 mm; 

 greatest width of tegmen 2.8-3 mm. 



Distribution. — The range of this species is now known to extend 

 from eastern Massachusetts (Wellesley) and northeastern Indiana 

 (Steuben County) south to southern Florida (Dade County) and west 

 to eastern Texas (Hockley). Its zonal distribution appears to be 

 Upper and Lower Austral, trespassing on the lower portion of the 

 Transition. 



Remarks. — In the male sex this species appears to decrease in size 

 southward, Georgia and Florida material of that sex being considerably 

 smaller than New Jersey and North Carolina individuals, although the 

 single Texan male seen is equal in size to North Carolina specimens 

 In the female sex, however, this geographic variation is not apparent, 

 and it is possible that the apparent size correlation in the male may 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



be due to the rather small size of the series examined. The dates on 

 material range from February to October, the form being from New 

 Jersey, the latter from Maryland. 



Specimens examined. — Twenty-three; fourteen males, nine females: 

 Wellesley, Mass. One female. (Morse Collection.) 

 Dauphin, Pa. One female. (Penna. Div. of Zool.) 



Haddonfield, X. J. One female. (A. N. S. P.) 

 New Jersey. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Chestertown, Md. One female. (A. N. S. P.) 

 Plummer's Island, Md. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Washington. D. C. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Sulphur Springs, N. C. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Raleigh, N. C. Four males. (U. S. X. M.and A. N. S. P.) 

 Wilmington. Xorth Carolina. One male. (Brooklyn Inst. Art 

 and Sci.) 



Nashville, Tenn. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Thomasville, Ga. One male. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Pablo Beach. Fla. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 

 St. Augustine, Fla. One male. (A. X. S. P.) Type. 

 Florida. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Cedar Keys. Fla. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Enterprise. Fla. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 

 Dade County, Fla. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 

 Hockley. Tex. Two males. (U. S. X. M.) 



Ischnoptera americana (Scudder). 



1900. Loboptera americana Scudder, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Nat. Sci., VIII, 



p. 93, pi. 2, fig. 4. [Ehrenberg, Colorado River, Arizona.] 

 1900. Loboptera americana Scudder. Canad. Entom., XXXII, p. 329. [Cahon 



Pass, Gal.] 

 1905. Ischnoptera consobrina Baker (not of Saussure), Invertebrata Pacifica, 



I, p. 72. [Claremont, Cal.] 

 1910. Ischnoptera consobrina Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure), Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909. p. 415. [Pasadena, Cal.] 



Description. — d\ Size small; form elongate-elliptical, depressed; 

 surface glabrous. Head but slightly projecting cephalad of cephalic 

 margin of pronotum; interspace between eyes but very slightly less 

 than that between antennal scrobes; antennse slightly longer than 

 body. Pronotum in outline transverse subovate, slightly flattened 

 caudad and more decidedly arcuate cephalad, lateral margins rounding 

 into slightly arcuate caudal margin, greatest width distinctly caudad 

 of middle; oblique diverging sulci deeply and broadly impressed; 

 lateral portions considerably deflected ventrad. Tegmina elongate, 

 lanceolate, apex rounded, length about four and a half to five times 

 that of pronotum, greatest width contained about three times in 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



length ; costal margin gently arcuate, costal field narrow, subpunctate. 

 Wings with three to five complete and three to four incomplete rami 

 to ulnar vein. Supra-anal plate truncate distad, laterad obliquely 

 concavo-emarginate, rounding into distal margin, greatest (proximal) 

 exposed width almost twice greatest exposed length; cerci depressed 

 fusiform. 



General color varying from tawny-ochraceous to prout's brown, uni- 

 form dorsad except for pale costal field of tegmina; venter more mars 

 brown, becoming bistre distad on abdomen; eyes clove brown, supra- 

 antennal spots pale yellow ; wings slightly washed with clay color. 



9. Size small; form elliptical-ovate, moderately depressed; surface 

 subglabrous. Head but slightly projecting cephalad of cephalic 

 margin of pronotum; interspace between eyes greater than that 

 between antennal scrobes; antennae distinctly longer than body. 

 Pronotum semicircular, cephalic and lateral margins regularly arcuate, 

 caudal margin subtruncate, moderately arcuate in transverse section, 

 disk with no oblique sulci. Tegmina short, hardly exceeding caudal 

 margin of mesonotum, subacuminate, lobiform, separated by an 

 interspace equal to one and one-half times width of single tegmen, 

 apex bluntly rounded; costal field very broad proportionately, 

 punctate. Wings absent. Supra-anal plate trigonal, sub-produced, 

 slightly sinuate laterad, apex moderately acute; cerci rather short, 

 stout, fusiform, depressed, internal margin more arcuate excised 

 proximad than external margin. 



General color uniform, varying in shade from burnt umber to seal 

 brown, limbs very slightly paler. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 13.5-14.5 mm.; length of 

 pronotum 3-3.3; greatest width of pronotum 3.5-4; length of tegmen 

 13.2-16; greatest width of tegmen 4.2-5. 



9 . Length of body 10-11 mm. ; length of pronotum 2.9-3.5; greatest 

 width of pronotum 4-4.8; length of tegmen 1.5-1.9; greatest width of 

 tegmen 1.5-1.6. 



Distribution. — The published records and the material in hand show 



that the present species ranges from Oregon 



(no specific locality known) to Lower California 



(no specific data), extending east to Ormsby 



County, Nevada, and the lower Colorado Vallev Fi S s - J and 



J ' ; . . " noptera amencana 



(Ehrenberg, Arizona). Its maximum vertical (Scudder). Supra- 



elevation seems to be reached in Ormsby rw!£ at Li c \, and 



. ¥ (X7). Male;Pasa- 



County, Nevada. Nothing is known regarding dena, Cal.: female; 

 the habits of the species. The available dates Humboldt County, 

 are in June, July and August. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Remarks. — Mr. A. N. Caudell has compared one of the female 

 specimens before me with Scudder's type and his notes show them to 

 be the same. The correlation of the sexes is made with a considerable 

 degree of certainty, chiefly, however, on account of the absence of any 

 other species of native roach belonging to this subfamily in a good 

 portion of the territory over which this species is distributed. From 

 the material in hand the species appears to decrease in size southward, 

 as a male from Lower California is considerably smaller than individuals 

 of the same sex from the Los Angeles region and much inferior in size 

 to Ormsby County, Nevada, and one of two Oregon specimens. This, 

 however, may not be more than individual variation, as the other 

 Oregon male has the tegmina but little longer than the Lower Cali- 

 fornia specimen, although the pronotum is very appreciably larger. 

 Specimens examined. — Thirteen; ten males, three females: 

 Oregon. Two males. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Ormsby County, New One male. (Morse Collection.) 

 Bair's Ranch, Redwood Creek, Humboldt County, Cal. One female. 

 (U. S. X. M.) 

 San Jose, Cal. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Los Angeles, Cal. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Los Angeles County, Cal. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Pasadena, Cal. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 

 California. Two males, two females. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Lower California. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Ischnoptera pensylvanica (De Geer). 



1773. Blatta pensylvanica De Geer, Mem. l'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 537, pi. 14, 



fig. 4. [Penns} r lvania.] 

 1835. Blatta pensylvanica Harris, in Hitchcock, Rep. Geol. Mass., 2d ed., 



p. 576. [Massachusetts.] 

 1862. Bl[atta] borealis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e Scr., 



XIV, p. 166. [North America.] 

 1862. I[schnoptera] nortoniana Saussure, ibid., p. 169. [North America.] 

 1862. Platamodes pennsylvanica Scudder, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VII. 



p. 417. (Part.) [Indiana; Maryland.] 

 1862. Ectobia flavocincta Scudder, ibid., p., 419. (Part.) [Massachusetts; 



western States; Lake Superior.] 

 1864. Ischnoptera translucida Saussure, Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 85. 



[North America.] 



1864. Blatta borealis Saussure, ibid., p. 96, pi. 1, fig. 13. [North America.] 



1865. Ph[yllodromia] borealis Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 101. [North 

 America.] 



1865. I[schnoptera] pensylvanica Brunner, ibid., p. 135. (Part.) [Col- 

 ombia; North America; Indiana; Maryland.] 



1868. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Walker, Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 113. 

 [Canada; North America.] 



1870. Blatta (Phyllodromia) borealis Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. 

 Zool., VI, p. 42. [North America.] 



1870. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Saussure, ibid., p. 63, pi. II, fig. 35. [North 

 America.] 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



1872. Ischnoptera pensylvanica Walker, Canad. Entom., IV, p. 30. [Canada.] 

 1888. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Caulfield, Rep. Entom. Soc. Ontario, XVIII, 

 p. 72. [Montreal; Abbottsford, Quebec] 



1888. Temno pter y x marginata Caulfield (not of Scudder), ibid., p. 72. [Mon- 

 treal.] 



1889. Plata-modes pennsylvanica Davis, Ent. Amer., V, p. 81. [Staten 

 Island, N. Y.j 



1890. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Smith, Catal. Ins. N. J., p. 406. [New- 

 Jersey; Caldwell, N. J.] 



1894. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Beutenmiiller, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. 



Hist., VI, p. 259. [New York.] 

 1894. Ectobia borealis Beutenmiiller, ibid., p. 261. [New York.] 

 1894. Ectobia fiavocincta Blatchley, Proc. Ind. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1892, p. 161. 



[Marshall, Putnam and Vigo Counties, Indiana.] (Part.) 



1896. Ectobia borealis Davis, Proc. Nat. Sci. Asso. Staten Island, V. p. 97. 

 [Staten Island, N. Y.] 



1897. Ectobia flavo-cincta Blatchley, Proc. Ind. Hortic. Soc, 1896, p. 20. 

 [Indiana.] (Part.) 



1897. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Blatchley, ibid., pp. 7 and 20. [Indiana.] 



(Part.) 

 1900. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Smith, Ins. N. J., p. 150. [Staten Island, 



Palisades, Caldwell, Westville, Angelsea, N. J.] 

 1900. Phyllodromia borealis Smith, ibid., p. 150. [Staten Island, Greenwood 



Lake, Ft. Lee, Ocean County, N. J.] 

 1900. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Scudder, Psyche, IX, p. 99. [Winthrop, 



Massachusetts; Montreal.] 

 1900. Phyllodromia borealis Scudder, ibid., p. 100. [Prout's Neck, Scarboro, 



Maine; Boston, Mass.; Conn.] 

 1900. Ischnoptera Pennsylvania Henshaw, Psyche, IX, p. 119. [Rhode 



Island.] 

 1903. Ischnoptera Pennsylvania Blatchley, Orth. of Ind., p. 179. [Indiana.] 



(Part.) 

 1907. Ischnoptera Pennsylvania Tucker, Sci. Bull. Kans. Univ., IV, no. 2, 



p. 71. [Oil City, Venango County, Pa.] 



Description. — d\ Size large (for the genus) ; form elongate-lanceolate, 

 moderately depressed; surface subglabrous. Head with edge of 

 occiput visible cephalad of pronotal margin; interocular space 

 slightly less than that between antennal scrobes; antennae consider- 

 ably exceeding the body in length. Pronotum transversely subovate, 

 very slightly produced and narrowed cephalad, cephalic margin sub- 

 truncate, lateral margins gently arcuate, caudal margin arcuate, 

 caudo-lateral angles rounded, placed caudad of medio-transverse line 

 of pronotum, greatest length contained one and one-third to one and 

 one-half times in greatest width ; disk of pronotum distinctly deplan- 

 ate, deflected laterad, divergent oblique sulci distinctly indicated. 

 Tegmina elongate lanceolate, lateral margins subparallel, length four 

 and one-half to five times that of pronotum, greatest width contained 

 three and one-quarter to three and one-half times in length; costal 

 margin arcuate proximad, nearly straight beyond, apex rather narrowly 

 rounded. Wings ample, ulnar vein with four to six complete and 

 one to three incomplete rami. Supra-anal plate transverse, truncate 

 to very obtuse-angulate distad. obliquely emarginate laterad, the angles 

 rounded; cerci terete, moniliform. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



General dorsal color varying from clay color to prout's brown, 

 pronotal maculation and general suffusion of tegmina varying from 

 raw umber to clove brown, pronotal disk occasionally much darker 

 than tegmina; discal maculation of pronotum with lateral margins 

 sinuate, in some cases reaching, in others not reaching, cephalic 

 and caudal margins, lateral portions subhyaline to opaque buff. 8 

 Head clove brown or with face alone that color or vandyke brown ; 

 supra-ocular spots dull yellow ; antenna same as general color. Teg- 

 mina with costal margin, particularly of costal field, pale, usually sub- 

 hyaline; humeral trunk darker than any other portion. Wings slightly 

 infumate. Abdomen varying from tawny-olive to bistre, on the venter 



usually paler laterad and mesad. Limbs varying 



\~/* ^\F^ ^ith general coloration, spines darker. 



„. 9 . General size rather large (for genus) ; 



Pigs. 9 and 10.— Ischr , „. .. , , . & . f. 



nop/era pensylvani- I0rm elliptical, depressed, tegmina reaching or 



ca (De Geer) Jhipra- falling slightly short of apex of abdomen; 

 and 9 (X2J). Male; surface glabrous. Head hardly visible cephalad 



Pennsylvania: t>- of pronotal margin; interspace between eyes 

 male; Camp Hill, Pa. , J , , b ,. , ., ., ., .; , 



subequal to or \-eiy slightly wider than that 



between antennal scrobes; antennae very slightly longer than body. 



Pronotum considerably broader than long, lateral and cephalic margins 



arcuate, slightly subtruncate meso-cephalad, very slightly oblique 



subtruncate laterad, caudal margin subarcuate to arcuato-truncate, 



caudo-lateral angles rounded obtuse-angulate; disk moderately 



deplanate, declivent laterad. oblique sulci hardly indicated. Tegmina 



from two to two and one-half times length of pronotum, greatest 



width subequal to pronotal length : costal margin regularly arcuate, 



apex obliquely rotundato-subtruncate; costal field moderately 



broad, rather short, costal veins regularly oblique subparallel, anal 



sulcus reaching to slightly proximad or distad of middle of sutural 



margin. Wings either distinctly shorter than tegmina or reaching 



to tips of same; ulnar vein with four to five complete and one to two 



incomplete rami. Supra-anal plate trigonal, the apex acute, 9 more or 



less distinctly carinate medio-longitudinally; cerci depressed sub- 



ensiform, acute. 



General color varying from tawny-olive to mummy-brown, pronotal 



8 Rarely the pale lateral portions are reduced to mere lines and in two cases 

 the disk has a paler medio-longitudinal line. 



9 In one specimen (Marion County, Ind.) it is blunter than in the others, but 

 the length of tegmina, form of pronotum and general appearance seems to indicate 

 its proper place in this species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



maculation from raw umber to seal brown. Head entirely or with at 

 least dorsal portion of face darker than remainder and varying from 

 ferruginous to blackish; antennae varying in conformity with general 

 coloration; supra-antennal and ocellar spots pale yellow. Pronotum 

 with maculation confluent with caudal margin, confluent with or 

 separated from cephalic margin, 10 lateral portions varying from buff to 

 ochraceous. Tegmina with costal field subhyaline, pale yellowish. 

 Abdomen seal brown dorsad, margined laterad with buffy; venter 

 similar to dorsum of abdomen but slightly paler, margined in similar 

 fashion. Limbs pale ochraceous, spined and lined with dark brown. 



Measurements. — 9. Length of body, 20-22 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum, 4-5; greatest width of pronotum, 5.6-6.1; length of tegmen. 

 21-24.5; greatest width of tegmen, 6-7. 



9. Length of body 13.5-17 mm.; length of pronotum 4.5-5; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5.5-7.2; length of tegmen 12.5 ;" greatest 

 width of tegmen 5-5.5. 



Distribution. 12 — The fact that /. pensylvanica and /. incequalis are 

 really geographic races of the same species merging one into the other, 

 makes the delimiting of the range of either one quite difficult, and it 

 has been necessary to restrict our consideration to material actually in 

 hand, records based on the same and references bej^ond question on 

 account of the occurrence of but one of the two forms in that region. 

 From such evidence /. pensylvanica is known to range from Quebec 

 Province, Canada (Montreal and Abbotsford) south to North Carolina 



10 Occasionally the maculation is obsoletely divided medio-longitudinally by 

 obscure ochraceous-rufous. 



11 The smallest specimen available has tegmina as long as the largest. The 

 tegmina range in size down to 10.5 mm. 



12 Owing to the close relationship of Ischnoptera pensylvanica and /. p. in- 

 osqualis and the intergradation of the same in the central West, it is extremely 

 dimcult and sometimes impossible to properly place references. The references 

 here given cannot be satisfactorily located without securing the material on 

 which they are based, this being impossible in a number of cases. 



1787. [Blatta] cincta Fabricius, Mant. Ins., I, p. 226. [America.] 



1862. Platamodes pennsylvanica Scudder, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VII. 



p. 417. (Part.) [Indiana; Maryland.] 

 1865. Blatta pennsylvanica Thomas, Trans. 111. State Agric Soc, V. p. 440. 



[Illinois.] 

 1872. Platamodes pennsylvanica Glover, 111., N. A. Ent., Orth., pi. I, figs. 



1 and 3. 

 1891. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica McNeill, Psyche, VI, p. 78. [Southern 



Illinois.] 

 1894. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Garman, Sixth Ann. Rep. Kentucky Exp. 



Sta., p. 10. [Kentucky.] 

 1894. Ectobia flavocincta Garman, ibid., p. 10. [Lexington, Kent.] 

 1904. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Mead, Ohio Nat., IV. No. 5, p. 111. [Cedar 



Point, Ohio.l 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and northern Alabama (Decatur), east as far as southwestern Maine 

 (Scarboro), coast of New Jersey and Raleigh, N. C, west at least to 

 west-central Indiana (Putnam County), and western Wisconsin (Polk 

 County). Its intergradation with /. p. incequalis is known to take 

 place in Indiana, as from that State typical material of each has been 

 taken in addition to other almost intermediate in character. What 

 the distribution of the species in the northern lake States and Ontario 

 is can only be conjectured, but its presence in Polk County, Wisconsin, 

 is evidenced by a typical though rather pale male example. Its ver- 

 tical range appears to extend from sea-level to at least 2,500 feet 

 (Sulphur Springs, N. C). 



The dates on the niateri \\ before us range from May to August. 



Remarks. — In size there is considerable variation in both sexes, 

 apparently without relation to locality, and in coloration the range 

 in intensity is considerable, equally individual in character as far as 

 can be determined. 



The synonymy given for the species had been established by pre- 

 vious authors. 



Specimens examined. — Forty-two; twenty-one males, twenty-one 

 females : 



Ithaca. N. Y. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Hudson, N. Y. One female. (Morse Collection.) 



Stat en Island, X. Y. One male. (Brunei- Collection.) 



Danville, Pa. One male. (Penna. Div. Zool.) 



Fisher's Ferry, Pa. One male. (Penna. Div. Zool.) 



Camphill, Pa. One female. (Penna, Div. Zool.) 



Harrisburg, Pa. Two females. (Penna. Div. Zool.) 



Lehigh Gap, Pa. One female. (A. N. S. P.) 



Pennsylvania. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Da Costa, N. J. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 



Laurel, Del. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Maryland. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Glendale, Md. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Near Lloyds, Md. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Washington, D. C. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



District of Columbia. One male, tw T o females. (Bruner Collection.) 



Falls Church, Ya. One male, two females. (U. S. N. M.) 



Montgomery County, Ya, One male. (Hebard Collection.) 



Virginia. One male, two females. (U. S. N. M. and A. N. S. P.) 



Tryon, N. C. Three males. (U. S. N. M.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Raleigh, N. C. One male, one female. (U. S. N. M. and Hebard 

 Collection.) 



Asheville, N. C. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Sulphur Springs, N. C. One male. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Decatur, Ala. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Marion County, Ind. Two females. (Hebard and Blatchley Col- 

 lections.) 



Putnam County, Ind. One female. (Blatchley Collection.) 

 Steuben County, Ind. One female. (Blatchley Collection.) 

 Crawford County, Ind. Two males. (Blatchley Collection.) 

 Polk County, Wis. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Ischnoptera pensylvanica inaequalis (Saussure and Zehntner). 



1864. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Saussure (not of De Geer), Mem. l'Hist. 

 Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 84. [Kansas.] 



1872. Temnopteryx marginata Scudder, Final Report U. S. Geol. Surv. 

 Neb., p. 251. [Banks of Platte River.] 



1876. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Thomas (not of De Geer), Proc. Daven- 

 port Acad. Nat. Sci., I, p. 249. [Iowa.] 



1876. Platamodes pennsylvanica Scudder (not of De Geer), Bull. U. S. 

 Geol. Sur. Terr., II, p. 267. [Salina, Kan.] 



1885. Ischnoptera pennsylvajiica Bruner (not of De Geer), Bull. Washburn 

 Coll., I, p. 125. [Topeka, Kan.] 



1892. Platamodes pennsylvanica Osborn (not of De Geer), Proc. Iowa 

 Acad. Sci., I, pt. 2, p. 117. [Iowa.] 



1893. Ischnoptera pemisylvanica Bruner (not of De Geer), Publ. Neb. 

 Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 21. [Eastern half of Nebraska.] 



1893. Blatta borealis Bruner (not of Saussure), ibid., p. 21. [Valentine, 

 Neb.] 



1893. Ischnoptera incegualis Saussure and Zehntn., Biol. Cent.-Amer., 

 Orth., I, p. 36, pi. VI, figs. 14-17. [Texas; North Mexico.] 



1894. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Blatchley (not of De Geer), Proc. Ind. 

 Acad. Sci., 1892, p. 158. [Indiana.] 



1894. Ectobia flavocincta Blatchley, Proc. Ind. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1892, p. 161. 



[Marshall, Putnam and Vigo Counties, Indiana.] (Part.) 

 1897. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Ball (not of De Geer), Proc. Iowa Acad. 



Sci., IV, p. 235. [Iowa.] 

 1897. Ectobia flavo-cincta Blatchley, Proc. Ind. Hortic. Soc, 1896, pp. 18 



and 20. [Indiana.] (Part.) 



1897. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Blatchley, ibid., pp. 7 and 20. [Indiana.] 

 (Part.) 



1898. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Lugger (not of De Geer), Bull. 55, Minn. 

 Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 186, fig. 58. [Minnesota.] 



1902. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Caudell (not of De Geer), Trans. Amer. 

 Entom. Soc, XXVIII, p. 83. [Creek Nation, Indian Territory; Still- 

 water, Oklahoma.] 



1903. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Blatchlev, Orth. of Ind., p. 179. [Indiana.] 

 (Part.) 



1903. Ischnoptera inaequalis Blatchley, ibid., p. 182. [Crawford County, 

 Indiana.] 



1904. Ischnoptera couloniana Caudell (not of Saussure), Sci. Bull. Mus. 

 Brooklyn Inst. Arts Sci., I, no. 4, p. 105. [Esperanza Ranch and San 

 Tomas Ranch, Brownsville, Texas.] 



1905. Ischnoptera pennsylvanica Isely (not of De Geer), Trans. Kansas 

 Acad. Sci., XIX, p. 239. [Clearwater, Wichita and Fairview, Kan.] 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1907. Ischnoptera incequalis Hart, Bull. 111. State Labor. Nat. Hist., VII, 

 art. VII, p. 230. [Devil's Neck, Devil's Hole and Havana, Illinois; 

 Iowa.] 



1909. Ischnoptera incequalis Tucker, Ent. News, NN, p. 296. [Piano, 

 Collin County, Tex.] 



Description. — d\ Size, shape and surface similar to /. pensylvanica 

 from which differential characters alone will be given. Tegmina 

 four to five times length of pronotum. the width as in pensylvanica. 

 Wings with from two to six complete and none to two incomplete 

 rami. Supra-anal plate similar to that of pensylvanica but with distal 

 margin more distinctly obtuse-angulate. 



General dorsal color varying from prout's brown to seal brown, 

 pale borders of pronotum and costal field buff, this color less extensive 

 on tegmina than in pensylvanica and much more contrasted. Pronotal 

 maculation solid, broadly confluent with caudal margin and narrowly 

 so with cephalic margin, lateral outlines of maculation sharply defined, 

 more or less sinuate mesad. Tegmina in paler specimens with humeral 

 trunk somewhat darker than general color. Abdomen varying from 

 burnt umber to seal brown, darker laterad and distad. Limbs varying 

 from pale ochraceous to burnt umber. 



9. Size, shape and surface similar to /. pensylvanica but tegmina 

 normally reaching only to middle of abdomen. 13 Pronotum with 

 even less trace of oblique sulci than in /. pensylvanica. Tegmina 

 from one and one-half times to twice 13 pronotal length, sub- 

 acuminate ovate or very rarely subquadrate, 14 costal margin rather 

 strongly arcuate, apex more or less narrowly rounded; anal sulcus 

 reaching to or slightly distad of middle of sutural margin; costal 

 field rather broad, reaching almost to middle of tegmen. Wings 

 very small, hardly more than half of pronotal length. Supra-anal 

 plate trigonal; cerci as in /. pensylvanica. 



General color seal brown, rarely burnt umber, pronotal maculation 

 very similar in shape to that of male, but margins usually less sinuate, 

 lateral borders pale ochraceous including also costal field of tegmina, 

 the latter strongly contrasted with remainder of dorsum; abdomen 

 uniform seal brown dorsad ; 15 venter vandyke brown ; limbs pale ochra- 



13 One female from Steuben County and two females from Crawford County. 

 Indiana, have tegmina reaching to within a very short distance of the apex of 

 the abdomen, but this is due to intergradation with typical /. pensylvanica. 



14 This is true of one female from Vigo County, Indiana. In this the tegmina 

 are obliquely sinuato-truncate distad. 



16 The single Steuben County, Indiana, female and three others of the same 

 sex from Crawford County, Indiana show an approach to true /. pensylvanica 

 in having the margins of the abdomen dull clay color. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



ceous washed distad with brownish; face more or less completely seal 



brown, usually pale ventrad of line between 



antennae. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 16-19 



mm.; length of pronotum 4-4.8; greatest Figs. 11 and 12.— -/.sc/t- 



; ° L ° no pier a pensijlvani- 



width of pronotum 5.2-5.8; length of tegmen ca incequalis (S.-Z.). 



17-22.5; greatest width of tegmen 5.2-6.5. % lv , m :?? al ¥*n*,£ 

 o O (X4) and ¥ (3). 



9. Length of body 13.5-15.5 mm.; length of Male; Columbus , 

 pronotum 4.5-5; greatest width of pronotum Tex.: female; Piano, 



6-6.5; length of tegmen 6.2-1 1; 16 greatest 

 width of tegmen 4-4.5. 



Distribution. — From the material in hand and undoubted references 

 this form is known to range from Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana and 

 Nebraska south to northern Mexico, having been recorded from 

 Iowa, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas in addition to the States pre- 

 viously mentioned. It is quite probable that this race will be found 

 to occupy the greater portion of the Mississippi Valley, intergradating 

 to the east with /. pensylvanica and westward extending to the edge 

 of the Great Plains, penetrating the sandhill country of Nebraska 

 along the river valleys, as records from Badger and Valentine testify. 

 Typical material has been examined from Crawford, Lake, Marshall, 

 Marion and Vigo Counties, Ind. Other material from Crawford County 

 approaches /. pensylvanica. Its vertical distribution appears to be 

 from near sea-level (Columbus, Tex.) to the above mentioned Nebraska 

 localities, situated two thousand to two thousand five hundred feet 

 above the sea. Its seasonal appearance extends from May to Sep- 

 tember according to data in the material examined. 



Remarks. — The typical condition of this race is rather decidedly 

 marked and but for the presence of intermediate material it would 

 have to be considered a valid species. However, the testimony 

 of such material as we have been able to examine from Indiana 

 demonstrates intergradation with the eastern and northern /. pensyl- 

 vanica. There is no doubt about the identity of Scudder's Temnop- 

 teryx marginata with this species, as the description absolutely fits 

 the adult female, but unfortunately a prior Ischnoptera marginata 

 (Brunner, 1865) precludes the use of the name for this species. 



Specimens examined. — Thirty-seven ; nineteen males, eighteen females : 



Minnesota. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



St. Joseph, 111. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Illinois. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



10 The maximum measurements are only found in Steuben and Crawford County, 

 Indiana, specimens. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Crawford County, Ind. Two males, seven females. (XJ. S. N. M., 

 Hebard and Blatchley Collections.) 



Steuben County, Ind. One female. (U. S. N. M., Hebard and 

 Blatchley Collections.) 



Vigo County, Ind. Three males, one female. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Lake County, Ind. One female. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Pine, Lake County, Ind. One male. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Marshall County, Ind. One female. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Marion County, Ind. One male. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Missouri. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



St. Louis, Mo. One male. (IT. S. N. M.) 



Iowa City, la. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Onaga, Kan. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Fort Riley, Kan. One male. (U. 8. X. M. ) 



Hiawatha, Kan. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Valentine, Xeb. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



West Point, Xeb. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Badger, Xeb. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Lincoln, Neb. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Xebraska City, Xeb. One male, one female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Dallas, Tex. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Piano, Tex. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Columbus, Tex. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, Tex. One male. (Brooklyn Inst. 

 Art and Sci.) 



Texas. Two males. (U. S. X. M.) 



Ischnoptera divisa Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Ischnoptera divisa Saussure and Zehntner. Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 



I, p. 40. [Georgia; North Mexico.] 

 1908. Ischnoptera couloniana Brimley (not of Saussure), Ent. News, XIX, 



p. 16. [Raleigh, North Carolina.] 



Description. — d\ Size rather small; form elongate elliptical, 

 moderately depressed; surface glabrous. Head slightly projecting 

 cephalad of pronotal margin; interspace between eyes distinctly 

 narrower than that between antennal scrobes ; antennae considerably 

 exceeding body in length. Pronotum transverse elliptical in shape, 

 very rarely slightly produced and narrowed cephalad; cephalic and 

 caudal margins arcuato-truncate, broadly rounded laterad ; disk with 

 more or less decided divergent oblique sulci, frequently with a few 

 pairs of median indentations; lateral portions more or less distinctly 

 deflected. Tegmina elongate', subequal, exceeding apex of abdomen 

 by at least length of pronotum, greatest width contained about three 

 and one-half times in length, which is four to four and one-half times 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



that of pronotum; apex very slightly rotundato-angulate ; costal 

 field moderately broad, translucent. Wings with four to five complete 

 and one to three incomplete rami to ulnar vein. Supra-anal plate 

 subtrigonal, with median portion narrower than in I. pensylvanica, 

 more decidedly concavo-emarginate laterad; cerci depressed, monili- 

 form, slightly fusiform. 



General color much as in /. pensylvanica but with lighter shades 

 on pronotum and tegmina much paler, subhyaline cream-buff, humeral 

 trunk very narrowly indicated. Discal maculation on pronotum as 

 in pensylvanica but frequently with pale medio-longitudinal dividing 

 line, maculation vandyke brown. Venter prout's brown, occasionally 

 bistre cephalad, limbs similar to venter but in part at least slightly 

 paler; supra-antennal spots yellowish; antennae of ventral color. 

 Pale border on pronotum occasionally buff. 



9. Size medium; form much as in same sex of /. pensylvanica. 

 Head with but extreme occiput visible cephalad of pronotum; inter- 

 space between eyes but slightly less than that between antennal 

 s3robes; antennae very slightly longer than body. Pronotum semi- 

 elliptic, cephalic and lateral margins regularly arcuate, caudal margin 

 arcuato-truncate, caudo-lateral angles rounded rectangulate, greatest 

 length about two-thirds greatest width; disk deplanate, lateral 

 portions considerably deflected. Tegmina about one and two-thirds 

 times length of pronotum, apices reaching to third abdominal seg- 

 ment, sublanceolate, subacute, costal margin regularly and con- 

 siderably arcuate; costal field rather short, comparatively broad, 

 anal sulcus joining sutural margin slightly distad of middle of latter, 

 costal veins regular, obliquely parallel. Wings aborted, functionless, 

 not reaching caudad of first abdominal segment. Supra-anal plate 

 trigonal, margins concavo-emarginate, apex well rounded; cerci 

 depressed fusiform. 



General coloration much as in /. pensylvanica but paler; pronotal 

 maculation indicated more or less distinctly 17 

 by a hazel wash, occasionally clouded with 'ST/ 7 ' S \~/ 7 ' 

 bistre and frequently divided medio-longitu- 



dinallv. margins buff or ochre yellow; tegmina Figs. 13 and 14.— Isch- 



, noptera divisa S.-Z. 



ochraceous, tawny ochraceous or raw umber. Supra-anal plate of 



subhyaline costad; abdomen olive to clove d , (X5)aiid 9 (X4). 



brown, margined laterad with buff or clay color; 



limbs pale ochraceous, spines and carinas burnt umber; face usually 



17 Almost lacking in one specimen (Rives, Tenn.) which has the disk ochre 

 yellow and margins almost hyaline. 



28 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



marked mesad with vandyke brown, extending from interocular 

 space to mouth parts, usually involving latter. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 13.5-17.5 mm.; length of 

 pronotum 3.5-4; greatest width of pronotum 4.5-5; length of tegmen 

 15.8-18.5; greatest width of tegmen 4.8-5.5. 



$. Length of body 11.5-16.5 mm.; length of pronotum 3.8-5; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5-6; length of tegmen 7-9; greatest width 

 of tegmen 3.5-4.8. 



Distribution. — Available data show that the present species ranges 

 from Southern New Jersey (Anglesea) to Georgia, west to North 

 Mexico, and northward in the Mississippi Valley at least as far as 

 Northwestern Tennessee (Rives). The data are so meagre that 

 almost no idea of its vertical range can be formed. 



The dates on the material range from M&f 22 to July 23. 



Remarks. — After careful comparison this name has been placed 

 on this species and in all the characters but two given in the brief 

 original diagnosis the males in the present series agree, the two being 

 the number of rami of the ulnar vein of the wing and the shape of the 

 supra-anal plate. Saussure and Zehntner give for the former "ramis 

 apicalibus 3, incompletis 1-2, i?istructa," the latter holding true for 

 the material in hand (three sometimes present), but the number of 

 complete rami is four to six, suggesting that even greater variability 

 than our specimens exhibit is present in the species, or that the original 

 "3" was a typographical error for five. Regarding the supra-anal 

 plate, it is produced to a certain extent mesad with the margin rotun- 

 dato-truncate, and Saussure and Zehntner's u lamina supra-anali 

 rotundata" probably means in contradistinction to the more markedly 

 trigonal form found in some species of the genus. 



This form is very closely related to /. pensylvanica, but what position 

 it should bear in reference to the latter species can only be determined 

 when more material and information is available. The very pale 

 color or almost absence of coloration, combined with the decided 

 pronotal maculation makes the males appear quite distinct while the 

 supra-anal plate has a different facies, although the form of the latter 

 portion is occasionally approached in otherwise quite typical pensyl- 

 vanica. The tegminal characters of the female, the form of the 

 pronotum and of the subgenital plate differentiate that sex, although 

 some individuals of pensylvanica are hard to separate. However, 

 no female individuals of the latter species have been seen with 

 tegmina as short or as acute or with a subgenital plate as blunt and 

 as sinuate laterad as in divisa. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Specimens examined. — Twelve; six males, six females: 

 Anglesea, N. J. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Delaware. One male. (A. N. 8. P.) 

 Plummer's Island, Md. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 

 Raleigh, N. C. Five males, three females. (U. S. N. M., A. N. 8. P. 

 and Hebard Collection.) 



Rives, Tenn. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Ischnoptera couloniana Saussure. 



1862. [Ischnoptera] Couloniana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser. XIV, p. 169. [North America.] 



1864. Ischnoptera Couloniana Saussure, Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 83. 

 [United States.] 



1865. I[schnoptera] lata Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., pp. 135, 413. [North 

 America; St. Domingo. 18 ] (Exclusive of synonymy.) 



1869. Ischnoptera- hyalina Scudder, Trans, Amer. Ent. Soc, II, p. 307. 

 [Delaware.] 



1870. Ischnoptera Couloniana Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Recherch. 

 Zool., VI, p. 63. [United States; Mexico.] 



1893. Ischnoptera couloniana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 



Orth., I. p. 40. [Texas; Mexico.] 

 1893. Temnopteryx major Saussure and Zehntner, Biol, Cent.-Amer., Orth., 



I, p. 54. [Tennessee.] 

 1903. Temnopteryx major Rehn, Ent, News, XIV, p. 126. [Chestertown, 



Md.] 

 1903. Ischnoptera major Blatchley, Orthoptera of Ind., p. 183. [Wyandotte, 



Crawford County, Ind.] 

 1903. Ischnoptera hyalina Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, p. 325. [Examination 



of type.] 

 1905. Ischnoptera ino3qualis Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure and Zehn- 

 tner), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 779. [Thomasville, Ga.] 

 1905. Ischnoptera major Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1904, p. 780. [Thomasville, Tyty and Ocklockonee River, Thomas 



County, Ga.] 

 1908. Ischnoptera major Brimley, Ent. News, XIX, p. 16. [Raleigh, N. C] 



Description. — d\ Size large (for genns); form lanceolate, moder- 

 ately depressed; surface glabrous. Head with portion of occiput 

 visible cephalad of pronotunrwhen viewed from dorsum; interspace 

 between eyes varying considerably in width, distinctly narrower 

 than to as broad as that between antenna? ; antennae somewhat longer 

 than body. Pronotum transverse ovate, cephalic margin more arcuate 

 than caudal, supra-cephalic portion subtruncate, lateral angles very 

 broadly rounded; lateral portions more or less deflected; oblique 

 sulci distinct, the disk bordered cephalad of same with several impres- 

 sions on each side. Tegmina elongate, sublanceolate, three and 

 one-half to four and one-half times length of pronotum, their greatest 

 width contained three to three and one-half times in length; costal 

 margin considerably arcuate proximad, nearly straight mesad and 



18 Latter in error, due to Wrong association of synonymy. 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



distad, apex rotundato-acuminate; costal field moderately broad, 

 anal sulci joining sutural margin about two-fifths distance from base. 

 Wings from three to five complete and two to five incomplete rami. 

 Supra-anal plate produced rotundato-trigonal, arcuato-emarginate 

 laterad, apex rounded; cerci subdepressed. subequal proximad, tapering 

 distad. 



General color varying from very pale ochraceous to tawny, lateral 

 portions of pronotum buffy or whitish, costal field and portion of 

 remainder of costal margin of tegmina translucent, slightly tinted 

 with general color. Head with more or less distinct pale yellow supra- 

 antennal spots. Disk of pronotum frequently darker than general 

 color, varying from clay color to chestnut, usually distributed over 

 the disk as paired blotches or lines on base color, very rarely sub- 

 uniformly colored. Abdomen varying from ochraceous to vandyke 

 brown, darker caudad and laterad. Limbs ochraceous varying in shade. 



9. Size large (for genus); form elliptical, depressed; surface 

 glabrous. Head hardly visible cephalad of margin of pronotum; 

 inter-ocular space very slightly narrower than that between antennae. 

 Pronotum decidedly transverse, greatest length contained one and 

 three-fifths to one and three-fourths times in greatest width, regu- 

 larly arcuate laterad and cephalad, very slightly subtruncate dorsad 

 of head, caudal margin varying from arcuato-truncate to subtruncate, 

 lateral angle rounded; disk in section subarcuate, very slightly de- 

 flected laterad. Tegmina subquadrato-ovate, slightly longer than 

 pronotum, greatest width but slightly less than tegminal length, 

 distal margin broadly rounded; 19 costal field broad, reaching slightly 

 distad of middle of tegmen, anal sulcus reaching to about one-fourth 

 length of sutural margin from apex. Wings nearly as long as tegmina. 

 Abdomen broad, greatest width slightly exceeding that of pronotum; 

 supra-anal plate produced trigonal, apex acute, very rarely sub-fissate, 

 lateral margins arcuato-emarginate, surface considerably carinate 

 cephalo-caudad ; cerci depressed subfusiform. 



General color of head, pronotum, tegmina and limbs varying from 

 ochraceous to burnt umber, lateral portions of Pronotum more or less 

 distinctly ochraceous, costal portion of tegmina pale translucent 

 ochraceous. Abdomen seal brown, segments when extended seen 

 to be bay or maroon at bases. Face more or less distinctly maculate 

 with dark brown mesad. 



is Very rarely subtruncate or as rarely narrowly rounded. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 18.5-21.5 mm.; length of 



pronotum 4-5; greatest width of pronotum 



5.2-6.5; length of tegmen 18-25; greatest \^ '^XfP^ 



width of tegmen 5.5-7: 



9 . length of body 15.5-22.5 mm. ; length of Fi £ s - ] 5 and 16 ~ ***" 



. noptera couloniana 



pronotum 4.8-6; greatest width of pronotum Saussure. Supra- 



6.8-8.2 ; length of tegmen 6.2-8 ; greatest width anal £ la t e ?J L f fc , 4) 

 ° ft ' & and V (X 2J). Male; 



01 tegmen 4.5-5.5. Sulphur Springs, N. 



Distribution. — This species is now known to C. : female ; Chester- 



1 town, Md. 



range from Delaware and Maryland (Chester- 

 town and Laurel) south to at least northern Florida (Jacksonville), 

 west to at least eastern Texas (Hockley), north to Iowa and southern 

 Indiana (Crawford County). Outside of our limits it is also found 

 in Mexico. Its vertical distribution extends from sea-level to twenty- 

 five hundred feet elevation (Sulphur Springs). 



The dates on the material in hand range from January to August. 



Remarks. — The synonymy of this species has been established after 

 a very critical examination of the descriptions and the study of an 

 extensive series of specimens, including the type of hyalina. The 

 possibility of couloniana and major being the same has been suggested 

 by Blatchley, 20 but no attempt has been made up to the present time 

 to determine the true status of the names here synonymized. Saus- 

 sure and Zehntner's Temnopteryx major was, of course, based on the 

 short-winged female aud Brunner himself has shown the identity of 

 lata with couloniana, 21 while the possession of the type of hyalina 

 enables us to place Scudder's species with certainty. 



There is a very perceptible amount of color variation in this species. 

 of which the more usual type is that described by Blatchley 22 and 

 found in the type of hyalina, the disk of the male pronotum being pale 

 reddish ochraceous, while the other extreme, to which belonged the 

 type of couloniana, has this area more or less infuscate, particularly 

 cephalad. The depth of this infuscation is variable and it is some- 

 times only suggested by points and lines. In the female much the 

 same thing occurs as in the male, but usually less clearly defined. 



Such variation in size as is found appears to be purely individual 

 and has no geographic correlation. 



Some male specimens of this species bear a considerable resemblance 

 to individuals belonging to the pensylvanica-inxsqualis type, but we 



^Orthopt. of Indiana, p. 183 (1903). 



21 Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 413 (1865). 



22 Vide supra, p. 183. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



have experienced little difficulty in placing them. However, no true 

 intermediate specimens have been examined, although it is possible 

 that the species intergradate. 



Specimens examined. — Seventy; thirty-three males, thirty-seven 

 females : 



Delaware. 23 One male. (A. N. 8. P.) Type of hyalfna. 



Chestertown, Md. Two females. (A. X. S. P.) 



Glendale, Md. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Laurel, Md. Two females. (Bruner Collection.) 



Falls Church. Va. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Chain Bridge, Va. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Ocean View, Va, One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Raleigh, X. C. Sixteen males, twenty-one females. (U. S. X. M. 

 and Hebard Collection.) 



Sulphur Springs, X. C. Two males, one immature female. (Hebard 

 Collection.) 



Tryon, X. C. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Calhoun, S. C. One female. (U. S. X. M.) 



Thomasville, Ga. One male, one immature female. (Hebard 

 Collection.) 



Thomson Mills, Ga. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Jacksonville, Fla. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Florida, Two males, one female. (U. S. X. M. and Bruner Col- 

 lection.) 



Alabama. One male. (Morse Collection.) 



Crawford County, Ind. One male, four females. (A. N. S. P., 

 U. S. X. M.; Hebard Collection.) 



Iowa. Two males. (U. S. X. M.) 



Hockley, Tex. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Texas. Three males. (U. S. X. M.) 

 Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure. 24 



1862. I[schnoptera] uhleriana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie. 

 2e ser, XIV, p. 169. [Pennsylvania.] 



23 This specimen probably came from near Newark, Delaware, the home of 

 Dr. T. B. Wilson, who presented considerable Delaware collections. 



24 The following references are of uncertain application, as great confusion 

 has existed regarding /. uhleriana, u. fulvescens and borealis. The material in 

 hand furnishes evidence enough to justify their removal from the Saussurean 

 species' references. 



1876. Ischnoptera unicolor Thomas, Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., I, 



p. 250. [Iowa.] 

 1893. Temnopterxix virginica Bruner, Publ. Neb. Acad. Sci. III. p. 21. 



[Eastern part of Nebraska.] 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



1862. P[latamodes] unicolor Scudder, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 417. 



[Massachusetts.] 

 1862. E[ctobia] lithophila Scudder, ibid., p. 418. [Massachusetts.] 



1864. Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure, Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 82. 

 [Pennsylvania.] 



1865. T[emnopteryx] virginica Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 86. [Draper's 

 Valley, Va.] 



1865. l[schnoptera] unicolor Brunner, ibid., p. 134. [Massachusetts; North 



America.] 

 1870. Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, 



p. 55. [East Coast of North America.] 

 1870. Ischnoptera unicolor Saussure, ibid., p. 56. [North America.] 



1888. Ectobia lithophila Caulfield, Rep. Ent. Soc. Ontario, XVIII, p. 71. 

 [Welland, Ontario and westward.] 



1889. Platamodes unicolor Davis, Ent. Amer., V. p. 81. [Staten Island, 

 N. Y.] 



1S94. Ischnoptera unicolor Beutenmuller, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, 



p. 259. [New York.] 

 1894. Temnoptergx virginica Beutenmuller, ibid., p. 261. [New York.] 



1896. Temnopteryx virginica Davis, Proc. Nat. Sci. Asso. Staten Island 

 V. p. 97. [Staten Island, N. Y.] 



1900. I[schnoptera] unicolor Smith, Ins. N. J., p. 150. [Palisades, "Westville , 

 Clementon, Anglesea and Lahaway, N. J.] 



1900. I[schnoptera] uhleriana Smith, ibid., p. 150. [Anglesea, Newark 

 and Jamesburg, N. J.] 



1900. Temnopterijx virginica Smith, ibid., p. 150. [Staten Island; West- 

 ville, N. J.] 



1900. Ischnoptera uhleriana Scudder, Psyche, IX, p. 100. [Massachusetts; 

 Connecticut.] 



1908. Ischnoptera uhleriana Brimley, Ent. News. XIX, p. 16. [Raleigh, 

 N. C] 



Description. — d\ Size rather small; form elongate lanceolate; 

 surface glabrous. Head with occiput hardly projecting cephalad of 

 pronotum; interspace between eyes distinctly narrower than that 

 between antennae; antennae hardly surpassing tips of tegmina. Pro- 

 notum transverse elliptical, subtruncate cephalad, regularly arcuate 

 caudad, very slightly oblique-subtruncate cephalo-laterad, lateral 

 angles well rounded, slightly caudad of middle; oblique sulci strongly 

 marked, occasionally joined by an arcuate sulcus caudad; lateral 

 portions subdeclivent. Tegmina lanceolate, slightly widening to 

 about one-fourth of length from apex, length four and one-half 

 to five times length of pronotum, greatest width of tegmen con- 

 tained two and two-thirds to three times in length of same, greatest 



1893. Ischnoptera unicolor Bruner, ibid., p. 21. [Eastern Nebraska.] 



1894. Ischnoptera unicolor Blatchley, Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., 1892, p. 160. 

 [Terre Haute, Ind.] 



1897. Ischnoptera unicolor Ball, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., IV, p. 235. [Ames 

 and Oskaloosa, la.] 



1898. Ischnoptera unicolor Lugger, Bull. 55, Minn. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 187. 

 fig. 59. [Minnesota.] 



1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana. Blatchley, Orth. of Ind., p. 184. (Part.) 

 [Crawford, Vigo, Putnam, Marion, Kosciusko and Lake Counties, Ind.] 



1904. Ischnoptera uhleriana Mead, Ohio Nat., IV, No. 5, p. 111. [Ohio.] 

 1907. Ischnoptera uhleriana Tucker, Sci. Bull. Kansas Univ., IV, No. 2, 



p. 71. [Douglas County, Kan.] 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



width at third of length from apex, breadth there appreciably greater 

 than at one-third of length from base; costal margin arcuate, less so 

 mesad and distad than proximad, apex rotundato-acuminate, anal 

 sulcus reaching sutural margin one-third of length of latter from base. 

 Wings with from four to six complete and two to four incomplete 

 rami of ulnar vein. Supra-anal plate moderately produced, trigonal, 

 apex rather broadly rounded; cerci subdepressed, tapering distad, 

 subequal in width pr< ximad. 



General color ochraceous, varying toward tawny ochraceous in 

 some individuals, lateral portions of pronotum and costal field of teg- 

 mina frequently translucent, abdomen becoming prout's brown distad, 

 eyes blackish, face marked more or less solidly with prout's brown. 

 9. Size rather small; form elliptical-ovate, subdepressed; surface 

 subglabrous. Head almost completely hidden under pronotum ; 

 interspace between eyes slightly greater than that between antenna! 

 bases; antennas very slightly exceeding apex of abdomen. Pronotum 

 strongly arcuate laterad and cephalad, very narrowly subtruncate 

 dorsad of head, caudal margin truncato-arcuate, lateral angles rounded 

 rectangulate ; disk in section arcuate, oblique sulci absent. Tegmina 

 subquadrate, costal margin gently arcuate, discal margin slightly 

 oblique subtruncate, occasionally subsinuate, apex costal and well 

 rounded, disto-sutural angle rounded, anal sulcus reaching to disto- 

 sutural angle; costal field moderately broad. Wings as long as 

 tegmina. Supra-anal plate moderately produced, trigonal, lateral 

 margins more or less distinctly arcuato-emarginate, apex rounded, a 

 more or less decided medio-longitudinal carina present; cerci sub- 

 depressed, subfusiform. apex acute. 



General color ochraceous, abdomen with distal portions of segments 

 and often almost entire abdomen seal brown; eyes blackish. Tawny 

 occasionally suffuses disk of pronotum and entire tegmina aside from 

 costal field. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 13.5-17.5 mm.; length of 

 pronotum 3-3.2; greatest width of pronotum 4.2-4.8; length of teg- 

 men 15.5-19.5; greatest width of tegmen 5.5-6. 



< > ^\ T ^ J ?• Length of body 12-15; length of pro- 



notum 4-4.5; greatest width of pronotum 5-6.2; 

 ^plTVhleHana ^ngth of tegmen 3.8-4.5; greatest width of 



Saussure. Supra- tegmen 3.2-4.5. 



analglateof<^(^x5) Distribution.— Positive data for this species 



Delaware County, show the range to be more limited than is 



hurst f N 18 L' Lake " usuall y supposed to be the case. It is now 



known to range from Massachusetts, New York, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



and southeastern Ontario (Welland), south to North Carolina (Sulphur 

 Springs, Tryon, Raleigh and Wilmington 25 ), and as far as available 

 material is concerned not extending west of the Appalachians, all the 

 specimens examined from west of that range belonging to other forms, 

 while it is quite possible that Caulfield's Welland, Ontario, record 

 belongs to /. borealis. At Raleigh it meets the range of /. uhleriana 

 fulvescens, typical specimens of each and others about intermediate and 

 not easy to place being in the series from that locality. The months 

 represented in the series examined extend from April to July. 



Remarks. — The identity of unicolor with uhleriana has been estab- 

 lished by Scudder, and breeding experiments by Caudell have demon- 

 strated the specific identity of uhleriana and Temnopteryx virginica, 

 which latter was based on the short-winged female. The size variation 

 in the species is moderate, and in color the large series examined is 

 quite uniform, at least in the male sex. Saussure's uhleriana. appears 

 to be limited to the costal plain, Piedmont country and mountain 

 valleys replaced to the southward and in the middle and lower Mis- 

 sissippi Valley region by /. u. fulvescens, which reaches its extreme 

 development in Texas, and with which it apparently intergradates. 



Specimens examined. — -One hundred and twenty-three; one hundred 

 and seventeen males, seven females: 



Lakehurst, N. J. Two males, one female. (Brooklyn Inst. Arts 

 and Sci.) 



New Jersey. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Ridley Township, Delaware County, Pa. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Delaware. Tnree males. (A. N. S. P.) 



Plummer's Island, Md. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Tryon, N. C. Six males. (U. S. N. M.) 



Raleigh, N. C. Seven males, five females. 28 (Hebard Collection.) 



Sulphur Springs, N. C. Ninety-two males. (Hebard Collection.) 



Wilmington, N. C. One female. 28 (Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci.) 



North Carolina. Five males (Bruner Collection.) 



Isehnoptera uhleriana fulvescens Saussure and Zehntner. 



1877. Ischtwptera unicolor Scudder (not of Saussure, 1S62), Proc. Boston 



Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 92. [Fort Reed, Fla.] 

 1893. Isehnoptera uhleriana var. fulvescens Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. 



Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 36, pi. Ill, figs. 2 and 3 (tf). [Georgia; Texas; 



New Mexico. 27 ] 



25 The latter record is a tentative one, as it is based on a female, and /. u. fulves- 

 cens is separated only with great difficulty in that sex. 



28 Females from these localities are only tentatively assigned to typical uhler- 

 iana, as in that sex no valid character for separating u. fulvescens has been found. 



27 The localities given are for the species, no particular locality being cited 

 for the variety. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1893. Temnopteryx texensis Saussure and Zehntner, ibid., p. 52, pi. Ill, 

 fig. 31. [New Mexico; Tex.] 



1902. Ischnoptera unicolor Blatchley, A Nature Wooing, p. 21G. [Ormond, 

 Ma.] 



1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana Blatchley (not of Saussure, 1S62), Ortli. of 

 Ind., p. 184. (Part.) [Crawford! Vigo, Putnam, Marion, Kosciusko 

 and Lake Counties, Ind.] 



1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana Caudell (not of Saussure 1862), Proc. U. S, 

 Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 778. [Victoria, Texas.] 



1904. Ischnoptera uhleriana Caudell (not of Saussure. 1862), Sci. Bull. 

 Mus. Brooklyn Inst., I, p. 106. [Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, Tex.] 



1905. Ischnoptera uhleriana Caudell (not of Saus.-ure, 1862), Proc. U, S. 

 Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 462. (Part!) [Patagonia Mountains, Santa Rita 

 Mountains, and Huachuca Mountains, Ariz.] 



lOOo. Ischnoptera uJderiana Helm and Hehard (not of Saussure, 1862), 

 Proc. Aead. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1904. p. 780. [Thomas ville, Ga.] 



1909. Ischnoptera uhleriana Tucker (not of Saussure, 1862), Ent. News, 

 XX, p. 296. [Piano, Collin County, Tex.] 



Description. — d\ Very .similar to same sex of /. uhleriana, differing 



in the following points: pronotum ovate, greatest length contained 



one and one-third to one and two-fifths times in greatest width. 



lateral and cephalic margins regularly arcuate aside from subtruncate 



supra-occipital portion, caudal margin arcuate or broadly sub-obtus- 



angulate, lateral angles very broadly rounded; tegmina four to 



four and one-half times as long as pronotum, greatest width subequal 



to that of pronotum, median third of tegmina subequal in width; 



wings with four to five complete and one to three incomplete ulnar 



rami. 



Coloration as in /. uMeriana, hut usually more inclined toward pure 

 ochraceous, and with translucent lateral portions of pronotum and 

 costal section of tegmina more contrasted. 



$ . Does not appear to be separable from /. uhleriana by any one 

 character or set of characters. Coloration as in uhleriana, but rarely 

 pronotum is margined laterad and cephalad with a broad yellowish 

 area, which in a weakened character colors costal field of tegmina; 

 disk of pronotum rarely with an indefinite pattern. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 12-18 mm.; length of prono- 

 tum 2.8-3.8; greatest width of pronotum 3.6-4.8; length of tegmen 

 12.5-17; greatest width of tegmen 4-4.8. 



9. length of body 12.5-16.8; length of pronotum 4-4.5; greatest 

 width of pronotum 5.5-6.2; length of tegmen 4.1-4.8; greatest width 

 of tegmen 3.8-4. 



Distribution. — This austral race of /. uhleriana is known to range 

 from southeastern Virginia (Lake Drummond), east central North 

 Carolina (Raleigh), and southern Indiana (Crawford County), south to 

 at least central Florida (Ormond, Eustis and Fort Reed) and southern 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Texas (Brownsville), west to south-eastern 



Arizona (Huachuca Mountains). The material <" "> ^\~g^ 



examined was taken on dates ranging from ^ 



.March to August. Fi S s - J 9 and fj\J*t; 



6 noptera uhleriana 



Remarks. — Saussure and Zehntner's Temno- fulvescens&SLUss.and 

 pteryx texensis appears to be an absolute fnKate ofd^X 5) 

 synonym of their fidvescens, which has page and$(x4). Male; 

 precedence to warrant its usage, texensis having Imll^oXomhna! 

 been based on the female, while fulrescens was 



applied to the male. The center of maximum differentiation of this 

 form is in Texas, individuals from that State usually having the 

 characters separating the race from uhleriana most decided. The 

 size does not vary greatly in Texas and North Carolinan individuals, 

 but in southern Georgia and Florida there is a great diversity in size 

 of males, quite small specimens being in the minority in the Thomas- 

 ville series, and in the majority in the Jacksonville lot, while the single 

 Eustis, Florida male is the smallest seen and furnishes the minimum 

 measurements given above. From this it appears probable that 

 the form decreases in size southward in Florida. 



The coloration varies but little, the most striking type being that 

 seen in the figure of Temnoptcryx texensis (vide supra), which is almost 

 matched in a female before us from Brownsville, Texas, otherwise 

 inseparable from Florida individuals. There is, it might be added, 

 some slight variation in the amount of sinuation to the distal margin 

 of the female tegmina. The specimen from Lake Drummond, Va., 

 shows strong tendencies toward true uhleriana. 



Specimens examined. — Forty-seven; forty males, seven females: 



Lake Drummond, Va. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Raleigh, N. C. Seven males. (Hebard Collection.) 



South Carolina. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Thomasville, Ga. Six males. (A. N. S. P. and Hebard Collection.) 



East Florida. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Fernandina, Fla. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Lake Harney, Fla. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Jacksonville, Fla. Six males, two females. (Bruner Collection.) 



St. Augustine, Fla. Two females. (A. N. S. P. and Morse Col- 

 lection.) 



Ormond,*Fla. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 



Eustis, Fla. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Warrington, Fla, One female. (Morse Collection.) 



Crawford County, Ind. One male. (Blatchley Collection.) 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



Dallas, Tex. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Shovel Mountain, Tex. Two males. (A. N. S. P.) 



Round Mountain, Tex. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Brownsville, Tex. One male, one female. (U. 8. N. M. and Brook- 

 lyn Inst. Arts and Sci.) 



Texas. Four males. (A. N. S. P. and U. 8. N. M.) 



Huachuca Mountains, Ariz. One male. (Brooklvn Inst. Arts and 

 Sci.) 

 Santa Rita Mountains, Ariz. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Galiuro Range, Ariz. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Patagonia Mountains, Ariz. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Ischnoptera notha n. sp. 



1893. Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure and Zehntner (not of Saussure, 1S62), 



Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I. p. 36, pi. Ill, figs. 21 and 22. (9 ) (Part.) 



[Georgia; Texas; New Mexico. 28 ] 

 1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana Caudell (not of Saussure, 1862), Proc. Ent. 



Soc. Wash., A", p. 165. [Madera Canyon, Ariz.] 

 1905. Ischnoptera uhleriana Caudell (not of Saussure, 1862), Proe. U. S. 



Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 462. (Part.) [Patagonia Mountains, Santa Rita 



Mountains, and Huaeliuea Mountains, Ariz.] 

 1907. Ischnoptera uhleriana Rehn (not of Saussure, 1862), Proc. Acad. 



Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1907, p. 25. [Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Ariz.] 



Type: c?; Huachuca Mountains, Arh.. August 22, 1903. (Oslar) 

 [U. S. N. M.]. $; Palmerlee, Huachuca Mountains, Ariz. (Schaeffer.) 

 [Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sciences.] 



Characters. — d\ Size rather small; form lanceolate, moderately 

 depresssd; surface glabrous. Head almost entirely hidden beneath 

 pronotum; interspace between eyes considerably narrower than that 

 between antennal bases; antenna? considerably exceeding apex of 

 abdomen. Pronotum transverse subovate, greatest width contained 

 one and one-third times in greatest length, cephalic and lateral 

 margins arcuate, subtruncate dorsad of head, caudal margin slightly 

 arcuate, lateral angles caudad of middle and very broadly rounded; 

 disk in transverse section subarcuate deplanate, rather narrowly 

 declivent laterad, oblique sulci distinct, connected caudad by a short 

 less distinct arcuate impression. Tegmina elongate, narrow, sub- 

 equal in greater portion of length, four times length of pronotum, 

 greatest width contained three and one-half times in length of tegmen; 

 costal margin hardly arcuate except proximad and toward apex, 

 latter narrowly rounded; anal sulcus joining sutural margin two-fifths 

 length of same from base. Wings with four complete and three incom- 



28 Without the examination of the original material it is impossible to say 

 which of the localities cited refer to this species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4^3 



plete ulnar rami. Supra-anal plate transverse, median portion pro- 

 duced into a broad, deflected lobe which is separated from body of 

 plate by a decided transverse fold, projection with margin subarcuate; 

 cerci elongate, depressed, terete. 



General color very dull buff, approaching ochraceous; lateral 

 portions of pronotum and costal field of tegmina translucent; eyes 

 blackish. 



9. Size rather small; form elliptical, subdepressed ; surface 

 glabrous. Head not extending cephalad of pronotum; interspace 

 between eyes distinctly wider than that between antennal bases; 

 antennas moderate in length. Pronotum semi-ovate, greatest length 

 contained about one and one-half times in greatest width; lat- 

 eral and cephalic margins regularly and strongly arcuate, caudal 

 margin slightly arcuate, lateral angles well rounded; disk in trans- 

 verse section slightly arcuate; slightly declivent laterad, oblique 

 sulci hardly indicated. Tegmina lanceolate-elliptical, twice length of 

 pronotum, greatest width contained about two 

 and one-quarter times in length, covering all ^tlT n£^ 

 but supra-anal plate, ultimate and penultimate y[„ s 2 i an d 22 Isch- 



abdominal segments; costal margin regularlv noptera notha n. sp. 

 , i • ,• , ,, • ', Supra -anal plate of 



arcuate, sutural margin very slightly so, apical c?(x5)and? (X3) 



rather narrowly oblique subtruncate, apex Male; Huachuea 



, , • ... , , , 1 , , Mountains, Arizona 



costal in position, rotundato-rectangulate; anal (type): female- Pal- 



sulcus meeting sutural margin slightly distad merlee, Arizona 

 of middle of latter. Wings as long as tegmina. llpe 



Supra-anal plate trigonal, angle pbtuse and apex hardly rounded, 

 indication of transverse ridge similar to that of male present, slight 

 medio-longitudinal carina indicated; cerci unknown (broken); sub- 

 genital plate with margin arcuate. 



General color tawny, tegmina ferruginous with costal field tawny, 

 pronotum, head, venter and limbs buffy, abdomen tawny ventrad; 

 eyes black. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 12.5-16* 29 mm. ; length of 

 pronotum 3.2-3.8*; greatest width of pronotum 4.2-4.8*; length of 

 tegmen 13-16.5*; greatest width of tegmen 4.2-4.5*; 



9. Length of body 13.5*mm. ; length of pronotum 4.5*; greatest 

 width of pronotum 6*; length of tegmen 9.5*; greatest width of 

 tegmen 4.2.* 



Distribution. — The material in hand- shows the range of this species 



29 Asterisks indicate type measurements. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



to extend from the Huachuca Mountains, south-eastern Arizona to 

 the central San Joaquin Valley of California (Riverdale, Raymond 

 and Fresno). It is very probable that Saussure and Zehntner's New 

 Mexican record belongs to this species, in which case its range is carried 

 eastward some distance. The only dates on material are in July and 

 August. 



Remarks. — This is one of the most interesting species of the genus 

 seen by us, its supra-anal characters in the male being quite peculiar. 

 The real relationship of the female has, as witnessed by the references 

 to Saussure and Zehntner and the present author, been entirely 

 misunderstood, and the examination of the male enables us to assign 

 it to a position apart from the interrelated uhleriana group. Saussure 

 and Zehntner's Ischnoptera uhleriana (vide supra) was a composite, 

 not including the true uhleriana. and it is impossible to assign the 

 localities to the respective components. 



Specimens examined. — Six; four males, one female, one immature 

 individual : 



Huachuca Mountains, Ariz. One male (type). (U. S. N. M.) 



Palmerlee, Ariz. One female (type), one immature specimen. 

 (Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci.) 



Fresno, Cal. One male. (U. S. X. M.) 



Riverdale, Cal. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Raymond, Cal. One male. (Morse Collection.) 



Ischnoptera borealis Brunner. 



1865. I[xchno ptera] borealis Brunner, Xouv. Syst, Blatt., p. 133. [North 

 America.] 



1892. Ischnoptera borealis Osborn, Proc. Iowa Acad. Sci., I, pt. 2, p. 117. 

 [Central Iowa.] 



1893. Ischnoptera boreal is Brunner, Publ. Nebr. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 21. [East- 

 ern Nebraska.] 



1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana Blatchley (not of Saussure, 1S62), Orth. of 

 Ind., p. 184. (Part.) [Crawford, Vigo, Putnam, Marion, Kosciusko 

 and Lake Counties, Indiana.] 



1905. Ischnoptera borealis Rehn, Trans. Kansas Acad. Sci., XIX, p. 221. 

 [Clark County, Kansas.] 



Description. — cT. Size small; form elongate-ovate; surface glabrous. 



Head hardly projecting cephalad of pronotum, interspace between 



eyes narrower than that between antennae; antennae reaching slightly 



beyond apex of tegmina. Pronotum transverse ovate, greatest 



length contained one and one-third to one and one-half times in 



greatest width, which latteris slightly caudadof middle, margin cephalad 



of same regularly arcuate, slightly subtruncate dorsad of head, lateral 



angles very broadly rounded, caudal margin very slightly arcuate; 



disk deplanate with distinctly declivent, lateral portions, oblique 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



sulci decided. Tegmina elongate-lanceolate, greatest width at about 

 third of length from apex, length four to four and one-half times that 

 of pronotum, greatest width contained two and two-thirds to three 

 times in length; costal margin arcuate proximad and distad, apex 

 rounded; anal sulcus reaching sutural margin slightly distad of one- 

 third length of same. Wings with two to five complete and two to 

 four incomplete ulnar rami. Supra-anal plate decidedly transverse, 

 margin hardly produced, arcuate; cerci terete. 



General color pale ochraceous, pronotum and costal field of teg- 

 mina translucent, disk of former rarely clouded with splotches of 

 brownish; eyes hair brown; abdomen washed distad with dilute 

 prout's brown. 



9. Size small; form elliptical, depressed; surface glabrous. Head 



hardly visible cephalad of pronotum; interspace between eyes slightly 



greater than that between antennal bases; antennae about equal to 



body in length. Pronotum semi-ovate, greatest length contained 



about one and one-half times in greatest width, lateral and cephalic 



margins strongly arcuate, slightly subtruncate dorsad of head, caudal 



margin arcuato-truncate, lateral angles caudad of middle and narrowly 



rounded obtuse-angulate ; disk slightly arcuate in transverse section. 



distinctly declivent laterad, oblique sulci not or but slightly indicated, 



Tegmina subquadrate, hardly longer than 



pronotum, attingent but hardly overlapping; VZ^ ^"\i^ ' 



costal margin moderately arcuate, distal margin 

 ...... i i ii Figs. 2.3 and 24. — Iseh- 



obliquely sinuato-truncate, apex costal and well noptera bore a lis 



rounded; anal sulcus reaching to disto-sutural Brunner Supra-anal 

 angle, which latter is very broadly rounded. <£(x°5). Male; Boy- 

 Wings minute. Supra-anal plate sub-trigonal, kins, Va.: female; 

 angle obtuse, lateral margins slightly concavo- 



emarginate, immediate apex narrowly rounded; cerci depressed, 

 rather broad mesad, subfusiform. 



General color tawny becoming seal brown caudad, latter color cover- 

 ing dorsum and frequently venter of abdomen, rarely seal brown 

 is uniform color of dorsum. Head often with face seal brown, more 

 rarely tawny. Pronotum occasionally with disk darker than general 

 color, thus forming a broad lateral pale margin on pronotum and 

 sometimes on costal field of tegmina. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 13-14 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum 3-3.5; greatest width of pronotum 3.8-4.5; length of tegmen 

 12-18; greatest width of tegmen 3.8-5.8: 



9. Length of body 10.5-11.5 mm.; length of pronotum 3.2-3.5; 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



.greatest width of pronotum 4.2-5; length of tegmen 3.5; greatest 

 width of tegmen 2.5-3.2. 



Distribution. — The material before us proves that this species 

 has the most extensive range of any form of the genus found in North 

 America. The localities represented extend from Massachusetts 

 (Wellesley), northern Indiana (Lake and Kosciusko Counties), northern 

 Illinois, Iowa and eastern Colorado, south to northern Florida (Fernan- 

 dina), Alabama (Auburn), and western Arkansas (Men a). Its vertical 

 range extends from sea-level to twenty-five hundred feet elevation 

 (Sulphur Springs). The zonal distribution of the species appears to be 

 Upper and Lower Austral, slightly, and probably more extensively, 

 encroaching on the Transition region. The dates represented are all 

 in the months of May, June and July. 



Remarks. — It is most remarkable that this species should have been 

 sso generally overlooked, but few authors having reported it when it 

 is the most generally distributed of any single form of the genus in 

 our region. Its great superficial resemblance to /. uhleriana has no 

 doubt caused, its confusion with that species, but the shape of the 

 .supra-anal plate will readily distinguish the males of the two. The 

 female is distinctly smaller and with usually more rounded tegmina 

 than the same sex of uhleriana, but otherwise is much the same. 



There is considerable individual variation in size in the male sex 

 rand probably equally as much in the female, but the size of the series 

 of the latter sex is not sufficient to determine this. 



Specimens examined. — Eighty-seven; seventy-seven males, ten 

 females : 



Wellesley, Mass. One female. (Morse Collection.) 

 Waterbury, Conn. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 

 Peermont, N. J. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 

 New Jersey. One male, one female. (Brunei- Collection.) 

 Harrisburg, Pa. One male. (Penna. State Div. of Zool.) 

 McConnellsburg, Pa. One female. (A. N. S. P.) 

 Ashebourne, Pa. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 

 Mt. Any, Pa. One male. (Hebard Collection.) 

 District of Columbia. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Boykins, Va. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 

 Virginia. One male, two females. (Bruner Collection.) 

 Sulphur Springs, N. C. Forty-one males. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Tryon, N. C. Six males. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Lillington, N. C. One female. (Hebard Collection.) 

 Femandina, Fla. Two males. (A. N. S. P. and Georgia State 

 Entom. Coll.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



Auburn, Ala. One male. (Morse Collection.) 



Terre Haute, Ind. One male. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Lake County. Ind. One male. (Blatchley Collection.) 



Turkey Lake, Kosciusko County, Ind. One male. (Blatchley 

 Collection.) 



Marion County, Ind. Two males. (Blatchley and Hebard Col- 

 lection.) 



Crawford County, Ind. One male, one female. (Hebard Collection.) 



Northern Illinois. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Ashland, Neb. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Lincoln, Neb. Two males. (Bruner Collection.) 



Nebraska City, Neb. Seven males, one female. (A. N. S. P. and 

 Bruner Collection.) 



Fort Lupton, Col. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Kansas. One male. (U. S. N. M ) 



Mena, Ark. One female. (Morse Collection.) 



Ischnoptera bolliana Saussure and Zehntner. 



1S93. Ischnoptera bolliana Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 

 I, p. 40. [New Mexico; Tex.] 



1902. Ischnoptera bolliana Blatchley, A Nature Wooing, p. 217. [Ormond, 

 Fla.] 



1903. Ischnoptera bolliana Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, pp. 325 and 330. [Round 

 Mountain, Blanco County, Texas.] (Part.) 



1904. Kakerlac schaefferi Rehn, Psvche, p. 72. [Esperanza Ranch, Browns- 

 ville, Tex.] 



1907. Ischnoptera bolliana Tucker, Sci. Bull. Univ. Kansas, IV, No. 2, 

 p. 71. [Douglas County, Kansas.] 



1908. Kakerlac schaefferi Brimlev, Ent. News, XIX, p. 16. TRaleigh, 

 N.C.] * L 



Characters. — d\ Size small; form elongate-lanceolate, very mod- 

 erately depressed; surface glabrous. Head but slightly projecting 

 cephalad of cephalic margin of pronotum; interspace between eyes 

 considerably less than that between antennal bases; antennae slightly 

 exceeding tips of tegmina. Pronotum transverse trigonal-ovate, 

 greatest length contained about one and one-half times in greatest 

 width ; narrow supra-occipital margin arcuato-truncate, lateral mar- 

 gins oblique arcuato-truncate, caudal margin moderately arcuate, 

 lateral angles subobtuse; disk deplanate, considerably deflected 

 laterad, oblique sulci very decided and connected caudad by a short 

 transverse arcuate impression. Tegmina elongate-lanceolate, four and 

 one-quarter to four and one-half times pronotal length, greatest w r idth 

 -situated at third of length from apex and contained two and two- 

 thirds to three times in length of same; costal margin moderately 

 arcuate proximad and distad apex well rounded; anal sulcus reaching 

 29 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



sutural margin slightly distad of one-third of entire length from base. 

 Wings with two to four complete and two to five incomplete ulnar 

 rami. Supra-anal plate with distal margin considerably and broadly 

 arcuate; cerci terete. 



General color dull raw sienna or very rarely pale ochraceous, venter 



of abdomen becoming seal brown distad, limbs 

 k^p>/ n-^-—-^ an( j more or i ess f basal portion of abdomen 



clay color. Head seal brown, eyes varying 



Fi foptlT\l 6 ma SC na from black to hair brown; antenna, very dark. 



Saussure and Zehnt- Pronotum with disk more or less seal brown , 



^ er ^ u ( p x a 8) n and a $ sometimes developed as a pair of very broad 



(X 5). Raleigh, subparallel bars, again suffusing the whole 



" ' ' dorsum except a pale median area, or present 



as a pair of trigonal blotches on caudal portion, and very rarely (in 



pale ochraceous individuals) almost unsuffused; lateral portions 



never suffused. 



9 . Size small ; form elliptical, slightly broader caudad than cephalad ; 

 surface glabrous. Head projecting very slightly cephalad of cephalic 

 margin of pronotum; interspace between eyes distinctly broader than 

 that between antennal bases; antennse shorter than body. Pronotum 

 semi-ovate, greatest length contained one and one-half times in 

 greatest width; cephalic margin subtruncate, lateral margin oblique 

 truncato-arcuate, caudal margin subtruncate, lateral angles rotundato- 

 rectangulate ; disk in transverse section arcuate, oblique sulci absent. 

 Tegmina lobiform, lateral, at base separated by interspace equal to 

 one and one-half times their width, very slightly longer than half of 

 pronotal length, very slightly surpassing caudal margin of mesonotum, 

 apex well rounded. Wings absent. Supra-anal plate very broadly 

 obtuse- angulate, apex rounded, with blunt medio-longitudinal carina; 

 eerci depressed, rather broad proximad, terete. 



General color pitch-black, pronotum, mesonotum, metanotum and 

 tegmina margined with ferruginous, pronotum very narrowly so. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 8.5-12 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum 2-3; greatest width of pronotum 2.8-4.1; length of tegmen 

 10-13.5; greatest width of tegmen 3.5-4.5: 



9. Length of body 9-9.5 mm. ; length of pronotum 2.8-3; greatest 

 width of pronotum 4.3-4.6; length of tegmen 1.5-1.7; greatest width 

 of tegmen 1.5. 



Distribution. — The published records and available material show 

 that the present species ranges from eastern central (Raleigh) and 

 western (Sulphur Springs and Tryon) North Carolina and eastern Kan- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



sas (Douglas County), south to at least north-central Florida (Ormond) 

 and extreme southern Texas (Brownsville), westward to New Mexico. 

 Its known vertical range is thus seen to be from sea-level to at least 

 two thousand and five hundred feet (Sulphur Springs), and probably 

 considerably higher on the strength of the New Mexican record, but lack 

 of exact locality in the latter case deprives it of much of its impor- 

 tance. The specimens were all taken in the months of May and June. 



Remarks. — There seems to be little doubt in our minds as to the 

 propriety of synonymizing Kakerlac schaefferi with this species, as 

 while no breeding experiments have been made to verify the opinion, 

 schaefferi possesses the characters and coloration one would expect 

 in the female of bolliana after having studied the sexes of forms like 

 johnsoni, deropeltiformis and americana, the latter being an absolute 

 parallel in the degree of differentiation of the sexes. 



The pale form seems to be most prevalent in material from north- 

 eastern Texas, the only specimens seen by us in this phase being from 

 Paris, Texas, and one from Texas (Belfrage) without further data. 



Specimens examined. — Thirty-eight; thirty-three males, five 

 females : 



Sulphur Springs, N. C. Five males. (Hebard Collection.) 



Tryon, N. C. Eight males. (U. S. N. M.) 



Raleigh, N. C. Five males, two females. (A. N. S. P., Hebard 

 Collection and U. S. N. M.) 



North Carolina. Two males. (U. S. N. M.) 



Swansea, S. C. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Atlanta, Ga. One female. (A. N. S. P.) 



Brunswick, Ga. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Paris, Tex. Five males. (U. S. N. M.) 



Round Mountain, Tex. Two males. (A. N. S. P.) 



Hockley, Tex. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, Tex. Two males, one female. 

 (U. S. N. M. and Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci.) 



Port Isabel, Tex. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Texas. One male. (U. S. N. M.) 



Ischnoptera desertse (Rehn and Hebard). 



1909. Temnopteryx dcsertce Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1909, p. 116, fig. 1. [Johnstone, Valverde County, Texas.] 



As this species has recently been well described and figured it seems 

 unnecessary to redescribe it in this paper. The type is still unique, 

 and the probability of its being the female of a species of Ischnoptera 

 is so great that we have placed it, tentatively at least, as a valid species 

 of the genus under consideration. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Ischnoptera insolita n. sp. 



1903. Ischnoptera bolliana Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, pp. 325 and 330. [Shovel 



Mountain, Burnet County, Texas.] (Part.) 

 1903. Ischnoptera uhleriana Blatehley, Orthopt. of Ind., p. 185. [Crawford 



County, Indiana. 30 ] (Part.) 



Types: d\ Shovel Mountain, Burnet County, Tex., June 21, 1901. 

 (F. G. Schaupp.) [A. N. S. P.] 9. Crawford County, Ind., June 

 30, 1902. (W. S. Blatehley.) {Blatehley Coll.] 



d\ Size small; form sub-lanceolate; surface moderately polished. 

 Head with very small portion of occiput visible cephalad of pronotum ; 

 interspace between eyes subequal to that between antennae. Pro- 

 notum less transverse than usual in genus; caudal margin moderately 

 arcuate, cephalic margin much shorter, arcuato-truncate, lateral 

 margins oblique rotundato-truncate, greatest width distinctly caudad 

 of middle, angles rotundato-rectangulate; disk subdeplanate, lateral 

 portions declivent, oblique sulci distinct. Tegmina elongate sub- 

 lanceolate, subequal in greater portion of length, pronotal length 

 contained about three and one-half times in tegminal length, greatest 

 width contained slightly less than three times in length, apex broadly 

 rounded and extending caudad of apex of abdomen by nearly length 

 of pronotum. Wings with four complete and two incomplete rami 

 to ulnar vein. Supra-anal plate decidedly transverse, margin con- 

 siderably arcuate; cerci short, terete. 



General color buff, lateral portions of pronotum and costal section 

 of tegmina whitish subhyaline ; eyes clove brown ; abdomen becoming 

 russet disto-mesad. 



9 , Size, form and surface as in male. Head 



^\_^ \ 7 1 and pronotum as in male, but latter propor- 

 tionately larger and with extremely slight 



m ^pLTL^tt oblk i ue sulci - Te s mina sli s ht1 ^ more than 



Supra-anal plate of three times length of pronotum, greatest length 



fhotei lioiiS: sli s htl y less than three times s reatest width > 



Texas (type) : female : apices extending caudad of apex of abdomen a 

 Indh!nl d (type) n * Y ' distance equal to two-thirds length of pronotum. 



Wings with three to four complete and two 

 incomplete ulnar rami; median vein decidedly sinuate two-fifths of 

 length from base of wing. Supra-anal plate produced trigonal, apex 

 very narrowly rounded, slightly arcuato-emarginate laterad; cerci 

 terete. 



30 This is the only locality of the number cited for uhleriana from which this 

 species has been examined. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



General coloration as in male, but more ochraceous. 



Measurements. 31 — 6\ Length of body (12)-12.2 mm.; length of 

 pronotum (2.8); greatest width of pronotum (3.8); length of tegmen 

 ll-(ll.S); greatest width of tegmen (3.5)-3.8: 



9. Length of body 10-(12); length ofpronotum 3-(3.2); greatest 

 width of pronotum 3.5-(4); length of tegmen (11.5); greatest width 

 of tegmen (3.8). 



Distribution. — This species is known from but three localities, viz., 

 Tryon, N. C, Crawford County, Ind., and Shovel Mountain, Tex. 



Remarks. — The opportunity to examine the female type of this 

 species enabled us to clear up the perplexing problem raised earlier 

 in the work by the other specimens. The male is not widely different 

 from that of bolliaiui and the Tryon female was badly damaged, minus 

 tegmina and repaired, so that one hesitated to found any conclusions 

 upon it. The Crawford County female, however, removed this 

 uncertainty and enabled us to properly place the material. This 

 species is related to /. occidentalism the only other North American 

 species with long wings in the female sex, from which, however, 

 it can be readily separated by the much smaller size and paler colora- 

 tion. 



Specimens examined. — Four; two males, two females: 



Tryon, N. C. One female. (U. S. N. M.) 



Crawford County, Ind. One female (type). (Blatchley Collection.) 



Shovel Mountain, Tex. Two males (one type). (A. N. S. P.) 



Isohnoptera occidentalis Saussure. 



1862. I[schnoptera] occidentalis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 



2e ser., XIV, p. 170. [Nova.] 

 1862. I[sclinoptera) consobrina Saussure, ibid., XIV, p. 170. [No loc. 



given.] 

 1864. Ischnoptera occidentalis Saussure, Mem. l'Hist. Nat. Mex., Ill, p. 87. 



[New Orleans.] 

 186-4. Ischnoptera consobrina Saussure, ibid., p. 88. [Warm regions of 



Mexico; Cordova, Mexico.] 

 1870. Ischnoptera consobrina Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Recherch. Zool., 



VI, p. 59. [Mexico and the southern United States.] 

 1893. Ischnoptera consobrina Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., 



Orth., I, p. 37, pi. 3, fig. 24. [Texas ; Guerrero, Jalisco, Vera Cruz, Orizaba 



and Cordova, Mexico; Guatemala; Chontales, Nicaragua.] 



Characters. — d\ Size medium; form elongate lanceolate, con- 

 siderably depressed; surface glabrous. Head narrowly visible 

 cephalad of pronotum; interspace between eyes but little more than 

 half that between antennal bases; antennse reaching about to end of 

 tegmina. Pronotum subtrigonal, greatest length contained about 



11 The measurements enclosed in parentheses are those of the types. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



one~and one-third times in greatest width; cephalic margin narrowly 

 subtruncate, lateral margins oblique sub-arcuate ; caudal margins 

 slightly arcuate, caudo-lateral angles well rounded, placed distinctly 

 caudad of the middle; disk of pronotum deplanate dorsad, narrowly 

 yet considerably declivent laterad, oblique sulci decided. Tegmina 

 about four and one-third times length of pronotum and slightly more 

 than three times as long as greatest tegmina! width, subequal in width : 

 costal margin straight except briefly proximad and distad where it is 

 arcuate, apex rounded, costal field rather narrow, anal sulcus joining 

 sutural margin about two-fifths length of same from base. Wings 

 with four to five complete and six incomplete ulnar rami. Supra-anal 

 plate large, produced, narrowing, apical margin shallowly obtuse- 

 angulate emarginate, lateral angles rectangulate; cerci elongate, 

 subdepressed, terete. 



9. Size medium to rather large; form elongate elliptical, mod^ 

 erately depressed; surface glabrous. Head with only portion of 

 occiput visible from dorsum; interspace between eyes narrower than, 

 or subequal to, interspace between antennal bases; antennae not 

 reaching to tips of tegmina. Pronotum as in male. Tegmina 



exceeding apex of abdomen, about three and 



\~ /* N< \|/ > ' one-third to three and one-half times length of 

 *■— -/ pronotum or greatest tegminal width, form as 



Fl ?op 2 ^r d o? c °^5t in male but less elongate. Wings with three 

 Saussure. Supra- to five complete and five to six incomplete 

 and ^(2)° Male- umar rami. Supra-anal plate sub-trigonal, 

 For tin, Mex.: fe- produced mesad, produced portion broadly 



rounded and margin arcuato-emarginateJaterad, 

 distinct medio-longitudinal carina present; cerci as in male. 



General color varying from tawny ochraceous (cJ 1 ) to dull ferru- 

 ginous ( ? ), pronotum of female more or less marmorate with chestnut 

 and costal portion of both sexes paler than general color. Limbs, 

 ocelli and mouth parts ochraceous. Abdomen becoming more or less 

 blackish distad. 



Measurements. — d\ Length of body 14.5-16 mm.; length of 

 pronotum 3.8-4; greatest width of pronotum 4.8; length of tegmen 

 17; greatest width of tegmen 5.2: 



9. Length of body 14.8-21. 5 32 mm. ; length of pronotum 4.2-5; 

 greatest width of pronotum 5.2-6 ; length of tegmen 16.2-17.8; great- 

 est width of tegmen 4.6-5.8. 



32 This specimen has the abdomen abnormally distended. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Distribution. — The only records of this species from the United 

 States are from New Orleans and Texas, south of which it ranges 

 through Mexico to at least Guatemala and Nicaragua. 



Remarks. — As we have seen no material from the United States, 

 it is not possible to comment on the variability of the species as found 

 within our limits. 



Specimens examined. — Five; two males, three females: 



Fortin, Mex. One male. (Bruner Collection.) 



Orizaba, Mex. One female. (Bruner Collection.) 



Atoyac, Mex. One male, two females. (Bruner Collection.) 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May , 



May 3. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



The death of Lancaster Thomas, a member, April 2, 1910, was 

 announced. 



Henry Skinner, M.D., made a communication on insects injurious 

 to shade and fruit trees. (No abstract.) 



May 17. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Forty-three persons present. 



The death of Edward Van Beneden, a correspondent, April 28, 1910, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under 

 the following titles: 



" Notes on Batoid Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler (May 5, 1910). 



" Descriptions of four New Cyprinoids (Rhodeinae)," by Henry W. 

 Fowler (May 5, 1910). 



" A Note regarding the Chinese Alligator," by Thomas Barbour 

 (May 17, 1910). 



The following communications were made under the auspices of 

 the Mineralogical and Geological Section: 



Chester A. Reed, on some geological features of the Arbuckle 

 Mountains of Oklahoma. (No abstract.) 



The Copper Deposits of Franklin and Adams Counties, Pennsylvania. 

 — Edgar T. Wherry, Ph.D., remarked that the region is occupied 

 by two Pre-Cambrian effusive igneous rocks, a rhyolite and a basalt, 

 both considerably altered. The latter was probably the first to form, 

 the acid rock being in part in dikes cutting through it, and a contact 

 exposed during recent mining operations showing a rhyolite lava 

 overlying basalt. The deposits consist chiefly of native copper, in 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



quartz veins in epidotized layers in the basalt lava. It is believed that 

 the metal was originally distributed throughout this rock and has 

 been concentrated, like the associated quartz, in obedience to the 

 principle that large crystals grow at the expense of small ones, that 

 the reduction to metallic copper was brought about by the ferrous iron 

 of the rock constituents, that the copper was transported as a dilute 

 solution of free metal by the circulating waters, and that the associa- 

 tion with epidote is of physical rather than of chemical significance, in 

 that the epidotized layers were the only ones of sufficiently resistant 

 character to permit of the development of open cracks during the 

 regional metamorphism. The workableness of the deposits depends 

 upon the continuity of these epidote-bearing layers and their included 

 quartz veins in depth, but since no explanation can be given for the 

 epidotization of certain layers of the rock it seems impossible to predict 

 this from present indications, and extended drilling is thought to be 

 the only way to settle the question as to the future of the district. 



Silas L. Schumo, on the pot holes of the Falls of Schuylkill, illus- 

 trated by photographs. (No abstract.) 



F. Lynwood Garrison, on the copper deposit and mining operation 

 near Bound Brook, N. J. (No abstract.) 



Henry Leffman, M.D., exhibited the effect of polarized light on 

 preparations of rock-sections by the Lumiere color-process. 



Edgar Madison Ledyard was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



STAURONEIS TERRYI D. B. Ward. 

 BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER. 



The anomalous diatom here to be dealt with was first made known 

 by Mr. William A. Terry, of Bristol, Conn., the veteran collector and 

 student of the Diatomacese whose enterprise has brought to light so 

 many new forms. He collected it on Fall Mountain, Conn., in 1890, 

 and during the same year Dr. D. B. Ward made a number of arranged 

 mounts of the valves. These were distributed, together with photo- 

 graphs showing two of the curious upper valves side by side, under the 

 name Stauroneis terryana Ward. This name was almost immediately 

 and very properly amended by Dr. Ward, at the suggestion of Prof. 

 Hamilton L. Smith, to Stauroneis terryi. One of Dr. Ward's slides, 

 and a vial of the Fall Mountain material containing the diatom, were 

 sent by Mr. Terry, in 1892, to J. A. Tempere, who in turn forwarded a 

 specimen to Prof. P. T. Cleve. The first literary result was the noting 

 of a new variety in Cleve's monograph. 1 



Stauroneis acuta W. Smith. Var. tsrryana, Tempore. 



The description is exceedingly short, being confined to a measure- 

 ment of the length and breadth, and a counting of the stria?, the 

 statement ending, curiously enough, "Brackish water: Connecticut!" 



The second result was a figure in Schmidt's Atlas 2 with the legend 

 " 1. Connecticut? (Original expl. Tempere), Stauroneis acuta W. Smith, 

 var. Terryana, Tempere." 



Now the sparse characterization in Cleve's monograph would seem 

 to point anywhere except toward a recognition of the essential char- 

 acters of Mr. Terry's diatom, and the impression of an existing miscon- 

 ception is amply confirmed by the figure in Schmidt's Atlas. Whatever 

 may finally be determined concerning the relationship between this 

 diatom and Stauroneis acuta, a reduction to varietal rank must base 

 itself on something more to the purpose than a one-line description 

 and a single figure of some form other than that which was named 

 Stauroneis terryi by Dr. Ward. 



The only other publication relating to this diatom which is known 



1 Synopsis of the Naviculoid Diatoms, P. T. Cleve, 1894. 



3 A. Schmidt, Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde , Tafel 242, fig. 1, September, 19Q3. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



to me is Mr. Terry's own account 3 of its discovery on Fall Mountain 

 with some reference to the very odd features of the upper valve. 



During July of 1909 I received from Mr. Terry sundry vials of 

 diatoms collected on Fall Mountain in 1891, with a request for the 

 preparation of a number of arranged mounts, each of which was to 

 show the upper valve, the lower valve and the complete frustule of 

 Stauroneis terryi. Some of this material was labelled "fossil" and 

 some " recent." It consisted very largely of Stauroneis acuta, together 

 with its varieties, among which one might easily imagine " var. terryana, 

 Tempere." But the diatom so tardy in the matter of obtaining 

 recognition, though present merely in traces, was in such marked 

 contrast with all these that no special difficulty was experienced in 

 culling it from its multitudinous associates. During the preparation 

 of the slides a certain curious or even unprecedented feature was 

 noticed in many of the intact frustules — a feature neither shown by 

 Dr. Ward's preparations and photographs, nor mentioned in any 

 previous reference to this diatom. This was brought to Mr. Terry's 

 attention, and at his request I have had proper illustrations made of 

 the whole form, and present the following description of the diatom. 



Stauroneis terryi D. B. Ward (ined.)- 



Frustule fusiform, slightly arcuate in girdle view, the upper valve 

 more convex than the lower. Valves dissimilar, the upper partly 

 enclosing the lower. No girdle bands, the valves held in place by a 

 broad external silicious ring at the middle part. Ring slightly 

 cemented to the valves, easily detached, about one-eighth the length 

 of the frustule, very thin, surface obscurely punctate. Upper valve 

 370-400 u long, 55-60 a broad. Strongly convex transversely, swollen 

 at the middle, diminishing with concave outlines to long, bluntly 

 rounded apices, and bearing a large oval depression toward each end 

 wherein the raphe terminates in a fine waved line; axial hyaline area 

 rectilinear, expanding spatulately around subterminal depressions. 

 Lower valve slightly smaller in all dimensions, without subterminal 

 depressions, apices more slender, with lumen formed by a conspicuous 

 thickening of the inner terminal margin; raphe continued approxi- 

 mately to end of valve; hyaline area rectilinear to the lumen, then nar- 

 rowing almost to a point. Stauros on both valves widening outward. 

 Striae 12 in 10 //, nearly normal to periphery throughout, punctse 

 becoming coarser and striae more sparse around ends of upper valve. 



3 W. A. Terrv, -4 Partial List of Connecticut Diatoms, Rhodora, August, 1907, 

 p. 126. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fresh water. Fossil and recent. 



Fall Mountain, Conn. W. A. Terry, 1890. 



This diatom presents several curious features. It is the largest by 

 far of the genus Stauroneis. It is the only one of the genus to show 

 subterminal depressions on the valves. It is the only naviculoid 

 diatom known to me that has a silicious belt about its middle part. 

 For these and other reasons, it is of the greatest interest. The anom- 

 alous features specified might easily lead to the suspicion that we 

 have here a monstrous form, a "sport," an abnormal condition of the 

 species with which it is associated, Stauroneis acuta W. Smith. This 

 idea might seem to find some confirmation in the fact that the striation 

 and punctation, and the shape of the lower valve are approximately 

 those of that species. 



But monstrous forms do not, usually if ever, continue to produce 

 themselves indefinitely, so that one shall find them in both the mud 

 beneath and the water above. Monstrosities do not, like this form, 

 recur not only for years and years in one place, but also in other 

 ponds and streams of the same region. 4 Monstrosities are not, like 

 this diatom, fairly uniform in characters, so that one picks out hundreds 

 of quite similar specimens from the material. Whatever may be the 

 relationship. Mr. Terry's diatom is something more than a teratological 

 condition of St. acuta. 



Some possibilities suggest themselves. Unquestionably the rela- 

 tionship is close. The peculiar silicious thickening at the ends of the 

 lower valve is precisely alike in both, and this is a very significant fact. 

 The striation and the beading are essentially similar. The lower 

 valve, apart from its size, might upon superficial study be thought 

 identical with the valves of St. acuta. The outline of this diatom, 

 however, is different, even in the lower valve. Also, the walls of both 

 valves are thinner, and the whole frustule is more nearly circular 

 in cross-section. The size is relatively colossal, being more than 

 twice as long as the ordinary St. acuta. There are no girdle-bands in 

 any of the hundreds of frustules examined or mounted, nor were 

 any bands found in the accompanying material that could possibly 

 belong to this form. No instance of reduplication has been observed, 

 and as a consequence, the ultimate fate of the unique silicious ring or 

 belt is not known, though one must think its rupture a condition 

 precedent to this process. 



Some of these features might seem to point toward the conclusion 



* Mr. Terry finds it in "three widely separated ponds in Bristol." Rhodora, 

 August, 1907. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



that we have here a sporangia! condition. This view would carry 

 with it an explanation of the comparative rarity of the diatom in the 

 gatherings of Mr. Terry. But on such an hypothesis, one would 

 expect to find, in this rich material, some indication of the process of 

 return to normal form. Nothing of this sort has yet been seen. 

 However, negative evidence answers no questions. Plainly enough, 

 a study of the life-cycle of this diatom is a desideratum. Not only 

 might such a study clear up the question of relationships within the 

 genus, — in Mr. Terry's form we have extra-generic characters, and 

 they may easily prove to be of great significance in solving the problem 

 of the genetic connections of Stauroneis, — but such a study will 

 necessarily be carried on with living material. 



Explanation of Plate XXXIV. 



Stauroneis Terryi, D. B. Ward. 



Fig. 1 — Complete frustule, girdle view, showing external ring. 

 Fig. 2 — Upper valve with subterminal depressions. 

 Fig. 3 — Lower valve. 



Amplification, 500 diameters. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A NEW DIATOM. 

 BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER. 



Iii April and May of 1905, and at about the same season in later 

 years, gatherings from swampy pools near Media, Pa., often showed 

 little groups of freely motile naviculoid diatoms. These groups at- 

 tracted notice from the curious circumstance that they seemed always 

 composed of four individuals. Also, they were essentially unlike 

 any filamentous forms such asEunotia and Melosiru, and differ equally 

 with the short blocks of Gomphonema, Stauroneis. etc., which may 

 temporarily remain in contact after reduplication. All of these, and 

 with them the chains or bands of infinitesimal Naviculae of the group 

 Diadesmis, are alike in that the contact between adjacent frustules 

 is by the joining of valve to valve. But these were joined girdle to 

 girdle, so that the group as a whole moved about with four parallel 

 raphes in approximate contact with the substratum, while four other 

 parallel raphes were in evidence on the top. Staining with Bismarck 

 brown and tannin showed each group to be enclosed in a mass of 

 coleoderm. This coleoderm, of varying consistency, sometimes 

 coagulates in place under the treatment, and sometimes, being more 

 fluid and expanded, collapses confusedly as a brownish cloud upon the 

 supporting slide (Plate XXXV, fig. 1). 



These groups were at first supposed to constitute merely a temporary 

 condition of some well-known species, and search was made for the 

 same diatom in the isolated state normal to the Xaviculse, especially 

 to the species of the Pinnularia 1 division of the genus, to which the form 

 obviously belongs. But the groups have continued to occur while the 

 isolated diatom has been nowhere visible. Moreover, a closer study 

 of the frustule has indicated a new and curious species. 



In May, 1909, rich gatherings were made of this diatom from swampy 

 pools near Media, several miles from the places where it had first been 

 observed in 1905. Accompanying it were a few Navicula major and 

 .V. viridis Kutz., together w T ith vast numbers of Closterium sp., long 

 strands of Hyalotheca sp. and other desmids. Preparations were made 



1 Treatment of the Navicula-Pinnularia question herein is that of H. Van 

 Heurck and most recent writers except P. T. Cleve. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



by various methods, and primarily by burning on the cover-glass and 

 mounting in Canada balsam. I owe to Mr. C. S. Boyer, who received 

 some of this material, the first intimation that these groups of four 

 frustules may come intact through a careful boiling in nitric acid and 

 bichromate, continued long enough to destroy entirely all accompany- 

 ing organic matter, and with it, of course, that belonging to the 

 diatoms themselves — a fact I have confirmed by repeated trials. Dis- 

 integration of groups takes place only on vigorous boiling and agitation. 

 This indicates the grouping to be maintained by silicious cementing 

 of the edges of the valves. The peculiar habit of growth seems per- 

 sistent, and this will appear more clearly in subsequent notes of the 

 occurrence of these groups at widely separated places. The species 

 may be described as follows: 

 Navioula socialis sp. nov. PI. XXXV, figs. 1 and 2. 



Frustules normally in motile groups of four, held with girdle-sides 

 together by a silicious cementing of adjacent valve-edges, and enclosed 

 in a common coleoderm. Valves linear-elliptic, sides slightly concave, 

 ends obtusely rounded. Transverse costae prominent, nearly parallel 

 except around terminal nodules, alike on both valves, 8 in 10 [x, wider 

 than intervening spaces, showing obscurely a longitudinal band. 

 Raphe nearly straight and simple. Longitudinal hyaline area nearly 

 one-third the width of valve, much contracted near terminal nodules, 

 slightly and unsymmetrically expanded around central n< dt le. Length 

 of valve, 60-120 //, breadth 13-27 /*. 



Fresh water: Swampy pools near Media, Pa. Type in cabinet 

 of T. C. Palmer. 



This species has a superficial resemblance to some forms of Navicula 

 viridis Kiitz. and the possibility is recognized that frustules isolated 

 from normal grouping by usual methods of preparation may have been 

 referred to that species. Certainly the list of forms grouped under 

 that name by authors is long, and perhaps loose. N. viridis, however, 

 which frequently accompanies this species in typical condition, always 

 shows in marked contrast, as regards shape of valve, less parallel 

 costae and more curved, complex raphe, as well as in the absence of 

 grouping into motile chains of four. N. viridis var. commutata Grunow 

 has dissimilar valves; or, if we shall follow Cleve 2 in his rather puzzling 

 rearrangement of this group of forms, var. commutata differs in its 

 more approximate costse (10 to 12 in 10 ;x) and their divergent tendency 

 in the middle portion. Still following Cleve, var. fallax, Cleve also 



2 P. T. Cleve, Synopsis of the Naviculoid Diatoms, II, p. 91. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



differs in the closer costse (10 to 12 in 10 jj.) and in the frequent unlike- 

 ness of the valves by the unilateral interruption of the costse on one 

 of them, though there is here some agreement in the nearly parallel 

 costse. Neither in Cleve's descriptions, nor in the figures cited by 

 him in Schmidt's Atlas 3 , does the present form find convincing presen- 

 tation. The nearest approach is in Schmidt's Atlas, pi. 42, figs. 11 and 

 12, but even in these, which are in outline an approach, there are 

 recognizable differences, beyond that very notable one, which applies 

 here as well as elsewhere — the normal grouping of the species herein 

 described into motile chains. If such grouping has been heretofore 

 observed in related species, it does not find mention in the usual 

 authoritative works, nor is a similar condition of N. viridis known to 

 me. Mounts of the diatom having been distributed to some extent, 

 it was interesting to find Mr. W. A. Terry able to send material from 

 Fall Mountain, Conn., which contained it in considerable abundance. 

 This was received in July, 1909. It showed the usual grouping, and 

 rather larger frustules than those collected by myself. Mr. F. J. Keeley, 

 who had made fine gatherings in May, at the same time and place as 

 myself, collected it also in characteristic condition during the summer 

 at Dogtown Common. Cape Ann, Mass. He also detected it in the 

 usual groups in some of his preparations of material from near Phil- 

 adelphia. Near Media it is frequent in boggy places during the 

 summer, and until the pools dry out, though seldom in much abundance. 

 It goes without saying that a history of the life-cycle of this diatom, 

 which will necessarily include an account of the formation of these 

 groups, is much to be desired. At present it is not easy even to 

 understand the process of ordinary reduplication in the case of this 

 form. If the groups do not multiply by simultaneous subdivision of 

 their constituent frustules, there would soon be irregular groupings. 

 If the subdivision is simultaneous, good gatherings should show 

 superposed groups. Neither of these conditions have been seen. 4 

 Meantime, the practical advantage of the grouping is evident enough, 

 s.:> far as concerns a motility dependent to a great degree on contact 

 of the raphe with the substratum. An isolated Navicula with con- 

 siderable breadth of valve may easily find itself disadvantageous^ 

 on its girdle, and no irregularity of the solid bottom within reach. 

 A struggle to right itself is the usual consequence of such a condition. 



3 A. Schmidt, Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. 



♦Occasional groups of two or three frustules will be seen in rich gatherings, 

 and a few containing six to eight, all in one plane, have been noted. But the 

 normal number is unquestionably four. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



But the shallow, tabular group of Navicula socialis is in very stable 

 equilibrium upon its four raphes, and it does not readily fall a victim 

 to such accidents. 



Explanation of Plate XXXV. 



Narlcula socialis sp. nov. 



Fig. 1 — A motile group stained with Bismarck brown and tannin, showing 



the coleoderm, which invisibly encloses the group hi life, collapsed upon 



the slide under treatment. 



Fig. 2 — A motile group burned upon the cover-glass to a low red heat, leaving 



only the silicious parts, and showing contact of valve-edges at six points. 



Drawings are on a scale of 1000 diameters. 



30 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A NOTE REGARDING THE CHINESE ALLIGATOR. 

 BY THOMAS BARBOUR. 



The existence of a true alligator in China is one of the most inter- 

 esting and remarkable facts which has ever been brought to the notice 

 of zoogeographers. Specimens are rare in collections, and it is probable 

 that the example which has led to this note is the first one to be re- 

 ceived by an American Museum. The Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology received a few days ago a most excellent mounted specimen, 

 with skull, of an alligator which was brought from the region near 

 the mouth of the Yangtse River by Captain Thomas Golding. and 

 given to Dr. W. T. Hornaday, who had it in his private collection for 

 seven years. Dr. Hornaday very kindly gave it to the writer, and 

 it is a great pleasure to thank him most heartily for what has proved 

 an extremely welcome addition to the reptile collection of the Museum. 



To the average American naturalist the fact that our American 

 alligator has a close congener in the Yangtse in China is unknown. 

 and for that reason I am presenting here a short history of our know- 

 ledge of this most interesting creature. 



In 1870 Mr. Swinhoe, a well-known authority on Chinese zoology, 

 wrote in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London (p. 410) 

 the following: "In February, 1869, some Chinese were exhibiting in 

 the native city of Shanghai what they called a dragon, which they 

 declared had been dug out of a hole in the province of Shense. It 

 was a young crocodile about four feet long, which they kept in tepid 

 water. They made so much money by showing it, that they refused 

 to sell it. I can not, of course, guess its species; but I nevertheless 

 think the fact worth recording, as evidence that a species of this group 

 does occur in China." 



Nine years later Mr. A. A. Fauvel, of the Imperial Chinese Maritime 

 Customs and the Honorary Curator of the Shanghai Museum, wrote 

 a long description and historical account 1 of the Yangstze alligator. 

 As this publication is not always easily obtainable, it may be well 

 to note briefly some of the interesting points which Fauvel brings 

 out. It apparently has been known since the earliest times in Chinese 



^Jour. No. China Br. Roy. Asiat. Soc, XIII, 1879, pp. l-36f., 3 pi. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



literature, and there is mention of its growing to over ten feet in 

 length; and that its skin was formerly much used for drum-heads. 

 It is, however, generally spoken of as being from five to six feet long. 

 It may have existed formerly in various parts of China, and we are 

 told that the "Canton Annals" say that the head can be cut off and 

 dried before the animal dies, the muzzle can be broken into pieces 

 and all the teeth pulled out, and still it lives, the Cantonese having 

 a remarkable belief in the creature's great tenacity of life, the scales 

 of the "dragon" are used as medicine. The}^ are supposed to cure 

 diseases of the heart and intestines, fevers and female disorders, 

 diseases arising from fear, nose-bleeding and toothache. They are 

 also valued as a vermifuge, as a remedy for goitre and skin diseases. 

 Fauvel notes its history in Chinese literature since the Wu dynasty, 

 or from about 222-27 A.D. Curiously enough it has been very little 

 mentioned in foreign works on China. Marco Polo and Father M. 

 Martini both knew of it; but the former spoke only from hearsay, 

 while the priest derived his information from native literature (Martini, 

 Atlas Sinensis, Amsterdam, 1656). In Martini we find the following: 

 "Ad urbis ortum est lacus parvus Go, in quo olim Rex Pegao decern 

 aluit crocodilos, quibus, ut devorarentur objicere solebat reos et 

 sceleratos; ab iis innocentes numquam laesos fuisse narrant, adeoque, 

 quos crocodili non occiderent, liberi eo ipso, tanquam vacantes omni 

 culpa abire jubebantur." Martini also tells us that at Chingkiang 

 they infested the river to the great terror of the people. 



Morrison, in his monumental Chinese dictionary, states positively 

 that crocodiles occur in the Yangtse River; and Wells Williams, in 

 The Middle Kingdom also speaks of its occurrence ; but his information 

 also may have been derived from his studies of Chinese literature. 



The Shanghai Evening Courier for March 17, 1869, contains a 

 humorous account of several Englishmen who went to see a crocodile 

 exhibited in the native city of Shanghai. The Chinese who had it 

 said that it came from the mountains of Kiangsi. The Europeans 

 presumed that it had been brought from Siam, however, and vaguely 

 suggested that they might possibly be looking at a new species, little 

 realizing that they actually were. 



Fauvel has collected much other data. He states, for instance, 

 that he received a letter from Mr. Reynolds, also in the Customs 

 service, who saw a tame one in a temple pool near Nanking in April, 

 1853. Several were reported seen in the Yangtse near Chingkiang 

 by officers of gunboats and river steamers; while others were said 

 to have been kept alive in temples thereabouts. It seems that it 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



has been considered an act of merit for Buddhist priests to buy the 

 creatures from their captors whenever possible, and free them. 



Fauvel got his first specimen in April, 1879, and he published an 

 account of it in the North China Daily News on the 9th of May. This 

 specimen was dug from the mud of the river bank near Wuhu. He 

 later obtained a second specimen from Chingkiang, and later still 

 got a skull in the native city of Shanghai. He mentions two being- 

 kept alive by Herr von Mollendorff, German Consul at Shanghai, who 

 got his from Poyang Lake. 



Fauvel discusses the fact that the creature is also spoken of in 

 Korean literature, and seems rather to incline toward the belief that 

 it will ultimately be found in rivers or lakes of southern Korea. This, 

 however, is extremely unlikely, and it has only been definitely proved 

 to exist in the lower Yangtse River and its affluents. Fauvel sent his 

 type to Paris. 



We next hear of it in Yaillant. 2 This was simply a condensed 

 digest, translated into French, of Fauvel' s original description. Von 

 Mollendorff himself published a note 3 on the specimens which he 

 procured. In 1888 Dr. Oscar Boettger 4 published a note regarding 

 the history of the discovery of the species by Swinhoe and Fauvel, 

 and regarding the living specimens belonging to von Mollendorff. 



In 1890, Dr. G. A. Boulenger, 5 published a paper entitled "Remarks 

 on the Chinese Alligator," a specimen having been received at the 

 British Museum, and two others alive at the Gardens of the Zoological 

 Society. He contributed some notes regarding variations among 

 characters previously supposed to be diagnostic, but which were 

 really inconstant. His figures are excellent. 



Boettger mentions it again in the collection of Dr. Schmacker in 

 *■ Materialien zur herpetelogischen Faune von China, III." 6 



In 1898 Yaillant 7 contributed an excellent account in his "Con- 

 tribution a l'etude des Emydosauriens." 



Up to the present time in these various publications but ten speci- 

 mens altogether appear to have come to the collections of museums 

 in the Old World. As a considerable number of specimens lack definite 

 data, it is impossible as yet to limit its range with any degree of cer- 

 tainty. Most of the specimens have been taken near the two towns 



3 Ann. Sc. Nat., (6th) IX, Art. 8, 1880. 



3 Sitz. Ber. Niederrhein. Ges. Bonn, 1880, p. 32. 



4 Ber. Offenbach. Ver. f. Nat., 1889 (1888), p. 111. 



5 Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, p. 619, pis. 51, 52 

 8 Ber. Senck. Nat. Ges., 1894. p. 142. 



• 7 Nouv. Arch. Mus. Paris, (3) X, 1898, p. 206, pi. 13. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



of Wuhu and Chingkiang, though records exist for Poyang Lake and 

 Nangking. Thus it will be seen that the distribution is peculiarly 

 circumscribed. Gadon states that alligator remains have been found 

 in European fluviatile deposits of the Upper Chalk age. In fact, 

 they did not completely disappear from Europe until as late as the 

 Pliocene. The Chinese alligator is a survivor in a limited area, as is 

 our alligator, of some form which once had a holarctic distribution. 



The present specimen agrees very closely with Fauvel's original 

 description, and has the regular three pairs of nuchal plates. It is 

 just forty-eight inches long, of which the head takes up one-sixth. 

 Fauvel's adult specimen was five feet eight inches in length. Thus 

 it will be seen that this might almost be spoken of as a dwarf species. 



Since the above was written I have heard that Dr. Wolterstorff of 

 Magdeburg, has a specimen (no data given) 145 cm. in length. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



NOTES ON BATOID FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The ray-like fishes contained in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia are listed in this paper. 



1. Some Preoccupied Names. 



In looking over the literature on this subject a number of names 

 were found to be preoccupied, which are not represented in our col- 

 lection by specimens, and for them I have substituted the following: 



Raja montagui nom. sp. now For Raia maculata Montagu, Mem. 

 Wern. Soc, II, 1811-16, p. 426, preoccupied by Raja maculata Shaw, 

 Gen. Zool., VII, 1803, p. 16, which is identical with Raja torpedo 

 Linnaeus. 



Raja brachyurops nom. sp. nov. For Raja brachyura Gunther, 

 Rep. Challenger, Zool., I, 1880, p. 20, PL 6, preoccupied by Raia 

 brachyura Lafont, Act. Soc. Linn. Bordeaux, XXVIII, 1871, p. 503, 



PI. 28. 



Raja bon.e-speiexsis nom. sp. nov. For Raja capensis Miiller 

 and Henle, Syst. Besch. Plag., 1838, p. 151, preoccupied by Raja 

 capensis Gmelin, Syst. Nat. Linn., 1788, p. 1512, which is identical 

 with Narke Kaup. 



Raja steindachxeri nom. sp. nov. For Raja chilensis Stein- 

 dachner, Zool. Jahrb. Suppl.. IV, 1898, p. 332, preoccupied by Raia 

 chilensis Guichenot, Gay's Hist, Chile, II, 1848, p. 367. This species 

 appears close to Raja lima Poeppig. 



Raja agassizi ribeiroi, nom. sub. sp. nov. For Raja agassizi var. 

 picta Ribeiro, A Lavoura, Bol. Soc. Agric. Rio Janeiro, 1904, 

 p. 19, preoccupied by Raja picta Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV 



1803, p. 676. 



Discotrygon nom. gen. nov. Type Discobatis marginipinnis 

 Maclay and Macleay. For Discobatis Maclay and Macleay, Proc. 

 Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, X, 1885, p. 676, type Discobatis marginipinnis 

 Maclay and Macleay, preoccupied by Garman, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1881, p. 523 for Discobatidce, type Rhina sinesis Schneider. (Maxos, 

 disk; rpuywv Trygon.) 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



469 



2. List of Species in the Collection. 



PRISTID^. 



Pristis perotteti Mailer and Henle. 



Several saws, most likely this species, from Bahia, Gulf of Mexico 

 and Surinam. 

 Pristis pectinatus Latham. 



Many saws, from near Matamoras, Essequebo River, West Indies 

 and Atlantic Ocean. 



RHINOBATID^J. 



Rhynchobatus djeddensis (Forskal). 



One from Padang, Sumatra. 



Rhinobatos rhinobatos (Linnaeus). 



(Rhinobatus columnce- Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, XIV, 

 XVII, 1835-36, descr., PI. Italy.) 



Cotypes of R. columnce and dried example from Beirut, Syria. 

 Four examples. 

 Rhinobatos leuoorhynchus (Gunther). 



One from Panama. 



Rhinobatos productus (Girard). 



One from Santa Barbara. 



Fig. 1. — Platyrhinoidis triseriatus (Jordan and Gilbert). (Cotype of Platyrhina 



triseriata Jordan and Gilbert.) 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [May, 



Platyrhinoidis triseriatus (Jordan and Gilbert). Fig. 1. 



(Platyrhina triseriata Jordan and Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1SS0, 

 p. 36. Santa Barbara, Cal.) 



Cotype of P. triseriata, and two young from Monterey, Cal. 



RAJID^3. 

 Kaja erinacea Mitchill. 



Ten examples from Castine (Me.), Wood's Holl (Mass.), Sea Isle 

 City and Green Creek (N. J.). 

 Eaja ocellata Mitchill. 



Five examples from same localities as last. 



Raja radiata Donovan. 



Four egg-cases or "purses" from Manasquan, N. J., may in part 

 refer to this species. All contain embryos, two having very long 

 tails, thus seeming to agree with Goode and Bean's suggestion. 1 

 Three of egg-cases agree in having tendrils entire, and these contained 

 long-tailed embryos. The other egg had the tendrils coarsely cor- 

 rugated and contained a short-tailed embryo, which I cannot deter- 

 mine. The eggs are of nearly equal size, their bodies measuring about 

 2 inches. Another egg, labelled "Corsica," from Rev. R. H. Mossam, 

 contained a fully-developed embryo, unquestionably close to, if not 

 identical with, the present species. It differs from Goode and Bean's 

 figure chiefly in the absence of spines on the posterior pectoral regions. 

 If my determination be correct, the occurrence of this species on the 

 New Jersey coast is interesting, as this will prove the first record. 

 The New Jersey eggs were received from Dr. H. C. Everts. 

 Eaja eglanteria Lac^pede. 



Four examples from Atlantic City, Sea Isle City, Grassy Sound 

 and Green Creek (N. J.). 



Raja binoculata Girard. 

 Two from Pacific Grove, Cal. 



Kaja stellulata (Jordan and Gilbert). 



(Raia stellulata J. G., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, p. 133. Monterey, 

 Cal.) 



Cotype of R. stellulata. 



Eaja oxyrinchus Linnseus. 



Five from Italy. 

 Raja macrorynchus Rafinesque. 

 Five from Italy. 



1 Ocean. Ich., 1895, p. 25. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Raja batis Linnaeus. 



One from Italy. 



Raja rostrata Lac^pede. 



Six from Italy. This is R. marginata Bonaparte. 



Raja clavata Linnaeus. 



Seven from Italy. 



Raja brachyura (Lafont). 



One from the Mediterranean in the Bonaparte Coll. This seems 

 to be Lafont's species, and possibly Raia blanda Holt may be identical. 



Raja punctata Risso. 



Four from Italy. Wrongly identified by Bonaparte with R. batis L, 



Raja rhomboidalis Tilesius. 



Nine examples from Italy. Following Blainville's suggestion, 2 " 

 the account by Tilesius is very likely identical with that of Delaroche, 

 Possibly R. osbeckii Walbaum 3 = R. machuelo W. 3 = R. hispanica 

 Schneider 4 may be older synonyms? 



Raja miraletus Linnaeus. 



Twelve examples from Italy. 



Raja quadrimaculata Risso. 

 Two from Italy. 



Raja circularis Conch. 



(R. falsavela Bonaparte, Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, XXVI, 1839, 

 descr., PI. Italy.) 



Type of R. falsavela in poor condition. 



Raja radula Delaroche. 



One from Italy. 



Raja meerdervoortii Bleeker. 



Two from Hakodate. 



Psammobatis brevicaudatus Cope. Fig. 2. 



(Proc. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 1877, p. 48. Bav of Pecasmavo, 

 Peru.) 



Type of P. brevicaudatus. 



2 Faun. Franc, Vert., 1825, p. 26. 



3 Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 532 (based on O.beek). 

 *Syst. Ich. Bloch., 1801, p. 369 (based on Osbeok). 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



1 - #. ■ ' X 



I I : HI J 





Fig. 2. — Psammobatis brccicaudalus Cope. (Type.) 



NARCOBATID^J. 



Narcobatus torpedo (Linnaeus). 



Ten from Italy. 



EUNAB.CE subgen. nov. 

 Type Torpedo narke Risso. 



Differs from subgenus Narcobatus in having the spiracle fringes as 

 rudimentary papillae, while in subgenus Tetronarce they are entirely 

 absent. 

 (Eu ) genuine; vapx-q i Narce, the ancient name of the typical species.) 



Narcobatus narke (Risso). 



Nine from Italy. In this case Risso and Rafinesque are synchron- 

 ous, and I allow the former's name, as it is on an earlier page, besides 

 having gamed usage. 



Narcobatus nobiliana (Bonaparte). 



(Torpedo nobiliana Bon., Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, XII, 1835, descr., 

 PI. Italy.) 



Cotypes of T. nobiliana. Twenty-three examples. 



Narcobatus occidentalis (Storer). 



Four from Pacific Grove and Soquel, Cal. Storer's figure shows a 

 very large first dorsal, and its origin about over first fourth in entire 

 ventral length, so that hind margins of both fins are on a line. His 

 description says " it is situated at the posterior portions of the pectorals, 

 one half of its base being posterior to those fins." Goode's figure 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



shows an example from Wood's Holl with first dorsal origin well 

 posterior, or about opposite posterior basal fourth of ventral. Jordan 

 and Evermann pointed out differences between Atlantic and Pacific 

 forms from North America, stating the former to be nearly uniform 

 black, rarely spotted, and having the first dorsal over middle of ven- 

 trals, all of which can be found in my examples noted above from the 

 Pacific. At the same time they reproduce Goode's figure and my 

 Soquel specimen, the former certainly more in agreement with some 

 of my Pacific examples, and the latter approaching nearer that of 

 Storer. The question of spotted coloration does not seem to me 

 reliable. 



Narcine brasiliensis (Olfers). 



One from Key West. 



DASYATIDJE. 

 Urolophus halleri Cooper. 



One from San Pedro, Cal. 



Urolophus nebulosus Garman. 



One from San Diego, Cal. 



Urolophus jamaicensis (Cuvier). 

 Two, from Florida and Cuba. 



Urolophus mundus (Gill). 



Three young from Panama. 

 Taeniura lymma (Forskal). 



One from Padang, Sumatra. 



Dasyatis uamak (Forskal). 



Three from Padang, Sumatra (one now in Stanford University). 

 Dasyatis centroura (Mitchill)? 

 Young without data, most likely this species. 



Dasyatis aldrovandi (Risso). 



Three tails, probably this species, from the Mediterranean. 



Dasyatis akajei (Mailer and Henle). 



Four young from Onomichi, Japan. 



Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). 



Four from Delaware Bay off Green Creek, wrongly thought by me 

 to be D. centroura. 5 The rediscovery of the present species in New 

 Jersey is of considerable interest, as it has not before been correctly 



5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1909, p. 407. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



identified from there since Le Sueur's time. In 1S38 Miiller and 

 Henle report one from New York ; and in 1882 Garman notes it from 

 the same locality with others from Florida and Brazil. The differences 

 pointed out by the latter, in separating this species from Trygon 

 hastata De Kay, do not seem to me to be altogether conclusive that 

 the latter is really a species distinct from the present. My examples 

 seem to cover the alleged points of difference to a great extent. Small 

 examples seem to be entirely smooth, and others have three short rows 

 of spines on middle of disk, when large. In the summer of 1907 

 I first thought these rays were most likely the present species, but 

 the variation seemed to confuse them with T. hastata. The character 

 of a broad fold above and below on the tail may be reliable, but my 

 examples also show three series of tubercles on shoulders, at least the 

 large ones. Others with broad tail folds also show the median ver- 

 tebral row of thorns distinct and becoming enlarged posteriorly, 

 besides a roughened tail. In fact. I have noted examples which agree 

 with Le Sueur's figure of Raja say and De Kay's and Storer's of 

 Trygon hastata, and that these are individual variations due to age 

 and sex I have no doubt. 



Dasyatis sabina (Le Sueur). 



Two from Bayport, Fla., and another without data. 



Dasyatis pastinaca (Linnams). 

 Ten from Italy and one from Beirut, Syria. 



Dasyatis ujo Rafinesque. 



{Trygon brucco Bonaparte, Icon, Faun. Ital., Peso. Ill, pt. 2, VI, 1S3-J. 

 descr., PI. Italy.) 



Cotypes of T. brucco, two examples. 



PTEROPLATYTRYGON subgen. nov. 

 Type Trygon violaceum Bonaparte. 



Disk width much greater than length, front margin broadly convex. 

 No upper tail fold after caudal spines. 



From Hemitrygon Miiller and Henle this differs in the broad disk, 

 obtuse in front, and suggesting Pteroplatea. The small snout tip is 

 within a slight emargination of the front edge of the disk. 



(Ihepov, fin; -karu?, broad; rf>uyu)^ y Trygon.) 



Dasyatis violaceus (Bonaparte). 



{Trygon violaceum Bon., Icon. Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, I, 1832, descr., 

 PI. Italy.) 



Cotypes of T. violaceum Bon., two examples. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Pteroplatea altavela (Linnaeus). 



One from Italy. 

 Pteroplatea marmorata Cooper. 

 One from San Diego, Cal. 



MYLIOBATIDJE. 

 Myliobatis bovina G. St. Hilaire. 



One from Italy. 



Myliobatis aquila (Linnaeus). 



{M. noctula Bon., Icon. Faun. Ital., Peso. Ill, pt. 2, II, 1S33, descr., PI. Italy.) 



Cotype of M. noctula, three examples. 

 Myliobatis freminvillii Le Sueur. 



Four from Newport, R. I., and Sea Isle City, X. J. One has two 

 caudal spines. 



Myliobatis californicus Gill. 

 Young from San Diego, Cal. 



Aetobatus narinari (Euphrasen). 



One without data. 



Rhinoptera bonasus (Mitchill). 



Beaufort, N. C, and Ocean City, N. J., two examples. 



MOBULIDiE. 



Manta birostris (Walbaum). 



Eye of large example from Stone Harbor, N. J. 




476 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



DESCRIPTION OF FOUR NEW CYPRINOIDS (RHODEIN.E). 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The following are all contained in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Three other species, well known, 

 are also listed for comparison in this connection to exhibit the varia- 

 tions, as represented by rather good series. 



Rhodeus sericeus (Pallas). 



Head 3f to 4; depth 2\ to 2f ; D. usually iii, 9, i, rarely iii, 8, i; 

 A. usually iii, 8, i, frequently iii. 9, i; scales 34 to 37, usually 6 tubes 

 + 3; 10 to 12 transverse scales from dorsal; 14 to 17 predorsal scales; 

 snout 3£ to 3^ in head; eye 2^ to 3£; maxillary 3£ to 4£; inter- 

 orbital 2\ to 2f ; teeth 5 — 5; length 2 to 2f inches. Europe; Italy 

 (Bonaparte 427). 



Rhodeus maculatus sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Acheilognathus imberbis J. F. Abbott, Proc. I". S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, 1901, 

 p. 484, Pei Ho River, at Tien Tsin. China. (Part.) 



Head 3|; depth 2*; D. iii, 10, i; A. iii, 10, i; P. I, 11?; V. i, 7; 

 scales 30 + 2; tubes 5; 11 scales transversely, between dorsal and 



Fig. 1. — Rhodeus maculatus Fowler. (Type.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



anal origins; 12 predorsal scales; head width If its length; head 

 depth at occiput 1£; snout 4^; eye 2f ; maxillary 3^; interorbital 

 2h; first branched dorsal ray 1£; first branched anal ray 1£; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 2; pectoral If; ventral If. 



Body well compressed, deep, contour ovoid, edges convexly rounded, 

 and greatest depth about ventral origin. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, least depth about 1^ its length. 



Head small, compressed, deep, flattened sides but slightly convergent 

 below, and lower profile a little more inclined than upper. Snout 

 short, convex over surface and end, projecting beyond mandible, 

 and length about f its width. Eye large, circular, scarcely elevated, 

 and center about first § in head. Mouth small, inferior, well inclined. 

 Premaxillaries protractile down and forward. Lips rather thin, 

 firm, moderate. Maxillary small, well inclined, more or less con- 

 cealed, to hind no. of nl or scarcely to eye. Mandible depressed, small, 

 included in upper jaw when closed, and rami well elevated inside 

 mouth. Tongue obsolete, apparently adnate, fleshy, and scarcely 

 differentiated from floor of mouth. Jaw edges firm, slightly tren- 

 chant. Nostrils large, together, anterior circular with rather broad 

 posterior cutaneous margin exposing posterior in narrow crescent. 

 Interorbital broadly and evenly convex. Preorbital small, trapezoidal, 

 length If in eye. Postorbital width much less than infraorbital, latter 

 about 3 in eye. Posterior preopercle margin convex, nearly vertical 

 above. 



Gill-opening forward to hind preopercle margin, or about last f 

 in head. Rakers about 2 + 8? short weak fleshy points, much less 

 than filaments, and latter about f of eye. Pseudobranchise a little 

 shorter than filaments. Teeth 5-5, compressed, pointed, with slight 

 grinding surfaces with entire edges. 



Scales large, narrowly imbricated on sides of body, disposed in even 

 longitudinal series, and but slightly smaller on edges of body and 

 breast. Axillary scale short, rounded, not pointed. L. 1. consisting 

 of only 5 short tubes at shoulder, each extending over first half of 

 scale exposure and in a straight series. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 third simple ray longest, though first branched subequal, depressed 

 fin 1^ to caudal base. Anal inserted about opposite first third of 

 dorsal base, fin similar, depressed 1^ to caudal base. Caudal forked, 

 a little longer than head, lobes pointed, equal. Pectoral a little beyond 

 ventral, upper rays longest. Ventral inserted a little before dorsal, 

 to anal. Vent midway in post ventral. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Color in alcohol faded largely uniform pale brownish, scarcely paler 

 below. Upper surface of head and back above 1. 1. sprinkled with 

 minute dusky dots, forming a patch just above gill-opening at shoulder, 

 •and another elongated area beginning shortly posterior and extending 

 parallel with dorsal profile to caudal peduncle, where it is replaced a 

 little below by a narrow median streak or line of dusky. Fins all 

 pale brownish, a dusky blotch a little smaller than eye midway in 

 height, and sloping down to its base, on front of dorsal. Iris slaty. 



Length H inches. 



Type, No. 29, 472, A. N. S. P. Pei Ho River, at Tien Tsin, China. 

 N. F. Drake. From Stanford University. 



Also No. 29, 473, paratype, same data, agrees in most respects. 



This species is related to R. sineyisis Gunther, but differs in the 

 .-absence of a narrow intensely black-edged anal fin, and having 5 

 tubes in its lateral line. R. sinesis is said to have 1. 1. tubes 3, though 

 this character may be variable. From R. ocellatus (Kner) it differs 

 in the dark dorsal blotch, though otherwise mostly agrees. Jordan 

 and Seale's Shanghai example 1 differed in being almost uniform 

 •silvery and having 1. 1. tubes 3. From the Japanese species it also 

 differs, as R. oryzce Jordan and Seale, 2 R. tanago Tanaka 3 and R. miobuta 

 Tanaka 4 all have barbels. 



(Macalatus, spotted.) 



Acheilognathus lanceolatus (Schlegel). 



Head 3f to 4; depth 2\ to 3; D. usually iii, 8, i, often iii, 9, i, rarely 

 iii, 10, i; A. usually iii, 9, i or iii, 10, i, rarely iii, 11, i; scales usually 

 34, frequently 33, 35 or 36, seldom 32, rarely 31 + usually 2, seldom 

 3; usually 6 scales above 1. 1., rarely 5; 4 scales below 1. 1.; usually 

 16 predorsal scales, occasionally 15 or, 17, rarely 13, 14 or 18; snout 

 '3^ to 3f in head; eye 2i to 3i; maxillary 3 to 4; interorbital 2\ to 

 '2| ; teeth 5-5 ; length \\ to 34/ inches. L. Biwa at Matsubara, Kurume, 

 Katana (all Jordan and Synder), Jap. (Otaki.) A very large series. 



Acheilognathus limbatus (Schlegel). 



Head 3| to 4; depth 2\ to 3; D. usually iii, 10, i, often iii, 11, i, 

 or iii, 12, i or iii, 13, i; A. usually iii, 10, i, often iii, 9, i; scales 35 or 

 36 + usually 3, often 2; 6 scales above 1. 1.; usually 4 scales below 

 1. 1., rarely 5; 14 to 17 predorsal scales; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 

 2\ to 3^; maxillary Z\ to 4; interorbital 2f to 2\; teeth 5-5; length 



1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIX, 1905, p. 518. 



2 L. c, XXX, 1906, p. 144. 



3 Journ. College of Scl, XXVII, 1909, p, 10. 

 4 L. c.,p. 12. 




1910.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



479 



1£ to 3£ inches. Nagaya, Tsuruga and L. Biwa at Matsubara (all 

 Jordan and Snyder), Jap. 



RHODEOP8 subgen. nov. 



Type Acheilognathus brevianalis sp. nov. 



This differs from the subgenus Acheilognathus Bleeker in the 

 absence of maxillary barbels. 



{ t IJ6Sov ) rose, hence Rhodeus; &<l>, appearance.) 



Fig. 2. — Acheilognathus brevianalis Fowler. (Type.) 



Acheilognathus brevianalis sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3f; depth 3£; D. iii, 8, i; A. iii, 7, i; P. i, 12?; V. i, 7; scales 

 37 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 3 more on latter; 6 scales above 1. 1. ; 

 4 scales below 1. 1. ; 14 predorsal scales; head width \ its length; 

 head depth at occiput 1^; snout 3f ; eye 3f; maxillary 4^; inter- 

 orbital 2f ; first branched dorsal ray 1^; first branched anal ray 1|; 

 least depth caudal peduncle 2\; pectoral 1|; ventral 2. 



Body well compressed, rather deep, contour nearly ellipsoid, edges 

 convexly rounded, and greatest depth at dorsal origin. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, least depth h its length. 



Head small, deep, compressed, sides flattened and but slightly 



convergent below, and lower profile more inclined than upper.. 



Snout short, convex over surface, end rather obtuse, projecting 



slightly beyond closed mandible, and length f- its width. Eye large, 



31 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May.. 



circular, scarcely high, and center near first § in head. Mouth small,, 

 inferior, well inclined. Premaxillaries protractile down and forward. 

 Lips thick, fleshy, rather broad. No barbel. Maxillary small, 

 well inclined, more or less concealed, to front nostril. Mandible 

 depressed, small, included in upper jaw, and rami well elevated inside 

 mouth. Tongue obsolete, apparently adnate, fleshy, and scarcely 

 differentiated from floor of mouth. Nostrils large, together, anterior 

 circular with cutaneous posterior margin exposing posterior in narrow 

 crescent. Interorbital broadly and evenly convex. Preorbital large, 

 trapezoidal, length lj in eye. Postorbital width about f of eye, and 

 other suborbitals moderately wide. Posterior margin of preopercle 

 slightly inclined anteriorly. 



Gill-opening forward about to hind eye margin, or nearly midway 

 in head. Rakers about 2 + S short weak feeble points, about ^ of 

 filaments, and latter about § of eye. Pseudobranchia* little less than 

 filaments. Teeth 5-5, compressed, broad, ends curved over in a 

 slight hook, and with slight grinding-surfaces, their edges and sur- 

 faces entire. Intestine long. Peritoneum dark. Long ovipositor 

 (female) nearly equal half of body length. 



Scales large, rather narrowly imbricated on sides of body, and 

 disposed in series parallel with 1. 1. Scales on edges of body a trifle 

 smaller than elsewhere, and on breast much smaller. Short and rather 

 pointed axillary ventral scale. L. 1. complete, decurved a little, and 

 tubes simple, extending over about first § of each exposed scale. 



Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base, 

 first branched ray highest, depressed fin about T 6 T to caudal base.. 

 Anal inserted about opposite base of last dorsal ray, first branched 

 ray longest, depressed fin about If to caudal base. Caudal (now 

 damaged) emarginate. Pectoral short, upper rays longest, fin pointed,, 

 reaches about § to ventral. Latter inserted about opposite dorsal 

 origin and reaches vent. Vent close before anal, but immediately 

 in front is the long ovipositor, and though shrunken considerably 

 now evidently protruded as far posteriorly as the end of the caudal.. 

 Color in alcohol largely dull brownish, becoming paler on sides. 

 and below, the latter with silvery reflections. Upper surface of head 

 brownish, slightly dusky on snout and above eyes, and sides bright 

 silvery-white. Muzzle more or less brownish, though mandible pale. 

 Parallel with vertebral column a narrow diffuse dusky streak along 

 trunk, and this most pronounced posteriorly or along side of caudal 

 peduncle. Fins all plain pale brownish. Iris silvery-white. 

 Length (ends of caudal slightly damaged) If inches. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



481 



Type, No. 28, 580, A. N. S. P. Lake Biwa at Matsubara, in Omi, 

 Japan. Jordan and Synder. From Stanford University. 



The above is the only example I have, and was found among a 

 number of small fishes received from Stanford University several 

 years ago. It appears to differ from Acheilognathus hiniantegus 

 (Gimther) and A. mesembrinum Jordan and Evermann, both from 

 Formosa, in the fewer anal rays. From A. cyanostigma Jordan and 

 Fowler, it differs in coloration. Both A. himantegus and A. longi- 

 pinnis (Regan), the latter from L. Biwa, differ in having barbels. 



(Brevis, short; analis, anal; with reference to the short anal fin.) 



Paracheilognathus peihoensis sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Acheilognathus imberbis J. F. Abbott, Proe. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, 1901, 

 p. 484, Pei Ho River, at Tien Tsin, China. (Part.) 



Head 3f; depth 2\; D. iii, 12, i; A. ii, 10, i; P. i, 15; V. i, 7; 



Fig. 3. — Paracheilognathus peihoensis Fowler. (Type.) 



scales 34 in 1. 1. to caudal base, and 2 more on latter; 6 scales above 

 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1.; 15 predorsal scales; head width If its length; 

 head depth at occiput about 1£; snout 3f; eye 3; maxillary 3|; 

 interorbital 2\; third dorsal spine \\; second anal spine If; least 

 depth caudal peduncle If; pectoral \\; ventral 1£. 



Body rather deep, well compressed, contour ovoid with greatest 

 depth anterior or about midway in preventral region, profiles similar, 

 and edges apparently all evenly convex. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 least depth about equals its length. 




£82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Head deep, compressed, mostly flattened sides scarcely constricted 



below, and lower profile little more inclined than concave upper. 



•Snout short, convex over surface, end rather obtuse, projecting beyond 



mandible, and length about f its width. Eye large, circular, not 



high, and center near first third in head. Premaxillary protractile 



down and forward. Lips moderately thick, fleshy. Maxillary 



;small, mostly concealed, to hind nostril. No barbel. Mandible 



depressed, small, included in upper jaw, and rami well elevated inside 



mouth. Tongue fleshy, little distinct, adnate. Jaw edges rather 



pliable, blunt. Nostrils large, together, anterior circular and with 



'cutaneous posterior margin exposing posterior in narrow crescent. 



Jnterorbital broadly convex. Preorbital small, trapezoidal, length 



H in eye. Postorbital width about J of eye, postero-infraorbital 



wider, and antero-infraorbital much narrower. Posterior margin 



•of preopercle convex, inclined a little forward. 



Gill-opening forward about last third in head, or about to hind 

 preopercle margin. Rakers about 2 + 6? short weak fleshy points, 

 much less than filaments, and latter about § of eye. Pseudobranchise 

 little less than filaments. Teeth 5-5, compressed, broad ends curved 

 over in a slight hook, and with moderately broad grinding-surfaces, 

 their edges crenulated. 



Scales large, rather narrowly imbricated on sides of body, and 

 exposed in series parallel with 1. 1. Scales on edges of body and breast 

 .a trifle smaller than others. Pointed axillary ventral scale with greater 

 outer portion free, equals ^ of fin. L. 1. complete, straight, not decurved, 

 :and tubes simple, extending about first half of each exposed scale. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 •first branched ray (damaged) evidently longest, depressed fin about 

 § to caudal base. First 3 anterior dorsal rays spinous, straight, 

 Tobust. Anal inserted about opposite base of eighth branched dorsal 

 ray, its first branched ray longest, depressed fin f to caudal base. 

 First 2 anterior anal rays spinous, straight, robust. Both dorsal and 

 :anal depressible in a scaly basal groove. Caudal forked, lobes pointed.. 

 Pectoral short, rounded or expanded distally, f to ventral. Latter 

 "inserted a little before dorsal, and about to anal. Vent about midway 

 In postcentral region, and ensheathed behind base of the fleshy ovi- 

 positor, latter beginning just behind ventral bases and reaching back 

 well beyond anal front. 



Color in alcohol faded dull brownish almost entirely, with traces 

 of slight silvery sheen, especially on opercle. Lower part of body 

 scarcely paler. Back sprinkled with minute pale dusky dots. Iris 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483" 



grayish, evidently silvery. An elongated deep-brown blotch, a little 

 longer than eye, about level with latter's upper edge just behind 

 gill-opening. Behind this an indistinct pale streak, margined narrowly 

 above from about opposite base of ventrals almost to caudal base 

 with a narrow blackish line. Dorsal pale brownish with about 3 pale- 

 dusky blotches on each ray, forming as many longitudinal series of 

 spots, though upper 2 rows closer together. Other fins all plain 

 pale brown. 



Length 2h inches. 



Type, No. 29,468, A. N. S. P. Pei Ho River, at Tien Tsin, China. 

 N. F. Drake. From Stanford University. 



Also Nos. 29,469 to 29,471, paratypes, same data. Head 3f to 4; 

 depth 2f to 2f; D. hi, 14, i once, iii, 12, i, usually; A. ii, 10, i; scales 

 33 or 34 + 2; 6 scales above 1. 1.; 5 scales below 1. 1.; 15 or 16 

 predorsal scales; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye 2f to 3^; maxillary 3$ 

 to 4; interorbital 2f to 2f ; teeth 5-5; length 2|- to 3f inches. 



Related to Paracheilognathus imberbis Bleeker, but differing chiefly 

 in the presence of the dark shoulder blotch. Bleeker's description 

 fails to note this character, and his figure 5 also does not indicate 

 it. His example has been thought by Giinther 6 to be different from 

 the latter's Achilognathus imberbis 7 , which is said to have both dorsal 

 and anal radii 12. Paracheilognathus rhombeus (Schlegel) from 

 Japan, differs from my species in having maxillary barbels and more 

 scales below the 1. 1. Acanthorhodeus dicaus Rutter from Swatow, 8 

 agrees with this latter in having maxillary barbels, and is therefore 

 not identical. 



(Named for the Pei Ho River, in the Province of Pechili, China.) 



HEMIGRAMMOCYPRIS gen. nov. 

 Type Hemigrammoeypris rasborella sp. nov. 



Body compressed, ellipsoid, moderately deep, postventral tren- 

 chant. Head moderate. Snout short. Eye moderate. Mouth 

 moderate, well inclined. Premaxillaries protractile. Maxillary well 

 inclined, not reaching eye. No barbels. Jaws firm, mandible slightly 

 protruding. Interorbital broadly convex. Rakers small. Pseudo- 

 branchiae well developed. Teeth 1, 3, 5-5, 3, 1, hooked, with slight 

 grinding-surfaces. Scales large, about 30, narrowly imbricated.. 



6 



5 Yerh. Kon. Ak. Wetensch. (Mem. Cyprin. Chine), XII, 1871, p. 37, PI. 4 t 



fig. 1. 



6 Zool. Record, 1871, p. 107. 



7 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., VII, 1868, p. 278. 

 % Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1897, p. 58. 




484 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



L. 1. incomplete, decurved, not extending beyond ventral base. Dor- 

 sal about midway between hind pupil margin and caudal base, rays 

 all flexible, contains 8 branched. Anal inserted close behind dorsal 

 base, rays all flexible, contains 8 branched. Caudal emarginate. 

 Pectoral f to ventral. Ventral inserted little before dorsal, about 

 | to anal. Vent close to anal. Size small. 



This genus seems to be related to Rasbora, but differs in the incomplete 

 I. 1. From Zacco and Opsariichthys it also differs in the same char- 

 acter, besides others, such as the larger scales, etc. 



('-£/*«, half; ypafifiij, line; xbitpi$ } Cypris.) 



Hemigrammocypris rasborella -p. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3£; depth 3; D. iii, 7, i; A. hi, 8, i; P. i, 11; V. i, 6; scales 

 in lateral series to caudal base 32 + 2; 12 scales transversely, between 

 dorsal and anal origins; 13 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length ; 

 head depth at occiput If; first branched dorsal ray If; first branched 

 anal ray 1*; least depth caudal peduncle 2h; pectoral If; ventral 

 If; snout 4 in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3^; maxillary 

 3; interorbital 3. 



Fig. 4. — Hemigrammocypris rasborella Fowler. (Type.) 



Body compressed, moderately deep, rather ellipsoid, greatest 

 depth at dorsal origin, post ventral trenchant and other edges convexly 

 rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 1^ its length. 



Head compressed, moderate, flattened sides slightly converging 

 below, upper profile nearly straight and less inclined than lower, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



which forms an angle at mandibular articulation. Snout convex 

 over surface, upper profile straight, and length about £ its width. 

 Eye circular, moderate, a little high, and center near first third in 

 head. Mouth moderate, well inclined. Premaxillaries protractile 

 anteriorly down. Lips firm, scarcely distinct from jaws. Maxillary 

 well inclined to hind nostril. Mandible prominent, depressed, pro- 

 truding beyond snout tip, moderate, and rami a little elevated inside 

 mouth. Tongue fleshy, not free. Jaw edges firm, scarcely trenchant 

 and laterally on each side of upper a broad notch. Nostrils large, 

 together, anterior circular with rather broad posterior cutaneous 

 margin exposing posterior in narrow crescent. Interorbital broadly 

 and evenly convex. Preorbital moderate, trapezoidal, length 1^ 

 in eye. Postorbital width 2^ in eye. and infraorbitals scarcely more. 

 Posterior preopercle margin vertical, or sloping but slightly back- 

 wards below. 



Gill-opening forward nearly midway in head, not quite to hind eye 

 margin. Rakers about 2 + 8? firm points, about 4 in filaments, 

 and latter about If in eye. Pseudobranchise a little less than fila- 

 ments. Teeth 1, 3, 5-5, 3, 1, ends hooked, and larger with slight 

 smooth grinding-surfaces, edges also smooth. 



Scales large, narrowly imbricated, on sides of body, disposed in 

 even longitudinal series, and smaller on edges of body and breast. 

 Axillary ventral scale short, little pointed, mostly adnate. L. 1. 

 decurved slightly below lowest third in greatest body depth, incom- 

 plete, and only extending opposite ventral base. Tubes short, each 

 over about first § of exposed scale, simple, and 12 in number. 



Dorsal origin nearly midway between hind pupil margin and caudal 

 base, first blanched ray longest, depressed fin If to caudal base. 

 Anal inserted just behind dorsal base, fin similar, depressed 1£ to 

 caudal base. Caudal emarginate, lobes equal, little pointed. Pec- 

 toral | to ventral, upper rays longest. Ventral inserted a little before 

 dorsal, nearly midway between tip of muzzle and caudal base. Vent 

 simple, close before anal. 



Color in alcohol generally dull brownish, a little paler below. Back 

 and upper surface of head sprinkled with minute dusky dots, becoming 

 a little more sparse and larger on opercle and longitudinally along 

 middle of side, most pronounced superiorly. Concurrent with verte- 

 bral column a dusky streak, diffuse largely, and becoming more dis- 

 tinct and emphasized along caudal peduncle side, but fading out at 

 pale caudal base. Fins all pale brownish, dorsal, caudal and upper 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



pectoral rays all sprinkled with minute dull dusky dots. Snout pale 

 dusky. Lips pale. Iris whitish. 



Length 2 T a g- inches. 



Type. No. 29,162, A. N. S. P. Lake Biwa at Matsubara in Omi, 

 Japan. Jordan and Snyder. From Stanford University. 



A large number of small examples, with the same data, were received 

 with the other small cyprinoids some years ago. 



(Rasborella, diminutive, from Rasbora, a related genus.) 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



487 



A NEW HAITIAN OLIGOCENE HORIZON. 





BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Messrs. W. W. Webster and Edmond Roumain, in the course of 

 explorations in Haiti in 1905, located several beds of fossils, all appar- 

 ently of Oligocene age. 



The number of species obtained is not sufficient for any comparison 

 with the Santo Domingo beds, yet the diversity of what were found 

 may indicate a slightly different horizon. The following forms have 

 been identified from a bed exposed in a stream on the road between 

 Las Caobas and Hinche. 

 Potamides roumaini n. sp. Fig. l. 



The shell is conic, rapidly and regularly tapering, rather thick and 

 solid. The summit is lost in adults, the breach 

 closed by a strongly convex plug. 6^ whorls 

 remain, sculptured as follows: each whorl bears 

 three strong spiral ridges, of which the upper one, 

 forming a projecting ledge immediately below 

 the suture, is strongest, the others equal, and 

 nearly as wide as the intervals, which are marked 

 with growth-lines. On the first two whorls the 

 ridges are made nodose by rather close longitu- 

 dinal waves, but on the last three whorls the 

 ridges are smooth and even. The last whorl has 

 about six smooth ridges below the subsutural 

 ledge, and a few very weak ones on the base. 

 The aperture is trapezoidal, channelled at both 

 ends. Outer lip thick, expanded, protruding 

 below. Columella short, thick. 



Length 24, diam. 13 mm. 



Potamides hillsboroensis (Heilprin) has some resemblance to this 

 species, but it is more nearly related to P. suprasulcatus (Gabb), from 

 which P. roumaini differs as follows: it is a smaller and narrower 

 shell ; the subsutural cord is more prominent ; the other spiral cords 

 are stronger. 



Potamides roumaini is named in honor of Mr. Edmond Roumain 

 of Port-au-Prince. In a second specimen 1\ whorls remain. 



Pota m ides ro u m aini. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Potamides caobasensis n. sp. Fig. 2. 



The shell is conic-turrit e, rather solid, 6+ whorls remaining, the 

 summit truncate, closed by a convex plug. There 

 is a prominent ridge forming a narrow, hori- 

 zontal ledge below the suture. Below this ledge 

 the surface is flat, smooth and vertical. The 

 last whorl is rounded at periphery and base. The 

 aperture is injured, but apparently formed much 

 as in P. roumaini. 



Length of broken shell 23 mm. 



A peculiar species, distinguished by its smooth 

 whorls, prominent below the suture. 

 Natica rugosa Gmel. 



A single specimen, found with the preceding. 



Potamides caobas- Area websteri n. sp. 



ensis - Shell of moderate size, the alt. contained nearly 



1^ times in the length, inflated, thick and heavy, with strongly ele- 

 vated prosogyrate beaks. Left valve with 32 strong, abruptly elevated 

 ribs which are closely sculptured with transverse nodules, and are 

 a little wider than their intervals. On the posterior slope the ribs 

 lose the nodules, gradually decrease in elevation and are rounded, 

 becoming quite weak near the hinge border. The basal margin 

 converges posteriorly towards the hinge line, and is full and convex 

 anteriorly; anterior end rounded, posterior end convex, obliquely 

 subtruncate. Hinge bearing about 2,438 teeth, an irregular tooth 

 or two near the middle, terminal teeth larger but straight or nearly 

 so. Cardinal area short and wide, marked with several resiliary 

 grooves forming 3 or 4 concentric lozenges. The terminal and basal 

 margins of the valves are deeply fluted, and the interior conspicuously 

 striated. 



Length 42.5, alt. 34, diam. of left valve 17.3 mm. ; length of hinge- 

 line 28.5 mm. 



This fine ark is closely related to the recent A. chemnitzii but 

 differs by the greater number of radial ribs and the heavier, larger 

 shell. ^4. staminea Say is also related. It is represented by numerous 

 left valves and fragments, some of the latter indicating that it attains 

 a larger size than the type specimen. The two valves are presumably 

 alike in sculpture. 



In several valves in the lot, the cardinal area is decidedly narrower 

 than in the type. These may possibly represent another species. 

 Type No. 1.312 A. N. S. P. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Area sp. undet. 



A single right valve was taken representing another species having 

 more numerous ribs decidedly narrower than their intervals. As it 

 is somewhat imperfect, description is deferred. 

 Ostrea sp. 



Oysters occur in some quantity in a bed between Los Cahobas and 

 Formonde. The species has not been determined. Another oyster 

 bed was found in the mountains north of Lake Assuei. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July^ 



DESCRIPTION OF NEW SERPULIDS FROM BERMUDA WITH NOTES ON 

 KNOWN FORMS FROM ADJACENT REGIONS. 



BY KATHARINE J. BUSH, PH.D. 



The following descriptions of species of Serpulids are of forms (six 

 of which are considered as new to science) collected at Bermuda by 

 Professor A. E. Yerrill and party, in 1S9S and 1901 ; also at the Island 

 of Dominica, W. I., by A. H. Yerrill, in 1906. 



A full description is given of the rediscovered species Pomatostegus 

 bracliysoma of Schmarda who failed to mention characters which, at 

 the present time, are considered of great importance in determining 

 genera and species. Notes are also given'of some of Mcintosh's species 

 in which the genera is questionable; but the specimens are not suf- 

 ficiently well preserved to reveal anyTadditional facts, so that the exact 

 genera must still remain undetermined. 



Mention is made of most, if not all, of the species belonging to the 

 group found in the southern waters, and figures are introduced of 

 important features of known Mediterranean forms collected at Beirut, 

 Syria, and thought to have been incorrectly determined. 



SALMACINOPSIS gen. nov. 



This genus resembles Claparede's genus Salmacina, 1869 and 1870, 

 (type S. incrustana Clap.), in having few branchiae, no operculum and 

 9 thoracic segments, but differs in having simple tapered setae without 

 fin-like basal expansion, in the collar fascicle and different shaped 

 uncini, which are similar to those in the genus Protula, from which the 

 9 thoracic segments, absence of thoracic membrane and the peculiar 

 branchiae readily distinguish it. Type, the following species: 



Salmacinopsis setosa sp. nov. 



Numerous slender, rounded, rather fragile tubes attached their entire 

 length were taken from a piece of dark green glass. They are of 

 uniform diameter, more or less irregularly curved, without sculpture, 

 roughened by irregular lines of growth. 



Body rounded, of uniform size, with broadly rounded blunt posterior 

 end. Anteriorly without distinct segmentation but posteriorly divided 

 into well-rounded segments on one side. Thoracic region defined 

 only by setae and tori, there being 9 fascicles of seta? alternating with 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



8 tori in a straight series. No thoracic membrane along sides or 

 posteriorly but an indistinctly four-lobed collar of moderate uniform 

 depth, lapping along the median line, reaching but a short distance 

 posteriorly with broadly rounded ends ; lateral incisions or clefts the 

 depth of collar forming three definite unequal parts, the middle one 

 emarginate in the center appearing as an indistinct double lobe. 

 Branchial lobes in the form of a rather deep collar-like membrane 

 attached in a semicircle to the comparatively small stem-like cephalic 

 lobe. The branchiae, 4 on each side in the largest example, arise from 

 this border and are peculiar in being but two sided, i.e., broad, flattened, 

 thin with a single row of rather stout long pinnae in the middle of the 

 inner surface, leaving a wide somewhat puckered margin or border on 

 each side. They are equal in length, twisted about each other in 

 retraction, and have elongated tapered naked tips. No operculum. 

 Tori and uncini of uniform size throughout entire body. Small 

 fascicles of setae on abdomen. Setae on thorax long, slender, tapered, 

 simple blades with long capillary ends, a few without blades, and in 

 the last three fascicles (7-9) a few with short blades and long, broad- 

 ened, deeply serrate ends. Setae on abdomen strongly bent at base 

 of moderately wide, somewhat abruptly tapered, conspicuously serrate 

 blades; additional long stiff hair-like ones along caudal region. Uncini 

 resembling those of Protula, with numerous exceedingly fine appressed 

 teeth and one very long fang-like end or terminal one. 

 Protula sp. 



Two imperfect unattached tubes of good size, over 40 mm. long and 

 4 mm. in diameter, are slightly tapered and somewhat tortuous, the 

 surface roughened by fine lines of growth. Only the branchial lobes 

 of the animal were found and are of interest in being elongated into 

 a spiral of about one and a half turns bearing numerous, between 

 thirty and forty (30-40), long slender branchiae having elongated 

 tapered naked tips; they undoubtedly belong to a species of typical 

 Protula. 



■ Protula diomeda? Benedict, 1886, has similar branchial lobes but 

 is a very much larger species, building tubes 4 or 5 inches long. 

 The type was found off Cape Hatteras, N. C, in 43 fathoms. Other 

 specimens are cited from the Gulf of Mexico in 111 fathoms, and 

 further rather remarkable range is given as extending north from 

 Chesapeake Bay to the Grand Banks in 65 to 1,290 fathoms. Protula 

 alba Benedict, 1886, from shallow water at St. Thomas, W. I., has but 

 twenty- five branchiae. 



Protula submedia Augener. 1906, from off the Windward Islands in 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



127 to 248 fathoms, has uncini very like those of P. diomedce. Protula 

 antennata Ehlers, 1887, found off Cuba in 292 fathoms, does not belong 

 in the genus Protula. The uncini have the long terminal tooth, trun- 

 cated and notched. 



The Protis simplex Ehlers, 1887, has no operculum, but the collar 

 setae bring it into close relation to the genus Salmacina. The following 

 species from Bermuda also has some affinity to the genus Protis. 

 * From a mass of very much coiled and twisted eroded tubes partially 

 covered with sponges, ascidians, and bryozoans, an exceedingly 

 interesting deep crimson colored annelid with darker spots and mark- 

 ings was taken. The most perfect specimen is about 20 mm. long, 

 with between 60 and 70 segments, with 7 on the thorax, the fascicles 

 of setae in very oblique series. Branchial lobes wanting. Collai 

 apparently 4-lobed, reaching only to the 2d fascicle of setae; no later 

 or posterior free border on thorax. Collar setae with stout shaft or 

 manubrium with long, narrow, serrate, abruptly tapered end, bent and 

 somewhat enlarged at the base and coarsely serrate, spreading out, 

 resembling a fin. Other setae very long, very slender, with very 

 delicate deeply fringed blade with long lash-like end. Uncini small, 

 very numerous; on the abdomen the tori reaching nearly around the 

 body. They are somewhat triangular with few (5 or 6) curved pointed 

 teeth above an unusually large base, somewhat protruding beneath 

 the very large terminal tooth. Abdominal setae flaring, asymmetrical, 

 with serrate edge. The Filigrana Huxleyi Ehlers, 1887, from Tortugas, 

 in 19 fathoms belongs to this group. 



MEMBEANOPSIS sen. nov. 



Membranopsis inconspioua *p. nov. 



A small animal 6 mm. long is of special interest in the development 

 of the thoracic membrane. As the branchial lobes are wanting its 

 exact generic relation is indeterminable. The 9 thoracic segments 

 bring it in close relation to Salmacina, while the form of the uncini 

 and abdominal setae show affinity to Apomatus ; the development of 

 the thoracic membrane separates it from Salmacinopsis. 



It is of a brownish color in preservation, rounded, with but little 

 taper to the blunt posterior end. There are 9 thoracic and about 

 25 abdominal segments. The collar is of moderate depth, apparently 

 of four (4) lobes, two rolling rounded median ones and two small 

 lateral ones, which extend backward around the 3d fascicle of setae ; 

 from the 4th to the 8th fascicle, the free border is deeply incised on 

 the side of each forming separate deep narrow scollops; that of the 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



9th fascicle continues as a wide, free, unbroken border across the body 

 to the opposite fascicle; the fascicles forming a straight series. The 

 setae on the collar are badly injured; a few show simple tapered rather 

 stiff blades similar to those on the following segments; in the 7th to 

 9th fascicles, there are a few curved setae with short blades and broad, 

 deeply serrate ends. On the abdomen the setae are curved somewhat 

 in cresent shape rather narrow and abruptly tapered toward the tip. 

 Uncini similar to those of Protula and Apomatus. 



SUBPROTULA gen. nov. 



Branchial lobes jsmall, not spiral, the branchiae in a semicircle. No 

 operculum. Collar three-lobed (3). Thoracic membrane a free mar- 

 gin to the fifth (5) segment, no posterior border. Thoracic segments 

 seven (7). Setae similar. -'Jncini irregularly trapesiform with a 

 number of teeth, the last large and square cut. Type, the following- 

 species : 



Subprotula longiseta sp. nov. 



Nine good sized specimens (about 20 mm. long) taken from dead 

 coral from Castle Harbor, have short rachis-like branchial lobes, not 

 spiral, with the moderately long, rather stout branchiae extending 

 their entire length forming a kind of semicircle; the end of each 

 abruptly contracted above the long pinnae then expanding into a 

 conspicuous club-shaped tip, the inner surface covered with minute 

 papillae; on one or two these appear to have become greatly enlarged, 

 forming a closely crowded mass. On the sides of each rachis. which 

 number fifteen (15) in each lobe, there are similar rounded or pear- 

 shaped papillae resembling uncolored occelli, close together at the 

 base, becoming well separated distally. No operculum. Thoracic 

 membrane very much developed, forming a deep rolling three (3)-lobed 

 collar extending backward along the sides, gradually diminishing in 

 width from the very large angular lateral flaps to the fifth (5th) fascicle 

 of setae. There is no free posterior border. In front of the large 

 median lobe a triangular or tongue-shaped process protects the 

 mouth. There are seven (7) fascicles of setae on the thorax and six 

 (6) tori ; each of the latter situated on the posterior edge of a rectangu- 

 lar membrane successively increasing in size, often overlapping each 

 other. Setae numerous, all similar, very long, slender, with long capillary 

 ends, the inferior ones the broader and more curved; on the collar a 

 few capillary ones. Uncini with about sixteen (16) teeth on the 

 largest, the terminal one very large and truncated, not at all like that 

 of Protula. There are between fifty (50) and sixty (60) abdominal 




494 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ J Illy , 



segments; the setse three or four (3 or 4) in a fascicle rather stiff, very 

 long, regularly tapered from an angular base with conspicuously 

 serrate edge; along the caudal region replaced by long hair-like ones. 



As far as Schmarda's description and figures of Protula longiseta 

 from the coral reefs of Jamaica shows, this species agrees fairly well. 

 The Bermuda form, however, cannot be placed in the genus P. sygmo- 

 <branchus. in which Schmarda's species has been placed, as the type 

 (P. protensus Gm.) as given by Claparede, 1870, has small branchial 

 Jobes with numerous branchiae in a circle, seven (7) thoracic segments, 

 but with the collar entire and the uncini very distinctive, somewhat 

 resembling those of Protula. No genus is known that can include this 

 Bermuda form, therefore the new name Subprotula is proposed with 

 the specific name longiseta, avoiding multiplicity of names if it prove 

 to be the same as Schmarda's species. 



A fragment of a tube about 2.5 mm. in diameter is of especial interest 

 in having a tough, horn-colored, semitransparent, chitinous lining; 

 the calcareous covering is thick, its surface nearly smooth, without 

 markings of any kind, even lines of growth. The animal, about 20 mm. 

 in length, is destitute of an operculum, a very small protuberance on 

 outside of the base of one of the branchial lobes showing point of 

 attachment. The branchial lobes small, stem-like; the branchiae 

 (16 on each side) much curled and twisted in preservation are arranged 

 in a semicircle. Thoracic membrane well developed, forms a deep 

 rolling collar, apparently 3-lobed (mutilated), extends backward as a 

 free lateral border to the 5th fascicle of seta\; no posterior border. 

 Seven (7) fascicle of seta? and six (6) tori on thorax; the latter in 

 rseparate rectangular membranous areas successively increasing in 

 :*>ize. Setse numerous, very long and slender, none showing broadened 

 conspicuously serrate ends. Uncini much striated, approaching 

 Protula in form, but with coarser teeth (about 16 in largest), the last 

 moderately long and square-cut. 



The conspicuously developed chitinous lining of this tube is remark- 

 able. The character of the animal agree closely with S. longiseta, with 

 the exception of the small protuberance noted on the base of one of 

 the branchial lobes. This may possibly be an abnormality and not the 

 point of attachment of a lost operculum. 



"l assimilis (Mcintosh, as Placostegus) . 



This species is recorded by Mcintosh from off Bermuda, in 435 

 fathoms. 



The tube is glassy, ornamented wuth a dorsal, or median, and two 

 Ilateral ridges, which terminate at the aperture in tooth-like projections. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



The characteristic operculum ought to be readily recognized. It is 

 described, in the type, as concave, of a dull yellowish color with brown 

 rim; a second specimen has an additional upper part, like an inverted 

 cone. 



The peculiarities of the collar described as made up of a number of 

 unequal ribbon-like processes or lobes, are possibly due to injury. 

 The rectangular form of the thoracic uncini, with numerous teeth above 

 one long, sharp, terminal one, seems the only character showing any 

 affinity to the genus Placostegus (type, P. tridentatus) . The thoracic 

 setse are very slender and simple. The Placostegus incomptus Ehlers, 

 1887, from off Cuba, in 101 to 129 fathoms, has strong affinity to the 

 genus Plagostegopsis Saint-Joseph, 1894. 



Eucarphus serratus sp. now 



Branchial lobes not free, the branchiae arranged in a semicircle; 

 there are twelve about equal ones in each, with long delicate ends 

 and long pinnae; a rudimentary operculum opposite the fully developed 

 one, which has two chitinous cups one above the other, the lower with 

 numerous radii and deeply pointed margin, very unlike the shallow 

 broadly scalloped margin found in that of Eucarphus lunulifera 

 Claparede, 1870, the upper one edged with thirteen stout, rather long, 

 erect spines broadly rounded on the end, curved beneath on either side, 

 forming a small angular lateral point; no outer, inner, nor basal 

 processes or spinelets. Collar very deep and full. Seta? similar to 

 those found in Hydroides and Eupomatus, with stout manubrium 

 having two large tooth-like spines on exposed end at the base of the 

 very delicate, abruptly tapered terminal portion, not broadened into 

 a blade. Six fascicles of seta? and six tori on thorax. The setse with 

 long gracefully tapered ends; the uncini somewhat triangular in 

 outline, the base much prolonged and tapered beneath the teeth, which 

 number about seven, are of about equal size, rather long, pointed and 

 appressed, in front view appearing broad and delicately serrate in a 

 single series; on the abdomen becoming smaller and thicker with more 

 numerous sharper teeth, eight or nine in the largest, the last broader 

 than the others. Abdominal setse flaring, with coarsely serrate edge, 

 elongated on one side with a delicate (scarcely discernible) filamentose 

 end; needle-like along caudal region. 



Only one specimen in an irregular good sized tube roughened only 

 by unequal irregular lines of growth. 



This may prove to be the Eucarphus dirampha Morch , 1863, from 

 St. Thomas, W. I. 

 32 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



That is described as having from 13-16 spines on the operculum,, 

 which are figured as having bulbous bases not at all like the simple 

 taper of the Bermuda species. The tube is given as slightly tortuous, 

 loosely agglomerate, with unequal lines of growth; 3 mm. in diameter. 

 Another related species (E. benzoni Morch, 1863) is recorded from Bahia, 

 Brazil. This builds left-handed, solitary, very solid, obsoletely nodulose 

 spirorbiform tubes attached to Purpura and Dolium. 



Hydroides bispinosa sp. nov. 



Two specimens differ from typical Hydroides in having the edge of 

 the lower cup of the operculum, with broad, shallow scallops, not deep 

 narrow points; the upper cup has about 9 strongly curved, tapered 

 spines somewhat angular on the outer side with a single small pointed 

 process or spinelet on each side just below the angle and a long spike- 

 like spinule on inner base. Rudimentary operculum in opposite 

 lobe. Branchiae eight on each side; long, rather stout, with very long 

 terminal filament. Thoracic membrane but little (comparatively)' 

 developed, with moderately deep collar. Seta? in collar fascicle with 

 two very prominent striated spines at base of abruptly tapered ends ; 

 in the following six fascicles long tapered blades. Uncini noticeable 

 in being triangular, broad at base, with few, about equal, very sharply 

 pointed, much curved, well separated, teeth, 5 or 6 on those of thorax 

 and 3 or 4 on abdomen. Abdominal setae in fascicles of seven, flaring 

 without elongation, the edge coarsely dentate, one end tooth larger 

 than the others and curved in hook-shape; similar to the setae figured 

 by Marenzeller as Hydroides multispinosa ; additional long stiff hair- 

 like ones along caudal region. 



Tubes much roughened by irregular growth lines crossing two large 

 dorsal carinae, the shallow central area extending forward at the 

 aperture in a broadly rounded projection; attached in irregular flat 

 coils in masses or groups, often much eroded. 



Hydroides parvus (Treadwell 1901, as Eupomatus). 



Numerous rough tubes of good size, variously curved and often 

 twisted over each other, are attached their entire length to the exposed 

 surface of valves of Placuanimia rudis, the interior of the aperture of 

 Livona pica and other hosts found at Bermuda. 



They are rounded, of nearly uniform diameter, with two more or 

 less clearly defined dorsal carinae, with here and there a faintly indicated 

 median thread; no transverse markings other than irregular ones of 

 growth which roughen the entire surface. 



The species was recorded by Treadwell from the shores of Porto Rico 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



attached to Bryozoans. The Bermuda specimens are of larger size, 

 agreeing well with Treadwell's description, with the exception of the 

 form of the abdominal seta?. The long acicular ones described by him 

 occur only on the caudal region; those of the characteristic Hydroidcs 

 form with striated, flaring, conspicuously serrate ends are present on 

 the other abdominal segments. The characteristic basket-like oper- 

 culum readily distinguishes the species, in some instances two fully 

 developed ones occur. It is formed of two chitinous light yellow cups, 

 fitted one above the other, on a long, slender, rather stiff peduncle. 

 The lower is edged with 25 or 30 deep points and the upper has nine 

 strongly curved fang-like spines with three conspicuous outer processes 

 (two pointed lateral and one blunt, more or less elongated, median) 

 situated at the point of greatest curvature; a little above the middle; 

 at the inner base of each fang is a short, erect, blunt process or spinule; 

 in every instance these fangs have their points in contact forming a 

 very pretty basket -like end to the operculum. There is great varia- 

 bility in the size of the blunt median process, which is sometimes low 

 and broadly rounded and sometimes much elongated and truncated. 



The animals are long (50 mm.) slender rounded, the branchiae about 

 4 mm. The collar setse, characteristic of the group, are horn-colored 

 with stout shaft or manubrium with two, sometimes three, conspicuous 

 tooth-like spines at the base of long tapered ends ; other thoracic 

 setae long and narrow regularly tapered. Uncini much striated with 

 a few (7) strongly curved pointed teeth in profile but showing irregular 

 series when the rather broad exposed surface is in view. Abdominal 

 setse with flaring striated coarsely serrate ends; hair-like along caudal 

 region. 



Eupomatus elegantulus sp. nov. 



The species is readily identified by its large operculum (2^ mm. in 

 diameter). The lower cup edged with 30 or 40 deep narrow points, 

 the upper with 13 very long, very slender, tapered, regularly curved, 

 spreading, simple spines without outer, lateral, or inner spinelets 

 except a long slender much curved spinule at the inner base of each, 

 their points in contact forming a basket-like center. Entire length 

 of body about 20 mm. Branchial lobes simple, short, the branchiae 

 in a semicircle (16 or 18 on each). Thoracic membrane badly mutilated 

 but showing a well-developed collar and free lateral and posterior 

 border. Seven (7) fascicles of setae and six (6) tori in oblique series 

 on thorax. The collar setae with two (2) conspicuous spines at base 

 of moderately long tapered end ; other setae long, very slender with 

 capillary tips. Uncini triangular in outline, the base protruding 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juty; 



forming a narrow end beneath the six (6) coarse teeth, which suc- 

 cessively increase in size. 



Tubes unattached, yellowish, of good size, gradually tapered, 

 rounded, and somewhat contorted, the surface roughed by numerous 

 conspicuous irregular growth lines crossed on one side hy three well- 

 separated rather delicate longitudinal often lamellar-like lines. 



Three similar species have been recorded from the West Indian 

 fauna. Eupomatus sanetoe~crucis Morch, 1863 (as Eucarphus), from the 

 Island of St. Croix is described and figured as having a minute spinelet 

 on the outer (?) surface of each spine of the upper cup of the operculum 

 at about the middle, thus if correct (they usually occur on the inner 

 surface) representing a connecting link between typical Hydroides 

 with two or more spinelets and typical Eupomatus destitute of them. 

 Eupomatus spongicolus Benedict. 1886 (as Hydroides), from Gulf of 

 Mexico in sponges from 26 fathoms, has numerous (14-18) simple long 

 slender curved spines with long basal inner spinules on upper cup of 

 the operculum and about 65 narrow deep points on edge of lower one. 

 Eupomatus Floridanus nom. nov. for E. uncinatus Ehlers, 1887 (non 

 Philippi, 1844), from 7 fathoms off Cape Dear Rio, Florida, has 11 very 

 long, much curved spines with inner basal spinule on upper cup and 

 about 30 deep points on edge of lower one. This does not agree with 

 the operculum of E. uncinatus from the Mediterranean (a fact men- 

 tioned by Ehlers). From mass of 2 or 300 tubes in Yale Museum, a 

 number of dried animals were taken showing the opercula and collar 

 setae in good condition. There are 9 or 10 spines on the upper cup 

 which are stiff nearly straight, being curved only near the tip and so 

 abruptly as to appear angulated on the outer surface, the inner basal 

 spinule inconspicuous wart -like; they are very like the figure given 

 by St.-Joseph, 1906. On the American coast the Eupomatus dianthus 

 (Verrill) Bush as figured by Benedict, 1886 (as Hydroides), is a closely 

 related species. 

 Jomatostegus brachysoma Schmarda. 



One beautifully preserved animal has been received from the Island 

 of Dominica, W. I., from Mr. A. H. Verrill. Entire length 45 mm.; 

 operculum 15 mm. of which 5 mm. belongs to its homy end; thorax, 

 about 5 mm. 



The very large operculum arises abruptly without a peduncle from 

 the base of one of the branchial lobes. It is cornucopia shaped with 

 very oblique end and very conspicuous thin membranous side appen- 

 dages, gradually increasing in width from the base to the free rounded 

 end lobe. There are three semitransparent horn-colored somewhat 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499" 



saucer-shaped plates conspicuously serrate on edge and about equal in 

 size, the lowest closely affixed to the end of the operculum. From 

 this, a little to one side of center, a large rounded hollow column arises, 

 made up of four parts or sections successively decreasing slightly in 

 size, with concave sides and flaring top and bottom, each of which is 

 encircled by a series of elongated spines, longest above; at the base 

 of the lowest one no spines are developed. At the joining of the sec- 

 tions there are therefore two series of spines between which a large 

 saucer-shape plate rests; in this specimen, the third joint is destitute 

 of a plate and some of the spines at the apex have been torn away. 

 Branchial lobes elongated, free, slightly spiral, plume-like, the slender 

 tapered rachis, with a thick, broad or deep, striated, web-like membrane 

 on each side, is strongly curved at the end causing the sides to be 

 unequal. The moderately long, much curled, stout branchiae (about 

 50) arise on the outer side only. Collar conspicuous, entire, varying 

 in depth, a broad, shallow emargination on each side forming a com- 

 paratively narrow, deep, angular median marginal lobe having a 

 noticeable seam-like median depression; the large lateral flaps end 

 on a line with the first torus without forming any lateral nor posterior 

 free border. The thorax, however, conspicuously defined, the seven 

 fascicles of setse in very oblique series; the toii reaching across body 

 nearly in contact along the median line; each is situated in the pos- 

 terior edge of a separate overlapping membrane which forms a free, 

 broadly rounded, outer end with pointed fluke-like side lobes; only 

 on the first do both of them show, and on the sixth or last the posterior 

 one is elongated, extending across the body to the opposite side in a 

 scarcely discernible free border. Collar fascicle small, the superior 

 setse very slender, geniculate and roughened by minute hair-like 

 spines at base of narrow regularly tapered blade approaching the form 

 characteristic of the genus Spirobranchus; inferior setse capillary. 

 Other thoracic fascicles large with numerous rather stiff seta 3 ; the 

 shortest, capillary; median with darker rounded elongated blades 

 and short tips; the longest with short tapered ends. Uncini like 

 Spirobranchus with curved pointed teeth (8 in largest abdominal one) 

 above a more prominent truncated terminal tooth (not twisted). 

 Abdominal seta? comparatively small, slender, tapered, often scarcely- 

 discernible, just pricking through the integument. 



Pomatosteyus stellata (Abildgaard, 1789) was carefully described 

 by Ehlers, 1887. from a specimen from off Florida in 13 fathoms. It 

 has a similar one-lobed collar but smaller operculum and a more elon- 

 gated body of 140 segments. Benedict , 1886, also described and figured 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



the same species from several specimens from Jamaica and Curacao 

 and Treadwell recorded it from Porto Rico. The P. macrasoma 

 Schmarda, 1861, is distinguished by its 2-lobed collar (which possibly 

 may have been mutilated) and more elongated form with compara- 

 tively small operculum. The P. brachysoma is relatively short of 

 100 segments with a very large operculum plashed with chocolate 

 brown, the branchise and pinnae banded with the same color. 



Benedict, 1886, and Ehlers, 1887, record Spirobranchus giganteus 

 (Pallas) Morch, S. tricornis (Morch) Ehlers, S. pseudoincrassatus Bush, 

 1905 (for incrassatus Benedict, 1886, non Kroyer). and S. dendropoma 

 Morch, 1863, from off Florida and the West Indies. Other serpulids 

 recorded from this region and Bermuda are Crucigera Websteri Benedict, 

 1886, Hyalopomatus Langerhansi Ehlers, 1887 (which is not a true 

 Hyalopomatus), Cymospira (?) polycera Schmarda, 1861, Paravermilia 

 annnlata (Schmarda, 1861) Bush, 1907, not Yermilia annulata Ehlers, 

 1887 = Paravermilia Ehlersiana n. n., Paravermilia Bermudensis 

 Bush, 1905 and 1907, P. amblia Bush, 1907, P. intermedia Bush, 1907, 

 Pseudovermilia occidental i* (Mcintosh, 1885) Bush, 1907, P. pileum 

 Bush, 1907, Spirorbis formosus Bush, 1905, Spirorbis mutabilis Bush, 

 1905, and Rhodopsis pusillus Bush, 1905. 



Bibliography. 



ArGENER. H. — Bulletin, Museum Comparative Zoology, Vol. XLIII, 1906. 

 Benedict, J. E. — Proceedings, United States National Museum, Vol. IX, 1S8G. 

 Bush, K. J. — Harriman Alaska Expedition, Vol. XII, 1905. American Journal 



Science. Vol. XXIII, January and February, 1907. 

 Caulery, M. and Mesnil, F. — Bulletin scientif. de la France et de la Belgique, 



Vol. XXX, 1897. 

 Ehlers, E. — Memoirs, Museum Comparative Zoology, Vol. XV, 1887. 

 Marion F., and Bobretzky, N. — Annales des Science Naturelle, Vol. 6, 1875. 

 McIntosh, W. C— Challenger Voyage, Vol. XII, 1885. 

 Morch, A. L.— Naturhist. Tidsskrift, Vol. I, 1863. 

 Schmarda, L. K— Neue Wirbellose Thiere, Vol. II, 1861. 

 Treadwell, A. L— Bulletin, U. S. Fish Commission, Vol. II (for 1900) 1901. 



Explanation of Plate XXXVI. 



Fie. 1. — Paravermilia amblia Bush. Side view of operculum; a, abdominal 



seta; b, thoracic seta. 

 Fig. 2. — Pseudovermilia occidentalis (Mcintosh) Bush. Front and back views 



of operculum; a, collar seta; b, seta from 2d segment. 

 Fig. 3. — Spirorbis mendosus n. n. for S. cornu-arietis Marion and Bobretzki, 1875, 



non Philippi, 1844 + Caullery and Mesnil, 1897. Side view of calcareous 



plate of operculum. 1 



1 Figures 3, 4, and 6 are from specimens described by the author in 1905. 

 from Beirut, Syria, page 288. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



Fig. 4. — Spirorbis serratus sp. nov. Two calcareous plates of operculum; upper 



one tilted to show posterior basal serrations ; lower separate shield-shaped 



frontal plate. 

 Fig. 5. — Spirorbis formosus Bush. Side view of operculum with two complete 



calcareous cylinders. 

 Fig. 6. — Spirirbis nudus sp. nov. Side view of operculum. 

 Fig. 7. — Spirorbis mutabilis Bush. Side view of animal taken from tube and 



stained to show position of eggs (e), protozoans, etc., cover the operculum; 



«, back view of an operculum filled with eggs; b, front view of another 



operculum, the calcareous plate is dislodged; c, views of another operculum; 



d, back and side views of collar seta. 

 Fig. 8. — Paravermilia bermudensis Bush. Side view of operculum of type, the 



tip broken off; a, abdominal seta; b, edge of thoracic uncinus; c, collar 



seta. 

 Fig. 9. — Paravermilia intermedia Bush. Side view of operculum; a, abdominal 



seta; b, edge of thoracic uncinus; c, back view of seta from 2d segment. 



All the figures are camera-lucida drawings by the author. A No. 3 objective 

 was used for the opercula, with the exception of fig. 1, where an inch objective 

 was used. No. 7 objective was used for the setse. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



The land .shells listed below were collected by Dr. A. P. Brown 

 during a visit to the Canal Zone in April of this year. Twenty-two 

 species were taken, but this is probably not half of the fauna of the 

 Zone, since other interests left but little time for collecting snails, 

 and the condition — dense jungle with only small expostires of cal- 

 careous rock — made collecting rather slow work. 



Notes on a few species from other sources are appended. 



Prof, von Martens has reported 20 species of land shells from Panama, 

 on the authority of various authors. The following species from his 

 list are additional to those taken by Dr. Brown: 



Aperostoma giganteum. Drymaus panamensis. 



Helicina amcena. Subulinn octona. 



Euglandina sowerbyan . Leptinaria inter str iota . 



DrymcBUS bugabejisis. " MelanieUa" fimbriata. 

 Drymaus alter )tans. 



HELICID^}. 

 Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) otis orthorhinus Pils. Tabernillo. 



Several other races of P. otis, and P. uncigcra are found on the 

 Isthmus. See below. 



Tb.ysanopb.ora conspurcatella (Morel.). Las Cascades. 



The specimens are somewhat larger than the typical form from 

 Mexico. Some shells of practically typical T. conspurcatella are in 

 the collection of the Academy under the name Helix panamensis 

 Perez. So far as I can learn no description under this name has been 

 published. They are from the Morelet collection. 



Tbysanophora canalis Kls. Las Cascades. 



ACHATINID^. 

 Leptinaria lamellate concentrica Reeve. Tabernillo. 

 Leptinaria filocostata (Strebel) (?). Tabernillo ; Las Cascades. 

 Leptinaria sp. undet. Las Cascades. 

 Leptinaria panamensis Pils. Tabernillo. 

 Opeas beckianum (Pfr.). Tabernillo. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Opeas pumilum (Pi'r.). O. goodalli Mill, not Fe"r. Las Cascades. 



Opeas panamense Pils., collected at Panama by Prof. C. B. Adams,. 

 was probably taken near the city of that name, where Adams col- 

 lected marine mollusks extensively. 



BULIMULID^]. 

 Bulimulus unicolor (Sowb.). Las Cascades. 

 Drymaeus semimaculatus Pils. Tabernillo. 

 DrymaRUS near josephus Ang. Tabernillo. 



Some other species of Drymceus are known from the islands in the- 

 bay of Panama. 



Oxystyla princeps (Brod.). Taberoillo. 



Auris distorta panamensis Pils. Between Tabernillo and San Pablo. 



OLEACINID^. 

 Euglandina cumingi (Beck). Tabernillo. 

 Euglandina probably striata (Mull.) Tabernillo. Fragments. 

 Salasiella browni Pils. Tabernillo ; Las Cascades. 



SUCCINEIDffi. 

 Succinea recisa Morel. (?). Las Cascades. 

 Also reported by other authors. 



ZONITTD^3. 

 Guppya gundlachi (Pfr.). Tabernillo. 

 Guppya browni Pils. Between Tabernillo and San Pablo. 

 Ammoniceras n. sp. near guildingi Bid. Tabernillo. 



Imperfect shells only. 



PUPILLID^J. 

 Bifidaria servilis (Old.). 



Some specimens of this species from the Morelet collection are in 

 the museum of the Academy from Panama, collected by Paz, under 

 the name "P. pazensis Perez." It is probably Pupa pazi Hidalgo 

 Journ. de Conchyl., 1875, p. 129. Von Martens reports P. pettucida 

 in which he includes servilis, from Panama, 



HELICINID^J. 



Helicina funcki Pfr. Tabernillo. 

 Helicina lirata Pfr. Tabernillo, abundant. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF lAug., 



Notes on New or Imperfectly Known Species. 



Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) otis (Sol.). PL XXXVII, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Helix otis [Solander] in Skinner & Co.'s Catalogue of the Portland Museum, 

 1786, p. 38, lot No. 925, based solely on Favanne, La Conchvliologie, 

 pi. 63, fig. 11. 



Helix labyrinthus Chemnitz, Conchylien Cabinet, XI (1795), p. 271, pi. 208, 

 fig. 2048 (copied from Favanne). 



The typical form of this remarkable snail is figured. It is dis- 

 tinguished by the strongly recurved peripheral and axial ends of the 

 peristome and the spatulate shape of the aperture. Alt. 21, diam. 

 51 mm. 



Isthmus of Panama. No more exact locality is known, but the 

 form will probably be found in or near the Canal Zone. Several 

 more or less divergent races have been described from Panama and 

 Colombia, the status of which remains to be determined. A synopsis 

 of these forms follows. 



P. o. subplanata (Petit). 



Caracolla subplannta Petit de la Saussaie, Revue Zoologique, Aout, 1843, 

 p. 238 (Nouvelle Grenade) ; Magazin do Zoologie, 1843, Mollusques, pi. 68. 



Smaller than P. otis, alt. 14, diam. 40 mm., reddish brown. Aper- 

 ture as in otis, the peristome retracted at both ends. 



This Colombian form differs from typical P. otis by its diminished 

 size, but is probably not separable from the small Panamic form called 

 si pun cu lata. 



P. o. sipunculata ( Forbes). 



Helix labyrinthus variety sipunculata Forbes, P. Z. S., 1850 (March 26), p. 

 53, pi. ix, figs. 4a, 4b (Panama). 



Shell purple-brown, 35 mm. in diameter, decidedly smaller than 

 V. otis; aperture as in typical otis, the columellar and peripheral angles 

 of the peristome strongly recurved. 



This shell does not seem to differ very materially from the earlier 

 subplanata Petit. It is only provisionally admitted as a race. The 

 figure shows the umbilicus somewhat smaller, and the aperture not 

 exactly similar. It may, as Dr. Brown suggests to me, be a dwarfed 

 form of otis owing to unfavorable station. 



P. o. annulifera ('Pfr.' Reeve). 



Helix annulifera Pfeiffer, P. Z. S., 1851 (December 7, 1853), p. 260 (Panama) 

 Reeve, Conchologia Ieonica, Helix, pi. 100, fig. 555 (May, 1852). 



The shell is much smaller than P. otis, alt. 13, diam. 34 mm.; deep 

 chestnut colored with a broad white band at the acute keel. The 

 aperture is shaped as in P. otis; the peristome is retracted at both 



ends. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



This race differs from sipunculala only in color, which may or may 

 not be a constant racial character. 

 P. o. erecta (Mouss.). 



Helix erecta Mousson, nialak. Blatter, xxi, 1873, p. 3. Pfeiffer, Novit. 

 Conch., Ill, p. 116, pi. 127, figs. 1-3 (Bogota). 



Blackish-brown, identical with subplanata except for its smaller 

 size and greater elevation, alt. 13, diam. 30 mm. 



P. o. orthorhinus n subsp. PI XXXVII. fig*. 1, 2, 3. 4. 



The shell is dark brown, often blackish at the keel, and differs 

 from L. otis in having the inner end of the peristome less recurved into 

 the umbilical cavity, and the outer end much less deeply channelled, 

 scarcely or not recurved; the gutter above the keel and the upturned 

 flange of the latter are less emphatic. 



Alt. 19, diam. 42 nun.; 5 whorls. 



Types No. 101,308, A. N. S. P., from a small clearing between 

 Tabernillo and San Pablo, on the new line of the Panama R. R., 

 collected by Dr. Amos P. Brown, April, 1910. The same form is 

 in the collection of the Academy from Gorgona, also on the Panama 

 R. R. One of the specimens from Gorgona has been figured in the 

 Manual of Conchology, V, pi. 64, figs. 14-16. 



A specimen somewhat abnormally elevated measures alt. 23.5, 

 diam. 45 mm. 



In connection with the preceding it may be well to consider the 

 following South American species. 



Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) plicata (Born). 



Helix plicata Born, Testacea musei Ca-sarei Vindobonensis, 1780, p. 368 

 referring to Knorr, Vergniigen der Augen und des Gemiiths, 1771, pt. V, 

 pi. 26, fig. 5 (India occidentals ). 



Caracolla hydiana Lea, Obs. Genus Unio, ii, 1838, p. 98, pi. 23, fig. 73. 

 (Near Puerto Cabello [Venezuela].) 



This species is well distinguished from P. otis by its more open 

 aperture and smaller basal teeth, as pointed out in the Manual of 

 Conchology. Some specimens in the series before me agree closely 

 with the figure referred to by Porn, others with Lea's figure. It is 

 apparently an abundant snail around Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, found 

 also at Chorini and Caraccas, and one specimen received from Des- 

 hayes is labelled Carthagena, X. G. There is no trustworthy record 

 of plicata from Panama. I cannot agree with Prof, von Martens that 

 plicata and hydiana (hydeana Martens) are distinct species. A careful 

 stud}' of numerous specimens shows that they are identical. 



A very small race, alt. 11.5, diam. 31 mm., from Marmato, Colom- 

 bia, has been figured in the Manual of Conchology V, p. .164, pi. 63, 

 figs. 6. 7, 8. It may be called Pleurodonte plicata marmatensis. 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) uncigera (Petit). Fig. l. 



Caracolla uncigera Petit, Mag. de Zool., 1838, pi. 113. 



Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) tenaculum Dall, Smiths. Misc. Coll., Vol. 52, 

 part 3, p. 361, pi. 37, figs. 5, 6, 10, 11. 



This species is well distinguished by the hook within the basal lip, 

 projecting between two basal plicae, though really arising from the 

 inner part of the outer plica. Petit's very good figure of this struc- 

 ture is copied in my fig. 1. A whitish band revolves above, another 

 below the peripheral keel, which is dark. Diam. 27-30 mm. 



Isthmus of Panama (Pavagean, type of uncigera); near the Atrato 

 River, Sierra Darien (Heighway, type of tenaculum). 



Fig. 1. — P. uncigera (after Petit). 



Fig. 2. — P. u. chiriquensis. 



Pleurodonte (Labyrinthus) uncigera chiriquensis n. subsp. Fig. 2. 



Helix uncigera Pilsbrv, Manual of Conehology, V, p. 164, pi. 42, figs. 23, 25, 

 25, 26. Not of Petit. 



The shell resembles uncigera in shape and color, and in the form 

 of the aperture. There are two teeth within the basal lip, the inner 

 one small, tubercular, sometimes nearly obsolete; outer tooth entering 

 pliciform, double, consisting of an inner fold terminating in a hook 

 or vertical lamina, and an outer fold superposed upon the other, not 

 reaching so far forward. 



Alt. 12, diam. 27.5 mm. 

 " 12. " 28 

 " 12, " 30 



Chiriqui, Isthmus of Panama (McNeil exped.). Type No. 5612, 

 A. N. S. P. Also taken by Dr. W. Xewcomb on the Isthmus, exact 

 place not stated. 



In this form the hook does not stand free from the entering lamina, 

 as it does in uncigera. The lamina overrides the fold bearing the 

 hook, and does not continue to or upon the peristome. In several 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



507 



specimens the hook is not free but united by a thin lamina with the 

 lip. This is the form which I described and figured as uncigera in the 

 Manual of Conchology, Vol. V. 

 Thysanophora canalis n. sp. Fig. 3. 



The shell is umbilicate the width of umbilicus contained 4^ times 

 in the diameter of the shell, which is somewhat depressed with conic 

 spire and obtuse summit; thin: dull brown. Surface lusterless, 

 finely striate, bearing rather closely spaced retractive delicate cuti- 

 cular laminae, much more oblique than the growth-lines, usually in 

 large part lost or wholly wanting by wear. Whorls 4f, strongly 

 convex, separated by deep sutures, the last rounded peripherally and 

 beneath. Aperture much larger than the umbilicus, oblique, rotund- 

 lunar. Peristome simple, forming about three-fourths of a circle. 



Alt. 3.8, diam. 4.6 mm. 



Fig. 3. — Thysanophora canalis. 



Las Cascades, on the Panama Railroad, Canal Zone. Types No. 

 101,329, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, April, 1910. This 

 species differs from P. conspurcalella by its much more elevated spire 

 and smaller umbilicus. The same species is in the collection of the 

 Academy from Cariaca, Venezuela, collected by F. R. Cocking. These 

 specimens are of a pale yellowish color and slightly smaller size. 



Auris distorta panamensis n. *p. PI. XXXVII, Figs. 8, 9. 



This snail is closely related to A. d. bisuturalis Pils. from San Jose 

 de Cucuta, Colombia, with which it agrees in size and general fusiform 

 shape, in having a distinct narrow margin below the suture on the 

 last whorl, and in style of markings. The shell, in the freshest exam- 

 ples, is reddish with rather widely separated, longitudinal, protractive 

 dark streaks. It differs from A. d. bisuluralis by having the last 

 whorl more compressed and tapering basally, with several short 

 spiral furrows behind the lip, above the basal ridge; the aperture is 




508 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



narrower and distinctly retracted at the base, the outer lip, in profile, 

 curving backward there, while in bisuturalis it is nearly straight. 

 Length 41 , diam. 18.5, length aperture 22.5 mm. 



" 43.5, " 18 , " " 25 " whorls 5|. 



" 41.5, " 18 , "• •' 23.6 " " 5f. 



•' 42.5, " 18 , " " 23.3 " " 5J. 



Between Tabernillo and San Pablo. Types No. 101.314, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by Dr. A. P. Brown. 

 This is further northwest than any Auris has been found hitherto. 



Leptinaria panamensis n. sp. Fig. 4. 



The shell is narrowly perforate, turrite-conic, thin, corneous, trans- 

 lucent, glossy, and smooth except for very faint 

 growth-lines. Whorls 6£, moderately convex. Aper- 

 ture ovate, subvertical. its length contained 2f times 

 in that of the shell. Outer lip thin, arching forward 

 somewhat above the middle. Columellar margin 

 reflexed, tapering downward, armed below the middle 

 with a strong oblique lamella. 



Length 8, diam. 3.3, length of aperture 3 mm. 



Between San Pablo and Tabernillo, on the new- 

 line of the Panama Railroad. Types No. 101,320, 

 A. N. S. P. 



This species is closely related to L. mexicana Pfr., 

 but differs by its smooth surface. 



Fig. 4. — L. pan 

 amensis. 



Salasiella browni n. sp. Fig. 5. 



The shell is subcylindric, the upper third tapering, thin, pale 

 yellowish, polished, irregularly sculptured with very 

 strongly arcuate growth wrinkles. The spire tapers 

 slightly to the obtuse apex. Whorls oh, strongly 

 convex, joined by a deep suture. Aperture very 

 narrow in the upper half. Outer lip thin, arching 

 very strongly forward in the middle. Columella 

 slightly concave, truncate as usual. 



Length 10.2, diam. 4, length of aperture 6 mm. 



Las Cascades. Types No. 101,325, A. N. S. P. 

 Also taken between Tabernillo and San Pablo. 



The largest shell, a dead one from the last locality, 

 measures: Length 12, diam. 4.5, aperture 7.2 mm.; 



whorls 5^. Named for Dr. Amos Brown, who Fi 5 g browi 



collected the specimens. 



'■in . 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



509 



Guppya browni n. sp. Fig. 6. 



The shell is perforate, trochiform, distinctly angular at the pe- 

 riphery, thin, yellowish-corneous, glossy, 

 lightly marked with growth-lines. The 

 outlines of the spire are nearly straight. 

 Whorls 6^, moderately convex, the last 

 convex beneath, impressed around the 

 perforation, which is half covered by the 

 expanded columellar lip. Aperture some- 

 what lunate; peristome simple. 



Alt. 5.3, diam. 6.5 mm. 



Between Tabernillo and San Pablo, on 

 the new line of the Panama Railway. Type No. 101,319, A. N. S. P. 



This species is related to G. selenkai Pfr. but differs by being much 

 larger, less glossy, with the base less convex and the peripheral angle 

 far weaker. It is larger than any of the trochiform species known 

 to me. 



Fig. 6.— (?. browni. 



Explanation of Plate XXXVII. 



Figs. 1—4. — Pleurodonte otis orthorhinus n. subsp. 



Figs. 5-7. — Pleurodonte otis (Solander). Typical form. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Ailris sinuata panamensis n. subsp. 




olO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.., 



THE MOLLUSCA OF MANDEVILLE, JAMAICA, AND ITS ENVIRONS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND AMOS P. BROWN. 



The mollusks enumerated below were collected by one of us (Dr. 

 Brown) during two visits to Jamaica, in February-March and May 

 of this year; on the former occasion with assistance from Mr. Steward- 

 son Brown. The material has been studied by both authors. 



While the non-marine molluscan fauna of Jamaica might be con- 

 sidered well known, since most of the species have been described, 

 yet it is really most imperfectly known. Very few forms have been 

 examined anatomically; almost nothing has been observed of the 

 relations of the many specialized forms to their environments; a 

 large proportion of the species has not been figured, and many are 

 .scarcely recognizably described. Finally, our knowledge of the 

 distribution of species is extremely imperfect. The Mandeville list 

 may therefore prove useful, both as the most nearly complete fauna 

 published for any Jamaican locality, and because definite localities 

 4ire supplied for a large number of species hitherto known from no 

 more exact habitat than "Jamaica." 



The "Contributions to Conchology" of Professor C. B. Adams was 

 for the time a work of distinguished excellence; but it has a very 

 serious defect in the omission of localities. Almost all of the species 

 of Pfeiffer, Gray and Sowerby were also described as from Jamaica, 

 without nearer localization. A list published b}' C. P. Gloyne 1 sup- 

 plies localities for some species, but often only the Parish is mentioned. 

 Mr. J. B. Henderson. Jr., 2 has given a more extended list (248 species) 

 in which the localities are carefully noted. Out of 55 species listed 

 1 >y him from " Mandeville," 1 7 were not found in our material. 3 Adding 



1 Journal de Conchyliologie, XX, 1872, p. 26; XXIII, p. 115. 



- Nautilus, VIII. LS94, pp. 1, 19, 31. See also C. T. Simpson, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus. XVII, 1894, pp. 423-440, where several new forms are described. Other 

 new species of Urocoptida>, Achatinidw and Oleacinidcp from Mr. Henderson's 

 collection have been described in the Manual of Conchology. 



? These Mandeville species which we did not obtain are: Varicella ligata, 

 Sagda cookiana, S. epistylioides, S. arboreoides, Pleurodonte ja?naicensis cornea, 

 Cepolis subconica, Urocoptis inornata, Geomelania fords, Aperostoma subrugosum , 

 A. ru pisfontis, A. crassum, Tudora proximo, Colobostylus tectilabris, C. banksianus, 

 Hclicina jamaicensis. Probably Messrs. Henderson and Simpson listed all 

 -species collected within a radius of some miles as from Mandeville. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



511 



them to the 110 species enumerated below gives a total of 127 species 

 of land snails for Mandeville and its environs. To this number, 

 considerable additions may yet be made, chiefly among the very small 

 species. 



The tertiary limestones underly the region about Mandeville, exposed 

 in nearly every roadside cut and in many small borrow-pits along the 

 post-roads, and generally cropping out on every hill-top. On the 

 slopes of the steeper hills the limestone often stands up in bold cliffs, 

 especially on the higher hills of the northwest and west of the town, 



KendaJ- 



Fig. 1. — Sketch map of Mandeville and environs. 



in the ridges towards the western border of the Parish of Manchester. 

 The elevations run from about 1000 feet above sea level at Williams- 

 field to 2060 at Mandeville and 2700 on the ridge overlooking the 

 valley of St. Elizabeth Parish and Black River. The entire country 

 was evidently once covered with jungle or "bush" throughout, but 

 in the more cultivated parts the ground has been cleared of woods 

 except on the tops of the stony hills. 



There are no streams or other surface water in this part of Man- 

 33 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Chester except what is collected in the cattle pools and drinking water 

 cisterns, but the washing of the surface by torrential rains has had its 

 effect in shaping the topography. The rain water, however, soon 

 passes underground, and these underground waters have honeycombed 

 the limestones, forming numerous caves and pipes in the limestone 

 and resulting in sinks and "cockpits," so that the entire surface is 

 covered with cup-shaped valleys, more or less surrounded by hills, and 

 is very uneven, a few acres of level ground being rarely found. The 

 hills are generally steep, in many places limestone cliffs of 20 to 50 

 feet high rising abruptly on their slopes ; the hill-tops very frequently 

 show base rock in places. On this account the hill-tops have often been 

 left covered by jungle except where the wood was needed for fire-wood, 

 etc. ; but even these are often cleared, especially on the lower ground 

 towards William sfield and Porus, and to a less degree along the roads 

 towards Kendal, so that only fruit trees or occasional shade trees 

 remain. 



Along the William sfield road, at Wesley Mount Church, and on the 

 parish roads to the south in the direction of Porus to Sterridge's Place 

 and beyond, as well as along the Newport road running out of Mande- 

 ville to the south, most of the hills have been cleared of trees and 

 large patches of woods are not common, but a few bits of the original 

 forest remain. Such are the woods at Benin ore and at the King 

 Edward Hotel and the woods opposite Cedar Hill. The species ob- 

 tained at Wesley Mount Church were from the roadside on the lime- 

 stone sand and rock and at the base of the limestone walls. These 

 limestone walls are a feature of the region; they line the roads every- 

 where. They are built from the stone gathered in the adjoining field, 

 without plaster, and as the limestone weathers soon become the home 

 of numerous species of snails. Much of the roadside collecting is 

 from the walls, especially after a rain, when the animals crawl out on 

 the surface of the walls and may be gathered in quantities. At 

 Sturridge's the country has been completely denuded of trees and the 

 small collection made there came entirely from the walls. At Cedar 

 Hill there are no trees, the collection was taken from a low limestone 

 cut about ten feet high along the roadside. The Bloomfield colony 

 lives on a similar cut. and a steep hillside rising above it, where some 

 trees shade the road. These conditions continue for about one-third 

 of a mile. Garrett's woods is a hill top covered with almost untouched 

 virgin forest, but is only some five or six acres in extent. The speci- 

 mens from the Lower Santa Cruz road are from small roadside cuts, 

 some in limestone and some in the red residual clay from its weathering, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



with occasional collections from the damp shady borrow pit holes and 

 caves along the road. Many specimens were gathered from the stone 

 walls along this road. There are not many places beyond Garrett's 

 woods along this road "2 to 4 miles from Mandeville" where the 

 woods touch the road, but a few were explored, generally caves and 

 borrow pits; the ground rises in this direction to perhaps 2500 feet 

 above sea level at four miles from Mandeville. 



To the west and northwest of Mandeville there is more of the original 

 forest remaining uncleared, and at Somerset there is considerably 

 more forest than cleared land. The ridge near Lincoln, the most 

 western point explored in this region, rises to some 2,700 feet above 

 sea level, and lies to the north of the road. It overlooks the valley 

 of the Black River and St. Elizabeth Parish, and from it may be seen 

 the Santa Cruz mountains in the distance. The hill-top is rocky 

 with the honeycombed limestone in place, and rising in many chim- 

 neys and spires, forming a very favorable habitat for the species 

 found, but the woods has been somewhat disturbed by cutting of 

 firewood, though evidently never cleared. Out the Kendal road, to 

 the north of Mandeville, the ground is thoroughly cultivated and again 

 few patches of original forest come down to the road. The specimens 

 were mostly obtained from stone walls and low roadside cuts in the 

 limestone down to about 1,500 feet above sea level. In a few places 

 the forest touched the road and collections were made along the cuts 

 at these places, but the woods were not explored. 



The colony on the Somerset road, near the 2 mile post from Mande- 

 ville (about three miles from the town), was a patch of woods and a 

 small quarry or borrow pit, on the north slope of a hill overlooking 

 the valley of Williamsfield and Kenclal, and was at about the elevation 

 of Mandeville. From this point onward the parish road to Somerset 

 is shaded by the trees of the portions of the original forest that are 

 here quite extensive. The hills are more abrupt and the cliffs rise 

 in many places 50 to 100 feet or more. At Somerset, about six miles 

 from Mandeville, the woods are so nearly continuous that there is 

 no bar to the free migration of the species from one to another, but 

 still it is evident that there are a number of distinct colonies. Col- 

 lections were made from the roadside cuts and walls, in the stony 

 pastures and woods, from the cliffs and from a dissected cave and a 

 sink hole. The woods and cliffs were principally explored, and under 

 stones and in rock piles many specimens were taken alive. The 

 limestone in places wears into cylindrial more or less vertical holes 

 of all sizes up to ten feet in diameter, and in these many dead shells 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



are found. At the bottom of a fissure in the limestone or under a 

 cliff at the base is generally found a grave-yard of these shells, often 

 several bushels in the space of a few feet. Fresh shells are more 

 uncommon. As the woods are here all connected more or less, no 

 attempt was made to keep the colonies separate, but from a study of 

 these dead shells it would probably be easy to distinguish a number. 

 About twenty different hills were explored from the base to the top, 

 besides the caves and sink noted above, and many specimens were 

 taken from small exposures and stone piles in the cleared ground. 

 The elevation of the road at Somerset is about 2,200 feet above sea 

 level, and the hills rise for 200 or 300 feet more in some cases. 



HELICIDiE. 

 Cepolis (Dialeuca) nemoraloides (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods opp. Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road, about 3 miles 

 southwest of Mandeville. 



Cepolis (Dialeuca) conspersula (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset. 



Cepolis (Hemitrochus) graminicola(C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore, Mandeville ; roadsides about 3 miles north and east of 

 Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Santa Cruz road, common all along the 

 road; Somerset road; Somerset. 

 Pleurodonte bainbridgei (Pfr.). 



Cedar Hill, woods near King Edward's Hotel, Garrett's woods, 

 ridge near Lincoln, and at Somerset. The pale variety pretiosa was 

 not found. 

 Pleurodonte acuta goniasmos ('A. D. Brown' Pils). 



Kendal road, 3-3^ miles northwest of Mandeville; near Bloomfield; 

 woods at Benmore Hotel and King Edward's Hotel, Mandeville; 

 Cedar Hill ; Garrett's woods ; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles out ; Somerset 

 road, 2 miles out; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 



The form from Somerset is rather large, resembling figures 60, 62, 

 63, 64 of plate 26, Manual of Conchology, Y, though neither of those 

 figures is wholly like the prevalent type. 4 



The form from other localities mentioned is smaller and higher. 

 It has not been illustrated, though abundant and well known, but 

 plate 26, fig. 59 of the Manual, Vol. V, somewhat resembles it. Helix 



4 Figures 59, 63, 64 of plate 26 of the Manual, Vol V, do not represent P. 

 nobilis C. B. Ad., which Pilsbry had not correctly identified at the time that 

 volume was written. Figures 5, 59, 60, 62, 63, 64 of that plate are all forms of 

 goniasmos, of which nannodonta A. D. B. is merely a form. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



abnormis Pfr. was apparently based on a pathologic individual of 

 this small race. The forms of P. acuta from this region will be con- 

 sidered in a later paper by one of us. 



Pleurodonte acuta acuta (of which lamarckii Fer. and acutissima Lam. 

 are absolute synonyms) is found near the coast, at Swift River, and in 

 a less typical form around to Bowden. 



Pleurodonte sinuata (Mailer). 



Kendal road, 3^ miles north of, and Benmore and Bloomfield in 

 Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel and opposite Cedar Hill, 

 Garrett's woods, Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; 

 ridge near Lincoln ; Somerset. Found everywhere, in some abundance, 

 living under stones and leaves, in the woods. 



Pleurodonte anomala (Pfr.). 



Found with P. sinuata, probably everywhere, but not taken at 

 Bloomfield or Cedar Hill woods. 



Pleurodonte picturata (C. B. Ad.). 



Kendal road, about oh miles northwest of Mandeville. Only three 

 bleached specimens of the small form, diam. 22 mm. 



Pleurodonte cara (C. B. Ad.). 

 Somerset. 



Pleurodonte peracutissima (Q. B. Ad.) 



Bloomfield and Benmore, Mandeville; wood near King Edward's 

 Hotel; Kendal road about 2 miles north of Mandeville, in stone walls; 

 woods opposite Cedar Hill; Garrett's woods, Santa Cruz road, 2-4 

 miles southwest of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset road; 

 Somerset, abundant. 



Pleurodonte (Dendrocochlis 6 ) aspera (Fe"r.). 



Found at all the localities visited; very abundant everywhere 

 even in the town. Arboreal. 



Pleurodonte (Eurycratera) jamaicensis (Gmel.). 



Found at all the localities, but larger and more abundant westward 

 of Mandeville, towards Somerset and Lincoln. Terrestrial, living in 

 holes in the rocks. 



Zaphysema macmurrayi (C. B. Ad.). 



Bloomfield, Mandeville; Garrett's woods; ridge near Lincoln; 

 Somerset. 



5 Dendrocochlis n. subg. for aspera and cognata. the former type of the subgenus 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Zaphysema tunicata (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods opposite Cedar Hill, near Mandeville; Kendal road; ridge 

 near Lincoln; Somerset. 



This is Helix tumida Pfr. not Gmelin. 

 Zaphysema tenerrima (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods opposite Cedar Hill; Somerset. 



Proserpinula margaritella n. sp. 



Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield. 



Proserpinula infortunata (Bland). 



Helix infortunata Bid., Annals and Lvc. Xat. Hist, of N. Y., VI, 1S54, 

 p. 78; 1855, p. 149. 



Woods opposite Cedar Hill, and at Kino- Edward's Hotel; Somerset. 



Bland in 1854 transferred this species from Proserpina to Helix 



on the ground that in it the internal partitions are not absorbed, as 



they are in the Proserpinidce. In 1855 he 

 stated, on the authority of the Hon. Edward 

 Chitty, that the animal "is the same as of 

 Helix." Albers (Die Heliceen, 1860, p. 77) 

 instituted the new group Proserpinula which he 



Fig. 2. Central and ranks as a subgenus of Sagda, placing in it the 



lateral teeth of P. S p ec [ es discoidea C. B. Ad. and opalina C. B. Ad. 



(= infortunata Bid.). Tryon in Vol. II of the 

 Manual of Conchology, p. 201, considers Proserpinula a section of 

 Zonites. 



The radula of a decayed specimen we have examined was imperfect, 

 only the central and lateral teeth being preserved. These are of the 

 type found in Thysanophora, Sagda and Zaphysema. The central has 

 a short, wide basal-plate, the mesocone projecting well beyond it, side 

 cusps well developed. The laterals (at least 11 on each side) are 

 similar but asymmetrical by suppression of the entocone (Fig. 2). 

 P. infortunata is oviparous, the egg-capsules rather large, with calca- 

 reous shell. 

 Thysanophora turbiniformis (Pfr.). 



Sterridge's place, 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; Lower Santa 

 Cruz road; Somerset. 



Thysanophora subpyramidalis (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods opposite Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road; ridge near 

 Lincoln, Somerset. 



Thysanophora depressa (C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Lower Santa Cruz road; Som- 

 erset road. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Thysanophora boothiana (Pfr.) ?. 



Kendal road, 1 mile north of Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Sterridge's 

 place; Lower Santa Cruz road; Somerset road; Somerset. The 

 identity of this shell with the Cuban T. boothiana is doubtful, but it 

 is apparently what Adams so identified. 



Thysanophora anthoniana (C. B. Ad.). 

 Somerset. 



Thysanophora epistyliulum (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods at Benmore, Mandeville; woods opposite Cedar Hill; Somer- 

 set. 

 Thysanophora inconspicua(C. B. Ad.). 



Near Mandeville. 



Thysanophora diminuta (C. B. Ad.). 



Near Mandeville ; ridge near Lincoln. 

 Thysanophora dioscoricola (C. B. Ad.). 



Near Mandeville. 

 Sagda jayana (C. B. Ad.). 



Kendal road, 3^ miles north of Mandeville. Benmore and Bloom- 

 field, Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel; woods opposite 

 Cedar Hill; Garrett's woods; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest 

 of Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 



The young shells at a certain stage are perforate. The two internal 

 lamellae were found constant in a large number opened. It is an 

 extremely abundant species. 



Sagda grandis n. sp. 



Somerset. 



Sagda connectens (C. B. Ad.). 

 Somerset. 



Sagda alveare (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset and along roadsides near Mandeville. 

 Sagda foremaniana (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset; ridge near Lincoln. 



Sagda simplex n. sp. 

 Somerset. 



Sagda hollandi (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



BULIMULID^J. 

 Drymaeus immaculatus (C. B. Ad.). 



Garrett's -woods; Somerset. 



Oxystyla undata ^Brug.). 



Benmore, Mandeville, from trees in the garden, two large specimens, 

 probably imported from Trinidad. It is not the well-known Jamaican 

 form of Oxystyla. 



ACHATINIDiE. 

 Opeas miora (Orb.). 



Wesley Mount Church near Williamsfield ; Benmore, Mandeville. 



Subulina octona (Brug.). 



Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill. 

 Leptinaria lamellata (P. and M.). 

 Benmore, Mandeville. 



Leptinaria striosa abdita (Poey). 



Benmore, Mandeville; Sterridge's place; Lower Santa Cruz road; 

 Somerset road, 2 miles from Mandeville; Somerset. 



Leptinaria robertsi Pils. 



Cedar Hill; near Mandeville. No exact locality was hitherto 

 known. 



UROCOPTIDJE. 

 Urocoptis ambigua (C. B. Ad.). 



Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield; Kendal road, 3 miles 

 north of Mandeville; Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's Hotel, 

 woods opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods, Lower Santa Cruz road, 

 near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. Abundant through- 

 out the region, on stone walls and stone piles in open woods, etc. 

 TJrocoptis rosea (Pfr.). 



Benmore, Mandeville. 



Bracbypodella gracilis (Wood). 



Abundant around Mandeville, north and west, on walls along the 

 roadsides; Kendal road, 3^ miles north of Mandeville; ridge near 

 Lincoln; Somerset, on cliffs. 

 Spirostemma dunkeri (Pfr.). 



Ridge near Lincoln, on rocks. 

 Spirostemma tenera (C. B. Ad.). 



Near Mandeville. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Spirostemma mandevillensis n. sp. 



Somerset road, 2 miles from Mandeville. 

 Anoma splendens ('Mke.' Pfr.). 



Bloomfield, Mandeville; Somerset. 



Anoma splendens citrina (C. B. Ad.). 



Williamsfield road, 2 miles south of William sfield; Garrett's woods; 

 near Mandeville; Somerset road; Somerset. 



Anoma alboanfractus paivana (Pfr.). 



Somerset. 

 Microceramus gossei (Pfr.). 



Wesley Mount Church, 1 mile south of Williamsfield; Benmore, 

 Mandeville; Sterridge's place, 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; 

 Santa Cruz road; Somerset. Everywhere abundant along roadsides 

 and walls. 



OLEACINIDiE. 

 Varicella philippiana elegans (C. B. Ad.). 



Garrett's woods, near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 



Varicella venusta (Pfr.). 



Somerset. 



Varicella procera (C. B. Ad.). 



Ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 

 Varicella mandevillensis Pils. 



Somerset road, 2 miles northwest of Mandeville; Sterridge's place, 

 about 3 miles southeast of Mandeville ; also from roadsides north and 

 east of Mandeville. 

 Varicella blandiana (C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore, Mandeville; woods at King Edward's Hotel; Santa Cruz 

 road, about 3 miles southwest of Mandeville; Somerset. 

 Varicella proxima (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods opposite Cedar Hill. 

 Varicella dissimilis Pils. 



Somerset. 



Varicella near clappi Pils. 



Bloomfield, Mandeville. A single imperfect specimen. 



Varicella cochlidinm Pils. 



Wesley Mount Church, near Williamsfield, and along the road 

 toward Mandeville. 

 Varicella rapax n. sp. 



Somerset. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.. 



Varicella similaris sloaneana Pils, 



Kendal road, 3 miles north of Mandeville. 



Spiraxis mirabilis C. B. Ad. 



Somerset. 

 Spiraxis procerus (C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore, Mandeville. 



Spiraxis parallelus Pils. 



Somerset; woods at King Edward's Hotel, near Mandeville. 



Spiraxis laeviusculus C. B. Ad. 



Near Mandeville. 

 Spiraxis perplexus C. B. Ad. 



Near Mandeville; Somerset. 

 Spiraxis terebella C. B. Ad. 



Near Mandeville. 

 Pseudosubulina problematica Pils. 



Near Mandeville. 



ZONITID^. 



Guppya gundlachi (Pi'r.). 



Near Mandeville. The generic synonyms are as follows: 



Guppya Morch, Joum. de Conchyl, XV, 1867, p. 256, for Conulus vaccus 



[vacans] Guppv. 

 Habroconus Fischer et Crosse, Miss. Sci. Mex., Moll. (1878), I, pp. 154, 171. 



Type Helix selenkai Pfr. 

 Ernstia Jousseaume, Mem. Soc. Zool. France, II, 1889, p. 250, for Ernstia 



ernsti Jouss. 



LIMACID^E. 

 Agriolimax sp. undet. 



A single shell not unlike A. agrestis was picked out of dirt collected 



near Mandeville. 



STJCCINEIDiE. 



Succinea latior C. B. Ad. 



Kendal road 3 miles from Mandeville; Wesley Mount Church; 



Benmore, Mandeville; Cedar Hill; Sterridge's place; Lower Santa 



Cruz road; Somerset. It is found sparsely almost everywhere in 



the grass. 



PUPILLID^J. 



Bifidaria pellucida (Pfr.). 



Near Mandeville. 



Bifidaria servilis (Gld.). 



Garrett's woods and elsewhere near Mandeville. A form with the 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



teeth weak, the upper palatal plica very minute, basal plica absent 

 or excessively weak. 



Bifidaria rhoadsi Pils. 



Near Mandeville. New to Jamaica. The specimens are smaller 

 than the types from Miami, Florida, measuring, length 1.5, diam. 

 .85 mm. 



Vertigo (Bothriopupa) tenuidens C. B. Ad. 



Around Mandeville and at Somerset. This species differs from 

 V. variolosa of Florida by its rather more robust contour and strong 

 upper palatal plica. Probably Bothriopupa will be removed from 

 Vertigo on account of its long, entering parietal lamella; yet it does not 

 seem to belong to Bifidaria. 



VERONICELLIDiE. 



A species of Veronicella about 25 or 30 mm. long was seen under 

 stones, but none were collected. 



TRUNCATELLID^3. 

 Geomelania minor C. B. Ad. 



Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield; Benmore, Mandeville; 

 Somerset road and Somerset. 

 Geomelania gracilis (C. B. Ad.). 



Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield; Bloomfield and Ben- 

 more, Mandeville; Somerset. 

 Geomelania elegans C. B. Ad. 



Near Mandeville. 

 Geomelania (Scalatella) pygmaea (C. B. Ad.). 



Neighborhood of Mandeville. 

 Geomelania (Scalatella) microglypta n. sp. 



Near Mandeville. 



CYCLOPHORIDiE. 

 Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) jamaicense (Sowerby). 



Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's Flotel, woods opposite Cedar 

 Hill; Garrett's woods; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of 

 Mandeville; two miles out the Somerset road; ridge near Lincoln; 

 Somerset. Found everywhere. 

 Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) varians (C. B. Ad.). 



King Edward's Hotel, woods opposite Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods, 

 Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles west of Mandeville; 2 miles out the Som- 

 erset road; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



A single depressed, more widely umbilicate Ptychocochlis was found 

 on the ridge near Lincoln. It probably represents another species. 



ERICIIDJB (CYCLOSTOMATIDiE;). 



The Jamaican Cyclostomas differ from Ericia clcgans of Europe by 

 the form of the muzzle, which is deeply bifid at the end, not flattened 

 and disk-like clistally, as Fischer figures that of E. elegans. In creeping 

 the muzzle takes no part, and is not applied to the ground except occa- 

 sionally for the purpose of feeling. The foot is divided lengthwise by a 

 median sulcus, only the two outer edges being in contact with the earth 

 in crawling, which is effected by the passage of high narrow folds or 

 waves from the tail forward alternately on the two sides, only one at 

 a time on a side. The wave lifts free from the support, as shown in 

 fig. 3, so that there is no sliding motion of the sole against the ground. 

 Viewed from in front or behind the snail has an absurd appearance 

 of striding along on stumpy legs. These observations were made on 

 Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris (Ad.) and Tudora arrnata (Ad.) 5 . 



<Lr 





Fig. 3. — Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris (Ad.). Fig. 4. — Head of same, from above. 



Colobostylus jayanus (C. B. Ad.). 



Roadside north of Alandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 

 Colobostylus jayanus rufilabris C. B. Ad. Figs. 3, 4. 



Kendal road, 2 miles north of Mandeville, on stone walls; Benmore, 

 Mandeville ; woods at King^Edward's Hotel; Somerset road, 2 miles 

 northwest of Mandeville. 



5 It may be of interest in this connection to quote Dr. Jousseaume's account 

 of the walking of Ericia elegans. The foot is divided by a median line or raphe. 

 "Pour avancer, Panimal glisse en avant l'une des moities artificielles de son 

 pied et lorsqu'elle a depasse Pautre du quart, plus au moins, de son longueur, 

 elle s'arrete, pendant que l'autre moitie sort de son immobility et s'avance a 

 son tour, depasse sa congenere que se remet alors en mouvement. Cette progres- 

 sion alternative se fait sans interruption ; elle est continue comme dans les 

 autres modes. Qu'on suppose un homme, les deux pieds dans un sac, avancant 

 en glissant le pied droit, puis le pied gauche et ainsi de suite successivement 

 et l'on aura une idee exacte de la progression d'un Cyclostome" (Bull. Soc. 

 Zool. France, Vol. 34, 1909, p. 113). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Lives in rather open places, as in the crevices of stone walls, and in 

 the edges of woods. 



The foot is bluish-gray, tentacles, rostrum and eyes black. 



Colobostylus banksianus (Sowb.). 



Somerset road, 2 miles west of Mandeville; Somerset. 



Annularia fimbriatula (Sowb.). 



Bloomfield and Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's woods, 

 woods opposite Cedar Hill and Garrett's woods near Mandeville; 

 Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles from Mandeville. 



The living snail is very handsome. The foot is flesh-pink, paler in 

 front, shading to bright red behind in the region of the oper- 

 culum; the whole necked with opaque white; dorsal surface (neck) 

 and front edge almost white. The tentacles are deep carmine, 

 the rostrum grayish-fleshy with black spots and flecks, closer on the 

 sides. 



Adamsiella variabilis (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset. 

 Adamsiella ignilabris (C. B. Ad). 



Near Mandeville; Somerset; ridge near Lincoln. 

 Tudora fecunda (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset. 

 Chondropoma mordax (C. B. Ad.). 



Roadsides near Mandeville. 



Lives in the woods. It is very common near Mandeville but was 

 not 'seen around Somerset. 



A. 



Rhytidopoma fraterminor n. sp. 



Wesley Mount Church, 1 mile south of Williamsfield. 



HELICINID^]. 

 Helicina neritella Lara. 



Roadsides about 3 miles northeast of Mandeville; woods opposite 

 Cedar Hill and Santa Cruz road near Mandeville; Somerset. Abun- 

 dant, living in the open. 



Helicina jamaicensis Sowb. 



Bloomfield, Santa Cruz road, and Somerset road, near Mandeville; 

 Somerset. Abundant. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Stoastoma pisum (C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; 

 \ if //^\^n>>* Garrett's woods, crawling on stones; Lower 



Santa Cruz road, 3 miles from Mandeville ; 

 The dentition of S. pisum (fig. 5) confirms 

 the position of this genus in the Helicinidce. 

 The marginal teeth are simply hook-shaped 

 Fig 5—5 visum. an ^ vei T numerous. The outer tooth of the 



middle field has no cusp. Other characters 

 are sufficiently shown by the figure. 



Stoastoma gouldianum C. B. Ad. 

 Near Mandeville. 



Stoastoma (Fadyenia) grayanum (Chitty). 

 Near Mandeville. 



Stoastoma (Petiti ) cumingianum (C. B. Ad.). 



Woods a\ King Edward's Hotel, 1 mile from Mandeville; Garrett's 

 woods; Somerset. 

 Stoastoma (Petitia) fortuneanum (Chitty). 



Near Mandeville. 



Stoastoma (Metcalfia) chittyanum C. B. Ad. 



Near Mandeville. 



Alcadia major Gray. 



Somerset, very abundant. 

 Alcadia palliata (C. B. Ad.). 



Benmore, Mandeville; roadsides north and east of Mandeville; 

 2 or 3 miles out; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; 

 Somerset road, 2 miles out ; also at Somerset, very abundant. 

 Alcadia albolabris (C. B. Ad.). 



Roadsides, 3 miles north of Mandeville, towards Williamsfield ; 

 Cedar Hill, 1 mile south of Mandeville; Somerset. Not common. 

 Alcadia hollandi (C B. Ad ). 



Garrett's woods near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset 

 road, 2 miles west of Mandeville; Somerset. Abundant. 

 Alcadia pusilla (C. B. Ad.). 



Somerset road, 2 miles out from Mandeville; Somerset. 



Eutrochatella pulchella (Gray). 



Williamsfield road about 3 miles from Mandeville; woods at King 

 Edward's Hotel; woods opposite Cedar Hill, and Garrett's woods, 

 near Mandeville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. Found crawling 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



on rocks in the woods, not found copiously, but generally distributed 

 around Mandeville. 



Eutrochatella pulchella is transparent whitish, the rostrum and 

 sides of foot maculated and dotted with black, tentacles clear whitish, 

 eyes at their outer bases. It glides with the distal disk of the short 

 muzzle in contact with the ground. When travelling on a dry table 

 it sometimes raised the forward part of the foot. 



The name Trochatella being preoccupied by Lesson, Fischer in 1885 

 proposed to substitute Eutrochatella, type T. 'pulchella. 



The Cuban group of large species has been called Hapata by Wagner 

 in his monograph in the Conchylien Cabinet now appearing, but it 

 should bear the name Viana (type Helicina regina Morelet), the refer- 

 ences being as follows : 



Viana H. and A. Adams, Genera of Recent Mollusca II, p. 305, 

 March 1856, for regina and sagra. 



Hapata Gray, Annals and Magazine of Natural History (2 Ser.), 

 XVIII, November 1856, p. 414. Monotype Helicina regina Morel. 



Rhynchocheila Shuttleworth, Notitice M alacologicce II, 1878, p. 15. 

 Monotype H. regina Morel. 



Lucidella aureola (Fdr.). 



Mt. Wesley Church near Williamfield ; Bloomfield and other places 

 within a mile of Mandeville; Santa Cruz road; Somerset, on shady 

 stone walls. 



Lucidella undulata Pfr. 



Roadsides a mile north of Mandeville; Benmore and Bloomfield, 

 Mandeville; Sterridge's place, about 3 miles southeast of Mandeville; 

 Cedar Hill; Santa Cruz road, 2-4 miles southwest of Mandeville; 

 ridge near Lincoln; Somerset road 2 miles west of Mandeville; Som- 

 erset. 



Very variable in sculpture, often found in mossy places on stone 

 walls; larger in shaded places. 

 Lucidella adamsiana Pfr. 



Benmore and Bloomfield, Mandeville; King Edward's Hotel, and 

 Somerset road, near Mandeville; Somerset. 



Lucidella lineata (C. B. Ad.) (L. nana Pfr.). 



Benmore and King Edward's Hotel, Mandeville. 



PROSERPINIDiE. 

 Proserpina nitida Gray. 



Benmore, Mandeville; King Edward's woods, woods opposite 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Cedar Hill, Garrett's woods and Lower Santa Cruz road, near Mande- 

 ville; ridge near Lincoln; Somerset. 



Descriptions of New Species. 

 Zaphysema buddiana avus n. subsp. 



The shell has the sub-globular, somewhat depressed shape of Z. 

 buddiana, but is very much larger with about the same number of 

 whorls. The spire is low and very obtuse. The surface, where 

 unworn, shows delicate and rather close punctation, as in the typical 

 form. 



Alt. 24, diam. 30^ mm. ; whorls 4£. 

 " 25, " 30 " " 4£. 



Westmoreland. Types No. 795, A. N. S. P., collected by W. J. 

 Holland, and received with the A. D. Brown collection. 



Proserpinula margaritella i»- sp. Fig. 6. 



The shell is subdiscoidal, biconvex; thin, polished, very faintly 

 marked with minute growth-lines. Spire low, convex. Whorls 4, 



Fig. 6. — Proserpinula margaritella. 



moderately convex, joined by a distinctly impressed suture, the last 

 rounded peripherally, the base depressed, deeply sunken at the axis, 

 though there is no true umbilicus. The aperture is slightly oblique, 

 of a broad, depressed lunate shape. Peristome simple, the outer lip 

 evenly arcuate; basal margin straightened, columellar margin veiy 

 short and arcuate; not thickened. Central callus very small and 

 extremely thin. There is no perceptible internal callus and no teeth 

 or lamellae. Alt. 1.75, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Wesley Mount Church, one mile south of Williamsfield. Types 

 No. 101,430, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910. Other 

 specimens were taken in the neighborhood of Mandeville, exact 

 locality not noted. 



This species is related to P. discoidea (C. B. Ad.), but it differs by 

 the comparatively wider spire and much narrower last whorl (as seen 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



in a dorsal view), and the smaller size, a specimen of T. discoidea with 

 3£ whorls measuring 6 mm. in diameter. 



Sagda grandis n. sp. Figs. 7, 8. 



The shell is large, solid and high, the diameter not much exceeding 

 the height; white under a very thin pale yellow cuticle. The spire 

 is dome-shaped above; whorls about 9£, somewhat convex, the first 

 If nearly smooth, several following whorls densely and regularly 

 sculptured with fine, close, slightly curved, retractive striae, but on the 

 last two whorls they become almost obsolete; on the later whorls, 

 especially the last two, a secondary sculpture of extremely minute 

 vertical and slowly ascending spiral threads appears. On the base 

 this is wanting ; and denuded shells show traces of it like an extremely 

 fine fabric pressed into plastic clay. The last whorl in front view is 

 double the width of the preceding, is rounded peripherally, rather 

 convex on the base, and rather deeply excavated around the axis. 

 Aperture of the usual lunate shape. The basal lamina varies from 



Figs. 7, 8. — Sagda grandis. Fig. 9. — Sagda spei. 



± to one whorl long and is very high. It revolves at or barely within 

 the greatest convexity of the base. The columellar lamella is either 

 entirely wanting or low, blunt and weak, high on the axis. 



Alt. 26^ diam. 28* mm. 

 " 26 , " 29 " 



Somerset, Manchester. Types No. 100,883, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910. 



This fine Sagda is one of the largest of the genus. It occurs with 

 S. jayana (C. B. Ad.) from which it differs by (1) the weakness or 

 absence of a columellar lamella (2) the position of the basal lamella, 

 which revolves decidedly nearer the center than in S. jayana. (3) the 

 apical whorls, which are distinctly larger in grandis than in jayana 

 34 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



(4) the secondary microscopic sculpture of S. grandis, resembling a 

 woven fabric. 



This may be the form which C. B. Adams mentions (Contrib. to 

 Conch., p. 173) as a large form of Helix epistylium, but it is not the 

 species so named by M tiller. Thirty specimens were taken. 



Probably C. B. Adams' Helix epistylium var. minor from West- 

 moreland (Contrib. to Conch., p. 173) will prove to be a distinct 

 species which will be called Sagda minor (C. B. Ad.). 



The var. delaminata of the same author (t. c, p. 174) from Easington 

 in the district of St. Davids is perhaps another distinct species, but 

 it has been very inadequately described. 

 Sagda spei n. sp. Fig. 9. 



The shell is of moderate size, solid, elevated, the height about 85 

 per cent, of the diameter, white under a thin pale brown-tinted cuticle; 

 quite glossy. The spire is broadly dome-shaped above. Whorls 

 about 8, moderately convex, the first \\ nearly smooth, the rest 

 sculptured with fine, slightly curved, retractive striae, which in large 

 specimens are usually weaker on the last whorl. Under a strong lens 

 very feeble traces of granulation are barely perceptible in places 

 between the stria 1 on the last whorl. The last whorl in a front view is 

 more than twice the height of the preceding whorl. It is convex 

 beneath and moderately excaved in the center. The aperture is 

 lunate. The basal lamella is about a half whorl long, well developed, 

 and revolves at the point of greatest convexity of the base. The 

 columellar lamella though distinct is very small. 



Alt. 18, diam. 21.3 mm. ; whorls 8. 

 " 16, " 19.5 " " 7i 



Hope River region, the types from Hall's Delight, St. Andrew, 

 No. 88,715, A. N. S. P. 



This is a rather common snail eastward from Kingston. It differs 

 from S. jayana (C. B. Ad.) by the rudimentary columellar lamella and 

 by having the basal lamella situated further inward from the periphery. 

 In the structure of the lamella? it resembles S. grandis P. and B., from 

 which it differs by the greater height of the last whorl, the totally 

 distinct secondary sculpture, and the smaller apical whorl. 8. con- 

 nectens has the basal lamella more peripherally situated, and the spire 

 is much lower. S. alveare (Pfr.) has a more conic spire and lower 

 last whorl, but in the collection of the Academy numerous lots of this 

 species were so labelled. 



Sagda epistyloides Fer. is, according to the original figures, a shell 

 of about the size of S. spei; but it is represented as far more 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



529 



coarsely sculptured. We have seen no Sagda agreeing with Ferussac's 

 figures. 



One of us found many long-dead shells of S. spei in a thicket on the 

 western slope of Long Mountain at Rockfort. The shells are small and 

 low but otherwise agree with the types. Two apparently adult 

 examples measure: 



Alt. 13, diam. 17.5 mm.; whorls 7+. 

 " 12, " 16 " " 7." 



Sagda anodon n. sp. 



The shell is imperforate, rather thin, the height usually about three- 

 fourths the diameter; ay hit e under a thin smooth pale yelloYV cuticle. 

 Spire convexly Ioyv conic, the apex projecting slightly. Whorls about 

 6 J, slightly convex \ r ery slowly increasing, irregularly, rather weakly 

 striate. The periphery is broadly rounded. Base convex, excavated 

 in the center. Aperture lunate, without internal lamellae. 



Alt. 9.8, diam. 13.8 mm. 

 " 9.5, " 13 

 " 8.5, " 13.3 " 



Rockfort, near Kingston. Types No. 101,137, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910. 



The type lot consists of "dead" shells. A fresh one, not quite 

 mature, collected at Rockfort by Mr. Wm. J. Fox, supplied the item 

 of color. It is possible that this shell is the Helix epistylium var. 

 delaminata, very inadequately described by Professor C. B. Adams, 

 from Easington, St. Davids, a place some distance east from Rockfort. 



Fig. 10. — Sagda simplex. 

 Sagda simplex n. sp. Fig. 10. 



The shell is imperforate, much depressed, the height slightly over 

 half the diameter (56 to 57 per cent.); thin, white under a very thin, 

 glossy pale yellowish cuticle. Spire convex, whorls 6^ to 6f, slightly 

 convex, very slowly increasing, with weak sculpture of irregular growth- 

 wrinkles. The last whorl is rounded peripherally, convex beneath, 

 rather broadly but not deeply excavated around the axis. The aper- 




.130 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



ture is lunate, the columellar margin thickened near and at its insertion 

 in the center. There are no internal lamellae. 



Alt. 7.3, diam. 13 mm. 

 " 6.9, " 12 

 " 6.9, " 12.3 " 



Somerset, Manchester. Types No. 101,140, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by Dr. A. P. Brown, May, 1910. 



This form is apparently what Professor C. B. Adams described as 

 Helix osculum var. delaminata; but if so this name is barred by the 

 prior //. epistylium var. delaminata C. B. Ad., which is probably a 

 valid species. While the shell under consideration resembles Sagda 

 osculans closely in form, it differs constantly, in a very large series 

 collected in the Mandeville region, by the total absence of internal 

 laminae. The laminate S. osculans was not taken in this region. We 

 have no evidence whatever that the two forms intergrade, and are 

 decidedly of the opinion that both are distinct and valid species. 



Spirostemma mandevillensis »• sp. Fig. 11. 



The shell is pillar-shaped, the diameter contained 6 to 6£ times in 

 the length, widest near the middle, tapering very slowly 

 and slightly towards both ends; brown, rather dark when 

 living; widely truncate above, the breach closed by a 

 strongly convex plug. Whorls remaining are nearly flat, 

 the last one shortly free in front, very strongly keeled, at 

 the base, concave just above and below the keel. The 

 sculpture is of fine, regular, extremely oblique retractive 

 striae, which are about as wide as their intervals. The 

 aperture is small, its greatest length contained 6^ to 1\ 

 times in the length of the shell, very oblique, obovate, 

 being angular below, broadly rounded above. Peristome 

 pale, continuous, narrowly expanded throughout. The 

 internal axis is very slender, nearly straight in the upper 

 whorls. It begins to be sinuous in the seventh, becoming 

 progressively more broadly spiral from there to the last. 

 \5k/ In an obliquely basal view in the mouth a large false 

 Fig. 11. umbilicus is seen, about one-third as wide as the last 



whorl. 

 Length 14.3, diam. 2.2, length of aperture with peristome 1.9 mm.; 

 whorls 12f . 



Length 13.3, diam. 2.25, length of aperture with peristome 2 mm.; 

 whorls \2\. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



531 



Somerset Road, about two miles from Mandeville. Types No. 

 101,172, A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910. 



This species stands between S. tenella and S. elatior (C. B. Ad.). 

 S. tenella is a paler, smaller and more delicate species, with the aperture 

 less or not at all protracted. S. elatior is larger, more finely striate 

 shell, with the axis gyrate in a greater number of whorls. 



Varicella (Varicellula) rapax n. sp. Fig. 12. 



The shell is lanceolate, slender, the length about 3^ times the 

 diameter, thin, corneous, glossy. The outlines of 

 the spire are very slightly convex, nearly straight; 

 apex obtuse. Whorls 6^, moderately convex. The 

 first H whorls are smooth; then narrow vertical 

 impressed lines appear, faint and widely spaced at 

 first, soon becoming deeper, the last four whorls 

 sculptured with nearly regular vertical grooves 

 parted by much wider convex intervals (or wide, 

 very low, convex riblets parted by narrow grooves). 

 On the face of the last whorl there are about 3 such 

 riblets in one millimeter; they are a little more 

 crowded on the last part of the whorl. They extend 

 undiminished to the base. There are also a few very 

 ill-defined slightly deeper varix grooves, two on the 

 last, three on the penultimate whorl. The suture is 

 margined by transparence. The aperture is lanceo- 

 late, quite narrow in the upper third, 40% the length 

 of the shell. The outer lip arches well forward in 

 the middle, retracting above and below. The columella is quite short, 

 vertical, very obliquely truncate at its base. In basal view no "false 

 umbilicus" is visible. Length 10.5, diam. 3, length of aperture 

 4.6 mm. 



Somerset, Manchester. Type No. 101,421, A. N. S. P., collected 

 by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910. 



This species resembles V. puella (C. B. Ad.) in form of the shell 

 and columella, but differs from it by the very much coarser sculpture. 

 V. tenera (C. B. Ad.) is a much more slender species, which approaches 

 the new form in sculpture. V. rapax certainly differs from all of the 

 numerous Varicellas described by C. B. Adams, the types of which 

 have been redescribed and figured by one of us. Fresher specimens of 

 V. rapax may perhaps show brown streaks along the indistinct varix- 

 grooves. 



Fig. 12. 




532 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



Geomelania (Scalatella) microglypta n. sp. Fig. 13. 



The shell is minutely rimate, slender, columnar, 

 tapering very slowly to the obtuse (truncated) 

 summit, grayish-white. 6^ whorls remaining are 

 very convex, the suture deeply impressed. Sculp- 

 ture of longitudinal ribs somewhat wider than the 

 intervals, and about .055 mm. from crest to crest, 

 on the last two whorls; over the ribs and intervals 

 run many fine spiral threads, of which there are 

 about 36 on the penultimate whorl. The aperture 

 is ovate, outer lip obtuse, expanded ; in profile straight 

 or slightly concave above the periphery, regularly 

 arching forward at the lower outer portion. Length 

 4.1, diam. 1.1, length of aperture 1 mm. 



Near Mandeville. Types No. 101,345, A. N. S. P., 

 collected by A. P. and S. Brown, 1910. 



In figure and size this species hardly differs from 

 G. pygmaea ('. B. Ad., but the sculpture is very much 

 finer and closer. 



Fig. 13. 



Rhytidopoma fraterminor " Bp. Big. 14. 



The shell is perforate, turrite, rather slender, thin, variable in color: 

 dark reddish-brown, the stri:r lighter, or pale yellow 

 with vertical series of brown spots formed by the 

 interruption of spiral bands, of which there are six 

 on the last whorl, the next to the lowest one nearly 

 continuous; or it may be uniform pale yellowish. 

 In individuals retaining the spire the latter tapers 

 regularly to the obtuse apex; but the early whorls 

 are usually lost, leaving 5 to 5^ in adult shells. 

 Whorls 1h, strongly convex, the last fourth of the 

 last whorl descends, running free from the preceding 

 whorl, separated from it at the aperture by a distance 

 about equal to the width of the outer lip. The 

 embryonic shell consists of 2 whorls, the first H 

 smooth, the next half whorl minutely striate. After that sharp 

 strongly raised, narrow striae appear, arranged in groups of 3 or 4 on 

 the third whorl, mostly by pairs on the next two whorls; after which 

 the striae are in groups of 4 or 5, the first one largest, the rest gradually 

 diminishing. The groups are separated by plain spaces. On the last 

 3 or 4 whorls two or three larger striae of each group become higher 

 and lamellar near the suture above, where they project strongly. 



Fig. 14. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



Aperture oval, the inner outline less curved than the outer. Peris- 

 tome thin, flatly reflexed, whitish with several brown spots, sometimes 

 indistinct, wider on the outer and basal margins, and having a barely 

 projecting inner rim. 



Length 9.5, diam. 4 mm., width of outer lip .3 mm., 5£ whorls re- 

 maining. 



Length 10, diam. 4.2 mm., apex entire. 



Length 7, diam. 3.2 mm., 4^ whorls remaining. 



Wesley Mount Church, near William sfield. Types No. 101,503. 

 A. N. S. P., collected by Dr. A. P. Brown, 1910. 



This species is closely related to R. campbelli (C. B. Ad.), but it is 

 very much slenderer, less robust, with a much more slowly tapering- 

 spire and without the strong spiral cords in the umbilical region 

 characteristic of R. campbelli. Seven specimens were taken, one 

 having the spire entire. 



The striae are undulated in the darkest specimens, but not notice- 

 able in the light ones. 



CYCLOPHORIDiE. 



This family is represented by a single genus in Jamaica. There 

 has been a good deal of uncertainty about the proper generic name 

 for the group among the several following: 



Aperostoma Troschcl, Zeitschrift fur Malakozoologie, IV, 1847, p. 44; cj. 



Pfeiffer, /. c, pp. 44 and 104. Fischer, Manual de Conchy liologic, p. 744; 



and von Martens, Biplogia Ccntrali Americana, Mollusca, p. 300 [type 



C. blanchetianus], 

 Crocidopoma Shuttleworth, Journal dc Conchyl., V, 1857, p. 271 (lor C. 

 floccosum and C. suturale) [type C. saturate], 



Playstoma M6rch, Malak. Blatter, VII, 1869, p. (i(i. Not Playstoma Meigen, 



1803. 

 Neocyclotus Fischer et Crosse, Mission Sci. au Mexique, Moll., II, p. 148 



[type C. clijsoni Pfr.]. 

 Ptychocochlis Simpson, Proc. U. 8. National Museum, XVII, 1895, p. 431, 



type Neoct/clotux jamaicensis. 

 Plectocyclotus Kobelt und Moellendorff, Cat. gegenw, Pneumonopomen, 



p. 138 (34) [type C. jamaicense Sowb.]. 



Aperostoma was proposed, as Fischer and Crosse have pointed out. 

 for three very diverse species, belonging to as many genera; but 

 Pfeiffer, in the same year commented upon this fact, and restricted 

 the group to American Cycloti, giving a list of the species. This 

 restriction was accepted by Fischer (1885) and by von Martens (1890). 

 The genus Neocyclotus was therefore superfluous. Crocidopoma seems 

 to us to be only a subgenus of Aperostoma, not a separate genus. 



For the group of corrugated Jamaican species the subgeneric term 

 Ptychocochlis Simpson should be used. Plectocyclotus Kob. et Mlldff. 

 s an absolute synonym. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



PtychococJUis is a somewhat difficult group in the present condition 

 of the literature. Chitty's monograph is not all that could be desired; 

 yet his major grouping of the species by characters of the operculum is 

 doubtless sound. 



The species long known as " jamaicensis Chemnitz" is certainly not 

 the Chemnitzian form, which was really portlandcnsis of Chitty. As 

 Chemnitz was not binomial, this use of the name was of no effect. 

 " Cyclostoma jamaicensis" next figured in the supplement of Wood's 

 Index Testaceologicus, but the figure given defies identification, and 

 may or may not represent the jamaicensis of Sowerby's Thesaurus 

 Conchyliorum, where the first recognizable, though not veiy good, 

 figures are given. We would therefore call the species Aperostoma 

 jamaicensc (Sowerby). 



Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) lacteofluviale a. sp. 



The shell is umbilicate, the umbilicus contained 5^ times in the 

 diameter; rather depressed, the height two-thirds the diameter; 

 solid, covered with a chestnut cuticle. The spire is low and small; 

 whorls 4J, very convex, very finely striate radially, the first If nearly 

 smooth. Small waves then appear, at first radial in direction, but 

 after 2A whorls they become strong, regular, protractive, not reaching 

 either suture. After the first third of the last whorl the waves weaken 

 and are replaced by ill-defined depressions longer in the spiral direction. 

 At the periphery and base there are a few inconspicuous, coarse spirals. 

 The basal keel is low, defined by a depression within, and sometimes 

 with a few pits outside. The aperture is oblique, rotund, angular 

 above, reddish-brown within, the lip whitish, outer and inner margins 

 about equally curved. Alt. 10.5, diam. 16 nun. 



The operculum is rather strongly concave outside, and bears a spiral 

 lamella which makes 7 turns and terminates in a central pit as usual. 

 At the outer whorls, the edge of this lamina is reflexed outwardly and 

 flattened, almost meeting across the interval. Inside it is yellow and 

 slightly convex. Diameter 5 mm. 



Round Hill, Milk River, Clarendon, the types No. 101,193, A. N. 

 S. P., received from Mr. George H. Clapp. 



This is a species of Chitty's group 1, somewhat related to A. notatum 

 Chitty, but distinct in sculpture, etc. 



Aperostoma (Ptychocochlis) tryonianum a. sp. 



The shell is rather openly umbilicate, the diameter of the umbilicus 

 half the width of the aperture; height about 70 per cent, of the diam- 

 eter; white under a thin yellow cuticle which has a tendency to be 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



deciduous in several narrow bands on the last whorl. Spire low-conic, 

 the apex rather acute. Whorls 4+, tubular, the first 1^ nearly smooth, 

 the rest having a sculpture of fine, close, thread-like radial stria;, 

 closer and less regular on the last whorl. There is no trace of corruga- 

 tion. The last whorl is rounded, with no trace of a keel or ridge on 

 the base. Aperture nearly circular, not angular above, slightly 

 oblique, the thin peristome in contact with the preceding whorl for a 

 very short distance only. 



Alt. 10, diam. 14 mm. 



Operculum evenly and moderately concave outside, bearing a spiral 

 lamina of fully 7 whorls outside of the central depression. This 

 lamina flares broadly outward, leaving but a narrow space between 

 the turns; and its outer end is not concrescent with the preceding- 

 turn. The inside is convex in the middle. Diameter 5 mm. 



Jamaica. Type No. 101,141, A. N. S. P., from the G. W. Tryon 

 collection. 



A species of Chitty's group No. 1, apparently related to the small 

 variety of A. notatus, but with no trace of a basal keel or corruga- 

 tion. 





o 



r 

 3 



o 

 H 



o 



en 





o 



r 



2 

 o 

 H 



o 



C/3 





o 

 r 



o 



H 

 O 



1 — t 



W 





o 



r 

 w 



3 



2 

 o 



O 



l-H 



T3 



53 

 O 

 O 



> 



n 



> 

 p 



> 

 H 



c/> 

 O 



r 



> 



CO 



o 



"0 

 r 



> 



H 



M 



X 





o 



r 

 x 



z 

 o 



H 



O 



Tl 



o 

 p 



> 

 n 

 > 



p 



> 



H 



05 



o 



17 



s 



r 



_> 



o 



13 



r 

 > 



H 



X 





o 



r 



3 



2 

 O 



H 



pa 

 o 

 ■v 



CO 



o 



O 

 > 



o 

 > 

 a 



■z 



> 



H 



w 

 o 



t— I 

 TO 



r 

 > 



CD 



o 



T3 



r 

 > 



H 

 W 



X 





o 



r 

 pi 

 do 



o 

 H 



o 



• — i 



no 



o 

 p 



> 



o 

 > 

 p 



z 



> 

 H 



w 



CJ 



X 



CO 



o 



> 



H 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1910. 



PLATE XXII. 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXIII. 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXIV. 



93 



191 



96 



97 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXV. 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXVI. 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXVII. 



COOK: SPERMATOGENESIS IN LEPIDOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



MOORE: polych^tous annelids. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXIX. 



MOORE: POLYCfL^TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1910. 



PLATE XXX. 



MOORE: POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXI. 



MOORE: POLYCH^ETOUS ANNELIDS 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXII. 



MOORE: POLYCH^TOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXIII. 



120 



MOORE: POLYCH^ETOUS ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



V:V"i 



F 



■ 







I, 



PALMER: STAURONEIS 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910 



PLATE XXXV 



PALMER: NAVICULA SOCIALIS 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



BUSH: BERMUDA ANNELIDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



^ 



4 8 9 



PILSBRY- LAND MOLLUSCA OF PANAMA. 





1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



deciduous in several narrow bands on the last whorl. Spire low-conic, 

 the apex rather acute. Whorls 4^, tubular, the first H nearly smooth, 

 the rest having a sculpture of fine, close, thread-like radial strise, 

 closer and less regular on the last whorl. There is no trace of corruga- 

 tion. The last whorl is rounded, with no trace of a keel or ridge on 

 the base. Aperture nearly circular, not angular above, slightly 

 oblique, the thin peristome in contact with the preceding whorl for a 

 very short distance only. 



Alt. 10, diam. 14 mm. 



Operculum evenly and moderately concave outside, bearing a spiral 

 lamina of fully 7 whorls outside of the central depression. This 

 lamina flares broadly outward, leaving but a narrow space between 

 the turns; and its outer end is not concrescent with the preceding 

 turn. The inside is convex in the middle. Diameter 5 mm. 



Jamaica. Type No. 101,141, A. N. S. P., from the G. W. Tryon 

 collection. 



A species of Chitty's group No. 1, apparently related to the small 

 variety of A. notatus, but with no trace of a basal keel or corruga- 

 tion. 



35 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



October 4. 

 ' Hexry Skinner, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



The Secretaries, the Librarian and the Curators reported on the 

 work accomplished during the summer. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the 

 following titles had been presented for publication since the meeting 

 held May 17: 



"A New Haitian Oligocene Horizon," by Henry A. Pilsbry (June 6). 



"Descriptions of new Serpulids from Bermuda with Notes on known 

 forms from Adjacent Regions," by Katherine J. Bush. Ph.D. (June 21). 



"Flora of the Conowingo Barrens of Southeastern Pennsylvania/' 

 by Francis W. Pennell (June 28). 



"Preliminary Studies of North Carolina Orthoptera," by James 

 A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (Jul}' 1). 



"Records of Georgia and Florida Orthoptera with the Descriptions 

 of one New Species and one New Subspecies," by James A. G. Rehn 

 and Morgan Hebard (July 1). 



"Antiquities of the St. Francis, White and Black Rivers," by 

 Clarence B. Moore (July 7). 



"Land Mollusca of the Panama Canal Zone," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 (July 20). 



"The Mollusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, and its Environs," by 

 Henry A. Pilsbry and Amos P. Brown (July 21). 



"Some Berks County Minerals," by Edgar F. Smith (September 13). 



"Notes on Chima?roid and Ganoid Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler 

 (September 27). 



" Little Known New Jersey Fishes," by Henry W. Fowler (September 

 27, 1910). 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Francis 

 R. Cope. November 6, 1909; Oliver Bradin, May 8, 1910; Charles S. 

 Whelen. June 10, 1910; John M. Hartman, September 4, 1910; Theo- 

 dore de Thodorovitch, September 23, 1910. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



October IS. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "A New Albuloid Fish from San Domingo," by 

 Henry W. Fowler, was presented for publication. 



The paper entitled "Antiquities of the St. Francis, White and Black 

 Rivers," by Clarence B. Moore, presented July 7, was accepted for 

 publication in the Journal of the Academy. 



Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on further studies of 

 the life-zones of southern New Jersey in continuation of a paper 

 published by him in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1907. 

 {No abstract.) 



The subject was discussed by Messrs. A. E. Brown, Philip P. Calvert, 

 Samuel Rhoads and John W. Harshberger. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



SOME BERKS COUNTY MINERALS. 

 BY EDGAR F. SMITH. 



Ten years ago, the late Ex-Congressman D. B. Brunner and Dr. 

 Schoenfeld, of Reading, Pa., placed in my hands a number of minerals 

 which they gathered from a railroad cut east of Reading. Consider- 

 able blasting had been done and a great deal of rock material had been 

 removed. It was upon pieces of this rock and in its crevices that 

 they obtained the minerals which I was to examine at my leisure 

 and analyze if I cared so to do. At intervals these minerals have 

 been submitted for study in the laboratory of the University of 

 Pennsylvania, with results that have been more or less interesting. 



Laumoxtite. — The color was chalk}*-white and the lustre vitreous 

 and pearly. Before the blow-pipe it fused quite readily to a white 

 enamel. It was gelatinized when digested with hydrochloric acid. 

 The specific gravity of the sample taken for analysis was found to be 

 2.253. As a result of analysis it showed 14.12 per cent, loss upon 

 ignition; 11.89 per cent. CaO; 22.2 per cent. Al,( ) 3 , and 52.12 per 

 cent. Si< > 2 . 



Apophyllitk. — The crystals of the specimen examined were color- 

 less to white, with a vitreous lustre and basal cleavage. When heated 

 in a closed tube it exfoliated, became milk-white in color, and gave 

 forth much water and showed a slight acid reaction. Before a blow- 

 pipe it fused to a plebby glass. It was decomposed by hydrochloric 

 acid with the separation of silica, but it was not distinctly gelatinized. 

 Its specific gravity was found to be 2,399. On analysis it showed : 



Si0 2 52. 03 per cent. 



A1,0 3 0.28 



Fe,0 3 Trace 



Cat) 25.11 



Na 2 0.71 



KgO 5.13 



Ign 17.43 



Another specimen of crystals distributed over prehnite gave a spe- 

 cific gravity of 2.37, and on analysis showed : 



SiO^ 51.95 per cent. 



A1 2 3 + Fe 2 3 2.94 



CaO 23.68 



K 2 4.47 



Na,0 0.34 



MgO 0.36 



Ign 15.81 " 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Several samples of stilbite were found as thin radiating layers of 

 crystals upon the face of the rock. These crystals readily broke into 

 flat pearly plates. They gave much water when heated in a closed 

 tube and were decomposed by hydrochloric acid without the forma- 

 tion of a jelly. Before the blow -pipe they fused with swelling and 

 intumescence to a white enamel. The specific gravity was found to 

 be 2.12. Upon analysis there were found: 



SiO, .' 54. 27 per cent. 



A1,0 3 17.24 



CaO 7.81 



Na,0 1.81 



Igi{ 19.56 



Garnets, varying in color from black to green, brown to gray, trans- 

 parent in thin sections with a greenish to brownish tint, were observed 

 distributed through the rocks. The specimen analyzed showed a 

 specific gravity of 3.6, and upon anabysis gave: 



SiO, 34.98 per cent. 



Fe 2 6 3 26.82 



FeO 0.37 



AL0 3 5.82 



MnO 0.08 " 



CaO 31.23 



MgO 0.57 



Pyroxene. — This appeared in light green colored crystals with a 



violet lustre. It fused quietly but with difficulty to a brown glass. 



It was insoluble in hydrochloric acid. The crystals showed the 



outward form of the hexagonal system. The specific gravity of the 



specimen analyzed was found to be 3,187. Its analysis showed: 



SiO, 52.23 per cent. 



A1.0, 3.58 



FeO 2.45 



MnO 1.55 



CaO 20.00 



MgO '. 18.31 



Ign 1.79 



Chabazite. — The crystals were colorless or white. When heated 

 in a closed tube they gave out much water. They were decomposed 

 by lwdrochloric acid without the formation of a jelly. They fused 

 before the blow-pipe to a plebby glass. The specific gravity was 

 found to be 2,053. The analysis showed: 



Si0 2 48.59 per cent. 



A1 2 3 18.49 " 



CaO 8.78 



MgO 0.05 



-\a,0 1.41 " 



K,0 0.69 " 



Ign 22.01 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Scolecite. — The specimen analyzed consisted of a mass of radiating 

 needles in which were mixed small, but distinct, crystals of calcite, 

 particularly at the base of the tufts of needles. The crystals showed 

 a silky lustre. They gave out much water when heated in a closed 

 tube and curled up like a worm. Thej^ were readily gelatinized 

 by means of hydrochloric acid. The specific gravity was found to 

 be 2.27. The analysis showed: 



Si0 2 47.04 per cent. 



AL0 3 25.42 



CaO 9.S6 



Na,0 4.77 



Ign 13.60 



So far as the writer is aware, this represents the first notice of the 

 occurrence of this particular mineral in the State of Pennsylvania. 

 All the others have been obtained at various points in Berks County, 

 which has proved to be a most fruitful field for many mineral varieties. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



FLORA OF THE C0N0WING0 BARRENS OF SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 



BY FRANCIS W. PEXNELL. 



During the summers of 1908 and 1909 the writer was enabled to 

 spend considerable time in the stud}' of the flora of the Conowingo 

 or Serpentine Barrens lying in Chester and Delaware Counties, Penn- 

 sylvania. Nearly all the areas in these counties were visited, in most 

 cases repeatedly, and full collections made. The writer has also been 

 able to examine the material in the herbaria of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, the Philadelphia Botanical Club, and the 

 University of Pennsylvania. 



The object of this paper is to present accurate data as to the species 

 composing the flora of the barrens. Effort has been made to make 

 the list of species accurate and complete, while less attention for the 

 present has been paid to the ecological grouping and adaptations of 

 the flora. The general conditions of the environment — climate, 

 physiography and soil — will, however, be considered, and a sketch 

 of the flora and its affinities presented. 



In the prosecution of this study the writer acknowledges the 

 courtesy of the custodians of the herbaria named, and especially 

 that of S. S. Van Pelt and Witmer Stone, to whose interest he is 

 indebted for much aid in the determination of species. Also to 

 Agnes Chase, of the United States Department of Agriculture, is he 

 indebted for determinations in the genus Panicum. 



Climate. 



The climate of this district, as taken from the reports of the 

 Weather Bureau stations at West Chester and Kennett Square, 

 shows the general condition prevailing throughout the Middle Atlantic 

 States. The average temperature for January is 30° F.: for July 

 74° F. ; the average first killing frost of autumn is on October 19, 

 the last of spring on April 16; the precipitation is relatively even and 

 well diffused throughout the year, reaching a total average annual 

 rainfall of 50 inches. Thus it may be seen that the growing season 

 is of considerable length, warm and well supplied with moisture. 

 The xerophytic character of the Conowingo flora is not the result 

 of the climate. 




512 proceedings of the academy of [oct., 



Physiography axd Soil. 



The Conowingo, or Serpentine, Barrens occur as small isolated 

 areas, stretching in a much broken chain near the coastward edge of 

 the Piedmont Plateau from New England to North Carolina. In 

 Pennsylvania they lie in a hilly, much eroded country, and, owing to 

 the chemical stability of serpentine rock, occur usually on crests and 

 as low ridges. 



Their geologic structure is striking and has been frequently de- 

 scribed. 1 Their soil has been lately described in several publications 

 of the Division of Soils of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 2 In 

 these the name Conowingo Barrens is consistently applied, which 

 has led to its adoption in the present paper. 



Two types of soil are derived from the weathering of the Serpentine 

 — itself a soft, green, altered igneous rock: the Conowingo Barrens 

 and the Conowingo clay. ( )f these the latter represents a much decom- 

 posed soil of considerable depth and forms a transition between the 

 Conowingo Barrens. and the normal mellow soils of the district. The 

 Conowingo Barrens are alone considered here. 



"The soil (of the Conowingo Barrens) generally is a light yellow 

 or whitish-looking loam, but in places it is almost black. The top 

 soil occasionally has a depth of 8 or 10 inches, and it is underlain by a 

 yellowish-brown subsoil to. a depth of 36 inches. The soil is generally 

 much shallower, and in the case of the barren hills of this formation 

 the rocks are devoid of any trace of soil covering except that caught 

 in the pockets and crevices of the rocks. Frequently even on level 

 or lightly rolling areas the soil may not exceed a few inches in depth. 

 These soils, as seen from the mechanical analyses of samples collected, 

 are not essentially different from man}' of the productive upland 

 soils, but they are unproductive, and in extreme cases will not produce 

 anything in a natural state except a stunted growth of small pines 

 and knotty oak trees. At the best they are stubborn and unproduct- 

 ive, and although many reasons have been assigned for their sterility 

 none seem altogether satisfactory. Professor Merrill (Rocks, Eock- 

 weathering, and Soils. 1897) in speaking of the Chester County Barrens 

 says that these soils are derived from the slow decomposition of 

 peridotites, rocks rich in iron-magnesium silicates, but almost wholly 



1 See (a) Maryland Geol. Survey, Cecil Co. Report; (6) Penna. 2d Geol. 

 Surv., Chester Co. Report; (c) Philadelphia Geol. Folio, 1909. 



-See (a) Man/land Geol. Survey, Cecil Co. Report; (b) Harford Co. Report 

 (c) U. S. Div. of Soils, Chester Co., Penna., Report. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



lacking in lime, potash or other desirable constituents. Hence the 

 soils derived from such rocks are naturally devoid of nutrient matter 

 and can support only a scanty growth of grass and stunted shrubs. 

 The main reason which may be assigned for their unproductiveness 

 is the large amount of magnesia which they contain and their slight 

 depth. The analyses of these soils show that they contain very 

 minute quantities of lime and phosphoric acid." 3 



The Conowingo Barrens are rarely, if ever, cultivated; even for 

 pasturage or for timber they are of little practical value. They have 

 thus remained very nearly in their original condition. On all sides, 

 however, they shade into the more tractable clay formation, which 

 is frequently cleared and cultivated. 



In Delaware and Chester Counties, as may be seen on the maps, 

 the Barrens lie in two main divisions : to the northeast they are small 

 and scattered (Chester Group), to the southwest they form essentially 

 one long continuous area (State-line Barrens). In the former are 

 some 10 or 12 well-marked exposures, ranging from less than one-half 

 acre (e.g., Sconnelltown) to such as the Serpentine Ridge, three to 

 four miles long. These areas lie near together in extreme southern 

 Montgomery, Delaware, southeastern Chester Counties, Pennsyl- 

 vania, and northwestern Newcastle County, Delaware. They are 

 separated some twenty miles from the nearest point of the State-line 

 Barrens. The latter extends as one ridge, some thirty-five miles long, 

 with a width of one to three miles, trending west-southwest from Little 

 Elk Creek, Chester County, Pennsylvania, through northern Cecil 

 County, Maryland, and over the Susquehanna River into Harford 

 County, Maryland. With this area are allied smaller side areas in 

 southern Lancaster County. Pennsylvania, near the Conowingo Creek. 



Most of the field-work of this study is concerned with the Chester 

 group of Barrens, practically every area of which in Delaware and 

 Chester Counties has been visited. The State-line Barrens have 

 been but twice visited, on both occasions in August, and the route 

 traversed from Nottingham Station to Goat Hill near Octoraro Creek. 

 As the barrens in this section are known as the Nottingham Barrens, 

 this more local name will be used in reporting specimens. 



The areas from which specimens have been examined are: 



3 C. W. Dorsey and J. A. Bonsteel, in Maryland Geol. Surv., Cecil Co. 

 Report, p. 237. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. r 



Chester Group: 



Delaware County — 



1. Fawkes Run (Newtown). 



2. Preston Run. 



3. Bear Hill. 



4. Blue Hill. 



5. Middletown Township (Mineral Hill, Barrens~ofJ\liddle- 



town, Williamson, Lenni, Wawa). 

 Chester County — 



6. Sugartown Barrens and Serpentine Ridge. 



7. Cedar Barrens. 



S. West Chester Barrens (Fern Hill). 

 9. Sconnelltown and Strode's Mill. 



10. Brinton's Quarry. 



11. Marshallton (specimens noted collected by B. Long). 



12. Unionville. 

 State-line Group: 



13. Nottingham Barrens (Nottingham Station to Goat 

 Hill). 



14. A few other specimens, mainly collected by J. J. Carter, 



are cited from points in southern Lancaster County. 



Composition of Flora. 



Throughout these areas, and doubtless far beyond on either side, 

 the flora of the Conowingo Barrens is strikingly uniform, yet strik- 

 ingly in contrast with that of the surrounding district. The latter 

 originally was everywhere mesophytic woodland, on the Barrens 

 the change is made to a xerophytic woodland, and over considerable 

 areas to no woodland at all. Though other xerophytic areas, as 

 notably the South Valley and North Valley Hills to the north or the 

 dry sandy barrens of New Jersey across the Delaware River to the 

 south and east, lie not far away, the flora of the Conowingo Barrens 

 is quite distinct. 



Yet the flora of these barrens is not uniform. Situated like 

 islets in the midst of the surrounding vegetation, probably never 

 interconnected, it is interesting to note that species will occur and 

 be quite prevalent or even predominant on one, yet be quite scarce 

 or not present at all on another. This local variation is most pro- 

 nounced between the floras of the Chester and State-line groups. 



In the general sketch now presented only the features common 

 or nearly common to all the main exposures will be given. Local 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



differences and geographic notes on the component features will be 

 considered later . 



The upland barrens are mostly covered by a sparse growth of 

 timber of markedly xerophytic type. Quercus stellata is abundant on 

 all barrens, Quercus marylandica on most, while with these on the 

 State-line Barrens Pinus rigida becomes a predominant tree. Asso- 

 ciated with these may occur Sassafras sassafras, Acer rubrum and 

 Prunus serotina (the latter two usually in a stunted condition). The 

 round bushy growth of the thick-leaved oaks, with open park-like 

 spaces between, is the characteristic feature of this woodland. 



It is but a step from this type of woodland to that where the open 

 predominates, then to where on the barest ridges there is but scant 

 covering above the rock for any growth whatever. In such exceed- 

 ingly shallow soil, usually a greenish sand with fine portions of Ser- 

 pentine and talc rock interspersed, there is a scattered growth of 

 thin grasses, Aristida cliehotoma, A. gracilis, and Sporobolus vagince- 

 florus, with the nearly equally delicate Polygonum tenue and Aster 

 parviceps pusillus. It is here, locally, that Talinum teretifolium is 

 found. 



In slightly deeper soil, or on rock-ledges, Arabis lyrata, Asclepias 

 verticillata, J uncus secundus and Panicum philadelphicum become 

 predominant plants. Here Arenaria stricta is noteworthy as a local 

 plant. 



In all these the xerophytic habit is marked, mostly taking the form 

 of reduced, narrow or involute leaves, in Talinum teretifolium of 

 succulency; in Arabis lyrata the entire growth is made in the rela- 

 tively moist spring season. 



Scarcely less xerophytic is the herbaceous growth in the numerous 

 park-like openings mentioned. Grasses and sedges form the bulk 

 of the vegetation. Andropogon scoparius (both brown and purplish 

 forms), Panicum philadelphicum, P. spharocarpon, Aristida cliehotoma, 

 A. gracilis, and Scleria pauciflora are abundant, while constant, but 

 individually less numerous, are Sorghastrum nutans, Paspalum pubes- 

 cens, Syntherisma filiformis, Panicum annulum, P. huachucce silricola, 

 P. scribnerianum, Aristida purpurascens, Sporobolus vaginaflorus, 

 Danthonia spicata, Eragrostis pectinacea, Cyperus filiculmis macilentus, 

 Car ex triceps hirsuta and Car ex glaucodea. 



Other constant herbs of the dry open barrens are Juncus secundus, 

 Sisyrinchium mucronatum, Comandra umbellata, Polygonum tenue, 

 Cerastium oblongifolium, Arabis lyrata, Saxifraga virginiensis , Poten- 

 tilla pumila, Hypericum punctatum, Helianthemum majus, Viola 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



fimbriatula (S). (Serpentine form), Angelica villosa, Sabbedia angularis, 

 Asdepias verticillcda, Koelliei ffexuosa, Houstonia ccerulea, Lobelia spi- 

 cata. Eupatorium aromaticum, Solidago nemoralis. Aster ericoides, A. 

 parviceps pusillus, A. lateriflorus, Antennaria neglecta, A. plantagini- 

 folia, and Senecio bedsamita. 



Where the trees are somewhat closer together and over much of 

 the intervening area there is a shrubby growth forming dry upland 

 thicket. Salix tristis, Corylus americana, Rhus glabra, Ceanothus 

 americana, Gaylussacia baccata, ~\'accinium medians are predominant, 

 while frequent with these are Quercus diet folia. Q. prinoides, Rosa 

 hum ills, Rhus copallina, Xolisma ligustrina and Polycodium stamincum. 



Large areas of the open, and especially about depressions, are 

 covered with an abundant growth of greenbrier, mainly Smilax 

 rotundifolia, though accompanied by S. glauea. Juniperus virginiana 

 is the main tree of such depressions, and the densest growth of Smilax 

 usually occurs beneath it. Acer rubrum here becomes a tree of con- 

 siderable size. 



In the dry upland thicket and open woodland, and about the edge 

 of these cedar-greenbrier thickets, the vegetation is decidedly more 

 mesophytic, most of the species here being common to the surrounding 

 district. In the woodland occur PJiegopteris hexagonoptera, Panicum 

 dichotomum, P. boscii, L/inum virginianum, Dasystoma flava, Gerardia 

 tenuifolia, Hierdcium venosum, Nabalus serpentarius, Solidago bicolor 

 and Sericocarpus asteroides. Many other species of the surrounding- 

 flora are more or less casual here. 



In the greenbrier thicket and about its edge grow man}' herbs, 

 of which Andropogon furcatus, Seirpus atrovirens, Sdene steUata, 

 Vernonia noveboracensis, Eupatorium perfoliatum, Solidago rugosa, 

 Helianthus giganteus and Cirsium muticum may be mentioned as con- 

 stant and frequent. Beneath the dense shade of the cedars and 

 greenbrier and on banks of small streamlets PolysUchum aerosti- 

 choides, Asplenia m p'aty neuron, Homedocenchrus virginicus, Agrostis 

 perennans, Aretbis lyrata, Saxijraga virginiensis occur with other 

 species of the open dry barrens in ranker growth. 



Where depressions exist free from the covering of thicket or trees, 

 especially where, though not wet in summer, complete desiccation 

 seldom occurs, where the soil is largely a greenish sand, but not dry 

 or arid, a peculiar vegetation exists. Deschampsia ceespitosa and 

 Fimbristylis laxa occur here, with locally Cassia ehamaerista, Cyperus 

 aristatus, and Gerardia purpurea parvulu. 



Between the upland xerophytic woodland and the surrounding 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



mesophytic forest the change, sometimes abrupt, is usually gradual. 

 Of the trees Quercus stellata, Q. marylandica and Pin us rigida do not 

 pass beyond the limits of the Serpentine, and over any extended view 

 may be taken to indicate its position. But Sassafras sassafras, Acer 

 rubrum and Nyssa sylvatica pass beyond, Quercus alba, Castanea 

 dentata and Quercus velutina come successively into prominence, 

 though not till the barrens are left does Liriodendron tulipifera become 

 a predominant forest tree. 



The flora of one other plant-association was noted, though only 

 partially. In the rich swamps at the base of the hills, derived mainly 

 from the washing of the barren soil, there is a varied and abundant 

 vegetation. Mostly this is the normal swamp-flora of the surrounding 

 district, but a few species seem constantly present here which are 

 much less frequently seen elsewhere. Such are Osmunda spectabilis, 

 Spiraea latifolia, Sanguisorba canadensis and Heliopsis helianthoides. 



The local variations of this flora are considerable. The isolation 

 of the different areas, the meagre size of some, the nearness of some 

 to one or another barren of a different type, all tend to modify the 

 flora. Yet the above characteristic species remain remarkably 

 constant. 



Because of its large continuous area the State-line Barrens probably 

 better illustrate the complete flora of the type than any other. Pin us 

 rigida, Sporobolus heterolepis, Ascyrum hypericoides, Pieris mariana, 

 Galium boreale, and Eupatorium pubescens were found here only, 

 while Quercus marylandica , Cassia chamcecrista , and Acerates riridiflora 

 present here are very local in the Chester group. 



The distance separating the two groups of barrens makes the 

 distinction between them the most important variation in the flora. 

 It is impossible from the meagre information as to the Nottingham 

 flora to speak with certainty of what plants present in the Chester 

 Group are absent in the State-line group. The following species of 

 the former have not been noted in the latter, Atheropogon curtijx n- 

 dulus, Deschampsia ccespitosa, Cyperus aristatus, Carex bicknellii and 

 Scutellaria parvula ambigua. 



In the Chester Group the variation is mostly in accessory non- 

 characteristic species. The only general division which can be made 

 is between the relatively deeper-soiled barrens of Delaware County 

 and the bare rocky ridges frequent in southeastern Chester County. 

 On the latter only occur Atheropogon curtipendulus, Talinum tereti- 

 folium and Arenaria stricta, on the former Quercus marylandica and 

 likely Lilium philadelphicum. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Many other notable species occur irregularly or in but one or t\\ o 

 areas. Of commoner species Phlox subulata is a conspicuous instance. 

 Of scarcer species may be mentioned Pinus virginiana, Ari&tida 

 oligantha, Sphcnopholis obtusata pubescens, Aletris farinosa. Meihomia 

 rigida, Sarothra gentianoides, Viola pedata lineariloba, Gentiana crinita, 

 Phlox pilosa, Scutellaria pamila airibigua, Gerard ia purpurea parvula, 

 Castilleia coccinea, Lonicera semperrirens, Lacinaria spicata, Aster 

 patens and Antennaria neodioica. 



Geographical Affinities of the Flora. 



The following list shows 217 species composing the characteristic 

 flora of the Conowingo Barrens, while some 77 others were collected 

 occasionally. Of the characteristic species 17 in this section of the 

 Piedmont area are quite or nearly confined to these barrens, while 

 4 s others occur mainly here. The remaining- species belong to the 

 normal flora of the district, and their distribution will be less considered. 



-Many of the species occurring mainly on the Conowingo Barrens 

 occur also on other barren (xerophytic) formations of the district, 

 as the South Valley Hill (shale) and the North Valley Hill (quartzite 

 and sandstone). Among such may be mentioned Panicum philadel- 

 phicum, P. depaupcratum, P. scribnerianum, P. sphwrocarpon, Aristida 

 gracilis, Juncus secundus, Smilax glauca, S. rotundifolia, Sisyrinchium 

 mucronaium, Quereus dieifolia, Q. stellata. Q. prinoides, Comandra 

 umbellata, Polygonutn tenue, Lespedeza capitata, L. virginica, Angelica 

 villosa, and Senecio balsamitce. A common dry light soil accounts 

 for such distribution. 



Across the Delaware River in New Jersey, also in southern Delaware, 

 lie the sand barrens of the Atlantic Coastal Plain. From here have 

 evidently been derived a number of coastal (Carolinian) species. 

 Besides all the above list of xerophytes, Pinus virginiana, P. rigida, 

 Aristida oligantha, A. purpurascens, Scleria triglomerata , Quereus 

 marylandica, Cassia chamarrista, Strophostyles umbelleda, Asclepias 

 verticillata, Phlox subidata, Eupatorium aromaticum are species present 

 to both floras. Other less characteristic species showing coastal 

 influence are Typha angustifolia, Panicum commonsianum, P. addisonii, 

 Juncus aristulatus, Aletris farinosa and Pieris mariana. Fimbristylis 

 laxa. though not found in New Jersey, likewise seems to imply a coast- 

 ward southern influence. 



Distinctive species in the characteristic Conowingo flora showing 

 a northern or Alleghanian influence are Sporobolus heterolepis, Des- 

 chaynpsia ca'spitosa. Atheropogon cvrtipendulus, Carex glaucodea, C. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



bieknellii, Lilium philadelphicum , Quercus Uicifolia, Arenaria stricta, 

 and Galium boreale. Of these Sporobolus heterolepis, Deschampsia 

 ccespitosa, Carex bieknellii and Galium boreale here reach their most 

 southerly recorded stations in the Eastern States. 



The species in this district restricted to the Conowingo Barrens are 

 Panicum annulum, Sporobolus heterolepis, Sphenopholis obtusata 

 pubescens, Deschampsia ccespitosa, Atheropogon curtipendulus, Fim- 

 bristylis laxa, Carex bieknellii, Quercus marylandica, Talinum tereti- 

 folium, Cerastium oblongifolium, Arenaria stricta, Asclepias verticillata , 

 Phlox subidata, Scutellaria parvula ambigua, Gerardia purpurea par- 

 vula, and Aster parviceps pusillus. Of these most are wide-ranging 

 and have been considered. 



Of those remaining, Panicum annulum, Sphenopholis obtusata 

 pubescens, and Scutellaria parvula ambigua seem very local here and 

 occur in areas widely remote over most of the Eastern States. 

 Talinum teretifolium, Cerastium oblongifolium and Aster parviceps 

 pusillus in the East, at least, are practically confined to magnesian 

 (i.e., Serpentine) soil. Aster parviceps pusillus, common here, is only 

 known from the Serpentine Barrens of a small area in southern Penn- 

 sylvania and adjacent West Virginia. Cerastium oblongifolium and 

 Talinum teretifolium range west to Minnesota and Colorado / and 

 toward the western part of their range are adapted to other xero- 

 phytic habitats. The range of Gerardia purpurea parvula is not as 

 yet understood. 



I. List of Species Composing the Flora of the Conowingo 



Barrens. 



* Nearly or quite restricted in Delaware and Chester Counties to 



Conowingo Barrens, 

 t Common to surrounding country, but much more frequent on 



Conowingo Barrens. 

 \ Frequent on Conowingo Barrens, but much less common than in 



surrounding district. 

 — Those species of the surrounding flora found as mere stragglers 



on the Conowingo Barrens, also noteworthy introduced species 



are listed at the end. 

 Unless otherwise credited, all records are represented by specimens 



of the writer's collecting. 



fl. OSMUNDA SPECTABILIS L. 



Frequent in rich shaded swamps. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



2. Pteridium aquilinum (L.) Kuhn. 



Frequent on dry upland, open or about edges of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester. 



3. Asplenium platyneurox (L.) Oakes. 



Frequent on dry or rocky barrens, or open woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



4. POLYSTICHUM ACROSTICHOIDES (Michx.) Schott. 



Frequent on shaded banks and in border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Barrens of Middletown. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



|5. Dexxst.edtia puxcticuloba (Michx.) Moore. 



Frequent in border-woodland. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



f6. PlXUS VTRGINIANA Mill. 



A few trees in one locality, on dry open barrens. 

 Chester. — Serpentine Ridge. 



f7. Pixus rigida Mill. 



Only on State-line Barrens, where abundant on dry upland. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



5. JUXIPERUS VTRGINIANA L. 



Frequent mainly in depressions of upland, greenbrier thickets. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



9. Typha axgustifolia L. 



Scarce; in a quarryhole and pool. 

 Delaware. — Williamson; Lenni. 



10. Axdropogox scoparius Michx. 



Abundant on dry open barrens. Two forms, but hardly separable. 

 A brownish, much tufted and branched form, and a glaucous, pur- 

 plish, less tufted, and branched, taller and more wand-like form — 

 both forms abundant and growing together, the latter seemingly 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



more restricted to the Conowingo Barrens. Not distinguished in 

 records. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Barrens of 

 Middletown; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Marshallton (B. Long); Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



11. Andropogon furcatus Muhl. 



Frequent in depressions of dry barrens and about edges of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run (S. S. Van Pelt) ; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Brinton's Quarry. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



12. SORGHASTRUM NUTANS (L.) Nash. 



Common on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry. 



13. Paspalum pubescens Muhl. 



Common on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Preston Run ; Lenni. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); Serpentine Ridge; 

 Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



14. Syxtherisma filiformis (L.) Nash. 



Common on dry open barrens, especially in partial shade. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); Serpentine Ridge; 

 Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



fl5. Panicum philadelphicum Bernh. 



Abundant on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; 

 Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



$16. Panicum dichotomiflorum Michx. 



Frequent in moist to dry border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 

 36 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



J17. Paxicum anceps Michx. 



Frequent on open grassy border-land. 

 Delaware. — Preston Run; Williamson; Lenni. 



1 18. Panicum depauperatum Muhl. 



Frequent or locally abundant on dry barrens or edges of thickets. 

 Apparently more common in Chester than in Delaware County. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



fl9. Panicum linearifolium Scribn. 



Known only from the following specimens. 



Delaware.— "Newtown" (B. H. Smith); "Del. Co." (Dr. Geo. 

 Smith). 



20. Panicum dichotomum L. 



Frequent in dry barren or border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Middletown Barrens. 



21. Panicum barbulatum Michx. 



Frequent in dry barren or border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



*22. Panicum annulum Ashe. 



Frequent on dry barren banks and edges of thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



23. Panicum huachuce silvicola Hitchc. and Chase. 



Frequent on dry barrens, and edge of thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Blue Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — West Chester ; Unionville. 



|24. Panicum scribnerianum Nash. 



Frequent on dry open barrens and sandy banks. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson; 

 Lenni. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; West Chester; Sconnelltown; Union- 

 ville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f25. Panicum sph^erocarpon Ell. 



Abundant on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Blue Hill; 

 Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester.- — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Brinton's Quarry. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



$26. Panicum boscii Poir. 



Frequent in dry or rocky border-woodland. 

 Delaware— Williamson; "Del. Co." (Dr. Geo. Smith). 



$27. Panicum clandestinum L. 



Frequent in moist border-land and edges of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens ; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



28. Homalocenchrus viRGiNicus (Willd.) Britton. 

 Common in shade of woodland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



29. Homalocenchrus oryzoides (L.) Poll. 



Frequent in rich swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; West Chester; Unionville. 



30. Aristida dichotoma Michx. 



Abundant on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; West Chester; 

 Sconnelltown; Brinton's Quarry ; Unionville. 



f31. Aristida oligantha Michx. 



Scarce; on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



f32. Aristida gracilis Ell. 



Common on dry open barrens. 



Delaware.— Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Middletown Barrens! 

 Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester.— Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



^33. Aristida purpurascens Poir. 



Frequent on dry open barrens. 



Dela ware.— Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; 

 Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester,— Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



34. MUHLEXBERGIA SYLVATICA ToiT. 



Frequent in dry woodland and edges of greenbrier. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run ; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



f35. MUHLEXBERGIA FOLIOSA Trill. 



Frequent or local on border of greenbrier thicket and in partial shade. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens; Williamson. 



36. Sporobolus vagix.eflorus (Torr.) Wood. 



Common on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; 

 Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Sconnelltown ; Unionville. 



*37. Sporobolus heterolepis A. Gray. 



Dry open barren, on State-line Barrens only. Reported also 

 from southern Lancaster Coimty, Pleasant Grove (J. J. Carter) and 

 New Texas (T. C. Porter), probably on contiguous Serpentine Barrens. 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



38. Agrostis perexxans (Walt.) Tuckerm. 



Common in moist to desiccated woodland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; Unionville. 



39. Agrostis hyemalis (Walt.) B. S. P. 



Occasional on diy barren. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



*40. Deschampsia oespitosa (L.) Beauv. 



Frequent in moist sandy soil. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Crum Creek (J. W. Harshberger) ; Wil- 

 liamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



{41. Danthonia spicata (L.) Beauv. 

 Frequent on dry open border-land. 

 Delaware. — Wawa. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



*42. Atheropogon curtipendulus (Michx.) Fourn. 



Local, occasionally abundant, on dry open barrens. 

 Chester. — West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Marshallton (B. Long); 

 Unionville. 



{43. Tridens flavus (L.) Hitchc. 



Frequent on dry open border-land. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Lenni. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



44. Eragrostis pectinacea (Michx.) Steud. 



Common on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



*45. Sphenopholis obtusata pubescens (Scribn. and Merr.) Scribn. 



Collected but once, over 40 years ago. 



Delaware. — "Newtown" (Dr. Geo. Smith), probably Fawkes Run. 



f46. Cyperus aristatus Rottb. 



Occasional on damp depressions or banks. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge (S. S. Van Pelt); Cedar Barrens (S. S. 

 Van Pelt); West Chester (J. W. Harshberger). 



47. Cyperus strigosus L. 



Frequent in moist depressions, quarry-holes. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brin- 

 ton's Quarry; Unionville. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



48. Cyperus filiculmis macilextus Fernald. 

 Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brin- 

 ton's Quarry. 



49. Eleocharis texuis (Willd.) Schultes. 



Abundant on wet sandy depressions. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



*50. Fimbristylis laxa Vahl. 



Common on moist sand} r depressions. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Mineral Hill (B. Heritage); Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); Serpentine Ridge; 

 Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Marshallton (B. Long); Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f51. Scirpus atrovirexs Muhl. 



Frequent in moist soil. 



Dela ware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — West Chester; Brinton's Quarry. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



52. Rhyxchospora glomerata (L.) Vahl. 



Occasional in moist soil. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 



f53. SCLERIA TRIGLOMERATA Michx. 



Frequent on dry open barren, and edges of greenbrier thicket. 



Dela ware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



|54. SCLERIA PAUCIFLORA Mllhl. 



Abundant on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Lenni (J. H. Redfield) ; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester ; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 

 Lancaster. — Texas (Dr. Geo. Smith). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



*55. SCLERIA PAUCIFLORA CAROLINIAN A (Willd.) Wood. 



One collection seen. 



"Serpentine on West Chester Road" (C. E. Smith). 



J56. Carex lurida Wahl. 



Frequent in Serpentine swamps. 

 Chester.— Serpentine Ridge; Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



57. Carex hystricina Muhl. 



In a moist quarry-hole. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



58. Carex triceps hirsuta (Willd.) Bailey. 



Common on dry open Barrens. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens: Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



f59. Carex glaucodea Tuckerm. 



Frequent on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge (S. S. Van Pelt); Cedar Barrens (S. S. 

 Van Pelt) ; Unionville. 



Lancaster. — New Texas (J. J. Carter). 



J60. Carex vulpinoidea Michx. 



Frequent in moist soil. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



f61. Carex retroflexa Muhl. 



Local or frequent on moist depressions or banks. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



62. Carex scoparia Schkuhr. 



Frequent on dry barrens. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



*63. Carex bicknellii Britton. 



Occasional on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 




55 S PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



J64. JUNCUS EFFUSUS L. 



Frequent in Serpentine swamps. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



J65. Juncus tenuis Willd. 



Frequent along paths, etc., in border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



|66. Juncus secundus Beam-. 



Abundant on diy open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run (C. E. Smith); Preston Run; Mineral 

 Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



67. Juncus marginatus Rostk. 



Occasional in moist sandy soil. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



68. Juxcus aristulatus Michx. 



One specimen seen. — A coastal species scarce so far inland. 

 Delaware.— "Del Co." (Dr. Geo. Smith). 



J69. Juncus acuminatus Michx. 



Frequent in moist soil. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



70. Juncoides campestre (L.) Kuntze. 

 Frequent in dry barren open or woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



Chester. — West Chester. 



71. Chaalelerium luteum (L.) A. Gray. 



Occasional in border-woodland. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester.— Cedar Barrens (S. S. Van Pelt). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



|72. LlLIUM PHILADELPHICUM L. 



Frequent or local on edges of greenbrier thicket. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



73. Aletris farinosa L. 



Occasional on dry open barren and banks. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



J74. Vagnera racemosa (L.) Morong. 



Frequent in border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Lenni; Wawa. 



f75. Smilax herbacea crispifolia, subsp. nov. 



Stem ascending, recumbent at apex, at length slightly elongated, 

 provided with slender tendrils. Leaves ovate or oval, acute at apex, 

 trimcate or slightly cordate at base, 5-6 cm. long, firm in texture, 

 usually with crisped or wavy margins, pale-green above, slightly 

 glaucous and glabrous beneath, 7-nerved, on petioles one-quarter to 

 one- third the length of the blades. Leaves of the branches mostly 

 narrower. Umbel 15-25 flowered. Pedicels 8-10 mm. long. Pe- 

 duncle stout, in fruit exceeding the subtending leaf. Berries blue or 

 purplish-blue, glaucous, 7-8 mm. in diameter. 



Differs from S. herbacea L. in its little elongated, not freely climbing- 

 stem, in its firmer leaves, truncate at base, and in its smaller berries. 



Dry soil, southeastern Pennsylvania to Virginia. 



Type. — Serpentine, Mineral Hill, Delaware County, Penna., F. W. 

 Pennell 594, coll. Sept. 6, 1908, in Herb. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 



Common on dry open barrens and edges of greenbrier. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f76. Smilax glauca Walt. 



Common on dry open barrens, mostly about margin of greenbrier 

 thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



f77. Smilax rotuxdifolia L. 



Abundant in depressions of barrens, frequently climbing high on 

 Juniperus virginiana. 



Delaware. — FawkesRun; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — West Chester ; Sconnelltown. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f78. SlSYRIXCHIUM MUCROXATUM Michx. 



Common on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram) ; Serpentine Ridge 

 Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



$79. Gyrostachys gracilis (Bigel.) Kuntze. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Brinton's Quarry. 



80. Leptorchis loeselii (L.) MacM. 



Occasional on moist shaded banks. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



81. Populus graxdidextata Michx. 



Occasional in woodland. 

 Dela ware. — Williamson . 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



■"-to-* 



82. Salix humilis Marsh. 



Frequent or local on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



S3. Salix tristis Ait. 



Frequent or local on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



84. Comptoxia asplexifolia (L.) 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens; Wawa. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



85. CORYLUS AMERICANA Walt. 



Common on drv barren, edges of woodland and thicket. 

 Delaware. — "Cram Creek" (J. W. Harshberger) ; Lenni. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; West Chester. 



86. Alnus rugosa (Du Roi) Spreng. 



Frequent on dry edges of woodland or in Serpentine swamp. 

 Dela ware. — Middletown Barrens ; Williamson. 



J87. Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh. 



Frequent in border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



88. Quercus palustris Du Roi. 



Local in moist woodland, borderland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens. 



f89. Quercus ilicifolia Wang. 



Frequent or local on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



*90. Quercus marylandica Mench. 



Locally abundant on dry barren. 



Delaware. — Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa; 

 "Crum Creek" (J. W. Harshberger). 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



91. Quercus alba L. 

 - Frequent in border-woodland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



Chester. — Unionville. 



f92. Quercus stellata Wang. 



Abundant on dry barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.,. 



93. QUERCUS PRINUS L. 



Occasional in woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Rim. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



f94. Quercus prinoides Willd. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Williamson. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



|95. COMANDRA UMBELLATA (L.) Nlltt. 



Frequent or local on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Ban-ens. 



f96. Polygonum tenue Michx. 



Common on dry open barren, rock exposures. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens;. 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



i S i 



*97. Talinum teretifolium Pursh. 



Local on dry open barren, rock-exposures. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens;. 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 

 Lancaster. — New Texas (J. J. Carter). 



98. SlLENE STELLATA (L.) Ait. f. 



Frequent on dry edges of greenbrier and rocky places. 

 Delaware.— Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa, 

 Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



*&* 



*99. Cerastium oblongifolium Torr. [including C. arvense villosum- 

 Hollick and Britton]. 



Abundant on dry open barrens, banks and edges of greenbrier. 



In the material examined I have been unable to detect any constant 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



difference between C. arvense oblong i folium (Ton-.) Hollick and Britton 

 and C. arvense villosum Hollick and Britton [ = C. arvense velutinum 

 (Raf.) Britton]. The latter seems a condensed form of the drier 

 situations, intergrading perfectly with the normal form. On the 

 other hand, C. oblongifolium Torr with us seems quite distinct from 

 C. arvense L. Records include forms which have been passing for 

 both varieties. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown [ = " Strode' s Serpentine" (Dr. Wm. 

 Darlington) type of C. villosum]; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Lancaster. — Pleasant Grove (A. A. Heller and J. K. Small); New 

 Texas (J. J. Carter). 



*100. Arenaria stricta Michx. 



Local on dry open barren, rock exposures. 



Delaware. — "Middletown" (I. Burk)— locality likely incorrect. 



Chester. — West Chester ; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



101. Syndesmon thalictroides (L.) Hoffmg. 



Frequent in dry woodland. 



Dela ware. — Mineral Hill ; Williamson ; Wawa. 



102. Thalictrum revolutum D. C. 

 Occasional on dry open barren. 



Leaflets abundantly glandular-puberulent in the Nottingham speci- 

 mens, slightly so or nearly smooth beneath in the Delaware County 

 specimens. 



Delaware. — Williamson (B. Long); "Elwyn" (Dr. J. B. Brinton). 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



103. Sassafras sassafras (L.) Karst. 



Abundant on dry barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Brinton's Quarry. 



fl04. Arabis lyrata L. 



Common on diy open barrens, banks and depressions. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens (-), Wil- 

 liamson: Lenni; Wawa. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); Serpentine Ridge; 

 Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry; 

 Union ville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



105. Saxifraga virginiensls Michx. 



Frequent on dry open barren, banks and edges of woodland. 

 Del. — Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



fl06. Spiraea latifolia Borkh. 

 Frequent in Serpentine swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson (Dr. J. B. Brinton, Jos. Crawford). 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



107. Rubus frondosus Bigel. (?) 

 Common, especially on edge of dry barren. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



108. POTENTILLA PUMILA Poir. 



Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Blue Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugar/town Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



fl09. Sanguisorba canadensis L. 

 Frequent in rich Serpentine swamps. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run (B. H. Smith, S. S. Van Pelt) ; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



110. Rosa humilis Marsh. 



Frequent on dry open barren and margin of greenbrier. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Middletown Barrens; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



■**=•* 



111. Aronia nigra (Willd) Britton. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Wawa. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



112. Cassia nictitans L. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delawrae. — FawkesRun; Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — Unionville. 



113. Cassia chaivlecrista L. 



Local on dry open barren, banks and depressions. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



114. Baptisia tinctoria (L.) R. Br. 



Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — FawkesRun; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



J115. Crotalaria sagittalis L. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Lenni. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



116. Stylosanthes biflora (L.) B. S. P. 



Occasional on dry open barren or sandy bank. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill (I. Burk); Lenni. 



117. Meibomia paniculata (L.) Kuntze. 



Common on edges of greenbrier or on banks. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson; 

 Lenni. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Unionville. 



118. Meibomia dillenii (Darl.) Kuntze. 



Frequent on margin of thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — West Chester; Brinton's Quarry. 



119. Meibomia rigida (Ell.) Kuntze. 



Occasional on dry sandy barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson; Lenni. 



120. Meibomia marylandica (L.) Kuntze. 



Frequent or local on dry sandy barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Lenni. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



121. Meibomia obtusa (Muhl.) Vail. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 

 Delaware.— Mineral Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



122. Lespedeza repens (L.) Bart. 

 Occasional on diy sandy barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill ; Williamson. 



123. Lespedeza procumbens Michx. 



Occasional on dry sandy barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



1124. Lespedeza frutescens (L.) Britton. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Lenni. 



|125. Lespedeza yirgixica (L.) Britton. 



Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



126. Lespedeza hirta (L.) Hornem. 



Frequent on diy open barren, and margin of greenbrier. 

 Delaware. — Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Lenni. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



fl27. Lespedeza capitata Michx. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



fl28. Strophostyles umbellata (Muhl.) Britton. 

 Local, frequent on the State-line Barrens. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



129. LlXUM VIRGINIANUM L. 



Frequent in dry woodland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — Unionville. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 567 



130. Linum medium (Planch.) Britton. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Wawa. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



131. Linum floridanum (Planch.) Trel. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



132. Polygala verticillata L. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester. 



133. Polygala sanguinea L. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; Serpentine Ridge. 



134. Polygala senega L. 



One specimen seen. 



Delaware. — "Newtown" (Dr. Geo. Smith). 



135. Rhus copallina L. 



Occasional or local on dry barren. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



136. Rhus glabra L. 



Common about edges of thicket and woodland. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson School 

 (I. A. Keller). 



Chester. — Brinton's Quarry. 



137. Acer rubrum L. 



Common on dry barren, depressions and border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Brinton's Quarry. 



138. Ceanothus americanus L. 

 Common on dry barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 

 37 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Union- 

 ville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



139. Vitis aestivalis Michx. 



Frequent on margin of or in greenbrier thicket. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 



140. AsCYRUM HYPERICOIDES L. 



Local, only on State-line Barrens. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



141. Hypericum punctatum Lam. 

 Frequent on dry open barren or depressions. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill ; Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 WestChester; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



142. Sarothra gentianoides L. 

 Occasional on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens ; West Chester. 



fl43. Helianthemum majus (L.) B. S. P. 



Frequent on dry open barrens. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; AVest Chester ; Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



144. Lechea minor L. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



145. Lechea racemulosa Lam. 

 Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



146. Lechea leggetii Britton and Hollick. 

 Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



147. Viola pedata lineariloba D. C. 



Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



|148. Viola fimbriatula Sm. 



Apparently more or less intermediate between this and V. sagittate, 

 Ait., combining the pubescence of the former with the leaf-outline of 

 the latter. Apparently quite uniform, and constant in characters. 

 As neither V. fimbriatula 8m. nor V. sagittata Ait. occur, except 

 sparingly, in this district, the idea of direct or recent hybridism is 

 excluded. 



Common on dry open barren and banks. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Blue Hill; 

 Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



149. Kneiffia linearis (Michx.) Spach. 



Frequent on dry open barren and banks. 



Delaware. — " Crum Creek" (J. W. Harshberger) ; Williamson 

 (J. B. Br in ton) ; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



150. Kneiffia fruticosa (L.) Raimann. 



Frequent on dry open barren and banks. 

 Delaware.— 1 ' Media " (J. B. Brinton). 

 Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; West Chester. 



151. Zizia cordata (Walt.) D. C. 



Frequent on dry open barren and edges of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



fl52. Angelica yillosa (Walt.) B. S. P. 

 Frequent on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens (S. S. Van Pelt) ; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



J 153. Nyssa sylvatica March. 

 Occasional in woodland. 

 Delaware. — Williamson (J. W. Harshberger). 

 Chester. — Unionville. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



154. Azalea nudiflora L. 



Frequent on edges of thicket. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — West Chester. 



155. Pieris mariana (L.) Benth. and Hook. 

 On dry open barren. 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



156. Xolisma ligustrina (L.) Britton. 

 Frequent on dry barrens. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



157. Gaylussacia baccata (Wang.) C. Koch. 

 Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



158. Polycodium stamineum (L.) Greene. 



Frequent on dry barrens, eds;es of woodland or thicket. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



*■&■* 



159. Vaccinium atrococcum (Gray) Heller. 

 Frequent on eds;es of thicket or depressions. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester. 



160. Vaccinium pennsylvanicum Lam. 

 Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



161. Vaccinium vacillans Kalm. 



Common on diy open barren, borders of woodland, and in woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — West Chester ; Unionville. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



1 162. Lysimachia quadrifolia L. 



Frequent on dry border-woodland or open. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens. 



163. DlOSPYROS VIRGINIANA L. 



Occasional or local in woodland. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



fl64. Sabbatia angularis (L.) Pursh. 



Frequent on dry open barren, edges of thicket and in moist soil, 

 varying greatly in size according to habitat. 



Delaware. — Preston Run (A. Jahn); Mineral Hill (I. Burk) ; 

 Middletown Barrens ; Wawa. 



Chester. — -Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Union- 

 ville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



165. Gentiana crinita Froel. 



Local, on dry open barren. Plants dwarfed. Flowers small for 

 the species, paler blue. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



166. ASCLEPIAS PURPURASCENS L. 



Frequent or local on edge of greenbrier thicket. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



*167. ASCLEPIAS VERTICILLATA L. 



Common on diy open barren, ledges of rock, and on banks. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry; Marshallton (B. 

 Long); Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



fl68. ACERATES VIRIDIFLORA Ell. 



Local on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Lenni. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



*169. Phlox subulata L. 



Locally abundant on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run (S. S. Van Pelt); Bear 

 Hill; Mineral Hill; Middlet on Barrens. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; West Chester; 

 Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry ; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Lancaster. — Fulton Township (J. J. Carter). 



*170. Scutellaria parvula ambigua (Nutt.) Fernald 



Scarce, on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — "Serpentine on West Chester Road" (Dr. Geo. Smith; 

 "Del. Co." (C. E. Smith). 

 Chester. — West Chester. 

 Lancaster. — Fulton Township (J. J. Carter) 



1171. Prunella vulgaris I.. 



Occasional on dry open barren, or edges of woodland. 

 Dela ware. — Wawa. 

 Chester.— Cedar Barrens. 



172. Koellia flexuosa (Walt.) MacM. 



Common on dry open barren, depressions and desiccated soil. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Blue Hill; 

 .Mineral Hill ; Middletown Barrens; Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Sconnelltown ; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



173. Dasystoma pedicularia (L.) Benth. 



Occasional in dry woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill. 

 Chester . — Unionville. 



*174. Gerardia purpurea parvula, subsp. now 



Stem 1-6 dm. tall, minutely scabrous above, sparingly branched. 

 Branches spreading. Leaves linear, scabrous above, those of the 

 stem 1-3 cm. long, 1-2 mm. broad, mostly with small clusters in their 

 axils. Pedicels 3-4 mm. long. Calyx-tube campanulate, 3 mm. 

 high, its lobes narrowly lanceolate, 1-1.2 mm. long. Corolla pale 

 rose-purple, about 20 mm. long. Capsule globose, 4-5 mm. in diameter. 



Differs from Gerardia purpurea L. of the Atlantic Coastal Plain in 

 its smaller size, smaller and paler corollas, and smaller capsules. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



Serpentine Barrens of southeastern Pennsylvania. 

 Type.— Serpentine, Wawa, Delaware County, Penna., F. W. Pennell 

 2689, coll. Sept. 25, 1910, in Herb. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, 

 Locally frequent in depressions, or edges of woodland. 

 Delawa re. — Wawa . 



Chester.— Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



$175. Gerardia tenuifolia Vahl. 

 Frequent in diy border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



176. HOUSTONIA CCERULEA L. 



Common on dry to moist open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



$177. MlTCHELLA REPENS L. 



Frequent in dry border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



178. Galium pilosum Ait. 

 Frequent on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; West Chester ; Unionville. 



f-179. Galium bore ale L. 

 Along border and in greenbrier thicket on State-line Barrens. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



180. Lonicera sempervirens L. 

 Occasional in greenbrier thicket. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens (A. Jahn). 



181. Lobelia spicata Lam. 

 Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill; Blue Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



182. Hieragium venosum L. 

 Frequent in dry woodland. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Delaware. — FawkesRun; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; Unionville. 



J183. HlERACIUM GRONOVII L. 



Frequent in dry border-woodland. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



fl84. Nabaltjs serpentarius (Pursh) Hook. 



Frequent in dry woodland. 



Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; West Chester ; Unionville. 



J 185. Ambrosia artemisi^efolia L. 



Occasional on dry open barren, probably here introduced. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



186. Vernonia noveboracensis (L.) Willd.- 



Frequent on moist open or on moist banks. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



187. Vernonia glauca (L.) Willd. 



On a grassy bank. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



188. EUPATORIUM PUBESCENS Mllhl. 



Local, on dry open barren. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



189. EUPATORIUM PERFOLIATUM L. 



Frequent in moist soil, Serpentine swamps, or occasionally on 

 dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill ; Middletown Barrens ; Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 



fl90. EUPATORIUM AROMATICUM L. 



Common on diy open barren and border of woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson; 

 Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



191. Lacinaria spicata (L.) Kuntze. 



Local, on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



J192. SOLIDAGO OESIA L. 



Frequent in dry border-woodland. 

 Delaware. — Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



193. SOLIDAGO BICOLOR L. 



Common on border of woodland and in dry woodland. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; 

 Williamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester. 



194. SOLIDAGO RUGOSA Mill. 



Common on dry barren, especially about edge of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Preston Bun; Bear Hill; Middletown Barrens; Wil- 

 liamson; Lenni. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



195. Solid ago as per a Ait. 

 On dry barren. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



196. Solidago juncea Ait. 



Occasional or local on dry barren. 

 Chester. — West Chester (E. B. Bartram). 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



197. Solidago nemoralis Ait. 



Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; 

 Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



J 198. Solidago altissima L. 



Occasional on moist open. 

 Dela ware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Brinton's Quarry. 



X 199. Euthamia nuttallii Greene. 



In moist places along streams or about border of woodland. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; Unionville. 



200. Sericocarpus asteroides (L.) B. 8. P. 



Frequent in dry woodland. 



Delaware . — Waw a . 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



201. Aster uxdulatus L. 



Frequent in dry woodland or thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Middletown Barrens; 

 Williamson ; Lenni. 



202. Aster patens Ait. 



Local on dry open barren or banks. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Lenni. 



f203. Aster l.eyis L. 



Common or local on dry open barren, edges of woodland and thicket. 



Delaicare. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Bear Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry ; Unionville. 



204. Aster dtjmosus L. 



Local, on dry barren. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



205. Aster ericoides L. 



Common on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Williamson; 

 Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram); Sconnelltown ; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



*206. Aster parviceps pusillus (Gray) Fernald. 



Frequent on dry open barren or rock exposures. 



Delaware. — Middletown Barrens; Williamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brin- 

 ton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



207. Aster lateriflorus (L.) Britton. 



Common on dry open barren, edges of woodland or thicket. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Mineral Hill; Middletown 

 Barrens; Williamson; Lenni; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



20S. Antennaria neodioica Greene. 



Local on chy open barren. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



209. Axtexxaria neglecta Greene. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens ; Unionville. 



210. Antennaria plantaginifolia (L.) Richards. 



Frequent on dry open barren or in woodland. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Wawa. 



Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



211. Gnaphalium polycephalum Michx. 



Frequent on dry open barren. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Preston Run; Williamson. 



Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 



|212. Heliopsis helianthoides (L.) Sweet. 



Frequent in Serpentine swamp. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — West Chester; Brinton's Quarry. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f213. Helianthus giganteus L. 



Common in moist depressions, greenbrier thickets, or on banks. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



214. Helianthus divabicatus L. 



Local or frequent on dry open barren or banks. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



[215. SENECIO BALSAMIT.E Mllhl. 



Common on dry open barren. 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; 

 West Chester; Sconnelltown; Brinton's Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



216. Cirsium discolor (Muhl.) Spreng. 



Occasional on dry open barren or edge of thicket. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson; Lenni. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



f217. Cirsium muticum Michx. 

 Frequent in moist depression, greenbrier thicket. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



II. Occasional Species of the Conowingo Barrens, Mostly 

 Stragglers from Surrounding Flora. 



1. ASPLENIUM FILIX-FCEMINA (L.) Bernll. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



2. Dryopteris noveboracexsis (L.) A. Gray. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



3. Dryopteris marginalis (L.) A. Gray. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



4. Phegopteris hexagonoptera (Mx.) Fee. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



5. Typha latifolia L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



6. Andropogon yirgixicus L. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



7. Paspalum circulare Nash. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



8. Panicum capillare L. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



9. Panicum gattingeri Nash. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



10. Panicum virgatum L. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



11. Panicum microcarpon Muhl. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



12. Panicum lindheimeri Nash. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 



13. Panicum tennesseense Ashe. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 



14. Panicum commonsianum Ashe. 

 Delaware.— Wawa (C. S. Williamson). 



15. Panicum addisonii Nash. 

 Chester. — Brinton's Quarry. 



16. Panicularia nervata (Willd.) Kuntze. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



17. Cyperus diandrus Torr. 

 Chester. — West Chester; Unionville. 



18. Dulichium arundinaceum (L.) Britton. 

 Delaware. — W illiamson . 



19. Eleocharis palustris glaucescens (Willd.) A. Gray. 



Chester. West Chester. 



20. Scirpus cyperinus (L.) Kunth. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



21. Tradescantia virginica L. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



* 22. Salomonia commutata (R. and S.) Britton. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



23. Hypoxis hirsuta (L.) Coville. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



24. Peramium pubescens (Willd.) MacM. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



25. Achroanthes uxiFOLiA (Michx.) Raf. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



26. Carpinus caroliniana Walt. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



27. Quercus rubra L. 

 Delaware.— Williamson ; Lenni. 



28. Quercus velutina Lam. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



29. Bcehmeria cylindrica (L.) Sev. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



30. Polygonum scaxdexs L. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



31. Polygonum sagittatum L. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



32. Polygonum arifolium L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



33. Bexzoix bexzoix (L.) Coulter. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



34. Rums QCCIDENTALIS L. 

 Chester. — Unionville, yellow'Jruit. 



35. Rubus villosus Ait. 

 Delaware. — Blue Hill. 



36. Amelanchier caxadexsis (L.) Medic. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



37. Falcata comosa (L.) Kuntze. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



38. OXALIS VIOLACEA L. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



39. OXALIS STRICTA L. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



40. Euphorbia maculata L. 

 Delaware. — Wawa. 



41. Euphorbia nutans Legg. 

 Delaware. — Lenni. 



42. Euphorbia corollata L. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill ; Lenni. 



43. Rhus typhina L. 

 Delaware . — Waw a . 



44. Celastrus scandens L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



45. Impatiens biflora Walt. 

 Delaware.— Williamson. 



46. Viola palmata L. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



47. Parsonsia petiolata (L.) Rnsby. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



48. Sanicula marylandica L. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



40. Cornus alternifolia L. f. 



Chester.— 11 Willistown Barrens" (C. S. Williamson). 



50. Pyrola americana Sweet. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



51. Pyrola elliptica Nutt. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



52. Chimaphila maculata (L.) Pursh. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



53. Chimaphila umbellata (L.) Nutt. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



54. Kalmia latifolia L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



55. EpiGjEa repens L. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



56. Polycodium candicans (C. Mohr) Small. 

 Chester.— Sugartown Barrens (E. B. Bartram). 



57. Apocynum milleri Britton. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



58. Asclepias syriaca L. 

 Delaware. — Wawa. 



59. Phlox pilosa L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



60. Trichostema dichotomum L. 

 Delaware. — Wawa. 



61. Scutellaria pilosa Michx. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



62. Scutellaria integrifolia L. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



63. Cunila origanoides (L.) Britton. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 



64. Chelone glabra L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



65. Leptandra virginica (L.) Nutt. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



66. Dasystoma flava (L.) Wood. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



67. Castilleia coccinea Spreng. 

 IE- Delaware. — Williamson. 



68. Galium triflorum Michx. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



69. Galium asprellum Michx. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



70. Sambucus canadensis L. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



1. Viburnum prunifolium L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



72. Lactuca spicata (Lam.) Hitchc. 

 Delaware.— Williamson; Lenni. 



73. Nabalus albus (L.) Hook. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



74. Aster cordifolius L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



75. Aster puniceus L. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



76. Erechtites hieracifolia (L.) Raf. 

 Delaware. — Williamson . 



77. Cirsium pumilum (Nutt.) Spreng. 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 



III. Some Prominent Introduced Species. 



1. Syntherisma linearis (Kroek.) Nash. 

 Occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 



2. Anthoxanthum odoratum L. 

 Common on dry open barren. 

 Chester. — Serpentine Ridge. 



3. Eragrostis pilosa (L.) Beauv. 

 Occasional on banks, etc. 

 Delaware . — Lenni . 



4. Poa pratensis L. 

 Common on dry open barren. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens ; West Chester : Unionville. 

 3S 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



5. Festuca octoflora Walt. 



On dry sandy exposures. 

 Delaware. — Blue Hill. 



6. Stenophyllus capillaris (L.) Britton. 



Probably introduced, on railroad ballast and barren ground. 

 Delaware. — Williamson (A. MacElwee). 

 Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 



7. Arenaria serpyllifolia L. 

 On dry sandy banks. 

 Chester. — Sconnelltown. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



RECORDS OF GEORGIA AND FLORIDA ORTHOPTERA, WITH THE DESCRIP- 

 TIONS OF ONE NEW SPECIES AND ONE NEW SUBSPECIES. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The following records are based almost entirely on material belong- 

 ing to the collection of the State of Georgia contained in the State 

 House at Atlanta. This series was submitted to us for examination 

 through the kind services of Mr. J. Chester Bradley, of Cornell Univer- 

 sity, who collected a large proportion of the specimens. Where no 

 collection is indicated in the following pages the material belongs to the 

 State series, and unless otherwise stated the localities given are in 

 Georgia. A considerable proportion of the species here treated are 

 recorded for the first time from Georgia or Florida, while our knowl- 

 edge of several of the species has until this date rested on but one 

 or two records. 



The new Choriopiutga is a rather widely distributed form in the 

 Gulf region, while the new Nemobius is apparently a localized type. 



DERM AFTER A. 

 LABIIDiE. 

 Labia minor (Linna?us). 



Atlanta, September 19, 1908. One male. 



This species has been recorded from Thomasville. 1 



Labia burgessii Scudder. 



Brunswick, April 8. One male. 



The United States records for this species, aside from one from 

 Massachusetts no doubt due to accidental introduction, are all from 

 southern and eastern Georgia and Florida and central Alabama. 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



St. Simon's Island, September 8, 1904. One female. Tybee 

 Island, June 30 (Dr. D. M. Castle.) One male, one female. 



The only previous record of the species from Georgia was from 

 Thomasville. 



ORTHOPTERA. 

 BLATTIDJE. 

 Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens Sauss. & Zehntn. 

 Fernandina. Fla. One male. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Ischnoptera borealis Brunner. 



Fernandina, Fla. Two males. 



Ischnoptera bolliana Sauss. & Zehntn. 



Brunswick. One male. 



Atlanta, July 6, 1909. One female. 



Blattella germanica (Linnaeus). 



Brunswick. One female. 



Blatta orientalis Linnaeus. 



Atlanta, July 25, 1908. One female. 



Periplaneta americana (Linnseus). 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Three males, 

 one female. 



Jacksonville, Fla., September 11. Two females. 



Periplaneta brunnea Burmeister. 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male, two 

 females. 



Jacksonville, Fla., September 11. One female. 



This species has previously been reported from Jacksonville and 

 Thomasville, Ga., as well as Victoria, Tex. 



Chorisoneura plocea Rehn. 



Marietta, June 7, 1909. One female. 



This is but the second specimen known of this species which was' 

 originally described from the coast of South Carolina. The pronotum 

 of the Marietta specimen has a meso-caudal patch and a pair of 

 subarcuate lateral bars of dark brown. 



Cryptocercus punctulatus Scudder. 



Rome, August 31. One female. 



Clayton, August 18. One male. 



These are the first records of the species fiom Georgia. The locali- 

 ties show that the species is essentially one of the Appalachian region, 

 as far as its range east of the Sierra Nevada is concerned. 



MANTID^J. 



Stagmomantis Carolina (Johannson). 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1902. (J. C. Bradley.) Two immature 

 individuals. 

 Tallapoosa, July 24, 1908. One immature individual. 



Thesprotia graminis (Scudder). 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One adult male. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



PHASMID^. 

 Diapheromera femorata (Say). 

 Jasper. October 31, 1907. One female. 



This is the most southern exact record known for the species, and 

 on comparison with Pennsylvania material no difference is noticed. 

 A female specimen from Greenville, South Carolina, has also been 

 examined. 



ACRIDITY. 

 Aorydium arenosum (Burmeister). 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Three males. 



Neotettix femoratus Scudder. 



Chester, May 26, 1904. One female. 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Two males. 



All three specimens are short-winged. 



Paxilla obesa (Scudder). 



Gardi, Wayne County, April 7, 1902. Two females. 

 This is the first definite Georgia record for the species, which was 

 originally described from that State without specified exact locality. 



Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 



Chester, May 26 and June 2, 1904. Two females. 

 Truxalis brevicornis (Johannson). 



Atlanta, August 14, 1909. One male. 



Rome, August 31. One male. 



Toccoa, August 15. One male, one female. 



Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



Dalton, August 29. One male. 



Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



Albany, March 28. One male. 



Orphulella olivacea (Morse). 



St. Simon's Island, September 8 and 9, 1909. Two females. 



One of these specimens is extremely large when compared with 

 individuals from Connecticut or New Jersey, measuring as follows: 

 length of body. 28.5 mm.; length of pronotum, 5.2; length of tegmen, 

 25; length of caudal femur, 17.5. The other individual is similar 

 to the normal size of the species as exemplified by topotypic material 

 from the two above-mentioned States. 

 Orphulella pelidna (Burmeister). 



Waynesville. Three males, six females. 



Tallulah Falls, August 3, 1909. One female. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Chester, May 30 to June 16, 1904. Two males, one female. 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Two females. 



St. Simon's Island, September 8-9, 1909. Two males. 

 Biohromorpha viridis (Soudder). 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1908. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 11. (J. C. Bradley.) One male, 

 four females. 



Waynesville. One female. 



Two of the females from the Okefenokee Swamp are macropterous, 

 the other specimens being of the more usual brachypterous type. 



This species has been recorded from Savannah, Tybee Island, 

 Thomasville, Waycross and West Point, Ga. 



Clinocephalus elegans pulcher (Rehn and Hebard). 



St. Simon's Island, September 8, 1909. One male. 

 This specimen greatly resembles individuals of the same sex from 

 Cedai Keys, Fla. 



Arphia granulata Sau*sure. 



Waynesville. Two males, one female. 



This is the second record for the species from Georgia, the first 

 being from Thomasville. 

 Arphia xanthoptera (Burm.). 



Austell, September 6. Two males. 



The only previous Georgia records are from Sand Mountain. 

 Thomasville and Waycross. 



Arphia sulphurea (Fabr.). 



Brunswick, April 6, 1902. One male, one female. 



The previous exact Georgia records are from Sand Mountain, Jas- 

 per and Thomasville. 



Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 



Toccoa, August 15. One male. 



Dalton, August 29. One female. 



Atlanta, July 31, 1909. One female. 



Halls, June 7, 1906. One female. 



Austell, September 6. One male. 



Marshallville, May 5, 1902. One female. 



The Halls and Marshallville specimens are in the green phase. 

 Marshallville is the most southern locality from which we have seen 

 true viridifasciata, all the other references from localities to the south- 

 ward prove, as far as we have been able to examine them, to belong 

 to the following species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 589 



Chortophaga australior n. sp. 



1905. 1 Chortophaga viridijasciata Rehn and Hebard (not of DeGeer), Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 786. [Thomas ville, Ga.] 



1905. Chortophaga. viridijasciata Rehn and Hebard (not of DeGeer), ibid., 

 1905, p. 38. [Miami, Chokoloskee and Key West, Fla.] 



1907. Encoptolophus costalis Rehn and Hebard (not of Scudder), ibid., 

 1907, pp. 289, 290. [Ocklockonee River and Thomasville, Ga.; Cho- 

 koloskee, Miami, Cedar Keys, Gainesville, Pablo Beach and Jackson- 

 ville, Fla,] 



Types: & and 9 ; Thomasville, Thomas County, Ga. December 

 10, 1902. (Morgan Hebard.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



This species is closer related to C. cubensis than to C. viridijasciata 

 and C. mcridionalis, differing from cubensis in the following particulars: 

 the male sex has the fastigium less excavate, the eyes less prominent, 

 the caudal portion of the disk of the prozona less bullate and the 

 median carina of the pronotum more uniformly elevated and less 

 broadly severed: the female has the median carina of the pronotum 

 more arcuate and very narrowly severed, the caudal femora slenderer 

 and the form more compressed (in this respect resembling viridi- 

 jasciata). 



From C. viridijasciata the new form differs in the less strongly 

 keel-like median carina of the pronotum, in the less acute angle of 

 the caudal margin of the pronotum, in the broader fastigium and in 

 the markedly different color pattern, which is essentially that of 

 C. cubensis. 



Size medium; form moderately compressed. Head with the 

 occiput moderately arcuate; fastigium considerably declivent, acute- 

 angulate cephalad, the very narrow apex passing into the frontal 

 costa, the male having the cephalic angle much sharper and the 

 fastigial width much less than in the female, the latter with the width 

 slightly more than the length, disk slightly excavated; lateral foveolse 

 trigonal, not excavate; facial outline nearly straight (cT) or slightly 

 arcuate ( 9 ), subangulate with the fastigium in the male, rounded 

 in the female; frontal costa rather narrow, considerably constricted 

 dorsad of the insertion of the antennae, slightly so ventrad of the same, 

 moderately expanding toward the clypeal suture, sulcate for a dis- 

 tance ventrad of the ocellus, punctate dorsad; eyes rather prominent 

 in the male, hardly so in the female, reniform-ovate in shape, the 

 length subequal to ( 9 ) or slightly exceeding (cT) that of the infra- 



1 Probably the following refer to tins species: 



1904. Chortophaga viridijasciata Morse, Publ. No. 18, Carneg. Inst, Wash., 

 p. 33. (Part.) 



1905. Chortophaga viridijasciata Caudell, Ent, News, XVI, p. 217. [Kev 

 West and Palm Beach, Fla.] 




590 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Fig. 1. — Chortophaga 

 australior n.sp. La- 

 teral outline of head 

 and pronotum of fe- 

 male type. (X2.) 



ocular sulcus; antennae subdepressed, the apex more so than the proxi- 

 mal and median portions and very slightly expanded. Pronotum 



with the median carina considerably elevated, 

 subcristate, not or slightly arcuate cephalo- 

 caudad, the intersection of the principal sulcus 

 being very appreciable, though not deeply 

 severing the crest; lateral carinac irregular, 

 composed chiefly of tubercles, broken mesad; 

 cephalic margin of the disk obtuse-angulate, 

 caudal margin of the disk rectangulate to 

 slightly acute-angulate; lateral lobes with the 

 greatest depth about equal to the greatest 

 length. Tegmina surpassing the tips of the 

 caudal femora by about the length of the head, rather broad, obliquely 

 rotundato-truncate at the apex; intercalary vein proximad very close 

 to the ulnar vein, mesad equidistant from the ulnar and median veins. 

 Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subquadrate in the male, 

 slightly transverse in the female; metasternal lobes with an extremely 

 narrow interspace in the male, the interspace subquadrate in the 

 female. Caudal femora more robust in the female than in the male, 

 the greatest width contained three and one-half times in the length in 

 the male, three times in the female. 



Green Phase. — Head, pronotum, pleura, caudal femora, a longitudinal 

 bar on the medio-proximal portion of the tegmina, a 

 median, and a costal premedian patch on the same 

 apple-green ; remainder of tegmina and venter 

 brownish, the venter inclined toward raw umber, 

 the sutural half of the tegmina mars-brown with a 

 pattern of obsolete darker maculations, blending 

 into the clove-brown areas on the costal half of the 

 tegmina. Dorsum of the caudal femora marked 

 with median, premedian and preapical patches of 

 clove-brown, the median the largest and triangular 

 in shape, the markings being placed in juxtaposition 

 to clove-brown areas on the tegmina; ventral faces 

 of the caudal femora black with two whitish bands, 

 one median and the other preapical, genicular region 

 clove-brown; caudal tibiae glaucous, the genicular 

 extremity clove-brown with a patellar spot of pale greenish and a 

 broad complete yellowish-white annulus, spines yellowish with black 

 tips; caudal tarsi pale ochraceous. Caudal margin of pronotal disk 



Fig. 2 — Chor- 

 tophaga aus- 

 tralior n. sp. 

 Dorsal outline 

 of head and 

 pronotum of 

 female tvpe. 

 (X 2.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



with a number of ill-defined dark blotches. Eyes umber, irregularly 

 divided into two shades; antennae mars-brown. Wings with the disk 

 yellow. 



Brown Phase. — Similar to the green phase except that the green of 

 the latter is replaced with clay color, ochraceous or ochraceous-buff, 

 much marked with clove-brown on the head, pronotum and pleura, 

 and usually with a more or less distinct paler decussate pattern on 

 the dorsum of the pronotum, the lateral lobes of the pronotum more 

 r less striate cephalo-caudad with dark color. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 18 mm. 24.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.5 " 6 



Greatest width of pronotum (disk) 3 4 



Length of tegmen 18 " 21.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 12 " 13.8 " 



Considerably over a hundred specimens of this species have been 

 examined by us in the past few years and the species shares the charac- 

 ters of Chortophaga and Encoptolophus to such an extent that the above 

 synonym can be explained on that ground. It appears that the 

 species replaces C. viridifasciata in at least the extreme southeastern 

 part of the country ranging as far as known from Thomasville and 

 Waynesville, Ga., south to Apalachicola, Miami, Chokoloskee and 

 Key West. Its range probably meets that of C. viridifasciata in south- 

 central Georgia as we have seen the latter from Marshallville in that 

 region. No doubt the references to C. viridifasciata from the region 

 frequented by the new form will on the examination of the material 

 prove to belong to australior. The species is known to us from the 

 following material : 



St. Simon's Island, Ga. September 9, 1909. Six males, seven 

 females. (Coll. State of Georgia.) 



Brunswick, Ga. April 6. Two females. (Coll. State of Georgia.) 



Waynesville, Ga. Five males, two females. (Coll. State of Georgia.) 



Thomasville, Ga. Ninety-two specimens (Hebard and Rehn). 

 (A. N. S. P. and Hebard Coll.) 



Bainbridge, Ga. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Six males, 

 four females. (Coll. State of Georgia.) 



Apalachicola, Fla, July 21-23, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One 

 male, one female. (Coll. State of Georgia.) 



Femandina, Fla. September 12. One male. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Pablo Beach, Fla. August 11 and 12, 1905. (Hebard and Rehn.) 

 Three males, four females. (A. X. S. P. and Hebard Coll.) 



Jacksonville, Fla. August 11. 1905. (Hebard and Rehn.) One 

 female. (Hebard Coll.) 



Gainesville. Fla. August 17. 1905. (Hebard and Rehn.) One 

 male. (Hebard Coll.) 



Cedar Keys, Fla. August 15, 1905. (Hebard and Rehn.) One 

 male. (Hebard Coll.) 



Tampa. Fla. January 16 and 17. 1904. (Hebard.) Three speci- 

 mens. (Hebard Coll.) 



Chokoloskee, Fla. lour specimens. (A. X. S. P. and Hebard Coll.) 



Miami, Fla. January, February, July. Key West. Fla. January 

 18 and 19. 1904. (Hebard.) Thirty specimens. (A. X. S. P. and 

 Hebard Coll.) 



Individual variation in size is considerable in the species, this being 

 equally noticeable in both sexes. Numerous slight modifications of 

 the distribution, shape and intensity of the maculations are to be 

 found in any considerable series and occasionally a green individual 

 will exhibit a rusty red suffusion on the dorsum of the head and 

 pronotum. 



Hippisous phcenicopterus (Burm.). 



Tallulah Falls. June 19-25, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Two males. 



Cornelia. July 17. 190'). One female. 



Chickamauga, Ga. June 24-26, 189S. (H. L. Viereck.) Two 

 females. (A. X. S. Phila.) 



Chester. June 2 and 14. 1909. One male, one female. 



This species has previously been recorded from five localities 

 in northern Georgia (Trenton. Sand Mountain. Jasper, Bolton and 

 Stone Mountain) and one in the extreme southern portion (Thomas- 

 ville). 



Hippiscus rugosus (Scudder). 



Dalton. August 29. Xine males, three females. 

 Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Six females. 

 The wings of these specimens are yellow or some shade of red. 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus). 



Austell. September 6. Two females. 



Pomona. June 3 and 18, 1907. One male, one female. 



Chester. June 2, 1904. One male. 



Spharagemon bolli Scudder. 



Tallulah Falls. June 19-August S, 1909. Two males, one 

 female. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



Spharagemon cristatum Scudder. 



Albany. May 6, 1902. One male. 



This is the only Georgian record of the species, which is apparently 

 rare east of the Mississippi. The only previous records from the 

 southeastern States are from Dingo Bluffs, N. C, and Tallahassee, Fla. 

 Spharagemon collare wyomingianum (Thomas). 



Fernandina, Fla. One female. 



The only previous record of this species from Florida is from Gaines- 

 ville. 



Scirtetica piota (Scudder). 



Chester. June 2, 1904. One male. 



Albany. March 28 and May 6. One male, one female. 



Lanark, Fla. July 20, 1909. One male. 



These are the first specific references of the occurrence of the species 

 in Georgia. 

 Psinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



St. Simon's Island. September 9, 1909. Eleven males, two 

 females. 



Waynesville. One male. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



Brunswick. September. One male. (A. N. S. P.) 



Fernandina, Fla. September 12. One female. 



The only previous Georgia records were from Tybee Island and 

 Thomasville. 

 Trimerotropis citrina Scudder. 



St. Simon's Island. September 9, 1909. One male, one female. 



Waycross. September 10, 1909. One female. 



Austell. September 6. One male, one female. 



Chester. May 30- June 14, 1904. One male, six females. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male, one 

 female. 



Apalachicola, Fla. July 21-23, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



The Waycross and Austell specimens are distinctly suffused with 

 pale pinkish-red, while the remaining specimens are grayish or very 

 pale ochraceous, the tegminal maculations occurring more or less 

 distinctly in all the individuals. 



The previous Georgia records for this species were from Tybee 

 Island, Thomasville, Metcalfe, Marietta, Stone Mountain and Trenton. 



Trimerotropis saxatilis McNeill. 



Stone Mountain. July 11, 1909. Two males. 



This most interesting saxicolous species has been recorded from 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



but two localities in the eastern States — Stone Mountain and Sand 

 Mountain, Ga., where Morse 2 found it frequenting the weathered 

 surfaces of rocky bdges. 



The two specimens before us are blackish in general color with the 

 paler maculations of the ventral half of body and of the limbs very 

 decided, the usual pale tegminal markings very dull, poorly contrasted 

 and brownish in color. 



Dictyophorus guttatus (Stoll). 



Apalachicola, Fla. July 21-23, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Three 

 males, two females. 



One male and both of the females belong to the melanistic phase 

 of the species. 



Leptysma marginicollis (Serville). 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 11. One male. 



Fernandina, Fla. April 8. 



The Okefenokee male is somewhat smaller than a male from Miami. 

 Fla., being about equal in size to specimens of the same sex from 

 Raleigh, N. C. 



Schistocerca obscura (Fabricius). 



St. Simon's Island, Ga. September 8, 1909. Three males, one 

 female. 



Fernandina, Fla. September 12. One female. 



These specimens agree fully with material from Gainesville and 

 Pablo Beach, Fla. 



Schistocerca americana (Drury). 



Atlanta, July 16, 1905. One male. 



Waynesville. One male. 



Tallulah Falls. June 19-25, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



Schistocerca damnifica (Saussure). 



Atlanta. April 12. Four males, one female. 

 Chester. April 8, 1904. One male. 

 Albany. March 28, 1902. One male. 

 Waynesville. One female. 

 Brunswick. April 6, 1902. One male. 



The Brunswick individual possesses quite long wings, these measur- 

 ing 25 mm. in length to the body's 26.5 mm. 



Eotettix pusillus Morse. 



Thomasville. December 3, 1903. Two females. (Morgan 

 Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



3 Publ. No. 18, Cameg. Inst., Wash., pp. 15 and 37. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



These specimens are perfectly typical of this species, previously 

 known onry from Waycross, Ga., and Denmark, S. C. 

 Melanoplus propinquus Scudder. 



St. Simon's Island. September 8-9, 1909. Two males. 



Chester. June 14, 1904. One male, one female. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One female. 



Paroxya atlantica Scudder. 



St. Simon's Island. September 8-9, 1909. One male, three 

 females. 

 Paroxya floridiana (Thomas). • 



Apalachicola, Fla. July 21-23, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One 

 female. 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 11. Four males, seven females. 



These specimens are very similar in size to individuals from Pablo 

 Beach, Fla. 



TETTIGONID^]. 



Amblycorypha uhleri Stal. 



Toccoa. August 15. Two males. 



Tallapoosa. July 24, 1908. One male. 



This species has previously been recorded from "Georgia" and 

 Thomasville and Thompson's Mills, Ga. 



Microcentrum rhombifolium (Saussure). 



Atlanta. September 7, 1907. One male. 



Microcentrum retinerve (Burmeister). 



Austell. September 6. Three males. 



This species is here for the first time recorded with exact data from 

 Georgia. 



Orchelimum militare Rehn and Hebard. 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 11-16. Two males, three females. 

 This species was described from Gainesville, Fla., and is known to 

 range to extreme southern North Carolina. 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister). 



Waynesville. One male. 



This specimen has the reddish head seen in numerous specimens 

 of the species. The only previous records from the State with exact 

 locality were from Thomasville and Thompson's Mills. 



Orchelimum volantum McNeill. 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 10. One female. 



This specimen has previously been recorded only from Illinois. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Indiana and extreme southern Ontario. When compared with a 

 female from Point Pelee, Ontario, the Okefenokee individual, while 

 slightly larger, is seen to be identical with the exception of the slightly 

 narrower ovipositoi . 

 Neoconocephalus retusus (Scudder). 



Way cross. September 10, 1909. Four males, two females. 



Conocephalus fasciatus (De Geer). 



Okefenokee Swamp. September 11. ( me female. 



This locality and Thomasville are the only Georgia localities from 

 which the species has been recorded. 



Atlanticus dorsalis (Burm.). 

 Tallulah Falls, June 19-25, 1909. One female. 

 This is the only Georgia record for the species. 



GRYLLID^E. 



Tridactylus apicalis Say. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J.C.Bradley.) Three specimens 



This is the first exact record for the species from Georgia. 

 Tridaotylus terminalis Uhler. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Two specimens. 



This species has previously been recorded from Thomasville by the 

 authors. 



Nemobius fasciatus socius 5 (Scudder). 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male, one 

 female. 

 Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



The only previous record of the occurrence of this species in Georgia 

 Avas of its capture at Thomasville. 

 Nemobius aterrimus Scudder. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) Two males. 



The only previous records of this species were from Jacksonville 

 (type locality) and Tampa, Fla. 



Nemobius cubensis Saussure. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male, one 

 female. 



The only previous exact Georgia record of this species was of its 

 occurrence at Thomasville. 



3 The record of N. maculatus from Thomasville, Ga., made by the present 

 authors (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 799) is erroneous, as the specimens 

 are brachypterous individuals of the present species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



Nemobius palustris aurantius n. subsp. 



1905. Nemobius Carolina* Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1904, p. 801. (Not of Scudder, 1877.) 



Types; o 1 and 9 ; Thomasville, Thomas County, Georgia. De- 

 cember 6. 1908. (In sphagnum swamp; M. Hebard.) [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



This form shows no constant structural difference to separate it 

 from the more northern palustris, but a series of fourteen individuals 

 of both sexes all agree in being most strikingly colored, quite distinct 

 in this respect from true palustris. The new form has the head and 

 pronotum ochraceous-rufous, the limbs almost uniform ochraceous 

 and the tegmina shining black or brownish-black. The contrasting 

 coloration is quite distinctive and varies but little in tone in the 

 series. At the present time it seems best to regard aurantius as a 

 form of palustris, although it may at some future date be shown to be 

 worthy of specific rank. 



The types measure as follows : 



<f 9 



Length of body 6.5 mm. 7 mm. 



Length of pronotum 1.2 " 1.5 " 



Length of teamen 3.8 " 3.2 " 



Length of cauda^ femur 4.2 " 4.8 " 



Length of ovipositor 3.5 " 



Gryllus firmus Scudder. 



St. Simon's Island. September 8-9, 1909. Four males, three 

 females. 



This is the only Georgia record with exact data for the species. 



Gryllus rubens Scudder. 



Chester. April 7-8, 1904. One male, one female, one nymph. 



Dalton. August 26. One male. 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One male. 



The only previous Georgia record of this species was from Thomas- 

 ville. 

 Miogryllus saussurei (Scudder). 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One female. 

 This species has been recorded from Roswell, Ga., and "Georgia" 

 without exact locality. 



(Ecanthus angustipennis Fitch. 



Toccoa. August 15. One male. 



The only previous Georgia record of this species is from Thompson's 

 Mills (Allard). 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. 



(Ecanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmiiller. 



Chester. June 14, 1904. One male, two females. 

 Atlanta. July 3, 1909. One male, one female. 

 This species has been recorded from Thompson's Mills and Thomas- 

 ville, Ga. 



Cyrtoxipha Columbiana Caudell. 



Bainbridge, July 15-27, 1909. One male, one female. 



The only previous Georgia record of this species is of its occurrence 

 at Thompson's Mills. 

 Phylloscyrtus pulchellus (Uhler). 



Bainbridge. July 15-27, 1909. (J. C. Bradley.) One female. 



Toccoa. August 15. Five males, five females, two immature 

 specimens. 



The only previous exact record of this species in Georgia was of its 

 occurrence at Thompson's Mills. 






1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



LITTLE KNOWN NEW JERSEY FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The following notes on rare or neglected fishes from New Jersey, 

 are based on material now in the Academy, unless otherwise stated. 

 I have also mentioned some others to show interesting associations. 

 Alopias vulpes (Gmelin). 



One was reported taken off Atlantic City on May 14, said to have 

 been 15 feet long. Not in the Academy. 



Eulamia obscura (Le Sueur). 



I examined the jaws of an example, now in the New Jersey State 

 Museum and evidently this species, taken at Perth Amboy in 1850, 

 submitted to me by Mr. S. R. Morse. 



Squatina squatina (Linnaeus). 



The first record of this fish is in 1847, from Delaware Bay, 1 and an 

 old dried skin in the collection of the Academy, without data, is 

 very likely the original specimen. It has also been recorded from 

 Atlantic City. 2 



Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). 



One taken at Barnegat in August by Mr. R. B. Farley proves to 

 be this species. 



Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



A large example was taken, in a net, in the Delaware River at 

 Beverly late in August. Not in the Academy. 



Tarpon atlanticus (Valenciennes). 



The first record for this species is by Baird, who says, in 1874, it 

 has "been noted as occurring more or less frequently along the coast 

 of New Jersey." 3 An example, said to have weighed 120 poinds, was 

 reported from Seabright later, 4 and the same record says "several 

 reported between Cape May and Fire Island in the past ten years." 



1 Squatina dumerili, in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1847, p. 246. 



2 Squatina angelus Gaskill, Forest and Stream, XXXVI, August 13, 1891, 



68. 



3 Megalops thrissoides Baird, Forest and Stream, III, July 30, 1874, p. 338. 



4 Forest and Stream, XXV, August 20, 1885, p. 70. 



39 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Other records 5 refer to one taken in a pound at Stone Harbor said to 



have been 3^ feet long, and one in a net at Atlantic City about the 



same time, estimated to have weighed 100 pounds. Not in the 



Academy. 



Albula vulpes (Linnseus). 



Reported in the New York market, where it was said to have been 

 brought from New Jersey. 6 Not in the Academy. 



Though the alewives are very abundant fishes, I have secured but 

 few of Pomolobus mediocris, where I found a number at Seaside Park 

 on July 28, 1909 I have a small example of P. aestivalis from Jersej' - 

 City, taken in May, 1909, by Mr. T. D. Keim. 

 Leptooephalus conger (Linnaeus). 



A small example was taken at Ocean City during the past summer 

 by Mr. D. McCadden. 



Feliohthys marinus (Mitchill). 



In 1884 many were said to have been reported from the Mullica 

 River. 7 A "salt water catfish" is also reported by Hulit from 

 Asbury Park. 8 Not in the Academy. 

 Ameiums natalis prosthistius (Cope). 



Mr. J. F. Street se .aired an example in the Rancocas Creek at 

 New Lisbon, in Burlington County, on September 11, which is the 

 first instance of its occurrence in the Delaware River valley. He also 

 found some very dark examples of Abramis crysoleucas at the same 

 time, though they were not preserved. 

 Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and the writer found this species in some numbers 

 in the salt ponds at Corson's Inlet, on April 3, associated with F. het- 

 eroclitus macrolepidotus, Cyprinodon variegatus and Gasterosteus acu- 

 leatus. They were usually found with the killies, though prawns and 

 pursy minnows were occasionally their only companions. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



I found this little fish abundant with F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus 

 at Manasquan Inlet on July 19, also associated with Anguilla chrisypa, 

 Cyprinodon variegatus and Menidia beryllina cerea. 



Gambusia gracilis Heckel. 



I again found this species common in the streams about Cape May, 



8 Forest and Stream, XLVII, Julv 11, 1S96, p. 31. 



6 L. c, XI, October 10, 1878, p. 208. 



7 L. c, XXIV, August 14, 1884, p. 50. 

 8 L. c, LI, August 27, 1898, p. 169. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



such as Pond and New England Creeks, though only few were met 

 with in Coxe's Hall Creek, on October 24, 1909. The latter is the 

 most northern stream in which I have yet noted it. In Fishing Creek 

 it was not found, though Abramis crysoleucas, Umbra pygmcea, Aphre- 

 doderus sayanus, Enneacanthus obesus and Eupomotis gibbosus were 

 common. 



Exocoetus volitans Linnaeus. 



Dr. H. Tucker found 2 examples on the beach at Cape May City 

 during the past August. Though these specimens were in bad condi- 

 tion and not preserved, Dr. Tucker is ceitain of their identity with 

 Atlantic specimens in the collection. 

 Fistularia tabacaria Linnaeus. 



A small example was taken September 3, at Ocean City, by Mr. D. 

 .McCadden, with numbers of Fundulus majalis, Menidia menidia 

 notata, Mugil curema. Hippocampus hudsonius, Trachinotus carolinus, 

 Orthopristis ckrysopterus, Stenotomus chrysops, Menticirrhus saxatilis, 

 Spheroidcs maculatus, Prionolus evolans strigatus and Opsanus tau. 

 Seriola zonata, Tautogolabrus adspersus, Tauloga onitis, Paralichthys 

 dentatus, Achirus fasciatus and Echeneis naucrates were also taken 

 at the same place. 



Albacora thynnus (Linnaeus). 



A small example was secured at Sea Isle City on August 8 by 

 Mr. W. J. Fox. 



Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus. 



Two early records for this species are one from "New Jersey" by 

 Dr. Morris Beasley 9 and another from Egg Harbor by Dr. S. Ashurst. 10 

 Though I have not found either example in the collection of the 

 Academy, there are a number of other New Jersey specimens. 



Kachycentron canadus (Linnaeus). 



A small example was angled at Ocean City on September 13 and 

 was secured by Mr. McCadden. 



Coryphsena hippurus Linnaeus. 



Four small examples were secured by Mr. Frank Erricson in his 

 pounds at Sea Isle City on August 27, and two of these w r ere received 

 at the Academy through Mr. W. J. Fox. 



C. equiselis Linnaeus. 



This species is virtually recorded 11 from off Sandy Hook in 1S75, 



9 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1842, p. 200, in donations to the museum. 



10 L. c, 1867, p. 246. 



11 Lampugus punctulatus in Forest and Stream, V, September 16, 1875, pp. 

 83 and 85. 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



though several writers have since stated it has not been recorded 

 from the United States coast. Not in the Academy. 

 Lobotes surinamensis (Bloch). 



An example 23 inches long was taken at Sea Isle City in Mr. Frank 

 Erricson's pounds on June 23, 1910, and received through Mr. W. J. 

 Fox. 



Balistes carolinensis Gmelin. 



Mr. F. J. Keeley secured a large example in Great Egg Harbor Bay 

 on September 18. 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Walbaum). 



I saw a number of examples taken at Corson's Inlet, on April 3, 

 one of which was at least 16 inches long, which is quite large. Mr. D. 

 McCadden secured 2 examples at Ocean City on September 3. 



Astrosoopus guttatus Abbott. 



One was secured at Sea Isle Citv on June 8 and another on June 21, 

 from Mr. Erricson's pounds, through Mr. W. J. Fox. 



Urophycis regius (Walbaum). 



Mr. Fox secured 2 examples at Sea Isle City on April 24. 



On November 2, 1909, Mr. B. W. Griffiths and the writer secured 

 some interesting fishes in the Maurice River basin near Elmer, such 

 as Notropis chalybceus, Schilbeodes gyrinus, Esox reticulatus, Mesogon- 

 istius chcetodon, Umbra pygmcea, Erimyzon sucelta oblongus and a num- 

 ber of prawns. 



On September 25, 1910, I visited Lake Hopatcong and secured the 

 following in Hurd Cove, near the upper end of the lake: Abramis 

 crysoleucas, Catostomus commersonnii, Erimyzon sucelta oblongus, 

 Ameiurus nebulosus, Schilbeodes gyrinus, Esox americanus, Umbra 

 pygmcea, Pomoxis sparoides, Acantharchus pomotis, Enneacanthus 

 gloriosus, Lepomis auritus, Eupomotis gibbosus, Micropterus dolomieu, 

 and Stizostedion vitreum. As some of these are distinctly lowland 

 fishes, it is interesting to note them at such a high altitude. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



NOTES ON CHIM-EROID AND GANOID FISHES. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The material mentioned in this paper is contained in the museum 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, unless other- 

 wise stated. 



CHIMiERID^J. 



Chimaera novae-zealandiae nom. nov. 



For C. monstrosa var. australis Hector, Trans. N. Zeal. Inst., XXXIV, 1901 

 (1902), p. 239, PI. 14, fig. 3, preoccupied by C. australis Shaw, Gen. 

 Zool., V, 1804, p. 36S, Pis. 158, a synonym of Callorynchus. 



Of this family only two species are represented in our collection, 

 C. monstrosa (L.) from Italy, and Hydrolagus colliei (Lay and Bennett) 

 from Pacific Grove, Cal., and Alaska. I wish to call attention to the 

 name Chimcera neglecta Ogilby, in Appendix A, Rep. Com. F. N. S. 

 Wales, 1887 (1888), p. 23, which is preoccupied by C. neglecta Egerton, 

 Proc. Geol. Soc. London, IV, 1843, p. 153, for a fossil species. According 

 to Dr. Waite, C. neglecta Ogilby is thought to be identical with Hydro- 

 lagus colliei (Lay and Bennett), and had best be regarded as such, 

 unless found to the contrary, though so far as I am aware this is its 

 only occurrence in the Australian seas. If different, it requires a new 

 specific name. 



AOIPENSERID^]. 

 Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



Mediterranean 5, also 3 more dried; Adige, Italy 2; N. Am. 1; Del. 

 R. 1 and 1 dry; Riverton 1; Washington Park 1; scute from Sea 

 Girt, X. J.; skin from Castle Hill Beach, R. I.; Potomac R. 1; dry 

 head without data. Also adult mounted, in Pa. F. Com. Coll. 



Acipenser necoarii Bonaparte. 



Faun. Ital., Pesc. Ill, pt. 2, XVI, XVII, 1836, descr. {A. nacari B., I.e., 

 PI. fig. 2). Adriatic. 



Nos. 624 and 625, A. N. S. P., cotypes. 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Aoipenser brevirostrum Le Sueur. PI. XXXVIII, fig. 1. 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, Phila., I, 1818, p. 290. River Delaware. 

 No. 16,953, A. N. S. P. Type(?). 



This example, which I have only recently located in the collection, 

 has been noted by Ryder, with whose remarks I agree. The original 

 number is, however, painted on the side in black paint and not in 

 white. The old Bonaparte Catalogue is still extant, but the number 

 on this specimen does not refer to a sturgeon. I figure this interest- 

 ing example on account of its historical interest and rarity, as I 

 have found no authentic American figures except Ryder's photo- 

 graphs. Two other examples were examined, from Bayport, Fla., 

 and Delaware Bay at Green Creek, in Cape May County, N. J. 



Scapb.yrhyncb.ops platorynchus (Rafinesque). 



N. Am. 3; no data 3 and 1 dry; Bridger Pass Expedition, in 1S56, 

 1; Kansas 1; Gulf of Mexico 1. 



Parascaphyrhynchus albus Forbes and Richardson. 



A single example 503 mm. long from "North America" (Smiths. 

 Inst.. No. 3) is interesting as having been obtained long before this 

 rare species was described. 



POLYODONTID^S. 

 Polyodon spathula (Walbaum). 



Kiskiminitas R., Pa.. 1 : New Orleans, La., 1 ; East. U. S. 1. Besides 

 1 dried example from Ohio R. and 2 dry heads. Mounted adult in 

 Pa. Fish Com. Coll. 



LEPISOSTEID^3. 



The living members of this family have long been allowed to fall 

 into a single genus, comprising only four American species. The mate- 

 rial studied in the collection of the Academy shows at least twelve 

 species, most of which were pointed out by Cope in 1865. I feel 

 obliged to admit two genera, as in the Lepisosteus group no enlarged 

 palatine teeth have been distinguished in any examples I have ex- 

 amined, while in the others, or Cylindrosteus group, they occur in the 

 young as well as in the adult. 



a. Lepisosteus. No series of enlarged palatine teeth. 

 b. Eye more than half of space to opercle. 



c. Opercle longer than high huronensis. 



cc. Opercle higher than long osseus. 



bb. Eye more than twice to opercle. 



d. Scales smooth treculii. 



eld. Scales crenulate clintonii. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



aa. Cylindrosteus. Always a series of enlarged palatine teeth. 



e. Mouth-cleft, from snout tip to rictus, longer than rest 

 of head. 

 /. Scales 60-63. 



g. Eye lf-lf to opercle, 2\ in interorbital ; 



rictus width 3^-3$ in snout.... platostomus. 



gg. Eye 1^ to opercle, 2 in interorbital; rictus 



width 3 in snout scabriceps. 



//. Scales 55-58. 



h. Eye If— If to opercle, 2 in interorbital. 



i. Rictus width 4f in snout ...productus. 



ii. Rictus width 3^ in snout agassizii. 



hh. Eye 2\ to opercle, 2| in interorbital; 



rictus width 1\ in snout castelnaudii. 



ee. Mouth-cleft, from snout tip to rictus, shorter than 

 rest of head. 



j. Scales 57-60. 



k. Eye \\ to opercle megalops. 



kk. Eye 3 to opercle. .. tristoechus. 

 jj. Scales 51-54; eye 2 to opercle 



tropicus. 



Lepisosteus huronensis (Richardson). PI. XXXVIII, fig. 2. 



Lepidosteus otarius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. "Platte 

 River, near Fort Riley." 



Head 2-£-3i; depth 3i-5| in head; D. 8, rarely 7 or 9; A. 9, fre- 

 quently 8, rarely 7 or 10; P. 12, often 11, rarely 7 or 10; V. 6, rarely 

 7 ; scales 62, frequently 63 or 64, rarely 60 or 61 ; predorsal scales 51 , 

 often 50, 52-54; scales around trunk middle 39, often 38, seldom 34. 

 35, 41-43; snout lf-lf in head; eye 1^-1| to opercle; interorbital 

 |-1 T V; length 200-710 mm. Warren County, Pa., 3; Battle Creek 

 in upper Mo. basin 1 ; Port Riley, Kan., 1 ; Wabash R., Ind., 1 ; Holston 

 R., Va. (dry head); also 6 dry heads and 4 dry skins without data. 

 No. 16,968, A. N. S. P., cotype of L. otarius Cope. Figure of Warren 

 County example. 



Sarchirus vittatus Raf. and S. argenteus Raf. are unidentifiable 

 young, possibly this species ? Lepisosteus longirostris Raf. may be 

 the adult, but is insufficiently described, and therefore I adopt 

 Richardson's name as the oldest. Lepidosteus semiradiatus Ag., L. 

 harlani Dum., L. smithii D., L. ayresii D., L. copei D., L. troostii D., 

 and Lepisosteus lineatus Thomps. agree in the large eye and may be 

 identical. L. bison DeK., Lepidosteus lesuerii Dum., L. elisabeth D., 

 L. lamarii D., L. piquotianus D. and L. horatii D., all have a smaller 

 eye. 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Lepisosteus osseus (Linnaeus), PI. XXXVIII. figs. 3, 4. 



Lepidosteus crassus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. Proba- 

 bly Bombay Hook, Del. 



Head 2f-3$; depth 2f-3| in head; D. 7, seldom 8, rarely 9; A. 9, 

 frequently 8; P. 12, rarely 10, 13 or 14; V. 6, rarely 5; scales 61, 

 seldom 58, rarely 59, 60 or 63; predorsal scales 50, often 49 or 52, 

 seldom 51 ; scales around trunk middle 42 or 44, seldom 41 , 47 or 48 ; 

 snout lf-H in head; eye lf-ly^ to opercle; interorbital 4-fV '> length 

 424-1019 mm. Delaware Bay 1; Potomac R. 4, of which 3 dry; 

 Bayport, Fla., 2 dry; no data 1 dry; Seaford, Del., jaws; Liberty 

 County, Ga., jaws. No. 16,971, A. N. S. P., type of L. crassus Cope 

 (figured). 



The account by Linnaeus is based on Catesby, Bonn., who undoubt- 

 edly had this species in view. Esox viridis, Lepisosteus gavial Lac, 

 Macrognathus loricatus Gray and Lepidosteus milbertii Dum. are other 

 synonyms. This species differs from the smooth-scaled L. huronensis 

 in having the lateral scales, especially anteriorly, rugosely striated. 



Lepisosteus treculii (Dumenl). PL XXXVIII, fig. 5. 



Head 3-3£; depth 4-4^ in head; D. 8; A. 8; P. 12; V. 6; scales 

 58?-60; predorsal scales 51 ; scales around trunk middle 39-43; snout 

 1£ in head; eye 2-2f to opercle; interorbital &-1; length 900-1155 

 mm. Ohio R. 1 (figured) and San Antonio, Tex., 1, both dry skins. 



DumdriPs account is the earliest I find for this species. L. oxyurus 

 Raf. and Lepidosteus leptorhynchus Girard are insufficiently described 

 to permit identification. L. louisianensis Dum. differs in its small eye. 



Lepisosteus clintonii (Dumdril). PI. XXXVIII, fig. 6. 



Head 2£-3i; depth 2f-4 in head; D. 7-8; A. 9. seldom 8; P. 

 12-13; V. 6; scales 58-66; predorsal scales 50-54; scales around 

 trunk middle 46, sometimes 45; snout lf-H m head; eye lf-2£ to 

 opercle; interorbital f-1^; length 365-1178 mm. Delaware R,, 

 just below Trenton, 1 dry (figured); Ohio R. 1 dry; no data 2. 



Lepidosteus thompsoni Dum. has a still smaller eye, though other- 

 wise agrees. 

 Cylindrosteus platostomus (Rafinesque). PI. XXXVIII, fig. 7. 



Head 3£-3f; depth 2^-24, in head; D. 7-8; A. 8; P. 12; V. 6; 

 scales 62-63; predorsal scales 54; scales around trunk middle 47-49; 

 snout If in head; eye If to opercle; interorbital T 9 ¥ ; length 577-582 

 mm. "N.Am.," 2. 



These examples would appear to be Rafinesque' s species as expressed 

 by Kirtland and Dumeril. Kirtland's figure shows eye about If to 

 opercle and rictus width about 3£ in snout length. L. (C) oculatus 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



Winchell may be a synonym. Lepisosteus platyrhynchus DeK. has 

 much fewer scales, and C. rafinesquii Dum. is said to have eye 2 to 

 opercle. 



Cylindrosteus scabriceps sp. nov. PI. XXXVIII, figs. 8, 9. 



Head 3£; depth 2| in head; D. 8, 1, fulcra 5; A. 8, i, fulcra 6; P. 11, 

 fulcra 1; V. 6, fulcra 3; scales 63 in 1. 1. to caudal base; predorsal 

 scales about 53; scales around trunk middle 47; snout If in head; 

 mandible If; interorbital 6^-; dorsal length 2\; anal 2\; caudal, 

 from base medianly of upper lobe If; pectoral 3£; ventral 2f ; snout 

 width at rictus 6J; eye If to opercle. 



Body elongate, well compressed, predorsal region stoutest in width 

 anteriorly, and greatest depth at ventral base. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, least depth about 2\ its total length. 



Head well depressed, wider than deep, upper profile concave, 

 especially just before eye, lower profile straight, and flattened sides 

 slightly convergent below. Snout well depressed, arising in gentle 

 median slope behind, and width at tip trifle less than half of basal 

 width. Eye trifle elliptical, placed at last third in head length, and 

 If in least interorbital width. Mouth not completely capable of 

 closing, and mandible tip included well within snout tip. Series of 

 minute sharp conic teeth along each edge of jaw externally of more 

 or less unequal size. Just within small teeth a single series of en- 

 larged slender conic teeth, in front of jaw these much larger and others 

 gradually decreasing in size towards rictus, where very little larger 

 than small external teeth. These long teeth uniformly larger in lower 

 jaw, and when jaws close alternate so that their tips fit in sockets 

 in opposite jaw. Front of upper jaw with 3 enlarged canines in trans- 

 verse series, and mandible with 2 at end of each ramus. Osseus 

 palatine ridge externally with an elongated narrow asperous area, and 

 along its inner edge a series of small pointed teeth, much larger than 

 asperities, and anterior ones largest, others graduated down pos- 

 teriorly so as scarcely distinguishable toward rictus. An inner elon- 

 gated area of palatine asperities, becoming wider posteriorly. A 

 narrow median area of vomerine asperities. Along each edge of 

 mandible internally narrow area of minute asperities. Tongue 

 broadly expanded, free, deeply notched in front and upper surface 

 well asperous. Nostrils 2 small pores, superior, near snout tip, 

 distance between anterior and posterior little greater than internasal. 

 Interorbital rather broadly depressed, only slightly convex. Opercle 

 nearly deep as long, and lower edge deeply inclined down convexly 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



in front. Bones on head all with rather conspicuous and coarse 

 rugosities or striae. 



Gill-opening forward about f to eye, forming rather broad fold over 

 isthmus. Rakers 4 + 14 short rounded stumps, filaments about 

 half of horizontal eye. and pseudobranchiae about f of filaments. 

 Few osseous scutes along inside edge of gill-opening. 



Most all scales entirely smooth, a few about head and anterior 

 predorsal region with a few slight rugosities. Series of enlarged scales 

 along gill-opening above and down to pectoral base quite rugose. 

 L. 1. nearly median along side, curving down little low along caudal 

 peduncle side, and each scale in its course with slight notch at posterior 

 apex. 



Dorsal origin little before last fourth in entire length of body, or 

 about opposite base of fourth branched anal ray, second and third 

 branched rays subequally longest, fin rounded, and when depressed 

 nearly reaching median caudal base. Anal similar, inserted well 

 before dorsal, and second, third and fourth branched rays subequally 

 longest. Caudal elongate, rounded, and upper median rays longest. 

 Pectoral pointed, 2f to ventral. Ventral larger than pectoral, inserted 

 trifle nearer latter than anal, and depressed 2^ to anal. Vent close 

 before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull brownish, back and upper surface darker, 

 paler below. All fins pale brownish, each with a few rather large 

 deeper brown spots, of darker shade on dorsal, anal and caudal, and 

 others all very indistinct. Iris brass}-. 



Length 344 mm. (13 inches). 



Type, No. 621, A. X. S. P. Leavenworth, Kan. E. D. Cope. 

 (Figured.) 



Also No. 622, A. N. 8. P., paratype, same data. Besides this, are 

 2 other examples referrible to this species. An alcoholic preparation 

 labeled "San Domingo, West Indies, W. M. Gabb," is uncertain and 

 may have really come from somewhere in the United States, while a 

 dry skin in the Cope Collection has no other data. These specimens 

 show: Head 31-3* ; depth 2*-3£; D. 8; A. 8; P. 11-12; V. 6; scales- 

 62-63 in 1. 1.; predorsal scales 51-55; scales around trunk middle 

 41-48; snout lf-lf in head; eye 1^-U to opercle, lf-2 in inter- 

 orbital; interorbital i-1 to opercle; length 344-550 mm. This 

 species differs at once from C. platostomus in the larger eye and much 

 coarser striations or rugosities on the head. 



(Scaber, rough; ceps, head.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



Cylindrosteus productus Cope. PI. XXXVIII, figs. 10, 11. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 86. San Antonio, Tex. 



Head 2*-3i; depth 3^-34 in head; D. 8; A. 7-9; P. 10; V. 6; scales 

 57-60; predorsal scales 49-54; scales around trunk middle 42-44; 

 snout If in head; eye U to opercle; interorbital yV- 1; length 213- 

 449 mm. Battle Creek in upper Missouri basin 2. No. 16,958, A. N. 

 S. P., type of C. productus Cope, dry skin (figured). 



Cylindrosteus agassizii Dumenl. PI. XXXVIII, fig. 12. 



Head 3f ; depth 2f in head; D. 8; A. 7; P. 11; V. 6; scales 55; 

 predorsal scales 47; scales around trunk middle 40; snout If in head; 

 eye H to opercle; interorbital £; length 420 mm. Dry skin, "North 

 America." 



Cylindrosteus castelnaudii Dumenl. PI. XXXVIII, figs. 13, 14. 



Head 3£; depth 2; D. 9; A. 8; P. 11; V. 6; scales 58; predorsal 

 scales 52; scales around trunk middle 45; snout If in head; eye 

 2f to opercle; interorbital |; eye in interorbital 2f; length 600 mm. 

 W. coast of Fla., in 1886, by Prof. A. Heilprin 1. 



This example agrees with Dumeril's account, which seems to be 

 the earliest name for the species. Possibly Lepidosteus (C.) latirostris 

 Girard is also identical, but the account of that species is insufficient. 

 C. bartonii D. is another synonym. 



Cylindrosteus megalops sp. nov. PI. XXXVIII, figs. 15, 10. 



Head 3f; depth If in head; D. 7, i, fulcra 2 ? (damaged); A. 8, i, 

 fulcra 8; P. 9, fulcra about 8, weak and indistinct distally; V. 6, 

 fulcra 5; scales 57 in 1. 1. to caudal base; predorsal scales about 51; 

 scales around trunk middle 44; snout If in head; mandible 2; inter- 

 orbital 5; pectoral 24; ventral 2\; snout width at rictus 4f; eye 

 H to opercle. 



Body moderately elongate, well compressed, predorsal region 

 stoutest in width, and greatest depth at ventral base. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, least depth If its total length. 



Head well depressed, much wider than deep, upper profile slightly 

 concave, especially about middle of snout. Lower profile similarly 

 approximated, and flattened head sides slightly convergent below. 

 Snout well depressed, arising in gentle median slope behind, and 

 width at tip trifle less than half of basal width. Eye large, trifle ellipti- 

 cal, placed about last § in head length, and H in least interorbital width. 

 Mouth completely closing, and truncated mandible tip included well 

 within snout tip. Series of minute sharp conic teeth along each edge 

 of jaw externally of more or less unequal size. Just inside small teeth 

 a single series of enlarged slender conic teeth, towards front of jaw 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



these much larger and others gradually decreasing in size towards 

 rictus, where quite larger still than very small externals. Long teeth 

 uniformly larger in lower jaw, and when jaws close alternate so that 

 their tips fit in sockets in opposite jaw. Front of upper jaw with 

 4 rather small teeth in transverse series and mandible with 1 enlarged 

 tooth at each corner in front, also a smaller one unsymmetrically on 

 front of left ramus. Osseus palatine ridge externally with an elongated 

 narrow asperous area and along its inner edge a series of small pointed 

 teeth, much larger than asperities, though quite inconspicuous. An 

 inner elongated area of palatine asperities, becoming wider poste- 

 riorly. A narrow median area of vomerine asperities. Tongue broadly 

 expanded, free, deeply notched in front and upper surface well asper- 

 ous. Nostrils 2 small pores, lower inferior and posterior superior, 

 near snout tip, distance between anterior and posterior about 1^ 

 in anterior internasal. Interorbital broadly depressed, very slightly 

 convex. Opercle almost deep as long, and lower edge convexly 

 curved forwards. Bones of head all with rather conspicuous and 

 coarse rugosites or striae. 



Gill-opening forward about half-way to eye, forming rather broad 

 fold over isthmus. Rakers about 5 + 10 short rounded asperous 

 stumps, filaments about half of horizontal eye, and pseudobranchise 

 about f of filaments. Xo osseous scutes along inside edge of gill- 

 openings. 



Most all scales entirely smooth. Series of enlarged scales along 

 gill-opening above, and down to pectoral base, lower slightly roughened. 

 L. 1. nearly median along side, sloping down little low along caudal 

 peduncle side, and each scale in its course with slight notch at pos- 

 terior apex. 



Dorsal origin near last -^ in total length (caudal damaged) or about 

 opposite base of fifth branched anal ray. Anal similar, inserted well 

 before. Caudal elongate, rounded, and upper median rays appar- 

 ently (damaged) longest. Pectoral pointed, about 2\ to ventral. 

 Ventral trifle larger than pectoral, about 2 to anal, inserted about 

 midway between pectoral and anal origins. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol uniform brownish, upper surface scarcely paler. 



Length 418 mm. (16^ inches). 



Type, No. 25,371, A." N. S. P. Bayport, Fla. J.B.Wood. Pre- 

 sented by E. D. Cope. 



The above is the only example I have seen, and seems to be most 

 closely related to Lepidosteus grayi Agassiz, which is said to have 

 smooth scales, snout not longer than rest of head, and a series of 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



enlarged teeth in upper jaw. Agassiz's acount, however, is too incom- 

 plete for positive identification. Regan has examined Agassiz's 

 type and says it has a much broader snout than C. platostomus, or its 

 width at mouth angles 2% in upper jaw length. C. megalops shows 

 rictus width 2f in snout length. Regan also thinks C. zadockii Du- 

 menl may be identical with C. grayi Agassiz, though DumeVil 

 gives eye 1-2^- in interorbital, and about 2 in postorbital to pre- 

 opercle edge, besides smaller scales as 61 or 62. The type of C. grayi 

 is 600 mm. and the examples of C. zadockii 620-660 mm. 



(Msyaloip^ large-eyed.) 

 Cylindrosteus tristcechus (Schneider). PL XXXVIII, fig. 17. 



Head 3f-3f; depth 2§-3£ in head; D. 7-8; A. 8; P. 13-14; V. 6; 

 scales 61-63; predorsal scales 51-53; scales around trunk middle 

 58-61; snout If in head; eye 2f— 2£ to opercle; interorbital f-f; 

 eye in interorbital 4; length 1067-1340 mm. Mississippi R. 1 from 

 Dr. Anderson, and 1 from same basin in Louisiana from Dr. S. G. 

 Richardson (figured), both dry skins. Also 2 others without data 

 and 1 dry head. 



I allow the identification of the Cuban and Mississippi Valley forms 

 as Dumeril, who has examined some of the former, gives the eye in 

 agreement with my Mississippi R. examples, though Poey's figure of 

 Lepidosteus manjuari shows the eye only 2 in postorbital to opercle. 

 Lepisosteus spatula Lac, L. albus Raf., L. ferox R., Lepidosteus (Atrac- 

 tosteus) berlandieri Gir. and A. lucius Dum. are other synonyms. 

 Cylindrosteus tropicus (Gill). PI. XXXVIII, fig. 18. 



Head 2 T %; depth 2f ? in head; D. 8; A. 7; P. 14; V. 6; scales 53; 

 predorsal scales 47; scales around trunk middle 45; snout If in head; 

 eye 2 to opercle; interorbital f ; eye 2\ in interorbital ; length 770 mm. 

 Nicaragua, 1 from Dr. J. F. Bransford. • 



AMIATLD^i. 

 Amiatus oalvus (Linnaeus). 



Erie, Pa., 1; L. Erie, 1; Ithaca, N. Y., 1; Maryland, 1; Mississippi 

 Valley, 1; also 15 others without data and 1 a dry skin. 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Explanation of Plate XXXVIII. 



Fig. 1. — Aeipenser breniro strum Le Sueur. Type (?). Upper figure to left- 

 dorsal view of head; upper figure to right ventral view of head; lower 

 figure a lateral view. 



Fig. 2. — Lepisosteus huronensis (Richardson). Warren Co., Pa. 



Figs. 3,4. — Lepisosteus osseus (Linnseus). • Type of Lepidosteus crassus Cope. 



Fig. 5. — Lepisosteus treculii (Dumdril). Ohio River. 



Fig. 6. — Lepisosteus clintonii (Dumeril). Delaware River below Trenton. 



Fig. 7. — Cylindrosteus platostomus (Rafinesque). "North America " 



Figs. 8, 9. — Cylindrosteus scabriceps Fowler. Type. 



Figs. 10,11. — Cylindrosteus productus Cope. Type. 



Fig. 12. — Cylindrosteus agassizii Dumeril. North America. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Cylindrosteus castelnaudii Dumenl. West coast of Florida. 



Figs. 15, 16. — Cylindrosteus megalops Fowler. Type. 



Fig. 17. — Cylindrosteus tristcechus (Schneider). Mississippi River, La. 



Fig. 18. — Cylindrosteus tropicus (Gill). Nicaragua. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



November 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fort} r persons present. 



The death of Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D., a Vice-President of 

 the Academy, on the 29th ult., having been announced, the following 

 minute, offered by the Council, was adopted and ordered to be placed 

 on record : 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has heard with 

 deep regret of the death of its senior Vice-President, Arthur Erwin 

 Brown, Sc.D., and desires to put on record its appreciation of the 

 loss it has sustained. 



Since his election to membership in 1876 Dr. Brown manifested 

 his interest in the society loyally and efficiently, serving as Curator 

 for seventeen years and as Vice-President since 1900. 



Wise in council, efficient and conscientious in the discharge of his 

 official duties, his co-operation was highly esteemed by his associates, 

 while his enlightened sympathy with the progress of the societ}^ 

 materially advanced its interests. 



His contributions to science were characterized by accuracy and 

 breadth of view and added notably to the importance of the Academy's 

 publications. 



Courtesy, candor and consideration marked his intercourse with 

 his fellow-members, who will long hold his memory in affectionate 

 regard. 



Their sorrow enables them to sympathize deeply with his sister, 

 to whom they extend their heartfelt commiseration. 



Miss H. Newell Wardle made a communication on the Congress 

 of Americanists held in Mexico, September 7 to 14, and on certain 

 Mexican ruins examined incidental to the meeting. (No abstract.) 



November 15. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 

 The deaths of the following persons were announced : 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov. , 



John H. Converse, a member, May 3, 1910; 

 Richard Wood, a member, September 29, 1910; 

 Edward S. Buckley, a member, November 15, 1910; 

 William K. Brewer, a correspondent, November 2, 1910. 



Henry Leffmann, M.D., made a communication on mechanical 

 principles in living structures. (No abstract.) 



Robert Adams, Jr., was elected a member. 



The following were elected correspondents: 



Edward B. Poulton, of Oxford, England. 

 Thomas H. Morgan, of New York. 

 Lucien Ossian Howard, of Washington. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 615 



PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF NORTH CAROLINA ORTHOPTERA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN and MORGAN HEBARD. 



During a considerable portion of the time between April, 1904, and 

 June, 1906, the junior author of this paper resided at Sulphur Springs, 

 altitude 2,500 feet, a few miles from Asheville, North Carolina, and 

 collecting in this order was done on many occasions. The re- 

 sulting collections, of particular value as showing the character of 

 the Orthopterous fauna of the intermontane valleys of the southern 

 Appalachians, were further supplemented by collections made at 

 Balsam and on the slopes and summit of Mt. Pisgah in the Pisgah 

 Range and on the upper slopes and summit of Jone's Knob, Balsam 

 Range, North Carolina, With these typical localities of the western 

 portion of the State it seemed quite desirable to compare a representee 

 series from some coastal plain locality, and in consequence the junior 

 author secured from Mr. H. S. Brimley an extensive series of material 

 taken chiefly at Raleigh. To still further supplement this the senior 

 author was detailed by the Academy to examine portions of eastern 

 North Carolina, collections being made at Edenton, New Berne and 

 Winter Park near Wilmington in August, 1908. 



The result of the study of these combined collections are given in 

 the following pages. 1 



The total number of specimens examined w r as seventeen hundred 

 and twenty-three, belonging to one hundred and two species, of which 

 seventeen are here recorded from North Carolina for the first time. 



The following notes on the localities may be of interest : 



Sulphur Springs, Buncombe County, North Carolina. Altitude, 

 2,500 feet. This locality was found to offer several distinct types 

 of country, in all of which collecting was done, and on a sufficient 

 number of dates to give an almost complete list of the species found 

 in the vicinity. The rolling slopes of the surrounding country where 

 not cleared are covered with a heavy forest of oak, chestnut, maple 

 and other deciduous trees, and in the not heav} 7 undergrowth of these 

 tracts the most interesting species found were Melanoplus carncgiei 



1 See also these Proceedings, 1910, pp. 407-453, for a systematic study of the 

 specimens of the genus Ischnoptera included in this series. 



40 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



and Melanoplus devius. In the decaying chestnut logs of this wood- 

 land Cryptocercus punctulatus was also taken, and it is from these 

 wooded areas that the great number of Ischnoptera come in the 

 spring to nearby lights. In the open valleys and on the hillsides 

 covered with short grass and low herbage Eritettix simplex was taken, 

 while the edge of streams and marshy spots revealed many Tettigids. 

 One small marsh full of cat-tails was found to harbor a large colony 

 of Truxalis brevicornis. The poorer clay slopes and hillocks are often 

 overgrown with stunted pines having an undergrowth chiefly of 

 broomstraw, grasses and raspberry vines, and here OrchMimum agile, 

 Orchelimum minor (in the trees) and several species of Conocephalus, 

 including C. nemoralis, were taken. Collecting at night was found 

 productive, and the following species were taken attracted to light: 

 Ischnoptera pensylvanica , I. couloniana, I. uhleriana, I. boredlis, 

 I. bolliana. Microcentrum rhombifolium and Microcentrum red nerve. 



Mt. Pisgah (altitude, 5,740 feet) and Pisgeih Ridge, junction of Hun- 

 combe and three other counties, North Carolina. On the upper slopes, 

 covered with a heavy but low forest, chiefly composed of chestnut 

 and other deciduous trees, Orthoptera were uncommon. The inter- 

 esting captures were Melanoplus devius, Gryllus neglcctus, Nomotettix 

 cristatus, ChloeaUis eojispersa and Melanoplus luridus. 



The summit bald proved to be inhabited by Chorthippus curtipennis, 

 Chortophaga viridijasciata, Melanoplus ampleetcns, Amblycorypha 

 rotundijolia and Arphia sulphured. 



Jones's Knob (altitude, 6,200 feet), Balsam Mountains, Jackson 

 County, North Carolina. No Orthoptera whatever were found on the 

 "balsam" (Abies fraseri) clothed summit of the mountain, but lower 

 in the undergrowth of the heavy deciduous forest, especially in more 

 open level grassy glades, the following interesting captures were made: 

 Melanoplus amplectens, Melanoplus divergens, Melanoplus luridus, 

 and Atlanticus pachymerus. 



Edenton, Chowan County, North Carolina. August 20, 1908. At 

 this locality collecting was done in a field of tall weeds and grasses and 

 in wet drains along roadsides. The most important captures were 

 Orchelimum molossum and pulchellum. 



New Berne, Craven County, North Carolina. August 24, 1908. 

 Three conditions were examined at this locality : first, bush and grass 

 growth in a wet drain, where Leptysma marginicollis , Orchelimum. 

 molossum, Conocephalus strictus and Phylloscyrtus pulchettm were 

 probably the most noteworthy species taken; second, a wet, meadowy 

 area with low lycopodium-like growth in many places and with inter- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



spersed dry spots tangled with smilax, the most striking captures 

 being Melanoplus decorus, Clinocephalus elegans, Amblytropidia occi- 

 dentalis, Paxilla obesa, Neotettix femoratus and Tettigidea prorsa; third, 

 tall dry brush in tall rather open pine woods where Mermiria ulacris 

 and Schistocerca alutacea and americana were secured. 



Winter Park, N'ew Hanover County, North Carolina. August 26, 

 1908. At this point which is between Wilmington and Wrightsville, 

 collecting was done in a piece of moderate-sized, long-leafed pine woods, 

 the drier portions of which were carpeted with wire-grass and the 

 moister hollows grown up with waist-high grass. The drier sections 

 were frequented by Arphia xanthoptera, Scirtetica picta, Hippiscus 

 rugosus, Psinidia fenestralis, Syrbula admirabilis, Orphulella pelidna r 

 Melanoplus keeleri and Amblycorypha uhleri. The wet grassy areas 

 were inhabited by Clinocephalus elegans, Melanoplus decorus, Paroxya 

 atlantica, Orchelimum glaberrimum and Odontoxiphidium apterum. 

 The most striking species found in both habitats was Mermiria alacris. 



The number of species taken at each of the principal localities was 

 as follows: Eden ton, ten; New Berne, twenty-eight; Winter Park, 

 nineteen; Raleigh, fifty-seven; Sulphur Springs, fifty-one; Balsam, 

 four; Jones's Knob, five; Mt. Pisgah, several elevations, fifteen. 



A few records from Bayville and Cape Henry, Princess Anne County, 

 Virginia, based on material taken by the senior author in 1908, are 

 included to make the report on that year's collecting complete. 



Many species have been recorded from Raleigh by Brimley in a 

 recent paper of his on the Orthoptera of that region, 2 and full credit 

 for the pioneer work in faunistic Orthopterology in North Carolina 

 must be given to his paper and to the very important study of a 

 number of localities in the State made by Morse, 3 both of which are 

 referred to in the following pages. 



BLATTID^]. 

 Isclmoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner). 



At Sulphur Springs two adult males of this species were taken 01* 

 May 8 and 10, 1904, an immature male on April 13th of the same year 

 and an immature female captured September 23, 1905. The Raleigh 

 series contains a very interesting lot of ten adult females taken or 

 bred on dates ranging from May 25 to June 25, 1904, and June 7 to> 

 July 1, 1905. An immature female taken June 21, 1904, was collected 



2 Ent. News, XIX, pp. 16-21, 190S. 



3 Carnegie Inst. Publ. No. 18, 1904. 






618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



under pine straw and rotten wood in pine woods, while the one adult 

 female with capture datum was taken from under rubbish in field. 



The series of females shows quite a little individual variation in 

 general size, the extremes of the series of that sex measuring as follows : 



Length of body 13.5*mm., 17. mm. 



Length of pronotum 4 4.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 5 " 6.8 " 



Length of tegmen 4 " 4.8 " 



Greatest width of abdomen 6.9 " 8.2 " 



In coloration two points of variation are apparent: first, the teg- 

 mina of the females are decidedly blackish in some specimens, dull 

 brownish in others; second, the femora vary in the presence or absence, 

 or depth when present, of the blackish coloration, the majority of the 

 specimens having the femora ferrugineous like the tibiae. 



Isohnoptera johnscmi Kehn. 



A single adult female taken at Sulphur Springs. June 3, 1904, and 

 two adult males secured at Raleigh, May 24, 1905, and June 8. 1904, 

 are contained in the collection. The single Sulphur Springs specimens 

 was taken in low herbage near the edge of the Avoods. 



Isohnoptera pensylvanica (De Geer). 



Two males of this species taken at Sulphur Springs, May 25 and 30, 



1904, and one of the same sex from Raleigh, June 2, 1904, are in the 

 collection. In one of the Sulphur Springs specimens the blackish 

 area of the disk of the pronotum is very solid and extensive, crowding 

 the yellowish lateral borders to very narrow eduings. The other 

 Sulphur Springs individual and the Raleigh specimen have the more 

 normal type of pronotal coloration. 



The specimens taken at Sulphur Springs were captured at night 

 attracted to light. 



Isohnoptera divisa Saussure and Zehntner. 4 



The present collection includes five males and two females taken 

 or bred at Raleigh, June 9-15, 1904. and May 22. June 9 and July 6-8, 



1905. Data on the specimens inform us that both females were taken 

 by sugaring, one of the males flew into a house at night and three of 

 the same sex were bred. 



4 This is the species referred to by Brimley as /. couloniana (Ent. News, XIX, 

 p. l(j), on the basis of material identified by the senior author. (Saussure's 

 couloniana has since been shown by us (these Proceedings, 1910, p. 433) to belong 

 to another species. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



Isohnoptera couloniana Saussure.s 



A series of eighteen male and twenty female adult individuals from 

 North Carolina have been examined. The Raleigh series contains 

 sixteen males and twenty females, taken from under bark of dead 

 pines or bred on dates ranging from June 2 to July 1, 1904, while two- 

 adult males and an immature female were taken at Sulphur Springs, 

 June 5, 1904, at night attracted to light. 



The series before us presents a perceptible amount of variation 

 in size and color, the size extremes of both sexes being as follows 

 (all the measured specimens being from Raleigh) : 



Length of body... 20.5 mm., 21.5 mm., 18.5 mm., 22.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.S " 5 " 4.8 " G 



Greatest width of 



pronotum 6 " 6.5 " 7.2 " 8.2 " 



Length of tegmem. 9.2 " 21.8 " 7.5 " 8 



The more usual type of coloration is that described by Blatchley 

 and found in the type of Scudder's synonymous hyalina, the disk of 

 the male pronotum being pale reddish ochraceous, while the other 

 extreme, to which belonged the type of couloniana, has the same area 

 more or less infuscate, particularly cephalad. The depth of this 

 infuscation is very variable and it is found clearly denned in but five 

 of the males examined, although suggested by points and lines in 

 several others. In the female much the same thing occurs as in the 

 male, but less clearly defined in most of the cases. 



Ischnoptera uhleriana (Saussure). 



The series of this species before us is quite extensive, consisting of 

 ninety-nine males and six females, ninety-two males having been 

 taken at Sulphur Springs on dates between May 8 and June 13, 1904, 

 and in April, 1906, the remainder of the series being from Raleigh, 

 taken June 1 to July 1, 1904. The memoranda with the latter speci- 

 mens show they were taken from under the bark of dead trees, attracted 

 to light in houses or bred. The Sulphur Springs specimens were all 

 taken attracted to light. 



The coloration of the present series varies but little and then only 

 in the intensification or lightening of the general color. In but one 

 male is there a darker discal area on the pronotum, and in that case 

 the intensification is not strongly marked and the form of the supra- 



B C. f. these Proceedings, 1910. p. 433. 

 "Orth. Indiana, p. 183. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



anal plate is typical of uhleriana. Two of the females have the disk of 

 the pronotum darkened, much as in divisa, but the tegmina are of the 

 subtruncate uhleriana type and the form of the supra-anal plate is 

 equally distinctive. 



Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens Saussure and Zehntner. 



Seven males from Raleigh, taken in June and July, 1904, are referred 

 to this form. 7 



These specimens were taken under conditions similar to the Raleigh 

 individuals of true /. uhleriana. 

 Isohnoptera borealis Hrunner. 



While usually mistaken at first sight for uhleriana, this species is 

 readily separable by its usually smaller size and distinctly transverse 

 and apically rotundato-areuate supra-anal plate of the male. A 

 series of forty males of this species from Sulphur Springs were taken 

 on dates ranging from May 6 to June 12, 1904, and a single female 

 was collected at Lillington, Harnett County, on June 28, 1904, by 

 Brimley. The last-mentioned specimen was taken from under a log 

 in a wet place in woods. 



The general size is quite below the average of /. uhleriana, the male 

 extremes of the present series measuring as follows : 



Length of body 12.8 mm., 14 mm. 



Length of pronotum :; " 3 



Greatest width of pronotum 3.8 " 4.3 



Length of tegmen.. 14.5 " 18 





-,- 1 



The tegmina of the larger specimen are unusually long, no other 

 individual in the series approaching it at all closely in this respect. 



From early May to the middle of June this species and Ischnoptera 

 uhleriana could be found almost every night about the lights. 



Ischnoptera bolliana Saussure and Zehntner. 



The series before us consists of four males and two females taken 

 at Raleigh. May 30-31, and June 1-8, bred or attracted to light in 

 houses, and five males taken at Sulphur Springs between May S and 

 June 9, 1904. The coloration of the males is quite uniform, the disk 

 of the pronotum being dark with a medio-longitudinal paler bar 

 dividing it in two sections in all the specimens. The females are 

 similar in coloration to the type of the synonymous Kakerlac sehaefferi. 



This was one of the scarcer species at Sulphur Springs where all the 



7 For comments on the relationship and intergradation of /. uhleriana and 

 /. u. fulvescens, with remarks on the Raleigh series, see the present authors, Proc. 

 Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1910, pp. 439-442. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



specimens were taken at night attracted to the lights. The lights 

 referred to here and elsewhere in this paper at Sulphur Springs were 

 the electric lights along the verandas of the Asheville School, which is 

 situated on the edge of the heavy deciduous forest. The roaches 

 attracted to these lights would usually fly about wildly for a time and 

 then rest quietly on the nearby walls and ceilings unless disturbed. 



Ceratinoptera lutea Saussure and Zehntner. 



A single female from Raleigh, taken June 23, 1904, from under 

 rubbish, is in the collection. It fully agrees with a Florida individual 

 of the same sex. 



Cryptocerous punctulatus Scudder. 



A most interesting series of this singular roach is now before us, 

 demonstrating the vertical range of the species in North Carolina to 

 be at least three thousand feet, specimens in the collection being 

 from Sulphur Springs, twenty-five hundred feet, and Old Bald Moun- 

 tain, fifty-five hundred feet elevation. The localities represented 

 are: Sulphur Springs, May 25, June 3-13, 1904, seventy-nine indi- 

 viduals of both sexes, adult and immature; Old Bald Mountain, 5,500 

 feet elevation, May 14, 1904, three adults and one immature individual. 

 An adult individual in the collection of the Academy taken at Blowing 

 Rock, Watauga County, by Joseph Willcox has also been examined. 



These insects are found in the partially decayed chestnut logs in 

 the forest. They were never found except in parts of the logs where 

 the decayed wood was soft, punky and wet. In such places a colony 

 of a number of specimens would be found in galleries just under the 

 bark and in the log itself, often several specimens in close proximity. 

 The localities from which the species is now known are New York; 

 Pennsylvania: Virginia; Kentucky; Cumberland Gap, Kentucky; 

 Tennessee ; North Carolina ; Sulphur Springs, Old Bald Mountain and 

 Blowing Rock. N. C; Rome and Clayton, Ga. ; California; Glendale 

 and Divide, Ore. 



MANTIDiE. 

 Stagmomantis Carolina (Johannson). 



An immature female of this species was taken August 19, 1908, at 

 Bayville, Ya., by Rehn. Two adult females in the Hebard Collec- 

 tion are from Montgomery County, Virginia, and South Carolina 

 The latter has the wings roseate. 



ACRIDID^. 

 Paratettix cucullatus (Burmeister). 



This species is represented by a series of twenty-one North Carolina 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



specimens from the following localities: Raleigh, April 7, May 19 

 and 26 and July 8 and 18, 1904, three males and three females; Sul- 

 phur Springs, April 24 to June 12, 1904, six males, nine females. 



The majority of the specimens show a tendency to approach P. 

 texanus, or rather P. cucullatus texanus as we believe it should be, 

 but they are certainly more closely related to specimens from Penn- 

 sylvania than others from Texas. The data with the Raleigh and 

 Sulphur Springs specimens is to the effect that they were secured on 

 damp, low ground near water. 



Aorydium hancocki (Morse). 



Three female specimens taken at Sulphur Springs, April, 1906, 

 May 7 and September 28, 1904, belong to this species. An individual 

 of the same sex from White Top, Va., elevation, 5,678 feet, in the 

 Academy collection is inseparable. All four specimens are of the long- 

 winged type, and in all but one Sulphur Springs individual is the 

 pronotum variegated with velvety-black in addition to the paired 

 post-humeral trigonal patches on the same, which are present in all 

 the specimens. 



The previous North Carolina records are those of Morse, viz., Ashe- 

 ville, Linville, Pineola, Roan Mountain 5,500 feet, and Roan Valley, 

 while the White Top record is the first one from the State of Virginia. 



Aorydium ornatum (Say). 



A single short-winged female of this species was taken at Sulphur 

 Springs, May 9, 1904. Morse has recorded it from a number of locali- 

 ties in the State. 



Acrydium obscurum (Hancock). 



The collection contains an extensive series of this species: eight 

 males and ten females from Raleigh taken April 7 to May 19, 1904, 

 and sixteen males and nineteen females taken at Sulphur Springs, 

 May 1 to 15, 1904. All the specimens in this series are long-winged 

 and numerous shades of ochraceous, rusty-red and deep brown are 

 to be found in it, while a considerable number of individuals possess 

 the paired velvety-black post-humeral trigonal markings. 



Morse has recorded this species from Asheville, Pineola, Roan 

 Mountain and Tunis, N. C. 



Neotettix femoratus (Scudder). 



The statement made by Hancock 8 on Scudder's authority regarding 

 the whereabouts of the type of this species is incorrect. The type is 



8 Tettigidce of N. Amer., p. 96. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



not lost, and to-day in good condition it forms part of the collection 

 of the American Entomological Society, from which it was described. 

 From the evidence of this important specimen it appears likely that 

 Neotettix bolivari and rotundifrons Hancock are synonymous with 

 Scudder's species, a possibility pointed out some time ago by Morse. 9 



The present collection contains an interesting series of fifty-six 

 specimens distributed as follows: Winter Park, August 26, 19(18, five 

 males, three females, one immature specimen; New Berne, August 

 24, 1908, four males, one female; Raleigh, June 3-September 7, 1904, 

 six males, seven females; Sulphur Springs, May 6-June 5, 1904. seven 

 males, twenty females, two immature individuals. The series is 

 dimorphic as to the length of the pronotum and wings, the long- 

 winged type being represented by nine specimens, seven of these 

 being in the Sulphur Springs series. The size variation is considerable, 

 the New Berne specimens rather curiously being without exception 

 as small or smaller than the smallest individuals from the other locali- 

 ties. Color presents numerous variations, some are blackish, others 

 dull reddish, some dusty gray-brown, others shades of ochraceous, 

 while the shoulder markings are present in more than half of the series, 

 occasionally with a well-developed humeral " saddle." 



The type from Maryland is short-winged and matches in size adult 

 females from Raleigh, the color, however, is more yellowish-ochraceous 

 than in any of the North Carolina specimens. 



Morse has recorded this species from fourteen localities in North 

 Carolina extending from Tarboro to Murphy and to an elevation of 

 5,500 feet on Roan Mountain. 



Nomotettix cristatus (Seudder). 



A single immature female of this species from 4,500 feet elevation 

 on Mt. Pisgah, taken October 1, 1904, is the only individual of the 

 species in the collection. Morse has recorded it from six localities in 

 the State, but this record carries the vertical distribution to a greater 

 height. This specimen was captured in the undergrowth of the low 

 deciduous forest near its upper limit. 

 Paxilla obesa (Seudder). 



This robust species has long been a will-o'-the-wisp in our work in 

 the southeastern States, and it is with great satisfaction that we are 

 able to record its capture at New Berne, August 24, four males and 

 one female being taken in a wet meadow in company with Clinoceph- 

 alus elegans and Melanoplus decorus. This capture considerably ex- 



Publ. 18, Carnegie Inst., p. 25. 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



tended the range of the species, the most northern previous record 

 being from Denmark, S. C. The range is now known to extend from 

 Port Orange and De Funiak Springs, Fla., to New Berne, N. C. 

 The female and one of the males measure as follows : 



Length of body 10.5 mm., 12.8 mm. 



Length of pronotum 9.2 " 11 " 



Length of caudal femur 6.7 " 8 " 



Tettigidea lateralis (Pay). 



A series of eighty-two North Carolina individuals are before us, 

 this comprising the following: Winter Park, August 26, 1908, two 

 females; New Berne, August 24, 1908, two females; Raleigh, April, 

 7-July 18, 1904, twenty-one males, sixteen females; Sulphur Springs, 

 April 2-September 24. 1904, eight males, thirty females; Mt. Pisgah, 

 4,500 feet elevation, October 1, 1904, one adult male, one immature 

 male, one immature female. 



In this series the front margin of the pronotum is found to vary 

 from broadly arcuate to distinctly angulate, regardless of locality or 

 environment. The Raleigh series is overwhelmingly long-winged, 

 but one in the whole thirty-seven individuals being short-winged, 

 while in the thirty-eight Sulphur Springs specimens but two males 

 and twelve females are short-winged. Both Winter Park representa- 

 tives are long-winged, as well as the single adult from Mt. Pisgah and 

 the two specimens from New Berne. Color variations are numerous 

 and varied, and size variation is quite marked in the larger series. 



Tettigidea prorsa Scudder. 



An immature male and an adult female taken at New Berne, August 

 24, 190S, belong to this rare species. The specimens were taken in a 

 wet meadow in company with Tettigidea lateralis and Paxilla obesa. 

 Both specimens are short-winged, as is also a male individual from 

 Beach Haven, N. J., taken in the spring of 1907, the only other speci- 

 men of the species seen. 



The range of the species is now known to extend from Georgia to 

 east-central New Jersey, the only records in addition to those men- 

 tioned above being from Georgia, North Carolina and Denmark, S. C. 



Truxalis brevicornis (Johannson). 



Three pairs from Raleigh, taken August 15 to September 15 in or 

 on the edge of marsh, and an extensive series of twenty-four males 

 and five females taken September IS at Sulphur Springs represent 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



this widely distributed species. The Sulphur Springs series was 

 captured among cat-tails. 



All of the males are in the green and brown phase, four of the eight 

 females in a uniform green phase and the remaining four in a uniform 

 brownish phase. 

 Mermiria alacris Scudder. 



This beautiful species was found to be fairly numerous but very 

 wary in oak scrub along the edge of pine woods at New Berne on 

 August 21, and equally numerous but easier to secure in long-leaf 

 pine woods at Winter Park on August 26. Two males and one female 

 were secured at the former locality and five males and four females 

 at the latter. In size there is considerable variation, which appears 

 from the material in hand, comprising Florida material as well the 

 North Carolina series, to be purely individual in character, more 

 marked in the male than in the female sex. The coloration is quite 

 constant, varying only in the extent of facial suffusion and the strength 

 of the medio-longitudinal streak on the head and pronotum. 



The only previous North Carolina record for the species is a doubtful 

 one based on a young individual from Salisbury. 



Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



The localities from which this species is represented in the collec- 

 tions are: Bayville, Va., August 19, one immature female; Edenton, 

 August 20, one male, two females; Winter Park, August 26, two 

 females; Raleigh, August 17-September 2, three males, four females; 

 Sulphur Springs, September 24-October 6, one male, two females. 



A variety of habitats are represented as the labels indicate a range 

 of environment extending from dry pinewoods undergrowth at Raleigh 

 and Winter Park to wet woods at Bayville and wet drains at Edenton. 



In size the North Carolina specimens are nearer to individuals 

 from New Jersey than they aie to the extremely large Florida repre- 

 sentatives. 



Eritettix simplex (Scudder). 



A most interesting series of one hundred and forty-eight specimens 

 of this species taken at Sulphur Springs is in the collection. Of this 

 representation seventy-eight are adult males, sixty-five adult females 

 and five immature individuals, the dates extending from April 2 to 

 June 12, the immatu.e individuals having been taken on April 2 and 

 13. A pair from Raleigh, taken April 13 and May 5 in broom straw 

 field, have also been examined. 



The species was found locally plentiful in the low grasses of the 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nbvi, 



treeless slopes and valleys. The individuals with general color pale 

 yellowish ochraceous were found almost invariably in the very bottom 

 of the valleys, and seemed a color adaptation in their resemblance to 

 the more plentiful whitish pebbles strewn about there. 



Several questions have been brought into prominence by the exami- 

 nation of this material, the first being in regard to the name. For- 

 tunately the type of Gomphoeerus simplex Scudder 10 is still in existence 

 in good condition in the Academy collections, and several efforts to 

 find some valid reason for recognizing the later and very poorly 

 characterized G. carinaius Scudder from the ''Middle States" having 

 failed, we are under the necessity of uniting the two, simplex having 

 six years' priority. At the present time we are not prepared to give 

 any expression on the exact relationship of this species and the western 

 allies with clavate antenna 1 , viz., E. virgatus, tricarinatus and navi- 

 culus. 



The other point is relative to the presence of marked dimorphism 

 and dichromatism in this species. The greater majority of the speci- 

 mens of this species before us possess distinct supplementary carina? 

 on the dorsum of the head and pronotum, the type of the species 

 belonging to this form, while nine males and seven females, repre- 

 senting both localities, have the supplementary carinse lacking on 

 the pronotum and weak or lacking on the head. A series of eight 

 males and one female from Sulphur Springs are intermediate between 

 the two extremes, having the supplementary carinse very faintly and 

 incompletely indicated on the pronotum and faintly or moderately 

 indicated on the head. 



There is a great amount of individual variation in the form of the 

 lateral carinas of the pronotum, some specimens having them sub- 

 parallel, distinctly not constricted mesad and rarely very slightly 

 convergent cephalad, while the great majority have the carinse con- 

 stricted more or less distinctly and sharply immediately cephalad of 

 the middle. There is no correspondence between these two conditions 

 and the presence or absence of supplementary carinse. The distance 

 between the lateral carinas of the pronotum is variable. In general 

 size the species varies considerably, particularly in the male sex. 



The dichromatism noticed is typically examplified by one form 

 with the general color pale yellowish ochraceous and the postocular 

 bars broad and solid, extending to the tegmina, and vandyke brown 

 in color, while the other type, which is by far the more numerous, has 



10 Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, II, p. 305, 1869. (Delaware.) 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



no solid postocular bars and the dorsal surface of the head and prono- 

 tum is marked with a pair of longitudinal velvety blackish or brownish 

 lines. Between the two types are numerous individuals which seem 

 to bridge more or less completely the gap between the extremes. In 

 some the dorsum is uniformly dark with distinct broad, postocular 

 bars, in others the dorsum is almost uniform dark while the postocular 

 bars are lacking. The coloration of this species offers a curious 

 parallelism to that of Psolcessa texana Scudder which we have recently 

 treated in detail. 11 the pale type with the decided postocular bars 

 beino; analogous to Psoloessa buddiana, the strongly dorsal bilineate 

 type to P. ferruginea and the dull form to true P. texana. 



The range of this species extends from Connecticut (New Haven) to 

 northeastern Alabama (Valley Head and Lookout Mountain), east to 

 Raleigh, N. C. Its zonal correlation would appear to be Carolinian. 



Amblytropidia oocidentalis (Saussure). 



Two adult males and one adult female from Raleigh, taken April 

 13, 22 and May 19 in broomstraw fields and a series of seventeen 

 immature individuals in three stages of development taken at New 

 Berne, August 24, have been examined. 



The only North Carolina records are from Raleigh, Selma and New 

 Berne, these constituting the most northern reliable records for the 

 species. 



Orphulella pelidna tBurmeister).« 



A single female of this species was taken at Cape Henry, Va., 

 August 19, on dry beach grass, while at Bayville, Va., August 19, 

 a single specimen of the same sex was secured at a wet spot in woods. 

 At New Berne, August 24, six males and one female were secured in a 

 wet meadow, while two males and one female were captured in dry 

 pine woods at Winter Park, August 26. A series of twelve males and 

 eleven females taken at Raleigh, July 18 to September 20, were secured 

 in pine woods, in pasture, in stubble field and at the edge of marsh 

 land. 



11 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, pp. 381-383. 



12 After numerous attempts to differentiate Scudder's Orphulella pratorum, 

 we are compelled to use the oldest available name and allow Scudder's name 

 to remain in abeyance, to be properly associated or relegated to the synonymy 

 at some future date. However, it might be well to state that in using the anten- 

 nal character given by Scudder (Canad. En torn., XXXI, p. 179) to separate 

 0. pratorum and pelidna, nearly every specimen from the eastern United States 

 which we have examined, and we have seen nearly a thousand individuals from 

 that region, would fall into pratorum. We have never seen any specimens of 

 Orphulella from Pennsylvania, the type locality of pelidna, except individuals 

 of 0. speciosa, while New Jersey specimens by Scudder's key would fall into 

 O. pratorum. It seems quite likely to us that the antennal length is an unsatis- 

 factory character. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



A single male of this species was taken in a wet spot in woods at 

 Bayville, Va., August 19, and two males from Raleigh, taken July 18 

 and 20, on low ground are in the collection. 



Morse has recorded the species from Norfolk, Ya., and Greensboro, 

 Salisbury and Raleigh, N, C. 

 Clinocephalus elegans Morse. 



In a wet meadow at New Berne, on August 24, and in wet spots 

 with tall grass in pine woods at Winter Park, August 26, this species 

 was found quite numerous, a series of four males, ten females and two 

 immature individuals being taken at the former locality and five males 

 and nine females at the latter. 



When compared with typical New Jersey specimens of C. elegans 

 and Florida specimens of typical and nearly typical C. e. pulcher the 

 North Carolina individuals are seen to be nearly intermediate, although 

 a shade nearer true elegans. The peculiar coloration found in some 

 individuals of C. e. pulcher is intimated in several specimens from 

 Winter Park, but these lack the extreme development in this line 

 occasionally found in the more southern form. The size is decidedly 

 larger than the average of typical elegans, but in the male sex pulcher 

 is distinctly larger than the North Carolina specimens of that sex. 



The measurements of a pan from Winter Park are as follows: 



Length of body 18 mm., 23.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4 " 4.6 " 



Length of tegmen 9.2 " 12 



Length of caudal femur 10.8 " 13.8 " 



Chloealtis conspersa Harris. 



A pair of this boreal species was taken by the junior author, a male 

 from an elevation of 4,500 feet on Mt. Pisgah, October 1, 1904. and a 

 female from the summit of Jones's Knob, Balsam Mountains, 6,200 

 feet elevation, October 7, 1905. Morse has recorded this species from 

 Jones's Peak (Jones's Knob) and Steestachee Bald in the Balsam 

 Mountains, at elevations of from 5,500 to 6,000 feet. These constitute 

 the only records for the species in North Carolina. 



Both specimens here recorded were taken amid the undergrowth of 

 deciduous forests. 



Chorthippus ourtipennis (Harris). 



Three males and four females of this species were secured at the 

 summit of Mt. Pisgah, elevation 5,740 feet, on October 1, 1904, where 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



it was the most plentiful species of the summit bald. Morse has 

 recorded the species from Balsam, 4,500-5,700 feet, Cranberry, Linville, 

 Grandfather Mountain, 4,500-5,000 feet, Roan Mountain and Roan 

 Valley. From these records, all at present known from the State of 

 North Carolina, it would seem that the species ranges in that State 

 from about 3,200 feet (Cranberry) probably to the highest points in 

 the State where suitable environment occurs. 

 Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister). 



The Sulphur Springs collection contains two males and five females 

 of this species taken September 9 to 29, while two males from Raleigh 

 taken Sei^tember 2, a pair from New Berne taken August 24 and two 

 females secured August 26, at Winter Park are in the collections. 

 At Winter Park it frequented spots in the pine woods and the labels 

 of the Raleigh material show it was secured at that place in pine woods 

 and in field of broomstraw. High open scrub near pine woods was 

 the habitat frequented at New Berne. 



The species has been recorded from a number of North Carolinan 

 localities, but the Winter Park and New Berne records are the first 

 from the coast region. 



Arphia sulphurea (Fabricius). 



At Sulphur Springs this species was taken on dates extending from 

 April 2 to June 13, a series of eighteen males and ten females being 

 secured. Raleigh is represented by ten males and three females 

 taken April 27 to May 19. On May 14, two males were taken at 

 5,700 feet elevation on the summit bald of Mt. Pisgah, this being the 

 highest point from which the species has been recorded in North 

 Carolina. 



Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 



This widely distributed species is represented by a series of ten 

 males and fifteen females from Sulphur Springs, taken on dates ranging 

 from April 13 to September 29. Two males and one female were also 

 taken on Mt. Pisgah at an elevation of 4,500 feet on October 1. Three 

 of the females in the Sulphur Springs series are extremely large for the 

 species, one of the three, which are quite uniform, measuring as 

 follows: length of body 31 mm.; length of pronotum 8: length of 

 tegmen 27.2; length of caudal femur 16.5. The remainder of the 

 series is nearer what might be called the usual size of the species. 

 But one male in the Sulphur Springs series is in the green phase, 

 although seven of the fifteen females are in the same condition. The 

 Mt. Pis ah female is in the green phase. 




030 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



Hippisous phoenicopterus (Burmeister). 



A series of ten males and four females from Sulphur Springs, taken 

 May S to June 13, 1904, and two males and one female from Raleigh, 

 secured May 19 to July 21, 1904, in old fields represent this species. 



Two males from Sulphur Springs and the female from Raleigh have 

 the head, pronotum and caudal femora greenish, a condition seen in 

 specimens from other localities and which is analogous to that noticed 

 in some individuals of the genus Gomphocerns. This species is one of 

 the forms which appears in the spring in company with Eritettix 

 simplex, Chortophaga viridifasciata, Arphia sulphured and Hippiscus 

 apiculoius in the open grassy areas. 



Hippiscus rugosus (Scudder). 



Sulphur Springs is represented in the series of this species by six 

 males and five females, taken September 2 to 29, while five males and 

 two females secured at Raleigh August 4 to September 2 in pasture 

 and broomstraw field are in the collection. Three males and four 

 females were taken at Winter Park, August 26 on sandy spots in pine 

 woods, where the species was numerous. The specimens from Winter 

 Park are particularly interesting in that while the males are no larger 

 than individuals of that sex from Sulphur Springs the females are 

 considerably larger, in this respect exceeding any seen by the authors. 



This species is now known to range on the Atlantic slope from 

 southern Maine (Norway) to northern Florida (Lake City). 

 Hippiscus apioulatus (Harris)." 



Twelve males and thirteen females, taken at Sulphur Springs April 

 13 to June 13, 1904, constitute the first record for the species from 

 North Carolina and the first in the east with definite data from south 

 of the District of Columbia, 



The subdecussate pale pronotal markings are mure or less marked 

 in twelve specimens. 



13 It is unfortunately necessary to substitute this name for ''Hippiscus tuber- 

 culatus" of authors, which is quoted from Acridium tuberculatum Palisot de 

 Beauvoi-s (Ins. Rec. d'Af. et Amer., p. 145, pi. 4, fig. 1) whose figure clearly pic- 

 tures this species, but who placed as a reference to the species Gryttus tuberculatus 

 Fabricius, an Old World species belonging to another genus, with which he 

 considered his material from the United States identical. In consequence his 

 name is not available and the next must be taken. Harris's Locusta apicutata 

 (In Hitchcock, Rep. Geol. Mass., 2d cd., p. 576, 1835) is merely a renaming of 

 Beauvois's species appearing in this form: 

 "Locusta L. 



apiculata. fuberculata P. de Beauv. F?" 



Although unaccompanied by a diagnosis, this name is clearly intended to 

 replace the misidentified tuberculatum of Beauvois, and as such we are under the 

 the necessity of using; it. 




1010.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus), 



A single female taken at New Berne, August 24, and one of the 

 same sex from 4,500 feet elevation on Mt. Pisgah, taken October 1, 

 1904, have been examined. 

 Spharagemon bolli Scudder. 



This species is represented by two males and four females from 

 Sulphur Springs, taken September 18-24, and three males and one 

 female from Raleigh taken August 19-September 9 in pinewoods. 



The Raleigh female is somewhat larger than the average of the 

 species. 



Scirtetioa picta (Scudder). 



This species was found on bare sandy spots in pinewoods at Winter 

 J 'ark, August 26, two males and four females being taken. These 

 specimens show an approach to S. marmorata, but this does not appear 

 to be as decided as in the case of Eure, North Carolina specimens 

 examined by Morse. 14 The two localities here given are the only 

 ones in North Carolina from which the species has been recorded, 

 though doubtless it occurs in all suitable locations in the eastern part 

 of the State. 



Psinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



On the dunes at Cape Henry, Ya., August 18, three males of this 

 ammophilous species were taken, while a pair was secured on bare 

 sandy spots in pine woods at Winter Park, August 26. 



The only previous North Carolina records were from Eure and 

 Tarboro. 



Trimerotropis maritima (Han is). 



One male and six females taken at Cape Henry, Ya., August 18, are 

 of particular interest, as they furnish additional evidence on Morse's 

 observations 15 regarding the presence at this locality of examples ap- 

 parently intermediate between T. maritima and T. citrina in addition to 

 typical examples of each. Two of the females distinctly tend toward T. 

 citrina in the color of the caudal tibiae, although the general coloration 

 and minor structural features are essentially the same as in maritima. 

 No typical citrina were taken by us at Cape Henry, where maritima 

 occurred on the bare strand and on the Ammophila covered dunes. 

 Trimerotropis oitrina Scudder. 



This species, which six years ago was known from east of the Missis- 

 sippi River by but one State record, has now been recorded in the 



14 Publ. No. 18, Carneg. Inst., p. 37. 



15 Publ. No. 18, Carneg. Inst. Wash., pp. 22 and 37. 



41 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



eastern and southeastern States from nearly fifty different localities. 

 In the collection before us is a series of eight males and three females 

 from Raleigh, taken July 8 to September 13, and two males and four 

 females from Sulphur Springs, secured September 27 and 29 ; 1905. 



The records of this species in the eastern States extend from Mary- 

 land to northern Florida (Pablo Beach, Jacksonville, Carrabelle, Ap- 

 alachicola, Ft. Barrancas and Warrington) and the coast of Mississippi 

 (Gulfport), vertically distributed from sea-level to at least 2,500 feet 

 (Sulphur Springs), wherever suitable environment occurs, the species 

 being distinctly xerophilous. The Raleigh individuals were taken 

 on sandy or dusty roads or at electric lights. This is a midsummer 

 species, only occasional tattered individuals being found as late as the 

 middle of September. 

 Leptysma marginicollis (ServiUe). 



This paludicolous species is represented by a series of ten males 

 and five females taken at Raleigh, on May 13 and September 9, 1904, 

 and a single immature male taken at New Berne, August 24, 190N. 

 The Raleigh specimens are fairly uniform in size. 



Sohistoceroa alutacea (Harris). 



At New Berne a single male of this species was taken in scrub near 

 pine woods on August 24, while three males and three females were 

 secured at Winter Park in dry spots in long-leaf pine woods, August 26. 

 The New Berne specimen is of the yellowish fasciate type, while the 

 Winter Park individuals are of the dull russet and vandyke brown 

 type, very similar in coloration and size to specimens from the pine 

 barren region of New Jersey. The Winter Park representatives all 

 lack the medio-longitudinal stripe. 



Sohistoceroa americana (Drury). 



This species is represented by five males, two taken at Sulphur 

 Springs, May 15 and June 5, 1904, two secured at the summit of Mt. 

 Pisgah, 5,700 feet elevation, October 4, 1904, and the fifth captured 

 at New Berne, August 24, 1908. 



Sohistoceroa damnifica (Saussure). 



A series of eleven males and six females taken at Sulphur Springs 

 on dates ranging from April 2 to May 15 and from September 18 to 29, 

 1904, and five males, and one female taken at Raleigh, March 9 to 

 April 13, and September 7, 1904, represent this species. The Sulphur 

 Springs males are rather small when compared with the Raleigh 

 individuals of that sex. At Sulphur Springs the specimens were all 

 captured in the undergrowth along the edge of the deciduous forest. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



This widely distributed species is represented by thirty-nine North 

 Carolina individuals distributed as follows: Raleigh, July 1-24. 

 July 22, August 3-15, September 22, twelve d\ eight 9 ; Lillington, 

 June 28, one cT ; Sulphur Springs, May 6, June 13, September 18-28, 

 six d\ three 9 ; Edenton, August 20, two cf, one 9 ; New Berne, 

 August 24, two <u , four 9. 

 Melanoplus scudderi (Uhler). 



This species is represented by a Raleigh series of seven males and 

 ten females, taken August 25 and September 2-22, 1904. These 

 specimens average about the same size as individuals from New Jersey. 

 Upland fields, pastures and pine woods were frequented by this species 

 at Raleigh. 

 Melanoplus oarnegiei Morse. 



This interesting form is represented by fourteen males and seventeen 

 females taken at Sulphur Springs, September 17-29 and October 7, 

 1904 and 1905. The series is fairly uniform in size and with but little 

 variation in general coloration. The only previous records for this 

 species are the original ones from Denmark and Spartanburg, S. C, 

 and Blue Ridge, Ga. In the vicinity of Sulphur Springs this was the 

 most abundant short-winged Melanoplus. It was found usually in 

 the undergrowth of the woods in the more open situations. 



Melanoplus deceptus Morse. 



In the Academy collection there is a single imperfect male of this 

 species from "Tennessee." The only previous records were from 

 Balsam (Jones's Peak), N. C, and Jasper, Ga. 



Melanoplus devius Morse. 



A series of six males and ten females from Sulphur Springs taken 

 September 9 to 29, 1904-1905, and two males, seven females and one 

 immature individual taken on the higher wooded slopes (5,000 feet) 

 of Mt. Pisgah, October 1, 1904, represent this species, previously 

 known only from Wytheville, Va., and Topton, X. C. Both lot- 

 exhibit some individual variation in size, although this is more pro- 

 nounced in the Sulphur Springs specimens, particularly the males. 

 However, the original measurements given by Morse cover the extremes 

 in size before us, the Pisgah females averaging very slightly smaller 

 than Sulphur Springs individuals of the same sex. The Pisgah males 

 are so few in number that comparison of that sex is of little value, but 

 measurements of the females from both localities show that the 

 apparently shorter femora of the Pisgah females is much more than a 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



mere proportional reduction. The average difference is 1.4 mm., 

 the Sulphur Springs specimens averaging 12.9 (12.5-13.5), the Pisgah 

 series 11.5 (11.2-11.8). The Mt. Pisgah specimens are, as a rule, 

 darker and somewhat less contrasted than the Sulphur Springs series. 

 The length of the furcula is, as stated by Morse, quite variable. 



The species was never found in the least plentiful about Sulphur 

 Springs. Its habitat proved to be constantly sylvan. 

 Melanoplus decorus Scudder. 



This little-known species is represented by six males and one female 

 from Winter Park, taken August 26, 1908, and four males from New- 

 Berne, August 24, 1908. In size there is quite a little variation as the 

 caudal femora of the males range between 9.5 and 11.2 millimetres 

 in length. The general coloration varies appreciably from a general 

 gamboge-yellow to fawn color, while the coloration of the face varies 

 from uniform with the body to walnut-brown. The blackish coloration 

 of the tubercle of the subgenital plate of the male is quite striking. 



The previously unique types were taken at Dingo Bluff, N. C. 



At New Berne the species occurred in a piece of moist meadow land. 

 and at Winter Park it frequented high grass in wet spots in long-leaf 

 pine woods. The species was scarce at New Berne, but more numerous 

 at Winter Park. 



Melanoplus ampleotens Scudder. 



At Balsam this species was found at elevations of from 3,500 to 4,000 

 feet on October 7, 1905. while the same day it was secured at 5,000 

 feet elevation on Jones's Knob. On October 1. 1904, it was taken at 

 4,500 feet and 5,700 feet (summit) on Mt. Pisgah. Balsam is repre- 

 sented by two males and eight females, Jones's Knob by two males and 

 three females and Mt. Pisgah by two males and six females. 



Morse has already called attention to the variability of this species, 

 and our material substantiates his remarks. The variation in the 

 length of the tegmina is very considerable in some specimens, the 

 extremes of the males measuring 4.2 and 7 mm., of the females 5.5 

 and 8, all measured being from Mt. Pisgah except the male with shortest 

 tegmina, which is from Balsam. All the specimens of this species 

 were found in distinctly sylvan surroundings where grass was present 

 in some quantities, excepting in the case of those taken on the summit 

 bald of Mt. Pisgah. 



Melanoplus divergens Morse. 



Three males and three females of this species taken at Balsam, 

 4,000 feet elevation, on October 7, 1905, are practically topotypes. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G35 



Morse's specimens having been secured at 5,000-6,000 feet at the same 

 locality. The males all exceed the maximum body length given by 

 Morse by at least 4 millimeters, but the other measurements of that 

 sex and of the female are around Morse's maximum. These specimens 

 were all taken in a grassy glade covered with a scattering growth of 

 deciduous trees. 

 Melanoplus femur-rubmm (DeGeer). 



All the North Carolina material of the femur-rubrum series seen 

 is referable to De Geer's species, although the more austral propinquus 

 has been recorded from the State. The series before us includes the 

 first records from the coastal section of the States, the localities repre- 

 sented being: New Berne, August 24, 1908, two males; Edenton, 

 August 20, 1908, two males, three females; Raleigh, August 20, Sep- 

 tember 4-10, four males, six females; Sulphur Springs, September 

 18-27 and October 6, 1904, eight males and six females. 



At Edenton it was found in grassy drains and in high weeds, and at 

 New Berne in meadow land. 

 Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas). 



This interesting species was found generally distributed, but scarce 

 in pine woods at Winter Park, August 26, where three males and three 

 females were taken. Raleigh is represented in our series by one male 

 and three females taken in pine woods, broomstraw and upland field 

 on August 19 and September 13 and 22, 1904. 



These specimens are very slightly smaller than individuals from 

 Pablo Beach, Fla., but equal to or very slightly larger than the meas- 

 urements given by Scudder in his Revision of the Melanopli. The 

 only localities for this species from the State in addition to the above 

 are Smithville, Dingo Bluff and "North Carolina." 



Melanoplus luridus (Dodge). 



A series of twenty-seven specimens represent this species, distributed 

 as follows: Balsam, 3,500-4,000 feet, October 7, 1904, four males, 

 two females; Jones's Knob, Balsam Mountains, October 7, 1905, five 

 males, one female; Mt. Pisgah, 4,500 feet, October 1, 1904, eight males, 

 seven females. Morse has recorded the species from a number of 

 localities in the mountains of North Carolina. This appears to be the 

 most plentiful species of Melanoplus on all the mountains of this region 

 at altitudes above 4,000 feet. 



Melanoplus femoratus (Burmeister). 



A single male of this species taken at Sulphur Springs, June 2, 1904. 

 is in the collection. Morse has recorded it from the same localitv. 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.. 



Paroxya atlantica Scudder. 



At New Berne a single female of this species was taken in wet 

 meadow land on August 24. while at Winter Park it was fairly numer- 

 ous in wet grassy depressions in pine woods, where, on August 26 ? 

 seven males and two females were secured. 



The specimens show a decided approach to the more northern form 

 Scudderi, which is probably but a geographic race, the tegmina and 

 caudal limbs in the North Carolina individuals being somewhat 

 shorter than in Plorida specimens. 



This is the first record of the species from North Carolina. 

 Paroxya floridiana (Thorn 



This moisture-loving species is represented by one male and two 

 females from Raleigh, taken August 22 and September 9, 1904, two 

 females from Edenton. taken August 20, and two of the same sex 

 from New Berne, secured August 24. At Edenton and New Berne 

 it occurred on grasses in wet drains, while the Raleigh specimens are 

 labelled "swamp" and "edge of marsh." 



TETTIGONIID^E. 

 Soudderia texensis Saussure ami Zehntner. 



A male <>!' this species, taken at Xew Heine. August 24. an individual 

 of the same sex from Raleigh, taken August .">(). and a female from 

 Winter Park, taken August 26, are in the collection. The Xew Berne 

 specimen was taken in scrubby undergrowth at the edge of open 

 pine woods, at Winter Park it occurred in pine woods, while at Raleigh 

 the species was secured in a broomstraw field. The present records 

 are the first from North Carolina. 



Scudderia curvicauda (DeGeer). 



A single female of this species from Raleigh, taken August 30, in 

 pine woods, has been examined. 



Scudderia furcata Brunner. 



Three males and three females from Raleigh, taken in pine woods 

 September 2-7, 1904, one male and three females from Sulphur Springs, 

 September 17-28, 1904-5, and a pair from Bayville, Ya., taken in 

 mixed woods undergrowth, August 19, represent this species. Pre- 

 vious to this writing Raleigh was the only exact locality in the Atlantic- 

 States between Xew Jersey and southern Georgia from which the 

 species had been recorded. 



Scudderia cuneata Morse. 



A male of this species from Raleigh represents the most northerly- 

 point at which the species has been taken. It was secured September 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



9, 1904, and is labelled "edge of marsh." No doubt this is the form 

 recorded by Brimley as S. furcifcra, 16 which latter might readily be 

 mistaken for this species, although its range is entirely southwestern 

 and Mexican. 



The previous records of cuneata are Alabama (type locality), Thomas- 

 ville, Ga,, and Pablo Beach and Miami, Fla. It is apparently a purely 

 Lower Austral form. 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia (DeGeer). 



A single male taken at New Berne, August 24, and another individual 

 of the same sex taken at Bayville, Va., August 19, represent this 

 species. At the former locality the species was taken in high weeds 

 along a wet drain and at the latter it was secured in mixed woods 

 undergrowth. These records are the first from either State. 

 Amblycorypha rotundifolia cSeudder). 



This interesting species is represented by two specimens taken at 

 high elevations, one, a female, from 6,000 feet on Jones's Knob. Balsam 

 Mountains, October 7, 1905, the other, a male, from 5,740 feet on Mt. 

 Pisgah, Pisgah Ridge, October 1, 1904. These individuals show no 

 points of difference from Indiana specimens. The specimen from Mt. 

 Pisgah was beaten from the low bushes growing on the summit bald, 

 while the individual from Jones's Knob was found in the forest under- 

 growth. 



Aside from one record from Georgia, these are the only positive 

 records of the species from the South Atlantic States. 



Amblycorypha uhleri St41. 



Three males taken at Raleigh, August 20-September 4, 1904, in 

 pine woods and at light, and a single male secured at Winter Park, 

 August 26, 1908, in wire grass in pine woods, represent this austral 

 species. The Winter Park specimen has a somewhat larger tympanum 

 than the other specimens and the pronotum is also relatively broader 

 caudo-dorsad, but it is not separable from other specimens of the 

 species examined. The same individual is yellowish in coloration 

 instead of green, the color being extremely protective in the dry wire 

 grass. The two localities given above are the only ones in the State 

 from which the species has been recorded, Brimley having already 

 recorded it from the first-mentioned. 

 Microcentrum rhombifolium (Saussure). 



A single female from Raleigh, taken August 25, 1904, and an indi- 



" Ent. News, XIX, p. 19. 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



vidua! of the same sex from Sulphur Springs, taken September 14, 1004, 

 represent this species. 



These records are the first with exact data from the State. 



Microcentrum retinerve (Burmeister). 



An interesting series of this species, consisting of seventeen males 

 and one female, taken at Sulphur Springs, September 22-October 8, 

 1004-1005, is in the collection. This series is uniform in size and in 

 all the males the tympanum is washed with two shades of brown 

 proximad of the stridulating rem, which is also unifoimly of the 

 lighter shade of brown. 



These specimens were all captured after dark attracted to light. 

 No exact record of the occurrence of the species in North Carolina 

 has been previously published. 



Neoconooephalus mexicanus (Snussure). 



Two females of this species, one from Raleigh, taken May 13, 100-1, 

 the other from Sulphur Springs secured, September 18, 1004, represent 

 this austral species. These localities are the only ones in the State 

 at which the species has been taken, the previous records being 

 "North Carolina" (Karny) and Brimley's Raleigh information. The 

 Sulphur Springs individual was attracted to light at night and so 

 captured. 



Heooonocephalus palustris (BlatcWey). 



A single male from Raleigh, taken in wet meadows, August 4, 1004, 

 is in the collection. Brimley has recorded it from this locality, which 

 is the only one in the Southern States at which the species has been 

 Becured. 



Neoconocephalus retusus atlanticus (Bruner). 



The material examined in the present connection corroborates the 

 opinion previously expressed by us 17 regarding the relationship of 

 retusus and atlanticus. The series before us consists of six males and 

 one female taken at Sulphur Springs, September 18 to October 6, 

 1004-1005, and four males and two females from Raleigh taken August 

 31 -September 7, 1004. at light, in garden and in grassy places ii\ 

 pine woods. A single immature female taken at Bayville, Ya., 

 August 10, 1008, has also been examined. The Sulphur Springs 

 series shows both color phases and is quite uniform in size, being 

 almost typical atlanticus, as determined by comparison with paratypes. 

 The Raleigh series is all in the green phase and shows little individual 



17 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sri. Phila., 1907, p. 303. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



size variation, but very strongly approaches retusus in the longer 

 limbs and ovipositor. This tendency is so great that the specimens 

 are almost intermediate in character and can hardly be referred more 

 to one than to the other. 



As this interesting case can well be demonstrated b}^ figures, the 

 following measurements made from average individuals, when taken 

 with those previously given by us, 18 show the extent of geographic 

 size variation in this species: 



Asheville, N.C. Raleigh, N.C. \\ aycross.Ga. 



Length of body 23 mm., 24.5 mm., 26 mm. 



Length of pronotum 7 " 7.2 " 7.8 " 



Length of tegmen 33 " 35 " 35.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 19 " 20.8 " 23.5 " 



9 



Asheville, N.C. Raleigh, N.C. Waycross,Ga. 



Length of body 29. mm., 24.5 19 mm., 29.5 mm, 



Length of pronotum 6.8 " 6.8 " 7.5 " 



Length of tegmen 33.5 " 34. " 41.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 21.8 " 24.2 " 28 



Length of ovipositor 32.5 " 35 " 38.5 " 



True N. retusus has been recorded from "Georgia," Way cross and 

 Thomasville, Ga., St. Augustine and Chokoloskee, Fla. The record 

 of atlanticus at Thomasville, Ga., made by the authors, 20 is errone- 

 ous, due to the non-association of the sexes, the record of atlanticus 

 being based on males and that of retusus from the same locality on 

 the easily recognizable female. A male of atlanticus from Montgomery 

 County, Virginia, in the Hebard collection, has also been examined 

 by us. 



Orchelimum militare Rehn and He bard. 



A single male of this species was taken in high grass in moist spots 

 in pine woods at Winter Park on August 26. The specimen is 

 distinctly smaller than Georgia individuals, but otherwise it is quite 

 typical. The range of the species is carried a considerable distance 

 northward by the capture of this specimen. 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister), 



A pair of this species was taken in meadow land at New Berne, on 

 August 24, a single female in high grass in wet spot in pine woods at 



"Supra, p. 304. 



18 Hodv considerably shrunken. 



J0 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 795. 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



Winter Park, August 26, two males in a wet drain at Edenton, August 

 20, and one adult and one immature female in undergrowth in woods 

 at Bayville, Ya., August 19. A single male from Raleigh taken 

 August 30, at edge of marsh, is also in the collection. 



The specimens from North Carolina all have the head more or less 

 decidedly reddish, and should be regarded as representing 0. erythro- 

 cephalum Davis if this is considered a valid species, which the present 

 authors believe is not the case. Sufficient material is in hand, from 

 about a dozen localities ranging from New Jersey to north-central 

 Florida to demonstrate to our satisfaction the great amount of indi- 

 vidual variation in this species in the coloring of the head as well as 

 that of the dorsum of the pronotum. The emphasis placed on the 

 ■characters separating erythrocephalum from vulgare in the original de- 

 scription of the former, tends to mislead one, as vulgare is quite distinct 

 in cereal and other characters and glaberrimum with which 

 the specimens of erythrocephalum should have been compared is not 

 mentioned. 



Regarding the presence or absence of spines on the ventral carinae 

 of the caudal femora, the following notes made from fourteen specimens 

 of this species may be of interest: three specimens have 0-0, one 0-1, 

 two 0-2, one 0-3, four 1-2, one 1-4, one 2-4, one 3-3. In size the 

 species regularly increases southward, north-central Florida specimens 

 being extremely large when compared with New Jersey, Delaware 

 and Maryland individuals. Thomasville, (la., representatives are 

 hardly smaller than Jacksonville and other north Florida indi- 

 viduals, while North Carolina specimens are about intermediate in 

 size between those from Georgia and Delaware. As has already been 

 pointed out by the present authors, the length of the tegmina is quite 

 variable. 



Orchelimum agile (DeGeer). 81 



A series of eleven males and two females taken at Sulphur Springs, 

 September 17-29, 1904 and 1905, and a single female taken at Raleigh, 

 September 17, 1904, in upland pasture represent this species. The 

 diversity in size in the Sulphur Springs series is considerable, aside 



21 After carefully examining the literature bearing on the identity of the 

 much-discussed Locusta agilis De Geer, we are compelled to retire Harris's vulgare 

 in favor of the much older De Geerian name, which we believe to be undoubtedly 

 based on the same insect. De Geer's locality was Pennsylvania and Harris's 

 Massachusetts, and a comparison of material from the two States shows no 

 reason for their separation. De Geer's figure is, to us, sufficient to fix the species. 

 We are also of the opinion that Orchelimum gracile Harris is a synonym of 

 Conocephalus fasciatus (De Geer). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 641 



from the length of the tegmina and wings which vary independently 

 of general size. The coloration, however, does not vary in as marked 

 a degree, being chiefly limited to the depth of infuscation of the 

 median portion of the pronotal bar. The Raleigh female and one 

 Sulphur Springs male are ochraceous instead of greenish or greenish- 

 yellow in general color. 



A single specimen of this species from Montgomery County, Virginia, 

 in the Hebard Collection is the only record of the species from that 

 State. Brimley has recorded the species from North Carolina at 

 Raleigh. 



Orohelimum molossum Rehn and Hebard. 



This species, which was previously known only from northern 

 Florida (Pablo Beach and Gainesville) and Georgia (Thomasville 

 and Thompson's Mills), is represented by two males and two females 

 taken in a wet drain at Edenton, August 20, a single female taken in 

 high weeds on moist ground at New Berne, August 2-1, and five males 

 and one female taken at Raleigh, September 4-31, 1904. In all 

 probability the record of the closely allied 0. nitidum at Raleigh made 

 by Brimley 22 really relates to this species. A specimen from Ros- 

 lyn, Va., in the Academy's collection, taken in September by Mr. 

 Caudell, shows this species to range to the vicinity of Washington. 

 The North Carolina specimens exhibit considerable individual varia- 

 tion in size, but as is the case with 0. glaberrimum, the average indi- 

 dual from Virginia and North Carolina is smaller than Georgia and 

 Florida examples. The paired pronotal lines are sometimes absent, 

 and vary considerably in intensity when present. 



Orchelimum minor Bruner. 



This beautiful species is represented by three males taken in low 

 pines, fifteen to -twenty feet from the ground at Sulphur Springs, 

 September 2 and October 6, 1905, and a single female from Raleigh, 

 taken September 20, 1904. Material has also been examined in this 

 connection from Thompson Mills, Ga., and Atsion, N. J., the latter 

 taken October 8, 1903, by the junior author. 



The five males before us show very little individual variation in 

 size, and as no measurements have ever been published for the species 

 it seems desirable to give the more important ones of the specimens 

 before us. 



22 Ent. News, XIX. p. 20. ; 




642 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov. 



O 



7* 



The coloration is very rich and is more contrasted in the female 

 than in the opposite sex. The colors vary but little in intensity in 

 the five males, the green alone being slightly weaker in one individual 

 than in the others. The paired yellowish lines on the dorsum of the 

 abdomen are pronounced in most of the specimens, but distinct in alL 



The range of this arboreal species is now known to extend from 

 southern New Jersey south to north-central Georgia, Sulphur Springs 

 being at the highest elevation (2.500 feet) from which the species has 

 been recorded. 



Orchelimum spinulosum (Redtenbacher). 



Three males and one female from Raleigh, taken September 9, 1004 

 from grassy edge of marsh, belong to this species, described from 

 "North Carolina" and since unreported. Specimens from Chestnut 

 Hill, Philadelphia and Tinicum, Pa., taken by the authois, show the 

 range of the species to extend considerably to the northward. 



Orchelimum pulchellum Davis. 



A pair taken at Raleigh, August 22 and 30, 1904. in a cat-tail swamp 

 and at edge of marsh and a single male taken in a wet drain at Eden- 

 ton, August 20, represent this species. Originally described from 

 Dennisville, Helmetta and Trenton, N. J., this beautiful species is now 

 known to range from north-central New Jersey (Helmetta) to 

 eastern North Carolina. The original describer compared the species 

 with nigripes, but its relationship is not with that species, the cerci 

 being decidedly different. It is, in fact, much nearer to 0. spinulo- 

 sum and less closely to O. minor, the form of the cerci being of much 

 the same type in the three. The Raleigh individuals are somewhat 

 larger than the Eclenton specimen. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



Conocephalus strictus (Scudder). 



Xiphidium strictum of authors. 



Three adult females taken at Raleigh, September 9-20, 190-1, and 

 two adult and three immature females secured at New Berne, August 

 24, 1908. belong to this species. At the former locality the species 

 occurred in pasture, in broomstraw field and in grass along edge of 

 marsh, while at New Berne it was taken in a piece of open meadow 

 land. 



The only previous record of the occurrence of the species in the 

 southeastern States is Brimley's Raleigh note. 



Conocephalus ensiferus (Scudder). 



Xiphidium ensiferum of authors. 



This species is represented by a series of eight males and eight 

 females taken at Sulphur Springs, September 2-29, 1905, and five 

 males and five females secured at Raleigh, August 16 to September 

 9, 1904. At Raleigh it was secured at electric lights, at grassy edge 

 of marsh, in grassy places in pine woods and in broomstraw field. 



A pair from Raleigh and one female from Sulphur Springs are long- 

 winged. The individuals before us vary but little in size. The 

 localities cited above are, with the addition of Fort Reed. Fla.. the 

 only ones in the southeastern States from which the species is known. 

 The Fort Reed record was based on immature material and, as inti- 

 mated at the time, may belong to another species. 



Conocephalus fasciatus (DeGeer). 



Xiphidium fasciatum of authors. 



This widely distributed species is represented in the present series 

 by two males and one female from Sulphur Springs, September 18-28, 

 1904; three males and two females from Raleigh, August 15 to Sep- 

 tember. 1904; a pair from New Berne, August 24, 1908, and a single 

 female from Edenton, August 20, 1908. These localities are the only 

 ones in North Carolina at which the species has been captured. 



Conocephalus brevipennis (Scudder). 



Xiphidium brevipenne of authors. 



A single female from Edenton, August 20, 1908, and another speci- 

 men of the same sex from New Berne, August 24, 1908, represent this 

 well-known species. With the addition of Brimley's Raleigh record 

 one has all the known data on the occurrence of the species in North 

 Carolina. At Edenton it was taken in a wet drain and at New Berne 

 it occurred in open meadow land. 



Five males from Bayville. Va.. August 19, and one male from 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.. 



Cape Henry, Va., August IS, have also been examined. At the 

 former locality it occurred in low growth in mixed woods and at the 

 latter among dune growth. 



Conocephalus saltans (Scudder). 



Xiphidium saltans of authors. 



One male and three females from Sulphur Springs, September 

 18 to 28, 1904-1905, represent this species. The only previous records 

 for the southeastern States are from Raleigh. N. C. and Thomas- 

 ville, Ga. 



Conocephalus nemoralis (Scudder). 



Xiphidium nemorale of authors. 



This easily recognized species is represented by a series of fifteen 

 males and eight females, taken at Sulphur Springs, September 2 to 

 October 6, 1904-1905. ( )ne female is long-winged, the bold pattern 

 of the venation found in this species being proportionately more 

 pronounced, giving this individual a peculiar appearance. Both 

 sexes vary considerably in size, but in no case does this seem to be 

 decided enough to prevent ready recognition of the species. 



This is the only record of the species from the South Atlantic States. 



Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse. 



A single female of this species from Winter Park, taken August 26 

 in high grass in a wet spot in pine woods, considerably extends the 

 range of this species northward. All the previously known records 

 are of captures in Georgia and Florida. The Winter Park specimen 

 is somewhat smaller than Pablo Peach, Fla., individuals, but other- 

 wise inseparable. The specimen secured was the only one of the 

 species seen. 



Atlanticus dorsalis (Bunueister), 



Four females of this species taken at Sulphur Springs, September 

 24, 1904, constitute the first record of the species, occurrence in North 

 Carolina. The specimens were captured in the forest undergrowth 

 and were the only ones noticed about the locality. 

 Attentions pachymerus (Burmeister). 



A single male of this species was secured at an elevation of six 

 thousand feet on Jones's Knob, Balsam Mountains, October 7, 1905. 

 It was taken in the forest undergrowth. 



GRYLLIDJE. 

 Ellipes minuta (Scudder). 



Two individuals of this species were taken at Sulphur Springs, 

 June 12, 1904 on damp sand beside a stream. Brimley has recorded 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



645 



this species from Raleigh, the only previous record from either of the 

 Carolinas. 



Nemobius fasciatus (Do Geer). 



From a careful study of a considerable series of material belonging 

 to this and the following form, it seems necessary to consider them but 

 geographic races of one and the same species. The evidence of inter- 

 gradation is so great that it is almost impossible to place specimens 

 from certain localities in one or the other of the two forms. As the 

 only character by which socius could be separated from fasciatus is 

 the length of the ovipositor relative to that of the caudal femur, the 

 following measurements of the female individuals in the present series,, 

 in addition to some typical specimens of socius from other localities, 

 mav be of interest. 



* T = Thomasville, Ga. 



C = Cedar Keys, Fla. 



R = Raleigh, N. C. 



S = Sulphur Springs, N. C. 



P = Mt. PLsgah, N. C. 



B = Bayville, Va. 

 Each letter indicates a specimen. 



One series consists of five females from Sulphur Springs, secured 

 September 17 and 24, 1904, and thirteen males and four females from 

 4,500 feet elevation on Mt. Pisgah, captured October 1, 1904. A 




<3-t6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



single female from Bayville, Va., August 19, 1908, has also been 

 examined. Of these specimens but one male is macropterous (Mt. 

 Pisgah) and but one female (Mt. Pisgah) has tegmina almost as long 

 as the body. 



The Pisgah and Sulphur Springs lots each contain a single specimen 

 having the ovipositor slightly shorter than the caudal femur, but as 

 this is the exception and not the rule, we have considered the material 

 from those localities to be N. fasciatus, while in our Raleigh series 

 but one in seven has the ovipositor longer than the caudal femur, so 

 we have placed the latter locality's representatives under N. fasciatus 

 socius. The specimens tabulated above show the following differences 

 in the proportion of these two parts: 



Ovipositor longer ( + ) or shorter (—) than caudal femur. 



Bayville, Va 8 mm. + 



Mt. Pisgah, X. C 5 mm. + 



1.2 mm. + 



8 mm. + 



" 3 mm. — 



Sulphur Springs, N. C 1.0 mm. + 



" 3 mm. + 



3mm. + 



" 8 mm. — 



Raleigh, N. C 5 mm. - 



" 3 mm. — 



" 2 mm. + 



2 mm. - 



8 mm. - 



8mm. - 



2 mm. - 



Cedar Keys, Fla 3 mm. — 



Thomasville, Ga 8 mm. — 



" 7 mm. — 



" 4 mm. — 



1 .0 mm. - 



The Sulphur Springs specimens are paler, more rufous and with 

 more decided pattern than the other and more usual specimens. These 

 may represent N. canus Scudder, but the structural characters given 

 for that form do not hold in the present specimens, so it seems more 

 desirable to consider them slightly aberrant fasciatus. A number of 

 such pale colored individuals from Massachusetts, New Jersey and 

 .Maryland have been examined by us. 



Typical Nemobius fasciatus appears to be replaced in the entire 

 Power Austral zone of the southeastern States by A r . fasciatus socius 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .647 



although, as shown above, material from the borderland of the two 

 forms is more or less intermediate in character. 



Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



This southern race of N. fasciatus is represented by two males and 

 eight females from Raleigh, taken July 8-18, August 16-30 and 

 September 2-20, 1904, and one male from New Berne, secured August 

 24, 1909. Of this series one pair from Raleigh are macropterous, the 

 remainder being brachypterous. 



The Raleigh specimens were taken in pine woods, in stubble and 

 broomstraw field, in grass around edge of marsh and at electric lights. 



Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 



Two males from Sulphur Springs, taken September 24, 1904, and 

 two individuals of the same sex from Raleigh, secured September 15, 

 1904, are referred to this species after comparison with typical Indiana 

 material. 



This is the first authentic record of the species for the southeastern 

 States. 23 



At Raleigh the species was taken at the edge of a marsh. 



Nemobius oarolinus Scudder. 



One male and two females from Balsam, taken at an elevation of 

 3,500 feet on October 7, 1905, and a pair from Raleigh, secured August 

 4 and September 5, 1904, represent this species. 



The Raleigh specimens are somewhat larger than the Balsam 

 individuals and the male proves the occurrence of macropterism in 

 this species, the other representatives being of the usual brachypterous 

 type. 



At Raleigh the species was taken from under a plank in a garden 

 and at light in house, while at Balsam the specimens were captured 

 among damp grasses in the heavy deciduous forest. 



The only previous North Carolina record is that of the types, which 

 had no exact locality. 



Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burmeister. 



A series of six males and three females taken at Sulphur Springs, 

 May 10-27 and June 5 and 13. are before us. 

 Gryllus neglectus Scudder. 



Two males and two females taken at 4.500 feet elevation and on the 

 summit bald of Mt. Pisgah, October 1. 1904, are referable to this form, 



23 The record of this species from Thomasville, Ga., made by the authors 

 (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 799) is erroneous, the material having 

 been brachypterous individuals of N. fasciatus socius. 



42 




648 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



which appears worthy of some designation whether specific or varietal. 

 The measurements of these specimens are as follows: 



Length of body 16.5 mm., 15.5 mm., 20 mm., 18 mm. 



Length of tegmen 9 " 9.8 " 9 " 7.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 10 " 10.8 " 11 " 11.5 " 



Length of ovipositor 13 " 12.5 " 



The original measurements of this species for some reason are 

 erroneous, this being the case with all the species of Gryllus measured 

 in the same paper, 24 the dimensions being little more than half the 

 usual size of the forms. Allowance for this may cause the synony- 

 mizing with neglectus, of Blatchley's Gryllus amerieanus, the chief 

 diagnostic characters of which, when compared w r ith pennsylvanicus 

 and abbreviatus, were stated to be the slender build, short tegmina and 

 ovipositor. When compared with an authentic pair of amerieanus in 

 the Academy's collection the Mt. Pisgah individuals are slightly larger 

 but otherwise inseparable. 

 Gryllus rubens Scudder. 



This southern form is represented by a series of nine males and 

 fourteen females from Raleigh, taken on dates ranging from April 16 

 to June 21 and also on September 7 and 13, 1904, a single male from 

 Sulphur Springs taken June 5, a single male from Edenton, secured 

 August 20 and one female from New Berne taken August 24. 



There is a very great amount of individual variation in size in both 

 sexes, the proportions of thirteen females from Raleigh being as 

 follows : 



34 Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VII, pp. 427-429. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



The above-mentioned records are the first for the species from 

 North Carolina. At Raleigh it occurred in gardens, pastures, in 

 broomstraw fields, in open places in woods and under rubbish, while 

 at Edenton it was taken among weeds in a wet spot. 

 (Eoanthus angustipennis Fitch. 



A single male from Sulphur Springs, taken September 29, 1904, is 

 the first record of the species from North Carolina. An immature 

 individual secured at Bayville, Va., August 19, 1908, constitutes the 

 first Virginia record for the species. 

 CEcanthus latipennis Riley. 



A female individual in the istar preceding the adult condition taken 

 August 19, 1998, at Bayville, Va., is the first record of the species in 

 that State. It was taken in pine woods undergrowth. 

 (Eoanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmiiller. 



Four males and two females from Raleigh, taken June 29, August 

 30 and September 22. 1904, and one female from Sulphur Springs, 

 September 24, 1904, represent this species. At Raleigh it occurred 

 on garden weeds, in broomstraw and in upland fields. 



Two males and one female were taken in heavy tangles among low 

 dunes at Cape Henry, Va., August 18, 1908, these constituting the 

 first Virginia record for the species. 



(Eoanthus nigricornis Walker.- 5 



Two females taken at Raleigh, September 7 and 22, 1904. represent 

 this rather robust species. One was taken in an upland field, the 

 other from alders along stream in pine woods. 



This is the first record of the species from North Carolina. 

 Anaxipha exigua (Say). 



Three males and two females taken at Raleigh, August 30 and 

 September 9, 1904, belong to this species. Two males and two females 

 secured at Bayville, Va., August 19, 1908, constitute the first record 

 of the species in the latter State. At Raleigh it was captured in 

 grasses around edge of swamp, while at Bayville it was taken in tall 

 grass and brush in a wet spot in pine w r oods. 



Phylloscyrtus pulchellus (Uhler). 



This beautiful species is represented by three males and two females 

 taken at Raleigh, September 9, 1904, and a single female captured at 



25 We find it impossible to use the name fasciatus for this species, as Fitch 

 did not propose it as a new name, but merely erroneously identified De Geer's 

 Gryllus fasciatus which is clearly a Nemobius. After examining the literature, 

 we fully agree with previous authors who have reached this conclusion. 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



New Berne, August 24, 1904. A pair from Bayville, Va., secured 

 August 19, 190S. are the first individuals of the species recorded from 

 that State. 



At Bayville it occurred in company with Anaxipha exigua in a 

 grassy and bushy wet spot in pine woods; at New Berne it was cap- 

 tured in rank growth along a drain and at Raleigh it was also taken 

 with Anaxipha on bushes bordering swampy land. 

 Hapithus agitator Uhler. 



A pair of specimens from Raleigh, taken in pine woods September 

 7, 1904, are particularly interesting as they are practically intermediate 

 between H. agitator and H. quad ml us. There seems to be little doubt 

 but that quadratics is a southern race of agitator, the differential 

 characters being the greater size, the proportionately longer legs and 

 more complex venation. The Raleigh individuals have distinctly 

 longer legs than specimens of true agitator, though their general rela- 

 tionship appears to be very slightly nearer the northern form. Taken 

 with the measurements already given by the authors, 26 the proportions 

 of the Raleigh specimens may be of interest. 



c? 9 



Length of bod}' 10.5 mm., 11.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 1.8 " 2 " 



Length of tegmen 6.3 " 7.5 " 



Length of caudal femur 8.5 " 9.3 " 



Length of ovipositor 7.5 " 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 31*. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



651 



A NEW ALBULOID FISH FROM SANTO DOMINGO. 



BY HEXRY W. FOWLER. 



DIXONINA gen. nov. 

 Type Dixonina nemoptera sp. nov. 



Body elongate, robust, fusiform. Head elongate, slender, com- 

 pressed, attenuate. Snout conic, pyramidal, well protruded beyond 

 mandible. Eye moderate. Adipose eyelid well developed. Mouth 

 large, horizontal. Maxillary strong, large, nearly to middle in head 

 length, slips below broad membranous preorbital. Premaxillaries 

 moderate, non-protractile. Lateral edge of upper jaw formed by 

 maxillary. Jaws, vomer and palatines with villiform teeth. Coarse 



blunt paved teeth in broad areas on basibranchial, sphenoid and 

 pterygoid bones. Tongue broad. Nostrils small, together. Inter- 

 orbital and head above mostly depressed. Opercle moderate, firm. 

 Preopercle with posterior membranous edge more produced behind 

 below. Rakers short asperous tubercles, few in number. Pseudo- 

 branchiae present. Gill-membranes entirely separate, free from 

 isthmus, fold across anteriorly with its hind edge plicate. No gular 

 plate. Body covered with rather small brilliantly silvered scales, 

 head naked, and fins minutely scaled. Belly convex, covered with 

 usual squamation. Lateral line complete. Dorsal moderate, inserted 

 well before ventral. Anal well behind dorsal, small. Pectoral small, 

 also ventral. Coloration uniform. 




1352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



This interesting genus is the second known among the living repre- 

 sentatives of the family Albalidce. From Albula, with its single 

 alleged exotic species ranging through all tropical seas, it differs at 

 once in the last rays of both the dorsal and anal being produced in 

 long filaments, and its more slender head with a longer maxillary. 



Named for Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., President of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, in slight recognition of his appre- 

 ciation and encouragement of ichthyology. 

 Dixonina nemoptera sp. now 



Head 3£; depth 4f ; D. v, 16, i; A. m, 6, i; P. i, 16; V. i, 8; 76 

 scales in 1. 1. to caudal base (squamation injured); 9 scales obliquely 

 back from dorsal origin to 1. 1.; 7 scales obliquely forward from anal 

 origin to 1. 1.; 30 predorsal scales; head width 2'j in head length; head 

 depth at occiput ly^; snout 2f ; eye 5§; snout tip to maxillary end 

 2 T V; mandible 2f; interorbital 4i; first branched dorsal ray If; last 

 dorsal ray l T n „; first branched anal ray of; last anal ray 3J; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 4^; pectoral 2; ventral 2f. 



Body fusiform, rather robust or thick, sides flattened, upper profile 

 apparently more convex than lower, deepest at dorsal origin, edges 

 all rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth about If its 

 length. 



Head moderately compressed, robust, surfaces above and below 

 rather depressed and but slightly convex, sides rather flattened and 

 not approximated below or above, profiles inclined similarly to form 

 attenuated contour. Snout long, ending in rather obtuse conic tip 

 width basally about H its length, depressed above posteriorly, sides 

 rather flattened and approximating slightly above. Eye moderate, 

 round, close to upper profile, slightly before center in head length. 

 Adipose eyelid thick, well expanded over entire orbital region, aperture 

 narrow, slit of which lower anterior edge forms flap over lower pos- 

 terior edge, which extends well forward. Mouth large, well infe- 

 rior, long snout protruding well forward beyond mandible tip, and 

 gape not quite opposite eye front. Lips thick, fleshy, firm. Max- 

 illary nearly back till opposite eye center, greater part 'concealed 

 below broad preorbital, and distal expansion about f of eye. Supple- 

 mental maxillary well expanded, its distal expansion little more than 

 distal maxillary width. Narrow bands of firm conic teeth in each 

 jaw, in upper only extending back along each premaxillary about 

 half its length, along mandibular edge extending much further back. 

 Vomer with crescentic patch of teeth similar and parallel to those in 

 upper jaw. Pterygoids, sphenoid and basibranchials with broad 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 653 



bands of obtuse molar-like teeth. Tongue thick, broadly triangular, 

 edges narrowly free. Mandible depressed, rami not elevated inside 

 mouth. Nostrils together, nearer eye than snout tip, anterior small 

 pore with fleshy rim exposing posterior in narrow crescent. Inter- 

 orbital space slightly concave. Supraorbital ridge rather prominent, 

 especially anteriorly. Hind edge of preopercle inclined posteriorly, 

 and obsolete ridge inclined anteriorly. Opercle rather small. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite eye center. Rakers 4 + 9 

 short depressed finely asperous tubercles. Filaments about f of eye. 

 Pseudobranchise about § of eye. Isthmus rather broad, thick, lower 

 surface level. Branchiostegals about 14, each indicated on branchios- 

 tegal membrane by slight incision on its lower surface. 



Scales cycloid, inner edges mostly crimped, outer or exposed edges 

 thin or membranous and ragged, marked submarginally with a con- 

 current vertical ridge or striation, the true edge of the scale. Scales 

 disposed in even horizontal series, and all over trunk of about uniform 

 size. All fins densely covered with minute scales. Pectoral depressi- 

 ble below a horizontal scaly ridge, and basally covered with moderate- 

 sized scales. Ventral with free pointed axillary scaly flap, length 

 about § fin, and moderately small scales on its base. Lateral line 

 complete, nearly midway along side of body and straight. Tubes 

 simple, horizontal, only pore at hind end exposed, opposite middle of 

 emargination of hind or vertical striation on scale. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base, 

 first branched ray highest, though but trifle longer than last which 

 is filamentous, otherwise branched rays graduated clown to penul- 

 timate which is shortest. Anal small inserted behind depressed dorsal, 

 or nearly at last f- in space between ventral origin and caudal base. 

 Pectoral small, pointed, not quite half way to ventral. Ventral 

 inserted nearly opposite seventh dorsal ray base or about midway 

 between pectoral origin and last anal ray base. Caudal forked, small, 

 lobes similar (ends damaged), apparently about equally pointed and 

 also sharp. Vent about opposite depressed ventral tip. 



Color in alcohol faded brilliant silvery-brassy or brownish, scales 

 all quite bright. Fins and head also all same shade, and all more or 

 less uniform, dorsal and caudal scarcely darker. Dull dusky streak 

 over snout just behind its tip to beginning of preorbital groove. Head 

 paler below than above. Iris dull brownish. 



Length 15 inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 1597, A. N. S. P. Santo Domingo, West Indies. Prof. 

 W. M. Gabb. 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Only known from the above-described example taken many years 

 ago in Santo Domingo with specimens of Albula vulpes (Lirmseus), of 

 the same size and sex, differing chiefly as pointed out above. Albula 

 vulpes further differs in having the preopercular membrane extended 

 back nearly to the gill-opening above, besides having the preopercle 

 entirely inclined anteriorly along its hind edge and ridge. Albula 

 also shows other minor differences, such as the aperature of the 

 adipose eyelid, a simple opening and not folded over below, snout 

 much shorter, and the eye more median in the head length. The 

 accompanying figure is shown with the caudal fin restored, the tips 

 of which are now damaged. 



(Nrjfia, thread; xrepov, fin; with reference to the last dorsal and 

 anal rays.) 






1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



December 6. 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp made a communication on Ambergris and 

 Spermaceti. (No abstract.) 



December 20. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The death of C. 0. Whitman, a Correspondent, December 6, 1910, 

 was announced. 



The reception of papers offered for publication under the following 

 titles was reported : 



" Bermuda Shells," by E. G. Vanatta (December 7, 1910). 



"A Note on the Genus Lolliguncula." by S. Stillman Berry (December 

 12, 1910). 



The following were ordered to be published. 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



NOTES ON SOME LITTLE-KNOWN FISHES FROM THE NEW YORK DEVONIAN. 



BY BURNETT SMITH. 



Machceracanthus and other Fish Remains from the Oriskany Sand- 

 stone. — So far as the writer has been able to learn the literature of 

 Paleontology contains no reference to the occurrence of fish remains 

 in the Oriskany sandstone of New York. Beyond the boundaries of 

 the State fossils of this nature have been reported from beds which 

 are believed to be contemporaneous with the type Oriskany. Eastman 1 

 mentions the scales of Thelodus from "Oriskany sandstone" at Nictaux 

 Falls, N. S., while Newberry, 2 in his monograph makes the following 

 statement : " Neither in New York nor farther south has the Oriskany 

 sandstone yet furnished any remains of fishes, but it is to be expected 

 that when sought for patiently and discriminatingly they will be 

 discovered. In Canada, north of Lake Erie, where the characteristic 

 fossils of the New York Oriskany are associated with those of the 

 Corniferous limestone, spines of Machceracanthus and fragments of 

 plates with a stellate tuberculation, probably of MacropetaJiehthys, 

 have been found." 



In the vicinity of Syracuse, N. Y., the presence of bone fragments 

 and of spines in the phosphatic nodules of the Oriskany has been 

 known to local collectors for some time. Several years ago Mr. Charles 

 E. Wheelock, of Syracuse, obtained a spine from one of these concre- 

 tions at Britton's quarry, Onondaga County (just south of the Syracuse 

 city line). This specimen has unfortunately been lost, but the writer 

 feels that he can accept without reserve the determination of so 

 careful an observer as Mr. Wheelock. 



In 1908, Mr. Charles Hares, then a graduate student at Syracuse 

 University, while studying the stratigraphic relations of the Oriskany 

 sandstone, brought to my notice a number of fragmentary fossils 

 from the phosphatic nodules at the quarries east of Manlius, Onondaga 

 County. 



With the exception of a few obscure pieces of bone, some collected 



1 New York State Museum Memoir 10, p. 13. 



2 Monographs U. S. G. S., vol. XVI, p. 25. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 657 



from the rock in place and one from a drift boulder, no other specimens 

 have until recently come to the attention of the writer. It is to 

 Mr. Wheelock that we are again indebted for the discovery of addi- 

 tional and better preserved material. This latter, together with two 

 of the Manlius specimens, allow of the determination of one genus, 

 Machcer acanthus, with certainty, and it is believed that characters 

 differing from those of previously described species indicate that the 

 form in question is new. It is not, however, thought advisable to 

 introduce a new specific name, for it is possible that the features 

 observed may be merely the result of individual variation in some long- 

 known species of the genus. 



Fig. 1. — A and B, proximal cross sections, and C, distal cross section of Machmra- 

 canthus spines from the Oriskany sandstone of Onondaga County, New York. 

 B and C are sections of the same spine. All are enlarged twice. 



The Oriskany Ma cheer acanthus may be briefly described as follows : 

 Spines having a measured width of 16.5 mm. Length probably 

 exceeding 100 mm. This would lie a spine of about the size of 

 M. peracutus Newb. and M. sulcatus Newb., but much smaller than 

 M . major Newb. The angle of convergence of the sides of the spine 

 is less than in any of the above-mentioned species, one measurement 

 showing that the width decreases from 10 mm. to 3 mm. through a 

 length of 54 mm. The curvature is apparently about the same as 

 that met with in M. peracutus. Central cavity large. The cross 

 section of the spine is highly characteristic and changes greatly in its 

 outline distally. In the more proximal portions the spine is marked 

 by very sharp "wings" and an angulated ridge is present on the 

 outer (?) side while the inner (?) carries a much rounded and swollen 

 ridge. Distally the "wings" are shorter, while the two ridges, though 

 still maintaining their general character, become less pronounced. 

 External surface punctate with distally convergent stria?. 



These Oriskany specimens are distinguished from those previously 

 described by the cross section. In this feature they most resemble 

 M . longoevus Eastman 3 from the New York Hamilton, while in general 



3 New York State Museum Memoir 10, p. 85, pi. 2, fig. S. 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



proportions they approach M. peracutus. Location and Horizon — 

 Oriskany sandstone; Manlius and Britton's Quarry, Onondaga County, 

 New York. 



The writer believes that it is not out of place to append here the 

 following notes concerning the range and distribution of the described 

 species of Machceracanthus. 



Maohaeraoanthus peracutus Newb. 



Middle Devonian. Columbus and Delaware limestones of Ohio, 

 Onondaga' (Corniferous) limestone of New York. 



Maohaeraoanthus suloatus Newb. 



Middle Devonian. Ohio. Onondaga limestone of Xew York. 

 Gaspe sandstone of Canada. 4 



Maohaeraoanthus major Newb. 



Middle Devonian, Columbus and Delaware limestones of Ohio. 



Maohaeraoanthus longaevus Eastman. 



Middle Devonian. Hamilton of Xew York. 



Maohaeraoanthus bohemicus (Barramle). 



Devonian of Europe. 



The specimens from the vicinity of Syracuse definitely extend the 

 range of the genus to the Oriskany sandstone and, as stated before, 

 probably represent a new species. We know, however, practically 

 nothing of the morphology of Machceracanthus, and if, as has been 

 suggested, it is a gigantic Acanthodian, the probability is strong that 

 even in one individual spines might have occurred whose curvatures 

 and cross sections differed greatly. 



In addition to the fossils assignable to Machceracanthus, the Manlius 

 locality has yielded other though much less satisfactory fish remains. 

 These are so poorly preserved that little can be said of them beyond 

 the fact that they present the appearance of badly weathered Arthro- 

 diran plates. 



Note on the Plates of Dinichthys hahnodeus (Clarke)? — The structure 

 of the abdominal armor in Coccosteus and especially in C. decipiens 

 Ag. has been well understood for many years. The other genera of 

 Arthrodires, however, seldom furnish us with anything but scattered 

 plates, and this is more particularly true of the ventral shield. In 



4 New York State Museum Memoir 10, p. 191. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



Dinichthys Eastman, 5 Dean 6 and Yon Koenen 7 have described more 

 or less complete specimens of the ventral covering with its elements 

 in nearly the positions occupied during the life of the animal. In 

 these cases the several species of Dinichthys, to which the ventral 

 shields have been referred, are typical examples of the genus. The 

 ventral armor of the primitive species usually included in Dinichthys 

 (such as D. halmodeus) has until recently remained unknown. 



In the summer of 1908 the writer was so fortunate as to obtain a 

 specimen of the ventral armor of a small arthrodire from the Marcellus 

 shale (Middle Devonian) of central New York. Although no definite 

 specific determination has been attempted, it is highly probable that 

 the specimen in question represents the plastron of Dinichthys hal- 

 modeus (Clarke). Though originally described as Coccosteus, 8 most 

 recent authors have included this species in Dinichthys, all agreeing, 

 however, that it holds a position only slightly removed from the 

 former ancestral genus. The chief reasons for assigning this armor 

 to D. halmodeus are (1) similarity of superficial tuberculation, (2) 

 geographical and geological position, and (3) the fact that this ventral 

 shield possesses just such primitive characters as would naturally 

 correspond with those exhibited by the dorsal plates and head shields 

 of the type material of the species. 



A detailed description of this ventral shield has been given else- 

 where, 9 and for our present purposes it is sufficient to say that the 

 plates are in their original position, the antero-ventromedian and 

 postero-ventromedian, both postero-ventrolaterals, and one antero- 

 ventrolateral are practically entire, while the other antero-ventro- 

 lateral is mostly retained. The outline of this latter plate can, however, 

 be restored from that of its well-preserved fellow on the other side. 

 In addition to these ventral plates the specimen shows both the 

 antero-dorsolaterals and the right postero-dorsolateral. Two other 

 bones associated with those already named were originally regarded 

 as a probable suborbital and as a possible antero-superognathal. A 



5 C. R. Eastman, "On the Relation of Certain Plates in the Dinichthyids," 

 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Harvard, vol. XXXI, pp. 26, 27, pi. I, fig. 2, and pi. IV. 



6 Bashford Dean, "On the Vertebral Column, Fins, and Ventral Armoring 

 of Dinichthys," Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. XV, pp. 157-163, pis. VII and VIII ; 

 "Note on the Ventral Armoring of Dinichthys," Trayis. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. 

 XVI, pp. 57-60, pi. III. 



7 A. von Koenen, "Ueber einige Fischreste des norddeutschen und bomischen 

 Devons," Abhandl. k. Gesell. Wiss., Gottingen, vol. XL. 



8 John M. Clarke, "New and Rare Species of Fossils from the Horizons of the 

 Livonia Salt Shaft," Rep. State Geologist, New York. 1893, p. 161. 



9 Burnett Smith, "On Some Dinichthyid Armor Plates from the Marcellus 

 Shale." Am, Nat., vol. XLIII, Oct., 1000.' 




660 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



more careful examination of these bones has led the author to recon- 

 sider these provisional determinations and to come to the conclusion 

 that the elements in question are in no way connected with the head- 

 shield, but are part of the "clavicular" and lateral armoring. 



Fig. 2. — A, Dinichthys halmodeus (Clarke)? Marcellus shale near Syracuse, 

 N. Y. Black lines an- traced from a photograph. Dotted lines represent 

 restored outlines. In the case of the interlateral the dotted lines follow 

 impressions in the matrix. Length of ventral shield about 195 mm. 



B, Coccosteus decipiens Ag. Bestoration of the ventral armor (modified 

 from Traquair). 



C, Coccosteus decipiens Ag. Bestoration of abdominal armor side-view (mod- 

 ified from Traquair). 



A.V.M., antero-ventromedian ; P.V.M., postero-ventromedian; A.Y.L., antero- 

 ventrolateral; P.V.L., postero-ventrolateral; B.D.L., postero-dorsolateral; 

 A.D.L., antero-dorsolateral; I.L., interlateral; A.L., anterolateral; P.L., 

 posterolateral; M.D., dorsomedian. 



Fig. 2 A represents a tracing taken from the photograph of the 

 original specimen. The plates of the ventral shield are all capable 

 of certain identification, as are also the two antero-dorsolaterals and 

 the postero-dorsolateral. Immediately forward of the ventral shield 

 is a group of bones which at first appear to be hopelessly confused. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 661 



If, however, we examine Traquair's 10 restoration of Coccostcus decipiens 

 Ag\, we find that in this region occur two well-defined transverse 

 elements which are terminated at their outer extremities by processes 

 which are directed backward and upward. In the specimen here 

 considered it can be proved b} r a careful examination of impressions 

 on the matrix that the bone originally believed to be an antero- 

 superognathal is not a short compact element, but is in reality a frag- 

 ment once connected with a long transverse bone which borders the 

 anterior margin of the left antero-ventrolateral. The part believed 

 to be a gnathal then becomes the upwardly and backwardly directed 

 fork of the interlateral shown in Traquair's restoration of Coccosteus 

 decipiens. The evidence for this interpretation is twofold — (1) the 

 shape of the bone corresponds to the Coccostean interlateral and (2) 

 the bone is in exactly the position where we might expect to find such 

 an element. 



In Coccosteus decipiens this interlateral plate has a rodlike ventral 

 portion and a lateral .portion with its two processes, one directed 

 dorsally, the other posteriorly. Between these two processes fits 

 the lowest plate of the lateral armoring, namely, the anterolateral. 

 This anterolateral articulates behind with the small posterolateral 

 and above it overlaps the antero-dorsolateral. It therefore serves 

 to link the ventral to the dorsal shield. 



If, now, we turn to the higher species of Dinichthys, such as D. inter- 

 medins Newb., we find that apparently the Coccostean interlateral, 

 the Coccostean anterolateral and perhaps even the Coccostean postero- 

 lateral have fused together into one large bone, the so-called "clavicu- 

 lar." We say apparently, for though some specimens exhibit the 

 condition shown in Newberry's classic illustration, 11 others occur with 

 the two components (the lower rodlike portion and the upper platelike 

 portion) separate. Eastman 12 has homologized the broad portion of 

 the "clavicular" with the Coccostean anterolateral and its lower 

 portion with the Coccostean interlateral. 



Though not wushing to express too hasty an opinion, the author 

 believes that the restoration of Dinichthys would present fewer diffi- 

 culties if we could regard the lower (interlateral) portion of the " clavic- 

 ular" as an element distinct from the upper (anterolateral) portion. 



10 R. H. Traquair, "On the Structure of Coccosteus decipiens, Agassiz," 

 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., vol. V, 1S90, p. 125. 



11 U. S. G. S., Monographs XVI, pi. XLVIII. See also Hussakof, in Mem. 

 Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. IX, part III, p. 133. 



12 New York State Museum Memoir 10, p. 119. 




662 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Considering, now, the specimen dealt with in this paper, we find that 

 the interlateral shows no positive evidence of fusion with any other 

 bone and seems to agree with the condition met with in Coccosteus 

 decipiens. Further, it may be stated that its posterior margin looks 

 as if it might have carried the thin blade found in D. intermedins, 

 but the condition of preservation hardly warrants a final decision on 

 this point. 



If, now, we examine the plate which was at first believed to be a 

 suborbital, we find that it is apparently onby a part of a larger bone, 

 the fragments of which lie (in the figure) to the left of the big mass. 

 When a reconstruction of this bone is attempted, its outline is, in a 

 general way, quite similar to that made by the combined antero- and 

 posterolaterals of Coccosteus or the broadly expanded upper portion 

 of the "clavicular" in Dinichthys. The author offers the suggestion, 

 therefore, that this bone probably represents a lateral plate of some 

 kind. In support of this suggestion it may be said that the bone in 

 question occupies just such a position as that in which we might 

 expect to find a lateral plate when the entire abdominal armor is so 

 crushed that the dorsal and ventral plates are brought into the same 

 plane. According to this hypothesis, the plate was not only brought 

 into the horizontal plane, but also rotated forward through an angle 

 of about ninety degrees. The same pressure pushed the left antero- 

 dorsolateral backward while it turned over with its outer side exposed. 

 The right antero-dorsolateral in coming to rest in the same plane with 

 the others was pushed far forward of its natural position. 



Though realizing that any conclusions in regard to the strictly 

 lateral armoring which ma}- be based upon this specimen are only 

 tentative, the author believes that he may safely express the opinion 

 that the interlateral in this Marcellus Dinichthyid occupies practically 

 its normal position, that in this respect it agrees with Coccosteus, and 

 that it offers a clue which may be of importance in properly orienting 

 the "clavicular" (be it one element or two) in the higher Dinichthyids. 

 Acanthodian Remains from the Marcellus Shale. — These remains 

 of Acanthodians are quite fragmentary, but the extreme rarity of the 

 members of this order in the Paleozoic strata of North America render 

 advisable a short description of these two Middle Devonian specimens. 

 ( )ne specimen collected by the writer came from the Marcellus shale 

 of the Kimber Springs Ravine, southwest of Onondaga Valley, N. Y. 

 It comprises but a single spine less than 15 mm. in length. The 

 proximal portion is imperfect, but clistally it tapers off in a graceful 

 curve to the nearly complete point. Three longitudinal grooves and 

 ridges are plainly visible. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



The other specimen was collected from the Marcellus shale of 

 Richfield, N. Y., by the late Prof. C. E. Beecher. It forms part of 

 the Newberry Collection at the American Museum of Natural History. 

 Newberry was fully aware of the nature of the fossil, for he refers to 

 Acanthodian remains very briefly on page 61 of his monograph as 

 having been collected by Beecher from this horizon. Subsequent 

 authors have not mentioned it. This Richfield specimen displays a 

 spine, numerous scales and an undetermined plate. The fossil lies 

 in a bedding plane of the thinly laminated shale in such a way that 

 when the block was broken a portion of the fish adhered to the rock 

 on either side. An examination of the spine indicates that the Rich- 

 field and Kimber Springs specimens are specifically identical. The 

 spine, though less perfectly preserved, exhibits the same proportions, 

 curve and longitudinal ridges. When complete it must have been 

 over 33 mm. in length. The scales are relatively large, four-sided and 

 apparently unsculptured. The specimen is of good size for an Acan- 

 thodian, and though any estimate of its length must be very rough, 

 we are undoubtedly justified in assuming that the complete fish was 

 at least 175 mm. long. 



Though Acanthodian remains have been reported from the Lower 

 and Upper Devonian of the Atlantic Border province and from the 

 Upper Devonian of the New York province, these specimens represent 

 the earliest examples of undoubted Acanthodians which have been 

 found in the latter region. 



In the Atlantic Border province the following forms have been 

 reported: 13 Acanthodes semistriatus Woodward, Cheiracanthus cos- 

 tellatus Traquair, Climatius latispinosus (Whiteaves) from the Lower 

 Devonian of Campbellton, N. B., and Diplacanthus striatus Ag., 

 D. horridus Woodward, Acanthodes a/finis Whiteaves, A. concinnus 

 Whiteaves from the Upper Devonian of Scaumenac Bay, Quebec. 



In the New York province we have: Acanthodes (?) prist is Clarke, 

 Rhinestreet shale, Upper Devonian, near Sparta, N. Y. An unnamed 

 Acanthodian, Marcellus shale, Middle Devonian, Richfield, N. Y., 

 and Kimber Springs, near Onondaga Valley, N. Y. 



13 C. R. Eastman, New York State Mus. Mem. 10, pp. 13, 16, 17. Also O. P. 

 Hay, U. S. G. S., Bull. 179, pp. 273, 274. 



43 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



BERMUDA SHELLS. 

 BY E. G. VANATTA. 



The following lists are based upon land shells collected by Mr. 

 Stewardson Brown during 1905, 1908, 1909; and land and fresh-water 

 shells collected by E. E. Vanatta and the author during 1910. All 

 the species listed are recent specimens now in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



It is interesting to have found living examples of some of Mr. A. 

 Gulick's fossil species, showing that they are not very old, especially 

 since one proved to belong to the Old World genus Kaliella. 



Separate lists of the various localities are given, as the distribution 

 of some of the species seems to be local and not general. It is to be 

 hoped that future collectors will not mix the specimens from the 

 different islands. 



Messrs. Boyer and Keeley examined the diatoms which we gathered 

 at Pembroke Marsh and pronounced them all fresh-water forms. 



Polygyra plana (Dunker). 



Helix microdonta Desh. in Fer. Hist., I, 1839, p. 6, pi. 72, fig. 13. Not 



Helix microdonta Desh., Enc. Meth., II, 1832, p. 266 (= Stylodonta uniden- 



tata Dillw., 1817). 

 Helix plana Dkr., Philippi, Abb. Bes. Conch., I, Oct., 1843, p. 51, Helix, 



pi. 3, fig. 11. 

 Helix delitescens (Shutt.) Bland, Ann. Lyceum N. H. N. Y., VII, April, 1860, 



p. 134, 140, 360. 

 Helix cheilodon (Say MSS.) Bland, Ann. Lyceum N. H. N. Y., April, 1S60, 



p. 141. 

 Helix ringens Lane, Five Essays: The History of the Spiral Snail, Bermuda, 



p. 2, pi. 1, fig. 3. (Mr. F. T. Frith, the librarian at the Bermuda Public 



Library, informed me that this book was published about 1892.) 

 Polygyra microdonta Desh., Pilsbry, Trans. Conn. Acad., X, 1900, p. 493, 



pi. 62, fig. 3. 



Bermuda specimens were submitted by Dr. Pilsbry to Prof. Dr. 

 Joh. Thiele, of Berlin, for comparison with the type of Helix plana 

 Dunker contained in the Konigl. Zoologisches Museum, who kindly 

 replied as follows: "Ein Yergleich ihrer Polygyra plana von Ber- 

 mudas mit dem typischen Exemplar der Dunkerschen Sammlung 

 ergiebt die vollstandige Uebereinstimmung ; die Oberflache zeigt 

 dieselbe feine Streifung." 

 Eulota similaris (F<§r.). 



In Five Essays: The History of the Spiral Snail, Rev. W. G. Lane 




1910.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



665 



states that Helix hortensis is found in a few gardens, but his figures 

 and remarks about the color apply to Eulota similaris Fer. which is. 

 quite abundant. 



St. Georges (collected by Major A, 



Helix pisana Mull. 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 



POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl'. 



Thysanophora selenina Gld. 



BlFIDARIA PELLUCIDA HORDEA- 



CELLA Pils. 

 BlFIDARIA SERYILIS Gld. 



Bifidaria rupicola Say. 

 Vallonia PULCHELLA i\] 



J. Peile, R. A., and author) : 

 Obeliscus swiftianus Pfr. 



RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 



Cecilioides acicula Mull. 



POSCILOZONITES BERMUDENSIS Pfl\- 



Pcecilozonites CIRCUMFIRMATUS- 



Redf. 

 Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



Sandy I. (collected by L. Mowbry) : 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. Helicina convexa Pfr. 



Jones I. (L. Mowbry, collector) : 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 



Bailey's Bay: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Polygyra appressa sculptior 



Chad. 



Harrington Sound, near Shark's 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Polygyra a. scupltior Chad. 

 Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



BlFIDARIA P. HORDEACELLA Pils. 



Obeliscus swiftianus Pfr. 



SUBULINA OCTONA Brug. 

 RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 

 C^CILIOIDES ACICULA Mull. 

 POSCILOZONITES BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils, 

 Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 

 Helicina convexa Pfr. 



Hole: 



PCECILOZONITES GOODEI Pils. 



Pcecilozonites circumfirmatus 



Redf. 

 Zonitoides bermudensis P. & V. 

 Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 

 Kaliella turbinatus Gul. 

 Agriolimax l.^vis Mull. 

 Milax gagates Drap. 

 Milax sowerbyi Fer. var. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. j 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 




666 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Church Cave, near Tucker's Town: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 



POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl\ 



Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Thysanophora hypolepta Shutt. 



PUPOIDES MARGINATUS Say. 



Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



BlFIDARIA P. HORDEACELLA Pils. 



Vertigo numellata Gul. 

 Vertigo marki Gul. 

 Vertigo eyriesii Druet. 

 Strobilops hubbardi Brown. 

 Subulina octona Brug. 



Near Ducking Stool: 



Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 

 Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 



Hamilton: 



Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 

 Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 

 Vallonia pulchella Mull. 

 Opeas gracile Hutt. 



Sand]/ Hill, near Hamilton: 



Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Vitrea lucida Drap. 



White Id.: 



Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer. 

 Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



C.ecilioides acicula Mull. 

 Pcecilozonites circumfirmatus 



Redf. 

 Pcecilozonites reinianus Pfr. 

 Pcecilozonites goodei Pils. 



ZONITOIDES BERMUDENSIS P. & V. 



Zonitoides minusctjla Binn. 

 Kaliella turbinata Gul. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



CARYCHIUM BERMUDENSIS Gill. 



RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 



Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 

 Milan gagates Drap. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 



Vitrea lucida Drap. 

 Agriolimax l.eyis Mull. 

 Milan gagates Drap. 

 Milan sowerbyi Fer. rar. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 

 Opeas micra Orb. 

 Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 

 Helicina convexa Pfr. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



667 



Fairyland: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 



POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl\ 



Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Thysanophora hypolepta Shutt. 

 Pupoides marginatus Say. 

 Bifid aria servilis Gld. 



BlFIDARIA P. HORDEACELLA Pils. 



Bifidaria rupicola Say. 

 Vallonia pulchella Mi'ill. 

 Opeas gracile Hutt. 



SUBULINA OCTONA Bl'Ug. 

 RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 

 &ECILIOIDES ACICULA Mi'ill. 

 PCECILOZONITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS 



Redf. 



Paget Parish, near Hamilton (E. 



Helicella ventricosa Drap. 

 Eulota similaris Fer., one speci- 

 men was scalariform. 



POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl\ 



Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Thysanophora hypolepta Shutt. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 

 Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 

 Opeas micra Orb. 



SUBULINA OCTONA Bl'Ug. 

 RUMINA DECOLLATA L. 

 PCECILOZONITES BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Hungry Bay: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 



EULOTA SIMILARIS Fer. 

 POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl\ 



Thysanophora hypolepta Shutt. 

 Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 



Port Royal: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 



POLYGYRA PLANA Dkl\ 



Yitrea lucida Drap. 



ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Binil. 

 SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 

 Melampus coffea L. 

 Melampus flavus L. 

 Detracia bulloides Mont. 

 Alexia m. bermudensis Pfr. 

 Leuconia occidentalis Pfr. 



CARYCHIUM BERMUDENSIS Gul. 



Blauneria heteroclita Mont. 

 Pedipes tridens Pfr. 

 Plecotrema cubensis Pfr. 



E. Vanatta) : 



PffiCILOZONITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS 



Redf. 

 Vitrea lucida Drap., two speci- 

 mens were sinistral. 



ZONITOIDES BERMUDENSIS P. & V. 

 ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Binn. 



Kaliella turbinata Gul. 

 Milax g agates Drap. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfl*. 



Helicina convexa Pfr., a very 

 large form. 



PCECILOZONITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS 



Redf. 



ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Bilin. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



P(ECILOZONITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS 



Redf. 




668 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



PUPOIDES MARGINATUS Say. 



Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



BlFIDARIA P. HORDEACELLA Pils. 



Somerset: 

 Helicella ventricosa Drap. 



EULOTA SIMILARIS Fer. 



Polygyra plana Dkr. 

 Thysanophora selenina Gld. 

 Bifidaria servilis Gld. 

 Bifidaria p. hordeacella Pils. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



PtUMINA DECOLLATA L. 



Zonitoides minuscula Binn. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



Helicina convexa Pfr. 



CARYCHIUM BERMUDENSIS Gill. 



PCECILOZONITES BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 

 PCECILOZONITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS 



Redf. 

 Zonitoides minuscula" Binn. 

 Agriolimax l.evis Mull. 

 Milan sowerbyi Fer. var. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS Pfr. 



fcO 



Descriptions of New Species. 



Physa caliban n. sp. Fig l. 



Shell imperforate; elongate, oval; thin; light chestnut-brown; 



apex dark red, acute, smooth under a lens; suture impressed, marked 



by a white line with a dark red line at the lower 

 edge; spire conical, composed of 5 slightly 

 convex whorls; sculptured with irregular growth 

 lines which form slight crenulation at the 

 suture, but no microscopic spiral lines on the 

 shells examined. Aperture irregularly oval, 

 acute above and evenly rounded at base, outer 

 lip thin and arcuate, columella dark red, rather 

 thick, with a thin callus spreading out over the 

 parietal wall. In alcoholic specimen the mantle 

 has 3 digitations at posterior angle and 5 at the 



columella. The central tooth of the radula has 5 cusps and the 



lateral have 8 subequal cusps, the sickle-shaped marginal fig. 1 has 8 



nearly equal cusps. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 5.25 mm. 



Locality. — Pembroke Marsh, at Hamilton, Bermuda. Very plentiful. 



This species differs from P. pomilia Conr. by its darker color, dark 



red columella and rougher surface; and from P. eubensis Pfr. by the 



lack of the white fold on the columella, higher spire and darker color. 



Type No. 100,334, The Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Planorbis uliginosus n. sp. Fig. 2. 



Shell perspective umbilicate ; lenticular ; moderately thick ; grayish- 



Fig. 1. — P. caliban n.sp. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



brown; with a cream-colored band near the white lip. Spire nearly 

 flat, concave in middle, composed of 2f slightly convex whorls, the 

 last forming a rather raised ring about the sunken apex. The body 

 whorl is rounded with perceptible angulation above the periphery. 

 The base is convex, obtusely angular at the edge of the deep umbilicus 



Fig. 2. — Planorbis uliginosus n. sp. 



and showing a few very indistinct spiral scratches near the lip. Aper- 

 ture oblique, orbicular, with a convex very heavy white callus, covering 

 the inside of the lip and parietal wall. The columella is heavy, rather 

 straight, but not forming much of an angle with the base. The surface 

 is covered with fine irregular growth lines above, but smoother on the 

 base. No spirals seen under a high magnification, except the above- 

 mentioned scratches. Young specimens are more corneous, and 

 resemble P. dilatatus Gld. Sometimes young ones have a very dark 

 brown lip edge. 



Alt. 1.3, diam. 3 mm. 



Locality. — The types are from Pembroke Marsh, near Hamilton, 

 Bermuda; quite plentiful. 



This shell differs from P. dilatatus Gld. by its thick lip, stronger 

 keel, more depressed body whorl, higher spire. It has a larger umbilicus 

 than P. a. avus Pils. not so flat as P. rubellus St., and lacks the very 

 strong keel of P. alabamensis Pils. Types in the collection of the 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 100,336. 



Planorbis imus n. sp. Fig. 3. 



Shell perspective umbilicate; carinate; lenticular; thin; grayish- 

 yellow; apex depressed; spire convex, truncate, sides descending to 

 the acute periphery. Suture impressed, whorl 2\, moderately convex, 

 surface covered with close incremental striae. Aperture oblique, 

 sagittate, broader than high, peristome thin, superior edge arcuate, 

 nearly vertical above keel, then gradually slopes to angle of outer lip, 

 basal margin evenly arcuate, columella narrow, parietal wall indented 

 by the peripheral keel, covered with a thin callus. 




670 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Alt. 3.03, diam. .92 mm. 



Locality. — Bermuda; collected by W. M. Rankin. Type in the 

 collection of the Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 82,410. 



This shell differs from P. exacutus Say by the smaller size, the 

 position of the keel at the periphery instead of near the base, the 



Fig. 3. — Planorbis imus n. sp. 



more vertical aperture and shallower umbilicus. It is more depressed 

 than P. alabamensis Pils. and P. dilatatus Gld. The aperture is not so 

 oblique in P. rubcUus St., has a more rapid increase of whorl, narrower 

 umbilicus and lighter color. 



Ancylus (Ferrissia) bermudensis n. sp. Fig. 4. 



Shell oval, greatest width in front, high, thin, horn color, apex with 

 microscopic radial striae, situated near the posterior right margin, 

 anterior slope convex, posterior and right side concave, left side 



Fig. 4. — Ancylus bermudensis n. sp. 



nearly straight. Surface marked with concentric lines of growth and 

 a few obscure radial lines. 



Alt, .90, diam. 1.73, length 3.10. 



Locality. — Ditch in Pembroke Marsh, near Hamilton, Bermuda. 



This rare limpet is smaller and smoother than A. radiatus Guild, and 

 A. textilis Guppy. A. irroratus Guild, has stronger concentric sculpture. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



671 



Fig. 5. — P. bermudensis Pils. 



A. havanensis Pfr. is larger and more elliptical. Type in the collection 

 of the Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 100,338. 



Paludestrina bermudensis n. sp. Pilsbry. Fig 5. 



"The shell is perforate, turrite, the spire regularly tapering to the 

 small but obtuse apex; thin but mod- 

 erately strong, white under a thin yellow- 

 ish cuticle, in life generally black from 

 ferrous incrustation. Whorls six. strongly 

 convex, the first one planorboid above. 

 Aperture ovate, the peristome thin, con- 

 tinuous, appressed to the preceding- 

 whorl for a short distance, above the 

 perforation. 



" Length 4.9, diam. 2.1 mm.; length of 

 aperture 1.9 mm. 



" Ditch in Pembroke Marsh, near Hamil- 

 ton, Bermuda. Type No. 100,340, Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., collected by E. G. and E. E. Vanatta, March 2, 1910. 

 Also a pond near the entrance to Harrington Sound (Owen Bryant) 

 and Paynter's Vale (C. Abbott Davis). 



"The measurements of other specimens are as follows: 



"Alt. 6.8, diam. 3 mm., whorls 6f (largest specimen). 

 " 4.5 " 2.3 " " 5^ (broad phase). 



" 4.9, " 2.1 " " 6 (slender phase). 



"It was found in very copious quantity, and seems to be generally 

 distributed where suitable water occurs. It differs from Paludestrina 

 nickliniana (Lea) and its large form attenuata (Hald.) by the con- 

 spicuously more minute apical whorls. The denticulation of the 

 central and lateral teeth also is finer. The whorls of P. bermudensis 

 are more convex than in P. tenuipes (Couper)." (Pilsbry). 



Pisidium volutabundum n. sp. Fig. 6. 



Shell equivalve, suborbicular, umbones moderately prominent, 

 thin, horn color, superior margin nearly straight, anterior margin 

 subtruncate, inferior margin arcuate, posterior margin convex. Sur- 

 face finely striate with irregular lines of growth. Hinge arcuate, 

 narrow, ligament scar concave with a slight longitudinal ridge in the 

 center. The right valve with one large cardinal and two laterals at 

 each end, the lower ones the largest. The left valve provided with 

 two cardinals the lower recurved and a little anterior, a very heavy 




672 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



lateral at each end of the hinge line, with a deep groove between it 



and the edge of the shell. 



Fig. 6. — Pisidium volutabundum n. sp. 



Alt. 2.56, diam. 1.73, length 3.13 mm. 



Locality. — Pembroke Marsh, near Hamilton, Bermuda; collected by 

 E. E. Vanatta. 



This clam is more truncate than P. abditum Prime with higher 

 beaks and is more orbicular than P. noveboracense Prime. 



Type in the collection of the Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 100,335. 





X 



a. 



u 

 o 

 < 



i 



0- 



o 



w 



w 

 o 



z 

 u 



u 



W 



-1 

 < 



D 

 H 

 < 

 Z 



> 



o 

 < 



o 



< 



UJ 



I 

 h 




1910.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



The following Reports were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Sixteen meetings have been held during the year with an average 

 attendance of twenty- five. Communications were made by Benjamin 

 Sharp, Henry Leffmann, William M. Wheeler, Henry A. Pilsbiy, 

 John M. Macfarlane, John W. Harshberger, Thomas H. Montgomery, 

 Henry W. Fowler, Arthur Erwin Brown, Edward J. Nolan, Charles S. 

 Boyer, Thomas S. Stewart, Hugo Bilgram, Silas Shumo, Frank J. 

 Keeley, T. Chalkley Palmer, William B. Davis, William H. Van Sickel, 

 Henry Skinner, Chester A. Reeds, Edgar T. Wherry, F. Lynwood 

 Garrison, W r itmer Stone, Samuel N. Rhoads, and Miss N. H. Wardle. 

 But few of these were reported for publication. 



Thirty-three papers were presented for publication, as follows: 

 Henry W. Fowler, 6; Henry A. Pilsbry, 3; James A. G. Rehn and 

 Morgan Hebard, 3; James A. G. Rehn, 2; T. Chalkley Palmer, 2; 

 R. Southern, 1 ; Bryant Walker, 1 ; Harold Sellers Coulton, 1 ; H. A. 

 Pilsbry and J. H. Ferris, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry and A. P. Brown, 1 ; C. S. 

 Sargent, 1; Margaret Harris Clark, 1; Henry W. Fowler and Richard 

 J. Phillips, 1 ; J. Perc} r Moore, 1 ; Edward J. Nolan, 1 ; Thomas Barbour, 

 1 ; Katherine J. Busch, 1 ; Francis W. Pennell, 1 ; Clarence B. Moore, 

 1; Edgar F. Smith, 1; T. D. A. Cockerell, 1, and Burnett Smith, 1. 



Thirty-one of these have been printed in the Proceedings, one has 

 been returned to the author, another (by Mr. Clarence B. Moore) 

 forms the second part of the fourteenth volume of the quarto Journal. 

 The number is beautifully illustrated and the Academy is again 

 indebted to Mr. Moore for the entire cost of publication. 



The following are the statistics of publication for the year: Pro- 

 ceedings, 720 pages and 43 plates; Journal, 110 pages and 20 plates; 

 Entomological News, 484 pages and 14 plates; Transactions of 

 the American Entomological Society (Entomological Section 

 of the Academy), 306 pages and 4 plates; Manual of Conchology, 

 94 pages and 16 plates, making a total of 1,714 pages and 97 plates. 



Seven members and three correspondents have been elected. The 

 deaths of sixteen members and five correspondents have been an- 

 nounced. The Academy sustained a severe loss in the death of Dr. 

 Arthur E. Brown, the senior Vice-President, whose services to the society 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



were recognized in a minute of appreciation and regret placed on the 

 records and published in the Proceedings. 



The resignation of membership of C. H. Smyth, Jr., was accepted. 



A resolution was adopted providing for the participation of the 

 Academy in a meeting to be held by the American Philosophical 

 Society for the reception of portraits of the late Isaac Lea and Henry 

 C. Lea. The President, Dr. Dixon, was requested to act as the Acad- 

 emy's representative on the occasion. 



The Secretary has devoted such time as could be secured from routine 

 work to the accumulation of material for the proposed detailed history 

 of the Academy in course of preparation for the celebration of its 

 Centenary in 1912. 



The index to the publications Mill be completed on the issue of the 

 last number of the Proceedings for 1910. The alphabetical arrange- 

 ment of the index to the genera and species, a rather trying piece of 

 work, will be accomplished as promptly as possible, so that the supple- 

 mentary volume may be issued in connection with the Centenary. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the fiscal year just closed the roll of correspondents was 

 changed by five deaths and three elections. The deceased were 

 Peter MacOwen, R. Bowdler Sharpe, Alexander Agassiz, Eduard 

 Van Beneden and William H. Brewer. Those elected are Prof. Edward 

 B. Poulton, Prof. Thomas Hunt Morgan, and Dr. L. O. Howard. 



The year was noteworthy for the many learned congresses and 

 events of scientific interest in which the Academy was invited to 

 participate. Among the most important of these were the following: 

 The Third International Congress of Botany; the International 

 Institute of Agriculture; the Eighth International Zoological Con- 

 gress; the Semicentennial Anniversary of the Entomological Society 

 of Russia; the International Hygiene Exhibition at Dresden in 1911; 

 the Eleventh International Geological Congress; the International 

 Agro-geological Conference; the Seventeenth International Congress 

 of Americanists; the First International Congress of Entomology; 

 the Solvay Institute of Sociology; the Tenth International Congress 

 of Geography and the American Association of Museums. 



Most of these invitations were acknowledged by suitable letters 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 675 



expressive of the Academy's interest and appreciation. Delegates, 

 most of whom were in attendance at the meetings, were appointed 

 as follows: To the Third International Congress of Botany, Prof. 

 J. C. Arthur; to the Eleventh International Geological Congress, 

 Dr. Richard A. F. Penrose and Dr. Edgar T. Wherry; to the Eighth In- 

 ternational Zoological Congress, Prof. E. G. Conklin and Prof. Lndwig 

 v. Graff, and to the First International Congress of Entomology, Dr. 

 Henry Skinner. 



A rather larger number than usual of letters requesting information 

 or assistance were either answered by the Corresponding Secretary 

 or referred to other officers of the Academy. 



A tabulated statement of the correspondence for the year follows: 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 223 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 56 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 11 



Invitations to learned gatherings 14 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 6 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc 19 



Biographies and photographs of correspondents 3 



Miscellaneous letters 92 



Total received 424 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1,0S4 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 59 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 3 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in periodicals 67 



Letters of sympathy and congratulation, etc 4 



Miscellaneous letters 89 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates 6 



Annual Reports and other publications sent to correspondents 424 



Circular letters 91 



Total forwarded 1,827 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




676 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the past year the growth of the Library has consisted of 

 6,449 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 942 volumes, 148 sheets and 

 engravings and 64 maps, making a total of 7,603. 



They have been received from the following sources : 



In exchange from societies and 



editors 3,22S 



I. V. Williamson Fund 2,S06 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 376 



General appropriation 257 



Authors 22G 



Editors 184 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 18-1 



United States Department of the 



Interior 63 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 35 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 34 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 21 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp 16 



Imperial Geological Survey of 



Japan 11 



United States War Department... 10 



Estacion Sismologica de Cartuja.. 10 



Pan-American Union 10 



Dr. Edward J. Nolan 9 



East Indian Government 9 



Marine Biological Laboratory, 



Woods Hole S 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Agriculture 6 



Illinois Geological Survey 5 



Dr. Philip P. Calvert 5 



Publication Committee, Academy 5 

 Massachusetts Agricultural Ex- 

 periment Station 5 



Universite de Geneve 5 



Michigan Geological and Biologi- 

 cal Survey 5 



United States Brewers' Associa- 

 tion 4 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 4 



Commission de la Belgica 4 



Lowell Observatory 3 



Pennsylvania State Library 3 



American Associations of Mu- 

 seums 3 



Observatoire Astronomique 



d'Upsala 3 



E. G. Vanatta 3 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Fisheries 3 



H. A. Pilsbry 3 



Delaware County Institute of 



Science 2 



Argen tine Governmen t 



Congres Internationale de Bo- 

 tanique 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Statis- 

 tics 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Ministere de TAgriculture de la 

 Republique Argentine 



Maryland Weather Bureau 



Maryland Geological Survey 



Mississippi State Geological Sur- 

 vey 



Pennsylvania Department of 



^ Health 



State Geological Survey of North 

 Dakota 



Funk & Wagnalls Co 



Department of Fisheries, New 

 South Wales 



Ministerio de Colonizacion de 

 Bolivia 



William J. Fox 



Florida State Geological Survey... 



Dr. Thomas A. Storey 



State University of Oklahoma 



Long Island Railroad Co 



Stewardson Brown 



F. W. Putnam 



Iowa Geological Survey 



Sir Robert W. Best 



French Government 



Dr. Henry Skinner 



Provinicial Museum, Victoria, 

 B.C.. 



Roval Society 



Dr. S. G. Dixon 



Franciscan Fathers, Saint Mich- 

 aels, Ariz 



Danish Government 



Carnegie Foundation for Ad- 

 vancement of Teaching 



Clarence B. Moore 



Conservation Commission of 

 Maryland 



Bureau of British Marine Zoology 



Commissioners on Fisheries and 

 Game, Massachsuetts 



Geological Survey of New Jersey.. 



Marshall H. Saville and George 

 G. Heve 



2 



2 



2 



2 



■2 

 2 

 2 



2 



1 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



677 



These accessions were distributed to the several departments of 

 the library as follows : 



Journals 5,717 



Agriculture 405 



Geology 304 



Botany 270 



Voyages and Travels 133 



■General Natural History _ 125 



Entomology 123 



Geography 97 



Anatomy and Physiology 76 



Anthropology 62 



Mammalogy 39 



Conchology 38 



Helminthology 



Medicine 



Mineralogy 



Ornithology 



Physical Sciences. 



Ichthyology 



Bibliography 



Chemistry 



Herpetology 



Mathematics 



Encyclopedias 



Unclassified „ 



34 



30 



26 



24 



24 



21 



13 



7 



6 



5 



4 



20 



Five hundred and forty-three volumes have been bound, being 

 but little more than the unbound accessions of the year. The accu- 

 mulation of unbound volumes has been nearly all put in proper shape 

 by the liberal appropriations of the few preceding years. 



A careful count of the books now in the possession of the Academy 

 furnishes the following statistics : 



Journals 



Geology 



General Natural History 



Botany 



Voyages and Travels 



Anatomy and Physiology... 



Anthropology 



Entomology 



Ornithology 



Conchology 



Dictionaries and Encyclopedias. 



Agriculture. 



Medicine 



Bibliography 



Physical Science. 

 Mineralogy 



32,926 Geography 640 



3,851 Mathematics 577 



3,458 Mammalogy 430 



3,405 Ichthyology 405 



2,307 Helminthology 311 



1,961 Philology 298 



1,573 Chemistry 293 



1,379 Herpetology 204 



1,054 Meigs Library (Miscellaneous).... 1,794 



952 Warner Library (Miscellaneous) 132 



891 Library of the Entomological 



882 Section (American Entomol- 



809 ogical Society) 4,150 



744 Unclassified 374 



690 



671 67,161 



This is an increase of 15,912 volumes since the enumeration of 1901. 

 In view of the strictly special character of the library this should be 

 regarded as a gratifying exhibit. It represents the steady current 

 growth of the collections, no large libraries having been received 

 en bloc. The separate pamphlets have not been counted, but an 

 estimate has been made of the number of volumes those still unbound 

 would make if arranged uniformly with the rest of the collection. 



Many of the volumes in the library of the Entomological Section 

 are duplicates of those on the shelves of the Academy. There is an 

 apparent falling off of 121 volumes on Conchology instead of an in- 

 crease, but this is accounted for by the fact that the Conchological 

 journals were formerly plaeed with the special books on that subject, 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



whereas they have now been transferred to the section of Journals 

 and Periodicals, where they properly belong. Similarly some of the 

 books in the Meigs Library have been removed from the miscellaneous 

 collection, which is only retained because of a condition imposed by 

 the donor, John G. Meigs. 1 The separated books have been placed 

 with related works in the general library. 



Special attention may be called to the following accessions: 



Nature Notes. London. Eighteen volumes. 



Giornale Arcadico di Scienze, Roma. Seventeen volumes. 



Memoires de la Societe Geologique de France; Paleontologie. Volumes V-XVI. 



Annates de V Universite de Grenoble. Twenty-one volumes. 



Thurston's Castes and Tribes of Southern India. Seven volumes. 



Grote, Vogt and Hofer's Siisswasser Fische von Miiteleivropa. 



George G. Heye Expedition, Contributions to South American Archceology. 



The Academy is indebted to His Royal and Imperial Highness the 

 Grand Duke Ludwig Salvator of Austria for the gift of twenty-three 

 superbly illustrated volumes, the privately printed records of many 

 years of travel and exploration. The works relate for the most part 

 to the geography, physical characters, ethnography and history of 

 some of the islands of the Mediterranean Sea and are finely illustrated 

 with hundreds of figures and plates. The collection includes a beauti- 

 ful panorama, twelve feet in length, of the Bay of Alexandrette, the 

 ancient Alexandria ad Issum. 



The books were secured through the active interest of the late 

 Dr. Theodore de Thodorovitch, who, as a member of the Academy 

 and in his official capacity as Austro-Hungarian Consul, represented 

 the claims of the library as a depository of the desired works based on 

 its importance to students of science and its liberality of adminis- 

 tration. 



It is a cause of sincere regret that the death of Dr. de Thodorovitch 

 before the arrival of the volumes deprived the Academy of the oppor- 

 tunity of making to him the acknowledgment of obligation he so well 

 deserved. 



We are also indebted to the Hon. Maurice Francis Egan, our Minister 

 to Denmark, for his co-operation in securing by exchange the valuable 

 publications of Dr. Wesenburg-Lund's Fresh-water Laboratory, which 

 we were not able to procure through the booksellers. 



The following new serials have been added to the library during 

 the year : 



1 See Report of Librarian for 1895. 





X 



(X 



J 

 w 



Q 



< 



a, 

 o 



co 

 U 

 O 



Z 



u 

 o 



CO 



< 



D 

 H 

 < 

 Z 



fa 



o 

 >• 



w 

 a 

 < 



< 



X 



c 

 e- 

 < 

 e 

 C 

 pa 

 •< 



c 

 z 



■< 



o 



c 



K 

 K 



o 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 679 



Geologische Rundschau. Leipzig. 



Biologische Zeitschrift. Moscow. 



Der Pilzfreund. Lucerne. 



Nature Study Review. Urbana. 



Midland Naturalist. Notre Dame. 



Der Naturfreund. Godesberg. 



Unsere Welt. Godesburg. 



Natur. Leipzig. 



Bolletino del Museo Cirico di Firenze. 



South African Journal of Science. 



Folia Hwmatologia. Leipzig. 



Proceedings of the Association of Economic Biologists. London. 



In the course of a careful revision of the arrangement and cata- 

 loguing of the journals as now placed in the stacks, fifty numbers, 

 nearly all unimportant, could not be found. Some of these may be 

 misplaced, although a careful search has been made for them, and 

 others may be returned. These were not reported in 1904 when the 

 last account of stock was taken, because of the lack of a shelf-list of 

 the section of Journals and Periodicals, so that the loss extends over 

 an undetermined number of years. Since that account was taken 

 two works, then reported missing, have been returned, but sixteen 

 others cannot be found. It may be that some of these have been 

 illegally borrowed and will be also brought back, but it is much to be 

 feared that a volume of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey Reports, 

 Catlin's Indians, edition of 1841, Jardine's Wilson's Ornithology, 

 Wolle's Diatoms, Gurney's Distillation (of which the title-card was 

 also stolen from the catalogue) and Chavasse's Advice to a Wife have 

 been taken by the most detestably mean of all thieves, the one who 

 appropriates for his own use what is being held for the general good. 



It is believed that these losses were all incurred before the arrange- 

 ment of the library in the stacks. 



The Librarian attended the International Conference of Archivists 

 and Librarians in Bruxelles, August 28-31. The proceedings were 

 not of much importance to the Academy, but the brief visit to Belgium, 

 especially to the towns between Antwerp and Bruxelles, was full of 

 delight and profit. 



It gives the Librarian much pleasure to again acknowledge his 

 indebtedness to his Assistant. William J. Fox, who, by his co-operation 

 in the work of the Publication Committee, as well as of the Library, 

 has afforded the opportunity for progress with the proposed detailed 

 history of the Academy. 



Efficient service has also been rendered by Furman Sheppard Wilde, 

 who has been an assistant in the library since last February. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 

 44 




680 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The plans outlined in the Curators' report for 1909 for alterations 

 in the exterior of the building, made possible by the appropriation of 

 $60,000 by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania at the last session of 

 the Legislature, have been successfully carried out. 



The walls of the original green-stone building have been encased 

 in granite, brick and terra cotta, which effectually checks any further 

 deterioration and makes this wing uniform in appearance with the 

 new library wing on Cherry Street. Granite and terra cotta facings 

 have also been added to the middle brick building to bring it into 

 harmonv with the other two. A number of the windows have been 

 altered with the object of furnishing additional light and conforming 

 to the general architectural design, while new doorways have been 

 constructed at the entrances on Race and Nineteenth Streets. 



The results of the alterations are very satisfactory, making one 

 harmonious building of the several wings that have been erected at 

 different periods since the Academy first occupied its present site. 



A slight alteration was made during the year in the library building, 

 by which two office rooms on the gallery were thrown together, making 

 a commodious Council room, to which the bookcases and other 

 furnishings of the old Council room have been transferred. Addi- 

 tional radiators were erected in the herbarium, and two laboratory 

 tables and a number of rugs were purchased for the work-rooms and 

 offices of the scientific staff. 



The building operations which were in progress during the greater 

 part of the year naturally interfered with any extensive rearrange- 

 ment of the exhibits. The north wing had to be closed entirely for 

 several months and the cleansing and replacing of the cases have only 

 just been completed. 



In the middle wing the entire exhibition series of Mammals has 

 been removed from the cases, the floors of which were then repainted 

 and the specimens, after being carefully cleansed, were replaced. 



The skeleton of the Indian Elephant "Bolivar" was articulated 

 and placed beside the mounted skin, while several other large skeletons 

 were remounted. 



On the bird gallery the labelling of the exhibition collection was 

 practically completed. 



In addition to the work on the Mammals and Osteological collection, 

 Mr. McCadden, the taxidermist, has prepared a number of skins and 

 skeletons for the study collection, including the skeleton of a Lesser 

 Sperm Whale. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



A large amount of research and routine work has been done by 

 members of the staff in connection with the study collections as 

 outlined in the accompanying special reports. 



Beside this, Dr. J. P. Moore has cared for the collection of annelids 

 and has studied and described the extensive collections dredged in 

 the North Pacific by expeditions representing the U. S. Bureau of 

 Fisheries, Leland Stanford University, and the University of California, 

 from which the Academy receives duplicates. Numerous other 

 specimens of worms submitted by institutions and individuals have 

 been identified. 



Mr. H. W. Fowler has cared for the collection of fishes 

 and, beside routine work, has critically studied and reidentified 

 the batoid, chimseroid and ganoid fishes and part of the clupeoids, 

 preparing seven papers for the Academy's Proceedings. 



Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, in the portion of his time devoted to Entomology, 

 has studied the North Carolina Orthoptera in the Academy collection 

 and that of Mr. Morgan Hebard and prepared a paper on the subject 

 for the Proceedings, as well as on the collection of Georgia and 

 Florida Orthoptera submitted by the Georgia State Entomologist, 

 from which the Academy received duplicates. He has likewise 

 published a revision of the genus Ischnoptera. 



Miss H.N. Wardle has continued the cataloguing of the Archaeologi- 

 cal collection. 



The Curators are also indebted to Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr., 

 for aid in the entomological department, and to Messrs. S. S. Van Pelt 

 and Bayard Long for voluntary work in mounting and caring for the 

 local collection of plants. 



A number of important field trips were taken during the year in the 

 interest of the Academy. Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent several months in 

 Arizona making collections of Mollusks, Reptiles and Plants. Mr. 

 Vanatta spent some weeks in Bermuda, and Dr. Moore was at Martha's 

 Vineyard during the summer, both of them obtaining interesting 

 invertebrate material, while Mr. Stewardson Brown, during a month's 

 sojourn in Jamaica, secured a valuable series of the plants of the island. 



Through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, Mr. Rehn was 

 enabled to join him on another tour of the Western States in search 

 of Orthoptera and a large collection was made in which the Academy 

 shares. Numerous local collecting trips were also taken by members 

 of the staff. 



Among the important accessions of the year may be mentioned the 

 valuable unique specimens obtained by Mr. Clarence B. Moore during 




682 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



his continued investigations among the Indian mounds of the southern 

 United States, for the accommodation of which Mr. Moore has pre- 

 sented another mahogany and plate-glass exhibition case. 



Dr. Amos P. Brown has presented an extensive series of mollusks 

 obtained by him during several trips to Jamaica during the year, and 

 Mr. Joseph Crawford, who accompanied him on one trip, has presented 

 a collection of Jamaican plants. 



The H. H. Smith 1905-09 collections of fresh-water mollusks of 

 Alabama were obtained by purchase, and a collection of birds from 

 Chihuahua, Mexico, was presented by Dr. William E. Hughes. A 

 number of mammals were also received from the Zoological Society 

 of Philadelphia. 



Thirty-one storage cases and two hundred insect boxes were procured 

 during the year. 



There has been a good attendance of visitors to the Museum, 

 especially on Sunday afternoons, and a marked increase is noticeable 

 in the number of school classes which have visited the institution under 

 the charge of their teachers. 



A number of visiting specialists have made use of the study col- 

 lections during the year in the various departments of the Museum, 

 and specimens have been loaned to the following: W. W. Eggleston, 

 L. W. Riddle, Bayard Long, Ivar Arividson, W. E. Clyde Todd, 

 Robert Ridgway, P. Wytsman, C. H. Eigenmann, D. G. Elliot and 



J. C. Merriam. 



Samuel G. Dixox, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 



WlTMER STOXE, 



Curators. 



Report of the Departmext of Mollusca, 



During the past year continued progress has been made in the 

 arrangement of the study collections of mollusks. About half of 

 the alcoholic series has been overhauled and classified in the new 

 storage cases. No work has been done on the display collection 

 owing to building operations. 



Over 4,000 lots have been added to the collection, the number of 

 individual specimens being estimated at over 25.000. Among the 

 more interesting gifts to the collection the following may be mentioned : 

 series of Jamaican and Panamic land snails collected by Dr. Amos P. 

 Brown ; South American shells sent by Dr. H. von Ihering of the 

 Museu Paulista, Brazil, and a series from the Kaibab and Kanab 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. tiSo 



plateaus, Arizona, collected by Messrs. J. H. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels 

 in 1909. Mr. Clarence B. Moore and Mr. Y. Hirase have continued 

 to contribute valuable material. 



Through illness the Department was deprived of the services of 

 Mr. Vanatta during six months of the year, but he took advantage 

 of the period of convalescence to collect an extensive and valuable 

 series of the mollusks of Bermuda. Mr. Vanatta has demonstrated 

 that Bermuda has a fresh-water fauna containing no less than five 

 genera of mollusks. Hitherto it has been supposed that no native 

 fresh-water mollusks existed there. 



Work on the Manual of Coxchology has been directed to the 

 Hawaiian family Achatinellidce. 



Papers have been published by the Special Curator during the year 

 on the mollusks of Mexico; of the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona; 

 on land mollusks of Panama, and of Jamaica (in collaboration with 

 Dr. Brown) ; on Haitian Oligocene fossils, etc. Mr. Vanatta has 

 prepared a paper on the mollusks of Bermuda for publication in the 

 Proceedings. 



The Special Curator spent three months, beginning August loth, in 

 the exploration of southern New Mexico and Arizona, in company 

 with Messrs. Ferriss and Daniels. The Hachita Grande, Santa Rita, 

 Baboquivari, Dragoon and other mountain ranges were studied. It 

 is believed that the observations made will add materially to our 

 knowledge of the zoogeography of the arid southwest. The collections 

 are also interesting systematically, since a large number of species 

 new to science was encountered. 



Henry A. Pilsbrv. 



Special Curator. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Nine regular and eight informal meetings have been held during 

 the year, with the usual attendance. The membership is the same in 

 number as last year, one resignation having occurred and one new 

 member being admitted. In accordance with custom, the proceedings 

 at the meetings have consisted chiefly of oral communications, in 

 which each member present has shared, of microscopical studies, many 

 of which have represented original work. It is to be regretted that 




(384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



in an association composed of amateurs Avhose time is limited work 

 of much scientific value is impossible. There are lines, however, along 

 which the Section may direct good work and it is suggested that a 

 descriptive catalogue of the local cryptogamic flora, not heretofore 

 published, be attempted, in conjunction, possibly, with other Sections 

 of the Academy. 



Among papers presented and published are two by Mr. T. Chalkley 

 Palmer: A New Diatom, and Stauroneis Terryi. 



At a special meeting of the Section held in April, in the Library 

 of the Academy, an exhibition of microscopical objects was presented 

 to a large audience. A number of papers also were read and are noted 

 in the Proceedings. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows: 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer. 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



( 'urator F. J. Keeley. 



Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Entomological Section. 



The scientific communications made to the Section during the year 

 have been published in the Entomological News. This journal has 

 completed its twenty-first volume with the December number for this 

 year. For 1910, 484 pages and 14 plates were issued. 



The usual meetings of the Section have been held, with an average 

 attendance of nine persons. 



Two members and two associates have been elected. The additions 

 to the collection have been numerous. Mr. Morgan Hebard presented 

 1,047 specimens of Orthoptera and 3,605 specimens of the same order 

 were purchased by the Academy. In all 5,957 insects were added to 

 the collections. 



One hundred and fifty boxes have been acquired to accommodate 

 this growth. The safety and rearrangement of the collection has had 

 the usual care, and with the improvement in cases and boxes the 

 danger from museum pests has been greatly decreased. 



The entire exotic series of Orthoptera, the North American For- 

 ficuliche. Blattidse, Mantida?, Phasmidae and Gryllidae have been 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 685 



rearranged, together with the duplicate Hymenoptera, the collection 

 of galls and the Dipterous family Stratiomyidse. 



A large part of the Micro-lepidoptera has been relaxed and mounted 

 and nearly the entire series of North American Rhopalocera has been 

 rearranged. Much of the Hemiptera has been recently studied and 

 named by a specialist. The incorporation of the additions to the 

 collection has taken much time, and the Section is indebted to those 

 students not directly responsible for the work. 



Mr. Rehn has had charge of the Orthoptera and Dr. Calvert has 

 continued to care for the large and valuable collection of Odonata. 

 Mr. E. T. Cresson is working on the arrangement of parts of the col- 

 lection of Hymenoptera. 



The Conservator represented the Academy at the First International 

 Entomological Congress, held in Brussels, Belgium, last August. 



This meeting demonstrated the great importance of entomology 

 from a practical or economic standpoint, particularly that branch of 

 economic entomology relating to the dissemination of disease by 

 insects and the carriage of germ diseases to man. 



The following persons were elected officers to serve for the ensuing 

 year : 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director H. W. Wenzel. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Recorder Henry Skinner. 



Secretary E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson, 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Botanical Section. 



Five double wooden cases, which had to be moved from the north 

 room owing to the change of windows on Race Street, were transferred 

 to the local herbarium, the plants contained in them being moved 

 into new dust- and insect-proof metal cases. But little work has been 

 done on the arrangement of the herbarium owing to the remodelling 

 of the building, though the preparation and mounting of specimens 

 has gone on with but little interruption. 



Some important additions have been made to the collections during 

 the year. The Conservator spent about a month in Jamaica and brought 

 back a collection of more than 850 sheets. Mr. Joseph Crawford spent 




686 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



about the same length of time in Panama and Jamaica, adding about 

 S00 sheets, and more than 100 sheets from Jamaica and Cuba have 

 been received in exchange from the New York Botanical Garden. 

 On the Academy's expedition to Arizona and New Mexico, in the 

 latter part of the year, Dr. Pilsbry collected nearly 800 sheets of 

 plants, and 640 sheets, principally from Nevada and California, have 

 been purchased by the Section from Mr. A. A. Heller. Other collec- 

 tions, aggregating about 400 sheets, have been received from B. H. 

 Smith, Dr. C. D. Fretz, Witmer Stone and Charles S. Williamson. 



The work in the local herbarium has been carried on with greater 

 effect than during any previous year, the 3,511 sheets added by the 

 members of the Philadelphia Botanical Club having been mounted and 

 distributed by Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt. Much valuable work, espe- 

 cially in studying some of the more complex groups, has been done by 

 Mr. Bayard Long. 



During the year a small printing outfit was added to the equipment 

 of the herbarium, resulting in the saving of much time and labor in 

 label writing, besides insuring uniformity in style and size of labels. 

 Acknowledgment is here made of the continued assistance in the 

 herbarium during the year of Miss Ada Allen. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held on December 6, the 

 following were elected as officers for the year : 



Director Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Secretary and Recorder Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewards* >n Brown, 



Conservator. 



MlNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section has this year held five meetings, besides meeting once 

 (May 17) in conjunction with the Academy. Communications were 

 made by Mr. S. L. Schumo, with his own photographic illustrations, 

 on pot-holes at the Falls of Schuylkill; by Prof. Chester A. Reeds, on 

 the geology of the Arbuckle Mountains, Oklahoma; by Dr. Edgar T. 

 Wherry, on copper deposits of Franklin and Adams Counties, Pa., 

 besides various shorter communications and discussions. 



There were seven field excursions of the Section, with an average 

 attendance of about twenty-five. The excursions visited: (1) The 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



crystalline rocks, old Paleozoic rocks and a trap dike near Lafayette, 

 Marble Hall and Spring Mill, Montgomery County; (2) The crystalline 

 rocks south of West Chester ; (3) The New Red and crystalline rocks near 

 Langhorne, Bucks County; (4) The crystalline rocks between Newtown 

 Square and Wallingford, Delaware County; (5) The minerals and 

 fossils near Mullica Hill, N. J. ; (6) The crystalline rocks near Paoli 

 and Castle Rock, Delaware County ; (7) The New Red rocks near the 

 Buckingham Mountain fault, in Bucks County. 



The membership of the Section has increased by one associate 

 member. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 

 1911: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director Frank J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary S. L. Schumo. 



Treasurer William B. Davis. 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. 



As was the case last year, work in the Ornithological department 

 has been seriously handicapped by the absence of Mr. Rehn in the 

 West during three months and the general curatorial work that has 

 devolved upon the Conservator. Nevertheless, much progress has 

 been made in the arrangement of the collection. All of the remaining 

 mounted birds, with the exception of the humming-birds, have been 

 identified and labelled, practically completing this important piece 

 of work. 



In the study collection all of the families of Passerine birds from the 

 thrushes to the crows, comprising some 450 drawers of skins, have 

 been reidentified and rearranged, while all the species represented 

 in the collection have been checked off in Sharpe's Hand List of Birds, 

 so that it will soon be possible to see at a glance exactly what species 

 the Academy possesses in each family. 



Labels have also been placed on all the drawers as far as the Turdidae. 



Twelve metal cases were procured during the year, part of which 

 were used in the rearrangment of the Passeres, while the others were 




68S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



allotted to the type specimens, which were carefully examined and 

 rearranged systematically. 



Among the important accessions of the past year may be mentioned 

 the local collection of Mr. F. Guy Meyers, a valuable series of Chihua- 

 huan birds presented by Dr. William E. Hughes, and a series of Costa 

 Rican birds obtained by purchase. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Spencer Baird Ornitho- 

 logical Club and Pennsylvania Audubon Society have held their 

 meetings at the Academy during the year. 



The Conservator is indebted to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn for valuable 

 assistance in cataloguing and for preparing the labels for the mounted 

 birds, and to Mr. E. J. F. Marx, of the Delaware Valley Club, who 

 spent several veeks as voluntary assistant in rearranging portions of 

 the collection. 



At the annual meeting the following officers were elected. 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Conservator and Treasurer Witmer Stone. 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the 



Committee on Accounts to serve during 1910 was held, with the follow- 

 ing result : 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D. 



John Cadwalader. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Curators Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three years.. Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., 



Edwin S. Dixon, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D. 




1910.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 689 



Councillor for unexpired term of 



one year William E. Hughes, M.D. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 



John G. Rothermel, 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D., 



Frank J. Keeley. 



COUNCIL FOR 1911. 



Ex-Offlcio — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., 

 John Cadwalader, Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Yaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone and 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Robert G. LeConte, M.D. 



To serve two years. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frederick Prime Frank J. Keeley. 



To serve one year. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Charles Morris, Spencer 

 Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Aid in Arch.eology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Taxidermist David N. McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance. — John CadwaJader, E. 8. Dixon, Effingham B. Morris^ 



William D. Winsor and the Treasurer. 

 Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, Henry A. 



Pilsbry, William J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Library. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 



Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley and Thomas Biddle, M.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 



Morris, Witmer Stone, Henry Tucker, M.D., George Spencer 



Morris. 

 Committee of Council ox By-Laws. — Thomas Fenton, M.D., 



John Cadwalader, Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Witmer Stone. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1910. 



Members. 



January 18. — Hamilton D. Carpenter. 



February 15. — Merkel H. Jacobs, Ph.D., E. Waterman Dwight 



Edward Anthony Spitzka, M.D. 

 April 19. — John B. Henderson, Jr. 

 May 17. — Edgar Madison Ledyard. 

 November 15. — Robert Adams, Jr. 



Correspondents. 



November 15. — Edward B. Poulton, D.Sc, A.M., of Oxford; Thomas 

 Hunt Morgan, Ph.D., of New York; Leland Ossian Howard, 

 Ph.D., of Washington. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 691 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM, 1910. 

 Mammals. 



O. H. Bhown. Hoarj' Bat (Lasiurus cinerus), Cape May, N. J. 



Robert D. Carson. Dormouse Lemur (M icrocebus myoxinus). 



F. W. Cassedy. Albino Grey Squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), Cape May, N. J. 



Benjamin Chew. Mounted head of Asiatic Ibex (Capra sibirica), Thian 

 Shan Mountains, Chinese Turkestan. 



J. H. Ferriss. Skin and skull of Coues's Deer (Odocoileus couesi), Santa 

 Catalina Mountains, Arizona. 



J. Habisreitinger. Albino Mink skin (Lutreola vison). 



Dr. J. Percy Moore. Seven specimens of White-footed Mouse (Peromyscus 

 leucopus fusus), Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



Purchased. Pygmy Sperm Whale (Kogia breviceps), Sea Isle City, N. J. 

 Skin and skull of Beaver (Castor canadensis) . 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Albino Streator's Chickaree (Sciurus hudsonicus 

 streatori), Glacier, B. C. 



Charles S. Wells. Skull of Red Fox (Vulpes fulvus). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted: Potto (Perodicticus potto): skin and skull; two white-throated 

 Monkeys (Cercopithecus albigularis), Moloney's Monkey (Cercopithecus moloneyi), 

 Woolly Monkey (Lagothrix sp.), Black-backed Jackal (Canis mesomelas), 

 White-whiskered Paradoxure (Paradoxurus leucomystax), two individuals of 

 brown phase of Black Bear (Ursus americanus), California Sea-lion (Zalophus 

 calif ornianus) , Kangaroo Rat (Dipodomys elator), American Porcupine (Erethizon 

 dorsatum), Bridled Wallaby (Onychogale frenata): skin and skeleton; Lion 

 "Prince" (Felis leo), European Brown Bear (Ursus arctos), Sing-sing Antelope 

 (Kobus unctuosus): skull; Reddish Macaque (Macacus rufescens). 



Birds. 



Edw. E. Armstrong. Two Lapland Longspur (Calcarius lapponicus), Illinois. 



Dr. William E. Hughes. Collection of Chihuahuan birds. Meyers collec- 

 tion of Pennsylvania and Virginia birds. 



Dr. James V. Ingham. Ten skins of Trinidad Humming-birds. 



Wm. H. Patterson. Skin of Mynah (Mainatus intermedins). 



Purchased. Collection of Costa Rican birds. One long-tailed Duck (Harelda 

 hyemalis) and two black Duck (Anas rubripes), Sea Isle City, N. J. 



Mrs. Charles Roberts. Two Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus), Alaska. One 

 Great-horned Owl (Bubo virginianus) . 



Mrs. J. D. Winsor. Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica cairidescens). 



David H. Wright. Short-eared Owl (Asio accipitrinus). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Skeleton of Single-wattled Cassowary 

 (Casuarius unappe?idiculatus). Jobi Island Cassowary (Casuarius unappen- 

 dicidatus occipitalis), mounted. 




692 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Jacob Aebly. Tree-toad (Hyla versicolor), Philadelphia. 



O. H. Brown. Spade-foot Toad (Scaphiopus holbrooki), Cold Spring, Cape 

 May County, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Jar of Frogs, Toads and Salamanders (Elaphe and Natrix 

 sipedon), three mud turtles (Kinosterum pensylvanicum) , Big Bohemia Creek, 

 Md. Several species of Hyla, Holmesburg, Philadelphia. 



J. B. Hutcher. Tadpole, Patagonia. 



J. W. Holman. Opaque Salamander (Ambystoma opacum), Ocean County, 

 N.J. 



C. J. Hunt. Green Snake (Liopcltis vemalis), Chicago, 111. Swamp Tree- 

 toad {Pseudacris triseriatus), Riverside, 111. 



Hebard-Rehn Expedition 1910. Eighty-one reptiles and amphibians, 

 western United States. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Numerous collections of reptiles and amphibians, Penn- 

 sylvania . 



H. L. Mather and Edw. Carr, Jr. Several Salamanders. 



H. A. Pilsbry. One Box-tortoise (Terrepene sp.), Arizona. 



Pilsbry Expedition 1910. Sixty-five reptiles and amphibians, Southwestern 

 United States. 



H. Porter and H. W. Fowler. Jar of amphibians, Newark, Del. 



Louis H. Schmidt. Mounted Leather-back Turtle (Dermochelys coriaceus), 

 Portland, Me. 



L. S. Snyder. Collection of Salamanders and Toads, Montgomery County, Pa. 



C. H. Stall. Copperhead Snake (Agkistrodon contortrix) and Hellbender 

 (Cryptobranchus alley aniensis), Newton Hamilton, Pa. 



Mrs. Linda Sullivan. Hyla squirella, from head of Florida lettuce. 



James Tague. Five-legged Frog (Rana clamata), Philadelphia. 



E. G. Vanatta. Two Lizards and one Toad, Bermuda. 



William Welsh. Red-bellied Turtle (Pseudemys rubriventris), May's Land- 

 ing, N. J. 



Fishes. 



R. M. Abbott and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Lake Hopatcong, 

 N.J. 



Jacob Aebley. Disarticulated skull of Anarrhichas lupus, Maine. 



Cornell University. Collection of Cyprinoids (in exchange). 



Frank Ericson. Two young Dolphins (Coryphosna hippurus), Sea Isle City, 

 N. J. 



R. B. Farley. Sting-ray (Dasyatis say), Barnegat, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of several hundred fishes fromXBigXBohemia 

 Creek, Md. Also a collection from Delaware County, Pa., and Manasquan, 

 N. J. Several fishes from Bustleton, Philadelphia. Collection of young fishes 

 from Burlington, N. J. One hundred fishes, Wycombe, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and H. L. Mather, Jr. Local collections of fishes. Collec- 

 tion of fishes from Neshaminy Creek. Jar of fishes, Oaymont, Del. Small 

 collection of fishes from Carcroft, Del. 



W. J. Fox. Raja ocellata, two Phycis chuss, one Merluccius bili7iearis t , two 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



Astroscopus guttatus, young Albacora thynnus, Lobotes suri7iamensis from Sea 

 Isle City, N. J. Mandible of grouper from Townsend's Inlet, N. J. 



B. W. Griffiths and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Elmer, N. J. 



H. Walker Hand. Scioenops ocellatus, Cape May, N. J. 



F. J. Keeley. Trigger Fish (Balistes carolinensis), Great Egg Harbor, 

 N.J. 



T. D. Keim. Small collection of fishes, northern New Jersey and vicinity 

 of New York City. Three jars of fishes from Long Island Sound. 



T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. Small collection of fishes, Burlington Island, 

 N. J. Eight jars of fishes from Delaware. 



E. J. F. Marx and H. W. Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Easton, Pa. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Seven jars of fishes, Newton Hamilton, Pa. Jar of 

 fishes from Philadelphia and three jars of fishes from Altoona, Pa. 



D. N. McCadden. Rachycentron and Echeneis, Ocean City, N. J. Sole 

 (Achirus fasciatus), Ocean City, N. J. Also collection of fishes from same place. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Collection of fishes, Corson's Inlet, N. J. Also Paralepis 

 from same locality. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips and H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Corson's Inlet, 

 N. J. Four jars of fishes from Wilmington, Del. 



Pilsbry Expedition 1910. Three species of fishes, Arizona. 



H. Porter and H. W. Fowler. Jar of fishes, Newark, Del. 



E. G. Vanatta. Three fishes, Bermuda. 



Insects. 



Stewardson Brown. Three Lepidoptera, Jamaica. 

 P. P. Calvert. Twenty-one Neuroptera, Costa Rica. 

 T. D. A. Cockerell. Two Coccida?, Trinidad. 



Exchange. Seventy Orthoptera, Georgia and Florida; four Lepidoptera, 

 New Mexico. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. Seventy-nine Diptera, United States. 

 H. W. Fowler. Five Orthoptera, Delaware. 



G. M. Greene. Seventeen Orthoptera, Pennsylvania; two Coleoptera, New 

 Jersey. 



Fordyce Grinnell, Jr. Forty-six Orthoptera, California. 



F. Haimbach. Five Lepidoptera, Massachusetts. 

 H. S. Harbeck. Two Hymenoptera, New Jersey. 



Morgan Hebard. Four himdred and seventy-eight Orthoptera, North 

 Carolina; four hundred and sixty-seven Orthoptera, Sapucay, Paraguay; one 

 hundred and two Orthoptera, Manitoba. 



Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Twenty-five insects, Virginia and 

 North Carolina. 



Frank M. Jones. Fifty-three Orthoptera, Mississippi. 



Joseph McFarland. One hundred and fifty insects, United States. 



A. de Winkelried Bertoni. Thirty-two Orthoptera, Paraguay. 



L. C. Pheley. Sixteen Orthoptera, Kentucky. 



W. D. Pierce. Sixteen Strepsiptera, Kentucky. 



G. R. Pilate. Two hundred Coleoptera, California. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Seven Coleoptera, Arizona; five Orthoptera, Arizona and 

 New Mexico. 




694 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Purchased. Two thousand five hundred and six Orthoptera, Africa and 

 Peru; five hundred and ninety-one Orthoptera, Trinidad and Venezuela; three 

 hundred and fifty Orthoptera, Jalisco, Mexico; one hundred and fifty-eight 

 Orthoptera, Natal. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Eleven Lepidoptera, Canada. 



C. Schrottky. Twenty-one Orthoptera, Paraguay. 



Henry Skinner. Six Lepidoptera, British Columbia; one Coleoptera, 

 Pennsylvania; three Lepidoptera, Alaska. 



E. A. Smyth, Jr. Two Lepidoptera, Central America. 



Witmer Stone. Eleven insects, Massachusetts. 



Lancaster Thomas. Five hundred Lepidoptera, North Carolina. 



E. P. Van Duzee. One Hemiptera, Florida. 



W. H. Wheeler. Five Hymenoptera, Nova Scotia. 



Five thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven specimens. 



Recent Mollusca. 



R. M. Abbott and H. W . Fowler. Ten trays of fresh-water shells from Lake 

 Hopatcong, N. J. 



Benjamin Albertson. Two species of shells from Nantucket, Mass. 



John A. Allen. Nineteen species of shells from Tahiti and Ohio. 



J. L. and A. L. Baily, Jr. Sixty trays of shells from Europe. 



Dr. F. Baker. Seven species of marine shells from the west coast of America. 



Dr. Amos F. Brown. Four hundred and seventy-seven trays of Jamaica shells. 



Francis H. Brown. Three species of fresh-water shells from Canada. 



Stewardson Brown. Planorbis from Norwood, Jamaica. 



Owen Bryant. Paludcstrijia from Bermuda. 



G. W. Caffrey. Helix from Spain. 



A. W. Clime. Fourteen specimens of Unto from Arkansas. 



C. H. Conner. Nine trays of land and fresh-water shells from Pennsylvania. 



C. M. Cooke. Thirty-two trays of Lepachatina from the Hawaiian Isles. 



Dr. W. H. Dall. Six trays of shells from Africa and North America. 



L. E. Daniels and J. H. Ferriss. Fifty-eight trays of shells from Arizona. 



Prof. C. A. Davis. Two sets of Paludestrina from Bermuda. 



H. K. Deisher. Five species of land and fresh-water shells from Kurtz- 

 town, Pa. 



J. H. Ferriss. One hundred and forty-one trays of land shells from Arizona. 

 H. W. Fowler. Thirty-five trays of shells from Pennsylvania and Maryland. 

 Morgan Hebard. Twenty-three species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Florida. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Five species of land shells from Hamilton County, N. Y. 

 Y. Hirase. Forty-three species of land shells from Corea, Japan and China. 

 H. v.'Ihering. Forty-one trays of fresh-water shells from South America. 

 Samuel R. Jacobs. Eight species of shells from Ireland and Pennsylvania. 

 T. D. Keim. Twelve traj r s of shells from Delaware and Connecticut. 

 C. A. Kofoid. Helix aspersa Mull from Berkeley, Cal. 

 J. G. Malone. Sixteen species of West Coast shells. 



H. T. Mather, Jr. Six species of fresh-water shells from Hamilton County, Pa. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Three hundred and thirty-five trays of shells from 

 Florida . 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 695 



Stanley B. Mooke. Ariolimax columbianus GUI. from Pinole, Cal. 



Dr. A. E. Ortmann. Fourteen species of Unios from western Pennsylvania. 



W. H. Over. Seventeen trays of land and fresh-water shells from South 

 Dakota. 



Patagonian Expedition. One hundred and thirty-five trays of South 

 American shells. 



Major A. J. Peile, R. A. Fifteen species of shells from Bermuda and Africa. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. Two hundred and five trays of shells from Arizona and 

 Eastern States. 



Purchased. One thousand seven hundred and eighty-one trays of shells. 



J. A. G. Rehx. Three species of land shells from Western States. 



S. N. Rhoads. Forty-eight trays of shells from England. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Polygyra thyroides Say from Mont Clair, N. J. 



C. T. Simpson. Two shells from Porto Rico. 



Dr. H. Skinner. Nine species of land shells from Italy and Dalmatia. 

 Dr. V. Sterki. Three species of shells from Indiana and Ohio. 

 Witmer Stoxe. Seventy-three trays of shells from the Atlantic coast of 

 United States. 



E. G. Vaxatta. Two hundred and ten trays of shells from Bermuda. 



Bryant Walker. Nine trays of American fresh-water shells. 



Miss H.N. Wardle. Five species of land shells from Mexico. 



H. W. Wexzel. Campeloma decisum Say. Pocono, Pa. 



H. W. Winkley. Three trays of New England shells. 



R. T. Young. Twenty-two species of shells from Devil's Lake, N. D. 



Ixvertebrates (other than Insects and Mollusks). 



W. J. Becker. Estheria californica, Pacific Grove, Cal. 



Dr. A. P. Brown. Peripatus, Jamaica. 



W. T. Kxecht. Balanus cburneus. 



J. G. Maloxe. Echinoderm and Balanus, Alaska. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Several Crayfish (Cambarus). 



D. N. McCaddex. Isopod from rock bass, Ocean City, N. J. 

 Thomas O. Mitchell. Barnacles from turtle, Atlantic City, N. J. 



J. Percy Moore. Sixty-nine bottles of scaled Polychseta, including retypes 

 of nine species, from deep water off California. 



Wji. V. Morgax. Bryozoan, Bermuda. 



W. H. Over. Estheria morsel Date, South Dakota. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Myriapod, Ventnor, N. J., and two Scorpions, Arizona. 



Prixcetox Patagonian Expedition. Three trays of Brachiopods. 



Purchased. Fifteen trays of Terebratulina, Atlantic Ocean. 



Charles E. Ronaldsox. Shells of King-crab (Limulus), Buzzard's Bay, 

 Mass. 



Witmer Stoxe. Fourteen trays of invertebrates, New Jersey and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Uxited States Fish Commissiox. Collection of invertebrates made on the 

 Albatross Hawaiian Expedition. 



E. G. Vaxatta. Six jars of invertebrates, Bermuda. 

 Wm. T. Wright. Pcctinatclla magnified, St. David's, Pa. 



•45 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. 



Fossils Vertebrate. 

 Exchange with J. F. Mouldy. Collection of Moa bones, New Zealand. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



H. K. Deisher. Slab of brachiopods, Berks County, Pa. Several slabs oi 

 dendrites. Twenty-nine trays of fossils, United States. Twenty-two specim 

 of fossils, Pennsylvania and Missouri. 



Dr. Henry Fox. Twenty-nine trays of fossils, Jericho and New Egypt, X. J. : 

 twenty-nine trays of Miocene fossils from New Jersey. 



Wm. Imes. Fossils brachiopods and mollusks, Juniata County, Pa. 



H. K. Deisher. Thirty trays of fossils from Clarion County, Pa. 



Dr. J. Percy Moore. Cretaceous fossils from Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



Minerals. 



Mrs. M. Brinkman. Collection of minerals. 



H. K. Deisher. Collection of minerals. Berks County. Pa. 



George E. Eiwe. Hexagonal volcanic- rock. 



Wm. Imes. Quartz crystals, Juniata County, Pa. 



Spencer Penrose. Jillsanite, Ashley Valley, Utah. 



C. E. Ronaldson. Garnets, Maine. 



Estate of Lancaster Thomas. Collection of minerals and crystal models. 



Mrs. William S. Yarxali.. Collection of minerals. 



William S. VAtrx Collection. Twenty specimens purchased. 



Ethnology and Archeology. 



Charles M. Burns. Two specimen of Cingalese Script. 



Arthur W. Clime. Thirty-seven specimens of modern work in stone, in- 

 cluding an engraved sandstone gorget, small "celts" of chest, spear and arrow- 

 heads of quartz, flint, jasper, chest and glass flaked with stone and bone tools. 



William Imes. Several arrowheads, Juniata County, Pa. 



Dr. Fernando Salagaren (through H. X. Wardle). Two ceremonial 

 coppers. Oaxaca, Mex. 



Mrs. M. T. S. Schaeffer. Embroidered bag and wood carving made by Ainu 

 of Japan. 



Dr. Raymond Spear, V . S. X. Collection of Samoan implements, tapa 

 clothes, etc. 



H. Newell Wardle. Basket made by Thicket Indians, Sitka, Alaska. 

 Thirty-six ancient potsherds, rain coat, ten obsidian and terra cotta objects, 

 Mexico. 



Plants. 



Charles C. Bachmax. Three specimens. 

 Edwin B. Bartram. Forty-five specimens. 

 G. William Bassett. Two specimens. 

 0. H. Brown. One specimen. 



Stewardson Brown. Two hundred and ninety local and eight hundred and 

 fifty Jamaica plants. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 697 



Jokl J. Carter. Nineteen specimens. 



Mrs. H. C. Chapman. Collection of Bar Harbor plants. 



Joseph Crawford. Eight hundred Jamaica and Panama plants. 



Dr. John W. Eckfeldt. Four specimens. 



William Findlay. Four specimens. 



Dr. C. D. Fretz. Fifty specimens of Crataegus. 



J. H. Grove. Fifty specimens. 



R. Heher Howe, Jr. Three Lichens in exchange. 



Dr. Ida A. Keller. Forty-five specimens. 



Dr. A. F. K. Krout. One specimen. 



Henry A. Lang. Eight specimens. 



Frank Leaming. Cedar log, Cape May Court House, N. J. 



Bayard Long. Eighteen hundred and ninety-nine specimens. 



New York Botanical Garden. Thirty-eight Jamaica and eighty-two 

 Cuban plants, in exchange. 



Francis W. Pennell. Five specimens. 



Harold W. Pretz. One hundred and fifty-three specimens. 



Benjamin H. Smith. Sixty-eight specimens. 



Witmer Stone. Eight hundred and ninety-three specimens. 



E. G. Vanatta. Fourteen specimens. 



Samuel S. Van Pelt. Forty-one specimens. 



Westtown School. Two specimens. 



Charles S. Williamson. Seventy-six specimens. 



Capt. J. H. Workman. Specimen of Tuckahoe (Pachyma cocos). 



Academy's Expedition to Arizona and New Mexico (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry). 

 Seven hundred and eighty-three specimens. 



Botanical Section, Purchased. Seven hundred and forty specimens of 

 Nevada and California plants. 



George Welder. Twelve slabs of fossil plants, Bucks County, Pa. 




698 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND RE- 

 FERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1910. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abramis chrysoleucas 6( 10-602 



Acantharchus pomotis 602 



Acanthodes affinis 663 



concinnus 663 



pristis 663 



semistria t us 663 



Acanthorhodeus dicaeus 183 



Acer ruhrum 545, 546, 567 



Acerates viridiflora 547, 571 



Achatinidse 502, 510, 518 



Acheilognathus 479 



brevianalis 479. 479 



cyanostigma 481 



liimantegus 481 



imberbis 476, 481 



lanceolatus 478 



limbatus 478 



longipinnis 481 



mesembrinum 481 



Achirus fasciatus 601 



Acipenser brevirostrum 604 



nacari 60S 



neccarii 603 



sturio 599, 603 



Acipenserida 1 603 



Acrididse 6, 12, 587, 621 



Acridium tuberculatum 630 



Acroantbes imifolia 580 



Acronycta 315, 321 



oblinita 314 



sp 314 



Acrydium arenosum 587 



hancocki 622 



obscurum 622 



ornatum 622 



Adamsiella ignilabris 523 



variabilis 523 



Aetobatus narinari 475 



Agriolimax 52 



agrestis 520 



hemphilli ashmuni 52, 130 



lsevis 665, 668 



sp 520 



Agrostis hyemalis 554 



perennans 546 554 



Albacorus thynnus _ 601 



Albinula 136 



Albula 652, 654 



vulpes 600, 652 



Albulidse 652 



Alburnellus altipinnis >Sn. 2s 7 



jaculus 290 



micropteryx 291 



Alburnops blennius 275 



illecebrosus 276 



plumbeolus 283, 284 



shumardi 276, 277 



Alburnus aurabilis 288 



megalops 288 



oligaspis 290 



percobromus 290 



rubrifrons 290 



sociua 289 



Alcadia albolabris 524 



hollandi 524 



major 524 



paliiata 524 



pusilla 524 



Aletris farinosa 548, 559 



Alexia m. bermudensis 667 



Alligator 164-467 



Alnua rugosa 561 



Alopias vulpes 599 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia 637 



rotundifolia 616, 637 



uhleri 595, 617, 637 



Amblvtropidia occiden talis, 5X7,617, 627 



Ambrosia artemisisefolia 574 



Ameiurus na talis prost 1 list ius 600 



nebulosus 602 



Amelanchier canadensis 580 



Amiatidse 611 



Amiatus calvus 611 



Ammoniceras guildingi 503 



Anasa 315, 316 



tristis 300 



Anaxipha exigua 649, 650 



Ancylus (Ferrissia) bermudensis... 670 



havanensis 671 



irroratus 670 



radiatus 670 



textilis 670 






1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



699 



Andropogon i'urcatus 546, 551 



scoparius 545, 550 



virginicus 578 



-Angelica villosa 546, 548, 569 



Anguilla chrisypa 600 



Anisolabis annulipes 4 



maritima 4, 485 



Anisomorpha buprestoides 6 



Ankylostoma duodenale 271 



Annularia fimbriatiila 523 



Anoma alboanfractus paivana 519 



splendens 519 



s. citrina 519 



Antenna ria neglecta 546, 577 



neodioica 548, 577 



plantaginif olia 546, 577 



Anthoxanthum odoratum 583 



Antinoe anoculata 358 



macrolepida 358 



Aperostoma 533, 533 



crassum 510 



giganteum 502 



jamaicense 534 



(Ptychocochlis) jamaicense 521 



(Ptychocochlis) lacteofluviale. 534 



notatum 534, 535 



rupisi'ontis 510 



subrugosum 510 



(Ptychocochlis) tryonianum.... 534 



(Ptychocochlis) varians 521 



Aphredoderus sayanus 601 



Aphroditida? 371 



Aphrodita (Lsetmonice) aphrodi- 



tioides 375 



armifera 371, 378 



castanea 376, 380, 385 



echidna 375 



hamata 379 



intermedea 385 



japonica 371, 375, 380, 382 



negligens 385 



parva 371, 385 



refulgida 376, 382 



Apocynum milleri 582 



Apomatus 492, 493 



Apophyllite 538 



Arabis lyrata 545, 546, 563 



Area chemnitzii 488 



sp 489 



staminea 488 



websteri 488 



Arctia fuliginosa 296 



Arenaria serpvllit'olia 584 



stricta 545, 547, 549, 563 



Aristida dichotoma 545, 553 



gracilis 545, 548, 554 



oligantha 548, 553 



purpurascens 545, 554 



Aronia nigra 564 



Arphia granulata 588 



sulphurea 588, 616, 629. 630 



xanthoptera 588, 617, 629 



Ashmunella, 49, 51, 53, 54, 82, 91, 95, 96 



angulata, 53, 81, 85, 97, 98, 108,110 



chiracahuana, 53, 81, 85, 87-91, 



96, 97, 109, 110, 112, 113, 115 



c. varicifera 112 



duplicidens, 53, 96-98, 100, 102, 



105, 106, 108, 110 



esuritor 53, 96, 97, 112-115 



ferrissi 53, 96-98, 109, 110 



fissidens, 53, 81, 97-103, 105, 106, 



108 

 f. albicauda, 97-99, 101, 103, 105 



f. pomerovi 98, 105 



lepiderma, 49, 76, 77, 96-98, 100, 



105, 127 



levettei 96, 100, 112 



1. angigyra 100 



1. proxima 100 



metamorphosa, 53, 96, 113, 114,115 

 proxima, 53, 96-100, 102, 105, 108- 



110 

 p. emigrans, 97-99, 101, 102, 105 



varicifera 96, 110, 112 



Ascida mentula 43 



Asclepias purpurascens 571 



syriaca 582 



verticillata, 545, 546, 548, 549, 571 



Ascyrum hypericoides 547, 568 



Asplenium i elix-f cemina 578 



platyneuron 546, 550 



Aster cordifolius 583 



dumosus 576 



ericoides 546, 576 



laevis 576 



laterifiorus 546, 577 



parviceps pusillus, 545, 546, 549, 



576 



patens 54S, 576 



puniceus 583 



undulatus 576 



Astroscopus guttatus 602 



Atheropogon curtipenduhis, 547-549, 



555 



Atlanticus dorsalis 596, 644 



pachymerus 61 6, 644 



Atractosteus lucius 611 



Auris distorta bisuturalis 507, 508 



d. panamensis 503, 507 



Automeris io, 295, 299, 311, 312, 318, 



320, 321 



Azalea nudiflora 570 



Balistes carolinensis 602 



Baptisia tinctoria 565 



Barracuda 406 



Basommatophora 144 



Benzoin benzoin 580 



Bifidaria 135, 136, 140, 521 



ashmuni, 52, 136, 137, 139, 141 

 a. minor, 136, 137, 137, 139-141 



bilamellata 136, 137, 143, 144 



cochisensis, 52, 136, 137, 139-143 

 c. oligobasidon 137, 141, 142 




700 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Bifidaria dalliana, 52, 136, 137, 141, 



143, 144 



oligobasodon 136 



pellucida 520 



p.hordeacella, 52, 135,143,665-668 



perversa 52, 136, 137, 143 



pilsbryana 52, 136 



procera 136 



prototypus 136, 137, 142, 143 



quadridentata 52, 135 



rhoadsi 521 



rupicola 665-668 



senilis, 503, 520, 665, 667, 668 



tuba 52, 144 



Blatta borealis 422, 427 



cincta 425 



orientalis 5, 586 



pensylvanica 422 



Blatella gennanica 4, 586 



Blattidae 4, 5X5. 617 



Blauneria heteroclita 667 



Boehmeria cylindrica 580 



Bombyx '. 296, 297, 308 



mori 296, 297 



Bostrichocentrum 117 



Bothriopupa 521 



Brachypodella gracilis 518 



Brachystola 320 



Bulimulidae 503, 518 



Bulimulus alternatus 48 



unicolor 503 



Cacaecia 297 



Caecilioides acicula 665, 666, 667 



Callosamia promethea, 295, 299, 301, 

 302, 304, 306, 308-311, 31S 



Callorynchus 603 



( laracolla hydiana 505 



subplanata 504 



uncigera 506 



Carex bicknellii 547, 549, 557 



glaucodea 545, 548, 557 



hystricina 557 



liirida 557 



retroflexa 557 



scoparia 557 



triceps hirsuta 545, 557 



vulpinoidea 557 



( !a rpinus caroliniana 580 



Carychium bermudensis 666, 668 



Cassia chamaecrista 546-548, 565 



nictitans 565 



Castanea dentata 547, 561 



Castilleia coccinea 54S, 582 



Catostomus commersonii 602 



Ceanothus americana 546, 567 



Cecropia 314 



Celastrus scandens 581 



Cepolis (Dialeuca) eonspersula 514 



(Hemitrochus) graminieola 514 



(Dialeuca) nemoraloides 514 



subconica 510 



Cerastium arvense 563 



a. oblongifolium 563 



a. velutinum 563 



a. villosum 562, 563 



oblongifolium, 545, 549, 562, 563 



Ceratinoptera diaphana 4 



lutea 621 



Cerion incanum maritimum 48 



Chsenaxis 144 



Chabazite 539 



ChamEelerium luteum 558 



Cheiracanthus costellatus 663 



Chelone glabra 582 



Chelonia caja 296 



Chimsera austral is 603 



monstrosa 603 



in. var. australis 60S 



neglecta 603 



aovEe-zealandise 603 



Chimseridse 603 



Chimaphila maculata 581 



umbeUata 581 



Chloealtia conspersa 616, 628 



Chondropoma mord&x 523 



( Jhorisoneura plocea 586 



Chortbippus curtipennis 616, 62S 



Chortophaga 585, 591 



australior 589, 591 



cubensis 589 



meridionalis 5X9 



viridifasciata. 588, 589, 591, 616, 



(529, 630 



Cunila origan oides 582 



Circotettix caroliuiauus 16 



Cirsium discolor 578 



muticum 546, 578 



pumilitm 5X3 



Climatius latispinosua 663 



Clinocephalus elegans 617, 623, 628 



e. pulcher 588, 628 



Cliola montiregis 279, 280 



Closterium sp 460 



Coccosteus 658, 659, 662 



decipiens 658, 661, 662 



Cochlicopa lubrica 51, 135 



Colobostylus banksianus 510, 523 



jayanus 522 



j. runlabris 522 



tectilabris 510 



Comandra umbellata 545, 548, 562 



Comptonia asplenifolia 560 



Conocephalus brevipennis 643 



dissimilis 7 



ensiferus 643 



fasciatus 7, 596, 640, 643 



nemoralis 616, 644 



saltans 644 



strictus 616, 643 



Conozoa wallula 13 



Conulus 131 



fulvus alaskensis 181, 132 



vaccus ' 520 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



701 



Copper 455 



Cordillacris affinis 12 



occipitalis 12 



Coregonus 40G 



Cornus alternifolia 5S1 



Corylus americana 546, 561 



Coryphaena equiselis 601 



1 dppurus 60 1 



Crataegus 150-253 



accincta 151, 154 



advena 165, 175 



agaia 247, 252 



alacris 188 



aliena 151, 157 



alpista 230, 238 



ambigens 189, 191 



ampliata 189, 195 



amplifica 165, 172 



angulata 164, 166 



angustisepala 208, 209 



antheina 209, 213 



apposita 229, 235 



arcana 164, 169, 180 



bedf ordensia 165, 185 



bellatula 164, 171 



blairensis 189, 193 



brownii 222, 226 



burkeana 218, 218 



callista 230, 237 



calnes cens 1 58 , 1 59 



chapmani var. plukenetii 21ft 



circur 235 



coccinea 222 



c. var. rotimdifolia 222 



coerulea 190, 207 



cognata 185 



compta 188 



confusa 229, 235 



conjuncta 166, 186 



contortula 229, 236 



crawfordiana 164, 169 



cristata 218, 220 



crocata 15.9 



crus-galli 151, 152, 153 



cydonia 15.9 



dacrioidea 222, 224 



delectata 189, 200 



denudata 165, 173 



diaphora 247, 251 



diffusa 188 



dissona 188, 189, 195 



divisifolia 165, 179 



dodgei 222, 223 



dunmorensis 165, 174 



duracina 166, 186 



eburnea 151, 156 



edurescens 165, 180 



effera 190, 206 



ellwangeriana 217 



errata 244, 245 



erubescens 165, 178 



felix 191 



Crataegus flammata 209, 211 



fortunata 230, 239 



fructuosa 229, 232 



gaudens 164, 170 



glandulosa 222 



glaucophylla 209, 211 



gratiosa 230, 243 



grossa 222, 223 



heidelbergensis 209, 215 



holmesiana 218, 221 



horrida 222 



ignava 222, 228 



impervia 189, 197 



incompta 165, 183 



infensa 189, 201 



insolita 211 



intricata 229, 235 



jenningsii 230, 241 



kinzera? 229, 234 



ltetans 190, 205 



ketifica 247, 250 



hetula 229, 233 



latifrons 165, 181 



lecta 166, 186 



leimonia 189, 194 



leiophvlla 165, 175 



leptalea 229, 231 



luteola 230,240 



luxuriosa 189, 198 



maineana 188 



margaretta 226 



medioxima 189, 190 



moselemensis 158 



m. corrugata 158 



olivacea 151, 153 



opulens 188 



pedicellata 218, 219 



pennsylvanica 216 



phlebodia 151, 155 



pinna tifida 180 



porrecta 158, 162 



prsestens 158, 162 



propensa 209, 214 



propixa 247, 248 



punctata 158, 162 



p. mutabilis 158 



p. var. aurea 159 



p. var. canescens 159 



p. var. mierophvlla 159 



puta 189, 192 



putata 244, 244 



pvramidata 189, 196 



radina 189, 203 



recedens 158, 161 



recordabilis 189, 199 



relicta 165, 177 



repentina 222, 226 



rotundifolia 222 



r. var. bicknellii 222 



nifipes 209, 213 



ruricola 190, 206 



scabra 230, 242 




702 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Crataegus scopulorum 222, 227 



sejuncta 218, 219 



shaferi 165, 184, 185 



siderea 209, 212 



stolonit'era 189, 191 



structilis 246, 247 



succulenta 247, 249 



tenella 208, 209 



temiphylla 247, 247 



tomentosa 246 



torta 165, 176 



trahax 151-153 



tribulosa 165, 182 



triosteum 158 



twiningii 229, 230 



vaga 247, 249 



varians 222, 225 



vegrandis 189, 202 



viatica 164, 167 



vittata 188 



wilmorensis 164, 168 



Crepidula 308 



Crocidopoma 533, 533 



floccosum 533 



suturale 538 



Crotalaria sagittalLs 565 



Crotalus lepidus 82 



prieei 82, 91 



Crucigera websteri 500 



Cryptocercua punctulatus, 586, 616, 621 



Cycas 317 



Cyclophoridsp 521, 533 



Cyclophorus blanchetianus 533 



dysoni 533 



Cyclostoma jamaicensis 534 



Cyclostomatidae 522 



(Ylindrogryllus sp 10 



Cvlindrosteus 604 



agassizii 605, 609 



bartonii 609 



castelnaudii 605, 609 



grayi 611 



megalops 605, 609, 611 



platostomus 605, 606, 60S, 611 



productus 605, 609 



rafinesquii 606 



scabriceps 605, 607 



tristsechus 605, 611 



tropicus 605, 611 



zadockii 611 



Cymospira? polycera 500 



Cyperus aristatus 546, 547, 555 



diandrus 579 



filiculmis macilentus 545, 556 



strigosus 555 



Cvprinella beck withi 280 



billingsiana 27.9, 280 



ludibunda 280 



sauvis 279, 280 



texana 281 



umbrosa 280 



venusta 281 



Cyprinodon variegatus 



Cyrtoxipha Columbiana 



Danais archippus 295, 299, 317, 



Danthonia spicata 545, 



Dasyatidap 



Dasyatis akajei 



aldrovandi 



centroura 



pastinaca 



sabina 



say 



uarnak. 



.473, 



ujo 



viola ceus 



Dasystoma flava 546, 



pedicularia 



Dendrocochlis 



Dennstaedtia puncticuloba 



Dermaptera 



Deschampsia caespitosa, 546, 547, 



Detracia bulloides 



Diapheromeia femora ta 



Diatomaceae 



Dichromorplia viridis 588, 



Dictyophorus guttatua 



Dinichthys 659, 661, 



halmodeus 658, 



intermedins 661, 



Diospyros virginiana 



Diplacanthus horridus 



striatus 



Discobatidse 



Discobatis 



marginipinnis 



Discotrygon 



Dissosteira Carolina 6, 592, 



Dixonina 



nemoptera 651, 



Dolium 



Drymaeus alternans 



bugabensis 



immaculatus 



josephus 



panamensis 



semima cubitus 



Dryopteris marginalis 



noveboracensis 



Dulichium arundinaceum 



Echeneis naucrates 



Ectobia borealis 



flavocincta 422, 423, 425, 



lithophila 



Eleocharis palustris glaucescens 



tenuis 



Ellipes minuta 



Encoptolophus 



cos talis 



Endodontidac 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 



obesus 



Eotettix pusillus 



600 

 598 

 321 

 555 

 473 

 473 

 473 

 473 

 474 

 474 

 599 

 473 

 474 

 474 

 582 

 572 

 515 

 550 

 5S5 

 549. 

 555 

 .667 

 587 

 271 

 62S 

 594 

 662 

 659 

 662 

 571 

 663 

 663 

 46S 

 468 

 46S 

 468 

 031 

 651 

 652 

 496 

 502 

 502 

 51S 

 503 

 502 

 503 

 57S 

 578 

 579 

 601 

 423 

 427 

 437 

 579 

 556 

 644 

 591 

 589 

 133 

 602 

 601 

 594 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



703 



Epiga^a repens 582 



Eragrostis pectinacea 545, 555 



pilosa 583 



Ereehtites lueracit'olia 583 



Ericia elegans o-L* 



Ericiidae 522 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus 002 



Eritettix naviculus 626 



simplex 616, 625. 630 



tricarinatus 626 



virgatus 626 



Erustia.. 520 



ernsti 520 



Esox americanus 602 



reticulatus 602 



viridis 606 



Eucarphus 498 



benzoni 496 



dirampha 495 



lunulifera 495 



serratus 495 



Euconulus 131 



chersinus. 131, 133 



fulvus 131-133 



f. alaskensis 51, 131, 133 



polygyra tus 133 



Eudistemma 117 



Euglandina cumingi 503 



sowerbyana 502 



striata 503 



Eulamia obscura 599 



Eulota similaris 664-666, 668 



Eunarce 472 



Eunoe 361 



barbata 334 



ca?ca 338, 353 



truncata 336 



Eunotia 460 



Eupatorium aromaticum 574 



perf oliatum 546, 574 



pubescens 547, 574 



Euphorbia corollata 581 



maculata 581 



nutans 581 



Eupomatus 495, 496, 498 



dianthus 498 



elegantulus 497 



floridanus 498 



gibbosus 601, 602 



sanctse-crucis 498 



uncinatus 498 



EutEenia brachystoma 149 



Euthamia nuttallii 575 



Eutrochatella 525 



pulchella 524, 525 



Euvanessa 297 



Evarne forcipata 358 



impar 353 



sexdentata 357 



Exocoetus volitans 601 



Falcata comosa 580 



Felichthys marinus 600 



Ferussacidse 135 



Festuca octoflora 58 1 



Filigrana huxlevi 492 



Finibristylis laxa 546, 548, 549, 556 



Fistularia tabaoaria 601 



Fundulus heteroclitus maerolepi- 



dotus 600 



lucise 600 



majalis 601 



Galium asprellum 582 



boreale 547, 549, 573 



pilosum 573 



triflorum 582 



Gambusia gracilis 600 



Garnet 539 



Gattyana 343 



senta 361 



Gaylussacia baccata 546, 570 



Gasterosteus aculeatus 600 



Gentiana crinita 548, 571 



Geomelania elegans 521 



fortis '.... 510 



gracilis 521 



(Scalatella) microglypta....521, 532 



minor 521 



(Scalatella) pygmsea 521, 532 



Gerardia pupurea 572 



p. parvula 546, 548, 549, 572 



tenuifolia 546, 573 



Ginkgo 317 



Gnaphalium polycephalum 577 



Gomphocerus 630 



carinatus 626 



simplex 626 



Gomphonema 460 



Gryllidie '. 8, 590, 644 



Grvllotalpa 304 



Gryllus 648 



abbreviatus 10, 648 



americanus 648 



assimilis 10 



bermudensis 8, 10 



l'asciatus 649 



firmus 597 



luctuosus 10 



neglectus 616, 647 



pennsvlvanicus 647, 6 18 



rubens 597, 648 



tuberculatus 630 



Guppya 520 



browni 503, 509 



gundlachi 503, 520 



selekai 509 



Gyrostachys gracilis 560 



Habroconus 520' 



Halosydna insignis 329, 331 



brevisetosa 330 



californica 329, 331 



interrupta 331 



parva 330 



patagonica 330 



pulclira 32S- 




704 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Hapata 525 



Hapithus agitator 650 



quadratus 650 



Harmothoe 328, 332 



caeca 353 



crassicirrata 350 



(Evarne) forcipata 358 



(Evarne) f'ragilis 353 



haliaeta 343, 350 



hirsuta 338, 350 



imbricata 346, 350 



(Lagisca) lamellifera 341 



(Lagisca) multisetosa 340 



scriptoria 344 



sp 350 



tenebricosa 351 



triannulata 34(5 



(Lagisca) yokohamiensis 343 



Helianthemum majus 545, 568 



Helianthus divaricatus 577 



giganteus 546, .177 



Helicella vent ric( >sa 665-668 



Helicidae 53, 502, 514 



Helicina amoena 502 



convexa 665-668 



funcki 503 



jamaicensis 510, 523 



lirata 503 



neritella 523 



regiiia 525 



Helicinidse 503, 523, 524 



Helicodiscus eigenmanni arizo- 



nensis 52, 133 



Heliopsis helianthoides 047. 577 



Helix 31(1. :>16 



a bn o r n lis 515 



aonulifera 504 



cheilodon 664 



delitescens 664 



epistylium 528 



e. delaminata 528-530 



e. var. minor 528 



erecta 505 



hornii 115 



hortensis 665 



infortunata 516 



ingersolli 115 



labyrinthus 504 



1. var. sipunculata 504 



microdonta 664 



osculum var. delaminata 530 



otis 504 



pisana 665 



plana 664, 664 



plicata 505 



ringens 664 



selenkai 520 



tumida 516 



imcigera 506, 507 



Helodrilus (Dendrobrena) rubidus.. 18 

 (Dendrobajna) r. var. sub- 

 rubicunda 18 



Hemigrammoc vpris 483 



rasborella 483, 484 



Hemitrygon 474 



Henlea dicksoni 19 



dorsalis 20 



lefroyi 20 



pratorum 20 



rhsetica 20 



rosai 20 



scharffi 18-20 



stoUi 20 



sulcata 20 



Hennione 371 



Hieracium gronovii 574 



venosum 546, 573 



Hippiscus apiculatus 630 



neglectus 12 



phcenicopterus 592, 630 



rugosus 592, 617, 630 



tuberculatum 630 



validus 12, 13 



Hippocampus hudsonius 601 



Holospira. 4s -51,53, 86,91,117-119,127 



arizonensis 46, lis, 119 



a. emigrans 119 



chiricahuana lis, 127, 120 



c. gracilis 130 



c. optima 129, 130 



c. ternaria 128 



cionella 122-124 



c. capillacea 127 



C. intermedia 123, 126, 127 



Homalocenchrus oryzoides 553 



virginieus 510. 553 



Houstonia caerulea 546, 573 



Hyalinia 131 



I [yalopomatus langerhansi 500 



Hyalotheca sp 460 



Hybopsis amarus 279 



chiliticus 286 



chlorocephalus 286 



chrosomus 287 



fretensis 274 



lacertosus 285 



longiceps 275 



missuriensis 274 



niveus 282 



phaenna 278 



rubricroceus 286 



spectrun cuius 275 



xaenocephalus 287, 288 



Hybognathus procne 275 



stramineus 274 



Hydra 42 



Hydroides 495, 497, 498 



bispinosa 496 



multispinosa 496 



parvus 496 



Hydrolagus colliei 603 



Hypericum punctatum 545, 568 



Hyponomenta cognatella 297 



Hypoxis hirsuta '579 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



705 



Hypsilepis ardens 292 



coccogenis 285 



cornutus cerasinus 284 



c. cyaneus 284, 285 



c. frontalis 284 



dipkemia 292 



frontalis 284 



galacturus 288 



Idiostatus variegata 17 



linmersidens 135, 136 



Impatiens biflora 581 



Ischnoptera 409, 615, 616 



americana, 409, 410, 412, 420, 449 



bolliana, 410, 412, 447, 449, 450, 



451, 586, 616, 620 



borealis, 410, 412, 413, 436, 444. 



586, 616, 620 



consobrina 4&0, 451 



couloniana, 409, 411, 413, 427, 



430, 433. 435, 616, 618, 619 



deropeltiformis, 409, 410, 412, 414, 



416, 418, 449, 667 



deserts? 413, 449 



divisa, 409, 411, 413, 430, 618, 620 



hyalina 433, 435, 619 



inaequalis 425, 427, 428, 433 



insolita 410, 412, 413, 450 



johnsoni, 409, 410, 412, 417, 418, 



449, 618 



lata 433 



major 43% 



marginata 429 



nortoniana 4%% 



nigricollis....409, 410, 412, 416, 417 



notha 409, 411, 413, 442 



occidentals 410, 411, 413, 451 



pensylvanica, 409, 411, 413, 422, 

 423, 425, 427-429, 431, 432, 



616, 618 



p. inaequalis, 409, 411, 413, 425, 



426, 427, 435 



translucida 4%% 



uhleriana, 409, 411, 413, 436, 437, 



439, 440, 442, 444, 446, 450, 



616, 619, 620 



u. Mvescens, 409, 411, 413, 439, 



441, 585, 820 



unicolor 436, 487, 439, 440 



Juncoides campestre 558 



Juncus acuminatus 558 



aristulatus 548, 558 



effusus 558 



mai'ginatus 558 



secundus 545, 548, 558 



tenuis 558 



Juniperus virginiana 546, 550 



Kakerlac schaefferi 447, 449, 620 



Kaliella 131, 664 



turbinata 666, 667 



Kalmia latifolia : 581 



Ivneiffia fruticosa 569 



linearis 569 



Kocllia flexuosa 546, 572 



Labia burgessii 585 



minor 585 



Labidura bidens 4 



riparia 4 



Labiduridtu 4 



Labiidae 585 



Lacinaria spicata 548, 575 



Laetuca spicata 583 



Laetmonice 371 



pellucida 386 



producta wyvillei 371, 386 



Lagisca elizabethi 350 



crosetensis 341 



multisetosa 340, 341 



m. papillata 341, 342 



yokohamiensis 343 



Lampugus punctulatus 601 



Laphria 296 



Laumontite 53S 



Leanira 391 



alba 387 



areolata 391 



Lechea leggettii 568 



minor 568 



racemulosa 568 



Lepidasthenia gigas 330 



Lepidonotus carinulatus 334 



clavis 330 



ca?loris 333, 334 



grubei 330 



insignis 330 



sp 334 



sublevis 330 



Lepidosteus ayresii 605 



(Atractosteus) berlandieri 611 



copei 605 



crassus 606 



elisabeth 605 



grayi 610 



harlani 605 



horatii 605 



lamarii 605 



latirostris 609 



leptorhynchus 606 



lesuerii 605 



louisianensis 606 



manjuari 611 



milberti 606 



otarius 605 



piquotianus 605 



semiradiatus 605 



smithii 605 



thompsoni 606 



troostii 605 



Lepisosteidir 604 



Lepisosteus 604 



albus 611 



bison 605 



clintonii 604, 606 



ferox 611 



gavial 606 




706 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Lepisosteus huronensis 604-606 



lineatus 605 



longirostris 605 



oculatus 606 



osseus 604, 606 



platyrhynchus 606 



spatula 611 



treculii 604, 606 



Lepomis auritus 602 



Leptandra virginica 582 



Leptinaria filocostata 502 



interstriata 502 



lamellata 518 



1. concentrica 502 



mexicana 508 



panamensis 502, 508 



robertsi 518 



striosa abdita 518 



Leptocephalus conger 600 



Leptorchis loeselii 560 



Leptysma marginicollis, 594, 616, 632 



Lespedeza capitata 548, 566 



frutescens 566 



liirta 566 



prociunbens 566 



repens 566 



virginica 548, 566 



Leuciscus frontalis 2S4 



gracilis 284 



Leuconia occidentalis 667 



Leucochroa 18 



Leucophsea maderse 5 



Liguus 50 



Lilium philadelphicum, 547, 549, 559 



Limackkc 130, 520 



Linum floridanum 567 



medium 567 



virginian i mi 546, 566 



Liphoplus krugii 10 



Liriodendron tulipifera 547 



Litaneutria minor 12 



Lithobius 316 



Livona pica 496 



Lobelia spicata 546, 573 



Loboptera 407, 40S 



americana 420 



Lobotes surinamensis 602 



Locusta agilis 640 



apiculata 630 



tuberculata 630 



Lonicera sempervirens 548, 573 



Lucania parva 600 



Lucidella adamsiana 525 



aureola 525 



lineata 525 



undulata 525 



Luxilus lucidus 291, 292 



selene 278 



Lymnaea 42, 53 



cockerelli 144 



Lysimachia quadrifolia 571 



Maeha?racanthus 656-658 



Macha?racanthus bohemicus 658 



longsevus 657, 658 



major 657, 65S 



peracutus 657, 658 



sulcatus 657, 658 



Macrognathus loricatus 606 



Macropetalichthys 656 



Manta birostris 475 



Mantidae 6, 12, 586, 621 



Marinula pepita 148 



rhoadsi 148 



Medioximse 188 



Meibomia dillenii 565 



marylandica 565 



obtusa 566 



paniculata 565 



rigida 548, 565 



Melampus eoffea 667 



flavus 667 



Mclaniella fimbriata 502 



Melanoplus amplectens 616, 634 



atlanis 633 



caroegiei 615, 633 



deceptua 633 



decorus 617, 623, 634 



devius 616, 633 



divergens 616, 634 



femora tns 635 



femur rubrum 635 



keeleri 617, 635 



luridus 616, 635 



propin(|iuis 595, 635 



scudderi 633 



Melosira 460 



Membranopsis 4t>2 



inconspicua 492 



Menidia bervllina cerea 600 



menidia notata nnl 



Menticirrhus saxatilis 601 



Mermiria alacris 617, 625 



Mesogonistius chaetodon 602 



Mespflus glandulosa 222 



Microcentrum retinerve, 595, 616, 637 



rhombifolium 595, 616, 637 



Microceranius gossei 519 



Microphysa ingersolli 115 



i. convexior 117 



Micropterus dolomieu 602 



Milax gagates 665-667 



sowerbyi 665, 668 



Miogrvllus saussurei 597 



Mitchella repens 573 



Mobulidoe 475 



Modiolaria marmorata 42, 43 



Moniana aurata 280 



conchi 279, 280 



deliciosa 27 '4 



formosa 279 



frigida 279 



gracilis •. 279, 280 



jugalis 279, 280 



kctabilis 279, 280 




1910.) 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



707 



Moniana proserpina 280 



pulchella 279, 280 



rutila 279, 280 



Mugil curema 601 



Muhlenbergia foliosa 554 



sylvatica 554 



Myliobatidse 475 



Myliobatis aquila. 475 



bovina 475 



calil'ornicus 475 



freminvillii 475 



noctula A75 



Mytilus 42 



Myxine 316 



Myxomycetes 271 



Nabalus albus. 583 



serpen tarius 546, 574 



Narcine brasiliensis 473 



Narcobatidse 472 



Narcobatus 472 



narke 472 



nobiliana 472 



occiden talis 472 



torpedo 472 



Natica rugosa 488 



Navicula major 460 



socialis 4(51, 463 



viridis 460-462 



v. var. commutata 461 



v. var. i'allax 461 



Nemidia microlepida 328, 302 



Nemobius 585, 649 



ambitiosus 596 



aterrimus 596 



canus 646 



carolinus 597, 647 



cubensis 596 



fascia tus 645-647 



f. socius 596, 646, 647 



maculatus 596, 647 



palustris 597 



p. aurantius 597 



socius 645, 646 



Xeocyclotus 533, 533 



jamaicensis 533 



Xeoconocephalus fusco-striatus 7 



maxillosus 7 



mexicanus 638 



palustris 638 



retusus 596, 639 



r. atlanticus 638, 639 



triops 7 



Xeotettix bolivari 623 



femoratus 587, 617. 622 



rotundif rons 623 



Nephthys 388 



Nezara.'. 297, 305 



Noctiluca 317 



Nomotettix cristatus 616, 623 



Notropis altipinnis 286 



amabilis 288 



ariommus 288 



Notropis atberinoides 290 



aztecus 273 



bifrenatus 273 



blennius 275 



boops 277 



bubalinus 280 



caeruleus 282 



callistius 281 



cayuga 274 



c. atrocaudalis 274 



chalybaeus 287, 602 



c. abbotti 287 



chiliticus 286 



chloroceplialus 286 



chrosomus 287 



coccogenis 285 



cornutus 278, 283, 284 



c. cerasinus 284 



c. cyaneus 284 



deliciosus 274 



dilectus 290 



fonnosus 279 



fretensis 274 



frigidus 279 



galaeturus 283 



gilberti 276 



hudsonius 277, 278 



h. amarus 278, 279 



h. saludanus 278, 279 



h. selene 277, 278 



illecebrosus 276 



lacertosus 285 



lirus 291, 291 



luciodus 288 



ludibundus 280 



lutrensis 279 



microptervx 291 



niveus 282 



notemigonoides 289 



mix 276 



photogenis 291 



p. amoenus 291 



procne 275 



p. longiceps 275 



proserpina 280 



pyrrhomelas 283 



roseus 287 



rubricroceus 286 



rubrif'rons 290 



scabriceps 288 



socius 289 



spectrunculus 275 



stigma turns 281 



stilbius 289 



swaini 288 



telescopus 289 



texanus 281 



umbratilis 291 



u. ardens 292 



u. lythrurus 292 



venustus 281 



volucellus 274 




708 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



Notropis wliipplii 282 



w. analostanus 282 



xaenocephalus 287 



zonatus 285 



Nyssa sylvatica 547, 569 



Obeliscus swiftianus 665 



Odontoxiphidium apteruin 617, 644 



CEcanthus angustipennis 597, 649 



latipennis 649 



nigricornis 649 



quadripunctatus 598, 649 



Oleacinidae 503, 510, 519 



Omp] lalina 85 



Opeas beckianum 502 



goodalli 503 



gracile 666, 667 



micra 518, 666, 667 



panamense 503 



pumiluni 503 



Opsanus tau 601 



( Ipsariichthys -Is I 



< hrchelimum agile 616, 640 



erythocepnalum 640 



glaberrimum 595, 617, 639-641 



gracile 640 



inilitare 51)5. (139 



minor 616, 641 



molossum 616, 641 



nigripes 642 



nitidum 641 



pulchellum 616, 642 



spinulosum 642 



VolailtUlll ~)'.)r> 



vulgare 7, 640 



Oreohelix..51, 53, 54, 77. 80, 87, 88, 91 

 barbata, 48, 19, 54, 77, 78, 83, 85, 



91, 94 



1). minima 92, 94 



chiracahuana, 47, 48, 50, 82, 85, 



86, 127 



c. obsolete 86, 88, 90 



c. percarinata 86, 87, 88 



clappi 48, 53, 54, 77-85, 91 



c. cataracte 7'.). S4, 85 



c. emigrans, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 84 



obsoleta 50 



percarinata 50 



s t rigosa 5 1 , 78 



p. huachucana 48 



Orphulella speeiosa 6 



olivacea 6, 587 



pelida 627 



pelidna 6, 5S7, 617 



pratorum 627 



speeiosa 627 



Orthopristis chrysopteris 601 



Orthoptera 585 



Osmunda spectabilis 547, 549 



Oxalis strieta 580 



violacea 580 



Oxystyla prmceps 503 



undata 518 



Paludestrina attenuate 671 



bermudensis 671, 671 



niekliniana 671 



tenuipes 671 



Panicularia nervata 579 



Panieum 541 



addisonii 548, 579 



anceps 552 



annulum 545, 549, 552 



barbulatum 552 



boseii 546, 553 



capillare 578 



clandest in urn 553 



commonsianum 548, 579 



depauperatum 548, 552 



dichotomi-florum 551 



dichotomum 546, 552 



gattingeri 578 



huachucse silvicola 545, 552 



lindheimeri 579 



linearilolium 552 



microcarpon 579 



philadelphicum 545, 548, 551 



scribnerianum -...545. 548, 552 



sphaerocarpon 545, -Vis. 553 



tennesseense 57! I 



virgatum 579 



Papilio cre3phontes...295, 299, 317, 321 



rutulus 297 



Paracheilognathus imberbis.. 483 



peihoensis 481, 183 



rhombeus 483 



Paralichthys dentetus 601 



Paralepis 406 



barraeudina 403, 106 



boreal is 406 



coregonoides 405, 406 



speciosus 106 



Parascaphyrhynchiis albus 604 



Paratettix cucullatus 621 



c. texanus 622 



texanus 622 



Paravermilia amblia 500 



annulate 500 



bermudensis 500 



ehlersiana 500 



intermedia 500 



Paroxya atlantica 595, 617, 636 



bermudensis 7 



floridana 595, 636 



scudderi 636 



Parsonsia petiolate 581 



Partula 50 



Paspalum circulare 578 



pubescens 545, 551 



Patula homi 11~> 



Paxilla obesa 587, 017. 623, 624 



Pedipes tridens 667 



Peisidiee aspera 387 



Pelecypoda 144 



Peramium pubescens. 579 



Perichaena chrysospora ,272 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



709 



Periplaneta americana 5, 586 



australasia? 5 



brunnea 586 



Phalusia mammilata 43 



Phasmidae 6, 587 



Phegopteris hexagonoptera 546, 578 



Philosamia cynthia, 295, 297, 301, 302, 



318 



Phlox pilosa 548, 582 



subulata 54s. 549, 572 



Photogenis ariommus...: 288 



cseruleus 282 



callistius 281 



leucops 291 



1. engraulinus 291 



luciodus 288 



pyrrhomelas 283 



sea briceps 288 



spilopt en is 282 



stigmat urus. 2 81 



telescopus 289 



Phyllodromia borealis 422, 423 



Phyllodrominae 408 



Phylloscyrtus pulchellus....598, (110.649 



Physa 42, 53 



caliban CCS 



cubensis 668 



pomilia 668 



virgata 144 



Physarum pulcherrimum 272 



Pie'ris mariana 547, 548, 570 



Pinus rigida 545, 547, 548, 550 



virginiana 548, 553 



Pisidium abditum 672 



a. huaclmcanum 52, 144 



novaboracensis 672 



volutabundum (571 



Placostegus 495 



?assimilis 494 



incomptus 495 



tridentatus 495 



Placuanimia rudis 496 



Plagostegopsis 495 



Planorbis alabamensis 669, 670 



a. avus 669 



dilatatus 669, 670 



exacutus 670 



imus 669 



rubellus 669, 670 



uliginosus 668 



Plargyrus bowmani 283, 284 



Platamodes pennsvlv; nica, £22, 423, 



425, 427 



unicolor 436 



Platyrhina triseriata 469, 470 



Platvrhinoidis triseriatus ..469, 470 



Platystoma 533 



Plecotrema cubensis 667 



Plectocyclotus 533, 533 



Pleurodonte acuta 515 



a. acuta 515 



a. goniasmos 514 



Pleurodonte acutissime 515 



anomala 515 



(Dendrocochlis) aspera 515 



bainbridgei 514 



cara 515 



conspurcatella 507 



(Eurycratera) jamaicensis 515 



i j. cornea 510 



lamarckii 515 



nannodonta 514 



nobilis 514 



otis 502, 504 



(Labyrinthus) otis 504, 505 



o. annulii'era 504 



o. erecta 505 



(Labyrinthus) o. orthorhinus, 



502, 505 



o. subplanata 504, 505 



o. sipunculata 504, 505 



pera cut issima 515 



picturata 515 



(Labyrinthus) plicata 505 



p. marmatensis 505 



pretiosa 514 



sinuata 515 



(Labyrinthus) tenaculum 506 



uncigera 502 



(Labyrinthus) uncigera 506 



(Labyrinthus) u. chiriquensis. 50(5 



Poa pratensis 583 



Pcecilozonites bermudensis, 665, 667 r 



oos 



circumfirmatus 665-668 



goodei 665, 666 



reinianus 666 



Polycodium candicans 582 



stamineuin 546, 570 



Polyodontiche 604 



Polygala sanguinea 567 



senega 567 



verticillata 567 



Polygonum arit'olium 580 



sagittatum 580 



scandens 580 



tenue 545, 548, 562 



Polygyra 96 



albolabris 21-40 



a. alleni 21 



a. dentata 21 



a. fusca 21 



a. fuscolabris 21 



a. major 21 



a. maritima, 21, 24, 26, 28, 31, 38 



a. minor 21, 24, 27, 28, 31, 38 



a. traversers, 21, 24, 27, 28, 31 , 3S 



appressa sculptior 665 



chiracahuana 40 



microdonta 664 



plana 664, 666, 667, 668 



Polynoe (?) aciculata 367 



brevisetosa 329 



calif ornica 331 




710 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Polynoe chilensis 330 



enplectellse 340 



(?) filamentosa 366 



(Laenilla) lamellifera 341, 344 



longipedata 368 



(Adametella) longipedata 371 



pulchra 828, 338 



(?)remigata 365-367 



renotubulata 328, 368 



semierma 831, 333 



subfumida 344 



Polynoidte 328 



Polyodon spathula 604 



Polystichum acrostichoides, 546, 550 

 Pomatostegus brachysoma, 490, JOS, 500 



macrasoma 500 



stellata 499 



Pomolobus aestivalis 600 



mediocris 600 



Pomoxis sparoides 602 



Populus grandidentata 560 



Potamides oaobasensis 488 



hillsboroensis 487 



roumaini 487, 488 



suprasulcatus 487 



Potentilla pumila 545, 564 



Prionotus evolans strigatus 601 



Pristidae 469 



Pristis pectinatus 469 



perotteti 469 



Promethea 321 



Proserpina 516 



nitida 525 



Proserpinidii' 516, 525 



Proserpinula 516 



discoidea 516, 526, 527 



infortunata 516 



margaritella 516, 526 



opalina 516 



Protis 492 



simplex 492 



Protula 490, 491, 493, 494 



alba 491 



antennata 492 



dionedse 491. 492 



longiseta 494 



protensis 494 



sp 491 



submedia 491 



sygmobranchus 494 



Prunella vulgaris 572 



Prunus serotina 545 



Psammobatis brevicaudatus 471 



Pseudomopinae 408 



Pseud opleuronectea americanus 602 



Pseud os ubulina problematica 520 



Pseudovermilia occidentalis 500 



1*1 pileum 500 



Psinidia fenestralis 593, 617, 631 



Psoloessa buddiana 627 



f erruginea 627 



texana 627 



Pteridium aquilinum 550 



Pteroplatea 474 



altavela 475 



marmorata 475 



Pteroplatvtr)-gon 474 



Ptychocochlis 522, 533, 533, 534 



Punctum calif ornicum 52, 134 



Pupa 135 



paza 503 



pazensis 503 



pellucida 503 



servilis 503 



Pupidte 135 



Pupilla 135 



hebesi 51, 135 



hebes nefa 135 



Pupillada* 135 



Pupillidae 135, 503, 520 



Pupoides margina t us 666-608 



Purpura 496 



Pvcnoscelus surinamensis 5 



Pygaera 296. 30S, 316 



Pyramidula cronkhitei 51 



(Gonyodiscus) cronkhitei 133 



striatelia 46 



Pyrola americana 581 



elliptiea 581 



Pyroxene 539 



Pyrrhochoris apterus 319 



Quercus alba 517, 561 



ilicifolia 546, 548, 549, 561 



marylandica 545, 547, 549, 561 



palustris 561 



prinoides 546, 548, 562 



prinus 562 



rubra 580 



stellata 545, 547, 548, 561 



velutina 547, 580 



Rachycentron canadus 601 



Radiodiscus milleeostatus 52, 133 



Raia blanda 471 



brachyura 468 



chilensis 468 



maculata 46S 



stellulata 470 



Raja agassizi 468 



a. ribeiroi 468 



batis 471 



brachyura 468 



brachyurops 468 



binoculata 470 



bonae-speiensis 468 



brachyura 471 



capensis 468 



chilensia 468 



circularis 471 



clavata 471 



eglanteria 470 



erinacea 470 



fal^avela 471 



hispanica 471 



lima 468 




1910.] 



NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



711 



Raja machuelo 471 



macrorynchus 470 



maeulata 468 



marginata 471 



meerdervoortii 471 



miraletus 471 



montagui 468 



ocellata 470 



osbeckii 471 



oxyrinchus 470 



picta 468 



punctata 471 



quadrimaculata 471 



radiata 470 



radula 471 



rhomboidalis. 471 



rostra ta 471 



pa} ? 474 



steindachneri 468 



stellulata 470 



torpedo .:.. 468 



Rajidae 470 



Rasbora 484 



Rhina sinesis 468 



Rhinobatida? 469 



Rhinobatos colurnna? < 469 



leucorhynehus 469 



productus 469 



rhinobatos 469 



Rhinoptera bonasus 475 



Rhodeina? 476 



Rhodeops 479 



Rhodeus macnlatus 476 



miobuta 478 



ocellatus 478 



oryzsp 478 



sericeus 476 



sinensis 478 



tanago 478 



Rhodopsis pusillus 500 



Rhus copallina..: 546, 567 



glabra 546, 567 



typhina 581 



Rhynchobatus djeddensis 469 



Rhynrhocheila _ 525 



Rhynchospora glomerate 556 



Rhvtidopoma campbelli 532 



' fraterminor 523. 532 



Rosa humilis 546, 564 



Rubus frondosus 564 



occidentalis ,580 



villos-us : 580 



Rumina decollata 665-668 



Sabbatia angularis 546, 571 



Sagda 516 



alveare 517 



anodon 528 



arboreoides 510 



connectens 517, 528 



cookiana 510 



epistylioides .510, 528 



forenianiann 517 



46 



Sagda grandis 517, 527,528 



hollandi 517 



jayana 517, 527 



minor 528 



osculans 530 



simplex 517, 529 



spei 528, 529 



Salasiella brown i 503, 508 



Salix humilis 560 



tristis 546, 560 



Salmaeina 490, 492 



incrustana 490 



Salmacinopsis 490, 492 



setosa 490 



Salomonia commutata 579 



Sambucus canadensis 583 



Samia cecropia 295, 299, 312, 313 



Sanguisorba canadensis 547, 564 



Sanicula marylandica 581 



Sarchirus argenteus 605 



vittatus 605 



Sarothra gentianoides 548, 568 



Sassafras sassafras 545, 547, 563 



Saxifraga virginiensis 545, 546, 564 



Scaphyrhynchops platorynchus 604 



Schilbeodes gyrinus 602 



Schistocerca alutacea 617, 632 



americana 7, 594, 617, 632 



damnifica 594, 632 



obscura 594 



Scirpus atrovirens 546, 556 



cyperinus 579 



Scirtetica picta 593, 617, 631 



marmorata 631 



Scleria pauciflora 545, 556 



p. caroliniana 557 



triglomerata 556 



Scolecite 540 



Scolopendra 304, 311 



Scudderia cuneata 636, 637 



curvicauda 636 



furcata 636 



furcifera 637 



texensis 636 



Scutellaria integrifolia 582 



parvula ambigua 547-549, 572 



pilosa 582 



Senecio balsamitae 546, 548, 577 



Sericocarpus asteroides 546, 576 



Seriola zonata 601 



Sigaleonida> 386 



Silene stellata 546, 562 



Si.svrinchium mucronatum, 545, 548, 



560 



Smilax glauca 546, 548, 559 



herbacea crispifolia 559 



_ rotundifolia 546, 548, 560 



Solidago altissima 575 



aspera 575 



bicolor 546, 575 



eaesia 575 



juncea ,...,■.. 575 




712 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Solidago nemoralis 546, 575 



rugosa 546, 575 



Sonorella, 49, 51, 53, 54, SI, 82, 87, 91, 



96, 105, 110 



ashmuni 64 



bicipitis, 50, 55, 55, 58, 59,61, 67, 68 



binnevi 55, 68, 68 



bowiensis, 50, 55. 58, 62, 65-69, 100 



hachitana 55, 58, 60, 61, 69 



h. bowiensis 65 



h. flora 60 



huachucana 58 



leucura 48, 50 



micra, 48, 49, 53, 55, 74, 76, 99, 127 

 optata, 50, 55, 58, 60, 60, 62-65, 67 



rinconensis 69 



rowelli 68, 69 



virilis, 53, 55, 69, 70, 72, 76, 77, 



91, 105, 109 



v. circumstriata 69, 70, 72, 74 



v. leucura, 53, 55, 72, 72, 75, 76 



Sorgasthrum nutans 545, 551 



Spheroides maculatus 601 



Spharagemon bolli 592, 631 



crista tuni 593 



collare wyoiningianum 593 



Sphenopholis obtusata pubescens, 



548, 549, 555 



Sphinx 296 



Sphyra^na 406 



Spiraea latitolia 547, 564 



Spiraxis hrviusculus 520 



mirabilis 520 



parallellus 520 



perplexus 520 



procerus 520 



terebella 520 



Spirobranchus 499 



dendropoina 500 



giganteus 500 



incrassatus 500 



pseudoincrassatus 500 



tricornis 500 



Spirorbis formosus 500 



mutabilis 500 



Spirostemma diuikeri 518 



elatior 531 



mandevillensis 519, 530 



tenella 531 



tenera 518 



Sporobolus heterolepis 547-549, 554 



vagina?florus 545 , 554 



Squalius photogenis 291 



Squatina squatina 599 



Stagmomantis caroliniana 586, 621 



sp 6 



Stauroneis 458-460 



acuta 456-458 



a. var. terrvana 456, 457 



terryi 456, 457 



terryana 456 



Stenobothrus bilineatus 



maculipennis 



Stenopelma tus fascia tus 



Stenophyllus capilla ris 



Stenotonnis chrysops 



Sterkia 



Sthenelais 394, 



blanchardi 



fusca 



tertia glabra 



Sthenelanella 



unit'ormis 



Sthenolepis 



areolata 



Stilbite 



Stirapleura d elicatula 



Stizostedion vitreum 



Stoastoma (Metcalfia) chittyanum, 



(Petitia ) cumingianum 



(Petitia) fortuneanum 



gouldianum 



(Fadyenia) grayanum 



pisum 



Strobilops hubbardi 



Strophostyles umbellata 548, 



Stylodonta unidentata 



Stylosanthes biflora 



Subprotula 493, 



longiseta 493, 



Subulina octona 502, 518, 665- 



Succinea avara 51, 78, 82, 86, 



bermudensis 665- 



latior 



recLsa 



Succineida- 144, 503, 



Syndesmon t ha lictroides 



Syntherisnia filiformis 545, 



linearis 



Syrbula adniirabilis 587, 617, 



Taeniura lymma 



Talinum teretifolium, 545, 547, 549, 



Tarpon atlanticua 



Tautoga onitia 



Tautogolabrus adspersus 



Telea polyphemus, 295, 309, 311, 



Temnopteryx 407, 



deropeltiformis 



desert a? 408, 



fulvescens 



major 433, 



marginata 423, 427, 



texensis 440, 



virginica 436, 437, 



Tetronarce 



Tettigidea lateralis 587, 



prorsa 617, 



Tettigonidae 7, 17, 595, 



Thalictrum revolutum 



Thamnopb is butleri 



Thelodus 



Thesprotia graminis ■ 



6 



6 



17 



584 

 601 

 136 

 395 

 398 

 395 

 395 

 395 

 391 

 391 

 391 

 539 

 12 

 602 

 524 

 524 

 524 

 524 

 524 

 524 

 666 

 566 

 664 

 565 

 494 

 494 

 667 

 144 

 668 

 520 

 503 

 520 

 563 

 551 

 5S3 

 625 

 473 

 562 

 599 

 601 

 601 

 320, 

 321 

 408 

 411 

 44$ 



4-11 

 435 

 429 

 441 

 439 

 472 

 624 

 624 

 636 

 563 

 149 

 656 

 586 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



713 



Thysanophora 53, 115, 516 



anthoniana 517 



boothiana 517 



canalis 507 



conspurca tella 502 



depressa 516 



diminuta 517 



dioscoricola 517 



epistyliulum 517 



hornii 52, 86, 115, 115 



hypolepta 666, 667 



inconspicua 517 



ingersolli 46, 115, 1 15-117 



i. convexior 117 



i. meridionalis 51, 110 



TI i ysanophora selenina 665-668 



subpyramidalis 516 



turbiniformis 516 



Torpedo narke 472 



nobiliana Jft2 



Trachinotus carolinus 601 



Tradescantia virginica 579 



Trichiurus lepturus 601 



Trichostema dichotomiim 582 



Tridactylus apicalis 596 



terminalis 596 



Tridens flavus 555 



Trimerotropis albolineata 13 



arenaceus 13 



bilobata ' 13 



citrina 593, 631 



cristata 13 



gracilis 13 



laticincta 16 



maritima 631 



m. interior 13 



rebellis 12, 13 



saxatilis 593 



vinculata 16 



Tristemma '. 117 



Trochatella 525 



pulchella 525 



Truncatellidae 521 



Truxalis brevicomis 587, 616, 624 



Trygon brucco 474 



haslata 475 



violaceum 474, 474 



Tudora arniata 522 



fecunda 523 



proxirna 510 



Typha angustifolia 548, 550 



latit'olia 578 



l T mbra pygmsea 601, 602 



Urocoptida? 117, 510, 518 



Urocoptis ambigiia 518 



inornata 510 



rosea 518 



Urolophus halleri 473 



jamaicensis 473 



mundus 473 



nebulosus 473 



Urophycis regius 602 



Vaccinium atrococcum 570 



pennsylvanicum 570 



vacillans 546, 570 



Vagnera racemosa 559 



Vallonia perspectiva 52, 135 



pulchella 665-667 



Valloniidse 135 



Varicella blandiana 519 



• near clappi 519 



cochlidium 519 



dissimilis 519 



ligata 510 



mandevillensis 519 



philippiana elegans 519 



procera 519 



proxirna 519 



puella 531 



rapax 519, 531 



(Varicellula) rapax 531 



similaris sloaneana 520 



tenera 531 



venusta 519 



Vermilia annulata 500 



Vernonia glauca 574 



noveboracensis 546, 574 



Veronicella 521 



Veronieellidae 521 



Vertigo 135, 144, 521 



coloradoensis basidens 51, 144 



columbiana utahensis 51, 144 



eyriesii 666 



marki 666 



milium 51, 144 



modesta parietalis 51, 144 



numellata 666 



(Bothriopupa) tenuidens 521 



variolosa 521 



Viana 525 



regina 525 



sagra 525 



Viburnum prunifolium 583 



Viola fimbriatula 546, 569 



palmata 581 



pedata lineariloba 548, 569 



sagittata .' 569 



Vitis aestivalis 568 



Vitrea 115 



indentata 86 



i. umbilicata 52, 131 



lucida 666, 667 



Vitrina alaskana 51, 130 



Xiphidium brevipenne 643 



ensit'erum 64S 



fasciatum 7, 64.8 



nemorale 644 



saltans 644 



strictum 643 



Xolisma ligustrina 546, 570 



Zacco 484 



Zamia 317 




714 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec.,. 



Zap] lysema 516 



buddiana 526 



b. avis 526 



macmurrayi 515 



tenerrima 516 



tunicata 516 



Zonites 516 



Zonitidae 130. 503, 520 



Zonitoides arborea 46, 51, 130 



bermudensis 666, 667 



milium meridionals 52, 130 



minuscula 665-66S 



m. alachuana 52, 131 



Zizia cordata 569 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



715 



(1ENERAL INDEX. 



1910. 



Additions to the Museum, 691. 

 Barbour, Thomas. A note regarding 



the Chinese Alligator, 454, 464. 

 Berry, S. Stillman. A note on the 



genus Lolliguncula, 655. 

 Bilgram, Hugo. Unusual Forms of 



Mvxomycetes, 271. 

 Biological' and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 683. 



Botanical Section, report of, 685. 



Bover, Charles S. Jelly-pores in the 

 Diatomacetc, 271. Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 6S3. 



Brewer, William K., announcement oi 

 death of, 614. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin, Sc.D., announce- 

 ment of deatli of, and resolutions, 

 613. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 685. 



Buckley, Edward S., announcement 

 of death of, 614. 



Bush, Katharine J., Ph.D. Descrip- 

 tion of new Serpulids from Bermuda 

 with notes on known forms from 

 adjacent regions (Plate XXXVI), 

 490, 536. 



Col ton, Harold Sellers. Modiolaria 

 marmorata and its surface film, 42. 



Committees, Standing, 1. 



Converse, John H., announcement of 

 death of, 614. 



Cook, Margaret Harris. Spermato- 

 genesis in Lepidoptera (Plates 

 XXII-XXVII), 149, 294. 



Cope, Francis R., announcement of 

 death of, 536. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 674. 



Council for 1911, 689. • 



Curators, report of, 680. 



Davis, William B. On fresh-water 

 Polyzoa (no abstract), 272. 



Department of Mollusca, report of, 682. 



Dixon, S. G., M.D. Report of Cura- 

 tors, 680. 



Elections during 1911, 690. 



Entomological Section, 684. 



Ford, John, announcement of deatW 



' of, 2. 



Fowler, Henry W. Thamnophis but- 

 leri a gam in Pennsylvania, 149. 

 Notes on the variation of some 

 species of the genus Notropis (Plates 

 XV-XXI), 273. Notes on Batoid 

 fishes, 454, 468. Descriptions of 

 four Cyprinoids (Rhodeimc), 454, 

 476. Notes on Chimsproid and Gan- 

 oid fishes, 536, 603. Little-known 

 New Jersey fishes, 536, 599. A new 

 Albuloid fish from San Domingo, 

 537, 651. 



Fowler, Henry W., and Richard J. 

 Philips. A new fish of the genus 

 Paralepis from New Jersey, 254, 403. 



Garrison, F. Lynwood. Copper de- 

 posits and mining operation near 

 Bound Brook, N. J. (no abstract), 

 455. 



Harshberger, John H., Ph.D. Physi- 

 ognomy of North American vegeta- 

 tion (no abstract), 149. 



Hartman, John M., announcement of 

 death of, 536. 



Index to Genera, 698. 



Jannev, Nathaniel E., announcement 

 of death of, 254. 



Jessup, Edward A., announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



Keelev, Frank J. On Micrometry 

 (no'abstract). 272. 



Leffmann, Henry, M.D. On parasitism 

 in plants (no abstract), 1. Prepara- 

 tions of rock-sections by polarized 

 light (no abstract), 455. Mechanical 

 principles in living structures, 614. 



Librarian, report of, 676. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 686. 



Macfarland, John M., M.D. Varia- 

 tion, hybridization and heredity in 

 native plants (no abstract), 41. 



MacOwen, Peter, announcement of 

 death of, 2. 




716 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



report of, 686. 

 Montgomery, Thomas H., Ph.D. On 



sexual selection in spiders (no 



abstract), 149. 

 Moore, Clarence B. Antiquities of the 



St. Francis, White and Black Rivers 



(published as Vol. XIV, Part 2 of 



the Journal), 536, 537. 



Moore, Percy, Ph.D. The Polychaetous 

 Annelids dredged by the"U. S. S. 

 "Albatross " off the coast of Southern 

 California in 1904: II. Polynoidse, 

 Aphroditidse and Segaleonidse 

 (Plates XXVIII-XXXIII), 254, 328. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 67 1 . 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. On Cingalese 



script (no abstract). II. A Bio- 

 graphical Notice of Henry Cadwala- 

 der Chapman, M.D.. Sc.D. (with 

 portrait), 255. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 673. Report of Libra- 

 rian, 676. 



Officers, Councillors and Members of 

 the Committee on Accounts for 1911, 

 688. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 687. 



Palmer, T. Chalkier. Stauroneis terrvi 

 D. B. Ward (Plate XXXIV), 271, 

 456. A Xew Diatom (Plate 

 XXXV), 271, 46(). On Navicula 

 socialis (no abstract ), 272. 



Pennell, Francis W. Flora of the 

 Conowingo Barrens of southwestern 

 Pennsylvania, 536, 541. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. On parallel and 

 convergent evolution in snails (no 

 abstract), 41. A new species of 

 Marinula from near the head of the 

 Gulf of California, 41, 148. A new 

 Haitian Oligocene Horizon, 487, 536. 

 Land Mollusca of the Panama Canal 

 Zone (Plate XXXVII), 502, 536. 

 Report of Curators, 680. Report 

 of the Department of Mollusca, 682. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and Amos P. Brown. 

 The mollusca of Mandeville, Jamaica, 

 and its environs, 510, 536. 



Pilsbry, Henry A., and J. H. Ferriss. 

 Mollusca of the Southwestern 

 States: IV. The Chiricahua Moun- 

 tains, Arizona (Plates I-XIV), 41, 

 44. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 673. 



Reed, Chester A. Some geological 

 features of the Arbuckle Mountains 

 of Oklahoma (no abstract), 454. 



Rehn, James A. G. On the Orthoptera 

 of Bermuda, 3. Some notes on 

 Idaho Orthoptera, with the descrip- 



tion of a new species of Trimero- 

 tropis, 12. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan 

 Hebard. A revision of the X T orth 

 American species of the Genus 

 Ischnoptera (Orthoptera), 271, 407 

 Preliminary studies of North Caro- 

 lina Orthoptera, 536, 615. Records 

 of Georgia and Florida Orthoptera, 

 with the descriptions of one new 

 species and one new subspecies, 536. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 6S3. 



Report of Botanical Section, 685. 



Report of the ( 'orresponding Secretary, 

 674. 



Report of Curators, 680. 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 

 682. 



Report of Entomological Section, 684. 



Report of Librarian. 676. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 686. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 687. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 673. 



Sargent, C. S. Crataegus in Penn- 

 sylvania, II, 41, 150. 



Schumo, Silas. Microscopic characters 



of the stems of Equisetum (no 



abstract), 272. Pot holes of the 



Falls of Schuylkill (no abstract), 



155. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. On ambergris 



and spermaceti (no abstract), 655. 



Sharp, R. Rowdier, announcement of 

 death of, 2. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Insects injuri- 

 ous to shade and fruit trees, 454. 

 Report of Entomological Section, 

 684. 



Smith, Burnett. Notes on some little- 

 known fishes from the New York 

 Devonian, 656. 



Smith, Edgar F. Some Berks County 

 Minerals, 536, 538. 



Southern, R., B.Sc. A new species 

 of Enehytneid worm from the 

 White Mountains, 18. 



Standing Committees for 1910, 1. 



Standing Committees for 1911, 690. 



Stewart, Thomas S., M.D. On the 

 Hook-worm (Ankylostoma duoden- 

 ale) (no abstract),' 271. 



Stone, Witmer. Life-zones of south- 

 ern Xew Jersey (no abstract), 537. 

 Report of Curators, 680. Report 

 of Ornithological Section, 687. 



Thodorovitch, Theodore de, announce- 

 ment of death of, 536. 



Thomas, Lancaster, announcement of 

 1 death of, 454. 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



717 



Vanatta, E. G. Bermuda shells, 655, 

 664. 



Van Sickel, H. On a new crystalliza- 

 tion of platinum (no abstract), 272. 



Walker, Bryant. Variations of Poly- 

 gyra albolabris in Michigan, 21. 



Wardle, H. Newell. Congress of 

 Americanists and Mexican ruins (no 

 abstract), 613. 



Wheeler, Win. Morton. On the effects 



of parasitic and other kinds of cas- 

 tration on insects (no abstract), 2. 



Whelen, Charles S., announcement of 

 death of, 536 



Wherry, Edgar T., Ph.D. The copper 

 deposits of Franklin and Adams 

 Counties, Pennsylvania, 454. 



Whitman, C O., announcement of 

 death of, 655. 



Wood, Richard, announcement of 

 death of, 614. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1910 



PLATE XXXVIII. 



FOWLER ON GANOIDS. 







7 / y x 



MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflST 1 





