



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LVI 



1904 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1904-1905 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



Febeuary 1, 1905. 

 I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1904 have been 

 mailed as follows : — 



Pages 1- 32 mailed February 



33- 64.. 



65-112.. 

 113-160., 

 161-208.. 

 209-256.. 

 257-320.. 

 321-400.. 

 401-432.. 

 433-464.. 

 465-512.. 

 513-560.. 

 561-576.. 

 577-600.. 

 601-632.. 

 633-680.. 

 681-744.. 

 745-760.. 

 761-824.. 

 825-840.. 



February 



March 



March 



March 



April 



May 



May 



June 



June 



July 



August 



August 



October 



October 



November 



December 



January 



January 



February 



EDVVARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary 



1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1904. 

 1905. 

 1905. 

 1905. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, 



Edward J. Nol.an, M.D., 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR : Edavard J. Nolan, M.D. 



1 I 1 L 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index, 



Banks, Nathan. The Arachnicla of Florida (Plates VII, VIII), 120 

 Brown, Arthur Erwin. Post-glacial Nearctic Centers of Dis- 

 persal for Reptiles, 464 



Casteel, Dana Brackenridge, Ph.D. The Cell-Lineage and 



Early I^arval Development of Fiona marina, a Nudi- 



branchiate Molliisk (Plates XXI-XXXV), 325 



Chamberlin, Ralph V. New Chilopods 651 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Observations on Tupaia, with 



Reflections on the Origin of Primates (Plates IX, X), . 148 



Observations on Hyrax, 476 



Cockerell, T. D. a. The Roses of Pecos, New Mexico, . . . 108 



Fielde, Adele M. Three Odd Incidents in Ant-Life, .... 639 

 Fielde, Adele M., and George H. Parker. The Reactions of 



Ants to Material Vibrations, 642 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on the Characinidse, 119 



New, Little Known and Typical Berycoid Fishes, .... 222 

 Description of a New Race of Notropis chalybseus from New 



Jersey (Plate XVII), 239 



Notes on Fishes from Arkansas, Indian Territory and 



Texas, 242 



New, Rare or Little Known Scombroids, No. 1 (Plate LI), . 757 

 GuLiCK, Addison. The Fossil Land Shells of Bermuda (Plate 



XXXVI), 406 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. The Comparative Age of the 



Different Floristic Elements of Eastern North America, 601 



Heath, Harold. The Larval Eye of Chitons, 257 



Keeley, F. J. A Spencer Objective, 475 



Keller, Ida. Summer Activity of ^ome Spring Flowers, . . 481 

 Monks, Sarah P. Variability and Autonomy of Phataria (Plate 



XLII), 596 




11 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., Ph.D. Descriptions of North 

 American Aranese of the Families Lycosidse and Pisauri- 



dffi (Plates XVIII, XIX, XX), . .' . 261 



The Development and Structure of the Larva of Paragordius 



(Plates XLIX, L), 738 



Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. New Polychseta from California (Plates 



XXXVII, XXXVIII), 484 



Sexual Polymorphism in Annelids, 685 



Description of a New Species of Earth-worm from Georgia, 803 

 Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D., and Katherine J. Busch. Sabcllidifi 



and Serpulidse from Japan (Plates XI, XII), .... 157 

 Nelson, James A., Ph.D. The Early Development of Dino- 

 philus: A Study in Cell-Lineage (Plates XLIII- 



XLVIII), 687 



Oberholser, Harry C. A Monograph of the Genus Dendro- 



cincla Gray, 447 



PiLSBRY, Henry A., Sc.D. New Japanese Marine Mollusca: 



Gastropoda (Plates I- VI), 5 



New Japanese Marina Mollusca: Pclecypoda (Plates 



XXXIX, XL, XLI), 550 



New Clausiliidse of the Japanese Empire, X (Plates LII- 



LVII), 809 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., and Y. Hirase. Descriptions of New 



Land Snails of the Japanese Empire, 616 



Pilsbry, Henry A., Sc.D., and E. G. Vanatta. On Certain 

 Rhachiglossate Gastropoda Eliminated from the Aquil- 



lidffi, 592 



Rehn, James A. G. Studies in the Orthoptcrous Family Phas- 



midse, 38 



A Study of the Mammalian Genus Chilonycteris, . . . . 181 

 A Study of the Bats of the Genus Dermonotus (Pteronotus 



auct.), 250 



A Revision of the Mammalian Genus Macrotus, 427 



Notes on Orthoptera from Northern and Central Mexico, . . 513 

 Notes on Orthoptera from Arizona, New Mexico and Colo- 

 rado, 562 



Studies in the Orthopterous Subfamilies Acrydiinee (Tetti- 



ginae), Eumastacinse and Proscopina?, 658 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard. The Orthoptera 



of Thomas County, Georgia, and Leon County. Florida. 774 




Ill 



Sharp, Bexjamin, and Hexry W. Fowler. The Fishes of Nan- 

 tucket, 504 



Stevens, N. M. On the Germ Cells and the Embryology of 



Planariasimplissima (Plates XIII-XVI), 208 



Stone, Witmer. Notes on a Collection of Calif ornian Mammals, 586 



Stone, Witmer, and A. S. Bunnell. On a Collection of Birds 



and Mammals from Mount Sanhedrin, California, . . 576 



Wetherill, Henry Emerson, M.D. A New Centrifuge, . . . 685 



Some Practical Color-Tests, 772 





PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1904. 



January 5. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : 



Library. — Dr. C. N. Peirce, Thomas A. Robinson, Henry C. Chap- 

 man, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., and Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 



Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, D.Sc, 

 Phihp P. Calvert, Ph.D., Witmer Stone, and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, D.Sc, Charles Morris, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Dr. C. N. 

 Peirce. 



Finance. — Isaac J. Wistar, William Sellers, John Cadwalader, 

 Edwin S. Dixon and the Treasurer. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. Wistar, Arthur 

 E. Brown, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., and John Cadwalader. 

 1 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D., presented a coinniunication entitled 

 "Observations on Tupaia ferruginea, "with reflections on the Origin of 

 Primates." 



The PubHcation Committee reported that the following communi- 

 cations had been received: 



"Studies in the Orthopterous Family Phasmidse," by James A. G. 

 Rehn. (December 12, 1903.) 



*'A Collection of Fishes from Sumatra/' by Henry W. Fowler. 

 (December 23, 1903.) 



"The Roses of Pecos, New Mexico," by T. D. A. Cockerell. (Decem- 

 ber 24, 1903.) 



The following were accepted for publication: 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA : GASTROPODA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The new species of Gastropoda contained in recent sendings from 

 Mr. Y. Hirase are herein described. The material studied contains 

 a large number of species previously not known from Japanese waters, 

 which I hope to enumerate in a future paper. 



Some shells from a collection made in Sagami Bay for the Academy, 

 by Miss A. C. Hartshorne, are also included in this account. 



TEREBRID^. 

 Terebra hedleyi n. sp. PI. I, figs, l, la. 



Shell slender, the length about 05 times the diameter, solid, whitish, 

 marked sparsely with brown dots on the cinguli and with streaks below 

 them, the last whorl with some dots or spots in a circular row on the 

 base. 



Sculpture consisting of a wide above a narrower tuberculate cord, 

 occupying somewhat more than half the total width of the whorl, 

 below these cinguli there are four small equal spiral cords, the lowest 

 one partly covered at the suture. On the last whorl these cords gradu- 

 ally diminish downward, those on the periphery and base being small 

 and very low or subobsolete. The growth-strise are oblique on the 

 cinguli, arcuate on the cords below them. WTiorls 15J, the first large 

 and globose, first l-i- smooth and gray-white. The last whorl abruptly 

 contracts below, and is produced in a short anterior canal. Aperture 

 small, irregularly rhombic, the outer lip thin and sinuous, columella 

 vertical, abruptly bent to the left below, covered with a glossy white 

 callous, which extends over the parietal wall. 



Length 33.6, diam. 6 mm.; length of aperture 6 mm.; diam. of the 

 first whorl 1 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,946, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,412 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to T. serotina A. and R., and the closely allied 

 or identical T. mariesi Sm., but it is not costate below the tuberculate 

 bands, and the protoconch is very much larger. Named in honor of 

 Charles Hedley, of the Australian Museum. 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Terebra Mzenensis n. sp. PI. I, figs. 2, 2^. 



Shell slender with straight lateral outlines, wliite, lustcrless. Whorls 

 15|-, nearly flat, the first two smooth, the first whorl rather globose and 

 convex. Sculpture of ratlier strong, even, slightly arcuate rounded 

 ribs, about 21 in number on the last whorl, and nearly as wide as their 

 intervals. These ribs are cut but not interrupted by a spiral groove 

 defining a subsutural fasciole, the groove being deeper in the inter- 

 stices. Below the groove or furrow there are 6 to 8 spiral cords, low 

 on the summits of the ribs, stronger in the intervals; and above the 

 furrow there are 4 or 5 finer spiral threads. The suture is rather deeply 

 impressed. The small aperture is irregularly trapezoidal; columella 

 vertical; canal recurved. Length 26, diam. 6, longest axis of aperture 

 6 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,993, A. X. S. P., from Xp. 1,529 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Similar to T. suhtextilis Smith in color and sculpture, but in speci- 

 mens of the same length this species is broader with a larger aperture. 



Terebra awajiensis n. sp. PI. I, figs. 3, 3a. 



Shell straightly acuminate, rather slender, the diameter contained 

 about 4f times in the length. The upper half of each whorl is brownish 

 cream-tinted, the lower half purplish or reddish-brown, usually paler 

 or fading toward the suture below. The last whorl has a supra- 

 peripheral purple-brown band, sharply defined on its upper edge, paler 

 and fading below, where it is interrupted by light streaks. It extends 

 as far as the basal contraction, but just below the periphery is divided 

 by a narrow whitish spiral band. Sculpture of rather acute, nearly 

 vertical riblets, which bend forward a little below, and on the last 

 whorl are distinctly bent forward, and gradually diminish do'wnward, 

 disappearing at the subperipheral' light band. The ribs are pale and 

 interrupt the dark band. The intervals are concave and wider than 

 the ribs, without spiral striation, but the whole surface shows faint 

 growth-lines. Slightly below the upper third each whorl is cut by a 

 spiral furrow interrupted by the ribs, leaving an oblong pit in each 

 interval (but in some specimens the furrow is continuous though weak 

 over the ribs). The pits are first developed on the 8th or 9th whorl, 

 those above having no trace of the sulcus. "WTiorls about 18, the first 

 3 smooth, the apical whorl purple-black and having a diameter of 

 about .3 mm.; subsequent whorls nearly flat, parted by a narrow, 

 impressed suture, the last whorl rounded peripherally, strongly con- 

 tracted below. Siphonal fasciole short and convex, bounded above 

 by a low and inconspicuous ridge. Aperture a little less than one- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



fourth the length of the shell, acuminate above, with a deep'and wide 

 basal channel. Columella browTi, with a low, wide and very indistinct 

 basal fold, below which it is bent somewhat to the left. Parietal wall 

 covered with a thin transparent varnish. 



Length 37, diam. 8 mm. ; length of aperture S.8 mm. ; 21 ribs on last 

 whorl. 



Length 35, diam. 7.3 mm.; length of aperture 8.7 mm.; 25"ribs on 

 last whorl. 



Fukura, Awaji. Types No. 86,004, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,352 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is close to T. nitida Hinds in sculpture, but it is less 

 slender, and the last whorl is more swollen peripherally and more 

 contracted beneath. It differs from T. lischkeana in the smooth inter- 

 costal spaces. 



Parviterebra paucivolvis n. sp. PL I, fig. 4. 



Shell lanceolate, moderately solid, white with four spiral series of 

 squarish red-brown spots, the upper series bordering the suture below, 

 two others at the periphery, and the fourth on the base. The suture 

 is widely gray-margined by transparence. Sculpture of close, fine, 

 rounded longitudinal riblets, as wide as their intervals, and on the 

 last whorl much smaller, almost obsolete. These are crossed by spiral 

 subpunctate impressed lines, which are rather widely spaced. W^iorls 

 7, but slightly convex, the last, as seen from the front, longer than 

 the spire, gradually tapering dowmward. Aperture lanceolate, the 

 columellar margin but slightly concave. 



Length 12, diam. 3.4 mm. 



Length 11.5, diam. 3 mm. 



Yakujima, Osumi. Types No. 86,133, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,419 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species seems most closely related to the Australian Euryta 

 hrazieri Angas, which, however, has a larger aperture. Also to E. 

 pulchella Angas (Terebra angasi Try on) and E. trilineata Angas, both 

 of which differ in details of form and coloration. The small Japanese 

 T. tantilla Smith is diversely sculptured and belongs to a different 

 section. The Australian species mentioned are placed in the sub- 

 genus Euryta by Angas and Tryon, but they are not related to the 

 tj^e of Euryta (now Mazatlania). I propose for them the genus 

 Parviterebra, characterized by the small number of whorls, absence 

 of any groove defining a subsutural band, and by the long, gradually 

 tapering body-whorl without a differentiated siphonal fasciole at the 

 base, the columella straight to its abrupt truncation below. This 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



genus is not closely related to Terehra or the subgenus Mazatlania, 

 but seems to belong to the Terebridce. The Japanese species defined 

 above is the t3'pe of this group. 



CONIDuE. 

 Conus dorinitor n. sp. PI. I, figs. 9, 9a. 



Shell rather narrow and long, the diameter somewhat more than ^ 

 the length, the spire elevated, concave-sided, \ the length of the shell. 

 The apex is broken off, 11 whorls remaining, the peripheral angle of 

 each projecting above the sutiu'e. The last 2^ are even at the periphery, 

 but tho^e preceding are nodulose. The concave, steeply sloping 

 upper surface of each whorl is closely and regularly, finely costulate, 

 the riblets arcuate, and decussated by several unequal spiral shallow 

 grooves. The last whorl has almost straight lateral outlines, and is 

 sculptured with closely punctate spiral grooves, very faint near the 

 angle of the whorls, but becoming stronger and closer toward the base. 

 The siphonal fasciole is closely spirally striate, not punctate. The 

 aperture is long, narrow, and of equal width throughout. 



Length 44, diam. 16 mm.; aperture 34 mm. long. 



Kikai, Osumi, in a deposit probably Pliocene. Types No. 85,950, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,552 of IMr. Hirase's collection. 



This cone is related to C. acutangulus Lam., but is longer than that 

 species. C. aculeiformis Rve. is similar in shape, but differs in sculp- 

 ture. The specimens show no color. 



Conus kikaiensis n. sp. PI. I, figs. S, 8a. 



Shell long and narrow, the diameter al^out one-third the length, 

 the elevated and slightly concave-sided spire one-fourth the length. 

 Whorls remaining 10, nearly fiat and steeply sloping, the smooth 

 peripheral angle projecting a little alcove the suture, the surface above 

 it sculptured with 3 to 5 low, unequal spiral cords, and fine, arcuate 

 growth-lines. I^ateral outlines of the last whorl nearly straight. 

 Sculptm^e of regular, rather strong, narrow spiral grooves, which are 

 somewhat striate across, weaker aljove. There are 23-25 of these 

 grooves alcove the convex siphonal fasciole, which is indistinctly finel}- 

 striate spirally. In some specimens the ffat intervals between the 

 grooves are divided in the middle b}- a smaller groove. 



Length 40-41, diam. 13 mm. 



Kikai, Osumi; fossil in a Pliocene (?) deposit. Types No. 85,948, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,553 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is not unlike C. dormitor and C. aculeiformis in general 

 shape, but it differs essentially from both in the sculpture of the spire. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



The outer lip is a good deal damaged in lioth of the specimens 



received. 



Conns gratacapii n. sp. PI. I, figs. 10, 10a. 



Shell_ slender and lengthened, the diameter somewhat exceeding 

 one-third of the length, the high straight-sided spire occupying two- 

 fifths the length of the shell. Apex broken. 12 whorls remaining are 

 fiat, with the smooth peripheral angle immediately above the suture, 

 but scarcely projecting, a little more prominent on the upper than on 

 the lower whorls. The surface of each whorl is a trifle concave, and 

 sculptured with about 6 low, unequal spiral cords. Below the periph- 

 eral angle the last whorl is sculptured with about 25 spiral grooves, 

 weaker above, stronger and closer below; and the growth-striae curve 

 strongly backward near the angle. The aperture is very narrow, and 

 of equal width throughout, and two-thirds as long as the shell. 



Length 30, diam. 11 mm.; length of aperture 20 mm. 



Length 31, diam. 11.5 mm.; length of aperture 20.3 mm. 



Kikai, Osumi, in a Pliocene (?) deposit. Types No. 85,947, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,554 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar species resembles C. kikaiensis in sculpture, but is 

 unlike that in form. It is named for Mr. L. P. Gratacap, of the Ameri- 

 can Museum of Natural History. 



PLBUROTOMID^. 



Drillia streptonotus n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 18, 18a, 186. 



Shell slender and turrite, solid, light brown with an obscure band 

 below the suture and another on the base. Sculpture of regular, 

 subvertical rounded folds as wide as their intervals, about IS in num- 

 ber on the last whorl, wdiere they disappear a short distance below the 

 periphery. These are crossed by numerous spiral threads, alternately 

 larger and smaller, but on the lower, contracted half of the last whorl 

 the spirals are regular and equal. Under a strong lens the whole sur- 

 face is seen to be covered with densely crowded rows of minute 

 papillae. Whorls 9^, strongh^ convex. The first wiiorl is smooth and 

 rounded; then an acute peripheral keel begins, and a whorl and a 

 half later low radial sculpture and fine papillae appear. The first two 

 or three sculptured whorls are angular, the keel persisting to the end 

 in the peripheral thread. Aperture flask-shaped, wider above, the 

 outer lip with about 6 small teeth within, arranged in pairs; deeply 

 excised above, and produced in a short recurved spout at the anal sinus; 

 contracted below to form a short siphonal canal. 



Length 8.8, diam. 2.8 mm.; length of aperture 3 nun. 




S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Length 6.9, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 86,128, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,4166 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Distinct by its turrite shape, convex whorls and spout-like anal sinus, 

 and the beautiful minute sculpture, hardly visible without a compound 

 microscope. 



Drillia albiguttata n. sp, PI. III. fig. 19. 



This species, of which only more or less beach-worn specimens have 

 been received, is extremely similar to D. zebra Lam. of the West Indies. 

 It is somewhat more slender. The ground color is chocolate. The 

 sculpture consists of thick longitudinal ribs, 12 on the last whorl, each 

 with a white spot at the shoulder, another below the middle of the last 

 whorl, and there is a white band around the siphonal fasciole. There 

 is a seam-like welt below the suture, and the unworn intervals between 

 the ribs are scul]'>tured with alternately large and small spiral cords. 

 Whether these pass over the ribs or not cannot be ascertained from 

 the examples examined. The lip and anal sinus are like those parts 

 in D. zebra. 



Length 11, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Seto, Kii. Types Xo. 86,122, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 1,349 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



Daphnella radula n. sp. PI. II, figs. 17, 17a. 



Shell fusiform, rather solid, pale brown, indistinctly mottled with 

 white and marked with short brown lines on the larger spiral cords, 

 a series of alternately white and brown squarish spots below the 

 suture. Surface sharply sculptured with alternate spiral cords and 

 threads, about 52 in all on the last whorl, intersected by fine raised 

 longitudinal threads, prominent where they cross the spirals. The 

 lower edge of the anal fasciole is defined by a sulcus slightly unlike the 

 other intervals, where the growih-lines bend abruptly backward. 

 Wliorls 8, the first two brown, with the usual diagonallj^ intersecting 

 grooves of Daphnella, the next whorl with three spirals. Last whorl 

 long, tapering above and below. Aperture more than half the shell's 

 length. Outer lip thick but beveled to an edge, obHquely and 

 deeply excised above, a little sinuated near the base. The anterior 

 channel is short and rather shallow. 



Length 13.5, diam. 5 mm.; length of aperture 7.7 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 85,965, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 903a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The shell of this species is thick, like that of Daphnella maculosa 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Pse.; but it is noticeably wider than that, with a more ample aperture 

 and entirely different coloration. 



Mangilia pura n. sp. PI. II, figs. 15, 15a. 



Shell fusiform, rather thin, cream-white, indistinctly stained wdth 

 brown in some places below the suture. Sculpture of curved, sHghtly 

 sinuous, rounded longitudinal ribs, slightly narrow^er than their con- 

 cave intervals, and about 21 in number on the last whorl; the last rib 

 much larger, forming a stout lip-varix. These are crossed by many 

 spaced spiral threads passing over ribs and intervals, and about 30 

 in number on the last whorl. The intervals between these threads 

 are sometimes divided by a secondary threadlet ; and there is through- 

 out a very minute, even and regular granulation produced by the inter- 

 section of spiral and longitudinal striae . Whorls about 8, the first 

 two rounded, and Avith delicate spaced costulae, forming a trochoidal 

 nucleus; the last whorl slightly ascending in front. Aperture long and 

 narrow, obtuse at the ends, smooth within, slightly retracted above. 



Length 13, diam. 4.7 mm. ; length of aperture 7.7 mm. 



Length 9.8, diam. 3.8 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,974, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,527 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species seems to be similar to M. cylindnca Reeve, but that 

 shell is more slender. 

 Mangilia semicarinata n. sp. PI. II, figs. 16, 16a. 



Shell fusiform-turrit e, white with some brown stains beloAv the suture 

 and a brown spot at the middle of the lip-varix; rather thin. Sculp- 

 ture of many slightlj^ oblique and arcuate longitudinal riblets about 

 as wide as their inter^-als, and sixteen in number on the last whorl. 

 These are crossed by spaced spiral threads, about 18 from the shoulder 

 down on the last whorl, a little widened where they pass over the rib- 

 lets. The spaces between the threads and above the shoulder are 

 very finely striate spirally. Whorls 7, the first 1^ rounded, radially 

 weakly costulate, several whorls following convex, rounded, the last 

 2 or 3 whorls angular at the shoulder. The last whoii bears a narrow, 

 elevated, arcuate lip-varix. Aperture narrow, both lips slightly arcu- 

 ate; blunt at the ends, smooth within. Anal sinus rather deep and 

 rounded, the varix curving back of it. 



Length 7, diam. 2.7 mm.; length of aperture 2.7 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 86,124, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,520 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Mangilia kamakurana n. sp. PI. II, figs. 11, lla. 



Shell very small, white with a brown spot in the middle of the lip- 

 varix, the spire terraced, lower half conic. Sculpture of slightly 

 (;urved obliquely longitudinal ribs. 11 on the last whorl, the last one, 

 behind the lip, much larger. These are crossed by spaced spiral 

 threads, with smaller threads between them, the intervals still more 

 finely striate spirally. Whorls 5 (the embryonic ones broken off), 

 strongly angular near the middle, flattened and sloping above the 

 angle, contracting below it; the last whorl similarly angular, convex 

 below the angle, contracted near the base. Aperture oblong, the 

 columellar margin concave above the middle. Outer lip thick, with 

 a moderately deep rounded sinus above; smooth within. 



Length 4.7, diam. 2 mm. 



Kamakura, Sagami. Type No. 70,940, A. N. S. P. No. 71 ,025, from 

 Japan, \\dthout exact locality, is the same species. 

 Mangilia cinnamomea peraffinis n. subsp. PI. II, fig.?. 12, I2a. 



Shell stoutly fusiform, gloss}^, purple-brown, becoming flesh-colored 

 at the anterior end, with a broad white band at the periphery, and 

 three indistinct, equally spaced whitish bands on the sloping surface 

 below it. Sculpture of longitudinal ribs about half as wide as the 

 concave intervals and 9 in number on the last whorl. Whorls 7, 

 those of the spire subangular in the middle, the first two whorls having 

 delicate widely spaced riblets. The last whorl is widest above but 

 not angular, and tapers regularly downward. The aperture is rather 

 narrow, l^lunt at both ends. The outer lip is slighth* retracted above 

 and below, and has about 9 small teeth within, those in the middle 

 rather indistinct. The columella has about S slightly larger short 

 transverse wrinkles. 



Length 7, diam. 3 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85.952, A. N. S. P., from No. 1.519 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This pretty Ci/thara corresponds fairly well with M. cinnamomea 

 Hinds^ except in color. It differs from M. planilabrum Reeve- in having 

 no angular projection of the lip above. 

 Mangilia (Cythara) hirasei n. sp. PI. II, figs. 13, 13a. 



Shell irregularly biconic, resembling M. decussata Pse. and delacour- 

 iana Cr. in shape; thick and solid; whitish, indistinctly marked with 

 about 4 yellowish spots on the front slope of each rib, and correspond- 

 ing brown spots on the lip-varix, and with a band composed of 4 to 6 



1 Zool. Voy. "Sulphur;' PI. 9, fig. 1. 

 - Conch. Icon., Mangelia, PI. 6, fig. 43. 




1904.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



purple-brown lines below the suture. Sculpture of longitudinal 

 rounded ribs parted by wider conca^^e intervals, and 10 or 11 in niun- 

 ber on the last whorl. The last rib is much larger and forms the 

 lip-varix. About 30 spiral threads, on the last whorl, cross the ribs 

 and intervals, sometimes with minor threads between them. The 

 spaces between these threads are evenly granulose by the decussation 

 of growth-lines and spiral striae, there being about four spiral series 

 of granules in each interval. Whorls 7+, the first 2\ smooth and 

 romided, the rest subangular in the middle, the last whorl shouldered 

 above, the shoulder rounded. Aperture narrow. Outer lip nearly 

 straight, with about 8 white teeth within; columella white, with four 

 or five small entering folds, increased to S or 10 at the margin, and 

 with several on the parietal wall. 



Length S, diam. 3.6 mm. 



Length 7, diam. 3 mm. 



Hirado. Hizen. Types No. 85,975, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,516 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species differs from ill. decussata and dciacouriana in its minute 

 sculpture of regular, squarish granules. 



Clathurella chichijimana n. sp. PI. I, figs. 7, 7a, 76. 



Shell small, solid, fusiform, gray- white with five black-brown and 

 the same number of white longitudinal stripes on the ribs, sometimes 

 continuous, sometimes dislocated. Sculpture of 10 strong longitudi- 

 nal ribs crossed by spiral threads which swell into tubercles on the 

 ribs, and are 9 or 10 in number on the last whorl. Whorls 7, the first 

 2h yellow, rounded, forming a trochiform protoconch, sculptured with 

 vertical riblets decussated by delicate, obliquely forward-descending 

 strise. The junction of the protoconch and the sculptured shell is 

 very obliciue and sharply defined. 



Aperture narrow, with a deep sinus above. Outer lip with four 

 small teeth within. 



Length 4, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Chichijima. Ogasawara. Types No. 86,127, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,439 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species of the group of i^. tincta is closely related to C. maculosa 

 Pse., but differs in having the spirals conspicuously swollen where they 

 cross the ribs. C. dichroma Sturany is very similar, but whether it 

 agrees in minor details cannot be known from the brief description, 

 Clathurella centrosa n. sp. PI. I, figs. 6, 6a. 



Shell small, fusiform, solid, white with a series of brown spots below 

 the suture on alternate ribs, and a brown band on the base. Sculpture 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



of numerous longitudinal ribs slightly narrower than their intervals, 

 and about 13 in number on the last whorl. These are crossed by 

 spiral cords, narrower than their intervals, of which there are 6 on the 

 last whorl, followed by a costate space, as though a cord had been 

 omitted, and then 4 more l^eaded, oblique cords on the narrow, lower 

 part of the whorl. Apex broken off, 4h whorls remaining, the last 

 with a thick varix behind the outer lip. Aperture narrow with two 

 low teeth within the outer lip; anal sinus deep and rounded. 



Length 4, diam. 1.9 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types No. 86.125. A. X. S. P., from No. 

 1,384 of ^Ir. Hirase's collection. 



Clathurella lischkeana n. sp. PI. II, figs. 14, 14a. 



Shell turrite with rather Avide spire, solid and strong, orange-colored, 

 with a black band below the suture terminating behind the lip-varix. 

 and an ill-defined brown band below the periphery. There is also a 

 black spot on each side of both the anal and the siphonal sinus. Sculp- 

 ture of strong, rounded longitudinal ribs about as wide as their con- 

 cave intervals, strongest on the periphery and above, diminishing 

 rapidly on the contracting base, and 9 in number on the last whorl, 

 the last one much higher, more prominent and longer below, forming 

 the lip-varix. Rather coarse spiral cords pass over these ribs and 

 their intervals, 4 or 5 of them visible on the penultimate whorl. 

 Wliorls about 6 besides the nucleus, which is broken from the speci- 

 mens before me. They are convex and separated by a deep suture. 

 Aperture small, widest in the middle, with a deep rounded sinus above, 

 which is cut into the thick liiD-^'arix a short distance below the suture. 

 The outer lip has a large black-brown spot within below the sinus and 

 another near the base, and there are several (usually 3) low teeth 

 within. 



Length 5.8, diam 2.5 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types No. 85,957, A. N. S. P.. from No. 

 1,388 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This little orange-and-black species resembles Reeve's figure of his 

 Pleurotoma nassoides, but it is only half the size of that, and is a con- 

 spicuously thick and solid shell, not, ''thin as though pellucid" or 

 "semitransparent,"' as Reeve states of his nassoides. 



MITRID^. 



Mitra Mrasei n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 21, 2la. 



Shell thick-fusiform, solid, lusterless, or with two broad spiral 

 bands and some longitudinal streaks of rose, the paler ground-color 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



showing only in an ill-defined median band and some pale streaks. 

 Sculpture of narrow spiral ridges parted by wider intervals, and alter- 

 nately smaller, the penultimate whorl with about 5 such primary 

 spirals, last whorl with about 17 primary or larger and an equal number 

 of smaller spirals (counted on the outer lip from suture to channel). 

 There are also some much finer spiral threads. Longitudinal sculp- 

 ture of rather wide-spaced grooves, cutting the spirals and intervals. 

 The larger spiral ridges are marked with a stippled or articulated line 

 of brown. Embryonic whorls wanting; subsequent whorls 7, convex, 

 the last tapering to the base. Aperture narrow, smooth inside; 

 columellar side nearly straight, with 5 plaits. 



Length 27, diam. 11 mm.; length of aperture 17 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 85,994, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 902 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species may be closely related to Mitra helvacea Phil. (Zeitschr. 

 /. Malak., 1851, p. 84), but that species has not been identified or 

 figured in more than half a century since its pubhcation, and the 

 description is not conclusive. M. pretiosa is a somewhat similar spe- 

 cies with a much larger spire. M. rufilirata A. and E,., Zool. "Scmia- 

 rang," Moll., p. 26, PI. 10, fig. 26, is also very closely related, but it 

 differs, apparently, in the more finely sculptured intervals between 

 the spiral cords. 

 Thala ogasawarana n. sp. PI. Ill, fig. 22. 



Shell very small, slender and fusiform, brown with a series of ill- 

 defined whitish spots at the periphery. Surface evenly cancellate, there 

 being about 6 spirals on the penultimate, 14 on the last whorl, crossed by 

 longitudinals of the same size and spacing; the lower 4 spirals nearly 

 continuous. Whorls 5^; sutiu-e rather superficial, rising a little, near 

 the aperture. Aperture about half the total length, narrow throughout 

 but sHghtly wider above. Outer lip thick, finely denticulate within, 

 with a shght sinus above. Columella with 4 strong, transverse plaits. 



Length 6, diam. 2 mm., aperture 3 mm. long. 



Chichijima, Ogasawara. Types Xo. 86,000, A. X. S. P.. from Xo. 

 1,436 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Few of the species of this genus have been adequately described 

 or illustrated. T. exilis (Rve.) seems related to this species. It is 

 more tapering anteriorly and "pale violet-purple." 



COLUMBELLID^. 

 Columbella turturina borealis n. subsp. 



Smaller and less inflated than typical turturina Lam., and with the 

 aperture narrower. Yellowish-chestnut-brown, with some bands of 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



white dots, and with ahernate snowy and dark-brown spots below the 

 suture, the former raised into low nodules in places. Base spirally 

 striate. Lips lilac-tinted, the outer lip with about 8 tubercles within. 

 Columella with the usual two folds, and a row of small tubercles. 



Length 7, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Length 6.5, diam. 3.8 mm, 



Hacliijojima, Izu. Types No. 86,002, A. X. S. P., from No. 1,391 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



C. deshayesii Crosse, C. palumbina Gld. and C. sandwichensis Pse., 

 probably all one species, are larger than the aboA'e race, and more striate 

 on the back, 

 Columbella albinodulosa var. ogasawarana n. subsp. PI. Ill, fig. 23. 



Shell [fusiform, solid, gray-white, closely lineolate vertically with 

 brown, the lines irregular, and interrupted by two spiral belts of irregu- 

 lar brown and snowy dots and fretwork, and with two transverse chest- 

 nut spots or short bands upon the terminal varix; the brown lines 

 sometimes partially coalescent, and the pattern interrupted in some 

 specimens by a few broad snowy stripes. .Some of the whorls of the 

 spire are usually weakly nodulose below the suture, the nodules white. 

 Whorls about 9, nearly fiat, the last slightly convex, contracted below, 

 and ver};- weakly striated spirally on and near the short siphonal 

 fasciole; expanded in a low rounded varix behind the outer lip. 

 Aperture white, toothed within, there being about 7 teeth within the 

 outer lip, 4 or 5 on the columellar margin, with a low, oVjtuse fold within. 



Length 8.7, diam. 3.3 mm.; length of aperture 4 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types No. 86,003, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,468 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form differs from C. cdbiJ^oduJoso as figured by Reeve^ and by 

 Fischer* in coloration, and in lacking spiral striation on the lower part 

 of the body-whorl. It is also a smaller form, and very likely will 

 prove to be specificalty distinct. 



C. albinodulosa seems, from the figures, to approach some forms of 

 C. varians Sowb. 

 Columbella liocyma n. sp. PI. Ill, fig. 24. 



Shell obesely fusiform, rather thin, rose-red with snow-white dots at 

 rather wide intervals below the suture on the spire, and a whitish band 

 there on the last whorl, where there are also several white dots along 

 the border of the siphonal fasciole, which is dark brown tesselated with 

 white. Sculpture of numerous smooth, rounded longitudinal ribs a 



3 Conch. Icon., PI. 23, fig. 138. 



* Journ. de Conchjl., 19U1, p. 101, figs. 3-G. 




1904 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



little wider than their intervals, the contracted base and fascicle spirally 

 lirate. Whorls 6-7, convex, the last convex below the suture and 

 peripherally, contracted below, the longitudinal ribs absent on its 

 last half, which is smooth except for a small rounded varix behind the 

 hp, marked with a large white spot above and another in the middle. 

 Both lips are dentate within, the outer margin with about 8 teeth, 

 the upper ones, in the middle of the lip, stronger; inner lip with five 

 weak teeth. Columella with one deeph^ placed basal fold. 



Length 5, diam. 2.6 mm. 



Length 5.7, diam. 2.8 mm. 



Types No. 85,961, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 1,392 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



A beautiful rose-colored, smooth-waved little species. 



Columbella somnium n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 28, 29. 



Shell stoutly fusiform, solid and strong, variously colored: (1) pink, 

 sprinkled with white dots, with a white band maculate with brown 

 below the suture, and a peripheral line of white dots, the swollen 

 lip-varix w'hite with several brown spots, or (2) white with longitudinal 

 ragged brown markings, mingled with a clear gray reticulation on the 

 back of the last whorl. Surface glossy and nearly smooth, there being 

 a few very low and inconspicuous nodules below the suture on the 

 back of the last whorl, and 2 or 3 spiral cords above the short, convex 

 siphonal fasciole, which is spirally coarsely striate. Spire with slightly 

 convex lateral outlines; apex obtuse. Whorls 7, but slightly convex, 

 the last broadly gibbous, varixed behind the outer lip. Aperture 

 half the shell's length, the outer lip straight, hlac-tinted, with 8 teeth 

 within, columella with a single broad, low, deeply placed fold, and a 

 series of 8 teeth at the edge, which is lilac-tinted and distinct but not 

 elevated. 



Length 11.7 to 12.7, diam. 5 mm. 



Yakujima, Osimii. Types No. 86,129, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,424 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This beautiful species resembles C. dunkeri Try on, but differs in the 

 straightened outer lip, heavier varix and narrower mouth with stronger 

 teeth. 



Columbella hahajimana n. sp. PI. Ill, fig. 25. 



Shell very minute, obesely fusiform, moderately solid, yellowish 

 marked with some faint angular brown lines or with wiiite belts at 

 suture, periphery and base, and marked with angular brown lines, and 

 a row of oblong spots above the middle. Sculpture of many close, 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



small longitudinal folds which do not extend below the periphery, 

 the narrow part of the base spirally striated. Aperture white, about 

 half the length of the shell, narrow and sinuous, the outer lip toothed 

 within, the columellar lip very minutely so. 



Length 2.8, diam. 1.3 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types No. 85,960, A. X. S. P., from No. 

 1,387 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small Seminella reseml^lcs C. troglodytes Souv. and C. sinejisis 

 Sowb., but the longitudinal plication is finer than in either. C. sinensis 

 has been taken in Tokyo Bay. 

 Columljella divaricata n. sp. PI. Ill, fig. 26. 



Shell fusiform, rather thin, not glossy, light olive-brown, marked 

 with red-brown spiral lines ivhich slowly converge fonoard from above and 

 below, meeting in acute angles just below the periphery. About 5 of these 

 lines may be counted in any one place on the penultimate whorl. 

 Suture bordered below with a snow-ivhite band which ascends the spire 

 Surface smooth except on the contracted base which is spirally hrate. 

 Whorls about 6, nearly flat, the last without noticeable varix behind the 

 acute lip. Aperture narrow and long, not dentate within, the colu- 

 mella only slightly concave. 



Length 6, diam. 2 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,972, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,411 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This beautiful species is colored somewhat like C. digglesi Braz., 

 which in other respects is totally unlike. I know of no related form. 



MURIOID^. 



Coralliophila Jeffreys! var. hiradoensis nov. PI. Ill, fig. 27. 



The shell in this form is fusiform, with the aperture noticeably longer 

 than the spire. There are 7 or 8 strong folds on the last whorl, most 

 prominent at the periphery. The w^hole surface is closely lirate 

 spirally, the cords densely roughened with suberect scales. There are 



17 primary cords on the last whorl above the prominent siphonal fas- 

 cicle, not counting 4 or 5 smaller ones interpolated in the subperipheral 

 region. The aperture is white within, with a dark-brown marginal 

 border which is deeply sulcate. There are a few acute cords making 

 the throat sulcate. 



Length 29, diam. 15.5 mm. ; length of aperture 16.5 mm. 

 Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,981, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,407 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In C. jeffreysi Smith the aperture is smaller. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



Ocinebra monoptera n. sp. PI. IV, figs. 32, 32a. 



Shell small, solid lusterless, ashy-gray. Sculpture of numerous 

 small longitudinal folds, about 12 on the penultimate whorl, becoming 

 obsolete below the periphery on the last whorl, crossed by numerous 

 unequal, scaly spiral cords, about 20 on the last whorl. Whorls 

 6, the first rounded, forming a smooth mammillar protoconch, the 

 rest angular in the middle, the last angular peripherally, flat and 

 sloping above, convex below the angle, contracted downwards; ex- 

 panding behind the lip in a very broad wing-like varix, triangular in 

 section. Aperture oval, the outer lip built forward in a thin rim, and 

 with two low fold-like teeth within. Anterior canal closed, tubular. 



Length 12.5, diam. 7.2 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 86,121. A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1,522 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar little species resembles the larger 0. nassoides Reeve,^ 

 but the wing is wide below, not notched there, and the longitudinal 

 ribs are weaker. 0. japonica Dkr. is a much larger and multivaricose 

 shell, but seems to be related to this. Reeve's Triton nassoides has 

 been referred to Nassaria, but it has little resemblance to the type of 

 that genus. 



Purpura tosana n. sp. PI. Ill, fig. 30. 



Shell small, imperforate, fusiform, solid, gray-white with an inter- 

 rupted black-brown band below the suture, another below the periphery 

 and a less distinct one at the base. Sculpture of numerous longitudinal 

 rounded folds or waves, many of them followed by a raised line marking 

 a former peristome. These folds are more distinct on the spire than 

 on the last whorl, w^here there are 10 to 15 of them. The folds are 

 crossed by numerous strong, rounded spiral cords, which are often 

 weakly striate in the same direction, are wider than their deep intervals, 

 and pass equally over folds and valleys. There are about 10 of these 

 spiral cords on the last whorl, besides some small ones below the suture 

 and in the intervals of the large cords on the basal slope. The inter- 

 stices in well-preserved shells are delicately, closely lamellose. The 

 spire is rather slender and acute. There are about 7 whorls in perfect 

 shells, the first two forming a smooth, bulbous, shortly cylindric 

 nucleus. Subsequent whorls are somewhat concave below the suture, 

 then convex. The last whorl is inflated peripherally, contracted 

 below, with a plicate basal fasciole. The aperture is slightly more 

 than half the length of the shell, dark purplish-bro^Ti with light bands 



^ Conch. Icon., II, Triton, PI. 20, fig. 96. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



within. Outer lip whitish, beveled, and furnished with 3 to 6 small 

 tubercles within. Basal canal short and open. 



Length 14, diam. 7.3 to 7.7, length of aperture S mm. 



Kashiwajima, Tosa. Types No. 85.991, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 1.375 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small species, unusually slender for a Puiyura, seems to have 

 no near relatives in the Orient. 



Sistrum (Ricinula) morus var. borealis n. v. PI. III. fig. 31. 



Shell biconic-oblong, faintly pink-tinted white, the mouth lilac- 

 tinted. The whole shell is longitudinally costate, the ribs rounded, 

 as wide as the intervals, and continuous from whorl to whorl. These 

 are crossed by two strong ridges on the whorls of the spire, one immedi- 

 ately below, one just above the suture, rising into short spines or points 

 at the intersections. On the last whorl there are 4 or 5 prominent 

 spiral ridges, the first close to the suture, the next and most prominent 

 at the angular shoulder; all are spinose where they cross the longitudi- 

 nal ribs. Between these principal spirals there are spiral cords 

 throughout. The siphonal fasciole is prominent, leaving an umbilical 

 crevice. There are 5 teeth within the outer hp, the upper two large, 

 the others small. 



Length 14, diam. S.5 mm. 



Length 12.5, diam. 8 mm. 



Hachijojima, Izu. Types No. S5.9S2, from No. 1,401 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



The biconic form, pale color and rough sculptm'e differentiate this 

 from all forms of the polymorphic morus group known to me; and it 

 Avill probably prove to be constantly distinct enough for specific rank, 

 though in view of the variability of R. morus I have considered this 

 northern form to be a sulDspecies of the tropical morus. 



FUSIDJE. 

 Tusus suboblitus n. sp. PI. I, fig. -5. 



Shell fusiform, widest in the middle, whitish with a brown band 

 below the suture and another below the periphery, the anterior canal 

 in part brown; there are also some indistinct l^rown longitudinal 

 streaks. Sculpture of numerous longitudinal folds, strongest on the 

 convexity of each whorl, disappearing on the base and near the suture, 

 12 in number on the last whorl. Each rib bears about six compressed 

 tubercles, as though crossed by coarse spiral cords, which are reduced to 

 narrow threads in the intervals, but are prominent on the ribs. The 

 whole surface has a finer sculpture of spaced spiral threads with 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



numerous unequal spiral striae between them, all slightly crenulated 

 by the close, fine gro'v\i:h-stri8e. The high and rather slender spire 

 is composed of 6 verj' convex whorls, the apical ones being broken off 

 in the type specimen. The suture is deeply constricting. The last 

 whorl is convex, rapidly contracting below, and produced in a long, 

 slender and nearly straight anterior canal. Aperture ovate, hardly 

 longer than the narrow canal at the base. The outer lip is thin, and 

 retracted in a broad shallow posterior sinus. Length 36.5. diam. 12.5 

 mm. ; length of aperture with anterior canal 20 mm. 



Japan, exact locality unknown. Type No. 70,941, A. X. S. P. 



This peculiar Fusoid species has been in the collection of the Acad- 

 emy for a good many years, during which time I have not seen any- 

 thing much like it. It ma}' possibly belong to the Pleurotomidoe. 



BUCCINID^. 



Tritonidea tosana n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 33. 



Shell wide-fusiform, solid; brown, closely marked with many narrow 

 black bands. Sculpture of numerous small longitudinal folds, which 

 are nearly obsolete on the last whorl, disappear on its last third, and 

 elsewhere do not pass below the periphery. There are about 15 rather 

 acute, black primary spiral cords on the last whorl, the intervals 

 between them densely striated with similar l)ut smaller spirals of two 

 or three sizes. Whorls nearly 7, slightly convex, the last inflated in 

 the middle, contracted below. The convex, moderately prominent 

 siphonal fasciole is sculptured like the rest of the shell. Aperture 

 blue-white and indistinctly sulcate within, the throat smooth; pos- 

 teriorly it is acute and slightly channelled, there being a small callous 

 pad on the inner lip. Outer lip sulcate within, Ijevelled to an acute 

 edge, which is tessellated with black and yellowish. Columella concave 

 above, oblique and straight below, the white columellar callous showing 

 several inconspicuous transverse plicae near the edge. 



Length 22.5, diam. 12 mm. ; aperture 14 mm. long. 



Kashiwajima. Tosa. Types No. 85.990, A. N. S. P.. from No. 1.462 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is most nearly related to T. undulata Schepman, but 

 differs from that in the much smaller and more numerous longitudinal 

 folds. 

 Cyllene japonica n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 34. 



Shell fusiform; flesh-tinted, indistinctly marbled and mottled with 

 white and irregularly speckled with brown; vertically rather weakly 

 striate and spirally grooved, the grooves narrow, separated by flat in- 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



tervals. There are four or five grooves on the penultimate and next 

 earlier whorls, with a smooth space one-third or one-half the exposed 

 width of the whorl between the lowest groove and the suture. This 

 smooth area extends upon the front of the last whorl. The back of 

 the last whorl is grooved throughout, the grooves more widely spaced 

 in the peripheral region. The outer lip is swollen outside as usual, 

 and lirate within. The rounded, callous columella is closely obliquely 

 sulcate as usual. There are 5 whorls, the apical one smooth, obtuse 

 and rounded, the rest, fiat, parted by a channelled suture; the last 

 whorl is a little concave below the suture. 



Length 11.8, diam. 5.5 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Type No. 82,144, A. N. S. P. 



This species may be near the insufficiently described, unfigured 

 C. gibba A. Ad., but in the absence of measurements or adequate 

 description no comparison with that form is possible. It differs from 

 the other species in the absence of longitudinal ribs. In the young 

 stages the whorl is smooth on the median convexity, but spiral grooves 

 set in there on the last whorl. 



NASSID^. 

 Nassa semiplioata hiradoensis n. subsp. PL IV, figs. 35, 35a. 



Shell ovate-turreted, solid and thick, lusterless, variousl}^ colored : 

 (1) Yellow with the intervals betw^een the ribs black, the mouth and 

 outer lip banded with black; (2) dull blackish-brown, uniform or with 

 a yellow or white peripheral band, mouth banded ; (3) uniform cream- 

 tinted, the mouth white. Sculpture of strong, rounded longitudinal 

 folds as wide as their intervals, 11 or 12 in number on the last whorl, 

 the last one much larger, forming a prominent, rounded, swollen varix 

 behind the lip, usually preceded by a much smaller fold. Over the 

 folds and intervals run coarse spiral cords, rounded or flattened, as 

 wide as their intervals or wider, and either of even strength or weaker 

 in the valleys. On the last whorl there are 9 to 11 of these cords. 

 Some shells show a very minute and superficial spiral striation through- 

 out. Whorls about 7 (the apex broken), strongly convex, the last 

 rounded at the periphery, sloping below, with a moderately deep 

 basal sulcus. Aperture ovate; outer lip with 7 or 8 teeth within, the 

 lower 4 usually larger, the others small. Colimiella calloused, white, 

 with 3 small transverse wrinkles. A callous cord near the posterior 

 angle defines a small posterior sinus. 



T^ength 16, diam. 8.5 mm. ; length of aperture 7 mm. 



Length 15.5, diam. 8 mm.; length of aperture 7 mm. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,999, A. N. S. V., from No. 8436 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is smaller than N. semiplicata and has stronger spiral cords 

 throughout. It is related to N . incrassata and N. festiva. 



Another form of the same species, from the same locality, is smaller, 

 with more numerous, weaker folds, about 15 on the last whorl, and 9 

 spiral cords. 



Length 13, diam. 6.8 mm. 



Length 12, diam. 6 mm. 



At Fukura, Awaji, there is another form referable to hiradoensis, but 

 more elongate, with smaller folds, 15-17 on the last whorl, or obsolete 

 on its later half, the teeth within the lip smaller. The shell is of a dull 

 dirty yellow tint externally, the mouth yellowish-brown or chestnut- 

 tinted within. 



Length 19, diam. 9 mm.; aperture 8 mm. long. 



This race looks a good deal like some forms of A^. mendica Gld. 

 The operculum is smooth-edged. 



Nassa semiplicata Mzenensis n. subsp. PI. IV, figs. 36, 36a. 



Much smaller than hiradoensis, with the folds small and close, but 

 not strong on the spire, weak or obsolete on the last whorl. There are 

 weak spirals above and below on the last whorl, obsolete in the periph- 

 eral region. Whorls about 7, of which the first H are smooth, forming 

 " bulbous, elevated protoconch. Teeth within the outer lip weak. 

 Color purple-black, reddish-brown or olive, sometimes with a light 

 band. 



Length 10 to 11, diam. 5 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,996, A. N. 8. P., from No. 843c of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form differs from N. teretiuscida A. Ad. by its spiral sculpture. 



AQUILLIDyE. 



Tritonidce and Tritoniidce of authors. 



Lampusidce R. B. Newton, Cat. Brit. Eoc. and Oligoc. Moll. Edw. Coll., 



p. 145 (1891). 

 Lotoriidci' Harris, Catal. Tert. Moll., I, Australasian, p. 185 (1897). Kesteven, 



Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales for 1902, p. 443. 

 SeptidcE Dall and Simpson, Moll. Porto Rico, p. 416 (1902); Nautilus, 



XVII, p. 55 (September, 1903). 



The preoccupation of the name Triton resulting in a search for other 

 names available for the molluscan group has led to some diversity in 

 modern usage. The earliest available name for the group, so far as I 

 have been able to learn, is Aquillus of Montfort. This name, as John- 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jan., 



son has pointed out,® precedes Lotorium in the Conchyliologie Sys- 

 tematique. Its resemblance to Aquila is no bar to acceptance because 

 the Latin word aquillus or aquilusj signifying dark or water-colored, 

 is different from aquila. an eagle. In this connection it may be noted 

 that Montfort used "Avatery" names for his other genera of Tritons.^ 

 The genera of AquiUuJcc may therefore stand thus: 



I. — Aquillus Montf., Conch. Syst., II. 578. Type cutaceus L. 



(Includes the sections Lampusia Schum, 1817, type pilearis L.; 

 Lotoriimi Monti., 1810, type L. Iotor = femoralis L.; Mono- 

 plex Peny, 1811. type cynocephalus Lam.) 

 Subgenus Septa Perry, 1811. Type S. ruhicunda Perry (=aus- 



tralis Lam.). 

 (Includes Triton Montf. and Tritonium Cuv.) 

 II. — Distortrix Link, 1807. {Distorsio auct.) 

 III. — Priene H. and A. Ad. 



IV. — Cohihraria, Schimi.. 1817. Type maculosa Gmel. {Epidromus 

 Klein of authors). 

 Subg. Cmnia. Bivona, 1838. type lanccolata ]\Ike. 

 V. — Apollon Montf., 1810 { + Gyrina Schum., 1817). 

 VI. — Gyrineum Link, 1807. 



(Including Biplex Perry, Buffo Montf., Bufonaria and Lampas 

 Schum., etc., some of which are available for subgeneric 

 and sectional divisions.) 



Some authors recognize mo]-e than one genus among the forms 

 referred above to AquiUvs, but when a wide range of species is exam- 

 ined, the subgenera seem to merge pretty thoroughly together. Indeed 

 Septa is n.ot very distinct, except in the typical species. This subject 

 has been ably discussed l^y Kesteven, with whose conclusions I fully 

 agree. It seems to me that he has shown conclusively the untenability 

 of Ranularia, Lampusia, Lotorium, etc., as generic divisions. Colu- 

 braria stands apart from all the other genera, and the examination of 

 its dentition is a desideratum. It may possibly be Rhachiglossate. 

 The subgenus Cumia includes small [Mediterranean and Antillean 

 species. A series of Antillean and Pacific species referred to this 



« Nautilus, XVII, p. 24 (June, 1903). 



' Both spellings are given in dictionaries consulted. The etymology suggested 

 by Herrmannsen is obscure and more than doubtful. 



* Harris (t. c, p. 186) rejects Aquillus because (1) its etymology is uncertain, and 

 (2) if emended sufficiently it can be made identical with Aquila Brisson. It seems 

 scarcely necessary to reply that uncertain etymology is not usually considered 

 ground for rejection of a name, and no authorization of such a course can be found 

 in the British Association or any later code. And to the second objection it 

 may be urged that l)y a similar process of emendation about half the names in 

 use might be changed. Harris is wide of the mark in citing Mure.T lotorium as 

 the type of Lotorium Montf. It is rather hard to see how such a mistake could 

 be made. Montfort's engraving is a characteristic representation of the common 

 Murex fern oralis L. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



division by Trvon and others, of which decapitatus Reeve and hracteattis 

 Hinds are typical, belongs to the Rhachiglossa, as Mr. A'anatta and 

 the writer will elsewhere show. ]\Ir. Kesteven has shown that Triton 

 speciosum Angas is a Trophon. 



Aquillus labiosus (Wood). 



Murex labiosus "Wood, Index Testae. Suppl., p. 15, PI. 5,^fig. ISo (1828). 



Triton labiosus of authors. 

 Triton exaratum Reeve, Lischke, Jap. Meeres-Conch., II, p. 35; III, p. 30, 



PI. 2, figs. 15-17. Not of Reeve! 

 Tritonium excavatum Reeve, Pilsbry, Catal. Mar. Moll. Jap., p. 47. 



Hirado, Hizen (Hirase, No. 911). 



This species has been erroneously described and figured as T. 

 exaratum Reeve, an Australian form, which I have determined by com- 

 parison of numerous Australian specimens to be distinct from the 

 Japanese species. Aquillus exaratus (Rve.) has a much more highly 

 conic nucleus with more whorls; the postnepionic whorls have a 

 flatter shoulder, and coarser secondary spiral striation. It should be 

 deleted from the Japanese list. 



There is no trustworth}' or authentic West Indian record for Aquillus 

 labiosus. The specimens so marked which I have seen are from shell 

 dealers, who, like many others, have not always been careful about 

 localities. 



NATICID^. 



Folinices sagamiensis n. sp. PI. IV, figs. 37, 37a. 



Shell obliquely hemispherical, solid and heavy, smooth; chestnut- 

 brown, with the spire, a band below the suture, and an area at the base, 

 the umbilicus and aperture white. The spire is very small, short and 

 low, though slightly conic. Whorls 5, the last one very rapidly enlarg- 

 ing, globose, narrowly roimded at the base, where it curves into the 

 umbilicus. The suture is superficial. The very oblique aperture is 

 half round and pure white, the columellar side straight. The posterior 

 angle is filled with a very heavy convex callous. At the middle of the 

 columellar margin a large, rounded, flat-topped lobe projects into the 

 umbilicus, terminating a very large spiral cord which nearh' fills the 

 axial cavity, leaving a crescentic umbilical furrow, overhung on the 

 convex arc by a heavy rounded rib which forms the outer margin of the 

 umbihcus. 



Leng-th 32.5, diam. 35 mm. 



Hayama, a place on Sagami Bay, about 4 miles from Kamakura. 

 Type No. 85,956, A. N. S. P., collected by Miss A. C. Hartshorne. 



This is the species I listed as a form of P.powisianusxar. draparnaudii 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Recluz, in the Catal. Mar. Moll. Jap., p. 72. having before me then a 

 single specimen obtained by Mr. Frederick Stearns, now in his collec- 

 tion in Detroit. I at that time noted the differences between the speci- 

 men and .V. draparnaudii Reel., but thought the former might be 

 abnormal. The large size of the umbilical lobe and the strong cord 

 around the umbilical crescent readily distinguish P. sagamiensis from 

 draparnaudii, effusa Swains., powisianus Reel., cumingianus Reel, and 

 other species of that group. 



CALYPTR^ID^. 

 Ergaea walshi (' Herm.' Rve.). 



This name Ergcea was originally proposed for a subgenus of Crepidula 

 (Crypta), comprising the species C. plana Ads. and Rve. (not Say) and 

 C. ivalshi 'Herm.' Rve. It was J. E. Gray in 1867 who raised the 

 group to. generic rank, explained its morphology, and showed that it 

 is related to Calyptrwa. Gray's half-contemptuous estimate of the 

 inability of his conchological contemporaries to appreciate morpho- 

 logical problems, expressed in his paper of '67,^ has been amply justified 

 by the history of this genus; for in the latest works it still remains 

 included in Crepidula.^° Having reached the same conclusion inde- 

 pendently before reading Gray's paper, it was with some surprise that 

 I found that he had exposed the facts in the case. 



Ergcea is the end of a line of differentiation from Cahjptra:a, parallel 

 in its evolution to that phjdum of Crepidida represented by the flat 

 white slipper-limpets of the group of Crepidula crepidula Linne (C. un- 

 guiformis Lam.) and C. plana Say. The two groups, arising from 

 diverse ancestors, have reached a superficially similar appearance, 

 by adaptation to growing inside other shells. 



Ergcea walshi ('Herm.' Rve.) has been taken by Mr. Hirase at 

 Fukura, Awaji Island (No. 1,443 of Hirase's register), and by Miss 

 Hartshorne at Hay am a, on Sagami Bay. 



Amalthea conica Schum. Essai, p. ISl, PI. 21, f. 4(1817). 



Patella cassida Dillwj'n, Catal. II, p. 1,037 (1817). 



Hippony.t australis Lam., Quov and Gaim., Vov. Astrolabe, III, p. 434, 

 PI. 72, figs. 25-34 (1834). Not Patella australis Lamarck. 



This abundant and widespread species has been called Hipponi/x 

 australis by writers on the Japanese fauna. Hedley has recentl}" 

 shown that the Lamarckian species is a South Australian Capuliis, a 



* Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1867, p. 740. 



i»Tryon, Manual of Conchology, VIII, p. 130 (1SS6); Fischer, Majiu el de Co n- 

 chyliologie, p. 758 (1885). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



conchision borne out by the specimens before me. Mr. Hirase has 

 sent Amalthea conica from Riiikiu, Hirado, Hizen, and Fukm-a, Awaji. 

 I am unable to see any differences between the shells of this species 

 from South Australia. Japan. Mauritius, etc. Though individually 

 variable, there seems to have been no racial differentiation. Tryon 

 adds the following names to the synonymy of this species : Hipponyx 

 acuhis and sitturalis Q. and G.. cornucopuca Hutton, orientalis Dufo. 



OERITBIID^. 

 Cerithium trailli kikaiensis n. subsp. PI. IV, fig. 3S. 



Shell with the lateral outlines nearly straight alDOve, convex in the 

 lower half; cream-white, sparsely dotted with brownish-yellow on the 

 spiral threads, and with beads of dull violet sparsely and irregularly 

 scattered along the spiral cords. 



Sculpture of three rather weakly tul^erculate spiral cords on each of 

 the intermediate whorls of the spire, the upper one close to the suture, 

 the intervals between them spirally striate, there being about 4 threads 

 in each interval, the median one largest. The upper whorls have alter- 

 nate cords and threads, crossed by close longitudinal waves. On the 

 last whorl there are about 8 principal tuberculate cords, the intervals 

 finely, unevenly striate. The later whorls have swollen varices at 

 intervals of aliout half a whorl, but they become closer above, about 

 one-third of a volution apart. Whorls about 10. The ajjerture is 

 ovate, with a sinus above defined by a cord on the inner lip. The outer 

 lip is strengthened by a small varix, and is sulcate within, there being 

 usually a pair of lirae between the terminations of two spiral cords of 

 the exterior. The throat is smooth and white, showing some blackish 

 dots through. The basal channel is very short and oblique. The inner 

 lip is coated with a rather thick deposit of a deep purple color. 



Length 15, diam. 7 nmi. 



Kikaiga-shima, Osumi. Types No. 86,001, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,503 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Compared with C. trailli Sowb. from Singapore, this is a very much 

 smaller form, paler, with more numerous varices and a purple columella. 



Cerithium subscalatum n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 39. 



Shell small, turrite; brown, the spiral cords paler, the intervals 

 darker. Sculpture of longitudinal waves or folds, about 12 on the 

 penultimate whorl, and with one rounded varix on the last whorl oppo- 

 site the aperture. The folds do not extend below the periphery on 

 the last whorl, where they are also much weaker. Spiral sculpture 

 of many crowded, smooth cords, three of which are larger, two near 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the periphery and one at the middle of the base. There are three 

 smaller cords between the upper and middle enlarged ones, and five 

 between the middle and the basal cord, which is largest of all. 

 Sometimes only the median and lower cords are enlarged. AVhorls 

 about 9, those of the spire angular at the lower third. Aperture ovate 

 with a short, deep anterior canal, the outer lip strengthened by a 

 moderately strong, rather narrow varix. 



Length 7.5, diam. 3.2 mm. , 



Length 8.3, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types Xo. 86,130. A. X. S. P., from Xo. 

 1,466 of ]\Ir. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar little Cerite is very closely related to Bittluin oosimense 

 Watson, but differs by the number of whorls and the details of the 

 spiral sculpture, as may be seen on comparison Avith Watson's excellent 

 description and figure. It may perhaps be identical Avith Bitthim 

 scalatum Dimker. That species has been described too briefly to 

 decide with any certainty, and it has not been figured. The species 

 before me, however, is a true Cerithium, not a Bittium. 



RISSOID^. 

 Rissoa tokyoensis n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 40. 



Shell very small, regularly tapering from the last whorl, bright chest- 

 nut colored, the very thick peristome white. Sculpture of 8 spiral 

 cords on the last whorl, the upper four rather coarsely regularly tuber- 

 culate, those below less so, the lower two smooth. The spire and upper 

 portion of the last w^horl are indistincth' plicate longitudinally, the 

 tubercles on the spirals being at the points of intersection. W^horls 5, 

 convex, the first one smooth, the last whorl with a heavy white varix 

 behind the lip. Aperture oval, the outer lip sinuous, advanced belov.-. 



Length 2.3. diam. 1.2 mm. 



Tokyo Harbor. Types Xo. 70,910, A. X. S. P. 



Rissoa ogasawarana n. sp. PI. IV, fig. 41. 



Shell ovate, with a rather short, straightly conic spire. Cream- 

 white, with some indistinct brown spots below the suture. Sculpture 

 of rather small close longitudinal riblets, which on the last w'horl do 

 not pass below the periphery. These are crossed by about 11 spiral 

 cords on the last whorl. There are about 5 or bh slightly convex 

 whorls, the last one with a broad rounded but rather low varix a short 

 distance behind the thin outer lip. Aperture ovate, entire below. 



Length 2.2, diam. 1.2 mm. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types Xo. So, 951, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 

 1,385 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Eissoina rex n. sp. PL IV, figs. 42, 42a. 



Shell solid, the lower two-thirds slowly tapering, somewhat cylindrie, 

 the upper third more rapidly tapering to an acute apex; not glossy; 

 white. Sculpture of regular longitudinal rounded ribs, as wide as 

 their intervals and about 19 in number on the penultimate whorl, and 

 not extending upon the base of the last one. These ribs are crossed 

 by numerous unequal fine spiral threads. AVhorls 10, moderately 

 convex, parted by a deeply impressed suture, the last whorl swollen 

 behind the outer lip. Aperture small, ovate, vertical, hardly chan- 

 nelled below. 



Length 14, diam. 4.8 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 85,949, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 753 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



This large Rissoina seems to be rather abundant. With the type 

 lot there was a specimen of a I'eddish-brown color with a small white 

 basal tract and a light band above. The ribs are more numerous, 

 25 on the penultimate whorl, and there arc 4 broad varices on the last 

 3 whorls, while the type has only 1 at the end of the last volution. The 

 shape is also less cylindrie than in the type. More material is needed 

 to determine the status of this form. 



Eissoina materinsulae n. sp. PI. V, figs. 43, 43a. 



Shell oblong-acuminate, the outlines of the spire convex ; solid, white. 

 Sculpture of many small straight, crowded, roimded,low longitudinal 

 riblets, the intervals transversely striate. The apex is wanting, about 

 6 whorls remaining. These are slightly convex and separated by a 

 shallow, linear suture. The last whorl is swollen into a wide roimded 

 varix behind the outer lip, the fine riblets of the rest of the surface 

 being developed also upon it. The aperture is semioval, the thick outer 

 lip a little advanced below; columellar margin, moderately concave, 

 truncate below b}' the shallow, rounded basal channel. 



Length 5, diam. 2 mm. 



Hahajima, Ogasawara. Types X^o. 85,976, A. X'. S. P., from X^o. 

 1,390a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Eissoina (Eissolina) laevicostulata n. sp. PI. V, fig? . 44, 44a. 



Shell narrowly ovate-acuminate, regularly tapering from the last 

 whorl, white, with a red-brown blush on the back of the last whorl, 

 moderately solid. Sculpture of about 20 rounded, obliquely longitudi- 

 nal, slightly sinuous ribs about as wide as the intervals, both ribs and 




28 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



intervals smooth. Whorls about S, moderately convex, the last with 

 a very strong, heavy varix behind the outer lip, and with a convex 

 siphonal fasciole at the base, bounded above by a groove and regularly 

 plicate, the ribs passing over it. Aperture semioval. the outer lip 

 thick and sinuous, columellar margin but slightly concave, a shallow 

 but distinct channel at its base in the basal margin. 



liCngth 4.8, diam. 2 mm. 



Kamakura, Sagami. Types No. 70,906, A. N. 8. P. It also occm's 

 at Hahajima, Ogasawara, No. 1,3906 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is related to R. costulata Dkr., but differs by its more num- 

 erous ribs. R. plicatula Gld., an unfigured species, also seems to be 

 related. 



Kissoina (Zebina) tridentata (Michaud). 



Rissoa tridentata Michaud, Descript. nouv. esp. Rissoa (p. 6) in Ann. Soc. 



Linn, de Lyon, I, 1836. 

 Rissoina curta Sowb., Schwartz, Monogr. Rissoina, p. 107 (1860). 

 R. bidentata Phil., Archiv. f. Naturg., 1845, p. 64 (^Friendly Is.). 

 R. eulimoides A. Ad., P. Z. S., 1851, p. 279 (Capul, Philippines). 

 Eidima dentiens Dkr., Malak. Bl., XVIII, 1871, p. 152 (Viti Is.). 

 Rissoa crassilabnnn Garr., Proc. Cal. Acad., I, 1857, p. 102 (Hilo). 

 Rissoina coronata Reel., Schwartz, Monogr. Rissoina (1860), p. 109 (Mauri 



tius) . 



Kikai-ga-shima, Osumi, typical specimens of this species, which has 

 not before been reported from the east coast of iVsia. The synonymy 

 as given by Tryon" requires some emendation in the light of the large 

 series of specimens now available for study. The following forms, 

 united with R. tridentata b}'' him, are, in my opinion, perfectly distinct 

 species : 



Rissoa semiglabrata A. Ad., P. Z. S., 1851, p. 279. 



Rissoa semiplicata Pse., P. Z. <S., 1862, p. 242 : Ainer. Jour, of Conch., 

 Ill, p. 295, PL 24, fig. 29. 



The former of these differs from all forms of tridentata in the more 

 acuminate spire and the sculpture. The latter, of which specimens 

 from Pease are before me, is a yQYj much smaller species, with more 

 of the spire plicate. I add to the synonymy of R. tridentata the Eidima 

 dentiens of Dunker, of which authentic specimens are before me. It 

 is absolutely identical with tridentata Mich. R. crassilabrum Garrett 

 is also a typical tridentata, with teeth, and 8 mm. long. 



Whether the toothless form coronata ' Reel.' Schwartz is varietally 

 separable is doubtful, but the series before me shows that toothless 

 individuals occur with normal tridentata. The size varies a good deal: 



Length 5.3, diam. 2.3 mm. (Schwartz, type of R. coronata). 



" Man. Conch., IX, p. 389. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Length 6. diam. 2.6 mm. (Schwartz, type of R. eidimoides). 



Length 6.5. diam. 2.S mm. (Schwartz, type of bickntata). 



Length 7. diam. 3.7 mm. (Hawaiian Islands specimen). 



Length 8. diam. 4 mm. (Michaud, R. tridentata). 



Length 8. diam. 4 mm. (Viti Islands specimen). 



Length 9, diam. 5 mm. (Viti Islands specimen). 



Length 10, diam. 5.3-5.7 mm. (Kikai-ga-shima specimens). 



Length 10.5, diam. 4.8 mm. (Viti Islands specimen). 



The sizes from 5.5 to 10.5 mm. long are represented by specimens 

 before me. Rarely there is a varix on the penultimate whorl. The 

 larger shells are generally somewhat distorted, and are then extremely 

 like Eulima. Indeed, the whole genus or subgenus Zebina is exces- 

 sively Eulimoid in structure of the shell, so much so as to suggest that 

 the Eulimidce may have had a Rissoinoid progenitor. Probably the 

 Gymnoglossa , even as restricted by Fischer, is not a natural group. 



To the distribution of R. tridentata indicated alcove should be added 

 the Red Sea localities given by Sturany^- in his valuable report on the 

 "Pola" gastropods. With the Japanese locality here recorded, this 

 gives the species an enormous range in the Indo-Pacific life-area. 



TURBONILLID^. 

 Turbonilla hiradoensis n. sp. PI. V, fig. 45. 



Shell very slender, the length 5 times the greatest diameter; glossy; 

 white, encircled by two brown lines, of which one is at the periphery of 

 the last whorl and ascends the spire a little below the middle of the 

 whorls, and the other revolves below the periphery of the last whorl, 

 its upper edge being barely visible above the suture of the preceding 

 whorls. Sculpture of nearly vertical, slightly arcuate rounded riblets, 

 as wide as their intervals, extending from suture to suture on the 

 spire, and on the last whorl they gradually decrease below the 

 periphery, becoming obsolete around the axis, where the base is 

 nearly smooth ; over all there is an excessively fine, minute, dense spiral 

 striation. On the last whorl there are 29 riblets. There are 12 convex 

 whorls in addition to the smooth, planorboid, upturned nuclear whorl; 

 sutures deeply impressed. 



Length 8.3, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,986, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,517 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



'^ "Gastropoden des Rothen Meeres" (p. 56), in Denkschr. K. Akad. Wissensch., 

 LXXIV, p. 264. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



This species differs from T. hicinda A. Ad. by the absence of spiral 

 lirae on the base. 



A variety may be called T. hiradoensis var. hadia. It is of a dark 

 reddish-brown or purplish-ljrown color throughout. The specimens 

 occurred with T. hiradoensis. 



Turbonilla (Cinguliua) terebra Dkr. Pi. V, fig. 46. 



Shell slender, its length four times the diameter: lateral outlines 

 straight; white; faintly marked with groTv-th-lines. Sculpture of 3 

 spiral grooves on each whorl, the spaces between them equal, the lowest 

 groove smaller than the others, a narrow space between it and the 

 suture. Last whorl with the third groove nearly peripheral, several 

 narrower grooves below it on the convex base. Whorls 11, besides 

 the upturned planorboid nucleus. They are moderately convex and 

 separated by deep sutures. 



Length 8, diam. 2 mm.; aperture 2 mm. long. 



Hirado, Hizen. No. 922& of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species tapers more rapidly than T. triarata, and the 3 spiral 

 grooves are parted by 2 equal spaces. The space above the upper 

 groove is more convex than the others. In immature shells the base 

 has numerous spiral engraved striae, closer near the axis, but in the 

 largest shells they become fainter. 



This species must be closely related to Cingulina subulata Clessin," 

 described from Macao; but the whorls are more convex, and there 

 are spiral grooves on the base of the last whorl, which in subulata is 

 said to be "nach unten gerundet, glatt." The spiral grooves are more 

 emphatic in T. spina C. and F., of New South Wales and South Ails- 

 tralia, and which has also been reported from Karachi by Melvill, 

 Proc. Zool. Soc, 1901. p. 395. 



The following species of the sul^genus Cingulina have been reported 

 from Japan : 



C. dngulata Dkr., Moll. Jap., p. 16. 



C. terebra Dkr., Moll. Jap., p. 16. 



C. circinata A. Ad., A7in. Mag., 1860, \T, p. 414. 



C. japonica Clessin, Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimidce, p. 223. 



None of them have been adequately described or figured. 

 Turbonilla (Cingulina) cingulata (Dkr.). PI. V, fig. 47. 



In this species there are three deep eciuidistant spiral furrows, some- 

 what narrower than the intervening cords, on each whorl. Of the four 

 cords, the upper three are equal, the lower one narrower. On the base 



^■'' Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimidce, p. 223. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



there are several spiral o:roo\'es, and some finer strite near the axis. A 

 well-grown specimen measures, length 10.5, diam. 2.5 mm. There are 

 about 13 postnepionic whorls. The shell figiu-ed is from Hirado, Hizen. 

 Dimker's type was from Deshima (near Nagasaki), also in southwestern 

 K\'ushu. 



This species is apparently close to C. circinata A. Ad., the type of 

 Cingulina, found at Awa-shima, which is known to me by Adams' brief 

 description onh". 

 Turbonilla (Cingulina) triarata n. sp. PL V, fig. 4S. 



vShell very slender and long, the leng-th about four times the greatest 

 diameter; lateral outlines straight. White, glossy, slightly marked 

 with growth-lines. Sculpture of three spiral grooves on each whorl, the 

 lowest one at the suture below, the other grooves defining three nearly 

 flat spaces, the upper one narrowest, lower widest. Last whorl with 

 the third groove at the periphery, the base convex, very minutely and 

 closely striate spirally. Whorls 13, besides the elevated planorboid 

 nucleus whi'.h stands on edge at the summit. Suture channelled. 



Length 0.5. diam. 2.3 mm.; length of aperture 2.1 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 85,977, A. X. S. P.. from Xo. 1.005 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form must stand near Cingulina japonica Clessin." but agrees 

 with neither the description nor figure. Clessin states that his species 

 has a single line running below the suture, the rest of the whorl being 

 smooth, but he figures two more spiral lines ; and the last whorl, which 

 he says is subangular below, the base smooth, is figiu-ed with 5 spiral 

 lines. The proportions, 11 x 1.9 mm., are more slender than T. tria- 

 rata. One becomes accustomed to such discrepancies in Clessin's 

 work. His ideals of descriptive zoology are not lofty. 



TURBINID^. 

 CoUonia rosa n. sp. PI. VI, fig. 53. 



Shell obliqueh' globose-turbinate. narrowly umbilicate, rose-red, 

 with two apical whorls yellow. Sculpture of somewhat unequal spiral 

 cords, about as wide as their intervals, and 25 to 27 in niunber on the 

 last whorl. Several of the cords, at unequal inter\'als. are slightly larger 

 than the others, and all are nearly smooth except near the suture and 

 umbilicus, where there are short radial folds. Spire short, conic. 

 Whorls about 4, convex. Aperture but slightly oblique, circular, white, 

 smooth and pearly within. Inner margin of the peristome thick and 

 white. A slightly sinuous cord ascends almost vertically into the 



'* Conchylien Cabinet, Eulimida, p. 223, PL 36, fig. 3. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



umbilicus, on the side opposite the aperture. The margin of the 

 umbiHcus is more or less distinctly crenulate. 



Alt. 5.5, diam. 6 mm. 



Tanabe, Kii. Types No. 85,992, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,457 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. Also from Tokyo Bay. 



In some of the specimens, especially those not ciuite mature, there is 

 some white mottling in the peripheral region, and a white area around 

 the umbilicus. The specimens from Tokyo Bay w^hich I provisionally 

 refer to this species want the subsutural and umbilical plication. 



PHASIANELLID^. 

 Phasianella tristis Pils. PI. VI, fig. 64. 



Nautilus, XVII, 69 (October, 1903). 



Rishiri, Kit ami. 



TROOHID^. 

 Trochus Mrasei n. sp. PI. V, figs. 52, 52a. 



Shell imperforate, pyramidal, with the outlines slightly convex below 

 and noticeably concave along the upper half of the spire; base flat. 

 White, with bold radial stripes of blood-red or purplish-red on the later 

 whorls, the spire ver}' minutely and copiously speckled with olive-green 

 and red, the latter color predominating on the spiral cords. Base 

 whitish, tessellated with blood-red ol^long spots on the spiral cords. 

 The upper half of the spire is sculptured with short obliquely vertical 

 waves on the lower third of each whorl, terminating in nodes above 

 the suture; above these waves there are several low, weakly granose 

 spiral cords. The waves gradually diminish on the penultimate 

 whorl and are nearly obsolete on the last, and the spiral cords increase 

 in number and strength. The periphery is acutely angular in front 

 but in fully adult shells becomes blunt behind the lip. The fiat 

 base is sculptured with about 12 ver}^ low and smoothish circular cords. 

 The aperture is smooth and silvery within. The columella bears an 

 acute lobe above, separated from the iDase b}^ a deep incision, and it 

 terminates below in an oblong, whitish tubercle. The umbilical 

 region is pearly as usual. 



Alt. 50, diam. 45 mm. 



Tanal^e, Kii. Types No. 82,104, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,295 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



Trochus Mrasei differs from T. conus Qm.}'^ in its wider base, acutely 



'^ The synonymy of this species, which is commonly known by the non-binomial 



name given by Chemnitz, is as follows: 



Trochus conus Gmel., Syst. Nat. (13), p. 3,569 (1790), based upon 



Trochus acutangulus, etc., Chemnitz, Conchyl. Cab., V, p. 81, PI. 167, fig}. 1,610 



(1781). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



angular periphery and flat lower surface. It holds a relation toward 

 T. conus somewhat similar to that existing between T. maximus Koch 

 and T. niloticus L. 



This form seems to be identical with 7\ turris Philippi, Zeitschr. /, 

 Malak., 1846, p. 102 {preoc.) = T. alius Phil., Conchyl. Cab., p. 217, PI. 

 32, fig. 7 (not of Perry, 1811). The habitat of Philippi's species was 

 unknown, but Dunker has reported it from the Inland Sea of Japan. 



Four recent species of the typical section of Trochus are now known : 

 T. niloticus, T. maximus, T. conus and T. hirasei. 

 Chlorostoma rugatum Gld. 



Gld., Otia Conch., p. 158. 



C. turhinatum A. Ad., Pilsbry, Catal. Mar. Moll. Jap., p. 94, PI. 6, figs. 9, 10. 

 Not of A. Adams. 



I formerly figured this under the erroneous name C. turhinatum, but 

 Adams described that species as umbilicate, while this is imperforate. 

 The figures cited above are from specimens from Hakodate, the type 

 locality. The species extends down the ocean coast of Nippon to 

 Sagami Bay, where it has been found at Hayama, near Kamakura, by 

 Miss A. C. Hartshorne. 

 CMorostoma rugatum sublaevis n. subsp. PI. V, fig. 50. 



Shell imperforate but with a rather deep pit in the place of the filled 

 umbilicus, shaped like C. rugatum or more depressed, slate-black or 

 purplish-black. Upper surface free from oblique corrugation, or with 

 it only weakly indicated in places. Base weakly sculptured with low 

 spiral cords. Axial callous white, or sometimes green-tinted and with 

 an orange outer border. 



Alt. 21, diam. 26 mm. (Kamoito, Teshio). 



Alt. 26, diam. 32 mm. (Afun, Teshio). 



Kamoito and Afun, Teshio, in Yesso, the types No. 80,388, 

 A. N. S. P., from the former place. 

 Clanculus hizenensis var. fraterculus n. v. PI. VI, fig. .54. 



The shell is trochiform with flattened base, straightly conic spire 

 and rounded periphery. On a nearly white ground it is radially macu- 

 late with browTi on the upper surface, with smaller spots interposed 

 between the others at the peripheral region. The base has paler small 

 spots on the ribs, sometimes partially arranged in radial stripes. The 

 apical H whorls are uniform, the next whorl irregularly dotted with 

 pink on a pale buff-brown ground. The 5 J or 6 whorls are convex and 

 parted by a narrow, deep suture. 



Trochus alfus Pern-, Conchologij, PI. 47, fig. 3 (ISll). 

 Trochus elotus Lamarck, An. sans Vert., VII, p. 21 (1822). 

 Trochus senatarius Philippi, Conchyl. Cab., Trochus, p. 324, PI. 46, fig. 7. 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The sculpture is of closely beaded spiral cords, of \'\'hich there are 

 five on the penultimate and next earlier whorls, the upper three small, 

 the lower two much larger and wider spaced. On the last whorl there 

 is a group of three large cords in the peripheral region, three smaller 

 ones above them; the intervals being densely obliquety striate, with 

 no trace of spiral strise or secondary threads. The base, which is slightly 

 convex, has eight subequal spirals, which are smaller and less deepl}^ 

 cut into beads than those above them. The intervals throughout are 

 about equal in width to the adjacent spiral cords. 



The aperture is very oblique, sulcate within, with 8 to 10 lirce, the 

 bevelled edge fluted. The oblique columella has a low nodule above 

 and a strong tooth at the base. Its edge is flanged outwardly. The 

 rather narrow umbilicus is guarded by about four teeth. 



Alt. 5.3, diam. 5.8 mm. 



Alt. 4.5, diam, 4.5 mm. 



Riukiu. Types No. 85,980, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,451 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



This form is closely related to C. hizenensis Piis. from Hirado, Hizen, 

 from which it differs chiefly in the smaller size, different coloration 

 and the splitting of the subsutural bead-cord into two. 



Clanculus gemmulifer pallidus Pils. PI. VI, fig. 63. 

 Nautilus, XVII, 71 (October, 1903). 



Kashiwajima, Tosa. 



Gibbula vittata Pils. PI. VI, fig. 59. 



Nautilus, XVII, 69 (October, 1903). 

 Riukiu Island. 



Gibbula incarnata Pils. PI. VI, fig. 62. 

 Nautilus, XVII, 70. 

 Kumihama, Tango. 



Monilea (Rossiteria) nucleolus Pils. PI. VI, figs. 58, 5Sa. 



Nautilus, XVII, 70. 

 Euchelus liscbkei n. sp. PI. VI, fig. 55. 



The shell is globose with conic spire and narrow umbilicus, moder- 

 ately solid, and of a uniform purple-brown color. There are about 5 

 convex whorls parted by a narrow channelled suture. 



The sculpture is of closely beaded spiral cords parted b}^ intervals 

 of 'about their own width. On the last whorl there are 11 of these 

 primary cords, with, in full-grown shells, a small secondary cord in 

 each interval. The earliest sculptured whorl has three large cords, 

 this number being soon doubled by intercalation of new ones. The 

 intervals are more or less strongly latticed across by threads continuous 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



with the beads on the spirals. The round, oblique aperture is closely 

 lirate within. The columella is noticeably .concave, and bears a weak 

 tooth below. The narrow umbilicus is bounded by a white cord. 



Alt. 7.5, diam. 6.5 mm. 



Hachijo-jima, Izu. Types No. 85,979, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,395 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species, in form and sculpture, is much like E. atratus (Gm.) on 

 a diminutive scale, but the columellar tooth is far weaker. E. ruber 

 A. Ad., E. gemmatus (Gld). and other small granose species also have 

 a much stronger columellar tooth. 

 Euchelus hachijoensis n. sp. PI. VI, fig. 56. 



Shell glolDOse, with short spire and narrow mnbilicus ; spirally 

 granose-lirate ; coral-red, sparsely dotted with darker red, usually on 

 alternate spirals above and on all the basal spirals. Whorls 4, convex, 

 the first 1 smooth. 



Sculpture of crowded, closely granose or beaded spirals, 12 or 13 

 in number and subequal on the last whorl, the granules weakly 

 connected across the intervals. On the penultimate whorl the spirals 

 usually alternate in size, as is ordinarity the case in shells where they 

 increase in number by intercalation. The subcircular, obhque aper- 

 ture is smooth or at least not distinctly sulcate inside. The columella 

 is slightly concave and terminates in a very weak tubercle. The 

 umbilicus is bounded by a white rib. 



Alt. 4, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Hachijojima, Izu. Types No. 85,978, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,3956 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small red species has an unusually weak columellar tubercle. 

 I do not know of any closely related form. 

 Euchelus (Hybochelus) cancellatus orientalis n. subsp. PI. VI, figs. 57, 57a. 



Shell similar to E. cancellatus of South Africa in form, but differing 

 in having more large spiral cords, 10 at the beginning of the last whorl, 

 each interval bisected by a small thread. Near the end of the whorl 

 some of these threads become nearly as large as the primary cords, and 

 minute threads of a third order appear in some of the intervals. In 

 E. cancellatus there are only 8 primary cords at the beginning of the 

 last whorl, the intervening threads are much larger, and additional 

 threads are intercalated sooner and more numerovisly. The pits 

 produced by oblique riblets are much narrower in orientalis, the upper 

 series in each pair of intervals are usually subdivided, while in E. 

 cancellatus the pits are regular and uniform. 



Alt. 13, diam. 15 mm. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Kashiwajima, Tosa, Type No. 85,954, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,475 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



SIPHONARIIDu^. 

 Siphonaria subatra n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 61, 61a, 616. 



Shell oval, thin, with subcentral apex, nearly straight slopes and 

 strongly projecting "siphon." Dark ashy-brown where eroded in 

 the middle, blackish around the border, and gray or banded with black 

 in the intervening zone; the interior intense black-brown with short 

 white marks at the terminations of the ribs. Sculpture of nimierous 

 rather coarse, unequally spaced radial ribs, projecting at the edge, with 

 much finer radial threads between them, several in each interval. 

 The siphonal groove usually continues weakly past the apex of the 

 cavity, its end curving forward. 



Length 16-17, widtli 13-14.5, alt. 4 mm. 



Chichijima, Ogasawara. Types No. 86,132, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,482 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



*S. atra, of the South Pacific, is a much heavier and larger shell, more 

 strongly serrate at the edge. S. amara Nutt. is a higher species, with 

 the siphonal projection less conspicuous. 

 Siplionaria rucuana n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 60, 60a, 606. 



Shell small, thin, steeply conic, with subcentral summit. The apex 

 is brown, smooth and glossy, Crepichda-^\\SL\)Qd, the tip curving back- 

 ward and to the left. The sculpture is of 20 to 25 uneciual rounded 

 radial ribs, of which about half do not extend to the apex. The ribs 

 are whitish-gray, the intervals generally dusky. The ribs irregularly 

 denticulate the margin. The siphonal rib projects moderately, and 

 shows a rather faintly impressed line along its ridge. The interior 

 is deep-brown or even black-brown within the muscle-impression, and 

 usually striped with brown to or nearly to the edge, between the 

 white rib rays. 



Length 8, width 6.5 to 7, alt. 3.3 mm. 



Length 8.5, width 7, alt. 4 mm. 



Riukiu Island. Types No. 86,131, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,364 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This small form is unlike any of the region, and seems faii'ly constant 

 in a number of specimens. 



TORNATINID^. 

 Tornatina insignis n. sp. PI. V, figs. 49, 49a. 



Shell cylindric, white, marked with slight growth-lines only. Spire 

 rather long and slender; whorls 4 after the up-tilted nucleus, very 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



convex, the suture deep but not in the least channelled, the shoulder of 

 the last whorl rounded. Aperture of the usual shape, the thin outer 

 lip ^rched forward in the middle, moderately retracted above. Colu- 

 mella concave, with a very inconspicuous fold above. 



Length 4.7, diam. 2 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types Xo. 85,984, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,271a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Remarkable for the total absence of a channel at the suture. 



Tornatina decorata n. sp. PI. V, fig. 51. 



Shell straightly cylindric, white under a pale yellow cuticle, which 

 is closely decorated with red-brown spiral lines; sculptured with 

 slight gro\\'th-Unes only. Spire short. Postnuclear whorls about 3^, 

 parted by a deeply channelled suture, which does not descend much 

 except at the last whorl. Aperture of the usual shape, the outer lip 

 moderately arched forward in the middle and retracted above, deeply 

 slit at the suture. Columella callous, flattened, slightly concave, with 

 a low fold above. 



Length 6.8, diam. 3.9 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 85,985, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,235 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Readily known by the brown lineolation and short spire when in 

 good condition; but the color is solely cuticular. No similar species 

 has been reported from the northwest Pacific. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



STUDIES IN THE ORTHOPTEKOUS FAMILY PHASMID5:. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The material treated in the following pages is almost wholly from the 

 collections of the Academy, the U. S. National Museum, and the col- 

 lection of Mr. Morgan Hebard, of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia. 



The localities represented by large series are as follows: 



Costa Rica (various localities). Schild and Burgdorf collection. 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



Mombasa, East Africa. [Collection of Morgan Hebard.] 



South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Trong, Lower Siam. Dr. W. L. Abbott. [U. S. N. M.] 



Goenong Soegi, Sumatra. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Obi, Moluccas. [Collection of Morgan Hebard.] 



The author wishes to thank Dr. William H. Ashmead, of the National 

 Museum, and Mr. Hebard for many kindnesses rendered during the 

 preparation of this and other papers. 



Subfamily LONCHODIX.E. 

 Genus MYRONIDES St^l. 

 1875. Myronides Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. S and 63. 



Included M. pfeifferop (Westwood) and M. kaupii Stal, of which the 

 former may be considered the type. 

 Myronides ashmeadi n. sp. 



Type.— d' ; Trong, Lower Siam. (W. L. Abbott.) [Cat. No. 6,974, 

 U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently related to M. filum Sharp^ from New Britain, but readih^ 

 separated by the absence of pronounced cephalic and metathoracic 

 tubercles, the comparatively greater length of the limbs, and the single 

 tooth on the apical portion of the femora. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this very distinct species to my friend, 

 Dr. William H. Ashmead, of the United States National Museum, as 

 a token of personal esteem and regard for his pronounced scientific 

 ability. 



1 Willey's Zoological Res^ats, Part I, p. 81, PI. VII, fig. 1. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Form very slender. Head moderately elongate, subequal; eyes 

 subovate, projecting considerably beyond the head ; antennse with the 

 basal joint longer than broad, depressed, subequal in width. Prono- 

 tiim about twice as long as broad. Mesonotum very elongate, sub- 

 equal, surface with but few small tubercles. Metanotum (with median 

 segment) not quite three-fifths the length of the mesonotum; median 

 segment about two-fifths the metathoracic length. Abdomen slender, 

 elongate, exceeding the thoracic segments in length ; ninth dorsal seg- 

 ment tectate, compressed, apex very deeply and narrowly emarginate; 

 supra-anal plate not visible; cerci of moderate length, subequal, in- 

 curved; subgenital plate short, not extending beyond the base of the 

 supra-anal, apex very broadly and evenly rounded. Limbs very slen- 

 der, the anterior and posterior pair subequal in length, median pair 

 shorter. Anterior femora equal to the pronotum, mesonotum and 

 metanotum (without median segment) in length, depressed, rectangular 

 in section, supplied with a median subbasal dentiform process on the 

 inferior surface; tibise very slightly exceeding the femora in length, 

 subtrigonal in section ; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length. Median femora slightly exceeding the mesonotum in 

 length, subtrigonal in section, inferior surface with a median subbasal 

 process as on the anterior femora, genicular lobes acute; tibiae very 

 slightly exceeding the femora in length, subtrigonal in section. Pos- 

 terior femora slightly exceeding the middle of the fourth abdominal 

 segment,^ sectionally subquadrate, the usual subbasal process present; 

 tibise exceeding the femora by about the length of the median segment, 

 sectionally subtrigonal; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints 

 in length. 



General color dull brownish-green, becoming rather pale green on 

 the limbs; head, antennse, pronotum, under surface of the abdominal 

 segments, and the genicular regions very dull obscure claret. Pu- 

 bescence on the tarsal joints golden yellow. 



Measureynents. 



Total length, 71 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 



Length of mesonotum, 16.5 '' 



Length of metanotum (with median segment) 9 



Length of abdomen, 38.5 



Length of anterior femora, 23.5 



Length of anterior tibise, 25.5 



Length of median femora, 16.5 



Length of posterior femora, 23 



' Not including the median segment. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Two additional male specimens have been examined, one a topo- 

 type, the other from Khow Sai Dow, Trong, 1,000 feet elevation, taken 

 in 1899. 



Myronides porus (Westwood)? 



1859. Lonchodes Porus Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 42, 

 PI. VII, fig. 9. [East Indies.] 



One female; Khow Sai Dow, Trong. Lower Siam, 1,000 feet. Janu- 

 ary-February, 1899. (Dr. W. I.. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



While the female of this species has never been described, the present 

 specimen is in such condition that the more important characters 

 cannot be critically examined. For this reason some uncertainty 

 exists as to the correctness of the determination. 



Genus PHRAORTES Stal. 

 1875. Phraortes Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 8 and 64. 



Type. — Phasma elongata Thunberg. 

 Phraortes mikado n. sp. 



Type. — ? ; Yokohama, Japan. (Loomis.) [A. N. Caudell.] 



Allied to P. elongatus (Thunberg) {= Phasma ■niponense De Haan), 

 but differing in the character of the lamellar expansions on the median 

 and posterior femora, the carination of the anterior femora, and the 

 non-gibbous sixth abdominal segment. 



Form slender, elongate. Head moderately long, considerably wider 

 anteriorl}'- than posteriorly; eyes circular, moderately prominent; occi- 

 put bearing a pair of acute conical spines, equal in height to the depth 

 of the eye. Pronotum rectangular, longer than Inroad, surface with 

 slightly marked longitudinal and transverse depressions. JMeso- 

 notum over foiu* times the length of the pronotum, suliequal except 

 posteriorly, median longitudinal depression well marked. Metanotum 

 (with median segment) about four-fifths the length of the mesonotum, 

 suljequal except for the gradually expanded ]Dosterior portion, median 

 segment about one-fourth the length of the metanotum alone. Abdo- 

 men considerably exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, 

 the greatest width l^eing at the third and fourth segments; ninth dor- 

 sal segment tectate, carinate, lateral margins sinuate, the apex with a 

 median triangular emargination which exposes the truncate extremity 

 of the tectate and carinate supra-anal plate; subgenital plate scoop- 

 shaped, compressed, carinate. Limbs \-ery slender, the anterior pair 

 exceeding the others in length. Anterior femora exceeding, by more 

 than the length of the median segment, the combined length of the 

 head, pronotum and mesonotum, subtrigonal in section, superior ex- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



ternal and inferior margin sparsely serrulate, lower surface with a 

 carina which is internal proximally but median distally; tibiee exceed- 

 ing the length of the femora by over the length of the head, pentagonal 

 in section. Median femora comparatively short, not quite equal to 

 the length of the mesonotum, subtrigonal in section, the superior 

 surface narrowly flattened, lower margins slightly expanded basally 

 and provided with several dentiform serrations, lower surface with the 

 weak median carina elevated apically and bearing several rather 

 slight dentiform processes, genicular lobes acute. Posterior femora 

 considerably exceeding the pronotum and mesonotum in length, 

 general structure identical with that of the median femora except 

 that the external inferior margin alone is expanded and developed into 

 but ofie dentiform serration; tibiae slightly exceeding the femora in 

 length, pentagonal in section, median inferior carina evenly elevated 

 in the proximal portion. 



General color greenish-brown, paler anteriorly and posteriorly. 



j\lcasurcmcnts. 



Total length. 104.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.5 " 



Length of mesonotmn 21 " 



Lengthofmetanotum (wit li median segmeiii) 17 " 



Length of abdomen. 57 " 



Length of anterior femora. 32 '' 



Length of anterior tibiae. 38 " 



Length of median femora 20 " 



Ijength of posterior femora 25.5 " 



Genus DIXIPPUS StM. 

 1875. Dixippus Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 9 and 66. 



Included crawangcnsis (Haan). nodosus (Haan), and uniformis 



(Westwood). of which the first may be selected as the type. 



Dixippus sumatranus (Haan). 



1842. P[hasma] sumotrcmian Haan, Natuur. Gesch. Neder. Overzeesche 

 Bezitt., Plaaten, tab. 13, fig. 6. [Batang Singalang, Sumatra.] 



One male; Goenong Soegi. Lampong, Sumatra. (A. C. Harrison, 

 Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) ^ [A. N. S. Phila.] 



As Kirby has shown,^ this form is no doubt distinct from imdosus. 

 with which Haan confused it in his text, after having separated and 

 applied a name to it on his plate. Kirby's male specimen and the one 

 before me carry out the characters of the female figured l)y Haan. and 



^ Trans. Linn. Soc. London, zool. ser., VI, 2d ser., pp. 458, 459. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



accordingly prove that the very different looking nodosus is something 

 quite distinct. 



The male specimens from Baram, North Borneo examined by Kirby, 

 may prove to be a closely allied but distinct species, as the measure- 

 ments given are very much larger than those of the Sumatran individual 

 examined. The dimensions of the Goenong Soegi specimen are as 

 follows : 



Total length . . 66 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.7 " 



Length of mesonotum 16 " 



Length of metanotum (with median segment) 13 " 



Length of abdomen, 33 " 



Length of anterior femora (approximately), 13 ♦ " 



Length of anterior tibia^ 12 " 



Length of median femora, 9 " 



Length of posterior femora, 11 " 



Dixippus uniformis (Westwood). 



1848. Phasma (Lonchodes) uniforme Westwood, Cabinet Orient. Entom., 

 PI. XXXIX, fig. 3. [Prince of Wales' Island, Malacca.] 



One male; Khow Sai Dow, Trong, Lower Siam, 1,000 feet elevation. 

 January-February, 1899. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. X. M.] 



This specimen has the mesothorax and the metathorax each with a 

 broad median transverse band of rich grass green. 



The distribution of the species is supposed to cover ^lalacca. 

 Sarawak and Amboina or Ceram. 



Genus CARAUSIUS StM. 

 1875. Carausius Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 8 and 64. 



Li eluded C. stncmosus and C. macer Stal, of which the former may 

 be considered the type. 



Carausius bracatus n. sp. 



Type.— 9 ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [Cat. No. 

 6,979, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently not closely allied to anj- of the previously known species 

 of the genus. 



Size rather large; form elongate, subequal; surface of the head 

 and body nodulose. Head subequal in width; interspace between 

 the eyes bearing a transverse fold, which is crossed by a slight 

 median longitudinal sulcus, and developed into slight elevations 

 laterally; posterior part of the head with four slight transversely dis- 

 posed tubercles; eyes circular, moderatel}^ prominent; antenna? witli 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



the first joint depressed, elongate-ovate in outline, second joint monili- 

 form and about one-third the length of the first. Pronotum about a 

 third again as long as broad ; posterior margin arcuate ; median trans- 

 verse sulcus arcuate, longitudinal sulcus much less distinct. Meso- 

 notum about four and one-half times the length of the pronotum, sub- 

 equal in width (except at the posterior articular portion). Metanotum 

 (with median segment) about twice the length of the head and pro- 

 notum; median segment equal to one-half of the metanotum alone. 

 Abdomen exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length, subequal 

 in width, apical segments wdth a median longitudinal carina, which 

 become more distinct as the apex is approached ; ninth dorsal segment 

 apparently tectate in life,* apex slightly sinuate; supra-anal plate 

 produced, acuminate, tectate, the apex triangularly emarginate; sub- 

 genital plate rugulose, carinate, apex with a distinct finger-like median 

 process. Limbs of moderate length, all compressed, the anterior pair 

 exceeding the others in size. Anterior femora slightly over twice the 

 length of the head and pronotum, compressed trigonal in section, each 

 margin with a foliaceous carinate ridge, lower surface with the median 

 carina prominent proximally, and bearing several dentiform serrations 

 distally; tibise equal to the femora in length, strongly compressed, the 

 dorsal portion bearing a marked foliaceous ridge, inferior surface 

 widely and deeply sulcate; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length, superior portion strongly cristate; remaining tarsal 

 joints small, the apical one equal to the second and third in length. 

 Median femora equal to about two-thirds the length of the meson otum, 

 compressed, dorsal portion strongly carinate ; tibise equal to the femora 

 in length, pentagonal in section, external inferior carina with a basal 

 arcuate expansion; metatarsi equal to the second, third and fourth 

 tarsal joints together, dorsal surface not expanded. Posterior femora 

 two-thirds the length of the meson otum, compressed, dorsal aspect 

 carinate, genicular lobes subacuminate, internal inferior carina api- 

 cally expanded and bearing three distinct teeth; tibise equal to the 

 metanotum and median segment in length, pentagonal in section, dor- 

 sal surface sulcate, basal portion of the inferior median and the apical 

 portion of the dorsal carina roundly expanded ; metatarsi but slightly 

 longer than the terminal tarsal joint, dorsal surface not crested. 



General color .-ed-brown, becoming dull umber on the limbs and 

 ashy-brown on the head. 



* Distorted in the dried specimen. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Measurements. 



Total length 125.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum. 6 " 



Length of mesonotum, 2S " 



Jjength of metanotum (with median segment). 22 " 



Length of abdomen 65 " 



T^ength of anterior femora. 24 " 



Length of anterior tibiae. 24.2 " 



Length of median femora, LS " 



Length of posterior femora,, 20 " 



Carausius mammatus n. sp. 



Type.— 9 ; Island of Obi, Moluccas. [A. N. S. Phila., presented bj^ 

 Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



This new and interesting form exhibits some relationship with C. 

 mercurius Stal,^ from an unknown locality, but differs in the form of 

 the apical segments of the abdomen and the character of the expan- 

 sion of the anterior tibise. Kirby's Dixippus (?) insidaiis'^ from Thurs- 

 day Island appears to be related to the new form, but can be separated 

 by a number of characters. 



Size rather large; form moderately slender; surface evenly rugulose. 

 Head slightly contracted posteriorly; interocular region with a trans- 

 verse ridge, incised centrally and laterally developed into acute erect 

 dentiform processes; eyes rather small, subovate; tubercles on the 

 posterior half of the head arranged in distinct longitudinal series ; an- 

 tennae not quite equal to half the length of the body, the basal joint 

 depressed, subovate, expanded, second joint half the length of the first. 

 Pronotum subequal in width, the anterior and posterior margins sub- 

 truncate, transverse median sulcus short. Mesonotum slightly ex- 

 panded posteriorly, a fine median carina present and extending a con- 

 siderable distance on the abdomen. Metanotum (with median seg- 

 ment) equal to two-thirds the length of the mesonotum, subequal in 

 width ; median segment slightly more than two-thirds the length of the 

 metanotum alone. Abdomen with the three basal segments longi- 

 tudinal, subequal in width; fourth segment with slight lateral expan- 

 sions on the apical half, slightly exceeding the basal segments in width ; 

 fifth segment strongly expanded and moderately inflated, the expansion 

 greatest on the apical portion, dorsal surface with a pair of median 

 transversely disposed mammillate tubercles ; sixth segment equal to the 

 first in width, in length equal to the fifth, both segments being some- 

 what shorter than the basal ones; seventh, eighth and ninth segments 



^ Annales Soc. Entom. Belg., Comp.-rend., XX, p. Ixxii. 

 ^ Trans. Linn. Soc, 2d ser, zool., VI, p. 460. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



siibeqiial in width, tectate, the seventh ahiiost equal to the other two in 

 length, apical margin with the median portion truncate; supra-anal 

 plate moderately produced, truncate,, rounded; cerci very short, hardly 

 visible ; subgenital opercule equal to the apex of the supra-anal plate 

 in length, compressed, keeled, the posterior portion of the carina 

 irregularly dentate. Anterior femora slightly shorter than the meso- 

 notum in length, compressed, the superior margin considerably ex- 

 panded basally and undulate, inferior external margin apically with 

 two distinct teeth, external genicular lobes acute ; anterior tibiae about 

 equal in length to the femora, compressed, the superior margin with a 

 continuous foliaceous expansion which develops a slight premedian 

 lobe; metatarsi ecjual in length to the remaining tarsal joint, superiorly 

 with a foliaceous expansion equal in height to that on the tibiae ; fifth 

 tarsal joint almost equal in length to the second to fourth inclusive. 

 Median femora equal to the metanotum (with median segment) in 

 length, slightly compressed, the internal inferior margin armed apically 

 with two dentiform processes, external genicular lobes acute ; median 

 tibiae shorter than the femora and equal to the fifth and sixth abdomi- 

 nal segments in length, inferior median carina with a low basal expan- 

 sion/the superior carina with an apical bullate expansion of about equal 

 height; metatarsi not equal to the length of the remaining joints, 

 without any foliaceous expansion; fifth tarsal joint shorter than the 

 second to fourth inchisive. Posterior femora not quite reaching the 

 middle of the third abdominal segment, moderately compressed, sul- 

 cate above, internal genicular lobes acute, lateral inferior margins 

 armed apically with two spines, those on the internal margin prominent ; 

 posterior tibiae exceeding the femora and almost equal to the meso- 

 notum in length, median inferior carina with a low elongate foliaceous 

 expansion at the extreme base, apex with a bullate expansion similar 

 to the median tibiae; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length, fifth tarsal joint equal to the second and third in 

 length. 



General color wood-brown, finely flecked with blackish, becoming 

 semi-ochraceous on the anterior limbs and antennae, the latter with 

 regiilarly disposed, usually incomplete annuli of blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 110 mm. 



Length of pronotum, .... * 4.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 24.5 " 



Length of metanotum (with median segment) 17 " 



Length of median segment, 7.5 " 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Measurements. 



Length of abdomen, 59 mm. 



I.iength of anterior femora, 22 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 23 '' 



Length of median femora, 17 '' 



Length of posterior femora, 19.5 " 



Carausius obiensis n. sp. 



Type. — ? ; Island of Obi, Moluccas. [A. N. S. Phila., presented by 

 Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



Allied to C. mammatits, but differing in the non-nodose fifth ab- 

 dominal segment, the absence of large spines in the head and foliaceous 

 expansions on the anterior metatarsi. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface irregularly granulose. Head 

 rather short, subequal in width; interspace between the eyes with a 

 few rather large granules, but no distinct spines; eyes moderately 

 large, circular; antennae not equal to half the length of the body, basal 

 joint rather elongate, twdce as long as broad, depressed, second joint 

 not quite half the length of the first. Pronotum longitudinal, somewhat 

 compressed posteriorly; anterior margin truncate, posterior l^roadly 

 arcuate; median transverse sulcus short. Mesonotum slightly less 

 than half the length of the abdomen, a median longitudinal carina pres- 

 ent and continued to the apex of the al^domen. Metanotum (including 

 median segment) two-thirds the length of the mesonotum ; median seg- 

 ment tw^o-thirds the length of the metanotum alone, anterior margin 

 obtuse-angulate. Abdomen with supplementary lateral carinae in the 

 apical portion; five basal segments longitudinal, subequal in lengih; 

 sixth segment slightly shorter than the fifth ; seventh, eighth and ninth 

 segments together about equal to the sixth in length, subequal in width, 

 tectate; eighth and ninth segments transverse, each shorter than the 

 somewhat longitudinal seventh; supra-anal plate tectate, carinate, 

 the apical margin rounded; cerci depressed, broad, subacuminate, 

 not equalling the apex of the supra-anal plate in length; subgenital 

 opercule cymbiform, keeled, of moderate size, apex subacuminate but 

 not exceeding the apex of the supra-anal plate, the median carina api- 

 cally undulate. Anterior femora equal to five-sixths the length of the 

 mesonotum, moderately compressed, superior carina slightly expanded 

 and undulate basally, external inferior carina bearing two preapical 

 dentiform processes; anterior tibiae equal in length to the femora, 

 compressed, superior carina developed into a rather low even lamellate 

 ridge which divides apically and encloses a comparatively broad 

 shallow sulcus, inferior median carina developed similar to the superior 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



carina; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, Init 

 slightly dilated superiorly; fifth tarsal joint equal to the second to 

 fourth inclusive in length. Median femora almost equal to the meta- 

 notum (with median segment) in length, external inferior margin 

 armed apically with two dentiform processes; median tibia? slightly 

 shorter than the femora, apically with a slight tumidity, the inferior 

 median carina with a low triangular basal expansion; metatarsi not 

 quite equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, not dilated; fifth 

 tarsal joint about equal to the second to fourth joints inclusive. Pos- 

 terior femora reaching to the base of the third abdominal segment, 

 slightly compressed, internal inferior margin apically with two denti- 

 form processes, internal genicular lobes spiniform; posterior tibia> 

 equal to five-sixths the length of the mesonotum, slightly tumid at the 

 apex, inferior median carina with a low triangular l^asal lobe ; metatarsi 

 equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, not dilated; fifth tarsal 

 joint equal to the second and third in length. 



General color ochraceous-brown streaked with wood-brown, a line 

 of the latter tint following the central line of the body, and reinforced 

 on the metanotum and abdomen by lateral lines of the same tint. 

 Antennae ochraccous with usually imperfect annuli of blackish. Limbs 

 mottled with blackish-brown on the anterior pair, and rather solid 

 purplish-brown on the posterior pair. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 83 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 



Length of mesonotum, 19.2 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 13.5 " 



Length of median segment, 6 



Length of abdomen, 44.5 



Length of anterior femora, 17 



Length of anterior tibiae, 17 



Length of median femora, 12.5 



Length of posterior femora, 14.5 



Subfamily HETERONEMIN^ {Bacunculince) . 



Genus HESPEROPHASMA Rehn. 



1872. Phantasis Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mexiq. TAmer. Cent., Orth., p. ISS. 



(Not of Tliomson, 1860.) 

 1901. Hesperophasma Rehn, Canad. Entom., XXXIII, p. 271. 



Type. — By selection, Phasma plamdum Westwood. 



Hesperophasma planulum (Westwood). 



1859. Phasma planulum Westwootl, Catal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 34, 

 PI. 1, fig. 7. [San Domingo.] 



One female; no data. [A. N. S. Phila. » 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Genus CEROYS Serville." 

 1S39. Ceroijs Serville, Orthopteres, p. 262. 



Inchided perfoliatus Gray and multispiiiosus Serville, of which the 

 former may be considered the type. 

 Ceroys bigibbus n. sp. 



Type.— 9 ; Nicaragua. [Cat. Xo. 6,973, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently closer related to C. rabdota Westwood than to any other 

 species of the genus. From this it may be separated by the spinose 

 mesonotum, the comparatively shorter limbs, the absence of any very 

 marked appendages to the basal abdominal segments, and the very 

 different character of the apical segments of the abdomen. 



Size medium; form rather elongate; surface rugulose, lobate and 

 spinulose. Head longitudinal; occiput with a pair of prominent ear- 

 like processes, the extreme posterior margin with a pair of blunt spini- 

 form processes; eyes subspherical, moderately prominent; antennse 

 about equal in length to the pronotum and mesonotum, basal joint 

 strongly depressed. Pronotum slightly longitudinal, saddle-shaped; 

 surface strongly tuberculate, a distinct paired series extending on either 

 side of the faint median longitudinal sulcus; anterior margin with a 

 pair of medium size, rounded tubercles; posterior margin with a pair 

 of very jDrominent spinous processes. Mesonotum about four times 

 the length of the pronotum, somewhat constricted anteriorly, slightly 

 expanded centrally ; median portion with a pair of low transverse carini- 

 form lobes; posterior margin with two small pairs of median rounded 

 lobes; lateral borders with a row of low rounded fold-like tubercles. 

 Metanotum (with median segment) two-fifths the length of the meso- 

 notum, immediately anterior to the median segment two low rourded 

 lobes are developed; median segment very small, not one-fifth the 

 length of the whole segment ; supra-coxal region of the metathoracic 

 segment margined by a saw-like series of rounded lobules. Abdomen 

 slightly exceeding the thorax in length, the six basal segments all trans- 

 verse or subtransverse, each segment with the posterior margin with 

 two median pairs of lobules; sixth dorsal segment depressed, laterally 

 supplied with rounded foliaceous expansions; seventh and eighth seg- 

 ments somewhat compressed, subcarinate, the posterior margins irregu- 

 larly sinuate and serrate ; ninth segment strongly depressed posteriorly, 

 tuberculate, apex with the median portion sinuate; supra-anal plate 

 produced, convex, apex narrowly rounded ; subgenital opercule reaching 

 slightly beyond the apex of the supra-anal plate, longitudinally striate, 



' Stal's Caulonia {Recensio OrthojAerorum , III, p. 74, 1875) is apparently 

 nothing more than a synonym of Serville's genus. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



lateral borders emarginate, apex rectangulate. Limbs rather short; all 

 lobato to a greater or lesser extent. Anterior femora three times the 

 length of the pronotum, basal flexure occup^ang almost half the entire 

 femur, superior margin with an apical dentate foliaceous lobe; tibiae 

 about equal to the femora in length, superior margin with four rounded 

 lobes, decreasing in size toward the apex; metatarsi short, exceeded in 

 length by the terminal tarsal joint and about equal to the second and 

 third together. Median femora about equal to the anterior femora in 

 length, posterior superior margin with a large bidentate apical lobe and 

 several smaller ones distributed between the large one and the proximal 

 extremity, anterior superior margin wdth several low rounded lobules, 

 inferior margins with several low lobules and a median bidentate apical 

 lobe; tibiae about equal to the femora in length, the superior margin 

 with three lobules decreasing in size toward the apex ; metatarsi as in 

 the anterior limbs. Posterior femora equal to the four basal joints of 

 the abdomen in length, the superior margin with three large subpyrami- 

 dal lobes, the largest being bilobate and placed at the distal extremity, 

 several small lobules are located between the larger lobes, inferior 

 margins with several small low^ lobules, the apical larger than any of the 

 others and strongly bilobate; posterior tibiae exceeding the femora 

 by half the length of the fifth abdominal segment, superior surface 

 with three rounded lobules, decreasing in size toward the distal 

 extremity; metatarsi as in the anterior limbs. 



General color brownish-black, becoming reddish-brown toward the 

 apex of the abdomen ; antennae with the three terminal segments pale 

 ochraceous. 



Mcasiirouenfs. 



Total length, 78 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 '' 



Length of mesonotum, 22 " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 9.5 '" 



Length of median segment L9 '" 



Length of abdomen 39 '" 



Length of anterior femora, 14.8" 



T>ength of anterior tibiae, 15.5 '" 



Length of median femora 12.5 '" 



Length of posterior femora, 16 



There is a small female specimen from Tueurrique, Costa Rica, in 



the U. S. National ]\Iuseum collection, Avhich resembles very much 



the type of bigibbus. A number of points of difference, however, exist. 



but as these conditions in the specimen may be due to immaturity. I 



4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF TFIE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



have provisionally determined it as this species. The following is a 

 brief diagnosis : 



Size small; form somewhat slenderer than in the type, but otherwise 

 similar. Head with the auricular appendages very prominent, the 

 margins sinuate, about reaching the posterior margin of the head; 

 eyes ovate. Mesonotum with the median processes as in the type, but 

 more pronounced; a distinct longitudinal median carina developed. 

 Metanotum with a distinct median carina; lateral margins with 

 distinct sinuous carinse. Abdomen as in the type, but all of the 

 longitudinal plicae exaggerated; lateral lobes of the sixth dorsal 

 segment not differing materially from that of the other specimen; 

 seventh dorsal segment about equal to the sixth in length, tectate, 

 strongly carinate; eighth and ninth segments subequal in length, 

 supplied with a number of sinuous longitudinal rugse, the eighth 

 apically supplied with a median pair of low rounded lobes, the ninth 

 with the apical margin truncate; supra-anal plate moderately pro- 

 duced, rounded, hirsute ; cerci very short, simple, not extending beyond 

 the apical margin of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment; subgenital 

 opercule extending slightly beyond the apex of the eighth dorsal seg- 

 ment, carinate, apex rectangulate ; terminal ventral segment rectangu- 

 late; apex narrowly incised. Limbs as in the type but stouter. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 46 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 12 " 



Length of metanotum (with median segment), 6 " 



Length of median segment, 2.1 " 



Length of abdomen, 2.3 " 



Length of anterior femora, 9 " 



Length of anterior tibiffi, 8 " 



Length of median femora, 6.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 9.5 " 



Genus DIAPHEROMERA Gray. 

 1S35. Diapheromcra Gray, Synops. Pliasm., pp. 13 and IS. 

 Type. — Diaiphcromera sayi Gray = Spectrum jemoratum Say. 



Diapheromcra calcarata (Burmeister). 



1S3S. B\acteria\ (Bacvnculus) calcarata Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom. 

 II, p. 56G. [Mexico.] 



Four specimens, two males and two females : Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, 

 Mexico, Jime 28, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) [A. X. S. Phila.] Guaymas. 

 Sonora, Mexico. [U. S. N. M.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



The iTi,ale of this species is, as noted by Saussure,* ahiiost identical 

 with that of D. femorata, but the female can readily be distinguished 

 by the comparatively robust limbs and short conoid cerci. The 

 female from Alta Mira is interesting, as it possesses two short spinous 

 interocular processes, but is in every other detail perfectly typical of 

 the species. The male from Guaymas has the right anterior limb 

 aborted. Saussure has recorded this species from near Tampico. 



Genus SERMYLE Stai.^ 

 1875. Sermyle Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 23 and 76. 



Type. — As restricted,*** Acanthoderus mexicanus Saussure. 

 Sermyle physconia n. sp. 



Types. — c^ and 9 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burg- 

 dorf.) [Cat. No. 6,975, U. S. N. M.] 



Allied to S. mexicana (Saussure), but differing in the female in the 

 reduced expansion of the fifth abdominal segment, the much longer 

 sixth, and the less compressed seventh, eighth and ninth segments. As 

 the male of mexicana has been imperfectly described, comparison is 

 hardly possible. From S. cetolus (Westwood) it can readily be dis- 

 tinguished by the smaller size and shorter genital opercule. 



d^ . — Size medium ; form elongate ; surface subglabrous. Head rather 

 elongate, but slightly expanded anteriorly; interspace between the 

 eyes with a pair of erect dentiform tubercles; eyes subcircular, de- 

 cidedly prominent; antennae over twice the length of the anterior fem- 

 ora, basal joint depressed. Pronbtum longitudinal, over half again as 

 long as broad, median transverse sulcus deeply impressed. Mesonotum 

 slender, two and a half times the length of the head and pronotum 

 together, subequal (except posteriorly), rounded. Metanotum (with 

 median segment) equal to three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, 

 similar in shape to the mesonotum but more robust ; median segment 

 subquadrate, equal to one-fifth the length of the metanotum alone. 

 Abdomen slender, elongate, all segments longitudinal; seventh seg- 

 ment compressed, but apically dilated; eighth segment slightly longi- 

 tudinal, apically compressed, practically fused with the seventh; 

 ninth segment slightly over half the length of the seventh, bullate, 

 moderately expanded, apical margin with a comparatively deep median 



^ Miss. Scientifiq. Mexiq., Orth., p. 165. 



' The genus Pseudosermyle, created by Caudell {Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., XX^T, 

 p. 867), includes the forms having trifid cerci in the male. The Mexican Bac- 

 teria tridens Burmeister is accordingly a member of the genus Pseudosermyle. 

 No such foliaceous lobes are developed in this genus as are found in true 

 Sermyle. 



'» Vide Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. S67. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



emargiiiation ; cerci very slightly incurved, apically decurvecl^ internal 

 inferior margin with a blunt basal tubercle, surface strongly hirsute ; first 

 segment of the genital opercule bearing a recurved claw-like process 

 immediately before the apex; second segment of the opercule hastate. 

 Limbs slender, without distinct foliaceous expansions. Anterior 

 femora half again as long as the mesonotum, trigonal in section ; tibiae 

 slightly exceeding the femora in length, quadrate in section ; metatarsi 

 considerably exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length. Medi- 

 an femora equal in length to the mesonotum, slightly curved, sub- 

 quadrate in section, genicular lobes triangular; tibise equal to the 

 femora in length, compressed; metatarsi slightly shorter than the 

 remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora reaching to the middle of 

 the fifth abdominal segment, equal to the head, pronotiun and meso- 

 notum in length, slightly curved, subquadrate in section; tibise slightly 

 longer than the femora; metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining 

 tarsal joints. 



General color greenish-brown; limbs annulate with pale ochraceous. 



9 . — Form elongate, moderately robust; size medium; surface gran- 

 ulose. Head somewhat elongate, strongly tuberculate; interspace 

 between the eyes with a pair of erect foliaceous lobes, the margins of 

 which are irregularly crenulate ; eyes subcircular, moderately promi- 

 nent; antennae over twice the length of the anterior femora, basal joint 

 depressed. Pronotum longitudinal, slightly expanded posteriorly; 

 median transverse sulcus distinctly marked. Mesonotum about twice 

 as long as head and pronotum together, subequal; median longitudinal 

 carina distinctly marked, subobsolete posteriorly. Metanotum (with 

 median segment) about three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, 

 subequal ; median segment about one-third as long as the metanotum 

 itself, transverse. Abdomen exceeding the head and thoracic seg- 

 ments in length, subequal in width, surface longitudinally striate as 

 well as tuberculate ; fifth segment with the median portion of the apical 

 margin bearing a pair of small converging foliaceous lobes; sixth seg- 

 ment equal to the fifth in length, subequal to the latter in width ; 

 seventh and ninth segments subequal in length, eighth trans- 

 verse, apical margin of the ninth segment obtusely produced and 

 with a broad V-shaped median emargination ; styles broad, de- 

 pressed, somewhat produced apically; subgenital plate produced, 

 reaching to the posterior margin of the eighth dorsal segment, 

 carinate, apex subacuminate with a narrow triangular median emargi- 

 nation. Limbs of rather slender build and but moderate length. 

 Anterior femora exceeding the length of the mesonotum by the length 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHL\. 53 



of the median segment, compressed in the apical two-thirds, subquad- 

 rate in section ; tibiae exceeding the femora by almost the length of the 

 pronotum, quadrate in section; metatarsi very considerably exceeding 

 the remaining tarsal joints in length. Median femora slightly exceed- 

 ing the metanotnm (with median segment) in length, subquadrate in 

 section, inferior margins with an irregularly rounded prebasal lobe, 

 genicular lobes acuminate; tibiae subequal to the femora in length, 

 quadrate in section; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remain- 

 ing tarsal joints. Posterior femora slightly exceeding the second to 

 fourth abdominal segments in length, subquadrate in section; tibiae 

 slightly longer than the femora in length, quadrate in section; meta- 

 tarsi but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color yellowish-brown (green in life?), becoming yellowish- 

 green on the limbs. 



Measurements. 



& ? 



Total length, 63 mm. 76.3 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.6 " 4 " 



Length of mesonotum, 14.5 " 16.5 " 



Length of metanotum (with median 



segment), 12 " 12.5 " 



Length of abdomen, 33 " approx. 48 ** 



Length of anterior femora, .... 20.5 " 18.1 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 22.5 " 21.5 " 



Length of median femora, 15 " 14.2 " 



Length of posterior femora, .... 19.5 " 20 " 



One additional female specimen from the type locality has also been 

 examined. It is considerably smaller than the type, but otherwdse 

 perfectly identical. 



Genus HETERONEMIA Gray." 

 1835. Heteronemia Gray, Synopsis Spec. Ins. Fam. Phasm., pp. 13 and 19. 

 Type. — H. mexicana Gray. 



Heteronemia yersiniana (Saussure). 



1868. Bacteria Yersiniana Saussure, Re\aie et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XX, p. 65. [Porto Rico.] 



One male; Utuado, Porto Rico, April 6, 1900. (Dr. C. W. Rich- 

 mond.) [U. S. N. M.] 



^^ There seems no escape from the substitution of this name for the species to 

 which the time-honored name Bacunculus has been applied. Gray's name has 

 three years' priority, and though based on partially abnormal characters, its true 

 position has been definitely shown by Westwood (Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, 

 pp. 25-26). 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Heteronemia ignava n. sp. 



Types. — c? and 9 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burg- 

 dorf.) [Cat. No. 6,976, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently closely related to H. mexicana Gray and H. striata (Bur- 

 meister), but differing from the former in the stouter body, longer limbs 

 and different abdominal appendages in the male; and from striata in 

 the shorter seventh abdominal segment in the male, and the different 

 proportions of the three terminal segments in the female. From H. 

 festuca (GigHo-Tos), another ally, it can readily be .separated by the 

 character of the female subgenital opercule, which is tridentate in 

 festuca. 



(S". — Size rather small; form moderately slender, subequal; surface 

 chiefly glabrous. Head subequal, dorsal aspect bearing about fom- 

 longitudinal rows of minute blunt tubercles; eyes very prominent; 

 antennse rather robust, about equal to half the entire length, basal 

 joint somewhat depressed, the greatest width basal. Pronotum sub- 

 equal in width, over half again as long as broad. Meson otum very 

 slightly expanded posteriorly, equal to the median femora in length. 

 Metanotum (with median segment) al^out three-fourths the length of 

 the mesonotum; median segment slightly transverse, about one-fifth 

 the total length of the metanotum. Abdomen with the segments 

 longitudinal, but about equal in width to the mesonotum; seventh 

 dorsal segment slightly bullate apically and fused with the short eighth 

 segment, the Hne of demarcation being hardly visible; ninth dorsal 

 segment operculate, somewhat bullate, the apical margin with a deep 

 V-shaped median emargination ; cerci but slightly shorter than the 

 ninth segment, compressed, slightly decurved and provided with a 

 dentiform point at the lower angle of the apical margin; subgenital 

 opercule with the apical margin rounded, and provided with an acute 

 ungual preapical hook. Limbs rather short, femora and tibiae sub- 

 quadrate in section, all unarmed. Anterior femora and tibiae each 

 equal to the pronotum, mesonotum and half of the head in length; 

 metatarsi equal to the remaining joints in length. Median femora 

 and tibiae equal to the mesonotum in length; metatarsi considerably 

 shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora reaching 

 to the apex of the fourth abdominal segment; tibiae slightly exceeding 

 the femora in length; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length. 



General color pale greenish-yellow, becoming brownish on the limbs 

 and apex of the abdomen; head with faint longitudinal bars of dull 

 brown. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



$ . — Size rather small ; form slender, thoracic width greater than 

 the abdominal wdclth; surface very sparsely and minutely tuberculate. 

 Head subequal in width, slightly larger than the pronotum, surface 

 bearing longitudinal rows of minute tubercles; eyes prominent; an- 

 tennae exceeding half the length of head and body, basal joint slightly 

 depressed, subequal in width. Pronotum subequal in width, twice as 

 long as broad. Mesonotum equal in length to the posterior femora, 

 subequal in width, bearing a faint longitudinal carina which extends to 

 the apex of the abdomen. Metanotum (with median segment) about 

 three-fourths the length of the mesonotum; median segment subquad- 

 rate, equal to one-fifth the length of the metanotum alone. Abdomen 

 with the segments strongly longitudinal, not equalling the thoracic seg- 

 ments in width, seventh dorsal segment tectate, about equal in length 

 to the eighth and ninth together; ninth segment strongly tectate, 

 carinate, the apical margin with a small triangular emargination ; 

 styles projecting beyond the ninth dorsal segment by slightly OA'er 

 half the length of the latter, compressed, apex rounded; subgenital 

 opercule slightly exceeding the apical margin of the eighth dorsal seg- 

 ment in length, apex subacuminate, the preapical portion with a short 

 ungual process. Limbs rather short, the femora and tibiae sub- 

 equal in length. Anterior femora equal to the pronotum and meso- 

 notum in length; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in 

 length. Median femora slightly longer than the metanotum (with 

 median segment); tibiae slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi 

 not quite equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. Posterior 

 femora reaching to the middle of the fourth abdominal segment; meta- 

 tarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color dull olive-brown, the limbs obscurely annulate with 

 very dull ochraceous; tubercles on head and thoracic segments milk}' 

 white. 



MeasiiremerUs. 



Total length 50.5 mm. 54 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.2 " 2.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, n.5 " 12.2 " 



Length of metanotum (including median seg- 

 ment), " 9 '' 10 " 



Length of abdomen, 26 " 28.5 " 



Length of anterior femora. ....... 15.5 " 14.5 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 15 " 14 . " 



Length of median femora 11.2 " 10.5 " 



Leng-th of posterior femora, 13.5 " 12.5 " 



Three female topotypes of this forin a.s:roe perfectly with the type, 




56 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



except that two of them are shghtly hghter in color, much as in the 

 male. This is, of course, of little consequence, being due entirely to 

 the condition of the specimen. A smaller female from Atcnas, Costa 

 Rica, is greenish-white in color, but otherwise is perfectly typical. 



Genus OREOPHOETES n. gen.12 



Allied to Heteronemia, but distinguished by the peculiar structure 

 of the apical abdominal segments and the shape of the pronotum. 



Pronotum slightly longitudinal, the anterior angles considerably 

 produced, rounded; median transverse suture very distinct; postero- 

 lateral angles depressed. Abdomen comparatively short, the basal 

 segments but slightly longitudinal; sixth dorsal segment compressed, 

 carinate ; seventh dorsal segment very slightly shorter than the sixth, 

 carinate, rather bullate apically; eighth segment slightly longer than 

 the sixth segment, slightly depressed, carinate ; ninth segment trans- 

 verse, apex with broad triangular emargination ; cerci subequal in 

 width, slightl}^ longer than the ninth dorsal segment. Sixth ventral 

 abdominal segment compressed, carinate; seventh compressed, cari- 

 nate, about half the length of the sixth ; eighth segment about half the 

 length of the seventh, compressed but not carinate; subgenital oper- 

 cule bullate, equal in length to the eighth dorsal segment, apex rotun- 

 dato-truncate, apical margin strongly reflexed, forming a yexy distinct 

 rim. Limbs elongate, unarmed. 



Type. — Bacteria peruana Saussure. 



Oreophoetes peruana (Saussure). 



1868. Bacteria Peruana Saussure, Re^^.le et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XX, p. 65. [Peru.] 



One -male; Piches and Perene A'alleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet. 

 (Soc. Geog. de Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This species has been recorded by Saussure from the plateau of 

 Peru, beside the very broad type locality. 



Genus DYME StSl. 



1875. Dyme Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 24 and 77. 



Type. — Di/me hify^ons Stal. 



Dyme bifrons StM? 



1S75. D[i/7ne] bijrons Stal, Recen.<io Orthopterorum, III, p. 77. [Peru.] 



One male; Piches and Perene Valleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet. 

 (Soc. Geog. de Lima.) [U. S. N. M.] 



While this specimen is but two-thirds the size of the type male of 

 bifrons, the proportions are about the same. The eighth dorsal 



^'^ ovpso(l)<)iTnr, mounfoin nym ph. in allusion to the locality of the type species. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



abdominal segment exhibits no such character as "anguhs posticis in 

 dentem sat longum productis instructo/' and for that reason I have 

 queried the determination, ahhough the specimen fully agrees other- 

 wise . 



Genus CALYNDA Stdl. 

 1875. Calynda Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum. Ill, pp. 24 and 78. 

 Type. — C. bicuspis Stal. 



Calynda bicuspis StM. 



187.5. C[alynda] hicuspis Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 78. [Chi- 

 riqui.] 



One female; Tucurriciue, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



This specimen is considerably larger than Stal's type, but agrees 

 absolutely with the diagnostic characters given by him. A character 

 apparently overlooked by Stal is the presence of a rounded foliaceous 

 lobe on the basal portion of the inferior lateral carinas of the median 

 femora. 



Genus BOSTEA StM. 



1875. Bostra Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handlingar, bd. 2, 

 No. 17, p. 6. 



Type. — Bacteria turgida Westwood. 

 Bostra incompta n. sp. 



Type. — d^; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No. 6,977, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently closer related to B. turgida (Westwood) than to B. dor- 

 suaria Stal, From turgida it differs in the very much greater size and 

 the shape of the terminal abdominal segments. From dorsuaria it 

 can readily be distinguished by the unarmed head and smaller size. 



Size large; form very slender and elongate ; surface glabrous. Head 

 rather short, very slightly longer than the pronotum, subequal in 

 width ; eyes circular, not prominent ; antennae about equal to the body 

 in length, basal joint oblong, scarcely depressed. Pronotum subequal 

 in width, half again as long as broad. Mesonotum slightly shorter than 

 the median femora, slender and subequal except for a slight posterior 

 expansion. Metanotum (with median segment) not cjuite three- 

 fourths the length of the mesonotum, scarcely wider than the meso- 

 notum; median segment equal to over two-thirds the length of the 

 metanotum itself. Abdomen with the six basal segments elongate, 

 all at least three times as long as broad, the length of segments decreas- 

 ing toward the apex; seventh dorsal segment somewhat bullate. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



slightly longer than broad; eighth segment equal to the seventh in 

 length, compressed, lateral portions produced inferiorly, the margins 

 roimded except the posterior angle which is slightly acuminate; ninth 

 dorsal segment very slightly longer than broad, somewhat bullate. 

 apical margin truncate with a very broad shallow median emargination ; 

 cerci rather small, slightly clavate, curved ; subgenital opercule not quite 

 equalling the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, large, compressed, tec- 

 tate, apical portion with a longitudinal keel which develops a blunt 

 point below and slightly posterior to the superior margin. limbs 

 very slender and elongate, carinate, unarmed. Anterior femora equal 

 to the head, pronotum and meson otum in length; tibise exceeding the 

 femora by the length of the head and pronotum; metatarsi slight!}- 

 exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length. Median femora equal to 

 the mesonotum in length ; tibia exceeding the femora by the length of 

 the pronotum; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. 

 Posterior femora reaching to the apex of the fourth abdominal segment : 

 tibiae exceeding the femora by about half the length of the first 

 abdominal segment ; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal 

 joints in length. 



General color brownish-olive, dark in the genicular regions and pale 

 on the head, pronotum, apex of the abdomen and proximal portions of 



the femora. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 107^ mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.7 



Length of mesonotum, ,27 



Length of metanotum (with median segment), .... 20 " 



Length of abdomen, 56 " 



Length of anterior femora 34.5 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 42 " 



Length of median femora, 28 " 



Length of posterior femora, 33.5 " 



Two additional specimens of this species have been examined, one 

 a topotype, the other from Piedras Negras, Costa Pica. They agree 

 perfectly with the type in structure and coloration. 

 Bostra remiformis n. sp. 



Type. — 2 ; Piedras Negras, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) 

 [Cat. No. 6,978, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently not allied to the only species of the genus, B. turgida 

 Westwood, known from the female. It does not appear to be the 

 female of any of the species based on the opposite sex. From the female 

 of B. turgida it differs in the non-spinous body, the triangularly emar- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



ginate apex of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, the very different 

 cerci, and the unarmed limbs. 



Size medium; form very slender and elongate; surface subglabrous. 

 Head rather elongate, narxowed posteriorly; eyes subcircular, not 

 prominent; antennae slightly exceeding half the length of the body, 

 filiform, basal joint moderately depressed. Pronotum about twice as 

 long as broad. Mesonotum about equal in length to the posterior 

 femora. Metanotum (with median segment) not quite three-fourths 

 the length of the mesonotum ; median segment two-thirds the length of 

 the metanotum itself. Abdomen with six basal segments subequal 

 in length; seventh, eighth and ninth segments sharply tectate. the 

 seventh slightly exceeding either of the others in length, ninth with the 

 apical margin with a liroad rounded median emargination, exposing 

 the rounded apex of the supra-anal plate; cerci elongate, depressed, 

 paddle-shaped, slightly exceeding the ninth segment in length, apex 

 rounded; subgenital opercule short, not reaching to the apical margin 

 of the eighth dorsal segment, apex triangular produced, the preapical 

 portion developing a recurved ungual process. limits of moderate 

 length, strongly carinate and compressed. Anterior femora slighth^ 

 exceeding the mesonotum in length ; tibise slightly exceeding the fem- 

 ora in length; metatarsi slightly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints 

 in length. Median femora about five-sixths the length of the meso- 

 notum ; tibiae about equal to the femora in length ; metatarsi equalled in 

 length by the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora equal to three 

 and a half of the fourth basal abdominal segments; tibise equal to the 

 four basal segments; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints 

 in length. 



General color yellowish-brown (probably green in life), very pale on 

 the anterior limbs. 



Measurefnents. 



Total length, 78 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3 " 



Length of mesonotum, 18.1 " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 13.5 " 



Length of abdomen (including cerci), 41.2 " 



Length of anterior femora, 20 '' 



Length of anterior tibise, 21.5 " 



Length of median femora, 15.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 19 " 



Genus ONCOTOPHASMA n. gen. 



Type. — Bostra martini Griffini. 



Body of medium build ; pronotum for the greater part slenderer than 

 the abdomen. Metathorax strongly inflated and rugose; the tumid 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



section involving the pleura as well as the dorsal portion, but not the 

 metasternum, which is, however, strongly rugose; anterior portion 

 of the nietathorax not inflated. Median segment half again as long as 

 broad, about equal to half the length of the metanotum itself. Ante- 

 rior and median limbs without prominent spines, except the genicular 

 lobes of the median femora which are spiniform, and two median 

 apical spines on the inferior surface of the same limbs. Posterior 

 femora inflated, armed along the median inferior carina with seven or 

 eight distinct spines, the apical ones of large size, genicular lobes spini- 

 form; tibise with the carinse serrulate, the inferior pair also provided 

 with dentiform spines. 



This genus is near Bostra, but can be separated by the swollen 

 metathorax and enlarged and strongly armed posterior femora. It 

 will include Bostra podagrica Stal,^^ which has all the characters of 

 Oncotophasma except the swollen metathorax, the character of which 

 Stal does not mention. The two genera may be separated as follows: 



Males. 



A. — Posterior femora unarmed ; intermediate femora not spined 



apically, Bostra Stal. 



AA. — Posterior femora strongly spinose ; intermediate femora apically 

 bispinose, Oncotophasma Rehn. 



Oncotophasma martini (GrifEni). 



1896. B[ostra]]Mar(ini Griffini, Bollettino del Musei di Zoologia ed Anatomia 

 comparata, XI, No. 236, p. 10, fig. [Forests by the lagoon of Pita, 

 Darien, Colombia.] 



One male; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [U. S. 



N. M.] 



Genus CLONISTSIA Stil. 



1875. Clonistria Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handlingar, 

 Band 2, No. 17, p. 6. 



Type.^ — Clonistria hartholomaa Stal. 



Clonistria linearis (Drury)? 



1770. [Mantis] linearis Drury, III. Nat. Hist. Exot. Ins., I, p. 130, and 

 Append., PI. L, fig. 3. [Antigua.] 



One male; Jamaica. [U. S. N. M.] 



As considerable uncertainty has prevailed regarding the identity 

 of Drury's linearis, a question which cannot satisfactorily be settled 

 without a study of Antiguan material, I have queried the determi- 

 nation. 



The specimen in hand has the under surface of the head marked with 



^^ Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 79 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



blackish, while the whole upper surface is dull greenish more or less 

 distinctly overcast with brownish. 



J Subfamily BACTERIN^ {PalopUnce Kirby"). 

 Genus CLADOMORPHUS Gray. 

 1835. Cladomorphus Gray, Synop. Ins. Fam. Phasmid., p. 15. 

 Type. — As restricted by Serville, C. phyllinus Gray.^^ 



Cladomorphus phyllinus Gray. 



183.5. C[ladomorphtis] phyllinus Grav, Syiiop. Ins. Fam. Phasmid., p. 15 

 [Brazil.] 



One female; San Antonio dc Jesu, Brazil. [A. N. S. Phila.] 

 This specimen is equal to the measurements given by Saussure.^® 

 I have adopted the above generic and specific names in preference to 

 Phihalosoma lepeletierii, agreeing with Kirby" that page prioritj' 

 should be applied to this case, regardless of usage as to one sex having 

 a systematic value superior to the other. 



Genus PTERINOXYLUS Serville. 

 1839. Pterinoxylvs ServiUe, Orthopteres, p. 226. 

 Type. — P. difformipes Serville ( = Haplopus eucnemis Burmeister). 



Pterinoxylus eucnemis (Burmeister)? 



1838. H[npJopus\ eucnernis Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., II, p. 577. 

 [Interior Brazil.] 



Three specimens, all immature ; two males, one female ; Tucurrique 

 and Turrialba, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This series, while all immature, range in size from 46 to 93 millimeters 

 in total length, and agree perfectly with each other in the character 

 of the lobes and nodes. The figure of Burmeister's type given by 

 Westwood^^ appears to represent a form having the lobes more rounded 

 and not so distinctly acuminate as in the Costa Rican individuals. 



Genus BACTERIA Lepeletier and Serville. 

 1827. Bacteria Lepeletier and Serville, Encj'clop. Method., Ins., X, p. 445. 

 Type. — Mantis ferula Fabricius { = arumatia Stoll)." 



^* As T have not had the opportunity to examine more than a single specimen of 

 the genera which Kirby (Trans. lAnn. Soc. London, 2dser., VI, p. 464) transferred 

 to tlie Heteronemince {Bacunculince Auct.), I have not accepted his action. It is 

 very evident that Bacteria at least is closely related to the Heteronemince, but 

 Kirby's remarks are so brief that we glean little regarding the characters on 

 which he proposes the removal. 



^^ Of the four original species of the genus but one (perfoliatus) has been 

 removed, and that to Ceroys by Serville in 1S39. 



'* Recerch. Zool. I'Amer. Cent., Mexiqne, Orth., p. ISO. 



'' Proc. Royal Dublin Soc., n. s., VI, p. .571. 



'« Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, PI. XXXVI, fig. 1. 



'* The name Bacteria was first used in the Latin form by Lepeletier and Ser- 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Bacteria cubensis (Saussure). 



1S6S. Phyhalomma Cvbensis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e 

 ser., XX, p. 67. [Cuba.] 



One female; Baracoa, Cuba, February 4, 1902. (William Palmer.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



As the female of this species has never before been recorded, a 

 description may prove of interest. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface smooth. Head somewhat 

 longitudinal, depressed, posterior portion constricted; interocular 

 region with several transverse depressions; occiput with a fine longi- 

 tudinal sulcus; eyes globose, very prominent; antennse not quite half 

 as long as the body, basal joint elongate-depressed. Pronotum longi- 

 tudinal, almost twice as long as broad ; transverse median depression 

 slightly in ad^^ance of the middle ; anterior portion with a transverse 

 depression immediately posterior to the anterior margin ; longitudinal 

 median carina slight. IMesonotum nearly six times as long as the 

 pronotum, subequal in width except for a shght anterior constriction 

 and a moderate expansion in the supra-coxal region. Metanotum 

 (with median segment) three-fifths the length of mesonotum; median 

 segment occupying about three-fifths the length of the whole segment. 

 Abdomen about equal to the thorax in length; four basal segments 

 longitudinal, equal in size; fifth dorsal segment somewhat inflated 

 apically; sixth segment compressed, tectate, carinate, slightly shorter 

 than the preceding segments in length ; seventh and eighth segments 

 subequal in size, tectate, carinate, the posterior portion of the carina 

 produced into a small rounded process ; ninth segment about equal to 

 the eighth in length, tectate, carinate, the lateral aspects each 

 bearing a low boss-like rounded swelling, apical margin with a very 

 shallow emargination, exposing the extreme tip of the supra-anal 

 plate ; cerci not half the length of the ninth dorsal segment, acuminate ; 

 subgenital opercule elongate, attenuate, apex decidedly acuminate, 

 reaching to the apex of the ninth dorsal segment. Anterior femora 

 and tibiae compressed, each almost equal to the mesonotum in length; 

 metatarsi equal to the remaining joints in length, superior surface 

 with a distinct foliaceous crest. Median femora and tibise somewhat 



ville, but is usually credited to Latreille. liatreille (Fam. Nat. Regn. Anim., p, 

 412, 1825) published simply the French form Bacterie, and included no species 

 under it. In 1807, Latreille (Gen. Crust, et Insect., Ill, pp. 87-88) divided the 

 stnus Phasma into two sections, the first of which he subdivided, and it was on 

 tlie second division of tlie first section that Lepeletier and Serville based their 

 genus. This division included three species, all of Fabricius, filiformis, ferula 

 and calamus. As the identification of these names is rather uncertain, I have 

 selected ferula as the type, as it is usually considered a synonym of arumatia 

 Stoll. wliich is based on a figure. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



compressed, each slightly exceedmg the metanotum in length; meta- 

 tarsi about as long as the remaining tarsal joints, not cristate. 

 Posterior femora somewhat compressed, equal to the three basal 

 abdominal joints in length; tibiae equal to the first three and half of the 

 fourth basal abdominal segments; metatarsi slightly exceeding the 

 remaining tarsal joints in length. 



General color gray-brown, the pronotum grayish ochraceous, head 

 with an indistinct blackish postocular bar. 



Measurements. 



Total leng-th, 82.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 23.7 '' 



Length of metanotum (with median segment), .... 14 " 



Length of median segment, 8 " 



Ivength of abdomen, 38 



Length of anterior femora, 22.1 



Length of anterior tibise, 22 



Length of median femora, 14.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 17.9 



Genus APLOPUS Gray. 



1835. Aplopus Gray, Synop. Ins. Fam. Phasmid., p. 34. 



Type. — A. micropterus (Lep. and Serv.) ( = Phasma angulata Stoll). 



Aplopus oytherea Westwood. 



1859. Haplopus Cyiherea Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 86, 

 PL XVIII, fig. 5. [San Domingo, Haiti.] 



Two specimens, male and female; "West Indies." [U. S. N. M.] 

 As the female of this species was previously unknown, a description 

 of the same is here appended. 



Size large; form elongate; surface of the thoracic segments sparsely 

 spinous. Head with the pair of occipital spines very prominent, the 

 left considerably smaller than the right; eyes globose; antennee equal 

 to the head and thorax in length, basal joint of comparatively small size. 

 Pronotum shghtly longer than broad, in general shape similar to the 

 male, the anterior pair of spines reduced in size and hardly larger than 

 a posterior pair. Mesonotum about four times the length of the pro- 

 notum, rather narrow anteriorly, very gradually expanding posteriorly; 

 spines disposed as in the male, but much less salient ; mesosternum with 

 an armature of obsolete spines disposed as in the male. Metanotum 

 shghtly more than half the length of the mesonotum. Tcgmina slightly 

 more than one-third the length of the mesonotum, ovate, coriaceous, 

 with the venation very distinct and irregularly disposed ; median pro- 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.. 



tiiberance longitudinal; rounded. Wings almost twice the length of 

 the tegmina; costal and discoidal regions coriaceous and subreticulate 

 as in the tegmina. Abdomen with the segments distinctly longitudinal ; 

 sixth dorsal segment some^^'hat expanded; seventh segment com- 

 pressed, almost equal to the sixth in length; eighth and ninth segments 

 subequal in length and width, together but slightly longer than the 

 seventh segment, the ninth carinatc and with the apex sinuate ; supra- 

 anal plate small, transverse, subtriangular, not half the length of the 

 ninth dorsal segment; cerci short, conoid, not as long as the supra-anal 

 plate; subgenital plate cyml^iform, carinate, elongate, exceeding the 

 apex of the supra-anal plate by the length of the fifth and sixth abdomi- 

 nal segments, apex narrowly rounded. Anterior femora three-fourths 

 the leng-th of the mesonotum, basal flexure sharp; tibise slightly longer 

 than the femora; metatarsi somewhat shorter than the remaining tar- 

 sal joints. Median femora equal to the anterior femora in leng-th. 

 inferior surface with three spines on the apical portion of the mediai: 

 line, the anterior and posterior margins each apically with a single 

 spine; tibia? about equal to the femora in length; metatarsi hardly 

 more than half the leng-th of the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior 

 femora exceeding the other femora and equal to the first, second and 

 half of the third basal abdominal segments in length, anterior inferior 

 margin with two apical spines, median line of the inferior surface witl> 

 three spines, posterior inferior margin with a single apical spine; tibia- 

 slightly exceeding the femora in length; metatarsi but slightly shorter 

 than the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color (from spirits) vinaceous brown, metathorax with thi 

 pleura bearing a longitudinal whitish bar, a style of coloration alsr< 

 found on the lateral portions of the base of the subgenital opercule. 



Measurejnents. 



Total length, 128 ^ mn: 



Length of pronotum, 5.7 '" 



Length of mesonotum, 27.5 '' 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 15.7 " 



Length of tegmina, 10 '" 



Length of wings, 12.5 '" 



Length of abdomen (including subgenital opercule), ... 79 " 



Length of subgenital opercule, 27.5 '' 



Length of anterior femora, 19.5 '' 



Length of anterior tibiae, ' 20.5 '' 



Length of median femora, 19 '" 



Length of posterior femora 23 




1904.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Aplopus similis n. sp. 



Types. — c? (immature) and 9 ; Swan Island, Caribbean Sea. [Cat. 

 No. 7,343, U. S. N. M.] 



Closely allied to A. ligia Westwood,^''' but differing in the much 

 shorter antenna, longer mesonotum and posterior limbs, the different 

 character of the lateral expansions of the sixth abdominal segment, and 

 the decidedly shorter subgenital opercule. 



c?. — Size medium; form rather elongate. Head slightly longitudi- 

 nal; occiput with two large acute spines of Avhich the right is the larger, 

 posterior margin of the head with a pair of small median spines ; eyes 

 subglobose; antennae stout, somewhat depressed, slightly exceeding in 

 length the head, pronotum and mesonotum, basal joint oblong, strongly 

 depressed. Pronotum slightly longitudinal, anterior margin concave, 

 posterior margin convex, lateral margins with a very prominent and 

 deep semicircular emargination ; transverse sulci two in number, one 

 prominent and immediately posterior to the anterior margin, the other 

 submedian and shallower in character ; anterior half of the pronotum 

 with two pairs of spines, the anterior of which is more distinct than the 

 posterior, the remaining portion of the surface granulate. Mesonotum 

 equal to the three basal abdominal segments; anterior portion con- 

 stricted, gradually expanding to near the median portion, which is 

 equal to the posterior width ; surface with five pairs of irregularly placed 

 spines, two pairs being very close to the anterior margin, while more 

 than the posterior third of the whole surface is free from spines ; lateral 

 margins with an even row of low tubercles ; mesothoracic pleura w^ith 

 a number of subobsolete protuberances ; mesosternum with four pairs 

 of low evenly placed tubercles. Metanotum about two-thirds the length 

 of the mesonotum, median segment occupying very slightly more than 

 half the length; metasternum with a few very obsolete tubercles. 

 Tegmina and wings not developed, the rudiments very small. Abdo- 

 men considerably exceeding the head and thoracic segments in length: 

 five basal segments longitudinal, simple, the fourth and fifth slightly 

 shorter than the first to third; sixth segment longitudinal, slightly- 

 shorter than the fifth in length, the posterior lateral portions developed 

 into smaller triangular lobes; seventh segment slightly shorter than 

 the sixth; eighth and ninth segments smaller than the preceding seg- 

 ments, equal in length, both carinate, apical portion of the ninth 

 truncate and with a distinct thickened elevated rim; cerci short, thick 

 and rounded, but slightly exceeding the apex of the ninth segment; 

 subgenital opercule large, slightly exceeding the eighth dorsal segment 



20 Catul. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 89, PI. XI, figs. 1 and 2. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



in length. Limbs distinctly carinate. Anterior femora equal to the 

 metanotum and half of the first abdominal segment in length, basal 

 flexure very marked, median line of the inferior surface with two apical 

 spines; tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, the superior sur- 

 face with a slight distal swelling ; metatarsi but little shorter than the 

 remaining tarsal joints. Median femora somewhat shorter than the 

 anterior femora, superior margins each with a slight preapical Idbe, 

 anterior and posterior inferior margins serrulate, the former with two 

 preapical spines, the latter with one, inferior median line with four 

 evenly distributed spines; tibiae not quite equalling the femora in 

 length, distinct subbasal and preapical swellings developed; meta- 

 tarsi about half the length of the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior 

 femora but slightly shorter than the mesonotum in length, slight 

 superior preapical lobes developed as in the anterior limbs, spine 

 arrangement as in the median limbs except that the median line bears 

 five spines; tibiae equal to the femora in length, the swellings of the 

 median limbs but slightly represented ; metatarsi about two-thirds the 

 length of the remaining tarsal joints. 



? . — Size large; form elongate. Head slightly ovate; occipital pro- 

 cesses acute, much as in the male, but large and distinct ; spines on the 

 posterior margin of the head small but acute; eyes subglobose; an- 

 tennae about equal to the thoracic segments in length, filiform, basal 

 joint depressed and with the lower surface concave. Pronotum about 

 equal to the head in length; margins as in the male; spines numerous 

 and rather regularly distributed, of moderate height, the anterior 

 pair slightly exceeding the others in size. Mesonotum slightly exceed- 

 ing the three basal joints of the abdomen in length, general shape very 

 similar to that of the male ; surface with numerous spines of not very 

 regular distribution, a defined lateral row of evenl}^ sized spines being 

 present; mesothoracic pleura well spined; mesosternum with over 

 twelve rather low spines. Metanotum not quite equal to the two basal 

 abdominal segments in length; median segment equal to the first 

 abdominal segment in length; metathoracic pleura with a longitudinal 

 row of about nine rather even spines. Tegmina rather more than 

 half the length of the metanotum (including median segment), ovate, 

 coriaceous; median protuberance low, rounded; venation very appa- 

 rent, subreticulate. Wings equal to the tegmina in length, costal and 

 discoidal areas subreticulate as in the tegmina. Abdomen with the 

 segments all more or less longitudinal; five basal segments subequal 

 in length; the first, second and third with a median pair of small 

 spiniform processes placed close to the apical margin; sixth. segment 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



slightly shorter than the fifth, slightly amplicate, the lateral margins 

 gently rounded; seventh segment compressed, equal to the sixth in 

 length ; eighth and ninth segments together about equal in length to the 

 preceding segment, the ninth with the apical margin rectangulate, the 

 apex with a triangular emargination exposing the rectangulate and 

 carinate apex of the supra-anal plate ; cerci very stout and short, de- 

 pressed, not exceeding the apex of the ninth dorsal segment, subgenital 

 opercule very long, exceeding the tip of the supra-anal plate by the 

 length of the seventh and eighth segments, hastate, carinate, apex 

 rectangulate. Anterior femora three-fourths the length of the meso- 

 notum, basal flexure decided; tibiae equal to the femora in length; 

 metatarsi not quite as long as the remaining tarsal joints. Median 

 femora equal to the first two basal segments of the abdomen in length, 

 anterior and posterior inferior margins as in the male, the inferior 

 median line with five or six spines ; tibiae equal to the femora in length, 

 the structiu"e similar to that of the male but less apparent ; metatarsi 

 but little more than half the length of the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Posterior femora equal to the first two and a half of the third abdominal 

 segments, the margins as in the male, the inferior median line with five 

 or six spines ; tibiae equal to the femora in length and with the structure 

 very similar; metatarsi shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color (from spirits) dull ochraceous, the nine prominent 

 spines tipped with black; tegmina with the venation dull cream on a 

 blackish ground; wings with the costal and discoidal areas similar to 

 the tegmina, posterior field pearl-white with the nerves purplish- 

 black. 



Measurements. 



6" 9 ■ 



Total length, 78 mm. 134 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 6.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 17.5 " 29.5 " 



Length of metanotum (including median seg- 

 ment), 11.5 " 17 " 



I^ength of median segment, 6 " 9.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 10 " 



Length of wings, 10 " 



Length of abdomen, 42 " 82 " 



Length of anterior femora, 14 '' 21.5 '' 



Length of anterior tibiae, 13.7 " 22.5 " 



Length of median femora, ' 12.7 " 18.7 " 



Length of posterior femora, 15.5 " 24.5 " 



Length of subgenital opercule (from extreme 



base), 28.5 " 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Aplopus achalus"' n. sp. 



Type.— d" ; Acljuntas, Porto Rico, April 12, 1900. (Dr. C. W. Rich- 

 mond.) [Cat. No. 7,344, U. S. N. M.] 



Compared with jamaicensis Drurj^, the closest allied species, this new 

 form may be separated by the unarmed head and mesonotum, the 

 longer tegmina, the slenderer and weaker Hmbs, and the coloration. It 

 appears very unhkely that this is the male of angulata St oil {=mi- 

 cropterus Lep. and Serv.), as the female of that species has very promi- 

 nent cephahc spines, and in all respects resembles the females of other 

 species of the genus, the known males of which are very different from 

 this in structure. Stoll's species was recorded from Porto Rico by 

 Haan,22 but there appears no likelihood that this new form is at all 

 closely allied to it. 



Size rather small; form moderately elongate; surface subglabrous. 

 Head ovate, depressed; occiput without spines; eyes subglobose. 

 Antennse equal to the head, thorax and tegmina in length, robust, fili- 

 form, basal joint depressed, the inferior siu-face concave. Pronotum 

 subquadrate, somewhat constricted posteriorly, anterior margin con- 

 cave, the posterior convex; transverse anterior sulcus obsolete cen- 

 trally, transverse median sulcus distinct, strongly impressed, 

 longitudinal median sulcus slight, not extending the whole 

 length of the pronotum. Mesonotum slightly over three times the 

 length of the pronotum, gradually expanding posteriorly, surface with 

 several irregular obsolete tubercles. Metanotum equal to the meso- 

 notum in length; metathoracic pleura and metasterniun rugulose; 

 the whole metathorax depressed. Tegmina equal to the mesonotum 

 in length, acute-oVate; median protuberance somewhat longitudinal, 

 acute. Wings long, reaching to the seventh abdominal segment. 

 Abdomen with all the segments more or less longitudinal, gradually 

 decreasing in size from the base to the sixth segment ; sixth and follow- 

 ing segments distinctly carinate and tectate; seventh and eighth seg- 

 ments of the same general form, the latter slightly the shorter; ninth 

 segment slightly shorter than the eighth segment, somewhat con- 

 stricted toward the apex, apical margin subtruncate with a very broad 

 and shallow median emargination ; cerci about two-thirds the length, 

 subequal, apex blunt ; subgenital opercule very slightly exceeding the 

 apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, cymbiform, carinate, apex 

 rounded with a narrow median triangular emargination. Anterior 

 femora equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length, basal flexure 



21 axay^og, i.e., unarmed. 



^'^ Verhandl. Natuurl. GescMed. Nederl. Overzeesche Bezitt., Orth., p. 103, 1842. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 69 



strongly marked; tibise slightly shorter than the femora; metatarsi 

 but slightly more than half the length of the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Median femora a trifle longer than the tegmina, anterior inferior margin 

 with two and the posterior inferior margin with one apical spine, 

 median line with one spine which is more or less obsolete ; tibiae con- 

 siderably shorter than the femora and almost equalling the mesonotum 

 in length; metatarsi equalled in length by the second and third tarsal 

 joints. Posterior femora equal to the first, second and half of the third 

 abdominal segment, anterior inferior margin with two and the posterior 

 with one apical spine, median line with two subapical spines; tibiae 

 about three-fourths the length of the femora; metatarsi equal to the 

 second, third and fourth tarsal joints in length. 



General color pale yellowish-green, "washed with brownish on the 

 head, pronotum and mesonotum; tegmina and wings with the veins 

 darker than the basic color, costal margin of the tegmina and the base 

 of the same region of the wing opaque-white, discoidal area of the teg- 

 mina smoky-brown, posterior field of the tegmina milky- white; an- 

 tennae and an obscure postocular bar pale purplish; marginal femoral 

 spines black. 



Measurements. 



achalus jamaicensis 



& d 



Total length, 61.5 mm. 65 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 " 3 " 



Length of mesonotum 9 " 9.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 10 " 8.2 '' 



Length of wings, 39 " 36.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 11.8 " 11.5 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 10 " 10 " 



Length of median femora, 11 " 10 " 



Lengthof posterior femora, 14.8 " 13.5 " 



Genus ISCHNOPODA Grandidier. 



1869. Ischnopoda Grandidier, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XXI, 

 p. 293. • 



Type. — /. reyi Grandidier. 



Ischnopoda phillipsi Kirby. 



1897. Ischnopoda Phillipsi Kirby, Trans. Linn. Soo. London, 2d ser., VI, 



p. 467. [Somaliland.] 

 1901. Palophus reyi Rehn (not of Auct.), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, 



p. 288. [Somaliland or Gallaland ; no exact data.] 



The individual recorded by the author in the above-mentioned paper 

 is seen on second examination to be distinct from reyi, and appears to 

 be identical with Kirby's phillipsi. A few discrepancies exist, how- 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ever, in the measurements, the posterior femora of the type being 

 eleven millimeters shorter than that of the specimen collected by Dr. 

 A. Donaldson Smith, in the collection of the Academy. 



Genus BACTRODODEMA St&l. 

 1859. Bactrododema Stal, Ofver, K, Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandl., 1858, p. 308. 

 . Type.— 5. tiarata Stales 



Bactrododema miliaris Bolivar? 



1890. B[actrododema] miliaris Bolivar, Jornal Sci. Math. Phys. Nat. Acad. 

 Real Sci., Lisboa, 2a ser., I, p. 87. [San Thom^, West Africa.] 



One female; Gaboon river. West Africa. (Dr. Henry A. Ford.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



This specimen does not wholly agree with Bolivar's description of 

 the species, differing in the bowed median and posterior femora, in 

 which respect it approaches B. welwitschi Bolivar (ibid., p. 88) from 

 Golungo Alto, but from that is separated by the character of the ceph- 

 alic spines and the longer wings. Westwood's cestuans appears to be 

 a very distinct form. 



Genus TIRACHOIDEA Brunner. 



1893. Tirachoidea Brunner, Ann. Mu^. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, 2a ser., XIII, 

 p. 83. 



Included Phibalosoma cantori Westwood, Ph. Mjpharpax Westw., Ph. 



tiarchus Westw. and Cyphocrania tamyris Westw., of which the first, 



cantori, may be taken as the type, as both sexes are known. 



Tirachoidea cantori (Westwood). 



1859. Phibalosoma Cantori Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 74, 

 PI. XXXVII, fig. 1 (J'), and PI. XXXVIII, fig. 1 ( ? ). [Malacca.] 



One male ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 This specirnen agrees perfectly with Westwood's figure, except that 



the ninth abdominal segment is very slightly shorter and the two arms 



of the same less curved. 



23 As some orthopterists do not recognize this genus as distinct from Palophus 

 Westwood, and both names being ostensibly published in 1859, the author ex- 

 amined the works containing each, to ascertain, if possible, which had priority. 

 St&l's work was presented for publication in 1858, but obviously did not appear 

 until 1859, the copy of the work in the librarj^ of the Academy having been re- 

 ceived May 22, 1860 ; and while the Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Lon- 

 don give no clue as to the date of receipt of the 1858 volume, the 1859 volume is 

 stated to have been received during 1860. Assuming the numbers to have a))- 

 peared regularly, this would place the 1858 portion as appearing during 1859. 

 Westwood's work, bearing the date June 1, 1859, on the Preface, was received 

 at the Academy January 10, 1860, but is not mentioned in the Proceedings of 

 the Entomological Society of London until August 6, 1860. In the Proceedings of 

 the. Boston Society of Natural History, the 1858 Ofversigt is entered as received 

 between April and June 30, 1860. From the above it will be seen that the dates 

 of publication are very close, and the question of priority is one I am unable to 

 settle at present. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Genus ORXINES Stil. 

 1875. Orxines Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 43 and 87. 

 Included Phasma (Lopaphus) macMottii Haan, Anophelepis xiphias 

 Westwood, and Necroscia zeuxis Westwood ; of which xiphias may be 

 selected as the tj^pe, as Westwood has given good figures of both sexes. 



Orxines xiphias (Westwood). 



1859. Anophelepis Xiphias Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 71, 

 PI. IV, fig. 4 (cJ*) and fig. 5 ($). [Amboina.] 



Foiu' specimens; one male, three females; Island of Obi, Moluccas. 

 [Coll. of Mr. Morgan Hebard and Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



These specimens differ slightly from Westwood's figures, the meso- 

 notum and metanotum (without the median segment) being slightly 

 longer, but the discrepancies are so slight it would be very difficult to 

 satisfactorily differentiate them from the Amboina form. 



Subfamily NECROSCIN^. 



Genus SOSIBIA Stai. 



1875. Sosibia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 42 and 87. 



Type. — S. nigrispina Stal. 



Sosibia nigrispina StM. 



1875. S[osihia\ nigrispina Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 87. 

 [Malacca.] 



One female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S, 

 N. M.] 



This specimen, which otherwise agrees very well with Stal's descrip- 

 tion, has the cephalic spines with more greenish than blackish colora- 

 tion. The median tibia? are exceptionally short, but Stal makes no 

 mention of this rather striking condition. 



Genus CALVISIA StM. 

 1875. Calvisia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 42 and 87. 

 Included Necroscia sangariiis, medora, virhius and hcmus Westwood, 

 of wliich the first can be selected as the type. 



Calvisia viridilineata (Bates). 



1866. Necroscia viridilineata Bates, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XXV, p. 352. 

 [Ceram.] 



One female; Island of Obi, Moluccas. [Coll. of ^Morgan Hebard.] 



This agrees perfectly with Bates' description, except that the general 



tint of the limbs is more brownish than greenish, but this of course may 



be due to drying. SthVs 'maculiceps and thishe from the PhilipiDines^* 



appear to be closely related to this species. 



2* dfversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 1877, No. 10, p. 42. 




72 PIIOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Calvisia graminea (Bates). 



1SG6. Necroscia graminea Bates, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XX\', p. 356. 



fBatchian.] ($) 

 1866. Necroscia smaragdula Bate.?, Trans. Linn. Soe. London, XX^', p. 357. 



[Gilolo and Batchian.] ( J^) 



Eight specimens; four males, fom- females; Island of Obi, Moluccas. 

 [A. N. S. Phila. and collection of Morgan Hebard.] 



It appears to me that the above names were based on different 

 sexes of the same species. The specimens examined agree almost 

 absolutely with the descriptions, and such characters as the annulation 

 of the antennse and the structure of the pronotum and the head, as well 

 as the extent of the rugosity of the mesonotum, are identical in the two 

 sexes. Bates says the tegmina of the male "are of a yellowish colour, 

 brown towards their tips, but sometimes uniform 3'ellow." All the 

 four males examined have tlie coloration uniform. 



The rugosity of the mesonotum of both sexes is distinctly more pro- 

 nounced anteriorly, which also holds true regarding the mesosternmn. 



The rangf^ of this species now covers Gilolo. Batchian and Obi, of 

 the MoJuccan grou]). 



Calvisia maculicollis (Westwood). 



1848. Phnsma {Necroscia) macidicollis Westwood, Cabinet Orient. Entom., 



PI. XXXVIII, fig. 2. [Assam and Sylbet.] 

 1893. Cialmsict] airosignata Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Geneva, 



XXXIII, p. 85, tab.' Ill, fig. 27. [Bhamo, Burma and Meetan, Tenas- 



serim.] 



One female ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 After critically examining the figures of Westwood's maculicollis 

 and Brunner's atrosignata, there appeals to be no doubt but that they 

 are based on the same species. Brunner's specimens are described as 

 being more uniform in the coloration of the costal portion of the 

 wings, l^ut the Trong specimen agrees exactly with Westwood's figure. 

 This species has been recorded from Java by Westwood and Sumatra 

 by Brunner, as well as from the localities mentioned above. 



Calvisia nigrofasciata (Haan). 



1842. P[hasma] (Necroscia) nigrofasciatuni Haan, Verliandel. Xatuurlijke 

 Geschied. Nederl. overzees. Bezitt., Orth., p. 122. [Batang Singalang.] 



One male ; Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 

 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Ililler.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 



This specimen agrees very well with Haan's very brief description. 

 A pecuhar coloration not noticed in the original diagnosis is the longi- 

 tudinal black and greenish-white lined limits and antenna. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Genus MARMESSOIDEA Brunner. 



1893. Mannessoidea Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, XXXIII, 

 pp. 84 and 85. 



Included marmessus Westwood and ruhescens Saussure, of which 



the former was considered the type by Brunner {vide supra, p. 86). 



Marmessoidea marmessus (Westwood). 



1859. Necroscia Marmessus Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 149, 

 PI. XIX, figs. 1 and 7, PL XXIX, fig. 4. [Malacca; Sarawak, Borneo; 

 Sumatra.] 



Four specimens; two males, two females; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. 

 W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] Goenong Soegi, Ijampong, Sumatra. 

 October-November, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



The male from Sumatra has the maculations of the tegmina circular, 

 as in the form provisionally named euryhates by Westwood. The two 

 Trong specimens are both typical individuals. 



Marmessoidea cercyon (Westwood). 



1859. Necroscia cercyon Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 146, 

 PI. XXXIV, fig. 1. [Pulo Penang, Malacca.] 



One female; Khow Sai Dow, Trong, Lower Siam (1,000 feet). Janu- 

 ary-February, 1899. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



As the female of this species has never been described, a few notes on 

 the abdominal appendages and the measurements may be of interest- 



Ninth dorsal segment strongly tectate, the median ridge very promi- 

 nent, apex bluntly angulate. Cerci subequal, apically blunt, very 

 slightly exceeding the apex of the subgenital opercule. Subgenital oper- 

 cule cymbiform, acmninate ; apex very deeply and narrowly emarginate. 



jMeasurements. 



Total length, 76.3 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of mesonotum, 13.5 " 



Length of abdomen, 41 " 



Length of tegmina, 7.2 " 



Length of wings, 44 " 



Length of anterior femora, 21 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 22 " 



Length of median femora, 13.5" 



I^ength of posterior femora, 19.5 " 



Marmessoidea pMuctainoides-^ n. sp. 



Types. — (J and $ ; Yokohama, Japan. (Rev, H, Loomis.) [Coll. 

 A, N. S. Phila. (types) and A. N. Caudell.] 



^» c>?^vKTaivoEL6?/(^ i.e.. pimpU^. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



Allied to M. sumatrensis Brancsik^^ from Sumatra, but differing in 

 the shorter mesonotum, the compressed ninth abdominal segment, the 

 non-annulate antennae and the different color pattern of the tegmina- 

 Brancsik's Necroscia papuana from Xew Guinea and Westwood's 

 ismene from Borneo are apparently related to phluctainoidcs , but very 

 distinct species. 



d*. — Size rather small; form slender; surface of head subgiabrous, 

 of thoracic segments granulose. Head rather large, moderately de- 

 pressed, somewhat inflated, the posterior portion subequal in width, 

 occiput with a faint median sulcus; eyes ovate, prominent; basal joint 

 of the antennae slightly depressed, longer than broad, second joint 

 longer than broad and not equal to the basal joint in size, total length 

 of the antennae about equal to that of the abdomen. Pronotum quad- 

 rate, with a fine median longitudinal sulcus and a well-marked trans- 

 verse sulcus which is placed before the middle. Mesonotum somewhat 

 over three times the length of the pronotum, subequal anteriorly, 

 slightly expanded posteriorly, very distinct median and lateral carinae 

 present, all becoming rather evanescent posteriorly, surface rugoso- 

 tuberculate. Tegmina short, subtruncate apically, raised portion of 

 moderate elevation, rounded. Wings large, damaged in the type, 

 but apparently reaching the apex of the abdomen in the perfect speci- 

 men. Abdomen slender, the six basal segments longitudinal and 

 slightly decreasing in length apically; eighth segment slightly longer 

 than the seventh, both carinate, the seventh slightly expanded apically, 

 the eighth slightly compressed; ninth segment about equal to the sev- 

 enth in length, compressed, subtectate, apex truncate when viewed 

 from the dorsum; cerci about reaching to the apex of the ninth seg- 

 ment, subequal, slightly incurved; supra-anal plate absent; subgenital 

 opercule reaching to the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, rotundato- 

 truncate. Anterior femora somewhat exceeding the pronotum and 

 mesonotum in length, considerably curved basally; tibiae slightlj'- 

 shorter than the femora; metatarsi very slender, equal to the remaining 

 tarsal joints in length. Median and posterior limbs absent. 



General color purplish-brown, rather pale on the proximal portion 

 of the anterior femora. Tegmina with the elevation black, bordered 

 laterally by a longitudinal bar of pinkish-white, which extends to the 

 apex of the tegmina. Wings pinkish-purple. 



? . — Size medium ; form rather robust ; surface of mesonotum and 

 tegmina rugose. Head inflated, slightly elongate; eyes ovate, mod- 



2® Jahresheft des Naturvnssenschafilichen Vereines des Trencsener Comitates, 

 XIV-XV, p. 201, tab. xi, fig. 11 (J'). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



eratety prominent; antennte slightly exceeding half the length of the 

 body, basal joint longitudinal and considerably depressed, second joint 

 cylindrical, considerably smaller than the basal joint. Pronotiim 

 quadrate, very slightly constricted posteriorly, anterior margin with 

 a shallow emargination, median sulcus not marked posteriorly, the trans- 

 verse ante-median sulcus very distinct. ]\Iesonotum ec|ual in length 

 to the posterior tibiae, rather broad, gradually expanding posteriorly; 

 median and lateral carinse very distinct; surface rugoso-tuberculate. 

 Tegmina short, subquadrate; apex subtruncate; elevated point slight, 

 low and rounded. Wings short, reaching to the apex of the third 

 abdominal segment, width about three-fourths of the length; costal 

 area coarsely reticulate ; radial vein furcate. Abdomen somewhat in- 

 flated, the six basal segments all transverse and subequal in length, the 

 second and third of the greatest and the sixth of the least width ; seventh 

 and eighth segments tectate, subequal in length ; ninth segment slightly , 

 longer than the eighth, the apex somewhat produced, truncate and with 

 a slight triangular median emargination; supra-anal plate with the 

 apex alone visible; cerci straight, reaching to the apex of the ninth 

 segment; subgenital opercule tectate, acuminate, the tip acute and 

 reacliing to the apex of the eighth segment. Egg almost ready to 

 deposit in position in oviduct, general shape apparently oval, surface 

 rugose. Limbs short, terminal tarsal joint of each foot provided with 

 a large arolium. Anterior femora slightly exceeding the mesonotum 

 in length, basal section strongly bowed ; tibiae sHghtly shorter than the 

 femora; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Median femora and tibiae short, the former slightly longer than the 

 latter, neither exceeding the length of the two basal segments of the 

 abdomen; metatarsi considerably shorter than the remaining joints of 

 the tarsi. Posterior femora but slightly shorter than the pronotmn and 

 mesonotum together; tibiae shghtly shorter than the femora; meta- 

 tarsi much shorter than the remaining tarsal joints, the second joint 

 alone being half the length of the metatarsus. 



General color grass-green, most intense on the mesonotum, tegmina 

 and costal region of the wdngs. Antennae dull purplish, pale basally; 

 eyes wood-brown, with a narrow longitudinal bar of darker brown; 

 postocular region with a faint line of yellowish. Mesonotum with the 

 lateral carinae chrome-yellow. Tegmina with the chrome-yellow line 

 of the mesonotum continued to the apical margin, flanked internally 

 by a line of blackish. Wings with the posterior portion roseate- 

 pink. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Measurements. 



Total length, 40 mm. 50 mm. 



Length of pronotiim, 1.7 " 2.5 " 



Length of mesonotmii, 7 " 10 " 



Length of tegmma, 2.5 " 3 " 



Length of wmgs, 19+ " 16.5 " 



Length of abdomen, 22.5 " 26.5 " 



Length of anterior femora. 11 " 11.5 '' 



Length of anterior tibise, 9.5 '' 9.5 " 



Length of median femora, 7.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 11.7 " 



This species is based on a series of sixteen individuals, fifteen of which 

 are females. No appreciable difference exists in all the series, except 

 in the intensity of the green coloration of the body, which is clearly due 

 ^ to the fading of the natural tint. 



Genus SIPYLOIDEA Brunner. 



1893. Sipyloidea Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Xat. Geneva, XXXIII, 

 pp. 84 and 86. 



Included Necroscia chlorotica Serville, TV. sipyhis, samsoo, sarpedori 

 and pancetius Westwood, of which Brunner selected sipylus as the type. 



Sipyloidea sipylus (Westwood). 



1859. Necroscia Sipylus Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 138, 

 PI. XVIII, fig. 4. tAssam; Java.] 



Three specimens; one male, two females; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. 

 W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This species has been recorded from Bhamo and Carin Cheba, Burma, 

 Assam, Malacca, Sumatra, Java and Borneo. The form from the latter 

 island was provisionally separated by Westwood as ivarasaca. 



Sipyloidea scabra (StS.])? 



1877. N[ecroscin] scabra Stal, Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhand- 

 lingar, 1877, No. 10, p. 43. [Philippines.] 



Two males; Island of Obi, ^^loluccas. [Coll. of Morgan Hebard 

 and A. N. S. Phila., presented by Mr. Hebard.] 



These specimens agree fairly Avell with Stal's very brief description, 

 but that individuals from the two localities are identical is, to say the 

 least, doubtful. A very peculiar feature of these individuals is the 

 continuous ventral line extending from the prosternum to the apical 

 portion of the abdomen. Several other species related to tliis form are 

 sarpedon and samsoo Westwood, and possibh' jamis Bates and ceramia 

 Westwood. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 77 



Sipyloidea poeciloptera-' n. sp. 



Types.— d^ and 9 ; Island of Obi, Molucca^. [A. N. S. Phila., pre- 

 sented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



As this species does not appear to be closely related to any of the 

 previously known species, I have compared it with the type of the 

 genus. The new form differs from S. sipylits in the smaller size, the 

 very weak character of the granulations on the mesonotum, the some- 

 what slenderer and less coriaceous tegmina, the blunter character of 

 the apex of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment and the more acumi- 

 nate apical portion of the subgenital opercule. 



cJ*. — Size mediiun; form elongate; surface smooth. Head slightly 

 oblong, dorsal surface flat, the occiput wdth a slight median longi- 

 tudinal sulcus; eyes ovate, prominent; antennae slightly exceeding the 

 body in length. Pronotum longitudinal, about twice as long as broad, 

 subequal in width, transverse sulcus in advance of the middle. Meso- 

 notum about three and a half times the length of the pronotum, very 

 slender, very slightly constricted centrally ; surface with a few obsolete 

 granulations and a weak longitudinal median carina. Tegmina ovate, 

 the apex sub-truncate, median protuberance of medium height and 

 rather blunt. Wings equal to the mesonotum and about two-thirds the 

 abdomen in length. Abdomen with the seventh and eighth segments 

 subequal in length, and exceeding the ninth, which is somewhat tectate 

 and apically subtruncate with a very shallow median emargination ; 

 cerci short, stout, subequal, extending but slightly beyond the ninth 

 dorsal segment; subgenital opercule not quite reaching the apex of the 

 eighth dorsal segment, moderately compressed, apex rather broadly 

 rounded. Limbs very slender. Anterior femora equal to about half 

 the length of the abdomen, basal flexm-e slight; tibiae about equal to 

 the femora in length; metatarsi considerably exceeding the remaining 

 joints in length. Median femora equal to the mesonotum and tegmina 

 in length; tibiae shghtly shorter than the femora in length; metatarsi 

 very shghtly longer than the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora 

 about equal to the anterior femora in length; tibiae equal to the femora 

 in length; metatarsi exceeding the remaining tarsal joints in length. 



9 . — Size medium. Head suboval, not constricted posterior to the 

 eyes; occiput with a distinct longitudinal median sulcus; eyes ovate; 

 antennae about two-thirds the length of the body. Pronotum as in 

 the male, but the transverse sulcus is not so anterior in position. 

 Mesonotum three times the length of the pronotum, slightly expanding 

 posteriorly, median carina very fine, subobsolete. Tegmina ovate, 



^^ TvoLKi'AoTTTepoq — variegated wings. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the apex somewhat truncate; costal region very broadly arcuate; 

 median protuberance longitudinal, low and rounded. Wings equal 

 to the abdomen in length; when in repose the tips are distinctly acumi- 

 nate. Abdomen with the seventh, eighth and ninth dorsal segments 

 subequal in length, the latter subtectate and distinctly" acuminate; 

 subgenital opercule acuminate, reaching to the middle of the ninth dor- 

 sal segment. Anterior femora slightly compressed, almost equal to 

 the head, pronotiun and mesonotum in length; tibiae slightly shorter 

 than the femora. Median femora equal to the mesonotum and half 

 of the pronotum in length; tibia3 about five-sixths the length of the 

 femora; metatarsi but slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Posterior femora about as long as the head, pronotmii and mesonotum; 

 tibiae equal to the femora. 



General color pea-green, dark dull in the female. Antennae greenish- 

 brown, with the base of each joint encircled by a narrow whitish annu- 

 lus, this latter character more apparent in the male than in the female. 

 Pronotum in the male flecked with small circular blotches of cream. 

 Tegmina and costal region of wings pea-green, in the female the tips 

 of the latter touched with rosy red ; posterior field of the wdngs pale 

 pinkish. Apex of the abdomen and portions of the limbs in the female 

 washed with rosy red. 



Measurements. 



liength of body, 57 mm. 73 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 '" 4 " 



Length of mesonotum. 10.5 " 12.5 '" 



Length of abdomen, 35 *' 44 " 



Length of tegmina, 3.5 " 5.5 " 



Length of wings, .30 '' 44.5 " 



Length of anterior femora 19.2 " 19 '' 



Length of anterior tibia?, . 18.2 " 18.5 " 



Length of median femora, -.13 '' 15 " 



Length of posterior femora, 18 '' 19.5 "' 



Genus ARUANOIDEA Brunner. 



1893. Arunnoidea Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Xat. Genova, XXXIII, 

 p. 84. 



Included salmancizar, oruana and osmylus of Westwood, of which 

 aruana may be considered the type. 



Aruanoidea aruana (Westwood).| 



1859. Necroscia Aruana Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 134, 

 PI. XXXIX, fig. 4. [Aru Islands.] 



Fifteen specimens; eleven males, four females; Island of Obi, "Mo- 

 luccas. [Coll. of j\Ir. ^lorgan Hebard and A. N. S. Phila., presented 

 ty Mr. Hebard.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



This species has two well-marked color phases, one pea-green, the 

 other dull wood-brown. The males all belong to the latter phase, and 

 have the internal edge of the tegmina and the internal edge of the basal 

 portion of the wings with a rather broad longitudinal bar of dull 

 3^ellowish. 



The following description is of the male, which appears never to have 

 been recorded. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface granulosc. Head somewhat 

 depressed, posterior portion of subequal width; occiput with a very 

 deep longitudinal sulcus ; eyes subovate ; ocelli distinct; antennae equal 

 to the body in length. Pronotum distinctly longitudinal, twice as long 

 as broad ; anterior margin broadly emarginate, posterior margin broadly 

 arcuate, lateral margins bearing a rather acute process anteriorly; 

 transverse sulci two in numl3er, one immediately posterior to the ante- 

 rior margin, the other just anterior to the middle. ]\Iesonotum dis- 

 tinctly tuberculate (a condition shared by the meso- and metasternum 

 and pleura), slender, subequal; median carina rather broad, low. 

 Tegmina subpyriform, apex obliquely truncate; costal field subequal 

 in width; median protuberance very distinct. Wings about twice the 

 length of the head, pronotum and mesonotum together. Abdomen 

 with the seventh and eighth dorsal segments subequal in length, cari- 

 nate, the ninth shghtly shorter than the eighth, apical emargination very 

 deep, expanded, the lateral portions incurved and enclosing the expanded 

 sinus; cerci subequal in width, not quite equal to the ninth segment in 

 length; subgenital opercule reaching to the tip of the eighth dorsal seg- 

 ment, cymbiform, apex narrowly rounded. Anterior femora with the 

 basal flexure moderately distinct, equal to the head, pronotum, meso- 

 notum and tegmina in length; tibiae equal to the femora in length; 

 metatarsi nearly twice as long as the following tarsal joint. Median 

 femora equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length; tibiae some- 

 what shorter than the femora ; metatarsi about equal to the remaining 

 tarsal joints in length. Posterior femora and tibiae about equal to the 

 anterior in length; metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining tarsal 

 joints. 



General color dull wood-brown, blotched and suffused with dull 

 ochraceous, the limbs obscurely annulate. Tegmina with a spot on 

 the median protuberance and the internal border as well as the adjoin- 

 ing portion of the wings dull yellow; posterior field of wings vinaceous. 

 Antennae dull brownish-ochraceous with obsolete annuli of a dark 

 l^rown. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Measurements. 



Total length, 61 mm. 



Length of pr on otum, 3.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 10 " 



Length of abdomen, 38 " 



Length of tegmina, 4 " 



Length of wings, 34 " 



Length of anterior fem( )] a , 19.5 " 



Length of anterior tibia^ 19.5 " 



Length of median femoia 13.5 " 



Length of posterior femoia 18.5 " 



This locality extends the range of the species considerably to the 

 westward. 



Aruanoidea punctata (Gray). 



1835. Platycrana punctata Gray, Synopsis Phasm., p. 37. [East Indies.] 

 Two males ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 These specimens are identical in the pattern and intensity of the 



coloration. 



SubfamUy CLITUMNIN^. 

 Genus MACELLA Stil. 

 1875. Macella Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 13, 70. 



Included Bacillus souchongia Westwood and Macella deniata Stal. 

 of which the former may be considered the type as it is well figured. 

 Macella caulodes-^ n. sp. 



Types.— d" and 9 ; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [Cat . 

 No. 7,345, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently not closely allied to any of the previously known species 

 of the genus ; the unarmed character of the eighth abdominal segment 

 and the rather straight cerci are very distinctive. 



c^. — Size rather small; form elongate; surface subsericeous. Head 

 elongate, somewhat depressed, evenly constricted posteriorly; eyes 

 subglobose, rather prominent; antenna? with the first joint elongate- 

 ovate, depressed, median longitudinal portion rounded, half the length 

 of the linear second joint. Pronotum longitudinal; anterior margin 

 broadly emarginate; posterior margin truncate; lateral margins with 

 the anterior half broadly and evenly emarginate, median longitudinal 

 carina distinct. jNIesonotum over five times the length of the prono- 

 tum, very slender, median carina distinct anteriorly. JMetanotum 

 (with median segment) about three-fourths the length of the meso- 

 notum; median segment very short, transverse. Abdomen with the 

 28 /caii/wJ/;r, i.e., resembling; a stem. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



first to sixth segments distinctly longitudinal; seventh dorsal segment 

 not more than two-thirds the length of the sixth; eighth segment 

 tectate, shghtly shorter than the seventh, lateral portions with the 

 posterior angles sim.ple and not developed into distinct spines; ninth 

 segment slightly shorter than the eighth, fornicate, apically truncate 

 and with a transverse costa, median carina narroAV and distinct; cerci 

 about ecjual in length to the ninth dorsal segment, and inserted near 

 the apex of the latter, slender, hardly curved ; subgenital opercule not 

 quite reaching the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, apex 

 broad, truncate. Limbs very slender. Anterior femora but slightly 

 shorter than the mesonotum and metanotum together, basal flexure 

 slight; tibiae slightly longer than the femora, very slender; metatarsi 

 nearly three times the length of the remaining joints of the tarsi. 

 Median femora slightly exceeding the pronotum and mesonotum in 

 length, slightly bowed, tibiae slightly longer than the femora, meta- 

 tarsi about half again as long as the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior 

 femora ec{ual to the five basal abdominal segments in length, slightly 

 bowed ; tibise exceeding the femora by about the length of the first 

 abdominal segment; metatarsi considerably over twice as long as the 

 remaining tarsal joints. 



? . — Size rather small; form moderately slender; surface generally 

 subsericeous, rather granulose on the mesonotum. Head elongate, 

 depressed, very slightly compressed posteriorly, posterior margin with 

 a distinct narrow median depression ; eyes subglobose ; antenna) almost 

 equal to the head and pronotum in length, basal joint as in the male, 

 the second joint rather stout. Pronotum similar to that of the male. 

 Mesonotum slightly more than four times the length of the pronotum, 

 very slightly and very gradually enlarging posteriorly ; median carina 

 anteriorly distinct, but very narrow, and becomes obsolete posteriorly. 

 Metanotum (with median segment) two-thirds the length of the meso- 

 notum; median carina as in the mesonotum; median segment very 

 short, decidedly transverse. Abdomen ecpial to the head and thorax 

 in length, median carina distinct and becoming quite prominent pos- 

 teriorly, where the segments are decidedly tectate; first to sixth seg- 

 ments longitudinal, the length increasing from the base; seventh seg- 

 ment longitudinal, the apical portion considerably expanded; eighth 

 segment somewhat transverse, carina not very distinct; ninth segment 

 moderately produced, strongly carinate, apical margin with a median 

 triangular emargination, which exposes the acuminate apex of the supra- 

 anal plate; cerci acuminate, extending beyond the ninth dorsal seg- 

 ment by about two-thirds the length of the latter; subgenital opercule 

 G 




S2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



I'eaching to the apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, apex rotim- 

 clato-truncate. Anterior femora equal to the head, pronotum and 

 mesonotum in length, moderately compressed, basal flexure distinct; 

 tibiae slightly shorter than the femora ; metatarsi about three times the 

 length of the remaining tarsal joints. Median femora almost equal to 

 the pronotum and mesonotum in length; tibiae slightly exceeding the 

 femora in length; metatarsi not quite twice the length of the remain- 

 ing tarsal joints. Posterior femora exceeding the four basal segments 

 of the abdomen in length, somewhat bowed; tibise shghtly longer than 

 the femora; metatarsi twice as long as the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color dull ochraceous-bro"wn, deeper in the male than in the 

 female and also exhibiting some trace of greenish. Head with a post- 

 ocular streak of blackish-brown more or less evident. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 51 mm. 54 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2 " 2.2 



Length of mesonotum, 12 " 13 



Length of metanotum (including median seg- 

 ment), 9.5 '' 9 



Length of median segment, 1.2 " 1.5 



Length of abdomen, 25.5 " 26.2 



Length of anterior femora, 21.7 '' 17 



Length of anterior tibige, 22.7 " 16.5 



Length of median femora, 14.5 " 12.2 



Length of posterior femora, 18 " 14.2 



Another Trong specimen, a female, I have provisionally referred to 

 this species. However, it exhibits several discordant characters, as 

 the antennse beyond the second joint are slenderer, the terminal seg- 

 ments of the abdomen are supplied with longitudinal rugse, and the 

 size is greater. 



Genus GRATIDIA Stll. 

 1875. Grntidia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 14, 70. 



Type. — Graiidia sansibara Stal. 



As the material studied in this connection was quite limited, no 

 attempt has been made to determine the propriety of uniting Clonaria 

 with Gratidia, as Karsch has proposed to do in his paper on this genus.^^ 

 The relegating of Paraclonaria to the synonymy seems unwarranted, 

 in spite of the arguments Karsch advances in defense of his action. 

 The structural characters of Paraclonaria are of sufficient importance 



29 Entojn. Nachrich., XXIV, pp. 370-380. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



to place it on an equal footing with many recognized genera of 



Phasmidse. 



Gratidia natalis (Westwood). 



1859. Bacillus Natalis Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 6, PI. 

 XXIII, figs. 7 and 8. [Port Natal.] 



One female ; Zulu Mission, South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 

 This specimen is from alcohol, and in consequence badly shriveled 

 and distorted. 



Gratidia inclinata Karsoh. 



1898. [Gratidia] inclinata Karsch, Entom. Nachrich., XXIV, pp. 372, 375. 

 [Darema, Usambara, German East Africa.] 



Three males; Mombasa, British East Africa. [Coll. of Morgan 

 Hebard.] 



These specimens have been badly broken, but they appear to be 

 clearly referable to this species. 



Genus PARACLONARIA Sehulthess-Schindler. 



1893. Paraclonaria Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, XXXIII, 

 p. 89. [Name untenable, as no included species are cited.] 



1898. Paraclonaria Sehulthess-Schindler, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, 

 XXXIX, p. 182. 



Included P. longelaminata, affinis and hamuligera Schulthess, the 

 first of which was removed to Phthoa by Karsch. Of the remaining 

 forms hamuligera may be selected as the type. 



Paraclonaria postrostrata (Karsch). 



1898. [Gratidia] postrostrata Karsch, Entom. Nachrich., XXIV, pp. 373, 

 378. [Mombasa, East Africa.] 



Two males; Mombasa, British East Africa. [Coll. Morgan Heb- 

 ard.] 



These specimens agree very well with Karsch's description, except 

 for the fact that he gives the length of the anal segment as 7.5 milli- 

 meters, while in the specimens examined the plate itself is considerably 

 shorter than the type measurements. Possibly personal equation or 

 a different comprehension of the " analsegment " may be responsible 

 for the difference, as the structure and other proportions agree 

 perfectly. 



Genus MARANSIS Karsch. 



1898. Maransis Karsch, Entom. Nachrich., XXIV, pp. 365, 381. 

 Type. — Bacillus mozamhicus Westwood. 



Maransis rufolineatus Schulthess. 



1899. M[aransis] rufolineaius Schulthess, Bull. See. Vaudoise Sci. Nat., 

 Lausanne, XXXV, p. 200, PL VII, fig. 4. [Delagoa.] 



Five specimens; two males, three females (two immature); Zulu 

 Mission, South Africa. [A. N. S. Phila.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Genus PARAPACHYMORPHA Brunner. 



1S93. Parajpachymorjpha Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Geneva, 

 XXXIII, p. 95. 



Included P. nigra and spinosa Brunner. 



NEOHIRASEA »> n. subgen. 



Allied to Parapachymorpha s.s., but differing in the greater size of 

 the second antennal joint, the unarmed limbs, the transverse first 

 abdominal segment, the emarginate ninth dorsal segment, as well as 

 the accentuated character of the major body spines and the compara- 

 tive suppression of the minor ones. 



Type. — Phasma (Acanthoderus) japonicum Haan. 



Parapachymorpha (Neohirasea) japonica (Haan). 



1842. Phasma {Acanthoderus) japonicum Haan, Verhandel. Natuurlijke 

 Geschied., Orth., p. 135, tab. 12, fig. 4. [Japan.] 



Three females; Kyoto, Japan. (Y. Hirase, No. 48.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] 



Nikko, Japan. [U. S. N. M.] 



The Nikko specimen, while badly broken, represents an individual 

 considerably bulkier than either of the Kyoto specimens. 



Subfamily ACROPHYLLIN.^.^i 



Genus DIMORPHODES Westwood. 



1859. Dimorphodes Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. SO, 



Type. — D. prostasis Westwood. 



Dimorphodes mancus Bates. 



1856. Diryiorphodes mancus Bates, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XXV, p. 345, 

 PI. XLIV, figs. 3 and 8. [Batchian and Ternate.] 



Thirteen specimens; eight males, five females; Island of Obi, 

 Moluccas. [Coll. of Morgan Hebard.] 



In this fine series of specimens two individuals, one a male and the 

 other a female, are decidedly more spinosc than the remainder of the 

 series. This is almost wholly due to the development of the low 

 tuberculous excrescences of the other specimens into distinct spines, 

 and may be considered a purely individual feature. Considerable 

 discrepancy exists in the length of the anterior limbs, two undoubtedly 



^° Dedicated to Mr. Y. Hirase, of Kyoto, Japan, who has devoted a great amount 

 of time and labor to collecting representatives of the Mollusca and Orthoptera 

 of his native land. 



^' As Kirby has already noticed (Proc. Royal Dublin Soc, n. s., VI, p. 573\ 

 Acrophylla and Diura are directly synonymous. The former name was proposed 

 to replace the latter, which is preoccupied. Accordingly the use of the names as 

 distinct genera is a gross error. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 85 



adult individuals showing the range of variation in the length of the 

 femora to be 4.5 millimeters. 



Genus GEAEFFEA Stil. 

 1875. Graejfea Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 40, 85. 

 Type. — Lopaphus coccophagus Westwood ( = Alopus cocophages 

 Newport). 



GraefFea cocophages (Newport). 



1841. Alopus cocophages Newport, Philosoph. Trans. Royal See. London, 

 1844, Pt. I, p. 288, PI. XIV, fig. 4. [Navigator's Island.] 



Three specimens; one male, two females; Savaii, Samoan Islands. 

 (Sir Charles Ehot.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This species has also been recorded from the Tonga group, the Fee- 

 jees, and Rotuma near the latter group. The Loyally Islands possess 

 another species of the genus, lifuensis Sharp, and possibly fulvescens 

 Saussure, from the Marquesas, may be distinct, as the cerci of the 

 female are subspatulate instead of acuminate or terete, as in the other 

 two forms of the genus. 



Genus ARRHID.a:US Stil. 



1875. Arrhidceus Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handl., Bd. 2, 

 No. 17, p. 15. 



Type. — Necroscia styxius Westwood. 



This genus contains a number of Oriental and Papuan species, a 

 list of which may prove of service: 



Arrhidceus styxius (Westwood). Philippines. 



Arrhidceus palinurus (Westwood). Philippines. 



Arrhidceus nigricornis Stal. Philippines. 



Arrhidceus stali Kirby. Albay, N. E. Luzon, Philippines. 



Arrhidceus capita (Westwood). Sarawak, Borneo. 



Arrhidceus longiceps (Bates). Kaioa Island, near Batchian. 



Arrhidceus apalamnus n, sp. Obi. 



Arrhidceus roseus (Stoll). Amboina and Ceram. 



Arrhidceus cephalotes (Bates). New Guinea. 



? Arrhidceus vittatus (Serville). Java. 

 Arrhidaeus apalamnus '■'- n. sp. 



Types.— c? and ? ; Island of Obi, Moluccas. [A. N. S. Phila., 

 presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



Near longiceps Bates,^^ but differing in the longer pronotum, shorter 

 tegmina and wings, distribution of the femoral spines and coloration 



32 airakafivogj i.e., helpless. 



33 Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XXV, p. 350, PI. XLV, fig. 6. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Stoll's description of rosea,^^ from Amboina is so brief that even with 

 the aid of his figure Httle can be made out of it. It is very apparent, 

 however, that it has much longer wings than apalamnus, which latter 

 has very short wings in both sexes. 



(^. — Size rather small; form moderately elongate; surface glabrous. 

 Head very large, almost twice the width of the pronotum, oblong, 

 slightly and evenly constricted in the posterior portion; occiput with 

 a broad shallow longitudinally disposed sulcus, another of similar 

 character extending posteriorly from the eye and another on the side 

 of the head; oceUi obsolete; eyes hemispherical; antennae slender, 

 filiform, about equal to the anterior femora in length. Pronotum 

 oblong, about twice as long as broad, very sUghtly broader anteriorly 

 than posteriorly, transverse sulcus centrally placed, lateral portions 

 with a broad shallow longitudinal depression extending almost the 

 entire length. Mesonotum slender, slightly expanding anteriorly and 

 posteriorly, over tliree times the length of the pronotum, surface obso- 

 letely tuberculate; median carina replaced by a very weak sulcus. 

 Tegmina ovate; apex rounded; median protuberance extremely low; 

 venation very irregular and somewhat reticulate in character. Wings 

 short, not reacliing to the middle of the third abdominal segment; 

 costal and mediastinal regions with the transverse nervures distinct 

 and parallel. Abdomen bacilliform; eighth dorsal abdominal segment 

 shghtly longer than the seventh, both of which are somewhat tectate; 

 ninth segment compressed, carinate, apical incision deep and circular, 

 the inferior lateral lobes strongly dentate; cerci about equal to the 

 ninth segment in length, fihf orm, apex acuminate ; subgenital opercule 

 reaching to the tip of the eighth dorsal segment, cymbiform, the apex 

 moderately acuminate. Limbs rather slender. Anterior femora equal 

 in length to the head, pronotum, mesonotum and tegmina, basal flexiu-e 

 slight, apical portion of the inferior surface with four spines; tibiae 

 shghtly longer than the femora; metatarsi half again as long as the 

 remaining tarsal joint. Median femora equal to the mesonotum and 

 haK of the pronotum in length, apical spines four in number, three 

 placed anteriorly, one posteriorly; tibiae equal to the femora in 

 length; metatarsi shghtly longer than the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Posterior femora slightly shorter than the four basal abdominal seg- 

 ments, the apical spines six or seven in number, one at the extreme 

 apex placed posteriorly; tibiae shghtly longer than the femora; meta- 

 tarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. 



^* NcUuurlijke Afbeeldingen en Beschrijvingen, Spooken, pp. 13 and 76, PI. V, 

 fig. 17. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



General color sea-green, prothoracic and mesothoracic pie lira and 

 lines on the anterior and median coxae, as well as the posterior part of 

 the prosterniim black. Eyes wood-brown with a longitudinal bar of 

 blackish which is continued to the posterior margin of the head. Teg- 

 mina with the median protuberance pale ochraceous. Wings with the 

 venation of the costal and mediastinal regions of the general tint on a 

 smoky ground; posterior field vermillion. 



9 . — Size medium. Head much as in the male, but the sulci less 

 distinct; antennae very slender, not more than two-thirds the length of 

 the anterior femora. Pronotum half again as long as broad, subequal 

 in width; three moderately distinct transverse sulci in the anterior half. 

 Mesonotum four times the length of the pronotum; median carina 

 replaced by a very fine longitudinal sulcus. Tegmina subovate, apex 

 roimdcd; median protuberance not perceptible. Wings extremely 

 short, not quite reaching the apex of the first abdominal segment; 

 costal and mediastinal regions with the apex subacuminate. Abdomen 

 with the eighth dorsal segment considerably longer than the seventh; 

 ninth segment shorter than the seventh, apex broadly acuminate; 

 cerci not equalling the ninth segment in length, depressed, acumi- 

 nate; subgenital opercule compressed, scoop-like, extending to the 

 middle of the ninth dorsal segment, apex narrowly emarginate^ 

 surface subcoriaceous. Limbs with the femoral spines much as in the 

 male, but much weaker. Anterior femora equal to the mesonotum and 

 wings in length, basal flexure slight ; tibiae about equal to the femora 

 in length; metatarsi half again as long as the remaining tarsal 

 joints. j\Iedian femora and tibiae subequal and each somewhat shorter 

 than the mesonotum. Posterior femora slightly longer than the four 

 basal joints of the abdomen; tibiae exceeding the femora by half the 

 length of the four abdominal segments; metatarsi slightly exceeding 

 the remaining tarsal joints in length. 



General color pale yellowish-green, becoming ochraceous on the 

 abdomen. Head glaucous-green, with two longitudinal stripes of 

 chrome-yellow which extend from the basal antennal joints back along 

 the lateral margins of the pronotum and mesonotum; a postocular 

 streak of darker green is faintly indicated. Mesonotum and pronotum 

 scrumbled with wood-I^rown, the mesothoracic pleura longitudinally 

 lined with chrome-yellow. Tegmina viridian-green, the mediastinal 

 region chrome-yellow. Wings with the apex of the costal and discoidal 

 region smoky-brown, with the venation rich verdigris-green; posterior 

 field vermillion. Limbs dull yellowish lined with blackish, which also 

 suffuses the coxae. 




o8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



MeasuremenU. 



Total length, 5.3.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 



Length of mesonotnm, 10.5 



Length of tegmina, 4 



Length of wings 14. 9 



Length of abdomen 30.5 



Length of anterior femora, 21.5 



Length of anterior til)ia3, 22.1 



Length of median femora, 12 



Length of posterior femora, 16 



Genus ANCHIALE Stal. 

 1S75. Anchiale Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 36 and S4. 



Type. — Anchiale maculata (Olivier) {=Phasnia 7iecydaloides Stoll 

 [not of Linn.] and Phasma nccvimn Lichtenstein). 



Anchiale nsevia (Lichtenstein). 



1787. [Phasma] necydaloidcs Stoll, Xatuurli.ike Afbeeldingen en Beschry- 

 vingen, Spooken, pp. 8, 10 and 76, PI. Ill, fig. 8, PI. IV, fig. 11. [Am- 

 boina.] (Not Gryllus (Mantis) necydaloidcs Linnceus.) 



1792. Mantis maculata Olivier, Encvcl. l\Iethod., Ins., VII, p. 636. [Am- 

 boina.]-^^ (Not of Thunberg and Lundahl, 1784.) 



1802. [Phasma] noevium Lichten.stein, Trans. linn. Soc. London, \l, p. 13. 

 [Amboina.p^ 



Two rather immature females: Island of Obi, Moluccas. [Coll. of 

 Morgan Hebard.] 



One of these specimens has the right anterior liml) regenerated, the 

 whole leg not equalling the normal left femur in length. The sjm- 

 onymy of this species is very much involved, but after considerable 

 study 7icevia seems to be the correct name. 



Sharp^'^ has given some space to a discussion of the names of the 

 species of the genus, but as he did not have the Moluccan form, the 

 question as to a name for it was left unsettled. The nominal species 

 known to date are as follows : 



Anchiale nccvia (Lichtenstein). Aml^oina and Obi. 



Anchiale stolli Sharp. New Britain. 



Anchiale confusa Sharp. New Britain (Westwood credits this form, 

 which he calls maculata, to the Sandwich Islands). 



The insect figured and described by Blanchard^' from "Warou, on the 

 coast of Ceram, may represent a distinct form. 



•'^ Based on Stoll's figures. 



^« Willev, Zoological Results, I, p. 90. 



2' Voi/a'ge aii Pole Hud., ZooL, IV, p. 358, Orth., PL I, fig. 8. 




1904 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Subfamily HETEROPTERYGIN.E {Cladomorphime Brunner). 



Genus HETEROPTERYX Gray. 



1835. Heteropterijx Gray, Synopsis Spec. Ins. Phasm., pp. 13 and 32. 



Type. — Phasma dilatatum Parkinson. 



Heteropteryx dilatata (Parkinson). 



1798. Phasma dilatatum Parkinson, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, IV, p. 190, 

 tab. IS. [Asia.] 



Two specimens, male and female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. 

 Abbott.) [U. S. N. M.] 



The male of this species has never been described, and appears 

 to be remarkable for the great length of the tegmina and wings. 

 It resembles the male of mulleri Haan closer than any other species the 

 male of which is known. From mulleri it can readily be distinguished 

 by the shorter mesonotum, the longer tegmina (55 mm.) and wings 

 (70 mm.), and the more ample lateral flaps of the seventh and eighth 

 abdominal segments. 



The range of the genus Heteropteryx covers Malacca and Trong (dila- 

 tata, castelnaudii, rollandi), Sumatra (mulleri), Java (rosenbergi) , 

 Borneo (grayii, dehaanii and dilatata), Celebes (westwoodii) and Aus- 

 tralia (austrcdis). 



Genus DATAMES StM. 

 1875. Datames Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 51 and 93. 



Type. — Acanthoderus oileus West wood. 

 Datames sequalis ^ n. sp. 



Type. — ? ; Island of Obi, Moluccas. [A. N. S. Phila., presented by 

 Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



Closely allied to D. mouhotii Bates^^ from Cambodia, but differing in 

 the peculiar form of the ninth dorsal abdominal segment, and the almost 

 entire absence of oblique ridges on the abdominal segments. The 

 Javan and Malaccan oileus West wood, rather curiously, is not at all 

 closely allied. 



Size small; form elongate, tectatc, sul^equal; surface obscurely 

 tuberculate. Head subequal in width, slightly longitudinal; occiput 

 elevated and bearing two converging cristate crenulate ridges, which, 

 when united posteriorly, form a jagged projecting lobe; interocular 

 region with a structure somewhat similar to that found on the occiput, 

 but on a smaller scale, the ridges not meeting posteriorly and being 

 trituberculate, the anterior tubercle developed into a distinct curved 



^* In allusion to the uniform breadth of the thoracic and abdominal segments. 

 ^^ Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XXV, p. 342. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



claw-likc spine; lateral aspect of the head with a distinct longi- 

 tudinal rounded ridge passing through the eye; eyes globose, rather 

 small; antennae equal to the mesonotum and metanotum in length, 

 basal joint triquetrous, sul^concave, rectangular, the external margin 

 with a distinct submedian and apical spine, second joint longitudinal, 

 depressed. Pronotum slightly transverse, anterior margin concave, 

 posterior margin truncate ; median portion with a pair of longitudinal 

 tuberculous ridges; lateral portions with a broad distinct continuous 

 ridge. Mesonotum two and one-half times the length of the pronotum ; 

 median carina sprinkled with tubercles, the anterior and posterior 

 portions each bearing a distinct symmetrically disposed pair; lateral 

 ridge distinct, gently curved upward in the supra-coxal region. Meta- 

 notum (including the median segment) two-thirds the length of 

 the mesonotum and similar in structure, except that the anterior por- 

 tion of the median carina is without tubercles; median segment slightly 

 more than one-fourth of the whole metanotal length. Abdomen 

 almost equal to the head and thorax in length, subequal in width, all 

 segments transverse, the oblique lateral lines present in the other 

 species of the genus subobsolete; median carina very distinct on the 

 fourth and eighth segments, bifurcate on the former, cristate on the 

 latter; ninth dorsal abdominal segment basally rectangular, the pos- 

 terior median portion produced into a subtriangular process, the apex 

 of which is truncato-emarginate; subgenital opcrcule reaching to the 

 apex of the eighth dorsal segment, carinate, produced, the apex 

 rounded. Limbs short and stout. Anterior femora about three-fourths 

 the length of the mesonotum, basal flexure slight, but occupying 

 half the entire length, dorsal carina high; tibiae slightly shorter than 

 the femora; metatarsi not exceeding the succeeding joint in length. 

 Median femora slightl}^ shorter than the metanotum in length, superior 

 margin obscurely trilobate; tibise slightly shorter than the femora; 

 metatarsi not different in character from the succeeding joint and but 

 very slightly longer. Posterior femora equal to the median segment 

 and first and second abdominal segments in length, suiDerior margin 

 trilobate, the third low and subobsolete in character; tibiee slightly 

 shorter than the femora in length; metatarsi as in the median limbs. 



General color ochraceous and wood-brown, the two tints irregularly 

 intermingled, and distinctly contrasted in but few places. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 44 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3 " 



Length of mesonotum 9.1 '' 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Measurements. 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), ... 6 mm. 



Length of abdomen, 21.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 7 



Length of anterior tibia?, 5.8 " 



Length of median femora, 6 '' 



Length of posterior femora, 7 " 



Subfamily ANISOMORPHIN.E. 

 Genus DECIDIA StM. 

 — 1875. Decidia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp.- 57 and 96. 

 Type. — Phasma soranus Westwood. 



Decidia soranus (Westwood)? 



1859. Phasma Soranus Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 127, 

 PI. XVII, fig. 3. ["In Colombia regione frigida Quindensi."] 



One immature female; La Paz, Bolivia. [A. N. S. Phila.] 

 This specimen shows rudiments of the tegmina and wings, and while 

 resembling Westwood's figure of soranus very closely in general ap- 

 pearance, it is much smaller {circa 45 mm.) than even the immature 

 condition of the specimen would seem to warrant. The metatarsi are 

 much shorter than in the figure of soranus, and the probabilities are 

 that mature Bolivian specimens will show the existence of a form 

 distinct from the type species. 



Subfamily PSEUDOPHASMIN.E.*« 

 Genus STRATOCLES Stai. 

 1875. Stratocles Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 57 and 96. 



Type. — Stratocles cinctipes Stal. 

 Stratocles multilineatus n. sp. 



Type. — d^ ; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No. 7,347, U. S. N. M.] 



Near S. forcipatus Bolivar," with which it agrees fairly well in general 

 measurements, but is separated by a number of other characters. 

 Some slight resemblance appears to exist to the insufficiently described 

 Phasma hennettii Gray. 



Size small; form moderately elongate. Head slightly depressed, 

 subequal in width; ocelli large; eyes ovate, prominent; antennae 

 somewhat exceeding the body in length, basal joint subquadrate, 

 second joint cylindrical, equal to the basal joint in length. Pronotum 



^ I have followed Kirby (Trans. Linn,. Soc. London, n. ser., VI, pp. 473-474) 

 in using this name for the Phasmidce of Brunner. 

 " Adas Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXV, p. 11 . 




92 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



equal to the head in length, longitudinal, sul:)equal except for a slight 

 anterior constriction; anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; 

 cruciform longitudinal and transverse sulci finely marked, but dis- 

 tinctly visible; anterior angles rotundato-emarginate; posterior half 

 with four more or less distinct raised longitudinal ridges. JMcsonotum 

 slightly longer than the pronotum, longitudinal, subequal in width, 

 posterior portion considerably but gradually inflated, surface with 

 four longitudinal rows of small tubercles, which posteriorly fuse into 

 rough ridges; mesopleura smooth, with a longitudinal low ridge; meso- 

 sternum smooth, rounded. JMetanotum twice as long as the meso- 

 notum; metasternum plane. Tegmina ovoid, not half the length of 

 the metathorax, discoidal protuberance rather sharp, longitudinal; 

 apex rather narrowly rounded. Wings large, reaching to the apex of 

 the seventh abdominal segment, slightly over twice as long as wide. 

 Abdomen about half again as long as the head and thorax; the six basal 

 segments longitudinal, gradually decreasing in length toward the apex; 

 seventh dorsal segment transverse, not quite half the length of the 

 sixth; eighth segment about twice the length of the seventh, very much 

 inflated apically; ninth dorsal segment bullate, bearing a shallow me- 

 dian depressed area which gives the plate a bimammillate appearance, 

 apical margin subtruncate ; cerci not quite equal to the ninth dorsal seg- 

 . ment in length, subequal and slightly depressed l^asally, acuminate 

 apically; subgenital opercule but slightly shorter than the eighth dorsal 

 segment, and exceeding the apical margin of the same, apical margin 

 evenly rounded with a very slight shallow median emargination. 

 Limbs very slender, the anterior and posterior femora subequal to their 

 respective femora in length. Anterior femora slightly exceeding the 

 entire thorax in length, basal flexure hardty visible; metatarsi very 

 slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. Median femora equal 

 to the mesonotum and metathorax in length ; tibise somewhat shorter 

 than the femora; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining joints 

 of the tarsi. Posterior femora reaching slightly beyond the apex of 

 the fourth abdominal segment; metatarsi slightly shorter than the 

 remaining tarsal joints. 



General color of the upper surface slate-black lined and spotted with 

 emerald-green; head with seven distinct longitudinal lines; pronotum 

 with two large irregular blotches on the anterior half, four longitudinal 

 lines on the posterior part, and the entire margins of the same green tint ; 

 mesonotum with the lateral ridges and the four distinct rows of tuber- 

 cles of the overlying tint; tegmina with the basic color sohd except in 

 the discoidal and basal regions which are ochraceous-rufous, A-eins of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



the costal and posterior fields emerald-green ; wings with the costal and 

 discoidal of the same color scheme as the tegmina, posterior field smok}'- 

 hyaline, the veins distinctly blackish, the basal portion whitish; abdo- 

 men with the upper surface blackish, touched with ochraceous toward 

 the apex. Under surface pale ochraceous, touched ■v\dth reddish 

 anteriorly and posteriorly. Antennae blackish with very minute whit- 

 ish annuli at the apex of each segment, the terminal joint ochraceous- 

 rufous; eyes mottled wood-brown. Limbs with the femora blackish, 

 lined along the carinse with emerald-green, the proximal portion with 

 the latter color predominating; tibia? dull blackish-ochraceous: tarsi 

 ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 46 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 " 



Length of mesonotum, 3.7 " 



Length of metathorax, 7.8 " 



Length of tegmina, 4.5 " 



Length of wings, 29.5 " 



Length of abdomen, 29 " 



Length of anterior femora 15 " 



Length of anterior tibise, 14.5 " 



Length of median femora, 12.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 15.5 " 



Stratocles costaricensis n. sp. 



Type.— 9 ; Costa Rica. (Schild and Biu-gdorf.) [Cat. No. 7,346, 

 U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently related to Phasma perspicillare Stoll,^ from which it 

 differs in the longer limbs and rather different color pattern, which, 

 however, resembles perspicillaris closer than any other species. 



Size medium; form elongate subfusiform; surface generally veluti- 

 nous and evenly pilose on the pronotum, mesonotum, limbs and ven- 

 tral surface. Head suborbicular when viewed from the dorsum, con- 

 siderably broader than the pronotum; occiput rounded; ocelh of 

 mediiun size; eyes ovate, moderately prominent; antennae exceeding 

 the body by over half the length of the latter. Pronotum longitudinal, 

 about twice as long as wide, subequal; anterior and posterior margins 

 subtnmcate ; cruciform depression very slight. Mesonotum shorter than 

 the pronotimi, posterior half sharply yet evenly elevated, width sub- 

 equal and shghtly narrower than the pronotum. ]\letathorax consider- 

 ably longer than the prothorax and mesothorax; metasternum plane. 

 Tegmina rather short, irregularly elongate-ovate ; costal area large and 



« NatuvrJ. Afbeeld. Bparh., Spooken, pp. 67 and 77, PI. XXIIT, fig. 86. 




94 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



distinctly emarginate apically ; discoidal area \Yith the tubercles com- 

 pressed, longitudinal, triangular in outline. Wings ample, reaching to 

 the apex of the abdomen in repose, almost twice as long as broad; apex 

 rather narrowly rounded. Abdomen with the six basal segments longi- 

 tudinal, decreasing in size toward the apex; seventh and eighth dorsal 

 segments each about three-fourths the length of the sixth segment, tec- 

 tate; ninth segment tectate, slightly shorter than the preceding segment, 

 apex obtuse wdth a slight median emargination exposing the triangular 

 apex of the supra-anal plate ; cerci slender, simple, extending but a slight 

 distance beyond the tip of the ninth segment; subgenital opercule large, 

 cymbiform, extending to the apex of the ninth dorsal segment, apex 

 produced, rectangulate. Limbs moderately slender. Anterior femora 

 injured; tibiae somewhat shorter than the thorax; metatarsi shorter 

 than the remaining tarsal joints. Median femora equal to the meso- 

 thorax and metathorax in length; tibiae distinctly shorter than the 

 femora ; metatarsi about two-thirds the length of the remaining tarsal 

 joints. Posterior femora equal to the four basal segments of the 

 abdomen; tibiae equal to the femora in length; metatarsi equal to the 

 remaining tarsal joints in length. 



General color dull black, becoming brownish-black on the abdomen 

 and limbs; mesonotum, mesopleura, mesosternum, metapleura and 

 metasternum with several obscure lines of dull ochraceous. Femora 

 each with several very obscure annuli of dull ochraceous. Tegmina 

 ochre-yellow, suffused on the apical portion of the discoidal and pos- 

 terior fields with pale glaucous-green; longitudinal veins of the dis- 

 coidal and posterior fields apically, and the posterior margin entirely 

 lined with black. Wings with the costal and discoidal regions pale 

 ochre-yellow, fading into pale glaucous-green apically ; anterior margin, 

 a spot before the base and the veins of the discoidal area blackish; 

 posterior field with the disk very pale clay color, the periphery and 

 apex dark smoky-hj-aline. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 52.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.7 



Length of mesonotum, 3 



Length of metathorax, 9 



Length of tegmina, 6.7 



Length of wings, 39 



Length of abdomen, 31 



Length of anterior tibiae, 16.5 



Length of median femora, 13.1 



Length of posterior femora 18 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Genus PSEUDOPHASMA Kirby { P hasm a Auct.). « 

 1S96. Pseudophasma Kirby, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, 2cl ser., VI, p. 473. 



Type. — Gryllus necydaloides Linnaeus (=phthisicus Linnseus). 



After examining the literature on the subject, I fully agree with 

 Kirby as to the necessity of a new name for the Phasma of most authors. 

 Pseudophasma phaeton n. sp. 



T}T)e. — S ; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No. 7,348, U. S.N. M.] 



Closely related to P. urazi Bolivar^* from the Rio Atalapo, but differ- 

 ing in the hyaline posterior field of the wings, the longer mesonotum, 

 and the different proportions of the limbs. 



Bolivar's P. perezi*^ from Coca, Ecuador, also appears to be an allied 

 species. 



Size rather large; form very slender and elongate. Head consider- 

 al^ly longer than the pronotum, very slightly constricted posteriorly; 

 eyes ovate; antenna3 with each joint somewhat thickened apically, 

 basal joint oblong, slightly depressed. Pronotum not quite half the 

 length of the mesonotum, almost twice as long as broad, subequal, 

 anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; anterior angles with a 

 slight emargination caused by a distinct spiraculous aperture; cruci- 

 form depression slightly marked. Mesonotum rather elongate, sub- 

 equal in width ; lateral margins each with a distinct longitudinal carina ; 

 median portion with a constant slight longitudinal sulcus ; surface of the 

 anterior three-fifths sprinkled with rounded tubercles, surface of the 

 ])osterior two-fifths smooth; mesosternum obscurely tuberculate with 

 a distinct, though irregular, longitudinal carina. Metathorax equal to 

 the mesothorax in length; metasternum strongly longitudinal, and 

 l)caring a distinct, but very narrow, median sulcus. Tegmina slightly 

 over three-fourths the length of the mesonotum, subrectangular, the 

 apical margin obliquely truncate; costal margin arcuate; anal margin 



^" The name Pseudophasma was proposed almost simultaneously by both 

 Kirby and Bolivar, the former to replace Phasma of authors, the latter to desig- 

 nate a new genus near to the one Kirby renamed. Considerable trouble was 

 experienced in ascertaining the exact dates of the respective papers. Kirby's 

 article (supra, pp. 447-475) was read December 5, 1895, and in the contents of 

 the volume the date July, 1896, is given. Bolivar's paper (Adas Soc. Espan. 

 Hist. Nat., XXV, pp. 11-18) was presented January 8, 1896, and the date of 

 publication of the part is given on the cover sheet as September 30, 1896. From 

 the Zoologischer Anzeiger (Bibliographia Zoologica, I, pp. 552 and 650) we learn 

 that Kirby's paper was received first, and this no doubt has priority of a month 

 at least. Accordingly Bolivar's Pseudophasma requires another name, and I 

 propose Ignacia, as a "slight tribute to the worth of a master mind. 



" Actas Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXV, p. 13. 



^^ An. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., X, p. 479. 




96 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



strai^o-ht; median tubercle elongate and relatively low; venation, ex- 

 cept for the principal longitudinal veins, irregularly reticulate. Wings 

 reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal segment, slightly less than 

 twice as long as broad ; marginal costal field with the transverse veins 

 irregularly disposed, all other cross veins (except those of the posterior 

 field) regularly disposed. Abdomen with the six basal segments dis- 

 tinctly longitudinal, the sixth about two-thirds the length of the fifth; 

 seventh segment about two-thirds the length of the sixth, and with the 

 eighth and ninth strongly compressed and distinctly tectate; eighth 

 and ninth segments subequal in length, the latter with the apical mar- 

 gin trimcate ; cerci equal to the ninth dorsal segment in length, elongate 

 fusiform; subgenital opercule slender, reaching to the middle of the 

 ninth dorsal segment, apex very strongly acuminate. Limbs slender, 

 and relatively small. Anterior femora equal to the head, pronotum 

 and mesonotum in length ; basal flexure distinct and occupying slightly 

 more than the basal third; tibise equal to the femora in length. 

 jNIedian femora two-thirds the length of the anterior femora; tibiae 

 about three-fourths the length of the femora; metatarsi about half 

 as long as the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora slightly 

 exceeding the apex of the second abdominal segment; tibise about 

 four-fifths the length of the femora; metatarsi about three-quarters 

 the length of the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color mars-brown, closely and almost uniformly sprinkled 

 with minute specks of vandyke-brown. Head with a distinct post- 

 ocular streak of ecru-drab, which is bordered superiorly and interiorly 

 by a line of blackish, genae ecru-drab; eyes vandyke-brown; antenni^e 

 with each joint bearing a distinct apical blackish annulus. Pronotum 

 with a few subobsolete blackish blotches. IMesonotum with the ground 

 color of the anterior tuberculous portion dull cinnamon, several of the 

 larger tubercles blackish, posterior smooth portion suffused with green- 

 ish-blue ; lateral carinse dull cinnamon bordered inferiorly by a line of 

 blackish. Metapleura and metasternum dull whitish. Tegmina with 

 an irregular longitudinal blackish line passing to the exterior of the 

 median tubercle. Wings with the costal and discoidal fields of the 

 general color; posterior field hyaline. Limbs irregularly and rather 

 obscurely annulate with mummy-brown on a ground of wood-brown. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 79 mm. 



Length of pronotum 3.5 " 



Length of mesonotum 9 " 



Length of metathorax, 11 " 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Measurements. 



Length of tegmina 6.5 mm. 



Length of wings, 48 " 



Length of abdomen, 49.5 " 



Length of anterior femora L5 " 



Length of anterior tibia^ 15.5 " 



Length of median femora, 11 " 



Length of posterior femora, 16 " 



Pseudophasma phthisioum (Linnaeus)? 



1758. [Gryllus (Mantis)] phthisicus Linnspus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 425. 

 ["Inlndiis."] 



One male; Carrillo, Costa Rica. [Coll. Morgan Hebard.] 



This specimen appears to be referable to this species, though differing 



considerably in coloration from the descriptions. The S-shaped mark 



on the tegmina is but little crved, while the posterior part of the 



tegmina is as black as the general color of the insect. The wings also 



carry a longitudinal dull ochraceous line along the greater portion of 



the discoidal region, in continuation of the median line on the 



tegmina. 



The following measurements may be of interest : 



Total length, 55.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, . 4 " 



Length of mesonotum 4.7 " 



Length of metathorax 9.1 " 



Length of tegmina ' 6.5 " 



Length of wings, 38.5 " 



Length of abdomen 33 " 



Length of anterior femora 17.5 " 



Length of anterior tibia^, 17.5 " 



Length of median femora, ]5.8 " 



Length of posterior femora 20 " 



Pseudophasma menius (Westwood). 



1S59. Phafitna il/emws Westwood, Cat. Orth. Ins. Brit. Miis., I, v. US, PI. 

 XVII, fig. 2. [Colombia.] 



Twelve specimens, all males; Carrillo, Costa Rica. [Coll. ]\Iorgan 

 Hebard.] Carrillo and San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burg- 

 dorf.) [U. S. N. M.] 



This scries ranges from mars-Ijrown to seal-brown in general color, 

 while the posterior field of the wings shows all intermediates between 

 ecru-drab and cinnamon. Size, according to the series examined, 

 appears to be. subject to but little variation. StaP® has recorded this 

 species from Chiriqui, and Griffini^^ has mentioned a female specimen 



** Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 97. 



^' Bollet. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., Torino, XI, No. 23G, p. 2. 



7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



from the vicinity of the Rio Cianati, Darien, locahties which connect 

 those above mentioned and that of the type. 

 Pseudophasma cryptochlore ^^ n. sp. 



Type. — c? ; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No.V,349, U. S. N. M.] 



Apparently closely allied to P. gambrisius (Westwood),^^ from Vene- 

 zuela, but differing in the structure of the apex of the abdomen, the 

 shorter mesonotum and quite different coloration. Relationship also 

 exists with prasinum (Serville) and pholcus (Westwood). 



Size small; form slender. Head slightly longitudinal, subequal, 

 considerably wider than the pronotum ; occiput with several fine longi- 

 tudinal lines; ocelli very distinct, the anterior one considerably in 

 advance of the others; ej'es subglobose, very prominent; antennae 

 equal to the body in length, first and second joint cylindrical, the latter 

 considerably smaller and shorter than the basal joint, third joint equal 

 to the fourth and fifth together. Pronotum about two-thirds the length 

 of the mesonotum; anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; cruci- 

 form impression slight, the transverse arm toward the lateral margins 

 deflected posteriorly; anterior angles normal though spiraculiferous. 

 ]\Iesonotum rather short and slender, slightly and evenly constricted 

 toward the middle; surface sparsely granulate; median longitudinal 

 sulcus slight but distinct ; mesosternum rugulose with a distinct, though 

 somewhat irregular, median carina. IMetathorax al)out equal to the 

 prothorax and mesothorax in length, beneath with a slight median 

 sulcus. Tegmina not more than half the leng-th of the metathorax, 

 ovate ; median tubercle low and somewhat elongate ; longitudinal veins 

 rather regularly disposed, transverse A'eins irregularly placed and pro- 

 ducing a reticulate effect. Wings almost equal to the body in 

 length, twice as long as broad; costal area with the transverse veins 

 rather regularly disposed. Abdomen with the six basal segments 

 longitudinal, very gradually decreasing in size toward the apex; sev- 

 enth and eighth segments subequal in length, each shorter than the sixth ; 

 ninth segment rather shorter than the eighth, apically subtruncate ; cerci 

 rather short, terete, slightly curved; subgenital opercule slightly ex- 

 ceeding the apex of the eighth dorsal segment, cj^mbiform, the margin 

 rounded, but de^'eloped into a distinct lip or rim. Limbs of moderate 

 length, the anterior and median femora consideral^ly exceeding their 

 respective tibiip in length. Anterior femora equal to the pronotum, 



*^ Kpv-ro^j hidden, and ;i'/w/)oc, green, in allusion to the green of the ventral 

 surface. 



« Catal. Orth. Ins. Bra. Mus., I, p. US, PI. XIV, fig. 2. 




1904.] NATURAL SCONCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



mesonotum and tegmina in length; metatarsi slightly shorter than 

 the remaining tarsal joints in length. Median femora about equal to 

 the pronotum and mesonotum in length; metatarsi equal to the three 

 succeeding joints in length. Posterior femora not quite reaching the 

 apex of the third abdominal segment; tibiae sHghtly shorter than the 

 femora; metatarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length. 

 General color above dull blackish; eyes umber; ocelli dull luteous; 

 antennae blackish, toward the apex bearing two broad annuli of obscure 

 . whitish, which is almost entirely due to the silvery pubescence. Teg- 

 mina with the principal longitudinal veins lined mth pale greenish ; wings 

 with the costal and discoidal areas blackish, the longitudinal veins of 

 the lateral regions lined with apple-green, posterior field of the wings 

 blackish-hyaline, clear whitish basally, the area of the latter tint being 

 comparatively small. Abdomen blackish, becoming dull brownish 

 on the anterior portion of the ventral surface. Ventral and pleural 

 surfaces of the thoracic segments apple-green. Limbs apple-green 

 with the distal portion of each joint blackish, this color on the anterior 

 limbs being very extensive and considerably limiting the greenish area. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 40 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Length of mesonotum, 4 " 



Length of metathorax, 6.1 " 



Length of tegmina, 3.5 " 



Length of wings, 28 " 



Length of abdomen, 25.5 " 



Length of anterior femora, 10.5 " 



Length of anterior tibise, 7 " 



Length of median femora, 6.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 10 " 



A paratype male has also been examined. 



Pseudophasma cyllarus (Westwood). 



1859. Necroscia Cyllarus Westwood, Catal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 

 155, PI. XIII, fig. 2, PI. XIV, fig. 5. [Jamaica.] 



One male; Ivingston, Jamaica. (T. D. A. Cockerell.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 This species falls quite naturally into this genus, but that it is very 

 aberrant there can be no doubt. 



Genus PLANUDES StSl. 

 1875. Planudes Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, III, pp. 59 and 98. 

 Type. — P. perillus Stal. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Planudes crenulipes n. sp. 



Type. — ? ; Tiicurrique, Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No. 7,350, U. S. N. M.] 



Allied to P. paxillus (Westwood)^" and P. periUus Stal.^^ From the 

 former it differs in the absence of distinct spines on the head, the more 

 ovate tegmina, the much longer wings, the slightly longer mesonotum 

 and the lobate posterior femora. From the latter it differs in the larger 

 tegmina and wings, the rather different coloration of the wings, the 

 smaller size, and apparently in the lobate posterior femora, although 

 Stal does not state the condition of the limbs in the specimen examined. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface rugoso-tuberculate. Head 

 longitudinal, equal in width and not broader than the pronotum; 

 occiput with the tubercles rather low and grouped into longitudinal 

 series, the median pair of which diverge posteriorly; eyes globose, 

 rather small, prominent; antennae slightly exceeding the head and 

 thorax in length, basal joint rather oblong, slightly depressed. Pro- 

 notum slightly longer than the head, subequal; anterior and posterior 

 margins truncate; tubercles of even size, disposed in distinct longitudi- 

 nal series ; longitudinal sulcus very slight, transverse sulcus broad and 

 shallow, but very marl^ed. Mesonotum slightly over twice the length 

 of the pronotum, gradually expanding posteriorly, surface rugoso- 

 tuberculate ; metapleura finely rugulose ; metasternum with an irregu- 

 lar median longitudinal carina. Metathorax about as long as the meso- 

 thorax, rather si3arsely tuberculate. Tegmina elliptical; veins irregvi- 

 larly reticulate; median protuberance high, blunt, the posterior portion 

 curved inward toward the anal margin. Wings four times as long as 

 the tegmina, reaching to the middle of the fourth abdominal segment, 

 not quite twice as long as wide; venation rather regular proximally 

 becoming subreticulate distally. Abdomen over half again as long as 

 the head and thorax, the six basal segments longitudinal, the first and 

 second shorter than the succeeding divisions; seventh segment sub- 

 quadrate; eighth and ninth segments distinctly transverse, the latter 

 shorter than the former, and with the apical margin subtruncate and 

 distinctly crenulate; cerci very short, slight and simple, lateral in 

 position; subgenital opercule short, reaching the apex of the seventh 

 dorsal segment, carinate, apex acuminate. Limbs short. Anterior 

 femora about equal to the mesonotum in length, margins crenulate; 

 tibice slightly shorter than the femora, margins crenulate; metatarsi 

 not more than half as long as the remaining tarsal joints. Median femora 



so Catal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 127, PI. XI, fig. 5. 

 " Rec. Orthopt., Ill, p. 98. 




1904.] XATURAT. SCIE.N'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



slightly shorter than the anterior tibiso in length, margins very slightly 

 crenulate; tibiae slightly over two-thirds the length of the mesonotiim, 

 margins moderately and irregularly crenulate; metatarsi less than 

 half the length of the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior femora about 

 equal to the mesonotum in length, superior margins dentato-crenulate, 

 the anterior one with the processes very large, inferior margins with 

 distinct rounded foliaceous lobes ; tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, 

 the superior margins wdtli distinct hemispherical lobes; metatarsi about 

 half as long as the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color olive, irregularly blotched and sprinkled with patches of 

 wood-brown and bearing a very pale suffusion of pea-green on the wings 

 and tegmina. Wings with the base of the costal and the whole dis- 

 coidal area suffused with a wash of vinaceous pink; posterior area pale 

 smoky-hyaline, the veins pale brownish, the whole surface bearing an 

 indefinable bloom of pinkish vinaceous, best seen by viewing the wing 

 obliquely. 



Measurements. 



Total length, 63 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 " 



Length of mesonotum, 8 " 



Length of metathorax, 8.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 7 " 



Length of wings, 26 " 



Length of abdomen, 40 " 



Length of anterior femora, 9.5 " 



Length of anterior tibiae, 8.5 " 



Length of median femora, 7 " 



Length of posterior femora, 8 " 



Genus XEROSOMA Serville. 

 1831. Xerosoma Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 01. 



Type. — Xerosoma canaliculatum Serville. 

 Xerosoma glyptomerion ^- n. sp. 



Types. — d' ; San Carlos, Costa Rica. (Schiid and Burgdorf.) [Cat. 

 No. 7,351, U. S. N. M.] 9 ; Carrillo, Costa Rica. [A. N. S. Phila., 

 presented by Mr. Morgan Hebard.] 



Apparently closer allied to senticosa StaP^ than any other member of 

 the genus, Ijut still very distinct. It can readily be separated by the 

 absence of distinct spines on the pronotum, the greater number of 

 cephalic spines, the shorter mesonotum of the female and a number of 

 other characters. 



52 ylvnro^, sculptured, and MP'm>, thigh. 

 *' Recensio Orthopterorum, III, p. 99. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



d^. — Size rather small; form elongate; surface generally rugulose. 

 Head moderately elongate, subequal; occiput with four distinct spini- 

 form processes; interocular region with three triangularly disposed 

 rather blunt processes, the anterior one smaller than the other two, 

 and bearing upon their summits the ocelli; eyes subglobose, very 

 prominent; antennae equal to the body in length, first and second joint 

 about equal in length, the basal joint somewhat depressed; whole sur- 

 face with a number of evenly distributed spiniform tubercles. Pro- 

 notum about equal to the head in length, rather narrower than the 

 head, subequal in width, anterior angles with a slight projecting pro- 

 cess; anterior and posterior margins truncate; cruciform depression 

 with the transverse arm stronger than the longitudinal branch. Meso- 

 notum about twice the length of the pronotum, subequal in width, 

 somewhat elevated posteriorly; median longitudinal sulcus very dis- 

 tinct posteriorly, obsolete anteriorly; surface rugoso-tuberculate, four 

 spiniform symmetrically disposed tubercles flank the median line ; meso- 

 sternum rugose. Metathorax about equal to the pronotum and meso- 

 notum in length, metapleura and the metasternum sparsely and weakly 

 tuberculate. Tegmina about equal to the metathorax in length, 

 cylindrical-ovate in outline, the base and apex produced and angu- 

 late; median protuberance very distinct, high, rounded, compressed; 

 veins subreticulate, surface rather coriaceous. Wings extending to 

 the middle of the sixth abdominal segment, twice as long as broad; 

 apex subrectangulate. Abdomen with the six basal segments longi- 

 tudinal, decreasing in length distally; seventh dorsal segment two- 

 thirds the leng-th of the sixth; eighth segment considerably shorter 

 than, and ninth about equal to, the seventh segment, the latter com- 

 pressed, subrostrate and vnih the apical margin with a shallow median 

 ^'-shaped emargination ; cerci slender, straight and equal to the ninth 

 dorsal segment in leng-th; subgenital opercule slightly exceeding the 

 apical margin of the eighth dorsal segment, basally bullate, apical por- 

 tion compressed, rather rostrate, the apex itself with a shallow trian- 

 gular emargination. Limbs slender and simple; tibiae about equal to 

 their respective femora in length. Anterior femora equal to the teg- 

 mina, mesonotum and half of the pronotum in leng-th, basal flexure 

 marked; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 

 Median femora about equal to the pronotum and mesonotum in length ; 

 metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. Posterior 

 femora reaching to the middle of the third abdominal segment ; meta- 

 tarsi very slightly shorter than the succeeding joints. 



General color dull paris-green and prout's-brown intermingled. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Head with the spines clear green ; eyes wahiut-brown ; antennae green- 

 ish, each segment with a narrow apical annulus of brown. Mesonotum 

 with the larger spines tipped with clear brown. Tegmina with the 

 median protuberances clear green. Wings with the costal and discoidal 

 regions bearing strongly contrasted blotches of the two colors washed 

 with an ochraceoiis tint; posterior field smoky-hyaline. Limbs with 

 the usual coloration, but the tibiae have the green clear and vitreous. 



? . — Size medium ; form moderately elongate ; surface rugosc- 

 tuberculate. Head somewhat longitudinal, subeciual in width; occi- 

 put bearing about twelve formidable spines ranged in four longitudinal 

 series, of which the median pair contain the greatest number of spines 

 and the posterior ones of which are recurved and considerably larger 

 than any of the others ; interocular region with the ocellar spines much 

 reduced, the anterior one practically obsolete, the ocellus but slightly 

 raised above the surrounding surface; eyes subglobose, moderately 

 prominent; antennge wdth the basal joint strongly depressed; entire 

 dorsal surface sprinkled with small spiniform tubercles. Pronotum 

 slightly shorter than the head, very strongly emarginate over the ante- 

 rior coxae; anterior margin broadly and evenly emarginate, posterior 

 margin truncate ; median line flanked by a longitudinal row of several 

 short spines. Mesonotum not quite twice the length of the pronotum, 

 subequal in width ; no median carina or sulcus present ; surface strongly 

 rugoso-tuberculate ; mesopleurse and mesosternum rugoso-tuberculate, 

 the lower margins of the former and the lateral borders of the latter 

 bearing distinct tuberculous ridges. Metathorax slightly longer than 

 the other thoracic segments together; metasternum obsoletely tuber- 

 culate ; metapleurte bearing along their lower margins a series of four 

 distinct rounded tubercles. Tegmina equal to the head, pronotum and 

 mesonotum in length, elongate-elliptical; apex narrowly romided; 

 tubercle placed distinctly anterior to the middle, high, roimded, com- 

 pressed; surface coriaceous, subreticulate, and bearing a number of 

 small node-like projections. Wings about equal to the abdomen in 

 length; costal and discoidal areas with the transverse nervures rather 

 regular in character. Abdomen depressed, each segment with the 

 lateral margins developed into a more or less crenulate foliaceous flap ; 

 the five basal segments longitudinal, the fifth broader than the others; 

 sixth segment quadrate; seventh, eighth and ninth segments trans- 

 verse, decreasing in length distally, median carina present on the sev- 

 enth and represented by two parallel ridges on the eighth, ninth seg- 

 ment crcnulato-truncate; cerci slender, almost equal to the ninth dor- 

 sal segment in length, apex blunt ; subgenital opercule rather short, 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



reaching to the middle of the eighth dorsal segment, V-shaped in sec- 

 tion, the apex subtrmicate with a triangular median projection. 

 Limbs rather short j-^* tibiae about equal to their respective femora in 

 length; femora with nearly all their carinse bearing distinct subdenti- 

 form lobes, those of the superior carinse being the more prominent; 

 tibiae with superior margins only bearing such lobes. Anterior femora 

 almost equal to the tegmina in length, basal flexure distinct and 

 strongly bowed, superior external margin bearing five lobes, ^^ superior 

 internal margin four lobes, the inferior internal margin none, the in- 

 ferior external margin ten; tibise bearing four very large and distinct 

 lobes on the external margin, internal margin with four smaller lobes 

 placed in juxtaposition to those of the external margin; metatarsi 

 considerably shorter than the remaining tarsal joints, and bearing 

 several small jagged lobes on its superior surface. ]\Iedian femora 

 equal to the mesonotum and half of the metanotum in length, superior 

 margins with five lobes placed in juxtaposition, inferior margins with 

 four distinct lobes placed as on the superior carinse, median carina of 

 the lower surface with several obsolete lobes; tibise with five more or 

 less distinct lobes placed as on the anterior limbs; metatarsi not 

 exceeding the second and third tarsal joints in length, unarmed. 



General color olive and drab, intermingled and suffused on the head, 

 portions of the thorax and anterior limbs with very pale cinnamon. 

 Eyes walnut-brown. Tegmina pale paris-grcen, which becomes rather 

 clear and subvitrcous on the protuberances. 



Measurements. 



. 6" 9 



Total length, 54 mm. 65 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.G " 3 " 



Length of mesonotum, 6.2 " 6.5 " 



Length of metanotum, 8.1 " 11 



Length of tegmina, S " 14 " 



Length of wings, 33 " 50 '' 



Length of abdomen, 33 " 49 " 



Length of anterior femora 14.5 " 13 " 



Length of anterior tibia?, 14.5 " 12 " 



Length of median femora, 8.5 " 8 " 



Length of posterior femora, 12 " 



Further study may possil^ly show that the two sexes here described 

 as one species represent two forms. In such a case the name can ]jc 

 restricted to the male. 



^* Posterior pair missing in the type. 



^^ As the left leg appears abnormal in a number of ways, these figures have been 

 taken from the riglit limb. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Genus METRIOTES Westwood. 

 1859. Metriotes Westwood, Catal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 15S. 

 Type. — Metriotes diodes Westwood.^'' 



Metriotes agathocles St&l. 



1875. M[etriotes\ Agathocles Stal, Recensio OrthopteroruDi, III, p. 100. 

 ["Australia? Sine dubio species americana."] 



One female; Costa Rica. (Schild and Burgdorf.) [U. S. X. M.] 

 This specimen fully agrees with the very insufficient description of 

 the specimen Stal had in hand, but unfortunateh' the anterior limbs 

 are missing, and a portion of Stal's diagnosis treats of these append- 

 ages. 



Genus PRISOPUS St. Fargeau and Serville. 



1825. Prisopus St. Fargeau and Serville, Encj'c. ]\Iethod., Insect., X, p. 444. 



Included Prisopus draco Olivier (=Phasma nym.'pha St oil) and 

 sacratus Olivier { = Phasma flabelliformis St oil). 



Prisopus berosus Westwood. 



1859. Prisopus Berosus Westwood, Catal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, p. 168, 

 PI. XX, fig. 7. ["Litt. occid. America septentrionalis. Panama."] 



Two specimens; cT and immature female: X'icaragua. [U. S. X^. M.] 

 Carrillo, Costa Rica. [Coll. Morgan Hebard.] 



Subfamily PHYLLIN.E. 

 Genus PHYLLIUM lUiger. 

 1798. Phyllium lUiger, Verzeichniss Kafer Preussens, p. 499. 



Type. — Mantis siccifolia Fabricius = Gryllus (Mantis) siccifolius 

 LiimjEUS. 



The three species treated below all belong to GrifRni's subgenus 

 Pulchriphyllium.^^ 



^^ Westwood's genus included the following species: 



stollii. 



blanchardi. 



santara — Isagoras Stal, 1875. 



bubastes — Isagoras Stal, 1875. 



obscura — Isagoras Stal, 1875. 



dictys — Prexaspes Stal, 1875. 



myrsihis. 



diodes. 



venosa. 



acuticornis. 



serrillei — Prexaspes Stal, 1875. 



brevipennis. 



rugicollis. 

 Of these diodes can be selected as the type. 

 ^' Bollettino Mttsei Zool. ed Anat. Co7tip.', Torino, XIII, Xo. 312, p. 2. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Phyllium bioculatum Gray. 



1832. [Phyllium'] hioculatmn Gray, in Griffith's Anim. Kingdom. X^^ p. 191, 

 PI. 63, fig. 3. [Locality unknown.] 



One female; Seychelles. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. :\I.] 

 This specimen is of a very pale yellowish-green color. 

 WestwoocP^ states regarding this species that the "male seems to 

 me scarcely to differ materially from that of Ph. Scythe." Such is 

 by no means true of the female, as this sex of the two species presents 

 very different appearances. 



Phyllium pulchrifolium Serville. 



1839. Phyllium piilchrifolium Serville, Orthopteres, p. 292. [Java.] 



Three specimens ; tw^o adult females, one immature male : 



Java. [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Near Buitenzorg, Java, July, 1897. (D. G. Fairchild.) [U. S. N. I\I.] 

 "Collected on leaves of Nephelium lappaceiim." 



The female from Buitenzorg has the tegmina and limbs Vv'ood-brown, 

 while the body is faded greenish. Information with the specimen 

 states the color is due to imperfect drying. Wliile this is ciuite likely 

 true of the body, it is hardly probable that the tegmina have changed. 

 In the event of the specimen having possessed brown tegmina, it would 

 approach the brown variety described by Lucas^^ from Batavi-i. 



Phyllium scythe Gray. 



1843. Phyllium Scythe Grav, Zoologist, I, p. 122, figure (on page 121). 

 [Sylhet.] 



One female; Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. N. 

 M.] 



This spcciiTicn differs slightly from the figure given by West wood, ^^ 

 the apex of the abdomen being more constricted, in fact somewhat 

 approaching -pulclirijolium in this respect. After carefully examining 

 the literature, it a]3pears very much as if the scythe and pidchrijolimn 

 were simply geograj^hic races of the same species, the Trong specimen 

 being a direct intermediate, both structurally and gcographicalh-. 

 Gray's reference of Haan's figure^^ of pulchrifolimn to scythe appears 

 erroneous, as the form of the abdomen and almost all the acces- 

 sory lobes of the limbs rei^resent true pulchrijolium. The Trong 

 specimen has the right posterior limb regenerated and alDout one-fifth 

 the normal size. 



58 Catol. Orth. his. Brit. Mus.. I, p. 175. 



'■>^ Bull. Soc. Ent. France (5), VII, p. xxxiii. 



«<> Cntal. Orth. Ins. Brit. Mus., I, PI. XXXI, fig. 2. 



^1 Natuurl. Gesch. Xederl. Ocerzeesche Bezitt., Insecta, PI. XV, fig. 6. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Another specimen, a very immature female, from Khow Sai Dow, 

 Trong, collected in January or February, 1899, by Dr. Abbott, may 

 be referable to this species, but considering the condition of the 

 specimen a positive determination is impossible. 



Remarks on the General System of the Family. 



While not prepared to bring forward any very radical departures 

 from Brunner's table of the divisions of this group,^^ it may not be out 

 of place to mention the impressions received while studying the 

 material herewith recorded. Brunner's Lonchodidce, Bacunculidce and 

 BacteridcB appear to be much closer related than his arrangement would 

 lead one to suppose. The Heieronemince (Bacunculidce Brunner) is 

 very close to the Bacterince; in fact, it is extremely difficult to settle 

 into which division to put certain genera, and this is so marked that 

 Kirby has transferred some genera placed by Brunner in the Bacunculidce 

 to the Bacterina;. 



The genera Phyllium and Chitoniscus are such extremely aberrant 

 types that the division including them should have higher taxonomic 

 rank than generally accorded to it. 



Laying aside the question as to whether the divisions should be of 

 family or subfamily rank, it appears evident that Brunner's Lon- 

 chodidce, Bacunculidce and Bacteridce are simply divisions of a group 

 not exceeding in rank the well-marked Necroscidce. Again, the 

 Phyllidoe should have a rating practically equal to the other members 

 of the "Phasmodea," a position warranted by its extreme differentia- 

 tion. 



«2 Ann. Mus. Civ. Star. Nat. Cenova, XXXIII, pp. 79-81. 




108 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE KOSES OF PECOS, NEW MEXICO. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Pecos, New Mexico, is on the upper Pecos river, about 6,800 feet 

 above sea level and no A^ery great distance from Santa Fe. It has 

 essentially the flora made familiar to botanists everywhere by the 

 collections of Fendler and Heller, the cafion a few miles above the 

 village furnishing Galpinsia fendleri (Gray), Cerens triglochidiatus En- 

 gelm., Sphceralcea fendleri Gray, Viola neomexicana Greene, Berberis 

 fendleri Gray, Linum aiistrale Heller, L. puherulum (Engelm.), Ver- 

 bena macdougali Heller, Philadelphus microphyllus Gray (the flowers 

 of which have an odor like that of spoiled oranges), Salix irrorata 

 Anders., Sidalcea neomexicana Gray, etc., etc. The bottom land 

 through which the Pecos river flows is thickly wooded for a few miles 

 on the Kin Kale Ranch, the trees being Popidus angusUfolia James, 

 with a mixture of willows, Alnus tenuifolia Nuttall, and on the out- 

 skirts Quercus novomexicana (A.DC), Q. leptophylla Rydberg (new to 

 New Mexico), etc. Under the shade of the trees it is cool and moist, 

 so that members of the Canadian zone flora are able to grow, while a 

 fcAv hundred yards away the dry bluffs possess a typically austral and 

 xerophytic assemblage of plants. As a result of these conditions the 

 locality, taken as a whole, is remarkably rich in species of both plants 

 and animals. The roads and cultivated fields are skirted by oak- 

 bushes, including the peculiar Quercus havardi Rydberg, only known 

 previously from Texas. Roses are abundant, and a few species of 

 climbing plants {Clematis ligusticifolia Nutt., Humulus lupidus neo- 

 mexicanus Nelson and CklL, Parthenocissus quinquefolia (L.) Planch) 

 are very conspicuous. The common weeds include Grindelia inorrmta 

 Greene, Lathyrus decaphyllus Pursh, Argentinia anserina (L.), Vicia 

 americana Muhl., Salsola tragus L., Anogra coronopifoUa (T. and G.), 

 Verbascum thapsus L., Erodium cicutarium (L.), Physalis pubescens L., 

 Allionia viscida {Oxybaphus angustifolius var. viscidus Eastwood, Pr. 

 Cal. Ac. Sci., 1896, p. 313), Solanum jamesii Torrey, Helianthus petio- 

 laris Nutt., H . annuus L., etc. Quite a surprise was the discovery of 

 a -large quantity of Chrysanthemum leucanthemum in a field on the Kin 

 Kale Ranch, this plant being hitherto unknown in New Mexico. The 

 austral Solanum ekeagnifolium was seen growing near Harrison's Store, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



while Sophia halidorum Ckll. (with the beetle PhyUotreta pusilla Horn, 

 living upon it), occupied the roofs of adobe houses in the village. At 

 the Old Pecos Pueblo, a few miles to the south, we found Astragalus 

 simulans Ckll., hitherto only known from Las Vegas. Malvastrwn 

 cockerelH A. Nelson, was very common on the Kin Kale Ranch; so 

 also was the beautiful Touterea rushyi (Wooton). Fallugia acuminata 

 (F. paradoxa acuminata Wooton) and F. acuminata micrantha {F. 

 micrantha Ckll.) formed large patches, and were very attractive to 

 insects. The scarlet Castilleia Integra Gray, with the large-bracted 

 form intermedia Ckll., were very conspicuous. A single plant of Datura 

 tatula L., is worth recording; it is, of course, an accidental introduc- 

 tion. Onosmodium thurberi Gray, grew in some quantity by the Pecos 

 river. 



Spending a summer in this beautiful place, I took the opportunity 

 to study the native roses. The result of this study is here presented, 

 not because I have reached any final or dogmatic opinions, but because 

 it seems that field-study in many different localities is the only method 

 whereby the species of the group Cinnamomese will ever be understood. 

 When we have accumulated a sufficient number of observations on the 

 living plants, some talented botanist may find himself able to tell us 

 what they all mean; but for the present observations are perhaps of 

 more consequence than deductions. 



A large part of the material studied was collected and brought to 

 me in the living state by Dr. M. Grabham, of Jamaica, who spent part 

 of the Slimmer at Pecos. I was able to distinguish three main forms, 

 two of which are here introduced as new. While it is difficult, if not 

 impossible, to state definitely how many valid species exist among the 

 Cinnamomese, it seems much better to designate the recognizable forms 

 by name, than to lump them indiscriminately under the few specific 

 titles. It is just this process of lumping which has made so much con- 

 fusion, the same name being applied to a different plant by each of 

 several authors. The characters of the three forms referred to may 

 best be set forth in parallel columns. 




no 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Rosa arkansana Porter, 

 var. a. 



Low bush. 



Flowers about 45 mm. 

 cliam., pink, petals 

 white at base. 



Flowers many together. 

 Anthers longer. 



Stigmas pinkish in bud, 

 without any pink in 

 open flower. 



Sepals foliolar-tipped, 

 narrow, with woolly 

 edges, entire, with 

 many reddish stout 

 gland-hairs beneath 

 and on the sides of tlie 

 apical half. 



Sepals very long (up to 21 

 mm.), projecting far 

 beyond bud. 



Fruit (Aug. 13) smooth, 

 globose, neckless, the 

 sepals erect. 



Buds very glandular. 

 Peduncles glabrous^ 

 shining. 



Prickles slender and scat- 

 tered on stems ; few and 

 scattered on flowering 

 branchlets; straight. 



Infrastipular spines none, 

 or not distinguishable 

 from tlie others. 



Stipules broad (diam. 

 about 12 mm.), resin- 

 ous, not villous. 



R. ■prcetincta, n. sp. {ov R. pecosensis, n. sp. (or 

 var.?). var.?). ^ 



Rather low bush. 

 Flowers pale pink. 



Flowers usually in threes 

 (2-1-1), sometimes 2 

 only, sometimes 4. 



Stigmas deep red in bud, 

 pale pinkish in open 

 flower. 



Sepals quite glandular, 

 the outer with linear 

 lobes. 



Sepals short (up to 13 

 mm.), not projecting 

 much beyond bud. 



Fruit globose. 



Buds glandular. 



Prickles on old growth 

 few and straight; 

 green parts unarmed. 



No infrastipular spines. 



Sitpules often narrow. 



Usually high bush. 



Flowers about 50 mm. 

 diam., deep crimson, 

 petals white at base. 



Flowers in pairs, or often 

 single. Anthers shorter. 



Stigmas pinkish in bud, 

 pale yellow in open 

 flower. 



Sepals foliolar-tipped, 

 narrow, with woolly 

 edges, with linear lat- 

 eral lobes, and wholly 

 without reddish gland- 

 hairs. 



Sepals medium (up to 

 about 15 mm.), pro- 

 jecting moderately be- 

 yond bud. 



Fruit gloliose, S mm. di- 

 ameter, with hardly 

 any neck; sepals per- 

 sistent, erect, but re- 

 flexed immediately af- 

 ter flowering 



Buds minutely pubes- 

 cent, not glandular. 

 Peduncles sparsely sub- 

 lanate with scattered 

 hairs. 



Prickles slender and scat- 

 tered on stems ; few and 

 scattered on flowering 

 branchlets, where they 

 are more or less hook- 

 ed. 



Infrastipular spines ab- 

 sent, or sometimes 

 present in pairs, all on 

 same branch. 



Stipules narrow (diam. 

 about 6 mm.), sparing- 

 ly villous Ijeneath, not 

 glandular. 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ill 



Rosa arkansana Porter, R. prcetincia, n. sp. (or R. pecosensis, n. sp. (or 

 var. a. var.?). var.?). 



Petioles glabrous, with 

 numerous knobbed 



gland-hairs. 



Leaflets 7 on flowering 

 branches, 9 on new 

 shoots from base. 



Leaflets mostly smaller 

 and broader, e.g., 20 

 mm. long, 16 broad; 

 lateral leaflets almost 

 sessile, except on basal 

 shoots; midrib beneath 

 glabrous, with numer- 

 ous short red gland- 

 hairs ; serrations mi- 

 nutely serrulate, with 

 numerous small knob- 

 bed glands. 



Leaflets commonly only 

 5, often 7, often 5 + 

 an odd basal one. 



Leaflets unusually long 

 and narrow, e.g., 25 

 mm. long, 13 broad; 

 cuneate at base; resin- 

 dotted beneath, mid- 

 ribs witliout obvious 

 gland-hairs ; serrations 

 deep and simple, mar- 

 gin without gland- 

 hairs. 



Petioles minutely pubes- 

 cent, not glandular. 



Leaflets 7, sometimes 9, 

 sometimes 5, with an 

 odd basal leaflet mak- 

 ing 6. 



Leaflets mostly larger 

 and narrower in pro- 

 portion, e.g., 33 mm. 

 long, 20 broad; lateral 

 leaflets distinctly petio- 

 lulate; midrib beneath 

 lanulate with short 

 hairs, not glandular ; 

 serrations simple, 

 sharp, margin minutely 

 hairy, not glandular. 



All these plants have dull green foliage, not shiny, as Elias Nelson 

 describes R. woodsii. This also separates them from R. neomexicana 

 Ckll., of southern New Mexico, described in Entomological News, Febru- 

 ary, 1901, p. 41.^ This Rosa neomexicana is further distinguished by 

 the oblong fruits, which are small and scarlet, with persistent erect 

 sepals. It also has normally pairs of infrastipular spines, and mostly 

 solitary flowers. 



Rosa pecosensis is one of the most beautiful roses known to me. The 

 type was collected by my wife and Dr. Grabham, about six miles up the 

 cafion above the Kin Kale Ranch, June 1, 1903; but the j^lant is also 

 common down as far as the village of Pecos. When the flowers first 

 open the petals are depressed, so that they lie below the plane, the 

 surface of the flower becoming convex. A curious character observed 

 is the presence of a deep notch in one petal only, always an inner one. 

 The flowers vary in size down to about 42 mm. diameter, or occasion- 

 ally only 37 mm. 



If the three roses described above always held their characters, tliere 

 would be no hesitation about regarding them as distinct species. Speci- 

 mens occur, however, which vary in different wa3'S, and some of them 



^ The article containing this description was intended for Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., but was transferred to the News, for which it is altogether too botanical. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



appear to connect the main types. It is possible that this may in part 

 be the result of hybridization, but we are not entitled to assume this 

 without better evidence. The observed variations are as follows: 

 Bosa peoosensis. 



(1) Upper Pecos-town, June 19. Flowers very fragrant, about 37 

 mm. diameter; sepals entire, rarely with linear lobes; leaflets minutely 

 resin-dotted beneath; leaflets on basal sheets sometimes eleven. In- 

 fested sparingly by Eidecanium. 



(2) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21 (Grabham). Flowers bright pink, not 

 so dark as some; 45 mm. diameter; no strongly notched petal; sepals 

 rarely with linear lobes ; stipules 5 mm. broad or rather more ; leaflets 7. 



(3) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21. (Grabham.) As usual, except that 

 the sepals sometimes show some marginal red knobbed gland-hairs. 



(4) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21. (Grabham.) Flowers very deep 

 red; outer sepals with cjuite a numl^er of red gland-hairs; midribs of 

 leaflets beneath with scattered very short and minute red gland-hairs; 

 leaf-margins inclined to be doubly serrate, the secondary serrations 

 gland-tipped; leaflets almost sessile; flowers single. This is in many 

 respects like the R. arkansana var. o, and could be a hybrid, if hybrids 

 occur. 



(5) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21. (Grabham.) Typical, but stipules 

 variable up to 8 mm. broad. 



(6) Kin Kale Ranch, June 21. (Grabham.) Flowers paler, rose- 

 pink, about 36 mm. diameter; leaves unusually large (upper lateral 

 leaflets up to 33 mm. long); midribs of leaflets lanulose beneath, with 

 only rudimentary gland-hairs; leaflets deeply and simply notched; 

 sepals lanulose, not glandular, with linear lateral lobes; flowers solitary 

 or in pairs; stigmas yellowish in rather advanced bud. This is essen- 

 tially pecosensis, the only material difference l^eing in the paler flowers. 

 Seen from a distance, the flowers of R. pecoscnsis always appear single, 

 as one bud of a pair comes out before the other. The plants are some- 

 times infested by prickly leaf-galls, of the species Rhodites spinoselliis 

 Ckll. 



Rosa prsetincta. 



No varieties were found. In Watson's table this species runs to R. 

 hlanda, except that the sepals are not entire. In Crepin's table it also 

 runs to blanda, except that the flowers are comparatively small. There 

 is no R. blanda in New ^lexico, however. 

 Rosa arkansana var. a. 



I had considered this to be the true R. fendleri of Crepin, not of 8. 

 Watson. Dr. Rydberg, to whom I sent a copy of my description, wrote 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



that he could not agree with this, but that I apparently had the long- 

 lost R. arkansana Porter, only certainly known bj^ the original col- 

 lection by Brandegee. As this seems reasonable, I provisionally call 

 my plant arkansana, the more willingly since the name has priority over 

 jendleri, supposing them to refer to one species. The material described 

 above grows by a small irrigation ditch in open unshaded groimd, which 

 except for the ditch is very drj^ On August 13 a fruiting bush of the 

 same species was found close to the Pecos river, more or less in the 

 shade. It possessed the following characters : 



Fruit very shiny, smooth, globose (long. 9^, lat. 9, to long. 12, lat. 

 10 mm.), slightly longer than broad, without the slightest indication of 

 a neck. Sepals erect, 15 mm. long, some with linear lobes ; the margins 

 woolly, the dorsal sm-face with loose arachnoid hairs and scattered 

 gland-hairs. Peduncles perfectly glabrous and somewhat glaucous, 

 5-10 mm. long. Infrastipular spines variable, present or absent. 

 Spines on flowering branchlets straight. Stipules very narrow, diam- 

 eter 2-4 mm., beneath with loose arachnoid hairs and short reddish- 

 gland-hairs; petioles minutely pubescent, with scattered short red 

 gland-hairs; leaflets 7 to 9, rather narrow {e.g., long. 23, lat. 12^ mm.), 

 resin-dotted beneath, simply toothed, edges not glandular, lateral 

 leaflets briefly petiolulate. A low bush. 



It will be seen that this in many respects approaches R. pccosensis. 

 R. arkansana, var. a, was infested by an aphid, which appears to be 

 identical with Myzus rosarum Walker. 



In order to appreciate the characters of the Pecos roses, it is neces- 

 sary to review the described North American species of the same group, 

 and also certain forms occurring in other parts of Xew ^lexico. 



The Described Species. 

 (1) Rosa grosseserrata E. Nelson. 



Bot. Gaz., August, 1900, p. 119. 



Type from the Yellowstone Park, collected in fruit. I am indebted 

 to Prof. Aven Nelson for a specimen. This is quite like typical R. 

 pecosensis in the serrations and pubescence of the leaves ; the serrations 

 are long and pointed, perfectly simple and not glandular. The stipules 

 are broader than in pecosensis. The fruit is considerably larger, about 

 12 mm. diameter. The author of this species-name thinks the plant 

 is intermediate between R. pisocarpa and R. icoodsii, and I believe 

 that it is not so close to pecosensis as the resemblance of the leaves 

 might suggest. The absence of paired infrastipular spines or prickles 

 seems to remove R. grosseserrata from the vicinity of R. pisocarpa and 

 S 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



woodsii, but I am convinced that the value of this character has been 

 much exaggerated. Crepin in liis table (1896) indicates the variabilitj^ 

 of pisocarpa in this respect. 



(2) E. arkansana Porter. 



Much emphasis has been placed upon the statement in the original 

 description that the sepals are reflexed in fruit. This seems to dis- 

 tinguish my plant from the true arkansana (the fruit was miknown 

 whemi consulted Dr. Rydberg), but I strongly suspect that, as is usual 

 in the group, the sepals are more or less reflexed at first, but ultimately 

 erect. Another discrepancy is in the leaflets, which are 9 to 11 in true 

 arkansana, but 7 to 9 in my plant. The other characters seem very 

 similar in both plants. 



(3) R. fendleri Crepin. 



I regret very much that I cannot make sure of fendleri, but this is 

 perhaps not surprising, as Crepin himself did not know what to do with 

 it twenty years after its description. Dr. Rydberg writes: ''My idea 

 ofJRJfendleri is a low shrub with evident infrastipular spines, and with 

 stipules, petioles and peduncles glandular." No such rose as this was 

 founcljat' Pecos. Rehder's account of R. fendleri (in Bailey's Cyclo- 

 pedia of American Horiicidture) indicates a totally different plant from 

 that indicated by Dr. Rydberg, much more in the manner of R. peco- 

 sensis. However, the sepals are said to be quite entire, and the flowers 

 normally in clusters. 



(4) R.'^gymnocarpa Nuttall. 



Easily separated from ours by the deciduous sepals. 



(5) R. neomexicana Ckll. 

 Fruits oblong; sec above. 



(6) R. aciculata (Ckll.). 



Wet Moimtain Valley, Colorado. Described as R. blanda var. 

 aciculata in Science Gossip, 1SS9, p. 18S. Type at Kew; photographs 

 distributed to several herbaria. This has the flowers not very large, 

 bright pink; prickles straight, slender, pale; sepals entire, hispid; 

 stipules dilated, entire or slightly toothed at apex; leaflets 5 to 7, broad- 

 oval, simply'serrate, pale beneath. There are no paired infrastipular 

 prickles. This appears to bo allied to R. sayi, which occurs in the same 

 vicinity, but the leaves arc very much smaller, and their marginal 

 teeth are normally simple. 



(7) R. sayi Schwein. 



Low, with large, thin, doubly-serrate leaflets; grows in moist places, 

 and occurs as far south as Beulah, New Mexico. Just how far the char- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



acters of this rose result directly from its surroundings is perhaps an 

 open question. If it could be transferred to a dry sunny place the 

 result might be something not very different from aciculata; but this 

 is mere guessing. The type locahty of sayi is somewhere near the 

 British boundary. 



(8) R. engelmanni S. Wats. 



Rehder gives this and sayi both as varieties of R. acicularis Lindley, 

 but this seems imreasonable. I have foimd R. engelmanni abundantly 

 near the Halfway House on Pike's Peak, Colorado, and it seems very 

 distinct by its greatly elongated fruit. 



(9) R. pratincola Greene. 



The prairie species, formerly confused with arkansana. It is only 

 one or two feet high, and has 7 to 11 leaflets. The stipviles are only 

 softly pubescent. 



(10) R. suifulta Greene. 



A low form of open gromid, described from Las Vegas, New Mexico, 

 where I have collected it. I found it many years ago at Ula, Colorado, 

 and described it in MS. as a new variety of R. arkansana, but the de- 

 scription was not published. My specimen is at Kew, The flowers 

 are quite large, 66 mm. across, the petals pale, and often inclined to be 

 streaked. 



(11) R. manca Greene. 



W, Mancos Cafion, S. Colorado, at 10,000 feet. Another of the small 

 species, about a foot high. The recurved prickles, small flowers, very 

 narrow stipules, etc., distinguish it. 



(12) R. macounii Greene. 



Assiniboia to Cheyenne, Wyoming. A low shrub of dry elevated 

 plains ; leaves wholly glandless, leaflets mostly 9 or 11 ; flowers solitary, 

 small and rather pale ; fruits depressed-globose. 



(13) R. woodsii Lindley. 



A northern species, apparently not found in New Mexico. Accord- 

 ing to Watson, it is distinguished by the presence of infrastipular spines 

 and laterally lobed outer sepals, and is usually a low bush, not over 

 three feet high. Rydberg {Flora of Montana) states that the R. fendleri 

 of Watson and Coulter is the true R. woodsii, and remarks that the 

 character of lobed sepals is inconstant, and that in Lindley's original 

 description they are said to be entire. The fruit is small and red, and 

 the leaves are nearly glabrate, and according to E. Nelson shiny, 

 those of R. fendleri being dull. Rehder in his table says the sepals of 

 R. pisocarpa and fendleri are quite entire, while those of woodsii are 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



lobed; in this he doubtless merely follows Watson. He suggests, 

 however, that pisocarpa and fendleri may be varieties of woodsii. 

 Cr^pin, in 1896, dismissed woodsii as a doubtful species. Lindley, in 

 his first description, said the prickles were scattered, becoming paired 

 (under the stipules) toward the extremities. In Bot. Reg., XII, PI. 976, 

 lie figured them as quite regularly paired, both on the branches and 

 floriferous branchlets; the leaflets are represented as oboval and attenu- 

 ate at base, with simple teeth. It will be apparent from all this that 

 B. woodsii is not well understood, but it seems to be a low northern 

 form allied to the R. neomexicana of New Mexico, and not to any of 

 the Pecos roses. 



There is in the Kew herbarium a rose labelled R. arkansana, from 

 ]\Iedicine Hat, June 1, 1894, John Macoun, 4,567. It has the leaflets in 

 sevens, pale, more or less cordate or truncate, varying to more rounded, 

 sharply serrate ; flowers rather small, corymbose ; sepals reflexed after 

 flowering, without lateral lobes. This is certainly not R. macounii, nor 

 can it very well be the real cvkansana; may it be the genuine ivoodsii ? 



(14) R. maximiliani Nees. 



A species of western Nebraska, differing from ivoodsii by its larger 

 yellow fruit and more pubescent leaves. 



(15) R. blanda Aiton. , 



A smooth, slightly prickly rose of Hudson's Bay and Newfoundland. 

 Various Rocky Mountain plants have been confused wdth it. 



(16) R. acicularis Lindley. 



An Arctic species of the Old World (Siberia and northern Europe), 

 said by Watson to occur in northern Alaska. It has oblong fruit; 

 leaves with five leaflets, with simple teeth and not glandular beneath. 

 The Rock}' Mountain representative is R. engelmanni. 



(17) R. californica C. and S. 



This Californian rose is represented in the Rocky ^Mountains b}^ var. 

 vltramontana Watson, which Crepin thought rather a variety of R. 

 pisocarpa. Dr. Rydberg, after seeing my description of R. pccoscnsis, 

 suggested that it might be ''R. californica idtramoniana, a good species 

 not closely related to R. californica, and growing in Utah, Wyoming 

 and Colorado." However, when this suggestion was made the fruit 

 of R. pecosensis had not been discovered. 



(18) R. pisocarpa Gray. 



A species of Oregon, with oval leaflets, stipules and bracts entire, 

 small flowers and small globose fruits. Extends northward to Pritisli 

 Columbia. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



(19) R. nutkana Presl. 



Alaska to Utah, but there is no evidence that it occurs as far south as 

 New Mexico. Rydberg says : " Recognized by its large flowers,, stout 

 spines, doubly serrate firm leaves and large fruit." This suggests 

 sayi, but the latter has thin leaves, and lacks the infrastipular spines 

 of nutkana. 



(20) R. macdougali Holz. 



A species of the northern Rocky ^Mountains, distinguished from 

 nutkana by the densely bristly peduncles, and the infrastipular spines 

 much smaller. 



(21) R. melina Greene. 



A Colorado species confused with nutkana, but distinct by its small 

 glabrous foliage, short and hooked prickles, and sepals neither long- 

 attenuate nor glandular on the back. The fruit is very large, somewhat 

 obpyriform, nearly 1^ inches in diameter. Perhaps the Utah '' nut- 

 kana" will also be found to belong here. 



There are still other species of Cinnamomese, but from their distri- 

 bution and characters they do not require consideration here. It is 

 hoped that the above summary will facilitate the identification of 

 Rocky Mountain roses. 



Some New^ Mexico Roses. 



(1) Manzanares Valley, New Mexico (Mary Cooper). A rose with 

 large leaves, having the characters of R. sayi, but the serrations only 

 very slightly compound. Inflorescence one-flowered, flowers bright 

 pink. A moderate number of prickles on flowering branch. The 

 lateral leaflets are about 30 mm. long and 20 broad. I refer this to 

 R. sayi, variety. 



(2) Santa Fe, New Mexico (Cockerell) ; in herb. N. M. Agric. College. 

 Flowering stems with numerous slender straight prickles; stems not 

 dark; leaflets often in elevens, cmieiform with broadly rounded ends, 

 very slightly inclined to be doubly serrate, about 28 mm. long and 18 

 broad, color on both sides nearly the same ; sepals narrow, covered with 

 large Icnobbed gland-hairs; fruit red, rather large, obpyriform, almost 

 globular; sepals persistent. This runs to R. arkansana in Cr^pin's 

 table ; it is nearly the same as R. suffulta, differing by the very obtuse 

 leaflets and more glandular sepals. Can this be the genuine R. fendleri? 



(3) White Mountains, New Mexico (Turner) ; in herb. N. M. Agric. 

 College. This was found labelled "fendleri," but it is very different 

 from the Santa Fe plant by its dark flowering sterns^ with few but 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Straight and strong ochreous spines; leaves pale beneath, leaflets 5 or 

 7; flowers bright pink, not large. This is R. neomexicana. 



In 1895 Prof. Wooton collected a rose on Wliite Mountain, New 

 Mexico, with corymbose flowers and very long and narrow leaflets 

 having very long sharp teeth. The stem is dark, with rather numerous 

 light ochraceous slightly curved prickles. This is much like an Illinois 

 specimen of R. hlanda, and requires further investigation. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 119 



January 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that the following. papers had 

 been received for publication: — 



"Observations on Tupaia, with Reflections upon the Origin of 

 Primates," by Henry C. Chapman. (January 5.) 



"New Japanese Marine Mollusca," by Henry A. Pilsbry. (Jan. 9.) 



"The Arachnida of Florida," by Nathan Banks. (January 12.) 



" Sabellidse and Sorpulidse from Japan," by J. Percy Moore. (Janu- 

 ary 18.) 



" New Japanese Marine Mollusca : Pelecypoda," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 (January 18.) 



A paper entitled "A Collection of Fishes from Sumatra," by Henry 

 W. FoAvler, had been accepted for publication in the Journal and 

 would conclude the twelfth volume. 



Note on the Characinidce.—MR. Henry W. Fowler desired to place 

 on record the following : 



EucYNOPOTAMUs uom. nov. 



Evermannella Eigenmann, Smithsn. Miscel. Coll., XTA', December 9, 1903, 

 p. 146 (biserialis). 



Mr. Fowler was indebted to Mr. E. L. Goldsborough, of the United 

 States Fish Commission, for calling attention to the name Evermannella, 

 which has recently been employed by Dr. Eigenmann for a genus of 

 Characinidce. The speaker had previously applied the name to the 

 Odontostomida;} {Eu, properly; xuw^, dog; Ttozand^, river.) 



The following were ordered to be printed : 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., LIII, 1901 (1901-2), p. 211. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE ARACHNIDA OF FLORIDA. 

 BY XATHAX BANKS. 



For about the past twelve years I have l^een receiving spiders from 

 Florida, and now have accumulated a larger mumber of species than 

 from any other State, except where collected for years by an arachnolo- 

 gist. From time to time I have published descriptions of the new 

 species, so that there are feAv new forms to record now. However, it 

 will be interesting to publish the entire list of Floridan spiders, as a 

 means of comparing the fauna with that of other portions of the United 

 States. 



The list is, of course, incomplete, yet it is doubtless a fair represen- 

 tation of the arachnid fauna, since the materials have come from 

 widely separated parts of the State. NortliAvestern Florida is, however 

 not represented. Various writers have questioned the propriety of 

 including subtropical Florida as a faunal part of the State. Similar 

 reasoning would throw out portions of many States; therefore I accept 

 political boundaries. The collections upon which this list is based were 

 made by the following persons, at the places noted : 



Mrs. Annie T. Slosson: Punta Gorda, Palm Beach, Biscayne Bay, 

 I.ake Worth. 



Mr. Philip Laurent: j\Iiami, Jacksonville, Enterprise. 



Mr. A. Dobbin: Altoona. 



Prof. C. M. Weed: Citrus county. 



Nathan Banks: Runnymede. 



Others: a number of Chernetidce have been taken by Mr. H. G. 

 Hubbard, and several others have sent me one or two species apiece. 



In this list are enumerated 211 spiders and G8 other arachnids, a 

 total of 279 species. The spiders are arranged in 21 families, 7 of them 

 being represented by but one species. The Epeiridae stands highest 

 in point of numbers, 45 species being included in it; the Theridiidse 

 follow with 44 species, and the Attidse with 38 species. The Lycosidce 

 have but 19 species and the Thomisidse the same. In many localities 

 these families equal or surpass the Attidse in number. The collection 

 is more brightly colored than one from the Northern States, and con- 

 tains manv more bizarre forms. Of the arachnids other than spiders. 




1904.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



the mites have 35 species and the Pseudoscorpions 16 species; there 

 are 6 daddy-long-legs. 



The affinity of the fauna is with that of the general coast fauna of 

 the Southern States; the southern tip shows relation to the Wee^t 

 Indies. Few species are abundant in specimens, but there are many 

 genera represented. The Pseudoscorpions are more abundant than 

 anywhere else in our country. All but about twenty species are in 

 the writer's collections; these few exceptions being chiefly species 

 recorded by Dr. Marx. 



Of noteworthy mention, one ma}^ refer to three species for the first 

 time recorded from our country: Theridium volatile Keys., previoush' 

 knowTi from northern South America; Cupiemiius sallei Keys., known 

 from IMexico and Central America, and Wala grenada Peck., recorded 

 from several West Indian localities. Several other spiders which have 

 a tropical distribution have previously been recorded from southern 

 Florida. Characteristic ones are Wagneria tauricorms, Epeira spini- 

 gera, E. undecimtuherculata, Leucauge argyra, Hcteropoda venatoria and 

 Opisthacanthus elatiis. The occurrence of a Gamasid mite of the cosmo- 

 tropical genus Megisthanus is also of much interest. Other rare and 

 curious forms are Gamasomorpha floridana, Didyna floridana, Kaira 

 alba and Phidippus pidcherimmus. Thirteen species are described as 

 new — eight spiders, three mites and two scorpions. 



In 1892-93 Dr. Einar Tonnberg visited Florida and made a small 

 collection of spiders, chiefly from Orange county. Dr. Albert Tullgren 

 has reported on this collection, describing eleven species as new. They 

 are as follows : 



Aysha orlandensis = Anyphcena gracilis Hentz. 



Lycosa angusta = Lycosa lenta Hentz. 



Lycosa alhopuncta = Lycosa riparia Hentz. 



Lycosa (Pirata) loennbergi=Sosippus floridanus Simon. • 



Lycosa {Pirata) transversolineata — unknown to me. 



Pardosa bilohata = Pardosa milvina Hentz. 



Pardosa longispinata — unknown to me. 



Oxyopes laminaius = Oxyopes scalaris Hentz. 



Phidippus clarconensis — Phidippus insoleiis Hentz. 



Phidippus oaklandensis = Phidippus cardinalis Hentz. 



Phidippus bilincatus — unknown to me, but I think it can scarcely be 

 new. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Order ARANEIDA. 



FILISTATID^. 

 Filistata hibernalis Hentz. 



A'arious specimens from Pimta Gorda, Jan.; Altoona, June; and 

 Miami, April. It is one of the most common species in buildings in 

 the South. 



CECOBIID^. 



Thalamia parietalis Hentz. 



A few specimens from Punta Gorda, Jan. 

 Thalamia floridana Banks. 



Two specimens from Lake Worth, the types, all that are known. 



SOYTODID^. 

 Loxosceles rufescens Lucas. 



Young specimens from houses at Runnymede. 



OONOPID^. 

 Gamasomorpha floridana Banks. 

 Two specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr. and April. 



DYSDERID^. 

 Ariadne bicolor Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 



PHOLCID^. 

 Pholcus phalangioides Fuess. 



One 3^oung specimen from Lake Worth. 



DRASSID^. 

 Micaria punctata Banks. 



A specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr., and others from Lake Worth; 

 it is the smallest of our species. 



Micaria agilis Banks. 



A few from Palm Beach, March. 

 Sergiolus variegata Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 

 Sergiolus cyaneoventris Simon. 



Several examples from Runnymede, Biscayne Bay, April, and 

 Enterprise, April (Laurent). A male from Punta Gorda, Febr. This 

 is more slender than the female, but similar in appearance. 



Cephalothorax bright yellowish-red; sternum pale yellowish, also 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



legs, but darker on tarsi; a white band across base of abdomen, beyond 



shining brown till the middle wdiite band, then iridescent black or 



greenish to tip; venter bluish-black, pale at base; spinnerets black. 



No spines under tibia I except at tip; one pair under metatarsus I; 



hind legs more numerously spined; mandibles small; sternum very 



long. 



Gnaphosa sericata Koch. 



Specimens from Biscayne Bay, and from Runny mede. 

 Silica bicolor Banks. 



A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., and Biscayne Bay, March and April. 

 It looks much like the next species. 

 Callilepis imbecilla Keyserling. 



From Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, April, and Palm Beach, ]\Iarch. 



Prosthesima depressa Emerton. 



One from Palm Beach. 

 Prosthesima ecclesiastica Hentz. 



From Lake Worth, and Punta Gorda, April. One specimen is 

 suffused \viih reddish throughout. 

 Prostliesima floridana Banks. 



One female from Punta Gorda, Febr., the type. 



CLUBIONIDiE. 

 Clubiona tibialis Emerton. 



One from Runnjmiede, Nov. 

 CMracanthium inclusa Hentz. 



Many specimens from Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; 

 Altoona, Jime; Enterprise, April (Laurent), and Miami, April. 

 Extremely common on herbage. 

 Chiracantbium albens Hentz. 



One male of this rather rare species from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Anypbasna velox Becker. 



Many examples from Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, Febr.; Biscayne 

 Bay, March and April; Palm Beach, March; Enterprise, April (Lau- 

 rent); and Miami (Laurent). It is abundant in south Florida, but 

 much rarer north. 

 Anyphaena fallens Hentz. 



From Punta Gorda, Jan. 

 Anyphaena gracilis Hentz. 



Immature example from Rimnymcde. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Anyphaena fragilis Banks. 



Type specimen from Jacksonville, April (Laurent). 

 Anyphaena floridana Banks. 



One from Lake Worth, the type. 

 Gayenna parvula Banks. 



One female from Rmmymede, Xov. ; sweeping heritage. 

 Thargalia crocata Hentz. 



From Punta Gorda, Febr. ; and Altoona, July. This is the true T. 

 crocata of Hentz, and is not his T. descriptus, a very different form. 

 Thargalia floridana Banks. 



Cephalothorax brownish-red, femora and patellse similar, but a little 

 paler, tibiae very pale, metatarsi and tarsi darker; sternum like cepha- 

 lothorax; mandibles a darker brownish-red; coxse pale; abdomen 

 brown above and below, sides almost black, without particular marks 

 except some faint transverse lines near the tip, partly clothed with 

 white hair. Cephalothorax rather slender ; A.j\LE. fully diameter apart, 

 plainly closer to larger A.S.E., P.M.E. one and one-half diameters 

 apart, about diameter from equal P.S.E., quadrangle of M.E. much 

 higher than broad, and a little broader behind than in front, a long 

 black bristle under each A.S.E., and one at outer corner. Legs slender, 

 one spine under middle of tibise I and II, two pairs under these meta- 

 tarsi. Abdomen scarcely longer than cephalothorax, truncate at base, 

 broadest behind middle; spinnerets not very ])rominent. 



Length 6 mm. 



One specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr. 



Thargalia longipalpis Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 



AGALENID^. 

 Agalena naevia Hentz. 



Common from Punta Gorda, April; Altoona, July; Citrus comity 

 (Weed) ; and Jacksonville, April. This spider is not nearly so abundant 

 in Florida as it is in the North. 

 Tegenaria derhami Scopoli. 



A feAv from Punta Gorda, March; probably introduced. 

 Hahnia sp. 



One young specimen from Punta Gorda, April. 



DICTYNID^. 

 Dictyna foliacea Hentz. 



From Punta Gorda, April. Species of this genus are not common 



in Florida. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Dictyna sublata Hentz. 



From Punta Gorcla, April, and Palm Beach, March. 



Dictyna floridana n. sp. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles reddish ; legs, sternum and spinnerets 

 j-ellowdsh ; abdomen gray, mottled with white. Legs and l3ody evenly 

 clothed with dark hairs. Head in male elevated, the ]\I.E. subeqiial, 

 they form a quadrangle broader than high. In the male there is a 

 strong tooth-like process on the outer base of each mandible. The 

 male palpi are peculiar; the patella is large, swollen, globular; the 

 palpal organ has a long slender process that, arising from the base, 

 extends up one side, across the tip of palpus and down the other side, 

 where its end is curved. This process has a groove on outer side, in 

 which rests the long style. At the base on the outer side is a bifid 

 black process, and two curved broad white hooks. Elsewhere the 

 species is of the usual structure. 



Length 2.4 mm. 



One pair from Lake Worth (Slosson). Readily known from all other 

 Dictynas by the globose patella of the male palpus. 



ULOBORID^. 



TJloborus plumipes Lucas. 



Several from Lake Worth, Biscayne Ba}', !March and April. 

 Dinopsis spinosus Marx. 



A few examples from Palm Beach. ]\Iarch, and ]\Iiami, April. 



THBRIDIID^]. 



Theridium studiosum Hentz. 



Quite common, from Runnymede, Xov. ; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Bis- 

 cayne Bay, March and April; Levy county, April (Laurent), and Lake 

 Worth. The most common Thcridium in Florida. 



Theridium volatile Keyserling. 



A cou})le from Runnymede, Nov. It was not jDreviously known from 

 the United States; but these specimens agree with the description and 

 figures of the South American form. 



Theridium floridensis Banks. 



Theridium Jura Keys. nee. Hentz. 



From Runnymede, Nov.. and Lake Worth, Fel^r. ; not known outside 

 of the State. 

 Theridium differens Emerton. 



One specimen from Punta Gorda. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Theridium inornatum Banks. 



One from Runnymede, Nov.; described from Louisiana. 

 Theridium globosum Hentz. 



Several from Runnymede, Nov., and Pimta Gorda, March and April; 

 some swept from herbage. 

 Theridium tepidariorum Koch. 



In houses at Runnymede, Nov. It has not been sent in by any of the 

 collectors, so cannot be common. 



Theridium pictipes Keyserling. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 



Theridium amputatum Keyserling. 



Described from the State. 



Theridium punctosparsum Emerton. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from Florida. 



Theridium immaculatum Emerton. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 

 Theridium sp. 



A small male from Punta Gorda, Febr., of an unknown species. 

 Theridula sphaerula Hentz. 



Several from Rmmymede, Nov. ; not as common as the next species. 

 Theridula quadripunctata Keyserling. 



Several from Runnymede, Nov.; Jacksonville, April; and Enter- 

 prise, April. 



Argyrodes globosum Keyserling. 



One specimen from Pmita Gorda, Febr. 

 Argyrodes trigonum Hentz. 



One from Runnymede, Nov.; swept from herbage. 

 Argyrodes nephilse Taczanowski. 



Several from Runnymede, Nov., from their own webs on the porch 

 of a house. 



Argyrodes floridana Banks. 



Two females from Punta Gorda, Febr. Readily known by the pecu- 

 har shape of the abdomen. 



Eomphea fictilium Hentz. 



One specimen from Runnymede, Nov.; swept from herbage. 

 Spintharus flavidus Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from the State. 

 Bellinda cancellata Keyserling. 



Recorded from Florida bv Dr. Marx. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Gaucelmus augustinus Keyserling. 



Described from the State. 



Tllesanis americana Emerton. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from Florida. 

 Euryopis argentea Emerton. 



Recorded b}^ Dr. Marx. 



Mysmena bulbifera Banks. 



From Runnymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March and April; and 

 Lake Worth. They make webs in low plants. 



Mysmena quadrimaculata Banks. 



Two specimens from Punt a Gorda, April. 



Lathrodectus mactans Koch. 



Common from Rmmymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan., April; Al- 

 toona, July; Palm Beach; Biscayne Bay, April; and Citrus county. 

 Abundant throughout the State. 



Dipoena crassiventris Keyserling. 



Two females from Punta Gorda, April. 



Lithyphantes fulvus Keyserling. 



Three specimens from Citrus county. 



Lithyphantes 7-macuIatus Keyserling. 



Several from Punta Gorda, Jan., Febr.; Palm Beach; and Biscayne 

 Bay, April. A handsome and characteristic Floridan spider. 



Asagena americana Emerton. 



One male from Palm Beach, March. 



Mimetus interfector Hentz. 



A few examples from Runnymede ; and Altoona, July. 



Histiagonia rostrata Emerton. 



Several specimens from Punta Gorda, March and April; Palm Beach; 

 and Biscayne Bay, April. 

 Ceratinella emertoni Cambridge. 



A few examples from Punta Gorda, ^larch and April; Palm Beach; 

 and Lake Worth. 

 Ceratinopsis similis Banks. 



Described from Runnymede, Nov.. under fallen leaves. 

 Grammonota maculata Banks. 



A few pairs from Runnymede, Nov.. among dead leaves. 

 Tmeticus tridentatus Emerton. 



One male from Palm Beach. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



LinypMa communis Hentz. 



Recorded from the State by Dr. ]\Iarx. 



Frontina cocoinea Hentz, 



Moderately common from Pmita Gorda, ]\Iarc]i and April; Palm 

 Beach, April; and Enterprise, April. 



Coleosoma floridana Banks. 



Coteosoma blanda Keyserling nee. Cambridge. 

 One male from Punta Gorda., April. 



Chrysso albomaculata Cambridge. 



Several specimens from Runnymede, Nov. ; and Lake Worth. 

 Bathyphantes micaria Emerton. 



A few from Palm Beach, ]\Iarch. 



Bathyphantes anglicanum Hentz. 



Common from Rimnymede, Nov.; Pmita Gorda, Jan.. Feb.; Bis- 

 cayne Bay, March and April ; and Palm Beach, April. A characteristic 

 Southern spider. 



Bathyphantes floridana Banks. 



A few from Runnymede, Nov.; and Punta Gorda, April; the former 

 among dead leaves. 

 Bathyphantes sp. 



One female of a l^rown, unmarked species from Enterprise, April 15. 



EPEIRID^. 

 Gastercantha cancriformis Linn(« 



Quite common from Punta Gorda, Jan.; Altoona, June; Citrus 

 county; and Miami, Febr. 

 Acrosoma rugosa Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. ^larx from Florida. 

 Acrosoma spinea Htntz. 



A few from Palm Beach, ]\Iarch; and Punta Gorda, April. 

 Mahadeva verrucosa Hentz. 



From Palm Beach, ]\Iarch. 

 Wagneria tauricornis Cambridge. 



Two specimens from Miami. 

 Gea heptagon Hentz. 



Several from Runn^miede; and Palm Beach, ]\Iareh. • 

 Plectana stellata Hentz. 



Rather common from Runnymede; and Altoona, July. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Plectana venusta Banks. 



A few examples from Piinta Gorda, Febr., April; and Biscayne Bay, 

 ]\Iarch. 

 Epeira domiciliorum Hentz. 



Quite common at Punta Gorda, ]\Iarch; and Altoona, June and 

 July. 

 Epeira trivittata Keyserling. 



Common from Punta Gorda, Jan., Febr.; Miami, ]\Iarch; Biscayne 

 Bay, April; Jacksonville, April (Laurent); and Enterprise, April. 

 Epeira strix Hentz. 



A few specimens from Punta Goi'da, Jan., Febr. 

 Epeira labyrintliea Hentz. 



Common from Runnymede; Lake Worth; Punta Gorda, Febr.; and 

 Altoona, July. 

 Epeira wittfeldae McCook. 



Quite common at Runnymede; also at Biscayne Bay. 

 Epeira thaddeus Hentz. 



Recorded from Florida by Dr. Marx. 

 Epeira pratensis Hentz. 



A few specimens from Palm Beach, March; and Altoona. 

 Epeira balaustina McCook. 



Several specimens from Pimta Gorda, Febr.; Altoona; Biscayne 

 Bay, April; Miami, March; and Enterprise, April. Young specimens 

 are often strikingly marked with yellow. 

 Epeira gigas Leach. 



A few specimens from Altoona and Punta Gorda. 

 Epeira septima Hentz. 



One from Punta Gorda, Febr.; a species nearly related to E. gigas, 

 but distinct by shape and sexual characters. 



Epeira globosa Keyserling. 



Quite common from Altoona, July; Biscayne Bay, March and April; 

 and Miami, April. 

 Epeira floridensis n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale 3-ellowish, Avithout markings, mandibles and 

 sternum same color, legs rather paler, faintly darker at tips of the tibise. 

 Abdomen covered with silvery irregular areas; two black dots, widely 

 separated, on the posterior part ; between them sometimes two gray 

 curved lines reaching toward the tip; sometimes the basal part of the 

 abdomen is covered with a large reddish-brown mark, darker in middle, 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



more reddish on the humps, and enclosing behind two ol^long yeUow 

 spots; venter silvery white. Similar in shape to E. scutulata. The 

 humps are rather more prominent and sharp-pointed ; the legs long and 

 slender; the epigynum shows a short median finger M'ith upcurved 

 end, each side is a dark circular cavity. 



Length 2.8 mm. 



Three specimens from Miami, in March (Laurent); readily distin- 

 guished from E. scutulata by its much smaller size, as well as different 

 markings. 



Epeira fuscovittata Keyserling. 

 Cyclosa thorelli McCook. 



Recorded by ]\IcCook from the State. 

 Epeira scutulata Hentz. 



Several specimens from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Epeira juniperina Emeiton. 



A number of examples from Altoona, iji July, 

 peira spinigera Cambridge. 



Two from Lake Wortli and Biscayne Bay; also recorded by McCook. 

 Epeira undecimtuberculata Keyserling. 



One male from Punta Gorda, in April; this and the preceding species 

 are representatives of the tropical fauna. 

 Kaira alba Hentz. 



One from Runnymede, Nov. ; beaten from shrul^s 

 Vixia infumata Hentz. 



One male from Punta Gorda, ]^Iarch and April. 

 Eustala prompta Hentz. 



A common species at Runnymede, Punta Gorda, Miami, Palm Beach, 

 Altoona, Jacksonville and Enterprise. Adults were taken in March, 

 April, Jiuie and July. It ^'aries extremely in markings, more so than 

 in northern localities 

 Acacesia foliata Hentz. 



From Biscayne Bay, ^Lirch and Ai^ril ; and Miami, April. 

 Mangora placida Hentz. 



A few specimens from Palm Beach; Enterprise, A])ril; and Miami, 

 March. 



Mangora gibberosa Hentz. 



Recorded from the State by Dr. ^larx. 

 Singa maculata Emerton. 



Recorded bv Dr. ]\larx from Florida. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Singa nigripes Keyserling. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx. 



Singa floridana Banks. 



A few from Punta Gorda, April. 



Singa modesta Banks. 



A few specimens from Lake Worth, and Punta Gorda, April. 



Singa pratensis Emerton. 



A few examples from Palm Beach, April ; and Biscayne Bay, in March 

 and April. 



Cyclosa bifuroa McCook. 



(Jne specimen from Citrus county (Weed). 



Carepalexis tuberculata Keyserling. 



One from Miami, Febr. ; recorded by Dr. Marx under the genus 

 Cyrtofhora. 

 Argiope argentata Fabriclus. 



A few specimens are from Altoona, July. 



Argiope aurantia Lucas. 



I have seen specimens at Runnymede, Nov. 



Argiope trifasciata Forsk. 



Epeira fasciata Hentz. 

 Argiope transversa Emerton. 1 



Several specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr. ; and Altoona, June and 

 July. 

 Nephila plumipes Koch. 



A few from Citrus county: and Punta Gorda, March; and Miami, 

 Febr. 

 Leucauge hortorum Hentz. 



Specimens from Punta Gorda; Jacksonville, April; and Enterprise, 

 April. 

 Leucauge argyra Walckenaer. 



•A few examples from Biscayne Bay, April. It is a tropical species. 

 Both this and L. hortorum were formerly placed in Argyroepeira, but 

 Mr. Cambridge has shown that this is the same as White's earlier genus, 

 Leucauge. 



Larinia directa Hentz. 



Several from Rimnymede, Nov.; oblique webs in grass. 



Theridiosoma argentea Keyserling. 



One female from Runnymede, Nov. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [Jan., 



TETRAGNATHID^. 

 Tetragnatha grallator Hentz. 



Several from Punta Gorda, in Jan.; Jacksonville, April; and Enter- 

 prise, April. 



Tetragnatha laboriosa Henta. 



Common, Punta Gorda; Lake Worth; and Enterprise, April (Lau- 

 rent). 

 Tetragnatha banksi McCook. 



A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov. ; swept from herbage. 

 Eugnatha pallida Banks. 



A few examples from Palm Beach, Runnymede Nov., and Enter- 

 prise, April. 



Eucta caudata Emerton. 



Not rare at Runnymede, Nov.; also from Punta Gorda, in Jan. 

 and Febr. ; beaten from grass. 

 Pachygnatha sp. 



Two young specimens from Punta Gorda, in April. 



THOMISID^. 

 Xysticus cunotator Thorell. 



A few specimens from Runnymede. 

 Xysticus floridanus Banks. 



One pair from Punta Gorda, ]\Iarch and April. 

 Coriarachne versicolor Keyserling. 



From Runnymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March, April; and Punta 

 Gorda, April. 

 Coriarachne floridana Banks. 



Only the type from Punta Gorda, Febr. 

 Oxyptila floridensis Banks. 



One specimen from Punta Gorda, March. 

 Synaema bicolor Keysserling. 



Recorded from the State by Dr. Marx. 

 Runcinia aleatoria Hentz. 



A few from Altoona, July, and Jacksonville, April. 

 Misumena spinosa Keyserling. 



Several specimens from Runnymede and Punta Gorda, April 

 Misumena rosea Keyserling. 



Very common, from Runnymede; Altoona, July; Punta Gorda; 

 Palm Beach; Biscayne Bay, April; and Enterprise, April. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Misumena oblonga Keyserling. 

 A few specimens from Piinta Gorda, Jan. 



Misumena bellula Banks. 



A few examples from Punt a Gorda, Fcbr., April. 

 Misumena viridans Banks. 



A few specimens from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Tibellus duttoni Hentz. 



A few from Runnymede and Enterprise. 

 Tmarus floridensis Keyserling. 



Not rare at Runnymede, in long moss; also Enterprise and Miami, 

 April. 



Tmarus caudatus Hentz. 

 A few specimens from Palm Beach, March. 



Tmarus grissus Keyserling. 

 Recorded by Keyserling from the State. 



Philodromus vulgaris Hentz. 

 Not rare, from Rmmymede; and Altoona, July. 



Philodromus ornatus Banks. 



Several from Punta Gorda, Feb., April; and Enterprise, April. 



Philodromus floridensis n. sp. 



Head pale grayish, behind with a white V-mark; sides of cephalo- 

 thorax broadly dark brown, leaving a large median pale area; legs 

 brownish-yellow; darker at tips of femora, and near middle of femora 

 II and III; sternum white; abdomen pale brownish-yellow with a 

 dark brown spear-mark in middle of anterior part, margined on its 

 posterior sides by a narrow white line, and posterior part of abdomen 

 covered by a large dark brown spot with oblique anterior margins and 

 containing two rows of indistinct pale dots each side ; venter pale, with 

 three pale brown stripes. Second pair of legs plainly longer than 

 the first. Tibia I with two pairs of spines below, metatarsus I also 

 with two pairs. P.S.E. larger than the others, which are subequal; 

 A.M.E. four diameters apart, two diameters from A.S.E., latter two 

 diameters from P.M.E., and these three diameters from the P.S.E. 

 Cephalothorax broad and flat; abdomen truncate at base, broadest 

 behind the middle. 



Length 4 mm. 



One female from Lake Worth. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



SPARASSID^. 

 Selenops aissa Walckenaer. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx from southern Florida. 



Heteropoda venatoria Linn^. 



Taken at Runnymede; Jacksonville; Altoona, June, and Miami. 



LYCOSID^. 



Lycosa carolinensis Walckenaer. 

 L. carolinensis Hentz. 



One specimen from Punta Gorda, Febr. 



Lycosa helluo Walckenaer. 



L. babingtoni Blackwall. 



A few from Punta Gorda, April; they do not differ from northern 

 specimens. 

 Lycosa riparia Hentz. 



Common from Pimta Gorda, April; Palm Beach; and Enterprise, 

 April (Laurent). 

 Lycosa lenta Hentz. 



Several specimens from Altoona, July; and Runnymede. Nov.; L. 

 ruricola Hentz is, I think, the male of L. lenta. 

 Lycosa floridana Banks. 



A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., the types. 

 Lycosa erratica Hentz. 



Taken at Enterprise, April (Laurent). 



Lycosa posticata n. sp. 



Cephalothorax red-brown; a narrow median pale stripe from eyes 

 to tip, and a pale stripe on each side ; a pale spot each side of clypeus ; 

 mandibles dark red-brown ; leg IV wholly pale yellow ; other legs heav- 

 ily mottled with brown; the femora beneath almost wholly dark, above 

 with two pale bands; patella pale, -v^dth a middle dark band; tibia 

 dark, with pale band at base and one on middle ; metatarsi dark, tarsi 

 pale. Stenurm rather reddish, uniform, Coxse and maxillae yellowish. 

 Abdomen black, with a pale stripe each side on base reaching halfway 

 back, and thence broken into spots. Venter gray. 



Length 10 mm. 



Two specimens from Miami (Laurent). Readily distinguished from 

 all other Lycosas known to me by the pale hind legs, in contrast with 

 the darker other pairs. 

 Lycosa punctulata Hentz. 



Several from Punta Gorda, April. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLADELrHIA. 135 



Lycosa rabida Walckenaer. 

 L. scutulata Hentz. 



Many specimens from Altoona, in June. 

 Lycosa hentzi n. sp. 



Cephalothorax pale brownish-yellow; eyes on black band; a brown 

 stripe extending back from each posterior eye, its upper edge definite, 

 its lower edge fading off into the paler sides, between these is a brighter 

 yellow streak, extending forward between the eyes, but much nar- 

 rower. ]\Iandibles scarcety darker than cephalothorax; sternum pale; 

 abdomen pale, the upper sides streaked and spotted with brown, indi- 

 cating toward middle two brown streaks, leaving a broader yellowish 

 median stripe, sometimes broken up behind by brown chevi'ons; 

 venter pale, unmarked; legs pale, the tarsi more red-brown. First 

 eye-row practically straight, as long as second row, its eyes subequal ; 

 second and third rows about equal in size, and the third row scarcely 

 broader than the second. Head rather high, and square in front; 

 abdomen rather longer than usual, tapering behind. Legs quite 

 slender; three pairs of spines under tibia? I and II, two pairs under 

 these metatarsi; metatarsi and tarsi weakly scopulate. Tarsus I of 

 male not curved. 



Length 12 mm. 



Several specimens from Altoona, July; also from Covington, Louisi- 

 ana. It looks like L. rabida, except for pale median stripe on abdo- 

 men, and pale anterior legs of male. 

 Trochosa cinerea Fabricius. 



A few from Lake Worth, Palm Beach, March, and Altoona, July. 

 Trochosa floridana Banks. 



Several from Punt a Gorda, April; and Palm Beach, ^larch. 

 Sosippus floridanus Simon. 



Not rare at Runnymede; and Altoona, July. 



AUocosa funerea Hentz. 



Not rare, Punta Gorda, March; Biscayne Bay, March; and Palm 

 Beach, !March. 



Fardosa milvina Hentz. 



Quite common, Punta Gorda, April; Runnymede, Nov. 



Pardosa saxatilis Hentz. 



One specimen from Lake Worth, Febr. 



Pardosa venustulata Hentz. 



One from Biscayne Bay, April. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY V_)F [Jan., 



Pardosa minima Keyserling. 



One male from Lake Worth. Febr., agrees with northern examples. 



Pardosa floridana n. sp. 



Cephalothorax ^'•ellowish, head black, a broad brown stripe from 

 each posterior eye to the hind margin, and the lateral margins nar- 

 rowly brown. The pale median area is l^roadest in front, and there 

 indents the black head with a narrow projection each side. Abdo- 

 men black, with numerous small white dots; a basal spear-mark, and 

 four pairs of geminate patches follow the spear-mark, each is separated 

 by a narrow transverse line; venter yellow, with a few black spots in 

 three lines; sternum yellow, with a median black stripe forked on 

 anterior half, and three black dots each side; coxib yellow, with black 

 marks above; clypeus yellow, with two black spots; mandibles yel- 

 lowish, with a black line in front. Legs yellow, more reddish toward 

 tip, faintly marked with black on femora and base, middle and tip of 

 tibia and metatarsus. 



Length 6 mm. 



One female from Enterprise, April 22. A paler specimen, with legs 

 scarcely marked, but with a dark sternum, comes from Punta Gorda, 

 Febr. 



PISAURID^ 

 Bolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz. 



One specimen from Lake Worth. 

 Dolomedes albineus Hentz. 



One female from Altoona, July. It is easily recognized l)y the 

 j^ellow ventral stripe. The head is much elevated in this species. 

 I have a spider from Punta Gorda which agrees with Micromata pini- 

 cola Hentz; it is immature, and, I think, the young of D. albineus. 

 Pisaurina undata Hentz. 



Several sjjecimens from Punta Gorda. April. 

 Maypacius floridanus Simon. 



Described from the State; I have not seen it. 



Thanatidius dubius Hentz. 



A young specimen from Punta Gorda, April; it is adult in late 

 summer. 



CTENID^. 



Cupiennius Sallei Keyserling. 



One specimen from Lake Worth. This is the first time this Mexican 

 spider has- been recorded from the United States. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



OXYOPID^. 



Peucetia viridans Hentz. 



Common, Rmmymede; Jacksonville; Biscayne Ba}', April; and 

 Altoona, Jmie and July. Usually on large shrubs. 

 Oxyopes salticus Hentz. 



A few from Jacksonville, April, and Enterprise, April. 

 Oxyopes scalaris Hentz. 



Several from Punta Gorda, April, and Altoona, July. 

 Hamalatiwa grisea Keyserling. 



Taken at Jacksonville, April; Altoona, Jime and July; Enterprise, 

 April; and Runny mede. 



Phidippus cardinalis Hentz. 



Several from Biscayne Bay, in ]\Iarch, and Punta Gorda and Enter- 

 prise, A])ril. 



Phidippus variegatus Lucas. 

 Phidippus otiosus Hentz. 



Two specimens from Levy county, April (Ijaurent). 



Phidippus rufus Hentz. 



From Runnymede, Nov., and Punta Gorda, Febr., April. 

 Phidippus pulcherrimus Keyserling. 



One female from Biscayne Bay, in March. I have not seen it before, 

 and evidently is quite rare. 

 Phidippus miniatus Peckham. 



Many specimens from l^unta Gorda, Jan. ; Citrus county (Weed) ; 

 Jacksonville, May; Enterprise, April; and Levy county, April (Lau- 

 rent). 

 Phidippus audax Hentz. 



Attus tripunctalus Hentz. 



A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov., and IMiami, April. 

 Phidippus insolens Hentz. 



Recorded by Dr. Marx in his Catalogue as from the State. 

 Philaeus militaris Hentz. 



A few from Palm Beach, March. 

 Philaeus rimator Walckenaer. 



Recorded from Florida b}" Prof. Peckham. 

 Dendryphantes octavus Hentz. 



Common from Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Jackson- 

 ville, April; Fernandina, April (Laurent), and Enterprise, April. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



Dendryphantes floridanus n. sp. 



Cephalothorax reddish; eyes on black spots; mandibles reddish- 

 brown; sternum pale 3^ellowish; legs similar, first pair rather more 

 reddish-brown, the patella and tibia tipped with a dark spot on inner 

 side; abdomen pale yellowish, with some small scattered brown spots, 

 behind with a larger brown spot, pointed in front (sometimes blunt), 

 indented each side, and with a brown patch each side in front of it. 

 This spot is sometimes broken up into smaller spots. Venter pale, 

 spinnerets a little darker. Male is similar, but more reddish-brown. 

 Tibise I and II have three pairs of spines beneath, two pairs under 

 these metatarsi; hind tibise with many spines, especially at tip. Tibia 

 of male palpus has a short tooth on outer side at tip. Similar in 

 structure to Z). octavus Hentz. 



Length , 9 , 7 to 8 mm. ; c?, 5 mm. 



Several examples from Altoona, July. 

 Thiodina retarius Hentz. 



Many specimens from Punta Gorda, April; Biscayne Bay, April; 

 Enterprise, April; ]\Iiami, April, and Lake Worth, Febr. A very 

 common species in the South. 



Plexippus paykuUi Aud. and Sav. 



Specimens from Punta Gorda, March and April; Palm Beach, March ; 

 Biscayne Bay, April; Runnymede, Nov.; .Altoona, May and June; 

 Miami, April. A very common spider in Florida. 



Tapinattus melanognathus Lucas. 



A pair from Rmmymede, Nov., and others from Ft. Drum. 



Wala palmar um Hentz. 



Specimens from Pimta Gorda, Palm Beach, Biscayne Bay and Enter- 

 prise, in Jan. and April. 

 Wala grenada Peckliam. 



A few specimens from ]\Iiami, April. Not before recorded from the 

 United States. 



Wala mitratus Hentz. 



A few examples from Palm Beach, March; and Biscayne Bay. ]\Iarch. 



Icius wickhami Peckham. 

 Icius fioridana Banks. 



A few from Palm Beach, ]\larch; and Punta Gorda. April. 



Icius pleuralis Banks. 



One female from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Icius elegans Hentz. 



Two from Punta Gorda, in Jan. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Fuentes lineata Koch. 



One from Rimnymede, Nov. 



Marpissa undata De Geer. 



Attus familiaris Hentz. 



From Citrus county (Weed); and Punta Gorda, Jan., April. 



Hyctia pikei Peckham. 



From Runn3aTiede, Nov.; Palm Beach, March; and Lake Worth, 

 Febr. Occurs on marsh grass. 

 Maevia vittata Hentz. 



Several examples from Runnymede, Nov., and Enterprise, Aj^iil 

 (Laurent). 

 Metacyrba taeniola Hentz. 



Rather common; Rmmymede, Nov.; Biscayne Bay, March; Punta 

 Gorda, Febr. ; and Lake Worth. 

 Prostheclina aurata Hentz. 



Not uncommon; Punta Gorda, April; and Biscayne Bay, April. 

 Pellenes cristatum Hentz. 



From Punta Gorda, a few specimens, 



Pellenes peregrinum Peckham. 



One male from Punta Gorda, April. 



Pellenes viridipes Hentz. 



A few examples from Palm Beach, in March, and Biscayne Bay 

 « 

 Pellenes brunneus Peck. 



Described from Florida. 



Habrocestum pulex Hentz. 



A few from Punta Gorda, in Febr. 



Zygoballus sexpunctatus Hentz. 



Several from Runnymede, Nov.; Palm Beach, April; Punta Gorda, 

 April, and Jacksonville, April. 



Zygoballus parvus Hentz. 



A few from Biscayne Bay, March. 



Zygoballus bettina Peckham. 



One from Enterprise, April. 



Homalattus cyaneus Hentz. 

 A few from Palm Beach, March and April. 



Salticus albocinctus Koch. 

 From Biscayne Bay, March; and Punta Gorda, April. 




140 PROCEIODIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Synemosyna formica Hentz. 



Ono from Runny mede, Nov. 

 Lyssomanes viridis Hentz. 



From Runn3-mede; Punta Gorda, April; Palm Beach, March; Bis- 

 cayne Bay, AjDril; and Altoona, Jnh'. Not uncommon sweeping. 



Order PHALANGIDA. 

 Mesosoma niger Say. 



Common at Punta Gorda, in Feb., March and April. 



Liobunum vittatum Say. 



From Punta Gorda, Febr. and April; Palm] Beach, April; and Bis- 

 cayne Bay, April. 



Liobunum bicolor Wood. 



A few from Rimnymcde, Nov., and Punta Gorda, Febr. 



Liobunum formosum Wood. 



A few from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Cynorta ornata Say. 



Common; Runnymede, Nov.; Punta Gorda, Jan.; Biscayne Bay, 

 March; and Lake Worth. 

 Scotolemon spinigera Pack. 



A couple of specimens from Biscayne Bay. 



Order PSEUDOSCORPIONiri,\. 

 Chelifer floridanus Banks. 



One specimen from Biscayne Bay (E. A. Schwarz). 

 Chelifer biseriatum Banks. 



Many specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr. ; and from Lake Poinsett 

 (Hubbard). 



Chelifer muricatus Say. 



A'^arious examples from Punta Gorda, Jan.; also St. Lucie and Sand 

 Point (Hubbard), and Citrus county (Weed). 

 Chelanops oblongus Say 



Many specimens from Lake Worth; Biscayne Bay, March; and 

 Punta Gorda, Febr., March and April. 

 Chelanops latus Banks. 



A few from Runnymede, Nov. ; and Lake Worth. 

 Chelanops floridse Balzan. 



A few from Punta Gorda, Febr., IMarch and April; and Biscayne Bay, 

 April. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Chelanops dentatus Banks. 



One specimen from Florida, without more definite locality (Hub- 

 bard). 

 Chelanops latimanus Banks. 



One specimen from Punta'Gorda. 



Chelanops affinis Banks. 



The type is from Crescent City, from a burrow of the gopher (Hub- 

 bard). 



Chelanops tumidus Banks. 



Several specimens from under logs on the sea beach at Indian River 

 Inlet, April (Hubbard). 



Garypus floridensis!Banks. 



Collected under driftw^ood on ocean beach near St. Lucie river, April, 

 by the late H. G. Hubbard; Miami, March (Laurent). 



Obisium parvulum Banks. 



One specimen from Florida, without more definite locality (Hub- 

 bard). 



Atemnus elongatus Banks. 

 A . floridanus Tullgren. 



Specimens from Lake Worth; Biscayne Bay, April; Punta Gorda, 

 Febr. and April. Mr. Hubbard took it at St. Lucie river. Sand Point 

 and Enterprise. 



Olpium obscurum Banks. 



One from Runnymede, one from Punta Gorda and several from Palm 

 Beach, April. 



Chthonius pennsylvanicus Hagen. 



A few^ specimens from Punta Gorda, Febr. ; one from Lake Poinsett 

 (Hubbard). 



Chthonius spinosus Banks. 



Several from Citrus county. (Weed). 



Order SCORPIONIDA. 

 Centrums gracilis Gervais 



From Citrus county (Weed) ; Miami. April ; and Punta Gorda. Fairly 

 common. 



Centrurus carolinianus Beauvois. 



From Citrus county (Weed) and Miami, March. The most common 

 scorpion in the State. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Centrurus hentzi n. sp. 



This is similar in most points to the preceding species, and may be 

 but a variety of it, yet as the color differences are so constant I give it 

 a separate name. The legs are marm orate with blackish; on the 

 pedipalpi the tip of femur is blackish, the apical half of the tibia is 

 marked with black, and also the outer side of the hand. The tail is 

 marked with black below, leaving elongate pale spots, the basal joint 

 only slightly marked. The stripes on the dorsum are very broad, leav- 

 ing only a narrow white line between them. There is no median pale 

 spot on anterior margin, which is seen in C. carolinianus. 



Specimens from Runnymede, Oct., and Fort Reed. 

 Centrurus margaritatus Gervais. 



From Biscayue Bay, several specimens, mostly immature. 



Isometrus maculatus De Geer. 



Dr. Marx had this species from Key West. 

 Tityus floridanus n. sp. 



Dark red-brown; cephalothorax strongly granulate in fj-ont; an 

 interrupted median ridge on the abdomen, and each segment with a 

 curved middle row of granules each side, and the posterior margin 

 granulate. Last segment of abdomen with the submedian ridges reach- 

 ing nearly to base, the side ridges not half so far; below with four 

 ridges, the side ones the longer. Tail with ten ridges on the first seg- 

 ment, eight on two, three and four ; fifth segment with a median ridge 

 below, as also on the last; a few lateral granules on these segments. 

 Sting long and curved, the tooth beneath acute, but short. Pedipalpi 

 long and slender; the femur subparallel, angular, with six ridges, a 

 median one on inner side; tibia with two submedian ridges on inner 

 side, a basal granule larger than others; tibia but slightly swollen. 

 Hand swollen on base inside, not plainly angulate ; the fingers longer 

 than the hand. 



Length 70 mm. 



One male specimen from Key West. It has much resemblance to 

 Centrurus gracilis, but the palpi are more slender and the segments 

 of the tail are heavier. 

 Diplocentrus lesueurii Gervais. 



(Jne from Key West; the type was probably from Florida. 

 Opisthacanthus elatus Gervais. 



Dr. Marx distributed specimens as coming from Southern Florida. 



Order PHRYNIDA. 

 Admetus fuscimanus Koch. 



From Runnymede, Nov.; and Punta Gorda, Febr. and April. 




li)!)4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 143 



Order THELYPHONIDA. 

 Mastigoproctus giganteus Lucas. 



From Runnymede, Punta Gorda, Jan.; and Altoona, July. 



Order SOLPUGIDA. 

 Ammotrecha cubae Lucas. 



Specimens from "southern Florida/' without further locality. 



Order ACARINA. 



TROMBIDIDiE. 

 Trombidium sericeum Say. 



A few from Punta Gorda, in April. 

 Ottonia trombidioides Banks. 



Several from Punta Gorda, April. 

 Ottonia granulosa Banks. 



Several from Pvuita Gorda, April. 



RHYNOHOLOPHID^. 

 Rhyncholoplius maculatus Banks. 



Several from Punta Gorda, Febr., April; Palm Beach. 

 Rhyncholophus longipes Banks. 



From Palm Beach, March. 

 Rhyncholopbus floridanus Banks. 



Specimens from Punta Gorda, April. 



Rhyncholophus simplex Banks. 



Several from Punta Gorda, April; and Palm Beach, April. 

 Rhyncholophus punctatus n. sp. 



Dull bluish gray, with a number of scattered small black spots above ; 

 legs paler. Body sparsely clothed with short erect hair, all of one 

 kind. Body elliptical, rather broader before third legs. Palpi short 

 femora slightly swollen, penultimate joint ends in a single claw; the 

 thumb but little swollen, and projecting beyond the claw, clotlied with 

 short hair. Legs slender, with short erect hair; leg I nearly as long 

 as body, last joint swollen, two-thirds as long as penultimate joint: 

 leg IV about as long as leg I, but the tarsus is not so much swollen 

 and is barely more than one-half as long as penultimate joint. 



Length 1 mm. 



Several specimens from Palm Beach, in Aiiril. 

 Smaris australis Banks. 



One from Punta Gorda, April, the type. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ER YTHR^ID^ . 

 Actineda agilis Banks. 



From Punta Gorda, in March and April. 

 Erythraeus sp. 



One specimen from Palm Beach of an unknown species. 



BDELLID^. 

 Bdella cardinalis Banks. 



Several from Punta Gorda, Febr., April; and Palm Beach, March. 



EUPODID^. 

 Tydeus gloveri Ashmead. 



Not luicommon on oranges; it preys on the scale insects, but is not 

 sufficiently numerous to do any great good. 



TETRANYOHID^. 

 Tetranychus mytilaspidis Riley. 



This bristly species occurs throughout the State on orange leaves. 

 Tetranychus sexmaculatus Riley. 



This species is also common in Florida on oranges. 



Tetranychus tumidus Banks. 



Taken at Eustis, on the leaves of the water-hyacinth (AVebber). 

 Tetranychus bimaculatus Harvey. 



Specimens from Punta Gorda, Key Largo and Eustis, on egg-plant 

 and watermelon. 



Stigmaeus floridanus Banks. 



Described from Florida, living in colonies upon the imbricated leaves 

 of the pineapple. 



IXODID^. 

 BoopMlus annulatus Say. 



The Texas cattle tick has been recorded from Florida. 

 Ixodes scapularis Say. 



A few from Lake Worth; Palm Beach, March; Punta Tiorda, April; 

 and Enterprise, April. 

 Dermacentor americanus Linn. 



One from Miami, ALarch (Laurent). 

 Amblyomma tuberculata Marx. 



Described from Florida, as parasitic on the ''gopher." I have 

 several specimens from Enterprise. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



GAMASID^. 

 Macrocheles sp. 



Two specimens of a large dark species from Pimta Gorda, April. 



Gamasus sp. 



Various specimens of a species much like G. coleoptratus, and possibly 

 identical, from Punta Gorda. 



Lselaps sp. 



A few specimens from Biscayne Bay, April. 



Uropoda sp. 



Specimens from Punta Gorda, April, and Biscayne Bay; probably 

 representing more than one species. 



Megisthanus floridauus n. sp. 



Reddish-brown. Body egg-shaped; above smooth and shining, a 

 few short hairs in front, and four longer ones on the anterior margin. 

 Mandibles large, acute at tip. Leg I slender, about as long as wddth 

 of body, with many short hairs ; legs II and III short and stout, the 

 femur tuberculate on one edge, each tubercle tipped by a stout bristle, 

 long hairs near tip of tibia III, leg IV heavy, but longer than others, 

 femora in front tuberculate and with bristles, behind with three rather 

 blunt teeth, long hairs near tip of tibia; all legs, except I, end in a 

 sucker, but apparently without claws. 



Length 2.8 mm. 



One specimen from Enterprise. This is the first record of this 

 cosmotropical genus in the United States. It is a remarkable geiuis, 

 readily known by the small size of the claws, the teeth on hind femora, 

 and position of male genital orifice. 



ORIBATID^. 

 Galumna emarginata Banks. 



Appears to be conmion at Punta Gorda, April, and Lake AVorth. 



Eremaeus floridanus n. sp. 



Pale yellowish-brown; al^domen smooth, polished, venter the same. 

 Abdomen but little longer than broad, moderately high, no suture 

 between it and so-called tectal plate; inferior and superior bristles 

 very long and straight; set® of moderate length, clavate; legs not very 

 long, with many short hairs, all inserted on sides of body; coxal plate 

 of two anterior pairs shows a line each side not reaching the middle, 

 suture between third and fourth coxae not reaching the middle ; genital 

 opening small, fully twice its diameter in front of the nuich larger anal 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



opening. In general appearance it looks like Galmnno. affitiis, but 

 there is no trace of wings. 



Length .6 mm. 



One specimen from Punta Gorda, April. 



I use the genus Ercmccus for Oppia and Orihatnla of Berlese. 



Liacarus concolor Banks. 



Several specimens from Punta Gorda, April, This species has about 

 20 or 24 short hairs on dorsum of abdomen, arranged in about 4 longi- 

 tudinal rows. There is a short oblique ridge above the posterior cox£e 

 extending up to cephalothorax. 



Oribata floridana Banks. 



A few specimens, the types, from Punta Gorda; it was described 

 under the genus Bclha. The type of this genus is miknown, but it 

 must be very similar to the type of Damceus, which is congeneric 

 with the type of Oribata. In place of the Oribota of authors I use 

 the next name, Galumna. Notaspis, by the process of elimination, 

 rests upon that genus for which Oudemans has proposed the name 

 of Kochia. I deplore greatly the transference of the name Oribata, 

 but it is a perfectlj^ plain case; and since several European authors 

 have adopted it, I accept it for the sake of uniformity. 



Neoliodes concentricus Say. '• 



A few specimens from Runnymede, Nov., and Enterprise. 



Neoliodes floridensis Banks. 



A number of examples from Palm Beach, and Lake Worth, in March. 



TYROGLYPHID^. 

 Tyroglyphus sp. 



I have seen a species taken by Hubbard among scale insects on the 

 orange trees. It is, I think, undescribed. 



ERIOPHYIDiE. 

 Iriophyes oleiovorus Ashmead. 



The rust mite of the orange occurs commonly in most sections of 

 Elorida. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Explanation of Plates VII and VIII. 



Plate VII, Fig. 1. — Pardosa flor'idanus, epigynum. 

 Fig. 2. — Dendryphantes floridensis, palpus. 

 Fig. 3. — Sergiolus cyaniventris, palpus. 

 Fig. 4. — Sergiolus cyaniventris, palpus. 

 Fig. 5. — Epeira floridensis, epigynum. 

 Fig. 6. — Dendryphantes floridensis, epigynum. 

 Fig. 7. — Tityus floridanus, peclipalp. 

 Fig. 8. — Tityus floridanus, sting. 

 Fig. 9. — Philodromus floridensis, epigynum. 

 Fig. 10. — Dictyna floridana, palpus and epigynum. 

 Fig. 11. — Thargalia floridana, epigynum. 

 Fig. 12. — Mysmena bulbifera, palpus. 

 Fig. 13. — Mysmena bulbifera, palpus. 



Plate VIII, Fig. 14. — Sergiolus cyaniventris. 

 Fig. 15. — Pardosa floridanus. 

 Fig. 16. — Lycosa hentzi, palpus. 

 Fig. 17. — Lycosa hentzi, epigynum. 

 Fig. 18. — Eremceus floridanus. 

 Fig. 19. — Anyphcena velox, palpus. 

 Fig. 20. — Megisthanus floridanus. 

 Fig. 21. — Pliilodroinus floridensis. 




1^8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



OBSERVATIONS ON TUPAIA, WITH REFLECTIONS ON THE ORIGIN OF 



PRIMATES. 



BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



According to many anatomists, "the Twpaice possess a large 

 coeciim."^ It appears Avorthy of mention, therefore, that on opening 

 recently the abdominal cavity of a specimen of Tupaia ferruginca 

 from Borneo not a trace of a coecum was to be seen (PI. IX, fig. 1), 

 confirming the statement recently made by the writer^ that the coecum 

 was not invariably present in that Insectivore, nor was it present 

 in a recently examined specimen of T. pictum. It may be stated, 

 in a general way at least, that in mammals in Avhicli the stomach is 

 large the coecum is small, and vice versa. This inverse relation of 

 the stomach and coecum as regards size appears to be conditioned by 

 the fact that in cases where gastric action is limited by the small size 

 of the stomach, the lack of digestion is made up by the digestive action 

 that goes on in the coecum. It is not to be supposed, howeA'er, that 

 the coeciun secretes a digestive juice like that of the stomach, but 

 rather that the proteid elements of the food and the acids developed 

 from the latter by fermentation act upon the residue of the food in 

 the coecum like the pepsin and hydrochloric acids of the gastric juice. 



In cases, therefore, in which the stomach is large, as in that of the 

 Tupaia examined, it might be expected that the coecum would l^e found 

 to be small, or even altogether absent". As a matter of fact, in the 

 specimen of Tupaia dissected the stomach was relatively large, meas- 

 uring in its long diameter 5 cent. (2 inches), the animal itself, from the 

 vertex to the root of the tail, measuring only 20 cent. (S inches). 



The stomach was found disteraded to its utmost capacity, presenting 

 an almost globular form, and filled with what ay)peared to be princi- 

 pally the remains of vegetal^lc food, though some remains of insects 

 were present. As gastric digestion appeared to be largely accom- 

 plished by the stomach in the case (",f the Tupaia examined, the 

 entire absence of a ca'cum becomes, after what has just been said, 

 intelligible. The intestine, measuring 71.2 cent. (28.5 inches), ex- 

 hibited throughout a luiiform diameter, and was loosely suspended 

 from the duodenum to the rectum by a continuous fold of peritoneum. 



1 Huxley, Anat. of Vertebrated Animals, 1872, p. 383; Carus, Zoologie, 1868- 

 75, S. 89. 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phlla., 1902, p. 249. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 



The liver was divided into four lobes, the gall bladder lying as if 

 in a hole in the cystic fissure.^ The common bile duct passed into the 

 intestine .5 cent, (one-fifth of an inch) from the pylorus, that of the 

 pancreas about an equal distance from the orifice of the bile duct. 



As Tupaia is usually regarded as being in its affinities the most 

 lemurine of the Insectivora, and Tarsius the most insectivoroiis 

 of the lemurs, the alimentary canal of Tarsius spectrum recently 

 dissected by the author (PI. IX, fig. 2) is submitted for comparison 

 with that of Tupaia. It will be observed that in Tarsiiis a distinct 

 coecum is present, though not large, and that the stomach is very 

 small. 



In previous communications made to the Academy, the author called 

 attention to the affinities of Chiromys and the Rodentia,* Galeopithecus 

 and the Chiroptera.^ If the structure of these animals has been cor- 

 rectly interpreted, and it be further admitted that Tarsius stands in 

 a similar relation to the Insectivora, and Loris (Stenops) to the Simiae, 

 the phylum of these various orders would be related to each other 

 somewhat as follows : 



Homo 



Gorilla 



Chimpanzee Pithecanthropus 



Gibbon 



Orang 



CatarrhinsE 



Arctopitheca 



Platyrrhinae 



Rodentia Chiroptera 



.1 I 



Chiromys Galeopithecus Loris 



Insectivora 

 Tarsius 



Lemuravidse 



Adapidse 

 Hyopsodinje 



' Hunter, Essays and Observations on Nat. History, edited by Owen. 

 ^Proc. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900. 

 s Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail.^ 



If speculation be fui'ther indulged in as regards the manner in which 

 the descendants of cretaceous or eocene lemurs could be transformed 

 into Platyrrhine monkeys like those living at the present day, it is 

 readily seen, as suggested by Leidy,® ''that but little change would be 

 necessary to evolve from the jaw and teeth of Nothardus that of a 

 modern monkey. The same condition which would lead to the sup- 

 pression of a first premolar in continuance would reduce the fangs of 

 the other premolars to a single one. This change with a concomitant 

 shortening and increase of depth of the jaw, would give the character 

 of a living Cebus. A further reduction of a single premolar would give 

 rise to the condition of the jaw in the Old World apes and man." In 

 the imion of the rami of the jaw at the symphysis, in the small size of 

 the condyle, in the number of the incisors, canines and true molars, 

 nearly alike in their constitution and in their crowded condition, the 

 lower jaw of Nothardus resembles most strikingly that of a Platyi'rhine 

 monkey. Like Leidy, both Cope and Marsh regarded the Platyrrhine 

 monkeys, on the one hand as the descendants of extinct lemurs, and, 

 on the other, as the ancestors of the Catarrhinse. 



Thus Cope,^ basing his \dew upon the structure of Tomitherium, 

 offered as a possible phylum the following: 



Homo 



I 

 Sitniidae 



1 

 Cebus 



I 

 Hapale 



I 

 Lemur 



Tomitherium 



though later, as we shall see presently, he modified the above view^ 

 somewhat, finally regarding man and the anthropoids as having 

 probably descended directly from extinct lemurs hke Anaptomorphus. 

 By similar reasoning from the study of closely affiliated, if not identical, 

 Lemuroid genera: Limnotherium (Tomitherium), Antiacodon (Anapto- 

 morphus), Marsh,® in referring to the origin of the Primates, was 

 led to the conclusion that "we may justly claim America for the birth- 

 place of the order." 

 Why the Old World apes, when difterentiated, did not come to the 



s Extinct Vertebrate Fauna, 1873, p. 90, 



' Mammalia Educabilia, Am. Phil. Soc, 1873. 



.*' Lemuroidea, etc., American Naturalist, 1885, p. 467. 



^ Vertebrate Life in America, 1877, p. 52. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



land of their earlier ancestry is readily explained by the then inter- 

 vening oceans, which likewise were a barrier to the return of the horse 

 and rhinoceros. Man, however, came doubtless first across Behring's 

 Straits, and at his advent became part of our fauna as a mammal and 

 primate. 



As a confirmation of the view that the Platyrrhinse have descended 

 from monkeys, it may be mentioned that while the remains of Cebus, 

 Mycetes, Callethrix, and Hapale have been found, according to Ame- 

 ghino,^" in the Pleistocene strata of Brazil, extinct lennn-s, such as 

 Notopithecidffi and Homunculidge, have been discovered recently, 

 according to the same high authority, in the eocene deposits of South 

 America." Indeed, according to Ameghino," the Homunculidce are 

 to be regarded as the ''ancetres de tous les singes du nouveau que de 

 I'ancien continent les lemurs excepte." Cope appears to have taken 

 the same view as that expressed by Ameghino. In speaking of certain 

 extinct forms of monkeys found in Patagonia, he remarks that they 

 ''appear to be ancestors of the existing South American monkeys 

 (Cebidffi), and possibly of the Old Yvorld m.onkeys also."^^ 



It should be mentioned, however, that these fossils are regarded 

 by some paleontologists as being rather the remains of Platyrrhine 

 monkeys than lemurs. Should such prove hereafter to be the case, it 

 will not weaken the argument, since in that case the forms in question^ 

 if not lemurs, would be intermediate in character between the latter 

 and Platyrrhine monkeys. The remains of Catarrhine monkeys, such 

 as Papeo, Macacus, Semnopithecus, and possibly even of the chimpan- 

 zee and orang, have been found in the Pliocene deposits of India." 



Such facts are, however, not inconsistent — indeed, have little or no 

 bearing upon the question of the derivation of Catarrhine from Platyr- 

 rhine monkej^s — since the only assumption that would be necessary 

 would be to suppose that the Platyrrhine ancestors of the fossil Plio- 

 cene Catarrhines existed once in India or elsewhere. It may be said, 

 however, that this is assuming the very question at issue, a case of 

 petitio principii; but the reverse proposition, that the Platyrrhine 

 have descended from the Catarrhine monkeys, is untenable, being incon- 

 sistent with the w^ell-established fact that the more ancient members of 

 a group of animals had always more teeth than the later more recent 



1" Adas Sciencia.'i Cordoba, T. VI, 1S89, p. 101. 

 " Bol. Acad. Nac. Buenos Aires, T. XVII, 1902, p. 7. 

 12 Op. cif., T. XIII, 1902, p. 265. 

 " Organic Evolution, 1896, p. 154. 



1* Flower and Lyddeker, Mammals Living and Extinct, 1891, pp. 723, 727 

 738. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



members of the same. Thus among the Prosimige, for example, the 

 oldest members of the group, the Hyopsoclinse, possessed 44 teeth = 

 3 ' I ' ^ 3 in each jaw, the more recent Adapidae 40 teeth = | ' i\' ^ , 

 the most recent LemuridjB 36 teeth = |^ ^ | | , the Platyrrhin^e 36 teeth 



with the exception of the Arctopitheca 32 teeth = ^ 132' ^'^^^ filially 

 the Catarrhinse, including the anthropoid apes and man, 32 teeth = 

 g ' ^ ' ^ 3 . It is highly improbable, if not impossible, therefore, to say 

 the least, that Platyrrhine monkeys with 36 teeth should have descended 

 from Catarrhine ones i^rovided with only 32; that 4 premolar teeth, 

 absent in the ancestors, once lost, should reappear again in their de- 

 scendants — an objection that ecjually applies to Cope's derivation of 

 Cehus with 36 teeth from Hapale with 32, as previously mentioned. 



Further, the Platyrrhine monkeys resemble lemurs in many more 

 respects than in the mere number of the teeth, thus showing their 

 inferior position in zoological rank as compared with the Catarrhines. 

 Thus, for example, the oblique ridge extending from the anterior in- 

 ternal cusp (protocone) to the posterior external cusp (metacone) of 

 the upper molars in Ateles and Mycetes, and many other South Ameri- 

 can monkeys, is present in certain lemurs, such as Nycticehus, Ardo- 

 cebus, Loris, as also in anthropoid apes and man, though absent in the 

 remaining Catarrhines.^^ Now the presence of this oblique ridge in 

 the upper molars of lemurs, apes and man was regarded by so high an 

 authority as Cope as such an important feature in their structure that 

 it largely influenced that great paleontologist in suggesting the view, 

 already alluded to, that man and apes are the direct descendants of 

 lemurs rather than of Catarrhines. 



It is obvious, however, that if Cope's argvmient is of any force in the 

 above instance, it must be of even greater cogency in showing that 

 Platyrrhine monkeys have descended from lemurs, since lemurs and 

 Platyrrhina? not only exhibit the "oblique ridge" in their molars, but 

 possess many other structiual features in common, whereas lenuu's are 

 relatively so low in the zoological scale that they are not regarded liy 

 most anatomists as being primates at all. Indeed, Cope might just 

 as well have argued that man has descended from a Platyrrhine monkey 

 as from a lemur, the evidence adduced being about as good for the one 

 view as the other; for even if the "centre of motion" of the vertebral 

 column and the " anticlinal vertebra, " the number of vertebrae entering 

 into the formation of the sacrum, etc., are only the same in man, 

 anthropoids and Nycticebidce,^^ nevertheless in other respects — in fact, 



1^ Tomes, Dental Anatomy, 1876, pp. 7, 370. 



1® Flower, Osteology of Mammalia, 1870, pp. 47, 24, 60. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



in the totality of tlieir organization — man and anthropoids resemble 

 the Catarrhine monkeys far more than lemurs. Had Cope, at the time 

 he described Anaptomorphus, been aware that the placenta of Tarsius, 

 a closely affiliated lemur, was discoid in form and highly complex in 

 structure rather than diff\ise and non-deciduous, as in other lemurs, 

 his view of the lemuroid descent of man would have been strengthened 

 l^y an argument of far more weight than one based upon the presence 

 of an oblique ridge on certain teeth and the number of sacral vertel^rse, 

 which vary even in different individuals of the same or closely allied 

 species. Apart from the number of the teeth being the same in Platyr- 

 rhines and lemurs, the lemuroid character of dentition of the former is 

 clearly manifested by the long narrow inferior incisors of the South 

 American Saki (Pithccea). 



Further, in all Platyrrhine monkeys, as in most lemurs, the base of 

 the petrosal bone is excavated by that part of the lateral cerebral venous 

 sinus terminating at the postglenoicl fossa. Similarly in both lemurs 

 and Platyrrhines the malar bone is perforated by that branch of the 

 facial nerve known to the classical anatomist as the "nervus sub- 

 cutaneus malse." Again, in many Platyrrhines — as, for example, in 

 Cebus, Ateles, Nyctipithecus — a small unossified vacuity is exhibited in 

 the bony plate separating the orbital from the temporal fossa, evidently 

 the relic of the space by which the two fossa freely communicate in 

 the lemurs. 



In all the South American monkeys the tympanic bone retains more 

 or less its primitive ring-like form, the cavity of the tympanum lying- 

 close to the external wall of the cranium, its inferior surface, together 

 with that of the anchylosed penotic bone, exhibiting a very swollen 

 appearance. In this respect the Platyrrhine monkeys agree with the 

 lemurs, in which the inferior surface of the tympanum presents a large 

 rounded bulla, and differ from all Old World monkeys, in none of which 

 an auditory bulla is ever present. The otosteals of the Platyrrhines 

 resemble those of lemurs more than those of Catarrhines, monkeys, 

 apes or man. 



It is an interesting fact, also, that while the macula lutea is present 

 in the eye of man, apes and Catarrhines, it has never been found, so 

 far as known to the writer, in any Platyrrhine or lemur. 



As reference has been made to the character of the vertebrae in man 

 and Nycticebidffi, it may be as well mentioned in this connection tliat 

 in the lemur Galago the posterior edges of the spinous processes of the 

 lumbar vertebra3 present a pair of processes which, projecting back- 

 ward, clasp the anterior edges of the succeeding spinous process, and 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



that similar processes, though not so well developed as in Gcdago, are 

 present in certain species of South American monkeys, as, for example, 

 in Lagoihrix and Mycetes. The presence of these processes is quite 

 as strong a proof that Platyrrhines have descended from lemurs as 

 are the peculiarities in the vertel^ral column already referred to that 

 man has descended directly from a lemur. It is well known that 

 while the supracondylar perforation of the humerus is not found in 

 any Old World monkey, nor in Hapale, Ateles or Mycetes among those 

 of the New World, nevertheless such perforation is found in the Cebida3 

 and most of the lemurs. It would be tedious to show in farther 

 detail that, as regards the muscular system, the character of the brain, 

 the larynx, the alimentary canal, and in many other respects, the 

 Platyrrhine monkeys are less specialized than the Catarrhines, whicli 

 has induced the majority of anatomists to regard the New World 

 monkeys as of higher rank zoologically than the lemurs, but lower in 

 the scale of life than the Catarrhines, occupying an intermediate posi- 

 tion between the two. This is consistent with the view that they 

 are the descendants of the one and the ancestors of the other. 



This conclusion has l^een confirmed in late years by the remarkable 

 researches of Selenka," Strahl,^" and others, who have shown, in a 

 general way at least, that the transitory stages through wdiich the 

 placenta of man and anthropoids pass are permanently retained as 

 the placenta of certain marsupials, lemurs, Tarsius, Platyrrhines, 

 Catarrhines, illustrating the law that in the development of the 

 placenta the ontogeny is as elsewhere the epitome of the phylogeiiy. 



Thus while in marsupials like Macropus the allantois remains free, 

 as first shown by Owen," and nearly fifty years afterward by the writer ,^° 

 in Perameles and Deisyunis the allantois, it is said, adheres to the 

 mucous wall of the uterus, forming at least the beginning of a placenta, 

 without, however, a decidua or chorionic villous process being devel- 

 oped. In lemurs, while no decidua is as yet developed, the chorion 

 exhibits villous processes which insinuate themselves into the mucous 

 wall of the uterus. In Teir-sius, however, the allantois begins to form a 

 true disk-like placenta with a veritable decidua — "nicht eine lockere 

 gross zottige diffuse Placentation wie Lemur und Nycticebus sondern 

 eine hoch komplicirte und diskoide Placenta besitzt."^^ 



^' Selenka, Studien iiber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Tiere, 1900, S. 176. ' 

 '^ Strahl, in O. Hertwig's Entivickelungslehre der Wirbeltiere, Dritte Lieferung, 

 1900, S. 235. 



19 Phil. Trans., 1834, 27. 



^°Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1881. 



-1 HuBRECHT, Die Keimblase von Tarsius, 1896, S. 15. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 155 



The placenta of the New World monkeys exhibit a step further in 

 advance the difference from the placenta of Tarsius, being however, 

 one of degree raiher than of kind. 



In the Old World monkeys the allantois forms a double placenta, a 

 primary large dorsal one and a secondary small ventral one (Plate X). 

 While this appears to be normally the case, it should be mentioned 

 that the writer observed but one placenta in the case of a pregnant 

 female of Macacus cynomolgus examined by him, though the preg- 

 nancy was far advanced in both instances. ^^ n ^m j^q observed that 

 in the case of the Macacus (Plate X), the two placentas are not 

 entirely separated as is usually the case in Catarrhines, being joined 

 by a small body of tissue. 



It is also a significant fact that while two umbilical veins and two 

 umbilical arteries are always present in the umbilical cord of the New 

 World monkeys, but one umbilical vein is present in that of the Old 

 World ones. Finally, the placenta of the anthropoids agrees essentially 

 with that of man. 



In the opinion of the writer, therefore, the phylum submitted at 

 p. 149, essentially that of Haeckel," expresses about the truth as to 

 the descent of man, etc., so far as can be learned at present from the 

 facts of palaeontology, comparative anatomy and embryology, that 

 bear upon the question. That the ancient Prosimise, Hyopsodinse, 

 Adapida?, etc., have descended from some ungulate type of life is 

 manifested by their affinities with the latter group of mammals. 

 Indeed, Cuvier described .4c/apis as "un autre genre de pachyderme 

 — et que je nommerai provisoirement Adapis,"^* while, according to 

 Leidy, Notharctus tenebrosus was "a, small extinct pachyderm, re- 

 sembling that of some of the existing American monkeys quite as much 

 as it does that of any of the living pachyderms. "^^ 



It is quite possible that future researches may show that there is 

 no genetic connection between Chiromys and the Rodentia, but that 

 the rodent-like teeth of the former and of the wombat may have been 

 acquired independently by a process of natural selection, it being easy 

 to see, according to Tomes,^^ ''how a rodent type of dentition is bene- 

 ficial to its possessor by rendering accessible articles of food wholly 

 unavailable for creatures which have no means of gnawing through' a 



" Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PMla., 1879, p. 146. 

 ^^ Anthropogenie, Zweiter Band, 1903, S. 650. 

 ^■^ Ossemens Fossiles, Tome 5"'', 1S35, p. 460. 

 ^^ Leidy, op. cit., pp. 86, 89. 

 2« Op. cit., p. 249. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



shell or other hard body," the theory being, according to Darwin, 

 that a small variation arising in the dentition through some nutritive 

 change, and being of advantage in the struggle for life, would be 

 intensified in successive generations until, in the end, a type of tooth 

 would be evolved such as is presented in the case of the wombat, 

 Chiromys, and Rodentia living in far distant parts of the world. 



Finally, in the judgment of the writer, man cannot have descended 

 from either the gorilla, chimpanzee, the orang or gibbon, since, apart 

 from the structural difference between any one of them and man being 

 too great to warrant such an hypothesis, the three great anthropoid 

 apes are obviously degenerates leading to no higher form of life, but 

 ra]3idly dying out, as shown by the fact that these apes resemble man 

 much more when Yevj young than when adult. While it is true that 

 the gap between man and the gibbon is greater than between man 

 and the remaining apes, nevertheless, as Pithecanthropus erectus, 

 whatever its real nature may be, is something more than a gibbon, and 

 yet something less than a man — more ape-like than any man, and more 

 man-like than any ape ^^ — by a method of exclusion the conclusion is 

 reached that the man and gibbon are related in some way. 



It must iDe admitted, nevertheless, that the question of the exact 

 origin of man is largely as yet one of speculation, and that future re- 

 searches may show that our ancestors may have been extinct Catar- 

 rhine or Platyrrhine monkeys or even lemurs. 



-' E. Dubois, Pithecanthropus Erectus, 1894. 

 O. C. Marsh, On the Pithecanthropus, etc., 1895. 



ScHWALBE, Studien iiber Pithecanthropus erectus, Zeits. fiir Morph. v. 

 Anthr., 1899, S. 16. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



SABELLID5: AND SERPULIDJE FROM JAPAN, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW 

 SPECIES OF SPIRORBIS. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE and KATHARINE J. BUSCH. 



In these Proceedings for 1903 was published a paper describing 

 most of the Polychseta taken in Japanese waters and elsewhere in the 

 North Pacific in the spring of 1900 by the U. S. F. C. steamer Albatross. 

 The present paper is a continuation of that contribution, and is based 

 on the same collections. A third part will some time deal Avith a num- 

 ber of species belonging to various families, the descriptions of which 

 are withheld until some desirable comparisons can be made. Among 

 the species previously described a considerable admixture of circum- 

 boreal forms was found, most of them from the more northern stations. 

 That none such is found among the Sabellidee and Serpulidse probably 

 results from the fact that all of the species described in this paper came 

 from the southeastern coast of Honshu, and especially from Station 

 3,707, on a sandy and gravelly bottom in Suruga Bay. Saint-Joseph's 

 revision of these families was largely used as a guide in the generic 

 references, but even with this help much difficulty was found in satis- 

 factorily placing several of the species, and it will be noticed that some 

 of them, and particularly Sabella japoiiica and Pomatoceras aurituhis, 

 depart widely from the generic types in some respects. In the enu- 

 meration of segments the collar setse have been counted as belonging 

 to the first of peristomial somite. 



I take this opportunity to state that Maldane coronata and Axiothea 

 campanulata of my former paper are synonyms respectively of M. 

 gotoi and Cbjmene harai Izuka. Although Izuka's paper was pub- 

 lished some months before mine it was not seen by me luitil after 

 the correction of the final proofs. 

 Sabella japonica n. sp. (PI. XI, fig.s. l, 2; PL XII, figs. 39, 40.) 



Without the branchiie the type specimen has a length of 25 mm., 

 of which the thorax takes 5 mm., and is 2.5 mm. in diameter; the de- 

 tached branchia? are 7.5 mm. long. A second specimen without bran- 

 chiae is 23 mm. long. As the branchiae are detached some doubt 

 attaches to them. They are much twisted, with 15 pairs of rather 

 short, thick radioles slightly coiled inward at the ends; the barbs are 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



double-ranked, veiy close together, and have a nearly uniform length 

 of 1.3 mm. to the end of the radioles. No eyes are visible. The second 

 radiole from the dorsum of the right side terminates in a membranous 

 vesicle which is probably pathological, but which would act much like 

 the operculum of Apomatus. The branchial lobes are slightly involute 

 ventrally. The collar is stiff and erect, separated by the entire width 

 of the body dorsally, but prolonged ventrally as a pair of abrupt promi- 

 nent narrow lobes in contact at the base. Except for very slight 

 lateral emarginations the margin is entire. The thoracic region is 

 nearly terete, the abdominal somewhat depressed and of a uniform 

 width except at the tapering caudal end. There are 8 setigerous 

 thoracic and 55 or 56 abdominal somites, mostly distinctly marked 

 and uniannulate. Thick and very distinct ventral plates occupy the 

 neural third of the boch^ Those of the thorax are tmce as wide as 

 long and undivided, except the first, or peristomial one, which is as wide 

 as long and of a sugar-loaf shaped outline. The first abdominal ])late 

 is pentagonal, the others are divided into two equal squares by the 

 fffical groove which is very distinct ventrally, but, after turning to the 

 right in the fiu'row '^/ x, and bending forward on IX, disappears totally 

 on the side of the latter below the setse. There is no trace of the dorsal 

 groove. The setigerous and uncinigerous tori are strictlj' lateral and 

 not elevated above the general surface of the body; the latter diminish 

 in size caudally. The body cavity is filled with rather large eggs. 



All of the setse (PI. XI, fig. 1) are of the winged capillary type, but 

 differ considerably in length, slenderness and width of the wing. They 

 are very nearly straight, ver}^ acute, and, although obliquely striated, the 

 wings have entire margins. Both avicular and pick-shaped micini 

 occur on the thoracic, the former only on abdominal somites. Their 

 number is alwa5^s small — e.g., 27 of each on III, 21 on VI, and 20 on 

 Vm, while never more than 18 of the avieukie only occur on abdominal 

 somites. In both regions they rapidly diminish in size from the end 

 of the tori nearest to the setae, the smallest in the abdominal tori 

 not exceeding ^ the size of the largest. In the thoracic region the 

 same statement applies to the pick-shaped hooks. The thoracic 

 avicular uncini (fig. 39) have elongated bodies, about eciualling the 

 elevated neck and head, the posterior process slender and produced, 

 and the breast small, but abrupt and strongly convex. The neck 

 meets the body nearty at a right angle, is high and erect, and curves 

 broadly and regularly into the stout tapering beak \\dthout any dis- 

 tinct enlargement into head or crest. The crest is represented by a 

 fine striation near the vertex without anv elevation or free teeth. The 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



sinus is very open with nearty straight parallel sides. On the abdomi- 

 nal somites these iincini (fig. 40) differ in the much reduced posterior 

 I^rocess, the deeper, more sloping breast and the more wedge-shaped 

 sinus. The figure is, however, somewhat foreshortened. The smaller 

 imcini (fig. 2) have a peculiar form, which is transitional between the 

 avicular and the usual pick-shaped uncini. The slender stem or body 

 is bent strongly and slightly thickened, but lacks a distinct breast. 

 The head is slightly enlarged with a very short, stout, slightly de- 

 curved beak and a prominent cap-like crest, much subdivided; from 

 the base of the beak projects a slender angulated filament. In the 

 form of the small uncini this species departs widely from the typical 

 Sabellce. 



Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms. Type and one other. 



Potamilla acuminata n. sp. (PI. XI, figs. 3-6; PI. XII, fig. 41.) 



This species is elongated and slender, a complete example having a 

 total length of 56 mm., of which the branchise are 20 mm. and the 

 thorax 5 mm., the diameter being 1.9 mm. 



The branchiffi are more than ^ of the total length, and when retracted 

 into the tube are not at all or very slightly twisted and coiled. Two 

 specimens have 19 radioles on the right, 17 on the left, the other having 

 15 and 16 respectively. They are straight, slender, of nearly uniform 

 diameter, without eye-spots, and bear barbs nearly or quite to the tips 

 in the dorsalmost radioles, but have a free end devoid of barbs and of 

 considerable length in the ventral ones. Most of the radioles are pro- 

 vided with a short membranous wing on the inner side of the base, but 

 there is no trace of a connecting web. The barbs have the usual 

 biserial arrangement and equal or exceed the diameter of the body, 

 with little diminution toward the distal end. The bases are entirely 

 simple. 



The collar is scarcely evident dorsall}', but becomes prominent 

 opposite to the dorsal setse line, just below which is a barely distinguish- 

 able fold. On each side of the median ventral line is a broadly roiuided, 

 flat, somewhat tliickened process, about as long as the first somite. 

 In the retracted specimens these overlap medially. The entire ventral 

 portion of the collar, except the ventral lobes, is extremely thin and 

 delicate. 



Between the bases of the branchise is a small roimded prostomial 

 lobe, from which a broad folded memibrane extends laterally around 

 the mouth and joins the bases of the branchise. Connected with the 

 inner side of the latter also are the so-called tentacles, consisting of a 

 pair of processes about twice as long as the second somite, with the 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



leaf-like basal part folded longitudinally to form a groove, and the 

 terminal ^ attenuated. 



The complete specimen has 8 setigerous thoracic and 68 abdominal 

 somites. The body is nearl}' terete throughout and has a nearly uni- 

 form diameter, except at the posterior end. Anteriorly the parapodia 

 are not at all elevated, but become rather prominent posteriorly. 

 Except the peristomeum all somites have sharply defined ventral 

 plates. In one specimen all, and in the others all but the first 8, are 

 divided into 2 equal squares by a ventral groove. The pygidium has 

 the form of a slightly oblique welt-like fold, which bounds the anus 

 dorsally and laterally. The fsecal groove is well-marked ventrally from 

 the anus to the somite IX, on which it passes caudad of the ventral plate 

 to the right and then bends sharply forward and passes obliquely 

 anterior to the seta bmidle to the dorsum, where it disappears. 



All of the setae and uncini are of a pale glistening yellow color and 

 have the arrangement usual in the genus. The seta^ of II are all of 

 the winged capillary type, but differ in length, width of wing and degree 

 of curvature or bending. The more slender and regularly curved ones 

 are dorsal. The 7 succeeding thoracic somites bear both ca]>illary in 

 the dorsal and paddle-shaped setse in the ventral part of the bundles. 

 The former (fig. 3) have the characters just described, but the more 

 ventral ones exhibit transitions toward the broad form in the tendency 

 of the wing to widen and split into two divergent symmetrical plates. 

 The two kinds are, however, always distinct. The paddle-shaped 

 setse (fig. 5) are arranged in a short, close phalanx. They have rela- 

 tively stout, shghtly tapering, striated stems, with the short, broad 

 wings together forming a thin ovate expansion which tapers distall}' 

 into a mucronate tip, whose length equals the greatest Midth of the 

 blade and which is bent out of the plane of the latter. On the abdomi- 

 nal somites only capillary setae (fig. 4) again occur, and in graduallv 

 diminishing number. The more slender, elongated, nearly wingless 

 ones are usually paired with shorter broader ones. 



On the thoracic segments the uncinigerous tori are flush with the 

 surface of the body and bear the two kinds of uncini in parallel vertical 

 rows, the aviculae being anterior. On somite III there are 44 of each, 

 on VI 32, and a further reduced number on VIII. The avicular uncini 

 (fig. 41) have the slender posterior process aiid the erect portion equal 

 and meeting at a right angle; the breast nearly hemispherical; the 

 neck erect and straight; the beak moderately long, acute and straight. 

 and inclined sharply downward with the lower margin ])arallel to the 

 breast; the crest elevated and much subdivided, with about .5 distinct 




3904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



teeth along the profile. The pick-shaped imcini (fig. 6) are more char- 

 acteristic. They have slender, slightly curved stems, shghtly increasing 

 in diameter toward the distal end, and exceed the total length of the 

 avicular uncini. The head is small, with a rounded back, and a short 

 blunt beak, enclosed in a delicate and transparent hood, the base of 

 which is often inflated, and the distal part prolonged at right angles 

 to the stem into an exceedingly delicate and attenuated process, which, 

 though varying considerably in length, always much exceeds the length 

 of the head of the avicular uncini. The latter only occur on the ab- 

 domidal somites, where they form short vertical series of from 12 to 18. 

 Except that the upper outline of the breast is more sloping, they have 

 exactly the form of the thoracic ones. 



In the form of its setse this species closely resembles Sahella {Pota- 

 ■milla?) assimilis Mcintosh, but the pick-shaped uncini of that species 

 have not been described. It was dredged by the Challenger in 600 

 fathoms off Buenos Ayres. It also agrees fairly well with the Pota- 

 milla torelli of Marenzeller and Langerhans, but not with JMalmgren's 

 original description. 



The tube is circular and tortuous, of a tough cartilaginous consistency, 

 covered evenly with very fine sand and has a clear line, evidently of 

 attachment, along one side. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., 2 specimens and fragments of a third, 

 with tubes. 



Hypsicomus lyra n. sp. (PI. XI, figs. 7-13; PI. XII, fig. 42.) 



The type is very long and slender, having a total length of 84 mm., 

 the thorax 6 mm. and the gills 20 mm. ; the diameter is 1.6 mm. 



As seems to be usual in the genus, the basal lobes of the gills are 

 quite prominent, about equalhng the length of the first 3 somites, 

 and their somewhat membranous dorsal and ventral margins overlap 

 in the middle line. The distal end is strietl}^ transverse and even, so 

 that the radioles all arise from the same level. The radioles are long, 

 slender, straight, not winged, and united by a web for the basal |. 

 The double-ranked barbs are very numerous, slender and long, their 

 length about equalhng the diameter of the bod}^, l^ut diminishing some- 

 what before the short, naked tip of the radiole is reached. A con- 

 spicuous zone of reddish-brown eye-spots occupies about the third -^-^ 

 of the branchiae, though they exhibit much irregularity in arrangement, 

 and seldom occupy this entire distance on individual radioles. Each 

 radiole bears a series on each outer luargin, but the number varies from 

 5 to 20 or more, and they may be widely separated, jnuch crowded or 

 11 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



even coalesced. They also vary much in size, and the two series on a 

 radiole are seldom symmetrical. 



The collar is simple, cleft, but in contact and slightly inturned dorso- 

 medially. The dorsal half is low, of an even height, and has a shghtly 

 wavy margin. The ventral half rises very gradually to the apex of 

 the triangular lobes which nearly meet in the middle line l^ut diverge 

 distally. There are no lateral incisions. 



A pair of prominent tentacles are united with the middle of the inner 

 face of the undivided base of the palpi. They rise freeh' to a length 

 exceeding that base, and consist of a foliaceous proximal ^, and a nar- 

 row ligulate distal |. Besides these a pair of minute processes occur 

 side by side on the middle of the head disk, and probably represent the 

 true prostomial tentacles. 



The 174 to 184 somites, of which S are thoracic, form a slender, elon- 

 gated body, terete anteriorly, but very strongly arched above and with 

 a sole-like ridge formed by the ventral plates in the posterior part. 

 The lozenge-shaped anus is situated in a small pygidium. In the 

 thoracic region the segments are longer and distinct ; in the abdominal 

 they are very short and posteriorly much crowded. Here the body 

 walls are very thin and distended by the w^ell-filled intestine. The 

 ventral plates of the thoracic region are not elevated above the general 

 surface, but occupy the entire area between the tori. Thej^ are sepa- 

 rated from each other l)y deep transverse grooves, and the first from 

 the peristomial collar by a deep brown or black, apparently chitinous 

 line. The first is about 4 times as broad as long, the second 3 times, 

 and the others not over 1^ times. The first al^dominal plate is about f 

 as long as the last thoracic, the second is polygonal, and the others 

 become successively shorter to the caudal end and form a deeply 

 pigmented, narrow, sole-like ridge, divided from the anterior margin 

 of the third one to the anus by the faecal groove. The facal groove 

 divides the ventral plates continuously to the posterior margin of 

 somite X, around which and IX it passes obliquely to the right, and 

 then along the middle of the dorsum of the thoracic segments, on Avhich, 

 however, it is very faint. 



Dense tufts of setie occupy the dorsal portion of the setigerous tori 

 on II to VIII inclusive, and smaller tufts of very prominent setse pro- 

 ject from the ventral side of those of all abdominal somites. On 

 somite I are two setigerous lines shaped like the sides of a lyre, which 

 begin wdth a just perceptible curve slightly dorsad of the succeediiig 

 tuft of seta?, and diverge oljliquely forward in a nearly straight line to 

 the base of the collar, on which they extend as an intiu-ned loop of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



very minute setse. The thoracic uncinigerous tori are strictly vertical, 

 and ventral to the setaj, and occupy an area on each side about equal 

 to the ventral plates. The abdominal tori are dorsal to the setse and 

 quite short. 



On somite I the collar setse are arranged in a double series along each 

 line. Those of the dorsalmost series (fig. 8) are stouter, nearly straight, 

 and are terminated by an elongated conical hood or sheath more or 

 less inflated at the base, and usually bent or wavy in the slender distal 

 half. They are evidently intermediate in structure between the pick- 

 shaped uncini and limbate setse. Those of the ventralmost series (fig. 

 7) are more slender, sharply curved at the end, and provided on the 

 convex side with a short but broad obliquely striated wing. The re- 

 maining thoracic somites contain curved limbate setse in the dorsal 

 part of the fascicles and paddle-shaped spatulate setse ventrally. The 

 former (fig. 9) present no noteworthy features. The latter are arranged 

 in close double file, those of the cephalic file (fig. 10) being stouter with , 

 very broad, truncate, usually more or less asymmetrical blades; those 

 of caudal (fig. 11) row have nearly circular blades, which usually bear 

 a smooth-edged mucronate tip as long as or slightly longer than the 

 blade. In the abdominal fascicles are 2 or 3 slender, nearly or quite 

 wingless capillary setse, and a small number of paddle-shaped setse (fig. 

 12), with small ovoid blades and a' prominent, stout, fringed terminal 

 process 2 or 3 times as long. 



There are about 60 of each kind of uncini in the thoracic rows begin- 

 ning with II. The avicular form (fig. 42) has the base straight, much 

 prolonged posteriorly, and with a small rounded breast. From the 

 base the short, somewhat tapering neck inclines forward at an angle of 

 about 120°. There is no enlarged head, but the vertex is high, promi- 

 nent and narrow, with the rather short, straight conical beak bent 

 down at a sharp angle. The crest is scarcely difterentiated, the front 

 of the vertex being only faintly striated and not at all subdivided. 

 Pick-shaped uncini (fig. 13) are well differentiated and regularly paired 

 with the larger ones. They have straight, column-like stems, and 

 hollow sheath-like heads (sometimes slightly inflated), running 

 into slender, tapering processes nearly at right angles to the stem. 

 The abdominal uncini are fewer, smaller, and have longer necks than 

 the thoracic avicular uncini, but are otherwise c^mte similar. 



The tube is slightly sinuous, nearly roimd in section and about 

 2.3 mm. in diameter. It has a peculiar tough horny texture, is thin- 

 walled and deep brown or almost black. 



From H. phwatccnia (Schmarda) Marenzeller this species differs 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



especially in the presence of mucronate paleee in the thoracic tori and 

 in the greater number of setae and palese in the abdominal somites, as 

 well as in the form of the palea and pick-shaped uncini and the arrange- 

 ment of the eyes. 



Sm-uga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 4 specimens, with tubes. 



Dasychone japonica Mcintosh. 



The specimens have a length of 40 mm., the branchiae being 13. 

 There are 8 setigerous thoracic and 76 abdominal somites and 28 to 30 

 branchial plumes. With the exception of occasional variations having 

 a second small accessory tooth, the uncini are exactly as figured by 

 Mcintosh. The tentacles are lanceolate, + the length of the branchiae 

 and thickly spotted ^\^th reddish-browm. Two specimens, one in a 

 membranous tube to which various foreign bodies are attached, from 

 an imknown station. 



The first dorsal appendage of each branchial radiole is fully twice as 

 long as and much thicker than any of the others, and is single, and not 

 paired, as the others are. The collar begins dorsally as a prominent lobe, 

 which includes the first fascicle of setae; ventrally it is thickened and 

 the ventral lobes overlap medially for nearly their entire width. 

 There are no lateral incisions. 



Laonome tridentata n. sp. (PI. XII, fig. 44.) 



The type and only specimen is 44 mm. long without branchiae, 

 which are 9 mm. in length; the thorax is 7 mm. long and 4 mm. 

 diameter. 



The detached branchiae found in the same bottle are not known 

 with absolute certainty to belong to this species. The basal part of 

 each palp forms an undivided plate about twice the length of the peris- 

 tomium and of a scroll-like form with a slightly spiral roll. Each 

 bears 15 rather thick short radioles not exceeding twice the diameter of 

 the thorax. The longest barbs or filaments at the base have a length 

 equaUing about ^ of the body diameter, and they diminish toward the 

 end, where the radiole terminates in a slender naked filament longer 

 than the longest barbs. There are no eyes. 



The peristomial collar is about as long as the second somite, slightly 

 more produced on the ventral side and consequently somewhat oblique. 

 It is deeply cleft in the middle line dorsally and slightly so ventrally, 

 but without lateral incisions. It is thick and stift^, with the margin 

 entire and slightly produced, but not lobed ventrally. 



There are 8 setigerous thoracic and 62 abdominal somites. The 

 body is slightly flattened, with a nearly uniform width, tapering some- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 165 



what toward the posterior end, where it terminates in a slightly oblique 

 pygidiiim with a somewhat ventral anus. The peristomium and the 

 base of the collar are dusky with numerous minute spots, which con- 

 tinue also on to the sides of several of the succeeding somites. No 

 distinct ventral plates are developed, but the entire body wall appears 

 to be somewhat glandularly thickened. Throughout the abdominal 

 region the fascal groove is very narrow but distinct. Reaching the 

 ventral middle line of IX it bends to the right and passes obliquely 

 across that segment to the level of the setffi, then in the furrow VIII / IX 

 for a short distance, and obliquely across the dorsum of VIII to its 

 anterior border at the dorsal middle line, from which point it continues 

 forward, becoming very deep on II and I, and finally disappears in 

 the dorsal collar cleft. 



The thoracic setigerous tubercles are quite prominent and the unci- 

 nigerous tori very long, the most anterior ones nearly meeting ventrally 

 and the posterior not much shorter. The abdominal tori are about ^ 

 as long as the anterior thoracic. 



The setas occur in strong tufts, but all are broken short off at the 

 body surface. A few fragments of the terminal parts indicate that 

 they are short and stout, with broad blades distinctly denticulated 

 on the margins. Both thoracic and abdominal somites bear rather 

 large uncini, all of one kind and arranged in a single series. A torus 

 on somite V contains 112, all of one size; on the abdominal somites 

 they are about f as large, and 41 were counted on somite XI. 



They have the form (fig. 44) represented by Malmgren for the type 

 of the genus and quite unlike that figured by Marenzeller for his 

 Laonome japonica. The base is abruptly truncated posteriorly, nearly 

 continuing the direction of the posterior line of the neck, but is pro- 

 duced anteriorly into a remarkably prominent breast that reaches 

 beyond the tip of the beak. A short, thick, erect neck is surmoimted 

 by a scarcely enlarged head with a prominent, acute, slightly recurved 

 beak nearly parallel with the opposite border of the breast, from which 

 it is separated by a sinus much narrower than the diameter of the neck; 

 the elevated crest is composed of 3 or rarely of 4 very distinct, acute, 

 solid teeth of diminishing size. 



Suruga Bay, 3,707, type only, without tube. 

 Euchone alicaudata n. sp. (PI. XI, figs. 14-16; PI. XII, fig. 43.) 



The single example was taken from a tube and is regularly rounded 

 and of equal diameter, with the somites very indistinctly indicated, ex- 

 cept at the caudal end, where the body is flattened and tapers abruptly. 

 The total length is 38 mm., the thorax 6.5 mm., and the branchia 13 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



mm. There are eight setigerous thoracic and twenty-five abdominal 

 somites. The thoracic and most of the abdominal somites are ob- 

 scm-ely equally biannulate. Ventral i3lates are confined to the thoracic 

 segments and are divided into two equal parts by the transverse inter- 

 annular furrows. The last eight abdominal somites are more distinctly 

 differentiated, and decrease rapidly in diameter to the short rounded 

 pygidimn. From them the broad caudal membrane arises just ventrad 

 of the setffi, continuing anteriorly around the ventral surface nearly to 

 the middle hne, but posteriorly spreading widely as a horizontal plate 

 with a median emargination in which the pygidium lies. The basal 

 part of the membrane exhibits distinct metameric thickenings which 

 disappear toward the margins. 



The anus is situated slightly ventrad in a small slit, from which the 

 very faint fsecal groove passes forward between the ventral cleft of 

 the caudal membrane to the posterior margin of somite IX, where 

 it turns to the left, passes obliquely across the side of this somite and 

 disappears in front of the setigerous area, but reappears in the dorsal 

 middle line of VIII and continues to the peristomium, where it turns 

 slightly to the left and disappears finally on the collar. 



The collar is ver}^ peculiar. It is thin and rather high, its margin 

 even all around, but, owing to the obliquity of the peristomium due 

 to the prolongation forward of its ventral plate, the height of the collar 

 appears to be about twice as great dorsally as ventrally. The median 

 ventral part is injured so that the character of the ventral lobes cannot 

 be ascertained. Laterally at the level of the sides of the ventral plates 

 is an abrupt thinning, folded in the form of a little niche terminating 

 at the base in a minute pit; but there is no actual incision. Dorsally 

 a somewhat similar condition exists, each half of the collar being ad- 

 herent to the median line by a very delicate membranous fold, so that 

 no actual cleft is present, The fold of the right side overlaps the left 

 broadly, and thus deflects the end of the feecal groove toward the 

 latter side. No eyes nor otocysts are visible on either the peristomium 

 or pygidium. 



As indicated by the measurements the branchice are relatively 

 elongated, contributing about ^ of the total length. The basal lobes 

 are exceedingly short and are entirel}^ concealed Avithin the collar. 

 There are 15 branchial radioles on each side, arranged strictly in one 

 row and of equal length. They show no tendency to coil or twist. 

 The radioles of each half are connected for ^ of their length by a delicate 

 membrane, to which they stand in the relation of the ribs to the cover 

 of an umbrella, and which is continued as a delicate wing, especially 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



wide on the most dorsal and ventral member of each group, along each 

 radiole and expands at their ends into a leaf-like appendage, through 

 which the naked end of the radiole passes like a mid-rib, and l^eyond 

 which it forms a short mucronatc tip. The filaments present the usual 

 paired arrangement and are numerous and exceedingly long, the length 

 of the basal ones being at least 1^ times the diameter of the thoracic 

 segments. Besides the ordinary filaments a number of very mucli 

 larger ones occur within the radioles, one apparently being attached 

 to the base of each of several of the latter. Though none is perfect, 

 they often equal ^ of the length of the radioles. As they bear slight 

 wings and have distinct cartilaginous axes, they probably represent 

 a second set of naked radioles. The region is so brittle that a thorough 

 study of the specimen is impossible. The tentacles are apparent!}' 

 short ovate-lanceolate in shape. Very small eggs completely fill the 

 body cavity. 



The setse of the first thoracic fascicle and the abdominal somites are 

 apparently all slender, winged capillary, those on the latter with 

 extremely narrow wings. On the other thoracic somites there are 

 two forms; distinguished by the breadth of the wings and not always 

 to be sharply separated. Those in a dorsal group (fig. 14) have slender, 

 longitudinally striated shafts, more or less bent and drawn out to a very 

 fine tip, the winged margin fringed, confined to one side, of varying 

 width and reaching far out toward the end of the shaft. Those of a 

 ventral group (fig. 15) are shorter, stouter, with short, broad, usually 

 asymmetrical, obliquely striated double wings and an acuminate tip. 

 The internal structure is similar to the more slender setee. 



The thoracic uncini (fig. 16), which are arranged in single rows, have 

 long, slender, curved stems with a slight shoulder at the surface of the 

 body and beyond it a neck; the head has a long, rather slender, slightly 

 recurved beak and a crest from which three larger spines are separated 

 on each side below, the rest being finely divided. The abdominal 

 uncini (fig. 43) are truncate behind, somewhat as in Laonome, but 

 with a slightly produced process ; the breast is both high and prominent 

 with a nearlj^ square anterior margin ; the sinus is very small ; and the 

 beak acute, surmounted by a crest exhibiting 6 or 7 teeth of diminishing 

 size along the profile. 



The somewhat horny, stiff tube is covered with coarse sand grains 

 and minute bits of shell. 



Sagami Bay, 3,698, 153 fms., type only. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Protula geniculata sp. nov. (PI. XI, figs. 17, IS; PI. XII, fig. 38.) 



The tAvo specimens upon which this species is founded were taken 

 from the tubes, and are consequent!}^ in a rather poor state of preserva- 

 tion and altered in shape by the constraint. Except for the flattened 

 and tapering caudal end the form is completely terete and the thoracic 

 membrane is wrapped closely about the body. Following are the 

 measurements of the type : Total length, 27 mm. ; branchite, 5 mm. ; 

 thorax, 5.5 mm., and diameter of thorax, 1.2 mm. 



Branchiae remain in the type specimen only, and are so fragile that 

 a complete study is impossible. Their bases are short and simple, 

 concealed by the collar ventrally but exposed dorsally. The radioles 

 number about 18 on each side, arise strictly in one row, although in 

 the retracted condition some of the dorsalmost ones are turned inward 

 and spirally twisted, so that they appear partly in a double row. Most 

 of the radioles are rounded in section, Init the dorsalmost one on each 

 side is flattened. There is no basal web. At the base of the radioles 

 the barbs are as long as one-half of the diameter of the thorax, but 

 become gradually shorter toward the tip, where they leave naked a 

 filamentous portion of the radiole about as long as the basal barbs. 

 There is no operculum. 



The strictly ventral collar is produced directly forward to a length 

 about equal to an anterior thoracic somite ; the margin is smooth and 

 entirely without trace of any folds or incisions and with short rounded 

 lateral lobes. The thoracic membrane is rather prominent and pro- 

 duced anteriorly beyond the collar, but not overlapping its lateral 

 lobes. Dorsally the two sides overlap considerably in the middle line, 

 and are thrown into deep oblique folds at each somite, owing to the 

 stowing of a large surface within the small space of the tube. Posteri- 

 orly they reach beyond the last thoracic somite and join in a closely 

 appressed ventral fold covering the first abdominal somite below. 



There are sev'en setigerous thoracic somites and seventy abdominal 

 somites. The bundles of thoracic seta are all at the same level and of 

 similar size; the uncinigerous tori are short, equal and widely separated 

 ventrally on all somites. The sides of the thoracic somites between 

 them are transversely wrinkled. On the abdominal region the anterior 

 tori are nearer the dorsal than the ventral side, but posteriorly they are 

 strictly lateral. At the posterior end the body is beveled toward the 

 dorsal side and is provided with low lateral ridges, but no distinct 

 caudal membrane. Dorsally this flattened region bears a narrow but 

 thick shield plate which tapers to an acute point anteriorly and is 

 partly metameric. It occupies about 20 somites and is white and 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



chalky in appearance. In another specimen this plate is less attenu- 

 ated anteriorly. The body throughout is much tinged with reddish- 

 orange which was probably the natural color. 



All of the thoracic setre are of the limbate type with rather short nar- 

 rowh^ lanceolate ends, especially slender on those of the smaller collar 

 tuft; all are colorless, very slight!}^ curved and of more uniform size 

 than usual. The abdominal, except at the caudal end, bear two 

 geniculate setse (fig. 38) on each side. They are transparent and color- 

 less, with broad, short, A'ery thin and pointed blades, bent nearly at 

 right angles to the shaft, and which appear to have the margin per- 

 fectly smootli. On the caudal somites the sette occur in tufts of 

 three, but occasionally two; they are long, slender, capillary, tapering 

 and curved, but wingless at the tip. 



The uncini are relatively small, very delicate, and much crowded, 

 with about 26 distinct and some smaller obscure teeth, all strongly 

 bent downward and overlapping. The upper part of the tooth- 

 bearing margin with the larger teeth rises prominently above the body 

 of the vmcinus. The thoracic micini (fig. 18) have the body quach'ate 

 with the truncate lower margin on a level with the elongated lower 

 tooth, while the abdominal uncini (fig. 17) have nearly triangular 

 bodies with the somewhat angulatcd margin not nearly reaching to 

 the end of the long tooth. This tooth is really a projection of the 

 body of the uncinus and itself bears a fringe of fine teeth on its basal 

 half. 



Two nearly complete tubes are present in the collection. They were 

 evidently attached at the base only, with the greater part upright and 

 straight or slightly sinuous, gradually increasing in diameter, perfectly 

 terete, the walls thick, porcellaneous, with a thin, somewhat rough, 

 chalky surface marked with distinct lines of growth, but without any 

 ridges or other special sculpturing. 



Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 2 specimens. 

 Vermilia ctenophora n. sp. (PI. XII, figs. 21-25.) 



A complete example has a total length of 27 mm., the operculum 

 6.5 mm., gills 5.7 mm., and thorax 5 mm. An incomplete specimen is 

 larger. 



The branchife are considerably contracted and very compactly 

 packed into the tube, without any trace of a spiral twist. The undi- 

 vided base is relatively prominent, composing about ^ of the total length 

 of the gill. Wlien the branchiae are retracted the distal margin is 

 decidedly oblique and much longer ventrally. Radioles 20 on each 

 side, in the contracted state folded by the doublino- of the base dorsad 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



into an inner and an outer series, the barbs of wliich face each other. 

 The radioles are thick and short, with a short, thick, finger-hke termi- 

 nation lacking barbs, and in one specimen, not enclosed in a t\ibe, are 

 curled inward at the ends. There are no branchial eyes. Except near 

 the end, where they become shorter, the barbs have a length of about 

 f the diameter of the thorax and are numerous and crowded. Three 

 or four of the dorsalmost radioles each bear at the base a larger barb, 

 about 3 times as thick as the ordinary ones and somewhat longer. 

 Near the median line and at a somewhat more dorsal level is the pair 

 of tentacles of similar form but somewhat stouter. A membranous 

 fold encircles the base of the gills within and surrounds the mouth. 

 The last three features were clearly made out on the incomplete 

 specimen only, not on the type. 



The operculum (figs. 21, 21a) is dorsal antl dextral. It has a slender, 

 ■wi'inkled, somewhat flattened stalk very slightly broader at the distal 

 end and without wings or membranous margins. The body of the 

 operculum is broadly egg-shaped, the basal f with soft non-chitinous 

 walls somewhat longitudinally folded, the distal f a smooth, bro\An 

 and firm chitinous dome with a narrow thickened double ring at the 

 base and the surface with traces of a rough calcareous incrustation. 

 In the type the stalk measures 4 mm. in length, .7 mm. in diameter, 

 and the body is 2.5 mm. long and 2 mm. thick. On the larger 

 specimen these measurements are respectively 4.5, .7, 2.5 and 2 mm. 



On the type the collar and thoracic membrane are closely folded 

 about the body from contact with the tube, but evidently fully agree 

 with the following description, based on their expanded state in the 

 larger cotype. The collar is produced directly forward for a distance 

 of 1 mm. from the prostomium for the entire width of the space be- 

 tween the ventral margins of the setigerous tubercles. At the sides 

 short round lobes are produced, but there are no other processes and 

 no clefts. The thoracic membrane extends as a broad modulating 

 fold from the first to the fifth torus inclusive, overlapping its fellow 

 medially, the lateral margin of the collar anteriorly, and the sixth torus 

 caudally. 



The first setigerous tubercle is included in the base of the thoracic 

 membrane; the others form, with the uncinigerous tori, freely project- 

 ing flaps which increase in size and prominence from the second cau- 

 dally, the last being especially large, nearly twice its predecessor, and 

 almost reaching the median line ventrally, while dorsally it partly 

 covers and conceals the, in this case, detached setae tuft. The body is 

 slightly flattened and tapers to the caudal end, where the nearly 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



terminal or slightly ventral anus occupies a notch. A thickened 

 dorsal shield plate, of a pink color and elongated elliptical form, occu- 

 pies about 26 somites. There are in all 7 setigerous thoracic and about 

 100 abdominal somites, though the number could not be 'accurately 

 determined, owing to an injury to the only complete specimen. 



The thoracic setse present the same general features as in V. pluri- 

 annulata, but are throughout more slender, delicate and acute, and 

 have narrower wings; the number of nearly or quite wingless ones is 

 also greater. Throughout the greater part of the abdominal region 

 l3ut two setsB (fig. 23) occur in each bundle. These are delicate, 

 colorless and of the same type as in V. pluriannulata, but have 

 narrower, less angulated and less curved blades, which in the case of 

 one is almost perfectly straight. 



The arrangement and form of the thoracic uncini (fig. 24) is also 

 A^ery close in the two species, the chief difference being that in this the 

 teeth are usually 15 in number and exhibit a more exact alignment 

 with the basal plate. Very often a minute tooth occurs on the basal 

 plate just below the large truncate tooth, and the overlapping of the 

 latter by the preceding tooth is often very marked. Abdominal 

 "uncini (fig. 25) differ still less, but the number of acute teeth is 11-13. 

 The caudal setae are all broken short off. 



Only a small piece of the tube is present. It is thicker than that of 

 Vermilia pluriannulata, measures 3 mm. in diameter at the mouth, 

 which is broken, and 2.5 mm. at the opposite end. The single flange 

 present extends only halfway around the tube on the free side, but is 

 very prominent and flaring. The surface of the tube is marked by 

 rough transverse lines of growth with a slightly spiral turn, and on 

 the flange section onl}^ by 5 rough longitudinal ribs. 



Suruga Bay, 3,707, 63-75 fms., 2 specimens with fragments of tubes. 



Vermilia pluriannulata sp. nov. (PL XII, figs. 26-32, 45; PL XI, fig. 19.) 



The single example from which this species is described measures: 

 Total length, 1 9 mm. ; branchiae, 4.5 mm. ; thorax, 3 mm., and diameter, 

 2.4 mm. The branchiae are in bad condition, but show 19 radioles on 

 each side, w^hich are shorter and have relatively longer and more slender 

 naked tips than in V. ctenophora. 



The operculum is developed from the left dorsal branchial radiole, 

 and the stalk and body each measure 2.5 mm. long. The former is 

 of nearly uniform diameter, very slightly depressed and marked with 

 numerous transverse wrinkles, as though in contraction. The body 

 (figs. 26, 27, 28) is broadly elliptical in face views, but in profile shows 

 a nearly parabolic ventral and a slightly convex dorsal outline. It is 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



divided into two nearly equal halves, the proximal of which is soft and 

 longitudinally wTinkled, with a delicate ehitinous enclosing membrane, 

 the distal very firm and ehitinous, marked by 6 very narrow dark 

 ehitinous annular thickenings which have a slightly excentric arrange- 

 ment, as a result of which they are much crowded dorsally and more 

 widely separated ventrally, leaving a nearly circular, slightly excentric, 

 convex, pale-colored terminal disk. Probably the entire distal half, 

 with the exception of this disk, was originally covered with a calcareous 

 coat; rough fragments of such an incrustation remain especially 

 on the ventral surface. 



The collar is higher and its lateral lobes more prolonged than in V. 

 ctenophora, but is otherwise similar. The thoracic membrane is also 

 similar, but much higher, fully equalling the dorsal distance between 

 the setae tufts. As in V. ctenophora its base ends at the fifth seta tuft, 

 but a free lobe projects much beyond this to the seventh. 



There are 7 setigerous thoracic and about 110 abdominal somites, 

 the posterior ones very short and much crowded. For most of its 

 length the body is nearly terete, but at the posterior end is slightly de- 

 pressed and tapering. The extreme caudal end is slightly curved ven- 

 trad, so that the anus looks downward and is somewhat covered by the 

 posterior margin of the dorsal plate. The latter is much thickened and 

 of an ovate form, covering about 25 somites with the Inroad end tow^ard 

 the head. 



The thoracic setse are numerous, except in the collar fascicle, and 

 form conspicuous pale yellow tufts. Those of the first fascicle are 

 mostly wingless or nearly so, the limbate ones being more slender 

 and with the wings narrower than usual in succeeding tufts. On the 

 succeeding thoracic somites the number of wingless setse is much re- 

 duced, and most of them (figs. 29 and 30) are stouter and distinctly 

 limbate on the convex side and, while differing considerably in length, 

 curvature and breadth of wing, they have the wings const antl}^ wider 

 and more dehcately striated than in V. ctenophora. 



With the exception of those near the caudal end each abdominal 

 fascicle bears but three colorless setse (fig. 31) with slender stems and 

 rather broad but exceedingly thin and delicate blades. The ends are 

 tapering and curved, with a distinct angle at the base of the convex 

 side, which is fringed for f of its length. These setse are always stouter, 

 more angulated and less distinctly fringed than those of Vermilia 

 ctenophora, and the 3 exhibit a closer similarity of form and size. A 

 number (about 25) of the segments at the caudal end bear tufts of 4 or 

 5 long, slender, colorless capillary setse of a quite different form (fig. 45). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 173 



They about equal or exceed the body diameter, are strongly directed 

 ventrad, and for the greater part of their length they are gently, and 

 near the tip more sharply, curved; and here are also flattened and 

 provided with a delicate wing, beyond which they taper to an acute 

 point. 



The tori of somite III contain about 90 uncini and more posterior 

 thoracic somites a much greater number. They are rather large trape- 

 zoidal plates (fig. 32), coarsely striated transversely. The pecti- 

 nate margin bears 14 or occasionally 13 acute teeth, of which the 4th, 

 5th and 6th are the largest, the upper ones becoming shorter and the 

 lower or cephalic ones especially more slender, the former more hooked, 

 and the latter straighter but more imbricated and appressed, and the 

 last 2 or 3 successively wider, flatter and more curved in the trans- 

 verse plane. The last tooth is much larger, tubular and truncate, and 

 in man}^ cases is more or less closely embraced by the preceding one. 

 The anterior abdominal tori bear about 20, the caudal ones as many as 

 50 uncini (fig. 19), which are only about h as long and much more deli- 

 cate than the thoracic ones which they resemble closely in form. 

 The apical offset from the plate is more prominent, the number of teeth 

 usually 13 or sometimes 12, and the truncate tooth is more closely 

 embraced by the one next to it than in the thoracic uncini. 



Fragments of the tube are 3.5 mm. in diameter at the mouth, 2 mm. 

 in diameter at a distance of 30 mm. from the mouth. Externally they are 

 marked by a series of wide flaring flanges, sometimes completely encir- 

 cling the tube, sometimes coalescent with it or incomplete on one side. 

 The surface is marked by a varying number of delicate but rough, 

 undulating parallel longitudinal ridges about .7 mm. apart, the number 

 being usually limited to about 6, confined to one, but not always the 

 same, side. On the free flaring portions of the flanges these ridges 

 become broken into flat spines, many of which are arranged trans- 

 versely. 



Suruga Bay, 3,713, 45 fms., type and portions of tube. 

 Pomatostegus latiscapus Marenzeller. 



Two specimens of a Pomatostegus agree closely with Marenzeller's 

 description of all parts except perhaps the collar, concerning which it 

 is simply stated that it is produced directly forward and has no lateral 

 incisions. In the Albatross specimens the collar has a very irregular 

 and ragged border, with a long median ventral process and somewhat 

 smaller dorso-lateral processes at the level of the setse; but no actual 

 incisions. The setse and operculum agree perfectly. In one specimen 

 the operculum bears 4, in the other 7 platforms, and in the latter 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



is completely enveloped in a growth of sponge which forms a spherical 

 mass fitting the lumen of the tube. 



Suruga Bay, 3.707, 63-75 fms.; 3.740, 65 fms. 

 Pomatoceros auritubis sp. nov. (PI. XII, figs. 33-37; PI. XI, fig. 20.) 



This species is known only from a single specimen without tube which 

 measures IS. 5 mm. in total length, of which the gills are 6 mm., the 

 operculum nearly 7 mm., and the very short thorax, without the collar, 

 2.5 mm. The branchiae have 26 radioles on each side, and each half 

 is rolled inward in a somewhat scroll-hke fashion clorsally and ven- 

 trally. The radioles are somewhat thick and are terminated by a short 

 filament free from barbs, the basal ones of which are about ^ the length 

 of the radioles, A tolerably well-developed web connects the basal f 

 of the radioles. 



The operculum (figs. 33, 34, 35) is developed from the dorsalmost 

 left radiole. Its stalk is broad and flat with prominent lateral wings 

 extending its entire length and increasing in wddth to the distal end, 

 where they terminate in narrow, pointed processes embracing the sides 

 of the opercular body. The stalk is attached excentrically to the dor- 

 sal side of the body of the operculum, which is bent strongly ventrad. 

 The body is hemispherical with somewhat flaring margins, and bears 

 by a short thick stalk on its distal face a membranous circular concave 

 plate with broad, thin, flaring margins, and a low, slightly rounded 

 central eminence. There are no spines, but two slight marks may be 

 the scars of attachment of a pair. The free margins of the disk are 

 chitinoid, l^ut there is but little indication of calcareous infiltration, 

 the body of the operculum having about the consistency of a rather 

 soft cartilage. 



The collar is high and prominent, about equalling the length of the 

 first two somites. Laterally it begins at the level of the first setse tufts 

 in a pair of lobes which are much overlapped by the dorsal membrane. 

 Its margin is much folded and serrated, finely on the dorsal, coarsely 

 on the ventral part, and in the median ventral region is produced for- 

 ward as a slender lanceolate lobe, but is nowhere deeply incised. The 

 thoracic membrane is low posteriorly, with a very delicate ventral fold, 

 but becomes high anteriorly wdth the dorso-anterior angle thrown 

 into a tuft of folds and overlapping the lateral collar lobes. 



The anterior pair of thoracic setse tufts are widely separated from the 

 others, embedded in the thoracic membrane and project forward. 

 Succeeding setigerous and uncinigerous tori of the thoracic region are 

 at first placed at a high level, but sink lower and lower until on the 

 last thoracic somite the latter are entirelv on the ventral side aiid much 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



inclined forwarcV and inward. The last two especially have their 

 ventral ends entirely free, and those of the last meet in the middle line. 

 The ventral plates, which are included in the area between the tori, 

 consequently form a nearly equilateral triangle with the apex caudad. 

 All of the abdominal somites are short and crowded, especially poste- 

 riorly, and no caudal plate or membrane is developed. The anus is 

 terminal. No pigment remains in the specimen. 



Somite I bears a compact slender tuft of pale, ghstening, lanceolate, 

 limbate setse. They differ considerably in length, width of wing and 

 curvature, but all have the margins very distinctly serrated. On the 

 other thoracic somites the setse are of the same form, but the wings 

 are generally shorter and broader, the bmidles less compact and more 

 spreading, and more distinctly arranged in tw^o rows, one of larger, 

 the other of smaller setse. Abdominal somites generally bear three 

 delicate colorless setae of the form shown in fig. 36. They are appa- 

 rently not trumpet-shaped, but spatulate, with one angle of the flat- 

 tened end prolonged obliquely into a conspicuous spine upon which 

 the dehcate teeth are continued. The stems are delicately longitudi- 

 nally striated. The posterior abdominal sette are all broken off. 



The thoracic uncinigerous lines begin at the seta tufts and are rather 

 long, that of somite II containing a few more than 200 uncini, which 

 decrease in size toward the ventral end. Abdominal tori contain 

 little more than | as many. The uncini are delicate pectinate plates. 

 Those of the thoracic somites (fig. 37) have quadrate plates bearing 

 13-15 strongly decurved, very acute teeth; the lowermost scoop-tooth 

 is broad, opens toward the uncinial plate and projects freely beyond 

 the lower margin of the latter. Abdominal uncini (fig. 20) are about 

 •i as large and have only 11 or 12 acute teeth besides the scoop-like 

 one, and the plate is triangular, with its lowermost angle produced into 

 a process about j as long as the lowermost tooth. 



Suruga Bay, 3,713, 45 fms., type only, without tube. 



The Spirorbes in the collection w^ere submitted for study to Miss 

 Katharine J. Bush, of the Yale University Museum, who has kindly 

 furnished the following descriptions: 

 Spirorbis argutas Bush sp. nov. 



Tube coiled in a low discoid sinistral form with large central cavity, 

 spreading around the base in a thin layer, the whorls radially enlarging 

 and ornamented by one large median keel which renders the surface 

 on each side slightly concave, all crossed by distinct transverse lines. 

 Smaller specimen about 1 mm. in diameter; larger^ about 1.5 mm. 




176 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan.. 



Fig. a. S. argutus, operculum 

 mounted in gh^cerine. 



Branchiae too much matted to determine their number. Operculum 

 (fig. a) a thin transparent elongated membranous bulb, flat on top 



and protected by a thin calcareous 

 disk slightly thickened in the center, 

 borne on a long, very slender pe- 

 duncle. 



Thorax with three fascicles of setae 

 and two rows of uncini on each side. 

 All the setae simple tapered blades 

 (fig. b), so small and delicate as not 

 to be clearly seen under a 7 objec- 

 tive, showing no serrations on the 

 edge of the blade even under y"^ oil immersion. Uncini very narrow, 

 hnear, the teeth appearing as but slight roughnesses on the surface, 

 even under the highest power. Abdominal uncini in the first series 

 or segment not appreciably smaller than those on the thorax; setae 

 not found. 



Two specimens on one of the red algae with the following (S. jo-ra- 

 minosus), at Station 3,730. in 34 fathoms, May 16, 1900. 

 Spirorbis foraminosus Bush sp. nov. 



Tube coiled in a similar manner 

 to that of S. argutus, but in the op- 

 posite direction, and larger, with the 

 surface ornamented with three distinct 

 carinae, the middle one the most 

 prominent, the surface on each side, 

 or the interspaces, slightly concave 

 and punctured by minute holes or 

 foramina, apparently caused by the 

 erosion of the thin epidermal layer; 

 the immature forms probably having 

 the entire surface crossed by numer- Fig- b. 

 ous prominent transverse lines. 



Branchiae, the number of which is not determined, are long and folded 

 about, partially covering or protecting the large operculum (figs, c 

 and d), which is in the form of an elongated (apparenth' stiffened b}- 

 a very thin deposit of Hme) cylinder-like broodpouch filled with eggs ; 

 the end protected by a calcareous disk with flaring edge and an inner 

 enlarged basal portion, showing the length of the ventral area attached 

 posteriorly to the secondary calcareous disk on the end of the opercu- 

 lum proper, which is formed of many longitudinal muscles spreading 



S. argutus, seta from 3d 

 thoracic somite. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



from a short peduncle, which is apparently differentiated from the 

 longitudinal ventral muscular layer of the body-wall and separated 

 from the branchial lobes. 



Thoracic setae simple tapered blades with but little color in 

 three fascicles on each side with two series of uncini. Those on the 

 collar (fig. e) somewhat broader and less regularly tapered than the 

 others; no odd ones found in the second or third bundles. Uncini 

 distinctly yellow or delicate horn-color with numerous fine teeth, 

 clearly seen under a 7 objective, those on the abdomen much shorter 

 and associated with a single similarly colored seta. 



Two specimens on one of the red algae with S. argutus, at Station 

 3,730, in 34 fathoms. May 16, 1900. 



Figs, c and d. S. foraminosus, front and rear 

 views of operculum, filled with eggs. 



Fig. c. S. foraminosus, 

 seta from collar fascicle. 



Spirorbis bellulus Bush sp. nov. 



Tube small, regularly coiled, dextral, with small central cavity, the 

 rounded whorls ornamented with three, sometimes four, unequal, 

 rounded threads, the one on the summit being more prominent than 

 the others. 



Specimens from 1 to 1.5 mm. in diameter. 



Branchiae peculiarly developed, probably abnormal, broad, thin, 

 flattened, with few pinnae. Operculum 

 (figs. / and g) on a very long peduncle, 

 with somewhat squarish calcareous plate 

 with deep erect thickened rim. 



Setae (fig. h) long and slender simple 

 blades, similar in all the fascicles which 

 are three on each side of the thorax 

 with two series of uncini, those on the 

 collar showing a few comparatively 

 12 



Figs. / and g. S. bellulus, 

 operculum, front and rear 

 views. 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



coarse serrations on edge, seen under a 7 objective, Uncini very 

 narrow, the teeth too fine to determine. Abdominal setse and uncini 

 not seen. 



- Steamer Albatross, May 8, 1900, at Station 

 3,707, off the coast of Japan, in 63-75 

 fathoms. Five specimens on fragments of 

 mollusks and pebbles. 



Spirorbis dorsatus Bush sp. nov. 



Tube small, regularly coiled, dextral, dif- 

 fering from the preceding (S. bellulus) in 

 having but one very prominent keel on the 

 middle of the whorls, rendering the tube 

 three-sided. A small nematode worm and 

 sand filled the tube, but no animal was 

 found. 



Three specimens were found with the pre- 

 ceding, at Station 3,707, in 63-75 fathoms. 

 As no animals were found, it is impossible to determine whether or 

 not these tubes may not be the young of S. foraminosus. 



Fig. h. S. bellulus, seta 

 from collar fascicle. 



Explanation of Plates XI and XIT. 



Plate XI, Fig. 1. — Sabella japonica. Slender lanceolate seta from ventral part 

 of the fascicle of V, X 480. 



Fig. 2. — Sabella japonica. Small imcinus from the dorsal part of the torus 

 of V, X 480. 



Figs. 3-6. — Potamilla acuminata. 



Fig. 3. — Slender seta from dorsal part of VI, X 335. 



Fig. 4. — Face view of a slender seta from XL, X 335. 



Fig. 5. — Two views of a spatulate and mucronate seta from ventral part 

 of VI, X 335. 



Fig. 6. — A pick-shaped uncinus from VI, showing a slender tip of about 

 the average length, X 600. 



Figs. 7-13. — Hypsicomus lyra. 



Fig. 7. — Limbate seta from the ventral series of the collar fascicle, X 480. 



Fig. 8. — Hooded seta from the dorsal series of the same, X 480. 



Fig. 9. — Limbate seta from the dorsal part of V, X 335. 



Fig. 10. — Plain paddle-shaped seta from the ventral part of V, X 335. 



Fig. 11. — Mucronate paddle-shaped seta from the same, X 335. 



Fig. 12. — Bilimbate pointed seta from a posterior abdominal somite, X 335. 



Fig. 13. — Pick-shaped uncinus from VI, X 480. 



Figs. 14, 15, 16. — Euchone alicaudata. 



Fig. 14. — Outline of slender seta from the dorsal part of V, X 480. 



Fig. 15. — One of the more symmetrical broadly bilimbate setse from the 

 ventral part of V, X 480. 



Fig. 16.— A crochet from VI, X 480. 



Fig. 17-18. — Protula geniculata. Abdominal and thoracic uncini respec- 

 tively, X 800. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Fig. 19. — Vermilia pluriannulata. An abdominal uncinus, X 600. 



Fig. 20. — Pomatoceros auritubis. An uncinus from the middle abdominal 



region, showing also the outlines of the front and back faces of the 



large gouge-shaped tooth, X 600. 



Plate XII, Figs. 21 to 25. — Vermilia ctenophora. 



Figs. 21, 21a. — Dorsal and lateral views respectively of operculum, X S. 



Fig. 22. — An average limbate seta from VI, X 250. 



Fig. 23. — The smallest and most curved seta from an abdominal pair, X 440. 



Fig. 24. — Uncinus from V, X 440. 



Fig. 25. — An uncinus from the middle abdominal region, X 440. 



Figs. 26 to 32. — Vermilia pluriannulata. 



Figs. 26, 27, and 28. — Dorsal, ventral and lateral views respectively of the 

 operculum, X 13. 



Figs. 29 and 30. — Long and short slender limbate setse from VI, X 250. 



Fig. 31. — The middle seta of the three on somite XXX, X 440. 



Fig. 32. — An uncinus from V, X 440. 



Figs. 33 to 37.- — Pomatoceros auritubis. 



Figs. 33, 34, 35. — Dorsal, ventral and lateral views respectively of the oper- 

 culum, X 8. 



Fig. 36.— Middle abdominal seta, X 440. 



Fig. 37.— Uncinus from IV, X 440. 



Fig. 38. — Protula geniculata. Seta from middle abdominal region, X 250. 



Fig. 39. — Sabella japonica. Uncinus from dorsal part of VI, X 360. 



Pig. 40. — Sabella japonica. Uncinus from ventral portion of a middle ab- 

 dominal uncinus, X 250. 



Fig. 41. — Potamella acuminata. Uncinus from VI, X 360. 



Fig. 42. — Hypsicomus lyra. Uncinus from VI, X 360. 



Fig. 43. — Euchone alicaudata. Uncinus from XXI, X 360. 



Fig. 44. — Laonome tridentata. Uncinus from XVI, X 360. 



Fig. 45. — Vermilia pluriannulata. End of a capillary caudal seta represent- 

 ing about \ of the exposed part, X 250. 




180 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



February 2. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Seventy-four persons present. 



The death of Karl Zittel, a correspondent, January 5, was announced. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported that the following communi- 

 cations had been received: 



"On the Germ Cells and the Embryology of Planaria simplissima 

 Curtis," by N. M. Stevens (January 23). 



"A Study of the Mammalian Genus Chilonycteris," by James A. G. 

 Kehn (January 30). 



Mr. H. Clay Bordex made a communication on the Moki Indians, 

 their habits and customs, with special reference to their religious 

 dances, (No abstract.) 



The following were accepted for publication : 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



A STUDY OF THE MAMMALIAN GENUS CHILONYCTERIS. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The following paper is the result of a study of an exceedingly inter- 

 esting series of one hundred and three specimens, of which twenty- 

 four w^ere preserved as skins, the remainder being in alcohol. Of this 

 representation forty-three were from the collection of the United 

 States National Museum, thirty-six from that of the Biological Survey, 

 eighteen from the American Museum of Natural History, and a smal 

 but exceedingly important series from the collection of the Academy. 



The author wishes to express his indebtedness to Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, 

 Jr., of the United States National Museum, Dr. C. Hart IMerriam, of 

 the Biological Survey, and Dr. J. A. Allen of the American Museum 

 of Natural History, for their kindness in securing and permitting the 

 use of specimens from the collections under their charge. 



CHILONYCTERIS Gray. 



1839. Chiloyiycteris Gray, Ann. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 4. September, 1839. 

 Tjrpe — Chilonycteris MacLeayii Gray. 



1840. Chilonycteris Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, I, p. 448. 

 1840. Lobostoma Gundlach, Archiv fiir Xaturgeschichte, VI, bd. I, p. 357. 



[Part.] 

 1843. Chilonycteris Wagner, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, IX, bd. I, p. 367. 



[Part.l 

 1843. Chilonycteris Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 20. 

 1843. Phyllodia Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 50. Type— P%^ 



lodia parnellii Gray. 



1850. Chilonycteris Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik. CI. Akad. 

 Wissenschaften, Miinchen, V, p. 179. [Part.] 



1851. Chilonycteris Gosse, Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p 326. 



1854. Chilonycteris Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I, p. 74. [Part.] 



1855. Chilonycteris Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 677. [Part.] 

 1861. Chilonycteris Gundlach, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 



Berlin. 1861, p. 154. 

 1861. Chilonycteris Tomes, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1861, p. 65. 

 1872. Chilonycteris Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 



1872, p. 359. 



1878. Chilonycteris Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 447. [Part.] 



1879. Chilonycteris Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 34. [Part.] 



1880. Chilonycteris Dobson, Rep. Brit. .\sso. Adv. Soc, 1880, p. 195. 

 1894. Chilonycteris J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, p. 247. 

 1902, Chilonycteris Miller, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 400. 



Generic Characters. — Crown of the head moderately elevated above 

 the face line; ears separate, lateral; rostrum moderately depressed; 

 nostrils superiorly with a more or less distinctly developed cutaneous 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ridge; lower jaw with two transverse chin-lappets. Skull with the 

 brain-case moderately elevated above the rostrum, and with basi- 

 cranial axis but slightlv raised from the facial axis. Dentition 



2=^2 1-1 2-2 -^3-3 



' 2—2' ^- 1—1' !''• 3—3' 3—3' 



Mistonj. — The genus CMlonycteris was founded by Gray in 1839 on 

 the Cuban C. madeayii, the describer believing the genus to be inter- 

 mediate between "the Saccopteri and the genus Mormoops," the latter 

 genus being considered by him a member of the tribe Noctilionina. 

 In 1840, Gundlach described the genus Lobostoma based on two species, 

 one of which is the Cuban representative of the genus Mormoops, the 

 other a synonym of CMlonycteris madeayii. The same year Wagner, 

 in the first supplementary volume of the Saugthiere, associated the genus 

 with Mormoops, and placed them in the tribe Brachyura of the Gymno- 

 rhina. During the year 1843 this genus received considerable atten- 

 tion from Wagner and Gray, the former of whom described C. per- 

 sonata, C. ruhiginosa and C. gymnonotus, all from Natterer's Brazilian 

 material. The last of these three species has since been removed to 

 Dermonotus {=Pteronotus auct.). Gray's work consisted of the de- 

 scription of the Haitian C. fuliginosa and Phyllodia parnellii from Ja- 

 maica, the rather different character of the latter form having impressed 

 him to such an extent that he created a genus for it. In comment- 

 ing on Phyllodia he says it is "& Noctilionine bat, with an apparent 

 nose-leaf, bearing a much greater resemblance to the Leaf-nosed Bats 

 (Phyllostomina) than even Mormoops, which, when he first described 

 it, Dr. Leach referred to that group." The Jamaican C. grisea was 

 the next form described, Gosse also giving us a figure. Burmeister, in 

 1854, in his system of Brazilian mammals, associated CMlonycteris 

 and Dysopes, and placed them in the Gymnura; while Wagner, in 1855, 

 placed it and Mormoops with the Noctilionine bats in the section 

 Brachyura of the Gymnorhina. The year 1861 witnessed the de- 

 scription of two more species of the genus, C. boothi from Cuba by Gund- 

 lach, and C. osbiirm by Tomes from Jamaica, the latter being Gray's 

 Phyllodia parnellii. Koch in 1862-63^ used the term Mormopida in 

 an indefinite way, apparently for this association of genera; while 

 Ciray, in 1866,^ used the term Mormopsina for Mormoops, and Phyllo- 

 diana for Phyllodia, CMlonycteris and Pteronotus. Peters, in his 

 synopsis of the Mormopes, published in 1872, associated CMlonycteris 

 with Mormops in the above group. Gill, in the same year,^ proposed 



^Jahrb. Ver. Naturkunde Nassau, Wiesbaden, XVII-XVIII, p. 358. 

 ^Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., XVIT, p. 93. 

 ^Arrangement of the Families of Mammals, p. 16. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



the family name Mormopidce. Dobson, in his historic catalogue, con- 

 sidered Chilonycteris and Mormops to comprise the group Mormopes, 

 which is coextensive with his subfamily Lobostomince. The same 

 author also describes the peculiar C. psilotis from an unkno\\Ti local- 

 ity. In 1892, Harrison Allen* raised Dobson's Lobostomince to family 

 rank, the Lobostomidoe. In 1902, Miller separated the Mexican type of 

 the rubiginosa group as C.mexicana, and distinguished a Porto Rican 

 representative of the boothi group as portoricensis. While treating 

 the genus Mormoops, the author, in the same year, considered Mor- 

 moops, Chilonycteris and Dermonotus representatives of a subfamily, 

 for which the name Mormoopince was used. 



General Relations. — ^The general relationship of the genus Chilonyc- 

 teris to the other members of the Mormoopince has already been con- 

 sidered.^ Of the species in the genus the boothi and rubiginosa groups 

 present the greatest superficial resemblance to Mormoops, particularly 

 in the broad flattened head and the general form of the chin-lappets; 

 but that these resemblances are not supported by other characters is 

 evident on studying the skulls and structure of the ears and head 

 appendages. On the other hand, the relationship of C. psilotis with 

 Dermonotus is evident from the structure of the skuU, while the rubigi- 

 nosa group is seen to possess a skull having the same general charac- 

 teristics. The arrangement of species in the following portion of this 

 paper is in accordance with the general characters exhibited by the 

 skull, running from the slender arched type of C. macleayii to the 

 heavy short depressed skull of C. psilotis. There are several objections 

 to such an arrangement, but there appears to be no good evidence to 

 support any other classification. Dobson's psilotis is no doubt the 

 most aberrant member of the genus,' and, while in some tooth charac- 

 ters it appears to differ from all the other species, and also from Der- 

 monotus, its position in the genus is easily found by the shape of the 

 skull. Wagner's personata 1 have not seen, and probably it is closer to 

 psilotis than my treatment would lead one to suppose. This point 

 can, of coiu-se, only be settled by the examination of the specimens in 

 the Vienna and Berlin Museums, or by the acquisition of further 

 material. 



Remarks. — Probably the most striking fact noticed on examining a 

 large series of specimens of this genus is the presence of two well- 

 marked color phases, one rufous, the other dark brown. This di- 

 chromatism is evident in every form of which an extensive series is 



*Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XV, p. 437. 



5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 161. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF - [Feb., 



available. The two extremes are sometimes connected by a series of 

 intermediate individuals possessing to a greater or less degree the dull 

 rather purplish-brown of one type and the rich golden rufous or warm 

 red-brown of the other. This dichromatic coloration is also found in 

 Mormoops and Dermonotus. 



Key to the Forms. 



a. — ^^External margin of the ear with a distinct notch at or slightly 

 below the middle. 

 h. — Internal margin of the ear basally thickened and bearing a 

 distinct angulate notch. 

 c. — External margin of the ear abruptly convex at the com- 

 mencement of its lower third forming an acute-angu- 

 late notch; forearm 35-44.5 mm. 

 d. — Forearm less than 43 mm. in length; cutaneous ridge 

 surmoimting the superior margin of the nostrils 

 without a deep median emargination. 

 €. — Length of head, body and tail considerably over 

 56 mm. ; calcaneum not less, usually much 

 more, than 18 mm. in length. 

 /. — Skull rather elongate and slender; greatest 

 zygomatic width usually less than half the 

 total length of the skull ; rostrum and brain- 

 case about equal in length, 



macleayii Gray.* 



ff. — Skull abbreviate; rostrum inflated; greatest 



zygomatic width more than half the total 



length of the skull; rostrum not as long as 



the brain-case, . . m. inflata n. subsp. 



ee. — Length of head, body and tail about 56 mm.; 



calcaneum not over 16 mm. in length, 



m. fuliginosa (Gray). 

 dd. — Forearm 43 mm. or more in length; cutaneous ridge 

 surmounting the superior margin of the nostrils with a 

 deep median emargination, . . m. grisea (Gosse). 

 cc. — External margin of the ear abruptly convex at the com- 

 mencement of its lower third, forming a rectangulate 

 notch; forearm 45.7 mm., . . . personata Wagner. 

 bh. — Internal margin of the ear not basally thickened and without 

 a distinct angulate notch, 

 c. — Nose wdth a comparatively high erect tubercle; tragus 

 apically obtuse-angulate with a large accessory lobe; 

 skull wath the rostrum slender. 

 d. — First low^er premolar in contact with third, the second 

 crowded out of the toothrow on the lingual side; 

 skull with the rostrum high ; foot rather slender, 



parnellii (Gray). 



* The females of this form closely approacli ???. inflata, but the males are quite 

 distinct. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



dd. — First lower premolar not in contact with tliird, the 

 second in the toothrow though usually displaced 

 toward the lingual side; skull wdth rostrum of 

 moderate height; foot rather robust. 

 e. — Size large, total length 83-85 mm. ; skull with the 

 rostrum rather slender, brain-case slightly de- 

 pressed, p. boothii (Gundlach). 



ce.— Size rather small, total length 74-79 mm. ; skull 

 with the rostrum somewhat bullate, brain-case 

 evenly arched transversely, 



p. portoricensis (Miller). 

 cc. — Nose with a low rounded tubercle ; skull with the rostrum 

 comparatively short and broad; tragus apically pro- 

 duced, with a slight accessory lobe. 

 d. — Size very large; forearm not less than 59 mm. in 

 length; head and body not less than 72 mm., 



ruhiginosa Wagner. 

 dd. — Size medium; forearm not more than 59 mm. in 

 length ; head and body not more than 63 mm., 



r. mexicana (Miller). 



aa.— External margin of the ear without a distinct notch at or slightly 



below the middle, psilotis Dobson. 



Chilonycteris macleayii Gray. 



1839. Chilonycteris MacLeayii Gray, Ann. Nat. Hist., IV, p. 5, PI. 1, fig. 2. 

 September, 1839. [Cuba.] 



1840. Ch[ilonycteris] MacLeayii Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, I, 

 p. 448. [Cuba.] 



1840. [Lobostoma] quadrtdens Gundlach, Archiv fur Naturgeschichte, VI, 



bd. I, p. 357. [Cuba.] 

 1850. Ch[ilonycteris] Mac-Leayii Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik. 



CI. Akad. Wissenschaften, Mtinchen, V, p. 186. [No locality.] 

 1855. Ch[ilomjcteris] MacLeayii Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, 



p. 678. [Cuba.] 

 1855. Ch[iIonycteris] quadridens Wagner, Suppl. Schreber s Saugthiere, V, 



p. 678. [Cuba.] , , ^^^. 



1872. Chilonycteris MacLeayii Peters, Monatsber. K Preuss. Akad. \\ is- 

 sensch. Berlin. 1872, p. 360. [Part.] [Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.] 



1873. Chilonycteris Mac-Leayi Gundlach, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat , I, 

 cuad. 3, p. 244. [Cuba.] 



1878. Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Bnt. Mus., p. 449. 



[Part.] [Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa Gray); Jamaica 



(type of grisea Gosse).] 

 1904'. Chilonycteris macleayii Miller, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 342. 



[Guanajay and Baracoa, Cuba.] 



Type Locality. — Cuba. 



Distribution.— C\\h&, apparently covering the greater part of the 

 island, specimens from such extremes as Baracoa and Guanajay having 

 been examined. Gundlach (L c), in speaking of this species, says: 

 Very common, they frequent the houses in the country; observed also 

 in caves, where they sleep in clusters. 



General Characters.— Size rather small (for the genus) ; ears elongate, 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



sublanceolate, internal margin with a distinct submedian shoulder, 

 external margin with a prominent submedian dentiform shoulder ; nos- 

 trils surmounted by a sinuate ridge bearing a series of small pads, 

 nostrils flanked by a subacute protuberance. 



Head. — Moderately elongate; rostrum considerably depressed. Ears 

 elongate, sublanceolate, the lower margin extending considerably 

 forward but failing to reach the angle of the mouth; internal margin 

 of the ear attached to the head anterior to the small eye, internal ridge 

 distinct, arcuate, passing by a moderately rounded shoulder into the 

 internal margin of the ear, distal two-thirds of the internal margin of 

 the ear straight, bearing several distinct spiniform points superior to 

 the shoulder of the internal ridge ; external margin and lower margin 

 ample, bearing a distinct acute notch at a point about opposite to the 

 shoulder of the internal ridge, distal portion of the external margin 

 straight, except the extreme apical portion which is gently concave; 

 apex subfalcate, rounded. Tragus subelliptical ; external margin with 

 a slight nodular shoulder; internal margin bearing a subapical whorl- 

 like accessory flap, which lies in a plane at right angles to the body of 

 the tragus; apex rather narrowly rounded. Nostrils ovate, bordered 

 by a low ridge, superior margin slightly depressed centrally and 

 bearing six distinct sucker-like tubercles,' lateral margins flanked by 

 an erect subdentiform flap. Labial chin-lappet transverse, forming 

 broadly rounded lobes laterally, the median portion of the inferior mar- 

 gin broadly and evenly concave, median portion of the lappet strongly 

 papillose and margined superiorly by a small rounded nonpapillose 

 area. Posterior chin-lappet slight, adpressed, rounded and consisting 

 only of a fold of skin. 



Limbs. — Forearm moderately long, rather strongly bowed in the 

 proximal half; third digit rather short. Femora, tibiae and feet rather 

 slender; calcaneum very long, half again as long as the tibiae. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes rather heavy and leathery ; trans- 

 verse nerves very regularly disposed in the endopatagium and meso- 

 patagium; propatagium large, the anterior border totally free; uropa- 

 tagium very large, extending beyond the enclosed portion of tail a 

 distance about equal to the same. Fur of moderate length, soft and 

 silky; throat and chin with the fur floccose; endopatagium partially 

 and slightly furred above ; upper hp and muzzle with the hair bristle- 

 like in character. 



Color. ^ — Rufous phase : above mars-brown suffused on the back and 



'' This character is subject to more or less variation, as in some specimens the 

 individual character of each protuberance is lost. 

 ^ From skins. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



scapular region with burnt-umber, a slight silvering of pale hairs scat- 

 tered irregularh' ; beneath uniform fawn color. Brown phase: above 

 sepia, around the head and neck paler as there the ecru under color is 

 very apparent; below pale Isabella color, the hair seal-brown basally. 

 Membranes ranging from vandyke-brown to almost pure black in color. 



Skull. — Rather fragile in character; elongate, zygomata not mark- 

 edly expanded ; brain-case considerably elevated above the moderately 

 depressed rostrum; foramen magnum placed slightly above the basi- 

 cranial axis. Brain-case subglobose, crests but slightly marked; audi- 

 tory bullae considerably inflated, of medium size. Rostrum rather 

 low, of moderate length, evenly expanded; nasal depression consid- 

 erably excavated and visibly compressed; palate subequal in wddth, 

 moderately excavated, posterior projection extending but little 

 beyond the major portion, the cleft narrowly rounded; pterygoids 

 rather strongly divergent. Mandible with the ramus rather strong, 

 ascending ramus low and comparatively weak; condyle small; coro- 

 noid process very weak and not elevated above the condyle ; angle of 

 the mandible strongly developed and directed laterally, forming a pro- 

 nounced subfalciform process. Skulls of females are considerably 

 smaller, and have the rostral portion much more buUate than in the 

 males, in this respect approaching the race inflata, from wMch they 

 can, however, be separated by the slenderer skull and narrow palate. 



Teeth. — Central pair of upper incisors much larger than the lateral 

 pair, broad, cutting edge bilobate; lateral incisors with a single acute 

 posteriorly placed cusp; upper canines conoid, very slightly diverging; 

 first upper premolar subreniform in basal outline, the posterior portion 

 lying against the internal border of the second premolar smaller than 

 the anterior portion ; second upper premolar with a large hastate pos- 

 terior cusp, basal outline subpentagonous ; first and second upper molars 

 subquadrate, protocone and hypocone developed as low pointed cusps; 

 third upper molar strongly transverse, protocone developed as a jagged 

 elevation, para-hypoconoid ridge N-shaped. Lower incisors crowded, 

 equal in size, trilobate; canines slender; first lower premolar uni- 

 cuspidate, the labial face considerably excavated; second lower pre- 

 molar very minute and crowded between the first and third and dis- 

 placed toward the lingual face; third lower premolar unicuspidate, 

 slightly more acute than the first premolar; molars equal in size. 



Measurements. — Average of series f Total length [5] 61 mm. (59-65) ; 



^ Numbers in brackets designate the number of specimens examined for that 

 particular measurement. This is necessitated by the condition of material, as 

 some alcohohc specimens are shriveled to sucli an extent that but few measure- 

 ments can be taken. Figures in parentheses have their usual significance as 

 extremes. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



length of head and body [2] 41.2 (41.5-44); head [3] 16.4 (15.8-17); 

 ear [3] 13.6 (12-16) ; tragus [3] 4.8 (4.5-5) ; forearm [10] 39 (37.5-41.5) ; 

 thumb [3] 6.5 (6-7) ; third digit [3] 60.6 (60-62) ; tibia [10] 14.6 (12-16) ; 

 calcaneum [2] 22.7 (22.5-23) ; foot [10] 8.8 (8-9.2) ; tail [3] 19.3 (18-20). 

 Total length of skull [6] 15.4 mm. (14.1-16.1); greatest zygomatic 

 width [7] 7.7 (7.5-8) ; interorbital width [7] 3.2 (3-3.5) ; height at base 

 of second premolar [7] 3.3 (3-3.5); height of brain-case [6] 6.1 (6-6.3); 

 width of palatal constriction [7] 1.4 (1.3-1.5); length of palate [7] 6.5 

 (6-7); width of palate including teeth [7] 5.7 (5.3-6); greatest length 

 of mandible [7] 11.1 (10-11.6). 



Remarks. — This species is not liable to be confused with the other 

 species of the genus, but its three subspecies are all, with the possible 

 exception of C. m. grisea, quite closely related. From madeayii grisea 

 the true madeayii may be separated by its smaller size and the shape 

 of the superior margin of the nostrils; from m. juliginosa the larger 

 size and heavier build will distinguish it; from vi. inflata the shape of 

 the rostral portion of the skull, as well as the general slenderer 

 character of the palate and zygomata, will serve to differentiate it. 



The most striking variation exhibited by this species is the occur- 

 rence of two forms, one considerably smaller than the other. This 

 fact was first noticed by Miller (l. c), and, as he states, it appears to 

 be independent of age or sex. The series studied, while a picked lot 

 from the series he examined, do not give the extreme dimensions he 

 cites, but the two forms can very readily be distinguished. Another 

 very striking variation is in the shape of the skull, and is apparently 

 sexual. The skulls of the females examined are shorter and more in- 

 flated in the rostral portion than those of the males. In this respect 

 they approach the Porto Rican m. inflata, but the skull of that form 

 appears, in both sexes, to be more inflated and robust proportionally 

 than the smaller females of madeayii. 



Specimens Examined. — Eleven alcoholic specimens and seven skins : 

 Guanajay, Pinar del Rio, Cuba. (U. S. N. M.) [6.] 

 Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba. (U. S. N. M.) [4.] 

 Eight miles east of Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba. (U. S. N. M.) [8.] 

 Chilonyoteris madeayii fuliginosa (Gray). 



1843. Chilonycteris fuliginosa Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 20. 



[Haiti.] 

 1855. Ch[ilonyderis] fuliginosa Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Siiugthiere, V, 



p. 679. [Haiti.] 

 1872. Chilonycteris MacLeayii Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 



Berlin, 1872, p. 360. [Part.] [Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.] 

 1878. Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 449. 

 [Part.] [Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa Gray); Jamaica 

 (type of grisea Gosse).] 



Type Locality. — Port au Prince, Haiti. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Distribution. — The island of Haiti and San Domingo. No specimens 

 possessing exact data available. 



General Characters. — Allied to the Cuban macleayii but the size 

 smallest in the genus, skull smaller than in macleayii and compara- 

 tively slender, and calcanea shorter. 



Head. — As in C. macleayii. 



Limbs. — Except for the generally smaller size of the forearm and 

 tibia, no difference is noted from the same portions of macleayii. The 

 calcaneum is distinctly shorter, not at all or but slightly exceeding 

 the tibia in length. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in macleayii. 



Color. — The available alcoholic specimens have been preserved for 

 quite a long time and the coloration exhibited by them may be some- 

 what abnormal. General color above cinnamon-rufous; below seal- 

 brown; volar membranes prout's-brown ; ears wood-brown. The 

 single skin available is mummified and has been in a liquid preserva- 

 tive at some time ; the colors are as follows : above pale mars-brown ; 

 below isabelline, becoming ecru-drab on the throat; membranes drab. 



Skull. — Similar to C. macleayii but smaller, the males with the whole 

 form comparatively more robust than in the same sex of macleayii. 

 The singular abbreviate skull of the females of macleayii approaches 

 m. fuliginosa very much, but the latter has a slenderer rostrum and 

 more compressed zygomata. One specimen (5072, A. N. S. P.) bears 

 a comparatively high sagittal crest. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in C. macleayii with the following exceptions : 

 first upper premolar simpler in outline, more ovate than reniform; 

 second upper premolar more transverse in outline than pentagonal, 

 the anterior shoulder not as strongly developed as in macleayii. 



Measurements. — Average of series: Total length [1] 56.2 mm. ; length 

 of head and body [3] 40.5 (39.5-41) ; head [1] 17.1 ; ear [2] 13.6 (13.2-14) ; 

 tragus [2] 4.5; forearm [5] 37.7 (35-40); thumb [4] 6.2 (6-7); third 

 digit [5] 62.2 (58.5-68); tibia [5] 15.1 (14.5-16); calcaneum [2] 15 

 (14-16) ; foot [5] 8.3 (8.9) ; tail [5] 18.8 (17-20). 



Total length of skull [2] 14.1 (14-14.3) ; greatest zygomatic width [1] 

 7.2 ; interorbital width [3] 3 ; height at base of second premolar [3] 3 ; 

 height of brain-case [2] 6 ; width of palatal constriction [2] 1 .4 ; length of 

 palate [2] 6.1 (6-6.2); width of palate including teeth [3] 5.1 (5-5.2); 

 greatest length of mandible [2] 10.5 (10-11). 



Remarks. — This form of macleayii, while not at all sharply defined, 

 can be recognized by the unusually small size, short calcaneum and 

 rather different skull. In a number of characters which reach their 

 extremes in macleayii and m. inflata, m. fuliginosa is intermediate, as 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



might be expected from the distribution of these forms ; but that the 

 three types are entitled to recognition will generally be admitted on 

 examining representatives of the several races. 



Specimens Examined. — Five, one skin and four alcoholic specimens: 



Haiti. (A. M. N. H.) [1.] 



San Domingo. (A. N. S. P.) [4.] 



Chilonycteris macleayii inflata n. subsp. 



1878. Chilonycteris Mac-Leayi Gundlach (not of Gray), Anales Soc. Espan. 

 Hist. Nat., VII, cuad. I, p. 140. [Bayamon and Mayaguez, Porto Rico.] 



Type. — Adult cJ^ ; Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Yiejo, Porto Rico. 

 No. 6,234, A. N. S. Phila. March 19, 1900. Collected by Drs. C. W. 

 Richmond and L. Stejneger. 



Distribution. — Apparently the whole island of Porto Rico, specimens 

 from a cave near Pueblo Viejo and Mayaguez having been examined. 



General Characters. — ^This form is distinguished from true macleayii 

 by the short and bullate rostrum of the skull and the rather expanded 

 zygomata. 



Head, limbs and fur very much as in macleayii, l3ut the distal half of 

 the ear is shorter and broader, the apex more blunt, and not so falcate, 

 the external margin being straighter. 



Color. — Rufous phase i^" above rather dark cinnamon; below wood- 

 brown, the fur basally mummy-l^rown. Brown phase: above bistre, 

 the short hair on the nape and sides of the neck silvery-wliite, the latter 

 also apparent in the general bistre tint, caused by scattered unicolored 

 hairs and also by the silver}^ median bands of the darker hairs ; below 

 with the hair basally bistre, apically drab, becoming wood-brown on 

 the chin and throat and whitish on the abdomen. Membranes dull 

 blackish. One specimen examined appears to be intermediate between 

 the two phases. 



Skull. — Similar to that of C. macleayii, but with the rostrum shorter 

 and broader, the brain-case higher and the zygomata more expanded. 

 The rostrum is considerably shorter than the brain-case in length and 

 the lateral margins are rather strongly and evenly arcuate ; brain-case 

 strongly inflated and elevated above the rostrum a distance more than 

 equal to the height of the rostrum at the anterior margin of the orbits. 

 Palate considerably broader than in macleayii. The skulls of females 

 of rnacleayii are, of course, very similar to the males of m. inflata in 

 general appearance, but they lack the extreme characters of the rostrum 

 and the high brain-case is pecuhar to inflata. The skull of the female 

 of inflata, how^ever, is practically indistinguishable from that of 

 macleayii, though the latter is somewhat smaller. 



'" Type in this phase. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Teeth. — Similar to maclcayii but for the following exceptions : median 

 upper incisors very broad and very distinctly bilobate ; first upper pre- 

 molar small and low, considerably crowded; second lower premolar 

 shorter and broader, the basal outline more rounded and not so oblong 

 as in macleayii. 



Measurements. — Type: Total length 63 mm.; head and body 45.5; 

 head 17.3; ear 12.5; tragus 4.S; forearm 38.5; thumb 7; third digit 

 63.5; tibia 16.5; calcaneum 18; foot 8.5; tail 18. Average of series: 

 Total length [3] 64.3 (61.5-68.5) ; head and body [5] 48.7 (41-52) ; head 

 [2] 16.9 (16.5-17.3); ear [2] 12.2 (12-12.5); tragus [2] 4.5 (4.3-4.8) 

 forearm [6] 38.7 (38-40); thumb [2] 7; third digit [2] 62.2 (61-63.5) 

 tibia [5] 15.6 (15-16.5) ; calcaneum [2] 19.7 (18-20.5) ; foot [6] 8.4 (8-9) 

 tail [4] 19.6 (17-23). 



Type skull: Total length 15.3 mm.; interorbital width 3.5; height 

 at base of second premolar 3.5 ; height of brain-case 6.4 ; width of pala- 

 tal constriction 1.5; length of palate 6; width of palate including teeth 

 5.5; greatest length of mandible 11. Average of series of skulls : Total 

 length [5] 14.8 (14.2-15.3); greatest zygomatic width [3] 8 (7.9-8); 

 interorbital width [5] 3.2 (3-3.5) ; height at base of second premolar [5] 

 3.3 (3.1-3.5) ; height of brain-case [5] 6.4 (6.1-7) ; width of palatal con- 

 striction [5] 1.4 (1.3-1.5); length of palate from anterior foramina [5] 

 6.1 (6-6.4) ; width of palate including teeth [5] 5.3 (5.1-5.5) ; length of 

 mandible [5] 10.8 (10.6-11.1). 



Remarks. — The foregoing description presents the differential char- 

 acters of inflata so that no general remarks are necessary. The phyla 

 represented by m. fuliginosa and m. infiata reaches its extreme type in 

 the latter race, the most apparent diagnostic character of which is the 

 inflated rostrum. 



Specimens Examined. — Two alcoholics and four skins : 



Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Viejo, Porto Rico. (A. N. S. P. and 

 U. S. N. M.) [5.] 



Mayaguez, Porto Rico. (U. S. N. M.) [1.] 



Chilonycteris macleayii grisea (Gosse). 



1851. Chilonycteris grisea Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p. 326, 



PL VI, fig. 1. [Phoenix Park, Jamaica.] 

 1861. Chilomjcieris quadridens Tomes, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1861, p. 65. 



[Oxford Cave, Jamaica.] 

 1872. Chilonycteris MacLeayi Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 



Berlin, 1872, p. 360. (Part.) [Cuba; Jamaica; Haiti.] 

 1878. Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 449, PI. 



XXIII, fig. 1. (Part.) [Cuba; Port au Prince, Haiti (type of fuliginosa 



Gray) ; Jamaica (type of grisea Gosse).] 

 1880. Chilonycteris macleayi Dobson (not of Gray), Rep. Brit. Asso. Adv. 



Sci., 1880, p. 195. [Environs of Kingston, Jamaica.] 



Type Locality.— Vhcemx Park, St. Ann Parish, Jamaica. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Distribution. — The island of Jamaica, specimens having been 

 recorded from the type locality, Kingston and Oxford Cave, while 

 other individuals have been examined from Lucea, Hanover Parish, 

 in the extreme northwestern part of the island. 



General Characters. — Size quite large, largest of the madeayii group; 

 nostrils with the superior margin deeply and squarely emarginate cen- 

 trally. 



Head. — Similar to C macleayii with the following exceptions: Nos- 

 trils with the superior margins bearing two low quadrate peg-like pro- 

 jections, between which is a deep emargination completely separating 

 them; process flanking the nostrils elongate, sublanceolate in char- 

 acter. Dobson's figure {vide supra) represents these characters very 

 clearly and was no doubt taken from the type specimen presented 

 by Gosse, as that was the only Jamaican specimen studied by him. 



Limbs. — Similar in character to C. macleayii, but, of course, larger, 

 though the proportions are practically the same. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in macleayii, but the free margin of the 

 uropatagium very curiously tucked and thickened by short longitudinal 

 thickenings, a character well exhibited in Gosse's original plate of the 

 species. 



Color. ^^ — Rufous phase: above ferruginous; below chestnut, becom- 

 ing pale on the chin; ears and cephalic processes vinaceous-cinnamon, 

 the former becoming pale drab apically; volar membranes mummy- 

 brown. Brown phase: above bistre, sprinkled and suffused with sil- 

 very-white as in the brown phase of the other races of the macleayii 

 group; beneath clove-brown; membranes as in the rufous phase. 



Skull. — Elongate, somewhat compressed; rostrum slenderer, com- 

 paratively, than in any of the other forms of the macleayii group; 

 brain-case moderately inflated. 



Teeth. — As in C. macleayii, except for the first lower premolar which 

 is broader, with the external margin more rounded than in the typical 

 form. 



Measurements. — Average of series: Total length [4] 68.7 (66.5-74); 

 head and body [4] 45.4 (44.5-49) ; head [2] 18.3 (18.2-18.5) ; ear [4] 15.2 

 (14-16.3); tragus [4] 5.6 (5-6.5); forearm [4] 43.8 (43-44.5); thumb 

 [4] 7.5 (7-8); third digit [4] 73.7 (72.5-75); tibia [4] 16.3 (16-17); 

 calcaneum [4] 23 (20-26) ; foot [4] 9.7 (9.5-10) ; tail [4] 23.2 (22-25). 



Total length of skull [2] 16.9 (16.8-17); greatest zygomatic width 

 [2] 8 (8-8.1); interorbital space [2] 3.5; height of second premolar [2] 

 3.5 (3.5-3.6) ; height of brain-case [1] 6.3; width of palatal constriction 



^' From alcohol. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



[2] 1.5 (1.5-1.6); length of palate from anterior foramina [2] 7; width 

 of palate including teeth [3] 6; greatest length of mandible [2] 12 

 (11.9-12.1). 



Remarks. — The Jamaican form of the macleayii group is so very dis- 

 tinct from the other associated races that no general summary is neces- 

 sary. 



Specimens Examined. — Four alcoholic specimens: Lucea, Jamaica. 

 (A. M. N. H.) 



Chilonycteris personata Wagner. 



1843. Chilonycteris personata Wagner, Archiv fiir Naturgeschiclitc, IX, bd. I, 



p. 367. [Matto Grosso.] 

 1850. Chilonycteris personata Wagner, Abhandlungen Matliem.-Physik. CI. 



Akad. Wissenschaften, Miinchen, V, p. 185. [St. Vincent jNIatto Grosso.] 



1854. Chilonycteris personata Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens I, p. 76. [St. 

 Vincent, Matto Grosso.] 



1855. Ch[iIonycieris] personata Wagner, Suppl. Rchreber's Saugthiere, V, 

 p. 680. [Matto Grosso.] 



1872. Chilonycteris personata Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wis- 

 sensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360 [Brazil; Venezuela; Guatemala.] 



1878. Chilonycteris persona'a Dobson, Catal. Cliiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 451. 

 [Guatemala; Venezuela; Matto Grosso, Brazil.] 



1879. Chilonycteris personata Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35. 

 [Guatemala; Venezuela; Brazil.] 



Type Locality. — Matto Grosso, Brazil. As Wagner afterward par- 

 ticularly mentioned St. Vincent, Matto Grosso, it is quite probable that 

 it was the exact locality from which the type was obtained. 



Distribution. — This species has a very extensive distribution, but as 

 specimens appear to be extremely rare and none are now at hand, the 

 records mentioned above constitute the only information. It will be 

 seen to range from Matto Grosso, Brazil, to Guatemala, and eastward 

 to Venezuela. 



Description. — As no specimens have been examined in this connec- 

 tion, Wagner's description and notes in the Miinchen Ahhandlungen 

 {vide supra) are here given : 



"Die Beschaffenheit der Ohren, der Klappe, der Nase, des Lippen- 

 besatzes imd der Schneidezahne ist ganz dieselbe wie bei Ch. fjymno- 

 notus.^"^ Die Sporen sind ebenfalls, aber nur sehr wenig, an den imtern 

 Theil des Schienbeins geheftet, und auch die Fliigel setzen sich etwas 

 tiefer an. Der Hauptunterschied liegt in der Behaarung, indem der 

 Riicken bei dieser Art eben so behaart ist als der iibrige Korper. Die 

 Farbe des Pelzes kann nicht mit Sicherheit angegeben werden, da das 

 einzige Exemplar in Brauntwein aufbewahrt ist. Sie scheint oben 

 schwarz oder dunkelbraun zu seyn, unten lichtbraun, indem hicr die 

 Haarspitzen weit heller sind. Mit Ch. ruhiginosa kann der verschied- 



'■-' This is Dermonotus fulvus. 

 13 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



enen Farbung und der geringeren Grosse wegen keine Verwechslung 

 vor sich gehen. 



Korper 2" V" Schwanz 0" IV" 



Hohe 1 8^ FreierTheildesselben.. 3 



Kopf 7 Schenkelflughaut 1 1 



Ohrlange 6 Yorderarm 1 8 



Ohrbreite 4 Schienbein 7h 



Sporen 10 Flugweite ohngefahr.... 10 6 



"Das beschriebene Exemplar, ein Mannchen, riihrt von St. A'inconte 

 ill der Provinz Mato grosso her. Steht mit Ch. Mac-Leayii in naher 

 A'erwandtschaf t ; wenn jedoch, wie es alien Anschein hat, Gundlach's 

 Lobostoma quadridens mit der Gray'schen Art identisch ist, so ist von 

 ihren die unserige schon deshalb spezifisch verschieden, weil zwar die 

 untere Hiilfte des Vorderrandes des Ohrs ebenfalls erweitert ist (was 

 mit zu den generischen Kennzeichen zu gehoren scheint), aber die Er- 

 weiteriing bildet nicht 4 Zahnchen, sondern ist wie bei voriger Art 

 ganzrandig." 



Chilonycteris parnellii (Gray). 



1843. Phyllodia Parnellii Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1S43, p. 50. 

 [Jamaica.] 



1855. Ch[ilonycteris] Parnellii Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saiigthiere V, 

 p. 680. [Jamaica.] 



1861. Chilonycteris oshurni Tomes, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1861, p. 66, 

 PI. XIII. [Sportsman's Cave, Jamaica.] 



1865. Chilonycteris sp. Osborn. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1865, p. 68. [Sports- 

 man's Hall Cave; Oxford Cave, Manchester, Jamaica.] 



1865. Chilonycteris oshurni Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London 1865, p. 68, 

 footnote. 



1866. Phyllodia Parnellii Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 

 Berlin, 1866, p. 678. [No locality.] 



1872. Chilonycteris Parnellii Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wis- 

 sensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360. (Part.) [Cuba; Jamaica.] 



1878. Chilonycteris parnellii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit Mus., p. 452. 

 [Jamaica.] 



1902. Chilonycteris parnellii Miller, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 401. 



Type Locality. — Jamaica. 



Distribution. — Apparently restricted to the island of Jamaica, the 

 only definite records being from the Sportsman's Hall and Oxford Cave, 

 while a series of specimens examined in this connection are from Liicea, 

 Hanover Parish. Osbm-n (I.e.) has given us an interesting account of 

 the species in captivity. 



General Characters. — Size rather large; ears large, subacute; the in- 

 ternal margin arcuate, the external margin with a distinct submedian 

 shoulder ; tragus rounded with a distinct accessory lobe ; nostrils supe- 

 riorly margined by a slight cutaneous ridge; nose bearing; a distinct 

 high fleshy protuberance. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Head. — Rather elongate, depressed; rostrum rather broad. Ears 

 large, rather broad, the lower flap broad and extending forward almost 

 to the corner of the mouth; internal margin evenly arcuate, attached 

 to the head above the posterior corner of the small eye, internal ridge 

 distinct, the inferior lobe truncate ; external margin of the ear basaliy 

 arcuate, a distinct though slight submedian shoulder, distal half faintly 

 arcuate with a subapical concavity which throws into relief the rather 

 blunt though slightly recurved apex. Tragus rather short, the apex 

 blunt and roimded, the external margin with a sUght submedian 

 shoulder; accessory lobe distinct and represented by a curved fold on 

 the internal side parallel with, but distinct from, the main portion of 

 the tragus. Nostrils somewhat inflated, and each svirmounted and in- 

 ternally bordered by a low arcuate row of obscure tubercles. Lateral 

 portions of the muzzle thickened and forming a moderately elevated 

 ridge which gradually passes into the lateral portions of the upper lip. 

 Rostrum surrounded by a high rounded excrescence.^' Labial chin- 

 lappet rather narrow, strongly transverse, the median portion strongly 

 papillose, the superior margin around the semicircular chin-pad bear- 

 ing the largest papillae; inferior margin very faintly concave. Pos- 

 terior chin-lappet a simple flap almost equal to the labial lappet in 

 width, depressed. 



Limbs. — Forearm of moderate length, slightly curved in the proxi- 

 mal portion; thumb rather heavy. Tibia rather heavy and stout (for 

 the genus) ; foot slender, the toes strongly compressed ; calcaneum not 

 quite half as long again as the tibia. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes rather tliin but strong, the endo- 

 patagium and mesopatagium with the nerve rami longitudinal; uro- 

 patagium moderately large and with a great number of transverse lines 

 of hair; propatagium deep proximally, margin entirely free. Fur 

 rather thick and rather woolly in character on the lower surface, the 

 throat sparsely haired, the upper surface of the endopatagium with a 

 considerable proximal area furred. Hair on the chin-lappets and 

 muzzle rather setif orm ; ears with an irregular covering of white floccu- 

 lose hairs. 



Color. — This species appears to possess two color phases, which are 

 not quite so clearly defined as in some of the other forms of the genus. 

 Brown phase ■}* above between clove- and vandyke-brown ; below clove- 



'^ This curious outgrowth is exceedingly interesting. It is possibly analogous 

 to the nose-leaf of the Phyllostomatine bats, but this appears to be doubtful, and 

 probably it should be considered as representing a structure similar to that found 

 in some Vesper tilionine bats such as Aritrozous and Corijnorhinus. 



'* From alcohol. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



brown, the hair with a silvery or wliitish suffusion; membranes and 

 muzzle mars-brown, the latter portion rather pale and tending toward 

 cinnamon. Rufous phase: above dark mars-broT\Ti, the hair pale 

 at base ; below with the hair between vandyke-brown and sepia basally, 

 the apical portion light and rather silvery in character; membranes a 

 little paler than in the brown form. 



Skull. — Robvist and strongly built. Brain-case moderately ele- 

 vated above the rostrum, somewhat depressed longitudinally, but 

 rather evenly arched transversely; auditory bi-illse rather prominent; 

 zygomata little cm'ved, simple, greatest width posterior. Rostrum 

 rather high, appearing somewhat compressed when viewed from the 

 anterior aspect, merging into the brain-case with a very slight angle ; 

 nasal depression slight, shallow; palate rather deeply excavated, pos- 

 terior extension short and with the cleft acute-angulate. Mandible 

 rather slender, symphysis and anterior portion hea\y; ascending 

 ramus low; angle bluntly and slightly recurved. 



Teeth. — Median upper incisors quadrate in outline, very obscurely 

 bilobate; lateral upper incisor circular in basal outline and touching 

 the anterior margin of the incisor, cusp very low; upper canine conoid, 

 very slightly recurved ; fost upper premolar reniform in basal outline, 

 cusp rather low; second upper premolar trigonal in basal outline, cusp 

 moderately liigh, caniniform, internal cingulum rather strongly marked ; 

 first and second upper molars with the proto-hypoconoid ridge well 

 marked, the hypocone considerably the lower. Lower median incisors 

 distinctly trilobate, laterals bilobate or obscurely trilobate, all short 

 and rather crowded; lower canines somewhat divergent and slightly 

 recurved; first lower premolar rather oblong in basal outline, cusp 

 rather acute; second low^er premolar small, circular and crowded be- 

 tween the first and third premolar and forced to the internal side of 

 the toothrow, which when viewed from the labial aspect exhibits Uttle 

 or no space between the first and third premolar; third lower premolar 

 compressed, elongate when viewed from above, the cusp erect and some- 

 what recurved with a slight anterior accessory cusp; low^er molars 

 similar in character to one another, the first the largest in the series, 

 the posterior molar with the entoconid very low when compared v ith 

 that cusp of the other teeth. 



Measurements. — Average of series of eight alcoholic specimens: 

 Total length 76 (73.5-81) mm. ; length of head and body 56.7 (53-60.5) ; 

 length of head 23.5 (22-25); length of ear 20.6 (19.5-21.5); length of 

 tragus 5.3 (4.5-6) ; length of forearm 53.5 (52-54) ; length of thmnb 8.2 

 (7.5-8.5) ; length of third digit 85.8 (84-87) ; length of tibia 19 (18-19.5) ; 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



length of calcaneum 23 (21-24) ; length of foot 12.7 (12-13.4); length 

 of tail 20.9 (17-25). 



Average of three skulls: Total length 20.6 (20.2-21); greatest zygo- 

 matic width 11.1 (11-11.5); interorbital width 4 (4-4.1); height at 

 base of second premolar 4.9 (4.8-5) ; height of brain-case 7.6 (7.2-8) ; 

 breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 10; width of palatal 

 constriction 1.4 (1.4-1.5); length of palate from anterior foramina 8.6 

 (8.3-9); width of palate including teeth 7.1 (7.1-7.2); greatest length 

 of mandible 15.5 (15.2-16.) 



Remarks. — This species is not liable to be confused with any of the 

 forms of the genus except its own subspecies. From both of these 

 it may be separated by the crowded second premolar, the high rostral 

 portion of the skull and the rather slender foot. 



Specimens Examined. — Eight alcohohc specimens: Lucea, Jamaica. 

 (A. M. N. H.) 



Chilonycteris parnellii boothi (Gundlach). 



1861. Chilonycteris Boothi Gundlach, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wis- 

 sensch., Berlin, 1861, p. 154. ["In Fundador, audi in Guines."] 



1872. Chilonycteris Parnellii Peters, Monatsber, K. Preuss. Akad, Wis- 

 sensch., Berlin, 1872, p. 360. (Part.) [Cuba; Jamaica.] 



1873. Chilonycteris Boothi Gundlach, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., I, 

 cuad. 3, p. 245. [Cuba.] 



1902. Chilonycteris boothi MiUer, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 401. 

 1904. Chilonycteris boothi Miller, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 341. 

 [Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba.] i 



Type Locality. — Fundador, Matanzas Province, Cuba. Gundlach 

 states that the species was also found at Guines, but Fundador was 

 fixed as the type locality by Miller and Rehn.^^ 



Distribution. — ^The species has been recorded from Guines, Havana 

 Province; Fundador, Matanzas Province, and Baracoa, Santiago 

 Province, From these records it would appear that the species is 

 rather generally distributed through the island. Gundlach, in speaking 

 of the species, says : Observed and not rare in various caves of the 

 departments, also gathering at night in houses in the country. 



General Characters. — Similar to C. parnellii, but differing in the dis- 

 position of the lower premolars, the more depressed rostrum and the 

 more robust form. It is also very closely related to C. p. portoricensiSj 

 from which, however, it is separated by its larger size, slenderer 

 rostrum and rather depressed brain-case. 



Head. — Similar to C. parnellii, but with the ear slenderer, longer and 



with the apical portion decidedly falcate. 



Limbs. — Much as in C. parnellii, except that the foot appears to be 

 . \ 



1^ Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XXXI, p, 125. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



rather stouter and heavier. As the comparable material of C. p. hoothi 

 is very limited, this may prove to be incorrect when a larger series is 

 examined and compared. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in C. parnellii. 



Color. — As far as published references and available material goes, 

 no rufous phase is known in this race. This is no doubt due to the 

 limited material available, and further work wall probably show the 

 rufous type is also present in the Cuban form. Hair of the upper 

 surface silvery-gray at the base, apically dark walnut-brown, rather 

 pale on the nape and sides of the neck, w^here the under color shows 

 through and considerably weakens the brown tint; below Avith the 

 hair of the chest and abdomen bistre at the base, the tips of the hair on 

 these parts and all the hair on the throat and chin ecru-drab, this 

 color appearing stronger on the throat than on the other parts ; mem- 

 branes seal-brown. 



Skull. — Similar to C. parnellii, but slightly larger, the rostrum 

 slightly slenderer and lower, while the nasal impression is not as 

 marked as C. parnellii. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in C. parnellii, except that the second lower 

 premolar is not as crowded, having a place in the toothrow {i.e., placed 

 so that it is distinctly visible from either the labial or lingual aspect 

 of the tooth series), though still somewhat displaced toward the lingual 

 side. 



Measurements. — Average of a series of four specimens : Total length 

 81.2 (76-88) ; length of head and body 64.4 (60.5-68) ; length of head»« 

 24.8 (24.2-25.5); length of ear^^ 22 (21.5-22.5); length of tragus^' 5.6 

 (5.3-6); length of forearm 52 (51-53.5); length of thumb 8.7 (8-9.1); 

 length of third digit 86.7 (85-90); length of tibia 19.5 (19-20); length 

 of calcaneum 21.8 (21-23); length of foot 11.6 (11-12.5); length of 

 taiP" 21 (19.5-22.5). 



Average of two skulls: Total length 21 (20.8-21.2); greatest zygo- 

 matic width 11.2 (11.2-11.3); interorbital width 4.2; height at base 

 of second premolar 4.8; height of brain-case 7.4 (7.3-7.5); breadth of 

 brain-case above roots of zygomata 10; wddth of palatal constriction 

 1.4 (1.3-1.6); length of palate from anterior foramina 8.7 (8.6-8.8); 

 width of palate including teeth 7.2 (7.2-7.3) ; greatest length of man- 

 dible 15.7 (15.5-16). 



Remarks. — The differential characters of this form have already been 

 given under the key of the species and general characters of the race. 



'• From two specimens. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Specim.eyis Examined. — Four specimens, two skins, two alcoholic 



individuals: Baracoa, Santiago, Cuba. (U. S. N. M.) 



Chilonycteris parnellii portoricensis (Miller). 



1902. Chilonycteris portoricensis Miller, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1902, 

 p. 400. [Cave near Pueblo Viejo, Porto Rico.] 



Type Locality. — Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo Viejo, Bayamon district, 

 Porto Rico. 



Distribution. — Known only from the type locality, but probably 

 found in suitable localities throughout the island. 



General Characters. — Similar to C. p. hoothi, but the size is less, 

 while the skull is somewhat inflated. 



Head. — Essentially as in C. p. hoothi, except that the ears appear to 

 be slightly smaller with the apical portion blunter and less falcate. 



Limbs. — Except for the slight difference in proportions, essentially 

 as in C. p. hoothi. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in C. p. hoothi. 



Color. — Above dark brown, between Ridgway's mars-brown and 

 bistre, pale on the nape where the ecru-drab under portion of the hair 

 is very evident ; below dark gray, the base of the hair on the abdomen 

 and chest seal-brown, on the throat and chin pale Isabella color; mem- 

 branes blackish-brown. The remarks made under C. p. hoothi concern- 

 ing color phases also apply to this form. One specimen shows a slight 

 approach toward the rufous form. 



t* Skull. — Similar to that of C. p. hoothi, except that the brain-case is 

 more arched transversely and the rostrum is distinctly broader and 

 heavier. This character is interesting, as it is paralleled by a similar 

 development in the Porto Rican form of the macleayii group. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in C. p. hoothi. 



Measurements. — Average of series: Total length [5] 77.3 (74-79); 

 length of head and body [5] 57.8 (54-66) ; length of head [4] 23 (21.5- 

 24.3) ; length of ear [4] 20.5 (19.7-22) ; length of tragus [4] 5.3 (5-5.7) ; 

 length of forearm [5] 50.7 (49.6-51.5) ; length of thumb [5] 8.2 (8-8.5) ; 

 length of third digit [5] 81 (79-82); length of tibia [5] 18.4 (18-19); 

 length of calcaneum [4] 22.9 (19-25) ; length of foot [5] 11.8 (10.5-12.5) ; 

 length of tail [4] 21 (19.5-23). 



Dimensions of one skull: Total length 20.5; greatest zygomatic 

 width 11.1; interorbital space 4; height at base of second premolar 

 4.8; height of brain-case 7.5; breadth of brain-case above roots of 

 zygomata 9.8; width of palatal constriction 1.4; length of palate from 

 anterior foramina 8.7; width of palate including teeth 7.5; greatest 

 length of mandible 15.6 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF * [Feb.. 



Remarks. — This race needs special comparison with only one form, 

 C. pamellii boothi. From it portoriccnsis can be distinguished by the 

 rather smaller size and the form of the skull. Tlie ears do not seem to 

 be as good a diagnostic character as those given here, but still there is 

 a slight difference in the shape of the same. From C. jxtrncllii the 

 same characters that distinguish C. p. boothi can be applied to this 

 subspecies. 



Specimens Examined. — Five, one skin, four alcoholic specimens: 

 Cueva di Fari, near Pueblo A'lejo, Porto Rico. (U. S. N. M.) 



Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner. 



1843. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner, Archiv fiir Naturgescliichte, IX, bd. 

 I, p. 367. [Caigara, Brazil.] 



1850. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Wagner, Abhandlungen IMathem.-Physik. CI. 

 Akad. Wissenschaften Munchen, V, p. 181, taf. Ill figs. 2-6. [Caicara, 

 Brazil.] 



1854. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I, p. 75. [Cai- 

 cara. Brazil.] 



1S55. Ch[ilonycteris] rubiginosa Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, 

 p. 679. [Matto Grosso.] 



1872. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Peters, Monatsbericlite K. Preuss. Akad. Wis- 

 senscli., Berlin, 1872, p. 360. [Brazil; Guatemala; Costa Paca.] 



1878. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 452, 

 PI. XXIII, fig. 3. 



1879. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35. 

 (Part.) [Mirador, Mexico; Duenas, Ciudad Vieja, Guatemala; Costa 

 Rica; Colombia; Brazil.] 



1892. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Thomas, Journal Trinidad Field Naturalists' 



Club. J, p. 162. [Port of Spain, Trinidad.] 

 1902. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Miller Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 1902, 



p. 402. [Chontales, Nicaragua; Trinidad.] 



Type Locality. — Caigara, ujDper Amazon, Brazil. 



Distribution. — Upper Amazon region of Brazil, north to Guatemala, 

 east at least to Trinidad. The specimens from the latter island may, 

 when further material has been examined, i^rove to be a distinct race. 

 This form no doubt intergrades with C. r. mexicana, as specimens of 

 the latter race from southern Mexico approach true rubiginosa in pro- 

 portions. The specimen from Guatemala measured by Dobson (L c.) 

 was without doubt true rubiginosa. 



General Characters. — Size large (largest in the genus) ; ears with the 

 internal margin entire; tragus apically produced and with a slight 

 accessory lobe; nose with a low rounded tubercle. 



Head. — Moderately long, depressed; crown moderately elevated 

 above rostrum. Ears erect, apically acute; internal margin evenly 

 arcuate, the inferior lobe rectangulate; external margin slightly con- 

 cave in its upper half, median notch rectangulate, rather small, the 

 angle of the inferior shoulder rounded, lower portion of the external 

 margin evenly rounded and carried forward to near the angle of the 




1904.] NATURAL SCTKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



mouth, at which point it rather abriii)tly and squarely terminates. 

 Tragus sublanceolate; apex acutely produced: external margin evenly 

 rounded, with a shght emargination and thickening of the proximal 

 portion; internal margin thickened and bearing a slight accessory lobe, 

 which takes the form of a subarcuate longitudinal thickening of the 

 internal margin. Nose, a distance back from the nostrils, with a rather 

 low, rounded, subtransverse excrescence, anterior from which extend 

 three impressed lines, the lateral ones strong, extending down to and 

 flanking the nostrils, median one fainter and dividing the nostrils. 

 Nostrils subovate, each crowned by a very low transverse fleshy ridge, 

 each bearing several very poorly defined flat disk-like structures; 

 median line between the nostrils flanked by a row of several indistinct 

 nodular processes. Labial chin-lappet strongly transverse, arcuate; 

 lateral portions without papilla; median portion strongly and very 

 distinctly papillose, and margined superiorly by a semicircular imim- 

 }:)ressed area. Posterior chin-lappet a simple adpressed fold half the 

 wddth of the labial chin-lappet. 



Limbs. — Forearm moderately long, slightly and evenly bowed; third 

 digit of medium length. Forearm, tibise and feet rather robust, the 

 toes occupying about half the length of the foot; calcaneum rather 

 short, exceeding the tibise by a fifth the length of the latter. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes leathery, but not heavy; veins 

 of the endopatagium and mesopatagium regularly longitudinal, those 

 of uropatagium irregularly radiating from the point of exit of the tail ; 

 uropatagium large; propatagium deep, free its entire length. Fur 

 uniformly distributed over the body, and extending a moderate dis- 

 tance on the endopatagium, both above and below; hair around the 

 muzzle rather setiform in character. 



Color." — Above mars-brown, with a slight hoary frosting posteriorly; 

 below prout's-brown posteriorly suffused with pale ochraceous. Mem- 

 branes sepia. The red phase is also present in this species, as both 

 Wagner and Dobson mention it. 



Wagner possessed two specimens, one in each phase. He describes 

 the red phase as follows: The color of the tipper and the tinder side 

 is a uniform rusty cinnamon-red, that of the upper side of the body by 

 the nape and the breast brighter, on the belly lighter with scat- 

 tered spots of light brown. On the upper side the hair is tmicolor for 

 its entire length ; on the belly the greater under part is dark with lighter 

 tips. The flying membranes are brownish, the nails of the hind foot 

 soiled horn-brown. The second example is a dark color. 



^' From one Nicaragua skin. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Skull. — Rather strongly built; moderately elongate, zygomata but 

 little expanded; brain-case moderately elevated above the short and 

 broad rostrum. Brain-case subglobosc, somewhat depressed, crests 

 faint. Rostrum of medimii height, comparatively short and distinctly 

 expanded, considerably less than the brain-case in length; nasal de- 

 pression distinctly though shallowly excavated; palate subequal in 

 width, moderately excavated, posterior projection extending but little 

 beyond the major portion, the cleft narrowly rounded; pterygoids 

 considerably divergent. Mandible with the ascending rami low and 

 quite weak, the angle being considerably elevated and moderately 

 produced laterally. 



Teeth. — Median upper incisors moderately large, shallowly bilobate. 

 the external lolje considerably smaller than the internal; external 

 upper incisors over half the size of the median pair in basal outline, 

 the cusp very low and weak, no space present between the incisors and 

 canines; upper canines very slightly divergent and moderately re- 

 curved; first upper premolar reniform in basal outline, the greatest 

 length of the tooth oblique, cusp low and simple ; second upper pre- 

 molar crudely triangular in basal outline, the apex anterior, cusp 

 caniniform; first and second upper molars with the protocone and hypo- 

 cone distinct and acute. Lower median incisors trilobate; lower 

 lateral incisors bilobate, not half the size of the median pair and 

 crowded between them and the canines; lower canines considerably 

 divergent, slightly recurved ; first lower premolar subquadrate in basal 

 outline, cusp moderately elevated, compressed; second lower pre- 

 molar low, circular and strongly crowded between the first and third 

 premolar; third lower premolar oblong in basal outline, the single 

 cusp acute; third low^er molar smaller than the two preceding teeth 

 and the entoconid and hypoconid somewhat weaker when compared 

 with the para-proto-metaconid group. 



Measurements. — ^Averages of series: Length of head and body [3] 

 67.5 mm. (62.5-72) ; total length [4] 89 (80-95) ; length of head [3] 25.3 

 (24-26.1) ; ear [3] 2L5 (21-22) ; tragus [3] 5.7 (5.5-6) ; forearm [4] 60.6 

 (59-63); thumb [3] 10.7 (10.3-11.5); third digit [3] 96.6 (92-101): 

 tibia [4] 22.1 (22-22.5); foot [3] 14.5 (14-15); tail [3] 24.9 (23-26). 



Total length of skull [averages from two skulls] 22.7 mm. (22.5-23); 

 greatest zygomatic width 12.9 (12.5-13.3) ; breadth of brain-case above 

 roots of zygomata 11.2 (11-11.5); interorbital width 5; height at base 

 of second premolar 5.4 (5.3-5.5); height of brain-case 8.5; width of 

 palatal constriction 1.8 (1.7-2); length of palate from anterior fora- 

 mina 9.7 (9.6-9.8); width of palate including teeth 8; greatest length 

 of mandible 17.8. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



Remarks. — This species is unlikely to be confused with any form of 

 the genus except the race mexicana, which can readity be separated liy 

 the size and the intensity of the coloration in the brown phase. From 

 the boothi group it can readily be separated by the characters given 

 in the key of species. 



Specimens Examined. — Four, one skin and three alcoholic individ- 

 uals : 



Port of Spain, Trinidad. (U. S. N. M.) [2.] 



Costa Rica. (U. S. N. M.) [1.] 



Chontales, Nicaragua. (U. S. N. M.) [1.] 



Chilonycteris rubiginosa mexicana (Miller). 



1879. Chilonycteris rubiginosa Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 35. 



(Part.) [Mirador, Mexico; Duenas, Ciudad Vieja, Guatemala; Costa Rica; 



Colombia; Brazil.] 

 1894. Chilonycteris riibiginosus J. A. Allen. Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, 



p. 247. (Not of Wagner.) [South shore of Lake Chapala, Michoacan, 



Mexico.] 

 1902. Chilonycteris mexicana Miller, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 



401. [San Bias, Tepic; Hacienda Magdalena, near city of Colima, Co- 



lima; Chacala, Durango; Ameca, Bolanos, Jalisco: near Ometepec, 



Guerrero; Morelos; Huil tepee, Oaxaca; Mexico.] 



Type Locality. — San Bias, Tepic, Mexico. 



Distribution. — Specimens have been examined from localities reach- 

 ing from Tehuantepec and Huiltepec, Oaxaca to Chacala, Durango, 

 while individuals from Mirador, A^era Cruz, are perfectly typical. To 

 the south, no doubt, this form grades into true rubiginosa, as the speci- 

 mens from southern Mexico average larger than those from around the 

 type locality. 



Miller says of this form: ''At San Bias Chilonycteris mexicana was 

 very common in a small narrow cave which extended like a deep 

 crevice into the base of the cliff on the hillside facing the town." 



General Characters. — Similar to C. rubiginosa. but smaller, and the 

 brown phase of coloration lighter. 



Limbs. — As in rubiginosa, but for the smaller size. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in rubiginosa. 



Color. — Bro-wn phase : above prout's-brown , rather pale on the nape; 

 below with the hair seal-brown basally with broccoli-brown tips, the 

 color weak on the throat due to the thinner character of the pelage. 

 Ears and membranes clove-brown. 



Rufous phase: entire body and head rich tawny-ochraceous, the 

 hairs of the under surface brown at base (varying from cinnamon on 

 the throat to mummy-brown on the abdomen). Ears and membranes 

 clove-brown. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



The two color phases appear to run together as several specimens 

 examined are almost intermediate, for while the upper surface will 

 incline toward the brown phase, the lower surface strongly resembles 

 the rufous form. The type, described by Miller, apparently does not 

 represent the extreme of the brown phase. From the specimens 

 examined the brown phase may l^e said to be commoner than the 

 rufous form. 



Skull and Teeth. — Except for the difference in size, the skull and 

 teeth are as in Ch. rubiginosa. 



Measurements. — Average of representative series of fourteen speci- 

 mens: Total length 78.8 (77-85); length of head and body 58.8 

 (56.5-63.5); length of head 23.6 (22..5-24.5) ; length of ear 20.5 (18.5- 

 22.1); length of tragus 5.8 (5-6.4); length of forearm 56.5 (54-59); 

 length of thumb 9.8 (9.1-11); length of third digit 93 (87-97); length 

 of tibia 20.2 (19-22); length of foot 12.9 (12.5-13.5); length of tail 

 21.2 (19.4-23.5). 



Average of eleven skulls: Greatest length 21.2 (20.9-22); greatest 

 zygomatic width 11.8 (11-12.5); interorbital width 4.4 (4.2-4.8); 

 breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 10.3 (10.1-10.5); 

 height at base of second premolar 4.8 (4.6-5.1); height of brain-case 

 8 (7.8-8.2); width of palatal constriction 1.6 (1.4-1.8); length of 

 palate from anterior foramina 8.5 (8.3-9.2) ; width of palate including 

 teeth 7.4 (7-7.9); greatest length of mandible 15.8 (15.4-16.5). 



Remarks. — This race can easily be distinguished from true rubiginosa 

 by the difference in size. 



Specimens Examined . — Forty-six specimens; eight skins, thirty-six 

 alcoholic individuals, one odd skull: 



Near Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [L] 



Huiltepec, Oaxaca, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [1.] 



Ometepec, Guerrero, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [3.] 



Morelos, Mexico. (U. S. N. M.) [4.] 



Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mexico. (U. S. N. M.) [1.] 



CoHma City, Cohma, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [2.] 



Hacienda Magdalena, Colima, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [5.] 



Ameca, Jalisco, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [5.] 



Bolahos, Jalisco, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [4.] 



South shore of Lake Chapala, Michoacan, Mexico. (A. M. N. H.) 



[4.] 



San Bias, Tepic, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [11.] 

 Chacala, Durango, Mexico. (Biological Survey.) [5.] 




1904] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Chilonycteris psilotis Dobson. 



1878. Chilonycteris psilotis Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 451 PL 

 XXIII, fig. 2. 



1902. Chilonycteris psilotis Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV, p. 249. De- 

 cember 16, 1902. [Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico.] 



Type Locality and Distribution. — Dobson's types (cJ' and ?) came 

 from an unkno-^Ti locality, and until the recent record of the species 

 by Miller (vide supra) nothing was known regarding its habitat. The 

 Isthmus of Tehuantepec is according^ the only locality from which 

 the species is known. 



General Characters. — Size medium; ear without distinct notch on 

 the external margin ; toes distinctly longer than the remainder of the 

 foot. 



Head. — Rather short and broad; rostrum moderately depressed, 

 bearing on its superior aspect a distance back of the nosa a trans- 

 verse, arcuate fleshy ridge, equal in width to the nose-pad itself. 

 Ears moderately elongate, rather broad (for the genus), apically sub- 

 lanceolate, the lower margins extended considerably forward, but 

 failing to reach the angle of the mouth; internal margin of the ear 

 attached to the head superior to the eye, internal ridge distinct, thick- 

 ened, slightly arcuate, evenly rounded inferiorly and passing by a 

 well-marked shoulder into the internal margin of the ear, distal two- 

 thirds of the internal margin arcuate, slightly sinuate toward the apex 

 and furnished about half-way between the apex and the shoulder of 

 the internal ridge with a series of four small tooth-like projections ; 

 external margin basally convex, apically concave, without any distinct 

 notch; apex rather slender, subfalciform, narrowly rounded. Tragus 

 oblong, apex rather acute, accessory flap small and rounded. Nos- 

 trils transversely ovate, superior margin with a rather low ridge which 

 is divided into about six parts by shallow incisions, lateral margins 

 flanked by low rounded fleshy folds. Labial chin-lappet strongly 

 transverse, bearing a raised margin lateralh%" inferior margin verj^ 

 broadly and slightly concave, median portion of the lappet with 

 rather obscure papillae; superior margin with a deep median emar- 

 gination, which lodges the simple lip-pad. Posterior chin-lappet 

 slight, a simple fold equal in width to the labial fold, against which it is 

 closely set. 



Limbs. — Forearm moderately long, considerably bowed in the proxi- 

 mal half. Femora and tibise moderately robust (for the genus) ; foot 

 elongate, somewhat compressed, considerably more than half the length 

 of the foot occupied by the toes ; calcanea but slightly longer than th*^- 

 tibise and provided with a free apex. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes thin and rather papery in char- 

 acter; transverse nerves of the endopatagium and mesopatagiiim very 

 regularly disposed ; propatagium much as in madeayii, but the distal 

 portion is rather narrower ; uropatagium rather large, extending beyond 

 the enclosed portion of the tail a distance equal to the same. Fur of 

 moderate length and extending evenly a short distance out on the 

 dorsal surface of the endopatagium ; both surfaces of the endopatagium 

 and uropatagium with scattered inconspicuous hairs; muzzle ^\ith a 

 number of long setiform hairs. 



Color. — As the only available specimen is an old alcoholic individual, 

 the colors are possibly not what might be seen in fresh specimens. 

 Above vandyke-l^rowii, rather pale on the loins ; l^eneath drab, with a 

 clouding of pale whitish. Muzzle, naked spots on head and ears wood- 

 brown, the latter rather darker than the other portions. IMembranes 

 mummy-bro'^Ti, paler on the propatagium, proximal portions of the 

 endopatagium and uropatagium than on the remaining sections. 

 Dobson describes the color as follow's: "Fur orange above and beneath 

 with orange-brown extremities ; darker above, paler beneath." 



Skull. — Comparatively short and robust, the rostral portion moder- 

 ately inflated and the nasal depression rather broadly and deeply exca- 

 vated. Brain considerably inflated and moderately elevated above 

 the rostrum, into wliich it evenly descends, crests hardly visible; 

 zygomata moderately expanded ; interorbital constriction not strongly 

 marked. Palate subequal in width (not including teeth), moderately 

 arched, posterior projection of little extent, the cleft obtuse-angulate ; 

 pterygoids strongly divergent. Mandible very similar to that of C. 

 rnacleayii, but the length is less, the build heavier and the angle dis- 

 tinctly falcate. 



Teeth. — Upper median incisors broad, rather faintly bilobate; lateral 

 upper incisors small and closely pressed to the median pair and sepa- 

 rated from the canines by a considerable space ; upper canines moder- 

 ately long, very slightly curved ; first upper premolar oblong in basal 

 outline, longitudinal disposed and bearing a single low cusp; second 

 upper premolar subpentagonal in basal outline, the single cusp acute 

 and subcaninif orm ; first and second upper molars with the hypoconid 

 region developed into a rather projecting rounded lobe which is very 

 apparent. Lower incisors small, trifid; lower canines straight; first 

 lower premolar subrotundate in basal outline with the cusp rather 

 blunt; second lower premolar minute and displaced to the inner side 

 of the toothrow; third lower premolar subquadrate in basal outline; 

 lower molars very much as in C macleayii. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES 01'' PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Measurements}^ — Total length 62 mm.; head and body 46; ear 

 (from meatus) 15.8; tragus 5; forearm 44; thumb 8; third digit 71; 

 tibia 17; calcaneimi 19; foot 9 (8); tail 16. 



Total length of skull 15 mm.; greatest zygomatic width 8.2; inter- 

 orbital width 3.7; height at base of second premolar 4; height of brain- 

 case 6.5; width of palatal constriction 1.2; length of palate 6; width 

 of palate including teeth 5.5; greatest length of mandible 10.5. 



Remarks. — This species hardly requires comparison ^^'ith any in the 

 genus, being smaller and differing in general aspect from the boothi and 

 ruhiginosa group, while the macleayii type may easily be separated by 

 the form of the ear. The skull closeh^ resembles that of Dermonotus, 

 but it is slenderer with a narrower interorbital region and different 

 shaped premolars. As the species seems to approach Dermonotus in 

 some characters, I have placed it at the end of the genus, all the other 

 forms appearing to l^e more homogeneous, a fact rather strongly 

 demonstrated by the form of the skull. 



Specimens Examined. — One alcoholic; Isthmus of Tehuantepec, 

 Mexico. (U. S. N. M.) 



^^ As some measurements of the only available specimen have already been 

 published by Miller {I. c), I have used his information, only filling out the pro- 

 portions required to make the measurements uniform with those of the remainder 

 of this paper. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^, 



ON THE GERM CELLS AND THE EMBRYOLOGY OF PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA.. 



BY N. M. STEVEXS. 



This planarian, which is found in small streams about Bryn Mawr. 

 was identified provisionalh' in 1900 by Woodworth as Planaria luguhris, 

 and has since figured under that name in several of Prof. T. H. Mor- 

 gan's papers on regeneration; also in my "Notes on Regeneration in 

 Planaria lugubris" (Stevens, '01). 



On looking up the European species (P. luguhris) as described and 

 figured by Schmidt ('59, PI. Ill, figs. 5 and 6), and by Kennel ('79, 

 PI. VII, fig. 8), I felt sure that Woodworth must have been mistaken as 

 to the species; but I was unable to find any correct description or 

 figures, either of the external characters of the animal or of its repro- 

 ductive organs, and I was inclined to call it a new species. In Sep- 

 tember, 1903, after this paper was written, I came across an article 

 by Curtis ('00) on the reproductive organs of Planaria simplissima 

 n. sp. The reproductive organs of this species were so strikingly like 

 those of the form on which I had been working that, although there was 

 considerable difference in form, size and color, I was convinced that 

 the two worms must be closely related, if not local varieties of the same 

 species. 



In answer to m^^ inquiries about Planaria simpUssima , Prof. Curtis 

 has recently written me that after studying specimens sent to him b}' 

 Prof. Morgan from Brjoi Mawr, and sectioning others of the same spe- 

 cies found near Baltimore in 1900 and 1901, he concluded that the 

 Williamstown form, P. simplissima (fig. B), and the Bryn Mawr form 

 P. {luguhris), (fig. A) belonged to the same species. Prof. Curtis 

 desires me to state that his description of the external characters of 

 P. simplissima was made from fixed material, living specimens not 

 being accessible when he discovered that he was dealing with a new 

 species. Later observations on living specimens from Williamstown 

 made it apparent that his description was at fault, especially with re- 

 gard to the lateral cephalic appendages which are more marked than 

 was evident in fixed material. A careful sketch, made at this time 

 from the living animal and sent to me with his letter, is a good repre- 

 sentation of a young specimen of the Bryn Mawr form (figs. A and B) 




1904.] 



XATURAI SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



209 



Fij^. A. Outline sketch of a large mature specimen of Planaria simplissima, 

 a^gray sensory area on the lateral auricular appendage. 7J=:pharynx. 

 (7=genital opening. 



Fig. B. Outline drawing from Curtis's sketch of a. small specimen from Wil- 

 liams town. 



and, I think, leaves no doubt that we have the same species, which 

 may be described as follows: 



Planaria simplissima Curtis. 



Length of mature specimens 7-15 mm.; breadth 2-4 mm. Color 

 a nearly uniform seal-brown'(occasionally grajdsh) with an inconspicu- 

 ous gray area on each'cephalic appendage. Eyes gray with a crescent 

 of black pigment on the median side. Both anterior and posterior 

 ends blunt. Lateral^cephalic appendages blimt and inconspicuous as 

 compared with P. macvlata. Body thick as compared with P. macu- 

 lata. Pharynx just posterior to the middle point of the longitudinal 

 axis of the worm. Ovaries two, ventral, somewhat lobed, and situated 

 about half-way from the anterior end of the animal to tlic pharynx. 

 14 




210 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Testes four or five on each side, unpaired, dorsal, and irregularly dis- 

 tributed from the region of the ovaries to the posterior end of the 

 pharynx (figs. C and D). Penis long and slender, not filling the 



^pi) 



•'^''g- C. Median longitudinal section of Planaria simplissima showing repro- 

 ductive organs. Parts out of the plane of the section are shown in dotted 

 lines. a=antrum. 6 — brain. o=;ovary. cc/^^oviduct. p=penis. /= testis. 

 w= uterus. W=vas deferens of one side. a;= ciliated tube opening into 

 uterus. v=:vagina. 



Fig. D. Reconstruction from several cross-sections 'showing ovaries (o), ovi- 

 ducts {od), nerve cords {n) and testes (t). 



antrum. Uterus consisting of a chamber lined with glandular epi- 

 thelium, dorsal to the antrum, and with an anterior prolongation in 

 the form of a narrow ciliated tube with no enlargement at its anterior 

 end. Vasa deferentia two, opening separately into the anterior en- 

 largement of the lumen of the penis. Oviducts two, ventral and par- 

 allel with the nerve-cords, uniting before entering the uterus (figs. C 

 and D). Vitellaria extending from the region of the ovaries to the 

 posterior extremity of the animaL 



Foimd on the under side of stones and leaves along the margin of 

 small streams. 




1904.] 



NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



211 



The original object of this paper was a discussion of the reproduc- 

 tive organs, ovogenesis, spermatogenesis and embryological develop- 

 ment of Planaria {luguhris). The discovery that it is not P. luguhris 

 but P. simplissima Curtis renders further discussion of the reproductive 

 organs unnecessary, and I shall therefore confine my attention to a 

 study of the germ-cells and the embryology of this species, which pre- 

 sents some peculiarities not fully described by Ijima ('84) and Hallez 

 (79). 



Fertilization. — Copulation has not been observed in this species, 

 but there is every reason for supposing that it occurs, for spermatozoa 

 are found only in the vasa deferentia, the lumen of the penis, the 

 uterus and the oviduct. In nearly every specimen the anterior end 

 of the oviduct is crowded with spermatozoa (PI. XIII, fig. 1, od), while 

 only occasionally one is found in the posterior part of the duct or in 

 the uterus. The spermatozoa are never found among the oocytes in 

 the ovary, and it is probable that each egg is fertilized as it enters 

 the oviduct, for the spermatozoon is always found in the eggs of a 

 forming capsule, and no spermatozoa are found among the eggs and 

 yolk. 



I should therefore agree with Ijima in regarding the uterus as a 

 gland for forming the cocoon shell, and not as the 

 place where fertilization occurs (Hallez), or as a re- 

 ceptaculum seminis (Kennel). 



When an egg-capsule is forming, the antrum, 

 uterus and the tube x (fig. C) are all thrown into 

 one chamber, which is filled with eggs and yolk- 

 cells, the penis being pushed back against the 

 anterior wall of the antrum (fig. E) and the antrum 

 l^eing separated from the pharynx-chamber by so 

 thin a layer of tissue that it is often broken through 

 in fixed specimens, and yolk-cells are found in the 

 pharynx-chamber. 



Ovogenesis. — The early stages in the development 

 of the oocytes evidently should be studied in the 

 summer after laying-time, for the ovaries are practi- 

 cally unchanged in appearance from October to lay- 

 ing-time in April. Figure 1, drawn from a section 

 cut in November, shows nearly all of the odcj^tes 

 in the same condition as in sections containing the 

 first maturation-spindle (cut in April and May). 

 The cytoplasm of the oocytes stains deeply with hsematoxylin and 



Fig. E. Median 

 longitudinal sec- 

 tion through an 

 individual con- 

 taining an egg- 

 capsule (c). od= 

 oviduct. p= 

 penis 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



contains here and there a 3'olk-granule in a vacuole (fig. 2a, y). The 

 nucleus is very large and shows but little stainable chromatin, and 

 that in the form of fine granules on threads of linin. The large nu- 

 cleolus, which stains deeply with orange, contains one or more 

 vacuoles. As in my previous work on the histology of planarians 

 (Stevens, '02), the best results were obtained by fixing the material 

 with sublimate-acetic and staining -^dth Delafield's hsematoxylin and 

 orange. 



The first maturation-spindle is found in the ovary about twenty- 

 four hours before laying. In an eciuatorial stage the spindle is near 

 the centre of the egg. The asters are very large, but there is no evi- 

 dence of centrosome or sphere. The chromosomes are V-shaped, 

 and split longitudinally, giving V-shaped daughter chromosomes, as 

 in figs. 3a and 36. Only four specimens in this stage were obtained 

 out of a large number sectioned; and of these, three had either 3 

 chromosomes in an equatorial plate (figs. 2a and 25) or 6 daughter 

 chromosomes (figs. 3a and 35), and one had 4 in the equatorial plate 

 (fig. 4). Time and material were lacking to trace the egg from the 

 ovary to the uterus, after it was ascertained that an interA-al of about 

 twenty-four hours occurred between the formation of the first and 

 second polar bodies. 



By removing the capsule before the shell is formed and staining with 

 Schneider's aceto-carmine, the second maturation-division can be 

 more advantageously studied than in sections. Figs. 8-11 were made 

 from such preparations; figs. 5a, 55 and 6, from sections. In only 

 two cases was the first polar body observed (figs. 6 and 8), and it seems 

 probable that it is usually lost as the egg passes down the oviduct. 

 The number of egg-chromosomes is 3 in most cases. In two eggs from 

 the same capsule the number was 6 (figs. 9 and 10), and in a few others 

 4 and 5 w^ere observed, indicating that, as in Ascaris mcgalocephala 

 and Echinus 7nicrotuberculatus , there may be two forms which occa- 

 sionally interbreed, one having twice as many chromosomes as the 

 other. 



"J'hus an egg having 6 chromosomes fertilized by a spermatozoon 

 having 3 would give an individual having 9 somatic chromosomes 

 and probably 5 chromosomes in germ-cells after reduction. Union 

 of germ-cells having 3 and 5 chromosomes respectively woiild result in 

 an individual having 8 chromosomes in somatic cells, and 4 in oocytes 

 and spermatozoa. 



Figure 8 shows an egg in which there was no doubt about the number 

 3 in the first polar body (p\), and at the poles of the second maturation- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



spindle (p^ and e). Figure 7 is a somatic cell containing 6 chromo- 

 somes. Six have also been counted several times in the first segmenta- 

 tion-division. That the second maturation-division of the chromo- 

 somes is longitudinal like the first one is evident from the form of the 

 chromosomes and from the pairs seen at a and h in fig. 10. Figure 

 1 1 shows the second polar body separating from the egg. 



Spermatogenesis. — ^As in the case of the ovaries, the testes should 

 be studied in summer after laying-time, in order to follow the develop- 

 ment of the spermatogonia, but occasional divisions of spermatogonia 

 and both spermatocyte-di visions may be observed in material pre- 

 served at any time during the autumn and winter. My best material 

 was fixed about the first of December. PI. XV, fig. 15, shows a part 

 of the section of a testis which contained dividing spermatogonia (a) , 

 both maturation-divisions (e and /), spermatids in all stages {g,h, i, k, 

 I), and ripe spermatozoa. In this animal the number of chromosomes 

 in the maturation-divisions was 4, in the spermatogonia 8. In several 

 others only 3 were found in the spermatocytes (figs. 20 and 22). Vari- 

 ous phases of the first maturation-division are showii in figs. 16-21 

 and of the second in figs. 22 and 23. The form of the chromosomes 

 in all phases of both divisions is the same, a Y-shape, easily distinguish- 

 able from the V-shaped and U-shaped chromosomes of the spermato- 

 gonia and somatic cells. There is no evidence of a transverse, or 

 reducing, division. In an anaphase (figs. 20 and 22), each daughter 

 chromosome appears to be drawn toward the pole of the spindle by a 

 single fiber attached to the stem of the Y. The spindle is composed of 

 very few fibers, and neither centrosomes nor asters have been demon- 

 strated. The spermatocytes before division appear as in fig. 15, d, 

 and nothing corresponding to the synapsis stage described by various 

 authors has been found. The spermatogonia in both resting and 

 division-stages closely resemble the so-called embryonic or paren- 

 chyma cells which are scattered through the planarian body and play 

 a conspicuous role in regeneration (fig. 15, a). 



Figs. 24—32 show^ various stages in the development of the sperma- 

 tozoon. The nucleus of the spermatid contracts, forming a small ball 

 of nuclear material which stains deeply and uniformly (figs. 24r-27, a). 

 This concentrated nucleus gradually elongates (figs. 27, b-29), and 

 finally leaves the cytoplasm tail first (figs. 15 and 29). Many empty 

 spermatid cells are shown in fig. 15; n. The spermatozoon appears to 

 be formed wholly from the nucleus of the spermatid, and stains like 

 chromatin throughout. The spermatozoa in the oviduct near the 

 ovary have a knob-like appendage near the anterior end (fig. 32) 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



This appears to be a late development, as it is not found on the sperma- 

 tozoon in the testes, vasa deferentia, or lumen of the penis. 



Emhryological Development. — As stated above, the first maturation- 

 division of the egg occurs in the ovary; fertilization probably takes 

 place in the oviduct; and the second maturation-division is found in 

 the forming capsules. The eggs of capsules just laid always show the 

 two pronuclei with very large nucleoli, as in PI. XIII, fig. 12, and a 

 few hours later the pronuclei are fused as in fig. 13, but the two 

 nucleoli are distinct. The development of the eggs during the first 

 day can be best studied in aceto-carmine. Sections of these and of 

 older capsules may be obtained by piercing the shell with a needle and 

 fixing in sublimate-acetic. The sheU must be removed before embed- 

 ding. The rate of development varies greatly in different capsules, and 

 even among the eggs of the same capsule. Laying occurs in the morn- 

 ing from daylight to ten o'clock. In one case the first cleavage-spindle 

 was found at 10.30 A.M. in one egg of a capsule, in which all the others 

 showed the pronuclei not fused. In other capsules eggs containing 

 the pronuclei were foimd as late as 5 P.M. Two, foiu and eight-celled 

 stages were also occasionally found late in the afternoon. Figure 14, a, 

 was from an egg stained wdth aceto-carmine at 4.30 P.M. There 

 were 6 chromosomes at each pole, as shown in fig. 14, h, obtained by 

 focussing down on one end of the spindle. As in the maturation- 

 divisions, neither centrosome nor sphere could be demonstrated. 



The peculiar positions taken by the blastomeres in 2, 4 and 8-celled 

 stages is showTi in PL XIII, figs. 33-36. Fig. 35 is a reconstruction 

 from five successive sections. Fig. 36 is a section of a 32-celled stage 

 in which the yolk-cells near the group of blastomeres have begun to 



break down in the region x x. The next stage (PI. XV, fig.' 



37) shows a section of an embryo, consisting of a syncitial yolk- 

 mass {y^), distinct from the surroimding yolk-cells and disintegrated 

 yolk-material. The group of blastomeres is always irregular in 

 orm and eccentrically situated, coming to the surface on one 

 s^ide of the yolk-mass. Some of the blastomeres soon begin to wander 

 through the sjmcitium, and may be found dividing at any point. A 

 section of a capsule at this stage frequently shows sections of three 

 or four such embryos. The embryonic yolk-mass gradually increases 

 in size, as may be seen by comparing figs. 37-40, all drawn with the 

 same magnification. The embryo is partly or wholly surrounded by a 

 region of disintegrated yolk-ceUs (fig. 37, a), from w^liich material for 

 the embryonic syncitium is evidently dra^^^l. In some cases whole 

 yolk-cells appear to be taken into the syncitium in amoeboid fashion. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



In fig. 38, p\ the first cells of the embryonic pharynx are distin- 

 guished from the surrounding blastomeres by their different staining 

 qualities. Figs. 39-41 show the characteristic structure of such a 

 pharynx which is well developed, but not yet functional. Fig. 40 

 is a median vertical-section through- the pharynx, fig. 39 a median 

 cross-section through the central cells (h), and fig. 41 a cross-section 

 through the four inner cells (d). The cells which surround the lumen 

 of the pharynx are twelve in number — four somewhat flattened sur- 

 face cells (a), four cylindrical central cells (6), and four nearly spherical 

 inner cells (d). MetschnikofT ('83) suggests that the latter group of 

 four cells, supposed by some to represent the primary endoderm, may 

 serve as a valve to prevent the escape of yolk-cells. The central cells 

 are surrounded by a considerable number of smaller cells radially 

 arranged and supposed to be muscle-cells serving to open the pharjmx. 

 Figs. 39 and 40 also show wandering blastomeres in all parts of the 

 sjmcitial yolk-material of the embryo. A few of these are flattened 

 to form a partial epithelium. Fig. 42 is a section through a functional 

 pharynx taking in yolk-cells (y^). The central cells (6) are much flat- 

 tened to form the lining of the lumen, and the muscle-cells are length- 

 ened radially. The two inner cells shown in dotted outline belong 

 to the next section. 



Up to the time when the embryonic pharynx becomes functional, 

 the embryo is a solid ball of yolk in the form of a syncitium containing 

 scattered blastomeres, with the developing pharynx at one side, in 

 the region where segmentation began. Here and there over the sur- 

 face are flattened blastomeres forming an incomplete epithelium 

 (figs. 39-40). As the yolk is sucked in, the embryo becomes a hollow 

 ball filled with yolk-cells (figs. 43-47). [In these and the following 

 figures the space occupied by the yolk cells sucked in by the embryonic 

 pharynx — the secondary j^olk (i/^) — is not filled in.] Fig. 43 is a 

 section of a nearly spherical embryo from a capsule in which some yolk 

 still remained around the embryos. Fig. 44 is a cross-section of a 

 flattened embryo of full size, all the yolk outside of the embryos having 

 disappeared. In these sections the blastomeres (b) are scattered in 

 the primary yolk-material (y^) of the embryonic surface layer of the 

 embryo, and still possess the characteristics of the earlier blastomeres, 

 deeply-staining cytoplasm and large nucleus containing a conspicuous 

 nucleolus. Figs. 45 and 46 show parts of sections from somewhat 

 older embryos, where the embryonic pharynx (p^) is degenerating and 

 the blastomeres have multiplied so as to nearly fill the embryonic 

 layer, very little yolk remaining among them. The embryonic pharynx 




21G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



disappears completely before the adult pharynx begins to form, but 

 its relation to that pharynx appears to be the same as in P. maculata, 

 as recently described by Curtis ('02). In fig. 45 the ventral side of 

 the embryonic layer is easily distinguishable from the dorsal side by 

 its greater thickness, and the degenerating pharynx (p^) is on the dorsal 

 side, as in Curtis's fig. 51, PI. 17. The embryonic pharpix disappears 

 so early, when many of the embryos are quite irregular in form, that 

 it is impossible to tell whether it has a fixed position relative to the 

 permanent pharynx or not, but my impression is that its position is 

 variable. There is no evidence whatever that the embryonic pharjmx 

 serves as a tube leading to the anlage of the permanent pharynx, as 

 described by Metsclinikoff ('83) for Planaria polychroa. 



Fig. 47 is from a 4-day embryo in which the pharynx-chamber 

 appears as a split in the thickened ventral region of the embryo. In 

 this stage pigment and rhabdites have begun to appear in the surface 

 epithelium-cells, and rhabdite-cells are found among the embryonic 

 cells, which are no longer like the early blastomeres, but closely resem- 

 ble the embryonic cells of newly regenerated regions of adult planarians. 

 Figs. 48 and 49 are sections of an older embryo (5-6 daj^s), showing 

 the permanent ectoderm well developed and full of pigment and 

 rhabdite-cells. So far as I am able to determine, the ectoderm is 

 formed from the outer embryonic cells and not by division of the earlier 

 scattered epithelium-cells. There is considerable evidence that rhab- 

 dite-cells migrate from the interior to the surface and become a part of 

 the ectoderm. In this embryo (figs. 48-51) the pharjTix (p^) is quite 

 large and has a lumen connected with the central yolk-area (fig. 50). 

 The yolk-area is being gradually divided up by strands of cells extend- 

 ing inward from the surface layer of embryonic cells to form the bound- 

 aries of the axial gut and its principal branches. Fig. 52 is from an 

 older embryo (7 or 8 days), in which the development of the digestive 

 tract is quite far advanced. In fig. 49 there is a section of a very young 

 eye (e), the pigmented cup consisting of only 5 or 6 cells. No brain 

 is yet distinguishable, but the lateral nerve-cords are represented by a 

 few strands of nerve -fibers (?i). In fig. 52 the e3'e is much further 

 advanced and the nerve-cords are larger. The eyes in all embryos of 

 this age are situated much deeper in the tissue than in the adult. 

 There is as yet no definite endoderm, but here and there are cells with 

 nuclei like those of adult endoderm-cells, and processes extend out 

 from them among the yolk-cells as seen in fig. 51, e. 



Fig. 53 is a cross-section of an embryo just before hatching (12th 

 dav). The lumen of the digestive tract is still full of yolk-cells and 




190-i.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



the endoderm-cells also contain masses of yolk {y-). Figs. 55 and 56, 

 endoderm-cells containing large masses of yolk, were taken from the 

 same embryo as Fig. 53. Fig. 57 shows a similar endoderm-cell from 

 a young planaiian one day old. This cell contains one of the large 

 vacuoles {v) characteristic of adult endoderm-cells, and the yolk is 

 much disintegrated. 



Thus it is perfectly plain, in this form at least, that the yolk-cells do 

 not serve as a "vicarious endoderm" (Metschnikoff) ; but endoderm- 

 cells, developed from the embryonic cells of the one genu laj'er, con- 

 sume the yolk-cells in the same manner as they do other food material 

 later on. 



Fig. 54 is a section from the head region of the same embryo as fig. 53, 

 showing brain (6) and eyes (e). By the fourth day after birth the yolk 

 has all disappeared from the lumen of the gut, but masses of it are still 

 to be seen in the endoderm-cells. The late embryos and young pla- 

 narians contain a very large proportion of embryonic cells and few 

 muscle- and gland-cells compared with mature animals. The tissue 

 of the whole body resembles that of recently regenerated parts of 

 adult planarians. It is interesting to note that the interval between 

 egg-laying and the developmejit of the permanent pharynx, eyes and 

 ner\ous system in the embryo is about the same as between merotomy 

 and regeneration of the same organs in pieces of adult planarians. 



The reproductive organs develop late, and as yet have been studied 

 in only two specimens. In one yoimg planarian, 8 weeks old, one ovary 

 was found, but no other reproductive or genital organs. In another, 

 10 weeks old, there was a small antrum with the penis just forming, 

 but no genital pore; one ovary and three testes were found. The 

 oocytes in these j^oung ovaries were small and only just distinguishable 

 from the cells of the yoke glands, which were quite well developed. 

 In the testes there were already mature spermatozoa. 



Summary. 



The points that seem to need especial emphasis are : 



1. In Planaria simplissima division of the chromosomes in both 

 maturation-divisions is longitudinl. 



2. The number of chromosomes in the maturation-divisions of the 

 germ-cells varies frrom 3 to 6, but is usually 3. 



3. In the embrj^ological development there is nothing corresponding 

 to the typical blastula and gastrula. After several segmentation 

 divisions the blastomeres form an irregular group embedded in a syn- 

 citial yolk-mass which forms a part of the embryo. Some of the blasto- 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.. 



meres form the embryonic pharynx; others wander through the syn- 

 citium. 



4. The embryonic layer which covers the secondary yolk (if) takerv 

 in by the embryonic pharynx, in no way corresponds to the ordinar}- 

 gastrula-stage. The sohd embryo has, by sucking in yolk through it-- 

 phar3mx, become a hohow ball filled with secondary yoke-cells (i/). 

 The embryo now consists of a single layer of spicitial yolk-material, 

 containing scattered blastomeres which feed on the primary yolk- 

 material and multiply until they occupy the whole space previoush' 

 filled by the primary yolk (figs. 43-46). Then the inner embryonic 

 cells begin to serve as endoderm-cells to absorb the secondary yolk. 



5. The axial gut and its principal branches are formed by ingrowths 

 from the embryonic layer, dividing up the central space which is filled 

 with secondary yolk (y^). 



6. Ectoderm, endoderm, permanent pharynx, eyes, nervous system, 

 reproductive organs, gland- and muscle-cells are ah formed by direct 

 differentiation of the embryonic cells of the ojie embryonic or germ- 

 layer. There is no formation of two or three distinct germ layers, 

 nor are anj- of the organs formed by folding as in most other forms. 



Literature, 



Curtis, W. C. '00. On the Reproductive Sj^stem of Planaria slmplissima, :-. 

 new species. Zool. Jahrb., Bd. 13, 1900. 



'02. The hfe history, the normal fission, and the reproductive organs o;" 



Planaria maculata. Proc. of Boston Soc. of Nat. Hist., Vol. 30, 1902. 



Hallez, p. '79. Contributions a I'histoire naturelle des TurbeUaries. Tra'-. 



de Vinstitut zool. de Lille, Fasc. 2, 1879. 

 Ijima, I. '84. Untersuchungen iiber den Bau und die Entwicklungsgeschichte 



der siisswasser-Dendrocoelen (Tricladen). Zeit. f. wiss. Zool, Bd. 40, 1884. 

 Kennel, J. VON. '79. Die in Deutsclilandgefundenen Land-planarien, u. s. w. 



Arb. Zool. Inst. Wiirzburg, Bd. 5, 1879. 

 Metschnikoff, E. 'S3. Die Embryologie von Planaria polychroa. Zeit. j. 



iviss. Zool., Bd. 38, 1883. 

 Schmidt, 0. '59. Die dendrocoelen Strudelwiirmer aus der Umgebung von 



Graz. Zeit. /. u't.ss. Zool., Bd. X, 1859. 



'61. Untersuchungen liber Turbellarien von Corfu u. Cephalon. Ibid.. 



Bd. XI, 1861. 



'61. Uber Planaria torva, auct. Ibid. 



Stevens N. M. '01. Notes on regeneration in Planaria lugubns. Arch. f. 

 Entwickelungsmech., Bd. VIII, 1901. 



Description of Plates XIII, XIV, XV axd XVI. 



Plate XIII, Fig. 1. — Ovary showing large oocytes and oviduct full of sperma- 

 tozoa (od) Bausch and Lamb, obj. ^ in., oc. C, camera. 



Fig. 2, a and b. — Ovarian egg showing first maturation-spindle with S 

 chromosomes, y = yolk granule. B. and L. -^-C. 



Fig. 3, a and b. — Same as above with 6 daughter chromosomes. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Fig. 4. — Same with 4 cliromosomes (a part of one chromosome in next 

 section). 



Fig. 5, a and h. — Egg from section of a capsule before laying, showing second 

 maturation-spindle and 3 chromosomes, s = sperm. 



Fig. 6. — Same as above, showing first polar body and 3 chromosomes. 



Fig. 7. — Somatic cell from a regenerating piece of Planaria lugubris, showing 

 6 chromosomes. B. and L. ju-C. 



Fig. 8. Egg from a capsule before laying, stained with Schneider's aceto- 

 carmine. p^ = 1st polar body, p'^ = chromosomes of 2d polar body, 

 s = sperm, e = egg-chromosomes. B. and L. |-C. 



Fig. 9. — Similar egg with 6 egg-chromosomes (e) and 6 chromosomes for 

 the 2d polar body (p^). 



Fig. 10. — Egg from same capsule as 9, showing longitudinal division at a 

 and b. 



Fig. 11. — Similar egg showing 2d polar body (p^), sperm (s) and egg-chromo- 

 somes (e). 



Fig. 12. — Egg from capsule just laid showing pronuclei. 



Fig. 13. — Egg from capsule 3-4 hours after laying, showing pronuclei fused 

 but nucleoli distinct. 



Fig. 14a.- — Egg from a capsule 8-10 hours after laying, showing first seg- 

 mentation-spindle with 6 cliromosomes at each pole. 



Fig. 146. — Optical cross-section of polar plate, showing two cross-sections 

 of each of the 6 chromosomes. 



Figs. 33-35. — 2-celled, 4-celled and 8-celled stages from sections of capsules, 

 showing the peculiar relative positions of the blastomeres. Fig. 35 

 is a reconstruction from five sections. B. and L. |-C. 



Fig. 36. — Section of a 32(?)-celled stage, yolk-cells breaking down at x, x. 

 B. and L. J-C. 



Plate XIV, Fig. 15. — One-half of a cross-section of an unusually large testis. 

 a = dividing spermatogonium, b = small spermatagonium after di\i- 

 sion. c = resting spermatgonium. d = resting spermatocyte of the 

 first order, e = first maturation division. / = second maturation 

 division. g= young spermatids, /i, i. A; = spermatids in later stages. 

 I == spermatid apparently twice the usual size, m = spermatozoa. 

 n = empty spermatid cells. B. and L. ^-C. 



Figs. 16-21. — Various phases of first maturation divisions, showing 3 and 

 4 chromosomes. B. and L. rj— C. 



Figs. 22 and 23. — Second maturation division. 



Figs. 24-29. — Spermatids in various stages. 



Figs. 30-31. — Spermatozoa from the testis. 



Fig. 32. — Spermatozoon from the oviduct near the ovary. B. and L. xV~C. 



Plate XV, Fig. 37.— Section of a slightly later stage (64-celled)(?), showing an 

 irregular mass of blastomeres (b), a definite embryonic yolk-area (y') 

 and a region of disintegrating yolk-cells (a). B. and L. ^-C. 



Fig. 38. — Section of a still later stage, showing larger embryonic area con- 

 taining yolk-nuclei (i/), yolk-cells (i/), wandering blastomeres (6), 

 and the beginning of the embryonic pharynx (p'). Same magnif. 



Fig. 39. — Cross-section through the central cells (b) of an embryonic pharynx 

 (pi), well-developed, but not yet functional, c = muscle-cells, 

 yi = yolk-nucleus, bl. = blastomeres scattered in the yolk of the 

 embryonic area, e = flattened blastomere on the surface of embryo. 



Fig. 40. — Longitudinal-section through an embryonic pharynx of the same 

 age as 39. a = two of the 4 large surface cells bounding the lumen. 

 b = two of 4 central cells, c = muscle-cells, d = two of the 4 inner 

 lumen-cells, e = a blastomere partly on the surface of the embryo. 

 7j^ = yolk-nucleus. B. and L. ^C. 



Fig. 41. — Cross-section of the 4 inner lumen-cells of the embryo shown in 

 Fig. 39. 



Fig. 42. — Functional pharjmx, lumen open and yollv-cells entering. Same 

 magnif. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Fig. 43 — Section of embryo which has sucked in a large amount of yolk (y^) 

 but is still surrounded by yolk, p^ = functional phar^mx closed. 

 & == a blastomere in embryonic layer, y^ = yolk-nucleus of embry- 

 onic layer. B. and L. 1-C 



Fig. 44. — Section of embryo from a capsule where all the yolk has been ab- 

 sorbed, embryo somewhat flattened. ]/ = yolk taken in by pharynx. 



Fig. 45.— Part of a section of an older embryo showing blastomeres filling 

 the embryonic layer, slightly thicker ventral side, and degenerating 

 embryonic pharynx (p'). 



Fig. 46. — Small part of section from same embryo showing dividing blasto- 

 meres or embryonic cells, very little yolk and few j^olk-nuclei (t/) 

 among the embryonic cells. B. and L. 3— C. 



Fig. 47. — Later embryo (4th day) showing a very early stage in the forma- 

 tion of the permanent pharynx (p^). e == ectoderm-cell containing 

 pigment and rhabdites. r = rliabdite-cell. B. and L. 1-C. 



Fig. 48. — ^Sections from an older embryo (6th day) showing later stage of the 

 pharynx (p-), well-developed ectoderm, and stands of embryonic 

 cells beginning to divide off the central yolk-region into axial gut 

 and its branches, a = endoderm-cells beginning to take in yollc- 

 cells. e = very young eye, optic cup of about 5 pigmented cells. 

 n = first appearance of nerve-cord. 



Plate XVI, Fig. 49.— The same as fig. 48. 



Fig. 50. — Another section of pharynx (p^) from same embrj'o. 



Fig. 51. — Section from same embryo, showing endoderm-cells (e) sending 

 out processes among the yolk-cells (//-). B. and L. i-C. 



Fig. 52. — Section from an older embryo (7-8 days) showing older eye (e), 

 larger nerve-cord (n) and formation of gut more advanced. 



Fig. 53. — Cross-section of 12th day embryo ready to hatch, showing well- 

 developed pharjTix (p-) and gut still filled with yolk-cells {y'^). B. 

 and L. 1-C. 



Fig. 54. — Another section from same embryo showing well-developed eyes 

 and brain (To) 



Figs. 55-56. — -Endoderm-cells containing large masses of yolk (y-), from 

 same embryo as Fig. 53. B. and L. x'— C. 



Fig. 57. — Similar endoderm-cell from a young planarian one day old, yolk 

 considerably disintegrated. 



Fig. 58. — Longitudinal section of young planarian, one day old, tail-region 

 shorter than in adult, (e = eye. h = brain, g = gut. p- = pha- 

 rynx B. and L. 1-a. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 221 



February 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Seventy-eight persons present. 



The PubHcation Committee reported that the following communica- 

 tions had been received : 



"The Fossil Land Shells of Bermuda," by Addison Gulick (February 



3). 



"Xew, Little Known and Typical Berycoid Fishes," b}^ Henrj^ W. 

 Fowler (February 8). 



"Description of a new Race of Notropis chalybseus from Xew 

 Jersey," by Henry W. Fowler (February 8). 



"The Larval Eye of Chiton," by Harold Heath (February 10). 



Prof. Arthur W. Goodspeed made a communication on radium 

 and the relation of its phenomena to general physical laws, especially 

 those of radiant matter. (No abstract.) 



The following were accepted for publication : 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



NEW, LITTLE KNOWN AND TYPICAL BERYCOID FISHES. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The specimens used in the preparation of this paper are all contained 

 in the collection of the Academy except when otherwise stated. 



HOLOCENTHRID^. 

 Myripristis jacobus Cuvier. 



Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 1829, p. 121. Martinique. (M. Achard.) Br^sil 



(M. Delalande.) Havane. (M„ Desmarest.) 

 Rhinobenjx chryseus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XIV, 1871, 



p 464, fig, St. Croix. (Thos. Davidson.) 



Two examples, types of Rhinoberyx chryseus Cope. 



Myripristis berndti Jordan and Evermann. 



BuU. U. S. Fish Comm., 1902 (1903), p. 170. Honolulu. (U. S. Fish 



Comm.) 

 Myripristis murdjan Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 501. 



Sandwich Islands. (Dr. Benjamin Sharp.) (Not of Forskal.) 



A co-type of Myripristis berndti Jordan and Evermann agrees with 

 the example collected by Dr. Sharp. Two examples from Cocos Island, 

 Galapagos Islands, collected by Messrs. Heller and Snodgrass, also 

 appear to be the same species. 

 Myripristis murdjan (Forskil). 



Scioena murdjan Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 48. Diiddae. 



Head 2f ; depth 2i; D. X, I, i, 12; A. IV, i, 11; P. I, 14; V. I, 5; 

 scales 29 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 more continued on 

 latter; about 9 scales before spinous dorsal, 3 between latter's origin 

 and lateral line, and 6 between latter and origin of anal; width of head 

 1^ in its length; mandible Ij'^^ ; first dorsal spine 3f ; second 2^; third 

 2; eleventh 3§; first developed dorsal ray 1| ; third anal spine 2f; sec- 

 ond developed anal ray If; upper caudal lobe H; pectoral 1^; ventral 

 1^; ventral spine 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; snout 4f in 

 head measured from its tip; eye 2^; maxillary If; interorbital space 



Body deep, compressed, and greatest depth near tip of ventral spine. 

 Upper profile from tip of snout to middle of dorsal evenly convex. 

 Greatest width of body not equal to that of head. Caudal peduncle 

 small, compressed, and its depth about equal to its length. 



Head large, obtuse in front, its depth greater than its length. Snout 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



steep, broad, obtuse, incised in front, and with a similar shaped upper 

 jaw projecting. Eye large, high, and almost impinging on upper pro- 

 iile. Mouth superior, oblique, and gape reaching about opposite 

 nostril. Maxillary large, broadly expanded distally till If in eye, and 

 reaching a little beyond its center. Jaws strong, and heavy mandible 

 protruding when mouth is closed. Only lower lip developed, laterally 

 thick and fleshy. Teeth injjaws fine, in broad bands, those in outer 

 series short, enlarged, and truncate. At symphyseal knob of mandible 

 conspicuous patches of such teeth, those on dental surface well sepa- 

 rated, and others also on lower'surface of each ramus. Tongue broad, 

 pointed, and free. Suborbital rim narrow. Nostril large, vertical, 

 close to front of and midway in height of orbit. Interorbital space 

 rather narrow, slightly convex, and with two broad flattened longi- 

 tudinal ridges. Opercle with a strong spine. Margins of bones of 

 head serrate. 



Gill-opening deep, extending forward below front margin of eye. 

 Rakers long, slender, compressed, longest longer than filaments or 

 about 2^ in orbit. Pseudobranchise longer than filaments, nearly 

 equal to diameter of pupil. Branchiostegal rays large, broad at bases. 

 Isthmus short, and membrane with narrow fold across. 



Scales large, strongly ctenoid, and rather narrowly imbricated on 

 side. Scales along bases of dorsal and anal spinescent, but not 

 extending on fins. Caudal covered with small scales, except margins. 

 Base of pectoral with small scales. Ventral without scales except 

 pointed axillary scale. No flap between bases of these fins. Oper- 

 cles and cheek scaly, in 4 rows on latter, and rest of head naked. 

 Lateral line concurrent with margin of basal scales of dorsal, then 

 obliquely down across upper side of caudal peduncle to middle of 

 base of caudal. 



Origin of spinous dorsal beginning a little behind that of pectoral, 

 heteracanthous, and graduated down from fifth to penultimate, which 

 is shortest. Soft dorsal inserted a little in advance of origin of soft 

 anal, its first developed ray longest, and margin of fin straight from 

 this to last which is shortest, or about ^ its length. Third anal spine 

 larger, though shorter than fourth. Soft anal like soft dorsal, second 

 developed ray longest, and last about 2f in its length. Caudal deeply 

 forked, with pointed lobes. Pectoral small, and inserted over ventral. 

 Ventral large, spine straight and reaching about half way, and rest of 

 fin reaching about | of distance to origin of anal. 



Color when fresh in arrack rosy-red, deeper above. Base of spinous 

 dorsal pale rosy-red, and upper margin broadly pale orange-yellow. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Base of soft dorsal pale rosy-red. also same of anal and caudal. First 

 and second rays of soft dorsal and anal, also outer caudal rays, pale 

 gray or dull white. Tips of anterior dorsal and anal rays just behind 

 pale edge, also tips of caudal lobes, blackish. Other fins more or less 

 pale orange. Pectoral and ventral pale rosy, latter with a whitish 

 margin. Axil of pectoral deep brown. Upper edge of opercle deep 

 blackish-brown. Iris with a broad deep brown vertical band continu- 

 ous below. Peritoneum black. 



Length 8| inches. 



A single example from Padang, Sumatra. Coll. A. C. Harrison. Jr.. 

 and Dr. H. M. Hiller. 



According to RiippelP and Day- the iris is marked with a rather 

 large broad black vertical bar. Bleeker has described a form which 

 he identified Avith M. murdjan^ but no mention is made of this ocular 

 bar, or is it shown on his figure. Dr. Gilnther has indicated a dark 

 blotch on the upper part of the iris in his.* 



Myripristis chryseres Jordan and Evermann. 



L. c, p. 171. Hilo, Honolulu. (U. S. Fish Comm.) 



Co-type of Myripristis chryseres Jordan and Evermann with a rather 

 large dark blotch on iris above pupil. Dr. Giinther's figure of M. 

 niurcljarf is probably this species, though it differs in the dark spot 

 above pectoral axil. It also shows about 35 scales in lateral line to 

 base of caudal. 



Myripristis argyromus Jordan and Evermann. 



L. c, p. 172. Hilo, Honolulu. (U. S. Fish Comm.) 



Myripristis murdjan Fowler, I. c, p. 501. Sandwich Islands. (^Dr. J. K. 

 ToA\Tisend.) (Not of Forskal.) 



The example in Dr. Townsend's collection appears to belong to this 



species. 



HOLOTRACHYS Giinther. 

 .Tourn. Mus. Godcf. (Fische der Siidsee), III, 1S74, p. 93 (lima). 

 Holotrachys lima (Valenciennes). 



Myripristis lima Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., VII, 1831, p. 371. Islc-de- 

 France. (M. Dussumier.) 



One from Hawaiian Islands. Dr. J. K. Townscnd. 



^ Atlas zu der Reise im nordlichen Afrika, Fisch., 1828, p. 86, PI, 23, fig. 2. 

 ' Fishes of India, II, 1876, p. 170, PI. 41, fig. 2. 



KXat.Tijds.Ned.Ind., IV, 1853, p. 109. Amboina.— Ved. Tijds. Dierh., 

 IV, 1874, p. 188. Java; Cocos; Batu; Celebes; Amboina; Cerani; Goram. 

 * Journ. Mus. Godef. (Fisclie der Siid«ee), IV, 1875, PI. 61. 

 '" L. c. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



HOLOCENTHRUS Scopoli. 

 The original orthography, though erroneous, cannot altogether be 

 considered an unintentional misprint, as its occurrence is but twice in 

 the entire work and in each case it is spelled exactly as above. 



Subgenus HOLOCENTHRUS Scopoli. 

 ]\largin of opercle finely serrated. 

 Holocentlirus adscensionis (Osbeck). 



Perca adscensionis Osbeck, Reis, Ostind. Chin., 1765, p. 388. Ascen- 

 sionsinsul. 



An adult example from Rio Janeiro, Brazil, agrees with others from 

 the Bahamas. In former preopercular spine reaches a trifle beyond 

 gill-opening, and its upper free margin is about equal to half of orbit. 

 Pectoral If in head, from tip of snout to tip of opercular spine. Third 

 anal spine, from scales, 2^-^. Soft dorsal 1^. Ventrals falling well 

 short of vent. Length \1\ inches. 



Three smaller examples from San Domingo differ in a larger eye, 

 longer pointed fins, and long opercular spine reaching base of pectoral. 

 They also have a more slender caudal peduncle. Prof. W. M. Gabb 

 collection. 



The form called riifus by Drs. Jordan and Evermann is evidently 

 the same. 



Mr. W. J. Fox has called attention^ to the original spelling of the 



specific name of this species which has been ignored b}^ writers. 



Holocentlirus xantherythrus (Jordan and Evermann). 



Holocentrus xantherythrus Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1902 (1903), p. 175. Honolulu. Kailua. 



Co-type of Holocentrus xantherythrus Jordan and Evermann. 



Holocenthrus gladispinis sp. nov. Fig. l. 



Holocentrus diploxiphns Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 520. 

 Tahiti. (Dr. J. K. Townsend.) (Not of Gunther.) 



Head 3; depth 3; D. XI, 13; A. IV, 9; P. I, 14; V. I, 7; scales 44 

 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 4 more on latter; 3^ scales obhquely 

 back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line, and 3 in vertical 

 series between last dorsal spine and lateral line; 7 scales obhquely 

 back from lateral line to middle of belly; width of head 2 in its 

 length; depth of head at posterior margin of orbit 1^; snout 4f ; orbit 

 2fV; maxillary 2f'-o ; mandible 2y^-; interorbital space 3^; first dorsal 

 spine 3^; third 2; second dorsal ray 2; third anal spine If; second 

 anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; upper caudal lobe 

 1^; pectoral 1^; ventral If. 



« Science, 1900, p. 717. 

 15 




226 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Body moderately elongate, compressed, greatest depth about middle 

 of depressed ventral, and upper profile a little more convex than lower. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, and its least depth If of length. 



Head somewhat large, compressed, and upper profile steep, more 

 convex than lower. Snout short, broad, convex, upper jaw projecting 

 a little. Eye large, impinging on upper profile, anterior, and circular. 

 Mouth rather small, jaws about even, projecting, and gape reaching 

 about opposite front of posterior nostril. Maxillary small, slipping 

 below narrow preorl^ital, beyond front rim of pupil or about first third 

 of orbit, and its distal expansion a little less than diameter of pupil. 

 Teeth minute, pointed, numerous, in bands in jaws, and on palatines. 



Fig. 1. Holocenthrus gladispinis Fowler. 



A small patch also on vomer. Tongue attenuate, long, free and 

 smooth. Nostrils adjoining, and close to front rim of orbit, anterior 

 inconspicuous and posterior a large cavity. Interorbital space broad, 

 slightly concave medianly, and with a low obsolete ridge laterally. 

 Head with many fine denticles along edge of cranial bones. Preorbital 

 denticulate, with a large blunt spine in front. Opercle ending in two 

 small spines of equal size. Preopercle armed below at its angle with a 

 broad dagger-like spine equal to ^ of orbit, along its upper margin, and 

 reaching beyond gill-opening. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite middle of orbit. Rakers 

 V 2 + 9 III, longest shorter than filaments which equal diameter of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



pupil, Pseudobranchise large. Isthmus not trenchant, branchiostegal 

 •membrane forming a short free fold across. 



Scales moderately small, finely spinescent, and those on side just 

 below lateral line largest and imbricated somewhat narrowly. Scales 

 at base of spinous dorsal forming a sheath and each one ending in a 

 backwardly directed spine. Scales along base of soft dorsal not 

 enlarged, rather low. Median scales at base of soft anal elongate and 

 pointed. Bases of caudal and pectoral with small scales. A scaly flap 

 between bases of ventrals and each fin with a broad pointed axillary 

 scale. A series of five scales between orbit and base of preopercular 

 spine. A few scales on opercle, and with exception of occiput head 

 otherwise naked. Lateral line concurrent with dorsal profile till near 

 caudal peduncle, along side of which it extends a little high at first till 

 middle of base of caudal, though not extending on scales of that fin. 



Spinous dorsal inserted over origin of pectoral, third spine longest, 

 also next two nearly subequal. First spine a little longer than ninth, 

 but eleventh shortest and joined to first dorsal ray by a low membrane. 

 Margin of fin deeply notched. Soft dorsal posterior, inserted nearer 

 base of caudal than origin of pectoral, elevated anteriorly, margin 

 above straight, and first developed ray longest. Spinous anal inserted 

 a trifle before origin of soft dorsal, first spine minute, third long, 

 enlarged, reaching tip of rayed fin, and fourth shorter but next in size. 

 Soft anal similar to rayed dorsal. Caudal forked and lobes pointed. 

 Pectoral rather long, slender, and upper rays longest. Ventral 

 inserted a little posterior, altogether behind base of pectoral, and reach- 

 ing about two-thirds of distance to anal. Ventral spine slender, a little 

 over two-thirds length of fin. Anus close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol faded brassy-brown with many silvery reflections. 

 Above lateral line three longitudinal pale whitish bands along each 

 series of scales. Below seven similar bands, those just below lateral 

 line broadest. Fins plain-colored like general body-color. Spinous 

 dorsal just above middle with a small white blotch behind each spine. 

 Iris straw-colored. Peritoneum silvery. 



Length 5f inches. 



Type No. 14,140, A. N. S. P. Tahiti. Dr. J. K. Townsend. 



A single example. This species is closely related to Holocenthrus 

 diploxiphus (Gtinther). Dr. Giinther's figure^ shows about 3 scales 

 between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line, obliquely back, 

 apparently about 43 in lateral line to base of caudal, ventral shorter, 



■' Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1871, p. 660, PI. 60 (upper figure). Samoa Islands. 

 (Coll. Godeffroy.) 




228 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



third anal spine longer, a dusky blotch below base of soft dorsal, upper 

 caudal lobe longer, and no longitudinal alternate dark and pale bands 

 on side. 



(Glad his, knife ; spina, spine.) 



Holocenthrus gracilispinis sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Holocentrus diploxiphus Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 501. 

 Sandwich Islands. (Dr. J. K. Townsend.) (Not of Gunther.) 



Head 3; depth 3; D. XI, 13; A. IV, 9; P. i, 14; V. I, 7; scales 47 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, also several more continued on latter ; 3^ 

 scales obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line ; about 

 8 scales obliquely forward from origin of spinous anal to lateral line; 



Fig. 2. Holoccnthrus gracilispinis Fowler. 



3 scales between middle of spinous dorsal basally and lateral line; 

 width of head If in its length; depth of head If, over posterior margin 

 of eye; snout 4; eye 2|-; maxillary 2f ; mandible 2^; interorbital space 

 3^; third dorsal spine If; first 2+; second dorsal ray If; third anal 

 spine If-; first anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; pectoral 

 11; ventral If. 



Unless otherwise stated, all of the characters noted under H. gladi- 

 spinis apply equally to this species. 



Profiles of body apparently more evenly convex anteriorly. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, and its leQ.st depth about half of its length. 

 Upper profile of head more like lower than in H. gladispi7i{s. Snout a 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



little large. Interorbital space a trifle narrow. Posterior nostril rather 

 large. Obsolete lateral ridge along each side of interorbital space. 

 A rather narrow dagger-like preopercular spine equal to about | of 

 orbit, along its upper margin. Rakers iii 2 + 8 iii, longest nearly 

 equal to diameter of pupil. Scales small. Third and fourth dorsal 

 spines longest, subequal, fifth a little shorter. Caudal lobes damaged, 

 their length about equal. ' 



Length 5^ inches. 



Type No. 27,271, A. N. S. P. Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands. U. S. 

 Fish Commission (No. 14,233). 



Three examples. This is the northern representative of Holocen- 

 thrus diploxiphus (Giinther), apparently differing in the slender pre- 

 opercular spine, even caudal lobes, larger ventral and comparatively 

 shorter third anal spine. 



{Gracilis, slender; spina, spine.) 



Holocentlirus polynesise sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Holocentrus poeciloptenis Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1S99, p. 485. 

 Thornton Island, South Pacific (wrongly ascribed to Caroline Islands). 

 (C. D. Voy.) 



Head 2f ; depth 3 ; scales 49 in lateral line to base of caudal ; 4 scales 



Fig. 3. Holocentlirus polynesice Fowler. 



obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line; 3 scales 

 between middle of spinous dorsal and lateral line; about 6? series of 

 scales vertically between lateral line and middle of belly; width of 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Fcb., 



head about 2\ in its len.o'th; depth of head about 1| ; snout about Sf ; 

 eye about 4; maxillary (from tip of premaxillary) about 2f ; mandible 

 2|-; interorbital space about 5f ; first dorsal spine about 5; third about 

 3; third dorsal ray about 2^; third anal spine about If^; second anal 

 ray about 2; least depth of caudal peduncle about 3|; pectoral about 

 If; ventral about If. 



Body moderately elongate, compressed, and apparently of somewhat 

 ovoid form with profiles more or less similarly convex. Greatest depth 

 apparently near middle of spinous dorsal. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, and its least depth about f its length. 



Head large, upper profile more or less straight, and more inclined 

 than lower. Snout rather short, a little broad, convex above, and 

 upper jaw a little protruded. Eye rather small, high, impinging on 

 upper profile, circular, and anterior. ]\Iouth small, jaws apparently 

 even when closed, projecting, and gape falling a little short of posterior 

 nostril. jMaxillary rather small, apparently reaching middle of pupil, 

 and distal expanded extremity about i of orbit. Teeth minute, in 

 rather broad villose bands in jaws and on palatines. A small triangular 

 patch also on vomer. Nostrils adjoining, close in front of eye a little 

 above, anterior obsolete, and posterior a large cavity. Interorbital 

 space rather narrow, nearly level, only slightly concave, and with a low 

 obsolete ridge laterally. Head with many small denticles along edges 

 of bones. A double-pronged nasal spine in front of snout. Preorbital 

 denticulate, with a large broad spine in front, immediately followed 

 by a smaller curved one. A curved backwardly directed spine on 

 narrow infraorbital. Postorbital rim also denticulate, and a little 

 broader. Opercle ending in two rather small spines, upper a little 

 longer. Preopercle armed below with a long and rather narrow spine, 

 slightly curved at its extremity, and equal to y ^ of orbit, along its upper 

 edge. It also reaches a little beyond gill-opening. Serrse along margin 

 of preopercle becoming a little enlarged below. 



Gill-opening apparently extending forward till opposite middle of 

 orbit. 



Scales small, and narrowly imbricated, those forming along base of 

 spinous dorsal not spinescent. Rather small scales along base of soft 

 dorsal. Greater basal region of caudal covered with small scales. 

 Base of pectoral also with small scales. A rather short broad scaly 

 flap between bases of ventrals, and each axilla of same fins with a short 

 scale. Five series of scales on cheek. A row of rather broad scales 

 along margin of preopercle on opercle. Except occiput, and otherwise 

 stated, head naked. Lateral line at first more or less concurrent with 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



dorsal' profile, and posteriorly running a little high along side of caudal 

 peduncle to base of caudal, but not extending on base of fin. 



Spinous dorsal inserted nearly opposite origin of pectoral, fin rather 

 low, margin notched, first and tenth spines about equal, last shortest, 

 and third to fifth subequal and longest. Membrane connecting dor- 

 sals distinct. Soft dorsal inserted nearer base of caudal than origin 

 of pectoral, and elevated in front. Spino\is anal apparently inserted 

 a little behind origin of soft dorsal, third spine longest, broad, and not 

 extending as far as tip of second anal ray. Fourth anal spine slender. 

 Second anal ray apparently longest, first but little shorter. Caudal 

 forked, damaged. Pectoral somewhat small, upper rays longest. 

 Ventral apparently inserted behind pectoral, rather broad. Spine 

 about If in fin. 



Color of dried skin straw-brown. About 3 olivaceous longitudinal 

 bands parallel with and above lateral line. Six others of same color 

 longitudinally below lateral line. They are all rather broad, spaces 

 between but little narrower than their own width. Fins and iris dull 

 brown like general body-color. 



Length 11 inches. 



Type No. 23,277, A. N. S. P. Thornton Island, Polynesia. C. D. 

 Voy. Presented by Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Three examples. This species apparently approaches Holocenthrus 

 poecUoptcrus (Bleeker), but differs in color, as there are no traces of 

 spots on spinous dorsal. 



(//o/uT, many; t-^To?, island ; Polynesia.) 



Holocentlirus thorntonensis sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Holocentrus microstomus Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 325. 

 Thornton Island. South Pacific. CC D. Voy.) (Not of Gunther.) 



Head 2f ; depth 3; D. XI, 12?; A. IV, 7; scales 37 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal; 3^ scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral 

 line; 3 scales between middle of spinous dorsal and lateral line; 7 

 scales below lateral line to middle of belly in a vertical series ; snout 4|- 

 in head; eye 2f ; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3; third dorsal spine 

 2^0 ', third anal spine 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; pectoral 2^; 

 ventral If. 



Body elongate, rather ellipsoid, profiles about evenly convex and 

 greatest depth near front of spinous dorsal. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, its least depth about f its length. 



Head deep, compressed, upper profile a little more convex than 

 lower. Snout short, broad, forming a sharp protruding point in front. 

 Eye large, circular. Mouth small, well inferior. Maxillary small, 




232 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



oblique, reaching near middle of pupil. Preorbital rim narrow, with 

 coarse serrations. Margin of preopercle coarsely serrated. Opercle 

 with a strong spine above, the one just below but little shorter. 

 Preopercle with a strong spine reaching beyond gill-opening, but not 

 quite opposite base of pectoral. Nostrils small, without spines. 

 Interorbital space broad, flattened, the supraocular ridge formed on 

 each side sharp. 



Gill-opening large, extending forward about opposite front margin 

 of pupil. 



Scales large, spinescent, those on middle of side rather narrowly im- 



Fiff. 4. Holocenthrus thorntonensis Fowler. 



bricated. Four or five rows of scales on cheek extending up on post- 

 ocular region, head otherwise naked. Bases of soft dorsal and anal 

 scaly, line of demarcation distinct on fins. Base of caudal scaly, scales 

 extending well out and becoming smaller. Lateral line forming an 

 even convex curve, more or less parallel with dorsal profile. Tubes 

 simple. Base of ventral with small scaly flap. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about opposite origin of ventral, third spine 

 longest, first and fifth of about equal length, and others all graduated 

 down, last very small. Soft dorsal inserted behind origin of spinous 

 anal, small. Third anal spine longest, rayed fin small. Caudal forked. 

 Pectoral small, low, inserted a little before spinous dorsal. Ventral 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



reaching f of space to spinous anal, spine about 4 length of fin. Anus 

 close to origin of anal fin. 



Color in alcohol brassy-silvery, brownish above lateral line and on 

 upper surface of head. Pale longitudinal lines on trunk about ten, 

 three above lateral line. Fins all pale, upper marginal portion of 

 spinous dorsal between first and fourth spines dusky-brown. 



Length 1^^ inches. 



Type No. 23,769, A. N. S. P. Thornton Island, South Pacific. 

 C. D. Voy. Presented by Prof. E. D. Cope. 



A single example, described above. It is in the Rhynchichthys stage 

 and does not seem to be the young of any known species. It appears 

 closely related to Holocenthrus binotatus (Quoy and Gaimard),but differs 

 in the more slender body, fewer anal rays, dark blotch on the upper 

 anterior portion of spinous dorsal, and more scales in the lateral line. 

 It is also different from Holocenthrus hrachyrhynchus (Bleeker). 



(Named for Thornton Island, formerly Caroline Island, Lat. 10° 0' 01" 

 S., Long. 150° 14' 30" W., in Polynesia.) 



Holocentlirus siccifer (Cope). Fig. 5. 



Holocentrum sicciferum Cope, Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. Phila., XIV, 1871, p. 

 465. New Providence, Bahamas. (Dr. H. C Wood.) 



D. XI, 14; P. I, 14; V. I, 7; 3^ scales between origin of spinous 

 dorsal and lateral line; 3 scales between middle of spinous dorsal and 

 lateral line; 7 scales between lateral line and anus; snout 5 in h'^ad, 

 from its own tip to end of opercular spine; interorbital space 3|-; 

 maxillary 3; fourth dorsal spine 2^^; fourth dorsal ray 2; third anal 

 ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 4; pectoral If; ventral H; 

 width of head 1^; depth of head over posterior margin of eye 1^. 



Body rather ellipsoid, profiles similar, and greatest depth about 

 midway in length of trunk. Caudal peduncle compressed, its least 

 depth If in its length. 



Head robust, rather deep, and compressed. Upper jaw protruding 

 a little beyond broad and convexly rounded snout. Eye large, 

 impinging on upper profile, circular. Mouth small, a little oblique, 

 when closed mandible a trifle inferior. Rather broad bands of minute 

 villiform teeth in jaws. Tongue slender, pointed, and free. Nostrils 

 without spines, close to upper front margin of orbit. Interorbital 

 space broad, flattened. Margin of preopercle finely serrate, upper 

 free edge of spine about f of pupil. 



Gill-opening extending opposite front margin of pupil. Rakers 

 moderate, shorter than filaments. Pseud obranchise large. 



Scales large, those along middle of side narrowly imbricated. Five 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



rows of scales on cheek. Small scales crowded at bases of soft dorsal 

 and caudal. Scales along base of spinous dorsal each with a small spine 

 directed^ back. A pointed scale at base of ventral. Lateral line 

 more or less concurrent with dorsal profile, extending a little high on 

 caudal peduncle to middle of base of caudal. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a little in advance of origin of pectoral, 

 fourth spine longest, first and ninth of about equal length. Margin 

 of fin notched. Soft dorsal inserted a little behind origin of spinous 

 anal. Third anal spine longest, enlarged. Pectoral low. Ventral 



Holocenthrus siccifer (Cope). 



pointed, inserted a little behind pectoral, and spine about | length 

 of fin. Caudal forked. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish with silvery reflections. After 

 brownish blotch on spinous dorsal a w^hite submarginal spot on each 

 membrane between spines. Pale or dusky oblique shades extending 

 up from below on each membrane between spines. Other fins all 

 pale like general body-color. Iris brownish. 



Length 3i inches. 



No. 14,138, A. N. S. P. Type of Holocentnini sicciferum Cope. New 

 Providence, Bahamas. Dr. H. C. Wood. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Holocenthrus albo-ruber (Lacepfede). ,, , -d • tv isn"^ no 333 372. 



Holocentrus albo-ruher Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 1803. pp. 333, 

 Les eaux de la Chine. -n i ^^ 



Two examples, one in the Museum of Stanford Un'v«s,ty. Jadang 

 ciumatra Coll. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M Hilter. Alter 

 colarfson with the example described by Dr. Jordan and mysel , 

 rnrOkinawa,Ri«kiu,.Iamm,ahletofi„dany.pec^e^^^^^^^^^ 

 Thev ame in every respect, and the dark bands are stdl « ell preservea. 

 bS figure, does not exactly agree, as but one large distmct oper- 

 cu ar sp ne is shown, and the outer half of the ventral is lavender- 

 e. Dorsal also differently colored, as these examp es are all wrth 

 more or less blackish. Depth 2|. Scales on cheek.n 4 ^ene. Third 

 Tal spine a little shorter than anterior anal rays. Soft dorsal without 



sho^^he ;irl anal spine longer than the rest of the fin an a median 

 narrow gray longitudinal bar on spinous dorsal for its entire length. 



HoloomthrUS ensiter (Jordan and Evermann). „,,,,„ ^,,u rjomm , 1902 



Holocniru. eusijer Jordan and Evermann Bull U |- « (^o""-"- 

 (1903), p. 176. Honolulu. Ka.lua. (U. fa. H^li ^.omm.j 

 Co-tvoe of Holocentrm CT«/er Jordan and Evermann. Two small 

 sph'es on border of anterior nostril, therein differing from other species 

 mentioned in this paper. 



SARGOCENTRON subgen. nov. 

 Type Holocentrum leo Cuvier. 

 Margin of preopercle coarsely serrated. Size large 

 il7U an old name of Diplodus, one of the Spandce; ^i>rpo., 



spine.) 



Holocenthrus leo (Cuvier). ^r . -n ■ ttt icjoq n I'i'^ Borabora. 



Holocentnm leo Cuvier, Hist. Nat. Poiss., HI, 1829, p. 15-. 



(MM. Lesson etGarnotO , g^j pi^il^ 1899, p. 483. 



Holocentrus sptmfer Fo-wler^ ^^o^' ^^," ;'„„j.:Ked to Caroline Islands). 



^C^D^'voyt-^L^c ; rS p. SS'^^sSa (Dr. H. C. Caldwell.) 



(Not of Forskal.) 



Head 2i- depth 2|; scales 43 in lateral line to base of caudal, 



4s^:sbe;;ee;''origin;fsplnousdorsaland.aterallmeobh,uety^ 



SI scales between middle of spinous dorsal and lateral line, 8 scales 

 obi que y forward from origin of spinous anal to '^f- -idep* 

 of head at beginning of scales on occipuWim^telength^w^ 



-T^^i^T^T^sTivZ Mus., xxviTimp. 15. 



« Aitos 7c/ii/i., VIII, 1878, PI. (3) 357 1S28 PI 22 fig 1. 



10 Atlas zu der Reise im nordUchen Afnka, Fisch., 1828, fi. ^A ng 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.;, 



head 2^; snout 3|-; eye 3|; maxillary 2f ; mandible 2; first dorsal 

 spine S^; third 2; third dorsal ray ly%; third anal spine 2; second 

 anal ray about 2; upper caudal lobe about H; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 3i; pectoral If; ventral If; interorbital space 2 in orbit. 



Least depth of caudal peduncle about f of its length. Snout rather 

 long, compressed a little, and upper jaw projecting. Eye touching 

 upper profile. Jaws projecting a little, when open lower protrudes 

 a little. Distal expanded end of maxillary about f of orbit. Bands 

 of minute teeth in jaws, on vomer and palatines. Nostrils together, 

 anterior obscure, and posterior a deep cavity, its vertical diameter 

 nearly equal to pupil. Interorbital space nearly level, with two dis- 

 tinct ridges. Preopercular spine reaches beyond gill-opening till 

 nearly opposite origin of pectoral, and a little curved. Two nasal 

 prongs. Gill-opening extending forward about opposite middle of 

 eye. Scales well imbricated. Scales along basal sheath of spinous 

 dorsal hardly denticulate posteriorly. Five series of scales on cheek, 

 a series of broad ones along posterior margin of preopercle, and with 

 exception of occiput, head otherwise naked. Small scales on bases of 

 pectoral and caudal, extending well out on lobes of latter. Lateral line 

 not extending on base of caudal. Margin of spinous dorsal hardly 

 notched. Soft dorsal inserted a little nearer base of caudal than 

 middle of pectoral. Third anal spine shorter than rayed fin. Pectoral 

 and ventral not "of equal size," former a little longer. 



Color of dried skin plain straw-brown, fins and iris unmarked. 

 About four narrow pale olivaceous longitudinal bands, narrower than 

 spaces between, extending along each series of scales above lateral 

 line. Below lateral line about six or seven faded or paler ones, but 

 a little broader. 



One example. Thornton Island, Polynesia. C. D. Voy. Presented 

 by Prof. E. D. Cope. 



Another example from Samoa. 



FLAMMEO Jordan and Evermann. 



BuU. U. S. Nat. Mus. (Fish N. Mid. Amer.), No. 47, III, 1S9S, p. 2,871 



(marianus). 

 Farer Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 44 (sammara). [Uncertain.] 



Flammeo achromopterus sp. nov. Fig. 6. 



Holocentrus sammara Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900. p 526. 

 Samoa. (Dr. H. C. Caldwell.) (Not of Forskal.) 



Head 24; depth 3i; D. XI, 12; A. IV, 8; scales 41 in lateral line, 

 last 3 on base of caudal ; 3^ scales obliquely l^ack from origin of spinous 

 dorsal to lateral line; 3 scales between middle of spinous dorsal and 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



237 



lateral line ; 7 scales obliquely forward from origin of spinous anal to 

 lateral line; width of head 2yL in its length; depth of head Ih, over 

 posterior margin of eye; mandible H; first dorsal spine 2h; third If; 

 third anal spine If; first anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 4\; pectoral If; ventral If; snout 4f, measured from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye 2; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 4^. 



Body rather elongate, compressed, greatest depth near middle of 

 depressed ventral, and upper profile a little more bent and convex 

 than lower. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth about half its 

 length. 



Head a little large, elongate, well compressed, upper profile obtusely 



Fig. 6. Flammeo achromopterus Fowler. 



convex, and lower but little convex. Snout short, convex, broad, 

 upper jaw projecting a little, profile well inchned and straight. Eye 

 rather large, nearly circular, anterior, and impinging on upper profile. 

 Mouth rather small, mandible w^ell protruding beyond upper jaw and 

 gape reaching about front of posterior nostril. Maxihary rather large, 

 slipping below narrow preorbital, and reaching below middle of orl^it. 

 Expanded end of maxillary equal to f of horizontal diameter of pupil. 

 Supplemental maxillary large. Teeth very small, in bands in jaws 

 and on palatines, also a small triangular patch on vomer. Tongue 

 long, slender, pointed and free. Nostrils adjoining, close in front and 

 opposite middle of orbit, posterior a large pit. Interorbital space 

 broad, and slightly concave. Bones of head mostly with finely den- 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ticulate margins. Two opercular spines, upper a trifle larger and 

 longer. A short broad preopercular spine equal to f horizontal 

 diameter of pupil. No spines in nostril or at end of nasal bone. 

 Margin of preorbital well serrated. 



Gill-opening extending forward till nearly opposite middle of orbit. 

 Rakers iv 2 + 7 ii, longest a trifle over half of horizontal diameter of 

 pupil. Pseudobranchia? a little less than horizontal diameter of pupil, 

 also a httle longer than filaments. 



Scales a little large, well imbricated, and finely denticulated, those 

 on middle of side largest. Scales at base of spinous dorsal with small 

 spines directed backward. Small scales crowded at base of soft dorsal. 

 Base of anal scaly, and at middle rays well elongated and pointed. 

 Small scales also on bases of pectoral and caudal. An enlarged scaly 

 flap between bases of ventrals, also an enlarged axillary scale to each 

 ventral. Four rows of scales on cheek, some on postocular region 

 and occiput, and a single series of broad ones along posterior margin 

 of preopercle. Lateral line with simple tubes, concurrent with dorsal 

 profile at first, then extending a little high along side of caudal peduncle 

 to middle of base of caudal. 



Spinous dorsal inserted a trifle behind origin of pectoral, graduated 

 to third spine wiiich is longest, first and sixth of about equal size, 

 and last much shorter than first, but also longer than penultimate. 

 Margin of fin notched. Origin of soft dorsal nearly midway between 

 middle of pectoral and base of caudal, and base of fin about f its height. 

 Anal inserted a trifle in advance, third spine enlarged, straight, longest, 

 and reaching beyond longest anal ray to base of caudal if not a Httle 

 beyond. Anterior anal rays longest, like those of soft dorsal. Caudal 

 rather small, forked. Pectoral small, low, and not reaching as far 

 as tip of ventral. Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral, 

 reaching about f of distance to anal fin, first ray pointed, and spine 

 equal to f of fin. 



Color in alcohol pale straw-brown. Four longitudinal series of nar- 

 row dark spots, one at base of each scale, above lateral line. Traces 

 of about seven obscure pale longitudinal bands below lateral line. 

 Fins with exception of marginal portion of spinous dorsal, which is pale 

 dusky, plain pale brown like general body-color. Iris dull brassy- 

 brown with a dusky blotch above. 



Length 4^ inches. 



Type No. 14,141, A. N. S. P. Samoa. Dr. H. C. Caldwell. 



This species is related to Flammeo sammara (Forskal), from which 

 it differs, however, in the plain or immaculate fins. 



C'A, without; XP'^", color; -rspw, wing or fin.) 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW RACE OF NOTROPIS CHALYB^US FROM 

 NEW JERSEY. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Notropis chalybaeus abbotti subsp. nov. Plate XVII (upper figure). 



Cliola chah/bwa Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1883 (1884), p. 132. A 

 broken dam on the Batsto river, New Jersey. 



Head 3|; depth 4|; D. ii, 7; A. ii, 7; P. i, 13?; V. i, 7; scales 33 

 in lateral line to base of caudal; 17 scales before dorsal; 7 scales 

 obliquel}^ back from origin of dorsal to lateral line; 4 scales 

 obliquely forward from origin of anal to lateral line; width of 

 head If in its length; depth of head If; snout 3|; eye 3; maxillary 

 3^; interorbital space 2f; length of depressed dorsal 1; anal 1^; 

 pectoral If; ventral H; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; length 

 of caudal peduncle, measured from base of last anal ray 1^; caudal 

 3f in head and trunk. 



Body robust, elongate, and compressed, greatest depth about tip 

 of pectoral. Lower profile a little more convex than upper. Caudal 

 peduncle rather stout, compressed, and its least depth about | of its 

 length. 



Head rather large, robust, compressed, and somewhat conic in front. 

 Profiles similar. Snout broad, conic, convex, and about even with 

 jaws. Eye circular, close to upper profile, and anterior in head. 

 Mouth small, a little oblique, and jaws about even. Lips rather fleshy. 

 Maxillary small, barely reaching beyond posterior nostril or to front 

 rim of orbit, and more or less concealed. Pharyngeal teeth 2, 4-4, 2, 

 and larger ones a little hooked. Nostrils large, adjoining, near upper 

 front of orbit, and frenum between forming a small flap over front of 

 posterior which is a little larger. 



Gill-opening extending forward within a short distance of posterior 

 margin of orbit. Rakers few, weak, and small. Filaments well 

 developed, also pseudobranchise. 



Scales large, not with exposed edges narrowly imbricated, those in 

 front of dorsal smaller and somewhat crowded in appearance. A few 

 scales on base of caudal, fins and head otherwise naked. Lateral line 

 decurved a little at first, and then continued more or less medianly 

 after base of anal to base of caudal. Tubes simple. 



Origin of dorsal a little nearer base of caudal than tip of snout, 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



second simple ray longest, and together with first and second developed 

 rays reaching beyond others or about opposite base of last anal ray. 

 Anal inserted well behind last dorsal ray in vertical, similar to dorsal, 

 and reaching f of space to base of dorsal. Caudal rather long, forked, 

 and lobes pointed. Pectoral low, not reaching ventral or only about | 

 of space. Ventral placed well before dorsal, and not reaching anal. 



Color in alcohol with gromid-color pale brown, back and upper sur- 

 face more or less dusky, becoming deeper on median line of back and 

 each scale with a blackish-dusky edge. A broad black longitudinal 

 band, about as wide as orbit on costal region otherwise a trifle nar- 

 rower, extends from snout including front of mandible to base of 

 caudal where it forms a spot. Above this band on side of trunk and 

 along its upper edge ground-color is lighter like lower surface. Along 

 base of anal a bar of dusky which fades out on lower surface of caudal 

 peduncle. Dorsal, caudal and upper edge of pectoral pale dusky, 

 fins otherwise whitish. Black band over opercle reflected in same color 

 inside of gill-opening. Iris deep slaty. Peritoneum pale brownish 

 thickly sprinkled with minute dusky dots. 



Length 2/q- inches. 



Type No. 19,860, A. N. S. P. A broken dam on the Batsto river, 

 New Jersey. E. D. Cope. 



Also 18 co-types, Nos. 19,861-78, A. N. S. P. Same data. 



This form differs from Notropis chalybceus (Cope) of the Delaware 

 in its more dusky and deeper coloration. The lateral longitudinal 

 band is also broader throughout its course, the pectoral more dusky, 

 and the dusky dots which are collected along the base of the anal extend 

 along the lower surface of the caudal peduncle to the caudal. This 

 is true of all the Batsto minnows. All of those from the Delaware com- 

 prise a large series which I collected in late spring and early summer, dur- 

 ing 1899, in a small stream flowing into the upper end of the mill-pond 

 at Bristol, Bucks County, Pennsylvania. These have the lateral band 

 distinctly narrower. As yet I have not taken Notropis chalybceus in 

 any other part of the Delaware basin. 



(Named for Dr. Charles C. Abbott, an earnest student of the fishes 

 of New Jersey.) 



Explanation of Plate XVII. 



Notropis chalybceus abbotti Fowler. 



Type No. 19,860 A. N. S. P. Batsto river, New Jersey. (Upper figure.) 

 Notropis chalybants (Cope). 



No. 23,983, A. N. S. P. Delaware river at Bristol, Pennsylvania. (Lower 

 figure.) 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 241 



March 1. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



The PubHcation Committee reported that papers under the fol- 

 lowing titles had been received : 



"A Study of the Bats of the Genus Dermototus (Pteronotus auct.)," 

 by James A. G. Rehn (February 26, 1904). 



"Notes on Fishes from Ai-kansas, Indian Territory and Texas," by 

 Henry W. Fowler (February 29, 1904). 



"Descriptions of North American Aranese of the FamiUes Lycosidse 

 and Pisauridse," by Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr. (March 1, 1904). 



Mr. E. F. Phillips made a communication on recent studies on the 

 habits of the honey bee. The subject was discussed by Dr. Conklin, 

 Mr. A. E. Brown and the President. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be printed : 



\6 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NOTES ON FISHES FROM ARKANSAS, INDIAN TERRITORY AND TEXAS. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, while in the above-named locahties during 

 April of 1903, formed a small collection of fishes now in the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The more precise localities are: 



1. Arkansas: 



Rogers, White river basin. 

 Hartford, Arkansas river basin. 



2. Indian Territory: 



Wister, Arkansas river basin. 

 Limestone Gap, Red river basin. 



3. Texas: 



Hondo, Neuces river basin. 

 Del Rio, Rio Grande basin. 

 Devil's river, Rio Grande basin. 

 One form appears to be new, and the color-notes of others are 

 especially interesting on account of the season. 



SILURID.^. 

 Ictalurus punctatus (Rafinesque). 



Del Rio, Texas. 

 Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 

 Hondo, Texas. 



CATOSTOMID^. 



Carpiodes grayi Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XI, 1S70, .p. 482. Probably one of the Western 

 States. 



Head ^; depth 3^; D. iii, 23; A. ii, 7; P. i, 17; V. i, 10; scales 35 



in lateral line to base of caudal; 7 scales obliquely from origin of dorsal 



to lateral line, and 6 from latter to origin of ventral; 17 scales before 



dorsal; width of head 1^ in its length; depth of head 1|; snout 3; 



eye 5^; width of mouth Sf; interorbital space 2|; first developed 



dorsal ray li; anal ray H; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^; least depth of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



caudal peduncle 1|. Opercle with radiating parallel striae. Gill-rakers 

 fine, slender, numerous, shorter than filaments. Color when fresh 

 in alcohol dull olivaceous-brown on upper surface, pale on sides, and 

 dilute or whitish on lower surface. Everywhere with more or less 

 dull brassy reflections. Longitudinal lines following courses of scales 

 pale. Opercle bright brassy. Fins dilute olive-yellow, unpaired 

 darker and slightly dusky marginally. Cheek silvery. Iris dull 

 golden, dusky above. Peritoneum black. Length 12^ inches. Del 

 Rio, Texas. 



Also three others with same data showing following: — Head 41- 

 to 41; depth 2f to 3^; D. iii, 22 to 25; scales to ba.se of caudal 35 to 

 36; total length 7| to 8f inches. 



These all appear to me to agree best with Cope's description. He 

 gives the orbit as 4 in head, but this is probably due to a different 

 method of measuring. If the figure of Idiohus tumidus^ is correct it 

 may represent a distinct form. The pectoral is said to almost reach 

 the ventral, and the radii are more numerous. Girard's figiu-e of 

 Carpiodes damalis^ shows a smooth opercle, large subopercle, and the 

 ventral inserted well posterior to the tip of pectoral. In my examples 

 of C. grayi the first developed dorsal ray extends back about f of the 

 entire length of the depressed fin. 

 Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). 



Color when fresh in alcohol dull olive, inclining to whitish below, 

 and everywhere with more or less silvery reflections. Back with five 

 rather indistinctly defined large saddle-like blotches composed of dusky 

 points. Lower surface of head silvery. Dusky dots on side of snout, 

 maxillary and upper opercle. Dorsal and caudal dull scarlet, margins 

 more or less dusky, especially that of former. Anal, pectoral and 

 ventral whitish. Hartford, Arkansas. 

 Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). 



Del Rio, Texas. 



Moxostoma congestum (Baird and Girard). 



Head 4J; depth 4|-; D. ii, 11; A. ii, 7; P. i, 17; V. i, 9; scales 44 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and 2 or 3 more on latter; 7 scales, 

 obliquely from origin of dorsal to lateral line, and 5 between latter and 

 origin of ventral; 16 scales before dorsal; width of head If in its 

 length; depth of head If; snout 2yV; eye 5-|; width of mouth 3|; in- 

 terorbital space 2^; first developed dorsal ray 1^; base of dorsal l-f; 



* U. S. Mex. Bound. Surv., Ichth., 1859, p. 34, PI. 19, figs. 1-4. 

 2 Ex. Doc. No. 78, Rep. Expl. Surv. R. R. Miss. Pac, X. Fish., 1858, p. 218, 

 PI. 48, figs. 1-4. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



third developed anal ray ly^; base of anal 2i; caudal 1; least depth 

 of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral I2V; ventral 1^. Color when fresh in 

 alcohol dull or pale brown. Lower surface dull milky- white. Back 

 with more or less silvery reflections, and slightly darker even longitudi- 

 nal lines follow courses of scales. Dorsal and caudal dilute dusky- 

 olive. Anal, pectoral and ventral pale salmon. Iris pale yellowish 

 with grayish. Peritoneum silvery. Length 11^ inches. Del Rio, 

 Texas. 



CYPRINID^. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



Adult male when fresh in alcohol dark brown above, and on upper 

 side, lower side and under surface of body and fins white. Lower side 

 of trunk posterior to dorsal brick-red with sporadic clusters of pale 

 dusky above. Dorsal and caudal dilute dull olive-dusky, former 

 with a black transverse streak across its middle adjoining a brick-red 

 streak below. Caudal a little dusky medianly at base. Anal slightly 

 ruddy with a deep brown transverse streak adjoining a brick-red one 

 above. Pectoral grayish above at its base. Ventral wnth more or 

 less ruddy. Other examples are tinged with dull chrome-yellow, 

 and streaks on fins absent. Rogers and Hartford, Arkansas. 



Chrosomus erythrogaster (Rafinesque). 



Rogers, Arkansas. Most examples with bright red bellies. 

 Fimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



Color when fresh in alcohol dull olivaceous, becoming pale on side 

 and whitish below. Body with more or less silvery reflections. A 

 narrow well-defined dusky or blackish band about equal to pupil in 

 width extends from eye to base of caudal, where it forms a spot, and 

 also distinct on upper opercle. Scales on back all with more or less 

 olive-dusky dots and well-defined edges. A small pale dusky spot on 

 front of dorsal. Dorsal, caudal and pectoral dull grayish, tinged 

 with dilute red. Anal and ventral pale, slightly tinged with red. 

 Iris grayish. Hartford, Arkansas. Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. 



Notropis blennius (Girard). 



Color when fresh in alcohol pale olive-buff, whitish below, and every- 

 where more or less silvery. Scales on back without distinct dark 

 edges. An indistinctly defined and rather broad lateral band of gray 

 from head to base of caudal, and anteriorly including a number of 

 dusky or dark-brown dots. Fins pale or dilute brownish, lower ones 

 whitish. Del Rio, Texas. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Notropis shumardi (Girard). 



Color when fresh in alcohol pale oHve-green, whitish below, and 

 scales above lateral line with slightly darker edges. Body more or 

 less washed with silvery. Dorsal and pectoral dilute reddish with 

 dusky edges above. Caudal pale dusky-gray. Ventral and anal 

 whitish. Snout dusky-brown. Side with a rather broad indistinctly 

 defined silver-gray band from head to caudal, and scales in lateral 

 line after dorsal with blackish dots becoming most distinct on caudal 

 peduncle. No spot at base of caudal. Blackish spots extending 

 from posterior rim of eye backward, but soon becoming indistinct 

 above pectoral. Iris grayish. Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. 



Notropis lutrensis (Baird and Girard). 



Dark nuchal band conspicuous. Small tubercles on upper surface 

 of head and along lower side of body above anal very numerous. 

 Devil's river and Del Rio, Texas. 

 Notropis proserpina (Girard). 



Dusky dots at base of dorsal. Caudal bright yellow. Del Rio, 

 Texas. 



PARANOTROPIS subg. nov. 

 Type Photogenis luciodus Cope 



The species of this group closely resemble those of the subgenus 

 Notropis Rafinesque, which is typified by atherinoidcs. They differ 

 chiefly in the fewer developed anal rays, mostly 7 to 9. They are 

 also distinguished from the Luxilus and Hydrophlox groups by the 

 absence of grinding surfaces on the teeth and the broad scales which 

 are not narrowly imbricated. From Orcella, with which they agree 

 in these respects, they differ in the top of the head which is not espe- 

 cially elevated, so that the eye is nearer the upper than the lower profile. 

 Episema Jordan, based on scahriceps, is preoccupied. 



{Ilapaj near; vwr»?, back, and rpoxU, keel, hence Notropis.) 



Notropis pilsbryi sp. nov. 



Head 4; depth 4i; D. ii, 8; A. ii, 8; P. i, 15; V. i, 8; scales 40 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and 3 more on latter; 15 scales before 

 dorsal; 5 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line; 4 scales 

 between latter and origin of ventral; width of head IfV in its length; 

 depth of head If ; snout 3^ ; eye 3^ ; maxillary 3 ; interorbital space 3^ ; 

 length of depressed dorsal 1; depressed anal l^; pectoral 1^; ventral 

 If; caudal 1; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f. 



Body elongate, compressed, rather slender, more or less fusiform, 




246 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



and greatest depth at origin of dorsal. Caudal peduncle long, com- 

 pressed, and its least depth 2f in its length, measured from base of 

 last anal ray. 



Head elongate, compressetl. and upper profile more or less straight 

 from above nostrils. Snout convex, rather broad, and also with a 

 convex profile. Eye rather large, a little above middle of depth of 

 head, and well anterior in its length. JMouth slightl}^ curved, inclined, 

 and jaws subequal, lower hardly if any projecting. Maxillary reaching 

 about opposite front rim of orbit. Mandible rather broad, and rami 

 ]3ut little elevated, edges of jaws rounded. Tongue rather broad, 

 fleshy, and adnate to floor of mouth. Lijjs thin and narrow. Nostrils 

 adjoining near upper edge of eye, and internasal space much less than 

 interorbital. Anterior nostril circular, and posterior larger, concealed 

 in front b}" flap of anterior. Both interorbital and internasal spaces 

 a little elevated, though flattened medianly. Subopercle of moderate 

 size. 



Gill-opening extending forward below posterior rim of orbit. Rakers 

 small, weak, and very short. Filaments about f of orbit. Pseudo- 

 branchise well developed. Pharyngeal teeth 2, 4-4, 2, compressed, 

 and hooked. Isthmus rather broad. 



Scales cj'cloid, moderately large, and exposed portions but little 

 deeper than broad. Except base of caudal, fins and head naked. 

 Lateral line slightly decurved at first, running rather low and straight 

 to base of caudal. Tubes simple. 



Dorsal inserted about midway between tip of snout and base of 

 caudal, second rudimentary ray rather long closely joined with first 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



-articulated which is longest. Anal inserted behind base of dorsal, first 

 articulated ray longest. Caudal forked, lobes pointed. Pectoral 

 broad, falling a little short of ventral. Ventral inserted before origin 

 of dorsal and reaching anus which is close in front of anal. 



Color when fresh in alcohol dull olive-brown above, below dull white, 

 and side with a broad diffuse grayish band. A band a little wider 

 than pupil composed of dusky dots extends from snout through 

 eye, along side to middle of base of caudal, where it is inten- 

 sified. It is also continued out to margin of caudal, as median 

 rays are grayish-dusky. Top of head brownish, and a median brownish- 

 dusky streak on back enclosing dorsal fin and continued to caudal. 

 Body everyw'here with more or less silvery. Fins red, deepest basally. 

 Dorsal, caudal and pectoral with dilute olivaceous-gray on outer por- 

 tions. Mandible reddish. Iris silvery, except horizontal median 

 dark cross-bar. Peritoneum dusky-gray 



Length 3^ inches. 



Type No. 24,514, A. N. S. P. Rogers, White river basin, Arkansas. 

 Collection Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. Also six co-types with same data. 

 After being in alcohol some time the colors have faded. The longi- 

 tudinal dusky band is, however, still present. 



This species is very closely related to Notropis luciodus (Cope), differ- 

 ing apparently in coloration and slightly more slender body. 



(Named for my friend Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, well known among 

 leading conchologists.) 



Subgenus NOTROPIS Rafinesque. 

 Notropis socius (Girard). 



Del Rio, Texas. 



Notropis notemigonoides Evermann. 

 Hartford, Arkansas. 



Phenacobius scopifer (Cope). 



Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceous above, whitish below. Scales 

 on back edged with dusky-olive. Lower surface with silvery reflec- 

 tions. Side of head somewhat brassy with pale dusky dots. A broad 

 dusky-slate bar extends from eye to middle of base of caudal, dividing 

 upper and lower colors of body. Top of head dark brownish-olive with 

 a median streak extending to dorsal and continued behind it to caudal. 

 A black spot at base of caudal. Fins and lower surface of head with 

 dilute red, dorsal, caudal and pectoral deepest. Limestone Gap, 

 Indian Territory. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [March, 



CHARAOINID^. 

 Tetragonopterus argentatus (Baird and Girard). 



Color when fresh in alcohol pale olive on upper surface, sides and 

 lower surface silvery- white. Upper boundary of silvery- white of 

 sides shows a pale diffuse leaden band, becoming distinct and dark 

 along middle of side of caudal peduncle to base of caudal. It is also 

 continued on caudal as several of median rays are same color. Dorsal 

 and caudal dilute pale olivaceous, latter with a pale ruddy wash. 

 Anal with marginal portion slightly dusky and basally with a pale 

 ruddy tinge. Pectoral and ventral also with a dilute ruddy tinge, 

 A dull slaty blotch behind opercle above. Iris pale yellowish. Del 

 Rio and Devil's river, Texas. 



PCEOILIIDiE. 

 Zygonectes notatus (Rafinesque). 

 Hartford, Arkansas. Wister, Indian Territory. 



Gambusia afiRnis (Baird and Girard). 



Devil's river, Texas. 



ATHERINID^. 

 Labidesthes sicculus (Cope). 

 Hartford, Arkansas. 



CENTRARCHID^. 

 Apomotis cyanellus (Rafinesque). 



Hartford, Arkansas. Devil's river, Texas. 

 Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). 

 Hartford, Arkansas. Devil's river and Del Rio, Texas. 



PERCIDiE. 

 Etheostoma whipplii (Girard). 



Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceous-brown, paler or whitish below. 

 Back and side with marblings or mottlings of deep olivaceous-brown, 

 though on latter about 13 diffuse spots are formed along course of 

 lateral line. Posteriorly, and on caudal peduncle, they become ver- 

 tically elongate. An enlarged black humeral scale. Head dusky 

 •above, and a blackish streak from eye to upper corner of gill-opening. 

 A dusky streak from below eye. Fins mostly orange-red with more 

 or less dusky basally. Spinous dorsal with a median longitudinal 

 orange-red band edged above and below with whitish. A bright 

 orange-red bar on caudal next to rather dusky margin. Pectoral and 

 ventral grayish, latter dark. Limestone Gap, Indian Territory. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Considerable variation is noticed. Some examples have few brown 

 mottlings on side, others have them very distinct and wavy. All are 

 more or less orange-red on fins and show greater portion of caudal 

 dusky. 



An example from Hartford, Arkansas, according to Dr. Pilsbry's 

 notes, had the fins vividly colored in life. The spinous dorsal and 

 ventrals were with green spines and rays, the rayed dorsal and caudal 

 with a scarlet border, and the anal scarlet Avith a green edge. 



OIOHLIDiE. 

 Heros oyanoguttatus (Baird and Girard). 



Del Rio and Devil's river, Texas. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



A STUDY OF THE BATS OF THE GENUS DERMONOTUS (PTERONOTUS Auot.). 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



During the preparation of tliis paper a series of thirty-six specimens 

 of the genus have been examined, all being from the collections of the 

 United States National Museum, the Biological Survey of the United 

 States Department of Agriculture and the American Museum of Nat- 

 ural History. The author wishes to express his indebtedness to the 

 gentlemen in charge of the collections of the above institutions for 

 permitting the examination of the specimens. 



DERMONOTUS Gill. 



1S38. Pteronotus Gray, Mag. Zool. and Botan}^, II, p. 500. Type, Pteronotus 



davyi Gray. (Not of Rafinesque, 1815.) 

 1S43. CMlomjcteris Wagner, Archiv fiir Natvirgeschichte, IX, bd. I, p. 367. 



(Part.) 

 1844. Pteronotus Gray, Voyage of the Sulphur, I, MammaUa, p. 24. 

 1850. Chilonycteris Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik CI. Akad. 



Wissenschaften, Miinchen. V, p. 179. (Part.) 



1854. Chilonycteris Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I, p. 74. (Part.) 



1855. Chilonycteris Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 677. (Part.) 

 1855. Pteronotus Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 700. 



1872. Pteronotus Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 

 • p. 361. 



1878. Chilonycteris Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus.. p. 447. (Part.) 



1879. Chilonycteris Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 34. (Part.) 

 1890. Pteronotus J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Ill, p. 178. 

 1892. Chilonycteris Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., X, p. 410. 



(Not of Gray.) 

 1894. Pteronotus J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, p. 248. 



1901. Dermonotus Gill, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, XIV, p. 177. (To 

 replace Pteronotus Gray.) 



1902. Dermonotus Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, XV, p. 155. 



Gena'ic Characters. — Naked volar membranes extending over the back 

 attached only along the median line and across the shoulders, anterior 

 to which section the dorsal surface is normally furred. Skull with the 

 brain-case moderately elevated and rostrum distinctly inflated. Den- 



i-x- • 2—2 1—1 2—2 3—3 



tition 1. 2=72. c. j-^, p. 3-3, m. 3-3. 



History. — The genus Dermonotus (Pteronotus Gray) is so closely 

 related to Chilonycteris and Mormoops that its history is in great part 

 a repetition of that witnessed in these two genera. As considerable 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



space has already been given to the taxonomic history of Mornioops^ 

 and Chilonycteris,^ only such points as differ will be noticed. The 

 genus was originally based on a specimen from Trinidad, and associated 

 by Gray with the following genera: Cheiromeles, Nyctino)nus, Molossus, 

 Thyroptera, Myopteris and Dididurus. Wagner, in 1843, described 

 a specimen of this genus, taken by Natterer at Cuyaba, Brazil, as 

 Chilonyderis gymnonotus, unaware that Gray had created a genus for 

 this type of bat. Later, in 1855, he apparently did not recognize his 

 species as a close relative of Gray's Pteronotus davyi, as he associated 

 the latter, which he, of course, had never seen, wdth Cheiromeles and 

 Dysopes in the section Macrura. The question as to the tenability of 

 the genus as distinct from Chilonyderis later caused a great amount of 

 shifting, the individual opinions of Peters, Dobson, Alston, and Thomas 

 differing as to the recognition of the genus. In 1892 Thomas de- 

 scribed a race of davyi from Jalisco, Mexico, basing it on the brilliant 

 fulvous coloration of the Mexican specimens, and their slightly smaller 

 size. Gill, in 1901, discovered the fact that Gray's Pteronotus was 

 preoccupied by Pteronotus Rafinesque, a synonym of Pteropus, and to 

 meet the deficiency he proposed the name Dermonotus. 



General Relations. — The genus Dermonotus is closely associated 

 with Mormoops and Chilonyderis, which constitute the subfamily 

 Mormoopince. The characters of the genus are such that recent 

 workers have all accorded it full generic rank, and as Gill has stated 

 {I.e.), modern systematic standards would fully allow the maintenance 

 of the genus as distinct from Chilonyderis. An interesting character 

 noted in this genus, as in the two allied genera, is the occurrence of 

 dichromatism. The two phases are quite marked, one being dull 

 chocolate-brown, the other rich fulvous. 



Key to the Forms. 



a. — First upper premolar longitudinal, not crowded; forearm aver- 

 aging 46.2 mm., davyi (Gray). 



aa. — First upper premolar nearly transverse, strongly crowded 

 between the canine and second upper premolar; forearm 

 averaging 44.1 mm., davyi fidvus (Thomas). 



Dermonotus davyi (Gray). 



1838. Pteronotus Davyi Gray, Mag. Zool. and Botany, II, p. 500. [Trini- 

 dad.] 



1843. Chilonyderis gymnonotus Wagner, Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, IX, 

 bd. I, p. 367. [Cuyaba.] 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 160-172, 

 Ubid., 1904. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March 



1844. Pt[eronotus] Daviji Gray, Voyage of the Sulphur, I, Mammalia, p. 24. 



[Trinidad.] 

 1850. Chilonycteris gymnonotus Wagner, Abhandlungen Mathem.-Physik 



CI. Akad. Wissenschaften, Munchen, V, p. 179. [Cuyaba, Matto Grosso.] 



1854. Chilonycteris grjmnonotus Burmeister, Thiere Brasiliens, I. p. 75. 

 [Cuyaba, Matto Grosso.] 



1855. Ch[ilonycteris] gymnonotus Wagner, Suppl. Sclireber's Saugthiere, V, 

 p. 680, PI. 48. [Matto Grosso.] 



1855. Pt[eronotus] Davyi Wagner, Suppl. Sclireber's Saugthiere, V, p. 700. 



[Trinidad.] 

 1872. Pteronotns Davyi. Peters, Monatsb. K. Akad. AVissensch., Berlin, 



p. 361. [Brazil; Mexico.] (Part.) 



1878. Chilonycteris davyi Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 453, PI. 

 XXIII. [Puerto Cabello; Venezuela.] 



1879. Chilonycteris davyi Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamin., p. 36. [Mex- 

 ico; Venezuela; Trinidad; Brazil.] (Part.) 



1892. C[hilonycteris] Davyi Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., X, 



p 410. [Trinidad; Dominica; Venezuela.] 

 1892. Chilonycteris davyi Thomas, Journal Trinidad Field Naturalists' 



Club, I, p. 162. [Trinidad.] 

 1902. D[ermonotus] davyi Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, XV, p. 155. 



[Dominica; Trinidad.] 



Type Locolity. — Trinidad. 



Distribution. — Brazil; Puerto Cabello, "\'enezuela, and Trinidad and 

 Dominica in the West Indies. 



General Characters. — Size medium; character of the volar membranes 

 as described under the genus. 



Head. — Occiput dome-shaped and evenh' rounded; rostrum rather 

 depressed, broad. Ear rather elongate, acuminate; internal margin 

 with the internal ridge very distinctly developed and forming a rounded 

 lobe inferiorly, superiorly with a blunt but distinct shoulder, beyond 

 which infra-median point the internal margin is evenly arcuate, curving 

 back to the recurved and very bluntly falcate apex; external margin 

 carried forward inferiorly to the angle of the mouth, external shoulder 

 romided and median in position, superior portion of the external mar- 

 gin straight except for a marked concavity caused by the recurved 

 apex. Tragus subrectangulate, apical portion narrower than the basal 

 half; external margin sinuate; apex rounded; accessory lobe rather 

 small, subhorizontal, rounded, forming a distinct shoulder or ledge; 

 internal margin inferior to the accessory lobe, sinuate and with a dis- 

 tinct marginal thickening. Nostrils surrounded by a very slight raised 

 margin, and surmounted by a fleshy ridge, which is considerably ex- 

 cavated in the area superior to the nasal division ; lateral portions of 

 muzzle with a raised fleshy ridge, which is separated from the nose- 

 pad by a rather deep incision. Superior portion of the muzzle with a 

 median rounded swelling situated a short distance back from the nos- 

 trils. Labial chin-lappet strongly transverse, the lateral portions 

 rather inconspicuous and merging into the lip proper, median portion 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



distinctly papillose, the papillae bordering the arched incision separating 

 the smooth incisive pad larger than the others; posterior chin-lappet 

 almost equal to the labial in width, thin, closely ad pressed. 



Limbs. — Forearm of medium length, very distinctly arcuate though 

 the distal portion is considerably straighter than the proximal; third 

 finger slightly more than one and one-half times the length of the fore- 

 arm. Femora, tibiae and feet rather slender; calcanea about a fourth 

 as long again as the tibiae. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes rather thin, but very tough and 

 leathery; propatagium deep, extending free to the thumb; endopata- 

 gium and mesopatagium with the longitudinal nerves very regularly 

 and completely distributed, endopatagium attached along the median 

 line of the body by a thin membrane, otherwise free except that ante- 

 riorly it is squarely attached across the shoulders and posteriorly it 

 is tightly attached from the middle of the femur to its margin shghtly 

 below the middle of the tibia; uropatagium large, the calcanea bound 

 down to the tibiae to a point opposite the attachment of the endopata- 

 gium, tail with the enclosed portion slightly exceeding the free apical 

 section. Fur woolly, evenly distributed over the visible and concealed 

 sections of the dorsal surface and also the entire venter; membranes 

 almost entirely covered with extremely fine short hair; muzzle and 

 lips with groups of distinctly setiform hairs. 



Color.^ — General color vandyke-browai, membranes and ears with a 

 shght touch of blackish. It is quite probable that typical davyi will 

 be found to possess a rufous form, as two phases of coloration have been 

 found in almost all the other species and races of the Mormoopinae. 

 The distinct color phases of D. davyi fidvus are very marked, but pos- 

 sibly the more southern type possesses but one color form, or one 

 strongly predominating phase, a case of which is probably found in 

 Chilonycteris rubiginoso. and rubiginosa mexicana. 



Skull. — Rather fragile ; rostrum considerably inflated and somewhat 

 depressed. Brain-case evenh' arched transversely and with a shght 

 longitudinal depression, dipping suddenly toward the rostrum; zygo- 

 mata widest posteriorly and without any distinct arcuation. Rostrum 

 very distinctly inflated, the greatest width over the posterior molars; 

 nasal depression broad, smoothly excavated. Mandible rather long, 

 the ascending ramus very low and weak ; coronoid and condylar pro- 

 cesses low, inconspicuous and equal in development; angle strongly 

 curved laterally and with a recurved tip. 



^ From alcoholic specimens. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Teeth. — Central pair of upper incisors broad with a straight, shghtly 

 bilobate cutting edge ; lateral upper incisor low, in basal outline equal 

 to the median tooth; upper canine slightly recurved; first upper pre- 

 molar subovate in basal outline, the greatest length of the tooth sub- 

 longitudinal ; second upper premolar subpentagonal in outline, trans- 

 verse, cusp distinct and caniniform, internal cingulum developed as a 

 distinct rim to a slightly excavated area; first and second upper 

 molars subquadrate, with the para-metaconoid ridges distinct and high, 

 the paracone developed as a distinct shoulder, protocone and hypocone 

 distinct, the former higher than the latter; third upper molar trans- 

 verse, para-metaconoid ridge deflected internally, protocone quite 

 distinct. Lower incisors obscurely tridentate, the median teeth in 

 size considerably exceeding the laterals which are crowded against 

 the canines ; lower canines erect, slightly curved and slightly tapering ; 

 first lower premolar subquadrate in basal outline, cusp longitudinal, 

 acute-angulate ; second lower premolar very small, circular in basal 

 outline, crowded between the first and third premolars and deflected 

 toward the lingual side of the tooth-row ; third lower premolar rather 

 elongate-quadrate, cusp rather high, acute; molars with the inter- 

 spaces deeply excavated, the paraconid and hj^poconid lower than 

 the other cusps. 



Measurements. — Average of five Dominican specimens: Total length 

 70.8 (70-75) mm.; head and body 52.2 (51.3-53); head 18.9 (18.1- 

 19.5); ear 16 (15.5-17); tragus 4.8 (4.5-5.5); forearm 46.2 (45-48); 

 thumb 8.5 (8.1-9.1); third digit 77.4 (75-79); tibia 17.5 (17-18.1); 

 calcaneum 21.6 (19-24); foot 11.1 (10.8-11.5); tail 20.6 (18-22). 



Average of two Dominican skulls: Total length 16.7 (16.5-17); 

 greatest zygomatic breadth 9.1 (9-9.3); interorbital width 4; height 

 at base of the second premolar 3.9 (3.8-4) ; height of brain-case 6.7 

 (6.4-7); width of palatal constriction 1.3; length of palate from ante- 

 rior foramina 7.1 (7-7.3) ; width of palate including teeth 6.2 (6.1-6.3) ; 

 greatest length of mandible 11.9 (11.6-12.3); breadth of brain-case 

 above roots of zygomata 8.3 (8.2-8.5). 



Remarks. — This form is apparently uniform in size through its range, 

 as Wagner's measurements of the type of gymnonotus {I.e.) are not ma- 

 terially different from those of the Dominican series examined. The 

 typical form can readily be distinguished from davyi fulvus by the 

 larger size and the position and less crowded character of the first 

 upper premolar. 



Specimens Examined. — Five alcoholic specimens. Dominica. [U. S. 

 N.M.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Dermonotus davyi fulvus (Thomas). 



1872. Pteronotus Davyi Peters, Monatsber. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 



Berlin, p. 361. [Brazil; Mexico.] (Part.) 

 1879. Chilonycteris davyi Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 36. [Mexico; 



Venezuela; Trinidad; Brazil.] (Part.) | 



1890. Pteronotus davyi J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Ill, p. 178. 



[Plains of Colima, Mexico.] 

 1892. Ch[ilonycteris] Davyi fulvus Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist., 



6th ser., X, p. 410. [Las Penas, Jalisco, Mexico.] 

 1894. Pteronotus davyi J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., VI, p. 248. 



[South shore of Lake Chapala, Michoacan, Mexico.] (Not of Gray.) 

 1902. D[ermonotus] fulvus Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, X^', p. 155. 



Type Locality. — Las Penas, Jalisco, Mexico. 



Distribution. — Specimens have been examined or recorded from 

 localities from Tehuantepec to the type locality in JaHsco on the west 

 coast, and from Apazote, Campeche, to Mirador, 'S^era Cruz, on the 

 Atlantic side. 



General Characters. — Similar to D. fulvus, but the size is less and the 

 first upper premolar is more crowded and with the greatest length 

 transverse. 



Head, membranes and other external characters as in Dermonotus 

 davyi. 



Skull and Teeth. — Essentially as in D. davyi, except for the smaller 

 size and the crowded character of the first upper premolar. This tooth 

 is strongly crowded between the canine and second premolar, and in 

 consequence is twisted so that the greatest length is almost transverse. 



Color. — Brown phase: Fur above vandyke-brown ; below ecru-drab, 

 the hair seal-brown basally. Membranes and ears clove-brown. 

 Rufous phase: Fur above rich tawny, below golden ochraceous, hair 

 cinnamon basally. Membranes and fur as in the rufous phase. From 

 the series examined it would appear that the individuals are equally 

 divided between the two phases. 



Measurements. — ^Average of series : Total length [20]* 63.3 (59.7-73.5) 

 mm.; head and body [21] 47.2 (41.5-60.5); head [20] 17.1 (16-18.5); 

 ear [20] 14.9 (12.5-16); tragus [20] 4.7 (4.2-5); forearm [30] 44.1 

 (42.5-46) ; thumb [30] 7.3 (7-9) ; third digit [20] 74.7 (71-78) ; tibia 

 [30] 17.1 (16-19); calcaneum [18] 20 (18-23); foot [30] 9.9 (8.5-10.8); 

 tail [23] 20.5 (18-24.3). 



Average of series of skulls: Total length [10] 15.5 (15-16); greatest 

 zygomatic width [9] 8.7 (8.2-9.3) ; interorbital width [10] 3.6 (3.5-3.9) ; 

 height at base of second premolar [11] 3.4 (3-3.9) ; height of brain-case 

 [8] 6.3 (6-6.8); width of palatal constriction [9] 1.3 (1.2-1.5); length 

 of palate from anterior foramina [9] 6.2 (6-6.5) ; width of palate in- 



* Number of individuals in brackets. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



eluding teeth [11] 5.9 (5.8-6); greatest length of mandible [10] 11.7 

 (11.3-12.3); breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata [9] 7.8 

 (7.4-8). 



Remarks. — The slightly smaller general size and the character of 

 the first upper premolar will be found to separate this race from typical 

 davyi. The characters are, however, such that merely subspecific 

 rank should be accorded it. The range of variation in size in davyi 

 fulvus is ver}^ considerable, and does not appear to depend on sex or 

 locality. 



Specimens Examined. — Thirty-one, eleven skins, twenty alcoholic 

 individuals : 



Tehuantepec, Mexico. [U. S. N. M.] [6.] 

 Santa Efigenia, Tehuantepec, Mexico. [U. S. N. M.] [2.] 

 Apazote, Campeche, Mexico. [Biological Surv.] [1.] 

 San Andres Tuxtla, Vera Cruz, Mexico. [Biolog. Surv.] [11.] 

 Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mexico. [U. S. N. M.] [7.] 

 Acapulco, Guerrero, Mexico. [Biolog. Surv.] [2.] 

 • Hacienda Magdalena, Colima, Mexico. [Biolog. Surv.] [1.] 

 Plains of Cohma, Mexico. [A. M. N. H.] [1.] 




1904.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



THE LARVAL EYE OF CHITONS. 



BY HAROLD HEATH. 



In Chiton polii, according to Kowalevski, and in Ischnockiton mag- 

 dalenensis, Trachydermon raymondi and Nidtallina thomasi the eyes 

 of the larvae become clearly defined about the time of the first appear- 

 ance of the shell. They are situated immediately behind the velum, 

 half-way up the sides of the body. Concerning their structure Kowa- 

 levski writes/ "They are characterized by the pigment deposited about 

 a central clear body, and are placed almost entirely upon the lateral 

 or branchial nerves." As the figures of this author show, each ocellus 

 at this time consists of a single cell imbedded in the epithelium covering 

 the body. In later stages this condition of affairs in the young of 

 Chiton polii becomes more complex. According to Kowalevski, 

 the pigmented body, with its clear included vesicle, retains its early 

 characters, but migrates "under the skin and upon the branchial 

 nerve. The ectodermic epithelium, situated above the eyes, presents 

 certain modifications which may be related to the function of the 

 ocellus; its cells are here very slender, more elongated than those 

 adjoining, their appearance is different, and it appears to me possible 

 that these cells play a certain role in the transmission of luminous 

 raj'S to the ocellus and perform the function of a cornea." 



While working upon certain problems connected with the larval 

 development of chitons, I have many times noticed the ocelli in 

 several species. In those forms enumerated above, save Chiton polii, 

 I have traced these structures through all stages, from their first 

 development until their final disappearance ; and after the metamor- 

 phosis of the larva have determined their fate in Ischnochiton mertensii, 

 I. regularis, I. cooperi, Katharina tunicata and Tonicella lineata. In 

 its early stages in these species each eye appears essentially as described 

 by Kowalevski, and this state of affairs continues as long as the ocellus 

 may be distinguished. Under no circumstances does it become 

 subepithelial. In many cases the pigmented cell sinks somewhat be- 

 neath the general outer surface of the epithelium and is partially over- 

 arched by neighboring cells, but these are in no wise different from 

 those elsewhere in the skin and never give the impression of forming 



^ " Embryogenie du Chiton polii (Philippi) avec quelques remarques sur le 

 developpement des autres Chitons," .1 nn. Mus. hist. nat. Marseille, T. I, No. 5. 



17 




258 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



a lens or cornea. There is no reason to doubt the correctness of Kowa- 

 levski's observations, but the eye of Chiton polii is certainly not typi- 

 cal. On the other hand, the eyes of the chitons I have examined are 

 in their histological details essentially like those of the annelid trocho- 

 phore. In the latter organism they are placed in the velar field and 

 are innervated by nerves from the cerebral ganglia; in the chitons they 

 are posttrochal and are situated on the pallial cords. These facts, 

 however, may not be fatal to the theory that the ocelli of the larva of 

 these two phyla are homologous, especially in view^ of the fact that their 

 early development is almost identical. I have shown in another paper^ 



A. Section through ocellus and pallial cord of sexually mature Trachydermon 

 raymondi (6 nun. long). B. Anterior part of nervous system of Ischno- 

 chiton mertensii (4 mm. long); h.g., buccal ganglion; sr.g., subradular 

 ganglia; o., ocellus. C. Section through eye-spot of annelid (Sabella) 

 trochophore. 



that the head vesicle, or the part of the chiton larva anterior to the 

 velum, "becomes transformed into part of the first valve of the shell, 

 the mantle and mantle furrow of the same region, and into the pro- 

 boscis." Now it is obvious that if the chiton eye were situated in 

 front of the velum, as in the annelids, it would be most unfavorably 

 placed after the metamorphosis. Under the circumstances the most 

 available situation would be the furrow about the proboscis, where it 



^ "The Development of Ischnochiton," Zool. Jahrb., Bd. XII, 1S99, p. 630. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



would be continually obscured and would be practically useless even 

 if provided with special tentacles. It seems most reasonable to sup- 

 pose that as the structures characteristic of the chitons appeared in 

 the phylogenetic development, the eye-spots gradually shifted their 

 position into the present more favorable location. 



Pelseneer' has made a detailed study of the larval eyes of some of 

 the Mytilidcc and the related genus Avicula. They arise in the embryo 

 behind the velum and on the base of the first gill-filament. "Each 

 eye is open, that is to say, an invagination of the skin, and consists of 



pigmented epithelial cells The cavity is filled by an elongated 



crystalline body continuous with the overlying cuticle They 



have a structure intermediate between the eyes of Patella and Trochus," 

 and are innervated by fibers from the cerebral ganglia. Pelseneer con- 

 siders that this type of eye and that of the chitons are homologous. 

 This assumption must rest entirely upon the fact that both are post- 

 trochal. They certainly are fundamentally different in structure. 

 Even with Chiton polii this is the case, and, furthermore, this organ in 

 the lamellibranchs is innervated by nerves from the cerebral ganglia, 

 and in the chitons by the pallial nerves. Thiele's* contention that the 

 eye of Area noce and the chiton eye are homologous rests upon the same 

 foundation as Pelseneer's argument. Both are behind the velum, 

 but fundamentally different structurally and in their innervation. As 

 the matter now stands, the theory that the chiton and the annelid eye 

 are homologous rests upon identity of structure ; while the chiton and 

 lamellibranch larval eye are supposed to be genetically related 

 because of similarity of position. 



It is improbable that the eyes of chitons are functional only in the 

 larvae. In the three species studied before the metamorphosis the pig- 

 ment appears about twenty-four hours prior to the free-swimming 

 stage, which lasts from fifteen minutes to twenty-four hours, according 

 to conditions. After the metamorphosis, which ensues after the 

 embryos have settled, these sense organs in at least eight species 

 invariably persist for a considerable length of time. In fact, they 

 appear to remain as long as the shell and mantle are sufficiently trans- 

 parent to allow the light to penetrate, or until the animal is upward of 

 5 mm. in length. Some of the smaller species are at this time sexually 

 mature; while some of the larger forms are only one-fourth or even 

 one-tenth their adult size. 



^ "Les yeux cephaliques cliez les Lamellibranches," Arch, de Biol., T. 16. 

 * "Ueber Sinnesorgane der Seitenlinie und das Nervensystem von Mollusken," 

 Zeit. f. IV. Zool, Bd. XLIX. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE\[Y OF [Marcll 



March 15. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixox, ^I.D., in the Chan*. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The death of William M. Canby, a member, ]\Iarch 10, 1904, was 

 announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled "A Revi- 

 sion of the Mammalian Genus Macrotus." by James A. G. Rehn, iiad 

 been presented for publication (March 11). 



James A. Nelson, Ph.D., made a communication on the life-history, 

 structure, and relationships of Dinophilus, a primitive annelid worm. 

 It was presented for pubhcation under the title "The Early Develop- 

 ment of Dinophilus: A Study in Cell-Lineage." 



Henry Tucker and Waldemar Lee were elected members. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NORTH AMERICAN ARANEiE OF THE FAMILIES 

 LYCOSID^ AND PISAURID^:.! 



' BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



A very considerable number of species of spiders of the families 

 Lycosidffi and Pisam-ida? have been described from North America, 

 but for the most the descriptions have barely diagnostic worth. At 

 the present time it is practically impossible to identify most of the 

 species of Walckenaer, Blackwall, Hentz and some others, because 

 some of their species are so insufficiently described that a particular 

 description applies equally well to a number of species. By far the 

 most thorough work so far is that of KeyserHng. When the American 

 species are better known than they are at present we shall be in better 

 position to identify the species named by the earlier writers, for then 

 the identification can be done by the process of ehmination. The 

 more deeply one enters into the closely intergrading species of the 

 Lycosidai especially, the more doubtful seems to be the character of 

 attempts to recognize poorly described forms. Nearly the whole 

 southeastern section of the United States and the greater part of the 

 region west of the Mississippi river have been untouched by modern 

 arachnologists; with such a hiatus in the material for comparison, it 

 would be unscientific to make sure of the status of species known only 

 by inadequate diagnoses. It is right to attempt, as far as possible, 

 to recognize the species of earlier writers, but not to uphold names when 

 the type specimens are lost and when the type descriptions are not 

 decisive. When all the species are known, the trial can be undertaken 

 of determining the earlier species. 



The Lycosidffi and Pisauridffi are particularly interesting groups 

 because of the difficulties in the way of their study. Not only do 

 the species intergrade closely, but there is very considerable individual 

 variation apart from geographical variation, and the genera are as 

 difficult to define sharply as are the species. No groups are better 

 adapted to prove the idea that the species, as the higher groups, are but 

 concepts, and their dehmitation necessary purely for purposes of de- 



T^tributions from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Texas, 

 No. .57. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



scription and interpretation. What is needed above all, as the pre- 

 liminary to any morphological or Inroad ethological study of them, 

 are full and ample descriptions of the structure— of the external geni- 

 talia, together with the form and proportions of the cephalothorax, the 

 mouth parts and the legs. The number of the teeth on the tarsal claws 

 is of no value, for it is subject to great individual variation, as has been 

 shown by ni}^ student, Mr. Carl Hartmann. The number of teeth 

 on the chelicera is of more importance, but must be used cautiously 

 and at the most as a specific character, for I have found a specimen 

 of TrocJiosa purcelli where one cheliceron differed in the number of 

 its teeth from the other. The number of spines on the joints of the 

 legs may not be greatly subject to individual variation, but in very 

 closely related species it ma}^ differ, as e.g., the spines of the ventral 

 surface of tibia I in Pardosa. Characters of the relative position of 

 the eyes are decidedly variable in different individuals of some species, 

 apparently constant in some others. Again, some species, particularly 

 of Trochosa and Pirata, show consideral^le secondary sexual structural 

 differences. And the epigyna even, perhaps the best of any single 

 structural character, are often variable in their form. 



In the present paper I give descriptions of the structure of all those 

 species seen by me, with figures of the genitalia in those cases where 

 they have not been figured before or where the figures have been badly 

 made, and descriptions of the color and dimensions only in the case of 

 new species or where preceding descriptions were not detailed. Where 

 such descriptions conflict with those of my previous papers, thej- are to 

 be considered as emendations of the latter. In the measurements of 

 the legs the coxse are included; and b}^ the term "height of the head 

 in front" is meant the distance from the inferior margin of the clypeus 

 to the superior border of the eyes of the second row. Onl}^ writers 

 who have given descriptions are included in the synonymical list of 

 each species. All the species previously described by me are described 

 again, but in their structure much more in detail than before; also 

 all the species described by Emerton (1885), except his Lycosa nigro- 

 ventris and Pirata insularis, are described ; and in the Keys all the spe- 

 cies from the continent of North America described by Kej'serling 

 (1876) are included. No species have been considered from the North 

 American continent south of the United States. With great care I 

 have gone over again the previous descriptions of all the species from 

 this region, but unfortunately the following papers were inaccessible 

 to me: Banks (1894a), Blackwall (1846, 1871), Cragin, Giebel (1869), 

 Girard (1854) and Thorell (1872). Doubtless on accoimt of these 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



missing papers some mistakes will be found to have crept into the 

 identification of certain species. 



My thanks are due to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, and to Mr. Witmer Stone in particular, for the loan of all of 

 their type specimens; and especially to Mr. J. H. Emerton, who not only 

 loaned me a considerable number of specimens, but also by correspond- 

 ence aided me very materially in the question of the synonymy of cer- 

 tain species: thus he pointed out the identity of his Pardosa hrunnea, 

 albomaculata and montana with species described by Thorell; of my 

 Lycosa ocreata pidchra with his Pardosa hilineata, and of my Lycosa 

 stonei with the Lycosa ocreata of Hentz. 



In regard to the genera I have employed, I must candidly admit 

 that the delimitation of the genera was the most difficult part of the 

 whole study. Simon (lS98a) has withdrawn both Trochosa and Pirata 

 into Lycosa, wdiile I maintain their separateness, and this because these 

 two genera intergrade no more closely with Lycosa than does Pardosa, 

 so that if Pardosa is to be upheld, the others must likewise be. It is 

 a question of either making one large comprehensive genus, and for 

 purposes of description subdividing it into a number of subgenera, or 

 of recognizing as many genera. In either case the boundaries of the 

 groups, be they called subgenera or genera, are equally difficult to 

 define. A new genus, Geolycosa, is proposed for forms which differ 

 from Lycosa by the length and thickness of the first pair of legs. Par- 

 dosa is composed of rapidly running, usually or always diurnal species, 

 of small size with great length of legs and large ocular area and small 

 chelicera; they are essentially Lycosids which have become diurnal 

 runners. Geolycosa is the very opposite, large forms with strong legs 

 and jaws fitted for digging the deep cylindrical holes in which they 

 live. Some of the species of Pirata are peculiar in forming small closed 

 nests in which they pass the winter, little cups of silks attached to the 

 under surface of stones. They are generally found close to water. 

 The species of Trochosa are nocturnal, living under stones, where they 

 apparently make no excavations. Sosippus, according to Simon, 

 builds a large web-sheeting. Aulonia has the habits of Pirata, and 

 is closely related to it. Lycosa is for the most part nocturnal, and 

 many of the species build shallow excavations lined with silk under 

 stones; others are, in the breeding season at least, diurnal, such as 

 scutulata and ocreata, and these are forms which approach Pardosa in 

 their structure. So we find that the structure corresponds pretty 

 closely to the habit: long legs in the diurnal species, high cephalic 

 region in the running and digging species, and low in the sedentary 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



forms wliich do not form holes; weak cheUcera and short lal:)ium asso- 

 ciated with slender legs; large eye area is found in the diurnal species, 

 while small eye area is associated with tubicolous forms and species 

 with very short legs. So the genera here defined are based upon both 

 morphological and ethological characters. 



Finally, this paper is by no means a comprehensive monograph, 

 but is intended to be a help to the one who comes later with sufficient 

 material at his disposal to make the monograph. 



Family LYCOSID^. 



Trochanters deeply emarginated below at their distal ends. Legs 

 usually in the order IV, I, II, III. Inferior tarsal claw usually without 

 teeth. Eyes homogeneous, usually unequal and in three rows, the 

 eyes of the first generally smaller than the others. Palpal tibia of cJ^ 

 without apophyses. 



Family PISAURIDiE. 



With the characters of the Lycosidce, except that the palpal tibia of 

 the o' has apophyses, that the inferior tarsal claws are usually toothed, 

 that legs I, II and IV usually differ but little in length, and that the 

 four posterior eyes are more nearly in a line. 



Key to the North American Genera of Lycosid.e. 



a. 1. — Tibia I with 5 ventral pairs of spines, eyes of the first row sub- 

 contiguous SOSILAUS. 



a. 2. — Tibia I Avith 1-4 ventral pairs of spines, eyes of the first row not 

 subcontiguous. 

 h. 1. — Metatarsus IV in both sexes longer than the patella and 

 tibia combined, eyes of the second row at least 1.5 times 

 their diameter apart, sides of the head nearly or quite 

 vertical, chelicera weak and nearly straight in front, 

 dorsal eye area quite or almost one-quarter the length 



of the cephalothorax, Pardosa. 



h. 2. — Without such a combination of characters. 



c. 1. — Posterior spinnerets fully 1.5 times as long as the an- 

 terior, chelicera weak with the anterior border nearly 

 straight. 

 (1. 1. — Posterior margin of the chelicoi-a with 4 teeth, 



Sosippus. 



d. 2. — Posterior margin of the chelicera with 2 or 3 teeth. 



e. 1. — First eye row quite or almost as broad as the 



second, labium longer than broad, sides of 



head not vertical in the 9 , . . Pirata. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



c. 2. — First eye row shorter than the second, labium 



not longer than wide, sides of the head 



vertical, head projecting forward beyond 



the clypeus. 



/. 1. — Metatarsus IV equal in length to the 



patella and tibia combined, dorsal eye 



area fully one-third the length of the 



cephalothorax Trab.ea. 



/. 2. — jMetatarsus IV shorter than patella and 

 tibia combined, dorsal eye area less 

 than one-quarter the length of the 



cephalothorax Aulonia. 



c. 2. — Posterior spinnerets little or not longer than the an- 

 terior, chelicera usually robust with the anterior 

 border arched. 

 d. 1. — Leg I shorter than IV by not more than one-half 

 the length of tarsus I, and thicker than the other 



legs, Geolycosa. 



d. 2. — Leg I without such characteristics. 



e. 1. — Cephalothorax highest at the middle and the 

 sides of the head oblique, first eye row 

 fully or almost as broad as the second, legs 

 usually short with short spines, Trochosa. 

 e. 2. — Cephalothorax highest in the cephalic region, 

 first eye row usuallj^ shorter than the sec- 

 ond, legs usually long with long spines, 



Lycosa . 



Genus SOSILAUS Simon, 1898a. 



I have not seen this genus, which was created by Simon for a species 

 (S. spinigcr) from Louisiana. His diagnosis is: "Cephalothorax 

 postice convexus, antice longe declivis et attenuatus, facie sat angusta, 

 obliqua atque obtusa. Oculi quatuor antici inter se subcontigui, in 

 lineam leviter recurvam, medii lateralibus saltern duplo majores. 

 Oculi ser, 2 mediocres, inter se appropinquati, spatium transversum 

 oculorum linea antica multo angustius occupantes. Pars labialis 

 longior quam latior, attenuata et obtusa. Pedes sat longi, metatarsis 

 tarsisque tenuibus longis hand scopulatis, tibiis anticis aculeis pronis 

 5-5 metatarsis aculeis similibus 3-3 subtus armatis, aculeis que laterali- 

 b\is minoribus munitis." 



Genus AULONIA C. Koch, 1848. 

 Aulonia humicola (Montg.). Pi. XX, fig. 33. 



Pirata humicolus Montgomery. 1902, 1903. 

 IPirata mimitus Emerton, 1SS.5. 



Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



£'?/<?s.— First row shorter than the second on each side by the full 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



diameter of one of its lateral eyes, its middle eyes slightly nearer to the 

 lateral eyes than to each other, about double the size of the lateral 

 and placed a little higher. Eyes of the second row very large, separated 

 from each other by about four-fifths their diameter. Third eye row 

 slightly wider than the second. Length of dorsal eye area to cephalo- 

 thorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than 

 long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front less than one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, low and flattened above, highest just anterior to the 

 middle, its posterior declivity describing an angle of 45° with its dorsal 

 contour. Sides of head vertical. Chehcera with 3 pairs of teeth, 

 shorter than the wadth of the clypeus, their length about 1.5 times 

 the height of the head in front. Posterior spinnerets about 1.5 times 

 as long as the anterior, with the terminal joint longer than wide. 

 Labium about as broad as long, rounded apically. Metatarsus W 

 shorter than patella and tibia combined. Length of leg IV to cephalo- 

 thorax ( 9 ) as 3.4 : 1. The first two eye rows project forward beyond 

 the clypeus. 9 palpal claw with 6 fine teeth. 



Comparisons. — This minute species agrees essentially with Simon's 

 (1898a) diagnosis of Aulonia, except that the first row of eyes is less 

 strongly procurved. It differs from Pirata, as I define it, in the sides 

 of the head being vertical, and the labium being no longer than wide. 



Genus TRAB^SIA Simon, 1S76. 

 Trabaea aurantiaca (Emert.). PL XX, figs. 31, 32. 



Aulonia aurantiaca Emerton, 1S85. 

 Trabcea aurantiaca (Emerton), Simon, 1898. 



(1 c? from Massachusetts, collected by Mr. Emert on.) 

 Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, eyes equal, middle eyes 

 nearer to each other than to the lateral and higher than the latter. 

 Eyes of the second row very large, on prominences, slightly less than 

 their diameter apart. Third row slightly wider than the second, its 

 eyes on prominences and directed backward. Dorsal eye area fully 

 one-third the length of the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the pos- 

 terior eyes as long as broad. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front truncated and almost one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, the cephahc portion projecting forward 

 beyond the clypeus, highest at the ocular area. The sides of the head 

 vertical, head narrower at the clypeus than at the level of the eyes of 

 the second row. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth (not 2 as stated by 

 Simon, lS9Sa), slender and weak, their length less than the greatest 

 height of the head, but greater than the width of the clypeus. Labium 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



broader than long. Sternum longer than broad, pointed posteriorly. 

 Posterior spinnerets about t-^ice as long as the anterior. Tarsi w-ithout 

 scopulse; metatarsus IV as long as patella and tibia combined. Length 

 of leg IV to cephalothorax as 4 : 1. 



Comparisons. — ^This genus approaches both Aidonia and Pardosa. 



Genus PARDOSA C. Koch, 184S. 



The main distinguishing characters of this genus are those men- 

 tioned in the Key, namely: Metatarsus IV longer than patella 

 and tibia combined; eyes of the second row at least 1.5 times their 

 diameter apart ; sides of the head more or less vertical ; chelicera weak 

 and nearly straight in front (their length not more than one and 

 three-fifths times the height of the head in front, with 3 pairs of teeth) ; 

 and the dorsal eye area quite or almost one-quarter the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Further, the cephalothorax is always highest at the 

 posterior eyes, and in front not more than one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter; and the legs are long and slender with long spines, 

 the fourth leg never less than 4.2 times the length of the cephalothorax, 

 and very frequently the legs are proportionately longer in the females 

 than in the males (the reverse being the case in the other genera) . The 

 labium is small, not one-half the length of the maxillae, and usually 

 not longer than wide (except in mercurialis, glacialis and groenlandica). 

 The posterior spinnerets are longer than the anterior, and the first eye 

 row always shorter than the second. The d^ palpal organ is usually 

 very large. Tibia I has either 3 or 4 pairs of ventral spines. 



The relationships of the genus are with Trahcea and Lycosa. 



Key to Species of Pardosa. 



a. 1. — Dorsal eye area more than one-quarter the length of the cepha- 

 lothorax, cephalothorax less than 3 mm. 

 b. 1. — Coxse above without spots, middle eyes of the first row 



largest, scita. 



b. 2. — Coxse above spotted with black, eyes of the first row 

 adequal. 

 c. 1. — Median thoracal band much narrowed behind the dor- 

 sal groove, body dark colored, .... minima. 

 c. 2. — Median band of cephalothorax with nearly parallel 



margins, body pale colored, pallida. 



a. 2. — Dorsal eye area not more than one-quarter the length of the 

 cephalothorax. 

 b. 1. — Cephalothorax from 3.S-5 mm. in length. 



c. 1. — All the joints of the legs except the tarsi thickly cov- 

 ered with fine long hairs, groenlandica. 



c. 2. — Hairs on the legs short, glacialis. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



b. 2. — Cephalothorax from 2.2-3.5 mm. in length. 



c. 1. — Stern mn not darker than the cox», . . . pauxiUa. 

 c. 2. — Sternum much darker than the coxa^. 



d. 1. — Cephalothorax with distinct median and sub- 

 marginal light bands. 

 c. 1. — Cephalothorax in front one-half its greatest 

 transverse tliameter, flavipcs Keyserling. 

 (?. 2. — Cephalothorax in front less than one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter. 

 /. 1. — Legs hairy, posterior half of abdominal 

 dorsum with scattered light spots, 



77iercurialis. 

 f. 2. — Legs with very few hairs, posterior half 

 of abdominal dorsum with a row of 

 5-6 large transverse light spots, 



nigropalpis. 

 (L 2. — Cephalothorax without a light submarginal band, 

 and with the median band indistinct, 

 c. 1. — Coxse, trochanters and femora above darker 

 than the other joints of the legs, 



lapidicina. 

 e. 2. — Coxae, trochanters and femora not darker 

 than the other joints of the legs, 



iachypoda. 



Pardosa pauxilla n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 22, 23. 



(Numerous males and females, Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer the second than the margin of the clypeus, 

 shorter than the second, the middle eyes higher and twice as large as 

 the lateral. Eyes of second row largest, about 1.75 times their diame- 

 ter apart. Dorsal eye area one-fourth the length of the cephalo- 

 thorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes wider than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front trmicated and not Cjuite one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, highest at the posterior ej'cs. The head 

 is steep on the sides, proportionately much higher in the male. The 

 chelicera are shorter than the width of the clypeus, M-eak, not more 

 than L3 times the height of the head in front. Sternum longer than 

 broad. Labium wider than long, apically rounded, less than one-half 

 the length of the maxillse. The legs are long and slender, leg IV to the 

 cephalothorax, c? 4:1, 9 4.2 : 1; metatarsus IV longer than the 

 patella and tibia combined. Posterior spinnerets fully 1.5 times the 

 length of the anterior. $ palpal claAV with 3 teeth. Four ventral 

 pairs of spines on tibia I. c? palpus large, quite as long as the cephalo- 

 thorax, tibia and tarsus thickened, two rows of long hairs on the 

 inferior surface of the femur; tibia and tarsus with long hairs on the 

 median and lateral aspects. 




1904.] * NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. * 269 



Dimensions. c $ 



Cephalothorax, l.S 2-2.9 



Abdomen 2 2- .3.5 



Leg 1 5..5 6.3-10 



Leg II o.-t 5.5- 9.9 



Leg III 5 5.4- 9.2 



Leg IV, 7 8.8-13 



Color of Males (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax deep black in the eye 

 region and forehead, this black becoming brown more posteriorly; a 

 median yellow band arises at the dorsal groove and passes back (be- 

 coming gradually wider) to the posterior end of the thorax; on each 

 side is a broad siibmarginal yellow band; the extreme margin is black. 

 Sternum clear yellow, or suffused with black on its anterior half. 

 Abdomen above deep black or brown. In light individuals there is a 

 median yellow band, broadest anteriorly, extending the whole length 

 of the dorsum, bordered anteriorly by four }mirs of small black dots, 

 and posteriorly Ijanded by transverse lines of yellow wider than the 

 band itself. In dark individuals the dorsum is deep black, with only 

 a trace of the median band at the anterior end. Sides gray and the 

 venter yellow in one specimen ; in the others the venter is more or less 

 blackish with a black mark at the genital aperture, and a Inroad median 

 black bantl. Chelicera, maxilUe and labium deep black to yellowish. 

 Legs clear yellow without rings, with more or less black on the first 

 femora. Palpi deep Ijlack. 



Color of Females (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax with the ocular region 

 deep black and the forehead yellow. A median yellow band arises 

 narrowl}' between the third eyes, shortly behind enlarges to a diam- 

 eter somewhat less than the distance between these eyes, narrows again 

 in front of the dorsal groove, enlarges again ver}^ slightly around this 

 groove, and then passes back, becoming narrower, to the posterior end 

 of the thorax. Medio-posteriorly from each eye of the third row a short- 

 brown line obliquely incises the median band. The median band is 

 bordered on each side by a broader brown band transversed by radial 

 lines of black. On each side is a broad submarginal j^ellow band, 

 narrower than the contiguous brown band, which joins with its fellow 

 of the opposite side below the anterior e3'es. Sternum yellow like the 

 coxae, sometimes with indistinct darker marginal mai'kings. Abdomen 

 above quite variable, either (1) with a broad shining yellow median band 

 along its entire length, containing in its anterior half a narrower green- 

 ish-yellow band terminating in a point at the middle, the latter band 

 with four black spots on each margin; or (2) the greenish-yellow 




270 * PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF '[March, 



median band is not enclosed by a broader yellow one, and behind it is 

 either a silvery (or yellowish) band with scalloped margins extending 

 back to the spinnerets, or else a series of contiguous spots of one of 

 these colors, each containing a pair of minute black dots. The median 

 light area of the dorsum is bordered on each side by a broader black 

 band, mottled with yellowish. The sides are gray or yellowish, 

 streaked with black. Venter grayish-yellow, spinnerets clear yellow, 

 epigynum reddish. Chelicera, maxillce and lahium yellowish. Legs 

 yellow, distinctly ringed with black or brown on all joints except the 

 tarsi. Palpi yellow, sometimes with black markings on the femora. 



Comparisons. — This species approaches most nearly to pallida and 

 minima, but differs from both in genitalia and coloration. The sexes 

 are very dissimilarly colored, and sometimes show great differences 

 in size. 



Habits. — A common species, found always near water, the males 

 abundant. 



Fardosa mercurialis n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 20, 21. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer the second than to the clypeal margin, 

 straight, slightly shorter than the second, middle eyes largest, eyes 

 equidistant. Eyes of second row largest, nearly twice their diameter 

 apart. Third row widest, its eyes almost twice their diameter behind 

 the second row. Dorsal eye area almost one-fourth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes slightly 

 broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front not quite one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, highest in the cephalic region, sides of head steep. 

 Chelicera weak, longer than the width of the clypeus, with three pairs 

 of teeth. Sternum longer than broad. Labium considerably less than 

 one-half the length of the maxillse, slightly longer than broad, rounded 

 apically. Posterior spinnerets longest. Legs very long and slender, 

 metatarsus IV longer than tibia and patella, combined ; length of leg IV 

 to the cephalothorax, 6^ 4.8 : 1, 9 5.8 : 1. Tibia I with four ventral 

 pairs of spines. $ palpal claw with three teeth. 



Color of Females (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax above l^lack in the eye 

 area, followed by a broad reddish-yellow median band, which is con- 

 stricted before the middle, enlarged to fully the diameter of the e^-e 

 area around the dorsal groove (its wndest portion), and narrowed to 

 one-half that width behind the dorsal groove. There is a broad in- 

 terrupted submarginal line of the same color, the region between these 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



yellow bands being blackish. Sternum deep black, frequently with a 

 median yellow band on its anterior half. Abdomen above intricately 

 but distinctly patterned with black and greenish-yellow, as follows : on 

 the anterior half of the dorsum is a broad median band, ending bluntly 

 at the middle, yellow anteriorly and brown posteriorly and containing 

 in its anterior portion a pair of short black stripes; behind this 

 band are groups of small black dots on a yellow ground, the more pos- 

 terior of them tending to form ill-defined transverse rows. The sides 

 are yellow with black dots. The venter gray or yellow, blackish 

 aromid the epigynum, sometimes with a narrow median blackish line 

 that occasionally widens to form a spot in front of the spinnerets. 

 Chelicera reddish-brown, maxillce and labium lighter. Legs above dis- 

 tinctly banded with yellow and blackish on all the joints except the 

 tarsi, the femora greenish below. Palpi j^ellowish. 



Color of Males. — Like the females, but somewhat darker, and with 

 the palpal tarsus black. 



In life the markings are gray and black, making the animal very pro- 

 tectively colored; in alcohol the gray changes to yellow. 



Dimensions. c? ? 



Cephalothorax, 3 3.2 



Abdomen, 3 4 



Leg 1 11 13.5 



Leg II, 10.5 13 



Leg III, 10.2 13 



Leg IV, 14.5 18.5 



Comparisons. — This species comes closest to lapidicina Em., but is 

 separable from it on account of the following characters : The posterior 

 transverse plate of the epigynum is always much narrower, and the 

 (5^ palpal organ with a large tooth not present in lapidicina; smaller 

 absolute size, while the length of the legs is proportionately greater; 

 the lighter coloring of the dorsal surface and the different abdominal 

 pattern. 



Habits. — The most abundant Lycosid in the vicinity of Austin, 

 diurnal, and running with great swiftness. Usually found close to 

 water. 



Pardosa pallida Emerton. 



Pardosa pallida Emerton, 1885. 



Pardosa pallida Emerton, Montgomery, 1903. 



(19 from Massachusetts.) 



Eyes (9). — First row straight, nearer the second row than to the 

 margin of the clypeus, eyes adequal and equidistant. Eyes of second 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



row largest, almost twice their diameter apart. Length of dorsal eye 

 area to cephalothorax as 1 : 3.75. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes 

 as long as wide. 



Form ( Q ). — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front 

 truncated antl almost one-half its greatest transverse diameter, the 

 sides of the head steep. Chelicera with 8 pairs of teeth, weak, as long 

 as the width of the clypeus, their length 1.5 times the height of the head 

 in front. Labium wider than long, apically truncated, not one-half the 

 length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad, truncated behind. 

 Posterior spinnerets nearly double the length of the anterior. Meta- 

 tarsus IV longer than the patella and tibia combined ; leg W to the 

 cephalothorax as 4.4 : 1 ; tiljia I with 3 pairs of ventral spines. 



Pardosa lapidicina Emerton. PL XIX, fig. 24. 



Pardosa lapidicina Emerton. 1S85. 



Pardosa lapidicina Emerton, Montgomery, 1903. 



(Specimens from AVood's Hole, Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, straight, equidistant from 

 the second row and the clypcal margin, the middle eyes larger and 

 nearer to the lateral eyes than to each other. Eyes of the second row 

 largest, twice their diameter apart. I>ength of the dorsal eye area 

 to the cephalothorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes 

 decidedly broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior e^-es, in front trun- 

 cated and less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, the sides 

 of the head moderately steep. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, shorter 

 than the width of the clypeus, in length L75 times the height of the 

 head in front. Labium a little longer than wide, not one-half the 

 length of the maxillae, slighth' rounded apically. Sternum longer 

 than broad. Posterior spinnerets longest. Metatarsus IV longer than 

 the patella and tibia combined; length of leg 1\ to cephalothorax, 

 c? 4.5 : 1, 9 5 :L ? palpal claw with 3 teeth. Tibia I with 4 

 ventral pairs of spines. 



Pardosa scita Montg. 



Pardosa scita Montgomery, 1902. 



(Specimens from Pennsjdvania.) 



Eyes. — First row narrower than the second, much nearer the second 

 row than to the margin of the clypeus, straight, middle eyes larger, eyes 

 ec^uidistant. Eyes of second row largest, twice their diameter apart. 

 Length of dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 3.5. Quadrilateral 

 of the posterior eyes slightly broader than long. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, m front trun- 

 cated and less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter. Che- 

 licera with 3 pairs of teeth, weak, nearly straight in front, shorter than 

 the width of the clypeus, in length 1.3 the height of the head in front. 

 Labium broader than long, apically rounded, not one-half the length 

 of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad. Posterior spinnerets 

 nearly 1.5 times the length of the anterior. Length of leg 1\ to 

 cephalothorax, d^ 5 : 1 ; metatarsus lY longer than patella and tilna 

 combined. Tibia I with 4 ventral pairs of spines. 



Pardosa minima (Keys.). 



Lycosa minivia Keyserling, 1876. 

 Pardosa albopatella Emerton, 1885. 

 Pardosa albopatella Emerton, Stone, 1890. 

 Pardosa minima (Keys.), Montgomery, 1902. 



(Specimens from Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.) 



Eyes (cJ*). — First row narrower than the second, straight, shghtly 

 nearer the second row than to the margin of the clypeus, middle eyes 

 nearer the lateral than each other. Dorsal eye area to cephalothorax 

 as 1 : 3.5. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 

 Eyes of the second row largest, separated by 1.75 times their diameter. 



Form (&). — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front 

 truncated and less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, 

 sides of head steep. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, shorter than the 

 width of the clypeus, in length 1.5 times the height of the head in front. 

 Labium at the base as wide as long, truncated apically, not one-half the 

 length of the maxillse. Sternum longer than broad. Posterior spin- 

 nerets longest. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.3 : 1 ; meta- 

 tarsus IV longer than patella and tibia combined. Tibia I with 4 

 ventral pairs of spines. 



Comparison. — This species is most closely related to nigropalpis. 

 The c? of minima can be readily distinguished from that of nigropalpis 

 in having the palpal patella entirely white instead of deep black, in 

 the different coloration of the legs, and in the difference in size of the 

 eye area. But the females of the two are much more difficult to dis- 

 tinguish, and there is no good structural difference in the structure of 

 the epigyna. In the $ of 7ninima it is the usual case that the palpal pa- 

 tella has no dark spots below (they are usually present in iiigropalpis) ; 

 the sternum is brown (never deep black) with a yellow median lire 

 anteriorly and a broader black one posteriorly and with some black on 

 the margins (in nigropalpis in the majority of specimens deep black 

 with a yellow median line anteriorly) ; the femora below usually yellow 

 18 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



spotted with black (in nigropalpis iisiialh' blackish) ; finally the cepha- 

 lothoracal median yellow band usually encloses a broad rcddish-browai 

 area at its anterior end (usually not so in nigropolpis) . Of all these 

 differences the only one that appears to be constant is the first. Min- 

 ima averages smaller in size, but then nigropalpis is very variable in 

 this respect; and nigropalpis has generally the dark annulations on 

 the legs much more distinct, but some individuals of minima from 

 Wood's Hole, Massachusetts, have the legs just as distinctly banded. 



Pardosa glacialis (Thor.). PL XIX. fig. 25 



Lycosa glacialis Tliorell, 1S72. 

 Pardosa brunnea Emerton, 1885. 



(Specimens from Mt, Washington, New Hampshire.) 

 Eyes. — First row narrower than the second, nearer to the second 

 row than the clypeal margin, middle eyes larger and distinctly lower. 

 Eyes of second row largest, separated by fully 1.5 times their diameter. 

 Dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the 

 posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front less 

 than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, sides of head rather 

 vertical. Chelicera wdth three pairs of teeth, longer than the breadth 

 of the clypeus, in length 1.5 times the height of the head in front. 

 Labium longer than broad, rounded at the tip, not one-half the length 

 of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad, pointed behind. Pos- 

 terior spinnerets about 1.5 times as long as the anterior. Metatarsus 

 IV slightly longer than patella and tibia combined, leg IV to cephalo- 

 thorax as 4.3 : 1, the legs rather hairy with weak scopula?. 9 palpal 

 claw with 4 teeth. Tibia I with 3 ventral pairs of spines. 



Pardosa groenlandica (Thor.). 



Lycosa groenlandica Thorell, 1872. 

 Pardosa albomaculata Emerton, 1885. 



(Specimens from Mt. Washington, New Hampshire.) 

 Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, much nearer to it than to 

 the clypeal margin, about straight, eyes adequal. Eyes of the second 

 row largest, about 1.5 times their diameter apart. Dorsal eye area to 

 length of cephalothorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the middle eyes 

 broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front one- 

 half its greatest transverse diameter, sides of the head steep. Chelicera 

 with 3 pairs of teeth, in length more than the width of the clypeus and 

 1.5 times the height of the head in front. Labium longer than broad, 

 truncated apically, not one-half the length of the maxillse. Sternum 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



longer than broad, pointed behind. Metatarsus IV longer than the 

 patella and tibia combined. Leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.4 : 1. 

 Posterior spinnerets 1.5 times the length of the anterior. 9 palpal 

 claw with 5 teeth. The legs and upper surface of the l^ody are thickly 

 clothed with long, soft hairs. Tibia I with 3 ventral pairs of spmes. 



Pardosa tachypoda Thor. PI. XIX, fig. 26. 



Pardom tachypoda Thorell, 1872. 

 Pardosa montana Emerton, 1885. 

 Pirata procursus Montgomery, 1902. 



(1 ? from Mt. Washington, New Hampshire.) 



Eyes ( 9 ). — First row shorter than the second and nearer it than to 

 the clypeal margin, eyes adecfual, middle eyes distinctly lower. Eyes 

 of second row largest, about 1.6 their diameter apart. Length of 

 tlorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.2. Quadrilateral of the pos- 

 terior eyes broader than long. 



Form ( 9 ). — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front 

 decidedly less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, sides 

 of the head rather oblique. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, as long as 

 the width of the clypeus, rather strong. Sternum longer than broad, 

 pointed behind. Posterior spinnerets longer than the anterior. 

 Labium wider than long, rounded apically, not one-half the length of 

 the maxilla^. Third leg as long as the first ; metatarsus IV longer than 

 patella and tibia combined ; leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.4 : 1. 



Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton. 



Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton, 1885. 

 Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton, Stone, 1890. 

 Pardosa nigropalpis Emerton, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New 

 Jersey and Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, straight, nearer it than to 

 the margin of the clypeus, middle eyes slightly larger and nearer the 

 lateral eyes than to each other. Eyes of second row largest, 1.5 times 

 their diameter apart. Dorsal eye area one-fourth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated and less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter. Sides 

 of the head steep. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, weak, nearly straight 

 anteriorly, shorter than the width of the clypeus and 1.3 times the 

 height of the head in front. Labium shorter than broad, rounded 

 apically, not one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than 

 broad, pointed behind. Posterior spinnerets fully 1.5 times the length 

 of the inferior. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax, c? 4.5 : 1, 9 5:1. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Metatarsus IV longer than patella and tibia coml^incd. Tibia I witli 4 

 ventral pairs of spines. ? palpal claw with 1 small tooth. 



Comparisons. — ^This species comes very close to Lycosa {Pardoso] 

 flavipes Keyserhng, and appears to differ from it mainly in that the 

 leg IV is not longer than I by double the length of metatarsus TV. 

 Compare also P. minima. 



The Texas specimens are lighter than the northern ones, and the 

 venter is often without black markings. 



Genus SOSIPPUS Simon, 1888. ' 



The North American species of this genus described by Simon (S. 

 floridamis) has not been seen by me. The posterior spinnerets are 

 longer than the anterior, with the apical joint as long or almost as 

 long as the basal and garnished with fusules on its inner siu'face; the 

 labium is longer than wide and quite one-half the length of the maxillce ; 

 the posterior margin of the chelicera has 4 teeth. The face is vertical 

 only in the plane of the anterior eyes. The legs are long, the anterior 

 tarsi and metatarsi usually scopulated. metatarsus 1\ as long as the 

 patella and tibia combined. First row of eyes broader than the second, 

 the lateral eyes as large or larger than the middle ones. The integu- 

 ment is covered with plumed hairs. The sides of the head are nearly 

 vertical. 



Evidently this genus is most closely allied to Pirata. Thev spin a 

 large web like that of an Agalena. 



Genus LYCOSA Latreille, 1804 (ad partem). 



I have followed Simon (1898) in defining this genus, except that I 

 have excluded from it Pirata and Trochosa. 



The main characters are the following : The cephalothorax is highest 

 in the cephalic portion (except in the d^ of charonoides) , and the sides 

 of the head usually only moderately oblique; the first eye row is 

 shorter than the second (except in inhonesta and in the cJ^ of charo- 

 noides) ; the eyes of the second row are never separated by more than 

 1.5 times their diameter; the chelicera are robust and their length is 

 usually quite twice the height of the head in front (except in the Pardo- 

 soid species hilineata, relucens and ocreata) ; the posterior spinnerets 

 are shorter, or but little longer, than the anterior (antelucana, mccooki. 

 scutulata) ; tibia I has 3 pairs of ventral spines ; the labium is shorter 

 than one-half the length of the maxillse, but longer than wide (except 

 in hilineata and scutulata) ; metatarsus IV is shorter than the patella 

 and tibia combined (except in the c? of scutulata, antelucana and 

 ocreata^. The length of the dorsal eye area to the cephalothorax 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 277 



varies from 1 : 4.5 to 1 : 7. The length of leg IV to the cephalotho- 

 rax from 2.7 : 1 to 4.7 : 1. The legs are usually well scopulated. 



Lycosa intergrades very closely with Pardosa, and the species 

 hilineata, relucens, ocreata and scutulata are quite intermediate. The 

 relationship '^ith Trochosa is equally close. More remote are the rela- 

 tions to Pirata, yet P. elegans has a number of Lycosoid characters. 



Key to Species of Lycosa. 



a. 1. — Abdomen above -vv-ith a distinct, broad dark median band 

 extending its entire length. 



b. 1. — Sternum black, punctulata. 



h. 2. — Sternum yellow, scutulata. 



a. 2. — Abdomen not so colored. 



b. 1. — Cephalothorax smooth, without hairs, not more than 2.5 

 mm. long, 

 c. 1. — Eyes of the second row about 1.3 times their diameter 



apart, venter brown, nigra. 



c. 2. — Eyes of the second row not quite their diameter apart, 

 venter yellow with a few brown spots, 



rugosa Keyserling. 

 b. 2. — Cephalothorax haired, more than 2.5 mm. long. 



c. 1. — Cephalothorax ^\dth a very narrow median light band, 



inhonesta. 

 c. 2. — Cephalothorax with a broad median band. 

 d. 1. — Cephalothorax 5 mm. or more in length. 



e. 1. — Eyes of the second row fully 1.5 times their 



diameter apart, pictilis. 



e. 2. — Eyes of the second row about, their diameter 

 apart. 

 /. 1. — Cephalothorax less than one-c[uarter 

 longer than broad, 



pidchra Keyserhng. 

 /. 2. — Cephalothorax decidedly more than one- 

 quarter longer than broad. 

 g. 1. — Legs not annulated, abdomen with a 

 dorso-median light band extend- 

 ing its entire length and including 

 a dark band in its anterior half, 

 1. lepida. 



g. 2. — Legs distinctly annulated, abdo- 

 men not so colored. 

 h. 1. — Median band of the cephalo- 

 thorax not or scarcely con- 

 stricted anterior to the medi- 

 an groove, . . . mccookii. 

 h. 2. — Median band of the cephalo- 

 thorax deeply constricted an- 

 terior to the median groove. 

 i. 1. — Venter light, euepigynata. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



i. 2. — ^'enter black. 



j. 1. — Legs pale yellow, first 

 pair not annulated, 

 aritelucana. 

 j. 2. — Tjegs deep brown, all 

 pairs clearly annu- 

 lated with black, 



insopita. 

 d. 2. — Cephalothorax less than 5 mm. long. 



€. 1. — Eyes of the second row only one-half their 

 diameter apart, . . modesta Keyserling. 

 e. 2. — Eyes of the second row quite 1.5 times their 

 diameter apart. 

 /. 1. — Sides of the cephalothorax yellow, sub- 

 marginal band very distinct, sternum 

 not darker than the legs, . bilineata. 

 /. 2. — Sides of cephalothorax black or blackish, 

 submarginal band indistinct, sternum 

 darker than the legs. 

 (/. 1. — Legs distinctly banded, dorso-me- 

 dian band of the cephalothorax 

 constricted at its middle, ocreata. 

 g. 2. — Legs not distinctly banded, dorso- 

 median band of the cephalothorax 

 not constricted at its middle, 



relucens. 

 e. 3. — Eyes of the second row al^out their diameter 

 apart. 

 /. L — Metatarsus IV fully as long or longer than 

 patella and tibia combined. 

 g. 1. — Cephalothorax in front little more 

 than one-third its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, almost one-third 

 longer than broad, venter yellow- 

 ish with small brown spots, 



rufa Keyserling. 

 g. 2. — Cephalothorax in front almost one- 

 half its greatest transverse diam- 

 eter, one-quarter longer than 

 broad, venter reddish with an in- 

 distinct dark spot surrounding the 

 epigynum and extending to the 

 middle, . xerampelina Keyserling. 

 /. 2. — Metatarsus IV shorter than patella and 

 tibia combined. 

 g. 1. — Legs distinctly annulated, cephalo- 

 thorax 3.3 mm. long, 



mackenziana Keyserling. 



g. 2. — Legs not annulated, cephalothorax 



4.3 mm. long, . . charonoides. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Lycosa euepigynata n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs. 1, 2. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row equidistant from the clypeal margin and the second 

 row, shorter than the second (the middle points of its lateral ej^es fully 

 or almost as lateral as the middle points of the lateral eyes of the sec- 

 ond row), its middle eyes higher than and double the size of the lateral. 

 Eyes of second row largest, not quite their diameter apart. Eyes 

 of third row about one and a half times their diameter behind the 

 second row. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front truncated nearly straight and in the 

 9 aljout one-half its greatest transverse diameter (less in the c?), high- 

 est between the posterior eyes and the dorsal groove. Sides of head 

 steep. Chelicera longer than the width of the clypeus, about 1.75 

 times the height of the head in front, with 3 pairs of teeth. ? palpal 

 claw with 4 teeth. Sternum longer than broad. Labium longer than 

 broad, truncated apically, not one-half the length of the maxillae. 

 Anterior spinnerets longest. Legs rather slender, metatarsus of IV 

 shorter than patella and tibia. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax, 

 d" 4.1 : 1, ? 3.5 : 1. 



Dimensions. d^ 9 



Cephalothorax, 6.5 7.3 



Abdomen, 7 10 



Leg I, 22 21.5 



Leg II, 20 19.8 ' 



Leg III, 19] 19 



Leg IV, 26 26 



Color (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax with a broad median buff band 

 arising at the posterior eyes and extending back (becoming gradually 

 broader) to just in front of the middle of the dorsum where it is as 

 broad as the eye area; just in front of the dorsal groove it is deeply 

 incised laterally, it expands around this groove (where it is broadest), 

 it is notched behind the groove and from there continues back as a 

 narrower band; this band usually contains two pairs of minute black 

 spots in its anterior third. On each side of this median band is a deep 

 brown or blackish band, in its middle wider than the median band and 

 with lobed lateral margins ; the posterior sides of the median band are 

 edged with deep black. Each cheek has a buff submarginal mark, and 

 the sides of the thorax have large submarginal marks of the same color 

 and of irregular shape, separated by lines of blackish radiating from the 

 dorsal groove. The anterior eye area is black; the extreme margin of 




280- PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



the thorax blackish. Sternum yellowish or reddish-brown, darker than 

 the coxae. Ahdomen above deep browm or reddish-brown, on its an- 

 terior half a slightly darker median band which is widest at its anterior 

 end, has a pair of short lateral diverticula at its middle, and terminates 

 posteriorly in a transverse arc. On the posterior dorsum is a series 

 of four transverse arches, which become posteriorly successively smaller, 

 each in its anterior portion of the same color as the median band, 

 but posteriorly narrowly edged with whitish. At each antero-lateral 

 margin of the dorsum is a black mark of a U-shape, with the bend of 

 the U directed medio-anteriorly, and on a line with each of these marks 

 a row of four to six black spots which extend on each side of the dorsum 

 back to the spinnerets; the first two of these spots are largest and 

 always the most conspicuous, and sometimes all the spots of one line 

 are connected so as to form a broken, longitudinal black line. The 

 sides are deep brown mottled with spots of the same color as the me- 

 dian band. The venter has a band of yellowish extending from the epi- 

 gastric slit to the spinnerets, which is in front almost as broad as the 

 lung area but behind becomes slightly narrower; within this light 

 band are two parallel longitudinal rows of small blackish spots, most 

 distinct on the anterior half of the venter, and never extending back 

 quite as far as the spinnerets. Epigynum deep reddish-brown. Spin- 

 nerets chocolate-brown. Chelicera deep reddish-browTi or black, with 

 black and white hairs, the macula pale red; maxiUcv and labium lighter 

 with yellowish tips. Legs distinctly banded above, less distinctly 

 lielow, with black and buff on the femora, patellae blackish proximally 

 and buff distally, tibiae blackish at the ends and buff at the middle, 

 tarsi and metatarsi blackish. 



Com/parisons. — Cf. L. insopita. 



Habits. — Abundant near Austin, under stones near water. The 

 males most numerous in January. 

 Lycosa insopita n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs. 3, 4. 



(Numerous specimens of both sexes from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row narrower than the second, but the middle points of 

 its lateral eyes more lateral than the middle points of the e^^es of the 

 second row, nearer the second row than the chqoeal margin, its middle 

 eyes higher and larger than the lateral. Eyes of the second row largest 

 in the 9 , slightly more than their diameter apart, not quite in the d'. 

 Third row wddest, its eyes slightly more than their diameter behind the 

 second row. Dorsal eye area less than one-fifth the length of the 

 eephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes distinctly wider 

 than long. 




1904.] NATURA.L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Form.— Cephalothorax in front truncated nearly straight, about 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter, highest at the posterior eyes 

 (in the c? behind the middle), sides of the head steep. Chehcera 

 longer than the clj^eus wide, about 2.5 the height of the head in front, 

 wdth three pairs of teeth. Sternum longer than broad. Labium 

 longer than broad, more than one-half the length of the maxillae, 

 slightly concave apically. Spinnerets equal in length. Legs short, 

 leg IV to cephalothorax in cJ* 3.6 : 1, in 9 3.2 : 1. $ palpal claw^dth 

 6 teeth. 



Dimensions. c? ? 



Cephalothorax, 7.3 8 



Abdomen, 6 10 



Leg 1 24 22 



Leg II 22 20.5 



Leg III, 20 20 



Leg IV, 26.5 25.5 



Color of 9 (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax above dark reddish-brown, 

 with a median paler red band arising at the second eye row, enlarging 

 behind the eye area to a width equal to that of the second eye row, 

 constricted deeply a little before the middle, enlarging again (to its 

 greatest diameter) around the dorsal groove where its margins are 

 dentated, and behind this groove terminating very narrow. There is 

 a broad, interrupted submarginal band of the same color on each side. 

 Sternum deep reddish-brown like the A'entral surface of the coxae. 

 Abdomen above with a large black spot at the anterior end on each side 

 of the mid-line, and from each of these spots a blackish, interrupted 

 band passes back along the margin of the dorsum almost to the spin- 

 nerets ; in the mid-line a series of five triangular and contiguous black 

 markings, decreasing in size posteriorly, and the most anterior placed 

 just anterior to the middle; the remainder of the dorsum is purplish- 

 gray wdth minute black spots. The sides are finely mottled with pur- 

 ple-gray and brown; the whole venter black spotted laterally with 

 brown, lung-books orange, epigynum deep reddish-brown, spinnerets 

 brown. Chelicera black, labium and maxillce the same but with light 

 tips. Legs above and below distinctly annulated on all joints with 

 black and yellowish. Palpi colored like the legs. 



Color of 6". — Like the ? , except that the whole venter is black (with 

 the exception of the lung-books) ; and that the abdominal dorsum has 

 on each margin a broad band of black extending its entire length, the 

 area between these brands being gray with transverse lines of black 

 in its posterior half. 




282 PKOCEEDIN-GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



Comparisons. — This species comes closest to L. euepigynatq, but 

 differs from it in shghtly shorter relative length of legs, in greater rela- 

 tive width of cephalothorax (in insopita less than one-quarter longer 

 than broad, in eucpigynata decidedly more than one-ciiiarter), in the 

 dark coloration of the venter, and in the structure of the genitalia. 

 It differs also from L. purcelli, the epigynum of which is very similar, 

 in the slightly greater relative length of the legs, in greater size, and 

 markedly in the coloration. 



Habits. — Less abvuidant than the preceding, and found in drier 

 localities. They live under stones, where the female makes a shallow 

 horizontal burrow lined with silk. 

 Lycosa antelucana n. sp. Pi. XVIII, figs. 5, 6. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row almost upon the clypeal margin, shorter than the 

 second (but middle points of its lateral eyes as far lateral as middle 

 points of eyes of the second row), its eyes equidistant, with the middle 

 eyes decidedly larger and slightly higher than the lateral. Eyes of 

 second row largest, almost or wholly their diameter apart. Third 

 row little broader than the second, its eyes about 1.5 their diameter 

 behind that row. Dorsal eye area about one-fifth the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes nearly as long as 

 broad. 



Form. — Cephalothorax slender, in front truncated in cT' and some- 

 what rounded in ? , fully one-half its greatest transverse diameter (?) 

 or less {o'), highest at the posterior eyes with the sides of the head 

 steep. Chelicera fully 2.3 times the height of the head in front, in the 

 ? shorter than the width of the clypeus, with 3 pairs of teeth. Ster- 

 num longer than broad. Labium longer than broad, less than one-half 

 the length of the maxillae, apically truncated, d^ ]jalpal organ rela- 

 tively small. Posterior spinnerets slightly longer than the anterior. 

 Length of leg IV to cephalothorax, c? 4.1 : 1, Q 3.2 : 1. In the d", 

 but not the 9 , the metatarsus IV is slightly longer than the patella 

 and tibia combined. ? palpal claw with 4 teeth. 



Dimensions. cJ' 9 9 



Cephalothorax, 6.8 6.5- 8.5 



Abdomen, 6.5 6.5-11 



Leg 1 22.5 16.5-23 



Leg II 21 16 -21.5 



Leg III, 20.5 15.5-20 



Leg IV, 28 21-29 



Color of Females (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax pale brown, with a 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



median buff stripe (white at its anterior end) arising as a narrow band 

 in the eye area, enlarging between this region and the dorsal groove, 

 largest around the dorsal groove (where its greatest diameter about 

 equals the width of the eye area), and narrowed again behind the 

 dorsal groove. To each side of the anterior part of this band, parallel 

 to it and median to each eye of the third row, is a much narrower buff 

 line. From the dorsal groove deep brown lines radiate to a submar- 

 ginal. dentated buff band. Sternum black. Abdomen above with a 

 black-edged, brown median band which terminates bluntly about the 

 middle of the dorsum and is laterally dentate; behind this band are 

 three or four transverse arches, each blackish anteriorly and whitish 

 posteriorly, and between these arches are black spots in transverse 

 rows; the rest of the dorsvun is yellowish spotted and streaked with 

 dark brown. The sides are buff, the whole venter deep black. Epi- 

 gynum reddish-black. Chelicera, labium and maxillce deep blackish-red. 

 Legs above yellowish, femora I and II with an indistinct darker longi- 

 tudinal band on tlie median side, femora III and IV spotted with 

 brownish, fourth pair of legs with a black ring at ench end of the tibia 

 and at the distal end of the metatarsus, these black markings l^eing 

 much more distinct on the ventral surface. Ventral surface of the 

 coxae brownish-yellow or deep black. 



One female (the largest obtained) differed in coloration as follows: 

 Cephalothorax chocolate-brown with the cheeks pale buff, this buff 

 extending back as a narrow submarginal band to about the end of the 

 anterior third of the cephalothorax, and succeeded by three to four 

 indistinct buff spots. 



Color of Males (in alcohol). — Differ from the females in that the 

 median stripe on the abdominal dorsum is much more distinct, and 

 with a buff band contiguous to each side of it. Sternum, labiiuii, 

 maxillae and inferior surface of coxae chocolate-brown. 



Com'parisons. — This species comes closest to L. inhonesta (Keys.), 

 from which it differs: (1) In the first row of eyes being upon the 

 clypeal margin; (2) in the head being relatively lower at the second 

 row of eyes; (3) in the head of the female being rounded in front; 

 (4) in the color of the abdominal dorsum; and (5) to some extent in 

 the genitaUa. 



Habits. — Under stones, common in the autumn, but none found in 

 the winter. 

 Lycosa mccooki n. sp. PI. XVIII, fig. ll. 



(Two females from Austin, Texas. Dedicated to Dr. Henry C. 

 McCook, the eminent describer of the spinning habits of spiders.) 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Eyes. — First row equidistant from the (?lypeal margin and the 

 second row, its eyes adequal and its middle eyes decidedly higher, 

 shorter than the second row. Eyes of second row much the largest, 

 less than their diameter apart. Third row widest, its eyes nearly 

 twice their diameter behind the second row. Dorsal eye area almost 

 one-quarter the length of the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the 

 posterior eyes broader than long. Third row scarcely wider than the 

 second. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front about one-half its greatest trans- 

 vei'se diameter, highest at the posterior ej'es, sides of the head steep. 

 Chelicera with three pairs of teeth, longer than the clypeus wide, their 

 length barely 1.75 times the height of the head in front. Sternum 

 longer than broad. Labium longer than wide, concave apically, about 

 one-half the length of the maxillae. Posterior spinnerets longest. 

 Leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.2 : 1, its metatarsus shorter than the 

 patella and tibia combined. Palpal claw with 4 teeth. 



Dimensions. 



Cephalothorax 5 



Abdomen 5 



Leg 1 15.5 



Leg II, 15 



Leg III 15 



Leg IV, 21 



Color (in alcohol). — CephoIotJwrax brown or blackish, white between 

 the eyes of the second row and a white line below each of these eyes. 

 A median buff or reddish-brown band, almost as broad as the eye area, 

 extends from the eye region along the whole length of the cephalothorax 

 and is slightly constricted anterior to the dorsal groove. There is a 

 narrow, undulating, buff submarginal band, and the extreme margin is 

 black. Sternum brown or black, darker than the coxce. Abdomen with- 

 out a median band, a large whitish or pale j-ellow spot covers almost 

 the anterior third of the dorsum, and behind it on the dorsum are 

 5-6 pairs of smaller spots of the same color, the posterior ones appear- 

 ing as transverse stripes due to the confluence of their component 

 spots; each row of these light markings is bordered laterally by a broad 

 black stripe. Sides mottJed with black or gray. Venter black in one 

 specimen, mottled black and j^ellowish in the other. Epigynum yellow. 

 Chelicera deep reddish-black, labium the same color with yellowish tip, 

 maxilla; reddish-brown or j-ellowish. Legs with femora banded dis- 

 tinctly with brown and buff, and (most distinctly on the anterior 

 pairs) with a longitudinal brown band on the posterior surface; the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



posterior two pairs with the tibia blackish at the ends and yellow in 

 the middle, the metatarsi 3'ellow at the ends and blackish in the middle; 

 each coxa below with an elongate yellow spot proximalh*. 



Comparisons. — Most nearly related to L. pictilis. but they differ 

 noticeabh^ in epigynum and coloration. 



Lycosa nigra Stone. PI. XX, figs. 40, 41. 



Lijcosa nigra Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa nigra Stone, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Of this species, hitherto known only by the 9 , an adult cJ' and 9 

 were loaned to me by ]Mr. J. H. Emerton, collected in Long Island, 

 New York.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, equidistant from the 

 second row and the clypeal margin, straight, eyes equidistant, middle 

 eyes slightly larger. Eyes of second row largest, almost 1.5 times 

 their diameter apart. Eyes of third row fully twice their diameter 

 behind the second row, this row scarcely broader than the second in 

 the d^ , distinctly broader in the 9 . Dorsal eye are to length of cepha- 

 lothorax as 1 : 4.75. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes as broad as 

 long in the d^ , broader than long in the 9 . 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front rounded, almost one-half its greatest 

 transverse diameter in the 9 , not one-third this width in the cJ' , 

 highest at the posterior eyes, sides of the head almost vertical in the (^ , 

 more oblique in the 9 . Labium distinctly longer than broad, narrow, 

 not quite one-half the length of the maxillae, its sides almost parallel, 

 obliqueh^ truncated at the tip. Chelicera in length almost twice the 

 height of the head in front, rather weak but arched anteriorly. Ster- 

 num large, much longer than broad, continued between the pos- 

 terior coxae. (J* palpus almost as long as the cephalothorax. Legs 

 rather stout, short, without scopulae, with very few hairs and short 

 spines. Anterior spinnerets longest. Leg I^' to cephalothorax. 

 3.1 : 1 ; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 



Dimensions. c" 9 



Cephalothorax 2.3 2.3 



Abdomen, 2.8 



Leg 1 5 



Leg II, 4.5 



Leg III, 4.3 



Leg IV, 7.3 7.2 



Color of Female (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax uniform shining black, 

 hairless, with a reddish tone, clypeal margin a little lighter. Sternum 

 the same color, also hairless. Abdomen above greenish-brown with a 

 median yellow band on the anterior third, this band pointed at both 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



ends and narrowly edged with blackish; to each side of the mid-line 

 is a row of about 6 small spots, the posterior ones connected l)y narrow 

 transverse lines of the same color. The sides are greenish-brown, 

 flecked ventrally with yellow. Venter yellow with a median and a pair 

 of closely approximated lateral blackish, longitudinal bands \vhich 

 converge as they pass caudad, but are separated from the spinnerets 

 by an area of the same color as the sides; the lateral dark bands 

 diverge aroimd the epigynum and at some distance from it, but imite 

 anteriorly close to the peduncle. Chclicera dark reddish-lilack with 

 few hairs, labium the same color with yellow tip, maxilUe brownish. 

 Legs with the femora black (except for a yellow spot on the distal 

 anterior surface of the first pair) ; coxse and trochanters blackish above 

 but lighter below; the other joints light yellow, patellae and tibia? of 

 the first three pairs blackish below, fourth pair with the patella blackish 

 below and the tibia with a blackish ring at each end and extending to 

 the dorsal surface. Palpi with femora black, other joints yellow with 

 some blackish ventrally. 



Color of Male (in alcohol).— C'f7)^«7o//iora.T hairless, shining dark 

 brown, a black stripe between the second and third eyes of each side. 

 Sternum shining brown. Abdomen above with the median band bor- 

 dered with small black dots, and enclosed in a broader bright yellow 

 area which in its posterior two-thirds contains on each side a row of 

 about 7 small black spots, each row more lateral than the median band, 

 and the two rows meeting at the spinnerets. The sides are blackish, 

 flecked with yellow. The venter is like that of the female, but the 

 median dark band is lacking. Legs with femora darkest, these being 

 greenish-brown, as are the trochanters; coxse yellow proximally; the 

 other joints pale yellow without dark markings. PaJpi greenish, the 

 ventral surface of the patella- and the distal end of the tarsus yellow. 



Comparisons. — This species is to be distinguished from L. rugosa 

 (Keys.), another small species with hairless cephalothorax. in the 

 structure of the palpal organ ; in the wide separation of the eyes of the 

 second row; in the chelicera being considerably longer than the first 

 patellae and arched in front; and in the different color of the abdominal 

 venter. Hentz's L. funerea may be one of these species, but his de- 

 scription and figure gives so insufficient a diagnosis that it is doubtful 

 whether funerea can ever be recognized with certainty. 

 Lycosa charonoides Montg. 



Lycosa charonoides Montgomer}% 1902, 1903. 



(Specimens from Pennsylvania.) 



Eijcs. — First row as broad as the second (c?) or shorter ( 9 ), straight. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



nearer the clypeal margin than to the second row, middle eyes not 



quite double the size of the lateral. Eyes of second row largest, their 



diameter apart (J) or slightly more ( ? ). Length of the dorsal eye 



area to the cephalothorax, c? 1 : 6, 9 1 : 5.5. Quadrilateral of the 



.posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest behind the middle (cJ*) or equally 



high there and at the posterior eyes ( 9 ), its posterior declivity abrupt 



and steep, in front truncated straight and less than one-half its greatest 



transverse diameter. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than the 



width of the clypeus, their length fully twice the height of the head 



in front. Labium longer than broad, truncated apically, not one-half 



the length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad, with few hairs, 



pointed posteriorly. Leg IV to cephalothorax, cJ' 3.5 : 1, 9 3.8 : 1; 



metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 9 palpal claw 



with 3 teeth. 



Lycosa lepida (Keys.). 



Tarentula lepida Keyserling, 1876. 

 Lycosa communis Emerton, 1885. 

 Tarentula lepida Keys., Marx, 1889. 

 Lycosa communis Emerton, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa lepida (Keys.), Montgomer3^ 1902, 1903. 



(Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, jMassachu- 

 setts, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer to the clypeal margin than to the second 

 row, its eyes equidistant, middle eyes larger and slightly higher. Eyes 

 of the second row largest, more than their diameter apart. Length 

 of dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 5.5. Quadrilateral of the 

 posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form.— Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated and fully ( 9 ) one-half or less (cJ') its greatest transverse diam- 

 eter, the sides of the head rather steep. Chehcera with 3 pairs of teeth, 

 as long as the width of the clypeus, their length more than twice the 

 height of the head in front. I>abium longer than broad, truncated 

 apically, not one-half the length of the maxillse. Sternum longer 

 than broad. Spinnerets equal in length. Length of leg IV to cephalo- 

 thorax, d^ 4.2 : 1, 9 3.3 : 1; in the 6" metatarsus IV is almost as 

 long as the patella and tibia combined, but shorter in the 9 . 9 palpal 

 claw with 4 teeth. 



Lycosa pictilis Emerton. PI. XVIII, figs. 7, 8. 

 Lycosa pictilis Emerton, 1885. 

 (c?, 9 , Mt. Washington, New Hampshire.) 

 F^/es.— First row shorter than the second, straight, eyes adequal, 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marclf, 



equidistant from the second row and the clypeal margin. Eyes of 



second row largest, about 1.5 times their diameter apart. Dorsal 



eye area to cephalothorax, 1 : 5 ( 9 ) or 1 : 5.5 (d^). Quadrilateral 



of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun-. 



cated straight and more (?) or less ( d^ ) than one-half its greatest 



transverse diameter. Chelicera large, with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than 



the width of the clypeus, their length fully 2.5 times the height of the 



head in front. Labium slightly longer than broad, trmicated apically, 



not one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad, 



pointed behind. Spinnerets about equal in length. Length of leg IV 



to cephalothorax, 6^ 3.5 : 1, 9 3.3 : 1; metatarsus 1\ shorter than 



patella and tibia combined. ? palpal claw with 7 teeth. 



Lycosa punctulata Hentz. 



Lycosa punctulata Hentz, 1S41. 



Lycosa punctulata Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 



nee Lycosa punctulata Hentz, Stone, 1890. 



(Two females from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, nearly straight, nearer 

 the clypeal margin than the second row, middle eyes slightly larger and 

 nearer the lateral eyes than to each other. Eyes of second row largest, 

 their diameter apart. Dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 5.5. 

 Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes longer than wide. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated and a little more than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, 

 the sides of the head rather steep. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, 

 longer than the width of the clypeus, about one and four-fifths times 

 the height of the head in front. Labium large, nearly as broad as 

 long, slightly concave apicalh^, not one-half the length of the maxillae. 

 Spinnerets about equal in length. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax 

 as 3.4 :1; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 

 Palpal claw with 5 teeth. 



Lycosa ocreata Hentz. 



Lycosa ocreata Hentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa ocreata Hentz, Emerton, ISSo. 

 Lycosa stonei Montgomery, 1902, 1903, 

 nee Lycosa rufa Keyserling, 1876. 



(Nmnerous specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachu- 

 setts, and Long Island, New York.) 



Eyes. — First row narrower than the second, a little nearer the clypeal 

 margin than to the second row, middle eyes slightly larger and higher. 

 Eyes of second row largest, 1.5 times their diameter apart. Dorsal 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.3. Quadrilateral of the posterior 

 eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front one- 

 half its greatest transverse diameter (?) or one-third (d ), sides of 

 head vertical (d) or slightly oblique ( $ ), the anterior eye row over- 

 arching the clypeus. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than the 

 width of the clypeus, in length 1.5 times the height of the head in front, 

 weak and but shghtly arched anteriorly. Labium slightly longer than 

 wide, somewhat rounded apically, not one-half the length of the 

 maxillae. Sternum longer than broad, pointed posteriorly. An- 

 terior spinnerets longer than the posterior. Leg IV to cephalo- 

 thorax as 4.7 : 1; metatarsus IV as long as tibia and patella 

 combined. 9 palpus ^^•ith 4 teeth. Tibia I of d with a brush of 

 long stiff hairs. 



Lycosa scutulata Hentz. 



Lycosa scutulata Hentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Austin, 

 Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row narrower than the second, equidistant from the 

 clypeal margin and the second row, straight or the middle eyes slightly 

 higher, middle eyes a httle larger than the lateral. Eyes of second row 

 largest, fully (d) or not quite ( ? ) their diameter apart. Length of 

 dorsal eye area to cephalothorax, d 1 : 4.75, $1:5. Quadrilateral 

 of the posterior eyes longer than wide. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated and almost (?) or less than (d) one-half its greatest transverse 

 diameter, sides of head steep, first two eye rows overarching the clypeus. 

 Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than the width of the clypeus, 

 their length 1.75 times the height of the head in front. Labium longer 

 than broad, widest at the distal half, apically truncated, not one-half 

 the length of the maxillae. Sternum distinctly longer than broad. 

 Superior spinnerets slightly longer. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax, 

 d 4.7 : 1, 9 4.1 : 1; metatarsus IV shghtly longer (d) or shghtly 

 shorter ( ? ) than the patella and tibia combined. 9 palpal claw with 

 4 teeth. 



Remarks. — The Texas specimens differ from the northern ones in 

 greater size, the 9 with a cephalothoracal length of 12 mm. 

 19 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Lycosa bilineata (Emerton). 



Pardosa bilineata Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa ocreata pulchra Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massa- 

 chusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row shorter than the second, about equidistant from 

 the clypeal margin and the second row, the middle eyes almost con- 

 tiguous, larger and slightly higher than the lateral. Eyes of the second 

 row largest and about 1.4 their diameter apart. Length of dorsal eye 

 to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes 

 broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated straight and decidedly less than one-half its greatest transverse 

 diameter, the sides of the head vertical and the two anterior rows pro- 

 jecting in front of the clypeus. Chelicera weak with 3 pairs of teeth, 

 their anterior margin nearly straight, longer than the width of the 

 clypeus, their length about 1.5 times the height of the head in front. 

 Labium longer than broad, apically trimcated, not one-half the length 

 of the maxillae. Sternum large, longer than broad. Spinnerets equal 

 in length. Metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined; 

 length of leg IV to cephalothorax, cJ^ 4 : 1, ? 3.8 : 1. ? palpal claw 

 with 3 teeth. Tibia I in d^ with a thick brush of vertical hairs. 



Remarks. — Emerton's description of bilineata was so brief, that I 

 did not consider it to be identical with my ocreata pulchra until Emerton 

 called my attention to the probable identity; Emerton had described 

 only the female. 



Lycosa inhonesta (Keys.). PL XX, figs. 38, 39. 



Tarentula inhonesta Keyserling, 1876. 



f.Lrjcosa babingtoni Blackwall, 1846. 



Lycosa nidicola Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa nidicola Emerton, Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa nidicola Emberton, Montgomery, 1902, 1903 



Lijcosa tigrina McCook, 1878, 1893 (Plate 30). 



Lycosa tigrina McCook, Stone, 1890. 



iLycosa vulpina Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa inhonesta (Keys.), Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New 

 Jersey and Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer to the clypeal margin than to the second 

 row, shorter or quite as long as the second, middle eyes higher and 

 slightly larger. Eyes of the second row much the largest, about three- 

 fourths their diameter apart. Eyes of the third row about twice their 

 diameter behind the second row. Dorsal eye area about one-sixth 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



the length of the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes 

 wider than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest just behind the third eyes, in front 

 slightly rounded and about one-half its greatest transverse diameter. 

 Sides of head oblique. Chehcera with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than the 

 width of the clypeus, their length 2.5 times the height of the head in 

 front. Sternum longer than broad. Leg IV to cephalothorax, cJ^ 4 : 1, 



9 3.4 : 1; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 



? palpal claw with 3 teeth. Spinnerets about equal in length. Legs 

 stout with weak scopulae. 



Remarks.— The Texas specimens offer as great variation in size and 

 color as do the northern ones (cf. Montgomery, 1903). Under stones 

 in the bed of Shoal Creek, at Austin, where they are very numerous, 

 two series of individuals may be distinguished : 



(1) Smaller ones of lighter color. Cephalothorax with the light 

 submarginal band as distinct as the median. Abdomen above with a 

 pale brown to orange median band extending the whole length of the 

 dorsum, and enclosing in its anterior half a narrower darker band 

 edged with black; each side of the dorsum is darker with a row of 

 whitish spots that are frequently connected by transverse white lines; 

 venter pale brown, unspotted or with small spots. Sternum and coxae 

 darker brown to reddish-brown. Legs greenish or yellowish with 

 darker annulations. Cephalothoracal length (9) 7.5-8.5 mm. 



(2) Larger ones of darker color. Cephalothorax with the submar- 

 ginal bands frequently interrupted or indistinct. Abdomen very dark 

 above and with the pattern indistinct; venter frequently blackish, 

 with numerous small black spots which are sometimes arranged in 

 longitudinal rows; rarely the entire venter is deep black. Sternum 

 and inferior surface of coxae reddish-brown to deep black. Legs dark 

 brown with more or less distinct darker annulations; leg IV sometimes 

 shows on the inferior surface deep black rings at both ends of the 

 tibia and at the distal end of the tarsus. Cephalothoracal length (?) 

 8.5-11.5 mm. 



The intermediates between these two groups are not very numerous. 

 The most constant color diagnostic is the very narrow light median 

 band of the cephalothorax. 



This species is so variable that without a large series of individuals 

 one might easily conclude that it included two species, namely, a 

 smaller one {nidicola of Emerton) and a larger and darker one, with 

 distinct annulations on the legs (inhonesta of Keyserling, tigrina of 

 McCook). But there are no valid distinctions in the genitalia of the 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



two, and they intergrade in size and color, so that I have conckided to 

 regard them as one species. It is possible that Emerton's vulpina is a 

 color variety of this species; but of vulpina I have seen only an adult 

 male (labelled so by Mr. Emerton), and no adult female, so that I could 

 not decide the point. 



Habits. — This is a species of moist ground and meadow land, and 

 at Austin is very abundant under stones on the margin of Shoal Creek. 

 The males and the young are more or less diurnal, the grown females 

 nocturnal. 



Lycosa relucens Montg. 



Lycosa relucens Montgomery, 1902. 

 Lycosa verisimilis Montgomery, 1902, 1903. 



(Specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row straight, narrow^er than the second, nearer to the 

 clypeal margin than to the second row, eyes adequal in size. Eyes of 

 second row largest, about 1.5 times their diameter apart. Length of 

 the dorsal eye area to the cephalothorax, 6^ 1 : 4.5, 9 1:5. Quadri- 

 lateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes, in front trun- 

 cated and not one-half its greatest transverse diameter, sides of the 

 head nearly vertical (cJ*) or more oblique ( 9 ), anterior margin of the 

 liead projecting slightly in front of the clypeus. Chelicera with 3 pairs 

 of teeth, longer than the width of the clypeus, their length about twice 

 the height of the head in front. Labium longer than broad, apically 

 rounded (?) or truncated (d^), not one-half the length of the maxillae. 

 Sternum large, longer than broad. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax 

 as 4 : 1, metatarsus IV shorter than the patella and tibia combined. 

 Spinnerets equal in length. ? palpal claw with 3 teeth. 



Remarks. — The very considerable variation in the form of the epi- 

 gynum led me originally to divide this into two species. Recently I 

 have obtained individuals with the epigynum quite intermediate in 

 structure between the extremes first found. The specimens from Texas 

 are larger than the northern ones. 



GEOLYCOSA nov. gen. 



I propose this new genus for those species, previously included in 

 Lycosa, in which the first leg is thickest and strongest, furnished with 

 thick scopulse on its three terminal joints, and almost as long as the 

 fourth (shorter by not more than one-half the length of tarsus I). 

 Geolycosa latifrons is the type species. 



In Geolycosa latifrons the cephalothorax is very high in the cephalic 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



portion, and from that point to its posterior margin its dorsal contour 

 is almost straight without any demarcation of a posterior declivity ; the 

 posterior declivity is only slightly marked in arenicola and carolinensis ^ 

 but well marked in baltimoriana and texana. In latijrons also the che- 

 licera are very large and thick. The first row of eyes is about as broad 

 as the second, except in texana. The other characters are essentially 

 those of Lycosa. 



This genus is better demarcated from Lycosa than either Pardosa 

 or Trochosa. All the species dig deep cylindrical holes in the ground, 

 and some of them build a low turret of sticks around the aperture 

 {arenicola, latifrons, texana). This burrowing habit has occasioned the 

 thickness of the first pair of legs, and occasioned also the height of the 

 cephalothorax in front by the greater development of the muscles there. 

 Lycosa fatifera Hentz probably belongs to this genus, but Hentz's very 

 brief description: "Bluish ])lack; cephalothorax deeper in color at the 

 sides; chelicera covered with rufous hairs and vnth. a red elevation on 

 their external side near the base; one of the largest species," is insuffi- 

 cient. He states it "is common in Massachusetts," and this, together 

 with his description of its tube, makes it possible that he had either a 

 light variety of carolinensis or an unusually large and dark specimen 

 of arenicola. 



Key to Species of Geolycosa. 



a. 1. — Lateral eyes of the first row larger than its middle eyes, whole 



venter deep black, carolinensis. 



a. 2. — Lateral eyes of the first row not larger than its middle eyes, 

 whole venter not black. 

 h. 1. — Patellae black below, almost the whole venter behind the 

 lung-books deep black, this black not including lighter 



markings, haltimoriana. 



b. 2. — Not so colored. 



c. L — First eye row distinctly shorter than the second, pos- 

 terior declivity of cephalothorax describing an angle 



with the dorsal contour, texana. 



c. 2. — First eye row fully as broad as the second, posterior 



declivity of the cephalothorax in a line with its dorsal 



contour. 



d. 1. — Coxae and femora of legs I and II black below, 



venter with a median black band, . arenicola. 



d. 2. — Not so colored, latijrons. 



Geolycosa texana n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs. 13, 14. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin. Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer the second than the clypeal margin, de- 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



cidedly shorter than the second, its eyes subeqiial, middle eyes shghtly 

 higher. Eyes of second row largest, less than their diameter apart. 

 Third row widest. Dorsal eye area less than one-fifth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes longer than 

 broad. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front truncated, about one-half its great- 

 est transverse diameter (?) or less (d^), highest at the posterior eyes, 

 the ocular region marked off by a groove from the cheek region. Sides 

 of head rather steep. Chelicera massive, much longer than the clypeus 

 wide, their length nearly twice the height of the head in front, with 

 3 pairs of teeth ; their posterior surface with a row of numerous trans- 

 verse striae. Sternum longer than broad. Legs long but strong, 

 length of the fourth to the cephalothorax in c? 4.1 : 1, in 9 3.6 : 1 ; in 

 the cJ^ the fourth metatarsus is slightly longer than the patella and 

 tibia combined. 9 palpal claw with 6 teeth. Anterior spinnerets 

 longest and largest. Labium longer than broad, fully one-half the 

 length of the maxillse, apically truncated. Epigynum relatively small. 



Dimensions. c? 9 



Cephalothorax, 11 13.5 



Abdomen, 11 14 



Leg 1 40.5 43 



Leg II 37.5 40 



Leg III, 34 36 



Leg IV, 45 49 



Color in Life. — Cephalothorax above grayish-black, with a grayish 

 median band that occupies the whole surface between the eyes of the 

 second and third rows, passes back to almost the middle of the cephalo- 

 thorax, there becomes narrower and continues to the posterior margin. 

 Extreme margin black. There is an interrupted submarginal gray 

 band which is continued on to the cephalic portion. All the gray 

 markings are due to long whitish hairs, and finer whitish hairs are scat- 

 tered over the blackish regions. Sternum thickly covered with long, 

 stiff, grayish hairs, sometimes black on the margins. Abdomen above 

 on its anterior half with a median band of dark brownish edged nar- 

 rowly with black and containing minute black spots ; this band termi- 

 nates truncated about the middle of the dorsum, and on each side of it 

 at about its middle is a pointed black spot. This band hes in a less 

 distinctly defined, broader pale brownish band which extends the whole 

 length of the dorsum and becomes much narrower toward the spinnerets. 

 In this broader band, behind the narrower enclosed darker one, are 

 about 6-7 crescentic transverse markings each as wide as the broad 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



band, each black anteriorly and white posteriorly, the most anterior 

 being the most distinct; at each end of each of these crescentic mark- 

 ings is a large pale gray spot. Sides above dappled gray and blackish, 

 below with larger black spots scattered on a gray or yellow ground. 

 Venter in front of epigynum gray or yellow with a single pair of black 

 spots. Just behind the rima epigastrica is a broad, transverse black 

 band the anterior edge of which is straight and sharpl}^ demarcated, 

 but the posterior edge of which is extended backward as a more or less 

 interrupted, median black band extending to a httle in front of the 

 spinnerets, and a pair of lateral black bands (or rows of black spots) 

 M^hich curve backward to meet the median band just in front of the 

 spinnerets ; thus the venter appears to possess a pair of elongate yellow 

 or yellowish-gray areas, separated by the median black band, bordered 

 laterally and posteriorly by the lateral black lines, and anteriorly by 

 the transverse black band. Spinnerets blackish. Chelicera anteriorly 

 with orange and black hairs, the macula red ; maxillce reddish-brown, 

 labium darker. Legs above grayish mth one or two black spots on the 

 coxae and black longitudinal markings on the posterior aspect of the 

 femora; below each coxa is whitish, sometimes with a longitudinal 

 black stripe, each femur w^hitish with a black ring at its distal end, 

 each patella whitish, the first tibia blackish its entire length, the tibiae 

 of the other pairs whitish in the middle and black at the ends, the tarsi 

 and metatarsi black. Palpi grayish, unmarked except that the ter- 

 minal joint is black on the inferior surface. 



Comparisons. — This large and beautiful species is quite distinct from 

 any other. It is very abundant in open areas of the limestone region of 

 Austin, and lives in deep cyhndrical holes lined with silk, and with 

 the opening of the tube raised above the surface of the ground, as in 

 G. arenicola. 

 Geolycosa latifrons n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 15-18. 



(Specimens from the vicinity of Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row much nearer the second row than to the clypeal 

 margin, almost or fully as broad as the second row, its middle eyes 

 slightly larger and higher, and nearer the lateral eyes than each other. 

 Eyes of second row largest, separated by almost their diameter. Third 

 row broadest, about 1.5 times the diameter of one of its eyes behind 

 the second row. Dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 6.5. Quad- 

 rilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



j^o^^. —Cephalothorax very broad in front, there from five-eighths 

 (cJ^) to four-fifths (9) its greatest transverse diameter, very high at 

 the posterior eyes and from there gradually sloping to its posterior 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



end, the posterior dedivity not being separable from the dorsal outline. 

 It is very high at the posterior eyes, and the cephalic portion is marked 

 off from the thoracal on each side by a groove ; the sides of the head are 

 oblique and the cheeks very broad. Chelicera massive with a large 

 macula basalis, with three pairs of teeth, longer than clypeus wide, in 

 length about 2.5 times the height of the head from the clypeal margin 

 to the superior border of the second eye row, at the base almost as 

 thick in an antero-posterior direction as one-half their length. Ster- 

 num much longer than broad. Labium longer than wide, not one-half 

 the length of the maxillae, apically concave. Posterior spinnerets 

 longest. Epigynum very large. First leg noticeably thicker than the 

 others, particularly its three terminal joints which are thickly covered 

 below with scopulse. Scopulse are also present upon the tarsus, meta- 

 tarsus and distal half of the tibia of II, and on the tarsi of III and IV. 

 Fourth leg to cephalothorax, d" 3.3 : 1, ? 2.7 : 1. Metatarsus IV 

 shorter than patella with tibia combined. 



Dimensions. <^ $ 



Cephalothorax, 8.5 10 



Abdomen, 7 8 



Leg I, 27 25.5 



Leg II, 24.5 22 



Leg III, 22 20.5 



Leg IV, 28.3 27 



Color of Females (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax with few and only short 

 hairs; clear to dark reddish-brown in the cephalic portion, this clear 

 area constricting anterior to the dorsal groove, then enlarging again 

 around this groove ; sides darker, interrupted by reddish bands radiat- 

 ing from the dorsal groove, the extreme margin black. Sternum yellow 

 to yellowdsh-gray. Abdomen above dull brown to chocolate-brown 

 without any distinct pattern on the dorsum; at each antero-lateral 

 angle a large elongate black spot ; sides behind this mark paler brown ; 

 venter very pale yellow along its whole extent, or else a little darker 

 behind the rima epigastrica. Epigynum clear reddish-brown. Spin- 

 nerets brown. Chelicera and labium dark reddish-brown, jnaxillce 

 yellowish. Legs without annulations, above reddish-brown (usually 

 paler than the light portion of the cephalothorax), below the coxae, 

 femora and patellae lighter (of the same color as the sternum) ; owing 

 to the thick scopulae the inferior surfaces of the tibiae, metatarsi (also 

 the dorsal portion of the distal half of these), and the tarsi of I are 

 black, as of the tibia, metatarsus and distal half of the tibia of II, and 

 of the distal ends of the tarsi of III and IV. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Color of Males (in alcohol). — Differ from the female as follows: The 

 abdomen above is orange-brown (more clear orange anteriorly) ; at 

 each antero-lateral angle arises a broad black band that extends on 

 the side posteriorly as far as the middle ; venter pale brownish laterally, 

 the median region behind the lung-books being silvery mth a pair of 

 closely approximated narrow, darker longitudinal lines. The coxce 

 and femora are greenish below. Palpi with all the joints brown above 

 and greenish below, except the tarsus, which is wholly black. 



Comparisons. — A species very well marked by the great width of 

 the head region, and the gradual slope of the dorsal contour of the 

 cephalothorax. 



Geolycosa baltimoriana (Keys.). PI- XIX, fig. 19. 



Tarentula baltimoriana Keyserling, 1876. 

 Lycosa baltimoriana (Keys.), Montgomery, 1902. 



(In addition to the single male originally described by me, I have 

 secured three additional males from the vicinity of Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row nearer the clypeal margin than the second row, 

 almost as broad as the second, its eyes equidistant, the middle eyes 

 higher and fully twice the size of the lateral. Eyes of the second row 

 largest, about three-fourths their diameter apart. Third row broader 

 than the second, its eyes almost 1.5 their diameter behind the second 

 row. Dorsal eye area one-fifth the length of the cephalothorax' 

 Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front quite one-half its greatest transverse 

 diameter, highest at the posterior eyes, the posterior declivity inclined 

 at fully 45° with the dorsal outline. Head rather oblique and rounded. 

 Chelicera longer than the clypeus broad, almost twice the height of the 

 head in front, with three pairs of teeth. Labium longer than broad, 

 apically concave, less than one-half the length of the maxillae. Ster- 

 num longer than broad. Spinnerets adequal in length. Legs long and 

 slender, the first slightly thicker than the other (most noticeably its 

 tibia), and shorter than the fourth by only one-third the length of its 

 tarsus. Metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. On 

 all the femora the hairs are short and few ; there are thick scopulse on 

 the tarsi and metatarsi of I and II, and on the tarsi of III and IV. 

 Leg IV to cephalothorax as 3.5 : 1. 



Dimensions. (^ 



Cephalothorax, 9 



Abdomen, 7 



Leg I, 29.5 



Leg II, 28 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE [March, 



Dimensions. d^ 



Leg III, 26 



LeglV, 31.5 



Color (in alcohol). — Cephalotho7'ax above with a very narrow white 

 median line in the eye area extending back to the dorsal groove; the 

 extreme margin white; a broad siibmarginal band of orange on each 

 side, not extending to the head; a small reddish-yellow area around 

 the dorsal groove (and extending back to the posterior margin of the 

 thorax as a narrow band), from which broad radiating bands extend 

 to the submarginal band, about fom* of these bands on each side, and 

 each band narrowly white in front, black behind this, then reddish- 

 brown in its posterior half. The ocular area is blackish; the clypeus 

 and cheeks whitish above, poster o-ventral margin of each cheek with 

 a black spot. Sternum deep black. Abdomen above on its anterior 

 half with a broad median dark band edged with black, this band nar- 

 rowest anteriorly with sinuate margins and concavely truncated pos- 

 teriorly; it is bordered b}" orange-brown. At each antero-lateral mar- 

 gin of the dorsum arises a broader, interrupted black stripe which 

 extends almost to the spinnerets, and in its posterior half is simply an 

 area of black spots. Behind the median band is a series of four nar- 

 row, transverse black bands, whose lateral margins confluesce with the 

 lateral black stripes. Sides orange-brown, marked posteriorly with 

 blackish spots, ^^enter pale greenish, with a sharply boimded, deep 

 black band extending from the rima epigastrica in front to a little an- 

 terior to the spinnerets behind, this black covering the whole venter 

 behind the lungs but not extending up the sides. Chelicera black with 

 orange hairs anteriorly, labium and maxillce black with paler tips. 

 Legs above yellowish, femora of I and II with two almost contiguous, 

 parallel dark lines above, and another on the posterior aspect, these 

 represented by lines of black spots on III and IV; the patellae and 

 distal ends of the tibiae are brownish, the metatarsi and tarsi of I and II 

 pale brownish. Below the coxae are chocolate-brown, the femora A-ery 

 pale yellow, the patellae and distal ends of the tibiae deep black, the 

 metatarsi and tarsi reddish-brown. Palpi yellow, femora above with 

 two longitudinal darker stripes, patella below slightly darker than 

 above, whole tarsus almost black. 



Comparisons.- — Of all the species of the genus it comes closest to 

 texana, but apart from the differences in coloration and the palpal 

 organ it may be distinguished by tarsus I being more than one-half the 

 length of the metatarsus, while in texana this joint is decidedly less than 

 one-half this length. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Habits. — The female is unknown. One male was found in a hole 



three inches deep below a stone, the other two below stones, but not in 



holes. 



Geolycosa arenicola (Scudd.). 



Lycosa arenicola Scudde-r. 1877. 



Lycosa nidifex Marx, 1881. 



Lycosa nidifex Marx, Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa domifex Hancock, 1899. 



Lycosa arenicola McCook, 1893 (Plate 30). 



Lycosa arenicola Scudder, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Long 

 Island, New York.) 



Eyes ( ? ). — First row as broad as the second, nearer the second 

 row than to the clypeal margin, its eyes equidistant, the middle eyes 

 shghtly larger and slightly higher. Eyes of the second row largest, 

 about their diameter apart. Dorsal eye area one-sixth the length of 

 the cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than 

 long. 



Form ( 2 ). — Cephalothorax highest at the posterior eyes and from 

 there gradually declining to its posterior margin, with the posterior 

 declivity barely demarcated from the dorsal, sides of the head oblique, 

 in front somewhat rounded and about three-fifths its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, their length almost 

 twice the height of the head in front, longer than the width of the cly- 

 peus, at their base almost as thick antero-posteriorly as one-half their 

 length. Thick scopulae inferiorly upon the four terminal joints of 

 legs I and II, and the two terminal joints of III and IV; leg IV to 

 cephalothorax as 2.7 : 1 ; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia 

 combined. 



Lycosa carolinensis Walck. 



Lycosa tarentula carolinensis Walckenaer, 1837. 

 Lycosa tarentula carolinensis Hentz, 1841. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Walck., Stone, 1890. 

 Lycosa carolinensis Walck., Montgomery, 1902. 



(Specimens from New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Martha's Vineyard, 

 Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row equidistant from the clypeal margin and the 

 second row, somewhat shorter than the second, the lateral eyes slightly 

 lower and slightly larger than the middle and placed upon tubercles 

 so that they are directed downward. Eyes of second row largest, not 

 quite their diameter apart. Dorsal eye area to the length of the cepha- 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



lothorax as 1:6. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than 

 long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax flat and broad, the cephalic portion clearly 

 marked off from the thoracic, in front fully ( 9 ) or less (d^) than one- 

 half its greatest transverse diameter, highest at posterior eyes ; in the 9 

 the dorsal outline gradually declines to the posterior margin with a 

 posterior declivity only slightly defined, but in the (j the posterior 

 declivity is well marked from the dorsal outline. Chelicera massive, 

 their length more than twice the height of the head in front, longer 

 than the width of the clypeus, with 3 pairs of teeth. Labium longer 

 than wide, broadest at the tip where it is truncated, one-half the length 

 of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad. Posterior spinnerets 

 longest. Legs thick, length of leg IV to cephalothorax, c^ 3.6 : 1, 

 9 3.2 : 1; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 



Genus TROCHOSA C. Koch, 1848. 



This genus is most closely allied to Lycosa, and differs from it mainly 

 in the following characters : The first row of eyes is fully as wide as the 

 second, or at least (as in avara and contestata) the middle points of the 

 lateral eyes of the first row are as far lateral as the middle points of 

 the eyes of the second row; the sides of the head are obliquely arched, 

 and the cephalothorax highest at or behind the middle (except in the 9 

 of frondicola) ; the legs are usually comparatively short (only in cinerea 

 has leg IV a length of four times the cephalothorax), and their spines 

 are usually short (in rubicunda there is only one ventral spine on tibia 

 I). The posterior spinnerets are never longer, usually shorter than the 

 anterior. Metatarsus IV is always shorter than the patella and tibia 

 combined. The chelicera are robust and arched anteriorly, with 3 

 teeth on their posterior margins (4 in contestata), and their length is 

 fully twice the height of the head in front. The length of the dorsal 

 eye area to the cephalothorax varies from 1 : 4.5 (cinerea) to 1 : 9 

 (rubicunda). The labium is longer than wide, and frequently one-half 

 or more the length of the maxillse (septdchrcdis, frondicola, furcelli, 

 cinerea). 



There is a greater structural difference between Trochosa rubicunda 

 and Lycosa scutulata, than between the latter and Pardosa; so that if 

 we maintain the genus Pardosa we must also retain Trochosa. 



Key to Species of Trochosa. 



a. 1. — Dorsal eye area one-ninth the length of the cephalothorax, one 

 spine on the ventral surface of tibia I, . . . rubicunda. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



a 2 -Dorsal eye area at least one-seventh the length of the cephalo- 

 ' ■ thorax, 3 pairs of spines on the ventral surface of tibia i. 

 ^ l._Posterior margin of chelicera with 4 teeth . . contestata. 

 I) 2 —Posterior margin of chehcera with 3 teeth. .^, , • 



'c, 1 — Cephalothorax smooth, without hairs or with hairs 

 only in the ocular area. . 



(^ I _A distinct broad median and narrow submargmal 

 bands on the cephalothorax, . noduahunda. 

 ^ 2.— Cephalothorax without stripes, . . • ^uhlata. 



c 2 —Cephalothorax with hairs. - 



^ 1 _Median band of cephalothorax narrow, 



helvipes Keyserling, 187b. 



d 2 —Median band of cephalothorax on the anterior half 



about as broad as the ocular area, colors mainly 



gray and white, cinerea 



^ 3 —Median band of cephalothorax in its anterior halt 



about half as broad as the eye area, colors dark. 



g 1 —Median band of cephalothorax not laterally 



notched anterior to the median groove. 



j_ 1,— Venter pale brown, sternum not darker 



than the coxse avdvci. 



f 2 —Venter black or blackish, sternum darker 



than coxa;, jrondicola. 



e 2 —Median band of cephalothorax notched later- 

 ally anterior to the median groove. 

 / 1 —Legs (at least the femora) distinctly an- 

 nulated, venter and sternum not deep 



g 1 —Spines on the femora shorter than 

 the greatest diameter of the fem- 



Qj.^ pratensis. 



> g 2.— Spines on the femora longer than the 



greatest diameter of the femora, 



purcelli. 



2 —Legs not annulated, venter and sternum 



deep black, .... sepulchralis. 



Trocliosa noctuabunda n. sp. PI. XVIII, figs. 9, 10. 



(Several specimens from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes —First row nearer the second than to the clypeal margin, 

 straio-ht fully as broad as the second, the middle eyes nearly double 

 the size of the lateral. Eyes of second row largest, separated by about 

 1 3 times their diameter. Third row little broader than the second, 

 and almost twice the diameter of one of its eyes behind the second. 

 Dorsal eve area less than one-sixth the length of the cephalothorax. 

 Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes about as long as broad. 



2^0^^.— Cephalothorax in front in the (^ rather pointed and about 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



two-fifths its greatest transverse diameter, in the $ somewhat rounded 

 and sHghtly more than one-half this diameter, highest at or shghtly 

 in front of the middle, entirely smooth except for a few long hairs in 

 the ocular area. Head low and obHque on the sides. Chelicera mas- 

 sive with strong macula basalis, very strongly arched on the anterior 

 border, longer than the width of the clypeus, in length about twice the 

 height of the head in front, with 3 pairs of teeth. Sternum decidedly 

 longer than broad, rather pointed posteriorly. Labium fully one-half 

 as long as the maxillae, longer than broad, truncated straight. An- 

 terior spinnerets slightly the longest. Legs short and stout with short 

 spines; vertically inserted, longer, fine hairs are particularly noticeable 

 on the tibiae and metatarsi ; length of leg IV to cephalothorax, c? 3.8 : 1, 

 9 3.5 :1; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 

 $ palpal claw with 4 teeth. 



Dimensions. 



c? ? 



Cephalothorax, 3.4 4 (3 in smallest) 



Abdomen, 3.3 5 



Leg I, 9.2 10.3 



Leg II, 8.8 9.8 



Leg III, 8.2 9.3 



Leg IV, 13 14 



Color (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax above blackish or deep brown in 

 the eye area, with a yellowish spot postero-lateral to each posterior eye, 

 A median yellow band arises between the posterior eyes, just behind 

 them enlarges to a width slightly broader than that of the ocular 

 area, is deeply constricted in front of the dorsal groove, enlarged to 

 its greatest diameter around this groove, constricted again behind 

 this groove and then slightly enlarged again at the posterior mar- 

 gin ; in its anterior portion this band contains a median and a pair 

 of lateral darker lines. There is a more or less distinct broad, inter- 

 rupted yellow submarginal band on the posterior two-thirds of the 

 cephalothorax; a yellow line beneath the anterior eyes; while the 

 remainder of the cephalothorax is shining dark brown or blackish. 

 Sternum shining, with few hairs, yellowish-brown with darker margins. 

 Abdomen in the brightest individuals above with a narrow median 

 green band on its anterior half, this band pointed at each end and 

 bordered laterally by a broader stripe of silvery-white interrupted by 

 black spots; on the posterior half of the dorsum the silvery- white is 

 continued as a few broad transverse areas, spotted by black; lateral to 

 this silvery-white is a broader black area, deep black and not inter- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



rupted anteriorly (on the anterior aspect of the abdomen the black 

 band of one side joins with that of the other), while posteriorly the 

 black band widens and becomes mottled with buff; sides buff, spotted 

 with black posteriorly; venter yellow in front of the lung-books, 

 behind them pale brown with small spots of darker l^rown and black. 

 In other individuals the dorsum shows the same general pattern, but 

 the silvery-white is replaced by yellow and the black by browm. 

 Epigynum reddish-brown. Spinnerets pale brown. Chelicera brown 

 or almost black, the macula red. Lahium as dark as the chelicera but 

 with lighter distal end, and maxillce lighter. Legs in the brightest indi- 

 viduals clear greenish-yellow, distinctly ringed with black on all the 

 joints except the tarsi, each coxa black on its anterior and posterior 

 aspects, the tarsi reddish-brown. Palpi colored like the legs. 



Comparisons.— This species comes very close to sublata, but differs 

 from it in the coloration of the cephalothorax and of the abdominal 

 venter. The epigyna of the two are very similar. 



Habits. — Not common, on damp ground under stones, on the margin 

 of streams. 



Troohosa pratensis (Emerton). 



Lycosa pratensis Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa pratensis Emerton, Montgomery, 1903. 



(99 from Wood's Hole, Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row a little broader than the second, the middle eyes 

 larger and slightly lower, lateral eyes nearer the second row than to 

 the clypeal margin. Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart. 

 Length of dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 6.5. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest between the posterior eyes and the 

 dorsal groove, in front truncated and a little more than one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, sides of head obliciue. Chelicera longer 

 than the width of the clypeus, 2.5 times the height of the head in front. 

 Labium longer than wide, its sides nearly parallel, truncated apically, 

 one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than broad. 

 Spinnerets equal. Legs thick, leg IV to cephalothorax as 2.7 : 1 ; meta- 

 tarsus IV shorter than the patella and tibia combined. Palpal claw 

 with 5 teeth. 



Troohosa contestata (Montg.). 



Lycosa contestata Montg., 1903. 



( 9 from Wood's Hole, Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row slightly shorter than the second, much nearer the 

 clypeal margin than to the second row, middle eyes double the size of 

 the lateral and a little higher. Eyes of the second row nearly L5 times 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



their diameter apart. Eyes of the third row nearly as large as those 

 of the second. Dorsal eye area to the cephalothorax as 1 : 6. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest a little anterior to the middle, in 

 front truncated and about one-half its greatest transverse diameter, 

 the sides of the head rather oblique. Chelicera about as long as the 

 width of the clypeus, fully 2.5 times the height of the head in front, 

 with 4 teeth on the inferior and 3 on the anterior margin. Labium 

 longer than wide, truncated apically, one-half the length of the maxillae. 

 Maxilla indented on the inferior surface near the distal end. Sternum 

 longer than broad. Spinnerets equal. Leg IV to cephalothorax as 

 3.6 : 1 ; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 

 Palpal claw with 4 teeth. 



Troohosa avara Keyserling. PI. XX, fig. 42. 



Trochosa avara Keys., 1876. 



Lycosa avara (Keys.), Montgomery, 1903. 



(One Q from Philadelphia; numerous individuals of both sexes from 

 Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row slightly narrower than the second, straight, equi- 

 distant from the second row and the clypeal margin, the middle eyes 

 closely approximated and fully L5 the size of the lateral. Eyes of 

 second row largest, fully (c?) or almost (9) their diameter apart. 

 Dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 6. Quadrilateral of the pos- 

 terior eyes longer than broad. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest behind the middle, in front truncated 

 and one-half (?) or less (cJ^) as wide as its greatest transverse diam- 

 eter, the sides of the head oblique. Chelicera longer than the width of 

 the clypeus, their length fully three times the height of the head in 

 front, with 3 pairs of teeth. Labium longer than broad, truncated 

 apically, not one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum longer than 

 broad. Anterior spinnerets longest. Leg IV to cephalothorax ( $ ) 

 as 3 : 1; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 9 

 palp with 5 teeth. 



Remarks. — The Texas specimens agree essentially with Keyserling's 

 description except in the following points : The epigynum is distinctly 

 broader than long. The abdomen above has a more or less dis- 

 tinct median darker band edged with yellowish on the anterior 

 half, and a pair of white spots on the posterior half, the rest 

 of the anterior surface being finely mottled with black and brown; 

 on the posterior dorsum are narrow transverse stripes of brown, be- 

 tween each two of which is a pair of black spots (each surrounded by 

 a brown ring) ; the venter is pale brown with minute black spots. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Habits. — A common species in the vicinity of Austin, mider stones 

 on dry hillsides. 



Trochosa purcelli (Montg.). 



Lycosa purcelli Montg., 1902. 

 Lycosa kochii Keys., Emerton, 1885. 

 nee Tarentula kochii Keys., 1876. 

 Lycosa nigraurata Montgomery, 1902. 



(Several specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachu- 

 setts.) 



Eyes (9). — First row slightly shorter than the second, nearer the 

 clypeal margin than to the second row, about straight or lateral eyes 

 slightly lower, middle eyes 1.5 times the size of the lateral. Eyes of 

 second row largest, slightly more than their diameter apart. Dorsal 

 eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.75. Quadrilateral of the posterior 

 eyes broader than long. 



Foryn (9). — Cephalothorax highest at about the middle, in front 

 truncated and not quite one-half its greatest transverse diameter, the 

 sides of the head oblique. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, longer than 

 the width of the clypeus, their length 2.25 times the height of the head 

 in front. Labium longer than broad, shghtly concave apically, not 

 one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum rounded. Leg. IV to 

 cephalothorax as 3.5 : 1. Metatarsus IV shorter than patella and 

 tibia combined. Spinnerets about equal in length. Palpal claw with 

 4 teeth. 



Remarks. — In addition to certain shght differences in the form of the 

 epigyna (mentioned in my preceding paper), this form is to be separated 

 from kochii in that the cephalothorax in front is less than one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, instead of "vorn bedeutend mehr als 

 halb so breit als in der Mitte," and in being highest at or behind the 

 middle. The male which I had described as a new species {nigrau- 

 rata) is an unusually bright-colored individual, with 4 teeth on the 

 posterior margin of one of the chelicera. 



Trochosa cinerea (Fabr.). PI. XX, fig. 43. 



Araneus cinereus Fabricius, 1793. 



Lycosa lynx Hahn, 1831. 



Lycosa halodroma C. Koch, 1848. 



Arctosa cinerea Idem. 



Arctosa lynx Idem. 



Lycosa niaritima Hentz, 1841. 



Lycosa cinerea Fabr., Emerton, 1885. 



Lycosa cinerea Fabr., Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa cinerea Fabr., Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas; Wood's Hole, Massa- 

 chusetts; Long Island, New York; New Jersey.) 

 20 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Eyes. — First row straight, as broad as the second, nearer the clypeal 

 margin than to the second row, middle eyes fully twice as large as the 

 lateral. Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart. Dorsal 

 eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.5. Quadrilateral of the posterior 

 eyes slightly longer than broad. 



Fonn.— Cephalothorax highest between the posterior eyes and the 

 dorsal groove, in front more than one-half its greatest transverse diam- 

 eter ( 9 ) or less (d^) and truncated (9) or rounded (d^). Sides of 

 head moderately oblique and rounded. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, 

 much longer than the width of the clypeus, in length about 2.5 times 

 the height of the head in front. Labium longer than broad, trimcated 

 apically, fully one-half the length of the maxilljp. Legs strong with 

 short spines ; leg IV to cephalothorax as 4 : 1 ; metatarsus IV shorter 

 than patella and tibia combined. 9 palpal claw with 3 minute teeth. 

 (^ palpal tibia twice as long as the patella, and narrower, the point of 

 the tarsus fully as long as the bulbus. Anterior spinnerets longest. 



Comparisons. — This differs from the European form, judging from 

 Simon's description {Arachnides de France), in that the fourth tibia and 

 patella combined are considerably longer than the cephalothorax 

 (instead of the same length), and in that the fourth leg is 4 times the 

 length of the cephalothorax instead of 3.3 times. The two species may 

 prove to be distinct. 



The Texas specimens differ from the northern ones in large size 

 ( 9 with a cephalothoracal length of 7.5 mm.), and in being much paler 

 colored. 



Habits. — In the North this is a species of the sea coast. At Austin 

 it is common, particularly in the fall, under stones close to fresh water. 



Trocliosa frondicola (Emerton). 



Lycosa frondicola Emerton, 1885 



Lycosa frondicola Emerton, Stone, 1890. 



Lycosa frondicola Emerton, Montgomery, 1902, 1903. 



(Specimens from Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.) 

 Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, middle eyes larger 

 and slightly lower, nearer the clypeal margin than to the second row. 

 Eyes of second row largest, 1.4 times their diameter apart. Dorsal 

 eye area to cephalothorax as 1:5. Quadrilateral of the posterior 

 eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax slightly highest behind the middle, in front 

 truncated and quite (c?) or more than ( 9 ) one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, with the sides of the head oblique. Chelicera with 3 

 pairs of teeth, longer than the width of the clypeus, their length twice 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



the height of the head in front. Labium longer than broad, apically 

 truncated, one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum large, longer 

 than broad. Leg IV to cephalothorax, c? 3.8 : 1,^ 9 3 : 1.' Metatar- 

 sus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined. 9 palpal claw with 

 3 teeth. 



Trochosa sepulchralis (Montg.). 



Lycosa sepulchralis Montgomery, 1902, 1903. 

 (Specimens from Pennsylvania, and from Austin, Texas.) 

 Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, middle eyes twice as 

 large as the lateral, straight (c?) or middle eyes lower ( $ ), equidistant 

 from the second row and the margin of the clypeus (?) or upon the 

 margin of the clypeus (c^). Eyes of second row three-fourths their 

 diameter apart. Dorsal eye area to cephalothoraxas 1 : 7. Quadri- 

 lateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax highest between the posterior eyes and the 

 dorsal groove, the sides of the head oblique, in front more than one-half 

 as broad as its greatest transverse diameter (?) or less ( c? ) . Che- 

 licera with 3 pairs of teeth, their length about 2.5 times the height of 

 the head in front, as long (cJ*) or longer ( 9 ) than the width of the cly- 

 peus. Labium longer than broad, apically truncated, in the 9 one- 

 half the length of the maxillge but less in the c?. Sternum large wdth 

 few hairs. Anterior spinnerets longest. Leg IV to cephalothorax, 

 cJ' 4 : 1, 9 3.3 : 1. Metatarsus IV shorter than the patella and tibia 

 combined. 9 palpal claw 'udth 3 pairs of teeth. 



Trochosa rubicunda Keys. PI. XIX, fig. 30. 



Trochosa rubicunda Keyserling, 1876. 

 Lycosa polita Emerton, 1885. 



(One 9 from Massachusetts, from J. H. Emerton.) 

 Eyes. — First row broader than the second on each side by the 

 diameter of a lateral eye, the middle eyes slightly lower than the lateral 

 and larger. Eyes of the second row largest, one-half their diameter 

 apart. Third row slightly wider than the first. Ocular area much 

 wider than long, and not more than one-ninth the length of the cepha- 

 lothorax. 



Form. — Cephalothorax mthout hairs, rounded anteriorly where it is 

 more than one-half its greatest diameter, highest at the middle and 

 gradually sloping down to the eye region, oblique on the sides. Che- 

 licera mth 3 pairs of teeth, longer than the width of the clypeus, their 

 length three times the height of the head in front. Labium longer 

 than broad, slightly concave apically, less than one-half the length of 

 the maxillae. Sternum very large and with few hairs, truncated 




£08 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maicll 



straight anteriorly and pointed posteriorly. Anterior spinnerets long- 

 est. Legs short and thick, 1 ventral spine on tibia I, 2 on tibia II, 

 3 pairs on tibia? Ill and lY ; metatarsus IV shorter than patella and 

 tibia combined; leg IV to cephalothorax as 2.-4 : 1. 



Trochosa sublata (Montg.). 



Lycosa sublata Montgomery, 1902. 



( 9 , type, Point Pleasant, New Jersey.) 



Eyes. — First row slightly broader than the second, straight, nearer 

 the second row than to the clypeal margin, middle eyes slightly larger. 

 Eyes of second row largest, their diameter apart. Third row slightly 

 broader than the first, its eyes more than twice their diameter behind 

 the second row. Quadrilateral of the posterior ej'es longer than broad. 

 Dorsal eye area to length of cephalothorax as 1 : 5. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front somewhat roimded and more than 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter, highest at the middle ; head 

 low and its sides obhcjue. Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, their length 

 greater than the width of the clypeus and c^uite 3 times the height of 

 the head in front. Labium longer than wide, truncated apically, not 

 one-half the length of the maxillae. Legs thick, metatarsus IV shorter 

 than patella and tibia combined. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax 

 as 3.6 : 1. 



Genus PIRATA SundevaU, 1S33. 



The main combinations of characters of this genus are : The first eye 

 row is fully as broad as the second (slightly shorter in elegans and 

 nigromaculatus) ; the length of the posterior spinnerets is quite 1.5 

 times that of the anterior, frecjuently twice; the metatarsus IV is in 

 both sexes shorter than the patella and tibia combined by only one- 

 third the length of the patella (one-half in marxi); the inferior tarsal 

 claw is toothed (except in marxi) ; the sides of the head are oblique 

 (except in elegans and the c? of liher) ; the chelicera are weak, rather 

 straight anteriorly, their length not more, usually less, than twice the 

 height of the head in front; the labium is large and longer than broad. 

 The chelicera have 2 or 3 teeth on the posterior border. The eyes of 

 the second row are less than L5 times their diameter apart. The cepha- 

 lothorax is highest behind the middle, or in the cephalic region (elegans). 

 Tibia I has 3 ventral pairs of spines. The length of leg TV to the cepha- 

 lothorax varies from 3.3 : 1 to 4.6 : 1 ; the legs have generally long spines 

 and frec^uently fine long hairs. 



It is somewhat doubtful whether this genus is a homogeneous one; 

 marxi approaches Trochosa, and elegans, Lycosa. There are also some 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



resemblances to Aidonia. All the species of Pirata known to me live 

 beneath stones close to water, and spin for themselves during the cold 

 season little closed nests. 



Key to Species of Pirata. ' 



a. 1. — Eyes of the second row not more than one-half their diameter 

 apart, chelicera with 2 teeth on the posterior margn, , marxi. 

 a. 2. — Eyes of the second row nearly or quite their diameter apart, 

 chelicera with 3 teeth on the posterior margin. 

 b. 1. — Sternum blackish with a yellow median band and 3 yellow 

 spots on each side, cephalothorax of the 9 only one- 

 quarter longer than broad, prodigiosus Keyserling, 1876. 

 b. 2. — Sternum not so colored, cephalothorax in the 9 one-half 

 longer than broad. 

 c. 1. — Venter with dark bands or rows of dark spots, femora 



usually distinctly annulated, liber. 



c. 2. — Not so colored. 



d. 1. — Legs almost devoid of hairs, . . . elegans, 

 d. 2. — liCgs covered with fine soft hairs. 



e. 1. — A large dark spot at each side of the spin- 

 nerets, ? with leg IV 3.3 times the length 

 of the cephalothorax, . nigromacidatus. 

 €. 2. — No such black spots, $ with leg IV 4.4 times 

 the length of the cephalothorax, 



sedentarius. 



Pirata marxi Stone. PI. XIX, fig, 27. 



Pirata marxi Stone, 1890. 

 Pirata marxi Stone, Montgomery, 1902. 

 Pirata piraticus Clerck, Emerton, 1S85. 

 nee Pirata piraticus Clerck. 



( ? ) type, Pennsylvania; 9 from Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row fully as broad as the second, straight, nearer the 

 second row than the margin of the clypeus, the middle eyes only slightly 

 larger than the lateral. Eyes of the second row one-half their diameter 

 apart. Length of dorsal e3^e area to cephalothorax as 1 : 5.5. Quad- 

 rilateral of the posterior ej'es much wider than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax without hairs, highest behind the posterior 

 eyes, posterior declivity very abrupt and steep, in front one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter. Chelicera with 3 teeth anteriorly and 

 2 posteriorly, rather straight anteriorly, their length greater than the 

 width of the clypeus and about twice the height of the head in front. 

 Labium longer than Inroad and more than one-half the length of the 

 maxillse, broadest behind its middle, rounded apically. Sternum large, 

 nearly round. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 3.8 : 1; meta- 

 tarsus IV shorter than patella and tibia combined by one-half the 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [iMarch, 



length of the patella. No teeth on the inferior tarsal claws. Palpal 

 claw with 5 teeth. 



Comparisons. — This is the species identifiecl by Emerton with the 

 European piraticus. But they are distinct, judging from the descrip- 

 tion given by Simon in his Arachnides de France. The structure of the 

 epigyna differs; in marxi the median anterior eyes are but little larger 

 than the lateral (instead of almost double their size) and almost con- 

 tiguous (instead of being separated by a little more than their diam- 

 eter), and further, these median eyes are much nearer each other than 

 to the lateral; in jnarxi also tibia and patella IV combined are longer 

 than the cephalothorax (instead of shorter) ; and there are differences 

 in coloration. 



Pirata elegans Stone. 



Pirata elegans Stone, 1890. 



Pirata elegans Stone, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Four 9 9 , types, York county, Pennsylvania.) 



Eyes. — First row somewhat shorter than the .second, middle eyes 

 slightly higher and a little smaller than the lateral, and nearer each 

 other than to the lateral, equidistant from the clypeal margin and the 

 second row. Eyes of the second row largest, slightly more than their 

 diameter apart. Third row broadest, its eyes about twice their diam- 

 eter behind the second row. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes as 

 long as broad. Length of dorsal eye area to cephalothorax as 1 : 4.3. 



Forin. — Cephalothorax in front truncated and not quite one-half its 

 greatest transverse diameter, highest at the posterior eyes, sides of 

 head rather steep, head projecting in front of the clypeus. Chelicera 

 with 3 pairs of teeth, their length greater than the width of the clypeus 

 and not quite twice the height of the head in front, nearly straight 

 anteriorly. Labium longer than broad, not one-half the length of 

 the maxillae, widest just behind its middle, rounded apically. Sternum 

 longer than broad. Posterior spinnerets longest (almost twice the 

 length of the anterior). Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 3.7 : 1; 

 metatarsus IV not quite as long as patella and tibia combined. One 

 tooth on the inferior tarsal claw. 



Comparisons. — ^This species is intermediate between Lycosa and 

 Pirata, resembling the former in the height of the head and the short- 

 ness of the first eye row. 



Pirata nigromaoulatus Montg. 



Pirata nigromaculatus Montgomery, 1902. 



(Types, Luzerne county, Pennsylvania.) 



Eyes. — First row almost as broad as the second, equidistant from the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



clypeal margin and the second row, eyes equal, straight or the middle 

 eyes slightly higher. Eyes of the second row largest, 1.3 times their 

 diameter apart. Third row broadest, its eyes nearly twice their 

 diameter behind the second row. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes 

 broader than long. Length of the dorsal eye area to the cephalo- 

 thorax as 1 : 4.8. 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front rounded (?) or truncated straight 

 (c?), almost ( 9 ) or decidedly less (6^) than one-half its greatest trans- 

 verse diameter, about equally high at the posterior eyes and the middle, 

 the eyes projecting in front of the clypeus. Chehcera with 3 pairs of 

 teeth, nearly straight anteriorly, their length greater than the width of 

 the clypeus and about 1.8 times the height of the head in front . Labium 

 longer than broad, about one-half the length of the maxillae, truncated 

 (?) or rounded (c^) apically. Posterior spinnerets nearly double the 

 length of the anterior. Metatarsus IV shorter than the patella and 

 tibia combined ; length of leg IV to cephalothorax ( 9 ) as 3.3 : 1. 

 Inferior tarsal claw with 1 tooth. 



Pirata liber Montg. 



Pirata liber Montgomery, 1902, 1903. 



(Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachu- 

 setts.) 



Eyes. — First row almost or quite as broad as the second, straight, 

 equidistant from the second row and the clypeal margin, eyes adequal. 

 Eyes of the second row 1.3 times their diameter apart. Length of the 

 dorsal eye area to the cephalothorax as 1 : 5.5. Quadrilateral of the 

 posterior eyes much broader than long. 



Form. — Cephalothorax very slightly higher behind the middle than 

 at the posterior eyes (?) or decidedly highest at the median groove (c?) ; 

 the median groove lies on the dorsal surface and not on the posterior 

 declivity, this declivity being very abrupt in the c^ ; the cephalothorax 

 in front is almost (?) or decidedly less (c?) than one-half its greatest 

 transverse diameter ; the sides of the head nearly vertical ( c? ) or more 

 oblique ( ? ). Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, weak and straight in front, 

 their length about 1.75 times the height of the head in front and (in 

 the ? ) shorter than the width of the clypeus. Labium large, truncated 

 apically, longer than broad, fully one-half the length of the maxillse. 

 Sternum longer than broad. Posterior spinnerets more than twice 

 the length of the anterior. Metatarsus IV a little shorter than the 

 patella and tibia combined. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax ( ? ) 

 as 3.3 : 1. Palpi and legs with long soft hairs, most noticeable on the 




312 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Maich, 



tibise and metatarsi (especially in the c?). Inferior tarsal claw with 2 

 or 3 teeth. 9 palpal claw with 3 or 4 teeth. 



Pirata sedentarius n. sp. PI. XIX, figs. 28, 29. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas.) 



Eyes. — First row as broad or slightly broader than the second, 

 straight or the middle eyes a little higher, equidistant from the second 

 row and the clypeal margin, the middle eyes largest and slightly nearer 

 to the lateral eyes than to each other. Eyes of the second row slightly 

 more than their diameter apart. Third row considerably broader than 

 the second. Quadrilateral of the posterior eyes broader than long. 

 Length of the dorsal eye area to the cephalothorax as 1 : 6, 



Form. — Cephalothorax in front truncated and not one-half its great- 

 est transverse diameter, highest at the median groove, the posterior 

 declivity making an angle of 45° with the dorsal contour. Sides of the 

 head low and rounded, with long scattered hairs in the cephalic region. 

 Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth, nearly straight in front in the o" , but 

 more arched and robust in the 9 , their length about twice the height 

 of the head in front. Labium longer than wide, apically truncated, 

 more than one-half the length of the maxillse. Maxillae slender, only 

 slightly enlarged distally, with nearly parallel sides, convex on the inner 

 and concave on the outer border. Sternum much longer than wide, 

 pointed posteriorly. Posterior spinnerets twice the length of the 

 anterior. Legs with long spines and (particularly on the til)ia and 

 metatarsus of I and II) with long soft hairs. Palpi long and slender. 

 Metatarsus IV a little shorter than patella and tibia combined ; length 

 of leg IV to cephalothorax as (c?) 4.6 : 1, ( 9 ) 4.4 : L Inferior tarsal 

 claw with 1 or 2 teeth. 9 palpal claw wuth 4 teeth. 



Dimensions. cJ^ 9 



Cephalothorax 2.3 2.5 



Abdomen, 2.4 2.6 



Leg 1 9.3 8 



Leg II, 8 7.5 



Leg III 6 6.8 



Leg IV 10.5 11 



Color (in alcohol). — The cephalothorax is marked with pale yellow 

 and pale brown ; the yellow forms a median band (half as wide as the 

 eye area) extending from this area to the median groove, and continu- 

 ing from there as a slightly broader band to the posterior margin; 

 a little distance behind each posterior eye is another yellow band 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



which joins the median one at the median groove; there is a broader 

 yellow submarginal band which does not extend to the head; the 

 remainder of the cephalothorax is pale brown. Sternum yellow like the 

 coxae, ■with a narrow brown margin. Ahdoinen above with a rather 

 narrow median yellow band largest at the anterior end and narrowing 

 to a point at the middle; from this point to the posterior end, with 

 more or less distinctness, is a series of 4-5 broad transverse yellow 

 markings, and a larger elongate yellow mark on each side of the median 

 band; all these yellow markings are demarcated by a ground color 

 of pale brown or dark greenish. The sides are mottled or streaked 

 with yellow or brown; the venter uniform pale yellow or pale brown. 

 E-pigynimi black. Chelicera and maxillce shining brownish, labium, 

 darker. Legs yellow, femora annulated with greenish or brownish, 

 a white ring at the middle of the tibise; in the c^ the tibise, tarsi and 

 metatarsi of I and II and the metatarsi of IV are darker than the other 

 joints. Palpi yellowish, in the cJ^ the tarsal joint is brown. 



Comparisons. — ^This species differs from the related liber mainly in 

 form; greater relative length of legs; their greater hairiness; sides of 

 the head very oblique in the d" instead of vertical; the posterior 

 decHvity of the cephalothorax in the 6^ much less steep. 



Habits. — ^'ery abundant at Austin, under moist stones close to 

 water. 



Key to the North American Genera of Pisaurid^. 



(This key has been compiled from Simon, 1898, since I have not seen 

 representatives of the genera Maypacius and Thanatidius.) 



a. 1. — Area of the middle eyes longer than Inroad; tarsi usually pro- 

 vided with an onychium. 

 b. 1. — First eye row strongly procurved, the lateral usually larger 

 than the middle eyes ; clypeus narrow. 

 c. 1. — Lateral anterior eyes with the middle anterior occupy- 

 ing an area not broader than long, 



Maypacius Simon, 1898. 

 c. 2. — Lateral anterior eyes with the middle anterior occupy- 

 ing an area much broader than long, 



Thanatidius Simon, 1898. 

 b. 2. — First eye row straight, eyes subequal; clypeus broad, 



Pisaurijia. 



a. 2. — Area of the middle eyes broader, or not less broad, than long; 



tarsi without an onychium, Dolomedes. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Marcll, 



Genus DOLOMEDES Latreille, 1804. 



Key to the Species of Dolomedes. 



(For the females only.) 



a. 1. — Second eye row broader than the first, posterior edge of the eyes 

 of the second row on a line with the anterior edge of the eyes 

 of the third row, , , . scapularis Koch, Keyserling, 1876. 

 a. 2. — Eyes not so. 



b. 1. — Head not demarcated from the cephalothorax; cephalo- 



thorax with a very distinct, white submarginal band; 



sternum with 3 pairs of black spots, . . sexpundatus. 



b. 2. — Head demarcated from the cephalothorax ; not so colored. 



c. 1. — Median piece of epigynum only one-half its length; 



leg IV longer than I by less than one-third the length 



of its terminal joint, idoneus. 



c. 2. — Median piece of the epigynum extending its whole 

 length; leg IV longer than I by almost the full 

 length of its terminal joint. 

 d. 1. — Epigynum distinctly broader than long; legs imi- 

 form dark color without rings below, with indis- 

 tinct yellowish markings on the superior surface 

 of the femora, coxse the same color as the ster- 

 num; sternum with median band indistinct; 

 cephalothorax without a yellow median line; 

 abdominal dorsum with a yellow median band, 

 anteriorly to the anterior end of which joins a 

 pair of less distinct yellow lines, and posteriorly 

 with 3 pairs of small white spots connected by 

 transverse whitish lines that are slightly curved , 



urinator. 

 d. 2. — Epigynum almost as long as broad; legs above 

 with distinct yellow marbling on the femora, 

 below with distinct rings on the patellse, tibiae 

 and metatarsi, the coxae below clear yellow and 

 lighter than the sternum; sternum blackish 

 with a distinct yellow median band; cephalo- 

 thorax with a distinct yellow median line; 

 abdominal dorsum anteriorly with 3 pairs of 

 lateral yellow lines connected with the median 

 one, posteriorly without pairs of white spots and 

 with a series of transverse yellow bands each of 

 the shape of a W, fontarms. 



Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz. PI. XX, fig. 34. 



Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz, 1841. 

 Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 

 Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz, Montgomery, 1903. 



(Numerous specimens from Austin, Texas, and one from Massachu- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Eyes. — First row broader than the second, much nearer to the second 

 row than the clypeal margin, middle eyes lower and slightly larger. 

 Eyes of the second row quite their diameter apart ( 9 ) or less (d^). 

 Third row broadest, its eyes on tubercles and nearly as large as those of 

 the second row. Dorsal eye area about one-seventh the length of the 

 cephalothorax. Quadrilateral of the middle eyes as long as Inroad ( 9 ) 

 or slightly broader than long (d^). 



Form (c^). — The d^ differs from the ? in the cephalothoracal out- 

 line being much more rounded, the head in front only one-third its 

 greatest transverse diameter, the clypeus vertical so that the eyes pro- 

 ject forward beyond it. The legs are very slender, the fourth longest 

 and 5.8 times the length of the cephalothorax, the first slightly longer 

 than the second, the third extending only to the end of the metatarsus 

 of the second. The palpal tibia has a large process on its external 

 surface as long as length of the tibia, and with a small tooth on the 

 ventral distal apex. 



Dimensions. d^ $ from Texas- 



Cephalothorax, 4.5 9.5 



Abdomen, 4 11 



Leg I, 25 35 



Leg II, 24 34.5 



Leg III, 21 32 



Leg IV, 26 40 



Color of Male (specimen from Austin, in alcohol). — Cephalothorax 

 pale yellowish-brown, sides below the submarginal white stripe darker, 

 otherwise as in the ? . Sternum pale yellowish-white with 3 pairs of 

 distinct dark spots. Abdomen with the dorsal pattern very distinct. 

 There is a dorso-median band along its entire length, yellow in color 

 and bordered on each side by a somewhat narrower blackish band con- 

 taining a row of 5 white spots, the two anterior of which are largest and 

 furthest apart, while the three posterior are connected with the corre- 

 sponding ones of the opposite side by transverse white lines; lateral 

 to each of these blackish bands is a broader greenish-brown stripe. 

 The sides are whitish, finely streaked with brownish. The venter is 

 pale yellow. Legs very pale yellow, metatarsi and tarsi a little darker. 

 Palpi pale yellow, the spine of the tibia and the lower surface of the 

 palpal organ black. 



Form (?). — Cephalothorax in front truncated straight, somewhat 

 less than one-half its greatest transverse diameter, its greatest diameter 

 barely equalling the distance from the third eye row to the posterior 

 margin, the cephalic portion not demarcated from the thoracic, highest 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



behind the middle, posterior dechvity very steep, clypeus obliquely 

 inclined. Chelicera with 4 teeth on the inferior margin. Sternum 

 longer than broad, rounded. Labium slightly longer than broad, 

 truncated straight apically, widest a little behind its middle. Relative 

 length of legs IV, II, I, III, III only shghtly shorter than I and 11, all 

 rather stout and scopulated; length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 

 4.3 : 1. 



Remarks. — The Texas specimens are larger than the northern ones, 

 and the femora are more or less banded above wdth brownish. 



Habits. — Very abundant at Austin, under the stones close to streams. 

 Females with cocoons are most abundant in the fall. An adult male 

 was found in November, and numerous nearly full-grown males in 

 January. 



Dolomedes fontanus Emerton. PI. XX, figs. 35-37. 



Dolomedes fontanus Emerton, 1885. 

 "f Dolomedes scripius Hentz, 1841. 



(Specimens from Pennsylvania and North Carolina.) 

 Eyes. — As in urinator. 



Form. — The general form of the 9 , proportions of the legs, mouth 

 parts, etc., are as in urinator. The c? differs in having the truncated 

 anterior end of the cephalothorax but little broader than one-fourth 

 its greatest transverse diameter, in the cephalothorax being distinctly 

 highest behind the middle, and in the greater slenderness of the legs, 

 which in order of length are IV, I, II, III. The palpus is longer than 

 ,the cephalothorax, its terminal joint large, the tibia with an elevated 

 lamina on the outer side, this lamina longer than wide and with its 

 free border forming two larger and one smaller tooth, the ventral apical 

 edge of the tibia with two teeth; the proximal dorsal portion of the 

 tarsus has an elongated prominence and a small elevated knob lateral 

 to this. 



Dimensions. cJ* ? 



Cephalothorax, 7 7 



Abdomen, 7 10 



Leg I, 36 30.5 



Leg II 33 31 



Leg III, 32 28 



Leg IV, 37 34 



The largest 9 has a cephalothoracal length of 9 mm. 



Color of Females (in alcohol). — Cephalothorax brown with a narrow 

 median line (splitting into two around the dorsal groove) from the cly- 

 peus to the posterior margin, from the median side of each posterior 

 eye arises a yellow line which passes backward and is so curved that 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



with its fellow of the opposite side it forms nearly a circle, its indistinct 

 posterior end joining the median band anterior to the middle and at 

 the point where a pair of small elongate black spots are apposed to 

 the median line. On each side of the thoracal portion are three sub- 

 marginal, rather broad and always distinct yellow marks which are 

 placed obliquely. The extreme margin is black, and there are reticular 

 black lines radiating from the dorsal groove. Sternum blackish with a 

 yellow median band. Abdomen above greenish-brown, patterned dis- 

 tinctly with yellow as follows: There is a narrow median orange band, 

 pointed at each end, which extends caudad not quite to the middle, 

 from which arises on each side three obhque yellow lines, one from its 

 posterior end, one (the longest) from its middle, and from its anterior 

 end one which passes like the others latero-caudad and then bends at an 

 angle to join the median band where the middle line joins it. On the 

 posterior half of the dorsum are 4 transverse yellow bands, each of the 

 shape of a W, the first of which is broadest and the first and second 

 most distinct. The sides are greenish-brown, the venter paler greenish 

 or yellowish. Chelicera black, labium and maxillm reddish-brown with 

 yellow ends. Legs above more or less distinctly ringed with yellow 

 and reddish-brown, with a number of alternating rings on the femora, 

 patellae brownish, tibiae yellow at the middle and brown at the ends, 

 metatarsi dark at the middle and yellow at the ends, tarsi yellow proxi- 

 mally and brown distally ; below the annulations are not as distinct as 

 above, the femora finely mottled with greenish-brown and yellow, the 

 coxae yellow and lighter than the sternum. Pal-pi like the legs. 



Color of Male (specimen from North Carolina, in alcohol). — Cephalo- 

 thorax with the same pattern as in the ? , but with yellowish-brown in 

 place of dark brown. Abdomen like the 9 , but the yellow lines edged 

 with black. Mouth parts yellow. Legs pale yellow without annula- 

 tions, the distal ends of the tibiae, metatarsi and tarsi black. The pal 

 pus yellow, tibial apophysis and dorsal proximal portion of tarsus 

 black. 



Comparisons. — This may possibly be the same as D. scriptus of Hentz, 

 but that species is hardly recognizable from Hentz's brief description 

 and poor figure. It is nearly related to D. urinator Hentz (cf.). 



Dolomedes urinator Hentz. 



Dolomedes urinator Hentz, 1841. 

 Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 

 Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz, Stone, 1890. 

 Dolomedes urinator Hentz, Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous 9 ? from Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and 

 Austin, Texas; 1 d^ from Massachusetts.) 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Eyes ( $ ). — First row broader than the second, its lateral eyes 

 about their diameter from the second row, nearly straight, the middle 

 eyes being only slightly lower than the lateral. Eyes of the second row 

 almost their diameter apart. Third row broadest, its eyes almost as 

 large as those of the second row and placed upon tubercles. Quadri- 

 lateral of the middle eyes about as broad as long. 



Form ( 9 ). — Cephalothorax in front truncated straight and not quite 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter, highest behind the middle, the 

 cephalic portion demarcated from the thoracic, its greatest transverse 

 diameter equalling the distance from the posterior eyes to its posterior 

 end, clypeus high and slightly inclined. Chelicera with 4 ventral and 

 3 dorsal teeth. Labium slightly longer than broad, shghtly rounded 

 apically, not one-half the length of the maxillae. Sternum rounded. 

 Legs slender, IV, II, I, III, IV longer than I by not quite the length of 

 its terminal joint. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.1 : 1, 

 Femur IV with a tuft of thickened hairs posteriorly near its dis- 

 tal end. 



Color in Alcohol ( 9 ). — The abdominal dorsum in all the specimens 

 shows anteriorly a more or less distinct median yellow line ending in a 

 point in front of the middle, and (generally less distinctly) a short 

 oblique yellow line at each side of its anterior end; on the posterior 

 half are 3 pairs of small white spots, connected transversely by as many 

 black lines which are not of the shape of a W, but slightly curved with 

 the concavity directed caudad; each of these white spots is surrounded 

 by black, and only the 3 pairs on the posterior half of the dorsum are 

 always distinct, but anterior to them are 1-3 pairs which are usually 

 very indistinct (represented usually by small obscure black spots with- 

 out white centers). 



Characters of the c?. — An adult dried specimen of one of the original 

 males, described byEmerton as the male of tenebrosus,wsiS kindly loaned 

 to me by Mr. Emerton. The eyes are as in the $ , the first row almost 

 straight. The legs are in order I, II, IV, III. Femur IV has on its 

 posterior border near the distal end a prominent bunch of long thick- 

 ened hairs or short spines, which are much more prominent than in the 

 female. The palpal tibia has on its outer surface a long curved tooth, 

 and is on its ventro-distal border prolonged into a long toothed pro- 

 cess ; the palpus is longer than the cephalothorax. This being a dried 

 specimen it is difficult to compare it with the alcoholic specimens of 

 the females ; but the color of the legs is the same, and also the general 

 abdominal pattern (the 3 pairs of white spots are very distinct, and also 

 the slightly curved transversed blackish lines connecting them); the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 319 



cephalothorax has a broad submarginal white band on each side, con- 

 tinued also across the forehead. 



Comparisons. — There is no doubt that this is the urinator of Hentz ; 

 it possesses the pairs of small white spots on each posterior abdominal 

 dorsum, and the slightly curved black lines (not of the shape of a W) 

 connecting them, all shown distinctly in Hentz's figure. It is closely 

 related to fontanus, and the epigyna of the two are very similar, but in 

 urinator it is always much broader than long, and its median piece has 

 a transverse groove just behind the middle, while in fontanus it is nearly 

 as long as broad and is without such a groove. There are a number of 

 constant differences, expressed in the key, which will serve to separate 

 the species. The females of idoneus may be easily distinguished from 

 those of both urinator and jonianus by the entirely different structure 

 of the epigynum, and by leg IV being longer than I by less than one- 

 third the length of the terminal joint. 



Dolomedes idoneus Montgomery. 



Dolomedes idoneus Montgomery, 1902. 

 ?Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz, 1841. 



( 9 9 from Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachusetts.) 



Eyes. — First row broader than the second, its middle eyes shghtly 

 larger and decidedly lower than the lateral (the dorsal margin of the 

 middle eyes extends dorsad to a little beyond the level of the ventral 

 margin of the lateral eyes), lateral eyes quite twice their diameter in 

 front of the eyes of the second row. Eyes of the second row not quite 

 their diameter apart. Third row broadest, its eyes on tubercles. 

 Quadrilateral of the middle eyes as broad as long. 



Form ( ? ) . — Cephalothorax in front truncated straight, not quite 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter, the cephalic portion demar- 

 cated from the thoracic, highest at the posterior eyes. Chelicera with 

 4 ventral and 3 dorsal teeth. Labium as in urinator. Sternum 

 slightly longer than broad. Legs rather slender, IV, II, I, III, IV and 

 II nearly equal in length. Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.1 : 1. 



Comparisons. — Of all of Hentz's species this most nearly approaches 

 his tenebrosus. But as I wrote before (1902), Hentz's description is 

 entirely insufficient as a diagnosis; further, he placed tenebrosus under 

 the 'Henebrosse" with the "eyes subequal, lower row as much curved 

 as the upper," which is not the case in idoneus; and his figm-e of the 

 mouth parts shows them entirely different from the condition in idoneus. 

 It is high time that tenebrosus, which has occasioned so much dispute, 

 should be allowed to fall into the synonymy on account of being 

 insufficiently characterized. 




320 ^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



■ Genus PISAURINA Simon, 1898. 

 Pisaurina mira (Walck.). 



Dolomedes mira Walckenaer, 1837. 

 Dolomedes virgatus Idem. 

 Micrommata undata Hentz, 1841, 

 Micrommata serrata Idem, 

 nee Micrommata carolinensis Hentz, 1841. 

 Ocyale undota Hentz, Emerton, 1885. 

 Ocyale undata Hentz, Stone,1890. 

 Pisaurina mira Walck., Simon, 1898. 

 Ocyale undata (Hentz), Montgomery, 1902. 



(Numerous specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachu- 

 setts and Texas.) 



Eyes (9). — First row separated from the clypeal margin by about 

 the diameter of its eyes, broader than the second row, almost straight 

 eyes equidistant, the middle slightly larger. Second row slightly 

 broader than the area of the middle eyes of the first, its eyes not quite 

 their diameter apart, slightly more than their diameter behind the first 

 row and in diameter about 1.3 times the middle eyes of that row. 

 Third row broadest, its eyes on tubercles and as large as those of the 

 second row. Quadrilateral of the middle eyes longer than wide. 



For?n (9). — Cephalothorax in front truncated straight and quite 

 one-half its greatest transverse diameter, the cephalic portion quite 

 well demarcated from the thoracic, about equally high at the posterior 

 eyes and the dorsal groove, the clypeus nearly vertical. Sternum 

 almost as broad as long, pointed behind. Labium widest at the middle, 

 fully as wide as long, not one-half the length of the maxilla^, shghtly 

 convex apically. Posterior spinnerets longest. Legs slender, scopulse 

 not apparent, II, I, IV, III, legs I, II, and IV nearly equal in length. 

 Length of leg IV to cephalothorax as 4.4 : 1. 



Chelicera with 3 pairs of teeth. 



Form (d^). — The eyes are as in the ? , also the form and the relative 

 length of the legs. The palpal tibia has on its outer border one small 

 pointed tooth, little longer than wide. 



Color of Male (in alcohol). — The only adult specimen seen (one from 

 Massachusetts, loaned by Mr. Emerton) had the cephalothoracal pat- 

 tern as in the 9 , but with the median band little darker than the sides. 

 The abdomen above with the narrow green median line on the anterior 

 half as in the ? , but the broad brown band not at all defined, so that 

 the dorsum is pale orange with on each side a row of several pale yellow, 

 short oblique lines, corresponding in position to the margin of the broad 

 brown band in the 9 . The rest of the coloration as in the 9 . 



Nearly mature males from Texas have the dorsal dark bands as 

 distinct as in the female. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE I. 



/fT"» ;^.-*>J; 



^—'vfrtd ' 







a 



^fl. 



7b 



li^ 



Winchester del. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE II. 



Vanatta de 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE III. 



Vauatta del. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE IV. 



Vixnatta del 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE V. 



Vanatta del. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE VI. 



Winchester ilel 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE VII. 



BANKS. ARACHNIDA OF FLORIDA. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE VIII. 



BANKS. ARACHNIDA OF FLORIDA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE IX. 



CHAPMAN ON PRIMATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE X. 



CHAPMAN ON PRIMATES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XI. 



MOORE. SABELLID^e AND SERPULID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XII. 



MOORE. SABELLID.^ AND SERPULID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



S.i. 



PLATE XIII. 



STEVENS. PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA CURTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XIV. 



// 



xo 



J. 2. 



STEVENS. PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA CURTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XV. 



STEVENS. PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA CURTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XVI. 







"^^■■r 



1° !c°o '-. 



X 



W • -n. 









6^ 



fV^MS*' 



:^'^ 



STEVENS. PLANARIA SIMPLISSIMA CURTIS 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XVIII. 



MONTGOMERY ON LYCOSIDyE AND PISAURID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XIX. 



MONTGOMERY ON LYCOSlDyK AND PISAURID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904 



PLATE XX. 



MONTGOMERY ON LYCOSID^C AND PISAURID.^. 





1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Dimensions of o'. 



Cephalothorax, 5 



Abdomen, 6 



Leg 1 32.5 



Leg II 34 



Leg III, 27 



Leg IV, 30.5 



Literature, 



(A complete list of all papers in which there are descriptions of Lycosidse 

 and Pisauridse from the Continent of North America north of Mexico, but not 

 including faunal lists and papers on the habits.) 



Banks, N. 1892. The Spider Fauna of the Upper Cayuga Lake Basin. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Set. Phila. 



1894. On the Lycosidse of Colorado. Journ. Neio York Entom. Soc, 2. 



1894a. Some Missouri Spiders. Entom. News, Philadelphia, 5. 



18946. A List of Spiders of Long Island, etc. Journ. New York Entom. 



Soc. 



1896. The Arachnida of Colorado. Ann. New York Acad., S. 



1899. Some Spiders from Northern Louisiana. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash- 

 ington, 4. 



1901. Notes on Some Spiders of Walckenaer, Koch and others. Journ. 



New York Entom. Soc, 9. 



1900. Arachnida. Papers from the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Proc. 



W ashing f 071 Acad. Sci., 2. 



• 1901. Some Arachnida from New Mexico. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Blackwall, J. 1846. Notice of Spiders Captured by Professor Potter in 



Canada. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist , 17. 



1871. Notice of Spiders Captured by Miss Hunter in Montreal, etc. Ibid. 



Clerck, C. 1757. Svenska Spindlar. 



CoMSTOCK, J. H. 1903. A Classification of North American Spiders. Ithaca, 



N. Y. 

 Cragin. Contribution to the Knowledge of the Arachnida of Kansas. Bull. 



Washburn Coll., 1. 

 Emerton, J. H. 1885. New England Lycosidse. Trans. Connecticut Acad. 



Sci., 6. 



1895. Canadian Spiders. Ibid., 9. 



Fabricius, J. C. 1775. Systema entomologica. 



GiEBEL, (J. G. 1869. Ueber einige Spinnen aus Illinois. Verh. zool.-bot. Ges. 



Witn, 33. 

 GiRAE-^, C. 1854. Marcy's Exploration of the Red River, Louisiana, 

 Hentz, N. M. 1841. Descriptions and Figures of the Araneids of the United 



States. Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., 4. 



1875. The Spiders of the United States. Edited by Edward Burgess, 



Boston, 



Keyserling, 1876. Ueber amerikanische Spinnenarten der Unterordnung Citi- 

 gradse. Verh. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien. 



1887. Neue Spinnen aus Amerika. VII. Ibid., 37. 



Koch, C. 1848. Die Arachniden. 



Latreille. 1804. Araignee. Nouveau Dictionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle. 

 McCooK, H. M. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1888, 



1878. Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, 7. 



1893. American Spiders and their Spinning Work. Vol. 3, Philadelphia, 



Marx, G. 1881. On Some New Tube-constructing Spiders. Amer. Nat. 



- — — 1890. Catalogue of the Described Araneaj of Temperate North America, 

 Proc U. S. Nat. Mus , 12, 



21 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Montgomery, T. H., Jr. 1902. Descriptions of Lycosidse and Oxyopidfc of 

 Philadelphia and Its Vicinity. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



1903. Supplementary Notes on Spiders of the Genera Lycosa, Pardosa, 



Pirata and Dolomedes from the Northeastern United States. Ibid. 



ScuDDER, S. H, 1877. The Tube-constructing Ground Spider of Nantucket. 



Psyche, 2. 

 Simon, E. 1876. Les Arachnides de France, 3, Paris. 



1888. Ann. Soc. Entom. France. 



1898a. Histoire naturelle des Araignees, 2 ed., 2, Paris. 



18986. Descriptions d' Arachnides nouveaux des families des Agalenidrc, 



Pisauridae, Lycosidse et Oxyopidac. Ann. Soc. Enfom. Belgique, 42. 



Stone, W. 1890. Pennsylvania and New Jersey Spiders of the Family Ly- 

 cosidse. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Thorell, T. 1872. Om nagra Arachnider fram Gronland. Ofvcrs. Vet.-Aknd. 

 Forhandl. Stockholm, 29. 



1875. Notice of Some Spiders from Labrador. Proc. Bo.^ton Soc. Nat. 



Hist.. 17. 



1877. Descriptions of the Aranc» Collected in Colorado, etc. BuU. U. S. 



Geol. Survey of the Territories, 3. 



Walckenaer, M. 1837. Histoire naturelle des Insectes, Apteres. Suites a 

 Buffon, Paris. 



Explanation of Plates XVIII, XIX, XX. 



All the figures have been drawn by me with the aid of the camera lucida, but the 



degree of magnification varies for the different figures. All the drawings 



of the palpal organs were made from the right-hand palpus. 



Plate XVIII, Fig. 1. — Jjycosa euepigynata, r^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 2. — Idem, 9 , type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 3. — Lycosa insopita, (^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 4. — Idem, 9 , type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 5. — Lycosa antelucana, (^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 6. — Idem, 9 , type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 7. — Lycosa pictilis, (^ , palpal organ. 

 Fig. 8. — Idem. 9 , epigynum. 



Fig. 9. — Trochosa noctuabunda, (^, t\-pe, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 10. — Idem, 9, type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 11. — Lycosa mccooki, 9, co-type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 12. — Trochosa avara, c^, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 13. — Geolycosa texana, (^, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 14. — Idem, 9 , type, epigynum. 



Plate XIX, Fig. 15. — Geolycosa latifrons, (^, tj-pe, palpal organ 

 Fig. 16. — Idem, 9, type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 17. — Idem, 9 , dorsal view of cephalothorax. 

 Fig. 18. — Idem, 9 , lateral view of cephalothorax. 

 Fig. 19. — Geolycosa baltimoriana, (^, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 20. — Pardosa mercurialis, (^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 21. — Idem, 9, type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 22. — Pardosa pauxilla, ^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 23. — Idem. 9, type, epigynum. 

 Fig. 24. — Pardosa lapidicina, (J^, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 25. — Pardosa glacialis, 9, epigynum. 

 Fig. 26. — Pardosa glacialis, 9 , epigynum. 

 Fig. 26. — Pardosa tachypoda, 9 , epigynum. 

 Fig. 27. — Pirata marxi, 9, from Massachusetts, epigynum. 

 Fig. 28. — Pirata sedentarius, (^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 29. — Idem, 9 , type, epigj^num. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Plate XX, Fig. 30. — Trochosa rubicunda, $ , epigynum. 

 Fig. 31. — Trabcea aurantiaca, ^f. palpal organ. 

 Fig. 32. — Idem, (^, lateral view of cephalothorax. 

 Fig. 33. — Aulonia humicola, 9 , lateral view of the cephalothorax. 

 Fig. 34. — -Dolomedes sexpunctatus, (J', palpal organ. 

 Fig. 35. — Dolomedes fontanus, (^, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 36. — Idem, (^ palpal tibia from the ventral surface. 

 Fig. 37. — Idem, 9 , epigynum. 



Figs. 38, 39. — Lycosa inhonesta, 9 9 , epigyna of Texas specimens. 

 Fig. 40. — Lycosa nigra, (^, type, palpal organ. 

 Fig. 41. — Idem, (^, epigynum. 



Fig. 42. — Trochosa avara, epigynum, 9 from Texas. 

 Fig. 43. — Trochosa cinerea, epigynum, 9 from Texas. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



April 5. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D,, in the Chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown made a communication on post-glacial 

 centres of dispersal for reptiles in North America, the substance of 

 which will be embodied in a paper to be presented later. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 325 



THE CELL-LINEAGE AND EARLY LARVAL DEVELOPMENT OF FIONA 



marina, a nudibranch molltjsk.i 

 by dana brackenridge casteel, ph.d. 



Outline. 



Introduction. 



Material and Method. 



Nomenclature. 



Earlier Work on Opisthobranch Development. 



Maturation and Fertilization. 



The Unsegmented Egg. 



First Cleavage. 



Second Cleavage. 



Origin of Germ Layers. 



Segregation of the Ectoblast. 



Segregation of the Ento-Mesoblast. 



Segmentation of the Entoblast. 

 Cleavage History of the Ectomeres. 



The First Quartet. 



The Second Quartet. 



The Third Quartet. 

 Gastrulation. 



Ecto-Mesoblast 



Closure of the Blastopore. 

 Organogeny. 



The Velum. 



Later Velar Development. 



Head Vesicle. 



Nerve and Sense Organs. 

 Cerebral Ganglia. 

 Otocysts and Pedal Ganglia. 

 Eyes. 



Excretory Organs. 



The Enteron. 



Stomodaeum and Mouth. 



Shell Gland and Foot. 



Larval Musculature. 

 Change of Axis and Form of the Developing Organism . 

 Abstract. 

 Table of Cell-Lineage. 



Introduction. 



The study of the cleavage and early larval history of Fiona marina 

 (Forsk.)^ embodied in this paper was undertaken with the view of 



' Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory of the University of Penn- 

 sylvania. 



' Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, has 

 kindlv assisted me in identification. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



obtaining, as far as possible, an exact knowledge of the development 

 of this Opisthobranch, in order that certain doubtful points regarding 

 the embryology of Mollusks in general, and this group in particular, 

 might be better understood. Fiona has proved in many ways a diffi- 

 cult object for study, but in certain respects offers advantages to the 

 investigator. The exact origin of the germ layers as they arise in the 

 segmenting egg has been particularly sought throughout the cleavage 

 history, while in later stages attention has been directed to the rise of 

 larval organs from their particular protoblasts where these could be 

 definitely determined. Where this has been found impossible, approxi- 

 mate results are given. Certain questions have presented themselves 

 both at the beginning and during the progress of this work, some of 

 which may here be indicated briefly. Though it has not been my pur- 

 pose to consider particularly the mechanics of cleavage, this phase 

 of development has been borne in mind, and in certain instances 

 discussed. Comparisons are made between the nearl}^ equal cleavage 

 of Fiona and the more unequal segmentation of many other molluscan 

 and annelidan eggs. The manner of origin of the germ layers is nat- 

 urally a point of cardinal interest to the cell-lineage worker, since by 

 this method of investigation the most exact results are possible and 

 very definite comparisons ■s\'ith other forms may be made. The exact 

 derivation of the middle germ layer has been sought particularly. 

 Has it a single or double mode of origin? If both "primary" and 

 "secondary" mesoderm be present, which is "larval" and which forms 

 permanent organs? How is the mesoderm segregated from the two 

 primary germ layers? In the study of larval structure and develop- 

 ment the excretory organs are of much interest, since widely diverse 

 views are held regarding the mode of origin and the significance of 

 both primitive and definitive molluscan kidneys. The axial relations 

 between ovum and larva and the relations of the early cleavage planes 

 to the median plane of the larva and adult are points of great interest. 

 How and when does bilaterality first appear? Wlien does t^sion 

 first become manifest and what is its immediate cause? These and 

 other questions have arisen and have been borne in mind during the 

 progress of the work. Unfortunately material for the study of later 

 larval stages and metamorphosis has not been obtainable, so that a 

 complete record of development from ovum to adult has been imiDOs- 

 sible. 



The w^ork was begun in the early summer of 1901, at the Zoological 

 Laboratory of the University of Pennsylvania, and continued, together 

 with general graduate study, during the two following years at this 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



University, as well as throughout the two intervening summers at the 

 Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory. 



I am glad to acknowledge the many courtesies extended to me at 

 both institutions. I am particularly indebted to Prof. Conklin, at 

 whose suggestion the work was undertaken, and it is a pleasure to ex- 

 press here my sincere appreciation of the valuable assistance which 

 he has given me bj^ way of suggestion and kindly criticism. 



Material and Methods. 



For the material upon which this study has been made, I am 

 indebted to Drs. E. G. Conklin and M. A. Bigelow, by whom it was 

 collected at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, during the summers of 1897 

 and 1898. The Nudibranchs were found spawning upon floating 

 gulf-weed in Vineyard Sound, taken to the Laboratory and kept in 

 aquaria for some weeks, where they spawned prolifically and where, 

 from day to day, the eggs were collected and preserved. Tliey were 

 fixed in Kleinenberg's stronger picro-sulphuric solution and Boveri's 

 picro-acetic for one-half to three-quarters of an hour and washed in 

 50 and 70 per cent, alcohol, as is the usual custom. Living material 

 upon which to study the breeding habits of the animals has not been 

 accessible to me, though search has been made in the same locality 

 during the last two summers. This lack of the living adult animals 

 and embryonic stages has been a considerable drawback, as it is par- 

 ticularly desirable that one investigating the developmental history of 

 an organism should be able to observe its physiological activities and 

 thereby verify conclusions gained through pureh' morphological work. 

 The material at hand has been amply sufficient for carrying the work 

 up to the stage of the free-swimming veliger, but not to the metamor- 

 phosis. It is my hope that in the near future material for the study 

 of later stages and of the metamorphosis into the adult may be 

 obtained, as many questions relative to the fate of larval organs must 

 remain unanswered until this be accomplished. 



Contrary to the conditions found among some other Nudibranchs, 

 the gelatinous mass surrounding the egg-capsules does not become 

 greatly hardened upon fixing, for upon being brought into water the 

 jelly usually dissolves, leaving the eggs free in their individual capsules. 

 The eggs may be sectioned without removing the jelly, as it cuts 

 without difficulty. Both whole mounts and sections were stained in 

 Delafield's hsematoxylin diluted with six to ten times its volume of 

 distilled water and slightly acidulated by the addition of a trace of 

 HCl, or Kleinenberg's stronger solution after the method of ConkHn. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



This stain gives a reddish tint which differentiates the nuclei with great 

 distinctness. Iron haematoxylin proved entirely unsatisfactory for 

 sections of both early and late stages, for even in the old veligers almost 

 all the cells are found to contain small yolk spherules which take up 

 the haematoxyhn so strongly and hold it so tenaciously that nuclei and 

 cell walls are indistinguishable. Eggs which have just been stained 

 and mounted are not favorable objects for study, but they should, 

 if possible, stand for some time, the longer the better, until they gradu- 

 ally become more transparent by the penetration of balsam. Indeed, 

 the most favorable slides are a few put up at the time the material 

 was collected. By the addition of a little cedar oil to the balsam, or 

 by moistening the edges of the cover with xylol at the time of using, 

 it is always possible to roll the eggs by moving the cover — a very 

 necessary'- process in cell-lineage work. Most of the observation and 

 drawing was done with the aid of a Leitz objective 7, ocular 4, a 

 Zeiss camera being used, with the paper at table level and plates re- 

 duced as indicated. A -^ Leitz immersion was also used for obser- 

 vation when necsseary. 



Nomenclature. 



As a matter of convenience and for the sake of uniformity, I have 

 followed the system used by Conklin (1897) ^vith but slight variation. 



A cleavage is obHque to the right when the upper daughter cell lies 

 to the right of an imaginary observer whose body corresponds in posi- 

 tion to the primary egg axis, his head being at the animal pole and 

 facing the cell considered; vice versa, a division oblique to the left is 

 one in which the upper cell lies to the observer's left. In the first 

 instance the cleavage is dexiotropic, in the second loeotropic (Lillie, 1895). 



The term "quartet" is used to designate a generation of cells or 

 their derivatives given off from the four cells meeting in the center of 

 the vegetative pole, regardless of their fate. The different quartets 

 are designated by coefficients placed before the letter indicating in 

 wliich of the four quadrants the cells lie, while the cell generations are 

 marked by exponents which follow the letter. The upper cell resulting 

 from a cleavage is, in all cases, indicated by the smaller exponent; 

 thus, 2b" indicates the upper cell in B quadrant of the second quartet 

 arising from the division of 2b\ while 2b^^ is the lower. "When the 

 spindle lies in a horizontal direction or, in other words, when the cleav- 

 age plane is meridional, the cell which lies to the right is given the 

 smaller exponent, to the left the larger. The capital letters A, B, C, 

 and D are reserved for the four cells which meet at the center of the 




1904.] NATURAL SaENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



vegetative pole (''macromeres") and from which the " niicromeres " 

 arise; for these latter the small letters a, b, c and d are used. Child 

 (1900) and Treadwell (1901) have been followed in giving coefficients to 

 the macromeres also, to indicate their generation, this being desirable 

 when dealing with an egg in which, after the first few cleavages, the 

 "macromeres" are large in name only, "Thus A, B, C, and D form 

 the four-cell stage. At their next division from A arises lA and la; 

 from B, IB and lb, etc.; lA then divides into 2A and 2a, while la 

 divides into la^ and la^" (Treadwell). 



Earlier Work on Opisthobranch Development. 



A rather large number of older investigators have worked upon 

 Nudibranch larval development. Grant (1827) described the veligers 

 of ^olis and Doris. In 1837 Sars discovered that the young of Tri- 

 ionia, Doris and ^olis possess a nautiloid shell ; additional researches 

 by the same investigator appeared in 1840 and 1845. Loven (1839) 

 described a number of Nudibranch larvae together with those of other 

 mollusks. Alder and Hancock's magnificent monograph upon the 

 British Nudibranchs appeared in 1845 and contains a good general 

 accovmt of the results thus far obtained upon the subject of Nudi- 

 branch embryology. Reid in 1846 published an interesting paper upon 

 the breeding habits of Doris, Goniodoris, Polycera, Dendronotus, Doto, 

 etC;, together with the constitution of the larvae. An account of the 

 embryology of Tcrgipes by Nordman appeared in the same year. An 

 extremely thorough account of the development of the Tectibranch 

 Adceon by Vogt also appeared in 1846. In 1848 Koren and Danielssen 

 described the early stages of a number of Nudibranchs from the Nor- 

 wegian coast. Schneider (1858) described the veliger of Phyllorhoe. 

 Keferstein and Ehlers (1861) gave an accoimt of some of the develop- 

 mental stages of jEoUs. 



The later investigations of Langerhans (1873), Lankester (1875), 

 Trinchese (1880-1-7), Lacaze-Duthiers and Pruot (1887), Rho (1888), 

 Mazzarelh (1892-3-5), Heymons (1893), Viguier (1898), Carazzi (1900), 

 Cluiart (1901), and other works upon Opisthobranch embryologj', 

 together with those of importance pertaining to the remaining mol- 

 luscan groups, Annelids and Platodes, will be considered during the 

 course of this paper. 



A good general account of spaM'uing habits of Nudibranchs is found 

 in Alder and Hancock's "Monograph of the British Nudibranchiate 

 Mollusca" (1845). 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Maturation and Fertilization. 



It is not the purpose of this paper to discuss in detail the maturation 

 processes of the egg, but a few words in that connection may not be 

 amiss. Maturation appears to have begun at the time of laying, since 

 the first polar spindle is already formed in all eggs examined. In 

 fig. 1 the chromosomes have moved to opposite ends of the first matu- 

 ration spindle, and at a slightly later period, fig. 2, the sperm may be 

 seen making its way through the yolk globules toward the upper pole. 

 In a large number of sections examined the sperm is seen to have 

 entered at some point below the equator of the egg, though apparently 

 never directly at the center of the vegetative pole. The chromatin 

 of the sperm nucleus is but shghtly evident at this time, but astral 

 radiations are strongly marked in the surrounding cytoplasm. The 

 clear more protoplasmic substance of the egg becomes aggregated 

 principally around the first polar spindle and in the neighborhood of 

 the sperm nucleus, though long strands of finely granular protoplasm 

 extend through nearly the entire egg, forming the astral rays. The 

 yolk, which is in the form of rather small yolk globules, encroaches 

 closely upon these centers, but is not, as a rule, found within them. 

 As the first polar body arises, the upper surface of the egg becomes 

 distinctly indented immediately above the first polar spindle and from 

 this depression the first polar body emerges, bearing with it the distal 

 end of the first maturation spindle, which rises as a whole toward the 

 upper surface of the egg. During this process the sperm nucleus and 

 aster remain in relatively the same position as before. There appears 

 to be no telophase to this division, but without entering into a rest stage 

 the second polar body is given off. This arises from the same place as 

 the first, pushing the latter farther outward or somewhat toward the 

 side (PI. XXI, fig. 3), Both finally lie in the slight depression at the 

 surface of the egg. The female nuclear elements still left within the 

 egg then come to rest, at first lying closely against the cell wall below 

 the polar bodies. The first polar body does not divide again immedi- 

 ately and may never do so, though usually at a later period three are 

 found. If it remains undivided the first polar body exceeds the second 

 in size. 



With the close of maturation the sperm nucleus is seen to have moved 

 upward through the yolk; its chromatic elements have become more 

 evident several large nucleoU being present. The same is true of 

 the female pronucleus. They now approach each other, and come to lie 

 with their nuclear walls closely appressed (fig. 4), the egg nucleus U-ing 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



above and the sperm, which is the smaller, below. The clear granular 

 protoplasm of the egg together with the sphere material surroimds both 

 nuclei. The upper surface of the egg has resumed its former rounded 

 outline, pushing the polar bodies farther outward. Their connection 

 with the egg does not appear to be a very intimate one for they do not, 

 in most cases, maintain at a later period any fixed relation to the poles 

 of the egg and so are of little value in orientation, though they are 

 often found in the apical region. 



Unsegmented Egg. 



The unsegmented egg of Fiona averages in diameter 80 micra with 

 polar axis slightly less. The two polar bodies lie at the animal pole. 

 Though the ovum is rather densely yolk-ladened, the yolk globules are 

 of such small size that in future cleavages they tend to become more 

 equally distributed among the resulting blastomeres than is the case 

 with eggs containing yolk in larger spheres. The yolk which en- 

 croaches upon the more protoplasmic environs of the nucleus consists 

 of smaller globules, but otherwise its distribution throughout seems 

 quite equal. 



The universal distribution of yolk to all the cells of the segmenting 

 egg of Fiona is probably to be correlated with the smaller size of the 

 individual yolk globules. It is safe to infer that each yolk body in an 

 egg, whether it be small or large, is surroimded by a thin layer of 

 protoplasm. In eggs containing a relatively larger number of yolk 

 globules or, in other words, where they are small in size, a greater 

 amount of cytoplasm will be distributed throughout the egg, when 

 compared with that aggregated around the nucleus, than is the case 

 when the single aggregations of yolk are large. When this is the case 

 and division occurs the whole mass will be more influenced b}^ nuclear 

 and cytoplasmic divisional activit}^ than when the cytoplasmic con- 

 stituents are more definitely separated from the yolk. Just what this 

 activity is we do not know, but a comparative study of eggs showing 

 large macromeres with those like Fiona, in which cleavage is more 

 equal, will, I think, show that in the former case the individual yolk 

 masses are much larger than in the latter, thus allowing for greater 

 cytoplasmic influence where more finely divided yolk is found. The 

 more equal division of cells naturally results in a wider spread of yolk 

 through the developing organism, and it might also be added, as a corol- 

 lary to this, that the absorption of more finel}^ divided yolk is doubtless 

 much more readily accomplished than where large globules are fomid, 

 thus rendering it possible that such a wide distribution should occur in 

 cells not alimentarv'in function. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



r Before segmentation the nucleus lies but slightly above the center 

 of the egg, having moved doAvnward with its surrounding mass of 

 granular protoplasm. An extremely thin and easily ruptured vitelline 

 membrane surrounds the egg, and on account of the dehcacy of this 

 membrane no micropyle is present. Usuallj' one but often two or 

 three eggs lie together within a roomy egg capsule, containing also a 

 fluid substance which does not coagulate in reagents. In unstained 

 fixed material, and also doubtless in the living state, the eggs are quite 

 opaque from the yolk which they contain. 



First Cleavage. 



The first cleavage is initiated by nuclear rupture and increased evi- 

 dence of stellar radiation. With the formation and elongation of the 

 spindle the surrounding yolk spherules give place to the more proto- 

 plasmic constituents of the cell which form the immediate nuclear 

 environs. The spindle as it elongates moves somewhat farther down- 

 ward in the egg and lies but slightly above the equatorial plane. In 

 length it measures about half the diameter of the egg. From the first 

 constriction is almost equally marked all around the egg, though 

 slightly greater at the animal pole. After the chromosomes have 

 separated and are moving toward the opposite ends of the spindle, one 

 end appears somewhat higher than the other (fig. 5), a position which 

 would indicate a spiral trend of cleavage; but this is not evident in 

 the telophase and completed division, for in the two-cell stage the 

 nuclei lie directly opposite each other. 



As in the usual history of cleaving eggs, the resulting blastomeres 

 are at first much rounded, but as their nuclei form they become closely 

 pressed together, forming a flattened contact surface between which 

 no cleavage cavity exists (fig. 6). The nuclei, together with their 

 surrounding cytoplasm, again approach the upper surface of the egg 

 and lie at rest just beneath the surface on opposite sides of the polar 

 bodies. There is no evidence in their position to indicate a "virtual" 

 rotation before the next cleavage, as is the case in Crepidida (Conklin, 

 1897). The daughter nuclei of the first cleavage becomes much dilated, 

 containing several nucleoli suspended in the chromatin network and 

 surrounded by clear nuclear fluid. 



The two blastomeres thus formed are equal or so nearly equal in 

 size that they present to the observer no mark of distinction, and it 

 can only be conjectured which will form the anterior and which the 

 posterior region of the larva. Indeed, not until the appearance of 

 the mesentodermal cell at the close of the twenty-four-cell stage can 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



this distinction be dra,vm, for until that time all quadrants appear 

 identical, though doubtless cytoplasmic and nuclear differentiation is 

 present. As a result of this similarity of all the quadrants the figures, 

 until the appearance of the mesentoderm cell, have of necessity been 

 labelled arbitrarily. Of course, even in the two-cell stage lateral may 

 be distinguished from terminal areas, for by following succeeding 

 cleavages and marking the relation which the lower polar furrow bears 

 to the first cleavage plane and the later relation of both to the median 

 plane of the embryo, it can be determined that the first cleavage plane 

 is obliquely transverse to the median plane. But not until a later 

 period does posterior become distinguishable from anterior end. 



In the formation by first cleavage of two cells of equal size, Fiona 

 agrees with a large number of Mollusks and Annelids, among the former 

 of which may be mentioned Ischnochiton (Heath, 1899), Neritina 

 (Blochmann, 1881), Crepidula (Conkhn, 1897), Ercolania (Trinchese, 

 1880), Tethys (Viguier, 1898), Planorhis (Rabl, 1879, and Holmes, 

 1900), Limax (Kofoid, 1895, and Meissenheimer, 1896), and among the 

 latter Lepidonotus (Mead, 1897) and Podarke (Treadwell, 1901). 



Unequal cleavage appears to occur as commonly as equal among 

 Opisthobranchs, examples of which are Acera (Langerhans. 1873), 

 yl pZ^sia (Blochmann, 1883; Carazzi, 1900), Umbrella (Heymons, 1893) 

 afid Philine (Guiart, 1901). 



Second Cleavage. 



The second cleavage results in four cells of approximately equal 

 size. The spindles which precede it lie at right angles to the first 

 cleavage spindle, and nearly parallel to each other, the left end of each, 

 however, being slightly higher than the right, showing the Iseotrophic 

 character of the division. As cleavage proceeds this tendency becomes 

 more marked, the upper or left-hand cells (A and C) lying higher than 

 the right (B and D) . In consequence of this the second cleavage planes 

 do not meet in a line at the vegetative pole, but a portion of the original 

 first cleavage plane unites them in the ventral polar furrow ("Quer- 

 furche" or "Brechimgslinie"), the cells B and D being in contact below, 

 while A and C never meet at the lower pole. At the upper pole no fur- 

 row is present in Fiona, the four cells all joining in a common central 

 point. As is the rule among Annelids and Mollusks in which the 

 second cleavage is laeotropic, the ventral polar furrow taken in connec- 

 tion with the first cleavage plane, bends to the right when viewed from 

 the animal pole, and, vice versa, it turns to the left if considered as a 

 part of the second cleavage plane. Fiona is no exception to the above 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Ap: 



rule, and by observing the position of this furrow the first and second 

 cleavage planes may be kept distinctly in mind until outwardly visible 

 differential changes in the quadrants present other landmarks for orien- 

 tation. 



Origin of Germ Layers. 

 Segregation of the Ectoblast. 



By the next three divisions in which the four macromeres participate 

 the entire ectoblast arises. 



First Quartet. — The sjjindles which precede the appearance of the 

 first quartet of micromeres lie at first nearly radial, their prox- 

 imal ends being distinctly higher than the distal. As a rule, all 

 four spindles do not show the same stage of karyokinetic activity, 

 though irregularities of this nature are not as yet greatly marked 

 (fig. 9). As division proceeds they turn in a dexiotropic direction and 

 with associated cytoplasmic constrictions four small cells are given 

 off toward the animal pole (PI. XXII, figs. 10, 11). These, the first 

 quartet of micromeres, are in size about one-fourth that of their 

 parent macromeres. As they round out in shape they are pushed 

 farther toward the right, and finally come to he in the furrows to 

 the right of the large cells from which they arose. With the com- 

 pletion of cleavage the whole egg again takes on a decidedly rounded 

 contour, the micromeres changing materially in shape, becoming 

 more flattened on their outer surfaces and sharp-angled below to 

 fit the indentations between the macromeres (fig. 14). 



Second Quartet. — The second quartet arises laeotropically, thus regu- 

 larly alternating in direction of cleavage with the first. The derived 

 micromeres are but slightly smaller than the underlying cells from 

 which they arise and are pushed strongly toward the left as they are 

 given off. By this movement the four cells of the first quartet are 

 also carried somewhat to the left, though the rotation is not great. 

 All the second quartet cells are alike in size, there being no sign of 

 increase in D quadrant, as is the case with many Annelids and some 

 Mollusks; nor is there marked difference in their time of origin, though 

 in future cleavages of the egg irregularities in the time at which divi- 

 sions occur in similar cells of the four quadrants become more and 

 more marked. In cytoplasmic structure these cells appear to differ 

 httle from their parent macromeres, though probably they contain 

 less yolk. Their ultimate position is opposite and beneath the divi- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



sion walls of the first quartet, but they do not appear to become so 

 flattened as their predecessors (figs. 13, 14). 



The Trochohlasts. — Before the macromeres again divide the first 

 quartet is seen to be in process of cleavage. There result eight cells 

 of nearly equal size, the more peripheral being slightly smaller than 

 those at the apical pole. The spindles which precede division are 

 Iseotropically directed, and the lower cells are pushed downward and 

 outward between the second quartet cells and just above the macro- 

 meres (figs. 15, 16). These "primary trochoblasts" or "turret cells" 

 do not again divide until about sixty cells are present (PI. XXV, 

 figs. 33, 38), when they have become considerably flattened and he 

 between the arms of the forming ectoblastic cross. The fate of these 

 very characteristic cells will be discussed later. 



Third Quartet and First Division of Second Quartet. — The first 

 division of the second quartet and the third division of the macro- 

 meres occur simultaneously. Each second quartet cell forms two 

 of equal size by a distinctly dexiotropic cleavage, the spindles being 

 from the first inclined in that direction. As may be seen in figs. 17 

 and 18, these cells do not all divide at exactly the same time, and this 

 lack of regularity is also characteristic of the macromeres. By this 

 division of the second quartet the eight cells of the first are pushed back- 

 ward dexiotropically so that, in relation to the macromeres, they occupy 

 the same place as when given off. The division of the macromeres 

 results in the four cells of the third quartet. They arise in a dexiotropic 

 manner and are equal in size to the four cells left at the lower pole. 

 From this stage on these latter are "macromeres" in name only, being 

 equalled in size by the third quartet and but shghtly larger than the 

 eight derivatives of the second. Nor, indeed, do the macromeres 

 appear at this stage to contain much more yolk than the micromeres. 

 At a later period they are easily discernible from the micromeres by 

 their clear yellow appearance, but as the latter divide much more rap- 

 idly and by growth distribute the yolk which they contain over a 

 larger area, while much of it is doubtless absorbed, the preponderance 

 of this material in the individual cells of the endoderm and the larger 

 cells of the mesoderm as well is easily explained. As has been men- 

 tioned before, in the larva the amount of yolk in ectodermal struc- 

 tures is quite considerable, showdng its wide and universal distribu- 

 tion throughout the entire organism. 



The twenty-four-cell stage has thus been reached and as yet the egg 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



is radially symmetrical (PI. XXIII, fig. 19). At the center of the upper 

 pole lie four "apical" cells, while the " trochoblasts " or "turret cells" 

 extend from them into the angles between the second and third quartet 

 cells. The third quartet and first generation of second quartet lie 

 between them and the macromeres beneath, l^ut from the nature of the 

 cleavages do not form so marked a ring as in Crepidula or other 

 Mollusks with large macromeres. The ectoblast has been entirely 

 separated from the underlying macromeres, which contain all of the 

 entoblast and the greater portion of the mesoblast. A small portion 

 of the latter is to be derived, as will be shown later, from the third 

 quartet of ectoblast cells. The egg has become somewhat flattened 

 along its polar axis and within is a small cleavage cavity, which arose 

 during the last few divisions and which later becomes of considerable 

 size. Upon the lower surface the polar furrow remains distinct and 

 offers a convenient means of orientation. 



The fact that in Mollusks, Annelids and Platodes the entire ectoblast 

 is separated from the entoblast by the first three successive divisions 

 in which the macromeres participate is a point of similarity of the 

 highest importance in considering the question of the possible genetic 

 relationships of the groups. With scarcely an exception {Dreissensia, 

 Meissenheimer, 1901) this is accomplished by regularly alternating 

 spiral cleavages. In most cases the first three quartets of micromeres 

 are small protoplasmic cells and differ widely from the yolk-ladened 

 macromeres, and this is particularly true of the first series being corre- 

 lated with the later history of the cells which compose it, since in all 

 cases they form the apical pole and the sense organs of the larva. 

 Where much yolk is not present, or the spherules are small, more equal 

 cleavage results, so that the macromeres are reduced in size ; as exam- 

 ples may be cited many Pulmonates (Planorbis, Physa, Limncea, Limax) 

 and Lamellibranchs ( Unio, Cyclas, Dreissensia), Chiton and Ischnochiton 

 among the Amphineura, Trochus for the Prosobranchs and the Opistho- 

 branchs Tethys and Fiona. The same is true of many Annelids 

 (Podarke, Amphitrite, Clymenella, Arenicola, etc.). 



Both in size of cells and rate and direction of division the egg of 

 Tethys (Viguier, 1898) exactly parallels that of Fiona up through the 

 twenty-four-cell stage. The same may be said of Aplysia (Carazzi, 

 1900, and Georgeovitch as corrected by Carazzi, 1900), except for the 

 larger size of the macromeres, particularly the anterior ones, and Ca- 

 razzi's statement that the trochoblasts arise from di\nsion of the first 

 quartet — "con fusi distintamente dessiotropici." Such is, however, 

 not the case, as his figures show. Carazzi has evidently, in some 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



unaccountable way, become confused with regard to the direction of 

 cleavage of these cells, for in another place, after quoting Conklin's 

 statement regarding the trochoblasts of Crepidula, that these cells 

 "continue to rotate in a clockwise direction," he adds "E la sua fig. 16 

 mostra i fusi dessiotropic". As any one acquainted with cell-lineage 

 work can see by reference to the figure mentioned, the upper ends of 

 the spindles all lie to the left of the lower, and if there be any question 

 as to the ultimate Iseotropic direction of these cleavages a glance at 

 Conklin's fig. 17 removes all doubt. In Trochus (Robert, 1903), Crepi- 

 dula (Conklin, 1897) and Fiona the trochoblasts are given off by divi- 

 sion of the four cells of the first quartet before the second quartet cells 

 divide. In the case of Trochus the second cjuartet is just being formed 

 when the trochoblasts divide. ]\Ioreover, Trochus shows no rest stage 

 at twenty-four cells as do the other two, for while the third c^uartet is 

 forming and the second is dividing for the first time all eight cells of 

 the first quartet again divide, and these cleavages are followed by re- 

 newed division of second quartet cells. The mesoblast cell, 4d, does 

 not form in Trochus at this time but much later (sixty-four-cell stage), 

 while in Crepidula and Fiona it appears immediately after a short rest 

 period following the twenty-four-cell stage. The sequence of cleavages 

 of Planorhis (Holmes, 1900) up to the twenty-four-cell stage closely 

 follows Crepidula and Fiona. 



Segregation of Ento-Mesohlast. 



After a period of rest during which no cells are dividing and twenty- 

 four are present in the egg, cleavage occurs in one of the macromeres. 

 This macromere corresponds to that which has heretofore been arbi- 

 trarily designated 3D, and from this period onward the four quartets 

 may be definitely distinguished. The division is Iseotropic and the 

 larger daughter cell, 4d, will later gradually sink into the segmentation 

 cavity, forming a depression at the posterior end of the vegetative 

 surface in the angle formed by the macromeres 3C and 4D, and other- 

 wise bounded by 3d, 3c and the derivatives of 2d. 4d is thrown toward 

 the left and, therefore, in the direction of the median plane, though at 

 first it does not lie quite in that plane but slightly to the left of it or, 

 in terms of spiral cleavage, to its right (PI. XXIV, fig. 24). In con- 

 tradistinction to conditions found in heavily yolk-ladened eggs, this 

 cell takes on from the beginning the position of a middle germ layer 

 coming shortly to lie within the cleavage cavity, though, as will be seen 

 later, its derivatives do not all appear to be mesodermal in character. 

 After all three quartets and also the macromeres with the exception 

 22 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of 4D have divided, and when there are present about 44 cells (fig. 25), 

 4d or, as it hereafter will be designated more usually, the mesento- 

 blast, ME, di\ddcs dexiotropically into cells of equal size. Before their 

 next cleavage occurs the egg contains about seventy cells (fig. 42). By 

 this division, which is bilateral, one small cell arises anteriorly from 

 each of the large ones (figs. 42, 49). The small cells, E^ and E^ corre- 

 spond to the "Primary Enteroblasts " of Conklin, and will be so desig- 

 nated. Considerable variation may be observed in different eggs as to 

 the later position of these cells, as in some they appear to have moved 

 backward along the sides of the large cells, Me\ Me-, from which they 

 arose, but, as a rule, they remain in close relation to 4D, and always in 

 later stages may be seen associated with the derivatives of this cell, from 

 which it is hard to distinguish them (PI. XXIX, figs. 71 , 73). The large 

 cells soon divide again into almost equal parts, though the posterior 

 and dorsal pair (m^z\ m^z^) are slightly smaller (fig. 71). These latter 

 soon divide again, giving rise to two small cells, z^ and z-, which are 

 posterior to the larger (fig. 73). Just before this cleavage the two 

 cells M^e\ M^e^ divide, giving rise anteriorly and toward 4D to two 

 small cells, e^ and e^ (corresponding to the "Secondary Enteroblasts" 

 of Conklin), which lie close to the first pair of small cells, E^, E^, the 

 four forming a group of little cells with deeply staining nuclei in close 

 contact with 4D, 5C and 5B. Behind them lie the large cells M\ M-. 

 In the nomenclature used these would correspond to "Mesoblastic 

 Teloblasts," but before they begin to function directly as such each 

 again divides, giving off a small cell laterally, and these two cells appear 

 to be dorsally directed toward the cleavage cavity above and to the 

 sides of the enteron, but may remain associated with E\ E-, e^ and e-. 

 However this may be, the mesoblastic teloblasts soon begin to divide, 

 •giving off an irregular row of cells which extend around the gastrula 

 laterally. The cells m^ and m^ also behave in a similar manner, their 

 derivatives being closely associated with those of the large teloblasts. 

 In figures 80, 81 and 82 only the derivatives of the latter are shown, 

 the other lying dorsal to them. As the teloblasts and the cells m^ 

 and m^ di\dde they diverge laterally and leave behind and between 

 them the smaller cells E^, E^, e^, e^, closely associated with the posterior 

 elements of the enteron. When these cells are first given off they 

 lie decidedly above the level of the enteric invagination projecting 

 upward into the cleavage cavity, and while in this position might well 

 be characterized as mesodermal elements ; but later they change their 

 position, slipping in between the teloblasts and the posterior cells of the 

 enteron, and by the time the teloblasts begin to separate and wander 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHL'^. 339 



toward the sides of the gastrula these small cells, which have been 

 derived from 4d, lie nearer the ventral surface than the cells which 

 form the bottom of the invaginating enteron and closely appressed 

 against the posterior boundary of this region. The small cells z\ z^, 

 which are the posterior derivatives of the division of m^z^, m^z^, also 

 continue to lie near the median line in the posterior region of the 

 gastrula, closely pressed and flattened against the ectoderm. 



The later history of the enteroblasts, which I believe are concerned 

 in the formation of the intestine, will be discussed in connection w^th 

 the development of the enteron. 



In comparing the mesoblast formation of Fiona with that of other 

 forms, Crepidula will be considered first, since in this Prosobranch 

 4d was first found to contain both entoblastic and mesoblastic material 

 (Conklin, 1897). Here 4d arises when twenty-four cells are present 

 and by a Isotropic division. This cell soon cleaves dexiotropically 

 into two of equal size. At the next cleavage there result in Crepidida 

 four cells of similar size, the posterior and lower pair being the first 

 enteroblasts, while in Fiona it is the anterior smaller cells which are 

 entoblastic. At the next cleavage in Crepidula the large cells Me^, Me^, 

 which still contain both mesoblast and entoblast, give off smaller 

 purely mesoblastic cells anteriorly (m^, m'), while in Fiona the larger 

 posterior cells give rise posteriorly to similar cells, though they may 

 not be purely mesoblastic. The next cleavage of M^e\ M^e^ in Cre- 

 pidula completely segregates mesoblast and entoblast, the cells of 

 the latter lying posterior to the mesodermal elements. This division 

 separates two more small enteroblasts in Fiona, which here lie with 

 the first enteroblasts anterior to the large cells, IVP, jVP; each gives 

 rise to another small cell anteriorly in Fiona which may be entero- 

 blastic, otherwise from this period on they function as teloblasts of 

 the mesoderm. 



From the above comparison it is evident that if we consider the 

 position of the mesodermal and endodermal constituents of 4d in 

 connection with the segmented egg as a whole, directly opposite 

 conditions are found. In Crepidula the derivatives of this cell form 

 mesoderm anteriorly and laterally, entoderm posteriorly, while in 

 Fiona the reverse is the case. But in both forms, if we consider the 

 position of the enteroblasts not in relation to the egg as a whole, but 

 only in connection with the macromeres with which they are to be 

 associated, it will be seen that in both Crepidula and Fiona these cells 

 are directed toward the posterior region of the cells 4D, 4C, or their de- 

 rivatives, and that the reverse relations of the enteroblasts and meso- 




340 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



blasts in Crepidida and Fiona is the direct result of epibolic gastrulation 

 in the one case, embohc in the other, which is in turn caused by the 



quantity and nature of the yolk which the 

 macromeres contain. An intermediate 

 condition is found in Nereis (Wilson, 

 1898). Text-figure 1 (a) shows a sagittal 

 section through the cleaving egg of Crepi- 

 dula after one enteroblast has been sepa- 

 rated from the mesoblast. The ectoblast 

 has here but half covered the yolk, and 

 the entoblastic element is thrown down- 

 ward and backward in the direction in 

 which it must go if it follows the ecto- 

 derm over the yolk, and finally reaches a 

 position posterior to the blastopore as 

 that structiu-e is closing (Conklin's fig. 

 61). In Nereis, text-figure 1 (b), the ec- 

 toderm has advanced much farther over 

 the yolk when the enteroblasts arise, and 

 here we see that these elements are also 

 directed downward but at the same time 

 anteriorly. The next and last step in 

 their change of position is illustrated by 

 Fiona, text-figure 1 (c), in which, on ac- 

 count of its invaginate gastrula, the en- 

 teroblasts are not only anteriorly directed, 

 ]3ut also at first lie higher than the cells 

 from which they arose. 



In Trochus (Robert, 1903) the meso- 

 blast arises at about the sixty-four-cell 

 stage by a Iseotropic division which sepa- 

 rates the very large cell 4d from 4D. 

 This cell divides dexiotropically and 

 equally when eighty-nine cells are present. When there are one hun- 

 dred and eighteen cells, each of the two derivatives of 4d divides, and 

 of the resulting four cells the anterior pair are the smaller. Later 

 the two larger posterior cells divide. Robert has not found endo- 

 dermal elements to arise from 4d,'_but does not reject the possibility 

 of such a condition. 



As might be expected from their close relationship, a nearer corre- 

 spondence in the cleavage series is found when we compare Fiona with 



Fig. 1. — Sagittal sections 

 through the gastrute of 



(a) Crepidula (Conklin). 



(b) Nereis (Wilson) and 



(c) Fiona. The entero- 

 blasts are lined, the meso- 

 blastic cells stippled. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Umbrella, although Heymons' conclusion regarding the fate of the 

 descendants of 4d is at wide variance with the conditions which are 

 found in Fiona. After the cleavage of 4d into equal parts, Heymons 

 states that two small cells are given off from these, so that they lie in 

 the posterior region of the macromeres. It is very evident from his 

 figures that these cells, which would correspond to E^, E^ of Fiona, 

 at first lie quite dorsal to the enteron and in the cleavage cavity. The 

 large cells next divide nearly equally, the most posterior being slightly 

 smaller and corresponding in size and origin to m^z^, m-z^. These 

 latter shortly change their position in Umbrella exactly as in Fiona, 

 for, says Heymons, ''Bald beginnt eine interessante Lagerungsver- 

 schiebung einzutreten. Es rucken namlich die hinteren Zellen weiter 

 nach dem animalen Pol hin und legen sic vollkommen auf die vorderen 

 auf". While this rearrangement is occurring and after its completion 

 two and later other small cells are given off by the large underlying 

 cells toward the smaller cells originally budded forth. Exactly the 

 same process occurs in Fiona — compare Heymons' figs. 23 and 24 with 

 my fig. 71. Heymons' smaller cells M', M' (corresponding to m*z^, 

 m^z^ of Fiona), which have moved toward the animal pole of Umbrella, 

 do not appear from the account to divide again so quickly as 

 in Fiona, but that they later divide teloblastically is evident. 

 As has been mentioned before, the small anterior cells of Umbrella, 

 which correspond to E\ E^, e\ e^ of Fiona, at first lie entirely within 

 the segmentation cavity. Figures of later stages, however (Heymons' 

 fig. 29), show that they then lie at a level with the posterior cells of the 

 enteron (D, A', C, etc.), and are directly between these and the anal 

 cells. The same relative position is taken by the corresponding cells 

 of Fiona. 



In interpreting the results of Heymons the above point of view is 

 somewhat different from the comparison of Conklin between Umbrella 

 and Crepidula, in which he suggests a resemblance and possible simi- 

 larity of origin between the enteroblasts of Crepidula and the telo- 

 blastic cells M, M, M', M', of Umbrella. In both these "are large cells 

 containing a considerable quantity of yolk, about equal in size and 

 grouped in a characteristic way" ; but the same may be said of the 

 similar cells of Fiona, yet they have no part whatever in the formation 

 of the enteron, though from their appearance I was led to think such 

 might be the case before a knowledge of their later history proved 

 otherwise. The explanation of the whole matter lies in the axial 

 change which the derivatives of 4d have undergone in the forms con- 

 sidered. The posterior macromeres (particularly D) of Umbrella are 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



relatively small, the same result being here obtained as in Fiona, in 

 which the entoblastic elements are produced from the anterior rather 

 than from the posterior side of the teloblasts. If any of the descend- 

 ants of 4d of Umbrella described b}- Heymons are entoblastic in nature 

 they are those which arise in this way, and these are the cells which 

 must be compared with the enteroblasts of Crepidula and the small 

 anterior cells in Fiona. 



Viguier (1898) describes and figures the formation of the mesoderm 

 in Tethys fimhriata as similar to that of Umbrella, and a comparison of 

 figures will show almost exact correspondence. Like Heymons, 

 Viguier does not consider the derivatives of 4d to be other than meso- 

 dermal in fate. 



Carazzi (1900) derives both mesoderm and endoderm from the 

 cell 4d ("EM") of Aplysia. He states that the cleavage w^hich forms 

 this cell is dexiotropic in direction, and such appears to be the case 

 from his figures. The cell 3A of Aplysia is larger than the others, 

 thus throwing 3D so much to the right of the median line that a dexio- 

 tropic cleavage is necessary to place the mesentomere upon this line. 

 The divisions of 4d which follow are identical with those of Fiona, but 

 Carazzi's conclusions regarding the fate of the remaining blastomeres 

 are quite different. Four pairs of small cells are derived from the two 

 large cells and lie anterior to them. These correspond in position to 

 the four (or more?) enteroblasts of Fiona, but by Carazzi are described 

 as mesodermal. Two larger cells have been given off posteriorly and 

 correspond to m*z\ m^z^ of Fiona. From each of these a small cell 

 buds forth posteriorly, the two lying near the ectoderm. These small 

 cells are, according to Carazzi, enteroblasts, and go into the intestine. 

 Cells similar to these in origin and, for the time at least, in position are 

 found in Fiona (z\ z^) lying closely pressed against the ectoderm in 

 the posterior region of the gastrula. They are small in size, and at a 

 later time I have found it impossible to distinguish them from many 

 small mesodermal cells which crowd that region of the gastrula. If 

 they do not shift their position, they would naturally become involved 

 in the formation of the distal end of the intestine either directly, as 

 hning cells of that organ, or as muscle cells for its walls. One cannot 

 help feeling in comparing the development of the two forms and noting 

 the great similarity in the history of the early derivatives of 4d that 

 their fate is also the same ; and the same might also be said of the small 

 anterior elements which Carazzi indicates as mesodermal. 



Lillie (1895) concluded that in Unio the derivatives of 4d were 

 entirely mesoblastic. The two teloblasts give origin to two small cells 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



anteriorly which He near the enteron and are probably concerned in 

 the formation of splanchnic musculature. Similar conditions are found 

 to exist in Dreissensia, according to Meissenheimer (1901). 



Among the Pulmonates the work of Rabl (1879) is confirmed by 

 Holmes (1900), who finds that all the derivatives of the primary meso- 

 blast are mesoblastic in fate. More particularly he states that the 

 two bilaterally placed teloblasts give rise to a pair of small cells ante- 

 riorly, after which the large cells divide into equal moieties. Wier- 

 zejski (1897) says of Physa fortinalis, "Dass der Modus der Bildung 

 eines Theiles des Mesoderm bei Physa, desjenigen aus der Urmesoderm- 

 Zellen fast ganz derselbe ist wie ihn Heymons fiir Umbrella eingehenden 

 dargestellt". In the last stage described the mesoderm consists of 

 twelve cells, a group of six small cells anteriorly placed, behind which 

 are a pair of "Urmesoderm-Zellen " from which they arose, while behind 

 and above lie two other rather large mesoderm cells which have given 

 off a pair of small cells posteriorly. Both in sequence of origin, in 

 relative position and in size this group corresponds to the similar 

 series in Aplysia and Fiona; but Wierzejski ascribes a mesodermal 

 fate to the whole. 



In Limax Meissenheimer (1896) describes the cleavage of 4d to a 

 stage in which there are four cells, the anterior pair of which are the 

 smaller. In fate they serve as anlagen for mesodermal struc- 

 tures. Similar conclusions were also reached by Kofoid (1895) on 

 Limax. 



Heath (1899) has accurately traced the origin of the mesoblast in 

 Ischnochiton at the seventy-two-cell stage, and its later cleavage into 

 cells of equal size which lie bilaterally. At a more advanced stage 

 two more divisions were noted giving origin to small cells dorsally and 

 anteriorly. Heath was unable to determine whether these cells were 

 purely mesodermal or partly endodermal. 



Mead (1897) describes for the Annelid Arenicola two small cells 

 budded off from the bilaterally situated pair of mesodermal cells, and 

 by further division of the large teloblasts these cells are seen later Ijang 

 at the ends of the mesodermal bands and appear to be mesodermal in 

 fate. The same conclusions were reached regarding Clymenella, 

 though in this case the lineage has not been traced so far. In this 

 Annelid the divisions of M\ M- result in cells of nearly ecjual size, a 

 condition which may indicate a variation in later stages. 



In 1897 Wilson, having reinvestigated the history of the second 

 somatoblast of Nereis, discovered that the two small cells budded from 

 the teloblasts toward the enteron, to which in his earlier paper (1892) 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



a mesoblastic fate was assigned, are entoblastic in nature, and the same 

 he thinks probably to be true of Aricia and Spio. 



Child (1900) has found for Arenicola that 4d after its first cleavage 

 forms mesoblastic teloblasts, from which later arise two bilaterally- 

 placed mesoblastic bands ; all these cells are mesoblastic in fate, and it 

 is evident from his figures and discussion that he does not find here any 

 entoblastic material. Though in Sternapsis the lineage was not fol- 

 lowed so far as that of Arenicola, Child reaches the same conclusion, 

 and particularly in the latter case he states that the mesoblastic cell 

 is "purely protoplasmic and without yolk". 



In the Annelid Podarke (Treadwell, 1901) 4d arises, together with 

 the other members of the fourth quartet, at the sixty-four-cell stage 

 and is equal in size and appearance to them. It sinks inward with 

 the invagination which forms the enteron, divides and lies in close 

 connection with the endodermal cells. By this di\dsion from the 

 larger cells four small cells are given to the enteron, while the remaining 

 two are purely mesodermal. 



Torrcy (1902), in a preliminary on the cytogeny of Thalassema, 

 assigns to the two small cells arising from the teloblasts the fate of 

 enteroblasts, in a similar manner as in the Annelids above considered. 



Segmentation of the Entohlast. 



Shortly after the origin of the mesentoblast 4d, when the egg contains 

 forty-one blastomeres, all the "macromeres" except 4D are seen to be 

 dividing Iseotropically (fig. 24), with the result that three large cells, 

 4a, 4b, 4c, are given off from their respective macromeres. These 

 cells are slightly greater in size than those centrally grouped, but are 

 not so large as the cell 4d, and on this accoimt we find that of the four 

 cells, 4A, 4B, 4C and 4D, the last is the smallest, nor does it again 

 divide until over one hundred and fifty blastomeres are present. 

 The position of the fourth quartet may be seen in fig. 25 and 

 those following. When the egg contains over eighty blastomeres, 

 4 A, 4B and 4C again divide into equal moieties, the outer three of which 

 (5a, 5b, 5c) lie to the right of the central group. All these cells have 

 become much flattened and form a comparatively thin roof over the 

 segmentation cavity, into which as yet invagination has not begun. 

 The mesentoderm has sunken completely beneath the external layer 

 and extends forward as far as the center of the cavity (figs. 45, 57). 

 At a much later period, when there are nearly one hundred and fifty 

 cells present, 4a, 4b and 4c again divide (figs. 71, 72, 73), giving off 

 small cells to the left and outwardly (4a\, 4b\ 4c^). The invagination 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



to form the enteron has already begun by the depression of the smaller 

 cells which lie in the center of the vegetative pole, while the small cells, 

 E\ E^, e\ e^ at the anterior end of the teloblasts have become drawn 

 into the posterior region of the invagination (except for some varia- 

 tion, an instance of which is shown in fig. 72), where at this time they 

 help to close that portion of the gastral pit. As the primary enteric 

 cells sink into the cleavage cavity the small cells, E\ E\ e\ e\ come 

 into close connection with the posterior edges of 5C, 5D, 4a. Thus a 

 more or less complete cup-like invagination is brought about among 

 the entomeres, in which the smaller elements lie at the bottom with 

 the larger (4a2, 4b^ 4c2) between, and the small cells which have arisen 

 from these latter lying peripheral to them. Alwve, toward the ven- 

 tral surface, lie small cells of the second and third quartets around the 

 blastopore opening. 



In the formation of the enteric cells the manner in which the fourth 

 quartet arises appears to be characteristic of a number of Opistho- 

 branchs. This quartet is in Umbrella (Heymons, 1893), Aplijsia 

 (Blochmann, 1883; Carazzi, 1900) and Tethys (Viguier, 1898), as well 

 as in Fiona, larger than the macromeres remaining at the center of 

 the vegetative pole. 



The further development of the enteron will be discussed later. 



Cleavage History of the Ectomeres. 



As has been seen, the ectoblast arises immediately after the four- 

 cell stage by the three successively alternating cleavages in which the 

 macromeres participate, giving rise respectively to the First, Second 

 and Third Quartets of micromeres. The cleavage history of these 

 cells will now be taken up and their ultimate fate, as far as can be 

 determined, considered. 



The First Quartet. 



The formation of the ''turrets," la--ld-, and the ''apicals," la^-ldS 

 leading to the radially symmetrical twenty-four-cell stage, has already 

 been considered. Shortly afterward the apical cells divide in a dexio- 

 tropic direction, thus alternating with the preceding cleavage, and by 

 this division the four "basal" cells of the ectoblastic cross arise, while 

 between these and the central point of the egg lie the four small apical 

 cells from which they were derived (fig. 23). Before this cleavage had 

 occurred the upper and dextral cells of the second quartet had in each 

 quadrant given off a small cell in a Iseotropic direction (fig. 21), which 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



after the formation of the basals occupy positions just peripheral to 

 them and shghtly to the left. These four small second quartet ele- 

 ments are the "tip" cells of the cross, 2a"-2d", and together with the 

 basals and apicals form the ectoblastic cross. 



From the time of its formation and until a late period of cleavage 

 the cross of Fiona is a distinctly dexiotropic structure, the apicals of the 

 four arms lying to the right of their respective tips. The cross is thus 

 at the time of its formation (fig. 23) composed of twelve cells, of which 

 the apicals are the central, is radially symmetrical and its anterior and 

 posterior arms lie very near to, if not exactly in, the median plane of 

 the future embryo. In the future history of this structure the tip 

 cells will for convenience be described in connection with the rest of the 

 cross, since they are so closely connected with it. 



Before further cleavage occurs in the first quartet the second and 

 third quartets and the macromeres show marked karyokinetic activity, 

 the number of cells in the egg having increased to nearly sixty. The 

 basal cells and the turret cells or trochoblasts then divide simultaneously 

 (fig. 33), though considerable variation in time occurs in different eggs 

 and in different quadrants, it being, however, universally observed 

 that kP^ divides last of the basals. It may be noted in this connection 

 that in all species of Crepidula examined except C. achmca the division 

 in the basal cell of the posterior arm is delayed for a much longer period. 

 The direction of cleavage of the basals kP- and Ib^^ is Iseotropic and 

 so alternating with the last, those of the other two doubtful; W- 

 usually shows a laeeotropic to radial position of spindle, while in U-^- 

 variations are present all the way from Iseotropic to dexiotropic. After 

 examining a large number of eggs the occurrence of this irregularity 

 was more strongly confirmed, and it thus appears that in this cell, 

 Ic^-, there is a strong tendency, more marked in some case's than in 

 others, toward non-alternation with resulting bilaterality of cleavage 

 in relation to its opposite cell, la^'. In Crepidula, Planorhis and Ncri- 

 tina the cleavage of all these basal cells is non-alternating, while in 

 Umbrella it is regularly alternating. 



In Fiona it would appear that we have an intermediate condition in 

 which, though regular alternation is found in the anterior and posterior 

 basal cells, the two lateral, particularly Ic^-, show a tendency toward 

 non-alternation under the influence of approaching bilaterality. It 

 is just at this time that the first distinctly bilateral cleavages occur in 

 two cells of the third quartet in the two posterior quadrants, 3d^ and 

 3c^ (figs. 31, 32), and this suggestion of bilateral divisions of the cross 

 may be correlated with them. How^ever, the influence toward bilater- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



ality must be very slight, as the radial symmetry of the upper pole is 

 not disturbed to any appreciable degree. 



By the divisions of the basal cells above described each arm of the 

 cross is composed of four cells — an outer tip cell (2a"-2d"), next to it 

 the "middle" cell (la^^'-kP-^), an inner ''basal" cell (la^^i.^^im)^ ^^^ich 

 is larger than its sister middle cell, and an apical (la"-ld"). 



S3nichronously with the cleavage of the basals occurs that of the 

 turrets, the cell of this series in each quadrant dividing into two of 

 nearly equal size, the outer being the smaller. All divisions are 

 dexiotropic and alternating with those by which these cells arose 

 (fig. 33). 



Comparing the cleavage of the turrets with conditions found in other 

 forms, it will be noted that considerable variation exists. While in 

 Fiona these cells divide when there are about sixty blastomeres in 

 the whole egg, in Umbrella (Heymons) approximately seventy are 

 present; like Fiona all four turrets divide at relatively the same time. 

 In Crepidula the anterior trochoblasts do not divide until there are 

 over one hundred cells in the egg, and Conklin states that he believes 

 the posterior ones never divide. The trochoblasts of Trochus (Robert) 

 arise very early, at the sixteen-cell stage, and have all divided when 

 there are thirty-two cells present. In Planorbis Holmes finds them in 

 division at about forty cells, and Limax (Kofoid) shows a similar con- 

 dition. In Unio (Lillie) there are about fifty cells, while in Ischno- 

 chiton (Heath) but thirty-two, when the "primary trochoblasts" of the 

 latter form divide. Thus Fiona appears to occupy an intermediate 

 position in relation to these and other molluscan forms in which the 

 time of cleavage of these cells has been determined. 



Division next occurs in the cross at a stage of about eighty-four 

 cells and results in the division of the apicals into eight small cells, 

 of which those lying centrally form the "apical rosettes" (la"^-ld"^), 

 while the outer series are the "peripheral rosettes" (la"^-ld"^) of 

 Conklin. Direction of cleavage is Iseotropic, and of the resulting ceDs the 

 outer are the larger (PI. XXVII, fig. 53). Shortly after the rosette series 

 are estabhshed the basal cells of all arms divide again, the posterior 

 one last. In the anterior quadrant the spindle and resulting cells, 

 Ib^-" and Ib^^^^ lie radially in the lateral arms, the division of Ic^'^ is 

 Inotropic, that of la^^^ dexiotropic, again showing bilateral influence, 

 while in Id^^^ the spindle is so strongly turned in Iseotropic direction 

 that the resulting cells lie transversely across the posterior arm (figs. 

 56, 62). While this last cleavage of the basals is being accomplished 

 a similar process is seen in the four inner trochoblasts (la-^-ld-^), result- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ing ill eight cells of equal size and occurring at relatively the same time 

 in all four quadrants. 



With the completion of the above-described divisions the large num- 

 ber of cells of similar size at the upper pole of the egg makes their exact 

 lineage difficult to follow, so that it is desirable to make here some com- 

 parisons with the structure and development of the cross and trocho- 

 blasts in other forms, and to bring together the results already obtained 

 before proceeding to more uncertain ground. In formation the cross 

 of Fiona arises in the same manner as in Umbrella and Planorbis, by 

 the completion of the tip cells before the basals ; and in this it differs 

 from Neritina and Crepidula, where the tip arises shortly after division 

 has occurred to form the four basal cells. In Trochus the tips are 

 relatively late in appearing, as the basals have completed their cleavage 

 before these cells arise. At the first cleavage of the basals another 

 striking similarity to Umbrella is found, for in this Opisthobranch the 

 cleavage is Iseotropic, while in Crepidula and Neritina it is dexiotropic, 

 thus breaking the law of alternating cleavages ; and likewise in Planorbis 

 with reversed type the division is Iseotropic and non-alternating with 

 the preceding. Trochus shows an extremely marked Iseotropic division 

 of these cells, so much so, in fact, that the resulting cells he almost 

 transversel}^ In Fiona the anterior and posterior basals are distinctly 

 Iseotropic in origin and so regularly alternating, while considerable varia- 

 tion is found in the lateral arms, a radial type often occurring with Ic^-, 

 sometimes showing a decided dexiotropic direction of spindle. It 

 would appear from this variation in the lateral arms that Fiona shows 

 tendencies toward bilaterality in the first quartet at this time, and such 

 a condition would be in harmony with the l)ilateral cleavages of the 

 third quartet cells, 3c^ and 3d', occurring just previously. However, 

 the radial symmetry of the cross as a whole appears not to be dis- 

 turbed appreciably, so that though these variations may show either a 

 tendency toward bilaterahty or toward entire reversal in all quadrants, 

 as is found in Neritina, Crepidida and Planorbis, this influence has not 

 as yet become sufficiently marked to affect the radial symmetry of 

 the upper pole of the egg to any appreciable degree. In discussing the 

 lack of alternation of these cleavages in Crepidula as opposed to alter- 

 nation in Umbrella, Conklin suggests "upon this difference the future 

 recognizabiUty of the cross in the last-named cases {Crepidula and 

 Neritina) depends". In Umbrella the Iseotropic division of the basals 

 is much more marked than in Fiona, but even in the latter case Conk- 

 lin's prediction is in part, at least, fulfilled, as the cross of Fiona, after 

 a slightly older stage than thus far described, becomes so irregular that 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



its component cells are neither among themselves distinguishable nor 

 may they be definitely separated from the surrounding blastomeres. 

 Of course, this is largely due to the multiplication of the trochoblasts 

 and the similarity in size of most of the cells upon the upper surface of 

 the egg, yet the Iseotropic twist given to the basal elements at their 

 initial cleavage is largely responsible for that irregularity of contour 

 which so early marks the outlines of the cross. The peripheral ends 

 of the arms of the cross of Fiona become strongly twisted to the left, 

 and as the structure becomes older the ends tend to bend around in 

 that direction to a marked degree, greatly confusing their component 

 cells with those arising by multiplication of the trochoblasts. Up to 

 the stage shown in fig. 53 the cross has, with the exception of a slight 

 tendency toward variation in the first division of the basals, been 

 radially symmetrical, but at the next cleavage of the basals the cell 

 of this series in the posterior arm divides so that its daughter cells 

 lie transverse to the longitudinal axis of this arm. In the anterior 

 quadrant this division produces cells which lie radially, while in C 

 quadrant the cleavage is Iseotropic, in A dexiotropic. 



The first indication of transverse splitting of the arms is thus seen 

 to occur in the basal cell of the posterior quadrant. In Crepidula the 

 reverse is the case, the anterior and lateral arms alone increasing in 

 width, while the posterior later elongates by radial cleavages. In Fiona 

 all the arms become longitudinally split at a later period. The inner 

 and outer rosettes have not A'et arisen in Crepidula when the splitting 

 begins in the cells, la-b-c^-^, while in Fiona they are present and the 

 egg contains many more cells, the basal cells of the anterior and lateral 

 arms having again divided in such a manner that these arms are length- 

 ened before increase in breadth occurs. The same is true of Planorbis. 

 The early splitting of the arms of the cross in Crepidula is probably in 

 part due, as Holmes suggests, to the fact that, through pressure, they 

 have become much wider and tend to divide in a direction opposite to 

 this elongation. It might also be suggested that the extreme breadth 

 of the cross of Crepidula and the early transverse division of its anterior 

 and lateral arms may be correlated with the presence of a large amount 

 of yolk which must be covered b}' the ectoblast, while in the posterior 

 region the extensive multiplication of the elements of the second quar- 

 tet obviates the necessary broadening of the arm which reaches in that 

 direction. 



The transverse cleavage of the anterior and lateral arms of the cross 

 of Fiona occurs shortly after the initiation of a similar process in the 

 posterior arm, but it has been found impossible to trace the lineage 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of all the cells accurately though, after lateral extension has occurred, 

 the structure may be demarkated from the trochoblasts and underlying 

 second quartet cells. In fig. 75 its structure and probably cell deri- 

 vation may be seen. Holmes finds for Planorbis that the tip cells 

 divide in a transverse direction first, while in Crepidula the middle 

 cells are the first to cleave. The tips appear to divide last in Fiona. 

 In the posterior arms after the first transverse division most of the cells 

 divide obliquely across the arms, and in this way the arm becomes longer 

 than the other three. While the cross is increasing in lateral extension 

 the outer turret cells of all quadrants divide, so that the four groups 

 each consist of four cells of equal size (fig. 75) lying in the angles 

 formed by the arms of the cross. 



The apical pole of the egg at this period shows' a sHght depression 

 in the region of the rosette series. It is but transient and disappears 

 with the elongation of the gastrula. A similar depression has been 

 observed in Neritina, Crepidula and Trochus. Whether the structure 

 is normal in Fiona is yet doubtful. Robert insists that such is the case 

 with Trochus. 



The entire formation of the cross of Trochus is peculiar. The basals 

 have arisen and divided before the tips appear, and this division of 

 the basals is so directly laeotropic as to be practically transverse. At 

 the next cleavage these two cells form an oblong group of four in each 

 arm. The tips which lie peripherally to these groups next divide, 

 the cleavages of 2a" and 2c" being bilateral, the first of this nature to 

 occur in the egg. 



From the cases cited above of the manner of formation of the 

 ectoblastic cross of Mollusks, it will be seen that this characteristic 

 structure shows great diversity of details throughout the group, 

 though fundamental similarity is evident. Some of the probable 

 causes of such variation are (1) varying amounts of yolk, leading 

 to early lateral extension of the arms in those forms possessing 

 yolk-ladened entomeres, and (2) differences in the manner and rate 

 of development of the trochoblasts, correlated with the later structure 

 and functional importance of the locomotor organ to which they 

 largely give rise. The radial arrangement of blastomeres around the 

 apical pole of the cleaving egg is primarily the result of successively 

 alternating spiral cleavages, and a similar arrangement may be expected 

 in eggs which exhibit this mode of division. A definitely marked cross 

 does not always arise from such an arrangement of blastomeres, as, 

 for example, in Polyclad cleavage, so that this but suffices as a partial 

 explanation. Regarding the form of the crosses of Mollusks and 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Annelids Conklin says: "The cross and rosette series are the direct 

 result of the position, size and shape of their constituent cells". The 

 original position of cells resulting from regularly alternating spiral 

 cleavages is a function of that mode of division. The shape of cells 

 depends largely upon the relations which they bear to one another. 

 Their size is not so easily explained, and upon this factor depends, to a 

 large extent, the varying forms of crosses met with in different in- 

 stances. If it be supposed that the original arrangement of the upper 

 pole cells of Mollusk and Annelid eggs was radial in form, the modifi- 

 cations which have arisen in the two groups may, in part at least, be 

 referred directly to the size of the cells comprising that area. The 

 importance and early development of the trochoblasts of Annelids 

 has resulted in encroachment upon that area which in the segmenting 

 eggs of these forms corresponds to the cross region of Mollusks. As a 

 result the ''intermediate" series of Annelids, corresponding to the 

 moUuscan cross cells, lack the prominence characteristic of the same 

 cells in the latter group. ^Moreover, it is interesting to note that such 

 a Mollusk as Ischnochiton, which in the development of its trocho- 

 blasts and prototroch shows a condition intermediate between Mol- 

 lusks and Annelids, also exhibits a cross which is intermediate in 

 character. Though the trochoblasts have been taken here as an ex- 

 ample of the influence which variation in size or rate of division may 

 have upon the primitive arrangement of blastomeres in the spirally 

 cleaving egg, it is doubtless true that other cells may in like manner 

 undergo modifications which will result in similar rearrangements. 



Thus it may be concluded that the group of cells constituting the 

 cross owes its radial arrangement primarily to the form of cleavages 

 by which it arose, but that the cross as a definitely marked structure 

 is the result of variations in the size, shape and rate of division of the 

 cells comprising or suiTOunding it, these variations leading, on the one 

 hand, to the formation of the moUuscan cross:' on the other, to the 

 annelid an. 



Second Quartet. 



Wliile the egg is yet radially symmetrical and its blastomeres num- 

 ber twenty-four, the original second quartet cell of each quadrant has 

 divided in a dexiotropic direction into cells of equal size. After the 

 mesentoblast has arisen, but before the basal cells of the cross are 

 formed, all of the second quartet cells divide in a Inotropic direction, 

 the upper four giving off the four tip cells (2a"-2d") toward the upper 

 Dole, while the lower four give origin to small cells resembling the 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



tips in size, which are directed toward the vegetative pole (PI. XXIII, 

 figs. 21, 22, 23, PI. XXIV, fig. 24). 



The second quartet at this time consists of four similar groups of 

 cells, each group consisting of two large cells, 2a^^-2d^^ and 2a^^-2d2', 

 lying together, with the smaller cells above and below. The two large 

 cells in all four quadrants, 2a*2-2d^^ 2ar^-2cV\ next divide almost 

 simultaneously. The direction of cleavage of the right upper cells 

 (2a^2_2di2) is dexiotropic, and of the resulting cells the upper (2a^-^- 

 2d*2') are slightly larger than the lower (2a}'^'^-2cV^^) , the divisions being 

 identical in all four quadrants. Synchronously with these divisions 

 cleavage spindles appear in the other large cells of the second quartet 

 {2a?^-2(P^). Of the resulting cells the lower are much the smaller. 

 In direction the cleavages are probably all Iseotropic and therefore 

 non-alternating, though in C and D quadrants the spindles are almost 

 meridional in position, and the cleavages horizontal. Figures 28, 29, 

 30, 31 and 32 show these divisions in the different quadrants. 



The lack of alternation found in the above instance may be explained 

 as the direct result of the relative sizes of the foregoing derivatives of 

 the second quartet and the positions in which they lie. By an exami- 

 nation of fig. 30 it will be seen that should the two large cells, 2c^2 and 

 2c^\ have divided in the same direction a diagonal row of cells would 

 have been the result, with great pressure against one another and upon 

 the cells in the first and third quartets at the ends of the row. Lack 

 of alternation in direction of cleavage in one of the cells would relieve 

 this pressure, and this is the actual condition found. Such an expla- 

 nation appears to fit this individual case of non-alternation, but no 

 generalization may be made, as in many other instances the cleavage 

 of blastomeres appears to follow no rules of mutual pressure and can 

 be explained on no grounds so simple. 



Division again occurs in this quartet at a stage of alDOut eighty cells 

 and great variation in time is marked in their occurrence. 



The following table shows the average sequence observed in the 

 different quadrants, though any one egg may show marked variation 

 from the tabulated result: 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



353 



The table should be read : In A quadrant 2a^^^ cleaves first, 2a2" second, 

 2a"^ third and 2a^^^ fourth. In B quadrant, etc. Cleavages in A 

 quadrant are found in figs. 50, 58 and 63; in B, figs. 52 and 59; in C, 

 figs. 44, 48, 54, 60 and 65; in D, figs. 47, 51 and 61. 



The divisions of 2a^^^-2d^^^ are Iseotropic in all quadrants, of 2a^"-2d^" 

 universally dexiotropic, of 2a^^^-2d^^ everywhere dexiotropic, while 

 variation is found in the direction of cleavage in the cells 2a^^^-2d"2. 

 Of these latter a decidedly Iseotropic direction is found in B quadrant, 

 horizontal to dexiotropic in D, horizontal to Iseotropic in A and ap- 

 proximately horizontal in C. With regard to the size of the derivative 

 cells, it may be said in a general way that variation is evident. More 

 particularly considered the following conditions are found to prevail. 

 The divisions of 2a^^^, 2c^^, 2d^^ result in cells of equal size, while in 

 the case of 2b^^ the upper cell 2b^^" is much smaller than 2b^^^ ; 2a^", 

 2b^", 2d^" form upper small and lower larger parts, while 2c^" divides 

 equally; 2)0^^, 2c^^^, and 2d^^^ show similar divisions into upper small 

 and lower large cells, while 2a^^^ remains so long undivided that its 

 derivatives are uncertain ; 2a^^^-2d^^^ divide equally. 



As a result of the foregoing cleavages the second quartet contains 

 in all approximately forty cells. The irregularities which have char- 

 acterized the preceding divisions are increased in number as cleavage 

 continues, though until a much later period all four quadrants show 

 relatively the same number of cells for this quartet. If figs. 67-70, 

 representing the different sides of the same egg, be examined it will 

 be seen that in A quadrant 2a^^^ has divided dexiotropically, while 

 2a^"^ has divided horizontally; quadrant B shows no further multi- 

 pHcation of elements ; in C quadrant, 2c^^^^ is in process of division, while 

 2c^"^ and 2c^"^ have both given off small cells toward the upper pole; 

 D quadrant remains as before. 

 23 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



At a stage in which there are six ceDs of the second quartet in each 

 quadrant in Crepidula these groups very closely resemble the similar 

 ones of Fiona. When there are four cells in each group in Crepidula 

 the larger middle pair divide and, as in Fiona, one of them shows lack of 

 alternation; but in Crepidula the direction of the cleavage is slightly 

 laeotropic in the right cell and dexiotropic in the left, while just the 

 opposite is true of Fiona. Planorbis shows a group of second quartet 

 cells in each quadrant, which may be said in this sinistral form to be 

 almost the mirrored image of the same cells of Fiona, though the tips 

 and the corresponding cells at the lower pole are somewhat larger in 

 Planorbis, which probably accounts for their earlier division in that 

 form. The large second quartet cells of Trochus, as in Fiona, show 

 lack of alternation in the left cells of the series (2a-^-2d^^), while the 

 right (2a^-2d^^) show regular alternation. The early cleavages in the 

 second quartet of Tethys (Viguier, 1898) closely parallel those of 

 the same series in Fiona. Viguier has mistaken the lower elements of 

 this quartet, 2a^^-2d^^, for members of the fourth, as Robert has pointed 

 out. Further note of the errors in this paper will not be taken here, 

 since they have been so thoroughly discussed by Robert. Heymons 

 (1893) for Umbrella shows the second quartet series up to a stage of 

 six cells in each quadrant, and here also similar conditions are found. 

 Carazzi (1900) figures the egg of Aplysia, where each quadrant contains 

 four second quartet cells, and here also is a marked similarity to the 

 other forms considered. The second quartet of Fiona maintains a 

 radial symmetry for a much longer period than Planorbis, this being 

 the result of similar cleavages in all four quadrants for a much later 

 period than in that Pulmonate. The same may be said of Umbrella 

 and Crepidula, and, as Holmes suggests, this phenomenon is probably 

 correlated with the earlier development and larger size of the head 

 vesicle of Planorbis than of the corresponding structure of Crepidula, 

 Umbrella or Fiona. 



The Third Quartet. 



Of the three quartets the third is the first to show evidences of 

 bilateral divisions. When the egg has cleaved into twenty-four 

 blastomeres this quartet has but one cell in each quadrant, and these 

 cells do not divide until after the second cleavage of the second quartet. 

 They then all divide in a laeotropic direction, but the resulting cells 

 are not of the same size in the different quadrants. 3a and 3b produce 

 cells of equal size, while 3c and 3d give rise to small cells in the direction 

 of the vegetative pole with very large ones above, thus forming an 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



additional landmark for distinguishing anterior from posterior quad- 

 rants (PI. XXIV, fig. 25). The larger cells of the posterior quadrants, 

 3ci and Sd^ divide [next; the spindle in Sc^ being dexiotropic and 

 alternating, that of 3d^ laeotropic and non-alternating; and this lack 

 of alternation in one of the large cells of the third quartet, taken in 

 connection with the regular alternation of the similar cell on the oppo- 

 site side of the posterior region of the egg, establishes the first bilat- 

 eral cleavage (PI. XXV, figs. 31, 32, 34). Both upper and lower cells 

 of A and B quadrants are the next third quartet elements to divide, 

 the direction in all cases being dexiotropic or in some instances nearly 

 meridional (figs. 37, 40, 41). The lower cells, 3a' and 3b-, always divide 

 before the upper, 3a^ and 3b\ and in all cases cleavage is equal, a gi'oup 

 of four similar cells arising in each of the two anterior quadrants. 

 In the posterior cpadrants cleavage occurs next in 3di-, 3d", 3c^- and 

 3c". It will be remembered that when these cells were formed it was 

 through a laeotropic and non-alternating division of 3d^ and a dexio- 

 tropic and alternating division of 3c\, thus producing a bilateral cleav- 

 age of similar cells of opposite sides. Xow the cells 3c" and 30^- 

 again divide dexiotropically, thus showing lack of alternation, while 

 3d" and 3di- again exhibit distinct Inotropic cleavage and a second 

 failure to alternate. Thus arise in each posterior quadrant two very 

 smaU cells, 3c"2, 3c^22 ^nd 3d"-, Sd^--, lying below the large ones, 3c"% 

 'Sc'-\ 3d"^ and 3cV-' (PI. XXVI, figs. 43, 44, 45, 47). After these 

 cleavages about eighty blast omeres are present (figs. 67, etc.). When 

 this number has increased to shghtly over a hundred, Ssi^\ 3a22, 3b2^ 

 and 3b2^ each gives off a small cell toward the vegetative pole by cleav- 

 ages which appear horizontal (PI. XXVII, figs. 57, 59), and these divi- 

 sions are followed by equal and probably horizontal cleavages in the 

 posterior quadrants of the large cells, 3c"^ 3d"i and 3c^-» and 3di=^\ 

 the former pair always dividing before the latter (figs. 61, 66), so that 

 each posterior group contains seven cells, of which three are small 

 and he nearest the blastopore, being bounded externally by four large 

 cells, 3c"", "^-, 1'", '^'\ and 3d"", '''-, ^-'\ '-'^ respectively. 



The history of the third quartet of Fiona thus far given adds another 

 to the niunber of Mollusks in which it has been found that bilateral 

 cleavages first appear in the posterior quadrant, and more particularly 

 in the cells of the third quartet. 



The initial divisions of these cells in UmhreUa appear from Heymons' 

 description to be nearly radial, but his figures show that in the case of 

 3c and 3d cleavage is Iseotropic. The lower products of these cleavages 

 are all smaller than the upper, in which they parallel only the posterior 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



quadrant cells of Fiona. Moreover, these cells, 3c^ and 3d', divide 

 again before the anterior ones as in Fiona, and these cleavages are the 

 first bilateral divisions described. It would appear from Heymons' 

 figures that the two cells next the median plain lie higher than the 

 outer, and this is the condition found in Fiona. If such be the case, 

 these two forms stand in contradistinction to Crepidula, in which the 

 median pair are the lower. The cells 3c", 3d" are the protoblasts 

 of Heymons' excretory cells, and it will be seen later that 3c" serves 

 a similar purpose in Fiona, It is interesting to note that Conklin says 

 of 3c" and 3d" that they are "large and clear" and "have the same 

 characteristics in Crepidula' \ though he does not know their fate. 

 Heymons describes divisions at a later stage in the anterior quadrants, 

 while in the posterior 3c" and 3c^^, 3d" and 3d'^ give rise by horizontal 

 divisions to small cells which lie next to 3c^ and 3d^ — these latter in 

 exact correspondence with Fiona. 



Of this quartet Holmes says of PZanor6ts; "The first cleavage forms 

 a transition from the spiral to the bilateral type, and subsequent 

 cleavages show a bilateral character in a more marked degree. 

 At nearly the same time the lower pair of cells in the two anterior 

 quadrants and the upper pair of cells in the posterior quadrants divide 

 in a nearly horizontal direction into equal moieties. Later the upper 

 pair of cells in the anterior quadrants divide in the same direction as 

 the lower pair. The lower pair of cells in the two posterior quad- 

 rants remain undivided until a much later stage". These divisions 

 closely follow those of Fiona, and the same may be said of subse- 

 quent ones. 



In Aplysia (Carazzi) the two third quartet cells of each anterior 

 quadrant divide into equal moieties, while in the posterior quadrants 

 small cells are given off toward the vegetative pole; the same is true 

 •of Fiona. At the next divisions of 3c' and 3d' "si dividono con fusi 

 i;ransversali, cioe con divisione bilaterale," while 3a' and 3b' remain at 

 Test. Viguier (1898) for Tethys describes the initial division of all 

 the foiu- quartet cells as "suivant des plans sensiblement radiaux", 

 the resulting two cells in each quadrant being equal. Later cleavages 

 of this quartet in Fiona will be considered under the discussion of 

 o-astrulation and secondary mesoderm formation. Bilaterality appears 

 late in the cleavage of Trochus. The first divisions of this nature do 

 not occur imtil the ninety-seven-cell stage, and are concerned with the 

 cells 2c" and 2a". This is the first violation of Sachs-Hertwig's law 

 of alternatingly perpendicular cleavages. The cleavages of the third 

 quartet are very tardy in this Prosobranch, for when there are as many 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



as one hundred and fifty cells present this quartet consists of but four 

 cells in each quadrant. 



Gastrulation. 



With the beginning of gastrulation, marked differences appear in 

 the cleavages of the quadrants and the radial symmetry of the egg as 

 a whole gives place to a more and more distinct bilaterality. In 

 the posterior region, particularly among the cells of the second quartet, 

 great divisional activity and growth takes place; while the same series 

 in A, C and B quadrants show relatively slight increase when compared 

 with the derivatives of 2d. It has been impossible to follow the line- 

 age, except in particular instances, from the time these cleavages 

 begin, as most of the cells of the gastrula of Fiona are so similar in 

 size and appearance and the nvimber becomes so great that individual 

 identification is limited to special cases. However, by continued 

 observation of successively developing stages one becomes famihar 

 with the cell groups which will later give rise to various organs and, 

 aided by a few landmarks, may in most cases follow the organogeny 

 Avith approximate if not absolute certainty. 



.'^ji examination of figs. 69 and 70 will show that 2bi=i- and 2b2"2 

 have divided again, and shortly afterward cleavage occurs in a num- 

 ber of other cells, 2b2-, 2b-"\, etc. The upper cells of the tliird quartet 

 in the anterior quadrants lie at fii'st well toward the upper surface, 

 but as invagination proceeds these move around toward the lower side, 

 while an increasing number of second quartet elements are found sepa- 

 rating the first from the third quartet at the anterior as well as the 

 posterior end of the gastrula. Meanwhile the second quartet cells 

 in the median posterior region (derivatives of 2d) have multiplied very 

 rapidly, and by causing increase in the surface area of the gastrula in 

 this region have pushed the apical pole several degrees forward. Not 

 only have the posterior second quartet cells increased in numbers but 

 also in size, marking out at an early period the region from which the 

 shell gland vdW develop. The second quartet groups which he laterally 

 below the ends of the lateral arms of the cross also grow in extent and 

 nimibers, this being more particularly true of those which abut upon 

 the enlarging cells of the same series in D quadrant. 



The history of the third quartet has thus far been followed to a stage 

 when its members in each anterior quadrant number six, of which 

 four are large and two small cells, while in each posterior quadrant the 

 group comprises seven cells, three of which are small and four large. 

 By approximately horizontal cleavages of the upper cells in the two 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



anterior quadrants four cells of equal size are formed in each quadrant, 

 and as the blastopore continues to narrow these cells migrate as a 

 group m each of the two anterior cjuadrants, approaching the blasto- 

 pore and slipping over the cells 3b-^^ and 3b--^ 3a-'^ and 3a--\ which lie 

 between them and the smaller cells of the same series (PI. XXIX, 

 figs. 68, 69). During this period the third cpiartet blastomeres of the 

 posterior quadrants remain as before. 



The blastopore thus becomes entirely surrounded by the second and 

 third quartet elements, of which the third are much more numerous, 

 having the small cells 2a---2d-- or their derivatives wedged in between 

 them on the median and transverse line. The gastrula, taken as a 

 whole, is much flattened dorso-ventrally and is at first shorter in its 

 longitudinal than transverse axis. The blastopore assumes a slit-like 

 form, its longitudinal axis corresponding to the future longitudinal 

 axis of the embryo. 



The next important change to be ol^served is the origin of the 



Ecto-Mesoblast. 



As the cells 3a"\ "-, ''\ '" and 3b"\. "-, '-\ '-- continue to move 

 toward the blastopore, the cells which they are covering over 3a^", 

 3a"^ and 3b-", 3b^^^, sink downward into the segmentation cavity. 

 As this occurs they all four divide, giving rise externally and in the 

 direction of the blastopore to four small cells, 3a-"^, 3a^^^^ and 3b^^", 

 31^2212^ while the larger daughter cells continue to retreat beneath 

 the overgrowing ectoderm (fig. 74). These larger cells, 3a-"S 3a-2", 

 3b-"^ and 3b"", are the source from which the secondary mesoderm 

 is derived. They later divide, as may be seen in fig. 78, and begin at 

 once to form two bands of several cells each, which lie in the antero- 

 lateral region of the gastrula and later in the anterior head region of the 

 larva. 



Since the discovery by Lillie in 1895 of mesoderm which arose from 

 the ectoderm in the Lamellibranch Unio, various other cell-lineage 

 workers have arrived at similar conclusions concerning other forms. 

 As is well known, Lillie found that the larval musculature of the Gio- 

 chidium arose from a cell of the second quartet, 2a, which in cleavage 

 gives rise to a cell toward the segmentation cavity, the descendants of 

 which are mesodermal in fate. Conklin's results, published in 1897, 

 gave evidence that in the Gasteropod Crepidula ectodermal mesoderm 

 arose in three quadrants, in this case also from the second quartet (2a, 

 2b and 2c), but appearing much later then the ''larval mesoblast" of 

 Lillie, so late, in fact, that the exact cell origin could not be traced. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



359 



In 1897 Wierzejski showed that in the sinistral Pulmonate Physa sec- 

 ondary mesoblast arises from certain derivatives of the third quartet 

 (3c and 3b), and similar conclusions were reached in the same year for 

 Planorhis by Holmes, 3c and 3b here also giving rise to cells which sink 

 into the segmentation cavity. 



The formation of the secondary mesoderm in Fiona is strikingly 

 siinilar to its manner of origin in Planorhis, as described by Holmes. 

 The following diagram (text-figure 2), showing the cleavage history of 

 the ectomesomeres of the two forms, indicates how close a comparison 

 is possible. 



(©(S) 



03 00 



Fig. 2. — Diagrams showing the manner of formation of secondary mesoderm 

 in (at) Planorhis (Holmes) and (6) Physa (Wierzejski) and Fiona. The cells 

 3ontaining secondary mesoderm are stippled. 



It will be noted that four cells of each anterior quadrant are meso- 

 dermal in Planorhis, while in Fiona only two have this fate, the 

 smaller cells, 3a^^^, ^^^, and 3b^"", ^^^^, of Fiona remaining in the ecto- 

 derm. For Physa Wierzejski came to similar conclusions, but here 

 there is even closer correspondence, for the cells 3b^"^, ^^^^ and 3c^^", ^^^^ 

 of Physa remain in the ectoderm exactly as they do in Fiona. Accord- 

 ing to the nomenclature used by these two investigators secondary 

 mesoblast arises from quadrant B and C, while in the dextrally cleaving 

 egg of Fiona it comes from quadrant A and B. Holmes and Wierzejski 

 have attempted to use the same sequence of lettering for sinistral 

 forms as that commonly employed for the dextral, and have thus been 

 led into error, Holmes particularly arguing for a non-homology of 

 cells upon this score. When the dextral or clock-wise sequence is 

 employed for a sinistral form this difference in designation necessarily 

 results if the cell which is to give rise to the entomesoblast be labelled 

 D. The more natural and logical method is to label the cells of a 

 sinistral form in an anti-clock-wise sequence, as Crampton (1894) has 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



very -wdsely done for Physa. Robert (1903), in his excellent paper on 

 the development of Trochus, wliieh has just reached this laboratory, 

 calls attention to the above and confirms opinions which had already 

 been embodied in this paper. Animals which are sinistral, or reversed 

 in their larval and adult stages, develop from eggs which are hkewise 

 reversed in their cleavage, and the designation of the blastomeres of 

 the egg should coincide with the condition of the adult, if any homology 

 of cells exists. The eggs of sinistral Gastropods have probably at an 

 early stage in their ovarian development undergone complete cyto- 

 plasmic and nuclear inversion, for only by such a process can the 

 reversed condition of the larvse and adults be understood or the reversal 

 of direction of the cleavage spindles be explained, and if such an inver- 

 sion be postulated, corresponding reversal of sequence in nomencla- 

 ture must ensue. 



Meissenheimer (1901) describes in Dreissensia a cell lying in the 

 cleavage cavity just under the First Somatoblast derivatives, but 

 which, he says, does not come from this group, though he is sure it is 

 of ectodermal origin. It later divides and forms muscle fibers. Simi- 

 lar conditions appear to be present in Cyclas (Zeigler, 1885). In the 

 fresh-water Prosobranch Paludina teloblastic pole cells are not found. 

 Scattered mesenchyme cells occur, and Tonniges (1896) states that these 

 have been produced from cells which lie in front of the blastopore. 

 If this be the case, the formation of mesoderm in Paludina is similar 

 to that of the secondary mesoderm of other MoUusks. 



In Dinophilus (the cleavage of which is, from work now being done 

 in this laboratory by Dr. J. A. Nelson, typically annehdan in character) 

 SchimkeTsitsh (1895) appears to have recognized ecto-mesoblast, for 

 he says: " Gleichzeitig (with the proliferation of Urmesodermzellen) 

 aber findet auch eine Immigration der Ectodermzellen in der Vorder- 

 theil des Embryos statt, und es wird durch diese Zellen eine Mesem- 

 chymanlage gebildet". 



In the Annehd Aricia, Wilson (1897) discovered mesoderm arising 

 from the two posterior quadrants which could not be derived from the 

 pole cells, and which he located as coming from "either the second or 

 third quartet" {i.e., from c^ and d^ or from c^ and c^). These conclu- 

 sions were strengthened by a preliminary account of Treadwell (1897) 

 on the cell lineage of Podarke, in which he derives secondary mesoblast 

 from the tliird quartet (3a, 3c and 3d), and these results are confirmed 

 in a later and more elaborate paper (1901). The account of the meso- 

 derm formation given by Eisig (1898) for Capitella differs widely from 

 the results of most workers on annelidan and molluscan embryology. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



• 



Here the definitive mesoblast is said to arise from 3c and 3d, which 

 would be in correspondence with^Wilson's "ecto-mesoblast," while what 

 Eisig considers "larval" or "secondary"' mesoblast comes from that 

 portion of 4d which Wilson and Treadwell found in Nereis and Podarke 

 to form part of the wall of the enteron. These results have, it seems 

 justly, been called in question, though the careful investigation from 

 which they spring certainly gives credence to their accuracy. Tread- 

 well (1901) has called attention to certain figures (PI. XXXIX, fig. 42, 

 to PI. XL, fig. 49) of Hatschek on Eupomatus, which show "scattered 

 muscle cells in the upper hemisphere of the larva, which could hardly 

 have come from the feebly developed mesoderm bands at the posterior 

 end of the body", and suggests that they are of secondary origin; and 

 he likewise calls attention to the figures of Drasche (1884) for Pomato- 

 ceros which show similar conditions, though neither of these investiga- 

 tors appears to have realized their significance. In a preHminary paper 

 on the development of the mesoblast in Thalassema, Torrey (1902) 

 derives ecto-mesoblast from all three quartets. "In all there are 

 at least twenty primaiy cells of this character, but of them only ten, 

 arising from the first and third quartets, develop into functional mesen- 

 chyme, while at least ten degenerate and are finally absorbed by the 

 entoblasts." The greater part of the functional ecto-mesoblast comes 

 from three cells of the third quartet (3a, 3c and 3d) which correspond 

 closely to those which produce secondary mesoblast in Podarke. All 

 of the cells arising from the second quartet and which sink into the 

 segmentation cavity are rudimentary and in the end entirely degen- 

 erate, thus recalling AVilson's similar conclusions regarding the "rudi- 

 mentary" cells of the definitiA^e mesoblast of Aricia and Spio. At 

 least six derivatives of the seven ecto-mesoblast cells which Torrey 

 derives from the first quartet have a similar fate. 



The mesoderm of Platodes, Annelids and Mollusks has of late years 

 been subject to much studj^, and various theories have been propounded 

 regarding the significance of the manner of formation of the middle 

 germ layer of these groups. Without entering into a prolonged dis- 

 cussion with regard to this question, a few of the more general points 

 may be mentioned. The results above tabulated and my own observa- 

 tions lead to the conclusion — which is, of course, not here stated as new 

 — that the primitive mesoderm of these groups is represented by that 

 which arises from the ectoderm, and which is alone found in the Poly- 

 clad (Wilson). The suggestion of Wilson that upon this hypothesis 

 ecto-mesoblast might well be found arising from all three quartets of 

 ectomeres has just been verified by the work of Torrey, and shows that 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in this respect Thalessema presents an ancestral condition similar to 

 that of the Polyclad, though this does not necessarily imply close 

 genetic relationship. Moreover a descending series may be formed 

 both among Annelids and Mollusks of forms in which the presence of 

 ecto-mesoblast gradually merges into conditions in which it has totally 

 disappeared, showing that in these groups ectodermal formation of 

 mesoderm is on the decline. The increasing number of cases reported 

 in which ecto-mesoblast is larval in fate tend also to support this con- 

 clusion, nor do the results of Meyer, showing that much of this building 

 material is used for adult structures, offer a serious objection, since it 

 is a well-known fact that nature is not prodigal of the living substance 

 on which it works, and the secondary application of ancestrally obsolete 

 material is a fact of almost universal occurrence. Nor can I see that 

 the later origin of ecto-mesoblast necessarily indicates its late phylo- 

 genetic appearance, as some have argued, since the early origin of 

 ento-mesoblast, if associated with the future elongation of the animal, 

 might well be supposed to be directly explained l^y the precocious 

 segregation of this layer in those forms in which its development is 

 so intimately connected with future growth and development. The 

 early appearance and teloblastic growth of ento-mesoblast in the pos- 

 terior region of Annelids and Mollusks has directly led to decrease of 

 the radially appearing mesoblast. The Polyclad, which shows no 

 endo-mesoblast, has failed to develop such a formation, though a 

 tendenc}^ in that direction may be appearing, being marked by the 

 bilateral division of one of the endodermal derivatives (Wilson). 

 The fact that ecto-mesoblast as well as ento-mesoblast has been shown 

 among Annelids to arise from the same quadrant {Aricia, Podarke, 

 Thalassema) argues, it seems to me, conclusively for an entirely 

 separate mode of origin of the two. 



Closure of the Blastopore. 



With the segregation of the secondary mesoblast changes appear in 

 the form of the gastrula. Heretofore its shape has been broadly oval, 

 the antero-posterior axis being the shortest, but at this period two 

 regions of growth become manifest leading to marked change of form. 

 The multiplication and growth of cells of the second quartet in the pos- 

 terior region increase in activity, ever pushing forward the apical pole 

 area, while at the same time the region just anterior to the apical pole 

 is seen to be rising from the surrounding surface, forming a pointed 

 projection, the summit of which lies at the anterior end of the forward 

 arm of the cross (PI. XXX, figs. 78, 79). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Synchronously with these changes the blastopore continues to de- 

 crease in size, being narrowed by overgrowth of cells in that neighbor- 

 hood. It will be seen by the examination of fig. 78 that the large 

 cells of the third quartet in the anterior quadrants (3a"^, "^, ^-\ ^^^ and 

 3b"^, "-, ^-^, ^^^) are all encroacliing farther upon the smaller cells of 

 the same series, which have been crowded beneath them at the edge 

 of the blastopore. Posteriorly, derivatives of the third quartet have 

 completely surrounded the blastopore by the division and migration 

 backward of the small cells 3c^ and 3d-, while more laterally the re- 

 maining small cells of this quartet and their neighboring larger cells 

 are crowding aroimd the depression. The second quartet cells, 2a^^ 

 and 2c22, or their derivatives, yet lie in the lateral corners; but as 

 closure of the blastopore proceeds they are crowded from this position 

 by encroachment of the third quartet both from before and behind, 

 which finally (fig. 79) join each other on the sides. In the anterior 

 median plane, however, a cleft yet remains between the large third 

 quartet cells, and after the inner of these large cells have divided, as 

 shown in fig. 79, cells of the second quartet, represented by the deriva- 

 tives of 2b^^, still occupy the space between them and there bound the 

 blastopore. Throughout this process the greatest extension of the third 

 quartet is manifest in the area covered by the posterior third quartet 

 groups, and this is doubtless connected \vdth the disappearance from 

 the ectoderm in the anterior groups of the secondary mesoblast. The 

 blastopore closes from behind forward, to which process the larger 

 number of third quartet cells in the ectoderm of the posterior region 

 conduces. 



The posterior surface of the gastrula is now covered by large cells 

 of the third quartet, and in the median region by second quartet 

 elements. On the right posterior surface (left when seen from ventral 

 surface, fig. 79) may be seen one very large cell, Ex. (3c""), which will 

 later become the principal excretory cell of the larva. The region 

 anterior to the blastopore has been formed from the second quartet 

 cells of B quadrant which have been pushed backward by posterior 

 and apical growth, space being left for them through the shiftmg of 

 the large cells of the third quartet already described. The second 

 quartet cells of B quadrant have shown comparatively little division 

 or growth, and thus appear to occupy a relative!}^ smaller space than 

 previously. 



The blastopore of Crepidula (Conklin) is surrounded by second and 

 third quartet cells, all quadrants contributing. The same is true for 

 Ischnochiton (Heath). In Trochus (Robert) third quartet cells are 




364 PROCEKDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



mainly concerned in the closure of the blastopore, though the deri^'a- 

 tives of 2a^^-2d^^ also bound the narrowing opening. Planorbis 

 (Holmes) shows a very similar condition, -v^dth the exception that 2d-^ 

 is crowded out. In Fiona all second quartet cells but a few at' [the 

 anterior edge of the blastopore are excluded before the opening closes. 



Orgaxogexy. 

 The Velum. 



In its earlier stages the velum of Fiona is so ill-defined on the upper 

 surface of the developing larva that its study has proved most diffi- 

 cult, and though more time has been spent upon this region than any 

 other portion of the developing organism the results have not been 

 as satisfactory as could be wished. living material would have been 

 of great value, and the lack of it has been a source of much regret. 

 After the breaking up of the cross the whole external surface of the 

 gastrula, and particularly the anterior end, is characterized by cells of 

 small and nearly equal size, among which there appear scarcely any 

 cells whose size would give them prominence, or cell rows or distinctly 

 marked groups. 



In the last stage described under the discussion of the develop- 

 ment of the first quartet the area covered by this series of micromeres 

 represents nearly the whole upper surface of the flattened gastrula (fig. 

 75). The four arms of the cross are split transversely, while in the 

 angles between them lie the four groups of turret cells, each group 

 consisting of four cells of equal size. In axial relation the anterior and 

 posterior arms correspond to the direction of the median plane, while 

 the lateral are respectively right and left. The Avhole first quartet 

 area is completely surrounded and separated from the tliird by deriva- 

 tives of the second. By an increased growth of D quadrant of this 

 series the apical pole and its surrounding area is moved forward in 

 the direction of the blastopore, while at the same time growth of first 

 and second quartet elements in the neighljorhood of the tip of the ante- 

 rior arm of the cross causes that region to become raised, until some- 

 what later the pointed anterior end so characteristic of many Opistho- 

 branch larvas is produced (figs. 78, 79, 96). The visible cause of the 

 evagination of the ectoderm at this point may be found in the direc- 

 tions taken by spindles of the dividing cells which produce it, as in 

 most cases they are radially or diagonally directed toward the point 

 of greatest elevation. At this time the archenteron is roughly trian- 

 gular in outline, the anterior point of the triangle being marked by 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



the large cell 4b^, which remains for a long time in this position and is 

 closely pressed up into this anterior cone. It may thus be possible that 

 the pointed anterior end of the larva is caused by the shape of the 

 enteron, upon which the outer layer is moulded. 



At first the terminal point of elevation corresponds in position to 

 the tip of the anterior arm, and is thus formed by derivatives of 2b^'^ 

 and neighboring cells. At a somewhat later period the continued 

 growth of the shell gland area pushes the whole apical region forward, 

 so that eventually (figs. 95, 98, 100) this point is carried farther down- 

 ward on the anterior surface. At the same time continued growth 

 has increased the extent of the whole apical region, so that the anterior 

 end becomes more rounded than pointed, and finally (figs. 101, 102), 

 when the veliger stage is just being approached, a broad rounded con- 

 tour characterizes the anterior as well as the posterior end of the larva. 

 It is while these changes are taking place that the first evidence of a 

 distinct velar area appears. Early in this period of forward movement 

 the anterior trochoblasts may be seen to the right and left of the ante- 

 rior end of the forward arm, being distinguished from the derivatives 

 of the second quartet by their smaller size and compact arrangement. 

 They thus, with the tip cell and two other cells behind them (probably 

 Ib^^^S Ib^^^^ derived by transverse splitting of the middle cell), form 

 an irregular row across the anterior edge of the first quartet area 

 (fig. 76). Laterally the posterior ends of this semicircle are joined by 

 cells in the region of the tips of the lateral arms and thus meet the 

 posterior trochoblast groups. These latter have grown larger than 

 their corresponding cells in the anterior quadrants, and so are almost 

 indistinguishable from second quartet elements which lie beneath 

 them. On this account it soon becomes impossible to separate them 

 from these cells, and so at a later period, when the velum in this region 

 becomes marked, I am imable to state how much of it is derived from 

 the trochoblasts, though the httle evidence at hand indicates that they 

 form the largest portion of it. With change of axis the anterior end of 

 the velum is carried forward (PL XXXVII, figs. 95, 98), and the forward 

 end comes upon a level with the antero-ventral surface. A lateral view 

 (fig. 98) shows an irregular row of nuclei (cell outlines are usually in- 

 distinct) running downward and backward from the anterior median 

 point, and becoming lost as it continues posteriorly. This row, which 

 has arisen from the anterior trochoblasts, derivatives of the middle 

 and tip cells of the anterior arm and probably tip cell derivatives of 

 the lateral arms, will be designated V^ Below this band of cells 

 another irregular row may be distinguished composed entirely of second 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



quartet cells which have lain nearest the first quartet area, and this 

 row, the first appearance of which is indicated in figs. 97 and 98, will 

 be designated V^, since it corresponds in general to the same cells in 

 Crepidula which are designated by that term. Unfortunately the 

 cells in this region have for some time presented no distinguishing 

 marks, without which exact derivation is precluded by their number, 

 but from their positions these lower cells probably correspond to deriva- 

 tives of 2b^2*, *^^, 2" in the anterior group, and similar cells in the 

 lateral. At a later period (fig. 101) these rows tend to unite to form 

 an irregular line several cells in breadth, distinguishable only by their 

 nuclei. As the stomodaeal invagination progresses the velar rows 

 are drawn forward and downward in that direction, and by the growth 

 of the head vesicle they are also pushed downward laterally. It is 

 probable that elements of the second quartet which lie still lower than 

 those already mentioned become involved in the preoral velar area, 

 either functioning directly as ciliated velar cells or taking part in the 

 development of the underlying region of the expanding velar ridge. 

 At the period represented in fig. 103, two irregular rows of nuclei 

 may be observed in the anterior cephalic region above the stomodseum, 

 and these correspond in origin to the rows V^ and V- above mentioned . 

 The postoral velar area is but faintly demarkatecl in the preparations 

 studied and crosses the ventral region just behind the stomodaeum. 

 The cells comprising it are doubtless, in the median region, derived 

 from the third quartet, to which are added second quartet elements 

 more laterally where the postoral velum joins the preoral. 



A portion of the velum does not in Fiona curve sharply toward the 

 apical pole, as in the case of Crepidula, where an anterior branch is 

 formed, but the whole extends backward around the head vesicle, so 

 that this part corresponds in position to the posterior branch of Crepi- 

 dula. This difference will be evident if a comparison is made between 

 figs. 78 and 82 of Crepidula and fig. 108 of Fiona. In the latter in- 

 stance it will be seen that the apical pole lies far forward from the pos- 

 terior ends of the velar edge, while in Crepidula the anterior branch 

 curves inward toward the apex, while the posterior branch continues 

 backward around the whole head vesicle, as does the entire velum of 

 Fiona. 



In Crepidula Conklin (Supplementary Note, p. 204) finds that the 

 median anterior portion of the first velar row (V) probably arises 

 from the divided tip cells of the anterior arm, while laterally this row 

 is continued by the trochoblasts and cells at the ends of the lateral 

 arms. The second row in its mid-ventral region is probably "derived 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 367 



from the cell identified provisionally as 2b", which lies just beyond 

 the median cells of the first row", and he adds, "I have not been able 

 to determine whether any part of the second velar row arises by y\ih- 

 division of cells of the first; if not this row may include a few of the 

 third quartet (3a"^ and 3b"^, fig. 56) at the points opposite the anterior 

 turrets". It also seems probable (Supplementary Note, page 204) that 

 the cells 2b^"", 2b^-^'^ lie outside the first velar row. Fig. 79 shows 

 two large cells between the first and second velar rows, and they appear 

 to represent the major portion of these cells. Smaller derivatives 

 from them may join 2b^" in forming the median part of the second velar 

 row (V^). Conklin thus finds that the preoral velum arises from " a few 

 cells of the first quartet, many of the second and possibly a few of the 

 third". I do not believe that the third quartet becomes involved 

 in the preoral portion of the velum of Fiona, though doubtless cells 

 from this series are closely connected with it in the stomodseal region 

 and help in the formation of the postoral velum. It will be remembered 

 that in Crepidula secondary mesoblast is derived from the second 

 quartet, while in Fiona it is furnished by the anterior groups of the 

 third, and in this process the large cells of this series, wliich have hith- 

 erto lain well up on the sides of the gastrula, migrate over the under- 

 Ijdng mesoblastic elements and thus become far removed from the 

 region where the A-elum first appears. The formation of secondary 

 mesoderm in the most anterior second quartet group of Crepidula 

 has doubtless the same effect of lessening the external area of the 

 quartet in that region, while the neighboring third quartet cells would 

 lie relatively higher in this form than in Fiona. So when the second 

 velar row forms in Crepidula it will lie relatively lower in the second 

 quartet group (2b-^) and more probably involve third quartet cells, 

 as Conklin states it probably does. 



Regarding the lineage of the velum of Planorhis, Holmes says that 

 "the tip cell (of the anterior arm) divides as far as I can deter- 

 mine, but once, and the two daughter cells become pushed apart by 

 the cell Ib'^", which forms the median cell of the upper row. These 

 cells extend to the anterior trochoblasts on either side, but in later 

 stages they may sometimes be separated from them by cells which 

 wedge in from below". The anterior trochoblasts follow these cells 

 posteriorly, but Holmes states that the tip cells of the lateral arms "do 

 not form a part of the prototroch but enter into the formation of the 

 head vesicle". In this Planorhis differs from Fiona. Blochmann 

 states that the right and left tip cells enter the velum of Neritina. 

 The lower cells in the prototroch Holmes derives from the second 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



quartet, though he adds that at a later period cells are joined to the 

 prototroch from below, the lineage of which is obscure. 



In Ischnochiton, the larva of which is, in its velar aspects, remarkably 

 like the trochophore of Annelids, Heath finds that the prototroch is 

 composed of trochoblasts, of ''accessory trochoblasts" (derived from 

 the original basal cells of the molluscan or intermediate girdle cells 

 of the annelidan cross) of the tip cells in the anterior and lateral arms, 

 while in the posterior arm the tip cells go into the ventral plate, the 

 gap in the trochal ring being there bridged by derivatives of the median 

 cell of that arm of the cross. Thus in this annelid-like form of larva 

 none but derivatives of 2a", 2b" and 2c" from the second quartet 

 form the trochal ring. 



The prototroch of Trochus (Robert) is composed of twenty-five 

 cells, sixteen of which comprise the trochoblasts, six represent the 

 divided tip cells of A, B and C quadrants, while the other three are the 

 cells 2a, b, c^^"^ A very exact and close comparison may here be 

 made with the prototroch of the Annelids A^wphitrite , Arenicola and 

 Clymenella, particularly with the former, for, as Robert says, "Vingt- 

 deux ont indetiquement la meme origine et la meme disposition que 

 celles de Amphitrite; le trois autres (2a, b and c^"^) sont des derives 

 des cellules correspondantes de la meme Annelide.'" 



Among Annehds Wilson has found that the prototroch of Nereis 

 arises entirely from twelve of the sixteen primary trochoblasts, there 

 being no contribution from the second quartet. All sixteen of the 

 primary trochoblasts enter the prototroch of Amphitrite and Clymenella 

 (Mead), as is also the case with Arenicola (Child) and Podarke (Tread- 

 well). Regarding the close resemblance between the trochophore of 

 Ischnochiton and those of the Annehds, Heath says: "The origin, 

 development and fate of these cells (primary trochoblasts) is pre- 

 cisely similar to the primary trochoblasts in Ischnochiton. The second 

 quartet in Amphitrite, Clymenella and Arenicola furnishes three cells 

 in each quadrant except the posterior, which enter the prototroch. 

 Two of the three are homologues of the divided tip in Ischnochiton, 

 while the third corresponds to a post-trochal cell". 



If now we compare the derivation and ultimate structure of the 

 annelidan prototroch with the typical molluscan velum some inter- 

 esting causal relations appear. At the time of its functional activity 

 the prototroch of Annelids is apparently a radially symmetrical struc- 

 ture. Among the Mollusks we find, as a rule, a velum strongly devel- 

 oped anteriorly, with a considerable area of weakly ciliated ectoderm 

 between the ends of its posterior arms. There are numerous excep- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



tions to this typical molluscan velum, Ischnochiton and Trochus for 

 examples, in which the trochal ring is as complete as among the Anne- 

 lids. Returning now to the developmental history of the two groups 

 certain variations are found Avhich, when viewed in the light of func- 

 tional larval structure, appear as a natural result of the divergent 

 forms of the larvae, these variations having been precociously thrown 

 backward upon the cleaving cells of the ovum. In Aynphitrite, Areni- 

 cola and Clymenella among the Annelids, and Ischnochiton and Trochus 

 representing the more primitive Mollusks, all the primary trochoblasts 

 (la^", 2^2, ^^\ 222, etc.) in all c^uadrants go into the prototroch, while in 

 Nereis the same occurs with the exception of four, which ma}' for all 

 four quadrants be designated la"\; these are not functional in this 

 manner, but are pushed inward and form part of the cephalic vesicle. 

 In Crepidula only the anterior trochoblasts help form the preoral velum 

 (lar^, la^', Ib^^, Ib^'), and the same is true of Planorbis and possibly 

 also of Fiona. Accessory trochoblasts (la^^zi^ la^"2_ ^-j-^j form a part 

 of the prototroch of Ischnochiton in all quadrants, while in Podarke the 

 cells la^222^ lb^222^ 10^222^ corresponding to three of the above series, aid 

 in the formation of the prototroch (''secondary trochoblasts" of Tread- 

 well). In Planorbis Holmes finds that the cell lb^2ii jg |j^g "anterior 

 median" cell of the prototroch, but does not find similar conditions in 

 any other quadrants. None of these elements which are, of course, 

 derivatives of the annelidan outer intermediate or molluscan middle 

 cells (with the exception of 1]3'2" of Planorbis, which comes from the 

 inner basal) are found in the antero-lateral .portion of the prototroch 

 of Amphitrite, Arenicola, Clymenella and Nereis. In all the above 

 forms except Nereis elements from the second ciuartet are also added 

 to the prototroch, and these may be designated with Treadwell "ter- 

 tiary trochoblasts". In Amphitrite. Arenicola and Clymenella the 

 prototroch is increased in A, B and C quadrants by the cells 2a"', 

 2a"2^ 2a^2i^ p^c^ j^ Podarke 2a"2 and 2a'2i {^^ A quadrant, and similar 

 cells in B and C, function in like manner, while Ischnochiton shows the 

 same, for 2a"\ 2a"2^ etc., enter the prototroch from the anterior and 

 lateral quadrants ("secondary trochoblasts" of Heath). Of Hy- 

 droides Treadwell says: "Cells are added from the lower hemisphere". 

 For the prototroch of Trochus Robert derives the three cells from the 

 second quartet in A, B and C quadrants (2a"\ 2a"2, 2a^2in^ etc.). Com- 

 ing to those Mollusks which possess a typical veliger, more cells are 

 found to be contributed by the second quartet, particularly in the 

 anterior quadrants. In Crepidula the tip cells of the anterior and 

 lateral arms go into the first velar row, while below numerous cells arc 

 21 




370 PKOCEEDLXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



added, so that the second row contains " probably a few cells of the first, 

 many of the second and possibly a few of the third quartet". The 

 velum of Planorbis is rudimentary in structure but shows the same gen- 

 eral type of development as Crepidula, and here in like manner second 

 quartet cells are added. The tip cells of the lateral arms, according 

 to Holmes, do not enter the prototroch, but cells of the same series 

 below them function in this manner. In the anterior region l)oth tip 

 cells and those lying beneath them from the second c^uartet enter into 

 the prototroch. 



From this short comparison of the lineage of the trochal area in 

 Annelids and Mollusks, it will be seen that as in the functional larval 

 form the typical molluscan velum shows greater anterior development 

 than the prototroch of Annelids, so also cells taken from the segmented 

 egg to complete the velum in this region exceed in number those des- 

 tined to form a similar area of the anzielidan trochophore. To do this 

 the second quartet has become greatly encroached upon in furnishing 

 necessary building material for this structure in those Mollusks whose 

 larvae show strong anterior velar development, and in Crepidula the 

 third quartet also possibly becomes involved. It is natural to conclude, 

 as indeed the facts show, that those Mollusks which in the structure of 

 their larval prototrochs show great similarity to the homologous struc- 

 ture of the Annelid trochophore, will exhibit a similar lineage of the 

 -cells constituting the larval organs compared — examples, Ischnochiton 

 and Trochus. 



Later Velar Development. — With continued invagination of the 

 stomodseum and constriction of the foot, the velar area, which has 

 thus far been marked only by an irregular double row of cells 

 extending around the anterior half of the head vesicle and losing 

 itself in the posterior portion of that larval organ, becomes more 

 prominent and takes on the bilobed outline so characteristic of 

 the anterior end of veliger larvae. At first the velar lobes are 

 merely rounded swellings gradually rising from the upper sides 

 of the head vesicle and curving around, downward and inward 

 toward the stomodaeum (fig. 105). The cells in this region do not 

 as yet exhibit that differentiation which later marks the promi- 

 nent ciliated margin from the undei'lying region. But as the lobes 

 begin to constrict beneath and become more prominent (fig. 106), those 

 cells which lie on their most peripheral surface show marked increase 

 in size, and the ciliation which hitherto has been uniform and weakly 

 developed becomes more prominent in these cells. Thev may now 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF i'HILADELPHIA. 371 



be observed lying in a row on the rounded edge of the expanding 

 ridge, and though at first this series of cells is indistinctly marked, 

 it continues to increase in definiteness and in the size of its component 

 elements. Figs. 106, 107 and 108 (PI. XXXV) show successive 

 stages in the elaboration of these large heavily ciliated cells of the 

 velar edge, and sections, as figs. 91 and 92 (PL XXXII) in particular, 

 show the great increase in size which now marks them. 



Coincidently occurs the expansion of the velar lobes to form the 

 broad wings or velar folds which characterize the functional larva 

 at the time it becomes free-swimming. As the velar area expands it 

 becomes deeply notched below where the lobes of the opposite side 

 rise to meet over the mouth, and this growth in length and breadth is 

 marked on the dorsal side as well. Figs. 109 and 110', side and dorsal 

 views of the same veliger, show the condition of development of the 

 velum just before the larva breaks from the egg capsule, though in these 

 drawings from fixed material the velum is of necessity considerably 

 contracted. In fig. 110 it will also be noted that the region just above 

 the mouth has grown out into a projecting process, and it is upon this 

 area that the former apical point (animal pole) lies. 



Head Vesicle. 



The Head Vesicle of Fiona reaches its greatest prominence at a stage 

 shown in fig. 104 and slightly older larvae. Somewhat later (figs. 105, 

 106) it becomes actually larger, but relatively smaller when compared 

 with the larva as a whole, and has also become greatly involved in the 

 formation of the velar lobes. It is composed of cells of the first quartet 

 lying within the trochoblasts and ends of the arms of the cross, and 

 its greatest extent is covered by cells which he posterior to the lateral 

 arms. A posterior cell plate, such as is found in Crepidula, is not here 

 developed, for though doubtless the same cells are present, they have 

 multiplied to a much greater extent than in Crepidula or Planorbis, 

 and form a layer of small cells which are scarcely distinguishable from 

 those in front or at their sides. Neither is an apical cell plate demar- 

 kated in the region corresponding to the location of that structure in 

 Crepidula, the cells in front of the apex being all of similar size and 

 seemingly without regularity of arrangement, so that it is with the 

 greatest difficulty that the apex can be located among the large number 

 of small cells of equal size by which it is surrounded. As has been 

 described before, the point of greatest forward extension lies first in the 

 region of the tip of the anterior arm of the cross, but ^\-ith continued 

 growth the apical area becomes pushed forward so that it shortly occu- 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



pies the point of greatest anterior extension, while the tip region of 

 the anterior arm through which the velum runs lies ventral to the apex 

 in the direction of the blastopore (figs. 95, 98). At the same time the 

 head end becomes rounded by increased grow^th of the cephalic area. 

 The four original apical cells, as shown in figs. 75 and 76, divide soon 

 after and again at a stage represented by fig. 95, so that this region, 

 which in Crepidula is in the fully developed veliger still marked by four 

 apicals (la"", etc.), here comes to consist of at least twelve very small 

 cells, among which no regularity of arrangement is sufficient!}^ marked 

 to be of value in orientation. These cells are extremely difficult 

 to distinguish from numerous other cells of like form and structm-e 

 which cover the anterior surface of the head vesicle. The apical group 

 continues its for^-ard migration in relation to the larva as a whole and, 

 as it appears, pushes aside some of the cells which have arisen from 

 divisions of the inner and outer basals of the anterior arm, for at a 

 later period (fig. 108) the apical group lies close against the first velar 

 row. Either such a shifting occurs or the basals become involved in 

 the development of the velum. In fig. 108 a row of cells may be 

 distinctly observed in which the nuclei are particularly large, extending 

 laterally from the apical point. My first thought on seeing them was 

 that they were a part of the velum, but after definitely locating the 

 position of the apex and following the later history of the velum, it is 

 clearly seen that this row never enters into the latter structure, but 

 represents in its cell-lineage derivatives of cells of the lateral arms of 

 the cross. No ciliation has been discovered in the apical area, and such 

 structures are certainly not strongly marked, though without examin- 

 ing living material a denial of the possible presence of such structures 

 would scarcely be conclusive. 



Nerve and Sense Organs. 



Cerebral Ganglia. — The cerebral ganglia arise at a stage about 

 corresponding to fig. 105, though they do not become well marked 

 until somewhat later (fig. 108). During this period cells may be 

 seen proliferating inward from the ectoderm of the head vesicle 

 in the two regions which lie lateral from the apical area. A row 

 of cells with large nuclei are at this time plainly visible running 

 laterally from the apex, and it is along the anterior side of these 

 cells that the ganglia first arise. This row has been identified as 

 coming from the lateral arms of the cross, and cells lying between it 

 and the anterior portion of the first velar row are from the same source. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Later many of these large cells also divide and go into the ganglia. 

 Thus it will be seen that the two cerebral ganglia arise from elements of 

 the two lateral arms, the anterior rosettes, and probably also from some 

 cells of the anterior arm which have been pushed laterally by the 

 advance of the apex and lie in the region where the gangUa develop. 

 The tip cells of the lateral arms certainly do not take part in the forma- 

 tion of the ganglia, as they he too far laterally and probably go into 

 the velum. Where no large cells, the definite lineage of which is known, 

 are left as landmarks, it is obviously impossible to give absolute deri- 

 vatives for the ganghonic rudiments. Comparing, however, the above 

 approximate derivation with other MoUusks which have been studied 

 in this connection similarities are evident. In Crepidula the ganglia 

 "very probably arise from the lateral extensions of the anterior arms". 

 Holmes has been able to state very definitely the manner of origin of 

 these gangHa in Planorbis, as here they are smTOunded by conspicuous 

 cells. He says: ''The tip cells of the lateral arms and the cells lying 

 immediately above them do not enter into the formation of these 

 masses; with the exception of these, two cells in each arm, all the cells 

 in the lateral arms of the cross, the cells of the anterior arm, except the 

 tip and basal cell, and the central region of the cross, except the four 

 apicals, and the two cells lying in front of them, enter into the forma- 

 tion of these rudiments". 



Otocysts and Pedal Ganglia. — The otocysts appear at a consider- 

 ably earlier period than the ganglia which innervate them or the 

 cerebral ganglia. They are first seen as slight invaginations on 

 the sides of the foot slightly below the stomodaeal invagination, 

 and at a stage sho^^-n in figs. 103 and 104 have developed to 

 deep pits, the openings of which have become much constricted. As 

 these constrictions narrow, the two otic vesicles arise and are con- 

 nected with the external ectoderm by strands of cells which re- 

 sulted from the constriction of the outer portion of the invaginations. 

 Somewhat later the pedal ganglia are seen slightly external to the 

 otocysts in position. These ganglia arise in part from the strands 

 wliich connected the otocysts with the ectoderm, and in part from other 

 cells proliferated from the ectoderm in the same region. At first the 

 cerebral gangha are not connected with each other by a commissure 

 nor with the pedal ganglia, but later cells grow out and meeting con- 

 nect the cerebral ganglia together, while between cerebral and pedal 

 ganglia like connectives arise, probably both ganglia contributing 

 cells to their formation. These connectives are very large (fig. 94), 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



and the whole cephahc nervous system is much concentrated. Behind 

 the pedal ganglia and somewhat higher dorsally may be distinguished, 

 particularly in older larvae, the rudiments of the pleural ganglia, which 

 also appear to have arisen by delamination of the ectoderm and lie in 

 close association with cerebral and pedal ganglia. A very heavy 

 commissural strand connects the two pedal ganglia, and the whole 

 nervous system of the larva foreshadows in its compact structure the 

 adult condition, individual gangha being difficult to distinguish. Figs. 

 92 and 94 show sections through this region at a somewhat later 

 period than figs. 88 and 89. Eyes have not developed to a functional 

 condition in the oldest larvae observed. Sections of these show pig- 

 ment granules within cells lying close to the cerebral ganglia, and in 

 some cases these cells lie around a slight invagination of the ectoderm — 

 the first evidence of optic organs. 



Excretory Organs. 



The large excretory cell which lies on the right side of the larva and 

 forms the chief member of a group of similar greatly vacuolated cells 

 lying in that region arises from the third quartet in the C quadrant, 

 and from its large size and conspicuous appearance its complete history 

 is known. Returning to a segmentation stage, in which the egg con- 

 tains about one hundred and twenty cells (fig. 70), it will be seen that 

 the third quartet group in C quadrant contains seven cells. Divisions 

 next occur in the three large cells, 3c^-^-, 3c"^- and 3c^^" (fig. 77). The 

 cell 3c"" does not divide with these, nor does it ever again divide, but 

 continues its growth, soon becoming the largest element in the ecto- 

 derm. As gastrulation proceeds this large cell, 3c"" (Ex.), the origin 

 of which is thus established, appears at the right of the elongating 

 gastrula (left of figs. 78,, 79) and with the closure of the blastopore lies 

 midway between dorsal and ventral surfaces, as shown in figs. 98 and 

 99. It has become much larger, when compared with its neighboring 

 cells, both from lack of division and by actual growth. As the veliger 

 takes form this cell becomes yet more marked (fig. 102), and when 

 the shell gland has become prominent (fig. 104) it is seen lying in a sHght 

 depression surrounded by small cells which are in an active state of 

 division. As the foot arises and the cephalic end of the veliger is 

 differentiated from the body, the large excretory cells move upward 

 along the body just posterior to the pedal groove, on the right side, 

 this change of position being a natural sequence of the general torsion 

 of that region (figs. 105, 106). The intestine has also become well 

 developed by this time as a solid strand of cells connecting the pos- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 375 



terior end of the enteric cavity with the ectoderm, and this latter point 

 of contact is just below the large excretory cell. Fig. 88 shows a sec- 

 tion through this region, showing the excretory cell to be much vacuo- 

 lated and to lie for the most part below the ectoderm. At a consider- 

 ably later stage (figs. 109, 110) its position and structure are shown 

 just before the vehger escapes from the egg capsule. A large nucleus, 

 which usually contains several small nucleoli and having the general 

 appearance of nuclei in cells which have for a long time remained 

 undivided, lies at the lower end of the cell. The cytoplasm is greatly 

 vacuolated and at its peripheral end, where it meets the exterior, is 

 seen a deep pit with constricted mouth. This appears to function 

 as an intra-cellular duct, for it comes into connection at its inner end 

 with the large vacuoles which fill the cell. Just above and anterior 

 to the large cell is a group of smaller ones which contain darkly stained 

 nuclei and pigment granules. One of these, the largest, also contains 

 vacuoles and lies nearest the cell 3c"". In somewhat older larvse one 

 or two of these smaller cells, which lie close to 3c"", have increased 

 much in size, JDecome greatly vacuolated and appear to function as 

 their larger neighboring cell. These smaller accessory excretory cells 

 are also doubtless of ectodermal origin and, since they lie between the 

 principal one and the blastopore, are doubtless derived from the same 



quartet. 



In- addition to the excretory cells above described others of a similar 

 nature are found in the larva of Fiona. Sections (figs. 90, 91) of fairly 

 well-developed veligers show^ two cells (Nph) nearly symmetrically 

 placed on the two sides of the body just behind the constriction sepa- 

 rating head from body region. These cells contain large nuclei and 

 their protoplasm is clear and greatly vacuolated. In a shghtly older 

 stage (the oldest larva examined) yellowish-brown granules are very 

 evident, lying in the meshwork of the vacuolated cytoplasm. The 

 cell on the left side (fig. 91) lies just to the side of and slightly higher 

 than the otocyst of that side, being closely associated with its ganglia, 

 while the one on the right side (fig. 90) lies higher and is in close prox- 

 imity to the smallest cells of the large excretory organ of that side. It 

 may be distinguished from the cells of this organ by its clear cytoplasm 

 and the color of the granules lying in it. In later stages another cell 

 of similar nature may be seen beside the one on the right side, but 

 only one has been observed on the left. The origin of these cells is not 

 known. In earlier stages cells of shghtly smaller size lie in the regions 

 which they later occupy, but cannot be distinguished in structure 

 from neighboring mesodermal elements. However they lie close to 




376 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



the ectoderm and may have come from that source. The later fate 

 of these cells is unknown, but as they are increasing in size they prob- 

 ably function as important larval oroans. They will here be designated 

 "nephrocysts," for they correspond to cells of similar position and 

 structure described by Trinchese (ISSl) for the larva of Ercolania 

 and other Nudil^ranchs. by whom an excretory function was ascribed 

 them. Older and living material is desirable before making definite 

 statements regarding the nature and function of these apparently 

 similar larval organs of Fiona. 



Numerous investigators have seen and described with various inter- 

 pretations the excretory organs of larval Opisthobranchs. As early as 

 1839 Loven observed the anal kidney in Xudibranch larvae, but did 

 not recognize its function, though indicating that it was probably an 

 undeveloped sexual organ. Likewise Sars (1840) described a similar 

 structure in the veliger of Tritonia, which, together with the large endo- 

 dermal cell which lies near it, he associated in common function with 

 the liver l^dng on the opposite side of the enteron. In ^olis Hke 

 structures were found. Later (1845) he distinguished the vacuolated 

 excretory cell and its neighboring pigmented cells, classing the whole 

 as a reproductive anlage. Reid (1846) observed a like structure in a 

 number of Nudibranchs (Doris, Pohjcera, Doto, etc.), considering it 

 to be probably the heart from contractions which he saw it imdergo. 

 In Vogt's very thorough paper on Actceon, appearing in 1846, the excre- 

 tory organ is somewhat neglected, though his figures indicate its pres- 

 ence. Nordman in the same j-ear described this organ in Tergipes, 

 and referred a reproductive significance to it. Schneider (1858) also 

 found it in Phyllirhoe. iDut assigned no definite fimction. Langerhans 

 (1873), having observed in the living larvae of Doris and Acera cells in 

 the anal region which contained concretions, and from which drops 

 were extruded considered the organ to be of an excretory nature. 

 In 1875 Lankester found similar conditions in Aplysia, and con- 

 sidered the organ to have arisen either from intestinal cells near 

 which it lay or from the ectoderm. 



Trinchese (ISSl) described an ''anal gland for Ercolania wdiich is 

 strongly pigmented and Hes on the right side of the body". This he 

 believed arises from three or four mesodermal cells which acquire 

 pigment and by their division form the organ in question. The same 

 was found in Amphorina, Bergia and Doto, in the last case being paired. 

 In addition to the anal excretory organ, Trinchese also found in the 

 above forms two "rini primive" in the dorsal region under the ecto- 

 derm, one right and the other left. These he described as vesicular, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



spherical or ovoid bodies having a lower part full of transparent 

 liquid, in which lay concretions of a yellowish color. These he denomi- 

 nated '"nephrocisti" (nephrocysts) and ascribed to them a mesodermal 

 oridn, since they have no connection with the exterior. Haddon 

 (1882) found a mass of cells on the right side of Jantheria and Philine, 

 near the anus in Elijsia on the left side, and in Pleurobranchidium on 

 both sides. In 1888 Rho found similar organs in Chromodoris which 

 he stated arise from a few mesoderm cells containing numerous con- 

 cretions and excreta which indicate their functional value. He con- 

 cluded that this structure corresponds to the right Prosobranch 

 kidney, considering the left to be rudimentary. Lacaze-Duthiers 

 and Pruvot (1887), in a paper on Opisthobranch embryology, described 

 the anal organ of Aplijsia, Philine, Bulla, Pleurobranchus, Doris and 

 members of the family ^olidida, stating that in origin it is entirely 

 ectodermal and that it was none other than an " anal eye." This eye, 

 it was claimed, becomes strongly developed in the blind larva and 

 later atrophies as true eyes appear. It stands in connection with a 

 cell-mass, ganghonic in nature, the "asymmetrical centrum" of 

 Lacaze-Duthiers. 



Mazzarein (1892) came to some very different conclusions from work 

 on Aplysia. He beUeves the organ in question to have neither the 

 structure nor function of an eye, and, moreover, it remains present 

 in the larvae after eyes are developed. From its position and structure 

 it is doubtless a kidney. He derives it from paired rudiments which 

 originally were closely associated with the endodermal elements of 

 the^ al3oral pole (mesentodermal cells) and which later, separating, 

 wander into the blastocoel cavity and, after torsion begins, first the 

 left and then the right come to lie in the neighborhood of the anus and 

 together form a small cavity which acquires communication with the 

 exterior. This unpaired kidney is homologous to the kidney ("niere") 

 which in many Prosobranchs is found in the same place and, as is 

 well known, forms the anlage of the definitive kidney. Mazzarelli, 

 therefore, concludes that the anal kidney of the Opisthobranch larva 

 is a secondary kidney ("secondare niere"), while the primitive kidney 

 of these MoUusks is already known (the "nephrocisti" of Trinchese). 

 The anal kidney is but the anlage of the definitive kidney, which in 

 this case corresponds not to the right but to the left adult kidney of 

 the Prosobranch. 



Heymons (1893) has carefully described the conditions found m 

 Umhrella. The excretory rudiment is here at first paired and arises 

 from the cells 3c^S 3d^\ which sink somewhat below the surface and 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



divide several times, one cell in each group remaining large. Thus 

 the excretory cells of Umbrella are ectodermal in origin. In further 

 history Heymons finds that the large cell of the left side decreases in 

 prominence and finally is indistinguishable from those surrounding 

 it, while the right continues to enlarge and, with the torsion of the larva, 

 is carried higher on that side. Later a second large cell appears by 

 the side of this one, which Heymons thinks cannot represent the 

 original left cell, as this would presuppose too great a migration, but 

 rather one of those associated with the original right, the growth of 

 which has been delayed. The function of a larval excretory organ is 

 assigned only to this group of cells by Heymons. 



In 1895 Mazzarelli, after a study of the development of a large num- 

 ber of forms {Philijie, Gastropteron, Actceon, Oscanius, Pleurohranchus, 

 Tethys, Archidoris, Aplysia, Hermcea, Janus, Polycera and Haminea), 

 came to the conclusion that the anal organ of Loven, Sars, Pruvot, 

 Lacaze-Duthiers and others was not, as Lacaze-Duthiers, Pruvot and 

 Heymons maintained, of ectodermal origin, but rather mesodermal, 

 arising from two large and other smaller mesoderm cells which become 

 pigmented and which by a slight ectodermal invagination acc{uire 

 an external opening. In later development he finds these cells form a 

 connection with the pericardium, which has arisen from a mesodermal 

 mass closely connected with them. Therefore, he concludes that 

 the anal kidney of the Opisthobranch larva is not homologous with 

 the head kidney of the Prosobranchs, but from its origin, position and 

 relation (particularly in connection with the pericardium) it is none 

 other than the anlage of the definitive kidney of the adult And 

 also, since it lies to the left of the rectum, it corresponds to the 

 kidney of the Gastropods which possess but one, and to the left kidney 

 of those with two. Viguier (1898) describes the anal kidney of Tethys, 

 distinguishing an excretory lumen, around which are grouped several 

 cells; he does not indicate its origin. 



Among the Prosobranchs externally situated larval excretory organs 

 appear to have been found generally. Salenskj^ (1872) has described 

 such bodies filled with concretions lying upon the side of the body in 

 CalyptrcBa and Nassa. Bobretzky (1877) found the same in Fusus, 

 these cells lying behind the velum and without an underlying ectoder- 

 mal layer. This latter condition is placed in doubt by McMurrich 

 (1886). Similar organs to the above were found in Fissurella by 

 Boutan (1885), while in Capulus (v. Erlanger, 1893) a single large 

 ectodermal cell, probably excretory in function, was found on each 

 side of the body behind the velum. For Crepidula Conklin (1897) has 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



minutely described a group of ectodermal cells lying laterally just 

 behind the velum and probably arising from the second quartet; they 

 become much vacuolated, filled with darkly stained granules and be- 

 fore metamorphosis separate from the ectoderm and are lost. Erlanger 

 (1892) concluded that the larval kidney of Bythinia was partly ecto- 

 dermal and partly mesodermal, and had no connection with the 

 definitive kidney of the adult. The earlier results of Blitschli (1877) on 

 Paludina as well as Bythinia were enlarged by Erlanger (1891-2), 

 showing that in these fresh-water Prosobranchs the larval kidney 

 was formed from inner mesodermal and outer ectodermal por- 

 tions. 



Rabl (1879) established a mesodermal origin for the primitive kidney 

 of Planorbis, and Holmes (1900) in his late work confirms the same. 

 Fol (1879) derived the larval kidney of Planorbis entirely from the 

 ectoderm. Wolfson (1880) described the larval kidney of Limnaa 

 as arising from a large velar cell on either side which migrates inward, 

 retaining connection with the exterior through an intra-cellular duct. 

 Meissenheimer (1898) says of Limax, we have "in der urniere ein rein 

 ekto-dermales Gebilde vor uns, zu dem das ^lesoderm auch nicht den 

 geringsten Beitrag geliefert hat." From his figures and discussion it 

 appears very evident that in this form the primitive kidney is purely 

 ectodermal in origin. In 1899 Meissenheimer published his investiga- 

 tions on the "Urniere der Pulmonaten" (of the Basommatophora, 

 Ancylus, Physa, Planorbis, Limncea, and of the Stylommatophora, 

 Succinea, Helix, Avion, Limax). In both these groups he shows the 

 larval kidney to be entirely ectodermal in origin and similar in struc- 

 ture, the urinary tube of the latter group being many-celled, while in 

 the former but four cells comprise it. In both a ciliated cell or cells 

 closes the inner end of the tube, and for this reason Meissenheimer com- 

 pares the primitive kidney of the Pulmonate with the end cells of the 

 water vascular system of the Platyhelminthes. 



Among the Lamellibranchs Hatschek (1880) describes the larval 

 kidney of Teredo as probably both ecto- and mesodermal in origin. 

 In the single left primitive kidney of Cyclas, Stauffacher (1897) found 

 a similar though more complicated structure arising from Ijoth ecto- 

 dermal and mesodermal elements. 



Meissenheimer (1901) finds that in Dreissensia polymorpha the larval 

 kidneys arise from ectodermal cells wholly, each of the two being formed 

 from a few in-wandering cells. ' The structure is more simple than that 

 of the Pulmonates and Meissenheimer suggests that it may be the 

 ground type of the group. This might then be described as an ecto- 




3S0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



dermal invaginating tube with the end closed by a vacuolated heavily 

 cihated cell. 



From the above account of some of the more important observations 

 and conclusions upon the nature and origin of the larval excretory 

 organs of the Lamellibranchs and Gastropods (and of the latter more 

 jjarticLilarly of the Opisthobranchs), one is strongly impressed with the 

 feeling that much more work must be done upon these organs of mul- 

 luscan larvse before we are ready to come to definite conclusions 

 regarding their mutual relations and homologies, if such exist. Nor 

 has the investigation recorded in this paper brought forward facts 

 which justify an immediate solution of the problem. The anal kidney 

 of Fiona doubtless corresponds to the similar structure described for 

 so many members of the Opisthobranchia, Ijut its derivation is totally 

 different from the results obtained by some of the more recent and 

 careful workers in this group. 



Mazzarelli's conclusions regarding its mesodermal origin, resulting 

 from investigations upon a large number of closely related forms, are 

 very different from mine. There is no point regarding the cytogeny 

 of Fiona of which I am more certain than that the group of cells con- 

 stituting the anal kidney is of ectodermal origin, and one member 

 of the group (the largest, 3c"") has been traced through every step 

 of its history, from the initial cleavages which produce it to its fimctional 

 condition upon the right side of the veliger larva at the time of hatching. 

 In this respect my results are entireh^ in accord with those of Heymons 

 for Umbrella and, except for the function assigned to the resulting 

 organ, agree closely with Lacaze-Duthiers and Pruvot's derivation 

 of the same structure from ectodermal cells. With regard to the 

 fate of this organ, the work of Rho and Mazzarelli appears to show con- 

 clusively that it becomes metamorphosed into the kidney of the adult, 

 and the latter's comparison of this organ with the adult kidney of 

 those Gastropods which possess but one, or with the left of those with 

 two, is in entire accord with the generally accepted opinion upon this 

 subject. Unfortunately material has not been available for a study 

 of the metamorphosis of Fiona. But on a priori grounds it should 

 be similar in all essential features to the above-mentioned processes of 

 development in closely allied forms. The metamorphosis of the anal 

 kidney of the larval Opisthobranch into the definitive kidney of the 

 adult might seem, at first sight, fair grounds on which to doubt its 

 ectodermal origin, since the latter structure has generally been con- 

 sidered to be a mesodermal derivative. But if in this connection be 

 considered the recent results of Meissenheimer, who derives the adult 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



kidney and allied structures of Limax and Dreissensia, representing 

 two distinct molluscan groups, from ectodermal rudiments, after an 

 investigation which bears every evidence of care and accuracy, the 

 possibility at least of a similar manner of formation among the 

 Opisthobranchs must be granted. 



So little is as yet known of the "Nephrocysts" of Trinchese that any 

 discussion of their significance and possible homologies must of neces- 

 sity be largely hypothetical. An exact knowledge of their derivation 

 and structure would be of the utmost value. In Fiona when first seen 

 they lie in the cleavage cavity, but whether they have wandered there 

 from the ectoderm or are from the first mesodermal in character is 

 yet an imsolved problem. Should they prove to be of ectodermal 

 origin their position might justify a close homology with the Proso- 

 branch larval kidney, and possibly also with those of the Pulmonates 

 and Lamellibranchs, since Meissenheimer has indicated the larval 

 kidneys of the two latter groups to be of ectodermal origin, and his 

 work is supported bj' the earlier investigations of Wolf son and Fol. 

 Should these nephrocysts prove entirely mesodermal there is yet a 

 possibility of their similarity to the larval kidneys of the Prosobranchs, 

 Lamellibranchs and Pulmonates, through the investigations of Biitschli 

 and Erlanger for the Prosobranchs, Rabl and Holmes for the Pulmo- 

 nates and Hatschek for the Lamellibranchs, who derived the primitive 

 kidney of members of these groups in part or entirely from mesodermal 

 elements. However, the structure of the nephrocj'sts of Opistho- 

 branchs is very different from the primitive renal organs of the groups 

 above cited, for, as far as is known, they appear wholly enclosed in 

 the schizocoel with no external ducts. The fact of their very rudi- 

 mentary structure suggests an explanation for the great development 

 reached by the anal kidney. When we consider that in other groups 

 possessing true larval excretory organs the anlage of the definitive 

 kidney does not develop into a condition of functional activity until 

 after metamorphosis, while among Opisthobranch larvae, even before 

 the time of hatching, certain cells of this structure are actively con- 

 cerned in the work of excretion, the causal relation between rudimen- 

 tary structures on the one hand and advanced development on the 

 other is brought forcibly to mind. The nephrocyst of the Opistho- 

 branch is not a prominent or well-developed structure, and with its 

 phylogenetic decline precocious development has arisen in the rudi- 

 ment of the definitive kidney, resulting in functional activity in a 

 part at least of its formative elements long before development of 

 the adult organ. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



There is yet another possil^le explanation of the renal organs as 

 found in Opisthobranch larvse which will be stated but briefly, since a 

 preponderance of hypothesis over fact is always to be regretted. It 

 is generally conceded that whether the anal kidney be of mesodermal 

 or ectodermal origin its rudiment is at first a paired structure, one 

 part of which may fail to develop into a renal organ (Heymons) or 

 unite with the other (Mazzarelli). The nephrocysts are paired struc- 

 tures, one lying close to the anal kidney, the other in an almost similar 

 position on the opposite side of the body. It is possible that the nephro- 

 cyst of the right side is but a part of the anal kidney of that side, while 

 that of the left represents the degenerate whole of the rudiment of that 

 side. In this case, of course, true larval kidneys would be wanting. 



The Enteron. 



As the archenteron arises from the cleaving cntoblast it presents, 

 when viewed from the vegetative pole, an irregular depression, the 

 bottom of which lies considerably below the edge of the blastopore. 

 The macromeres, 5 A, 5B, 5C and 4D, are at the bottom of this pit, with 

 5a, 5b and 5c lying peripherally from them, while above these and next 

 to the ectoblast come 4c', 4b^ 4a2 and the smaller cells 4c\ 4b^ and 4a^ 

 In the posterior region are found the small cells E\ E^ e^ e^ (entero- 

 blasts) which have arisen from 4d. The fifth quartet and all the 

 macromeres are the next cells to divide, this resulting in enlargement 

 of the wall area of the enteron, and by this division into smaller ele- 

 ments closer contact between the blastomeres results. Hitherto the 

 entoblasts have been much rounded (except those meeting directly 

 in the center), and have lain together in a very irregular manner, 

 particularly after invagination began. With diminution in size and 

 rearrangement of these cells a distinct cavity with closed dorsal wall 

 arises (fig. SO). At the anterior end lies the large cell 4b2, while pos- 

 teriorly and laterally are found the two large cells 4:0?, 4c-; between 

 and behind them are the enteroblasts. At first the enteron is longer 

 on the right side (left of figures), the cell 4c^ lying more posterior than 

 4a^ this being the natural result of the division which early separated 

 the large mesentomere from 4D of that side and the lack of growth 

 and division in this latter cell for so long a period. But as development 

 proceeds and the whole enteron grows in antero-posterior extent it will 

 be noted that 4a-, which is a very large cell and easily distinguishable, 

 gains in its backward course upon the opposite cell of like lineage (4c^) , 

 comes to lie opposite to it and later more posterior (figs. 80, 81, 82). 

 This process is the beginning of the torsion of the intestine, and is appa- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



rently to be explained in at least its first manifestations as the direct 

 result of increase in growth of one side over the other. After Aa? lies 

 considerably more posterior than the derivatives of the large cell, 

 which before lay opposite it (4c-\ 4c", fig. 81). the cell ^h^ is seen to 

 be midivided as yet and still at the anterior median point of the 

 enteron, showing that the change of position of 4c- relative to its 

 opposite cell has" been the resiUt of greater increase in the area of the 

 left over that of the right enteric wall. 



During this process 4a- has not been observed to divide and it main- 

 tains its large size throughout. On the opposite side Ac^ has divided 

 into cells of eciual size and divisions are continued in this region, result- 

 ing in the thinning of that portion of the enteric wall and an equaliza- 

 tion of the size of the cells which compose it. With the continued 

 growth of the enteron 4a- is moved still more posteriorly and finally 

 toward the right (left of figs. 82, 83). In fig. 84, which represents 

 the enteron in optical section at a stage about corresponding to fig. 104, 

 4a- is seen lying directly in the median fine. Above, in the anterior 

 median portion of the enteron, is a group of large yolk-ladened cells 

 which have been derived from 4b=^ and its neighboring cells. This 

 group will soon shift somewhat to the left and become the rudiment of 



the liver. 



As was seen before, the small cells W, E\ e\ e\ which were separated 

 from the anterior end of the mesentoderm, at first lie between isx^ and 

 4c\ An actual section at this stage parallel to the ventral surface 

 (fig. 85) shows that the inner of these cells are yet in contact with the 

 enteric cavity. I am confident that the cells in this figure marked 

 ''enteroblasts'' represent mesentoblastic derivatives. Their history, 

 position, size and the structure of their nuclei, which are small and 

 darkly stained, correspond to these cells. With the increase in extent 

 of the left side of the enteron and, after the closure of the blastopore, 

 by its continued growth, these enteroblasts, which may be distinguished 

 from their neighbors by their darkly staining nuclei and their smaller 

 size, become pushed from the median plane toward the right side as the 

 large cell 4a- advances around to a more and more posterior position 

 (fig. 83). Finally, when 4a2 itself lies on the median line, these cells lie 

 entirely to the right and are more posterior than those which have come 

 from 4c and 5c. A slightly diagonal actual section, as fig. 86. shows the 

 large cell 4a^ in the median plane. Just behind it and slightly to the 

 right are shown in the section five small cells lying closely pressed 

 between 4a2 and the shell-gland invagination behind. These cells 

 correspond in position and in appearance to the small enteroblasts 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of fig. 85. If we now examine section fig. 87, which is taken through 

 a vehger shghtly older than that shown in fig. 104, the relation of the 

 enteron to its surrounding structures may be ol^served. The large 

 entodermic cell, 4a^ has been successively traced through preceding 

 stages from its origin on the left side of the archenteron to its final 

 position on the right of the enteric cavity, as is shown in the figure. 

 Just posterior to this will be noted a mass of cells connecting the enteron 

 with the ectoderm. The nuclei of these cells are compact and deeply 

 staining, and the cytoplasm is decidedly clearer and contains less 

 yolk than that of the cells directly surrounding the enteric cavity. 

 Moreover, their position beside the large cell 4a- and now, through the 

 torsion which the enteron has undergone, their later position some- 

 what posterior to this cell, indicates the probability of their correspond- 

 ence with the "enteroblasts" of fig. 86 (PI. XXXI) and earlier stages, 

 in which the identity of these cells is unquestioned. 



It is proper in this place to consider again the results of Carazzi's 

 work on Aplysia and its relation to the mesentodermal history of 

 Fiona. It will be remembered that Carazzi's account of the hneage 

 of 4d up to a stage w'hen its derivatives number twelve cells exactly 

 parallels my results on Fiona, but regarding the fate of these cells 

 there is lack of agreement. The anterior small cells of Aplysia are 

 believed to be purely mesoblastic. while at least four of them in Fio7ia 

 appear, from the preceding account, to be entodermal in nature. 

 Carazzi, however, derives endoderm from the two small posteriorly 

 directed cells (e, e^ of Aplysia) which correspond to z\. z- of Fiona. 

 These latter cells were last seen lying at the posterior end of the gas- 

 trula of Fiona closely pressed against the ectoderm. At a later period, 

 when a large number of mesodermal elements lie in this region, the z^, 

 7? cells become indistinguishable from these. Sections of later stages 

 (fig. 87) show two cells which are larger and clearer than the entero- 

 blasts and which he against the ectoderm where the intestinal mass 

 touches it. They may represent the cells z^ z^, but of this there is 

 no evidence except that, given above. Anal cells are not a marked 

 feature of the developing embryo of Fiona, but at this time sections 

 in particular show two cells of somewhat larger size than the sm-round- 

 ing ectodermal elements, against which the forming intestine abuts 

 and which are doubtless comparable to the anal cells of other forms 

 (fig. 87, An.C). 



It will now be seen that the portion of the enteron lying most 

 posterior and close against the shell-gland invagination has been 

 derived from the cells which formed the bottom and the left side of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



the original archenteric invagination (oB, ob, 4C, 5C, 5c, 4D, 5A) 

 while dorsally and anteriorly are seen more yolk-ladened elements 

 whose origin may be traced to the large entoderm cell 4b- and those 

 around it. The stomodaeal invagination breaks through at a much later 

 period between the descendants of 5a and 4b and their neighboring 

 cells, which have been turned in an anterior direction, while doubtless 

 cells from 4c and 5b also push in upon this region with the closure of 

 the blastopore. By the torsion which the enteron has undergone the 

 upper mass of large yolk-ladened cells is moved more and more to the 

 left, while in like manner 4a- turns to the right. While this is occurring 

 the invaginating sliell-gland has pushed the anterior and posterior 

 walls of the enteron very closely together, both enteric and cleavage 

 cavities being practically obliterated (fig. 86). When this structure 

 evaginates the enteron again opens out and has then lost its elongated 

 form, being rounded with its wall cells in close contact (fig. 87). 



In Umbrella as well as in Fiona 4b' occupies the anterior end of the 

 enteric mass pushing up into the pointed apex of the gastrula, and the 

 same is true of Aplysia in which there are but two large blastomeres, 

 though according to Blochmann's nomenclature such does not appear 

 to be the case. In later stages the positions of the large cells of the 

 fourth quartet of Umbrella and Fiona are identical. The intestine of 

 Umbrella is said to be formed by C" and D" (5c and 5d), which, as Hey- 

 mons did not take into consideration an entoblastic contribution from 

 4d, correspond fairly well to the conditions foimd in Fiona, where these 

 cells lie just at the place of origin of the intestine and may well take 

 part in its future development. The cell-lineage of the archenteron 

 of Crepidula is given as follows: "The four macromeres form the roof 

 of the archenteric cavity. The cells of the fifth quartet form its lateral 

 boundaries, arching the cavity on all sides save the posterior. Here 

 the archenteric cavity runs backward between the cells 5C and 5D (5c 

 and 5d) nearly to the posterior boundary of the egg. The cells of the 

 fourth quartet come together on the ventral side of the archenteron, 

 forming its floor anteriorly and ultimately giving rise to some of the 

 many small cells which form that part of the mesenteron, adjoining 

 the stomodseum." The intestine arises from the posterior lower right 

 region of the enteron as a tube-like evagination, formed from the entero- 

 blasts derived from 4d and neighboring small endodermal cells and 

 ending blindly against the ectoderm. Later it elongates and the end 

 is carried somewhat upward along the right side by trosion of the larva. 

 It contains a lumen from the first. As the stomach begins to enlarge 

 it is seen to be bounded by large cells dorsally and anteriorly in its lower 

 25 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



regions. As development proceeds it is elongated, its posterior end 

 being ventrally directed and turned toward the right. The develop- 

 ment of the liver of Crepidula comes later, being retarded by the 

 great amoimt of yolk. 



The next change in the development of the enteron of Fiona may 

 be observed in fig. 105, which represents a veliger in which the ali- 

 mentary canal is beginning to become differentiated into several parts. 

 Anteriorly is seen the stomodseiim, which has as yet not broken through 

 but touches the wall of the enteron. Above and to the left of this 

 point of contact is a decided lobing of the wall of the enteric cavity, 

 formed of the large yolk-ladened cells which at an earlier period lay in 

 the anterior region of the archenteron. This is the rudiment of the 

 liver, and as development proceeds the invagination becomes larger and 

 more constricted at its base, forming a rounded lobe upon the left dorsal 

 wall of the enteric canal. Behind the rudiment of the liver the enteron 

 has widened into a capacious sac which is larger at its upper anterior 

 end, the walls of the whole being formed of rather small cells which are 

 yet rich in yolk. This is the stomach, and it ends blindly against the 

 intestinal mass behind and to the right. The intestine is yet a solid 

 strand of cells connecting the posterior end of the stomach with the 

 ectoderm. With the growth of the veliger this strand has become 

 more slender, elongated and turned forward, its distal end lying well 

 up on the side of the body behind the constriction which forms the 

 foot. The huge excretory cell lies just dorsal to this point (figs. 106, 

 107). In figs. 90, 91, 92 and 93, which represent coronal sections of 

 a veliger somewhat older than figs. 105 and 106, and shghtly more 

 mature than that of fig. 107, it will be seen that the intestine is still a 

 solid strand of cells; and that the oesophagus is as yet not in open con- 

 nection with the rest of the alimentary canal. An examination of a 

 considerably older larva (figs. 109, 110) shows a very small lumen, 

 just beginning to form in the center of the intestinal strand, but as 

 yet no communication between oesophagus and enteric cavity. 



Stomodceum and Mouth. 



As the blastopore narrows (fig. 79) it becomes entirely surrounded, 

 except at the anterior end, by third quartet cells. At the anterior 

 point second quartet cells from 2b" and 2b-^^ lie along the edge also. 

 Figures of a later stage (as 97, 98) show the blastopore as a mere 

 rounded opening, its edges and walls below thickly set with darkly 

 nucleated cells, and when complete closure occurs a plug of these cells 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



may be observed upon lateral optical section dipping down from the 

 region of closure to the enteron beneath. These cells have come largely 

 from the third quartet of all four quadrants, and represent the smaller 

 cells of this quartet which lay nearest the open blastopore. This 

 condition exists but for a short time, for soon a broad pit may be ob- 

 served in this region occupying exactly the place where the blastopore 

 closed. As it forms the cells which have been invaginated to form the 

 blastopore-plug open out again so that a blind pit results, the lower 

 surface of which is formed by those cells which were first pushed inward 

 as the blastopore was closing, and correspond to the second and third 

 C[uartet elements w^hich are shown in fig. 79 surrounding the blastopore. 

 The stomodseal invagination continues to increase in depth by growth 

 and division of the cells which already form it and by further invagina- 

 tion of surrounding cells, so that, as the form of the veliger begins to ap- 

 pear (figs. 103, 104, 105, 106), second and third quartet cells from all 

 the quadrants lying in the region probably become involved. , At first 

 the stomodseum is broad and shallow, but as it increases in depth it 

 narrows and becomes more dorsally directed at its inner end. In 

 section, fig. 90, and in drawings of the oldest veliger shown (figs. 109, 

 110), the stomodseal invagination has as yet not formed an open con- 

 nection with the enteron, but shortly afterward this occurs, at which 

 time the stomodseum is much elongated. Union is established with the 

 stomach pouch just below the opening of the large liver lobe. 



Fiona agrees with a large number of JMollusks in which the blasto- 

 pore closes and the stomodseum forms at the same point. Among 

 them may be named Nassa (Bobretzky), Neritina and Aplysia (Bloch- 

 mann), Elysia (Vogt), various ^Eolididse (Trinchese), Doris (Langer- 

 hans), Crepidula (Conklin), Planorbis (Holmes) and Trochus (Robert). 

 In Patella (Patten), Fusus (Bobretzky), Pteropods and Heteropods 

 (Fol) and Limnwa (Lankester) the blastopore is said to remain open 

 and pass over directly into the mouth. 



Shell-gland and Foot. 



If one examines the segmenting egg somewhat later than such a 

 stage as shown in fig. 73, it will be observed that the posterior has con- 

 siderably outstripped the anterior region in extent and that, together 

 with numerous divisions, the cells have also enlarged considerably in 

 size. The area which lies along the median line, and so is derived from 

 the second quartet, shows most plainly this rapid increase in extent, 

 and it is here particularly that the cells themselves become greatly 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



enlarged and prominent. This is the region of posterior growth, and 

 from this area arise both the shell-gland and the foot. 



Taking up first the history of the former of these two organs, it will 

 be found that in a stage represented by figs. 95 and 98 the whole 

 area between the blastopore and the end of the posterior arm of the 

 cross shows karyokinetic activity, but particularly in the region marked 

 Sh.G. the cells have increased considerably in size. As growth con- 

 tinues these cells upon the upper and posterior surface of the gastrula 

 protrude above the level of the ectoderm, the area which they cover 

 having the appearance of a rough cobble-stone pavement; but some- 

 what later they settle down and form a smooth surface. The center of 

 this area, which now lies just opposite the region of the stomodseum, 

 begins to invaginate, pushing the enteron before it and reducing its 

 cavity, so that there results a deep pit which, growing in size below, con- 

 stricts above, and around which are several row^s of large granular cells 

 (fig. 102). Such a condition lasts but a short time, for soon the invagi- 

 nated area opens outward, the whole forming a large thick-walled 

 cap upon the posterior end of the veliger, constricted around its edge 

 and merging abruptly with the thin-walled ectoderm anterior to it (fig. 

 104). As growth proceeds the shell-gland spreads and becomes much 

 thinner, while the larval shell appears as a secretion of the large cells 

 which compose it. As the shell continues to extend over the veliger 

 its outer edge is marked by several rows of large cells, which by their 

 secretive activity lay down the substance which forms the shell (figs. 

 105, 106, 107). Almost from its origin as a distinct structure the shell- 

 gland is slightly displaced to the left side of the body, and as it increases 

 in extent this lack of bilateral symmetry becomes more marked (fig. 

 107). 



The ventral prominence wliich develops into the foot arises some- 

 what later than the shell-gland, and the cells which go into it come from 

 the second quartet of D quadrant and the third quartet of C and D 

 quadrants. The large ectodermal excretory cell, which in the lar\-a 

 lies just behind the foot, serves as a guide to show that much of the 

 foot, like this cell, arises from C quadrant of the third quartet; and 

 though no such landmark is present on the other side, the early history 

 of the two quadrants are so similar that we may reasonably suppose a 

 like origin from the third quartet for the left side of the foot. Lillie 

 has derived the foot of Unio from cells of the second quartet, and Conk- 

 lin appears to have done the same for Crepidula. Holmes states for 

 Planorbis that as the cells immediately behind the blastopore are of 

 third quartet origin, probably the "median portion of the anterior end 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



of the foot is derived from some of these cells". Robert describes a 

 similar condition for Trochus. In Fiona not only the median portion 

 but also much of the lateral area certainly comes from the third quartet. 

 The foot here does not arise as a paired swelling as in Patella (Patten), 

 Fulgar (Mc]\Iurrich) and Trochus (Robert), but shows from the first 

 a median protuberance which increases in size and later becomes 

 broadened and flattened (figs. 103, 108, 110). Its upper surface is 

 covered with numerous cells, but they are not arranged to form a 

 conspicuous cell-plate as in Crepidula. Large cells mark its lower 

 surface and they soon begin to secrete the operculum. 



Larval Musculature. 



It is particularly unfortunate that for a study of the muscles of the 

 velum no living material has been available, as without this many 

 points of interest must of necessity be lost. When the veliger breaks 

 from its capsule it presents an appearance shown in figs. 109, 110, 

 though it should be remembered that in fixed material, from which 

 the drawings were made, the muscles must be much contracted. The 

 whole posterior region is swollen into a huge transparent vesicle, at the 

 anterior end of which lies the contorted alimentary canal. In dotted 

 outline is represented the probable position of the cuticular-like shell 

 before shrinkage. In a larva of such age one of the most characteristic 

 features is a large dorsal retractor muscle, which has its posterior point 

 of attachment well to the left of the dorsal side of the posterior vesicle. 

 It runs forward and branches just before reaching the liver lobe, its 

 two anterior ends becoming attached to the ahmentary canal and the 

 body wall in the region of the oesophagus. In structure it is composed 

 of large spindle-shaped interlacing cells, which are flattened dorso-ven- 

 trally, giving the muscle a band-like form. In fmiction this muscle 

 doubtless acts as a retractor for the anterior and particularly the upper 

 portion of the cephalic region. A dorsal view of the same veliger 

 shows two lateral muscles, the right and left retractors of the foot, 

 which arise about midway back on the sides of the posterior vesicle 

 and extend forward through the lower part of the neck region, to end 

 in branching fibers in the foot. That of the right side is larger than 

 the left, and in earher stages (figs. 105, 106) is much thicker than later 

 and relatively larger. In figs. 105 and 106 is showoi a small muscle 

 (Vl.R.) extending from the dorsal neck region to the velar folds where 

 it branches greatly. Other similar retractor muscles of the velar 

 lobes extend from the walls of the alimentarv canal and the bodv wall 




390 PROCEEDIN-GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



outward into the velar area branching extensiveh'. Fine interlacing 

 fibers are also found in the foot in older stages. 



Returning to the period marked by fig. 105, the dorsal retractor 

 muscle is seen to be a short thick strand of cells extending from the 

 shell region to the enteron near the position of the liver. It is here 

 already branched and runs along the sides of the alimentary canal. 

 The right retractor of the foot is, as shown, a very heavy cell strand 

 which miites the foot with the lower dorso-lateral portion of the shell. 

 A view from the left side would show a muscle occupying a similar 

 position, but in this case much thinner (fig. 107 shows their relative 

 sizes at a slightly later stage). Even at this early period the dorsal 

 retractor is posteriorly. attached to the left of the median line. 



Bearing in mind the distinction of Lillie and others betw^een primary 

 mesoblast (ento-mesoblast) and secondary mesoblast (ecto-mesoblast 

 or larval mesoblast), the attempt has been made to distinguish between 

 these two sources of muscular tissue in the developing larva of Fiona, 

 with, however, but partial success. The velar retractors, w^hich lie in 

 the region of the head vesicle, are formed from secondary mesoblast. 

 Those cells which we have seen cut off from the third c^uartet in the 

 two anterior quadrants lie in the antero-lateral region of the gastrula, 

 and may for some time be distinguished from the primary mesoblast 

 cells. When at an early period spindle-shaped muscle fibers appear 

 in this region, their origin from these cells can scarcely be doubted. 

 The component elements of the dorsal retractor are hard to distinguish. 

 When this muscle first appears at a stage about midway between figs. 

 104 and 105, several large cells lie wedged in between the rounded 

 wall of the enteron and the ectodermal area in the upper region of the 

 shell-gland. The evidence is strong that these cells at least are from 

 the primary mesoblasts. At this time, however, other cells extend 

 along the enteron, connecting the compact posterior group with the 

 loosely lying spindle-shaped elements of the velar retractors. They 

 doubtless help form the more anterior portion of the dorsal retractor 

 and, lying as they do so close to where secondary mesoblast was formed, 

 m.ay be derivatives of it. The two retractors of the foot and the inter- 

 lacing fibers of that organ itself are doubtless composed of cells which 

 have come from 4d. From the above account it is seen that a true 

 "larval mesoblast" is found in Fiona, since much at least of the mus- 

 culature of the velum, a purely larval organ, is derived from this 

 secondary mesoblast. 



No organ in any way comparable to a larval heart is to be found in 

 the oldest veligers which I have studied. 




1004.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Change of Axis and Form of the Developing Organism, 



The egg at the time of laj'hig is spherical. ^Yith the division into 

 four cells the primary egg axis, running between the centers of the 

 animal and vegetative poles, becomes shorter than the diameter of the 

 equatorial plane. As segmentation proceeds this relation persists 

 (fig. 14), and with continued division the formation of a large cleavage 

 cavity becomes more pronounced. Until the cleaving egg reaches a 

 stage of over sixty cells its surface, when viewed from either pole, 

 appears almost perfectly rounded, but shortly after this its antero- 

 posterior axis becomes shorter than the lateral (figs. 45, 56, 74), this 

 relation holding until increased growth in the posterior and anterior 

 quadrants causes elongation in that direction. Until about a stage 

 shown in fig. 74 the primary egg axis, running from the center of the 

 animal to the center of the vegetative pole, follows a straight line. 

 Immediately after this, accentuated growth of the posterior region 

 initiates a bending of this axis, which finally results in its complete 

 folding upon itself, or a rotation through 180 degrees. A sharply 

 pointed anterior projection arises (fig. 78), while at the same time the 

 posterior dorsal region is rapidly increasing in extent and changing 

 the embryonic axis. As the gastrula elongates the apical pole is moved 

 forward, and by the time the first velar row becomes distinct the origi- 

 nal polar axis has become so bent upon itself as to form an angle of 

 nearly 90 degrees (figs. 95, 98). With the continued multiplication 

 of cells in the head region that portion of the larva changes from its 

 originally pointed shape into a rounded though not prominent head 

 vesicle, while at the same time the opposite end is rounded by continued 

 growth of second and third quartet elements (figs. 100, 101). The orig- 

 inal polar axis wall be seen in these figures to have moved through about 

 135 degrees. In the next stage, represented by figs. 102 and 104, 

 the head vesicle has reached its largest relative size when taken in 

 connection with the veliger as a whole. Comparing these figures with 

 those which have gone before, a marked increase will be seen in the 

 antero-posterior depth, and if this be considered in connection ^\ith the 

 great change of axis the enormous growth of the posterior region will 

 be evident. It is generally conceded that the head vesicle of mol- 

 luscan and annelidan larvse is of functional importance in serving as a 

 float. In Fiona the head vesicle is never large and prominent and a 

 substitute may reasonably be expected. With the differentiation of 

 the velar lobes and foot the shell-gland may in figs. 105, 106 and 107 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEI^IY OF [April, 



be seen to be rapidly spreading over the posterior region. As this 

 is being accomphshed it also grows greatly in size, producing the enor- 

 mous posterior vesicle which in figs. 109 and 110 extends far behind 

 the internal organs of the body. The importance of such an organ 

 must be considerable and, taken in connection with the early decrease 

 in size of the head vesicle, strongly suggests that its functional value 

 is similar in kind to that usually ascribed to the anterior or head 

 vesicle of other larvse. 



In all older veligers figured the original polar axis has become com- 

 pletely bent upon itself, a rotation of 180 degrees having occurred. 

 With regard to the median plane of the future embryo, the first cleavage 

 plane is obliquely transverse to this plane. AVhen the mesoderm is 

 formed it is thrown over toward this median plane, and from the first 

 is approximately bilateral in position (figs. 24, 31, 34). The elements 

 of both entoblast and ectoblast, which in late stages of cleavages lie 

 on the median plane, appear to be derived from cells of the early 

 cleavages which occupied similar positions. Little rotation, if any, 

 is apparent other than a certain amount of irregularity found in all 

 portions of eggs with equal or nearly equal cleavage. 



Conklin describes for Crepidula an entire rotation of the ectoblastic 

 cap at the time when the anterior and lateral cells of the fourth quartet 

 arise. Heymons shows a similar rotation in Umbrella. Such a change 

 of axis in the germ layers does not occur in Fiona, nor is there necessity 

 for it. The large macromeres of Crepidula and Umbrella are here 

 represented by small cells, which do not modify the positions of the 

 germ la3^ers at the time of their origin nor necessitate supplementary 

 rearrangement. 



Abstract. 



Maturation begins at the time of laying. Two polar bodies are 

 given off, the first of which may or may not divide. The un- 

 segmented egg of Fiona is rich in yolk, the spherules being com- 

 paratively small. In shape the egg is round, but shghtty flattened 

 in the direction of its polar axis. One to three eggs are found in a 

 roomy egg capsule. 



The early cleavage is strictly spiral after the dextral sequence. The 

 first quartet of micromeres are much smaller than the macromeres, 

 but with succeeding divisions the cleavage becomes equal in character. 

 After the four macromeres are formed they give rise to successive 

 quartets of micromeres. The first three quartets contain all the ecto- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



blast. The mesoblast arises in part from the fourth quartet cell 

 of D quadrant. The remaining fourth quartet cells and all the 

 macromeres are entoblastic, as is also the case with a small portion 

 of 4d. 



The first quartet of ectomeres give rise to the trochoblasts and ecto- 

 blastic cross. To the latter structure are added as "tips" the upper 

 cells of the second quartet m all quadrants. The cross is radially- 

 spiral in symmetry, and does not increase in breadth by transverse 

 sphtting of its arms until a comparatively late period. Cells from the 

 fu-st quartet form the head vesicle, cerebral ganglia and eyes, and a 

 portion of the first velar row. 



The second quartet has a similar cleavage history in all four quad- 

 rants until a stage of about 150 cells. In later development the 

 elements of this quartet in D (posterior) quadrant show great 

 increase in size and divisional activity, initiating the posterior point 

 of growth, with resulting bending of the embryonic axis. Cells from 

 this area form the shell-gland and median portion of the foot. A 

 large number of second quartet cells from the anterior and lateral 

 groups aid in the formation of the velum. The more ventral elements 

 of B quadrant help to close the blastopore. 



In the third quartet bilateral cleavages first appear in the posterior 

 quadrants (cells 3c^ and 3d^). Secondary mesoblasts arise from the 

 anterior quadrant groups of this quartet (cells 3a^"S 3a"" and 3b^"^ 

 3b^^"). The large anal excretory cell (3c"") and its associated cells 

 are derived from C quadrant of this quartet. Third quartet cells 

 surround the blastopore as it closes, with the exception of a small 

 anterior portion; much of the stomodseum and the lateral portions 

 of the foot come from third quartet elements. 



The mesoblast of Fiona is derived from two sources, ento- mesoblast 

 from 4d and ecto-mesoblast from the third quartet in A and B quad- 

 rants. The greater amount comes from 4d and forms teloblastic 

 bands in the posterior region of the gastrula. The secondary mesoblast 

 (ecto-mesoblast) is largely "larval" in fate, since much of it goes to 

 form the muscles of the velum. From the history of 4d it appears 

 that this cell contains both mesoblastic and entoblastic derivatives, 

 the latter taking part in the formation of the intestine. 



As is the case with many Opisthobranchs, the gastrula is sharply 

 pointed anteriorly, the apical point at first lying at the end of the 

 anterior arm of the cross. 



The blastopore at the time of closure is surrounded by third 

 quartet cells, except at its anterior edge, where second quartet cells are 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



present. The stomodceum later forms at the point where the blasto- 

 pore closed. 



The shell-gland at first forms a deep invagination, which later opens 

 out and covers the posterior end of the veliger with a cap of large 

 cells which soon begin to secrete the shell. From the first the shell 

 is slightly shifted toward the left, and this asymmetry becomes more 

 marked with continued growth. With the enlargement of the shell 

 a conspicuous posterior vesicle results. 



The foot arises as an unpaired swelling below the stomodceum. Its 

 under surface later secretes an operculum. 



The first velar row is formed from the anterior trochoblasts (A and 

 B quadrants), the tips of the anterior arm of the cross, and possibly 

 from other cells of the first quartet in this region. The second velar 

 row is derived from underlying cells of the second quartet. A post- 

 oral velar area is but slightly marked. In later development the velum 

 becomes bilobed and broadly expanded. 



A prominent head vesicle is not present in the older vehgers, and 

 with this may be correlated the development of a large posterior vesicle. 

 No apical sense-organ has been found, nor are distinctly marked apical 

 plates present. The cerebral gangha appear in the angles between 

 the anterior and lateral arms of the cross. Otocysts are formed by 

 invaginations of the ectoderm upon the sides of the foot, and pedal 

 gangha appear closely associated with them. The eyes are late in 

 appearing and are intimately connected with the rudiments of the 

 cerebral ganglia. 



The anal kidney of the larva is derived from the ectoderm, coming 

 from 3c^"^ and associated cells. With the torsion of the larva this 

 group is shifted farther to the right, and eventually lies well up on the 

 right side of the veliger above the anal opening. Primitive ex- 

 cretory cells are also found lying in the body cavity laterally behind 

 the velum. 



The enteron is formed by invagination of the entomeres, which at 

 first form an elongated sac; with the evagination of the shell-gland 

 this becomes rounded. The hver is derived from large yolk-ladened 

 cells lying at the anterior end of the enteron, and later the rudiment 

 of this organ becomes turned toward the left side. Torsion of the 

 enteron results from lengthening of the left side and is caused by 

 increased growth of that region. The intestine is at first a solid thick 

 cell-strand and is composed largely of entoblasts from 4d; it later 

 elongates and acquires a lumen. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 395 



Literature. 



Alder, J., and Hancock, A. Observations on the Structure and Development 

 of Nudibranchiate MoUusca. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. XII, 1843. 



British Nudibranchiate Mollusca (a monograph). Roy. Society London 



184.5. 



Blochmaxn', F. Ueber die Entwicklung der Xeritina fluviatilis. Zeit. Wiss 

 Zool., Bd. XXXVI, 1881. 



Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Gasteropoden. Ibid., Bd. XXXVIII, 1883. 



BoBRETZKY, X. Studien tiber die embryonal Entwicklung der Gastropoden. 



Arch, fur mikr. Anat., Bd. XIII, 1877. 

 BouTAN, L. Recherches sur I'anatomie et la developpement de la Fissurella. 

 Arch. Zool. Exp. Gen., Tom. Ill, Suppl., 1S8.5. 



Sur le developpement de I'Haliotide. Compt. rend. Assoc. Franc. Tom. II 



1892. 



Sur le devleoppement de TAcmsea virginiea. Compt. rend. Acad. Sci. Paris, 



Tom. CXXVI, 1898. 



BuTSCHLi, O. Entwicklungsgeschichtliche Beitrage. Ueber Paludina vivipara. 



Zeit. Wiss. Zool, Bd. XXIX, 1877. 

 Carazzi, D. L'embriologia dell' Aplysia limacina L. fino alia formazione delle 



strisce mesodermiche. Anat. Am., Bd. XVII, 1900. 



Georgevitch und die Embryologie von Aplysia. Ibid., Bd. XVIII, 1900. 



Child, C. 'M. Preliminary Account of the Cleavage of Arenicola cristata. Zool. 



Bidl., Vol. I, 1897. 

 Earlv Development of Arenicola and Sternapsis. Arch. f. Ent. der Orqan., 



Bd. IX, 1900. 

 CoxKLiN, E. G. Note on the Embryology of Crepidula fornicata and of Uro- 



salpinx cinerea. Joh. Hop. Univ. Circ., Vol. X, No. 88, 1891. 

 The Cleavage of the Ovum of Crepidula fornicata. Zool. Anz., Bd. XV, 



1892. 



The Embryolog}^ of Crepidula. Journ. Morph., Vol. XIII, 1897. 



Cramptox, H. E. Reversal of Cleavage in a Sinistral Gastropod. A7in. X. Y. 



Acad. Sci., Vol. VIII, 1894. 

 Drasche, C. von. Beitrag zur Entwicklung der Polychreten. "VVien, 1884. 

 Elsig, H. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Capitelliden. Mitth. Zool. Stat. z. 



Neapel., Bd. XIII, 1898. 

 Erlanger, R. von. Zur Entwicklung der Paludina vivipara. Th. I u. II. 



Morph. Jahrb., Bd. XVII, 1891. 

 Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Gastropoden. Erster Theil., 



Zur Entwicklung von Bvthinia tentaculata. Mitth. Zool. Stat, z Neapel., 



Bd. X, 1892. 



On tlie paired Nephridia of Prosobranchs. Quart. Jour. Mic. Soc, \o\. 



XXXIII, 1892. 



Mittheilungen fiber Bau und Entwicklung einiger marinen Prosobranchier. 



I. Ueber Capulus hungaricus. Zool. Ajiz. Jahrg., XV, 1892. 



Bemerkung zur Embryologie der Gasteropoden — Urnieren. Biol. Cen- 



tralb., Bd. XIII, 1893; Bd. XIV, 1894; Bd. XVIII, 1898; also Arch. Biol., 

 Tom. XIV, 1895. 



Etudes sur le developpement des gasteropodes pulmones faites au labora- 



toire Heidelberg. Arch. Biol., Tom. XIV, 1895. 



FoL, H. Sur le developpement des Pteropodes. Arch. Zool. Exp. Gen., Tom. IV, 

 1875. 



Etudes sur le developpement des Molluscs. Heteropodes. Ibid., Tom. V. 



1876. 



Etudes sur le developpement des Gasteropodes pulmones. Ibid., Tom. 



VIII, 1880. 



Georgevitch, P. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte von Aplvsia depilens. Anat. 



Anz., Bd. XVIII, 1900. 



Carazzi und seine Kritik. Ibid., Bd. XIX, 1901. 



Grant, R. E. On the Existence and Uses of Cilia in the Young of Gastropodous 



Mollusca, and on the cause of the Spiral Turn of Univalve Shells. Edinb. 



Journ. Sci., Vol. VII, 1827. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



GuiART. J. Contribution a I'etude des Gasteropodes Opistobranches et au 

 particulier des Cephalaspides. Mem. Soc. Zool. France, Tom. XIV, 1901. 



Haddon, a. C. Notes on the Development of Mollusca. Quart. Jour. Mic. Sci., 

 Vol. XXII, 1882. 



Hatschek, B. Ueber die Entwicklungsgeschichte von Teredo. Arh. Zool. 

 Inst. Wien, Bd. Ill, 1880. 



Entwicklung der Trochopora von Eupomatus. Ibid., Bd. VI, 1885. 



Heymons, R. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte von Umbrella mediterranea. Zcit. 



Wiss. Zool, Bd. LVI, 1893. 

 Heath, H. The Development of Ischnochiton. Zool. Jahrb. Abth. Anal. u. 



Ontog., Bd. XII, 1899. 

 Holmes, S. J. The Cell-Lineage of Planorbis. Zool. Bull, Vol. I, 1897. 



Secondary Mesoblast in the Mollusca. Science, Vol. VI, 1897. 



Reversal of Cleavage in Ancylus. Am. Nat., Vol. XXXIII, 1897. 



The Early Development of Planorbis. Jour. Morph., Vol. XVI, 1900. 



Keferstein, W. Malacoza Cephalophora. Bronn's Klass u. Ord., Bd. Ill, 



1862-66. 

 Keferstein, W., und Ehlers, E. Beobachtungen iiber die Entwicklung von 



^olis perigrina. Zool. Beitrdge, 1861. 

 KoFOiD, C. A. On the Early Development of Limax. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool 



Harv. Coll., Vol. XXVII, 1895. 

 KoREN und Danielssen. Bemaerkninger til MoUuskernes Udvkling. i\yt. 



Mag. /. Nat. Videnskab., Christiania, 1848. 

 Lacaze-Duthiers, H. Memoire sur I'anatomie et I'embryogenie des Vermets. 



A7in. Sci. Nat. Zool, Tom. XIII. 1860. 

 Lacaze-Duthiers et Pruvot. Sur un ceil anale larvaire des Gasteropodes 



Opisthobranches. Comp. rend. Acad. Sci. Paris, Tom. CV, 1887. 

 Lang, A. Die Polycladen des Golfes von Neapel. Fauna u. Flora des Goljes 



Neap., Bd. XI, Monographia, 1884. 

 Langerhans, p. Zur Entwicklung der Gastropoda Opisthobranchia. Zeit. 



^Yiss. Zool, Bd. XXIII, 1873. 

 Lankester, E. R. Observations on the Development of the Pond Snail 



(Lymnseus stagnalis) and on the Early Stages of Other Mollusca. Quart. 



Journ. Mic. Sci., Vol. XIV, 1874. 



Contributions to the Developmental History of the Mollusca. Phil. Trans. 



Roy. Soc. London, Vol. CLXV, Pt. I, 1S75. 



On the Coincidence of the Blastopore and Anus in Paludina vivipara. 



Quart. Journ. Mic. Soc, Vol. XVI, 1876. 



On the Originally Bilateral Character of the Renal Organs of Prosobranchs, 



etc. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. VII, 1881. 

 LiLLiE, F. R. The Embryology of the Unionidse. Journ. Morph., Vol. X, 



1895. 

 LovEN, S. Bidrag till Kaennedomen af MoUuskernas utwickling. Kongl 



Vetenskaps Acad. Handl, 1838, Stockholm, 1841. 

 Mazzarelli, G. Intorno al preteso occhio anale deUe larve degli Opistobranchi. 



Re7id. R. Accad. Lincei, Vol. I, Ease. Ill, 1892. 



Monografia delle Aplysiidae del Golfo di Napole. Mem. Soc. Ital, Tom. 



IX, 1893. 



Bemerkungen iiber die Analniere der freilebenden Larven den Opistho- 



branchies. Biol Centralbl, Bd. XVIII, 1898. 



McMuRRiCH, J. P. A Contribution to the Embryology of the Prosobranch 

 Gasteropods. Stud. Biol. Lab. J. Hop. Univ., Vol. 1886. 



Mead, A. D. The Early Development of Marine Annelids. Journ. Morph., 

 Vol. XIII, 1897. 



Meissenheimer, J. Entwicklungsgeschichte von Limax maximus. I. Fur- 

 chung und Keimblatterbildung. Zeit. Wiss. Zool, Bd. LXII, 1896. 



Entwickslungsgeschichte von Limax maximus. II. Die Larven-periode. 



Ibid., Bd. LXIII, 1898. 



Zur Morphologic der Urniere der Pulmonaten. Ibid., Bd. LXV, 1899. 



Entwicklungsgeschichte von Dreissensia polj^morpha Pall. Ibid., Bd. 



LXIX, 1901, 



Meyer, E. Studien liber der Korperbau der Anneliden. Mitth. Zool Stat. z. 

 Neapel, Bd. XIV, 1901. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



NoKDMAN, A. V. Essai d'une Monographie de Tergipes Edwardsii. Ann. Sci. 



Nat. ZooL, Tom. V, 1846. 

 Patten, W. Embryology of Patella. Arb. Zool. Inst. Univ. Wien, Bd. VI, 



1886. 

 Rabl, C. Die Ontogenie der Siisswasser-Pulmonatea. Jena. Zeit. Naturw., 



Bd. IX, 1875. 



Ueber den Entwicklung der Tellerschnecke. Morph. Jahrb., Bd. V, 1879. 



Beitrag zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Prosobranehier. Sitzung. k. 



Akad Wiss. Wien, Bd. LXXXVII, Abth. Ill, 1883. 



\/ Reid, J. On the Development of the Ova of Nudibranch MoUusks. Ann. Mag. 



Nat. Hist., Vol. XVII, 1846. 

 Rho. F. Studii sullo sviluppo deUa Chromodoris elegans. Atli R. Accad. 



Sci. Napoli, Vol. I, 1888. 

 Robert, A. Recherches sur le developpement des Troques. Compt. rend. 



Acad. Sci. Paris, Tom. CXXVII, 1898. 



La segmentation dans le genre Trochus. Ibid., Tom. CXXXII. 1901. 



Recherches sur le developpement des Troques. Arch. Zool. exp. gen. 



Ser III, Tom. 2, 1902. 

 Salensky, W. Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Prosobranchien. Zeit. 

 Wiss. Zool, Bd. XXII, 1872. 



Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte von Vermetus. Biol. Centralbl.. Bd. V, 1886. 



Sars, M. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Mollusken und Zoophyten. Arch. 



Naturgesch., Bd. Ill, 1873. 



Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Mollusken. Arch. Naturgesch., 



Bd. VI, 1840. (Supplementary paper on Nudibranchs, Ibid., Bd. XI, 

 1845.) 



ScHiMKEWiTSCH, W. Zur Kenutniss des Baues und der Entwicklung des Dino- 

 philus vom Weissen Meere, Zeit. Wiss. Zool., Bd. LIX, 1895. 



Schneider, A. Ueber die Entwicklung der Phyllirhoe bucephalum. Arch. 

 Anat. u. Phys., Vol. XXV, 1858. 

 ^ Smallwood, W. M. Notes on the Natural History of some Nudibranchs. Bull. 

 Syracuse Univ., Ser. IV, No. 1. 



Stauffacher, H. Eibildung und Furchung bei Cyclas cornea. Jena Zeit. f. 

 Naturw., Bd. XXVIII, 1893. 



ToxNiGES, C. Die Bildung des Mesoderms bei Paludina vivipara. Zeit. Wiss. 

 Zool, Bd. LXI, 1896. 



Treadwell, a. L. The Cell-Lineage of Podarke abscura. (Preliminary Com- 

 munication.) Zool. Bull., Vol. I, 1897. 



The Cytogeny of Podarke obscura. Journ. Morph., Vol. XVII, 1901. 



Trinchese, S. I primi moment! dell' evoluzione nei Molluschi. Atti R. Accad. 



Lincei, Mem. Vol. VII, Roma, 1880. 



■ • Per la fauna marittima italiana. .^olididae e Familie affini. /6i(i., Vol. XI, 



Roma, 1881. 



Ricerche anatomische ed embriologiche suUa Flabellina affinis. Mem. R. 



Accad. Sci. delV Instituto d>. Bologna, Tom, VIII, 1887. 



Torrey, J. C. The Early Development of the Mesoblast in Thalassema. Anat. 



Am., Bd. XXI, 1902. 

 "\"iGuiER, C. Contribution a I'etude du developpement de la Tethys fimbriata 



Arch. Zool. exp. gen., Tom. XVI, 1898. 

 VoGT, C. Recherches sur I'embryogenie des Mollusques Gastropodes. Ann. 



Sci. Nat. Zool., Tom. VI, 1846. 

 Whitman, C. O. The Inadequacy of the Cell Theory of Development. Woods 



Holl Biol. Led., 1893. 

 WiERZEJSKi, A. Ueber die Entwicklung der Mesoderm bei Physa fontinalis. 



Biol. Cenfralb., Bd. XVII, 1897. 

 Wilson, E. B. The Cell-Lineage of Nereis. Journ. Morph., Vol. VI, 1892. 



Considerations on Cell-Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscence. Ann. New 



York Acad. Sci., Vol. XI, 1898. 



WoLFsoN, W. Die Embryonale Entwicklung des Limnaeus stagnalis. Bull. 



Acad. Sci. St. Petersbourg, Tom. XXVI, 1880. 

 ZiEGLER, E. Entwicklung von Cyclas cornea. Zeit. Wiss. Zool., Bd XLI, 1885. 




398 



proceedings of the academy of 



Table of Cell-Lineage. 

 a. quadrant. 



[April, 



Arrows pointing to right, dexiotropie direction of cleavage; to left, kro- 

 tropic; double-headed arrows, horizontal; double-headed bent arrows in history 

 of 4d, bilateral cleavages with relation to cells of opposite side. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



Table of Cell-Lineage, 

 b. quadrant. 



599 




400 



proceedings of the academy of 



Table of Cell-Lixeage. 

 c. quadrant. 



[April, 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 



Table of Cell-Lineage, 

 d. quadrant. 



401 



L'(j 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Reference Letters. 



Ap Apical point, 



An.C Anal cell. 



Bl Blastopore. 



Oes (Esophagus. 



Op Operculum. 



Ot Otocyst. 



C.G Cerebral ganglion. [ P.B Polar Body. 



Dr.R Dorsal retractor muscle. P.C Pedal Commissure. 



Ebl Enteroblasts. P.G Pedal ganglion. 



E.C Large enteric cell. Rt.R.Ft Right retractor muscle of 



En Enteron. foot. 



Ex Large anal excretory cell. Sec.M Secondary mesoderm. 



Ft Foot. ! Sh.E Edge of shell. 



Int Intestine. ! Sh.G Shell-gland. 



L Liver. I St Stomodaeum 



Lt.R.Ft Left retractor muscle of 



foot. 



Mo Mouth. 



M.F Muscles of foot. 



Nph.L Left nephrocyst. 



Nph.R Right nephrocyst. 



Stom Stomach. 



Tel Teloblast. 



V* First row of velar cells. 



V^ Second row of velar cells. 



Vl.L Velar lobe. 



VI. R Retractor muscle of velum. 



Note. — In the drawings the trochoblasts are represented with stippled nuclei ; 

 upper pole views show the ectoblastic cross in heavy outline. Plates I-XI, 

 XIII, and Figs. 101-104 of PI. XIV are reduced ^ from original drawings, the 

 remaining figures i. Figs. 7, 36, 39, 46 and 55 have been omitted from Plates. 



Explanation of Plates XXI-XXXV. 



Plate XXI, Fig. 1. — Section of egg of Fiona marina, showing first maturation 

 spindle. 



Fig. 2. — Section. First polar body being given off. Sperm nucleus with 

 astral rays below. 



Fig, 3. — Section. Rise of second polar body. Enlargement of sperm 

 nucleus and astral rays. 



Fig. 4. — Lateral view of entire egg. Approach of male and female pro- 

 nuclei. 



Fig. 5. — First cleavage ; figure seen from side. 



Fig. 6. — Completion of first cleavage, as seen from above. The two polar 

 bodies lie between the nuclei. 



Fig. 8. — Completion of second cleavage, seen from upper pole. A polar 

 furrow is present at the vegetative but not at the animal pole. 



Fig. 9. — L^pper pole xlQVf, showing spindles which institute third cleavage. 



Plate XXII, Fig. 10. — Dexiotropic turning of spindles of the first quartet, 



with constriction and rounding out of these cells. Lateral view. 

 Fig. 11. — Same egg as fig. 10, seen from above. 

 Fig. 12. — Lateral view of slightly older egg than Fig. 10, showing compact 



grouping of blastomeres after division. 

 Fig. 13. — Completion of fourth cleavage, Iteotropic in direction, by which 



tlie second quartet is separated from the macromeres. 

 Fig. 14. — Lateral view of same egg as fig. 13. 

 Fig. 15. — Lfeotropic division of first quartet, by whicli the "turret cells" 



(trochoblasts), la-, Ib^, Ic^, Id", arise. In following figures the turret 



cells and their derivatives are indicated by stippled nuclei. 

 Fig. 16. — Lateral view of same egg as fig. 15. 

 Fig. 17. — First cleavage of the cells of the second quartet (dexiotropic). 



The macromeres are about to give off the third quartet by dexiotropic 



cleavage. 




1904.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Plate XXIII, Fig. 18. — Slightly later stage (lateral view) than fig. 17. Divi- 

 sion of the second quartet is about completed. 



Fig. 19. — Animal pole view of egg, in which the divisions showTi in figs. 17 

 and 18 are fulh' completed. 2-4 cells. 



Fig. 20. — Vegetative pole view of egg slightly older than fig. 19, showing 

 spindle which initiates the separation of 4d. 



Fig. 21. — Transition stage between 25 and 33 cells (seen from animal pole). 

 All eight cells of the second quartet are dividing Iseotropically, the 

 upper four forming the ''tip" cells of the cross (2a", 2b'^, 2c", 2d"). 



Fig. 22. — Same egg as fig. 21, seen from vegetative pole. The Iteotropic 

 division of 3D, forming 4D and 4d (ME), is completed. 



Fig. 23. — Animal pole view of egg containing 41—14 cells, la'-ld' have 

 divided in a dexiotropic direction the "apicals" (la"-ld") and the 

 "basals" (la'--ld'-) of the" ectoblastic cross." 



Plate XXIV, Fig. 24. — Same egg as fig. 23, seen from vegetative pole. All 

 tlie third quartet cells have divided Iseo tropically. The macro- 

 meres, 3A, 3B, 3C, are dividing in a similar direction to complete the 

 fourth quartet. 



Fig. 25. — View of vegetative pole of egg slightly older than fig. 24. The 

 formation of the fourth quartet is completed and the meseutomere 

 4d (ME) has divided into right (ME>) and left (ME') halves. 



Fig. 26. — Lateral view from B quadrant of an egg same stage as fig. 25. 



Fig. 27. — Lateral view of an egg, D quadrant, same stage as fig. 25. 



Fig. 28. — Animal pole view of an egg showing, (1) dexiotropic divisions of 

 2c'-, 2a'^, 2b'- ; (2) heotropic division of 2b-' ; Iseotropic to horizontal 

 division of 2c-'. The trochoblasts, Ic-, Id-, are also beginning to 

 divide. 



Fig. 29. — Same egg as fig. 2S, seen laterally from B cjuadrant. 



Fig. 30. — Same egg as fig. 28, lateral view of C quadrant; 3c' is cleaving in 

 a dexiotropic direction. 



Fig. 31. — Vegetative pole view of same egg as fig. 28, showing bilateral 

 divisions of 3c', 3d'. 



Plate XXV, Fig. 32. — Lateral view D quadrant, slightly older stage than fig. 

 28, .showing bilateral divisions of 3c', 3d'. 



Fig. 33. — Upper pole view of same egg as fig. 32, shownng cleavage in three 

 of the "basal" cells of the cross, lb'- is dividing in a la?otropic 

 direction; in Ic'^ the spindle is dexiotropic to radial in position; in 

 la'- heotropic to radial spindle. The turrets, la- and lb', show dexio- 

 tropic cleavage. About 60 cells. 



Fig. 34. — Mew of vegetative pole of somewhat older stage than fig. 31 ; 

 3a', 3a^, 3b' and 3Vj- liave all divided in a dexiotropic manner. 



Fig. 35. — Same stage as fig. 34, lateral view of C and D quadrants. 



Fig. 37. — Lateral view of A quadrant, showing dexiotropic division of 3a-. 



Fig. 38. — L^pper pole view^, showing completion of cleavage forming " l^asals" 

 (la'^'-ld'2') and "middle" (la'^^-ld'-) cells of cross. 



Fig. 40. — Slightl}^ older stage than preceding, .showing completed cleavage 

 of 3b'. 



Fig. 41. — Same egg as fig. 40, A cjuadrant. 



Plate XXVI, Fig. 42. — View of vegetative pole of egg with about 68 bias- 

 tomeres. ME' and ME- are dividing bilaterally. 



Fig. 43. — Lateral view, A and D quadrants of egg with about 75 blastomeres, 

 showing dexiotropic cleavage of 2a-" and Iseotropic divisions in 

 3d", 3d'^ 



Fig. 44. — Same egg as fig. 43, seen from C cjuadrant. 3c" and 3c'^ are divid- 

 ing dexiotropically. 



Fig. 45. — View of vegetative surface of egg with about 80 cells. The 

 mesentomeres have cHvided into two small cells, E' and E-, and 

 two large. Me' and Me-. 



Fig. 47. — Same egg as fig. 45, lateral view of D quadrant. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



Fig. 48. — Same oo;g as fig. 45, lateral view of C. quadrant. ■ 

 Fig. 49. — Lateral view of D quadrant in egg of about 86 cells. 2d^-^ is 

 dividing Ineotropically ; 2d-" and 2d-^'- have divided dexiotropically. 

 Fig. 50. — Lateral view of same egg as fig. 49, showing A quadrant. 



Plate XXVII, Fig. 5L — D quadrant, a lateral view. Me' and Me^ all dividing 



bilaterally. 

 Fig. 52. — Lateral view, B quadrant of same egg as fig. 49. 

 Fig. 53. — Upper pole view of egg of about 86 cells. The "apical" (la"'- 



ld"i) and "peripheral" (la"--ld''-) rosettes have been formed bj- 



Iseotropic cleavages. 

 Fig. 54. — Same egg as fig. 51, seen from side (C cjuadrant). 

 Fig. 56. — Upper pole view of an egg of approximatelj^ 106 cells. The basal 



cells, la'-', lb'=', Ic'^', have divided; ld'=' is dividing with spindle 



transverse to posterior arm of cross. The two inner jjosterior 



trochoblasts (Ic-', Id-') are dividing bilaterally. 

 Fig. 57. — Vegetative pole view of same egg as fig. 56. Completed division 



of Me', Me- into M'e', M-e- and m'z', m-z-. 

 Fig. 58. — Same egg as fig. 56, showing A and D cjuadrants on lateral view. 

 Fig. 59. — Same egg as fig. 56, principally B quadrant. 



Plate XXVIII, Fig. 60. — Same egg as fig. 56, lateral view of C quadrant. 



Fig. 61. — Lateral view, D quadrant, same egg as fig. 56. 



Fig. 62. — Upper pole -siew of egg slightly older than last series (over 115 

 cells). All the interior trochoblasts have divided, and the completed 

 transverse di\'ision of the basal cell of the posterior arm of the cross 

 is shown. 



Fig. 63. — Same egg as fig. 62, showing A quadrant on lateral view. 



Fig. 64. — Lateral view, same egg as fig. 62, B cjuadrant. 



Fig. 65. — Lateral view, same egg as fig. 62, C quadrant. 



Fig. 66. — Lateral view, same egg as fig. 62, D cjuadrant. 



Fig. 67. — Egg of about 125 cells, lateral view, C quadrant. 



Plate XXIX, Fig. 68. — Same egg as fig. 67, lateral view of A quadrant. 



Fig. 69. — Same egg as fig. 67, lateral view of B quadrant. 



Fig. 70. — Slightly later stage than fig. 67, lateral view of C quadrant. 



Fig. 71. — Entomeres and mesomeres from egg of o\'er 150 cells, seen from 

 vegetative pole. 



Fig. 72. — Entomeres and mesomeres of egg aljout stage of fig. 71. 



Fig. 73. — Entomeres and mesomeres, seen from vegetative pole of egg slightly 

 older than the two former stages. 



Fig. 74. — "\'egetative pole view of about same stage as fig. 73, showing the 

 overgrowth of the "secondarv" mesoblasts (ecto-mesoblasts, 3a-'", 

 3a-2ii, 3b="', 3b"") by other cells of the third quartet. 



Fig. 75. — L'pper pole view, about the same stage as fig. 74, showing trans- 

 verse splitting of the arms of the cross and division of outer trocho- 

 blasts. 



Plate XXX, Fig. 76. — Upper pole view of somewhat later stage than fig. 75. 



showing increase in breadth of cross area. 

 Fig. 77. — Lateral view of stage similar to fig. 75, showing large excretory 



cell (3c"") and neighboring cells. 

 Fig. 78. — Vegetative pole view of gastrula with closing blastopore, showing 



pointed anterior end and complete overgrowth of the ecto-mesoblast. 

 Fig. 79. — Somewhat older gastrula than preceding figure. 

 Fig. 80. — Optical section (parallel to ventral surface) of gastrula of about 



the stage shown in fig. 79. 



Plate XXXI (except figs. 81-S). Figs. 81-84. — Optical sections, similar in direc- 

 tion to that of fig. SO, through successively older gastrula^, showing 

 torsion of the enteron through increase in area of the left side (right 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



of figures). Fig. S4 represents a section taken tlirough a young 



veliger about the stage of tliat shown in fig. 104. 

 Fig. So. — Actual section through a gastrula similar in age to fig. 80 and in 



same plane. 

 Fig. S6. — Actual section (sagittal) through a gastrula about the age shown 



in fig. 95. 

 Fig. 87. — Actual section (about 30° to the right of the sagittal plane) 



through a young veliger slightly older than as shown in fig. 104. 



Plate XXXTI {except -fig. 94), Figs. 88-89.— Actual sections (nearly horizon- 

 tal) througli a veliger about the stage shown in fig. 105, showing 

 cerebral and pedal ganglia, pedal commissure and otocysts; also large 

 excretory cell on right side of larva and large enteric cell on same 

 side of enteron. 



Figs. 90-93. — Four successive horizontal actual sections through a veliger 

 slightly older than that shown in fig. 107. 



Fig. 94. — Nearly horizontal actual section through veliger of same age as 

 preceding series, showing nerve ring around oesophagus. On PI. 

 XXXI. 



Plate XXXIII, Fig. 95. — Gastrula, seen from right side, showing first indica- 

 tion of the first velar row (V'). 



Figs. 96-97. — Upper and lower sides respectively of gastrula of the same 

 age as shown in fig. 95. 



Figs. 98-99. — Lateral (right) and lower sides of a veliger slightly older than 

 that shown in figs. 96-97. 



Fig. 100. — Left side of gastrula somewhat older than that shown in the two 

 preceding figures. 



Plate XXXIV, Figs. 101-102.— Anterior and right-lateral views of larva mid- 

 way between gastral and veliger stages. The deep invagination of 

 the shell-gland (Sh.G.) has formed and the stomodseal pit (St.) is 

 well marked. 



Figs. 103-104. — Anterior and right-lateral views of a young veliger. The 

 shell-gland has opened outward, the foot (Ft.) is becoming evident 

 and the velar lobes are just beginning to appear. 



Fig. 105. — Veliger, seen from right side, somewhat older than the preceding 

 one, showing further development of velar lobes and foot, developing 

 shell, differentiation of enteron and larval musculature. 



Fig. 106. — Slightly older veliger than fig. 105, seen from right side. 



Plate XXXV, Figs. 107-108. — Dorsal and anterior views of the same veliger 

 somewhat older than fig. 106. The shell and the velar lobes show 

 considerable advance in development. 

 Figs. 109-110. — Right-lateral and dorsal views of the same veliger just 

 before hatching. The dotted lines represent the probable shape of 

 the posterior vesicle before shrinkage. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



THE FOSSIL LAND SHELLS OF BERMUDA.' 



BY ADDISON GULICK. 



Last summer (1903). through advantages offered by the new Bio- 

 logical Station in Bermuda, I was able to collect the shells on which 

 this paper is based. In the stud}^ of the material I owe much to Dr. 

 H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Xatural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



It will be necessaiy in the discussion of the fossils to compare them 

 with the species that are now native, in the looser sense, to the islands. 

 In drawing the line l^etween these and the snails supposed to have 

 been brought by commerce, I shall follow Dr. Pilsbry 's latest paper on 

 the ''Air-breathing ^lollusks of the Bermudas. "^ I shall also rule 

 out all the littoral species, including Truncatella, because the fossil 

 beds were not situated where such shells could be expected. 



The most unsatisfactory feature of work on Bcrmudian fossil land 

 shells is the difficult}' in determining the ages of the various deposits. 

 The rock of Bermuda is exclusively solidified dunes of calcareous sand, 

 and the soil is the rust-colored residue of the weathered rock. In 

 weathering, the surface of the rock becomes completely broken up 

 into pockets and crevices packed with the earth. It is estimated^ 

 that every inch of earth must represent eight or nine feet of rock eroded, 

 and thus when it is possil^le to judge of the average depth of soil formed 

 over a deposit, that depth can be made an index of the age of the 

 deposit. 



Probably the oldest good fossiliferous deposit that I examined is 

 collecting locality No. 807 (see Map No. 3j of the Bermuda Biological 

 Station, at a hard-stone quarry on the west side of Knapton Hill, 

 about midway between Hotel Frascati and "Devil's Hole." At this 

 point a layer of eight or ten inches of red earth containing shells was 

 covered by an ancient dune. The dune has become hard limestone, 

 and its top has been eroded until now the red earth in its pockets must 

 represent a layer averaging not less than six inched in thickness. The 

 series of Poecilozonites that we took from this bed is very incomplete, 

 and the fossils of all the genera are poorly preserved, but notwith- 

 standing this we are able to recognize at least eleven species and sub- 



^ Contributions from the Bermuda Biological Station for Research, No. 2. 



2 Trans. Conn. Acad., Yo\. X. 



3 A. E. Verrill, Trans. Conn. Acad., Vol. XI, p. 490. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



species. These are enough to identify its fauna with that of another 

 deposit, locahty No. 806 (see Map No. 2), where the shells are abundant 

 and well preserved, but with no external evidence by which to estimate 

 their age. This locality is another hard-stone quarry, where the 

 excavations have uncovered a number of crevices and a cavern of 

 considerable size. The shells are in stalagmitic conglomerate at the 

 mouth of the cavern, and in the crevices, and also in the earth that 

 fills certain of the pockets. They may represent a considerable period 

 of time, but there is no way to distinguish any difference in age. 



Another deposit at the same locality as the one last mentioned is a 

 horizontal band of slightly reddish rock about half-way up the face of 

 the quarry, and from two to three inches thick. This is part of the 

 rock out of which the cave and pockets were eroded, so that the shells 

 here are very much older than the others at No. 806; but here, again, 

 there is no basis for a comparison with the date of No. 807. The re- 

 mains here are obscure casts of Poecilozonites circumfirmatiis and of 

 what appear to be Vertigo and Carychium. 



I collected from three other beds in this neighborhood what seem to 

 represent the same formation as the pockets of No. 806. 



The first of these, locality No. 814, is a newly opened quarry just 

 south from Coney Island. A red-earth pocket [here contained a fine 

 series of Poecilozonites nelsoni, very large, but wanting the most ex- 

 treme examples of both the elevated and the depressed variations. 

 There are also fossiliferous conglomerates in caverns at this quarry, 

 but they are composed of gravel too fine to contain Poecilozonites 

 nelsoni. 



The best fossil specimens of Poecilozonites reinianus came from local- 

 ity No. 815, near Harrington House. They are noticeably larger than 

 the recent specimens. No. 816, near 815, but on the shore of Castle 

 Harbor, has large numbers of Poecilozonites bermudensis zonatus and 

 Poecilozonites reinianus, the former associated with Poecilozonites 

 nelsoni in a conglomerate. 



Bifidaria rupicola, found in the red earth of No. 806, may perhaps be 

 an importation subsequent to the formation of No. 807, and Strobilops 

 huhbardi, found at the same place, possibly may not have been a per- 

 manent resident; but we can safely assume that all the other species 

 from the above localities belong to the epoch of the red-earth streak 

 at No. 807. The remaining three deposits from which I collected are 

 clearly much more recent than No. 807. These are in sand pits, in 

 the nearly pure sand of partially solidified dunes. None of them have 

 any clear signs of red earth, either about them or overlying them. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



The shells at these places are so perfectly preserved that even the term 

 "semi-fossil" seems a misnomer for them. Probably the sand pre- 

 serves them by saturating the water with lime before it reaches them. 



One of these shell deposits, locality No. 818, on the land of Mr. Benja- 

 min Trott, in Tucker's Town, is only from 8 to 36 inches below the 

 siu-face. The P. nelsoni were mostly in the upper foot of the deposit, 

 where the bank is thoroughly solidified by the rain ; but a few inches 

 lower the sand is still loose enough to be scraped out with a strong hoe. 



The two localities last to be mentioned, Nos. 808 and 809, are essen- 

 tially ahke. They face the Devonshire marshes on the northwest 

 side — 808 near the north end and 809 close to the barracks. The sand 

 in these dunes appears to have drifted from near the present line of 

 the north shore — a consideration which may yet give a clue to their 

 age. 



The following are my records of fossil and semi-fossil shells in these 

 localities : 



Locality 807. 



PCECILOZOXITES NELSONI, 



" NELSONI CALLOSUS. 



" CIECUMFIRMATUS, | -r , 



,, r Intergraded. 



DISCREPANS. ' * 



EUCONULUS TURBINATUS. 

 ZONITOIDES ^nXUSCULUS. 



" BRiSTOLi, One specimen. 



Thysanophora hypolepta. 



SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS. 



Vertigo numellata. 



" MARKI? 



Carychium BERMUDENSE. 



Casts in the Rock, Locality 806. 



Pcecilozonites circumfirmatus. 



Vertigo. > 



Carychium? 



Cave and Pockets, Locality 806. 

 Pcecilozonites nelsoni. Both extremes in height of spire. 



" BERMUDENSIS ZONATUS. 



" REINIANUS. 



" CIRCUMFIRMATUS. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. . 409 



PCECILOZOXITES CUPULA. 

 EUCONULUS TURBINATUS. 



Thysanophora HYPOLEPTA. 

 SUCCINEA BERMUDENSIS. 

 Strobilops HUBBARDI. 

 BiFiDARiA RUPicoLA. One specimen. 

 Vertigo numellata. 



" marki. 

 Carychium BERMUDENSE. 



Locality 8I4. 



Pcecilozonites nelsoni, ) -r , , 



C In one pocket. 

 " reinianus. ) 



" nelsoni. In crevices. 



" BERMUDENSIS ZOXATUS, 1 



" REINIANUS, ! In stalagmitic conglom- 



" ciRCUMFiRMATUS, f erate. 



EuCONULUS TURBINATUS. J 



. Locality 815. 

 Pcecilozonites bermudensis zoxatus? Small fragments only. 



" REINIANUS. 



Locality 816. 

 Pcecilozonites nelsoni. 



" bermudensis zoxatus. 



" REINIANUS. (None kept in the collection.) 



EuCONULUS TURBINATUS. 



Locality 818 {Sand Pit). 



Pcecilozonites nelsoni callosus. 



" reinianus. 



" discrepans. 



euconulus turbinatus. 

 zonitoides bristoli. 

 succinea bermudensis. 

 BiFiDARiA SERViLis. One specimen. 

 Carychium ber:mudense. 



Locality 808 {Sand Pit). 



Pcecilozonites bermudensis zoxatus. 

 " reinianus, 




410 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April. 



PcECILOZOXITES CIRCUMFIRMATUS. 

 EUCONULUS TURBIXATUS. 

 SUCCINEA BERMUDEXSIS. 



BiFiDARiA RUPicoLA. Oiie Specimen. 



Carychium bermudexse. 



(PoLYGYRA microdoxta? One immature specimen, which may have 



crawled into the sand in recent times. We shall give it no fuiiher 



notice.) 



Locality 809 {Sand Pit). 



PCECILOZONITES BERMUDENSIS ZOXATUS. 

 " REINIANUS. 



" CIRCUMFIRMATUS. (None kept in collection.) 



SucciNEA BERMUDENSIS. (None kept in collection.) 

 Carychium bermudexse. 

 PupoiDES margixatus. One specimen. 



These lists include all the known fossils except Pacilozonites dalli. 

 Outside of Poecilozonites, the species that do not appear in deposit 

 No. 807 are: 



Strobilops hubbardi, 

 blfidaria rupicola. 

 " servilis. 



pupoides margixatus. 



The last two of these appear only in the sand pits, and are in all 

 probabiHty later importations. The first two, found at No. 806, may 

 also have arrived after No. 807 was covered up, but the fossils at No. 

 807 are so poorly preserved that we cannot presume upon the absence 

 of these species. Ignoring these doubts, we may combine and re- 

 arrange the lists from Nos. 807 and 806— the more ancient fossils — 

 mentioning after each species the habitat of its nearest relatives in 

 other countries, as follows: 



PcECILOZOXITES XELSOXI. 



" NELSONI CALLOSUS. 



" CUPULA. 



" BERMUDEXSIS ZOXATUS. 



" REINIANUS. 



" CIRCUMFIRMATUS. 



" DISCREPANS. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



EUCOXULUS TURBIXATUS. I 



ZONITOIDES BRISTOLI. j 



Vertigo numellata. I" Eastern North America. 



" MARKI. I 



Carychium bermudense. J 



^ZoNiTOiDES minusculus. North America and West Indies. 



^BiFiDARiA RUPicoLA. Florida, Cuba. 



^Strobilops hubbardi. Florida, Jamaica. 



Thysanophora hypolepta. West Indies. 



SucciNEA bermudensis. West Indies. 



Total, 17 forms, 14 of them probably peculiar to Bermuda. For 

 comparison we have the following recent species,' supposedly not im- 

 ported by man : 



Pcecilozonites bermudensis, ] 



" reinianus, i 



circumfirmatus, I Remnant of the fossil fauna. 



^Zonitoides minusculus, f- Seven species. 



Thysanophora hypolepta, 



succinea bermudensis, | 



^BiFIDARIA RUPICOLA. J 



"PupoiDES MARGiNATUs. North America, West Indies. 



^Thysanophora vortex, ] 



tolygyra microdonta, 



•'^BiFiDARiA SERViLis, \ West Indies. Five species. 



^BlFIDARIA JAMAICENSIS, I 



I 



Helicixa coxvexa. J 



Total, 13 species, 6 of them probably pecuhar to Bermuda. 



Dr. Pilsbry's conclusion, from the anatomy of Pcecilozonites, that the 

 oldest importations to Bermuda came from continental America, is thus 

 confirmed by a large maj ority of the fossil forms. Bermuda, at the time 

 of the No. 807 deposit, was characterized by not less than five genera 

 of continental affinities, of which at least one had been resident long 

 enough to have developed new generic characters and a respectable 

 diversity of species. The abundance of the individuals, too, and the 

 size and variability of some of the species, seem to show that the island 

 was not inhospital^le to continental genera at that epoch. There were 

 not only the large extinct species Pcecilozonites nelsoni and Pcecilozo- 

 nites cupula, but larger varieties also of Pcecilozonites hermuclensis and 



* Species not peculiar to Bermuda. 



* Species not peculiar to Bermuda. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Pcecilozonitcs reinianus than are now living. The largest specimens 

 even of Pcecilozonites circumfirmatus and Succinea hermudensis are 

 among the fossils. These snails must have found more food than there 

 is now on the uncultivated ground. There is also geologic evidence 

 that they belonged to a more prosperous epoch than the present. Prof. 

 Heilprin reports that in excavations for one of the docks, specimens 

 of Pcecilozonites nelsoni were brought up from a peat deposit at a depth 

 of forty feet below water. A rise of the land sufficient to put these 

 shells ten feet above sea-level (see Map No. 1) would multiply the land 

 area eight or ten times, changing it from a narrow ridge, hardly two 

 miles wide at its widest, into an elliptical area, including, it is true, some 

 large lagoons, but in all about ten miles across and more than twenty 

 miles long. A large, protected interior valley w^ould then receive the 

 fertile soil that is now washed into the lagoon by every storm. It 

 would not surprise me if the deposits at locality 807 should be shown 

 to date from the period of this Greater Bermuda, but a person need 

 hardly wait for this proof before supposing that the indigenous con- 

 temporaries of Pcecilozonites nelsoni were also characteristic of Greater 

 Bermuda. 



In spite of their e\ddent prosperity, I do not think it could be proved 

 that these snails lived under any densely shading vegetation. The 

 humidity at Bermuda makes such a shade less necessary for snails 

 than it is in many places. I have often seen Succinea hermudensis 

 clinging to grass and to trunks of trees in such situations that I imagine 

 an American summer day would have desiccated them. The tract 

 about Prospect Hill (No. 809) must have been desolate, unshaded land 

 when the hills were growing dunes, yet the sand here (localities 808 

 and 809) contains numerous well-developed specimens and quite a 

 variety of species. These must either have lived where they are found, 

 or else have been blown there from some place almost equally wind- 

 swept. 



The extinction of species that were able to prosper on those barren 

 parts of the island seems to me a strange occurrence. If, as I l^elieve 

 is probable, the sand for these dunes came from near the present north 

 shore, then the island must have had very nearly its present shape 

 and size when these snails were alive. Thus when the Greater Bermuda 

 sank, the change seems to have set new dunes in motion across this 

 section of the Lesser Bermuda; and Pcecilozonites zonatus, Cary- 

 chium hermudense and Euconulus turhinatus not merely survived the 

 subsidence, but even formed a considerable population on the parts of 

 the remaining island that were most damaged by the changing condi- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



tions. How many other species still survived in the less altered sec- 

 tions it is impossible to say. It is hardly possible to prove that even 

 the set of fossils from No. 806 belong to any earlier date. Indeed we 

 might draw an analogy between Bifidaria rupicola at No. 806, which 

 may be one of the later arrivals, and Bifidaria servilis at No. 818 and 

 Piipoides marginatus at No. 809, either of which we can hardly hesitate 

 to treat as recent arrivals. But however this may be, the sand-pit 

 deposits are against the supposition that the Carychiwn and its hardier 

 associates were exterminated merely by the increasing barrenness of 

 the island. We should be in a better position to discuss the other 

 causes if we knew whether these species survived till after the West 

 Indian arrivals had begun to take possession of the land. The West 

 Indies snails, especially Polygyra microdonta, of Bahama, are at present 

 much the commonest of the ''native" snails, and it may be that their 

 special fitness for the more barren land of the new Bermuda made them 

 deadly competitors to the old species. The newer formations at the 

 west end of the islands, which I had not the time to visit, may perhaps 

 be the ones in which to look for evidence on this question. 



Notes and Descriptions. 



Thysanophora vortex Pfr. 



Living animals quite abundant under stones; but I looked in ^•ain 

 for fossil specimens. Greater Antilles, Bahamas, Southern Florida. 

 Thysanophora hypolepta ' Shuttl.' Pils. 



I foimd more examples of this than of Z. 77iinusculus among the 

 fossils, but among the living snails Z. minusculus seems to be far more 

 abundant. It is supposed to be indigenous. 

 Polygyra microdonta Desh. 



Excluding importations from Europe, this species is the one now most 

 in evidence. It is partial to the coarse native grass, but is to be found 

 almost everywhere. I was surprised not to find any indubitable 

 specimens of this in the sand pits. I hope other collectors will look 

 for it. Bahamas. 

 Strobilops hubbardi Brown. 



An adult and an immature specimen, from locality 806. The adult 

 is somewhat larger than the usual size on, the continent. Alt. 1.2, 

 diam. 2.8 mm. Habitat, ther Gulf States and Jamaica. 



Vertigo numellata n. sp. PI. XXXVI, fig 6. 



Shell rimate, minute, elliptical or bluntly pupiform, yellowish- 

 corneous, faintly striate, of 5 rather convex whorls; the diameter 

 through the body whorl not much greater than that through the whorl 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apiil, 



preceding. A prominent, whitish, inflated ridge, appearing Hke a 

 second peristome, occurs behind the peristome. Aperture propor- 

 tionately more contracted than that of V. ovata; set with a parietal, 

 an angular and a columellar lamella; and with two palatal and a basal 

 fold. The palatal folds are prominent, the upper one slightly double- 

 topped, the lower one more immersed and entering spirally. The 

 parietal lamella is stout and blunt; the angular lamella smaller and 

 thinner; the columellar lamella and the basal fold low and blunt. 

 Peristome rather thin, expanded, and notched opposite the upper 

 palatal fold, as in V. ovata. 



Alt. 1.7, diam. .9 mm. 



In one specimen there appears a slight suprapalatal denticle. A 

 considerable number of smaller, more globose specimens seem to belong 

 to this species. One of these from locality 806 measures 1.4 x .9 mm, 



I have assumed that this species is more closely related to V. ovata 

 than to any of the species reported from the West Indies. 



Localities 806 and 807 ; the type from 806. 



This is the common fossil Vertigo. 

 Vertigo marki n. sp. PI. XXXVI, fig. 7. 



Shell rimate, ovate, yellowish-corneous, faintly striatulate; whorls 

 nearly 5, rather convex. Apex obtuse, but not rounded like that of 

 Vertigo numellata. The inflated ridge inconspicuous, whitish, crowded 

 close to the peristome. Aperture ovate, much longer than in Vertigo 

 numellata, set with four denticles, of which the parietal lamella is the 

 largest. The lower palatal fold denticular, smaller than that of Vertigo 

 numellata and less immersed; the upper palatal fold minute; and the 

 columellar lamella broad and low. The peristome is expanded, white, 

 strongly thickened within, hardly notched at the upper palatal fold. 



Alt. 1.9, diam. 1 mm. 



Named in honor of Dr. E. L. Mark, of Harvard, Director of the 

 Bermuda Biological Station for Research. 



This species is somewhat suggestive of V. tridentata, but is a little 

 slenderer, with a longer aperture, and a heavy white peristome. 



Locality 806; doubtful specimens from 807. 

 Bifidaria rupicola Say. 



One specimen each from localities 806 and 80S, and several recent 

 specimens. Dr. Pilsbry reminds us that the Bermudian form has a 

 thicker lip than the others of this species. Cuba, Florida. 

 Bifidaria servilis Gld. 



One specimen from locality 818, and a few recent. Cuba and other 

 West Indian islands. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Bifidaria jamaicensis C. B. Ad. 



The commonest of the recent Pupidse, but I failed to find it fossil. 

 Greater Antilles. 

 Pupoides marginatus Say. 



I got one indubitable specimen from locahty 809, but it went to 

 pieces in my hands. I found only two or three recent ones. Mr. 

 Owen Bryant, who was collecting at the same time, found a larger 

 number. Eastern and Central North America, and some West Indian 

 islands. 

 Carychium bermudense n. sp. PI. XXXVI, figs. 11, 12. 



Shell almost regularly tapering, corneous-white, imperforate, finely 

 striate; whorls about 5, increasing regularly, those of the spire very 

 convex, with deep sutures. Aperture quite obhque, obstructed by a 

 small parietal and a very minute, deeply placed columellar lamella. 

 Peristome broadly expanded and refiexed, thickened within by a white 

 callus, with a sHght groove on its front face, and developed inward 

 to form a prominence slightly above the middle of the outer margin 

 (near the position of the upper palatal fold in Bifidaria). 



Alt. 1.8, diam. .9 mm. 



This species is very dissimilar to the slender Carychium jamaicense. 

 The shape of the aperture allies it more nearly to Carychium exiguum 

 of North America, but its heavy peristome is quite its own. 



It is one of the most abundant fossil species, occurring in the red 

 earth of locaUties 806 and 807, and even in the sand that fills the larger 

 shells in the sand pits. 



Poecilozonites nelsoni (Bid.). 



Ilijalina nelsoni Bid., Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., XI, 1S75, p. 78. 



P. nelsoni Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18S8, p. 290. 



P. nelsoni v. Mart., Sitzungsber. Ges. Nat. Freunde, Berlin, 1889, p. .:;U1. 



The typical form of this species is, I suppose, the large, moderately 

 elevated form. This is represented among my specimens from locality 

 814, where the variation in dimensions is as follows: 



Alt. 29 Diam. 39 mm. 



28 37 



27 41 



27 40 



26 35 



25 39 



23.5 36 



23 41.5 

 23 (estimated) 35 



The way these lay, piled together in a little pocket, compels the 

 supposition that they lived at about the same time, and their varia- 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



tions in outline show what may occur in a single intergenerant colony. 

 The specimens from locahty 806 show even greater differences, of 

 which the following are the extremes: 



I should like to suggest the name discoides, merely as a convenient 

 term by which to know the variation represented by the last two shells 

 (PI. XXXVI, fig. 4). I must say, however, that this suggestion 

 would be unfortunate if it resulted in the division of the series ob- 

 tained from locality 814. It seems to me, rather, that some physio- 

 logical peculiarity has destroyed the diagnostic value of the elevation 

 of the spire. The upper whorls differ less than the lower, and in the 

 most elevated forms the suture of the later whorls is much below the 

 keel of the preceding whorl, as if the slant of the spiral had been 

 al^normally diverted downward. 

 Poecilozonites nelsoni var. callosus n. var. PI. XXXVI, fig. 5. 



Shell smaller than the typical form, shiny, with heavy ribbed stria), 

 colored with a broad yellowish-brown peripheral band on a white 

 ground. Whorls a trifle more than nine, increasing regularly and very 

 gradually. The suture does not change its character nor become de- 

 flected from the peripheral line of the preceding whorl. The usual 

 ])eripheral angle is almost obsolete. The base has a stronger angle 

 about the umbilical perforation than is usual in the species. The 

 peristome is greatly thickened on the inside from 1 mm. at the suture 

 to fully 2 mm. near the columella. A prominent callosity covers the 

 parietal wall of the aperture. 



Alt. 24, diam. 33 mm. 



The combination of small size and large numl^er of whorls is charac- 

 teristic. The ratio of height to diameter is more constant than in 

 the typical form, and the tendency to produce the callosity is very 

 marked. 



Type from locality 818, others from 818 and 807. 



The stability of the variety, occurring as it docs in the oldest and 

 the latest formations, is the most interesting thing about it. It is also 

 my excuse for regarding such slight distinctions in a reniarkal^ly \'ari- 

 able species. 



I suppose the color patterns of Poecilozonites nelsoni were essentially 

 the same as those on the living Poecilozonites bermudensis. For ex- 

 ample, the type specimen of collosus jirobalily had a dark lirown band 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



on a background of a yellowish cuticular color. The depressed speci- 

 men which is figured has traces of a subperipheral band, a supra- 

 peripheral line, and radial flaming above this fine. This flamed pat- 

 tern appears in several of the flat specimens. 



Poecilozonites cupula n. sp. PI. XXXVI, fig. 2. 



Shell sohd, dome-shaped, with somewhat flattened base, perforate, 

 strongly striate; pale, shiny-corneous, with subsutural and subper- 

 ipheral bands of darker color, and faint traces of two narrow bands 

 on the periphery. Whorls 7|, a little convex, increasing slowly; tho 

 last vaguely angulate at the periphery. The aperture is somewhat 

 quadrangular on account of the straight, vertical columella and the 

 peripheral angle. The peristome is simple, thin, ^-ith the columellar 

 margin reflexed. 



Alt. 13 Diam. 16 mm. 



The last specimen has 8f whorls. 



The type was selected as the best-preserved specimen, not as the 

 most representative example. The majority of the specimens have 

 a more roimded base and periphery, giving the peristome a more oval 

 contour. The height of the shell and the absence of a keel distinguish 

 it readily from P. bermudensis zonatus, and the very round dome 

 and less angulate periphery separate it from immature specimens of 

 nelsoni. 

 Poecilozonites dalli n. sp. PI. XXXVI, fig. l. 



Shell elevated, with roimded apex and convex base, perforate. Its 

 surface is polished, with incremental lines less pronounced than those 

 of P. cupula; milky-white, with a yellowish-brown band below the 

 periphery and a Hne above the periphery. The first four whorls are 

 translucent whitish. Whorls 7^ ; all but the final whorl are flat as if 

 keeled, that one has a blunt peripheral ridge, below which it is deeply 

 rounded. The aperture is quite oblique, round-lunate. The peris- 

 tome is simple, except at the columella, which it joins without an angle, 

 but the colunaellar margin is reflexed, partly covering the perforation. 



Alt. 8.5 Diam. 7.3 mm. 



27 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Another specimen has the height 10, diam. 7 mm., and is composed 

 of 9 whorls. It shows more of the brown and less of the white color. 



The extreme variability of P. cupula leaves it debatable whether 

 this may not be a dwarf race of that species. 



No specimens of this form were found last summer, and it is through 

 the courtesy of Dr. William H. Dall of the National Museum, that I 

 am able to describe and figure it. The specimens came to him without 

 labels, so that we are left to conjecture their age. The slender specimen 

 is so glossy and brightly colored that Dr. Dall doubts whether it can 

 be a fossil, but it seems to me the simpler hypothesis to suppose that 

 it was preserved in the sand in the same manner as the type of P. nelsoni 

 callosus, which it so closely resembles in color and polish. The shell 

 sand seems to be a complete protection from destructive agents. On 

 this hypothesis it had originally about the color of Pcecilozonites ber- 

 mudensis. 

 Pcecilozonites bermudensis Pfr. 



Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, p. 289; 1889, p. 85. 



The typical variety seems to be of recent origin. It is distinguished 

 from the fossil by a less rounded upper surface, less flattened apex, 

 larger umbilical perforation, and usually smaller number of whorls. 

 My largest specimen I found on Rabbit Island, Harrington Sound, 

 buried under drift sand at some time previous to the cultivation of 

 the island. It measures alt. 13, diam. 24.5 mm. The largest and 

 smallest living mature shells measure as follows : 



Alt. 14.5 Diam. 20. mm. 

 14 22 



10 16.5 



An average fully adult specimen measures : 



Alt. 11 Diam. 20 Umb. 1.7 mm. 



and has a trifle more than 7 whorls. 

 Pcecilozonites bermudensis var. zonatus Verr. PI. XXXVI, fig. 3. 



This differs from the type of the species in possessing an almost 

 uniformly curved upper contour line, an almost flat apex, and a more 

 constricted umbihcus. The keel is distinct, as in the recent form. 

 Whorls 7f . The aperture is surrounded by callous thickenings as in 

 P. nelsoni callosus. Alt. 13.5, diam. 23, umb. 1 mm. 



Specimens come from localities Nos. 806, 808, 814, 816 and 809. 



The extremes from locality No. 808 are : 



Alt. 16 Diam. 22.5 mm. 



15 25 



12.5 20.5 Umb. 1 mm. wide. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Thus the smallest adult is quite equal to the average recent shells. 

 A few selected specimens of the fossil and recent shells can hardly be 

 distinguished. Many of the fossils do not have the callosity. 



Locality 816 has great quantities of these shells so firmly cemented 

 together that most of them are worthless as specimens. They have 

 the peculiar spheroidal upper surface, but the perforation is wider 

 than in the series from locality 808 — not so wide, however, as in the 

 recent. Several specimens here occur below some fragments of Poecilo- 

 zonites nelsoni in stalagmite, apparently showing that they were there 

 previous to the extinction of nelsoni. 



Broken and immature specimens from locality 808 show that the 

 umbilicus was not much narrower than that of the recent variety imtil 

 the last whorl had commenced to grow. The peculiar contour is also 

 less noticeable prior to the last whorl. Thus in their smaller number of 

 whorls, their less rounded contour, and their larger umbihcus, the 

 present snails seem like an imdeveloped or degenerate race of the 

 former species. 



It is possible that this fossil variety is what Pfeiffer {Monographia, 

 I, p. 80) mistook for Helix ochrolcuca Fer. 



Pcecilozouites reinianus Pfr. 



Helix reiniana Pfeiffer, Malak. BL, XI, 1863, p. 1. 



P. reinianus Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 188S, p. 290; 1889, p. 85. 



I found this species in every deposit examined except No. 807. 

 Further search would doubtless show it there also. At locality 815 

 many fine specimens were embedded in stalagmite. They show the 

 typical color-pattern, with the dark marks changed as usual to reddish, 

 and the lighter ground to ivory-yellow. 



The largest specimen from No. 815 measured.... Alt. 7 Diam. 13 mm. 



The largest from No. 808 _ __.... 12 



The largest from No. 806 -. 11.5 



The largest from the pocket at No. 814 - — . 11 



The largest recent, lent by Mr. Bryant 6 11.3 



My largest recent 5 10.3 



From Town Hill (locality 819) come some good specimens of var. 

 qoodei Pils, Examples of these measure: 



Alt. 4 Diam. 10 Umb. 4 mm. 



3.5 9.3 3.4 



3.7 10 4 



The species is not so uniformly common as Pcccilozoniies circiim- 

 prmatus, but is very abundant in some places, for example, near 

 locality 806. It would be interesting to learn whether its place in the 

 economy of nature is different from that of the following species. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Poecilozonites circumfirmatus Redf. 



Helix circwmfirmata Redfield, Ann. Lye. X. H. of X. Y., VI, p. 16. 

 Pcecilozonites circumfirmatus Pilsbry, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, p. 

 291. 



The modern variety comes from both formations at locaUty 806, 

 and from 814 and 808. Those from locahty 808 are some of them more 

 keeled than is now usual. A series of poor specimens from No. 807 

 seem to bridge the gap from these to var. discrepans. 



This species has lost less in size than the others of its genus. My 

 largest fossil, coming from locahty 808, has alt. 7, diam. 12 mm. My 

 largest recent shell has alt. 7, diam. 11.5 mm. I think the fossils 

 average larger than the adults of the recent shells, but it is not 

 easy to eliminate the immature of either. 



Poecilozonites circumfirmatus vp- discrepans Pfr. 

 Helix discrepans Pfr., Malak. Bl., 1S64, p. 1. 



Localities 807, 818 and two specimens of doubtful identity from 806. 

 Some from 818 are extremely flat and carinate, one of them having 

 alt. 4.8, diam, 10.5 mm. If this were the only locality that yielded 

 the variety it would undoubtedly rank as a distinct species. 



I should like to raise the question wdiether Poecilozonites discrepans 

 is not one of the extinct varieties. I believe it has not been treated 

 as such heretofore, but none were foimd last summer any more recent 

 than those from this sand pit. 



Eaconulus turbinatus n. sp. PI. XXXVI, figs. 8, 9, 10. 



Shell acutely conic, with contour very slightly convex; minutely per- 

 forate, thin, glistening yellowish-corneous, closely striate, and sculptured 

 with microscopic spirals. Apex rounded off abruptly. Whorls 7^, 

 not convex, narrow, the last strongly angulate at the periphery. 

 Suture simple, hardly impressed. Base rather flat, not excavated. 

 Aperture almost quadrangular, but with the angle at the columella 

 indefinite. Columella slightly curved, the columellar margin narrowly 

 reflexed. Alt, 3.4, diam. 2.8 mm, (from locality (807) ; diam. 3 mm. 

 (from locahty 808). 



From locahties Nos. 807, 806, 814, 816, 808, and 818. 



The above description is a composite. The general form is described 

 from the specimen from locality 807, but the sculpture is that of the 

 best specimen from 806, which should, perhaps, be considered the type, 

 and the base and aperture are taken from the specimen from 808. 

 From 814 comes the longitudinal section of one 3.8 x 2.8 mm., with an 

 unusually convex contour. 



The genus Euconuhis is, of course, not wholly satisfactory for this 

 species. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Zonitoides minusculus Binn. 



Locality 807, and recent. Its abundance in the one deposit and 

 absence in the others is a Httle surprising. 

 Zonitoides bristoli n. sp. PI. XXXVI, fig. 13. 



Shell resembling Zonitoides minusculus in general form, but much 

 smaller, only moderately umbilicate, white, costulate, and densely 

 sculptured with spiral lines ; composed of 3 convex whorls. Apex 

 somewhat elevated. Aperture lunate, the outer and basal margin 

 more imiformly curved than in Zonitoides minusculus, and the preced- 

 ing whorl cutting out a greater arc. Peristome simple, thin. Costulse 

 regularly spaced, coinciding with growth lines. The spaces between 

 them crowded with fine striae. A close, regular, spiral sculpturing 

 crosses these lines and gives the costulse a slightly tubercular appear- 

 ance. 



Alt. .7 Diam. 1.17 mm. 



Named in honor of Dr. C. L. Bristol, of New York University, Associate 

 Director of the Bermuda Biological Station for Research. 



One specimen from each of localities 807 and 818; the type from the 

 latter place. 



Succinea bermudensis Pfr. 



I S. bermudensis Pfr., P. Z. S., 1857, p. 110; Monographia, IV, p. 817. 

 S. barbadensis Pilsbry, Trans. Conn. Acad., X, p. 502. 



Localities 807, 806, 818, 80S, 809 and recent. In the absence of alco- 

 hohc specimens of S. barbadensis I have given up that name and re- 

 turned provisionally to the name bermudensis. Its presence as a fossil 

 makes it not unlikely that it may be proved distinct from S. barbadensis. 

 This is another species that was formerly larger than now. The largest 

 fossil, from locahty 808, measures alt. 13, diam. 7 mm. The largest 

 out of 30 recent specimens lent by Mr. Bryant has alt. 12, diam. 6.3 mm. 

 Helicina convexa Pfr. 



If this species were indigenous we could expect it to be as abundant 

 formerly as it is now. Instead of that it seems to be entirely absent 

 from the beds I examined. The evidence seems to me strong that its 

 real home is elsewhere. 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Map 1. 




1004. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



Maj:) 2. 



C« 00 00 CC 00 



Map of a part of Bermuda, with marginal indications of the latitude and longitude of 



Jcollecting stations. 




424 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Map 3. 



—807 

 —819 



—808 

 -809 



I I 



— c 



llap of a part of Bermuda, with marginal indications of the latitude and longitude of 



collecting stations. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



Reference to Plate XXXVI. 



Figures 2 to 5 are natural size; the others are variously enlarged. 



Plate XXXVI Fig. 1. — Pcecilozonites dalli. 



Fig. 2. — Paecilozonites cupula. Locality 806. 



Fig. 3. — Poecilozonites bermudensis zonatus. Locality 808. 



Fig. 4. — Poecilozonites nelsoni form discoides. Locality 806. 



Fig. 5. — Pcecilozonites nelsoni callosus. Locality 818- 



Fig. 6. — Vertigo numellata. Locality 806. 



Fig. 7. — Vertigo marki. Locality 806. 



Fig. 8. — Euconulus turbinatus. Section from compact rock, locality 814. 



Fig. 9. — Euconulus turbinatus. Locality 806. 



Fig. 10. — Euconulus turbinatus. Locality 808. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Carychium bermudense. Locality 806. 



Fig. 13. — Zonitoides bristoli. Locality 818. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Apirl, 



April 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Seventy-six persons present. 



The deaths of Edwin Sheppard, April 7, and E. W. Clark, April 9, 

 members, were announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the follow- 

 ing titles had been offered for pubHcation : 



"A Monograph of the Genus Dendrocincla Gray," by Harry C. 

 Oberholser (April 8). 



''Post-Glacial Nearctic Centers of Dispersal for Reptiles," by Arthur 

 Erwin Brown (April 11). 



Dr. E. G. Conklin made an illustrated communication on the earli- 

 est differentiations of the egg, with special reference to the mechanism 

 of heredity and evolution. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: Everett F. Phillips, Herbert 

 Guy Kribs, Henry R. M. Landis, M.D. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1904.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



A REVISION OF THE MAMMALIAN GENUS MACROTUS. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



Dui'ing the preparation of this paper a series of one hundred and 

 eighty-five specimens have been examined, seventy-six preserved as 

 skins, the remainder being in alcohol. This interesting collection, 

 representing the material of this genus preserved in the leading Ameri- 

 can institutions, was from the following collections: ninety-two from 

 the Biological Survey of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, fifty 

 from the U. S. National Museum, thirty-one from the American Mu- 

 sevmi of Natural History, five from the Field Columbian Museum, 

 and the remainder from the collection of the Academy. The author 

 wishes to thank Drs. C. Hart Merriam, J. A. Allen and D. G. Elliot, 

 and Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr., of the above institutions, for their kindness 

 in permitting the use of specimens, and also for replies to inquiries 

 regarding the same. 



MACROTUS Gray.' 



1843. Macrotus Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1S43, p. 21. Type, Macrotus 



waterhousii Gray. 

 1855. Macrotus Wagner, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 639. 



1858. Macrotus Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, p. 116. 



1859. Macrotus Baird, Rep. U. S. and Mexican Boundary Survey, Vol. II, 

 Pt. ii, Mamm., p. 3. 



1860. Macrotus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2" serie, XII, p. 486. 

 1864. Macrotus H. Allen, Monograph Bats N. Amer., p. 1. 



1864. Macrotus Gundlach, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 

 1864, p. 382. 



1865. Macrotus Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., Berlin, 1865, 

 p. 503. 



1875. Macrotus Coues and Yarrow, Rep. Expl. Surv. W. 100th Merid., V, 

 p. 80. 



1878. Macrotus Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 463. 



1879. Macrotus Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 36. 



1890. Macrotus H. Allen. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXVIII, p. 73. 



1891. Otopterus Lydekker, in Flower and Lydekker, Mammals Living and 

 Extinct, p. 673. 



1894. Macrotus Allen, Monograph Bats N. Amer., 1893, p. 33. 



1898. Otopterus Merriam. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XII, p. 18. 



1899. Otopterus Nelson, North American Fauna, No. 14, p. 18. 



1901. Otopterus EUiot, Field Columb. Mus. Publ., Zool. ser.. Vol. II, p. 419. 

 1904. Macrotus Miller, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 344. 



' As the author does not consider that Macrotis Dejean invalidates this name, 

 he has retained the term applied by Gray. The name Macrotus Leach {Syst. 

 Cat. Spec. Indig. Mamm. Birds Brit. Mtis., 1816, p. 5) is a nomen nudum, and 

 therefore has no standing. For discussion of the M acrotus-Otopterus question 

 see True and Allen (Allen, Monogr. Bats N. Amer., 1893, p. 33). 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Generic Characters. — Head long; muzzle conical; nose-leaf simple, 

 erect, lanceolate; nose-pad rounded; nostrils elongate, distinct: lower 

 lip wdth a triangular pad bearing a longitudinal groove; ears large, 

 imited; tragus lanceolate; uropatagium large; tail long, projecting 

 somewhat beyond the posterior margin of the uropatagium, which 

 completely envelopes it but the free apex; calcanea short and stout. 

 Skull with the rostrum moderately long, considerably lower than the 

 brain-case. Dentition i. ^^, c. ^, p. I^g, m. ^^. Median upper 

 incisors chisel-shaped, long; lateral upper incisors w^eak. 



Distribution. — Cuba, Haiti, Jamaica and a number of the Bahama 

 Islands; Guatemala north to southern California and Arizona, but 

 apparently not reaching the east coast of the mainland except in Yuca- 

 tan. 



History. — ^The genus Macrotus was founded by Gray on M. water- 

 housii from Haiti, and referred by him to the Phyllostomina close to the 

 genus Macrophyllum. Wagner, in the supplement to Schreber's monu- 

 mental work, placed Gray's genus in the Megadermota with Megader- 

 ma, Rhinopoma, Nycteris and Nyctophilus. In 1858 Baird described 

 the Californian M. californicus, and, probably following Wagner, con- 

 sidered the genus a member of the subfamily Megadermota. Saussure, 

 in 1860, in describing the Mexican M. mexicanus, referred the genus to 

 the group Phyllostomides, but Harrison Allen, in 1864, followed Wagner 

 and Baird, and considered it a member of the Megadermatida;. Gund- 

 lach, in 1864, separated the small Cuban type as M. minor, while Peters, 

 in 1865, considered the genus a member of his group Vampyri. Coues 

 and Yarrow, in 1875, placed the genus in the family Phyllostomatidce, 

 in the section Vampyri, of which Dobson later placed it. In both of 

 these papers M. californicus, mexicanus and waterhousii were consid- 

 ered identical. On the basis of several specimens from Guatemala, 

 Dobson separated a species which he called M. hocourtianus. Harrison 

 Allen, in 1890, separated a form of the genus from the State of Jahsco, 

 Mexico, as M. hullcri, comparing it with M. californicus; the same 

 author, in the 1894 edition of his Monograph, defended his statement 

 made in 1864, that Af . californicus was distinct from the West Indian 

 waterhousii. Lyddeker, in 1891, believing that the name Macrotis 

 Dejean invahdated Macrotus Gray, proposed the name Otopterus to 

 replace Gray's term. This action was criticised later by True and 

 Harrison Allen, who held that Macrotis was little used and in construc- 

 tion differed from Macrotus. 



General Relations. — As little satisfactory material of the alhed genera 

 is available, no critical remarks as to the relationship of the genu? can 




1904.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



be made. It is without doubt a member of the present Phyllosto- 

 matinos, but that it is not worthy of separation from some of the types 

 of this division is not so certain. The genus Lonchorhina does not 

 appear to the author to be as close an ally as Dobson's work would 

 lead one to suppose; and taking the allied genera broadly, Macrotus 

 appears to be a very distinct type, not differentiated as strongly by 

 skull characters as by some external developments. 



Key to the Forms. 



a. — General size medium or large; skull 'with the interorbital region 

 sUghtly and roundly depressed. 

 b. — Ear medium or large (averaging 26 to 28 millimeters in length) ; 

 skull with the rostrum rather heavy; interorbital region 

 broad, 

 c. — Foot quite robust, toes strong; West Indian forms. 

 d. — General color ochraceous brown or pale umber. 



e. — First lower prem.olar subquadrate in basal out- 

 line; anterior width of the rostrum equal to 

 the interorbital space. 

 /. — Upper tooth-row heavy and strongly crowd- 

 ed; skull large, 26.8 inm. in length, 



waterhousii Gray. 

 ff. — ^Upper tooth-row narrow and not strongly 

 crowded; skull medium, not more than 

 24.5 mm. in length, 



w. jamaicensis n. subsp. 

 ee. — First lower premolar elongate-elliptical in basal 

 outline; anterior width of the rostrum less 

 than the interorbital width, 



w. compressus n. subsp. 

 dd. — General color dark umber or dark reddish-brown, 



w. minor (Gundlach). 



_cc. — Foot rather slender, toes weak; Mexican and Central 



American forms. 



d, — Skull large (averaging 24.8 mm. in length); second 



upper premolar heavy, . mexicanus Saussure. 



d,d. — Skull medium (averaging 23 mm. in length) ; second 



upper premolar rather weak and short, 



m. hidleri (H. Allen). 



hb. — Ear exceptionally large (averaging over 30 mm. in length) ; 



skull quite slender with the rostrum and interorbital region 



narrow, calif ornicus Baird. 



aa. — General size quite small; skull with the interorbital region very 



broad and strongly depressed, pygmceus n. sp. 



Macrotus waterhousii Gray. 



1843. Macrotus Waterhousii Gray, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1843, p. 21. 



[Hayti.] 

 1855. M\acrotus'\ Waterhousii Gray, Suppl. Schreber's Saugthiere, V, p. 640. 



[Hayti and Jamaica.] (Part.) 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1S65. M[acrohis] Waterhousii Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 

 Berlin, 1865, p. 503. 



1878. Macrotus waterhousii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 464. 

 [Haiti; St. Domingo; Jamaica.] (Part.) 



1879. Macrotus waterhousii Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 38. 

 (Part.) 



1896. Macrotus ivaterhousei Elliot. Field Columbian Museum Publication, 

 Zool. ser., Vol. I, p. 82. [San Domingo City, San Domingo.] 



Type Locality. — Haiti . 



Distribution. — Apparently restricted to the island of San Domingo 

 and Haiti. 



General Characters. — Size large; skull large; rostrum as wide ante- 

 riorly as the interorbital space; teeth rather hea\y and robust, the 

 first lower premolar thick, almost quadrate in basal outline; ears 

 whitish basally. 



Head. — Ears large, high; apex rounded yet with the angle apparent; 

 internal margin with the lower half strongly arcuate, the upper half 

 very slightly curved; internal ridge low, slight; external margin 

 slightly arcuate, a slight incision separating a small basal portion; 

 transverse plicae distinct, but not strongly marked ; tragus elongate- 

 lanceolate, apex acute, internal margin straight with a shght apical 

 emargination, external margin straight with a slight basal accessory 

 lobule ; connecting membrane distinct but not high. Eye medium in 

 size. Nose-leaf moderately high, acute, the margins of the pad free 

 and rounded; nostrils elliptical, directed inward and downward. 

 Lower lip with the pad with a distinct division. 



Ldmbs. — Forearm moderately long, considerably and e^-enly arcuate, 

 thumb large and comparatively free. Femora, tibiae and feet rather 

 long and heavy. 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes rather heavy; propatagium 

 rather large basally, extending to the thumb as a subequal strip of 

 membrane with the margin totally free. Fur very long and silky, 

 thin on the interscapular and abdominal regions and practically absent 

 from the face, but otherwise regularly distributed; base of ears w4th 

 a short growth of fine woolly hairs; muzzle wdth a number of long 

 setiform hairs ; volar membranes almost unhaired. 



Color. — Above Prout's brown, the basal portion of the fur white, 

 latter exposed on the thinly furred interscapular region ; posterior 

 margin and short fur on the basal portion of the ears white ; below fawn 

 color, wdth a silvery "bloom" caused by the silvery- white tips of the 

 hairs. Volar and interfemoral membranes seal-brown; ears bistre. 



Skull.' — Robust and strongly built ; brain-case rounded, moderately 

 elevated ; rostrum considerably constricted Brain-case evenly vault- 




1904.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



ed, the longitudinal curve low, sagittal crest distinct and sharp; inter- 

 orbital region sHghtly constricted; zygomata prominent, shghtly more 

 expanded posteriorly than anteriorly. Rostrum attenuate, the ante- 

 rior width (taken behind the canines) not less than the interorbital 

 width, the dorsal outhne continuing, but less distinctly, the regular 

 descending course from the siunmit of the brain-case; palate shghtly 

 vaulted, posterior portion with parallel sides, the median cleft with a 

 sub-truncate apex; pterygoids very slender apically, moderately 

 flaring. Mandible rather heavy, the rami strong ; ascending rami stout, 

 the coronoid process acute-angulate, condylar process broad but low; 

 angle strong, recurved, unguical in character, distinctly bent laterally.' 

 Teeth.— Medi&n pair of upper incisors slender, projecting, with a 

 narrow cutting edge; lateral upper incisors small, low, crowded, the 

 external face distinctly channeled ; upper canines projecting anteriorly, 

 shghtly recurved; first upper premolar elongate-elliptical in basai 

 outline, advanced upon and crowding the canine, cusp anterior, low 

 and followed by a jagged cutting edge and distinct cingulum; second 

 upper premolar oblong in basal outline, anterior section narrowed 

 considerably, cusp distinct, subcaninif orm ; first upper molar sub- 

 quadrate, the paracone-metacone ridge distinct and with the two arms 

 distinctly acute at the metacone, protocone as a low blunt ridge, hypo- 

 cone almost obsolete, cingulum very weak; second upper molar similar 

 to the first in character, but larger, distinctly quadrate and with the 

 paracone more apparent than in the first molar; third upper molar 

 strongly transverse and equal to the other molars in width, paracone 

 strongly developed. Lower incisors narrow, compressed, strongly 

 crowded between the canines, cutting edges faintly bilobate; lower 

 canines rather strongly recurved; first lower premolar subquadrate in 

 basal outhne, advanced upon and strongly crowding the canine, cusp 

 rather low and broad; second lower premolar very similar to the first 

 premolar in basal outline but smaller and narrower, cusp rather sharp 

 and rectangulate, cingulum quite distinct; third lower premolar sub- 

 quadrate in basal outline, broad posteriorly, equal to the second pre- 

 molar in size, cusp and cingulum much as in the second premolar; 

 lower molars all longitudinal in basal outhne, the third smaller than 

 the others, the para- proto- metaconid group less distinct in the first 

 than m the others, the hypo-entoconid group weaker and less distinct 

 m the third than in the other molars. 



Measurements.—Adult male (from dried skin): Length of head and 

 body 62 mm.; ear 25; tragus 8.1; forearm 52; thumb 14.5; third 

 digit 92.5; tibia 21; foot 15.5; greatest width of ear 17. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Skull of adult male : Total length 26.8 mm. ; greatest zygomatic 

 width 12.3 ; interorbital width 4.9 ; height at base of second premolar 4 ; 

 height of brain-case 9.3; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygo- 

 mata 10; width of palatal constriction 2.3; length of palate from an- 

 terior foramina 11 ; width of palate including teeth 8.1 ; greatest length 

 of mandible 17.3. 



Remarks.- — True M. waterhousii can readily be distinguished by the 

 character given in the key. From the mainland forms the heavier 

 posterior limbs and the stronger skull and teeth will distinguish it. 

 From tv. minor the Haitian form can readilj^ be separated by the paler 

 coloration as well as the much greater size; from iv. jamaicensis by the 

 larger size and heavier teeth; from w. compressus by the broader 

 rostrum as w^ell as the subquadrate first lower premolar. 



Specimens Examined. — One skin and skull : San Domingo City, San 

 mingo. (Field Columbian Museum.) 

 Macrotus waterhousii jamaicensis n. subsp. 



1851. Macrotus Waterhousii Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, p. 295, 



PI. 6, fig. 2. [Jamaica.] (Not of Gray.) 

 1878. Macrotus waterhousii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 464. 

 [Haiti; St. Domingo; Jamaica.] (Part.) 



Type.—MvXi ? ; Spanishtown, Jamaica. No. -^^'f^^, U. S. Na- 

 tional Museum. Collected by William Thomas March. 



Distribution. — The island of Jamaica, where according to Gosse 

 {vide supra) it is one of the commonest bats. Osborn, in Dobson (vide 

 supra), states that "when inhabiting houses these bats always live in 

 the cellars below ground, they are never found in the roofs." 



General Characters. — Similar to the Haitian M. waterhousii, but 

 differing in the duller coloration, the smaller skull and narrower and 

 weaker upper tooth-row. 



Head. — Ear quite large, much as in M. waterhousii, but the size is 

 greater, and the transverse pHcse more distinct ;- connecting membrane 

 rather high and with a distinct central emargination ; tragus as in M. 

 toaterhousii, but the apex is blunter. Nose-leaf and nose-pad broad, 

 the leaf acuminate with the apex rather broad and blmit. Lower hp 

 with the pad trigonal, the median cleft deep and very distinct. 



Limbs. — The forearm and tibia are structurally as in M. waterhousii, 

 but of sHghtly larger size; the thumb and foot are, on the other hand, 

 of smaller size. Calcanea short and stout. Tail distinctly projecting 

 beyond the interfemoral membrane. 



Fur. — Essentially as in M. waterhousii. 



2 This is hardly visible in the type skin, but quite distinct in alcoholic speci- 

 mens. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Color. — Above Prout's bro^^^l, the hair with sUghtly more than the 

 basal half white. Below between drab and wood brown, the hair 

 with the basal half white. Ears and uropatagium Front's bro^Ti, 

 endopatagium, mesopatagium and the greater portion of the ecto- 

 patagium clove brown. 



Skull. — Siinilar to that of M. icaterhousii, but slightly smaller. 

 Teeth. — Similar to M. icaterhousii, but narrower and not strongly 

 crowded ; second upper premolar separated from the first premolar by 

 a distinct space. 



Measurements. — Type: Total length 90.2 mm.; head and body 63.2; 

 ear 23; greatest width of ear 16; tragus 8.5; forearm 54.5; thumb 14.1; 

 third digit 92; tibia 23.5; foot 13; tail 27. 



Average of series: Total length [10] 93.8 mm. (90.2-103); head and 

 body [10] 60.6 (57-67) ; head [9] 26 (25.5-27.5) ; ear [10] 26.3 (23-29) ; 

 greatest width of ear [10] 18.5 (16-20.5); tragus [10] 8.8 (8-9.5); fore- 

 arm [10] 53.4 (52-54.5); thumb [10] 13.4 (12-15); third digit [10] 90.3 

 (88-94); tibia [10] 22.3 (21.5-24); calcaneum [9] 10.4 (9.2-12); foot 

 [10] 13.6 (12.2-16); tail [10] 33.1 (27-36). 



Type skull: Greatest zygomatic width 12.2 mm.; interorbital width 

 4.3; height at base of second premolar 4.1 ; breadth of brain-case above 

 roots of zygomata 9.5; width of palatal constriction 2.4; length of 

 palate 11; width of palate including teeth 7.8; greatest length of 

 mandible 16.5. 



Average of three skulls : Total length [2] 24.3 mm. (24.2-24.5) ; greatest 

 zygomatic width 12 (12-12.2); interorbital width 4.2 (4.1-4.3); height 

 at base of second premolar 3.9 (3.7-4.1); height of brain-case [2] 9 

 (9-9.1); breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 9.4 (9.4-9.5); 

 width of palatal constriction 2.2 (2.1-2.4) ; length of palate 9.9 (9.3-11) ; 

 width of palate with teeth 7.9 (7.8-8) ; greatest length of mandible 16.1 

 (16-16.5). 



Remarks. — This form rec|uires comparison with but one other, true 

 M. waterhousii, from which the compressed and spaced tooth-row will 

 readily distinguish it. The external characters are also of service, the 

 longer forearm and tibia and smaller foot being distinctive. From 

 M. ID. compressus and minor the characters given in the key will enable 

 one to separate it without difficulty. 



Specimens Exa?nined. — Twelve; one skin, eleven alcoholic indi- 

 viduals. 



Spanishtown, Jamaica. One [type]. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Kingston, Jamaica. One. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Jamaica. Two. (Biological Survey.) 

 Jamaica. Eight. (A. M. N. H.) 

 28 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Macrotus waterhousii compressus n. subsp. 



Type.— Adult 9 ; Eleiithera, Bahamas. No. 122,484, U. S. Na- 

 tional Museum. July 6, 1903. Collected by S. H. Derickson. 



Distrihution. — Specimens have been examined from Eleuthera, New 

 Providence, I.ong Island and Conch Sound, Andros, Bahamas. 



General Characters. — Similar to Macrotus waterhousii and M. w. 

 jamaicensis, but differing in the quite narrow rostrum (which is an- 

 teriorly narrower than the interorbital region) and elongate-elliptical 

 first lower premolar. 



Head. — Similar to M. w. jamaicensis, except that the nose-leaf and 

 nose-pad appear to be slightly narrower and slenderer. This character 

 appears to be only an average one, however, as the series shows con- 

 siderable variation. 



Limbs. — Similar to M. u\ jamaicensis, l^ut the forearm, tibia, third 

 digit and tail average smaller, while the foot averages larger. In the 

 latter respect compressus approaches true waterhousii, as their respect- 

 ive distribution would lead one to suppose, from which the limbs show 

 practically no differential characters. 



Fur. — Essentially as in M. waterhousii and M. w. compressus. 

 Color. — Above Front's brown, the hair with more than the basal 

 half white ; fur at the base of ears and along the internal margins whit- 

 ish. Below the hair is white basally, ringed with pale drab, and tipped 

 with silvery -white. Membranes sepia, the ears and uropatagium paler 

 than the other portions. 



Skull. — Similar to that of M. w. jamaicensis, but with the anterior 

 portion of the rostrum narrower than the interorbital region. The 

 skull of true waterhousii can readily be separated, as it is of considerably 

 greater size. The mandible is also seen to be slenderer than in either 

 the Haitian or Jamaican form. 



Teeth. — Similar to M. w. jamaicensis, but with the first upper pre- 

 molar narrower and more elongate, and the first lower premolar is 

 distinctly elongate-elliptical in basal outline instead of subquadrate. 

 The teeth are distinctly weaker than in M. ivaterhousii, the latter 

 having a very heavy robust dentition. 



Measurements. — Type: Total length 94 mm.; head and body 69; 

 ear 24; greatest width of ear 18; tragus 8.5; forearm 52; thumb 13.5; 

 third digit 85; tibia 21; calcaneum 11; foot 13; tail 25 



Average of series : Total length [8] 96.7 mm. (88-98) ; head and body 

 [8] 64.5 (59-69) ; head [4] 25 (24-26) ; ear [8] 26 (23-29.5) ; greatest 

 width of ear [8] 18.8 (17-21.5) ; tragus [8] 8.9 (7.5-10) ; forearm [8] 52.1 

 (49.5-54); thumb [7] 13.9 (12.8-16); third digit [7] 88.7 (84-106); 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



tibia [7] 21.2 (20-23.5); calcaneiim [7] 10.4 (9.3-11); foot [8] 14.4 

 (13-16.8); tail [8] 30.9 (25-33.5). 



Skull of type: Total length 25 mm.; greatest zygomatic width 10.6; 

 interorbital 4.3; height at base of second premolar 4.1 ; height of brain- 

 case 8.6; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 8.5; width'of 

 palatal constriction 2.3; length of palate 1 1 ; width of palate (includ- 

 ing teeth) 7.6; greatest length of mandible^ 17. 



Average of four skulls: Total length 25 rnm. (25-25.1); greatest. 

 zygomatic width 11.6 (10.6-12); interorbital width 4.3 (4.2-4.5),- 

 height at base of second premolar 4 (4-4.1); height of brain-case 8.3 

 (8-8.6); breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 9 (8.5-9.5);: 

 width of palatal constriction 2.2 (2.1-2.3); length of palate 10.6- 

 (10.5-11); width of palate (including teeth) 7.5 (7.5-7.6); greatest 

 length of mandible 16.9 (16.8-17). 



Remarks. — The Bahaman form in general appearances approaches 

 closer to true waterhousii than to w. jamaicensis, but the skull and teeth 

 are decidedly different from the Haitian type and approach the 

 Jamaican form. Taken as a whole, however, the Bahaman race is 

 quite distinct from any other form of the genus. 



Specimens Examined. — Nine ; five skins, four alcoholic specimens. 



Eleuthera, Bahamas. One [type]. (U. S. N. M.) 



Gregory town, Eleuthera, Bahamas. 



Georgetown, Eleuthera, Bahamas. 



Nassau, New Providence, Bahamas. 



Conch Somid, Andros, Bahamas. One. (A. M. N. H.) ' ' 



Long Island, Bahamas. One. (U. S. N. M.) 



Macrotus waterhousii minor (Gundlach). 



1S64. Macrotus minor Gundlach, Monatsbr. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch 



Berlin, 1864, p. 382. [Cuba.] 

 1873. M[acrotus\ Waterhousci Gundlach, Anales Soc. Espan. Hist Nat I 



cuad. 3, p. 239. [Cuba.] (Not of Gray.) ' ' 



1878. Macrotus waterhousii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus p 464 



(Part.) 

 1904. Macrotus waterhousii Miller, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 344. 



[Guanajay, El Cobre, Cuba; Nueva Gerona, Isle of Pines.] (Not of Gray.) 



Type Locality. — Cuba. From remarks made by Gundlach in a later 

 paper {vide supra) we learn that his material was from western Cuba. 



Distribution. — Cuba and the Isle of Pines. Gundlach says it is a 

 common species in some warehouses and caves, where individuals 

 pass the day side by side suspended by the hind limbs. 



General Characters. — A member of the Macrotus icaterhousii group 

 but readily separated by the smaller size and the deeper coloration. 

 The Cuban form is such a distinct type, with small light skull and 

 weak teeth, that it hardly requires comparison. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Head. — Essentially as in M. ivaterhousii jamaicensis. 



Limbs. — As in M. iv. jamaicensis, but slightly smaller. 



Fur. — As in the other forms of the ivaterhousii group, except that the 

 furring of the base and proximal part of the internal margin of the ear 

 is more marked than in any other form. 



Color. — Apparently two extreme types of coloration exist in this 

 form, which may be sexual, l)ut the available material is not in condi- 

 tion to justify any statement beyond the fact that the two phases exist. 

 The one extreme is a deep browni, while the other (represented by but 

 one skin) is a rather dark ferruginous. Two specimens have a slight 

 tendency toward the ferruginous type, the upper surface being slightly 

 suffused with that tint while the lower surface is that of the browm 

 form. Brown phase: Above seal brown, the hair with slightly more 

 than the basal half white, region l^etween the ears and posterior to 

 the connecting membrane blackish; below the hair is wliite basally, 

 then conspicuously annulate with drab and rather obscurely tipped 

 with silvery; membranes blackish-brown. This type is distinctly 

 darker, both above and below, than anj' of the other West Indian forms. 

 Red phase : Above and below dull ferruginous, the hair unicolor ; patch 

 between the ears blackish ; memJDranes black. In one of the apparently 

 intermediate specimens mentioned above, the hair of the upper surface 

 is whitish basallj^ with a median annulation of smoke gra3\ 



Skull. — Of the general type of M. iraterhousii, but distinctly smaller 

 than any of the related forms. As specimens from the eastern part 

 ofpuba approximate slightly toward the Jamaican type, a slight differ- 

 ence in size is noticed in comparing the skulls of individuals from the 

 two extremes of the island. 



Teeth. — Essentially as in M. w. jamaicensis, but the first upper pre- 

 molar is slightly narrower and the lower premolars are distinctly more 

 longitudinal and compressed. This latter character alone will immedi- 

 ately demonstrate the fact that while specimens from the eastern part 

 of the island slightly approach jamaicensis, theyjare inseparable from 

 typical minor from western Cuba, when the dentition is considered. 



Measurements. — Average of twelve specimens: Total length 90.7 

 mm. (84.5-96.5); head and body 59.9 (55.5-65); head 25.1 (25-30); 

 ear 26.3 (21.5-30); greatest width of ear 17.3 (15-19); tragus 8.6 

 (7.8-10) ; forearm 51.4 (49-54); thumb 14.1 (12.5-15); third digit 85.1 

 (81-88); tibia 21.2 (19-22.5); calcaneum 10.9 (8.5-12.3); foot 13 

 (10.5-15.5); tail 30 (20-37). 



Average of five skulls: Total length 23.8 mm. (23.5-24.3); greatest 

 zygomatic width 11.3 (11-12); interorbital width 3.9 (3.5-4.1); height 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



at base of second premolar 3.8 (3.5-4) ; height of brain-case 8.3 (8-8.8) ; 

 breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 9.1 (9-9.2); width of 

 palatal constriction 2.1 (2-2.2); length of palate 9.7 (9.2-10); width 

 of palate (including teeth) 7.3 (7-8); greatest length of mandible 15.4 

 (15-16). 



Remarks. — The Cuban form minor is quite distinct from any of the 

 related forms except the Jamaican Macrotus waterhousii jamaicensis. 

 The specimens from eastern Cuba somewhat approach this latter race, 

 as already noticed by Gundlach {vide supra), but the general charac- 

 ters of the race are retained and the smaller size and weaker teeth, as 

 well as the deeper coloration, will serve to distinguish the two races. 



Specimens Examined. — Twenty-eight; four skins, twenty-four alco- 

 holics : 



Guanajay, Pinar del Rio, Cuba. Three. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Nueva Gerona, Isle of Pines. Three. (U. S. N. M.) 

 El Cobre, Santiago, Cuba. Two. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Santiago de Cuba, Cuba. Twenty. (U. S. N. M.) 

 Macrotus mexicanus Saussure. 



1860. Macrotus mexicanus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2" ser. 



XII, p. 486. [Cuautla, near Yautepec, Morelos, Mexico.] 

 1865. M[acrotus] mexicanus Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 



Berlin, 1865, p. 504. 

 1876. Macrotus bocourtianus Dobson, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 4th ser 



XVIII, p. 436. [Vera Paz, Guatemala.] 

 1878. Macrotus xcaterhousii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus.. p. 464. 



(Part.) 



1878. Macrotus bocourtianus Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 467 

 [Vera Paz, Guatemala.] 



1879. Macrotus waterhousii Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 38 

 (Part.) 



1879. Macrotus bocourtianus Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Manmi., p. 38 



[Vera Paz, Guatemala.] 

 1898. Otopterus mexicanus Merriam, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XII, p. 18 



[Morelos, Mexico.] 



Tijpe Locality. — Cuautla, near Yautepec, Morelos, Mexico. 



Distribution. — From Colima, Michoacan, and Morelos, Mexico, south 

 to Vera Paz, Guatemala. 



General Characters. — Size large; ears rather large; limbs robust; 

 skull heavy, the rostrum not narrower than the interorbital region; 

 teeth heavy, the first upper premolar moderately compressed, the 

 third lower premolar somewhat crowded. 



Head. — Ear, when stretched forward, extending beyond the muzzle 

 a distance not exceeding the length of the nose-leaf; internal margin 

 strongly arcuate basally, gently so apically; apex rather narrowly 

 roimded; external margin slightly curved, basal notch distinct, basal 

 lobe rather low; tragus lanceolate, apex acuminate, external basal 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lobe low; internal connecting membrane rather high, with a slight 

 median emargination. Nose-leaf acute; nose-pad with the inferior 

 margin more or less free; nostrils crescentic. Pad on the lower jaw 

 trigonal, median incision of varying depth, but usually rather Inroad 

 and shallow. 



Limbs. — Forearm long and heavy, with a distinct and even arcuation. 

 Posterior limbs moderately robust (for the genus) , femora and tibise of 

 equal length ; foot about half the length of the femur, rather heavy ; 

 calcaneum thick and flattened. Tail rather long, one or one and a 

 half terminal joints free. 



Membranes and Fur. — Essentially as in the waterhousii group. 



Color. — Two color phases are present in the series examined — one 

 dark brown the other of a more rufescent type — between which two 

 extremes arc a number of intermediate specimens. Dark browTi phase : 

 Above bistre with a slight overlying silvery ''bloom," the basal three- 

 fifths of the hair white; below wood brown, the hair Avith the basal 

 section as above, the whole with the tips of the hair white; hair at 

 the base of the ears and the auricular hairs whitish; membranes bistre. 

 Rufous brown phase: Above cinnamon, slightly more than the basal 

 half of the hair white ; below the hair white basally, then ringed with 

 cinnamon, and tipped with ecru drab, thus producing a paler color 

 than that of the upper surface ; hair at the base of the ears and auricular 

 hairs whitish; membranes mummy brown. 



Skull. — Similar to M. ivaterhousri, but slightly smaller, with the inter- 

 orbital region more depressed and the rostrum slightly slenderer. 



Teeth. — As in ilf. waterhousii. except that the canines are distinctly 

 weaker, the first upper premolar is more compressed, the second upper 

 premolar slightly longer, and the lower tooth-row more compressed. 



Measurements. — Average of four Cuernavaca specimens: Total 

 length 93.1 mm. (87-101); head and body 59.8 (56.5-64); head 24; 

 ear 25.2 (24-27); greatest width of ear 17.7 (17-18.5); tragus 9.2 

 (9-9.6); forearm 49.6 (47.5-51.5); thumb 12.5 (11.5-13); third digit 

 87.1 (85.5-90); tibia 21.2 (21-21.5); calcaneum 10.3 (9-11.3); foot 

 12.7 (11.8-13); tail 33.5 (30-37). 



Average of eight Tehuantepec skins : Total length [1] 100.5 mm. ; head 

 and body 60.9 (57-69) ; head [1] 29.2; ear 26 (24-28.5) ; greatest width 

 of ear [3] 18.8 (17.9-19.5); tragus 8.5 (8-10); forearm 52.5 (51-53.5); 

 thumb [7] 12.3 (12-13.5); third digit [5] 87.8 (87-89); tibia 22.2 

 (20-23.5); calcaneum 10 (9-11); foot 13.1 (13-13.5); tail [1] 31.5. 



Average of eight skulls from Tehuant(>pec and Reyes, Oaxaca: Total 

 length 24.8 mm. (24-25.5); greatest zygomatic width 12 (11.5-12 5); 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



interorbital width 4.1 (3.9-4.5); height at base of second premolar 3.7 

 (3.5-3.9); height of brain-case 9 (8.1-9.5); breadth of brain-case at 

 roots of zygomata 9.2 (9-9.6) ; width of palatal constriction 2.2 (2-2.5) ; 

 length of palate 9.4 (9-9.8); width of palate (including teeth) 8 

 (7.9-8.2); greatest length of mandible 16.4 (16-17.6). 



Remarks. — The Macrotus mexicanus group is closely related to the 

 West Indian waterhousii group, from which, however, it can be dis- 

 tinguished by the characters mentioned above. The slenderer build, 

 larger ears and lighter skull will at once separate M. calif ornicus from 

 this form, while the race bulleri is a smaller type of the viexicanus 

 character quite easily recognized. 



Dobson's Macrotus bocourtianus is, no doubt, simply the extreme 

 development of this form, and his measurements are almost identical 

 with those of the type of mexicanus given by Saussure. Specimens 

 from Tehuantepec average larger than ]\Iorelos specimens, but some 

 specimens in the same series are smaller than Cuernavaca individuals, 

 and as no other characters appear to be at variance, they should be 

 considered extreme mexicanus. ]\Iany of Dobson's measurements of 

 bocourtianus are smaller than the average of four Cuernavaca specimens 

 examined, and in several cases are actually smaller than the same 

 measurements of Saussure's type. 



Specimens Examined. — Nineteen; eleven skins, eight alcoholic 

 specimens : 



Cohma, Cohma. Two. (Biol. Surv.) 



La Salada, Michoacan. Five. (Biol. Surv.) 



Cuernavaca, Morelos. Four. (Biol. Surv.) 



Reyes, Oaxaca. One. (Biol. Surv.) 



Tehuantepec, Oaxaca. Seven. (A, M. N. H. and Field Columbian 

 Mus.) 

 Macrotus mexicanus bulleri (H. Allen). 



18S9. Macrotus californicus J. A. Allen, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., II, 



p. 166. [Bolaiios, Jalisco, Mexico.] (Not of Baird.) 

 1890. Macrotus bulleri H. Allen, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXVIII, p. 73. 



[Bolaiios, Jalisco, Mexico.] 

 1894. Macrotus bulleri H. Allen, Monogr. Bats N. Aiiier., p. 41. [Bolaiios, 



Jalisco, Mexico.] 

 1898. Otopterus mexicanus Merriam, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XII, p. 18. 



[Maria Madre, Tres Marias Islands.] (Not of Saussure.) 



1898. Otopterus bulleri Merriam, Proc. Biol. Soc. AVash., XII, p. 18. [Bo- 

 laiios, Jalisco, Mexico.] 



1899. Otopterus mexicanus Nelson, North American Fauna, No. 14. p. 18 

 [Maria Madre, Tres Marias Islands.] (Not of Saussure.) 



Type Locality. — Bolahos, Jalisco, Mexico. 



Distribution. — From Guadalajara north to Durango and southern 



Chihuahua, also including the Tres Marias Islands. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



General Characters. — Similar to M. mexicamis. but smaller, with the 

 dentition more crowded, and the second upper premolar shorter and 

 somewhat weaker. 



Head. — As in M. mexicamis, except that the ears are larger. 



Limbs. — As in M. mexicanus, but rather slenderer, the foot and cal- 

 caneum distinctly weaker. 



Membranes and Fur. — As in M. jnexicanus. 



Color. — This race occurs in two phases, one of which appears to be 

 that of immaturit}'. The dark brown type, which is apparently the 

 immature coloration, is connected by intermediates with the dull 

 rufescent brown type. Brown phase: Above bistre, the hair with the 

 basal half white; base of ears and auricular hairs whitish; below drab, 

 the hair white at the base and tipped with silvery-white ; membranes 

 clove brown. Red phase : Above between chestnut and hazel (Ridg- 

 way's Nomenclature of Colors, pi. iv), the hair light and rather vinaceous 

 basally ; base of ears and auricular hairs of the under color of the upper 

 surface; below dull pinkish vinaceous; membranes between chestnut 

 and liver brown. The intermediate specimens have the upper surface 

 cinnamon rufous, while of this type has the extreme base of the hair 

 smoke-gray, thus making the hair triannulate^ — smoke gray, white and 

 cinnamon rufous. The original series of this race was composed 

 entirely of immature individuals and accordingly all are of the dark 

 brown type. 



Skull. — Very similar to that of M. mexicanus, but distinctly smaller. 

 with the rostrum, for its size, heavier. 



Teeth. — As in il/. mexicanus, but the second upper premolar is with- 

 out the produced anterior shoulder noticed in mexicanus, and the 

 inferior premolars are comparatively shorter and broader. 



Measurements. — Average of five alcoholic topotypes: Total length 

 87.6 mm. (84.5-92); head and body 55.1 (53.5-56.5); head 23 (22.5- 

 23.5); ear 28.5 (27-30.5); greatest width of ear 19.2 (18.5-20.5); tra- 

 gus 9.5 (9-10); forearm 49.2 (48.5-50.5); thumb 12.6 (12-13.2); third 

 digit 83.8 (81-87); tibia 20.2 (19-21); calcaueum 10.6 (10-11.2); foot 

 12.4 (12-13); tail 32.5 (30.5-35.5). 



Average of eleven topotypic and Guadalajara skulls : Total length 23 

 mm. (22.5-23.5) ; greatest zygomatic width 10.8(10.5-11.1) ; intcrorbital 

 width 4 (4-4.2); height at base of second premolar 3.6 (3.3-4); height 

 of brain-case 8.2 (8-9) ; breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 

 8.6 (8.3-9) ; width of palatal constriction 2 (2-2.3) ; length of palate 8.6 

 (8.3-9) ; width of palate (including teeth) 7.4 (7-7.8) ; greatest length 

 of mandible 15 (14.6-15.5). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 - 



Remar'ks. — This well-marked race of mexicanus can be easily recog- 

 nized by the smaller size, the weak second upper and distinctly crowded 

 third lower premolars. The Tres Marias specimens appear to be 

 inseparable from the mainland form. 



Specimens Examined. — Fifty-two ; twenty-seven skins, twenty-five 

 alcoholic individuals : 



Near Batopilas, Chihuahua. Four. (Biol. Surv.) 



Chacala, Dm-ango. Five. (Biol. Surv.) 



Bolanos, Jalisco. Twenty-one. (A. M. N. H., Biol. Surv., and Field 

 Columb. Mus.) 



San Pedro, near Guadalajara, Jahsco. Five. (A. M. N. H.) 



Ameca, Jahsco. Six. (Biol. Siu-v.) 



Maria Madre, Tres Marias Islands, Tepic. Eleven. (Biol, Surv.) 



Macrotus californicus Baird. 



ISoS. Macrotus Californicus Baird, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 116. 

 [Fort Yuma, California.] 



1859. Macrotus calijornica Baird, Rep. U. S. and Mexican Boundary Sur- 

 vey, Vol. II, Pt. 2, Mamm., p. 4. PL 1, fig. 2. [Fort Yuma, California.] 



1864. Macrotus californicus Allen, Monogr. Bats N. Amer., p. 3, figs. 2 and 3. 

 [Fort Yuma, California; Cape St. Lucas, Lower California.] 



186.5. M[acrotus] californicus Peters, Monatsb. K. Preuss. Akad. Wissensch., 

 Berlin, 1865, p. 504. 



1875. Macrotus waterhousii Coues and Yarrow, Rep. Expl. Surv. W. 100th 

 Merid., V, p. 80. (Not of Gray.) 



1878. Macrotus waterhousii Dobson, Catal. Chiropt. Brit. Mus., p. 465. 

 [Cape St. Lucas, Lower California.] (Part.) 



1879. Macrotus xcaterhousvi Alston, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Mamm., p. 38. 

 (Part.) 



1894. Macrotus californicus Allen, Monogr. Bats N. Amer., p. 34, Pis. 1 and 2. 



[Fort Yuma, California; Cape St. Lucas, Lower California; near Tucson, 



Arizona.] 

 1901. [Otopterus'l californicus Elliot, Field Columb. Mus. Publication, Zool. 



ser., II, p. 420. 



Type Locality. — Fort Yuma, San Diego county, California. 



Distribution. — Arid region of the southwestern United States, Lower 

 Cahfornia and Sonora. Specimens have been examined from as far 

 east as Tombstone, Cochise county, Arizona, west as far as De Luz, 

 San Diego county, California, and from as far south as Camoa, Rio 

 Mayo, Sonora, and Cape St. Lucas. Caj^e St. Lucas and Sonoran speci- 

 mens are slightly smaller than topotj'pes, but are otherv^dse indistin- 

 guishable. 



General Characters. — Size large; form slender, ears extremely large, 

 subovate in outline ; limbs very slender; skull slender, rostrum narrow; 

 teeth weak; colors usually pale. 



Head. — Elongate, slender; rostrum rather attenuate; brain-case 

 moderately elevated. Ear very large, elliptical, when stretched for- 

 ward, exceeding the muzzle by a third the entire length of the append- 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



age ; internal border arcuate, strongly so basally ; apex blunt rectangu- 

 late; external margin very slightly curved, almost straight; basal lobe 

 low, but separated by a distinct notch; transverse plicae weak, sepa- 

 rated; internal ridge narrow, rather inconspicuous; interauricular 

 membrane moderately high with a rounded median emargination ; 

 tragus lanceolate, greatest width not more than a third of the length, 

 apex attenuate, internal margin moderately arcuate at the base, 

 external margin with a pair of slight accessory lobes at the base. Eye 

 of medium size. Nose-leaf blunt lanceolate, higher than the width of 

 the pad ; nostrils crescentic ; nose-pad with the margins free to a greater 

 or less extent. Lower jaw with the pad triangular and of medium size, 

 divided more or less distinctly. 



Limbs. — Forearm moderately robust, slightly l^owed ; thumb long 

 and slender. Posterior limbs slender and weak, the feet narrower 

 and with the toes strongly compressed. Tail slender, exceeding the 

 apical margin of the interfemoral membrane by the length of one or 

 one and a half vertelDrte. 



Membranes and F?fr.— Membranes thin and rather weak; propa- 

 tagium deep proximally, very narrow distally, but with the margin 

 free to the thumb; uropatagium large, apical margin sul^truncate; 

 endopatagium with the nerves extending parallel to the humerus and 

 femur; mcsopatagium with the nerves with a general antero-posterior 

 trend. Fur thick and long, rather silky in texture, uniform in distri- 

 bution except on the interauricular region of the head, which is par- 

 tially bare; ear with the posterior and internal bases as well as the 

 anterior margin very distinctly haired, the anterior margin with the 

 hair long and scattered. 



Color. — Upper surface ranging from pale drab to mars l^rown, the 

 basal two-thirds of the fur white, which shows through distinctly at 

 the nape and on the crown, at which latter point the ])rown tips are 

 almost absent in some specimens. Under surface ranging from ecru 

 drab to broccoli brown, the hair white basally and with silvery tips, 

 the latter being more marked in some individuals than in others. Hair 

 at base and on the margin of the ears whitish. Membranes and muzzle 

 appendages Front's brown. 



Skull. — Slender, elongate, rostrum produced and moderately acumi- 

 nate. Brain-case slightly compressed, evenly arched; sagittal crest 

 low and weak; interorbital constriction distinct, not or very slightly 

 vader than the width of the rostrum at the canines; zygomata with 

 the greatest width posterior, not arched. Rostrum at the orbits twice 

 as wide as at the canines, gently acuminate and passing into the brain- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



case without any abrupt depression ; palate with the posterior portion 

 rather broad, subequal. Mandible rather slender; ascending rami low, 

 coronoid process rather sharp, condylar process broad but compressed, 

 angle recurved, deflected laterally to a considerable extent. 



Teeth. — Central pair of superior incisors slender, compressed, dis- 

 tinctly projecting forward; lateral upper incisors of about the same 

 basal area as the median pair, but very low, not one-fourth the height 

 of the median pair. Upper canines slightly flaring, subreniform in 

 basal outline; first upper premolar elongate, strongly compressed, casp 

 low and placed anteriorly; second upper premolar touching and 

 slightly overlapping the first, elongate pyramidical in basal outline, 

 the apex interior and deflected toward the internal margin of the 

 tooth-row, cusp moderately high ; first upper molar narrowed anteriorly, 

 metacone inconspicuous and pressed against the hypocone-metaconule 

 ridge; second upper molar quadrate, cusps regularly placed; third 

 upper molar strongly transverse. Lower incisors small, compressed, 

 edges very faintly bilobate; lower canines slightly recurved; first 

 lower premolar oblong in basal outline, the internal margin slightly 

 rounded, cusp obtuse and low; second and third lower premolars 

 similar in basal outline, oblong, the third not more crowded than the 

 second; first lower molar smaller than the second, cusps similar in 

 character except that the entoconid is distinctly stronger in the second 

 than in the first tooth; third lower molar with the meta-paraconid 

 section very slight and weak in strong contrast to the distinct and 

 heavy ento-metaconid fold. 



Measurements. — Average of series of five alcoholic topotypes: Total 

 length 88.6 mm. (84.5-92.5) ; head and body 54.7 (50-58) ; head 23.8 

 (22.5-25); ear 30.7 (28-33); greatest width of ear 21.2 (20.5-22.5); 

 tragus 10.9 (10-12); forearm 50.5 (49.3-51); thumb 11.9 (10.8-12); 

 third digit 79.9 (77-83); tibia 21.7 (21-22.2); calcaneum 11.5 (10.2- 

 12.8); foot 11.5 (11-12.5); tail 33.9 (30-37). 



Average of six skulls: Total length 23.5 mm. (23-24.1); greatest 

 zygomatic width 11.5 (11-12); interorbital width 3.9 (3.8-4); height 

 at base of second premolar 3.5 (3-3.9) ; height of brain-case 8.1 (8-8.8) ; 

 breadth of brain-case above roots of zygomata 8.7 (8.4-9) ; width of 

 palatal constriction 2.2 (2-2.5); length of palate 9.5 (9.2-10); width 

 of palatal constriction 7.3 (6.9-7.9) ; greatest length of mandible 15.7 

 (15.2-16). 



Remarks. — This species can be distinguished from the waterhousii 

 group by the slenderer structure of the whole body and skull the 

 longer ear and the weaker dentition. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April^ 



From M. mexicanus and M. huUeri, californicus can be distinguished 

 by the characters given in the key. 



The Cape St. Lucas specimens are shghtly differentiated from the 

 typical Yuma specimens, but the differences are so extremely shght 

 that they would not justify the separation of the Cape series. 



Specimens Examined.— YiiXy-mnQ; twenty-one skins, thirty-three- 

 alcoholic individuals : 



Yuma, Arizona. Five. (Biol. Surv.) 



Thirty-five miles east of Yuma, Arizona. Two. (U. S. N. M.) 



Parker, Yuma coimty, Arizona. One. (U. S. N. M.) 



San Xavier, Pima county, Arizona. One. (U. S. N. M.) 



Ai-izona. Five. (A. M. N. H.) 



Tombstone, Cochise coimty, Arizona. Two. (Biol. Surv.) 



Vallecito, San Diego county, California. Seventeen. (Biol. Surv. 

 and U. S. N. M.) 



De Luz, San Diego county, Cahfornia. Two. (Biol. Surv.) 



Indian Wells, San Diego coimty, Cahfornia. Four. (U. S. N. M.) 



Ortiz, Sonora, Mexico. One. (Biol. Surv.) 



Camoa, Sonora, Mexico. Eleven. (Biol. Surv.) 



Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cahfornia. Eight. (A. N. S. Phila. and 

 U. S. N. M.) 



Macrotus pygmseus n. sp. 



Type.—MvM skin and skuh; Izamal, Yucatan. No. 12,756] 11, 043,. 

 American Museum of Natural History. Collected by George F.. 

 Gaumer. 



Distribution. — Ivnown only from the type locality. 



General Characters. — Size extremely small (for the genus) ; skull with 

 the interorbital region very broad and distinctly flattened ; teeth large 

 and strongly crowded. 



Head. — Ear rounded ; internal margin evenly arcuate ; apex rounded 

 with but a slight trace of an angle; external margin evenly arcuate, 

 basal notch very slight, basal lobe subobsolete ; transverse plicse dis- 

 tinct; interauricular membrane distinct and moderately high; tragus 

 lanceolate, apex rather blimt, external margin with a slight basal 

 accessory longitudinal lobule. Nose-leaf high, lanceolate, with the 

 nose-pad over twice as high as the width of the pad; apex rather 

 acute; nostrils slightly crescentic. Extremity of lower jaw with the 

 triangular pad bearing a shallow mecUan depression. 



Limbs. — Forearm short, robust, evenly arcuate. Thumb rather 

 long, enveloped in membranes for more than half its length. Third- 

 digit moderately long. Posterior hmbs heavy; feet strong and but 

 moderately compressed; calcanea long, stout and compressed. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Membranes and Fur. — Membranes thick and leathery ; propatagium 

 •broad. Fur long, silky above, woolly below; skin of the head at the 

 -base of the ears and the interorbital region bare; base of ears and 

 greater part of the internal margin of the ear clothed with long hair; 

 muzzle with a number of long setiform hairs. 



Color. — ^Above mars brown, the hair grayish white basally; below 

 •ecru drab, the hair unicolor; flight membranes clove brown; ears and 

 nasal appendages Front's brown ; auricular hairs the color of the upper 

 •surface. 



Skull. — Light and rather fragile ; brain-case strongly elevated above 

 the rostrum. Brain-case when viewed from the posterior aspect sub- 

 tectate, evenly arched longitudinally; sagittal crest distinct; zygo- 

 mata rather evenly arched, but greatest width posterior; interorbital 

 region broad, depressed, curving evenly toward the rostrum and the 

 brain-case. Rostrum moderately produced, rather low, width at 

 canines considerably less than the interorbital width; palate rather 

 narrow, shallowly excavated, posterior extension rather broad with 

 the cleft acute-angulate with the apex blunt; pterygoids strongly 

 •divergent. Mandible rather long; ascending ramus low; coronoid 

 process blunt; condylar process broad transversely; angles blunt, 

 -divergent. 



Teeth. — Median pair of upper incisors narrow, cutting edges entire; 

 lateral upper incisors very small, low and without a distinct cusp or 

 •other structure; upper canines rather heavy, slightly divergent; first 

 upper premolar subelliptical in basal outline with a distinct median 

 •constriction, cusp rectangulate and low; second upper premolar 

 crudely pyramidical in basal outline, the internal posterior margin bear- 

 ing a distinct rounded shoulder; molars of the type usual in the genus. 

 Lower incisors narrow, compressed; lower canines rather heavy, diver- 

 gent, projecting slightly forward; lower premolars subquadrate in 

 basal outline, the first and third more longitudinal than the second, 

 <iusp of the first tooth rectangulate, of the second and third acute; first 

 lower molar with the para-proto-metaconid gi'oup much less sharply 

 defined than in the other lower molars ; third lower molar with the 

 liypo-entoconid group reduced as in the other members of the genus. 



Measurements.^ — Total length 79.3 mm. (Gaumer) ; head and body 

 46; ear 17.2; greatest width of ear 13; tragus 7; forearm 35.5; thumb 

 10; third digit 65.5; tibia 14.9; calcaneum 9; foot 10.5; tail 28 (Gau- 

 mer); nose-leaf and nose-pad, 7.2. 



Skull: Greatest zygomatic width 9.2 mm.; interorbital width 4.2; 



^ From dried skin, unless otherwise credited. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



height at base of second premolar 3.2; height of brain-case 7.6; breadth 

 of brain-case above roots of zygomata 8; width of palatal constriction 

 2; length of palate 8; width of palate (including teeth) 6.5; greatest 

 length of mandible, 12.8. 



Remarks.— This diminutive species is so very distinct that no further 

 comparison or special comment is necessary. 



Specimens Examined. — One, the type. 




1904.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



A MONOGRAPH OF THE GENUS DENDROCINCLA Gray, 

 BY HARRY C. OBERHOLSER. 



The purpose of the investigation -whose results are set forth in the 

 following pages is to clear up to such degree as may be possible the 

 measurable uncertainty of identification attending the birds of the 

 genus Dendrocinda. This Dendrocolaptine group is composed en- 

 tirely of plainly attired species which present often but slight differ- 

 entiating characters; and many of the original descriptions are both 

 so short and so unsatisfactory that the determination of their positive 

 identity is a matter sometimes of considerable difficulty. Individual 

 color variation is very marked in a few of the forms, occasionally 

 amounting to a greater degree of difference than that which distin- 

 guishes some entirely distinct species; and the sexes, though alike in 

 color, frequently differ widely in size. The color of the bill, which some 

 writers have relied on to furnish specific distinctions, seems to change 

 with age, being darkest in immature birds. 



The name Dendromancs^ under which Dr. Sclater proposed to sepa- 

 rate Dendrocinda anahatina and a few of the other small species, at 

 first generically,^ then subgenerically,- seems to have no standing other 

 than as a simple synonym of Dendrocinda, since the alleged characters 

 do not prove to be significant; furthermore, there are no other struc- 

 tural differences among the species of the genus, aside from some com- 

 paratively slight variations in length of tail, and none of these seem 

 cause sufficient for even subgeneric division. 



For the purposes of the present review there have been available 

 examples of all the twenty forms here recognized, save two — the newly 

 described D. macrorhyncha and the well-known D. longicauda — com- 

 prising altogether considerably over 100 specimens. In a difl^cult 

 group like Dendrocinda the examination of types is of great value — 

 in many cases of prime importance — and in this we have been fortunate 

 enough to handle the original specimens of D. tyrannina, D. atrirostris, 

 D. 0. lafresnayei, D. meruloides, D. rufo-olivacea, D. castanoptera and 



1 Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1859, p. 382. 

 ^ Sclater and Salvin, Ibid., 1868, p. 54. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



D. olivacea anguina, thereby being able to elucidate some problems 

 of doubtful relationship. 



The most important papers dealing with the species of this genus 

 appear to be as follows: 



Lafresnaye, Revue et Mag. de Zoologie, 1851, pp. 465-468. 

 RiDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1888, pp. 488-497. 

 ScLATER, Cat. Birds in Brit. Mus., XV. 1890, pp. 162-168. 



Although the present writer's work began with the collection of the 

 United States National [Museum, including that of the Biological Sur- 

 vey, he is under great obligations to the authorities of the American 

 Museum of Natural History, and of the Boston Society of Natural 

 History, as well as to Mr. (3utram Bangs, for the loan of material, with- 

 out which, particularly the valuable type specimens, it would have 

 been impossible to arrive at anything like satisfactory conclusions. To 

 Mr. Glover M. Allen he is also indebted for the verification of some 

 obscure references; and especially to Mr. Ridgway, whose constantly 

 courteous assistance has contributed to make this paper much better 

 than it otherwise would have been. 



Genus DENDROCINCLA Gray. 



Dryocopus Wied, Beitr. Naturg. Bras., Ill, 1831, p. 1111 {nee Boie) (type, 

 Dendrocolaptes turdiniis Lichtenstein). 



Dendrocincla Gray, List Gen. Birds, 1840, p. 18 (type, Dendrocolaptes 

 turdinus Lichtenstein). 



Dendromanes Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1859, p. 382 (type, Dendro- 

 cincla anabatina Sclater). 



Dendrocichla Sharpe, Hand-List Gen. and Spec. Birds, III, 1901. p. 74 (nom. 

 emend, pro Dendrocincla) (type, Dendrocolaptes turdinus Lichtenstein). 



Chars, gen. — Similar to Dendrocolaptes, but nares linear and some- 

 what operculate, instead of round and open; bill somewhat more 

 compressed. Species mostly smaller and of plainer colors. 



Type. — De7idrocolaptes turdinus Lichtenstein. 



Geographical Distribution. — Southern Mexico; Central America; 

 Tobago; Trinidad; and all of South America down to Bolivia and 

 southern Brazil. 



Key to the Species and Subspecies of Dendrocincla. 



A. — Wing over 115 mm. 



a. — Wing less than 135 mm. 



h. — Exposed surface of wing-quills decidedly tinged with 



olivaceous ridgwayi. 



h' . — Exposed surface of wing-quills clear chestnut. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



c— Under parts lighter, more olivaceous; pileum and 



jugulum more distinctly striated . . iijrannina. 



c' . — Under parts darker, more rufescent; pileum and 



jugulum less distinctly striated . . . brunnea. 



a'.— Wing more than 135 mm macrorhijncha. 



B. — Wing not over 115 mm. 



a. — Outer webs of secondaries ta^\^l3^, in sharp contrast to the 

 dark brown upper wdng-coverts. 



6.— Darker anahatina. 



6'.— Paler tijphla. 



o! . — Outer webs of secondaries chestnut or olive-brown, not in 

 sharp contrast to the wing-coverts. 

 h. — Pileum with distinct pale buffy or ochraceous shaft stripes. 



c— Tail about equal to wing longicauda. 



c' . — Tail decidedly shorter than wing. 



d. — A conspicuous ochraceous postocular stripe; 

 exposed siu-face of wing-quills bright chestnut 



atrirostris. 

 d'. — No conspicuous ochraceous postocular stripe; 

 exposed sm-face of wing-quills oUvascent. 

 e. — Much more rufescent; throat and sides of 

 head darker ; shafts of rectrices brown 



turdina. 



e'. — Much more olivaceous ; throat and sides of 



head paler; shafts of retrices mostly 



black enalincia. 



^'' — Pileum without distinct pale buffy or ochraceous shaft 

 stripes. 

 c. — Pileum rufous-chestnut, decidedly contrasted with 

 * back. 



d. — Back and lower parts more olivaceous . ruficeps. 

 d'. — Back and lower parts more rufescent. 



e. — Smaller and paler .... iiomochroa. 



e'. — Larger and darker acedesta. 



c'. — Pileum concolor with back, or more olivaceous. 



d. — Exposed surface of secondaries decidedly less 

 rufescent than tail. 

 e. — Larger and much more rufescent . ridgwayi. 

 e' . — Smaller and much more olivaceous. 



/.—Darker olivacea. 



f • — Lighter lafresnayei. 



d'. — Exposed surface of secondaries not decidedly 

 less rufescent than tail. 

 e. — Feathers of throat with conspicuous pale 



shaft streaks fuliginosa. 



e'. — Feathers of throat T\ithout conspicuous pale 

 shaft streaks. 



. — Chin rufous or oUve-rufous, concolor 

 ■v\ith breast. 




450 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



g. — More rufescent throughout 



meruloides. 

 (/ . — More ohvaceous throughout 



a'phanta. 

 . — Chin whitish, pale grayish, or buffy, 

 much paler than breast. 

 g. — Lower surface darker, chin more 



whitish merula. 



g' . — Lower surface lighter, chin more 

 buffy phceochroa. 



Dendrocmcla macrorhyncha Salvadori and Festa. 



Dendrocinda macrorhyncha Salvadori and Festa, Boll. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. 

 Comp. Torino, XV, 1899, No. 362, p. 27. 



Type Locolity. — Pun, eastern Ecuador. 



Geographical Distribution. — Eastern Ecuador. 



This recently described species is the largest of the genus, and may 

 readily be distinguished by this character alone. In other respects 

 it appears to be close to Dendrocinda tyrcmniiui tyrannina, of which 

 it may prove through further research to be but a subspecies. 



Dendrocinda tyrannina tyrannina (Lafresnaye). 



Dendrocops tyranninus Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1851, p. 328. 



Type Locality. — Bogota, U. 8. Colombia. 



Geographiccd Distribution. — United States of Colombia. 



This is one of the large forms (wing 118-L30 mm.), with the throat 

 conspicuously pale-streaked. It appears to be confined to Colombia, 

 as birds from western Ecuador belong under the next. The two types 

 in the Lafresnaye collection measure as follows :^ 



Dendrocinda tyrannina brunnea (Salvadori and Festa). 



Dendrocinda brunnea Salvadori and Festa, Boll. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, XIII, 1898, No. 330, p. 2. 



Type Loccdity. — Nanegal, Ecuador. 

 Geographical Distribution. — Western Ecuador. 



Similar to D. tyrannina tyrannina, but darker, more rufescent below; 

 the throat deeper ochraceous; the foreneck and pileum less distinctly. 



^ All measurements in this paper are in millimeters. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



451 



even to scarcely striated. Specimens examined, including one from 

 the type locality, and compared with the type and other examples of 

 tyrannina, show brunnea to be an easily recognizable race, which its 

 describers hastened unnecessarily to suppress.^ There seems to ba 

 no doubt, however, of its being only subspecifically distinct. 



Dendrocincla longicauda Pelzeln. 



Dendrocinda longicauda Pelzeln, Orn. Bras., 1S6<S, p. 60. 



Type Locality. — Borba, Amazonas, Brazil. 



Geographical Distribution. — Lower Amazon to British Guiana. 



Evidently a very good species, though not seen, differing conspicu- 

 ously from Dendrocincla tyrannina in its reduced size, and particularly 

 by reason of its comparatively much longer tail. 



Dendrocincla atrirostris (d'Orbigny and Lafresnaye). 



Dendrocolapies atrirostris d'Orbigny and Lafresnaye, Mag. de Zool., 1838, 



CI. ii, p. 12. 

 Dendrocincla minor Pelzeln, Orn. Braz., 1868, p. 60 (San Vicente, Matto 



Grosso, Brazil.) 



Type Locality. — Guarayos, Bolivia. 



Geographical Distribution. — Eastern Bolivia and southwestern 

 Brazil. 



Apparently a very distinct species, as pointed out by Mr. Ridgway,^ 

 though for some time confused with Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayei, 

 but really much more closely allied to tyrannina and longicauda than 

 to either lafresnayei or olivacea. From D. tyrannina tyrannina it 

 differs principally in much smaller size ; rather paler upper and much 

 paler lower parts ; very conspicuous postocular stripe ; and the more 

 ashy chin and cheeks. The two tj^es in the Lafresnaye collection 

 (Nos. 2,308 and 2,309) are the only specimens of this species that have 

 been examined. Both are apparently not quite adult, though fully 

 grown; one of them is considerably more olivaceous than the other, 

 but this seems imdoubtedly to be only an individual difference. They 

 measure as follows: 



* Cf. Saltadori and Festa, Boll. Mus. Zool. ed Anat. Comp. Torino, XV, 

 1899, No. 362, pp. 26-27. 

 5 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1888, p. 493. 

 ® Tip of maxilla broken. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The bird described by Pelzeln as Dendrocincla minor ^ from San 

 Vicente, Matto Grosso, Brazil, which has hitherto remained unidenti- 

 fied, is undoubtedly the same as that previously called atrirostris by 

 Lafresnaye. This is evident from a comparison of the original descrip- 

 tion of minor with the types of atrirostris, which shows a perfect agree- 

 ment both in dimensions and other characters. Furthermore, San 

 Vicente, the type locality of minor, is in southwestern Brazil, not far 

 from Guarayos, Bolivia, whence came the first specimens of atrirostris. 

 This species appears to have a limited distribution, being kno\^^l from 

 only eastern Bolivia and Matto Grosso, Brazil, for all citations of 

 atrirostris from Ecuador and Colombia belong elsewhere. 



Dendrocincla anabatina anabatina Sclater. 



Dendrocincla anabatina Sclater, Proc. Zool. Soc. Loiid., 1859, p. 54, PI. CL. 



Type Locality. — Omoa, Honduras. 



Geographical Distribution. — Southeastern Mexico (Vera Cruz) and 

 Guatemala to Panama. 



One of the most conspicuous forms of the genus. In a general way 

 it resembles Dendrocincla atrirostris, but may at once be distinguished 

 by its immaculate buffj^ or ochraceous buff chin, in sharp contrast to 

 the color of the breast; by the color of the outer webs of the'second- 

 aries, which is tawny or bright tawny-rufous, unique in the genus and 

 strikingly different from the olive-brown of the wing-coverts or the 

 dark fuscous of the tips of the wing-quills ; by a much shorter tail ; as 

 well as by other less obvious characters. Birds from Panama are not 

 distinguishable either in size or color from those of Nicaragua or even 

 the States of Tabasco and "\"era Cruz, Mexico; but those examined 

 from Guatemala are rather paler, though not sufficiently so to warrant 

 either their separation or their reference to typhla. 

 Dendrocincla anabatina typhla, subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Dendrocincla anabatina anabatina, but 

 decidedly paler throughout, particularly on the lower surface. 



Geographical Distribution. — States of Yucatan and Campeche, 

 Mexico. 



Description.— Type, male adult, No. 167,499, U. S. N. M., Biological 

 Survey Collection; Puerto Morelos, Yucatan, Mexico, March 12, 1901; 

 E. W. Nelson and E. A. Goldman. 



Upper parts deep reddish raw-umber brown of decidedly olive shade, 

 rather more rufescent on pileum, where the darker edges of the feathers 

 produce an obscurely squamate effect, paler on rump, and passing into 



^ Orn. Bras., 1868, p. 60. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



deep rufous on the upper tail-coverts; tail chestnut; wing-quills chest- 

 nut along the shafts, dull rufous exteriorly, shading basally into buf! 

 on their inner margins, and broadly tipped with fuscous; superior 

 Tving-coverts rufescent olive-brown like the back; sides of head and 

 neck olive-browm mixed with ochraceous, the lores paler, and a notice- 

 able postocular stripe dull ochraceous; chin buff, shading gradually 

 into the raw-umber hrovm of the remainder of the lower surface; 

 jugulum wdth broad spots and shaft streaks of dull ochraceous; longest 

 lower tail-coverts rufous; lining of wing ochraceous. Wing, 99, tail, 

 75, exposed culmen, 21, tarsus, 25, middle toe, 16.5, 



A local form of rather restricted distribution, specimens of which 

 have been examined from only Yucatan and Campeche, IMexico, those 

 from the latter locality being, however, indistinguishable from Yucatan 

 examples. The type of Dendrocinda anahatina anahatina came from 

 Omoa, Hondm-as, and although this is not far from the eastern part 

 of Yucatan, yet a specimen seen from La Puerta, Honduras, near the 

 type locahty, is decidedly different from tijphla, and indistinguishable 

 from those taken in Guatemala, while one from Santa Ana, Honduras, is 

 still darker. This, therefore, fixes anahatina as the dark form, leaving 

 the Yucatan bird to be supphed with a name, as above. 

 Dendrocinda fuliginosa (Vieillot). 



Dendrocopus fuliginosus Vieillot, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., XXVI, 1818, 

 p. 117. 



Dendrocolaptes fumigatus Liohtenstein, Abhandl. Kon. Alvad. Wiss. Berlin, 

 1820, p. 203 (Cayenne, French Guiana). ^ , 



Dendrocinda rufo-olivacea Ridgway, Proc. United States Nat. Mus., X, 1888, 

 pp. 490, 493 (Diamantina, Lower Amazon, Brazil). 



Type Locality. — Cayenne, French Guiana. 



Geographical Distribution. — Lower Amazonia, south to Bahia, north 

 to British Guiana. 



Similar to D. atrirostris, from which, however, it may readily be dis- 

 tinguished by its much more olivaceous coloration both above and 

 below, as well as its lack of pale shaft streaks on the feathers of the 

 pileum. Its olivaceous colors separate it from also D. anahatina ana- 

 hatina, and in other respects it differs from this form much as D. atri- 

 rostris does. Mr. Ridgway's Dendrocinda rufo-olivacea; which imfor- 

 tunately he was unable to compare ^-ith authentic examples of fuligi- 

 nosa, seems to be identical with D. fuliginosus, as some time ago con- 

 sidered by Sclater;^ so that unless more abundant material should 

 prove it a recognizable geographical race occupying the Amazon valley 



8 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1888, pp. 490, 493. 

 » Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XV, 1890, pp. 165-166. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



from the vicinity of Santarem westward, it must be relegated to syn- 

 onymy. The type and two other specimens from Diamantina, together 

 with one from Para, Brazil, which represent the material at Mr. Ridg- 

 way's disposal when describing rufo-olivacea, have all been examined 

 in the present connection, and these alone, although the only specimens 

 now available, indicate a considerable amount of individual variation 

 in D. fuliginosa. The type of rufo-olivacea and one other from Dia- 

 mantina are evidently much paler, more grayish below than ordinary 

 fuliginosa, and are quite different from the Para specimen, with which, 

 however, the third Diamantina example very closely agrees. 



Dendrocincla turdina (Lichtenstein). 



Dendrocolaptes hirdinus Lichtenstein, Abhandl. Kon. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 

 1820, p. 204, PI. II, fig. 1. 



Type Locality. — Bahia. Brazil. 



Geographical Distribution. — Eastern Brazil (Bahia). 



Resembling D. atrirostris, but apparently larger (wing 100-107 mm.) ; 

 throat and sides of head more rufescent ; exposed surface of wing-cpiills 

 duller, more olivaceous, not so much contrasted with the color of the 

 back; chin paler; ochraceous postocular stripe lacking. From D. 

 fuliginosa it differs in very much more rufescent upper and lower parts ; 

 smaller bill; and conspicuouslj- pale-streaked pileum. 



In the Lafresnaye collection there are two specimens of this species 

 marked as the types ; but this is evidently not quite correct, for they 

 were probably nothing more than the specimens used for description 

 by Lafresnaye in his monograph of the genus Dendrocolaptes,^'^ as the 

 species was originally named by Lichtenstein,^^ and the real type is, 

 or should be, in the Berlin Museum, where many, if not most, of Lich- 

 tenstein's types were deposited. Dr. Sclater records a specimen of 

 Dendrocincla turdina from Rio, Brazil,^- which is possibly to be referred 

 to D. enalincia, though without examination this is of course impossible 

 to determine. The decided variation in size among specimens of 

 this form examined b}^ Dr. Sclater'^ is undoubtedly merely sexual. 



Dendrocincla enalincia, sp. nov. 



Chars, sp. — Resembling Dendrocincla turdina, but upper and lower 

 parts, including the wings, much more olivaceous; sides of head paler 

 and more grayish, not so sharply defined against the light color of the 



>» Rev. Zool., 1851, p. 46.5. 



'1 Abhandl. Kon. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 1820, p. 204. PI. II, fig. 1. 



^"■Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., XV, 1890, p. 167. 



*^ Loc. cit. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



throat; exposed surface of closed ^vings, and the broad fuscous tips of 

 the wing-quills darker; upper surface of the shafts of the rectrices 

 mostly deep brownish-black, instead of reddish-bro^ii, the fourth and 

 fifth pair of tail feathers with a large blackish terminal area on the 

 inner webs; mandible (in skin) less yellowish; lining of wing paler. 



Geographical Distribution. — Southeastern Brazil. 



Description. — Type, adult, No. 177,707, U. S. N. M., Bauru, Rio Feio, 

 Sao Paulo, Brazil, 1901 ; E. Garbe. 



Upper surface rufescent olive-brown, the rump decidedly paler, the 

 longest superior tail-coverts chestnut, the feathers of pileum with tawny 

 ochraeeous shaft streaks which are most conspicuous anteriorly; tail 

 chestnut, the upper surface of the shafts brownish-black, the fifth pair 

 of tail feathers, counting from the outside, having the inner webs 

 broadly tipped with blackish, the same existing though to a less degree 

 on the fourth pair; inner webs of wing-quills basally chestnut, paler on 

 their margins; outer webs of primaries and broad terminal portions 

 on both vanes of primaries and secondaries fuscous, these tips largest on 

 the primaries, more narrow and confined largely to the inner webs on 

 the secondaries, almost absent on the tertials; remaining portions of 

 exterior webs of secondaries reddish olive-bro\\'n ; upper wing-coverts 

 olive-brown like the back, though rather darker and duller; lores dull 

 grayish-brown, with buffy shaft streaks; cheeks and auriculars of 

 similar color, but somewhat darker and more rufescent, with buffy 

 shaft lines, these most conspicuous on the auriculars; sides of neck 

 like the back, but lighter and somewhat more grayish; chin wood- 

 brown; under tail-coverts light chestnut; remainder of lower parts 

 raw-umber brown, more grayish on the breast, lighter on the throat, 

 the feathers of which have buffy shafts; color of the throat passing 

 gradually into that of the paler chin and the darker sides of the head; 

 lining of wing ochraceous-buff. Wing, 106 ; tail, 87; exposed culmen, 

 22; tarsus, 24; middle toe, 17. 



In a considerable series of typical Dendrocincla turdina, exhibiting 

 the usual amount of individual variation in depth and shade of color 

 to which members of this genus are commonly subject, there is no 

 specimen that can be considered intermediate between turdina and 

 enalincia. In view of this, as well as of the fact that in Dendrocincla 

 perfectly distinct species are often very much alike, enalincia, on ac- 

 count of its decided characters, has here been given full specific rank, 

 although it may in time prove to be but the southern subspecific 

 representative of D. turdina. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Dendrocincla merula (Lichtenstein). 



DendrocoJapfes meruln Lichtenstein, Abhandl. Kon. Akad. Wiss. Berlin, 



1820, p. 208. 

 Dendrocincla casfanoptera Ridgway, Proc. United States Nat, Mus., X, 1888, 



pp. 490, 494 (Diamantina, Lower Amazon, Brazil). 



Type Locality. — Cayenne, French Guiana. 



Geographical Distribution. — Valley of the Amazon, to eastern Peru; 

 north to British Guiana and the Orinoco river, Venezuela. 



This very distinct species resembles to some extent D. tiirdina, but 

 is darker above; very much darker, more olivaceous below; the throat 

 is more whitish ; the pileum without pale shaft streaks ; the wings are 

 clear chestnut instead of tinged with ohvaceous, being thus more con- 

 trasted with the color of the back; and the hning of the wing is darker. 



The specimen of this species in the Lafresnaye collection, marked 

 ''type" (No, 2,304), is probably only the specimen used by Lafresnaye 

 for descriptive purposes, as Lichtenstein's original example is still in 

 the Berlin Museum. Mr. Ridgway's Dendrocincla castanoptera^* is 

 regrettably a synonym of D. merula, for the type and one other speci- 

 men now in the U. S. National Museum do not differ in any essential 

 respect from two examples in the collection of the American Museum 

 of Natural History, taken by S. M. Klages at Suapure, Venezuela, nor 

 from the Lafresnaye specimen above mentioned. The two examples 

 of castanoptera are considerably smaller than the Lafresnaye specimen 

 of merula with which Mr, Ridgway compared them, but this is certainly 

 but a sexual distinction. This sexual difference may easily be appre- 

 ciated by reference to the following comparative measurements: 



Dendrocincla olivacea olivacea Lawrence. 



Dendrocincla olivacea Lawrence, Ann. N. Y. Lye Nat. Hist., VII, 1862, p. 

 466. 



Type Low/iY;/.— Panama R. R., Atlantic side of Isthmus of Panama. 



Geographical Distribution. — Panama to southern Honduras. 



Similar to D. fuUginosa. but darker above and below; the exposed 

 surface of wing-quills much more olivaceous than the tail, instead of 

 being of the same color. From D. menda it differs in having the 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 18S8. pp. 490, 494. 



15 Lafresnaye Collection, No. 2,304, the reputed "type" of Dendrocincla merula. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



notaeum more olivaceous; wing-quills much washed with olivaceous; 

 upper wing-coverts olive-brown in place of mostly chestnut; sides of 

 head more ashy; throat less whitish; lower sm-face paler, rather more 

 rufescent, and a slight ochraceous postocular stripe. It is very dis- 

 tinct from Dendrocmcla atrirostris bj^ reason of its decidedly darker, 

 more olivaceous upper parts ; olivaceous tinged wing-quills ; more 

 deeply colored, rather more olivaceous ventral surface; almost obso- 

 lete ochraceous postocular stripe; and lack of pale shaft streaks on 

 the pileum. 



Mr. Ridgway'^ was the first after Lawrence to recognize this species as 

 distinct from D. atrirostris, although it is much more closel}^ allied to 

 D. fuliginosa and D. merida than to D. atiirostris. The specimens 

 from Guayaquil, Ecuador, placed imder this form by Mr. Ridgway.*^ 

 belong, however, under D. olivacea lafresnayei, since true olivacea 

 must be restricted to Central America. Birds from Panama are in- 

 termediate between olivacea and lafresnayei, but nearer the former. 



Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayei (Ridgway). 



Dendrocincla lafresnayei Ridgway, Proc. United States Xat. Mus., X, 1888, 



pp. 489, 492 (Upper Amazon?). 

 Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayi Allen, Bull. Amer. ^lus. Xat. Hist., XIII, 



1900, p. 156. 

 Dendrocincla olivacea anguina Bangs, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XII, 1898, 



p. 138 (Santa Marta, Colombia). 



Type Locality. — Upper Amazon River. 



Geographical Distribution. — Ecuador and Colombia. 



Like Dendrocincla olivacea olivacea in size ; but in color lighter, more 

 rufescent above and below, the lining of wing paler. From D. atri- 

 rostris it may be distinguished principally by lack of pale shaft streaks 

 on the pileum; obsolescent or absent ochraceous postocular stripe; 

 more olivaceous upper surface; and conspicuously more olivaceous 

 wings. 



As may thus easily be seen, lafresnayei is far more nearly related to 

 D. olivacea, D. fuliginosa, and even D. meridoides than to D. atrirostris, 

 although nearly all writers excepting Mr. Ridgway have, at least in part, 

 confused lafresnayei with atrirostris; and all records of atrirostris or 

 olivacea from Ecuador or Colombia refer undoubtedly to the present 

 form. Examples from. Ecuador seem to agree with the type, and those 

 from Colombia are not separable from either. A series of some eleven 

 specimens from the Santa Marta region, Colombia, including the type 

 and original suite of Mr. Bangs' D. olivacea anguina,^'' exhibits a 



18 Proc. U. S. Nat. Miis., X, 1888, p. 492. 

 " Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XII, 1898, p. 138. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [April, 



considerable amount of individual variation in the depth and shade 

 of color, both on the upper and lower surfaces, which differences com- 

 prise all that appear to distinguish anguina from lafresyiayei; in conse- 

 quence of which anguina must be considered a synonym, as has 

 already iDcen indicated by Dr. Allen. ^^ 



The specimen in the Lafresnaye collection labelled as one of the types 

 of D. atrirostris, and referred l)}^ Mr. Ridgway to D. olivacea,^^ is un- 

 doubtedly an example of lafresnayei. Specimens of olivacea from 

 Panama, clearly intermediate between olivacea and lafresnayei, point 

 conclusively to the necessity of using a trinomial for the latter. 



Dendrocincla olivacea phaeocliroa (Berlepsch and Hartert). 



Dendrocinda (sic) pJucochroa Berlepsch and Hartert, Novit. ZooL, IX, 1902, 

 p. 67. 



Type Locality. — ]\Iunduapo. Orinoco river, Venezuela. 



Geographical Distribut io n . — ^^ene z uel a . 



Very close to Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayei, and in size and gen- 

 eral color both above and IdcIow not distinguishable ; iDut it has the 

 chin and cheeks less graj'ish. as well as the chestnut of the wing-qviills 

 less washed with olivaceous. It differs more decidedly from true 

 olivacea, however, in its lighter, more rufescent coloration, more ochra- 

 ceous chin, and less olivaceous wdng-quills. From D. merula, although 

 of the same size, it may be readily distinguished by its paler, rather 

 more olivaceous upper parts; much lighter, more rufescent or ochra- 

 ceous ventral surface, the throat buffy or ochraceous instead of whitish 

 or grayish ; lighter lores ; and a slightly evident ochraceous postocular 

 stripe. 



Three specimens in the collection of the American Museum of Natural 

 History, collected by S. M. Klages in ^'enezuela — two from Suapure, 

 one from La Union, Caura — agree perfectly with Messrs. Berlepsch and 

 Hartert's original description of pJueochroa. These have l^een carefully 

 compared with the type of lafresnayei as well as with the considerable 

 series of that form at present availal^le, with the result of demonstrating 

 that phceochroa is at l^est Ijut a subspecies of olivacea, since the only 

 characters discernible to separate it from lafresnayei are shown to be 

 not entirely constant; yet it still is probably quite entitled to stand as 

 a geographical race on its merits as above said. 



Dendrocincla ridgwayi, sp. nov. 



Chars, sp. — Similar to Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayei, l)ut larger; 



18 Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., XIII, 1900, p. 156. 

 " Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1888, p. 492. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



chin, lores, cheeks, and auriculars less ashy; entire upper and lower 

 surfaces, including the wings, much more strongly rufescent. 



Geographical Distribution. — Costa Rica. 



Description.— Ty^e, adult male, No. 64,819, U. S. N. M. ; Talamanca, 

 Costa Rica, 1873; J. C. Zeledon. 



Upper surface deep reddish mummy-brown, rather paler and more 

 grayish on the pileum, lighter and somewhat more rufous on the rump, 

 the longest upper tail-coverts chestnut ; tail chestnut ; wings chestnut, 

 the exposed surface rather duller and slightly tinged with olivaceous, 

 the tips of outermost primaries broadly fuscous, the inner inargins of 

 the quills basally ochraceous, all the superior wdng-coverts mummy- 

 brown, somewhat less rufescent than the back; a short, narrow, poorly 

 indicated ochaceous postocular stripe ; lores dull brownish-gray; sides 

 of head dull mummy-brown, the auriculars with paler shaft streaks ; 

 chin dull grayish-brown, lighter than the remainder of the lower surface 

 which, excepting the chestnut under tail-coverts, is dull, dark, rufescent 

 tawny-olive brown; lining of wing tawny-ochraceous. Wing, 115; 

 tail. 96; exposed culmen, 2%f tarsus, 25.5; middle toe, IS. 



This new species appears to be undoubtedly most closely allied to 

 Dendrocincla olivacea lafresnayei. From D. olivacea olivacea, whose 

 territory it inhabits, it differs in much the same respects as from lafres- 

 nayei, but more strongly. The type and sole specimen has been for 

 some years in the U. S. National Museum collection, and has been 

 successively identified as D. merula, D. olivacea and D. atrirostris! It 

 seems to be undoubtedly a distinct and hitherto undescribed species, 

 for its peculiarities are not such as appear readily or satisfactorily 

 explainable on grounds of individual variation. It bears its present 

 name in honor of Mr. Robert Ridgway, as a shght token of the author's 

 appreciative esteem. 



Dendrocincla meruloides meruloides (Lafresnaye). 



Dendrocops meruloides Lafresnaye, Rev. Zool., 1851, p. 467. 

 Dendrocincla merulina Cabanis and Heine, Mus. Hein., II, 1859, p. 34 (nom. 

 emend, pro Dendrocops meruloides Lafresnaj'e). 



Type Locality. — "Cote ferme" (= British Guiana). 



Geographical Distribution. — British Guiana. 



Similar to D. ridgwayi, but smaller and more brightly colored; 

 cheeks and chin more rufescent; superior wing-coverts and wing- 

 quills less inclined to olivaceous. 



The type of this species, which is now in the Museum of the Boston 

 Society of Natural History, along with the rest of the Lafresnaye col- 



^^ Tip of maxilla broken. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April 



lection, has been compared with specimens from British Guiana and 

 found to be identical, from which the assumption is apparently safe 

 that it hailed originally from that region, particularly as the birds from 

 Venezuela prove to be different. It is evidently an adult female, and 

 measures as follows: Wing, 95; tail, 73; exposed culmen,20.5; tarsus, 

 24.5; middle toe, 14.5. All the specimens of true meruloides exam- 

 ined are females, and agree in size with those of the same sex of D. 

 meruloides aphanta. The measurements of meruloides given by Mr. 

 Ridgway-' are also based on female examples, and are therefore too 

 small. The name Dendrocinda merulina of Cabanis and Heine-- is a 

 mere puristic emendation of D. meruloides, and must therefore be 

 considered identical in application. 



Dendrocinda meruloides aphanta, subsp. nov. 



Chars, suhsp. — Like Dendrocinda meruloides meruloides, but chin 

 and sides of head usually more grayish; entire upper and lower 

 surfaces, particularly the former, much more olivaceous. 



Geographiced Distribution. — Tobago, Trinidad, and Venezuela. 



Description.— Type, adult female. No. 74,883, U. S. N. M. ; Tobago, 

 West Indies, April, 1878; F. A. Ober. 



Upper parts deep rufescent tawny-olive, darker on the pileum, 

 where the feathers have dusky margins, paler and brighter on the 

 rump, the longest upper tail-coverts chestnut; tail chestnut; wings 

 chestnut, the inner margins of the quills basally ochraceous, the second- 

 aries with terminal shaft streaks of dusky, the outer webs of the outer- 

 most primaries and broad tips of all fuscous, the superior wing-coverts 

 like the back, save for those of the greater series, which are rather more 

 reddish; lores dull brownish-gray; auriculars the same but darker; 

 remainder of sides of head and neck brown like the back; under tail- 

 coverts chestnut, but lighter than the tail; all the remaining lower 

 surface rufescent tawny-olive, like the upper parts, but lighter, the 

 chin and upper throat decidedly grayish ; lining of wing tawny-ochra- 

 ceous. Wing, 92; tail, 73; exposed culmen, 22.5; tarsus, 23; middle 

 toe, 15. 



""■ Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 18S8, p. 490. 

 -2 Mus. Hein., II, 1859, p. 34. 




1904.] NATUKAL SaENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 46 1 



The measurements of five adult males are as below: 



This new race differs from D. olivacea lafresnayei in its decidedly 

 more rufescent coloration both above and below; less ashy chin and 

 cheeks, the former more uniform ^nth the breast ; and less olivaceous 

 upper sm-face of the wings. It is much more rufescent throughout than 

 D. olivacea phceochroa, with the chin not conspicuously different from 

 the rest of the lower parts. 



Specimens from Venezuela are apparently like the type ; but a con- 

 siderable series from Trinidad exhibits some individual color variations, 

 while as a whole it is intermediate between aphanta and meruloides , 

 though decidedly nearer the former. 



Dendrocincia ruficeps (Sclater and Salvin). 



Dendrocincla ruficeps Sclater and Salvin, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1868, p. 54. 



Type Locality. — Panama City, Panama. 



Geographical Distribution. — Panama. 



Resembles D. meruloides meruloides, but is much darker throughout, 

 particularly on the abdomen; the chin, however, is lighter, and de- 

 cidedly contrasted with the breast ; sides of head more rufescent ; the 

 pileum still more so, and conspicuously different from the distinctly 

 olivaceous back. 



A very satisfactory series of eleven specimens of D. ruficeps, while it 

 evidences considerable individual difference in color, yet appears to 

 establish beyond reasonable doubt the validity of the species; for none 

 of these examples are so reddish on the back, rump, and lower surface 

 as either homochroa or acedesta. Wlien Mr. Ridgway wrote^^ he had 

 no specimens of real ruficeps, and all the birds referred by him to this 

 form, and upon which he predicated its subspecific relationship with 

 D. homochroa, prove to belong ^dthout doubt to Dendrocincla homochroa 

 acedesta. The localities from which specimens have been examined 



' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X, 1888, p. 491. 




462 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



by the present writer are Boquete and El Banco, Chiriqiii, and the 

 Panama Railroad, Panama. 



Five adult males show the f ollowino; dimensions : 



Dendrocincla homochroa homochroa (Sclater). 



Dendromanes homochrous Sclater, Proe. Zool. Soc. London, 1859, p. 382, 



Tjjpe Locality. — Teotalcingo, Oaxaca, Mexico. 



Geographical Distribution. — Southern Mexico (Oaxaca, Campeche, 

 and Yucatan) and Guatemala, 



In size like D. ruficeps, and otherwise similar, but of a lighter, brighter 

 rufous throughout; the back, rump, and ventral surface less olivaceous; 

 the pileum less trenchantly defined from the back. It resembles also 

 D. mcruloicles meruloides, but in color is much brighter rufous; the 

 pileum is rufous-chestnut, instead of olive-rufous, and is more con- 

 trasted with the back ; the am-iculars are rufous in place of olive-brown ; 

 the throat and sides of the head much more rufescent. 



This is the brightest rufous of all the species of the genus. Birds 

 from Yucatan and Campeche, Mexico, seem to be rather paler than 

 those from Guatemala, but the difference is barely appreciable, 



Dendrocincla homochroa acedesta, subsp. nov. 



Chars, subsp. — Similar to Dendrocincla honiochroa homochroa, but 

 larger; decidedly darker and rather more olivaceous throughout. 



Geographical Distribution. — Panama, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. 



Description.— Ty^Q, adult male. No. 62,043, U, S. N, M. ; Chiriqui, 

 Panama; Enrique Arce. 



Upper surface burnt-umber brown with a slight olive shade, the 

 pileum more rufescent, the rump also more reddish, and paler, the 

 longest upper tail-coverts chestnut; tail and wings, including the upper 

 wing-coverts, chestnut, the primaries tipped with fuscous; sides of neck 

 and head dull reddish-brown, the lores dull light browaiish-gray ; chin 

 dull tawny; under tail-coverts chestnut; rest of ventral surface dull 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



463 



reddish-brown like the back, but somewhat paler; lining of wing light 

 chestnut. 



Five adult males exhibit the following measurements : 



Locality. 



Wing. 



Tail. Exposed 

 Culm en 



-••;■■; ■": 105 



Chiriqui, Veragua, Panama 105 



,, " " " '' ; 107 



Navarro, Costa Rica 107 



Sacuya, Nicaragua 106 



Average. 



77 



78 



84 



82.5 



81.5 



23 

 23 

 24 

 26 

 25 



Tarsus. 



Middle 

 Toe. 



27 



26.5 



26 



26.5 



25.5 



106 



80.6 ! 24.2 



26.3 



17 

 17 

 17 

 16 



17 



16.8 



ion 



This form of Dendrocinda, though occupying in part the same reg 

 as D. ruficeps, is apparently distmct, differing in its larger size ; much 

 more reddish rump, back, and lower parts; and more uniform' upper 

 surface, the pileum being in color less definitely distinct from the inter- 

 scapular region. 



-* Lafresnaye Collection, No. 2,310. 

 « Type. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



POST-GLACIAL NEARCTIC CENTRES OF DISPERSAL FOR REPTILES. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



If lasting values are to be reached in the study of geographical dis- 

 tribution, its conclusions must accord with all else that is know^^ of 

 the dynamics of evolution. Or, stated with more- exact reference to 

 its especial problems, the areas marked off by it must correspond to 

 the distributional relations of genetically connected species and, at 

 the least, must not be at fault with possible Imes of dispersal from 

 centres of development by which they may have come to occupj^ their 

 present range. What is proposed here is an attempt to determine such 

 centres for Reptilia in North America. 



The scarcity of Tertiary remains of reptiles belonging to existing 

 groups confines the student of geographical distribution in the main 

 to post-glacial conditions, with little more knowledge of those pre- 

 ceding than the practical certainty that genera now widely ranging 

 are of great antiquity and were likewise wide ranging in earlier periods, 

 and that a former north Atlantic land connection between Europe 

 and America must have coincided with a climate of sufficient warmth 

 to serve for the passage of reptiles belonging to genera now common 

 to both. 



In other ways the problem is simplified by the absence in later periods 

 of a circumpolar reptilian fauna, a consequence of which is that the 

 chief zoological bond of connection between the eastern and western 

 continents is wanting, and for reptiles a "Holarctic" region or an 

 "Arctogsean" realm can not be said to exist, the families and genera 

 common to more southern portions of both being insufficient to 

 link them. For this reason Mr. Sclater's term ''Nearctic" is used 

 here. It should be said, however, that if for purposes of convenience or 

 uniformity it be desired to retain these later and broader generaliza- 

 tions, no harm is likely to ensue if it be remembered that they do not 

 express the exact facts of present reptilian distribution, whatever they 

 may have been during the Tertiary. 



A further simplification results in northern regions from this same 

 absence of boreal reptiles, for it eliminates the meeting ground of a 

 northern with a southern migration, which constitutes the "Transition" 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



zone of various authors in other groups. If a transition zone existed 

 in the Nearctic for reptiles it would follow meridians of longitude west 

 of the Mississippi river, instead of extending from c ast to west. 



I ha\'e stated elsewhere* that the present distribution of Nearctic 

 reptiles points to the two post-glacial centres indicated by Prof. C. C. 

 Adams/ one in the southeastern Austroriparian, the other southwest- 

 ern, in the Sonoran. Some space must now be given to the evidence. 



In the same paper it was shown that m the southern Nearctic the 

 eastern and western reptilian faunas are so distinct that the community 

 between them is limited to a few species belonging to widely ranging 

 genera, and that the zone of change between them lies approximately 

 between the 96° and 98° meridians of longitude in Texas. In a 

 general way this zone may be carried north along those meridians, to 

 mark the separation between the whole Atlantic and the whole Sonoran 

 faunas, widening, however, toward the north in following up the rivers 

 of the Mississippi drainage. 



The division is in some measure obscured by the presence in the 

 lowlands of the Mississippi and its tributaries of a few species, chiefly 

 serpents, originally derived from both faunas and occupying the 

 contiguous portions of their respective areas. 



The proposition that original post-glacial centres must have lain 

 far to the south, is more logically necessary in the case of reptiles than 

 with other vertebrates, and follows from their dependence as a class 

 upon warmth. If further evidence were needed, it would be found in 

 their great numerical superiority, both in species and iiidividuals, in the 

 south. The whole extent of North America reaching from the border 

 of the great plains eastward to the Atlantic coast, and from the Gulf 

 of Mexico to the northern limit of reptiles, which, following Agassiz, 

 will here be known as the Atlantic subregion, to avoid confusion 

 with Its Eastern district, contains 113 species and recognizable sub- 

 species in all orders of reptiles. Of these 56 are confined to some por- 

 tion of the Austroriparian district, and 15 are exclusively Eastern 

 with 42 common to both, practically all of which are southern intru- 

 sions to varying distances into the Eastern. In the western Nearctic 

 the distribution of species is vastly more complex as to its details 

 on account of the great variety of surrounding conditions in contiguous 

 areas produced by rapid changes in altitude, and is not yet fully known 

 but the excess of southern species is even greater, for assuming that 

 5'l^^^^;i;^^^n^s_dnasi^^ from the western border of the 



I Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., 1903, p. 551 

 Biological Bulletin, Vol. Ill, p. 121 (1902). 

 •SO 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Atlantic subregion to the Pacific coast into a Lower and an Upper 

 Sonoran accords best with present knowledge, the Lower Sonoran 

 seems to have about 74 peculiar species, and the Upper Sonoran plus 

 his Transition has but about 13, with 35 common to both, of which 

 19 may be regarded as Lower Sonoran and only 6 as Upper. The 

 remainder belong to the Atlantic fauna. It should be explained that 

 these estimates are based upon a somewhat conservative view as to 

 species, but if the method of minute analysis characteristic of the pres- 

 ent time be followed, the predominance of Lower Sonoran forms will be 

 even greater. 



Both from the logical necessity of the case and from the application 

 of one of the main criteria in common use, it seems clear that the areas 

 which at the retreat of the ice contained the elements from which our 

 present reptilian fauna has developed, must be sought for in the south. 



The briefest examination of the character and the abounding rich- 

 ness of the reptiles inhabiting the dry plateau extending from Texas 

 to Arizona and south into Mexico, as well as the physical geography 

 of the whole Sonoran subregion, are enough to show that the dispersal 

 centre of that faura M-as hfre, in Cope's Chihuahuan. 



The Austroriparian is less clear without close examination of evi- 

 dence. Two localities in this subregion excel all others in variety of 

 species, one in the extreme southeast toward Georgia and Florida, cor- 

 responding to the fauna termed by Cope Ocmulgian; the other, or 

 Louisianan, on the lower Mississippi. Fifty-one species are common to 

 both, and in addition the Ocmulgian, including Cope's Floridan, 

 presents 21 not extending into the Louisianan, which in turn has 14, 

 one half of them, however, only entering its western border from the 

 Sonoran. Of the two the Ocmulgian shows a decidedly greater diver- 

 sity in species. 



A study in some detail of the genera points in the same direction. 

 Little argument is required to demonstrate the proposition that genera 

 now common to the Nearctic and the western Palsearctic must have 

 had that range established at a time when a Tertiary north Atlantic 

 land connection coincided with a w^aim climate in the north, for the 

 absence from all beyond the northern border of the Neotropical of 

 such vigorous Nearctic genera as Coluber, Zamenis, Tropidonotus, 

 Eutcenia, Ophiholns and others, which are identical with or nearly re- 

 lated to Holarctic genei'a, renders it impossible that such community 

 in northern regions could have come about by means of the Antarctic 

 continent whose former existence is now urged by many palaeontolo- 

 gists, however well this would serve to explain such anomalies as the 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



467 



presence of pleurodire turtles in South America, and of two genera of 

 Neotropical Boida3 in Madagascar. It has been showai by Heer, in 

 his researches upon Arctic fossil plants, that in the process of secular 

 cooling the mean temperature of northern Greenland, as late as the 

 early Miocene, was not far removed from that of central Virginia at 

 the present time — quite warm enough for the needs of such hardy stocks 

 as the genera above named — and the differentiation of reptiles of 

 modern types" had progressed so far by the close of the Mesozoic, that 

 not much risk is incurred in believing that many existing genera were 

 in existence long before the end of the Eocene. Assuming a north 

 Atlantic highroad to have been the means of communication, the 

 longest Nearctic establishment of these common forms is likely to 

 have been in the older geological regions far in the east. It is further 

 true that with many of them traces of their primitive representatives 

 appear to be found in existing species of the eastern part of the Austro- 

 riparian. 



Omitting mere Neotropical intrusions into the southern border of 

 the Nearctic, such as Alligator, Crocodilus, Anolis, Sphcerodactylus , 

 Helicops, Spilotes, Rhadinea, Drymobius, Tantilla, ErytJirolamprus 

 and Elaps, as well as Trionyx, Chelydra, Emys and Testudo, each of 

 which had a wide Tertiary extension in northern regions, but whose 

 recent distribution throws no further light on the present question, 

 most of the remaining genera may be referred for their origin to the 

 Austroriparian or Lower Sonoran faunas. 



A ustroriparian : 



Macroclemmys 



Aromochelys 



Cinosternum 



Chrysemys 



Malaclemmys 



Terrapene 



Ophisaurus 



Liolepisma 



Rhineura 



Eutoenia 



Tropidonotus 



Seminatrix 



Storeria 



Clonophis 



Tropidocloniiim 



Haldea 



Amphiardis 



Coluber 



Zamenis 



Cyclophis 



Liopeltis 



Diadophis 



Ophibolus 



Stilosoma 



Carphophis 



Farancia 



Abastor 



Virginia 



Cemophora 



Heterodon 



Ancislrodon 




46S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Lower Sonoran: 



Ctenosaura 

 Dipsosaurus 

 Crotaphytus 

 ■Sauromalus 

 Callisaurus 

 •Uma 



Holbrookia 

 Uta 



■Sceloporus 

 Phrynosoma 

 Eublepharis 

 Heloderma 



Gerrhonoius 



Xantusia 



Verticaria 



Cnemidophorus 



Eumeces 



Anniclla 



Glaucoma 



Lichanura 



Charina 



Arizona 



Pityophis 



Salvadora 



Phyllorhynclms 



Contia 



Ficimia 



Chilomeniscus 



Rhinochilus 



Hypsiglena 



Trimorphodon 



Sibon 



Sistrurus 



Crotolus 



In searching for the localities which may l)e conceived to have 

 been those of the Nearctic origin of genera, it is to be observed that 

 little is to be learned from Chelonia, for the aquatic habits of most of 

 the order renders them relatively untrustworthy as guides in terrestrial 

 distribution and, furthermore, we are as yet ignorant of the characters 

 in most genera which should be regarded as primitive. Nevertheless, 

 it is obvious that conditions best favoring the development of fresh- 

 water turtles must have always been far more completely presented 

 in the well watered Atlantic subregion than in the arid Sonoran. 



In Cinosternidae the extensive range of the Atlantic species, Cino- 

 sternum pennsylvanicum and Aromochelys odoratus, favors the view 

 that they have been longest established, and it would appear further 

 that the Louisianan and Sonoran species do not exhibit any great 

 amount of differentiation from these forms. 



Of the thirteen species of Chrysemys found in the whole Nearctic, 

 ten are restricted to the Atlantic subregion. Eight of these are Austro- 

 riparian, three of them entering the Eastern. The near relationship 

 between C. concinna, C. mobilensis, C. scabra and C. rubriventris . all 

 especially numerous on the southeastern coast, points to their long 

 presence there. 



In the Nearctic, Emys and Clemmys are confined to the Eastern, 

 with the exception of one species of Clemmys on the Pacific coast, 

 but each has a representative in the Palsearctic, and Emys is known 

 from the Eocene of both continents. No reason can be assigned for 

 their present limited Nearctic range, which must be looked upon as 

 one of the anomalies of survival of ancient forms. 



The box tortoises of the genus Terrapene range everj^where east of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 469 



the Rocky mountains, but if the view of Dr. Baur be accepted, that the 

 gradual disappearance of the quadrato-jugal is a progressive character, 

 T. major of the southern Austroriparian and T. hauri of Florida are 

 the most primitive. 



A distinctly negative character of the whole Atlantic subregion 

 is its poverty in lizards, their almost complete absence being, in fact, 

 the correlative of an abundance of water turtles. Its lizards are So- 

 noran, with the exception of Ophisaurus, restricted to the Austro- 

 riparian, whose close relationship to the Palsearctic Pseiidopus justifies 

 placing its original centre along the Atlantic coast, and Rhineura, now 

 only found in Florida, but perhaps known from the Oligocene of Da- 

 kota. Ldolepisma laterale, which occupies only the Austroriparian 

 and the southeastern corner of the Eastern as far as New Jersey, 

 belongs to a genus of wide extension in the Austrahan, Ethiopian and 

 Oriental regions, but having no other representative in the Holarctic 

 except one in China, whose specific characters are identical with it.^ 

 This instance conforms to the unknown law which has preserved 

 on the eastern shores of Asia and North America so many allied rem- 

 nants of ancient groups among both animals and plants. 



More exact e\'idence is afforded by Ophidia, for with two exceptions 

 it is believed that the genera now widely spread in the Nearctic can 

 be shown to have probably originated in the eastern centre. Of those 

 more locally restricted, which must in most cases be descendants of 

 these earlier forms, a difficulty must be admitted in the comparative 

 absence of structural clues to relationship, especially in Colubridge. 

 The relative position assigned to genera by Mr. Boulenger, however, 

 merits a high degree of confidence and has been much relied upon. 

 It may be added that there are quite enough cases where high proba- 

 bility can be assm-ed, to warrant propositions with which the uncertain 

 ones at least fail to conflict. 



The genus Tropidonotus, cosmopolitan as to the greater life areas 

 except that it enters only the northern border of the Neotropical, in 

 the Nearctic is absent from the Pacific coast, and in fact enters the 

 Sonoran only by its river bottoms, from which the assumption is 

 justified that it originally entered North America from western 

 Europe. The common species of the whole Atlantic subregion, 

 Tropidonotus sipedon, seems quite surely to have been near the parent 

 form, though it is less clear which of the two subspecies, T. s. sipedon 

 or T. s. fasciatus, should be regarded. The young of both, as a rule. 



3 Boulenger, Cat. of Lizards, Vol. Ill, p. 264. 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



have the color pattern of the adults, but more or less cross-banding 

 with narrow interspaces frequently replaces the spots on the forepart 

 of the body in young and some adult T. s. sipcdon, resembling those 

 which form the normal pattern on the whole length in eastern examples 

 of T. s. fasciatus — a fact which perhaps signifies the partial retention of 

 an ancestral pattern, now completely lost in the third subspecies, T. s. 

 transversus of the Louisianan fauna. It is probable that T. s. fasciatus 

 of the southeast represents the earliest form. Within the bounds of 

 the Ocmulgian, T. cyclopeum and T. taxispilotus have developed 

 from T. sipedon, while farther west, in the Mississippi valley, the way 

 to T. rhombifer was through T. s. transversus. The whole of the ill- 

 defined series grouped about T. compressicaudus and T. ustus is Flori- 

 dan and shows the wealth of differentiation, still unstable as to fixity 

 of character, which has resulted in the Ocmulgian under conditions 

 highly favorable to the genus. There seems no clue to the direct ori- 

 gin of the group of species represented hj T. leberis and its allies, with 

 seventeen or nineteen rows of scales and longitudinal stripes, but it is 

 worth noting that a similar distribution of color occurs m a number of 

 eastern Palsearctic and Oriental Tropidonotus. 



Separated structurally from the foregoing genus only by its entire 

 anal plate is Eutcenia, which covers the whole Nearctic to the northern 

 limit of snakes, and perhaps equals in number of individuals all other 

 species combined. From its cosmopolitan extension Tropidonotus 

 must be the parent. It is suggestive that the eastern form of the com- 

 mon garter snake, known as E. sirtalis ordinatus, with dark spots on 

 a greenish ground and no stripes, much resembles some color phases 

 of Tropidonotus natrix of Europe, and has like it nineteen rows of 

 scales and seven upper labials. The yellow collar of T. natrix is not 

 known in any race of E. sirtalis, but it possibly reappears in the pale 

 postoral crescents of some Sonoran species, as E. marciana and E. 

 hammondi. 



E. s. ordinatus grades into E. s. sirtalis, whose western representative, 

 E. s. parietalis, on the Pacific coast rims into E. elegans through such 

 examples as those which Cope regarded as E. infernalis,* and in the 

 southwestern Sonoran into E. marciana, E. hammondi and E. eques. 



The species of the great plains, E. radix, has commonly twenty-one 

 scale rows and seven upper labials, but often presents the scutellation 

 of E. sirtalis and probably is derived from it, an important change 

 being that the lateral stripe has moved up one row of scales. And it 



^ A. E. Brown, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., 1903, p. 288, etc. 




1904.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



471 



is of interest here to note that certain garter snakes from Indiana, 

 about the eastern limit of E. radix, called by Cope E. butleri, show irreg- 

 ularities in the position of the lateral stripe perhaps indicating transi- 

 tion. E. radix is a connecting link on the one hand with E. proxima 

 of the Mississippi valley, which in the east has given off E. saurita 

 and E. sackeni, and on the other, in the southwest with E. 7negalops 

 and doubtles other Mexican forms. 



If this hypothetical family-tree of Eutasnia is correct, an interesting 

 lesson in lines of dispersal of Austroriparian genera may be gained 

 from their diagrammatic representation : 



E. s. leptocephala 

 E. s. pickeringi 



E. e. elegans 



E. e. vagrans 



E. hammondr 

 E. eques/ 



E. marciana 



E. megalops 



E. s. parietalis 



E. radix 



E. s. ordinatus 

 -E. s. sirtalis 



E. proxima 



E. saurita 



E. sackeni 



Of the remaining so-called Natricinae, all of which are small and 

 more or less degenerate representatives of Tropidonotus and EutoBnia 

 or of the stock from which they came, the most widely spread genera, 

 Storeria, Haldea and Virginia are chiefly Atlantic, Seminatrix is 

 wholly Ocmulgian, Tropidoonium, of limited range and probably of 

 relatively late origin, belongs to the Mississippi valley, and the very 

 few specimens of Amphiardis known are from Dallas, Texas, on the 

 western borderland of the Austroriparian. 



Among other widely ranging genera, Zamenis is an ancient form 

 whose present distribution includes also the Palsearctic and Oriental 

 regions. The earliest Nearctic style seems likely to be represented by 

 Z. flageUum flagellum, which belongs to the Ocmulgian centre. The 

 young of this species show narrow cross-bands, and occasionally much 

 wider ones, as well as a tendency to form narrow stripes on the centres 

 of some of the lateral scale rows, all of these being present as diagnostic 

 characters in various combination in adults of most other American 

 species. The inequality of color between the anterior and posterior 

 portions of the body, characteristic of all, is most pronounced in 

 Z. f. flagellum. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Coluber has about the same range as Zamenis, but in the Nearctic 

 does not pass beyond the Rocky mountains. The distribution of 

 color most common in the genus consists of three rows of spots, but 

 in many species, especially in America, there is a disposition for these 

 to run together by their corners and form longitudinal stripes. This 

 is indicated more especially in some western and Central American 

 species, as C. subocularis and C. lineaticolUs, and culminates in C. quad- 

 rivittatus, which is spotted when young and wholly striped when 

 mature. C. ohsoletus confinis is in most respects generalized as to 

 pattern, and either this species, or less probably C. guttatus, both 

 chiefly Ocmulgian, are likely to be near the primitive form. 



In the Lower Sonoran Coluber has given off Arizona and Pihjophis, 

 the last having sent one species, P. melanoleucus , the most specialized 

 of the genus in the shape of its rostral, and in disappearance of the 

 head bands in adults, back into the Atlantic as far north as New Jersey. 



The genus Ophibolus, generally distributed in the Nearctic, except 

 in the northwest, is nearly related to Coronella of the western Palse- 

 arctic and Ethiopian. It does not seem possible to determine whether 

 the parent is represented by some color form of 0. gctulus or 0. doliatus, 

 but the coronelline affinity indicates with sufficient certainty that OpM- 

 holus must have come from a soiu-ce whose Palsearctic connections 

 were by way of the eastern or north Atlantic route. It may be 

 significant that while no subspecific distinction is warranted, most 

 Floridan examples of 0. gchdus getulus, which is the most vigorous and 

 extended species, seem to be rather generalized in the character of the 

 dorsal spots and bands, as between northern specimens of the same 

 form and the Louisianan 0. g. sayi. The further fact has a bearing, that 

 the specific characters of forms from the western part of the Nearctic 

 seem to show less stability than the eastern ones, especially so in 0. g. 

 boylii and 0. g. californice, thus pointing to a more recent development 

 of these subspecies. 



Liopeltis and Cyclophis are examples of the remarkable discontinuity 

 already noted in the range of certain other genera common to eastern 

 Asia and eastern North America. In the last Liopeltis covers the 

 whole Atlantic subregion, while Cyclophis is mamly Austroriparian. 

 Both extend to no great distance into the Sonoran. 



The case for Heterodon is not free from doubt. The form of its 

 rostral seems to suggest that it belongs among the types which have 

 been so freely developed in the dry Lower Sonoran, and its possible 

 relationship to the South American Lystrophis would accord with this 

 assignment, but on the other hand, the largest and most widely spread 




1904,] NATURA.L SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Species, H. platyrhinos, is found upon suitable soils over most of the 

 Atlantic subregion and is especially common on the coast from New 

 Jersey to Florida; H. simus is Austroriparian and chiefly Ocmulgian; 

 while the smallest and most feeble species only, H. nasicus, is Sonoran 

 and does not extend west of the Rocky mountains. There is good 

 reason, therefore, to refer Heterodon to the Austroriparian, in which 

 case its Neotropical affinity renders it probable that Florida was the 

 region of its origin. 



Among Crotalida^, Ancistrodon only can be referred to the Atlantic 

 subregion, A. contortrix being spread over its whole extent and A. 

 piscivorus confined to the Austroriparian, where numerically it is in 

 excess in the extreme southeast. Both species enter the borders 

 of the Sonoran at suitable localities. The assignment of the genus 

 to the Atlantic coast is further justified by its occurrence in eastern 



Asia. 



Of these more or less cosmopolitan, or Holarctic genera, which must 

 be supposed to have occupied the Nearctic during the Tertiary, and 

 even of related groups restricted to the Nearctic but of sufficient 

 extension there to warrant belief in their relatively considerable age, 

 it is seen that there is reason to believe that all but Sceloporus, Cnemi- 

 dophorus, Eumeces, Sistrurus and Crotalus belonged to the Atlantic 

 post-glacial centre, which from the present numerical proportion of 

 species and individuals, as well as the geological age of the region, 

 seems to have been the Ocmulgian. 



From this centre a route to the north has been freely open along the 

 low coast plain east of the Alleghenies, to distances into the Eastern 

 district determined for each migrant by limiting conditions, of which, 

 in this case, temperature must be regarded as the most important. 

 A few powerful species, such as Coluber obsoletus obsoletus, Ophibolus 

 doliatus triangulus and to a less extent PityopMs melanoleucus, have 

 chosen this route to the region north of the Ohio river, turning west- 

 ward about the Potomac or Susquehanna. 



The other main highway was westward along the Gulf coast to the 

 Mississippi river and up that valley, where conditions are highly 

 favorable to reptilian life, spreading eastward at the north to southern 

 Indiana and Ohio. Few species traveled this route unaltered, for with 

 most of them the changed conditions encountered have resulted in 

 the establishing of variations, at least of color, with which a sound 

 taxonomy must reckon. An excellent example of this is Ophibolus 

 getulus getulus, which ranges from Florida north to the pine region of 

 New Jersey with no change which has yet been held to warrant a new 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



trinominal, l^iit on its western course, as it enters the Louisianan it be- 

 comes 0. g. sayi, and still further west, in the Texan, is even now per- 

 haps differentiating into a color form known as 0. g. splendidiis. The 

 Louisianan subspecies has moved up the Mississippi valley as far as 

 southern Illinois, and even in that region an occasional specimen shows 

 the pattern of splendidus. The lower Mississippi valley may indeed, 

 with some reason, be regarded as a secondary and more modern centre 

 of development in Chelonia and Ophidia. 



Quite different from the condition of temperature which has limited 

 the northward extension of Ocmulgian forms, that which has checked or 

 transformed them on the western route is the lack of moisture encoun- 

 tered beyond the Mississippi, about the beginning of the great plains. 



Another northwestward route from the Ocmulgian may have been 

 directly through or around the lower end of the Alleghenies by way of 

 ancient river valleys, but it is not probable that this was traveled as 

 freely as those leading by the coast plain in either direction. 



It may be repeated that the present study deals only with post- 

 glacial conditions. If, as has been assumed, the interchange of reptiles 

 between the Nearctic and the Palsearctic was by means of a north 

 Atlantic connection, their Tertiary centres of development were doubt- 

 less of greater area and much farther to the north. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 475 



May 3. 



]\Ir. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



A Spencer Objective. — Mr. F. J. Keeley described a microscope 

 objective of one-fourth inch focus, made in 1860 by Charles A. Spencer. 

 It was recently necessary to take apart the back system for re-balsam- 

 ing, Avhen it was fomid to consist of five lenses, three of which were 

 convex and two concave. One of these proved, on examination with 

 polarized light, to be fliiorite, which mineral, while isotropic, exhibits 

 characteristic optical anomalies between crossed prisms that permit 

 of its identification, at least in contradistinction from glass or other 

 material used for lenses. The fluorite lens is perfectly preserved, as 

 might be expected from the stable character of the mineral. When 

 objectives of more recent manufacture containing fluorite have deteri- 

 orated, the fluorite has been blamed for faults which should imdoubtedly 

 have been attributed to unreliable glass used in connection with it. 



This objective is historically interesting as illustrating the complex 

 nature of the corrections adopted by Spencer at so early a date, as 

 well as confirming the previous reports that he had appreciated the 

 possibilities connected with the use of fluorite in securing superior 

 color corrections and employed it for the purpose twenty years before 

 it came into use abroad. 



The objective has an aperture of 142 to 152 degrees, according to 

 position of adjustment, which acts by rectilinear movement of back 

 systems, and is unusualh^ well corrected for color. It resolves Pleuro- 

 sigma angulatum sharply into dots with central light from mirror, 

 and with oblique illumination resolves markings 76,000 to the inch. 

 In some respects its performance was possibly slightly sacrificed in 

 eHminating color, for with a large central illuminating cone, its defi- 

 nition is somewhat inferior to that of objectives of similar power made 

 by Tolles at slightly earlier and later dates, which show considerably 

 more color. The latter, although both over forty years old, compare 

 favorably, optically and mechanically, with best achromatics made to- 

 day, and it seems not unlikely that Spencer abandoned the use of 

 fluorite because he realized that sharp definition was more important 

 than the elimination of last trace of color, rather than from any fear 

 of its lack of permanency. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper had been presented 

 for publication under the title "Observation on Hyrax," by Henry 

 C. Chapman, M.D. (April 29, 1904). 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



OBSERVATIONS ON HYRAX. 



BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



The structure of Hyrax has been so thoroughly investigated by Pal- 

 las/ Owen,2 Brandt,^ Mirie and Mivart/ and George,^ as well as by other 

 anatomists, that little or nothing remains now to be said by any one 

 to whom the rare opportunity is afforded of dissecting this interesting 

 animal. In exhibiting to the Academy the muscular system and viscera 

 of a fine male specimen of Hyrax {Procavia Brucei), most kindly put at 

 the disposition of the writer by Messiem-s Edmond, Perrier and Gervais, 

 of the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, attention was nevertheless called to 

 the fact that the figures illustrating the form of stomach as offered 

 by Pallas, Brandt and George give an imperfect, even an erroneous, 

 idea of that of the stomach of the Hyrax dissected by the writer. 

 According to the anatomists just referred to, the cardiac portion of 



the stomach in Hyrax is large and 

 globular, the pyloric portion small and 

 narrow, whereas exactly the reverse 

 obtains in the stomach of the specimen 

 submitted to the writer (fig. 1). In- 

 ^ Xy'/v I asmuch as the narrow cardiac portion 



' ' ^ of the stomach is extremely muscular 



in Hyrax, it might be supposed that 

 such condition may have been due 

 to the fluid m which the speci- 

 men had been preserved. In the 

 Fig. 1. judgment of the writer the marked 



difference in contour presented by the two regions of the stomach 

 cannot be so accounted for. In confirmation of the view that the 

 form of the stomach so found was normal and not due to post-mortem 



^ Spicilegia Zoologica, 1767, p. 16. 

 2 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1832, p. 202. 



' Memoires de I Acad. Imp. des Sciences de St. Pcterbourg, VII Ser., Tome 

 XIV. 



< Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1865, p. 329. 



' Annates des Sciences Nat., 6me Serie, I, 1874. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



contraction, it should bo mentioned that when the animal was opened, 

 although the two parts of the stomach were distended with food, it 

 nevertheless presented two distinct cardiac and pyloric portions. At 

 the same time the small intestine was empty, which would not have 

 been the case had the stomach contracted to any extent upon its con- 

 tents. It is well known that in the six-banded armadillo {Dastjpus 

 sexcindus), in the two-toed ant eater (Myrmecophaga didadyla) and m 

 the two-toed sloth {Chplcepus Hofnianni) the coecum presents two coecal 

 processes, and in Hyrax, in addition to a coecum proper, the alimentary 

 canal is provided with a second dilatation, terminating also in two 

 coecal processes resembling somewhat those just referred to as occur- 

 ring in the edentates just mentioned. It will be observed, however, 

 that the two coecal processes found in Hyrax, but in no other mam- 

 mal, so far as is known to the writer, are appendages of the colon and 

 not of the coecum proper. The significance of these colonic append- 

 ages is not known. 



The length of the alimentary canal in Hyrax is as follows accord- 

 ing to 



Owen George Chapman 



Small intestine, 54 64 38 inches. 



Coecum, ^ ^^ ,, 



Colonic coecum, ^ q? '' 



Large intestine, 58 oz 60 



112 120 778 



The length of the alimentary canal was nearly five times that of the 

 animal, measured from snout to anus, a ratio not differing essentially 

 from that of Owen^ and George.^ 



The villi of the small intestme of Hyrax, as is well known, are re- 

 markably well developed, indeed as long proportionally as in the 

 rhinoceros.^ The attention of anatomists does not appear, however, 

 to have been directed to the fact that some of the vilh are longer than 

 others, the former terminating in branched or club-like processes 

 (fig 2) resembling somewhat the villi of the Indian rhinoceros 

 studied 'by the writer. In view of the difference of opinion that 

 has prevaUed among systematists as to the affinities of Hyrax 

 with the remaining mammalia, this fact might be urged as con- 



" Exclusive of colonic coeca. 



' Op. cit., p. 204. 



' Ov. cit., p. 38. . , „;■ Q roc 



» Meckel, Systeme der vergleichenden Anatonne, Band iV, b. t,Jiy. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACXdEMY OF [M&Y 



firming the view held by Ciivier'" and Owcn/^ that Hyrox is nearly 

 related to the rhinoceros, as shown by its rhinoceros-like incisor and 

 molar teeth, the incisor teeth being developed as in 

 the extinct Rhinoceros incisiviis, the molar teeth 

 presenting essentially the same pattern in both ani- 

 mals; the position of the oesophagus in regard to the 

 stomach, the relatively simple stomach and complex 

 coecum, the perissodactyle number of ribs 22, the 

 hoofs of the unsymmetrical tetradactyle fore-foot 

 and tridactyle hindfoot as in Aceratherium, an ex- 

 tinct hornless rhinoceros, etc. On the other hand, as 

 I^'ig- -■ first shown by Home,'- the placenta in Hyrax is 



zonular, like that of the elephant and carnivora — a fact somewhat 

 inconsistent with the view that would regard Hyrax as a little 

 rhinoceros. Still, it must be admitted, since it has been shown by 

 the writer'^ that the same kind of mammals (Edentata) may have 

 different form of placenta and different kinds of mammals the 

 same form, that the form of the placenta is of little or no value in 

 the classification of the mammalia. In the absence of fossil re- 

 mains of Hyrax, though the extinct Hyracotherium may be some- 

 what allied, it is impossible to assign Hyrax to any livmg form of 

 mammals. For the present, therefore, it may be regarded as siii 

 generis the representative of an extinct order Hyracoidra, of which 

 Dendrohyrax is also a member. As a matter of record, it may be 

 stated that fragments of a species of tapeworm (Moniezia) were found 

 in the small intestine, and also a number of specimens of Ascaris ferox, 

 as identified by my colleague. Prof. Percy Moore. In regard to the 

 urogenital apparatus, its disposition was found to be essentially the 

 same as described by Pallas, George, etc. In the specimen of 

 Hyrax dissected by the writer, the testicles were found lying in the 

 abdominal cavity below the kidneys, and were longer rather than 

 shorter than the latter, as hitherto described. The ureters opened 

 into the fundus of the bladder, the aperture of the left one being situ- 

 ated a trifle lower than that of the right one. The vasa deferentia, 

 as they pass behind the bladder, become so much convoluted as to 

 resemble a second epididymis, terminating finally in two openings 

 situated in the under part of the veru montanum of the urethra. 

 The lower convoluted portions of the vasa deferentia, just referred to, 



'» Ossemens Fossiles, 1834, Tome 3, p. 251. 



'^ Owen, Anat. of Vertebrates, III, p. 742. 



" Led. on Com-p. Anat., Vol. VI, 1S28, PI. 61-62. 



'2 Proc. of Acad, of Nat. Sci. Phila., 19U1, p. 36G. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



are regarded by George" as performing the functions of seminal vesicles. 

 Owen, however, states^^ having found true seminal vesicles quite dis- 

 tinct from the convoluted portions of the vasa deferentia just men- 

 tioned. Further, there are two additional pairs of glands, the ducts of 

 the first opening into the upper portion of the veru montaniim, those 

 of the second into the bulb of the urethra, and regarded respectively 

 by George" as prostate and Couper's glands. The prostate glands were 

 considered by both Pallas'^ and Cuvier^* to be the seminal vesicles, 

 but as the ducts of the latter terminate by openings quite distinct 

 from those of the vasa deferentia, their nature as interpreted by George 

 is probably the correct one. The levatores muscles of the penis arise 

 from the symphysis pubis, and terminate in a single tendon, as was 

 the case in the rhinoceros dissected by the writer, a disposition first 

 noticed by Owen.^'' The erectores and acceleratores muscles were 

 well developed. 



The Hyrax is regarded by naturalists and Biblical scholars as being 

 the animal referred to in the Bible as the " coney" — the |DJ^ (saphan) of 

 the Hebrews and the /otpoypuUtu^ of the Greeks. The Hebrews were 

 forbidden by their law to make use of the coney as an article of food, it 

 being considered by them to be unclean, "because he cheweththe cud, 

 but divideth not the hoof" (Lev. xi. 5). Biblical scholars, in their 

 efforts to determine what kmd of an animal the coney of the Bible 

 really was, do not appear, however, so far as known to the writer, to 

 have noticed that, according to readings of Tischendorff and 

 Van Ess, Vetus Test Greece (Leviticus xi. 5), the coney does not 

 chew the cud, " xac '<>'■' ■^(npnyiiuHtir^^ on duk w^uysc pjjpo-'UfrfKr/" ; 



whereas, according to Deuteronomy xiv. 7, it does chew the cud, 



" xac raura tiu ipayzaOz a-o roiv w>aYi).ixu)'j pripoy.inp.ovP There is no 

 such discrepancy of reading, however, between the corresponding 

 texts in the Hebrew, the Vatican Codex^° and Sweet's Septuagint, 

 the Latin and English versions of the Bible, it being stated in all 



" Op. cit., p. 192. 



»5 O-p. cit., p. 206. 



" Op. cit., p. 193. 



" Op. cit., p. 29. 



'» A7iat. Comp., Tome VIII, p. 165. 



" Op. cit., p. 207 



^° It is a curious fact that notwithstanding the Tischendorff Septuagint is 

 supposed to be an exact copy of tlie Vatican Codex, the ovk that occurs in the 

 former (Lev. xi. 5) is absent in the latter, and that no reason is given for the 

 variant reading. The writer takes tlie opportunity of expressing his thanlcs to 

 Prof. W. C. Lamberton, the distinguished Greek scholar, for giving him the 

 opportunity of consulting the different Greek versions of the Old Testament 

 referred to in the text. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the versions that the coney cheweth the cud. As a matter of fact the 

 Hyrax does not chew the cud, even though the movements of its jaws 

 during feeding would suggest such action. Its stomach, though 

 divided into two distinct regions, is not adapted for rumination, and 

 the animal has never been observed to perform that act either in the 

 wild state or in captivity. It is possible, therefore, that the Hyrax of 

 Syria, after all, is not the animal referred to in the Bible as the coney, 

 even though the rocks were a refuge for the latter, according to the 

 Psalmist (civ. 18), as they still are for the Hyrax, and that the coneys, 

 like the Hyrax, are a "feeble folk, yet make their houses in the rocks" 

 (Prov. XXX. 26). On the other hand, if the Hyrax is stUl to be regarded 

 as the coney, as the Arabs think, then the Biblical texts in which it is 

 stated that the coney cheweth the cud should be revised to make 

 them consistent with what is known to be the habit of Hyrax in 

 this^ respect. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 48 1 



May 17. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The deaths of Maxwell Sommerville, a member, May 5, and of 

 Henry M. Stanley, a correspondent. May 10, were announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled "New 

 Polychaeta from California," by J. Percy Moore, had been offered for 

 publication (May 16). 



Summer Activity of Some Spring Flowers. — Dr. Ida Keller re- 

 marked that the suddenness with which the first warm days of spring 

 call into bemg the so-called "spring flowers" is a yearly repeated 

 surprise, and although the following summer months are characterized 

 by conditions far more conducive to vegetative activity, we are accus- 

 tomed to find the plants which were conspicuous in April, May and 

 June sinking gradually into insignificance. Their time of active ser- 

 vice seems, therefore, to be confined within narrow limits. 



The slightest acquaintance with the laws governing plant physiology 

 leads to the conclusion that the complex structures thus quickly appear- 

 ing are in reality the result of the usual slow and elaborate processes 

 of the various phases of metabolism, and indeed close observation 

 shows that at least some of our well-known species are busily at work 

 during the entire summer, preparing with great care and circumspec- 

 tion for the sensational outburst of the vernal season. 



No better illustration of this point could be found than the May- 

 apple. It is interesting to dig in the soil about these plants in July or 

 early August. Close to the surface the trowel is impeded by a network 

 of tough stems. Instead of growing upward, these formidable struc- 

 tures run parallel to the surface, or they run diagonally downward, 

 or perhaps they may even point vertically downward, in defiance to 

 the laws of geotropism. The stems are anchored in the ground by 

 rather stout roots which come off at various points, and each stem is 

 terminated by a large bud. Lateral buds are also to be found. At 

 this time of the year the overground portion is in a process of slow de- 

 composition. The decaying leaf-stalk gives no evidence of this under- 

 ground activity, as a result of which we have great patches of Podo- 

 phyllum early the following year. 



While making these observations she had also noticed the False 

 Solomon's Seal. The flowering plants of the season had produced 

 fruit, but there were also many younger plants which had not yet 

 reached the flowering stage. On none of the plants were long under- 

 ground stems visible, but their rhizomes were all well supplied with 

 31 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



conspicuous buds. It was worthy of notice that the plants which 

 were too immature to produce flower and seed readily form several 

 underground buds, indicating that the latter method of reproduction 

 takes place at an earlier stage than that of seed formation. Owing to 

 this wise arrangement the danger of extermination from the ravages of 

 enthusiastic collectors is much reduced, since the plants thus reproduce 

 freely at this early stage of their existence without offering any temp- 

 tation to the hunters of wild flowers, who abound in the woods at this 

 time of year. 



By far the most interesting observations on this underground method 

 of reproduction were made on Ariscema triphyllwn. 



On the 27th of July a locality was found on Crum creek where the 

 plants were very plentiful and in the various stages of development. 

 At the time of year mentioned the fruit was formed, and while still 

 green in color it showed a tendency to turn red. Below was the 

 thick corm and the two leaves were showing symptoms of decay by 

 their yellowish tinge. In some cases the leaves had already dropped 

 off completely. In one case the corm was of the same shape as that 

 of the mature plant, namely, depressed globose, while in another the 

 form was markedly different, being decidedly elongated and at the free 

 end there was the appearance of a scar, indicating some previous 

 attachment. It was these longish corms which appeared to indicate 

 some hidden meaning and which led her to contmue the observation 

 in regard to their origin and significance. 



Some years ago, in a short paper entitled Underground Runners, she 

 had called attention to peculiar growths on Ariscema triphyllum as 

 found in April. At that time of year they were small knob-like pro- 

 jections on the corm, while in July these formations were at least an 

 inch in length. There may be several of them on the same corm, nor 

 are they restricted to the mature plants. This species also repro- 

 duces freely before it reaches the flowering age and thus decreases the 

 chances of extermination. This may partially explain the persistence 

 of the plant in our woods in spite of the fact that it is one of the favor- 

 ites of the enthusiastic collectors before mentioned. 



She had found that these structures drop off very readily, and was 

 much impressed with this peculiarity. In fact, it seemed impossible 

 to keep a corm and its growth intact. On close inspection it appeared 

 that there had been. a separation between the main body of the corm 

 and the structure even before they were disturbed. The attachment 

 was entirely superficial, being simply due to a layer of skin which loosely 

 covered and hid the point of separation. The body is somewhat 

 bean-shaped, the bulk being made up of nourishing material, while 

 the apex is occupied by the terminal bud and the scar at the base marks 

 the point where it was originally connected with the parent plant. 

 A space already indicated the separation. Although still loosely 

 united by the skin above alluded to, each of the two structures is pre- 

 pared for an independent existence. 



On the 20th of September she again observed the patches with the 

 view of determining the sequel of the interesting story. By this time 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



most of the plants had died down, the still remaining leaves were yel- 

 lowish and m a state of decay. The red fruits were numerous, and it 

 did not seem as though the plants were in immediate danger of exter- 

 mination, even if their sole method of propagation were by seed On 

 uprootmg some, she had found that the growths had been completely 

 severed from the parent corms, and that, in fact, they seemed to be 

 mo^-ing away from them. It is a significant fact that we do not find 

 the Jack-m-the-pulpit growing close together in tufts, as would natur- 

 ally follow were these short underground growths to develop in con- 

 nection with the corms from which they spring. The result of the 

 spontaneous loosening leads naturally to a prevention of this condition 

 -buture observations must determine just how far the young corms 

 may travel from the spot where they had their origin. The elongated 

 form termmated by a point would offer but slight resistance to any 

 force which would tend to carry them away. Thus we find in this 

 plant a rather unusual form of reproductive bodies in these under- 

 ground sprouts and probably also an unusual method of dissemination 

 A considerable amount of activity is manifested in the formation of 

 these bodies, but this by no means represents the entire summer work 

 of this typical sprmg flower, even aside from the fruit formation. On 

 removmg the decaymg stems from the plant, a large pinkish, whole- 

 some bud comes mto view. Within the three heavy protecting sheaths 

 the Jack-m-the-pulpit is completely formed in miniature. The leaf 

 is unmistakable m its form, standing bolt upright, even emphasizing 

 the peculiarity of the adult leaf. Close to it is the inflorescence with a 

 fully formed spathe and the flowers within are marked by well-defined 

 masses of cells. Thus all is in readiness for the first warm days of the 

 following sprmg. 



To some extent the same is true of Podophyllum. In the vigorous 

 buds termmatmg the underground stems, described above, the leaf 

 and flower are also plainly formed. It is also true of SmUadna 

 racemosa, though perhaps to a less degree. Here the future raceme 

 is foreshadowed by the characteristic shape of the vegetative point 



We may safely conclude, therefore, that the summer months are 

 also a busy season with these spring flowers. We can appreciate how 

 heavy the demands are on the vegetative activity of the leaves of 

 Anscema tnphylhim when we remember that one current must carry 

 nutrition to the forming fruit, at least in the seed-bearing plants, 

 another stream travelling in the opposite direction must provide for 

 the food supply of the miniature plant in the bud, and also for the for- 

 mation of the underground reproductive bodies above described 

 The season IS indeed one full of activity up to the time when its close 

 IS marked by the fruit dropping heavily from the exhausted stalk. 



Henry D. Jordan, M.D., and James Harold Austin were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



NEW POLYCHJETA FROM CALIFORNIA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Some Polychseta gathered by Mr. E. C. Starks, at San Diego, Cali- 

 fornia, were recently sent to me for determination by Prof. Harold 

 Heath, of Leland Stanford, Jr., University. Besides the eight herein 

 described the collection includes about thirty species, most of which 

 have been recorded from the Pacific coast by Johnson, Baird, Fewkes 

 and others. A full list of these wOl be published in another connection. 

 Diopatra californica n. s. (PI. XXXVII, figs, l to 9.) 



This species probably attains a length of 200 mm., although the 

 only complete example measures only 110 mm. long and 5 mm. wide at 

 the termination of the region of long branchise. Prostomium small, 

 mostly concealed by the bases of its appendages. Frontal tentacles 

 nearly in contact at their bases, fusiform, nearly equal to the pros- 

 tomium in length. Five principal tentacles similar in size, form and 

 structure, arising in close contact from an arcuate area nearly covering 

 the dorsum of the prostomium. The basal fourth of each forming a 

 conspicuous ceratophore divided into twelve to fom'teen rings equalling 

 in length the head and frontal tentacles, the styles smooth, slender 

 and tapering, apparently subequal, but the tips imperfect. Eyes, a 

 pair of prominent, slightly pigmented swellings nearly in contact and 

 occup3dng most of the region of the head posterior to the tentacles. 

 Palps prominent, slightly bilobed processes bounding the mouth in 

 front and in contact mesially. 



Peristomium slightly shorter than the prostomium, which it em- 

 braces laterally. Nuchal tentacles on its extreme anterior margin, 

 and in line with the outer edge of the inner lateral tentacles. The 

 next two or three somites nearly equal the peristomium, and are 

 rounded at the margins, while the remaining ones are much shorter, 

 usually only about one-sixth or one-eighth of their width. For about 

 the first fifth of the body through the branchial region they are much 

 flattened, but beyond that become gradually rounded and taper toward 

 the tail, which is terminated by a bead-like pygidiimi bearing near the 

 middle line a pair of delicate ventral cirri having a length equal to the 

 last eight or nine somites. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



The fii-st distinct parapodium is on the somite following the peris- 

 tomium and consists of a setigerous body with three cirri, a postsetal 

 lobe and a dorsal and ventral cirrus, all slender and conical and the latter 

 about tT\-ice as long as the others. The second and third parapodia are 

 similar, with the dorsal cirri longer. As far as the sixth or seventh the 

 dorsal cirri continue to increase in length, then gradually diminish 

 through the branchial region, and behind the latter remain small and 

 slender to the end. The ventral cirrus undergoes no change in the first 

 four parapodia, but suddenly disappears in the fifth, where it is repre- 

 sented by a small glandular prominence, which increases in size and in 

 the middle branchial region extends about one-fourth of the distance 

 across the venter. Beyond the branchial region it becomes smaller. 

 The postsetal lobe is likewise largest on the first four somites, and after 

 reduction in the first few branchial segments, accompanied by a rota- 

 tion ventrad, remains for the entire middle region of the body a blunt, 

 moderately sized lobe ventro-caudad of the setse tuft. In the posterior 

 half of the body all parts of the parapodia are reduced and finally 

 become mere low papillae. 



In the region of their greatest development the branchiae are large 

 and prominent, of a tall and slender form, much like a juniper tree, but 

 with the spirally disposed branches more open in arrangement and, 

 below them a distinctly annulated basal portion of the trunk. They 

 begin abruptly on the fourth parapodium, and the first is about 

 three-fifths as long as the largest on the sixth or seventh parapodium. 

 Beyond this point they gradually decrease in size, the number of 

 whorls of branches at the same time increasing, and their arrangement 

 becoming more open. By the twenty-seventh parapodium the spiral 

 arrangement has disappeared altogether and the stem is simply curved, 

 with the branches in a linear series on the convex side, an arrangement 

 which begins to appear at the tip of some of the preceding gills, as 

 though they were gradually unwinding. The number of turns in 

 different branchiae of the type is 11 on the first, 13 on the second, 

 15 on the third and foiu-th, 13 on the sixth, 10 on the tenth, 7 on the fif- 

 teenth, 4 on the twentieth, and none on the twenty-fifth. Beyond 

 the thirtieth parapodium each gill consists merely of a stalk, usually 

 curved at the free end and bearing a terminal tuft of short branches, 

 with a few others in a series below. These gradually decrease in size, 

 and by the fortieth parapodium are nearly or quite simple, and finally 

 disappear by the sixtieth parapodium. 



On the first four parapodia the setae are of two kinds, guarded uncini 

 and simple slender setae. The former are nearly colorless and have ' 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



an incomplete transverse fracture or joint near the outer end and a 

 strongly hooked tip with a stout subterminal spur; the guard extends 

 somewhat beyond the terminal hook, and in the larger uncini at least 

 reaches far down the shaft, along which its margin is distinctly free 

 and denticulated. They are arranged in three groups, a ventral of 

 two small and slender uncini (PI. XXXVII, fig. 2), a middle of one 

 large stout (PI. XXXVII, fig. 1) and three to five smaller ones, and a 

 dorsal group of one or two which are usually longer, especially in the 

 end piece, than any of the others and intermediate in thickness. 

 The more slender uncini, as shown in the ventral one figured, have the 

 guards more prolonged. Of the simpe setae (PI. XXXVII, fig. 3) there 

 are but one or two in each foot, and they arise just dorsad of the pos- 

 terior row of uncini, the longest one reaching nearly or quite to the 

 tip of the posterior lobe and nearly equalling in diameter all but the 

 very stoutest uncini. They are colorless, translucent, have barely 

 visible oblique striations, become increasingly curved toward the tip, 

 and when perfect are terminated by a small flexible filament. 



On the tenth and succeeding parapodia the character of the setae 

 is altogether changed. There are no uncini, but in their place a spread- 

 ing ventral vertical row of rather stout pale yellow strongly striated 

 setae, four to six in number, with the outer ends broadened, flattened 

 and rather strongly curved and tapered to a very acute point (PI. 

 XXXVII, fig. 4). Dorsad of the postsetal lobe is a compact horizontal 

 row of more numerous, longer, narrower and straighter setae of other- 

 wise similar form and structure. At the base of these, on the dorsal 

 side, is a group of a few colorless spatulate setae with slender stems 

 and abruptly broadened fork-shaped ends with seven tines (PL 

 XXXVII, fig. 5). 



By the thirty-fifth parapodium the setae are practically all confined 

 to the horizontal dorsal fascicle and the spatulate setae are more 

 numerous, and have broader more curved plates with as many as nine 

 rather spreading tines. Among them are also a few very small spatu- 

 late setae with ovoid blade and simple mucronate tip. Posteriorly 

 the setae, especially the simple ones, are reduced in number, become 

 more slender and project far beyond the now very small ventro-caudal 

 lobe. By the seventy-fifth parapodium only about six such setae 

 remain, and the spatulate setae have continued to widen and bear as 

 many as eleven times. Still further caudad the number of setae is 

 further reduced and they become more slender. 



The four anterior parapodia are each supported by about three 

 slender aciculi which enter the base of the dorsal cirrus, and the same 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



number of stouter ones in the setigerous lobe. A single hooked and 

 guarded aciculus appears ventrally at about the tenth parapodium, 

 and by the twenty-fifth there are two very stout ones (PI. XXXVII, fig. 

 6), and above these a vertical row of four or five less stout but more 

 opaque and deeply colored aciculi, whose ends project freely as acute 

 points which increase in length dorsally where they pass mto the regular 

 series of setae. Just beyond the point of their emergence is a slightly 

 swollen deep brown spot, at which they readily break, indicating the 

 existence of an imperfect joint (PI. XXXVII, fig. 7). The arrangement 

 just described continues to the seventy-fifth somite at least, and prob- 

 ably considerably beyond, but the one hundred and twenty-fifth has 

 two hooked aciculi, only two pointed ones and a single simply bent and 

 unguarded one (PI. XXXVII, fig. 8). 



The jaws (PI. XXXVII, fig. 9) are nearly black and stout. The 

 maxillse have short, broad carriers, not united in the middle, and their 

 bases bear two prominent tubercles. The next dorsal plate bears six 

 or seven stout teeth, the next five on the left and seven on the right 

 side, with a thin edentulous plate on each side. The extra plate on 

 the left side bears seven or eight teeth. The mandibles have the ter- 

 minal piece white and translucent, the carriers deep brown, loosely 

 joined, very broadly rounded at the base and with a prominent longi- 

 tudinal ridge. 



Eunice biannulata n. s. (PI. XXXVII, figs. 10-18; PI. XXXVIII, fig. 42.) ] 



The type and largest example is 137 mm. long and 5.3 mm. between 

 the tips of the parapodia at the widest point. The prostomium is 

 short and broad, the length barely exceeding one-half the width, the 

 anterior border scarcely emarginated, but the anterior lobes or palpi 

 swelling broadly ventrad and laterad, and separated by a distinct 

 median ventral furrow passing backward to the mouth, while a faint 

 transverse groove separates a small anterior from a larger posterior 

 portion. The tentacles arise in a nearly straight transverse line 

 across the anterior portion of the white posterior half of the pros- 

 tomium; the paired tentacles are in contact at their bases and are 

 separated from the median tentacle by a distance about equalling the 

 diameter of the latter. Ceratophores all very low and broad ; styles 

 constricted at the base, increasing gradually in diameter for one-fourth 

 or one-fifth of their length and then tapering regularly to the end, 

 simply articulated at the base, strongly beaded distally, the terminal 

 joints caducious. The first joint is always much the longest, the second 

 very short and often imperfectly differentiated, the others increasing 

 in length more or less irregularly to the end, giving the impression of 




4SS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



a budding zone at the distal end of the basal segment. The type speci- 

 men, which has suffered less from maceration than the others, has the 

 median tentacle with twenty-one articulations reaching to the middle 

 of VI, the inner lateral thirteen articulations reaching IV, and 

 the outer lateral seven articulations reaching II. Eyes black, some- 

 what elongated and crowded into the recess behind and between the 

 bases of the lateral tentacles. 



Peristomium considerably longer than the prostomium and slightly 

 wider than its widest part, the anterior third distinctly separated dor- 

 sally as a ring which is sometimes elevated prominently above the head. 

 The principal ring presents the usual lateral or mandibular lobes and 

 a smooth unfurrowed ventral lip. The nuchal cirri have the characters 

 of the tentacles, about equal the peristomium in length and have four 

 to seven articulations. Somite II is very short, scarcely more than 

 one-fourth of the prostomium, V is slightly enlarged, and behind it 

 the remaining somites are of nearly uniform length until they begin 

 to diminish at the posterior end. They are all smooth, simple and, 

 especiall}^ in the branchial region, very clearly defined. A short 

 cylindrical pygidium bears a pair of short stiff cirri and laterad of these, 

 but still ventral to the anus, a pair of long, slender, flexible cirri equal- 

 ling the fifteen terminal segments. 



The first parapodium is strictly ventro-lateral ; those following rise 

 gradually to a half-way level. In form they imdergo the changes 

 usual in the genus, their chief characteristic being the prominence of 

 the cirri, which are retained both dorsally and ventrally throughout the 

 entire length of the worm. The dorsal cirri are especially prominent 

 and distinctly articulated anteriorly where each consists of a larger 

 basal and two smaller jomts, together equalling the basal one. About 

 XXV one of these disappears, and a little farther on the other, the cir- 

 rus at the same time becoming more slender, but remaining about twice 

 as long as the setigerous lobe; posteriorly, as the latter becomes 

 smaller, the cirrus is relatively much more slender, three or four times 

 the length of the setigerous lobe, and often famtly articulated. The 

 ventral cirrus also, while undergoing reduction in the middle region, 

 exceeds the setigerous lobe throughout and always bears a small ter- 

 minal joint. 



The branchise are of typical uniserial pinnate form, the main stem 

 curving mediad over the back and the end not being strongly bent 

 upward. The branches are long, slender and simple but never exceed 

 the dorsal cirri; they arise from the main stem at right angles, not 

 dichotomously, and curve slightly mesiad. On two specimens they 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



have the following average distribution and complexity : Begin on 

 V with one filament, 3 on VI, 5 or 6 on VII, 6 to 8 from VIII to XXX, 

 4 or 5 to XXIX, 3 to XLII, 2 to XL VI, 1 to LIV, and cease by LV. 



The first parapodium (III) is supported by a pair of pale yellow, 

 simple pointed, sharply bevelled aciculi (PI. XXXVII, fig. 13), and 

 bears a small number of ventral compoimd and dorsal capillary setse, 

 as well as one or two spatulate setse. On IV the number of each kind, 

 especially the last, is increased. By VI the typical number, size and 

 arrangement is attained. The neuropodial aciculi are two or rarely 

 three, stout and blunt, and in the case of one somewhat enlarged at the 

 end (PI. XXXVII, fig. 14). Between XL and L a single ventral crochet 

 appears, and the dorsal aciculi become tapered and slightly curved 

 at the end (PI. XXXVII, fig. 15). The number of both compound 

 and capillary setse decreases in this region, and in the posterior somites 

 the latter seem to be absent altogether. The compound setse also un- 

 dergo a slight alteration in form. The dorsal cirrus throughout is sup- 

 ported by about three slender aciculi. 



The compound setse (PI. XXXVII, fig. 10) are all rather slender, 

 nearly colorless, have curved, finely striated stems moderately enlarged 

 at the ends ; the appendix is not over two and one-half times the great- 

 est diameter of the stem, the end is prominently hooked and bidentate, 

 the accessory tooth distinctly triangular, guard narrow, scarcely 

 covering the end. From the posterior branchial region caudad the 

 hook gradually diminishes, while the accessory tooth increases in 

 size, the base of the appendix becomes more oblique, and the end of 

 the shaft more strongly curved and thicker (PI. XXXVII, fig. 11). 

 Throughout most of the branchial region the compound setse are ar- 

 ranged in a nearly complete circle somewhat open both dorsally and 

 ventrally. 



The capillary setse form a dense dorsal tuft reaching far beyond the 

 compound setse. They are pale greenish or nearly colorless, curved, 

 finely pointed and faintly obliquely striated (PI. XXXVII, fig. 12). 

 Back as far as the end of the branchial region they exhibit a slight 

 enlargement in the outer third, but posteriorly are strictly capillary. 

 Spatulate setse (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 42) form a close dorsal tuft at the 

 base of the capillary. They are colorless and very delicate, the ends 

 half round with the outer angles prolonged and the distal margin 

 folded and split mto nine or ten processes tipped with short filaments 

 which bend abruptly inward nearly at a right angle. These setae 

 appear as a single one or two in the first parapodium and continue to 

 C at least. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



The jaws (PI. XXXVII, fig. 18) are delicate and nearly colorless, 

 except in the thickest parts, which are brow^l. The maxillae are slen- 

 der, acute and at the base extend beyond the small carriers laterally. 

 The basal dorsal plates have five or six teeth, and the much smaller 

 anterior plates six and ten teeth on the left and right side respectively. 

 The extra plate on the left side has six teeth. 



Even in alcohol the colors of this species are well preserved and rich. 

 The cuticle is everywhere smooth, polished and iridescent. For most 

 of its length the body is beautifully annulated with a rich brown on a 

 creamy- white ground. Each somite is marked on the dorsum with 

 two narrow brown half rings separated from each other by an often 

 impure area of the ground color, often divided by a narrow transverse 

 brown line, and from the bands of the neighboring somites by a nar- 

 rower, purer and more sharply defined intersegmental ring, also usually 

 divided in the middle by a narrow transverse line. A dark median 

 dorsal line is also often evident. The ventral colors are more obscure, 

 but each somite in the anterior region has a dull brown cross-stripe. 

 Farther back the stripes break into a paired series of spots replaced 

 posteriorly by a series of narrow median spots, three on each segment, 

 a very small one in the furrow, followed by a considerable interval, 

 then a larger spot, a small interval and then the largest, an oval spot 

 which extends over nearly one-half the length of the somite. The 

 sides of the segments and, except anteriorly, the parapodia are color- 

 less. For about the first ten somites the brown color becomes richer 

 and nearly continuous on the dorsum, except that the somewhat en- 

 larged fifth segment is pure white and conspicuous and the ninth is 

 chiefly white. On the caudal region of the body the color approaches 

 orange and becomes more suffused. Except for a row of minute dots 

 about its dorsal posterior margin and a pair of larger spots at the base 

 of the caudal cirri, the pygidium is white. The head is pale below with 

 a brown spot in the ventral furrow; above its anterior half and a nar- 

 row median triangle extending from the base of the median tentacle to 

 the posterior margin are brown, the rest pale. All of the tentacles, 

 tentacular cirri and the anterior dorsal cirri are similarly colored ; the 

 ceratophore and all of the constrictions are brown, the enlargements 

 white, resulting in a very sharply defined color annulation. The longer 

 anal cirri are chiefly brown with white rings. 

 Lumbriconereis erecta n. s. (PI. XXXVII, figs. 19 to 22; PI. XXXVIII, figs. 23 to 25.) 



The form and general aspect are about as usual in the genus, though 

 the unusual length and prominence of the lobes of the posterior para- 

 podia overcomes the trimness general to these worms. Full-grown 




1094,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



specimens are 300 mm. or more in length, and have a width of 3.5 mm. 

 without and 5 mm. inckiding the parapodia. The usual number of 

 somites is about 330. The prostomium is sugar-loaf shaped in outline, 

 slightly depressed, the length slightly exceeding the basal width, the 

 apex narrowly rounded; at the base it is slightly mortised into the 

 peristomium above and on the sides is marked by a pair of faint 

 oblique grooves, in front of which are a few pigment spots but no dis- 

 tinct eyes; on the middle of the lower surface is a shallow median de- 

 pression. Mouth large, bounded laterally by a pair of prominent 

 L-shaped lobes connected with the peristomium, a much wrinkled fold 

 of which bounds the mouth posteriorly. The peristomium is divided 

 into two rings (perhaps somites) by a furrow which is very distinct 

 above, obsolete below; the first ring equals the first setigerous somite, 

 the second is two-thirds as long. Body nearly terete, very slightly 

 depressed toward the ends; the somites all well marked, simple, 

 smooth except for a very slightly raised welt around the middle ; their 

 length nearly uniform, from one-third to one-fifth their width, which 

 is greatest at the middle. Toward the posterior end of the body there 

 is a faint neural groove. The pygidium is a small platform ventral to 

 the anus and provided with a pair of prominent short and thick bifid 

 cirri, the median lobes of which come into contact in the median line. 

 In the middle region of the body the parapodia are situated about 

 midway between the dorsal and ventral surfaces which are equally con- 

 vex, but toward the ends they assume a lower level and the ventral 

 surface becomes flattened. The parapodia (PI. XXXVII, figs. 19-21) 

 have a short, thick rounded base, a very small notopodial tubercle 

 which receives four to six aciculi, a presetal lobe which is very short, 

 thick and rounded throughout the series, and a promment postsetal lobe 

 which gradually increases in size from before backward, and in the 

 middle and posterior regions has the form of a long finger-like process 

 which generally bends abruptly upward at a right angle and rises above 

 the back. The setae are of the usually acute, winged and the hooded, 

 hooked forms and vary greatly in details and particularly in the degree 

 of curvature and geniculation. The anterior parapodia contain the 

 acute type only (PI. XXXVIII, figs, 23 and 24), at first in a somewhat 

 broken fan-shaped tuft, but soon in a dorsal group of longer and 

 middle and ventral groups of shorter setae. At about XLV, guarded 

 imcini (PI, XXXVIII, fig. 25) appear in the ventral group, and by L 

 are alone present to the number of four or five, which is further reduced 

 to tw^o or even one posteriorly. The ventral setae of the dorsal bundle 

 exhibit a reduction in size at about L, and by LX have given place 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



to uncini, but the slender setae do not altogether disappear until about 

 LXXV, from which point backward the uncini become stouter and the 

 number gradually reduced to from one to three in each parapodium. 



The jaws are coarse, black and very brittle. The mandibles (PL 

 XXXVn, fig 22) are pale, stout and broad, with the two halves 

 strongly united, especially by transverse striated bands across the end 

 pieces. The bases are broad and roughly lammated. 



Much of the original color has been lost, but the head and anterior 

 region of the body retains a rich bronze with a beautiful blue and 

 green iridescence; the posterior part is dull brown, due to heavy 

 masses of pigment which are scattered everywhere through the deeper 

 integument, but especially in a narrow transverse band and a pair of 

 dorso-lateral spots on each somite. 



Cirratulus spirabranchus n. s. (PL XXXVIII, figs. 26 and 27.) 



Form rather stout, thickest in middle and tapering almost equally 

 both ways. The type is 105 mm. long and 5.5 mm. in diameter at the 

 widest part. Prostomium elongated, pointed and slightly depressed, 

 wdth a short oblique groove on each side above and near the union 

 with the peristomium. No eyes visible. Peristomium enlarged, its 

 length equal to six succeeding somites, somewhat irregularly divided 

 into three or four rings of which the last is much longer than the others. 

 There are about 300 setigerous somites, of which the first three or four 

 are longer than the others. Nearly terete, but slightly flattened ven- 

 trally where the muscle coats are considerably thickened particularly 

 toward the ends. All somites clearly marked, but short and uniannu- 

 late. The anus is a large dorsal slit reaching through 7 or 8 faintly 

 marked somites and followed by a minute tubercle-like pygidium. 



The branchiae are numerous and crowded and usually more or less 

 spirally coiled. They differ much in size, probably, however, only as 

 a result of loss and regeneration, but their length does not exceed 

 about five times the diameter of the body. Beginning with the first 

 setigerous a pair occurs on every somite except the last thirty, arising 

 immediately dorsad of the notopodial setae or from the margin of the 

 elevated band just above them. On the seventh setigerous somite 

 occur the special branchia? in a pair of dense tufts of about 20, arranged 

 in two transverse rows which nearly meet medially. They are mostly 

 smaller than the ordinary branchiae, and owing to the crowding of this 

 region usually appear to cover two somites, either VII and VIII or 

 VIII and IX." 



The setigerous tubercles (PI. XXXVIII, figs, 26, 27) are separated 

 by a smooth space about 3 or 4 times as broad as they, and both are 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



placed on a wide elevated band, the dorsal margin of which rises 

 prominently about the notopodial tubercles and bears the branchiae on 

 its edge. The usual spines and capillary setse are present, distributed 

 as follows: Anterior to somite XL the latter only occur, but at XL 

 or thereabout small, nearly colorless spines appear among the capillary 

 bristles in the neuropodial fascicles; by L there are usually five, quite 

 distinct and dark colored, though small; they alternate with the setse, 

 and as the latter diminish the former increase in number, the maximum 

 of six being found from about C to CL, behind which the capillary setse 

 have nearly or quite disappeared, and the number of the spines be- 

 comes again reduced to four or five, a number which remains constant 

 to the end, though further diminution in size occurs. In the notopodial 

 fascicles the spmes are smaller, slightly more numerous and first appear 

 a little more caudad than in the ventral fascicles, 



Cirratulus luxuriosus n. s. (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 28 to 31.) 



Form slender throughout, thickest at about end of anterior third 

 (somite C), tapering thence very gently to posterior end. The type 

 and largest specimen is 110 mm. long and 4.5 mm. in diameter at somite 

 C. In the best-preserved specimens the body is strongly convex above, 

 concave below and angulated at the setse levels, particularly the neiu-o- 

 podial, Prostomium about three-fifths as long as broad, rounded 

 anteriorly, depressed, slightly retracted within the peristomium, 

 grooved below in the middle line, thus leaving a pair of lateral palp- 

 like thickenings which bound the mouth above; no eyes nor sensory 

 slits apparent. Peristomium somewhat inflated, about twice as long 

 as the prostomium and divided into two or three annuli. Setigerous 

 annuli numerous (358 in the type), all very short and distinct, those of 

 the posterior third rather longer and with faint indications of irregu- 

 lar division into two wings. The branchise form a conspicuous tangled 

 mass, and even in the alcoholic specimens are very long, equalling ten 

 times the diameter of the body but, unlike C. spirabranchus , exhibiting 

 little tendency to coil spirally. They begin on the first setigerous 

 somite in contact with the notopodia above, but continually rise to a 

 higher level, until toward the posterior end they are much nearer to the 

 dorsal middle line than to the setse. To the 200th somite at least a 

 pair of branchise occurs on every somite, but for the next 70 or 80 

 on every second, third or fourth somite only; there is no diminution in 

 size posteriorly. The special branchise are in a pair of close tufts 

 crowded on the sides principally of the fourth setigerous somite. The 

 number appears to be 12 or 14 on each side, but cannot be ascertained 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



with certainty. Anus rather small, nearly transverse, widely open 

 and succeeded by a small median ventral tubercle. 



The setigerous tubercles (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 28 to 30) are very 

 small, not elevated on any special muscular band, though appearing 

 at the lateral angles posteriorly, and are well separated throughout. 

 The first 30 somites bear capillary setae only. Spines appear at that 

 point in the ventral fascicle and soon become thick and dark brown. 

 By XL there are usually four of these spines associated with capillary 

 setae, but the number soon becomes reduced to three, the number of 

 capillary setae simultaneously diminishing. From CXX to CL there are 

 two spines and the capillary setae have disappeared ; beyond CL there 

 is one (or rarely two) large, stout, nearly black spine which continues 

 to increase gradually in size. Toward the posterior end a reverse 

 change begins, and behind CCC there are usually two comparatively 

 slender and pale spines. In the notopodial fascicles spines appear later, 

 the first at about L. At about C three small pale spines usually occur, 

 with the capillary setae. The fascicles undergo changes analogous to 

 those just described, but in the same segment the spines are almost 

 always more numerous, not over one-third as large and always asso- 

 ciated with capillary setae. 

 Maldane disparidentata n. s. (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 28 to 31.) 



The length of complete examples is from 100 to 150 mm., and 4 to 6 

 mm. in diameter in the somewhat contracted state; some fragments 

 indicate specimens of larger size. Probably owing in part to contraction, 

 as indicated by a distinct fold of the first setigerous somite which over- 

 laps the head ventrally, the latter is truncated with little obliquity; its 

 V ntral length, including the united prostomium and peristomium, 

 is scarcely one-third more than the dorsal. Cephalic plate broadly 

 oblong-elliptical, its width at least four-fifths its length, the surface 

 smooth and slightly elevated in the center. The frontal ridge low, 

 broad and inconspicuous; beginning just anterior to this elevation and 

 ending anteriorly in the palpode ; its length equal to one-third the cepha- 

 lic plate; posteriorly one-third as wide as the plate, gradually widening 

 for its posterior half, then suddenly expanding into the palpode which 

 is broad, thick, rounded, smooth and separated from the cephalic 

 margin laterally by only a slight emargination. Sensory slits short, 

 sharply defined but inconspicuous. Cephalic margin nowhere much 

 produced, low and thick, probably in part the result of contraction; 

 a pair of lateral clefts divide the posterior one-third from the anterior 

 two-thirds. The former is lower, embraces the latter at the sides and 

 has its margin divided into about fifteen low, broad, truncate teeth, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 495 



very irregular and inconstant in different individuals, but always dimin- 

 ishing in size and distinctness toward the posterior middle line and 

 often grouped in pairs. The lateral lobes, which reach forward to 

 the palpode, are considerably more elevated and bear five or six larger, 

 more prominent, rounded teeth. The mouth is a conspicuous opening 

 bounded behind by a transverse fold and laterally by distinct thickened 

 lobes. Behind it is a distinct peristomial half-ring rendered more 

 conspicuous by contraction. 



There are nineteen setigerous somites, the first seven thick-walled 

 and largely glandular, the first six strongly biannulate with the anterior 

 ring larger and setigerous. This region is usually slightly depressed 

 with each of the first six somites about as long as wide, but the unian- 

 nular seventh only ec[ualling the larger anterior ring of the others. 

 Behind VIII the somites increase gradually in length and become some- 

 what narrower to XVI, which is three times as long as wide; XVIII, 

 XIX and XX become successively shorter. From the eighth to the 

 nineteenth inclusive the parapodia are posterior in position, and the 

 more anterior are situated on complete glandular zones which soon be- 

 come incomplete and restricted to the lateral faces of the somites. 

 Distinct constrictions occur at the in termetameric furrows which are 

 rendered much more conspicuous by the prominent tori preceding them. 

 The surface of all somites is more or less annularly furrowed and bears 

 numerous small glandular and sensory papillae. The last somite (XXI) 

 bears no setse and is smooth and uniannulated. Caudally it enlarges and 

 passes gradually into the anal funnel, dorsad of which the anus is situ- 

 ated behind a somewhat wrinkled anterior fold. The anal funnel con- 

 sists of two parts, the ventral funnel proper, the cavity of which reaches 

 to the anterior end of the anal segment while the margin is even and 

 not at all flaring, and the dorsal platform, which arises within the dorsal 

 part of the ventral funnel and spreads in a flat, broad petaloid form 

 vertically behind the anus. The margins of both parts are slightly 

 irregular, but entirely without lobes or processes. 



On the anterior somites the parapodia are strictly lateral, on the 

 posterior ventro-lateral and more prominent. Somite II bears setae 

 alone. III to XX both dorsal setse and ventral uncini. The setae are 

 of three forms which, however, vary and intergrade. The several 

 kinds arise in more or less distinct fascicles, but spread in such a man- 

 ner that they appear at the surface in pairs or triplets composed of one 

 of each kind; thus on II they form a fan-shaped figure of about 25 

 pairs, on III about 15, on IV 12, on V 10 and a more irregular arrange- 

 ment in triples on the abdominal segments. Slender capillary wingless 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



setae, rather abruptly attenuated at the surface of the body wall, occur 

 in all setigerous somites. The anterior ones project about one-third 

 as far ar the larger setse, but in the posterior segments they become 

 much longer and filamentous. Winged setse also occur in all somites. 

 They are about three or four times the diameter of the smaller ones in 

 their exposed parts and quite deeply colored, nearly straight, tapered 

 to an acute tip, broadly winged on one margin and very slightly on 

 the other. The stoutest ones occur in the posterior thoracic somites, 

 where also setse of intermediate form are present, some of the smaller 

 ones having short basal wings. In the abdominal bimdles most of 

 the larger setse are provided with delicate doubly spirally fringed tips 

 (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 35) which differ considerably in length, the longest 

 in the middle abdominal region forming more than one-half of the 

 exposed portion. Posteriorly the number of setse is reduced, the fila- 

 mentous ones predominating. 



The uncini are all rather stout and of a deep yellow color; 7 or 8 

 occur on III, about 10 on V, and about 35 on VIII and the following 

 somites. On somites III to V the uncini have the form shoTvm in PI. 

 XXXVIII, fig. 32. The stems are very slightly curved, strongly stri- 

 ated and have a scarcel}^ perceptible shoulder; the heads are but little 

 enlarged with a blunt pointed beak bent at an angle of 100° to 120°; 

 a crest composed of two rows of teeth, the anterior with a few large 

 teeth in the middle, the posterior and lateral smaller, and a simple 

 guard of about 12 spreading hairs ending at the tip of the beak. On 

 the remaining somites the crochets form a much longer row and have 

 the stems more curved, the shoulder larger, the head more expanded, 

 the beak much longer, more acute, much more strongly hooked at an 

 acute angle, the crest more elevated, with the smaller teeth in more 

 numerous rows and more closely embracing the base of the beak, and 

 the guard arising from a distinct flange below a re-entering angle (PI. 

 XXXVIII, fig. 33). 



This species is represented by a large number of examples. 



Terebella (Schmardanella) californica n. .=. (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 36, 37.) 



This species has the general aspect of Amphiti'ite spiralis Johnson, 

 from which it is readily separated by the much smaller number of 

 setigerous somites in addition to other characters. The type measures 

 75 mm. from the pygidium to the tip of the prostomium, but another 

 less perfect specimen is nearly twice as large; the diameter at X is 3.3 

 mm. The prostomium is prominent, little arched, projects forward 

 and is faintly trilobed its margin slightly revolute and its lateral por- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



tion distinctly reflexed. Eyes absent. Tentacles very numerous, 

 deeply grooved, arising from the posterior border of the prostomium 

 for its entire width in three or four transverse crowded rows, behind 

 which is a slightly elevated border. Most of the tentacles are colorless, 

 but usually some are pale brown. Mouth large with a broad peris- 

 tomial lower lip. Peristomium about as long as succeeding somites, 

 distinctly visible as a ring both above and below. 



Branchise two pairs on the posterior part of somites II and III, the 

 first just anterior to the first seta3 tuft, the second above and behind it. 

 All of the branchise are prominent, and of about equal size. They 

 are of a spreading bushy form; the main stem very short, dichotomy 

 occurring almost immediately and the outermost branch again dividing 

 at once, so that three main branches appear to arise almost separately. 

 After about four or five dichotomous divisions, which are usually un- 

 equal, one or two uregular divisions occur, the result being a very 

 large number of terminal twigs. When contracted the minor divisions 

 coil inward toward the axis, so that the gill presents a very compact 

 appearance. There is, however, much irregularity in this respect, 

 some of the filaments merely shortening, others coiling spirally. 



The body is slender and club-shaped, nearly terete throughout the 

 abdominal region, gently tapered to the anus and the anterior end of 

 the thorax somewhat enlarged. The thoracic segments increase 

 slightly in diameter to about X, and then decrease very gradually into 

 the abdominal region. The dorsum is regularly arched, the venter 

 somewhat angulated, fiattened or slightly convex, according to the 

 state of the specimen. Above the somites are somewhat indistinctly 

 separated and somewhat irregularly divided into three rings which are 

 usually again biannulate. On the ventral half the intersegmental fm'- 

 rows are well marked and the somites only biannulated. This region 

 is also rough and thickened, and separated from the faintly granu- 

 lated, thin-walled dorsal region by a longitudinal groove below which 

 is a ridge-like row of glandular thickenings. The first one or two ven- 

 tral plates are very short. They increase in length to the tenth, and 

 in width decrease regularly and gradually to the sixteenth, which is 

 square, while the tenth is twice, and the fifth three times as wide as 

 long. Usually a cross-furrow divides each one and the surface is 

 wrinkled. On most specimens the fifth or sixth plate is sunken below 

 the general surface. Behind the sixteenth they become very small, 

 but may be traced for some distance further. The thorax passes very 

 gradually into the abdomen, which is very prommently arched and 

 thin-walled, the somites numerously and finely ringed and indistinctly 

 32 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



separated from one another. At the posterior end the metamerism 

 becomes obscure and the pygidium is truncated. 



Throughout the thoracic and much of the abdominal region the 

 uncinigerous tori are prominent. They begin on V, increase in length 

 to about XIII, remain practically uniform to about XX, and then very 

 gradually diminish, the last thoracic beuig about equal to the seventh. 

 As they become smaller and the ventral plates narrower, the tori are 

 carried more and more to the ventral surface, imtil in the middle ab- 

 dominal region they form bead-like swellings on a pair of muscular 

 ridges separated by a narrow median groove. Toward the posterior 

 end they^ are barely recognizable. Setigerous tubercles begin on IV, 

 and continue for from twenty-three to twenty-eight somites, tw^enty- 

 six being the most frequent number. They stand out prominently 

 from the dorsal end of the tori, especially the anterior ones, which bear 

 the greatest number of setae. Whitish glandular thickenings occur 

 just dorsadiof the setae lobes as far as somite XXII and prominent 

 nephridial papillae from VII to XX inclusive, and less prominently 

 and regularly on some of the succeeding somites. 



The setse (PI, XXXVIII, fig. 36) are noteworthy for the prominence 

 of their pennant-like fringed tips. They are arranged as a single row 

 of larger ones flanked on one or both sides by a row of smaller setae. 

 The former are straight or slightly cm'ved, with about one-half of the 

 exposed portion included in a loose sheath beginning abruptly and 

 tapering to the terminal pennant which begins as a sudden, much 

 flattened, very thin angulated expansion, curved strongly to one side, 

 tapered to a delicate point and prominently fringed on one margin. 

 The smaller setae are little more than one-half as thick as their exposed 

 parts, only half as long as the larger. Their form is generally similar, 

 but the' sheath is less evident and the tips broader, longer and more 

 abruptly bent to one side. Setae of the fu'st tuft are more slender and 

 of the posterior ones fewer than elsewhere. 



The uncini (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 37) are biserial and opposite on XI 

 and all following somites; uniserial on those anterior to XI. They 

 have a rather short base strongly convex below with a prominent toe, 

 a small posterior ligament process and a subrostral process with a 

 guard; the sinus is narrow with subparallel sides, the beak long, acute 

 and strongly hooked and the crest prominent, elevated and composed of 

 three or four transverse tooth rows, the lowermost large. On the 

 posterior somites the uncini are small, lack the posterior ligament 

 process and are consequently less angulated and they have a larger 

 number of teeth in the crest. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



Distylia rugosa n. s. (PI. XXXVIII, figs. 38 to 41.) 



This is a large, handsome species, somewhat resembling Bispira 

 polymorpha Johnson, but differing from that species in the fewer spiral 

 tm-ns of the branchial base, the greater number of branchial radioles, 

 the arrangement of the eyes, the form of the spatulate thoracic setae 

 and pick-shaped uncini and probably the deep rugous dorsal folds. 



Exclusive of the branchiee, the type is 67 mm. long, the width at the 

 posterior end of the thorax to the middle abdominal region being 8 

 mm. and the depth at the same points 6 and 5 mm. respectively. The 

 ventral ends of the stiff, cartilage-like branchial bases are prolonged 

 and spirally coiled, but make only 1^ tm-ns. The radioles, which reach 

 a length of 22 mm. at the dorsal and somew^hat less at the ventral end 

 of the series, arise to the number of 58 on the left, 55 on the right, in a 

 crowded, closely interlocking double row from the entire distal margin 

 of the basal lobes. Each is strictly simple and perfectly free from the 

 others to the base; the outer surface is rounded and the inner bears 

 the numerous barbs, which have a length about twice the diameter of 

 the radiole, in a crowded double series for its entire length except a 

 short naked terminal region. In this species the eyes are less perfect 

 but far more numerous than in D. polymorpha, the number on each 

 radiole approximating 100. They are very irregularly distributed in 

 groups on both margins, most plentifully on the distal half, where a 

 very constant group of large eye-spots occurs just proximad of the 

 naked tip. In the type the branchiae are pale-colored, each plimie 

 with three brown spots, one near the base and two m the outer half ; 

 the other specimen has the gills almost continuously pale reddish- 

 brown mottled with white, especially on the basal half. The palpal 

 membrane has a free margin completely encirclmg the bases of the 

 branchial radioles within. It extends around the sides of the mouth, 

 ventrad to which the two halves meet as a pair of vertical plates con- 

 tiguous to the middle line, and entering the ventral collar incision 

 partly join the somewhat swollen bases of the ventral collar lobes. 

 The tentacles are about as long as the basal branchial lobes, and have 

 the basal half broadly margined, the distal half filamentous. 



The collar is rather thick, stiff, flarmg and prominent throughout 

 its extent. The dorsal opening is equal to nearly | the body width at 

 the peristomium, with the broadly rounded dorsal lobes bounding it 

 slightly, curving around the dorsal side of the first pair of setae fascicles, 

 but free from them. The ventral opening is narrow but deep and, as 

 mentioned above, is partly occupied by the ventral prolongations of 

 the circumoral membrane; on each side of it are the short, broad and 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



thick ventral lobes. There is a pair of slight lateral emarginations, but 

 no well-marked incisions. 



Except at the rounded peristomium the body is depressed. It in- 

 creases in width to the end of the thorax, from which point it diminishes 

 very gently to the posterior one-tenth or beyond, and then very rapidly 

 to the small pygidium, on each side of which is a conspicuous cluster 

 of numerous brown pigmented eye-spots. There are 8 setigerous 

 • thoracic and 107 abdominal segments. The coalesced peristomium 

 and first setigerous somite are about twice as long as succeeding somites. 

 Besides the collar they bear an undivided, very thick ventral plate, 

 which is about twice as long and much wider than any succeeding 

 thoracic plate, but about equal in the latter respect to the first abdomi- 

 nal. The remaining thoracic plates are about equal in length, but 

 from the third, which is the narrowest, they increase gradually in 

 width to the last. Owing to lateral extensions anterior to the unci- 

 nigerous tori, the margms of the ventral plates are strongly serrated. 

 The abdominal ventral plates are also thick and occupy about three- 

 fifths of the ventral area. Widest at the anterior end, the first 15 or 

 20 become gradually narrower, after which there is no change until at 

 the posterior end of the body they diminish correspondingly. Through- 

 out they are sharply defined by straight margins. In the alcoholic 

 specimens all of the segments are short and sharply defined, and an 

 " extensive area on the dorsal surface is thrown into very deep rugous 

 glandular folds, occupying on the posterior one-third of the type speci- 

 men the entire width of the dorsal area, but anteriorly becoming lower 

 and more and more restricted to the middle region imtil they finally 

 fade out. On the second specimen they are less conspicuously devel- 

 oped, but are otherwise similar. A well-marked f a cal groove divides 

 the abdominal ventral plates into equal halves to the first, cuts this 

 obliquely to the left and passes dorsad in the thoracico-abdominal 

 groove to the level of the abdominal setaj tufts, and then obliquely 

 across the last thoracic somite dorsal to its setae tuft to the middle line, 

 along which it proceeds as a deep and conspicuous groove to the dorsal 

 collar openmg. 



All setae tufts are large and prominent, the abdominal strictly verti- 

 cal and ventral, the thoracic dorsal and slightly ob'ique, except the first, 

 which is nearly horizontal, entirely free from the collar and sliglitly 

 smaller than the others. The imcinigerous tori are also well marked, on 

 the thoracic i^omites meeting the ventral plates below and slightly 

 hooked backward above. The first pair, on the second setigerous 

 somite, are the longest; the seventh and last about three-fourths as 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



long; reduction in length takes place at both ends and the setae tufts 

 descend to a correspondingly lower level. All abdominal tori are 

 shorter than the last thoracic and they diminish gradually and con- 

 stantly to the posterior end. They are especially prominent dorsally 

 where they terminate in a prominent projection marked with a con- 

 spicuous black spot. 



All setae are nearly colorless, translucent and striated. Those of the 

 first or collar fascicle are all of one form, slender, narrowly lanceolate, 

 slightly curved and with a single narrow wing, but differ consider- 

 ably in length. On other thoracic somites those in the dorsal rows of 

 the bundles are similar (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 38), but the ventral ones 

 (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 39) are shorter, spatulate, doubly winged, and have 

 acute but not mucronate tips; they differ somewhat in curvature and 

 breadth of wings, but the one figured is typical. The abdominal setae 

 are again all of one kind, rather more broadly lanceolate than, but 

 otherwise similar to, those of the collar fascicle. 



The thoracic uncmi are of two kinds — large aviculae and smaller 

 pick-shaped hooks, arranged in opposed parallel rows, there being 105 

 of each on II, 97 on V, and 90 on VIII on the type specimen. The 

 aviculse (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 40) are of a very pale yellow, the bases 

 long, slender, slightly curved ; the neck and head prominent and erect, 

 slightly inclined forward; the breast prominent, hemispherical; the 

 neck slightly tapered and about as long as thick at the base, the head 

 scarcely enlarged with the rather stout but acute beak strongly bent 

 downward, the crest little elevated and forming a dense sheath of fine 

 spines arranged in numerous transverse and longitudinal rows closely 

 appressed on the upper half of the beak. Abdominal aviculse differ 

 only in their somewhat shorter bases and less prominent breasts. They 

 are not associated with pick-shaped uncini and the type specimen has 

 about 80 in each torus. 



The pick-shaped uncini (PI. XXXVIII, fig. 41) have stems about as 

 long as the bases of the aviculae, but much more slender; they are 

 nearly straight, but more or less slightly enlarged and bent at about the 

 beginning of the outer one-third. The tip curves to a short blunt 

 point enclosed within a loose expanded hood, from which arises a deli- 

 cate, colorless, very slender process, making an angle of about 60° 

 with the stem. 



Except as already described for the branchiae, all pigment has faded 

 out. Distylia Quatrefages is employed instead of the earlier Bis'pira 

 Kroyer, because the author of the latter seems never to have applied 

 the name to any species. 




502 proceedings of the academy op [may, 



Explanation of Plates. 



Plate XXXVII. 



Diopatra californica, Figs. 1 to 9. 



Fig. 1 . — Large guarded and hooked seta from the middle of the third para- 

 podium. X 250. 

 Fig. 2. — Small one from ventral bundle of the same. X 250. 

 Fig. 3. — Simple slender seta from the same. X 250. 

 Fig. 4. — Broader winged seta from the tenth parapodium. X 250. 

 Fig. 5. — Spatulate and pectinate seta from the same. X 440. 

 Fig, 6. — Crochet-shaped aciculus from the twenty-fifth parapodium. X 250. 

 Fig. 7. — Simple pointed aciculus from L. X 250. 

 Fig. 8.— Simple blunt aciculus from LXXV. X 250. 

 Fig. 9. — Jaws, all parts in dorsal view; on the left the maxillae are shown 

 in situ, on the right the plates are separated. X 8, 



Eunice biannulata, figs. 10 to 18. 



Fig. 10. — Compound seta from second parapodium. X 250. 



Fig. 11. — Compound seta from somite LXX. X 250. 



Fig. 12. — Slender seta from second parapodium. X 250. 



Fig. 13. — Pointed aciculus from the first parapodium. X 250. 



Fig. 14. — Flattened aciculus from X. X 250. 



Fig. 15. — Dorsal aciculus from LXV. X 250. 



Fig. 16. — Dorsal aciculus from LXX. X 250. 



Fig. 17. — Hooked and guarded ventral aciculus from LXV. X 250. 



Fig. 18. — Dissected jaws viewed from above. X 12. 



Lnmbriconereis erecia, figs. 19 to 22. 



Figs. 19, 20, and 21.— Anterior views of the 10th, 100th and 250th parapodia 



respectivelv. X 33. 

 Fig. 22.— Mandible. X 8. 



Plate XXXVIII. 



Lumhriconereis erecta, figs. 23 to 25. 



Figs. 23 and 24. — Slender winged seta from the 10th and 25th parapodia 



respectively. X 130. 

 Fig. 25. — Hooded crochet from middle of the 10th parapodium. X 250. 



Cirratulus spirabranchus , figs. 26 and 27. 



Fig. 26. — Outline of side of 50th setigerous somite. X 24. 

 Fig. 27. — Same of 150th setigerous somite. X 24. a, ventral, and b, dor- 

 sal spine. X 55. 



Cirratulus luxuriosus , figs. 28 to 31. 



Fig. 28. — Outline of side of 50th setigerous somite. X 24. 



Fig. 29. — Outline of side of 150th setigerous somite. X 24. 



Fig. 30. — Outline of side of 150th setigerous somite. X 24. 



Fig. 31. — A spine from the ventral bundle of the 50th somite. X 55. 



Maldane disparidentata, figs. 32 to 35. 



Fig. 32. — Outer end of a crochet from the 2d setigerous somite. X 250. " 

 Fig. 33. — Outer end of a crochet from the 14th setigerous somite. X 250. 

 Fig. 34. — Front view of the last. X 250. 

 Fig. 35. — Portion of a spirally fringed seta from the 14th somite. X 440. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Schmardanella califomica, figs. 36 and 37. 



Fig. 36. — A seta from somite XI. X 600. 



Fig. 37. — An uncinus from tlie same somite. X 600. 



Distylia rugosa, figs. 38 to 41. 



Fig. 38. — Slender seta from dorsal part of VI. X 250. 

 Fig. 39. — Broad seta from ventral part of VI. X 250. 

 Fig. 40. — Avicular uncinus from VI. X 250. 

 Fig. 41. — Pick-shaped uncinus from VI. X 440. 



Fig. 42. — Eunice biannulata. A spatulate and pectinate seta from a middle 

 parapodium. X 440. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE FISHES OF NANTUCKET. 



BY DR. BENJAMIN SHARP AND HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Fish are taken in Nantucket by hand-lines, trolling, litie-trawls, 

 drift- and set-nets and pounds or traps. Hand-lining is employed for 

 scup, plaice, flatfish, cod, haddock, and in times past for dogfish and 

 halibut. The line-trawls are used in the spring and fall for cod and 

 haddock, drift-nets in the spring for mackerel, set-nets in the summer 

 and fall for bluefish and bonito. The two poimds fixed in water of 

 about 4 fathoms are inside, that is on the west of Great Point, about 

 midway between the Koskata U. S. Life Saving Station and Great 

 Point Lighthouse. These pounds are the property of the Petrel Fishing 

 Company, which employs a small steamer and a sailboat. Every 

 species of commercial fish found about the island has been taken in 

 the pound, and many others mentioned in this list. Bluefish are very 

 rarely found in them. During the spring of the year the steamer 

 Petrel is employed drifting for mackerel off the south side of the islands 

 of Nantucket and Tuckernuck. During the summer she steams around 

 the island for bluefish and an occasional trip is made for swordfish, 

 when she cruises some 30 or 40 miles from the land. The bluefish are 

 taken by sweeping nets around a school of fish. This is done by dories 

 which put out from the steamer when a school is discovered. 



The steamer Waquoit is also employed in fishing for mackerel, sword- 

 fish and bluefish. This steamer and the Petrel are the only two steam 

 fishing-boats owned in Nantucket. 



The line-trawls are used in the spring and fall in the cod and haddock 

 fisheries. These are set from dories which put out from the beaches 

 on the south and east sides of the island when the weather permits, 

 and on returning are hauled up out of the surf to a safe place and the 

 fish carted to town. 



At Quidnet there are a number of houses where the Portuguese salt 

 codfish. Salting and drying codfish is also carried on by a number 

 of fishermen from the Cape. They have established a small village on 

 Coatuc ("New Chatham"), and in catboats sail out of the "opening" 

 at the head of the harbor and fish off the eastern side of the island. 



A gasoline-power boat, the San Antonio, has recently been built by 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



some enterprising Portuguese on Nantucket, and is employed in various 

 kinds of fishing about the island. 



The set-nets, used in the fall for catching bonito, are hung in the 

 "Cod" of the Bay — the sheet of water enclosed by the arm of the 

 island called Great Pomt. 



Collections of Nantucket fishes have been made by the senior writer 

 and presented by him to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia. The * affixed to certain species indicates that material from 

 this source has been examined. 



In conclusion, we wish to thank the members of the "Petrel Com- 

 pany " for their kindness and interest in helping us in this work. 



PETROMYZONTIDiE. 

 Petromyzon marinus Linnaeus. (" Lamprey.") 



Specimen taken in the pound, April 28, 1904, about 3 feet in length. 



GALEORHINID^. 

 ♦Mustelus canis (Mitchill). 



Found associated with Squalus acanthias. 



Prionace glauca (Linnceus). ("Blue Dog." "Man-eater.") 



Caught with the sand shark (Carcharias littoralis), but by no means 

 so common. 



"Sharking" is one of the sports of the island. Those caught are 

 not used now commercially. Some years ago, when "sharking" was 

 carried on regularly at Wawinet, a village at the head of the harbor, 

 the livers of all the sharks caught were saved, dried out in the sun and 

 the oil shipped away. 

 Carcharliinus obscurus (Le Sueur) 7 



About 6 or 8 examples probably of this or some closely related 

 species have been taken at various times at or near Great Point. A 

 large example was taken by the senior writer during the summer of 

 1877, weighing 650 pounds. It measured 11 feet 6 inches. 



SPHYRNID^. 

 *Sphyrna zygaena (Linnaeus). 



Two examples seen. One washed ashore many years ago, and another 

 taken in a set-net September 25, 1903. The latter examined by the 

 junior writer. 



ALOPIID^. 

 Alopias vulpes (Gmelin). ("Thrasher.") 



Two examples seen. Both taken at Great Point, one with a line 

 and the other in the pound. The tail of the latter measured 7h feet. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



LAMNID^. 

 Isurus dekayi (Gill)? ("Mackerel Shark.") 



Taken in the spring in the mackerel drift-nets. 



CARCHARIID^. 

 *Carcliarias littoralis (Mitchill). ("Sand Shark.") 



This is the commonest shark in these waters. They are taken on 

 lines and sometimes rolled up in the set-nets. Occasionally in the har- 

 bor. A small one was taken a few years ago in one of the doclcs. It 

 measm-ed about 5 feet. 



SQUALID.^. 



Squalus acanthias Linnseus. (" Dog Fish.") 



They breed on the bar in May. Some years ago they were regularly 

 fished for by sailboats. They were so plentiful that it was the custom 

 to break off the barb of the hook to make it easier to get the fish off 

 when caught. They are a great nuisance to the mackerel fishermen, 

 not only in tearing the nets, but in mangling the mackerel already 

 in the net. In October, 1903, for two or three days they filled up the 

 pounds. 



RAJIDJE. 

 Kaja erinacea Mitchill. (" Skate.") 



Common all about the island and associated with — 



Eaja laevis (Mitchill). (" Skate.") 



MYLIOBATID^. 

 Ehinoptera bonasus (Mitchill). 

 Only one specimen seen. Taken in the pound, October 16, 1902. 



ACIPENSERIDJB. 

 Acipenser sturio Linnseus. ("Sturgeon.") 



Often seen "breaking" (jumping out of water) on still days off the 

 east end of the island. Occasionally taken in the nets. 



ANGUILLID^. 

 *Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. ("Eel.") 



Taken by spearing in shallow water in the harbor and in Madequet 

 " creek/' a tide-water stream at the western end of the island. They 

 are also taken at night torching and with the " bob." In winter holes 

 are cut in the ice and the eel-spear thrust through into the mud and 

 many eels taken. This was especially resorted to in the long freeze-up 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



of 1904. A perfect albino specimen was taken by Henry Folger in 

 the spring of 1903 and is now in the Academy's coUection.^ 



ELOPIDJE. 

 ♦Elops saurus Linnaeus. (" Lady Fish.") 



Taken in the pound in October, 1903. 



CLUPEID^. 



Clupea harengus Linnaeus. ("Herring.") 



Taken in the spring by opening the south head of the Hummock 

 pond (fresh-water) to the sea. As they rim in they are scooped out 

 with hand-nets. Many remain through the summer in the pond after 

 it is closed. They are also taken in the pound. 



Pomolobus pseudohareiigus (Wilson) ? (" Herring.") 

 Alosa sapidissima (Wilson). ("Shad.") 



A few taken in the poimd in the spring of 1901. Tradition says that 

 they were common about the island before the bluefish became so 

 numerous. Thirty-six taken April 29, 1904, and 30 taken May 7, 

 1904, in the poimds. 



*Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). (" Menhaden.") 



SALMONID^. 

 Salmo salar Linnaeus. ("Salmon.") 



One weighing 3^ pounds taken off Tuckernuck in the mackerel drift- 

 nets of the Waquoit on the night of May 6 and 7, 1904. 



PCECILIID^. 

 ♦Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). (" Cat Fish.") 



Caught with the following about the wharves l^y boys, and the name 

 given as they are caught for cats' food. 

 ♦Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). ("Cat Fish.") 



Abundant about the wharves. Used with the above for bait for 

 plaice fish. 



SYNGNATHIDJE. 

 Siphostoma fuscum (Storer). (" Pipe Fish.") 



Conunon on the bars in August and September. Associated with 

 and closely resembling floating eel-grass. This is undoubtedly a case 

 of color and form protection, 



*A spotted eel about four feet long has been noticed by the senior writer. 

 Three specimens were seen at different times, one on exhibition four or five years 

 ago and two were seen in October, 1902, which were sent to Albany by Sydney 

 Fisher. They were called Conger Eels by the fishermen, and thought to be related 

 to Murcena ocellata. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ATHERINIDu?E. 

 ♦Menidia notata (Mitchill). 



BBLONIDiE. 

 *Tylosurus acus (Lacdpfede). ("Bill Fish.") 



Rare. One taken September 23, 1901, and another August, 1903, 

 in the pound. 



SOOMBRID^. 

 Scomber scombrus Linnaeus. ("Mackerel.") 



Caught in drift-nets which are set at night off the south side of the 

 island in the spring of the year. Sometimes in the fall they are taken 

 on hand-lines in Nantucket Sound. Some taken also in the pounds. 

 First taken (in the pound) in 1904, April 28. On April 29, 32 taken; 

 on May 6 and 7, 160 taken by steamer Waquoit "drifting" off south 

 side. 



Thunnus thynnus (Linnaeus). (" Horse Mackerel.") 



Caught around the island by the Petrel with swordfish gear, and also 

 in the pounds. Schools of 60 or 70 have been seen. 



Sarda sarda (Bloch). ("Bonito.") 



Caught in set-nets through September and October, rarely caught 

 trolling. 



Scomberomorus maculatus (Mitchill). ("Spani.'ih Mackerel.") 



TBICHIURID^. 

 *Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus. (" Hair Tail. ') 



Three large examples secured, four in all, taken in the pound in July, 

 1903. 



XIPHIID^. 

 Xiphias gladius Linnaeus. ("Sword Fish.") 



Common in July -off the south side of the island, from 20 to 40 

 miles from the land. They are taken by the ordinary swordfish 

 gear by the steamers Petrel and Waquoit. Many years ago sail- 

 boats from Nantucket made a business of swordfishing. 



CARANQID^. 

 *Seriola zonata (MitchiU). ("Rudder Fish.") 



Taken in pound, 1903. 



*Caranx crysos (Mitchill). ("Yellow Tail.") 



Taken in pound, 1903. 



Selene vomer (Linnaeus). ("Moon Fish.") 



A small example taken in the pound, September 26, 1901. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Trachinotus carolinus (Linnaeus). (" Pompano.") 



Two examples taken in the pound, September, 1901. 

 POMATOMIDiE. 

 Pomatomus saltatrix (Linnseus). ("Blue Fish.") 



These are taken by trolling in the Rips— Muskeget Rip, Great Point 

 Rip and Bass Rip (off Sankaty Head)— and for many years great 

 numbers were caught by boats in the opening which broke through 

 some fifty years ago between Nantucket and Tuckernuck. This place 

 is now given up. When the bluefish first became common about the 

 island, in the early 60's, they were caught in the harbor, now they 

 are rarely seen there. Set-nets were also used, but of late these are 

 but little used. The Petrel gets them off the south and east ends of 

 the island by means of sweep-nets. When a school is seen— and this 

 can be done at some distance by the terns which hover over them— 

 the net is shot from dories and pulled around the school, the fish in 

 darting away get gilled and are then taken from the net. 



"Heaving and hauling"— i.e., throwing a drail or leaded hook from 

 the shore and hauling in— is now occasionally done at the south shore, 

 and on September 26, 1903, an example weighing 27 pounds was taken. 

 This is considerably larger than the largest heretofore reported by 

 Jordan and Evermann, Food and Game Fishes, 1902, p. 321, where one 

 weighing 22 pounds and measuring 3 feet in length is mentioned. 



Up to 1880 hundreds were often caught in an afternoon from the 

 south shore. 



C BNTROL OPHID^. 

 *Palinuriclitliys peroiformis (MitchiU). (" Rudder Fish.") 



STROMATEID^. 

 *Rhombus triacanthus (Peck). (" Butter Fish." "Butter Scup.") 



These have never been known to take a hook. All the specimens are 

 taken in the pounds, as many as twenty barrels having been obtained 

 in a day. The first taken in 1904 was on May 6, and two the next day. 



PERCID^. 



Perca flavescens (MitchiU). (" Pond Fish." "Perch.") 



Only taken in the fresh-water ponds, and very abundant. 



SERRANID^. 

 Roccus lineatus (Bloch). ("Striped Bass.") 



Rarely taken on the scup grounds. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Centropristes striatus (Linnaeus). (" Black Bass.") 



In October, 1903, about ten barrels were taken one day from the 

 pounds. Occasionally taken on the scup grounds. 



SPARID^. 



♦Stenotomus chrysops (Linnteus). (" Scup " [abbreviation of Indian word Mishcuppauog].) 



This is an important food fish, and until the introduction of the 

 pounds was only taken by hand-lines. They arrive in these waters 

 about June 1. The first fish are always the largest. Later in the sea- 

 son smaller ones occur. It is said that the first fishing-boat built with 

 a well (in 1763) was first employed in the scup fishery. In the summer 

 of 1903 these fish practically abandoned these waters, a few were 

 taken in the pounds, and the hand-lining was given up. The first 

 (two) were taken in the pound in 1904 on May 8. 



SCI^NID^. 

 *Cynoscioii regalis (Schneider). ("Squi-dee.") 



Common since the bluefish have become scarce. Occasionally 

 taken trolling, but never, as far as we know, have they been fished for 

 with rods — so commonly practiced in the Jersey waters. Large num- 

 bers taken in the pounds. 



Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). (" Whiting.") 



Taken with the mackerel in drift-nets in the spring and are given 

 away, not being very highly esteemed as a food fish. 



L ABRIDGE. 

 Tautogolabrus adspersus (Walbaum). (" Wharf Fish.") 



Fished by boys for cat food. Common about the wharves. 



Tautoga onitis (Linnaeus). C'Tautog.") 



Not common. Taken on the scup grounds and hi the pounds. 



BALISTID^. 



*Balistes vetula Linnaeus. ("Trigger Fish.") 



Taken on the scup grounds. The three secured were taken in the 

 pound in 1903. 



TETRAODONTID^. 

 Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). ("Swell-belly.") 



Taken on the scup grounds. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



MOLID^. 



Mola mola (Linnaeus). ("Sun Fish.") 



Rare. Seen in deep water on calm days about the island. One taken 

 some years ago was sent by Dr. Harold Williams to Tuffts College, 

 Massachusetts. 



COTTID.iE. 



♦Myoxoceplialus octodecemspinosus (Mitchill). (" Sculpin.") 



On scup grounds and in pound. One seen in pound, May 7, 1904. 



C YCLOPTERID.i^ . 

 Cyclopterus lumpus Linnaeus. ("Lump Fish.") 



One specimen (8 inches long) taken in the pound, May 8, 1904. 



TRIGLIDiE. 

 ♦Prionotus carolinus (Linnseus). (" Peter Grunter.") 



Common on scup grounds. At times as many as two or three 

 barrels taken in the pound. Not used as food. The senior writer has 

 often eaten them, and finds them excellent. Seen on May 6, 1904. 



ECHENEIDID^. 

 Echeneis naucrates Linnaeus. (" Sucker.") 



Rare. 



MERLUCCIID^. 

 Merluccius bilinearis (Mitchill). ("Hake.") 



But one adult seen. Taken in the trap October, 1903. In the spring 

 of 1902 the young, about 4 inches in length, were very abundant about 

 the wharves. 



GADID^. 

 FolacMus virens (Linnaeus). ("Pollock.") 



Caught trolling off east coast. Since the introduction of the pound 

 they have been taken in great numbers. From April 9 to May 5, 

 1904, very nearly 20,000 were taken by the Petrel. 



Gadus callarias Linnaeus. (" Cod.") 



Taken in the spring and fall by hand-lmes and line-trawls on the 

 shoals about the island and occasionally in the Sound at Long Hill. 

 Most of those taken by the Petrel Company are sent away, fresh, in ice, 

 some are pickled and others salted and dried. These fish for the 

 last two years have greatly diminished in number. 



Melanogrammus aeglefinus (Linnaeus). ("Haddock.") 



Mostly taken in the spring of the year. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



PLEURONEOTIDiE. 

 Hippoglossus hippoglossus (Linnaeus). ("Halibut.") 



Many years ago regularly fished for off Great Point. In April, 1904, 

 Mr, Burehell, while cod-fishing off the east end of the island, caught a 

 halibut on a codfish hook, but lost him. He estimated the fish, which 

 he saw, as weighing about 100 pounds. 



Paralichthys dentatus (Linnaeus). ("Plaice.") 



Very common on the bar in the summer of 1903. 



Paralichthys oblongus (Mitchill). (" Flounder.") 



Two or three taken in the pound early in May, 1904. 



Lophopsetta maculata (Mitchill). ("Flat Fish.") 

 Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Walbaiun). (" Winter Flounder.") 



Fished for in the harbor in the late fall and early spring. 



LOPHIID^. 



LopMus piscatorius Linnaeus. (" Goose Fish." "Monk Fish.") 



About fifty seen at one time in the pound in the fall of 1903, and 

 appeared to average from 50 to 75 pounds apiece. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIPJNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



513 



NOTES ON ORTHOPTERA FROM NORTHERN AND CENTRAL MEXICO. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The following study is based entirely on material in the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The States of 

 Chihuahua, Jalisco, San Luis Potosi and Tamaulipas arc represented 

 in the^ series of about four hundred specimens studied. The most 

 extensive series is that, comprising two hundred and sixty-four speci- 

 mens, collected in Jalisco, chiefly at Guadalajara, in 1903, by Mr. J. F. 

 McClendon, and purchased by the Academy. An exceedingly interest- 

 ing collection of seventy-one specimens from San Luis Potosi and 

 Tamaulipas was collected by Mr. M. E. Hoag, and this limited series has 

 furnished a surprising number of new and little known forms. Three 

 smaller collections are embraced in this study; a number of Guadala- 

 jara specimens collected and presented by Mr. C. H. T. Townsend; a 

 few interesting individuals from Victoria, Tamaulipas, collected by 

 S. N. Rhoads, and a series of Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, specimens, 

 collected and presented by Dr. W. E. Hughes. 



Family BLATTID^. 



Genu? PSEUDOMOPS Serville. 

 Pseudomops oblongata (Linnaeus). 



Tuxpan, Jalisco, September 4, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. ' 



Pseudomops discoidalis (Burmeister). 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24 and September 18, 1903. (Mc- 

 Clendon.) Two females. 



These specimens agree with the descriptions and single Orizaba 

 specimen examined, except that the antenna are not annulate with 

 whitish and the general color of the tegmina is more blackish. 



Periplaneta americana (Linnaeus). 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 

 Family MANTID^. 



Genus STAGMOMANTIS Saussure. 

 Stagmomantis limbata (Haan). 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 One male, five females. 



One of the females in this series represents the dark wine-color phase. 

 33 




r)14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jline, 



Genus OLIGONYX. 



1869. Oligonyx Saussure, Mittheil. SHiwoiz. Ent. GeselL, III, pp. 58, 71. 

 Included minuta Drury, hlcornis and filifonnis Saussure and fihim Lich- 

 tenstein. 



Oligonyx mexicanus Saussure and Zehntner. 



1894. Oligonyx mexicanus Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Ccnt.-Amer. . 

 Orth.,I, p. 172, tab. IX, figs. 13-15. [Presidio, Mexico; Cuhulco, Vera 

 Paz, Guatemala.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco, August 23, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 



This specimen is referred here with some little doubt as the pro- 

 notum is slightly shorter and the tegniina slightly longer than Saus- 

 sure and Zehntner's measurements, but these discrepancies are slight, 

 and the specimen in all probability represents this species. 



Genus VATES Burmeister. 

 Vates townsendi Rehn. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 9 and September IS, 1903. (McClen- 

 don.) One male, one female. 



Family PHASMID^. 

 Genus DIAPHEROMERA Gray. 

 Diapheromera calcarata Burmeister. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14, 1903. (McClendon.) Two 

 males. 



These specimens agree perfectly with individuals previoush' recorded 

 from Alta Mira, Tamaulipas.^ 



Genus PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell. 

 1903. Pseudosermyle Caudell, Proc. U. S. National Museum, XX'S'I, p. 867. 

 Type. — Pseudosermyle banksii Caudell. 

 Pseudosermyle tridens (Burmeister). 



Tuxpan, Jalisco. September 4, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco, September 18, 1903. (McClendon.) One 

 female. 



These specimens agree perfectly with a series of six specimens of 

 both sexes from Cuernavaca, Morelos and Iguala, Guerrero. 



Genus BOSTRA Stil. 

 Bostra jaliscensis n. sp. 



Type: a"; Tuxpan, Jalisco, Mexico. September 4, 1903. (J. F. 

 McClendon.) [Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.l 



Related to B. incompta Rehn,^ from Costa Rica, but differing in the 



» Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 50. 

 - Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 57. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



smaller size, more elongate and posteriorly constricted head, more 

 elongate ninth dorsal abdominal segment, heavier cerci and more pro- 

 duced inferior angle of the subgenital opercle. No close relationship 

 exists with B. dorsuaria Stal or turgida (Westwood). 



Size medium; form very elongate; surface smooth. Head dis- 

 tinctly longitudinal, the posterior portion with a marked but 

 gradual constriction; eyes elliptical, not prominent; ocelli absent; 

 antennae with the basal joint longitudinal, depressed, external margin 

 not distinctly sulcate. Pronotum slightly shorter than the head, 

 slightly expanded posteriorly; cruciform impression weak, the central 

 portion more apparent than the extremes; lateral margins distinctly 

 cingulate. Mesonotum very slender and elongate, equal to the median 

 femora. Metanotum (with median segment) two-thirds the length of 

 the mesonotum; median segment slightly shorter than the remaining 

 portion of the metanotum and slightly longer than the j&rst abdominal 

 segment. Abdomen with all the six basal segments quite elongate, 

 the fifth slightly and the sixth distinctly shorter than any of the basal 

 four; seventh, eighth and ninth segments subequal in length, the sev- 

 enth expanded apically, the eighth constricted apically, the ninth sub- 

 equal and with the apical half bearing several distinct longitudmal 

 sulci, apical margin sinuato-truncate ; cerci simple, straight, somewhat 

 compressed, slightly shorter than the ninth dorsal abdominal segment; 

 subgenital opercle compressed, not exceeding the apical margin of the 

 eighth dorsal segment, inferior angle produced into a distinct claw-like 

 point. Anterior femora equal to the mesonotum, pronotum and half 

 of the head in length, straight, distinctly carinate, basal flexure short 

 but distinct ; tibiae exceeding the femora by the length of the pronotum, 

 very slender, carinate; metatarsi slender, exceeding the remaining 

 tarsal joints in length, superior surface with a narrow and rathei- in- 

 distinct longitudinal sulcus. Median femora equal to the mesonotum 

 in length, slightly arcuate; tibiae exceeding the femora in length; 

 metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints, sulcus as hi 

 the anterior metatarsi. Posterior femora reaching to the middle of the 

 fifth abdominal segment, slender, very slightly arcuate; tibiae slightly 

 exceeding the femora; metatarsi subequal with the remaining tarsal 

 joints, no distinct sulcus above. 



General color drab, suffused on the apex of the abdomen with, and a 

 broad lateral streak on the head cream color; eyes mottled cinnamon 

 and umber; postocular streak on head and pronotum hair-brown; 

 limbs drab, more or less distinctly annulate with broad bands of dull 

 brownish, some of the pale annuli wood-brown. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jline, 



Measurements. 



Total length, 96 mm. 



Length of head, 4.3 " 



Length of pronotmn, 3.3 " 



Length of meson otiim, 24.3 " 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 15.5 " 



Length of median segment, 7 " 



Length of abdomen, 49 " 



Length of anterior femora, 28.5 " 



Length of anterior tibise, 33.5 " 



Length of median femora, 24.5 " 



Length of posterior femora 29.5 " 



Genus PARABACILLTJS Caudell. 



1903. Porabacillus Caudell, Proc. U. 8. Nat. Miis., XXVI, p. 865. 

 Type. — Bacillus coloradus Scudder. 



Parabacillus palmeri (Caudell). 



1902. Bacillus palmeri Caudell, Ent. News., XIII, p. 274. [Durango, 

 Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. July 22 and August 16, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 Four females. 



Family ACRIDID.^. 



Subfamily ACRIDIN^. 



Genus ACHURUM Saussure. 



1861. Achurum Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, 

 p. 313. 



Type. — Truxalis sumichrasti Saussure. 



Achurum sumichrasti (Saussure). 



1861. Tr[uxalis] Sumichrasti Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e 

 ser., XIII, p. 313. [Temperate Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 20 and September 18, 1903. (Mc- 

 Clendon.) Two females. 



Genus SYRBULA St&l. 

 1873. Syrbula Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 91, 102. 

 Included Oxycoryphus montezuma Saussure and Syi-bula leucoccrca 

 Stal. 



Syrbula pacifica Bruner. 



1904. Syrbula pacifica Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 44. [Tepic] 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 



Male and female. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Syrbula eslavae Rehn. 



1900. Syrbula eslavce Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 90. [Eslava, 

 D. F., Mexico.] 



La Joya, San Lids Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 



male, one immature female. 



Genus MACH.ff;ROCERA Saussure. 



1859. Machcerocera Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XI, 

 p. 391. 

 Type. — M. mexicana Saussure. 



Machaerocera mexicana Saussure. 



1859. Miacharocera] mexicana Saussure, Revaie et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e 

 ser., XI, p. 391. ["Mexico calida."] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 26, 28 and 30, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) 

 Two males and one female. 



A study of twenty-two specimens of this species from Tamaulipas, 

 Vera Cruz and Morelos furnishes no constant diagnostic character 

 for separating the Vera Cruz form as Thomas's sumichasti, as has been 

 done by Bruner.^ A pair of this species, labelled in Saussm-e's hand- 

 writing and presented by him, the male from "Mexique; Sumi- 

 chrast," and the female "Orizaba, reg. temp. Sumichrast," agree with 

 the rather large series studied. As the latter specimens are authori- 

 tatively determined and agree with specimens from Jalapa as well as 

 Alta Mira, I feel justified in considering them all one species. 



Maohaerocera pacifica Bruner. 



1904. Machcerocera pacifica Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 51. 

 [Tepic, on the Pacific slope, not far from San Bias.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24, September 14 and 18, 1903. 

 (McClendon.) Five males. 



A fairly well-marked species, distinguished by the slender posterior 

 femora and rather hea\der antennae. 



Genus AMBLYTROPIDIA sai. 

 1873. Amhlytropidia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 93, 107. 

 Type. — A. ferruginosa Stal. 



Amblytropidia ingenita Bruner. 



1904. Amblytropidia ingenita Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 67. 

 [Orizaba; Chilpancingo, Guerrero; Cuernavaca, Morelos.] 



Cuernavaca, Morelos. September, 1900. (Barrett.) One female. 

 This individual is rather larger than Bruner's maximum measure- 

 ments. 



^Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 51. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Amblytropidia elongata Bruner. 



1904. Amblytropidia elongata Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 68. 

 [Tepic, Jalisco.] 



Tuxpan, Jalisco. September 4, 1903. (McClendon.) One female. 

 The following key based on the female will serve to separate several 

 species studied: 



A. — Fastigium broad; eye ovoid; disk of the pronotum with the 

 greatest width about two- thirds the length ; posterior margin 

 of the pronotum obtuse-angulate ; lateral lobes of the prono- 

 tum higher than long. 

 B. — Form heavy; fastigium rather blunt; face somewhat 

 rounded ; posterior femora heavy, the slender distal portion 

 less than one-third the total length, 



occidentalis (Saussiu-e). 

 BB. — Form rather slender; fastigium acute; face distinctly angu- 

 late ; posterior femora with the slender apical portion more 

 than one-third the total length, . . mysteca (Saussure), 

 A A. — Fastigium rather narrow; eye elongate-ovoid; disk of the pro- 

 notum with the greatest width but slightly more than half 

 the length; posterior margin very broadly obtuse-angulate; 

 lateral lobes longer than high, .... ingenita Bruner. 



Genus ORPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 



1S94. Orphulella Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Miis. Zool. Anat. Comp., IX, No. 184, 

 p. 10. 



Based on 0. punctata (DeGeer), intricata (Stal), gracilis and elegans 

 Giglio-Tos, of which the first may be justly considered the type. 



Orphulella tepaneca (Saussure). 



1861. St[enoboth]r[us] tepanecus Saussure, Revue et Maeasin de Zooloeie 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 319. [Mexico.] ' 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 24 and 25, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) 

 Two females. 



Genus DICHROMORPHA Morse. 

 1896. Dichromorpha Morse, Psyche, VII, pp. 326, 383. 

 Type. — D. viridis (Scudder). 



Dichromorplia viridis (Scudder). 



1862. C[hloealtis] viridis Scudder, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist., VII p. 455 

 [Connecticut.] ' 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 6, 24, September 14 and 18, 1904. 

 (McClendon.) Sixteen males, thirteen females. 



These specimens are not typical viridis, and more material and study 

 may show that they represent another form. The tegmina and wings 

 reach to, or almost to, the tip of the abdomen in all the females, while 

 the males have those members considerably exceeding the apex of the 




IDOL J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 519 



abdomen. A number of other characters exhibit more or less apparent 

 differences, such as the shape of the eye and the vertex, the more gib- 

 bous anterior and median femora of the male, and the longer posterior 

 limbs. 



Genus BOOPEDON Thomas. 

 1S70. Boopedon Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. S3. 

 Included B. nigrum Thomas { = Gryllus nuhilus Say) and B. flavo- 

 fasciatum Thomas. 



Boopedon nubilum (Say). 



1825. GfrijJlus] nuhilus Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., IV, p. 308. [Arkan- 

 sa . near the base of the Rocky Mountains"; probably referring 



to the country at the exit of the Arkansas River from the mountauis.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 



Two males. 



These individuals are both of the black type of coloration, and in 

 one the pregenicular annuli of the posterior femora are absent. 



Boopedon hoagi n. sp. 

 Type: d^ ; La Joya, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. August 10, 1903. 



(M. E. Hoag.) 



Allied to B. nubilum, but differing in the smaller head and the longer 

 and more distinctly carinate pronotum, the metazona of which is 

 strongly punctate. 



Size medium (equal to the male of nubilum); form moderately 

 elongate, subbrachypterous, as is usual in the genus. Head of medium 

 size, face moderately declivent, occiput rounded, hardly elevated above 

 the pronotum, no distinct median carina present but with an exceed- 

 ingly faint one on the fastigium; fastigium considerably broader than 

 long, anteriorly obtuse-angulate, not excavated, margins very slightly 

 elevated ; lateral f oveol® linear, slightly marked ; interspace between 

 the eyes hardly narrower than the fastigium; eye subovate, anteriorly 

 somewhat truncate, slightly longer than the infra-ocular portion of 

 the geme; frontal costa moderately broad, subequal, not quite reach- 

 ing the clypeus, slightly excavated at the ocellus; antennae about 

 equal to the tegmina in length, somewhat depressed in the apical half, 

 apex acute. Pronotum with the disk subequal in width, prozona and 

 metazona subequal in length; anterior margin subtruncate, posterior 

 margin obtuse-angulate ; median carina very distinct, moderately high, 

 lateral angles sharp but not truly carinate; metazona strongly punc- 

 tate ; lateral lobes higher than long, the inferior margin obtuse-angu- 

 late. Tegmina slightly shorter than the abdomen; greatest width 

 one-third the distance from the base, costal expansion very large; 




520 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



apex rounded. Wings eciiial to the tegmina in length. Abdomen with 

 the apex not elevated; siibgenital plate moderately acuminate; supra- 

 anal plate triangular, somewhat convex and with a slight median longi- 

 tudinal depression; cerci simple, styliform, apex rather blunt. Ante- 

 rior and median limbs slender for the general size. Posterior femora 

 robust, inflated basally, distal fourth subequal, scalariform markings 

 obtuse; posterior tibiae slightly shorter than the femora. 



General color blackish, a faint line from the superior margin of the 

 eye, a pregenicular annulus on the posterior femora and a proximal 

 annulus on the posterior tibiae dull ochraccous ; distal half of the pos- 

 terior tibiae flesh-colored, the spines blackish apically; anterior and 

 median limbs brownish sprinkled with black spots; antennae flesh on 

 the basal third, blackish bej^ond. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 20.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum. 5.7 " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 3.2 " 



Length of tegmina, 1L2 '' 



Length of posterior femora, 15.5 " 



The type and an inmiature topotypic male are the only specimens 

 examined. I have dedicated this species to the collector, the well- 

 known entomologist, Mr. M. E. Hoag. 



Boopedon gracile n. sp. 



Type: d ; Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 25, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) 

 Quite distinct from any of the previously known species of the genus, 

 and easily recognized by the slender form, fully developed tegmina 

 and wings, and distuict carinae of the fastigium and pronotum. 



Size medium ; form slender. Head of moderate size ; occiput slightly 

 flattened, but elevated somewhat above the pronotum; fastigium 

 slightly broader than long, anteriorly rectangulate, shallowly but dis- 

 tinctly excavated, a disthict and sharp median carina present, margins 

 as distinct as the median carina; inters})ace between the eyes about 

 equal to the width of the fastigium; frontal costa rather broad, slightly 

 constricted below the ocellus, reaching the clypeus, slightly excavated 

 at and for a slight distance below the ocellus; eye ovate, subtruncate 

 anteriorly, longer than the infra-ocular portion of the genae; antennae 

 slightly more than half as long again as the head and pronotum. 

 Pronotum rather narrow, disk about half as long again as the greatest 

 (posterior) width; anterior margin rotundato-truncate, posterior 

 margin obtuse-angulate and with the apex rounded ; metazona slightly 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



longer than the prozona; median carina very distinct, sharp; lateral 

 carinse distinct anteriorly, rounded on the metazona, which latter is 

 very closely punctate; lateral lobes higher than broad, infe ' ^r niargin 

 obtuse-angulate, rounded posteriorly. Tegmina considerably exceed- 

 ing the apex of the abdomen and but very slightly short( r than the 

 tips of the posterior femora, subequal in width, the costal field mod- 

 erately expanded; apex obliquely rotundato-truncate. Wings equal 

 to the tegmina in length. Abdomen not recurved apically. Posterior 

 femora slender (for the genus), tapering through the entire length; 

 posterior tibiae slightly shorter than the femora. 



General color bistre; the top of the head, disk of the pronotum and 

 anal field of the tegmina broccoli-brown; lateral lobes of the prozona 

 and the gense shining blackish; face and antennae wood-brown, the 

 latter infuscated in the apical half. Pronotum with the lateral carinae 

 marked anteriorly with buff. Anterior limbs pale cinnamon. Pos- 

 terior femora blackish externally and inferiorly, except for a pregenicu- 

 lar annulus of ochraceous, superior and internal faces ochraceous with 

 four blackish bars, the two proximal ones of which do not join the black- 

 ish external face, their distribution being, one genicular, one post- 

 median, one pre median and the other basal; posterior tibiae blackish 

 proximally with a broad dull ochraceous annulus, followed by a black- 

 ish annulus, the remainder dull Isabella color suffused with blackish, the 

 spines all blackish apically ; tarsi ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body 22 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 3 



Length of tegmina, 18.7 



Length of posterior femora 16 " 



The type is the only specimen of the species examined. 



Genua PLECTROTETTIX McNeill. 

 1897. Plectrotettix McNeill, Psyche, VIII, p. 71. 



Proposed to replace Plectrophorus McNeill (preoccupied) and includ- 

 ing P. viatorius (Saussure) and P. gregarms (Saussure). 



Plectrotettix viatorius (Saussure). 



1861. St[enobothrus] viatorius Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 317. ["In tota Mexico occurrunt et gregibus copiosus 

 campis damnuna inferrunt."] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. June 28, July 17 and September 18, 1903. 

 (McClendon.) Four males, six females. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUlO, 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon). One male. 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 7, 1902. (C. H. T. Townsend.) Four 

 males, five females. 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) Two 

 females. 



Alta ^lira, Tamaulipas. June 24, 1902. (M. E. Hoag.) One male. 



Genus AULOCAEA Scudder. 

 1 76. Aulocara Scudder, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., II, p. 266. 

 Type. — A. coeruleipes Scudder = A. eUiotti (Thomas). 



Aulocara elliotti (Thomas). 



1870. S[tauronotus] EUiotti Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 

 82. [Eastern Colorado.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 

 One female. 



Subfamily CEDIPODIN.E. 

 Genus ARPHIA StAl. 

 1873. Arphia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum. I, pp. 11.3, 119. 

 Included A. sulphurea (Fabricius) and A. sanguinnria Stal, of which 

 the former may be considered the type. 



Arphia simplex Scudder. 



1875. Arphia simplex Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 514. 

 [Dallas, Texas.] 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 male, two females. 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 24 and 25, 1903 (M. E. Hoag.) Four 

 males. 



Victoria, Tamaulipas. January 14 or 15, 1903. (S. N. Rhoads.) 

 Two males. 



The male specimens are slightly smaller than several Texan repre- 

 sentatives examined, but their measurements are about equal to those 

 given by Scudder. The females, however, have the tegmina distinctly 

 shorter than Texan individuals, but otherwise appear to fully represent 

 this species. 

 Arphia truculenta n. sp. 



Type: o" ; Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. September 18, 1903. 

 (McClendon.) 



Allied to A. nietana Saussure,^ but differing in the slenderer pos- 

 terior femora, the broader and less sulcate frontal costa, and the more 

 acute posterior process of the pronotum, 



* Comparisons made with specimens of nietana from Eslava, D. F. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Size medium; form robust. Head with the vertex subhorizontal ; 

 scutehum of the vertex as broad as long, not appreciably excavated 

 except for the distinct transverse depression, rugulose, median carina 

 continued posteriorly on to the occiput, lateral carince of the scutellum 

 low, but distinct; lateral foveolse subc[uadrate, slightly excavated; 

 frontal costa broad at and below the ocellus, slightly constricted below 

 the latter, superiorly contracted and with an mdistinct median carina, 

 broadly sulcate at and for quite a distance below the ocellus; eye sub- 

 ovate, equal in length to the infraocular portion of the gena3; anternse 

 of medium length, slender basally, apically somewhat expanded and 

 depressed. Pronotum with the disk of the prozona rather inflated, 

 that of the metazona depressed; median carina distinct, but not high, 

 subequal in height; anterior margin very obtusely angulate, posterior 

 margin rectangulate with the angle rounded and the remainder of the 

 margin rather sinuate; surface of the prozona rugose, of the metazona 

 longitudinally verrucose; lateral lobes deeper than wide, subequal in 

 breadth, inferior margin roundeel with the angles not pronounced. 

 Interval between the metasternal lobes slightly longer than broad. 

 Tegmina exceeding the posterior femora by about one-fifth their total 

 length, rather broad, apex obliquely truncate; dilation of the costal 

 margin basal and very pronounced ; intercalary vein nearer the ulnar 

 vein proximally, nearer the meelian vein distally. Wings wdth the 

 apex slightly falcate. Posterior femora rather slender (for the genus), 

 the apical half tapering without any curve; posterior tibia; slightly 

 shorter than the femora. 



General color w^ood-brown strongly maculate and closely punctulate 

 with bistre. Head with the portion posterior to and below the eye 

 blackish; antennae blackish apically; eyes Prout's brown. Pronotum 

 with the lateral lobes blackish. Pleura blackish. Tegmina very dis- 

 tinctly and closely punctulate with the overlying shade except the 

 axillary field which is unicolor. Wings with the disk orange-chrome; 

 fuscous band, which is very much circumscribed, limited to little more 

 than the apical fourth of the wing and failing to reach the posterior 

 margin, blackish in color, the tip of the same color and separated by 

 a small subhyaline area from the band itself; ulnar taenia broad, sub- 

 equal and solid in color, reaching more than two-thirds the way to the 

 base of the wdng; costal margin colored as on the disk. Posterior 

 femora externally with inelications of a preapical annulus; genicular 

 region blackish; internal face blackish with tw^o transverse dull yel- 

 lowish bands. Posterior tibiae dull cinnamon; spines tipped with 

 black. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



Measu7'e7nents. 



Length of body, 22.2 mm. 



Length of pronotiim 6 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 4 " 



Length of tegmina 23 " 



Greatest width of tegmina 4.5 " 



Length of wings, 22.2 " 



Length of posterior femora, 16.5 " 



Three males of this species have been examined, all from Guadala- 

 jara. They agree perfectly in structure, but exhibit some diversity 

 in coloration. The black on the lateral lobes of the type is not so 

 distinct in the other specimens, and the general features of the color 

 pattern more subdued in both of them. 



Genus ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder. 

 1875. Encoptolophus Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 478. 

 Type. — G^dipoda sordida Burmeister. 



Encoptolophus costalis (Scudder). 



1862. CE[dipoda] costalis Scudder, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 473. 



[Texas.] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 24, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One female. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) Three males, 

 three females. 



Juanacatlan, Jalisco. July 22, 1903. (McClendon.) One female. 



This series is quite uniform structurall}^, and such color differences 

 as exist are very slight. The Alta Mira specimen has a more reddish 

 cast when compared with Jalisco specimens of the same sex, but this 

 coloration is found in the Jalisco males. 



Encoptolophus parvus Scudder. 



1875. Encoptolophus parvus Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, 

 p. 480. [Dallas, Texas.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 8 and 20, 1 903. (McClendon.) One 

 male, one female. 



Genus HIPPISCUS Saussure. 



1861. Hippiscus Saussure, Revue et Maeasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII. 

 p. 398. 



Type. — CEdi-poda {Hippiscus) ocelote Saussure. 



Hippiscus ocelote Saussure. 



1861. (E[dipoda] (Hippiscus) ocelote Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoolo- 

 gie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 398. [Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 



Eight males and eight females. 



Saussure has recorded this species from Cordova and Guanajuato. 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Hippiscus zapotecus Saussure. 



1884. X[anthippus] zapotecus Saussure, Prodr. CEdipod., p. 91. [" Agei 

 mexicanus."] 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 17, 1903. (McCIendon.) One female. 



Genus LEPRUS Saussure. 



1861. Leprus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, p. 398. 

 Type. — CEclipoda (Leprus) elephas Saussure. 



Leprus elephas Saussure. 



1861 (E[dipoda] (Leprus) elephas Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 398. [Mexico.] 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 male, three females. 



These specimens exhibit considerable variation in the extent of the 

 inflation of the prozona and in the pattern and intensity of the colora- 

 tion. . 



Genus TROPIDOLOPHUS Thomas. 



1873. Tropidolophus Thomas, Synopsis Acrididie N. Amer., p. 138. 

 Type. — Tropidolophus formosus (Say). 



Tropidoloplius formosus (Say). 



1825 Griillus formosus Sav, American Entomology, II, PI. 34 text page 

 four (unnumbered). [Colorado: "About an hundred and fifty miles 

 from the mountains, on the banks of the Arkansaw river. ] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 



One female. 



Genus SPHARAGEMON Scudder. 

 1875. Spharagemon Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 467. 

 Type. — Gryllus ceqiialis Say. 



Spharagemon cristatum Scudder. 



1S75. Spharagemon cristatum Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, 

 p. 470. [Dallas and Waco, Texas.] 

 La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) Two 

 adult males, one immature individual. 



These specimens are considerably smaller than Scudder's measure- 

 ments, but otherwise agree very well with this species. 



Genus LACTISTA Saussure. 

 1884. Lactista Saussure, Prodr. CEdipod., p. 142. 

 Included L. gibhosus, punctatus, pulchripennis and pelkpidus, cf 

 which punctatus may be considered the type. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Lactista punctatus (Stai). 



1873. 0[E(Jipocla] pnudata Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 130. [^lex- 

 ico.] 



Alta Mira, Tamaiilipas. June 24, 25 and 30, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) 

 Three males and one female. 



The female is of imusually large size, but otherwise these specimens 

 agree very well with Presidio, Vera Cruz, indi\'iduals. 



Genus TOMONOTUS Saussure. 



1861. Tomonolus Saussuro, Re\iie et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, 

 p. 320. 



Included T. zimmermanni , mexicanus, nietanus and otomitus, of 

 which mexicanus is the only one uneliminated, and it consequently is 

 the type of the genus. 



Tomonotus mexicanus Saussure. 



1861. Tom[onotuii\ mexicanus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 321. [Temperate Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. July 17, August 24 and 29, September 14 

 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) Twenty-six males and twenty-five 

 females. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) One female. 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 7, 1902. (Townsend.) Two males. 



This large series is extremely interesting and shows considerable 

 variation in the size of the male.-^ 



Tomonotus orizabae Saussure. 



1861. CE[dipoda] mexicana Saussure. Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 



XIII, p. 397. [Mexico.] 

 188-4. T[oynonotus\ Orizaba Saussure, Prodrom. (Edipod., p. 98. [Texas; 



Mexico; Guatemala.] 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 7, 1902. (Townsend.) Three males, two 

 females. 



Inseparable from a specimen from Uruapan, Michoacan. 



Tomonotus azteCUS (Saussure). 



1861. CE[dipoda] azteca Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XIII, p. 397. [Mexico.] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 25, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) Two males. 

 Victoria, Tamaulipas. January 14 or 15, 1903. (S. N. Rhoads.) 

 One female. 



' The specimens recorded by the writer from Mazatlan as Lactista gibhosuf 

 {Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXIX, p. 10) are a species of Tomonotus, and in all 

 probaliility T. mexicanus. The individuals there recorded had been dried from 

 alcohol and many characters exliiliited by them are misleading. The receipt of 

 a specimen of true L. gibbosus from California (Claremont: C. F. Baker) caused 

 me to make a second studv with the above results. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



The males are inseparable from an individual of that sex from Cuer- 

 navaca, Morelos. 



Genus MESTOBREGMA Scudder. 



1876. Mestobregma Scudder, Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geograph. Surv. Terr., 

 II, p. 264. 

 Type. — (Edipoda plattei Thomas. 



Mestobregma mexicanum (Saussure). 



1884. Ps[inidia] mexicana Saussure, Prodr. CEdipod., p. 164. [''Ager mex- 

 icanus."] 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 17, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 

 La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 male, one female. 



The female individual has the metazona dull green and the anal field 

 of the tegmina margined with rosaceous. 



Genus TRIMEROTROPIS Stll. 

 1873. Trimerotropis Stal, Recensio Orthopt., I, p. 118, 134. 

 Included T. placida Stal { = ocliraceipcnnis Blanch.) and T, maritima 

 (Harris), of which the latter may be considered the type. 



Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder." 



1876. Trimerotropis rinculata Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 XVIII, p. 270. [Guadalupe Island, off Lower California; San Diego, 

 Cal.; Mexico.] 

 La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) Two 

 males, three females. 



San Luis Potosi, State of San Luis Potosi. August 5, 1903. (M. E. 

 Hoag.) Five males, three females. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24 and 28, September 14, 18 and 

 22, 1903. (McClendon.) Three males, seven females. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) Three males. 



Genus HADROTETTIX Scudder. 



1876. Hadrotettix Scudder, Rep. Chief Engineers, 1876, Pt. 3, p. 511. 



Type. — Gryllus fasciatus Say. 



Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say). 



1825. Gryllus trifasciatus Say, Amer. Ent., II, PI. 34, page seven of text 

 (unnumbered). ["In Arkansaw, at the distance of about three hundred 

 miles from the Rocky Mountains."] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 



« The specimens previously recorded by me as T. fascicula {Trans. Amer. Ent. 

 Soc, XXVII, p. 227, and XXIX, p. 11) prove to belong to this common species 

 of the western United States. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



One male, one female, one nymph. This record extends the range of 

 the species south of the Mexican boundary line. 



Genus HELIASTUS Saussure. 

 1884. Heliaslus Saussure, Prodr. ffidipod., p. 212. 

 Included H. sumichrasti, venezuelce, aztecus and ohesus, of which the 

 first may be considered the type. 



Heliastus sumichrasti (Saussure). 



1861. (E[dipoda\ Sumichrasti Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 324. ["Mexico calida."] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 28' 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One fe- 

 male. 



This individual fully agrees with two authentic specimens from 

 Ruatan Island, Honduras, and Chilpancingo, Guerrero, received from 

 Dr. Saussure. 



Heliastus aztecus Saussure. 



1884. H[cJiastus] aztecus Saussure, Prodr. Gildipod., p. 214. ["Ager mexi- 

 canus septentrionalior.'"] 



Victoria, Tamaulipas. January 14 or 15, 1903. (S. N. Rhoads.) 

 One female. 



Genu- BRACHYSTOLA Scud<ler. 



1876. Brachystola Scudder, Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geograph. Surv. Terr., 

 II, p. 267. 



Type. — Brachypeplus virescens Charpentier. 



Brachystola magna Girard. 



1854. Brachi/peplus viagnus Girard, Explor. Red River Louisiana, p. 231, 

 Zoology, Pi. XV, figs. 'l-4. [Northern Texas.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 

 Six females, two nymphs. 



Subfamily PYRGOMORPHIX-E. 



Genus SPHENARIUM Charpentier. 

 1845. Sphenarium Charpentier, Orthopt. Dcscr. et Depict., tab. 31. 

 Type. — S. purpurascens Charpentier. 



Sphenarium borrei Bolivar. 



1884. Sphenarium Borrei Bolivar, Monograf. Pirgomorfinos, p. 99. [Guan- 

 ajuato.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 One male, five rather immature females. 



The male individual is rather strikingly colored, having the genicular 

 regions of the posterior femora and the antennce blackish, and the 

 posterior and inferior margins of the pronotum purplish. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



CALAMACRIS- n. gen. 



Allied to Orthacris Bolivar,* but differing in the more elongate form, 

 the more prominent fastigium, the presence of tegmina and the com- 

 pressed abdomen. In general appearance it somewhat approaches 

 Dyscolorhinus Saussure^ from Madagascar, but it is separated by a 

 number of characters. 



Form elongate, moderately compressed. Head with the fastigium 

 strongly produced ; eyes elongate-elliptical ; antennae moderately elon- 

 gate, depressed. Pronotum cylindrical. Prosternum erect, conoid, 

 blunt. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly narrower 

 than long, enlarged anteriorly. Tegmina very short, simple. Abdomen 

 distinctly compressed, carinate above. Cerci simple, tapering. Sub- 

 genital plate moderately produced, compressed and keelec' above 

 apically. Anterior and median limbs rather short; posterior limbs 

 elongate, femora tapering, tibise with a distinct apical spine on each 

 margin. 

 Calamacris clendoni n. sp. 



Types: cJ* and 9. Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. August 25 (9) 

 and September 18 (rj), 1903. (J. F. McClendon.) Coll. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. 



6^ . Size rather small ; surface lineato-granulate. Head elongate ; fasti- 

 gium moderately broad, produced in front of the eyes a distance equal 

 to the length of one of them, apex rounded; eye ecjual to the tubercu- 

 lous postocular ridge; antennce subequal in width, apical segment 

 lanceolate, the entire length about equal to that of the head and pro- 

 notum. Pronotum with the median and lateral carinse represented by 

 imperfect ridges of granules ; anterior margin arcuate, posterior margin 

 with a deep median triangular sinuosity; lateral lobes nearly twice as 

 long as the apparent height, anterior^ angle obtuse, inferior margin 

 slightly sinuate, posterior angle rectangulate, but slightly produced 

 posteriorly. Mesonotum almost hidden under the pronotum. Meta- 

 notum simple and resembling an abdominal segment, but shorter. 

 Tegmina not reaching the apex of the metanotum, subequal in width, 

 about four times as long as wide, the apex rounded. Abdomen with 

 a number of longitudinal granulose strigse on the dorsal surface. 

 Supraanal plate acute trigonal, slightly longer than the preceding 

 abdominal segment. Cerci about equal to the subgenital plate in 

 length, compressed, slightly incurved with a distinct apical crook. 



' KalafiT]^ stalk of corn, and uKpir^ grasshopper. 



* Monogr. Pirgomorfinos, p. 93. 



» Abhandl. Senckenb. Naturf. GefelL, XXI, p. G40, taf. XXXVIIl fig. 38. 



34 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF JunC, 



Subgenital plate strongly compressed apically, and bearing a very 

 distinct keel on the apical half of the upper siu'face ; apex when viewed 

 laterally blunt. Anterior and median limbs short, the femora stout. 

 Posterior femora not reaching the apex of the abdomen, slender. 



9 . Size medium; form much as in the ma^e but slenderer; svu'face 

 finely tuberculate. Head as in the male but proportionately shorter, 

 the interspace between the eyes broader, and the eyes themselves not 

 so elongate; antennse triqueteous, rather short, but slightly exceeding 

 the head in length. Pronotum as in the male, but the traces of the 

 lateral carinse slight, and the posterior emargination more pro- 

 nounced. Ovipositor jaws rather straight, blunt, compressed. Pos- 

 terior limbs weak, in fact hardly exceeding the male limbs in size, 

 the femora not exceeding the fifth abdominal segment in length. 



General color of male above clay color, finely and rather obscurely 

 sprinkled and washed with dull olive. Eyes walnut-brown; antennse 

 olivaceous at the bases, washed with sienna apically. Under surface 

 buffy. 



General color of female dull olive-greenish, probably more brilliant 

 in life. 



Measurements. r? ? 



Length of body, 19.5 mm. 39 mm. 



Length of antenna, 7 " 8 '' 



Length of pronotum, 3 " 4.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 2.2 '' 3.8 '' 



Length of tegmina, .... 1 " 2.5 " 



Length of abdomen, 1L5 " 23 '' 



Length of posterior femora 8.2 " 11 " 



This species is dedicated to Mr. J. F. McClendon, who secured the 

 type while making a very interesting collection of Orthoptera in Jalisco. 



A paratypic female, in addition to the tyi:e, has also been 

 examined. 



Subfamily LOCUSTIX.E. 

 Genus T.ENIOPODA Stil. 

 1873. Twniopoda Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 32, 51. 

 Included Monachidium superbum Stjil and T. ipicticornis Stal ( = 

 Rhomalca jncticornis Walker), of which the latter may be considered the 

 type. 



Taeniopoda burmeisteri Bolivar. 



1901. T[€cmopodn] Bin-))icisteri Bolivar, Boletin Soc. Espail. Hist. Nat., 

 1901, pp. 265, 266. [Mexico.] 



City of Mexico. November, 1901. (Mrs. Charles Schaffer.) One 

 female. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 5 and 10, September 14, 1903. 

 (McClendon.) Fifteen males, eleven females. 



Tuxpan, Jalisco. September 4, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 



Monterey, Nuevo Leon. One male. 



This species exhibits a great amount of color and coasiderable struc- 

 tural variation. The single individual from Tuxpan is almost solid 

 black in color, but no doubt represents this species, as extreme Guada- 

 lajara specimens have the pronotum and head, aside from the yellow 

 lines and borders which are faintly marked in the Tuxpan individual, 

 solid black. The City of Mexico specimen is much more robust than 

 any of the others examined, and may possibly prove to be a distinct 

 species. This form can readily be distinguished from picticornis 

 (Walker) by the orange instead of crimson antennae. This character 

 may be subject to variation, as most the other color characters of the 

 species are, but nevertheless it holds true in the above series, and in 

 eight specimens of picticornis. Good structural characters exist, 

 however, to separate the two forms. 

 Taeniopoda tamaulipensis n. sp. 



Type : 9 ; Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, Mexico. July 4, 1903. (M. E. 

 Hoag.) Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Allied to T. picticornis (Walker), but differing in the higher and 

 slightly more arcuate median carina of the pronotum, the greater 

 interspace between the eyes, and the different coloration 



Size large; form very robust. Head with the occiput inflated, 

 median carina obsolete; fastigium obtuse-angulate with distinct but 

 rather low lateral ridges; frontal costa narrow, strongly constricted 

 and evanescent inferiorly, distinctly sulcate; eye subreniform, some- 

 what prominent, slightly shorter than the infraocular portion of the 

 genee. Pronotum cristate, the prozona exceeding the metazona in 

 length; anterior margin obtuse-angulate, posterior margin acute- 

 angulate; prozona with the median carina arcuate and cut, but not 

 deeply, by three transverse sulci; metazona with the crest bent 

 arcuate and very slightly higher than that of the prozona; metazona 

 with distinct lateral angles but no carinoe ; lateral lobes slightly longer 

 than deep, the inferior margin slightly emarginate anteriorly; surface 

 rugoso-punctate. Tegmina equalling the apex of the abdomen, ante- 

 rior margin arcuate, apex somewhat constricted and very slightly 

 oblique truncate. Wings large, equally as long as the tegmina when 

 in repose; apex slightly falcate. Posterior femora almost equal to 

 the abdomen in length, rather slender. 



General color burnt-sienna, the median carina and posterior margin 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



of the7pronotiim as well as a median line on the head ferruginous, 

 median stripe of the pronotum bordered by clear black longitudinal 

 lines. Tegmina blackish, the veins olive-green. Wings with the disk 

 pale geranium-red, the apex and almost the entire margins blackish. 

 Abdomen above blackish with an interrupted median line of orange- 

 ochraceous. Beneath tawny-ochraceous, the lower part of the face 

 cream color, the abdomen with a longitudinal lateral line of black. 

 Limbs maculate and punctate with blackish as is usual in the genus, 

 the ground color of the anterior and median pair being graj'-brown. 

 the posterior ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 61.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 19.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 11 " 



Length of tegmina, 42 " 



Length of wing, 37 " 



Length of posterior femora, 27.5 " 



The type is the only specimen of this species seen. 



Taeniopoda auricornis (Walker). 



1870. Rhomalea auricornis Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., 

 Ill, p. 538. [Oaxaea; Vera Cruz.] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. July 4, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One male, 

 one female. 



After comparison with Walker's description, I have concluded that 

 these specimens represent his species. They are closely related 

 to T. centurio (Drury), but can be separated by the larger size, shorter 

 wings, which also have the apical third narrowed, the more produced 

 posterior margin of the pronotum, the greater space between the eyes, 

 and the slenderer posterior limbs. 



Genus CHROMACRIS Walker. 

 1870 Chromacris Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, p. 643. 



Included C. speciosa and colorata, of which the former ( = miles) was 

 represented by specimens and can be considered the type. 



Chromacris colorata (Serville). 



1839. Acridium coloratum Serville, Orthopteres, p. 674. [South Caro- 

 lina(?)]. 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 25, 26 and 28, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) 

 Three males, eight females. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



Genus LEPTYSMA St&l. 

 1873. Leptysma Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 42, 85. 

 Included Opsomala filiformis Serville, Truxalis ohscurus Thunberg 

 and Opsomala marginicoUis Serville, of which the latter may be con- 

 sidered the type. 



Leptysma marginicoUis (Serville). 



1839. Opsomala marginicoUis Serville, Orthopt^res, p. 591. [Xorth Amer- 

 ica.] 



Ojos del Diablo, Chihuahua. May 2, 1902. (C. H. T. Townsend.) 

 One female. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) One female. 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 9 and 25, 1903. (McClendon.) One 

 male, one female. 



Genus PROCTOLABITS Saussure. 



1859. Proctolabus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e s4r., XI, 

 p. 393. 



Type. — Ommatolampis mexicana Saussure. 



Proctolabus mexicanus (Saussure)?. 



1859. 0[mmatolampis] mexicana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e s^r., XI, p. 393. [Toluca, Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 One male, two females. 



This specimen belongs to this genus and probably to this species, 

 but several characters are at variance with those given in the 

 brief original description. The lower portion of the lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum as well as the meso- and metapleura of the male 

 are milky- white, while the lower as well as the upper face of the 

 posterior femora of the same sex bear a line of the same color. 

 Anterior and median limbs and external face of the posterior femora 

 of the male are solid French green. The females are almost uniform 

 olivaceous. 



Genus SCHISTOCERCA Stil. 

 1873. Schistocerca Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 64. 

 Included Acridium peregrinum, melanocercum, americanum, pall&ns, 

 hivittatum, flavo-fasciatum, and columbinum, of which americanum may 

 be considered the type. 



Schistocerca vaga (Scudder). 



1876. Acridium vagum Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XVIII, 

 p. 269. [Guadalupe, Island off Lower California; San Diego, California; 

 California.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. July 17 and September 14 and 18, 1903. 



(McClendon.) Two males, three females. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 8, 1902. (C. H. T. Townsend.) One 

 female. 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 male, two females. 



Schistocerca pyramidata Scudder. 



1899. Schistocerca pyramidata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci- 

 ences, XXXIV, pp. 443, 455. [Cuernavaca, iMexico.] 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 18, 1902. (C. H. T. Townsend.) One 

 male. 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 26, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 

 Schistocerca obscura (Fabricius). 



1798. [Gryllus] obscurus Fabricius, Ent. Syst. Suppl., p. 194. [North 

 America.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14, 1903. (McClendon.) Two 

 males. 



Schistocerca lineata Scudder. 



1899.^ Schistocerca lineata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 

 XXXIV, pp. 445, 465. [Barber county, Kansas; Texas; San Antonio, 

 Texas; Gulf Coast of Texas; Montelovez, Coahuila, Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and 18, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 Three females. 



Schistocerca americana (Drury). 



1770. Libell[uJa] Amcricanus Drury, Illust. Nat. Hist., I, pp. 128 and two 

 of index, PL LXIX, fig. 2. [Virginia; Antigua; New York; Madras in 

 the East Indies; Sierra Leon in Africa.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 15 and 24, 1903. (McClendon.) One 

 male, two females. 



Genus PH.ffi;DROTETTIX Scudder. 

 1897. Phcedrotettix Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 22. 

 Type. — P. augustipennis Scudder. 



Phaedrotettix augustipeunis Scudder. 



1897. Phcedrotettix augustipennis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, 

 p. 22, PI. II, fig. 7. [Mount Alvarez, San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Comacho, 

 Durango, Mexico; Corpus Christi Bay, Nueces county, Texas.] 



Victoria, Tamaulipas, January 14 or 15, 1903. (S. N. Rhoads.) 

 Two males, two females. 



One of the male specimens was kindly compared by Mr. A. N. Cau- 

 dell with typical specimens from San Luis Potosi, and he states that 

 they are probably identical, though some slight differences do exist. 

 The drawing of the genitalia given by Scudder is misleading, as one 

 receives the impression that the subgenital plate is longer in the Vic- 

 toria males, while Mr. Caudell, after comparison with a co-type, states 

 that the reverse is true. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



Genus SINALOA Scudder. 

 1S97. Sinaloa Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 40. 

 Type. — S. hehrensii Scudder. 



Sinaloa brevispinis n. sp. 



Types: d and ? ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico. January 14 or 15, 

 1903. (S. N. Rhoads.) Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Allied to ,S. hehrensii from Sinaloa. but differing in the shorter but 

 distinctly spiniform furcula, the subtruncate tips of the tegmina, and 

 in the different coloration. 



d^ .—Size rather small. Head with the occiput flattened ; interspace 

 between the eyes but little more than half the width of the frontal costa ; 

 fastigium strongly declivent, rather shallowly excavated; frontal costa 

 subequal, except above where it is slightly narrowed, moderately sul- 

 cate at and below the ocellus; eye ovate, moderately prominent. 

 Pronotum strongly rugoso-punctate, with the median carina present 

 as a rather coarse ridge, subobsolete between the sulci, the traces of 

 the lateral carina of the faintest character; transverse sulci distinct; 

 prozona almost twice as long as the metazona ; anterior margin arcuate, 

 posterior margin with a broad shallow median emargination; lateral 

 lobes slightly longer than high, the posterior and inferior margins 

 sinuous. Prosternal spine erect, retrorse, rather blunt; interspace be- 

 tween the mesosternal lobes longitudinal, almost twice as long as wide ; 

 metasternal lobes subattingent. Tegmina reaching to the apex of the 

 metanotum elongate-ovoid, apex rotundato-truncate, longitudinal 

 veins distinct. Abdomen faintly carinate above, the apex somewhat 

 upturned; furcula spiniform, compressed, attingent, as long as the 

 last dorsal segment; supraanal plate semi-ovate, apex obtuse-angu- 

 late, median ridge dividing centrally and sending forward two parallel 

 branches, lateral sections of the plate rather deeply excavated ; cerci 

 simple, about two and a half times as long as the basal width, moder- 

 ately tapering, the apical fourth with a slight emargination of the 

 posterior margin ; subgenital plate moderately produced, the apex mod- 

 erately acute but not elevated. Anterior and median limbs with the 

 femora considerably inflated; posterior femora robust, genicular 

 region rather large ; tibia with nine spines on the external margin. 



9 .—Size medium. Head with the interspace between the eyes but 

 little narrower than the frontal costa; frontal costa evenly but dis- 

 tinctly constricted inferiorly as well as above the ocellus ; eye elongate- 

 subovate, distinctly longer than the infraocular portion of the gense; 

 antenna slightly shorter than the head and pronotum, blunt. Pro- 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



notum as in the male but broader, more inflated and subtectate. Pro- 

 sternal spine very short, thick and blunt; interspace between the meso- 

 sternal lobes slightly longitudinal; metasternal lobes subattingent. 

 Posterior femora with ten or eleven spines on the external margin. 

 Ovipositor valves exserted. 



General color olive-green above, beneath dull yellowish. Head with 

 a line along the superior border of the eye and a postocular streak 

 greenish-yellow; eyes umber in the male, chestnut in the female; 

 antennae brownish with the basal portion dull yellow. Pronotum 

 with the postocular streak continued along the lateral margins of the 

 disk, rather broken in the female ; lateral lobes in the male bearing on 

 the inferior half a broken bar of dull yellow. Tegmina dull vinaceous. 

 Abdomen with the median portion of the dorsal surface bearing a 

 series of triangular patches of dull brownish. Limbs (except the 

 posterior tibiae) oil-green, more or less infuscate ; genicular region of the 

 posterior femora outlined with blackish; posterior tibiae basally ver- 

 diter-blue, apical portion and tarsi scarlet-vermilion. 



Measurements. ^ 



Length of body, 17.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.3 '^ 



Greatest width of pronotum 3.9 " 



Length of tegmina, 2.8 '' 



Greatest width of tegmina 1.5 '' 



Length of posterior femora 10.5 '' 



Three specimens (one male, two females) from the type locality have 

 been examined in addition to the types. Considerable variation exists 

 in the intensity of the coloration, the two paratypic females being uni- 

 form wood-brown with the femora conspicuously fasciate internally 

 with blackish. 



Genus AIDEMONA. Scudder.i« 



1897. Aidemona Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, XXXII, 

 pp. 198, 204. 



Type. — A. azteca (Saussure). 



Aidemona azteca (Saussure). 



1861. PIlatyphTjma] aztecum Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e 

 s6r., XIII, p. 161. [Temperate Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. July 17, August 23 and 29, 1903. (McClen- 

 don.) One male, tw^o females. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) Two males. 



'"This name is not available from Brunner, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. 

 Genova, XXXIII, p. 145. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



Zapotlan, Jalisco. July 1, 1902. (C. H. T. To^Tisend.) Two 

 males. 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



Genus HESPEROTETTIX Scudder. 



187.5. Hesperotettix Scudder, Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. Terr., II, 

 No. 3, p. 262. 



Type. — Hesperotettix viridis Scudder (not of Thomas) = Hespero- 

 tettix festivus Scudder. 



Hesperotettix meridionalis Scudder. 



1897. Hesperotettix meridionalis Scudder, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XX, p. 59. 

 [Guanajuato; Sierra Xola, Tamaulipas.] 



La Joya. San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



This specimen, while fully agreeing in measurements, structural 

 characters and major color characters, differs from Scudder's descrip- 

 tion in the more uniform greenish-yellow color of the head, and in the 

 presence of dull red pregenicular annuli on the anterior and median as 

 well as the posterior femora. 



Genus MELANOPLUS StM. 

 1873. Melanoplus Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 79. 

 Type, as designated by Scudder, M. femur-ruhrum (De Geer). 

 Melanoplus marculentus Scudder. 



1897. [Melanoplus] marculentus Scudder, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p. 6. [Montelovez, Coahuila; Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas; Sierra de San 

 Miguelito, and mountains twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi; San 

 Luis Potosi; Bledos, San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas; Aguas Caliente, 

 Mexico.'^] 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) Two 

 males. 



One of the above specimens is considerably larger than Scudder's 

 measurements, and also has the tegmina much longer than either 

 the typical measurements or the other specimen examined. 



Melanoplus spretis (Thomas). 



"1865. Acridium spretis Thomas, Trans. 111. St. Agric. Soc, V, p. 450." 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 17 and 24, September 14 and 18, 

 1903. (McClendon.) Five males, two females. 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



1875 Caloptenus atlanis Riley, Seventh Ann. Rep. Missouri State Ent., p. 

 169. [New Hampshire.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 27, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 



" As Scudder gives no localities in his preliminary paper, the above informa- 

 tion is taken from his later paper (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 141). 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



Melanoplus reflexus Scudder. 



1897. [Melanoplus] j-eflc.riis Scudder, Proc. Anier. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p. 9. [Cuidad del Maiz, San Luis Potosi.'-] 



La Joya, San Luis Potosi. August 10, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



This specimen fully agrees with Seudder's description of the single 

 female individual seen by him. 



Melanoplus palmeri Scudder. 



1S97. [Melanoplus] palmcri Scudder, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p. 23. [Fort Wingate, Bernalillo county. New Mexico; Fort Whipple, 

 Yavapai county, Arizona.^^] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 

 One male. 



This specimen extends the range of the species considerably to the 



south. 



Melanoplus corpulentus Scud<ler. 



1897. [Melanoplus] corpulentus Scudder, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p. 27. [Tlalpan, Mexico; hills about San Luis Potosi, Mexico; mountains 

 twelve leagues east of San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Sierra de San Miguelito, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; Zacatecas, Mexico; Sonora, Mexico; Silver City, 

 Grant county. New Mexico.'^] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14, 1903. (McClendon.) One 

 male. 



This specimen, when compared with individuals of this species from 

 the Federal District of Mexico, is seen to he larger and with slightly 

 longer (comparatively) tegmina and wings. 



Melanoplus differentialis Thomas. 



1871. Caloptenus differentialis Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871, 

 p. 149. [Jackson county, Illinois.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14, 19 and 22, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 Eight males, one female. 



Genus PCECILOTETTIX Scudder. 



1897. Poecilotettix Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, XXXII, 

 pp. 203, 206. 



Type. — Caloptenus {Hesperotettix) picticornis Thomas ( = Acridium 



pantheririum Walker). 



Poecilotettix pantherinus (Walker). 



1870. Acridium pantherinum Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., IV, 

 p. 623. [Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 1, 1903. (McClendon.) One 



male. 



" LocaUtv from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 222. 

 "Localities from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 231. 

 >< Localities from Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 314. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Genus OSMILIA StSl. 



1873. Osmilia Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 68. 



Included Acrydium flavo-lincatum De Geer, Gryllus violacevs Thun- 



berg, Gryllus rufipes Thimberg, Gryllus ohliquus Thiinberg and Acridnim 



wxwulosimi Stal, of which flavo-lineatum may be considered the type. 



Osmilia toltecum (Saussure). 



1861. A[cridiu77i] ioltecum Saussure, ReA'ue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XIII, p. 163. [Temperate Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24, September 18, 1903. (McClen- 

 don.) Two females. 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 28, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



Genus DACTYLOTUM Charpentier. 

 1845. Dadylotum Charpentier, C)rthopt. Descr. et Depicta, tab. 52. 

 Type. — D. bicolor Charpentier. 



Dactylotum variegatum (Scudder). 



1879. Pezotettix variegatum Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XX, 

 p. 75. [San Diego, California; Sonera; Fort Whipple and Buchanan, 

 and forty miles east of Tucson, Arizona.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 

 One female, two immature males. 

 Dactylotum histricum n. sp. 



Type: ? ; La Joya, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. August 10, 1903. 

 (M. E. Hoag.) 



Allied to D. variegatimi (Scudder), but differing in the slightly nar- 

 rower and more acuminate tegmina, the slenderer posterior femora, 

 the shorter metazona of the pronotum and the rather distinctive 

 coloration. 



Size rather large; form as usual in the genus. Head with the occi- 

 put hardly elevated above the pronotum, rounded ; interspace between 

 the eyes twice as wide as the inferior width of the frontal costa; fasti- 

 gium broad, very shall owly and broadly excavated; frontal costa 

 slightly constricted above, but broader than below the ocellus, greatest 

 width immediately above the ocellus, moderately sulcate throughout; 

 eyes elongate-ovate, truncate anteriorly, very slightly longer than the 

 infraocular portion of the gense; antennae equal to the head and pro- 

 notum in length, the extreme apex blunt and slightly depressed. 

 Pronotum slightly arched transversely and with a very noticeable trans- 

 verse convexity, as usual in the genus; transverse sulci strongly im- 

 pressed ; median carina absent on the prozona, finely marked on the 

 metazona, the latter only two-thirds the length of the prozona and 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Strongly punctate; anterior margin subtruncate with a very slight 

 median emargination. posterior margin arcuate, the apex subtruncate; 

 lateral lobes longer than deep, the lower margin distinctly obtuse- 

 angulate. Prosternal spine rather short, blunt, slightly retrorse; 

 interval between the mesosternal lobes broader than long; interval 

 between the metasternal lobes quadrate. Tegmina equal to the pro- 

 notum in length, slightly less than two-thirds as wide as long, subattin- 

 gent; apical portion subacute, the apex itself rounded. Posterior fem- 

 ora moderately slender, slightly more than four times as long as wide ; 

 posterior tibiae with seven or eight spines on the external margin. 



General color bluish-black, variegated with orange-vermilion, orange, 

 lemon-yellow and apple-green. Head ornamented with orange ver- 

 milion on the posterior inferior portion of the gena, an infraocular 

 blotch, a line along the clypeal margin of the face, and a crude semi- 

 circle margining the posterior superior borders of the eyes and the 

 interocular space. Pronotum with the usual median crescent and the 

 short anterior median bar orange-vermilion, fading along the posterior 

 median bar into orange, which color decorates the posterior margin of 

 the pronotum, very broadly on the lateral lobes, narrowly on the disk. 

 Tegmina reticulate with apple-green. Abdomen with the dorsal 

 segments posterior margined with lemon-yellowy developed on the 

 median line into a series of triangular blotches which are connected by 

 a narrow line of the same color, an obscure lateral series of lemon- 

 yellow dots are also noticeable; ventral segments dull lemon-yellow 

 with the bluish-black reduced to a series of lateral basal spots, and a 

 broad triangular basal spot on the subgenital plate. Prosternal spine 

 lemon-yellow; mesosternum and metasternum dirty luteous. Ante- 

 rior and median femora with a median or premedian blotch of orange- 

 vermilion. Posterior femora with three broken bars of lemon-yellow, 

 one basal, one premedian, the other median; external face with the 

 scalariform impressions outlined with yellowy posterior tibiae blackish- 

 blue, the spines black apically. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 31.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 5.7 " 



Length of tegmina, 7.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmina 4.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, . . 15.2 " 



Two female specimens examined. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



Genus PERIXERUS Gerstaecker. 

 1873. Perixerus Gerstaecker, Entom. Zeit. Stettin, XXXIV, p. 192. 



Type. — P. squami'penms Gerstaecker. 

 Perixerus variabilis n. pp. • 



Type: $ ; Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. September 18, 1903. 

 (J. F. McClendon.) Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Allied to P. Icevis Rehn,'^ but differing in the narrower interspace 

 between the mesosternal lobes and the y6ty different blue-gray and 

 yellow coloration. 



Size medium; form moderately slender; surface sparsely clothed 

 with long hairs. Head with the occiput moderately inflated, obscurely 

 punctate; interspace between the eyes rather broad, slightly wider 

 than the frontal costa; fastigium depressed, broad, blunt, with a broad 

 and shallow excavation; frontal costa subequal, not reaching the 

 clypeus, rather shallowly sulcate at and below the ocellus ; eye subreni- 

 form, longer than the subocular portion of the gense; antennse slightly 

 shorter than the head and pronotum. Pronotiim with the transverse 

 sulci moderately distinct; prozona about half again as long as the 

 metazona; anterior and posterior margins subtruncate; lateral lobes 

 slightly longer than high, the lower margin sinuate anteriorly; surface 

 rugoso-punctate, the metazona with the punctures finer. Prosternal 

 spine short, thick and blunt. Interval between the mesosternal lobes 

 cjuadrate ; interval between the metasternal lobes distinctly longitudi- 

 nal. Tegmina elongate-ovate, reaching to the apical margin of the 

 first abdominal segment, internal margins distant; apex bluntly 

 rounded; surface coriaceous-reticulate. Anterior and median limbs 

 moderately slender; posterior limbs rather slender, the imbrications 

 of the femora pronounced ; tibiffi with seven or eight (on one side) spines 

 on the external margin. 



General colors oil-green and lemon-yellow varied with verditer-blue. 

 Head bluish above, with a dull median triangular yellowish spot, and 

 a yellowish post-ocular streak which is bordered above and below with 

 blackish; lower part of face dull bluish and green, the gense greenish, 

 with the margins clear yellow and an obscure inferior bluish patch; 

 eyes chestnut; antennae bluish-black narrowly annulate with dull 

 bluish-green. Pronotum above blue with a distinct median line of 

 yellow, the posterior and inferior margins also narrowly edged with 

 dull yellow ; lateral lobes of the pronotum yellowish-green ; the trans- 

 verse sulci black except at the yellow median line. Tegmina glaucous 



15 Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 98. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlUie, 



green. Alxlomen above bluish, except for a median longitudinal line 

 which, with the inferior surface, is dull yellowish. Limbs dull yellowish- 

 green sprinkled with blackish ; posterior femora with the imbrications 

 distinctly outlined with black, genicular region with a crescent of black; 

 tibiae glaucous, the spines with their apical half l^lack. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 22.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5.5 " 



Greatest width of pronotum 5 " 



Length of tegmina 4.8 " 



Greatest width of tegmina 3 " 



Length of posterior femora 14.2 " 



The type is the only specimen examined. 



Family TETTIGONID^. 



Genus HOEMILIA Stdl. 



1873. Hormilia Stal, Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.-Acad. Forhandlingar, XXX, 

 No. 4, p. 41. 



Type. — Phaneroptera tolteca Saussure. 



Hormilia prasina Saussure and Pictet. 



1897. Hormilia prasina Saussure and Pictet, Biol. Cent-.Amer., Orth., I, 

 p. 319, tab. XV, fig. 14. [Mazatlan, Sinaloa; Guerrero.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 



This individual fully agrees with the original description, except 



that the posterior margin of the pronotum is centrally emarginate. 



Genus AKETH.ffi;A Stdl. 



1876. Areihcea Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handiliigar, Bd. 4, 

 No. 5, p. .55. 



Type. — Ephippitytha graciUpes Thomas. 



Arethaea gracilipes (Thomas). 



1870. E[phippitijtha] gracilipes Thomas, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, 

 p. 76. [Southern Colorado.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 

 Two adult males, two immature females. 



These specimens are badly shriveled and faded, having*loeen collected 



in spirits, but they apparently belong to this species. 



Arethsea carita Scudder. 



1902. Aretlma carita Scudder, Proc. Davenport Acad. Sciences, IX, p. .52, 

 PI. 4, fig. ,5. [Mesilla Park, New Mexico.] 



Casas Grandes, Chihuahua. September, 1902. (Dr. W. E. Hughes.) 



One female. 



This specimen fully agrees with Scudder's description and figure. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



Genus SCTJDDEEIA StM. 



1873. Scudderia Stal, Ofversigt ak K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 

 XXX, No. 4, p. 41. 



Type. — Phaneroptera curvicauda De Geer. 



Scudderia mexicana (Saussure). 



1S61 Phaneroptera mexicana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e ser., XIII, p. 129. [Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 24 and September 4, 1903. (McClen- 

 don.) One male, one female. 



Scudderia ungulata Scudder. 



1898 Scudderia ungulata Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 

 XXXIII, p. 280, fig. 6. [Tepic, Mexico.] 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14 and IS, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 Three males, one female. 



Genus STILPNOCHLORA StM. 



1873 StilpnochJora Stal, Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 

 XXX, No. 4, p. 40. 

 Type. — Phijlloptera margineUa Serville. 



Stilpnoclilora azteca (Saussure). 



1859. Ph[i/lloptera] azteca Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 Xi, p. 203. [Mexico (Cordova, etc.).] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. July 17 and August 2, 1903. (McClendon.) 

 Three females. 



Genus CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg. 



1815. Conocephalus Tliunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., V, pp 

 218, 271. 

 Included C. suhulatus, triops, lanccolalus, hemipterus, acuminaius, 

 nasutus, olbifrons, falx, cinereus, varius, virens, discolor, griseus, bilin- 

 eatus, inflatus, armatus, cornutvs, spinigerus, trifidiis, tricornis, 

 triceps, viridissimus, rugosus and elongatus. 



Conoceplialus obscurellus Redtenbacher. 



1891. Conocephalufi obscurellus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool. Bot. Gesell. 

 Wien, XLI, p. 397. [Cuernavaca, Mexico; Guatemala; Guita; Antilles; 

 Venezuela; Nicaragua; Cuba.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. (McClendon.) One female. 



Genus STIPATOR Rehn. 



1859. Orchesticus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XI, 

 p 201. (Not of Cabanis. 1851.) 

 ■ 1900. Stipator Rehn, Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc, XXVII, p. 90. 



Type. — 0. aviericanus Saussure. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Stipator grandis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, Mexico. June 27, 1903. (M. E. 

 Hoag.) Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



This new species is quite distinct from any of the previously known 

 species in the genus, and can readily be distinguished by its large size, 

 very long and powerful posterior limbs and comparatively short ovi- 

 positor. 



Size very large; form elongate-fusiform. Head with the fastigium 

 about as wide as the length of the eye, bluntly rounded, touching the 

 facial process; eye ovate, comparatively small and not prominent; 

 antennse slightly exceeding the body and ovipositor in length, basal 

 joint flattened inferiorly. Pronotum slightly expanding posteriorly, 

 decidedly prolonged; slightly flattened on the disk, but lateral angles 

 rounded; anterior margin truncate, posterior margin broadly rounded, 

 no carina present; lateral lobes longer than high, the posterior margin 

 slightly emarginate, the inferior margin oblique, the angles obtuse. 

 Prosternum with two suberect slender spines; mesosternum and 

 metasterniun acutely lobate. Tegmina or wings not apparent. 

 Abdomen moderately compressed, each segment with a slight 

 thickening of the posterior margin on the median line, on the 

 distal segments supplemented by additional like structures, which 

 are arranged in longitudinal series. Ovipositor slightly curved, 

 short, but slightly longer than the pronotum and not more than 

 half the length of the posterior femora, subequal in width ; the apex 

 very acute, with superior margin straight for a short distance; 

 subgenital plate subtruncate apically. Anterior cox» strongly spined ; 

 femora about equal to the pronotum in length, two or three spines on 

 the anterior margin, unarmed on the posterior margin; tibiiE slightly 

 longer than the femora, bearing three spines on the posterior superior 

 margin. Median coxse unarmed; femora slightly longer than the 

 anterior femora, margins unarmed except for the short paired spines on 

 the genicular lobes; tibia slightly longer than the femora, anterior 

 superior margin with two spines, posterior superior margin with four 

 spines, one of which is apical. Posterior femora ec^ual to the body in 

 length, strongly inflated l^asally, slender apically, internal inferior 

 margin spined except apically; tibise about equal to the femora, sub- 

 quadrate, the superior margins closely and evenly spined. 



General color prout's brown, marked on the dorsum with vandykc 

 brown and on the lower portion of the lateral lobes and the pleura with 

 wood-brown. Head with the facial portion and the gense suffused 

 with bistre, a faint postocular streak present; antennae narrowly annu- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



late with eerii-drab. Pronotum with the upper half of the lateral lobes 

 bistre; posterior margin of the lateral lobes narrowly blackish. Meso- 

 notum and metanotum with lateral blackish patches, more distinct 

 on the mesonotum. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 37 mm. 



Length of pronotum, . 12.5 " 



Greatest width of disk of pronotum, 7.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 37 " 



Length of ovipositor, 18 " 



A paratypic female has also been examined. 



Genus CEUTHOPHILUS Scudder. 

 1862. CeuthophUus Scudder, Boston Jour. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 4.33. 

 Included C. macidatus (Harr.), C. brevipes Scudd., C. lapidicola 

 (Burm.), C. uhleri Scudd., S. scahripes (Hald.), C. divergens, C. latens, 

 C. niger and C. calijornianus Scudd., C. stygius (Scudd.), C. agassizii 

 (Scudd.) and C. gracilipes (Hald.). The first of these, macidatus, may 

 be considered the type. 



Ceuthophilus macropus n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. September 14. 1903. 

 (Mcfclendon.) Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



This new species is provisionally placed in CeuthophUus, but it is 

 possibly distinct, as the median coxse are not spined. It does not 

 appear to be closely related to any of the previously known species,, 

 though running to occultus and discolor in Scudder's key of the genus,, 

 to which, however, it is not closely related. 



Size medium; form compressed, elongate-fusiform. Head short and 

 broad; occiput sloping downward and forward; eye rather small, sub- 

 trigonal ; antennae about twice as long as the body. Pronotum arched 

 transversely; anterior and posterior margins truncate; lateral lobes 

 slightly longer than high, inferior margin very broadly and slightly 

 arcuate, angles rounded. Mesonotum and metanotum subequal in 

 lateral depth, extending below the inferior margin of the lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum. Abdomen compressed, surface smooth. Ovipositor 

 slightly longer than the pronotum, straight, tapering evenly from the 

 base to one-third the length from the apex, subequal in the apical 

 third; apex obliquely truncate, the superior margin with a prominent 

 rounded emargination which gives the extreme apex an almost needle- 

 like character; internal valves bearing five prominent spines on their 

 inferior margins. Anterior coxse unarmed; femora about one-fifth 

 35 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



longer than the pronotum, somewhat compressed, anterior infeiior 

 margin with two distal spines, one large and one small, no genicular 

 spine present; tibiae about equal to the femora, unarmed above. 

 Median coxse unarmed ; femora about equal to the anterior femora in 

 length, slenderer, anterior inferior margin armed distally with three 

 or four spines, increasing in size toward the apex, posterior inferior 

 margin with ^several very small spines on the distal half, genicular 

 spine distinct; tibiae slightly longer than the femora, armed on the 

 anterior superior margin with two large and two small spines, posterior 

 margin armed with two or three spines. Posterior femora almost equal 

 to the body in length, moderately inflated, the length about three and 

 a half times the breadth, external inferior margin unarmed, internal 

 inferior margin supplied with a series of small depressed spines, no 

 genicular spine present; tibise straight, exceeding the femora by about 

 one-eighth the length of the latter, armed on the upper surface with 

 four pair of spurs, the smaller spines very uniform and rather stout, 

 median apical spurs equal to the metatarsus in length; second joint of 

 the tarsi about half the length of the metatarsus, third joint of the 

 tarsi slightly more than half the length of the second. 



General color cinnamon, suffused on the upper surface of the abdo- 

 men, thorax' and head and the entire anterior limbs except the tarsi 

 with liver brown; antennee cinnamon; posterior femora with the 

 inferior margins and two longitudinal bars on the external face 

 blackish-brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 13.S mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.2 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 4 



Length of posterior femora, 14.2 



Length of ovipositor, 6 



The type is the only specimen examined. 



Family GRYLLID^. 

 Genus GRYLLUS Linnaeus. 

 1758. Gryllus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Xth edit., p. 425. 

 Type. — Gryllus domesticus Linnaeus.^® 



Gryllus assimilis Fabricius. 



1775. [Gryllus] assimilis Fabricius, Sj-st. Ent., p. 2S0, [Jamaica.] 

 Guadalajara, Jalisco. August 21, September 14 and 18, 1903. 

 (McClendon.) Eleven males, six females. 



i« Vide Rehn, Canad. Entom., XXXIII, pp. 118-121. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



These specimens, though sHghtly smaller, agree very well with 

 individuals from Jalapa and Teocelo, Vera Cruz. 



Gryllus barretti Rehn. 



1901. Gryllus barretti Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXVII, p. 221. 

 [Cuernavaca, Morelos.] 



Tuxpan, Jalisco. September 4, 1903. (McClendon.) One female. 



This individual fully agrees with the type of barretti, and is interesting 

 as it demonstrates the fact that the species is brachj'pterous as well as 

 macropterous, the typical series being in the latter condition. 



Gryllus mexicanus Sausaure. 



1859. Gryllus mexicanus Saussure, Re\-ue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XI, p. 316. [Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 18, 1903. (McClendon.) One 



female. 



Zapotlanejo, Jalisco. July 31, 1903. (McClendon.) One male. 



Genua (ECANTHTIS Sendlle. 



1831. (Ecanthus Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 134. 



Included CE. italicus ( = pellucens Scopoli), CE. bipunctatus and (E. 

 niveus. Of these, the first may be selected as the type. 



CEcanthus niveus (De Geer). 



1773. Gryllus niveus De Geer, Mem. I'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 522. [Pennsyl- 

 vania.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 18, 1903. (McClendon.) Three 

 males, 



CEcantlius varicornis Walker. 



1869. (Ecanthus varicornis Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Suppl. Blatt. CoU. 

 Brit. Mus., p. 94. [Mexico.] 



Guadalajara, Jalisco. September 14, 1903. (McClendon.) One 

 female. 



This specimen does not fully agree with Saussure's figures and descrip- 

 tion in the Biologia Centrali- America" as the pronotum is not so elon- 

 gate, though this may be due to sex, as Saussure figured a male and 

 the individual in hand is the other sex. Walker's description is so 

 general that little can be made of it, but the Guadalajara specimen 

 fully agrees with it as well as the structure of the opposite sex and the 

 insufficiency of the diagnosis will allow. This species has been 

 recorded from as far north as Tepic. 



" Biol. Cent.-Amer., I, p. 254, tab. XII, figs. 24 and 25. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Genus THAMNOSCIRTTJS Saussure. 



1878. Thamnoscirtus Saussure, Melanges Orthopt^rologiques, VI, p. 630, 

 fig. XLVI, No. 1. 



Included Phylloscirtus cicindeloides and vittatus Gerstaecker, of 

 which the former may be considered the type. 

 Thamnoscirtus cseruleusln. sp. 



Types: c5^ and 9 ; Guadalajara, Jahsco, Mexico. September 16 (c5^) 

 and 18 (?), 1903. (McClendon.) Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Allied to T. cicindeloides, but differing in the very distinctive colora- 

 tion, the larger eyes, the more compressed pronotum and a number of 

 minor characters. No close relationship exists with vittatus Ger- 

 staecker and montanus Saussure, while vindicator Saussure can be 

 readily separated by the coloration. 



cJ^. — Size medium; appearance cicindeliform as is usual in the genus. 

 Head trigonal, depressed, interocular region flat; eye subelliptical, 

 prominent, in greatest length almost equal to the interocular width. 

 Pronotum deplanate, somewhat constricted mesially, anterior margin 

 truncate with a slight median emargination, posterior margin truncate ; 

 central portion of disk with a distinct longitudinal impressed line which 

 fails to reach either the anterior or posterior margin; lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum with the inferior margin broadly arcuate. Tegmina 

 slightly shorter than the abdomen; axillary veins straighter and less 

 curved than in cicindeloides. Anterior tibiae with the tympanum on 

 the anterior face small and elongate-elliptical. Posterior femora mod- 

 erately inflated, slightly shorter than the tegmina. (The male indi- 

 vidual has been somewhat crushed and many structural features have 

 been damaged or changed to such an extent as to preclude any mention 

 of them.) 



9 . — Size medium; form as in the male, but slenderer. Head as in 

 the male. Pronotum as in the male except that the posterior portion 

 is not slightly broader than the anterior as in the male, and the median 

 impressed line is less distinct. Tegmina arched, slightly exceeding the 

 apex of the abdomen, subcoriaceous, apex acute; lateral field of the 

 tegmina apically truncato-emarginate and with but three instead of 

 six principal veins as in cicindeloides. Wings with the apical section 

 caudate but not projecting beyond the tegmina. Ovipositor shorter 

 than the posterior femora, moderately arcuate, rather broad and sub- 

 equal in width ; superior margin of the apical section with an oblique 

 truncation, apex finely serrulate above and below. Posterior femora 

 about two-thirds as long as the tegmina. 



General color very deep metallic blue in the male, deep metallic 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



greenish in the female; eyes dull brown; interocular region with an 

 obscure transverse elliptical spot of brick red ; limbs orange-ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 10.5 mm. 8.1 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 1.9 " 2.2 



Greatest width of pronotum 2 " 2 



Length of tegmina, 6.2 " 6.5 



Greatest width of dorsal field of tegmina, . . 3.5 " 1.7 



Length of posterior femora, 5.2 " 5.6 



Length of o\apositor, 3.3 



The types are the only specimens which have been examined. 



Genus PAR(ECANTHUSISaussure. 



1859. Paroccanthus (laps. p. Paraecanthus) Saussure, Revue et Magasin de 

 Zoologie, 2e s6r., XI, p. 317. 



Type. — P. mexicanus Saussure. 



Paroecantlius mexicanus Saussure. 



1859. P[aroccanthus] mexicanus Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 

 2e s6r., XI, p. 317. [No locality given.] 



Alta Mira, Tamaulipas. June 25, 1903. (M. E. Hoag.) One 

 female. 



This species has been recorded from Tampico, Tamaulipas, to Teapa, 

 Tabasco. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July 



NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA: PELECYPODA. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Pelecypods described herein were nearly all received from Mr. 

 Y. Hh-ase, of Kyoto, Japan. Most of them are from Hirado, Hizen, 

 at the extreme west of Kyushu, where the wide-ranging species of 

 the central Indo-Pacific province rule, and the exclusively Japanese 

 faunal element is less conspicuous than farther north and east. That 

 many new forms are encountered even here but confirms the experi- 

 ence of other recent workers, that in all parts of the Indo-Pacific area 

 there has been great local differentiation. 



In these Proceedings, p. 6, I described a Conus from Ivikai-ga-shima 

 as C. dormitor. My attention has been called by several friends to 

 the prior use of this name for an Eocene species; and I would there- 

 fore call the Japanese form Conus comatosa. It is probably ancestral 

 to the recent C. sieholdi Rve. 

 Mactra carneopicta n. sp. PI. XXXIX, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell oval, the beaks shghtly in front of the middle ; moderately thin, 

 pure white inside; externally profusely painted with flesh-colored 

 rays on a whitish ground, covered with a very thin yellow cuticle 

 toward the margins. Anterior and posterior dorsal areas closely and 

 deeply radially sulcate, and the lower part of the anterior half is con- 

 centrically irregularly sulcate; the rest of the surface being smooth. 

 The palHal sinus is very short and semicircular, the muscle-impressions 

 and paUial line but faintly marked. The hinge is that of the typical 

 group of Mactra. Length 60, alt. 45, diam. 28.5 mm. 



Wakatsuuri, Etami. Type No. 86,294, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,281 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species resembles M. antiquata Spengl. somewhat, but is not 

 triangular and is white within. It is not unlike some forms of M. 

 stultorum in coloration. 



Spisula (Oxyperas) bernardi n. sp. PI. XXXIX, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



Shell long and narrow, the altitude contained about 1.8 times in 

 the length; somewhat triangular, compressed; moderately solid; the 

 beaks at the anterior two-fifths of the length. White under a closely 

 adherent drab and whitish cuticle, which is irregularly dappled with 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



purple-brown spots. Sculpture of coarse and irregular concentric 

 wrinkles and sulci, the umbonal region smooth. Interior of a peculiar 

 Isabella tint. Pallial sinus wide and extending to or a trifle beyond 

 the middle of the shell's length. :\Iuscle scars well impressed. Hinge 

 spisuloid, with the bearing faces of the lateral teeth vertically crenu- 

 late. 



Length 58, alt. 32.5, diam. 19 mm. 



Fukura, Awaji. Type No. 86,313, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,561 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Compared with S. aspersa Sowb.,^ this species differs in proportions, 

 being longer and narrower. A specimen of S. aspersa before me meas- 

 ures°length 53, alt. 33, diam. 18.5 mm., the altitude being therefore 

 contained about 1.6 times in the length. The beaks are correctly 

 stated by Reeve to be at the anterior third. The palhal sinus is much 

 longer than in S. bernardi, nearly three-fifths the length of the shell. 

 The lateral teeth are longer in *S'. bernardi. The external sculpture is 

 conspicuously unlike in the two species. It is named in honor of the 

 late M. Felix Bernard. 

 Cytherea crispata amica n. subsp. PI. XXXIX, 6gs. 10, 11. 



Shell shortly ovate, ventricose, rather thin, the beaks at about the 

 anterior third of its length. Pale buff, marked with three indistinct 

 diverging brown rays, the color confined chiefly to the lamellae, and 

 with some scattered spots, and narrow oblique stripes on each side of 

 the beaks. The beaks are rather full; the lunule cordate and defined 

 by sunken lines; no escutcheon is defined on the right valve, but a 

 depression marks it in the left. The immersed ligament is narrowly 

 lanceolate. The anterior end is rounded, the posterior subtruncate. 

 Sculpture of very numerous rounded radial riblets, wider than their 

 intervals, and undivided throughout. These are crossed by many thin 

 erect concentric lamellse. The upper side of each one is fluted, the 

 ridges corresponding to intervals of the radial riblets, while the lower 

 side is much more deeply fluted, a narrow buttress arising from each 

 radial riblet. The interior is white, the pallial sinus short and ascend- 

 ing, rounded at the end. Muscle impressions and pahial line are very 

 faintly indicated. The anterior and median cardinal teeth are simple 

 and rather slender in the right valve, the posterior tooth deeply bifid. 

 In the left valve the anterior cardinal is simple compressed and high, 

 the middle one wide and deeply bifid, the posterior slender and lamellar. 

 A curved ridge extends from the hinge-plate partly around the anterior 



1 Conch. Icon., Mactra, PI. 14, fig. 65. 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



adductor scar, anteriorly. The anterior margin is finely crenulated 

 from the beaks down, and along the basal margin, the posterior end 

 being without internal crenulation. 



Length 51, alt. 43, diam. 32 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Type No. 86,299, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,511 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a less ponderous species than either Cylherea puerpera or C. 

 reticulata, the radial riblets are more numerous and the concentric 

 lamellse thinner and higher than in either, and quite different in sculp- 

 ture. The hinge and teeth, while of the same type, are decidedly 

 more delicate. I rank the form as a variety of Venus crispata Desh. 

 (P. Z. S., 1853, p. 2, No. 8), but the lamellae of that species are stated 

 to be "Hi medio et ad margines crassioribus , inflexus," terms hardly 

 applicable to the present species. The description of the interior — 

 "valvis intus in fornice croceis; sinu pallii latissimo, profunda" — is also 

 at variance with the specimens before me. 

 Chione micra n. sp. PI. XLI, figs. 4, 5. 



Shell minute, oval, moderately thick, cream-white, some or all of the 

 ribs stained with light reddish-brown. Beaks small, at about the an- 

 terior third. Lunule cordate, not distinctly defined, escutcheon lanceo- 

 late, slight!}^ excavated. Ligament immersed, short and lanceolate. 

 Sculpture of radial, rounded ribs, 18-20 in number, of wdiich three are 

 on the lunule. The ribs are wider near the anterior end, where several 

 of them are flattened and divided by a median groove, and in the inter- 

 vals of these bifid ribs a minute riblet is interposed near the lower 

 margin. Elsewhere the intervals are about as wide as the ribs. The 

 concentric riblets are low in the intervals, but on the ribs they rise as 

 erect flat scales. The interior is livid -whitish in the cavity, the muscle- 

 impressions, pallial sinus and space below the pallial line being purple- 

 brown, fading to white at the edge. The pallial sinus is short and 

 ascending, round at the end. Both ends and the ventral margin are 

 minutely crenulate within, and the margin within the lunule has very 

 fine crenulations nearly parallel to the long axis of the shell. In the 

 left valve the anterior and posterior cardinal teeth are simple, the 

 median one bifid, the posterior tooth being very thin. The right valve 

 has a bifid median cardinal, simple ones on each side, the anterior tooth 

 very thin. 



Length 5.6, alt. 5, diam 3 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 80,583, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,209 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



I have had these minute shells for several years without being able 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



to identify them as the young of any larger species, although I am 

 disposed to believe that it will be found to reach a larger size. The 

 small number of radial riblets is a prominent feature of the sculpture. 

 Venus imbricata Sowerl^y is a longer species with the lamellae obsolete 

 in the intervals. V. scahra Hanley is unlike in sculpture, but both of 

 these seem related to C. micra. 



Chione hizenensis n. sp. PI. XLI, figs. 1, 2. 



Shell small, shortly ovate, compressed, yellowish, irregularly macu- 

 late with reddish-brown. Beaks slightly in front of the middle, small 

 and projecting but slightly. Anterior end broadly rounded, posterior 

 end narrower and somewhat tapering. Sculpture of about 42 rounded 

 radial riblets, a little wider than their intervals, becoming very small 

 at the two ends of the series, though they are largest at the anterior 

 end of the shell. The ribs of the anterior half of the shell are divided 

 by a narrow median groove, on the lower half of each rib. These 

 radial riblets are crossed by many regular narrow concentric ridges, 

 higher on the ribs than in the intervals; the whole producing the effect 

 of a tiled roof. The interior is white, usually with a drop-shaped 

 purple-brown streak at one or both ends, and more or less extensive 

 stains of similar tint in the cavity. The pallial sinus is short and 

 rounded. The edge is crenulated in harmony with the riblets along the 

 posterior half of the lower margin, but along the anterior half there 

 are about two denticles to each rib. The two ends are very finely 

 crenulate, and the anterior side of the dorsal margin is crenulate par- 

 allel to the longest axis of the shell, the posterior dorsal margin being 

 smooth. The two obliquely triangular cardinal teeth in the right 

 valve and the short median tooth in the right valve are slightly bifid. 



Length 10.8, alt. 8.6, diam. 5 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 86,281, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,0386 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



V. costellifera Adams and Reeve (Zool. "Samarang," Moll., p. 79 

 pi. 21, fig. 18) is a larger, differently colored form from the Philippines, 

 which seems from the description and figure to be closely related, but 

 the scales are stated to be semilunar, while in C. hizenensis they are 

 straight. V. marica differs in sculpture and in the pattern of internal 

 crenulation of the valve margins. 



Pitar sulfurea n. sp. PI. XXXIX, figs. 7, 8, 9. 



The shell is triangular-oval, inflated, solid; pale sulphur-tinted out- 

 side, and distinctly, very finely striate throughout, with some impres- 

 sions indicating former growth-arrests. Beaks full and prominent, 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



about at the anterior third. Anterior end a httle narrower than the 

 posterior, the margin sloping straight to the beak; the posterior upper 

 margin arcuate. No kmule or escutcheon are defined. The hgament 

 is deeply sunken and narrowly lanceolate. The interior is bright red- 

 dish-ochre colored in the cavity, white outside the pallial line. YsLlve 

 margins smooth. The hinge is rather broad, the teeth much like those 

 of Pilar citrina Lam. The pallial and muscle scars are but slightly 

 impressed. The pallial sinus small and ascending, extending a little 

 beyond the posterior third of the shell's length. 



Length 30.5, alt. 26.5, diam. 19.5 mm. 



Length 25.5, alt. 23, diam. IS mm. 



Fukm-a, Awaji. Types No. 82,135, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,297 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Tellina hirasei n. sp. PI. XLI, fig. 3. 



,Shell irregularly ovate, compressed, white and thin. Posterior end 

 tapering to a narrowly rounded termination, the anterior end longer 

 and broadly rounded; lower margin strongly arcuate, upper margins 

 nearly straightly sloping, the beaks very small and but slightly pro- 

 jecting. Sculpture of very fine low rounded simple radial riljlets, at 

 least twice the width of their narrow^ interstices, crossed by equally 

 spaced, thin, erect, minutely crimped concentric lamellar threads, about 

 one-half a mm. apart on the middle of the disk of the type specimen. 

 There is a slight radial ridge posteriorly, the surface of the valves being 

 elsewhere regularly convex. Interior white and glossy, very faintly 

 showing a very deep and wide pallial sinus, extending beyond the 

 middle of the shell, and partly confluent with the pallial line below. 

 In the right valve there are two delicate diverging cardinal teeth, 

 the ends overhanging the cavity, and strong, triangularly elevated 

 lateral teeth. The left valve has two cardinal teeth, the anterior one 

 vertical, slightly bifid, the posterior tooth very thin, and parallel to 

 the posterior dorsal slope. On each side the margin is raised into small 

 lamellae fitting above the lateral teeth of the other valve. The liga- 

 ment is narrow and oblique as usual. 



Length 18.5, alt. 13.6, diam. 7 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Type No. 86,268, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,524 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is an exquisitely sculptured shell, with more delicate concentric 

 lamellae than Semele exarata Ads. and Rve., a species curiously like it 

 in sculpture. It is apparently referable to the subgenus Pseudarco- 

 pagia of Bertin. It resembles Tellina corhis Bronn in sculpture and 

 to some extent in contour. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



Tellina fabrefacta n. sp. PI. XLI, figs. 11, 12. 



Shell oblong, compressed, thin and white; equilateral, the two ends 

 about equally rounded, the upper and basal margins arcuate, the small 

 beaks but slightly projecting, opisthogyrous. Sculpture of coarse 

 concentric ridges nearly as wide as their intervals, the latter decussated 

 with delicate radial riblets, slightly cuneate in each interval. At the 

 posterior end the ridges are broken up, and in combination with the 

 radii form lozenge-shaped tubercles. The glossy interior shows a very 

 capacious linguiform and ascending pallial sinus, rounded at the end, 

 which extends decidedly past the middle of the valve, its lower margin 

 not confluent with the pallial line. In the left valve there is one short, 

 erect cardinal tooth; in the right valve two short, diverging cardinals, 

 and minute anterior and posterior laterals remote from them. 



Length 6, alt. 3.4, diam. 2.1 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 86,304, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,545 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Totally unlike any other species known to me. 



Codakia bella delicatula n. subsp. PI. XLI, figs. 15, 16. 



Compared with C. bella this form is smaller, more inflated, the 

 diameter decidedly exceeding half the length, with finer, more delicate 

 sculpture. 



Length 11.3, alt. 11, diam. 6.5 mm. 



Length 10.5, alt. 11, diam. 6 mm. 



Riukiu Island. Types No. 82,048, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,307 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Typical examples of the widespread Codakia {Jagonia) bella Conr. 

 occur in Japan, having been sent from Hirado, Hizen, by Mr. Hirase 

 (No. 1,530 of his register). It has also been reported by Dunker and 

 others as Lucina diver gens Phil., a name which Dall has shown to be 

 synonymous. Reeve's Lucina fibida is apparently a composite of 

 two species, but the Oriental form included by him and by Adams 

 and Reeve under that name is doubtless identical with C. bella Conrad. 



Cardium hungerfordi Sowerby. PI. XLI, fig. 17. 

 Journal of Malacology, VIII, p. 103 (1901). 

 A figure of this species is given for comparison with the two forms 

 following. All of them occur at Hirado, Hizen, preserving their indi- 

 viduality without intergradation, so far as the material submitted to 

 me shows. All of them are more fragile than C. papyraceum Brug., 

 which has been reported from Japan, but which I have not seen from 

 north of the Philippines. It is not unlikely that the records of Papy- 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



raceum from Japan were based upon specimens of this species or of 

 C. anncB. 



C. hunger fordi is flesh-colored, either almost imiform or with narrow 

 darker concentric zones alternating with wider pale zones. The 

 shell figured measures, length 10, alt. 9, diam. 6.5 mm. It is from 

 Hirado, Hizen, No. 80,601, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,234 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



Cardium hungerfordi undatopictum n. subsp. PI. XL, figs. 14, 15. 



Shell extremely thin, similar in shape to the preceding or with the 

 posterior end longer. Sculpture as in C. hungerfordi, except that very 

 low riblets are visible across the whole valve near the basal margin. 

 Concentrically streaked and profusely marked in zigzag pattern with 

 flesh tint on a whitish ground, the beaks dark. Interior more distinctly 

 marked with waved or zigzag concentric streaks of flesh color or crim- 

 son; radially finely grooved, and the inner margin is distinctly crenu- 

 late in the middle as well as toward the ends. 



Length 16,5, alt. 16.5, diam. 10 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 80,521, A. N, S, P., from No. 880 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is much larger than C. hungerfordi Sowb. Ill, equally thin, 

 but with another pattern of color, much like that of C. amice Pils., 

 from which it differs in sculpture. As in other forms of the group, there 

 is more or less minute roughening of the ends by fine asperities. The 

 marginal crenulation of this form is a feature strongly differentiating 

 it from C. hungerfordi and stigmaticum. 

 Cardium hungerfordi stigmaticum n. subsp. PI. XLI, figs. 13, 14. 



This is a small, thin, nearly equilateral white species, with the apex 

 of each valve red-brown, a vertical streak of the same color on the con- 

 vexity of the valve below it, and sometimes some faint stains of the 

 same at the sides. The white interior shows the median streak, with 

 usually side streaks and often some mottling or a streak along the 

 pallial line. The sculpture consists of about 9 rather strong but low 

 rounded ribs on the posterior slope, divided into two sets by a shallow, 

 wide radial valley, the last rib dorsally having a linear riblet on each 

 side of it. The median portion of the valve is almost smooth, showing 

 the faintest traces of fine riblets near the lower margin ; but where the 

 lower passes into the anterior slope the ribs are decidedly stronger, 

 and denticulate the edge. There is a minute punctulation at both ends 

 in perfectly fresh shells. The right valve has anterior and posterior 

 lateral teeth, the anterior wanting in the other valve. 



Length 11.3, alt. 12, diam. 7,3 mm. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 86,279, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,410 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This very pretty little form differs from C. hungerfordi Sowb. chiefly 

 in coloration. The latter occurs at Hirado, Hizen, also (1,234 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection). 



Cardium annae n. sp. PI. XL, fig. 20. 



Shell subcircular and inflated, almost perfecth^ equilateral, thin 

 white, profusely marked with pale flesh-pink zigzag streaks, the beaks 

 fleshy-brown. Sculpture of fine radial riblets at the ends, each scored 

 at the summit with a finely punctured groove, the grooves persisting 

 over the median portion of the shell where the riblets are obsolete or 

 nearly so. Anteriorly there are about 16 very regular riblets not ex- 

 tending to the edge above, a lanceolate lunular area being left smooth. 

 Posteriorly the riblets are coarser, less regular, part of them flattened 

 and sulcate down the middle. The riblets scarcely crenulate the mar- 

 gins of the valves. The smoothish median part of the shell is regularly 

 marked with close punctured lines, the spaces between them being 

 perceptibly concave. The interior is slightly fluted by the external 

 ribs at the two ends, nearly smooth elsewhere. The zigzag external 

 markings show rose or crimson on a white ground, which deeper in the 

 cavity changes to fleshy-brown. 



The right valve has two contiguous cardinal teeth, the anterior one 

 standing almost above the posterior, and well developed anterior and 

 posterior lateral teeth. In the left valve the cardinals diverge, the 

 anterior being the larger. The anterior lateral is well developed, the 

 posterior obsolete. 



Length 27, alt. 25, diam. 16 mm. 



Hayama, near Kamakura, Sagami, on Sagami Bay. Types No. 

 86,319, A. N. S. P., collected and given to the Academy by Miss Anna 

 C. Hartshorne. 



This beautiful Cardium is related to C. papyracetim Brug., which I 

 have not yet seen from Japan. It is more fragile and more delicately 

 sculptured than that species, in which the inner margins of the valves 

 are closely and deeply fluted. jMoreover, the altitude of C. 'papyraceum 

 decidedly exceeds the length, while in C. annce the length is greater. 

 In C. papyraceum the posterior end is more produced than the anterior, 

 the latter being noticeably straightened and subvertical, while in C. 

 amice the two ends are almost equally rounded. The coloration also 

 differs. 



There is a specimen of this species in the collection of the Academy, 

 received many years ago from Andrew Garrett, labelled "C. tcheliense 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Debeaux, China." Debeaux collected in Chinese waters and pub- 

 lished a little-known and not very valuable paper on his results in 

 Recueil de Memoires de Medicine, de Chirurgie et de Pharmacie mili- 

 taires, redege sous le surveillance du Conseil de Sante, 3 ser., VI, Paris, 

 1861 ; but no mention is made therein of a Cardium tchcliense. I have 

 been unable to trace it in the literature examined. The name suggests 

 that of a province of northern China, but being orthographically 

 defective, I have thought its retention undesirable. 



Kellia porculus n. sp. PI. XLI, figs. 18, 19, 20. 



The small cream-white subglobular shell resembles K. japonica Pils. 

 in outlines, except that it is decidedly more ventricose. The glossy 

 surface is minutely striate, with stronger irregularities at unequal dis- 

 tances indicating periods of growth-arrest. In the right valve there is 

 a single rather Inroad, oblique cardinal tooth, with a socket and a 

 minute tubercle above it, and a small, triangular lateral. The left 

 valve has two erect, subequal cardinals and a strong, triangular lateral. 



Length 8.5, alt. 8, diam. 6 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Type No. 86,266, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,011a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In 7v. japonica Pils. the teeth are all much more delicate and the 

 shell is less inflated. The hinge of K. japonica is figured for compari- 

 son, pi. XLI, fig. 21. 



Solecardia vitrea japonica n. subsp. PI. XLI, fig. 6. 



Shell resembling S. vitrea Quoy and Gaimard {Scintilla aurantiaca 

 Desh.) in shape, but smaller and white. 



Length 10.3, alt. 5, diam. 3 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 86,276, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,544 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Myodora reeveana Smith. PI. XLI, figs. 7, 8, 9, 10. 



Shell small, solid, yellowish-white, with the right valve quite convex 

 and projecting beyond the other below, the left valve flat and smaller. 

 Behind the beaks the dorsal valve-margins are concave and excavated, 

 in front of them they are slightly convex. The basal margin is strongly 

 arcuate, the posterior end truncate and biangular, and the anterior 

 end narrowly rounded. Both valves are irregularly sculptured with 

 coarse wrinkles, the convex valve more strongly so. The pallial sinus 

 is small and triangular. In the right valve the anterior lateral tooth 

 is a long, perfectly straight ridge, the posterior tooth is very small and 

 narrow, largely overhung by the concave valve margin. In the left 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



valve there is a small erect anterior lamella, and a curved posterior 

 one. 



Length 7, alt. 5, diam. 2 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Figured specimens are No. 86,301, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 914 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A peculiar, very asymmetrical little species, originally described 

 from China. Mijodora proxima Smith, 1880 {= triangularis "A. Ad." 

 Dkr., 1882), has also been taken by Mr. Hirase at Hirado, Hizen. 

 These two with M. fluduosa Gld. are the only species of the genus yet 

 reported from Japan. 

 Ostrea circumpicta n. sp. PI. XL, figs. 12, 13. 



The shells of this oyster are very irregular and rough, showing a 

 few radial ridges on the upper valve, and rough lines of growth-arrest. 

 Nearly the whole lower valve has been attached. The exterior is 

 gray or with some pm-ple pencilling. Both valves have long, projecting 

 beaks, and are usually about equally concave within. The interior 

 is bluish-white or dirty white, extensively olive-stained, and often 

 with some purple stains. The borders are smooth or nearly so near 

 the hinge, and smooth or finely, irregularly scalloped elsewhere, and 

 the distal and lateral margins are in part or wholly painted with a 

 rather wide border of purple or groups of purple lines. The length of 

 a well-grown shell is 87, breadth 56 mm. 



Hirado, Hizen. Types No. 80,448, A. N. S. P., from No. 500 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



0. inocquivalvis Sowb.,^ from :\radagascar and Mauritius, is similar in 

 internal coloring. 0. vitrefada Sowb.^ also resembles this species 

 somewhat, but that is conspicuously crenate wdthin. 



Area kobeltiana n. sp. PI. XL, figs. 16, 17, 18, 19. 



Area ocellata'! Kobelt, Conchylien Cabinet, Area, p. 87, PI. 24, figs. 1-4. 

 Not A . ocellata Reeve. 



This is a deep, narrow Area, with a strong diagonal keel and another 

 defining the posterior border of the ligament-area. The surface where 

 unworn is many-ribbed and densely hirsute, but this sculpture and 

 covering persists only at the edges of the specimens before me. The 

 ventral margin gapes rather widely. The wide ligament-area is marked 

 off into concentric lozenges by very numerous ligament-filled diagonal 

 broadly V-shaped sulci, of which I count 11 in a shell 44 mm. long, 

 17 in one 55 mm. long. The hinge-Hne is narrow, the teeth fine, close 



2 Coneh. Icon., XVIII, Ostrea, fig. 82. 



3 Conch. leon., XVIII, Ostrea, fig. 80. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



and vertical in the middle, somewhat irregular there and anteriorly, 

 but posteriorly they become coarse and very oblique, and strongly 

 crenulate on the upper edges. The count of teeth in three shells is 

 as follows, the anterior end preceding : 



23, 17 = 40 teeth; length of shell 44 mm. 



18, 26 = 44 teeth; length of shell 44 mm. 



15, 30 = 45 teeth; length of shell 53 mm. 



The interior is dirty white, sometimes with brown stains, the edges 

 crenulate and brown. 



Length 53, alt. 24, diam. 26 mm. 



Length 44, alt. 21, diam. 23 mm. 



Co-types No. 78,750, A. N. S. P., from the east coast of Japan, col- 

 lected by Miss Anna C. Hartshorne (fig. 17), and No. 58,082, received 

 in a lot of shells from northern Japan, probably Yesso, but the exact 

 locality is unknown. 



I take these shells to belong to the species described by Kobelt in 

 his excellent monograph cited above, and referred by him with great 

 doubt, and on the authority of Mr. E. A. Smith, to A. ocellata Reeve, 

 described from Singapore. Having before me topotypes of A. ocellata, 

 as well as several Japanese specimens which agree with them, I am 

 compelled to regard the two species as entirely distinct, and not even 

 closely related, although they agree in general shape. The ligament- 

 area in A. ocellata is smooth, scored by only a few, usualh' imperfect 

 ligament grooves, there being a large oblique triangle posteriorly and 

 an erect triangle between the beaks free from them. The two oblique 

 triangles marked by grooves are usually covered with a smooth yellow 

 (or in some Japanese shells, blackish) cuticle, while the rest of the 

 area is whitish. This is well shown in the dorsal aspect of a specimen 

 of A. ocellata from the province of Suruga (No. 71,041, A. N. S. P.), 

 drawn in fig. 21 of pi. XL. 



Area ocellata does not attain nearly the size of A. hobeltiana, an adult 

 Singapore shell measuring, length 26, alt. 12.5, diam. 13 mm. The 

 Japanese specimens with unworn surface are somewhat more regular 

 in growth than those from Singapore, and have a very narrow ven- 

 tral gape. One measures, length 20.5, alt. 11.6, diam. 10.6 mm. The 

 diagonal keel is very acute. 



Reference to Plates XXXIX-XLI. 



Plate XXXIX, Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Mactra carneoplda Pils. 

 Figs. 4, 5, 6. — Spisula bernardi Pils. 

 Figs. 7. 8, 9.—Pitar sulfurea Pils. 

 Figs. 10, 11. — Cytherea crispata amida Pils. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Plate XL, Figs. 12, 13.— Ostrea circumpida Pils. 



Figs. 14, 15. — Cardium hungerfordi undatopictum Pils 

 Figs. 16, 17, 18, l^.—Arca kobeltiana Pils. 

 Fig. 20. — Cardium annce Pils. 

 Fig. 21. — Area ocellata Reeve. 



Plate XLI, Figs. 1, 2.—Chione hizenensis Pils. 

 Fig. 3. — Tellina hirasei Pils. 

 Figs. 4, 5. — Chione micra Pils. 

 Fig. 6. — Soletellina vitrea japonica Pils 

 Figs. 7, 8, 9, lO.—Myodora reevcana Smith. 

 Figs. 11, 12.— Tellina fabrefada Pils. 

 Figs. 13, 14.— Cardium hungerfordi stigmaticum Pils 

 :tigs. 15, IQ.—Codakia bella delicahda Pils. 

 I'lg. 17. — Cardium hungerfordi Sowb 

 Figs. 18, 19, 20.— Kellia porculus Pils. 

 Fig. 21. — Kellia japonica Pils. 



561 



36 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



NOTES ON ORTHOPTERA FROM ARIZONA, NEW MEXICO AND COLORADO. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The specimens mentioned in the following pages are almost all con- 

 tained in the collection of the Academy, and chiefly represent collec- 

 tions made in the summer of 1902 in central Arizona, northern New 

 Mexico and central Colorado by C. F. Oslar, and in the summer of 

 1903 by C. R. Biederman, at Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. A 

 few specimens from Yuma county, Arizona, belonging to the Hebard 

 Collection, have also been studied in this connection. 



Family PORFICULIDiE. 

 Labia melanoholica Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. (C. R. Biederman.) Seven speci- 

 mens of both sexes. 



This species, described from either Waco or near Austin, Texas, has 

 apparently been imrecognized since the original description until the 

 capture of the above-recorded individuals. 



Family BLATTID^ 

 Periplaneta americana (Linnseus). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. (C. R. Biederman.) Numerous 

 individuals. 



Family MANTIDJE. 

 Litaneutria minor (Scudder). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 26, September 20 and Octo- 

 ber 9, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Three males, three females. 



Two of the females show decided traces of a rich vermilion coloration, 

 which apparently suffused the entire abdomen, thorax and limbs. 

 Stagmomantis Carolina (Linnaus). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 13, 1903. (C. R. Bieder- 

 man.) Two males, 

 stagmomantis limbata (Hahn). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 26, August 10 and September 

 4, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) One adult and two immature females. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



Family ACRIDID^. 

 Mermiria bivittata (.Serville). 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New Mexico. July 16, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) 



Salt Lake Valley, Utah. August 2, 1896. One male. 



Acrolophitus Mrtipes (Say). 



Raton, Colfax county. New Mexico. August 1, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 Four females. 



Bootettix argentatus Bruner. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 13, 1903. (C. R. Bieder- 

 man.) One adult female and four nymphs. 



Chloealtis abdominalis (Thomas). 



Truchas Peak, Rio Arriba county. New Mexico. August 4, 1902. 

 (W. P. Cockerell.) One female. 



Inseparable from a female individual from Manitoba, Canada. 



Horesidotes cinereus Scudder? 



Yuma county, Arizona. September, 1903. One male. Coll. Mor- 

 gan Hebard. 



This specimen probably belongs to this genus and species, but several 

 characters, such as the proportions of the prozona and metazona, do 

 not agree with the description. These parts are said to be "of sub- 

 equal length," while in the specimen at hand the metazona is decidedly 

 shorter than the prozona. Generally, however, the specimen agrees 

 very well with the description. 



Gomphocerus clepsydra Scudder. 



Truchas Peak, Rio Arriba county, New Mexico. 13,000-14,000 feet 

 elevation and above timber line. August 2, 1902. (W. P. Cockerell.) 

 One male, two females. 



I am not prepared to make any critical remarks on the standing of 

 the several American "species" of this genus, and accordingly the use 

 of clepsydra as a full species should not be considered an expression of 

 opinion, but simply the utilization of a term to designate a type the 

 validity of which is, to say the least, doubtful. 



Boopedon nubilum (Say). 



Thumb^Butte, Arizona.J^July 11, 1902. (Oslar.) One male. 



LigurotettixSkunzei Caudell. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 1, 1903. (C. F, Biederman.) 

 One male. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Arphia arcta (Scudder). 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 26. 1902. (Oslar.) Two 

 males, two females. 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New ^lexico. July 12, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female, 



I cannot agree with CaudelP in uniting A. teporaia with this species. 

 They appear to me quite distinct, and separable by the length of the 

 tegmina and wings in the female, and in the form of the vertex. In 

 this connection I have examined thirty-seven specimens of the two 

 species. 



Arphia canora n. sp. 



?1902. Arphia nietana Scudder and Cockerell, Proc. Davenport Acad. Sci., 

 IX, p. 28. (Not of Saussure.) 



Types: d^ and 9; Salt Lake City, Utah (c"). and Albuquerque, 

 Bernalillo county. New Mexico. (Oslar: July 15. 1902.) ( ? ) 



Allied to A. nietana Saussure, but differing in the slenderer form, the 

 narrower vertex, the more vertical face, the longer metazona and the 

 slenderer posterior femora. 



(^. — Size medium; form somewhat slender. Head with the occiput 

 bearing several longitudinal rug£e, the median one extending forward 

 to the tip of the scutellum of the vertex; scutellum p\Tiform, longer 

 than broad, very slightly excavated, margins moderately high, the 

 median carina broken centrally; lateral foveolae elongate, subtrigonal, 

 not strongly marked; frontal costa broad and subequal inferiorly, at 

 the ocellus expanded and slightly and shallowly excavated, above the 

 ocellus distinctly constricted, subequal, apex truncate, this portion 

 w^ith a distinct median carina; eye not prominent and about equal in 

 length to the infraocular portion of the genae; antenna a1)out equal 

 to the head and pronotum in length. Pronotum with the median 

 carina rather low, even, distinctly cut by the last sulcus; anterior 

 margin very obtuse-angulate ; posterior margin acute-angulate with 

 the angle rounded ; surface of the disk rugoso-granulate ; lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum subequal, deeper than wide. Interval between the 

 metasternal lobes slightly longer than broad. Tegmina moderately 

 long; apex obliquely truncate; greatest width about median. Wings 

 not elongate, two-thirds as wide as long. Posterior femora robust, 

 reaching to the apex of the abdomen, superior and inferior margins 

 equally arcuate. 



9. — Similar to the male with the following important exceptions: 

 Scutellum of the A-ertex broad, about as broad as long; frontal costa 



1 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 785. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, "^^ 565 



distinctly silicate below the ocellus; antennse somewhat shorter than 

 the head and pronotum. Median carina of the pronotum lower than in 

 the male; posterior margin of the pronotmii rectangulate with the 

 apex rounded. Intervals between the metastcrnal lobes verj^ slightly- 

 broader than long. 



General color blackish-brown, sprinkled with small obscure blackish 

 maculations. Abdomen and under surface dull yellowish in the male, 

 varying from yelloT\ish-brown to dark wood-brown in the females, and 

 the paler specimens of the latter sex have the abdomen with regular 

 lateral blotches of brownish-black. Tegmina of the general color. 

 Wings with the disk flame-scarlet, the fuscous bar rather dark but 

 fading on the posterior margin of the wing ; apex suffused with fuscous ; 

 taenia rather broad, solid, but not reaching the base of the wing; costal 

 margin of the color of the disk. Posterior femora externally with 

 traces of several transverse dark bars, the apical one of which is fairly 

 apparent and somewhat contrasts a weak pregenicular annulus of 

 ochraceous; genicular region blackish; internal face with the pre- 

 genicular annulus yellowish and distinct, the remainder black with 

 the superior and inferior margins cut by two broken bars of yellowish. 

 Posterior tibise greenish-yellow {o") or dull brown, dark apically; 

 spines tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 24 mm. 27 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 6 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 4.1 " 4.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 24 " 26.5 " 



Greatest \sadth of tegmina, 5 " 5.5 " 



Length of wdng, 19.5 " 23 " 



Length of posterior femora, 13.7 " 14.2 " 



The series of this species examined comprises twelve specimens 

 from the following localities: Salt Lake City, Utah (three males); 

 Silver Lake, Utah [Skinner] (two males); Albuquerque, New Mexico 

 [Oslar] (two females); Jerome, Arizona [Oslar] (three males and two 

 females). The most striking variation exliibited by the series is in 

 color, size being quite constant. The ground color in some individuals 

 is almost uniform, in others strongly maculate, while several have the 

 posterior margin and the entire lateral lobes of the pronotum conspicu- 

 ously barred with the two primary shades. In several specimens the 

 axillary field of the tegmina is straw-colored, while a great amount of 

 variation is exhibited in the intensity of the external bars of the 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



posterior femora. The color of the disk of the wings appears to be 



constant. 



Arphia pseudonietana (Thomas). 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county, New Mexico. (Oslar.) One male, 

 one female. 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county. New Mexico. July 14, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male. 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. (Oslar.) One male, two females. 



Enooptolophus subgracilis CaudeU. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. May 8, July 10 and August 25, 

 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Four females. 



One of these specimens is considerably smaller than the others, but 

 otherwise they are structurally uniform. The disk of the pronotum, 

 top of the head and the posterior femora are pea-green in one specimen ; 

 the others have these parts of the brownish shades noted in the original 

 description. 

 Camnula pellucida (Scudder). 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. (Oslar.) One male. 



Thumb Butte, Arizona. (Oslar.) One immature female. 



Hippiscus zapotecus (Saussure). 



Pecos, San Miguel county, New Mexico. June 20, 1902. (W. P. 

 Cockerell.) One female. 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 20, 21 and 25, 

 1902. (Oslar.) Nine females. 



Hippiscus CUpiduS Scudder. 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 27, 1902. (Oslar). Two 

 males. 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. May 19, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 female. 



Leprus elephas Saussure. 



Reef, Cochise county, Arizona. October 29, 1903. (C. R. Bieder- 

 man.) One female. 



This specimen is inseparable from individuals from the state of San 

 Luis Potosi. 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus). 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 23, 25 and 

 26, 1902. (Oslar.) One male, one female, four nymphs. 



Sapello Canon, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 26, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 21, 22 and 23, 

 1902. (Oslar.) Three males, three females. 



Albuquerque, Bernainio county, New Mexico. July 12, 15, 16 and 

 17, 1902. (Oslar.) Five males. 



Spliaragemon inornatum Morse. 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 21, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 

 Derotmema laticinctum Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. (C. R. Biederman.) One male. 



Derotmema haydeni (Thomas). 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 21, 29 and 

 30, 1902. (Oslar.) Six females. 



Santa Fe, Santa Fe county. New Mexico. July 19, 1902. (Oslar.) 



One male. 



Cerro del Corazon, New Mexico. July 16, 1902. (Miss Alice Blake.) 



Three females. 



Trepidulus rosaceus McNeill. 



1901 Trepidulus rosaceus McNeill, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, pp. 



394,398. January 19, 1901. [San Bernardino, Cal.] 

 1901. ArcEopteryx penelope Caudell, Canad. Entom., XXXlii, p. iO-. 



April, 1901. [Prescott, Arizona.] 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 26 and August 10, 1903. 

 (C. R. Biederman.) One male, one female. 



The above synonymy is evident after studying each description. It 

 is unfortunate that the exceedingly poor and insufficient description of 

 T. rosaceus should have precedence over the excellent one of ArmjJ- 

 teryx, but the law of priority leaves us no other course. 



Mestobregma kiowa (Thomas). 



Raton, Colfax county. New Mexico. (Oslar.) 

 This is apparently the first New Mexican record. 



Conozoa acuminata Scudder? 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. June 8 and July 9, 1903. (C. R. 

 Biederman.) Two males. 



Phoenix, Maricopa county, Arizona. April 22, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 One male. 



There is a little doubt as to the identity of these specimens, but they 

 fit this form better than any other. 

 Trimerotropis laticinota Saussure. 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county. New Mexico. (Oslar.) One 

 male, one female. 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



These specimens are grayer than a female individual from Sidney, 

 Nebraska, received from Prof. Bruner. The female has the tegmina 

 decidedly longer than in the Nebraskan example. 



Trimerotropis vinculata Scudder. 



Raton, Colfax county, New Mexico. (Oslar.) Two males, one 

 female. 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New Mexico. (Oslar.) Three 

 males, one female. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. May 3, 5 and 8 and August 18, 

 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Two males, two females. 



Phoenix, Maricopa county, Arizona. April 10, 17, 19, 22, 24 and 28, 

 1902. (Oslar.) Four males, six females. 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. May 7, 1902. (Oslar.) Two 

 males, one female. 



Trimerotropis rubripes n- sp. 



Type: 9 ; Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New Mexico. July 15, 

 1902. (Oslar.) 



Allied to T. agrestis McNeill, but differing in the longer wings and 

 tegmina, the weaker lateral fastigial carina and the darker coloration. 



Size rather large. Head with the interspace between the eyes 

 moderately broad; scutellum of the vertex slightly longer than broad, 

 but slightly excavated and without a median carina; lateral foveolse 

 minute, subtrigonal; frontal costa not reaching the clypeus, faintly 

 expanded inferiorly, superior portion subequal, all moderately sulcate ; 

 eye moderately prominent, rather small, decidedly less than the infra- 

 ocular portion of the gense in length; antennae slight. Pronotum with 

 the disk flat, median carina distinctly carinate anteriorly, but very 

 weak posteriorly; prozona about half the length of the metazona; 

 anterior margin very obtuse-angulate, posterior margin acute-angulate ; 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum subequal in width, the inferior margin 

 posteriorly with a small angulate process. Interval between the meta- 

 sternal lobes shallow and strongly transverse. Tegmina long, over 

 five times as long as the greatest width; apex obliquely truncate. 

 Wings slender, considerably more than half again as long as wide; 

 apex somewhat falcate. Posterior femora robust, the inferior margin 

 distinctly more arcuate than the superior. 



General color ecru-drab, suffused more or less strongly with russet. 

 Head and pronotum strongly infuscate and punctulate with russet. 

 Tegmina with two transverse bars poorly represented by groups of 

 russet annuli and small maculations, these almost limited to the dis- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



coidal field, one median in position and the other equidistant from this 

 and the base ; distal portion of the tegmina hyaline except in the costal 

 region. Wings with the disk about as broad as long, sulphur-yellow 

 in color; fuscous bar broad, one-fourth as broad as the length of the 

 wing, clove-brown in color; ulnar taenia broad but short, and not reach- 

 ing half way to the base of the wing; apical third hyahne, except for 

 the proximal portion of the costal margin, which is brownish. Pos- 

 terior femora pale cinnamon externally, the carinse dotted with black- 

 ish, and the superior face with traces of two fuscous bars; internally 

 ecru-drab with a rather narrow preapical band and a broad medio- 

 basal blotch of black ; inferior sulcus orange-vermilion with a preapical 

 bar of black; genicular region blackish internally. Posterior tibiae 

 orange-vermilion, the basal portion externally hoary; spines narrowly 

 tipped with black. 



Measurement 



Length of body, 33.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 5.5 " 



Length of tegmina, 36 " 



Greatest width of tegmina, 6 " 



Length of wings, 32 " 



Width of wings, 18.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 15.8 " 



The type is the only specimen of this species examined. 



Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner. 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. July 5, 1902. (Oslar.) Two 

 males. 



Circotettix undulatus (Thomas). 



Beulah, San Miguel county. New Mexico. 1902. (W. P. Cockerell.) 

 One male. 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county. New Mexico. July 12 and 13, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male, two females. 



It is quite possible that some point more elevated than the immediate 

 vicinity of Albuquerque is the real locality from which these latter 

 specimens were taken. 



Circotettix suiFusus (Scudder). 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 21, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New Mexico. July 15, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



The remarks made under the previous species apply with equal force 

 to the above records. 



Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say). 



Raton, Colfax county, New Mexico. August 1, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 One male. 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 23, 1 902. (Oslar.) 

 One female. 



Copper Basin, Arizona. (Oslar.) One immature male. 



Heliastus aridus (Bruner). 



Quartzsite, Yuma county, Arizona. April 20, 1903. Four females. 

 These specimens agree very well with a large New Mexican series. 



Paropomala virgata Scudder. 



Yuma county, Arizona. September, 1903. Three males, seven 

 females. Hebard Coll. 



The great amount of color variation noticed by Scudder is also 

 evident in this series, the range of general color being from chalky- 

 white and brownish to dull greenish. 



Schistoceroa shoshone (Thomas). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 10, 25 and 26 and October 

 9, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Two males, four females. 



ScMstocerca vaga (Scudder). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. May 8, 31 ; June 4, 8, 24; July 23, 

 26; August 25; September 20, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Six males, 

 seven females. 



Hesperotettix festivus Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. August 10 and September 20, 

 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Two males, three females. 



These individuals fully agree with a series from Phoenix, Arizona. 

 All five specimens possess reddish pregenicular annuli. 



Hesperotettix viridis (Thomas). 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 21, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 27, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 female. 



The collection also contains a short-winged individual, apparently 

 similar to the ones mentioned by Scudder, from Ruby Valley, Nevada, 

 which I have doubtfully referred here. It was taken at Prescott, 

 Arizona, July 5, 1902, by Oslar. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Melanoplus herbaceus Bruner. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. June 2 and August 10, 1903. 

 (C. R. Biederman.) Two females. 



Melanoplus fiavidus Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. August 25 and October 3, 1903. 

 (C. R. Biederman.) One male, one female. 



Mr. Caudell has compared these specimens with U. S. National 

 Museum material and regards them as fiavidus. From specimens of 

 fiavidus from Wyoming, determined by Bruner, they differ in the slen- 

 derer form, in which respect they are approaching M. elongatus, but 

 the structure of the cerci are not as in that species. 



Melanoplus exoelsus Scudder. 



Truchas Peak (at timber-line, 13,000-14,000 feet), Rio Arriba 

 county, New Mexico. August 2, 1902. (W. P. Cockerell.) Two 

 males. 

 Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. May 8, 18, and 20 and September 

 20, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Three males, one female. 



Las Vegas, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 10, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male. 



Melanoplus aridus (Scudder). 



Florence, Pinal county, Ai'izona. July 13, September 20 and Octo- 

 ber 3, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) One male, two females. 



Melanoplus altitudinum (Scudder). 



Raton, Colfax county, New Mexico. August 1, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 One female. 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 9, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male. 



Copper Basin, Arizona. July 7, 1902. (Oslar.) Two females. 



The above individuals fully agree in structure wdth a series from the 

 Big Horn Mountains, Wyoming, but are slightly smaller; in this respect 

 similar to several specimens from the Sacramento Mountains, southern 

 New Mexico. 



Melanoplus sapellanus Scudder. 



Truchas Peak, Rio Arriba county. New Mexico. August 2, 1902. 

 (W. P. Cockerell.) Three females. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum (DeGeer). 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 7, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male. 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juty, 



Melanoplus canonicus Scudder? 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. September 20, 1903. (C. R, 

 Biederman.) One female. 



There is some doubt attached to the identification of this specimen. 



Melanoplus minor (Scudder). 



Pecos, San Miguel county. New Mexico. June 28, 1902. (Gra- 

 bhens.) One male. 



Prescott, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 9, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male. 



These specimens are inseparable from eastern individuals. This is 

 the first record of the species from Arizona. 



Melanoplus differentialis (Thomas). 



Albuquerque, Bernalillo county, New Mexico. July 15, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male. 



Melanoplus bivittatus (Say). 



Sapello Canon, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 26, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 



Albuquerque, BernaMo county, New Mexico. July 12, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male. 

 Poecilotettix sanguineus Scudder. 



Bill Williams Fork, Mohave-Yuma counties, Arizona. August. 

 (F. H. Snow.) One male, one female. 



Dactylotum pictum (Thomas). 



Arrayo,- Pecos river. New Mexico. July IS, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male, three females. 



Cerro del Corazon, New Mexico. July 16, 1902. (Miss Alice Blake.) 

 One male, three females. 



Family TETTIGONID^. 

 Hormilia elegans Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. June 8, 14; July 13, 23, and Sep- 

 tember 20, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) Two adult males, five adult 

 females, four n3^mphs. 



This species is exceedingly variable in coloration and slightly so 

 in structure. The typical form of Scudder is represented more or less 

 closely by five of the specimens in the collection, but the two adult 

 males have the basic color of the tegmina olivaceous, and the "herring- 

 bone" pattern of the typical form replaced by regularly disposed 

 patches of glaucous green, while the distal portion of the posterior 



' Apparently an error for arroyo, i.e., torrent-bed or guUy. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



femora and the proximal portion of the posterior tibia? are ornamented 

 with a broad ring of glaucous green. The lateral carina? of the pro- 

 notum also vary considerably in strength. 

 Conocephalus ensiger Harris. 



Rio Grande river, New Mexico, July 17, 1902. (Oslar.) Three 



This is the first record of the species from New ISIexico, and while the 

 data is vague, it is evident they were taken in northern New Mexico. 



Xiphidion fasciatum (DeGeer). 



Rio Grande river. New Mexico. July 15 and 16, 1902. (Oslar.) 



Two males. 



Capnobotes fuliginosus (Thomas). • r^ i ^ 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 27 and 28, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 One male, one female. 

 Drymadusa arizonensis n. sp. 



Type: d^ ; Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. 1903. (C. R. Biedcr- 

 man.) Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



This specimen is unquestionably a member of the Palearctic genus 

 Drymadusa, and is closest related to D. limhota Brunner,^ from Asia 

 Minor, but is easily separated by the much smaller size and slenderer 

 tegmina, as well as the more apparent maculations of the same. 



Size rather large; form considerably elongate. Head with the 

 occiput rounded transversely, not elevated sloping gradually to the 

 rather narrow, partially sulcate fastigium, which latter is deflected 

 and touches the frontal process, width of the fastigium less than that 

 of the fu-st antennal joint; eyes wide apart, prominent, subglobose; 

 antenna as long as the tegmina. Pronotum selliform; anterior mar- 

 gin shallowly emarginate, posterior margin broadly and evenly rotun- 

 date; lateral lobes with the inferior margin rather narrowly rounded; 

 posterior sinus very sHght. Tegmina elongate, exceeding the apex of 

 the abdomen by half their length, the greatest width is contained six 

 and a half times in the length, apex obliquely truncato-rotundate, 

 costal expansion regular but not marked, greatest basally and narrowing 

 gradually toward the apex. Wings equal to the tegmina in length. 

 Abdomen somewhat compressed ; supra-anal plate triangvdar, deeply 

 and very narrowly divided into two elongate acute lobes; cerci rather 

 short, the apical portion with two distinct hooks on the internal face; 

 subge'nital plate compressed, deep, inferiorly carinate, apical margin 

 triangularly incised. A nterior femo ra longer than the pronot um, 



^Prodr. Europ. Orth., p. 314. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



internal inferior margin with three to four very distinct spines; tibise 

 with two spines on the external superior margin. Median femora 

 slightly longer than the anterior, external inferior margin with one or 

 two spines; tibise with two spines on the external superior margin and 

 three internal superior margin. Posterior femora slightly shorter 

 than the head and body, apical half slender and subecjual, basal half 

 moderately expanded; tibise slightly longer than the femora, com- 

 pressed quadrate in section, regularly spined above, except basally, 

 where the spines are fewer, inferior face with seven pairs of spines and 

 several odd ones, upper inner calcar much exceeding the external in 

 size; posterior tarsi of the type usual in the genus. 



General color ochraceous bufif (probably greenish in life) washed with 

 apple-green on the tegmina. Head darker above than below; eyes 

 hazel. Pronotum with an hour-glass-shaped figure on the median 

 portion of the disk and a line along the posterior portion of the lateral 

 lobes approximately parallel to the margin blackish-brown; posterior 

 margin of the disk of the pronotum broadly bone- white. Tegmina 

 with a distinct median longitudinal series of subcircular opacjue whitish 

 spots, flanked above by a short series not so distinct, a few poorly de- 

 fined blotches along the anal margin and an irregular jumbled series 

 in the costal field. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 29 mm. 



Length of pronotum , 6.8 " 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotum, 5 " 



Length of tegmina, 41 " 



Greatest width of tegmina, 6.5 " 



Length of posterior femora, 24.5 " 



The type is the only specimen which has been examined. 

 Ateloplus notatus Scud-Jer. 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 26, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 immature male. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) 

 One female. 



The immature specimen was studied by Mr. Caudell, and compared 

 with the type. This species was originally described from San Diego, 

 California. 

 Ceathophilus arizonensis Soudder. 



Jerome, Yavapai county, Arizona. June 26, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 575 



Sapello Canon, San Miguel county, New Mexico. July 25, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One female. 



The only previous New Mexican record of this species is from Fort 

 Wingate. 



Family GRYLLID^. 

 Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) 

 One female. 

 Gryllus personatus Uhler. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. September 5, 1903. (C. R. 

 Biederman.) One female. 



Flagstaff, Coconino county, Arizona. July 12 and 13, 1903. (Oslar.) 

 Eight males. 



Phoenix, Yavapai county, Arizona. April 23, 1902. (Oslar.) One 

 male. 



All the specimens of this species examined are macropterous. 

 Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burmeister. 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 12, 1903. (C. R. Biederman.) 

 One female. 



Flagstaff, Coconino county, Arizona. July 12, 1902. (Oslar.) 

 One female. 



Gallinas Canon, San Miguel county. New Mexico. July 21, 1902. 

 (Oslar.) One male, one female. 

 Miogryllus lineatus (Scudder). 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. June 8, 1903 [one]. (C. R. 

 Biederman.) All more or less immature, four males, two males. 



The two females are much larger than the other individuals and liave 

 the heads solid blackish-brown. 

 (Eoanthus fasciatus Fitch? 



Florence, Pinal county, Arizona. July 26 and September 20, 1903. 

 (C. R. Biederman). Two females. 



These individuals are referred here with considerable doubt. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



ON A COLLECTION OF BIRDS AND MAMMALS FROM MOUNT SANHEDRIN,1I 



CALIFORNIA, 



BY WITMER STONE. 



(With Field Notes by A. S. Bunnell.) 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has recently se- 

 cured a valuable collection of Calif ornian birds and mammals, formerly 

 the property of Mr. A. S. Bunnell, of Berkeley. Mr. Bunnell collected 

 most of his specimens in the neighborhood of Berkeley and about Mount 

 Tallac in the Sierras, both of which localities have received consideralDle 

 study of late years, especially with regard to their avifauna. The most 

 interesting portion of the collection, however, comes from Mount Sanhe- 

 drin, in ^lendocino county, and as practically nothing has been pub- 

 lished upon the fauna of this region, it seems desirable to present the 

 results of Mr. Bunnell's work. In reply to my request for informa- 

 tion as to the nature of the country, he has very kindly furnished me 

 with the following account, which I quote in full. 



"I was located at Lierlie's ranch, 2,100 feet elevation, which is a 

 cluster of cottages on the north side of a range of spruce-covered hills 

 that rise from Thomas creek, a tributary of Eel river. On the opposite 

 side of this creek from the ranch rises Mount Sanhedrin, which attains 

 an elevation of about 5,000 feet. The whole country is covered with 

 Douglass Spruce and Bull Pine forests on the north sides of the hills, 

 with a few cedars in the shady parts. In more level places there are 

 madronos and black oaks, and on exposed sunny slopes either manza- 

 nita and other brush or else grassy clearings. Where the forests are 

 not deep there is much underbrush, and along Thomas creek are alders 

 and willows. The creek is a wild trout stream about twenty feet in 

 width, tumbling throughout its length, while Eel river is about thirty 

 yards wide. There is an abundance of water, although the region lies 

 east of the humid coast belt, and there are no redwoods to be found. 



''The ranch is in the transition zone, apparently nearly on the bound- 

 ary, as one can hear at the same time the songs of the Russet-back and 

 Dwarf Hermit Thrushes and the calls of the Valley Quail and Plumed 

 Partridge. Mount Sanhedrin runs up into the Hudsonian, and on its 

 top, where the snow disappears in May, are found the Thick-biUed 

 Sparrow, Golden-crowned Kinglet and ■Mountain Chickadee. The top 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



of the mountain is mostly covered with low snow-crushed spiny brush, 

 while White-barked Firs grow on the north side." 



The specimens were collected on two trips made in 1897 and 1899, 

 during the months of May, June and July. 



MAMMALS. 



Twenty-one species of mammals were secured by Mr. Bunnell, 

 and eleven others are reported by him as occurring in the vicinity. For 

 the identification of the bats I am indebted to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, while 

 Mr. W. H. Osgood has kindly examined several of the other species and 

 compared them with specimens in the collection of the U. S. Biological 

 Survey. Species reported by Mr. Bunnell but not represented in the 

 series are marked with an asterisk. 



Citellus graminiirus douglasii (Richardson). Columbian Spermophile. 



Two males. June 11 and July 14. Central shoulder patch jet black, 

 and sides very bright silvery gray. 



Eutamias hindsi (Gray). Hinds' Chipmunk. 



A male and female, May 30 and June 28, are in the dull pelage, but 

 another pair secured July 8 have patches of bright rusty hairs cropping 

 out on the back and sides. 



Sciurus douglasii albolimbatus Allen. Sierran Chickaree. 



One female example, June 30, which seems absolutely identical with 

 central Sierra specimens and shows no tendency toward moUipilosus 

 of the redwood belt. 



Sciurus griseus Ord. Oregon Gray Squirrel. 



Six specimens, June 1 to July 24. 

 Reithrodontomys longicauda (Baird). 



One specimen, a female, June 11. ^leasurements as follows: Length 

 115 mm., tail 37 (partly lost), hind foot 19, ear 15. Apparently identi- 

 cal with Berkeley specimens. 

 Peromyscus gambelii (Baird). White-footed Mouse. 



Represented by a full series of specimens. 



Peromyscus truei (Shufeldt). Big-eared Mouse. 



Four adults in tawny pelage, May 29 to June 14; two probably 

 younger, June 13 and 14, much less tawny, and five young, May 29- 

 June 14, in mouse gray pelage, some of them with buff patches on the 

 sides, showing the molt into the preceding stage. 



I was at first inclined to think that some of these were P. boylii, but 

 comparison with specimens of the latter, kindly loaned by Mr. D. G. 

 37 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Elliot from the collection of the Field Columbian Museum, convinces 

 me that they all belong to the present species. 



Neotoma fuscipes Baird. Round-tailed Wood Rat. 



Two adults and two young, June 13-15. These seem identical with 

 Berkeley specimens, and it is noticeable that one from each locality has 

 a partly bicolor tail. In this and other respects this rat seems subject 

 to much individual variation, and I cannot but think that some of the 

 recently established forms which do not seem to have any distinctive 

 geographic range will prove to have been based upon unstable charac- 

 ters. 



Microtus californicus (Peale). California Vole. 



One specimen, identical with those from Berkeley. 



Phenacomys longicaudus True. 



One female example of this rare mouse was found dead in a road, 

 June 30. 1899 (No. 11,625, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.). The occur- 

 rence of this species so far south of its previously known habitat in 

 C)regon is of particular interest, apart from the fact that this is, so far 

 as I am aware, only the third specimen that has been secured.^ 



In color this specimen is pale rusty, with an admixture of grayish- 

 white hairs, especially about the head and shoulders, and with long 

 rather inconspicuous black hairs scattered over the whole upper surface, 

 beneath grayish-white with the plumbeous bases of the hairs showing 

 through, feet pale rusty above, grayish-white below, tail dark brown 

 with a mixture of silvery white hairs below which make it appear 

 indistinctly bicolor. 



Length 170 mm., tail 70, hind foot 19. 



The skull resembles that of P. preblei (the only one available for com- 

 parison) in general appearance, but is relatively narrower. Basilar 

 length 20 mm., zygomatic breadth 14, occipito-nasal length 24, length 

 of nasals 7. The teeth have been described in detail by Mr. Miller. 

 Those of the present specimen are considerably worn. 



Thomomys bottae (Eydoux and Gervais). California Gopher. 



Three specimens. 



Lepus badnnani W^aterhouse. Bachman's Rabbit. 



Two specimens, a female and young male, July 6 and June 14. 



*Lepiis californicus Gray. California Jack Rabbit. 



Jack rabbits are reported as abundant in Mr. Bunnell's notes. 

 1 Cf. Miller, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XI (1897), p. 85. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



Odocoileus columbianus (Richardson). Columbia Black-tailed Deer. 



Mr. Bunnell states that black-tailed deer are abundant, but no mule 

 deer are to be found. Old elk horns have sometimes been found in the 

 region. 



Myotis lucifugus longicrus (True). 



Male. July 15. 



Myotis californicus caurinus Miller. 



Three males and two females, ^lay 26 to July 8. 



Myotis evotis (H. Allen). Big-eared Bat. 



Male. July 25. 



Lasionycteris noctivagans (LeConte). Silver-haired Bat. 



Three examples. June 4 to 16. 

 Pipistrellus hesperus (H. Allen). 

 Female. July 21. 



Eptesicus fuscus (Beauvais). Large Brown Bat. 



Male and female. July 21 and 25. These specimens arc identical 

 with topotypes of E. fuscus from Philadelphia. 



♦Mephitis occidentalis Baird. Large Skunk. 



Skunks are reported as ''very common." 

 Spilogale phenax Merriam. Little Skunk. 



Also "very common." One specimen secured seems to be typical of 

 this species. 



♦Lutreola vison energumenos Bangs? Pacific Mink. 



Minks are "common." 



*Mustela caurina Merriam ? Pacific Marten. 



]\Iarteixs are reported as occurring sparingly. 

 *Lutra canadensis Schreber. Otter. 



"Fairly common." 

 ♦Putorius xanthogenys (Gray). 



"Brindled weasel common," presumably this species. 



Procyon psora Merriam? Raccoon. 



"Common." One specimen obtained. 

 *TJrsus americanus Pallas. Black Bear. 



"A few, especially on the mountain." 



•Canis ochropus Eschz.? Coyote. 



"A few are found." 



*TJrocyon californicus (Mearns). California Gray Fox. 



"Common." 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



*Felis oregonensis Rafinesque. Oregon Puma. 



''Fairly common," presumably this form. 



*Lynx sp. Wildcat. 



''Common." 



BIRDS. 



The collection of birds contains representatives of fifty-six species, 

 all of which, from the time of capture, may be regarded as breeding. 

 To these Mr. Bunnell has added thirty-three species observed, but not 

 secured. These are marked with an asterisk. The collection has been 

 carefully identified with reference to subspecific differences, as the 

 locality is to some extent on the borderland of the humid coast, the 

 Sierran and the Upper Sonoran faunas. The field notes are entirely 

 from Mr. Bunnell's journal. 



*Aix sponsa (Linn.)- Wood Duck. 



Occurs on Eel river. 



*Ardea herodias Linn. Great Blue Heron. 



On Eel river. 

 Actitis macularia (Linn.). Spotted Sandpiper. 



On Eel river. 



Lophortyx califomicus vallicola (Ridgw.). Valley Partridge. 



Abundant. Birds are quite typical. 



Oreortyx pictus plumiferus (Gould).' Plumed Partridge. 



Abundant, range overlaps that of the preceding. 



*Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus Ridgw. Sooty Grouse. 



Numerous, especially in the spruce forests of the higher ridges. 



*Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). Mourning Dove. 



Very common, especially at deer salt licks. 



*Cathartes aura (Linn.). Turkey Vulture. 



Everywhere, collecting by the dozen on dead trees to roost. 



Accipiter velox (Wils.). Sharp-shinned Hawk. 



Young hatched July 1, in nest in small spruce in timber. 



Accipiter cooperi (Bonap.). Cooper's Hawk- 



Trapped in chicken yard. 

 Accipiter atricapillus striatulus Ridgw. Western Goshawk. 

 Male, August 1, 1S99. 



*Buteo borealis calurus (Cass.). Western Redtail. 



Abundant. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



♦Falco sparverius phalaena (Lesson) Desert Sparrow Hawk. 



Not common, 

 *Hali8etus leucocephalus (Linn.). Bald Eagle. 

 Rare. 



*Aquila chrysaetos (Linn.). Golden Eagle. 



Rare. 



Otus asio bendirei (Brewster) California Screech Owl. 



Abimdant. Young hatched June 29. 



*Asio magellanicus subsp. Horned Owl. 



In spruce woods. 

 Glaucidium gnoma californicum (Scl.). California Pigmy Owl. 



Fairly common. Note a prolonged trill. It sometimes' kills' quail, 

 and one was observed being mobbed by a large mixed flock of birds. 



*Ceryle alcyon (Linn.). Belted Kingfisher. 



On Eel river. 



Dryobates villosus hyloscopus (Cab.). Cabanis's Woodpecker. 



Numerous on oaks and spruces. The specimens approach harrisii, 

 but are nearer to hyloscopus. 

 Dryobates pubescens turati (Malherbe). Willow Woodpecker. 



Numerous. Two specimens obtained show a decided tendency 

 toward gairdneri. In one the tertials are unspotted, in the other those 

 of one side are spotted, while those of the other arc not. The supercili- 

 ary stripe and back are pure white. 



Sphyrapicus ruber (Gmel.). Red-breasted Sapsucker. 



More common on the higher ridges. The only specimen obtained 

 is typical. 



Ceophloeus pileatus abieticola Bangs. Northern Pileated Woodpecker. 



Not common. The specimen obtained is small, perhaps indicating 

 a diminution in size, such as we find in the Southern States on the 

 Atlantic coast. It is a female and measures wing 8.75 ins., culmen 

 2 ins. A female from Vernon, B. C, shows wing 9.20, culmen 2.25, 

 while one from Alva, Florida, has wing 8.80, culmen 1.94. 

 *Melanerpes formicivorus bairdi Ridgw. Californian Woodpecker. 



Rather common. 



Colaptes cafer collaris (Vig.). Red-shafted Flicker. 



A few specimens are a trifle darker than other examples in the 

 Academy's collection, but are not saturatior. 



Phalaenoptilus nuttalli californicus Ridgw. Dusky Poor-will. 



In scrub oak brush on high ridges. Two eggs found on a bare rock, 

 July 23. 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



*Calypte auna (Less.). Anna's Huminingbinl. 



Common, 



*Selasphorus alleni Hensh. Allen's Hummingbird. 



Common, 



Tyrannus verticalis Say. Arkansas Kingbird. 

 Numerous, nesting in the oaks, 



Myiarchus cinerascens (Lawr.). Ash-throated Flycatcher. 



Common, in small groves. 



*Sayornis nigricans (Sw.) Black Phoebe. 



Along creek and river. 



Nuttallornis borealis (Sw.). Olive-sided Flycatcher. 



In rather thinly wooded localities, perching on top of small firs. 



Contopus riohardsonii (Sw.). Western Wood Pewe? 



In open timber or clearings. 



Empidonax difficilis Baird. Western Flycatcher 



Occurs with the last. 



Aphelocoma californica (Vig.). California Jay. 



Fairly numerous. 



Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea Grinnell. Coast Jay. 



Range overlaps that of the preceding. All the specimens are very 

 brown on the back, but I attribute this to the wear of the plumage. 

 Altogether the specimens are nearest to carbonacea, though they ex- 

 hibit much variation in the development of the frontal spots. In one 

 they are barely appreciable, in two moderately developed and blue, 

 while in one they are strongly developed and tipped with white, 

 *Corvus brachyrhynchos hesperis llidgw. California Crow. 



Rare. 



♦Sturnella magna neglecta (Aud.). Western Meadow Lark. 



Does not range above Potter Valley. 



Agelaius phoeniceus caurinus Ridgw. Northwestern Redwing. 



Abundant in a small tule swamp, where they return every night to 

 roost and fill the evenings with their notes. 

 Euphagus cyanocephalus (Wagl.). Brewer's Blackbinl. 



Abundant in oaks and swamps, nesting in the former. 



Icterus bullocki (Sw.). Bullock's Oriole. 



Common, nesting in the oaks. 



Carpodaous purpureus californicus Baird. California Purple Finch. 



A few. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



*Carpodacus mexioanus frontalis (Say). House Finch. 

 A few. 



Astragalinus psaltria (Say). Arkansas Goldfinch. 



Common. 



Spinus pinus (Wils.). Pine Siskin. 



Common. Habits similar to the goldfincli. 



*Passer domesticus (Linn.). English Sparrow. 



Reached Potter Valley in 1900. 



*Cliondestes grammacus strigatus (Sw.). Western Lark Sparrow. 



Only in Potter Valley. 



Spizella socialis arizonae Coues. Western Chipping Sparrow. 



Everywhere. 

 Junco oregonus thurberi (Anthony). Thurber's Junco. 



Common, especially on Mount Sanhedrin. 



Melospiza cinerea samuelis (Baird). Samuel's Song Sparrow. 



Nest in swamps. Only one specimen secured which is rather more 

 rusty than samuelis, and possibly inclines toward deonensis. 

 *Passerella iliaoa megarhyncha (Baird). Thick-billed Sparrow. 



Only on the top of Blount Sanhedrin and adjoining ridge, in the 

 brush. 

 *Oreospiza chlorura (Aud). Green-tailed Towhee. 



Associated with the preceding species. 

 Pipilo maculatus megalonyx (Baird). Spurred Towhee. 



Common in brush. Specimens are somewhat intermediate, the bill 

 is distinctly narrower than in true oregonus, and there is more white 

 above and on the outer rectrices. Compared with megalonyx from 

 Arizona, there is not nearly so much white and the brown is decided!}' 

 paler, 



*Pipilo fuscus crissalis (Vig.). California Towhee. 



Common. 



Zamelodia melanocephala (Sw.). Black-headed Grosbeak. 



Very common, and destructive to blackberry crop 

 Cyanospiza amoena (Say). Lazuli Bunting. 



Common. 



Piranga ludoviciana (Wils.). Lousiana Tanager. 



Very common in spruces and oaks. 



♦Hirundo erythrogaster Bodd. Barn Swallow. 

 Only observed in Potter Valley. 




5S4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say). Cliff Swallow. 



Common. 



*Iridoprociie bicolor (Vieill). Tree Swallow. 



A few. 

 *Tacliycineta thalassina lepida (Meams). 

 Common, full-grown young July 22. 



Riparia riparia (Linn.). Bank Swallow. 



On Eel river. 



Vireo gilvus swainsonii (Baird). Western Warbling Vireo. 



Common. 



Vireo solitarius cassinii (Xantus). Cassin's Vireo. 



Common. 



Vireo huttoni Cass. Mutton's Vireo. 



One specimen, July 8. 



HelminthopMla rubricapilla gutturalis Ridgw. Calaveras Warbler. 



Rather numerous. Found nest under the bank of a stream. 



Helminthopliila celata lutescens (Ridgw.). Lutescent Warbler. 



One secured June 5. 



Dendroica sestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warbler. 



Common. 



*Dendroica auduboni (Towns.). Audubon's Warbler. 



Only on Mount Sanliedrin. 



Dendroica nigrescens (Towns.). Black-throated Gray Warbler. 



Common. 



Geothlypis tolmiei (Towns.). Macgilllvray's Warbler. 



Abundant, 



Icteria virens longicauda (Lawr.). Long-tailed Chat. 



Common and often heard singing at night. 



Cinclus mexicanus Sw. American Dipper. 



Very common on Eel river and Thomas creek. Many^ full-grown 

 young in June, and by this month the old birds have' stopped singing, 

 simph' making a loud rattle. 

 *Thryomanes bewicki spilurus (Vig.). Vigor's Wren. 



Fairly common. 



Troglodytes aedon parkmani (Aud.). Parkman's Wren. 



Fairly common. 



Certhia familiaris occidentalis Ridgw. California Creeper. 

 Common. 




1904,] NATURA LSCI ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585 



Sitta carolinensis aculeata (Cass.).ISlender-billed Nuthatch. 



Common. 



Parus gambeli Ridgw. Mountain Chickadee. 



Only on the mountain. 



Paras rufescens Towns. Chestnut-backed Chickadee. 



Common about the ranch. Fom- specimens too worn for satisfactory- 

 comparison. They seem, howcA^er, to be fairly intermediate in char- 

 acter between rufescens and neglectus. 



♦Chamaea fasciata subsp.? Wren Tit. 



A few in the brush. 

 Psaltriparus minimus (Towns.). Bush Tit. 



A few in the manzanita. One specimen obtained seems to be true 

 minimus. 



Regulus satrapa olivaceus Baird. Western Golden-crowned Kinglet. 



Some young observed in the firs on Mount Sanhedrin and a speci 

 men secured. 



Polioptila coerulea obscura Ridgw. Western Gnatcatcher. 

 Not common. 



*Hylociclila ustulata (Nutt.). Russet-backed Thrush. 



Edge of timber~and about the house. 



*Hylociclila guttata nana (Aud.). Dwarf Hermit Thrush. 



In high timber. Sings all day, but the song is not so beautiful as 

 that of the Sierran bird. 



Merula migratoria propinqua Ridgw. Western Robin. 

 Common, especially on ]\Iount Sanhedrin. 

 *Sialia mexicana occidentalis (Towns.). Western Bluebird. 



Common at a little lower elevation, but rare about the ranch. 



*Sialia arctica Sw. Mountain Bluebird. 



Only on Mount Sanhedrin. Xests in holes in trees. 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



NOTES ON A COLLECTION OF CALIFORNIAN MAMMALS. 



BY WITMER STOXE. 



The following list of mammals, obtained by Mr. A. S. Bunnell in the 

 neighborhood of Berkeley and in the Sierras, and now forming part of 

 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, is 

 published as a contribution toward our knowledge of the distribution 

 of the various species and subspecies. The bats have been studied and 

 identified by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. 



Berkeley Collectiox. 



Citellus grammurus beecheyi (Rich.). 

 A series from Berkeley. 



Neotoma fuscipes Baird. 



A number of specimens from Berkeley; two have partly bicolor 

 tails and the color of the adults varies considerably, some being 

 much redder than others. In view of this individual variation it 

 would seem that the N. fuscipes affinis of Elliot and probably some of 

 the other races recently proposed will, with .V. monochroura of Rhoads, 

 be eventually relegated to synonymy. 



Peromyscus gambelii (Baird). 

 A series from Berkeley. 



Peromyscus californicus (.Gambel). 



A number from Berkeley. Through the kindness of Mr. D. G. Elliot 

 I have received from the Field Columbian ]\Iuseum topotypes of his 

 P. dyselius and certain other specimens, including P. hoylii, for compari- 

 son with the above series. The result is that I find in the Berkeley 

 lot typical specimens of both P. californicus and dyselius and others 

 that appear to be ecpially referal^le to either, and my conclusion is 

 that the latter form is leased upon younger or smaller examples of 

 californicus. Rhoads' P. major is likewise a synonym of californicus, 

 as shown conclusively by a comparison of the types in the Academy 

 collection. Mr. Bunnell got no specimens of P. hoylii at Berkeley — 

 that is, none of the form so identified by ^Ir. Elliot {Field Col. Mus. 

 Puhl, Zool. Ser., I, No. 10, p. 206). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Microtus californicus (Peale). 



A series from Berkeley. 



Lepus bachmani Waterhouse. 



A number of specimens from Berkeley and^^Belmont. 



Lepus floridanus audubonii (Baird). 



Two specimens. Belmont, November 28, and Berkeley, August 27. 



Lepus californicus Gray. 



Belmont, November 26. 



Dipodomys californicus Merriam. 

 Belmont, April 2. 



Reithrodontomys longicauda (Baird). 



Berkeley; a series. 



Thomomys bottae CEyd. and Gerv.). 



A series; Berkeley. 



Sorex californicus Merriam. 



One specimen. Berkeley, December 19. 



Sorex montereyensis Merriam 



Several from Berkeley, 



Scapanus californicus Ayres. 



Several from Berkeley and San Francisco. 



Antrozous pallidus pacificus Merriam. 



Berkeley, September 17. 



Myotis evotis (H. Allen). 



Belmont, November 4. 

 Lasiurus cinereus (Beauv.). 



A pair. Berkeley, April 2. 

 Nyctinomus cynooephalus californicus (H. Allen;. 



A series. Belmont. These specimens have the forearm considerably 

 longer than in the Eastern cynocephalus , and differ appreciably in 

 color, though the latter is rather uncertain as few skins of cynocephalvs 

 are available for comparison. A skin of cynocephalus appears decidedly 

 brownish when compared with californicus; the upper parts are mummy 

 brown against seal brown ^^-ith a grayish suffusion in californicus, the 

 under parts are raw umber compared with sepia suffused with ashy 

 gray in californicus. 



The relationship with N. mexicanus (Saussure) it is not possible to 

 ascertain, as too little material is available. 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July; 



Comparative measurements are as follows : 



Average of Average of 



nine speci- five s p e c i - 



mens of cy- mens of cali- 



nocephalus^ fornicus. 



Total length, 99.7 mm. 102.8 mm. 



Length of forearm, 39.5 " 42.6 " 



Canis ochropus Eschz. 



Belmont, March 23, 1900. 



Lynx fasciatus oculeus Bangs. 



Belmont, March 14, 1900. 



SiERRAx Collection. 



These specimens were all secured in June and July, 1898 on a trip 

 to Mount Tallac. Some specimens obtained to the east of the moun- 

 tains as well as a few from western Nevada, are included. 



Ammospermophilus leucurus (Merriam). 



July 18. Gardnerville, Nevada. Rather pinker than any of our 

 leucurus series, but the latter are all winter specimens, which i30ssibly 

 accounts for the difference in tint. 



Colobotis beldingi (Meniam). 



A series from Mount Tallac. 

 Citellus grammurus beeeheyi (Rich.). 



Two females. Mount Tallac, July 4 and 6. A silver suffusion ex- 

 tends across the central dark band on the hind neck and shoulders, 

 nearly obliterating it, thus tending toward fisheri. 

 Callospermophilus chrysodeirus (Merriam). 



A series from Mount Tallac shows great variation in the depth of 

 color on the head and shoulders, 

 Eutamias senex (Allen). 



A series from Mount Tallac, Several of the July siDCcimens show 

 rusty spots in the pelage. 



Eutamias minimus pictus (Allen). 



Gardnerville, Nevada, July 11. 

 Eutamias amoenus (Allen). 



Six specimens. Mount Tallac and Mount Sugar. One taken July 17 

 is bright rusty red on the sides and more red above, being well ad- 

 vanced in the molt to the post-breeding pelage. 



» Bangs, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXVIII, p. 218. 




1904.] ' [natural sciences of Philadelphia. 589 



Sciurus douglassii albolimbatus Allen. 



Two from Pyramid Peak, June 22, and one from Mount Tallac, 

 June 27. 



Sciuropterus alpinus lascivus Bangs. 



Two topotypes. Mount Tallac. July 6 and 8. While these agree 

 with Bangs' diagnosis, they are certainly very close to S. a. californicus 

 Rhoads, of which I have the type before me. 



Arctomys flaviventer Aud. and Bach. 



Two from Mount Tallac, June 13 and July 4. 



Neotoma desertorum Merriam. 



Gardnerville, Nevada. Eight specimens. 



Neotoma cinerea (Ord.). 



A series from Mount Tallac. 



Peromyscus texanus deserticola (Mearns). 



A large series from i\Iount Sugar and Gardnerville, Nevada, seem 

 referable to this race. 

 Peromyscus texanus artemisiae (Rhoads). 



A number of specimens from Slippery Ford, El Dorado county, 

 agree well with Rhoads' type series. 

 Zapus trinotatus alleni Elliot. 



A series from Mount Tallac and Slippery Ford. 



Microtus mordax (Merriam). 



One from Mount Sugar, Nevada, kindly identified by Mr, Vernon 

 Bailey. 



Thomomys monticola Allen. 



Three specimens from Slippery Ford, El Dorado county, one of 

 which is changing from the purplish-brown pelage to a bright yellow- 

 brown. 

 Thomomys aureus perpes Merriam. 



Four specimens from Mount Sugar, Nevada. 

 Lepus arizonae (Allen). 



Gardnerville, Nevada, One specimen, July 12. 



Lepus californicus Gray. 

 Valley Springs, June 2. 



Ochotona schisticeps (Merriam). 



Three from Mount Tallac, June 12, June 26 and July 8. 



Sorex obscurus (Merriam). 



One specimen. Slippery Ford, June 8. 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^jly? 



Myotis yumanensis (H. Allen). 



One specimen, Mount Tallac. July 6. 

 Eptesicus fuscus melanopterus Rehn n. subsp. 



Tt/Pe.— Mount Tallac, California, z. July 10, 1898. No. 11,685, 

 Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila. Collected by A. S. Bunnell. 



General Characters. — Similar to E. fiiscus osceola Rhoads in size and 

 cranial characters, but differing in the darker upper surface, the grayer 

 under parts and the blacker membranes. From fuscus it may immedi- 

 ately be differentiated by the more reddish-brown upper surface and 

 less silvery under parts. 



Distribution. — Specimens from the type locality only have been 

 examined. 



Size. — In general proportions fuscus. f. osccola and /. meIa7iopterus 

 seem almost identical. The average of five specimens of each shows 

 that /. melanopterus has the forearm averaging almost three milli- 

 meters longer than in fuscus, Avhile osceola is considerably smaller than 

 the former, and very slightly less than the latter. 



Color. — Above rather dark cinnamon, lightest on the top of the head 

 and at the shoulders. Under surface reddish wood brown. Mem- 

 branes and face deep blackish. In true fuscus the upper surface is 

 drab, below pale isabella color. In fuscus osceola the upper parts are 

 much the same tint as in melanopterus, but not as rich in tone, while 

 the under parts are more of a yellowish-brown, and not as ashy in tint. 

 The membranes of fuscus osceola are much paler in coloration than in 

 melanopterus. 



Skull. — Identical with the typical form. 



Teeth. — The last upper molar in melanopterus appears to be broader 

 than in fuscus or /. osceola. Otherwise the dental series seem to be 

 identical. 



Remarks. — The form from Mount Tallac is no doubt closest related 

 to /. osceola than any of the form of fuscus. The original series of the 

 former has been examined in this connection, and the differential 

 characters were drawn from it. The relationship with true fuscus 

 is not so close as an examination of a series of thirty specimens from, or 

 within a radius of, twenty miles of the type localit}^ shows. No close 

 relationship exists with E. f. hernarclinus Rhoads, which is a very 

 pale type quite different from any of the forms here considered. From 

 /. osceola the new form may be easily distinguished by the richer 

 color of the upper parts and the more smoky under surface, as well 

 as the more blackish membranes. 



Measurements. — Type : Total length 104 mm., length of tail vei'tebrae 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



591 



40 mm., length of ear 12 mm., length of tibia 17 mm., extent 314 mm. 

 Specimens Examined. — Type and four paratypes (skins). 



Comparative Measurements. 



Average of Average of 



five topo- five topo- 



tjT)es of types of 



fuscus. /. osceola. 



Total length, 114.6 mm. 113.6 mm. 



Length of forearm, 44.2 " 43.2 " 



Length of tibia, 17 " 17.8 " 



Length of tail vertebra, . . . 42.2 " 45.4 " 



Average of 

 five speci- 

 mens of 

 /. melnnop- 

 terus. 



112.6 mm. 

 47 



18 " 

 43.8 " 



Lasiurus borealis teliotus (H. Allen). 



Linden, San Joaquin county, California. 9 . June 2, 1898. 



On comparison with Eastern specimens of borealis, this specimen 

 has the under surface much paler and more of a pale buff tint. This 

 does not seem to have been noticed by Miller (North Amer. Fauna, No. 

 13, pp. 110-111) in summarizing the differential characters of the race. 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Auo". 



ON CERTAIN RHACHIGLOSSATE GASTROPODA ELIMINATED FROM THE 



AQTJILLID^. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. YANATTA. 



Among the smaller species described Iw the older authors as "Tri- 

 tons," and referred by Tryon and others to the subgenus Epidromus, 

 there exists some diversity in shell characters, and a much greater 

 difference in the soft anatomy. Morch many years ago eliminated 

 his Muricid genus Aspella from this assemblage, and Kesteven, in an 

 able and interesting paper, has recently shown an Australian species, 

 Triton speciosus Angas, to belong to Trophon, figuring its operculum 

 and teeth. ^ 



Another Muricid genus is represented by Triton bracteatus Hinds, 

 and its allies, characteristic and widespread littoral Polynesian species. 

 This group may be called 



MACULOTRITON Dall.= 



The shell is acuminate-oblong, longitudinally plicate and spirally 

 tuberculate-lirate, with a smooth trochoidal nucleus of about 3+ whorls. 

 Aperture ovate, the outer lip thick, dentate within, and strengthened 

 by a rounded varix outside, another varix often developed opposite 

 it on the last whorl. Anterior canal open, very short. A small pos- 

 terior sinus is defined by a low callous on the parietal wall. Opercu- 

 lum with basal nucleus. 



1 Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales for 1902, p. 479, fig. 3. 



=> In a paper issued last February, one of the'present authors suggested that 

 Colubraria hchum., which had always been associated with the xlnioglossate 

 Triton, might prove to be Rhachiglossate, and remarked that "a series of An- 

 tillean and Pacific species referred to this division bv Trvon and others of 

 which decapitatus Reeve and bracteatus Hinds are typical, belongs to the Rhachi- 

 glossa, as Mr. Vanatta and the writer will elsewhere show." In a paper on 

 the Tritons and Frog-shells just issued. Prof. W. H. Ball adopts but does not 

 define a fanuly Colubrariidce to include Colubraria, the groups we had indicated 

 as Rhachiglossate and one or two others. He anticipates the appearance of 

 the data promised by us, by giving names to the groups we had indicated as 

 Rhachiglossate. It remains, therefore, for us to substitute in our proof-sheets 

 the names given by Dall for those we had written, and to e.xpose the true char- 

 acters and family relationships of the gastropods in question 



As to the "Family Colubrariida'," the typical genus Colubraria is as yet known 

 by the shell alone. The other groups referred to it by Dall, of which the dentition 

 is known belong without any doubt to the Aluricidce and Buccinidce. Is science 

 advanced by the formation of family groups upon such grounds? 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



The radula is Muricoid, the rhachidian tooth very wide, straight, 

 with a long curved central cusp inserted far forward, and on each 

 side there are two adjacent side cusps, the outer ones larger. Lateral 

 teeth with a single slender cusp. 

 Type, M. hradeatus (Hinds). 

 The shell in this genus has much the appear- 

 ance of the Buccinoid Tritonidea. 



Maculotriton differs from Occndrnt (type a-ina- 

 cca L.) in the form of the central teeth of the 

 radula, which in Ocenchra have a very character- 

 istic structure. The dentition in our new genus 

 agrees with that of Trophori dathratus as figured by y^^ i.— Apex of 

 Troschel f but the conchological characters of these Macxdotriton digi- 



, . , • J ?;' 7 ,. /«/j.S (KVC), V 111 lb. 



Indo-Pacific snails bar then' entrance mto / w])h<ni 

 or fi()n'()(ro})Ii,on. 



Fig. 2. — MacalotrUon, digitalis 

 (Rve.), Hahajima, Ogasawara (87,491, 

 A. N. S. P.). 



Fig_ :i. -^Maculotriton bractcatm^ 

 (HdsO var., Hilo, Hawaii (85,843, 



A. N. s. r.). 



Tlie following species belong to Maculotriton: 

 Maculotriton digitalis (Rve.). Triton (UgitaUs Reeve, Covrh. law., 



TI, PI. 19, fig. 86. 

 Maculotriton hradeatus (Hinds). Triton hradeatus Hinds, Zool. " Svl- 



plmr," Moll., p. 11, PI. 4, figs. 5, 6. 

 Maculotriton hradeatus lativaricosvs (Rve.). Triton lativaricosus 



Reeve, Conch. Icon., II, PL 19, fig. 90. 

 Maculotriton hradeatus longus Pils. See below. 



Some other species will doubtless be added to the group. Canlharus 

 pundicidatus Dkr. as figured by Sturany* has much the appearance 

 of our group, but its dentition is unknown. Cantharus watcrhousim 

 Braz.,-^ recently figured by Hedley,« may also belong here. 



3 Das Gebiss der Schnecken,Tl. n, fig. U. ,, , ■ ni ^o^ K 



* Gastropoden des Rothen Meeres, in Denkschr. dermath.-rmturwiss. CI. der K. 

 AkadderWissenschaften, LXXIV, p. 242 (34), PL 7, fig. 4. Tryon has suggested 

 that Buccinum senate Desh. is identical with jmndiculatus . 



^Proc Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales XXI, 1896, pp. 345, 818. 



«Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, 1899, p. 434, fig. 7. 



38 




594 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 

 BUCCINID^. 



[Aug., 



Another series of species, formerly placed in Triton, proves to belong 

 to the Pisama-Tritonidea group of Buccimdcv; and for them a new sub- 

 genus of Triton idea may he erected. 



CADUCIFER Dall. 



The shell in this group resembles that of Tritonidca in sculptiu-o 

 and characters of the aperture, but it is more slender than in that 

 genus. The teeth resemble those of Euthria Hneata as figured by 

 Troschel. The teeth of the central row have a group of three cusps 

 springing from a short, arcuate basal-plate. The laterals have large 

 curved cusps at the outer and inner margins, with a smaller intermedi- 

 ate cusp near the inner one. 



Type T. fruncata (ffinds). 



iMg. 4. — T. decapitata (Jive.), Mau- 

 ritius (58,058, A. N. S. P.). 



Fig. 5. — T. parva C. B. Ad., Port 

 Antonio, Jamaica (62,041, A. N. S. P.). 



This group comprises the following species: 



^-Tritonidca {Caducijcr) dccapitdta (Rve.). Triton dcnipitdlns ]\v(>., 



Condi,. Iron., II, Triton, PI. 18, fig. 85. 

 Tritonidca {Caducijcr) cylindrica (Pse.). Triton c, Pease, Anicr. 



Jour. Conch., IV, p. 94, PI. 11, fig. 9. 

 ^'Tritonidca {Caducijcr) truncata (Hinds). I'riton trnucatinn. liiiids, 



Zoot. ''Sulphur;' p. 11, PL 4, figs. 9, 10. 

 TrUonidca {Caducijcr) cxirnia (Rve.). Triton cxiniius Ivac, Condi. 



/ro//., II, PI. 18, fig. 77. 

 '^•Tritonidca {Caducijer) jmrra, ((_'. P>. Ad.). Triton /Kirrus ('. B. 



Adams, Contrib. to Conch.., No. 4, j). 59. 

 Tritonidca {Caducijcr) parva intricata (Dall). /V/o.s jxirrus vav. iutri- 



catus Dall, Trans. Wagner hist., Ill, }). lol. 



The dentition has been examined in the three species marked with 

 an asterisk, the third species being the type. The other forms men- 

 tinned liMve been :iddpd frdin tiieir dose cojichnlotrjc; resemblanr^e t*^) 




1904. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



those known to belong together. Probably some other species will 

 be found to belong here. Some of the species lose their early whorls 

 in the adult stage, and are abruptly truncate, an unusual condition in 

 the Buccinidce. The group is not closely related to Phof; (type P. smfi- 

 coftus) or to Nassaria. 



Triton decollatus Sowb., Conch. Icon., Triton, PI. 18, fig. 82, left in 

 E-pulromufi l)y Tryon, is identical with Pifiam'a strigata Pease, Amer. 

 Jour, of Conch., IV, PI. 11, fig. 6, which Tryon correctly includes in 

 the genus Pisania. [Dall has erected a section Toeniola for it in his 

 heterogeneous genus f'oJ)i})r(rria: hut i( clearly belongs to Pisania.] 



Maoulotriton braoteatus longus n miI.si. 



The shell is much more slender iliaii i]f. /^/-oc/m/z/.s-/ gray-white with 

 11 ))and of black-l:)iT)wn s]')ots at the periphery on the tubercles of every 

 rib, another on the base extending into the concavity, and an irregulai- 

 series of more widely spaced spots below the suture. The single varix 

 strengthens the lip. Scnlptnre as in M . t)rartrafiis, the ribs coarser 

 than in M. di<jitalifi. 



I^ength 11.5, diam. 4.7 iimi. 



Tanabe, Kii. 1ypes No. 86,288, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,400 of I\li-. 

 llirase's collection. Also Hachijo-jima, Izu, Hirase, No. 1,393. 



^ Triton bracfeaivs Hinds, Zool. "S^ttphur," p. 1 1 , PI. 4, figs. 5, 6. Tj^e locality 

 Marquesas Islands. A series of several liundred specimens collected tliere by 

 C 1). Voy agrees closely with the type figures in size and coloration. East 

 Indian and some Polynesian specimens are often larger. 




596 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [Aug., 



VAKIABILITY AND AUTOTOMY OF PHATARIA. 



BY SARAH P. MONKS. 



Phataria (Linckia) unifascialis Gray, var. hifascialis is a starfish 

 that is remarkable for the variabihty in the size and number of its 

 rays. Regularity is the exception. In over 400 specimens examined 

 not more than four were symmetrical and no two were alike. Fig. 

 13, PI. XLII, is a nearly symmetrical six-raj^ed star, but one of its 

 rays has been broken off and renewed. 



The plate shows the great variability in size of stars, number of rays 

 and different breaking places. 



The animals vary in size from four to seventeen centimeters. This 

 difference may in some measure be due to age. but there is evidently 

 also considerable difference in size in adult specimens. 



The normal number of rays is five, but some specimens have onl\^ 

 one, while others have four, six, seven, or even nine; four, five or six 

 being most common numbers. Of 248 specimens examined 29 had 

 one ray, 34 four rays, 135 five rays, 44 six rays, 5 seven rays and 1 

 nine raj^s. 



There is a marked irregularity in the size of the rays, for the breaking 

 and renewing occur at all ages, or, at least, at all sizes. Single 

 living rays without any externa! sign of disk are not micuinnion. 

 Twenty-two in a lot of 240 were single. In animals measured the rays 

 varied in length fi'om 22 75 mm., and wei-e in all conditions, from speci- 

 mens which sht)wed by tlie raw siu'face tiiat the l^reakage was recent, 

 through all grades of healing surfaces to stars where new rays appeared 

 as mere buds, to the comet series and to the \'arious rays of adnlt 

 Phataria'. 



Comets are fiv(iuently found; tlicic were foi'ty-oneof tiiein in 240 

 specimens. These are stars with one long I'uy and a nuniln'r of small 

 rays extending from a minute disk. 'J'iiey aw rays that ha\'e made a 

 new body. In PI. XITI, 3-11 are. comets. The long ray is from 

 2-7 cent, in length. ( )n account of their small size the single rays and 

 comets are more easily overlooked by collectors. 



This species of Phataria is mottled reddish-brown and ash color, with 

 the tips of the I'ays and the small new raj's, or new })ortioii of the ray, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENPES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



a brighter and uniform red. It is easy to distinguish new parts by 

 this growth "color," even when the line of breakage is obliterated. 



From the great discrepancy in the size of the rays it follows that one 

 or two rays may be sexually mature, while others are small or even 

 buds. In two indi\aduals sexually mature August 4, 1901, the meas- 

 urements of rays show: &, 77.70.58.20 mm.; 9 , 70.65.52.13 mm. 



This species generally has two or more madreporites and two or 

 more ani. 



There is a great difference in the size of the madreporic body and 

 frequently, but not always, it is larger in large specimens. In 174 

 specimens 6 had one, 154 had. two, 11 had three, 2 had four and 1 

 had five madreporites. 



The ani are only visible in live animals. In 6S specimens 15 had 

 one, 48 had two, 3 had three, 1 had four ani. 



There may be some connection, as has been suggested, between 

 madreporites and breaking plane, but I have failed to find anything 

 satisfactory on the subject. Sometimes the largest ray, or a large ray, 

 is between two madreporic bodies. In 132 specimens 87 long arms 

 and 45 short arms were between the madreporites. 



There is a further irregularity in this species in the place from whicli 

 the reproductive material finds exit. Usually in asteroids it comes 

 from tlie angle between rays, but in Phataria the sperm and ova may 

 come from any part of the inner two-thirds of a ray. 



1 have also found this year (August, 1904) that a Phataria may have 

 two mouths. In fig. 22 there is a mouth at each meeting point (A and 

 B) of the ambulacral furrows. In No. 11 there are also indications 

 of two mouths, and in another specimen I have, but owing to the 

 rareness of the peculiarity I have not wished as yet to d(^stroy these 

 two sijecimens in order to prove the surmise. 



The want of symmetry in tliis Pliataria suggests the belief that the 

 al)ility to bf(nik and regenerate is greater in this species than in ordi- 

 nary Asteroidea, and that it is a common factor in the life of the species. 

 Most starfish can lose their rays and make new ones, but it is a gener- 

 ally accepted opinion among zoologists tliat :i. ray cannot make a new- 

 body unless some portion of the disk is present, in 1\ hi.fascialis (_!r. 

 there is a suggestion that a ray can regenerate a Ixidy, althougli the 

 evidence is inconclusive. The suggestion is seen in the series of figs. 

 1-11 in the plate. ^ 



' Since writing the above in 1901 I have been fortunate in a series of experi- 

 ments extending to the present time, August, 1904, in having a number of single 

 rays, cut at various places, regenerate the disk and other rays. I cut off rays, 

 and in that way the stretching of the pyloric cteca and tlie consequent loss of 




5-'<S rK(K;REi)iN(;s ok tiik acadkmv ok I--^"?;"-, 



This suggestion springs from various facts: The extent of the 

 ''growth color" in comets, the apparent absence of disk in single rays, 

 and the constant place of breaking in the pyloric caeca. 



The breaking place in the skeleton may occiu- near the disk, IVom 

 f)-12 nun. fVom tlie angle of th(^ ray, or at almost any |)oint on the i-ay. 

 I have never seen a break tliat was decidedly inside the disk. 



In 18 S]:)ecimens with '20 regenerating rays, 4 were less than 3 mm., 

 20 wci-c from .T-G mm., and 2 wci'e Hf) and 4") mm. from angle. 



The cause of breaking is obscure. Tnlike Ophiurians th(\y are 

 exceedingly tougli. At touch Phatariti becomes hard, tough and 

 rigid, and wlien it is thus contracted it. requires considerable strength 

 to pull it asunder, :ind it is ;i (ntiiriill mnlter ^^\■^']\ to cut among the 

 ossicles. 



If :iny cxleiiial force br.-irs n pnii in hrcnking the nnimal it is prob- 

 able that the (-reature is surprised when lim)) and relaxed, but 1 am 

 inclined to think that Phdlarid always breaks itself, no matter 

 what may b(^ the im])ulse. They may break wlien conditions are 

 changed, somcd-imes within a few hours after being placed in jars, 

 or a few days, or even not for months. Some never In-eak, but stand 

 all kinds of inconvenience of heat and cold and stagnant water. 



Ther(^ is no season for the breaking, for they are found newly broken 

 in the sea in all seasons of the year. The sensitiveness of this species 

 to our cold spells in winter and hot spells in sununer has put an end 

 to many promising experiments. Whatever may be the stimulus the 

 aninud can and does break of itself. 



Dm'ing the years 1901-04 1 have watche<l more tlian fifty stai'Iish 

 disunite. There is a regulai'ity about the matter that indicates that 

 the breaking is not an accident, or the fancy of a day, l)ut a habit of 

 the species. The breaking is automatic. Exjjeriment confirms the 

 inference that naturally arises on seeing a large number of specimens 

 together that the irregularity is due to an inherent character of this 

 species of Phatarin. The process is deliberate. It is not a breaking in 

 the proper sense of the word, but a drawing or pulling asunder. It 

 requires from half an hour to three or four hours, with resting spells, 

 and the motions arc perceptible. 



The ordinary method is for the main portion of the starfish to remain 

 fixed and passive with the tube feet set on the side opposite the 

 departing ray, and for this ray to walk slowdy away at right angles to 



time for its withdrawal were avoided and after a number of months the ray liad 

 reached the comet stage. In one case two arms started to grow from the "place 

 from which one had been cut. The pliotograpli and statement of facts appeared 

 in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Mav. 1904. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 590 



the body, to change position, twist, and do all the active labor neces- 

 saiy to the breakage. If there are more rays than are needed to resist 

 the pulling arm they take a negative part and position. Frequently 

 they hang limp with their ambiilacrae withdrawn. 



There seems to be the same coordination in this work as in the walk- 

 ing of Asteroidea, for in the six or eight positions taken during the 

 severing of a ray the larger portion of the star always keeps pulling in 

 a direction opposite that of the parting ra}", and not in any, or all, of 

 the fom-, five or six directions of radiation. 



The skeleton breaks in one of two ways. In one way the ray swells 

 about its midpoint and grows smaller at its proximal portion as it 

 pulls away from the body. In the region of strain the ossicles become 

 separated for a space of about 25 mm., so that the white connective 

 and muscular tissues shine between them till finally, just before part- 

 ing, they stand out like beads on a network of shiny white floss. There 

 is much more elasticity in the animal at this time than would seem 

 possible in a starfish. 



Immediately after the break the ossicles recover their compact 

 position and the two parted edges show a more or less jagged surface. 

 This way is rapid, the body wall being pulled apart in from three to 

 thirty minutes after the arm becomes narrowed. 



In the other way of breaking onh^ a small area is affected l)y the 

 strain, and the breaking place shows from the first as a fracture. There 

 is no narrowing of the ray, no strained surface and no gradual separa- 

 tion of ossicles. A small opening, something like a crack, appears on 

 the dorsal side of the ray, and this increases with an uneven edge till 

 tlie l)ody wall is parted around the entire ray. The first visible evi- 

 dence of this kind of division is, either the ray is in a strained ])osition 

 opposite the body or it lo{)s over and hangs limp, letting its weight act 

 as the pulling power. The invarial)le methofl in Phataria I }ui\-e 

 watched, after the body wall l)reaks, is: The arm walks away; the 

 pyloric ca;ca are pulled out of tlie arm, sometimes for 80 mm., and 

 kept v(My tense; then a break occurs in llic tube connecting Hi'' |)\ loiic 

 Cffica with the stomach ; \]w pyloric c;ecaur(> wilhdvawn into the at tu luid 

 the small portion of the liilx* into the l)0(ly and the arm is ivw. The 

 ))arting of the soft tissues is not abrupt, is acconiplislied by simdering 

 strands thread by thread. The pyloric ca-ca and tube are wonderfully 

 elastic. Sometimes the tube is stretched till it appears as the finest 

 thread. 



After breaking the pyloric caeca coil up, and as they are retracted to 

 thoir ordinary ])')sili(in an occasional s|)asiii(>(lic jerk is seen in Ihcni. 




000 riiOCEEDlNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Sometimes tliey are withdrawn immediately, Ijut frequently an arm 

 crawls around for hours, or days, trailing tire cipcuui till it is withdrawn 

 or falls away. 



Probably if the caeca are not taken in within a few hoiu's the nuiscles 

 ose their elasticity and the caeca decay and drop off. Occasionally 

 these organs are left on the disk and sometimes the tube is broken in 

 such a manner as to leave them hanging like two coiled trails. After 

 freeing itself the ray crawls up the glass and stations itself with the 

 broken i)art downward and remains so for a long time. This is the 

 attitude of a single ray till all, or nearly all, the pyloric caecum assumes 

 its noi"mal position. 



After one arm is s(>)jarated, or even wlien it is going, another may 

 break away. 1 saw one animal try to break tlK> disk apart after having 

 lost two rays. It took many positions, strainc^d the (issues and worked 

 for hours, j)ut died before the disk was broken. 



Tlic results of my observations are: The breaking is automatic; and is 

 effected by pulling apart or fracture without strain; there is cijordina- 

 tion of parts in producung the separation; the tissues relax at the plane 

 of rupture; this ])lane may be near the disk or a variable distances 

 from it on the ray; the ])yloric cieca arc always pulled out and nuich 

 stretched; the break of the caecum occurs at the tube connecting ihv. 

 stoma(!h and glandular portion; the ])yloric (;iecum is gc^ierally taken 

 ])m'k into the arm; the severed ray may live more than a week, even 

 mider adverse circumstances, without signs of regeneration; and, 

 from my experiments extending over a ])eriod of three years, 1 have; 

 found that rays cut various distances from the disk make disks, 

 moutlis and new rays in about six montlis. 



1'jXplanation of Plate XIJI. 



The plate shows growth-series and comets; variabihty in number and size of 

 rays, in size of animal and in breaking places ; color distribution and general 

 characteristics of species; and all except figs. 17 and 18 are as they were found. 

 Fig. 1. — Side view, recently healed. 

 Fig. 2. — Oral view, showing growing down of aboral surface. This also shows 



in fig. 7. 

 Fig. 3. — Oral view, new rays and mouths. 

 Figs. 3-10.— Comets. 



Fig. 11. — Eight new rays, probably two mouths. 

 Figs. 12 and 15. — Five-rayed, showing new arms as "buds." 

 Figs. 14 and 16. — Four-rayed; fig. 16 shows color arrangement. 

 Figs. 17 and 18. — Cut '03 and died '04, a new ray on fig. 17 and a new body on 



fig. 18. 

 Fig. 19. — A large Phataria with 2 madreporites, A and B. 

 Figs. 13 and 20. — Twenty-three six-rayed. 

 Fig. 21. — Shows four distinct break planes and has only one good ray. This 



is a type of the thick specimens. 

 Fig. 23. — Is a type of the thin species. 

 Fig. 22. — Shows two mouth places, A and JJ. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXI. 



A3- 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXII. 



,3 ^-^ ^C 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXni. 



iU' IC' ic' ^, 



£g" 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904 

 o3 '.^" 



PLATE XXIV. 



ME ME' 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904 



!C' 



>':' ,y^^i> ':''%^"ia- ;a- 



ed' 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXVI. 



iC" 



£ci"' 



ein" 



^a 



ea"" 



»s<Z"' 



^d"^' 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXVII. 



£-<>'■' ■''' tO >^'2 



^a'^'^ 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





FROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



ic"' 



tc" 



ac'" 



eb'"' 



£C"" 







b"" 



slf'"- 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904 

 £<2" 6S. 



PLATE XXIX. 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904 



PLATE XXX 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXI. 



SS. ^ 



/ &t Af- 



Slc.K, 



a.Cr. 



AnC 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXII. 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXIII. 



ShCr. 



h- S8. 



6hG: 



SU. 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXV. 



■'"' MR.Ft. 



CASTEEL ON FIONA MARINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXVI. 





11 12 



GULICK. FOSSIL LAND SHELLS OF BERMUDA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



MOORE. NEW POLYCH^^TA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXVIII. 



MOORE. NEW POLYCH^^TA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XXXIX. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA • PELECYPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XL 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA: PELECYPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLI. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE MARINE MOLLUSCA : PELECYPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLII. 



MONKS ON PHATARIA. 





1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



THE COMPARATIVE AGE OF THE DIFFERENT FLORISTIC ELEMENTS OF 

 EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. 



BY JOHN W. HARSHBERGER, PH.D. 



The historic element must be considered in a phytogeographic study 

 of any country. Many questions concerning the present distribution 

 of plants depend upon the character and extent of the past distribu- 

 tion of the species of any region or formation. The degree of invasion 

 of new species into a region is determined by the presence or absence 

 of vegetation. If vegetation is present, then the botanist is compelled 

 to account for its presence by a consideration of the physiographic 

 history of that part of the earth's surface, the association of species 

 and the probable origin of these species, whether indigenous or derived. 

 The determination of the indigenous and derived species of a formation 

 or larger division is of the utmost importance, as it enables us to retrace 

 the steps by which the formation has reached its present condition 

 and association of species, and to reconstruct formations that have 

 long since disappeared. 



The methods which must be adopted in scrutinizing the flora of a 

 country are several: 



1. The botanist must determine the past and present physiography 

 of the region concerned. 



2. He must determine, if possible, the geologic time at which the 

 recorded physiographic changes took place. 



3. He must recognize the indigenous species by eliminating the 

 derived. 



4. A study of the distribution of species will enable him to determine 

 to some extent the age of the different fioristic elements, and the appli- 

 cation of the following criteria will also aid him in the solution of 

 questions such as are considered here. 



a. Location of greatest differentiation of type. 



b. Location of dominance or great abundance of individuals. 



c. Location of synthetic and closely related forms. 



d. Location of maximum size of individuals. 



e. Location of greatest productiveness and its relative stability. 

 /. Continuity and convergence of lines of dispersal. 



g. Location of least dependence upon a restricted habitat. 

 39 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



h. Continuity and directness of individual variations, or modifica- 

 tions radiating from the centre of origin along the highways of dispersal. 

 i. Direction indicated by biogeographic affinities.^ 



5. Old regions, botanically speaking, may be determined where the 

 number of specific forms of single genera is small, and new regions may 

 be determined where the number of species of single genera is ordinarily 

 very large. 



6. Drude's classification of endemic plants, as corresponding and 

 as relict, is of great assistance to the botanist in determining the age of 

 floristic elements. Plants are corresponding when the original con- 

 tinuous area of a variable species has been interrupted in such a way 

 as to form several smaller areas occupied by subspecies or new species, 

 while relicts are those species originally of extensive distribution able 

 to maintain themselves in a limited area only on account of changed 

 conditions of life. Having enunciated these general principles, I will 

 endeavor to apply them in the determination of the age of the different 

 floristic elements of eastern North America. 



All of eastern America north of the great terminal moraine which 

 marks the southern boundary of the great ice sheet, with the exception 

 of the nunataks, has been tenanted by plants which have migrated 

 into the territory abandoned by the great continental glacier. Geolo- 

 gists believe, from evidence afforded by the time that it has taken for 

 the river to cut the gorge at Niagara, that 10,000 or 15,000 years have 

 elapsed since the close of the glacial period. If their deductions are 

 sound, then the flora of the northern part of eastern America cannot 

 be older than 15,000 years at the outside. Some of its elements may 

 be much older, and we have reason to believe that many boreal plants 

 existed as such on the nunataks, which were unglaciated areas above 

 the great ice sheet. The first wave consisted of the distinctly glacial 

 flora, which skirted the border of the ice sheet. The second wave, 

 younger as a floristic element of the North, consisted of boreal plants, 

 many of which, as bog plants, tenanted the bogs and margins of the 

 glacial lakes that were formerly much more abundant in the North 

 than at present. These bog and tundra types pushed early into the 

 barren ground left by the retreating ice. The tundra was closely 

 followed by the coniferous forests on the western and eastern sides of 

 the glaciated areas and these trees constitute a third floristic element, 

 much younger in point of the time in which they have occupied the 

 North. These trees, and those forming a still younger element, sur- 

 rounded the bog plant societies which were trapped by the surround- 



' Adams, Chas. C, Biological Bulletin, III : 122. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



ing tree vegetation, and as the bog was gradually transformed by bio- 

 logic influences into firmer ground gradually encroached on the bog 

 plant associations. Present bog habitats are continuations of similar 

 habitats which existed in early postglacial times, when tundra 

 conditions and tundra vegetation were dominant.^ The fourth 

 element just mentioned consisted of deciduous shrubs and trees, 

 oaks, hickories and the like, which at present are south of the 

 great coniferous belt of forest. In the East, among the highlands, 

 exceptional circumstances were afforded for the preservation of the 

 northern forms. 



The flora of Mount Washington is perhaps an exception to this. 

 During the glacial period it was a nunatak, and during this time it was 

 tenanted by such plants as Sile^ie acaulis L., Arenaria groenlandica 

 Sprang., Geum radiahnn Michx., Solidago virga-aurea L. var. alpina 

 Bigel., Prenanthes bootii Gray, Cassiope hypnoides Don, Bryanthus 

 taxifolius Gray, Diapensia lapponica L., Oxyria digyna Hill, Salix phy- 

 licifolia L., Salix uva-ursi Pursh, Salix herbacea L., Phleum alpinum 

 L., Lycopodium selago L., etc., which have remained as permanent 

 tenants of this mountain. If w^e take Mount Washington as a 

 mountain, the summit flora is older than that of the lower alpine 

 slopes of the mountain above timber-line, and the flora, therefore, of 

 these slopes is in turn older than that of such gorges as Tuckerman's 

 Ravine, Huntingdon Ravine and Great Gulf, which probably sup- 

 ported local glaciers for many centuries after the great ice sheet had 

 retreated from the Presidential Range. 



Mount Katahdin, 161 miles northeast of Mount Washington, has a 

 less number of alpine plants than that mountain, and most geologists 

 believe it to have been buried entirely beneath the glacial^ ice sheet. 

 If that is so, then the alpine flora of Mount Katahdin is, as a floristic 

 element, much younger in point of time than that of Mount Washing- 

 ton. The same differential arrangement of the plants on Mount 

 Katahdin is found as on Mount Washington. The place where the 

 boreal flora, upon the retreat of the continental ice sheet, encroached 

 upon Mount Katahdin is determined largely by the physiography of 

 the mountain. The glaciers occupying the various basins of the 

 mountain retarded the re vegetation of the mountain, but with a 

 favorable opportunity the encroachment perhaps began from the 

 southwest and west. This idea seems to be confirmed by the present 

 distribution of the spruce and fir which ascend higher on this side 

 and their apparently greater age. As to the east side of the mountain, 



^'Transeau, E. N., Botanical Gazette, XXXVI: 401. 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



and in particular the basins, it seems probable that the great basin^ 

 was first tenanted by plants, and that the North Basin opposed this 

 migration a much larger time for the reason that this basin, which 

 presents a scene of desolation, was the seat of a local valley glacier 

 which was, perhaps, the last to disappear. As a consequence, the 

 basin presents an appearance even more xerophytic and alpine than 

 some of the upper parts of the mountain itself. The pucker bush 

 (Krummholz) reaches here an unusual development, with the trees 

 lying in most places prostrate and gnarled and twisted to a high degree. 



The swamp societies of the northern America stand in contrast to the 

 bog societies made up of more southerly forms, and must be considered 

 to be the normal hydrophytic vegetation of present climatic condi- 

 tions. The swamps of the North have had a much later origin than the 

 bogs, for we find that if the depressions provided with water have ex- 

 isted since the days of the tundra they may show a bog flora to-day; 

 if they are of recent origin the plants will correspond to the normal 

 swamp plants of the present climatic conditions. 



Another interesting problem which presents itself is that of the 

 presence of typical seashore plants on the coasts of the Great Lakes. 

 Such plants as Ammophila arundinacea Hast., Sabbatia angularis Piu'sh, 

 Lathyrus 7naritimus Bigel., Hudsonia tomentosa Nutt., Cakile americana 

 Nutt., Hibiscus moscheutos L., Gerardia purpurea L., Euphorbia polygo- 

 nifolia L., Myrica cerifera L., Strophostyles peduncularis Ell. are found 

 not only on the shores of the Great Lakes, but some of them near the 

 Lake of the Woods. The most satisfactory explanation seems to be 

 that in post-glacial times the valleys of the St. Lawrence, Hudson, Lake 

 Champlain, and probably also Lakes Ontario and Superior, were then 

 occupied by the sea, because of the northeasterly depression of the 

 land. During this period of submergence the typical seashore plants 

 gained access to the interior of the continent. 



The country south of the great ice sheet shows some interesting 

 problems of geographic distribution in line with the subject of this 

 paper. The northward extension of the pine barren flora on Long 

 Island and Staten Island is a case in point.* 



The soil of the region is generally sandy, but is occasionally more 

 firm where strata of clay approach and form the surface. The geo- 

 logical formations to the south and southeast of a line drawn from a 

 point below Long Branch to another near the head of Delaware Bay 



^ Harvey, L. H., "A Study of the Physiographic Ecology of Mount Katahdin, 

 Maine," University of Maine Studies, No. 5, December, 1903. 



^Cf. N. L. Britton, on the "Northward Extension of the N. J. Pine Barren on 

 Long and Staten Islands," Bulletin Torrey Botanical Club, VII, 81, July, 1880. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



are Tertiary, while those to the north of it are Cretaceous. The Ter- 

 tiary soils extend southward along the Atlantic to Florida. As the 

 soil over both the Cretaceous and Tertiary is composed of similar 

 materials, it is impossible to say, from surface indications, where one 

 ends and the other begins. We will deal with the flora of the 

 northern extension of these sandy stretches of Cretaceous age. On 

 Staten Island these strata are exposed in its extreme southern 

 portion. They doubtless extend over the entire southern and eastern 

 sections, but are mostly covered by a layer of material of variable 

 thickness derived from the glacial drift. On Long Island, the great 

 terminal moraine occupied a position marked by a range of hills extend- 

 ing throughout its whole length at an average distance of ten miles 

 from the Atlantic. South of these hills sandy plains prevail, the 

 material composing them having been formed partly from the modified 

 drift of the hills, partly from the underlying Cretaceous strata. 

 Those species detected on the Cretaceous soils of Staten Island, and 

 not on the drift, are thirty-four in number: Magnolia glaiica L., Hud- 

 sonia ericoides L., Ascyrum cnix-andrece L., Arenaria squarrosa Mich., 

 Polygala lutea L., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., Desmodiuvi Icevigatum 

 D. C, Desmodium viridiflorum Beck, Rubus cuneifolivs Pursh, Cra- 

 taegus parvifolia Ait., Eupatorium rotundifolium L., Astey- nemoralis 

 Ait., Aster concolor L., Chrysopsis mariana Nutt., Gnaphalium pur- 

 pureum L., Gaylussacia dumosa J. and G., Andromeda mariana L., 

 Kalmia angustifolia L., Ipomoea pandurata ^leyer, Phlox suhulata L., 

 Asclepias^ohtusijolia ]\Iichx., Eupliorhia ipecacuanha; L., Quercus nigra 

 L., Quercus prinoides Will., Quercus phellos L., Spiranthes simplex Gray, 

 Juncus scirpoides Lam. var. macrostemon, Xyris flexuosa Muhl., Cy- 

 perus cylindricus N. L. B., Stipa avcnacca L., Glyceria ohtusa Tin., Pani- 

 cum verrucosum Muhl., Andropogon macrourus Michx., Lycopodium 

 inundatum L. var. higelovii Tuck. Of these the following four have 

 been detected in Suffolk County, Long Island : Desmodium viridiflorum 

 Beck, Rubus cuneifolius Pursh, Ipomoea pandurata Meyer, Phlox subu- 

 lata L. In addition to the above list, however, the following sixteen 

 additional species have been detected in Suffolk county, Long Island : 

 Drosera filiformis Raf ., Ascyrum stans Michx., Eupatorium hyssopifolium 

 L., Eupatorium leucolepis T. and G., Eupatorium album L., Aster 

 spectabilis Ait., Solidago puberula Nutt., Chrysopsis falcata Ell., 

 Helianthus angustifolia L., Coreopsis rosea Nutt., Utricidaria subulata 

 Le Conte, Cupressus thyoides L., Juncus pelocarpus E. Meyer, Xyris 

 caroliniana Walt., Eleocharis melanocarpa Torr., Sporobolus serotinus 

 Gray. Thus it appears that thirty-four of these characteristic pine 




^06 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



barren 'plants grow in the southern part of Staten Island, and that 

 forty-six of them have been detected in Suffolk county, Long Island. 



It would seem that these species have a tendency to follow the course 

 of the two more recent geologic formations throughout their whole 

 extent along the Atlantic coast. Another fact which stands out promi- 

 nently in this connection is that not a single one of the above-mentioned 

 plants, growing, as we have seen, along the edge of the glacial drift, 

 is native of Europe, but belong to a true American flora, which had its 

 origin in the southern part of the continent and migrated northward 

 into Staten Island and Long Island at the close of the great ice age. 

 In contrast to this fact we have another one, equally prominent, and 

 that is, that of the species of plants growing on the morainic material 

 about one-third are common to northern Europe and America, thus 

 pointing to a common origin of each in the territory now occupied by 

 the ice and snow of the Arctic regions. The flora north of the morainic 

 line in Staten Island and Long Island clearly antedates in point of 

 occupancy of the country the more southern and American pine barren 

 flora, wliich migrated northward at a date subsequent to the migration 

 of the flora with strong European affinity. 



Another interesting illustration of the historic factors instrumental 

 in plant distribution is afforded by the peculiar flora of the Kittatinny 

 or Shawangunk mountains of northwestern New Jersey, This moun- 

 tain chain forms a wall of almost constant altitude, averaging over 

 1,200 feet in height, along the eastern side of the Delaware river from 

 Port Jervis to the Delaware Water Gap. Its summits and western 

 slopes are composed of a coarse or fine, very hard silicious conglomerate 

 or sandstone, with little soil but that derived from the limited disin- 

 tegration of these rocks, and it is therefore highly silicious. While 

 the mountain sides are extensively glaciated there is very little glacial 

 drift on the ridge. 



On these mountains exist a number of plants which are also found 

 in great numbers in sandy soil along the Atlantic coast. Among the 

 species which are thus noteworthy, as discovered by N. L. Britton, are: 

 Juncus greenii Oakes and Tuckerm., Solidago puberula Nutt., Orontium 

 aquaticum L., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., Lespedeza hirta Ell., Lupinus 

 perennis L., Quercus ilicifolia Wang., Corema conradii Torrey. At 

 Culver's Gap were found by Britton : Polygala polygama Walt., Gerardia 

 pedicularia L., Lechea racemulosa Michx., all abundant in sandy soil 

 along the coast, and Prumis pumila L. At Sunfish Pond, northwest 

 of the Water Gap, occur Juncus militaris Bigel., Lycopodium inun- 

 datum L., Vibwnium nudum L. While all along the mountains grow 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 607 



Aster linariifolius L., Quercus ilicifolia, Gaylussacia resinosa |Tott and 

 Gray, G. frondosa Torrey and Gray, Vaccinium vacillans Sol., Epigcea 

 repens L., Gaultheria procumbens L., Cassandra calyculata Don and 

 Rhododendron viscosum Torrey. Another peculiarity is the substitu- 

 tion of Pinus rigida ^lill on the mountains for the Piniis slrobus L. 

 of the surrounding country. 



The ridges of the Green Pond system, known at Greenwood Lake as 

 Bearfort and Bellvale mountains, and in New York as the Skimne- 

 munk, have a somewhat similar summit flora, consisting of Quercus 

 ilicifolia Wang., Solidago puberula Nutt., Tephrosia virginiana Pers., 

 Lespedeza hirta Ell., Arctostaphylos uva-ursi Spreng, Aster linariifolius 

 L., various huckleberries, blueberries and other sand plants. 



The reason for the somewhat remarkable similarity of the pine 

 barren and summit mountain floras is usually attributed to the simi- 

 larity of the soil on the mountains to that of the plains bordering the 

 coast. It is probably true that the plants occupy these areas because 

 they have adapted themselves to growing in soils of silicious sands, 

 but to say that the soil is the prime factor in their distribution is put- 

 ting the case too strongly. The writer believes, from an investigation 

 that he has made of the problems involved, that the flora of the moun- 

 taiixs is peculiarly an endemic one, showing relict endemism, and that 

 the flora of the pine barren is a derived one, and is an illustration of 

 Drude's principle enunciated above. The crest of the Kittatinny Moun- 

 tains represents the level of a plain that existed prior to the great period 

 of erosion which carved out the mountain ranges and has been several 

 times elevated and depressed. During the period of its more extensive 

 plain character, the plants above mentioned were distributed over 

 the area now represented by the crests of the Shawangunk Moun- 

 tains in New Jersey and the Skunnemunk Mountains in New 

 York. With the wearing away of the plain this more ancient flora 

 remained in a relict form on the summits of the mountains mentioned. 

 This antedated many years the upheaval of the New Jersey coast plain, 

 which was, after its appearance above the surface of the sea. an open 

 field for the migration of plants from nearby formations. The pioneers 

 into the elevated coastal plain were those species nearest at hand and 

 most mobile and, by reason of occupancy of a similar soil, well adapted 

 to meet the new conditions of environment. If we apply these princi- 

 ples to the prolslem in hand, we naturally reach the conclusion that 

 certain plants of the coastal flora are derived from the formations near- 

 est at hand which present similar environmental conditioas, and are, 

 therefore, for the coastal region comparatively new, so that the summit 




608 .PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Sept., 



flora of the mountains may be looked upon as relatively older in point 

 of time than that occupying the territory along the sea coast. 



An interesting confirmation of this position is found in a study of 

 the succession of the floras on the Pocono Mountain plateau, following 

 the destruction of the original forest by lumber operators. The 

 original vegetation of this plateau consisted, as far as I have been able 

 to determine, of four elements, viz. : a forest of pitch pine, Pinus rigida 

 Mill., which covered the looser morainic material of the great terminal 

 moraine in the eastern and southern parts of the plateau; the broad- 

 leaved deciduous forest with its oaks and associated species on the 

 eastern slopes and edge of the tableland ; the chestnut and black locust 

 forest which occupied Laurel Ridge along the western rim of the plateau, 

 and a forest of white pine with a thicket of Rhododendron maximum L. 

 beneath, mixed in many places with the black spruce, Picea nigra Link, 

 the red maple and other plants characteristic of the Catskill mountains 

 and farther north, grading over to a hemlock forest in the region of 

 Tobyhanna. The open sphagnum bogs culminated in the presence 

 of the larch, Larix americana Michx., with which were associated 

 Kalmia glauca Ait., Ledum latifolium Ait., Rhododendron rhodora Don, 

 and other northern plants. With the destruction of the white pine, 

 hemlock and pitch pine forests, the vegetation of this tableland has 

 undergone an entire change. The succession of the species has not 

 been worked out in detail, but what has been observed is instructive. 

 The botanist is impressed by the general appearance of the landscape. 

 The flora over the eastern half of the i^lateau in aspect resembles that 

 of the pine barren regions of southern New Jersey, from which the 

 original pitch pine and Jersey pine have been cut. A study of the 

 species shows that this appearance is due to the close similarity of the 

 flora in the plant species w^hich constitute the tw^o regions. We have 

 an instructive example of mass invasion of such plants as Quercus 

 ilicifolia Wang., Pinus rigida Mill., Gaylussacia resinosa Torr. and 

 Gray, Vaccinium vacillans Solander, Epigcea repens L., Gaultheria pro- 

 cumbens L., Rhododendron viscosuni Torr., Kcdmia angustifolia L., 

 Lilium philadelphicuni L., Amianthium musccBtoxicum Gray, Lyco- 

 podium inundatum L., etc., from the morainic hills westward into the 

 region occupied by the white pines. We naturally inquire from what 

 locality the pitch pine formation has proceeded, and it seems to me we 

 are forced to conclude that this association of species has been derived, 

 not from the barrens of New Jersey, but from the nearby mountains 

 northwest of the Delaware Water Gap which, as previously mentioned, 

 support such a flora. This relict flora on the Kittatinny and other 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 609 



highlands has been under iini;siial stress of circiims-tances, and when 

 more favorable, but on the whole similar, edaphic conditions were 

 supplied, a mass invasion from these mountain highlands took place 

 at two different and widely divergent periods of time in two directions. 

 After the uplift of the Jersey pine barrens region, the nearby flora of 

 the upland plateaus being edaphically better adapted to the new region, 

 supplied the barren ground with a vegetable covering. Similarly, when 

 the glaciers retreated a mass invasion of pitch pines and associated 

 species moved from the unglaciated Kittatinny Mountains on to the 

 sandy gravelly soil of the great moraine, and when the lumbermen 

 disturbed the forest these plants, adapted to growing in sandy soils 

 and exposed to xerophytic conditions, supplied the constituent ele- 

 ments of the present flora in the greater part of the eastern half of the 

 plateau. 



A consideration of the strand flora of New Jersey, upon which I have 

 spent considerable study, reveals the fact that the time element is 

 important in an explanation of the distribution of the seashore plants. 

 If we contrast the character of the association on the northern and 

 southern shore of New Jersey, we find that the formations on Barnegat 

 beach, for example, are usually open, while those on Wildwood beach 

 are closed and have culminated in the forest type of vegetation. This 

 argues for a greater age of the strand flora of Wildwood, as compared 

 with that, for example, at Sea Side Park in the north. This conclusion 

 is substantiated by the fact that the bays behind the sandy sea islands 

 are converted into salt marshes in the south, while in the north they 

 are wide and still open bays of brackish or salt water. Physiographi- 

 cally and botanically the coast line from Bay Head south to Ocean 

 City is younger than the coast south of the latter place extending to 

 Cape May. 



The latest periods of submergence and uplift had a powerful influ- 

 ence on the distribution of sea-coast species. The present distribution 

 of the swamp rose-mallow, Hihisms moschevtos, in the Atlantic coastal 

 plain illustrates this. The plant normally occurs in brackish marshes 

 from Massachusetts to Florida and Louisiana and on lake shores in 

 saline situations locally in the interior to western Ontario. When it 

 occurs in fresh-water swamps it is reasonably certain that these swamps 

 represent a converted salt marsh present during a former time of sub- 

 mergence. New Jersey shows this best. During the Pensauken sub- 

 mergence southern central New Jersey was an extensive sea island sepa- 

 rated from northern New Jersey by Pensauken Sound. Hibiscus 

 moscheutos in its present distribution in New Jersey follows the former 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Sept., 



shore line of that ancient island, for it occurs in the salt marshes of the 

 coast, on both banks of the Delaware river to the head of tide water, 

 and also in fresh-water marshes along the New York Division of the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad between Trenton and Newark, the roadbed 

 between these cities being laid upon the geologic site of the Pensauken 

 Sound. 



South of New Jersey the region, including southeastern Pennsylvania, 

 may be divided historically according to the age of the flora into several 

 well-marked divisions. 



1. The flora of the Southern Appalachians and its northeastern 

 extension into southern and southeastern Pennsylvania, The facts 

 presented in two former papers-^ all argue for the great antiquity of 

 the flora of North Carolina and southeastern Pennsylvania, because 

 this flora, in all probability, represents the more or less modified de- 

 scendants of that characteristic flora which in later Eocene or Miocene 

 time extended to high northern latitudes. 



2. The flora of the coast plain occupied by the long leaf pine with its 

 associated species, which probably represent the ultimate stages of 

 successions initiated at the time of the final elevation of the sea bottom 

 along the coast line. These plants probably entered the elevated 

 coastal region by a mass invasion from a circimiscribed area contiguous 

 to the Atlantic shore line, for it has been established that contiguous 

 vegetation furnishes 75-90 per cent, of the constituent species of an 

 initial formation. The reason for this is to be found not only in the 

 fact that adjacent species have a much shorter distance to go and hence 

 will be carried in greater quantity, but also in that species of the forma- 

 tions beyond must pass through or over the adjacent ones. In the 

 latter case, Clement states that the "number of disseminules is rela- 

 tively small on account of the distance, w^hile invasion through the 

 intermediate vegetation, if not entirely impossible, is extremely slow, 

 so that plants coming in by this route reach the denuded area only to 

 find it already occupied."*^ 



3. Plants of probable Neotropic origin which have, according to 

 Kearney, in all likelihood made their first appearance in the Appalachian 

 region in geologically very modern times, probably after the close of 

 the so-called glacial epoch. 



* Harshberger, J. W.", "An Ecologic Study of the Flora of Mountainous 

 North Carohna," Botanical Gazette, XXXVI, 241-258, 368-383, 1903, and "A 

 Phytogeographic Sketch of Extreme Southeastern Pennsylvania," Bulletin 

 Torrey Botanical Club, XXXI, 125-159, March, 1904. 



* Clements, Frederick E., "Studies of the Vegetation of the State, III. — 

 The Development and Structure of Vegetation," Botanical Survey of Nebraska, 

 1904. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



4. A relict flora of a former widespread plateau region, similar to 

 the one mentioned for northeastern Pennsylvania, in which we find a 

 close similarity between the flora of some of the higher mountain sum- 

 mits and the flora of the coastal plain. We have previously mentioned 

 in the physiographic changes which have taken place in this mountain 

 region an explanation of such peculiarities of distribution. The pres- 

 ence of Hudsonia montana Nutt. on the summit of the Table Rock is 

 probably thus explained, for Table Rock represents an undenuded 

 remnant of a former jDeneplain. It is likely, therefore, that Hudsonia 

 montana Nutt. was once more extended in its distribution, but has been 

 isolated by the erosion of the plain on which it formerly grew in abun- 

 dance. The presence of LeiophyUum buxifolium Ell., Xerophyllum 

 asphodeloides Nutt., Amianthium rnusccBtoxicum Gray on the mountain 

 summits and on the coastal plain is also similarly explained. 



5. The distribution of plants in the southern extremity of Florida is 

 an interesting confirmation of the historic development of a flora. 

 Seven plant formations can be recognized, viz.: (1) The sea-strand 

 formation; (2) The mangrove swamp formation; (3) The everglade for- 

 mation; (4) The grassland (" prairie " ) formation; (5) The savanna 

 formation; (6) The pine-land formation; (7) The hummock-land for- 

 mation. Historically the sea-strand formation and the hummock-land 

 formation are the oldest, floristically speaking. The strand flora, con- 

 sisting of such plants as Uniola paniculata, Panicwn amarurti, Ipoincea 

 pes-caprce, Batatas littoralis, Iva imhricata, Cakile maritima, Agave 

 decipiens (ontropic section), has existed as an element of the flora of 

 peninsular Florida since the land was elevated above the sea, and 

 perhaps was derived from an earlier seashore flora which existed along 

 the shore of the mainland or the coasts of the larger and more elevated 

 sea islands. 



Nearly all the tropic species recently added to the flora of the United 

 States were discovered in or about the hummocks, which are essentially 

 duplicated by similar formations in the West Indies. The total area 

 of the hummock-land is relatively insignificant when compared with 

 the pine-lands, yet the flora, as shown in the enumeration below^, is 

 as rich, if not comparatively richer; 



Pine-lands, 43 per cent. 



Hummocks, 42 " 



Everglades, 15 " 



The hummocks consist of isolated groups of hardwood trees, shrubs 

 and vines. These hummock formations with an overlying soil thicker 

 than the pine-lands, due without doubt to the accumulation of vegetal 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



detritus, vary in size from an acre to many hundred acres, and are 

 scattered as islands in the everglades and pine forests instead of sur- 

 rounded by the ocean, as they formerly were before the sea bottom be- 

 tween them became dry land by elevation. The trees, shrubs and 

 woody vines harbor an almost incredible growth of plants of various 

 categories. The growth of epiphytes is especially striking, for in num- 

 erous cases the tree trunks and branches are completely clothed with 

 air plants, and so prolific are the orchids and bromeliads that many 

 individuals are forced to growth on the ground and on the neighboring 

 pine trees.' Here occur the great majority of flowering plants now 

 known to be common both to the West Indies and the mainland of 

 North America. As the rock of New Providence Island, of the Bahama 

 group, is essentially identical with that of the Florida south of Miami, 

 and as there are many trees and shrubs common to the two regions, as 

 well as to Cuba, while many species are endemic to each of the three 

 regions, we are forced to conclude from the evidence that the flora 

 gives that geologically and to a certain extent floristically the hummock- 

 lands formed originally part of the Antillean region. The hummock- 

 lands, perhaps, represent part of the ancient system of Keys which 

 existed at the time when the Gulf Stream left the American Mediter- 

 ranean through a channel which existed across the northern half of 

 Florida. It was when these islands formed an extended archipelago 

 coextensive with the Bahamas that the hummocks were occupied by 

 their present flora, which, therefore, shows the closest relationship to 

 that of the nearby Bahama islands. With the elevation of the land 

 through the epeirogenic movements of the earth's crust, through the 

 agency of coral polyps, vegetation, ocean and wind currents, the Gulf 

 Stream was directed into its present channel and the sea islands which 

 now exist in south Florida in the form of hummocks were connected 

 by dry land or by partially submerged banks to form the present 

 peninsula of Florida. 



With the appearance of level plains by the removal of the shallow 

 sea over a sandy bottom, the isolated trees and herbaceous plants 

 which associated together constitute the savanna formation appeared 

 and clothed the ground. Imperceptibly these savannas were trans- 

 formed by the appearance of trees into the pine-land formation. This 

 formation is characterized by a scattering growth of Pinus heterophyUa 



' Consult the articles by J. K. Small, and N. L. Britton, in Journal New York 

 Botanical Garden, III, No. 26, February, 1902; IV, No. 39, March, 1903; V, No. 

 51, March, 1904; V, No. 5.5. July, 1904; V, No. 56, August, 1904, to which the 

 writer is indebted for many facts herein set forth under the new cloak of general- 

 ization. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCE3 OF PHILADELrHIA. 613 



and numerous shrubs, shrubby herbs and herbaceous perennials, 

 together with a few annuals. Four species of palms belonging to the 

 genera Sabal, Serenoa, Coccothrinax, and the Sago palm, Zamia 

 floridana, are prominent representatives of the pine-land formation. 

 These pine-lands are light and any, with comparatively thin soil. 

 The growth of timber is scattered and the plants found in this for- 

 mation are not duplicated in the West Indies. Relatively, then, the 

 flora of the pine-land formation is younger than that of the hummocks, 

 and may be older or younger than the everglade formation, according 

 to whether this association of species encroached on elevated plain 

 land or whether it captured grassland or an everglade formation. 

 The evolution of the pine woods may be represented for sake of 

 clearness diagrammatically as follows : 



Very Shallow Water 



Dry Elevated Sea Bottom Swamps 



I 

 Savanna Grassland 



Pine Woods 



The culmination from either condition has been a pine forest. 



The everglades, then, historically speaking, may be older than the 

 pine woods, or they may be younger. WTiatever their position in point 

 of time, they cover an area of about one hundred miles wide and perhaps 

 one hundred and fifty miles long, the elevation being about eighteen 

 feet above sea-level. This area consists of an extended saw-grass 

 swamp traversed by winding river channels, and covered with scattered 

 hmnmock-lands. Its flora consists of grasses, sedges and other herba- 

 ceous plants, among which are many aquatic and mud-inliabiting plants. 

 The vegetation of the everglades is of a more northern character than 

 that of the hummock-lands. 



The mangrove formation represents an important element in the 

 flora of southern Florida. The mangrove swamps are particularly 

 abundant along salt or brackish shores and along the sea islands, the 

 so-called Florida Keys.^ Their vegetation is confined almost exclu- 

 sively to the mangrove trees and such few Tillandsias and orchids as 

 grow upon their branches. Frequently on the borders of these swamps 

 occurs a large showy species of AcrosticJium with leaves often six to 

 eight feet long. The area shut off from the sea by the fringe of man- 



* Phillips, O. P., "How the Mangrove Tree adds New Land to Florida," The 

 Journal of Geography, II, 1-14, January, 1903. 




614 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



groves becomes dry ground and eventually grassland (in Florida 

 " prairie" ). 



The results of this survey as to the southern extremity of Florida 

 may be arranged below: 



Ancient Strand Flora 



Ancient Sea Island Flora 



Northern Element 



Plain Flora 



Swamp Flora 



Savanna Flora -^ 



Grassland 



Present Strand Flora 



\ > 



Pine-land Flora 



Present Hummock Flora 



Lastly are the ruderal plants and weeds that, introduced by the 

 hand of man, have become established in America. The history of 

 the introduction and spread of many of these plants is known to an 

 exactness, whereas many have appeared and become established the 

 history of which is involved in considerable doubt. The time which 

 has elapsed since the advent of these outsiders does not exceed two or 

 three hundred years, and yet in that time many American varieties 

 of common European plants have by mutation or otherwise arisen 

 to demarcate the American from the European forms. 



I have endeavored to present in this paper the fact that the compo- 

 nent elements of the flora of eastern North America have had an his- 

 toric development, and I have attempted to give the methods of 

 determining their relative or comparative age, as well as the philo- 

 sophic reasons underl3ang their distribution. The outcome of these 

 observations may be tabulated and arranged as follows, the top of 

 the table representing the oldest elements of our flora: 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



615 



fH 



f=^ 



;z; 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW LAND SNAILS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY and Y. HIRASE. 



In January of this year collecting was begun in Tokuno-shima, 

 Osumi, in the Riukiu chain, by ^Ir. Nakada, whose laurels as a collector 

 have been won by his able campaigns in the Islands of Izu (1903) and 

 other parts of the empire. His work was continued in the islands 

 southward, Okinoerabu-shima and Yoron-jima, completing the chain 

 from Oshima to Okinawa or Riukiu. Kume-jima, Riukiu, an islet west 

 of Okinawa, was then visited. No land mollusks had been collected 

 from any of these islands ; and Mr. Nakada's results, as they are stud- 

 ied, are found to add enormously to our zoogeographic data on the 

 Riukiu group. The Miyakojima subgroup of the Southwestern islands 

 was also further explored, and some remarkable species of genera or 

 subgenera new to the fauna were obtained, such as Pledopylis hirasei, 

 a species of Chinese type, and Diplommatina vespa P. and H. 



The Clausiliidce obtained by ]\Ir. Nakada greatly enlarge our knowl- 

 edge, about doubling the number of Riukiuan species, and adding 

 several new endemic groups, especially to the Zaptychoid phylum. 



Meantime Mr. Azuma has been collecting in southern Kyushu, 

 chiefly in Satsuma and its islands, particularly the Koshikijima group. 

 His results are good, although, as was expected, the number of new 

 species discovered was not great. Some unexpected forms were found, 

 such as Sitala rimicola Bens., a Himalayan species, and Clausilia 

 azumai, a fine snail belonging to the Riukiuan group Luchuphcedusa . 



A collector has also been sent to Ivita-iwo-jima, of the Sulphur 

 group, near Ogasawara-jima, but the results were disappointing. It 

 seems to be, from the faunal indications, a very recent volcanic island. 

 It will be remembered that Mr. Hatai lost his life a few years ago in an 

 attempt to collect upon these remote islets. 



The present paper deals only with the new species and subspecies 

 received, exclusive of the Clausiliidce. 



CYCLOPHORID^. 



Japonia tokunoshimana n. sp. 



Shell turbinate-conic, umbilicate, olive-brown, somewhat shining. 

 Sculpture of close fine growth-strise, and fine spiral striae with much 

 larger threads at intervals, becoming much weaker on the penultimate 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



and earlier whorls. Whorls 4^, the last tubular, bearing a series of 

 flat paddle-shaped cuticular processes at the shoulder and another 

 at the periphery. Aperture circular, the peristome simple, interrupted 

 a short distance where it touches the previous whorl. 



Alt. 3.75, diam. 4 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,512, A. X. 8. P., from No. 1,206 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is a little larger than J . barbata Old. of Oshima, Osumi, 

 and has not the two more conspicuous spiral ridges described for that 

 species. 



The flat spatulate cuticular processes upon the last whorl are very 

 readily lost, and probably never perfectly preserved in adult shells. 



Alycseus purus n. sp. 



Shell much depressed, oblong in contour, Avhite, the first whorl rufous 

 tinted. Whorls 3 J, convex, those of the spire nearly smooth, the last 

 whorl very closely, finely and delicately rib-striate as far as the neck, 

 which is decidedly constricted and smooth, the whorl enlarging and 

 striate again beyond it. The last half of the last whorl is much en- 

 larged and straightened, making the umbilicus oblong. The sutural 

 tube is long. The aperture is oblique, circular; the peristome is thin, 

 with a small delicate collar close to the edge. 



Alt. 1.7, diam. 3 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,683, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,219 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The sculpture is much finer than in ^1. tancgashimcc, and the neck is 

 more constricted. It is more depressed than most Japanese species^ 

 and it is more oblong in outline, viewed from above. 



Alycaeus tokunoshimanus n. sp. 



Shell depressed, light red. Whorls 3^, the first smooth and glossy,, 

 the following ones nearly smooth to the last whorl, which is very densely 

 and finely rib-striate, the strise weak or wanting on the neck. The 

 last half of the last whorl is much enlarged and somewhat straightened,, 

 moderately constricted at the neck, enlarged beyond it and deeply 

 deflexed. The aperture is oblique, circular; the peristome continuous^ 

 thickened outside and bevelled to the edge. 



Alt. 2.3, diam. 3.7 mm. 



Tokuno.shima, Osumi. Types No. 87,505, A. N. S. P., from No. 931a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This shell is sculptured much as in .4. purus, and is nearly as de- 

 pressed as that species, but it is larger, colored, less oblong in peripheral 

 40 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



outline, with the neck nearer the aperture and the peristome stronger. 

 The sutural "tube" is long, as in A. purus. 



Alyoseus laevicervix n. sp. 



The shell is rather depressed, light olive greenish. Whorls 3^, the 

 first projecting and smooth, the rest finely rib-striate and latticed by 

 lower, finer spiral strioe. The last half of the last whorl is swollen, with 

 closer rib-striaj, the spirals becoming obsolete. The sutural "tube" is 

 short and irregular. The neck is moderately contracted, and smooth 

 to the aperture. Aperture oblique, circular, the peristome somewhat 

 thickened, with a low thin rib close to the edge. 



Alt. 3.7, diam. 4 nun. 



Kuchinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,699, A. N. 8. P., from 

 No. 1,280 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to A. satsumanus, but it is larger, with a shorter 

 sutural "tube," a smooth neck, and more prominent spiral striae. 



Pupinella oshimae tokunoshimana n. subsp. 



The shell is dirty white, more slender than P. oshimce, and umbilicate, 

 the umbilicus half covered by the lip, and bounded by a very strong 

 keel. The upper or anal notch of the aperture is narrow, straight and 

 oblique, its two bounding walls of nearly equal length, while in P. 

 oshimce the outer lip of the canal is decidedly shorter than the inner, 

 and the canal is thus enlarged and opens more backwards. The parietal 

 callous and that at the opening of the anal canal are less extensive than 

 in P. oshimce. 



Length 9.3, diam. above aperture 4, greatest diam. 5 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,506, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,214 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Cyolotus nudus n. sp. 



Shell openly umbilicate, lusterless, whitish under a very thin slightly 

 yellov\-ish cuticle, readily lost, with an opaque whitish sutural margin 

 from which short whitish streaks radiate. The surface is but slightly 

 roughened by growth-lines, and an intermediate whorl of the spire is 

 very finely, closely striate spirally; the last Ih whorls hardly or not 

 showing spirals. The spire is small and acutely conic. The first 1^ 

 whorls are brown, project nipple-like, and are distinctly tilted. Whorls 

 41 to 4^, very convex, the last tubular, barely in contact with the pre- 

 ceding at the apertiu-e. The aperture is circular, vertical, the peris- 

 tome simple. The operculum is whitish and lodges just within the 

 peristome, is concave externally, with a sunken smooth nucleus and 

 a'spiral lamella closely re^•oh■ing on the other whorls. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



Alt. 6, diam. 7.5 mm. 



Alt. 5.5, diam. 7 mm. 



Miyakojima, Riukiii. Typos No. 87,633, A. N. S. P.. from Xo. 1,296 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species has a more elevated spire than the related C. minutus 

 of Formosa. 

 Cyathopoma iota n. sp. 



Shell minute, umbilicate, conic, thin, yellowish corneous, subtrans- 

 lucent. Surface glossy, nearly smooth. Whorls 3^, very convex, 

 tubular, parted by a deep suture, the last whorl at the aperture barely 

 in contact with the preceding. Aperture slightly oblique, circular, 

 the peristome thin and simple. The operculum lodges a short distance 

 within, is externally somewhat concave, cream-colored, concentrically 

 delicately striate, with a large somewh^^t sunken glossy translucent 

 central spot. 



Alt. 1, diam. 1.3 mm. 



Kumejima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,698, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,292 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is intermediate in contour between the Japanese C. 

 micron Pils. and C. innocens Sykes of Ceylon. It is much more ele- 

 vated than the former species. This species and Cyclotus micron belong 

 evidently to the subgenus Jerdonia of the genus CyatJiopoma, the oper- 

 culum being discoidal and somewhat biconcave, as in Cyclotus. Both 

 Cyathopoma and Jerdonia are Indian groups, not hitherto reported 

 from China or from any part of the Japanese Empire. 



DIPLOMMATINID^. 



The Diplommatinas of Japan and the Riukiu Islands are very closely 

 related to those of China. Besides Adelopoma,^ two subgenera or 

 sections of Diplommatina are represented. 



I. — Constriction at the beginning of the last whorl, in front, or on the 

 latter part of the penultimate whorl on the right side ; a palatal 

 plica and a parietal or "spiral" lamella developed in front of 

 the constriction, to which the columellar lamella also extends. 



Section Sinica Mlldff. 



II. — Constriction in the first part of the penultimate whorl, on the 



front or left side; the columellar lamella therefore nearly two 



whorls long; a palatal plica but no parietal lamella developed. 



Section Angigaster, type D. vespa P. and H. 



Sinica- includes all of the known Japanese and Riukiuan species 



1 Nautilus, XVII, p. 59. 



2 Vide Jahrb. D. Malak. Ges., XII, 1885, p. 369. The type of Sinica is Diploma 

 matina sculptilis MUdff., from the Chinese province Guang-dung. 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



except D. vespa. which represents a line of differentiation parallel to 

 the Bornean Paradianda. 

 Diplommatina tosana n. .<p. 



Shell imperforate, cylindric, the upper third conical, tapering; light 

 red, darker red toward the apex, paler and sometimes more of a yellow 

 tint toward the last whorl; closely, finely and delicately rib-striate 

 throughout, the striae becoming more widely spaced on the cone, the 

 first whorl smooth. Whorls Qh, the last rounded below, ascending in 

 front. The weakly marked constriction near the end of the penulti- 

 mate Avhorl is close to the peristome, being immediately behind it. The 

 aperture is round-ovate; peristome narrowly refiexed, strengthened by 

 a "collar" or lamella a short distance behind it. The parietal callous 

 extends nearly to the suture above. The columellar lamella is strong. 

 Palatal plica long, visible through the parietal callous, and not 

 extending beyond it. 



Length 3, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Nogawa, Tosa. Types No. 84,190, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,026 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The constriction and palatal plica lie farther back than in D. cassa, 

 which is also a more slender species. 

 Diplommatina tosanella n. .■>]). 



This form is very similar to D. kyushucnsis in contour and appear- 

 ance. The last two whorls are dull red, the rest of the spire l^right 

 orange-red. Sculpture of fine close rib-strise on the last two whorls, 

 while on the spire the intervals between riblets are about twice as wide. 

 Whorls nearl}' 6+, convex, the slight constriction being in the middle 

 of the front side, visible externally as an obliciue light line; the last 

 whorl is rounded below. Aperture nearly circular, the peristome thick- 

 ened outside. Parietal callous rather small, not approaching the 

 suture above. The columellar tooth is small. Palatal plica short, 

 wholly to the left of the parietal callous and situated as high as its 

 upper edge. The columellar and spiral lamellte and palatal plica are 

 low inside, not nearly so strong as in D. kijushuensis. 



Alt. 2.6, diam 1.3 mm. 



Nogawa, Tosa. Types No. 87,642, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,026a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



D. cassa is decidedly more cylindrical and more evenly striate than 

 this species. 



Diplommatina gibbera n. sp. 



Shell cylindric below, the upper half tapering in a rather long straight 

 cone ; varying from dull red with an orange lip to nearly white, with the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



lip pale yellowish Very delicately and evenly striate throughout. 

 Whorls 6^, convex, the last whorl very obtusely angular at the base, 

 very much swollen on the ventral face to the left of the parietal callous. 

 It is distinctly constricted in front, at or shortly in front of the inser- 

 tion of the outer lip. The aperture is very irregular in shape, the 

 peristome strongly thickened outside, bevelled and obtuse, the l^ack 

 of the lip-thickening lacing white. Columellar margin straightened, 

 vertical, the columella bearing a strong tooth. Parietal callous ex- 

 tending in a rather narrow lobe nearly to the suture. Palatal plica 

 long, in large part overlaid by the parietal callous. 



Alt. 3, diam. 1.6 mm. 



Nomimura, Tosa. Types No. 87,643, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1,027 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is readily distinguished by the conspicuous swelling of 

 the last whorl in front of the aperture. The tapering portion of the 

 spire is longer than in most allied species. 

 Diplommatina goniobasis n. sp. 



Shell cylindric l;)elow, tapering and conic above, dull red. Surface 

 finely and evenly striate. Whorls 6j, convex, the last ascending in 

 front, becoming biangular on its last half, the angles obtuse, one near 

 the suture, the other bounding the flattened basal area, the surface 

 between the angles being flattened. The constriction is at the termi- 

 nation of the outer lip. The aperture is very irregular in shape, the 

 lip heavily thickened with a wide but rather thin external rib. Colu- 

 mella vertical, short, with a very strong horizontal lamella. The pala- 

 tal plica is short and wholly covered by the parietal callous, which 

 extends nearly to the suture. 



Alt. 2.7, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Irazuyama, Tosa. Types No. 87,646, A. X'. S. P., from X'o. 1.178 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also a variety from Onomura, Tosa (l,027o). 



This species is very distinct by its irregular aperture, strong colu- 

 mellar lamella and peristome, and the biangular last whorl. It is 

 related to D. gibhera. 

 D. g. onoensis n. subsp. 



The specimens from Onomura, Tosa, are dirty yellowish in color, 

 with the two angles of the last whorl less strong and the constriction a 

 little more receding, so that it falls behind the insertion of the outer 

 lip. 

 Diplommatina kyushuensis n. sp. 



Shell obesely fusiform, the penultimate whorl largest, those above 

 tapering regularly, the last whorl also smaller. Pale yellowish-brown, 




622 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



sometimes whitish. Sculpture of very fine, low and delicate vertical 

 striae, obsolete on the front of the last whorl, and often largely lost by 

 wear. AYhorls 6^, convex, the constriction at the beginning of the last 

 whorl, above the insertion of the outer lip; last whorl rounded below. 

 Aperture vertical, subcircular, the peristome reflexcd, thickened within, 

 continuous in a delicate callous with raised edge across the parietal 

 wall; somcAvhat angular at the junction of the columellar and basal 

 margins. Columellar lamella strong at the mouth and opposite the 

 palatal plica. Palatal plica strong and long, its inner end only under 

 the parietal callous. Spiral lamella long but rather low. 



Alt. 2.7, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Kagoshima, Satsuma. Types No. 81,896, A. N. S. P., from No. 702 

 of ]\lr. Hirase's collection. It has been sent also from Kami-Koshi- 

 kijima, Satsuma; Watarimura, Kij^oragi and Fukuregi in Higo; Sa- 

 ganoseki, Bungo; and Obi, Huga. 



We formerly considered these forms to belong to D. cassa; but 

 further study has shown them to be shorter and less cylindric than 

 cassa, with a more ventrally situated and more distinct constriction. 

 D. cassa has not yet been found in Kj^ushu, and D. ky^isJmeyisis has 

 not occurred in Hondo or Shikoku. The form from Kami-Ivoshiki- 

 jima, Satsuma, is slightly smaller and more slender. Most species of 

 these islets show more or less modification. 

 Diplommatina tokunoshimana n. sp. 



Shell conic above, cylindric below, dull reddish, rather closely, finely 

 and delicately striate. Whorls 6^, moderately convex, the last rounded 

 beloAv, strongly ascending in front. Constriction slight, just in front 

 of the upper insertion of the peristome. Aperture circular, with a 

 notch at the base of the columella, the peristome thick, thickened out- 

 side. Columella straight. Columellar tooth strong. Parietal cal- 

 lous large, approaching the sviture above. Palatal plica moderately 

 long, situated under the parietal callous. 



Length 3.3, diam. 2 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,649, A. N. S. P. , from No. 1 ,217 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Very peculiar by the spout-like base of the aperture, unlike any 

 other species of Japan or the Riukiu Islands. 

 Diplommatina ventriosa n. sp. 



Shell obese-fusiform, the penultimate whorl large and swollen, the 

 spire conic, last whorl smaller; dull reddish-brown; evenly, closely 

 and almost obsoletely striate. Whorls 6^, very convex, the last well 

 rounded. Constriction slight, situated in front of the insertion of the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



outer lip. Aperture subcircular. the peristome expanded, thickened; 

 baso-cohmiellar margin rounded. Cohunellar tooth small. Parietal 

 callous rather large. Palatal plica long, partially covered by the cal- 

 lous. 



Length 2.8, diam. 1.6 mm. 



Length 2.8, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Kumejima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,629, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,288 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Related to D. oshimcv, but the whole shell is ^yider and the back of 

 the last whorl is convex, not flattened and tapering as in that species. 

 Diplommatina kumejimana n. sp. 



The lower half of the shell is C3dindric, the upper half tapering in a 

 long cone; dull red; evenly, delicately striate. Whorls 7, convex, the 

 last whorl convex below, ascending in front. The constriction is at 

 the end of the penultimate whorl, close behind the upper insertion of 

 the peristome. The aperture is circular; peristome thickened and 

 reflexed. Columella arcuate, with a small columellar tooth. Parietal 

 callous approaching the suture above. Palatal plica moderately long, 

 wholly under the callous. 



Length 3, diam. 1.4 mm. 



Kumejima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,654, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,288a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Related to D. oshimce, but the sculpture of the spire is finer, and the 

 constriction is behind the peristome, while in D. oshimce it is in front, 

 above the aperture. 

 Diplommatina lateralis n. sp. 



The upper half of the shell is long-conic, the lower half cylindric, 

 but the penultimate whorl is contracted on the right side. Dull 

 brownish-yellow, evenly, delicately striate. Whorls 7^ to 7f, convex, 

 the last well rounded, somewhat ascending in front. Constriction 

 lateral, on the penultimate whorl some distance behind the lip. Aper- 

 ture subcircular, the lip thickened, expanded and reflexed. Columella 

 bearing a quite small tooth. Parietal callous not extensive. The pala- 

 tal plica is concealed by the suture, from its recession following the 

 constriction. 



Length 3, diam. 1.6 mm. 



Miyakojima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,636, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,298 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is well distinguished b}^ the lateral constriction. 

 Diplommatina immersidens n. sp. 



Shell convexly tapering above the penultimate whorl, dull red, 

 evenly sculptured with delicate, not close rib-striiie. Whorls 7|, convex 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^f'Pt., 



the last rounded below. Constriction slight, immediately in front 

 of the upper insertion of the outer lip. Aperture subcircular, the peris- 

 tome thin and reflexed, a little thickened within. Columellar tooth 

 hardly visible in a front view, stronger within. Parietal callous exten- 

 sive. Palatal plica long, partly under the callous, partly projecting 

 beyond it. 



Length 3.7, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Miyakojima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,655, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,299 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is the largest Sinica of the Riukiu Islands which we have yet 

 obtained. The columellar tooth is very small in a front view. 

 Diplommatina vespa n. sp. 



Shell oblong, the upper third conic, the rest sulieylindric; diill red 

 or ashy brown. Sculptured with delicate rib-strite which are fine and 

 close on the cylindric portion of the shell, much more widely spaced 

 upon the conic spire, the first Ih whorls smooth. Whorls 8 to 8^, very 

 convex. The penultimate whorl abruptly contracts in front or on the 

 left side and continues narrow to the end, the last whorl being of nor- 

 mal proportions and very convex throughout. The aperture is sub- 

 circular, the lip broadl}^ expanded and reflexed. The columellar la- 

 mella is rather small at the mouth, but larger inside. It ascends nearly 

 two whorls, to the constriction, where there is also a rather small 

 palatal plica, but no parietal spiral lamella. 



Length 3.9, diam. 1.8 mm. 



Length 3.7, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Length 3.5, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Miyakojima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,634, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,297 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The closing apparatus recedes much more deeply in this than in 

 other Japanese Diplommatinas, but it does not lie cjuite so far back as 

 in a Bornean group of which D. everetti Smith is typical, called Paradi- 

 ancta, and subordinated to the genus Diancta by von Mollendorff and 

 Kobelt, whose classification of the Diplommatinidce shows some strange 

 groupings for which no reason is apparent. The section Metadiancta 

 Mlldff., based upon a series of Diplommatinas from the northeastern 

 frontier of India, has also some similarity. These forms as described 

 by Godwin- Austin are characterized bj' the position of the constriction, 

 which is on the side, near the end of the penultimate whorl, behind the 

 peristome, as in D. lateralis and kuyncjimana, described above, but 

 differing from them in the deficient internal armature. 



It seems that in various places forms of Diplommatina have inde- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



625 



pendently arisen having a tendency toward recession of the closing 

 apparatus. 



HEIilCINID^. 



Helicina verecunda degener n. subsp. 



Similar to H. verecunda Gld., Except that it is decidedly smaller and 

 somewhat more elevated. 



Alt. 3.2, diam. 4.3 mm. 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87.686, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,255 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Yoronjima. Osumi (1,255a). 



HELIOID^. 



Eulota (.Egista) friedeliana var. humerosa n. n. 



This name is to replace that of E. friedeliana goniosoma P. and H., 

 preoccupied. 

 Eulota (JEgista) omma n. sp. 



The shell has the general shape of E. ocidus (Pfr.). It is yellowish 

 olivaceous-brown, densely obliquely striate above, more glossy and 

 smoother below, the first two whorls nearly smooth. Whorls 7, but 

 •slightly convex, enlarging slowly and regularly; the last whorl slightly 

 deflexed in front, obtusely angular at the periphery, the base very con- 

 vex. The deep and ample umbilicus is nearly one-third the diameter 

 of the shell; its last half-whorl enlarges more rapidly. The aperture 

 is rather small, hardly larger than the umbilicus, oblique, rounded, the 

 preceding whorl excising about one-fourth of the circle. Peristome 

 narrowly refiexed throughout, the columellar margin very steeply 

 ascending, hardly dilated. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 17 mm. (Taramajima, Xo. 87,574). 



Alt. 11.5, diam. 19 mm. (Taramajima, fossil. No. 87,575). 



Alt. 10, diam. 18 mm. (Riukiu, No. 83,917). 



Taramajima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,574, A. N. S. P., from No. 998a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also found fossil in sand at the shore. No. 

 ^7,575 (Hirase's No. 9986). 



This species was at first thought to be the Formosan jEgista suh- 

 chinensis 'Nevill' Mlldff.,^ but further stud}' of the description and 

 the finding of a Formosan specimen in the collection of the Academy 

 have shown that material differences exist l^etween the Formosan and 

 Riukiuan forms. In subchinensis the columellar margin slopes to 

 the insertion instead of rising almost vertically as in E. omma — much 

 more steeply in fact than in E. ocidus, which is the most closely related 

 species. 



3 Jahrb. d. D. Malak. Ges., XI, p. 355, PI. 7, fig. 8. 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



In each of the three lots examined a small form occurs with the 

 larger shells. Three of these smaller specimens measure: 



Alt. 7.5, cliam. 14.4 mm. ; whorls 6. 



Alt. 9, diam. 15.5 mm.; whorls 6| (fossil). 



Alt. 8, diam. 14.5 mm. ; whorls 6. 



The color also in the small form is concentrated, being of decidedly 

 darker shade than in the larger shells. 



The names E. omma and E. oculus allude to the appearance 

 of the basal aspect of the shell — a dark pupil-like umbilicus surrounded 

 by a brownish band, like the iris of the eye. 

 Eulota (Euhadra) okinoerabuensis n. sp. 



Shell very narrowly umbilicate, moderatel}^ depressed with conoidal 

 spire. The specimens are fossil. Avhite with a narrow reddish band 

 above the periphery. The surface in the best preserved specimens 

 is glossy, sculptured with weak Avrinkles along growth-lines, and very 

 fine, faint, close spiral strisp. Whorls about 5f, slowly increasing, 

 convex, the last rounded below and at the periphery, very slightly 

 deflexed in front. The aperture is slightly oblique, lunate, the lip thin, 

 narrowly expanded, slightly refiexed, dilated at the axis, half covering 

 the small umbilicus. 



Alt. 21, diam. 27.5 mm. 



Alt. 19.5, diam. 26 mm. 



Okinoerabu-shima, Osumi. in sand on the seashore. Types No. 

 87,542, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 1.252 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a small, elevated member of the group of E. mercatoria, as 

 yet only found fossil. The ver}' small umbilicus and elevated spire 

 give it something the appearance of the large form of E. submandarina 

 of Yakushima. 



Eulota callizona montivaga n. subsp. 



This race resembles E. c. minor Gudc in general appearance, but it 

 is more conic, less globose. The aperture consequently is lower and 

 wider. 



The color is (1) either yellow, with a light reddish-brown peripheral 

 belt, a darker streak at the back of the lip, and some tinting with the 

 same color around the lunbilicus, or (2) greenish-yellow, with three 

 blackish-brown bands, the first one very narrow, bordering the suture, 

 the second wide, at the periphery, and the third is a circular area cover- 

 ing the greater part of the base. The lip is purplish in all specimens 

 seen. 



Alt. 23, diam. 28.5 mm. 



Alt. 19, diam. 24 mm. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



Irazuyama, Tosa. Types No. 85,740, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,100 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Eulota (Acusta) despecta ikiensis n. subsp. 



A small, rather thin, globose race, less depressed than E. d. kikaiensis, 

 thinner, and with no roseate streaks, the peristome not pink-lipped, 

 though the columella is pale flesh-tinted. It is weakly, irregularly 

 wrinkle-striate, showing traces of spiral striation in places; pale yel- 

 lowish-corneous or greenish, with narrow yellowish-brown streaks, 

 the early whorls delicateh^ flesh-tinted. 



Whorls 5 to 5^. 



Alt. 15, diam. 15 mm. 



Alt. 14, diam. 14 mm. 



Yawata, Iki. Types No. S4,SS1, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,087 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Eulota (Acusta) despecta prsetenuis n. subsp. 



This form is very thin and light, like E. sieholdiana, from which it 

 differs by the decidedly open umbilicus (like that of E. despecta) and 

 by being distinctly decussate throughout, with close spiral strise 

 crossing the oblique, irregular growth-wrinkles. Whorls 5^. Color 

 light greenish-yellow or yellowish-green. 



Alt. 20.5, diam. 25 mm. 



Alt. 21, diam. 23.5 mm. 



Kuchinocrabu-shima, Osumi. Types No. 87,559, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 394a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is one of those perplexing forms which unite characters of two 

 very distinct species. It might be treated as a subspecies of E. sie- 

 holdiana, of E. despecta, or a distinct species, according to the weight 

 one places upon this or that feature. Indeed, one of us had provision- 

 ally ranked it under sieholdiana as a variety. Its geographic location 

 is between the areas of the two Japanese Acustas — E. sieholdiana rang- 

 ing from Kyushu north, and E. despecta inhabiting the Riukiu Islands. 



Eulota nioyaka n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, globose-depressed, thin, glossy, pale yellowish- 

 corneous, faintly marked with fine growth-wrinkles. Spire low conoid ; 

 whorls 5, convex, the last rounded peripherally, convex below, 

 slightly descending in front. Aperture roundly lunate, oblique, the 

 peristome white, thin, expanded and narrowly reflexed. 



Alt. 6, diam. 8.6, width of umbilicus 1.5 mm. 



Alt. 6, diam. 8 mm, 



Alt. 5.8, diam. 7.6 mm. 




628 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



Toba, Shima. Types No. 87,656, A. N. S. P.. from No. 5a of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection. 



This is a larger species than E. commoda A. Ad., with less conic spire 

 and better developed peristome. 

 Trishoplita nitens n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, depressed, with very low conoid spire, obtusely 

 angular periphery and convex base; thin, glossy, rather bright green- 

 ish-yellow, the earlier Avhorls denuded and bluish-white. Surface 

 weakly marked with wrinkles along growth-lines, and showing some 

 very faint spiral striae on the base. Whorls 5, slowly increasing, the 

 last wide, slightly defiexed in front. Aperture oblique, oval-lunate, the 

 peristome thin, narrowly expanded. 



Alt. 6.5, diam. 11.5, width of umbilicus 2 mm. 

 Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,598. A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,231 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A very bright, glossy and depressed species, of a genus not before 

 reported from any island south of Kyushu. 

 CMoritis obscurus n. sp. 



Shell umliilicate, somewhat depressed, the spire low-conoidal; thin, 

 and dull, dark brown. Surface lusterless, slightly striate and indis- 

 tinctly punctate in places, the points bearing no hairs 

 and rather irregularly spaced. Whorls nearly 5, the last 

 about double the width of 

 the preceding, very slightly 

 descending at the aperture, 

 rounded at the periphery. 

 Aperture broadly lunato- 

 oblique, the peristome thin, 

 l^rown, narrowly expanded 

 y / throughout, more broadly 



dilated at the umbilical 

 insertion. 



Alt. 9, greater diam. 13, lesser diam. 

 11.3 mm.; umbilicus 1.8 mm. wide. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Type No. 

 1,227 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A small, dull species, known by 

 a single specimen, but very unlike 

 any other Riukiuan or Japanese species 

 yet known. The convex spire and 

 expanded Hp, as well as the very obscure punctulation, are its more 

 prominent characteristics. 



(^ 



Surface X 2.5 ; one square 

 millimeter indicated. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



The surface under a strong magnification is seen to be very densely, 

 microscopically, irregularly granulate (this sculpture too small to be 

 shown in the figure), and set with low, rounded or oblong grains 

 arranged more or less obviously in oblique lines, in most places less 

 regular than where the figure was taken, on the upper part of the last 

 whorl, a short distance behind the aperture. The whitish apical whorl 

 seems to be slightly rugose, but not punctate. 



Chloritis tosanus osumiensis n. subsp. 



This form agrees in shape and color with C. tosanus, but it differs 

 in being smaller, with the hairs a little more widely spaced. The spire 

 is somewhat convex, with the apex turned down; whorls 4; lip thin 

 and sharp. 



Alt. 9, diam. 14.5 mm. 



Koneshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,339, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,248 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Koneshima is a place on the western coast of Osumi, on Kago-shima 

 Bay, about opposite the southern extremity of Satsuma. 



Ganesella tokunoshimana n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicate, globose-conoidal, thin, the outlines of 

 the spire convex, apex very obtuse. Yellow, with (1) four black-brown 

 bands, a narrow^ one below the suture, a wide one at and above the 

 periphery, a narrower band midway between peripher}^ and umbilicus, 

 and a fourth band inside the umbilicus, or (2) very pale reddish-brown 

 fading to yellowish near the suture and on the base, with a narrow 

 light band at the periphery. 



Surface glossy, the first 2 whorls smooth ; then faint growth-lines 

 and spiral striae appear; these become progressively stronger, the last 

 whorl being covered with close incised spirals. Whorls 5^, convex, 

 the last but slightly or not deflexed in front, angular or subangular at 

 the periphery in front, becoming rounded on the last half or third, con- 

 vex beneath. The aperture is oblique, widely lunate, colored within 

 like the outside. The lip is thin, narrowly reflexed, white, at least at 

 the edge, dark. at the ends of the bands, the columellar margin dilated. 



Alt. 21, diam. 26 mm. 



Alt. 22, diam. 26.2 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Type No. 87,595, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,213 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This beautiful species stands close to G. adelmce of Oshima and G. 

 sororcula of Kikaiga-shima, but differs from both in the obtuse spire, 

 the early w^horls Ijeing depressed. It is less closely related to G. 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



largillierti of Okinawa, that species having the umbiHcus far smaller, 

 no noticeable spiral striation, and a conic spire. 

 Ganesella myomphala okinoshimana n. subsp. 



Shell imperforate, smaller than G. myomphala, with a much wider 

 (1.5 to 2 mm.) peripheral dark band. Whorls 6^ to 6^. 



Alt. 23.5, diam. 31 mm. 



Alt. 18.5, diam. 28 mm. 



Okinoshima, Tosa. Types No. 80,822 and 87,644, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 583 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Like G. m. rninor Gude, of Awaji, this is a small insular form, but 

 doubtless independently evolved. 

 Ganesella selasia textilis n. subsp. 



Similar to G. selasia in the somewhat triangular aperture and rather 

 large umbilicus, but differing in the following respects: The spire is 

 lower, more convexly conoidal; the surface is very minutely, obso- 

 letely and irregularly granulose in places, and there are irregular spiral 

 lines on the base, especially near the umbilicus; just above the periph- 

 ery there is a very faint brown band ; and, finally, the lip is white and 

 thicker than in selasia. Whorls about 5+, the last slightl}^ deflexed in 

 front and noticeably contracted behind the peristome. 



Alt. 12.5, diam. 17 mm. 



Alt. 12.7, diam. 16.5 mm. 



Arakura, Tosa. Types No. 84,778, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,035 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Ganesella selasia zonata n. subsp. 



The shell is much more depressed than G. selasia or G. s. textilis, 

 openly umbilicate, with low, convexly conoid spire and depressed last 

 whorl, which is almost angular in front. Surface glossy, very minutely 

 and densely but subobsoletely granulose. Whorls about 5^, the last 

 wide, slightly deflexed in front, and usually somewhat contracted 

 behind the peristome. The aperture is sul^triangular, the lip white and 

 somewhat thickened. The shell is light brown or corneous-brown, 

 with a narrow brown band immediately above the periphery, and 

 ascending the spire just above the suture. 



Alt. 14, diam. 19.6 mm. 



Alt. 13, diam. 18 mm. 



Amasaki, Tosa. Types No. 85,728. A. N. S. P., from No. 1,107 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The low spire gives this subspecies an appearance very different from 

 G. selasia. It is much more closely related to G. s. textilis; and it has 

 affinity to G. wiegmanniana, also a Shikoku species; but both zonata 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 631 



and textilis differ from iviegmanniana in minute sculpture and in the 

 somewhat triangular shape of the mouth — characters allying them to 

 selasia of Ivii. It is quite impossible at present to fix definitely the 

 status of many of these forms, which often have affinities with several 

 very dissimilar species. In the series of selasia, textilis, zonata and 

 wiegynanniana the umbilicus is much larger than in G. japonica, G. 

 ferruginea and the forms grouping around them. 



STREPTAXID^. 

 Ennea iwakawa miyakojimana n. subsp. 



This race resembles E. i. oshimana, but the parietal lamella is longer 

 and more slender and approaches nearer to the upper palatal tubercle. 

 The striation is finer and closer. Whorls S. 



Length 4, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Miyakojima, Riukiu. Types No. 87,637, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,300 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



VERTIGINID^. 

 Vertigo hirasei glans n. subsp. 



Shell shorter than V. hirasei, with the suture less impressed. Teeth 

 practically typical. 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,689, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,261 of Mr, Hirase's collection. 



Vertigo hirasei okinoerabuensis n. subsp. 



Shell larger than V. hirasei, with 4^ whorls. There is an upper 

 palatal plica developed in addition to the teeth present in V. hirasei. 

 Color pale brownish-corneous, translucent. Length 1.7 mm. 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,690, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,261a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Pupa insulivaga n. sp. 



Shell very small, cylindrical, obtuse at the ends, ashy-brownish, thin 

 and smooth. Whorls 6|-, convex, separated by an impressed suture. 

 Aperture truncate-ovate, with an obtuse, wide, deeply seated colu- 

 mellar prominence, and a short lower palatal fold in the throat. The 

 peristome is thin, just perceptibly expanded at the edge; right margin 

 straightened in the middle, arcuate above. 



Length 1,7, diam, .8 mm. 



Yoronjima, Osumi, Types No, 87,624, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,264 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This minute, cylindrical species is very unlike any hitherto known 

 from the region, but closely resembles P. minutissima Hartm. of central 




632 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Europe. The latter, however, is a slightly larger species with strongly 

 striate surface, while insulivaga is smooth. The palatal plica also 

 differentiates the snail of Yoronjima from its European relative. 



ZONITIDiE. 

 Trochomorpha cultrata n. pp. 



Shell openly umbilicate, much depressed, the spire low-conic, base 

 convex; light reddish-brown, rather thin. Surface slightly shining^ 

 very minutely striate, the lower surface most minutely decussate wdth 

 spiral striae. Whorls 6f . the first two convex, the rest convex below 

 the suture, concave above the following suture. Last whorl very 

 acutely carinate, concave above and below the keel, distinctly angular 

 around the conic umbilicus. Aperture small, oblique, rhombic, with 

 thin, unexpanded peristome. 

 Alt. 7, diam. 20 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,502, A. N. S. P., from No.. 

 631a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is much more depressed than T. gouldiana, with much 

 more widely open umbilicus. T. horiomphala Pfr. is a still more 

 depressed species, with a distinct keel around the umbilicus. 

 Trochomorpha cultrata esuritor n. var. 



Similar to T. cultrata, but decidedly smaller, and somewhat less 

 depressed. 



Alt. 6, diam. 16.5 mm.. Avhorls 6^. 



Okino-Akimejima, Osumi. Types No. 87,518, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,246 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Sitala insignis n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, trochiform, thin and fragile, pale yellowish. Sur- 

 face minutely striate spirally, and with rather coarse, low wrinkles of 

 growth. Whorls nearly 3, the first 1^ very convex, the rest flatly 

 sloping, the last whorl acutely carinate, base convex. Aperture large, 

 very oblique, angular at the position of the keel, the peristome thin and 

 simple. 



Alt. 1, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Irazuyama, Tosa. Types No. 87,530, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,179 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is a remarkable species, not lik{^ any other Japanese or Indian, 

 Sitala known to us. Though very small, it seems to be mature, and 

 could not be the young of any known species of the region. 

 Sitala latissima conica n. subsp. 



Similar to S. latissima, but paler and more elevated. 

 Yoronjima, Osumi. Types No. 87,573, A. N. S. P., from No. 9536 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



Kaliella kikaigasMmse n. .'ip. 



Shell imperforate, thin, pale yellowish, somewhat translucent, 

 glossy; trochiform, the outlines of the spire nearly straight, the periph- 

 ery rounded, and the base convex. Whorls nearly 5, convex, parted 

 by a deeply impressed suture. Aperture broadly crescentic, the colu- 

 mella subvertical, "^dth reflexed edge. 



Alt. 3, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Kikaiga-shima, Osumi. Types No. 87,578, A, N. S. P., from No. 

 1,063 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is quite unlike any reported hitherto from the Riukiu 

 Islands. It is much larger than K. bimaris, the most nearly related 

 of the Riukiu species, the color is paler and the aperture a more ample 

 crescent. It is the first Kaliella to be found on Ivikaiga-shima. 

 Kaliella humiliconus n. sp. 



Shell perforate, amber-colored, somewiiat dull above, glossy beneath; 

 conic above the spire with nearly straight, slightly convex lateral out- 

 lines and obtuse apex, the periphery carinate, base convex. Whorls 

 5^, convex, separated by an impressed sutm-e. Aperture truncate- 

 crescentic, the columella vertical, its edge dilated and reflexed. 



Alt. 2.6, diam. 3.6 mm. 



Gokashomura, Ise. Types No. 87,928, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,169 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is closely related to K. sororcula, but is smaller and has 

 a vertical, not sloping columella. It is not so elevated as K. higash- 

 iyamana. 



Kaliella okiuoshimana n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, trochoidal, elevated, amber colored, subtrans- 

 lucent, glossy. The outlines of the spire are very slightly convex^ 

 nearly straight. Apex obtuse ; the periphery has a delicately project- 

 ing acute keel, and the base is convex. Whorls 6^, slightly convex. 

 Suture narrowly margined above. The aperture is squarish-oblong, a 

 little curved. Columella short, subvertical, with dilated edge. 



Alt. 4, diam. 4,7 mm. 



Okinoshima, Tosa. Types No. 87,929, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,182 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species stands near K. sororcula, but it has a more glossy surface 

 and the columella is vertical. It is a larger and more elevated shell 

 than K. humiliconus. 



Kaliella bimaris n. sp. 



Shell small, subperforate, brownish-yellow, rather dull above, glossy 

 beneath; trochiform, the outlines of the spire slightly convex, the 

 41 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



periphery rounded, base convex, deepl}' indented in the middle. 

 Whorls 5^, very convex, parted by a deeply impressed suture. Aper- 

 ture lunate, the columellar margin broadly dilated and reflexed. 



Alt. 2.1, diam. 2.-3 mm. 



Naha, Okinawa Island, Riukiu. Types No. 87,580, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,160 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is intermediate in shape between K. pagoduloides and 

 K. modesta. 

 Kaliella gudei persubtilis n. subsp. 



Similar to /v. gudei of southern Yesso, but perceptibly lower and wider. 



Alt. 5, diam. 7 mm. 



Toshima, Izu. Types No. 85,766, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,091a of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. Also Kozujima, Izu, No. 1,091. 



The islands of Izu have a fauna of great interest, though it is not 

 rich in species. Some forms, like Zaptyx in the Clausiliidse and the 

 varieties of Eulota submandarina , show close affinity to the Riukiu 

 fauna, and can scarcely have reached these islands in any other way 

 than by drift along the Black Current. Others, like the present species, 

 are related to Yesso forms, and probably indicate a former extension 

 southward upon the main island of species now northern in distribu- 

 tion. 



Kaliella pallida Pils. 



This species was described from Hachijo-jima, Izu, in error. It 

 comes in reality from Mizuma-mura, Izumi. The types are 83,378, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 952 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 

 Microcystina vaga n. sp. 



Shell almost imperforate, depressed trochiform, amber-colored, sub- 

 transparent, smooth and glossy. Spire low-conic with convex outlines. 

 Whorls 6, convex, slowly increasing, the last subangular at the periph- 

 ery, convex beneath. Aperture lunate, the columella thickened with 

 a white callous within, dilated and reflexed above. 



Alt. 3.1, diam. 4.3 mm. 



Muya, Awa, Shikoku. Types No. 84,439, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,006 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also from Iwaya, Awaji (No. 1,006a), 

 Midzuma, Idzumi (606c), Gojo, Yamato (606), and Hakusan, Kaga 

 (973). 



There are more whorls than in M. tanegashimce . M. obtusongida is 

 a more depressed species. 

 Microcystina lampra n. sp. 



Shell perforate, depressecl-trochiform, pale amber colored, subtrans- 

 parent, smooth and glossy. Spire low-conoid, with slightly convex 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



outlines; apex obtuse. Whorls 5^, convex, slowly widening, the last 

 rounded at the periphery, convex beneath. Aperture crescentic; 

 columella arcuate, calloused within, the margin dilated and narrowly 

 re flexed above. 



Alt. 2.9, diam. 4 mm. 



Yakushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,558, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,282 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Also No. 1,282a from Kuchinoerabushima, 

 Osumi. 



This species closely imitates M. vaga, but it is readily distinguishable 

 by the rounded, not angular, last whorl. The whorls arc more closely 

 coiled than in M. tanegashimcB, and larger than M. yakuensis. Some 

 specimens from Matsubara-mura, Echizen (Mr. Hirase's No. 6066), 

 where M. vaga would be expected, seem to be M. lampra. 



This group of species is somewhat difficult. M. tanegashimce is a 

 larger species than M. yakuensis, more depressed than vaga or lampra, 

 with fewer whorls, the last one wider. M. yakuensis is probably iden- 

 tical with M. nuda, and both stand close to M. hilgendorfii Reinh.; but 

 that is described as whitish — " albida" — while the others are yellow or 

 amber colored. M. circumdata differs from all of the above species 

 in being spirally striate. 



MaorocMamys dulcis koshikijimana n. subsp. 



This form has the shape and microscopic spiral striation of M. dulcis 

 Pils., with the same number of whorls, but the spire is more elevated, 

 and viewed from above it is wider. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 12, lesser 10.5 mm.; width of spire 7 mm. 



Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. Types No. 87,521, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,236 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In a specimen of M. dulcis of the same diameter the spire is a milli- 

 meter narrower. 



MaorocMamys subelimatus n. sp. 



Shell perforate, depressed, pale yellow, translucent, smooth and 

 glossy. Spire very low-conic. Whorls 4^, slowly increasing, the last 

 very wide, double the width of the preceding, rounded at the periphery 

 and base, indented around the perforation. Aperture slightly oblique, 

 lunate, the lip thin and simple, a trifle dilated at the columellar inser- 

 tion. 



Alt. 2.5, diam. 4 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,553, A. N. S, P., from No. 

 1,286 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species differs from M. semisericatus by the more glossy upper 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



surface. It has a half whorl more, the last one embracing more of the 

 preceding whorl, causing the aperture to be more narrowly lunar. 

 The last whorl is much wider, viewed from above, than in the species 

 of Microcystina of similar size, 



Macrochlamys gudei inclytus n. subsp. 



Shell similar to M. gudei, but larger. 

 Alt. 9, diam. 13.5 mm. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,509, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,208 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Zonitoides apertus n. sp. 



The shell is depressed, widely, openly umbilicate, the spire but 

 slightly convex. Pale greenish corneous-brown when fresh, " dead " 

 shells light brown. Surface glossy, closety, deeply and a little irregu- 

 larly striate throughout except the first whorl which is nearly smooth. 

 There are no spiral striae. Whorls 4, slowly increasing at first, the 

 last whorl much wider, double the width of the penultimate, rounded 

 at the periphery. Aperture oblique, oval-lunate, decidedly wider than 

 high, the peristome simple as usual. 



Alt. 2.1, diam. 4.7 mm, 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,522, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,258 of Mr, Hirase's collection. 



Very distinct by its discoidal form, wide last whorl and strongly 

 striate surface. 

 Hirasea insignis n. sp. 



Shell imperforate, depressed, with low-conic spire and convex base, 

 impressed in the center. Brown. Very finely and regularly striate 

 radially above, smooth below. Whorls 5, convex, very slowly widen- 

 ing. Aperture crescentic, narrow, the lip strengthened by a strong 

 white rib within, abruptly stopping short of the upper insertion. A 

 long, erect callous lamina stands at the edge of the parietal callous. 



Alt. 2, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Mukojima, Ogasawara. Types No. 87,514, A. N. S. P., from. No. 

 1,194 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Like Brazieria in its parietal barrier, and the only known Ogasa- 

 waran species with this structure. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Punctum atomus n. pp. 



Shell minute, moderately umbilicate, pale yellow, glossy, sculptured 

 with sharp, close strise and very fine spirals. Whorls 3, convex, sepa- 

 rated by a deeply impressed suture, the last whorl well rounded at the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



periphery and beneath. Aperture rounded-lunate, the lip simple and 

 acute. 



Alt. .5, diam. 1 mm. 



Nishigo, Uzen. Types No. 87,933, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,266 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is the size of P. japonicum or somewhat smaller, but 

 differs from that by its fine sculpture, without wide-spaced riblets. 



Punctum rota n. sp. 



Shell moderately umbilicate, pale greenish-corneous or olive-brown, 

 shining, sculptured with delicate, wide-spaced oblique riblets, the in- 

 tervals finely striate. Spire low-conic. Whorls 3^, convex, the last 

 rounded peripherally and beneath. Aperture quite oblique, rounded, 

 nearly one-third of the circle excised by the penultimate whorl. Peris- 

 tome thin, the columellar margin dilated at the insertioiv, 



Alt. 1, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Nishigo, Uzen. Types No. 87,930, A. N. S. P., horn No. 1,191 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. Also occurs at Kyoto, Yamashiro, No. 1,221 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is more elevated and more rounded peripherally than P. 

 jyretiosum Gude. The umbilicus is larger than in P. morseanum. Very 

 similar specimens, but of perceptibly darker brown color, were collected 

 on Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Although so distant from the type 

 locality, I can find no other distinctive characters. 



ACHATINID^3. 

 Opeas brevispira n. sp. 



Shell openly perforate, oblong, very short for the genus, corneous, 

 translucent, glossy, finely wrinkle-striate, the striae arcuate. Spire 

 short, regularly tapering to the obtuse apex. Wliorls 5 j, moderately 

 convex. Aperture long, rhombic-ovate, the outer lip arched forward 

 in the middle, columellar lip reflexed, not adnate except at the insertion, 

 columella straight. 



Length 6, diam, 3, length of aperture 2.6 mm. 



Kashima, Harima (Mr. Y. Hirase). Types No. 79,097, Coll. A. N. 

 S. P. 



Similar to 0. kyotoensis in the obtuse apex, open perforation and stri- 

 ation, but differing in being very much shorter and broader. The short 

 contour is quite unusual in this genus. 



Opeas kyotoensis n. sp. 



Shell almost imperforate, turreted, translucent, waxen whitish, glossy, 

 arcuately, inconspicuously wrinkle-striate, smoother below. General 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scpt., 



slope of the sides straight, apex very obtuse. Whorls 7h, quite convex, 

 separated by deeply impressed sutures. Aperture slightly oblique, 

 somewhat effuse below; outer lip sinuous, thin; columella straight, 

 vertical, the edge reflexed and appresscd except for a minute umbilical 

 chink. 



Length 10, diam. 3.3, longest axis of aperture 3.3 mm. 



Length 7, diam. 2.8, longest axis of aperture 2.7 mm. 



Kyoto, Yamashiro. Types No. 78,757, A. N. S. P. 



The chief character of this species is its blunt, rounded apex. It is 

 very near 0. prestoni 8ykes of Ceylon, but that species is a little less 

 striate and perceptibly more glabrous, 

 Opeas obesispira n. sp. 



Shell minutely perforate, turreted, translucent, whitish corneous, 

 the columella visible through the shell; glossy with faint, arcuate 

 wrinkles. Lateral outlines decidedly convex above. Whorls about 8^, 

 moderately convex, separated by impressed sutures, which appear to 

 have a translucent margin below. Aperture subvertical; outer lip 

 thin, arched forward in the middle, somewhat retracted below. Colu- 

 mella subvertical, with a distinct spiral twist below; its edge reflexed 

 above. 



Length 12, diam. 3.3, longest axis of aperture 3.3 mm. 



Riukiu. Types No. 79,093, A. N. S. P., from No. 4566 of Mr. Hirase's 

 collection. 



This species is smoother and less distinctly perforate than 0. gracile, 

 and the spire is thicker above, giving quite a different aspect to the 

 shell. The columellar reflection is narrower than in 0. prestoni Sykes. 

 All of the shells seen contain rather large white eggs. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 639 



THREE ODD INCIDENTS IN ANT-LIFE. 



BY ADELE M. FIELDE, 



1. A case of hypnotism among ants? 



I had a small artificial nest containing twelve workers of Cremasto- 

 gaster lineolata that had spent the first month of their lives in a mixed 

 colony of Lasius latipes, Stenamnia fiilvum and their own kind. They 

 had then been transfeiTed to their present abode, where they had lived 

 for eleven months, never meeting ants of other species, except upon a 

 few rare occasions when I introduced a visitor into their nest. On 

 August 20, 1904, they were happily occupied in care of some promising 

 pupae from their old wild nest, when I dropped into their nursery a 

 single Lasnis latipes, somewhat larger and probably older than any of 

 their number. She was a stranger from the wild nest of their quondam 

 associates. As I dropped the strong-smelling, vigorous yellow worker 

 into their nest, I glanced at my watch to note the minutes they would 

 spend in slaying the intruder. When I looked back at the ants, I was 

 at once impressed by the curious and sudden change in the positions 

 of all the little black Cremastogasters and by the remarkable rigidity 

 of five of them. Five were in the food-room, and they do not enter 

 further into this narration ; two were on the roof-pane of the nursery ; 



and five were motionless under the 

 touches of the Lasius, who, instead of 

 fleeing or hiding, as do ants who are 

 among enemies outnumbering them, was 

 traversing two sides of the nursery at a 

 leisurely-rapid pace from the hallway, 

 marked H, to the corner marked A 

 where there was a little pile of pupse, 

 and then on to the B corner where 

 was a similar pile. She made more than 

 eleven journeys to and fro, taking nearly 

 The straight lines indicate the the same track, sometimes walking Over 

 sides of the nest; the dotted line j^j^ ^j-^^ qj. two, sometimes brushing the 

 the path of the yellow ant; the ., . , , 4.- „„ 



dashes the positions of the five Side of one as she passed, sometnnes 

 black ants. slightly varying her route so as to pass 



between two on the A B side of the nest. Whatever her course, every 

 ant of the five swayed the abdomen slowly toward her as she passed, 

 and swayed it back as soon as she had passed it. This swaying of the 



H -:^....A 



B 




640 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scpt., 



abdomen, with slight movements of the antennae, were the only signs 

 of life given by any of the five ants during forty-five minutes. Mean- 

 time one of the other residents came down from the roof-pane, and 

 while the yellow ant was at H with the heads of all the spellbound 

 ones turned aw^ay from her, this solicitous sister went and touched 

 three of the entranced ones, but failing to rouse them, she withdrew 

 again beyond the line of the yellow visitor's march. I was observing 

 the ants through a pane of orange-tinted glass which protected them 

 from such liglit as they were aware of/ and I several times lifted the 

 pane, letting the daylight fall full upon them, but even this stimulant 

 did not impel any of them to move. 



During all this time none of the five ants that were in the food-room 

 returned through the only ingress therefrom, the hallway H, and the 

 young, ordinarily attended upon without intermission, were wholly 

 neglected. The yellow ant finally stayed awhile in the hallway, and 

 within the ensuing five minutes all the three ants between A and B 

 began to walk slowly forward. I then shoved the other two with the 

 end of a needle, and they also moved slowly about. 



I did not again look into this nest until the following morning, when 

 I found the yellow ant dead, and carried to the rubbish pile. I then 

 introduced another ant of the same colony and of the same appearance, 

 but this second ant was no Svengali, and only the expected thereupon 

 happened. 



Yet another, introduced later, came in like manner to an immediate 

 and violent death. 



2. A wolf in sheep's clothing? 



I had in August, 1904, a nest of Crcmastogaster lineolaia, containing 

 one queen, a hundred workers, and much young in the egg, larval and 

 pupal stages. These ants had been in my care during all their lifetimes, 

 and I know that they had never met Lasins latipes in active life. In 

 the previous June I had introduced into their nest a half-teaspoonful 

 of the larvae of Lasius latipes, for them to use as food, and this alien 

 larvae had been taken care of, had become pupae, and had gradually 

 disappeared. On August 21 there hatched from what was perhaps the 

 last of these alien pupae a tiny Lasius, that the Cremastogasters per- 

 mitted to live. Its bright amber-yellow body was very conspicuous 

 among its jet-black associates. During several days the infant Lasius, 

 of a different subfamily from its foster-sisters, shared their labors and 

 passed unnoticed among them, and then it was nipped to death. 



It is probable that this Lasius, having been long among the Cremas- 

 togasters, had acquired an overlaying of their inlierent odor, concealing 

 its own, and that it thereby escaped hostile attack until such time as it 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 641 



inherent odor became subject to the critical examination of an associate 

 or of the queen. Then instinctive race-prejudice impelled the Cremas- 

 togasters to eliminate from their community one whose education had 

 already been such as to secure them from injury through her misbe- 

 havior. 



3. Can an ant remember acquaintances after lapse of three j^cars or 

 more? 



In August, 1904, I had a nest of Camponotus pennsylvanicus , con- 

 taining some larvoe and fourteen large workers, all of whom had hatched 

 in my nests between l\Iay 1 and May 10, and who were therefore about 

 three months old. They had spent the first two months of their lives 

 with Stenamma fiilvum ants who were from seven to nine months old, 

 and they had not met ants of other species. They had been segregated 

 about one month, when I dropped into their nest two Formica lasiodes 

 of unknown age. several newly hatched Stenamma fulvum of the C 

 colony, two adult Stenamma fulviim of the X colony and two Stenam- 

 ma fulviim that were more than three years old, having been captured 

 as adults and kept three years in one of my artificial nests, a section of 

 the C colony. From the first introduction of these ants to the nest 

 of Camponotus, one of the three-year-old Stenammas, who was of the 

 same colony as were the early acquaintances of Camponotus, went 

 freely and happily among them, apparently without fear and without 

 reproach. She was permitted to stand among or upon the cherished 

 larvce, or on the backs of the resident ants. The affiliation between 

 her and them was as complete as if she had always lived among them. 

 Her odor may have become familiar to them in the nest of Stenammas 

 where they had spent their early lives. But if this Stenamma had ever 

 been acquainted with Camponotus it was at a time previous to her resi- 

 dence in my artificial nests, and more than three years since she had 

 met any ant of other species than her own. The remarkable ease and 

 friendliness of her intercourse with these ants, among whom she was as 

 a brown pigmy among black bristly giants, is a fact requiring explana- 

 tion; and the only explanation offered by known characteristics of ants 

 lies in her recognition of an odor that she had previously encountered, 

 and that she recognized the odor after the lapse of more than three 

 years. 



All the other ants introduced at the same time as was this Stenamma 

 were killed by the resident Camponotus within a few hours. The 

 Stenamma continued to live among the Camponotus until I removed 

 her at the end of eight days. 



The incidents were observed at the ^larine Biological Laboratory 

 at Wood's Hob, Massachusetts. 




642 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept. 



THE EEACTIONS OF ANTS TO MATERIAL VIBRATIONS. 



BY ADELE M. FIELDE and GEORGE H. PARKER. 



While it is well established that some insects react to sound vibra- 

 tions that reach .them through the air, and in this sense may be said to 

 hear, many competent authorities, such as Huber (1810), Ferris (1850), 

 Forel (1874, 1900), and Lubbock (1894), have admitted their inability 

 to bring to light any evidence that ants are thus stimulated. Even 

 the discovery of the so-called chord otonal organs in ants by Lubbock 

 (1894) and Janet (1894) has not led to positive results, so far as the 

 reactions of these animals to material vilDrations are concerned, though 

 two American investigators, Weld (1899) and Metcalf (1900), have 

 claimed that ants are very sensitive to certain tones. 



Because of these somewhat conflicting opinions, it seemed to us de- 

 sirable to reinvestigate this question,^ and for this purpose we carried 

 out experiments on the following species of ants: 



Camponotine ants: 

 Camponotus pennsylvanicus (Deg.), workers; 

 Formica sanguinea Latr., queens and workers; 

 F. fusca L., var. suhsericea Say, queens and workers; 

 Lasius umbratus (Nyl.), queens and workers; 

 L. latipes (Walsh), workers. 



Myrmicine ants: 

 Stenanima fidvum Roger, var. piceum Emery, queens and workers; 

 Cremastogaster lineolata (Say), queens and workers. 



Poncrine ants: 

 Stigmatomma pallipes (Haldm.), workers. 



All these ants had lived more than a month in the artificial nests 

 in which they were tested. They had established their nest-odor, 

 had their young in charge and were well domesticated in their respec- 

 tive abodes. 



These ants were tested for two general classes of material vibrations : 

 first, those that reached them through the air surrounding them, and, 

 secondly, those from the solid base upon which the ants rested. 



^ These investigations were made in the summer of 1903, at the Marine 

 Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Mass. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 643 



As sources for air vibrations we used a piano, a violin,, and a Gallon 

 whistle. The keys of the piano gave us a range from 27 to 4176 vibra- 

 tions per second. The Galton whistle had a range from about 10,000 

 to about 60,000 vibrations per second, and was provided with a mova- 

 ble threaded core whereby any intermediate vibration could be ob- 

 tained. The range from the highest note of the piano, 4,176, to the 

 lowest one of the whistle, about 10,000, was bridged over b)^ vibrations 

 obtained from the violin. Thus a series of vibrations from 27 to 60,000 

 per second were available for experimental purposes. 



In testing the ants with these vibrations the artificial nests were so 

 arranged that their air was in free communication with the outer air 

 in which the vibrations were produced, but this was carried out in such 

 a way that draughts, to which ants are very sensitive, could not enter 

 the nests. The nests were placed upon thick paper, so as to isolate 

 them from vibrations that might reach them through the table upon 

 which they rested. The observer then closely watched a quiescent 

 ant under a hand magnifier, while a second person at several metres dis- 

 tance produced the vibrations as desired. As a rule, each key of the 

 piano was struck ten times in slow succession. If the ant under obser- 

 vation seemed to respond, it was given a resting period, and then re- 

 tested at the pitch to which it apparently reacted. The range of the 

 whistle, 10,000 to 60,000 vibrations, was divided into sixty intervals, 

 and these were treated as the keys of the piano, each note being blown 

 ten times while an ant was under observation. Ants were also watched 

 while the pitch of the whistle was gradually changed by slowly screwing 

 the core either in or out. A gradual change of pitch was also 

 produced on the violin. 



All the species mentioned as tested by us were subjected to this 

 range, 27 to 60,000 vibrations per second, and in no single instance 

 was any unquestionable reaction observed. Now and then an ant 

 would seem to respond to a given note, but in every case repetitions 

 of the experiment gave a negative result. We, therefore, conclude 

 that aerial vibrations between 27 and 60,000 per second give rise to 

 no observable responses -in the ants we worked upon, and as these 

 included representatives of three subfamilies of the Formicidffi, it is 

 highl}^ probable that a like condition will be found among other ants. 



Our results, then, agree Avith those of Hubcr, Ferris, Forel and Lub- 

 bock, but are opposed to what is stated by Weld and by Metcalf. In 

 one instance we worked upon the same species as Weld, namely, 

 Cremastogaster lineolata, and tested it with a note approximately that 

 used by Weld (4,096 vibrations), but obtained from the piano and from 




644 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scpt.,, 



the violin instead of from a metal bar. Nevertheless we got no reac- 

 tion. Weld does not make clear that his ants were always isolated 

 from all except aerial vibrations, nor that their reactions were constant 

 under repeated stimulation. It seems to us possible that his ants may 

 have reacted at times to vibrations of the solid base upon which they 

 rested and to which, as we shall show presently, they are very sensitive, 

 or their supposed reactions may have been accidental. Certainly our 

 own experimental evidence gives us not the least reason to suspect 

 that ants are stimulated by sound waves in air. 



Having reached this conclusion we next endeavored to ascertain 

 whether ants would respond to vibrations of the solid base upon which 

 they stood. Wlien a nest containing Stenanima fulvum was held in 

 the air within a centimetre or so of the woodwork of a piano, and the C, 

 giving 261 vibrations per second, w^as struck, no response followed. 

 When, however, the nest was allowed to rest on the woodwork and the 

 note was again sounded, almost all the ants started forward simul- 

 taneously. Thus a vibration that comes to an ant through the air 

 is not necessarily followed by a reaction, though the same vibration 

 when it reaches the ant through a solid may be very stimulating. All 

 the eight species of ants with which we experimented were thus stimu- 

 lated, though they failed to react to the same vibrations in the air. 

 The range of the different species was by no means uniform. All 

 reacted to the 27 vibratioas per second and to higher notes up to a 

 certain pitch characteristic for each species. Crcmastogastcr reacted 

 at 522, but to no higher note. The superior limit for Formica fusca, 

 var. suhsericea was 1,044, and for Lasius latipes and Stigmatomma 2,088. 

 Stenamma always reacted at 2,088, usually at 3,915, but failed at 4,176. 

 Camponotus regularly reacted at 3,480, but failed at 4,176. Formica 

 sanguinea, which invariably responded at 2,088, occasionally did so 

 at 4,176, a pitch regularly reacted to by Lasius umhratus. Thus each 

 species seemed to have a characteristic superior limit for stimulating 

 vibrations received through solids. 



Ants are not only sensitive to the tones of a piano transmitted 

 through a solid, but they are also sensitive to vibrations from other 

 sources similarly transmitted . This is well seen in the following experi- 

 ment on Stenavima. When the edges of two Petri dishes were 

 rubbed against each other in the air, the ants did not respond; l^ut 

 when the edge of the dish in which the ants were held was rubbed even 

 lightly by the edge of another dish, they reacted with great precision. 

 These reactions occurred even when the Petri dish containing the ants 

 was floating on water and the edge of the vessel containing the water 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 645 



was rubbed. Some idea of the delicacy of these reactions may be 

 gained from the fact that ants in a Petri dish resting on a pine table-top 

 reacted to the scratch of a pin on the table at a distance of ten feet 

 from the dish. A measure of the stimulus necessary to call forth the 

 most delicate reaction, usually a jerking movement of the antennae, was 

 obtained in the following way : A small artificial nest was built on the 

 end of a long board clear of knots and, after the ants had become ac- 

 customed to their nest, stimuli were introduced by dropping a shot 

 weighing half a gram on the board at different distances from the nest 

 and from different heights. It was found that the ants reacted to a 

 blow given to the board 4.3 metres (14 feet) from the nest when the 

 shot fell from a height of 15 centimetres (6 inches), but that they did 

 not react when it fell through only half that distance. 



Ants not only react to material \Tibrations received through wood, 

 glass, water, etc., but they will also react to such vibrations when 

 resting on a bit of sponge in an artificial nest or on the soil in which they 

 construct their nests. Thus ants within their natural earth nests may 

 be stimulated by the vibrations of the material on which they stand, 

 though they will not respond to similar vibrations in the air about 

 them. 



To ascertain what parts of the body of the ant are concerned in its 

 reaction to the vibrations of non-gaseous materials, we performed 

 experiments on a number of individuals of Stenamma fulvum piceum 

 that had been deprived of portions of the body. 



All the mutilated ants, except those lacking heads or abdomens, had 

 undergone the necessary surgical operations so long as three or four 

 weeks previous to the experiments, and had therefore had time for 

 full recovery from shock-effects. 



The irritability of workers deprived of their funicles, or of the whole 

 of the antennae, was such as to make it necessary to isolate each in 

 order to prevent mutual slaughter, though all were of the same colony. 

 This irritability continued even after they had recovered from shock- 

 effect, had become alert and active, and had been more than a month 

 without funicles, or without both funicles and scapes. Queens similarly 

 mutilated were scarcely more irritable than when in normal condition, 

 and nearly all of the thirty operated upon survived the operation 

 more than two months and laid eggs. 



Queens and workers deprived of only one antenna were no more 

 irritable than normal ants, and hardly any deaths resulted from this 

 mutilation, while not more than twenty per cent, of the workers survived 

 the loss of either both funicles or both antennae. 




64G 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



Queens and workers deprived of a pair of legs, the amputation being 

 made at the coxal joint (see figure), lived in groups as amicably as 

 do whole ants, and there was little loss of life through this operation. 



The delicate structure of the leg 

 manifestly renders it a probable com- 

 municator of vibration from any solid 

 with which it might be in contact. 



There was throughout a direct 

 ratio between the degree of irritabil- 

 it}^ produced and the percentage of 

 deaths conseciucnt upon the surgical 

 operations. The operations were as 

 far as possible carried out asepti- 

 cally and careful nursing was at- 

 tempted for all cases. 



The mutilated ants wTre tested 

 in Petri dishes, first by scratching 

 together in the air the edges of two 

 Petri dishes to ascertain whether 

 the ants were stimulated by air vibra- 

 tions, and next by gently scratching 

 the edge of the dish in which the ants 

 were. As might be expected, no 

 reaction was ever obtained from 

 mutilated ants submitted to air 

 vibrations. The reaction of the ants 

 to the vibrations of the dish con- 

 taining them and the states of the 

 ants, so far as the operations that 

 they had undergone were concerned, 

 are given in the following summary : 



1 . Queens from which both f unicles 

 had been removed reacted by slight 

 locomotion, usually moving back- 

 ward or sidewise, rarely forward. 



2. Queens from which one antenna 

 had been removed reacted like 

 normal queens by forward, back- 

 ward or sidewise locomotion. 



3. Queens deprived of the whole of 

 both antennae reacted by moving 

 backward or sidewise. 



Prothoracic leg of a young Stcnamma 

 fidvum piceum. X 48. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 647 



4. Workers deprived of both fiuiicles moved forward, backward or 

 turned side wise. 



5. Workers deprived of one antenna moved forward or turned side- 

 wise, as did the normal workers. 



6. Workers without antennae moved forward or backward or turned 

 side wise. 



It is thus evident that the antennae are not essential to the reactions 

 of these ants to vibrations from a solid, for the ants invariably reacted 

 irrespective of the conditions of the antennae, and the slight differences 

 in the nature of their reactions seem to us insignificant of the function 

 of hearing in parts removed. This opinion, that the antennae are not 

 essential to these reactions, is in accord with certain observations on 

 normal ants. When a normal ant in a Petri dish was resting with its 

 antennae high in air, it was olDserved to react vigorously to a slight 

 scraping on the edge of the dish, without, however, bringing the antennas 

 in contact with the dish. 



7. Decapitated queens and workers reacted by movements of the 

 legs, without, however, showing any determinate form of locomotion. 



8. Queens and workers deprived of their abdomens reacted by 

 moving forward or side wise. 



9. Queens deprived of any one pair of legs reacted by moving 

 forward, l^ackward or sidewise. 



10. Workers ■deprived of an}' one pair of legs reacted by moving 

 forward or turning sidewise. 



11. Queens and workers deprived of any two pairs of legs reacted by 

 making ineffectual efforts to walk, their direction of locomotion being 

 very irregular. 



It is thus evident that the reactions of the ants to the vibrations of 

 the underlying solid arc not dependent upon the antennae, head, abdo- 

 men, any pair or two pairs of legs. It seems to us probable that stimu- 

 lation is effected by the transfer of the vibration from the underlying 

 solid to the body of the ant, without reference to any special sense- 

 organ. That the various movements of the ants are true reactions, 

 and not merely motions transferred mechanicallv from the vibratino- 

 base to the body of the ant, as to any small particle capable of vibrating, 

 is seen from the fact that the body of a dead ant does not show these 

 movements, and further that in a live ant these movements cease after 

 the stimulus has been repeated a few times, but begin again after the 

 ant has been allowed a resting period of at least ten minutes. 



In none of our experiments was there any evidence of a directive 

 influence exerted by the stimulus on the movements of the ant. 




648 PROCP^EDIXGS OF THE. ACADEMY OF [Scpt., 



The observations and experiments recorded on the preceding pages 

 lead us to conclude that ants are insensitive to air vibrations, such as 

 are audible to us, and that they are ver}^ sensitive to the vibration of 

 the solid material upon which they stand, be this wood, glass, sponge 

 or the earth of their nests. These vibrations apparently affect their 

 whole bodies, reaching them through their legs or any other part in 

 contact with the solid base. It is of course conceivable that if an 

 air vibration were strong enough — i.e., if the sound were loud 

 enough — it might stimulate the body of the ant directly, but ap- 

 parently this is not usually the case; for, as we have already shown, 

 sounds of ordinary intensity, which call forth no response from the 

 ants when they reach , these animals through the air, are very 

 effective as stimuli when they reach the animal from a solid 

 base. It therefore seems probable to us that ants in their nests are 

 stimulated, not by the sound waves in the air of the nest, but by the 

 vibrations of the solid parts of the nest itself. Hence the effectiveness 

 of a heavy footstep in the neighborhood of an anthill as contrasted with 

 the ineffectiveness of the human voice in causing an active emergence 

 of the ants. These animals are, as it were, in the condition of a per- 

 fectly deaf person who feels through his feet the vibrations caused by 

 a passing wagon, but cannot hear the sound it produces in the air. 

 This sensitiveness of the ants to the \dbrations of the base upon which 

 they rest and their insensitiveness to air vibrations is exactly what 

 would be expected from the requirements of their subterranean life 

 as contrasted with that of aerial insects. 



Because of the analogy between the ants and a deaf person we do 

 not wish, however, to be understood to deny hearing to ants; neither 

 do we affirm it. 



It has long been recognized by physiologists, if not by the scientific 

 public, that touch and hearing in the vertebrates are very closely 

 related. The apparent separateness of these senses in us is due to 

 the fact that the air waves by which our ears are usually stimulated 

 are too slight to affect our organs of touch. If, however, we transfer 

 our experiments to water, we at once meet with a medium in which, 

 as has long been known, vibrations can be both heard and felt. In 

 dealing with a like question among the lower animals it therefore seems 

 to us misleading to attempt to distinguish touch from hearing, and we 

 shall be more within the bounds of accuracy if we discuss the question 

 from the standpoint of mechanical stimulation rather than attempt 

 to set up questionable distinctions based upon human sensations. 

 We therefore prefer to ignore the question of hearing in ants and to 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 649 



restate our conclusion in the form already given, that these animals are 

 insensitive to the ordinary vibrations of air, but are very sensitive to 

 the vibrations of the solid upon which they stand. 



It seems to us probable from our experiments that the material 

 vibrations that stimulate ants reach them in this way rather than 

 through the air. Janet (1893; 1896, p. 19) has described an ingenious 

 method whereby the stridulating of ants can be heard by the human 

 ear, and Wheeler (1903, p. 66) has been able to note a faint sound when 

 a large number of stridulating ants are collected in a bottle. Undoubt- 

 edly these stridulations are of ecologic importance to an ant community, 

 but it is our belief, based upon our experiments, that what can be heard 

 by the human car through the air is probably not the vibration that 

 affects the ants, but rather that the stridulation produces a vibration 

 of the solid constituents of the nest, and that this vibration is the 

 effective one in stimulating the inmates. 



Summary. 



1. The ants experimented upon did not react to aerial sound waves 

 from a piano, ^dolin, and Galton whistle, which collectively gave a range 

 from 27 to 60,000 vibrations per second. 



2. They reacted to most vibrations that reached them through the 

 wood, glass, sponge or nest-earth upon which they stood, though 

 different species seem to have different superior limits in respect to the 

 rate of the \dbrations. 



3. These reactions are not dependent upon the funicles, the antennae^ 

 the head, the abdomen, any pair or two pairs of legs of the ant, but are 

 usually received through the legs, and probably affect the body of the 

 ant as a whole. 



4. The stimulation of ants by the vibration of the solid upon which 

 they stand, and not by the vibration of the surrounding air, accords 

 well with their subterranean life as contrasted with the aerial life of 

 most insects. 



5. It is misleading to ascribe or deny hearing to ants; they are very 

 sensitive to the vibration of solids, not to those of air; their reactions 

 could be as appropriately described as resulting from touch as from 

 hearing. 



42 




650 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scpt., 



Bibliography. 



FoREL, A. 1874. Les fourmis de la Suisse. Zurich, 4°, iv + 457 pp., 2 pi. 

 1900. Experiences et remarques critiques sur les sensations des Insectes. 



Deuxieme partie. Como, Svo, 76 pp. 

 HuBER, J. P. ISIO. Recherches sur les moeurs des Fourmis indigenes. Paris, 



Svo, pp. 13 + 328, 2 pi. 

 Janet, C. 1893. Note sur la production des sons chez les Fourmis et sur les 



organes qui les produisent. Annales de la Societe entomologique de France, 



tome 62, pp. 159-168. 

 1894. Sur les nerfs de I'antenne et les organes chordotonaux chez les Fourmis. 



Comptes rendus de VAcademie des Sciences, Paris, tome 118, pp. 814-817. 

 1896. Les Fourmis. Paris, Svo, 37 pp. 

 Lubbock, J. 1894. Ants, Bees and Wasps. The International Scientific Series, 



No. 42, revised edition. New York, Svo, xix + 448 pp., 5 pis. 

 Metcalf, M. M. 1900. Hearing in Ants. *Saence, new series. Vol. 11, No. 266, 



p. 194. 

 Perris, E. 1850. Memoire sur le siege de I'odorat dans les Articules. Annales 



des Sciences naturelles, Zoologie, serie 3 tome 14, pp. 149-178. 

 Weld, L. D. 1899. The Sense of Hearing in Ants. ^Science, new series, Vol. 10, 



No. 256, pp. 766-768. 

 Wheeler, W. M. 1903. Ethological Observations on an American Ant {Lepto- 



thorax emersoni Wheeler). Journcd jiir Psychologie und Neurologic, Bd. 2, 



pp. 31-47, 64-78. 




1904.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 651 



NEW CHILOPODS. 



BY RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN, 



Lithobius centurio sp. nov 



Dorsum dark brown, the principal scuta darkened along posterior 

 border and along middle; head a little lighter, darkened over middle 

 caudally; antennae light brown; legs mostly yellowish, the posterior 

 pairs becoming darker, brown; posterior portion of venter darkest, 

 all the scuta excepting the most anterior with a paler central circular 

 area. 



Body much narrowed anteriorly. 



Posterior angles of the 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced. 



Antennae of moderate length; articles 19-22, the distal ones, 

 excepting the ultimate, reduced. 



Ocelli 22, arranged in 5 series (2, 5, 6, 6, 1 + 2). 



Presternal teeth 2-2. 



Coxse of last two pairs of legs armed dorsally and also dorso-laterally 

 at the furrow, which is more dorsal in position than usual. Anal legs 

 with claw unarmed; spines 1, 3, 2, 1. Claw of penult legs armed with 

 a single spine; spines 1, 3, 3, 1. Spines of first legs 2, 3, 2. 



Coxal pores small, round, 3, 3, 3, 3. 



In the male the femur of the anal legs is abruptly produced into a 

 lobe at its distal end above, and the tibiae is produced into a larger lobe 

 at its proximal end above adjacent to the femoral lobe, the lobe being 

 truncate above and somewhat bent distally. The penult legs have 

 the tibia produced into a moderate lobe at its distal end. 



Length 14 mm.; width of 10th dorsal plate 2.6 mm. 



Locality. — Las Vegas, New Mexico (Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell). 



One male. 

 Lithobius cookerelli sp. nov. 



Brown to chestnut, head darkest, some dorsal scuta in one specimen 

 with the posterior margin lined with dark and with a dark stripe along 

 middle; antennae concolorous with head or but little paler; legs light 

 brown. 



Angles of none of the dorsal plates produced. 



Antennae moderately long, articles 28-29, in length long and mod- 

 erate. 




652 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Ocelli 15, arranged in 4 series (5, 1 + 4, 3, 2), 



Presternal teeth 2-2, obtuse, those of each side close together and 

 toward middle. 



Three posterior pairs of coxae armed laterally with a stout spine, un- 

 armed beneath. Anal legs with claw unarmed; spines 1, 3, 3, 1. 

 Penult legs with claw armed with two spines; spines 1, 3, 3, 2-1, 3, 3, 3. 

 Spines of first legs 2, 3, 2. 



Coxal pores small, round, 4, 5, 5, 5. 



Claw of female gonopods entire, acute, short; basal spines 2-2, the 

 inner shortest. 



Length 22 mm.; width of 10th plate 2,6 mm. 



Locality.— New Mexico (Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell). 



Lithobius fungiferopes sp. nov. 



Dark purple-brown, head darkest, almost black; antennae rufous 

 distally; legs light purple-brown proximally, yellow distally. 



Posterior angles of 9th, 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced. 



Antennae short ; articles 20, mostly short. 



Presternal teeth 2-2. 



Posterior coxae unarmed. Anal legs with claw armed with a spine; 

 spines 1, 1, 0, 0! Penult legs with claw armed with one spine; spines 

 1, 1, 0, 0. Spines of first legs 0, 0, 0! 



Claw of female gonopods wide, short, tripartite; basal spines stout, 

 acute, subequal. 



Anal and penult legs of male strongly swollen; none of the joints of 

 anal legs produced into lobes, but the fifth joint of the penult legs bear- 

 ing at its distal end above a peculiar pilose process which is rounded 

 distally and constricted at base, fungiform. 



Length 5-6 mm. 



Locality. — Ithaca, New York. 



Not uncommon under fallen leaves in woods. 

 Lithobius euthus sp. nov. 



Brown, the first and the last dorsal scuta darker, reddish ; head red- 

 dish brown; antennae brown to reddish brown, paler distally. 



Angles of 11th and 13th dorsal plates produced in adults or some- 

 times nearly straight, this character being evidently variable in this 

 form. 



Antennae short (5.4 mm.) ; articles 25-28, moderate. 



Ocelli 8 in 3 series. 



Presternal teeth 2-2. 



Posterior coxae unarmed either ventrally or laterally. Anal legs 

 with claw armed wath a single spine ; spines 1, 3, 2, 0. Penult legs with 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 653 



claw armed with a single spine; spines 1, 3, 3, 2. Spines of first legs 

 1, 2, 1-1, 1, 1. 



Coxal pores small, round, 4(5), 4, 4, 4. 



Claw of female gonopods entire, long and acute; basal spines coni- 

 cally acuminate, the inner shorter. 



Length 15 mm.; width 2 mm. 



Locality. — Austin, Texas (Prof. J. H. Comstock). 



Lithobius navigans sp. nov. 



Reddish to purplish brown, the middle plates lightest; head yellow; 

 antennse dark brown basally, becoming yellow distally; presternum 

 and legs yellow; venter yellowish, the first and the last plates darker. 



None of the dorsal plates with posterior angles produced. 



Antennse short (2 mm.) ; articles 28 or 29, short. 



OcelH 12 in 3 series (5, 1 + 5, 1). 



Presternal teeth 2-2, small. 



Posterior coxse unarmed beneath or laterally. Anal legs wdth claw 

 armed with a single spine; spines 1, 3, 3, 1. Spines of penult legs 

 1, 3, 3, 1. Spines of first legs 0, 1, 1. 



Coxal pores 2, 3, 3, 2-3, 4, 4, 4, small, round. 



Claw of female gonopods tripartite, lobes acute, the middle longest; 

 basal spines 2-2, short, equal, a little clavatcly thickened upward and 

 then conically pointed. 



Length 7 mm. (c?)-7.5 mm. ( ? ). 



Locality. — Bermudas (Prof. J. H. Comstock). 



Several specimens, d^ and 9 . It is related to the European species 

 lapidicola Mein,, but is sufficiently distinct to warrant separation. In 

 the same collection were specimens of Lithobius provocator Poc, Mecis- 

 tocephalus guildingii Newp., and Julus moreleti Lucas, all previously 

 reported from this locahty. 



Peotiniunguis montereus sp. nov. 



Very similar in general appearance and structure to P. americanus 

 Boll., but readily separated from this as also from the other two previ- 

 ously described species by the fact that the anal legs are each armed 

 with a large claw. In plusiodontus Att. there is a mere vestige of a 

 claw, while in the other species there is no trace of one. 



The known species of this genus may be separated by means of the 

 following key: 



a. — Prebasal plate exposed. 



a'. — Anal legs armed with a claw, montereus sp. nov. 



b'. — ^Anal legs unarmed, americanus Boll. 




654 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



b. — Prebasal plate not exposed. 



a'. — Ventral pores not existing on segments beyond the 28th; 



pleural pores absent, europcBus Attems. 



b'. — Ventral pores on all plates from the first to the penult ; pleural 

 pores present, plusiodontus Attems. 



The specimens of montereus examined are, in alcohol, light brown 

 anteriorly and pale yellow posteriorly, the head being brown with the 

 frontal region lighter. The color seems to have faded in the alcohol 

 and in life was probably reddish. 



The two individuals have respectively 59 and 61 pairs of legs. They 

 are very gradually though conspicuously attenuated anteriorly, and 

 strongly and rapidly attenuated posteriorly. 



The cephalic plate is longer than wdde (6.4: 5.8) ; sides nearly straight 

 and but slightly converging caudad; the posterior angles well rounded; 

 posterior border truncate, not mesally at all incurved. 



Antennae moderate, the ultimate article distinctly shorter than the 

 two preceding together (1.5 : 2). 



Ventral pores and last ventral plate nearly as in americanus. 



Length of larger specimen 48 mm. 



Locality. — Pacific Grove, Bay of Monterey, California. 



Geophilus regnans sp. nov. 



Light brown, paler posteriori}^ Body wide anteriorly, attenuated 

 gradually posteriorly. 



Head large. 



Cephalic plate attenuated in front of middle ; anterior border broadly 

 triangular; sides behind straight and subparallel; posterior margin 

 wide, a little incurved mesally. Frontal plate coalesced. Prebasal 

 plate exposed at the middle, the basal plate being a little covered by 

 the cephalic laterally. Basal plate thrice wider than long. 



Claws of prehensorial feet when closed not attaining the front margin 

 of head ; presternum in front widely angularly emarginate, unarmed ; 

 all joints and the claw unarmed. 



Antennae very short, subsparsely pilose; the ultimate article about 

 equalling in length the two preceding together. 



Sulci of dorsal scuta not deep. 



Anterior spiracles oval, oblique, the first few large, the others gradu- 

 ally decreasing; median and posterior spiracles circular, small. 



Last ventral plate very wide, its sides convexly curving, moderately 

 converging posteriorly; posterior margin wide, gently incurved. Last 

 pleurae moderate in size; pores entirely covered by the ventral plate, 

 few, small. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 655 



Anal legs stouter and much longer than the penult, armed with a 

 long, stout claw; like the other legs, almost destitute of hair. 



Pairs of legs 79-81. 



Locality. — Southern California (Los Angeles, etc.). 



I am inclined to think this species the Strigamia cephalica of Wood. 

 But it is really a Geophilus, and a new name must under any conditions 

 be given to it, as the name cephalicus was previously given by Wood to 

 another species in this genus. 



Geophilus cayugae sp. nov. 



Body little attenuated anteriorly, strongly attenuated posteriorly. 



Cephalic plate with anterior and posterior margins truncate ; angles 

 well rounded; sides nearly straight, subparallel; longer than wide 

 (7.4 : 6.7). Frontal plate not distinctly separated. Basal plate two 

 and a half times wider than long. 



Claws of prchensorial feet when closed barely reaching the front 

 margin of head ; presternum with chitinous lines, front margin widely 

 angularly emarginate, unarmed; femur and claw also unarmed. 



First two spiracles large, subcircular, those following circular, gradu- 

 ally decreasing in size caudad, the last very small. 



Last ventral plate rather narrow; sides straight, converging pos- 

 teriorly. Last coxae enlarged, covered over entire exposed surface, 

 except posteriorly, with large and small pores, of which there are 30 or 

 more on each side. 



Anal pores distinct, of moderate size. 



First pair of legs much smaller and more slender than those following, 

 the second pair somewhat intermediate in size. Anal legs stouter and 

 much longer than the penult, each armed with a very long and slender 

 claw. 



Pairs of legs 65 ( ? ). Length 55 mm. 



Locality. — Ithaca, New York. 



Evidently close to lanius Br5l. In cayugw, however, the anal pores 

 are conspicuous, not concealed (absent?) as in lanius. Also the an- 

 tenna3 are relatively much shorter than in lanius, the cephalic plate is 

 of a different shape, the number of pleural pores is much larger and 

 cover the pleurse above as well as below and laterally, and the pairs of 

 legs number 65 ( 9 ) as against 57 ( 9 ) in lanius. 

 Mecistooephalus anomalus sp. nov. 



Body and legs waxy yellow; head pale, somewhat reddish brown; 

 antennae pale yellowish brown. 



Gradually attenuated from the head caudally. 



Cephalic plate longer than wide in ratio of 7 : 4.75; strongly nar- 




656 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept. 



rowed caudally, posterior margin truncate. Basal plate moderately- 

 narrowed, wider anteriorly than long in ratio of 3 : 2; pleiirse exposed 

 in usual manner. 



Antennae not attenuated distally, all articles excepting ultimate 

 obconic; ultimate article a little shorter than the two preceding 

 together; length 3.2 mm. 



Claws of prehensorial feet when closed reaching but slightly beyond 

 front margin of head; presternal teeth pale, obtuse; median furrow 

 of presternum wide, shallow, not well marked posteriorly; femora with 

 a stout, blunt black tooth, the next two joints with small, black 

 tubercle-like teeth, the claws with an acute tooth. 



Anterior prsescuta short but all distinctly exposed, the median and 

 posterior ones long. A number of anterior dorsal scuta with a distinct 

 median sulcus between the two lateral sulci. 



The anterior ventral scuta with a deep median sulcus which does 

 not attain the margin. 



Anterior spiracle large, oval, subvertical, the second and third of 

 similar form but smaller, those following circular, rapidly decreasing 

 in size, those of the middle and posterior region being very small. 



Last ventral plate wide, strongly narrowed caudally, the sides 

 straight. Last pleurae inflated, having along the edge of the ventral 

 plate on each side a row of 4 or 5 very small pores and at a distance on 

 middle part a clearly larger isolated single pore. 



Anal pore moderate. 



First pair of legs much shorter and more slender than the second. 

 Anal legs stouter and much longer than the penult pair. 



Pairs of legs 41( !). Length 22 mm. ; width 1 mm. 



Locality. — Pacific Grove, California. 



One male. 



This species cannot well be identified with the M. limatus of Wood, 

 which is apparently a much larger form. Aside from other minor 

 differences more or less uncertainly indicated by Wood's description, 

 the number of legs of limatus is given as "43-44," indicating that sev- 

 eral specimens were examined. The number 44 is, of course, an error; 

 but it is practically certain that the number of pairs of legs, which so 

 far as known is absolutely fixed for each species in this genus, was 43, 

 and not the unusual number 41, 

 Linotaenia rubelliana sp. nov. 



Color in life bright red, fading in alcohol to a uniform brown, the 

 antennae alone remaining somewhat brighter. 



Cephalic plate narrowed anteriorly, in front subnarrowly rounded, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 657 



behind widely truncate. Frontal plate clearly separated. Prebasal 

 plate well exposed. Basal plate twice wider than long, with no indi- 

 cation of a median furrow. 



Antennse short, attenuated distally, the ultimate joint little shorter 

 than the two preceding together; all articles sparsely hirsute with 

 short fine hairs. 



Claws of prehensorial feet when closed falling much short of the 

 front of the head; femora unarmed; tooth of claw large, acute; front 

 margin of presternum deeply excavated. 



All ventral scuta marked with a distinct median furrow, from the 

 posterior end of which extends outward over each half to the sides a 

 shallow^ oval impression in front of the posterior margin. 



Anterior spiracle moderate, a little elongate subvertically, the second 

 similarly shaped and but little smaller ; others circular, very gradually 

 decreasing in size caudally. 



Last ventral plate very wide; sides convexly rounded, strongly 

 converging caudally. 



Last pleurae much enlarged; pores serially arranged along and be- 

 neath the last ventral plate. 



Anterior pair of legs distinctly shorter and more slender, the legs 

 regularly increasing in size from the first to about the sixth pair. 



Anal pair of legs scarcely shorter than the penult, a little more slen- 

 der, armed with a claw. 



Pairs of legs 71-75. Length 60-82 mm,; width of largest specimen 

 2.2 mm. Length of antennae of largest specimen 4 mm. 



Locality. — Pacific Grove and Palo Alto, California, 



This large and handsome species cannot be the form described by 

 Wood under the name epileptica from an individual captured near 

 Puget's Sound, The latter species is apparently much more like im- 

 perialis BroL, the type of which comes from near the same locality. 

 According to the published descriptions and figures, these species agree 

 with each other and difTer from ruhelliana, among other points, in 

 having the prebasal plate covered and in the larger number of legs 

 (81-83 pairs). 




658 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scp 



STUDIES IN THE ORTHOPTEROUS SUBFAMILIES ACRYDIIN^ (TETTIGIN^), 

 EUMASTACIN^ AND PROSCOPIN^. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The material treated in the foHowing pages is contained in the 

 collections of the Academy, the United States National Museum and 

 of Mr. Morgan Hebard, of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia. The material 

 studied consisted of two hundred and twenty-seven specimens, repre- 

 senting forty-six species and thirty-one genera, of which one genus and 

 twelve species are described as new. The author wishes to thank Dr. 

 W. H. Ashmead, of the U. S. National Museimi, and Mr. Hebard for 

 their kindness in permitting the use of material. 



Subfamily ACRYDIIX^E (Tettigince auct.). 



Section Cladonotae. 



DASYLEUROTETTIXi n. gen. 



Allied to Diotarus and Trachytettix Stal, but differing from the former 

 in the presence of tegmina and wings, the rugulose vertex, deplanate 

 and scabrous pronotum, and the truncate character of the cephalic 

 margin of the same. From Trachytettix it is separated by the form of 

 the antennae, the unspined vertex, the longer cephalic femora and the 

 position of the antennae. 



Form depressed, subquadratc in transverse section at the humeral 

 angle ; surface scabrous. Facial scutellum with a V-shaped longitudi- 

 nal excavation, carinse distinct, subparallel ; antennae placed against 

 the carinae of the facial scutellum and distant from the eyes, apex of 

 width equal to the remainder of the appendage, vertex broad, about 

 twice the width of one of the eyes. Pronotum truncate cephalad, pro- 

 duced caudad beyond the tips of the caudal femora; humeral angle 

 prominent. Cephalic femora nearly three times as long as wide. 

 Caudal femora heavy and with the paginae moderately sculptured. 

 Posterior metatarsi distinctly longer than the third tarsal joints. 

 Dasyleurotettix curriei n. sp. 



Types: cT' and 9 ; Mount Coffee, Liberia. April, 1897. (R. P. 

 Currie.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8111.] 



Head short and broad; vertex transverse, the cephalic margin trun- 



1 daavg rough, /isvpog flat, tetti^ grasshopper. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 659 



cate and without a distinct frontal carina; median carina of the vertex 

 low, slightly projecting cephalad; facial scutellum longitudinal, sub- 

 parallel, the margins arcuate and the costa distinctly sinuate above 

 and below; antennae inserted on a level with the ventral margin of 

 the eyes, placed against the facial scutellum, when extended caudad 

 reaching to the humeral angle of the pronotum; eyes subpyriform in 

 outline, moderately prominent. Pronotum strongly depressed, arcuate 

 cephalad, closely and uniformly scabrous, obscurely lineato-rugose; 

 cephalic margin truncate; humeral angles broad, extended, depressed; 

 lateral lobes with the elytral sinus moderately deep, inferior sinus deep 

 and acute, caudal angle produced and apically truncate; lateral 

 carina scabro-denticulate, obsolete cephalad of the humeral angles; 

 median carina depressed, arcuate cephalad, caudad of the humeral 

 angles irregularly undulate; caudal process long, subulate, extending 

 caudad of the tips of the caudal femora. Tegmina cylindrical ovate, 

 the surface finely tuberculate. Wings large, extending slightly bej^ond 

 the apex of the caudal process of the pronotum. Ovipositor valves of 

 the female rather short, thick, serrato-dentate. Cephalic femora mod- 

 erately undulate dorsad and ventrad. Median femora undulate dor- 

 sad, trilobate ventrad. Caudal femora short, inflated, femoral lobe 

 short and thick, dorsal carina with several subobsolete points, ventral 

 carina with several subobsolete lobes, external pagina and dorso-lateral 

 face decorated with strong diagonal scabrous ridges; tibiae strongly 

 spined, the canthi minutely serrate; metatarsi slightly exceeding the 

 remaining tarsal joints in length, pulvilli subequal in length. 



General color bistre, the wings with the cephalic margin and a large 

 rounded spot covering the great part of the wing mummy brown, 

 median limbs barred with cinnamon, caudal limbs more or less regu- 

 larly blotched with obscure cinnamon. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 10.7 mm. 12 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 12.5 " 13 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 4.8 " 5.2 " 



Length of posterior femora, 6.5 " 7 " 



This curious genus and species is represented by a series of five males 

 and nine females, all of which are from Mount Coffee. Little variation 

 is exhibited by the series, a slight difference in the intensity of the 

 scabrous character of the pronotum being all that is noteworthy. I 

 take pleasure in dedicating this species to my friend Mr. Rolla P. 

 Currie, of the U. S. National Museum, who collected the types. 




660 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



PANTELIA Bolivar. 



1887. Pantelia Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, pp. 192, 214. 



Type. — P. cristulata Bolivar ( = Cladonotus horrendus Walker) .- 



Pantelia armata Bolivar. 



1893. Pantelia armata Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, LXII, p. 176. [Assini, 

 Ivory Coast.] 



Mount Coffee, Liberia. April, 1897. (R. P. Currie). [U. S. N. M.] 

 Three females. 



These individuals seem to agree very well with Bolivar's description 

 except that they are somewhat larger. Two of the three specimens 

 have the caudal process of the pronotum produced, the remaining indi- 

 vidual having the caudal femora hardly exceeded by the pronotum. 

 These two individuals possess well-developed wings, which extend 

 beyond the process of the pronotum. 



The genus Pantelia includes three species: P. horrendus (Walker') 

 (P. cristulata Bolivar), from Sierra Leone and the Ivory Coast; P. 

 armata Bolivar from Liberia and the Ivory Coast, and P. uncinata 

 Bolivar^ from Caconda, Angola. 



Section Scelimenae. 

 SCELIMENA ServiUe. 

 1839. Scelimena Serville, Orthopteres, p. 762. 

 Included Tetrix producta, harpago and uncinata Serville, of which the 

 first may be selected as the type. 



Scelimena abbotti n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Khow Sai Dow, Trong, Lower Siam; 1,000 feet. Janu- 

 ary-February, 1899. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 

 8112.] 



Closely allied to S. producta,^ but differing in the smaller size, the 

 narrower vertex, the slightly more compressed form, the uncurved 

 character of the spines on the lateral angles of the pronotum, and in 

 the absence of protuberances on the ventral carinse of the posterior 

 femora. 



Size medium; form elongate; surface minutely scabrous. Head 

 with the vertex very distinctly narrower than one of the eyes, sub- 

 truncate, declivent and rounded cephalad, median carina low but dis- 

 tinct; frontal costa forked between the ocelli; rami little divergent, 



2 Vide Karsch, Entom. Nachr., XVI, p. 27. 



3 Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, p. 842. 



* Jornal Scienc. Math. Phys. Nat. Lishoa, 2a ser., I, p. 217. 



^ Compared with a pair of S. producta presented by Dr. Saussure. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 661 



when viewed laterad distinctly arcuate and sinuate dorsad; antennae 

 slender, about two-thirds the length of the caudal femora, inserted on 

 a level with the ventral margin of the eyes; paired ocelli placed half- 

 way between the vertex and the insertion of the antennae; eyes sub- 

 globose, quite prominent, somewhat elevated. Pronotum elongate, 

 depressed dorsad, surface undulate with rounded boss-like elevations; 

 cephalic margin truncate, cephalic lateral spines short and blunt; 

 lateral carinas parallel cephalad; lateral spines strong, depressed, 

 directed laterad without any cephalic curve; inferior sinus rectangu- 

 late; humeral angle little extended and represented by the lateral 

 carinae; median carina low, fading caudad and subobsolete between the 

 sulci; elevations of the pronotum distributed as follows: one large 

 median boss in the interhumeral region, two series of paired protuber- 

 ances placed caudad; caudal process extending beyond the cau?fal 

 femora a distance equal to their length. Tegmina elongate, acuminate, 

 apex narrowly rounded, surface coarsely reticulate. Wings reaching to 

 the tip of pronotal process. Cephalic femora with the carinae undulate. 

 Median femora slenderer than the cephalic and wdth the carinae undu- 

 late. Caudal femora rather slender, sparsely granulate, carinae not 

 undulate or dentate, femoral lobe low and subobsolete, external pagina 

 and dorso-lateral face with strong oblique sculpture; tibiae with the 

 margins expanded, lamellate, unarmed but very finely serrate; meta- 

 tarsi about half again as long as the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color bistre, obscm'ely marked on the lateral carinae and the 

 pronotal spines with ferruginous. Cephalic and median limbs with 

 several obscure bands of wood brown. Caudal tarsi, margins and 

 proximal portions of the tibiae and two obscure bands on the dorsal 

 aspect of the femora wood brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 15 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 21.5 " 



Humeral width of pronotum, 4 " 



Greatest width of pronotum (including spines), .... 6.8 " 



Length of caudal femora, 8.5 " 



A paratypic female, identical with the type in all respects, has also 

 been examined. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this striking species to the collector. 

 Dr. W. L. Abbott, who by his tireless energy has placed in the hands 

 of American zoologists an enormous amount of valuable exotic mate- 

 rial. 




662 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



CRIOTETTIX Bolivar. 

 1887. CriofeUix Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, pp. 193, 226. 



Included tricarinatus, nexuosus, horrei, nigellus, saginatus, miliaris, 

 haeri, subulatus, vidali, perminutus, rugosus, insidiosus, pidcher, pnllus, 

 and clavitarsis Bolivar, nodulosus Stal, hrevis and emarginatus Haan 

 and bispinosus Dalman. Of these the last is the oldest and probably 

 the best known and may with justice be considered the type. 



Criotettix bispinosus (Dalman). 



1818. Acrydium hispinosum Dalman, Ivongl. Vetenskaps Academiens 

 Handlingar, 1S18, p. 77. [East India.] 



Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra, 

 August-September, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] One female. 



This species has a very extensive range, the territory covered includ- 

 ing Burma, Sumatra, Java, Borneo and China. The only previous 

 Sumatran record was from Batang Singalang, mentioned by Haan. 



Criotettix bispinosus japonicus (Haan). 



1839-44. A[cridium] (Tetrix) bispinosutn var. Japonica Haan, Bijdragen 

 Kennis Orthoptera in Verhandl. Natuurl. Geschied., p. 169. 



Loo Choo Islands, Japan. (Through Y. Hirase.) Nine males, eight 

 females. [A. N. S. Phila., and Hebard Coll.] 



These specimens represent a well-marked geographic race of bispi- 

 nosus, characterized by the more apparent linear rugosities on the pro- 

 notum and the slightly broader fastigium. 



Section Metrodorse. 

 SYSTOLEDERUS Bolivar. 

 1887. Sj/stolederus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, pp. 194, 234, 

 Included ang usticeps a,nd uncinatus Sia\ , cephcdiciis Haan, and ophthal- 

 micus, haani and languidus Bolivar; of which haani is well figured and 

 may be considered the type. 



Systolederus cephalicus (Haan). 



1839-44. A[cridium] (Tetrix) cephcdicum Haan, Bijdragen Kennis Orthoptera, 

 in Verhandl. Natuurl. Geschied., p. 169. [Batang Singalang, Sumatra.] 



Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra. 

 August-September, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) 

 [A, N. S. Phila.] Three males, four females. 



These specimens appear to represent this species which is known 

 only from Haan's brief description. Bolivar, having never seen the 

 species, was unable to add any information to the original description. 

 The possession of a pair of more or less apparent post-humeral spots of 

 velvety black is shared by all the specimens, which are, however, 

 somewhat smaller than Haan's measurements. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 663 



MAZARREDIA Bolivar. 

 1887. Mazarredia Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 194, 236. 



Included sculpta, remissa, semperi, abbreviata, insularis, atypa, lauta, 

 gemella, celebica and centrosa Bolivar, gallinacea, fuscipes and rufipes 

 Stal. As gemella is the only species figured it can be selected as the 

 type. 

 Mazarredia aptera n. sp. 



Type : c? ; Island of Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Differing from all the previously known species of the genus, except 

 M. minuta and truncata Bolivar, in the absence of tegmina and wings, 

 and from these two species it can readily be distinguished by the 

 greater size and acute caudal process of the pronotum. 



Size medium; form depressed; surface scabrous. Head with the 

 occiput not elevated above the level of the pronotum; vertex truncate, 

 about equal to one of the eyes in width, median carina projecting con- 

 siderably beyond the cephalic margin, lateral carinse distinct but by 

 no means as apparent as the median, no frontal carina present; frontal 

 costa forked slightly above the ocelli, rami considerably divergent, 

 moderately arcuate when viewed laterad and sinuate dorsad ; antennae 

 inserted on a level wdth the ventral margin of the eyes; median ocellus 

 placed distinctly ventrad of the antennse, paired ocelli placed between 

 the middle of the eyes; eyes subovoid, moderately prominent. Pro- 

 notum depressed above, subconcave; cephalic margin very broadly 

 and obtusely angulate; humeral angle not prominent; caudal process 

 not exceeding the apex of the abdomen and not reaching the tips of 

 the caudal femora, gradually acuminate to a short distance from the 

 apex where it becomes sharply acuminate with the apex hastate and 

 slightly subulate ; posterior angle of the lateral lobes moderately pro- 

 duced and rectangularly extended when viewed dorsad, apically trun- 

 cate, inferior sinus rectangulate, elytral sinus represented by a very 

 slight emargination; median carina slight, cephalad of the humeral 

 angles very slightly arcuate and elevated, undulate caudad; lateral 

 carinae obsolete cephalad, arcuate caudad of the humeral angles. No 

 tegmina or wings present. Cephalic and median femora not appreci- 

 ably undulate. Caudal femora short, strongly inflated, dorsal and 

 ventral margins evenly arcuate, femoral lobe short, blunt, external 

 pagina and dorso-lateral face with distinct but rather low sculpture; 

 tibiae well supplied with low blunt spines, canthi sparsely and weakly 

 serrulate; metatarsi equal to the third tarsal joint in length, pulvilli 

 low. 




664 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



General color vandykc brown, obscurely marked along the carinse 

 of the pronotum ^vith and having annulations on the limbs of pale cinna- 

 mon. The pale annulations on the caudal femora are much narrower 

 than the dark bands, and on the caudal tibiae but one distinct annulus 

 is present, that being preapical; genicular regions of the caudal femora 

 blackish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 11 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 9.8 " 



Width across humeral angles of the pronotum, .... 4 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 5.2 " 



Length of caudal femora, 7.8 " 



The type is the only specimen of this species seen. 



CHIRIQUIA Morse. 

 1900. Chiriquia Morse^ Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, pp. 5, 6. 

 Type. — C. serrata Morse. 

 Chiriquia serrata Morse. 



1900. Chiriquia serrata Morse, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 7, fig. 

 [Castillo, Nicaragua; Volcan de Chiriqui, 2,500 to 4,000 feet, Panama. 



Carrillo, Costa Rica. [Hebard Coll.] One immature male. 



This individual presents several characters which are more or less 

 at variance with Morse's figure, the head being more compressed and 

 with the carinse of the vertex developed into distinct erect processes, 

 and the median carina of the pronotum has but two distinct undulations. 

 As the specimen is immature these differences in all probability are 

 due to the stage of the insect. 



AMOKPHOPUS Serville. 

 1S39. Amorphopus Serville, Orthopteres, p. 756. 

 Type. — A. notahilis Serville. 



Amorphopus antennatus Bolivar. 



1887. A[morphopus] antennatus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, 

 p. 251, figs. 19, 19a-&. [Upper Amazon.] 



Venezuela. [A. N. S. Phila.] One female. 



MITRARIA Bolivar. 

 1887. Mitraria Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 194, 253. 

 Included M. producta Bolivar and phyllocera (Haan), of which the 

 former may be considered the type, as phyllocera was apparently 

 unrepresented in the material studied by Bolivar. 

 Mitraria pontificalis n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Mount Coffee, Liberia. February, 1897. (R. P. Currie.) 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8113.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 665 



Differing from either of the previously known species of the genus 

 in the unarmed margins of the cephahc process, and in the smaller 

 size. The generic diagnosis given by Bolivar will require some modi- 

 fication to include this form, as the antennse are inserted between the 

 eyes and the metatarsi of the caudal limbs are distinctly longer than 

 the third tarsal joint. 



Size rather small; form elongate; surface finely granulose. Head 

 with the cephalic process produced a distance before the eyes equal 

 to the greatest length of one of the latter, depressed dorsad, acute, the 

 apex rounded, margins entire and carinate, median carina distinct; 

 face distinctly declivent; frontal costa forked slightly cephalad of the 

 ocelli; rami slightly divergent; median ocellus inserted on a level with 

 the ventral margin of the eyes, paired ocelli placed directly between 

 the eye; eyes subtrigonal, hardly prominent; antennae short, very 

 slender, apex acute, inserted directly between the eyes and equi- 

 distant from them and the frontal costa. Pronotum slender, very 

 elongate, caudal process extending beyond the tips of the caudal 

 femora a distance about equal to their length, very slightly subu- 

 late; cephalic margin very broadly obtuse-angulate ; dorsum slightly 

 arched transversely; median and lateral carinse distinct, the inter- 

 humeral region bearing a pair of short accessory carinse placed on 

 each side of the median carina; lateral lobes with the posterior angle 

 acute, inferior sinus rectangulate, elytral sinus slight. Tegmina 

 cylindrical ovate. Wings extending sHghtly beyond the apex of the 

 caudal process of the pronotum. Cephalic and median femora with 

 their margins very slightly undulate. Caudal femora slender, margins 

 evenly curved, genicular spine distinct and acute, femoral lobe distinct, 

 external pagina with distinct but irregular diamond-shaped sculpture ; 

 tibise slightly sinuate, armed apically with distinct spines, canthi 

 minutely serrulate; metatarsi equal to the remaining tarsal joints in 

 length, the two apical pulvilli each slightly longer than the basal one. 



General color wood brown, irregular dotted and blotched along the 

 caringe with vandyke brown; face blackish brown; eyes ecru drab. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 10.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 13 " 



Humeral width of pronotum, 2 " 



Length of posterior femora, 5.2 " 



A paratypic female has been studied in addition to the type. 



43 




666 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept. 



Section Tettigiae. 

 PROTOTETTIX Bolivar. 

 1887. Prototettix Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 195, 255. 

 Included P. fossulatus Bolivar, and impressus and lohulatus (Stal); 

 of which Bolivar's species may be considered the type. 



Prototettix fossulatus Bolivar. 



1887. P[rototettix] fossulatus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, p. 256. 

 [Apiahy, Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



Lota, Chile. January, 1904. (C. S. Reed.) [A. N. S. Phila.] 

 Three males. 



These specimens fully agree with Bolivar's description, except that 

 the pagina of the caudal limbs are elevated into plicate ridges as in 

 lohulatus. From lohulatus, however, they differ in the partially hidden 

 tegmina, the sinuate ventro-caudal margins of the pronotum and the 

 more apparent median carina. As the original description was based 

 on a female these specimens are materially smaller than the measure- 

 ments given by Bolivar. 



ACRYDIUM Geoffroy. 

 1764. Acrydium Geoffroy, Hist. Abreg. Insect, I, p. 390.'' 

 Included six non-binomial species, the genus being later restricted 

 by Fabricius^ to include but two species, hipundatum and suhulatum, of 

 which two the latter may be considered the type. 



Acrydium japonioum (Bolivar). 



1887. T[ettix] japonicus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, p. 263. 

 [Japan.] 



Kyoto, Japan. (Y. Hirase, No. 41.) [A. N. S. Phila., and Hebard 

 Coll.] Twenty-nine males, eighteen females. 



This species is a close relative of A. tilrki (Krauss), and also bears a 

 superficial resemblance to the American genus Neotettix. It is, how- 

 ever, a member of the genvis Acrydium in the restricted sense. 



PARATETTIX Bolivar. 

 1887. ParateUix Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 195, 270. 



Included twenty-eight species, of which peruvianus and cayennensis 

 have been removed to Allotettix, schochii made the type of Clypeotettix, 

 and fallax and aztecus placed in Telmatettix. Of the remaining species 

 the only European one can be considered the type, meridionalis Ram- 

 bur. 



^ The edition of 1762 is not available for examination, but that of 1764 is said 

 to be identical, except for a few minor details. 

 ' Syst. Ent., pp. 278, 1775. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 667 



Paratettix frey-gessnerii Bolivar. 



1887. P[aratettix] Frey-Gessnerii Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, 

 p. 276. [Cuba.] 



Portland, Jamaica. (Johnson and Fox.) [A. N. S. Phila.] One 

 male. 



The similarity of this species to the Old World P. meridionalis is, as 

 noticed by Bolivar, very striking. 



Paratettix caudatus (Saussure). 



1861. T\ettix\ caudata Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, 

 p. 399. [Guiana.] 



Bartica, British Guiana. April 2 and May 11 and 12, 1901. (R. J. 

 Crew.) [A. N. S. Phila.] Two males, three females. 



One of these specimens has the coloration more contrasted than the 

 others, the interhumeral region being bright ochraceoiis margined pos- 

 teriorly by a broken line of velvety black. 



Paratettix mexicanus (Saussure). 



1861 . T[ettix] mexicana Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., XIII, 

 p. 400. [Tropical Mexico.] 



Monte Redondo, Costa Rica. January, 1903. (C. F. Underwood.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] Two males. 



This species has previously been recorded from Volcan de Irazu, 

 Costa Rica. 



Paratettix scaber (Thunberg). 



1815. A[(:rijdiu)7i] scabru n Thunljerg, Nova Acta Reg. Soc. Sclent. Upsal., 

 VII, p. 159. [Cape of Good Hope.] 



Congo. [U. S. Nat. Mus.] Two males, three females. 



This species has been recorded from Gaboon, Zanzibar, Caffreria, 

 Lourenco Marquez, and East Indies by Bolivar, and from Adeli, Togo- 

 land, by Karsch. 



Paratettix histricus (Stil). 



1860. Tetrix histrica Stal, Kong. Svenska Freg. Eugenies Resa, Ins., p. 347. 

 [Java.] 



Loo Choo Islands, Japan. (Through Y. Hirase, No. 71.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila., and Hebard Coll.] Two males, seven females. 



This has previously been recorded from localities reaching from 

 Sumatra to the Philippines, including North Australia and New Cale- 

 donia. 



CLYPEOTETTIX Hancock. 



1902. Chjpeoteitix Hancock, The Tettigida; of North America, pp. 36, 124. 



Type. — Paratettix schocki (laps. p. schochii) Bolivar. 



Clypeotettix schochii (Bolivar)? 



1887. P[arateUix] schochii Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, p.''274 

 [Guatemala; Mexico] 




668 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Venezuela. [A. N. S. Phila.] One male. 



Chinandega, Nicaragua. (C. F. Baker.) [A. N. S. Phila.] One male. 



These specimens are questionably assigned to this species, as they 

 are much smaller and more rugose than Mexican individuals which 

 undoubtedly represent schochii. It is very probable the two above 

 listed specimens represent a new species, but in view of the known 

 variability of schochii I should hesitate to describe them. 



HEDOTETTIX Bolivar. 

 1887. Hedotettix Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 195, 283. 

 Included ten species, of which the first and oldest — gracilis Haan — 

 may be considered the type. 



Hedotettix gracilis (Haan). 



1839-44. A[cridium] (Tetrix) gracile Haan, Bijdragen Kennis Orthoptera, in 

 Verhandl. Natuurl. Geschied., p. 169. [Ivrawang, Tondano.] 



Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One 

 male. 



Batu Sangkar, Tanah Datar, Padangsche Bovenland, Sumatra, 

 August-September, 1901. (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] One male. 



This species has been recorded from Burma by Brunner/ and if he 

 is'correct in synonymizing H. festivus it is also found in Ceylon. As 

 far as the character of the median femora goes, the specimens men- 

 tioned above support his contention, as, although true gracilis, they 

 have the median femora heavier and with the carinse more arcuate 

 than in the cephalic pair. The cephalic margin of the pronotum is 

 obtuse-angulate in both specimens. 



ALLOTETTIX Hancock. 



1899. Allotettix Hancock, Ent. News., X, p. 276. 



Type. — Allotettix prolongatus Hancock. 



Allotettix peruvianus (Bolivar). 



1887. P[aratetHx] 'peruvianus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, p. 272. 

 [Pumamarca, Peru.] 



CarriUo, Costa Rica. [Hebard Coll.] Seven males, five females. 

 This species has previously been recorded from Panama and Darien, 

 in addition to the type locality. 



Allotettix cayennensis (Bolivar). 



1887. P[aratettix] cayennensis Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, p. 273. 

 [Cayenne.] 



Bartica, British Guiana. April and May, 1901. (R. J, Crew.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] Eight males, three females. 

 * Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, XXXIII, p. HI. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 669 



Section BatrachidesB. 

 TETTIGIDEA Scudder. 

 1862. TeUigidea Scudder, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 476. 

 Type. — T. lateralis (Say). 



Tettigidea pulchella n. sp. 



Type: $ ; Bartica, British Guiana. April 27, 1901. (R. J. Crew.) 

 [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Differing from all the other species of the genus in the truncate 

 fastigium. 



Size rather small; form moderately elongate; surface scabrous. 

 Head with the vertex about equal to one of the eyes in width, truncate 

 cephalad and projecting but slightly cephalad of the eyes, not exca- 

 A^ated, median carina distinct and rather prominent, frontal carina 

 distinct; frontal costa arcuate when viewed laterad, rami very slight 

 and very gradually diverging; antennae inserted between the ventral 

 portions of the eyes; eyes subtrigonal in outline, slightly prominent. 

 Pronotum subtectate, caudal process reaching the tips of the o\aposi- 

 tors but not of the caudal femora; cephalic margin rectangulate, pro- 

 duced centrally into an acute spine; median carina distinct, moderately 

 arcuate cephalad; lateral carinae obsolete between the sulci; humeral 

 angles not projecting; posterior process of the lateral lobes rectangulate, 

 inferior sinus long but not very deep, elytral sinus acutely cut. Teg- 

 mina cylindrical ovate, apex broad and blunt. Wings slightly exceed- 

 ing the caudal process of the pronotum. Cephalic femora with the 

 dorsal sulci distinct but shallow. Caudal femora rather short and 

 heavy, the dorsal outline strongly arcuate, the ventral outline nearly 

 straight, femoral lobe sharp and projecting, genicular spine short and 

 blunt, margins finely serrate, external pagina and dorso-Iateral face 

 shall owly but distinctly sculptured; tibise rather strongly armed, 

 canthi serrate; metatarsi equal to the third joint in length. 



General color bistre, inclining toward cinnamon below; antennae 

 tawny proximad, blackish distad; cephalic and median limbs more or 

 less distinctly annulate with the darker shade on a cinnamon ground. 



Measureme7its. 



Length of body, ... 9.8 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 9 " 



Humeral width of pronotum, 2.5 " 



Length of caudal femora, 6 " 



The type is the only specimen which has been examined. 




670 PROCEEDINGS OF THE acade:my OF [Sept, 



SAUSSURELLA Bolivar. 



1897. Saussurella Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. Belg., XXXI, pp. 196, 303. 

 Type. — S. cornuta (Haan). 



Saussurella sumatrensis Bolivar. 



1898. Saussurella sumatrensis Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Genova, 

 XXXIX, p. 80. [Pangherang-Pisang, Sumatra.] 



Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 1901. 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) [A. N. S. Phila.] Two 

 males. 



As the specimens examined by Bolivar were females, the measure- 

 ments of a male individual may be of interest. Length of body 

 12.5 mm., length of pronotum 16.5, length of pronotal process 2.7, 

 length of caudal femora 7. 



Section TripetaloceraB. 

 DISCOTETTIX Costa. 

 1864. Discotettix Costa, Annuario ]\Ius. Zool. Univ. Napoli, II, p. 59. 

 Tjrpe. D. armatus Costsi= Tetj^ix helzebuth Serville. 

 Discotettix belzebuth (Serville). 



1839. Tetrix Belzebuth Serville, Orthopteres, p. 759. [Java.] 

 Ena Balu, British North Borneo. [Hebard Coll.] One male, two 

 females. 



Island of Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Coll.] One 

 female. 



One of the Kina Balu females has the pronotum not exceeding the 

 tips of the caudal femora. 



Subfamily EUMASTACIN.E. 

 Section Ohoroetypi. 



ORCHETYPUS Brunner. 



1898. Orchetypus Brunner, Abhandl. Senckenb. Xaturfor. Gesell., XXI^' 

 heft 2, p. 220. 



Included 0. rotundatus and subtruncatus Brunner, of which the latter 

 may be considered the type as it is figured. 

 Orchetypus ocreatus n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Luebo, Congo. (D. W. Snyder.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 No. 8114.] 



Closely allied to the Ceylonese 0. ceylonicus Karsch, but differing in 

 the strongly sinuate caudal portion of the median carina of the prono- 

 tum, the larger spines on the caudal tibice, the more subequal tegmina 

 and the shorter caudate apex of the wings. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 671 



Size large; form compressed; surface riigulose. Head with the occi- 

 put and vertex ascending; fastigium produced, elevated, not retrorse, 

 slightly antrorse, acute, apex truncate with a slight median cmargina- 

 tion, median carina present dorsad and cephalad; face flattened, 

 slightly concave, much as in 0. ceylonicus; infra-ocular carinae very 

 sharp; frontal costa with a flask-shaped expansion between the an- 

 tennae; antennse short, but slightly exceeding the greatest length of 

 the eye; eyes crudely elongate-ovate, distinctly shorter than the infra- 

 ocular portion of the gense, little prominent. Pronotum strongly com- 

 pressed ; median crest strongly elevated, produced over the head almost 

 to the tip of the fastigium, very slightly arcuate in the cephalic half, 

 bisinuate on caudal half; caudal process acute, slightly recurved at 

 the apex; lateral lobes about as high as long, cephalic and caudal 

 margins straight, inferior margin truncato-sinuate. Tegmina elongate, 

 lanceolate; apex acuminate, narrowly rounded, exceeding the tips of 

 the caudal femora; costal margin strongly dilated proximad. Wings 

 equal to the tegmina in length, tips caudal and extending beyond the 

 major portion of the wing a distance equal to one-fifth the total length 

 of the member. Ovipositor valves with the margins crasso-dentate. 

 Cephalic femora dilated, pyramidical in outline the apex proximal; 

 tibiae slightly bowed. Median femora with the dorsal carina slightly 

 elevated and arcuate, the cephalo-ventral carina moderately lamellate 

 distad; tibiae straight. Caudal femora heavy, dorsal carina arcuate 

 and strongly serrato-dentate, ventral carina minutely serrate, external 

 pagina with an irregular rhomboid pattern; tibiae slightly sinuate dis- 

 tad, proximal section with an acute trigonal lobe on the dorsal surface, 

 spines on the internal margin larger than those on the external ; meta- 

 tarsi slightly shorter than the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color tawny-olive, suffused on the dorsal half of the pro- 

 notum with raw umber ; a broad bar of buff covering the genae and the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum, the distal half of the caudal femora, the 

 proximal half of the caudal tibiae and the cephalic and median femora 

 irregularly blotched and suffused with the same tint. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 38.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 13 " 



Greatest depth of pronotum 11 " 



Length of tegmina, 21.5 " 



Length of caudal femora, 17 " 



The type is unique. 




672 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



PLAGIOTRIPTUS Karsch. 

 1889. Plagiotriphis Karsch, Entom. Nachr., XV, p. 8. 

 Type. — Plagiotriptus hippiscus (Gerstaecker). 



Plagiotriptus hippiscus (Gerstaecker). 



1873. Choroetypus hippiscus Gerstaecker, Von der Decken's Reisen in Ost- 

 Afrika, Bd. Ill, Abth. 2, p. 42, taf. 2, fig. 8. [Mombasa.] 



Mombasa, East Africa. [Hebard Coll.] One female. 



Section Erianthi. 



ERIANTHUS Stai. 



1876. Erianthus Stal, Ofversigt af K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 1876, 

 No. 3, p. 55. 



Type. — According to Biirr^ Mastax guttata Westwood. 



Erianthus nipponensis n. sp. 



Type: $ ; Nikko, Hondo, Japan. [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8115.] 

 Belong to the group comprising E. guttatus Westwood, flavoinflatus 

 Brunner and acutipennis Saussure. From all of these it differs in having 

 the f astigium unreflexed ; from guttatus it also differs in the lower and 

 more obtuse fastigium; from flavoinflatus in the smaller size, obliquely 

 truncate apical portion of the tegmina, and non-dentate cephalic mar- 

 gin of the pronotum, and from acutipennis in the form of the tips of 

 the tegmina and the rotund ato-angulate caudal margin of the prono- 

 tum. Considerable affinity exists also with E. ohtusus Burr, but that 

 species has the fastigium obtuse. 



Size rather large; form elongate. Head with the occiput and vertex 

 sharply ascending, the fastigium elevated above the eyes a distance 

 equal to half the length of the latter, not re flexed, rectangulate, a 

 median carina present on both the dorsal and cephalic aspects; frontal 

 costa with the interantennal expansion elongate pyriform, the costal 

 carinse apparent almost to the clypeus ; antennae inserted slightly below 

 the middle of the eyes; eyes elongate ovate, moderately prominent. 

 Pronotum hardly selliform, slightly tectate, median carina distinct, 

 somewhat undulate; cephalic margin sinuato-truncate with a distinct 

 median emargination ; caudal margin obtuse-angulate with the angle 

 rounded; dorsal surface strongly rugose, transverse sulci not apparent; 

 lateral lobes slightly longer than the caudal depth, inferior margin 

 obliquely sinuate, cephalo-ventral angle broadly rounded, caudo-ven- 

 tral angle rectangulate. Tegmina reaching to the apex of the abdomen, 

 enlarged apically and obliquely truncate. Wings ample, as long as the 

 tegmina. Ovipositor valves with the teeth decidedly crassate and 



Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 103. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 673 



blunt; subgenital plate acute, with a distinct median sulcus. Caudal 

 femora slender, falling slightly short of the apex of the abdomen, the 

 dorsal and dorso-lateral carinse sparsely serrato-dentate, genicular 

 lobes spinose, genicular spine acute; tibise slightly sinuate, the spines 

 of the internal margin longer than those of the external margin; meta- 

 tarsi about equal to the remaining tarsal joints in length, dorsal carina? 

 serrato-dentate. 



General color raw umber; the head inclining toward cinnamon, 

 eyes vandyke brown; tegmina with a preapical hyaline spot on both 

 the cephalic and caudal margins; caudal femora wood brown with 

 three obscure annuli of darker brown; caudal tibiae of the general tint 

 with several obscure annuli of wood brown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 30 mm. 



Length of pronotmii 4.2 " 



Length of tegmina, 22 " 



Length of caudal femora, 15 " 



The t3rpe is unique. 



Erianthus malcolmi Bolivar. 



1903. Erianthus Malcolmi Bolivar, Boletin Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., Ill, p. 

 302. [Malacca, Kwala, Lumpur, Strait Settlements.] 



Trong, Lower Siam. (Dr. W. L. Abbott.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] Three 



males. 



These specimens fully agree with Bolivar's description, except that 



the face, the lateral lobes of the pronotum and the anal area of the 



tegmina are suffused with dull greenish, which is probably due to the 



condition of the specimens. 



Section Erucii. 



ERUCIUS St&l. 



1875. Erucius Stal, Bihang till K. SvenskaVetens.-Akad. Handl., Ill, No. 

 14, p. 36. 



Type. — Mastax agrionoides Haan. 



Erucius vitreus (Wcstwood). 



1845. Mastax vitrea Westwood, Arcana Entom., I, p. ICO, PI. 2G, fig. 2. 

 [Java.] 



Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 1901. 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller.) [A. N. S. Phila.] Two 

 males, one female. 



It is worthy of note that the specimens examined by Brunner^" and 



10 Ahhandl. Senckenb. Naturf. Gesellsch., XXIV, heft 2, p. 227. 




674 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.., 



considered vitreus are not Westwood's species, an examination of the 

 measurements of the two making this fact very apparent. The male 

 of vitreus has the subgenital plate acuminate instead of truncate as 

 described by Brunner. 



Erucius magnificus n. sp. 



71898. Erucius vitreus Brunner, Abhandl. Senckenb. Naturf. Gesellsch., 

 XXIV, heft 2, p. 227. 



Type : $ ; Island of I.abuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



This species may be separated from vitreus Westwood by its larger 

 size and more ample tegmina and wings. As no males have been 

 examined it is possible that it represents the female of E. pictus Saus- 

 sure," based on the male only. 



Size large; form as usual in the genus. Head strongly elevated, 

 the occiput and vertex sharply ascending, the interocular region quite 

 narrow, about half as wide again as the frontal costa at its widest part; 

 frontal costa narrow, strongly compressed at the ocelli, subequal below 

 except for a slight widening at the median ocellus, rather deeply sulcate ; 

 antennae very short, the insertion strongly crowded between the eyes 

 and the frontal costa; eyes subelliptical, moderately prominent. 

 Pronotum selliform; cephalic margin sinuato-truncate, caudal margin 

 arcuate ; prozona with three distinct transverse ridges, metazona reticu- 

 late with a slight median carina; lateral lobes slightly deeper than 

 long, cephalo-ventral angle obtuse, caudo-ventral angle rectangulate, 

 ventral margin oblique, sinuate. Tegmina large, exceeding the apex 

 of the abdomen by more than one-fourth their length, considerably ex- 

 panded at the tips, costal margin strongly arcuate distad,apex oblic^uely 

 truncate. Wings equal to the tegmina in length. Ovipositor valves 

 punctate, the margins crasso-dentate ; subgenital plate apically acute 

 with a slight median longitudinal depression. Caudal femora slender, 

 falling slightly short of the tips of the ovipositor valves, the distal half 

 slender, dorsal and dorso-lateral carinse sparsely serrato-dentate; tibiae 

 slightly sinuate in the proximal half, external spines decidedly smaller 

 than the internal ones; metatarsi slightly shorter than the remaining 

 tarsal joints, superior carinse serrato-dentate. 



General color (specimen discolored) bistre, the face washed with 

 cinnamon; tegmina tawny olive, with two faint oblique apical bars of 

 umber parallel with the apical margin; caudal femora with faint traces 

 of several annuli of a light shade; caudal tibiae marmorate with umber 

 on a wood brown ground. 



" Revue Suisse de Zoologie, XI, fasc. I, p. 85, fig. 13. [Nanza-Badan, Borneo.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 675 



Measurements. 



Length of jjody, 30.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.8 " 



Length of tegmina, 30.5 " 



Length of caudal femora, 16.5 " 



Two females of this species have been studied, the additional speci- 

 men being in every way identical with the type. 

 Erucius dimidiatipes Bolivar. 



1898: Erucius dimidiatipes Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Civ. Stor. Nat. Geneva, 

 XXXIX, p. 81. [Si-Rambe, Sumatra.] 



Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra. October-November, 190L 

 (A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Killer.) [A. N. S. Phila.] Two 

 males. 



The basal portion of the caudal femora of these specimens have re- 

 tained their original color, which is Chinese orange. By an unfortu- 

 nate transposition in Burr's key the femora of this species are de- 

 scribed as ''basi nigra, apice pallida," while Bolivar's original reads: 

 "Femora postica pallida, dimidio apicali nigro." 



Section Eumastaces. 

 EUMASTAX Burr. 

 1899. Eumastax Burr, Anal. Soc. Espail. Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 257. 

 Type. — Mastax tenuis Perty. 



Eumastax dentatus Saussure. 



1903. Eumastax dentatus Saussure, Revue Suisse de Zoologie, XI, fasc. I, 

 p. 91. [Palmares, Costa Rica.] 



Carrillo, Costa Rica. [Hebard Collection.] One male, one female. 

 Costa Rica. (Schild and Bergdorf.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male. 

 The female individual is somewhat smaller than Saussure's measure- 

 ments, but otherwise is identical. 



PAEAMASTAX Burr. 



1899. Paramastax Burr, Anal. Soc. Espafi. Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 268. 



Type. — Mastax nigra Scudder. 



Paramastax magna (Giglio-Tos). 



1898. M[astax] magna Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zoolog. Anat. Comp XIII 

 No. 311, p. 38. [Valley of Santiago, Ecuador.] 



Pichesjand Perene Valleys, Peru, 2,000-3,000 feet. (Soc. Geog. de 

 Lima.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male. 



The'male of this species is said by Burr to have the face unicolor, but 

 in the individual before me it and the genae are marked with a broad 

 band_of yellowish, as in Iceta. personata and other species. The charac- 




676 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



ters of the cerci and the coloration of the limbs, however, place it in 

 magna, the aljsence of the facial decoration in Burr's species possibly 

 being due to the fact that his specimens were from Mexico, and for that 

 reason representing another species. As far as can be made from 

 Giglio-Tos' diagnosis of the female this specimen is his species. 



MASYNTES Karsch. 

 1SS9. Masyntes Karsch, Entom. Nachr., XV, pp. 26, 31. 

 Type. — Mastax gundlachii Scudder. 



Masyntes borellii Giglio-Tos. 



1897. Masyntes Borellii Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 XII, No. 302, p. 17. [San Pedro, Paraguay.] 



Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. April. (H. H. Smith.) [U. S. 

 Nat. Mus.] One male, one female. 



The female specimen agrees very well with the original description, 

 except that the size is slightly less. The subgenital plate of the male 

 is more produced and acute than in tigris, while the fastigium is more 

 distinctly truncate, with a very slight median emargination which is 

 more apparent in the male than in the female. The orange maculation 

 on the dorsal surface involves two segments in the male instead of one 

 as in the female, and the lateral lobes of the pronotum are subequal in 

 depth, not produced ventrad as seen in M. tigris. 



Masyntes tigris Burr. 



1899. Masyntes Tigris Burr, Anal. Soc. Espaii. Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 276. 

 [Paraguay.] 



Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil. March (Highland). (H. H. 

 Smith.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] Two males. 



Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. October (Campo). (H. H. Smith.) 

 [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male. 



The Chapada individual has the tegmina but half the length of those 

 organs in the Corumba specimens. This species is considerably larger 

 than borellii, but very closely related. 



Section Thericleis. 



THERICLES Stdl. 



1875. Thericles Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, III 

 No. 14, p. 35. 



Included T. ohtusifrons and com'pressijroris Stal; the latter since 

 having been removed to Pseudothericles leaves as the type ohtusifrons. 



Thericles gnu Karsch. 



1896. Thericles gnu Karsch, Stettin Entom. Zeit., LVII, p. 248. [PtU 

 Nsororo, 2,000 m.. East Central Africa.] 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 677 



Liiebo, Congo. (D. W. Snyder.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male, 

 one female. 



As far as can be determined from Karsch's rather meagre descrip- 

 tion of a female, the above specimens represent his species. Differ- 

 ence is noted in the unicolorous face, the limbs, however, being suffused 

 with blackish, which is limited on the caudal femora to the distal half. 

 The male is gaily colored as in T. zebra and is but slightly smaller, but 

 the genae are solid yellowish from the eye down, the caudal margin of 

 the lateral lobes of the pronotum are more broadly yellowish than the 

 cephalic, the ventral margin is blacldsh, and the lateral aspect of 

 the proximal abdominal segments are almost solid black. The apex 

 of the male abdomen is strongly clavate, recurved and directed cepha- 

 lad; the subgenital plate is inflated, subcylindrical, elongate; cerci 

 simple, styliform, hidden under the subgenital plate. 



Subfamily PROSCOPIXiE. 

 CORYNORHYNCHUS Brunner 

 1890. Corynorhynchus Brunner, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-Bot. Gesell., Wien, 

 XL, p. 101. 



Included C. radula, hispidus and spinosus Klug, and hispidulus and 

 latirostris Brunner. Of these radula may be considered the type. 



Corynorhynchus radula (lOug). 



"1820. Proscopia radula Ivlug, in Nees ab Esenbeck, Hors Phys. Berol. 

 p. 20, tab. Ill, fig. 4. [Rio de Janeiro; Para, Brazil.]" 



Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. November. (H. H. Smith.) One male, 

 two females. 



One of the female specimens is considerably larger than the other 

 and very materially exceeds Brunncr's measurements. No other 

 difference, however, can be detected between it and the other female, 

 which fully agrees wdth the above-mentioned measurements. 



TETANORHYNCHUS Brunner. 



1890. Tetanorhynchus Brunner, Verliandl. K. K. Zool.-Bot. Gesell., Wien, 

 XL, p. 104. 



Included punctatus lOug, suhlavis, propinquus, incertus, longirosiris 



and angustirostris Brunner. Of these punctatus may be considered 



the type. 



Tetanorhynchus bihastatus n. sp. 



Types : d" and 9 ; Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil. March (High- 

 land). (H. H. Smith.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8116.] 



Closely allied to T. humilis Giglio-Tos from Paraguay,^^ ^^^ differing 



>2 Co-types of this species received from Dr. Borelli have been used for com- 

 parison. 




678 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



in the finer sculpture, the longer subgenital plate of the male and the 

 more acute supraanal plate of the female. 



Size medium; form as usual in the genus; surface finely punctate. 

 Head elongate; rostrum in the male but slightly more than half the 

 length of the remainder of the head, in the female subecjual to the 

 remainder of the head, acuminate, apex narrowly rounded, carinse dis- 

 tinct; eyes elongate-ovate, quite prominent in the male; antenna very 

 slightly longer than the rostrum in the male, slightly shorter in the 

 female, basal joint distinctly shorter than the eye in the male, slightly 

 shorter in the female. Pronotum with the limbs inserted mesad, 

 cephahc margin broadly rounded. Mesonotum and metanotum 

 slightly strigate. Abdomen with the strigoe absent in the male, faintly 

 marked in the female; supraanal plate of the male acuminate, apex 

 rounded; subgenital plate of the male narrowly produced, needle-like; 

 supraanal plate of the female acuminate, apex very narrowly rounded; 

 ovipositor valves stout, the margins unarmed ; subgenital plate of the 

 female broadly arcuate. Cephalic and median limbs subequal in size, 

 shorter than the pronotum. Caudal femora elongate, reaching to the 

 middle of the fifth abdominal segment in the male and of the fourth 

 in the female; caudal tibise armed on the margins with fifteen to 

 sixteen spines in the male and twenty in the female. 



General color olive-green, in the male washed along the sides of the 

 pronotum and the postocular region of the head with yelloAvish green. 



Measurements. 



& 9 



Length of body, 63.5 mm. 91 mm. 



Length of head, 10.5 " 15 " 



Length of rostrum, 4 " 7.5 " 



Length of pronotum, 13.5 " 19 " 



Length of cephalic femora, 9.7 " 13 " 



Length of caudal femora 23 " 27.2 " 



Length of caudal tibia?, 24 " 31.5 " 



Length of subgenital plate, 5 " 



Two specimens of each sex have been examined. The paratypic 

 female has lost both caudal tibiae, the paratypic male, however, exliibits 

 a spine armament of twenty spines, which is rather different from that 

 of the type. Otherwise the specimens exhibit no striking variation. 



Tetanorhynchus smithi n. sp. 



Type: d^ ; Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil. March (Highland). 

 (H. H. Smith.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8117.] 



Allied to 7\ humilis and T. hihastatu^, but differing in the more 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 679 



robust build and the heavier cephahc aiid median femora. The form 

 of the subgenital plate closely resembles that of bihastatus. 



Size rather large ; form more robust than usual in the genus ; surface 

 of thorax, head and limbs distinctly punctate, abdomen very obscurely 

 punctate. Head acuminate; rostrum about half as long as the 

 remainder of the head, tapering, apex blunt, carinate distinct but not 

 sharp; eyes elliptical ovate, rather prominent; antennae about twice 

 as long as the rostrum, basal joint but slightly more than half the length 

 of an eye. Pronotum with a slight median supracoxal dilation; 

 cephalic margin roundate, shallowly emarginate mesad; caudal margin 

 sinuato-truncate. Mesonotum and metanotum moderately inflated, 

 strigse distinct and serrato-dentate. Supraanal plate acuminate, 

 apex moderately acute, proximal half with a shallow median emargi- 

 nation; subgenital plate produced, needle-like. Cephalic and median 

 limbs similar, the cephalic pair slightly smaller than the median. 

 Caudal femora elongate, reaching to the middle of the fifth abdominal 

 segment ; caudal tibiae with thirteen spines on the external and twelve 

 to fourteen on the internal margins. 



General color pale apple-green, suffused dorsad, on the ventral surface 

 of the rostrum and on the entire dorsum of the abdomen wdth olive. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 71.5 mm. 



Length of head, 11.5 '' 



Length of rostrum, 4 " 



Length of pronotum, 14 '* 



Length of cephalic femora, 11.5 " 



Length of caudal femora, 25.5 " 



Length of caudal tibiae, 29 " 



Length of subgenital plate, 5.2 '' 



The type is the only specimen^of this species seen. 



HYBUSA Erickson. 



! 1844. Hybusa Erickson, Wiegman's Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, X, Bd. II, 

 p. 298. 



Type. — Proscopia occidentalis Westwood. 

 Hybusa reedi n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Chile. (E. C. Reed.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8118.] 



Differing from H. occidentalis in the slenderer head and pronotum , 

 the rather longer limbs and narrower abdomen. 



Size medium; form depressed in the thoracic region; surface rugu- 

 lose. Head conic, the section caudad of the eyes slightly concave, the 

 margin not distinctly serrate and but slightly rugulose; rostrum l^ut 




6S0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Scpt., 



slightly longer than the eyes, tapering, apex blunt and broad, depressed 

 with very distinct lateral carinae; face concave; eyes elliptical ovate; 

 antennae with the basal joint about one-third the length of the eye. 

 Pronotum with the limbs inserted caudad of the middle; cephalic mar- 

 gin rotundate with a median truncation, caudal margin truncate, 

 lateral margins slightly constricted cephalad of the insertion of the 

 limbs. Mesonotum and metanotum fused, strongly impressed rugulose 

 dorsad, depressed. Abdomen somewhat compressed, carinate, sub- 

 equal, narrower than the meso-metathorax ;^^ supraanal plate sagittate; 

 ovipositor valves heavy, blunt, margins unarmed; subgenital plate 

 very slightly rotundato-truncate. Cephalic and median femora very 

 similar in structure, the cephalic pair slightly the larger. Caudal 

 femora slender, reaching nearly to the distal margin of the sixth 

 abdominal segment; caudal tibiae bearing twenty to twenty-one spines 

 on the external margins, twenty- two on the internal margins. 

 General color gallstone-yellow, the eyes dull greenish. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 57 mm. 



Length of head, 9 



Length of rostrum, 2.2 



Length of pronotum, 8.5 



Length of cephalic femora 8.5 



Length of caudal femora, 22.5 



Length of caudal tibiae, 22 



An immature specimen from Cautin, Chile (C. S. Reed; January, 

 1904; A. N. S. Phila.) I also refer to this species. It is a male, but 

 fully agrees with the type in all essential characters. 



CEPHALOCCEMA Serville. 

 1839. Cephaloccema Serville, Orthoptdres, p. 577. 

 Type. — Proscopia sica Serville. 



CephaloccEma sica (Serville). 



1839. Proscopia sica Serville, Orthopteres, p. 577, PI. 14, fig. 1. [Southern 

 part of Campos Geraes, Brazil.] 



Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. September 1 and 7, 1900. (Adolph 

 Hempel.) [A. N. S. Phila.] Two males. 



These specimens have the subgenital plate more produced and elon- 

 gate than in Serville's figure, but otherwise they fully agree with this 

 species. 



" This condition may be due to the artificial compressing of the abdomen, 

 but it is very evident that the width is by no means as great as in the female of 

 occidentalis figured by Brunner (Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-Bot. Gesell., Wien, XL, 

 taf. V, fig. 10). 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 681 



Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner. 



1890. Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-Bot. Gesell., 

 Wien, XL, p. 116. [Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



Paraguay. [A. X. S. Phila.] One female. 



The measurements of the limbs of this specimen are slightly smaller 



than those given by Brunner. 



Cephaloccema costulata Burmeister. 



18S0. Cephalocoema costulata Burmeister, Abhandl. Naturforsch. Gesell., 

 HaUe, XV, heft I, p. 9, taf. I, figs. 5-7. [Argentina.] 



Sapucay, Paraguay. [Hebard Collection.] One female. 



This specimen is equal to Burmeister's and Brunner's maximum 

 measurements and is considerably larger than two individuals of the 

 same sex from Carcarana, Argentina, in the collection of the Academy. 

 The Sapucay specimen, also, has the rostrum longer than in Burmeis- 

 ter's figure, and in the other specimens examined, but not exceeding 

 the maximum given by Brunner, 



Cephalocoema chapadensis n. sp. 



Types: cJ^ and 9 ; Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. July (6^) and 

 August (?). (H.H.Smith.) [U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 8119.] 



Closely allied to C. costulata but differing in the longer and subequal 

 rostrum, the more marked longitudinal strigse and the heavier antennae. 



Size medium ; surface of the body with distinct longitudinal strigse, 

 weaker on the pronotum than elsewhere. Head elongate, tapering; 

 rostrum of the male about equal to the length of the head, of the female 

 slightly longer than the remainder of the head, tapering in the male 

 with a rather blunt apex, subequal in the female, apex rather blunt 

 and subcruciform when view^ed cephalad; antennse equal to the ros- 

 trum in the male, about two-thirds the length in the female, basal 

 joint slightly less than half the length of the eye; eyes subelliptical ; 

 face very slightly concave. Pronotum elongate, slightly broader 

 caudad than cephalad, limbs inserted very slightly caudad of the 

 micklle; cephalic margin rotund ato-truncate, caudal margin truncate, 

 lateral margins very slightly expanded dorsad of the coxce ; strigse dis- 

 tinct, but not high. Mesonotum and metanotum little broader than 

 the pronotum, strongly strigate. Abdomen with the strigse very dis- 

 tinct; supraanal plate of the male sagittate, apex blunt; subgenital 

 plate of the male compressed, elongate, subequal, the apex obscurely 

 bilobate; supraanal plate narrow, produced, apex bluntly rounded; 

 ovipositor valves strongly compressed, margins unarmed; subgenital 

 plate of the female apically rotund ato-truncate. Cephalic and median 

 limbs subequal in size and form. Caudal femora of the male slightly 

 44 




682 PROCEEDIJSrGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



surpassing the apex of the fourth abdominal segment, of the female 

 just reaching the apex of the same segment, slender; caudal tibiae in 

 the male with sixteen to seventeen spines on the external margins and 

 fourteen to fifteen on the internal, in the female with twelve on the 

 external and nine to ten on the internal margins. 



General color wood-brown, the rostrum infuscate ventrad. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 62 mm. 75.5 mm. 



Length of head, n.5 " 15.5 '' 



Length of rostrum, 5 " 8.5 " 



Length of pronotum, 11.5 " 15.5 '' 



Length of cephalic femora, 7.5 " 10.5 " 



Length of caudal femora, 19 " 23 " 



Length of subgenital plate, 4 " 



A female from Paraguay, in the collection of the Academy, has also 

 been examined. It differs from the type of that sex only in the smaller 

 size and slightly greater number of tibial spines. 



Cephalocoema flavirostris (Blanchard). 



1851. Proscopia flavirostris Blanchard, in Gay, Hist. Fis. Pol. Chile, Zool., 

 VI, p. 61. [Province of Coquimbo, Chili.] 



Zemuco, Chile.^^ January, 1904. (Carlos S. Reed.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] One male, one female. 



As far as can be made out from the poor original description, these 

 specimens probably represent this species. The pronotum and pro- 

 sternum have a lateral series of yellowish tubercles which is the only 

 character approaching "prothorace .... lateribus flavescenti." 



Cephalocoema lineata Brunner. 



1890. Cephaloccema lineata Brunner, Verhandl. K. K. Zool.-Bot. Gesell., 

 Wien, XL, p. 119, taf. V, fig. 11. [Mendoza, La Plata, Argentina.] 



Cordova, Argentine. (F. Schulz.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male, 

 one female. 



The female is slightly smaller than the type measured by Brunner. 

 This species is very close to C. lancea Burmeister. 



ASTROMA Charpentier. 

 1845. Astroma Charpentier, Orthop. Desc. et Depict., tab. IV. 

 Type. — Astroma chloropterum Charpentier. 



Astroma chloropterum Charpentier. 



1845. Astroma chloropterum Charpentier, Orthop. Desc. et Depict., tab. 

 IV. [ChUi.] 



** Possibly an error for Temuco, Cautin, Chile. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



683 



Colchagua, Chile. December, 1903. (Carlos S. Reed.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] Ten males, ten females. 



Lota, Concepcion, Chile. January, 1904. (Carlos S. Reed.) [A. 

 N. S. Phila.] One male. 



Zemuco (Temuco?), Chile. January, 1904. (Carlos S. Reed.) [A. 

 N. S. Phila.] One male, one nymph. 



Cautin, Chile. January, 1904. (Carlos S. Reed.) [A. N. S. 

 Phila.] One male. 



Chile. (E. C. Reed.) [U. S. Nat. Mus.] One male, one female. 



The above series is rather constant in size and general characters. 

 One female from Colchagua is abnormal in the brevity of the rostrum, 

 that process having been injured and reduced to a mere stump. 




684 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct.j 



October 4. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



The Secretary reported that papers under the following titles had 

 l)een received on the dates given, and accepted for publication since 

 the last meeting: 



''Comparative Age of the Different Floristic Elements of Eastern 

 North America," by John W. Harshberger, Ph.D. (May 28). 



"The Fishes of Nantucket," by Dr. Benjamin Sharp and Henry W. 

 Fowler (May 31). 



''The Morphology and ^letamorphosis of the Alimentary Canal of 

 the Mosquito," by M. T. Tliomson (June 6). Transferred to the Ento- 

 mological Section. 



"Notes on Orthoptera from Northern and Central Mexico," by James 

 A. G. Rchn(Junc 11). 



"Notes on Orthoptera from Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado," 

 by James A. G. Rehn (June 29). 



"Variability and Autonomy of Phataria," by Sarah P. Monks (July 

 12). 



"Notes on a Collection of California Mammals," by Witmer Stone 

 (July 13). 



"On a Collection of Birds and Mammals from j\It. Sanhedrim, Cali- 

 fornia," by Witmer Stone and A. S. Bunnell (July 13). 



"On certain Rhachiglossate Gastropoda eliminated from the 

 Aquillidffi," by H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta (July 23). 



"Studies in the Orthopterous Subfamilies Acrydiinse (Tettiginse), 

 EumastacinjE and Proscopinse," by James A. G. Rehn (August 17). 

 ^ "Three Odd Incidents in Ant-Life," by Adele M. Fielde (August 27). 



"The Structure and Development of the Compound Eye of the 

 Honey-Bee," by Everett Franklin Phillips (August 30). 



"New Chilopods," by Ralph Y. Chamberlin (September 2). 



"Description of New Land Snails of the Japanese Empire," by H. A. 

 Pilsbry and Y. Hirase (September 6). 



"The Development and Structure of the Larva of Paragordius," b}- 

 Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr. (September 9). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 685 



"The Reaction of Ants to Material Vibration," by Adele M. Fielde 

 and George H. Parker (September 20). 



The deaths of the following members were announced: Henry 

 Biinton Coxe, William S. Magee and Edward K. Tryon, Jr. 



The deaths of R. A. Philippi, and Edward von Martens, correspond- 

 ents, were also announced. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry made a communication on the stages of growth 

 and decline in the land mollusca. (No abstract.) 



Dr. J. P. Moore spoke of sexual polymorphism in annelids, with 

 special reference to the Polychseta. (No abstract.) 



October 18. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



"The Orthoptera of Thomas County, Georgia, and Leon County, 

 Florida," by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (October 11). 



"Annotated List of the Types of Invertebrate Cretaceous Fossils 

 in the Collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," 

 by Charles W. Johnson (October 14). 



Dr. Benjamin Sharp reported his experience during the summer on 

 a trawler from Hull which fished in the North Sea between England 

 and Helgoland, and on the cutter which brought the catch to London. 

 (No abstract.) 



A new Centrifuge. — Dr. Henry Emerson Wetherill described a 

 compact centrifuge that will do all the work of the ordinary centrifuge 

 with the advantages of being more compact, less complex, and more 

 easily cleaned. 



It does away completely with the heretofore unnecessary gearing 

 required for the revolutions, this being accomplished by a double 

 rotating motion produced by the twisting of rawhides or rope. This 

 to-and-fro motion gives a more level precipitation, and the magnifying 

 bulbous end of the graduated bottle enables a measurement of the 

 smallest amounts of precipitate. The bottles are tightly corked, thus 

 preventing the mixture of the precipitate with the supernatant liquid, 

 and serving as a safeguard in revolving infectious material. 



The instrument will fit in the vest pocket like a clinical thermometer, 

 and when one of the little pocket microscopes now to be had is used 




686 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [[Oct., 



with it the work at the bedside is facihtated. Not only can urine be 

 sedimented, but by reversing the tube small amounts of cream in milk, 

 of a sufficient quantity, can be tested for. The speed is ample, and 

 reduces the time for testing to one minute. 



The following were elected members : 



Michael F. McDonough, Charles D. Hart, M.D., and Mrs. Charles 

 Roberts. 



Frantisek Vidovsky, of Prague, and A. A. W. Hubrecht, of Utrecht, 

 were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1904,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 687 



THE EARLY DEVELOPMENT OF DINOPHILTJS: A STUDY IN CELL-LINEAGE. 



BY JAMES A, NELSON, PH.D., 

 University of Pennsylvania. 



Contents. 



I. Introductory and Historical 687 



II. Material and Methods 689 



III. Nomenclature 691 



IV. History of the Cleavage to the Formation of the Germ Layers 692 



(1) Unsegmented Ovum. 



(2) The Primary Cleavages. 



(3) The Segregation of the Ectohlast. 



(4) The Segregation of the Mesoblast. 



V. Outline of the P'urther Development 702 



VI. History of the First Quartette 705 



(1) The Cross and the Intermediate Girdle Cells. 



(2) The Prototroch. 



VII. Historv of the Second and Third Quartettes 714 



(1) M (X). 



(2) 2a, 2h and 2c and the Third Quartette. 



VIII. History of the Fourth and Fifth Quartettes 721 



(1) The Entomeres. 



(2) The Mesomeres. 



IX. Axial Relations. 724 



X. The Phylogenetic Relationships of Dinophilus in the Light pi its 



Early Development 727 



It is a pleasure to me to acknowledge my debt of gratitude to Prof. 

 E. G. Conklin, of the Zoological Laboratory of the University of 

 Pennsylvania, for his kindly advice and constant encouragement in 

 the preparation of this paper. I wish also to thank Prof. T. H. 

 Montgomery and Dr. J. P. Moore for many valuable suggestions 

 offered dviring the pursuance of the work. To Prof, C, 0. Whitman 

 I am indebted for courtesies extended me at Wood's Hole, Massa- 

 chusetts, In finishing the figures and in preparation of the manu- 

 script for publication, it gives me pleasure to acknowledge my 

 indebtedness to my wife for invaluable assistance. 



I, — Introductory and Historical, 



The phylogenetic relationships of Dinophilus have presented a per- 

 plexing problem to morphologists since the establisliment of the genus 

 by Oscar Schmidt in 1848. The various views as to its systematic 

 position may be conveniently classed under three heads: (1) those 

 referring Dinophilus to the Turbella ia; (2) those referring it to the 




688 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Nemertina, and (3) those ]-cforring it to the Annelida, or to some 

 position intermediate between the annelids and the rotifers. The older 

 writers, with the exception of van Beneden, referred the genus to the 

 Turbellaria, on account of its obvious external resemblances to that 

 group. Among these authors may be mentioned Schmidt (1848) (who, 

 however, later changed his opinion), Max Schultze (1849), Diesing 

 (1874), Mereschkowsky (1879), Korschelt, in his first paper on Dino- 

 philus (1882), and Weldon (1886). 



In 1861 van Beneden described a species from the coast at Ostende, 

 and referred the genus to the nemerteans, principally, it would seem, 

 on account of the character afforded in the possession of a proboscis. 

 Of recent writers who have inchned to this opinion we have only 

 Verrill (1895), who, however, does not enter into a discussion of the 

 relationships of the group, but only provisionally refers it to the 

 nemerteans. 



The first to place Dinophilus among the annelids was Schmarda 

 (1861), who described a species from the coast of South America, and 

 assigned it to a place in the Oligochsete family of the Naidse, next to 

 the primitive genus jElosoma. The claims of Dinophilus to a place 

 among the annelids have, however, been based chiefly on its remark- 

 able resemblance to certain annelid larvse, especially those of the poly- 

 trochal type. The first to call attention to this fact was Metschnikoff 

 (1866), who in his paper on Apsilus wrote concerning the systematic 

 position of Dinophilus: "Dass Dinophilus als eine stationare Anneliden- 

 larva zu betracten ist, und mithin zu der Anneliden ebcnso wie Appen- 

 dicularia zu den Ascidien sich verhalt." He also notices some resem- 

 blances to certain rotifers. As a curious parallel to this view may be 

 cited Oscar Schmidt's (1882) comparison of the position of Dinophilus 

 among the annelids to that of Axolotl among the true salamanders. 



Graff (1882), in his fine monograph on the Turbellaria, removes 

 Dinophilus from the Turbellaria, and considers it as more properly 

 belonging near the Annelida. 



Lang (1884) places Dinophilus in the line which leads through the 

 Archiannelida to the rotifers. Harmer (1889) also regards Dinophilus 

 as nearly related to the Archiannelida; Rcpiachoff (1SS6) considers it 

 a true annelid, as does Korschelt (1893); while of the most recent 

 writers Schimkewitsch (1895) considers Dinophilus as affording char- 

 acters which relate it to both the rotifers and annelids. 



These various views have been based almost entirely on anatomi- 

 cal evidence, since but three papers deal with the embryology, viz.: 

 Korschelt (1882), Repiachoff (1886) and Schmike^vdtsch (1895). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 689 



Korschelt studied the living egg and described the manner in which 

 the eggs were laid, the early stages of the cleavage, an epibolic gastrula- 

 tion, and observed that at hatching the young Dinophilus closely 

 resembles the adult. Repiachoff's paper is more complete as regards 

 the embryology, giving numerous figures of the cleavage and sections 

 of the gastrula. Two important discoveries are to be attributed to 

 this investigator, viz. : That the mesoderm arises from a pair of meso- 

 blast cells situated posterior to the blastopore, and that a considerable 

 portion of the ectoderm of the adult arises from a pair of large cells 

 situated at the posterior end of the embryo and derived from the largest 

 cell of the 4-cell stage. Schimkewitsch follows along the same lines 

 as Repiachoff, and does little more than confirm the latter's results, 

 though the figures given by Schimkewitsch are much in advance of 

 those given by RepiachofT. These authors, Korschelt, Repiachoff 

 and Schimkewitsch, attempted to compare the cleavage of the Dino- 

 philus ovum wdth that of the rotifers and consequently failed to prop- 

 erly interpret it. 



In view of the fact that so little is at present known concerning the 

 early development of this form, the evidence as to its relationships 

 being principally anatomical, it has seemed highly desirable to study 

 the embryolog}^ thoroughly, from the earliest cleavage on. 



The present paper is concerned almost wholly with the cell-lineage. 

 This has been done for two reasons : first, because such a careful study 

 of the cleavage as is involved in a study of the cell-lineage gives a firm 

 and secure basis for work on the later development; and second, 

 because the study of the cell-lineage of mollusks and annelids has 

 brought to light such striking resemblances that there can scarcely 

 be any doubt that they are of phylogenetic significance. 



II. — Material and Methods. 



The species of Dinophilus with which this paper is concerned has 

 not been determined with certainty. Both sexes correspond closely 

 to the description given by Korschelt (1882) for the species found by 

 him in aquaria at Freiburg, and named by him Dinophilus apatris. 

 Repiachoff (1886) has supposed that this species is identical with D. 

 gyrociliatus 0. Schmidt. The individuals of the species found in the 

 aquaria at the Universit}^ of Pennsylvania agree with D. apatris, and 

 differ from D. gyrociliatus in lacking the last or perianal circle of cilia, 

 and also appear to differ from D. gyrociliatus in another important 

 respect, i.e., in having no segmental organs. E. Meyer (1887) figured 

 for the females of D. gyrociliatus five pairs of nephridia of the type found 




690 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



in annelid larvae (protoncphriclia). Careful study of fixed and living 

 material has thus far afforded me no CA'idcnce whatever of nephridia 

 of any sort. 



The ova which were studied in the preparation of this paper were 

 collected from the sea-water aquaria in the vivarium of the University 

 of Pennsylvania during the months of January to May, 1902. 



The ova arc laid in gelatinous capsules as described by Korschelt for 

 D. apatris, each capsule containing three to seven ova of two sizes, the 

 smaller about one-third the diameter of the larger. The smaller ova 

 give rise to the minute and degenerate males, while the larger ova 

 give rise to the female individuals. The number of the large female 

 ova exceeds that of the male. In fifty capsules 214 ova were counted, 

 of which number 79 were male ova and 135 female. These latter have 

 been the object of my investigation, the small size (ca. 30 micra in 

 diameter) and smaller number of the male ova rendering them much 

 less favorable for study. The capsules were found attached to the 

 various sea-weeds in the aquaria, and particularly to the Ulva. A 

 quantity of the sea-weed was taken from the tanks in which the animals 

 were found to be most abundant and squeezed over a large watch 

 crystal. The eggs thus washed out from their capsules, together with 

 much vegetable debris, soon settled to the bottom of the watch crystal, 

 from which they were picked out, under a lens, by means of a fine- 

 pointed pipette and transferred to a small vessel. The vessel found 

 most useful for this purpose was made from the hemispherical bottom 

 of a small test-tube cemented to a slide. The ova collected in this 

 manner proved to be in all stages of development, from the unseg- 

 mented ovum to an embryo ready to escape. 



The ova were in all cases killed Avith Ivleinenberg's stronger picro- 

 sulphuric fluid, and after washing in 70 per cent, alcohol, were stained 

 with Conklin's (1902) picrohsematoxylin. This method of fixing and 

 staining has proved satisfactory with so many forms that it was con- 

 sidered advisable, in view of the scarcity of the material, not to experi- 

 ment further. The ova were then dehydrated, cleared in cedar oil 

 or xylol, and mounted in balsam under covers supported by thin glass 

 feet, thus providing a space in which the eggs may be rolled about by 

 displacing the cover glass. 



It has been noted by several observers that Dijwphilus practically 

 disappears at the approach of warm weather, and this fact was found 

 to be true in this case also. This is interpreted by Korschelt to mean 

 simply that the period of sexual activity has come to an end. How- 

 ever, species of Dinophilus have been found at Wood's Hole, Massachu- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 691 



setts, during the summer months by Verrill (1895) and by Miss Moore 

 (1899), so that it would appear that some few individuals lived over 

 the summer. 



The animals found in the aquaria were probably imported on sea- 

 weed gathered at Wood's Hole, Massachusetts, or at Sea Isle, N. J., 

 and owing to the favorable conditions afforded by the aquaria they 

 multiplied and became abundant During the past three seasons, 

 however, Dinophilus has not become abundant until late in the autumn 

 or in the early winter. The largest number of ova were gathered in 

 January and February, the number diminishing from that time, until 

 by May their nmnber was so small that it did not pay to collect them. 

 Diu-ing the past three years the animals have nearly all disappeared 

 by the middle of June. 



Fig. I. A and B, diagrams of ova with circumscribed loxodromic curves, 

 a-b, egg axis. Copied from Mead (1897). 



III. — Nomenclature. 



The nomenclature adopted in this paper is that modification of 

 Wilson's system (1892) used by Conklin (1897), with the further modi- 

 fication adopted by Child (1900) in prefixing coefficients to the macro- 

 meres, as well as to the micromeres. The macromeres are designated 

 by capitals, the micromeres by small letters. 



WTien the cleavage plane of two cells approximates the direction 

 of the loxodromic curve shown in text fig. I, A, it is dexiotropic ; when 

 it approximates the direction of that shown in text fig. I, B, it is 

 leiotropic. 



The number of the quartette is indicated by a coefficient. Thus la 

 is the member of the first quartette located in the A quadrant. The 




692 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



product of a division which lies toward the animal pole receives the 

 exponent 1, that toward the vegetal pole the exponent 2. Thus la^ 

 lies nearer the animal pole than la-. If the cleavage is meridional 

 the right cell, as seen by an imaginary observer located at the animal 

 pole, receives the larger exponent. Thus la^-^ lies to the right of la^--. 



The macromercs receive a coefficient corresponding to the number 

 of the quartette to which they last contributed. Thus 4A last gave 

 rise to 4a. 



When cells arise whose origin and fate are similar to those of annelids 

 or mollusks which have already received special names, as, for example, 

 the "trochoblasts" or the "intermediate girdle cells," I have made 

 use of these names. I do not, however, wish to imply that the cells 

 arc necessarily homologous with those to which these names were first 

 applied. 



The animal pole is that point at which the polar bodies are given 

 off, the point opposite is the vegetal pole. 



IV. — History of the Cleavage. 

 (1) Unsegmented Ovum. 



J\Iy observations on the unsegmented ovum have unfortunately been 

 confined entirely to fixed and stained material. Since in each lot of 

 material all stages were found, from the unsegmented ovimi to the 

 larva about to hatch, a considerable amount of time and labor would 

 have been involved and many ova lost in selecting for study the few 

 which were still in an unsegmented condition. The ova are approxi- 

 mately spherical and not elongated in one dimension, as Korschelt 

 describes them in D. apatris. J\Ieasurements of the diameters of six 

 unsegmented eggs were respectively 108 micra, 100 micra, 90 micra, 

 96 micra, 92 micra and 100 micra, giving as the average diameter of 

 the egg 97.66 micra. These measurements nearly approach those 

 given by Korschelt for D. apatris, i.e., Ill micra x 92 micra. 



Closely smTOunding the ovum is a delicate wrinkled vitelline mem- 

 brane. The protoplasm in the living ovum is nearly opacjue, this 

 opacity being due to the presence of minute deutoplasmic spheres uni- 

 formly distributed throughout the cytoplasm. These deutoplasmic 

 spheres give to the stained and mounted ova a darkly granular appear- 

 ance, which in many cases makes both mitotic figures and cell outlines 

 difficult to distinguish. Fig. 1^ shows the ovum just after the extrusion 

 of the second polar body. The latter is spherical in shape and about 

 half as large as the first polar body, which is somewhat ovoid. In 

 the first polar body a faint nucleus can be made out, but none in the 



^See Plates XLIII-XLVIII. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 693 



second. Neither of them have been seen to divide. The polar bodies 

 in Dinophilus, as in all animals, mark the animal pole, but are, however, 

 not a reliable means of orienting the later stages, since through some 

 cause they tend to become displaced and are ultimately taken into the 

 cells over which they happen to lie. In fig. 8, for example, the first 

 polar body is already sinking into the cell Ic, while the second is still 

 free. 



In fig. 1, beneath the polar bodies lies the female pronucleus, formed 

 of four nuclear vesicles, each vesicle resembling a small nucleus in 

 appearance, having a distinct bounding membrane and containing 

 small granules of chromatin of varying sizes. Below the vesicles, and 

 contaimng them as in a cup, is a large hemispherical aster. Somewhat 

 below and to the right of the center of the ovum lies the male pro- 

 nucleus with its accompanying aster, which lies on the vegetal pole 

 side of the nucleus. 



The stage next studied is represented in fig. 2, where the two pro- 

 nuclei are seen to have come together. The male pronucleus is prob- 

 ably the large bilobed vesicle which lies on the side of the nucleus 

 toward the vegetal pole; the female pronucleus is probably represented 

 by the eight smaller vesicles on the other side. The ovum is in the 

 early prophase of division, a large and deeply staining aster being on 

 each side of the nucleus, though no spindle fibres can yet be distin- 

 guished. 



(2) Primary Cleavages. 1-4 Cells. 



The spindle for the first cleavage is shown in fig. 3. The cell body 

 has elongated and the spindle is in the anaphase, while the unequal 

 character of this cleavage is clearly indicated by the inequality in the 

 diameter of the two asters as well as by the eccentric position of the 

 spindle. The spindle is inclined at a slight angle to the horizontal 

 plane, the end which is to form the smaller cell being the lower. The 

 explanation of this is not clear; possibly the spindle was oscillating, 

 or perhaps the position of the spindle may have something to do with 

 the beginning of spiral cleavage. Unfortunately this is the only ovum 

 which I have seen in which the spindle is in either metaphase or ana- 

 phase, so that it is not absolutely certain that this oblique position is 

 normal. The plane of this division passes through the animal pole, 

 but lies to one side of the pole opposite. The products of this division 

 (fig. 4) are very unequal, the cell C-D greatly exceeding A-B in size. 



Immediately after division both cells prepare to divide again, but 

 the two halves of the second cleavage are not simultaneous, C-D divid- 




694 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



ing much in advance of A-B, as fig. 5 shows. As seen in the figm-e, the 

 spindle in C-D has reached the late anaphase, the chromosomes lying 

 close to the centrosomes, while a double row of microsomes has ap- 

 peared on the spindle fibres. On the other hand, in A-B the spindle 

 has only just reached the metaphasc. The division of A-B is nearly 

 equal, A being slightly the larger product, while the division of C-D is 

 highly unequal. The spindles for both divisions arc inclined in a 

 leiotropic direction, as is especially well shown by the division of 

 A-B in fig. 6, in which the left pole of the spindle is much higher than 

 the right. 



The four cells formed by the second cleavage all differ in size (figs. 6 

 and 7, text fig. II, A and B); while D is relatively colossal, C, B, and 

 A are more nearly alike. Of these C is the largest, A slightly smaller 

 than C, while B is the smallest of all. The enormous size of D can be 



A B 



Fig. II. A, 4-cell stage from animal pole; B. same from right side. 



appreciated only when the 4-cell stage is viewed from the side, as shown 

 in text fig. II, B. 



The size relation of the four cells A, B, C and D appears to be some- 

 what unusual. In all Annelida and Mollusca investigated which have 

 imequal cleavage the left posterior blastomere D is the largest one of 

 the 4-cell stage, except in the case of Aplysia (Blochmann, 1883; Ca- 

 razzi, 1900) and the Pteropoda thecosoniata (Fol, 1875). A and B are 

 usually equal, while C is more or less intermediate between B. and D. 

 Among the Lamcllibranchia there appear to exist cases parallel to that 

 of Dinophilus. An examination of the figures given for Cyclas (Stauff- 

 acher, 1893), for Unio (Lillic, 1895) and for Dreissensia (Meisenheimer, 

 1901) seems to indicate that in these forms B is the smallest of the four 

 cells, while it is fairly evident that C exceeds A in size, although I find 

 no precise statement of these facts in the text of the papers mentioned 

 above. In all these forms D is relatively enormous. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 695 



In the 4-cell stage of the Dinophilus ovum but one polar furrow 

 is usually present, that at the animal pole, formed by the junction of 

 A and C. This furrow is very long and turns to the right when seen 

 in the second cleavage plane. At the vegetal pole all four cells meet 

 at a point (figs. 6 and 7, text fig. II, A and B). The condition where 

 a polar furrow exists at the animal pole is also found in the Lamelli- 

 branchs mentioned alone ; in these, however, the furrow is formed by 

 the junction of B and D. The phenomenon of a long polar furrow 

 existing at the animal pole in Unio is explained by Lillie (1895) as 

 being due to the fact that "the greater mass of the first blastomeres 

 is ectodermal." This explanation fits the case of Unio very well, since 

 the blastomere D which contains the greatest mass of ectoderm takes 

 part in the formation of the polar furrow, but does not explain the 

 situation in Dinophilus, where D is entirely excluded from the polar 

 furrow. This condition is probably due to two factors: (1) the ex- 

 treme obliquity of the second cleavage spindles; and (2) to the rela- 

 tively small size of B. The inclination of the spindles in A-B and C-D 

 cause A and C to lie above B and D and so meet in a long cross furrow. 

 Were B as large as either A or C it would meet D in a furrow at the 

 vegetal pole, but since its mass is so much less than that of the other 

 cells it just touches D at the vegetal pole. 



The somewhat complex relation of the first and second cleavage 

 planes to the embryonic axis will be discussed in a later section; for 

 the purpose of convenience in description, however, the blastomeres 

 A and B will be considered as anterior, C and D as posterior. 



(3) Segregation of EctoUast. 4-26 cells. 



Immediately after the second cleavage of the ovum the nuclei of 

 the blastomeres resume mitotic activity. In fig. 6 asters are seen in 

 all four cells, while between A and C there are still the remains of 

 spindle fibres to be seen. In D the asters have assumed nearly their 

 definitive position, indicating where the ends of the dexiotropic spindle 

 are to lie. 



At this time there comes to light a curious and striking feature of 

 the cleavage of the Dinophilus egg, mentioned by Lang (1884) as occur- 

 ring in Discocoelis, by Lillie for Unio (1895) and by Jennings for 

 Asplanchna (1896), also by Child (1900) as occurring occasionally in 

 Arenicola at the third cleavage. This peculiarity consists in the fact 

 that the macromeres never divide simultaneously, but always succes- 

 sively and in a regular and invariable order. This order is the same 

 as that of Unio and Arenicola, i.e., D, C, A, B, while that of Asplanchna 




696 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



is D, C, B, A. This order of division is maintained by the macromeres 

 through five successive cleavages, and is more or less perfectlj^ retained 

 by their descendants. This succession is well shown in the ovum 

 represented in fig. 8, where the nuclei of the cells ID, IC, Id and Ic 

 are in the prophase of the next division, while a bundle of spindle 

 fibres still connects the nuclei of lA and la and the micromere 11) is 

 scarcely yet cut off from IB. This sequence in the division of the 

 macromeres is clearly correlated with the difference in the sizes of A 

 B, C and D, since it has already been pointed out that in relative size 

 the macromeres follow one another in the order D, C, A, B, which is 

 also the order of their division. It is evident that this is only a special 

 instance of a widespread class of phenomena, discussed by Kofoid 

 (1894), who points out that in many ova the larger blastomeres, i.e., 

 those containing a greater amount of yolk, or rather more cytoplasm, 

 tend to divide more rapidly than do the smaller ones. This, as Kofoid 

 shows, is in contradiction to Balfour (1880), who formulated a law 

 which supposes yolk to retard the cleavage. Kofoid ingeniously 

 explains the contradiction l^y suggesting that "difference in the rapid- 

 ity of cleavage is apparently correlated with the greater or less absolute 

 amount of protoplasm," and that the amount of protoplasm in turn 

 may be increased through the appropriation of yolk and the ratio of 

 division may be thus indirectly hastened. In Dinophilus, however, 

 while it seems tolerably plain that the difference in the time of division 

 of the macromeres is related to their difference in size, yet the latter 

 fact at first sight appears scarcely adequate to explain the great delay 

 in the divisions of B as compared with those of A, since between these 

 two blastomeres the difference in size is comparatively slight. On 

 the other hand, it must be remembered that since the macromeres 

 have different rates of division the gap between the time of division of 

 the four blastomeres may be considerably widened as the cleavage 

 progresses; in other words, A may start with but a slight lead over 

 B, yet it is, through its more rapid rate of division, enabled to increase 

 that lead in subsequent divisions. This difference in the rates of 

 division of the four quadrants will become obvious by reference to 

 the table of cell-lineage at the back of the i)aper. 



The spindles for the third cleavage are inclined strongly to the right, 

 and the daughter cells, the first quartette of ectomeres, when first 

 formed lie in the furrow between the macromeres. The diameter of 

 these cells, as figs. 8 and 9 show, is about two-thirds of that of the 

 macromeres from which they arose. They are not, however, all of the 

 same size, the two posterior micromeres Id and Ic being equal in size 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 697 



and larger than the anterior pair la and lb which also arc equal. 

 This size relation between the members of the first quartette occurs 

 in Nereis (Wilson, 1892), Amphitrite and Clymenella (Mead, 1897), in 

 Arenicola (Child, 1900), and, as the figures appear to indicate, in Capi- 

 tella (Eisig, 1898), although Eisig states (p. 7) that the micromeres 

 are "unter sich aber annaherend glcich grosscn Zcllen." Among the 

 Mollusca this size relation seems not to appear at all. 



The next cleavage, the fourth, is inaugurated by the second division 

 of ID. In fig. 8 this macromere is seen to be already in the pro- 

 phase of division, and while the other cells in the ovum are preparing 

 for division ID separates by a leiotropic division into the relatively 

 enormous cell 2d and the macromere 2D, which has now been reduced to 

 the size of its fellows (figs. 9 and 10). 2d, the "first somatoblast" of 

 von Wistinghausen (1891), which I shall label X, following Goette and 

 most recent writers on the cell-lineage of annelids, lies in the second 

 cleavage furrow slightly to the left of the mid-line. This cell is a most 

 valuable aid to orientation, owing to its large size and fixed position. 

 In this last division the macromere 2D, the smaller division product, 

 becomes displaced, being crowded downwards so as to be almost directly 

 below lA (figs. 9 and 10). A similar displacement of 2D occurs also 

 in Unto (Lillie, 1895), Dreissensia (Meisenheimer, 1901), Capitella 

 (Eisig, 1898), and probably whenever the cell 2d greatly exceeds in 

 size its parent macromere. 2D subsequently returns to the level of 

 the other macromeres. 



At about the time 2d is produced the first quartette undergoes a 

 rotation in an anti-clockwise direction, so that each micromere comes 

 to lie exactly over the macromere from which it arose (cf. figs. 8 and 

 10). This rotation is undoubtedly brought about by the division of 

 ID to form 2d, the latter cell being pushed backward and upward in a 

 leiotropic direction. In Crepidula (Conklin, 1897), Arenicola (Child, 

 1900) and in other forms a similar rotation is brought about through 

 the formation of the cells of the second quartette. 



The micromeres Id and Ic next divide, the spindles being inclined in 

 a leiotropic direction. Through these divisions there are budded off 

 from Id and Ic, on their peripheral sides, small cells of equal size, 

 Id- and Ic^, kP being formed first (figs. 9 and 10). These cells, though 

 formed by a truly spiral division, come to lie laterally to their parent 

 cells and overhung by them (figs. 10, 11, and 12). A little later la and 

 lb follow in a similar division, the cells la^ and Ib^ being equal in size 

 and somewhat smaller than kP and Ic^, and come to lie in the furrow 

 below the micromeres la^ and 11)^ and to the right of them. These 

 45 




698 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



last-formed cells are minute and were at first difficult to detect, being 

 overhung by their parent cells. The four cells Id^, Ic^, la^ and Ib^ 

 correspond both in origin and subsequent fate to the " trochoblasts " 

 of annelids and to the "turret cells" of mollusks, and will be termed 

 "trochoblasts," since the cleavage resembles that of the annelids 

 rather than that of the mollusks. 



While the trochoblasts are forming, lA and IC are in division (figs. 

 11 and 12), giving rise to two other members of the second quartette. 

 The division of the two macromeres is nearly simultaneous, though C 

 is slightly in advance. The two micromeres 2c and 2a are nearly 

 equal in size to the two anterior cells of the first quartette. 



Coincident with the division of lA and IC is the division of X (2d), 

 the first step in the fourth cleavage (figs. 11, 12 and 13). X buds off 

 a cell of about a third of its own diameter, low down on the right side 

 (x^, figs. 12 and 13). Closely following the formation of x* is the leio- 

 tropic division of IB to form 2b, the last member of the second quar- 

 tette, and the dexiotropic division of 2D to form the first member of 

 the third quartette, 3d (figs. 13 and 16). Thus the macromere of 

 the D quadrant has now obtained a lead of one division over the macro- 

 mere of the B quadrant, and this lead is maintained as far as the for- 

 mation of the fifth quartette. 3b is the smallest member of the second 

 quartette, while 3d will prove to be the largest member of the third. 

 Soon after 3d the other members of the third quartette appear one by 

 one, 3c and 3a equal in size, and last 3b, the smallest of the four, which 

 does not appear until after the formation of the mesoblast cell 4d 

 (figs. 13 to 20). 



Meanwhile divisions arc occurring in the first and second quartettes. 

 The divisions of the former are dexiotropic and concern the four larger 

 cells only. The left products are nearly alike in size ; smaller than the 

 right products in the posterior quadrants, nearly equal to them in the 

 anterior. There is thus formed a flat cap of eight cells (fig, 14), four 

 of which lie radially and four interradially ; the former, la^--, Ib^-^, Ic^-^, 

 Id^-^, correspond in origin and very probably in fate to the "intermedi- 

 ate girdle cells" of Nereis (Wilson, 1892), and they will hereafter be 

 called such. The four remaining cells, following the same terminology, 

 will be called "stem cells." While these last divisions are in progress 

 and the third quartette forming, 2a and 2c each buds off a small cell at 

 its apex (figs. 15 and 16, 2a^ and 2c^). According to the rule of altei- 

 nating cleavage this division should be leiotropic; in fact it is nearly 

 equatorial, though the division of 2b, which occurs later, is strongly 

 dexiotropic. The ovum represented in figs. 14, 15 and 16 is the only 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 699 



one seen which shows this division in progress. However, the subse- 

 quent position of the cells 2a^ and 2c^ shows this division to be very 

 nearly an equatorial one, though the next division of the cells 2a^ and 

 2c2 is strongly leiotropic (figs. 26 and 27). The cells 2a^ and 2c^ lie 

 above their parent cells and in contact with the stem and intermediate 

 girdle cells, at the same level with the trochoblasts. In consideration 

 of their origin and subsequent fate they will be given the name " second- 

 ary trochoblasts," which is given by Mead (1897) to cells of similar 

 origin and fate in Amphitrite and Clymenella. During these last divi- 

 sions X has given rise to a cell on its left side x^, in size similar to x*, 

 and nearly opposite that cell but at a somewhat higher level (figs. 16 

 and 18 and fig. 42). At the same time x^ is also undergoing division, 

 giving off a cell x*-^ at its lower side. This is the so-called anal cell 

 (Mead, 1897). 



(4) Segregation of Mesoblast. 



In the ovum represented in figs. 15, 16, and 17, a large spindle is 

 seen in 3D. In fig. IS the spindle is in the anaphase and the cell body 

 has elongated, clearly indicating by the unequal size of its lobes the 

 very unequal character of the division products. The latter are shown 

 in fig. 24, the division having been completed. The posterior larger 

 product is 4d, the chief mesoderm cell of mollusks and polychsetous 

 annelids. According to the law" of alternating cleavage the spindle 

 for this division should be leiotropic; in fact it is dexiotropic. This 

 reversal in direction of the spindle can be accounted for partly by the 

 crowding downward of 4d during the process of its formation. In the 

 ovum represented in fig. 16 the spindle in 3B is nearly horizontal, while 

 in that represented in fig. 18 it is inclined almost 40° to the horizontal 

 plane. This inclination is clearly brought about by the great size of 

 both 4d and X. Abutting as it does against X, 4d is prevented from 

 attaining the level of 4D, and thus the left end of the spindle comes to 

 be the lower. Why the spindle should not be inclined leiotropically 

 at first is not clear. 



The position of 4d in front of and below X and slightly to the left 

 of the mid-line is almost precisely that of 4d in Nereis (Wilson, 1892), 

 where the conditions concerned in its formation are very similar to 

 those prevailing in Dinophilus. 



4D is now reduced to about half the size of its fellows. This great 

 reduction in size of the macromere 4D is not known among the anne- 

 lids, but among mollusks it is a fairly common condition, e.g., 

 Umbrella (Heymons, 1893), Unio (Lillie, 1895), Ischnochiton (Heath, 

 1899), Dreissensia (Meisenheimer, 1901), Trochus (Robert, 1903). 




700 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



With the formation of 4d and 3b the segregation of the germ layers 

 now consists of 29 cells distributed as follows : 



{ First quartette, 12 cells. 



Ectoblast \ Second quartette 8 " 



[ Third quartette, '. 4 " 



Mesoblast . Fourth quartette (4d), 1 " 



Entoblast . Entomeres. 4 " 



Total, 29 " 



Thus in Dinophilus another example is already added to a long list 

 of forms in which the ectoblast arises from the first three quartettes 

 of micromeres, the mesoblast from the left posterior cell of the fourth 

 quartette, and the entoblast from the remaining cells. To this mode 

 of origin of the germ layers apparently the cephalopods alone form 

 an exception. Among the annelids it is at present known to obtain 



A B 



Fig. Ill, illustrating the reduction of the cleavage cavity. A, optical section of 

 stage of about 54 cells; B, 72 cells. Cleavage cavity stippled. 



only in the groups of the Polychaeta and Echiuridce. The fine paper 

 of Eisig (1898) on Capitella seems to indicate that this manner of 

 derivation of the germ layers does not extend to the Capitellidse, 

 since in Capitella Eisig derives the permanent mesoblast ("coelo- 

 mesoblast") from cells of the third quartette (3c^ and 3d^), while 

 4d gives rise to larval or secondary mesoblast ("paedomesoblast") 

 and ectoderm. However, in view of the probable tendency of the ova 

 of Capitella to abnormal development, it is, I think, permissible to 

 doubt these somewhat surprising results until they are verified in the 

 same or some allied form. These results seem all the more surprising 

 in view of the great resemblance which, in other respects, the cleavage 

 bears to that of the Polychaeta, Among the Echiuridse, Torrey (1902, 

 1903) has found that Thalassema in its cleavage and in its mode of 

 origin of the germ layers agrees closely with the Polychseta. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



701 



As compared with the Polychaeta the origin of the mesoblast cell 4D 

 in Dinophihis occurs very early. In fact the segregation of the three 

 germ layers is completed at almost the same instant, since while 3D is 

 dividing to form 4d, 2B is also dividing to form 3b, If, as Mead (1897) 

 urges, the mesoblast belongs to the ideal 64-ceU stage, then 4d should 

 typically arise only after the 32-cell stage. As a matter of fact, it 



A • B 



Fig. IV, A, B, C, D, E, diagrams of embryos of Dinophilus at different stages, 

 illustrating the migration of the ectoderm during the closure of the blasto- 

 pore. The ova are dra-mi as seen from the right side. The approximate 

 limit of the first quartette is shown by a dotted line. The entoderm uncov- 

 ered by ectoderm is stippled. From camera sketches. 



does so arise in all the Polychaeta whose early development has been 

 investigated, and also in Thalassema (Torrey, 1902, 1903). On the 

 other hand, in Capitella 4d belongs to the 29-cell stage, while among 

 the Mollusc a are several forms in which 4d is segregated before the 

 32-cell stage, e.g., Neritina (Blochmann, 1882), Crepidula (Conklin, 

 1897), Physa (Wierzejski, 1897). At the other end of the series 




702 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



stands Ischnochiton (Heath, 1899), in which the formation of 4cl is 

 delayed until the 72-cell stage. Yet, in spite of these modifications, 

 which are plainly of a coenogenetic nature, it is a remarkable fact, 

 as Heath (1898) has pointed out, that the definitive mesoblast pre- 

 serves its origin from 3D. 



V. — Outline of the Further Development. 



In order to make the histories of the quartettes more intelligible, it 

 is desirable to give a brief account of the later history of Dinophilus, 

 up to the time of hatching. My observations in regard to the main 

 points agree essentially with the account given by Schimkewitsch 

 (1895) for the White Sea form. 



After the segregation of the germ layers, i.e., at the 29-cell stage, a 

 cleavage cavity of considerable size has been formed, and this cleavage 

 cavity persists up to a stage of about 54 cells w^hen it has reached its 

 maximum size (text fig. Ill, A). The ovum is now roughly spherical 

 in outline. Very soon, however, the ectoderm cells which roof the 

 cleavage cavity spread out and flatten dowm, thus greatly reducing it, 

 and finally causing it to be obliterated completely (text fig. IV, 

 A and B). This flattening of the cap of ectoderm produces a pro- 

 nounced change in the contour of the embryo, which is now decidedly 

 elongated at right angles to the egg axis, i.e., in an antero-postcrior 

 direction, and this elongation becomes more pronounced as develop- 

 ment progresses. The ectodermal cap — that is, all of the ectoderm 

 exclusive of the 2d group — now moves over the entoderm in a forward 

 direction. The various stages of this movement are illustrated in 

 text fig. IV, A, B, C and D. In the embryo A, the Ijoundary of the 

 first quartette, marked by a dotted line, lies in a plane nearly parallel 

 to the long axis of the embryo; the apical rosette and the vegetal pole 

 are still nearly opposite one another. In the embryo B the forward 

 movement of the ectodermal cap can plainly be seen to have begun. 

 Embryos C, D and E show^ the further movements leading to the 

 closure of the blastopore, which brings the first quartette into a posi- 

 tion at the anterior end of the embryo, after having rotated through 

 an angle of about 80 degrees. That part of the ectoderm which for- 

 merly marked the am'mal pole, the apical rosette or its derivatives, is 

 now just dorsal to the anterior pole of the embryo, while the boundary 

 of the first quartette lies in a plane almost at right angles to the long 

 axis of the embryo. This forward movement of the ectoderm is 

 brought about by the mitotic activity of the cells of the 2d group 

 dorsal to X — X, viz., x', x^-x'*, x^-x'^ etc., and probably also of cells de- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 703 



rivetl from the intermediate girdle cell of the D quadrant. IMead (1897), 

 Treadwell (1901) and Torrey (1903) have shown that in the annelids 

 Am'phitrite, Podarke and Thalassema respectively cells from this region 

 wander out through the dorsal gap of the prototroch and contribute to 

 the dorsal ectoderm of the trochophore. The thinness of the dorsal 

 ectoderm of the Dinophilus embryo after the closure of the blastopore 

 bears witness to the great mitotic activity in this region (compare figs. 

 54 and 56 and fig. 58). While this forward movement is taking place the 

 ectoderm is increasing in lateral extent, as comparison of the embryos 

 illustrated in text fig. IV readily shows. At the same time on the ven- 

 tral side cells of the ventral plate have covered over the mesomeres, 

 so that now the entoblast is completely enclosed with the exception 

 of a small area at the vegetal pole, the blastopore. This soon closes, 

 the ectodermal cells fusing so smoothly as to leave no visible trace of 

 their union. Meanwhile the entodermal cells have undergone a 

 change in that their lower or vegetal pole ends have become progres- 

 sively smaller as the blastopore closes, while their upper or animal pole 

 ■ends have become correspondingly larger. During this change in 

 shape of the entomeres their nuclei recede from the surface and move 

 inward (figs. 53-56). 



The stomodseum appears as a shallow depression of the ectoderm 

 at the point where the blastopore closed (fig. 58). The ventral 

 plate now begins to grow forward very rapidly, pushing the stomo- 

 dseum before it until the latter reaches a subterminal position, the 

 position of the definitive mouth (fig. 59, st.). The stomodaeal invagina- 

 tion now deepens from a shallow depression to a finger-like inpushing, 

 directed somewhat backward. In fig. 59 the posterior wall of the 

 stomodseum is seen to have thickened ; this mass of cells (pro.) is the 

 rudiment of the proboscis. In fig. 60 this organ (pro.) has assumed 

 essentially its definitive structure and relations. From the stomodseal 

 invagination is formed all of the alimentary canal anterior to the 

 stomach, including the Vormagen or proventriculus. 



While these changes are taking place the entodermal cells have been 

 slowly dividing and have arranged themselves about a centrally situ- 

 ated cleft, the rudiment of the lumen of the future stomach and intes- 

 tine (fig. 59, sto.l.). As the development progresses the entodermal 

 cells assume the arrangement and appearance of an epithelium, while 

 at the same time the lumen of the future stomach increases in extent. 

 In fig. 60 the entoderm cells are now seen to form a cuboid al epithelium, 

 while the lumen of the stomach is a long and narrow cleft, extending 

 obliquely downward and forward. From the posterior end of the 




704 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



stomach projects a short diverticuhim, the rudiment of the intestine 

 (int. 1.). 



The proctodseum appears, at the time that the stomodseum has 

 assumed its final position, as a simple thickening of the ectoderm at the 

 posterior end of the body (fig. 59, pr.). At a later stage a small depres- 

 sion appears in this thickening (fig. 60, pr.). The proctodseum prob- 

 ably forms only the terminal portion of the intestine, or anus. Fusion 

 of the proctodseum and stomodseum with the entodermal portion of 

 the alimentary tract does not take place until very shortly before 

 hatching. 



The rudiment of the brain appears early. Just after the blastopore 

 has closed, the ectoderm at the anterior end of the embryo is thicker 

 than elsewhere, presenting the appearance shown in optical section 

 in fig. 58. The cells of this region multiply rapidly, and the ectoderm 

 here soon becomes many-layered (fig. 59). At a later period (figs. 60 

 and 61) a transverse band of nerve fibres (br.com.) is seen below 

 and in contact with the ectoderm at this point, while the nuclei of the 

 deeper layers have become very numerous. The latter undoubtedly 

 constitute the nuclei of the ganglion cells, while the band of nerve 

 fibres constitutes the commissure connecting the lateral lobes of the 

 brain of the adult. The brain is now essentially similar to that of the 

 adult, which remains throughout life in contact with the ectoderm of 

 the head. 



The further changes before hatching consist principall}^ in the elonga- 

 tion of the body and the formation of somites. The rapid growth of the 

 ventral plate causes the embryo to bend strongly to^^•ard the dorsal 

 side, as is shown in fig. 60, though here the flexure is not nearl}^ so great 

 as it becomes at a still later period. This rapid growth of the ventral 

 ectoderm is apparently not compensated for by a corresponding 

 growth of the dorsal ectoderm until shortly before hatching. The 

 head is separated from the trunk by a constriction at a stage corre- 

 sponding to that illustrated in fig. 59, that is, as soon as the stomodseum 

 has taken up its final position at the anterior end of the embryo. The 

 trunk segments do not appear until the body begins to elongate, when 

 the constrictions which mark them off appear successively from in 

 front backward. In the embryo shown in horizontal section in fig. 

 61, one trunk segment, the first, is clearly shown, while two more are 

 indicated posterior to this one. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 705 



VI. — History of the First Quartette. 

 (1) The Cross and the Intermediate Girdle Cells. 



At the time of the formation of the mesoblast cell 4d, the first quar- 

 tette consists of twelve cells — four stem cells, four intermediate girdle 

 cells and four trochoblasts (fig. 14). According to the ideal scheme 

 the trochoblasts should by this time have divided once, but their rate 

 of division is very greatly retarded, obviously in correlation with the 

 comparatively late period at which they become functional. 



The stem cells are the next to divide. Even before 4d is formed, the 

 posterior stem cells (Id^-^ and Ic^-^) are preparing for a leiotropic 

 cleavage (fig. 14), These divide and la^-^ and Ib^-^ soon follow; the 

 upper (left) products resulting from the division are four small cells 

 of equal size, forming a quatrefoil at the animal pole, the ''rosette" 

 of Nereis (Wilson, 1892) and other annelids (fig. 20). 



While the rosette is forming, the intermediate girdle cells arc also 

 engaged in a leiotropic division which is unequal in all save the D 

 quadrant (fig. 20). In the A, B and C quadrants the right and periph- 

 eral product is a small cell, to which, in consideration of its origin and 

 probable fate, has been given the name "accessory trochoblast," a 

 term applied by Heath (1899) to cells of Ischnochiton of similar origin 

 and fate. 



While the division of the stem cells and intermediate girdle cells is 

 in progress the trochoblasts also divide (figs. 20, 21, 22 and 29). 

 Ic^ and Id^ usually divide at nearly the same time, although in fig. 14 

 Ic^ is the only trochoblast showing a spindle; la^ follows more or less 

 closely on Id- and Ic', while lb- is always delayed. The division is 

 meridional in the posterior trochoblasts ; in the anterior pair the plane 

 of division, although very nearly meridional, is nevertheless inclined 

 sufficiently to indicate a dexiotropic cleavage (fig. 29). 



Returning to the stem cells, the posterior pair of these are found to 

 be again in mitotic activity, their spindles having reached the meta- 

 phasc before the last division of Ib^"^ is fully completed (fig. 20). 

 These spindles are not spiral, but truly radial in position. Their 

 central ends lie at a higher level than their peripheral ends. 



This division marks the beginning of bilateral cleavages in the first 

 quartette, though these do not appear in the intermediate girdle cells. 

 In fig. 20 the symmetrical position of the spindles in Ic*-^ and Id^-* is 

 obscured owing to the clockwise rotation of the first quartette, caused 

 by the formation of x^ in a dexiotropic direction. In fig. 25 may be 

 seen the products of this division: of these the peripheral products 

 are slightly the larger, and are overlapped by the central products. 




706 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



owing to the oblique position of the spindle. Meanwhile the first 

 quartette has rotated in an anti-clockwise direction, being thus restored 

 to its original position. Next la^-^- and Ib^-^-^ divide, the spindles in 

 their cells being also truly radial, with the central ends the higher. 

 The cell pattern produced by these divisions is similar to that first 

 found by Wilson (1892) in Nereis, Polymnia, Spio and Aricia, and 

 called by him "the cross." The characteristic feature of the cross is 

 the radial divisions of the stem cells. This, as has just been described, 

 is also the case in Dinophilus, but the cell pattern is marred by the 

 belated division of Ib^-^-^, which does not occur until the basal cells of 

 the posterior arms of the cross are again in division (fig. 30). The 

 cross is formed also in Amphitrite, Clijmenella and Lepidonotus (Mead, 

 A B 



I'h 



V, A, the "cross" of Nereis, copied from Wilson (1S92); B, diagram of the 

 "cross" of Dinophihis. The four cjuadrants are represented as having 



divided simultaneously. 



1897), Capitella (Eisig, 1898), Arenicola and Sternaspis (Child, 1900), 

 and Podarke (Treadwell, 1901). In Podarke the spindles are slightly 

 dexiotropic, and in Chcetopterus (Mead, 1897) they are so much so 

 that the cross is not formed at all. In Dinophilus the spindles are 

 truly radial, no trace of the spiral tjqoe having been observed. The 

 comparison of the Dinophilus cross and that of the polychatous annelid 

 Nei'eis will be made clear by reference to text fig. V, A. and B. 



The radial spindles forming the cross mark the appearance of bilat- 

 eral cleavage in the first quartette. Not only is the cross in itself a 

 symmetrical structure, but it is bilaterally symmetrical with respect 

 to the median plane of the embryo, and this is, as Wilson pointed out 

 in Nereis (1892), "an adult bilaterality foreshadowed, long before 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 707 



bilateral divisions begin, in the arrangement of the cells." In other 

 words, the adult bilaterality is expressed in the arrangement of the 

 four cells la^-^-, Ib^-*-^ Ic*-*-' and Id*-*-^ brought about through spiral 

 cleavages, and in fact foreshadowed in the 8-cell stage. These facts 

 have all been shown to be true for all the forms in which a cross occurs, 

 and need not be dwelt upon here. 



While the anterior stem cells are dividing to form the anterior arms 

 of the cross, new spindles appear in the intermediate girdle cells la*-^-^ 

 and lc'-2-^ (figs. 25, 26 and 27). These cells then give rise at their 

 peripheral margins to tiny cells with a deeply staining nucleus (figs. 

 30, 31 and 32). The direction of these divisions is somewhat uncer- 

 tain, but judging by the position of the smaller products it is clexio- 

 tropic in la*-^-* and leiotropic in Ic^--*- Later Ib^-'-^ gives rise to a 

 similar cell (figs. 37 and 41). This division is unmistakably dexio- 

 tropie. It is of interest to note that in Amphitrite (]\Iead, 1897) and 

 Are7iicola (Child, 1900) these same cells should also be small and pro- 

 vided with a densely staining nucleus. In Thalassema (Torrcy, 1902, 

 1903) these cells are truly rudimentary, and it seems quite probable 

 that such is the case in Dinophilus also, judging from their minute- 

 ness and staining reactions. 



Closely following the division of Ib^-^- to form the right anterior 

 cross arm, indeed almost simultaneous with this division, is that of 

 the posterior basal cells of the cross. The plane of this division is 

 meridional, as is also the case in the annelid cross, but differs from the 

 latter in that the division is an asymmetrical one, since the left product 

 of the left posterior basal cell is very much smaller than the right 

 product, Avhile the products of the right posterior basal cell are equal 

 (figs. 30 and 37). This curious divergence from the annelid type I 

 am at present unable to explain. Possibly a further study of the 

 cleavage and of the history of the individual cells of the cross might 

 offer a solution of the problem. Closely following the divisions of the 

 posterior basal cells comes the division of the posterior terminal cells. 

 The spindles for this division are meridional, and the upper and central 

 products of this division are minute cells, which lie above their parent 

 cells as shown in figs. 37, 38 and 39. These correspond in origin to the 

 " nephroblasts," which in Nereis (Wilson, 1892) form the head kidney 

 (or possibly slime glands), and which in Amphitrite (Mead, 1897) give 

 rise to the large mucous glands of the umbrella of the trochophore. In 

 Podarke (Tread well, 1901) these cells are also minute and occupy 

 relatively the same position as in Dinophilus. Treadwell describes 

 small cells of the first quartette which sink through the ectoblast and, 




708 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



reaching the cleavage cavity, there degenerate. Torrey (1902, 1903) 

 suggests that among these small cells are those two mentioned above, 

 viz., id^-i-2-i and Ic^-^-^-^-^ In Chjmenella the nephroblasts are also 

 small and form part of the dorsal ectoderm of the head, as they do in 

 Arenicola. What the fate of these cells is in the case of Dinophilus 

 I do not know. 



The significance of the annehd and molliiscan crosses and of bilateral 

 cleavage in general has been most thoroughly discussed by recent 

 writers on cell-lineage, and on this particular point I have nothing to 

 add. Since, however, it is generally agreed that bilateral cleavages 

 are not directly referable to purely mechanical causes, but are the 

 result of unknown factors, which cause the throwing back of the 

 bilaterality of the adult upon the embryo, it is remarkable that this 

 appearance of the adult bilaterality should have occurred in the same 

 cell generation, in the same direction, and resulting in the same 

 cell pattern as in the Polychseta. This resemblance is still further 

 continued in the direction of division of the posterior cross arms. 



The rosette cells at the time of their formation lie in the furrows 

 between the stem cells, but almost immediately afterward they move 

 in a clockwise direction (cf. la^-^-^ and la*-^-^ in fig. 20), so that the cells 

 now lie interradially, instead of radialh^, as in the annelid cross (text 

 fig. V, B). 



At a stage numbering between one hundred and one hundred and 

 fifty cells, the rosette divides dexiotropically and equall3^ Its cells, 

 which possibly later undergo another division, form a cluster of cells 

 much smaller than those surrounding it, and can be thus distinguished 

 nearly to the time of the closure of the blastopore. As far as my 

 observations on both fixed and living material extend, the rosette 

 never bears cilia. In Capitella also an apical tuft of cilia is never 

 present, though the rosette is formed as in other Annelida. 



The further history of the first quartette is comparatively simple. 

 The forward movement of the cells of the first quartette has already 

 been described (see text fig. IV, A-E). The limits of the first quar- 

 tette have been determined by two landmarks, the cells 2a^--^ and 

 2(,2.2.i Q^ ^YiG right and left sides respectively, and that chain of small 

 cells which I have identified as the prototroch. These latter extend 

 over the sides, passing just anterior to the cells 2a--' and 2c---^, and 

 around the ventral side as a continuous row, but on the dorsal side 

 there is the wide gap so often found in the early stages of the trocho- 

 phorc larva, and due to the same cause, viz., the non-participation of 

 the products of 2d in the formation of the prototroch. Owing to this 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 709 



fact I have not been able to trace with certainty the dorsal posterior 

 limits of the first quartette. On the ventral side the boundary of 

 the first quartette is indicated in fig. 55 by the most anterior row of 

 small cells, and curves forward in a semicircle in front of the blastopore. 

 The position and general outline of the first quartette are sufficienth- 

 indicated in text fig. IV, E. It covers like a cap the anterior end of the 

 embryo and corresponds to the umbrella of the trochophore. 



At the time of the appearance of the stomodseum the ectoderm at the 

 anterior end of the embryo is seen (fig. 58) to consist of high columnar 

 ■cells, while the ectoderm cells covering the rest of the embryo — except 

 at the posterior end, where are the still large remnants of the X cells — 

 are cubical or flattened. The centre of this thickened area is not pre- 

 cisely the anterior pole of the larva, but slightly dorsal to that point, at 

 which place the descendants of the rosette were last recognized. This 

 thickening is the rudiment of the brain of the adult. At a later stage 

 the cells of the thickened area have multiplied and become so closely 

 crowded together that their outlines are barely distinguishable. In fig. 

 ■59 the brain rudiment has increased both in thickness and extent, and 

 has at the same time moved somewhat dorsad owing to the rapid 

 growth of the ventral plate. In fig. 58 the thickened area represents, 

 as comparison wdth text fig. IV. E, will show, less than half of the first 

 quartette; in fig. 59 it has increased to nearly twice its former area. 

 Fig. 60 shows the brain in sagittal section at a slightly later stage. On 

 the dorsal side, just behind the brain, is a deep furrow which in the 

 adult separates the head from the trunk. The lateral extent of the 

 brain is shown in fig. 61, a horizontal section of a stage more advanced 

 than that shown in fig. 60. In this embryo the brain already shows 

 signs of its bilobed character. From these figures it can be seen that 

 nearly the whole of the first quartette is involved in the formation of the 

 brain, if we assume that the second preoral ciliated band of the adult 

 arises from the trochoblasts, as is probably the case, since the brain 

 rudiment is limited posteriorly by the constriction which separates 

 the head and trunk; while the second preoral ciliated band of the adult 

 (prototroch) appears on the elevation of the head just anterior to this 

 constriction. 



The cell origin of the cerebral ganglia among the mollusks has been 

 very fully described by several recent investigators (Conklin, 1897; 

 Holmes, 1900; Meisenheimer, 1901; Robert, 1903); among the anne- 

 lids by von Wistinghausen (1891) and Ijy Wilson (1892) for Nereis, 

 by Mead (1897) for Amphitrite, by Eisig (1898) for Capitella. Wilson 

 has shown that A'on Wistinghausen's account was incomplete and 




710 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



erroneous, and believed that the cereliral jjan^lia arise from the cross. 

 I.ater investigators have been unaV)le to either pro\'e or disprove tliis 

 statement. It is at least certain that the brain is formed from the 

 first cjuartette of micromeres, and its first rudiment is found in the 

 neighborhood of the rosette. These facts, however, can be gathered 

 from the works of the older investigatf)rs (Hatschek, Salensky, ct ol). 

 In Dinophilus the rudiment of the cerebral ganglia involves more 

 than the cells of the cross alone. Its development, however, is typi- 

 cally annelidan, since the ectodermal thickening which represents the 

 earliest rudiment of the brain appears beneath the rosette, which in 

 the trochophore bears the apical tuft of cilia. This 7'udiment then is 

 to be regarded as the ontogenetic representative of the '' Scheitelplatte" of 

 the annelid trochophore. 



(2) The PrototroeJi. 



The head of both the larval and adult individuals of Dinophilus 

 gyrociliatus (apatris) is encircled by two narrow transverse l^ands of 

 long cilia, similar to those which are found on the metameres of the 

 trunk, as illustrated in text fig. ^T. Both of these bands are preoral; 

 the first being situated just anterior to the eyes, the second surrounds 

 the head near its juncture with the trvmk, and passes ventrally just 

 anterior to the mouth. This second preoral band corresponds in posi- 

 tion and function to the prototroch of the trochophore. It first appears 

 at a stage nearly corresponding to that figured in fig. 59 as two delicate 

 tufts of cilia on each side of the head. 



The history of the cells composing this second preoral ciliated band, 

 which I have already taken the liberty of calling the prototroch, will 

 be considered under the head of the first quartette. I have done this 

 chiefly because of the important ]ilace given in the literature of cell- 

 lineage to those components of the annelid prototroch and the mollus- 

 can velum derived from the first quartette, the "primary trocho- 

 blasts" (Mead, 1897). 



At the 29-cell stage the primary tr()chol)lasts are already beginning 

 to divide (figs. 14 and 15). The division is equal in all. The posterior 

 pair divide meridionally, while in the anterior pair the spindle is in- 

 clined from the horizontal plane in a dexiotrojiic direction. While 

 the posterior pair begin to divide as early as the stage shown in fig. 14 

 (26 cells), lb" does not complete its division until a stage numbering 

 54 or more cells is reached. Meanwhile the cells of the second quar- 

 tette in the A and C quadrants have each given off a small cell above, by 

 a nearly equatorial cleavage (figs. 14, 15, 16, IS and 19). 2b later also 

 divides, but this cleavage, instead of4)einge(|uatorial. is strongly dexio- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 711 



tropic, as it should be, following the law of alternating cleavage (fig. 29). 

 While this division is in progress, the lateral cells of the second quartette 

 are again in division (figs. 26 and 27). This division is leiotropic; its 

 result is that a cell similar to but smaller than 2a^ and 2c^ is placed to 

 the left of these cells. Lastly, 2b^ divides similarly, the products being 

 shown in fig. 41. For the six cells thus formed from the second quar- 

 tette, 2a^, 2a^-^, etc., I have adopted Mead's name of "secondary trocho- 

 blasts/' though they arc not precisely identical in origin with those 

 to which Mead gave this name. At a stage of about 81 cells the second- 

 ary trochoblasts 2a^ and 2c^ divide leiotropically and equally (figs. 34 

 and 35). No doubt 2b^ also follows suit, though I have not seen this 

 division. 



The origin of the "accessory trochoblasts" la^-^-^, etc., by the dexio- 

 tropic division of the intermediate girdle cells has already been de- 

 scribed. There is now an irregular row, formed of 22 small cells, 

 which encircles the embryo at a level just between the first and second 

 quartettes. These cells are arranged as follows, passing from left to 

 right: ld2-2-kP-i-2a2-»-2ai-2-2ai-i-la- ■^ etc. It is very probable that 

 the accessory and primary trochoblasts soon divide again, since in 

 the embryo from which fig. 50 was drawn Ic^-^ and Ic^-^-^ were both 

 undergoing an equal and meridional division. The row" of cells thus 

 formed is clearly distinguishable up to the closure of the blastopore, 

 and it was by means of this row as well as by the large size of 2a---' and 

 2c^-^-' that I have been able to trace the boundary of the first quartette, 

 as shown in text fig. IV, A. The trochoblasts are very transparent, 

 and become elongated in the direction of the cell row^ 



At the stage shown in fig. 55 the prototroch is nearly transverse to 

 the long axis of the embryo, as is also shown by the dotted line in text 

 fig. IV, E, but in front of the blastopore it bends sharply forward in a 

 semicircle. In these figures the trochoblasts are represented by the 

 most anterior row of that group of small cells lying just anterior to 

 the blastopore. Beyond the stage represented in fig. 55 I have not 

 been able to trace this group, since all the cells of the ectoderm, through 

 rapid mitosis, soon become nearly uniformly small in size. In fig. 44, 

 where the trochoblasts were last identified, they were on the ventral 

 side, but a short distance anterior to the blastopore, and j^assed up on 

 each side in a row nearly transverse to the long axis of the embryo (cf. 

 text fig. IV, E). Since the stomodseum appears at the point where 

 the blastopore closed and is then pushed forward through growth of 

 the ventral ectoderm (ventral plate), it follows that the trochoblasts 

 must still remain as a more or less transverse row passing in front of 

 the stomodseum. At the close of the eml^rvonic life, when the trans- 




712 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



verse ciliated bands characteristic of the embryo are acquired, among 

 these is one which passes around the head just in front of the mouth, 

 and occupying precisely the position that the row of trochoblasts 

 would be expected to assume after the growth changes which have 

 taken place. It must either be supposed that the ciliated ring in 

 question is derived from the trochoblasts or else from other cells 

 occupying a very similar position. Of the two hypotheses the latter 

 appears to me much the more probable, especially in view of the per- 

 sistence of the prototroch in many annelid larvse, where it encircles the 

 head, passing ventrally just anterior to the mouth, its position thus 

 essentially coinciding with that of the second preoral ciliated band of 

 Dinophilus. 



The cell origin of the annelid prototroch has been determined in 

 Nereis (Wilson, 1892), Amphitrite and Clymenella (Mead, 1897), Areni- 

 cola (Child, 1900) and Podarke (Treadwell, 1901). Among the mollusks 

 the precise cell origin of the velum has been determined in but two 

 forms, Ischnochiton (Heath, 1899) and Trochus (Robert, 1903), 

 although in two other forms, Crepidula (Conklin, 1897) and Planorbis 

 (Holmes, 1900), the origin of the velum has been determined with con- 

 siderable, if not absolute, certainty. Below is given, for the sake of 

 convenience in comparison, a table of the components of the proto- 

 troch and velum in the A quadrant of those forms in which it has been 

 most carefully worked out. The components of the prototroch of 

 Dinophilus are added for comparison. 



Nereis 



Amphitrite ] 

 Clymenella ! 



Lepidonotus , ] 



Arenicola J 



Podarke 



Thalassema 



Ischnochiton 



Trochris 



Dinophilus la 



2ai-2+ 

 2a='-i+ 



lai---+ 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



713 



All the forms mentioned have the primary trochoblasts in common; 

 in all, except Nereis, the gaps between the four groups of primary 

 trochoblasts are closed partly or entirely by cells derived from 2a^, 2c^ 

 and 2bS" Ischnochiton, Podarke and Dinophilus agree in that the cells 

 la*-^-^, Ib^-^-^ and Ic^-^- participate in the prototroch. In common 

 with the annelids, there is also a dorsal gap in the prototroch, owing to 

 the fact that none of the cells of the D quadrant, except the primary 

 trochoblasts, take part in its formation. 



Dinophilus differs from all the other forms in (1) the small size of 

 the primary trochoblasts, (2) that at least the posterior pair of the 

 primary trochoblasts probably divide twice meridionally, and (3) in 

 that 2a^-\ 2b^-^ and 2c^-^ also take part in closing the gaps between the 

 groups of primary trochoblasts in the quadrants A, B and C. These 

 differences, however, are of slight importance compared with the great 

 and striking similarity to the annelids manifested in the origin of the 

 cells which almost certainly form the second preoral ciliated band of 

 the adult Dinophilus. In the light of this similarity the conclusion 

 is almost unavoidable that the second preoral ciliated band of Dino- 

 philus is truly the homologue of the annelid prototroch. 



The peculiarities in the formation of the Dinophilus prototroch 

 become readily comprehensible if the character of the end result, 

 i.e., the second ciliated band, be considered, and also the time at 

 which this organ comes into functional 

 activity. The cleavages involved in the 

 formation of the prototroch are thus clearly 

 seen to be of prospective significance, or 

 inorphogenetic. 



The ciliated bands of the larval or adult 

 Dinophilus are, as compared with the pro- 

 totroch or velum of such forms as Amphi- 

 trite, Arenicola, Podarke, Ischnochiton or 

 Trochus, relatively narrow tracts (text fig. 

 VI), consisting of but a few rows of long 

 cilia, as shown in the figures of Korschelt 

 (1882) or Meyer (1887). Moreover, these 

 tracts probably do not become functional 

 until late in embryonic life. Conklin 

 (1897) has shown that the size of the pro- 



toblast of an organ is related not only to the size of that organ, but 

 also to the time at which it becomes functional. In the light of this 

 fact the small size of all the trochoblasts is easily explained. 

 4ti 



Fig. VI, head and first two 

 trunk somites of Dinophilus 

 larva, soon after hatching. 

 Drawn from a living indi- 

 vidual 




714 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The two meridional cleavages of the primary trochoblasts and the 

 participation of 2a?\ 2b2-i and 2c--^ in the prototroch tend toward the 

 same end, i.e., the production of a narrow band of small cells. 2a, 2b 

 and 2c, instead of each giving off one large cell to the prototroch 

 which subdivides into four cells, covering a broad area, each lays 

 down side by side two small cells, which may then divide meridionally 

 (or nearly so) without violation of the law of alternating cleavages, and 

 thus increase the length of the prototroch, but not its breadth. 



VII. — History of the Second and Third Quartettes. 



(1) 2d ( = X). 



The origin of 2d ( = X) has already been described. The size of this 

 cell is enormous as compared with that of the other cells of the embryo. 

 This relatively enormous size recalls the conditions found among the 

 lamellibranchs, Cijclas (Stauffacher, 1893), Unto (Lillie, 1895) and 

 Dreissensia (Meisenheimer, 1901), and among annelids in Arenicola 

 (Child, 1900), and also in Clepsine (Whitman, 1878). The first two 

 divisions of this cell have already been described ; the products of these 

 divisions and the first product of the third division, x^ are shown in fig. 

 42. In this figure it is seen that x^ and x^ are not precisely symmetrical 

 with respect to X, either in size or position, since x^ is somewhat larger 

 than x^ and placed at a higher level on X. x^-^ lies precisely in the 

 ventral mid-line, x^ lies dorsally to the left, as viewed from behind, 

 and has been formed by a dexiotropic division of X. The approaching 

 division of x*-^ and x^-^ as shown in the figure is of interest, since x^-* 

 is the first cell in the embryo to violate the law of alternating cleavages, 

 inasmuch as the spindle for this division has the same direction as 

 that which formed x^-^. This reversal of the spindle in x^-^ was first 

 pointed out l)y Mead (1897) for Ampkitrite, and was also found by 

 Child (1900) in Arenicola. The products of this division and the cor- 

 responding one of x2 are shown in fig. 43. In this figure are also shown 

 the spindles for the fourth cleavage of the X group. Two points are 

 to be noted in this cleavage : (1) the division of x^ has evidently pushed 

 x^ toward the left (right in the figure), bringing it almost into the mid- 

 line ; and (2) X is dividing into bilaterally placed halves. This bilateral 

 division of X is a striking and constant feature of the unequal type of 

 cleavage among the polychsetous annelids. A similar division occurs 

 in the lamellibranchs, but appears at the fifth cleavage, instead of at 

 the fourth. All the products of the fourth cleavage of X are shown 

 in fig. 44. x^-^^ has budded off a small cell below; x^-^ has divided into 

 neariy equal parts by a meridional cleavage; while x^ has split into 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCIOS OF PHILADELPHIA. 715 



unequal parts, the left product being the greater, and occupying a 

 median position in the cleft between X and X. The cell x----^ is now 

 nearly equal to x.^'^-\ and their next two divisions (figs. 47 and 49) 

 are bilaterally symmetrical. The same may be said of the small cells 

 x^-^-^ and x^-^ (figs. 41 to 48). While I have not followed the history 

 of these latter cells further, it is extremely probable that their divisions 

 are also bilaterally symmetrical. There is here then an instance of a 

 symmetrical arrangement of cells derived by asymmetrical divisions, 

 examples of which are found in the annelid and molluscan crosses, and 

 in the X group of Ani'phitrite (Mead, 1897) and Arenicola (Child, 1900), 

 and probably also in many other forms. While x^-^-^-^ and x---^ are 

 almost equal, x^-^-^ is really somewhat the smaller of the two; and in 

 this connection it is of interest to remember that on this side, the left, 

 next to x^--\ lies the largest member of the third quartette, viz., 3d. 

 Returning to figs. 44 and 45, the cells x^-^-^ and x--^ are seen to have each 

 given off a minute cell toward the vegetal pole. These cells are also 

 shown in figs. 38 and 39. 



The products of the bilateral division of X, called by Wilson (1892) 

 the "posterior proteleblasts," and by Child (1900) the "posterior stem 

 cells," undergo a series of bilateral divisions. The first is shown in 

 figs. 45-47, X* and x^. These cells have pushed forward x'-^-'-^ and 

 -j.2.i.i_ 'Y]^Q qqY[s formed by the next division of the posterior stem 

 cells come to lie together near the median plane, and are also budded 

 oflf toward the animal pole. Meanwhile x^-^ has been divided into equal 

 parts by a meridional plane, and these three cells assume a symmetrical 

 arrangement (fig. 48). I regret that I have not followed the division 

 of the members of the X group beyond this point. Figs. 53 and 55 

 show what is probably the next division of the posterior stem cells, 

 by means of which two large cells, x*'-x'^, are separated off ventrally 

 and laterally. After the closure of the blastopore the posterior stem 

 cells each undergo a further subdivision into two cells by a meridional 

 cleavage. The four cells thus formed resemble in appearance the 

 "posterior tcloblasts" of Nereis (Wilson, 1892). 



The lineage of those cells which lie on the vegetal pole side of the 

 posterior stem cells was followed as far as is indicated in the figures, but 

 a consideration of their cleavages is of little value, inasmuch as there 

 is no sign of a paratroch at the time when the blastopore closes, and 

 the cells on the ventral side of the embryo have by this time become 

 so small and thin as to be very difficult to distinguish satisfactorily. 



There are two points in connection with the cleavage of X which 

 require special mention. The first of these concerns the first four 




716 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



cleavages of X. These cleavages are essentially the same as those of X 

 in Amphitrite and Clymenella (Mead, 1897) and Arenicola (Child, 1900). 

 This similarity extends not only to the direction of the cleavages, 

 but also to their products, which bear to one another a very similar 

 size relation. This striking resemblance cannot be ascribed to the 

 effect of alternating cleavages, since at the third cleavage this law is 

 violated in x*\ at the fourth in X. The divisions of X in Dinophilus 

 and Nereis (Wilson, 1892) differ no more than do the corresponding 

 divisions in Nereis and other annelids {Amphitrite, etc.). These differ- 

 ences are, that in Nereis x^ is formed exactly in the dorsal mid-line, 

 and that the division of x^ is delayed, and is nearly equal when it occurs. 

 In all the Polychata whose cytogeny is known (except Podarke) bilat- 

 erality appears in X at the fourth cleavage. It may then be said of 

 Dinophilus that hilaterality appears in the cell X in the same cell genera- 

 tion as in all polychcetous annelids investigated having the unequal type 

 of cleavage, and appears in x^ at the same cleavage as in at least three 

 polychcetous annelids. 



The second point concerns the arrangement of the cells of the X 

 group. In Nereis the main body of the descendants of X are so dis- 

 tributed that they come to lie on the vegetal pole side of the stem cells, 

 the latter remaining near the prototroch. In the other Polychaeta, up 

 to the time of the closure of the blastopore, the descendants of X are 

 uniformly distributed about the posterior stem cells, so that up to a 

 late stage the latter occupy a central position with regard to their 

 products. In Dinophilus, on the other hand, the greater part of the 

 descendants of X, up to the time w^hen the blastopore is closed, are 

 distributed dorsal and lateral to the posterior stem cells. This pecu- 

 liarity is related to the peculiar shifting of areas, which has already 

 been briefly described in the chapter on the later development. This 

 distribution is not due entirely to a difference in the direction of the 

 division of X — though in Nereis two cells, x* and x^ are budded off 

 toward the vegetal pole — but to a shifting of the cells among them- 

 selves. For example, in Amphitrite the cells x^ and x- shift to the 

 vegetal pole side of X, while in Dinophilus the same cells always retain 

 a lateral position. 



The further history of this group, as far as I have been able to trace it, 

 is as follows. At a time near the closure of the blastopore, as shown in 

 fig. 55 and text fig. IV, E, the first quartette has been shifted forward 

 through nearly 90 degrees, being pushed forward through the forma- 

 tion of x^-x'*, x^-x'^, etc., until the descendants of these cells cover the 

 dorsal surface of the embryo up to the limits of the first quartette and 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 717 



also cover a large portion of the lateral surface. Behind the blastopore 

 the descendants of X form a small group of cells, which in fig. 53 have 

 not yet covered in the primary mesoblasts. Mitotic activity in this 

 region has been very slight, as may be gathered from examination of 

 the optical section shown in fig. 54. The effect of active mitosis in 

 the posterior dorsal region is perceived in the thinness of the ectoderm 

 in this region. The X cells posterior to the blastopore appear to ad- 

 vance and fuse with the other ectoderm cells surrounding the blasto- 

 pore. Whether they actually form part of the blastopore I cannot at 

 present say, but judging from their position in fig. 55 it seems probable 

 that they do. The stomodaeum is formed, as has already been stated, 

 at precisely the point where the blastopore closed. It then moves 

 rapidly forward to occupy the position shown in fig. 59. This move- 

 ment is caused by the growth of the cells posterior to the blastopore, 

 which up to this time have been slow in dividing, as well as by new 

 additions from the posterior stem cells. This ventral plate of cells 

 derived from X corresponds in origin and position to that group known 

 among the annelids as the "ventral plate." Examination of the ven- 

 tral side of an embryo at this stage shows numerous mitotic figures, 

 and the rapid growth of this region is testified to by the thinning of 

 the ventral ectoderm and by the dorsal flexure shown in figs. 59 and 60. 

 From this time on, it is evident that the further growth of trunk 

 ectoderm is due entirely to growth of the cells of the X group, for, since 

 the appearance of the segments from in front backward indicates ter- 

 minal growth, it is evident that the descendants of X can alone be 

 concerned. 2d or X, then, contributes at least the larger part of the 

 trunk ectoderm, as is the case in all the polychaetous annelids whose 

 cell lineage has been studied. A larva of four segments is shown in 

 horizontal section in fig. 61. By comparison of this figure, which is 

 drawn to the same scale as the other figures, an adequate idea can be 

 obtained of the relatively enormous extent of the trunk ectoderm. 

 When it is recollected that this latter is formed principally, if not exclu- 

 sively, from 2d, without any addition of food material from the exterior, 

 the colossal size of 2d is very readily comprehended. A very similar 

 case is found in the development of Arenicola. In this form, as 

 already remarked, the first somatoblast is also unusually large, and 

 furnishes material for the first three segments of the adult worm. In 

 Dinophilus direct development has wholly supplanted the larval type, 

 since the material stored up in 2d forms six body segments, the 

 total number found in the adult. 




718 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



(2) 2a, 26 and 2c and the Third Quartette. 



The divisions of the cells 2a, 2b and 2c up to an advanced stage have 

 been described in dealing with the history of the prototroch. There is 

 left but one division to record, which I have observed only in 2a^-^ and 

 2c^.-^. This division is shown in figs. 34 and 35. The plane of the 

 division is nearly equatorial, but inclined slightly in a leiotropic 

 direction in the C quadrant, in a dexiotropic direction in the A quad- 

 rant. Of the two products the lower is somewhat the smaller. I have 

 never witnessed a corresponding division in 2b- -^j but it very probabl}' 

 occurs. The position and small size of this cell make it difficult to 

 study in the later stages. The two products of 2a^- and 2c^-^ respec- 

 tively are quite conspicuous up to an advanced stage, although they 

 probably divide into smaller cells just before the blastopore closes. 



The origin of the third quartette has been dealt with in the descrip- 

 tion of the cleavages. 3d is the largest cell in this quartette, 3b the 

 smallest, while 3a and 3c are intermediate in size. At the 40-cell stage 

 3d divides equally and leiotropically. The products of this division 

 are shown in fig. 22. A little later 3c divides, but in quite a different 

 manner, budding off a small cell toward the animal pole. The plane 

 of the division is equatorial (fig. 26). Next 3a also buds off a cell 

 toward the animal pole, the spindle being nearly vertical, though the 

 position of the products indicates a leiotropic division. 3b divides 

 some time after 3a, and here the spindle is decidedly leiotropic (fig. 34). 

 It is interesting to note that both 3b and 2b, in their respective quar- 

 tettes, are the most conservative in retaining the primitive direction 

 of their divisions. Wliile 3a is in division, spindles are seen in 3d^ and 

 3d^ (fig. 27). These cells bud off tiny cells toward the animal pole (fig. 

 32) . Of these latter that derived from 3d^ is the smaller. The spindles 

 for this division are nearly vertical, but sufficiently inclined to make the 

 division leiotropic, in direct violation to the law of alternating cleav- 

 ages. Even before 3b has completed its first division 3c has budded 

 off another cell toward the animal pole, the spindle being inclined 

 dexiotropically, as it should be according to the law of alternating 

 cleavages (fig. 34). With this division, or rather the one which follows 

 it, i.e., that of 3b, I have ceased to follow the cell-lineage of the entire 

 egg. 



In fig. 53 the position of the cells 2a2-2i, 2a- -2-, 2c^--\ and 2c2-2-2 is 

 clearly seen. Each pair of cells form a portion of the lateral margin 

 of the blastopore; 2a^-^-^ and 2c^-^-^, which formerly were above, that 

 is, to the animal pole side of 2a--- and 2c---, now lie anterior to them. 

 They still, however, maintain their relative position in the ectoderm, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 719 



and their changed relation to the entoderm and the X group is the 

 result of the shifting of the ectoderm already described. A clear idea 

 of the change of position of the cells in question may be obtained from 

 a glance at text fig. IV, A-D. The corresponding cells in the B quad- 

 rant have not been seen. Doubtless 2b^-^ divides, as do 2a^-^ and 2c^-^, 

 though at a much later period, but the products of such a division are 

 not to be recognized in fig. 53. In the embryo represented in the 

 figure the trochoblasts can plainly be discerned dorsal to 2a^-^-^ and 

 2c^--*; on the ventral side of the embryo they form an irregular cell 

 row. Below this there is a group of small cells which presents to the 

 eye no definite arrangement. These represent the descendants of 

 2b^--; 3a and 3b. Posterior to the blastopore are those cells which in 

 annelids form the ventral plate. These cells barely cover the posterior 

 face of the primary mesoblasts. Just posterior to 2a^-^-^ and 2c^-^-^ are 

 one or two small cells on each side whose lineage has not been deter- 

 mined, but which are probably descendants of 3d and 3c. Turning to 

 fig. 55, the relations of the cells surrounding the blastopore are much 

 less clear. On each side of the anterior portion of the blastopore are 

 two cells slightly larger than those surrounding them. These are 

 probably the descendants of 2^^-''-^, 2a2-2-2, 2c2-2-i and 2c2-2-2. The 

 blastopore has meanwhile narrowed to an irregular cleft, the cells 

 anterior to it forming a seam, while the cells of the ventral plate have 

 only advanced sufficiently to cover in one of the mesoblasts and part 

 of the other. All of the cells which constitute the rim of the blastopore 

 are small and extremely thin and transparent, making their outlines 

 very difficult to discern, and the exact lineage of any of these impossible 

 to determine. From a comparison of figs. 53 and 55 it is seen that the 

 cells of the ectoderm have crowded toward the vegetal pole from all 

 directions, but especially from the sides. It is also evident that the 

 anterior portion of the margin of the blastopore, between 2a^-^-^ and 

 2c^-^-\ is composed of the descendants of 2b^-^, 3b and 3c; that the 

 lateral margin is at least partly composed of the descendants of 2a and 

 2c, unless the small cells which form the blastopore rim in fig. 55 have 

 all slipped in around 2a--^-^, 2a---^, 2c^-^-^ and 2c2-^ -^ It seems probable 

 that this is not the case, but that the small cells comprising the lateral 

 margin of the blastopore are derived from the second quartette. It is, 

 however, fairly certain that some small cells have pushed in between 

 the descendants of 2a and 2c and the cells of the X group. These must 

 be the descendants of 3c on one side and 3d on the other. 



In Nereis, Wilson (1892) described these cells 2a^, 2c? and 2b^ as 

 "stomatoblasts," since they converge to form an arc of cells as the 




720 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



blastopore closes, and arc concerned in the formation of the stomo- 

 dseum. Mead (1897) states that in Amphitrite 22?, 2\? and 2c^ come 

 to occupy positions similar to the "stomatoblasts" of Nereis, but is 

 in doubt as to their precise fate. In Capitella, Eisig (1898) finds that 

 the margin of the blastopore is composed entirely of the products of the 

 second quartette ("oesophagoblasts"). In Podarke (Treadwell, 1901) 

 at least one cell from the second quartette forms a portion of the stomo- 

 daeal wall, as do also products of 3a, 3b and 3c. In Arenicola (Child, 

 1900) eight products from the third quartette function as stomato- 

 blasts and form an arc of cells similar to that formed by the stomato- 

 blasts of Nereis. 



Various conditions are found among the ]\Iollusca. In Ischnochiton 

 (Heath, 1899) products of both the second and the third quartettes 

 take part in the formation of the blastopore lips; this appears to be 

 also the case in Planorhis (Holmes, 1901), while in Trochus (Robert, 

 1903) the lips are formed at first by cells derived from both the second 

 and third ciuartettes, but later the products of the second quartette 

 are excluded from the rim of the blastopore. 



In conclusion, it may be said that in Dinophilus no one set of cells 

 3an be denominated stomatoblasts, but that products from both the 

 second and third quartettes take part in the formation of the blasto- 

 pore rim. The products of 2b^-^, 3a and 3b, since they lie immediately 

 in front of the blastopore, probably contribute to the formation of the 

 stomodaeum. The fate of the cells 2a--^-^, 2a--^-^, 2c^-^-^ and 2c^-^- is 

 problematical. It is possible that they, too, contribute to the forma- 

 tion of the stomodseal wall. On the other hand, it seems pretty certain 

 that but a small part of 3c and 3d contribute to the formation of the 

 stomodaeum. Their position, just anterior to the cells of the X group, 

 which is not materially altered during the shifting of the ectoderm, 

 together with their large size, makes it possible that they contribute 

 largely to the lateral ectoderm of the head. 



Mesoblast of ectodermal origin (larval mesoblast, Lillie ; psedomcso- 

 blast, Eisig) has been described for a number of Mollusca, and the 

 annelids Podarke (Treadwell, 1901), Capitella (Eisig, 1898), Aricia 

 (Wilson, 1898) and Thalassema (Torrey, 1903). Schimkewitsch (1895) 

 describes cells from the ectoderm in the anterior part of the Dinophilus 

 embryo as migrating into the body cavity and there contributing to 

 the mesenchyme. Certain cells, of whose exact lineage I am ignorant, 

 belonging to the first quartette, do invaginate (figs. 57 and 58), and it 

 is quite possible that one or more of them may give rise to the mesen- 

 chyme of the head and the mouth segment region; but it is my belief 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 721 



that ectomesoblast, if such exists, is very small in amount, and that 

 the greater part, if not all, of the mesenchyme of the adult as well as 

 the ovaries are formed from 4d. 



VIII. — History of the Fourth and Fifth Quartettes. 

 (1) The Entomeres. 



The entoderm, at the time 4d is formed (fig. 17), consists of 2A, 2B. 

 IC and 3D. The origin of the third quartette and the primary meso- 

 blast cell 4d have already been described. The other three members 

 of the fourth quartette arise by an equal and leiotropic cleavage. 

 Figs. 23 and 24 show the origin of 4c, fig. 29 that of 4a, while figs. 33 

 and 41 show 4b already formed. At the 72-cell stage 4D has divided 

 dexiotropically into 5D and 5d (fig. 33), the latter product being the 

 smaller. The inequality of this division compensates, so to speak, for 

 the inequality of the division preceding, since at the completion of 

 the seventh cleavage the original macromeres 5A, 5B, 5C and 5D are 

 alike in size. After the division of 4D, 4C, 4A and 4B divide equally 

 and dexiotropically to form the fifth quartette (figs. 51 and 52). The 

 original macromeres now form a cross, the arms of which lie radially. 

 Since up to the last division the macromeres lay interradially, it is 

 evident that a rotation of the macromeres through an arc of 45 degrees 

 has been brought about. This rotation has taken place in an anti- 

 clockwise direction, viewing the ovum from the animal pole, as can be 

 seen by a comparison of figs. 50 and 52. This movement is due to the 

 reduction in size of the macromeres and their superficial position at 

 the seventh cleavage. During this cleavage the members of the fifth 

 quartette are, on the other hand, held in place by their greater surface 

 contact with the surrounding cells of the egg, so that the macromeres 

 5A, etc., are rotated, as were the members of the first quartette at the 

 time of their origin, A similar rotation apparently occurs also in 

 Amphitrite, Clymenella (Mead, 1897) and Arenicola (Child, 1900). 



After the division of the fourth quartette the entomeres cease divid- 

 ing and enter a resting stage which continues until after the closure of 

 the blastopore. They now form a thick, roughly ovoid mass of cells, 

 fourteen in number. At the centre of this mass on the ventral side 

 (fig. 52) lie the four macromeres, 5D posterior, 5B anterior, while 5C 

 and 5A lie laterally. Alternating with the macromeres are the four 

 members of the fifth quartette, while at the outer ends of the cross 

 formed by the macromeres lie the three pairs of entomeres belonging 

 to the fourth quartette. This relation is very similar to that described 




'•>■) 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



by Wilson (1892) for Aricia. In both cases this arrangement is prob- 

 ably brought about by the mechanical processes involved in spiral 

 cleavage. Each cell approximates in shape a four-sided prism, the 

 nuclei lying in the lower ends of the cells, near their ventral surface. 

 As the blastopore narrows, however, these nuclei begin to move 

 inward (figs. 54 and 56). This movement is associated with a change 

 in shape of the entomeres, which in turn is part of the process of gas- 

 trulation. As the blastopore lips draw together (figs. 53 and 55) the 

 lower or vegetal pole ends of the entomeres grow smaller, while the 

 upper or animal pole ends become larger (figs. 54 and 56). These cells 

 thus change from a prismatic to a pyramidal shape. Viewed in a sagit- 

 tal optical section their outlines radiate fanwise from the blastopore 

 (fig. 56). This condition is figured by Repiachoff (1886) and also by 

 Schimkewitsch (1895). This peculiar phenomenon may be a remi- 

 niscence of a time when the type of gastrulation was embolic and not 

 epibolic, and the latter condition may have been brought about by 

 acquisition of food yolk during the phylogeny. Such acquisition of 

 yolk is a secondary character commonly associated with a change 

 from larval to direct development, and it is perfectly possible that a 

 change from emboly to epiboly may have been brought about in this 

 manner. The nuclei have meanwhile undergone changes in structure 

 as well as in position. The chromatin, which before was distributed 

 in the nuclear vesicles in the form of small granules, is now concentrated 

 in each vesicle in one deep staining chromatin nucleolus (fig. 56). This 

 condition is not an uncommon one in resting cells, and is also seen in 

 the entomeres of Crepidula (Conklin, 1897, figs. 52, 53 and 54). 



The further history of the entoderm I have not been able to follow 

 in detail. At a period when the stomodseum has assumed the position 

 of the definitive mouth, the entoderm cells are seen to have multiplied 

 somewhat and to have assumed an arrangement quite different from 

 that found in earlier stages. In fig. 57, which is a horizontal, optical 

 section of a stage when the stomodseum is just making its appearance, 

 the entoderm cells have still the radial arrangement which they as- 

 sumed at the time of the closure of the blastopore. In fig. 59, a sagittal 

 section of a much later stage, the arrangement is totally different; 

 the entoderm cells have multiplied and are now arranged in a more 

 or less definite layer about a small central lumen. 



(2) The Mcsomeres. 



At the 29-cell stage 4d is but just formed and lies on the lower side 

 of the cleaving ovum, below and in front of X and to the left of the 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 723 



mid-line. Very soon after its formation 4d divides again. This divi- 

 sion parts it, by a bilateral cleavage, into two equal cells, the primary 

 mcsomcres M and M. This division is illustrated in figs. 28 and 44. 

 The primary mesomeres remain undivided up to the 72-ceIl stage, when 

 they undergo a division of great interest. This division is shown in 

 figs. 33 and 36. By it two small cells are budded ofT anteriorly toward 

 the vegetal pole, and close to the line of juncture of the two mesomeres. 

 This division is, however, not bilaterally symmetrical, hut is, on the 

 other liand, 'plainly dexiotropic, and follows the law of alternating cleavages. 

 The product of the left mesomere thus lies in the furrow formed by 

 the juncture of the two mesomeres and the entomeres 5D and 5d. 

 The product of the right mesomeres, on the other hand, lies between 

 its parent cell and 5D. The next division of the mesomeres (fig. 50) 

 is also not symmetrical. By this division the left mesomere buds off 

 a small cell on its left anterior surface, that is, leiotropically ; on the 

 other hand, the right mesomere violates the law of spiral cleavage by 

 dividing in the same direction as before and placing a small cell to 

 the left of its first product (fig. 50). The next division marks the 

 beginning of trvie teloblastic cleavages. Each mesomere in this divi- 

 sion buds off dorsally and laterally a small cell. Just how many of 

 these divisions occur before the closure of the blastopore I cannot say, 

 but probably not more than two. After the closure of the blastopore 

 the mesomeres begin to shift apart, moving laterally, forward and 

 somewhat dorsally. In the horizontal optical section shown in fig. 57 

 they have reached a position which, I think, is their final one. In this 

 movement they not only have changed their position with regard to one 

 another, but also with regard to the median plane of the embryo. Up 

 to the time of the closure of the blastopore the mesomeres are situated 

 at the left of the ventral mid-line, but, as shown in fig. 57, at the 

 close of this movement the mesomeres are bilaterally situated with 

 respect to the median plane of the embryo. 



The cause of this shifting apart is not clear, but I think it is to be 

 explained by the peculiar shape of the entomeres. These are, at the 

 time the blastopore closes, pyramidal in form, with their apices at 

 the blastopore. This point, as will be seen by reference to figs. 53 

 and 55, is just anterior to the junction of the mesomeres. After the 

 ectoderm of the ventral plate has enclosed the mesomeres, they are 

 subjected to a pressure from the ectoderm which tends to force them 

 inward against the narrow ends of the entomeres. These latter press 

 in between the mesomeres and wedge them apart. They are, however, 

 prevented from passing backwards, and in fact compelled to move 




724 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



forward, by contact with the cells of the X group. In Thalassenia there 

 occurs a similar shifting apart of the mesomeres, which Torrey (1903) 

 also explains as being caused by pressure of the entomeres. 



The position occupied by the mesomeres is at first sight somewhat 

 different from that occupied by similar cells among the mollusks and 

 annelids. In the majority of these forms the mesomeres, soon after 

 their formation, are invaginated into the cleavage cavity. In Dino- 

 philus they remain on the exterior until covered by ectoderm, when 

 they move laterally to the entoderm. There was, however, at an 

 early stage a cleavage cavity between the ectoderm and the entoderm, 

 and had the mesomeres moved into it, then their behavior would have 

 been that of the corresponding cells in most mollusks and annelids. 

 As it is, their migration into the cleavage cavity is postponed until a 

 later period of the history of the embryo, but their final position is 

 not essentially different from that of other forms. 



In fig. 57 a band of mesoblast cells is seen on each side of the ento- 

 derm, running forward from the mesomeres, which are in division. 

 The mesoblast is also shown in fig. 59 ventral to the entoderm. 



The later history of the mesoblast has not been followed out in detail. 

 It is my hope to be able at a later period to determine precisely to 

 what organs and tissues the mesomeres contribute, but it seems fairly 

 certain that they give rise to the mesenchyme and sex organs (ovaries) 

 of the adult. 



Of especial interest would be the fate of the first two products of 

 each mesomere, in the light of the discovery made by Conklin (1897) 

 that part of 4d is in Crepidula entodermal. 



Following Conklin's discovery, Wilson (1897) in Xereis, Treadwell 

 (1901) in Podarke and Torrey (1903) in Tlialassema found that part 

 of the mesomeres in these forms was entodermal, I have not been 

 able to follow out the fate of the first two products of each meso- 

 mere, since their small size and position causes them to become inextri- 

 cably blended with the ectodermal cells surrounding the posterior lip 

 of the blastopore. The position of three of these cells in the mid-line 

 suggests, however, that their fate may be different from that of the 

 other products of the mesomeres. 



IX.— Axial Relations. 



The discussion of the axial relations of the Dinophilus embrj'o falls 

 naturally under two heads, viz. : (1) The relation of the first and second 

 cleavage planes to the future median plane of the adult, and (2) the 

 shifting of areas which occurs in relation to the closure of the blasto- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 725 



pore. Both of these questions have received much attention from 

 embryologists, and have been so thoroughly discussed by the writers 

 on cell-Hneage that it would be superfluous for me to attempt here to 

 treat the subject at length, and so I shall confine m3^self to stating what 

 these relations are in the Dinophilns embryo and to comparing them 

 with a few other forms. 



As already mentioned, the cell 2d is of very great value as a landmark. 

 From its origin up to the time when the last traces of it are seen, it 

 marks the posterior end of the embryo. Of course it may be said that 

 since the first three cleavages are of the spiral type, and not of the 

 bilateral type, and since x^ and x^ are not exactly eqvial in size, that the 

 centre of 2d before these cleavages could not well be situated at the 

 same point as that of 2d after them. This, however, is not a point of 

 practical importance. To all intents and purposes the centre of the 

 cell 2d lies in the future median plane of the embryo. The animal and 

 vegetal poles lie in this plane, so that its relation to the cleaving egg 

 can now be determined. 



2d, after its formation, lies in the furrow between Ic and ID. A 

 glance at the figures from fig. 10 to fig. 33 shows that the second cleav- 

 age plane between the macromcres, up to the 72-ccll stage (fig. 33), very 

 nearly coincides with the median plane of the embryo, since both 2d 

 and the vegetal pole lie in this furrow. At the 72-cell stage, however, 

 these relations are beginning to undergo a change. As described under 

 the history of the entomeres, the macromeres undergo a rotation 

 through 45 degrees, bringing 5D and 5B into the former plane of the 

 second cleavage. This point will be made clear by reference to figs. 

 50 and 52. The median plane of the embryo and adult then passes 

 through 5B and 5D, and forms an angle of 45 degrees with the plane of 

 the second cleavage between the original macromeres. In conclusion, 

 it follows, since 2d marks the posterior region of the embryo, and since 

 during the early cleavage stages it lies in the furrow between the pos- 

 terior macromeres, that the second cleavage plane does coincide in a 

 general way with the future sagittal plane of the embryo, although it 

 is evident that at the 4-cell stage the cleavage plane between C and D 

 must pass to the right of the sagittal plane of the embryo. This 

 result is at variance with the results obtained among the Annelida by 

 most writers, though Wilson (1892) found that the second cleavage 

 coincides with the sagittal plane of the future embryo. Much import- 

 ance, however, cannot be attached to these relations of the entomeres 

 with the embryo, since they are the result of shiftings between the 

 macromeres and micromeres, which may occur at an early period. In 




726 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Dinophilus, for example, the members of the first quartette when' first 

 formed lie in the furrows between the macromeres ; at the next cleav- 

 age they are shifted in a sinistral direction, so that they lie precisely 

 over their parent macromeres (cf. figs. 8 and 10), and this relative 

 position is retained up to the formation of the fifth quartette. In 

 Amphitrite (Mead, 1897) and Arenicola (Child, 1900) this sinistral 

 totation does not bring the micromeres so precisely over the corres- 

 ponding macromeres. 



In considering the relation of the cleavage plane with the embryonic 

 axis, the micromeres are of far more importance than the macromeres. 

 An examination of the figures of the later cleavages will show that the 

 planes of the first and second cleavages as traced over the entire embryo 

 do not coincide with its transverse and sagittal planes, but that here 

 the rule laid down by Lillie (1895) holds good, viz.: "The members of 

 the odd generations of ectomeres, as well as the entomeres, are 

 distributed two each, right and left of the middle line; those of the 

 even generations are placed anterior, posterior, right and left." 



The shifting of the axis, which is largely concerned in bringing about 

 the closure of the blastopore, has been already described in chapter V. 

 It was there spoken of as a forward movement of the first quartette, 

 or rather of the ectoderm of the anterior half of the embryo. This 

 shifting, I think, might better be looked upon as a shifting backward 

 of the ectoderm of the posterior half of the embryo, considering the 

 animal pole as the fixed point. In the first case the blastopore would 

 be closed from in front backward; in the latter from behind forward, 

 which brings it into line with what we know of other forms. In either 

 case the egg axis is bent through an angle of nearly 90 degrees, but not 

 quite, since the animal pole is, as Wilson (1892) showed to be the case 

 in Nereis, probably slightly dorsal to the anterior pole of the embryo. 

 This shifting of areas during the process of gastrulation is almost pre- 

 cisely similar to that which occurs in Crepidula, as described by Conk- 

 lin (1897). There is in that form a bending of the egg axis through 

 90 degrees, and also caused by rapid growth of the cells of the D quad- 

 rant, which pushes forward the ectoderm of the aboral surface over the 

 entoderm, the vegetative pole being apparently the fixed point. This 

 condition is attributed by Conklin to the accinnulation of yolk in the 

 entoderm cells, and doubtless this is the cause of the similar relations 

 existing between entoderm and ectoderm in Dinophilus, the solid 

 yolk-laden mass of entoderm cells altering their form and relative 

 positions but little, while the ectoderm is shifted over them. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 727 



X. — The Phylogenetic Relationships of Dinophilus in the 

 Light of Its Early Development. 



In this chapter I wish to briefly compare the early development of 

 Dinophilus with that of other groups, and to consider what light a 

 study of its cell-lineage sheds on its systematic position. That the 

 study of cell-lineage is of value in determining relationship has been 

 abundantly shown by the results accomplished in this particular branch 

 of zoological research. These have in a most striking degree corrobo- 

 rated the results attained by the study of comparative anatomy, and 

 have further shown that in a large number of forms, representative of 

 large and important groups, the characters of the various forms as 

 manifested in the cleavage are as constant as the anatomical characters, 

 and must therefore be as truly inherited. Furthermore, since coeno- 

 genetic changes may be supposed to affect the later stage of develop- 

 ment first, we may expect to find the earlier stages retaining longer their 

 primitive characters, although even the earliest stages have been 

 affected by precocious segregation and are no longer highly primitive. 

 The study of the early development cannot be regarded as a sure or 

 certain guide in determining relationship in every case, yet it may, 

 I think, be very properly called to aid in the determination of the 

 relationships of doubtful forms. In the case of Dinophilus, the cleav- 

 age has presented such startling and accurate resemblances to the 

 chsetopod annelids that it seems impossible that they do not indicate 

 relationship, for so many and minute correspondences could hardly 

 have arisen independently. I have already stated these resemblances 

 separately, but wish here to bring them together, in order that their 

 force may be more apparent. 



In the first place the manner of origin of the germ layers — ectoderm 

 arising from the first three quartettes, mesoderm from the left posterior 

 member of the fourth quartette, and entoderm from the remaining 

 cells — brings Dinophilus into a list of forms already large and still 

 increasing, containing members of the Lamellibranchia, Gasteropoda, 

 Polychaeta and Echiuridse. In common with many Annelida and 

 Mollusca the larger part (or all) of the ectoderm of the trunk is 

 derived from one cell, the posterior member of the second quartette. 

 A little later the resemblances to the annelids become more marked. 

 In the development of the second preoral ciliated band of Dinophilus 

 is recognized the prototroch of the trochophore, and the earliest rudi- 

 ment of the brain appears at the same point as the annelid "Scheitel- 

 platte." There are, however, in the cleavages themselves resem- 

 blances to the cleavage of the polychajte annelids which are most 




728 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



striking, viz., in the origin of the bilateral cleavages. In the cross 

 and in the products of 2d the transition from the spiral type of 

 cleavage to the more specialized bilateral type occurs in precisely 

 the same cells and in precisely the same directions as in the Poly- 

 chseta. Moreover, the second bilateral divisions of the cells of the 

 posterior arms of the cross continue this resemblance. All these 

 characters, if such they may be called, when viewed as a whole, 

 point in no uncertain way to a descent from the annelid stem, and at 

 a point not far from that at which the Polychaeta arose. 



If we consider, as I think at present we must, that the trochophore 

 is a larval form common at least to the Annelida, we cannot regard the 

 development of Dinophilus as primitive. This view is upheld by many 

 features of the cleavage, especially by the many departures from the 

 spiral type exemplified in the divisions of the primary trochoblasts 

 and many other cells, and also in the discrepancy between the size of 

 2b and 3b as compared with their sister cells. Further evidence of 

 secondary change is found in the enormous size of 2d and 4d, which 

 have acquired a very large amount of cytoplasm in order to supply 

 material to build up the trunk region, which in the trochophore is 

 ordinarily acquired from the exterior through active feeding. Besides 

 these there is the retarded development of the adult organs, which do 

 not become functional until the animal is nearly ready to hatch, but 

 which must have been primitively functional at a much earlier period. 

 Such organs are the intestine and prototroch. The latter, together 

 with the rosette^ and possibly the perianal band of cilia, which may 

 represent the paratroch, are the sole relics of organs peculiar to the 

 trochophore. It is to be regarded as doubtful if even these would now 

 be recognizable, were it not for the fact that these are also concerned 

 in the formation of adult organs. How quickly such a larval organ as 

 the prototroch may disappear is illustrated in the development of 

 Sternaspis (Child, 1900), where the prototroch has entirely disappeared, 

 though this larval organ is highly developed in related forms. Thus 

 in the light of the cleavage, as well as in that afforded by the more 

 recent work on the anatomy of Dinophilus, Metschnikoff's conjecture 

 appears almost prophetic. Dinophilus probably is to be regarded as a 

 "stationare Annelidenlarva," but one in which the larval stage has 

 become an end stage toward which the development tends and which 

 has become correspondingly modified. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 729 



Postscript. 



Since the above paper was presented for publication there have come 

 to hand two papers by Prof. John H. Gerould: "The Development of 

 Phascolosoma " {Arch. Zool. exp. et gen. 11, 2, 1904) and " Studies on 

 the Embryology of the Sipunculidse: I. The Embryonal Envelope 

 and Its Homologies " {Mark Anniversarj/ Volume, Art. XXII). In 

 the former of these two papers Prof Gerould shows that in Phasco- 

 losoma the ectoderm arises from the first three quartettes of micro- 

 meres, the mesoderm from 4d, and the entoderm from the remaining 

 cells, thus adding a representative of the Sipunculids to the list of 

 forms mentioned in section IV (4) of the present paper. The author 

 further points out the presence of a typical annelid "cross" and 

 "rosette" in Phascolosoma, that the prototroch of the larva is formed 

 from the sixteen "primary trochoblasts," and that the "somatic 

 plate" arises from 2d. The second paper mentioned, among other 

 interesting facts concerning the relation of the larva of Sipunculus 

 and Phascolosoma, establishes the homology of the "serosa" of 

 Phascolosoma with the prototroch of Sipu7iculus. 




730 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



731 



U3J3 



coco 





CO 




732 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



rvj fO. 



O 



< 



Q 

 < 



D 





o 



pa 

 < 





«_? 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



733 



< 



o 



o 



H 




734 proceedings of the academy of [oct., 



Literature Cited. 



1880. Balfour. Comparative Emhryology. Vol. 1. 



1861. Beneden, P. J. VAN. Sur un nouveau Nemertien de la cote d'Ostende. 

 BiiU. de VAcad. R. de Belgique, XVIII, 1. 



1883. Blochmann, F. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Entwickelung der Gastero- 

 poden. Zeit. wiss. ZooL, XXXVIII. 



1900. Carazzi, Dav. L'embriologia dell' Aplysia limacina L. Anat. Anz., 



XVII, 4 and 5. 

 1900. Child, C. M. The Early Development of Arenicola and Sternaspis. 



Archiv Entwickehings Mech., IV, 9. 



1897. CoNKLiN, E. G. The Embryology of Crcpidula. Journ. Morph., XIII, 1. 



1902. CoNKLiN, E. G. Kar5'okinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, Fer- 

 tilization and Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gasteropoda. Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d Series, XII. 1. 



1874. DiEsiNG, C. Revision der TurbeUarien. Sitzungsber. K. Acad. d. Wiss. 

 Wien, XLIV, 1, and XFV, 1. 



1898. Elsig, Hugo. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Capitelliden. Mittheil. 

 ZooL Stat. Neapel, 13. 



1875. FoL, H. Sur le Developpement des Pteropodes. Arch. ZooL e.rp. et 

 gen., 5. 



1882. Graff, L. Monographie der TurbeUarien, I. Leipzig, 1882. 



1889. Harmer, S. F. Notes on the Anatomy of Dinophilus. Journ. Marine 



Biol. Assn. United Kingdom (N. S.), I. 

 1885. Hatschek, B. Entwickelung der Trochophora von Eupomatus uncinatus 



Phillipi. Arh. ZooL Inst. Wien, 6. 



1899. Heath, Harold. The Development of Ischnochiton. ZooL Jahrb. 

 Abth. /. Anat. u. Ontog., XII. 



1893. Heymons, Richard. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte von I'mbrella 

 mediterranea Lam. Zeit. Wiss. ZooL, 56. 



1900. Holmes, S. J. The Early Development of Planorbis. Journ. Morph., 

 XVI, 2. 



1895. Jennings, H. S. The Early Development of Asplanchna Herricki De 

 Guerne. Bzdl. Mus. Comp. ZooL Harvard ColL, XXX. 



1894. KoFoiD, C. A. On Some Laws of Cleavage in Limax. Proc. Am. Acad. 

 Arts and Sci. (N. S.), XXI. 



1882. KoRSCHELT, EuGEN. Ueber Bau und Entwicklung des Dinophilus 



apatris. Zeit. iviss. ZooL, XXXVII. 

 1893. KoRSCHELT, EuGEN, und Heider, Karl. Lehrbuch der vergleichenden 



Anatomic. Specieller Theil, Kap. X. 



1884. Lang, Arnold. Die Polycladen (Seeplanarien) des Golfes von Neapel 

 vmd der angrenzenden Meereabschnitte. Fauna und Flora des Golfes von 

 Neapel, XI. 



1895. LiLLiE, F. R. The Embryology of the Unionidse. Journ. Morph., X. 

 1897. Mead, A. D. The Early Development of Marine Annelids. Journ. 



Morph.,XUl,2. 



1901. Meisenheimer, Jok. Entwickelungsgeschichte von Dreissensia poly- 

 morpha. Zeit. wiss. ZooL, 69, 1. 



1879. Mereschkowsky, C. Ueber einige TurbeUarien des weissen Meeres. 



ArcJiiv fur Naturgesch., XU, 1. 

 1866. Mecznikow, E. Apsilus lentiformis, ein Raderthier. Zeit. wiss. ZooL, 



XVI. 

 1887. Meyer, E. Studien ueber den Korperbau der Anneliden. Mitth. ZooL 



Stat. Neapel, VII. 

 1899. Moore, Anne. Dinophilus gardneri (sp. nov.). Biol. Bull., 1, Oct. 

 1886. Repiachoff. Zur Anatomic und Entwickelungsgeschichte des Dinophilus 



gyrocilatus O. Schmidt. Zapiski Notvoross. ObtscJiestwa, etc., X, 1. Odessa. 

 1903. Robert, A. Recherches sur le Developpement des Troques. Paris. 



Arch. zool. exp. Se serie. X. 

 1861. Schmarda, L. K. Neue wirbellose Thiere beobachtet und gesamnndt auf 



einer Reise um die Erde. I. TurbeUarien, Rotatorien und Anneliden. 



Leipzig. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 735 



189.5. ScHiMKEwiTscH, W. Zur Kenntniss des Baues und des Entwickelung 

 des Dinophilus vom Weissen Meere. Zeit. wiss. Zool., LIX, 1. 



1848. Schmidt, Oscar. Neue Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Wurmer. Jena. 

 1882. Schmidt, Oscar. Handbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomic, 8. Jena. 



1849. ScHULTZE, Max. Ueber die Microstomeen, eine Familie der Turbellarien. 

 Troschel's Archiv, XV, 1. 



1893. Stauffacher, H. Eibildung und Furchung bei Cvclas cornea. Jena 

 Zeit. f. Naturw., XXVIII. 



1902. ToRREY, J. C. The Early Development of the Mesoblast in Thalassema. 

 Anat. Anz., XXI, 9. 



1903. ToRREY, J. C. The Early Embrj^ologv of Thalassema Mellita (Conn'). 

 Ann. New York Acad. Sci., XIV, 3. 



1901. Treadwell, a. L. The Cytogeny of Podarke obscura Verrill. Journ. 



Morph., XVII, 3. 

 1895. Verrill, A. E. Dinophilidse of New England. Trans. Connecticut Acad. 



Arts and Sci., VIII. 

 1886. Weldon, W. F. R. On Dinophilus gigas. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. 

 1878. Whitman, C. O. The Embryology of Clepsine. Quart. Journ. Micr. 



Soc, XVIII. 

 1897. Wierzejski, Anton. Ueber die Entwickelung des Mesoderms bei Physa 



fontinalis L. Biol. Centralblatt, XVII, 11. 



1891. Wistinghausen, C. v. Untersuchungen ueber die Entwickelung von 

 Nereis DumeriUi. Alitth. Zool. Stat. Neapel, 10. 



1892. Wilson, E. B. The Cell-Lineage of Nereis. Journ. Morph., VI, 3. 



1897. Wilson, E. B. Considerations on Cell-Lineage and Ancestral Reminis- 

 cence. Ann. New York Acad. Sci., XI, 1. 



1898. Wilson, E. B. Cell-Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscence. Ann. New 

 York Acad. Sci., XI, 1. 



Explanation op Plates XLIII-XLVIII. 



The figures have, with few exceptions, been drawn with the camera lucida at 

 the table level under Zeiss homo. imm. yV, oc. 2. With whatever lenses used 

 however, all the figures were drawn to the same scale of magnification. 



Reference Letters. 



bl.. Blastopore. mes., Mesoderm. 



br.. Brain. pr., Proctoda?um. 



br. com., Commissure of brain. pro.. Proboscis. 



gl.. Gland st., Stomod^um. 



int.l.. Lumen of intestine. sto.l.. Lumen of stomach. 



m., Mouth. v.p.. Ectoderm of ventral plate. 



Plate XLIII, Fig. 1. — Unsegmented o\aim, after the expulsion of the second 

 polar body. The female pronucleus lies at the animal pole of the 

 egg, surrounded on its lower side by a large aster. The sperm nu- 

 cleus, with its accompanying aster, is seen to the right of and below 

 the centre of the ovum. 



Fig. 2. — Unsegmented ovum after union of the two pronuclei. 



Fig. 3.— Early anaphase of first cleavage spindle. The cell-body is begin- 

 ning to elongate. 



Fig. 4. — Two cells. Prophases of spindles for second cleavage. 



Fig. 5.— Two cells. A-B in metaphase, C-D in anaphase of division. 



Figs. 6 and 7. — Four cells. Spindle fibres still connecting A and B. Ani- 

 mal pole. 



Fig. 8. — Seven to eight cells. Animal pole. Ic and Id formed and in pro- 




736 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [[Oct., 



phase of next division, la just formed and lb in process of forma- 

 tion. Ic is taking in one of the polar bodies. 



Fig. 9.— Nine cells, left side. 2d just formed; Id preparing to give off Id^. 



Fig. 10. — Twelve cells, animal pole, la^ just formed. 



Fig. 11. — Thirteen to fourteen cells, animal pole, lb about to divide. 



Fig. 12.— Thirteen to fourteen cells, right side. 2c just formed; 2d=X 

 dividing to form x*. 

 Plate XLIV, Fig. 13. — Thirteen to fourteen cells, left side. 2a in process of 

 formation. 



Fig. 14.— Twenty-six cells, animal pole, lb*-' just formed; Ic'-^ and Id'-' 

 preparing to form rosette. 



Fig. 15. — Twenty-six cells from right side. Spindle fibres connecting] 3C 

 and 3c; Ic^ preparing to divide. 



Fig. 16. — Twenty-six cells, left side. 2a and 3D preparing to divide; spindle 

 fibres connecting X and x^, and 3A and 3a. 



Fig. 17. — Twenty-sLx cells, vegetal pole, x'-^ forming; 3D in metaphase 

 of division. 



Fig. 18.— Twenty-eight cells, left side. 2a' formed; cell body of 3D 

 elongated. 



Fig. 19. — Twenty-eight cells, right side. 2B in division. 



Fig. 20. — Forty cells, animal pole. Ic'-'-^ and Id'-'-^ preparing for tlieir 

 first bilateral division. 



Fig. 21. — Forty cells, right side. 

 Plate XLV, Fig. 22.— Forty cells, left side. 



Fig. 23. — Forty-two cells, right side. 4c just formed. 



Fig. 24. — Forty-two cells, vegetal pole. 4d preparing for bilateral division. 



Fig. 25. — Fifty-four cells, animal pole. Bilateral division of the posterior 

 stem cells of the first quartette completed. 



Fig. 26.— Fifty-four cells, right side. 2c^' formed. 



Fig. 27.— Fifty-four cells, left side. 



Fig. 28.— Fifty-four cells, vegetal pole. Bilateral division of 4d completed; 

 X preparing for bilateral division. 



Fig. 29. — Fifty-three cells, anterior end. Divisions of 3A, 2b, 3b, lb and 

 2c^ shown. 



Fig. 30. — Seventy-two cells. Division of cells of posterior arms of cross ; 

 arm of cross in the B quadrant just formed. 

 Plate XL VI, Fig. 31. — Seventy-two cells, right side. 



Fig. 32. — Seventy-two cells, left side. 



Fig. 33. — Seventy-two cells, vegetal pole, x^-^ divided; 5d just formed. 



Fig. 34.— Eighty-one cells, right side. 2&'^- and 2c'- divided. 



Fig. 35. — Eighty-one cells, left side. 2a}-'^ and 2s} in process of division. 



Fig. 36. — Eighty-one cells, vegetal pole. Dexiotropic division of M. and M. 



Fig. 37. — Eighty-nine cells, animal pole. Division of Ib''^-'. 



Figs. 38 and 39. — Eighty-nine cells, right and left sides respectively. 

 Plate XLVII, Fig. 40. — Eighty-nine cells, vegetal pole. 



Figs. 42-49. — Products of 2d=X viewed from the posterior end. Fig. 42 

 was drawn from the same ovum as represented in Fig. 20 ; Fig. 44 

 likewise corresponds to Fig. 30; Fig. 45 to Figs. 34-36; and Fig. 47 

 to Fig. 37. 



Fig. 50. — Vegetal pole. Formation of 5a and second division of M and M. 



Fig. 51.— Vegetal pole. 4c divided; 4a and 4b dividing. 



Fig. 52. — Division of entomeres completed. 

 Plate XLVIII, Figs. 53 and 55.— Two stages during the closure of the blasto- 

 pore. They show also the division of X and X to form x^ and x'. 



Figs. 54 and 56. — Optical sagittal sections of same, showing change in 

 form of the entoderm cells and the inward migration of their nuclei. 



Fig. 57. — Horizontal optical section of embryo at the time of the appear- 

 ance of the stomodseum. The mesomeres, which are seen in division, 

 have moved apart. In front of each mesomere is seen the band of 

 mesoblast to which it has given rise. 



Fig. 58. — Optical sagittal section of same stage, showing formation of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 737 



stomodseum. At the anterior end is also seen the ectodermal 

 thickening which gives rise to the brain. 



Fig. 59. — Sagittal section of a much later stage than the last. The stomo- 

 dseum has assumed the position of the definitive mouth, while the 

 entoderm cells have multiplied and arranged themselves about the 

 rudiment of the intestinal lumen. Below the entoderm cells is seen 

 the mesoderm. 



rig.'60. — Sagittal section of a late stage. The entoderm cells now form 

 an epithelial layer about a well-defined lumen. The rudiment of the 

 intestine is making its appearance. 



Fig. 61. — Horizontal section of an embryo with four segments. 



Fig. 62. — Transverse section of a stage similar to that illustrated in Fig. 

 60, showing the relations of the three germ layers. 




738 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



THE DEVELOPMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE LARVA OF PARAGORDIUS. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR., 

 Professor of Zoology in the University of Texas. 



The embryology of the Gordiacea is a subject full of mystery and 

 interest, notwithstanding the attempts at its solution. It is one 

 fraught with technical difficulties, and one where the obtaining of 

 material is usually a matter of chance. With a peculiar delight then, 

 after many vain attempts to collect the eggs, I found in March and 

 April of the present year numerous adults of both sexes, with egg- 

 strings in abundance, of Paragordius varius (Leidy) in a small stream 

 that passes through the town of Austin, Texas. 



Ovipositing females were brought to the laboratory, and the egg- 

 strings kept for weeks in small jars of water aerated by plants. The 

 full-formed larval stage is reached in from ten to twelve days, and 

 these larvfe live for more than a week longer before they leave the 

 egg-membranes. After leaving the latter they live for only a few 

 days unless they reach their proper host. 



In Texas, as in Pennsylvania, the last host is the large cricket 

 {Acheta abbreviata) ; in this host are found individuals from about one- 

 third the ultimate size to the adult stage. As is well known for all 

 the species of Gordiacea, the adults leave their terminal hosts and come 

 into the water, wdiere the eggs are fertilized and laid. Whether the 

 cricket is the only host of Paragordius varius, or whether there is a pre- 

 ceding one into which the larva first enters, I have not yet been able 

 to determine. Attempts were made to infect crickets with larvae, by 

 crushing the egg-strings containing the latter so as to liberate the larva, 

 and placing drops of water filled with the larvae upon grass fed to the 

 crickets. None of the adult crickets lived longer than a month in 

 confinement; and each one out of about 75 kept under observation 

 was examined in vain at the time of its death for Paragordius larv£e. 

 Crushed egg-strings were placed in water containing Amphipods 

 (Gammarids) ; at the end of two weeks the Amphipods showed numer- 

 ous larvffi encysted in the intestine and musculature, but these larvae 

 underwent no further development. Terrestrial Isopods (Oniscus) 

 found in damp places were placed in contact with water containing 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 739 



larvae, and such water was dropped upon their mouths; two weeks 

 later a single one of them showed a single larva in the intestine, en- 

 cysted but dead. Pieces of egg-strings were placed in aquaria with 

 brook minnows ; the fish some three weeks later showed larvae encysted 

 in the intestine, and a few in the muscles, but here again no further 

 development of the larva? was obtained. Finally infection attempts 

 were made with tadpoles of Bufo. The first lot of tadpoles were small 

 (but operculum present), and crushed egg-strings were placed in their 

 water on April 12; most of the tadpoles died between the 16th and the 

 ISth of Api-il, the last on the 19th; the autopsy showed large numbers 

 of larvae (not encysted) in the intestine, but most if not all of the larva 

 were dead. About the same results were reached with two other lots. 

 Larvae placed in w^ater containing mosquito larvae {Culex) encysted 

 themselves in the mosquitoes and soon caused their death. 



These results are, of course, quite indecisive, except in showing that 

 mosquito larvae and toad tadpoles cannot l)e normal hosts of the 

 parasites. So I have not been able to secure the early post-larval 

 development of Paragordius, and in the present contribution shall 

 deal with that literature only which concerns the development up 

 to the larval stage. 



Since the ultimate host is a land insect, while the parasites are at 

 first aquatic, it is of value to determine how long the mature worms 

 can withstand desiccation. One adult female within a few hours after 

 emerging from a cricket was placed in a dry dish ; four hours afterward 

 she was alive, but with dry cuticle; eighteen hours afterward she was 

 shriveled up and did not resuscitate on being placed in water. Several 

 adult females, a few hours after escaping from crickets, were placed in 

 an open dish on moist filter paper; twenty-four hours afterward they 

 were still alive though the body surface was dry, and on placing them 

 in water they lived for several days. Egg-strings when dried shrivel 

 up and the eggs die quickly. 



Portions of egg-strings at timed periods were preserved in three 

 fixatives: Zenker's fluid, made up of 5 per cent, of corrosive sublimate 

 and 5 per cent, of glacial acetic acid in Miiller's solution (bichromate 

 of potash 2 parts, sulphate of soda 1 part, water 100 parts) ; a mixture 

 of 95 per cent, alcohol, 3 per cent, nitric acid, and aqueous solution of 

 corrosive sul^limate in equal parts; and a mixture of glacial acetic 

 acid 10 parts, and 95 per cent, alcohol 90 parts. The fixation with 

 Zenker's fluid is by far the best of these, producing no distortion and 

 preserving admirably dalicate cellular details. To my surprise I found, 

 contrary to the results of other workers, that the ova, despite their 




740 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



membranes, are readily penetrated, and that all alcoholic and strong- 

 acid solutions are to be avoided, Flemming's fluid (osmic acid, acetic 

 acid and chromic acid) penetrates easily, but blackens the tissues too 

 quickly. A fixation of three to twenty hours in Zenker's fluid is 

 followed by rinsing in distilled water for fully the same length of time ; 

 then the egg-strings are brought through successive alcohol grades up 

 to 83 per cent. They remain in the latter for several days, then are 

 brought down gradually to distilled water. With each egg-string in a 

 narrow, round-bottomed vial, I take a glass rod and thoroughly crush 

 the egg-string in water after it has been well hardened in alcohol ; thus 

 the eggs are easily freed from each other and none are lost. An 

 aqueous stain is then poured upon them; and for material fixed in 

 Zenker's fluid I found Delafield's hsematoxyline, diluted with an equal 

 volume of water, for two to three hours, the best. The ova, still within 

 the same vial, are brought up through successive grades of alcohol to 

 absolute alcohol, half an hour in each grade; then into a mixture of 

 equal parts of absolute alcohol and xylol ; then into pure xylol. They 

 are then mounted in Canada balsam. These methods have been given 

 in detail, because only after numerous failures have I been able to 

 secure fine preparations. In the structure of the larva much can be 

 determined by study of it in life. And one can best investigate the 

 armature of the proboscis by causing it to be permanently evaginated 

 through treatment with a rather strong aqueous solution of caustic 

 potash; this swells up the whole body. Sections were made of numer- 

 ous egg-strings, but the paraffine imbedding causes great distortion 

 of the cells, and it is necessary to imbed for several hours. The 

 whole mounts of the ova and larvse were the most instructive. 



1. The Early Development. 



The structure of the adult reproductive organs has been previously 

 described by me (1903) in detail, and it is necessary here to recall only 

 a few points to make the development clear. The ovaries are a pair 

 of long tubes extending nearly the entire length of the body, each con- 

 sisting of a longitudinal tube, the "uterus" of the authors, and of very 

 numerous lateral diverticula or pouches, "ovaries" in the narrow 

 sense, each of which communicates by an apertui'e with the uterus. 

 The posterior ends of the two uteri are ciliated, and are termed the 

 oviducts, and these open into the atrium, into the anterior end of 

 which opens also the large receptaculum seminis. The end of the 

 intestine communicates with the atrium, and from that point to the 

 posterior end of the body extends the tubular cloaca, with the cloacal 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 741 



aperture between the three tail lobes. The atrium is lined with a 

 glandular epithelium, as is also the proximal end of the cloaca; the 

 remainder of the cloaca bears a cuticular lining. 



The egg-cells contained in the lateral diverticula of the ovaries 

 of adult females (individuals whose external cuticula is of a dark color) 

 are all ovocytes of the first order at the end of the growth period (fig. 1, 

 PI. XLIX). The nucleus is more or less central in position, contains 

 one large dcepl}^ staining nucleolus, and a nuclear sap which shows no 

 trace of chromatin and only in a few cases exceedingly delicate linin 

 fibres ; even strong iron hsematoxyline stains fail to demonstrate chro- 

 matin particles. The cell-body evinces a zone of yolk globules (shaded 

 in figs. 1 and 15), placed near the periphery; while the cytoplasm is 

 coarsely alveolar, and the meshes of very regular size in the perinuclear 

 area. 



Wliile these ovocytes are passing from the "ovaries" to the "uteri," 

 but before they have entered the latter, their nuclei are in prophases 

 of the first maturation mitosis; such stages are shown in figs. 2-5. 

 The nucleolus becomes smaller and stains less intensely, while there 

 appear, usually close to it, chromosomes in the form of long loops 

 (figs. 2, 3) ; these do not first appear simultaneously, but successively. 

 These chromosomes shorten into the form of minute dumbbell-shaped 

 bodies, seven in number (fig. 4), and for the first time is seen in the 

 nucleus an achromatic network (fig. 5). These are bivalent chromo- 

 somes, as shown by their shape and by the fact that there are fourteen 

 single chromosomes in the cells of the embryo. Two points are 

 remarkable in regard to them : first, that no trace of them is to be seen 

 in the preceding rest stage; and second, that they appear in succession 

 close to the nucleolus, and later arc frequently found in a compact 

 group — a condition infrequent in a prophase. The evidence is that 

 these chromosomes come out of the nucleolus, and that during the rest 

 stage they are contained within it. Such a condition has recently 

 been demonstrated for the egg of Asterias by Hartmann (1902); but 

 that it is by no means a usual condition in Metazoa, on the contrary is 

 decidedly unusual, was previously shown by me (1898). As the ovo- 

 cyte enters the uterus the seven double chromosomes are arranged in 

 the equator of the first polar spindle (fig. 6; fig. 7, a pole view of the 

 spindle); this has the form of the corresponding spindle of Ascaris, 

 and no centrosomes are demonstrable. As the ovocytes, closely com- 

 pacted together, are propelled rapidly backward along the uteri antl 

 so through the oviducts into the atrium, the spindle moves gradually 

 nearer the periphery of the egg. 




742 PR(3CEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The females are impregnated with sperm, and the receptaculum 

 seminis filled with a great mass of it, before the ovocytes enter the 

 uteri, so before the first polar spindle is formed. This I have proved 

 by examination of numerous adult females. There is an intimate 

 coition, the male placing his cloacal aperture against that of the female ; 

 and the sperm has to traverse the length of the cloaca before reaching 

 the receptaculum. Ova will apparently not develop unless fertilized, 

 for there was no development at all in the egg-string of a female whose 

 receptaculum was without spermatozoa. In the testes of the adult 

 male only mature spermatozoa are present, and in this species there 

 appears to be no spermatophorcs. 



When the ovocytes reach the atrium they become surrounded by 

 the minute flagellate spermatozoa issuing from the receptaculum, 

 and in the posterior part of the atrium and the proximal end of the 

 cloaca the sperm enters the egg (fig. 6). The pole spindle is now ex- 

 centric; the spermatozoon enters usually at a point of the periphery 

 furthest removed from the spindle, but sometimes quite near it (fig. 

 6). On strongly destained hsematoxyline preparations the spermato- 

 zoon head is sharply distinguishable. The ovocytes are propelled 

 backward within the cloaca compacted into an egg-string. While the 

 ovarian egg has a limiting membrane of very delicate nature, the egg 

 in the proximal part of the cloaca has a thicker membrane that stains 

 with hsematoxyline (fig. 6); this increases in thickness as the egg pro- 

 gresses backward and becomes the outermost envelope of the egg 

 (figs. 8, 10). At the posterior end of the cloaca each egg shows a 

 spermatozoon wathin the cell membrane, and the first polar spindle 

 at the periphery of the cell (fig. 8). At this stage the egg has two 

 membranes: the outer, thinner one staining with chromatin stains, 

 already mentioned, and a thicker inner one that stains faintly with 

 cytoplasmic stains (fig. 8) ; both are closely adherent to the cytoplasm. 

 But where the polar spindle touches the periphery these membranes 

 are not present. It is probable that both these membranes are pro- 

 ducts of the cytoplasm, and not of any gland cells of the genital passages 

 (as I had previously opined), else one could not explain their absence 

 in the region of the polar spindle. The outer membrane has at its 

 inception probably a glutinous nature, serving to hold the eggs 

 together in a string. 



The eggs pass out of the cloaca in a cylindrical continuous string, 

 usually much convoluted, and in the first few days snowy white; the 

 worm may occupy as much as twenty-four hours in the discharge of 

 its egg-string, and then, with its body flaccid and flattened, it expires. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 743 



The first pole-body is cut off by the egg shortly after the expulsion 

 from the body, and when it is cut off the two cell-membranes separate 

 it from the surface of the egg (fig. 9). Shortly afterward these two 

 jnembranes swell, probably by osmotic action of the surrounding water, 

 and together compose a double membrane removed from the surface 

 of the egg (fig. 10), while the cytoplasm has formed a third delicate 

 membrane which remains adherent to it. By this means the first polar 

 body becomes removed from the surface of the egg. The ovocyte of 

 the second order (fig. 10) shows the second polar spindle, like the first 

 in form, and without an intervening rest stage, and this also contains 

 seven chromosomes (fig. 11). The chromosomes are too minute to 

 allow a determination of which of these is the reduction division ; the 

 second polar body is then cut off (fig. 12), but remains adherent to the 

 egg, and the stage of the ovotid is reached. 



During the process of formation of the second polar body the sper- 

 matozoon is changing into the sperm nucleus (figs. 10, 12), in that its 

 head becomes a rounded chromatin mass lying within a clear vacuole. 

 Quite frequently there is polyspermy, but I have no evidence that such 

 cases develop into embryos. When the second polar body is cut off 

 we find the sperm nucleus in the form of a large spherical nucleus, with 

 a nucleolus and a linin network ; and the egg nucleus in a less advanced 

 stage (fig. 13). Finally the two nuclei are seen, both in the rest stage 

 (fig. 14). It is remarkable, and to my knowledge unique in the known 

 cases of fertilization, that the two pronuclei are unequal in volume 

 in the rest stage (fig. 14), as also in the prophases of the first cleavage 

 (fig. 15); not a single case was found in which they were of equal 

 volume. The smaller one appears to be the egg nucleus, because in 

 most cases it is the one nearest the second polar body. Its smaller 

 size is probably due to the fact that it is formed in less time than the 

 sperm nucleus, and that the period is very short between its rest stage 

 and the formation of the first cleavage spindle. 



Fig. 15 shows the two pronuclei in the prophase of the first cleavage, 

 the sperm nucleus being the one at the left hand ; the nuclear membrane 

 of each has disappeared at the point where there is an accumulation 

 of finely structured cytoplasm, resembling the "archoplasm" of the 

 similar stage in Ascaris. Each pronucleus contains a linin network 

 and seven minute chromosomes ; these are shown in the drawing much 

 less distinctly than in the preparation, where the chromosomes are 

 stained intensely blue and the linin very faintly. The first cleavage 

 spindle (fig. 16) contains 14 chromosomes (only 12 seen in this figiu-e), 

 and the spindle, unlike the polar spindles, is pointed at each end ; but 




744 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



neither at this stage nor at any of the later ones have I been able to 

 determine the presence of centrosomes. 



The double egg-membrane, which we saw had become separated 

 from the surface of the egg, is still present and continues to include 

 the embryo until the larval stage is a week old or more. It is a com- 

 plete protection for the egg against any bacterial organisms. 



In the matter of the cleavage I have spent much time in the en- 

 deavor to work out the cell-lineage, but have been unable to do so. 

 The egg is spherical ; the second polar body varies in its position with 

 regard to the axis of the first cleavage spindle; the yolk appears to 

 be rather uniformly distributed near the periphery. So there is no 

 means of orientation of the uncleaved egg. The cleavage is total and 

 adequal (figs. 17-21). The two blastomeres of the 2-ccll stage are 

 almost equal in volume, but one is always slightly larger than the 

 other (fig. 17). In the 4-cell stage (fig. 18) there are two larger blasto- 

 meres and two smaller ones, but the difference is very slight. The axes 

 of the spindles in the 2-cell stage may be parallel or not, and the cells 

 may divide simultaneously or successively. In the 4-cell stage it is 

 most frequent that a line connecting the two smaller blastomeres is 

 perpendicular to one joining the two larger, in such a way that all four 

 blastomeres do not lie in one plane; they apparently never arrange 

 themselves in the T-shape so characteristic of Ascaris. Then the 

 blastomeres are not spherical, but so moulded by mutual contact that 

 it is exceedingly difficult to determine their relative volumes. Again, 

 the blastomeres of the 4-cell stage may divide simultaneously or not. 

 For these reasons I have found it impossible to work out the cell- 

 lineage, without, however, wishing to imply that it may not be per- 

 fectly determinate. 



A coeloblastula (fig. 20) is formed at an early cleavage, sometimes 

 as early as six blastomeres, almost always at the 8-cell stage (fig. 19). 

 At the 16-cell stage (fig. 21) the cleavage-cavity is large. On optical 

 sections one pole of the blastula shows cells somewhat larger than 

 those of the opposite pole. 



While there are but a relatively small number of blastomeres, an 

 invagination of the larger-celled wall of the blastula commences and 

 leads to the establishment of a typical invagination gastrula (figs. 22- 

 27). All the lining (mesentoderm) of the gastroccel is not formed b}^ 

 an inpushing of the wall of the blastula, but it appears rather that only 

 a small number of cells are invaginated, and that by the cell division 

 of these the mesentoderm increases in amount. The orifice of the 

 invagination, the blastopore is very narrow, and in a position that 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 745 



corresponds with the ventro-posterior end of the larva; and the end 

 toward which the mesentoderm turns (figs. 23, 24, 26) is anterior; so 

 we can now distinguish anterior and posterior, dorsal and ventral, right 

 and left. The invaginated layer of cells is a mesentoderm, because from 

 it comes both the mcscnchym and the entoderm, as shown in figs. 25-27, 

 where the mesenchym cells are shaded. From that area where the 

 mesentoderm joins the ectoderm (the outer cell-layer) takes place a 

 proliferation of cells of the mesentoderm, leading to the formation of 

 loose cells and masses of cells, the mesenchym, lying within the cleavage- 

 cavity. Fig. 23 shows just at the blastopore two particularly large 

 blastomeres, which I first took to be mesenchym pole cells; but I 

 found them in only one case, and do not believe there is a proliferation 

 from a pair of pole cells, though the proliferation comes from the region 

 near the blastopore. In no case was there any evidence of formation 

 of the mesenchym from the side of the ectoderm; in these stages the 

 mitotic spindles of the ectoderm cells lie always parallel to their free 

 surface, never perpendicular to it, as would be necessarv for the forma- 

 tion of mesenchym. Particularly decisive in this matter are cases like 

 that shown in fig. 25 — mesentoderm cells dividing at right angles to 

 the surface of the mesentoderm. This embryonic tissue is properly 

 ftiesenchym and not mesoderm, since the cells do not arise as an epi- 

 thelium or in compact masses, but separately; and cases like that of 

 fig, 27, where they appear for a time to compose solid masses, are delu- 

 sive and due to the difficulty of distinguishing the cells. At no stage 

 up through the larva do these cellular elements become epithelia. 



The remainder of the early development may be traced rapidly, and 

 simply in order to clarify the organization of the larva. The blastopore 

 closes early {BL, figs. 24-29), or remains as a very narrow opening. 

 The entoderm grows foi-w- ard and is largest at its apex (fig. 26) ; this 

 portion of the cntodermal canal will become the gland of the larva 

 (figs. 2S-30, GL). By cell division the few first-produced mesen- 

 chym cells form more numerous smaller elements within the 

 cleavage-cavity, shown as the shaded cells in figs. 26-32, The 

 next notable change is that at a point nearl}^ opposite the blasto- 

 pore (BL) the ectoderm thickens (fig. 28), becoming two to three 

 cell-layers deep, whereas elsewhere it has become much thinner; at 

 this stage also the anterior end of the cntodermal canal is becoming 

 constricted off from the remainder. In the next stage the thickened 

 ectoderm mass commences to invaginate (fig. 29), this being the com- 

 mencement of the proboscis; at the inner surface (that surface border- 

 ing on the cleavage-ca^■ity) this invaginated ectoderm shows an annular 

 48 




746 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



proliferation {Di., fig- 29), which is the perceptible beginning of the 

 diaphragm of the larva. Now also the anterior portion of the ento- 

 dermal canal is nearly cut off from the posterior, it is the immature 

 condition of the larval gland {Gl.) ; sometimes, as in fig. 29, its anterior 

 end is pointed and in contact with the ectoderm of the proboscis, and 

 probably this pointed end represents the beginning of the tube duct 

 of the gland; at least I have no fiurther evidence as to the mode of 

 development of the duct. Fig. 30 shows the ectodermal invagination 

 further progressed, and the gland {Gl.) completely cut off from the 

 intestine {In.)] the mesoderm cells are numerous. In the stage of 

 fig. 31 the embryo is bent upon itself, comma-shaped, since the growth 

 is not of volume but of length, and the double egg-membrane prevents 

 growth in a straight line. The embryo is bent in the region of the 

 diaphragm {Di.). The diaphragm and the whole proboscis anterior 

 to it is ectodermal, except for a few mesenchym cells (shaded) that 

 have now become young muscle cells. Behind the diaphragm, all 

 that region which may be termed the "trunk," we find entoderm com- 

 posing the embryonic intestine {In.) and gland {GL), mesenchym 

 (shaded), and a thin layer of ectoderm which, on the ventral surface 

 near the diaphragm, is thickened (embryonic nervous epitheliiun). 

 Fig. 32 is an immature larva with the armature of the proboscis 

 developed. 



During these stages the ectoderm of the surface of the body becomes 

 very thin, and its component cells fewer in number (compare figs. 27 

 and 31) ; this is evidently due to a participation of the whole ectodermic 

 layer in the proboscidial invagination. In the intestine also the nuclei 

 move to the two ends (compare figs. 29 and 32), so that elsewhere 

 the intestinal wall becomes very thin. The blastopore is completely 

 closed, but its position still marked by the angle of junction of the 

 ectoderm (hypodermis) and entoderm (intestine). The gland loses 

 its central lumen, 



2, The Larva (Plate L). 



The larva is still included within the double egg-membrane, and is 

 not noticeably larger in volume than the egg-cell, so that during all 

 this time it can have taken no nourishment from without. 



A transverse diaphragm (fig. S6, Di.), the margins of which are 

 fused with the hypodermis {Hy.), separates the body into two regions 

 an anterior proboscis and a posterior head-trunk. The diaphragm is 

 with difficulty demonstrable, somewhat thicker than the hypodermis, 

 and staining slightly with ha?matoxyline ; on its anterior surface are 




190i.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 747 



a few nuclei, of which four central ones are notably conspicuous. 

 It is traversed only by the duct (Gl.d.) of the gland (GL). It is 

 owing to the presence of this diaphragm that movements of the 

 proboscis cause no movements whatever of the fluid within the cavity 

 (archicoel) of the head-trunk. 



The proboscis is seen in evaginated condition in fig. 36, in contracted 

 in fig. 37. The evagination is due to the contraction of longitudinal 

 muscles (Mus.) lying beneath the body wall and reflected over the : 

 axial stalk of the proboscis. A contraction of these muscles evaginates 

 the armature, partly perhaps by a direct pull, partly perhaps by pro- 

 ducing a pressure upon the fluid contained ^^•ithin the cavity of the 

 proboscis. A comparison of figs. 36 and 37 furnishes the best repre- 

 sentation of the mechanics of this process. Wlien the armature is 

 evaginated the wall of the proboscis shows its annular folds ^-ery close 

 together (fig. 36); when retracted, further apart and less numerous. 

 \A^iat causes the retraction of the armature is difficult to decide, but 

 it is perhaps due to the tension of certain long cells (Fib.) lying at the 

 base of the axis. 



The hypodermis of the outer wall of the proboscis is exceedingly 

 thin from the diaphragm to the base of the third row of spicules (Sp. 3) 

 of the armature, and contaias not more than one or two nuclei. On its 

 outer surface is a thicker homogeneous cuticula which does not extend 

 over the armature region. Cuticula and hypodermis together compose 

 a very thin outer wall which is thrown into folds, so that the larva 

 appears to be superficially annulated. As well as I could determine 

 these folds are temporary, and their number changes with movements 

 of the proboscis, though the annulations are always present. There 

 are no circular muscles to produce them. The hypodermis is thickened 

 below the spicules and stilets which compose the armature, and shows 

 one nucleus at the base of each stilet and each spicule; at the base of 

 the stilets {St., figs. 36, 37) the hypodermis becomes continuous with 

 the axial ectodermic cell mass. 



The armature, best studied in life or on individuals treated with 

 caustic potash, shows three rows of spicules and three stilets (figs. 

 33-37). The first row of spicules {Sp. 1) is composed of a circle of 

 six spicules, namely, a pair of dorso-lateral and a pair of dorso-ventral 

 spicules, and a pair of lateral ones considerably larger than the others. 

 The second row {Sp. 2) is made up of a circle of four spicules, a dorso- 

 lateral and a ventro-lateral pair lying beneath the corresponding pairs 

 of the first row; these are the smallest of all the spicules. The spicules 

 of both of these rows are flattened, pointed cuticular plates, with 




748 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



slightly thickened margins. The third row of spicules (Sp. 3) is com- 

 posed of a circle of needle-hke spines, seven in number: one dorsal, 

 one pair of dorso-lateral, one pair of dorso-ventral, and one pair of 

 closely approximated ventral spicules. All these spicules project 

 backward when the armature is evaginated. The three stilets point 

 forward; one of them is ventral {St.v., figs. 33-35), and the others 

 ''fi'^Tso-lateral (St.d.). Each is a slender rod, with the proximal end 

 widfe^Aed, but with a depression on each side of the expansion (there 

 shapecl ^ike a human red blood corpuscle) ; and with the distal end also 

 expanded and bearing on its median surface a series of fine parallel 

 ridges. The stilets surround a delicate canal, at the base of which 

 opens the duct of the gland {Gl.d.). The whole armature is an exqui- 

 site device for the penetration of the tissues of the host, and for moving 

 through them — the stilets penetrating, the spicules by their gripping 

 pidiiVig the larva forward. One does not know which to admire more, 

 %ke perfection of the larva for occasioning torture or the beneficence 

 of the Providence allowing such torment. 



The axis of the proboscis is separated from the outer wall by a space, 

 archico?!, and is composed of a cord of cells extending from the base of 

 the stilets to the diaphragm (figs. 36, 37). That part of this cord 

 nearest the stilets passes over continuously into the hypodermis, and 

 is composed of a mass of cells without perceptible boundaries, contain- 

 ing a number of large nuclei. So far as I can determine these are sim- 

 ply undifferentiated ectodermic cells. The other end of the cord is 

 made up of a numl:)er of long spindle-shaped cells (Fib.), attached at 

 one end to the diaphragm ; these may serve as elastic retractors of the 

 evaginated armature. 



The musculature of the proboscis is composed exclusively of longi- 

 tudinal fil^res (Mus. of figs. 36 and 37), the only faintly shaded struc- 

 tures in these drawings of the proboscis. These muscle cells are too 

 minute for any determination of their finer structure ; one can simply 

 determine their long spindle shapes, the presence of nuclei in them, and 

 the fact that they do not form a continuous layer, but are separated 

 from one another though parallel. Their arrangement is shown in figs. 

 36 and 37. 



All this region anterior to the diaphragm has been called by me the 

 proboscis, because evidently the whole is simply an organ for penetra- 

 tion and locomotion in the host, even though it composes about one- 

 half of the body. There is no entoderm in its constitution (except 

 the duct of the gland body situated behind the diaphragm), and mesen- 

 chvm onlv in the form of the musculature; all the remainder is ectoder- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 749 



mic. It has no intestine, and no nervous system, unless, indeed, the 

 large cells of the axis may be considered embryonic nerve cells, or some 

 of the cells on the anterior surface of the diaphragm. It is not com- 

 parable with a head, nor is it to be regarded as a segment of equal 

 morphological value with the head-trunk. The proof is yet wanting, 

 but it will probably be found that this proboscis is the essential larval 

 organ, disappearing more or less completely before the adult condition, 

 and that the head-trunk is the persisting region. 



The posterior head-trunk (fig. 36) is bent upon the proboscis, as the 

 larva lies within the egg-membranes, but by the action of the longi- 

 tudinal muscles the whole body may be straightened. Its hypodermis 

 and cuticula is of the same structure as that of the posterior portion 

 of the proboscis, except for the presence of two pairs of cuticular 

 hooks {H.), placed right and left on each side of the posterior end, 

 and for the presence of a thickening of the hypodermis. This thicken- 

 ing {Nv.) lies ventral just behind the diaphragm, and shows a double 

 row of large nuclei, one row to the right and the other to the left of the 

 median line, and each row with four to five nuclei. This thickening 

 is to be regarded as the nervous system of the larva. It is an ectoder- 

 mal thickening of definite form in every larva; and its ventral position 

 corresponds with the position of the nerve cord of the adult. There 

 are no other parts of the larva which can be considered nervous, unless 

 the large hypodermal cells composing the axis of the proboscis have 

 that function — against which assumption a number of objections 

 might be urged. This thickening is then a double row of neuroblasts, 

 recognizable only on carefully stained preparations; nerve fibres cannot 

 be determined. 



The longitudinal muscle-cells {Mus.) lie just beneath the hypodermis, 

 and terminate anteriorly against the diaphragm. They have the same 

 appearance as those of the proboscis, but are more difficult to perceive, 

 particularly those of the dorsal side. Here also there is no trace of 

 circular muscles. 



In the archicffil, at the anterior end of the head-trunk, is placed a 

 large gland {Gl.), which, as we have seen, arose as an abstriction from 

 the entodermal canal. By a long duct (fig. 36, Gl.d.) it is connected 

 with the exterior at the base of the stilets {St.) of the proboscis. This 

 gland lies free within the archicoel, and contains about eight large 

 nuclei; cell boundaries are bareh^ distinguishable, and the cytoplasm 

 is dense and stains uniformly. The long, convoluted duct can usually 

 be found onh' in life, when it appears as a perfectly clear, convoluted 

 line. On a few preparations, however, its portion within the gland 




750 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



body was deeply stained by hsematoxyliiie. It arises near the pos- 

 terior end of the gland body, extends through the length of the latter, 

 then piercing the diaphragm extends forward through the archicoel 

 of the proboscis, i.e., on the surface of the axial stalk. Whether this 

 extremely delicate canal is intercellular or intracellular in the gland 

 body, I could not ascertain; if it were intercellular it would represent 

 a portion of the gastrocoelic cavity. As to the function of this gland, 

 the position of its external aperture at the base of the stilets would 

 point to its being a poison gland. There is no good reason for judging 

 it to be an excretory organ; and indeed we shall see that what are 

 probably excretory masses become stored up within the cavity of the 

 intestine. 



The intestine {In., fig. 36) of the larva is a closed tube, terminating 

 blindly at its anterior end, and at its posterior connecting with the 

 cuticula of the body wall without external opening; this latter point 

 corresponds with the blastopore {Bl.). This posterior end of the in- 

 testine appears as a narrow, solid stalk, with two or four nuclei apposed 

 to its surface. The wall of the remainder of the intestine is very thin, 

 except at the opposite ends where it is thickened and embraces several 

 large nuclei. Within the intestinal lumen are always present usually 

 two, sometimes more, large globules {Glo.) of a pale brownish color 

 and viscid consistency. These appear first when the larva is not quite 

 mature as a thinner fluid, but subsequently accumulate as homo- 

 geneous, rounded globules. These cannot represent food substance, 

 for the blastopore is closed and the intestine has no connection with 

 the exterior. It is then probable they represent products of metabolic 

 waste, in which case the intestine of the larva would serve as an excre- 

 tory reservoir. 



Within the archicoel, just at the posterior end of the head-trunk, is a 

 mass of a few small cells {Mus.), evidently mesenchym cells that have 

 not become specialized; they are embryonic, and may be germ cells. 



Finally, the body-cavity of the larva is an archicoel, without floating 

 cells and apparently without connective tissue. There are no meso- 

 dermal epithelia (mesothelia) ; and the only transverse septum of 

 the body, the diaphragm, is ectodcrmic. 



3. Previous Work. 



I have not seen the papers of Grube (1849) and Meissner (1856), nor 

 yet the last paper on the early development, one in Russian by Tretia- 

 kow (1901). 



Leidy (1850, 1870) gives a very superficial account, with no figures, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 751 



of the formation of the larva; he noted the proboscis invagination, 

 and the spicules (''filaments") of the armature. 



Villot (1874) was the first to give an extended account of the develop- 

 ment of the larva. He described the formation of the egg-string 

 ("nid amentum"), and the appearance of the egg-envelopes; and 

 describes the polar bodies as being very variable in number, form and 

 volume. He found the segmentation to be total and equal and leads 

 to a "germe" formed of two concentric spheres (the process of which 

 was not determined), ectoderm and entoderm respectively. He noted 

 the ectodermal invagination at the anterior end of the embryo and in- 

 terpreted it to be the beginning of the "head" (equivalent to my term 

 "proboscis"). His fig. 49 is the most detailed sketch yet given of the 

 structure of the larva. The whole armature of the proboscis is de- 

 scribed very accurately. But he describes an anterior mouth com- 

 municating by an oesophagus with a posterior intestine, and the latter 

 by an open anus with the exterior — failing to see the diaphragm, and 

 mistaking for an oesophagus the solid axial cord of the proboscis. He 

 saw correctly the gland and its duct, but interpreted it as an excretory 

 organ. The musculature is noted, and the body-cavity described as 

 filled with cells. His second paper (1891) is mainly a criticism of the 

 work of Camerano. 



Camerano (1889) studied the development not quite to the point 

 of the larval stage, figures the chromosomes and certain details in the 

 formation of the polar bodies, which he finds to be two in number. 

 The earliest penetration of the spermatozoon he did not see, but 

 describes a succession of stages of the two pronuclei, and figiu-es them 

 as of unequal size. The early cleavage he finds to be quite variable in 

 different eggs, though holoblastic. In regard to the process of gastru- 

 lation his results are entirely different from mine. He finds the embryo 

 at the end of the cleavage to be a flattened plate, not a sphere, a disk 

 composed of two layers of cells— a sterroblastula. This plate becomes 

 quadrangular instead of circular in outline ; then an invagination takes 

 place at one end of the plate, which he interprets as a prostoma, and 

 concludes the sterroblastula to have become a coelogastrula, I can 

 only interpret Camerano's results as follows: First, that the strong 

 fixatives employed produced flattening of the embryos, which I have 

 frequently observed after fixation with acetic acid or strong alcohol; 

 second, that he did not see the gastrula invagination at all (which 

 would take place at the stage of his figs. 43 to 45), and mistook the 

 ectodermal proboscidial invagination for the gastrula cavity. 



Villot was in error in describing the true larva as the "etat embry- 




752 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct,, 



onnaire" or "premiere forme larvaire/' and the immature worm found 

 as a parasite in insects the "etat larvaire proprement dit" or "deux- 

 ieme forme larvaire.'' Camerano and Vejdovsky (1894) are quite 

 right in insisting, in opposition to Villot and von Linstow, that the 

 organism as it leaves the egg-membranes is the larva, and that thefe 

 is no second larval stage. That stage is the larva which is equipped 

 with a temporary larval organ, the proboscis ; all later stages, as far as 

 they are known, are but progressions toward the adult condition. 



4. Conclusions. 



The opinion I had previously expressed (1903) from a study of the 

 adult anatomy of Paragordius was as follows: "With the Nematoda 

 the Gordiacea have in common only one important structure, the 

 tubular genitalia and their opening into the cloaca. With the Annelida 

 they agree in the structure and innervation of the musculature, and 

 in having dorso-ventral mesenteries which di\dde body-cavities 

 bounded by cell-layers. But there is good reason for doubting the 

 homologies of these mesenteries and body-cavities in these two groups 

 of animals. They differ from the Annelida in showing no trace at all 

 of true metamerism (either in the nervous system, the body-cavities, 

 the genitalia or the body wall) ; in the absence of a cerebral ganglion, 

 of a vascular system, of setal sacks or extremities ; and very markedly 

 in the structure of the genitalia. In ^-iew of these facts the Gordiacea 

 cannot be regarded as even highly degenerate Annelida, as Vejdo\'sky 

 has done, nor yet as modified Nematoda, the view of most of the 

 writers, but must rather be considered a group of isolated position, 

 as Grenadier, von Siebold and Villot have regarded them." 



The present study of the early development confirms this \aew, but 

 shows that there is considerable correspondence of the cleavage and 

 gastrulation processes wdth those of the Nematoda. The middle germ- 

 layer is not a connected mesoderm, but a mesenchym of disconnected 

 cells, arising from the mesentoderm close to the blastopore. 



The larva has two marked peculiarities. First, by a transverse 

 septum, the diaphragm, the body is partitioned into an anterior 

 proboscis and a posterior head-trunk. This proboscis is entirely ecto- 

 dermal except for mesenchymatous muscles, and lacks any nervous 

 system, excretory system, and any portion of an intestine. Though 

 it composes half the body, it is probably a purely larval organ that 

 takes no part in the adult structure : the diaphragm marks the future 

 boundary of the adult head, and the proboscis is precephahc. A sup- 

 port for this view, apart from good anatomical considerations, is to 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 755 



be found in the work of Vejdovsky (1894), particularly his fig. 17; this 

 represents an outline of the head of an immature individual, showing 

 at the tip of the definitive head the still persisting proboscis with a 

 transverse septum. The future head and trunk proper then lie behind 

 the proboscis of the larva, and this head-trunk becomes the complete 

 body of the adult; this we can say certainly, even though the early 

 post-larval development is entirely unknown. 



This head-trunk has a wall like the proboscis, a hypodermis with 

 cuticula, and longitudinal mesenchymatous muscle fibres. There is 

 no coelom, no peritoneum or mesenteries. The nervous system is 

 simply a ventral thickening of the hypodermis. In the head-trunk 

 is found the second striking peculiarity of the Paragordius larva — a 

 gland connecting by a long duct with the anterior end of the proboscis. 

 This gland is entodermal, arising as an abstriction from the anterior 

 end of the entodermal tube. In point of origin it resembles an entero- 

 coel, a mesoderm sack, and its early lumen is a portion of the gastroccel. 

 But there the resemblance ceases, for it becomes a gland, evidently 

 secretory and not excretory, which later develops a duct to the exterior. 

 Its origin is unpaired. The only forms which show a similar unpaired 

 enteroccfil arising from the anterior end of the entoderm tube are the 

 Holothurians, and there an outgrowth of a portion (hydrocoel) of the 

 hydro-enterocoel connects it, in the form of the stone canal, with the 

 exterior. But it would be a rash comparison, in no Avay justified, 

 between a Gordiacean and a Holothurian. This gland probably 

 continues to a late stage of the development under the form of the 

 "braune Driise" of Gordius, described by Vejdovsky, but is not 

 homologous with the problematical ''supraintestinal organ" that I 

 found in the adult of Paragordius. 



When we consider this ectodermal proboscis, the cctodermic dia- 

 phragm and the enterocoelic gland; the absence of any coelomic 

 cavities, ciliary wreaths and excretory organs; the lack of a mouth 

 and the mesenchymatous musculature, we must conclude this union of 

 characters to make the Gordiacean larva unique, not closely comparable 

 with any other larva. 



If my interpretation of the larva is correct, then the early post-larval 

 development, which has yet to be studied, should show the mouth 

 arising in the plane of the diaphragm, probably as an ectodermic 

 stomodseum; the dorsal commissure of the brain developing in the 

 same region; and the reproductive organs arising from the small 

 mass of mesenchym cells at the posterior end. But the point of most 

 importance that remains to be investigated is the first origin of that 




754 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



tissue so peculiar to the Gordiacea, the ''parenchym," and its arrange- 

 ment into layers. Not until that is done can the structure of the adult 

 be adequately interpreted. 



Literature List. 



Camerano, L. 1889. I primi momenti della evoluzione clei Gordii. Mem. 



Real. Accad. Sci. Torino, XL. 

 Idem. 1892. Ricerche intorno al parasitismo ed alio sviluppo del Gordius 



pustulosus. Atti Accad. Sci. Torino. 

 Grube. 1849. IJeber einige Anguillulen und die Entwickelung von Gordius 



aquaticus. Arch. Naturg., 29. 

 Hautmann, M. 1902. Studien am thierischen Ei. 1 Ovarialei und Eireifung 



von Asterias glacialis. Zool. Jahrb., 15. 

 Leidy, J. 1850. Notes on the Development of the Gordius aquaticus. Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Idem. 1870. The Gordius or Hairworm. Aiuer. Entoni. and Bot., 2. 

 LiNSTOW, O. V. 1890. Ueber die Entwickelungsgeschichte und die Anatomic 



von Gordius tolosanus. Arch. mikr. Anat., 3-4. 

 Idem. 1891. Weitere Beobachtungen an Gordius tolosanus und ]NIermis. 



Ibid., 37. 

 Meissner. 1856. Beitrage zur Anatomie und Phj'siologie der Gordiaceen. 



Zeit. ^viss. Zool., 3. 

 Montgomery, T. H., Jr. 1898. Comparative Cj'tological Studies with Especial 



Regard to the Morphology of the Nucleolus. Joiirn. Morph., 15. 

 Idem. 1903. The Adult Organization of Paragordius varius (Leidy). Zool. 



Jahrb., 18. 

 Tretiakow, D. 1901. Trav. Soc. Imp. Natural. St. Petersbourg, 32. 

 Vejdovsky, F. 1894. Organogenie der Gordiiden. Zeit. tviss. Zool., 57. 

 ViLLOT, A. 1874. Monographie des Dragonweaux. Arch. Zool. Exper., 3. 

 Idem. 1891. L'Evolution des Gordiens. Ann. Sci. Nat., Zool. 



Explanation of Plates XLIX and L. 



The following abbreviations have been emploj^ed in the figures : 



BL, blastopore. 



Cut., cuticula. 



Di., diaphragm. 



Fib., fibre cells. 



Gl, gland. 



Gl.d., gland duct. 



Glo., globules within intestine. 



H., cuticular hooks. 



Ily., hypodermis. 



In., intestine. 



Mes., mesenchjmi cells. 



Mus., musculature. 



Nv., nervous thickening of hypodermis. 



Sp. 1-Sp. 3, spicules of rows 1-3. 



St.d., dorsal stilets. 



St. v., ventral stilet. 



All the figures, except 33-35, are camera lucida drawings at a magnification 

 of 1312 diameters. 



Plate XLIX, Fig. 1. — Ovocyte from lateral diverticulum of ovary, at end of the 



growth period; the yolk globules shaded. 

 Figs. 2-5. — Nuclei in successive prophases preceding the formation of the 



first polar body. 

 Fig. 6. — Portion of an egg near the proximal end of the cloaca, showing the 



first polar spindle and the entering spermatozoon. 

 Fig. 7. — Pole view of the first polar spindle. 

 Fig. S. — Outline of the whole egg, from a posterior end of the cloaca, showing 



the two egg-membranes, first polar spindle and spermatozoon. 

 Fig. 9. — Portion of the periphery of an egg, showing first polar body formed. 

 Fig. 10. — Outline of egg, showing second polar spindle, sperm nucleus and, 



separated from the surface of the egg, the two membranes. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 755 



Fig. 11. — Pole view of second polar spindle. 



Fig. 12. — Outline of egg, sperm nucleus and expulsion of second polar body. 



Figs. 13, 14. — -Outline of eggs, second polar body on surface, egg nucleus at 

 right, sperm nucleus at left in both figures. 



Fig. 15. — Prophase of first cleavage, seven chromosomes in each nucleus; 

 sperm nucleus at left, egg nucleus at right ; yolk globules shaded. 



Fig. IG. — First cleavage spindle and second polar body. 



Figs. 17-19.— 2-cell, 4-cell and S-cell stages. 



Fig 20. — Optical section of a blastula. 



Fig. 21. — 16-cell stage. 



Figs. 22-24. — Successive gastrula stages, optical median section.-;. 



Figs. 25-27. — Optical median sections of later gastrulaj, showing the early 

 formation of mesenchym cells (shaded). 



Fig. 28. — Optical median section at stage of ectodermal thickening; mesen- 

 chym shaded. 



Fig. 29.— Optical median section at stage of beginning ectodermal invagina- 

 tion; mesenchym shaded. 



Figs. 30-32. — Similar views of successive later stages. 



Figs. 33-35.— Freehand drawings to show the armature of the proboscis in 

 extended position. 33, slightly oblique ventral view; 34, view from 

 the right side ; 35, slightly oblique dorsal view. 

 Plate L, Fig. 36. — Freehand drawing, on a much larger scale than on the preced- 

 ing plate, of a larva from the right side, with the proboscis fully 

 extended. 



Fig. 37. — ^Similar drawing of the proboscis in invaginated condition. 




756 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



November 1. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The deaths of Samuel W. Woodhousc, M.D., October 23, Ralph F. 

 Cullinan, October 30, and A. F. Mueller, M.D., October 20, members, 

 were announced. 



Mr. Witmer Stone made a communication on the birds of the 

 Galapagos Islands. (No abstract.) 



November 15. 

 The President. Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown spoke of the between-tide plants of the 

 Delaware river. (No abstract.) 



Nominations of Officers, Councillors and members of the Committee 

 on Accounts were made, to be balloted for at the annual meeting. 



The following was accepted for pubhcation: 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 757 



NEW, EARE OE LITTLE KNOWN SCOMBROIDS. No. 1. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The present paper is one of a series now in preparation, which will 

 be intended to give accounts of the more interesting Scombroids con- 

 tained in the collection of the The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. While a few of the species appear to be new, others are 

 rare, and some are of value in establishing identifications of older 

 naturalists. I have framed complete descriptions of some species 

 which have at all times needed elucidation, while a number of others 

 are supplemented with notes. Changes in nomenclature which appear 

 necessary are given. In such cases some are due entirely to a rigid 

 adherence to the original orthography. In the introduction of several 

 new subgenera it may be remembered that where transitional forms 

 occur, like those in the older conception of Caranx, the better defined 

 groups, possibly of different lines of descent, had, at least best be 

 indicated even if only provisionally. 



SCOMBRID^. 

 SCOMBRIN.^. 



Subgenus SCOMBER Linna>us. 

 Scomber scombrus Linnaeus. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 297. In Oceauo Atlantico. Bonaparte. Cat. 



Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. 73. 



Five examples from Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (No. 386.). Dr. T. B. 

 Wilson. 



Subgenu.s PNEUMATOPHORUS Jordan and Gilbert. 

 Scomber kanagurta Ruppell. 



Atl. Reis. Nordl. Af., Fisch., 1828, p. 93. Gonil'uda. [Red Sea.] Fowler, 



Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., XII (2), 1904, p. 506, PI. 12, upper figure. 



Head 3yV; depth 4; D. VIII-I, 11, 5; A. I, 11, 5; P. i, 20; V. i, 5; 

 scales about 148 in lateral series to base of caudal; about 13 scales 

 in a transverse series between origin of second dorsal and lateral line; 

 about 24? scales between lateral line and origin of anal; width of head 

 2 in its length; depth of head H; snout 3^; eye 3^; maxillary 2h; 

 mandible If; interorbital space 3|; depressed dorsal If; base of 

 second dorsal 2j\; base of anal 2yV; pectoral 2 (damaged); ventral 

 2-^; least depth of caudal peduncle 8|. 




758 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.. 



Body elongate, rather deep, compressed, and greatest depth near 

 middle of its length. Caudal peduncle small, its width f its depth. 



Head triangular, deep, and compressed, and profiles evenly though 

 slightly convex above and below. Snout long, conic, sides becoming 

 compressed, and top of head flattened anteriorh-. Eye high, nearly 

 touching upper profile, and a little anterior. ]\louth moderate, its 

 gape reaching about half way in space between tip of snout and front 

 rim of pupil. Preorbital long, of about even width, and groove 

 extending about opposite middle of eye. Maxillary when exposed 

 reaching front rim of orbit, but when mouth is closed reaching front 

 rim of pupil, and entirely concealed posteriorly by preorbital. Teeth 

 small, conic, rather few, and uniserial in jaws. Tongue small, anterior, 

 elongate, tip rounded and free. No teeth on roof of mouth. Nostrils 

 lateral, and space between each moderate. Anterior circular, about 

 midway between tip of snout and front of eye. Posterior a short 

 vertical slit. Interorbital space broad, flattened, or onl}^ slightly 

 concave in middle. Top of head, posterior to eyes, convex. 



Gill-opening large, its posterior margin forming a vertical undulation 

 leaving a large flap at lower corner, and extending forward till nearly 

 opposite posterior nostril. Shoulder girdle furnished with two broad 

 fleshy processes with a rather broad space between. Isthmus long and 

 thin, but without a sharp edge. Rakers 13 + 23, long, though a little 

 shorter than longest filaments, or about equal to space between tip 

 of snout and posterior nostril. Rakers compressed, rather attenuate, 

 and furnished with a series of fine pointed and rather flexible bristles 

 on each inner edge. Filaments longest on middle of ceratobranchial. 

 Pseud obranchise about equal to space between tip of snout and anterior 

 nostril. Air-bladder rather large. 



Scales small, all narrowly imbricated, those about pectoral and just 

 behind gill-opening enlarged. Scales below second dorsal small. 

 Cheeks and top of head scaly, rest of head naked. Lateral line con- 

 ciurent with back till after first dorsal, then inclined straight to base 

 of caudal. A short keel at base of each caudal lobe laterally. Pectoral 

 without flap, but with a ridge along scales above to its tip. Soft dorsal 

 and anal covered with minute scales, other fins except pectoral, naked. 

 Adipose eyelid large, leaving only middle third of eye exposed. 



Dorsal spines slender, pungent, first two close together, third longest, 

 and others graduated to last which is short. Depressable in a groove 

 which extends well beyond its tip when fin is depressed, and origin 

 falling a little nearer base of soft dorsal than tip of snout, or about over 

 first f of pectoral. Second dorsal small, inserted nearer origin of pec- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 759 



toral than base of caudal, and anterior rays elevated. Spine weak. 

 Finlets of both dorsal and anal similar, at equal distances, and last 

 longest. Anal similar to soft dorsal, inserted about midway between 

 origin of pectoral and base of caudal, or a little behind origin of 

 soft dorsal. Pectoral high, small, and reaching beyond middle of 

 base of spinous dorsal. Ventral low, inserted a trifle behind(?) origin 

 of pectoral. Caudal small, deeply emarginate. 



Color when fresh in arrack, blue-black above, with many round deep 

 or darker spots than body-color, and area above well separated from 

 lower surface of bodj-^ by a sharp line of demarcation which reaches 

 lateral line below first -finlets. Sides of head, trunk, and caudal pedun- 

 cle, together with all of lower surface of bod}^, silvery- white. Dorsal, 

 caudal and pectoral grayish, latter especially on its outer and inside 

 basally blackish. Ventral and anal whitish. Inside of gill-opening 

 grayish. Peritoneum silvery. 



Length 8^ inches. 



Thirty-one examples, but all of the others young. Padang, Sumatra. 

 Coll. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. M. Hiller. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila. and Stanford University. In the example described above 

 I found a small Lciognathus ly\ inches in length. It was taken from 

 the gullet. 



I provisionally adopt the name Scomber kanagurta, though derived 

 from Russell's Indian fish^ and based on that of the Red Sea by Riippell, 

 who subsequently described S. chrysozonus^ and S. microlepidotus^ 

 from the same place. Kner recorded the latter from the Nicobars 

 and Hong Kong,* and Bleeker from Pinang.^ Dr. Steindachner con- 

 siders both identical wdth S. loo,^ and Day^ united all three with 

 S. kanagurta, S. moluccensis,^ and S. reani,^ though Dr. Klunzinger 

 separated S. microlepidotus, retaining S. kanagurta and S. chrysozonus 

 as distinct. 



Dr. i\Ieek records microlepidotus from Aden.^° One of his examples 

 now in the Museum of Stanford University I have examined. It has 

 exceedingly long gill-rakers, the longest almost equal to snout and one- 



^ Kanagurta Russell, Fishes of Coromandel, II, 1803, p. 28, PI. 136. 



^ Neue Wirbelthiere, Fisch., 1835, p. 37, PI. 11, fig. 1. Massaua. [Red Sea.] 



= L. c, p. 38, PL 11, fig. 2. Massaua. 



* Reis. Freg. Norara, ZooL, I, 1865, p. 143. 



5 Versl. Kon. Ak. Wet., XII, 1861, p. 74. [Record.] 



" Sifz. Ak. Wiss. TFten, LVII, 1868, p 987. Rothen Meere. 



' Fishes of India. II, 1876, p. 250. L. c. in Supplement, 1888, p. 790. 



* Bleeker, Act. Soc. Sci. Ind. Neerl. (Besch. Yisch. Amboina), I, 1856, p. 40. 

 Amboina, in mari. (M. Dnijmaer Van Twist.) 



" Day, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1870, p 441. 



10 Field Mus. Pub., 22, ZooL, Ser. I, No. 8, Nov., 1897, p. 172. [Record.] 




760 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



third of orbit. In number about 30 on lower part of first arch. Shoul- 

 der girdle inside gill-opening nearly smooth and with obsolete pro- 

 cesses. Later Dr. Meek kindly examined the other examples, which 

 are at present in the Field Columbian Museum, and informs me that 

 the gill-rakers are long, and numerous, longest reaching from tip of 

 snout to middle of pupil, 2^ to 2f in head. 



SARDIN.E. 



Auxis bisus (Rafinesque). 



Scomber bisus Rafinesque," Carat. Alcun. Nuov. Gen. Spec. Animal. Piant. 



Sicilia, 1810, p. 45, PI. 2, fig;. 1. Palermo. 

 Aitxis bisus Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 184G, p. 74. 



Head (measured from tip of upper jaw'^) 4; depth about 4|; D. 

 XI-iv, 7, 8 ; A. IV, 9, 7 ; P. i, 20 ; V. i, 5 ; width of head 1| in its length ; 

 depth of head at posterior margin of preopercle 1|; snout 4^; orbit 5^; 

 interorbital space 4; base of rayed dorsal, without finlets, 3^%; base 

 of anal, without finlets, 5; mandible 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 3 in snout. This example agrees with Goode's figure, except that the 

 origin of the spinous dorsal would fall nearer the tip of the depressed 

 pectoral than its base. Length 19 inches. Italy. Bonaparte Coll. 

 ( V"). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



On comparison with a single example from Newport (Rhode Island) 

 collected by Samuel Powel, and agreeing with Goode's figure, ^^ this 

 difference is still carried out. However, the Newport example is only 

 about 12^ inches long, and thus it may be accounted for by age. 

 Goode's figure does not show the keel above the base of the pectoral 

 fin and parallel w'ith the upper margin of the same fin. It is more 

 distinct and extends further posteriorly in my Italian example. 



I retain Rafinesque's name provisionally until more material is 

 compared, as it is possible that the East Indian form^'* may be different. 



PELAMYS Walbaum. 



Ivlein, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise., Ill, 1792, p. 584. (Type here 



affixed is Scornber pelamis Linnteus.) 

 Gijvmosarda Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 125 (unicolor). 



Pelamys alleterata (Rafinesque). 



Scomber alleteratus Rafinesque, Carat. Alcun. Nuov. Gen. Spec. Animal. 



Piant. Sicilia, 1810, p. 40. Palermo. 

 Scomber aletteratus Rafinesque, I. c, PI. 2, fig. 3. 



" I do not know whether this name is later than Scomber rochet Risso, or not. 

 Rafinesque's preface is dated April 1, 1810 



1' Also measured in same manner for the other comparisons. 



^^ Fishery Indust. U.S. (Nat. Hist. Aquat. Animal, I), 1884, PL 92, upper 

 figure. 



^* Scomber thazard Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IT, 1800, p. 599. L. c, III, 



1800, p. 9. Vers le septieme degr^ de latitude australe, aupres des rivages de la 

 NouvelU'-Guinee. 




190-1.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 761 



Two examples from the island of St. Thomas, West Indies. The)' 



agree, and "both differ from the following example in the smaller 



head, which is at least 3f in its own length and that of the trunk. 



Pelamys afl6ne (Cantor). 



Thf/nnus affims Cantor, Journ. Ass. Soc. Bengal (Cat. Malay. Fish-), XVIII, 



1850, p. 106. Sea of Pinang. Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus.. II, 1860, 



p. 363. (Type.) 



I provisionally retain this as a distinct form from that of the Atlantic. 



Cantor's fish may be identical, though East Indian and Micronesian 



examples need comparison. The single example from Honolulu, now 



before me, has a larger head than the West Indian examples, being 



contained less than 3^ or about 3^ in the length of head and trunk. 



Dr. Giinther's figure^^ of an example from the Seychelles shows the 



pectoral high in position, its origin level with the upper margin of the 



eye, a character which I have not observed as yet in any examples of 



Pelamys. 



Germo germon (Lac^pfede). 



ScombeT germon Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., II, 1800, p. .598. No locality. 

 Scomber germo Lacepede, /. c, IV, 1803, p. 1. Le grand Ocean austral, 



imprpprement appele mer Pacifique, vers le vingt-septieme degre de 



latitude nieridionale et le cent troisieme de longitude. [Eastern Indian 



Ocean.] 

 Germo germon Fowler, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., XII (2), 1904, p. 506, 



PI. 8, lower figure. 



Head 3^; depth 4; D. XIII-iii, 11, 9; A. iii, 11, 8; P. i, 31; V. i, 5; 

 about 158 scales in a lateral series to base of keel on caudal peduncle; 

 width of head H in its length; depth of head 1|; snout 3^; eye 5f ; 

 maxillary 2h; mandible 2\; interorbital space 2>\; first dorsal spine 2\; 

 height of soft dorsal, measured from middle of its base, 2f ; height of 

 anal 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle about lOf ; width of caudal 

 peduncle, measured across keels at their widest part, 4^; ventral 2h; 

 pectoral 3y in body; space between tip of caudal lobes when expanded, 



Body elongate, broad, fusiform, thick, and greatest depth about 

 middle of its length. Caudal peduncle broad, depressed, and with a 

 broad cutaneous keel on each side. 



Head deep, conic, and sides compressed. Snout conic, sides hardly 

 compressed. Eye anterior, high, with narrow adipose eyelids, and its 

 posterior margin midway in length of head. Mouth oblique, tip c£ 

 mandible even with snout, and maxillary reaching posteriorly till 

 opposite first third of eye. Maxillary with its upper portion slipping 

 under preorbital, its distal expanded extremity -f of orbit, and with a 



15 Journ. Mus. Godef. (Fische der Sudsee), V, 1876, PI. 95. 

 49 




762 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



short oblique groove from its lower angle. Teeth small, conic, sharp 

 and uniserial in jaws. Vomer with a patch of minute teeth. Palatines 

 with similar elongate and narrow patches. Tongue free, elongate, 

 thick, and broadly rounded in front. Anterior nostril nearer front 

 rim of pupil than tip of snout. Posterior a vertical slit a little less 

 than half of orbit and placed in last third of space between its front 

 rim and anterior nostril. Interorbital space and entire top of head 

 convex. 



Gill-opening deep, broad, and extending forward till opposite space 

 between nostrils. Rakers 5+16, compressed, pointed, and longest f 

 of orbit. Filaments numerous, long, and longest a trifle longer than 

 eye. Pseudobranchise about f of eye. Isthmus long, slender, and 

 with rounded edge. 



Scales minute, and cycloid, those forming small corselet greatly en- 

 larged anteriorly. Soft dorsal and anal, together with base and middle 

 of caudal, covered with minute elongate scales. Lateral line superior 

 and convex at first, then extending down on middle of side of caudal 

 peduncle to keel. Base of caudal with a low keel above and below. 

 A narrow scaly keel above upper pectoral ray running back for about f 

 length of fin. Scales on outside basal portions of ventrals enlarged. 

 Head naked, and cheek with long narrow horizontal l)undles of muscular 

 fibres. 



Spinous dorsal depressable in a groove, anterior spine longest, 

 enlarged, close to second, and others from third all shorter and further 

 apart. Insertion of spinous dorsal nearly midway between front 

 margin of eye and origin of soft dorsal, which falls well in front of that 

 of anal, or midway between front rim of orbit and base of caudal. 

 Finlets similar, evenly distributed, and with a long point behind. 

 Caudal broad, lunate, strong, and lobes narrow. Pectoral long, and 

 reaching origin of anal. Ventral small, strong, inserted a little behind 

 origin of pectoral and fitting in a depression on belly. 



Color when fresh in arrack faded probal^ly. Back and upper surface 

 apparently faded steel-gray. Side grayish with round whitish spots 

 on side of abdomen. Lower surface silvery- white. Dorsal and caudal 

 dusky-brown. Upper finlets grayish, lower whitish with a gray blotch. 

 Anal grayish. Pectoral blackish-gray, ^'entrals white with gray 

 membranes. Keel on caudal peduncle blackish. Peritoneum pale. 



Length 17^ inches. 



One example from Padang, Sumatra. Coll. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and 

 Dr. H. M. HiUer. 



This form has never been compared with the Atlantic fish, in view of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 763 



which it would seem best to retain Lacepede's name for the Indian 

 form. Bennet records a fish from Polynesia, which may probably be 

 identical.^® 



Sarda sarda (Bloch). 



Scomber sarda Bloch, Naturg. Ausl. Fisch., VII (X), 1793, p. 44, PL 334. 



Im mittlandischen, als audi im atlandischen Meere. 

 Pelamys sarda Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. 74. 



Head about 4; snout 3|- in head; eye 7; maxillary 2; interorbital 

 space 4yV- Length about 18f inches. Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (4). 

 Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



This single dried example is in poor condition. It agrees with 

 Goode's figure^^ so far as one is able to judge from its preservation. 



Germo alatunga (Gmelin). 



Scomber alatunga Gmelin, Sj'st. Nat. Linn., I, 1788, p. 1,330. Periodice 



gregarius in mari mediterraneo, migrans, edulis. 

 Thynnus alalonga Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. 74. 



Head^* 3^; depth about 4f ; D. XV-iii, 11,9; A. iii, 11?, 7; P. ii, 

 32; V. I, 5; width of head If in its length^*; depth of head, at posterior 

 margin of eye-socket, about 2 ; snout 31; eye-socket 4J; maxillary 2f : 

 interorbital space, about middle of eye-socket, 4; mandible 2^; great- 

 est width of caudal peduncle 7|-; pectoral 3^ in space between tip of 

 snout and base of caudal. Origin of spinous dorsal inserted posterior to 

 origin of pectoral a distance about equal to h length of snout. 

 Origin of the anal would fall about opposite base of last dorsal 

 ray. First two dorsal finlets small, especially the first which is like 

 that of Germo germon}^ Ridge along upper edge of pectoral distinct 

 nearly to tip of fin. Color obsolete though pale blotches on side of 

 abdomen seem to be separated by oblique lines. Length 27 inches. 

 Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (|^). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



Goode's figure^'' is rather poor. It shows the origin of the spinous dor- 

 sal opposite that of the pectoral, and the pectoral fin reaching opposite 

 the first dorsal finlet, which is also not especially smaller than the 



'* Other references are probably: 



Thynnus pacificus Cuvier, Hist. Xaf. Poiss., VIII, 1831, p. 96. (Based on 

 Commerson.) 



Thynnus argentivittatus Cuvier, I. c, p. 97. La mer des Indies. (M. Dussu- 

 mier.) (Part.) 



Scomber germo Bennett, Nar. Whaling Voyage, II, 1840, p. 278. Coasts of the 

 Polynesian Islands. 



" Fishery hidust. U. S. (Nat. Hist. Aquat. Animal, I), 1884, PI. 92, lower 

 figure. 



'* The head is here measured, for all comparisons of this species, from tip of 

 snout. 



'^Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., XII (2), 1904, PL 8, lower figure. 



^° Fishery Indust. U. S. (Nat. Hist. Aquat. Animal, I), 1884, PL 95A. 




764 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV., 



others. The scales above the base of the pectoral are much larger, 

 and those directly above in the corselet are on the contrary indicated 

 as smaller. 



I adopt Gmelin's original spelling as there is no evidence that it is 

 an imintentional error, though of course incorrect. 



Subgenus SCOMBEROMORUS Lac^pfede. 



Gill-rakers 8 to 12 on first arch below angle. Dorsal spines XVII or 

 XVIII. Teeth 30 to 40 in each jaw. Lateral line somewhat wavy 

 and descending obliquely. 

 Soomberomorus argyreus sp. nov. Plate LI, lower figure. 



Head 4; depth 4|; D. XVII-iii, 13, 8; A. v, 13,8; P.i,20; V. i, 5; 

 width of head 2f in its length; depth of head If; snout 3; orbit 4^; 

 maxillary If; mandible If; interorbital space 3f ; fourth dorsal spine 

 2|; third simple dorsal ray 2^; height of anal fin (damaged) 2^; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 4|. 



Body apparently compressed, rather deep, profiles similar, and great- 

 est depth between origins of soft dorsal and anal. From this point 

 back tail well compressed, especially small caudal peduncle. Latter 

 with depth about | of its length, measured to end of last vertebra. 



Head a little small, compressed apparently, and triangular anteriorly 

 in profile. Snout sharply conic, equal to about 1^ eye-diameters. In 

 front this is formed by broad maxillaries which project well forward 

 to form pointed tip of snout. Eye circular, a little high, and a little 

 anterior. Mouth large and mandible even with tip of snout in front. 

 Maxillary extending posteriorly till opposite posterior rim of orbit, slip- 

 ping below orbital rim for good portion of its length, and width of 

 distal extremity f of diameter of pupil. Teeth compressed, 2qEi9 ii^ 

 jaws. Tongue rather broad, obtuse, thick, small, and a little free in 

 front. Patches of very minute teeth on vomer, palatines, and ptery- 

 goids. Tongue almost perfectly smooth, but surfaces of branchial 

 bones in pharynx finely asperous. Nostrils distinct, well separated. 

 Anterior circular, and a little less than diameter of pupil from front of 

 eye. Posterior a vertical slit close in front of eye, also a little less in 

 length than half of pupil. Interorbital space broad, and elevated 

 convexly a little. Margin of opercle rounded posteriorly, hardly form- 

 ing a blunt angle. 



Gill-opening extending far forward till opposite anterior nostril. 

 Rakers small, i, 3-hl2, longest | length of longest filament, rather far 

 apart and not sharp. Longest filaments about i of orbit. Pseudo- 

 branchiae well developed, though a little smaller. Isthmus long, sharp, 

 and trenchant. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 765 



Scales not evident except in lateral line where they are very small. 

 Tubes small. A few small scales above base of pectoral behind gill- 

 opening, and along base of spinous dorsal. Lateral line a little high 

 at first then sloping down gradually behind soft dorsal, wavy to base 

 of caudal, though median, and not forming a keel. Pectoral with 

 distinct axillary cavity. Inner ventral ray well adnate to abdomen 

 by means of membrane. Eye without adipose eyelid, but skin on 

 postocular region just behind eye adipose-like. 



Spinous dorsal inserted well forward, about midway between tip 

 of snout and origin of soft dorsal, a little behind that of pectoral, 

 anterior spines longer than others, first two close together and fourth 

 longest. Base of fin depressable in scaly sheath. Soft dorsal inserted 

 a little in advance of that of soft anal, nearly midway between front 

 margin of orbit and base of caudal, anterior rays highest, graduated 

 down from first developed ones. Anal similar, also finlets. Caudal 

 broad, deeply forked, lobes slender, their outer edges straight, and 

 tips pointed. Pectoral broad, high, and upper rays longest, first simple 

 and enlarged. Ventral small, inserted well behind origin of pectoral 

 or about under its posterior base, and rays stout. 



Color in alcohol, back and uppermost surface rather light brown, 

 without traces of spots or markings. Lower surface including greater 

 portion of sides bright silvery-white. Greater part of head with 

 silvery. Fins pale or dilute warm olive-brown, except spinous dorsal. 

 Latter whitish, except upper anterior portion which is blackish-brown. 

 Pectoral with brownish, especially proximally. Ends of elevated soft 

 dorsal and caudal lobes dusky. Ventral and anal whitish. Iris dilute 

 brassy-white. Peritoneum pale or silvery. 



Length 7 inches. 



Type No. 11,400, A. N. S. P. West coast of Africa. Dr. Savage. 



One example which differs from Scomberomorus tritor (Cuvier)-' 

 in the fin radii. That fish cannot be identical with Scomberomorus 

 cavalla (Cuvier) as claimed by Dresslar and Feslar^^ if the original figure 

 is correct as it shows the depth about 4^. Bleeker's fish^^ is closer, 

 though it may be different. This latter agrees best with S. argyreus. 

 Apodontis may represent a distinct subgenus, as it is said to have strong 

 conical teeth .^^ 



i^Apybpioq^ silvered.) 



■^ Hist. Nat. Poiss., VIII, 1831, p. 129, PI. 218. 



2= Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., VII, 1887 (1889), p. 444. 



23 Nat. Verh. Hoi. Maat. Wet. Haarlem, XVIII, 1863, p. 72. 



" Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1, 1830-1, pp. 146, 169. 




766 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Xov., 



Scomberomorus guttatus (Schneider). 



Scomber yidtatus Schneider, Syst. Ichth. Blooh, ISOl, p. 23, PI. 5. Ad 

 Trauquebariam pelagius inter saxa. 



Head 4f ; depth 4J; D. XVII-iv. 15, 8; A. v, 14, 9; P. i, 20; V. i, 

 5: width of head 2 in its length; depth of head 1^; snout 2f ; eye 5; 

 maxillary li; mandible If; interorbital space 3; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 4: pectoral ly=^; ventral about 3. Gill-rakers 2 + 9, short, 

 barely half length of filaments. Color when fresh in arrack deep 

 slaty-glaucous above, side and lower surface of body silvery-white. 

 Back and upper portion of sitle with numerous round spots or elongate 

 blotches of deep glaucous, nnich deeper than ground color. Fu'st dor- 

 sal black. Soft dorsal, caudal and pectoral grayish. Lower finlets, 

 ventral and anal whitish, and upper finlets somewhat grayish. Length 

 13f inches. 



Four examples, two of which are young. The latter have the body 

 plain-colored, hardly evidences of spots or only a few ill-defined darker 

 blotches. Spinous dorsal deep black, except white posterior base. 

 Lateral line not forming a scaly keel on side of caudal peduncle, and 

 no keels at bases of caudal lobes. Adult with 27 teeth in upper jaw. 



Padang, Sumatra. Coll. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. H. ]\L Hiller. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. and Stanford University. 



Scomberomorus regalis (Bloch). 



Scomber regalis Bloch. Naturg. Ausl. Fisch., MI (X), 1793, p. 3S, PI. 333. 

 (Based on Pater Plunuer's MS., and evidently from the West Indies.) 



Head 4i; depth 4^; D. XVII-v, 12, S: A. v. 14. 8: eye 5 in head; 



snout 2|; maxillary li; interorbital space 3f. Gill-rakers 3 + 12. 



Teeth in jaws jgiij^. Maxillary reaching posterior margin of eye. A 



dark longitudinal line just below dark color of back toward caudal 



peduncle where it becomes obsolete. Iris pale brassy. Lobe of soft 



dorsal above blackish-brown. Length 9f inches. One example from 



San Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. M. Gabb. 



SIERRA subgen. nov. 

 Type Cybium cavalla Cuvier. 

 Less than 8 gill-rakers below angle, on first arch. Dorsal spines 

 XIV or XVI. Teeth about 30 in each jaw. Lateral line abruptly 

 descending below soft dorsal. 



{Sierra [Spanish], saw. Applied to these fishes by the Mexicans, in 

 the United States corrupted into Cero.) 

 Scomberomorus cavalla (Cuvier). 



Cybium cavalla Cuvier, Regne Animal. II. Ed. II. 1829, p. 200. (Basedon 



Guarapucu Marcgrave. Hist. Xat. Brasil., 164S, p. 178. Brazil.) 

 Cybium acervum Cope, Trans. Amer. Philcs. Soc, XIV, 1871, p. 472. 



Head 4f ; depth 4|; D. XV-vi, 12, 9; A. v, 14, 8; snout 2f in head; 




1904.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 767 



eye 5^; maxillary 1§; interorbital space 3^; pectoral U. Gill-rakers 



1 + 7 on first arch. Lobe of soft dorsal deep brown. Length 15 inches. 

 San Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. M. Gabb. Also a smaller 

 example w-ith same data. 



The three examples recorded from St. Martins, West Indies, are also 

 identical. They have depth 4 to 4^, D. XV (one XVI), and rakers 



2 + 6 (one 7), more or less rudimentary. 



LEMNISOMID^ fam. nom. nov.'s 



LEMNISOMIX.E subfam. nom. nov. 



LEMNISOMA Lesson. 



Voy. Aut. Mond. Coquille. ZooL. July 25, 1827, p. 160 (thyraitoides). 

 Gempylus Cuvier, Regne Animal, II, Ed. II, 1829, p. 200 (serpens). 



Lemnisoma serpens (Cuvier). Plate LI, upper figure. 



Gempylus serpens Cuvier, I. c. (Based on Serpens marinus, etc. Sloane 

 Voy. Jam., I, 1707, p. 26, PI 1, fig. 2. About the Tropick of Cancer.) 



Gempylus ophidianus Poev, Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, II, 1856-58 (1861) 

 p. 246, PI. 18, fig. 1 (head). Cuba. 



Head (damaged) about 5; depth about 17; D. XXXII, in, 10, 6; A. 

 I. II, 9, 7; P. II, 12; V. I, 4; width of head about o\ in its length; 

 depth of head about 3^; mandible about If; pectoral about 2^; lower 

 caudal lobe (damaged) about If; snout about ly^^ in head, measured 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye about of; maxillary about 1|; interorbital 

 space about 7 (damaged); least depth of caudal peduncle about 8; 

 seventh dorsal spine about 4|. 



Body very elongate, strongly compressed, and trunk of nearly uni- 

 form depth. Caudal peduncle compressed, its least depth about 4 its 

 length, measured from base of last lower finlet. 



Head compressed, attenuate, and profiles of both jaws nearly 

 straight, upper a little concave above nostrils. Snout long, conic, and 

 pointed. Eye apparently circular, high, close to upper profile, and 

 its anterior margin a little posterior in middle of length of head. 

 Mouth large, not completely closing, and large mandible with a rather 

 large hard, conic, fleshy point produced well beyond in front, tip of 

 upper jaw fitting in lower anteriorly. ^laxillary reaching a little be- 

 yond front rim of orbit, slipping below thin edge of preorbital 

 for good portion of its length, and its distal expanded extremity 

 about equal to infraorbital space. Teeth ji ~"^~ ^'! . compressed, 

 uniserial, broad, sharp pointed, and three mediardy in front of 

 upper jaw enlarged and posteriorly along edges barbed. A series of 

 small irregular teeth on palatines, none on vomer. Tongue long 



2^ Lemnisoma Lesson has priority over Gempylus Cuvier if identical, thus the 

 above changes. Their generic status, however, needs investigation. It may 

 also be noted that Gempylince Jordan and Evermann must give place to Lemni- 

 fominoe. 




768 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV-; 



slender, smooth, and united to floor of mouth by membrane, only 

 tip free. Nostrils small, far apart. Anterior circular, high on side 

 of snout, and about 4 of an eye-diameter before front rim of orbit. 

 Posterior a small vertical slit in last third of space between anterior 

 and front rim of orbit. Interorbital space a little broad and somewhat 

 convex. 



Gill-opening large. Rakers rather few small irregular obsolete 

 pricks. Filaments about f of orbital diameter. Pseudobranchise 

 well developed, but smaller. Pharyngeal teeth in elongated series 

 and thorn-like. 



Narrow thin elongate small scales only evident on caudal peduncle 

 and base of caudal. Lateral line double, and originating opposite base 

 of first dorsal spine. Upper branch extends high along back till oppo- 

 site anterior elongated dorsal rays, where it suddenly becomes incom- 

 plete. Lower branch, till it becomes median, along side well behind 

 pectoral, then continuing straight to base of caudal. 



Origin of spinous dorsal about an eye-diameter, or possibly a trifle 

 more, in advance of that of pectoral, and base of fin about equal to ^ 

 of total length of specimen. Spines placed rather far apart, slender, 

 longest about f to f of depth of body, and margin of fin not notched, 

 membranes forming an entire edge. Posteriorly spines become 

 shorter, so that soft dorsal is distinct. Entire fin depressable in a 

 groove. Soft dorsal inserted near last f of total length, elevated 

 anteriorly, and rays graduated from second simple one which is longest. 

 Finlets slender, rather high, and posterior margin of each adnate to 

 back by a membrane. A small rudimentary spine a short distance in 

 front of soft anal. Soft anal inserted opposite and similar to soft 

 dorsal. Caudal forked, rudimentary rays strong, and with a slight 

 elevation laterally on base at terminus of lateral line. Pectoral small, 

 falcate, and upper rays much longer than others. \^entral rudimentary, 

 inserted a little behind base of pectoral, and spine strong though short. 



Color in alcohol brown with traces of leaden-silvery, and l^ack appar- 

 ently brown. Top of head brown. Dorsal brown, caudal brownish, 

 and anal pale brown. Pectoral brownisli, a little darker basally. 

 Iris dull slaty. Peritoneimi pale brownish. 



Length 31f inches. 



One example from San Domingo, West Indies. Prof. W. ^\. Gabb. 

 This rare species is only known, since originally described, from the 

 accounts by Pocy and Liitken. The Polynesian form, Gempylus colu- 

 ber Cuvier,^^ considered identical by Dr. Giinther,-^ needs comparison. 



'^Hist. Nat. Poiss., VIII, 1831, p. 155, PL 221. 



" Journ. Mus. Godef. (Fische der Siidsee), IV, 1S75, p. 106, PL 68, fig. B. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



769 



1904.] 



Dr. Giinther's figure does not indicate the maxillary reaching the front 

 of the orbit, and the small scales on the caudal peduncle and base of 

 the caudal. It shows what is probably intended for the lateral 

 line originating apparently opposite and level with the base of the 

 pectoral, but no dorsal branch is indicated. Poey also pointed out 

 that the example figiu-ed by Valenciennes, =« if correct, must be different 



from L. serpens. 



Dr. Waite has pertinent remarks concerning this species in Aus- 

 tralian waters.^ 



ISTIOPHORID^. 



Istiophorus nigricans (Lac^pfede). 



Makaira nigricaris Lac^pede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., IV, 1803, p. 

 rivage de la mer voisin de la Rochelle. (M. Traversay.) 



Sur un 



Fig. 1. — Istiophorus nigricans (Lacepede). 

 Head, figured above, of an example without data. 



Tetrapturus imperator (Schneider). 



Xiphias imperator Schneide 



mari Mediterraneo. ^" 

 Tetrapturus bclone Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Peso. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. 80 



Xiphias imperator Schneider, Syst. Ichth. Bloch, 1801, p. 93, PI. 21. In 

 mari Mediterraneo. ^° 



Fig. 2. — Tetrapturus imperator (Schneider). 



A dried head, figured above, very probably belonging to the old 

 Bonaparte collection, as it bears the number 457. 



28 mane Aniinal, Ed. Grav., 18—, descr. PI. 49, fig. 2. 



^^Rec. Austral. Mus., VIII (7), June 15, 1900, p. 199. Also see reference, 



I c ,Y (3), March 11, 1904, p. 198 (based on same example). 



5" Based on De I'Empereur ou Poisson a Epee, Duhamel du Monceau and de 

 Lamarre, Trait. Gen. Pesch., IV, suite de la second partie, tome III, section \, 

 1769-82, p. 333, PI. 25, fig. 2. Mediterranee. 




770 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XOV., 



XIPHIID^. 

 Xiphias gladius Linnaeus. 



Syst. Nat,, Ed. X, 1758, p. 248. In Oceano Europse. Bonaparte, Cat. 



Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. SO. 



Two examples from Italy, Bonaparte Coll. (Nos. 367 and ^.) Dr. 

 T. B. Wilson. One of these is a dried skin about 3 feet in length. 



LEPIDOPID^. 



Lepidopus caudatus (Euphrasen). 



Trichiurus caudatus Euphrasen, Kon. Schwed. Akad. Wiss. Abhaiidl., IX, 



1788, p. 48, PL 9, upper figure. In Oceano, ad Cap. b. Spei. 

 Lepidopus ensiformis Bonaparte, Cat. Met. Pesc. Europ., Napoli, 1846, p. 78. 



Several examples in the Bonaparte Coll. from Dr. Wilson. Italy. 



TRICHIURID^. 



TRICHIURUS Linnceus. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 246 (lepturus). 



Encheliopus Klem, in Walbaum, Pet. Arted. Gen. Pise, III, 1792, p. 583. 



(Type Trichiurus lepturus Linna?us.) 

 Enchelyopus Bleeker, Versl. Med. Kon. Ak. Wet. Amsterdam, (2) II, 1868, 



p. 292 Qiaumela). 



LEPTURACANTHUS subgen. nov. 

 Type Trichiurus sarcda Cuvier. 



Anterior anal spine enlarged, and the others all more or less distinct. 

 Eye usiialh^ small. 



(AsTTTvi, slender; ahpd, tail; a/.w^Oa^ thorn.) 



Trichiurus savala Cuvier. 



Hist. Nat. Poiss., Vm, 1831, p. 184, PI. 224. Pondichery. (MM. Lesclie- 

 nault et Dussumier.) 



Head 7f ; depth 18; D. about 107?; A. LXXIV? (and a few more 

 obsolete); snout 2| in head, from tip of upper jaw; eye 7; maxillary 

 2\; interorbital space 7. Rakers 5 + 8. First anal spine enlarged. 

 Iris silvery. Body apparently uniform silvery. Fins pale. Length 

 14f inches. Singapore, ^Malacca. Dr. M. Burrough. 



Subgenus TRICHIURUS Linnseus. 



First anal spine not enlarged. 



Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus. 



Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, p. 246. America. China. 

 Many examples from San Domingo and St. Martin's (West Indies), 

 Surinam and coast of Brazil. A number are small, and the largest is 

 nearly 3 feet long. They range about as follows : Head 6^ to 7f ; depth 

 12^ to 16i; D. 132 to 138; A. XCVIII to CVII; snout 2f to 3^ in head, 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye 5 to 7; interorbital space 6i to 7^. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 771 



Triohiurus haumela (Forsk&l). 



Clupea haumela Forskal, Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 72. Mochha?. [Red 



Sea.] 

 Trichmrus haumela Fowler, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., XII (2), 1904, 

 p. 506, PI. 7, lower figure. 



Head 6^; depth 14; D. about 134; A. about CVII; P. i, 10; width 

 of head 5^ in its length; depth of head 2y%; mandible If; pectoral 3; 

 depth of body at anus 2^; snout 2f in head, from tip of upper jaw'; 

 eye 6|-; tip of snout to end of maxillary 2f ; interorbital space 7^. 

 Tip of mandible broad and rounded in front, "with a small fleshy 

 papilla. Front of upper jaw armed with 4 large barbed fangs. Front of 

 lower jaw with 2 smaller barbed fangs. Teeth uniserial, compressed, 

 and becoming larger posterior^, in sides of jaw. Teeth of upper jaw 

 concealed posteriorly by broad preorbital. Small maxillary also con- 

 cealed when mouth is closed, and reaching opposite front rim of pupil. 

 Tongue elongate, pointed, and free, Interorbital space flat. Gill- 

 opening extending forward below nostril. Rakers 5 + 8, short, sharp 

 pointed, and with rather broad bases. Isthmus trenchant. Anal 

 fin represented by broad short truncate spines. Color in arrack, when 

 fresh, silvery -white, upper surface leaden-gray, darker on top of head 

 and back. Dorsal pale or whitish on lower half, and upper or marginal 

 half grayish, becoming dusky on anterior portion of fin. Pectoral 

 grayish. Iris pale yellowish. Peritoneum gray. Length 27yV inches. 

 Two examples. Padang, Sumatra. Coll. A. C. Harrison, Jr., and Dr. 

 H. ]\I. Hiller. Stanford University and Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



A small example, 16^ inches in length, from Beirut, Syria, probably 

 belongs to this species. It has — Head 7f ; depth 17; D, about 124; 

 A. LXXX? (and a few obsolete) ; snout 3 in head, from tip of upper 

 jaw; eye oh; interorbital space 7; maxillary 2h; pectoral 3. 



This species is closely related to Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus, differ- 

 ing apparently in the less numerous dorsal rays and the deeper body. 

 T. haumela was recorded a number of times from India,^^ although 

 Day considered his T. malaharicus^ from Cochin as identical. 



31 Based on Savala Russell, Fishes of Coromandel, I, 1803, p. 30, PI. 41. 

 22 Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1865, p. 20. 




772 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. 



December 6. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwix Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



The death of T. M. Drown, a member, November 16, was announced. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: 



"New, Rare and Little-known Scombroids, No. 1." by Henry W. 

 Fowler (October 31). 



"New ClausiUidae of the Japanese Empire," by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (November 22). 



"Description of a New Species of Earthworm {Diplocardia longa) 

 from Georgia," by J. Percy Moore (November 30). 



"A Catalogue of the Erigonese of North America," by Cyrus W. 

 Crosby (December 5). 



"A Contribution to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera of South and 

 Central Florida," by James A, G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (Decem- 

 ber 12). 



"New, Rare and Little-known Scombroids, No. 2," by Henry W. 

 Fowler (December 13). 



Some Practical Color Tests. — Dr. Henry Emerson Wetherill 

 explained a series of charts illustrating practical color tests as applicable 

 primarily to man, although the charts can be used for work in other 

 fields. 



An ante-mortem blood-color scale represents the amount of Oxy- 

 hsemoglobin with 100 per cent, as normal. It is made circular to facili- 

 tate its use. There are perforations between the adjacent colors so 

 that they may be the better matched. A similar series of colors repre- 

 sents the blood twenty-four hours after death. 



The relative humidity of the air is illustrated by a moistiu-e scale, 

 which can also be used to measure the amount of cutaneous excretion. 



The colors of the urine are represented by two charts, and a scale for 

 the colors of the feces enables one to report nimierically the conditions 

 as found. 



An improvement of the Dimethylamidoazobenzol test for HCL 

 was shown, and remarks made on its application. 



These scales serve as standards of comparison. A classification was 

 contained in the book given to the Academy. 




1904.] natural sciexces of philadelphia. 773 



December 20. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirtj'-four persons present. 



The following were accepted for publication : 




774 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



THE] ORTHOPTERA OF THOMAS COUNTY, GEORGIA, AND LEON COUNTY, 



FLORIDA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The material on which the following study is based comprised over 

 three thousand specimens, of ninety-four species. The majority of 

 this extensive series is contained in the collection of the junior author, 

 but a thoroughly representative series is in the collection of the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, part being collected by Rehn 

 and part presented by Hebard. 



The series studied contains material taken on dates extending from 

 December, 1902, to April, 1904. The junior author resided at Thomas- 

 ville from December, 1902, to May, 1903, and from late November, 

 1903, to early April, 1904. During the summer of 1903 a collector 

 was employed to work in the vicinity of Thomas ville, and a very good 

 series of the summer and early autumn species obtained. The senior 

 author spent from March 14 to April 5, 1904, with Mr. Hebard and 

 they together examined considerable of the surrounding country. 

 Several trips were made over the State line into Leon county, the 

 adjoining portion of Florida, one in 1903 and two in 1904. 



The critical portion of the following paper is almost entirely the work 

 of the senior author, while the field notes, which are followed by M. H., 

 are the work of the junior author, but the}^ agree in all the state- 

 ments made. 



As a general description of the country is usually of great value in 

 a faunistic paper, we have summarized the principal features of the 

 region under consideration and also made some notes on the occurrence, 

 time of abundance and local environment of a number of the more 

 interesting species of Orthoptera. 



Thomasville, Georgia, the county seat of Thomas county, is situated 

 in the southwestern part of the State, some twelve miles distant from 

 the Florida line and about fifty miles from Alabama. The surrounding 

 country is gently rolling and covered with fine pine forests, and divided 

 into large plantations, many of which have the greater part of their 

 area cleared and under cultivation, the chief crops being corn and 

 cotton. Sweet potatoes, sugar cane and peanuts are also extensively 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 775 



produced. The pine forests are usually wholly composed of the long- 

 leaf variety, but here and there a forest of nothing but the short-leaf 

 pine is to be found. In the pine woods there are hardly any other trees 

 excepting occasional oaks, sweet gums and dogwoods. These woods are 

 very open and there being hardly any undergrowth, a wagon may be 

 driven through them almost anyw^here. The ground is in nearly all 

 places thickly carpeted with wire-grass and other small plants, with 

 here and there a dense clump of gall-berry bushes, while everywhere 

 the long pine needles are thickly scattered. Throughout these woods 

 the yellow jasmine grows in great luxuriance and when in flower is 

 most beautiful. In each depression of the land a stream is to be 

 found, called in this country a "branch." These streams are almost 

 invariably filled with a thick growth of magnolias, bay, black gum, 

 tulip, beech and other trees, while the undergrowth of blackberry, 

 grape and other vines is usually very dense, and an occasional thicket 

 of pipe cane adds to the difficulty of following the course of one of 

 these streams. To this must be added the fact that in many places 

 the ground on both sides of the "branch" is boggy and there are 

 muddy holes covered by sphagnum between the roots of the trees. 

 There are a few places where the pine forests have been cut down and 

 the land left uncultivated ; in these situations has sprung up a dense 

 growth of scrub oak, which has completely choked out almost all other 

 vegetation. In other unreclaimed fields the short-leaf pine thrives, 

 and less frec^uently one finds a heavy growth of young long-leaf pines. 



The Ocklockonee river flows within five miles of the town, and is a 

 stream about thirty feet in width during the dry part of the year, but 

 diu-ing the heavy rains it spreads for a mile or more over the nearby 

 country, which is in most places low and swampy. 



Along portions of the river bank are dense swamps of gum, cypress 

 and other trees. Through these swamps run numerous ridges of clay 

 and sand with here and there shallow lagoons, which with the great 

 height of the trees and the numbers of fallow and mouldering logs 

 lend to these bottoms a very wild aspect. These places are the only 

 situations in this part of the country where deer, wildcats and an occa- 

 sional bear may be found. The character of the country just across 

 the line in Leon county, Florida, differs noticeably from that about 

 Thomasville. It is more rolling, with small lakes in every depression. 

 This country is unhealthy, for in the summer these lakes dry up expos- 

 ing to the sun a great amount of decayed vegetable matter. The 

 largest lakes near Thomasville are lamonia and Miccosukee. They are 

 distant from the town about fifteen and eighteen miles respectively. 




776 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC., 



The former, although some miles long, occasionally goes dry in a very 

 short space of time, and fills up again with as great rapidity. The 

 water has been found to flow in and out through a subterranean pas- 

 sage, and once, when the lake went dry, a peculiarly marine fish was 

 taken from the opening through which the water had receded. This 

 opening was filled with a great number of fish, although they had been 

 left dead by the thousand on the bed of the lake when the water dis- 

 appeared. 



The soil of this region is rich, but not deep, the red clay, which is 

 everywhere, often being within a few inches of the surface of the high 

 ground where, however, the crops seem to grow as well as anywhere. 

 The Orthoptera of the country around Thomasville is best repre- 

 sented in the pine woods. Here among the wire-grass and pine needles 

 which carpet the ground many interesting species are to be found. 

 In early December, before the frosts have thinned their numbers, 

 Amblytropidia occidentalis, Aptenopedes sphenarioides and Radinotatum 

 brevipenne are most abundant through these forests; Schistocerca 

 damnifica, Melanoplus keeleri, M. nigrescens and M. scudderi are then 

 by no means common but more restricted to colonies. Among the 

 really scarce species are Melanoplus sijlvestris and Gymnoscirtetes 

 pusillus. By December OrphuleUa pratorum, which swarms in the 

 open spots of the woods in the fall, becomes quite scarce, as is the case 

 with Arphia xanthoptera, and to a considerable extent that of Dicty- 

 ophorus guttatus. By the end of December almost all Orthoptera dis- 

 appears owing to the cold weather, and during the following two months 

 the conditions usually remain the same. In March, at the advent of 

 warm weather, Amblytropidia occidentalis and Aptenopedes sphena- 

 rioides are again very plentiful and Schistocerca americana appears 

 common in certain localities, while S. damnifica and Arphia sulphurea 

 are generally noticed. The Forficididce is represented by several 

 species, only one of which. Labia burgessii, is abundant. Infrequently 

 Labia minor and Anisolabis anmdipes are found, and occasional small 

 colonies of Labia guttata and Spongophora brunneipennis located. 

 These colonies are usually found in dead magnolias or other hardwood 

 trees, but occasional specimens may be taken from bark on pine logs. 

 The Blattidce is represented by Ceratinoptera lutea, which is sometimes 

 very common among the dead leaves under oaks, sweet gums and 

 hickories. In the pine logs between December and March many imma- 

 ture Ischnoptera may be taken by peeling off the loose bark; mature 

 individuals begin to appear about the middle of April, and by May 

 most specimens are fully developed. The most plentiful species of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 777 



Mantidce is Stagmomantis Carolina and its favorite habitat is a black- 

 berry bush or other low growth, occasionally in the pine woods, but 

 more often in branches and fields. The slender Thesprotia graminis 

 is a purely pine woods species, and is found among the wire-grass, 

 where it is so well protected by both form and coloration as to almost 

 defy detection. In the spring Conocephalus appears in numbers in the 

 broom sedge and other grasses throughout the pine w^oods. The 

 Gryllidce in the fall before the frosts is represented by a few species, 

 of which Nemobius ambitiosus is most plentiful, and it may be found 

 in diminished numbers throughout the winter. Under rubbish Gryllus 

 are common, and Orocharis gryllodes may be found hibernating under 

 signs on oak trees. During the spring, in certain restricted localities, 

 Falcicula hehardi is quite plentiful among the wire-grass, and later in 

 the summer Hapithus brevipennis, while OEcarithus appears frequenting 

 1he bushes and shrubs, especially those growing on the sides of the 

 branches. The Orthoptera found in these branches differs greatly 

 from that of the pine woods. Here in the late fall hardly anything is 

 to be found except Nemobius carolinus and exiguus which are plenti- 

 ful, the former in beds of sphagnum only; and some Paroxya floridiana 

 restricted to a few sunny spots. In the spring, however, Tettigidea 

 lateralis is very common in all grassy spots, and in certain localities 

 Tettigidea spicata is found. In other locations Acrydium arenosum, 

 Paratettix texanus and Neotettix femoratus may be taken, the best 

 places being where these streams empty into a lake or flow through 

 low sandy stretches of fields. The species of Acrididoe found in the 

 fields just before the heavy frosts are Chortophaga viridifasciata, 

 Melanoplus propinquus and Orphulella pratorum, all in great numbers; 

 Psinidia fenestralis, Melanoplus atlanis and Spharagemon ivyomingi- 

 anum are moderately common earlier but soon disappear, while Dichro- 

 morpha viridis, which swarms in the summer, is not in evidence. 

 Among the species found during the summer months are Hippiscus 

 phoenicopterus, H. riigosus, Spharagemon bolli, Dissosteira Carolina, and 

 Trimerotropis citrina. 



Family FORPIOULID.^. 

 Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



This species is apparently not uncommon at Thomasville, as speci- 

 mens were taken May 2, 21, 26 and 29; August 12, and a series of eight 

 the first week in October, 1903. These individuals are indistinguish- 

 able from Cuban specimens, and exliibit considerable variation in 

 size, but'in color are quite constant. 

 50 




778 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



These specimens were taken in hot weather only and were attracted 

 to the arc Hghts. (M. H.) 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



Specimens of this species taken at Thomasville, December 24, 1902 

 (under pine bark), August 20, September 9, December 9, 1903 (in 

 house), and March 23, 1904, are the first individuals recorded from the 

 United States. In one individual (December 9) the maculations on 

 the limbs are rather weak. 



The few specimens of this species taken were all met with accident- 

 ally. It appeared to be at all times very scarce. (M. H.) 

 Spongophora brunneipennis (Serville). 



A number of specimens (ten) of this species were taken at Thomas- 

 ville under magnoHa bark, December 10, 11 and 13, 1903. They are 

 equally divided between the sexes and are constant in size and colora- 

 tion. An unmature specimen was also taken under pine bark in Leon 

 county, Florida, on April 7, 1903. 



All the specimens of this species were taken from under the bark of a 

 dead magnolia tree. They were found in colonies of three or four 

 huddled closely together, and upon the bark which concealed them 

 being pried off they made vigorous attempts to escape. The speci- 

 mens of this species taken, with hardly an exception, were under 

 bark five or more feet from the ground, where the decayed wood was 

 dry and pithy and not as far gone as that at the foot of the tree. 

 (M. H.) 



Labia minor (Linnaeus). 



A specimen of this species from Thomasville, but without further 

 data, was examined. 



Labia guttata Scudder. 



Three female specimens of this species have been examined from 

 Thomasville, one taken January 1, 1903, another January 24, 1903, 

 and the other in Georgia pine woods on March 1, 1904. 



A scarce species in this locality, taken from under the bark of dead 

 pine logs. In 1904 but one colony, consisting of four or five specimens, 

 was discovered, although during the year many logs were thoroughly 

 examined. (M. H.) 



Labia burgessii Scudder. 



This species is quite common at Thomasville under the bark of dead 

 trees. A series of over a hundred and fifty specimens, representing 

 the adult condition of both sexes and immature forms, has been exam- 

 ined. This series plainly demonstrates that there is considerable 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 779 



variation in the size of the adults of both sexes, but coloration appears 

 to be quite uniform', such difference as is apparent being due to the 

 extension of the abdomen, which causes the insect to appear more of a 

 chestnut color than is the case when in normal position. The speci- 

 mens were all taken in the months of December and March. 



This species is seldom to be met with, but when found is almost in- 

 variably in very large numbers. In 1903 a few specimens were taken 

 in the woods about Thomasville, and one colony of over forty specimens 

 was discovered in Leon County in a dead pine log under the loose 

 bark. In 1904 but one colony was observed; this was in the trunk 

 of a large magnolia which, though long dead, was still standing. The 

 specimens were all taken from the trunk less than five feet above the 

 ground where the wood was soft, damp and pulpy and the bark loose. 

 By visiting this tree several times and picking off all the loose bark and 

 soft wood over one hundred and fifty specimens were obtained, the 

 specimens usually found singly. This was the same tree on which 

 Spongophora hrunneipennis was found. Quite a number of immature 

 specimens of S. hrunneipennis were taken among individuals of this 

 species. (M. H.) 



Family BLATTID^. 



Ischnoptera inaequalis Saussure anJ Zehntner. 



Immature specimens of what appears to be this species were taken 

 at Thomasville, on March 23 and April 9, 1904. The individuals taken 

 on the latter date were from Linton's Pond, a body of water several 

 miles southeast of Thomasville. All were on oak. A single adult 

 male was taken at Thomasville, on May 6, 1903, and this appears to 

 be unquestionably incequalis. Blatchley has recently recorded this 

 species from Indiana, and with the original localities — North Mexico 

 and Texas — and Costa Rica, we have some idea of the distribution of 

 the species. The immature Thomasville specimens are in such condi- 

 tion that the identification is attended by a little uncertainty, but no 

 other known North American species agrees with them as fully as 

 inaequalis. 



All the immature specimens taken were found under advertising 

 signs on white oak trees only, and were extremely rapid in their move- 

 ments. (M. H.) 



Isclinoptera jolmsoni Rehn. 



This species is represented in the Thomasville collections examined 

 by an adult male taken July 23, 1903, and a series o' immature indi- 

 viduals taken December 1, 1903, March 1, 23 and 25, and April 9, 

 1904. The immature specimens were all taken under sign, on trees 




780 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF U^eC., 



or under bark. Naturally some little uncertainty is attached to the 

 identification of the specimens, but they can safely be considered 

 johnsoni. Some individuals possess light narrow lateral margins to 

 the pronotum, mesonotum and metanotum. 



All the immature specimens taken were found under signs on oak 

 trees in company with immature individuals of other species of Isch- 

 noptera. When revealed the majority in their hurry fell from the tree 

 and hid in the leaves at its foot, but a few, relying in their protective 

 coloration, would press themselves closely to the bark and remain 

 motionless. (M. H.) 

 Ischnoptera uhleriana Saussure. 



Adult Thomasville specimens of this species taken ]\Iarch 23, April 6, 

 May, July 10 and 25, 1903, have been examined. They fully agree 

 with specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Data with 

 some specimens informs us they were taken from under pine bark. 



This is the most abundant roach found in this region under the bark 

 of dead pine logs. It was hardly ever met with except on pine. 

 (M. H.) 



Ischnoptera major (Saussure and Zehntner). 



A large series of immature individuals, some nearly adult, we refer 

 to this species. The larger specimens are undoubtedly major, but the 

 smaller ones may represent other species as well. The localities 

 represented are Thomasville, Tyty Plantation and the Ocklockonee 

 river, and the dates range from February to October. 



Almost all the immature specimens taken of this species were from 

 under the bark of dead pine logs. (M. H.) 



Ceratinoptera lutea Saussure and Zehntner. 



Several immature specimens of this species were taken at Thomas- 

 ville on December 31, 1902. 



This species is occasionally very abundant in dead oak leaves. 

 Many immature specimens were also seen under signs on trees, espe- 

 cially on sweet gum, in company with immature specimens of Isch- 

 noptera. (M. H.) 

 Periplaneta aTuericana (Linnaeus). 



This omnipresent species is represented in the collections by a num- 

 ber o' Thomasville specimens taken in April, June and December. 

 Periplaneta truncata Krauss. 



This species, which was previously known from the United States 

 by one record from Victoria, Texas,^ is represented by two females 



' Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., XXVI, p. 779. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 781 



from Thomasville, taken in October, 1903, and on January 9, 1904. 

 These individuals, as is the case with the Texan specimens, are 

 referable to the "var. a," of Saussure and Zehntner. 



The specimen of this species which was taken on January 9, 1904, 

 I found dead on the sidewalk of Jackson street, under a large live oak. 

 (M. H.) 



Family MANTID^. 



Stagmomantis Carolina (Johansson). 



This species is represented in the collection by immature individuals 

 taken in July and August, and adults taken in August, September and 

 October. 

 Gonatista grisea (Fabricius). 



A single specimen of this species from Thomasville was examined. 

 It was taken in early winter resting on the dead leaves of a small water 

 oak. 

 Thesprotia graminis (Scudder). 



This species is represented in the Thomasville material by two 

 somewhat immature individuals taken August 19 and September 30, 

 1903. 



This species is found in the wire-grass which carpets the pine forest, 

 and which it so closely resembles that the closest scrutiny is required 

 to reveal its presence. (M. H.) 



Family PHASMID^. 

 Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stoll). 



This species is represented by specimens taken at Thomasville, 

 March 20, 1903, and at Tyty Plantation, Thomas county, December 

 12, 1903. The latter individuals, a pair, were taken on pine in coitu. 



A number of half-grown specimens of this species were taken by 

 beating the gall-berry bushes growing near a "branch" which crosses 

 the river road nearly two miles from town. (M. H.) 



Family ACRIDID^. 

 Acrydium arenosum (Burmeister). 



This species is found common in the vicinity of water, on sandy 

 beaches and wet soil, but probably is local in its distribution even in 

 such environment, as it was taken at but three points. In a piece of 

 bayou country, amid cypress and black gum, on the Ocklockonee 

 river west of Thomasville, this species was taken on February 29, March 

 29 and April 1 and 9, 1904. In the vicinity of a small lake in northern 

 Leon county, specimens were taken on March 21, 1903, and March 22, 

 1904. The series examined consists of sixty specimens, and exhibits 




782 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



a great amount of variation in the rugosity of the pronotum, the char- 

 acter of the median carina of the pronotum, and a slight amount of 

 color variation, the latter chiefly in the intensity of the pair of spots 

 posterior to the humeral angles. 

 Neotettix bolteri Hancock. 



A single specimen of what appears to be this species was taken in 

 Leon county, March 22, 190-4, in swampy ground at the edge of a small 

 lake. 



Neotettix femoratus (Scudder). 



A variable and interesting series of specimens from Thomas ville, 

 taken in late June, early July, September and October, 1903, and 

 April 9 and 10, 1904, are referable to this species. While a great 

 amount of variation is exhibited by the specimens examined, they 

 appear, after comparison with the tj-pe, to represent Scudder's species. 

 Three individuals belong to a type with the posterior portion of the 

 pronotum elongate. 



This species, during the summer, was found moderately plentiful. 

 (M. H.) 



Paratettix texanus Hancock. 



Three Thomasville specimens, two males, one female, are contained 

 in the series examined. They were taken on marshy meadow or sandy 

 beach at Linton's Pond on March 21, April 10, 1904. This species has 

 been recorded from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia and South 

 Carolina. Its status appears to be more likely that of a mere subspecies 

 of P. cucullatus. 



Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



This species is represented by a series of seventeen specimens taken 

 at two localities in Thomas county. At one point about two miles 

 west of Thomasville, in wet pine woods, it was taken on December 14, 

 1903, April 9, 1904; while on February 29, March 29 and April 1 it 

 was taken in bayou country along the Ocklockonee river. A form 

 with the pronotum elongate is represented by four specimens, two of 

 each sex. 



Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 



This species was very abundant in moist localities in Thomas and 

 Leon counties. In bottom land as well as on sandy stretches and 

 moist meadow this interesting little locust was noted. Specimens 

 examined were taken in the months of February, March, April, July, 

 August and September. The series examined, over one hundred and 

 thirty in number, exhibits a considerable amount of variation in size 

 and in the angulation of the anterior margin of the pronotum. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 783 



Eadinotatum brevipenne (Thomas). 



This interesting and peculiar species is mainly a common inhabitant 

 of pine woods in Thomas and Leon counties. It lives among the dried 

 needles and apparently depends for safety more on protective resem- 

 blance and coloration than on anything else, as the saltatorial powers 

 are limited and the flight organs useless. Three color types are repre- 

 sented in the series of one hundred and eleven specimens examined, 

 one type being uniform brownish of varying shades, another brownish 

 with the dorsal surface of the head, pronotum and tegmina grass green, 

 and the third brownish with the lateral aspect greenish. From the 

 material examined it would appear that around Thomasville the species 

 is represented by mature individuals in late spring and early summer 

 (April to July), September individuals being extremely small, while 

 a large number of November, December and March specimens show a 

 gradu^ increase in size. The peculiar character of the subgenital 

 plate of the male is pronounced in specimens taken in November. 

 Color notes from life: Green phase, nymph, Thomasville, Georgia, 

 November 30, 1903 ; color of the dorsal surface, antennae, eyes, mandi- 

 bles, labrum, median and anterior limbs, posterior tibiae and tips of the 

 posterior femora wood brown; lateral aspects, face, meso- and meta- 

 sternum and posterior femora (except the distal portions) apple green. 

 Brown phase, nymph, Thomasville, Georgia, November 30, 1903; gen- 

 eral color wood brown, obsciu^ely and rather irregularly lined and spot- 

 ted with broccoli brown, a rather distinct postocular and pronotal 

 streak being developed; posterior femora with the apical portions 

 blackish. The color of adult males is grass green on the dorsal surface 

 of the pronotum and tegmina, the abdomen, lateral aspect and dorsal 

 surface of the femora as in the immature ; inferior margin of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum pale ochraceous. The adult female is uniform 

 wood brown, except the eyes, which are umber obscurely spotted with 

 darker brown. One adult female, however, has a green and brown 

 coloration, but the pattern is exactly the reverse of that found in the 

 males, the green being lateral instead of dorsal. Several specimens 

 examined are strongly overcast with blackish spots. 



I noticed many immature specimens of this species pale straw brown 

 in color, and one or two specimens taken were profusely marked with 

 small black dots. On April 7, 1904, I noticed several mature males of 

 this species in the sprouting broom sedge at the edge of the golf course 

 near thick woods. Returning to this place two days later, I took a 

 number of mature males and several females almost adult. These 

 males were nearly all of the green form, while the females were entirely 




784 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



brown. Roturning to this place on the next day, I at last succeeded in 

 taking a mature female. (M. H.) 

 Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



Seven specimens of this species taken at Thomasville, in 1903, have 

 been examined. Four of the seven are immature and were taken on 

 June 30, July 6, 7 and 16. The four adults were taken June 30 (cJ^), 

 July 6(9), September 30 ( 9 ) and December 14 ( 9 ). An interesting 

 feature noticed in this series, and substantiated by other material 

 from the Middle Atlantic States, is the transition from a depressed 

 ensiform antenna in the immature form to a slender, subfiliform type 

 in the adult. From a phylogenetic standpoint this fact would indicate 

 a type with ensiform antennsc, like Mermiria, as the ancestor of the 

 genus Syrhula. 



I captured one female specimen of this species in damp low pine 

 woods in December. (M. H.) 

 Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



This modestly colored but lively species is almost without exception 

 found in pine and black gum woods, but in pine woods the species is 

 more abundant than elsewhere, being found in association with Radino- 

 tatum and Aptenopedes. The series examined contains ninety-eight 

 specimens from Thomas and Leon counties, and exhibits a great amount 

 of variation in color and some in structure. In some female speci- 

 mens the pronotum is more expanded than in others, and the head also 

 appears slightly stouter. The amount of color variation is remark- 

 able, though confined to browns and grays. From an extreme black- 

 ish-brown form all intergrades are present to types of a uniform sienna 

 and ashy gray. Some individuals are obscurely lined on each side of 

 the median carina of the pronotum. The following color notes are 

 from life: Female, Thomasville, November 30, 1903; general color 

 mars brown and mummy brown spotted and streaked; eyes broccoli 

 brown; posterior femora laterally mars brown, darkest dorsally, above 

 wood brown with a few mars brown spots, beneath pinkish-vinaceous, 

 internally milky white blotched with blackish and dull brown; posterior 

 tibise basally wood brown becoming l:)luish-black apically; abdomen 

 with the dorsal surface pale ochraceous-rufous, laterally wood brown 

 washed blackish basally, each segment with the apical margin milky 

 white; inferior surface pinkish-vinaceous. Female, Thomasville, No- 

 vember 30, 1903; similar to the specimen described above, except that 

 the dorsal surface is overcast with a pale whitish suffusion and the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum, the pleura and the genjE and postocular 

 regions of the head are suffused with dull orange-rufous. The only 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 785 



immature specimen in the scries examined was taken on November 30. 

 The adults were taken on dates extending from the latter part of 

 October to the early part of April. 



This species of the pine forest, although it is singularly protected by 

 its coloration when in its favorite haunt among the pine needles, is, 

 nevertheless, a most wary and active species. Both males and females 

 fly with the greatest rapidity and when alarmed will keep on the wing 

 for a considerable distance. When approached quietly they will 

 spring up with great speed, but only fly a short distance. Diving 

 into a tuft of w^ire-grass and pine needles, they seem to literally glide 

 down to the most obscure place at the roots of the grass, where, 

 although perfectly hid, they remain alert and upon the approach of 

 anything make another rapid flight to some still safer place. I have 

 never been able to ascertain how these insects are able to start out of 

 the center of a thick tuft of grass at full speed and dive into the very 

 center of another in the space of time required by them. This is the 

 only species I know of that can slip out of one's hand when, after 

 approaching within a few inches of the specimen, one pounces upon it. 

 It can not only do this, however, but can escape with such speed that 

 track of it is very easily lost. (M. H.) 



Orphulella pratorum Scudder. 



This species is, judging from the amount of material examined, 

 exceedingly abundant at Thomas\allc from late June to late October, 

 but particularly in September; while individuals taken in November, 

 December, May and early June show its presence then, but probably 

 not in such numbers as in summer and early fall. The series examined 

 numbers four hundred and twenty-four specimens and represents all 

 types and shades of coloration, as well as illustrating the great diversity 

 in size exhibited by specimens of the female sex. 

 Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



This species is represented by a series of one hundred and forty-three 

 specimens from Thomasville, taken in the months from June to 

 December inclusive. As usual in the species, great variation in size 

 is exhibited by the series, and both color forms are represented, the 

 green being greatly in the majority. 

 Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister). 



This species is represented in the material studied by four specimens, 

 one male and three females, taken at Thomasville, March 16, Septem- 

 ber 24, November 30 and December 10. 



Between December and March a stray specimen of this species may 

 occasionally be met with in the oak and hickory woods. (M. H.) 




786 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF iDeC, 



Arphia granulata Saussure. 



A male and female of this species from Thomasville, taken May 27, 

 1903, have been examined. 



Arphia sulphurea (Fabricius). 



Specimens of this species were taken in Leon county, and at Thomas- 

 ville, in March and April, in pine woods. An immature specimen 

 taken in January has also been examined. 



This species appeared to be moderately common in the spring of 

 1903 in pine woods with many scrub oaks about. I found the imma- 

 ture specimens of this species plentiful throughout the winter months 

 in dead leaves under oak, hickory and sweet gum trees. (M. H.) 



Cliortophaga viridifasciata (DeGeer). 



This common species is represented by a series of ninety-two speci- 

 mens, the brown phase outnumbering the green form. The series 

 covers adult specimens taken in every month of the year. 



I have found this species late into December in colonies along the 

 edge of woods. (M. H.) 



Hippiscus phcBiiicopterus (Burmeister). 



The species is represented by specimens taken in May (27th) and 

 June (2d and 8th), 1903, at Thomasville. 



Hippiscus rugosus (Scudder). 



A single specimen taken at Thomasville on August 13, 1903, I have 

 referred to this species. It has, how^ever, cinnabar wings, but struc- 

 turally is inseparable from Pennsylvania specimens of rugosus. 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linnseus). 



This species is represented by specimens from Thomasville taken 

 May 25 and 26, June 8 and 12, and July 27, and from Metcalfe taken 

 September 17. One specimen taken July 27 is immature. 



Spharagemon boUi Scudder. 



A single male specimen of this species is included in the material 

 examined. It was taken at Thomasville, July 14, 1903. 



Spharagemon coUare wyomingianum (Thomas). 



A series of nine Thomasville specimens are assigned here with some 

 uncertainty. They agree with New Jersey specimens of wyomingiarium 

 except for the sharper fastigium, which also forms a more acute angle 

 with the face. Considerable color and minor structural variations 

 are exhibited by this series. The specimens were taken in June, July, 

 August and November. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 787 



Psinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



This sazid-loving species is represented by a series of eighteen speci- 

 mens taken on dates extending from June to November. 



I took one specimen of this species on November 30, a mature female 

 so battered and worn it could scarcely fly. (M. H.) 

 Trimerotropis citrina Scudder. 



This species which is here recorded from the Southeastern States for 

 the first time, is represented by a series of sixteen specimens taken at 

 Thomas ville and Metcalfe. May, June and September are the months 

 represented by the material studied. 

 Diotyophorus guttatus (StoU)." 



This large and striking species is fairly numerous in southern Georgia, 

 and attains full size by August. Several images taken in August, 

 September and October have been examined, one male being of small 

 size. Another comparatively small male from Brunswick, Glynn 

 county, Georgia, is in the collection of the Academy. 



I have found very young specimens of this species as early as the 

 first week in April. They were then in colonies of a dozen or more in 

 the pine woods. (M. H.) 



Stenaoris' cMorizans Walker. 



This cat-tail loving species is represented by several Thomasvillc 

 specimens and eight individuals from Leon county, Florida. The for- 

 mer series was taken on March 7, 1903, and March 25, 1904, the exact 

 locality being a large boggy meadow cut by numerous streams, formerly 

 covered by a dammed body of water locally known as Mitchell's Pond. 

 Several specimens were also noticed, but not taken, at a large pond sev- 

 eral miles north of Thomasville. The Leon county specimens were all 

 taken on the margins of a large pond in the extreme northern part of 

 the county, within half a mile of the Georgia line, on March 21, 1903, 

 and March 22, 1904. 



But four of the series examined have the white lateral line distinct, 

 the others being almost unicolorous, two, however, having the upper 

 surface suffused with rosaceous. 



I found this interesting species the most numerous among the cat- 

 tails growing in the deep water at the edge of the pond. When alarmed 



' It is evident that ^toll's Gryllus g^dtatus (Nahmrl. Afbeeld. Beschr. Zabel- 

 springhjnen, Treks pringhanen, Krekels en Kakkerlakken, p. 23, and Register, p. 

 12, PI. X.b, fig. 34) is the same as Thunberg's Dictyophorus relicidatus, and is two 

 years earlier. 



^ This generic name is revived in place of Arnilia Stal, which it antedates by 

 three years. It was proposed (Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., IV, p. 651, 1870) 

 for three species, lanceolata concolor and chlorizans the latter of which can 

 be selected as the type. 




788 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



it would at once fly swiftly and silently away to the stem of a cat-tail, 

 apparently in a safe place, and would then, when approached, dodge 

 around to the opposite side and remain motionless, pressing itself to 

 the stem, which I noticed would almost invariably be the same color 

 as itself. It could then be taken by a stealthy approach and a 

 quick grasp of the hand, for it seemed to rely on its resemblance to its 

 support and would not take wing unless alarmed by a quick movement 

 or a too close approach. When badly alarmed I noticed several speci- 

 mens fly up into the trees and hide on the small twigs, as they had before 

 done on the cat-tails. Not one of the species was to be found on the 

 brownish rushes where Leptysma was common, which latter species 

 was precisely the color of its surroundings. The flight of this species is 

 much stronger and more rapid than that of L. marginicolUs , and owing 

 to this fact and the locality in which it is found , it is quite difficult to take 

 a specimen when thoroughly alarmed. Those specimens seen on the 

 meadow where Mitchell's Pond had once been were afforded poor cover, 

 as the grass was short, and I noticed that they would almost always 

 take flight when I was still a number of feet distant, no matter how 

 cautiously I approached. (M. H.) 



Leptysma marginicolhs (Serville). 



This species, which is somew^hat similar in habit to the preceding, is 

 represented by specimens taken at Thomasville during March and in 

 Leon county on March 22, 1904. 



This species was most numerous among the dried rushes on the edge 

 of the pond in Leon county mentioned as the habitat of the preceding 

 species. The specimens were easily alarmed by a quick movement, but 

 could be easily approached and grasped if this was done in a slow and 

 careful manner. They were as well protected by their color on these 

 brown rushes as the S. chlorizans were with their bright green colora- 

 tion on the cat-tails whose stems were the same color; the latter species, 

 however, showed much less confidence in its concealment and was 

 much more difficult to approach. (M. H.) 

 Schistocerca americana (Drury). 



This elusive and powerful species is represented by eight specimens 

 taken at Thomasville in January, March, May, October and December. 

 Leon county is represented by specimens taken in March. 



Much of the time this species is common in the open pine woods. 

 Its flight is powerful and it usually takes refuge on the pine trunks 

 over eight feet from the ground. Its color blends remarkably with the 

 bark, and it, remaining motionless, with hind femora drawn closely to 

 the body ready to spring, does not take flight until closely approached. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 789 



Like the two preceding species, even the heaviest females fly well, and 

 I have never seen one jump except when in such close quarters that 

 flight was impossible. (M. H.) 



Schistoceroa damnifica (Saussure). 



An interesting series of fifty specimens of this species is included in 

 the material studied. The females are all larger than Northern speci- 

 mens, and have the median stripe of the pronotum more obscure. 

 The males, however, are very similar to New Jersey representatives, 

 except that the tegmina appear to be slightly longer. The material 

 comprises adults taken in every month in the year except August. 



The males of this species are active and are found common in the dead 

 leaves under scrub oaks, hickories, sweet gums and other trees in the 

 pine woods. They fly well and are so much the color of their surround- 

 ings that they are very hard to follow. The females are, on the other 

 hand, invariably large and unwieldy, and seem to find great difficulty 

 in even jumping, and they very seldom fly. (M. H.) 



Gymnoscistetes pusillus Scudder. 



This very peculiar species was found by Mr. Hebard to be fairly 

 common in one locality near Thomas ville, and a series of twenty-one 

 individuals, sixteen males and five females, are included in the series 

 studied. They are quite constant in size, but in a number of other 

 characters considerable variation is exhibited. The anterior and 

 posterior margins of the pronotum are truncate in some, emarginate 

 in others ; the number of spines on the external margins of the posterior 

 tibiae varies from eight to ten; the median carina of the pronotum is 

 quite distinct in some, absent in others, while the inferior portion of 

 the frontal costa varies greatly in the strength of the constriction. 

 Color is rather constant, such variation as is exhibited being in intensity 

 and not pattern. The females are uniformly lighter in color than the 

 males. 



The following color notes were made from a fresh male specimen: 

 Dark lateral bars seal brown, light lateral bars pale glaucous green be- 

 coming emerald-green on the meta- and mesopleura; dorsal surface 

 a semi-metallic drab becoming quite pale toward the dark lateral 

 bars; eyes of the same color as the dark lateral bars, obscurely spotted 

 with drab; antennae of the same color as the dorsal surface, strongly 

 suffused with blackish apically; limbs very pale yeflo wish-green 

 minutely blotched with umber. 



I took one specimen of this species in the wire-grass of the pine forest 

 near town on November 30, 1904, but although I searched the locality 




790 [proceedings of the academy of [Dct'-, 



carefully for several daj^s no more were taken. A short time later I 

 discovered a colony of this species in a similar situation on the river 

 road, about two miles from town. They were very difficult to capture, 

 as it took the most intent searching before a specimen could be found, 

 and even then it was by no means an easy matter to make the capture, 

 for these small grasshoppers are masters of the art of jumping. They 

 can jump so quickly that owing to their color the eye cannot follow 

 them, and the strangest thing is that they can jump in any direction 

 with such rapidity that it is w^holly impossible to see in which direction 

 they have gone. They jump from one tuft of wire-grass to the top of 

 another tuft and there cling tightly to the highest straw ready to make 

 another leap. Although they are so small I have seen them frequently 

 spring several feet. The females, although much heavier than the 

 males, are almost equally agile. This species has the habit of edging 

 around its support when approached and remaining motionless with 

 hind femora drawn close to the body. It can be seen, however, to 

 be w^atching that which has alarmed it most closely, and on the first 

 quick movement or on too near approach it jumps at once. (M. H.) 

 Melanoplus scudderi (Uhler). 



It was with considerable surprise that this species was recognized 

 in the collections, as the distribution of it is thus extended a consider- 

 able distance south w^ard. Six male and sixteen female specimens from 

 Thomas\ille have been examined, taken November 30, 1903, Decem- 

 ber 1, 3, 5, 6 and 10, 1903, and December 14, 1902. There is consider- 

 able variation in the coloration, some being unicolorous, others 

 sprinkled with small blackish dots and maculations. 



Color of live male: Thomasville, November 30, 1903; general colors 

 burnt umber and cinnamon mingled in a pepper-and-salt combination, 

 the paler tint predominating toward the lower surface ; lateral bar on 

 the upper part of the prozona seal brown ; posterior femora wdth the 

 external bars not very distinctly marked, the internal bars milky 

 pink and dull seal brown, the whole overcast with the general "pepper- 

 and-salt" suffusion; posterior tibiae scarlet vermilion; under surface 

 of the body and posterior femora gamboge yellow suffused anteriorly 

 and posteriorly with gra3^-brown, clear on the basal segments of the 

 abdomen. Female: color much as in the male, but the under surface 

 duller and the pronotum dorsally suffused with fawn color and the 

 lateral bar on the prozona rather indistinct; antennae reddish-brown, 

 grading from poppy red at the base to maroon apically. 



This species is moderately plentiful during the fall months in the 

 pine woods. Its color blends almost exactly with the pine needles, 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 791 



and it is for this reason that, although it is a slow species at taking 

 alarm and poor at jumping, it is sometimes hard to capture. (M. H.) 



Melanoplus sylvestris Morse. 



This recently described species is apparently represented by three 

 female specimens taken at Thomasville and Metcalfe in September, 

 November and December, 1903. The original specimens were all from 

 western North Carolina. Wlien compared with specimens of M. 

 islandicus, females of sylvestris can be separated by the precurrent 

 median carina of the pronotum, the broader metazona, the more pro- 

 nounced sulcation of the frontal costa, and the more quadrate interval 

 between the mesosternal lobes. 



Found in the same places as the preceding species, but more agile 

 and easily alarmed. Its coloration affords it even greater protection 

 than that of M. scudderi. (M. H.) 



Melanoplus nigrescens (Scudder). 



A series of fifteen males and seventeen females represents this large 

 and rather striking species. All the specimens are from Thomasville, 

 and were taken in November and December. Considerable variation 

 is exhibited in the shape of the cerci of the males. 



Color of live specimens: Female; Thomasville, November 30, 1903; 

 general color mummy brown, the "pepper-and-salt" effect caused by 

 a minute speckling of pale wood brown, postocular streak clear 

 mummy brown, eyes mars brown, antennae with the base wood 

 brown and the apical portion vandyke brown; tegmina with the 

 anal field clear wood brown, discoidal and costal regions mummy 

 brown; stripe on the metapleura and the paler bars on the hind 

 femora ecru drab, dark bars on the femora seal brown; posterior 

 tibiae blackish basally, dull maroon apically. Male; Thomasville, 

 November 30, 1903; general color clove-brown becoming dull umber 

 on the anal field of the tegmina ; lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 and lower part of head deep blue-gray blending into the general tint 

 of the upper surface; eyes mottled clove brown and wood brown; 

 stripe on metapleura and pale bars and spots on posterior femora 

 almost pure white, suffused slightly with grayish toward the dorsal 

 sm'face; dark bars on the posterior femora and base color of meso- 

 and metapleura solid black; anterior and median limbs similar to 

 the lower part of the head in color; posterior tibiae apically poppy red, 

 dull on the superior surface, basal portion blackish with a dull reddish- 

 pregenicular annulus; surface of the meso- and metasternum dull 

 glaucous green, of the under surface of the abdomen gamboge yellow. 




792 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



During November and December I have found this splendid species 

 in colonies among the pine woods. It preferred the vicinity of the 

 scrub oaks, and it was among these that I found a group of over a dozen 

 specimens of this species within the space of a few square yards. The 

 males seemed peculiarly unwary, and occasionally one would be almost 

 trodden before it would jump. Earlier in the season, during the warm 

 fall weather, they probably exhibited much greater activity, for I 

 noticed them to feel cold severely and the slightest cooler weather 

 would greatly thin their numbers. All the specimens I took were 

 probably at their prime several weeks earlier, and from this I conclude 

 that the best time to take this species is toward the latter part of 

 October and during early November. The females were more unwieldy 

 than the males but were very powerful. Both sexes, owing to the 

 shortness of their wings, were wholly unable to fly. (M. H.) 



Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas). 



This species is represented by a series of twenty males and twenty- 

 nine females taken at Thomasville in September, October, November 

 and December. The intensity of the coloration is quite variable. 



This species is found in the same locality and at the same time as 

 the preceding species, but in greater numbers. The males are much 

 smaller than the females, and are therefore less powerful, but they are 

 able to fly well and are occasionally quite shy. The females are usually 

 unable to fly at the time I was collecting as it was late in the season, 

 and all were more or less worn. (M. H.) 



Melanoplus clypeatus (Scudder). 



Four female specimens of this species from Thomasville, taken 

 August 3 and December 17, 1903, have been examined. They have 

 longer tegmina (22-22.5 mm.) than the female measured by Scudder. 



Melanoplus propinquus Scudder. 



This is the most abundant species of the genus at Thomasville, and 

 in consequence it is represented by a very large series — three hundred 

 and forty-eight in number. The months represented by the material 

 are January, INIay, June, July, August, Septeml^er. October and De- 

 cember. 



This species has almost the exact habits of its close northern ally, 

 M. femur-rubrum. It is found in great numbers in all open country 

 during the summer and fall and is quite plentiful even in the spring. 

 (M. H.) 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



This destructive species is represented by five male individuals 

 from Thomasville^ taken in April, July, October and December. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 793 



This species is common in the corn fields durins; warm weather. 

 (M. H.) 



Paroxya atlantioa Scudder. 



A series of thirteen specimens were taken at Thomasville and Tyty 

 Plantation in Jiuie, August, October and December. The males agree 

 very well ^^■ith two specimens of that sex, one from Ormond, Florida, 

 the other from Florida without further data. 



Found along the branches. (M. H.) 



Paroxya floridiana (Thomas). 



This marsh-loving species is abundant at Thomasville in late summer 

 and fall, and is represented by a Series of one hundred and sLxty-five indi- 

 viduals, taken in July, August, September and December. Consider- 

 able variation in color is exhibited by this assemblage, as is usual in 

 the species, but the extremes are connected by numbers of intermedi- 

 ates. 



Found in great abundance along all streams and in all damp spots 

 during the warm weather. I took quite a series of tattered specimens 

 of this species in a sheltered spot along the edge of a branch in Decem- 

 ber, 1903. (M. H.) 



Aptenopedes sphenarioides Scudder. 



This beautiful and common species is found usually in the pine woods 

 among the dead needles and wire-grass. The series comprises two 

 hundred and fifty-six specimens, about ecpially divided between the 

 sexes. The months represented by the material are January, Febru- 

 ary, March, April, June, August, September, October, November and 

 December. The species was observed in Leon county in the latter 

 part of March. Some individuals possess but one tegmen, and in a 

 few individuals both tegmina are missing. This latter condition ap- 

 pears to be abnormal, as the specimens are otherwise inseparable, 

 and are cpiite distinct from a specimen of aptera from Miami, Florida. 

 After comparing the types of A. clara Rehn^ with individuals of 

 sphenarioides, the former is seen to be immediately distinguishable by 

 the peculiar cerci. Two color phases are present, one purplish-brown, 

 the other a rich paris green. The following notes have been made from 

 living adult specimens. Green phase: female; Thomasville, November 

 30, 1903; general color paris green, on the under surface becoming pale 

 and on the sides of the abdomen suffused with whitish; eyes mummy 

 brown; antennae dull crimson, infuscate apically; lateral line on the 

 pronotum and tegmina composed of two colors, above peach blossom 



* Enf. News, XIII, p. 14. 

 51 




794 PR0CEEDIXG3 OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



pink, below blackish; lower margin of the pronotum very narrowly 

 lined with white; anterior and median femora of the body color; tibiae 

 dull crimson; posterior femora with the lateral face of the body color, 

 darkest above; inferior carina white, superior carina bicolor similar 

 to the tegmina, genicular arches black; posterior tibia? glaucous blue, 

 spines whitish with the tips black. Green phase: male; Thomas ville, 

 November 30, 1903; general color of the upper surface paris green 

 becoming apple green on the sides and under surface; eyes mummy 

 brown finely sprinkled with wood brown; lateral lines practically the 

 same colors as in the female, except that the rosy tint is paler on the 

 pronotum than on the tegmina; abdomen with the median portion 

 dull salmon flanked with pure black, the latter carrying a small white 

 spot at the apical margin of each segment; in other respects similar 

 to the female. 



Brown phase: female; Thomasville, November 30, 1903; general 

 color of the dorsal surface broccoli brown, overcast with an irregular 

 hoary suffusion of ecru drab, this being limited to the median portions 

 of the segments on the abdomen; lateral lines much as in the green 

 phase, but more subdued and the usual pinkish stripe on the tegmina 

 rather brownish; face, eyes, gcnse, lateral lobes of the pronotum, 

 pleura and external faces of the posterior femora, as well as the anterior 

 and median limbs, vandyke brown obscurely scrumbled with broccoli 

 brown ; lower margin of the pronotum and lower carina of the external 

 face of the posterior femora whitish; posterior tibiae maroon. Brown 

 phase: male; Thomasville, November 30, 1903; general color much as 

 in the female, but the hoary suffusion weaker; lateral line well marked 

 and more ecru than pinkish; pronotum with the blackish tint weak; 

 the inferior external carinse of the posterior femora with a broken white 

 line; superior face of posterior femora scrumbled wood brown; an- 

 tennae whitish. Nymph ; November 30, 1903 ; general color wood 

 brown obscurely lined and spotted with mummy brown; upper portion 

 of lateral lobes of the pronotum and postocular region blackish. 



I have always found this species prevalent except during the cold 

 weather of late December, January and the greater part of February. 

 This species is to be found almost everj^vhere in the pine woods, but 

 is more abundant where the wire-grass-grows heaviest near the 

 "branches." The males are very active, springing wdth alacrity and 

 often alighting on weed stalks and vines a foot or more above the 

 ground, where they remain motionless but watchful, ready to spring 

 to another place if approached. The females, being much heavier, are 

 less spry, but nevertheless sometimes difficult to capture. (M. H.) 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 795 



Family TETTIGONID^. 

 Arethaea phalangium (Scudder). 



A single male individual of this species was taken at Thomasville, 

 June 29, 1903. 



Scudderia texensis Saussure and Pictet. 



This is the commonest species of the genus in the vicinity of Thomas- 

 ville, and it is represented by a series of twenty-eight specimens repre- 

 senting both sexes. They were taken in May, June, July, September 

 and October. 

 Scudderia furcata Brunner. 



One female and three male specimens represent this species. They 

 were taken at Thomasville in the second week of October and Decem- 

 ber 14, 1903. 



The specimen taken in December was beaten from gall-berry bushes 

 in the pine woods, and was in a battered condition. (M. H.) 

 Scudderia cuneata Morse. 



This recently described species is represented by two male individ- 

 uals taken at Thomasville, on August 17 and September 10, 1903. 

 This record extends the range of the species east of the type locality — 

 Alabama. 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia (DeGeer). 



This species is represented by four Thomasville specimens, two males, 

 two females, taken July 29, August 4, S and 26, 1903. The males 

 have the tympanum of the tegmina narrower than in Maryland, Dela- 

 ware and Pennsylvania specimens of the species, but nevertheless 

 do not appear separable. 



Amblycorypha uhleri Stil. 



One male and one female representative of this species have been 

 examined, both taken at Thomasville, one on July 16, 1903, the other 

 in the second week of October, 1903. 



Belocephalus subapterus Scudder. 



One female specimen of this species was taken at Thomasville, 

 August 24, 1903. This is the first record outside of the State of Florida. 

 Conocephalus atlanticus Brunner. 



A series of three males of this species from Thomasville have been 

 examined. They were taken September 12, 15 and 17, 1903, and on 

 comparison with paratypes prove inseparable. 

 Conocephalus retusus Scudder. 



A single female taken at Thomasville, September 17, 1903, is referred 

 to this species. The specimen has the tegmina and ovipositor slightly 




796 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



longer than Scudder's original measurements, but the specimen appears 



to belong here. 



Conocephalus mexicanus Saussure. 



Two female specimens of this species were taken at ThomasA'ille, 

 December 3, 1903, in undergrowth in pine woods, and on ]\Iarch 10, 

 1904. 



Both specimens taken were in good condition; the first was taken 

 among the dead brown leaves of a hickor}^ in the pine woods, where it 

 was very conspicuous on account of its bright green color. (M. H.) 



Conocephalus fuscostriatus Redtenbacher. 



Three male Thomasville specimens of this species have been exam- 

 ined. One is without date, the others were taken March 16 and April 

 4, 1904, and all are typical representatives of the species. 



This species appeared early in March and was soon plentiful in the 

 woods, especially in the broom sedge in damp locations. The speci- 

 mens, when pursued, always took to wing and made off with a strong 

 but zigzag flight, never alighting until quite a distance had been tra- 

 versed. I followed one specimen for several hundred yards across a 

 field and finally lost sight of it, as it had flown up until some forty feet 

 above the ground, and could not be followed by the eye in the twilight. 

 The males begin their serenade just as dusk begins to fall and keep up 

 a continuous zeeeee late into the night. Their song is, however, not 

 nearly so ear-splitting as that of C. mexicanus. (M. H.) 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister). 



This large species is represented by a series of thirty-one individuals 

 representing both sexes. They are all from Thomasville, taken in 

 August and September, 1903. A considerable amount of variation 

 is exhibited in the intensity of the brown markings on the pronotum. 



Orchelimum nitidum (Redtenbacher). 



A series of fifty-seven specimens of both sexes represents this species. 

 They are all from Thomasville, taken in August and September, 1903. 

 The remark made under 0. glaberrimum regarding markings on the 

 pronotum applies with equal force to this species. 



Orchelimum nigripes Scudder. 



A single female of this species was taken at Thomasville on August 

 4, 1903. This is the first record for the Gulf States. 



Orchelimum cuticulare Serville ? 



A single male intli^'idual, taken at Thomasville on August 28, 1903, is 

 very doubtfully referred to this species. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 797 



Xiphidion fasciatum (DeGeer). 



This widely distributed species is represented by a series of ninety- 

 five specimens, all from Thomasville. The months represented are 

 June, August, September, October and December (one specimen), 1903. 



I took but one specimen of this species, that in December, 1903. It 

 was procured among tall grass in a swampy hollow. (M. H.) 



Xiphidion brevipenne Scudder. 



Three females and four males of this species from Thomasville have 

 been examined. They were taken in August, September, October 

 and December, 1903. 



The single specimen of this species which I took in December, 1903, 

 was secured in the damp undergrowth of the pine woods near a 

 "branch." (M. H.) 



Xiphidion saltans Scudder. 



Two females and five males of this species are included in the mate- 

 rial studied. They were taken at Thomasville in September, October 

 and November, 1903, the one taken in the latter month being from 

 meadow land. 



Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse. 



This recently described genus and species is represented by a series 

 of twenty males and twenty-two females, all from Thomasville, taken 

 in September, October, November and December, 1903. Those indi- 

 viduals bearing information in addition to the date and locality are 

 labelled as having been taken in imdergrowth in pine woods. The 

 series agrees very well with the description, exhibiting the color varia- 

 tion noted in the original series. 



The specimens which I took of this species were all captured in the 

 wire-grass of the pine woods. Although active, they were easily cap- 

 tured. (M. H.) 



A male specimen of this species from Brunswick, Glynn county, 

 Georgia, taken September, ISSl, is in the collection of the Academy. 



Atlanticus gibbosus Scudder. 



As far as can be determined from the very inadequate description 

 and the immature condition of the majority of the twelve specimens 

 examined, I should refer the representatives of this genus to gibbosus. 

 But one individual, a female, is fully grown, the others being in such 

 condition as make them almost useless for study. The dates repre- 

 sented are March 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 and 29 April 9, July 23 (adult) and 

 December 10, all from Thomasville. 



In December, March and April I have found immature individuals 

 of this species plentiful in the pine woods, where they live among the 




798 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [UeC, 



wire-grass. I found many in the locality which yielded the large series 

 ofGymnoscirtetes pusillus. (M. H.) 

 Ceuthophilus virgatipes n. sp. 



Types: cJ* and ? ; Thomasville, Thomas county, Georgia. August 

 13, 1903. Collection of Morgan Hebard. 



Closely allied to C. secretus Scudder, but differing in the longer 

 median internal calcaria and the much shorter ovipositor. Relation- 

 ship also exists with C. varicator Scudder, but that species has the 

 first tarsal joint as long as the others united, as well as having a long 

 ovipositor. 



Size medium; body compressed. Head with the occiput declivent, 

 vertex somewhat flattened; interspace between the eyes equal to the 

 long diameter of one of them; ej^es inverted subpyriform; antennae 

 rather short and rather heavy, but slightly longer than the body; 

 terminal palpal joint distinctly longer than the third. Pronotum 

 strongly compressed ; anterior margin wnth a slight median emargina- 

 tion, posterior margin truncate ; lateral lobes slightly longer than high, 

 inferior margin moderately arcuate, the anterior angle by no means as 

 apparent as the posterior; surface of the pronotum as well as the 

 mesonotum and metanotum obscurely tuberculate, more pronounced 

 in the female than in the male. Abdomen strongly compressed, the 

 exposed portion of each segment roughened and picked. Cerci short, 

 thick basally, tapering. Ovipositor short, thick basally, apical half 

 subequal, margins almost straight, superior angle produced into a dis- 

 tinct spiniform process, internal valves with five apical spines. Ante- 

 rior femora a third as long again as the pronotum, armed on the ante- 

 rior inferior margin with 3-0 spines, unarmed on the posterior margin. 

 Median femora about equal to the anterior in length, armed on the 

 anterior margin with three spines which are larger in the female than 

 in the male, and increase in size distally, posterior margin armed with 

 two or three spines. Posterior femora thick and short, strongly bullate, ■ 

 the apical third slender, inferior margins with irregularly disposed 

 serrations, intervening sulcus comparatively broad; posterior femora 

 distinctly more than a tenth longer than the femora, not bowled, spurs 

 large, median calcaria extremely long, the internal equalling the meta- 

 tarsus; second and fourth tarsal joints subequal, third decidedly less 

 than half the length of second; metatarsus shorter than the other 

 joints united. 



General color cinnamon overlaid with bistre, the superior surface 

 of the posterior femora with distinct diagonal bars of the two tints; 

 under surface wdth little of the overlying tint. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 799 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 14.2 mm. 19.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.2 " 6 " 



Length of posterior femora, 13.5 " 17.2 " 



Length of posterior tibisp, 15 " 19 " 



Length of ovipositor, 7.2 " 



A series of nine specimens of this species, inckiding the types, has 

 been studied. 



As all the specimens of this species were collected in my absence 

 from home, I can only state that they were taken in a heavy swamp. 

 (M. H.) 



Family GRYLLID^ 

 Gryllotalpa borealis Burmeister. 



Several specimens of this species from Thomasville have been exam- 

 ined, taken March 25, August 31 and September 11, 1903. An indi- 

 vidual was taken just over the line in Leon county, Florida, on March 

 17, 1903, in a very peculiar situation — a distance up a cherry tree. 

 Tridactylus terminalis Scudder. 



Two individuals of this species were taken at Linton's Pond, near 

 Thomasville, one on March 18, and the other April 10, 1904. The 

 exact locality was a sloping sandy beach constantly dampened by 

 the flow of several springs, situated in an overhanging bank and close 

 to a stream. 



Diligent search revealed two other specimens of this species, but 

 owing to the absence of a net at the time they readily escaped. (M. H.) 



EUipes minuta (Scudder). 



This species was found in several places in the vicinity of Thomasville 

 and in Leon county. The locations are moist meadow land or sandy 

 beaches, and here this active little species was very numerous. At 

 Linton's Pond it was taken on April 10, and in northern Leon county 

 on ]\Iarch 22. Nine specimens have been examined. 

 Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder ? 



A single male specimen is questionably referred to this species. It 

 was taken at Thomasville, August 13, 1903. The condition of the 

 specimen is such that accurate identification is impossible, but the 

 description of squamosum contains nothing radically different from 

 the specimen examined. 

 Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 



This species is represented by a scries of fifteen individuals of both 

 sexes, taken at Thomasville. The months represented are June, July, 




800 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dt'C, 



August, September, October, November and December. As is usual 

 with the species of this genus a great amoiuit of variation in size is 

 noticed in the series. 



All the specimens of this species which I took were captured among 

 the weeds of an unused field and in the grass in our yard. The males 

 stridulate continually, and their constant creeee-creee-creee may be 

 heard from every side on a warm day. This species fills the place 

 which is occupied by Nemobius fasciatus in the North. (M. H.) 



Nemobius socius Scudder. 



This sti iking form is represented b}' one male and ten female speci- 

 mens, all taken at Thomasville in Ma}', June, July and September. 

 But two of the specimens are brachypterous, the other nine possessing 

 caudate wings. 



These specimens were collected at night about the arc lights, to which 

 they were attracted by the light. (M. H.) 



Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



The beautiful but subdued coloring of the male of this species makes 

 it an easily recognized form, and a series of thirty individuals of both 

 sexes have been examined. They were taken at Thomasville in Febru- 

 ary, March, April, October, November and December. In the spring 

 of 1903 several individuals were taken in Leon count}^ There is some 

 variation in the depth of color in the females, ranging from dull black- 

 ish to blackish brown and umber. 



This beautiful species is ever present, lacing astir on the coldest 

 winter days. I heard one specimen stridulating in the pine straw on a 

 morning when the mercury had just risen above freezing. The sound 

 produced by the males is quite different from that of any other species, 

 but it would be indeed difficult to describe the pitch which makes it so. 

 (M. H.) 



Nemobius cubensis Saussure. 



This species, which bears quite a superficial resemblance to N. socius, 

 is represented in the collection by five specimens, one male and four 

 females, the male individual being referred here with a little doubt. 

 All the specimens were taken in May and June, 1903, at Thomasville. 

 Nemobius exiguus Blatchley. 



It was with considerable surprise that this species was recognized 

 in the material studied, but a series of forty-seven specimens appear 

 to be perfectly referable to this species, previously known only from 

 Indiana. Thomasville individuals were taken in January, February 

 and December, and one specimen was collected at the Ocklockonee 

 river on March 29, 1904. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 801 



This species was very plentiful in certain localities in the pine woods 

 along the branches, where the ground was low and marshy. The series 

 of forty-seven could easily have been doubled. (M. H.) 



Nemobius carolinus Scudder. 



Thirteen specimens, five males and eight females, represent this 

 beautiful species. They were all taken at Thomasville in December 

 on sphagnum. 



All of these specimens were taken at Thomasville during December 

 in beds of sphagnum. The specimens were wary, and when in danger 

 would hide in the sphagnum, from which they could then be easily 

 taken. The bright lacquer color of the head, legs and body of these 

 distinguished them at a glance from all other species. (M. H.) 



Gryllus pennsylvanicus Burmeister. 



Four specimens of this species are contained in the collection, two 

 males and two females, from Thomasville, taken on August 29, 1903. 



Gryllus rubens Scudder. 



This species, which was described from a single female individual 

 from Auburn, Alabama, is represented by a series of sixty specimens, 

 almost equally divided between the sexes. They are all from Thomas- 

 ville, taken in July and August; one immature individual, however, 

 having been taken in March. A great amount of variation is exhibited 

 in the intensity of the color pattern, some individuals having the dull 

 reddish markings on the lateral portions of the pronotum obsolete, 

 and the red on the posterior femora is more extensive in some individu- 

 als than in others. 

 Gryllus luctuosus Serville. 



Specimens of this species from Thomasville, taken in ]\Iay and June, 

 1903, have been examined. 



(Ecanthus quadripunctatus Bentenmiiller. 



This species is represented by a series of one hundred and twenty- 

 two specimens from Thomasville. The months represented are June, 

 September and October. Considerable variation is exhibited in the 

 pattern and intensity of the black markings on the basal joints of the 

 antennae. 



Anaxipha exigua (Say). 



Three specimens of this species, one male, two females, have been 

 examined, all taken at Thomasville in April and July. The females 

 are slightly larger than Pennsylvania specimens. 




802 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Falcicula hebardi Rehn. 



This interesting species is represented by a series of fifteen males, ten 

 females and four immature individuals. The months represented are 

 March, April and July. The immature individuals are considerably 

 darker and more wine-colored than the adults, and are longitudinally 

 striped with dark brown which gives them a rather peculiar appearance. 



This species, although restricted to colonies among the wire-grass 

 of the pine woods, may be taken in numbers at the right time of year. 

 Although very active and resembling the wire-grass closely in color, 

 they are easy to capture with the aid of a net. I noticed them to jump 

 from clump to clump of the grass, clinging to the topmost blades. 

 Both sexes are equally agile. (M. H.) 

 Hapithus brevipennis Saussure. 



This species, which was described from Georgia and Louisiana, is 

 represented by three adult males, two adult females and three imma- 

 ture individuals from Thomasville. The months represented are July, 

 August and October. The males have the stripe on the margin of the 

 dorsal field much more richly colored than in the females. 

 Orocharis gryllodes (Pallas). 



This beautiful species is represented by a series of four male and seven 

 female specimens, taken at Thomasville in December, 1903. One 

 female individual is uniformly colored as in the males, but the others 

 are sprinkled with umber. This species is easily separated from 0. 

 saltator by the broader and subequal pronotum and the greater number 

 of rami of the mediastine vein. 



All of these specimens were taken from under sign boards on oak 

 trees, where they were evidently hibernating. On one occasion several 

 specimens were taken from under the same sign. (M. H.) 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF EARTHWORM (DIPLOCARDIA LONGA) 



FROM GEORGIA. 



BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Forming part of a small collection of earthworms gathered by Mrs. 

 T. W. Walker in Pulaski county, Georgia, and secured for the Academy 

 through the interest of Mr. Joseph Willcox, are seven specimens of a 

 hitherto unnoticed species of Diplocardia. Its most distinctive feature 

 is found in the coexistence of the second gizzard and the first pair of 

 spermathecffi in the same somite, in which respect it is unique among 

 known species of the genus. In the presence of the gizzards in somites 

 VI and VII it resembles D. michaelseni, but differs from that species 

 in the possession of three pairs of spermathecse. The latter character 

 and numerous others which appear in the following description evi- 

 dently ally it to the communis group, but the great number of segments, 

 high level of the nephridial openings, form of the spermathecfe, etc., 

 are diagnostic. 



Diplocardia longa n. sp. 



Size of D. covimunis; length in moderate extension up to 275 mm. ; 

 diameter at VII 5 mm., behind the clitellum 4 mm. Number of seg- 

 ments 270 to 330. Form slender, terete throughout ; diameter increas- 

 ing to VII, then diminishing to the clitellum which is slightly enlarged 

 and prominent, then narrowing a little and remaining nearly uniform 

 to near the end, where a slight club-shaped enlargement precedes a 

 final shrinkage to the anal ring. 



Prostomium very short, broad and nearly truncate, in most speci- 

 mens scarcely projecting beyond the peristomium into which it is 

 tenoned for about one-half the length of the latter. The exact form, 

 however, differs in the several specimens ; in some the two sides nearly 

 meet within the peristomium; in others they are more nearly parallel 

 and may be continued by grooves nearly to the posterior border of the 

 latter, or they may merge into transverse grooves. Both prostomium 

 and peristomium are much marked above with longitudinal wrinkles 

 and the former has a deep ventral furrow. 



The somites increase in length to VII, and then diminish to about 

 one-half in the postclitellial region, after which they change but Httle 




804 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



till the posterior end is approached. Somites II and III are simple; 

 IV is biannulate, with the furrow just behind the setse and consequently- 

 nearer to the posterior margin; V has a median setigerous annulus 

 partially cut off from the larger annulus. The remaining preclitellial 

 segments are conspicuously triannulate, the middle or setigerous annu- 

 lus being the narrowest but most prominent. Occasionally the first 

 annulus is again subdivided into two. When the clitellum is present, 

 as in most of the specimens, the segments of this region are smooth 

 and undivided, dorsally at least, but in immature worms the annula- 

 tion appears here also. In all but the most posterior of the postclitellial 

 somites also the triannular structure is apparent, but is generally in- 

 conspicuous except in the more anterior ones or those strongly con- 

 tracted. 



The usual four pairs of setse are present on all somites except the 

 peristomium, a few preanal, and XIX, the latter of which lacks the 

 ventral pairs only. All are strictly paired and strongly ventral in 

 position, but the intervening spaces vary somewhat. On XVI the 

 setal formula is a-b < j a-a, a-a= 2 J c-d, a-b = %c-d, b-c < a-a, d-d = 

 about f semi-circumference. Ordinary seta? stout, sigmoid, blunt- 

 pointed, thickened distad of middle, the outer end slightly sculptured 

 with a reticulum of fine lines giving to the setse an appearance of being 

 covered with delicate scales. Spermathecal copulatory setse (the 

 ventral ones on VII, VIII and IX) similar but with much bolder sculp- 

 turing and apparently unaccompanied by special glands. Penial setse 

 (the ventral ones on XVIII and XX) capillary, tapering, somewhat 

 thickened within the body-walls, with slight sinuous curvatures, 

 especially near the end, which may be slightly hooked. They are 

 about twice as long, or somewhat more, than the ordinary setse, and 

 only -I" to 1^ as thick. Near the end is a sculptured region marked with 

 close transverse lines appearing as fine notches on the profiles, but the 

 end itself for a considerable distance is smooth or longitudinally 

 striated. 



Dorsal pores begin at ^ or usually j^-^ and are conspicuous. The 

 position of the nephridiopores is remarkable in being widely removed 

 from the dorsalmost seta; while the former are situated at approxi- 

 mately the two ends of the transverse diameter of the body the latter 

 are fully 15° to 30° below these points. Successive nephridiopores 

 are usually alternately at a little higher and lower level and are on the 

 extreme anterior borders of the somites — almost in the furrows — the 

 first on III. Spermathecal pores are less easily found. They occur 

 in line with seta a on the anterior part of somites VII, VIII and LX, 

 and are consequently presetal and postseptal. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 805 



Though present in all but one, the clitcllum is perfect!}^ developed 

 only in the largest specimen. It covers seven segments, XIII to XIX 

 inclusive, and is completely annular and of uniform thickness on the 

 first five, but interrupted or much thinner on the middle ventral region 

 of the last two. On the posterior clitellial and several of the immedi- 

 ately succeeding segments occur certain papillae and grooves utilized 

 during copulation. Two pairs of papillse, situated on the posterior 

 part of XVII or on -^^ and on the posterior part of XX or -f ^, are 

 constant on all of the specimens ; a third pair situated on XXI or ^j^^^ 

 is complete in one specimen, represented by a median papilla in one, 

 by the left only in three specimens, by the right only in one, and is 

 totally absent in the seventh, in which, however, indistinct thickened 

 areas appear in the median field of ™j and ^gj\. In one specimen a 

 small median papilla is present on XVII between those of the pair. 

 When the papillse overlap the contiguous iDorders of two segments, 

 which is the normal condition, the affected furrows are obliterated 

 ventrally. In most cases the first pair of papillae are much the largest 

 and the third the smallest, but in this respect also they are variable. 

 All of the papillffi are low, broad disks of an irregular elliptical or some- 

 times circular form. The central portion is more translucent and 

 either elevated or depressed above the more opaque, firmer rim which 

 contains a circle of glands. The entire structure of these papillse 

 indicates that in addition to a secretory adhesive function of the rim 

 the center acts as a true vacuum sucker. Just anterior and posterior 

 to each pair of suckers transverse grooves usually extend across the 

 venter and other shorter and less constant ones may occur. Very con- 

 stant and conspicuous are a pair of longitudinal grooves reaching in the 

 line of the ventral seta from the middle of XVIII to the middle of XX. 

 Each groove consists of three parts: a short anterior section reaching 

 from the setaj of XVIII to the furrow ^x^x^, a longer middle section 

 extending for the entire length of XIX, and a short posterior section 

 completing the groove to the setae of XX. All three sections are 

 strongly curved, the anterior and posterior with the convexity outward., 

 the middle with the convexity directed inward. At the point of junc- 

 tion of the anterior and middle sections, in the furrow ^xix"' ^'^^' g^'oo'^'^ 

 enlarges into a small triangular sinus containing a minute papilla upon 

 which the male pore opens. This is perhaps situated rather more on 

 XIX than XVIII. At each end of the groove and just external to the 

 closely approximated penial setse of somites XVIII and XX are the 

 external openings of the two pairs of prostate glands, the secretion of 

 which is therefore brought to the sperm by means of this groove. Tl.c 




808 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



female pores are situated close together between the ventral setae of 

 XIV, but a-c invisible in surface views. 



*- No complete coelomic septa exist anterior to ^j , this space being 

 largely occupied by the radiating pharyngeal muscles; ~^^ is slightly 

 thickened, y^^ and ^jj about twice as thick, and ^j^^j to -Jj each about 

 fom- times as thick as ordinary septa and extremely muscular. From 



VT VIII 



vn *^ IX" *^^^ septa are strongly funnel-shaped and "nested." The 

 pharynx occupies III and IV, a short oesophagus X, the strongly mus- 

 cular gizzards VI and VII ; then follows a straight narrow canal which 

 appears to lack calciferous pouches, but is slightly enlarged with yel- 

 lowish, thickened and very vascular walls in the posterior part of X 

 and presents a similar' but less pronounced structure in XI. The true 

 sacculated intestine begins in XVIII. The anus is a wide vertical 

 slit. The brain is transverse, about five times as wide as long, without 

 median constriction or any lobing, and is situated in II. The ventral 

 cord is remarkable for the complete and extremely thick muscular 

 sheath, which equals h the diameter of the cord proper at a ganglionic 

 enlargement. Although present in other species of Diplocardia, the 

 muscular sheath is in this one thicker than usual. Apparently there 

 are no peculiarities of the vascular system. Unlike the type species 

 the dorsal vessel is single and undivided throughout in the three exam- 

 ples dissected. Strongly enlarged hearts occur in XIII, and a slightly 

 enlarged pair in XII. The nephridia begin in III, and appear to be 

 present in every succeeding somite. Except for the first five pairs, 

 which are more compactly coiled and of smaller size, they have the 

 long-looped form described for other species of the genus. 



Three pairs of spermathecse exist in the anterior parts of somites 

 VII, VIII and IX, attached to th? body floor at the base of the corre- 

 sponding septa, behind which they rise freely to a high level, though 

 occasionally they pass through the neural arch of the 

 septum nto the preceding somite. All of the sperma- 

 thecse have the pouch and stalk very distinctly differ- 

 entiated and 'are especially characterized by the great 

 length of the latter and the very low position of the 

 diverticulum which arises from its lateral s'de at the 

 point at which it enters the body wall. The pouch 

 has in general the form shown in fig. 1, which represents 

 the second spermatheca, and in all of the specimens 

 examined is strongly flattened latera ly. The stalk is 

 Fio-. 1 ^ ^^ \esLSt as long as and usually longer than the pouch, 

 £.nd also more or ?ess flattened by the pressure of the 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



807 



neighboring organs. The flat, spreading diverticulum opens into the 

 base of the stalk by a short, narrow duct. In three specimens dis- 

 sected the pouch increases in size successively from the first to the 

 third spermatheca and the diverticulum diminishes correspondingly. 

 While completely divided into two or even three lobes in the first, 

 the latter is in the second and third cither simple or very faintly 

 bilobed. 



The testes occupy the usual position in somites X and XI, and two 



IX 



pairs of sperm sacs are borne on the anterior face of septum ^ and 

 the posterior face of septum ^. The latter are much and deeply 

 lobulated, having the aspect of dense tufts of broadly clavate or stalked 

 spheroidal bodies. The sperm funnels lie in somites X and XI attached 

 to the posterior septa near the coelomic floor and close to the ventral 

 nerve cord. They are of simple form and consist chiefly of a pair of 

 broad lobes partly folded together like the two lobes of a Dioncea leaf. 

 After penetrating the septa the vasa deferentia plunge at once into the 

 longitudinal muscular layer of the body wall which they penetrate 

 to a depth of about i of its thickness, and continue at this level in 

 the line of the ventral setae to a point near the male gonopore, when 

 they bend sharply outward toward the surface. Throughout their 

 course the two vasa deferentia of each side lie side by side, but are 

 perfectly distinct untfl quite at the external orifice, where they coalesce 

 at a common opening. The ovaries are conspicuous, fimbriated, fan- 

 shaped structures consisting of numerous 

 chains of ova attached to the posterior face 

 of septum -xin- Trumpet-shaped oviducts, 

 the mouths of which are formed very much 

 like the sperm funnels, perforate the septum 

 -^^, and at once penetrate the body floor 

 obliquely backward and inward. Near the 

 fxternal surface they bend sharply toward 

 the median line and open in the setae zone on 

 the ventral surface of XIY, separated by an 

 interval of about j a-a or less than the 

 transverse diameter of the nerve cord with 

 its sheath. The external pores are so 

 small that they can be detected only n sec- 

 tions. The prostate glands (fig. 2) are large 

 and conspicuous, and are variously folded 

 sharply back and forth evcral times within 

 the limits of the single segments XVIII 




808 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and XX which the two pairs respectively occupy. The glandular 

 portion and the muscular duct are sharply differentiated, and the 

 latter arises directly from the end of the former. The former is 

 about three times as thick and three and one-half times as long as 

 the latter, cylindrical and tubular, with a distinct lumen throughout 

 and thick walls composed of gland cells in various stages of activity. 

 The integuments are translucent and the colors dull in life. The 

 anterior and usually the extreme posterior ends are hair brown, varying 

 in shade ; the clitellum is russet, and the remainder of the body neai-ly 

 salmon pink or sometimes ecru. Through the less pigmented portions 

 of the skin the blood vessels show conspicuously of a deep purple color. 

 These worms are very sluggish, but may be stimulated to greater ac- 

 tivity by exposure to light, which they seek to avoid. They ovcur 

 in moi-;t sandy soil. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIE^■CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 809 



NEW CLAUSILIID^ OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE— X. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In this tenth^ article upon Japanese Clausiliidce, the species discov- 

 ered by Mr. Nakada in the Ryiikyu Islands and by Mr. Azuma in 

 Satsiima and its islands, are dealt with, together with a few forms from 

 other parts of the empire. The two collectors mentioned, working 

 under ^Ir. Hirase's direction, have about doubled the number of land 

 mollusks known from the Ryukyu Islands. Tokunoshima has proved 

 particularly rich. The transition from the Ryukyuan fauna to that 

 of Japan proper is found in Yakujima and Tanegashima, Osumi, and 

 in the Koshikijima group, south of Satsuma. In these islands there 

 is a strong Ryukj^ian strain, but the Kyushu faunal element predomi- 

 nates. 



In the Ryukyu group the Clausiliidce are present in abundance. 

 Except Stereophcedusa, none of the Japanese groups are represented, 

 the species I formerly referred to Hemiphcedusa being so far specialized 

 that thoy may more properly be segregated as separate groups. Luchu- 

 phcedusa and the Zaptychoid forms predominate. Some of them are 

 wonderfully specialized. Diceratoptyx, for instance, has almost lost 

 the lunella, which remains as a minute vestige only; the lower palatal 

 plica has been crowded upward, and its place taken by the dilated 

 subcolumellar lamella. Oligozaptyx and some Luchuphsedusas are 

 almost ec|ually modified in other directions. As a whole, the Clau- 

 siliidce are more specialized than those of either China or Japan, 

 and bear out the proposition I have elsewhere advanced, that insular 

 faunas age more rapidly than those of larger or continental areas. 



HeMIPH.EDUSOID PHYLUM. 

 Section MEGALOPH.EDUSA Bttg. 



Clausilia ducalis rex n. subsp. 



Larger and especially wider throughout than C. ducalis; superior 

 lamella contiguous to the spiral lamella, but not united with it; prin- 



* Seven papers haA'e appeared under the title "Additions to the Japanese 

 Land Snail Fauna," Parts II to VIII; one as "Catalogue of Clausiliidte of the 

 Japanese Empire," and one, "Land Mollusks of the Loo Choo Islands, Clau- 

 siliidse." All were published in these Proceedings, 1900 to 1903. 



52 




810 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



cipal plica short; upper palatal plica short but well developed, a low 

 ridge (lunella) below it. 



Length 42, diam. 9 mm. ; whorls 11. 



Length 39, diam. 9 mm.; whorls 10. 



Amagisan, Izu. Types No. 85,730, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,139 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Clausilia cymatodes n. sp. PI. LIV, figs. 29, 30, 31, 32, 33. 



Shell rimate, strong, the last two whorls of about equal diameter, 

 occupying over half the length of the shell, those above rapidly taper- 

 ing, somewhat attenuate toward the apex. Yellowish-brown. 



Surface glossy, sculptured with coarse strong somewhat irregular 

 ribs, rapidly decreasing to striae on the spire, the early whorls smooth 

 from wear. Whorls 10^, convex, the last flattened laterally. The 

 aperture is rhombic-ovate, vertical. Peristome continuous, rather 

 broadly reflexed and thickened within. Superior lamella marginal, 

 rather high, continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates to a 

 point above the superior lamella. Inferior lamella low and receding, 

 thick below, obliquely ascending, as long inside as the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging. Principal plica dorsal and lateral, 

 extending past the palatal plicae, of which there are three, lateral in 

 position. 



Length 22, diam. 5 mm. 



Length 21, diam. 4.7 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LIV, figs. 29, 30, 31) narrow and parallel-sided, obtuse 

 and obliquely rounded at the apex, bluntly angular in the middle of 

 the palatal margin, not excised near the filament. 



Tajiromura, Osumi. Types No. 87,610, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,249 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This rib-striate little Megalophcedusa is related to C. hiraseana. It 

 differs in being much smaller, light colored, not quite so coarsely 

 sculptured, wdth emerging subcolumellar lamella. C. nagashimana 

 of the neighboring province Satsuma is more closely related, but that is 

 also a large dark form. Both of these species differ widely from 

 C. cymatodes in the shape of the clausilium, which in cymatodes is very 

 obtuse at the distal end. The number of palatal plicae will probably 

 prove to be variable. 



Clausilia nagashimana n. sp. PI. LIV, figs. 25, 26, 27, 2S. 



The shell is similar to C. hiraseana Pils., but it is much more finely 

 sculptured, and the superior lamella does not reach the margin. 



Length 28, diam 6.6 mm.; whorls about IH. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 811 



The clausilium (PI. LIV, figs. 27, 28) is long and narrow, attenuated 

 distally, and not excised near the filament. 



Nagashima, Satsuma. Types No. 87,607, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,243 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The type specimen is colored like C. hiraseana; the superior is con- 

 tinuous with the spiral lamella, and the subcolumellar lamella emerges, 

 though it does not reach the lip-edge. 



Another specimen, evidently from a more moist locality, is eroded, 

 dull whitish, partially overgrown with green algse. The subcolumellar 

 lamella is immersed, and the superior lamella is separated from the 

 spiral. The clausilium is like that of C. hiraseana. Without a larger 

 series of specimens it is impossible to tell whether this represents 

 another race or not. 



Section HEMIPH^DUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia ventriluna n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 68, 59, 60. 



Shell slender, fusiform, attenuated toward the apex; rather solid 

 and strong; brown, somewhat glossy; very closely and finely striate, 

 the striae a little closer on the back of the last whorl. Wliorls 9^ or 

 10, the first one globose, sometimes self-amputated. The attenuated 

 early whorls are very convex, the later ones less so, and the last whorl 

 is somewhat flattened laterally, with a noticeable impression marking 

 the position of the principal plica. The aperture is trapezoidal-ovate, 

 somewhat oblique, the peristome reflexed, slightly thickened, con- 

 tinuous and well raised across the parietal wall. The superior lamella 

 is small, marginal and oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which is very high within and penetrates across the ventral side. The 

 inferior lamella recedes deeply, and within the back ascends obliquely, 

 and is nearly straight. It is far smaller and lower than the spiral 

 lamella, but penetrates as deeply. The subcolumellar lamella emerges 

 to the lip-edge. The principal plica is very long, reaching nearly to 

 the peristome, and penetrating inward to a point above the sinulus. 

 The lunella with the upper and lower palatal plicae is shaped like the 

 letter I, and is nearly ventral in position. 



Length 15.7, diam. 3 mm. 



Length 15.3, diam. 3.4 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. LV, figs. 58, 59) is long and narrow, parallel-sided, 

 obliquely rounded distally, and very deeply excised on the columellar 

 side of the filament. 



Yasuda-mura. Tosa. Types No. 87,576, A. N. S. P., from No, 1,011 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




812 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



In this Hemi'phcedusa of the group of C. aulacophora the phcse and 

 lamellae penetrate very deeply — across "the ventral side — and the 

 lunella stands in a ventral position, above the coliimellar margin of the 

 peristome. In C. aulacophora and C. pigra the lunella is lateral, but 

 of the same shape. C. ventriluna is very closely related to C. cary- 

 ostoma and C. c. jayi, which have the armature similarly deep-seated ; 

 but neither of these forms has a perfect lunella uniting the two palatal 

 plicae. 



The clausilium is not thickened distally as in Tyrannophcedusa, but 

 otherwise C. ventriluna has much in common with C. (Tyr.) aurantiaca. 



Other specimens from Tsushima, Awa (Shikoku), are smaller than 

 those from Yasuda-mura, and the superior lamella is either separated 

 from the spiral lamella or but weakly connected therewith. The prin- 

 cipal plica is a little shorter inside. In some of the specimens the sub- 

 columellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge, and is bounded by furrows. 

 In others it is immersed or very feebly and slightly emerges. These 

 shells are No. 1,187 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Clausilia ikiensis n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 45, 46, 50, 51. 



Shell small, fusiform, dark or pale reddish-brown, somewhat shining, 

 weakly striatulate, the last whorl becoming densely and finely striate 

 on the back. Spire decidedly attenuate above. Wliorls 9^, convex, 

 the last somewhat flattened peripherally. Aperture rhombic-ovate, 

 somewhat oblique, the peristome continuous, reflexed and somewhat 

 thickened within; the parietal margin well raised, straight or a little 

 emarginate over the superior lamella. Superior lamella slightly 

 oblique, compressed, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which extends inward scarcely to the middle of the ventral side. 

 Inferior lamella deeply receding, straightly ascending within the back, 

 not penetrating quite so deeply as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar 

 lamella very weakly emerging. Principal plica not long, dorsal and 

 lateral. Upper palatal .plica short, united in the middle to the oblique ,• 

 narrow lunella, which curves inward below. Below the lower end of 

 the lunella there is a short, straight lower palatal plica. 



Length 12, diam. 3 mm. 



Length 11.5, diam. 2.8 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. LV, figs. 50, 51) is parallel-sided, rounded dis- 

 tally, and deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament. It is 

 decidedly arcuate. 



Mush5zumura, Iki. Types No. 86,063, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,088 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This Hemiphcedusa is structurally similar to species of the group of 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 813 



C. awajiensis, except in having a lower palatal plica distinct from the 

 lunella — a structure not found in any other known species of that 

 group. The lower end of the lunella curves inward less than in most 

 species of the group of C. awajiensis. It has some characters of 

 Hemizaptyx. 



Clausilia platydera var. minoensis nov. 



Shell smaller than platydera, with the last whorl built forward, carry- 

 ing the aperture shortly free. Upper palatal plica rather long, arcuate, 

 making an angle with the lunella instead of being merely a short curve 

 continuous with the latter. The subcolumellar lamella is immersed 

 or weakly emerges. 

 /^. Length 18, diam. 3.9 mm. 



Length 18, diam. 3.5 mm. 



Length 15, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Minakamimura, Mino. Types No. 86,468, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,172 of Mr. Hirase's collection, 



Clausilia mikawa n. sp. PI. LIV, figs. 39, 40, 41. 



Shell subcylindric below, tapering above, the spire moderately 

 attenuate and rather thick, the four or five upper whorls widening 

 very little, then the intermediate whorls increase rapidly. Thin, pale 

 greenish-yellow, imperfectly translucent. Sculpture of nearly regular, 

 oblique and fine rib-striae, the intervals very finely striate spirally. 

 The sculpture is not noticeably coarser on the back of the last whorl. 

 Apex obtuse. Whorls 11, convex. Aperture sub vertical, widely ovate, 

 the peristome white, narrowly reflexed, somewhat thickened within, 

 adnate above, but continuous in a slightly raised ledge across the 

 parietal wall. Superior lamella small and compressed, oblique, contin- 

 uous with or contiguous to the spiral lamella, which penetrates to the 

 middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella receding, but visible as a 

 rather sharp fold in the throat, slightly spiral as seen within the back, and 

 penetrating a little deeper than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar 

 lamella immersed or weakly emerging. Principal plica short, dorsal 

 and lateral. Palatal plicae 3 or 4, visible through the shell, subequal 

 or the intermediate 1 or 2 shorter. 



Length 21 to 22, diam. 5 mm. 



Clausilium thin and rounded distally, not excised near the filament. 



Sanganeyama, Mikawa. Types No. 86,519, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,167 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This pale and rather thin species is more distinctly decussate between 

 the striae than other forms known to me. It has the color of some 




814 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



species of the group of C. sublunellata, but the sculpture is stronger 

 and the palatal armature better developed. The smaller C. decussata 

 Marts., from Tsukuba-san, Hitachi, may be related, but I have not 

 seen that species. The spiral striae are not sufficiently indicated in 

 fig. 41. 



Clausilia hosayaka n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 61, 62, 63. 



Shell slender, regularly tapering from the penultimate whorl, the 

 upper third attenuate, apex obtuse ; thin but moderately strong, light 

 brown. Surface glossy, very finely striate. Whorls about 13^, mod- 

 erately convex, the last somewhat flattened on the back. Aperture 

 small, oblique, squarish-piriform, the peristome reflexed, somewhat 

 thickened within, continuous, the parietal margin shortly raised, and 

 emarginate above the superior lamella. Superior lamella compressed, 

 only slightly oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella, which pene- 

 trates to the middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella receding, visi- 

 ble in the aperture as a small fold, straightly ascending within the back, 

 penetrating a little further inward than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar 

 lamella either emerging to the lip-edge or immersed. Principal plica 

 short, chiefly dorsal. Upper palatal plica short, oblique, not connected 

 with the very weak lateral lunella, which is obsolete below, and curves 

 inward above or connects with a short, weak second palatal plica. 

 There is no lower palatal plica. 



Length 22.5, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Length 21.5, diam. 4.3 mm. 



Kamomura, Shima. Types No. 86,521, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,176 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



By its palatal armature this species belongs to the Hemiphsedusan 

 group of C. sublunellata. It is readily distinguished from other known 

 species of that group by the greater number of whorls and more slender 

 spire. The lunella is very feebly developed, and probably will be 

 found to be sometimes obsolete, as in some other species of the group. 



Clausilia koshikijimana n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 53, 54, 55, 56, 57. 



Shell fusiform, much attenuated above, very solid and strong; pale 

 yellow, somewhat glossy, closely and finely striate. Whorls 9, the first 

 quite small, the rest convex, the last whorl somewdiat flattened. The 

 aperture is ovate and projects shortly free; peristome white, reflexed 

 and thickened within. The superior lamella is marginal, low and 

 ol)lique, continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates to a 

 point above the sinulus. The inferior lamella recedes deeply, is straight 

 and oblique within, and thickened at the lower end. It does not pene- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 815 



trate quite so far as the spiral lamella. The siibcolumellar lamella Ls 

 deeply immersed. The principal plica is dorsal and lateral, approach- 

 ing the lip. There is an oblique series of about 5 small, slender palatal 

 plicae situated upon a low ridge. 



Length 14.3, diam. 3.4 mm. 



Length 13, diam. 3.3 mm. 



Length 11, diam. 3 mm. 



The clausHium (PI. LV, figs. 55, 56) is narrow, the distal half tapering 

 to the rounded apex. It is moderately excised on the columellar side 

 of the filament. 



Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. Types No. 87,604, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,239 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A small, solid, pale species, not closely related to any form I have 

 seen. The several palatal plicae stand upon a low callous ridge. There 

 is a good deal of variation in size. 



Section TYRANNOPH.EDUSA Pils. 

 Clausilia aurantiaca sakui n. subsp. PI. LV, fig. 52. 



Shell similar in form to C. aurantiaca, but quite thin, finely, distinctly 

 and sharply striate, pale brownish-yellow; whorls 9 to 10. Superior 

 lamella separated from the spiral; subcolumellar lamella emerging ; clau- 

 silium with the upper and lower palatal plicae imperfectly I-shaped 

 (PI. LV, fig. 52), latero- ventral. Clausilium similar to that of C. 

 aurantiaca, but more delicate. 



Length 13, diam. 3 mm. 



Riujin (Akizu), Kii. Types No. 86,473, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,046 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is also somewhat similar to C. caryostoma and C. c. jayi, 

 both of which have the closing armature subventral; but the clau- 

 silium differs, and the palatal plicae are shorter in C. a. sakui. 



Section NESIOPH.EDUSA nov. 



Group of C. ptycJwchila Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1901, p. 418. 



Phaedusoid Clausilise of normal contour, with a tendency to weak 

 interlamellar plication. Inferior lamella prominent in the mouth, 

 spirally ascending, thick, sometimes indistinctly doubled within; pala- 

 tal armature lateral, the lunella arising from the middle of a strong 

 lower palatal plica, and curving inward above in a short upper palatal 

 plica. Clausilium very convex on the palatal side, tapering distally 

 to a blunt, thickened apex, channeled on the outer face. Type C. 

 hernardii Pfr. 




816 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



I formerly included the species of this section in Hemiphcedusa, from 

 which they differ totally in the form of the clausilium, and in the spir- 

 ally ascending inferior lamella. C. exceUens, of which the clausilium 

 and palatal armature are unknown, will probably be found to belong 

 to Luchuphcedusa. The other species are closely related. 

 Clausilia okinoerabuensis n. sp. PI. LII, figs. 13, 14. 



Shell subcylindric below, the upper half tapering and somewhat 

 attenuate; pale uniform yellowish-corneous. Surface glossy, finely, 

 strongly striate, the striation coarser on the back of the last whorl. 

 Whorls 10, the upper 3 smooth. Aperture ovate-piriform, the peris- 

 tome re flexed and thickened, with a small notch on the right side of 

 the superior lamella, and very indistinct traces of crenulation near it. 

 Superior lamella marginal, small, subvertical, continuous with the 

 spiral lamella which penetrates to the left side. Inferior lamella form- 

 ing a rather prominent fold in the aperture, calloused and spirally 

 ascending within, shorter than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar 

 lamella emerging to the lip-edge. Principal plica short, dorsal and 

 lateral. Lunella strong, oblique, arising from the middle of a strong 

 lower palatal plica, and bending inward above in a rather long upper 

 palatal plica. 



Length 22 to 23, diam. 5 mm. 



Clausilium (PI, LIII, figs, 23, 24) well curved, the columellar margin 

 straight, slightly excised at the filament, the palatal margin very con- 

 vex, then tapering and concave toward the apex, which is blunt and 

 thickened. 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,611, A, N, S. P., from No. 

 1,251 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



A smaller species than C. crenilabium, with the upper palatal plica 

 better developed, with scarcely any interlamellar plication of the upper 

 lip, and a callous but not internally double inferior lamella. The 

 clausilium is less deeply channeled distall}'. It is not so coarsely 

 sculptured as C. bernardii, and is more slender than C. ptijchochila. 



Fossil specimens from a deposit of calcareous sand on the shore of 

 Okinoerabushima are similar to the living specimens in structure, but 

 some specimens are shorter: 



Length 23.6, diam. 5 mm. 



Length 21, diam. 5.4 mm. 



Section LUCHUPH.EDUSA Pils. 

 Clausilia azumai n. sp. PI. LII, figs. 6, 7, 



Shell solid and strong, cylindric below, the upper half regularly taper- 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 817 



ing, slightly attenuated above. Pale yellow. ■\\Tiorls IH, convex, 

 finely striate, the last whorl becoming coarsely striate behind. Aper- 

 ture broadly piriform, white. Peristome with the outer and basal 

 margins well reflexed and thickened within; columellar and parietal 

 margins beautifully crenulate. Superior lamella marginal, compressed, 

 continuous with the spu-al lamella, which penetrates past the aperture 

 to the left side. Inferior lamella forming a rather small, subhorizontal 

 fold in the aperture, with an accessory fold below it extending to the 

 margin; as long inside as the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella 

 emerging to the lip-edge, decidedly shorter inside than the other lamella. 

 The principal plica is long, visible in the throat, extending across the 

 ventral side. The upper palatal plica is very oblique. Lower palatal 

 plica long and angularly bent, a very oblique and rather long lunella 

 arising from the angle. It lies in a sub ventral position. 

 Length 25.3, diam. 6 mm. 



Clausilium rather broad, truncated distally, with a wide and rather 

 long, thick apical projection on the columellar side, and a slight pro- 

 jection on the outer side of the end; the palatal margin rounded. 



Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. T}T3e No. 87,603, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1 ,237 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This fine species is related to C. calHstochila, from which it differs in 

 the following peculiarities : The striation is finer; the inferior lamella is 

 more distinctly doubled below; the lunella is longer and more ventral 

 in position, and the clausilium has a larger process at the apex. It is 

 also related to C. una Pils., of Goto, Hizen; but in that species the 

 lunella is shorter and lateral, and the clausilium is much less specialized, 

 being much like that of Stereophcedusa. 



C. azumai is one of the finest species collected this year by Mr. Azuma 

 in the islands of Satsuma. 



Clausilia una, which I formerly placed in StereojjJicEdusa, should 

 probably be transferred to Luchu'phcedusa or to a separate and special 

 section allied to Luchuphadusa, characterized by the unspecialized 

 clausilium, while all other structures are Luchuphsedusoid, 

 C. azumai idiopylis n. subsp. PI. LII, fig. 8. 



Somewhat smaller than C. azumai and dull reddish-brown; inner 

 lip less strongly crenate; inferior lamella thickened but not distinctly 

 doubled below; subcolumellar lamella immersed. Clausilium (PI. 

 LIII, fig. 17) more oblique and more distinctly notched distally. 

 Length 22, diam. 5.3 mm.; whorls 11^. 



This form, sent with azumai, may prove to be included in the 

 range of variation of that species, but in the absence of interme- 




818 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



diate specimens it seems best to call attention to its differential 

 features. 



Clausilia nakadai n. sp. PI. LI I, fig.s. 9. 10, 11. 



Shell fusiform, moderately attenuate above; yellow, the worn early 

 ■\\horls whitish, nearly lusterless, finely striate. Whorls 10, convex, the 

 latter half of the last flattened. Aperture piriform, white within, with 

 distinct, slightly retracted sinulus. Peristome broadly reflexed, with 

 a fold or doubling behind, thickened within. ColumeUar and parietal 

 margins crenulated. The superior lamella is compressed, vertical and 

 marginal, and continuous with the spiral lamella, which is very high, 

 and penetrates past the ventral side to the middle of the left side. 

 The inferior lamella projects as a very strong columellar fold in the 

 aperture, and penetrates inward slightly farther than the spiral lamella. 

 The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge, and penetrates as 

 deeply as the spiral lamella. The principal plica extends nearly to the 

 lip, and enters deeply. There is a rather long, oblique upper palatal 

 plica, and an obliqueh^ ascending and entering lunella arising from 

 the summit of a long, angularly bent lower palatal plica; all lying in a 

 nearly ventral position. The lower end of the lower palatal plica is 

 visible in the aperture in an oblique view. 



Length 20.5, diam. 5 mm. 



Length 18.5, diam. 4.8 mm. 



Clausilium (PL LIII, figs. 18, 19) strongly curved spirally, the colu- 

 mellar side of the apex projecting in a thick blunt process, the 

 palatal side rounded, a wide shallow notch in the middle. Proximally 

 it tapers gradually and without excision into the filament. 



Matsubara, Tokunoshima. Types No. 87,594, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,205a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



C nakadai is intermediate between C. callistochila and C. oshimas in 

 size, geographic position and morphology. The aperture resembles 

 that of oshimce in shape, but is wider, and the right lip is more crenu- 

 lated. The lamellae are not quite so long as in oshimoi. The lunella 

 is better developed than in either of the other species, and the lower 

 palatal plica is far shorter than in C. oshimce, but differs from that of 

 callistochila in shape. 



This handsome Luchuphcedusa is named in honor of Mr. Nakada, 

 who has brought to light more Riukiuan land snails than all other 

 collectors combined. 

 C. nakadai degenerata n. subsp. PL LII, fig. 12. 



Fresh specimens are pale corneous-buff, very glossy, and typically 

 more slender than nakadai, with the aperture a little narrower and 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 819 



more projecting, the right hp less re flexed, thin, irregularly and more or 

 less ohsoletely crenulate. In internal structure it agrees with nakadai. 

 The clausilium (PI. LIII, fig. 22) is more deeply notched distally than 

 in C. nakadai. 



Length 24, diam. 4.6 mm.; whorls IH. 



Length 21, diam. 4.5 mm.; whorls 104. 



From Sanmura and Matsubara specimens were sent (No. 1,205) 

 agreeing with Nakada's Clausilia in internal structure, but with the 

 right lip thin and crenulate only at the edge. Some are glossy and 

 slender, others somewhat stouter and decorticated throughout. 



Clausilia tokunoshimana n. sp. PI. LII, figs. 4, 5. 



Shell cylindric below, the upper half rapidly tapering, solid, very 

 pale brownish-yellow. Surface glossy when unworn, costulate, more 

 • coarsely so on the back of the last whorl. Whorls 10^, moderately 

 convex, the last half of the lower whorl contracted. Aperture trape- 

 zoidal-ovate, white, the outer margin of the peristome well reflexed 

 and thickened within; columellar and parietal margins narrower, 

 closely and finely crenulate (the crenulation sometimes subobsolete). 

 Superior lamella marginal, rather small, continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the left side. Inferior 

 lamella forming a prominent columellar fold, more or less distinctly 

 doubled below, penetrating inward as deeply as the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, ascending within 

 nearly as far as the other lamellsB. The principal plica is rather short, 

 latero-ventral, not visible in the aperture. Upper palatal plica small, 

 oblique. Lower palatal plica long and bent; the long and very oblique, 

 ventral lunella arising from it in the middle. The lower palatal plica 

 is not visible in the aperture. 



Length 17, diam. 4.2 mm. 



Length 16, diam. 4 mm. 



The clausihum (PI. LIII, figs. 20, 21) is very broad distally, and has 

 a long projection on the columellar side; the palatal side is broadly 

 rounded. It is not excised at the filament. 



Tokunoshuna, Osumi, the types from Sanmura, No. 87,586, A. N. 

 S. P., from No. 1,200 of Mr. Hirase's collection. Other similar speci- 

 mens were sent from Teteyama, near Sanmura (No. 1,200a). 



This species is allied to C. mima of Oshima, but differs in being 

 larger and very coarsely sculptured; the lunella is nearly ventral, 

 and there is a whorl or two more. The clausilium is similar in the 

 two species. 




820 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Section OOPH^DUSA nov. 



The clausilium is well curved, spatulate, with a thick rib near the 

 columellar side of the distal half, continued and projecting finger-like at 

 the apex; proximally it tapers into the filament, and is not emarginate. 



The shell is short, oblong, of few whorls (6-6^ in the species known), 

 the summit very obtuse, entire. Superior continuous with the spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella strongly spiral within, l^ifid below. Upper 

 and lower palatal plica long, the latter united with an oblique lunella. 



The only species now known has a crenulate lip, like Luchiiphosdusa, 

 and the palatal armature and clausilium are similar in the two groups; 

 but in Luchuphcedusa the shell is shaped like ordinary Clausilias, while 

 in Oophcedusa the thick-set shell is not in the least attenuate above, 

 being shaped like a snake's egg, and there are but few whorls. 



Clausilia ophidoon n. sp. PI. LII, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell oblong, fusiform with blunt ends, the penultimate whorl widest; 

 moderately strong; brown; finely striate throughout except the first 

 whorl, which is whitish and smooth; somewhat shining. Wliorls 6^, 

 the first rather large, not projecting, forming a large, very obtuse apex; 

 last whorl tapering. Aperture slightly oblique, piriform, the peristome 

 white, reflexed, thickened within, the columellar and parietal margins 

 closely and strongly folded, the edge crenulate. Superior lamella thin 

 and high, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which pene- 

 trates past the aperture to the left side. Inferior lamella emerging to 

 the lip-edge, spirally ascending within, and penetrating about as far 

 as the superior lamella; below it branches off in a columellar lamella 

 which also emerges to the lip-edge. Subcolumcllar lamella emerging. 

 Principal plica extending from the middle of the dorsal side to a point 

 above the sinulus, visible through from the outside. Upper palatal 

 plica latero-ventral, long, converging inward toward the principal 

 plica. Lower palatal plica very long and very oblique, united with a 

 very oblique lunella, nearly parallel with the plica. 



Length 14.4, diam. 5 mm. 



Length 13, diam. 4.5 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LIII, figs. 15, 16) strongly curved, spatulate, the 

 palatal margin strongly arcuate. A callous rib arises about midway 

 of the columellar margin, and projects in a finger-like process at the 

 apex. 



Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. Types No. 87,602, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,235 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This remarkable species has no near allies among known Clausilias. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 821 



One specimen sent with the type lot is smaller, length 11.7, diam. 4 

 mm., with 6 whorls, pale yellowish in color, and the inferior lamella 

 proper, while visible in the throat, does not extend to the lip (PI. LIT, 

 fig. 3). 



Rection STEREOPH.EDUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia subMckonis n. sp. PI. LIV, figs. 34, 35, 36, 37, 38. 



^Shell fusiform, attenuate above, but terminating in a rather large 

 apex, solid, light yellow, rather strongly rib-striate. Whorls 12 to 12^, 

 convex, the first 3 or 4 cylindric, the penultimate whorl swollen as seen 

 dorsally, last whorl flattened, convex below, not noticeably different 

 in sculpture. Aperture ovate, subvertical, the peristome white, 

 roflexed and thickened within, continuous in a slightly raised ledge 

 across the parietal wall, a little sinuous or notched at the position of the 

 superior lamella. Superior lamella decidedly oblique, marginal, con- 

 tinuous within with the spiral lamella, which penetrates inward to the 

 middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella appearing in front as a 

 strong, subhorizontal fold crossing a much more oblique callous colu- 

 mcllar fold wdiich continues weakly upon the lip; the whole appearing 

 as two nodules. Within the back the inferior lamella is strongly 

 spiral but not very high. It penetrates inward more deeply than the 

 supeiior lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge. 

 The principal plica is very short and lateral. Palatal plicae 4, strong, 

 somewhat oblique and parallel, the lower one a little arcuate, the two 

 intermediate plicae shorter than the others. 



Length 21 to 22.5, diam. 5 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. LIV, figs. 34, 35) is narrower than usual in 

 Stereophcedusa; the columellar margin is straight, a little excised near 

 the filament; the palatal margin convex, contracting distally; the 

 distal end is compressed and ridged inside, and the apex is rounded 

 and noticeably thickened. 



Isobe, Shima. Types No. 86,499, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,168 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This Stereophceclusa is related to CI. hickonis Kobelt, but hickonis is 

 more attenuate above, has more whorls, which are less convex, finer 

 sculpture, longer upper and lower palatal plicse, the latter more curved, 

 and the superior lamella in C. hickonis is visually separated from the 

 spiral lamella, or at least much lower at their junction. 



C. suhhickonis has been taken also at Gokasho-mura, Ise, a place not 

 very far from the type locality. The columella is not quite so con- 

 spicuously binodose in these specimens, two of which measure — 




822 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Length 24, diam. 5.5 mm. 

 Length 23.5, diam. 5 mm. 



Like most of the larger Clausilise, it is sometimes overgrown with 

 green algae, and the original surface destroyed. 



Clausilia hickonis saucia n. sub?p. 



Shell fusiform, solid, brown. Surface glossy, rather coarsely striate, 

 the striae nearly as wide as the intervals. Penultimate whorl widest, 

 the spire regularly tapering, summit broadly truncate. Whorls remain- 

 ing about 8i (several whitish empty ones sometimes persisting above 

 the apical plug), moderately convex, the last tapering downward. 

 Aperture vertical, piriform, brown within. Peristome white, continu- 

 ous, reflexed, and thickened within; the parietal margin short, straight- 

 ened, barely free. Superior lamella marginal, high and compressed, 

 very oblique, continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates 

 past the middle of the ventral side. Inferior lamella strong, approach- 

 ing the superior, appearing below like a strong lamella crossing an 

 oblique, callous columellar fold ; extending inward as far as or further 

 than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella more or less emerging, 

 but not reaching the lip-edge. Principal plica short, lateral. Upper 

 palatal plica rather long, obliquely converging inward to the principal 

 plica. Lower palatal plica nearly as long, strong, somewhat arcuate, 

 parallel to the upper; a shorter plica midway between them. 



Length 26.3, diam. 6.4 mm. 



Length 27, diam. 6.5 mm. 



Clausilium rather long and nearly parallel-sided, well curved, obtuse 

 and noticeably thickened apically, a little excised on the palatal side 

 of the apex, the rest of the palatal margin being arcuate. Both mar- 

 gins regularly taper to the filament. 



Sodayama, Tosa. Types No. 84,784, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,023 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



The broadly truncate summit and robust stature distinguish this 

 from C. hickonis. C. fultoni Sykes, which is merely a weakly charac- 

 terized variety of C. vasta Bttg., differs by its more straightly ascending 

 inferior lamella as well as by the entire apex. 



Zaptychoid phylum. 



The material brought together by Mr. Hirase's collector in the islands 

 of the Ryukyu curve this year, enlarge our knowledge of this phylum 

 to such a degree that a revision of the group is required. 



The entire series of Zaptychoid Clausiliae consists of small, often 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



823 



very small, species, few-whorled , with a clausilium very deeply excised 

 on the columellar side of the filament, and abruptly bent and twisted 

 there. The closing apparatus is always lateral or dorso-lateral, the 

 lamellse rarelj- penetrate as far as the middle of the ventral side, and 

 the spiral lamella is usually low. 



The sections Oligozaptyx and Diceratoptyx constitute two new second- 

 ary phyla, independently evolved from the typical group. In both 

 the clausilium is notched, and the whole structure shows great speciali- 

 zation. Another line of difTerentiation is represented by the sections 

 Metazaptyx and Parazaptyx, in wliich the inferior lamella has become 

 spiral, thereby obstructing the throat, and the clausilium Ls strongly 

 curved. In Parazaptyx the clausilium is further modified in a peculiar 

 and unexampled manner. Then we come to a series of groups in which 

 the shell is without accessory plicae and lamellae, and now defined as 

 Hemizaptyx and Stereozaptyx. The species of these groups I had 

 formerly appended to various sectional divisions as aberrant forms. 

 The e\ddence now at hand indicates that they are either degenerate 

 or primitive branches of the Zaptyx phylum. Stereozaptyx may 

 well be a secondarily simplified form of Parazaptyx, in which the 

 accessory plicae and lamellae have been obliterated in the general and 

 extreme thickening of the shell walls. If so, immature shells might 

 possibly still show some trace of them. 



The interrelations of the subordinate groups and their approximate 

 phylogeny, so far as I understand the recent and fossil forms now 

 known, may be represented by the following diagram. The names of 

 those groups of which the position is hypothetical are in italics. 



Oligozaptyx Diceratoptyx 



Zaptyx- 



Parazaptyx 



Metazaptyx 



Stereozaptyx 



Hemizaptyx 




824 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



A key to the sections follows: 



I. — Limella oblique, straight, becoming more or less incurved below; 

 above united with or contiguous to a short or moderate upper 

 palatal plica, somewhat in the shape of the letter J (except in 

 a few forms where the upper palatal plica is absent). 

 a. — Inferior lamella receding, obliquely ascending and straight- 

 ened within the last whorl; clausilium parallel-sided, 

 rounded or acuminate distally, usually rather straight 

 except near the filament. 

 b. — Shell without sutural plicce. fulcrum or parallel lamella, 



Section Hcmizaptyx. 

 h^. — Shell thin; sutural -pMcce, fulcrum and parallel lamella 



developed, Section Zaptyx. 



a^. — Inferior lamella spirally ascending within the last whorl, 



usuall}^ projecting into the aperture; clausilium strongly 



curved. 



h. — Clausilium tapering distally to an acuminate apex; shell 



solid and strong, without sutural plicte or accessory 



lamellae within; no upper palatal plica. 



Section Stereozaptyx. 



h^. — Clausilium wide, the apex obtuse; shell thin, the inferior 



lamella approaching the superior as a thin fold in 



the aperture. 



c— Clausilium smooth on the outer (convex) face; 



sutural plicae present, . . Section Metazaptyx. 



cV — ClausUium buttressed on the outer face by an erect, 



transverse plate; shell without sutural plicse. 



Section Pamzaptyx. 

 II. — The lunella arises from the middle of a long, arched lower palatal 

 plica, and curves inward at its upper end ; no superior lamella ; 

 sutural plicae, fulcrum and parallel lamella developed. Clau- 

 silium short, deeply notched on the palatal side near the apex. 



Section Oligozaptyx. 



III. — The upper palatal plica is very long, an extremely short lunella 



branching from near its inner end ; superior lamella and sutural 



plicse developed. Clausilium notched on the palatal side near 



the apex, Section Diceratoptyx. 



These groups are new with the exception of Zaptyx. Thej' are re- 

 viewed below except Stereozaptyx (= group of C. entospira, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 644), type C. entospira Pils. No other species 

 of Stereozaptyx is known. 



Section HEMIZAPTYX nov. 



A group of small species differing from Zaptyx in lacking sutural 

 plicse and accessory lamellse, and often in the texture of the shells. 

 They are all small, mostly under 11 mm. long. Most of tliose known 




1904.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 825 



arc from Tancga-shima and Yaku-shima, bvit the group extends south 

 to Tokuno-shima. Type C. pinto. 



The following species belong here : 



C. pinto PlIs. Tanega-shima, Osumi. 



C. ptychocyma Pils. Tancga-shima, Osumi. 



C. ptychocyma ijakushimce Pils. Yakushima, Osumi. 



C. asperata Pils. Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. 



C. caloptyx Pils. Yakushima, Osumi. 



C. agna Pils. Yakushima, Osumi. 



C. purissima Pils. Miyakejima, Izu. 



C. hyperaptyx Pils. Tokunoshima, Osumi. 



C. munus Pils. Oshima, Osumi. 



Key to Species of Hemizaptyx. 

 I. — Clausilium rounded at the distal end. 



a- — Upper palatal plica extremely short or apparently absent, 

 merely an enlargement of the upper end of the lunclla. 

 6. — Solid and strong, nearly smooth; lip very thick, hardly 

 free above; superior lamella contiguous to the spiral; 

 subcolumellar lamella emerging. Tancgashima, 



C. pinto. 



b^. — Extremely solid and strong; almost smooth, the last whorl 



coarsely wrinkled behind the lip; superior lamella sep- 



rated from spiral ; subcolumellar lamella emerging 



or immersed. Tancgashima and Yakushima, 



C. ptychocyma. 



b^. — Moderately strong; very finely striate, the last whorl with 



spaced riblets behind; superior lamella continuous with 



the spiral; subcolumellar lamella immersed. Shimo- 



Koshikijima, Satsuma, C. asperata. 



a*. — Upper palatal plica short but distinctly developed. 



b. — Solid and strong; surface sculptured with strong straight 

 ribs; length 7 to 8 mm. Yakushima, . C. caloptyx. 

 b^. — Surface smooth, brilliantly glossy; more or less transpar- 

 ent. 

 c. — Whorls 6J to 8; shell stoutly fusiform, the diameter 

 contained 3^ to 4 times in the length; subcolumellar 

 lamella weakly emerging. Yakujima, . C. agna. 

 c^.- — Whorls 10; shell slenderly fusiform, the diameter con- 

 tained 5 times in the length; subcolumellar lamella 

 immersed. ]\Iiyakejima, Izu, . . C. purissima. 

 n. — Clausilium angular or acuminate at the distal end; superior 

 lamella continuous with the spiral ; upper palatal plica rather 

 short, scarcely connected with the slightly curved lunella. 

 a. — Shell dark, glossy and rather thin, 10 to 11 mm. long; about 

 7^ whorls; sides of the clausilium strongly reflexed. 



Tokunoshima, C. hyperaptyx. 



r).3 




826 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



aV — Shell brown, 13 to 15 mm. long; about 9 to 10 whorls. Distal 

 half of the clausilium flat. Oshima, . . . . C. munus. 



Clausilia purissima n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 47, 48, 49. 



Shell slenderly fusiform, rather thin, transparent, with a greenish 

 tint, the surface polished, with a brilliant gloss, faintly marked with 

 slight growth-wrinkles. Spire regularly tapering to the obtuse apex, 

 the lateral outlines nearly straight. Whorls 10, convex, parted by a 

 well-marked suture, the last wiiorl a little compressed laterally. Aper- 

 ture oval, the peristome slightly expanded, a little thickened, continu- 

 ous, the parietal margin barely free, short and straightened, Superior 

 lamella marginal, rather high and thin, oblique, continuous with the 

 spiral lamella, which penetrates about to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella hardly visible in a front view, receding, 

 straightly ascending, shorter within than the superior lamella. Sub- 

 columellar lamella very deeply immersed, penetrating inward about 

 as far as the inferior lamella. Principal plica short, dorso-lateral, 

 visible in the throat, penetrating slightly past a lateral position. 

 Upper palatal plica short, dorso-lateral. Lunclla oblique, straight, 

 strongly curving inward at the lower end, not quite reaching the upper 

 palatal plica. 



Length 12.3 to 12.8, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Clausilium (fig. 47) parallel-sided, the apex rounded; abruptly and 

 deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Miyakejima, Izu. Types No. 85,731, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,089 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



In this exquisite species the shell is so pellucid that the plicae, lamellae 

 and axis may be seen through. It is not closely related to any known 

 species, but seems to belong to a group characteristic of the islands 

 south of Kyushu. It is with some doubt, however, that I place C. 

 purissima in the group Hemizaptyx. It may belong to Hcmiphwdusa. 



Clausilia asperata n. sp. PI. LV, figs. 42, 43, 44. 



Shell fusiform, the spire noticeably attenuated above, moderately 

 strong, grayish-brown; glossy; very finely striate, the back of the last 

 whorl sculptured with narrow, widely spaced riblets. Whorls 8^ to 9^, 

 convex, the last tapering. Aperture ovate, the peristome thin, ex- 

 panded and reflexed, shortly free and projecting above. Superior 

 lamella small, marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is 

 rather high within, and penetrates nearly to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella deeply receding, not visible from in front; 

 inside it is nearly straight, thickened and quite high; penetrating a 

 little less deeply than the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 827 



is wholly immersed. Principal plica short. The upper palatal plica 

 is extremely short, a mere enlargement of the summit of the narrow 

 lunella, which is straight above, ciurved inward below. 



Length 11.2, diam. 2.3 mm.; whorls 9+ (figs. 43, 44). 



Length 9, diam. 2 mm.; whorls 8^ (fig. 42). 



The clausilium is parallel-sided, nearly straight, rounded at the apex, 

 excised on the columellar side of the filament. The palatal margin 

 is recurved and dilated. 



Shimo-Koshikijima, Satsuma. Types No. 87,606, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,242 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is the only Zaptychoid form yet known from the Koshi- 

 kijima group. It is related to C. pinto from Tanegashima, but differs 

 in the anteriorly projecting aperture, thinner lip, less solid shell, 

 immersed subcolumellar lamella and the somewhat differently shaped 

 clausilium. Moreover, the back of the last whorl is sculptured with 

 spaced riblets, while the rest of the shell has very close, delicate strise, 

 becoming imperceptible above the middle of the shell. The largest 

 specimen (figs, 43, 44) is extensively worn, and therefore figured in 

 outline. The sculpture is well shown in fig. 42. 



Clausilia hyperaptyx n. sp. PI. LVI, figs. 85, 86, 87, 88. 



The shell is fusiform, glossy, dark reddish-brown, weakly, finely 

 striate, the back of the last whorl densely and sharply striate. Upper 

 half of the spire rapidly tapering to a rather acute apex. 'Wliorls 7^. 

 Aperture like that of C. hyperoptyx, but the peristome is somewhat 

 more widely expanded. Superior lamella continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side, and is 

 much dilated within. There is no fulcrum or parallel lamella. The 

 inferior lamella recedes deeply, is high, strong and nearly straight 

 within the last whorl, and penetrates nearly as deeply as the spiral 

 lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. The principal plica is 

 a half whorl long, dorsal and lateral. The upper palatal plica is short, 

 and lies mainly inward from the upper end of the lunella, with which 

 it is scarcely connected. The lunella is slightly arcuate. There are 

 no sutural plicce. 



Length 10.9, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Length 10, diam. 2 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVI, figs. 85, 87, 88) rather long, parallel-sided, the 

 two sides very strongly recurved (see fig. 85), the columellar side is 

 narrowly thickened; the distal end is somewhat acuminate. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,597, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,230 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




828 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



This species closely resembles C. hyperoptyx in color and sciilpture, 

 but is somewhat more obese, with more acute apex, and it is quite 

 different in internal structure and in the shape of the clausilium. It 

 is not closely related to any other species now known. 



The clausilium resembles that of C. miinus in shape, except that in 

 munus it is flat, not rolled back on the two sides. 



Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry, s.str. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1900, p. 672. 



To the definition of this group may be added : Inferior lamella but 

 slightly curved and obliquely ascending within the last whorl; superior 

 and spiral lamellse sometimes continuous; end of the clausilium 

 rounded. 



The following species belong to this group: 



C. hirasei Pils. Kagoshima and Sakura Island, Satsuma. 



C. kikaiensis Pils. Kikaiga-shima, of the Oshima group. 



C. sarissa Pils. Okinoerabu-shima, of the Oshima group. 



C. hyperoptyx Pils. Ryukyu. 



C. hyperoptyx yoronfimana Pils. Yoronjima. 



C. yaeyamensis Pils. Yaeyama. 



It is likely that C. strictaluna Bttg., of Kyushu, a species I have not 

 seen, will prove to belong to Zaptyx; but the clausilium is still unknown. 



Clausilia hirasei Pils. PI. LVI, figs. 64, 65, 66, 67. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, pp. 446, 673. 



The original figure was in outline, and new ones are now given for 

 comparison with the other species herein described. 



The clausilium (figs. 66, 67) is more dilated on the palatal side of 

 the filament than in C. hyperoptyx, C. sarissa, or other related species. 



The types were from Kagoshima, Satsuma. The specimens now 

 illustrated are from Sakura Island, in Kagoshima Bay. It is not 

 known from any other localities. 



Clausilia kikaiensis n. sp. PI. LVI, figs. 68, 69, 70, 71. 



C. hirasei, a more slender form , etc., from Kikai, Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 

 1901, p. 465. 



C. hirasei var. kikaie7isis Pils., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1901, p. 651 (no descrip- 

 tion). 



Shell small, slender, fusiform, tapering from the penultimate whorl 

 to the small but obtuse apex, near which it is slightly attenuated. 

 Chestnut-brown of varying shades, the last whorl often darker. Sur- 

 face glossy, faintly striate, nearly smooth, the back of the last whorl 

 striate, the strise usually widely spaced. Whorls about 8. Aperture 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 829 



piriform, the peristome very narrowly refiexed, whitish. Superior 

 lamella small and low, widely separated from the low short spiral 

 lamella. Inferior lamella receding, not visible in a front view ; low and 

 obliquely ascending within. Subcolumellar lamella emerging, very 

 slender, rising angularly on the palatal w^all below the lunella. A short 

 fulcrum and parallel lamella are present. Principal plica dorsal and 

 lateral, visible in the aperture. Upper palatal plica extremely short, 

 weakly connected with the lunella, which is straight above, but curves 

 inward slightly at the lower end. There are three short sutural plicse, 

 the middle one often inconspicuous. 



Length 9, diam. 2.1 mm. 



Length 7.2, diam. 1.7 to 2 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVI, figs. 68, 69) rather long, parallel-sided, rounded 

 at the apex, deeply excised at the columellar side of the filament. 



Kikaiga-shima. Osumi. Types Nos. 79,728 and 80,787, A. N. S. P., 

 from Nos. 557 and 5576 of Mr. Hirase's collection. It has also been 

 found by Mr. Nakada at Tokuno-shima, Osumi (No. 1,203 of Mr. 

 Hirase's collection). It will probably turn up on the intermediate 

 islands of the Oshima subgroup. 



This species is closely related to C. hyperoptyx of Ryukyu (Okinawa), 

 but it differs in the less swollen embryonic whorls, shorter upper palatal 

 plica, less developed superior lamella and usually smaller size, though 

 the largest specimens of kikaiensis are equal to hyperoptyx. C. hirasei, 

 from Satsuma, along Kagoshima Bay, is a decidedly wider shell, with 

 less attenuated spire. The clausilium in C. kikaiensis resembles that 

 of C hirasei and C. sarissa, but it is decidedly less dilated on the palatal 

 side of the filament than in C. hirasei. 



1 formerly considered the Kikai specimens to be a variety of C. 

 hirasei (these Proceedings for 1901, p. 465), but fiuther study of much 

 larger series of both forms shows that their differential features are 

 constant. They are rather widely separated geographically. 



Clausilia sarissa n. sp. PI. LVI, figs. 72, 73, 74, 75. 



Shell cylindric below, tapering and a little attenuated above ; brown, 

 the fully adult shells marked with whitish or creamy lines and streaks. 

 Surface somewhat glossy, very faintly striatulate, nearly smooth, the 

 last third of the last whorl sharply, finely striate. Whorls 8, quite 

 convex. Aperture ovate, the peristome narrow, refiexed, and in fully 

 adult shells somewhat thickened at the edge. Superior lamella small, 

 vertical, not continuous with the low small spiral lamella. Inferior 

 lamella receding, visible only in an oblique \"iew in the aperture, high 




830 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' ' " [Dec, 



and a little curved within, not continued parallel to the spiral lamella, 

 but a very small inserted lamella {I. inserta) appears near the end of 

 the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella ivlwlly immersed. There 

 is a fulcrum and a parallel lamella. Principal plica short, dorsal 

 and lateral, visible in the mouth. Upper palatal plica short, joined 

 in the middle to the long lunella, which is straight above, curved in- 

 ward below. A single sutural plica is developed, with the trace of a 

 second upper one. 



Length 10, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Length 9, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVI, figs. 72, 73) parallel-sided, rounded at the apex, 

 deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament. 



Okinoerabushima, Osumi. Types No. 87,613, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,253 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species resembles C. hirasei, but differs in the decidedly stronger 

 striation of the last whorl behind the lip, the wider peristome, immersed 

 subcolumellar lamella, the more convex whorls and the poorer develop- 

 ment of sutural plicae. It is nearly opaque. As in C. hirasei, the 

 inferior lamella is interrupted within. The palatal side of the filament 

 is less dilated above than in C. hirasei. The specimen figured has a 

 thicker peristome than most of those sent. The figure is too distinctly 

 streaked. 



Clausilia hyperoptyx Pilsbry. PI. LVI, figs. 76, 77, 78, 79. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, pp. 446, 472; 1901, pp. 423. 



The statement in the original description that the "upper palatal 

 plica is very short" was an error, which the figure (PI. 14, fig. 12) 

 corrects. The upper palatal plica is rather long, united in the middle 

 with the lunella. The superior lamella is higher, better developed than 

 in C. hirasei and C. kikaiensis. The tapering spire is distinctly attenu- 

 ated above, but the apex is larger than in the related species ; and the 

 striation is better developed than in C. hirasei or C. kikaiensis. It is 

 known only from Great Ryukyu Island (Okinawa); the specimens 

 reported from Yaeyama prove to be specifically different. 



Length 9 to 10, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilimn (PI. LVI, figs. 76, 77) is rather wide, rounded distally. 

 It is wider than that of hirasei, kikaiensis or sarissa. 



Clausilia hyperoptyx yoronjimana n. subsp. 



The superior and spiral lamellse are more or less completely discon- 

 nected, and the lunella joins the middle of the short upper palatal plica, 

 as in C. hyperoptyx; but the shell is perceptibly wider, and the last 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 831 



whorl is decidedly less striate. It is also paler and somewhat more 

 transparent. 



Length 10 to 10.5, diam. 2.4 mm. 



Yoronjima, Osumi. Types No. 88;767, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,253a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Clausilia yaeyamensis n. sp. PI. LVI, figs. 80, 81, 82, 83, 84. 



Shell cylindric below, regularly tapering from the penultimate 

 whorl to the apex; dark chestnut, paler near the apex. Surface glossy, 

 evenly, -finely and sharply striate, the back of the last whorl a little more 

 irregularly so. Whorls 8^, the earlier ones quite convex, the later 

 much less so. Aperture piriform, the peristome expanded, whitish. 

 Superior lamella rather high, compressed, weakly continuous with the 

 spiral lamella, which penetrates nearly to the middle of the ventral 

 side. Inferior lamella deeply receding, nearly straight and obliquely 

 ascending within, shorter than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar 

 lamella emerging. A parallel lamella and fulcrum present. Principal 

 plica about one-half a whorl long, dorsal and lateral, visible in the 

 aperture. Upper palatal plica very short, connected with the straight 

 lunella, which bends inward at its lower end. There are two sutural 

 plicae. 



Length 11, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Length 10.5, diam. 2.3 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVI, figs. 80, 81, 82) wider above than below, 

 obtusely rounded distally, abruptly excised at the filament. 



Yaeyama, Ryukyu. Types No. 80,963 and 87,561, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 4576 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to C. hyperoptyx, from which it differs in the 

 even striation and very short upper palatal plica, and the weakly 

 continuous superior and spiral lamellae. The clausilium closely resem- 

 bles that of C. hyperoptyx. I reported this species under the name 

 hyperoptyx in these Proceedings for 1901, p. 651, not having at that 

 time opened the specimens. C. hyperoptyx has not been found on 

 Yaeyama, and probably does not occur in the southwestern group of 

 islands. 



Section METAZAPTYX nov. 



Similar to Zaptyx, except th^t the inferior (lamella ascends spirally 

 within and in the mouth is visible as a fold approaching the superior 

 lamella; the base of the shell is somewhat sack-like. The clausilium 

 is broad, strongly curved distally, shorter than thatjof Zaptyx, and 

 rounded at the apex. 




832 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The few species now known of this group are scattered over a wide 

 expanse : 



C. hachijoensis Pils. Hachijo-jima, Izu group. 



C. doBmonorum Pils. Kikaiga-shima, Oshima group. 



C. doemonorum viva Pils. Tokuno-shima, Oshima group. 



C. pattalus Pils. Tarama-jima, Oshima group. 



C. pattalus miyakaensis Pils. Miyaka-jima, Oshima group. 



Clausilia pattalus n. sp. PI. LVII, figs. 93, 94, 95, 96, 97. 



Shell cylindric below, tapering from the penultimate whorl in a long, 

 somewhat attenuate spire; brown, becoming whitish at the apex. 

 Surface glossy, finely and rather weakly striate, becoming finely and 

 sharply striate on the last third of the last whorl. Whorls S^ to 9, 

 convex, the second disproportionately long, the last compressed laterally, 

 very convex beneath. Aperture irregularly ovate, the peristome 

 whitish, refiexed, somewhat thickened within. Superior lamella small 

 marginal, continuous with the low spiral lamella, which penetrates to 

 a point above the columellar lip. Inferior lamella deeply receding, 

 scarcely visible in a front view, but seen in an oblique view as a small 

 fold approaching the superior lamella; within it ascends spirally, and 

 penetrates as far as the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella is im- 

 mersed. Fulcrum and parallel lamella are developed. Principal plica 

 about one-third of a w^horl long. Upper palatal plica rather long, 

 connected in the middle with the lunella, which curves inward below. 

 There are two sutural plicae, the upper one weak or indistinct. 



Length 11.2, diam. 2.5 mm.; whorls 9. 



Length 10, diam. 2.3 mm. ; whorls 8^. 



Clausilium (PL LVII, figs. 93, 94, 95) rather short, parallel-sided, 

 the distal end very strongly curved ; the apex is blunt, tapering a little 

 on both sides. It is somewhat thickened along the palatal side, and 

 is very abruptly and deeply excised near the filament. 



Taramajima, one of the Mij'ako subgroup of the Southwestern 

 group. 



Types No. 87,639, A. N, S. P., from No. 1,301a of Mr. Hirase's col- 

 lection. 



This species is stronger than C. dcBmonorum viva, from which it differs 

 in the immersed subcolumellar lamella, the less dilated, more immersed 

 inferior lamella, and the better development of the peristome and inter- 

 nal lamellae. There are also differences in the shape of the claasilium. 



C. pattalus miyakoensis n. subsp. 



Shell thinner, paler, and often smaller than C. pattalus, with the supe- 

 rior lamella smaller. All of the lamellae and plicae are weaker. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 833 



Length 10.3, diam. 2.3 mm. ; whorls 9. 



Length 9, diam. 2 mm. ; whorls 8. 



Miyakojima. Types No. 87,638, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,301 of 

 Mr. Hu'ase's collection. 



As the differences between these specimens and those from Tarama- 

 jima, though slight, are constant, I have thought it best to signalize 

 them by a name. 



Claasilia dsemonorum Pila. PI. LVII. figs. 98, 99. 

 Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1902, p. 381. 



Having onlyj fossil specimens without the clausilium, I described 

 this species originally as a Stereophcedusa. Recent discoveries by Mr. 

 Hirase have now made it clear that there exists a group of species 

 closely related to Zaptyx, in which the inferior lamella is spiral within. 

 The types of C. dcemonorum show, now that they are more per- 

 fectly cleaned, two sutural plicce, which I did not see when originally 

 describing the species. 



C. dcemonorum differs from C. kikaiensis in the more swollen, sack- 

 like base, larger superior lamella and the less immersed, spirally ascend- 

 ing inferior lamella. 



The species is apparently extinct in the type locality, Kikaiga-shima, 

 a small, low island which has been pretty thoroughly examined for 

 land shells; but a closely related living form has been sent from 

 Tokunoshima. 



The figures are drawn to a smaller scale than the others on the same 

 plate. 



C. dsemonorum viva n. subsp. PI. LVII, figs. 89, 90, 91, 92. 



Shell cylindric below, tapering from the penultimate whorl to the 

 apex, pale yellow or brownish-yellow, more or less transparent; thin. 

 Surface glossy, with low wrinkles of growth, and behind the lip some 

 stronger striae. Whorls 8^, those of the spire quite convex, the last 

 two somewhat flattened; last whorl compressed laterally, very convex 

 mid sack-like below. Aperture trapezoidal-ovate, the sinulus a little 

 retracted; lip thin, expanded and narrowly reflexed, white. Superior 

 lamella marginal, small, vertical and compressed, continuous with the 

 spiral lamella which is low and delicate. Inferior lamella receding, 

 forming a high compressed fold and approaching the superior lamella 

 in the throat; within the back of the last whorl it is dilated and ascends 

 in a broadly spiral curve. It is short within, and does not run parallel 

 to the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. The ful- 

 crum and parallel lamella are very small. The principal plica is about 




834 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



one-third of a whorl long. The upper palatal plica is very short, and 

 connected with the very oblique and curved lunella. There are two 

 weak sutural plicae. 



Length 9.8, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Length 9.5, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. LVII, figs. 90, 91) is rather short, wider below 

 than above, and strongly curved near the rounded apex; it is abruptly 

 and deeply excised near the filament, as usual. 



Bomayama, Tokunoshima, Osumi. Types No. 87,588, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,201 of Mr. Hirasc's collection. 



This little Clausilia has much in common with the fossil C. dcemono- 

 rum of Kikaiga-shima, but it is somewhat less specialized in having the 

 superior and spiral lamellae continuous. The upper of the two sutural 

 plicae is very w^eak, and in some specimens hardly perceptible. In one 

 opened I saw a very weak lamella inserta. 



Section PARAZAPTYX nov. 



The shell is similar to Zaptyx, except that the inferior and subcolu- 

 mcllar lamellae ascend spirally, as in Metazaptyx; fulcrum and parallel 

 lamella and sutural plicae are absent. The clausilium is wide, tapers 

 strongly to the apex, and is strengthened by a transverse lamellar rib on 

 the convex side. 



The extraordinary clausilium of this group finds no parallel in 

 Asiatic Clausiliidce. Parazaptyx is another of the highly specialized 

 phyla of the Riukiu Islands which give evidence of the ancient origin of 

 these insular faunas. 



In its spirally ascending lamellae and wide clausilium, this Section 

 resembles Metazaptyx, but it is like Hemizaptyx in lacking accessory 

 plicae, and the clausilium is unique. 



Clausilia thaumatopoma n. sp. PI. LVII, figs. 100, 101, 102, 103, 104. 



Shell cylindric below, the upper half tapering and a little attenuated 

 near the apex; brown, the apex pale. Whorls 9, convex, the first two 

 smooth, the second whorl disproportionately wide; third and subse- 

 quent whorls closely, finely and sharply striate, shining, the striation 

 coarser behind the lip. The aperture is trapezoidal-ovate, retracted 

 at the sinulus, not projecting, brown inside ; the peristome is pale-edged, 

 very narrowly reflexed, obtuse but hardly thickened. The superior 

 lamella is subvertical, marginal, rather high, and continuous with the 

 low spiral lamella, which penetrates to the middle of the ventral side. 

 The inferior lamella recedes very deeply, and is not visible in a front 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 835 



view, though seen obliquely from the base it appears as a rather high 

 thin lamella. Within it ascends in a widely spiral curve. The sub- 

 columellar lamella emerges to the lip-edge, and ascends in a sigmoid 

 curve. The principal plica is about a half whorl long, dorsal and 

 lateral. The u])pcr palatal plica is veiy oblicj[ue, and weakly joined 

 to the lunella, which is oblique, straight above, arcuate, curving inward 

 below. 



Length 10.5, diam. 2.5 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVII, figs. 100, 101, 104) short and wide, well curved, 

 at the distal end tapering to a blunt apex, somewhat excavated on the 

 palatal side. It is deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament. 

 On the outer, convex surface there is a transverse plate extending from 

 side to side. 



Kumejima, Ryukyu. Types No. 87,631, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,293 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Externally this species is much like the striate species of Zaptyx, 

 but the sigmoid lamellse and unique clausilium distinguish it. 



Section OLIGOZAPT^^K nov. 



The shell is very small, fusiform, with no superior lamella. The 

 inferior lamella forms a squarish fold in the throat and the subcolu- 

 mellar lamella is obsolete below. There is a long lower palatal plica 

 and short upper united with the lunella. Sutural plicae and a lamella 

 fulcrans are developed. The clausilium is notched on the palatal side 

 of the projecting apex, and excised on the columellar side of the fila- 

 ment. 



Type C. hedleyi. 



In this extraordinary phylum the clausilium resembles that of 

 Diceratoptyx, while the palatal armature is totally unlike any other 

 known Zaptychoid form by the development of a large lower palatal 

 plica. The whole closing apparatus is of a highly evolved type. 



Clausilia hedleyi n. sp. PI. LVII, figs. 105-110. 



Shell very small, jusiform, attenuated above, amber-colored, trans- 

 parent; almost smooth, with a brilliant gloss, the last whorl slightly 

 striate behind the lip. Whorls 7|, convex, the last narrow and taper- 

 ing downward. Aperture projecting free in front, piriform, the white 

 lip narrowly reflexed. Superior lamella obsolete, represented merely 

 by a slight thickening of the peristome. Spiral lamella small, low and 

 short, lateral. Inferior lamella receding, forming a strongly projecting 

 squarish and bifid fold in the throat, low within. Subcolumellar 




836 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



lamella wholly immersed, subobsolete. Principal plica long, extending 

 from a ventral position nearly to the aperture. Lunella lateral, united 

 to the middle of a long, curved lower palatal plica, and with its upper 

 end continued inward in a shorter upper palatal plica, much as in C. 

 platydera and its allies. There are two minute sutural plicae and a 

 short lamella julcrans. 



Length 7.8, diam. 1.7 mm. 



Clausilium (PI. LVII, figs. 105, 106, 107, 108) rather short, parallel- 

 sided, abruptly bent at the apex and twisted into a sort of spout, 

 notched on the palatal side of the projecting apex. 



Tokunoshima, Osumi, at Matsubara. Types No. 87,589, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,202 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is one of the smallest as well as one of the most specialized of 

 Asiatic Clausilise. It is named in honor of my friend, Charles Hedley. 



The clausilium is both abruptly curved and twisted near the apex, 

 so that its true shape is not easily conveyed by figures. The apical 

 end, however, is well shown by figs. 105 and 108, while it is seen much 

 foreshortened in figs. 106 and 107. 



Section DICERATOPTYX nox. 



The glossy shell is Zaptychoid, the superior lamella developed, 

 inferior lamella receding, calloused below. Subcolumcllar lamella 

 rising high on the palatal wall, dilated in a lateral position. Upper 

 palatal plica very long, an extremely short lunella descending from near 

 its inner end. Lamella fulcrans and parallela and sutural plicae are 

 developed. Clausilium deeply excised as usual at the filament, and 

 with a deep notch excavated near the apex on the palatal side. 



The very long upper palatal plica and diminutive lunella, and the 

 peculiar clausilium, are characteristic. The dilated subcolumellar 

 lamella, which rises high on the palatal wall, takes the place of a lower 

 palatal plica. 



The clausilium resembles that of Oligozaptyx, but the notch near the 

 distal end has been independently evolved in the two groups ; that of 

 Diceratoptyx being adapted to fit over the dilated subcolumellar lamella, 

 whUe in Oligozaptyx the notch fits over the lower palatal plica, and 

 has been evolved with the evolution of the latter. 



The internal structure is partially shown in PL LVII, fig. 113: /, 

 fulcrum; p, parallel lamella; sp, spiral lamella; inf, inferior lamella; 

 sc, subcolumellar lamella. The characteristic dilation of the latter 

 is^well shown, as w^ell as its course upon the palatal wall of the shell, 

 through which it is seen by transparence. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 837 



Clausilia cladoptyx n. sp. PI. LVII, figs. 111-115. 



Shell cylindric below, the upper half regularly tapering; amber or 

 brownish-amber colored; almost entirely smooth, with a varnish-like 

 gloss. Whorls 9, quite convex. Aperture ovate; peristome reflexed, 

 slightly thickened. Superior lamella small, vertical, marginal, con- 

 tiguous to or continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates 

 nearly to the ventral side. Inferior lamella more or less receding, 

 forming a very strong fold in the throat, ascending in a very broad 

 sigmoid plate, abruptly diminishing to a small thread above, which 

 revolves parallel to the spiral lamella, but does not penetrate so deeply. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge ; inside it dilates, rising 

 in an angle in a lateral position. Outside of the spiral lamella there are 

 two short equal, parallel lamellae {lamella fulcrans and I. parallela). 

 The principal plica is dorsal and lateral, visible in the throat, and nearly 

 a half whorl long; below it there is a very long upper palatal plica, 

 which at its inner end gives out a very short oblique branch downward, 

 the lunella. Below this there is a short palatal plica, at least in some 

 specimens. Above the principal plica there are two sutural plicse, 

 the lower one well developed, the upper small. 



Length 10, diam. 2.2 mm. 



Length 9, diam. 2 mm. 



The clausilium (PI. LVII, figs. Ill, 112) is short and wide, parallel- 

 sided ; there is a deep semicircular notch near the apex on the palatal 

 side, and a deep excision on the columellar side of the filament. A 

 marginal rib runs along the columellar side from the excision to the 

 notch. 



Tokunoshima, at Teteyama, near Sanmura. Types No. 87,592, 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,204a of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Specimens from Sanmura, Tokunoshima, differ from typical C. 

 cladoptyx in the smaller size: length 9, diam. 2 mm. to length 7.5, 

 diam. 1.8 mm. 



The plicse are visible from the outside through the shell, as in Oligo- 

 zaptyx. 



EuPHiEDUSOID PHYLUM. 



Section EUPH.EDUSA Bttg. 

 Clausilia tryoni var. miyakejimana subsp. nov. 



This race differs from C. tryoni in having two or three small, short 

 palatal plicae below the upper one. The striation of the last whorl is 

 also denser and finer. 



Miyakejima, Izu. Types No. 86,464, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,068 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




83s proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Explanation of Plates LII-LVII. 



Plate LII, Figs. 1, 2, 3. — Clausilia ophidoon Pils. 

 ^_^ Figs. 4, 5. — Clausilia tokunoshimana Pils. 

 . _, Figs. 6, 7. — Clausilia azumai Pils. 



Fig. 8. — Clausilia azumai idiopylis Pils. 



Figs. 9, 10, 11. — Clausilia nakadai Pils. 



Fig. 12. — Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils. 



Figs. 13, 14. — Clausilia okinoerahuensis Pils. 

 Plate LIII, Figs. 15, 16. — Clausilia ophidoon Pils. Clausilium. 



Figs. 17. — Clausilia azumai idiopylis Pils. Clausilium. 



Figs. 18, 19. — Clausilia nakadai Pils. Clausilium. 



Figs. 20, 21. — Clausilia tokunoshimana Pils. Clausilium. 



Fig. 22. — Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils. Clausilium. 



Figs. 23, 24. — Clausilia okinoerahuensis Pils. Clausilium. 

 Plate LIV, Figs. 25, 2G, 27, 28. — Clausilia nagashimana Pils. 



Figs. 29, 30, 31, 32, 33.— C/aw.sz7m cymatodes Fi\s. 



Figs. 34, 35, 36, 37. — Clausilia subhickonis Pils. 



Fig. 38. — Clausilia subhickonis, variety. 



Fig. 39. — Clausilia mikawa Pils., palatal aspect. 



Figs. 40, 4:1 .—Clausilia mikawa Pils., type. 

 Plate LV, Figs. 42, 43, 44. — Clausilia asperata Pils. 



Figs. 45, 46. — Clausilia ikiensis Pils. 



Figs. 47, 48, 49. — Clausilia purissima Pils. 



Fisg. 50, 51. — Clausilia ikiensis Pils. Clausilium. 



Fig. 52. — Clausilia aurantiaca sakui Pils. 



Figs. 53, 54, 55, 56, 57. — Clausilia koshikijimana Pils. 



Figs. 58, 59, GO.— Clausilia ventriluna Pils. 



Figs. 61, 62, 63. — Clausilia hosayaka Pils. 

 Plate LVI, Figs. 64, 65, 66, 67 .—Clausilia hirasei Pils. 



Figs. 68, 69, 70, 71. — Clausilia kikaiensis Pils. 



Figs. 72, 73, 74, 75. — Clausilia sarissa Pils. 



Figs. 76, 77, 78, 79. — Clausilia hyperoptyx Pils. 



Figs. 80, 81, 82, 83, Si.— Clausilia yaeyamensis Pils. 



Figs. 85, 86, 87, 88. — Clausilia hyperaptyx Pils. 

 Plate LVII, Figs. 89, 90, 91, 92. — Clausilia damonorum viva Pils. 



Figs. 93, 94, 95, 96, 97 .—Clausilia pattalus Pils. 



Figs. 98, 99. — Clausilia doimonorum Pils. These figures are drawn to a 

 smaller scale than the others on the plate. 



Figs. 100, 101, 102, 103, IQA.— Clausilia thaumatopoma Pils. 



Figs. 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, llO .—Clausilia hedleyi Pils. 



Figs. Ill, 112, 113, 114, 115.— Clausilia dado ptyx Pils 




1904.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 839 



The following reports were ordered to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Sixteen meetings have been held during the year, on the first and 

 third Tuesdays from October to May inclusive, with an average attend- 

 ance of thirty-six. Verbal communications were made by ]\Iessrs. 

 A. E. Brown, Sharp, Keeley, Calvert, Chapman, Pilsbry, Fowler, 

 Stone, Borden, Goodspeed, Phillips, Conklin, Nelson, Willcox, S. Brown, 

 Moore, Wetherill, Miss Wardle and ]\Iiss Keller. 



Fifty-two papers were presented for publication, as follows : James 

 A. G. Rehn, 7; Henry W. Fowler, 4; Henry A. Pilsbry, 4; J. Percy 

 Moore, 4; Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., 2; T. D. A. Cockerell, 2; Henry 

 C. Chapman, 2; J. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 1; Nathan Banks, 

 1; N. M. Stevens, 1; Addison Guhck, 1; Harold Heath, 1; Thomas L. 

 Casey, 1 ; James A. Nelson, 1 ; Harry C. Oberholzer, 1 ; A. E. Brown, 1 ; 

 John H. Harshbergcr, 1 ; Benjamin Sharp and H. W. Fowler, 1 ; M. F. 

 Thompson, 1; William F. Allen, 1; David H. Tennant, 1; Sarah P. 

 Monks, 1 ; Witmer Stone, 1 ; Witmer Stone and A. S. Bunnell, 1 ; H. A, 

 Pilsbry and E. ^^anatta, 1 ; H. A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase, 1 ; R. W. Shu- 

 feldt, 1; Mary H. Greenwalt, 1; Adele M. Fielde, 1; Adele M. Fielde 

 and G. H. Parker, 1 ; Everett F. Phillips, 1 ; R. V. Chamberlin, 1 ; 

 Charles W. Johnson, 1; Albert M. Reese, 1. 



One of these. Fowler's Fishes of Sumatra, forms the concluding num- 

 ber of Volume XII of the Journal, six were returned to the authors, two 

 were transferred to the Entomological Section, one is held under 

 consideration, four have been accepted for publication in the volume 

 for 1905, and the others constitute the current volume of the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



A paper by Edward G. Conklin, Ph.D., entitled The Organization 

 and Cell-Lineage of the Ascidian Egg, to form the first number of the 

 Journal, A'olume XIII, is going through the press, and will be ready 

 for publication as soon as five of the plates in color, now being preparetl 

 in Germany, are received. 



Eight hundred and ninety-five pages of the Proceedings and 59 

 plates, 70 pages and 22 plates of the Journal, 352 pages and 20 plates 

 of the Entomological Neivs, 299 pages and 20 plates of the Transactions 

 of the American Entomological Society (Entomological Section of the 




840 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Academy), and 353 pages illustrated by 60 plates of the Manual of 

 Conchology have been published. 



The issues of the Proceedings and Journal have been distributed as 

 follows : 



Proceedings, delivered to members 498 



" exchanged, 560 



" to subscribers, 40 



1,098 



Journal, exchanged, 72 



" to subscribers, 34 



106 



The decrease in the number of copies of the Proceedings sent out is 

 due to a careful revision of the Exchange List, those societies being 

 dropped, after due notification, from whom it is unlikely that a return 

 will be received. 



Sixteen members and two correspondents have been elected. The 

 deaths of sixteen members and four correspondents have been an- 

 nounced. The following have resigned their membership: William J. 

 Scott, Norris J. Scott, H. B. Gross, O. S. Paxson, William D. Joyce, 

 William R. Reineck, C. M. Thomas and H. H. Furness. 



In consequence of a decrease in the membership of the Conchological 

 Section it ceased to exist in March, and the publication of the Manual 

 of Conchology, the property of the Section since the death of the first 

 editor, Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., has been assumed by the Academy. 

 The work will be continued under the direction of Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D. Mr. S. Raymond Roberts, formerly Treasurer of the 

 Conchological Section, has kindly consented to retain the financial 

 administration of the Manual, and has reported on the receipts and 

 expenditures since the dissolution of the Section. 



Dr. Charles B. Penrose was elected a member of the Council to fill 

 the vacancy caused by the absence of Mr. Charles H. Cramp. 



The resignation of Mr. Harold Wingate from the Committee on 

 Accounts, becavise of removal from the city, w^as accepted. 



The meetings of a number of related societies continue to be held 

 in the rooms of the Academy. 



I desire to acknowledge my obligation to Mr. William J. Fox for 

 most efficient assistance in the preparation and distribution of tlic 

 publications and in other matters connected with my office. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretory. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 841 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year, as usual, the bulk of the correspondence with 

 scientific societies and institutions was concerned with the exchange 

 of periodical publications, the number of which acknowledged shows 

 a material increase. Several proposals to exchange publications were 

 referred to the Publication Committee, and requests for the loan of 

 collections or offers of specimens to the Curators. 



The year has been noteworthy for the number of deaths of prominent 

 scientific men and for the importance of its international congresses of 

 learning. Formal notices of no fewer than eight deaths of Presidents 

 of societies and Directors of museums were received and duly acknowl- 

 edged in letters of condolence. 



Invitations to the Academy to participate were received from the 

 Organizing Committees of four international congresses, but in each 

 case, beyond an expression of interest, no formal action was taken by 

 the Academy and no delegates were appointed. 



The deaths of four distinguished correspondents — Karl A. Zittel, 

 Henry M. Stanley, R. A. Phillippi and Eduard von Martens — occurred 

 during the year and were announced from the Chair. In the election 

 of Profs. A. A. W. Hubrecht, of Utrecht, and Frantisek Vejdovsky, of 

 Prag, the high standard of scientific attainment now required by the 

 Academy as a condition of corresponding membership is maintained. 

 Fourteen correspondents have contributed their photographs, accom- 

 panied in most cases by biographical sketches. 



Following are the statistics of the year's correspondence: 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledging the Academy's publications, 197 



Transmitting publications, 71 



Requesting exchanges and the supply of deficiencies, 7 



Invitations and notices, 6 



Announcements of deaths of scientific men, 8 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc., . . 11 



Photographs and biographies of Correspondents, 14 



Letters from Correspondents, 13 



Miscellaneous letters, 35 



Total received, 362 



Communications Forwarded. 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library, 877 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum, 77 



54 




842 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Acknowledging photographs, 14 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies, 50 



Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election, 3 



Letters of sympathy and congratulation, 10 



Letters to Correspondents, 23 



Miscellaneous letters, 36 



Copies of Annual Reports, 262 



Total forwarded, 1,352 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



Six thousand three hundred and ninety-two additions were made 

 to the Library during the past year. Of these 5,078 were pamphlets 

 and parts of periodicals, 1,066 were volumes. There were, in addi- 

 tion, 181 photographs, drawings, etc., and 67 maps. They were 

 derived from the following sources: 



Societies, Museums, etc 2,261 



I. V. Williamson Fund 1,890 



Editors 684 



General Fund 372 



Authors 176 



Mrs. M. T. S. Schaeffer 169 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 102 



J. A. Meigs Fund 94 



Manuel E. Griffith 76 



Wilson Fund 66 



United States Department of 



Interior 65 



Daniel D. Berolzheimer 51 



Comite G^ologique Russe 27 



Imperial Geological Survey of 



Japan 24 



Horatio C. Wood, M.D 20 



University of Chicago 17 



Paul Hagemans 14 



Thomas Biddle, M.D 14 



Trustees of British Museum 14 



G eological Survey of Canada 14 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Agriculture 13 



Ministere des Travaux Publics, 



France 13 



Clarence B. Moore 12 



Sveriges Geologiska Undersok- 



ning 11 



National Committee of Audubon 



Societies 11 



Ministerio de Fomento, Peru 10 



Geological Survey of India 10 



H. A. Pilsbry 10 



William J. Fox 9 



United States Department of 



State 8 



Department of Agriculture, Cape 



of Good Hope 7 



Secretario de Estado, Mexico 7 



Government of India 7 



Department of Mines, Victoria.... 6 



Pennsylvania State Librarjr 6 



Estate of James G. Meigs 6 



H. C. Chapman, M.D 5 



Albert I, of Monaco 5 



Department of the Interior, Can- 

 ada 5 



Library of Congress 4 




1904.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



843 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 4 



United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 4 



Conchological Section, Academy.. 4 

 Department of Mines, New South 



Wales 4 



United States War Department.. 3 



Botanical Survey of India 3 



Instituto Geologico de Mexico 3 



Wisconsin Geological and Nat- 

 ural History Survey 3 



Kommission zur Wissenschaft- 

 lichen Untersuchungen der 



Deutsclien Meere in Kiel 3 



Edward Potts 3 



United States Commission of Fish 



and Fisheries 2 



Alfred Sharpless 2 



Trustees, Bernice Pauahi Bishop 



Museum 2 



Royal Society 2 



Vlaamsch Natuur-en Genesskun- 



digCongres 2 



Geological Survey of New Jersey.. 2 



Monsieur le Due de Loubat 2 



Danish Government 2 



Department of Geology and Nat- 

 ural History, Indiana 2 



Bureau of Geology and Mines, 

 Missouri 2 



United States Coast and Geodetic 

 Survey 



Bureau of American Ethnology.. 



J. A. G. Rehn 



Botanical Garden, Kew 



Howard Crawley 



S. Raymond Roberts 



P. P. Calvert, Ph.D 



Department of Public Gardens, 

 etc., Jamaica 



Martin I. J. Grifhn 



Museo Nacional de Mexico 



Dr. H. Burgin 



F. J. Keeley 



Philippine Government Board in 

 the United States 



Norske Gradmalingskommission.. 



Geological Survey of Alabama 



Free Public Museum, Liverpool.. 



R. Accademia Petrarca di Arezzo 



Miss A. R. Murphy 



Home Secretary's Office, Queens- 

 land 



Council of the Fridtjof Nansen 

 Fund for the Advancement of 

 Science 



Surveyor General's Department, 

 Natal 



Philippine Weather Bureau 



Iowa Geological Survey 



They have been assigned to the following departments of the Library : 



Geography 36 



Bibliography 27 



Mineralogy 17 



Helminthology 17 



Journals 4,738 



Botany 466 



Geology 330 



General Natural History 134 



Ornithology 83 



Ichthyology 76 



Voyages and Travels 71 



Entomology 70 



Agriculture 67 



Anatomy and Physiology 52 



Conchology 47 



Mammalogy 46 



Anthropology 43 



Physical Science.. 



Herpetology 



Chemistry 



Medicine 



Encylcopedias 



Philology 



Mathematics 



Unclassified 



12 

 9 

 6 

 4 

 4 

 3 

 2 



22 



Shelf-lists of the special departments of the Library were compiled 

 in 1885, 1886 and 1887. A careful comparison of the books on the 




844 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



shelves with these lists leaves nineteen works unaccounted for. With 

 the exception of two volumes of bound pamphlets and four of somewhat 

 antiquarian interest, they are recent works of small pecimiary value 

 which can readily be replaced. 



That a like account of stock may be taken of the journals and 

 periodicals it will be necessary that a similar shelf-list be made of this 

 department. This will be a work of some mao;nitude and of undoubted 

 importance. It is hoped that it may be accomplished next A^ear. 



Ten hundred and twenty-six volumes have been bound, and 72 maps 

 trimmed, backed with linen and added to the collection. 



A collection of twenty-six catalogues, announcements, etc., issued by 

 the University of Athens, were transferred to the library of the Univer- 

 sity of Pennsylvania; 3 volumes and 13 pamphlets on theology to the 

 Seminary of St. Charles Borromeo, 19 volumes and 175 pamphlets 

 on miscellaneous literature to the Free Lil)rary of Philadelphia. An 

 accumulation of 103 State documents, in no way related to the 

 Academy's work, were returned to Harrisburg. 



A set of fine mahogany cases, formerly containing the library of the 

 late Dr. Charles Schaeffer, has been presented to the Academy by Mrs. 

 Schaeffer. They have been placed in the Council room, replacing those 

 received in 1895 with the Meigs librar}^, and great!}" improve the 

 appearance of the apartment. 



As heretofore, I am glad to acknowledge the intelligent service of 

 my assistant, Mr. William J. Fox, in all departments of the library 

 work. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The collections in the care of the Curators are in an excellent state 

 of preservation, with all the data carefully recorded. During the 

 past year important progress has been made in the details of arrange- 

 ment and identification. 



Additions and alterations to the heating i)lant have permitted the 

 heating of the Museum. Many needed repairs have been made to 

 the roof and other parts of the building. 



Additional window-shades have been placed in the Museiun and in 

 the alcoholic department to protect the specimens from the light. 



The Council room has been completely renovated and handsomely 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 845 



furnished with mahogany book cases, the gift of ]VIrs. Charles Schaeffcr, 

 who has hkewise presented a lantern and screen. 



The grounds adjoining the Museum have been sown with grass and 

 carefully tended during the year, greatly improving their appearance. 



In the Museum the installation of plate glass and mahogany cases 

 has continued, 3,500 cubic feet of exhibition space having been pro- 

 vided during the year for mammals, birds and invertebrates. An 

 oak wall-case has been placed in the Archaeological department and 

 the w^oodwork of most of the old cases has been refinished. Numerous 

 storage cases for birds, mammals, insects, plants and mollusks have 

 been purchased. 



Through the liberality of Mr. Clarence B. Moore, Messrs. Stewardson 

 Brown and H. W. Fowler were sent on a six-weeks' trip to the south- 

 western Florida keys in search of specimens of Ligiius to supplement 

 a valuable series collected and presented by Mr. Moore from the 

 eastern and western coasts and adjacent keys. Though unsuccessful 

 in its immediate object, the expedition obtained valuable collections 

 of fishes, plants, etc. Later Mr. Moore sent out a second expedition, 

 securing a series of the desired mollusks. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry spent two months in Cuba investigating the mol- 

 luscan fauna in the interests of the Academy, and Mr. J. A. G. Rehn 

 was engaged for one month in collecting insects and birds in southern 

 Georgia. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has added a number of valuable specimens to 

 his collection of Indian antiquities from Florida. Among other notable 

 gifts of the year may be mentioned a large series of Indian implements, 

 plants, birds and minerals, the collection of the late Dr. Charles Schaeffer, 

 presented by Mrs. Schaeffer, a collection of ethnological material from 

 Lieut. Frederick Schober, and numerous valuable specimens of mam- 

 mals, birds and reptiles from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia. 

 Several important collections have also been secured by purchase. 



Besides the work detailed in the appended reports of the Sections, 

 Mr. Fowler has continued the arrangement and identification of the 

 fishes, and made numerous local collections. 



Dr. Moore has cared for and added to the helminthological collection. 



Dr. Pilsbry and Mr. Vanatta have made important advances in the 

 identification and arrangement of the mollusca. The report of the 

 Special Curator of this dejiartment is added. 



Mr. Rehn has cleaned the greater part of the small mammal skulls 

 belonging to the Rhoads and Bunnell collections, upward of 3,000 being 

 thus added to the study series. 




846 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Mr. Stone, with the assistance of the Jessup students, has rearranged 

 the entire series of reptiles and batrachians, reUeving their overcrowded 

 condition, and has labelled and tagged with metal numbers the entire 

 series of Garter Snakes, as well as all recent accessions. Twelve 

 thousand metal tags have been prepared and the work of tagging the 

 whole collection will be pushed as rapidly as possible. 



Miss H. N. Wardle has been constantly engaged in labelling, cata- 

 loguing and arranging the archaeological collections, rendering them 

 much more instructive to the student and visitor. 



The preparator, Mr. McCadden, has mounted a number of mammals, 

 notably an African Buffalo, and has prepared many specimens for the 

 study collections. 



Besides the services rendered by the Museiun staff and the students 

 of the Jessup Fund, the Curators are indebted to Dr. Philip P. Calvert, 

 Mr. Erich Daecke, Mr. H. W. Wenzel, Mr. H. L.Viercck and Mr. E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr., for assistance in the Entomological department. 



The Anti-Tuberculosis Society, Philadelphia Botanical Club, Nomen- 

 clature Committee Botanical Club A. A. A. S., Mycological Club, 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Pennsylvania Audubon Society 

 and Delaw^are Valley Naturalists' Union have held meetings in the 

 Academy building during the year. 



The collections have been extensively studied by visiting specialists, 

 while material has been loaned to the following: Robert Ridgway, 

 H. C. Oberholser, G. S. Miller, Jr., E. B. Williamson, O. P. Hay, C. F. 

 Sands, T. H. Montgomery, Jr., E. S. Steele, W. B. Scott, Florence 

 Bascom, W. E. Meehan, James H. Lambert, J. F. Holt, C. V. Piper, 

 E. L. Morris, W. B. Clarke, Paul Bartsch, J. W. Harshberger, Lawrence 

 Bruner, H. W. Fowler, J. A. Allen and A. E. Ortman. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



Curator. 



Report of the Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca, 



The accessions to the collection of mollusks during 1904 have ex- 

 ceeded in number those of any year since the reception of the A. D. 

 Brown collection in 1S87. Specimens have been received from 78 

 sources, the most valuable or extensive being the following: 



A series of 330 lots of shells from the keys and adjacent mainland of 

 Florida, from Mr. Clarence B. Moore, part collected by his own party, 

 part by others sent by him to collect mollusks. This is by far 

 the most extensive series of mollusks ever obtained on the Florida 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 847 



keys. The specimens have been determined and studied, and it is 

 hoped that the results, suitably illustrated, will be published during the 

 coming year. 



A series of Japanese mollusks, some 650 lots, received from Mr. Y. 

 Hirase, of Kyoto, has also been studied, but only the new forms have 

 been publislied, comprising about 140 new species and about 30 new 

 subspecies. 



Mr. J. H. Ferriss has generously divided his valuable Arizona col- 

 lections with us. The study of this material, with that collected by 

 Mr. FerrLss and the Special Curator in 1903, is nearly complete. An 

 unexpectedly large number of new and interesting forms were found. 



Early in the year an attempt was made to increase our collection of 

 fresh-water bivalves of the genus Pisidium. Some 70 lots were 

 obtained from various correspondents, 10 of them cotypes and a large 

 number of them topotypes. With the specimens already in our pos- 

 session, these additions probably make our collection the most com- 

 plete in existence. 



A series of the mollusks of the Alabama river system, collected this 

 year by Mr. H. H. Smith, has been purchased. It consists of about 

 17,000 specimens. These remain to be determined and installed. 



During the spring the Special Curator explored a portion of central 

 Cuba for mollusks, obtaining a collection of some 500 lots, about 10,000 

 specimens. This collection also remains to be studied. 



The chief work in the Museum has been the revision of the African 

 Achatinidce. Much other work of correction and relabelling has been 

 done in connection with studies on new" material. 



Four papers have been published in the Proceedings of ithe Academy 

 by the Special Curator, one with Mr. Vanatta, and one in conjunction 

 with Mr. Hirase, while ten have been published by the Special Curator 

 in the Nautilus. These have chiefly dealt with the classification and 

 description of new material. 



The time of the Special Curator has been largely occupied, as hitherto, 

 in the publication of the Manual of Conchology. The volume for this 

 year treats of the African family Achatinidce. 



The efficient assistance of Mr. E. G. Vanatta in the work of the 

 department throughout the year should be acknowledged, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca. 




848 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section has this 3^ear kept up its meetings and field excursions 

 even more zealously than last year, with about double the number of 

 communications, one-third larger attendance on the meetings, 

 one-half more on the excursions, and an increase of more than 

 one-quarter in membership. 



There have been nine meetings, with an average attendance of over 

 11. Communications were made by Miss Emma Walter, on old 

 stream-beds; by B. S. Lyman, on the immense time indicated 

 by erosion; by Prof. B. L. Miller, on graphite occurring in Chester 

 County, Pa.; by B. S. Lyman, on the Bechtel graphite mine, near 

 Boyerstown, Berks County, Pennsylvania; by Miss Mary S. Holmes, 

 on the A'irginia Natural Bridge; by B. S. Lyman, on topography 

 an aid to geology; by Miss Emma Walter, on clay near Saylorsburg, 

 Monroe County, Pennsylvania; by IMr. F. J. Keeley, on the trap of 

 Cape Ann, Massachusetts; by Miss ]\Iary S. Holmes, on some prob- 

 lems suggested by the excursion along the Perkiomen; by ]\Ir. T. 

 Chalkley Palmer, on serpentines of Delaware County, Pennsylvania; 

 by Mr. F. J. Keeley, on serpentines under the microscope; and about 

 20 shorter communications, besides various discussions. 



There were 7 field excursions, with an average attendance of 43. 

 The excursions visited: 1. The crystalline rocks and their minerals, 

 particularly kaolin, between Hockessin, Delaware, and Kennett 

 Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania; 2. The crystalline rocks near 

 Glen Mills and Lenni, on Chester Creek, and at Mineral Hill, Delaware 

 County, Pennsylvania; 3. The crystalline rocks near Avondale, Strath- 

 Haven, Rose Valley and ]\Icdia, Delaware County, Pennsylvania; 

 4. Portions of the New Red Perkasie shales and Pottstown shales and 

 trap, from Lodel Creek to Spring jNIountain, near the Perkiomen, and 

 Schwenksville, ^lontgomery County, Pennsylvania; 5. Portions of the 

 New Red Norristown shales and Gwynedd shales, and some of the 

 gneiss southward, between Noble Station and Doylestown; 6. The 

 crystalline rocks near Newtown Square, Delaware County, Pennsyl- 

 vania; 7. The crystalline rocks between Newtown Square and Media, 

 Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 



The membership of the Section has increased by ten in all, namely, 

 seven contributors and three members of the Academy, one of whom 

 became a member through his interest in the Section. The Section 




190-4.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 849 



now contains 27 members of the Academy and 21 contributors, or 48 

 in all. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 

 1905: 



Director, Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director, George Vaux, Jr. 



Recorder and Secretary, . . . Miss Mary S. Holmes. 



Treasurer, . . ... . Miss Emma Walter. 



Conservator, Frank J. Keeley. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, 



Ben J. Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



The numerical strength of the Section is the same as that of last 

 year, two members ha\dng withdrawn and two having been admitted. 



The interest in the regular sessions has been increased by the dis- 

 cussions at the informal meetings which have formed a pleasant feature 

 of the year's work. Numerous communications have been made, 

 among which may be especially mentioned those of Mr. F. J. Keeley. on 

 various accessories of microscopic manipulation; by Mr. T. C. Palmer on 

 Trachelomonas; by Dr. D. E. Owen on dredgings in Saco Bay, and by 

 Mr. Hugo Bilgram on Myxomycetes. Every member present has made 

 an effort to offer at each meeting some object or subject which, if not 

 new, has at least stimulated the work of others. A special topic which 

 has occupied the attention of the Section is that of the microscopic 

 structiu'e of rocks. 



The Conservator reports that the instruments belonging to the Sec- 

 tion are in good working order, and the following additions have been 

 made during the past year : One Zentmayer Portal^le Histological Stand , 

 one Dissecting ^Microscope, one Beck Microscope Lamp, one Acme 

 Microscope Lamp, one Balance, two large Slide Cabinets with Drawers, 

 four small Slide Cabinets with Trays, some miscellaneous accessories 

 and over 500 mounted slides, all presented by Mrs. Charles Shaeffer. 

 One hundred and fifty-eight slides, prepared by L. Woolman, were 

 presented by Mr. F. J. Keele}^ 



One Tolles J^-inch Objective was purchased. 



The officers elected for the following year are as follows : 




850 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Director, . 

 Vice-Director, . 

 Conservator, 

 Recorder, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 



J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 



F. J. Keeley. 



C. S. Boyer. 



S. L. Schumo. 



Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



The Entomological Section. 



Ten meetings were held with an average attendance of twelve per- 

 sons. The communications made were of scientific interest, and have 

 been published in the Entomological News and Proceedings of the Ento- 

 mological Section. This journal has been continued and Volume X\' 

 completed with 352 pages and 20 plates. One hundred and five book 

 or Schmitt boxes have been purchased, and three of the new tin pest- 

 proof cases to hold them. Rearrangements have been made of por- 

 tions of the collections and new material added by gift, purchase and 

 exchange, to the number of over 7,000 specimens. The collection of 

 Orthoptera has been increased by the presentation of nearly 500 

 specimens, the gift of ]\Ir. Morgan Hebard. This order has also been 

 em-iched by the reception of over 700 specimens from Dr. Henri de 

 Saussure, containing many genera and species new to the collection. 



Valuable additions have been made to the cabinets by purchase, 

 including 766 Orthoptera from Japan and the Loo Choo Islands; 274 

 Orthoptera from the Philippines; 1,000 Hymenoptera from Mexico; 

 342 Chilean Orthoptera, and 2,000 insects from Georgia, collected for 

 the Academy by Mr, J. A. G. Rehn. 



Three associates have been elected, and at the annual meeting, held 

 December 22, the following persons were elected officers to serve for 

 1905: 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, . 



Recorder and Conservator, 



Secretary, . 



Puhlication Committee, 



Philip Ijaurent. 

 H. W. Wenzel. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Frank Haimbach. 

 C. W. Johnson, 

 J. H. Ridings. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 




1904.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 851 



The Botanical Section. 



During the year much progress has been made in the arrangement 

 of the Herbarium, the collections now being in better condition and 

 more readily accessible than ever before. 



The erection of new cases in the centre of the south herbarium room 

 has resulted in the rearrangement of all the flow^ering plants, thus 

 relieving the congested condition of many of the cases. 



The large case containing seeds, etc., formerly in the south room, has 

 been moved to the north gallery room, where it is readily accessible 

 to any one desiring to study its contents. 



Over 18,000 sheets have been added to the collection during the 

 year, acquired principally by purchase and exchange, although many 

 liberal donations have been received. 



These include the herbarium of the late Dr. Charles Schaeffer, con- 

 taining his collections for many seasons in the British Columbia 

 region, presented by Mrs. Mary S. Shaeffer;and the gift by Dr. Ida 

 A. Keller of her entire herbarium, including a number of plants from 

 Europe. 



Smaller collections were received from Mr. Charles S. Williamson, 

 from the eastern United States; Mr. Benjamin H. Smith, from south 

 Florida; the United States National Museum and Messrs. Witmer 

 Stone, E. G. Vanatta, Dr. Campbell E. Waters, Edward Potts, Henry S. 

 Conard, and the Conservator. These are noted in detail in the 

 Additions to the Museum. 



The Section has purchased a collection of 178 sheets of Washington 

 plants from Mr. Henry S. Conard, and 365 sheets of California plants 

 from Mr. A. A. Heller, the collections of the past season, containing 

 many novelties. 



The important collection made by Mr. Herbert H. Smith in the 

 Santa Marta region of Colombia has been purchased by the Academy, 

 and numbers 2,500 sheets; also the West African collections of Dr. 

 Pritzel, numbering 1,776 sheets, and the herbarium of Alexander 

 MacElwce, acquired through purchase and exchange, numbering 

 approximately 10,000 sheets, a considerable proportion of which are 

 mounted. 



The Academy's expeditions added 450 sheets, as follows : 



Thomasville, Georgia, 50 sheets, collected by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn; 

 Cuba and southern Florida, 125 and 25 respectively, collected by Dr. 

 H. A. Pilsbry, and from the Florida keys, 250 sheets, collected by the 

 Conservator. 




852 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



All the specimens received have been poisoned, and a considerable 

 nnniber mounted and distributed through the Herbarium. 



The series of field excursions conducted during April and early May 

 by the Conservator were largely attended. 



^luch assistance was rendered during the year to students and 

 visiting botanists desiring to consult the collections. 



The Philadelphia Botanical Club has continued to hold its meetings 

 during the year, its members having contributed over 400 sheets to 

 the local Herbarium, which collection has been placed in excellent 

 condition through the unremitting labors of Mr. Samuel S. ^^an Pelt. 



At the meeting of the Section held December 13, 1904, the following 

 were elected as officers for the ensuing year : 



Director, Mr. Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, Mr. Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, Dr. Ida A. Keller. 



Secretary, Mr. John T. Pennypacker. 



Treasurer and Conservator, . . Stewardson Brown. 

 Respectfully submitted , 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



The Ornithological Section. 



The ornithological collections of the Academy were never in better 

 condition nor more accessible to the student than at present. 



During the past year three additional exhibition cases have been 

 erected in the new gallery, permitting the transfer of the entire series 

 of Raptorial birds, as well ag the Pigeons. The rearrangemcait and 

 labelling of the former group has been completed and many duplicate 

 specimens not required for exhibition have been arranged in the study 

 series. At the present time only the Passerine and Picarian birds 

 remain in the old building, and the majority of these will be transferred 

 next year. 



Thirteen additional tin storage cases and ten wooden cases have been 

 provided for the accommodation of the study collection, greatly 

 facilitating the arrangement of many groups, especially the birds of 

 prey, and providing needed space for the numerous accessions. 



The Conservator has examined practically all the large bird skins 

 during the year, and carefully rearranged the old unmounted material 

 which has been listed to facilitate consultation. 



Many important additions have been made to the collection, fore- 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



853 



most among Avhich is a series of 360 Philippine birds purchased by the 

 Academy; a handsome collection of mounted Humming-birds, the gift 

 of Cahdn Pardee, Esq., and collections from the West Indies, Colorado 

 and California, presented respectivel}^ by Dr. J. Percy Moore, Robert 

 T. Young and W. 0. Emerson. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has continued to hold its 

 meetings at the Academy, and has done much to stimulate ornitho- 

 logical study. The collections have been largely consulted during the 

 year, and considerable assistance has been rendered to visiting orni- 

 thologists. 



The Conservator would acknowledge valuable assistance in the care 

 of the collections to Mr. Paul L. Lorrilliere. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 19, 1904, the 

 following officers were elected : 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Secretary, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer and Conservator, 



Spencer Trotter, ]^1.D. 

 George S. Morris. 

 William A. vShryock. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Witmer Stone. 



WiTMER Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1905 was held with the fol- 

 lowing result : 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, .... 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D, 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 E. G. Conklin, Ph.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Henry A. Pilsbrj^, Sc.D. 

 William S. Vaux, Jr. 




854 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Councillors to serve three years, 



Committee on Accounts, 



Councillor to serve for unexpired 

 term of two years, 



Thomas H. Fenton, M.D. 

 Edwin S. Dixon, 

 John Cadwalader, 

 WilHam Sellers. 

 Charles Morris, 

 Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, 

 John G. Rothermell, 

 Howard Crawley. 



Frederick Prime. 



COUNCIL FOR 1905. 



Ex-ofjicio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Edward J. Nolan, M.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., and William S. Vaux, Jr. 



To serve Three Years. — ^Thomas Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, John 

 Cadwalader and William Sellers. 



To serve Two Years. — Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 

 Thomas Biddle, M.D., and Frederick Prime. 



To serve One Year. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles B. Penrose, ^I.D.. 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to the Curators, 



Taxidermist, 

 Jessiip Fund Students, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Skinner, M.I)., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn, 

 H. Newell Wardle. 

 David McCadden. 



H. Newell Wardle, 

 J. A. G. Rehn, 

 Paul L. Lorrilliere. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 855 



Janitors, Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Ac])ley. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1904. 



MEMBERS. 



January 19. — Harold Sellers Colton, James K. Clarke, Walter B. 

 Smith, William INIorgan, Gilbert Van Ingen, Frank P. Hendley. 



March 15. — Henry Tucker, M.D., Waklemar Lee. 



April 19.— Everett F. Phillips, Herbert Guy Kribs, Henry R. ]\I. 

 Landis, M.D. 



May 17. — Henry D. Jordan. M.D., James Harold Austin. 



October 18.— Sirs. Charles Rol^erts, M. F. McDonough, Charles D. 

 Hart, M.D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



October 18. — Frantisek Vijdovsky, of Prague; A. A. W. Hubrecht, 



of Utrecht. 




856 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



ArCH-EOLOGY. 



Bishop Museum (in exchange). A collection of tapa cloths, Hawaiian Islands. 



H. W. Hand. A piece of tapa cloth. 



Allen Irwin. Collection of boomerangs, Solomon Island spears, shield, etc. 



Clarence B. Moore. Numerous specimens from the Florida mounds. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Collection of Indian baskets, etc., and Chilkat 

 blanket. 



' Lt. Frederick Schober. Twenty-two lots of archteological specimens, 

 Samoa, Alaska, Japan, etc 



Mrs. James M. Willcox. Indian vessel, mound at Mecklenberg, \a.. 



Mammals. 



Jacob Aschenbrand. Mounted Fox Terrier. 



W. E. Hughes, M.D. Little Chief Hare {Ochotona princeps), Idaho. 



P. L. LoRiLLiERE. Muskrat (Fiber zibethicus) , Collingdale, Pennsylvania. 



Charles J. Pennock. Six Muskrats, Delaware. 



R. A. F. Penrose, Jr. Mounted Jack Rabbit. 



Purchased. Five skins and skulls of Oryzomys palusU-is, Salem county, New 

 Jersey; three Deer, two Peccaries and several skulls, from Mexico. 



Purchased (for mounting). Puma (Felis concolor oregonensis) , two Musk 

 Oxen {Ovibos moschatus wardi), three Mountain Sheep (Ovis canadensis crem- 

 nobates), one Mindoro Buffalo (Bubalis mindorensis), male Bison (Bison bison). 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy Expedition to Georgia) . Two skins and skulls of 

 Lepus floridanus, Thomasville, Georgia. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. Two black Muskrats (Fiber zibethicus), Audubon, New 

 Jersey. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Human skeleton, mounted. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer (on deposit). Collection of mounted heads of mam- 

 mals and two skins. 



E. G. Vanatta. Four skulls of Muskrats (Fiber zibethicus) , Chester town, 

 Maryland. 



C. S. Welles. Deer blouse (Peromyscus leucopus), Delaware county, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted: Flat-headed Cat (Felis planiceps), Cat Squirrel (Sciurus niger), Long- 

 tailed Porcupine (Hystrix longicaudata) , Spotted Dasyure (Dasyurus inaculatus), 

 Common Dasyure (D. viverrinus), Prong-horned Antelope young (Antilocapra 

 a??ien'cano), African Buffalo (J5os caffer cequinoctialis) . To be mounted: Kanga- 

 roo (Macropus robustus), Semnopithecus sp., Thick-tailed Gallago (Gallago crassi- 

 caudata), Mongoose Lemur (Lemur mongoz), Sambur Deer (Rusa unicolor). Skin 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 857 



and skull: Two Vulpine Phalangers (Trichosurus vulpecula), Texan Wild Cat 

 {Lynx ruff us texensis), Stanley's Chevrotain {Tragidus stanleyanus), Spotted 

 ChevTOtain (Tragulus memmina), Binturong (Ardictis binturong), Siberian Mar- 

 mot {Arctomys bobac), young Puma (Felis concolor), Indian Antelope (Anti- 

 lope cervicapra), Kangaroo Rat (Dipodomys sp.), Deer Mouse (Peromyscus tex- 

 anus). Skin and skeleton: Female Bison {Bison bison), Formosan Macaque 

 {Macacus cyclopis), two Rocky Mountain Goats {Oreamnos montanus), skull of 

 young Bison {Bison bison), skin of Black Bear {Ursus americanus) , skeleton 

 of Antelope (Antilocapra atnericmia) . Alcoholic: Kch'idna, {Tachyglossa aculeata) , 

 young Vulpine Phalanger {Trichosurus vulpecula), young Pig-tailed Macaque 

 {Macams nemestrinus) , young Kangaroo {Macropus robustus). 



Birds. 



E. Allen. Wood Thrush {Hylocichla mustelina). 



C. B. Moore (collected by S. Brown and H. W. Fowler). Skins of Centurus 

 carolinus and Ardea occidentalis. 



W. O. Emerson, Seventy-five skins of Californian birds. 



W. E. Hughes, M.D. Two skins of Dendroica coerulea and two of Buteo line- 

 atus, Choptank Mills, Delaware. 



William M. Mpigs. Two skins of Caracara from Florida. 



J. Percy Moore. Collection of bird skins from Jamaica and Bahamas. 



Calvin Pardee. A collection of mounted Humming-birds and a Lyre-bird. 



C. J. Pennock. Three Grebes {Podilymbus podiceps), Delaware. 



Purchased. Three hundred and seventy skins of Philippine birds. 



Carlos S. Reed. Two bird's eggs, Chili. 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy Expedition to Georgia). Collection of bird skins, 

 Thomasville, Georgia. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Collection of mounted birds. 



Mrs. F. Schick. Case of mounted birds. 



A. B. VAN DER Weilen. Four skins of Wyoming birds. 



Joseph Willcox. Skin of White-tailed Kite {Elanvs leucurus). 



Robert T. Young. Fifteen bird skins, Boulder, Colorado. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Skins of the following: Pternistes 

 leucoscepus, Cereopsis novce-hollandice, Cissa chinensis, Ajiser anser, Trupialis 

 superciliosus, Zonotrichia leucophrys, Icterus buUocki, Ajaia ajaia, Dryonastes 

 chinensis, Anthropoides virgo, Euphonia laniirostris. 



Reptiles. 



Albert Alber. Horned Toad {Phrynosoma blainvillei) . 



William M. Beeckley. Tantilla coronata, Florida. 



Mrs. p. p. Calvert. Rattlesnake and House Snake swallowing Water Snake, 

 Pennsylvania. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Specimens of Menobranchus and Siren. 



Otto Eggeling. Two Chondrotes tenebrosus, Felton, Santa Cruz county, Cali- 

 fornia. 



H. W. Fowler. Snapping Turtle {Chelydra serpentina), Holmesburg, Phila- 

 delphia. 



55 




858 PROCEEDINGS OF TPIE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



H. W. Fowler and Thomas D. Keim. Several reptiles, Port Alleghany, Penn- 

 sj'lvania. 



W. E. Hughes, 'M.D. Two specimens of Skinks {Eumeces fasciatus). 



Charles Leby. Phrynosoma hlainvillei. 



Carlos S. Reed. Two specimens of batrachians, Chili. 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy Expedition to Georgia). Collection of reptiles and 

 batrachians, Thomasville, Georgia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Two spiny soft-sheUed Turtles 

 (Aspidonedes spinifer), Zamenis mucosus, Viper sp., Crotalus scutulatus, 

 Rough-eyed Caiman (C. sclerops), Varanus bengalensis. 



Fishes. 



Charles C. Abbott, M.D. Jar of fishes from the vicinity of Trenton, N. J. 



Captain E. E. Bates. Hippocampus, Key West, Florida. 



Dr. Bergen. Gold Fish. 



C. B. Moore (collected by S. Brown and H. W. Fowlerj. Collection of fishes, 

 Florida Keys. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Hippocampus. 



JaivIes K. Clarke. Jar of fishes from Florida. 



H. W. Fowler. Collections of fishes, Holmesburg, Philadelphia; Crosswicks 

 Creek, New Jersey; Neshaminy Falls and Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. 

 Collection of breeding Suckers. Collection of marine fishes, Grassy Sound, New 

 Jersey. Series of fresh-water fishes, Chadd's Ford, Pennsylvania. 



H. W. Fowler and Thomas D. Keim. Six jars of fishes. Port AUeghany, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



H. W. Fowler and Witmer Stone. Collection of fishes from Speedwell, New 

 Jersey. 



William Friedericks. Gold Fish. 



Asa Hodgkins. Jaws of a Shark (Lamna cornutum), Bar Harbor, Maine. 



Philip Laurent. Three dried fishes. 



Leland Stanford University. Large series of Japanese fishes. 



William E. Meehan. Five Sticklebacks. 



Petrel Fishing Company, A collection of fishes from Nantucket. 



C. P. Ray, Jr. Jar of fishes. 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy Expedition to Georgia). Collection of fishes, Thom- 

 asville, Georgia. 



C. Schmalzried. Gold Fish. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. Jar of gobioid fislies, Swatow, China. 



E. I. Simpson. Two fishes, Salem, New Jersey. 



Visitor. Burr Fish, Atlantic City, N. J. 



H. T. Wolf. Two jars of fishes, Dingman's Ferry, Pennsylvania; Moor Gold 

 Fish. 



MOLLUSCA. 



Helen Abbott. Fifteen species of land and fresh-water shells from Lake 

 Minnetonka, Minnesota. 



John A. Allen. Fifty-nine trays of land and fresh-water shells from Maine 

 and Ohio. 




1904.] " NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 859 



Rev. E. H. Ashmun. Seven species of land shells from Arizona, Idaho and 

 Mexico. 



F. C. Baker. Six species of Lyvincca and a Testacella from Illinois. 



P. Bartsch. Polygyra hopetonensis Shutt. from Brighton, Virginia. 



C. E. Beecher. Forty-nine sets of fresh-water shells. 



C. R. BiEDERMAN. Four species of land and fresh-water shells from Arizona. 



A. C. BiLLUPS. Pyramichda alternaia Say from Calhoun Falls, South Carolina. 



Stewardson Brown. Two species of land sliells from York county, Penn- 

 sylvania. 



F. W. Bryant. Physa virgata Gld. from Lakeside, California. 



Owen Bryant. Vitrea lucida Drap. from the Botanical Garden, Bermuda. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Mya arenaria L. and Purpura lapUlus L. from Bar 

 Harbor, Maine. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Five species of moUusca from California and New 

 Mexico. 



George H. Clapp. Fifty-one sets of land shells from Alabama. 



0. Collett. Twenty-five jars of land shells from Ceylon. 



H. S. CoLTON. Thirty-one lots of marine shells from Mt. Desert, Maine. 



Annie P. Cope. Two species of Muricidce from Flint Island. 



W. H. Dall, M.D. Lymncca atkensis Dall from Alaska and six species of 

 Cerion from Bermuda. 



L. E. Daniels. Fifteen trays of American Pisidium and seven species of 

 other American land and fresh-water shells. 



C. Abbott Davis. Thirty-seven sets of Bermuda shells. 



1. N. De Haven. Oreohelix cooperi W. G. B. from Yellowstone Park. 



S. G. Dixon, M.D. Three species of Polygyra and Pyramidula from Cranberry, 

 North Carolina 



J. H. Ferriss. One hundred and forty trays of land shells from Arizona and 

 New Mexico. 



W. H. Fluck. Four species of marine shells from Nicaragua. 



Dr. Grabham. Thirty-one lots of land and marine shells from Madeira. 



H. A. Green. Two species of Polygyra from Tryon, North Carolina. 



R. E. Griffith, M.D. Four species of marine shells. 



G. K. GuDE. Four species of Asiatic land shells. 



A, GuLiCK. Twelve trays of fossil land shells from Bermuda. 



Mrs. Frank Guptil. Odostomia impressa Say and two other marine shells 

 from Osprey, Florida. 



Miss A. C. Hartshorne. One hundred and three trays of Japanese shells. 



H. Heath. One jar of Cymbuliopsis vitrea Heath from Monterey Bay, Cali- 

 fornia. 



Morgan Hebard. Seven species of land shells from Key West, Florida, and 

 Nassau, New Providence. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Three species of Urocoptis from Haiti and Jamaica. 



Junius Henderson. Thirty-one lots of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Colorado. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. Eighty-five sets of fresh- water shells from Alabama. 



Y HiRASE. Six hundred and forty-one species of Japanese land and marine 

 shells. 



William E. Hughes, M.D. Polygyra piychophora from the Bitter Root Moun- 

 tains, Idaho. 




860 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



P. W. Jarvis. Seventy-eight trays of Jamaican Urocoptis. 

 C. W. Johnson. Anoma radiata Chitty from Jamaica. 



T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. Seventeen species of land and fresh-water 

 shells from jMcKean county, Pennsylvania, 



Ida a. Keller, Ph.D. Two species of marine shells from New Jersey. 

 R. J. KiRKLAND, M.D. Twenty-six trays of Pisidium from Michigan. 



C. M. Latourette. Limax maximus L. from Oak Lane, Pennsylvania. 

 Herbert N. Lowe. One Chiton. 



D. N. McCadden. Fulgur perversum L. from Stone Harbor, New Jersey. 

 Mrs. M. C. W. Merrihew. Three species of Muricidce from Newport, Cali- 

 fornia, in exchange. 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D. Eleven species of land and fresh-water 

 shells from Austin, Texas. 



Clarence B. Moore. Three hundred and thirty lots of shells from the 

 Florida Keys and adjacent mainland, including one hundred and fovirteen col- 

 lected by jMessrs. Brown and Fowler. 



A. E. Ortman. Two species of fresh-water sl^ells from Western Pennsylvania 



George A. Phillips, M.D. Zirphoea crispata L., in alcohol from Bar Harbor, 

 Maine. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, Sc.D. Two hundred and seventy trays of shells from Florida. 



George Pine. Two lots of Unio and Ampullaria from Florida. 



John Ponsonby. Dorcasia and Copiocheilus in alcohol. 



Edw. Potts. Twenty-three traj's of marine shells from Tarpon Springs, 

 Florida, collected by W. Beeckley. 



Princeton Patagonian Expedition. Fifty-seven species of marine and 

 fresh-water shells. 



Purchased. A set of Polygyra vannostrandi Bland from Aiken, South Caro- 

 lina; three hundred and thirty-nine trays of Calif ornian shells, collected by H. 

 Hemphill ; large collection of land and fresh-water shells from Alabama. 



P. B. Randolph. Three slugs from Alaska. 



C. Paul Ray, Jr. Six species of land and fresh-water shells from Sparrow 

 Lake, Canada. 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy Expedition to Georgia). Three species of laud and 

 fresh-water shells from Thomasville, Georgia. 



S. N. Rhoads. Thirty-five trays of land and fresh-water shells from Delaware 

 and Mexico. 



John Ritchie, Jr. Eight species of land and fresh-water shells from Nevada, 

 Mauritius and Japan. 



S. Rayjiond Roberts. One specimen of Ampxdlaria and a Hyalea from Japan. 



Mrs. T. E. Ruggles. Nacella mytilina Helb. 



William P. Seal. Planorbis magnificus Pils. from Wilmington, North Caro- 

 lina. 



C. T. Simpson. Pleurodonta gigantea Scop, from Haiti. 



Miss Ruth Spencer. Goniobasis proxima Say from Green River, North Caro- 

 lina. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Eleven trays of Pisidium. 



CuRWEN Stoddart, Jr. PoHniccs heros Say from Front's Neck, Maine. 

 Rev. H. H. Thomas. Nine species of land and marine shells from New Jersey 

 and New York (in exchange). 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 861 



E. G. Vanatta. Philomycus carolinensis Bosc. from New Garden, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



T. Van Hynixg. Twenty-one sets of land and fresh-water shells from Des 

 Moines, Iowa. 



H. L. ViKRECK. Ai-ca and Planorbis from Connecticut and North Carolina. 



Bryant Walker. Eighteen trays of Pisidium and sixteen other fresh-water 

 shells from the Eastern States. 



Rev. W. H. Webster. Calliosioma pellucicbim\al., Devonport, New Zealand. 



H. W. Wenzel. Four Polygyra from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



Joseph Willcox. Forty-nine trays of shells from North Carolina and Florida. 



H. T. Wolf. Five species of land and fresh-water shells from Dingman's 

 Ferry, Pennsylvania. 



Insects. 



Australian Museum. Sixty-seven Orthoptera (exchange). 

 C. F. Baker. Eighty-six Orthoptera, California, Nicaragua. 

 W. J. Baumgartner. Three Orthoptera, Illinois. 

 W. M. Beeckley. One Hemiptera, one Oithoptera, Florida. 



C. R. Beiderman. Two thousand five hundred insects, Arizona (purchased) . 

 AV. L. Blatchley. Ninety-four Orthoptera, Indiana, Florida. 



W, E. Britton. Thirteen Hemiptera, Connecticut. 



P. P. Calvert. Six Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania; ten Hymenoptera, Africa. 



D. M. Castle. Five Coleoptera, Florida; four Hymenoptera. 

 J. D. Chandler. Four Coleoptera. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Fourteen Orthoptera, Colorado; one Hemiptera, New 

 Mexico ; Kermes gillettei type, Colorado. 



E. Daecke. One Lepidoptera, New Jersej' ; one gall, New Jersey ; two Diptera, 

 New Jersey; ten Ijepidoptera, Germany. 



E. Dietrich. Two hundred and seventy-four Orthoptera, Philippines (pur- 

 chased) . 



S. G. Dixon. Three Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania. 

 Charles Dury. Four Coleoptera, Ohio. 

 SiGMUND Graenicher. Twenty Hymenoptera, Wisconsin, 

 G. M. Greene. Four Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



F. Haimbach. Four Diptera, Philadelphia. 



R. V. Harvey. Twenty-seven Hymenoptera, Colombia. 



M. Hebard. Two Lepidoptera, Michigan; two hundred and seventy-four 

 Orthoptera, North America; two hundred and eleven Orthoptera, Georgia, 

 Florida. 



Y. HiRASE. Three hundred and twentj'-five Orthoptera, Japan; four hundred 

 and thirty-one Orthoptera, Loo Choo Islands (purchased). 



H. Hornig. Five Lepidoptera, New Jersey. 



W. D. Hunter. Twenty-five Coleoptera, Texas. 



Louis Jackson. One Orthoptera, Philadelphia. 



University of Kansas. Sixteen Orthoptera. 



W. D. Kearfoot. Forty Lepidoptera, United States. 



P. Laurent. One Lepidoptera, Philadelphia. 



J. F. McClendon. One thousand Hymenoptera from Mexico (purchased) ; 

 six hundred and forty-six insects from Mexico. 




862 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Marian Mackenzie. One Lepidoptera, Cuba. 



W. M. Meigs. Five Lepidoptera, Florida. 



L. W. Mengel. Nine Lepidoptera, East Indies. ( 



L. Navas. Eighty-two Odonata, Spain. 



W. D. Pierce. One Coleoptera, Nebraska. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Ten insects, Cuba. 



C. S. Reed. Tliree hundred and forty-two Orthoptera, ChiU (purchased) ; 

 sixty-two insects, Chih. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Two thousand insects, Georgia (Academj' expedition) ; one 

 Coleoptera, Philadelphia. 



Wirt Robinson. Twenty-four insects, Cuba. 



Henri de Saussure. Seven hundred and sixty-seven Orthoptera, Mundus. 



Charles Schaffer. Three Coleoptera, Texas. 



E. A. ScHWARZ. One Coleoptera, Arizona. 



W. J. Seal. Twenty-five Diptera, New Jersey. 



F. Sharpless. Two insects. South America. 



Henry Skinner.. Fifteen Lepidoptera, New Jersey; nineteen Lepidoptera, 

 British Columbia. 



B. H. Smith. Ninety-six insects, Florida. 

 WiTMEE Stone. One Orthoptera, Pennsylvania. 

 H. L. ViERECK. One Diptera, New Jersey. 



H. W. Wenzel. One hundred and three Coleoptera, Pennsylvania; seventeen 

 Lepidoptera, New Jersey; two Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



Joseph Willcox. Thirty-six insects, Florida; twenty-five insects, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



J. D. Windsor. Ten Hymenoptera, Pennsylvania. 



H. J. Wolf. Fifteen insects. United States. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Helen Abbott. Helicopsyche arenifera, Lake Minnetonka, ^Minnesota. 

 John A. Allen. Cjjpris, Nesqually, Washington. 

 Capt. E. E. Bates. Palinurus, Key West, Florida. 

 Francis Beeckley. Limulus, Tarpon Springs, Florida. 

 William M. Beeckley. Spirobolus marginatus, Florida. 



C. Biederman. One bottle Allolohophora. 



H, C. Chapman, M.D. Three parasitic Worms, two vials of parasitic Nema- 

 todes. 



H. W. Fowler. MacrobdeUa decora, Trenton, New Jersey; Ascaris and 

 Placobdella ; Camharus hartoyii and robustus, Port Alleghatiy, Pennsylvania. 



G. M. Gray. Autohjtus cornutus. 



Miss A. C. Hartshorne. Two lots of Crustacea, Sagami, Japan. 



Junius Henderson. Helicopsyche arenifera, Colorado. 



T. H. Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D. Sabelleria, Florida. 



J. P. Moore. Forty-five bottles of Polycha;ta, fifty-seven bottles of Nereidae, 

 ninety-three bottles of Leeches. 



Clarence B. Moore. Twelve lots of invertebrates from Florida Keys, col- 

 lected by Messrs. Brown and Fowler. 



Miss Caroline W. Murphy. Starfish, Point Pleasant, New Jersey. 




1904.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 863 



A. E. Ortman. Collection of Crawfish. 



Charles B. Penrose, M.D. Four species of Xematodes and Cestodes, two 

 parasites. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Nineteen lots of invertebrates from the United States and 

 Cuba. 



Edward Potts. Scorpion and Siphosto7na fuscum, Florida; collection of 

 mounted slides of fresh-water slides, being the types of his species. 



Maj. Robert P. Robins. Two glass Sponges, Philippines. 



Mrs. Chas. Schaffer. Collection of microscopical slides. 



James Tague. Phagocata gracilis, Philadelphia. 



H, A. Linville. Placobdella rugosa. 



U. S. Fish Commission. Four bottles of Polycheeta, including co-types of 

 three species, several bottles of Serpulidse and Pcecilasma kaempferi. 



H. L. ViERECK. Two specimens of Naidilograp.'ius minutus, Cape May, New 

 Jersey. 



B. Walker. Rhynchodemus, Michigan. 



Joseph WiLLCox. A'^ems, Florida; Erpohdella puncto^o. Little Sarasota Bay, 

 Florida. 



Fossil Invertebrates. 



R. E. Griffith, M.D. A set of Pentremites. 



Frank J. Keeley. A specimen of rock containing bones and shells from 

 Durham Furnace, Pennsylvania. 



A. L. McDonald. Thirty-six trays of fossils from St. Joseph, Missouri (in 

 exchange) . 



T. Van Hyning. Polygyra albolabris Say from a deposit opposite Fort Madi- 

 son, Iowa. 



Joseph Willcox. Polygyra carpenteriana in rock from Manatee county, 

 Florida, and Mitra carolinensis Conr. from Duplin county, North Carolina. 



Lewis Woolman. Fifteen fossils from United States and England. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 

 Harvey J. Mitchell. Fossil fish remains. 



Plants. 



American Philosophical Society (on deposit). Collections of plants from 

 the herbaria of Muhlenberg, Barton, Lewis and Clarke, Short, Pursh, Baldwin, 

 Mary Forest, and five volumes marked Herbarium Britanicuyn by G. Don, and 

 Herbarium Americanum, 1795, all received in 1897, and one package of Muhlen- 

 berg Mosses, received in 1904. 



Botanical Section. One hundred and seventy-eight Washington plants, 

 three hundred and sixty-five Californian plants. 



Stewardson Brown. One hundred and fifty species, Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey. 



Henry S. Conard. Artemisia gnaphaloides. 



Campbell E. Waters, Ph.D. Fifty sheets of ferns. 




864 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



, Ida a. Keller, Ph.D. One thousand five hundred sheets of plants in case. 



Edward Potts. Flowers of Grevillea robusta. 



Purchased. H. H. Smith collection, two thousand five hundred sheets, from 

 Santa Marta, Colombia; Alexander McElwee herbarium, ten thousand sheets, 

 mainly North America. 



John T. Reeder. Agaricus from mine at Calumet, Michigan. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer, One thousand plants from British Columbia, her- 

 barium of Dr. Charles Schaeffer. 



' Benjamin H. Smith. One hundred and eighty-eight Florida plants and two 

 European species. 



WiTMER Stone. Twenty-nine species from Choptank Mills, Delaware, and 

 fifty-eight sheets of local Violets. 



U. S. National Museum. Forty-three sheets of Fungi, Williams collection. 



E. G. Vanatta. Sixty-five species of ^Maryland plants. 



C. S. Williamson. Two hundred and seventy-two North American plants. 



Rev. Milton Waldo. Distorted branch of Water Beech. 



J. A. G. Rehn (Academy expedition to Georgia). Fifty sheets. 



H, A. PiLSBRY (Academy expedition to Cuba). One hundred and forty-eight 

 sheets. 



Stewardson Brown (Clarence B. Moore expedition to Florida). Two hun- 

 dred and fifty sheets. 



Minerals, Etc. 



Mrs. E. J. Bartol. Piece of flexible Sandstone. 



Harry T. Carson. Mineral specimen. 



S. G. DixoN, M.D. Magnetic Iron Ore, Cranberry, North Carolina. 



Fritz Gleim. Specimens of Pyrite, Elba, Italy. 



M. E. Griffith. Several specimens of minerals. 



John T. Reeder. Specimens of native sheet Copper, Calumet, Michigan. 



Joseph C. Roop, Water from phosphorescent lake in Bahamas. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Collections of minerals and rocks. 



George Vaux, Jr. Ores from silver mines of British Columbia. 



Wm. S. Vaux Collection. A number of specimens purchased. 



Visitor. Chrysocolla, Arizona. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



865 



INDEX TO SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND REFERRED TO 

 IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1904. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced; synonyms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abastor 467 



Acacesia foliata 130 



Acanthoderus mexicanus 51 



oileus 89 



Acarina 143 



Accipiter atricapillus striatulus.... 580 



cooperi 580 



velox 580 



Acera 333, 376 



Aceratherium 478 



Achatinidse 637 



Acheta abbreviata 738 



Achurum 516 



sumichrasti 516 



Acipenser sturio 506 



Acipenseridaj 506 



AcrididjB 516, 563, 781 



Acridinse 516 



Acridium americanum 533 



bivittatum 533 



(Tetrix) cephalicum 662 



coloratum 633 



colunibinimi 533 



flavo-fasciatum 533 



(Tetrix) gracile 668 



(Tetrix) bispinosum var. Ja- 



ponica 662 



maculosum 539 



melanocerum 533 



pallens 533 



pantherinum 538 



peregrinum 533 



spretis 537 



toltecum 639 



A-agum 533 



Acrolophitus hirtipes 563 



Acrophylla 84 



Acrophyllinae 84 



Acrosoma spinea 128 



rugosa 128 



Acrostichium 613 



Acrydiina3 658 



Acrydium 666 



arenosum 777, 781 



bipunctatum 666 



bispinosum 662 



flavo-lineatum 539 



japonicum 666 



scabrum 667 



subulatum 666 



turki 666 



Acta?on 329, 376, 378 



Actineda agilis 144 



Actitis macularia 580 



Adapidae 149 



Adapis 155 



Adelopomax 619 



Admetus fuscimanus 142 



iEgista subchinensis 625 



J]:oiis 329,376 



iElosoma 689 



Agalena 276 



nsevia 124 



Agalenidse 124 



Agave decipiens 611 



Agelaius phoeniceus caurinus 582 



Aidemona 536 



azteca 536 



Aix sponsa 580 



Alligator 467 



Allionia viscida 108 



AUocosa funerea 135 



Allotettix 666,668 



cayennensis 668 



peruvianus „ 668 



prolongatus 668 



Alnus tenuifolia 108 



Alopias vulpes 505 



Alopiidse 505 



Alopus cocophages 85, 85 



Alosa sapidissima 507 



Alycseus Isevicervix 618 



purus 617,618 



satsumanus 618 




866 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Alyca?us tanegashimjB 617 



tokunoshimanus 617 



Amalthea conica 24, 25 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia 795 



uhleri 795 



Amblyomma tuberculata 144 



Amblytropidia 517 



elongata 518 



ferruginosa 517 



ingenita 517, 518 



mysteca 518 



occidentalis 518, 776, 784 



Ameiurus nebulosus 242 



Amianthium muscfetoxicum 608, 611 



Ammophila arundinacea 604 



Ammospermophilus leucurus 588 



Ammotrecha cubie 143 



Amorphopus..... 664 



antennatus 664 



notabilis 664 



Amphiardis 467,471 



Amphitrite, 336, 368, 369, 697, 699, 



703, 706, 707, 709, 712-716, 720, 



721, 726 



spiralis 496 



Amphorina 376 



Anaptomorphus 150, 153 



Anaxipha exigua 801 



Anchiale 88 



confusa 88 



maculata 88 



nffivia 88 



stoUi 88 



Ancistrodon 467, 473 



contortrix 473 



piscivorus 473 



Ancylus 379 



Andromeda mariana 605 



Andropogon macrourus 605 



Angigaster 619 



Anguilla chrisypa 506 



Anguillidse 506 



Anisolabis annulipes 776, 778 



Anisoinorph a buprestoides 78 1 



Anisomorphinse 91 



Anniella 468 



Anogra coronopifolia 108 



Anolis 467 



Anophelepis xiphias 71, 71 



Antiacodon 150 



Antrozous 195 



pallidus pacificus 587 



Anyphsena fallens 123 



floridana 124 



fragilis 124 



gracilis 121, 123 



velox 123 



Aphelocoma calif ornica 582 



Aplopus 63 



achalus 68 



angulata 68 



Aplopus cytherea 63 



ligia 65 



micropterus 63, 68 



similis 65 



Aplysia, 333, 336, 342, 343, 345, 354, 



356, 376, 377, 378, 384, 385, 387, 



694 



Apodontis 765 



Apollon 22 



Apomatus 158 



cyanellus 248 



Apopus jamaicensis 68 



Apsilus 689 



Aptenopedes aptera 793 



clara 793 



sphenarioides 776, 793 



Aquila 22 



chrysaetos 581 



Aquillidse 21,22 



Aquillus 21,22 



cutaceus 22 



exaratus 23 



labiosus 23 



Ara^apteryx penelope 567 



Araneus cinereus 305 



Area kobeltiana 559, 560 



nose 259 



ocellata 555,560 



Archidoris 378 



Arctocebus 152 



Arctomys flaviventer 589 



Arctopitheca 149, 152 



Arctosa cinerea 305 



lynx 305 



Arctostaphylos uva-ursi 607 



Ardea herodias 580 



Arenaria groenlandica 603 



squarrosa 605 



Arenicola.336, 343, 344, 368, 369, 695, 



697, 706, 707, 712-717, 720, 721, 



726 



Aretha?a 542 



carita 542 



gracilipes 542 



phalangium 795 



Argentinia anserina 108 



Argiope argentata 131 



aurantia 131 



transversa 131 



trifasciata 131 



Argyrodes floridana 126 



globosum 126 



nephilsp 126 



trigonum 126 



Argyrcepeira 131 



Ariadne bicolor 122 



Aricia 344, 360, 361, 362, 706, 720 



Arion 379 



Aris£ema triphyllum 481, 483 



Arizona " 468,472 



Arnilia 787 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



867 



Aromochelys 467 



odoratus 468 



Arphia 522 



arcta 564 



canora 564 



granuJata 786 



nietana 522, 56 Ji. 



pseudonietana 564 



sanguinaria 522 



simplex 522 



sulphurea 522, 776, 786 



teporata 564 



tniculenta 622 



xanthoptera 776,785 



Arrhidaeus 85 



capito 85 



cephalotes 85 



longiceps 85 



nigricornis 85 



palamnus 85,86 



palinurus 85 



roseus 85 



stall 85 



styxius 85 



vittatus 85 



Aruanoidea 78 



aruana 78 



osmylus 78 



punctata 80 



Salmanazar 78 



Asagena americana , 127 



Ascaris 743,744 



ferox 478 



Asclepias obtusifolia 605 



Asc5'rum crux-andrese 605 



stans 605 



Asio magellanicus 581 



Aspella 592 



Asplanchna 695 



Aster concolor 605 



linariit'olius 607 



nemoralis 605 



spectabilis 605 



Asterias 741 



Astragalinus psaltria 583 



Astragalus simulans 109 



Astroma 682 



chloropterum 682 



Ateles 152, 153, 154 



Ateloplus notatus 574 



Atemnus elongatus 141 



floridanus IJ^l 



Atherinida^ 248,508 



Atlanticus gibbosus 797 



Attida^ 137 



Attus familiaris 1S9 



tripunctatus 1S7 



Aulocara 522 



cairuleipes 522 



elliotti 522 



Aulonia 263, 265, 266, 267, 309 



Aulonia aurantiaca 266 



humicola 265 



Auxis bisus 760 



Avicula 259 



Axiothea campanulata 157 



Axolotl 689 



Aysha orlandensis 121 



Bacillus coloradus 516 



mozambicus 83 



natalis 8S 



palmeri 516 



souchongia 80 



Bacteria 61 



(Bacunculus) calcarata 50 



cubensis 62 



peruana 56, 56 



tridens 51 



turgida 57 



yersiniana 53 



Bacterida3 107 



Bacterince 61, 107 



Bactrododema 70 



sestuans 70 



miliaris 70 



tiarata IfO 



welwitschi 70 



Bacunculidse 107 



Bacunculinae 61 



Bacunculus 53 



Balistes vetula 510 



Balistidffi 510 



Bathyphantes anglicanum 128 



floridana 128 



micaria 128 



sp 128 



Batrachidege 669 



Bdellidfc 144 



Bdella cardinalis 144 



Belba 146 



Bellinda cancellata 126 



Belocephalus subapterus 795 



Belonida; 508 



Berberis fendleri 108 



Bergia 376 



Bifidaria jamaicensis 411, 415 



rupicola....407, 409, 410, 411, 413, 



414 



servilis 409, 410, 411, 413, 414 



Biplex 22 



Bispira 501 



polymorpha 499 



Bittium oosimense 26 



scalatum 26 



Blattida; 513, 562, 776, 779 



Boopedon 519 



gracile 520 



hoagi 519 



nubilum 519,563 



Boophilus annulatus 144 



Bootettix argentatus 563 



Boreotrophon 593 




868 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Bostra 57, 60, 514 



dorsuaria 57, 514 



jaliscensis 514 



martini 59,60 



podagrica 60 



remiformis 58 



turgida 57, 58, 515 



Bostria incompta 57, 514 



Brachypeplus magnus 528 



virescens 528 



Brachystola 528 



magna 528 



Brachyura 182 



Brazieria 636 



Brevoortia tyrannus 507 



Bryanthus taxifolius 603 



Buccinidae 19, 592, 594, 595 



Buffo 22 



Bufo 739 



Bufonaria 22 



Bulla 377 



Butatas littoralis 611 



Buteo borealis calurus 580 



Bythinia 379 



Caducifer 594 



Cakile americana 604 



maritima 611 



Calamacris 529 



clendoni 529 



Callethrix 151 



Callilepis imbecilla 123 



Callisaurus 468 



Callospermophilus chrysodeirus 588 



Caloptenus atlanis 537 



differentialis 538 



(Hesperotettix) picticornis 538 



Calvisia 71 



atrosignata 73 



graminea 72 



maculiceps 71 



maculicollis 72 



nigrofasciata 72 



thisbe 71 



viridilineata 71 



Calynda 57 



bicuspis 57 



Calypte anna 582 



Calyptrsea 24,378 



Calyptrseidse 24 



Camnula pellucida 566 



Camponotus pennsylvanicus..641, 642, 



644 



Campostoma anomalum 244 



Canis ochropus 579, 588 



Cantharus puncticulatus 593 



waterhousise 593 



Capitella, 360, 697, 700, 701, 706, 708, 



709, 720 



Capnobotes fuliginosus 573 



Capulus 24,378 



Carangidie 508 



Caranx crysos 508 



Carausius 42 



bracatus 42 



macer 42 



mammatus 44, 46 



obiensis 46 



strumosiis 42 



Carcharias littoralis 505, 506 



Carchariidse 506 



Carcharinus obscurus 505 



Cardium annse 556, 557 



hungerfordi 555, 556, 557 



h. stigmaticum 556 



h. undatopictum 556 



papyraceum 555, 557 



stigmaticum 556 



tcheliense 557, 558 



Carepalexis tuberculata 131 



Carphophis 467 



Carpiodes damalis 243 



grayi 242,243 



Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis 583 



purpureus calif ornicus 582 



Carychium 407,413 



bermudense, 408, 409, 410, 411,412, 



415 



exiguum 415 



jamaicense 415 



sp 408 



Cassandra calyculata 607 



Cassiope hypnoides 603 



Castilleia integra 109 



intermedia 109 



Catarrhinae 149 



Cathartes aura 580 



Catostomidaj 242 



Catostomus nigricans 243 



Caulonia 48 



Cebus 150, 151, 152, 153 



Cemophora 467 



Centrarchidfe 248 



Centrolophida? 509 



Centropristes striatus 510 



Centrums carolinianus 141, 142 



gracilis 141, 142 



hentzi 142 



margaritatus 142 



Ceophloeus pileatus abieticola 581 



Cephalocoema 680 



chapadensis 681 



costulata 681 



flavirostris 682 



lineata 682 



multispinosa 681 



sica 680 



Ceratinella emertoni 127 



Ceratinopsis similis 127 



Ceratinoptera lutea 767, 780 



Cereus triglochidiatus 108 



CerithiidiB 25 



Cerithium subscalatum 25 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



869 



Cerithium trailli 25 



t. kikaiensis 25 



Ceroys 48 



bigibbus 48,49 



multispinosus 48 



perfoliatus 48, 61 



rabdota 48 



Certhia familiaris occidentalis 584 



Ceryle alcyon 581 



Ceuthophilus 545 



agassizii 545 



arizonensis 574 



brevipes 545 



calif ornicus 545 



discolor 545 



divergens 545 



gracilipes 545 



lapidicola 545 



latens 545 



macropus 545 



maculatus 545 



niger 545 



occultus 545 



scabripes 545 



stygius 545 



uhleri 545 



virgatipes 798 



Chsetopterus 706 



ChamjEa fasciata 585 



Characinidffi 119,248 



Charina 468 



Cheironieles 251 



Chelanops atfinis 141 



dentatus 141 



floridse 140 



latimaiius 141 



latus 140 



oblongus 140 



tumidus 141 



Chelifer biseriatum 140 



floridanus 140 



muricatus 140 



Chelonia 474 



Chelydra 467 



Chernetida; 120 



Chilomeniscus 468 



Chilonycteris 180, 181-207, 250, 251 



boothi 182, 183, 197, 207 



davyi 255 



d. fulvus 255 



fuliginosa 182, 188, 191 



grisea 182, /5S-191 



gymnonotus, 182, 193, 251, 252, 



254 



macleayii, 182-185, 188, 188-lU, 



199, 206, 207 



m. fuliginosa 184, 188, 189, 191 



m. grisea 184, 188, 191 



m. inflata 184, 187-190, 191 



mexicana 183,^03 



osburni 182,254 



Chilonycteris parnellii, 184, 194, 197, 



198, 200 



p. boothi 185, 197, 199, 200, 203 



p. portoricensis 185, 197, 199 



persona ta 182, 183, 184, 193 



portoricensis 183, 199, 200 



psilotis 183, 185, 205 



quadridens 185, 191 



rubiginosa, 182, 183, 185, 193, 200, 

 203, 204, 207, 253 



rubiginosus 20S 



r. mexicana 185, 200, 203, 253 



Chione hizenensis 553 



micra 552, 553 



Chiracanthium albeus 123 



inclusa 123 



Chiriquia 664 



serrata 664 



Chiromys 149, 155, 156 



Cliiroptera 149 



Chiton 221,336 



pohi 257-259 



Chitoniscus 107 



Chloealtis abdominalis 563 



viridis 518 



Chloritis obscurus 628 



tosanus 629 



t. osumiensis 629 



Chlorostoma rugatum 33 



r. sublsevis... 33 



turbinatum..... 33 



Cholcepus hofmanni 477 



Chondestes gramniacus strigatus.... 583 



Chorietypus hippiscus 672 



Choroetypi 670 



Chortophaga viridifasciata 777, 786 



Cliromacris 532 



colorata 532 



miles 532 



speciosa 532 



Chromodoris 377 



Chrosomus erythrogaster 244 



Chrysanthemum leucantheraum.... 108 



Chrysemys 467,468 



concinna 468 



mobilensis 468 



rubriventris 468 



scabra 468 



Chrysopsis falcata 605 



mariana 605 



Chrysso albomaculata 128 



Chthonius pennsylvanicus 141 



spinosus 141 



Cichhdse 249 



Cinclus mexicanus 584 



CinguUna cingulata 30 



circinata 30, 31 



japonica 30, 31 



subulata 30 



terebra 30 



Cinosternum 467 




870 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cinosternum pennsylvanicum 468 



Circotettix suffusus 569 



undulatus 569 



Cirratulus luxuriosus 493 



spirabranchus 492, 493 



Citellus fisheri 588 



gammurus beecheyi 586, 588 



g. douglasii 577 



Cladomorphus 61 



pliyllinus 61 



Cladonotce 658 



Cladonotus horrendus 660 



Clanculus gemmulifer pallidus 34 



hizenensis 34 



h. yar. fraterculus 33 



Clathurella centrosa 11 



chichijimana 11 



dichroma 11 



lischkeana 12 



maculosa 11 



tincta 11 



Clausilia agna 825 



asperata 825,826 



aulicophora 812 



(Tj-rannophsedusa) aiiranti- 



aca 812 



a. sakui 815 



awajiensis 813 



azumai 616, 816, 817 



a. idiopylis 817 



bernardii 815, 816 



callistochila 817,818 



caloptyx 825 



caryostoma 812 



c.jayi 812 



cladoptyx 837 



crenilabium 816 



cymatodes 810 



dsemonorum 832, 834 



d.viva 832,833 



ducalis rex 809 



excellens 816 



fultoni 822 



hachijoensis 832 



hedleyi 835 



hickonis 821,822 



h. saucia 822 



hiraseana 810, 811 



hirasei 828, 829, 830 



h. var. kikaiensis 828 



hosavaka 814 



hyperaptyx 825,827 



hyperoptyx 827-831 



h. yorongiwana 828, 830 



ikiensis 812 



kikaiensis 828, 830, 833 



koshikijimana 814 



mikawa 813 



mima 819 



mimus 825, 826, 828 



nagashimana 810 



Clausilia nakadai 818 



n. degenerata 818, 819 



okinoerabuensis 816 



ophidoon 820 



oshimaj 818 



pattalus 832 



p. miyakaensis 832 



pigra 812 



pinto 825,827 



platydera var. minoensis 813 



ptychochila 815,816 



ptychocyma 825 



p. vakushimse 825 



purissima 825,826 



sarissa 828,829 



strictaluna 828 



subhickonis 821 



sublunellata 814 



thaumatopoma 834 



tokunoshimana 819 



tiyoni 837 



t. var. mlA-akejimana 837 



una ' 817 



vasta 822 



ventriluna 811,812 



vaeyamensis 828, 831 



Clausiliida? 616,809 



Clematis ligusticifolia 108 



Clemmys 468 



Clepsine 714 



Cliola chalybaja 239 



Clitumnina^ 80 



Clonaria 82 



Clonistria bartholomsea 60 



linearis 60 



Clonophis 467 



Clubiona tibialis 123 



Clubionida> 123 



Clupea harengus 507 



haumela 771 



Clupeida? 507 



Clymene harai 157 



Clymenella, 336, 343, 368, 369, 697, 

 699, 706, 712, 716, 721 



Clypeotettix 666,667 



schochii 667 



Cnemidophorus 468,473 



Coccothrinax 613 



Codakia bella 555 



b. delicatula 555 



(Jagonia) bella 555 



Colaptes cafer collaris 581 



Coleosoma blanda 138 



fioridana 128 



Collonia rosa 31 



Colobotis beldingi 588 



Coluber 466, 467, 472 



guttatus 472 



lineaticollis 472 



obsoletus C'onfinis 472 



o. obsoletus 473 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



871 



Coluber quadrivittatus 472 



subocularis 472 



Colubraria 22, 592, 595 



maculosa 22 



Colubrariidce 592 



Columbella albinodulosa 14 



a. A'ar. ogasawarana 14 



deshayesii 14 



digglesi 16 



divaricata 16 



dunkeri 15 



hahajimana 15 



liocyma 14 



palumbina 14 



sandwichensis 14 



sinensis 16 



somnium 15 



troglodytes 16 



turturina 13 



t. borealis 13 



varians 14 



Columbellidae 13 



Conidse 6 



Conocephalus 543,777 



acuminatus 543 



albifrons 543 



armatus 543 



atlanticus 795 



bilineatus 543 



cinereus 543 



cornutus 543 



discolor 543 



elongatus 543 



ensiger 273 



falx 543 



fuscostriatus 796 



griseus 543 



hemipterus 543 



inflatus 543 



lanceolatus 543 



mexicanus 796 



nasutus 543 



obscurellus 543 



retusus 795 



rugosus 543 



spinigerus 543 



subulatus 543 



triceps 543 



tricornis 543 



trifidus 543 



triops 543 



varius 543 



virens 543 



viridissimus 543 



Conozoa acuminata 567 



Contia 468 



Contopus richardsonii 582 



Conus aculeiformis 6 



acutangulus 6 



comatosa 550 



dormitor 6, 550 



Conus gratacapii 7 



kikaiensis 6, 7 



sieboldi 550 



Coralliophila jeffreysi 16 



■j. var. hiradoensis 16 



Corema conradii 606 



Coreopsis rosea 605 



Coriarachne floridana 132 



versicolor 132 



Coronella 472 



Corvus brachyrhynchos hesperis.... 582 



Corynorhinus 195 



Corynorhynchus 677 



hispidulus 677 



hispidus 677 



latirostris 677 



radula 677 



spinosus 677 



Cottidse 511 



Crataegus parvifolia 605 



Cremastogaster lineolata, 639, 640, 642, 



643 



Crepidula, 24, 332, 333, 336-350, 354, 



356, 358, 363, 366, 367, 369-373, 



379, 385-389, 392, 697, 701, 712, 



722, 724, 726 



adunca 346 



crepidula 24 



plana 24 



unguiformis... 24 



walshi 24 



Oricjjettix 662 



baeri 662 



bispinosus 662 



b. japonicus 662 



borrei 662 



brevis 662 



claAatarsis 662 



emarginatus 662 



insidiosus 662 



miliaris 662 



nexuosus 662 



nigellus 662 



nodulosus 662 



perminatus 662 



pulcher 662 



puUus 662 



rugosus 662 



saginatus 662 



Bubulatus 662 



tricarinatus 662 



vidali 662 



Crocodilus 467 



Crotalus 468,473 



Crotaphytus 468 



Crypta 24 



Ctenida; 136 



Ctenosaura 467 



Oulex 739 



Cumia 22 



bracteatus 23 




872 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cumia decapitatus 23 



lanceolata 22 



Cupiennius sallei 121, 136 



Cupressus thyoides 605 



Cyanocitta stelleri carbonacea 582 



Cyanospiza amoena 583 



Cyathopoma 619 



innocens 619 



iota 619 



micron 619 



Cybium acervum 766 



cavalla 766 



Cyclas 336, 360, 379, 694, 714 



Cyclophis 467,472 



Cyclophoridte 616 



Cyclopteridje 511 



Cyclopterus lumpus 511 



Cycloptilum squamosum 799 



Cyclosa bifurca 131 



thorelli 130 



Cyclotus 619 



micron 619 



minutus 619 



nudus 618 



Cyllene gibba 20 



japonica 19 



Cynorta ornata 140 



Cynoscion regalis 510 



Cyperus cylindricus 605 



Cyphocrania tamyris 70 



Cyprinidffi 244 



Cythara 10 



Cytlierea crispata arnica 551 



puerpera 552 



reticulata 552 



Dactylotum 539 



bicolor 539 



histricum 539 



pictum 572 



variegatum 539 



Damgeus 146 



Daphnella maculosa 8 



radula 8 



Dasychone japonica 164, 165 



Dasyleurotettix 658 



curriei 658 



Dasypus sexcinctus 477 



Dasyurus 154 



Datames 89 



ffiqualis 89 



mouliotii 89 



Datura tatula 109 



Decidia 91 



soranus 91 



Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus. 580 



Dendrocichla I^J^S 



Dendrocincla 426,447-463 



acedesta 449, 461 



anabatina 447, 449, 452 



a. anabatina 452, 453 



a. typla 452, 453 



Dendrocincla aphanta 450, 461 



atrirostris, 447, 449, 451-454, 457- 



459 



brunnea 449, ^50, 451 



castanoptera 447, 4^6 



enalincia 449, 451, 455 



fuliginosa 449, 453, 454, 456, 457 



homochroa 449, 461 



h. acedesta 461, 462 



h. homochroa 462 



lafresnayei...449, 451, 457, 458, 459 



longicauda 447, 449, 451 



macrorhyncha 447, 449, 450 



merula 450,456-459 



merulina 459, 460 



meruloides...447, 450, 457, 460, 461 



m. aphanta 460 



m. meruloides 459-462 



minor 4'^^} 452 



olivacea 449, 451, 45^-459 



o. anguina 448, 4^7, 458 



o. lat'resnayei 447, 451, 457, 458, 

 459, 461 



o. olivacea 456, 457, 459 



o. pha'ochroa 458, 461 



phaeochroa 450, 458 



ridgwayi 448, 449, 458, 459 



ruficeps 449, 461, 462, 463 



rufo-olivacea 447, 453, 454 



turdina 454, 455 



typhla 449 



tyrannina 447, 449, 451 



t. brunnea 450 



t. tyrannina 450, 451 



Dendrocolaptes 448, 454 



atrirostris 451 



fumigatus 4-53 



merula 456 



turdinus 448, 449, 454 



Dendrocops meruloides 459 



tj^ranninus 450 



Dendrocopus fuliginosus 453 



Dendrohyrax 478 



Dendroica nigrescens 584 



Dendromanes 447, 448 



homochrous 462 



Dendronotus 329 



Deudryphantes floridanus 138 



octavus 137, 138 



Dermacentor americanus 144 



Dermonotus, 182-184, 207, 241, 250, 



251 



davyi 251, 252, 253, 256 



d. fulvus 251, 253-256 



fulvus \9Z,255 



Derotmema haydeni 567 



laticinctum 567 



Desmodium lajvigatum 605 



viridiflorum 605 



Diadophis 467 



Diancta 624 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



873 



Ditipensia lapponica 603 



Diapheromera 50, 514 



calcarata 50, 514 



femorata 51 



sayi 50 



Diceratoptyx 809, 823, 824, 835, 836 



Dichromorpha 518 



viridis 518,777,785 



Dididunis 251 



Dictyna floridana 121, 125 



foliacea 124 



sublata 125 



Dictynida? 124 



Dictyophorus guttatus 776, 787 



reticulatus 787 



Diraorphodes 84 



mancus 84 



prostasis 84 



Dinophilus 260, 360, 688-737 



apatris 689 



gyrociliatus 689 



Dinopsis spinosus 125 



Diopatra californica 484 



Diotarus 658 



Diplocardia communis 803 



longa 803 



michaelseni 803 



Diplocentrus lesueurii 142 



Diplomniatina 624 



cassa 620,622 



everetti 624 



gibbera 620,621 



goniobasis 621 



g. onoensis 621 



inimersidens 623 



kumejimana 623, 624 



kyushuensis 620, 621, 622 



lateralis 623,624 



oshimif 623 



sculptilis 619 



tokunoshimana 622 



tosana 620 



tosanella 620 



ventricosa 622 



vespa 616, 619, 620, 624 



Diplommatinida? 619, 624 



Dipodomys californicus 587 



Dipoena crassiventris 127 



Dipsosaurus 468 



DiscoccElis 695 



Discotettix 670 



armatus 670 



bdzebuth 670 



Dissosteira Carolina 566, 777, 786 



Distorsio 22 



Distortrix 22 



Distylia 501 



rugosa 499 



Diura 84 



Dixippus 41 



crawangensis 41 



56 



Dixippus insularis 44 



nodosus 41, 42 



sumatranus 41 



uniformis 41, 42 



Dolomedes 313,314 



albineus 136 



fontanus 314, 316, 319 



idoneus 314,319 



mira 820 



scapularis 314 



scriptus 316,317 



sexpunctatus 136, 314 



tenebrosus S17, 318, 319, 319 



urinator 314, 317, 319 



virgatus 320 



Doris 329, 376, 377, 387 



Doto 329,376 



Drassidae 122 



Dreissensia, 336, 343, 360, 381, 694, 

 697, 699, 714 



polymorpha 379 



Drillia albiguttata 8 



strep tonotus 7 



zebra 8 



Drosera filiformis 605 



Drymadusa arizonensis 573 



limbata 573 



Drymobius 467 



Dryobates gairdneri 581 



harrisii 581 



pubescens turati 581 



villosus hyloscopus 581 



Dryocopus 44^ 



Dynie 5Q, 56 



bifrons 56 



Dyscolorhinus 529 



Dysderidffi 122 



Dysopes 182,251 



Echeneididce 511 



Echeneis naucrates 511 



Edentata 478 



Eilica bicolor 123 



Elaps 467 



Eleocharis melanocarpa 605 



Ellipes minuta 799 



Elopidte 507 



Elops saurus 507 



Elj^sia 377,387 



Empidonax difficilis 582 



Emys 467,468 



Encheliopus 770 



Enchelyopus 770 



Encoptolophus 524 



costalis 524 



parvus 524 



subgracilis 366 



Endodontidse 636 



Ennea iwakawa miyakojimana 631 



i. oshimana 631 



Epeira l)alaustina 129 



domiciliorum 129 




874 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Epeira fasciata ISl 



floridensis 129 



fuscovittata 130 



gigas 129 



globosa 129 



juniperina 130 



labyrinthea 129 



pratensis 129 



scutulata 130 



septima 129 



spinigera 121, 130 



strix 129 



thaddeus 129 



trivittata 129 



undecimtuberculata 121, 130 



wittfeldte 129 



Epeiridse 128 



Ephippity tha gracilipes .542, 5^2 



Epidromus 22, 592, 595 



Epigaea repens 607, 608 



Episema 245 



scabriceps 245 



Eptesicus fuscus 579 



f. bernardinus 590 



f. melanopterus 590 



f. Osceola 590 



Ercolania 333, 376 



Erenifeus 146 



floridanus 145 



Ergsea 24 



walshi 24 



Erianthi 672 



Erianthus 672 



acutipennis 672 



flavoinflatus 672 



guttatus 672 



malcolmi 673 



nipponensis 672 



obtusus 672 



Eriophyes oleiovorus 146 



Eriophj'idse 146 



Erodium cicutarium 108 



Erucii 673 



Erucius 673 



dimidiatipes 675 



magnificus 674 



pictus 674 



vitreus 673, ^7^ 



Erythrseidee 144 



Erythrffius sp 144 



Erythrolamprus 467 



Etheostoma whipplii 248 



Eublepharis 468 



Euchelis hachijoensis 35 



lischkei 34 



Euchelus atratus 35 



cancellatus 35 



(Hybochelus) cancellatus ori- 



entalis 35 



gemmatus 35 



Euchone alicaudata 165 



Euconulus turbinatus, 408-411, 412, 



420 



Eucta caudata 132 



Eucynopotamus 119 



Eugnatha pallida 132 



Eulecanium 112 



Eulima 29 



dentiens 28, 2S 



Eulimidaj 29 



Eulota callizona minor 626 



c. montivaga 626 



commoda 628 



despecta 627 



(Acusta) d. ikieusis 627 



d. kikaiensis 627 



(Acusta) d.prcetenuis 627 



d. sieboldiana 627 



f riedeliana goniosoma 625 



(^gista) f. var. humerosa 625 



mercatoria 626 



nioyaka 627 



oculus 625, 626 



(Euhadra) okinoerabuensis 626 



(/Egista) omma 625, 626 



submandarina 626, 634 



Eumastaces 675 



Eumastacinse 670 



Eumastax 675 



dentatus 675 



Eumeces 468,473 



Eunice biannulata 487 



Eupatorium album 605 



hyssopifolium 605 



leucolepis 605 



rotundit'olium 605 



Euphsedusa 837 



Euphagus cyanocephalus 582 



Euphorbia ipecacuanhas 605 



polygonifolia 604 



Eupodidse 144 



Eupomatus 361 



Euryopis argentea 127 



Euryta 5 



brazieri 5 



pulchella 5 



trilineata 5 



Eustala prompta 130 



EutEenia 467, 470, 471 



butleri 471 



elegans 470 



e. elegans 471 



e. vagrans 471 



eques 470,471 



hammondi 470,471 



infernalis 470 



marciana 470, 471 



megalops 471 



ordinatus 471 



proxima 471 



radix 470,471 



saokeni 471 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



875 



Eutaenia saurita 471 



sirtalis 470 



s. leptocephala 471 



s. ordinatus 470 



s. parietalis 470, 471 



s. pickeringi 471 



s. sirtalis 470, 471 



Eutamias amcenus 588 



hindsi 577 



minimus pictus 588 



senex 588 



Euthria lineata 594 



Evermannella ' 119 



biserialis 119 



Palcicula hebardi 777, 802 



Falco sparverius phalcena 581 



Fallugia acuminata 109 



a. micrantha 109 



micrantlia 109 



paradoxa acuminata 109 



Farancia 467 



Farer 236 



sammara 236 



Felis oregonensis 580 



Ficimia 468 



Filistata hibernalis 122 



Filistatidfe 122 



Fiona 325-405 



marina 325-405 



Fissurella 378 



Flammeo 236 



achromopterus 236 



marianus 236 



sammara 238 



Fluorite 475 



Forficulidce 562, 776, 777 



Formica fusca var. subsericea...642, 644 



sanguinea 642, 644 



Frontina coccinea 128 



Fuentes lineata 139 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepi- 



dotus 507 



majalis 507 



Fusidse 18 



Fusus 378,387 



suboblitus 18 



Gadida? 511 



Gadus callarias 511 



Galago 153 



Galeopithecus 149 



Galeorhinida> 505 



Galumna 146 



affinis 146 



emarginata 145 



Galpinsia I'endleri 108 



Gamasidffi 145 



Gamasomorpha floridana 121, 122 



Gamasus sp 145 



Gambusia affinis 248 



Ganesella adelinae 629 



i'erruginea 631 



Ganesella japonica 631 



largillierti 630 



myomphala 630 



m. minor 630 



m. okinoshimana 630 



selasia 630,631 



s. textilis 630,631 



s. zonata 630, 631 



sororcula 629 



tokunoshimana 629 



wiegmanniana 630, 631 



Garypus floridensis 141 



Gasteracantha cancriformis 128 



Gastropteron 378 



Gaucelmis augustinus 127 



Gaultheria procumbens 607, 608 



Gayenna parvula 124 



Gaylussacia dumosa 605 



frondosa 607 



resinosa 607, 608 



Gea heptagon 128 



GempyliniB 767 



Gempylus 757,767 



coluber 768 



ophidianus 767 



serpens 767 



Geolycosa 263, 265, 292 



arenicola 293, 295, 299 



baltimoriana 293, 297 



carolinensis 293,299 



latifrons 292, 293, 295 



texana 293,298 



Geophilus cayugse 655 



lanius 655 



regnans 654 



Geothlypis tolmiei 584: 



Gerardia pedicularia 606 



purpurea 604 



Germo alatunga 763 



germon 761,763 



Gerrhonotus 468 



Geum radiatum 603 



Gibbula incarnata 34 



vittata 34 



Glaucidium gnoma californicum 581 



Glaucoma 468 



Glyceria obtusa 605 



Gnaphalium purpureum 605 



Gnapliosa sericata 123 



Gomphocerus clepsydra 563 



Gonatista grisea 781 



Goniodoris 329 



Gordius 753 



Gorilla 149 



Graeffea 85 



cocophages 85 



fulvescens 85 



lifuensis 85 



Grammonota maculata 127 



Gratidia 82 



inclinata 83 




876 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Ciratklia natalis 83 



prostrostrata ".... 83 



sansibara 82 



Giindelia inornata 108 



(JryllidtP 546, 575, 799 



(iryllotalpa borealis 799 



Gryllus 546,777 



sequalis 525 



assimilis 546 



barretti 547 



domesticus 546 



fasciatus 527 



formosus 525 



guttatus 787 



luctuosus 801 



niexicanus 547 



necydaloides 95 



(Mantis) necydaloides 88 



niveus 5Ji.7 



nubilus 519 



obliquus 539 



obscurus 534 



pennsylvanicus 575, 801 



personatus 575 



phthisicus 95 



(Mantis) phthisicus 97 



rubens 801 



rufipes 539 



(Mantis) siccifohus 105 



trifasciatus 527 



violaceus 539 



Gymnoglossa 29 



Gymnorhina 182 



Gymnosarda "^^0 



Gyninoscirtetespusillus....776, 789, 798 



Gymnura 182 



Gyrina 22 



Gvrineum ^-2 



Habrocestum pulex 139 



Hadrotettix 527 



trifasciatus 527,570 



Hahniasp 124 



Haldea 467,471 



HaMa:'tus leucocephahis 581 



Hamalatiwa grisea 137 



Haminea 378 



Hapale 150,151,152,154 



Hapithus brevipennis 777, 802 



Haplopus cvtherea 63 



eucnemis 61 



Hedotettix 668 



lestivus 068 



graciUs 668 



lleUanthvis angustii'olia 605 



annuus 168 



petiolarus 168 



Hdiastus 528 



aridus ■• 570 



aztecus 528 



obesus 528 



sumichrasti 528 



Hehastus venezuekc 528 



Helicidie 625 



Hehcina convexa 411, 421 



verecunda 625 



V. degener G25 



Hehcinidaj 625 



Hehcops 467 



Helix 379 



circunifinnatus 4^0 



discrepans 420 



ochroleuca 419 



reinianus 419 



Helminthophila c'elata lutescens... 584 



rubricapilla gutturalis 584 



HeloderiTia 468 



Hemiphffdusa, 809, 811, 812, 816, 826 



Hemizaptyx 813, 823, 824-826, 834 



Hermffa 378 



Heros cyanoguttatus 249 



Hesperophasma 47 



Hesperotettix 537 



festivus 537, 570 



meridionalis 537 



viridis 537,570 



Heterodon 467, 472, 473 



nasicus 473 



platyrhinos 473 



simus 473 



Heteronemia 53, 56 



festuca 54 



ignava 54 



mexicana 53, 54 



striata 54 



yersiniana 53 



Heteronemina:> 47, 61, '107 



Heteropoda vcnatoria 121, 134 



Heteropterj'gina' 89 



Heteropteryx 89 



australis 89 



castelnaudii 89 



dehaanii 89 



dilatata 89 



grayii 89 



niiilleri 89 



rollandi... 89 



rosenbergi 89 



westwoodii 89 



Hibiscus moscheutos 604, 609 



Hippiscus 524 



cupidus 566 



ocelote 524 



phoenicopterus..... 777, 786 



rugosus 777, 786 



zapotecus 525, 566 



Hippoglossus hippoglossus 512 



Hipponyx acutus 25 



australis 24 



cornucopia>a 25 



orientalis 25 



suturalis 25 



Hirasea insignis 63(> 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



877 



Hirundo erythrogaster 583 



Histiagonia rostrata. 127 



Holbrookia 468 



Holocenthridse 222 



Holocenthrus 225 



albo-ruber 235 



adscensionis 225 



binotatus 233 



brachjTlnnichus 233 



diploxiphus 227, 229 



ensifer '235 



gladispinis 225, 226, 228 



gracilispinis 227 



leo "■;.■" 235 



polynesise 229 



rut'us 225 



siccifer 233,234 



thorntonensis 231 232 



xantherythrus '225 



Holocentrum leo 235 SS5 



sicciferum ggs'^ 234 



Holocentrus albo-ruber ' ^35 



diploxiphus 225,228 



ensifer 235 



microstomus 231 



pa>cilopterus 229, 231 



ruber 235 



sammara 236 



spinifer 235 



xantherythrus 225 



Holotrach3^s 224 



lima 224 



Homalattus cyaneus 139 



Homo 149^ 150 



Horesidotes cinereus 563 



Hormilia 542 



elegans 572 



prasina 542 



Hudsonia ericoides 605 



montana 611 



tomentosa 604 



Humulus lupulus neomexicanus.... 108 



Hyalina nelsoni ^75 



Hybusa 679 



occidentalis 679,680 



reedi 679 



Hyctiapikei 139 



Hydroides 369 



Hydroplilox 245 



Hylocichla guttata nana 585 



ustulata 585 



Hyopsodinse 149 



H5^psicomus lyra 161 



phiBatgenia 163 



Hypsiglena 468 



Hyracotherium 478 



Hyrax 476-480 



leius elegans 138 j 



floridana 138 ' 



pleuralis 138 I 



wickhami 138 ' 



Ictalurus punctatus 242 



Icteria virens longicauda 584 



Icterus bullocki 582 



Ictiobus tumidus 243 



Ignacia 95 



Insectivora 149 



Ipomoea pandurata 605 



pes-carpse 611 



Iridoprocne bicolor 584 



Isagores 105 



Ischnochiton, 333, 336, 343, 347 350 



363, 368-370, 699, 702, 705, 712, 



713,720 



cooperi 257 



magdalenensis 257 



mertensii 257 



regularis 257 



Ischnopoda 69 



pliillipsi 69 



reyi 69 



Ischnoptera 767, 780 



insequalis ' 779 



johnsoni 779 



major .' 780 



uhleriana 780 



Isometrus maculatus 142 



Istiophoridse 769 



Istiopliorus nigricans 769 



Isurus dekayi 506 



Ivaimbricata 611 



Ixodes scapularis 144 



Ixodidse 144 



Jantheria 377 



Janus Z'.'.'.'.'.'... 378 



Japonia barbata 617 



tokunoshimana 61(» 



Jerdonia 619 



Julus moreleti 653 



Junco oregonus thurberi 583 



Juncus greenii 606 



militaris 606 



pelocarpus 605 



scirpoides var. macrostemon... 605 



Kaira alba 121 130 



Kaliella bimaris '633 



gudei 634 



g. persubtilis 634 



higashiyamana 633 



humiliconus 633 



kikaigashimaj 633 



modesta 634 



okinoshimana 633 



pagoduloides 634 



pallida 634 



sororcula 633 



Kalmia angustifolia 605, 608 



glauca '608 



Katharina tunicata 257 



Kellia japonica 558 



porculus 558 



Kochia 145 




878 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Labia burgessii 776, 778 



guttata 776 



melancholica 562 



minor 776, 778 



Labidesthes sicculus 248 



Labidura bidens 777 



Labridse 510 



Lactista 525 



gibbosus 525, 526 



pellepidus 525 



pulchripennis 525 



punctatus 525, 526 



Lielaps sp 145 



Lamnidse 506 



Lampas 22 



Lampusia 22 



pilearis 22 



Lampusidae 21 



Laonome 167 



' tridentata 164 



Larinia directa 131 



Larix americana 608 



Lasionycteris noctivagans 579 



Lasiurus borealis teliotus 591 



-i cinereus 587 



Lasius umbratus 642, 644 



latipes 639, 640, 642, 644 



Lathrodectus mactans 127 



Lathyrus decaphyllus 108 



.: maritimus 604 



Lechea racemulosa 606 



Ledum latifolium 608 



Leiognathus 759 



Leiophyllum buxifoliuiii 611 



Lemnisoma 767 



serpens 76V, 769 



thyrsitoides 767 



Lemnisomid£e 767 



LemnisominEe 767 



Lemur 150 



Lemuravidse 149 



Lepidonotus 333, 706, 712 



Lepidopidse 770 



Lepidopus caudatus 770 



ensiformis 770 



Lepomis megalotis 248 



Leprus 525 



elephas 566 



Lepturacanthus 770 



Leptysma 533, 788 



marginicoUis 533, 788 



Lepus arizonse 589 



bachmani 578, 587 



californicus 578, 587, 589 



floridanus audubonii 587 



Lespedeza hirta 606, 607 



Leueauge 131 



argyra 121, 131 



hortorum 131 



Liacarus concolor 146 



Libellula americanus 53^ 



Lichanura 468 



Ligurotettix kunzei 563 



Lilium philadelphicum 608 



Limax 333, 336, 343, 347, 379, 381 



Limnaea 336, 379, 387 



Limnotherium 150 



Linotfenia epileptica 657 



rubelliana 656, 657 



Linum australe 108 



puberulum 108 



Linyphia communis 128 



Liobunum bicolor 140 



formosum 140 



vittatum 140 



Liolepisma 467 



laterale 469 



Liopeltis 467,472 



Litaneutria minor 562 



Lithobius centurio 651 



cockerelli 651 



euthus 652 



fungiferopes 652 



navigans 653 



provocator 653 



Lithyphantes fulvus 127 



7-maculatus 127 



Lobostoma 181, 182 



quadridens 185 



Lobostomidfe 183 



Lobostominae 183 



LocustiniE 530 



Lonchodes porus 40 



Lonchodidse 107 



LonchodiniB 38 



Lonchorhina 429 



Lopaphus coccophagus 85 



Lophiidae 512 



Lophius piscatorius 512 



Lophopsetta maculata 512 



Lophortyx californicus 580 



Loris 149, 152 



(Stenops) 149 



Lotoriidae 21 



Lotorium 21,22 



femoralis 22 



lotor 22 



Loxosceles rufescens 122 



Luchuphaedusa, 616, 809, 816-817, 820 



Lucina divergens 555 



-fibula 555 



Lumbriconereis erecta 490 



Lupinus perennis 606 



Lutra canadensis 579 



Lutreola vison energumenos 579 



Luxilus 245 



Lycopodium inundatum 606, 608 



i. var. bigelovii 605 



selago 603 



Lycosa 263, 265, 267, 276, 277, 292, 



293, 300, 308 

 angusta 121 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



879 



Lycosa antelucana 276, 278, 282 



arenicola 299 



avara S04 



babingtoni 134,290 



baltimoriana 297 



bilineata 276, 277, 278, 290 



carolinensis 134, 299 



charonoides 276, 278, 286 



cinerea 305 



communis 287 



contestata 303 



domifex 299 



erratica 134 



euepigynata 277, 279, 282 



fatifera 293 



(Pardosa) flavipes 276 



floridana 134 



frondicola 306 



funerea 286 



glacialis 274 



groenlandica 274 



halodroma 305 



helluo 134 



hentzi 135 



inhonesta 276, 277, 283, 290 



insopita 278, 280, 282 



kochii 305 



(Pirata) Isennbergi 121 



lenta 121,134 



lepida 277,287 



Ivnx 305 



mccooki 276, 277, 283 



mackenziana 278 



maritima 305 



minima 273 



modesta 278 



nidicola 290,291 



nidifex 299 



nigra 277,285 



nigraurata 305 



nigroventris 262 



ocreata 263, 276, 277, 278, 288 



o. pulchra 263, 290 



pictilis 277, 285, 287 



polita ; 307 



posticata 134 



pratensis 303 



pulchra 277 



punctulata 134, 277, 288 



purcelli 282,505 



rabida 135 



relucens 276, 277, 278, 292 



riparia 134 



rufa 278,288 



rugosa 277, 286 



scutulata, 135, 263, 276, 277, 289, 



300 



sepulchralis 307 



stonei 2QS, 288 



sublata 308 



tarentula carolinensis 299 



Lycosa tigrina 290, 291 



(Pirata) transversolineata 121 



A^erisimilis 292 



\Tilpina 290,292 



xerampelina 278 



Lycosida; 134, 241, 261, 264 



Lynx fasciatus oculeus 588 



sp 580 



Lj'^ssomanes ^^ridis 140 



Lystrophis 472 



Macacus 151, 155 



Macella 80 



caulodes 80 



dentata 80 



Machajrocera 517 



mexicana 517 



pacifica 517 



sumichrasti 517 



Macrocheles sp 145 



Macroclilamys dulcis 635 



d. koshikijimana C35 



gudei 636 



g. inclytus 636 



semisericatus 635 



subelimatus 635 



Macroclemmys 467 



Macrophyllum 428 



Macropus 154 



Macrotis 427,428 



Macrotus 260,427-446 



bocourtianus 428, 437, 439 



buUeri 428, 439, 444 



californicus, 428, 429, 437, 439, 



441,444 



mexicanus, 428, 429, 437, 439, 440, 



441, 444 



m. bulleri 429, 439 



minor 428, 435, 437 



pygmseus 429, 444 



waterhousi, 428-430, 432, 432- 

 437, 441 



w. compressus 429, 432, 433. 434 



w. jamaicensis....429, 432, 434-439 



w. minor 429, 433, 435 



Mactra antiquata 550 



carneopicta 550 



stultorum 550 



Maculotriton 592,593 



bracteatus 593, 595 



b. lativaricosus 593 



b. longus 593, 595 



digitalis 593,595 



Macus cynomolgus 155 



Majvia vittata 139 



Magnolia glauca 605 



Mahadeva verrucosa 128 



Makaira nigricans 769 



Malaclemmys 467 



Maldane coronata 157 



disparidentata 494 



gotoi 157 




880 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Malvastrum cockerelli 109 



Mangilia cinnamomea 10 



c. peraffinis 10 



cylindrica 9 



decussata 10, 11 



delacouriana 10, 11 



(Cythara) hirasei 10 



kawakurana 9 



planilabruni 10 



pura 9 



semicarinata 9 



Mangora gibberosa 130 



placida 130 



Mantida? 513, 562, 777, 781 



Mantis arumatia 61 



ferula 61 



linearis 60 



maculata 88 



siccifolia 105 



Maransis 83 



rufolineatus 83 



Marmessoidea 73 



cercyon 73 



eurybates 73 



marmessus 73 



phluctainoides 73, 74 



rubescens 73 



sumatranus 74 



Marpissa undata 139 



Mastax agrionoides 673 



gundlachii 676 



guttata 672 



magna 675 



tenuis 675 



vitrea 673 



Mastigoproctus giganteus 143 



Masyntes 676 



"borellii 676 



tigris 676 



Maypacius 313 



floridanus 136 



Mazarredia 663 



abbreviata 663 



aptera 663 



atypa 663 



ceiebica 663 



centrosa 663 



fuscipes 663 



gallinacca 663 



gemella 663 



insularis 663 



lauta 663 



minuta 663 



remissa 663 



rufipes 663 



sculp ta 663 



semperi 663 



truncata 663 



Mazatlania 5, 6 



Mecistocephalus anonialus 655 



guildingii 653 



Mecistocephalus limatus 656 



Megaderma 428 



Megadermata 428 



MegadermatidEe 428 



Megalophwdusa 809 



Megisthanus 121 



floridanus 145 



Melanerpes formicivorus bairdi 581 



Melanogrammus seglefinus 511 



Melanoplus 537 



altitudinum 571 



aridus :.. 571 



atlanis 537, 571, 777, 792 



bivittatus 572 



canonicus 572 



clypeatus 792 



corpulentus 537 



differentials 538,572 



elongatus 571 



excelsus 571 



i'emur-rubrum 571 



flavidus 571 



herbaceus 571 



islandicus 791 



keeleri 776,792 



marculentus 537 



minor 572 



nigrescens 770, 791 



palmeri 537 



propinquus 777, 792 



reflexus 537 



sapellanus 571 



scudderi 776, 790, 791 



spretis 537 



sylvestris 776, 791 



Melospiza cinerea samuelis 583 



cleonensis 583 



Menidia notata 508 



Menticirrhus saxatilis 510 



Mephitis occidentalis 579 



MerlucciidjE 511 



Merluccius bilinearis 511 



Mermiria 784 



bivittata 563 



Merula migratoria propinqua 585 



Mesosoma niger 140 



Mestobregma 527 



kiowa 567 



mexicanum 527 



Metacyrba taniola 139 



Metadiancta 624 



Metazaptyx 823, 824, 831, 834 



Metriotes 105 



acuticornis 105 



agathocles 105 



blanchardi 105 



brevipennis 105 



bubastes.... 105 



dictys 105 



diodes 105 



ni vrsilus 1 05 




iyu4.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



881 



Metriotcs obscura 105 



rugicollis 105 



santara 105 



servillei 105 



stollii 105 



venosa 105 



Metrodorae 662 



Micariaagilis 122 



punctata 122 



Microcystina circumdata 635 



hUgendorfi 635 



lampra 634, 635 



nuda 635 



obtusangula 634 



tanegashimse 634, 635 



vaga 634, 635 



yakuensis 635 



Micromata pinicola 136 



Micrommata carolinensis S30 



serrata 320 



uudata 3£0 



Microtus californicus 578, 587 



inordax 589 



Mimetus interfector 127 



Minytrema melanops 243 



Miogryllus lineatus 575 



Misumena bellula 133 



oblonga 133 



rosea 132 



spinosa 132 



viridans 133 



Mitra helvacea 13 



hirasei 12 



pretiosa 13 



rufilirata 13 



Mitraria 664 



phyllocera 664 



pontificalis .• 664 



producta 664 



Mitridff 12 



Mola mola 511 



Molida; 511 



Molossus 251 



Moniezia 478 



Monilea ( Rossi teria) nucleolus 34 



Monoplex 22 



cynocephalus 22 



Mormoopinae 183, 251 



Mormoops 182, 183, 184, 250, 251 



Mormopes 182 



Mormopida 182 



Mormopidas 183 



Mormops 182,183 



Mormopsina 182 



Moxostoma congestiun 243 



Murtena ocellata 507 



Murex femoralis 22 



labiosus 23 



lotorium 22 



Muricidff 16,592 



Mustela caurina 579 



Mustelus canis 505 



Mycetes 151, 152, 154 



Myiarchus cinerascens 582 



Myliobatidfe 506 



Myodora fluctuosa 559 



proxima 559 



reeveana 558 



triangularis 559 



Myopteris 251 



Myotis californicus caurinus 579 



evotis 579, 587 



lucifugus longicrus 579 



yumanensis 590 



Myoxoceplialus octodecemspino- 



sus 511 



Myrica cerifera 604 



MjTipristis argjTomus 224 



berndti 222 



chrj^seres 224 



jacobus 222 



lima 224 



murdjan 222, 222, 224, 224 



MATinecophaga didactyla 477 



Myronides 38 



ashmeadi 38 



filum 38 



porus. 



40 



Mysmena bulbifera 127 



quadrimaculata 127 



Mytilidffi 259 



Myzusrosarum 113 



Nassa 378,387 



f estiva 21 



hiradoensis 21 



incrassata 21 



mendica 21 



semiplicata 21 



s. hiradoensis 20 



s. hizenensis 21 



teretiuscula 21 



Nassaria 17, 595 



Nassidse 20 



Natica draparnaudii 24 



Naticidte 23 



Necroscia aruana 78 



cercyon 73 



chlorotica 76 



cyllarus 99 



hemus 71 



marmessus 73 



medora 71 



pansetius 76 



samsoo 76 



sangarius 71 



sarpedon 76 



scabra 76 



sipylus 76, 76 



smaragdula 72 



styxius 85 



virbius 71 



viridilineata 71 




882 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Necroscia zeuxis 71 



Necroscidse 107 



Necroscinse 71 



Nemobius ambitiosvis 777, 800 



carolinus 777, 801 



cubensis 800 



exiguus 777,800 



fasciatus 800 



maculatus 799 



neomexicanus 575 



socius 800 



Neohirasea 84 



Neoliodes concentricus 146 



floridensis 146 



Neotettix 666 



bolteri 782 



femoratus 777, 782 



Neotoma cinerea 589 



desertorum 589 



fuscipes 578, 586 



f. affinis 586 



monochroura 586 



Nephila plumipes 131 



Nereis, 340, 343, 361, 368, 369, 697, 



699, 706, 707, 709, 712, 713, 715, 



716,719,720,724,726 



Neritina 333, 340, 3-18, 367, 387, 701 



Nesiophsedusa 815 



Noctilionina 182 



Notaspis 146 



Notharctus 150 



tenebrosus 155 



Notropis 247 



atherinoides 245 



blennius 244 



chalybieus 221, 239, 240 



c. abbotti 239 



luciodus 247 



lutrensis 245 



notemigonoides 247 



pilsbryi 245 



proserpina 245 



shumardi 245 



socius 247 



Nuttallina thomasi 257 



Nuttallornis borealis 582 



Nycteris 427 



Nycticebidse 152 



Nycticebus 152 



Nyctinomus 251 



cynocephalus 587, 588 



c. californicus 587 



mexicanus 587, 588 



Nyctipithecus 153 



Nyctophilus 428 



Obisium parvulum 141 



Ocenebra 593 



erenacea 593 



Ochotona schisticeps 589 



Ocinebra japonica 17 



monoptera 17 



Ocinebra nassoides 17 



Ocyale undata S20 



Odocoileus columbianus 579 



Odontostomidse 119 



Odontoxiphidium apterum 797 



OEcanthus 547,777 



bipunctatus 547 



fasciatus 575 



italicus 547 



niveus 547 



pellucens 547 



quadripunctatus 801 



varicornis 547 



CEcobiida? 122 



CEdipoda azteca 536 



costalis 534 



(Leprus) elephas 525 



mexicana 526 



(Hippiscus) ocelote 524 



plattei 527 



punctata 5S6 



sordida 524 



sumichrasti 528 



CEdipodinse 522 



Oligonyx 514 



bicornis 514 



filiformis 514 



filum 514 



mexicanus 514 



minuta 514 



Oligozaptyx 809, 823, 824, 835-837 



Olpium obscurum 141 



Omniatolampis mexicana 533, 533 



Oncotophasma 59, 60 



martini 60 



Oniscus 738 



Onosmodium thurberi 109 



Oonopida; 122 



Oophiedusa 820 



Opeas brevispira 637 



gracile 638 



kyotoensis 637 



obesispira 638 



prestoui 638 



Ophibolus 467,472 



doliatus 472 



d. triangulus 473 



getulus 472 



g. boylii 472 



g. californise 472 



g. getulus 472, 473 



g. sayi 472, 474 



g. splendidus 474 



Ophidia 474 



Ophisaurus 467,469 



Opisthacanthus elatus 121, 142 



Oppia 146 



Opsomala filiformis 533 



marginicoUis 533, 533 



Orcella 245 



Orchelium cuticulare 796 




1904. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



883 



Orchelimum glaberrimum 796 



nigripes 796 



nitidiim 796 



Orchesticus 5^3 



americanus 543 



Orchetypus 670 



ceylonicus 670, 671 



ocreatus 670 



rotimdatus 670 



subtruncatus 670 



Oreophoetes 56 



peruana 56 



Oreortyx pictus plumifenis 580 



Oreospiza chlorura 583 



Oribata 146 



floridana 146 



Oribatidse 145 



Oribatula 146 



Orocharis gryllodes 777, 802 



Orontium aquaticum 606 



Orphulella 518 



elegans 518 



gracilis 518 



intricata 518 



pratorum 776, 777, 785 



punctata 518 



tepaneca 518 



Orthacris 529 



Orxines 71 



xiphias 71 



Oscanius 378 



Osmilia 539 



toltecum 539 



Ostrea circumpicta 559 



ina?quivalvis 559 



vitrefacta 559 



Otopterus >^^7, 428 



bulleri 439 



calif ornicus 441 



mexicanus 4^'^, 4^9 



Ottonia granulosa 143 



trombidiodes 143 



Otus asio bendirei 581 



Oxybaplius angustifolius var. vis- 



cidus 108 



Ox)^coryphus montezuma 516 



Oxyopes laminatus 121 



salticus 137 



scalaris 121, 131 



Oxyopidse 137 



Oxyptila floridensis 132 



Ox3rria digyna 603 



Pachygnatha sp 132 



Palinurichtliys perciformis 509 



Palophus 70 



reyi 69 



Paludina 360,379 



Panicum amara 611 



verrucosum 605 



Pantelia 660 



armata 660 



Pantelia cristulata 660 



uncinata 660 



Papeo 151 



Parabacillus 516 



palmeri 516 



Paraclonaria 82, 83 



affinis 83 



hamuligera 83 



longelaminata 83 



postrostrata 83 



Paradiancta 620 



Paragordius 738-754 



varius 738 



Paralichthys dentatus 512 



oblongus 512 



Paramastax Ia>ta 675 



magna 675, 676 



personata 675 



Paranotropis 245 



Parapachymorpha 84 



(Neohirasea) japonica 84 



nigra 84 



spinosa 84 



Paratettix 666 



aztecus 666 



caudatus 667 



cayennensis 666, 668 



fallax 666 



frey-gessnerii 667 



histricus 667 



meridionalis 666, 667 



mexicanus 667 



peruvianus 666, 668 



scaber 667 



schochii 666, 667 



schocki 667 



texanus 777,782 



Parazaptyx 823, 824, 834 



Pardosa.... 262-264, 267, 277, 293, 300 



albomaculata 263,^74 



albopatella 273 



bilineata 263,290 



bilobata 121 



brunnea 263,^74 



flavipes 268 



floridana 136 



glacialis 267,274 



groenlandica 267, 274 



lapidicina 268, 271, 272 



longispinata 121 



mercurialis 267, 268, 270 



milvina 121, 135 



minima, 136, 267, 270, 273, 274, 



276 



montana 263,275 



nigropalpis 268, 273, 274, 275 



pallida 267, 270, 271 



pauxilla 268 



saxatilis 135 



scita 267,272 



tachypoda 268, 275 




884 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Pardosa venustulata 135 



Parcecanthus 549, 649 



mexicamis 549, 549 



Paropomala virgata 570 



Paroxya atlantica 793 



floridana 777,793 



Parthenocissus quinquefolia 108 



Parus gambeli 585 



neglectus 585 



rufescens 585 



Parviterebra 5 



paucivolvis 5 



Passer domesticus 583 



Passerella iliaca megarhyncha 583 



Patella 259,387 



australis 24 



cassida 24 



Pectiniunguis americanus 653, 654 



europaeus 654 



montereiis 653, 654 



plusiodontus 654 



Pelamys 760 



affine 761 



alleterata 760 



sarda 76S 



Pellenes brunneus 139 



cristatum 139 



peregrinum 139 



viridipes 139 



Perameles 154 



Perca adscensionis 225 



flavescens 509 



Percid* 248,509 



Periplaneta americana 513, 562, 780 



truncata 780 



Perixerus 541 



Isevus 541 



squaniipennis 541 



variabilis 541 



Peromyscus boylii 577, 586 



calif ornicus 586 



dyselius 586 



gambeli 577, 586 



major 586 



texanus artemisise 589 



t. deserticola 589 



truei 577 



Petrochelidon lunifrons 584 



Petromyzon marinus 505 



Petromyzontidse 505 



Peucetia viridans 137 



Pezotettix variegatmn 539 



Phffidrotettix 534 



angustipennis 534 



Phalsenoptilus nuttalli californicus 581 



Phalangida 140 



Phaneroptera ciirvicauda 543 



mexicana 543 



tolteca 542 



Phantasis 47 



Phascolosoma 729 



Phasianella tristis 32 



Phasianellida' 32 



Phasma 62,95 



angulata 63 



arumatia 62 



bemiettii 91 



calamus 62 



dilatatum 89, S^ 



elongata 40 



ferula 62 



filiformis 62 



flabelliformis 105 



(Acanthoderus) japonicum, 84, 84 



(Lopaphus) macklottii 71 



(Necroscia) maculicoUis 72 



menius 97 



naevium 88, 88 



necydaloides 88,55 



(Necroscia) nigrofasciatum 73 



niponense 40 



nympha 105 



perspicillare 93 



planulum 47 



soranus 91, 91 



sumatranum 41 



(Lonchodes) uniforme 42 



Phasmida?.... 38. 91, 514, 781 



Phataria (Tinckia) imifascialis var. 



bifascialis 596-600 



Phenacobius scopifer 247 



Phenacomys longicaudus 578 



preblei 578 



Phibalosoma cantori 70, 70 



hypliarpax 70 



lepeletierii 61 



tiarchus 70 



Phidippus audax 137 



bilineatus 121 



cardinalis 121, 137 



clarconensis 121 



insolens 121, 137 



miniatus 137 



oaklandensis 121 



otiosus 137 



pulcherimmus 121, 137 



rufus 137 



variegatus 137 



Philadelphus micropliyllus 108 



Philaeus militaris 137 



rimator 137 



Philine 333, 377, 378 



Philodromus floridensis 133 



ornatus 133 



vulgaris 133 



Phleum alpinum 603 



Phlox subulata 605 



Pholcida; 122 



Pholcus phalangioides 122 



Phos 595 



par\'us var. intricatus 594 



senticosus 595 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



885 



Photogenis luciodus 245 



Phraortes 40 



elongatus 40 



mikado 40 



Phry-nida [ 142 



Phrynosoina 468 



Phthoa g3 



Phybalosoma cubensis 62 



PhyllidjB 107 



Phyllinfe ..Z'Z 105 



Phyllirhoe 376 



Phyllium ...'j05, 107 



bioculatum 106 



pulchrifoliuin 106 



scythe 106 



Phyllodia i5/, 182 



parnellii isi, 182, 194 



Phyllodiana : 182 



Phyllop t era azteca 54s 



marginella 543 



Phyllorhoe 329 



Phyllorhynchus 468 



Phvlloscirtus cicindeloides 548 



vittatus 548 



Phyllostomatidae 428 



Phyllostomatinse 429 



PhA-llostomides 428 



Phyllostomina 428 



Phyllotreta pusilla 109 



Physa..... 336, 359, 360, 379, 701 



fortinalis 343 



Physalis pubescens 108 



Picea nigra 60S 



Pimephales notatus 24-4 



Pinus heterophylla 612 



"gifla ;. 607,608 



strobus 607 



Pipilio fuscus crissalis 583 



maculatus megalonyx 583 



oregonus 583 



Pipistrellus hesperus 579 



Piranga ludoviciana 583 



Pirata, 262, 263, 264, 266, 276, 277, 



308, 309 



elegans 277, 308, 309, 310 



luimicolus £6S 



insularis 262 



li'^er 308^ 309, 311 



marxi 308, 309, 310 



luiiiutus 263 



nigromaculatus 308, 309, 310 



piraticus g09 



procursus ^75 



prodigiosus 399 



sedentarius 309,312 



P'sania '595 



stngata 595 



Pisauridffi 136, 241, 261, 264, 313 



Pisaiirina 313 320 



mira ' 320 



undata 136 



Pitar citrina 554 



sulfurea 553 



Pithecanthropus 149 



erectus 156 



Pithecea 153 



Pityophis 468,472 



melanoleucus 472,473 



Plagiotriptus 672 



hippiscus 672 



Planaria lugubris 208, 211 



polychroa ' 216 



simpUssima 180,208-220 



Planorbis, 333, 336, 337, 346-350, 354, 



356, 359. 364, 367, 369, 370, 371, 



373, 379, 387, 388, 712, 720 



Planudes 99 



crenuHpes 100 



paxillus 100 



perillus 99^ loo 



Platycrana punctata 80 



Platyphyma aztecum 536 



Platyrrhinaj 149 



Plectana stellata 128 



venusta 129 



Plectopyhs hirasei 616 



Plectrophorus 521 



Plectrotettix 521 



gregarius 521 



viatorius 52 1 



Pleurobranchidium 377 



Pleurobranchus 377 378 



Pleuronectidise ' 512 



Pleurosigma angulatum 475 



Pleurotoma nassoides 12 



Pleurotomidse 19 



Plexippus paykulli 138 



Pneumatophorus 757 



Podarke. 333, 336, 344, 360-362,' 369 



703, 706, 707, 712, 713, 716, 720, 



724 



Podophyllum 481 483 



Poeciliidse 248* 507 



Poecilotettix ' 533 



pantherinus 533 



sanguineus 572 



Poecilozonites 406 410 411 



bermudensis 411,' 416,' 418 



b. zonatus 407-410,' 417,' 418 



circumfirmatus, 407-410, 4 12,' 4 19, 



' 420 



c. var. discrepans 420 



cupula 409, 410, 411, 417, 418 



dalh 410,417 



discrepans 408, 409, 410, 420 



nelsoni 407-412, 415-417 419 



n. callosus....408, 409, 410, 410,' 418 



n. discoideus 410 



reinianus 407-4167412, 419 



r. var. goodei 419 



zonatus 412 



Polachius virens ' 511 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Polinices cumingianus 24 



effusa 24 



powisianus 24 



p. var. draparnaudii 23, 24 



sagamiensis 23, 24 



Polioptila coerulea obscura 585 



Polycera 329, 376, 378 



Polychseta 481,484-503 



Polygala lutea 605 



polygama 606 



Polygyra microdonta 410, 411, 413 



Polymina 706 



Pomatoceros 361 



auritubis 157, 174 



Pomatomidse 509 



Pomatomus saltatrix 509 



Pomatostegus latiscapus 173 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus 507 



Populus angustifolia 108 



Potamilla acuminata 159 



torelli 161 



Prenanthes bootii 603 



Prexaspes 105 



Priene 22 



Prionace glauca 505 



Prionotus carolinus 511 



Prisopus 105 



berosus 105 



draco 105 



sacratus 105 



Procavia brucei 476 



Proctolabus 533 



mexicanus 533 



Procyon psora 579 



Proscopia flavirostris 682 



occidentalis 679 



radula 677 



sica 680 



ProscopinEe 677 



Prostheclina aurata 139 



Prosthesima depressa 123 



ecclesiastica 123 



floridana 123 



Prototettix 666 



fossulatus 666 



impressus 666 



lobulatus .- 666 



Protula geniculata 168 



Prunus pumila 606 



Psaltriparus minimus 585 



Pseudarcopagia 554 



Pseudomermyle 51, 514 



banksii 514 



tridens 514 



Pseudomops 513 



discoidalis 513 



oblongata 513 



Pseudophasma 95 



cryptochlore 98 



cyllarus 99 



gambrisius 98 



Pseudophasma menius 97 



perezi 95 



phaeton 95 



pholcus 98 



phthisicum 97 



prasinum 98 



urazi 95 



Pseudophasminse 91 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus 512 



Pseudopus 469 



Pseudoscorpionida 140 



Pseudosermyle 51 



Pseudothericles 676 



Psinidia fenestralis 777, 787 



mexicana 627 



Pterinoxyhis 61 



difformipes 61 



eucnemis..... 61 



Pteronotus 182, 241, 250, 251 



davyi 251, 251, 252, 255 



Pteropoda thecosomata 694 



Pteropus 251 



Pulchriphyllium 105 



Punctum atomus 636 



japonicum 637 



morseanum 637 



pretiosum 637 



rota 637 



Pupa insulivaga 631, 632 



minutissima 631 



Pupinella oshimse 618 



o. tokunoshimana 618 



Pupoides marginatus, 410, 411, 413, 



415 



Purpura tosana 17 



Putorius xanthogenys 579 



Pyrgomorphinse 528 



Quercus havardi 108 



ilicifolia 606-608 



leptophylla 108 



nigra 605 



novomexicana 108 



phellos 605 



prinoides 605 



Radinotatum brevipenne 776, 783 



Rajaerinacea 506 



Isevis 506 



Rajidse 506 



Ranularia 22 



Regulus satrapa ohvaceus 585 



Reithrodontomys longicauda....577, 587 



Reptilia 464 



Rhadinea 467 



Rhineura 467,469 



Rhinoberyx chryseus 222 



Rhinoceros incisivus 478 



Rhinochilus 468 



Rhinopoma 428 



Rhinoptera bonasus 506 



Rhodites spinosellus 112 



Rhododendron maximum 608 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



887 



Rhododendron rhodora 608 



viscosum 607, 608 



Rhomalea auricornis 532 



Rhombus triacanthus 509 



Rhyncholophidae 143 



Rhyncholophus floridanus 143 



longipes 143 



maculatus 143 



punctatus 143 



simplex 143 



Rhynichthys 233 



Ricinula morus 18 



Riparia riparia 584 



Rissoa crassilabrum 28, 28 



ogasawarana 26 



semiglabrata 28 



semiphcata 28 



tokyoensis 26 



tridentata 28, 28, 29 



Rissoidfie 26 



Rissoina 27 



bidentata ^5,29 



coronata ^5,28 



costulata 28 



curta 28 



euhmoides ^5,29 



(Rissolina) Isevi costulata 27 



materinsulse 27 



plicatula 25 



rex 27 



(Zebina) tridentata 28 



Roccus lineatus 509 



Rodentia 149 



Romphea fictilium 126 



Rosa acicularis 115, 116 



aciculata 114, 115 



arkansana 110-117 



blanda 112,116,118 



b. var. aciculata 114 



calif ornica 116 



c. ultramontana 116 



fendleri 113, 114, 115, 116, 117 



engelmanni 115, 116 



grosseserrata 113 



gj'mnocarpa 114 



macounii 115, 116 



macdougali 117 



manca 115 



maximiliani 116 



melina 117 



neomexicana Ill, 114, 116, 118 



nutkana 117 



pecosensis 110-116 



pisocarpa 113, 114, 115, 116 



prfetincta 110, 111, 112 



pratincola 115 



sayi 114,115,117 



suffulta 115,117 



ultramontana 116 



woodsii Ill, 113, 114, 115, 116 



Rubus cuneifolius 605 



Runcinia aleatoria 132 



Sabal 613 



Sabbatia angularis 604 



Sabella japonica 157 



(Potamilla?) assimilis 161 



Sabellidffi 157 



Salix herbacea 603 



irrorata 108 



phyllicifolia 603 



uva-ursi 603 



Salmo salar 507 



Salmonidse 507 



Salsola tragus 108 



Salticus albocinctus 139 



Salvadora 468 



Sarda sarda 508, 763 



Sardinaj 760 



Sargocentron 235 



Sauromalus 468 



Saussurella 670 



cornuta 670 



sumatrensis 670 



Sayornis nigricans 582 



Scapanus californicus 587 



Scelimena 660 



abbotti 660 



producta 660 



Scelimense 660 



Sceloporus 468,473 



Schistocerca 533 



americana 534, 776, 788 



damnifica 776, 789 



lineata 534 



obscura 534 



pyramidata 534 



shoshone 570 



vaga 533, 570 



Scisena murdjan 222 



Scisenidse 510 



Scintilla aurantiaca 558 



Sciuropterus alpinus californicus.... 589 



a. lascivus 589 



Sciurus douglasii albolimbatus,577, 589 



griseus 577 



Scomber 757 



alatunga 763 



alleteratus 760 



aletteratus 760 



bisus 760 



chrysozonus 759 



germon 761 



germo 761, 763 



kanagurta 757, 759 



loo 759 



microlepidotus 759 



moluccensis 759 



pelamis 760 



reani 759 



regalis 766 



sarda 763 



scombrus 508, 757 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Scomberoniorus 764 



argyreus 764,765 



cavalla 765,766 



Ruttatus 766 



maciilatus 508 



regalis 766 



tritor 765 



Scombridai 508, 757 



Scombrinse 757 



Scorpionida 141 



8cotolemon spinigera 140 



Scudderia 543 



cuneata 795 



furcata 795 



mexicana 543 



texensis 795 



ungulata 543 



Scytodidffi 122 



Selasphorus alleni 582 



Selene vomer 508 



Selenops aissa 134 



Semele exarata 554 



Seminatrix 467, 471 



Seminella 16 



Senmopithecus 151 



Septa 22 



australis 22 



rubicunda 22 



Septidffi 21 



Serenoa 613 



Sergiolus cyaneoventris 122 



variegata 122 



Seriola zonata 508 



Sermyle 51 



fftolus 51 



mexicana 51 



physconia 51 



Serpens marinus 767 



Serpulidse 157 



Serranidse 509 



Sialia arctica 586 



mexicana occiden talis 585 



Sibon 468 



Sidalcea neomexicana 108 



Sierra 766 



Silene acaulis 603 



Silurida; 242 



Sinaloa 535 



behrensi 535 



brevispinis 535 



Singa floridana 131 



inaculata 130 



modesta 131 



nigripes 131 



pratensis 131 



Sinioa 619,624 



Siphonaria aniara 36 



rucuana 36 



subatra 36 



Siplionariid;e 36 



Siphostoma fuscum 507 



Sipunculus 729 



Sipyloidea 76 



pojciloptera "7 



scabra 76 



sipylus 76, 77 



warasaca 76 



Sistrum (Ricinula) morus var. bo- 



realis 18 



Sistrurus 468,473 



Sitala insignis 632 



latissima 632 



1. conica 632 



rimicola 616 



Sitta carolinensis aculeata 585 



Smaris australis 143 



Smilacina racemosa 483 



Solanum ela-agni folium 108 



jamesii 108 



Solecardia vitrea 558 



V. japonica 558 



Solidago virgo-aurea var. alpina... 603 



puberula ' 605, 006, 607 



Solpugida 143 



Sophia halictorum 108 



Sorex californicus 587 



montereyensis 587 



obscurus 589 



Sosibia 71 



nigrispina 71 



Sosilaus 264,265 



spiniger 265 



Sosippus 263, 264, 276 



floridanus 121, 135, 276 



Sparassidse 134 



Sparidaj 510 



Spectrum I'emoratvmi 50 



Sphseralcea fendleri 108 



Sphserodactylus 467 



Spharagemon 525 



bofli 777,786 



coUare wyomingianum 786 



cristatum 525 



inornatum 567 



wyomingianum 777 



Sphenarium 528 



borrei 528 



purpurascens 528 



Spheroides maculatus 510 



Sphyrapicus ruber 581 



Sphyrna zyg»na 505 



Sphyrnidte 505 



Spilogale phenax 579 



Spilotes 467 



Spintharus fiavidus 126 



Spinus pinus 583 



Spio 343, 361, 706 



Spiranthes simplex 605 



Spirorbis argutus 175, 176, 177 



bellulus 177 



dorsatus 177 



\_ foraminosus 176, 177, 178 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



889 



Spisula aspersa 551 



(Oxyperas) bernardi 550, 551 



Spizella socialis arizonae 583 



Spongophora brunneipennis, 776, 778, 



779 



Sporobolus serotinus 605 



Squalidse 506 



Squalus acanthias 505, 506 



Stagmomantis 513 



Carolina 562, 777, 781 



limbata 513, 563 



Stauronotus elliotti 622 



Stenacris lanceolata 787 



chlorizans 787,788 



concolor 787 



Stenamma fulvum 639, 641, 644 



f. var. piceum 642, 646 



Stenobothrus tepanecus 518 



viatorius 521 



Stenotomus chrysops 510 



Stereoph£edusa 809, 817, 821, 833 



Stereozaptyx 823,824 



Sternapsis 344 



Sternaspis 706,728 



Stigmseus floridanus 144 



Stigmatomma pallipes 642, 644 



Stilosoma 467 



Stilpnochlora 543 



azteca 543 



Stipa avenacea 605 



Stipator 543 



grandis 544 



Storeria 467,471 



Stratocles 91 



cinctipes 91 



costaricensis 93 



forcipatus 91 



multilineatus 91 



Streptaxidse 631 



Strigamia cephalica 655 



Strobilops hubbardi...407, 409, 410, 413 



Stromateidse 509 



Strophostyles peduncularis 604 



Sturnella magna neglecta 582 



Succinea 379 



barbadensis 421 



bermudensis 408-412,421 



Syna?ina bicolor 132 



Synemosina formica 140 



Syngnathidi? 507 



Syrbula 516,784 



admirabilis 784 



eslavfe 517 



leucocerca 516 



pacifica 516 



Systolederus 662 



angusticeps 662 



cephalicus 662 



haani 662 



langiiidus 662 



ophthalmicus 662 



57 



Systolederus uncinatus 662 



Tachycineta thalassina lepida 584 



Ta^niola 595 



Tseniopoda 530 



auricornis 532 



burmeisteri 530 



picticornis 531 



tamaulipensis 531 



Tantilla 467 



Tapinattus melanognathus 138 



Tarentula baltimoriana 297 



inhonesta 290,2^1 



kochii 305 



lepida 287 



Tarsius 149, 153, 154, 155 



spectrum 149 



Tautoga onitis 510 



Tautogolabrus adspersus 510 



Tegenaria derhami 124 



Tellina corbis 554 



fabrefacta 555 



hirasei 554 



Telmatettix 666 



Tephrosia virginiana 605, 606, 607 



Terebella (Schmardanella) califor- 



nica 496 



Terebra 6 



angasi 5 



awajiensis 4 



lischkeana..... 5 



hedleyi 3 



hizenensis 4 



mariesi 3 



nitida 5 



serotina 3 



subtextilis 4 



tantilla 5 



Terebridae 3, 6 



Teredo 379 



Tergipes 329,376 



Terrapene 467,468 



bauri 469 



major 469 



Testudo 467 



Tetanorhynchus 677 



angustirostris 677 



bihastatus 677, 678, 679 



humilis 677,678 



incertus 677 



longirostris 677 



propinquus 677 



punctatus 677 



smithi 678 



Tethys ....333, 336, 345, 354, 356, 378 



fimbriata 342 



Tetragnatha banksii 132 



grallator 132 



laboriosa 132 



Tetragnathidae 132 



Tetraodontidae 510 



Tetrapturus belone 769 




890 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Tetrapturus imperator 769 



Tetragonopterus argentatus 248 



Tetranychiclse 144 



Tetrany chus bimaculatus 1 44 



mj'tilaspidus 144 



sexmaculatus 144 



tumidus 144 



Tetrix belzebuth 670 



harpago 660 



histrica 667 



producta 660 



uncinata 660 



Tettigia? 666 



Tettigidea 669 



lateralis 669, 777, 782 



pulchella 669 



spicata 777, 782 



Tettigonida- 542, 572, 795 



Tettix caudata 667 



japonicus 666 



mexicana 667 



Thalaexilis 13 



ogasawarana 13 



Thalamia floridana 122 



parietalis 122 



Thalassema, 344, 361, 362, 700, 701, 

 703, 707, 712, 720, 724 



Thamnoscirtus 548 



cseruleus 548 



cicindeloides 548 



montanus 548 



vindicator 548 



vittatus 548 



Thanatidius 313 



dubius 136 



Thargalia crocata 124 



descriptus 124 



floridana 124 



longipalpus 124 



Thelyphonida 143 



Thericleis 676 



Thericles 676 



compressiformis 676 



gnu 676 



obtusiformis 676 



zebra 677 



Theridiida; 125 



Theridiosoma argentea 131 



Theridium amputatum 126 



differens 125 



floridensis 125 



globosum 126 



immaculatum 126 



inornatum 126 



lyra 125 



pictipes 126 



punctosparsum 126 



sp 126 



studiosum 125 



tepidariorum 126 



volatile 121,125 



Theridula quadripunctata 126 



sphferula 126 



Thesprotia graminis 777, 781 



Thiodina retarius 138 



Thomisidte 132 



Thomomys aureus perpes 589 



botts 578,587 



monticola 589 



Thryomanes bewicki spilurus 584 



Thunnus thynnus 508 



Thynnus affinis 761 



alatunga 763 



argentivittatus 763 



pacificus 763 



Thyroptera 251 



Thysanophora hyolepta, 408, 409, 411, 



413 



vortex 411, 413, 415 



Tibellus duttoni 133 



Tirachoidea 70 



can tori 70 



Tityus floridanus 142 



Tmarus caudatus 133 



floridensis 133 



griseus 133 



Tmeticus tridentatus 127 



Tomitherium 150 



Tomonotus 526 



aztecus 526 



mexicanus 526 



nietanus 526 



orizabfe 526 



otomitus 526 



zimmermanni 526 



Tonicella lineata 257 



Tornatina decorata 37 



insignis 36 



Tornatinida? 36 



Touterea rusbyi 109 



Trabsea 265, 266, 267 



aurantiaca 266 



Trachinotus carolinus 509 



Trachvdermon raymondi 257 



Trachytettix 658 



Trepidulus rosaceus 567 



Trichiurida; 508,770 



Trichiurus 770 



caudatus 770 



haumela '. 771 



lepturus 508, 770, IIQ, 771 



inalabaricus 771 



savala 770 



Tridactylus terminalis 799 



Triglida? 511 



Trimerotropis 527 



agrestis 568 



citrina 777,787 



cyaneipennis 569 



fascicula 527 



laticincta 567 



maritima 527 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



891 



Trimerotropis ochraceipennis 527 



placida 527 



rubripes 568 



vinculata 527, 568 



Trimorphodon 468 



Trionyx 467 



Tripetalocerse 670 



Trishoplita nitens 628 



Triton 21, 22, 592, 594 



bracteatus 592, 593, 595 



cylindrica 594 



decapitatus 594 



decollatus 595 



digitalis 593 



exaratum 23 



eximius 594 



labiosus 23 



lativaricosus 593 



nassoides 17 



parvus 594 



speciosum 23 



speciosus 592 



truncatum 594 



Tritonia 329,376 



Tritonidea 593,594 



(Caducifer) cylindrica 594 



(Caducifer) decapitata 594 



(Caducifer) eximia 594 



parva 594 



(Caducifer) parva 594 



(Caducifer) parva intricata.... 594 



tosana 19 



truncata 594 



(Caducifer) truncata 594 



undulata 19 



Tritonidse 21 



Tritoniidfe 21 



Tritonium 22 



excavatum 23 



Trochidse 32 



Trochomorpha cultrata 632 



c. esuritor 632 



gouldiana 632 



horiomphala 632 



Trochosa, 262, 263, 265, 276, 277, 293, 



300, 308 



avara 300, 301, 304 



cinerea 135, 300, 301, 305 



contestata 300, 301, 303 



floridana 135 



frondicola 300, 301, 306 



helvipes 301 



noctuabunda 301 



pratensis 301,303 



purcelli 262, 300, 301, 305 



rubicunda 300,307 



sepulchralis 300, 301, 307 



sublata 301, 303, 308 



Trochus, 259, 336, 337, 340, 347, 348, 

 350, 354, 356, 360, 363, 368, 369, 

 370, 387, 389, 699, 712, 713, 720 



Trochus acutangulus 32 



altus 33 



conus 32,33 



hirasei 32,33 



maximus 33 



niloticus 33 



turris 33 



Troglodytes aedon parkmani 584 



Trombididse 143 



Trombidium sericeum 143 



Trophon 592,593 



clathratus 593 



Tropidoclonium 467, 471 



Tropidolophus formosus 525 



Tropidonotus 466, 467, 469-471 



compressicaudus 470 



cyclopeum 470 



leberis 470 



natrix 470 



rhombifer 470 



sipedon 469 



s. fasciatus 469, 470 



s. sipedon 469, 470 



s. transversus 470 



taxispilotus 470 



ustus 470 



Truncatella 406 



Truxalis obscurus 533 



sumichrasti 516, 516 



Tupaia 148-156 



ferruginea 148 



pictum 148 



Turbinidse 31 



Turbonilla bicincta 30 



(Cingulina) cingulata 30 



hiradoensis 29 



h. var. badia 30 



spina 30 



(Cingulina) terebra 30 



(Cingulina) triarata 31 



Turbonillidae 29 



Tydeus gloveri 144 



Tylosurus acus 508 



Tyrannus verticalis 582 



Tyroglyphidse '. 146 



Tyroglyphus sp 146 



Tyrannophsedusa 812, 815 



Ulesanis americana 127 



Uloboridae 125 



Uloborus plumipes 125 



Ulva 690 



Uma 468 



Umbrella, 333, 341-343, 346-348, 354, 



355, 377, 378, 380, 385, 392, 699 



Unio, 336, 342, 347, 358, 388. 694, 695, 



697, 699, 714 



Uniolapaniculata 611 



Urocyon californicus 579 



Uropodasp 145 



Ursus americanus 579 



Uta 468 




892 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Utricularia subulata 605 



Vaccinium vacillans 607, 608 



Vampyri 428 



Vates 514 



townsendi 514 



Venus costellifera 553 



crispata 553 



imbricata 552 



marica 553 



scabra 553 



Verbascum thapsus 108 



Verbena macdougali 108 



Vermilia ctenophora 169, 171, 172 



pluriannulata 171 



Verticaria 468 



Vertiginidse 631 



Vertigo 407 



hirasei 631 



h. glans 631 



h. okinoerabuensis 631 



marki 408, 409, 411, 414 



numellata....408, 409, 411, 413, 414 



ovata 414 



sp 408 



tridentata 414 



Viburnum nudum 606 



Vicia americana 108 



Viola neomexicana 108 



Vireo gilvus swainsonii 584 



huttoni 584 



solitarius cassinii 584 



Virginia 467, 471 



Vixia infumata 130 



Wagneria tam-icornis 121, 128 



Walagrenada 121, 138 



mitratus 138 



Wala pabnarum 138 



Xanthippus zapotecus 525 



Xantusia 468 



Xerophyllum asphodeloides 611 



Xerosoma 101 



canaliculatum 101 



glyptomerion 101 



senticosa 101 



Xiphias gladius 508, 770 



imperator 769 



Xiphidion brevipenne 797 



fasciatum 273,797 



saltans 797 



Xiphiidffi........ 508,770 



Xyris caroliniana 605 



flexuosa 605 



Xysticus cunctator 132 



floridanus 132 



Zamelodia melanocephala 583 



Zamenis 466, 467, 471, 472 



flagellum flagellum 471 



Zamia floridana 613 



Zaptyx, 634, 823, 824, 828, 831, 833, 



834, 835 



Zapus trinotatus alleni 589 



Zebina 29 



Zenaidura macroura 580 



Zonitidse 632 



Zonitoides apertus 636 



bristoli 408, 409, 411, 421 



minusculus 408, 411, 421 



Zygoballus bettina 139 



parvus 139 



sexpunctatus 139 



Zygonectes notatus 248 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



893 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1904. 



Addition.s to Museum, 856. 



Banks, Nathan. The Arachnida of 

 Florida (Plates VII, VIII), 119, 120. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 849. 



Borden, H. Clay. The Moki Indians, 

 180. 



Botanical Section, report of, 851. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of the Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 849. 



Brown, Arthur E. Post-glacial Nearc- 

 tic Centers of Dispersal for Reptiles, 

 426, 464. 



Brown, Stewardson. Between-Tide 

 Plants of the Delaware River, 756. 

 Report of Botanical Section, 851. 



By-Laws, Committee of Council on, 1. 



Casteel, Dana Brackenridge. The 

 Cell-Lineage and Early Larval De- 

 velopment of Fiona marina, a Nudi- 

 branchiate Mollusk (Plates XXI- 

 XXXV), 325. 



Chamberlain, Ralph V. New Chilo- 

 pods, 651, 684. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Observa- 

 tions on Tupaia ferruginea, with 

 reflections on the Origin of Primates 

 (Plates IX, X), 2, 148. Observa- 

 tions on Hyrax, 475, 476. 



Clark, E. W., announcement of death 

 of, 426. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. The Roses of 

 Pecos, New Mexico, 2, 108. 



Committee on Accounts, 853. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws, 1. 



Committee on Finance, 1. 



Committee on Instruction and Lec- 

 tures, 1. 



Committee on Library, 1 . 



Committee on Publications, 1. 



Conklin, E. G., Ph.D. Earhest Dif- 

 ferentiations of the Egg, 426. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 841. 



Council for 1905, 854. 



Councillors, 853. 



Coxe, Henry Brinton, announcement 

 of death 6f, 685. 



Crosby, Cyrus W. A Catalogue of the 

 Erigonese of North America, 772. 



CuUinan, Ralph F., announcement of 

 death of, 756. 



Curators, report of, 844. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D., report of 

 Curators, 844. 



Drown, T. M., announcement of death 

 of, 772. 



Finance, Committee on, 1. 



Elections during 1904, 855. 



Entomological Section, report of, 849. 



Fielde, Adele M. Three Odd Incidents 

 in Ant-Life, 639, 684. 



Fielde, Adele M., and George H. Par- 

 ker. The Reactions of Ants to 

 Material Vibrations, 642, 685. 



Fowler, Henry W. A Collection of 

 Fishes from Sumatra, 2, 119. Note 

 on the Characinidse, 119. Descrip- 

 tion of a New Race of Notropis 

 chalybseus from New Jersey (Plate 

 XVII), 221, 239. New, Little 

 Known and Typical Berycoid Fishes, 

 222. Notes on Fishes from Arkan- 

 sas, Indian Territory and Texas, 241, 

 242. New, Rare or Little Known 

 Scombroids, No. 1 (Plate LI), 757, 

 772. New, Rare and Little Known 

 Scombroids, No. 2, 772. 



General Index, 893. 



Goodspeed, Arthur W. On Radium, 

 221. 



Gulick, Addison. The Fossil Land- 

 Shells of Bermuda (Plate XXXVI), 

 221, 406. 



Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. The 

 Comparative Age of the Different 

 Floristic Elements of Eastern North 

 America, 601, 684. 



Heath, Harold. The Larval Eye of 

 Chitons, 221, 257. 



Index to Genera, etc., 865. 



Instruction and Lectures. Committee 

 on, 1. 




894 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Johnson, Charles W. Annotated List 

 of the Types of Invertebrate Creta- 

 ceous Fossils in the Collection of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, G85. 



Keelev, F. J. A Spencer Objective, 

 475. 



Keller, Ida. Summer Activity of Some 

 Spring Flowers, 481. 



Librarian, report of, 842. 



Library, Committee on, 1. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 848. 



Magee, William S., announcement of 

 death of, 685. 



Martens, Edward von, announcement 

 of death of, 685. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 848. 



Monks, Sarah P. Variability and 

 Autonomy of Phataria (Plate XLII), 

 596, 684. 



Montgomerj-, Thomas H., Jr. De- 

 scriptions of North American Aranese 

 of the Families Lycosidte and Pi- 

 saurida^ (Plates XVIII, XIX, XX), 

 241, 261. The Development and 

 Structure of the Larva of Paragor- 

 dius (Plates XLIX, L), 684, 738. 



Moore, J. Percy. New Polychseta 

 from California (Plates XXXVII, 

 XXXVIII), 481, 484. Sexual 

 Polymorphism in Annelids, 685. 

 Description of a New Species of 

 Earthworm from Georgia, 772, 803. 

 Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 841. 



Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D., and Katherine 

 J. Busch. Sabellidse and Serpulidae 

 from Japan (Plates XI, XII), 119, 

 157. 



Mueller, A. F., M.D., announcement of 

 death of, 756. 



Nelson, James A., Ph.D. The Early 

 Development of Dinophilus : a Study 

 in Cell-Lineage (Plates XLIII- 

 XLVIII), 687. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D., report of Re- 

 cording Secretary, 839. Report of 

 Librarian, 842, 



Oberholser, Harry C. A monograph 

 of the Genus Dendrocincla, 426, 447. 



Officers, 853. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 852. 



Philippi, R. A., announcement of death 

 of, 685. 



Phillips, E. F. Habits of the Honey 

 Bee, 241. The Structure and De- 

 velopment of the Compound Eye of 

 the Honey Bee, 684. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. New Japanese 

 Marine MoUusca: Gastropoda (Plates 

 I-VI), 3. New Japanese Marine 

 Mollusca: Pelecypoda (Plates 

 XXXIX, XL, XLI), 119, 550. 

 Stages of Growth and Decline in 

 the Land Mollusca, 685. New Clau- 

 siliida? of the Japanese Empire — X 

 (Plates LII-LVII), 772, 809. Re- 

 port of the Special Curator of the 

 Department of Mollusca, 846. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and Y. Hirase. De- 

 scriptions of New Land Snails of the 

 Japanese Empire, 616, 684. 



Pilsbry, H. A., and E. G. Vanatta. 

 On Certain Rhachiglossate Gastro- 

 poda Eliminated from the AquiUidte, 

 592, 684. 



Publications, Committee on, 1. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 839. 



Rehn, J. A. G. Studies in the Orthop- 

 terous Family Phasmidse, 2, 38. A 

 Study of the Mammalian Genus 

 Chilonycteris, 180, 181. A Study of 

 the Bats of the Genus Dermonotus 

 (Pteronotus auct.), 241, 250. A 

 Revision of the Mammalian Genus 

 Macro tus, 427. Notes on Orthop- 

 tera from Northern and Central 

 Mexico, 513, 684. Notes on Orthop- 

 tera from Arizona, New Mexico and 

 Colorado, 562, 684. Studies in the 

 Orthopterous Subfamilies Acrydiinae 

 (Tettiginaj), Eumastacinse and Pros- 

 copinse, 658, 684. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Heb- 

 ard. The Orthoptera of Thomas 

 County, Georgia, and Leon County, 

 Florida, 685, 774. A Contribution 

 to the Knowledge of the Orthoptera 

 of South and Central Florida, 772. 



Sharp, Benjamin. Fishing in the 

 North Sea, 685. 



Sharp, Benjamin, and Henry W. 

 Fowler. The Fishes of Nantucket, 

 504, 684. 



Sheppard, Edwin, announcement of 

 death of, 426. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D., report of 

 Entomological Section. 850. 



Sommerville, Maxwell, announcement 

 of death of, 481. 



Special Curator of the Department of 

 Mollusca, report of, 846. 



Standing Committees, 1. E' - -^ 



Stanley, Henry M., announcement of 

 death of, 481. 



Stevens, N. M. On the Germ Cells and 

 the Embryology of Planaria sim- 

 plissima Curtis (Plate XIII-XVI), 

 180, 208. 




1904.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



895 



Stone. Witmer. Xotes on a Collection 



of Californian Mammals, 586, 684. 



Birds of Galapagos Islands, 756. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 



852 

 Stone/'Witmer, and A. S. Bunnell. On 



a Collection of Birds and Mammals 



from Mount Sanhedrin, California, 



576, 684. 

 Thomson, M. T. The IVIorphology 



and Metamorphosis of the Ali- 



mentary Canal of the Mosquito 



684. 

 Tryon, Edward K., Jr., announcement 



of death of, 685. 

 Wetherill, Henry Emerson. A New 



Centrifuge, 685. Some Practical 



Color Tests, 772. 

 Woodhouse, Samuel W., M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 756. 

 Zittel, Karl, announcement of death of, 



180. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLIII. 



NELSON ON DINOPHILUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 15 



PLATE XLIV. 



NELSON ON DINOPHILUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLV. 



iai-2-t 



NELSON ON DINOPHILUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLVI. 



2b'^ la^i 



sb^a 



ibi-' "'-=! lb 

 38 lb"' sbi 5b 



lai.a.li 



,CV2,11 



NELSON ON DINOPHILUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLVII. 



NELSON OM DINOPHILUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE XLVIII. 



.sto.l 



NELSON ON DINOPHILUS. 





PLATE XLIX. 



PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



MONTGOMERY. LARVA OF PARAGOBDIUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



MONTGOMERY. LARVA OF PARAGORDIUS. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE LTI. 



i^ 





10 





Pilsbry, del. 



12 



"''/i , \ 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIIDvE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE LIII. 



19 



Pilsbry, del. 

 PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIID^S. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE LIV. 



37 38 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIIDvE. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE LV. 



42 



^l 



\^IP 57 

 Klsbry, del. 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIID^E. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 



PLATE LVI. 



r^ 



V^siPy' 



64 



\ / 65 



74 



66 67 



r\ 



\ 



68 69 



r^^ 



i ■~\ 



70 71 \: 





O 



76 77 



m 



78 



^: 



80 



V 



81 ! 



\J 85 86 \^ 



83 



Pilsbry. del. 



/ 



82 



\ 



84 - "-— ^ 67 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIID^E 



88 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1904. 





w 



w 



89 



-<^ 



IV^ 



98 



/!:*■: 



90 



iib--^-' 



91 



\. 



92 





99 



V 



105 



106 



107 



108 



V~5 

 \ 



PLATE LVII. 



93 



94 



96 



97 



I 



" "'^>^"' 



100 



101 



1^ 



102 





104 



103 





1 1 1 



i 



/ '■ 





1 12 



.e. '^ 



-^ 



'f / 



113 114 



110 VJ x^j 



PILSBRY. NEW JAPANESE CLAUSILIID^. 



115 







MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



WH lflS3 3 





