



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume lix 



1907 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1907-1 90S 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 25, 1908. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Pkoceedtngs for 1907 have been 

 mailed as follows : — 



Pages 1-113. mailed April '2, 1907. 



113-128 ■' April 5, 1907. 



129-148 " April 21,1907. 



149-180 " May 28,1907. 



181-244 " June 21, 1907. 



245-308 " August IG, 1907. 



309-388 ' October 2, 1907. 



389-410 " November 8,1907. 



417-432 " December 4,1907. 



433-448 " January 17, 1908. 



449-480 " January 27, 1908. 



481-512 " February 5,1908. 



513-57G " February 25,1908. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



llecordincj Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., ex-of)icio. 

 EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



n 1 1 "j 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



CoxKLiN, Edwix G., Ph.D. The Embryology of Fulgiir : A Study 

 of the Influence of Volk Development (Plates XXIII- 

 XXVIII), 320 



Crawley, Hoavard. The Polycystitl Gregarines of the United 



States (Thh-d Contribution) (Plate XVIII), .... 220 



Dall, William Healey. On the Synonymic History of the • 



Genera Clava Martyn, and Cerithium Bruguiere, . . 363 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Serranida, 249 



A Collection of Fishes from Victoria, Australia, .... 419 

 Notes on Lancelets and Lampreys, 461 



Garrison, F. Lynwood, Notes on Minerals, 445 



Gill, Theodore. Note on the Genus Kuhlia, 150 



Gillette, C. P. Chermes of Colorado Conifers (Plates I-XI), . 3 



Heath, Harold. A New Turbellarian from Hawaii (Plate XIV), 145 



King, Helen Dean. Bertramia bufonis, a new Sporozoan Para- 

 site of Bufolentiginosus (Plate XXII), 273 



Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr. The Distribution of the North 



American Gordiacea, with description of a New Species, 270 



i\IooRE, J. Percy, Ph.D. Description of new Species of Spioni- 



form Annelids (Plates XV, XVI), 195 



Description of a New Species of Annelid from Wood's Hole, . 448 



Nelson, James A., Ph.D. The Morphology of [Dinophilus con- 



klinin.sp. (Plates XII, XIII), 82 



Palmer, Clayton F. The Anatoni}'- of the Californian Haliotidte 



(Plate XXX), . . . ._ 396 



Pilsbry, II. A. Origin of the Tropical Forms of the Land Mol- 



luscan Fauna of Southern Florida, 193 



New and Little-known Whelks from Northern Japan and the 



Kuril Islands (Plates XIX, XX), 243 



Notes on some Pacific Cirripedes (Plate XXIX), . . . .• 360 



iii 




IV CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



Notes on the Cirripede Genus Megalasma (Plate XXXI) , 408 



New Clausiliidai of the Japanese Empire — XI (Plate XXXII, 



XXXIII, XXXIV), 499 



Rehn, James A. G. Notes on Orthoptera from Southern Arizona, 



with Descriptions of New Species, 24 



Non-Saltatorial ami Acridoid Orthoptera from Sapucay, 



Paraguay, 151 



Orthoptera of the Families Tettigonidse and Gryllidse from 



Sapucay, Paraguay o70 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan Hebard. Orthoptera from 



Northern Florida, 279 



Smith, Burnett. Note on the Value of the Gastropod Apex as a 



Means of Classification, 194 



A Contribution to the Morphology of Pyrula ( Plate XVII), . 208 

 A New Species of Athleta, and a Note on the Morphology of 



Athleta petrosa, 229 



St©ne, Witmer. The Life- Areas of Southern New Jersey, . . 452 

 Surface, Frank M. The Early Development of a Polyclad, 



Planocera inquilinaWh. (Plates XXXV-XL), ... 514 

 Vanatta, E. G. Notes on the Leaf-hairs of Lesquerella (Plate 



XXI) 247 



Van Duzee, E. P. Studies of North American Fulgoridse, . 467 



Vaux, George, Jr., and William S. Observations made in 1907 



on Glaciers in Alberta and British Columbia, . 560 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADEEPHIA. 



1907. 



January 15. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The death of Edward Coles, a member, August, 1906, was announced. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, EfHngham B. Morris, 

 Horatio C. Wood, M.D., and the Treasurer. 



Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, Henr}^ A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D., Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., and Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Library. — Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Thomas Biddle, M.D., Benjamin 

 Sharp, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., and Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Benjamin Smith Lyman, Henry A. 

 Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, Philip P. Calvert and Dr. C. Newlin 

 Peirce. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Arthur Erwin Brown, 

 Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., John Cadwalader and Charles B. Pen- 

 rose, M.D. 




2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The President is, ex-ofjicio, a member of all Standing Committees. 



Dr. Henry Leffman made a communication on diamonds and 

 diamond mining in southern Africa. (No abstract.) 



Edwin T. Simpson and ]\Iary W. James were elected members. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



CHERMES OF COLORADO CONIFERS. 

 BY C. P. GILLETTE. 



Genus Chcrmcs comprises a small number of species that have not 

 received the attention which is their due in this country. As an 

 economic group the}" are of little importance so far as their injuries 

 to forest trees are concerned, but some of the species become decidedly- 

 injurious to pines and spruces when used as shade trees in parks or 

 private grounds. 



The apterous females belonging to the genus are characterized by 

 having broad oval bodies, very short three-jointed antennae, short 

 stout legs, short stout beaks with very long setse, and a large number 

 of glandular patches upon head, thorax and abdomen for the secretion 

 of long waxen threads for protection. The winged females have 

 short stout five-jointed antennae, very broad heads, suckers at the 

 distal ends of the tibiae and strong anterior wings with two unbranched 

 discoidal veins. Cornicles in both forms wanting. 



The males, at least in the United States, are unknown. Reproduc- 

 tion is always by means of eggs which are attached in clusters to 

 leaves or bark by means of silken threads. 



Chermes cooleyi n. sp. (Plates I, II, III, IV.) 



Cher>}ics abietis L., Cooley, 34th Report Massachusetts Agricultural College, 



1S97; Author's separata, p. 4. 

 Chermes abietes L., Fletcher, Report of Entomologist and Botanist, Canada 



Central Experimental Farm, p. 190. 

 Chermes abietis L., Fletcher, ibid., 1903, p. 167. 

 Chermes sibericus Chldky., Fletcher, ibid., 1903, p. 167. 



Wliile I cannot be certain that the records by Dr. Fletcher given 

 above refer to Chermes cooleyi, it is strongly probable that such is the 

 case, as I have examined immature but fully formed galls that were 

 kindly sent me from the Northwest by Dr. Fletcher, and also by Dr. 

 Hopkins of the U. S. Bureau of Entomology, and they were in both 

 instances large strong galls, exactly like the typical galls of Chermes 

 cooleyi. 



My studies of this species have been wholly in the West, and I have 

 not seen either winged or wingless examples of the closely allied species 

 abietis and sibericus. Dr. C. H. Fernald kindly sent me galls of abictis,^ 

 however, from Massachusetts which seem quite unlike the galls of 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



cooleyi. The galls of abietis involve a comparatively small number of 

 needles causing very large cells, in one of which thirty to fifty or more 

 lice may develop, and the beginning of the gall formation is said to be 

 caused by the punctures of the stem-mother at or close to a bud. The 

 galls, it seems, seldom kill the terminal growth of the twig, and the 

 number of eggs deposited by the winged female is given as "never 

 much exceeding fifty," and the females are spoken of as though their 

 eggs are freely deposited upon leaves of the same species of spruce that 

 bears their galls. All these conditions are quite different in case of 

 Chermcs cooleyi, as may be seen by the account given below. 



Chermes abietis is also described by Buckton and Cooley as having 

 but one joint to the tarsus; but this is doubtless an error, as all the 

 species I have studied have two joints, though the first is short and 

 easily overlooked. 



I sent specimens of both the galls and the lice of Chermes cooleyi to 

 Dr. N. Cholodkowsk}^ of St. Petersburg, Russia, asking him if it were 

 possible that this Western Chermes could be abietis or sibericus, and in his 

 reply, written October 23, 1904, he said, "This is decidedly not Cherines 

 abietis, nor is it Chermes sibericus, but a new species." 



Life Habits. — The small hibernating form of this louse spends the 

 fall and winter months upon the twigs of its host-plant, with its long 

 setse thrust into the crevices in the bark between the needles. The 

 heavy winter skin is cast at Fort Collins about the middle of April, 

 and in a day or two the white secretion again shows the location of the 

 louse, which is always upon the under side of the twig. 



The first eggs are deposited at Fort Collins about April 25, before 

 the female has attained her maximum size. On May 3, 1906, three of 

 the fifteen females examined were laying eggs, and the largest niunber 

 found at one female was twelve. The white waxy threads completely 

 hide both the eggs and the female at first, and serve doubtless as a 

 protection to them (Plate I, figs. A, B. C). These white patches from 

 a single female may measure four or five millimeters across and cover 

 several hundred eggs. Counts of a few patches gave the following 

 numbers: One female, 344 unhatched, 75 hatched; another, 561 

 unhatched, hatched; two females together, 751 unhatched, 200 

 hatched, an average of 483. I have frequently counted four or five of 

 these egg-masses within two inches of the end of a twig, and I have 

 counted as many as fifteen females ovipositing on this length of stem. 

 About May 20, before the hibernating females had finished laying their 

 eggs, those that were first deposited began to hatch, and by May 25 

 the lice were hatching rapidly and locating at the bases of the tender 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 5 



now loaves that woro just hojiinniii}!; to show at the terminal buds. I 

 have been unable to see that the punctures of the stem-mothers have 

 any effect to jiroduce the galls, which seems to be caused entirely 

 by the irritation produced by the young lice inserting their beaks and 

 sucking the sap at the bases of the young growing needles. In fact, 

 only those needles enter into the formation of the gall that actually 

 have lice located at their liases. It sometimes happens that only 

 a few needles are attacked and these needles become swollen at their 

 bases, while all the others on the new growth of the twig are normal ; 

 and it is not infrequent that a few of tlie needles of the new growth fail 

 to have any lice locate in their axils, and these needles remain normal 

 in form on a gall where all others are greatly swollen. It seems pos- 

 sible, however, that the jiuncture of the stem-mother may have some 

 influop.co upon the formation of the gall, as I transferred hatching egg- 

 masses in se\'eral instances to twigs where there was no egg-mass and 

 in no case did a gall form or any of the lice live. I also transferred the 

 eggs to tender new growths of red fir (Pscudofsuga mucronata) , but none 

 of the young hatching from the eggs became established uj)on the 

 changed food plant. 



The galls (Pis. 1 and II) develop with surprising rapidity, and are due 

 to the thickening and lateral enlargement of the bases of the needles 

 together with the enlarging of the stem. In color, the growing galls 

 vary from light green to a dark purple. They are always terminal in 

 position and kill the end of the twig, except when the lice attack the 

 bases of a few needles only on one side of the new growth, leaving the 

 others, including those at the end, to develop normally, and such galls 

 are quite uncommon. 



The size of the gall depends upon the vigor of the tree and the num- 

 ber of lice that are at hand to attack the new leaves. A weak growing 

 twig cannot develop a large gall. A'igorous growing young silver 

 spruces {Picea pmryana) on the campus of the Colorado Agricultural 

 College often develop galls that are If to 2 inches in length and h to f 

 of an inch in thickness inside of the needles. Average galls have from 

 75 to 150 chambers and consequently a like number of needles, with 

 from 1 to 10 or 12 lice to a chamber. Air. Charles Jones counted 

 the needles upon three large galls for me which ran as follows: 125, 170 

 and 215, an average of 170 needles to a gall. At the base there was an 

 average of about 12, at the middle about 8 and near the tip about 5 

 young lice to a chamber. The largest number found in one cavity 

 was 32. 



Mr. George Weldon reareil and counted the lice from five large-sized 

 galls for me and they ran as follows : 463, 602, 750, 894, and 096. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The lice within the galls are light red in color, and their bodies are 

 more or less covered with the white waxy secretion which occurs both 

 in the form of a powder and as threads. It might seem that there 

 would be no need of this secretion as a protection in the galls, but it is 

 of the greatest importance here as the lice give off a large amount of 

 liquid excretion, which would drown them if it was not prevented from 

 touching their bodies by their covering which is not wet by the excre- 

 tion. The cast skins also come into service here. Prof. Cooley has 

 called attention to the fact that the lice within the galls of Chermes 

 abietis retain their cast skins for a time, fastened to the posterior end of 

 the body. If one of the galls is broken open when nearly mature, the 

 cast skins may be seen filled as full as they can hold with the liquid 

 excretions. Thc,y may be shaken out in the hand and examined, but 

 are easily broken. Thej^ appear like plump white models (ghosts) of 

 the lice that shed them. 



About the 1st of July at Fort Collins the lice begin to transform to 

 pupse, and a few days later the most advanced galls begin to open. 

 The earliest gall found with lice escaping in 1906 was taken by Mr. L. C. 

 Bragg, July 3, on a tree exposed to the open sun on the south side of a 

 building. On Juh' 16, trees most exposed to the sun and not very 

 thrifty had matured nearly all their galls and most of the lice had 

 escaped. Large, more thrifty trees, and especially those that were 

 shaded much of the time, still had most of their galls closed, and par- 

 ticularly upon branches near the ground. Galls broken open at this 

 time expose the pupte, which seem to pack every chamber full, and all 

 their heads point outward from the centre toward the place of exit, 

 ready to escape once more into the light of day as soon as the opening 

 is made large enough. The pupce cling to nearby leaves, usually those 

 of the gall, and shed their skins. During the few hours that the lice 

 stay upon the leaves the little white patches of cottony secretion begin 

 to show like masses of mycelial threads of a fungus. 



After a few hours of resting upon the galls the winged lice all leave 

 and go, so far as I have been able to trace them, to the red fir {Pseudo- 

 tsuga mucronata), where they settle upon the leaves, insert their beaks, 

 and begin almost immediately to lay eggs, which accumulate in large 

 piles beneath their wings. Each egg is anchored by a short silken 

 thread attached to one end. The threads vary in length from those 

 that are shorter than an egg to those that are more than twice that 

 length. The threads also cling to the eggs and to one another after 

 they are loosened from the leaf, so it is very difficult to separate them 

 out from the"general cluster (see PI. IV, figs. B and D). The white 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



wax threads from the head, thorax and sides of the abdomen also 

 grow very rapidly, so that, with the aid of the wings, both louse and 

 eggs are almost completely hidden in two or three days. Egg laying 

 proceeds very rajiidly. From numerous counts made by the writer, 

 and others made for me by Mr. G. P. Weldon, I extract the following: 

 Seven large egg clusters, selected July 16 and 18, 1904, ran as follows 

 in numbers of eggs: 96, 111, 127, 133, 136, 151, 155, an average of 

 approximately 150. Seven medium egg clusters from leaves of red 

 fir, where the lice had been located but 48 hours, gave counts as follows : 

 63. 66, 70, 74, 75, 88, and 104. Seven selected large egg clusters, where 

 lice had been located only 48 hours, ran as follows: 90, 111, 126, 131, 

 133 and 150. ^Vhen we consider the large size of these eggs as com- 

 pared with the females that lay them, it seems to me this is a develop- 

 ment of reproductive tissue that is simply marvelous. These winged 

 lice seem never to change their location after they have once inserted 

 their beaks and begun to lay eggs. 



Occasionally one of these lice can be found feeding and laying eggs 

 upon leaves of the blue (silver) spruce, but it is quite rare. By enclos- 

 ing thousands of the lice in paper sacks upon twigs of this tree, I got 

 enough to locate and lay eggs so as to get a few counts. The lice did 

 not seem to be thrifty, however, and the number of eggs laid was 

 smaller. Four lice located 48 hours on blue spruce deposited 16, 17, 

 19, and 36 eggs respectively. Seven of the largest patches where the 

 lice had been settled 72 hours ran in numbers as follows: 33, 50, 53, 

 55, 74, 84, and 96; an average of about 64, or less than half the average 

 number in large egg clusters upon red fir. On July 20, 1906, it required 

 careful search to find one of these lice located upon blue spruce, w'hile 

 the red firs near them had one or more of the lice on nearh' ever}' leaf, 

 and many leaves were loaded with five or six of them (PI. II, fig. Ci 

 and D). 



Lice continue to emerge from the galls till about July 25, and all 

 apparently are females. 



The eggs laid by these winged females hatch in from six to seven 

 days. Eggs laid July 12 began hatching July IS, and were all hatched 

 on the 19th. The lice from these eggs are yellow at first, but soon 

 become nearly black in color fringed with short wax threads similar 

 to variety coweni (PI. Yl, figs. A, A^). Many of the lice hatching at 

 this time remain beneath the dead bodies of the winged females, which 

 die soon after the eggs are laid, but most of them scatter about over 

 the leaves and come to rest chiefl}' upon the older leaves near the bases 

 of the small twigs. Here they insert their set* and remain till spring 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



without growing perceptibly in size. These develop into stem-mothers 

 upon the red fir the following spring and are probably the chief, but 

 not the only, cause of the form described below as coiceni occurring upon 

 the red fir. It is also strongly probable that the stem-mothers for the 

 two summer broods of Chermes cooleyi come in a similar manner from 

 the winged females of variety coiceni of the red fir that SAvarm upon the 

 blue spruce in May, as described in my mention of the life history of 

 that form below, though it is possible that the few females of cooleyi 

 settling upon the blue spruce also give rise to stem-mothers the follow- 

 ing spring, though in my attempts to follow these lice through the fall 

 they have always perished. This brood of eggs laid by the winged 

 females are practically all hatched by the end of July at Fort Collins. 



Host Plants and Habitat. — I have found this species occurring in 

 Colorado at Fort Collins, Greeley, Loveland, Boulder, Denver, Colo- 

 rado Springs, Palmer Lake, Estes Park, and up Long's Peak and Pike's 

 Peak to timber line. l\\ the lower altitudes (from 4,000 to 8,000 feet) 

 I have observed this gall chiefly upon blue spruce, but from 8,000 feet 

 to timber line I have noticed it chiefly upon Engelmann spruce (Picea 

 engelmanni). On August 15, 1903, I noted this gall as being very 

 abundant on Engelmann spruce along the trail from Mill's Ranch to 

 timber line on Long's Peak, and I have received the galls from the same 

 locality sent by ]\Ir. Enos Mills. The galls occm- in small numbers to 

 the limit of timber, but they become specially abundant three or four 

 hmidred feet lower down. The galls at timber line on August 15 were 

 still closed, but a few hundred feet lower the lice were emerging. I 

 have also received galls from the Sitcha spruce from the mountains of 

 western Canada, sent me by Dr. James Fletcher, that seem undoubtedly 

 to be of this species. This Chermes is surely a native of the Rocky 

 Mountain region and, so far as I know, occurs only upon the trees 

 mentioned. I find the galls most numerous in parks or lawns where 

 the blue spruce and red fir are clustered together. 



Stem-mother. — The stem-mother, in winter or early spring, is a 

 grayish appearing object, about .6 mm. long b}" .3 mm. wide. The 

 body of the louse is almost black, and the dark color shows through the 

 white secretion which radiates in short stout threads about the margins 

 of the bod}^ and rises in a crest down the median line of the back (PI. 

 Ill, fig. A). These hibernating lice are removed with some difficulty 

 on account of the long setse which are inserted deeply into the bark. 

 After shedding the heavy winter coat the louse appears dark green in 

 color, being lighter beneath and towards the posterior end of the 

 abdomen, and becomes rusty brown later. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rUlLADELI'HIA. 9 



Adult Apterous Female (PI. Ill, figs. B. C).— Fully grown examples 

 measure 1 to 1.5 mm. in length by .8 to 1.2 mm. in width. The color 

 is a dark rusty brown, and the entire dorsal surface is mottled with dark 

 spots, representing the wax glands which occur upon all segments but 

 the last. The arrangement of these glands is about as follows : On the 

 head, nearly a continuous line of the gland pores on anterior margin, 

 and two patches on a side near the hind margin; on the segments of the 

 thorax and abdomen there are three glands on a side, but segments 5 

 to 8 of the abdomen have the patches more or less united, especially 

 in the dorsal rows. The other glands of the dorsum have pores quite 

 uniform in size and rather small (compare with var. coweni, PI. VI, 

 fig. B). On the ventral surface there is a pair of small patches upon 

 the head caudad to the bases of the antennae, and another pair of about 

 the same size just in front of the middle coxse. The antennse (PL 

 III, fig. F) are very small, about as long as the femora of the front 

 pair of legs, or .14 mm., first and second joints short and stout and of 

 about equal lengths, third nearly cylindrical and nearly twice as long 

 as joints one and two combined, and with tw^o tactile hairs at the tip. 

 Legs (PL III, fig. G) short, rather weak, tarsi two-jointed, the basal 

 one very short and appearing as a short piece on the under side. 



Eggs. — The eggs are light amber yellow at fiirst covered with a white 

 powder. They are attached each by a silken thread and the whole 

 mass clings together, so that it is difficult to separate a few from the 

 general mass (PL I, fig. C). Before hatching, the eggs darken some 

 and the eyes of the embryo show- plainly through the shell as two dark 

 spots. Length, .3 mm., width .17 mm. ; good average size of egg-cluster, 

 2 mm. 



Pupa. — The pupse, when they first leave the galls, are of a uniform 

 rusty brow'n color throughout, lightly dusted with a white powder. On 

 leaving the gall, they walk out upon the leaves, come to rest, and in a 

 short time the pupal skin splits over the head and thorax, and in a few 

 minutes more the adult emerges. At first it is shining rufous in appear- 

 ance with the wings deep green, which color is quite marked for some 

 time after the wings are fully unfolded. This process takes about ten 

 minutes. The costal nerve is light yellow from the first. 



Winged Female (Pis. II, IV and XI). — The winged female is bright 

 shining rufous at first, but by the time the wings are spread the eyes 

 are black, and a few hours later the head and mesothorax are black 

 also. The other portions gradually become darker, the abdomen 

 retaining the rusty color longest. In about an hour after the pupal 

 skin is shed the white secretion begins to show^ over the wax glands 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



and the louse soon flies away. The size varies much, the usual range 

 being between 1.5 and 2 mm. in length. The ivi7igs are a little smoky 

 with a large stigma that is slightly green and the costal nerve is yellow. 

 The fore wing in a medium large louse is about 2.5 mm. long, or about 

 1.6 times the length of the body, with two simple discoidal veins, and 

 one stigmal. Hind wing with one discoidal vein, length of the hind 

 wing about equalling the length of the body. AntenncB dusky, five- 

 jointed, about three-fourths as long as the greatest transverse diameter 

 of the head. Joints 1 and 2 short, stout, cylindrical and about 

 equal in length; joint 1 rather smooth, but the remaining ones with 

 impressed transverse lines or wrinkles. Joints 3 to 5 subequal 

 in length, with joint 3 usually a little stouter and more conical; 

 joints 4 and 5 rather slender, not especially enlarged at distal end, 

 nor swollen for the transverse sensoria, of which there is one to each 

 of the three terminal joints; fifth joint with two short hairs at distal 

 end. The arrangement of glands is shown in PI. IV, fig. A, and is 

 about as follows : On the head two large transverse patches on anterior 

 margin nearly coalescing, and a long narrow patch extending across 

 the hind margin which may be divided at the median line; on the 

 prothorax a long narrow patch occupying the entire lateral margin 

 upon either side, and two long narrow patches along the hind margin 

 nearly meeting at the middle line, and nearly or quite meeting the 

 posterior ends of the lateral patches that are usually reflected mesad a 

 short distance along the hind margin of the segment ; mesothorax with 

 two small patches mesally located near the hind margin, in line with 

 the two middle rows of glands upon the metathorax and abdomen; 

 metathorax with the middle pair of glands only; abdomen with three 

 rows of glands on either side over the first seven segments, except that 

 the middle row is lacking on segments one and two. The lateral rows 

 have the larger patches, and these rows are continued upon the eighth 

 segment; the glands of the middle rows are smallest, and all the four 

 dorsal rows become smaller as they recede from the thorax. The 

 number of gland patches is not constant and the weaker ones are often 

 wanting, and the larger ones sometimes coalesce. 

 Chermes cooleyi var. coweni n. v. 



Tills louse has been injuriously abundant on small trees of red fir 

 in lawns and parks of northeastern Colorado for a number of years. I 

 first observed it on trees standing upon the campus of the Colorado 

 State Agricultural College, where it has been abundant for ten years 

 past at least. A brief description of the winged female was given in 

 Bulletin 31, p. 115, of the Colorado Experiment Station, by Mr. J. H. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. U 



Cowcii. 1 hav(> also nu'iitioned this louse on p. 17 (tf the 1901 report 

 of the same station. This form varies enough from cooleiji to be con- 

 sidered a distinct species; but as these two seem to owe their differences 

 to an alternation of food })lants, I have thou.cht best to con-idcr the 

 foi-ni upon red lir a variety of coolciji. 



Life History. — The winter is spent as minute black lice, each being 

 surrounded with a halo of white waxy threads and resting upon the 

 upper surface of a leaf. They often occur in a line along the median 

 groove. A few warm days al^out the last week in March or the first 

 week in April cause the lice to grow, excrete drops of nectar, and burst 

 the old larval skin. This first spring moult takes place at Fort Collins 

 al^out April 1st. The hibernating form is shown on Pis. V and \I, 

 figs. A and A^ As soon as the old skin has been cast, little patches of 

 white secretion begin to appear along the dorsal surface, and in a few 

 days more the entire body will be hidden by long curled threads of this 

 material. About the 20th of April egg-laying begins, though not all of 

 the lice develop together, and the time of the first egg-laying varies 

 with the earliness of the season. From twenty-fi^•e to forty light yellow 

 eggs are laid by each louse, and these hatch freely just as the new leaves 

 begin to open at the ends of the twigs, and nearly all are hatched by the 

 last of iMay. The lice migrate on to the new growths, insert their setse 

 into the tender leaves and begin to feed and grow, and apparently 

 they never change their location afterwards. This first brood from 

 eggs for the year is dimorphic, in that about one-half remain wingless 

 like the preceding generation, while the other half develop wings. The 

 adults of the alate form appear about June 10; the wingless ones lay 

 eggs like their predecessors, and the young hatching from them, for the 

 most part, insert their setse in the leaves, take on a dark color, secrete a 

 little of the white waxy material about themselves and upon their backs, 

 and so remain until the following spring before growing perceptibly in 

 size, and then become stem-mothers; but those that acquire wings all 

 leave the red fir and, so far as I have been able to trace them, settle 

 upon the leaves of the blue spruce {Picea parrycma), though it is prob- 

 able that they do settle on Engelmann spruce as well. Some of the 

 apterous females continue to develop and lay eggs, especially in shady 

 places and upon tender new leaves, until late in July or even longer; 

 but for the most part development closes with the young hatching 

 from the second brood of eggs for the year, making two full broods 

 annually besides the partial broods. 



The winged examples that migrate to the blue spruce settle upon 

 the needles, secrete a large mass of cottony threads, deposit a patch 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.^ 



of 30 to 40 eggs beneath their wings and die. The eggs hatch in about 

 a week and the young remain on the leaves without developing until 

 spring, as in case of most of the young from the second brood of eggs 

 by the apterous individuals. 



When abundant, early in the summer, the little snowy white patches 

 concealing the apterous females and their young are so numerous as 

 to attract attention to the foliage (PI. V, figs. B, C and D). Wlien the 

 first brood from eggs for the year hatch and settle upon the new leaves, 

 the latter often become crooked and disorted in shape and yellow in 

 color (PI. V, fig. C). I do not think I have ever seen a tree killed by 

 this louse., but they are often made to look v.ery unthrifty and sickly in 

 color of foliage. 



Hibernating Female. — The hibernating female, or stem-mother, 

 grows very little if at all, after hatching from the egg the previous June 

 or July, until the warm days of spring. The color, which seems black, 

 is reall}^ a very dark green and the body is fringed all round with short 

 white threads of waxy secretion, and down the middle of the back there 

 is often a crest of the same threads, though these are not always present, 

 and the entire dorsal surface is finely dusted with wax particles that 

 glisten with a silvery white light. The setse are considerably longer 

 than the bod}^ and are inserted in the leaves, through the fall and 

 winter (PI. VI, figs. A and A^). The length before spring develop- 

 ment varies little from .4 of a millimeter. The antenna is three- 

 jointed and little exceeds a front tibise in length, first and second joints 

 short and stout and about equal in length, and the third joint fully 

 one-half longer than joints 1 and 2 together, and quite scabrous in 

 appearance due to transverse impressed lines, and with about four 

 hairs at the tip. About the middle of April the liquid excretion is being 

 given off freely, and the waxy secretions now begin to show plainly as 

 transverse roAvs of white spots across the dorsal surface (PI. V, figs. 

 A. A.). When the winter skin is shed, the louse changes to a rusty 

 brown color, darker towards the head. Adult specimens measure from 

 .8 to 1.2 millimeters in length and from .6 to .9 mm. in greatest 

 breadth. The antenna is still short, three-jointed, the third joint 

 rather longer than joints 1 and 2 combined, and the whole length 

 about .09 mm. (PI. VI, fig. E). 



The icax glands are arranged about as in cooleyi, but the pores are 

 larger and fewer in number, at least for the glands anterior to the 

 fourth abdominal segment (PI. VI, figs. B and C). On the head there 

 are three gland patches on either side, and then there are three rows on 

 a side over the succeeding body segments to the sixth abdominal ; on 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



the seventh the median glands unite, reducing the number to five, and 

 upon the eighth segment but three occur. A pair of rather large 

 glands occur between the antenna below, and there is a small one on 

 either side in front of the middle coxa?. The rostrum is short and stout, 

 with joints 1 and 2 subequal in length. 



Pupa (PI. M, fig. F).— Length, .7 to 1 mm. Color light to a dull 

 reddish brown, Ijecoming darker as the time for moulting approaches. 

 From the front of the head are two short, broad, outwardly curved 

 pencils of white secretion, one on either side of the median line. The 

 body is also more or less whitened by a covering of fine white powder, 

 but there are no Jong waxy filaments; head, thorax and wing pads a 

 little darker than the remainder of the body. Dark spots marking the 

 presence of developing wax glands may be seen as follows: Upon the 

 front of the head two large ones, and back of these two others of smaller 

 size close to the hind margin; on the prothorax a very large lateral 

 gland upon either side, and mesad of each of these four small ones; 

 mesothorax with one lateral and one submedian spot on either side, 

 both small; metathorax with three spots on each side in a line near the 

 hind margin. On the abdomen there are six longitudinal rows extend- 

 ing over the first five segments, and the lateral rows over two or three 

 segments more. 



Winged Female (PI. VII, fig. A). — Length, commonly .7 to 1.2 mm. 

 Color reddish brown with head and thorax black or blackish, legs and 

 antenna? a little dusky. Anterior wings 1.4 to 1.8 mm. in length, 

 slightly smoky, venation normal; posterior wings without transverse 

 nervure. After locating upon the blue spruces the body soon 

 becomes nearly buried in a mass of wliite waxy threads, as in the case 

 of cooleyi. Antenna nearly as long as the greatest width of the head 

 (about .25 mm.), joints 1 and 2 short and subequal, joints 3 and 4 

 also subequal with the fourth a trifle the longer, fifth joint slighth^ 

 longer than the fourth, joints 3, 4 and 5 deeply transversely 

 marked with impressed lines and much enlarged toward the distal 

 ends, and each with a transverse sensorium of moderate size, all the 

 joints robust (PI. VII, fig. B). Legs dusky brown and rather stout. 

 Glands arranged about as follows : a large one on the front of the head 

 on either side at the base of the antenna, and on the posterior margin 

 of the head, close to the median line, another pair of smaller glands; 

 on the prothorax, a large gland patch on the posterior lateral margin 

 that extends a short distance along the hind margin, and a smaller 

 patch on the hind margin near the median line upon either side. Upon 

 the mesathorax, one pair of large submedian glands, and upon the 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



abdomen there are three longitudinal rows upon either side, the middle 

 row being quite small and occurring only upon segments 2 to 6. 

 The inner rows occur upon segments 1 to 6, and the lateral rows 

 upon segments 1 to 8. In a large series considerable variation 

 will be found in the number of these glands, as some of the smaller 

 patches often are wanting. I have found this form developing on the 

 red jfir only. 



The distinguishing characters are the short stout beak, the small 

 size and large pores of the dorsal glands, and the large size of the gland 

 patches between the antennse in the apterous form and the robust 

 antenna and small sensoria of the winged form. 

 Chermes montanus n. sp. 



On July 20, 1906, Mr. Harley F. Wilson collected galls of what seems 

 undoubtedly to be a new species of Chermes at Victor, Colorado, at an 

 altitude of about 9,000 feet. The inmates had already left some of the 

 galls and from others they were just emerging. The writer visited the 

 locality August 5 following, to determine what spruces these galls 

 occur upon, and found them upon blue spruce only. On the same trees 

 with them were old and new galls of Chermes cooleiji. 



The galls (PI. YII, fig. C) are cone-shaped, from three-fourths to 

 more than one inch in length, and are a modified development of the 

 new growth at the tip of a twig. Each needle, instead of thickening 

 as in case of the galls of cooleyi, broadens in the middle and becomes 

 concave on the inner or axillary surface. The broadened portion may 

 include nearly the entire needle at the base of the gall, but towards 

 the tip the broadened part extends a less distance from the base. The 

 stem from which the needles arise is little if any swollen. The lice 

 cause the death of the end of the twig, and as the tissue dies and begins 

 to dry the modified leaves open so that the lice readily escape. Because 

 of the loose structure of these galls Syrphus larvse prey freely upon the 

 lice. 



Pupa. — The pupse seem darker in color than those of cooleyi, but 

 othei'wise I cannot see that they are specially different. 



Winged Adult. — When the pupal skin is first cast, the wing pads 

 are yellow in color instead of green as in cooleyi, and the costal and sub- 

 costal nerves retain the same color after the wings unfold. The length 

 of the body varies between 1.5 and 2.2 millimeters. The color 

 is a reddish brown, abdomen rust brown, antennae and legs dusky, 

 wings normal, hind wings with one cross vein, and slightly 

 smoky. Antennse (PI. XI, fig. A) five-jointed, joints rather stout and 

 somewhat more enlarged at distal ends than in cooleyi, the striations 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF Pill I.ADELPIll A. 15 



uj^on joints 3 to 5 quite stroufjly ciirvod, especially on joints 4 and 5, 

 tiie convexity being towards the distal ends of the joints. Joints 1 and 

 2 short, stout, cylindrical; joint 3 a little longer than 4, and joint 5 

 a little longer than 3 ; joints 3 to 5 each with a very large sensoriuni ; on 

 joint 3 it extends fully one-third the length of the joint along the ventral 

 side, in joints 4 and 5 the sensoria extend fully one-half the length of 

 the joints; there are almost no hairs except for a cluster of four or five 

 at the tip of the last segment. The antennal characters alone easily 

 separate this species from all others mentioned in this paper. The legs 

 are as distinctive as the antennae, being much stouter than those of any 

 other species I have studied (PI. XI, fig. B). 



The wax glands that are so conspicuous in cleared specimens of other 

 species of Chermcs are absent or faintly distinguished in the winged 

 females of this species. The galls of this species are very distinct from 

 those of any other Chermes known to me. 



Eggs, young, antl wingless females of this species have not been 

 studied. 



Chermes similis n. sp. (Plate VII. figs. D, D', E, E'.) 



On the visit to Victor, Colorado, August 5, I collected from trees 

 bearing galls of Chermes cooleyi another gall very similar in appear- 

 ance. Winged lice were issuing from them, as they were also from 

 galls of cooleyi. 



Galls. — The galls I collected were rather short and thick for those of 

 cooleyi; they were in every case terminal upon the twigs, and they are 

 produced by the broadening and thickening of the basal portion of the 

 needles, but not at the extreme base as in cooleyi, see PI. VII, figs. D and 

 E. At the point of attachment the needle is about normal in size, but 

 an abrupt thickening and broadening takes place about three or four 

 millimeters from the twig. Each needle is separate from its neighbors, 

 however, and may be removed without the tearing of any tissue except 

 a small spot about one millimeter across at the point of attachment, 

 so that in place of a number of separate chambers, as in the galls of 

 cooleyi, the lice live in open spaces which pass into one another about 

 the bases of the needles. The casual observer would not be likely to 

 notice any difference between this gall and that of Chermes cooleyi. 



The pupse, as in cooleyi, are quite heavily covered with white powder 

 when ready to emerge. 



Apterous females and their egg-clusters were also found in some of the 

 galls, but there was no way to make certain that they were of the 

 same species. 



The looseness of structure in the galls allowed the attacks of Syrphus 

 larvae which were very common. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Winged Female. — Color as in cooleyi; length from 1.3 to 2 millimeters ; 

 wings a little smoky, especially along the veins; venation normal, one 

 transverse vein in hind wing very distinct. Wax glands of abdomen 

 are arranged as follows : The lateral rows with well-developed glands on 

 the first six segments ; the two dorsal rows well developed on segments 

 1 to 6; the middle row on either side begins on segment 3 and 

 ends upon segment 6. The antenna in this species is very similar to 

 that of montanus. Segments 1 and 2 are short and cylindrical, seg- 

 ments 3, 4 and 5 are in the proportion of 22, 26, and 25 respectively, 

 segments 3, 4 and 5 are provided each with a very large sensorium 

 similar to those fovmd upon the antenna of montanus. The transverse 

 striations upon the segments run in nearly straight transverse lines 

 instead of curved lines, as in the case of montanus. This species is 

 easily separated from montanus by the presence of well-developed wax 

 glands upon the abdomen, and the more slender legs. 



I supplied the breeding cage where this louse was emerging with fresh 

 twigs of red fir and blue spruce. The lice began at once to locate 

 upon the needles of the blue spruce and to lay eggs rapidly, but none 

 located upon the needles of the red fir. 



The galls were all taken from blue spruce trees and were considerably 

 less numerous than those of Chermcs cooleyi. Altitude 9,000 feet. 



Chermes coloradensis n. sp. (Plates VIII, IX and X.) 



This species was first noticed by the writer upon the needles of Bull 

 or yellow pine {Pinus scopidorum) growing upon the campus of the 

 Colorado State Agricultural College in the spring of 1897. Its presence 

 has been noticed in some numbers every year since. Some years the 

 needles and the new growths have been fairly whitened with its cottony 

 secretions during late spring and summer (see PI. VIII), while in other 

 years the lice have barely been able to survive in small numbers, as 

 their insect enemies are many and active. The writer figured this 

 louse upon pine needles in Plate I of Fourteenth Annual Repori of the 

 Colo. Agr. Exp. Station, 1901. 



Habitat and Host Plants. — I have found this louse common upon Bull 

 pines occurring upon the foothills of northeastern Colorado and in the 

 city parks of Colorado Springs and Denver. In 1905 I found it com- 

 mon upon this pine in the vicinity of Palmer Lake. During the last 

 week of June,. 1906, Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell sent me infested pine 

 needles from Florissant, Colorado, that were taken at an altitude of 8,000 

 feet, and I have on several occasions taken what seems to be the 

 same species upon Lodge Pole pine {Pinus murrayana) growing upon 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 17 



the oanipiis of the Colorado A<:ri(niltural ("olle<ic at Fort Collins. 

 Dmiiiii Juno of 11H)5 and of 190G 1 also took apterous females with 

 their ofiji-masses from leaves and yoim"; cones of Pinon pine (Pinits 

 cflulis) at Salida. Colorado, at an elevation of O.OOO feet, which seem 

 to be of this species. 



In some instances the lice have been abundant enough to stunt and 

 weaken small trees, but I can hardly consider this insect a serious pest 

 u]i(ni the })ines at the present time, except as it freqeuntly mars the 

 appearance of the foliage of small trees in jiarks and aliout private 

 residences. 



Life History. — There seems to be no small hibernating form of this 

 louse, as of the spruce-infesting species mentioned in this paper. Wing- 

 less lice in various stages of development pass the winter down among 

 the flower buds, between the needles near their bases, or in other 

 protected places. Examples taken February 27 ranged between .4 

 and .8 mm. in length. I have found the hibernating lice in consider- 

 able numbers spending the winter beneath the scales of Chionaspis 

 pinifolicv. This habit of spending the winter in varying stages of 

 development and in more protected places probably accounts for this 

 species getting the start of others in its development in the spring. At 

 Fort Collins, the little white patches of secretion begin to show about 

 the first week of April among the buds and between the needles (see 

 PI. YIII, fig. A), and by about the 10th of the month the first spring 

 eggs are being laid. By the 5th of May it is common to find from 20 

 to 40 eggs to a female and the first young hatching. About one-half 

 of the lice from this brood of eggs become winged, and the other half 

 remain wingless and go on producing other generations of w'ingless 

 lice and eggs until fall, a habit similar to var. coweni on red fir. The 

 winged individuals all seem to be females and all leave the pines, but I 

 have not been able to trace them to their alternate food plant, which I 

 presume to be one of the spruces. The w'inged form begins leaving the 

 trees about May 20, at which time the first brood of wingless females 

 from eggs for the year are beginning to deposit eggs for another genera- 

 tion of apterous individuals, which begin to deposit their eggs about 

 June 10. The wdnged form continues to appear for about ten days. 

 I have seen the apterous females and their eggs in all stages of develop- 

 ment from April 9 to October 22, but the number of generations that the 

 lice pass through in a year I have not determined. 



The number of eggs laid by a single individual is not large, about 30 

 or 40, but the precise number is tlifficult to obtain as the first eggs 

 laid hatch before the last from the same females are deposited. All are 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



attached by threads to the surface upon which the female rests, I have 

 had a female lay 9 eggs in 24 hours. 



The individuals of the first brood that are to become winged secrete 

 a conspicuous fringe of white wax threads about the borders of the 

 head and prothorax in the pupa stage (PI. IX, fig. D), which, with the 

 longer antenna*, readily separate them from the apterous form. 



Apterous Female (Pis. IX and X). — The length of laying individuals 

 varies between .5 and 1.2 mm,; the color is a rusty brown, rather light 

 over the abdomen and darker upon thorax and head where the color 

 may be a slaty brown. The antennae are minute, about .06 mm, long, 

 three-jointed, joints 1 and 2 short and cylindrical and about equal 

 in length, joint 3 distinctly longer than joints 1 or 2. Legs 

 small and weak, femora about twice as long as thick, tibiae equaling 

 femora in length, tarsus two-jointed, the first joint appearing as a 

 wedge-shaped piece wnth the broad end below ; three clear spots upon 

 either side of the head in the position for compound eyes which may 

 function as ocelli. The ivax glands (PI. IX, figs. A. B, C) upon the 

 dorsum of the adult seem quite constant and are arranged about as 

 follows : Upon the head and prothorax, which are so united as to appear 

 as one piece, there are, upon either side of the median line, a longi- 

 tudinal row of four glands and outside of these another row of three, 

 and still outside of these, and located near the posterior lateral angles of 

 the prothorax, are three more small gland areas. The mesothorax has 

 one transverse row of from eight to ten of these glands ; the metathorax 

 and first abdominal segment each have a transverse row of eight, but 

 those upon the abdominal segments are small over the middle dorsal 

 portion and may be largely missing; the second abdominal segment 

 lacks two or four of the middle glands, leaving a row of four or six, and 

 segments 3 and 4 usually have but four glands each, one upon 

 the lateral margin and one near it a little mesad, and the glands upon 

 the lateral margins are continued upon two or three succeeding seg- 

 ments. Upon the ventral surface there is a small gland near the base 

 ■of each antenna and one (which may be separated into two parts) in 

 front of each coxa. The marginal gland patches show upon the 

 ventral as well as upon the dorsal surface, and in some specimens small 

 glands may be detected upon the abdominal segments just inside the 

 spiracles (PL IX, fig. B). 



The eggs are light yellow in color and are entirely hidden from view 

 by the long wax threads secreted chiefly from the head and thorax of 

 the female; they vary little from .32 mm. long by .17 mm, in width, 

 and each egg is anchored from one end by a short thread. As the eggs 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



advance in ajjc they become darker in color and exliibit two dark eye- 

 spots of the developing embryo. 



Pupa (PI. IX, fig. D). — Length varying but little from 1 mm. Color 

 of abdomen a light rusty brown, head and thorax l)lackish, wing pads 

 and legs dusky brown. As the time for moulting approaches a heavy 

 fringe of short stout wax threads or scales develop about the margins of 

 the head and prothorax and along the median dorsal line of the cephalo- 

 thoracic plate, and about six small glands on either side of the cephalo- 

 thoracic region push out long slender dividing threads of the same 

 material. Near the time for moulting the body becomes covered with 

 a white powder and the wax glands posterior to the prothorax are 

 indicated by little w'hite spots of secretion, but no threads are devel- 

 oped. The lateral rows of glands may be traced upon the abdomen 

 to about the sixth segment, while the middle rows upon the dorsum 

 usuall)^ end upon the second or third segment. 



Winged Female (PI. X, figs. A and B). — Color a rusty brown through- 

 out just after shedding the pupal skin, but the head and thorax soon 

 become nearly black in color. A measurement of thirteen examples 

 gave lengths varying between .85 and 1.15 mm., the variation being 

 due chiefly to the different lengths of the abdomen, as in some it was 

 fully extended and in others the terminal segments were contracted. 

 The wings are a little smoky in appearance, due to a great number of 

 curved black dashes that are rather closely set over the entire surface. 

 The wings vary little in length, the anterior pair measuring but little 

 either side of 1.5 mm.; venation normal for this genus, the subcostal 

 nerve strong and, with its large lanceolate stigma, smoky brown in 

 color. There are two simple transverse nervures and the stigmal 

 nerve is long and nearly straight, ending in the center of the apex of 

 the wing. 



The posterior wings are lanceolate in form, a little more than one- 

 half the length of the front wings (ratio 1 to 1.7), and have two or three 

 chitinous hooks on the costal margin. The transverse nerve is wanting 

 (see PI. X, fig. A). 



Antenna dusky brown, five-jointed and .26 mm. in length; the 

 terminal joint is slightly the longest (.067 mm.), joints 3 and 4 

 subequal (.06 mm.), the first and second joints short and cjdindrical 

 and of about the same diameter as the others; joints 3, 4 and 

 5 fusiform and imbricated; the distal ends of 3 and 4 trun- 

 cated, but the fifth joint tapering gradually to the apex. Joints 3, 

 4 and 5 have each a large oval sensorium on the ventral side. 

 There are about five hairs at the apex of the terminal segment and a 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



very few scattering ones on the other joints. Ocelli three in number,, 

 one just above each compound eye, and one median in position upon 

 the front above the insertion of the antennae. 



Legs dusky brown, tarsi two-jointed, the basal joint very short, 

 tibise with prominent sucker at distal end, the use of which is readily 

 seen by allowing one of the winged lice to walk over a glass slip under 

 a microscope. 



The ivax glands are fewer in number over the head and thorax than 

 in the apterous form; on the anterior margin are two that occupy 

 nearly the whole distance from eye to eye, and there are two similar 

 patches on the hind margin; there is also a long narrow patch upon 

 either side along the hind margin, and in front of either of these is 

 another very small patch. On the mesothorax occur the usual two 

 patches near the median line next to the scutum, and upon the meta- 

 thorax two large patches in line with the two inner rows upon the 

 abdomen. Over the abdomen there are three longitudinal rows upon 

 either side extending over about six segments. The patches are largest 

 in the marginal and the middle rows, and the latter sometimes coalesce 

 on the proximal segments. For arrangement of the glands see Plate X, 

 fig. A. 



Young Louse. — When first hatched the young are pale yellow in 

 color and about one-third millimeter in length. The eyes are dark, 

 the antenna 'three- jointed and about two-sevenths the length of the 

 body, the third joint about one-third longer than joints 1 and 2 

 together, and the first two joints are subequal in length. Each tarsus 

 has two glandular hairs. The young of this species can hardly be 

 distinguished from the young of cooleyi shown at Plate III, fig. E. 

 Chermes pinicorticis Fitch. 



I have found this species abundant upon a few trees of Pinus syl- 

 vestris in City Park, Denver, but have seen it nowhere else in Colorado. 

 The cottony covered apterous females were numerous enough upon the 

 smaller limbs of the trees to give them a distinctly whitened mouldy 

 appearance. An excellent paper upon this species, containing a 

 bibliography by Mr. E. L. Storment, was published in the Appendix 

 to the Twentieth Report of the State Entomologist of Illinois. 



Natural Enemies. — Most of the common plant louse enemies attack 

 genus Chermes, but I have never found one of these lice attacked by 

 internal parasites. Chrysopa species seem to attack them very little, 

 but Syrphus and Coccinellid larva? are great destroyers of these lice 

 when exposed upon the surface of plants, the cottony secretion being 

 apparently no hindrance. I have never found Chermes cooleyi dis- 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



turbccl witliiu the gall chambers, but Syrphus larva? at least attack 

 Chcrmes similis and Chermes montanus before they escape from then- 

 galls. The most destructive enemies of the Chermes that infest red 

 fir and pine in the neighborhood of Fort Collins is the 3'ello\v and 

 black lady-beetle, Hamionia picta, shown in Plate XI, figs. D, E. F. 



I wish especially to express my obligations to Miss Miriam A. Palmer 

 for her accurate and painstaking work in the preparation of the pen 

 drawings illustrating this paper. 



If in any case the measurements as given in the plates do not full}'^ 

 correspond with measurements as given in the text, the latter is to be 

 -taken as correct. 



Explanation of Plates I-XI. 



Plate I. — Chermes coole>/i, new species. — A, twig of blue spruce showing three 

 egg masses, natural size ; B and C, egg masses with waxy secretion removed, 

 X 8 times; D, two galls on a twig cut to show interior cavities, X 3- 

 (Photos by author.) 



Plate II. — Chermes cooleyi, new species. — A, two full-grown galls, natural size; 

 B, needles from iuil-grown galls showing enlarged bases; C, winged 

 female, beneath and at right of D winged female, ovipositing upon leaves 

 of red fir; D, an egg mass with female removed; E, gall cut to show that 

 each gall chamber has a complete wall shutting it off from all other 

 chambers. Figures of Uce much enlarged. (Photos bj- author.) 



Plate III. — Chermes cooleyi, new species. — A, hibernating stem-mother in winter, 

 X 85 times ; B and C, adult stem-mothers, dorsal and ventral views show- 

 ing wax glands, etc., X 6.5 diameters; D, eggs attached by threads, X 20 

 diameters; E, young from first brood of eggs, X 12.5 diameters; F, antenna 

 of adult, X 240 diameters; G, leg of adult, X 120 diameters; H, normal 

 leaf, and I, leaves from gall, all enlarged three times. (Miriam A. Palmer, 

 artist.) 



Plate IV. — Chermes cooleyi, new species. — A, winged female, X 26 diameters, 

 showing wax glands of dorsal surface; B, the same with wings closed 

 lading eggs, X 20 diameters; C, antenna of same, X 200 diameters; D, 

 egg mass of same, X 30 diameters. (Miriam A. Palmer, artist.) 



Plate V. — Chermes cooleyi var. coiceni, new variety. — A and A, hibernating 

 stem-mothers beginning to grow in spring, X 20 diameters; B, sprig 

 of red fir showing wiiite egg masses, slightly reduced; C, sprig of red fir 

 showing curled leaves of new growth wiiere young lice are locating, 

 natural size; D, egg clusters of preceding, X 15 diameters. (Photos by 

 author.) 



Plate VI. — Cherines cooleyi var. coweni, new variety. — A, apterous cottony 

 covered female and her hil^ernating young, the last of June, X S diam- 

 eters; A', hibernating young lacking dorsal wax threads, X 50 diam- 

 eters; B and C, dorsal "and ventral views of adult hibernating female 

 showing wax glands, etc., X 45 diameters; D, leg X 60 diameters; E, 

 antenna, X 240 diameters; F, pupa, X 40 diameters. (Miriam A. 

 Palmer, artist.) 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Plate VII. — Chermes cooleyi var. coiceni, new varietj*. — A, winged female, X 40 

 diameters; B, antenna of same, X 240 diameters; C, gall oi Chermes 

 montanus, n. sp., X 2 diameters. 

 Chermes similis, new species. — D and D\ E and E', two views of two leaves 

 from a gall of this species, the former from near the base and the latter 

 from near the tip, sho-v\ang the difference in their development; X 2 times. 

 (Miriam A. Palmer, artist.) 



Plate VIII. — Chermes coloradensis , new species. — A, lice between the needles 

 during winter and early spring; B, attacking the new growth a little later; 

 C and D, cottony masses covering the \vingless females and their eggs, 

 taken during June. A, B and C enlarged 3/2, D 4 times. (Photos by 

 author.) 



Plate IX. — Chermes coloradensis, new species. — A and B, apterous females taken 

 during May, sho-^ving dorsal and ventral surfaces with arrangement of 

 glands; C, dorsal surface of wingless female taken October 22; D, pupa 

 taken June 22; e, anterior leg of A, X 120; f, antenna of the same, X 200. 

 A and B are enlarged 50 times, C 90 times, and D 40 times. (Miriam A. 

 Palmer, artist.) 



Plate X. — Chermes coloradensis, new species. — A, winged female showing wax 

 glands, etc., enlarged 50 times; B, antenna of preceding, X 200 times; 

 C, half-grown apterous female taken October 22, showing long curved 

 pencils of secretion and drop of excretion, X 40 times. (Miriam A. 

 Palmer, artist.) 



Plate XI. — A, antenna of Chermes montanus, new species, X 200 diameters; B, 

 fore leg of C. montanus, X 50 diameters; C, leg of C. cooleyi, X 50 

 diameters; D, E, and F, larva, pupa and adult of Harmonia picta, 

 much enlarged. (Miriam A. Palmer, artist.) 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



February 5. 



Mr. George Vaux, Jr.. in the Chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The death of Alexander J. Cassatt, a member, December 28, 1906, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled 

 "Chermes of Colorado Conifers," by C. P. Gillette, had been pre- 

 sented for publication (January 28). 



Mr. Howard W, DuBois made a communication on hydraulic 

 mining in British Columbia. (No abstract.) 



February 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The Publication Committee reportetl that papers under the follow- 

 ing titles had been presented for publication : — 



' ' Notes on Orthoptera from Southern Arizona, with Descriptions of 

 New Species," b}^ James A. G. Relm (February 11). 



"The Morphology of Dinophilus Conklini n. sp.," by James A. 

 Nelson, Ph.D. (February 15). 



Edwin G. Conklix, Ph.D., made a communication on the embry- 

 ology of Fulgur, embodying a study of the influence of yolk on the 

 development of the egg. The paper will be published later. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [i'^b., 



NOTES ON ORTHOPTERA FROM SOUTHERN ARIZONA, WITH DESCRIPTIONS 



OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



To better present the results of the study of a considerable amount 

 of material from southern Arizona, it has appeared advisable to divide 

 this paper into three parts, each of which treats of a different locality 

 or set of localities. 



These three are: first, Cochise County localities; second, Pima 

 County localities; third, Phoenix, Maricopa County. 



The total number of specimens treated in the three sections is 842, 

 the species numbering 116, of which 11 are new, 7 are new records for 

 the United States and 19 are here credited to Arizona for the first time. 



I. Cochise County. 



The specimens on which the following study is based are chiefly con- 

 tained in four collections made during the year 1905 by as many field 

 collectors. The two largest and in many respects the most important 

 ones were made in Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, one in August by 

 Dr. Henry Skinner and now forming part of the Academy collection, 

 the other made in September and October by Mr. C. R. Biederman 

 and now being the property of Mr. Morgan Hebard, of Chestnut Hill, 

 Philadelphia. The third collection was made in the same range of 

 mountains as the two mentioned above, but at Palmerlee, and was due 

 to the work of Mr. Charles Schaeffer, of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts 

 and Sciences, to whose collection this series belongs. The fourth lot 

 was in some respects the most interesting as far as range extension 

 of species is concerned, and was made at San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 

 feet elevation, by Prof. F. H. Snow, of the University of Kansas, to 

 the collection of which institution the specimens belong. 



A number of specimens from Douglas have been examined, and a 

 few labelled simply "Huachuca Mts." are also mentioned herein. 



The number of species here treated is 90, of which 8 are new, 5 pre- 

 viously known forms are here recorded from the United States for the 

 first, and 16 are recorded the first time from Arizona. The number of 

 specimens examined was 526, of which 407 belonged to the Acrididse. 



The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard, Mr. Schaeffer and Prof. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Snow for the opportunity to examine the material from the collection.^ 

 mentioned above. 



FORFICULID^. 



SPONGIPHORA Serville. 

 Spongiphora apioidentata Caudell. 



Huachuca Mountains, August 22 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



This is the species recorded from Florence, Pinal Co., Arizona, as 

 Labia 7ntiancholica,^ and two d"' and one 9 from Riverside, Riverside 

 Co., California, have also been seen. Of the ten specimens here 

 examined but two, the Huachuca specimen and one from Florence, 

 have the yellowish spot on the exposed portion of the wings strongly 

 marked. 



APTERYGIDA Westwood. 

 Apterygida linearis (Esch.)- 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



BLATTID^. 

 ISCHNOPTERA Burmeister. 

 Isohnoptera uhleriana Saussure. 



Palmerlee (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



This specimen agrees very well with Saussure and Zehntner's descrip- 

 tion of the female of this species, but it is clearly separable from Tem- 

 nopteryx virginica Brunner, which has been considered the female of 

 this species. The tegmina are longer and rounded as in the female of 

 Ischnoptera pennsylvanica , the latter being Phyllodromia borealis of 

 authors, and not truncate as in " Temnopteryz virginica." In general 

 the specimen in hand resembles what I have considered the female of 

 couloniana, but is smaller, with a comparatively greater space between 

 the eyes, and with the supra-anal plate of a different shape, being more 

 transverse and less produced. This specimen is clearly what Saussure 

 and Zehntner called the female of uhleriana, and this seems to raise a 

 ciuestion as to whether Ischnoptera uhleriana and unicolor might not be 

 separable in the female sex, with very similar males. Male individuals 

 of uhleriana have been recorded by Caudell from the Huachuca 

 Mountains and the Patagonia and Santa Rita IMountains, south- 

 eastern Arizona. 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 562. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



BLATTELLA Caudell. 

 Blattella dilatata Saussure- 



Palmerlee (Schaeffer), 1 9 . Huachiica Mountains (Schaeffer)^ 

 July 8,16". 



The female specimen agrees very well with the description of this 

 species, which has been recorded only from Orizaba, Mexico. The 

 male, which has never been described, resembles Blattella adspersicol- 

 lis, having the slight maculations of the pronotum very similar, but is 

 slenderer with the pronotum more trigonal, the margins of the same 

 more deflected and the tegmina shorter and broader. The measure- 

 ments of the pair are as follows : 



& 9 



Length of body, 12. mm. 13.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.5 " 3.9 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, 4.6 " 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 14 " 8.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 4 " 3.8 " 



In the female specimen the tegmina do not reach to the apex of the 

 abdomen, which they exceeded in the type, but the form of supra- 

 anal plate and other characters are very similar to those mentioned by 

 Saussure. 



MANTID^. 



YERSINIA Saussure. 

 Yersinia solitaria Scudder- 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 2 6^. Sep- 

 tember and October (Beiderman), 3 ? . 



All of these specimens are larger than a female from Gallinas Canj'on, 

 New Mexico, and no traces of organs of flight are present. A very 

 curious feature about this species is the distinct proximal inflation of 

 the caudal femora, probably a sign of considerable saltatorial ability. 



LITANEUTRIA Saussure. 

 Litanentria skinneri n. sp. 



Types: c^ and 9 ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., 

 Arizona. August, 1905 (H. Skinner). [A. N. S. Phila.] 



Differing from the known members of the genus in having the teg- 

 mina and wings of the male short as in the known females of the genus. 



Size about the average for the genus. Head distinctly trigonal when 

 viewed cephalad, dorsal outhne straight in the male, slightly arcuate in 

 the female ; facial scutellum transverse, slightly arched in the male, oblong 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



27 



in the female; eyes moderately prominent, slightly elevated above the 

 dorsal outline of the head in the 



male, in a general way continu- \ / 



ing the dorsal arciiation in the \ / 



female; antennie short, hardly 

 exceeding the head and prono- 

 tiim in the female. Pronotum 

 with the greatest width con- 

 tained about two and a fourth 

 times in the length, the dilation 

 considerable, the cephalic section 

 of the pronotum hardly con- 

 stricted and evenly rounded, the 

 caudal section considerably but 

 not greatly constricted, caudal 

 margin arcuate; median carina 

 distinct on the shaft of the pro- 

 notum, represented by a slight 

 longitudinal sulcus on the ceph- 

 alic section; lateral margins 

 practically unarmed in the male, 

 crenulato-dentate in the female. 

 Tegmina very slightly longer 

 than the pronotum in both sexes, 

 elongate-ovate in shape, stigma 

 present at about a third the dis- 

 tance from the apical margin, 

 the apex rotundato-truncate, 

 veins distinct. Wings slightly 

 projecting beyond the apices of 

 the tegmina. Abdomen with a 

 distinct longitudinal carina ex- 

 tending the whole length and 

 more distinct in the female than 

 in the male ; supra-anal plate of 

 the male with the apex subtrun- 

 cate and the width of the same 

 about equal to the length, sub- 

 genital plate with two very short apical styles, cerci exceeding the 

 supra-anal plate and reaching the tip of the subgenital; supra-anal 

 plate of the female similar to that of the male in shape but more pro- 



Fig. 1. — Litancuiria skinneri n. sp. Dorsal 

 view of male type. (X 4.) 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



duced, the subgenital plate with the apical cleft not quite reaching to 

 the middle of the plate, cerci as long as the supra-anal plate. Cephalic 

 coxa3 slightly shorter than the pronotum in both sexes ; femora about 

 equal to the pronotum in length, particularly robust in the female, 

 caudal margin with five, cephalic with ten to eleven spines in both 

 sexes, largest discoidal spine rather heavy; cephalic tibiae not quite 

 two-thirds the length of the femora, margins with nine to ten spines; 

 tarsi with the proximal joint about equal to the tibia in length. 

 Median and caudal limbs rather slender. 



General color of the male buff with a wash of clay color on the 

 abdomen and the head with russet; of the female clove brown, the 

 median carina of the pronotum and maculations and imperfect annula- 

 tions on the limbs pale ecru drab. Tegmina in both sexes with their 

 ventral surface near the distal margin with a transverse blackish 

 maculation. Face with an obscure transverse blackish median bar 

 in the female. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 22 mm. 26.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 6.5" 



Greatest width of pronotum, 2.2" 3.2" 



Length of tegmen, 5.5 " 7 



Length of cephalic femur, 4.5 " 6 



In addition to the types a paratypic series of one male, three females 

 and one immature individual have also been examined. The second 

 male agrees fully with the type in the shape and structure of the 

 tegmina, and the females differ only in the depth of the general colora- 

 tion. 



I take pleasure in dedicating this species to its collector, whose 

 kindly advice and sympathetic interest has been of the greatest assist- 

 ance to the author. 



STAGMOMANTIS Saussure. 

 Stagmomantis limbata (Hahn). 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 2 d", 1 9 . 

 Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 cJ^, 9 9 , 

 3 immature individuals. September and October, 1905 (Biederman), 

 5c?, 1 ?. 



These specimens are typical with the exception of the female from 

 San Bernardino Ranch, which has the general appearance, size and 

 form of pronotum of limbata, but has the costal area of the tegmen 




1907.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 2!) 



very narrcnv. coni})arativoly narrower even than in Carolina. This 

 iiidiviihial is so clearly typical of linihaia in every respect, except the 

 will til and form of the costal area, the only thing to consider it is an 

 abnormality of this species. The width of the costal area is less than 

 a fifth that of the tegmen. Four of the male specimens are in the 

 green phase and five in the brown, one, however, not as completely 

 brown as the others; seven of the females are green and four brown, one 

 of the latter being rather pinkish. 



BACTROMANTIS Scudder. 

 Baotromantis virga Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 9 . 

 Huachuca Mountains (Schaeffer), 1 o^. 



These two specimens measure as follows : 



I.ength of body, 39.2 mm. 49 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 10 " 14 " 



Length of tegmen, 24 " 



l^ength of cephalic femur, 8.5 " 11 '' 



Whether these specimens are identical with the typical Florida virga 

 can only be determined by comparison with authentic or topotypic 

 material, as the original description is very brief and unsatisfactory. 



Caudell has recorded this species from the Huachucas, Nogales and 

 Phoenix, Arizona, as well as Brownsville, Texas. 



PHASMIDuE. 

 PSEUDOSERMYLE Caudell. 

 Pseudosermyle truncata Caudell. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 cJ'. 

 Huachuca Mountains, July (Schaeffer), 1 d^, 1 9 . San Bernardino 

 Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



The Huachuca female agrees very well in size with the measurements 

 of the type, and has the basal abdominal segments with prominent 

 tubercles as in the Bright Angel female mentioned by the describer. 

 The San Bernardino Ranch female is slightly smaller than the other, 

 smoother, and has the carinas and lobes similar in disposition but 

 lower and weaker. The male specimens are larger than those men- 

 tioned in the original description, being approximately 47 and more 

 millimeters in the length of the body. 



When compared with the Mexican P. tridens (Burmeister), the apex 

 of the male abdomen is seen to be distinctly less inflated with a trigonal 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Feb., 



disposition of the cereal teeth instead of a digitiform arrangement as in 

 tridens, in addition to which the size is slightly less. The females of 

 the two species are very similar, but truncata has the limbs longer and 

 the carinee of the abdomen more distinct. 



This species has previously been recorded from Dos Cabezos, Cochise 

 Co. (type locality), and Bright Angel, Coconino Co., Arizona, as well as 

 Los Angeles Co., California. 



DIAPHEROMERA Gray. 

 Diaplieroniera arizonensis Caudell. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 6^. 



This specimen has fully retained its natural coloration, which appears 

 worthy of description. 



General color cadmium yellow, a broad dorsal line covering practic- 

 ally all of the metanotum and all of the mesonotum except the caudal 

 seventh parrot green, the abdomen with the proximal half of all seg- 

 ments except the distal one green, ranging from parrot green on the 

 proximal four to oil green on the others ; terminal segment and cerci 

 tawny ochraceous. Pronotum with a slight median touch of gi-eenish. 

 Head with a slight clay-colored bar caudad of the eyes; antennae 

 vinaceous-rufous. Venter of the mesothorax and metathorax marked 

 with green as on the dorsum, and bearing a fine median longitudinal 

 line of blackish coextensive longitudinally with the green. Limbs 

 with each joint greenish (apple green) proximad, chrome yellow distad, 

 tarsi raw sienna, femoral spines blackish-brown. 



The Mexican D. calcarata is closely related to this form, but differs 

 in the much more swollen median and caudal femora of the male. 



This species has previously been recorded only from the type locality. 

 Hot Springs, Yavapai Co., Arizona. 



PARABACILLUS Caudell. 

 Parabacillus coloradus (Scudder). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 9 . 

 September and October, 1905 (Biederman), 1 c?, 1 ? . Huachuca 

 Mountains (Schaeffer), 1 d'. 



The male has a distinct dorsal longitudinal stripe of brownish on a 

 light yellow ground. 



The Mexican P. palmeri (Caudell) is extremely close to this species. 



AORIDID^. 

 PARATETTIX Bolivar. 

 Paratettix toltecus (Saussure). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 9 . 

 Huachuca Mountains (Schaeffer), 2 cJ^, 2 9 . 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



These specimens full}' agree with New Mexican and Mexican in- 

 dividuals of this species. One female belongs to the long-winged form 

 P. toltecus extensus Morse. 

 Paratettix meiicanus (Saussure). 



Huachuca .Mountains (Schaeffer), 1 cJ*. 



ACHUBTJM Saussure. 

 Aohurum aoridodes (St&l). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 d^. 

 Palmerlee, August (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



After comparison of these specimens with two females of true .4. 

 sumichrasti from Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico, the conclusion is reached 

 that two species are represented. The Arizona specimens differ from 

 the Jalisco individuals in the head being somewhat less elongate, with 

 the eye somewhat shorter and the antennaj distinctly shorter and 

 slenderer. The pronotum also is not so elongate and the lateral lobes 

 are distinctly shorter than in sumichrasti, while the lobes of the genic- 

 ular region of the caudal femora are distinctly less elongr.te and 

 stouter, the length of the principal genicular lobes in sumichrasti being 

 equal to that of the genicular arch, while in the Arizona specimens it is 

 distinctly less. The dorsum of the pronotum is obscurely punctate 

 on the cephalic portion of the prozona and all of the metazona in 

 acridodes and lineato-rugose on the same areas in sumichrasti. On the 

 basis of this character of the pronotum the name acridodes has been 

 applied to this form, as Stal states in his description in the Recensio 

 Orthopteronan,' in comparing with sumichrasti, "pronotoque dorso 

 haud alutaceo-rugoso, sed antice et in lobo postico obsolete punctu- 

 lato." 



Burr in his key to the species of the genus^ appears to have misin- 

 terpreted Stal's remarks on the length of the tegmina, as the former 

 says: "Elytra abdomen haud superantia, " while Stal's words are; 

 "Elytra corpore paullo breviora, femoribus posticis plus duplo lon- 

 giora." It seems evident that Stal intended to mean the entire length 

 of the body rather than the apex of the abdomen, as in the latter case 

 the tegmina would have been very little longer than the caudal 

 femora, considering of course the slender femora present in this genus. 



MERMIRIA Stil. 

 Mermiria bivittata (Serville). 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d^, 1 9 . 

 n, p. 101. 



^ Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 1902, p. 178. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [iFeb.^ 



Rather larger than Nebraska, Colorado, Utah and New Mexico- 

 individuals, but otherwise inseparable. The male has the base color 

 greenish, the female reddish ash. 



Mermiria texana Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 3 9 . 



These specimens are quite typical of this richly colored species which 

 has previously been recorded from Fort Grant, Arizona. 



SYEBULA Stai. 

 Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



San Bernardino Ranch. 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d", 1 9 . 



The female specimen has the pronotum slenderer than is the case in 

 seventeen female specimens from east of the Rocky Mountains. It 

 is possible that the specimens from Arizona represent Stal's S. leucocerca, 

 which is clearly either admirabilis or a closely allied form, but this 

 matter involves the examination of Stal's type. 



Syrbala fuscovittata Thomas. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 10 c^, 

 10 9 , 1 immature individual. September and October, 1905 (Bieder- 

 man), 5 d", 1 ?. Huachuca Mountains, July 13 (Schaeffer), 1 d". 

 Palmerlee, August (Schaeffer), 1 $ . Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d" , 

 1 9 . San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



This very interesting series shows that both sexes exhibit consider- 

 able color variation, in the male being chiefly due to either the greenish 

 or grayish tone of the lighter areas, the general clove brown or blackish 

 color remaining much the same, while in the female variation is due to 

 the presence of two phases with different base colors. The greenish 

 phase has light green by far the predominating color, while the brown 

 phase ranges from warm browns to a decided umber, the dorsum of the 

 tegmina being ashy gray in several individuals. One female specimen 

 has the tegmina and limbs colored as in the green phase, while the 

 pronotum and head show practically no greenish, being nearly as in the 

 brown phase. The single male labelled Huachuca Mountains is ex- 

 tremely interesting as it appears to represent the freshly emerged 

 condition, as the date (July) would also testify. This specimen is 

 somewhat shrivelled, as would be expected in the drying of soft chitin,, 

 and in color is quite striking, the insect being generally pea green, the 

 dorsum of the pronotum buff, the eyes and distal portion of the anten- 

 na walnut brown the tegmina whitish hyaline and the wings distinctly 

 infuscate. 




1907.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



Tliis species has been recorded from several localities in southern 

 Arizona. 



ACROCARA Scuclder. 

 Acrocara maculipenne Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 cJ*. 



This specimen is perfectly typical of this scarce species except that 

 the pale colors are bone white, the darker colors more sombre brown 

 and the proximal portion of the wings, the metanotum and dorsal 

 section of the proximal abdominal segments sevres blue instead of 

 bronze green. Such differences as exist are merely in color shades, 

 the maculation and pattern of lines and bars being the same as described 

 by Scudder. This species has only been recorded from Montelovez, 

 Coahuila, and Villa Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, the above record con- 

 stituting the first from within the limits of the United States. 



ERITETTIX Brunner. 

 Eritettix variabilis Bruner. 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



This specimen has little or no trace of the supplementary carinae on 

 the dorsum of the pronotum, but the antennae are typical of the species. 

 There appears to be no doubt that Eupedetes carinatus Scudder is no 

 other than this species, as a study of the description will show. The 

 character of the antennae does not appear sufficient to form the basis 

 of a new genus, especially in view of the appreciable reduction of the 

 clavation in species hke tricarinatus and navicula. Another point 

 apparently overlooked by Scudder in describing Eupedetes is that 

 Eritettix* was based on but two definitely stated species, variabilis and 

 abortivus, although carinatus, tricarinatus and virgatus were mentioned 

 through the generic description in explanation of variable characters. 

 Of these two definitely placed species variabilis stands first, and is the 

 type also by elimination as abortivus was removed by Scudder to 

 Mesochloa in 1898. It is thus evident that the type of Eritettix is a 

 species with non-clavate antennae. 



This species has previously been recorded only from Silver City, 

 Grant Co., New Mexico, and, as Eupedetes carinatus, from La Tremen- 

 tina, San Miguel Co., New Mexico. 



AMPHITORNUS McNeill. 

 Amphitornus ornatus McNeill. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, 5,500 feet, September, 1905 

 (Biederman), 2 9 . 



* Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XII, p. 56. 

 3 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



One of the specimens examined has the brown shades much darker 

 than the other, and the femoral niaculations more distinct in conse- 

 quence. 



The greater angle of the face appears to be the most satisfactory 

 structural character to separate this species from the allied A. coloradus. 



OPEIA McNeill. 

 Opeia testacea Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 c?, 1 9 . 



This species has previously been recorded from a number of localities 

 in southern California, but not from Arizona. 



OKPHULELLA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulella compta Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 2 6^,3 9 . 



The two males are dull brown in color, one female ochraceous, 

 another very dark brown and the third in the green phase. In measure- 

 ments they agree closely with the types. 



BOOPEDON Thomas. 

 Bobpedon fuscum Bruner. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 c?. 



This specimen is typical of this form, which appears to be doubtfully 

 separable from mibihmi (Say). The only differential character which 

 appears constant when compared with three males of nuhilum from 

 Nebraska and Colorado is the absence of a pale pregenicular annulus 

 on the caudal femora, as the color of the caudal tibiae is uniform 

 blackish in a Pueblo, Colorado male, and the number of spines on the 

 outer tibial margin is twelve in the San Bernardino specimen and 

 ranges from eleven to thirteen in the males of nuhilum. This species 

 was described from Nogales and Phoenix, Arizona, and specimens 

 from Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, Mexico, recorded by the author as 

 B. nuhilum^ should be referred to this form, although one possesses 

 very faint traces of pregenicular annuli. 



SCYLLINA Sai. 

 Soyllina calida (Bruner). 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



This specimen clearly represents the form of the genus found in 

 Morelos, Guerrero, Michoacan and Jalisco, Mexico. It is not^closely 

 related to S. patriw (Scudder), supposed to be from California, which 



^Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phlla.. 1904, p. 519. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPFIl A. 35 



ha? anionir other (liftVrontial cliaractcrs lutcous caudal tibia:> instead of 

 the parti-colored type found in most of the jMexican and Central 

 American members of the genus. This is the first record of the species 

 from north of Guadalajara, and in consequence the first record from 

 within the Uniteil States. 



PSOLOESSA Scudcier. 

 Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder. 



ralmerlce, August 7 (Schaeffer), 2 9. 



These specimens are inseparable from New ^Mexican individuals. 



Psoloessa buddiana Brunei-. 



Carr Canvon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 6^, 

 19. 



This species has been recorded from southern Arizona, Dimmit Co., 

 Texas, and Montelovez, Coahuila, ^Mexico. 



AGENEOTETTIX McNeill. 

 Ageneotettix australis Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 9 . 

 September, 1905 (Biederman), 1 9 . Palmerlee, August (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



The only previous record of this species is that of the types — Phoenix, 

 Arizona. 



AULOCARA Scudder. 

 Aulocara femoratum Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 c\ 

 4 9 . September, 1905 (Biederman), 4 o". 



The lateral lobes of the pronotum are usually less strongly marked 

 in these individuals than in Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming speci- 

 mens. 



This species has been recorded from Phoenix, Arizona, by Bruner. 



Aulocara rufum Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 c^, 1 9 . 



These individuals are inseparable from Colorado and Nebraska speci- 

 mens. The caudal margin of the pronotum is strongly marked with 

 dark maroon and the general color is vinaceous pink. 



This species has been recorded by Scudder and Cockerell from 

 La Cueva, Organ Mountains, southern New Mexico. 



ARPHIA stai. 

 Arphia crassa Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 d^, 4 

 nymphs. September 23 and 27, October 16 and 20, 1905 (Biederman), 



7 cf, 12 9. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d^. 



Aside from the larger general size and broader fuscous arc of the 

 wing this species is very closely allied to ^4. pseiidonietana. A number 

 of specimens have the dorsum of the pronotum clay color, while others 

 are strongly marked with a ' ' pepper and salt" color pattern. 

 Arphia aberrans Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 cj^, 2 9. 

 Palmerlee, July 27, 1905 (Schaeffer), 2 9 . 



These specimens agree very well with the description and measure- 

 ments of this species, the dorsal (caudal) edge of the tegmen, however, 

 being decidedly pale and unicolorous in all but one specimen. The 

 individuals possessing the pale edging show such variation in the 

 shade of the same that it is, no doubt, subject to considerable variation. 

 The contrast between the bluish distal two-thirds of the tibiae and the 

 pale ferruginous tarsi is quite striking. 



ENCOPTOLOPHUS Scudder. 

 Encoptolophus texensis Bruner. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 cJ*. 



Individuals from Florence, Arizona, previously recorded by the 

 author as E. suhgracilis Caudell,^ are referable to this species. 



HIPPISCUS Saussure. 

 Hippisous oorallipes (Haldeman). 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 ? . San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 

 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d". Palmerlee, July 23 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 

 Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 9 . 



Several of these specimens are what is usually called zapotecus, as 

 they possess red internal faces to the caudal femora. However, there 

 appears no reason why this type is not true corallipes as Haldeman's 

 original description says: "Inside of the posterior femora, tibiae and 

 tarsi bright vermilion, a paler tint extending to the outside of the tarsi 

 and half of the tibiae." This is exactly what we find in specimens 

 now referred to zapotecus, and such a description cannot well be con- 

 sidered that of a form with the proximal two-thirds of the internal 

 faces of the caudal femora dark blue. Caudell^ has called attention 

 to this fact and the author wishes to add that representatives of the 

 two forms have been taken at the same locality on the same day, as 

 demonstrated by material in the collection of the Academy. 



i^ * Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 566. 

 ' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 468. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 37 



The female representative from Douglas havS the pronotnm rather 

 slenderer than the other specimens, and in this respect superficially 

 resembles //. pardalimis, from wliich, however, it is quite distinct. 



LEPRUS Saussure. 

 Leprns elephas Saussure. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 26 and October 20, 

 1005 (Biedcrman), 2 d", 1 9 . 



These specimens are imquestionably elephas, but in none are the 

 wings clear yellow on the disk as usual in this species. All have that 

 area bluish or green, in one decidedly blue proximad, in another 

 with all except the proximal section strongly inclined toward yellow. 

 The subequal lateral lobes of the pronotum will readily separate this 

 form from the species with pronounced blue wings, all of the latter type 

 having the ventral width of the lobes greater than the dorsal, owing to 

 the rounded extension of the ventro-caudal margin. 



Leprus glaucipennis Scutlder. 



Carr Canj'on, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 c^, 

 2 9 . September 27 and October 16, 1905 (Biederman), 2 ? . 



This series is inseparable from Californian specimens of this species 

 and also exliibits some variation in the definition of the tegminal bars. 

 The color of the disk of the wings varies slightly, the blue being quite 

 rich and deep in some (two) specimens. This species has been recorded 

 from Hermosillo, Sonora, and is here noted from Arizona for the first 

 time. 



SPHARAGEMON Scudder. 

 Spharagemon collare (Scudder). 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 

 This specimen appears to be perfectly typical of race angustipenne 

 Morse when compared with Salt Lake (topotypic) material. 



TOMONOTUS Saussure. 

 Tomonotus ferruginosus Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 6 9 . Palm- 

 erlee, July (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



These specimens show that glaucous caudal tibiae are also present 

 in the female, the majority of the specimens examined approaching 

 the above color closer than "pale greenish yellow," given for the 

 female in the original description. Several of the individuals examined 

 also exceed the measurements given by Bruner, the maximum in the 

 series being: length of body 38 mm.; length of pronotum 11; antennae 

 12; tegmina 31 ; caudal femora 20. 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Tomonotus aztecus (Saussure). 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d^. 



This specimen is typical of aztecus, as ascertained by comparison 

 with ]\Iexican material, except for the parallel margins of the frontal 

 costa, which is not constricted ventrad of the ocellus as in the majority 

 of the other individuals examined. As several undoubted aztecus have 

 the constriction very slight, I would consider the absence of it as an 

 individual peculiarity. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca 

 September 22 and 27, 



MESTOBREGMA Scudder. 

 Mestobregma rubripeune (Bruner). 



Palmerlee, August 7, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 

 Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 7 9 , 4 c? 

 1905 (Biederman), 2 ? . 



The coloration of the disk of the wing in this species is yellow as well 

 as red, but three of the above series being colored with the latter. 



CONOZOA Saussure. 

 Conozoa carinata n. sp. 



Types: c? and ? ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., 

 Arizona. August (c5^) and October 20 ( 9 ), 1905. Male collected by 

 Skinner in Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., female collected by Biederman 

 in Hebard collection. 



Fig. 2. — Conozoa carinata n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 4.) 



Allied to C. hehrensi, sidcifrons and acuminata, differing from the 

 first two in the more elevated median carina of the pronotum, the more 




1907.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



compressed pronotum and the color of the caudal tiljise. Of these two 

 forms it is closely related to sulcifrons on account of the slender build 

 of that species. From ociwiinata it differs in the more elevated pro- 

 notal carina and the color of the caudal tibite. 



Size small (d^) or medium (?); distinctly compressed, moderately 

 slender. Head deep, greatest width ventrad; occiput well rounded 

 and distinctly elevated above the general level of the disk of the pro- 

 notum, interocular space in the male narrower than the width of the 

 eye. in the female very slightly exceeding the width of the eye; fasti- 

 gium deeply excavate in the male, considerably excavate in the female, 

 median carina subobsolete in both sexes, lateral carinse well elevated, 

 the narrowed cephalic section of the fastigium deeply depressed; 

 lateral foveolse trigonal, moderately impressed; frontal costa slightly 

 constricted dorsad and immediately ventrad of the ocellus, regularly 

 expanding toward the clypeus, deeply sulcate throughout the length 

 except for a small dorsal section which is shallowlj' so; eyes ovoid, 

 flattened cephalad, moderately prominent in the male, little so in the 

 female, in length slightly exceeding (female) or about equalling (male) 

 the infraocular sulcus; antennae distinctly exceeding the head and 

 pronotum in length in both sexes. Pronotum distinct!}'' flattened, disk 

 with the median carina distinct, moderately high, well divided by the 

 principal transverse sulcus, the division of the prozonal section being 

 merel}'' an indention and not a complete deep incision as is the pro- 

 metazonal se])aration;* prozona contained about one and one-half 

 times in the length of the metazona, 

 cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, concave 

 laterad, caudal margin slightly acute- 

 angulate in the male, rectangulate in the 

 female; lateral angles distinctly marked, 

 not continuous, carinate in the immediate 



vicinity of the principal sulcus; lateral ^. „ /> ■ , 



. . J ^ rig. 3. — Conozoa carinata n. SY). 



lobes distinctly deeper than long, %-cntral Wing of male type, (x 2.) 



margin oblique, the ventro-caudal angle 



produced into an acute process; surface of the dorsum with a 



number of low but distinct asperities in the male and with 



weak longitudinal strigce in the female. Interspace between the 



mesosternal lobes very strongly transverse in both sexes. Tegmina 



very considerably exceeding the tips of the abdomen and caudal 



' In the male type the carina of the prozona is without the cephalic (prozonal) 

 indention, a condition found to be approached in tliree of the series examined 

 and which appears to he without taxonomic value. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



femora; costal margin with a distinct arciiation in the distal third, 

 apex narrowly and very obliquely truncate, sutural margin nearly 

 straight; intercalary vein strong, median in position for the greater part 

 of its length but approaching the median vein distad. Wings ample 

 but rather narrow, the greatest width contained nearly twice in the 

 length; apex rather narrowly rounded. Caudal femora very slightly 

 exceeding the apex of the abdomen in the male, in the female falling 

 very little short of the same.^ in form moderately robust; caudal tibiae 

 with nine spines on the external margins. 



General color wood brown in the male, mars brown in the female, in 

 both sexes blotched and marked with clove brown or blackish. Head 

 dull in the female, the markings obscure and chiefly consisting of 

 postocular and arcuate occipital bars, the facial carinse being regularly 

 beaded and the plain surfaces punctate with the darker colors, eyes 

 russet, antennae wood brown with alternating segments generally 

 marked with bistre; head of the male nearly completely washed wdth 

 ecru drab, the dorsum more sprinkled with darker than the other sur- 

 faces, three occipital bars as w^ell as the postocular bars being developed, 

 while the pattern of the facial carinae approaches that of the female, eyes 

 as in the female and with a distinct dark continuation of the post- 

 ocular bar passing through them, antennae similar to those parts in 

 the female but the paler parts are inclined toward ecru drab. 

 Pronotum W'ith the dorsum of the general color, the median carina, 

 asperities and beading of the caudal margin of the darker color; 

 lateral lobes dark dorsad, pale ventrad, the two shades marbled 

 mesad and the margins beaded. Tegmina with a solid median and 

 proximal blotch on the costal area, while a third distal spot is faintly 

 indicated, intervals between the spots very light, sutural margin 

 with the venation infuscate, distal third of the discoidal field hj^aline 

 except for the finely lined veins. Wings with the fuscous band 

 placed very slightly distad of the middle and considerably narrowed 

 cephalad, of greatest width at the point where it touches the periphery 

 of the wing, here about one-fifth the length of the wing, and continued 

 very little toward the internal margin of the wing, spur distinct, thick, 

 extending slightly more than half way to the base of the wing; color of 

 the disk pale sulphur yellow in the male, very weak primrose yellow in 

 the female, apical portion hyaline except for the infuscation of a few 

 veins near the immediate apex. Abdomen and ventral surface sulphur 



* In this sex the abdomen is shghtly distended from the normal and deduction 

 has been made for this extension. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. 41 



yellow. Cei3halic and median limbs of the general colors, imperfectly 

 annulate and sprinkled the darker on the lighter, the cephalic limbs in 

 the male cloudcil with ecru drab. Caudal femora with the genicular 

 region blackish, a distinct pregenicular annulus of pale wood brown 

 present, the lateral face with three oblique fasciae of the darker color, 

 the distal of which is the only one which clouds the ventral face to any 

 great ex'tent, in the male the lighter areas are almost bluish white; 

 caudal tibite naples j^ellow with the proximal portion clouded and the 

 genicular section and the tips of the spines blackish. 



Measurements. 



d 9 



Length of body, 17.8 mm. 30.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.2 " 6.4 " 



Length of tegmen 18.5 " 25.7 " 



Greatest width of tegmen 3.5 " 4.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 10.2 " 14.5 " 



A series of four males and three females have been examined in addi- 

 tion to the types, one from Palmerlee (Schaeffer; September 5), the 

 others from Carr Canyon (Biederman; September 22, 24, October 8 and 

 28, 1905). The Palmerlee male is lighter in color than the four Carr 

 Canyon male specimens available; this not only being true of the 

 brown shades but of the disk of the wings as well, those parts being of 

 the same shade as in the female. One of the female paratypes is very 

 similar to the type, another is slightly paler and the third decidedly 

 paler with the color contrasts much reduced and in some cases absent. 

 The size appears to vary little, and in structure the chief variation 

 worthy of note is the degree of "blocking" of the dorsal portion of the 

 frontal costa. The fuscous band of the wing is carried nearer to the 

 internal margin of the wing in some specimens than in others. 



Trimerotropis fascicula McNeill. 



Carr Canyon. Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 4 c?. 

 Palmerlee (Schaeffer), August 7, 1905, 1 c?. 



These specimens agree very well with McNeill's description, except 

 that they are slightly larger with distinctly longer tegmina, a feature 

 of variation well exhibited by series of the closely related T. bnineri^ 

 This form is extremely close to brimeri, appearing somewhat slenderer 

 and with a narrower fastigium and wider tegminal bars. 

 Trimerotropis alliciens Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 cJ*, 1 

 9 . September 24 and 28, October 8, 1905 (Biederman), 1 d,3 9 . 

 Palmerlee, August 7, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



In several of these specimens the elj'tral bands are more distinct than 

 in others. This species is clearly a member of the citrina group. 



Trimerotropis latioincta Saussure. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 c? ; 

 October 8 and 20, 1905 (Biederman), 3 cJ* , 2 9 . Palmerlee, September 

 (Schaeffer), 1 cJ*. Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d"'. 



These specimens are true laticincta, although the validity of this as 

 distinct from latifasciata appears rather doubtful. 

 Trimerotropis magnifica n. sp. 



Type: c? ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., Arizona. 

 August, 1905 (Henry Skinner). [A. N. S. Phila.] 



This very large and striking new species is allied to T. tolteca and 

 fistrinaria Saussure, but differs from both in the very much greater 

 size, and from tolteca in the presence of a hyaline distal section on the 

 wings, as well as from pistrinaria in the practical absence of the usual 

 ulnar spur on the wing. 



Size very large (for the genus); form moderately robust. Head 

 with the occiput rounded and slightly elevated above the level of the 

 disk of the pronotum, interspace between the eyes as broad as the 

 greatest width of the disk of the fastigium; fastigium considerably 



Fig. 4. — Trmierotropis magnifica n. sp. Lateral \iew of type. (X 1^.) 



declivent, the slope of the same being a regular continuation of the arch 

 of the occiput, lateral carinae of the fastigium parallel caudad, regularly 

 approaching one another cephalad, median carina faintly indicated 

 caudad; lateral foveolse undefined, no ventral bounding ridge in the 

 usual position; frontal costa considerably constricted dorsad, broader 

 and subequal for a distance dorsad and ventrad of the ocellus, on the 




1907.] XATURAL SCIKNCKS OF PIIILADELI'IIlA. 43 



ventral portion of the face the costal carinae expand in an undulating 

 fashion, sulcation distinct but not very deep, in fact shallow in the con- 

 stricted dorsal portion; eyes not prominent, somewhat shorter than the 

 infraocular sulcus; antenna) heavy, in length exceeding that of the 

 iicad antl pronotum combined by that of the head alone. Pronotum 

 \\ith the disk but very slightly tectate, prozona contained about one 

 and three-fourths times in the metazona; cephalic margin very slightly 

 arcuate, caudal margin rectangulate with the margins slightly undulate; 

 median carina very faintly indicated on the prozona, distinct but very 

 fine on the metazona; lateral angles faintly tuberculate on the prozona, 

 rounded shoulders on the metazona; lateral lobes of the pronotum with 

 the depth slightly exceeding the dorsal length, caudal margin descend- 

 ing with a slight cephalad trend, ventral margin irregularly rounded. 

 Interspace between the mesosternal lobes distinctly but not strongly 

 transverse; interspace between the metasternal lobes slightly trans- 

 verse. Tegmina four and a half times the length of the pronotum, 

 exceeding the apices of the caudal femora and the abdomen by the 

 pronotal length, the greatest width contained about four and a half 

 times in the length ; costal margin with the distal third regularly arcuate, 

 apex obliquely truncate; intercalary vein closer to the median than to 

 the ulnar vein throughout its length. Wings ample, rather broad, the 

 greatest width contained about one and three-fourths times in the 

 length; apex obliquely truncate, axillary field with the margin dis- 

 tinct arcuate. Abdomen with the subgenital plate rather broad ; cerci 

 simple, straight, substyliform, blunt. Cephalic and median limbs 

 rather slender; caudal femora robust, not strongly but regularly in- 

 flated, the ventral carina distinctly elevated, length about two and 

 ■one-half times that of the pronotum; caudal tibise with nine spines on 

 the lateral margins. 



General color pale ochraceous-buff overlaid with bistre. Head pale 

 ventrad and on the face, dark dorsad, genoe lightly mottled; eyes burnt 

 uml)er; antennas, except for the paler two proximal joints, clove brown. 

 Pronotum nearly uniform bistre. Tegmina with solid median and 

 proximal dark transverse bars/** the latter confluent with the base of 

 the tegmen and both extending solidly across the same," a premedian 

 bar is present but not as regular as the others, the pale interspaces 

 between the three bands being sharply defined and distinctly but not 

 greatly narrower than the average of the darker bars; apical fourth 



'" These bars are darker and nearly blackish on the costal field. 

 " The median is a little broken on the anal field. 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



changing from subhyaline to hyaline with about a half dozen sub- 

 quadrate blotches of the darker color. Wings with the band clove 

 brown in color, crossing the wing immediately distad of the middle,, 

 extending in a complete arc from the costal to very near to the internal 

 margin, regularly narrowing in width from the axillary field caudad, 



the width on the axillary field 

 being about two-sevenths 

 the length of the tegmen, 

 spurs hardly indicated ; disk 

 pale sulphur yellow; apical 

 area hyaline except for 

 several blotches of dark 

 color, no suffusion however 

 being present. Abdomen 

 dull naples yellow. Caudal 

 femora of the lighter general 

 color inclined to vinaceous- 

 pink on the ventral portion of the lateral face, dorsal and bounding 

 carinae of the paginae sparsely beaded, face of the paginae suffused with 

 the dark color, broad pregenicular annulus of the pale color laterad ;: 

 genicular regions mingled drab and bistre, internal and ventral face of 

 the femora blackish except for the pregenicular annulus and a proximal 

 portion, both of which are Chinese orange ; caudal tibiae orange vermilion 

 the genicular section and tips of the spines black; caudal tarsi buffy 

 ventrad washed with orange vermilion dorsad. 



Fig. 5. — Trimerotropis magnifica n. sp. 

 Wing of type. (X U.) 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 38.5 mm. 



Length of antenna, 19 " 



Length of pronotum, 9 " 



Length of tegmen, 39.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 2L5" 



The type is the only specimen of this handsome species seen by the 

 author. 



Trimerotropis melanoptera McNeill. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 ? . 



This specimen is quite peculiar in that the proximal light area of 

 the wings is not yellow but creamy white. The width of the fuscous 

 wing band is about half the total length of the wing, and the internal 

 faces of the caudal femora have a single pregenicular orange red band. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



Triraerotropis vinoulata Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d^, 1 9 . 

 Benson, July (Schaeffer), 1 9 . Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 6^, 

 2 9. CaiT Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 6". 

 September 23 and 27, October 8 and 20 (Biederman), 15d^, 21 9 . 



Several specimens of this common and widely distributed species 

 from Grand Canyon of the Colorado (Skinner, July 11) are also in 

 hand. 



Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 6 d^, 6 9 . 

 September 24, 1905 (Biederman), 6 (d, 4 9 . Palmerlee, September 

 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



Scudder's T. cijanea^- appears to be a synonym of this species. 



HADROTETTIX Scudder. 

 Hadrotettix trifasciatus (Say). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 2 d, 3 9. 

 September 23 (Biederman), 1 d, 2 9 . Palmerlee, July 31 (Schaeffer), 



1 d. 



TREPIDULUS Mc'Neill. 



Trepidulas melleolus (Scudder). 



1902. Conozon vielleola Scudder, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 34, pi. 

 II, fig. 2. [La Cueva, Organ Mountains, New Mexico.] 



1905. Mestobregma gracilipes Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 

 471, fig. 5. [-\ogales and Huachuca Mountains, Arizona.] 



1906. 'frepididus gracilipes Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 185. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 d. 



There is no doubt in the author's mind that Conozoa melleola is the 

 species later described by Caudell as Meslohregma gracilipes. A com- 

 parison of the descriptions shows the identity of the two species. 



HELIASTUS Saussure. 

 Heliastus benjamini Caudell. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 4 (d, 2 9 . 

 September 22 and 23, October 20 and 24 (Biederman), 3 d", 8 9 . 

 Palmerlee, August 7 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



This series shows that in general color some specimens are decidedly 

 grayish, while others are warm brown, the tegminal bars varying little 

 in intensity. In some female individuals the metanotum is slightly 

 more tumid than in others. 



" Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 36. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Fel:)., 



Heliastus aridus (Bnmer). 



Can- Canyon, Hiiachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 9 . Palm- 

 erlee, August (Schaeffer), 1 d^, 1 ?. San Bernardino Ranch,'! 3,750 

 feet, August (F. H. Snow), 1 c?. 



The Carr Canyon specimen is grayish, the Palmerlee individuals 

 reddish, 



BRACHYSTOLA Scudder. 

 Brachystola intermedia Bruner. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 3 

 nymphs. September 23 and 24, 1905 (Biederman), 5 o', 3 9. San 

 Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 nymph. 



This species, recently descril^ed from Sonora(?) and Mazatlan, 

 Mexico, was considered by the describer to possibly reach "south- 

 western Arizona in the vicinity of the Huachuca ^Mountains," an 

 opinion which the present material well sustains. In size the adults 

 in this series are fairly uniform, only one male l^eing slightly smaller than 

 the others, while the coloration is distinctly more uniform than usual 

 in series of this genus. As the male sex was not in the possession of the 

 describer, the measurements of an average male may be of inteiest: 



Length of body, 41 mm. 



Length of pronotum 11.5 " 



Caudal width of dorsum of pronotum, 7.7 " 



Length of tegmen, 7.8 " 



Length of caudal femur, 25.5 " 



PHRYNOTETTIX Glover. 

 Phrynotettix magnus (Thomas)." 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 7 6^, 5 9 . 

 September 24 and 27 and October 8 (Biederman), 9 cJ*, 2 9 . Palmer- 

 lee, August (Schaeffer), 1 d"', 1 9 . San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet 

 (F. H. Snow),l (^,19. 



This series exhibits considerable variation in size in both sexes, and 

 also some difference in the length of the metanotum and the character 

 of the caudal angle of the same. In color numerous variations are 

 observed, hardly two specimens appearing exactly the same; variation 

 in base color, washes, pronotal margining and maculations, as well as 



" By the acquisition of new material and the re-examination of old the author 

 has been compelled to modify his opinion expressed in 1902 {Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1902, pp. 595-597) regarding the synonymy of species of this genus. 

 Thomas's magnus is distinct from tshivavensis, as is also Bruner's robustus. 

 The specimens recorded from El Paso, Texas, Alamogordo, Otero Co., and Lake 

 Valley, Sierra Co., New Mexico, are of the latter species. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIE.VCES OF PIIILADKLPIIIA. 47 



femoral bars ami fine abdominal maculations, all combining to give 

 numerous color schemes of browns and grays. A few specimens are 

 reddish and others rather blackish. 



Schistocerca vaga (ScuddcrK 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 cJ^, 4 9 , 1 

 nymph. October (Biederman), 4 c?, 7 9. Palmerlee, August 

 (Schaeffer), 1 d". 



As is usual in this species a great amount of individual color varia- 

 tion is present in the above series. In some specimens the pale dorsal 

 line is almost obsolete, in one completely lacking, in others, particularly 

 males, strongly marked. The tegminal maculations are of variable 

 intensity, in two specimens being extremely weak, while the dark 

 femoral bars and pale ventral section of the lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum are subject to equal variations, but as a rule the femoral bars 

 are distinct in the individuals with a well contrasted color pattern. 

 Schistocerca venusta Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August (Skinner), 6 9,1 

 nymph. September and October (Biederman), 4 cJ*, 7 9 . Huachuca 

 Mountains, July (Schaeffer), 1 cJ*. 



The above series contains specimens extremely close to S. shoshone, 

 and the author inclines strongly toward the belief expressed by Mr. 

 Caudell that venusta is probably a form of shoshone}* Both sexes of 

 this form vary considerably in size, and in some individuals the meta- 

 zona is distinctly bullate dorsad instead of nearly plane as in the 

 majority. The color of the caudal tibia) varies from glaucous and 

 purplish pink to very dull purple. 



CONALCEA Scudder. 

 1S97. Conalccea Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, pp. 9, 23. 

 Type. — C. miguelitana Scudder. 



Conalcaea neomexicana Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 22-24 (Biederman), 

 2cJ^,8 9. ' 



This series is fairly uniform in coloration, such variation as is present 

 being in the shade of browns and yellows which make up the base colors. 

 The postocular bar is more distinctly marked in some specimens than 

 in others, while in some individuals the black lateral bars of the prozona 

 are slightly broken caudad of the yellowish oblique bar. The caudal 

 tibise vary from pinkish red to deep chrome yellow. 



'* Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 476. 




48 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Conaloaea haachuoana n. sp. 



Types: o* and 9 ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., 

 Arizona. September 24, 1905. (Biederman.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to C. miguelitana and C. neomexicana, differing from the former 

 in the form of the cerci and some features of the coloration, and from 

 C. neomexicana in the characters which separate rniguelitana from the 

 same, the form of the cerci, however, being very similar to neomexicana. 



Size slightl}' smaller than C. neomexicana; form siibfusiform, robust; 

 surface rather more glabrous in the male than in the female. Head 

 with the occiput very slightly arched, not elevated above the level of 

 the disk of the pronotum; interspace between the eyes rather narrow, 

 in the male no wider, and in the female but little wider than the 

 proximal antennal joint; fastigium roundly deflected, the greatest 

 width very considerably greater than that of the interspace between 

 the eyes, width of the scutellum of the fastigium very slightly broader 

 than the same, moderately but not greatly excavated; frontal costa 

 rather broad, slightly constricted dorsad, parallel ventrad and fading 

 before reaching the clypeus, dorsal section not sulcate (slightly im- 

 pressed in the male) but deeply punctate, area around the ocellus and 

 for a short distance ventrad broadly and shallowly sulcate; eyes oval 

 with the cephalic border flattened, in length half again as long as the 

 infraocular sulcus in the male, about a c[uarter again as long in the 

 female; antennae moderately depressed proximad, in the male very 



Fijr. 6. — Conalccea huachucaria n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 3.) 



slightly shorter than the head, pronotum, mesonotum and metanotum 

 together, in the female equal to the head, pronotum and mesonotum. 

 Pronotum wdth the disk moderately tectate; cephalic margin sub- 

 truncate, and the caudal margin with a broad triangular emargination 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



in both sexes; median carina distinct but hardly elevated, lateral angles 

 distinct, obtuse, slightly more rounded on the mctazona than on the 

 prozona, the angles regularly expanding caudad throughout their 

 length, the expansion being much more marked in the female than in 

 the male; metazona about half the length of the prozona, the metazona 

 also more closely punctate than the prozona; lateral lobes with the 

 length distinct!}' one and one-half times the depth in the male, less 

 than one and one-half times the depth in the female, 

 cephalic margin very slighth' arcuate, caudal margin 

 with a conca\-e-arcuate cephalic trend, the ventro- 

 caudal angle thick and very slightly recurved, ven- 

 tral margin arcuate with the cephalic half sinuate, 

 sulci well marked on the lateral lobes. Mesonotum Fig. 7. — Conal- 



and metanotum together slightlv shorter than the ccea huachuca- 



- ,. .'" / jian.sp. Dor- 



pronotum in the male, distmctly shorter than the sal view of 



pronotum in the female, l)oth tectate and carinate as ^Pj^ ^^ "^f^f 

 ^ . abdomen. (X 



is the pronotiun. Prosternal spmes erect, thick, apex 3.) 



slightly bkmted ; interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes slightly longer than broad in the male, subquadrate in the 

 female; interspace between the metasternal lobes very narrow 

 in the female, lobes contiguous in the male. Tegmina reaching 

 to the caudal margin of the metanotum, lanceolate, about two 

 and a half times as long as broad in each sex, slightly narrower 

 in the male than in the female; apex rather broadly rounded. 

 Abdomen slightly compressed and with a low median carina ; f urcula 

 developed as veiy broad, short, trigonal plates, no longer than the 

 segment from which they arise; supra-anal plate produced trigonal, 

 apex bluntly rounded, median sulcus narrow and deep in the 

 proximal half; cerci moderately compressed with the proximal half 

 thick and subequal, the distal half falciform, the cephalic margin 

 slightly elevated and arcuate around to the acute apex, the sub- 

 lamellate portion of the distal half curved in toward the median 

 line of the body; subgenital plate subpyramidical, the apex well ele- 

 vated above the margin, the two being comiected by a blunt ridge. 

 Cephalic and median limbs robust in the male, rather weak (for a 

 Melanoplid) in the female; caudal femora regularly tapering, not 

 greatly inflated, the greatest w'idth in the male contained about three 

 and a half times in the length; caudal tibiae with nine spines on the 

 external margin. 



General colors russet and seal brown. liead with the postocular 

 bar not strongly marked ; eyes varying from l)urnt unil)er to ra\\' umber; 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



antennse pale proximad, dark distad. Pronotum with the continua- 

 tion of the postocular bar solid, deep seal brown in the male, slightly 

 weaker in the female, extending across the whole of the lateral lobes 

 and in depth being nearly half that of the same, the ventral line being 

 more definite mesad than cephalad and caudad ; ventral portion of the 

 lateral lobes pale russet. Dorsum of the mesonotum and metanotum 

 similar to the dorsum of the pronotum, metathoracic epimera dorsad 

 to the line of the dorsal margin of the tegmina and the mesothoracic 

 epimera shining seal brown, episterna russet. Tegmina with a dorsal 

 section russet (paler in the male) ; ventral section shining seal brown. 

 Abdomen of the lighter general color with longitudinal series of con- 

 tiguous seal brown blotches on the dorsal section laterad of the median 

 line, w^hich is a very striking pale bar, these blotches varying in inten- 

 sity in the sexes (stronger in the male) and in individuals ; apex of the 

 male abdomen and the ventral surface of the same touched with orange 

 rufous. Cephalic and median limbs brownish touched with olive green ; 

 caudal femora vandyke brown dorsad, the dorsal half of the paginal 

 area blackish brown, ventral half and ventral sulcus cream color 

 washed slightly with greenish, genicular lobes pinkish buff touched with 

 scarlet vermilion; caudal tibiae and tarsi scarlet vermilion, the spines 

 tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 



Cephalic wddth of disk of pronotum, ... 2.7 " 



Caudal width of disk of pronotum, .... 4.2 " 



Length of tegmen, 4.3 



Length of caudal femur, 13 " 



In addition to the types a series of six males and seven females of 

 this species have been examined, all of which except one pair from 

 Palmerlee (in coitu; August 7, 1905; Schaeffer) are paratypic (Septem- 

 ber 23 and 24). In size but little variation is presented, and in color 

 such as exists is chiefly in the depth of the coloration , the two extremes, 

 both females, one with russet predominating and the other with seal 

 brown the prevailing color, can readily be given their proper associa- 

 tion, as the distinctive color pattern is essentially the same. In some 

 specimens there is a tendency to breaking in the pronotal continuation 

 of the postocular bar, but in no case is this as complete and strongly 

 defined as in C. neomexicana. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



MELANOPLUS Stil. 

 Melanoplus lakinus SoiuUlcr. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 22-27, October 8-20 

 (Biederman), 15 d", 13 9. 



These indivitluals would probably be Scudder's .1/. sonorae, as the 

 pronotuni is less expanded caudad than in average Colorado specimens 

 of lakinus, and the lateral faces of the caudal femora are either not at 

 all or but slightly marked -with the usual bars of lakinus. In the 

 author's opinion sonorae is no more than a geographic race of lakinus, 

 and may hardly be of such rank, as Colorado specimens of lakinus vary 

 greatly in size, somewhat in the expansion of the pronotum and 

 occasionally have the lateral face of the caudal femora without dis- 

 tinct markings. The reddish color of the caudal tibise of sonorae, as 

 mentioned in the original description, is possibly due to the t3^pe 

 specimens having been immersed in a liquid preservative, as the 

 individuals in hand all have the tibia glaucous. 

 Melanoplus aridus (Scudder). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 23 and 24, October 

 8 (Biederman), 2 c^, 1 9. Palmerlee, August 7 (Schaeffer), 1 9. 

 Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



From these specimens it is evident that this species varies consider- 

 ably in size, in parts of its range at least, the Cochise County individuals 

 being much larger than representatives from Florence, Ai'izona. These 

 latter are distinctly smaller than the measurements given by Scudder, 

 while a pair from Carr Canyon measure as follows: 



(^ 9 



Length of body, 21.5 mm. 29.5'^ mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 7 " 



Length of tegmen, 4.8 " 5.5 '' 



Length of caudal femur, 12.5 '' 16 " 



Melanoplus desultorius n. sp. 



Types: c and 9 ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co.,, 

 Arizona. September 24, 1905 (Biederman). [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to M. aridus and closely resembling it superficially, but differ- 

 ing in the more sulcate frontal costa, the flattened and moderately 

 expanded cerci and in the interspace between the mesosternal lobes., 

 which is strongly longitudinal in the male, slight!}^ longitudinal in the 

 female. In the shape of the cerci this species approaches M. hum- 

 phreysii, but the caudal margin of the pronotum is as in M. aridus. 



" Abdomen distended bej'ond normal size. 




52 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Size medium; form of medium build. Head with the occiput 

 rounded but hardly elevated above the dorsum of the pronotum, inter- 

 space between the eyes slightly narrower (o^) or slightly broader ( $ ) 

 than the proximal antenna! joint, fastigium distinctlj^ broader than 

 the interocular space, rather deeply (c?) or shallowly ( 9 ) sulcate, the 

 sulcation extending caudad between the eyes ; "frontal costa distinctly 

 (c?) or slightly (9) wider than the interspace between the eyes, 

 impresso-punctate dorsad of the ocellus in the male, punctate in the 

 female, in the male strongly sulcate around and ventrad of the ocellus, 

 in the female moderately sulcate at and for half the distance ventrad 

 of the ocellus, the costal margins slightly constricted dorsad and very 

 slightly approximate ventrad; eye subovate in the male, ovate with 

 the cephalic margin flattened in the female, when viewed from the 

 dorsum the eyes are moderately prominent in the male, very slightly 

 prominent in the female; in length considerably (cJ*) or not greatly ( 9 ) 

 longer than the infraocular portion of the gense; antennse in the male 

 slightly shorter than the head, pronotum and tegmina together, in 

 the female very slightly longer than the head and pronotum together. 

 Pronotum with the disk very gently arched transversely, the lateral 

 angles rounded, the median carina distinct on the cephalic half of the 



Fig. 8. — Melanoplus desultorius ii. sp. Lateral view of male t\'pe. (X 3.) 



prozona and on the metazona, more elevated on the metazona and 

 obsolete on the caudal half of the prozona ; cephalic margin very slightly 

 arcuate, the caudal margin very obtusely angulate; metazona closely 

 punctate, in the female also with very fine transverse strigse, prozona 

 about one and three-eighths times the length of the metazona, prin- 

 cipal transverse sulcus well marked in both sexes, the prozonal sulci 

 breaking the median carina in the male, not dividing the same in the 

 female; lateral lobes half again as long as deep in the male, slightly 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMllLADELIMHA. 53 



shorttM- in tho foinalo, tho lobes moderately tuniid in their cephalic por- 

 tion, particularly of the prozona, the caudal margin descending 

 obliquely cephalail, the ventral margin slightly emarginate cephalad. 

 Prosternal spine thick, somewhat compressed in the male, directed 

 caudad; interspace between the mesosternal lobes half again as long 

 as broad in the male, slightly longer than broad in the female; meta- 

 sternal lobes contiguous in the male, subcontiguous in the female. 

 Tegmina in the male subovate, reaching nearly to the distal margin 

 of the proximal abdominal segment and slightly shorter than the pro- 

 notum; in the female suborbicular, reaching to about the middle of the 

 same segment and distinctly shorter than the pronotum, the apical 

 margin slightly subangulate in the male, broadly subtruncate in the 

 female, the greatest breadth of the tegmina in the male about two- 

 thirtls the length, in the female slightly less than the Jength. Abdomen 

 moderately compressed, the apex in the male slightly expanded and 

 erected but not recurved ; fm-cula developed as short, well separated 

 spines, not longer than the segment from which they arise and slightly 

 diverging distad ; supra-anal plate trigonal, the median sulcus narrow 

 and extending about two-thirds the length of the plate; cerci with the 

 length not more than twice that of the broad base, 

 from which the remainder of the cercus is sharply c— ^~ . 



and regularly contracted to about half the basal 

 wid th , the narrow portion being slightly curved d orsad , . ; '-; / : f 



the apex acute and the ventral margin slightly prox- '^^iS5:l' 



imad of the apex with a blunt angle, in transverse jrj„. g Mdan- 



plane the cerci are curved mesad and then bent sharply opUis desultori- 

 dorsad; subgenital plate slightly produced, moder- la" view "^of 

 ately compressed, the apex slightly rounded ventro- apex of male 

 dorsad. Cephalic and median limbs robust in the abdomen, (x 

 male. Caudal femora well developed but not strongly 

 inflated, in the male vcr}' slightly exceeding the head, pronotum and 

 tegmina in length, in the female distinctly exceeding these; caudal 

 tibife with ten to eleven spines on the lateral margins. 



General color clay color. Head with the vertex and occiput marked 

 with a median longitudinal bar of seal brown, more or less broken into 

 spots; postocular bar blackish-brown; face and genre clouded and 

 washed with drab, rather greenish-oli^'e in the male; e,yes russet; 

 antennae flame-scarlet, a little oljscured distad and less brilliant in 

 general color in the male (nearly vermilion) than in the female. Pro- 

 notum olive dorsad in the male, of the general color with a median 

 wash of prout's brown on the prozona in the female; lateral lobes with 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the dorsal lialf of the prozona shining blackish, a narrow continuation 

 of this bar on the angle of the metazona being dull blackish, ventral 

 portion of the prozonal lobes creamy buff against the blackish changing 

 to the general color along the ventral margin and on the metazona. 

 Tegmina broccoli brown with a strong steel-bluish tinge in the male; 

 the ventral margin in both sexes narrowly marked with blackish and 

 the minute interspaces between the veins showing up darker than the 

 veins themselves ; apical margin faintly ( o^ ) or distinctly (?) margined 

 with buffy. Abdomen with the proximal segments marked with black 

 dorsad, the remaining segments and the ventral surface chiefly maize 

 yellow. Caudal femora with the ventral aspect and the ventral por- 

 tion of the faces yellow, the dorsal section of the lateral face washed 

 with pale olive-green, the dorsal face and the dorsal section of the 

 internal face with a median and premedian bar of raw umber, 

 genicular arches seal brown, a moderately well defined pregenicular 

 annulus yellow, genicular lobes with a black basal spot, the remainder 

 yellowish dorsad, greenish blue vent rad ; caudal femora bottle green, 

 the spines black, pale at their bases. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, . 17.3 mm. 26.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 6.3 " 



Length of teamen, 4.5 " 5 " 



Length of caudal femur, ILT '' 14.2 " 



In addition to the types a series of eleven topotypic specimens have 

 been examined, two males and nine females (date identical with 

 types). From these specimens it is evident that the species varies 

 considerably in size, and apparently in both sexes, although the male 

 material is necessarily not as conclusive as the female. In coloration 

 the variation is chiefiy in the brilliancy of the yellow areas and of the 

 yellow values, the base color varying in the same ratio as the pure 

 yellows. In several specimens the color of the dorsal section of the 

 lateral faces of the caudal femora strongly encroaches on or suffuses 

 the ventral section, and this is apparent!}' irrespective of the strength 

 of the yellow colors. In one female the whole of the lateral lobes 

 except the blackish area is uniform cream-buff. 



Melanoplus flavidus Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 9 . 

 October 8, 16-17, 20, 1905 (Biederman), 4 9 . Palmerlee. August 7, 

 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



These specimens have the coloration much subdued and with gray- 

 hrowns the predominating color value. The Palmerlee specimen is of 

 a warmer brown than the others, and in the Carr Canyon series the 

 yellows usually have a greenish cast. 



Melanoplus regalis (Dodge). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca ]\Iountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 9 . 

 September 23 and 24, October S, 16-17, 1905 (Biederman), 4 d', 14 ? . 

 Palmerlee, June 13, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



A pair of this form was submitted to Prof. Bruner, who was respon- 

 sible for the transference of Dodge's species from /Eoloplus to this 

 genus," and his opinion confirmed the author's suspicion that they 

 represented Dodge's very poorly described species. It belongs to the 

 jemur-rubrum series and must have a very great superficial resemblance 

 to M. sanguineus Bruner,^^ judging from the description of the latter, 

 and in a number of ways also suggests M. corpulentus, which, however, 

 is very different structurally. 



The coloration of the series examined is very interesting and shows 

 considerable variation in the intensity of purplish-reds and greens, 

 which on a yellowish ground and varied with umber markings con- 

 stitute the main color features. In by far the majority of the speci- 

 mens the green is conspicuous. In all the specimens the crimson 

 ventral sulcus of the caudal femora and the glaucous tibise are marked, 

 and very little variation in the color of the same is noticed. 



Melanoplus corpulentus Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 21, 23 and 24, 

 October 8, 16-17, 1905 (Biederman), 9 d", 7 9. Palmerlee, August 7, 

 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 d', 1 9. 



This series varies considerably in size and somewhat in the intensity 

 of pattern and general shade of the coloration; a few individuals have 

 their general color more grayish than the average, others more yellow- 

 ish. The caudal tibise are glaucous in five of the series. The length 

 of the tegmina and wings varies considerably and is more pronounced 

 in the male than in the female. 



Melanoplus thomasi Scudder. 



Douglas, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 d. 



This striking species is here recorded from Arizona for the first, this 



"> In Gillette, Bull. 94, Colo. Agr. Exp. Sta., p. 55. 



" Two specimens from the Garden of the Gods, Colorado, recently recorded 

 by the author (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 406) as sanguineus prove on 

 second examination to be regalis. The superficial resemblance between these 

 two is so great that -n-ithout authentic material the two are liable to be confused. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



being only the fourth record for the species — Sciukler having described 

 it from Lerdo, Durango; Scudder and Cockerell recording it from 

 Tularosa, New Mexico, and the present author examined and recorded 

 seven specimens from the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico. 

 Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 24, October 16-17, 

 1905 (Biederman), 1 d^, 1 ?. San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, 

 August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 &. 



The individual from San Bernardino Ranch belongs to the form 

 volucris, the others being the short-winged type. 



When compared with Nebraska, Colorado and Indiana specimens 

 the males appear to have the dorsal constriction of the frontal costa 

 stronger than the average from those localities; but one Colorado 

 specimen (Greeley, Colorado) differs in that portion being narrower 

 than in the Arizona males. This species has been recorded from 

 Tucson, Pima Co., Arizona. 

 Dactylotum variegatum (Scudder). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 9 . 

 September 23 and 24, 1905 (Biederman), 5 c?, 6 9 . Palmerlee, June 

 23, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 c^. 



The females of this series present considerable variation in size, one 

 particularly being no larger than male individuals, while this one 

 specimen is but little surpassed in size by another of the same sex. 

 There is a very perceptible amount of variation in both sexes in the 

 depth of the bluish pronotal markings. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 Dichopetala brevihastata Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 d^. 



This species is the D. hrevicauda Scudder of 1902, but not of 1900.^* 

 The former records are from southern New Mexico (several localities 

 in the Mesilla Valley) and Mexico. 

 Dichopetala Isevis n. sp. 



Types : ? ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., Arizona. 

 August, 1905 (H. Skinner). [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Allied to D. brevihastata Scudder, but differing in the shorter oviposi- 

 tor^ which is also slightly thicker distad than mesad and proximad, and 

 has the margins unarmed, and also in the smaller general size and 

 shorter, more robust limbs. 



Vide Morse, Psyche, IX, p. 381. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Size small; form very distinctly compressed. Iload with the vertex 

 regularly declivent to the narrow l)ut low fastigium; eyes ovate, small 

 but rather prominent; anteniuo slightly more than twice the length of 

 the body proper, rather thick in the proximal portion. Pronotum 

 with a moderate mesad constriction; in length slightly more than 

 twice that of the head; cephalic margin truncate, caudal margin very 

 faintly obtuse-angulate, lateral lobes shallow, the greatest depth con- 

 tained slightly more tlxan twice in the length. Tegmina very short, 

 the extreme apex alone visible beyond the caudal margin of the pro- 

 notum. Styles very short, thick, conic; ovipositor about equal to the 

 cephalic femur in length, the proximal third nearly subequal in width, 

 from which, however, it gradually enlarges to the distal section, which 

 is distinctly but not greatly broader than the proximal portion; the 

 caudal margin is strongly curved dorsad in the distal portion, the 

 extreme apex, being rounded and nearly dorsad in position, all the 

 margins unarmed; subgenital plate with a small but deeply and 

 strongly rounded apical emargination. Cephalic limbs slender, the 



Fig. 10. — Dichopetala la;vis n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



bullae quite small; median limbs slightly longer than the cephalic. 

 Caudal femora nearly two and one-half times the length of the cephalic 

 femora, well inflated in the proximal half; caudal tibire exceeding the 

 length of the femora 1)V nearlv the dorsal length of the head. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



General color ochraceous-buff. Head with the face overlaid with 

 very pale greenish; palpi oil green; eyes russet; dorsum of the head 

 with a narrow median whitish line extending from the fastigium caudad, 

 enclosed laterad by line borders of pansy purple, a broad bar of which 

 borders dorsad the narrow whitish postocular streak; antennae 

 proximad very pale greenish overlaid with purplish, distad clear oil 

 green. Pronotum with the usual situation of the lateral carinse marked 

 with whitish, as is also the entire cephalic margin and also the other 

 margins of the lateral lobes, caudal margin beaded with small purplish 

 spots. The median fine white line with its purplish borders is also 

 continued on the pronotum and mesonotum, while the mesonotum and 

 metanotum are beaded caudad as on the pronotum, the lateral whitish 

 bars of the pronotum being also continued on these sections. Abdom- 

 inal segments beaded caudad as with the thoracic segments, the 

 whitish lateral lines also extending to the apex of the abdomen, the 

 dorsal area between which is darker than laterad. Ovipositor russet, 

 the immediate apex darker. Femora wood brown mottled with 

 broccoli brown and on the caudal, femora touched with a wash of 

 greenish; caudal femora marked mesad and laterad in the proximal 

 half with a pattern of short oblique brownish lines; tibise green, the 

 cephalic and median pair brownish green proximad, clear dark green 

 distad, the caudal pair dark clear green, spines narrowly tipped with 

 black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 13.5 nim. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 



Length of caudal femur, 17.5 



Length of ovipositor, 7 



The type is unique. 

 Hormilia elegans Scudder. 



Benson, July, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 

 feet, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 ? . 



These specimens belong to the typical color form.^^ CaudelP" has 

 recorded this species from this region and the records now extend from 

 Florence, Arizona, to the Mesilla Valley, New Mexico. 



Hormilia apache n. sp. 



Types: d^ and 9 ; Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, Cochise Co., 

 Arizona, August, 1905 (H. Skinner). [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



" Vide Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, pp. 572, 573. 

 =*« Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 477. 




190^ 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



Allied to //. abbrcvidta Brunor from Cucrnavaca, JMorclos,-^ but 

 dift'ering in the much longer tegmina and wings, the latter extending 

 beyond the former, the well-defined humeral sinus of the lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum and the more arcuate ventral margin of the same 

 parts, the more recurved tips of the male cerci and the truncate sub- 

 genital plate of the same sex (this has distinct lateral angles and a 

 very well-developed median protuberance in abbreviata). The form of 

 the pronotum is very similar to that of abbreviata, and in this respect 

 these species stand apart in the genus from the others which possess 

 sharp lateral angles. 



Size medium; form moderately compressed and elongate. Head 

 with the occiput moderately globose, not elevated above the pronotum 

 and regularly declivent to the narrow, compressed fastigium, which is 

 truncate distad, subequal in the distal half and with distinct lateral 



Fig. 11. — HormiUa apache n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 3.) 



carina, contiguous to the trigonal facial fastigium; eyes rather small, 

 elliptical and prominent for their size; antennae with the proximal joint 

 subtrigonal in section, in length slightly more than twice that of the 

 tegmina. Pronotum with the dorsum deplanate, lateral angles sharp 



*' Topotj'pic specimen examined. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



and subrectangulate, the width of the disk regularly expanding caudad, 

 with, however, a very slight expansion at the cephalic margin; cephalic 

 margin gently emarginate, caudal margin moderately arcuate with a 

 very slight median emargination ; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, 

 the humeral sinus distinct and angulate, but not wide or deep, the 

 margin from the ventro-cephalad angle to the humeral sinus being rather 

 regularly arcuate. Tegmina about four and a half times as long as the 

 pronotum, in greatest width about equal to the length of the latter; 

 costal margin very gently arcuate proximad, tapering distad; apex 

 rounded, sutural margin straight; tympanum of male hardly wider 

 than the disk of the pronotum caudad, veins not strong; radial vein 

 furcate, the ramus reaching the sutural margin immediately proximad 

 of the apex. Cephalic and median limbs slender, the cephalic femora 

 more robust than the median, the genicular margin of the four cephalic 

 femora provided dorsad with a trigonal dentiform process; cephalic 

 tibiae with the auditory foramina cochate, median tibiag slightly ex- 

 panded proximad. Caudal femora slightly longer (?) or slightly 

 shorter (c5^) than the tegmina, the proximal half moderately bullate, 

 this condition being almost entirely dorsad, genicular lobes with peg- 

 like processes; caudal tibiae slightly longer than 

 the femora. Distal dorsal segment of male with 

 the median section with a rounded slightly depressed 

 area; supra-anal plate small, trigonal; cerci rather 

 short, slightly curved, distal section somewdiat 



T^- 10*^7/ •7- flattened, the apex acute and sharply bent dorsad; 

 Fig. 12. — Hormiha ' ^ . 



apac/ie n.sp. Dor- subgenital plate short, the apical margin truncate 



sal view of apex ^^^^ laterad with two short stvle-like processes. 



01 male abdo- " ^ 



men. (X 8). Ovipositor longer than the pronotum, broad, very 



sharply bent at the base, very slightly tapering 

 distad, the bent portion of the dorsal margin and the distal third of 

 the ventral margin finely serrate. Subgenital plate acute trigonal. 

 General color chromium green, paler ventrad and on the limbs; an- 

 tennae with about seven irregularly disposed dark brown annuli on the 

 distal third; pronotum faintly lined with yellowish on the angles; eyes 

 mottled drab and ecru drab. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 



Length of pronotum, 



Caudal width of disk of pronotum, . 



Length of tegmen, 



Length of caudal femur 



Length of ovipositor, 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61 



In addition to the types a male from I'almerlee (Schaeffer) has 

 ■also been examined. 



30, 1905 (C. 



Aretheea sellata n. sp. 



Type: o" ; Palmerlee, Cochise Co., Arizona, July 

 Schaeffer). [Brooklyn Inst. Ai'ts and Sci.] 



Allied to A. constricta Bruner, but differing in the strongly sellate 

 ]5ronotum, the shorter and comparatively broader head, the broader 

 tympanal field with its strongly bisinuate margin, the slightly longer 

 cephalic femora and slightly shorter median femora, and also in the 

 form of the cerci which have a very slightly dorsal curve at the tips. 



Size medium; form very elongate. Head with the mouth cephalad; 

 occiput gently descending to the compressed, slightly elevated and 

 distinctly sulcate fastigium, which, however, is low 

 ventro-cephalad ; facial fastigium trigonal, slightly 

 higher than wide, the borders distinctly marginate; 

 eyes elliptical, quite prominent when viewed dorsad ; 

 antennse elongate, rather heavy in structure for 

 this type of Orthopteron. Pronotum distinctly 

 sellate, the caudal portion (metazona) forming a 

 considerable angle with the prozona, the cephalic 

 margin of which is also slightly elevated when 

 viewed laterad ; when viewed dorsad the cephalic 

 margin is very broadly triangular emarginate, 

 caudal margin semi-oval in outline; prozona much 

 more constricted than the metazona, the prin- 

 cipal sulcus distinct on the lateral lobes; 

 humeral sinus moderately deep, placed well dorsad on the caudo- 

 lateral margins, which are oblique ventrad, the true ventral margin 

 being somewhat sinuate, a moderately distinct arcuate transverse 

 depression extends from one humeral sinus to the 

 other, wholly independent of the depression of 

 the principal sulcus. Tegmina about four-fifths 

 the length of the caudal femora, narrow, costal field 

 roundly expanded proximad, the costal margin 

 evenly arcuate distad, the sutural margin straight, 

 the apex closer to the sutural margin than to 

 the costal and narrowly rounded; tympanum of medium size, the 

 sutiu-al margin strongly bisinuate, the proximal lobe slightly acute- 

 angulate with the apex rounded; lateral margins of the tympanum 

 slightly arcuate; radial vein with three rami all of which reach the 

 sutural margin. Wings exceeding the tegmina. when in repose, by 



Fig. 13. — Aretheea 

 sellata n. sp. Dor- 

 sal view of prono- 

 tum and tympa- 

 nal area of male. 

 (X 4.) 



Fig. 14. — Arethoea 

 scllatan.sp. Single 

 male cercus. (X 

 15.) 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.y, 



nearly the length of the median femora. Limbs very slender. Ceph- 

 alic femora slightly more than twice the length of the pronotum, the, 

 tibiae distinctly but not greatly exceeding the femora. Median femora 

 about two-thirds the length of the tegmina, the tibise exceeding the 

 femora by about the same distance as in the cephalic limbs. Caudal 

 femora about three times as long as the head and pronotum together, 

 the inflation about limited to the proximal two-fifths; tibise distinctly 

 exceeding the femora in length, all margins spined, the dorsal more 

 strongly so than the ventral. Abdomen subtectate; terminal dorsal 

 segment truncate; cerci tapering, comparatively stout in the proximal 

 half, the apex sharp and rather strongly curved ; subgenital plate pro- 

 duced, the apex narrowed and arcuate-emarginate, supplied laterad 

 with distinct, rather sharp styliform processes of moderate length. 



General color pale apple green, rather whitish ventrad. Head with 

 the eyes prout's brown; antennae beyond the proximal joint yellowish; 

 narrow postocular stripe Indian purple, flanked ventrad with a green- 

 ish-white line of equal width. Pronotum with the prozona bearing 

 two converging greenish-white lines, between which the disk is punc- 

 tate with purplish, the metazona margined with greenish-white and 

 bordered internally with a purplish line, the white margin very broad 

 on the lateral lobes. Tympanum of the tegmina purplish-brown, the 

 veins yellowish as well as the sinuate margin; sutiu-al margin washed 

 with purplish-brown. Abdomen with an arcuate lateral greenish- 

 white line distinctly margined with purple ventrad, the dorsum of the 

 abdomen uniform punctate with the same color; extreme apex of the 

 cerci blackish. Limbs faintly washed with purplish-red. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 16 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4 '' 



Greatest width of pronotum 3.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 20.5 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 2.8 " 



Greatest width of tympanum, 2.7 " 



Length of wnng beyond closed tegmen, 1L8 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 9.5 " 



Length of median femur, 12.5 



Length of caudal femur, 25 " 



Length of caudal tibia, 27 " 



The type is the only specimen of this interesting species examined by 

 the author. 



The five species of the genus Arethcca which have been examined by 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. QS- 



tlie author may be separated by the following key," which is based 

 in part on that given by Brimner. 



1. — Tegmina and wings distinctly shorter than the body, 



carita Scudder. 



1.1. — Tegmina and wings very much longer than the body. (i-i 



2. — Tympanal field of the male tegmen roundly produced. 



Cephalic and median femora with the dorsal apex dentate. 



3. — Radial vein with three or four rami. Size small, 



gracilipes (Thomas). 

 3.3. — Radial vein with five or six rami. Size large, 



jphalangium (Scudder). 



2.2. — Tympanal field of the male tegmen angularly produced at 



the transverse vein. Cephalic and median femora with 



the dorsal apex obtuse. 



3. — Tympanal field of the male tegmen but little expanded, 



the margin being moderately bisinuate. Pronotum 



moderately sellate. Cerci with the tips strongly 



recurved dorsad, constricta Brunner. 



3.3. — Tympanal field of the male tegmen moderately ex- 

 panded, the margin being strongly bisinuate. Pro- 

 ' notum strongly sellate. Cerci with a very slight 

 dorsal inclination at the tips, . . . sellata Rehn. 



Scudderia mexicana (Saussure). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 27, October 8, 16-17, 

 1905 (Biederman), 2 c?,4 ?. 



The species has previously been recorded from this region by CaudelL 



Scudderia furcifera Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca ^Mountains, August (Skinner), 1 d^, 2 ? . 

 September 24, October 3, 8 and 20, 1905 (Biederman), 3 d^, 6 ? - 

 Palmerlee, July 26, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 ? . 



In the United States, Scudder recorded this species from Prescott, 

 Arizona, and Scudder and Cockerell from the Organ Mountains, New 

 Mexico. 



Microcentrum laurifolium (Linnaeus). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, October 2, 3 and 8, 1905 (Bie- 

 derman), 3 9 . 



One of these specimens belongs to the variety b mentioned by Saus- 

 sure and Zehntner. 



^- "id. brevicauda (Scudder) is not included as it is unkno'ft'n to the author, and 

 its relationship is probably with carita. The same author's .1. consuetipes has 

 not been seen, and from the description would appear to have a unique position on 

 account of its short legs. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Miorocentram retinerve (Burmeister). 



Palmerlee, August (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



This species has been recorded from Nogales, Arizona, by Caudell. 



Conocephalus fuaoostriatus Redtenbacher. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, September 28 or 29, 1905 

 (Biederman), 1 d^. 



This specimen is inseparable from two males of this species from 

 Thomasville, Georgia. This is the first record of the species west of 

 Texas. 



XipMdion fasoiatum (DeGeer). 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 c5^, 1 9 . 



Capnobotes fuliginosus (Thomas). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 d^. 



This specimen is distinctly larger than a male from Jerome, Arizona, 

 fully equalling a female from the latter locality. 

 Eremopedes unioolor Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 5 c?, 

 8 ? . September 21, 24 and 28, 1905 (Biederman), 2 cT, 4 9 . Doug- 

 las, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 9 . 



The Carr Canyon series presents a very considerable amount of 

 individual variation in size. The Douglas female is extremely large^ 

 the caudal femora particularly far exceeding the original measure- 

 ments. However, aside from the very slightly narrower ovipositor, 

 no other characters to separate it are apparent, and as the measure- 

 ments of this specimen may be of interest they are given herewith. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 27.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 8.9 " 



Length of caudal femur, 28. 5 '' 



Length of ovipositor, 20 " 



Stenopelmatus oculatus Scudder. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 9 • 

 Huachuca Mountains, July 23, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 (d. 



While one of these specimens appears to approach californicus in the 

 small size of the apical spine of the internal margin of the caudal femora, 

 yet, in view of the unreliability of spine formulae and proportions in 

 this genus, it appears best to place it where all other characters seem to 

 place it — in Scudder's oculatus. 

 Ceuthophilus paucispinosus Rehn. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 3 c?, 4 

 9. September 22, 23 and 28, October 8, 1905 (Biederman), 4 d". 

 Palmerlee, August, 1905 (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 65 



The-V(Mv iiitiM-cstins:; scries of this species contained in the collec- 

 tions available for study presents several facts in elaboration of the 

 original description of this species, based on a single female from 

 southern Arizona. One is that considerable size variation is present 

 in l)otii sexes. I)ut more i)articularly in the male. Another is that in 

 the male the ventral ridge of the caudal femora is more elevated and 

 distinctly dentato-serrate (often strongly so), while in several of the 

 specimens of the same sex the proximal fourth of the caudal tibiie are 

 strongly valgate. beyond which they are straight. 



Measurements are here given of the maximum specimens of both 



sexes. 



(^ 9 



Length of body, 20 mm. 18.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.5 " 5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 8.5 " 7.8 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17 " 15 



Length of ovipositor, 11.2 " 



GRYLLIDJE. 

 Ellipes minuta (Scudder). 



Douglas, August (F. H. Snow), 1 specimen. 

 Nemobius neomexicanus Scudder. 



Douglas, August (F. H, Snow), 1 9 . 



This species has previously been recorded from Florence, Arizona. 

 Gryllus personatus Uhler. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 cJ^, 

 4 9 . Palmerlee (Schaeffer), 1 9 . San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 

 feet, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), Sd',3 9. 



This series has been compared with a representation from Florence, 

 Flagstaff and Phoenix, Arizona. There is considerable variation in the 

 depth of the fuscous coloration and also in size, the latter being as 

 individual as color variation, the largest male and the smallest females 

 being from the same locality (San Bernardino Ranch). All the speci- 

 mens are of the macropterous type. 



Gryllus armatus Scudder. 



San Bernardino Ranch, 3,750 feet, August, 1905 (F. H. Snow), 1 c?, 

 1 2. 

 This species has also been examined from Florence and Phoenix, 



Arizona. 



Gryllus alogus Rehn. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 2 9 . 

 When compared with the type, from Albuquerque, New Mexico, 

 5 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



these individuals are inseparable although both slightly smaller. An 

 additional female from Carr Canyon is placed under this species with a 

 query, agreeing in spine formulae with integer and pennsylvanicus, but 

 in general appearance and form similar to alogiis. The positive deter- 

 mination of species of this genus will probably be impossible until 

 extensive breeding experiments and careful quantitative studies of our 

 "species" have been made. 



CEcanthus niveus (DeGeer). 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 1 cJ*, 

 2 9 . Palmerlee (Schaeffer), 1 9 . 



OEcanthus nigricornis Walker. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 3 ? . 

 September 30, 1905 (Biederman), 1 ? . Palmerlee (Schaeffer), 2 ? . 



These specimens are inseparable from a Monte Redondo, Costa Rica, 

 female. 



Caudell has recorded this species from the Huachucas. 



(Ecantlius argentinus Saussure. 



Carr Canyon, Huachuca Mountains, August, 1905 (Skinner), 3 c?, 

 2 9. October 16-17, 1905 (Biederman), 1 d". 



These specimens are assigned to this species with some little doubt, 

 as they agree fairly well with the original description of Saussure, but 

 do not tally so closely with the later one given by the same author.'^ 

 The antennal markings are similar to those originally described, but 

 have no supplementary spot or cloud on the first proximal joint as 

 later stated. In other characters these individuals agree very fully 

 with the 1897 description. The remarks made by CaudelP* regarding 

 Oracle and Hot Springs, Arizona specimens referred to this species are 

 substantiated by the material before me. 



II. Pima County. 



The specimens here treated were collected by Prof. F, H. Snow, of 

 the University of Kansas, during the summer of 1906. The localities 

 represented are the Baboquivari ]\Iountains and Tucson. The material 

 from the former locality is of very considerable interest as it has been 

 seldom visited and, as far as the author is aware, this series is the 

 first collection of Orthoptera made in that isolated locality. 



23 Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 254. 

 2* Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V, p. 166. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



67 



Two species previousl}' known only from localities south of the 

 United States are here recorded from north of the boundary line, while 

 two are described as new. 



MANTID^. 

 Stagmomantis graoilipes n. sp. 



Type: o^ ; Baboquivari Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, I'DOe 

 (F. H. Snow). [Coll. University of Kansas.] 



Allied to *S. venusta, heterogcwna, montana and androgyna Saussure 

 and Zehntner and limhata Hahn. From venusta, limhata and andro- 

 gyna it can be immediately separated by the slenderer pronotum and 

 limbs, particularly the cephalic femora; from heterogamia it can be 

 separated by the much greater size, narrower supra-coxal expansion 

 of the pronotum and the comparatively longer limbs ; from montana it 

 differs in the smaller size, except the length of the cephalic femora 

 which is about the same in both forms, in the nar- 

 rower costal margin of the tegmina and in the wings 

 being strongly marked and not vitreous. 



Size medium; form slender. Head broad, the 

 depth but little more than half the width. Prono- 

 tum slender, the greatest wudth contained nearly 

 six times in the length; cephalic margin rounded, 

 the collar with parallel sides, the expansion slight, 

 shaft compressed but slightly expanding caudad, 

 margins of the collar slightly crenulate, shaft dis- 

 tinctly carinate. Tegmina slightly more than twice 

 the length of the pronotum; costal field moderately 

 expanded proximad, not appreciable in the distal 

 third, coriaceous; stigma linear, longitudinal, not 

 sharply marked. Wings not exceeding the tips of 

 the tegmina when in repose. Cephalic limbs quite 

 slender, coxae slightly less than two-thirds the 

 length of the pronotum, distinctly but not strongly 

 spincd on the cephalic margin with two grades of 

 spines, caudal face with the surface rugose owing 

 to the presence of short spiniform tubercles, between which the 

 surface is uneven; cephalic femora very slightly shorter than 

 the pronotal shaft, the principal discoidal spine being situated very 

 near the middle, lateral margins armed with five spines, one of which is 

 small and genicular in position, internal margins armed with fourteen 

 to fifteen spines, one small and genicular and the remainder divided 



Fig. 15. — Stagmo- 

 mantis gracilipes 

 n. sp. Dorsal 

 view of pronotum 

 of tj-pe. (X 3.) 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



into two alternating series, discoidal spines four in number; cephalic 

 tibiae slightly more than half the length of the femora, external margins 

 armed with eight to ten spines which leave un- 

 armed a considerable proximal area, internal mar- 

 gins with a regularly enlarging series of eleven 

 to twelve spines; cephalic tarsi somewhat longer 

 than the tibiae without apical claw, the metatarsi 

 alone but little shorter than the tibise. Median 

 and caudal limbs very slender, the caudal femora 

 about five-sixths the length of the pronotum. 

 General color ochraceous, the head inclined 



J- iQ Staqmo- toward ochraceous-rufous, the ventral surface of 



mantis gracilipes the thorax and abdomen chrome j'ellow, the median 



liinb' of ^^t\i)e^ ^^'^ caudal femora deepening to blackish brown 



(X 2.) proximad. Tegmina brownish hyaline, the costal 



field opac^ue, probably green in life, the costal 



and discoidal fields separated by a wash of russet which fades rapidly 



on the discoidal side. Wings with the costal margin marked with 



russet, the remainder wdth subquadrate patches of seal brown such as 



are frequently found in the genus. 



Measurevients. 



Length of body (approximately-^), 58 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 19.5 



Greatest width of the pronotum, 3.3 " 



Length of tegmen, 40.5 



Width of proximal portion of costal field l.S " 



Length of cephalic femur, 13.1" 



Length of cephalic tibia (exclusive of apical claw), 6.2 



Length of median femur, 13 



Length of cephalic femur, 16.5 



The type is the only specimen of this interesting species which has 

 come to the author's attention. 



Vates paraensis Saussure. 



Babociuivari IMountains, 1 9 . 



This specimen has been compared with an undoubted Guadalajara 

 female of this species and is inseparable from it. In size it is slightly 

 larger, but well within the measurements given by Saussure and Zehnt- 

 ner. The species described by the author as V. townsendi can readily 

 be separated from paraensis by the more compressed pronotal shaft, 



'^ The distal section of the abdomen is missing. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



the more expanded and snblaniellate supra-coxal expansions of the 

 same, the more strongly lobed limbs and abdomen and the distinctly 

 emarginate marginal field of the tegmina. The Arizona specimens 

 of Vatcs recorded by Caudell as T''. townsendi?^ may probably be this 

 species and not townsendi, which has stronger pronotal expansions 

 in the female than we would suppose were possessed by the female of 

 the species figured. 



The only previous records of this species north of Panama were 

 from Guadalajara, Jalisco, and Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico. 



ACRIDID^. 



Telmatettix aztecus (Saussure). 



Tucson, 1 9 . Baboquivari Mountains, 2 cJ*, 3 9 . 



These specimens have been compared with Yautepec, Morelos, and 

 Teocelo, Vera Cruz individuals. 

 Clypeotettix schochii (Bolivar). 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 9 . 



This specimen is inseparable from Morelos and Vera Cruz specimens, 

 and constitutes the first record for the species from the United States. 



Paratettix toltecus (Saussure). 



Tucson, 3 fo . 



Specimens from Arizona, New Mexico, Mexico, Nicaragua and Costa 

 Rica have been used for comparison. 

 Achurum acridodes (StM).-^ 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 c?. 



Mermiria neomezicana (Thomas). 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 c^. 



This is the first Arizona record of the species, which ranges south as 

 far as the State of Durango. 

 Cordillacris pima n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Baboquivari Mountains, Pima Co., Arizona. 1906. (F. H. 

 Snow). [Coll. Univ. of Kansas.] 



In many respects this species appears to connect the two types 

 previously known in the genus, i.e., occipitalis and crenulata. From 

 the former type {occipitalis, cinerea and afjinis) it can be separated by 

 the more strongly bowed lateral carinse of the pronotum, narrower 

 tegmina and the distinctly slenderer caudal limbs. From crenulata 

 the new form can readily be distinguished by the larger size, the 

 slenderer and less inflated head, more retreating face, narrower teg- 

 mina and longer limbs. 



2" Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XIII, p. 83, PI. Ill, figs. 1, 2. 



'' For the definition of acridodes see antea, p. 31. .. . _ 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Size medium; form quite elongate. Head broad caudad, regularly 

 narrowed cephalad ; occiput and vertex distinctly ascending above the 

 level of the pronotum, the interspace between the eyes no narrower 



Fig. 17. — CordiUacris pima n. sp. Lateral view of U^pe. (X 3.) 



than the fastigium, the latter obtuse-angulate with the margins sharp 

 and bordered immediately caudad by a very narrow depressed space ; 

 angle of the fastigium viewed laterad very slightly acute-angulate, 

 the immediate angle rounded, face very considerably retreating; 

 frontal costa very narrow dorsad, regularly expanding ventrad, the 

 portion dorsad of the ocellus decidedly sulcate, the portion ventrad of 

 the ocellus slightly sulcate, the margins somewhat cariniform; eyes 

 slightly longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennse very considerably 

 longer than the head and pronotum, the proximal portion depressed 

 and subensiform, the extreme apex also being de- 

 pressed. Pronotum short, the cephalic margin of 

 the disk sinuate with a slight median emargina- 

 tion, caudal margin rotund ato-truncate; median 

 carina slightly elevated on the metazona; lateral 

 carinte slightly constricted caudad on the prozona, 

 strongly flaring on the metazona; prozona slightly 

 longer than the metazona; lateral lobes slightly 

 longer than deep. Tegmina distinctly surpassing 

 the apex of the abdomen, narrow, the apex 

 rounded. Cephalic and median limbs slender; 

 caudal femora quite slender, the greatest width 

 contained about five and a half times in the 

 length, caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the 

 femora, armed on the lateral margin with ten spines. 

 General colors chalk white and mummy brown, the maculations of 



Fig. 18— CordiUa- 

 cris pima n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of 

 head and prono- 

 tum. (X 3.) 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



the darker color (listril)\itotl in tlic manner usual in this genus. Head 

 with a distinct median bar of brown extending from the fastigium to 

 the caudal section of the occiput where it is broken up, a narrow 

 metiian line in this maculation and lateral margins of the same are 

 bordered with buff; postocular bar distinct, gense white, face pale buff; 

 antennre buffy proximad becoming glaucous green, with a faint touch 

 of buff}' on the tips. Pronotum with the dorsum chiefly buffy, the 

 lateral carinse buff, margined ventrad with a narrow line of black and 

 the broad continuation of the postocular bar; the buff area on the disk 

 of the prozona bears mesad an elongate trigonal faintly whitish area, 

 while the lateral portions of the metazonal disk are distinctly velvety 

 black, ventral portion of the lateral lobes white. Tegmina with the 

 white discoidal maculations crudely hemispherical in shape and four in 

 number, costal area also white, region of the anal vein buffy. Cephalic 

 and median limbs whitish finely punctate with brown; caudal femora 

 with the dorsal section of the lateral face purplish brown, the dorsal 

 face with a small median and an elongate pregenicular blotch of the 

 same color; caudal tibise lavender, very pale proximad, the spines pale 

 buff tipped with black. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 19.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3 " 



Length of tegraen, 15.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 13.5 " 



The type is the only specimen seen. 



Scyllina calida (Bruner). 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 $ . 



This is the second record for the species from the LTnited States. 



Psoloessa maculipennis Scudder. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 4 ? . 



One of these specimens is suffused with blackish dorsad, while 

 another, which otherwise is of the normal type of coloration, has the 

 femoral markings very small. 



Psoloessa texana Scudder. 



Baboquivari ^Mountains, 2 6^, 2 ?. 



One of the male specimens of this species has a prominent longi- 

 tudinal dorsal line of ochraceous flanked laterad by purplish brown, 

 the latter color continuous from the vertex to the tegmina, which it 

 almost entirelv suffuses. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Psoloessa buddiana Bruner. 



Baboquivari IMoimtains, 2 ? . 



Ageneotettix australis Bruner. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 4 d^, 1 ? . 



This species is now known from Maricopa, Cochise and Pima Counties. 



Aulocara rufum Scudder. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 cJ*. 



This is the second record of the species from Arizona; the nearest 

 points from which the species has previously been recorded being San 

 Bernardino Ranch, Cochise Co., Arizona, and La Cueva, Organ Moun- 

 tains, New Mexico. 

 Arphia aberrans Bruner. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 ? , 



This species is only known from the Mexican border of Arizona, i.e., 

 Nogales and the Huachuca Mountains. 



Enooptolophus tezensis Bruner. 



Tucson, 1 d', 2 ? . 

 Laotista oslari Caudell. 



Tucson, 1 9 . 



The previously known localities for this species are Nogales „Arizona, 

 and Albuquerque, New Mexico. 

 Tomonotus ferruginosus Bruner. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 2 cJ*, 1 9 . 



One of the male individuals possesses a very peculiar coloration. 

 Tomonotus aztecus (Saussure). 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 ? . 



This individual agrees with a specimen mentioned by the author on a 

 preceding page^^ in having the frontal costa hardly constricted ventrad 

 of the ocellus. 



Derotmema delicatulum Scudder. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 d^, 1 9 . 



The previous Arizona records of this species are from between Gila 

 Bend and Yuma and Florence. 



Mestobregma rubripenne (Bruner). 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 d^, 1 9 . 



The shorter and more robust caudal femora of this species immedi- 

 ately separates it from M. plattei, its nearest ally. 



'' P. 38. 




r.H)7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Conozoa oarinata Kelm. 



Babo(.}uivari .Mountains, 2 d^, 1 ?. 



These specimens fully agree with the typical series from the Hua- 

 cliuca Mountains, Cochise Co., Arizona. 

 Trimerotropis fasoicula McNeill. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 cJ^. 



In coloration this specimen is slightly paler than Huachuca Moun- 

 tains representatives, with the internal and ventral faces of the caudal 

 femora suffused with the same red color as the tibiae, while the dorsum 

 of the abdomen has a wash of the same color. The general size is 

 slightly larger than Huachuca specimens and the proportionate length 

 of the tegmina is about the same, much longer proportionately than 

 in the type individuals. 

 Heliastus aridas (Bruner). 



Tucson, 1 9 . 



Heliastus benjamini Caudell. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 d^, 1 ? . 



The previous localities for this species are Nogales and the Huachuca 

 Mountains, Arizona. The male is more ferruginous than any other 

 specimen examined by the author. 

 Schistooeroa vaga (Scudder). 



Tucson, 1 d'. 



This individual is small and rather paler than the majority of sjDeci- 

 mens of this species. The amount of color variation presented by 

 individuals of this form is very considerable, the extremes having 

 quite different appearances but being connected in any series by 

 members of intermediate specimens. 

 Conalcaea huachucana Rehn. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 9 . 



This specimen is inseparable from the female type, and is the first 

 record of the species beyond the limits of the Huachuca Mountains. 



Hesperotettix festivus Scudder. 



Tucson, 1 9 . 



This individual has the pregenicular annuli very distinct, but shows 

 no traces of the blackish pencilling of the pronotal sulci seen in H. 

 viridis. 

 Melanoplus brownii Caudell. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 9 . 



This specimen appears to belong to this species which was described 

 from near Yuma, Arizona. Coloration counts for very little in M. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^^ 



flavidus and its allies, and little stress should be laid on its determina- 

 tive value. In measurements this individual differs from the original 

 only in that the caudal femora are one millimeter shorter than the 

 minimum there given. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 Arethaea constricta Bruner. 



Tucson, 1 ? , 



This sjiecimen is inseparable from Texas females of this species, and 

 constitutes the first record from west of the Organ Mountains, southern 

 New Mexico. 

 Scudderia mexicana (Saussure). 



Baboquivari ^lountains, 1 d^. 

 Eremopedes unicolor Scudder. 



Baboquivari Mountains, 1 cJ*. 



Huachuca Mountains specimens are usually smaller than this in- 

 dividual, which is very pale and buffy-brown in color. 

 Ateloplus notatus Scudder. 



Tucson, 1 9 . Baboquivari Mountains, 1 immature 9 . 



These representatives have been compared with a female from 

 Florence, Arizona, and show no differences except a more blackish 

 coloration. 



Gryllus armatus Scudder. 

 Tucson, 19. 



Miogryllus lineatus (Scudder). 



Tucson, 1 9 . 



This record is of very considerable interest, as no mature specimens 

 of this species have been recorded since the types were collected along 

 the Colorado River between Mohave City and the Virgin River. 



(Eoanthus californicus Saussure? 



Baboquivari Mountains, 2 9 . 



These specimens are assigned here with some little doubt, as they 

 have distinct blackish lines on the two proximal antennal joints. 

 However, in the shape of the femora, the color of the head and the 

 antennae, aside from the markings, they agree with males of this species, 

 while the pronotum has the sulci disposed in a similar fashion and 

 differs only in the lack of caudal expansion, a character which appears 

 to be sexual in this genus, due to the greater expanse of the male 

 tegmina. Some little affinity is shown with the recently described 

 CE. rehnii Baker, but the specimens are clearly distinct from that 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 75 



species, while the heavier caudal femora immediately separate it from 

 argentinus. 



III. Phcenix, Maricopa County. 



The specimens considered in this portion of the paper were collected 

 by Dr. R. E. Kunz^, and are now in the Hebard Collection. 



A few specimens from Prescott have also been included, but where no 

 locality is mentioned Phoenix is understood. A striking new species 

 of Ceuthophilus is here described. 



BLATTID..5]. 



Blatta orientalis Linnaeus. 



Prescott, July 14, 1904. 1 d", 1 9 . 



Homoeogamia erratioa Kehn. 



September 17 and October 9, 1903; September 14, October 2, 5 and 

 7, 1904. 7 &. 



These specimens represent the pale typical and the slightly infuscate 

 form. 

 Homoeogamia apacha Saussure. 



April 9, 1902; June 7 and 9, 1904. 3 c?. Prescott, July 14 and 18, 

 1904. 3d'. 



The Phoenix specimens represent the typical form of the species, 

 while the three Prescott individuals are of the very strongly infuscate 

 form called infuscata by CaudelP^ on the basis of a Phcenix specimen. 

 The interspaces between the eyes and between the ocelli in these speci- 

 mens and in those of erratica agree in relative proportions with the 

 material previously studied by the author.^" 



MANTID^. 

 Litaneutria minor (Scudder). 



June 16, August 21, September 11, 17 and 24, October 1, 2, 11 and 

 24, December 1, 1904. 5 d", 5 ? . 



Stagmomantis limbata (Hahn). 



September 10, 1901 ; August 21 and September 29, 1904. 2 d', 1 ? . 



One of these males is much smaller than the other. The female is 

 referred here with a little uncertainty, as it is similar to the one from 

 San Bernardino Ranch, Cochise Co., Arizona, mentioned in this 

 paper.^^ The costal field of the tegmina is no wider than in that 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, p. 463. 



'« Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, pp. 181, 187-189; ^n<. News, 1903, p. 327. | 



" Antea, p. 28. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



specimen,, the form is smaller than in the average of Imibata, while 

 the pronotum is distinctly though slightly constricted cephalad of the 

 supra-coxal expansion. The wings are purplish black caudad while 

 the tegmina are green. The left cephalic femur, tibia and tarsus of 

 this specimen have been regenerated ; the femur being slightly smaller 

 than the right but otherwise normal, the tibia is a short rounded joint 

 not a third the femoral length with the margins unarmed, while the 

 tarsus is quite short. 



PHASMID^. 

 Diapheromera arizonenais Caudell. 



September 7, 8 and 15, October 17 and 20, 1904, 21 9 . 



As the female of this species has not been well described, some notes 

 may prove of service. 



Wlien compared with a female of D. femorata from Philadelphia, 

 arizonensis is seen to be somewhat more robust, the head is distinctly 

 broader and the eye larger, while the proximal joint of the antennse 

 is narrower. The median segment is slightly more transveres than in 

 femorata, and the cerci are much shorter and blunter, while the three 

 distal abdominal segments are distinctly shorter and the subgenital 

 opercule is provided with a distinct apical finger-like lobe. Limbs 

 slightly longer than in femorata with the femoral spines distinct. 

 When compared with the closely allied JMexican D. calcarata, the 

 female of arizonensis is seen to be somewhat slenderer, but with a 

 broader head. The structure of the abdominal appendages and the 

 terminal segments is the same as in calcarata, but the. limbs of the latter 

 species are distinctly more robust. 



AORIDID^. 

 Orphulella graminea Bruner. 



September 30, October 4-5. 14 c?, 14 9 . 



These specimens agree with four paratypic specimens, two of each 

 sex, received from Prof. Bruner. In size the majority of the female 

 individuals are somewhat larger than the paratypic specimens, but no 

 larger than the original measurements. In color some are distinctly 

 mummy brown, others vinaceous-cinnamon and russet. The dis- 

 coidal area of the tegmina is quite distinctly marked with quadrate 

 blotches in about half of the specimens. 

 Encoptolophus texensis Bruner. 



September 24. 1 ?. 



This specimen has the head, pronotum, pleura and dorsal aspects of 

 the caudal femora suffused with pale green. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Conozoa behrensi Saussure. 



September IS. 19. 

 Trimerotropis vinculata Scuddcr. 



October 17. 6 6", 12$. 

 Anconia Integra Scudder. 



September 24, October 11-18. 10 9 . 



This series presents all color variations, from the nearly uniform 

 green type to a strongly maculate form with the pronotal markings 

 very decided. 



Sohistocerca vaga (Scudder). 



October 10-16. 4 (5^,5 ?. 



These specimens vary considerably in coloration, several females 

 having the dorsum of the pronotum almost unicolorous, while the 

 variation in the intensity of tegminal maculations is very considerable. 

 Schistocerca shoshone (Thomas). 



September 25 to December 15. 5 c?, 9 ? . 



Considerable variation is exhibited by this series in the coloration of 

 the caudal tibiae, shades ranging from pale purplish pink to decided 

 purplish red being present on those parts. 

 Hesperotettix festivus Scudder. 



October 31, November 1-28, 1903. 4 d", 6 ? . 

 Melanoplus herbaceus Bruner. 



November 24 and 26, 1903. 12 c?, 8 9 . 



These specimens are practically intermediate between true herbaceus 

 and flavescens Scudder, which cannot be considered as other than a 

 western race of herbaceus. In color and genital characters this series 

 is truly intermediate, and in the author's opinion we must use the 

 trinomial M. herbaceus flavescens for Scudder's form. 

 Melanoplus piotus Scudder. 



November 18-28, 1903; October 10, 1904. 10 c?, 10 9 . 



This series is clearly referable to this species which was described 

 from Bradshaw Mountain, Yavapai-Maricopa Cos., Arizona. When 

 compared with the original description, the only difference which ap- 

 pears is that the caudal tibiae are "purplish fuscous" or near it in but 

 one specimen, the others ranging from pale glaucous to rather bright 

 blue. There is a certain amount of variation in the actual presence 

 or the intensity of the yellowish line along the lateral angles of the 

 prozona, and in structure there is an appreciable variation in the 

 width of the interspace between the mesosternal lobes, the latter being 

 subcontiguous in one male individual. 




78 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



November 18-24, 1903. 7 d", 3 9. 



These specimens are quite large when compared with Eastern speci- 

 mens, a fact which is true of Florence, Arizona, individuals. 



Melanoplus differentialis (Thomas). 



September 4, October 16, 1904. 5 6^,1 9. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 Hormilia elegans Scudder. 



September 5-7, 1904. 2 d" , 6 ? . 



Three of the females present the type of coloration which has the 

 dark areas of the tegmina large and deep in color, surrounding and 

 isolating the light greenish portions. In this type the pronotum is 

 richer in color, owing to the more definite whitish margins contrasted 

 with the broad dark area which is placed on the caudal section of the 

 pronotal disk, and also in the patch on the lateral lobes being larger 

 and more conspicuous. One specimen is extremely pale, the dark 

 markings being weak or mere suggestions of color. 

 Microcentrum laurifolium (Linnseus). 



November 24 and 26, December 1, 1903. 1 d", 4 ? . 

 Stenopelmatus oculatus Scudder. 



Prescott, Arizona, July 14, 1904. Fhcenix, September 16, 1903. 

 2 6". 

 Ceuthophilus lamellipes n. sp. 



Types: cJ^ and 9 ; Phoenix, Maricopa Co., Arizona, November 18, 

 1903. (Kunze.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to C. pacificus, hen- 

 shawi and salebrosus Scudder, 

 but in most every character 

 closer to salebrostis^^ than to the 

 others. From this it differs in 

 the nearly smooth abdomen, 

 the greater size, the different 

 proportions of the caudal tarsal 

 joints (second twice as long as 

 the third), the different charac- 

 ter of the serrations on the lam- 

 ellate ventral carinae of the 

 caudal femora, the longer cau- 



Fig. 19. — Ceuthophilus lamellipes n. sp. 

 Caudal leg of male. (X 3.) 



3^ Canad. Entom., XXXI, p. 120. [Tenino, Thurston Co., Washington.] 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



dal tibiio and the presence of an apical hook on the inner valves of the 

 ovipositor. 



Size medium; form moderately compressed. Head with the occiput 

 and vertex declivent to the low, broadly trigonal, shallowly sulcate 

 fastigium; eyes trigonal pyriform; distal joint of the palpi arcuate. 

 Pronotum with the cephalic margin slightly emarginate, caudal margin 

 subtruncate; lateral lobes with the ventral margin slightly arcuate. 

 Abdomen smooth; ovipositor very slightly longer than the pronotum, 

 tapering from the base to aJDOut the middle, distad of which it is sub- 

 equal, the apex obliquely truncate, the inner valves each armed with 

 five teeth, of which the two terminal ones are longer than the others 

 and more recurved ; styles of the female about 

 equal to the ovipositor in length. Cephalic 

 femora about a third again as long as the 

 pronotum, moderately robust, the cephalic 

 margin armed with a single pregenicular Fig. 20 . — Ceuthophilvs 

 spine; cephalic tibiae equal to the femora vTeV^^of'^'^ovipo^sitor. 

 in length. Median femora in the male half (X 6.) 

 again as long as the pronotum, in the 



female slightly less, the cephalic margin armed with three or four spines 

 of which the distal is the longer, caudal genicular lobe spined. Caudal 

 femora in the male moderately long, very considerably inflated, the 

 greatest width contained about two and a half times in the length, 

 dorsal face well supplied with sharp tubercles on the tracings of the 

 scalariform pattern and other irregular lines, ventral carinse elevated, 

 distinctly lamellate, the margins serrato-dentate, separated from the 

 genicular region by a narrow area where the lamellate ridges are roundly 

 excised, immediately proximad of this the ridge develops an acute 

 trigonal process, the ventral margin of which is serrato-dentate con- 

 tinuous with the proximal portions of the carinse; ventral sulcus very 

 broad and moderately deep, the trigonal processes of the margins 

 diverging; caudal tibia) of the male in actual length (following curve) 

 longer than the femora, the proximal fourth forming a quarter circle, the 

 distal three-fourths straight, four pairs of spurs present on the dorsal 

 margins of the shaft, in length these hardly equal the tibial depth, the 

 margins also well supplied with fine teeth, ventral margin somewhat 

 crenulate proximad and with a single spine immediately proximad of 

 the tW'O apical ones, apical spurs long, the median internal one about 

 equalling the dorsal length of the metatarsus; caudal tarsi with the third 

 joint not more than half the length of the second. Caudal femora of 

 female moderately inflated, the greatest width contained about three 




so PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



times in the length, dorsal surface with a few sharp tubercles, but the 

 number or size not as great as in the male, ventral carinas slightly ele- 

 vated, finely serrate-dentate in the distal half and with an indication of 

 the pregenicular diastema of the male; caudal tibise of female straight, 

 slightly longer than in the male. 



General color, clay color marked more or less with prout's brown. 

 Antennae cinnamon. Pronotum with a narrow median area and the 

 ventral portions of the lateral lobes of the general color, as well as a 

 large irregularly quadrate or rectangular patch on each side. Mesono- 

 tum and metanotum with an irregular system of broad alternating 

 pale and dark bars, the abdomen bearing the type of markings only 

 more numerous, smaller, and more restricted to the caudal margin of 

 the segments. Cephalic and median limbs sometimes clouded with 

 the darker color; caudal femora with the tubercles and serrations dark, 

 in the female the pattern of musculation being more truly scalariform 

 and not with a broad medio-longitudinal interruption as in the male. 



Measure7net'its. 



Length of body, 16.5 mm. 17.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 " 4.2 " . 



Length of cephalic femur, 6.2 " 5.5 " 



Length of median femur 6 " 5.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 12.8 " 11.3 " 



Length of caudal tibia, 13.2^3 « n 



Length of ovipositor, 4.5 " 



In addition to the types a paratypic male, taken November 7, has 

 also been examined. 



GRYLLID^. 

 Gryllus personatus Uhler. 



September 7-12, November 24, 1903. 5 c? , 18 9 , 1 nymph (XI. 24). 



This interesting series shows that a considerable amount of variation 

 in size exists in this form. While this feature is very apparent it is not 

 as conspicuous as the variation in color, which latter ranges from a 

 decidedly straw-colored type (the predominating phase) to a blackish 

 brown form with no trace of the usual coloration, except a very narrow 

 pale margin to the ventral portion of the lateral lobes and a few small 

 spots on the vertex and fastigium. In many respects this dark type 

 superficially resembles Mexican specimens of G. assimilis, from which, 



^^ In straight line. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



however, it can be separated by the form of the specukiin of the male 

 tegmina. 



All the adult specimens seen are macropterous. 



Gryllus armatus Scudder. 



September 7-12. 1903. 1 d^, 11 9 . 



But little variation in size is presented by this series, and in colora- 

 tion a slight deepening of the shade of the tegmina and on the caudal 

 femora a replacing of tawny by bistre is all that is noteworthy. The 

 base color of the pronotum shows a tendency toward reddish in several 

 specimens, the head, however, remaining shining black. All the speci- 

 mens are macropterous. 



Gryllus alogus Uehn. 



November 18, 1903. 1 ? . 



(Ecanthus californious Saussure. 



November 10 and 24, 1903. 2 c?. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.; 



THE MORPHOLOGY OF DINOPHILUS CONKLINI n. sp. 



by james a. xelsox, ph.d. 

 Contents. 



I. Introduction. 



The systematic position of Dinophilus has been a subject of con- 

 siderable interest to naturalists ever since the establishment of the 

 genus by Oscar Schmidt in 1848, and the opinions held on this point 

 have been — relatively speaking — many and various. In a former 

 paper on the early development of this form (1904a) I gave a brief 

 review of these; to repeat it here seems superfluous. In the paper just 

 mentioned certain conclusions as to the relationships of Dinophilus 

 were stated, based on a study of its development. In the studies of 

 which the present paper is the result, an attempt has been made to 

 test these conclusions by a study at first hand of the morphology of 

 the same species. This seemed the more desirable, since in the last 

 fifteen years there have appeared but three papers on the structure of 

 members of this group, and those dealt with species different in many 

 respects from the one studied by me. Moreover, the apparent rarity 

 of Dinophilus and its sporadic occurrence was an additional incentive 

 to making the best of the opportunity which presented itself in finding 

 abundant material for the study of its morphology, as well as its 

 development, in the aquaria of the University of Pennsylvania. 



It gives me pleasure to take this opportunity to express my indebted- 

 ness to Prof. E. G. Conklin, of the University of Pennsylvania, for the 

 privilege of taking Dinophilus material from the acjuaria of the Univer- 

 sity ; to the Carnegie Institution for the use of one of its rooms at Woods 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADKLrill A. 83 



Hole during the summer of 1903; ami to Trof. L. B. Walton for extend- 

 ing to me the use of the biological laboratory at Kenyon College. I 

 wish especially to thank Prof. J. H. Comstock for the unfailing kindness 

 he has shown me at Cornell University. I wish also to thank my 

 friends, Dr. J. Percy Moore, of the University of Pennsylvania, and 

 Prof. A. D. ^lacliillivray, of Cornell University, for kindly advice and 

 criticism. 



II. Material and Technique. 



All of the material employed in the preparation of this paper was 

 obtained from the sea-water aquaria of the University of Pennsylvania. 

 This material was collected in three lots at three different periods. 

 The first lot was taken during the winter of 1901-2, and its preserva- 

 tion was only incidental to the collection of ova, which formed the 

 basis of a former paper by me (1904) on the early embryology of this 

 form. The individuals taken at this time .-were among the largest 

 obtained. The second lot was taken during the latter part of June and 

 the first few^ days of Juh^ 1903. These individuals averaged possibly 

 one-fourth to one-third smaller than those of the first lot. The third 

 lot was obtained during the winter of 1903-4. The individuals com- 

 prised in this lot are intermediate in size between those of the first 

 two lots, being much larger than those of the second lot, but scarcely 

 equalling those of the first. 



The methods of fixation employed were but three in number : 



(1) Kleinenberg's picro-sulphuric for one-half to three-quarters of 

 an hour, followed by a washing in 70 per cent, alcohol. This method 

 of fixation, which has given excellent results for many ova, including 

 those of this form, proved only an indifferent one for the mature in- 

 dividuals, and material fixed in this manner w-as unsuitable for the 

 study of any of the finer structures. It has, however, the advantage of 

 preserving the form and proportions of the object very well, and this 

 material was made use of largely as mounted entire. 



(2) A saturated aqueous solution of corrosive sublimate, containing 

 6 per cent, of glacial acetic acid, used boiling hot, and followed by a 

 thorough washing in 70 per cent, alcohol. The material fixed in this 

 manner has proved exceedingly valuable, anil many of my best draw- 

 ings were made from it. The form and relation of the tliffercnt parts 

 are admirably preserved, as well as those of the cells composing them, 

 while in many cases the finer structures, such as cilia, maintain their 

 integrity. After sectioning and staining the individuals collected in 

 the summer of 1903, which wiere fixed by this method, a peculiar 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



{lifferentiation of the nerve fibres became evident. Tlie latter did not 

 absorb the chromatin stain (iron-hsematoxylin), but on the contrary 

 remained clear and of a light straw yellow color, or, in sections where 

 eosin was used as a contrast stain, were pale orange. In either case 

 the nerve fibres are easily distinguished from the surrounding tissues. 

 What happy accident caused this differentiation, which occurs in all 

 the series made from the second lot of individuals, I have not been able 

 to determine. It has, however, been of the highest value to me, since 

 without its assistance it would have been an extremely difficult matter 

 to trace out the various parts of the nervous system. That it is but 

 an accident I feel sure, since a number of individuals of another lot, 

 fixed and stained by the same method, showed the nerve fibres stained 

 dark gray, as is the case where other fixatives were used. 



(3) Flemming's fluid, from one-half to twenty-four hours. This 

 method gave very irregular results, yielding some of the finest prepara- 

 tions, as well as some of the poorest. Different individuals, even of 

 the same lot, vary much in the quality of the fixation. The best 

 results were obtained with a fixation of half an hour, although the 

 period of fixation seems to be of minor consequence, since good results 

 were also obtained with a fixation period as long as twenty-four hours. 



The stains employed were: the picro-hcematoxylin of Conklin (1902) 

 for the objects mounted entire, and Haidenhein's iron-hsematoxylin 

 for sections. A contrast stain was used in some cases, a saturated 

 aqueous solution of eosin being employed for this purpose. Experi- 

 ■ence, however, has shown that the use of a plasma stain wdth the iron- 

 lia^matoxylin is, in this form at least, unnecessary, if not actually 

 undesirable. For the purpose of determining the presence of mucin 

 in the hypodermis, Mayer's mucicarmine was employed. The formula 

 is that given by Lee in the fifth edition of The Microtomisf s Vade- 

 Mecum, the material being stained from five to fifteen minutes in a 10 

 per cent, solution. 



The sections were for the most part cut five fi in thickness, this 

 being found to be the minimum compatible with perfect series. Many 

 of the DinopJtilus were embedded and oriented separately, but the 

 best horizontal and sagittal series were obtained by embedding a large 

 number in a Lefevre watch glass, and sectioning the mass entire. 



The living animals were also studied, but, on account of the refrac- 

 tive nature of the protoplasm, proved very imfavorable objects, as far 

 as the internal structure was concerned. Narcotization was success- 

 fully accomplished b}^ the use of chlorotone, the animals soon becoming 

 quiescent, in a relaxed condition, tying on one side, with a shght 

 ventral flexure. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



The small size of the cells of this species of Dinophilus, and the gen- 

 eral lack of distinctness in the boundaries of tissues and organs, made 

 imperative the use of the highest powers. In studying and drawing 

 sections a one-twelfth Zeiss oil immersion was employed almost ex- 

 clusively. This necessitated a brilliant illumination. After the loss 

 of much time from cloudy and dark weather, I had recourse to artificial 

 illumination, as recommended by Child (1900). For this purpose I 

 used a burner of the Welsbach type, mounted about nine inches above 

 the table. Two blue glasses were placed in the cell below the con- 

 denser, one dense and one thin. I heartily concur with Child in the 

 opinion that this means of illumination is sviperior to daylight, at 

 least when high powers are employed. The light, when filtered 

 through the blue glasses, is almost perfectly white, does not tire the 

 eyes, is of constant and unvarying intensity, and, above all, is always 

 available. 



In making the reconstructions which constitute Plate XII, fig. 1 and 

 text fig. n^, a modification of the method given by Lee {Microtomist's 

 Vade-Mecum, 5th ed., 1900) and ascribed to Woodworth, was employed. 

 The camera lucida was, however, used in place of a micrometer. Such 

 reconstructions proved of the greatest value in determining the rela- 

 tions and connections of parts which run through a number of sections, 



III. Anatomy. 

 1. External Fonn and Specific Characters of Dinophilus conklini. 



The Dinophilus which forms the subject of this paper has been 

 found, after comparison with the descriptions of the other members of 

 this genus, sufficiently different from them to warrant description as a 

 new species. I take great pleasure in bestowing upon it the specific 

 name conklini, in honor of Prof. E. G. Conklin, of the University of 

 Pennsylvania, who was the first to find this form. This species has 

 so far been found only in the aquaria belonging to the University of 

 Pennsylvania. Prof. Conklin, however, informs me that he is of the 

 opinion that it is brought in on the Ulva obtained by dredging at Sea 

 Isle City, New Jersey. A comparison with other species and the 

 enumeration of specific characters are postponed to the end of this 

 section. 



The females of Dinophilus conklini are very wormlike in their form 

 and general aspect. Text fig. I, although drawn from a fixed and 

 stained preparation, shows little or no distortion, and represents the 

 animal in a state of moderate extension, such as it often naturally 




86 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



assumes in crawling about over the sea- 

 weeds on which it is commonly found. 

 The outlines of the example from 

 which fig. 1, PI. XII, was taken repre- 

 sent the animal in a somewhat greater 

 state of extension, showing especially 

 well the form of the last segment and 

 the caudal appendage. The head is 

 bluntly conical or rounded in front, 

 and narrows posteriorly to a somewhat 

 constricted neck, where it joins the 

 trunk. Its dorsal surface is also 

 rounded, and bears a pair of reddish 

 eyes, reniform in shape, as is usual in 

 this group. On its ventral surface the 

 head is slightly flattened. The trunk 

 is long fusiform, or cigar-shaped, taper- 

 ing toward the posterior end, and di- 

 vided by six constrictions into as many 

 segments.^ The first two segments are 

 very short, scarcelj" equal to the head 

 in diameter and are limited by relatively 

 deep and well-m.arked constrictions. 

 The three succeeding segments are sub- 

 equal, nearly as broad as long, and sep- 

 arated by comparatively slight con- 

 strictions. In the first of the segments 

 last descriljed, namely, the third of the 

 trunk, the latter reaches its greatest 

 diameter. The sixth segment is short 

 and rounded at its posterior end, and 

 bears on its ventro-posterior surface the 

 conical caudal appendage or tail, which 

 in this species is unsegmented. 



Like other members of the group, D. 

 conkiiiii is encircled by a number of 

 bands or rings of cilia, and also possesses the usual ciliated tracts 



Fii;-. I.— Female individual of 

 1). conkiiiii, drawn from a 

 fixed and mounted specimen. 

 Details added from sketches 

 of living animals. (X 142.) 



1 In the descriptive portion of this paper the term "segment" will be used to 

 designate a portion of the trunk bounded by constrictions, without reference to 

 the question whether it is a true metamere. The problem of metamerism in 

 Dinophilus is discussed in Section III, 7. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



on the ventral surface. One of the hitter, the preoral tract, clothes 

 the ventral surface of the head, and at its posterior margin passes into 

 the ciliated lining of the mouth. It serves the obvious purpose of 

 creating currents of water which sweep particles of food toward and 

 into the mouth. The second or postoral tract comprises a narrow 

 strip beginning at the posterior Ijordcr of the mouth and continued 

 backward to the end of the caudal appendage. This strip is widest in 

 its anterior portion, having here a width of approximately one-half of 

 the diameter of the ])ody. From this point it narrows posteriorly and 

 is reduced to a third of its original width on reaching the caudal 

 appendage. 



The ciliated rings number nine; two belonging to the head and seven 

 to the trunk. The two cephalic l^ands are not, however, continuous, 

 each being interrupted on the middorsal surface of the head by a con- 

 siderable gap; both of the two rings are thus divided, with the aid of 

 the ventral ciliated tract, into two lateral halves. The two bands com- 

 posing the first ring arise on the ventral surface, at the lateral edges of 

 the ciliated tract, a short distance posterior to the anterior pole of the 

 head; they then pass upwards and backwards in a gentle curve, and 

 terminate between the eyes (see text fig. I). These bands are narrow, 

 and composed of but few rows of cilia. The two bands representing 

 the second cephalic ring embrace the head at its greatest diameter, 

 and lie in a plane at right angles to the long axis of the animal. These 

 bands are relatively broad and composed of numerous rows of long 

 cilia. As is the case with all the ciliated rings the cilia beat rhythmically 

 backwards, and are only clearly seen in their forward position, that of 

 recoil. 



In the fh'st preoral or cephalic band of D. vorticoides, as described by 

 Schimkewitsch (1895), there is a similar gap. It is possible that in 

 other species of Dinophihis the cephalic bands are also not continuous 

 dorsally, since the cilia are here not easy to make out, except when 

 the animal is seen in profile, or by the study of sections of fixed and 

 stained material. In the case of this species I was at fii'st misled as 

 to the course of the cephalic bands aRd figured them incorrectly (1904a, 

 text fig. VI). This misapprehension was due to the figiu-es and 

 descriptions of other species, and also to the presence of sensory cilia 

 on the dorsal surface of the head, as described below. 



The discovery of the presence of a dorsal gap in the second cephalic 

 ring was of particular interest to me, inasmuch as it tends strongly to 

 confirm my conclusions as to the origin of this band and its homologj'- 

 with the prototroch of the trochophore larva, as expressed in 1904. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



In the embryo of Dinophilus, the "trochoblasts," the cells which pre- 

 sumably form this ring, are last seen as a long band, continuous across 

 the ventral surface, but interrupted dorsally by a wide gap. A similar 

 gap is also present in the prototroch of some annelid larvae, as, for 

 example, in Amphitrite (Mead, 1897), and due to the same cause as in 

 Dinophilus, namely, the large size of 2d (X), "the first somatoblast" 

 of von Wistinghausen (1891), and the rapid growth of its dorsal pro- 

 ducts. This dorsal gap is eventually closed in the case of Amphitrite, 

 but it is in this form much narrower than in Dinophilus; the cells com- 

 posing the prototroch are relatively large, and soon become functional. 

 It appears quite probable, therefore, that the dorsal gap seen in the 

 second cephalic band of the mature Dinophilus is ultimately traceable 

 to the peculiar size-relation and growth processes of the cleavage cells of 

 the ovum of this species. 



Just behind the second cephalic band is a pair of shallow grooves, 

 which arise high up on the sides of the head and pass ventrad, widening 

 and deepening slightly, to join the mouth at its lateral margins. These 

 grooves are lined with short cilia throughout their extent. These are 

 the " Wimpergruben" observed by Schmidt (1848) in D. vorticoides, by 

 Hallez (1879) in D. metameroides, and by Korschelt (1882) in D. 

 apatris. They are supposed by the authors mentioned to function as 

 sense organs, but their relation to the mouth seems to indicate that 

 they may also act as food-gathering organs, creating currents which 

 sweep the food particles down into the mouth. It may be remarked in 

 passing that the " Wimpergruben" of this species of Dinophilus are 

 strikingly similar to the ciliated grooves of jElosoma tenebrarum, as 

 described by Miss Brace (1901). 



The seven ciliated bands of the trunk are simple narrow transverse 

 circlets, uninterrupted on the dorsal surface, with the exception of the 

 last. Below they merge wdth the ventral ciliated strip. Each band 

 encircles the middle of its respective segment. The terminal or circum- 

 anal ring is scarcely worthy of the name, since it consists only of 

 two short ciliated bands. These arise at edges of the ventral ciliated 

 area, at the point where the last Segment joins the caudal appendage, 

 and pass upward on the posterior edges of the segment for a short dis- 

 tance (see text fig. I). 



In common with other species of this group, D. conklini possesses 

 conspicuous sense hairs on the anterior surface of the head. Two of 

 these are of considerable size and symmetrically placed, pointing for- 

 ward and slightly outward, while scattered between and around them 

 are a number of smaller hairs. These are in fact tapering projections 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 89 



of naked protoplasm; the large sense hairs, as Korschclt (18S2) has 

 observed, are capable of movement. This movement coasists in a 

 gentle waving to and fro of the tips, especially noticeable when these 

 cilia come into contact with foreign objects, and demonstrating clearly 

 their tactile function. On the dorsal surface of the head, just behind 

 the eyes, is another group of sense hairs, all of which are very small. 



Like both D. gyrociliatus and apatris, which it closely resembles in 

 other respects, D. conklini is colorless. Although lacking in color, 

 it is relatively opaque; this quality appearing to be due to the refractive 

 qualities of the protoplasm, rather than to anything contained within 

 the body of the animal. Wlien seen by reflected light its shining opaque 

 whiteness makes it a conspicuous object when viewed against the dark 

 background formed by the seaweeds on which it is commonly found. 

 This lack of transparency natm-ally renders more difficult the study of 

 the internal structure of the living animal. 



The size of this species is subject to great variation. Measurements 

 of the length of adult examples (in alcohol) of the first lot, taken in the 

 winter of 1901-2, vary from 0.57 mm. to 0.91 mm. ; the average of this 

 lot being about 0.73 mm. This variation in length is doubtless in part 

 due to the differing degree of contraction of the examples taken, but 

 it also, to a considerable extent, represents a real variation in size. 

 Fully extended living individuals would yield measurements possibly 

 one-tenth to one-fifth greater, but it is doubtful if any would exceed 

 1 mm. The examples of the second or summer lot, although less con- 

 tracted by the fixing fluid than those of the first, show a range of 0.309 

 mm. to 0.60 mm., the average length being only 0.46 mm. From the 

 third lot (winter 1903-4) only a few measurements were taken. The 

 maximum of these was 0.74 mm., w^hile the average was 0.616 mm. 

 From these measurements it seems to follow that summer individuals 

 are much smaller than those taken in cold weather. This may really 

 be the case, but unfortunately these observations are not extensive 

 enough to form the basis of any certain conclusions regarding this 

 matter. All the examples taken were, or appeared to be, sexually 

 mature. Considerable variation in size has also been noted by Kor- 

 schelt (1882) in D. apatris, and by Weldon (1886) in D. gigas. The 

 first mentioned author says, ' ' Seine Lange ist bei geschlechtsreife Thiere 

 ziemlich verschieden. " Weldon states that "The length of the body 

 varied greatly, the smallest specimens found being al^out 0.75 mm., 

 while the largest were nearly two millimeters in length. ' ' Whether all 

 these were sexually mature is not stated. 



Of the males of this species, only one was observed. This was still 




•93 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Fiii'.TI. — Male iudividual of D.conklini, 

 drawn from a living specimen. A, 

 dorsal surface ; B, lateral surface. 



confined in tlie egg capsule, together witli female eml^ryos, ])ut was 

 nevertheless fully formed and swimming about as freely as its limited 

 quarters would allow. In all essential characters it resembles the male 



of D. apatris Korsch. Its form 

 (text figs. II, A and B) is that of 

 a short cjdinder with rounded 

 ends, slightly constricted at its 

 middle. Al)out the anterior end 

 is a ring of cilia situated in a 

 groove. This ring is continuous 

 below with a strip of cilia clothing 

 the ventral surface. At its poste- 

 rior end was seen the outlines of 

 the conical penis, which is directed 

 downward and backward, as 

 Korschelt (1SS2, 1889) has figured 

 it. Of the interior of the body 

 little else could be discerned ex- 

 cept a number of refractive granules, which were prol^abh' sper- 

 matozoa. 



As will appear from a glance at the taljle of species given ])elow, D. 

 conklini stands very close to D. apatris Korsch. and D. gyrociliatus 0. 

 Sch. From D. apairis it differs in the proportions of head and trunk, 

 in the presence of dorsal gaps in the preoral ciliated bands, in having 

 but two large sense hairs instead of four, and in the presence of a cicum- 

 anal or terminal band. D. conklini moreover lacks a character which 

 seems to be distinctive of D. apatris, namel}', tliat of having the head 

 joined to the trunk b}" the intermediation of a short piece, which has the 

 appearance of a much shortened segment, without the ring of cilia. 

 The characters distinguishing D. gyrociliatus and D. conklini are much 

 slighter. Indeed the sole external difference distinguishing the two 

 species is the presence of the dorsal gaps in the two preoral bands of 

 cilia in D. conklini. This alone would seem far too slender a basis on 

 which to erect a new species, if it were not that it is accompanied by 

 considerable differences in the internal organs, the nephridia in par- 

 ticular. 



In the table below an attempt has been made to set forth in brief 

 form the distinguishing characters of the different species composing 

 the group, and the literature directly relating to each. That this table 

 is imperfect is certain, but this is due at least in part to the imper- 

 fectness of many of the descriptions, especially the earlier ones. Later 




1907.1 NAxruAL scii:nx'Es of Philadelphia. 91 



descriptions and figures, when sucli exist, have been used in the behef 

 that they are more Ukely to be accurate. The literature list is as 

 accurate and complete as lay in the writer's ])ower to make it, l)ut it 

 has been found wellnigh impossible to collect all of the scattered refer- 

 ences to the genus. If either the table of species or the literature list 

 j-jroves helpful to an}' student of the group, or serves to faciliate com- 

 parison of the characters of the various species, it will have fulfilled its 

 purpose. The characterization of the genus has been added for the 

 sake of completeness. 



Genus DINOPHILUS. 



Minute wormlike forms, generally displaying an external division 

 into segments, delimited bj' constrictions; each trunk segment, includ- 

 ing the head, bearing one or two bands or circlets of long cilia; in addi- 

 tion to these a ciliated strip clothes the ventral surface. The last seg- 

 ment bears a conical caudal appendage. The anterior surface of the 

 head usually provided with sense hairs. Alimentary canal well 

 developed (except in the degenerate males of certain species), consist- 

 ing of a mouth opening on the ventral surface of the head ; an oesophagus 

 provided on its posterior inner surface, where it joins the mouth, wdth 

 an eversible proboscis; a capacious stomach, and a short intestine ter- 

 minating dorsad to the caudal appendage. Coelom represented by the 

 cavities of the gonads. A primary body cavity of varying extent 

 always present. Nervous system consisting of a simple brain, a pair 

 of circumoesophageal commissures, and, continuous with the latter, tw^o 

 ventral cords, embedded in the hypodermis. In some members of the 

 group, at least, are also present transverse commissures and pairs of 

 ganglia correlated with the segments as indicated on the exterior. 

 Nephridia, when present, of the protonephridial or larval type, and 

 arranged metamericall}^ 



Table of Species of Dinophilus. — 



A. — Sexes monomorphic. 



B. — Gonads paired, extending to the anterior extremity of the 

 trunk. Two bands of cilia borne b}- each trunk 

 segment. 

 C. — ^Trunk segments 6. 



D, — Caudal appendage 3-segmented vorticoides. 



DD. — Caudal appendage unsegmented, ... gardineri. 



CC. — Trunk segments 5, tceniatus. 



BB. — Gonads Y-shaped; only one Ijand of cilia borne on each 

 trunk segment, gigas. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



AA. — Sexes dimorphic, the males much reduced and degenerate in 

 structure; corresponding with this condition is a 

 dimorphism of the ova. Ovary unpaired. Only- 

 one band of cilia borne on each trunk segment, with 

 the exception of the last, which may bear two. 

 B. — Trunk segments 6. 

 C. — Body not covered with a coat of cilia between the bands. 

 D. — Circumanal band present. 

 E. — Cephalic bands without dorsal interruptions; anterior 

 pair of nephridia simple, . . . gyrociliaius. 



EE. — Cephalic bands with dorsal interruptions; anterior pair 



of nephridia complex, conklini. 



DD. — Circumanal band wanting, apatris. 



CC. — Body covered with a coat of cilia between the bands, 



metameroides. ^ 

 BB. — Trunk segments 5, pygmceus. 



List of Species of Dinophilus. — 



1. Dinophilus vorticoides.' 



Schmidt, 1848.— Sclmltze, 1849.— Diesing, 1850.— Beneden, 1851.— Quatre- 

 fages, 1851.— Beneden, 1861.— Diesing, 1862.— Graff, 1882.— Weldon, 

 1886.— Harmer, 1889a.— Schimkewitsch, 1895.— Schultz, 1902. 



Head equal in width to first trunk segment, bearing two ciliated 

 bands; the first with a dorsal gap (Schimkewitsch), the second uninter- 

 rupted. Ovaries four-lobed. Color, orange. Length, (?). Habitat^ 

 Faroe Islands (Schmidt), Belgian coast (Beneden), White Sea (Mer- 

 eschkowsky, Schimkewitsch). 



2. Dinophilus gardineri. 



Moore, 1899.— Schultz, 1902. 

 Head not wider than first trunk segment, bearing two ciliated 

 bands(?). Body covered with a coat of cilia in addition to the ciliated 

 bands. Caudal appendage short. Color, orange red. Habitat, brackish 

 pools. Woods Hole, Massachusetts, U. S. A. 



3. Dinophilus taeniatus. 



Harmer, 1889, 1889a.— Schimkewitsch, 1895.— Schultz, 1902.— Shearer. 

 1906. 



Head slightly narrower than first trunk segment, bearing two 

 uninterrupted ciliated bands. Circumanal band present. Female 

 with ovaries four-lobed, male with a median penis and lateral seminal 



' That this species is dimorphic is assumed on the ground that Hallez found no 

 male.s. If this assumption is correct it is probable that the ovary is unpaired. 



' Graff (1882), following Diesing (1850), considers this species identical with 

 Vortex capitata Oersted (1843) and Goniocarena capitata Schmarda (1859). 

 Oersted's original description being inaccessible, it seemed advisable to allowr 

 Schmidt's name to stand pro^•isionally. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



vesicles. Color, bright orange. Length, 2.0 mm. Habitat, Plymouth, 



iMiglanil. 



4. Dinophilus gigas. 



Wt'l.lon, lS8tJ.— Korsclielt, 1SS7.— Harmer, 18S9a.— Schimkewtsch, 1895.— 

 Scliultz, 1902. 



Head slightly wider than first trunk segment, ])earing one ciliated 

 band. Trunk segments seven. No circumanal band. Long sense 

 hairs in two symmetrical patches on the anterior surface of the head. 

 Color, a brilliant orange. Length, 0.75-2.0 mm. Habitat, Mounts 

 Bay, Penzance, England. 



5. Dinophilus gyrooiliatus. 



Schinitlt. lS.-,7.— DiesinK, 1S62.— Korsclielt, 1882.— Meyer, 1886.— Repia- 

 choff, 1880.- Korsclielt, 1887.— Harmer, 18S9a.— Schimkewitsch, 1895.— 

 Schultz, 1902. 



Head not wider than first trunk segment, bearing two complete 

 ciliated bands. Caudal appendage unsegmented. Two large sense 

 hairs on the anterior surface of the head symmetrically placed(?). 

 Colorless. Length, (?). Habitat, Naples, Italy. 



6. Dinophilus conklini n. sp. Pis. XII, XIII. 



Head not wider than first trunk segment, bearing two ciliated bands. 

 An imperfect circumanal band present. Caudal appendage unseg- 

 mented. Two symmetrically placed large sense hairs on the anterior 

 surface of the head, in addition to several smaller ones. Colorless. 

 Length, 0.50-1.0 mm. Habitat, aquaria, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. A.; 

 New Jersey coast, U. S. A.(?). 



7. Dinophilus apatris. 



Korsclielt, 1882.- Repiachoff, 1SS6.— Harmer, 1889a.— Schimkewitsch 

 1895.— Prowazek, 1900.— Schultz, 1902.— Malsen, 1906. 



Head wider than any of the trunk segments, bearing two ciliated 

 bands. Head joined to trunk by a short piece having the appearance 

 of an imperfectly developed segment without the ciliated band. 

 Caudal appendage unsegmented. Four very large sense hairs on the 

 anterior surface of the head in two symmetrical pairs. Colorless. 

 Length, 1.2 mm. Habitat, aquaria, Freiburg (Korschelt) and Berlin 

 (Prowazek). Also found at Trieste, Austria (von Malsen). 



8. Dinophilus metameroides. 



Hallez, 1879.- Korschelt, 1882.- Graff, 1882.— Weldon, 1886.— Korschelt 

 1887.— Harmer, 1889.— vSchimkewitsch, 189.3.— Schultz, 1902. 



Head bearing two ciliated bands. Trinik segments sharply demar- 

 cated, the first much longer than the others. Caudal appendage 5-6 

 annulate with long papilliB. Mouth a longitudinal cleft. Color, red. 

 Length, (?). Habitat, Wimereaux, France. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.^ 



9. Dinophilus pygmseus. 



Verrill, 1S92.— Scliimkewitsch, 1895.— Schultz, 1902. 



Head equal in width to first trunk segment, bearing two complete 

 ciliated bands. No circumanal band present. Caudal appendage 

 sliort and unsegmented. Male unknown. Color, (?). Length, 0.7 mm. 

 Habitat, Woods Hole, Massachusetts, U. S. A. 



Unrecognized Species. — 



Dinophilus sphceroccphalus Schmarda, 1S59. Guayaquil, S. A. 

 Description scanty and inadequate. 



Dinophilus borealis Diesing, 1862. This species is considered by 

 Diesing to be equivalent to Plagiostomum horealc 0. Schmidt, and 

 Vortex vittata Frey and Leuckart. It is probably a true turbellarian. 



Dinophilus Jensen, 1878. 



Dinophilus caudafus Levinson, 1879-80. Levinson, curiously 

 enough, considers this species identical with D. vorticoides 0. Sch., and 

 also with Planaria caudata of Fabricius {Fauna Groenlandica) and 

 Miiller {Zoologica Danica). I was unable to satisfy myself that this 

 was the case, and therefore allowed Sclimidt's name to stand. 



Dinophilus rostratus Schultz, 1902. This curious form is clearly not 

 a member of the genus Dinophilus, whatever its relationships may be. 



2. Body Wall. 



The body wall consists of the hypodermis and the circular and longi- 

 tudinal muscles. It also contains the longitudinal nerve cords, as 

 well as sensory cells; these are described in the section on the nervous 

 system. 



The hypodermis is a simple epithelium whose cells rest internally 

 upon a thin basement membrane, and are clothed externally by a 

 cuticle. The body wall, generally speaking, is quite thin relative to the 

 size of the animal, but its thickness differs much in the various parts 

 of the body, and also varies in proportion to its degree of contraction. 

 In the region of the head, more particularly on its ventral side, the 

 hypodermis reaches its greatest thickness, about 15 pt. In the trunk 

 there is a thickened portion along the ventral side,^ roughly coincident 

 with the ciliated area of this region; it is slightly thicker near the 

 middle of its length than at the ends (figs. 6, 7, 8 and 9), In the 



^Shearer (1906) has compared this thickened area with the "crawling pad" 

 of the TurbeUaria. It is, however, rather to be compared to the ventral plate of 

 annelid larvte, since it is formed in the same manner and from the same cleavage 

 cells (Schimkewitsch, 1895; Nelson, 1904). 




1007. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIILADKLIMII A. 95- 



posterior part of the last segment, especially on the dorsal side, the 

 hypoderniis is also much thickened. On the dorsum and sides of the 

 trunk, however, the thickness of the body wall is closely related to the 

 external segmentation. At the middle region of each segment the 

 hypoderniis reaches the thickness attained by its ventral portion 

 (5-S /O ; it gradually becomes thinner toward the limits of each segment, 

 its minimum, ca. 3 /«, being reached in the intersegmental regions. 

 These differences in the height of the hypodermal cells find expression 

 on the external surface of the body wall alone, which consequently in 

 longitudinal section presents an undulating outline. In cases where 

 the contraction of the animal has been excessive, the exterior of the 

 body wall may even have the appearance of being deeply indented in 

 the intersegmental regions. 



Supporting Cells. — The hypodermal cells are differentiated into sup- 

 porting cells, ciliated and non-ciliated, and gland cells. The non- 

 ciliated supporting cells (fig. 14, also figs. 2-8), which make up the 

 greater portion of the hypodermis, are simple epithelial cells, flat in the 

 thinner portion of the body wall, but in the thicker portions becoming 

 cuboidal and even columnar, as in some parts of the head. In the 

 ventral portion of the latter, for example, the hypodermal cells are so 

 closely set together that the bases of some of them seem to have been 

 forced inward, and have the appearance of pyriform processes, each of 

 which contains a nucleus (PI. XIII, fig. 23). The cytoplasm of the non- 

 ciliated cells is clear; high magnification presents an alveolar appear- 

 ance. Throughout the region of the head, next to the hypodermis, is 

 a distinct layer of vacuoles (figs. 2 and 12), similar to that described by 

 Meyer (1901) as occurring in the larva of Lopadorhynchus. A layer of 

 smaller vacuoles is also discernible in the hypodermis of the trunk (fig. 

 6). The nuclei are spherical or ovoid, provided with an open reticulum 

 of linin, bearing minute chromatin granules and a large and prominent 

 chromatin nucleolus (karyosome). The ciliated cells may, in sections, 

 be at once distinguished by their darker aspect, and are, as described 

 in the preceding section, distributed to form two ventral tracts and nine 

 bands. The latter are, with the exception of the second cephalic 

 band, composed of but one row of cells, their outer surfaces elongated 

 in the direction of the band (fig. 27), and meeting onl}^ at their extreme 

 ends. The second cephalic ring or band is, on the other hand, com- 

 posed of two rows of cells (fig. 28, c.r. 2), similar to those of the other 

 bands. This difference has also been noted by Schimkewitsch (1895) 

 in the White Sea Dinophilus {D. vorticoides) . The cells composing 

 the cephalic bands are wedge-shaped, in conformity with the general 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



thickness of the hypodermis of this region; the point of the wedge 

 being directed inwards (figs. 19 and 20). The nuclei of these cells are 

 situated near their inner ends, and often compressed laterally. 



The ventral ciliated areas of the trunk and head are essentially 

 similar in structure. That of the trunk contains both ciliated and 

 non-ciliated cells in the proportion of about two to one (fig. 28). The 

 outer surfaces of these cells are irregularly polyhedral and not elongated 

 in the direction of the long axis of the body, as Schimkewitsch (1895) 

 has described them in D. vorticoides. The cells composing the ventral 

 ciliated strip are cubical or columnar near the midline, but toward the 

 outer margin of the strip the cell walls slant inwards, so that the cells 

 here have the form of pyi^amids or truncated cones, as illustrated in 

 fig. 14. 



The nuclei of the cilia-bearing cells resemble those of the non-ciliated 

 supporting cells. The cytoplasm of the ciliated cells is also finely 

 alveolar. Embedded in the cytoplasm, at a short distance from the 

 cuticle, are the end knobs of the cilia. These are oval in form, separ- 

 ated from one another by a distance of about 1 /.i. From the outer 

 ends of these arise the cilia, w^hich pass to the distal surface of the cell 

 and, piercing the cuticle, reach the exterior. The inner ends of the 

 knobs are attached to the intracellular fibrillse usually present in cilia- 

 bearing cells ; these have the appearance, in the best preserved material, 

 fixed in Flemming's fluid, of true fibrils, homogeneous in structure. 

 These fibrillse are exceedingly conspicuous in material fixed in sublimate, 

 appearing in such preparations as tapering rods (figs, 6, 7, and 9). 

 They pass inward to the base of the cell, and do not always converge 

 toward the nucleus. In some cases two or more fibrillas may be seen 

 to join together, and finally to terminate on the basement membrane 

 at a considerable distance from the nucleus, as seen in the middle cell 

 in fig. 14. To these fibrillse, which are alwaj^s more or less intensely 

 stained, the ciliated cells owe largely their darker aspect, as compared 

 with the non-ciliated supporting cells. 



The hypodermis, as already noted, is everywhere covered externally 

 by a cuticle. The latter is refractive, nearly homogeneous, or with 

 faint striations parallel to its surface. Its thickness ranges from ca. 

 0.9 n on the ventral surface of the trunk to ca. 1.1 /x on the ventral 

 surface of the head, where the hypodermis also reaches its maximum 

 thickness. 



Gland Cells. — ^The hypodermis is very rich in unicellular glands, 

 most of which are of large size relative to that of the supporting cells. 

 These glands are of three kinds or types; those of the first two types 




907 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADBLPHIA, 



97 



containino; mucin, staining intensely 

 witli .Mayer's niucicarniinc; the na- 

 ture of the secretion of those of the 

 third type is undetermined. 



The glands of the first type (fig. 15) 

 are but few in number, and scattered 

 irregularly over the ventral surface 

 of the trunk. In form they are flask- 

 or sac-shaped, with a narrow and 

 constricted mouth. The mucus with 

 which they are filled appears nearly 

 homogeneous, although under a high 

 magnification it presents, in some 

 cases, a finely fibrillar structure. It 

 has, however, never been observed 

 to break up into blocks, as often 

 happens in mucous glands, as, for 

 example, in those of D. vorficoides, 

 as described by Schimkewitsch 

 (1S95). Flattened out against the 

 wall of the gland, and usually a little 

 to one side of its base, is found the 

 shrunken nucleus (n.), together with 

 the dark staining and scanty remnant 

 of the original cytoplasm. None of 

 the glands of this type were seen in 

 the act of discharging their contents. 



The glands of the second type (fig. 

 16) are also mucous glands, their 

 contents staining intensely in Dela- 

 field's hsematoxylin, in Conklin's 

 modification of this stain (1902) and 

 picrocarmine, as well as in IMeyer's 

 mucicarmine. They thus become very 

 conspicuous in examples mounted 

 entire, when stained in any of these 

 stains. Examination of individuals 

 thus mounted discloses the interest- 

 ing fact that these glands have, for 

 the most part, a fairly constant and sy 

 the exception of two groups on the 



Fig. III. — Diagrams illustrating the 

 distribution of the hj-podermal 

 mucous ghmds (second type), 

 from camera drawings of fixed 

 specimens. A, head, seen from 

 dorsal surface. 1-4, mucous 

 glands; c.gl., cephalic glands; 

 c.gl.d., duct of cephalic gland. 

 B, entire animal, seen in side view. 



mmetrical arrangement, and, with 

 last segment, vary but slightly in 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



number. Their usual arrangement is that illustrated in text 

 fig. Ill, A and B. As may l^e seen on examination of this 

 figure, the head bears seven of these glands, one median un- 

 paired gland near the anterior pole of the head (1), and three pairs 

 symmetrically grouped on its anterior surface (2, 3, and 4). On the 

 trunk their distribution is metameric as well as symmetrical, a row of 

 these glands encircling each of the trunk segments — except the first 

 and last — near its middle, just anterior to the ciliated bands. The 

 second segment commonly possesses five pairs of glands, the third 

 but three pairs, while the fourth and fifth segments have four pairs 

 each. On the sixth segment the glands of this type are divided into 

 two small groups, one occupying a crescentic area just above the anus, 

 on the postero-dorsal portion of the segment (fig. 18); the other group 

 lies on the ventral surface of the caudal appendage. 



All the glands of this, as well as those of the succeeding type, although 

 imicellular, greatly exceed in size any of the hypodermal supporting 

 cells; the gland, for example, represented in fig. 16 being 21 /i in length. 

 Owing to this circumstance only those glands which lie in the thicker 

 portions of the body wall, namely, those of the head and posterior 

 portion of the sixth segment, are permitted to assume a position per- 

 pendicular to the body wall. The others, which are situated in the 

 thinner portions of the latter, are compelled to lie in a plane parallel 

 to the surface of the body, their ducts being bent sharply near their 

 termination in order to reach the exterior. 



The individual glands are long pyriform in shape, generally some- 

 what bent, and often strikingly similar in outline to an old-fashioned 

 powder horn. At the base a crescentic theca of alveolar protoplasm 

 is present in every case, staining deeply in iron-hsematoxylin. Within 

 the protoplasm is contained a clear oval or crescentic nucleus (n.) 

 enclosing a large karyosome. The mucin which fills the gland is 

 always split up into distinct fibrils, longitudinally arranged, thus 

 giving the glands of this type a characteristic striated appearance. 

 Filling the mouth of the gland is a deeply stained plug of protoplasm. 

 None of the preparations studied showed a gland of this type in the 

 act of discharging its excretion. 



The glands of the third type (figs. 17 and 18, gl. 3) are much more 

 numerous than those of either of the preceding types. Their precise 

 manner of distribution, however, could not be determined with as 

 much certainty as that of the preceding type, owing to the fact that 

 they are not distinguishable on individuals mounted entire, but only 

 in sections. A study of the latter shows that on the head the glands 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



are scattered rather irregularly over its dorsal and lateral surfaces. 

 On the trunk these glands accompany those of the preceding type, 

 and are confined principally to the areas occupied by the latter. Thus 

 on each trunk .segment, with the e.xception of the sixth, they also 

 occupy a narrow area just anterior to each ciliated l^and. Each of the 

 trunk segments, from the second to the fifth, inclusive, thus possesses a 

 glandular area which encircles it like a girdle, interrupted, however, 

 by the ventral strij) of cilia. In these areas the glands of the third 

 t}'pe are, together with those of the second, crowded so closeh^ that 

 sections through these regions appear as though honeycombed with 

 glands. In the areas of the sixth segment, previously described as 

 occupied by glands of the second type, those of the last type are also 

 present in such numbers that the hypodermis of these areas is filled 

 with closely crowded glands, as may be seen in fig. IS. At the lateral 

 margins of the ventral ciliated area, on each side, there is also an 

 irregular row of these glands, extending the length of the trunk. 



The form of the glands of this type is that of a short tube, consider- 

 al)ly bent or contorted, rounded at the base and tapering toward the 

 mouth. The contained secretion is granular, often exhibiting a re- 

 ticular structure, staining dark gray with iron-hsematoxylin, and un- 

 aff"ected b}' mucicarmine. A nucleus (71.) with a large plasmasome is 

 usually to be seen near the fundus; the protoplasm surrounding it, 

 however, is not clearly distinguishable from the secretion. These 

 glands are met with in various stages of activity, some of which are 

 illustrated in fig. 18. In contrast to those of the preceding type, 

 discharging glands are frequently met with, as may be seen in the figure 

 just mentioned. Those whose contents have been expelled, as in the 

 example represented in fig. 17, exhibit in the portion devoid of secretion 

 a black-staining residue which lines the walls and extends across from 

 side to side as a coarse network. 



Schmidt (1848) and Hallez (1879) describe rodlike bodies (battonets) 

 as occurring in the cytoplasm of Dinophilus. Nothing corresponding 

 to them exists in D. conklini unless it be the large mucous glands of the 

 second type, which are somewhat rodlike in form. Korschelt (1882) 

 found in D. apatris large glands on the ventral side and also on the 

 dorsum of the last segment; to these he ascribed the function of secret- 

 ing an adhesive fluid, and applied the name " Klcbsdriisen. " A group 

 of pyroform glands similar in function, but of greater length, were also 

 found by him on the caudal appendage; to these he gave the name 

 ' ' Spinndriisen, ' ' in allusion to the long threads of a mucus-like sub- 

 stance thrown out by them. Repiachoff (1886) studied the hypoder- 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



mal glands of D. gyrociliatus, and found that glands similar to the 

 Klebsdriisen occur not only on the caudal appendage, but on the 

 head and on the anterior part of the trunk as well, where they form 

 ringlike groups corresponding to certain shining belts. Moreover, 

 each of these glandular rings was placed before a corresponding ring 

 of cilia. In the White Sea Dinophilus Schimkewitsch (1895) found a 

 similar condition. These metamerically arranged glands Repiachoff 

 considered to be true mucous glands, while the Klebsdriisen were of a 

 different nature. The results of these authors are difficult to reconcile 

 with one another, in the light of my own observations, since, as has been 

 shown, the true mucous glands are comparatively inactive, and would 

 therefore be unlikely to function as adhesive glands. On the other 

 hand, the non-mucous glands — those of the third type — are function- 

 ally very active and constantly emitting their secretion, and these 

 might very well correspond to the Spinndriisen, and possibly also to the 

 Klebsdriisen of Korschelt. A final decision, if it is possible to arrive 

 at one, must however rest on direct observation of the living animal, 

 and therefore be for the present postponed. 



Muscles. — The body wall is provided with only two sets of muscles ; 

 one of these is composed of longitudinal muscle fibres which extend 

 throughout the whole length of the trunk, the other comprises a few 

 muscles traversing the head. A careful search with a one-twelfth oil 

 immersion lens failed to yield any convincing evidence of the presence 

 of a layer of circular or oblique muscles, although in one or two cases 

 isolated circular muscles were found. One of these is shown in fig. 8, 

 on the right side of the figure. The negative evidence in the case 

 seems fairly conclusive, inasmuch as the longitudinal muscles, as well 

 as other muscle fibres, stain intensely in the stain employed, iron 

 hsematoxylin. Other muscle fibres should therefore, if present, be 

 also plainly discernible. In this connection it is to be noted that 

 Protodrilus Hatschek (ISSO) also lacks the layer of circular muscles. 



The longitudinal muscles are distributed in three pairs: (1) a 

 medio-ventral pair lying in the mid-ventral line (fig. 6, v.l.m. 1); (2) a 

 ventro-lateral pair (v.l.m. 2), the two members of which lie at an angle 

 of about 45° from one another, as seen in transverse sections of the 

 trunk, and (3), corresponding with the latter, in the dorsal half of the 

 body, a dorso-lateral pair (d.Lm.). Each muscle is composed of a 

 mnnber of long spindle-shaped fibres, arranged in a single layer in close 

 contact with the hypodermis. Of these fibres the medio-ventral pair 

 of muscles has the fewest, not more than two or three being seen on 

 each side, in transverse sections; while the ventro-lateral and dorso- 




19;j7.] natural sciences of Philadelphia. 101 



lateral may shdw a dozen fibres apiece in the anterior region of the 

 pharanx; the number decreases caudad of this point to six or seven 

 fibres in the middle region of the trunk. Each fibre measures some- 

 what less than 1 a in diameter in its thickest part. It was not possible 

 to determine the precise length of the fibres, but it is probably aljout 

 one-third or one-fourth of the length of the entire animal. Scattered 

 along the muscles, apparently at irregular intervals, arc small spherical 

 nuclei (see fig. 4, v.l.m. 2), each containing a conspicuous karyosome 

 and surrounded by a small and somewhat irregular mass of cytoplasm, 

 the whole having much the appearance of a small mesenchyme cell. 

 The cytoplasmic masses are. in transverse sections, seen to surround 

 one or more muscle fibres. This relation is also shown in fig. 13, which 

 shows a portion of one of the muscles of the head. The nuclei together 

 with the smTOunding cytoplasm, on account of their intimate con- 

 nection with the muscle fibres, are evidently the undifferentiated por- 

 tions of the muscle cells. 



The posterior attachment of all of the longitudinal muscles is the 

 same. As these muscles, passing caudad, reach the last segment they 

 leave the hypodermis (fig. 8), cross the body cavity and, reaching the 

 wall of the rectum, follow it to its union with the hypodermis. At this 

 point the muscles are attached to the body wall l)y means of fine 

 fil)rillae, formed by a brushlike subdivision of the muscle fibres. The 

 anterior attachments of the three pairs of muscles are quite different. 

 From the anterior part of the last segment the two muscles of the medio- 

 ventral pair run close together in the ventral midline to the posterior 

 border of the first trunk segment, where they diverge (compare figs. 5 

 and 6, v.l.m. 1) and, traversing this segment, are attached by a brush 

 of fibrillse to the posterior wall of the oesophagus, at the point where 

 the latter joins the ventral hypodermis, that is, to the inner surface of 

 the outer lip. The ventro-lateral muscles, on the other hand, pre- 

 serve the same relative distance from one another throughout the 

 trunk. On reaching the anterior edge of the mouth each of these 

 muscles gives off one or two fibres which pass directly forward and 

 pierce the lateral lobes of the brain, where they divide into minute 

 branches. These penetrate between the hypodermal cells and are 

 attached to the cuticle l^y conical enlargements of the terminal branches. 

 This manner of attachment to the cuticle, common to all of the muscles 

 terminating in the head, is well illustrated in fig. 23, l.m.i. The 

 remainder of the muscle fibres rapidly converge cephalad of the mouth, 

 and meet at the posterior surface of the brain in the midline. Here 

 they break up into their component fibres. Some of these run directly 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



cephalad to the hypodermis, piercing the brain on their way, mean- 

 while dividing into minute branches which pass between the hypoder- 

 mal cells and attach themselves to the cuticle as described above. By 

 far the greater number of the fibres, however, cross in the midline, 

 forming a sort of chiasma, the fibres of one side passing over to the 

 opposite side, where they pierce the lateral lobe of the brain on that 

 side and, breaking up into fibrillse, are attached to the cuticle of the 

 antero-lateral aspect of the head, near the cells belonging to the first 

 preoral ciliated ring (fig. 19, v.l.m. 2). The dorsal longitudinal muscles, 

 on reaching the level of the mouth, bend downward and run directly 

 forward, to penetrate the lateral portion of the brain of the same side. 

 Here they meet the fibres of the ventro-lateral muscle of the opposite 

 side, and accompany them to their attachment. 



The muscles traversing the head cavity are four in number. The 

 first of these is composed of but a few fibres, which pass in a dorso- 

 ventral direction through the head cavity, just behin^d the brain (fig. 

 23, d.v.m.). The second traverses this space from side to side, while 

 the third and fourth form a pair which cross it obliquely. All of these 

 exhibit the usual brushlike subdivision of the ends of their fibres, 

 and the attachment to the cuticle already described. 



Muscles of the simple type described above have been found in all 

 the species of Dinophilus whose finer anatomy has been carefully 

 studied. Korschelt (1882) first found them in D. apatris, where they 

 form two layers, one of circular and one of longitudinal muscles, the 

 latter having the greater development. The muscles of D. gigas 

 (Weldon, 1886) comprise delicate transverse muscles on the ventral 

 side, and a bundle of fibres on each side of the trunk, running through 

 its whole length, just above the lateral nerve cords. Weldon believed 

 that the fibres of the circular muscles were continuous with processes 

 of certain of the hypodermal cells. Harmer (lS89a) mentions, in his 

 paper on D. tceniatus, longitudinal muscles which are similar to those 

 of D. gigas. Schimkewitsch (1895) studied the muscles of living 

 examples of the White Sea Dinophilus {D. vorticoides) with the 

 aid of methylin blue. Three layers of muscles were found in con- 

 tact with the body wall: an outer circular layer, whose fibres have a 

 regular metameric arrangement; a layer of oblic|ue fibres, and a layer 

 of longitudinal fibres, part of which are gathered together to form a 

 pair of ventral longitudinal muscles. The latter run through the 

 entire length of the trunk ; at its anterior end some of them are attached 

 to the body wall on the fold which separates the head from the trunk, 

 while others pass into the head, cross, and penetrate the brain, as 

 described for D. conklini. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



3. Nervous System. 



(a) Central Nervous System. — The central nervous system com- 

 prises a brain, a pair of circumocsophagcal commissures, and, con- 

 tinuous with the latter, a pair of longitudinal nerve trunks, provided 

 with ganglia and transverse commissures. 



The brain (figs. 1. 2, 19. 20 and 23), which is situated in the anterior 

 portion of the head, is made uj) of two distinct portions, an internal 

 portion composed of interwoven nerve fibres, the neuropil (np.), and 

 an external portion formed of several layers of ganglion cells (gr.c), 

 the outermost of which are in direct contact with the hypodermis. 

 The neuropil, which in sections may always be readily distinguished by 

 its yellowish tinge, as well as by its histological structure, has the 

 general shape of a plano-convex lens, with the convex surface directed 

 forward. It is, as may be seen in either horizontal or transverse sec- 

 tions, divided into three subequal lobes; one dorsal and median, and 

 two lateral. The latter probably correspond to the "lobioptici" of 

 iSchimkewitsch (1895). Near its centre it is, in addition, pierced by 

 a cleftlike aperture (fig. 2), Both the lateral incisions and the median 

 aperture are traversed by the anterior portions of the longitudinal 

 muscle fibres {l.jn.f.) described in the preceding section. The general 

 course of the nerve fibres which make up the neuropil is not immedi- 

 ately apparent ; the first impression received is that of a closely matted 

 and tangled mass. A careful inspection, however, shows that the 

 fibres composing the three lobes for the most part run parallel to their 

 surfaces, while those of the lower half of the fibrous mass, below the 

 median aperture, run from side to side. The latter constitute the 

 transverse commissure of the brain (figs. 2 and 20, br.com.). 



The neuropil mass is covered on its anterior, dorsal and lateral sur- 

 faces by several layers of ganglion cells ; its posterior surface is bounded 

 by the cavity of the head, while its lower portion is separated from 

 the ventral hypodermis by a narrow cleft (fig. 2). The ganglion cells 

 are imperfectly divided into four groups, giving to the brain as a whole 

 a lobed outline (figs. 1, 2, 19, 20 and 23). Three of these groups 

 correspond to the median and lateral lobes of the neuropil, and are due 

 to the same circumstance, namely, the arrangement of the anterior 

 portions of the longitudinal muscle fibres. The fourth group covers 

 the anterior surface of the brain, and is somewhat irregular in outline 

 (figs. 19 and 23). Of these four groups the dorso-median is note- 

 worthy in that it is situated comparatively remote from the rest of the 

 brain, and is connected with the neuropil by a distinct bridge of nerv- 

 ous fibres (fig. 23, ??../.). In fig. 23 a fifth group of ganglion cells is 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



also to be seen just below the brain, on its ventral side, and extending 

 out toward the hypodermis. The presence of this group is, however, 

 apparently unusual, since it could not be found in other examples. 



The ganglion cells of the brain are all very similar in size and form, 

 and have the appearance of being multipolar, axons and dendrites not 

 being distinguishable in most cases. Some of the ganglion cells are, 

 however, demonstrably bipolar, as, for example, the sensory neurons 

 of the tactile cilia. It is probable that all the ganglion cells are of 

 this type, nameh', bipolar. The branching processes (dendrites) form a 

 loose meshwork; some extending peripherally between the hypodermal 

 cells; some — probably axons — extend centrally to enter the neuropil 

 mass. In figs. 19 and 20 many of the ganglion cells appear as if 

 seated on tiny papillse of the neuropil. These papilla-like projections 

 are, of course, only the central processes of the ganglion cells themselves 

 which enter the neuropil and there divide into fil3rillae. 



The cytoplasm of the ganglion cells, in contrast to that of the neigh- 

 boring supporting cells of the hypodermis, stains rather deeply in iron- 

 hsematoxylin. On examination under a high power it presents a 

 granular appearance (fig. 12). The nuclei of the ganglion cells are 

 elliptical in outline and are very constant in size in the same individual, 

 measuring from 1.42 x 2.25 [j. in small individuals to 2.25 x 3.06 /.( in 

 the largest. They are rich in chromatin, which is divided into several 

 large subequal granules, none of which exceeds the others sufficiently 

 to be considered a karj'-osome, as in the nuclei of the other tissue cells. 

 This peculiarity of the nucleus of the ganglion cells renders them, in 

 this form, easily distinguishable wherever they occur. The same 

 distinction, curiously enough, occurs in HistriobdcUa (Histriodrilus), as 

 may be readily gathered from Foettinger's (1S84) figures, although 

 the author does not allude to it in the text. 



Embedded in the posterior portion of the neuropil are cells having a 

 cell-body indistinct in outline, and a large vesicular nucleus with a 

 conspicuous karyosome. These cells are similar in form and size to 

 those of the mesenchyme, which form with their branches a delicate 

 network traversing the head cavity (figs. 19, 20 and 23), and are 

 doubtless to be classed with them. 



The circumo^sophageal commissures spring from the ventro-lateral 

 portions of the neuropil, below its lateral loljes, uniting at this point 

 with the lateral portions of the transverse commissures, with whose 

 fibres they are continuous (figs. 1, 20 and 23, c.com.). Each is at this 

 point nearlj' round in section and lies in contact with the ventral hypo- 

 dermis. Scattered over its surface are a small number of gandion 




1007.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF I'lll LA DKLl'lI I A. 105 



cells. As the two coininissures reach the anterior border of the inoutli 

 they are reunited In- a ))undle of nerve fibres, the preoral transverse 

 connnissure (figs. 1 and 20, pr.com.). This is of uniform diameter 

 throughout, and about one-thirtl of that of the circumoesophageal 

 commissures at this point. It lies partially embedded in the anterior 

 wall of the oesophagus, just above the point where the latter meets the 

 h}'p()tlermis of the ventral portion of the head, as is shown in fig. 23. 

 Accompanying it, on its inner side, next to the oesophageal wall, are a 

 few muscle fibres which terminate on either side in the body wall. 

 In the series from which fig. 1 was taken, a series remarkably favorable 

 for the study of the nervous system, clear evidences were found of 

 nerve fibres which were given off to the inner surfaces of the hypodermal 

 cells from the circumcesophageal commissures, at a point opposite to 

 that of the junction of each with the preoral commissure. These nerve 

 fibres have the appearance of being, to some extent at least, continu- 

 ous with those of the preoral commissures. Moreover, a ganglion 

 cell was found on each side, laterad of the junction of the preoral 

 and circumoesophageal commissures, and having the appearance of 

 belonging to the fibres just mentioned (see fig. 1). 



Just posterior to its union with the preoral commissure, each cir- 

 cumoesophageal commissure gives off a large branch, the oesophageal 

 nerve (figs. 1 and 3, oes.n.). This nerve at first runs in a dorso-pos- 

 terior direction, following the oesophagus, and meeting in its course the 

 ducts of the salivary glands (s.g.d.). It then accompanies these back- 

 ward, but, before reaching the glands themselves, in the middle of the 

 first trunk segment, it suddenly disappears. It possesses a large 

 calibre throughout its course, and is elliptical or flattened in section, 

 being closely applied to the outside of the oesophageal w^all. Near 

 its point of origin it is surrounded by a few ganglion cells, but these do 

 not follow it but a very short distance (fig. 1). 



After giving off the oesophageal nerve the commissures pass back- 

 ward around the oesophagus, just below the lateral longitudinal mus- 

 cles, and are now completely embedded in the hypodermis, just outside 

 of the line of junction of the latter with the oesophageal wall (figs. 3 

 and 4). In section their form has changed from round to long-elliptical ; 

 this alteration being correlated with a decrease in the thickness of the 

 hypodermis. The commissures are now so completely incorporated 

 with the hypodermis that they can only be distinguished by their 

 staining reaction and, to a limited extent, by their histological struc- 

 ture. At the posterior border of the mouth each circumoesophageal 

 commissure, in tlie example from which fig. 1 was made, exhibits an 




lOG PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



opening or fenestra. Just beyond this point, in the posterior part of 

 the first trunk segment, each commissure gives off a large nerve laterad 

 to the ventro-lateral longitudinal muscle, which it accompanies for an 

 indeterminate distance. It was successfully traced, however, only 

 as far as the middle of the second trunk segment. This muscle nerve 

 is flat and embedded in the hypodermis throughout its course, lying 

 just beneath the muscle. It rapidly diminishes in thickness as it 

 passes caudad, and for this reason could not be traced farther with 

 certainty. At the point where the muscle nerve is given off ganglion 

 cells reappear, and the circumoesophageal commissures may be con- 

 sidered to have passed into the lateral nerve cords. The latter, com- 

 posed of nerve fibres longitudinally disposed, remain buried in the 

 hypodermis while traversing the trunk to the posterior portion of the 

 last segment. Here they end, after giving off a branch laterad to 

 the body wall. They are situated apart, throughout their length, at 

 an average distance of about one-half of the diameter of the body, or, 

 as seen in cross sections of the trunk, about 60 degrees of the circle. 

 They are thus slightly mesad of the ventro-lateral longitudinal muscles. 

 In the second trunk segment and the anterior half of the third the 

 ventral cords broaden out greatly, having a rather irregular contour 

 on their mesial side, and are united by three transverse commissures., 

 These commissures, broad where they join the longitudinal nerve 

 cord, become so narrow at the midline that their continuity can only 

 be demonstrated in good transverse sections (fig. 9). Above, below, 

 and laterad of the nerve cords in this region of the body, but within 

 the hypodermis, are numbers of ganglion cells (fig. 9, g.c). The cell 

 bodies of these latter cannot be distinguished from those of the sur- 

 rounding hypodermis cells; their nuclei, however, are readily distin- 

 guishable, being precisely like those of the ganglion cells of the brain, 

 except as to size, ranging from 1.12 /z x 1.87 /« to 1.80// x 2.25 ,m. Their 

 average size is therefore nearly one-third smaller. These cells together 

 form a long and diffuse ganglion, extending from the anterior of the 

 second trunk segment to the middle of the third. At the latter point 

 the ventral nerve cords rather suddenly contract, almost immediately 

 widening again, and in the posterior half of the third trunk segment 

 are again united by two commissures, situated apart at a distance of 

 ca. 15 fi. Ganglion cells are also present here, forming a second pair 

 of ganglia; the number of ganglion cells is, however, much less than in 

 the preceding, and the second pair of ganglia are conseciuently of much 

 less extent (fig. 9). The third pair of ganglia are similar to the second 

 pair, but are composed of still fewer cells, and situated between the 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



fourtli and fit'th trunk sc2;monts. Two commissures here join the 

 ventral cords with one anotiier. Hetweeu this ))air of ganglia and the 

 precetling, in the left ventral nerve cord, another opening or fenestra 

 is seen in fig. 1. Between the fifth and sixth segments is the fourth 

 pair of ganglia, again united l)y two transverse commissures, but pos- 

 sessing only a very few scattered ganglion cells. Posterior to this point, 

 the ventral nerve cords, which have been gradually tapering caudad, 

 suffer a sudden diminution in calibre. A fifth pair of ganglia in the 

 sixth segment is possibly indicated by the presence of three or four 

 ganglion cells on each side. 



Nerves given off laterad from the ventral cords to the hypodermis 

 were not observed, but this by no means argues their absence, since in 

 the nature of the case the}' w^ould be difficult to observe, unless of 

 considerable size. 



(6) Sense Organs. — The Eyes. — These organs are situated, as 

 shown in text fig. I, on the dorso-lateral surface of the head, about 

 midway between its anterior tip and the second ciliated ring; their 

 distance from one another is about one-half of the width of the head 

 at this point. Their structure is essentially the same as that described 

 for the eyes of other members of this group (fig. 10). Each consists of 

 a cup-shaped mass, composed of reddish pigment granules, the mouth 

 of which encloses a subspherical lens, slightly bilobed, the two lobes 

 separated by a well-marked partition. Below the lens, in the lower 

 part of the pigment cup, is a small space filled with a colorless fluid. 

 Each eye is directed forward and outward, and lies embedded in the 

 hypodermis ca. 4 ti below its outer surface. The cellular structure of 

 the eye is not clear. Although the lens is sharply divided into two 

 lateral halves, and in some cases the pigment cup faintly so, no nuclei 

 are discernible within the eye itself, even when depigmented, nor could 

 the eye be definitely connected wdth any of the adjacent cells. About 

 the base of the pigment cup are clustered a number of ganglion cells 

 belonging to the dorso-median group; it would perhaps be more correct 

 to say that the base of the pigment cup is embedded in this group. 

 Some at least of these cells, on account of their position, must func- 

 tion as percipient elements, although no differentiation serving this 

 end could be observed. Korschelt (1SS2) describes a distinct optic 

 nerve, connecting the eye with the brain; on the other hand Weldon 

 (1886), Harmer (1889a) and Schimkewitsch (1895) all agree that, in 

 the species studied by each, the eyes are embedded in the dorsal por- 

 tion of the brain. 



/Sense Hairs. — .Much time was spent in searching for these before 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



they were recognized in fixed and stained material. In life the two 

 larger sense hairs appear as tapering homogeneous threads of proto- 

 plasm, and such structures were sought for in sections. Wlien they 

 were finally identified by their position, they were found to be com- 

 posed of a considerable number of cilia fused together, and borne Ijy a 

 cell essentially similar to those which constitute the adjacent ciliated 

 bands (fig. 12). The smaller sense hairs (fig. 20, t.cil.) differ from the 

 larger in being composed of fewer cilia, and borne by smaller cells. In 

 view of the function of these hairs, a nervous connection was to be 

 looked for. This was demonstrable in a few cases, the clearest of 

 which is shown in fig. 12. Two sensory neurons, similar to the adjacent 

 ganglion cells, in this case at least of the bipolar type, lie between the 

 neuropil and the sense cell. Their peripheral processes are in close 

 contact with the base of the sense cell, while their shorter central 

 processes join with the neuropil. The composite nature of the sense 

 hairs has been already noted by Schimkewitsch (1895) who speaks of 

 the ''Buscheln," and figures the pair of large sense hairs as made up 

 of smaller elements. Miss Moore (1899) says of D. gardneri that "the 

 head bears two tufts of long cilia in front .... these are probably 

 of a sensory nature. ' ' Sense hairs of precisely similar structure, being 

 composed of fused cilia, springing from cells like those which bear the 

 locomotory cilia, are described by Meyer (1901) as found on the 

 ventral surface of the umbrella of the trochophore of Lopadorhynchus. 



Ciliated Grooves. — ^These structures have been noticed under the 

 section on The External Form. Their histological structure offers 

 nothing worthy of comment. The ciliated cells composing these 

 grooves are similar to the other cilia-bearing cells of this form. There 

 is no good evidence of any direct connection with the nervous system, 

 although it is possible that they may be innervated by nerves given 

 off from the preoral transverse commissure. 



Problematical Sense Organs. — These are narrow oval areas, with the 

 long axis of the oval vertical, measuring ca. 10 x 22 //, situated, one on 

 each side, in the constriction between the head and the first trunk seg- 

 ment, and slightly dorsad of the mid-level. A section through one 

 of these organs is represented in fig. 11. The cuticle is seen to be 

 thickened over the whole ciliated surface, and especially at its centre. 

 In the middle of each the cilia are lacking over a space about one-third 

 of the diameter of the whole, their place being supplied by a number of 

 spherical bodies, borne on slender rods, which project barely above 

 the surface of the cuticle. Midway between the outer and inner sur- 

 faces of the body wall the rods stain more intensely and appear to 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILADELIMIIA. lOO" 



thicken, I'onnini:: i^ wcll-niai'kcd zone. Ccntrad of tliis zone the rods are 

 just visible, but can with care be seen to terminate against the base- 

 ment membrane. On the inner side of the basement membrane, at 

 this point, a group of oesophageal muscle fibres are inserted {oes.m.). 

 In the belief that this curious structure was sensory in function, a 

 careful search was made to determine whether a demonstrable con- 

 nection with the nervous system was present, but none could be found. 



From the description given above it is apparent that D. conklini 

 possess a very much simplified nervous system of the ladder type, and 

 one which is embryonic in many particulars, as, for example, in the 

 close association of the whole with the hypodermis (ectoderm), and 

 especially the slight differentiation of the portion belonging to the 

 trunk, where the lateral trunks with their ganglia are not merely in 

 contact with the body wall, but included in it. 



The first description of the nervous system of Dinophilus is that 

 given for D. apatris by Korschelt (1882). The studies of this investi- 

 gator were confined almost wholly to entire individuals, living or 

 mounted in balsam. From one of the latter, stained in alum carmine, 

 he described and figured a brain, from which arose two pairs of nerves : 

 one pair running forward to the eyes, while the other, which passed 

 backward, he regarded as the roots of longitudinal nerves. 



The next paper on Dinophilus, that of Weldon (1886), gave a fairly 

 complete account of the nervous system of this species (D. gigas). 

 According to Weldon, the brain, which fills the preoral lobe, consists 

 of a central mass of nerve fibres, surrounded by ganglion cells, which 

 are, as indicated by his figures, in close contact with the hypodermis. 

 From the brain arise the lateral nerve cords, which are also in close 

 contact with the hypodermis, and consist of nerve fibres and ganglion 

 cells. The latter, however, almost entirely disappear in the posterior 

 region of the body, and apparently show no traces of separation into 

 ganglia. Transverse commissures also appeared to be wanting. In 

 regard to the last two points, there seems room for reasonable doubt 

 if more perfect series of sections than it was at that time possible to 

 make wovild not reveal the presence of both ganglia and transverse 

 coramissm"es in this species. 



In respect to the points last mentioned, the account of Harmer 

 (1889a) is much more satisfactory. This author found in D. keniatus 

 a brain definitely separated from the hypodermis, and a nervous sys- 

 tem of the ladder type, which, although remaining in contact with the 

 body wall, lies outside of its basement membrane. The ganglion cells,. 

 although investing the nerve cords along their whole length, are united 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



at intervals into compact groups to form five pairs of well-defined 

 ganglia, each of which is united by a transverse commissure. Each 

 pair of ganglia corresponds to a trunk segment, although situated 

 slightl}' posterior to the middle of the segment, as indicated on the 

 exterior by the constrictions and ciliated rings. 



In the same year with Weldon's ]5aper (1886) there appeared one on 

 D. gyrociliatus by Repiachoff. This investigator described and 

 figured the brain of this species and the anterior portions of the two 

 circumoesophageal commissures. The brain is, as in the other species, 

 composed of a central mass of nerve fibres (neuropil) invested on all 

 except its posterior surface with ganglion cells. These latter are 

 closely united to the ectoderm, as in D. gigas, whereas in D. tceniatus 

 they are distinctly marked off from it. 



Schimkewitsch (1895) has, in his account of the structure of D. 

 vorticoides , found in the White Sea, given the most complete account 

 of the nervous system of Dinophilus, as well as of other organs. The 

 nervous system of this species is, as a whole, essentially like that of 

 D. tceniatus, but differs from it in two important particulars. The 

 ganglion cells do not invest the lateral nerve cords throughout their 

 length, but are completely segregated into ganglia, the first pair of 

 which, together with their transverse commissure, lies entirely outside 

 of the hypodermis. If the nervous system be used as a criterion, then 

 D. vorticoides has reached the highest stage of development attained 

 by any member of the group thus far investigated. Judged in this 

 aspect, D. gigas should be placed at the foot of the scale; D. conklini 

 second, D. tceniatus third, and lastly D. vorticoides. 



Harmer (18S9a) has made a somewhat detailed comparison between 

 the nervous system of Dinophilus and that of the archiannelids. 

 Dinophilus agrees with all of the members of that somewhat hetero- 

 geneous group in the general plan of the nervous system and in its close 

 relation to the hypodermis (ectoderm). With Protodrilus (Hatschek, 

 1880) and with Histriobdella (Histriodrilus , Foettinger, 1885) it further 

 agrees in the separation of the lateral halves of the ventral nerve 

 strand. However, in a new species of Histriobdella described by Has- 

 well (1900) the lateral halves of the ventral nerve cord are completely 

 fused. Goodrich (1901), in discussing the systematic position of 

 Saccocirrus, has drawn attention to the well-known fact that the 

 epithelial position in this form is shared by chsetopod annelids belong- 

 ing to widely separated groups, as, for example, the Eunicidw (Spengel, 

 1881), Syllidce (Malaquin, 1893), Polynoidw, Chcetopteridw, Maldcmidce 

 (Macintosh, 1885), and Myzostomidce (Graff, 1877). The same 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



may naturally he said of Dinophilus. Moreover, two other special 

 features, nanu'ly. the separation of the lateral halves of the ven- 

 tral nerve corel and the subdivision of the transverse commissures, 

 it shares with many Hermellidce and Serpulid(e (Meyer, 1886). Both 

 the epithelial position of the nervous system and the separation of the 

 nerve cords are found in Nerilla (Pereyaslawzewa, 1896), w^hich is 

 unquestionably a polychsetous annelid, while with the nervous system 

 of i'Elosoma (Brace, 1901), the most primitive member of the 

 Oligocha^ta, there is the closest resemblance. For example, A. tene- 

 brarum, described by Miss Brace, possesses not only a brain closely 

 soldered to the hypodermis, but also widely separated ventral nerve 

 cords, metamerically arranged groups of ganglion cells, and two or 

 more transverse commissures for each segment, all completely 

 embedded in the ventral hypodermis. 



This widespread ectodermal position of the nervous system is of 

 course readily explained as a retention on the part of these forms of an 

 embryonic condition — a permanently arrested stage of development — 

 apparently correlated with their small size and the resulting simplifica- 

 tion of their economy. That the same explanation will apply to 

 Dinophilus is sufficiently obvious; the more so in the light of the 

 researches of Schimkewitsch (1895) on the embryology of this form, as 

 well as the evolution of the nervous system, as seen in the difTering 

 stages of development shown by the various members of the group, 

 and described above. 



There remain three special features of the nervous system of 

 D. conklini. The first of these is the presence of a preoral transverse 

 commissure. This structure may be accounted for in one of several 

 ways. In the first place it might be supposed to represent a com- 

 missure originally postoral, and belonging to the trunk, but which 

 has become preoral in position by the shifting of the mouth in a 

 caudal direction. This would be a perfectly allowable assumption, 

 supported by analogy with related forms, since in both the flat worms 

 and annelids the position of the mouth is by no means a fixed one, 

 but quite subject to shifting. However, although the posterior limb of 

 the triradiate mouth does extend caudad into the trunk region, the 

 evidence of any considerable movement caudad on the part of the 

 mouth as a whole is too slight to lend this explanation of the occur- 

 rence of a preoral transverse commissure any considerable degree of 

 probability. 



In the next place this commissure may be regarded as having arisen 

 entirely de novo in response to the peculiar physiological needs of the 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



animal. Such an explanation is certainly permissible, but it would 

 be worth while first to inquire whether a corresponding structure 

 exists in any of those groups to wdiich Dinophilus can be consideretl 

 related, and from which it may have derived this structural pecviliarity. 

 Such a group is found in the annelids, whose larva, the trochophore, 

 represents either an ancestral condition, or else a stage interpolated in 

 the ontogeny very early in the racial history. In this larva, thanks 

 to the researches of Kleinenberg (1886), confirmed by Meyer (1901). 

 it is known that at an early stage there is present, embedded in the 

 ectoderm, beneath the prototroch, a circular cord of nerve fibres, con- 

 sidered by Kleinenberg as the primitive nervous system of the larva, 

 and homologous with the nervous system of the medusa. At a late 

 period in the development, during the metamorphosis of the larva 

 into the segmented worm, this nerve-ring is crossed, on the future 

 ventral surface of the worm, by the circumoesophageal commissures, 

 forming a structure shaped like the letter H (see Kleinenberg's fig. 31, 

 Taf. IX). This intercalated segment of the nerve-ring persists for a 

 long period, but finally suffers complete absorption and disappears. 

 Now, one of the chief functions of the nerve-ring is that of innervating 

 the prototroch, the principal organ of locomotion of the larva, and of 

 controlling its motions. If, then, the prototroch should persist, it 

 would be ciuite probable that at least a portion of the nerve-ring would 

 persist with it, and it would ciuite likely be that portion which persists 

 longest in the ontogeny. This, I believe, is what has happened in 

 Dinophilus. Moreover, there are also indications of the persistence of 

 the lateral portions of the nerve-ring (see fig. 1). When it is remem- 

 bered that the second preoral ciliated band is in all probability homo- 

 logous with the prototroch of the annelid larva, it will be apparent that 

 there are good reasons for considering the preoral transverse commis- 

 sure of Dinophilus as the persisting remnant of the nerve-ring of the 

 trochophore larva of the annelids, preserved not merely by force of 

 inheritance — since a multitude of examples might be cited to show that 

 this is not of itself sufficient to save an organ or structure from dis- 

 appearance — but rather by the physiological needs of the animal. 



The oesophageal or stomatogastric nerve is not only found in D. 

 gigas (Weldon, 1886), D. tceniatus (Harmer, 1889a), and D. vorticoidcs 

 (Schimkewitsch, 1895), but in annelids generally, as, for example, 

 Oligognathus (Spengel, 1881) and Saccocirrus (Fraipont, 1884). 



The nerve innervating the ventro-lateral longitudinal muscles has 

 not yet been described in any species of Dinophilus; but renewed 

 research of other forms might bring it to light. Its close connection 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELrillA. 113 



with the muscle recalls the precisely similar relation found between 

 the longitudinal nerves and muscles found by Meyer (1901) to exist 

 in the trochophore larva of Lopadorhynchus. and strongly hints that, 

 as in tliat form, it may l)e due to a common origin from the ectoderm, 



4. Alimcntanj Canal. 



The alimentary canal of D. conkUni does not differ in its essential 

 features from that described for other members of the group, and 

 resembles very closely that of D. apatris and D. gyrocUiatus. On the 

 ventral side of the head is the mouth opening, which is triradiate or 

 Y-shaped . the vertical limb of the Y being directed caudad. The latter 

 is not confined to the head segment alone, but extends backward into- 

 the first segment of the trunk as far as its middle region (see text fig. I 

 and fig. 2.3). Korschelt (1S82) has described a similar condition in D. 

 apatris, the mouth in this species extending back from the head into^ 

 the short segment-like piece which lies between the head and the first 

 trunk segment. In Schmidt's drawing (1856) of D. gyrocUiatus the 

 mouth is represented as confined exclusively to the head, but in another 

 of the same species published by Meyer (1886) the relation of the 

 mouth to the head and trunk is shown to be the same as that just 

 described for D. conklini. The possible significance of this relation 

 will be discussed later. 



The mouth leads dorsad directly into the oesophagus; caudad it 

 opens into the cavity containing the proboscis (fig. 23), an organ com- 

 mon to all or nearly all of the members of this group. Forming the 

 dorsal wall of the proboscis cavity and separating it from the oesophagus 

 is a crescentic fold extending across the posterior wall of the oesophagus 

 and partially closing its lumen; the two lateral halves of this are called 

 by Harmer (1889a) "the inner lips" (figs. 4 and 23, i.l.), in contra- 

 distinction to "the outer lips" {o.l.) which are formed by the union of 

 the walls of the body and oesophagus. From the inner lips the oesopha- 

 gus ascends, curving slightly backward, to the dorsal body wall, where 

 it bends sharply to the rear and, pursuing a horizontal course for a 

 short distance, reaches the stomach. This it enters at a point consider- 

 ably dorsad of the mid-level. The lumen of the oesophagus in its 

 ascending portion is scarcely more than a cleft, being very narrow 

 in its transverse diameter, although long in an antero-posterior direc- 

 tion. In its anterior portion, however, next to the wall of the esopha- 

 gus, the lumen widens out suddenly, forming here a small open channel. 

 The narrow portion of the oesophageal lumen answers to that limb or 

 radius of the Y-shaped mouth which is directed caudad, the open 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



channel to the anterior two Umbs. At the upper end of the ascending 

 ilmb the lumen gradually becomes circular in section, and remains so 

 for the remainder of its course. In D. gyrociliatus Schmidt (1857), 

 and in D. apatris Korschelt (1882), have each described a proven- 

 triculus (Vormagen), which is simply an enlargement of the horizontal 

 limb of the oesophagus. In isolated individuals of D. conklini there is 

 an indication of such a structure in a slight dilation of this portion of 

 the oesophagus, but this dilation is apparently not permanent, but 

 merely temporary. 



The cells which form the walls of the oesophagus are relatively large, 

 and very similar, except in their size, to those of the body wall. Cor- 

 related with the shape of the oesophageal lumen in its ascending limb 

 is a marked difference between the height of the cells of the lateral 

 and the anterior and posterior walls, since the exterior of the cesophagus 

 in section preserves a regular oval or circular contour. Those which 

 form the anterior and posterior walls are low and cuboid, while those 

 composing its lateral walls are high, and, although rather irregular, 

 both in size and shape, may, on the whole, be considered columnar in 

 form (cf. figs. 3 and 23). The cells of the remainder of the oesophagus 

 are fairly regular both in form and size, usually cuboid, arranged in a 

 single layer. All of the oesophageal cells are clothed with a thin 

 cuticle, a continuation of that covering the body, and also bear long 

 cilia. These spring from distinct basal knobs, which form a uniform 

 layer a short distance below the cuticle, a narrow subcuticular layer 

 intervening. 



In many individuals a large number of the nuclei of the oesophageal 

 wall are undergoing a process of degeneration, some of the stages being 

 represented in figs. 31 and 32. The various stages of this process have 

 not been carefully studied, but it is evident that bound up with this 

 process, possibly resulting from it, is the expulsion of the cell from its 

 epithelium. Such a cell is shown in fig. 31. Two possible explanations 

 of this phenomenon present themselves. The function of the cells may 

 be that of secretion, and their degeneration and expulsion the result 

 of old age, like the "cellules deferment" of the mid-intestine of Lagis 

 koreni, described by Brasil (1904). On the other hand the degenera- 

 tion and expulsion of these cells may have for its purpose the libera- 

 tion of the cell contents, which have acquired digestive properties, in 

 the lumen of the oesophagus. This would then be an example of 

 holocrine secretion (Ranvier). 



Closely connected with the oesophagus is an organ which is common 

 to all members of this group, and variously termed "proboscis," 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



"muscular appendage," "Pharanx," and "Pliarangealtasche" by 

 different authors. On account of its brevity and definiteness I prefer 

 to use the earlier one of "proboscis" ("trompe," Hallez; "Riissel/' 

 Korschelt). The proboscis of D. conklini lies just behind the mouth, 

 and in side view presents a reniform outline, its concave surface 

 directed forward and applied to the posterior wall of the ascending 

 limb of the oesophagus (fig. 23). In cross section (figs. 4, 5, and 23, pro. 1 

 and jyro. 2, and fig. 30) it is elliptical, the long axis of the ellipse lying 

 transversely. The greater portion of this organ lies within the body 

 cavity between the two limbs of the oesophagus, and practically filling 

 up this space. The anterior and more pointed end of the proboscis 

 {-pro. 1) projects into the pocket-like cavity opening between the inner 

 and outer lips, and is covered by a reflection of the cuticle which lines 

 the cavity. This portion of the proboscis also differs histologically 

 from the remainder, being composed of cells substantially similar to 

 those of the oesophageal wall, but slightly darker and less distinctly 

 granular, which pass over, on the dorsal side, into those forming the 

 inner lips, as shown in fig. 23. Beneath the fold of cuticle which con- 

 nects the proboscis with the outer lips, in the same figure (23), may be 

 seen a network of protoplasm which finally unites with the epithelium 

 of the outer lips (o.Z.). This network encloses a nucleus, in the section 

 figured, and is, together with the tip of the proboscis, as well as the 

 inner lips {i.l.), merely a continuation of the epithelium forming the 

 oesophageal wall. Laterad of the midline this epithelium is clearly 

 seen to be continuous over the whole of the pocket, from the upper 

 lips to the posterior margin of the mouth. This continuity of the 

 oesophageal epithelium is still more plainh^ seen in D. tcBniatus (Harmer, 

 1889), and in D. vorticoides, as seen in the figures of Schimkewitsch 

 (1895). In both these forms it passes unbroken over the proboscis 

 to the posterior border of the mouth. This is especially well seen in 

 Schimkewitsch (Taf. VI, fig. 37). The remainder of the proboscis, that 

 is, all of the organ behind the pointed tip, presents a histological 

 structure which is extremely curious. This peculiarity of structure 

 has been either entirely misunderstood by previous ^mters or passed 

 over with scant notice. A careful study of sections shows that the 

 part in question, constituting the major portion of the proboscis, is 

 divided into about thirty narrow chambers by as many transverse 

 cuticular partitions (fig. 23, fro. 2), regularly placed from one to three 

 micra apart. These partitions bear on each of their two surfaces a 

 single layer of slender fibrillse, of uniform diameter, and having the 

 same general appearance and staining reaction as muscle fibres (figs. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



4, 5 and 23, pro. 2). The fibrillffi in each layer are parallel to one 

 another, and accurately spaced about l.b p. apart, running diagonally 

 from one side to the other of the proboscis, at an angle of approxi- 

 mately 45 degrees to the horizontal plane. The fibrilke on opposite 

 sides of the same partition, however, are not parallel, but, while inter- 

 secting the horizontal plane at the same angle, the fibrillse of one layer 

 cross those of the other at right angles. Thus it follows that only the 

 fibres of alternating layers are parallel, while those of any two con- 

 secutive layers run at right angles to one another. As a result of this 

 arrangement, in cross sections through the proboscis, in which two 

 layers of fibrillse are included, these latter, being seen simultaneously, 

 create the appearance of a lattice work, which is very regular whenever 

 the section is parallel to the partitions (fig. 30). The spaces between 

 the partitions are filled with a pale and vacuolated cytoplasm, near the 

 centre of which is a much flattened nucleus, with a large karyosome. 

 The greater portion of the proboscis is thus composed of a series of disk- 

 like cells, placed like coins in a pile, and separated by cuticular parti- 

 tions. Near the centre of each is a nucleus, while each of its faces bears 

 a layer of fibrillse. This peculiar and somewhat complex structure 

 demands an explanation, but it must be confessed that I have none 

 to offer, based on my own observations, inasmuch as living material 

 has been inaccessible to me since the necessity of its study in regard 

 to the point in question became apparent. Some of the observations 

 of Korschelt (1882), made on D. apatris, however, bear on this point. 

 This investigator described and figured the two portions of the pro- 

 boscis, but interpreted the striated appearance of the hinder portion 

 as produced by circular muscles. He then proceeds to say: "Die 

 ganze Riissel strekt sich dabei und verlangt sich durch Contraction der 

 Ringmuskeln." In speaking of the degree of extension of the pro- 

 boscis he states that "seine Vorderende bis in die gegend der Augen 

 vorgeschnellt werden. ' ' So great a degree of extension could hardly be 

 accomplished by the action of extrinsic muscles alone. ^loreover, the 

 diagonal fibrillse by their contraction would produce the same me- 

 chanical effect as circular muscles, viz., an extension of the proboscis 

 brought about by a lessening of its diameter. In view of this fact, and 

 of the observations of Korschelt, it may, I think, be permissible to 

 assume, provisionally at least, that the function of the diagonal fibrils 

 of the proboscis is the extension of that organ. 



In addition to the intrinsic musculature the proboscis of D. conklini 

 is also provided with a set of extrinsic muscles. These are eight in 

 number, arranged in four pairs: protractors, flexors, retractors, and 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



levators. These are composed of but one or two fibres apiece. The 

 first of these muscles, tlie protractors (fifj. 5. pro.pr.), lie close together 

 near the midline, beneath the proboscis. They are attached to the 

 ventral body wall, just inside of the attachment of the median ventral 

 lonfjitudinal muscles. From here they pass directly backwards, and 

 arc inserted on the ventral side of the proboscis about midway of 

 its length. At their attachment and insertion these, as well as the 

 other proboscis muscles, display the brushlike tufts, formed by 

 division of the fibrils, that were observed in the case of the trunk mus- 

 cles. The second pair, the fl.exors (fig. 4, pro.f.), join together the 

 two ends of the proboscis, passing over its convex anterior face. The 

 retractors (fig. 4, pro.r.) are attached to the ventro-lateral portion 

 of the horizontal limb of the oesophagus, above the proboscis, and 

 descend to their insertion in its anterior portion. The levators are 

 attached to the lateral body wall and inserted on the sides of the 

 proboscis, near its middle. 



The stomach is a cylindrical or l^arrel-shaped organ, occupying the 

 body cavity from the anterior limits of the third trunk segment to the 

 middle of the fourth. These two segments, it will be remembered, 

 far exceed the others both in length and diameter, so that the stomach 

 is therefore a relatively large organ, its length being nearly one-half 

 that of the trunk. Its diameter approaches that of the body cavity 

 of the segments in which it lies; the space that remains between the 

 stomach and body wall being reduced to a narrow cleft. The anterior 

 end of the stomach is more or less distinctly truncate; its posterior 

 end, on the other hand, is conical, tapering to join the intestine. This 

 jimction, like that with the oesophagus, is dorsal to the median axis. 



The stomach wall (figs. 6 and 35) is from 11 // to 30 /f in thickness, 

 and composed of a uniform layer of cuboid or low columnar cells, 

 whose inner ends bear long cilia. Each cell displays at its central end 

 a shallow layer of homogeneous protoplasm, staining deeply in iron- 

 hajmatoxylin after fixation b}' sublimate, less densely after Flemming's 

 mixture; just below this layer are the close-set basal knobs of the cilia. 

 The body of the cell consists of dark staining and much vacuolated 

 cytoplasm, within which, usually near the base of the cell, is an ovoid 

 or spherical nucleus, provided with the usual karyosome. The 

 cytoplasm of the cells of the stomach presents a somewhat varied 

 appearance, according to the fixative employed. Sections cut from 

 material fixed in corrosive sublimate (fig. 6) show the cytoplasm much 

 vacuolated, indeed so much so that the protoplasm is reduced to 

 scarcely more than a coarse and densely staining reticulum. Within 




lis PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



the meshes of this reticukmi may be discerned, moreover, pale yellow, 

 somewhat refractive granules. In material fixed in Flemming's 

 fluid (fig. 35) the picture is strikingly different. The cytoplasm pre- 

 sents the same vacuolated appearance, but here each vacuole constantly 

 encloses a yellowish-brown spherule; while in many individuals the 

 cells moreoA'er contain man}^ black-stained inclusions of the most 

 varied shapes, some of which are shown in fig. 35. That these latter are 

 fatty in their nature is indicated b}^ the fact that they are visible only 

 in material fixed with a mixture containing osmic acid, and also by 

 their intense blackness. The yellowish contents of the vacuoles, 

 whether appearing as pale granules or as spherules, is doubtless only 

 the precipitate of the fluid contained in them during life. 



The above description applies to the majority of the cells which make 

 up the stomach wall. In addition to these, and scattered among them 

 in considerable number, are unicellular glands (fig. 6, g.gl., and fig. 34). 

 These stain more deeply than their neighbors, being especially dark at 

 their bases. Their cytoplasm is not visibly vacuolated, and presents a 

 granular appearance. In the example shown in fig. 34 a portion of the 

 cytoplasm at the central end of the cell is seen to have been trans- 

 formed into a coarsely granular secretion, which is escaping into the 

 lumen of the stomach through a break in the cell wall. These cells 

 have evidently a digestive function. Another peculiar structure was 

 also freciuently noted, which may be considered as having to do with 

 the digestive functions, although this is not certain. Embedded in the 

 stomach wall of many individuals there were frequently observed 

 large spherules, whose diameter was approximately one-half of the 

 thickness of the stomach wall, and which possessed a staining reaction 

 similar to that of the surrounding cells — although perhaps a trifle 

 darker — and having a homogeneous appearance (fig. 33). Contained 

 within this spherule there appears constantly a spherical mass of 

 chromatic substance, approaching in size and appearance the nucleolus 

 of the surrounding cells. In addition there is also scattered through 

 the spherule tiny granules of chromatic material. In close contact 

 with the spherical body is a cap-shaped nucleus, ??. That this close 

 association with a nucleus is not accidental is indicated by the fact that 

 it was found in ten successive instances. The whole structure — the 

 spherical body with its chromatic enclosm'es, its homogeneous appear- 

 ance, and its close contiguity to a true nucleus — closely resembles the 

 figures given by Brasil (1904) of the "grosses boules hyalin" found in 

 the mid-intestine of Lagis koreni, and which are concerned with the 

 degeneration of the cells in which they occur. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



The intestine (fig^5. 7 and 8, int.) takes its rise from the posterior 

 portion of the stomach, dorsad of the median axis of the animal, whence 

 it runs caudad to the anus in a nearly straight course, with but a slight 

 sigmoid flexure. Like the stomach and oesophagus, it is lined through- 

 out its course with long cilia. The anus, as already described, opens 

 at the posterior termination of the trunk, just dorsad of the caudal 

 process. The outer diameter of the intestine in its middle portion 

 is about one-half of that of the stomach, but is contracted both at its 

 junction with the stomach and at the anus. The intestinal wall is 

 approximately 3 /.i in thickness and composed of a single layer of cells 

 which vary much in form, from a flattened squamous type to the 

 cubical. This irregularity in the form of the constituent cells of the 

 intestinal wall is associated with an irregularity in the contour of its 

 inner surface, the latter being raised into numerous longitudinal ridges 

 rather irregularly arranged, most numerous and attaining their gi*eat- 

 est height midway between stomach and anus, and disappearing near 

 the two latter points. The cells themselves present the same cyto- 

 logical characters as those of the oesophagus, namely, a thin cuticle, a 

 narrow subcuticular border, a layer of end knobs, from which arise 

 the long cilia, and a clear and transparent cytoplasm, enclosing an 

 ovoid nucleus with a karyosome. 



The musculature of the alimentary canal is very slight, aside from 

 that of the proboscis and the few fibres which accompan}^ the preoral 

 transverse commissure. The latter are to be reckoned with those of 

 the alimentary canal, since they serve to draw together the lateral 

 halves of the mouth. No traces were found of the radiall}' arranged 

 muscles about the mouth described by Korschelt (1882). The largest 

 and most evident muscles are comprised in two small groups, one on 

 either side of the A-ertical limb of the oesophagus, passing from its 

 lateral walls to the body wall on either side (fig. 3, (rs.m.). These 

 serve, as do similar muscles in annelids and other forms, to dilate the 

 oesophagus. A iew muscle fibres encircle the oesophagus at irregular 

 intervals, and are only visible in longitudinal sections, where they 

 appear as black points on the outer surface of the oesophageal wall. 

 Some of these are represented in fig. 23. It is possible that such 

 fibres are present also on the stomach and intestines, but I have not 

 been able to satisfy myself of their presence. There is however, 

 encircling the posterior end of the intestine a very short distance 

 anterior to the anus, a muscle composed of one fibre, which thus 

 serves as a sphincter ani (fig. 8, int.m.). 



The glands occurring in the epithelium of the alimentary canal have 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



already been mentioned. There remains to be described the "salivary 

 glands" (Speicheldriisen, O. S. Schmidt), and a set of huge glands which 

 I have termed "cephalic glands." The description of these latter 

 glands is brought into this section not so much because of their hypo- 

 thetical relation to the digestive system, as for the sake of convenience. 



The salivary glands (fig. 5, s.gl.) are similar to those of D. gyrociliatus 

 (Schmidt, 1856; Repiachoff, 1886) and D. apatris (Korschelt, 1882). 

 They consist of two groups of large unicellular glands, each group num- 

 bering in the neighborhood of a dozen cells, situated laterad to the 

 oesophagus, in the angle formed by the junction of the latter with the 

 stomach, and forming an ovoid or pyriform mass. The cytoplasm of 

 these gland cells stains from a brownish yellow to a deep black in iron- 

 hsematoxylin, and has a homogeneous, compact appearance, but 

 frequently encloses vacuoles of a lighter tint. The nuclei are spherical 

 and contain large nucleoli. From each cell proceeds a slender duct, 

 which passes along each side of the horizontal limb of the oesophagus, 

 in contact with it, the ducts of each side uniting to form a bundle (fig. 

 4, s.gl.d.). Arriving at the ascending limb of the oesophagus, each 

 bundle splits up into its component ducts. These enter the cesophagus, 

 penetrating between the cells of its lateral and posterior walls, each at 

 a different point, and open into its lumen (fig. 3, s.gl.d.). In D. 

 apatris these glands are said by Korschelt to open between the oesopha- 

 gus and proventriculus. In D. gigas (Weldon, 1886) gland cells are 

 found lying outside of the pharangeal (oesophageal) wall, while similar 

 glands lie at the base of the hypodermis forming the outer lips. Har- 

 mer (1889a) describes "racemose" salivary glands opening into the 

 anterior division of the oesophagus. Schimkewitsch (1895) says of the 

 salivary glands of D. vorticoides: "sie offnensich mit einigen Blindeln 

 der ganzen Osophagus entlang seitlich und naher zum Rueken." He 

 also speaks of them as "mit Mucin erfiillt." It is quite evident that 

 in D. conklini the contents of these glands is not mucin, although 

 staining densely in hsematoxylin, for in all of my preparations which 

 were stained in Meyer's mucicarmine, a specific mucin stain, not one 

 of these glands is tinged with it in the slightest degree, while the 

 hypodermal mucous glands are all deeply colored. 



The cephalic, like the salivary glands, form two groups or complexes 

 of large unicellular glands. These are situated in the dorsalmost 

 portion of the head cavity, just in front of the vertical limb of the 

 oesophagus, each group symmetrically disposed a short distance on 

 either side of the midline (see text fig. Ill, A. and B). Each gland 

 cell, of which each group contains three to five, is pyriform in shape 




1907.] NATUUAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



(fig. 22), with the smaller end tliix'ctcd downwanls, and continued as 

 a very slender duct. The ducts from each group unite to form a 

 bundle (text fig. III. A, and fig. 20. c.gl.d.). Each of these passes 

 downward and slightly forward, penetrating in their course the lateral 

 portions of the brain. On meeting the ventral hypodermis the ducts 

 of each side diverge, most of them turning inwards (mesiad), and, 

 penetrating the hypodermis, open on the ventral surface; the mouths 

 of the ducts forming a line transverse to the long axis of the animal, 

 just posterior to the anterior end of the head. Just before its termina- 

 tion, each duct displays a bulbous enlargement, forming a small 

 reservoir. The cephalic gland cells much resemble those of the salivary 

 glands in their cytological characters and staining reaction. Like 

 the latter, the protoplasm of the cephalic glands absorbs many chro- 

 matin stains with avidity, being stained with especial intensity in 

 Delafield's hiematoxylin and in carmine, while iniaffected by muci- 

 carmine. "With iron-hajmatoxylin it is usually colored only a dark 

 gray. In certain cases, as in the one represented in fig. 22, intracellular 

 spaces, which previously had evidently been occupied by secretion, 

 were present in the cytoplasm. 



Glands corresponding to the cephalic glands have been described 

 only in the account given by Schimkewitsch (1895) of D. metameroides, 

 although this author suggests their occurrence in D. keniatus, inferring 

 this from Harmer's (1889a) description and figures of the brain. 



The function of the cephalic glands is problematical. Their situa- 

 tion, just anterior to the preoral field of cilia which serves to sweep 

 food particles into the mouth, suggests that they may perform a 

 digestive function. Whether this is the case or not, their great size 

 indicates that their function must be an important one in the economy 

 of the animal. 



5. Excretory Organs. 



Nephridia. — Dinophilus conklini possesses five pairs of nephridia, 

 metamerically arranged and corresponding to the five posterior trunk 

 segments. The first of the five pairs differs from the others in that its 

 structure is relatively much more complex; for that reason it will be 

 more convenient to defer the consideration of this pair to the last, and 

 to describe first the simpler structure of the posterior four pairs. 

 These are very tenuous and ill defined in structure, in fact so much so 

 that for a long time I failed to recognize them as definite organs, and 

 mistook them for mere strands of mesenchymatous or connective tissue . 

 In general structure, however, they were found to correspond closely 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



to the nephridia of D. gyrociliatus, as figured by Meyer in 1886. Each 

 nephridium is a thin-walled tube, ciliated throughout, and composed of 

 some four to six cells. Throughout its length it adheres closely to the 

 body wall, except in the case of the nephridia of the fifth pair, which 

 float more or less freely in the body cavity. The course of each 

 nephridium is winding, but its general direction is transverse to the 

 long axis of the body, the morphological inner or central end being 

 dorsal, the outer ventral. The lumen is from 1-2 u. in diameter, and 

 widest near the middle of its course. At the central (dorsal) end (fig. 

 24) of each nephridium it gradually becomes narrower, and finally 

 terminates blindly in a flat mass of granular protoplasm, containing, 

 besides one or two nuclei, gi'eenish refringent bodies, irregularly ovoid 

 in shape. Goodrich (1897) has described similar bodies in the ne- 

 phridia of Sternaspis. Toward the peripheral (ventral) extremity of the 

 nephridium, which usually lies just laterad of the ventral nerve cords, 

 the lumen again slightly decreases in calibre. The precise point where 

 the external opening is situated could in no case be determined with 

 certainty, although prolonged and careful search was made with the 

 highest powers at my command. This difficulty is caused partly by 

 the small size and lack of definiteness of the parts concerned, and also 

 by the fact that it is only possible to study the nephridia in sections, 

 since the opacity of the living animal and the close proximity of the 

 ciliated walls of the alimentary canal make a study of the nephridia 

 diu-ing life extremely difficult. It is, however, doubtless true also that 

 the external openings are usually closed, and open for discharge only 

 at intervals, as happens in the nephridia of some annelids, e.g., J^losoma. 

 Shearer (1906) finds that each of the ducts of the nephridia of D. tcenia- 

 tus terminates in a vacuole in the ventral hypodermis, but that no 

 external opening could be demonstrated. 



The nephridia forming the first pair are, as already stated, relatively 

 complex, and are also much larger, more definite in structure, and 

 more readily observed. Nevertheless, the tracing out of the entire 

 course of these nephridia is by no means a simple task, and has been 

 accomplished solely by reconstructions from sections, one of which 

 is shown in text fig. IV, representing the left anterior nephridimn, 

 as viewed from the interior of the body of the animal. The morpho- 

 logical central end (text fig. IV, figs. 25a and 26a, c.e.n.) begins as a 

 slender strand of protoplasm, attached to the lateral wall of the first 

 segment. As it passes caudad it widens out, and in the second trunk 

 segment becomes triangular in shape, thin at its edges, the external 

 edge attached to the body wall and to neighboring parts of the nephri- 




1907 



NATURAL SCIEN-CES OF nilLADELPHIA. 



123 



dium, the inner or mesial edge frequently extending to meet and fuse 

 with its fellow of the opposite side. One or two nuclei are seen to lie 

 in this portion of the nephriilium. Within its substance, near its ectal 

 margin, beginning near the anterior limit of the second trunk segment 

 and running parallel to the long axis of the body, is a canal, the inner 

 canal of the nepliiidium (text fig. IV, figs. 25 and 26, i.c.n.), its anterior 

 end conical and terminating blindly in the protoplasm. This canal is 

 lined with long cilia directed caudad, and has a maximum calibre of 



Fig. IV. — Nephridinm of the first pair, belonging to the left side, as seen from 

 the interior of the body. Reconstructed from sections. X 1053. For ex- 

 planation of reference letters see Explanation of Plates. 



about 3 fi. Xear the middle of the second segment the inner canal 

 contracts rather suddenly to about one-third or one-fourth of its former 

 diameter, and sends off a slender connecting branch to the lateral 

 glandular portion of the nephridium (text fig. IV, figs. 2oc-e, and fig. 

 26, l.g.n.). The latter is a large flat biscuit-shaped mass of protoplasm, 

 irregularly lobed or incised, and pressed closely against the lateral 

 body wall. On its mesial side it is in contact with the salivary gland 

 (s.gl.). Within the lateral glandular portion are three or four large 

 spherical nuclei, containing very large karyosomes. No cell boundaries 

 are visible. The cytoplasm has a coarsely granular appearance and 

 stains very densely. The whole mass is permeated throughout by a 




124 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



system of ramifying intracellular spaces or canals, forming a veritable 

 labyrinth. These canals are filled with a pale staining granular sub- 

 stance, probably the precipitate of a fluid. 



After sending ofT its branch to the lateral glandular portion of the 

 nephridium, the inner canal continues backward a short distance, its 

 diameter meanwhile diminishing to ca. 0.5 m, then bends almost directly 

 downward, widening as it does so, and passes into the transverse canal 

 (text fig. IV, figs. 25e and 26a, t.c.n.). The length of the latter is about 

 the same as that of the inner canal, but its diameter is much less, 

 probably in most cases not exceeding a micron. Owing to its minute- 

 ness it is difficult to determine whether it is furnished with cilia or not, 

 but its appearance in fig. 25e seems to indicate that it contains at least 

 a single cilium or flagellum. The transverse canal terminates in the 

 antero-lateral portion of the ventral glandular portion of the nephridium 

 (text fig. lY, figs. 25c?, 25e, and 26, v.g.n.). This body is very similar 

 to the lateral glandular portion, and will therefore require no further 

 description. It lies just above the lateral nerve cord of that side, and 

 posterior to the middle of the second trunk segment, whereas the lateral 

 glandular portion is situated at precisely the middle of the segment. 



The transverse canal serves to link together the two glandular por- 

 tions of the nephridia, but these are further connected by a large 

 ciliated canal, the diagonal canal (text fig. IX, figs. 256, 25c, and 26, 

 d.c.n.), which arises at the anterior end of the lateral glandular portion 

 and passes diagonally backward to the anterior end of the ventral 

 glandular portion. It enters the latter near the termination of the 

 transverse canal; the two canals in fact being connected with one 

 another at this point. 



The duct of the nephridium springs from the ventral glandular 

 portion at the point where the latter is connected with the transverse 

 and diagonal canals (text fig. IV, figs. 25a-c, d.n.). The duct is here 

 relatively large, but narrows rapidly as it passes cephalad. A short 

 distance from its point of origin it dips downward and becomes buried 

 in the substance of the body wall laterad of the ventral nerve cords, and 

 is recognizable in sections only as a brownish ovoid area in the hypo- 

 dermis (fig. 5, d.n.). It thus pursues a direction cephalad and slightly 

 mesiad until it reaches the middle of the first trunk segment. Here 

 it bends sharply inward (mesiad), widening considerably at the same 

 time, and opens to the exterior at the postero-lateral border of the 

 mouth (text fig. IV). The duct is similar in structure to that of 

 unicellular glands, such as the salivary gland of Dinophilus, and 

 appears to be merel^^ a process of one of the cells of the ventral glandu 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



lar portion, the coll wall covering this process serving as the walls of the 

 iluct. This duct, as indicated above, is filled with a brownish excre- 

 tion. 



Embeddetl within the cytoplasm which surround the diagonal and 

 transverse canals are found greenish refringent bodies (figs. 25c, 25d, 

 and 26ft, r.h.) of an irregular ovoid shape, and similar in general ap- 

 pearance to those seen in the nephridia of the posterior segments. In 

 the nephridium represented in text fig. IV and figs. 25c and 2od there 

 are two of these, of nearly the same size. In the nephridium repre- 

 sented in figs. 26a and 266 there are also two subequal refringent bodies, 

 and in addition a denseh^ staining inclusion. 



From the foregoing description it is seen that in the first pair of 

 nephridia of Dinophilus conklini we have to do with relatively complex 

 and highly differentiated structures. A contemplation of text fig. 

 R' will show, however, that these nephridia are derived from simple 

 nephridia, of the type termed by Hatschek (1888) "protonephridia," 

 like those of the four succeeding pairs, by a growth and differentiation 

 of their component cells, chiefly at two points, namely, those occupied 

 by the glandular bodies. The blind ciliated anterior end is clearly to 

 be recognized as the inner or central end of the simple nephridium, 

 and the canalar plexuses, with their connecting transverse and oblique 

 canals, as its middle part. Obviously one of these connecting canals is 

 of secondary origin and one of primary, corresponding to the original 

 lumen of the primitive nephridium. The size of the diagonal canal, 

 and the fact that its connection with the lateral glandular portion is 

 some distance removed from the union of the latter with the inner 

 canal, speaks in favor of its being the representative of the primitive 

 hmien; the transverse canal would then have to be considered as a 

 sort of short cut for the products of excretion from both the inner 

 canal and the lateral glandular portion of the nephridium. The 

 terminal duct has also evidently undergone modification in that its 

 external opening has been shifted forward to the edge of the mouth. 



The function of the glandular bodies with, the contained canalar 

 plexuses can only be guessed at. It is at least certain that it is one 

 not performed by the other nephridia. That this function is truly of a 

 glandular nature is indicated by the fact that the ducts are always 

 filled by a homogeneous substance of a brownish color, much resembling 

 mucus in appearance. 



The highly differentiated groups of the OUgochceta and Hirudinea 

 alone appear to exhibit conditions comparable to those seen in the 

 anterior pair of nephridia of Dinophilus conklini. A breaking up of the 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



canal to form a plexus is found in the median portion of the nephridium 

 of the leech (Graf. 1898), and also in the Enchytrmcke (Bolsius, 1892) 

 and the Discodrilidce (Moore, 1897). Certain nephridia of some mem- 

 bers of the Naidomorpha, Lumbriculidce (Vejdovsky, 1884), and Tubi- 

 ficidcc (Stole, 1888) possess on that part of the nephridium just follow- 

 ing the funnel an oval swelling of a brown color, and within which the 

 nephridial lumen forms a network. In the case of Nais, however, this 

 swelling appears to consist of but a single cell. 



Shearer (1906) has recently made a detailed study of the nephridia 

 of D. tceniatus. He finds that in their general form and arrangement 

 they correspond to the description given by Harmer (1889a). He 

 adds, however, the important fact that the inner end of each nephrid- 

 ium bears a large number of the curious structures discovered by 

 Goodrich, and called by him "solenocytes" (1898). The cilia of the 

 solenocytes traverse the length of the nephridium, giving it the ap- 

 pearance of being lined with cilia. As to the presence or absence of 

 these structures in the posterior four pairs of nephridia of D. conklini, 

 I am not able to decide with the material at hand. It seems, however, 

 quite certain that solenocytes are not present in the nephridia of the 

 first pair. Here the images afforded by my material are quite clear, 

 the finer structure in the most favorable instances being quite well 

 preserved, and affording a good basis for decision. If present at all 

 the solenocytes should be found cephalad of what I have termed the 

 ''anterior canal," and within the strand of protoplasm in which this 

 canal runs (see fig. 26a and text fig. IV). This portion of the pro- 

 toplasmic strand, however, appears uniform in structure, and con- 

 tains nothing which would indicate the presence of solenocytes. 



Amoeboid Cells. — In many series of sections there appear large cells 

 of irregular form, situated in the cavity of the head and in the body 

 cavity of the neck region, dorsad and laterad to the anterior portion 

 of the oesophagus (figs. 3 and 4, am.c). Their cytoplasm is coarsely 

 granular in appearance, and is frequently seen to contain densely 

 staining inclusions of various shapes and frequently of large size. 

 The nuclei of these cells are vesicular and contain but little chromatin, 

 outside of the large spherical karyosome. In at least one instance a 

 number of these cells were found in an evident state of degeneration, 

 some within the cavity of the head, others buried in its ventral hypoder- 

 mis. This latter circumstance, together with the varying location 

 of these cells within the limits indicated, and the fact that their 

 shape conforms to the outline of the adjacent tissues, strongly indicates 

 that their nature is amoeboid. Their origin is obscure; but their close 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



resemblance in size ami stainiiif!; reaction to many of the cells compos- 

 ing the lateral walls of the ascending liml) of the oesophagus, in addition 

 to the fact that, in those individuals in which these amoeboid cells 

 occur, they arc always found in the neck region in a normal condition, 

 seems to point to the oesophagus as their place of origin. 



The function of these cells is somewhat problematical. Their 

 amceboid and phagocyte-like api:)earance, the frequent occurrence of 

 inclusions, and their degeneration within the ectoderm near the 

 exterior, point strongly to the conclusion that they perform the func- 

 tion of phagocytes. This conclusion attains a considerable degi'ee of 

 jirobability in the light of the researches of Schaeppi (1894) and Graf 

 (1898) on polychsetous annelids and leeches respectively. In repre- 

 sentatives of both these groups there are found in the body cavity 

 amoeboid cells ("Chlorogogen," "Excretophores"), whose function is 

 to ingest and remove waste matters. Moreover, Graf found that in 

 the leech these cells sometimes degenerated in the epidermis. There 

 seems, therefore, much reason to believe that the amoeboid cells in 

 Dinophilus are also "excretophores." 



6. Sex Organs. 



Ovary. — The ovary in its position and general structure resembles 

 that of Dinophilus apatris and Dinophilus gyrociliatus, as described by 

 Korschelt (1882) and Repiachoff (1886) respectively. It lies on the 

 ventral side of the alimentary canal, occupying the concavity formed 

 by the junction of the stomach and intestine, and commonly fills up 

 this space and crowds the intestine towards the dorsal side. The 

 ovary consists essentially of three parts: the oogonia; the oocytes; and 

 the peritoneal sac enveloping the whole. 



The oogonia form a pyriform mass of closely packed cells (fig. 21, 

 cog.), its smaller end directed caudad. The apex of the oogonial mass 

 is formed of the younger cells, wiiich are still in a state of multiplica- 

 tion. In fig. 21 a zone of dividing cells is seen extending across this 

 portion of the ovary. Beyond this zone the oogonia may be seen to 

 increase gradually in size toward the anterior end of the oogonial mass, 

 where the oogonia, having completed their growth, become oocytes. 

 The manner of formation of the large ova which are destined to form 

 the female individuals, by the fusion together of several oogonia, was 

 first noted by Schimkewitsch (1895), and has been more fully described 

 by Conklin (1906) for the form under discussion, and by von Malsen 

 (1906) for D. apatris, and will not be dwelt upon here. The cytoplasm 

 of the oogonia is finely granular, and stains more or less densely, 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



doubtless owing to the presei\ce of small yolk granules. The nuclei 

 possess the general character of those of the tissue cells, being vesic- 

 ular, and containing a large chromatin nucleolus. 



The oocytes, or ovarian eggs, constitute the greater part of the 

 ovary, and form a closely packed mass entirely filling up the remainder 

 of the space below the intestine, which lies close to the dorsal body 

 wall. The oogonial mass is commonly crowded to one side of the 

 oocytes, thus lying laterad and often somewhat ventrad of the latter. 

 In some cases, indeed, a large oocyte, apparently full grown, is found 

 in the posterior portion of the ovarian chamber, caudad of the oogonia. 

 The mature female ova are in the neighborhood of 100 n in diameter, 

 closely approximating that of the body of the parent. The diameter 

 of the ova destined to form males is much smaller, i.e., about 30 fx. 



The first maturation division, as least as far as the metaphase, occurs 

 within the ovary, and has been observed by both Conklin (1906) and 

 myself. \o\\ ]\Ialsen (1906) states that in one instance only did he 

 find maturation spindles within the ovarian chamber. It is curious 

 to note that in those preparations which showed the karyokinetic 

 figures, all of the mature oocytes appear to be dividing simviltaneously 

 and at the same rate, since all of the spindles were in the same phase, 

 namely, the metaphase. The probable explanation of this phenom- 

 enon is that, as in Ophryotrocha (Korschelt, 1903), the oocytes 

 remain at this stage of division until penetrated by the sperm. All of 

 these dividing ova displayed a well-marked peri-vitelline layer, which 

 stains strongly in Meyer's mucicarmine. This layer, however, does 

 not extend completely around the ova, but is seen onl}^ on their free 

 surfaces, its formation being in some way prevented by contact with 

 other ova. 



The peritoneal investment of the ovary consists of an extremely 

 delicate epithelium which encloses the oogonia and oocytes as in a bag, 

 and is attached posteriorly to the apex of the pyriform oogonial mass 

 (see figs. 7 and 21, per.). From the outer surface of the peritoneum 

 thin strands of protoplasm are here and there given off to the neighbor- 

 ing alimentary canal and body w'all. The existence of this epithelial 

 covering w-as for a long time a matter of much doubt in my mind, and 

 it is only after careful study of sections of the best preserved material 

 that I have arrived at the conclusion stated above. In some cases the 

 peritoneum is wtII marked and easily demonstrated, as in fig. 7; in 

 others, as in the section represented by fig. 21, the peritoneum is ex- 

 ceedingly tenuous. That it is a true epithelial layer is shown by the 

 presence in it of small nuclei. Von Malsen (1906) also observed this 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



layer, but saw only that i)orti()u of it which lios veiitrad of the ovary, 

 the dorsal portion beinii concealed by the close apposition of tho 

 ovary and the alimentary canal. l'\)r this reason he interprets it as 

 a portion of the splanchnopleure, api)arently assuming; with RepiacholT 

 (ISSG) the iiresence of a continuous i)eritoneal lininj;- throughout the 

 body cavity. The ovary would then, accordini;- to von Malsen, lie 

 outside of the ccrlom, between the alimentary canal and the peritoneum. 

 The presence of a definite peritoneal investment surrounding the 

 ovary of D. conklini is in accord with the observations of both Harmer 

 (1889a) and Schinikewitsch (1895). In the two forms investigated 

 by these authors — D. tcvmatas and J), vorticoidcs — the gonads consist 

 of long paired sacs, from the walls of which arise the sexual products. 

 These sacs, moreover, in D. vorticoidcs, according to the researches of 

 Schimkewitsch, arise from the paired mesoderm bands. There can, 



Fig. V. — Diagrams illustrating the reduction of the sex glands in DinopTiilus, 

 as represented by A, D. vorttcoides and tceniatus; B, D. gigas; C, D. conklini. 



therefore, be little doubt that the gonads with their enclosed cavities, 

 as^Meyer (1901) has also pointed out, are homologous with the peri- 

 toneum and coelom of the Annelida. 



It is evident, however, that, in the light of this interpretation, the 

 coelom of D. conklini is greatly reduced, as compared with those species 

 mentioned above. This reduction becomes more comprehensible 

 when the condition in D. gigas is taken into consideration. The sex 

 gland of this species is, according to Weldon (1886), Y-shaped, the 

 unpaired limb lying posterior, the two anterior limbs extendino- for- 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ward a short distance under the hinder portion of the stomach. Weldon 

 describes no peritoneal investment of the sex glands, it is true, but 

 this might easily have been overlooked, inasmuch as it is probably 

 very thin. Indeed, in the anterior portion of the testes of D. meta- 

 meroides, Schimkewitsch (1895) states that the peritoneum becomes 

 reduced to a mere memhrana propria. For this reason, and because 

 of the occurrence of a peritoneum enclosing the sex products in at 

 least two other species, it is not unwarrantable, to say the least, to 

 assume its presence in D. gigas. The condition obtaining in this species 

 would then be almost precisely intermediate between that found in 

 D. vorticoides and tccniatus, on the one hand, and D. conklini (and prob- 

 ably also apatris and gyrociliatus) on the other. In other words, there 

 has been within the Dinophilidce a progressive reduction in the shape 

 and extent of the sex glands, and also of the coelom, represented by the 

 cavity within them; this reduction beginning at their anterior ends, and 

 its stages exemplified by the three species named. These are repre- 

 sented diagrammatically by text figs, V, A, B, and C. In the first 

 stage, (A), represented by D. vorticoides and tceniatus, the sex glands 

 are paired, extend throughout the greater portion of the trunk, and 

 are united only at their posterior ends. In the second, (B), repre- 

 sented by D. gigas, the paired portions are much shortened, while 

 the unpaired median part, which joins the former, has increased some- 

 what in length. In the third and last stage, represented by D. conklini, 

 the lateral paired portions have disappeared altogether, leaving only 

 the posterior unpaired part. That the paired condition, represented 

 in A, is probably the more primitive one need scarcely be pointed out ; 

 the unpaired is therefore specialized. It is also to be noted in this 

 connection that those species possessing the unpaired sex gland are 

 also sexually dimorphic. 



In D. vorticoides, tceniatus, and gigas the reproductive cells appear 

 to be produced directly from the wall of the sex glands (coelomic 

 epithelium) by transformation of its cells. Moreover, the production 

 of germ cells appears not to be definitely localized, but to take place 

 throughout the length of the glands. The condition in D. conklini is 

 evidently quite different. Here a circumscribed portion of the coelomic 

 epithelium is, as in the higher Vermes, differentiated to form a well- 

 defined gonad, in the shape of the pyriform mass of oogonia. 



Korschelt (1882) was of the opinion that the germ cells arose in the 

 walls of the alimentary canal. Yon Malsen (1906) has recently thought 

 to have found confirmation of this view and has described and figured 

 the germ cells as arising in the ventral wall of the stomach, and migrat- 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



ing thence by amoeboid movement into the oogonial mass at some 

 distance from its posterior end. This is certainly an error and, I 

 believe, based on defective fixation. Von Malscn states that in his 

 studies on the oogenesis of Dinophilus he relied chiefly on sections 

 matle from material fixed in Kleinenberg's picro-sulphuric. This 

 fixative, as I have already stated in the section on tcchniciue, is unre- 

 liable, at least for the study of the morphology of Dinophilus conklini. 

 Sections made from material fixed in this fluid yield images which 

 could easily lead one to believe in a close connection between the 

 ovary and the alimentary canal, and at the outset I was myself inclined 

 to such a view. Better preserved material, however, has demonstrated 

 conclusively that no such close connection exists. Moreover, in D. 

 conklini the oogonial mass is commonly separated from the alimentary 

 canal by the large oocytes, thus effectively barring any communication 

 between the oogonia and the alimentary canal. 



A median generative pore — sperm duct or oviduct — situated on the 

 ventral side, near the posterior end of the body, has been seen in three 

 species of Dinophilus, namely, D. vorticoides (Schimkewitsch, 1895), 

 D. kcniatus (Harmer, lS89a), and D. apatris (Korschelt, 1882). In 

 the last-named species the oviduct was seen during life, but was not 

 found in preserved material. It is with regret I confess that so far I 

 have been unable to demonstrate an oviduct in D. conklini, although 

 a careful search for it has been made. That it exists there is scarcely 

 the slightest doubt. Weldon (1886) was also unable to discover the 

 genital opening in D. gigas, and has assumed that a rupture of the body 

 wall occurs on the maturing of the genital products, allowing the latter 

 to escape; this occurrence being accompanied by the degeneration and 

 death of the animals. Whether this be true of D. gigas or not, it is 

 probably not true of D. conklini — although this species, as does D. 

 gigas, rather suddenly disappears on the arrival of warm weather — 

 since von ^lalsen (1906) has shown that in D. apatris, a species very 

 similar to D. conklini, the egg-laying period is one of considerable 

 extent. 



7. Discussion and Conclusions. 



Metamerism. — In Dinophilus conklini, as in other members of the 

 gi'oup, there is a distinct and well-marked metamerism. This is 

 expressed by the body wall in its external divisions, its ciliated rings, 

 and its mucous glands; by the nervous system in its pairs of trunk 

 ganglia, and by the nephridia in their arrangement in five pairs. The 

 metamerism is that of the annelids, and expressed in the same terms. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



but with an important exception: in Dinophilus it is apparently not 

 manifested in the sex organs, the homologues of those organs and tissues 

 which are, in the annelids, the products of the mesoderm bands. 



The number of segments, as indicated by the body wall in its external 

 divisions and ciliated rings, does not agree with that indicated by the 

 other metamerically arranged parts. The former — the trunk segments 

 as delimited by constrictions and their ciliated bands — indicate six 

 trunk segments, while the latter, namely, the mucous glands, the nerve 

 ganglia and the nephridia, testify to only five. Examination of text 

 fig. Ill and fig. 1 will show that the segment not represented by ganglia 

 or mucous glands is the first postoral. It may be added that this 

 segment is also not represented by the nephridia, since, although the 

 first pair of nephridia do actually extend into this segment, the greater 

 part of these organs lie in the segment following, and obviously belong 

 to the latter. That division of the trunk, then, immediately following 

 the neck and bearing the first band of cilia is evidently not a true 

 metamere, but is to be interpreted as a minor annulus, a subdivision 

 of a metamere having occurred, as in all leeches and in some Oligochccta 

 and Polychcvta. The next succeeding annulus, the second, is clearly 

 the corresponding major annulus, and the two together compose the 

 first trunk metamere. The development of an additional annulus in 

 this region is probably to be traced to the demand for greater room on 

 the part of those structures which lie within the first trunk metamere, 

 namely, the proboscis, a relatively large organ, the first pair of ne- 

 phridia and the first pair of trunk ganglia; the two latter much exceed- 

 ing in size those of the succeeding segments. 



Five trunk metameres are also present in D. tccniatus (Harmer, 1889a) 

 and in D. vorticoides (Schimkewitsch, 1895), as indicated by the num- 

 ber of the trunk ganglia and of the nephridia. Meyer (1886) shows 

 five pairs of nephridia also in his figure of D. gyrociliatus; the number 

 of trunk ganglia, is, however, unknown, since the nervous system of 

 this species has so far not been carefully investigated. This species 

 (gyrociliatus), as judged by Meyer's figure, displays a condition pre- 

 cisely similar to that obtaining in D. conklini, since there apperas to 

 be present six trunk segments, in the second of which the first pair of 

 nephridia are situated. The first trunk metamere is therefore evi- 

 dently also composed of two annuli, of which the posterior is the major. 

 In D. vorticoides (Schimkewitsch, 1895) one of the trunk metameres 

 appears also to have been subdivided into annuli, since the trunk bears 

 twelve double rings of cilia. As to the particular metamere which has 

 .subdivided, it is impossible to conclude from Schimkewitsch's figures, 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



although it seems pr(jl)al)le that it is one of those in the posterior part 

 of the body. From the evidence at hand it is seen that four of the 

 nine species of Dinophilus are composed of six segments (metameres), 

 counting the head, and this raises the question as to whether this 

 mmiber is characteristic of the group; the answer to wlucli must neces- 

 sarily be found in further research. 



Cepholization. — Among the evidences of specialization exhibited 

 by Dinophilus conklini is a well-defined tendency to cejihalization on 

 the part of the nervous system and the nephridia. A glance at fig. 1 

 will serve to show that this is true of the nervous system, especially 

 as regards the number of nerve cells. That a like tendency is exhibited 

 by the nephridia also will be plain on considering the great size and 

 complexity of the first pair of nephridia as compared with the succeed- 

 ing four. 



Relationships. — The systematic position and affinities of Dinophilus 

 have been long debated, and is a cjuestion concerning which every one 

 who has investigated this form has expressed an opinion. In a pre- 

 vious paper on the embryology of Dinophilus (1904a), I have given a 

 brief historical sketch of the various views expressed by different 

 authors on this subject, so it need only to be referred to here. Broadly 

 speaking, these views may be divided into three classes, according as 

 they regard Dinophilus as most nearly related to the Turbellaria, to 

 the Rotatoria, or to the Annelida. 



In respect to the morphological evidence on which the first of the'^e 

 views is based, Lang (1884) has summed this up so concisely and com- 

 pletely that I cannot do better than to quote his words in full: 



"I believe that Korschelt^ is on the wrong track; there are no Tur- 

 bellaria with an anus, none with ciliated rings. The pharanx of Di- 

 nophilus has nothing in common with the pharanx of the Turbellaria. 

 None of the Turbellaria have a straight alimentary canal so much 

 differentiated. The sex organs are constructed differently in the two 

 groups; in the Turbellaria complicated ducts are always present. 

 The sexual dimorphism removes Dinophilus from the 'Turbellaria, as 

 well as the well-developed body cavity. I do not believe that, as 

 Korschelt supposes, the ova arise from the epithelium of the alimentary 

 canal. They indeed lie in the body cavity close to the alimentary 

 canal, but I am strongly of the opinion that a fine endothelium is here 

 present, from which they develoj). Ever^'oue knows how difficult 



* Lang here refers to Korschelt's earlier view (1SS2). Korschelt has since 

 expressed the opinion that Dhiophilus is closely allied to the annelids 




134 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEAIY OF [Feb., 



endothelium is to recognize. The distinction between Dinophilus and 

 the Turbellaria is much greater, if it is compared to the larvae of the 

 latter. Yet the resemblance should be greater if, as Korschelt sup- 

 poses, Dinophilus be a primitive Turbellarian form. ' ' 



The weight of the evidence furnished by our present knowledge of 

 the morphology and embryology of the annelids, as well as that of 

 Dinophilus, is, I think, heavily in favor of a close relationship of the 

 latter with the annelids. There is scarcely a character in the structure 

 of Dinophilus which is not held in corhmon with some member of that 

 group. The general external form, including the distribution of the 

 cilia and the caudal appendage, are found in several annelid larvae, 

 such as Harpochceta (Korschelt, 1893); the ciliated rings may persist to 

 maturity, as in Ophyrotrocha (Korschelt, 1893) and Nerilla (Perey- 

 aslawzewa, 1896), as well as in Protodrilus (Hatschek, 1880). The 

 metamerism is also like that of the annelids, expressed by the same 

 organs — with the exception of those arising from the mesoderm bands — 

 and developed in the same manner, as the investigations of Schim- 

 kewitsch (1895) and myself (1904a) have shown. The nephridia are 

 precisely like those seen in many annelid larvae. Moreover, Shearer 

 (1906) has recently found that the nephridia of D. tceniatus possess the 

 ■curious structures termed by Goodrich (1898) "solenocytes," and 

 found by him characteristic of many members of the Polychceta. The 

 type of the nervous system of Dinophilus is unquestionably the em- 

 bryonic annelid type; even its distinctive features, such as its epithelial 

 position and the wide separation of the two halves of the ventral cord , 

 are found not only in larval stages, but also in adult stages of several 

 members of the Annelida. The preoral commissure of D. conkMni 

 can also, I think, only be satisfactorily explained by deriving it from 

 the nerve ring of the trochophore larva. The alimentary canal is, in 

 its main features, strictly comparable to that of the annelids; while the 

 proboscis, in its general structure, is like that of many Polychceta, as, 

 for example, the Eunicidie (Lang, 1891). 



A possible relationship with the Rotatoria has been pointed out by 

 several investigators; of these probably Schimkewitsch (1895) has 

 stated the case for the rotifers most clearly. After a very fair pre- 

 sentation of the claims of Dinophilus to a place among the annelids, 

 he says : 



"Ohne Zweifel sind auch einige Ziige vorhanden, die Dinophilus 

 mit den Rotatorien verbinden: die furchung des Eies, die Anwesen- 

 heit des Schwanzanhanges, der mit dem Fusse der Rotatorien iiberein- 

 stimmt, der geschlechtliche Dimorphismus ; man muss auch gestehen, 




r.H)7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



(lass ini Uauc dos Xorvcnsystems uiul der Hauptmusculatur der Rota- 

 torieii die Tendenz zur Er\verl)un<i- der Metamerie l)enierkt warden 

 kann: bei Dinophilus abcr erstreckt sich diese Tendenz aucli auf das 

 Mesoderm und die Excretionsorgane. Aueh hci den Rotatorien 

 erscheinen, wic hei DinnpJiilus die Genitallu'ihlen als einzige Homologa 

 des Coelonis." 



According to this view the metamerism, as well as many other 

 annelidan features, would have to be regarded as having arisen inde- 

 pendently. From this standpoint Dinophilus would, so far as its 

 resemblance to annelids is concerned, be a good example of convergence. 

 In regard to the points of reseml)lance which Schimkewitsch has pointed 

 out : the segmentation of the egg has been shown to be strictly annelidan 

 in its type. The caudal appendage of Dinophilus much more closely 

 resembles that of some polytrochal annelid larvfp than the foot of the 

 Rotatoria. The sexual dimorj^hism quite clearl}' arose within the 

 group, and is one which is found in other groups than the rotifers. The 

 condition of the sex organs in the less specialized members of the 

 Dinophilicke (e.g., D. vorticoides) Meyer (1901) regards as representative 

 of the primitive condition of the ccelomesoblast in the annelids, and 

 one which is ciuite different from that found in rotifers, since the 

 unpaired condition found in D. conklini is evidently a derived one. 

 Moreover, the opinion is widely held that the Rotatoria constitute a 

 highly specialized group of somewhat uncertain affinities, since much 

 doubt has been thrown on its formerl}'- assumed close relation to the 

 trochophore. In short, when the various morphological characters 

 can be duplicated within the annelids, or accounted for by derivation 

 from that ancient and primitive group, it seems superfluous to suppose 

 that they have arisen independently, and to derive Dinophilus from 

 such a comparatively specialized group as the Rotatoria. 



Dinophilus has also been often compared to the trochophore larva of 

 annelids, but this comparison is somewhat inexact, if the term trocho- 

 phore is employed in the strictest sense. The resemblance is rather 

 to that intermediate stage in the metamorphosis represented by some 

 larvae of the potytrochal type. The head of Dinophilus is, for example, 

 in no way comparable to the inflated cephalic vesicle of the typical 

 trochophore; the trunk with its various organs is distinctly metameric, 

 and therefore to be compared with the trunk of the worm. On the 

 other hand, such features as the ciliated bands, particularly those pre- 

 oral in position, the ventral ciliated tract, and the preoral commissure, 

 have obviously been derived from the trochophore stage. On the 

 \Ahole, Dinophilus can l)est be considered as a veiy young polychsete 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



worm, retaining sonic of its larval features, with seta> and parapodia 

 undeveloped, and whose peritoneiun and ccelom have been transformed 

 into a generative organ. 



S. SuDiniarij. 



External Form. — The head of the female (text fig. I) is bluntly 

 conical in front and tapers rapidly behind to a well-defined neck. A 

 pair of red kidney-shaped eyes are borne on the dorsal surface of the 

 head. On its anterior surface are two long sense hairs, symmetrically 

 placed, and a number of smaller ones. A group of small sense hairs is 

 also present on its dorsal surface. The body is cigar-shaped, and 

 divided by constrictions into six segments, each of which bears a single 

 band of cilia. A circumanal band of cilia is also present, but is inter- 

 rupted on the dorsal surface. The head bears two rings of cilia, one 

 in front of the eyes, and one behind them, the latter band encircling 

 the head at its greatest diameter. Both of these bands are interrupted 

 by a dorsal gap. The anterior cephalic bands bend backward between 

 the ej^es. On each side of the head, behind the second cephalic ring, 

 is a shallow ciliated groove which runs ventrad to the lateral borders 

 of the mouth. A strip of cilia clothes the ventral surface of the animal 

 from the anterior tip of the head to the end of the caudal append age. 

 The males (text fig. II) are minute in size, short cylindrical in form, and 

 slightly constricted in the middle. A circular band of cilia is borne at 

 the anterior end, and a ciliated strip covers the ventral surface. A 

 conical penis is found near the posterior end of the body. 



Body Wall. — The body wall is composed of a one-layered hypo- 

 dermis, covered on the exterior by a thin cuticle. It is thin in the 

 intersegmental regions, thick in the intrasegmental. A ventral 

 thickened area extends the entire length of the animal. 



Gland Cells. — The body wall contains glands of three types. The 

 glands of the first type are mucous in character, scarce, and confined 

 to the ventral surface. Those of the second are also mucous glands,^ 

 long-p}Tiform in shape, metameric and symmetrical in their distribution, 

 and fairly constant in number (text fig. III). The glands of the third 

 type are non-mucous, very long-pyriform in shape, and found prin- 

 cipally near the middle of the trunk segments, and on the head. 



Muscles. — The muscles comprise two sets^ longitudinal and trans- 

 verse. The former are divided into three pairs. One pair lies close 

 together on the ventral side of the trunk, and traverses the latter from 

 the anus to the posterior side of the mouth. The second pair are 

 ventro-lateral in position and run from the anus to the anterior por- 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 137" 



tion of the head, penetrating the brain in their course. The third pair 

 is dorso-lateral in position and also runs from the anus to the head. 

 Fibres from the second pair (ventro-lateral muscles) meet and cross in 

 the head cavity. The second set of muscles comprises muscle fibres 

 which traverse the head cavity in a dorso-ventral direction, from side 

 to side, and also obliquely. 



Nervous System. — Central Nervous System. — The central nervous 

 system (fig. 1) includes a simple brain, in close contact with the hypo- 

 dermis, circumoesophageal connectives, and a pair of ventral nerve 

 cords. The latter traverse the whole length of the trunk and are 

 throughout embedded in the hypodermis. They are connected Iw 

 transverse commissures, three being present in the second trunk seg- 

 ment, and two in each of the three following. A preoral transverse 

 commissure is also present, which appears to be the homologue of the 

 ventral portion of the nerve-ring of the trochophore larva of the an- 

 nelids. Ganglion cells are present, also embedded in the hypodermis,. 

 and arranged to form four well-defined pairs of ganglia. A fifth is 

 possibly indicated. Large nerve-trunks are given off from the cir- 

 cumoesophageal commissm-e to the oesophagus and the ventro-Iatcral 

 muscles. 



Sense Organs. — The eyes consist each of a bilobed lens and a pigment 

 cup. The inner end of the latter is buried in the outer surface of the 

 brain. The large sense hairs on the anterior surface of the head are 

 connected with the brain by sensory neurons. Problematical sense 

 organs are found on the sides of the neck. 



Alimentary Canal. — The mouth is triradiate and is situated on 

 the ventral side of the head. It opens into an oesophagus which passes 

 upward, then backward for a short distance, to empty into a capacious 

 stomach which fills the body cavity in the third and fourth trunk seg- 

 ments. Near the anterior border of the fifth trunk segment the 

 stomach joins the intestine, which passes in an almost straight course 

 to the anus. The latter is situated dorsad of the caudal appendage.. 

 The alimentary canal is lined throughout with long cilia. The oeso{)h- 

 agus is provided Avith a large proboscis (fig. 23, pro.). The latter is 

 in shape ovoid, flattened dorso-ventrally, and is situated just within 

 the mouth, in an involution of the posterior wall of the ascending limb 

 of the oesophagus, and is attached to the oesophageal wall at the bot- 

 tom of the involution. The proljoscis is made up of flat cells arranged 

 like coins in a pile, and separated by chitonized partitions. On each 

 side of every partition is a layer of muscular fibres. The function of 

 the latter appears to be that of elongating the proboscis. This organ, 

 is moreover provided with a set of extrinsic muscles. 




138 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Glands. — The oesophagus is provided with so-called salivary glands, 

 which consist of two sets of imicellular glands, one on each side of the 

 oesophagus. The ducts from these glands pass forward separately to 

 empty into the anterior part of the oesophagus. Unicellular digestive 

 glands are found in the walls of the stomach. In the dorsal i^art of the 

 cavity of the head there are two groups of large pyriform glands, which 

 send down slender ducts to the ventral surface of the head. The func- 

 tion of these glands is unknown. 



Excretory Organs. — Nephridia. — Five pairs of nephridia are pres- 

 ent. The nephridia belonging to the posterior four pairs are simple 

 tubes of delicate structure, with a blind inner end. The anterior pair 

 are relatively large and complex organs (text fig. IV), consisting of an 

 anterior canal, representing the blind inner end of the simple type of 

 nephridium ; two large glandular bodies, connected with transverse and 

 diagonal canals, and a long duct opening on the posterior border of the 

 mouth. 



Amoeboid Cells. — Large amoeboid cells are found in the anterior part 

 of the body cavity, and also in the head cavity. Their function is 

 probably phagocytic. 



Sex Organs. — Ovary. — The ovary lies on the ventral side of the 

 alimentary canal, in the angle formed by the junction of the stomach 

 and intestine. It consists essentially of a very thin peritoneal sac, 

 to the posterior portion of which is attached a pyriform mass of oogonia, 

 forming a gonad, which lies inside of the sac. The peritoneal sac is 

 usually distended with ova, some of which were seen undergoing the 

 first maturation division. No oviduct was found. 



Conclusions. — Metamerism. — A well-marked metamerism is pres- 

 ent, expressed by the body wall and its mucous glands, the nephridia, 

 and the nervous system. The presence of five trunk metameres is 

 indicated, the most anterior of which is subdivided into two annuli. 



Cephalization. — A marked tendency to cephalization is shown by 

 the nephridia and the nervous system. 



Relationships. — The morphological evidence indicates close affinities 

 with the chaetopocl annelids. 



Literature List. 



Beneden, J. P. VAN. 1851. Notice sur un nouveau Nemertien de la cote 



d'Ostende. Bull. acad. roy. Beige, XVIII, 1. 

 . 1861. Recherches sur la faune littorale de Beleique. Mem. acnd roy 



Beige, XXXII. '^ 



BoLSius, H. 1892-3. Notice sur ranatomie de Torgane segmentaire d'Enchv- 



trseides. Anat. Am., VIII, pp. 210-215. 

 Brace, Edith M. 1901. Notes on the Nervous System of .Elosoma. Journ 



Morph., XVII, 2. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



BuASiL, L. 1904. Contribution a la connai.ssanco do I'apparpil dijrestif des 



Annelides polychetes. L'epitlu''liiuu intestinal de la pectinaire. Arch. 



zool. exj)., I\', '2. 

 Child, C. M. 1900. The Early Development of Arenicola and Sternaspis. 



Arch. Enlw.-Mech., IV, 9. 

 CoNKLiN. E. G. 1902. Karyokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, 



Fertilization, and Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gasteropods. Journ. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 2d ser.. XII, 1. 



. 1906. Sex Difierentiation in Dinophilus. Sr/ence, N. S., XXIV, p. 294. 



DiESiNG, C. 18.50. 8ystema Helniintliorum. Vindaborue. 



. 1SG2. Revision der Turbellarien. Sitzujigsb. Kais. Acad. Wiss. TT^'ien, 



XLV, 1. 

 FoETTiXGER, A. 1884. Recherches sur Torganisation do Histriobdella homari, 



P. J. van Beneden, rapportee aux Archiannelides. Arch, de Biol., V. 

 Fraipoxt, J. 1884. Le sj'steme nerveux .... des Archiannelides. Arch, de 



Biol., V. 

 Goodrich, E. S. 1897-8. Notes on the Anatomy of Sternaspis. Quart. Journ. 



Micr. Sci., XL. 

 .1897-80. On the Nephridia of the Polychseta. Part I. On Hesione, 



Tyrrhena, Nepthys. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci., XL. 

 . 1898-9. On tlie Nephridia of the Polychseta. Part II. Glycera and 



Goniada. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci., XLI. 

 . 1901. On the Structure and Affinities of Saccocirrus. Quart. Journ. 



Micr. Sci., XLIV. 

 ■Graf, Arnold. 1898. Hirudineenstudieren. Nova Acta Acad. Leap. Car., 



LXXII. 

 •Graff, Ludwig vox. 1877. Das Genus Myzostoma. Leipsig. 



. 1882. Monographie der Turbellarien. Leipsig. 



Hallez, p. 1878. Contributions k I'histoire des Turbellaries. Bull. Scient. 



departm. du Nord, 2d ser., I. 

 . 1879. Contributions k I'histoire naturelle des Turbellaries. Trav. Inst. 



zool. Lille, II. 

 Harmer, S. F. 1889. On a New Species of Dinophilus. Proc. Cambridge Phil. 



Soc, VI. 

 . 1889a. Notes on the Anatomy of Dinophilus. Journ. Marine Biol. 



Assn. United Kingdom, I, 2. 

 Haswell, Wm. a. 1900. On a New Histriobdellid. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci., 



XLIII. 

 Hatschek, B. 1878. Studien iiber Entwicklungsgcsch.ichte der Anneliden, 



Arb. zool. Inst. Wien, I. 

 . 1880. Protodrilus Leuckartii. Ein neue Gattung der Arclaianneliden. 



Arb. zool. Inst. Mien, III. 



. 1888-91. Lehrbuch der Zoologie. Jena. 



Jensen. 1878. Turbellaria ad litora Norvegise occideutalia. Bergen. 

 Kleixexberg, Nicholas. 1886. Die Entstehung des Annelids aus der Lar^"e 



von Lopadorhynchus, nebst Bemerkimgen iiber die Entwicklung anderer 



Polychteten. Zeit. f. wiss. Zool., XLIV. 

 Korschelt, Eugen. 1882. Ueber Bau und Entwicklung des Dinophilus 



apatris. Zeit. /. wiss. Zool., XXXVII. 

 . 1887. Die Gattung Dinophilus und der bei ihr auftretende Geschlechts- 



dimorphismus. Zool. Jahrb.. II, 3-4. 

 . 1893. Ophryotrocha puerilis Clap.-Metschn. und die polytrochen Larven 



eines anderen Anneliden (Ilarpoclueta cingulata nov. gen., nov. spec). Zeit. 



f. wiss. Zool., LMI, 2. 

 Korschelt, E., und Heider, K. 1903. Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Ent- 



wicklungsgeschichte der wirbellosen Thiere. Allgemeiner Theil. Jena. 

 Laxg, Arnold. 1884. Die Polycladen. Fauna und Flora des Golfes von 



Neapel. XI, pp. 078-9. 

 . 1891. Text-Book of Comparative Anatomy. English Translation by 



H. M., and Mathilda Bernard. Nem York. 

 Lea'inson, G. N. R. 1879. Bidrag til Kundskab on Gronlands Turbellarien- 



fauna. Vidensk Meddel. fra den nalurh. Foren in Kjnhenharn. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I'eh., 



Macintosh, W. C. 1885. Report on the Annelida Polycha;ta collected by H,. 



M. S. " Challenger' ' during the years 1873-76. Challenger Reports, XXXl\ . 

 Malaquin, a. 1893. Recherches sur les Syllidiens. Lille. 

 Malsex, Hans Freiherr von. 1906^ Geschlechtsbestimmende Einfliisse und; 



Eibildung bei Dinopliilus apatris. Archiv. f. viicr. AnaL, LIX, 1. 

 Mead, A. D. 1897. Tlie Early Dfevelopment of Marine Annelids. Journ. 



Morph., XIII, 2. 

 Mereschkowsky, C. 1879. Ueber einrge Turbellarien des Weissen Meercs. 



Archiv. Naturg., XLV, 1. 

 Meyer, Eduard. 1886-7. Studien iiber den Korperbau der Annelidcn. 



Mitth. zool. Stat. Neapel., VII. 

 . 1901. Studien iiber den Korperbau der Anneliden. V. Das Mesodena 



der Ringelwiirmer. Mitth. zool. Stat.. Neapel., XIV. 

 Moore, Anne. 1899. Dinophilus gardneri. (sp. nov.). Biol. Bull. ,1. 

 Moore, J. Percy. 1897. On the Structure of the Discodrilid Nephridiuin. 



Journ. Morph., XIII, 3. 

 Nelson, Jas. A. 1904. The Early Development of Dinophilus as Compared 



with that of the Annelids. Amer. Nat.., XXXVIII.. 

 — - — . 1904o. The Early Development of Dinophilus : a Study in Cell-Lineage. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, LVI, 3.. 

 . 1906. The Nervous System and Xepliridia of Dinophilus. .Science, N. S., 



XXIV, p. 298. 

 Oersted, A. S. 1843. Fors0g til en ny Classification af Planarierne (Planaria 



Duges.) grundet paa Mikroskopiskanatomiske Unters0gelser. Kroner Nat.. 



Tidssk., IV. 

 Pereyaslawzewa, Sophie. 1896. M^moire sur I'organisation de la Nerilla 



antennata O. Schmidt. Ann. Sci. Nat., Ser. 8, 1. 

 Prowazek, S. 1900. Zur Entwicklungsgeschiclite des Wurmes Dinophilus 



apatris. Naturw. Wochenschr., XV.. 

 QuATREFAGES, A. DE. 1851. Sur le nouveau N^mertien de la cote d'Ostende,. 



genre Dinophilus. Bull. acad. roy. Beige, XVIII. 

 Repiachoff, W. 1886. Ziu' Anatomic und Entwicklungsgeschichte des Dinoph- 

 ilus gyrociliatus O. Schmidt. (Russian.) Zapiski Nowoross. Obschestwa, 



etc., X, 1. Odessa. 

 Schaeppi, Th. 1894. Die Chlorogogen von Ophelia radiata. Jena Zeit. f. 



Naturiv., XXVIII. 

 ScHiMKEWiTSCH, W. 1895. Zur Kenntniss des Baues und Entwicklung des 



Dinophilus vom Weissem Meere. Zeit. f.iviss. Zool., LIX, 1. 

 ScHMARDA, L. K. 1861. Neue wirbellose Thiere, beobachtet und gesamraelt 



auf einer Reise um die Erde. Leipsig. 

 Schmidt, Oscar. 1848. Neue Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Wiirmer. 

 Jena. 



. 1857. Zur Kenntniss der Turbellaria rhabdocoela und einige andere 



Wiirmer des Mittelmeeres. Sitzungsb.. Akad.AViss. Muth.-Naturw. Klasse^ 

 Wien, XXIII. 

 ScHULTZE, Max. 1849. Ueber die Microstomeen, eine Familie der Turbellarien. 

 Arch. Naturg., XV, 1. 



. 1851. Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Turbellarien. Greifswald. 



ScHULTZ, EuGEN. 1902. Dinophilus rostratus nov. spec. Wiss. Meeresunters.,. 



Shearer, Cresswell. 1906. On the Structure of the Nephridia of Dinophilus. 



Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci., L, 4. 

 Spengel, J. W. 1881. Oligognathus bonellise, eine schmarotzende Eunicie. 



Mitth. zool. Stat. Neapel., Ill, 15. 

 Stolc, a. 1888. Monografie Ceskych Tubificidu: Abh. Bahm. Ges., VII, 2. 

 Vejdovsky, F. 1884. System und Morphologic der Oligocha^ten. Prag. 

 Verrill, A.E. 1892. Dinophihda? of New England. Trans. Coymecticut Acad. 



Arts and Sci., VIII. 

 Weldon, W. F. R. 1886. On Dinophilus gigas. Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci.,.. 



XXVII. 

 Wistinghausen, C. von. 1891. Untersuchungen uber die Entwdckluiig vow 



Nereis Dumerilli. Mitth. zool. Stat. Neapel., X. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHrLADELPHIA. 



141 



KXI'LAXATIOX OF PlaTES XII AND XIII. 



The figures have been drawn by the aid of the camera hicida at the 

 level of the table, under Zeiss homo. imm. tV; using the oculars 2 and 4 

 of Zeiss, and 3 and 5 of Leitz. The magnification, in diameters, of each 

 of these combinations was determined, and the particular magnification 

 employed in each figure is indicated after ,the description of that figure. 



Reference LEirTESg. 



fiin.c, amoeboid cell. 



br., brain. 



6r.com., transverse commissure of brain. 



c.com., circumoesophageal commi.^sure. 



c.e.n., central (anterior) end of ne- 

 pliridium. 



e.g., cilia of ciliated groove. 



c.gl., cephalic gland. 



c.gl.d., duct of cephalic gland. 



c.r. 1-9, 1st to 9tli ciliated rings. 



cut., cuticle. 



d.c.n., diagonal canal of nephridium of 

 1st pair. 



d.l.rn., dorso-lateral longitudinal mus- 

 cle. 



d.n., duct of nephridium of 1st pair. 



d.v.m., dorso-ventral muscle of head. 



€., eye. 



g.c, ganglion cells. 



g.gl., gastric gland. 



g. 2-5, ganglia of the 2d to the 5th 

 trunk segments. 



gl. 1-3, hypodermal glands of the 1st, to 

 the 3d type. 



hyj)., hypodermis. 



i.c.n., inner (anterior) canal of ne- 

 phridium of 1st pair. 



i.l.. inner lip. 



int., intestine. 



int.m., muscle encircling, terminal por- 

 tion of intestine — spliincter ani. 



/., lens of eye. 



l.g.n., lateral glandular portion of 

 nephridium of 1st pair. 



l.m.c, transverse muscles of head. 



l.m.f., longitudinal muscle fibres. 



l.m.i., insertion of longitudinal nmscles. 



l.n., lateral nerve cord. 



in., mouth. 



men., megenchymatous tissue. 



vi.n., nerve to ventro-lateral longi- 

 tudinal muscle. 



n., nucleus. 



n./., nerve fibres. 



np., neuropil. 



(Bs., oesophagus. 



ces.m., esophageal muscles. 



ces.n., CBsophageal nerve. 



Q.l , outer Up. 



ooc, ooC5f,tes. 



oog., oogonia. 



p.c, pigment of eye. 



per., peritoneum. 



pr.com., preoral commissure. 



pro. 1, anterior epithelial portion of pro- 

 boscis. 



pro. 2, posterior muscular portion of 

 proboscis. 



pro.f., flexor of proboscis. 



pro.l., levator of proboscis. 



pro.pr., protractor of proboscis. 



pro.r., retractor of proboscis. 



r.b., refringent body. 



s.gl., salivary glands. 



s.gl.d., duct of salivary glands. 



St., stomach. 



st.m., stomach wall. 



t.c.n., transverse canal of nephridium 

 of 1st pair. 



t.cil., tactile cilia. 



t.com., transverse commissure. 



v.g.n., ventral glandular portion of 



nephridium of 1st pair. 

 v.l.m. 1, median ventral longitudinal 



muscle. 

 v.l.m. 2, ventro-lateral longitudinal 

 muscle. 



Plate XII, Fig. 1. — The nervous .system, sHghtly schematized, and represented 

 as seen from the dorsal side. Reconstructed from a series of 102 sec- 

 tions of a single individual. The outlines of the body, the mouth, and 

 the ciliated bands are also reprasented. X 4.50. 

 .Fig. 2. — Cross section through the bruin, showing the neuropil, ganglion 

 cells, and eves. X 665. 




142 rROCEEDIMGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb,,. 



Fig. 3. — Cross section through the anterior portion of the mouth, showing 

 the openings of the duets of the salivary glands, the oesophageal muscles, 

 the oesophageal nerves, and the longitudinal muscles. X 665. 



Fig. 4. — Cross section through the posterior portion of the mouth, showing 

 the oesophagus, the proboscis, and the ducts of the salivary glands. 

 X 665. _ ^ 



Fig. 5. — Cross section through the trunk, just posterior to the mouth, show- 

 ing the salivary glands, the muscle-nerves, besides the features repre- 

 sented in the preceding figure. X 665. 



Fig. 6. — Cross section through the trunk, taken at the level of the 3d trunk 

 segment, showing the stomach, the longitudinal muscles, and the- 

 lateral nerve cords. X 665. 



Fig. 7. — Cross section through the posterior portion of the trunk, at the level 

 of the anterior half of the 6th trunk segment, showing the intestine, the 

 ovary, and the peritoneum enveloping it. X 665. 



Fig. 8. — Cross section through the posterior end of the trunk, just anterior 

 to the anus, shomng the hypodermal glands on the dorsal side, and the 

 intestine A\dth a sphincter muscle encircling it. X 665. 



Fig. 9. — Cross section through the ventral hypodermis in the posterior por- 

 tion of the 3d trunk segment, and passing through the posterior com- 

 missure of that segment. Ganglion cells and a portion of a nephridium 

 are also shown. X 665. 



Fig. 10. — The eye, from a coronal section, showing the bilobed lens, the pig- 

 ment cup, aiid the adjacent ganglion cells of the brain. Flemming's 

 fluid. X 1115. 



Fig. 11. — Problematical sense organ, also insertion of the oesophageal muscles 

 on the hj-podermis. Corrosive-acetic. X 1115. 



Fig. 12. — Portion of a coronal section through the head, showing one of the 

 two tufts of tactile cilia borne on the anterior surface of the latter, and 

 the connection of the cilia-bearing cells with the ganglion cells of the 

 brain. Flemming's fluid. X 1115. 



Fig. 13. — Two muscle fibres from one of the diagonal muscles of the head, 

 showing the nucleus and cell body attached to the fibres. X 1115. 



Fig. 14. — Section through a portion of the ventral hypodermis, showing 

 ciliated and non-ciliated cells, the cuticle, and also the median ventral 

 longitudinal muscle fibres. Flemming's fluid. X 1115. 



Figs. 15-17. Hypodermal glands of the first, second and third types, 

 respectively. X 1115. 



Fig. IS. — Four glands from the dorsal hypodermis of the posterior end of the 

 trunk. Three of them are non-nuicous glands (gl. 3.); the remaining 

 one (ql. 2.) contains mucus. X 1115. 

 Plate XIII, Fig. 19. — Coronal section through head, showing the brain and the 

 insertion of the longitudinal nuiselcs. X 665. 



Fig. 20. — Coronal section through head, taken at a lower level tlian the 

 figure preceding, showing the transverse commissure of the brain, the 

 orign of the circumoesophageal commissures, and the preoral commis- 

 sure. X 665. 



Fig. 21. — Ovary, from a sagittal section. The ventral hypodermis is also 

 represented, as well as the outlines of the stomach and intestinal walls. 

 X 665. 



Fig. 22. — Cephalic gland, drawn from two sagittal sections. The outlines 

 of tlie neuropil, of ganglion cells, and of a hypodermal cell are also 

 indicated. Flemming's fluid. X 665. 



Fig. 23. — Sagittal section through the head and anterior portion of the trunk,. 

 showing the brain, the preoral transverse commissure, the mouth, the 

 oesophagus, the proboscis, and muscle insertions. X 665. 



Fig. 24. — Portion of the lateral body-wall of tlie 3d trunk segment, showing 

 the inner end of the right member of the second pair of nephridia. 

 Corrosive-acetic. X 1115. 



Fig. 2oa-e. — Five consecutive cross sections through the left nephridium of 

 the first pair; fig. 25a being the most anterior of the series. Corrosive- 

 acetic. X 1115. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Figs. 20a-6. — Two consecutive coronal sections tliroupili one of the neph- 

 ridia of the first pair; fig. 2Go lying uppermost. Corrosive-acetic. 

 V lllo. 



Fig. 27. — Three cells of the ciliated hand of the first trunk segment, from a 

 tangential section. FkMuniing's fluid. X III.t. 



Fig. 28. — Tlie second cephalic ciliated band and the ciliated groove, from a 

 tangential section. X 1115. 



Fig. 29. — The ventral hypodermis, showing ciliated and non-ciliated cells, 

 from a horizontal section. X 665. 



Fig. 30. — Cross section through the proboscis, showing two layers of the 

 intrinsic muscle fibres. Flemming's fluid. X 665. 



Figs. 31 and 32. — Degenerating cells of the oesophageal wall. Corrosive- 

 acetic. X 1115. 



I''ig. 33. — A spherical Ijody with its accompanying nucleus, from the stomach 

 wall. Corrosive-acetic. X 1115. 



Fig. 34. — Digestive gland, from the stomach wall. Corrosive-acetic. X 

 1115. 



Fig. 35. — Cells from the stomacli wall. Flemming's fluid. X 665. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



March 5. 



Arthur Erwin Browx, D.Sc, Mce-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



The Pubhcation Committee reported the presentation of a paper 

 entitled "Note on the Genus Kiihha," by Dr. Theodore Gill (February 



27). 



The death of Frederick E. Stearns, a Correspondent, February, 1907, 

 was announced. 



Dr. a. E. Brown criticised the theory that species arise only by 

 mutation, as maintained by De Vries. (No abstract.) 



March 19. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



^Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., made a communication on a Mexican 

 journey and its entomological results, illustrated with lantern slides 

 from kodak views taken by Mrs. Calvert and by an exhibition of 

 insects collected. (No abstract.) 



Mr. C. C. Beddoes was elected a member. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed : 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



A NEW TURBELLARIAN FROM HAWAII. 

 ; ■ " BY HAROLD HEATH. 



The species of flatwonn described in the present paper is represented 

 by four individuals dredged by the U. S. F. C. Str. "Albatross" in the 

 Auau Channel between Maui and Lanai Islands, Hawaii, where the 

 depth is 28-43 fathoms and the bottom consists of sand and gravel. 

 With one exception the specimens were in perfect condition and swam 

 actively by means of undulatory movements of the lateral margins of 

 the body, as is the habit of several other species of Turbellaria. Cocaine 

 was used as a narcotizing agent and formaldehyde as a preservative. 



The largest specimen is almost circular in outline and measures 35 

 by 39 mm. ; while the next largest is more oval with a length of 42 mm. 

 and an average width of 27 mm. In each case the body is only slightly 

 colored and is restricted to the dorsal surface, where the minute black 

 pigment cells form stippled streaks and blotches. As in other Plano- 

 ceridae the mouth is about median, the male copulatory apparatus is 

 directed backward, and in common with other species of the genus 

 Flanocera the nuchal tentacles are located about one-foiu-th of the 

 body length from the anterior end. Around the bases of each there 

 is a group of large eyes, while the intermediate brain region is occupied 

 by the smaller voriety which forms two irregular clusters. 



The digestive system presents no especially peculiar features. The- 

 external mouth, mesially situated, leads into the much plicated, 

 pharynx (PI. XIV, fig. 1), whose length nearly equals one-fourth that of 

 the body. Laterally it is produced into four pairs of diverticula, of 

 which the anterior may be somewhat indistinct. Directly above, 

 that is dorsal to the outer mouth, the opening from the pharynx leads 

 into the main division of the gut, which in turn communicates with five 

 pairs of intestinal branches. These are invariably empty and rela- 

 tively slender and practically of even calibre throughout their entire 

 extent. Their general arrangement and method of branching may be 

 seen in fig. 1, which likewise shows frequent anastomoses, Lang* 

 states that when these occur they appear most clearly in the young 



^ Die Polydaden, Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel, 1884. 

 10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



individuals, and that in the sexually mature animals they are very 

 seldom seen. Evidently the present species is one of the exceptions, 

 since in fig. 1, which represents an animal with the ovaries barely 

 developed, the anastomoses are not so numerous as in a larger in- 

 dividual where the female reproductive system is fully functional. 



The brain holds a position about one-fourth the length of the animal 

 from the anterior end of the body, and after treatment with equal 

 parts of formaldehyde and glycerine may be seen with the greatest 

 distinctness to originate two extensive networks, the well-known 

 ventral one and a dorsal system which has, so far as I know, never been 

 seen in whole mounts, though it was traced with considerable accuracy 

 by Lang from a study of sections. The ventral set of nerves develops 

 from the ventral half of the brain by means of several pairs of nerves 

 which have essentially the same origin as those of P. graffii (Lang's fig. 

 4, PI. 31). These form an extensive meshwork over the entire under 

 surface of the animal, conforming in general to the plan of P. grajfii, 

 though the main fibres are more delicate and their branching is not so 

 regular. 



The dorsal system may be clearly seen with the naked eye to form 

 an extensive network over the entire dorsal surface of the body. Its 

 fibres are generally smaller than those of the ventral side and the 

 branching occurs with less frequency, thus forming meshes of larger 

 size. Three pairs of nerves give it origin, their position and mode of 

 branching being sufficiently well shown in fig. 2 to require no further 

 comment. 



In the most favorable specimen the testes are seen to be scattered 

 over the ventral surface, with the exception of the area bounded by_ 

 the two innermost longitudinal nerves. Under low magnification 

 their arrangement suggests that they and the delicate canals (vasa 

 ■efferentia) leading from them form an anastomosing system, and in 

 certain favorable situations, and especially in sections, it is possible 

 to demonstrate that such is actually the case. These minor canals 

 combine to form the vasa deferentia, which usually extend anteriorly 

 as well as posteriorly on each side from their T-shaped union with the 

 single branch extending inward to the midline, but in the present 

 species an anterior division has never been discovered. Throughout 

 its entire extent each vas deferens is a moderately convoluted canal 

 which may form a slight anastomosis at some point, as is shown in fig. 1. 



The tube resulting from the fusion of the vasa deferentia in the mid- 

 line passes at once into the small yet muscular seminal vesicle (fig. 5) 

 which is somewhat elliptical in form. From here the canal passes 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



slightly to the left in order to skirt the p-aiiular gland, and then by a 

 fairly direct route leads into the bases of the copulatory organ. A 

 short distance from its entrance into this last-named organ it combines 

 with the short duct from the granular gland. 



The copulatory apjiaratus is a cylindrical body of comparatively 

 large size, occupying the midline and all the available space between 

 the body walls. Its inner third is spongy in character and is pene- 

 trated by a single canal, the ductus ejaculatorius, which continues to 

 the exterior. The remaining two-thirds, constituting the eversible 

 portion, is provided with powerful muscular walls and is lined with a 

 multitude of spines which belong to three distinct classes (fig. 5). 

 Those adjoining the outer opening, and consequently basally situated 

 when the penis is protruded, appear in sections to be at least eight in 

 ninnber. Of these two are of large size, hook-like (fig. 6), and are 

 clearly seen in surface views to be symmetrically disposed on each side 

 of the midline. The other six, or possibly eight, are considerably 

 smaller, less curved, and although not clearly visible in surface views 

 appear likewise to be symmetrically disposed a short distance within 

 the external opening. The second type of spine is the smallest and the 

 most abundant and occurs throughout the greater part of the penis. 

 Each is somewhat spindle-shaped and the free end is slightly hooked 

 (fig. 3). Toward the inner end of the eversible portion this type of 

 spine shades into others of similar form, but of a greater length and of a 

 somewhat more slender appearance. At the extreme inner end, the 

 tip of the fully extended organ, these slender spines become larger and 

 more highly cuticularized, and their distal halves assume the brownish 

 yellow tint of the first type. Among these are several larger, toothed 

 spines which are represented in fig. C. 



Lang maintains that each of the spines in Planocera graffii is merely 

 a modified epithelial cell, and judging from his figure (fig. 4, PI. 10) 

 all are of the same character and are similar to the smallest type in the 

 present species. While this view appears plausible at first sight, there 

 are reasons for believing that it does not express the true state of 

 affairs in PL hawaiiensis. Certainly it cannot be held that the huge 

 spines of the first and third types are each a modified epithehal cell. 

 On the other hand each presents the appearance of being a cuticularized 

 papilla, possibly covered with many epithelial cells, though no cell 

 structure now exists, and penetrated by a connective tissue core which 

 clearly shades basalwards into the unmodified filjrous substance of the 

 penis. Furthermore, while each of the smaller spines may be the pro- 

 <luct of a single cell, there is little indeed in the adult condition to 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [i^Iarch, 



indicate such an origin. Sections show that they are merely projections 

 on transverse cuticularized ridges which encircle the inner wall of the' 

 organ. 



As usual the ovaries are dorsally placed, and the tubes leading from- 

 them join with the uteri which are well defined a short distance anterior 

 to the mouth. From this point they extend backward, fuse in the 

 midline and form a single duct which passes dorsally into the egg canal. 

 Distal to this last-named union the egg canal extends posteriorly for a 

 short distance and enlarges slightly to form the small accessory sac- 

 On the other hand the egg tube passes backward, enlarges slightly tO' 

 form the shell chamber, beyond which it becomes continuous with the 

 bursa copulatrix. This is a thick-walled, cone-shaped organ whose 

 inner walls are developed into well-defined rugoe almost cuticular in^ 

 appearance. 



The following brief description will serve to distinguish this species 

 from other knowm forms. 

 Planocera hawaiiensis sp. nov. 



Body tolerably consistent, broadly elliptical or circular. Length of 

 largest specimen 39 mm., width 33 mm. Color wholly lacking or 

 limited to faint, black blotches and streaks on dorsal surface. Nuchal 

 tentacles at end of first fourth of body length ; bases surrounded by 

 eyes about twice the size of those of the intermediate area, which form 

 two groups, the greater number in front of the brain. Five lateral 

 and one anterior intestinal branches which are united by frequent 

 anastomoses. Testes and uniting tubes form an anastomosing system. 

 Penis lined with three species of spines or hooks, several being of large 

 size. Bursa large, accessory sac relatively small. 

 Auau Channel, Hawaii (Station 3,876), 28-43 fathoms. 



Explanation of Plate XIV, 



Fig. 1. — Planocera hawaiiensis, ventral view showing digestive and reproductive' 



systems. 

 Fig. 2. — Dorsal nervous system. 



Fig. 3. — One of the spines of the penis (for position see fig. 5). 

 Fig. 4. — Tentacles, eyes and brain. 

 Fig. 5. — Central portion of the reproductive system. B, bursa copulatrix; G^ 



granular gland ; P, penis. 

 Fig. 6. — Large penis spine (for position see fig. 5). 






o 



r 

 r 



n 



H 



o 



o 



X 

 PI 



E 





Q 



r 

 r 



i 

 c 



2 



c 



rr 



K 

 K 



^'*''**4^g,;^^iJE.4ia£=-^* 











.-lyfT'T* lyt!^ ^., .^ 



Q 



r 

 ►J 



o 

 z 



Q 



p: 



:r 



h 



m 





o 



r 

 r 



K 



H 



o 

 :^ 



Q 



X 



p] 



53 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1907. 



PLATE IX. 



cM 



GILLETTE ON CHERMES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE X. 





C/^ 



GILLETTE ON CHERMES. 









PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907 

 pr.eom 



NELSON ON onOPHiLus CONKLINI. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XIII, 



19 



% 



V 



23 



(l.l.ni. I 



'^'-o.l. 



27 



28 



c.rls. o-S- 



4^ AW,, 



NELSON ON DINOPHIL 





r 

 > 



o 

 o 



> 









1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



April 2. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., made a communication on the sci- 

 sntific appUcation of ecology in the wet and dry cultivation of plants. 

 (No abstract.) 



April 16. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



Henry Skinner, M.D., spoke of the variations in the life-history 

 of insects. (No abstract.) 



Richard H. Harte, M.D., was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 



11 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NOTE ON THE GENUS KXJHLIA. 

 • - BY THEODORE GILL. 



The genus Diiles was first named by Cuvier and Valenciennes in 1829. 

 in the Histoire Naturelle des Poissons (III, 111), for fishes resembling 

 Ceyitropristes, but distinguished by the presence of only six branclii- 

 ostegal rays. The genus is divided into two sections, the first with 

 three points to the opercle and an undivided dorsal (as in Centro- 

 pristes) and the second with two points to the opercle and an emarginate 

 dorsal. The name has been restricted to the first section for many 

 years, and for the second section (not related to Centropristes) the 

 generic name Kuhlia, given by Gill in 1861, has been used. Recently, 

 however, Mr. Henry W. Fowler, in the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906 

 (p. 510), has contended that Kuhlia "is superseded b}^ Dules Cuvier,, 

 Rhgne Animal, ed. 2, II, 1829, p. 147 (type Centropomus rupestris 

 Lacepede by first species)." 



Cuvier in the Regne Animal especially refers, in a footnote, to the 

 "Dules auriga Cuv. et Val., Ill, li," etc., and that work was published 

 in advance of the Regne Animal. In accordance with Mr. Fowler's own 

 principles, then, Kuhlia should be retained as well as the family name 

 Kuhliidce, and not Dules and Dideidw (or Dulidce). 



Mr. Fowler also remarks that "the specific name of the species gener- 

 ally known as Kuhlia malo should be " Dules mato Lesson, Voy. aut. 

 Mond. Coquille, Zool, III, 1830 (March 22, 1828) ,i p. 223, thus having 

 priority over Dules malo Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., VII, 1831,. 

 p. 360." 



Inasmuch, however, as Lesson, at the place cited, especially quotes- 

 "Dules malo Cuv., Poiss., t. VII, p. 479," it is obvious that the volume 

 in question (VII) must have been set up and published before the 

 description by Lesson was even in print, notwithstanding the dates of 

 the title-pages. 



It may be added that the proper indigenous Tahitian name of the 

 Kuhlia appears to have been Mato and not Malo, and Cuvier's name 

 may have resulted from a typographical error, in which case Kuhlia 

 mato would be the correct form. 



1 It is not e\ident what is meant by the date "March 22, 1828 "j certainly the 

 volume of the Coquille could not have been published then. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



NON-SALTATORIAL AND ACRIDOID ORTHOPTERA FROM SAPUCAY, 



PARAGUAY. 



BY JAMES A. G. REIIN. 



The following records and descriptions arc based on an extensive 

 series of specimens collected by Mr. W. T. Foster and now forming part 

 of the collection of Mr. Morgan Hcbard, of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia. 



Considerable work has already been done on the Orthopterous fauna 

 of Sapucay, but an idea of the richness of this region in species may be 

 formed when w^e consider that in addition to the number already 

 recorded seven new ones are here described. 



Foiu- papers have been published bearing wholly or in the greater 

 part on the Orthoptera of Sapucay/ all of which have been of great 

 assistance to me in studying this large series of specimens. One of the 

 first of these papers treated of a small collection secured by Mr. Hebard 

 from Sapucay, the results proving of such interest that he immediately 

 endeavored to secm"e a more representative collection, an effort well 

 repaid by the magnificent series of specimens available for study. 



In many cases notes on the variability of series, both in size and 

 coloration, have been given, while comparisons with available material 

 from adjacent regions have frequently furnished information worthy of 

 record. Species which are here recorded from Sapucay for the first 

 time are preceded by an asterisk. 



The Tettigonidse (Locustidse) and Gr3dlielae of this collection will be 

 the subject of a future contribution. 



The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard for the opportunity to study 

 this collection, a considerable representation of which has been gener- 

 ously presented to the Academy. 



FORFICULID^. 

 APTERYGIDA West wood. 

 Apterygida linearis (Eschscholtz). 



1 9 . November, 1902. 



* Rehn, J.A.G. Records of some Paraguayan Orthoptera, with the Description 

 of a New Genus and Species. Ent. News, XVI, pp. .37-42. 



• Caudell, A. N. On a Collection of Non-Saltatorial Orthoptera from Paraguay. 

 Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XII, pp. 179-lSS. 



Bruner, L. S\'noptic List of Parafniavan Acrididae, with Descriptions of New 

 Forms. Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX. pp. 613-694. 



CmidelU A . N. The Locustidse and GrvUidtc (Katydids and Crickets) collected 

 by W. T. Foster in Paraguay. Proc. U. 'S. Nat. Mus., XXX, pp. 235-244. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



BLATTID^. 



PSEUDOMOPIN.^. 



ISCHNOPTERA Burmeister. 



Isohnoptera vilis Saussure. 



1869. I[schnoptera] vilis Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XXI, p. 112. [Argentine Pampas.] 



9 6^. February, March and October, 1902; January to March, 1905. 

 In several of these specimens the reddish lateral margins of the 

 pronotum are less pronounced than in others. 



Isohnoptera brasiliensis Brunner. 



1865. /[schnoptera] brasiliensis Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 130. 

 [Brazil.] 



2 d^. April and May, 1902. 



These individuals are somewhat smaller than the measurements 

 given by Brunner, but in other respects are typical of the species. 



NYCTIBORIN.E. 



NYCTIBORA Burmeister. 

 ♦Nyctibora vestita Saussure. 



1864. Paratr[opes] vestita Saussure, Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XVI, p. 308. [Brazil.] 



1 d", 1 9 . December, 1904; March, 1905. 



This species was originally synonymized with N. crassicornis Bur- 

 meister by Brunner, a proceeding which seems to the author not 

 exactly justified by the published descriptions at least. Biurmeister's 

 crassicornis appears, from the description given by Brunner, to be a 

 larger species without the very distinct single central blotch on the 

 pronotum; Saussure's vestita, on the other hand, has the median spot 

 distinct.^ The size of crassicornis given by Brunner shows that the 

 pronotum was larger by at least one millimeter in both directions than 

 in the available material. 



The specimens in hand have the median patch on the pronotum 

 solid, without sign of division, and somewhat resembling that of A^ 

 omissa Brancsik ^ from Catamarca, Ai-gentina, though more rounded 

 and not as transverse. The anal vein of the tegmen is also finely 

 lined with black, in addition to the discoidal vein and sutural margin. 



* M^m. Mex. Blatt., p. 64. 



' Jahresheft Naturwissen. Ver. Trencsiner Comitates, Trencsen, XXIV, p. 186, 

 tab. Ill, fig. 1, la and b. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



EPILAMPRIN.E. 



PARATROPES Serville. 



*Paratropes elegans (Burmeister). 



is.N. IVi[orn.'^pis] clcganii Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., Bd. II, Abth. II, 

 pt. I, p. 493. [Probably Surinam.] 



1. 6". February, 1905. 



This specimen differs from Brunner's interpretation * of the species 

 in that the Hmbs are solid black, the coxae finely margined with pale 

 yellowish, the face without the transverse line dorsad of the labrum, 

 and the antennse with a narrow annulus instead of having the terminal 

 portion all yellowish. When compared with the descriptions of other 

 species of the genus the individual in hand agrees closer with that of 

 elegans, differing in the color characters here given. 



EPILAMPRA Burmeister. 

 ♦Epilampra brasiliensis (Fabricius). 



1775. [Blatta] brasiliensis Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 272. [Brazil.] 

 1 d^, 1 9. February and March, 1905. 



This species has also been recorded from San Pedro Province, Para- 

 guay. 



PANCHLORIN.E. 

 PANCHLORA Burmeister. 

 *Panchlora hyalina (Stoll). 



1813. [Blatta] hyalina Stoll, Natuur. Afbeeld-Besch. Kakkerlakken, p. 5, 

 14, pi. Ill d, fig. 12. [No locality.] 



1 6". March, 1905. 



This name appears to be applicable to the species generally known 

 as Panchlora viridis Burmeister. 



MANTIDiE.; 

 MANTIN.E. 

 ACONTISTA Saussure. 

 Acontista bimaculata Saussure. 



1870. A[contista] bimaculata Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 229. [Brazil.] 



9 cJ', 4 9 . February and March, 1905. 



As the female of this species has never been described the following 

 diagnosis may prove of service. 



Form robust, as is usual in females of this genus. Head with the 

 occipital outline slightly arcuate, almost straight mesad, more arcuate 



* Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 150. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



laterad, the prominent lateral vertical sulci cutting the occipital out- 

 line; ocelli disposed as in the male but much smaller; facial scutellum 

 shaped as in the male; antennce slender, subfiliform, not exceeding the 

 head and pronotum in length. Pronotum shaped very much as in the 

 male, but shorter and consequently with the dilation extending more 

 caudad, and the constricted caudal section shorter. Tegmina short, 

 but very slightly longer than the pronotum, costal margin evenly 

 rounded, apex subrectangulate, sutural margin slightly arcuate in the 

 distal two-thirds, rather abruptly and obliquely curved on the proxunal 

 third; stigma distinct. Abdomen strongly depressed, expanded; 

 supra-anal plate broadly and roundly trigonal ; cerci slightly surpassing 

 the apex of the plate. Cephalic limbs very robust; coxse hardly 

 exceeding the pronotum in length, subquadrate in section; femora 

 slightly longer than the coxse. 



General color pale apple green; eyes pale walnut brown. Tegmen 

 with the stigma bistre. Wing brick red, the greater part of the 

 marginal section of the caudal area rich glossy blue black, the trans- 

 verse veins hyaline and touched with brick red. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 23 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 



Greatest wddth of pronotum, 3.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 5.5 '' 



Greatest breadth of abdomen, 8.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 7 " 



Two males and one female are washed more or less strongly with 

 brownish. 



This species has also been definitely recorded from the Provinces 

 of Goyaz and Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. 



BRUNNERIA Saussure. 



1869. Brvnneria Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., Ill, pp. 5S, 71. 

 Type. — B. subaptera Saussure. 



Brunneria brasiliensis Saussure. 



1870. B[runneria] brasiliensis Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 240. [Brazil.] 



8 d", 14 ? . February and March, 1905. 



This series shows that the species is moderately uniform in size and 

 possesses w^ell-marked green and brown phases in the female, the 

 thorax and abdomen varying in accord with the general phase. 




1907.] KATUR.\L SCIENCES OF PIIIL.\DELPHIA. 155 



*Bruuneria aubaptera Saussnrc. 



1809. B[runnena] subaptera Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entotn. Gesell., 

 Ill, p. 71. [Argentine Pampas.] 



2 6". March, 1905. 



These two specimens are larger than the same sex of brasiliensis, 

 with the ocelH smaller and the antennae and cerci longer. One speci- 

 men (March 5) has the character of the cerci and antennae more marked 

 than the other, and measurements of both specimens with those of an 

 average male of brasilietisis are here given. 



Length of body, . 

 Length of antenna, . 

 Length of pronotum, 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of cephalic femur, 

 Length of cere us, 



This species has been recorded from the north of Patagonia and the 

 Pampas, and specifically from Bahia Blanca, Argentina. A female 

 individual from Carcarafia, Argentina, determined by Prof. Bruner as 

 B. brasiliensis, is clearly referable to subaptera, the shape of the supra- 

 anal plate and the length of the cerci being typical of this species, 



COPTOPTEEYX Saussure. 

 1869, Coptopteryx Saussure,'.Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., Ill, pp. 56, 66. 

 Type, as selected by Kirby, C. claraziana Saussure = C. crenaticollis 

 ( Blanch ard). 

 ♦Coptopteryx crenaticollis (Blanchard). 



1851. Mantis crenaticollis Blanchard, in Gay, Hist. Fis. Polit. de Chile, 

 Zool., VI, p. 22. [Chile.] 



2 6". February, 1905, 



These specimens are clearly referable to this species, of which a 

 female from Carcarafia, Argentina, has also been examined. Giglio- 

 Tos has recorded the species from San Pedro Province, Paraguay. 



♦Coptopteryx gayi (Blanchard). 



1851. Mantis Gayi Blanchard, in Gav, Hist. Fis. Polit. de Chile, Zool., VI, 

 p. 21. [Chile.] 



3 d", 4 9 . December, 1904; January, 1905. 



This species can easily be recognized in the female by the elongate 

 pronotum, and separated from C. argentina by the longer, slenderer 

 median and caudal limbs and weaker cephalic limbs, while C. crena- 

 ticollis is distinct]}^ smaller and comparatively more robust. The 

 male, on the other hand, bears a very considerable resemblance to that 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of C. argentina, and might easily be considered only a brownish speci- 

 men of that species. However, a close examination discloses several 

 very good characters to separate the two species, such as the more 

 compressed shaft of the pronotum, the narrower supra-coxal dilation 

 and weaker cephalic limbs. All the specimens examined are of various 

 shades of brown, one male having the limbs clear green, while one male 

 and one female have the same parts touched with the same color. 



A female specimen from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, received from 

 Dr. Saussure and determined by him as C. gayi, is distinctly smaller 

 than Sapucay females and has the margins of the pronotum with 

 somewhat heavier spines, but does not appear separable otherwise. 

 The measurements of a Sapucay female and of the Rio Grande do Sul 

 individual are as follows : 



Sapucay. Rio Grande do Sul. 



Length of body, 80.5 mm. 62 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 25.5 " 20 " 



Greatest width of pronotum, .... 7 " 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 13.2 " 11.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 19 " 15.5 " 



Coptopteryx argentina (Burmeister). 



1864. M[antis] argentina Burmeister, Berlin Entom. Zeitsch., ^^[II, p. 208. 

 [Argentina between Buenos Ayres and Mendoza.] 



7 d", 10 $ . December, 1904; January to March, 1905. 



This series is rather uniform in size and quite so in coloration. 



PHOTINA Burmeister. 

 1838. Photina Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., Bd. II, Abth. II, pt. I, p. 531. 

 Type. — P. vitrea Burmeister. 

 Photina brevis n. sp. 



Type: c?; Sapucay, Paraguay. March 5, 1905. (William Foster.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Very closely allied to P. vitrea Burmeister, but differing in the shorter 

 pronotum and the more numerous rami of the discoidal vein of the 

 wing. 



Size medium; form moderately slender. Head broad, trigonal, 

 occipital outline moderately arcuate; ocelli large, placed in a broad 

 triangle, apex ventrad; eyes moderately projecting laterad; facial 

 scutellum strongly transverse, dorsad with a median arcuation, sinuate 

 laterad, ventrad margin slightly concave; antennae slightly exceeding 

 the head and pronotum in length, sub-moniliform. Pronotum with 

 the cephalic section moderately expanded, not constricted cephalad 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



157 



but rounding narrowly from the greatest expansion to the cephahc 

 margin; shaft slightly exceeding the expanded portion in length, mod- 

 erately narrowed, slightly expanded caudad; margias unarmed, 

 dorsum without distinct carina. Tegmen large, hyaline except for the 

 semi-opacpie costal field, in shape elongate-ovate, the greatest width 

 at the distal third, costal and sutural margins arcuate proximad and 

 distad, apex narrowly rounded; median vein furcate with each 

 arm again furcate; discoidal vein furcate proximad, the caudal arm 

 again furcate; principal axillary veins three in number; stigma very 

 weak, linear, crossing the discoidal vein. Wing about tw^ce as long as 

 broad, costal margin straight in the proximal two-thirds, strongly 

 arcuate in the distal third, apex slightly acute, narrowly rounded, 

 caudal margin of the projecting portion of the anterior field nearly 

 straight, oblique; humeral vein furcate near the base, the rami parallel 

 for the greater part of their length ; median vein furcate near the apex ; 

 discoidal vein trifurcate, the first being almost at the base, the second 

 nearly mesad, the third about the proximal third; axillary vein bifur- 

 cate, the first not far from the base, the other near the apex. Abdo- 

 men rather slender; supra-anal plate short, trigonal; subgenital plate 

 moderately produced and provided distad with two small styles; cerci 

 slender, acute, moderately exceeding the subgenital plate. Cephalic 

 coxa about two-thirds the length of the pronotum; cephalic femur 

 somewhat shorter than the pronotum, rather slender, armed with six 

 spines on the external margin (counting the genicular spine) and 

 tv.'elve of two sizes on the internal ; tibia slightly more than half the 



Fig. 1. — Photina brcvis n. sp. Tegmen and ■nnng of male type. (X 2.) 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



length of the femur, armed on the external margin with thirteen 



spines and twelve on the internal. Median and caudal limbs rather 



slender. 



General color pale apple green becoming weak parrot green on the ab- 

 domen. Eyes walnut brown ; antennse cinnamon ; ocelli 

 glassy crimson, their peduncles rather yellowish. Cep- 

 halic femora with the larger spines on their internal 

 margins marked proximad with blackish, the proximal 

 section of the femora also with two circular blackish 

 spots on the ventral portion of the internal face ; 

 tibiae washed with yellowish. Tegmina with the 

 semi-opaque costal area weak apple green, remainder 



F" o^ph f hyaline but the nerves of the same greenish. Wings 



brevis n. sp. with the costal margin washed with greenish, the 



Dorsal view of remainder hyaline, the nerves greenish as in the 

 male prone- ^ ' ^ 



turn. (X 3.) tegmina. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 41 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 10.5 



Greatest width of pronotum, 3.5 



Length of tegmen, 35 



Greatest width of tegmen, 11.2 



Length of cephalic femur, 9 



Length of caudal femur, 11.2 



Two females have also been examined, one taken in February, the 

 other in March, 1905. These individuals differ in no essential par- 

 ticulars from the type. 



PARAMUSONIA Rehn. 



1894. Musonia Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 64. 



(Not of Stal, 1877.) 

 1904. Paramusonia Rehn, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 567. 



Type. — Thespis cuhensis Saussure. 



Paramusonia livida Serville. 



1839. Thespis livida Serville, Orthopt^res, p. 172. [Brazil.] 



Six 6^. April and May, 1902; February and March, 1905. 



These specimens are very slightly larger than the measurements 

 given by Serville: "Long 1 pouce au moins, non compris la lame 

 abdominale .... prothorax long de trois lignes au moias." Several 

 of the individuals seen about equal the length of body of this species 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



given by Caudell.^ In all the specimens the tips of the tegmina fall 

 in repose at least a millimeter short of the tips of the wings. 



CREOBOTRIN.^:. 

 ACANTHOPS Servillo. 

 1831. Acanthops Ser\ille, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. .52. 

 Type. — Mantis fuscifolia Olivier = MmUis sinuata Stoll. 



Acanthops sinuata (Stoll). 



ISl.S. [Mantis] sinuata Stoll, Xatuur. Afbeeld. Besch. Spooken, pp. 12, 77, 

 pi. IV, fig.- 14. [Surinam.] 



8 c?, 10 ? . November, 1904, to March. 1905. 



This series shows some variation in size in both sexes, and also in the 

 shade of the general coloration. Some individuals are decidedly 

 blackish brown and others are practically ferruginous, the average, 

 however, being darker. The tegmina of the females in no case exceed 

 twenty-four millimeters in length. 



VATIX-E. 



OXYOPSIS Caudell. 



1809. Oxyops Saussure, Mittheil. Schweiz. Entom. Gesell., Ill, pp. 56, 66. 



(Xot of Schonherr, 1826.) 

 1904. Oxyopsis Caudell, Journ. N. Y. Ent. See, XII, p. 184. 



Type. — 0. rubicunda (Stoll). 



*Oxyopsis lobeter" n. kp. 



Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay, January 26, 1905. (William Foster.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to 0. media and obtusa (Stal) from Brazil, but with the teg- 

 mina and wings much longer, the limbs also somewhat longer, while the 

 general size is about the same. The proportions of the exposed sec- 

 tion of the wings is as in obtusa, and the eyes are rectangulate laterad as 

 in that species. The relationship is apparently closer to obtusa than to 

 media. 



General size rather large. Head depressed, very broadly trigonal, 

 occipital outline straight, cephalic section of the occiput flattened, 

 except for four spaced longitudinal depressions, and forming an obtuse 

 angle with the portion of the head ventrad of the insertion of the 

 antennae; ocelli very small, well spaced in a broad unequal triangle; 

 facial scutellum transverse, the dorsal margin straight mesad and 



* Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XII. p. 184. 

 ' Auf3rfTr/p^ destroyer. 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP^ 



[April, 



obliquely emarginate laterad, ventral margin very slightly concave; eyes 



produced laterad, rectangulate, 

 sub-mammilliform. Pronotum 

 '■\ / elongate, the collar contained 



slightly more than three times 

 in the length of the shaft, 

 supra-coxal dilations moderate, 

 the collar hardly constricted 

 cephalad of the expansion; 

 margins serrato-dentate, the 

 serrations becoming fewer and 

 smaller caudad, shaft carinate 

 throughout its length, the 

 carina weak mesad. Abdomen 

 considerably depressed, broad, 

 Tegmen broad, subequal, the 

 width being contained two and 

 a half times in the length; 

 costal margin nearly straight, 

 slightly rounded proximad, 

 obliquely rounded distad, su- 

 tural margin nearly straight, 

 apex rather broadly rounded; 

 costal field very broad, in its 

 widest section two-fifths the 

 width of the entire tegmen, 

 costal veins about twelve in 

 number, strongly oblique and 

 curved toward the apex in the 

 distal section ; humeral vein fur- 

 cate near the apex; median vein with two rami ; discoidal vein with two 

 rami the caudal of which is furcate; stigma distinct, irregular. Wing 

 with the greatest width contained about twice in 

 the length, the portion extending beyond the tip 

 of the tegmen when in repose being trigonal and 

 broader than long. Cephalic coxa nearly three- 

 fifths as long as the pronotum, all the margins 

 serrato-spinose, the ventral margin with spines of 

 two different sizes; cephalic femur nearly three- 

 fourths the length of the pronotum, slender, armed 

 on the external margin with four spines and seven 

 large and nine small ones on the internal margin, 



Fig. 3. — Oxyopsis lobeter n. sp. 

 view of type. (X l|.) 



Dorsal 



Fig. 4. — Oxyop- 

 sis lobeter n. 

 sp. Cephalic 

 view of head. 

 (X 2.) 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



a median line of small tubercles are present on the proximal portion 

 of the ventral surface; cephalic tibia not quite half the length of 

 the femur, armeel with ten spines on the external margin and six- 

 teen on the internal. Median limbs rather slender, of moderate 

 length; caudal limbs very considerably longer than the median. 



General color dull olive green, touched in many places with bice 

 green and jjarrot green. Head touched with yellowish, the eyes seal 

 brown. Proiiotum with considerable brownish on the shaft. Teg- 

 mina passing from nearly bottle green proximad and on a section of the 

 costal area through pea green to apple green in the distal half of the 

 discoidal area and oil green in the costal section; hyaline intersticas 

 limited to the pea green area and the apple gi-een section immediately 

 adjoining it in the discoidal field ; stigma touched with brown. Wings 

 with the exposed section coriaceous and opaque oil green; remainder 

 of the wings, except a narrow greenish touch along the costal margin, 

 hyaline with the transverse veins rather broadly touched with gamboge 

 yellow. Cephalic femora and tibiae with the principal spines almost 

 entirely blackish-brown, the others touched with the same color. 

 ]\Iedian and caudal limbs with the femora mars brown, the tiljise and 

 tarsi oil green. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 61.5 mm. 



Length of prouotum, 24.5 



Greatest width of pronotum, 5 " 



Length of tegmen, 32 



Greatest width of tegmen, 12 



Greatest width of costal field, 5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 17.2 



Length of median femur, 15 



Length of caudal femur, 19 



A paratypic female, taken December 20, 1904, is essentially similar 

 to the type though slightly larger. The color pattern of the tegmina 

 is not as marked in it as in the type and the hyaline interstices more 

 numerous and extensive. 



PHASMIDJE. 

 BACTERIINiE. 

 CEROYS Serville. 

 ♦Ceroys coronatus (Thunberg). 



1815. P[hasma] coronata Thunberg, Mem. I' Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Pet^rsb., V, 

 p. 299. [Xo locality.] 



1 9 . December, 1904. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



As far as the brief original description goes this specimen appears to 

 represent Thimberg's species. In the absence of any recent informa- 

 tion on Thimberg's original specimen of this species, the individual 

 in hand may justly be considered the same as coronata until further 

 knowledge disproves or substantiates the association. 



Measurements of the Sapucay Specimen. 



Length of body, 106 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 



Length of mesonotum, 27.5 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), . . . 18 " 



Length of abdomen, 49.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 20.5 " 



Length of median femur, 15.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 21 " 



CLITUMNIN.E. 

 STELEOXIPHUS' n. gen. 



Type. — S. catastates n. sp. 



A member of the Clitumninae and related to Paraleptynia and Cera- 

 tiscus Caudell, both described from Sapucay. The genus Paraleptynia 

 was based on a male individual, while a female is the only available 

 representative of the new genus. The antennse are shorter than in 

 Paralepttjnia and with some of the segments of different proportions, 

 while the general slender form agrees with that genus. The chief 

 character of Ceratiscus, which was based on a female, is the elongate 

 opercule which is also present in Steleoxiphus, although the form of the 

 latter is by no means as robust, being slender as in Paraleptynia with 

 the limbs not lobed or serrate. The character of the antennae is more 

 similar to that of Ceratiscus than of Paraleptynia. 



Form very elongate; surface glabrous. Head with the eyes very 

 small ; antennae very little longer than the head and pronotum, proximal 

 joint over twice as long as broad, strongly depressed laterad and 

 proximad, second joint more rounded and hardly half the length of the 

 proximal, third joint similar to the second but slightly longer, the 

 fourth to sixth joints similar to the second and from the seventh they 

 evenly increase in length distad. Mesonotum and metanotum (includ- 

 ing median segment) subequal in length; median segment longer 

 than broad, Subgenital opercule produced into a compressed, elongate, 

 hastate process. Limbs slender, unarmed. 



' ^Trfkri^ post ; f '^ttf , sword. 




1907.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



163 



(William Foster.) 



*Steleoxiphu8 catastatee* n. sp. 



Type: ? ; Sapiicay, Paraguay. ^larch 5, 1905 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Size medium. Head slender, subparallel, the caudal width contained 

 about two and a half times in the length; occiput w'ith a very fine 

 median longitudinal impressed line 

 and a lateral one extending caudad 

 from each eye; eyes subcircular, 

 strongly flattened when viewed 

 dorsad; ocelli distinct but small and 

 placed in a large triangle between and 

 immediately caudad of the antennae. 

 Pronotum slender, slightly com- 

 pressed mesad, a distinct transverse 

 and a less distinct longitudinal im- 

 pressed line present. Mesonotum 

 nearly five times the length of the 

 pronotum, regularly but slightly ex- 

 panding caudad. Metanotum about 

 equal to the mesonotum in length, 

 subequal in width except for a very 

 slight caudal expansion; median seg- 

 ment about a third as long as the 

 remainder of the metanotum, and in 

 its own length nearly twice its width. 

 Abdomen with the proximal seven 

 segments distinctly longitudinal and 

 increasing in length from the first to 

 the sixth, the seventh being shorter 

 than the sixth and about equal to the 

 first ; eighth and ninth segments sub- 

 equal, each hardly two-thirds the 

 length of the seventh, fifth to eighth 

 segments tectate, ninth tectate and 

 carinate dorsad; supra-anal plate 

 very small, trigonal; cerci simple, 

 styliform, about two and a half times 

 the length of the supra-anal plate; 

 subgenital opercule strongly compressed, the lateral surfaces con- 



Fig. 5. — Steleoxiphus catastates n. 

 gen. and sp. Dorsal \iew of 

 type. Natural size. 



* KaraffT.TT^/r, an establisher. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



cave, apex acute, surface finely 

 marked with longitudinal linear 

 series of minute punctures. Ceph- 

 alic femora equal to the length 

 Fig. e.—Steleoxiphus catastates n. gen. o^ mesonotum and half of the 

 and sp. Lateral \iew of apex of metanotum, proximal flexure dis- 

 abdomenof tj-pe. (x 2.) ..• x i i. n • j f ^-u 



tinct but small, remamder oi the 



femur multicarinate; cephalic tibise 

 slightly shorter than the femora; cephalic tarsi with the metatarsus 

 distinctly longer than the remaining joints. Median femora about 

 equal to the metanotum in length; median tibise somewhat shorter 

 than the femora; median tarsi with the metatarsus very slightly shorter 

 than the remaining tarsal joints. Caudal femora extending to the 

 middle of the fifth abdominal segment; tibiiie distinctly but not very 

 greatly shorter than the femora; tarsi with the metatarsus about equal 

 to the remaining tarsal joints. 



General color apple green, becoming oil green on the limbs and 

 touched with ochraceous on the ventral section of the head, and also on 

 the presternum, cephalic and caudal sections of the mesosternum and 

 cephalic section of the metasternum and a narrow ventral median line on 

 the abdomen is of the same color. The subgenital opercule and cephalic 

 tarsi are chiefly pale ochraceous, while the ochraceous on the caudal 

 section of the mesosternum is overlaid with a brownish spot. Eyes 

 vinaceous-cinnamon, antennae ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 97 mm. 



Length of antenna, ... + 8.1 " 



Length of pronotum, 3.2 " 



Length of mesonotum, 17.2 '' 



Length of metanotum (including median segment), ... 18 " 



Length of median segment, 4.5 " 



Length of abdomen 42.5 " 



Length of subgenital opercule, 24.5 " 



Length of cephalic femur, 26 " 



Length of median femur, 17.8 '' 



Length of caudal femur, 22 " 



The type is unique. 



There is a possibility that this species is the female of Paraleptynia 

 fosteri Caudefl, known only from the male, but it does not appear right or 

 proper to assume that such strikingly different antennal characters 

 exist in the sexes of the same species. The possibility exists, however 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 165 



ami it remains for further collections and observations to accurately 

 establish the true relationship of the two forms. 



PSEUDOPHASMIX/E. 



OLCYPHIDES Griirmi. 



*01cyphides fasciatus (iniy. 



l>.8."i. P[hasma] fascialum Grav, Svnop. Spec. In.s. Yarn. Plia.sni., p. 24. 

 [Brazil.] 



1 9 . December, 15)04. 



This specimen answers the description of the species cjuite well. As 

 no measurements were given in the original description the following 

 may be of interest: 



Length of body, 71 mm. 



Length of antenna, 68 " 



Length of pronotum 4 " 



Length of mesonotum, 7.2 " 



Length of tegmen, 5 " 



Length of wing, 44.5 " 



*01cyphides hopii (Cray). 



1S35. P[hasmo] Hopil Grav, Svnop. Spec. Ins. Fani. Plia.sin., p. 25. 

 [Brazil.] 



I d". February, 1902. 



Wliether this specimen is the other sex of the species here called 

 fasciatus or distinct cannot be positively determined from the material 

 in hand. It agrees quite well with the brief description of hopii, and 

 differs from fasciatus, as here understood, in having a much smaller 

 tegminal protuberance, lateral lines of yellowish present on the thorax 

 and distinctly though narrowl}- annulate antennae. Whether these 

 are specific or sexual characters remains to be determined. 



ACRIDID^. 



ACliYDIIX.K. 



TETTIGIDEA Scudder. 

 Tettigidea multicostata Bolivar. 



LSs7. r['/^;/'</''"] "'"^''^os/o/o Bolivar. Ann. Soc.'Entom.'Belff XXXI i> 

 299. [Brazil.] • - ^ > •• i • 



9 9. February and March, 1905. 



This series has been compared with representatives from Caiza, 

 l>olivia, Salta and Tucuman, Argentina. 



PBoscopix.i:. 



CEPHALOC(EMA Sirvillc. 

 CephaloccBma oostulata Burmeister. 



II c , 13 ? . November, 1901 ; Februarv and .ALarch, 1905. 

 12 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The variation in size exliibited by this series, in addition to the sUght 

 variation in the comparative length of the rostrum, would at first sight 

 appear to be due to the presence of two or more species. However, no 

 line of demarcation in size or in the number of tibial spines, the latter 

 extremely variable in individuals, can be recognized, and for the 

 present at least all are considered costulata. The strength of the 

 abdominal strigte is another character of variability in this material, 

 and two of the female specimens appear to be what Bruner has pro- 

 visionally called hurmeisteri.^ 



ACRIDIN.E. 



The material belonging to this subfamily has been studied in two 

 previous papers,^*^ the species being merely listed here, with any com- 

 ments brought out by an examination of determinations in Prof. 

 Bruner' s later paper {vide antea). 



HYALOPTERYX Charpentier. 

 Hyalopteryx rufipennis Charpentier. 



Bruner has described as H. spccularis ^^ the form referred by the 

 author to Charpentier's species. 



EUTRYXALIS Bruner. 

 *Eutryxali3 gracilis (Giglio-Tos). 



TRUXALIS Fabricius. 

 Truxalis brevicomis (Limueus). 



ORPHULA Stai. 

 Orphula pagana (Stai). 



AMBLYTROPIDIA S»al. 

 Amblytropidia robusta Bruner. 



The specimens referred with some little doubt to A. ferruginosa Stal 

 by the author belong to Bruner's recently described species. 



*Amblytropidia cbapadensis Rehn. 



ORPHULINA Giglio-Tos. 

 Orphulina pulcbella Giglio-Tos. 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 619. 



'" Notes on South American Grasshoppers of the Subfamily Acridinte (Acrididae), 

 with Descriptions of New Genera and Species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, pp. 

 371-391. May, 1906. Studies in South and Central American Acridinae (Orth- 

 optera), with the Descriptions of a New Genus and Six New Species. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, pp. 10-50. May 19, 1900. 



^' Bruner's H. lameUipes from Sao Paulo, Brazil, in all probability equals H. 

 aainus Rehn. 




1907. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



ORPHULELLA Gislio-Tos. 

 *Orphulella gracilis Gislio-Tos. 

 Orphulella punctata (De Gecr). 



DICHROMORPHA Morse. 



Dichromorpha auatralis Bnnier. 



I'JOO. D[ichro»wrpha] australis Bruner, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., 

 p. 28. [Carcaraiia, Argentina.] 



1 d", 1 ?. February, 1901. 



TOXOPTERUS Bolivar. 

 Toxopterus miniatus Bolivar. 



FENESTRA Cxiglio-Tcs. 

 Fenestra bohlsii CTi,glio-Tos. 



AMBLYSCAPHEUS Bruner. 

 Amblyscapheus glaucipes (Rehn). 



Staurorhectus glaucipes Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900 p. 34 figs. 



9 and 10. May 19, 1906. 

 Amblyscapheiis lineatus Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mu.-., XXX, p 6.33 June 



1906.'2 



The relationship of these two descriptions is obvious. 



STAURORHECTUS Uiglio-Tos. 

 Staurorhectus longicornis Giglio-Tos. 



' ISONYX Rehn. 



*Isonyx paraguayensis Rflm. 



EUPLECTROTETTIX Bruner. 

 Euplectrotettix ferrugineus Bruner. 



SCYLLINA Stll. 

 ^Scyllina brunneri (Giglio-Tos). 

 Scyllina brasiliensis (Bruner). 

 Scyllina conspersa (Bruner). 

 Scyllina varipes (Bruner). 



(EDIPODIN.E. 

 C(ELOPTERNA sm. 



1873. Coelopterna Stal, Ofvers. at" K. Vetensk.-.\kad. Forhandlingar, XXX, 

 No. 4, p. 53. 



Type. — Acrydium acuminatum De Geer. 



"Received in Philadelpliia, June 6; probable exact date one or two days 

 previous. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



*Coelopterna acuminata (De Geer). 



1773. Acrydium acumiiiatum De Geer. Mem. I'Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 501, pi. 

 XLII, fig. 10. [Surinam.] 



1 d". January, 1903. 



This peculiar species has been recorded from several localities in 

 Paraguay. No comparison has been made with Surinam material. 



PYRGOMORPHIN^. 



OSSA Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Ossa Giglio-To.s, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 

 184, p. 15, pi. fig. 2. 



Type. — 0. himaculata Giglio-Tos. 



Ossa bimaculata Giglio-Tos. 



1894. 0[.sso] bimaculata Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, p. 15, pi. fig. 2. [Resistencia nel Chaco, Argentina.] 



12 d", 12 9 . December to March. 



All of the female specimens are slightly, and some considerably, 



larger than the measurements of the type given by Giglio-Tos. 



OMMEXECHA Serville. 

 1831. Ommexecha Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 285. 

 Type. — 0. virens Serville, 



♦Ommexecha virens Serville. 



1831. Ommexecha virens Ser^alle, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 286. [Buerfos 

 Ayres.] 



4 9 . May, 1902. 



One of these specimens is distinctly true virens as far as color is con- 

 cerned, the others apparently being Blanchard's 0. servillei, which 

 probably is only a brown phase of virens. The only other conclusion 

 that can be reached from the material before me is, that servillei has 

 two color phases represented in this series, distinct, however, from 

 virens which should be retained as a poorly understood form. This 

 view does not appear as likely as the synonymy of servillei with virens. 

 No structural characters separate the two color forms as far as available 

 material goes, the strength of asperities and ridges in this genus being 

 subject to considerable variation. 



Bruner has recorded the brown phase from Asuncion and San 

 Bernardino, Paraguay, 



*Ommexecha germari Burmeister. 



1838. 0[m7nexecha] German Burmeister, Handb. d. Entom., bd. II, abtl;. 

 II, pt. I, p. 655. [Brazil.] 



9 (5", 10 9 . February and March, 1905; May, 1902. 




1007.] N'ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Tliis series cxliibits sonic variation in size and length of the tegmina 

 and wings, the two sexes sharing ahke in the same. 



This species has also been recorded from Porto Allegre (Karsch) and 

 Sfio T.eojtoldo (Bolivar), Rio Grande do Sid, Brazil. 



LOCUSTIN.'E. 

 PKOCOLPIA stai. 

 1S73. Procolpia Stiil, Ofv. K. ^'ctcnsl<..-Akad. Forhandl., 1873, Xo. 4, p. .52. 

 Type. — Xiphicera emarginata Serville. 



Procolpia minor Giglio-Tos. 



189-4. P[rocolpin] minor Giglio-Tos, BoUott. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 



Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 17. [Colonia Risso, Rio Apa, Paraguay.] 

 1906. Munatia australis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., XXX, p. 644. 



[Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



8 d", 6 9 . February and March, 1905. 



On comparison of this series with the two descriptions cited above, it 

 is very evident that both refer to the same species. "\Miile not abso- 

 lutely typical Procolpia in the form of the apex of the tegmina, the 

 species is certainly nearer Procolpia emarginata than Munatia punctata, 

 the type of the latter genus. The form of the wing is distinctly that 

 of Procolpia, and the apex of the tegmen in every specimen shows a 

 slight oblique sutural truncation. 



PRIONOLOPHA Stdl. 

 1873. Prionolopha Stal, Recensio Urthopterorum, I, pp. 27, 44. 

 Type. — Gryllus (Bulla) serratus Linnaeus. 



Prionoloplia serrata (Linnreus). 



1758. [Gryllus (Bulla)] serratus Linna?us, Svst. Nat., X ed., p. 427. 

 ["Indiis."] 



10 d^, 12 9 . January to March, 1905. 



These specimens exhibit some slight variation in size, and in the 

 shade of the green base color and of the bars of the sides of the head 

 and pronotum. The latter are in some cases greenish yellow, in others 

 pinkish, and again dull purplish much darker than the base color. 



ALCAMENES Stdl.i' 



1878. Alcamenes Stal, Biliang till K. Sveuska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, V, No. 

 4, pp. 14,54. 



Type. — A. granulatus StM. 



" Giglio-Tos's Prionolopha hrevipennis (Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anaf. Comp. Torino, 

 XV, No. 377, p. 3) appears to be a member of this genua. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Alcamenes cristatus Bnincr. 



1906. Alcamenes cristatus Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 650. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



2 c?, 5 9 . February and March, 1905. 



As suggested by Bruner {supra, pp. 650-651) the genus Alcamenes 

 is closely related to Prio?7oZop/?a, undoubtedly closer than it is to the 

 genus Tropinotus. 



TROPINOTUS Servillc. 

 1831 . Tropinotus Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 272. 

 Included Gryllus serratus Fabr., T. discoideus and ohsoleius Serville. 

 The first was removed to Prionolopha in 1873, the third to Colpolopha 

 the same year, and discoideus can be considered the type. 



Tropinotus discoideus Serville. 



1831. Tropinotus discoideus Ser\'ille, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 273. 

 [Brazil.] 



11 d", 12 9 . February and March, 1905. 



This series contains a few specimens which have the lateral portions 

 of the disk of the pronotum, the dorsum of the head and the anal field 

 of the tegmina bright green. The maculations of the tegmina are 

 subject to a great amount of variation and in a few specimens are 

 almost absent, but in the great majority are distinct though faint. 



The presence or absence of the lateral apical spine on the caudal 

 tibiae appears to be of little or no value to separate genera in this 

 group, as it is not constantly present in the same species, and even 

 may be present on one limb and absent on the other of the same 

 individual. Representatives of this species present this latter condi- 

 tion. 



♦Tropinotus guarani n. sp. 



Types: c? and 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 25 (d^), March 

 9, 1905 ( 9 ). (William Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to T. regidaris Bruner, but differing in the hea\4er build, the 

 less evenly arched pronotal crest, the broader disk of the pronotum, 

 the slightly heavier limbs, shorter tegmina and the less regularly 

 maculate character of the same. 



Size medium; form robust; surface of body rugulose. Head with 

 the occiput distinctly inflated, a distinct median carina continuing 

 cephalad to the angle of the fastigium, this being accompanied by 

 lateral carinse lower and indefinite in character but constricted at the 

 highest point of the swell of the occiput, and connected with the 

 median carina by numerous low transverse ridges producing a scalari- 




19U7, 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



form pattern; interspace between the eyes no narrower than the 

 fastigiuni ; fastigium sHghtly acutc-angulatc in the male, rcctangulate 

 in the female, the width being nearly that of the eye, between the 

 points of greatest width the fastigium is bounded caudad by a low 

 transverse carina, hardly indicated in the male, ccphalad of which the 

 disk is slightly excavate ; when viewed laterad the angle of the fastigium 

 is slightly rounded into the facial outline which is distinctly but not 

 greatly retreating; frontal costa very narrow dorsad, much more so 







Fig. 7. — Tropinotus guarani ii. sp. Lateral view of female tj-pe. (X 2.) 



comparatively in the female than in the male, from whence it regularly 

 but gradualh^ expands except for a short subequal portion in the 

 vicinity of the ocellus, in the male the costa is punctate but not sulcate, 

 in the female it is sulcate for a moderate distance dorsad and ventrad 

 of the ocellus, punctate elsewhere; eyes subovate, somewhat prominent 

 in the male when viewed dorsad, in length distinctly (c?) or slightly ( 9 ) 

 longer than the infraocular sulcus; antennaj in length slightly exceed-- 

 ing the pronotum in both sexes, slightly depressed proximad. Pro- 

 notum with the greatest width contained slightly less than twice (d^) 

 or once and two-thirds ( 9 ) in the length of the same; cephalic margin 

 slightly acute-angulate (6^) or rectangulate ( 9 ), the margins slightly 

 concave laterad; caudal margin acute-angulate in both sexes but 

 sharper in the male than in the female and with the lateral portions 

 concave; dorsal crest moderately high, the greatest height being on the 

 metazona which is arcuate somewhat independent of the prozona and 

 in the male being higher comparatively and more arcuate than in the 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Figs. 8 and 9. — Tropinotus guarani 

 n. sp. Dorsal view of head and 

 pronotum of male and female 

 types. (X 2.) 



female, the prozonal portion increasing in height caudad but slightly 



sinuate in the female, transverse sulci 

 moderately impressed, the caudal one 

 distinctly sunken into the sides of the 

 crest, prozona somewhat shorter than 

 the metazona; lateral carinse sharp, 

 slightly lamellate caudad, cut by 

 three sulci; lateral lobes with the 

 dorsal length slightly greater than the 

 depth; almost the entire surface of 

 the pronotum is punctate, usually 

 strongly so, and the metazona of the 

 disk, particularly in the male, bears 

 papilliform tubercles. Tegmina slight- 

 ly over twice the length of the prono- 

 tum, rather broad projDortionately, 

 costal margin with a very consider- 

 able proximal lobe, the proximo-distal 

 length of which is not great in pro- 

 portion to the depth ; apex narrowed 

 somewhat, obliquel}'' rotundato-truncate. Prosternal spine com-' 

 pressed, apex narrowed and directed caudad as usual in the genus; 

 interspace between the mesosternal lol^es distinctly longer than broad 

 in the male, subquadrate in the female; interspace between the 

 metasternal lobes small and subquadrate in the male, transverse 

 in the female. Abdomen with the' dorsal segments rugoso-punctate. 

 Cephalic and median limits rather short, the femora of the male, 

 particularly the cephalic, distinctly inflated. Caudal femora robust, 

 the distal portion, however, comparatix'ely slender when the robust 

 proximal two-thirds is considered, the femoral length being about 

 three-fourths that of the tegmina and the greatest width is contained 

 nearly four times in the length, dorsal, ventral and lateral carina^ 

 serrate, particularly the dorsal, paginte with the pattern very dis- 

 tinctly imbricate, the appearance being that of overlapping plates, the 

 shape being also variable and seldom the usual Acrid oid chevron; 

 caudal tibise very slightly shorter than the femora, very slightly 

 sinuate, lateral margins with nine to ten spines, internal margins with 

 ten spines. 



General color bistre mingled and blended with vinaceous-cinnamon 

 in a pattern which presents but few sharply defined contrasts of the 

 two colors. Dorsum of the pronotum in the female margined laterad by 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF I'HILADELPHIA. 173 



a siibequal baud of bice green, on the mctazoua. liowever, this border 

 becomes fainter caudad until it is not apparent, the median section of 

 the pronotum is almost clove brown. Anal field and a portion of the 

 adjoining discoidal field bice green, absent, however, in the distal 

 fourth; pattern of the tegmina formed by five distinct and two or 

 more faintly indicated transverse bars of bistre, the pale bars distad 

 and none encroaching on the costal field or the green dorsal section. 

 Wings with the disk carmine. ^Vntro-lateral carinse of the caudal 

 femora with regularl}- spaced dark blotches, the dorso-lateral face 

 quite dark; caudal tibice wood brown in the male, of the same color 

 but strongly sprinkled with bistre in the female. 



Measurements. 



& 9 



Length of body 27.5 mm. 38.8 mm. 



Length of pronotum 10.7 " 12.5 " 



Oreatestdorsal width of pronotum, . . 5.5 " 7 " 



Length of tegmen, 23 " 29 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 4.5 " 6 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.2 " 21.4 " 



A series of three topotypic females have been examined in additicni 

 to the types. In size these individuals var}^ somewhat, one being 

 slightly larger than the type, the others of about the same size with 

 slightly shorter tegmina. In color the variation is chiefly in individual 

 variation in shades of brown, the pattern remaining much the same, 

 the green areas being brown as in the male in two of the three speci- 

 mens. The caudal tibiae are light in two and dark in one of the para- 

 typic specimens examined. 



Tropinotus regularis BnuuT. 



1905. Tropinotus regularis Bruner, Ent. Xews, XVI, p. 214. [Sapucay» 

 Paraguaj'.] 



7 c?, 13 $ . February and March, 1905. 



This series exhibits considerable variation in the size and intensity 

 of the tegminal blotches. The phase with green on the lateral portions 

 of the disk of the pronotum and on the anal and contiguous portion 

 of the discoidal field of the tegmina as described by Bruner." is repre- 

 sented by five females. 

 Tropinotus Isevipes St4I. 



1878. T[rapidonotus] I(svipes Still, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Alcad. 

 Hancll., V, Xo. 9, p. 20. [Sao Leopoldo, Brazil; Argentine Republic] 



»* Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 647. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



10 6", 7 9 . December, 1904, to February, 1905. 



This series shows some slight variation in size in the male sex. 



Tropinotus lineatus Bruncr. 



1906. Tropinotus lineatus Brunei-, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 648. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



2 d", 2 9. February and March, 1905. 



Three of these specimens are in the brown phase, while one female is 

 colored Avith green as mentioned in the original description. In the 

 latter specimen the characteristic longitudinal pale bar is light green, 

 and not yellowish as in the other individuals. 



EL.ffi:OCHLORA SUl. 



1S73. Elocochlora Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandlingar, 1873, No. 4, 

 p. 52. 



Type. — Gryllus scaber Thunberg. 



Elaeochlora viridicata (Serville). 



1839. Xiphicera viridicata Serville, Orthopteres, p. 614. [Buenos Ayres.] 



9 d", 4 9. December, 1904; February and March, 1905. 



These specimens are not tj'-pical of viridicata, but are not strong!}^ 

 enough differentiated to warrant separation. When compared with 

 Buenos Ayi-es and Carcarana, Argentina material the Sapucay males 

 are seen to have distinctly shorter tegmina and wings, while the females 

 have these organs slightly shorter. The Sapucay males range from 

 19.5 to 26 millimeters in the length of the tegmina, while two Argentina 

 males measure 32.5 and 34 millimeters. 



CHROMACRIS Walker. 



•"Chromacris stolli (Pictet and Saussure). 



1887. R[homalea] Stolli Pictet and Saussure, Mittheil. Schw. Ent. Gesell.. 

 VII, p. 351. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



9 d", 10 9 . December, 1904; January to March, 1905. 



These specimens are clearly stolli and show no important differences 

 from Ai-gentina material of the species. When compared with British 

 Guianan specimens of C. miles the Sapucay material is seen to be dis- 

 tinct. 



ZONIOPODA Stai. 



1873. Zoniopoda Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 32, 51. 

 Included Z. tarsaia (Serville) and emarginata Stal, of which the first 

 may be considered the tj-pe. 



Zoniopoda iheringi (Pictet .and Saussure). 



1887. Z[oniopoda] Iheringi Pictet and Saussure, Mittheil. Schw. Ent. 

 Gesell., VII, p. 3.57. [Southern Brazil.] 



12 'j", 10 9 . December, 1904; February and March, 1905. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF niTLADELPIIIA. 175 



This scries is quite uniform in size ami color, the only appreciable 

 variation being in the color of the antcnnic and of the caudal tibiae. 

 The antennae are uniform ochraceous in some individuals, of the same 

 color slighth' washed proximad with umber, there narrowly annulate 

 with paler in others and also uniform umber annulate through the 

 length but more distinctly so proximad. The color of the eyes vary 

 from ochraceous to deep walnut brown. The caudal tibiae are strongly 

 purplish-pink in some specimens, in others whitish and numerous speci- 

 mens are lightly washed with pinkish. 



The typical specimen from Rio Grande do Sul mentioned in a previous 

 paper^^ has the median carina of the pronotum more elevated than the 

 Sapucay specimens. 



Zoniopoda similis Brunor. 



190G. Zoniopoda similis Bruiier, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 6.52. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



9 d", 4 ? . February and March, 1905. 



These specimens are cjuite uniform in size and coloration, in a few 

 the yellowish tint being more pronounced than in others. The carmine 

 caudal tarsi are quite striking. 



Zoniopoda oruentata (Blauchard). 



1S46.'* Acridium cruentatum Blanchard, in D'Orbignv, Vov. dans rAmt-r, 

 Mend., YI, pt. II, p. 216, pi. XXVII, fig. 5. [No locality.] 



1900. Z[oniopoda] tarsata Bruncr, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argent., p. 61, 

 fig. 26. (Not of SerAille.) 



1906. Zoniopoda tarsata Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 652, pi. 

 XXXVII, fig. 2. (Not of Serville.) 



10 c?, 9 9 . January to March, 1905. 



This species, which has been confused with Serville's tarsata from 

 Brazil, differs from the latter in having less red on the head, the entire 

 portion of the latter caudad of the interocular region being red in 

 tarsata, in having the clypeus, labrum and mandil)les light in color 

 instead of solid black as in tarsata, the cephalic and median limbs 

 variegated wdth yellow, red and olive-green instead of red, orange and 

 black or blackish, and the proximal dark bar on the caudal femora 

 weak and diffuse instead of solid and clearl}^ defined on the dorsal half 

 of the limb. 



Two females of this series have the caudal femora with very 

 weak dark maculations and annulations, the actual color of them 

 being oil green, while the blackish genicular maculations are as dis- 

 tinct as in the other specimens. In some individuals the second joint 



>' Ent. News, XVI, p. 38. 



" Vide Sherborn, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 7th ser., VII, p. 389. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of the caudal tarsi is hardly darker than the other tarsal joints, the 

 tarsi then appearing almost uniform carmine. The eyes vary from 

 ochraceous to seal brown in color. 



Zoniopoda omnicolor (Blanchard). 



1S4Q.^* Amdium omnicolor Blanchard, in D'Orbigny, Vov. dans I'Amer. 

 Mend., VI, pt. II, p. 216, pi. XXVII, fig. 3. [No locality.] 



10 d", 9 9 . December, 1904, to March, 1905. 



This series exhibits considerable variation in size, the males ranging 

 in length of body from 29 to 37 millimeters, the females from 44 to 52. 



Zoniopoda exilipes Bruiier. 



1906. Zoniopoda exilipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 654- 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



10 d", 8 ? . February and IVIarch, 1905. 



This series is quite constant in size and color. The large yellow 

 lateral sections of the subgenital plate are very conspicuous, the color 

 there being the same as on the head and more yellowish than on the 

 limbs and pronotum. 



PRIONAGRIS Stal. 



1S78. Prionacris Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, V. 

 No. 4, pp. 19, 55. 



Type. — P. compressa Stal. 

 *Prionaoris erosa n. sp. 



Type: c? ; Sapucay, Paraguay. March 15, 1906. (William Foster.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to P. compressa from New Grenada, but of different propor- 

 tions and with the wings colored differentl3^ 



Size moderately large; form elongate; surface of thorax ruguloso- 

 punctate, of head smooth or finely punctulate. Head broad, the 

 length distinctly less than the width, the breadth across the eyes 

 being almost twice the length; occiput rounded, but little elevated 

 dorsad of the eyes, gently declivent to the fastigium, smooth, the 

 width between the eyes but little less than the length of the eye; 

 fastigium rectangulate, not broader than the space between the eyes, 

 margins not at all carinate, disk slightly depressed transversely, a 

 longitudinal median depression marked only at the immediate 

 apex, when viewed laterad the frontal costa rounds into the 

 facial outline which is slightly arcuate; frontal costa very broad, 

 defined by distinct lateral margins only in the dorsal half, the 

 ventral section being also somewhat narrower than the dorsal, not 



i« Vide Sherborn, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 7th ser., VII, p. 389. 




1007.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



Silicate, but strongly punctulate as is the whole facial region ; eyes ovate, 

 quite prominent when viewed dorsad; antennir slightly longer than 

 the head and pronotum together, slender. J'ronotum with the 

 length about equal to the vertical depth of the head ; the caudal width 



Fig. 10. — Prionacris erosa n. sp. Lateral view of tj'pe. 



of the disk contained about one and one-half times in the length of the 



same; cephalic margin obtuse-angulate, caudal margin slightly acute- 



angulate, the immediate apex sharp; median carina moderately arcuate 



in general outline, dentato-scrrate, particularly on the metazona, the 



principal sulcus and the prozonal sulci deeply cutting the crest into 



three parts on the prozona; principal transverse sulci three in number, 



the disk rounding into the lateral lobes on 



the prozona, a distinct but well rounded 



shoulder present on the metazona; lateral 



lobes with the dorsal length about equal 



to the depth, the cephalic and caudal 



margins subparallel for more than half 



their length, ventral margin truncate 



caudad, slightly oblique cephalad. Teg- 



mina about two and two-thirds times the 



length of the head and pronotum together, exceeding the apex of the 



abdomen by slightly less than the length of the pronotum, the greatest 



width being two-thirds the distance from the base; costal margin with 



a slight proximal lobe and arcuate in the distal third, sutural nirirgin 



Fig. 11. — Prionacris erosa n. 

 sp. Wing of type. Nat- 

 ural size. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



nearly straight, apex distinctl}^ oblique truncate, the immediate apex 

 narrowly rounded; mediastine vein strong, nearl}' straight; anterior 

 ulnar vein sinuate, after bending ventrad from the posterior ulnar 

 vein it recurves and continues closely parallel to the same; intercalary 

 area broad and filled with a network of irregularly meshlike nervures. 

 Wings elongate, narrow, apex rounded acute-angulate; discoidal vein 

 with two rami, the proximal diverging before the middle, the distal 

 separating near the distal third, the proximal furcate; ulnar field 

 occupied by a closely placed scalariform pattern of parallel transverse 

 veins numbering about forty-five, those in the narrow proximal section 

 being very closely placed, while the distal section is occupied by the 

 regular vein pattern; anal vein distinctly sinuate a short distance 

 distad of the middle ; anterior axillary field narrow, veined much as the 

 ulnar field and bent under the inflated posterior axillary field, the 

 latter broad, with a scalariform pattern of about thirty veins, as a rule 

 more spaced than in the ulnar field, the vein bounding this area caudad 

 being very much thickened and slightly arcuate. Abdomen sub- 

 cylindrical, subgenital plate conical, somewhat compressed, slightly 

 carinate ventrad; cerci small, styliform, the apex slightly bent ventrad; 

 supra-anal plate slightly compressed, the median depression sub- 

 fusiform with margins high, apex acute. Prosternal spine strongly 

 compressed, blunt, directed slightly cephalad; interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes distinctly longitudinal, narrower than one of the 

 lobes; interspace between the metasternal lobes much smaller, sub- 

 quadrate; the whole of the sternal region slightly but distinctly concave. 

 Cephalic and median limbs very short, robust; caudal femora slightly 

 more than half the length of the tegmina, thick and with the pre- 

 genicular constriction but little marked, greatest width contained 

 nearly five times in the length, carinse low and hardly marked, paging 

 with the pattern very slightly sculptured and with little resemblance 

 to the typical Acridoid chevrons; caudal tibiae very slightly shorter 

 than the femora, very slightly sinuate, lateral margins with ten spines 

 one of which is apical, internal margins with eleven spines, internal 

 spurs moderately long, subequal, the whole of the dorsal surface of the 

 tibise clothed with long white pile ; caudal tarsi quite elongate. 



General color mummy brown, mingled and sometimes contrasted 

 with wood brown. Head wood brown laterad , washed with russet dorsad 

 and with a narrow median bluish line, face of the general color, eyes 

 burnt umber; antennae dragon's blood red proximad, brick red distad. 

 Pronotum with the margin of the crest and portions of the ventral 

 section of the lateral lobes touched with bistre. Tegmina with four 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



poorly (lofmod trausvorso liuht bars on the proximal two-tliirds, distal 

 thiixl hyaline, the longitudinal veins dark and the transverse and 

 adventitious veins pale. Wings with the disk malachite green bordered 

 toward the periphery by an arch of bistre which touches none of the 

 margins; anterior field hyaline witli the veins dark. Caudal femora 

 with a touch of cla3^-color on the dorsal and ventral faces, laterad 

 somewhat hoary, genicular arch blackish, the remainder of the genicular 

 region burnt sienna; caudal tibia crimson, faint laterad and touched 

 with blackish on the genicular section, particularly on the internal 

 face, spines and spurs tipped with black; caudal tarsi washed with 

 crimson. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 41 mm. 



Breadth of head across eyes, 7.8 " 



Breadth immediately ventrad of eyes, 6.8 " 



Length of pronotum 9.2 " 



Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum, . .... 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 37 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 7 " 



Length of caudal femur, 19.5 " 



The type is unique. 



DIPONTHUS stai. 

 18G0. Diponthus Stal, Kongl. Svenska Fregat. Eugenies Resa, Ins., p. 328. 

 Included Acridium nigro-conspersum Stal and Acridium electum 

 Serville, of which the first may be considered the type. 



Diponthus paraguayensis Bruiier. 



1900. Diponthufi paraguayensis Brunor, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. 

 657. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



9 cJ*, 11 ?. December, 1902 and 1904; January, 1903; February 

 and March, 1905. 



This series shows that considerable variation is present in the 

 intensity of the base color of the body and limbs, this being rather 

 warm brown in some and decidedly olive green in others. The femoral 

 bars are less distinct in some specimens than in others, due in the 

 poorly contrasted specimens to a suffusion of the light bars with olive 

 green. One specimen is washed with rosy red, a condition previously 

 noted in species of this genus by Pictet and Saussure. 



LEPTYSMA St&l. 

 1873. Leptysma Stal, Recensio Orthoptororuin, I, pp. 42, 8.5. 

 Included L. filiformis (Serv.). obsciira (Thunberg) and marginicoUis 

 (Serv.), of which the first may be considered the iy^e. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



*Leptysma filiformis (Serville). 



1839. Opmmala fiUjormis Serville, Orthopteres, p. 593. [North of the 

 State of Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



5 9 . February and March, 1905. 



One of these specimens is decidedly rosy. 



Leptysma obscura (Thunberg). 



1827. Tr\^uxalis\ obscurus Thunberg, Nova Act. Reg. Soc. Scient. Upsal., 

 IX, p. 79. [Brazil.] 



3 6" , 4 9 . January, 1903 ; February and March, 1905. 



The comparatively shorter head of this species readily separates it 

 from the preceding species, which also has the caudal section of the 

 head somewhat inflated when viewed laterad. 



STENACEIS Walker. 

 Stenacris coccineipes (Bnmer). 



1906. Arnilia coccineipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 659. 

 [San Bernardino, Asuncion and Sapucay, Paraguay; Victoria, Brazil.] 



I c?. March, 1905. 



This specimen has the caudal tibiae uniform red as in the type, but 

 rather pale in color. 



OXYBLEPTELLA Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Oxyhleptella Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, 

 No. 184, p. 33. 



Type. — 0. sagitta Giglio-Tos. 



*Oxybleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Oxyhleptella sagitta Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, p. 33. [Villa Rica, Paraguay.] 



4 6", 5 ?. March, 1905. 



These specimens show a slight variation in size in the female sex. 



STENOPOLA sm. 

 1873. Stenopola Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 42, 83. 

 Type. — Stenopola dorsalis (Thunberg). 



Stenopola bohlsii Giglio-Tos. 



1895. Sitenopola] bohlsii Giglio-Tos. Zoolog. Jahrbiicher, Abth. Syst., VIII, 

 p. 813. [Paraguay.] 



II d", 7 9 . February and March, 1905. 

 This series is quite constant in coloration. 



ADIMANTUS Stal. 



1878. Adimantus Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, V, 

 No. 4, p. 38. 



Type. — Oxija ornatissima Burmeister. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLI'IIIA. 181 



Adimantus vitticeps (Blanclinnl). 



1846. Acridium vitticeps Blanchard, in D'Orbigny, Voy. lAiiiir. Mcrid., 

 VI, pt. II, p. 21G, pi. XXVII, fig. 4. [No locality cited.] 



3(^,4 9. March, 1905. 



This series shows considerable variation in the suffusion of vermihon 

 on the cephahc and median hmbs, and also in the extent and intensity 

 of the same color on the caudal tibife, one specimen having these in the 

 greater part greenish and bluish black. In all the specimens the 

 caudal tibite bear two median, more or less complete, annuli of bluish 

 or bluish black. 



Rurmeister's Oxya oi^notissiina is probably distinct from this species, 

 having, according to the original description, blue wings. 



ZYGOCLISTRON Rehn. 

 1905. Zygoclistron Rehn, Entom. News, XVI, p. 39. 

 Type. — Z. trachystidum Rehn. 

 Zygoclistron traohystictum Rehn. 



1905. ZygocUfitron trachystictum Rehn, Entom. News, X\'I, p. 39, figs. 1, 2 

 and 3. [8apucay, Paraguay.] 



12 c5^, 9 9 . January to March, 1905. 



This series shows that while color variation in the species is sUght, 

 the female sex exhibits a considerable amount of individual variation 

 in size, the smallest measuring 10.2, 19 and 20.5 millimeters in the 

 length of the pronotum, tegmen and caudal femur respectively, the 

 largest having these parts 12.5, 21.5 and 24.5. 

 ♦Zygoclistron superbum n. sp. 



Types: o^ and ?; Sapucay, Paraguay. December 16, 1904 (9), 

 March 5, 1905 (c?). (William Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to Z. trachystictum but differing in the more produced, more 

 acute and more excavate fastigium, the less regularly divergent mar- 

 gins of the frontal costa, the more ovate eyes, the longer tegmina and 

 wings (particularly in the female) and in the presence of maculations 

 on the dorsum of the pronotum. 



Size rather large; form moderately elongate; surface of head and 

 abdomen smooth, of thorax rugulose. Head with the occiput not 

 elevated to the level of the disk of the pronotum, slightly rounded and 

 gently declivent to the fastigium, interocular region slightly narrower 

 than the width of the eye in the male and equal to two-thirds the 

 length of the eye in the female; fastigium with the apical margin slightly 

 acute-angulate in both sexes, the immediate apex sharply defined , disk of 

 the fastigium broader proportionateU'and less defined in the female than 

 in the male, distinctly but not greatly excavate in the male, hardly so in 

 13 




182 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



the female; position of the lateral foveolse filled with irregularly 

 vertical rngse in both sexes; frontal costa represented for a short dis- 

 tance dorsad merely by a high carinate ridge, which, however, distinctly 

 expands with distinct lateral carinse and a distinctly depressed median 

 area, between them the margins in the male are regularly but not 

 strongly expanded to the ocellus, immediately ventrad of which they 

 are sharply constricted but return to their regular trend, in the female 

 they expand more broadly dorsad and in continuing ventrad they 





Fig. 12. — Zygoclistron superhum n. sp. Lateral \-iew of female type. (X H.) 



separate but little more and have no appreciable constriction; eyes 

 ovoid, slightly narrower dorsad, in the male the eyes are moderately 

 prominent when viewed dorsad and in length they are distinctly longer 

 ( C* ) or subecjual to ( 9 ) the inf raocular sulcus ; antennae subequal to 

 ( 9 ) or slightly more than half as long again as ( c? ) the head and 

 pronotum together, slightly depressed proximad. Pronotum moder- 

 ately tectate and slightly inflated on the prozona, flattened except for 

 the median carina on the metazona; cephalic margin broadly obtuse- 

 angulate, the immediate apex blunt; caudal margin obtuse-angulate, 

 the apex blunt and the margins slightly sinuate laterad; greatest 

 caudal width of the disk contained one and a half times in the length ; 

 median carina prominent, slightly arcuate on the prozona and divided 

 into three parts by transverse sulci, the cephalic part longer than the 

 others, on the metazona the carina is slightly elevated cephalad 

 decreasing in height caudad ; prozona without distinct lateral shoulders, 

 metazona with definite but well-roimded shoulders; lateral lobes con- 

 siderably longer dorsad than deep, ventral margin obtuse-angulate, 

 the angle slightly caudad of the middle. Tegmina somewhat exceeding 

 the apex of the abdomen in the male, subequal in the female; costal 




1907.] NATURAL SCIExNfCES OF PHI I.ADEI.PIIl A. 183 



margin -with a very slight proximal dilation, the distal third slightly 

 roundtxl off, apex oblique rotundato-truncate; area between the 

 median and discoidal veins in the middle of the tegmen supplied with 

 ten to twelve transverse regularly placed veins arranged in a scalari- 

 form pattern, this feature being present in both sexes but larger and 

 stronger in the male. Prosternal process slightly bent caudad, slightly 

 inflated distad, rounded, slightly compressed; interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes extremely narrow, the lobes almost attingent in the 

 male, in shape clepsydral; interspace between the metasternal lobes 

 as wide as the mesosternal interspace in the male, considerably wider 

 and sub-cuneiform in the female. Abdomen slightly compressed ; 

 furcula of the male present as very short and broad rounded lobes; 

 supra-anal plate of the male broad and subequal in the proximal two- 

 thirds, distad of this the margins are roundly inciu'ved and then pro- 

 duced into the acute apex, median portion elevated, the proximal sec- 

 tion with an enclosed longitutlinal rectangulate area, the distal section 

 with a pair of converging carina; ccrci elongate, slender, bent falciform 

 in a horizontal plane, the distal half moderately tapering, the median 

 section slender, apex slightly depressed and with the tip sharp and 

 slightly outcurved; subgenital plate compressed, the apex hooked, 

 elevated and lamellate. Cephalic and median limbs short and robust, 

 particularly in the male. Caudal femora hardly robust, the greatest 

 width contained five times in the length which is ecjual to twice 

 ( 9 ) or slightly more than twice (cT) the length of the pronotum, 

 the outline of the femora tapering slightly but regularly from 

 the proximal third to the moderately inflated genicular region, 

 carinte distinct but not high, smooth, pagina? with the pattern distinct, 

 chevrons moderately regular; caudal tibia; about equal to the femora 

 in length, lateral margins with eight to ten spines, internal margins 

 with eleven to twelve spines. 



General colors chromium green, l)ay and saffron yellow. Head with 

 a broad irregular median longitudinal bar of dull yellow, margined 

 laterad by bay; postocular regions green, gena; ventrad of the eyes 

 obliquely yellow, the ventral margin touched with bay: face of the 

 female ba\', of the male fainth^ washed with the same and with a trace 

 of a transverse yellowish bar; eyes cinnamon; antennaj wine purple. 

 Pronotum bay with broad lateral yellow bars on the disk, these bars 

 converging on the middle of the prozona and regularly di-v-erging 

 cephalad and caudad, the ventral margin of the lateral lobes also with 

 a bar of yellow. Pleura greenish, the two pronotal bars on each side 

 continued on them, the dorsal to the insertion of the caudal femur, the 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ventral to the insertion of the median femur. Abdomen yellowish. 

 Tegmina greenish, the anal area yellow, this color as is also that of the 

 pronotal and pleural bars brighter in the male than in the female. Wings 

 washed with orange red proximad. Limbs greenish brown, the carinse 

 and paginse marked but not conspicuously with purplish, genicular 

 arches of the caudal femora bay; caudal tibiae pale vinaceous, in the 

 female the internal face and the internal faces of the internal spines 

 marked with purplish black, in the male the internal faces of the spines 

 alone are marked, tips of all the spines of the same color. 



Measure7nents. 



Length of body, 36.5 mm. 54 mm. 



Length of pronotum 7.5 " n.2 " 



Length of tegmen 30.5 " 38.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.5 " 22.8 " 



A paratypic series of tliree males and four females, taken on dates 

 in December, 1904, January, February and March, 1905, have also been 

 examined. One of the females possesses slightly longer tegmina and 

 wings than the others, and in several of the females the frontal costa 

 is slightly constricted ventrad of the sulcus, but otherwise]no important 

 structural variation is noticed. In color the variation noticed is 

 chiefly in the depth of the bay color and the brilliancy of the yellow, 

 the blackish on the internal face of the caudal tibice]^also varying 

 slightly in extent and intensity, being weak in some females and 

 distinctly marked in two of the males. 



ALEUAS stai. 



1878. Aleuas Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, V, No. 

 4, pp. 25, 69. 



Included A. vitticollis, gracilis and lineatus Stal, of which the first 

 may be considered the type. 



Aleuas brachypterus Brunei. 



1906. Aleuas brachypterus Bruiier, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 667. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



3 ? . March, 1905. 



Aleuas gracilis St^l. 



1878. A[leuas] gracilis Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handlingar, 

 V, No. 4, p. 70. [Brazil.] 



10 c?, 4 ? . February and March, 1905. 



The individuals I have considered as representing the females of this 

 species are short -winged as in A. brachypterus, but smaller than that 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELI'HIA. 185 



species, with the fastigium more acute aiul the margins cariiiate, being 

 in this respect a niodilicd form of the structure of this portion in the 

 male. The measurements of an average female are as follows: length 

 of body, 45 mm.; length of pronotum. 10; length of tegmen, 10; length 

 of cauilal femur, IS. 



PARALEUAS (.ikHo-Tos. 



1S9S. Paraleuas Giglio-Tos, Bollott, Mus. Zool. Anat. Conip. Torino, XIII, 

 No. 311, pp. 47, 57. 



Type. — P. bohlsii Giglio-Tos, 



Paraleuas fosteri Brunei-. 



1906. Paraleuas foslcri Brunor, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. 669. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



1 6^,8 9 . February and :\Iarch, 1905. 



These specimens vary considerably in color, the males being hght 

 yellow in the paler areas, the majority of the females dull gamboge 

 on the same sections, while one has a A'cry slight rather general pinkish- 

 red suffusion. 



JODACRIS Giglio-Tos. 



1S97. Jodacris Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XII. 

 Xo. 302, p. 32. 



T3'pe. — Anniceris ferrugineus Giglio-Tos. 



Jodacris ferruginea (Giglio-Tos). 



1S94. A[nnic€ris] ferrugineus Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, Xo. 1S4, p. 30. [Province of San Pedro, Villa Rica, Asuncion, 

 Paraguay.] 



3 9 . March, 1905. 



One of these specimens is slightly smaller than the others. 



OMALOTETTIX Bruner. 

 1906. Omalotettix Bruner, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, pp. 612, 672. 

 Type. — Jodacris{?) nchulosa Bruner. 



Omalotettix nebulosa (Bruner). 



1900. Jo(lncrls(?) nchulosa Bruner, Ace. Gen. Spec. Locusts Argentina, 

 p. 67. [Asuncion, Paraguay; Province of Tucuman, Argentina.] 



1 d^, 3 9 . February and March, 1905. 



These specimens appear to be fully typical. One female individual 

 is rather fainth' suffused with ros}". 

 Omalotettix signatipes Bruner. 



1906. Omalotettix signatipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. 673. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



5 c^, 9 ? . February and :\[arch, 1905. 



This series is readily separable from ncbidosa by the blunter fasti- 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



gium/as mentioned by Brunei', and also by the more robust caudal 

 femora. It is apparent from this material that the lower external 

 face of the caudal femora is not always black, specimens indistinguish- 

 able otherwise varying in this respect. In the cases where this is not 

 black, it is of the color of the external femoral face. The maculation 

 on the external face also varies in size and intensity. 



VILERNA stai. 

 1873. Vilerna Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, pp. 3S, 71. 

 Type. — V. ceneo-oculata (De Geer). 



Vilerna rugulosa St&l. 



1878. Vilerna rugulosa Stal, Bihang till K. Svenska Veten.-Akad. Hand- 

 lingar, V, No. 4, p. 61. [Peru; Rio Janeiro.] 



1 9 . April, 1902. 



XIPHIOLA Bolivar. 

 1896. Xiphiola Bolivar, Actas Soc. Espau. Hist. Xat., XXV, p. 17. 

 Type. — A', cyanoptera Bolivar. 

 Xiphiola borellii Giglio-Tos. 



1900. X[iphiola] Borellii Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mas. Zool. Anat. Comp., XV, Xo. 

 377, p. 5. [Urucum, Brazil.] 



1 ? . May, 1902. 



This individual is slightly smaller than the specimen measured by the 



describer. 



SCHISTOCERCA Sti\l. 

 Schistocerca infumata Scudder, 



1899. Schistocei-ca infumata Scudder, Proo. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., 

 XXXIV, p. 457. [Monte^^deo, Uruguay; Brazil.] 



8 d", 10 9 . February and March, 1905. 



Wlien compared with the closely allied *S. flavofasciata (De Geer), the 

 form of the male cerci is found to be a good diagnostic character, these 

 being|broadly truncate in flavofasciata and distinctly, but not greatly, 

 tapering in infuinata. 



ATRACHELACRIS Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Atrachelacris Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, pp. 19, 20. 



Type. — A. unicolor Giglio-Tos. 



Atrachelacris unicolor Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Atrachelacris unicolor Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 21. [Resistencia nel Cliaco, Argentina; Asuncion, 

 Paraguay.] 



6 (5^, 10 9 . January to March, 1905. 



This is unquestionably true A. imicolor, as comparison with the 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 187 



original measurements demonstrates, the individuals recorded by 

 Bruner as A. unicolor from Cordoba and Carcarana, Argentina being 

 distinct. 



DICHROPLUS Stai. 

 1S73, Dichroplus Stal, Kecensio Urthopterorum, I, p. 78. 

 Included D. arrogans patruelis, cliens and lemniscatus (Stal), of which 

 the first can be considered the type. 



Dichroplus robustus Bruner. 



190(3. Dichroplus robustus Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX. p. G79. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



2 cJ^, 2 9 . February and March, 1905. 



As the male of this species is at present undescribed, a few notes on 

 the appendages of this sex may be of service. 



Furcula present as very minute short fingers lying close together. 

 Supra-anal plate broad with the apex obtuse-angulate and the median 

 ridges approaching to about the middle of the plate, from which caudad 

 they are subparallel. Cerci slender, long, distinctly tapering in the 

 proximal half from a rather broad base to a slender rounded shaft, 

 beyond which they have a slight ventral falcation, being also slightly 

 compressed distad and with the apex acute. Subgenital plate rather 

 short, conical, horizontal, margins straight and with a small apical 

 indentation. 



The females are slightly smaller than the measurements given by 

 Bruner, but appear without doubt to be this species. All the sj^ecimens 

 are darker than those described by Bruner. 



Dichroplus paraguayensis Bruner. 



190G. Dichroplus pnraguayensis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. ^lus., XXX, p. 

 680. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



7 c?, 2 9 . February and March, 1905. 



These specimens appear to fully represent this species, which, 

 without other material, would be hard in the female sex to distinguish 

 from robustus. One female specimen measures, length of body, 31.5 

 rnm. ; length of pronotum, 7.5; length of tegmen, 24; length of caudal 

 femur, 17.5. 



Dichroplus exilis Giglio-Tos. 



1894. D[ichroplus] exilis Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., IX, No. 

 184, pp. 23. [Resistencia nel Chaoo, Argentina.] 



1 cJ', 3 Q . February and March, 1905. 



Superficially this species bears some resemblance to D. hergii, but is, 

 of course, a very different insect, the apparent similarity being chiefly 

 in color pattern. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Dichroplus punctulatus (Thunberg). 



1S24. Gr[yllut;] puncfulatiis Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., 

 IX, p. 408. [Brazil.] 



9 6^, 14 9 . September, 1901; January to March, 1905. 

 This series presents considerable variation in the intensity'and shade 

 of the pronotal markings, as well as in the depth of coloration of the 

 dorsal face of the caudal femora. 

 Dichroplus dubius Bruncr. 



1906. Dichroplus dubius Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 682. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



1 (^,7 9. February and March, 1905. 



These specimens are c^uite uniform in size, and in coloration vary 

 but slightly in the intensity of the broken dorsal bars on the caudal 

 femora. The very slender cerci of this species are quite peculiar. 



Dichroplus bergii (St&l). 



1878. P[ezotettix] Bergii Stal, Biliang till K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Hand- 

 lingar, V, No. 9, p. 6. [Buenos Ayres, Parana, Corrientes.] 



15 6^, 11 2. December, 1904; February and March, 1905; May, 

 1902. 



This series varies considerably in the suffusion of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum, and in the depth of color of the tegmina and dorsal face of 

 the caudal femora as well as of the caudal tibiae. 



Dichroplus cinctipes Bruner. 



1906. Dichroplus cinctipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 683. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



6 c?, 12 9 . February and March, 1905. 



This series shows that considerable variation exists in the general 

 size of the females and in the length of the tegmina and wings in the 

 same sex. 



LEIOTETTIX Bruner. 

 1906. Leiotettix Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, pp. 643, 684. 

 Type. — L. viridis Bruner. 



Leiotettix viridis Bruner. 



1906. Leiotettix viridis Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 685. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



12 c? , 1 1 9 . January to March, 1905. 



This series is quite uniform in size and coloration. 



Leiotettix punctipes Bruner. 



1906. Leiotettix punctipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX,rp. 686. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



12 9 . February and March, 1905. 




1907.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1S9 



This species varies somewhat in size, specimens distinctly larger and 

 smaller than the original measurements being in the series. The 

 dorsal section of the external pagina is strongly purplish in the majority 

 of specimens. 



Leiotettix sanguineus Hrunor. 



1901). Leiolettix sanguineus Bruner, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. GS7. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



3 6^, 1 9 . January and March, 1905. 



The pale portions of the gena) and pronotum in one specimen are 

 more greenish than flavous. 



Leiotettix flavipes Bruner. 



19U(3. Leiotettix flavipes Bruner, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. 687. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



5 d", 8 ? . February and :\larch, 1905. 



This beautiful species appears to be Cjuite uniform in coloration. 

 ^Leiotettix hastatus n. sp. 



Type: d^ ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 3, 1905. (W. T. Foster.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Closely allied to L. flavipes Bruner, but differing in the straight cerci, 

 reddish caudal tibiiP, the non-emarginate cephalic margin of the pro- 

 notum and the more pronounced angle of the caudal margin of the 

 same. 



Size medium; form as usual in the genus. Head with the occiput 

 hardly elevated above the level of the pronotal disk; vertex gently 

 declivent to the fastigium, interspace between the eyes about two- 

 thirds the width of one of the eyes; fastigium slightly broader than long, 

 slightly depressed within the margins but not excavate; frontal costa 

 rounded dorsad, rather broad, subec^ual in width, slightly constricted 

 ventrad of the ocellus, sulcate for a considerable distance ventrad of 

 the ocellus and around the dorsum of the same; eyes hardly prominent 

 when viewed dorsad, ovate in outline, slightly 

 flattened cephalad, in length slightly less than 

 half that of the infraocular sulcus; antennae 

 somewhat shorter than the caudal femora, slightly 

 flattened at the apex. Pronotum very slightly 

 depressed mesad, disk slightly narrowed mesad, 

 greatest width of the disk (caudal) contained Fig. 13. — Leiotettix 

 about once and a half in the length; cephalic ha.<:tatus n.sp. Lat- 

 ,. , , ,1-1 '^'"^1 view oi apex 



margm slightly arcuate, caudal margm obtuse- of male abdomen. 



angulate with the immediate angle slightly CX (3.) 

 flattened; median carina distinct but slight on 

 the prozona, more apparent but low on the metazona, principal sulcus 

 dividing the carinse decidedly caudad of the middle: lateral angles 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



rounded on the prozona, developing slight but apparent shoulders on the 

 metazona; lateral lobes distinctly longer than deep, regularly narrow- 

 ing ventrad, the ventral margin obtuse-angulate. Tegmina slightly 

 exceeding the apex of the abdomen. Prosternal spine pyramidical, 

 moderately acute, directed slightly caudad; interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes longitudinal, the length distinctly but not greatly 

 exceeding the width; metasternal lobes attingent. Furcula developed 

 as a pair of very short, slight separated fingers; supra-anal plate with 

 the margins converging, a median lanceolate depression in the proximal 

 half very marked; cerci rather short, tapering in the proximal half, the 

 median width no more than half the proximal, distal half slightly 

 compressed, the ventral margin rather straight, the dorsal with a 

 slight expanded shoulder distacl of the middle then continuing straight 

 to the acute apex, external face of the distal half slightly excavate; 

 subgenital plate considerably produced, scoop-like, the margin semi- 

 elliptical when viewed dorsad, when viewed laterad straight in the 

 proximal portion but slightly emarginate and depressed distad, the 

 apex on a plane with the base. Cephalic and median limbs with the 

 femora moderately inflated. Caudal femora roliust, the length about 

 two and one-half times that of the pronotum and the breadth con- 

 tained about three and a half times in the length, pagince distinctly 

 but not very deeply sculptured; caudal til^ia? ^^"ith nine spines on each 

 margin. 



General colors russet, olive-green and gamboge yellow; the russet 

 coloring the tegmina, strongly proximad, weakly toward the apex; the 

 olive-green present in rather broad lateral bars extending from caudad 

 of the eyes across the pronotum and weakl}' coloring the dorsal exposed 

 portion of the pleura, the dorsal face and the dorsal half of the lateral 

 face of the caudal femora as well as the median and cephalic limbs of 

 the same color; the gamboge yellow colors the gense, the ventral por- 

 tion of the lateral lobes of the pronotimi, the greater portion of the 

 pleura and the ventral half of the lateral face of the caudal femora. 

 Face very dull olive-green, the dorsum of the head much the same 

 color, separated from the post ocular bars by a faint bar of yellow; 

 eyes walnut brown ; antenme cinnamon, darker distad. Pronotum with 

 the dorsum burnt umber with the faintest possible traces of longitudinal 

 lateral bars. Abdomen clay-color. Caudal femora with the genicular 

 arches clove brown, internal face and ventral face and sulcus except 

 for a narrow yellow pregenicular area poppy red ; caudal tibiie washed 

 with dilute orange-vermilion, the spines buffy tipped with black. 




1*W7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 24.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 5 " 



Length of tegmen 18.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 13 " 



The type is unique. 



SCOTUSSA Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Scotussa Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, 

 No. 184, pp. 20, 24. 



Type. — S. impudica Giglio-Tos. 



Scotussa rubripes Bruner. 



190(i. Scotufiysa rubripes Bruuer, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 688. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



3 c^, 3 9 . January to March, 1905. 



As stated by Bruner the superficial resemblance of this species to 

 Leiotettix flaripes is very great. The male being hitherto unknown 

 some remarks on the appendages may be pertinent. 



Furcula very short, minute, placed close together. Supra-anal 

 plate evenly depressed distad. Cerci slender, elongate, tapering in the 

 proximal half, distad of this slightly compressed, slightly falcate, acute 

 and with a distinct sigmoid curve toward the median Une. Subgenital 

 plate slightly produced, broad,, rather shallow, the apex rectangulate. 



The measurements of a male specimen are as follows : 



Length of body, 21 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.5 " 



Length of tegmen, 17 '^ 



Length of caudal femur, 10.5 " 



PARASCOPAS BruiKT. 



1894. Scopas Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Auat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 



184, pp. 20, 28. (Not of Bonaparte.) 

 190G. Parascopas Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 689. 



Type. — Scopas ohesus Giglio-Tos. 



Parascopas obesus (Giglio-Tos). 



1894. S[copas] obesus Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, p. 29, pi. figs. 5 and 6. [Pro^•ince of San Pedro, Asuncion, 

 Paraguay.] 



10 cJ^, 11 ? . February, 1903 and 1905. 



CHLORUS Giglio-Tos. 



1898. Chlonis Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp., XIII, No. 311, p. 

 50, footnote. 



Type. — Paradichroplus borellii Giglio-Tos. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Chlorus vittatus Bruter. 



1906. Chlorus vittatus Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus., XXX, p. 690. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



I 9 . February, 1905. 



This specimen fully answers the original description, except that the 

 median carina of the pronotum is hardly perceptible. 



OSMILIA st&i. 

 1873. OsmiUa Stal, Recensio Orthopterorum, I, p. 68. 



Included Acrydium flavolineatum De Geer, Gryllus violaceum, rufipcs 

 and ohliquum Thunberg, of which flavolineatmn may be considered the 

 type. 



Osmilia violacea (Thunberg). 



1824. Gr[yllus] violaceus Thunberg, Mem. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersb., IX, 

 p. 413. '[Brazil.] 



II c?, 9 ? . January to March, 1905. 



This series presents some variation in the depth of the ground color 

 and also in the presence or absence of weak tegminal maculations. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



May 7. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The Chair announced the death of William K. Shryock, a member, 

 April 28, 1907. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication : 



"Description of New Species of Spioniform Annelids," by J. Percy 

 Moore (April 26). 



"A Contribution to the Morphology of Pyrula," by Burnett Smith 

 (April 29). 



"The Hymenopterous Family Evaniidse," by J. Chester Bradley 

 (April 3). 



Origin of the Tropical Forms of the Land Molluscan Fauna of Southern 

 Florida. — Dr. H. A. Pilsbry remarked that former writers on this 

 fauna have treated the tropical area in Florida as an outlier of the 

 Antillean zoological province. The speaker recognized two groups of 

 genera, of diverse origin: (1) Antillean genera, consisting chiefly of 

 species also West Indian, such as Chondropoma, Liguus, Cepolis, 

 Varicella, etc., concentrated southward, and unknown in the Floridian 

 PUocene, and (2) Mexican genera, chiefly composed of species confined 

 to Florida, such as Euglandina, Praticolella, Drymoeus of the dormani 

 type, and apparently Polygyra, some of which are represented in the 

 Floridian (Caloosahatchie) Pliocene. The first group he regarded as 

 recent additions to the fauna, which had reached Florida from Cuba 

 and the Bahamas by the agency of hurricanes, drifting trees and the 

 like. The second group probably emigrated from the Southwest during 

 the mild INIiocene climate, and entered peninsular Florida on the eleva- 

 tion marking the close of the Miocene. The Oligocene fauna of the 

 Tampa Silex beds, the speaker thought, had left no descendants. Its 

 snails were of wholly Antillean type, the lea ling Antillean genera of 

 Helices, Cepolis and Plcurodontc both being represented. 



Dr. Pilsbry alluded also to Prof. Alexander Agassiz's conclusion, that 

 the Florida Keys are in process of diminution by solution of the lime- 

 stone composing them. The former unity of keys now separated 

 accounts for the homoc'eneitv of their land-shell faunas. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Note on the Value of the Gastropod Apex as a Means of Classifieotion. 

 — Dr. Burnett Smith remarked that studies recently made among 

 Tertiary and recent Gastropods tend to show that the importance of 

 the "protoconch" as a means of generic discrimination has been 

 greatly exaggerated. An examination of the species of Pyrula with 

 rounded whorls (P. ficus, P. papyratia, P. mississippiensis, P. condita, 

 etc.) has shown that with slight exceptions the chief specific modifica- 

 tions have been introduced not into the later adult whorls, but into the early 

 whorls. On tracing the genus back in time it is seen that on the whole 

 the apices become smaller and the smooth whorls are more numerous. 

 Nevertheless we find that at the present day both the small (generalized) 

 and the large (specialized) apices are found. The Panamic form 

 (P. decussata) is furnished with the primitive type of apex, while the 

 Gulf and Caribbean representative (P. papyratia) has the large 

 specialized apex with but one smooth whorl. 



The Texas and Louisiana Lower Claiborne races of the species com- 

 monly known as Volutilithes petrosus constitute still another mono- 

 phyletic assemblage, though in this case a more restricted one. Here 

 it has been observed that again the chief modifications are exhibited 

 by the apical smooth stage, while the later ontogenetic stages remain 

 relatively unchanged. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D., spoke of the influence of chemicals 

 on the development of the bud. (No abstract.) 



May 2L 



Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following 

 titles had been presented for publication : 



"The Polycystid Gregarines of the United States" (third contribu- 

 tion), by Howard Crawley (May 13). 



"A New Species of Athleta and a Note on the Morphology of Athleta 

 petrosa," by Burnett Smith (May 15). 



"New and Little-known Whelks from Northern Japan and the Kuril 

 Islands," by H. A. Pilsbry (May 16). 



" The Distribution of the North American Gordiacea, with Descrip- 

 tion of a New Species," by Thomas H. Montgomery Jr. (May 21). 



P. Chalmers Mitchell, of London, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILAUELrillA. 195 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF SPIONIFORM ANNELIDS. 

 BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Tlie following descriptions of four species of Spionidae and one of 

 i\Iagelonidae are based upon material mostly included in the collection 

 of Polychoeta belonging to this Academy, and which, with one excep- 

 tion, was secm-ed by the writer in the region about Wood's Hole, 

 Massachusetts. 

 Prionospio heterobranchia f^p. nov. 



This very interesting and distinct species is based iipon a single 

 imperfect specimen lacking the posterior end , and having a length for 

 the first 65 segments of 12 mm., and a maximum width at somite Ylll 

 of less than 4 mm. Form very slender, widest and depressed in the 

 branchial region, thence tapering very gently into the very slender and 

 suljterete posterior region. 



Prostomium (Plate XV, fig. 1) elongated cuneiform, tapering behintl 

 to a slender point which overlaps somite II and reaches to its posterior 

 margin; lateral margins with slight concavities opposite the ej'es for 

 the accommodation of the bases of the tentacular cirri; anterior margin 

 entire and broadly rounded; a conspicuous median ridge begins just 

 anterior to the eyes and, becoming more prominent, reaches to the 

 posterior end of the prostomium, where it forms a slightly free and 

 elevated process. Eyes one pair, very large and conspicuous, elongated, 

 black, situated close together at the sides of the median ridge and 

 between the bases of the tentacular cirri. No cephalic appendages. 

 Peristomium closely imited to prostomium, relatively small, some- 

 what pushed forward below as an oral papilla in the form of a truncated 

 cone; at the sides and above embracing the prostomium laterally as 

 slender, curved, lateral cephalic lobes much shorter than the prosto- 

 mium and ending in roinided enlargements anterior to the attachment 

 of the tentacular cirri, which have unfortunately been lost. Proboscis 

 protruded in the form of a short inverted cone with a somewhat crenu- 

 lated border extending slightly beyond the prostomium. 



Somites II to \T wider and much depressed ; \TI to X of the same 

 width but becoming deeper; after X the segments become gradually 

 more slender and terete and taper gently caudad. Branchial segments 

 very short, the others about § as long as wide and feebly marked. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^I^Y, 



Parapoclia of branchiate segments II to V large and conspicuous 

 (figs. 2 and 3) ; both notopodia and neuropodia provided with large, 

 foliaceous, postsetal laminae, usually overlapping or at least touching 

 across the sinus; the former rising as a long dorsal process external to 

 but quite free from the gill; the latter nearly circular, and in the case of 

 the first one (II) apparently ^bearing a slender cirrus-like process on the 

 ventral border. Behind V the parapodia are much smaller and soon 

 become reduced to the form shown in fig. 4, in which the notopodial 

 and neuropodial postsetal lamellse have a similar form, but the former 

 is twice the size of the latter. Posteriorly they become still smaller. 



Branchiae 5 pairs, on somites II to VI inclusive. All large, exceeding 

 the diameter of the body even in contraction, erect, and arising from 

 the dorsum close to the notopodia. The first pair (fig. 2) have a central 

 stem containing a large vascular loop and ending in a slender, free 

 filament. The basal f of the stem is crowded, chiefly on the posterior 

 and medial surface, with numerous slender, finger-like processes, each 

 with a small vascular loop connected with the two limbs of the stem 

 loop; free surfaces ciliated. The last pair are similar, but the papillae 

 are longer toward the base and distributed on all sides of the proximal 

 f of the stem (fig. 5) . The 2d and 3d (fig. 3) are simply flattened and 

 ligulate, marked across the posterior face by numerous very fine 

 transverse ridges which correspond with delicate branches uniting the 

 two sides of the vascular loop. The 4th is intermediate, resembling 

 the last in form, but bearing a few filaments along its inner and posterior 

 margin. 



Anterior parapodia bear capillary setae exclusivelj^, arranged in 

 shaggy, fan-shaped, vertical tufts in both rami, and curving outward 

 and upward, the dorsal members of bundles on the branchial notopodia 

 being especially long, and those of the first two exceeding the width 

 of their respective somites. They are all simple, with very narrow 

 wings or none, and very acute. Behind the branchial region the 

 notopodials become gradually, and the neuropodials quickly, smaller 

 and fewer. At about XL 1 or 2 crochets appear in the notopodium 

 along with several very long, thread-like, flexible setae. Little further 

 change occurs within the length of the specimen. In the neuropo- 

 dium crochets appear at XV ; at XXV there are C or 7 crochets alter- 

 nating with as many very small, straight, delicate setae; at L there are 

 about 10 crochets and a few still smaller setae. Crochets (fig. 6) color- 

 less, slender, terminated by 1 large and 3 or 4 small teeth, all enclosed 

 in a spacious hood of two halves. 



Body walls generally colorless and translucent, allowing the red 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



blood in the anterior part and the olive-green intestine in the posterior 

 part to show through ; tentacular cirri with a red central vessel and gills 

 red throughout. 



The type and only specimen (Coll. A. N. S. P., No. 850) was dredged 

 from the soft ooze at the bottom of the deepest part of the Eel Pond 

 at Wood's Hole on August 4, 1902. Several subsequent searches have 

 failed to reveal any others. 



Prionos'pio tenuis Verrill, the only species definitely described from 

 our shores, has four minute eyes and four pairs of gills, of which the first 

 only is branched, the others being foliaceous. A larger specimen, 

 probably representing a distinct species, is recorded as having all of 

 the 4( ?) pairs of branchiae lanceolate and pectinate posteriorly, with 

 slender papillse. Webster and Benedict record an undetermined 

 species at Provincetown, Massachusetts. The four or five European 

 species are all easily distinguished by the characters of the prostomium, 

 gills and crochets. 



Numerous species of Polydora have been described from both sides of 

 the Atlantic. Eight species occur in the region about Wood's Hole, 

 the following two of which are new^ and rather closely related. 

 Polydora anoculata sp. nov. 



Form very slender and elongated, anterior half depressed and of 

 nearly uniform width; posterior half gently tapered, nearly terete. 

 Length up to 20 mm., breadth at VI 35 mm. Number of segments 

 about 98. 



Prostomium (Plate XV, figs. 7, 8 and 9) about 3 or 4 times as long as 

 broad, not prolonged caudally beyond somite II, but truncate or 

 broadly rounded ; anterior half abruptly bent downward, with a steep 

 front; sides straight or slightly concave in anterior half; anterior end 

 cleft medially, the halves diverging as a pah- of rather prominent, 

 short, rounded lobes, which may be drawn together or separated. 

 Eyes totally absent and no nuchal ridge nor nuchal cirrus. 



Peristomium (figs. 7, 8 and 9) bounding mouth by a small simple 

 posterior lip ; lateral cephalic lobes nearly meeting below, compressing 

 the ventral portion of prostomium between them and extending as 

 far forward as the base of anterior prostomial lobes. Tentacular 

 cirri arising from posterior dorsal region of peristomium, in contact 

 with sides of prostomium, rather stout, length three or four times width 

 of body, reaching to XIII or XV, constricted at base, then widened, 

 then tapered to blunt tip, channeled for entu-e length, and much 

 wrinkled transversely. 



Segments all well marked, uniannulate, those of the anterior ^ 

 14 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



depressed, the remainder terete or subterete, strongly convex below, 

 more or less flattened above ; the first 4 very short, about five times as 

 wide as long, nearly straight laterally; the next (VI) enlarged, nearly 

 twice as long as the preceding, strongly convex laterally, and widest 

 in front. The others gradually increase in length until the middle ones 

 are ^ to f as long as wide. Posteriorly they again become very short 

 and close to the pygidium minute. Pygidium (figs. 10 and 11) bearing 

 a small, scarcely expanded, somewhat funnelform caudal disk as wide 

 as the small posterior segments and less than one-half the greatest 

 width of the body, the margin even, with only a very faint ventral 

 emargination and a deep dorsal cleft which passes into the slight fecal 

 groove. Anus dorsal of the center, on a small papilla. 



Parapodia of II with rami widely separated, the notopodium (fig. 7) 

 immediately behind the base of the tentacular cirrus, and consisting 

 of a minute setigerous tubercle and a short papilliform cirrus or post- 

 setal lobe ; the neuropodium at the level of the notopodia of succeeding 

 somites, but otherwise of normal form. Succeeding parapodia are 

 strictly lateral, with w^ell separated rami; the notopodia at first with 

 rather large foliaceous, postsetal lamellae projecting dorsal, and after 

 the gills appear gradually diminishing (fig. 12) ; neuropodia with longer 

 lower postsetal lamellse which practically disappear after somite ^'II. 

 Branchise (fig. 12) appear on X on all specimens studied, the fii'st very 

 small, and continue to LIII at least. When best developed they are 

 short, thick, digitiform and extend over the dorsum, meeting or nearly 

 meeting in the middle line. They have the usual structure. 



Somites II-V and VII bear capillary setee only. Notopodials of II 

 5 or 6, very slender, delicate, and wingless ; the others bear 4-6 longer, 

 slender, slightly curved, and narrowly bilimbate dorsal setae, and 

 about as many shorter, coarser, often twice-bent, bilimbate ventral 

 setse. Neuropodia bear 12 or 14 setse in 2 rows; they are similar to the 

 notopodials, but, except on II, distinctly shorter and more strongly 

 curved. Behind VII the notopodal setse (figs. 13) are at first similar, but 

 after the gills appear their number is reduced and they gradually 

 become longer, more slender and straighter, those of posterior segments 

 exceeding the diameter of the body. No notopodial crochets. Crochets 

 appears in the neuropodia at VIII, which, like the next 3 or 4 segments, 

 contains 2 or 3 accompanied by 1, or rarely 2, very delicate setae at 

 the ventral end of the series; for the remainder of the length there are 

 3 or 4 crochets and no setse. Crochets (fig. 17) are delicate, colorless, 

 strongly bent near the end and provided with a stout tooth arising at a 

 wide angle (about 110 degrees), and above it an accessory tooth; both 




1907.] XATIRAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELriH A. 199 



enclosed in a delicate hood. On VI from 4 to 6 sessile s]:)ines are 

 arranged in a slightly oblique series, diminishing in size from above 

 downward. They (figs. 16 and 23) are pale yellow, rather slender, the 

 blunt tips rather strongly hooked, a prominent subterminal s]>ur on 

 one side, and a smaller one often on the other. Cluard setae (fig. 15) form 

 a row anterior to and alternating with the spines; when unworn they 

 are broadly bilimbate at the end with a delicate and elongated mucron. 

 Overlapping the anterior-most spine from the dorsal side are 2 or 3 

 much larger bilimbate setae (fig. 14), abruptly bent and either truncate 

 or mucronate at the tip. A ventral posterior tuft beneath the last 

 spine contains 4 or 5 much more delicate, nearl}- straight setae, closely 

 resembling the guard setae. 



Color of intestine usually pale yellow; body walls translucent, with- 

 out pigment; blood red, coloring the gills and other parts. 



Known from the region about Wood's Hole only. Uncommon. 

 Usually taken in association with colonies of Amarcecium jyellucidimi 

 in 7-17 fathoms in Mneyard Sound. Less often on piles among 

 Cynthia in Little Harbor and with Polydora colonia at Mneyard 

 Haven. 



Type Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., No. 2,338. 



A specimen taken on July 14th contained nearly mature eggs. 

 Polydora colonia sp. nov. 



Form elongated and very slender, resembling P. anoculata and of 

 about the same size or rather smaller. Number of somites unknown. 

 Length of head and 38 somites 6 mm., width at ^T 3 mm. Depressed 

 anteriorly, subterete farther back. 



Prostomium (Plate XV, fig. 18) elongated ; anterior half with straight 

 sides and of nearly uniform width, posterior half tapering into a nuchal 

 ridge which ends in a blunt point at the posterior margin of IV; anterior 

 margin broadly rounded, entire or slightly emarginate. Eyes usually 

 totally absent, but occasionally a small collection, or two, of pigment, 

 as in the specimen figured. 



Peristomium united with prostomium and somite II, forming a 

 simple posterior lip and a pair of prominent lateral cephalic lobes much 

 shorter than prostomium. Tentacular cirri attached to dorsum of 

 lateral cephalic lobes, not constricting prostomium. The basal half 

 has the usual structure and .proportions, but the distal half, probably 

 owing to maceration, is very slender and elongated, the total length 

 being about 7 times the width of \1 (fig. 18). The next four segments 

 are very short and much depressed; \1 is nearly[^as long as the three 

 preceding segments, strongly convex and furrowed laterally, widest 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



anteriorly. Succeeding segments rapidly increase in length until by 

 XIII they are f as long as wide, becoming also subterete, strongly 

 convex below and somewhat flattened above. Pj'gidium unknown. 



Except the first (on II) the parapodia are larger than usual. That 

 of II consists of a minute notopodial setigerous tubercle and papilli- 

 form postsetal lobe immediately behind the base of the tentacular 

 cirrus, and a small neuropodium situated at the level of the notopodia 

 of succeeding segments. Succeeding parapodia have prominent 

 foliaceous postsetal lamellae on both rami, but with the appearance of 

 crochets on VIII the neuropodium becomes much reduced. 



Gills begin on VIII or sometimes IX and continue to XXVIII, at 

 least, arising from the dorsum in contact with the base of the noto- 

 podium; form subcylindrical, rather short, apparently never long 

 enough to meet across the back, but their bases connected or nearly 

 connected by a low, ciliated, delicate, transverse fold. 



Setae of II few and very small, the notopodials only 3 or 4, very 

 slender and delicate, the neuropodials 6 or 8, short, slightly curved 

 and narrowly bilimbate. Succeeding notopodial setae rather con- 

 spicuous and numerous for the genus, anteriorly about 18-20, arranged 

 in 2 rows, the dorsalmost (fig. 19a) longest and rising prominently 

 over the back, narrowly bilimbate, very slender and little curved, the 

 ventralmost (fig. 196) much shorter, often doubly curved, with much 

 broader wings and acute awn-like tips. Toward the middle of the 

 body the number decreases and all the setae become more slender and 

 elongated. Anterior neuropodials also in two vertical rows of usually 

 6 or 7 each, all smaller and more strongly curved than the notopodials . 

 Crochets appear abruptly in the nem-opodium of VIII and never, so far 

 as observed, are accompanied by capillary setae. Anteriorly there are 3, 

 farther back 5 or rarely even 6. They are colorless, slender, with a 

 long acute beak and slender erect accessory tooth and are enclosed 

 distahy in a delicate hood, composed of a pair of well separated guards 

 (fig. 22). On somite VI there are almost invariably three (in only 

 one case out of many fovu-) pale yellow spines in a strictly vertical row 

 (figs. 20, 21). They are straight, slightly enlarged at the end where 

 they bear a principal and an accessory blunt, straight, conical tooth, 

 below which, on the posterior face, is a half-round sheath ending in a 

 free border on the side of the small tooth and forming a flange encircling 

 the base of the large tooth on the opposite side (figs. 20a and 21). On 

 the anterior side of these spines and alternating with them are a corre- 

 sponding number of broadly bilimbate setae, and a group of 3 or 4 

 similar and perfectly straight setae lies just dorsad of the spines. Ven- 




1007.] XATl RAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPHIA. 201 



tral ami slightly anterior to the lowermost is a second group of similar 

 but much smaller sctjc (fig. 20). 



Lives abundantly in colonies formed of soft mucoid tubes covered 

 with fine silt in the interstices of tunicates and sponges on wharf piles 

 in the harbor of Vineyard Haven, ^Massachusetts. Individual tubes are 

 less than 1 mm. in diameter and from 20-30 mm. long. Hundreds of 

 them are inextricably intertwined and cemented together with mucous , 

 forming masses 1 or 2 inches in diameter. Specimens taken at the end 

 of July contain large eggs which begin at somite XVI or XVII. 



The type is No. 2324 (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.). 



Unfortunately all of the numerous specimens were preserved in the 

 tubes and are more or less macerated and the posterior ends lost. The 

 seta>, however, and especially the spines and associated setae on VI, 

 are perfectly characteristic and serve to distinguish the species com- 

 pletely from any European or American species. 

 Magelona rosea sp. nov. 



Form very slender, body slightly depressed anteriorly, tapering very 

 gradually and subquadrate posteriorly. Length 40 mm., greatest 

 width 1 mm. Number of segments about 95. 



Prostomiimi and peristomium completely coalesced to form a head 

 (Plate XM, fig. 24) of a broad ovoid form, about ^ long erthan broad 

 l>ut capable of nnich greater elongation during life. A pair of dorsal 

 cephalic ridges, in contact metlialiy, extend for nearly the entire length 

 of the head, tapering to acute points anteriorly, and near the end 

 suddenly diverging, leaving a thin triangular area between. Anterior 

 and lateral portions of prostomium formed by a thin but rigid shovel- 

 like expansion marked on the dorsal surface by a number of delicate 

 raised sub-parallel lines. No prostomial appendages and no eyes. 



Peristomium dorsally consisting of the posterior portion of the 

 cephalic ridges and a pair of prominent lateral lobes, again subdivided 

 by a groove extending from the posterior margin; ventrally a simple 

 ring bounding the mouth behind. Tentacular cirri (fig. 24) arising 

 from the sides of the peristomium above the mouth and beneath the 

 margins of the prostomial plate. They are 8 mm. long, reaching 

 somite XX, delicate, and tapering, the lateral surface covered with very 

 fine and close transverse ridges, the medial with somewhat coarser but 

 still very small papillie which increase in length to the distal half where 

 they are as long as the diameter of the cirrus. Proboscis soft, bulbous, 

 protruded to half the length of the head and marked with numerous 

 fine longitudinal parallel ridges. 



Metastomium slender and of nearly equal diameter throughout, 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



only the anterior 8 segments and the tapered caudal end being distinctly 

 narrower; margins of body even and regular, the parapodia being 

 small and inconspicuous and arising from small, slightly depressed 

 rings; segments more or less distinctly divided into dorsal, ventral and 

 lateral fields by longitudinal furrows above and below the parapodia, 

 the latter forming interpodal wrinkled glandular areas, and the ventral 

 field divided by a median neural groove, which becomes obscure 

 posteriorly. Anterior region, consisting of peristomium and nine 

 podous segments, separated from the posterior region b}^ a deep 

 annular groove in which the ninth pair of parapodia lie (fig. 24) ; its 

 segments somewhat narrower than those of the posterior region and 

 without distinct intersegmental furrows, the distance between succes- 

 sive parapodia about f the width. Ventral median field occupied by a 

 series of slightly overlapping, segmental ventral plates, which become 

 smaller from in front caudad and are divided into halves by the neural 

 groove; lateral fields distinctly bounded and much furrowed trans- 

 versel3\ Distinct glandular bands or half-rings extend across the 

 dorsum between the parapodia, and several small and irregular trans- 

 verse furrows mark the dorsum and sides of each segment, dividing it 

 imperfectly into about 3 incomplete rings. Posterior region slightly 

 wider than the anterior and consisting of 84 or 85 segments; first 

 segment very short, but the others increasing in length until they are 

 about half as long as wide; ventral field distinctly wider than dorsal, 

 without ventral plates and divided by a deep ventral groove. Through- 

 out most of this region the parapodia lie in the deeper furrows, and a 

 shallower furrow is only obscurely indicated a short distance caudad 

 to each pair. Farther back it becomes clear that the segments are 

 biannulate and that the parapodia lie between the larger anterior and 

 smaller posterior annulus. 



Pygidium very small, oljlique, with the anus dorsal and covered by 

 a broad flat papilla; below and behind the anus a pair of small, slender 

 cirri, often replaced by a pair of minute papillae. 



Parapodia all biramous and more or less foliaceous, the first 9 pairs 

 with capillary setse only, the others with, crochets only in both rami. 

 The first 8 pairs consist of winglike, foliaceous, postsetal lamince, the 

 notopodial being somewhat broader and strongly curved ventrad to 

 meet the neuropodial, which is longer and projects more directly laterad ; 

 both somewhat contracted at the base to form a stem, which bears the 

 spreading, fan-shaped tufts of setse, the neuropodial being somewhat 

 the larger. The ninth parapodium (fig. 26) is similar but rather larger 

 and has a more extensive series of setse. In the posterior region the 




1!)07.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 203 



neuropodia and notopodia consist of \ertical ridges, each bearing a 

 series of lS-20 crochets and ending in minute notopodial and neuro- 

 ])odial cirri, while from their contiguous ends arise foliaceous expan- 

 sions borne on short stems (figs. 27-29). These expansions increase 

 somewhat in size to the middle of the body and bending toward each 

 other overlap broadly, but farther back they become much reduced in 

 size and the cirri disappear, simultaneously with an increase in the 

 number of crochets. 



Setse of both rami of the first nine pairs of parapodia (II-X) all 

 capillary, colorless, moderately slender, not greatly elongated, with 

 curved and tapered stems very delicately bordered by margins 

 which are broad on the concave and narrow on the convex side; 

 arranged in one regularly spaced series of from 15 to 30 and spreading 

 in a broad fan-shaped figure. Except that they are slightly longer, the 

 notopodials differ in no noticeable respect from the neuropodials, and 

 except that they are rather longer, more numerous and in part arranged 

 in double series, those of the tenth somite are exactly like the preceding 

 ones. Posterior to somite X both rami bear hooded crochets only, in 

 simple series facing each other; anteriorly each series contains 15 to 20, 

 posteriorly as many as 30. They (fig. 30) are little exposed, colorless, 

 slightly tapered distally, w^here they terminate in an abruptly hooked 

 blunt beak, surmounted by a smaller tooth and enclosed in a pair of 

 wide guards. 



Color translucent white, the intestine varying from buff to greenish- 

 brown, pharynx salmon pink, both showing through body walls; blood 

 madder pinlv, especially conspicuous in the tentacular cirri which con- 

 tain a large vascular loop. 



Specimens taken during the latter part of August contain nearly ripe 

 eggs in the middle segments of the body. 



Type No. 1677, Coll. Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Lives in sand at and below low w^ater, forming soft sand tubes under 

 stones, etc. As the worm crawls the pharynx is everted as a tumid fold 

 or bulb reaching half the length of the head, the ventral median part 

 being most prominent and marked by delicate longitudinal furrows. 



This species has been found only on a sandy beach, chiefl}^ below^ 

 low water, in a little shallow bay on the Buzzard's Bay side of Wood's 

 Hole. Prof. E. A. Andrews found it at the same place about ten years 

 before it came to my notice, and has described a specimen under the 

 name of M. papillicornis Miiller. The remarkable larvae have been 

 described by Fewkes (as Prionospio tenuis) from Newport, and by 

 Andrews from Beaufort, N. C, and Wood's Hole. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



'■^ Magelona papillicornis was originally described by Fritz Miiller in 

 1858 from specimens taken off the coast of Brazil. Since then it has 

 been repeatedly recorded from various parts of Europe, and because of 

 its remarkable characters has been much studied. As mentioned 

 above, Andrews was the fii'st to recognize Magelona on the coast of 

 North America. More recently Johnson has described a very distinct 

 species from Puget Sound. 



Hitherto the North Atlantic species has always been considered 

 identical with the Brazilian species, the very noteworthy difference 

 in the color of the blood of the two having been curiously overlooked . 

 Miiller describes his species as having pale violet blood, whereas all 

 specimens from the North Atlantic have madder pink blood. IMiiller's 

 description is very brief, and the other characters mentioned are 

 generic only. It is quite probable that when the Brazilian species is 

 better known other characters than the color of the blood will be found 

 to distinguish it from ours. Comparison of Wood's Hole specimens 

 with the excellent figures of parapodia given by Mcintosh and Mesnil 

 make it clear that the European species again is quite distinct from 

 ours and will require to be named. The most obvious difference is 

 that the setse of the tenth somite of the former are provided with a 

 bulbous terminal enlargement and small process, while those of M. 

 rosea are unmodified. 



Spionides japonicus sp. nov. 



Known from the anterior end only. Size large, probably not less 

 than 4 or 5 inches long, moderately slender. The type, consisting of 

 the head and 44 setigerous somites, is 25 mm. long and 2.5 mm. wide. 

 A fragment from the postbranchial region indicates a still larger 

 worm, having a width of nearly 4 mm. 



Prostomium (Plate XVI, fig. 31) flattened, subtriangular, nearly as 

 broad as long, the base anterior; anterior margin very broad, divided 

 into a low, wide, median lobe and a pair of narrow, bluntly rounded 

 lateral lobes directed toward the sides; lateral margins concave, meet- 

 ing in the blunt, rounded apex which is slightly elevated and bears a 

 slender, suberect nuchal cirrus, behind which a low, narrow ridge 

 continues along the dorsum. Eyes 1 pair, large, conspicuous, reddish- 

 brown, crescentic, situated at a slight widening behind the middle of 

 the prostomium; just anterior to each of them is a curved series of 

 small reddish-brown pigment specks. 



Peristomium forming lower lips and lateral cephalic lobes; the latter 

 small, rounded laterally and becoming very narrow posteriorly, where 

 they disappear l^eneath the prostomium just behind the level of the 




1907.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



eyes. Tentacular cirri missing, their faint scars of attachment on the 

 dorsum of the lateral lobes just anterior to the level of the eyes. Body 

 segments short and rather indistinctly defined ; much concealed by the 

 foliaceous parts of the parapodia; body rather strongly depressed, 

 gently convex above and below. 



Parapodia very conspicuous, so large that they completely envelop 

 the body and give somewhat the appearance of a series of thin disks 

 strong upon an excentric band. They are very broadly attached and 

 the two rami nearly continuous, with extended setigerous tubercles, 

 low presetal lobes, and very large and foliaceous postsetal lamellae. 

 The first (fig. 31) is relatively small and lies by the side of the prosto- 

 mium, the posterior part of which is crossed by the notopodial setae. 

 On the next few both postsetal lamellse increase rapidly in size, the 

 notopodial soon predominating over the neuropodial and extending 

 dorsalty and ventrally. In this region the neuropodial lamella (fig. 

 32) is formed much like the quadrant of a circular disk, and the noto- 

 podial lamella like a narrow palette, broadly rounded above and with 

 an auricular process below which is absent or little developed in the 

 most anterior parapodia. The notopodial lamellae meet or overlap 

 medially and touch the neuropodial lamella below. After somite XXX 

 the notopodium gradually becomes smaller and withdraws from the 

 dorsum. By XXX^TII it is strictly lateral and its postsetal lamellae 

 is no larger than that of the neuropodium, and leaves the dorsum 

 entirely exposed. Simultaneously with this change a delicate trans- 

 verse integumental fold appears on the dorsum, connecting the bases 

 of the notopodial lamelke of the two sides. At first quite insignificant, 

 these increase in height as the branchiae diminish and by XLII their 

 lateral parts are nearly half as high as the lamellae which they connect, 

 but the medial part is much lower. 



The first 3 pairs of ])arapodia are free, but all others are united con- 

 tinuously along each side by a thin lateral fold of integument, which is 

 attached to the sides of the body ventrally and whose dorsal border is 

 free between the parapodia but attached to each neuropodium for the 

 full height of its base and for a short distance above it. Thus is formed 

 a series of deep interpodal pockets widely open above. 



Branchiae arise from the dorsum just above the base of the notopodial 

 lamella from III to XLII inclusive, largely concealed behind the 

 medial ends of the lamellae. The first 2 or 3 are rather small, but they 

 soon increase in size and rise erect far above the notopodial lamellae. 

 The last 10 gradually diminish before they finally disappear. Typical 

 branchiae (fig. 32) are more or less flattened, ligulate, tapered and 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^lay, 



iinbranched. They contain large axial Ijlood vessels, from which pin- 

 nate loops branch on either side, corresponding with slight surface 

 plications. 



Capillary setse alone are found on both rami of parapodia of the 

 branchial region. They form broad spreading fan-shaped tufts and 

 are very numerous (40 or more notopodials and even more neuropodials) 

 and arranged in two vertical rows, a long seta of the posterior being 

 always paired with[|a shorter one of the anterior row ; much the longest 

 and most slender in dorsal part of notopodium, stouter in ventral part 

 of both rami. All setse are pale yellow with tapering, longitudinally 

 striated stems finely granulated on the surface, with more or less 

 prolonged and delicate tips and the more or less well developed wings 

 or margins directed toward the middle part of the foot on both rami 

 (fig. 33). Wings best developed on dorsal neuropodial and ventral 

 notopodial setse, the marginal setse of both bundles nearly lacking 

 them. Notopodial setse of II very small and delicate, those of the two 

 sides crossing over the prostomium. As the foliaceous structures and 

 gills become smaller the setse also become smaller and fewer. Crochets 

 appear in the ventral portion of the series on neuropodia of the post- 

 branchial region. There are 2 on XLI and 6 on XLIII. They (fig. 24) 

 are nearly colorless, rather slender, delicately striated longitudinally, 

 the tips gracefully hooked, with a stout beak surmounted by an 

 accessory process, both enclosed in a delicate hood conforming to their 

 contour. 



The type is No.l, 055, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. ; found with Aricia 

 fimhriata, taken at Albatross Station, No. 5,771, off Honshu, Japan, 

 on June 5, 1900; 61 fathoms; bottoms of green sandy mud. 



From the type of the genus, S. cirratus Webster and Benedict, 

 known only from Eastport, Maine, this species differs in having 

 numerous pairs of gills beginning on III, instead of 13 pairs only 

 beginning on IV, in having 1 pair of large eyes instead of 2 pairs of 

 small ones, and in the much larger size. 



Explanation of Plates XV, XVI. 



Plate XV. — Pi-ionnspio heterobrnnchia — figs. 1 to 6. 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal aspect of head and somite II, sliowing scars of attachment 



for tentacular cirri and gills. X 40. 

 Fig. 2. — Anterior aspect of parapodimii II wdth seta? and detached gill of 



other side. X 98. 

 Fig. 3. — Similar view of parapodium and gill of IV, without sette, X 98. 



Only a few of the transverse bloodvessels and external ridges are shown. 

 Fig. 4. — Anterior aspect of parapodium X. X 98. 

 Fig. .5. — Posterior aspect of detached gill of VI. X 98. 

 Fig. 6. — A crochet from neuropodium of L. X 600. 




19U7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



Pohjdora anoculala — figs. 7 to 17. 



Fig. 7. — Dorsal aspect of head and first G setigerous somites, one tentacular 

 cirrus in place. X 50. 



Fig. 8. — Dorsal aspect of head and 2 setigerous somites of another specimen. 

 X 5G. 



Fig. 9. — Ventral aspect of same. X 56. 



Fig. 10. — Dorsal aspect of pygidium and posterior somites. X 56. 



Fig. 11. — Ventral aspect of pvgidium. X 56. 



Fig. 12.— Parapodium XV. "^X 83. 



Fig. 13. — Dorsal (a) and \-entral (b) notopodial seta? from XV. X 440. 



Fig. 14. — Strongly bent seta from dorsal tuft of YI. X 440. 



Fig. 15.— Guard seta from VI. X 440. 



Fig. 16. — Three spines from VI, a and 6 from young, c from adult (type) 

 specimen. X 440. 



Fig. 17.' — Profile and face ^'ie\vs of neuropodial crochet from XV. X 600. 

 Pohjdora colonia — figs. IS to 23. 



Fig. 18. — Dorsal aspect of head and first 6 setigerous somites, one tentacular 



cirrus in place. X 56. 

 Fig. 19. — Dorsal (a) and ventral (6) notopodial seta? from XV. X 440. 

 Fig. 20. — Anterior and ventral ■view, showing all of the spines and setse of 



one side of "\'I under shght pressure, a the reverse or postero-dorsal 



aspect of the end of one of the spines. X 440. 

 Fig. 21. — Profile of one of the spines from somite VI of a larger specimen. 



X 440. 

 Fig. 22. — Profile and face views of a crocliet from XV. X 600. 

 Fig. 23. — "\^ariati()ns in the form of the spines on somite VI of Pohjdora 



anoculata. X 440. 



Pl.^te XVI. — Magelona rosea — figs. 24 to 30. 



Fig. 24. — Dorsal aspect of head and anterior region, showing the right 



tentacular cirrus in outUne and the left complete. X 9. 

 Fig. 25. — 'N'entral aspect of anterior end, showng bases of tentacular cirri, 



partly everted proboscis and ventral plates. X 24. 

 Figs. 26-29. — Outlines of parapodia X from the anterior side, all except 



fig. 27 ^^^th sette or crochets. X 56. 

 Fig. 30. — Two crochets from somite L, striations omitted from one. X 440. 



Spionides japonicus — figs. 31 to 34. 



Fig. 31. — Dorsal aspect of head, lacking tentacular cirri, and first two 



setigerous somites with setse. X 24. 

 Fig. 32. — Anterior aspect of parapodium XV, -vsith setie, the concealed 



portion of the gill sho'mi in dotted outline. X 24. 

 Fig. 33. — A pair of middle notopodial setse from XV. X 98; a, a small 



portion, X 440. 

 Fig. 34. — An entire crochet from tlie neuropodium of XL, X 2.50; and distal 



end of the same, X 440. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



a contribution to the morphology of pyrula. 



by burnett smith. 



Introduction. 



At the pi'csent day the genus Pyrula^ is made up of a small number of 

 species and these, though differing from one another somewhat, are 

 nevertheless all very much alike. The thin shell, cancellated sculpture, 

 low spire and long anterior siphon are common to them all. There is 

 no exaggeration in saying that nowhere among the marine gastropods 

 do we find a set of species which are with better reason arranged in one 

 generic group. They are indeed distinctly monophyletic. On examin- 

 ing the fossil Pj'rulas we find that the genus gives us a homogeneous 

 series of species ranging back in time well into the Eocene. It is true 

 that Pyrula is seldom a common fossil in any formation, and likewise 

 it does not furnish us with great series of closely related races which 

 follow^ one another in the rocks of any continuous geological section. 

 Nevertheless the very homogeneity of the scattered fossil species comes 

 to our aid. Their distinctly peculiar shell characters are always present, 

 just as in the widely distributed living forms. 



The. desire to deal with a group w^hose monophyletic nature is above 

 suspicion has led the author to exclude from the present paper many 

 Eocene and earlier species which are usually assigned to the genus. 

 Not a few of these may be indeed very close to Pyrula, but the present 

 paper has for its object the recording of the changes which a mono- 

 phyletic assemblage of species actually exhibits when w^e trace its 

 members through the different episodes of the time range and from one 

 geographical province to another. Still other early species appear to 

 be referable to Pyrula, but the preservation of the specimens is not good, 

 and this is an essential for a proper understanding of the shell sculpture 

 and apical characters. These forms also must be omitted. 



^ This paper is intended merely as a study of some of the morphologic changes 

 in a monophyletic group and makes no pretense of being a systematic re\'ision 

 oi the genus. Most of the specific tj^pes are either undesignated, lost or vmavail- 

 able, and the author has learned by experience that the average published figure 

 of a species of Pyrula is extremely unreliable. For these reasons the propriety 

 of using the generic name Pyrula is not here considered, and the classification in 

 Tryon's Manual of Conchology has been followed in discussing the recent forms. 

 In dealing with the fossil species references are given in each case. 




1907.] natural sciences of philadelphia, 209 



Morphology. 



Among the species of Pyrida (as here restricted) the similarity of 

 their grosser morphologic features is evident at a glance. The shell is 

 always light and thin, the whorls are as a rule very evenly rounded and 

 always increase rapidly in size, the spire is low and each whorl rises 

 high on its predecessor. This latter feature often makes the top of 

 the shell appear quite flat. Contrasted with the low spire, the branchial 

 siphon is much produced anteriorly and often slightly curved. The 

 shell is, in fact, roughly pear-shaped. ' . . 



It is, however, only when the finer features of the ornamentation are 

 studied that we realize the unusual constancy of the genus. The early 

 whorls are smooth, and this smooth stage may occupy from one (or 

 even less than one) to two and three-quarters or even three whorls.^ 



The smooth stage is followed rather sharply by the fine ribs and 

 spirals of the cancellated stage. Perhaps, on the whole, the spirals 

 appear a little earlier in life than do the ribs, but this is not a marked 

 feature. The cancellated stage persists in all the species to the end of 

 shell growth. At first there is but one set of spirals, but later secondary 

 sets appear between the primary spirals. Still finer sets of spirals are 

 introduced with the course of the ontogeny. Sometimes by the end of 

 the last whorl the secondary and later spirals may have acquired about 

 the same strength as the original primary spirals, though it is more 

 common for the primary spirals to be strongest, with the other sets 

 fainter and fainter according to the order in which they are introduced 

 into the ontogeny, the last sets introduced being faintest. On their 

 first appearance the ribs and the primary spirals are of about equal 

 strength, but in the later whorls the primary spirals are as a rule consid- 

 erably stronger than the ribs. Exceptionally the ribs on the later 

 whorls may be as strong as the primary spirals. 



To give any idea of the morphologic features which now serve, and 

 have in the past served, to differentiate the species we must employ 

 unusual methods. Ordinary descriptions fail to convey the meaning. 

 It has therefore been thought best to use tables for the purpose. In 

 these tables the two major ontogenetic stages are represented by the 

 letter A for the smooth stage and B for the cancellated stage. These 

 stages are marked off on the line of the ontogeny as they appear in the 

 different whorls. The nimibers stand for the whorls. 



' Sections of the apex iu P. papijratia Saj', show that it is filled with a secondary 

 limy deposit. 




210 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



P. papyratia. 



Kecent. Florida, etc. 



P. decnssata. 



Kecent. Western 

 Central America. 



P. dussumieri. 

 Recent. China. 



P. ficus. 

 Recent. 



East Indies. 



P. reticulata. 



Recent. East Indies. 



P. reticulata. 



Recent. Cargados 

 Islands. 

 P. tessellata. 



Recent. Rosemary 

 Islands, Australia. 



P. papyratia. 



Recent. Florida, etc. 



P. papyratia caloosa- 

 hatchiensis. 

 Pliocene. Florida. 

 P. papyratia. 



Waccamaw Pliocene. 

 South Carolina. 



P. pilsbryi duplinensis. 

 Miocene. North Caro- 

 lina. 

 P. pilsbryi. 



Oligocene (or Mio- 

 cene). Jamaica. 



P. mississippiensis. 

 Oligocene. V i c k s - 

 burg. Miss. 



P. filia. 



Eocene. J a c k s[o n, 

 Miss. 



Table I. 



[May, 



6 



Table II. 



P. condita. 

 Miocene, 

 France. 



Dax, 



P. pilsbryi. 



Oligocene (or Mio- 

 cene). Jamaica. 



P. carbaseaC!). 



Oligocene (or Mio- 

 cene). S. Domingo. 



P. mississippiensis. 

 Oligocene. Vicksburg, 



Miss. 



Table III. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Tabic I gives a representation of the ontogenetic features of the 

 recent species. Pyrula decussata Wood and Pyrula ficus Linn, are the 

 most clear-cut and distinctive species as regards the ornamentation 

 in the cancellated stage. Pyrula decussata is distinguished by its 

 strong primary spirals, while P. ficus has flat, weak spirals and very 

 faint ribs. Pyrula dussumicri Valenc. is^markcd by its long slender 

 form and the relatively high spire. In their apical features Pyrula 

 decussata, P. ficus and P. dussumieri are all very much alike. The 

 smooth stage occupies about 1.6-2 whorls and these early whorls are 

 small. 



Among the forms commonly grouped as Pyrula reticulata Lam. there 

 is much variation. How much of this is individual and how much 

 racial or specific it is impossible to say with the present data. They 

 all have relatively strong ribbing, and this together with spirals of about 

 the same strength gives them a much more conspicuously cancellated 

 appearance than is seen in any other recent species. 1\\ this Pyrula 

 reticulata assemblage the smooth stage occupies from 1.3 to 1.75 

 whorls and the first whorl varies not a little in size. These forms 

 strongly recall Pyrula condita Brongniart^ of the European Miocene 

 in the sculpture of the cancellated stage. It is probable that more 

 accurate collections will necessitate the division of P. reticulata into 

 separate geographical races or species. 



Pyrula tessellata Kobelt is a small type which differs from all others 

 in the peculiar character of its apex. The cancellated stage has been 

 thrown so far back in the ontogeny that little more than the globular 

 beginning of the fii'st whorl is smooth. This smooth portion is large 

 and swollen. In fact P. tessellata is, in its apical characters, the most 

 abnormal of any of the Pyrulas. 



On comparing Pyrula papijratia Say with the other species we find 

 that it is essentially similar to them as regards its cancellated stage. 

 When, however, the apex is examined it is seen to be sharply distinguish- 

 able from all other recent forms. The smooth stage is restricted to 

 about one whorl and this whorl is large and swollen. In this respect 

 P. papyratia is only surpassed by P. tessellata.- 



Table I demonstrates clearly that we may have living at one time 

 on the earth's surface a number of very closely related forms which 

 show markedly different degrees of acceleration and much variation 

 in the apex. 



Table II illustrates the changes shown by some of the American 



' See Cossmann, Essais de Pal6oconchologie Comparee, pt. V, pi. VI, fig. 7. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



species when they are traced from the Jackson Eocene clown to the 

 present time. To obtain a good idea of this series it is perhaps best to 

 consider first the more recent forms. As stated above, the Uving 

 PyruJa papyratia is chiefly notable for its large and swollen apex, the 

 smooth stage being confined to one whorl. The cancellated stage is in 

 no way unusual. 



To find an ancestor for the Pyrula papyratia of Florida seas we natur- 

 ally look in the Pliocene of the Gulf and other Southern States. A 

 form w^hich has been referred to P. papyratia'^ is furnished by the 

 Floridian Pliocene, and another shell from the Pliocene Waccamaw beds 

 of South Carolina has been likewise regarded as specifically identical 

 with it. A critical study of the Florida Pliocene form demonstrates 

 that it is extremely close to the recent species. In fact its cancellated 

 stage is similar in every respect. The apex is likewise almost the same, 

 but differs in having the cancellated stage begin a little later in the 

 ontogeny. The first whorl is also perhaps a trifle smaller in the fossil 

 form. Altogether this Florida Pliocene type is specifically identical 

 with the recent P. papyratia. Nevertheless the author believes that 

 it may with propriety be designated as the subspecies Pyrula papyratia 

 caloosahatchiensis. The Waccamaw Pliocene forms have an apex 

 similar to that of P. papyratia caloosahatchiensis. The individuals 

 examined are, however, all immatm'e, and it is therefore impossible to 

 note the sculpture of the later cancellated stage. It is probable that 

 a better series of specimens will establish the identity of this race with 

 the one from the Florida Pliocene. 



In the Miocene beds of the United States Pyrula appears to be a 

 rather uncommon fossil. From the Calvert Miocene of Maryland 

 Martin has described Pyrula harrisi.^ He says that good examples 

 are rare. I have had no opportunity to examine specimens of this 

 species, but it appears from the figure to be well removed from the 

 P. papyratia stock. In the very full collection of the Wagner Free 

 Institute of Science (Philadelphia) is a specimen collected in Duplin 

 County, North Carolina, by Mr. Charles W. Johnson. It has been referred 

 to P. papyratia. On a close examination of this form, however, it is 

 evident that we must assign to it a separate specific name. It is also 

 plainly distinct from the Maryland P. harrisi. It is by its apical char- 

 acters that this North Carolina species is distinguished from the Plio- 

 cene and recent P. papyratia. The smooth stage occupies about 1.5 



^ See Dall, Trans. Wag. Inst., Ill, p. 1G3. 



* Md. Geol. Stirv. Miocene, p. 226, pi. LV, fig. 3. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



213 



whorls and the first whorl is small, and not large and swollen as in P. 

 papyrotia. In these respects it is more closely allied to most other 

 Miocene forms and to some of the recent species of the Indo-Pacific 

 region. It is especially near to the form from the Oligocene (or 

 Miocene) beds of Santo Domingo which Gabb" refers to P. papyratia. I 

 have examined Gabb's specimens and find them to be identical with 

 the better preserved forms from the Oligocene (or Miocene) beds of 

 Bowden, Jamaica. In their apical characters they are all clearly dis- 

 tinct from P. poprjratia. I have selected the Bowden race as typical 

 of this new species; the t}q:)e specimen for the following description 

 being one of the lot numbered 11,144 in the collection]of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelpliia. 

 Pyrula pilsbryi n. s. 



Locality. — Bowden, Jamaica, W. I. 



Horizon. — Bowden beds, Oligocene (or Miocene). 



Whorl 1. — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 2. — Smooth and rounded for about one-half or three-quarters 

 of a whorl, and then the cancellated stage with its fine ribs and spirals 

 sets in. 



Whorl 3. — Cancellated stage. Fine ribs and spirals. 



Wniorls 4, 5. — Cancellated stage, with secondary sets of spirals 



^:^Sx, 



Fi^. 1. — Pyrula pilsbryi n.s. Bowdoii Fig. 2. — Pyrula pilsbryi duplinensis. 

 beds. Bowden, Jamaica. Lengtli Miocene. Duplin County, North 



= 42 mm. Carolina. 



' "Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo," Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. 

 1.5, p. 223, 18S1. 

 15 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



introduced between the primary spirals. Other still finer spirals are 

 introduced with the progress of the ontogeny. The primary spirals 

 are the strongest, while those sets of spirals introduced latest are 

 weakest. 



Remarks. — P. pilshryi is much like the Duplin form in its apical 

 features, but differs from it in the relatively weaker primary spirals 

 which do not dominate the later intercalated spirals to any great 

 extent. For the North Carolina form the name Pyrula pilshryi dup- 

 linensis is here proposed. 



The Vicksburg species Pyrula mississippiensis Conrad,^ it will be 

 noticed, has the first three whorls occupied by the smooth stage. The 

 first whorl is also smaller than in P. pilshryi. 



In the Jackson Eocene a species, probably Pyrula filia Meyer,' has, 

 like the Vicksburg form, a small first whorl and the smooth stage takes 

 up at least 2.5 whorls. It is a little more accelerated than the later 

 Vicksburg species. This emphasizes the fact that a less accelerated 

 and specialized race does not always underlie the more specialized 

 race. 



Nevertheless we can say that on the whole Table II shows us a 

 gradual acceleration of the features of the cancellated stage as we 

 trace the different types from the Eocene to the present day. This 

 acceleration is accompanied by a gradual enlargement of the first 

 whorl until we reach the culmination of this feature in the recent 

 Pyrula papyratia. 



Another exception to this gradual development is furnished by the 

 form from the Santo Domingo Oligocene (or Miocene) which Gab!) 

 referred to Pyrula 'mississippie7isis. This reference^ is entirely incor- 

 rect, for Gabb's specimen has a very large swollen apex with not more 

 than one smooth whorl. It is fully as accelerated as P. papyratia in 

 this respect, but it cannot be ancestral to the recent species on account 



' See Ficus mississippiensis Con., J. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., Vol. 1, p. 

 117. 



* Bericht ilber Senckenbergische nafnrforschende Gesellschaft in Frankfurt a. M ., 

 1887, Ficula filia Meyer, p. 8, Taf. I, fig. 10. I make this reference -mth some 

 doubt. 



' See Gabb, in Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. 15, p. 223. Gabb considered 

 Guppy's Ficula carbasea as a synonym for Conrad's Ficus 7nississippie7isis. He 

 says: "I have compared Mr. Guppy's shell with Mr. Conrad's original specimens 

 from Vicksburg, Mississippi, and find them identical in form and sculpture. I 

 am by no means sure that this should not be considered the same as F, decussatus 

 {F. ventricosus) , the common west coast Mexican form." 



It can, of course, be neither P. mississippiensis nor P. decussata, and as it 

 resembles Guppy's figure I have referred it to P. carbasea. Guppy's type I have 

 not seen. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA, 215 



of the great strcngthoiiiiip; of its primary spirals. In this respect it 

 resembles the Panamic P. dccussata. The imspecialized apex of 

 P. dccussata is, however, sufficient to prechide a derivation from this 

 fossil Santo Domingan form. Altogether this latter appears to be 

 an early departure from the stock of the generalized Pyrulas of the 

 Oligocene and Miocene. It probably has no descendants in later beds. 

 I have referred it with some doubt to Pyrula carbasca Guppy.*° 



Table III shows that the apex was as variable in the Eocene, Oligo- 

 cene, and Miocene as at the present day. The great length of the 

 smooth stage and slight acceleration of the cancellated stage are note- 

 worlliy features of this group of species. It is only in P. carhasea(?) 

 that the smooth stage is short and restricted. 



Range and Distribution. 



The genus Pyrula as restricted in this paper ranges from the late 

 Eocene to the present day. Earlier in the Eocene we encounter an 

 abundance of forms which appear to be closely related to the species 

 here considered. Their inclusion in the present study would, it is 

 believed, throw some doubt on the nionoi)hylctic nature of the group. 

 Their consideration is therefore delayed, so that wc may be able to 

 observe the changes in a series which obviously can be referred to 

 only one generic stock. 



In the Jackson Eocene and in the later Vicksburg beds the species 

 are remarkable for the great length of the smooth stage and for the 

 small size of the earl}' whorls. The same cliaracteristics are also to be 

 observed in the European Miocene Pyrula condita. The three species 

 P. filia of the Jackson Eocene, P. niississippicnsis of the Mcksburg 

 beds, and P. condita of the ]\Iioccne of Europe all (>x]iil)it similar apical 

 features. They represent the most primiti\-o expression of the Pyrula 

 assemblage which the geological record furnishes. 



In the Oligocene (or Miocene) deposits of Bowden, Jamaica, we find 

 Pyrula pUsbryi, and in the Miocene of Xortli Carolina occurs P. pilsbryl 

 duplincnsis. Both are very much alike as to the characters of the 

 smooth stage. In them it is more restricted than in P. condita or in 

 the American Vicksburg and Jackson types. In other words, the 

 cancellated stage is thrown farther back into the ontogeny. In addi- 

 tion, the early whorls have now become larger in size. Altogether P. 

 pilsbryi is very similar in its early whorls to P. dccussata, P. dussumicri, 

 P. ficus, and some specimens of P. reticulata. These three latter species 



^^Ficula carbasea Q. J. Geol. Soc. Land., 1S6G, Vol. 22, p. 580. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



are living to-day in the Indo-Pacific region. In its apical features, 

 then, P. pilshryi has attained about the same evolutional grade as 

 several of the recent forms. 



Nevertheless there is in the Oligocene or Miocene at least one excep- 

 tion to the general prevalence of the primitive apex. This is furnished 

 by the Pyrida far6asm(?), which in addition to the feature already 

 mentioned has a specialized adult sculpture that marks it as an early 

 offshoot from the main stock, and it is probably also a terminal member 

 of such an offshoot. 



Passing over this aberrant form, we find that in the Pliocene rocks of 

 North America the smooth stage is still further restricted and the apex 

 3'et larger, for there is at least one subspecies of Pyrula jxipyratia. 

 It is more primitive than the recent P. papyratia, for the first whorl is 

 hardly as large and the cancellated stage is not quite so accelerated as 

 in the recent form. It is very close and must be regarded as ancestral 

 to P. papyratia of the modern Florida seas. 



In American rocks, then, we have an excellent series showing the 

 gradual acceleration of the sculpture and the increase in size of the 

 early whorls. With the exception of P. mississippiensis and P. 

 carbasea this American series represents a good morphological succes- 

 sion, and from P. pilshryi to the living P. papyratia we can reasonably 

 assume a phylogenetic succession as well. 



The solution of the ancestry for the present day species of the Indian 

 and Pacific Oceans can hardly be attempted with the meager data at 

 our command. Pyrula decussata, P. dussumieri, and P. ficus probably 

 owe their origin to some such generalized types as we have seen in the 

 American Eocene and the European jMiocene. Just how long their 

 separate specific stocks have been distinct it is impossible to say. The 

 forms described as P. reticulata probably represent a group of geo- 

 graphical races which have arrived at different stages of evolution. 

 Some of them are very like Pyrula condita of the Miocene, for the 

 ribs are strong and, equalling the primary spirals, impart a markedly 

 cancellated appearance to the shell. Pyrida tesscllata of Australian 

 seas represents an offshoot from the primitive stock. It has become 

 distinctive by its large swollen apex and the encroachment upward of 

 each whorl high on its predecessor; but its ribbing is relatively strong, 

 the sculpture of its cancellated stage being primitive. 



A point of great interest is the succession of morphological features 

 which has taken place in the Gulf and Caribbean region with the 

 progress of the Tertiary. Pyrula pilshryi is more specialized than the 

 Eocene forms, but less specialized than the later races which are 




l'.)()7.J NATUHAL SCIKXCKS OF I'lII LADKI.I'HI A. 217 



grouped together as P. papyratia. When we compare P. pilshryi with 

 P. (kcussata of the Panamic geographical province we find that the 

 Pacific form is distinct in its later whorls, but very similar to the fossils 

 in the characters of its apex. 



Altogether this evidence points to free communication between the 

 Atlantic and Pacific basins during Miocene time, a time when most 

 Pyrulas possessed the primitive type of apex. With the end of the 

 Miocene this strait betw^een the two oceans was closed by the elevation 

 of the land bridge which has ever since connected the continents of 

 North and South America. From the time when this barrier was 

 interposed down to the present the forms of the Caribbean and 

 Gulf regions have undergone a striking evolution, marked by the 

 accleration of the cancellated stage and the enlargement of the initial 

 whorl. On the other hand, the forms inhabiting the waters on the 

 Pacific side of the isthmus have retained the ancient apical features of 

 the Miocene. 



Summary. 



The assemblage of forms treated in this paper is particularly well 

 adapted for showing the mutations and variations of a gastropod stock. 

 In order that the results may be of value it is essential that the group 

 be a restricted one. Pyrula, or at least that part of the genus here 

 considered, fulfills the above conditions. The distinctions between 

 its species are so slight, and they are all so unlike the examples of other 

 genera, that we may well feel that they constitute a single genetic stock. 



In addition to the slight but more apparent specific differences 

 furnished by the cancellated stage we have the differences exhibited 

 by the apices. If we trace the members of the genus back into the 

 Tertiary, we find every gradation between the two extremes of apical 

 modification. 



The more important changes Avhich have taken place since the late 

 Eocene are found not so much in the adult sculpture as in the features 

 of the apex. We have, especially in America, a regular series, beginning 

 with forms having a smooth stage of two or three whorls, followed by 

 species in which the smooth stage is more restricted, and finally termi- 

 nating in Pyrula papyratia of Gulf and Caribbean waters, whose 

 smooth stage does not persist beyond the close of the first whorl. This 

 change from the two- or three-whorled smooth stage to the one-whorled 

 smooth stage is accompanied throughout by the gradual enlargement 

 of the early whorls. The more restricted the smooth stage becomes 

 the larger grows the initial whorl. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-^lay, 



If we examine the recent species of Py7'ida,\xe find here again different 

 apical characters which can visually be duplicated in the fossil forms of 

 the American rocks. For instance, though their adult sculptures may 

 differ, the recent species P. decussata and P. dussumieri and the Oligo- 

 cene (or Miocene) P. pilshryi all possess a very similar style of apex. 



At the present day the genus is widely distributed in the shallow 

 waters of the tropical seas. Though these seas are now separated by 

 land barriers, it is probable that in Eocene, Oligocene and Miocene 

 times the marine connections between the different provinces were 

 much more prominent features of the geography. Then, in all likeli- 

 hood, the genus had a continuous distribution around the world; and 

 even where land barriers were interposed near the equator, it is probable 

 that a more generally moderate climate enabled its representatives to 

 pass through latitudes where now their existence would be impossible. 



The differences between Pyrula dussumieri of China and P. decus- 

 sata of the west coast of Central America were probably produced 

 by some change which forbade the intermingling of the inhabitants 

 of the two provinces. At present the deep water of the tropical Pacific 

 and the colder climate in the shallower parts of that ocean are both 

 sufficient barriers to keep the species apart. Wliether their separation 

 w^as originally caused by a change of climate in higher latitudes, or b}' 

 a depression in some part of the bottom of the tropical Pacific, or by 

 the working of both of these factors, it is, of course, impossible to say. 



The relations of Pyrula decussata with P. papyratia are probably 

 more certain. In the Oligocene and Miocene the Pyrulas with the 

 generalized apex had a free passage between the Atlantic and Pacific 

 basins, and there was no differentiation into two geographical provinces. 

 With the close of the Miocene the land barrier of the Isthmus of Panama 

 was thrown up, the two oceans were separated and two geographical 

 provinces created. After this the forms of the eastern waters, for 

 some unknown reason, followed out a line of evolution which w^as chief!}" 

 marked by apical modifications, while the Pacific forms changed 

 slightly in the cancellated stage but retained the old Miocene type of 

 apex. 



Perhaps the most important points emphasized by this study are the 

 following: (1) We may have living at any one time on the earth's 

 surface an assemblage of closely related gastropod species which differ 

 to a marked degree in the evolutional grades which they have attained. 



(2) In a group of closely related gastropod species the chief modifica- 

 tions which are introduced with the passage of time may occur iJiainly in 

 the features of the early ivhorls, while the later adult ivhorls inay re^nain 

 relatively unchanged. 




J '■*<'"•] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHI LADKI-I'III A . 210 



(3) In this particular grou}) of species the differences in tlie apical 

 characters cannot be used for the division of the assemblage into 

 separate genera," but are of use only as aids to specific discrimination, 

 and then only when the characters of the later whorls are considered 

 together with those of the apex. 



Explanation of Plate XVII. 



Fig. 1. — Apex of Pijrula papyratia Say. Recent. Lee County, Fla, Shows 



the smooth stage restricted to the large and swollen first whorl. The can- 

 cellated stage starts with the beginning of the second whorl. Greatest 



diameter = 3.2 mm. 

 Fig. 2. — Apex of Pyrula papyratia cahosahatchiensis. Pliocene. Caloosahatchie 



River, Fla. Here the cancellated stage is hardly as accelerated as in fig. 1. 



Greatest diameter = 3.2 mm. 

 Fig. 3. — Apex of Pyrula pilsbryi dupUnensis. Miocene. Duplin County, N. C. 



The smooth stage occupies about 1.5 whorls. Here the initial whorl is 



smaller than in figs. 1 and 2. 

 P^ig. 4. — Apex of Pyrula pilsbryi n. s. Oligocene (or Miocene). Bowden, 



Jamaica. Smooth stage occupying about 1.75 whorls. Greatest diameter 



= 3 mm. 

 Fig. 5. — Apex of Pyrula mississippiensis Con. Oligocene. Vicksburg Beds, 



Vicksburg, Miss. Here the initial whorl is much smaller than in P. pilsbryi 



and the smooth stage extends over three whorls. Greatest diameter = 3.5 



mm. 

 Fig. 6. — Apex of Pyrula filia Meyer. Eocene. .Jackson Beds, Jackson, Miss. 



Smooth stage of about 2.5 whorls. Greatest diameter = 3.5 mm. 

 Fig. 7. — Apex of Pyrula decussata Wood. Recent. Acapulco. Smooth stage 



of about 2 whorls. Greatest diameter = 2.8 mm. 

 Fig. 8. — Apex of Pyrula dussumieri Valenc. Recent. China. Smooth stage of 



about 1.6 whorls. Greatest diameter = 3 mm. 

 Fig. 9. — Apex of Pyrula ficus Linn. Recent. East Indies. Smooth stage of 



about 1.7 whorls. Greatest diameter = 2.6 mm. 



" See Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, 1905, Pt. II, p. 325, "Notes on Proso- 

 brancliiata. No. IV — The Ontogenetic Stages represented by the Gastropod 

 Protoconch," by H. Leighton Kesteven. On p. 334 he saj's: "The protoconch is 

 to be used in conjunction -vNith other features, and that only wliere the other 

 features, anatomic or conchological, are negative or unkno\vn is it to be used in 

 deciding a systematic position or generic segregation." 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



THE POLYCYSTID GREGARINES OF THE UNITED STATES (Third Contribution). 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



In 1853 Leidy described a gregarine parasite of the common cricket. 

 To this animal he gave the name of Gregarina achetoe-ahhreviatce, the 

 host being at that time known as Acheta ahbreviata. The parasite was 

 illustrated by figs. 32-34 of Leidy's plate 11. In my first communica- 

 tion on our gregarines (Crawley, 1903) I reproduced two of Leidy's 

 figures, and based my description partly upon these and partly upon 

 his text. A glance at these figures, Nos. 34 and 35 of my paper, will 

 suggest at once that they portray different species of gregarines, and 

 studies which I made during the summer of 1906 show that this is so. 

 For the animal shown in Leidy's fig. 34, copied in my fig. 35, I have 

 retained the name given by Leidy, while the other is tentatively placed 

 in the genus Stenophora. I have also considered it advisable to 

 redescribe Gregarina achetce-ahbreviatce, and have given a new figure, 

 a camera outline from a living solitary gregarine. 

 Gregarina aolietse-abbreviatae Leidy. (PI. XVin, fig. 1.) 



Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe Leidy (1853), p. 238, pi. 11, fig. 34. 

 Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe Crawley (1903), p. 45, pi. 3, fig. 35. 

 Gregarina achetoe abbreriatoe Crawley (1903o), pp. 639, 641. 



Protomerite. — Hemispherical to globular, broader than long. 

 Shape modified in the associations. 



Deutomerite. — Ellipsoidal to oval. 



Epiajte. — Thin, delicately striated. 



Sarcocyte. — Thin, but present all over the animal. 



Myocyte. — Easily demonstrated by the use of reagents. 



Entocyte. — Dense, but, following the usual rule, less dense in the 

 protomerite than in the deutomerite. In most of the specimens which 

 I'encountered, the peripheral part of the entocyte was almost free of 

 granules; this phenomenon being much more conspicuous in the deuto- 

 merite than in the protomerite. 



Nucleus. — Not seen. 



Size. — The largest solitary animal I saw was 500 microns long. 



Habit. — Solitary or associated in pairs. 



Cysts. — Spherical, provided with a thick gelatinous envelope 

 Diameter of cyst mass, 225-275 microns. Thickness of gelatinous 

 envelope, 30-300 microns. Dehiscence by sporoducts, 2-5 in number, 

 reaching a length of 1,000 microns. Prior to evagination, the situation 




l^O"-] XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



of the sporodiicts is ])lainly indicated liy the appearance around the 

 periphery of the cyst of dense discoid masses. These are yellowish 

 in color, owin^- to the presence of oil. Time required for maturation, 

 1-4 days. 



.Spores.— Cylindrical, with rounded ends to dolifirm. Dimensions, 

 4.5 by 2.25 microns. 



Host. — Gn/Uus abbrcviatus Serv. 



Locality.— ]^each Haven, New Jersey, and Wyncote, Pennsylvania. 

 Stenophora erratioa sp. n. (PL XVIII, flg. 5.) 



Grcgarina achetoe ahhreviatw Leidy (1853), p. 238, pi. 11, fig. 33. 

 Gregarina achetce abbreviatoe Crawlej^ (1903), p. 45, pi. 3, fig. 34. 



The general form of this gregarine is shown in fig. 5, which was 

 drawn from a young individual, 150 microns long. In the older 

 animals, while the protomerite is much as here shown, although at 

 times relatively shorter, the deutomerite varies considerably in shape. 

 In some its outline is an elongated ellipse, while in others it is broadest 

 near the posterior end, tapering slowl}^ and gradually forward to the 

 septum. The largest animal seen was 500 microns long. 



The epicyte shows distinctly a double contour, and is 1.5 microns 

 thick. The sarcocyte is present all over the animal, and reaches a 

 thickness of 2.5 microns. At the anterior tip of the protomerite, the 

 ectosarc is often thickened to form a low papilla, wathin which are 

 traces of a pore. It is this character which led me to place the gre- 

 garine in the genus Stenophora. The entocyte is dense, except in the 

 anterior third of the protomerite, where it is almost free of granules. 



These gregarines are not at all polymorphic, but almost constantly 

 display the progressive movement. They are by no means infrequent 

 in crickets, but always present in small numbers. The suggestion is 

 permissible that this form is actually the common Stenophora julipusiUi 

 Leidy, somewhat altered in appearance from being in the wrong host. 

 Crickets and Julida? frequently occur in the same environment, and the 

 former might readily swallow spores derived from the feces of the 

 latter. This done, the spores might readily develop, although pro- 

 ducing slightly atypical gregarines. There is an excellent field here 

 for experimental work. 



In addition to the two forms considered above, the cricket harbors 

 a third, a true Gregarina, which is herewith described. 

 Gregarina kingi' sp. n. (PL XVIII, ligs. 10-12.) 



Protomerite. — In the primites, the protomerite, as seen in fig. 10, 



' To Dr. H. D. King. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



is sometimes saddle-shaped. While this peculiarity of contour is not 

 always so striking as here shown, the protomerite is always broad and 

 swollen in front, and much narrower behind. This serves to separate 

 this species from Gregarina achetoe-ahhreviatoe. In the satellites, the 

 protomerite is subspherical to compressed. 



Deutomerite. — Cylindrical, generally somewhat broader in front. 

 Outlines often irregular. 



Epicyte. — Very delicate. 



Sarcocyte. — Feebly developed, except in the anterior part of the 

 protomerite, where there is a conspicuous crescentic thickening. 

 According to my observations, this character was more marked in the 

 younger than in the older animals. 



Entocyte. — Not dense. 



Nucleus. — Moderate in size. 



Size. — Largest pair seen, 350 microns long. 



Habit. — Nearly always associated in pairs. Satellite generally 

 slightly and sometimes considerably smaller than the primite. When 

 the connection between a pair is broken, the anterior sm^face of the 

 protomerite of the satellite shows a slightly raised ring. Thus the 

 posterior end of the primite fits into a very shallow saucer on the 

 anterior end of the satellite. 



Movements. — The gregarines seen were more or less constantly 

 bending and contracting, but showed little or no disposition to progress. 



Cysts. — Round, occasionally oval. The cyst mass varies from 90- 

 110 microns in diameter. There is a cuticular wall 6-7 microns thick, 

 outside of which a gelatinous envelope develops. In newly formed 

 cysts, taken from the mid-gut of the host, the gelatinous envelope is 

 so diaphanous as to appear merely as a halo round the dense central 

 mass. But in cj^sts taken from the feces in the hind-gut, the gelatin- 

 ous envelope is much more evident. This change in appearance is 

 doubtless merely due to the accumulation of detritus. 



Of the cysts found in the host intestine, some are uniformly opaque, 

 with a clear space just inside the cuticle. Others are less opaque, 

 sometimes mottled; sometimes with an irregular dense central mass 

 and a clear periphery. These different aspects represent different 

 developmental stages, and indicate that maturation is rapid in this 

 species. This was confirmed by the behavior of cysts placed on slides 

 in a moist chamber. A considerable number, many of which had just 

 formed, were so isolated on July 2, and all were found to have dehisced 

 on July 4, no observation having been taken on July 3. The period 

 is thus 1-2 days, which is in close agreement with that of Gregarina 

 achetoe-ahhreviatoe. 




1'.>U7.] XATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PIIILAUKLPHIA. 223 



Dehiscence is by a single sporoduct, which may reach a length of 

 750 microns. A discharged cyst is shown in fig. 12. The residuum 

 is a loose mass of granules and debris which nearly fills the cavity 

 within. The duct is limited externally by a cuticular wall. Within 

 it is filled by a soft substance, through the center of wliich can be 

 seen the lumen along which the spores had passed. This lumen, 

 however, shows no definitive membrane, being merely a channel 

 through this soft substance, which is probably of the same nature as 

 the residuum. 



In one case observed, the spores still la}' in situ as they had been 

 projected from the duct. The duct was 600 microns long; the file of 

 spores 2,400. Hence the leading spore had reached a distance of 3 

 millimeters from the cyst. In consideration, however, of the size and 

 activity of the host, it is not easy to see how the scattering of the 

 spores over such an infinitesimal area can cut much of a figure in 

 their dissemination. 



Spores. — Rounded cylinders or barrel-shaped. Dimensions, 5 by 

 2.75 microns. 



Host. — Gryllus ahbreviatus Serv. The gregarines occurred in perhaps 

 25 per cent, of the crickets opened. But when present, they are 

 present in countless numbers, compact masses of gregarines as large 

 as peas being found. It does not seem likely that such extensive 

 infections can be due merely to the chance picking up of stray spores. 

 More probably we have here to do either with cannibalism or the 

 devouring of dead comrades. 



Gregarina melanopli sp. n. (PI. XVin, figs. C-9.) 



Protomeritc. — In the young solitary animals, the protomerite is 

 cubical, with rounded corners, to mammaliform, and often shows in 

 front a low, broad projection. In the associated gregarines, it has 

 the form of a greatly compressed hemisphere. 



Deutomerite. — In the young, cylindrical to flask-shaped. There is 

 generally a slight constriction in the middle. In the pairs, cylindrical, 

 but with a very variable ratio of length to breadth. Two cases are 

 shown in figs. 8 and 9, which are camera outlines of li\'ing gregarines. 



Epicyte. — Longitudinally striated. The following measurements of 

 its thickness are taken from a large pair: 



Primite. — 



Anterior tip of protomerite 5 microns. 



Sides of protomerite 5 " 



Sides of deutomerite 1-2 ^ " 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Satellite.— 



Anterior corners of protomerite 3 microns. 



Sides of deutomerite 1-2 " 



Posterior end of deutomerite 4 " 



Sarcocyte. — Differentiated into an outer hyaline and an inner granu- 

 lar layer. Its thickness in the various parts of the same large pair from 

 which the above measurements of the epicyte were taken is given in 

 the following table : 



Primite. — 



Front of protomerite 15 microns. 



Sides of protomerite 5 " 



Sides of deutomerite 10 " 



Satellite. — 



Anterior corners of protomerite 16 microns. 



Sides of deutomerite 10-12 



Posterior end of deutomerite 6 '' 



It may be noted here that in those parts where the epicyte thickens, 

 the sarcocyte thins. A like condition has been noted by Leger for 

 Amphoroides polydesmi. 



Entocyte. — Very dense. Tinged with brownish yellow. The nucleus 

 shows merely as a lighter area. 



Size. — The solitary animals ranged in length from 200-370 microns. 

 The lengths of a number of pairs, in microns, are given in the appended 

 list: 



Priynite. Satellite. Total. 



675 750 1425 



640 710 1350 



600 750 1350 



600 710 1310 



600 700 1300 



525 500 1025 



420 450 870 



The first was the largest pair seen. In nearly all cases, the primite 

 was the shorter and broader animal. 



Habit. — The gregarines, according to the particular host examined, 

 were either nearly all solitary or nearly all associated. I examined, 

 however, but very few locusts ; so cannot say if this^be the rule. In one, 

 in which I found some fifty pairs, they occurred in an almost solid 

 mass in the host's intestine, gradually separating when placed upon the 

 slide. 



Movements. — The animals are somewhat polymorphic, undergoing 




1007.] NATURAL SfTFA-CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



fairly extensive changes of shape. Such changes, however, were 

 always effected very slowly. They also progressed in curves and 

 straight lines, but in a most leisurely manner. 



Host. — Mela nop! us femoral us (Burm.). 



Locality. — Wyncote, Pennsylvania. 



As with his G. achcloe-abbreviatoe, so with his G. locustoe-curolinaz , 

 Leidy (1853) seems to have described two species under one name. 

 ]\Iy observations of the summer of 1906 show that the host in question, 

 Dissostcira Carolina (L.), then known as Locusta Carolina, is infected by 

 two gregarines. One of these is in all probability a true Gregarina, 

 and I believe Leidy's figs. 35 and 36 to be representations of it. On 

 the other hand, his fig. 37 is probably a Stephanophora, and it has been 

 placed in that genus by me (Crawley, 1903). The confusion seems 

 best cleared up by retaining Leidy's name for the true Gregarina, and 

 creating a new one for the Stephanophora. The two species are 

 defined below. 



Gregarina looustae-carolinsB Leidy. (PL XVIII, fig. 13.) 



Gregarina locustoE-carolinoe Leidj^ (1853), p. 239, pi. 11, figs. 35, 36. 

 Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (185G), p. 47. 

 Gregarina fimbriata Diessing (1859), p. 730. 

 Gregarina locusfoe-carolina; Labbe (1899), p. 35. 

 Stephanophora locustae-carolina; Crawley (1903), p. oi. 



Epimerite. — A small rounded knob, cut off from the protomerite by 

 a very short neck. The epicyte of the epimerite is continuous with 

 that of the protomerite, and does not intervene between the two 

 segments, the boundary between which is formed by the sarcocyte 

 of the protomerite. A small quantity of entocyte is present. 



Protomerite. — Globular in the cephalonts, and nearly so in the 

 sporonts. Posterior boundary plane. 



Deutomerite. — Globular to oval or even cylindrical in the cephalonts. 

 Oval to cylindrical in the sporonts. 



Epicyte. — Shows a double contour. 



Sarcocyte. — In the cephalonts and very small sporonts, well developed, 

 especially in the anterior part of the protomerite. 



Entocyte. — Pale. This applies to the young animals; my notes 

 being silent as to its condition in the adults. 



Nucleus. — Large, with one large karyosome. 



Size. — The largest animal seen was 350 microns long. The appear- 

 ance of this individual, however, did not suggest full maturity. The 

 cephalonts were 100-110 microns long. Decapitation takes place 

 early. Quite a number of small gregarines were seen, all about 100 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



microns long, the youthfulness of which was plainly indicated by their 

 transparency, and fully half had lost their epimerites. 



Host. — Dissosteira Carolina (L.). 



Locality. — ^Wyncote, Pennsylvania. 



Stephanophora pachyderma sp. n. (PI. XVIII, figs. 2, 3.) 



Grcgarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (1853), p. 239, pi. 11, figs. 37, 38. 

 Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Leidy (1856), p. 47. 

 Gregarina fimbriata Diessing (1859), p. 730. 

 Gregarina locustoe-carolinoe Labbe (1899), p. 35. 

 Stephanophora locustce-carolinoe Crawley (1903), p. 54. 



Epimerite. — Consists of a cylindrical piece, bearing in front a number 

 of forwardly directed digitiform processes. Separated from the proto-- 

 merite by a mere constriction, no definitive neck being formed. 



Protomerite. — In the cephalonts, consisting of a cylindrical basal 

 portion, narrowing regularly in front to the base of the epimerite. 

 This anterior conical part, which makes up one-half the length of the 

 protomerite, is composed entirely of ectosarc. In the sporonts, 

 almost perfectly hemispherical, with its contour continuous with that 

 of the deutomerite. 



Deutomerite. — In the cephalonts, lanceolate, with a blunt posterior 

 end. Broader than the protomerite, and broadest just behind the 

 septum. There is scarcely a constriction between the two. In the 

 sporonts, heart-shaped. 



. Epicyte. — ^Thickness 2-3 microns. The thickness is essentially 

 uniform over the entire gregarine, except for a small region at the 

 anterior tip of the protomerite. Here the epicyte thickens on its inner 

 surface, making a small indentation into the sarcocyte. 



Sarcocyte. — Always very thick. In the cephalonts, making up one- 

 half the length of the protomerite. On account of the change of shape 

 which follows decapitation, the sarcocyte is more conspicuous in the 

 protomerite of the cephalonts than in that of the sporonts. Yet even 

 in the latter, it here measures 30 microns, which is reduced to 12 

 microns elsewhere. 



Entocyte. — In the sporonts, black in transmitted light in the deuto- 

 merite. Not quite so dense in the protomerite, and here showing a 

 relatively clear space, as indicated in fig. 3. 



Nucleus.— ¥ airly large, with a number of karyosomes. 



Size. — The largest sporont seen was 500 microns long. 



Host. — Dissosteira Carolina (L.). 



Locality. — Wyncote, Pennsylvania. 



The perfectly oval shape of this last species, sometimes disguised 

 by their habit of holding the long axis bent, is probably normal. Yet 

 one balloon-shaped specimen was seen. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 227 



The animals are present only sparingly in the infected locusts, and 

 occur in both the mid-gut and p3doric cieca. 



One specimen was observed which showed behind it a gelatinous 

 stalk, such as described by Schewiakoff (1S94), and considered by him 

 to furnish the means for the progressive movement. This stalk, 

 although differing but very slightly in refractive index from the water, 

 could plainly be seen. Since, however, the stalk was carried about Ijy 

 the gregarine as a mammal carries its tail, the sole influence it could 

 have possibly had upon progression would have been that of a hind- 

 rance. 



The actual extrusion of the substance of this stalk was not witnessed , 

 but that the gregarines were liberally provided with some kind of a 

 gelatinous matter was demonstrated by killing them with iodine. 

 Animals so killed showed, on their surfaces, great numbers of small 

 globules. 



I have finally to describe a Geniorhynchiis, probably distinct from 

 the European form. 

 Geniorhynolius aeshnae sp. n. (I'l. XVIII, fig. 4.) 



Epimerite. — Consists of an ellipsoidal or globular head, borne on a 

 short neck which may be considerably swollen. The head is liberally 

 provided with short spines, directed backward. 



Protomerite. — Large, having the form of a truncated cone with 

 slightly curved contours. Broader than the deutomerite. 



Deutomerite. — Conical to cylindrical, terminating bluntly. The 

 posterior fourth generally showed, in the cases observed, one or more 

 deep constrictions, which underwent slow changes. 



Epicyte. — Thin, longitudhially striated. 



Sarcocyte. — Well developed. In the protomerite, it is enormously 

 thickened, occupying the anterior third of the segment as a solid mass, 

 which rapidly thins out behind. It here contains a few small granules. 



Entocyte. — Not especially dense, and usually thinning out consider- 

 ably toward the surface. 



Nucleus. — Shows several irregularl}^ shaped karyosomes. 



Size. — 420 microns long. 



Host. — Nymph of JEshna constricta Sa}'. 



Locality. — Southeastern Pennsylvania. 




228 proceedings of the academy of [may, 



Bibliography. 



Crawley, Howard. 1903. List of the Polycystid Gregarines of the United 



States. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., January, 1903, pp. 41-58, pis. 1-3. 

 Crawley, Howard. 1903a. The Polycystid Gregarines of the United Sates. 



(Second Contribution.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., October, 1903, pp. 



632-644, pi. 30. 

 DiESSiNG, C. M. 1859. Revision der Rhvngodeen. Sitz. Wien Akad., Bd. 37, 



pp. 719-782. 

 L.\BBE, A. 1899. Das Tierreich; 5 Lief., Sj^orozoa. Berlin, R. Friedlander und 



Sohn, 1899. 

 Leidy, Joseph. 1853. On the Organization of the genus Gregarina of Diifour. 



Trans. Amer. Phil. Society, Vol. 10, N. S., pp. 233-241, pis. 11, 12. 

 Leidy, Joseph. 1856. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., Vol. 8, p. 47 (verbal 



communication). 

 ScHEWiAKOFF, V. 1894. Ueber die Ursache der fortschreitenden Bewegung der 



Gregarinen. Zeitschr. /. iviss. zooL, Bd. 58, pp. 340-354, Taf. 20, 21. 



Explanation of Plate XVIII. 



Fig. 1. — Gregarina achetoe-abbreviatoe (p. 220). Camera outline of sporont. 



Fig. 2. — Stephanophora pachyderma (p. 226). Cephalont. 



Fig. 3. — Stephanophora pachyderma (p. 226). Sporont. 



Fig. 4. — Geniorhynchus oeschnoe (p. 227). Cephalont. 



Pig. 5. — Stenophora erratica (p. 221). Young sporont. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Gregarina melanopli (p. 223). Young solitary sporonts. 



Figs. 8, 9. — Gregarina melanopli (p. 223). Camera outlines of two pairs. 



Figs. 10, 11. — Gregarina kingi (p. 223). Paired individuals. 



Fig. 12. — Gregarina kingi (p. 221). Discharged c^'st. Only the basal oortion of 



the sporoduct is shown. 

 Fig. 13. — Gregarina locustoe-carolina (p. 225). Cephalont 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 220 



a new species of athleta and a note on the morphology of 

 athleta petrosa. 



by burnett smith. 



Introduction. ■ 



Though the present paper is intended primarily to show some of the 

 variations and mutations exhibited by one of our Eocene Volutoid 

 stocks, recent work in nomenclature has necessitated certain changes 

 of generic names, and therefore a brief explanation of these changes is 

 essential to a proper understanding of the forms here considered. 



In April, 1906, Dr. DalP called attention to the fact that the type of 

 Swainson's genus Volutilithes is not Voluta spinosa (which had been 

 previously accepted by most authors), but Voluta muricina Lam. A 

 similar observation was made by Mr. R. Bullen Newton^ in June, 1906. 

 Taking Voluta muricina as the type for the genus Volutilithes, it is 

 plainly evident that such forms as Voluta spinosa of Lamarck and 

 Vohita petrosa of Conrad must be furnished with a separate generic 

 designation and not included in the genus Volutilithes. In selecting a 

 name for these forms the writer has followed the suggestions of M. 

 Cossmann^ and revived Conrad's Athleta.* The type of Athleta is the 

 European Athleta rarispina. 



The forms studied in the present paper are all either specifically 

 identical with or else closely related to Conrad's Voluta petrosa, which 

 for so many years has been familiar to American palaeontologists as 

 Volutilithes petrosus. As the author has recently stated,^ the study 

 of large and carefully collected series from the Gulf States has con- 

 vinced him that the forms described as Athleta tuomeyi by Conrad are 

 nothing but races of his Voluta petrosa which have been subjected to 

 an unfavorable environment. "They are of one genetic stock, and the 

 differences can in no sense be regarded as generic; in fact they are not 

 even specific." 



' The Nautilus, "Xote on some Names in the Volutidte," p. 143. 

 ' "Note on Swainson's Genus Volutilithes," Proc. Maine. Soc. Land., June, 1906, 

 p. 100. 

 ' Revue Critique de Paleozoologie, p. 222, Oct., 1900. 



* "Svnopsis of the Genus Cassidula and of a proposed new genus Athleta," 

 Proc. Acad. Xat. Sri. Philn., Vol. VI, 1852-3. 



* The Xautihis. March, 1907, p. 131. 



U) 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



Now AthJeta rarispina certainly has generic affinity with both Con- 

 rad's Athleta tuomeyi and Lamarck's Voluta spinosa. When we com- 

 pare Lamarck's Voluta spinosa and Conrad's Voluta petrosa, no differ- 

 ences M^hich can be regarded as other than specific are observed. We 

 have therefore at least four species of Athleta, two American and two 

 European. The two American are connected by every gradation of 

 intermediate and cannot be considered as specifically distinct. The 

 European forms are separate species.^ In spite, therefore, of minor 

 morphologic differences, and of discrepancies in the time range and in 

 the geographical distribution, we must regard these forms as belonging 

 to one generic group and apply the name Athleta to them all. Athleta 

 petrosa would then include both Voluta petrosa and Athleta tuomeyi; 

 the value of the designation tuomeyi should, however, in no case be 

 more than subspecific. 



The assemblages which may be grouped under the specific name 

 Athleta petrosa are widely distributed in our Gulf Eocene. The race 

 from any particular locality or bed usually differs from other races, but 

 nevertheless all of them possess so many characters in common that 

 further specific division would be inadvisable. Every individual 

 gradation and not a few racial gradations may be found to connect the 

 normal Athleta petrosa with the abnormal Athleta petrosa tuomeyi. As 

 far as the author knows, it is only at two localities that we find forms 

 associated with Athleta petrosa which, though closely related, must be 

 considered as distinct species.^ The cases in question are at Claiborne,. 

 Alabama, where the closely related associate species is Athleta sayana, 

 and at St. Maurice, Louisiana, where the closely related associate is here 

 designated as the new species Athleta clayi. 



The races of Athleta petrosa and their allies from the Alabama- 

 Mississippi region have been considered in a previous paper. ^ In 

 their case, thanks to the work of Prof. Eugene A. Smith and Mr. Law- 

 rence C. Johnson,^ it is possible to arrange the races in chronologic 

 order. In the present study the races discussed are mostly from the 

 Eocene beds west of the Mississippi River, and unfortunately the 



° Dr. Dall {Trans. Wag. Inst., Vol. 3, p. 75) says: "In America, however, the 

 deposition of calkis never became normal and regular, though in Europe .4. 

 rarispina and A. ficulina Lam. exhibit a normal. Cassis-like expansion around the 

 aperture of what, without it, is a typical Volutilithes." At this time Dr. Dall 

 regarded Voluta spinosa as the type of Vobitilithes. 



' Volutilithes precursor oi Dall and Volutilithes dallioi Harris.though in the same 

 genus with Athleta petrosa, are not very nearly related to it. 



*"Ph}4ogeny of the Races of Volutilithes petrosus," Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., May, 1906, p. .52. 



* Bull. 43, U. S. G. S., "Tertiary and Cretaceous Starta of the Tuscaloosa, 

 Tombigbee, and Alabama Rivers," Eugene A. Smith and Lawrence C. Johnson. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 231 



stratigraphy of the minor divisions is there only poorly understood. 

 The researches of Prof. Gilbert D. Harris have, it is true, done much 

 to make clear the succession in Louisiana and Texas; but it is still 

 impossible to ascertain the relations of the less important beds with 

 each other or with their time equivalents in the standard sections of 

 Alabama. In this western Gulf region we have three well defined 

 formations in which Athleta petrosa and its allies occur. These are the 

 Lignitic, Lower Claiborne and Jackson. 



Morphology. 



As with the races from the Alabama sections, we find that the Athleta 

 petrosa assemblage from any one locality or horizon is apt to differ 

 more or less from that found at another locality or horizon. Not 

 infrequently certain individuals of a race will depart to some extent 

 from the racial norm, but these make usually but a small minority of 

 the assemblage. "In other words, the majority of specimens from 

 any one locality or horizon show a certain stage of evolution." 



Throughout the present paper the author has used the same terms 

 which were employed in dealing with the Alabama forms. As before 

 we have the smooth stage, curved rib stage, cancellated stage, spiny 

 stage and senile stage. The senile and spiny stages may be separate 

 or associated together in the same whorl. Rib, spiral, tubercle, spine, 

 etc., are all used in the same sense, and the end of the fu'st whorl is 

 again placed (arbitrarily, of course) in the same position. 

 Athleta petrosa tuomeyi. 



Sabinetowui Race. 



Locality. — Sabinetown, Texas. 



Horizon. — Lignitic beds. 



This series is small and the individuals are poorly preserved. There 

 are no very young ones, and the shelly overgrowth produced by the 

 protruded mantle is very extreme in the old individuals. This, together 

 with the poor state of preservation, renders detailed morphologic work 

 impossible. These forms are typically senile, the most marked feature 

 being the monstrous shelly overgrowth which results from the pro- 

 trusion of the mantle onto the preceding whorl. In addition they arc 

 very small and dwarfed. They resemble closely the Hatchetigbee 

 forms of Alabama, but are even more extreme and dwarfed. If they 

 are members of the same senile phylogenetic series which we find in 

 Alabama they are indeed descendants of the Hatchetigbee Bluff Race. 

 They may, however, be synchronous with any one of the Alabama 

 senile groups, and be merely the expression of conditions which were 




232 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [MaV, 



much more unfavorable than those influencing the more eastern 

 assemblages during Lignitic time.^'' 



Athleta petrosa. 



Lower Claiborne Races. 



In the Alabama sections we find forms representing in a general way 

 the Athleta petrosa main stock at a date as early as the Nanafalia 

 Lignitic. In the western Gulf region no such normal types are known 

 to the author from below the horizon of the Lower Claiborne beds. 

 In other words the Lignitic forms from Texas, etc., are (as far as ob- 

 served) abnormal, and even these senile representatives are rare. No 

 evidence of the presence of these abnormal members has yet been 

 presented by the sediments found above the Lignitic beds of this 

 region. 



The Lower Claiborne races of Athleta petrosa, then, may all be grouped 

 as members of the Athleta petrosa main stock. As a rule each locality 

 is characterized by a single, comparatively homogeneous race, the 

 great majority of whose individuals differs more or less in certain 

 minor characters from the races of other localities. Exceptionally, 

 however, we find two very slightly different strains in the assemblage 

 from a given place. These insignificant peculiarities may sometimes, 

 be important in locating the probable ancestry of later forms. iVgain, 

 in a few places we find a well-defined race of Athleta petrosa accom- 

 panied by a very closely allied derived form, which has departed 

 enough from its parent stock to be described as a distinct species. 



The Lower Claiborne of Ijouisiana and Texas furnishes many good 

 collecting grounds which afford excellent material for exhibiting the 

 variations and mutations of Athleta petrosa. Nine localities which 

 offer large series of well-preserved specimens have been selected, antl 

 the developmental shell stages of their races have been arranged in 

 tabulated form. With the exception of Moseley Feny all the localities 

 chosen have comparatively homogeneous races of Athleta petrosa. At 

 iMoseley Ferry there are, howfever, two well-marked strains of Athleta 

 petrosa. These two strains are very close, but one is of interest as 

 foreshadowing the characters of the Jackson and Montgomery races of • 

 later time. It is greatly to be regretted that our knowledge of the 

 stratigraphy will not permit us to arrange the Lower Claiborne races 

 in chronologic order. 



'" The Sabinetown beds have usually been correlated with the Wood's Bluff 

 beds of Alabama. See Gilbert D. Harris and A. C. 'S'eatch, Geol. Surv. La., Rep. 

 V, 1899, p. 67, and also A. C. Veatcli, Geol. Surv. La., 1902, p. 125. 




i9o: 



NATURAL SCIK.WKS OF I'lll LA1)I;LI'II1 A. 



233 



In the following tables the figures stand for the whorl, while the 

 letters are used for the different ontogenetic stages as follows: 



A — Smooth stage. D— Spiny stage. 



B — Curved rib stage. E — Senile stage. 



! C — Cancellated stage. I — Individual variation. 



1 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 



Mount Lebanon, La. 



Lewis House, two miles 

 east of Alto, Tex. 



Nine miles southeast of 

 Jewett, Tex. 



Smithville, Tex. 



Hurricane Bavou, Hou>- 

 tonCo.,Tex. 



Alabama Bluff, Trinity 

 River, Houston Co., 

 Tex. 



Shipp's Ford, Bastrop 

 Co., Tex. 



Moseley Ferry, Tex. 



Moseley Ferry (Jackson 

 Strain). 



St. Maurice, La. 



A 



A 



A 



A 



A 



A 



A 



A 



A 



g- 



B 



li 



II 



B 



B 



B 



-H- 



^ 



B 



B 



-H- 



D 



D 



II 



D 



D 



D 



D 



D 



a 



D 



Table I. — Showing variability in the Icnjith of tlie smooth stage and relative 

 constancy in the beginning of the spiny stage in the Loavcf Claiborne races 

 of .1 . pdrosa . 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



AtWeta petrosa. 



Montgomery Race. 



Locality. — Montgomery, Louisiana. 



Horizon. — Jackson beds. 



The Montgomery race is, from a geological standpoint, cotemporane- 

 ous with the Jackson race of Jackson, Mississippi. In its early whorls 

 it is perhaps a little less accelerated than the Jackson race. The 

 following table will serve to illustrate its relations with the Mississippi 

 forms and with the probable Lower Claiborne ancestor. 



1 2 o 4 5 G 7 8 9 10 11 12 



Moseley Ferry (Jackson 

 Strain). 



Montgomery, La. 



Jackson, Miss. 



Table II. — Showing slight acceleration of the curved rib stage and the beginning 

 of the cancellated stage in the A. petrosa races of Jackson time. The Lower 

 Claiborne ]Moseley Ferry form is introduced as a probable ancestor. 



Athleta clayi n. s." 



Locality. — St. Maurice, Louisiana. 



Horizon. — Lower Claiborne. 



The more important morphological features of this species may be 

 summed up as follows : 



Whorl 1. — Smooth and rounded. 



Whorl 2. — Smooth and rounded at first, but soon a very few untuber- 

 cled but nearly straight ribs appear. These probably represent a 

 somewhat suppressed and condensed clu•^'ed rib stage. They are 

 followed by the straight tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. At 

 first the suture tubercle is the larger, but a shoulder angle soon forms 

 and the shoulder tubercle becomes dominant. 



Whorls 3, 4. — Characterized by the cancellated stage. Much as in 



'' This species has been named in honor of Mr. Randolph Clay, of Philadelphia. 




loo: 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



235 



the latter part of whorl 2, but the ribbing above the shoulder grows 

 weaker. 



Whorls 5, G. — Characterized by the cancellated stage, but toward the 

 entl of 6 the ribbing above the shoulder is gone and the suture tuber- 

 cles are weak. The shoulder tubercle strengthens and the ribbing 

 below it is well developed. Whorls covered with fine spirals from the 

 shoulder downward, but they are stronger below on the branchial 

 siphon. 



Whorl 7. — Still characterized by the cancellated stage. The suture 

 tubercle and the spirals immediately below the shoulder both disappear. 

 The spirals are well developed, however, on the branchial siphon. 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



Fig. 1. — Apex of Athleta dayi. St. j\Iauricc, Louisiana. In the second whorl the 

 short and ahiiost suppressed curved ril) stage is seen passing into the tui^er- 

 cled ribs of the cancellated stage. Length about 1.2 mm. 



Fig. 2. — Athleta dayi. St. Maurice, Louisiana. Mature individual exliibiting in 

 its last whorl the features of the spiny stage. In the mature sculpture it 

 is practically indistinguishable from the adult specimens of A. petrosa. 

 Length = 27.5 mm. 



Toward the end of the whorl the ribbing below the shoulder disappears 

 and the shoulder tubercles become spine-like, so that the cancellated 

 stage ends with the close of whorl 7. 



Whorl 8. — Characterized by the spiny stage. Shoulder spines 

 sharp. Spirals on the branchial siphon only. Shelly smoothing of 

 the preceding whorl is slight. 



Remarks. — This form is distinguished from the St. iMaurice race of 




236 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Athleta petrosa by its large and swollen apex; by its smooth stage 

 which occupies little more than one whorl ; by its more or less suppressed 

 curved rib stage, and by the earlier decline of the spirals immediately 

 below the shoulder. The following table will serve to compare Athleta 

 cJayi with its associate, the St. Maurice race of Athleta petrosa, and also 

 with a probable descendant, Athleta sayana, of Claiborne, Alabama. 



A. petrosa. 



St. Maurice, La. 



A. clayi. 



St. Maurice, La. 



A. Kayana}- 

 Claiborne, Ala. 



Table III. — Showing the greater amount of acceleration in .4. dayi and A. 

 sayana. The less accelerated A. petrosa is introduced for comparison. 



In Table I the compared races of Athleta petrosa are all from one 

 geological formation, the Lower Claiborne. As stated before it is 

 not possible, with our present knowledge of the stratigraphy, to arrange 

 them in the order of their geological succession. This is most unfor- 

 tunate, for it can be seen at a glance that the races differ to a consider- 

 able extent in the acceleration of their shell features. These races 

 may and undoubtedly largely do represent certain episodes in the time 

 range of the stock, but we cannot say which ones are mutations and 

 which ones variations. There appears to be no relation between 

 geographical distribution and degree of acceleration, and even if there 

 were it would mean nothing in view of our ignorance of the stratigraphy. 

 Any attempt at a phylogenetic arrangement of these assemblages, 

 having as its basis the degree of acceleration, is very inadvisable. 

 Such an arrangement would be founded on the assumption that an 

 accelerated form must always and invariably occujDy a higher horizon 

 in the rock series than an unaccelerated form. 



" During 6, 7 and 8 many secondary riblets appear, and these with the spirals 

 produce a secondary cancellation which must not be confused with the primary. 




1907.] XATIHAL SCIIONCES OF IMU LADKLI'lllA. 237 



In these ten Lower Claiborne races it is evident that the early stages 

 vary more than do the later stages. The end of the cancellated stage 

 comes very constantly toward the close of whorl 8. The end of this 

 stage is not as distinct as its beginning, and it is true that the table 

 exaggerates slightly the sharpness of this termination of the cancellated 

 stage. Though the change from the cancellated to the spiny stage is 

 gradual it is usually accomplished within half a whorl, and this trans- 

 formation takes place with great regularity during the latter part of 

 whorl 8. To sum \\p, the table may slightly exaggerate the sharp- 

 ness of the change, but it in no way exaggerates the fact that the 

 end of the cancellated stage occupies in this series of forms a much 

 more definite place in the ontogeny than does its beginning. 



Table II shows that in the Athlda petrosa races of Jackson time the 

 beginning of the cancellated stage is on the whole earlier than in the 

 forms of the Lower Claiborne, In some cases this acceleration is 

 quite marked, as is seen when we compare, for example, the Jackson or 

 Montgomery races with the ^It. Lebanon race of Table I. The Lower 

 Claiborne St. Maurice race of Athleta petrosa. seems to have attained 

 about the same degree of acceleration as the later races of Table II. 

 The Lower Claiborne ^loseley Ferry race, which exhibits the tendencies 

 of the later Jackson time races, has been introduced into Table II as a 

 probable ancestral f(rm. 



In Table III the Lower Claiborne race of Athleta petrosa from St. 

 Maurice and ihe Athleta clayi, also of St. Maurice, are compared. Ath- 

 leta sayana from the later Claiborne beds is shown as a probable 

 descendant of ^4. clayi. 



Taking all three tables into consideration, it is evident that the 

 smooth stage is by far the most variable stage in Athleta petrosa and 

 its derivatives, .4. clayi and A. sayana. Still another remarkable fact 

 is brought out by these tables when we examine the changes of the 

 smooth stage in relation with the changes in the later stages; It is 

 only in Athleta sayana. a form where the smooth stage has been restricted 

 to a little over one whorl, that we find any marked modification of the 

 characters of the spiny stage. Again, it is only in .4. sayana that we 

 find the spiny stage beginning at such an early point in the ontogeny 

 as the sixth whorl. 



In Athleta clayi and .4. sayana the smooth first whorl is much larger 

 than in any of the assemblages of .4. petrosa. The apex of -4. sayana 

 is larger than the apex of A. clayi, and in addition the later stages of 

 A. sayana are markedly different from those of A. petrosa. On the 

 other hand, the later shell characters of .4. clayi are almost identical 




238 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



(except for acceleration) with those of some of the Texas Lower Clai- 

 borne races of A. petrosa. In this particular respect A. clayi more 

 closely resembles all the races of A. petrosa than it does A. sayana. 



Athleta clayi is similar, then, to A. petrosa in its later stages, but similar 

 to A. sayana in its smooth and curved rib stages. ^^ It may be reason- 



Fi 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. .5. 



3. — Apex of Athleta petrosa Con. St. Maurice, Louisiana. Showing the small 

 first whori and the relatively long smooth stage. In whorl 3 the curved ribs 

 are seen passing into the tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. Length 

 about .75 mm. 

 Fig. 4. — Apex of Athleta clayi. St. Maurice, Louisiana. Shows the large and 

 smooth first whorl. The tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage are displayed 

 in whorl 2. Length about .8 mm. 



o. — Apex of Athleta sayana Con. Claiborne, Alabama. Shows the large smooth 

 whorl and the smooth stage which is restricted to a little over one whorl. 

 Li whorl 2 the almost suppressed curved ribs are seen passing into the 

 tubercled ribs of the cancellated stage. Length = 1.8 mm. 



Fig. 



ably regarded as an intermediate between the Athleta petrosa main 

 stock and Athleta sayana. \ 



One more ciuestion is worth considering before we leave the discus- 

 sion of the morphology. Wliat is the meaning of this restriction of the 

 smooth stage to a little over one whorl ? If the size of the apex remained 

 the same it would be best explained as an example of acceleration. 

 The size of the first whorl, however, is not the same as in Athleta 

 petrosa, but is larger in A. clayi and still larger in A. sayana. May not 

 this change then represent only an enlargement of the veliger, rather 

 than a case of true acceleration? The wTiter feels that with present 

 data he is unable to solve this particular part of the problem. Though 



'^ The author realizes perfectly that the proprietj^ of separating .4 . claiji from 

 .4. petrosa may be questioned by some workers. Those who object to his 

 arrangement will probably bring up the frequently cited case of Sturany's Fusus 

 bijrons (Gastropoden des Rothen Meeres). Judging from the figures it would 

 seem, however, that Sturany is dealing with what would be regarded by most 

 sj'stematists as two distinct species. 




1907.] 



XATLRAL SCIKN'CES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 



239 



the cause of this chan<2;e may be unknown the chansje itself is unques- 

 tionable, and in the probable phylogen}- of this particular series of 

 forms it precedes the modification of the later shell stages. 



Probable Phylogenetic Relations. 



The Lower Claiborne races of Athleta petrosa show not a little racial 

 variation especially in the smooth stage. They are nevertheless 

 typical examples of the main stock. The later Claiborne race of 

 Alabama probably ow^es its origin to some such assemblage as the 

 first strain from the Lower Claiborne of Moseley Ferry. The second 

 strain from INIoseley Ferrj^ — that is the one which shows such marked 

 Jackson tendencies — is a probable ancestor which, through acceleration 

 and the multiplication of plaits, passed into the Montgomery and 

 Jackson races of Jackson time. 



Fig. 6. Fig. 7. Fig. S. 



Fig. 6. — Athleta peti-osa Con. St. Maurice, Louisiana. Immature indi\-idual ex- 

 hibiting the sculpture of the cancellated stage. Lengtli = 10 mm. 



Fig. 7. — Athleta clayi. St. Maurice, Louisiana. Immature individual exhibiting 

 the sculpture of the cancellated stage. Length = 12 mm. 



Fig. S. — Athleta sayana Con. Claiborne, Alabama. Mature indi\idual showing 

 in the sculpture of its later whorls marked departures from the A. petroso 

 main stock. The secondary cancellation is shown in the last whorl. Length 

 = 48 mm. 



Athleta clayi is almost identical with the examples of A. petrosa 

 main stock in everything except its smooth stage. In its smooth stage 

 it approaches Athleta sayana of the later Claiborne beds of Alabama. 

 We are reasonably safe in concluding that A. sayana was derived from 

 the A. petrosa main stock through the Lower Claiborne A. clayi. In 




240 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



this case the first change was a modification of the apical characters 

 {A. clayi), and the second change was modification in the featm'es of the 

 spiny stage (.4. say ana). The following table probably comes reason- 

 ably close to the phylogeny of these forms. 



It will be seen that in the above scheme the Claiborne race of Athleta 

 petrosa is placed in a position which indicates a slight divergence from 

 the main stock. This change in its characters is attributed to the 

 local nature of the Claiborne Sands environment.** The Claiborne 

 race of A. petrosa is the type of the species, and this is just one example 

 of w^hat is frecjuently encountered in dealing with large series of races 

 or individuals, namely, that the specific type may not be the most 

 typical expression of the actual specific group. ^'^ 



The races of Athleta petrosa which are displayed in the Lower Clai- 

 borne deposits of Texas and Louisiana appear to constitute a veritable 

 metropolis. In this Lower Claiborne metropolitan assemblage was 

 evolved Athleta clayi. The Claiborne race of A. petrosa and A. soyana 

 of the Alabama Claiborne Sands represent local conditions, and clearly 



" See A. C. Veatcli, Geol. Surv. La., 1902, p. 140. 



'* Prof. Henry S. Williams has observed that "species are often described for 

 the extreme form rather than the central stock." He also lays stress on "the 

 necessity of distinguisliing the real specific group from the species as understood 

 in literature." 




l'.)()7.] XAITKAI, SriKXCES OF PHI LADKI.I'f 1 1 A . 241 



show their oriuiii to ha\'e 1)C(mi among the more generalized forms of 

 the Lower Chiih()rn(\ 



The Jackson and Montgomery races are unquestionably the descend- 

 ants of the Jackson strain in the Lower Claiborne metropolis and are 

 not derived from the Claiborne forms. 



Summary. 



In this study of Athlda petrosa and its allies from the western 

 Gulf region we find the geological series of the races less complete than 

 in the Eocene beds east of the Mississippi River. The Texas Lignitic 

 yields little material, but that little is quite similar to the senile forms 

 of the later Lignitic of Alabama. Texas, however, gives us no such 

 increasingly abnormal series as we find in the Alabama Lignitic. 

 These abnormal forms are considered as derived (1) by migration aritl 

 (2) by senile evolution from a theoretical metropolis situated farther 

 seaward in a more typically marine environment than obtained in the 

 waters of the Lignitic Cnilf. 



With the end of the Lignitic this metropolis is believed to have 

 encroached northward. The Athleta petrosa races of the Texas and 

 Louisiana Lower Claiborne represent this metropolitan assemblage. 

 Among these Lower Claiborne forms we find foreshadowed the Jack- 

 son, IMontgomery and Claiborne races of later time. Li addition 

 Athleta claiji has in this Lower Claiborne diverged from its parent 

 stock, and illustrates one stage of that evolution which finally results 

 in the Claiborne Athleta sayana. The Claiborne forms of Alabama 

 indicate an adjustment to rather local conditions, while the succeeding 

 Jackson is a widespread limestone which bears a clear water facies 

 of the old metropolitan assemblage. 



In dealing with the e\-olution of shell features in fossil gastropods it 

 is necessary to select a group which exhibits change, but at the same 

 time is certainly of one genetic stock. The forms considered in this 

 paper fulfill both of these conditions. No one can doul)t the common 

 origin of the races and species in question, while the morphologic 

 changes are evident. 



It was shown in another paper that tlie Lignitic forms diverged from 

 the main stock by an exaggeration and not by an acceleration of the 

 marks of senility. Their peculiar evolution was attributed to uncon- 

 genial conditions. It was a violent reaction to an unfavorable environ'- 

 ment. The morphologic modifications of the post-Lignitic forms are 

 perhaps still more interesting as casting some light on the laws of 

 gastropodjevolution. Taking the normal species and races of Lower 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^lay, 



Claiborne, Claiborne and Jackson time, we find that on the whole there 

 is much more variation in the smooth stage than an}'T\'here else in the 

 shell. Among the Lower Claiborne races of Athlcta petrosa the only 

 changes worthy of notice are in the length of the smooth stage, while ^4. 

 clayi has departed from .-1. petrosa only by a modification of its apical 

 features. The later shell characters of .4. clayi are almost identical 

 with those of A. petrosa. 



In the Claiborne Sands we have the Claiborne race of Athleta petrosa 

 and A. sayana. The writer suggests that in the first case (.4. petrosa) 

 the local conditions produced a modification in the later stages of a 

 form with a primitive apex — in other words a member of the A. petrosa 

 main stock. In the second case (.4. sayana) it is believed that these 

 similar external conditions acted on a type such as .4. clayi, and that 

 this form with its already' modified apex reacted more readily, so that 

 the characters of its later shell stages departed to a considerable 

 extent from those of .4. petrosa. 



In the more widely extended conditions of Jackson age the apices 

 are not greatly changed in form, but the smooth stage is simply shorter. 

 In other words the curved rib stage and the beginning of the cancel- 

 lated stage are more accelerated. 



From the data furnished by Athleta clayi and .4. sayana it appears 

 that in the normal races of Athleta petrosa and its normal allies marked 

 modifications of the later shell stages are preceded liy marked modifica- 

 tion in the apex. In addition we can say for this restricted normal 

 group at least that the apex is not only a variable feature, but the most 

 variable feature which the shells furnish." 



1^ Tlie author is thoroughly convinced that the features of the apex must be 

 used in classification wth great caution. For this group at least Grabau's 

 generalization does not hold. He says: "The smaller the taxonomic group tlie 

 more nearly identical must be the earlier stages, since in a small group the mem- 

 bers have not become widelv separated from their common ancestor." (.4;/;. 

 Nat., Vol. 36, p. 922.) 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN WHELKS FROM NORTHERN JAPAN AND THE 



KURIL ISLANDS, 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



Volutopsius hirasei n. sp. (PI. XIX, fig. 2.) 



The shell is fusiform, thick and solid, glossy where unworn, livid 

 under a very thin, smooth transparent cuticle, which however is largely 

 worn from the type. "Whorls 6^, strongly convex, separated by deep 

 sutures. Surface sculptured with low spiral threads, rather close and 

 fine below the suture, widely spaced in the median part of the last whorl, 

 becoming close on the base, and coarser on the anterior narrow portion. 

 The aperture is livid brownish within, outer hp expanded, white, thin 

 at the edge. The columella is weakly sinuous, covered with a white 

 callus. There is also a small but rather thick callus near the posterior 

 angle of the aperture. A thin transparent callus spreads forward on 

 the parietal wall. 



Length 72, diam. 34 mm. ; length of aperture 42 mm. 



Kisennuma, Rikuzen. Tj^^e No. 93,443, A. N. S. P., from Xo. 1,312 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is related to V. regularis Dall, but differs by the longer 

 basal canal and the sculptured surface, V. regularis being smooth. 



Beringius polynematicus n. s:p. (PI. XIX, fig. 1.) 



Shell closely resembhng B. frielei Dall,^ large, thin, dirty white under 

 a strong brown cuticle, mainly worn from the type, a "dead" shell. 

 Sculpture of shallow spiral grooves, about 2 mm. apart 

 on the last whorl, not much more than half that on the 

 penultimate; the spaces between these grooves slightly 

 convex, and sculptured with five or six irregular spiral 

 threads on the last whorl (fig. 1), about four on the 

 penultimate. Six and one-half strongly convex whorls 

 remain, the apex being defective. The aperture is wide, the outer lip 

 smooth within, thin; basal canal quite short. Columella very weakly 

 sigmoid ; callus on the inner margin thin, not spreading forward. 



Length 140, diam. 59 mm. ; length of the aperture 64 mm. 



Kisennuma, Rikuzen. Type Xo. 93,444, A. X. S. P., from Xo. 1,760 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1894, p. 711, pi. 27, fig. 8, from Bering Sea. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Only two specimens of this fine species were found. It is closely 

 related to B. fnelei Dall, but differs in the finer sculpture, that species 

 having spiral threads in pairs, while in this there are invariably several 

 threads grouped on the convex intervals between deeper spiral grooves . 



Beringius schantaricus (Midd.) is a smaller species, 72-77 mm. long, 

 with stronger external sculpture and spiral sulci within the mouth. 



B. turtoni (Bean) is a species with internally smooth outer lip, but 

 it differs notably in the shape of the spire. 



The genus Beringius has also been known as Jumala and Ukko. both 

 later generic terms. 



Bucoinum inolytum Pilsbry. (PI. XX, fig. i.) 



Buccinum inclitum. Pils., Nautilus, X^^III, p. 87. 



A species of the B. glaciale group, of tiu-rite-conic shape, rather 

 solid and heavy, composed of about 8^ convex and somewhat angular 

 whorls. The shell is white, with a few small brown spots, under a 

 very thin, pale buff cuticle. The apex has been lost, and the first two 

 whorls are somewhat worn. The next two whorls have a strong, 

 cord-like keel below the middle, a smaller spiral rib below it, while 

 above it the surface is flattened and sloping, the whole covered with 

 fine spiral threads. Another spiral rib then gradually arises above the 

 peripheral one, so that all the rest of the whorls of the spire have three 

 strong rounded, cord -like spirals, all rendered irregularly nodose by 

 rather close longitudinal waves which radiate from the suture. The 

 last whorl is very convex, with a group of four strongly raised rounded 

 spiral ribs, two below and one above the slightly larger peripheral 

 spiral. The rest of the surface and the intervals between the ribs 

 are sculptured with much smaller spiral cords; and there is also a 

 very minute sculpture of fine spiral threads over the ribs and cords. 

 The rather small aperture is white in the throat, becoming ochre-tinted 

 near the lip and on the columella. The outer lip is slightly expanded 

 and sulcate within, and it is slightly retracted above. The columella 

 is weakly biplicate. 



Length 82, diam. 47 mm. ; length of the aperture 40 mm. 



Etoro, Chishima. Type No. 88,768, A. N. S. P., from No. 1.704 of 

 Mr, Hirase's collection. 



This noble Buccinum has some resemblance to B. carinatum Dkr. 

 and B. verkriizeni Kob., but differs from both in its more numerous, 

 closer and more emphatic spiral ribs. In the original notice in the 

 Nautilus the name was printed "inclitum" by oversight. 



Buccinum unicum Pils. (PI. XX, fig. 7.) 



Described in these Proceedings for 1905. p. 102. This peculiar form 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHrA. 245 



from Kisenmima, Rikuzen, is related to B. viridum Dall.^ from off 

 California in deep water, and also known from Bering Sea, but it 

 differs from that in the minute sculpture. It is also a somewhat 

 larger and less inflated shell than B. viridum. 



Buccinum middendorffi Verkruzen. (PI. XIX, fig. 4; pi. XX, fig. 4.) 



B. middcndoriji Verk., Jahrb. Mai. Ges., IX, p. 213, 1882. Kobclt, Concliyl. 

 Cab., Buccinum, p. 76, pi. 89, fig. 2. 



A specimen from Akkeshi, Kushiro, is figured. It measures, length 

 69, diameter 44 mm. The spire is dull reddish brown, fading on the 

 last whorl to rusty cream color. The aperture is brownish yellow 

 within, becoming dull reddish deep in the throat, the columella and 

 inner lip largely piu-e white, but with some j'cllow stain in the middle. 

 The sculpture of coarse waves reminds one of B. undatum. On the 

 last whorl there is a spiral sculpture of unevenly spaced low spiral 

 threads and shallow grooves at intervals, the whole covered with very 

 close, fine, decurrent waxy spiral lines. On the penultimate whorl the 

 spaced grooves run in pairs, and the finer sculpture is less distinct. 

 The next earlier whorl has low spiral cords, and the preceding two have 

 a sculpture of about 6 spiral cords running over slightly arcuate longi- 

 tudinal rounded ribs, somewhat as in a Latirus. The apex is worn. 



While this example has much resemblance to Kobelt's figures of 

 B. Uschkeanum Lob., yet it seems referable to B. middendorfji. 



Buccinum mirandum SmiUi. (PL XIX, fig. 5 : pi. XX, fig. 5.) 



The figures represent an example agreeing well with Kobelt's figure 

 of the type, except that the longitudinal waves are almost obsolete. It 

 is white with a creamy or brownish tint, and somewhat profusely 

 maculate wdth rusty brown. The last whorl has 5 spiral ribs, the 

 upper one weakly nodose, the others hardly perceptibly so. It is 

 strongly puckered below the suture. The surface is finely and very 

 closely engraved with minute, clear-cut spiral lines mingled with 

 coarser ones. Length 45.5, diameter 28.5 mm. 



Another example (pi. 19, fig. 3; pi. 20, fig. 3), from Akkeshi, Kushiro, 

 has the primary spiral ribs much smaller, the secondary threads larger, 

 the same minute engraved lines being present. The whorls are also 

 obliquely waved above the periphery. The lip is white, but the 

 interior of the aperture is brownish ochraceous. Length 48, diameter 

 30 mm. 



• Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XII, 1889, p. 320, pi. 6, fig. 9. ALso Keep, West 

 Ainericnn Shells, p. 172,'fig. 165. 

 17 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Buccinum mirandum var. schrenkii Verkruzen. (PI. XIX, fi.^'. 6: pi. XX, fig. 6.) 



The example figured occurred with B. mirandum (fig. 5). It differs 

 from that chiefly by the total absence of spiral ribs. The minute 

 sculpture is the same. The whole shell is dull reddish brown, the 

 thick lip and the columella white. The surface is puckered below the 

 suture as in B. mirandum. Length 48, diameter 30 mm. 

 Purpura freycineti alabaster n. subsp. (PI. XX, fig. 2.) 



The shell is large, thick and heavy, dull ashy white externally. The 

 spire is very short, the last whorl ample. Sculpture of coarse, wide- 

 spaced ribs, the largest at the shoulder, regularly diminishing down- 

 wards, about 8 on the last whorl, one on the penultimate, two on the 

 preceding whorls of the spire. There are also some coarse spaced ridges 

 along growth-lines. The aperture is pure white, the bevelled lip a little 

 grooved at the positions of the external ribs. The wide columella is 

 slightly flattened. Siphonal fasciole prominent. Length 56, diameter 

 38 mm. Kunajiri (or Kunashiri), Chishima. Type No. 88,304, A. N. 

 tS. P., from No. 1,591 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This large and ponderous Purpura is very imlike the typical P. 

 freycineti, which is a common species of Kamchatka and the Kuril 

 Islands; but it has some resemblance to certain forms of that species 

 figured by Lischke (J. M. C, pi. 4, figs. 16-19), and I have thought it 

 I)est to subordinate alabaster to the common form of the region until 

 extensive collections can demonstrate its true status. 



Explanation of Plates XIX and XX, 



Plate XIX.- — Fig. 1. — Beringius polynematicus n. sp. Type. 

 Fig. 2. — Volutopsius hirasei n. sp. Tj-pe. 



Fig. 3. — Buccinum mirandum Smith. Variety from Akkeslii, Kushiro. 

 Fig. 4. — Buccinum middendorffi Verkruzen. Variety, " " 



Fig. 5. — Buccinum. miranduvi Smith. Strongly ribbed form. 

 Fig. 6. — Buccinum mirandum, schrenkii Verkruzen. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 1. — Buccinum inclytum Pilsbry. Tj^e. 

 Fig. 2. — Purpura freycineti alabaster n. subsp. Type. 

 Fig. 3. — Buccinum mirandum. Akkeshi, Kushiro. 

 Fig. 4. — Buccinum middendorffi Verk. Variety. 

 Fig. 5. — Buccinum mirandum Smith. Strongly ribbed form. 

 Fig. 6. — Buccinum unicum Pilsbry. Type. 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



NOTES ON THE LEAF HAIRS OF LESQUEKELLA.' 

 BY E. G. YAXATTA. 



The hairs of the leaves of Lfsgucrc//tt are usually described in botani- 

 cal works as "stellate." So far as I know, it has not been noticed that 

 the forms vary in different species. These differences may become an 

 important feature for the determination of the species. The ninnbcr 

 of rays of these stellate hairs is variable, but the form of the rays and 

 their manner of branching are more constant, although some hairs of 

 the compound forms often have one or more raj's simi)le. 



By the shape of the hairs the species of Lesquerclla which 1 have 

 examined fall into five groups as follows: 



Group I. — Hair a simple few-rayed star. 



PL XXI, fig. 1 X 60. L. argyrca Gray. Flora, Texas, Exsic. 329, 

 Fasc. Ill, leg. T. Lindhcimer, 1S46. 



Group II. Hair a few-rayed star, each ray normally bifid. 



PI. XXI, fig. 3 X 60. L. argentea Wats. Laramie University Campus, 



Wyoming. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. No. 523,700. 

 Fig. 2 X 60. L. globosa Dr. Rising Sun Bluff, Cimiberland River, 



fourteen miles below Nashville, Tenn. 

 Fig. 4 X 60. L. gracilis Hook. Mesa near Tucson, Arizona. E. 



Pringle, April 12. (B. Smith.) 

 Fig. 5 X 60. L. hidoviciana Wats. Laramie, Wyoming; Flora, 



Wyoming, 190. C. Nelson, 1894. 

 Fig. 8 X 60. L. montona Gray. Table Mountain. Wyoming; Flora, 

 • Wyoming, 88. A. Nelson. 

 Fig. 9 X 60. L. recurvata Engl. Kerrville, Texas. A. Heller, 



1657. 



Group III. Each ray of star normally twice bifid. 

 PI. XXL fig. 10 X 60. L. alpina Wats. New Mexico. A. Fendler, 



1847. 

 Fig. 13 X 60. L. arctica Wats. Itibla, Whale Sound, McCormiek 



Bay, Greenland. A. Heilprin, 1891. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Fig. 11 X 100 and fig. 17 X 60. L. didymocar pa B-ook. Wagon 



Wlieel Gap, Colorado. B. Smith, July 16, 1882. 

 Fig. 15 X 60. L. douglasi Wats. Klickitat County, Washington. 



B. Smith (Sukodorf!). 

 Fig. 6 X 60. L. lindheimeri Berl. Texas and Mexico. Herb. 



Berl., 1439 (Short Herb). 

 Fig. 7 X 60 and fig. 14 X 100. L. nuttalli Gr. Arkansas, Nuttall. 

 Fig. 18 X 60. L. occidentalis Wats. White Bluff, Columbia River, 



Washington, 635, Brandiger, 1883. 



Group IV. Hair a many-rayed star, often with a web between the 

 rays. 



PI. XXI, fig. 12 X 60. L. berlandieri Gray. Circa Matamoras, Texas. 



Herb. Borland, Texas and Mexico, April, 1831 (Short Herb). 

 Fig. 16 X 60. L. jendleri Gr. Sierra Madre, forty miles south of 



Saltillo, Mexico. Dr. E. Palmer. 

 Fig. 19 X 60 and fig. 20 X 100. L. lepidata Rose. Near Tula, 



6,800 feet, Mexico. C. Pringle, 6,899. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. No. 



506,384. 

 Fig. 22 X 60. L. purpurea Gray. Santa Catalina Mountains, 



Arizona. C. Pringle, 1883. 

 Fig. 23 X 100 and "fig. 25 X 60. L. [schaffneri Wats. San Luis 



Potosi, Mexico. Ex. Herb. Gray. 

 Fig. 21 X 60 and fig. 26 X 60. L. stenophyUa Gr. (humilis). Pecos, 



Texas. C. Wright, 1881. No. 852. 

 Fig. 24 X 60. L. StenophyUa Grsiy {proccra). Turkey Creek, Texas. 



850. C. Wright. 



Group V. Hair a few-rayed star, which looks as if one ray was 

 omitted. 



PI. XXI, Fig. 27 X 60. L. densiflora Gray. Flora. Texas. 



Exsic. 328, Fasc. III. F. Lindheimer, 1846 (Short Herb). 

 Fig. 28 X 60. L. grandiflora Hk. Victoria, Texas, Flora. Texas, 



Exsic. Dr. Engelmann, 1846. 

 Fig. 24 X 60. L. engelmanni Gr. Texas. Fendler, 1846. 



All the specimens figured are mounted in Canada balsam in the 

 herbarimii of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 249 



NOTES ON SERRANID-E. 

 BY HENRY AV. FOWLER, 



The material on which this paper is based is all contained in the 

 collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



PERCICHTHYIN.E. 

 Percichthys melanops Girard. 



No. 22,892, A. N. S. P. Cotype. 



Perciohthys trucha (Valenciennes). 



Argentina. Recently reported by Drs. Evermann and Kendall. 



PARALABRACIN.E. 



Maxillary with a supplemental bone. Tongue smooth. Gill- 

 rakers long and slender. Scales verj^ small. Dorsals 2, connected at 

 base, XI-XIII, I-II, 12-14. Anal spines III, well developed. Ven- 

 trals inserted behind bases of pectorals. 



The only genus examined seems to be Percalahrax Schlegel, Fauna 

 Japonica, Poiss., I, 1842, p. 2 (type Labrax japonicus Cuvier, only 

 species), which has priority over Lateolahrax Bleeker, Verh. Batav. 

 Gemot. (Nalez. Ich. Jap.), XXVI, 1854, pp. 4, 53 (type Labrax japoni- 

 cus Cuvier, only species). 

 Percalabrax japonicus (Cuvier). 



Tsuruga, Japan (D. S. Jordan and J. 0. Snyder). 



MORONIN/E. 



Boocus chrysops (Rafinosque). 



Southern Illinois (R. Kennicott). 

 Rocous lineatus (Bloch). 



Trenton, N. J.; Sing Sing, N. Y. (S. F. Baird); Chestertown, Md. 

 (E. G. Vanatta) ; Connecticut River (Smiths. Inst.) ; North Carolina? 

 (E. D. Cope). 



Labrax labrax (Linnaeus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Labrax Klein, in Walbaum, Pd. Arted. Gen. Pise, 1792, p. 584 (type 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ June , 



Perca lahrax Linnaeus, understood by tautonomy) has priority over 

 Dicentrarchus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1860, pp. 109, 111 

 (type Perca elongata Geoff roy St. Hilaire = Perca lahrax Linnaeus 

 specified). 



CHRYSOPERCA subgen. nov. 

 Type Morone interrupta Gill. 



Dorsal fins slightly connected, spines robust and longest somewhat 

 more than half of head. Color brassy-yellow with about 7 distinct 

 longitudinal lines interrupted posteriorly. 



Related to subgenus Morone Mitchill, which has shorter fins well 

 connected, spines moderate and shorter, and coloration more silvery. 



{^Xpuao^j gold; T^ipy-ii, perch.) 

 Morone interrupta Gill. 



Two examples, probably cot5'^pes(?), from the Smiths. Inst. Both 

 would agree wuth Dr. Gill's statement concerning the anal spines, the 

 second of which is about equal to the third. 



Wabash River, Indiana (E. D. Cope). 



Morone amerioana (Gmelin). 



Newport, R. I. (Dr. W. Gibson) ; Bayport, Fla. (E. D. Cope); Mount 

 Desert, Me. (Dr. H. C. Chapman); Boston Harbor, Mass. (Dr. J. H. 

 Slack); Potomac River (Smiths. Inst.); New York Harbor (T. Norris). 



LIOPROPOMIN.E. 

 Labraoopsis japonicus Steindachner. 



Yokohama, Japan (D. S. Jordan and J. 0. Snjder). 



CENTROGENIIX.E. 

 To replace Myriodontinoe, Myriodon preoccupied. 

 Centrogenys vaigiensis (Quoy>iid Gaimard). 

 Singapore, Malacca (Dr. J. B. McCartee). 



POLYPRIONIN.E. 



Stereolepis gigas Ayres. Fig. 1. 



Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., II, 1858, p. 28. ? Type No. 32,753, A. N. S. P. 

 Bay of San Francisco. 



Head 3^; depth 3J;D. XI, 9; P. 17; scales in lateral line to base of 

 caudal about 77? (squamation damaged) ; about 120? scales in a lateral 

 series to base of caudal along lateral line above; about 16? scales be- 

 tween origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line; about 27? scales in a 

 vertical series between origin of anal and lateral line; wndth of head 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA, 



251 



nl)()ut If ill its length; snout nearly 3; eye about 9; maxillary 2^; 

 interorbital space 3^; second dorsal spine 6|; third dorsal ray 3; third 

 anal spine 4; second anal ray 3^; upper caudal lobe 1^; least depth of 

 caudal peduncle 3f ; pectoral 2; ventral 2f . A slight median predorsal 

 keel. Snout about half as long as wide. Eye a little longer than deep, 

 and placed near first third in head. Upper jaw slightly protruding. 

 Lips thick. Distal expansion of maxillary about half of orbit. Nos- 

 trils close together, similar. Interorbital space broad and somewhat 

 convex. Edges of bones on head entire. About 13 rows of scales on 

 cheek. Lateral line on 1 or more alternate scales in its course, concur- 

 rent with dorsal profile, and also extending out on base of caudal. 







'%. 





lUXSii^!^ 



Fig. 1. — Stereolepis gigas Ayres. (Cbtype?) 



Spinous dorsal inserted a little behind origin of ventral. Rayed dorsal 

 begins well in front of anal or much nearer origin of pectoral than 

 base of caudal. Spinous anal inserted about opposite base of third 

 dorsal ray, spines slender and second longest. Caudal slightly 

 marginate. Pectoral reaches about half way to origin of rayed dor- 

 sal. Ventral reaches -^ of space to anal. Color of dried skin more or 

 less uniform brownish. Length 6 feet 2 inches. 



In the original account 2 examples are mentioned, one taken in 1857, 

 which measured 5 feet 8 inches, and the other in 1859, which was 7 feet 

 long. Allowing for shrinkage in the above example it is more likely 

 the latter. This was stated to have weighed 360 pounds. A}Tes gives 

 D. IX, A. Ill, 8, P. 19, and other discrepancies, which may possibly 

 be explained by the preparation of the specimen as a dried skin, typo- 

 graphical errors, etc.? 



Polyprion americanum (Schneider). 

 Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



SERRANIN.E. 

 To replace Epinephelinoe. 

 Fetrometopon cruentatum (Lac^pJ^de). 



Viequas, Porto Rico (U. S. F. C). 



Fetrometopon cruentatum coronatum (Valenciennes). 



New Providence, Bahamas (Dr. H. C. Wood). 



Cephalopholis argus Schneider. 



Recorded by me as Bodianus guttatus in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1899, p. 485, from Thornton Islands (C. D. Voy). 

 Apia, Samoan Islands (D. S. Jordan). 



Cephalopholis fulvus (Linnceus). 



New Providence, Bahamas (Dr. H. C. Wood) ; San Domingo, West 

 Indies (Prof. W. M. Gabb); Bermuda Islands (Prof. A. Heilprin). 



Cephalopholis fulvus ouatalibi (Valenciennes). 



New Providence, Bahamas (E. Tatnall, Dr. H. C. Wood); San 

 Domingo (Prof. W. M. Gabb), St. Croix (Capt. T. Davidson, Dr. R. E. 

 Griffith) and St. Kitts (B. H. Lightfoot); Bermuda Islands (Prof. A. 

 Heilprin). 



The Sumatran species I recorded in 1904 under Bodianus should now 

 stand as Cephalopholis aurantius indelehiUs, C. miniatus and C. rogaa. 



Serranus alexandrinus Valenciennes. 



Beirut, Syria. 



Serranus Cuvier, Regne Animal, II, 1817, p. 276 (type Perca gigas 

 Briinnich first species = Labrus guaza Linnaeus), is the first name 

 available for the fishes of this genus, as the first species under Epine- 

 phelus Bloch, and therefore its type, is an Alphestes. Daba Forskal, 

 Descript. Animal., 1775, p. 44 (type Perca areolata Forskal understood 

 from the Arabic vernacular) is uncertain. 



Serranus maoulosus Valenciennes. 



New Providence, Bahamas (Dr. H. C. Wood) ; San Domingo (Prof. 

 W. M. Gabb) ; St. Martin's (Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma) ; St. Thomas 

 (Henry Warrington) ; St. Kitts (B. H. Lightfoot). 

 Serranus flavolimbatus (Poey). 



San Domingo (Prof. W. M. Gabb). 



Serranus niveatus Valenciennes. 



Newport, R. I. (Samuel Powell); Katama Bay, Martha's Vineyard. 

 Mass. (Dr. H. M. Smith). 



Serranus quernus (Scale). 



Honolulu, H. I. (Dr. T. D. Wood). 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIlLADELrillA. 253 



Serranus guaza (Linna>us). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.); Beirut, Syria. 



Serranus guaza mentzelii (Valenciennes). 



Epincphclus bracfn/soma Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIV, 

 1871, p. 4GG. type, No. 13,372, A. N. 8. P. Rio Janeiro, Brazil. Dr. 

 W. S. W. lluscheiibergcr. 



Head 2\; depth 2y\; scales 103 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 

 about 10 more out on latter; tubes about 64 in lateral line to base of 

 caudal, and 8 more on latter; 15 scales in a vertical series between 

 origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line; 22 scales in a vertical series 

 between origin of spinous anal and lateral line ; width of head 2^ in its 

 length; fourth dorsal spine 2i; eleventh dorsal ray 2^; second anal 

 spine 3^; fifth anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; caudal 

 If; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|; snout 4f in head measured from tip of 

 snout; eye 5; maxillary 2j\; interorbital space 7^. Body oblong, 

 compressed. Head elongate, profiles similar. Snout a little broader 

 than long. Eye a little longer than deep, high and near first third 

 of head. Mouth inclined, and mandible protruding. Maxillary 

 reaches nearly opposite posterior margin of eye, and its expansion 

 about f of same. Teeth in bands in jaws, sharp, conic and canines 

 ^~i- Inner mandibular series and upper inner teeth depressible. 

 Fine teeth on vomer and palatines. Tongue long and free. Nostrils 

 close, Interorbital space a little convex, flattened medianly. Pre- 

 opercular margin finely serrated posteriorly, serrae increasing in size 

 toward angle. Median opercular spine largest, most posterior, and 

 nearer lower. Gill-rakers vi, 2 + 12, iii, and a trifle less than fila- 

 ments, which are 7- of eye. About 32 irregular series of scales on 

 cheek. Tubes in lateral line simple. Spinous dorsal inserted about 

 midway between origin of rayed dorsal and tip of snout. Rayed 

 dorsal inserted about midway between base jof third dorsal spine and 

 base of caudal, posterior rays longest, and edge of fin rounded. Spin- 

 ous anal inserted about midway between origin of ventral and base of 

 caudal, second spine robust and longest, and third slender and but 

 little shorter. Rayed anal rounded, and its base about If in its 

 lieight. Vent near last fifth in space between ventral and anal. 

 Color in alcohol more or less uniform brown generally. Margins of 

 fins more or less dusky-brown, and this color sharpl}"- contrasting on 

 rayed dorsal and anal with paler basal color. On diLsky area of caudal 

 distally 2 pale or whitish spots about median rays. Pectorals brownish 

 Avith narrow pale edge. Side of body with obscure whitish flakes of 

 various sizes. A dusky streak back from end of maxillary above, and 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



below this a whitish streak. Iris warm brownish. Length 7| inches. 

 Type. 



I retain Serrcuius mentzelii Valenciennes for this fish, as I have not 

 compared any examples of corresponding size of Lahrus guaza Linnaeus. 

 Cope states the length of his type as 8 inches. 



Serranus labriformis Jenyns. 



Epinephelus ordinatus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Pliila., (2) XIV, 

 1871, p. 466. Type, No. 13,457, A. N. S. P. Panama. Dr. W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger. 



Head 2\; depth Sy^; scales about 100? (squamation injured) counted 

 along lateral line to base of caudal, and about 10 more somewhat 

 enlarged on latter; about 46 pores in lateral line to base of caudal; 

 about 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and 

 lateral line; 33 scales in a vertical series between origin of spinous 

 anal and lateral line; width of head 2f in its length; third dorsal spine 

 3f ; sixth dorsal ray 2\; second anal spine 3; third anal ray 2; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 3f; caudal If; pectoral If; ventral 2^; 

 snout 5 in head measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 4^; maxillary 2A; 

 interorbital space 9§. Body elongate. Head compressed. Length 

 of snout about 1^ in its width. Eye a little longer than deep and 

 placed about first third in its length. Mandil)le protruding a little 

 in front. Maxillary reaching a trifle behind posterior margin of eye, 

 with narrow supplemental bone, and its distal expansion half of eye 

 horizontally. Narrow bands of teeth in jaws, inner in front of upper 

 a little elongate and depressible. An inner series of rather enlarged 

 depressible mandibular teeth, and at first teeth irregularly triserial and 

 then becoming biserial on posterior portions of rami. Canines small, 

 ^,, a little curved. Small vomerine and palatine teeth. Tongue 

 slender, smooth and free. Nostrils close. Lower preopercular margin 

 entire. Interorbital space narrow, flat, and slightly depressed in 

 front. Median opercular spine most posterior, uppermost anterior, 

 and median about midway between upper and lower. Gill-rakers 

 VI, 2 + 11, VI, larger than filaments and about 2^ in eye. Scales 

 finely ctenoid, and about 24 series on cheek. Maxillary naked. Tubes 

 in lateral line simple. Spinous dorsal inserted nearly midway between 

 tip of mandible and origin of rayed dorsal, and spines graduated down 

 from third and fourth, which are subequally longest. Rayed dorsal 

 inserted a little nearer base of caudal than origin of spinous fin, rounded. 

 Spinous anal inserted nearer origin of pectoral than base of caudal, 

 second spine longest, and third subequal. Color in alcohol dull pale 

 l^rown, head and trunk blotched ^^•ith a number of scattered or grayish- 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PIIILADKLPHIA. 255 



white Hakes of uneven size, thouoh all smaller than ]>iipil and with a 

 number of obscure deep brownish mottlings scattered about between. 

 Lower surface of head and body scarcely paler f)r more grayish. Fins 

 pale brownish like general body-color, margin of spinous dorsal a little 

 deeper brown, and also its base with deep shades about third to seventh 

 and tenth to third dorsal rays. Outer or submarginal portions of other 

 fins deeper brownish than otherwise. Edges of rayed fins narrowly 

 whitish. Pectoral and ventral dusky-brownish, pale basally. A large 

 dusky saddle on caudal peduncle above. Iris slaty-gray. Length 5h 

 inches. Type of Epincphelus ordinatus Cope. 



Tower Island, Galapagos (R. E. Snodgrass and E. C. Heller). 

 Serranus striatus i isloch). 



New Providence, Bahamas (Dr. H. C. Wood); St. Croix (Dr. R. E. 

 Griffith) ; no locality (Dr. A. L. Heermann) ; San Antonio Bridge and 

 Puerto Real, Porto Rico (U. S. F. C). 



Serranus morio Valenciennes. 



Key West, Fla. (Dr. ^Murray). 

 Serranus merra (Bloch). 



Thornton Island, south Pacific Ocean (C. D. A'oy); Apia, Samoa 

 (D. S. .Jordan). 



fi-J'':?- 







?i^M 





Fig. 2. — Serranus phccostigmcEus Fowler. (Type.) 



Serranus pliaeostigmaeus .«p. nov. Fig. 2. 



E/)iiieiili('his luscoguttatiis Fowler, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 1900, p. .502. 

 Sandwich Islands. Dr. .1. K. Townsend. (Probably not of Forskal.) 



Head 2 ^ ; depth 3^ ; D. XI, IG, i ; A. I II, 8, i ; P. 18 ; V. 1, 5 ; scales about 

 102 in lateral line to base of caudal, and 6 more on latter; tubes 61 in 

 lateral line to base of caudal, and about 5 more on latter: 14 scales in a 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuilC, 



vertical series between origin of rayed dorsal and lateral line ; about 20 

 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line in a vertical 

 series; width of head 2 in its length; depth of head If; mandible 1| 



a ■ 



6 » 



fourth dorsal spine 3^; eleventh dorsal ray 2f ; third anal spine 3/o; 

 seventh anal ray 3^; caudal If; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; 

 pectoral If; ventral 2; ventral spine 3^; snout 5^ in head measured 

 from tip of snout; eye 7; maxillary 2yo ; interorbital space 5. 



Body robust, elongate, compressed, profiles rather evenly and 

 similarly convex, so that contour is somewhat fusiform, and greatest 

 depth at base of fifth dorsal spine. Edges of body rounded, chest 

 broadly so. Caudal peduncle compressed, and least depth about f 

 its length. 



Head large, robust, slightly compressed, and with greatest width 

 swollen below. Upper profile more inclined than lower, nearh^ 

 straight, and but slightly concave over eye. Snout convex, its length 

 about half its width. Eye a little longer than deep, rounded, high, 

 and near first quarter in length of head. Mouth inclined obliquely, 

 and broad mandible protruding a little in front. Lips a little broad 

 and fleshy. Maxillary well exposed, reaching about f an eye- 

 diameter beyond eye, and its expansion about I of horizontal orbital 

 diameter. Bands of rather small fine teeth in jaws, a few canine-like 

 in front of upper and along rami of lower posteriorly. Rami of 

 mandible not elevated inside of mouth. Bands of minute teeth on 

 vomer and palatines. Buccal membranes broad in mouth. Tongue 

 broad, rounded and a little free. Nostrils close together on side of 

 snout above front of eye, anterior with a tube ending in a cutaneous 

 flap posteriorly. Posterior nostril midway between anterior and 

 upper front of eye. Preorbital narrow, its width about f horizontal 

 orbital diameter. Preopercular margin convex posteriorly, that 

 edge finely serrated, and about 3 large denticles at corner. Opercular 

 spines 3, median largest and closer to lower, also a little posterior. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite front of orbit, and upper- 

 most margin horizontal. Gill-rakers vi, 3 + 8, vi, clavate, and longest 

 half of orbit or same of gill-filaments. Gill-filaments | of horizontal 

 orbital diameter. Pseudobranchiffi about f of filaments. Isthmus 

 broad, bevelled in front, and broadly keeled posteriorly. 



Scales all rather finely ctenoid, largest on opercle and middle of 

 side, and very small and reduced along edges of body, especially pre- 

 dorsal region and chest. On predorsal region, and cheek above, 

 scales more or less truncate. Scales disposed over trunk in more or 

 less longitudinal series, and somewhat inclined posteriorly, also 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



extending over lateral line. ]\Iinutc scales on bases of all fins. Axil of 

 pectoral with a pit, covered by a scaly flap above. About 28 scales on 

 cheek. Head almost scaly everywhere, except on lips and maxillary. 

 Lateral line of slitrhtly arborescent tubes, and concurrent with dorsal 

 profile till out in middle of base of caudal. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between front of eye and 

 origin of rayed dorsal, graduated from fourth spine which is longest, 

 and margin of fin deeply notched, so that cutaneous points occur 

 behind tip of each spine. Rayed dorsal inserted midway between 

 origin of spinous fin and base of caudal, fin rounded, and posterior 

 rays a little longest. Spinous anal inserted nearer base of caudal than 

 origin of ventral, and graduated to third spine which is longest. Rayed 

 anal with posterior rays longest, and fin rounded. Caudal rounded. 

 Pectoral broadly expanded, inserted before dorsal, and reaching f of 

 space to spinous anal. Ventral inserted just behind base of pectoral, 

 and reaching 4 of space to spinous anal, but not so far posteriorly as 

 tip of pectoral, ^'entral spine i length of fin. Vent midway between 

 tip of ventral and origin of spinous anal. 



Color in alcohol dull drab generally, lower or under regions not paler. 

 Head and body with obscure spots almost everywhere of vandyke- 

 brown, not sharply defined but most intense in color in center, about 

 size of pupil, and disposed over body and all fins alike. Fins brownish 

 like general body-color, not especially pale marginally but with deepest 

 color basally. Iris dull brownish with a narrow golden circle around 

 pupil. 



Length 8h inches. 



Type, No. 13,463, A. N. S. P. Hawaiian Islands. Dr. J. K. Town- 

 send. 



This fish was originally identified by me with Perca summana var. 

 juscoguttata Forskal, a species to which it is certainly closely related. 

 Serranus (Epinephelus) dictyophorus Steindachner, Sitz. Ak. Wiss. 

 Wien, C, ii, 1893, p. 219, from Honolulu, differs apparently, according 

 to Dr. Steindachner's excellent description, in the deep body, narrower 

 interorbital space, other proportions, etc. 



{'Potdg, brown; (rriyij-'i^ spot.) 



Other species examined are Serranus heniochus, S. maculatus, S. 

 sexfasciatus, S. megachir, S. dermochirus , S. Jwrridus and *S. lanceolatus, 

 all from Sumatra, and which I formerly included under Epinephelus. 



Garrupa nigrita (Holbrook). 



t<erranus nigrilus Holbrook, Ichth. S. Car., IS.oo, p. 178, PI. 2.5, fig. 2. Type 

 No. 13,468, A. X. S. P. Charleston, S. C. Dr. .J. E. IIoll)rook. 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JllUC, 



This example is 16 inches long (caudal damaged), though Holbrook 

 states that the total length is 2 feet. However, the original label 

 indicates this as the type, together with the locality as Charleston. 

 Holbrook also says that the caudal was somewhat mutilated in the 

 only example he ever saw. 



Color in alcohol of young deep chocolate-brown generally. Dorsals, 

 anals and ventrals inclining to slaty or livid blackish. Margin of 

 rayed dorsal broadly, and rayed anal more narrowly, becoming pale 

 brownish and then whitish along edges. Caudal and pectoral white, 

 latter chocolate-brown at base. Lower surface of head and jaws 

 tinted with dull bro^Mi. Iris slaty. Length 3^ inches. Katama 

 Bay, Martha's Vineyard, Mass. Dr. H. M. Smith. 

 Epinephelus chloropterus (Cm-ier). 



St. Martin's (Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma). 



Prof. Peters long ago examined Bloch's type of Epinephelus afer and 

 found it identical with Plectropoma chloropterum. Provisionally, as 

 Bloch's fish is said to have come from West Africa, I allow Cu^'ier's 

 name to stand for the American fish. 



Epinephelus Bloch, Nat. Ausl. Fisch., VH (X), 1793, p. 11 (type 

 Epinephelus afer Bloch first species) has priority over ^/p/;(\s/r6t Schnei- 

 der, Syst. Ich. Bloch, 1801, p. 236 (type Epinephelus afer Bloch first 

 species) . 

 Epinephelus lightfooti ?p. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 2^; depth 2|; D. XI, 18, i; A. Ill, 9, i; P. i, 16; V. 1,5; scales 

 about 70 in lateral line to base of caudal, and about 10 more rather 

 enlarged on latter; 12 scales in a vertical series between origin of 

 rayed dorsal and lateral line; 26 scales in a vertical series between 

 origin of spinous anal and lateral line; pores about 61 in lateral line to 

 base of caudal and about 5 more on latter ; width of head 2^ in its length ; 

 depth of head over posterior margin of orbit 1|; mandible 2; third 

 dorsal spine 2^; third dorsal ray 2^; third anal spine 2|; third anal ray 

 2 ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3f ; caudal 1| ; pectoral 1^ ; ventral 1| ; 

 snout 5* in head measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 4; maxillary 2j; 

 interorbital space 8. 



Body elongate, compressed, rather ellipsoid, with evenly convergent 

 convex profiles both in front and behind, back a little elevated and 

 greatest depth about base of fourth dorsal spine. Edges of body 

 rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, and its length about L} 

 in its least depth. 



Head compressed, rather elongate, upper profile nearly straight to 

 predorsal region and a trifle more inclined than lower. Snout convex, 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIKNCES (1F rillLAnKLl'lHA. 



2o<) 



and its length about f its width. Eye circular, high or touching uj)pcr 

 profile, rounded, and about first third in length of head. Mouth rather 

 large, oblique, and mandible protruding. Maxillary exposed, reach- 

 ing middle t)f orbit, and its distal expansion 2 in latter. Supple- 

 mental maxillary narrow. I.ips rather thin. Teeth fine, pointed, 

 in bantls in jaws, some of inner anterior upper, and inner 

 series of lower, a little enlarged and depressible. ]\Iandibular 

 teeth mostly biserial along sides. A pair oi small curved canines 

 in front of each jaw and mandibular close set. Fine teeth on \omer 

 and palatines. Tongue elongate, slenderly attenuate, smooth and 

 free. Nostrils close together on side of snout above front rim of eye. 



■^y^ 



^%, 



f 





Pig. 3. — Epinephelus Ughtfooti Fowler. (Type.) 



and of about equal size. Interorbital space flattened, with a slight 

 depression in front. ^largin of preorbital entire, slightly undulate. 

 Posterior preopercular margin serrate, serra enlarging towards angle 

 which ends in a forwardly directed enlarged spine, and lower edge 

 entire or but slightly roughened. Opercular spines 3, upper and 

 median opposite though latter largest and nearer lowest, which is 

 anterior. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite midtlle of eye. Gill-rakers 

 lanceolate, 7 + 15, equal to filaments or about 2.V in eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiae a little less than filaments. Isthmus narrowly convergent 

 and with a median groove. Branchiostegals 7. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juue, 



Scales smooth, cycloid, largest on opercle and side, and extending in 

 slightly A\'a\y longitudinal series crossing lateral line posteriorly. 

 Small scales on bases of tins, especially vertical ones. Head largely 

 scaly, except intermandibnlar region, lips and maxillary. Scales on 

 cheek in 17 series. A broad scaly flap over axil of pectoral, which has 

 a pit. Lateral hne of small simple tubes, more or less concurrent 

 with dorsal profile, though rather abruptly convex at summit, and 

 nmning a little high along side of caudal peduncle. 



Spinous dorsal inserted midway between tip of mandible and origin 

 of rayed dorsal, and spmes graduated down from thuxi and fourth 

 which are subequally longest, with margin of fin a little notched 

 between each. Origin of rayed dorsal falling nearly midway between 

 that of spinous fin and base of caudal, antero-median rays longest, and 

 edge of fui rounded. Spmous anal mserted a little nearer origin of 

 pectoral than base of caudal, and second and third spines subequal, 

 much longer than fii^st. Rayed anal similar to rayed dorsal onh- 

 smaller. Caudal romided. Pectoral rounded and reaching i of space 

 to spinous anal. "S'entral inserted behind base of pectoral, reaching i 

 of space to origin of spinous anal, and spine 1^ in fui. A'ent in last 

 third of postventral space just before tips of depressed ventrals. 



Color in alcohol pale or dull tawny-brown, with traces of darker or 

 deeper bro-«Tiish longitudinal streaks over sides, and these slightl}' 

 inclmed on back to extend out on bases of dorsals. Some similar 

 colored bars or streaks indistinctly on head. Rayed dorsal pale brown- 

 ish on outer portion, and on caudal a trifle darker. Anal deep brownish 

 like general body-color. Pectoral very pale broTSTiish with about 4 

 deep brown transverse bands. "N'entral pale brownish basally and 

 becommg dusla--brown distally. Under sm-face of head and abdomen 

 scarcely paler than sides. Ii'is slaty. 



Length 4^ inches. 



T}-pe, Xo. 16.514. A. X. S. P. San Domingo. West Indies. Prof. 

 William M. Gabb. 



The single example described above differs from E. chloropterus 

 cliiefly in coloration, the pectoral having but 3 dark transverse bands, 

 while in the latter there are S or 9. They are shown by MM. ^'aillant 

 and Bocourt. in Miss. Sci. Mex.. Poiss.. 1S75. p. 107. PI. 5. fig. 3 a-c, as 

 rather large sparse pale brown blotches. 



(Xamed for Benjamin H. Lightfoot, who collected fishes at St. 

 Kitts, "West Indies.^ 

 Mycteroperca venenosa apua (BlochV 



^St. Martin's. W. I. ^Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma) : St. Croix. W. I. {Dt. 

 r' E.Griffith). 




Zz'-.'^.-zML-ii ouilirKv^. C Amer. Ptffce. Soc. P.. . I'"' 



1^7i.p. 465. Trpe. N-. ._ : •- .^i. X. S. P. ScMvtBS, « 

 Dr. R. £. ran KjeeremA. 



later- ^rdcal series: S4 scales in a 



anal rar 2: eau'ial 1|: least depth, of eaodaJ. peiTni^ie 2*; Tje«<xal li: 



-H: : . -, - - :,--. .,- _ -. ._ ._^: 



Hrii : ir^rresed. rt Sootrt ^Mit. eosivex. Eve a ^iL—l~ 



reicLins poe-- . ipiL and its dktal er ^ « ere. 



teeth in frc^r: i^. A:-: it 2 irres'ilar series 



clng^- to loTra-. th - -~ "DOeterior. GiU-rakas m. 13 — 32. iel 



~ " "" - - r~ in 



'2o 5«ies of 5 Tubes in lats^ linje sinr)ie. >Tvrifyr.ii 



:-iI insertei 



i'ESS 





"STUsh. Irs? alvery . ^^^v. L^^T^tc. 4^ 




262 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June^ 



the preceding a little in the fins, scales, etc., and therefore it may 

 provisionally be retained as a distinct form until satisfactory com- 

 parisons can be made. 



CENTROPRISTIN^. 

 To replace Serraninoe, as Serranus replaces Epinephelus. 



Hypoplectrus unicolor crocotus (Cope). Fig. 4. 



Plectropoma crocota Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2), XIV, 1&^71, 

 p. 466. Cot}T)es Nos. 13,291 (type) and 13,292, A. N. S. P. St. Martin's, 

 West Indies. Dr. R. E. van Rijgersma. 



Width of head 2^ in its length; interorbital space 5 in head measm-ed 

 from tip of upper jaw. Body compressed and edges rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed. Head compressed, also snout and sides a little 

 flattened, and its width about | its length. Rami of mandible ele- 



Fig. 4. — Hypoplectrus unicolor crocotus (Cope). (Cotype of Plectropoma crocota 



Cope.) 



vated a little inside mouth. Teeth erect in jaws, in rather narrow 

 bands in front with some of inner a little large and others becomin"; 

 smaller posteriorly. Outer series a little enlarged along most of edge 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIHF. ADKLPIHA. 263 



of upper jaw, though becoming progressively smaller posteriorly. 

 Canines 70^ in front of jaws, lower pairs smaller. Mandible with a 

 narrow band of fine teeth, becoming narrower posteriorly. Each side 

 of mandible with about 5 or 6 enlarged canines. Bands of minute 

 teeth on vomer and palatines. Tongue long, slender, pointed and free. 

 Interorbital space flattened. Gill-opening forward to posterior nostril. 

 Gill-rakers v, 2 + 0. ir, equal filaments and about half of eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiiT3 avS long as filaments. Axil of pectoral rather deep. Scales 

 finely ctenoid. Interorbital space and mandible naked. Tubes of 

 lateral line simple. Vent about last fourth in space between tip of 

 ventral spine and origin of spinous anal. Color in alcohol rather bright 

 brown, back deeper colored, also upper surface of head. A deep brown 

 ine along upper margin of preopercle a short distance and with others 

 below. Around eye a more or less interrupted deep brown line which 

 in front extends down across cheek behind maxillary to lower anterior 

 edge of preopercle. On posterior part of cheek traces of a similarly 

 inclined obsolete line towards angle of preopercle. On snout and 

 preorbital several small brownish spots. Fins all plain or pale brown- 

 ish, spinous dorsal darkest basally. Iris slaty. Length 5^ inches. 

 Type. 



Hypoplectrus unicolor chlorurus (Cuvicr). 



St. Croix, W. I. (Thomas Davidson, Dr. R. E. Griffith). 



Faralabrax nebulifer (Girard). 



California? (E. D. Cope) ; San Diego, Cal. (]\Ius. Comp. Zool. Camb.). 



Faralabrax maculo-fasciatus (Steindachner). 



Los Angeles Bay, Cal. (W. N. Lockington). 

 Faralabrax clathratus (Girard). 



Santa Barbara, Cal. (U. S. F. C). 



Centropristis striatus (Lmnaus). 



Bayport, Fla. (E. D. Cope) ; South Carolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook) ; 

 Newport, R. I. (Samuel Powell and Dr. J. Leidy) ; Wood's Hole,' Mass. 



(U. S. F. C). 



Centropristis pbiladelphious (Linaxus). 



South Carohna (Dr. J. E. Holbrook). 



Diplectrum radiate (Quoy and Gaimard). 



Rio Janeiro, Brazil (Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenbcrger) ; Manangucz, 

 Porto Rico (U. S. F. C). 



Diplectrum formosum (Linnaeus). 



Clearwater, Fla. (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry). 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



EUDULITS gen. nom. nov. 

 Tj^De Dules auriga Cu\'ier. 



The species of this genus are close to Prionodes Jenyns, but differ in 

 having 6 branchiostegals and a truncate caudal. The typical species, 

 Eudulus auriga, has the third dorsal spine whip-like and prolonged. 



In the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 150, Dr. Theodore Gill 

 has taken exception to my contention that his genus Kuhlia is super- 

 seded by Dules Cuvier and evidently that Dides malo A^alenciennes is 

 older than Dides mato Lesson. Although my conclusions will now 

 be found to agree somewhat with Dr. Gill's they are the results of 

 different methods. For those who contend that Dulus Viellot, 

 Anal. Ornith. Element., 1816, p. 42, proposed for a genus of birds, and 

 Dules Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ed. 2, II, 1829, p. 147, are different names, 

 Dules will still be fovmd available in place of KuJdia. This led me to 

 frame Duleidoe, rather than Dulidoe, as emended by Dr. Gill. In the 

 Foreign Quarterly Review for January to March, 1829, vols. I, II, IV 

 and V of Regne Animal, Ed. 2, are reviewed, and volume III is said to 

 be delayed a few months. In this journal for 1830 volume III is seen 

 to have at last appeared. Still further evidence is found for the 

 early appearance of Cuvier's Regne Animal in Ferrusac's Bull. Sci. 

 Nat. GeoL, Paris, XVIII, 1829, p. 95 where it is noticed by July. 

 According to this last, in vol. XIX, 1829, p. 369, is found the first 

 mention of vol. Ill, Hist. Nat. Poiss., showing it and the succeeding 

 volumes had not been received till November or December. Cuvier's 

 footnote in the Regne Animal to "Dules auriga Cuv. et. Val., Ill, li; — 

 D. tceniurus, ib., liii," etc., does not prove that they really did appear 

 before the work in which they are quoted, thus leaving both of these 

 names nomina nuda and therefore either not available as the type. 

 In the bound copy of the plates before me only two species are shown, 

 and both numbered 52, though the first has been corrected by the 

 engraver as 51 for Dules marginatus and 52 allowed to remain for D. 

 auriga. The next plate or 53 is Therapon theraps. The evidence I 

 have gathered may be seen to have justified Dides Cuvier^ replac- 

 ing Kuhlia Gill, though I now consider the former preoccupied. 



In the case of Kuhlia malo Lesson's work may have probably appeared 

 later, as in An. Mag. Nat., London, (7) XVII, 1906, p. 336, Messrs. 

 Sherborn and Woodward make corrections to a previous paper on the 

 dates. This would carry the reference to Dules mato back to No veni- 

 re ' The species originally noted under this name by me may now be known as 

 Kuhlia marginala, K. marginata boninensis, K. rupestris and K. malo. 




in07.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



ber 12, 1831. ''March 22, 1828," is a mistake for p. 223 in volume 

 I of the Coquillc. Dr. Gill's argument may therefore be probably 

 justified in this respect, though I do not accept Kuhlin mato now as the 

 correct form, and that "Ciivior's name may liavc resulted from a 

 typographical error.'' 



The priority of the second edition of ihe Regne Animal and the early 

 volumes of the Hist. Nat. Poiss seem to have been juggled by a num- 

 ber of A\Titers, causing confusion in the selection of some names, so 

 that it is hoped the above remarks may conduce to solve the problem. 

 As an instance Gempylus will thus be seen to replace Lemnisoma, if 

 identical. 



(f^u, genuine; ('^onh,^, Dulus or Dulcs, in the latter form an okl name 

 applied to these fishes, meaning a slave, with reference to the fish being 

 under the lash of the long dorsal spine.) 



CALLIDULUS subgen. nov. 

 Type Centroprislis subligarms Cope. 



Third dorsal spine not longer at any age than fourth. 



This differs from subgenus Eudulus chiefly in the above character. 



(h'aUo^, beauty; <J"u-iov-, Dulus.) 



Eudulug subligarius (Cope). Fig. 4. 



Centropriftis .<<nhligarius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 120. 

 Type, Xo. 13,675, A. N. S. P. Southern coast near Pensacola. 



Width of head 2 in its length ; interorbital space 7 in head measured 



from tip of upper jaw. Body compressed, edges rounded, and caudal 



peduncle compressed. Head compressed, its sides swollen below and 



becoming more narrow above. Snout much broader than long. 



Bands of small teeth in jaws, outer canines a little better developed 



than inner, and largest in front of upper jaw and on sides of mandible. 



^'omer with broad patch of fine teeth, and a narrow band on each 



palatine. Tongue narrow, free and smooth. Interorbital space 



narrow and flattened. Gill-opening not quite reaching front margin 



of eye. Rakers v, 1 + 7, v, much shorter than filaments which are 2 



in eye. Gill-membranes free over broadly convex isthmus. Scales 



finely ctenoid. Interorbital space, mandible and branchiostegal region 



naked. Tubes in lateral line simple. Color in alcohol deep brownish, 



fading paler on lower surface of body and fins. Above lateral line 



about 5 narrow deeper brown lines than body-color parallel with coiu'ses 



of scales. Below lateral line each series of scales with a deeper brown 



longitudinal line similar to those above, though soon fading out on 



costal region. Rayed dorsal and anal, caudal and pectoral all marked 




266 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



with deep brown pencillings, due to each ray marked with as many as 

 10 short deep brown bars or spots. A'entrals pale, each with a dusky- 

 brown broad shade from base to tip of longest rays, though leaving a 

 pale margin in front. Preanal region white, strikingly in contrast 

 with deep brown color above anal, and this pale color extending up 

 till about level with lower border of orbit, where it fades out. Its 

 width also decreases above and its anterior boundary dark and distinct. 

 Cheek browaiish. A deep dusky-brown blotch on front of rayed dorsal. 



^'l^i^ 



triit 





Fig. 5. — Eudulus suhligarius (Cope). (Type of Centropri.'itis subligarius Cope.) 



beginning just behind tip of spinous fin, extends vertically down to 

 back and fades out above base of spinous anal above. Also traces of 

 another, though indistinct, from bases of last dorsal rays and A" 

 shaped. At bases of uppermost caudal rays a vertical band of deep 

 brown extends down, though it is dark and saddle-like alcove. Iris 

 brownish. Length 3 inches. 

 Paracentropristis hepatus (Linnaeus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Serranellus cabrilla (Linnaeus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 



Serranellus soriba( Linnaeus). 

 Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 




1907,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Faranthias furcifer (Valenciennes). 



St. Croix, W. I. (Capt. Thomas Davidson). 



Anthias anthias (Linnxus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 



CALLAXTHIIX.E. 



Branchiostegals 6. Lateral line single, and lost on upper surface 

 of caudal peduncle or under last dorsal rays. A single dorsal. Ventral 

 rays 5. 



Callanthias ruber (Rafinesque). 



Anthias buphthabi^us Bonaparte, Fauna Italica, Pesc. Ill, ii, 1833, descr., 

 PI. 86, fig. 3. Cotypes, Nos. 13,624 (type) to 13,637, and 17,161, A. N. 

 S. P. Italy. Bonaparte Coll. (Nos. 75 and 80) 



Head 3f ; depth 3f ; D. XI, 10; A. Ill, 10; scales about 40 in lateral 

 count to base of caudal and several more on latter; about 37 scales in 

 median lateral line to base of caudal ; about 24 tubes in dorsal lateral 

 line; 2 scales between origin of spinous dorsal and dorsal lateral line; 

 5 scales between dorsal lateral line and median lateral line, in a vertical 

 series opposite origin of rayed dorsal; 8 scales in a vertical series 

 between median course of median lateral line and origin of spinous 

 anal; width of head 2 in its length; eleventh dorsal spine 2^; third 

 dorsal ray 1^; third anal spine 2f ; sixth anal ray If; median caudal 

 rays If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^; 

 snout 4 in head measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 2f ; interorbital 

 space 3^; maxillary 2^^. Body well compressed, and edges more or 

 less rounded, or predorsal region with only an obsolete median keel. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed. Head well compressed. Snout about 

 as wide as long. Lips thin. Rami of mandible a little elevated inside 

 mouth. Teeth in jaws uniserial, conic and rather small. At front of 

 each jaw a pair of canines which protrude somewhat, and others along 

 each ramus of mandible. No vomerine or palatine teeth. Tongue 

 narrow, free and pointed. Interorbital space convex. Gill-opening 

 forward about first third of orbit. Rakers 10 + 25, slender, much 

 longer than filaments or about equal to eye horizontally. Pseudo- 

 branchiae nearly as large as filaments. Scales finely ctenoid. Color 

 in alcohol faded more or less uniform brownish, fins pale. Iris brassy- 

 yellow. Length 5f inches. Type. 



PHAROPTERYGIX.E. 



Branchiostegals 6. Vertebrae 25 or 26. Lateral lines 2, upper lost 

 on upper surface of caudal peduncle or under last dorsal rays, and 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J line, 



lower extending along middle of side of tail. A single dorsal. Ventral 

 rays 4. 



Pharopteryx corallicola (Bleeker). 

 Padang, Sumatra (A. C. Harrison and Dr. H. M. Hiller). 



Rypticus xanti (Gill). 



Head 2f ; depth Sf; D. HI, 25, i; A. 16, i; scales about 103 in lateral 

 line to base of caudal and 8 more on latter; pores about 64 in lateral 

 line to base of caudal; about 13 scales in a vertical series between base 

 of second dorsal spine and lateral line; about 27 scales in a vertical 

 series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line; mandible ^ in 

 head; second dorsal spine 4; fifteenth dorsal ray 2^; eleventh anal ray 

 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3; caudal 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral 

 SI ; snout 3i in head measured from tip of upper jaw ; eye 5^ ; maxillary 

 2J; interorbital space 2 in snout. Body long, rather slender, com- 

 pressed and lower profile a little more convex than upper. Head 

 compressed, and upper profile more or less straight from tip of snout 

 to dorsal. Snout broad as long, surface convex. Eye circular, high 

 and about first third in head. Mouth obliciue, with robust mandible 

 well protruding. Lips fleshy. Maxillary broad, reaching posterior 

 margin of eye and its distal expansion | of eye. Rather broad bands 

 of teeth in jaws, and some of inner a little enlarged pointed though not 

 depressible. Bands of fine teeth on vomer and palatines. Tongue 

 long, slender and free. Nostrils near together in front of snout a little 

 above, and anterior in a short cutaneous tube. Interorbital space 

 rather narrowly convex. Preorbital with entire margin convex. Margin 

 of preopercle with 3 spines, lowest largest and uppermost smallest. 

 Opercular spines 3, median most posterior, closer to uppermost, and 

 lowest most anterior. Gill-rakers viii, 1 + 8, vii, short, robust, and a 

 little longer than filaments or half of orbit. Scales small, smooth, 

 and in more or less slightly wavy longitudinal series crossing lateral 

 line behind. Small scales on bases of fins. Head covered with small 

 scales, except on lips and maxillary, and about 24 series on cheek. 

 Lateral line convex at first under spinous dorsal and then sloping 

 gradually down, of simple tubes. Spinous dorsal inserted near first 

 third in entire length of fish, and second spine longest. Rayed dorsal 

 separated (though joined by membrane) by a space about same as 

 space between last 2 dorsal spines, origin of fin midway in length of 

 body and posterior fourth of fin highest with convex edge. Anal 

 inserted midway between origin of pectoral and base of caudal and 

 most of fin more or less equally high. Caudal rounded. Pectoral 

 about I to anal and median rays longest. Ventral inserted midway 




19U7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIlLADELrill A. 2(30 



between tip of mandible and vent, well before origin of pectoral and 

 reaching 3 J to anal or 3 to vent, and spine 2 in fin. Color in alcohol 

 more or less pale or uniform brownish, above variegated with darker 

 marblings and somewhat paler below. Fins all with more or less 

 brownish. Iris pale slaty. Length 4 J inches. Panama. Dr. W. S. W. 

 Riischenberger. 



Rypticus saponaoeus (Schneider). 



West Palm Beach, Fla. (George B. Wood). 



Rypticus ooriaceus (Cope). 



Eleutheractis coriaceus Cope, Trans. Am. Pliilos. Soc. Pliila., (2) XIV, 1S71, 

 p. 467, fis;. 3. Type, No. 13,44.5, A. N. S. P. St. Martin's, West Indies. 

 Dr. R. E. van Rijgcrsma. 



Width of head 2^ in its length ; interorbital space 12 in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw. Edges of body rounded and caudal peduncle 

 compressed. Head compressed. Supplemental maxillary narrow 

 and long. Bands of small fine teeth in jaws and on vomer and pala- 

 tines. Tongue edentulous, rather long, narrow and free. Interorbital 

 space narrow and slightly convex. Gill-opening forward to posterior 

 margin of pupil. Rakers ix, 2 4- 5, ix, lanceolate, and about f of 

 longest filaments w^hich are f of orbit. Vent near front of anal. 

 Color in alcohol more or less deep uniform brownish, fins little darker. 

 Length 8| inches. 



Byptious bistrispinis (Mit chill). 



Rhypticus maculatus Holbrook, Ich. S. Car., Ed. 2, I, 1860, p. 42, PI. 6, fig. 

 ? Type, No. 13,232, A. N. S. P. South Carolina (off Cape Romain) Dr. 

 J. E. Holbrook. 



The above example may be Holbrook's type, but his description gives 

 the length of his single example as 8 inches, while the above is but 7^. 

 Also as the color has faded I cannot detect the markings or spots he 

 indicates. 




270 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GORDIACEA, WITH 

 DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES. 



BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY, JR. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Charles W. Stiles a collection of Gordia- 

 cea from the Smithsonian Institution was sent me for examination, 

 which included the following new species : 

 1. Gordius alasoensis n. sp. 



c^, Smithsonian Institution Coll. No. 6,962; Snug Harbor, Cook 

 Inlet, Alaska. 



Length, 120 mm. 



Form. Cylindrical, very slender, without median grooves; apex of 

 head rounded, anterior portion of the body scarcely narrower than the 

 middle portion. Tail lobes slightly longer than broad (fig. 3 on ventral 

 and fig. 2 on lateral view), somewhat flattened medially, without hairs 

 or spicules ; the cloacal aperture is placed upon a slight eminence, and at 

 a distance from the latter, anterior and lateral to it, is an arched integu- 

 mentary ridge. 



CuticuJa (fig. 1) with low areolae elongated parallel to the long axis 

 of the body, irregular in form and size, close together and irregularly 

 confluent; contiguous areolae are interconnected by one or several 

 narrow ridges. 



Color iridescent dark brown with a darker neck ring, rounded tip of 

 head white. 




1 1)07.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Diiu/nostic characters. The small size aiul even tliameter, the con- 

 fluent, interconnected areolae, the prerloacal ridge and the absence 

 of hairs and spicules on the tail lobes afford a combination of characters 

 that seem to distinguish this from all previously described species. 



Distribution of the North American Species. 



In previous papers* I have described most of the species from the 

 continent of North America, and others have beea described by 

 Camerano^ and \'illot.^ The tenable species known from this region 

 are given below with their ranges, but it may be mentioned that 

 specimens have been collected in only three localities north of the 

 United States and from but a few in Central America, 



1. Paragordius varius (Leidy). 



This is the most abundant species in the United States. It is known 

 from Mexico, Lower California, and Guatemala; and in the United 

 States from Maine, New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsyl- 

 vania, \'irginia. District of Columbia, Kansas, Texas, California, Illinois, 

 Micliigan, Arizona, South Dakota and New Mexico. 



2. Gordius villoti Rosa.* 



Mexico, Bay of Fundy, Ungava (Canada) ; and in the United States 

 from Maryland, Massachusetts, District of Columbia, New York, 

 PennsAdvania, Montana, Kansas, California, Michigan, Arkansas, 

 Vermont, Tennessee, Oklahoma, North Carolina, South Dakota, 

 Texas. It seems to be next abundant to the preceding. 



3. G. villoti difficilis (Montg.). 



North Carolina. This and the following may prove not to be tenable 

 but to be neotenic forms of G. villoti. 



4. G. lineatus Leidy. 



New York, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Michigan; most of the speci- 

 mens have been found in springs. 



' 1S9S, The Gordiacea of Certain American Collections, Bull. Mus. Comp. 

 Zool. Harvard, 32.— IH9S, Idem., II, Proc. California .\rad. Sci. (3), 1.— 1900, 

 Gordiacea from the Cope Collection, Biol. Bull., 1. — 1901, The Identity of the 

 Gordiacean Species, Chordodes morgani and C. puerilis, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Philadelphia. 



■ 1S9S, 1897, Monografia dei Gordii, Accad. Reals Sci. Torino. 



^ Monographie de.s Dragonneaux, 1874, Arch. Zool. gener. expcr., 3. 



* I would follow Camerano in dropping the name Gordius aquaticus Linn, on 

 account of insufficient diagnosis, and in adopting G. villoti Kosa for the species 

 described by Villot as G. aquaticus Linn. G. robustus Leidy, G. aquaticus robustus 

 (Leidy) ynihi, and G. aquaticus Linn, as pre\-iousIy used by me then become 

 svnonvms of G. I'illoti. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Junf\. 



5. G. densaraeolatus Montg. 



I^Wj^oming, Montana, California; evidently a Western form. 



6. G. platyoephalus Montg. 



Ungava (Canada), Guatemala; and in the United States from 

 Pennsylvania and Montana. 



7. G. violaceus Baird. 



California. I doubt whether this is tenable, since the diagnosis is 

 meagre and males are unknown. 



8. G. longareolatus Montg. 

 California. 



9. G. alasoensis Montg. 

 Alaska. 



10. Chordodes morgani Montg. 



Maryland, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, Florida, Iowa, Nebraska. 

 Fairly common in the eastern portion of the United States. 



11. C. occidentalis Montg. 



Sonora (Mexico), and California, Arizona, Montana, Texas, Wyo- 

 ming; on the western part of the continent this replaces the preceding. 



12. C. dugesi Gamer. 



Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



13. C. griflBnii Camer. 



Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



14. C. cameranonis Montg. 

 Mazatlan or Panama. 



From the United States there are then known some eleven forms, 

 two or three of which may be found to be untenable. Of these the 

 final hosts are known only for Paragordius varius (a Gryllid, Acheto), 

 for Gordius villoti (Acridiids), for Chordodes morgani (a Blattid), and 

 for C. occidentalis (an Acrid iid). 




1907.] NATURAL SCIKNT'KS OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



BERTRAMIA BUFONIS. A NEW SPOROZOAN PARASITE OF BUFO 

 LENTIGINOSUS. 



BY HELEN DEAN KING. 



In a paper dealing with the stnictm-e and development of "Bidder's 

 organ," a rounded body found at the anterior end of each testis in 

 various species of Bufo, Knappe^ states that occasionally spermatozoa 

 are found in the cells of this organ which is undoubtedly a rudimentary 

 ovary; he adds, furthermore, that these spermatozoa have probably 

 JDeen formed from small follicle cells which have entered the cytoplasm 

 of the undeveloped ova. 



In the course of investigations which I have been making this past 

 winter upon the development of the germ-cells and the structure of 

 Bidder's organ in the common American toad, Bufo lentiginosus , 1 have 

 found one individual in which the cells of Bidder's organ contain bodies, 

 unquestionably parasites, which are very similar to those figured by 

 Knappe as spermatozoa. It seems probable, therefore, that in the 

 material studied by Knappe the "spermatozoa" are stages in the life 

 cycle of some species of Sporozoa; for in the light of our present knowl- 

 edge regarding the origin and development of germ-cells it is incon- 

 ceivable that functional spermatozoa could be formed in or from the 

 cytoplasm of rudimentary ova that are destined to undergo degenera- 

 tion. "WTiether the species of parasite found in the American toad is 

 the same as that infecting the European form I have not been able to 

 determine, as details of structure cannot be made out from the figures 

 given by Knappe. 



The individual infected by the parasite was a young male which was 

 killed on July 16, 1905, at Owego, X. Y. Nothing unusual or abnormal 

 about the toad attracted my attention at the time that the animal was 

 killed; and, as material was being collected for a study of the genital 

 organs, only the testes, Bidder's organ, and a portion of the kidneys 

 were preserved. The material was fixed in Flemming's solution and 

 stained with iron-hsematoxylin followed by orange G. 



As so few of the organs of the body were preserved, it is impossible 

 to state the extent of the infection. The parasite is found only in the 

 ova of Bidder's organ, and not in the testes or in the renal tubules, 



' Knappe, E., Das Bidder'sche Organ, Morph. Jahrb., Bd. XI, 1886. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JuilG, 



Judging from the stages that I have been able to find, the parasite is 

 undoubtedly a Sporozoan belonging to the order Haplosporidia. It 

 does not fit in very well with the present scheme of classification of the 

 Haplosporidia; but until its complete life history is known, I do not 

 think it advisable to create for it a new genus. I shall, therefore, 

 place it temporarily in the genus Bertramia (Caullery and Mesnil, 1897). 

 As the parasite is apparently a new species, it may be known as 

 Bertramia bufonis. 



The youngest stage of the parasite that I have been able to find is a 

 small, round or oval body with a diameter of about two microns 

 (plate XXII, fig. 1, a). The cytoplasm is uniformly granular and the 

 nucleus, which occupies the centre of the cell, is round or somewhat 

 irregular in outline. The nucleus is composed, apparently, of a dense 

 mass of chromatin, as it always appears homogeneous and stains 

 intensely black with the iron-hsematoxylin. 



After the young parasite enters one of the ova of Bidder's organ it 

 divides repeatedly, forming a number of cells similar to that shown 

 in fig. 1, a. Cell division undoubtedly takes place by means of karyo- 

 kinesis, as I have found several cases like that of fig. 1, b, in which 

 faint traces of a spindle can be seen and also irregular masses of chro- 

 matin collected at the spindle poles. After the division of the chro- 

 matin, the daughter-nuclei assume a rounded shape (fig. 1, c), and 

 subsequently division of the cjrtoplasm takes place, (fig. 1, <i). Some- 

 times, as shown in fig. 1, e and /, one or both of the cells will have begun 

 a second division before the first division is entirely completed. All 

 of the stages shown in fig. 1, a-f, may be found in a single section of one 

 of the large ova of Bidder's organ. 



The period of multiplication is followed by a growth period in which 

 each of the cells increases enormously in size and the nucleus divides 

 a number of times without any corresponding division of the cytoplasm 

 (figs. 2-5). The nuclear divisions at this stage of development are 

 evidently also mitotic (fig. 3), although on account of the small size 

 of the spindle and of the chromosomes it is quite impossible to make 

 out any details of the process. 



At a comparatively early stage in its development the trophozoite 

 becomes surrounded by a thin membrane (fig. 4), which later forms a 

 cyst wall enclosing the spores (fig. 7). The full-grown trophozoite has 

 a diameter of 9-11 microns, and contains a large number of deepl}' 

 staining nuclei which are usually irregular in outline (fig. 5). The 

 multinucleated body soon segments into a mass of spores (fig. 6), 

 which become round or oval as soon as separation is effected (fig. 7). 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPIII A. 275 



The mature cysts arc about 15 microns in diameter and they are 

 invariably rounded, unless, as occasionally happens, they are distorted 

 by contact with adjacent cysts. Each cyst contains at least 30 spores. 

 As the spores are closely crowded together, I have not been able to 

 make out the exact number in any one cyst or to determine whether 

 the number is constant for all of the cysts. The young spore has 

 granular cytoplasm and a single, deeply staining nucleus (fig. 7, a). 

 It resembles somewhat the stage of the parasite shown in fig. 1, a; 

 but as it is considerably smaller and is always enclosed in a cyst, the 

 two stages are easily distinguished. In their later history the majority 

 of the spores follow one of two clearly marked modes of development, 

 which, for convenience in description, will be designated as Type I 

 and Type II. 



The first change that takes place in the spores that develop according 

 to Type I is the appearance of a clear area around the nucleus which 

 occupies the centre of the spores (fig. 7, h). Owing to the small size of 

 the spores it is impossible to determine whether the nucleus suddenly 

 becomes vesicular at this time or whether the clear area is a fluid vacu- 

 ole. Judging from the changes that take place in later stages of 

 development, I am inclined to the opinion that the character of the 

 nucleus does not change at this time and that the clear area around the 

 nucleus is a vacuole. Soon after the formation of the vacuole the 

 nucleus divides (fig. 7, c) and, as the spore elongates, the two nuclei 

 separate and move to opposite ends of the vacuole which increases 

 considerably in size (figs. 8, 9) ; subsequently the vacuole itself divides 

 and each part comes to surround one of the nuclei (fig. 10). At the 

 next stage the vacuoles, with the nuclei, are found at the ends of the 

 spore which has now attained its final shape (fig. 11). The nuclei 

 appear as large and stain as deeply at the stage of fig. 11 as they do in 

 the young parasite; but in a slightly older spore they are considerably 

 smaller and stain much less intensely (fig. 12). At a later period all 

 traces of the nuclei are lost and the vacuoles appear perfectly clear and 

 transparent (figs. 13, 14). 



During all stages in the development of the parasite up to that of 

 fig. 13, the cytoplasm appears granular and stains very faintly. When 

 the nuclei disappear at the stage of fig. 13, the cytoplasm in contact 

 with the vacuoles shows a strong affinity for the iron-haematoxylin, 

 although the rest of the spore stains as faintly as before. In a slightly 

 older stage the central portion of the cytoplasm stains as intensely as 

 the end regions, and the entire spore, excepting the vacuoles, appears 

 uniformly black (fig. 14). Somewhat later the vacuoles begin to 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



decrease in size (fig. 15) and eventually they too disappear. The 

 mature spore (fig. 16) is about 3 microns long and 1.5 microns wide; 

 the ends are oval and a slight constriction is usually found in the 

 middle region. In a single section of a cell of Bidder's organ one may 

 find as many as 15 cysts, containing spores in practically all stages of 

 development, from that shown in fig. 7, a, to that of the mature spore 

 shown in fig. 16. As cysts containing spores that stain very faintly may 

 lie adjacent to cysts in which the spores are all stained black, it is 

 evident that the great affinity of the cytoplasm for the iron-hsema- 

 toxylin is not due to an overstaining of the material, but to some 

 change taking place in the substance of the spore itself. 



As the more intense staining of the cytoplasm of the spore is invari- 

 ably coincident with the disappearance of the nuclei from the vacuoles, 

 it would seem as if the two phenomena must be related in some way ; 

 and it is possible that, after the stage of fig. 1 1 , the chromatin substance 

 gradually becomes distributed throughout the cytoplasm and brings 

 about a deeper staining of the spore contents. Although I have found 

 a large number of spores in which the nuclei are of various sizes and 

 stain with different degrees of intensity at the outer border of the 

 vacuoles, I cannot be certain that the nuclei break down at this place; 

 for I have found several spores like those shown in figs. 24 and 25, in 

 which two nuclei lie in the cytoplasm after the vacuoles have moved to 

 the ends of the spore. I have not succeeded in finding any stages that 

 would seem to connect fig. 11 with fig. 24, yet it is possible that soon 

 after the stage of fig. 11 the nuclei pass quickly from the vacuoles 

 into the cytoplasm which at once stains more intensely. From the 

 evidence at hand, I am inclined to believe that the spores shown in figs. 

 24 and 25 are abnormal and that the nuclei gradually disintegrate at 

 the outer border of the vacuoles. 



In the second type of development, which is not as common as the 

 type just described, the nucleus moves to one end of the spore and 

 takes a position as shown in fig. 17. A vacuole then forms around the 

 nucleus as in Type I (fig. 18), and subsequently the nucleus divides 

 (fig. 19). Later the two nuclei, which stain as intensely as in the 

 earlier stages, move to opposite ends (figs. 21, 22) or, in some few cases, 

 to opposite sides (fig. 20) of the vacuole. The vacuole increases in size 

 as the spore elongates ; but, as far as I have been able to determine, it 

 does not divide into two parts, as does the vacuole in the spores that 

 follow the first type of development. After the disappearance of the 

 nuclei in the stage succeeding that of fig. 22 the vacuole gradually 

 becomes smaller (fig. 23), and the entire spore stains black and appears 

 as in fig. 16. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



Deviations from these two types of development are not uncommon, 

 some of the more striking variations being slunvn in figs. 2-i-.31. The 

 spore from which fig. 24 was drawn seems to be a variation of Type I, 

 in which the nuclei have moved into the cytoplasm instead of towards 

 the outer border of the vacuoles. It is possible, as I have already 

 suggested, that fig. 24 shows a normal stage in the development of the 

 spore, and that it belongs between the stage of fig. 12 and that of fig. 

 13. In the spore shown in fig. 25 it is evident that, when the vacuole 

 divided, both nuclei remained in one of the two vacuoles that were 

 formed (as is shown in fig. 28), and that they passed into the cytoplasm 

 after the vacuole had taken its position at the end of the spore. As 

 indicated in fig. 25, the cytoplasm surrounding the nuclei stains con- 

 siderably darker than that in the rest of the spore; and although the 

 nuclei are clearly seen at this time, they are totally obscured in the 

 following stage when the region in which they lie stains black (fig. 26). 

 A spore in which one nucleus only has left its vacuole is shown in fig. 27 ; 

 while variations in the number, size, and situation of the vacuoles are 

 shown in figs. 28-31. 



I can offer no explanation as to the way in which the cells of Bidder's 

 organ become infected with the parasite. There is no direct means of 

 communication betw^een this organ and the testis, and therefore it 

 does not seem possible that infection was through the cloaca and the 

 kidneys, hence by way of the testis to Bidder's organ. As Bidder's 

 organ contains a large number of capillaries, it seems most probable that 

 infection took place through the blood. Although I have^carefully 

 examined sections of the blood vessels containing large numbers of 

 corpuscles, I have found no traces of the parasite either in the corpuscles 

 or in the plasma. In one instance three mature spores were found in 

 the plasma of a capillary in Bidder's organ ; but it seems probable that 

 these spores were derived from one of the many cysts in the organ con- 

 taining ripe spores. As all of the large ova in Bidder's organ eventually 

 degenerate, usually through the rupture of the outer wall and the 

 penetration of a capillary into the interior, it is evident that the spores 

 finally get into the circulation. How they pass to the exterior and 

 whether they subsequently undergo a further development in another 

 host remains to be determined. 



During recent years much interest has been taken in the life history 

 of the Sporozoa which seem to infect many of the invertebrates as well 

 as all classes of the vertebrates. Interest in this group has naturally 

 centred in the parasites infecting the mammals ; and the amphibians as a 

 class have not been systematically examined, either in Europe or in 

 19 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Jline, 



America, for Sporozoan parasites. In the list of Sporozoa and their 

 hosts recently compiled by Minchin,^ Bufo lentiginosus is given as the 

 host of one known species, Leptotheca (Chloromyxum) ohlmacheri, a 

 Myxosporidian which was first described in 1893 by Ohlmacher,^ who 

 found it in the renal tubules. In but two other instances have Sporo- 

 zoan parasites been found in any species of Bufo, and comparatively 

 few cases of infection have been recorded for the different species of 

 Rana. As presumably the amphibians are as subject to parasitic 

 infection as are the other vertebrates, they would seem to afford a 

 profitable field of investigation for the discovery of new Sporozoan 

 forms. 



Explanation of Plate XXII. 



All figures were drawn with the aid of a camera lucida under a Zeiss apoc. obj. 

 1.5 mm. Oc. 8. 



Fig. 1. — ^The young parasite and its division stages. 

 Fig. 2. — Trophozoite at the beginning of the growth period. 

 Fig. 3. — Mitotic division of the nuclei of the young trophozoite. 

 Fig. 4. — Formation of the cyst wall around the trophozoite. 

 Fig. 5. — Mature trophozoite before its division into spores. 

 Fig. 6. — Division of tlie trophozoite into spores. 

 Fig. 7. — Cyst containing young spores. 



Figs. 8-16. — Stages in the development of spores according to Type I. 

 Figs. 17-23. — Stages in the development of spores according to Type II. 

 Figs. 24-31. — Spores showing apparent deviations from the usual modes of 

 development. 



^ Minchin, E. A., Sporozoa: A Treatise on Zoology, edited bv E. Ra}' Lancaster, 

 Pt. I, 1903. 



^ Olilmacher, A. P., Myxosporidia in the Common Toad, with Preliminary 

 Observations on the Chromophilis Substance in the Spore, Journ. Amer. Med. 

 Assoc, Vol. XX, 1893. 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 279 



ORTHOPTERA FROM NORTHERN FLORIDA. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD, 



The material treated in this paper was collected by the authors 

 between the 10th and 20th of August, 1905. The localities at 

 which collecting was done are treated below in detail. The material 

 has been divided between the collection of the Academy and the 

 collection of the junior author, all types remaining in the latter. The 

 number of specimens examined is 1,356, representing eighty-nine 

 species, of which four are described as new. 



Localities. 



Jacksonville, Duval County. The few specimens taken at this 

 locality were captured in a weed-covered lot near the railroad station, 

 among the shrubbery in Hemming Park, on the street, on the Clyde 

 Line wharf, and at a suburb on the St. John's River known as Riverside. 



Pahlo Beach, Duval County. This small communit}', existing almost 

 entirely as a summer resort, is situated on the Atlantic coast of the 

 peninsula, seven miles south of the mouth of the St. John's River and 

 eighteen miles east of Jacksonville. The characters of the regions or 

 zones at this locality at which collecting was carried on are quite varied , 

 and a detailed description is necessary. 



The beach proper is very wide along this part of the coast, the 

 angle of its slope is very slight, and its boundary formed by rather 

 irregular sand dunes, some of which are thirty or more feet high. 

 The upper slopes and tops of the dunes are covered with a growth of 

 scrub or saw palmetto (Serenoa serratula). These dunes while irregu- 

 lar in height are very regular in the line of their steep barrier-like 

 seaward slope. 



Landward the (hmes drop into a level tract of sandy barrens varying 

 from one to two or more miles in width and extending for a considerable 

 distance up and down the coast. The barrens are thickly covered with 

 saw palmetto (Serenoa serratula) and several other low plants, making 

 everywhere a low but thick tangle. While usually dry in character 

 this open saw-palmetto region has numerous wet spots, some with the 

 sand little more than damp and others with considerable areas of true 




280 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



marsh with some of the accompanying vegetation. About these 

 marshy spots are frequently bushes ten or fifteen feet in height, which 

 are the only vegetation of any height in the extensive "palmetto 

 scrub," as this region is called in the following pages. 



Farther north along the beach, and in a few localities about Pablo 

 Beach, the ground immediately west of the shore dunes is covered with 

 a dense tangle of numerous varieties of bushes, the majority of which 

 are about ten feet high. It was in these bushes that Cyrtophyllus was 

 abundant. 



Inland the broad tract of open country is bordered by another area, 

 bearing a scattering growth of pine and an occasional cabbage palmetto 

 {Sabal palmetto) growing on marshy soil, this zone being distinctly 

 narrower than the preceding one. 



West of the scattered pine belt is a strongly marked zone of "ham- 

 mock" land, the arborescent species of which are varied but in a large 

 part cabbage palmetto, all very closely placed and woven together with 

 numerous lianas. This zone is almost impenetrable, is about a mile 

 in width and extends for miles up and down the coast, in most places 

 being on higher ground than the immediately surrounding country. 



Pablo Creek flows north on the west side of the hammock, emptying 

 into the St. John's near Mayport, and extensive dependent marshes 

 are present on the east side of the stream, between it and the "ham- 

 mock" land. In little scattered areas here are marshy pine woods, 

 but in no place in this creek marsh was the collecting found to be good. 



Still farther inland, west of the stream and beginning at the w^estern 

 edge of the creek marsh, is the extensive long-leaf pine {Pinus palnstris) 

 forest which stretches westward to the St. John's. 



Access to these various zones was gained chiefly by means of a rail- 

 road embankment, along the sides of wdiich, in wet drains overgrown 

 with grass and in cleared grass and weed covered right-of-way, much 

 good collecting was done. 



San Pablo, Duval Counttj. This locality is situated in the long-leaf 

 pine forest three miles west of Pablo Beach. The undergrowth in the 

 woods here was dry and chiefly wire-grass. This situation was the 

 nearest to Pablo Beach at which typical pine woods collecting could be 

 secured. The Orthoptera taken at this locality showed a considerable 

 affinity to that taken in the open saw palmetto at Pablo Beach. 



Gainesville, Alachua County, is situated in northern Florida, sixty- 

 two miles in an air-line southwest of Jacksonville. The region is that 

 of the long-leaf pine {Pinus palustris) and forests of this noble tree 

 surround the town, although large areas have been cleared and are 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rUlLADELrill A. 281 



either under cultivation or grown up as characteristic Southern "okl 

 fields." Excellent collecting was found here in the undergrowth in the 

 pine woods, the gallberry bushes, scrub oaks and wire grass affording 

 excellent cover. In several flooded sink-holes in the pine woods we 

 found among the surrovuiding marsh grasses such moisture-loving 

 forms as Leptysma, Sienacris and Eotdtix palustris. Owing to the fact 

 that our stay was limited to a day and a half, the collection from this 

 locality doubtless does not include many species which might be 

 found there, biit the results for that length of time were extremely 

 satisfactory. 



Cedar Keys. Levy County. On a small coquina islet in the northern 

 Gulf of Mexico, a short distance from the Florid an mainland, is the 

 town of Cedar Keys. The town is on one of a number of keys to which 

 collectively its name is applied. The surface of the main key is slightly 

 rugged and the soil poor, owing to the almost bare coquina rock. 

 Outside of the village scattered groves of short-leaf pine, numerous 

 palmettos and an undergrowth of waist-high bushes comprise the 

 principal floral features of the dry land. There are many large Indian 

 shell-mounds on the key, and on them the forest growth is thickest. 

 The key is indented by many lagoons and bays, along the edges of 

 which are many wide areas of salt-marsh grass in which Orthoptera 

 was exceedingly abundant. 



Palatka, Putnam County. The material from this locality was taken 

 in the town proper. 



St. Augustine. St. John County. The few specimens from this 

 locality were taken in the hotel grounds in the evening. 



FORFIOULIDuE. 

 Anisolabis maritima (Bonaterre). 



A pair of this species was taken from under rubbish on a lot in the 

 city of Jacksonville, August 11. 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



This widely distributed species was taken at three localities: Jack- 

 sonville, August 11, in company with A. maritima, one male; Pablo 

 Beach, August 11 (marsh), one female; Cedar Keys, August 15, one 

 female. 



Labia burgessii Scudder. 



Three females of this species were taken at Cedar Keys, August 15. 



Labia guttata Scudder. 



This species is represented by a single female from San Pablo, taken 

 August 13 from under pine bark. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



BLATTID^. 

 Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn. 



An adult female of this species was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11, 

 from under palmetto root. 



Eurycotis floridana (Walker). 



Two females from Cedar Keys, August 15, represent this species. 

 Periplaneta americana (Linmeus). 



This species was noticed at every locality visited in Florida. 



Periplaneta australasise (Fabricius). 



This species is represented by a nymph from Cedar Keys, August 15, 

 taken under adherent dead petiole bases of palmetto. Mature in- 

 dividuals were seen at St. Augustine and Palatka. 

 Periplaneta truncata Krauss. 



The evening of August 20 this species was found very abundant on 

 the Clyde Line wharf at Jacksonville. Portions of the wharf under the 

 electric lights seemed to be their favorite haunts, and when disturbed 

 they scurried rapidly away or hid in the crevices between the planking. 

 A series of seven males, eleven females and two nymphs are in the 

 collection. Unquestionably this species is becoming more generally 

 distributed in the Gulf States, and from the evidence in hand its 

 strongholds are probably the larger ports, to which it has no doubt 

 been brought by shipping from the tropics. 



The series mentioned above exhibits considerable variation in the 

 length of the tegmina and wings. 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnseus). 



A series of six females represent this species, the localities being 

 Cedar Keys, August 15, Gainesville, August 17 (in room), Palatka, 

 August 19, and St. Augustine, August 19. 



The Cedar Keys specimens are all small and quite dark, with the 

 pale cephalic line on the pronotum broadly interrupted in the middle 

 and much reduced laterad. The individuals from the other localities 

 have the tegmina paler, the cephalic pronotal margin distinctly and 

 continuously marked and the general size greater. 



MANTID^. 

 Stagmomantis Carolina (Johannson). 



This species is represented by five nymphs from Pablo Beach, August 

 11 and 13 (in grass, palmetto scrub and pine woods), two nymphs from 

 Gainesville, August 16 (undergrowth in pine woods), and one adult 

 female specimen from Cedar Keys, August 15. The latter speci- 




1007.] XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



men, while fully adult, has the tegmina and wings but slightly 

 exceeding the margin of the second abdominal segment. 

 Thesprotia graminis (Scudder). 



One male from Gainesville, August 16 (undergrowth in pine woods), 

 represents this species. 



PHASMIDiB. 

 MANOMERA.' n. gen. 



1900. Bncunculus Scudder, Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., VIII, p. 9.5. 



[Not of Burmeister, 1838.] 

 190.3. Bacunculus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 872. [Not of 



Burmeister.] i , 



On comparison of material of Scudder's Bacunculus tenuescens with 

 specimens and figures of typical species of Ileteronemia Gray {Bacuncu- 

 lus of authors, but not of Burmeister), it is evident that no close rela- 

 tionship exists in that direction, and affinity really exists with Dia- 

 pheromera instead of Bacunculus of authors. 



The original description given by Scudder omits mention of the very 

 distinct spines present on the median femora of the male, although his 

 figures (pi. 1, figs. 1 and 2) show their presence. On the basis of 

 Scudder's description, Caudell, who had never seen the male sex, says, 

 in describing the genus, ''Legs of male unarmed." The spine of the 

 median femora of the male is placed in the same position as in Dia- 

 pheromera, and is very similar in character but slenderer, the caudal 

 femora, however, being unarmed. 



The structure of the abdominal appendages is fundamentally the 

 same as in Diapheromera and not as in Heteroneniia, the subgenital 

 opercule being in no way like the latter genus. From Diapheromera, 

 Manomera can be separated in the male by the slender head, the absence 

 of caudal femoral spines, the uninfiated median femora and the more 

 elongate abdominal appendages. 



Manomera tenuescens (Scudder). 



A male from Pablo Beach, August 12, another from San Pablo, 

 August 13, and three males and five females from Gainesville, August 

 16, represent this peculiar Florida form. The male from Pablo Beach 

 was swept from marsh grass, but all the other individuals taken w^ere 

 from the wire-grass and other low undergrowth in pine woods, where 

 protective resemblance would appear to be an important factor in the 

 life of the insect. 



The specimeas vary considerably in size, particularly in the male sex, 



' Mavof, thin; nipa, thighs. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jlllie, 



and represent two color phases, brown and green forms. These forms 

 may be sexual as all the males are of the brown type and the females 

 of the green, but it is hardly safe to assume this to be true on the 

 amount of material in hand. The base color of the dorsum in the 

 male varies from raw sienna to vandyke brown, the legs in all the 

 specimens being greenish proximad, shading into olive or decided 

 brownish distad. The lateral yellowish stripe is prominent in all the 

 males, becoming whitish on the abdomen and extending to the base of 

 the cerci. In the female this stripe is usually less prominent, and in one 

 specimen is almost absent. 



Aside from the above records this species has been recorded from 

 Cedar Keys, Capron and Biscayne, Florida. 



Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stoll). 



Four males and three females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, 

 four males and six females from San Pablo, August 13, and one female 

 from Gainesville, August 16, comprise the series of this species. Except 

 for a Pablo Beach specimen taken in open palmetto scrub, all are from 

 undergrowth in pine woods. A large part of the specimens were taken 

 in coitu, and in one case two pairs and a single individual were taken 

 from one plant. 



From the material in hand it does not appear possible to separate 

 two species, for while typical female specimens of what CaudelP 

 calls ferruginea (Palisot) are in the series from San Pablo and a number 

 of the others are true buprestoides, specimens from Gainesville and 

 Pablo Beach connect the two extremes, the pale ferruginea and the 

 strongly trilineate buprestoides. All the males collected are unquestion- 

 ally true buprestoides. A pair from Osprey, Manatee County, Florida, 

 in the Academy collection approach the pale type. 



AORIDID^. 



Nomotettix oristatus Scudder. 



This species is represented by seven males and one female from 

 Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, one male and one female from San 

 Pablo, August 13, and seven males, four females and two nymphs from 

 Gainesville, August 16 and 17. 



In the region examined this species appears to have little preference 

 for one particular environment, as the Pablo Beach series contains 

 specimens taken in undergrowth in open pine woods, on damp sand, 

 in palmetto scrub and in grass. The San Pablo specimens were taken 

 in pine woods undergrowth, and the Gainesville series in the same 

 character of surroundings except one from the edge of a sink-hole. 



^ Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, pp. 880, 882. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCE.s OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Neotettix femoratus (Scudder). 



One male and three females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13. 

 taken in open pine woods undergrowth and palmetto scrub, represent 

 this species. All the specimens are short-winged. 



Neotettix bolteri Hancock. 



An adult female and a nymph from Gainesville, August 16 and 17, 

 belong to this rather scarce species. One was taken from a marshy 

 sink-hole, the other in pine woods undergrowth. 



Apotettix rugosus (Scudder). 



A male individual from Cedar Keys, August 15, appears to represent 

 this species. In the proportions of the pulvilli of the caudal tarsi it 

 does not agree with the description given by Hancock,^ and resembles 

 in this respect the much smaller Apotettix minutus Rehn and Hebard, 

 It is possible this specimen may not be true rugosus, but in all characters 

 but the pulvilli proportions it is fully typical of that species, 



Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



A single male from San Pablo, August 13, was taken in undergrowth 

 in pine woods. It belongs to the form with the elongate pronotum. 

 Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 



This variable species is represented by a series of eight males and 

 seven females from Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, and one male 

 from Gainesville, August 16. Individuals were taken in swampland, 

 palmetto scrub, in undergrowth in pine woods and on damp sand. All 

 the specimens are of the type with the produced pronotum, and con- 

 siderable variation in the cephalic angle of the pronotum is observed. 



Radinotatum brevipenne (Thomas). 



This peculiar grasshopper was numerous in localities in pine woods 

 undergrowth at Gainesville, August 16, two males, five females and one 

 nymph being collected. At Pablo Beach, August 11 to 13, two males 

 and five nymphs were taken in grass, palmetto scrub, pine woods 

 undergrowth, and one of the males in marshland. Compared with 

 spring experience around Thomasville, Ga., this species is not as com- 

 mon in the summer, but the number of adults is proportionately greater. 



Mermiria alacris Scudder. 



This strikingl}^ colored species was numerous in pine woods under- 

 growth and palmetto scrub at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 13, six 

 adult males, four females and three nymphs being collected. A single 

 female from San Pablo, August 13, and three males from Gainesville, 



3 The Tettigidce of N. A mer., p. 104. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC , 



August 16, were taken in pine woods. Cedar Keys is represented by a 

 single male taken August 15. 



Mermiria vigilans Scudder. 



This species is more distinctly a marsh-loving form when com- 

 pared with M. alacris, its favorite habitat being tall marsh grass in 

 extensive tracts or narrow marsh drains. At Pablo Beach this species 

 was common, particularly in a wet grassy drain along the railroad 

 embankment, a series of fourteen males and twelve females being 

 collected on August 11 and 12. At Cedar Keys, August 15, two males 

 and two females were taken in salt marsh. In the series studied four 

 females are in the green phase, while several males exhibit a similar 

 tendenc3\ 



Mermiria intertexta Scudder. 



A single male from Pablo Beach, August 13, represents this species, 

 which can be separated from vigilans by the broader, distinctly triangu- 

 lar fastigium and the narrower disk of the pronotum. 



Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



This species is partial to palmetto scrub and pine woods cover, being 

 common but nowhere abundant at the localities visited. Pablo Beach 

 is represented by seven males and four females taken August 11 to 13; 

 Gainesville by three males, two females and one nymph; Cedar Keys, 

 August 15, by one male. 



All the specimens seen from Georgia and Florida are considerably 

 larger than New Jersey individuals of the same sex. 



Maoneillia obscura Scudder. 



In a restricted area in long-leaf pine woods at Gainesville, on August 

 16, this species was found in the undergrowth in moderate numbers, 

 all the specimens seen being taken. A partiality on the part of the 

 species for low oak growth was noticeable. The series in our hands 

 from this locality consists of four adult males, six females and four 

 nymphs. One of the males, two of the females and two nymphs have 

 the median pronotal bar strongly marked, while one male and two 

 females have it weaker but still quite apparent. 



Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



Eight immature specimens from Pablo Beach, August 11-13, and 

 four from Gainesville, August 16, appear to represent this species. 

 Aside from individuals taken in dry palmetto scrub, these immature 

 specimens were from pine woods undergrowth, in situations such as are 

 favored by the adults in spring. 




15)07.] XATUKAL SCIENCES OF PIIir^ADELPIlIA. 287 



Orphulella pratorum Scinldor. 



The speciiueus from the locahties given for this species have been 

 compared with material from New Jersey, ^Maryland, Georjjia, Florida 

 and Alabama, all of which is considered by the authors to belong to this 

 species. The Florida series here studied presents the usual color 

 forms found in the species and was collected in a variety of habitats, 

 ranging from dry pine woods undergrowth to open marsh. The 

 localities represented are Pablo Beach, August 11-13, eight males, 

 four females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, six males, four females; 

 Palatka, August 19, one female; Cedar Keys, August 15, two males. 

 Nymphs were taken at Pablo Beach and Gainesville, and an adult 

 male was taken during a train stop at Fairfax, S. C. August 10. 



Orpliulella pelidna (Burmeister). 7 



The specimens here referred doubtfull}' to Burmeister's species 

 have been carefully compared with the available determined material 

 of this poorly understood species, and while they differ in a number of 

 features from the other specimens, it can be positively asserted that 

 they are not the allied olivacea or extremely large specimens of the 

 species we consider to be Scudder's pratorimi. 



In size these specimens exceed any other North American individuals 

 of the genus seen by us, particularly in the female sex. The fastigium 

 is shaped much as in Nebraska specimens considered pelidna, but the 

 tegmina and wings are very long, slender and not as broad as in pra- 

 torum. The largest male measures, length of body 20 mm; length of 

 pronotum 4; length of tegmen 18.2; length of caudal femur 12.5; the 

 largest female, length of body 27.5; length of pronotum 5; length of 

 tegmen 23; length of caudal femur 17. 



Aside from one male taken at Pablo Beach, August 12, the series of 

 eleven males and twelve females were taken at Cedar Keys, August 15. 



Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



This widely distriljuted species is represented by a series of twenty 

 specimens, eight of which are in the brown phase. Jacksonville is 

 represented by three males and six females, taken August 11, on a 

 weedy lot in the middle of the city ; Pablo Beach by three males, four 

 females and two nymphs, taken August 11, 12 and 13, all in marsh 

 except one male and a nymph from palmetto scrub and another 

 nymph from grass ; Gainesville is represented by two males and one 

 female. August 16, in pine woods undergrowth and meadows. 



Clinocephalus pulcher Uchn and Hebard. 



This beautiful species is represented by an instructive series of fort y- 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMi' OF [JllIlC, 



seven males and sixteen females, which show that it is quite closely 

 related to C. degans. A series of twenty-one New Jersey specimens 

 of the latter species has been used for comparison and the differential 

 characters are here treated separately. 



Size. — This was the first character given in the diagnosis of pulcher, 

 and the series in hand shows that pulcher is almost invariably larger 

 than elegans, one male and one female alone being as small as the 

 largest representatives of their respective sexes in the elegans series. 

 The majority are as large, in general size, as the measurements of the 

 types of pulcher. 



Tegmina. — In none of the specimens examined are the tegmina 

 quite as long as in the types of pulcher, and in the majority, particularly 

 the east coast specimens, they are decidedly shorter, often no longer 

 proportionately than in elegans. 



Fastigium. — In the series of pulcher here studied the angle of the 

 fastigium is less acute than in elegans. Some variation exists in the 

 exact form of the angle, i.e., the divergence of the margins; but as a 

 whole, and in the vast majority of individuals, the fastigium is broader 

 and less acute in both sexes. 



Frontal casta. — In both sexes of pulcher the sulcation of the frontal 

 costa is less pronounced and more rounded than in elegans, some of the 

 Cedar Keys specimens having the sulcation very greatly reduced. 



Color. — From a type similar to that found in C. elegans all the forms 

 mentioned in the original description are contained in the series, in ad- 

 dition to which patterns there are several which suggest species of 

 Orphulella in the way the dorsum is washed with rose purple. . 



To summarize, it appears that Clinocephalus pulcher is a southern 

 representative of C. elegans, reaching its maximum of differentiation 

 in southern Florida (Miami), where, as far as present material goes, it is 

 a long-winged, or for the genus a long-winged, form. The specimens 

 here referred are, on this account, not fully typical, but they are nearer 

 to pulcher than to the small northern elegans. Gulf coast (Cedar Keys) 

 specimens are as a rule nearer to typical pulcher than east coast (Pablo 

 Beach and San Pablo) specimens, while interior specimens (Gainesville) 

 are rather curious in that the males are similar to Cedar Keys males 

 and the single available female is like east coast specimens. 



That elegans and pulcher should be considered distinct appears to be 

 the best way to handle the evidence the specimens give, the form of 

 the fastigium and the depth of the sulcation of the frontal costa being 

 "degree of difference" characters fully worthy of consideration, while 

 the greater size of pulcher, and the complex coloration which it very 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2S9 



frequently exhibits and which we have never seen in elegans, are to be 

 given due consideration. 



At Pablo Beach this species was abundant in a variety of localities, 

 in dry palmetto scrub and undergrowth in pine woods, in rank grass 

 growing in a wet drain along a railroad embankment and in open 

 marshy spots. Twenty-four males, eleven females and two nymphs 

 were taken at this locality, August 11 to 13. In pine woods at San 

 Pablo two females were taken on August 13, and in a similar situation 

 and at a wooded sink-hole two males and one female were taken 

 August 16 and 17 at Gainesville. Cedar Keys is represented by twenty- 

 one males, five females and two nymphs taken, August 15, in salt marsh 

 and in palmetto scrub in open pine woods. Here the species was more 

 abundant in salt marsh. 



CEDIPODIX.E. 

 Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister). 



A single female of this species from San Pablo, August 13, is in the 

 collection. It was taken in pine woods undergrowth. 



Arphia granulata Saussure. 



Five males, three females and one nymph of this species were taken 

 at Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, all captured in open palmetto 

 scrub except one from grass. 



There is a perceptible amount of variation in the arcuation of the 

 crest of the pronotum, the majority having it distinctly but slightly 

 arcuate, while the coloration of the caudal tibiae is also variable, a pale 

 disto-median annulus being present more or less distinctly in the 

 majority of the specimens. With two exceptions the specimens have 

 blackish brown predominating, the others being dull brownish. 

 Euooptolophus costalis (Scudder). 



This species enjoys a much wider distribution in the southeastern 

 States than has usually been supposed to be the case. The present 

 collection contains representatives from Jacksonville (one female, 

 August 11, on city lot), Pablo Beach (three males, four females, 

 August 11 and 12, palmetto scrub, grass and strand), Gainesville 

 (one male, August 17, palmetto scrub) and Cedar Keys (one male, 

 August 15). 



In coloration a great amount of variation is present, the shades of 

 brown ranging to seal brown, while the ochres are equally variable. 

 One female from San Pablo has the whole head and pronotum, the bet- 

 ter part of the caudal femora and patches on the distal portion of the 

 tegmina green, while the Jacksonville individual has some green 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



present on the tegmina, in the same position as on the above speci- 

 men. 



An examination of available material shows this species to range 

 along the Gulf coast from Texas to eastern Florida and south-central 

 Georgia, the similarity of color phases and general appearance having 

 caused in some instances its confusion with Chortophaga viridifasciata. 

 Specimens from the following localities can be assigned to this species : 

 Ocklockonee River and Thomasville, Thomas County, Ga. ; Miami, Dade 

 County, and Chokoloskee, Monroe County, Fla. Caudell has recorded 

 it from Key West and Sanford, while the records of Chortophaga viridi- 

 fasciata given by the authors^ also belong to this species, as a re-exami- 

 nation of the material show^s. Tampa is the only locality in the latter 

 paper additional to those mentioned above. 



Spharagemon boUi Scudder. 



Two males and four females from Pablo Beach in open palmetto 

 scrub, August 11 and 12, and a pair from Cedar Keys in palmetto 

 scrub in pine woods, August 15, represent this species. The variations 

 \isually noticed in any series of this species, i.e., shade of general color 

 and strength of tegminal and femoral bars, are hardly as great as in 

 northern specimens, and as a rule the specimens are more uniform than 

 Maryland and New Jersey individuals. 

 Spharagemon coUare wyomingianum (Thomas). 



A single female from grassland at Gainesville, August 17, represents 

 this race. The mottling of the head, pronotum, tegmina and femora 

 is less striking than in New Jersey specimens of this form. 



Soirtetica picta (Scudder). 



A series of four males and two females from Pablo Beach, August 

 11, 12 and 13, and two males from Gainesville, August 17, represent 

 this species. The Pablo Beach specimens were taken in a variety of 

 habitats — strand, open palmetto scrub and along railroad tracks — while 

 the Gainesville individuals are from palmetto scrub and grassland. 

 One Pablo Beach specimen is quite vmiform warm brown in color, the 

 pale tegminal markings and the dark femoral bars alone but moderately 

 indicated. The other extreme type, with great contrast between the 

 bone white markings and blackish brown areas, is represented by one 

 specimen from Pablo Beach, the remaining specimens presenting 

 degrees of coloration intermediate between the two extremes. This 

 species was noticed but not captured at Riverside, near Jacksonville. 



Psinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



This sand-loving species was taken at Jacksonville, one male, one 

 * Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 38. 




1907.] .NATURAL SCIEXCKS OF PIULADKLIMII A. 291 



female, August 11 and 20; Pablo Beach, three males, two females, one 

 nymph, August 11 and 12, and Gainesville, one male and three females, 

 August 16 and 17. At Jacksonville it was taken on a city lot and in a 

 sandy field near the city; at Pablo Beach on the strand and in open 

 palmetto scrub, and at Gainesville in palmetto scrub in pine woods and 

 in grassland. 



Trimerotropis oitrina Scudder. 



This widely ranging species is represented by material from Jackson- 

 ville and Pablo Beach. A single male from the former locality was 

 taken August 11 on a city lot, and six males and four females from 

 Pablo Beach were taken August 11,12 and 13 on the strand, in palmetto 

 scrub and along the railroad track. The strand was, however, the 

 place of greatest abundance. A male taken at Swansea, Lexington 

 County, S. C, August 10, in a sandy road is also referable to this species. 



LOCUSTIN.t. 

 Diotyophorus guttatus (Stoll). 



This curious grasshopper was numerous in tall weeds along the 

 railroad track a short distance west of Pablo Beach, five males and two 

 females being taken on August 13. The species was more abundant 

 than the collected material would indicate as the remains of dozens 

 of specimens were found along the track, the majority having been 

 crushed by the wheels of the trains. The section where they were 

 most mimerous was bordered on the sides by woodland, and in the 

 more open regions the species was not noticed. A female was captured 

 on the hotel porch at Pablo Beach, August 12, and a single female was 

 taken at Gainesville, August 16, in imdergrowth in pine woods. 

 Nymphs of this species were not noticed during the trip. 

 Stenacris chlorizans Walker. 



At Pablo Beach, in open marshy spots scattered over the palmetto 

 scrub, this species was numerous in grass of moderate height, and in a 

 swampy area of tall grass north of the railroad track it was equally at 

 home. In all situations its actions were similar to those noticed in the 

 vicinity of Thomasville,^ except that grass was used as a resting place 

 instead of cat-tails, which did not occur except in the more pronounced 

 portions of the wet areas. Nine males and five females were taken at 

 this locality, August 11. Three males and two females were taken at 

 Gainesville, August 17, in a marshy sink-hole in the pine woods. 



Over half the specimens collected have the lateral pale bars either 

 distinctly or slightly marked, while the dorsal aspect is strongly pur- 



» Vide Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, pp. 787, 78S. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



plish in one male and slightly so in several others. But four specimens 

 are of the full green coloration, i.e., without lateral pale bars or traces 

 of dorsal suffusion of purplish. 



Leptysma marginicoUis (Serville). 



This species was found at Pablo Beach associated with the preceding. 

 Two males, six females and four nymphs, representing two stages, were 

 collected on August 1 1 . The least developed of the nymphs was taken 

 in palmetto scrub. 



The lateral pale bars are strongly indicated in but foiu- of the adult 

 specimens. 

 Sohistoceroa amerioana (Drury). 



Two females taken at Gainesville, August 16 and 17, in grassland and 

 in undergrowth in pine woods, represent this species. 



Schistocerca damnifica (Saussure). 



Two males from Pablo Beach (August 11 and 12), one from San 

 Pablo (August 13) and another from Gainesville represent this species. 

 The Pablo Beach individuals were taken in open palmetto scrub and 

 the others in undergrowth in pine woods. 



An interesting fact concerning this species is that New Jersey 

 specimens have the tegmina and wings distinctly shorter than Florida 

 and Georgia specimens, the tegmina also with distal extremity broad 

 and blunter, while the antennae are usually longer and slenderer in the 

 southern specimens. This species was noticed but not captured at 

 Riverside, near Jacksonville. 

 ScMstocerca alutacea (Harris). 



The authors being of the opinion that S. alutacea (Harris) and 

 rubiginosa (Scudder) represent color phases of the same species, the 

 two types are here treated together. Fifteen males and ten females 

 are included in the collection, of which three males and one female 

 represent the alutacea type, the others being similar to northern 

 " rubigitiosa" individuals from the immediate coast, but with longer 

 tegmina and wings than representatives from points in the interior of 

 the pine barrens of New Jersey. 



The entire series except one male is from Pablo Beach, taken August 

 11 and 12, all from open palmetto scrub except one female of the 

 alutacea form taken in a swampy spot. Two males of the alutacea 

 type — in fact the only males of this type taken at PabloBeach — were 

 collected in the open palmetto scrub in association with ^'rubiginosa" 

 type. Gainesville is represented by one male of the alutacea type, 

 taken August 17 in grassland. 




I'JOT.] NATURAL .SCIKNCES OF rmLADIOLPHIA. 293 



The "ruhu/inofia" individuals from Pablo Beach are identical with 

 individuals from the coast of southern New Jersey, i.e., Cape May and 

 Anglesea. The form found in the interior of the New Jersey pine 

 rei>;ion possesses short tegmina and wings and, as a rule, is of smaller 

 size. If the recognition of alutacea and rubiginosa as distinct species is 

 conceded, it would also be necessary to sej^arate the pine land type 

 from the coast dune type. 

 Schistoceroa obscura (Fabricius). 



This form, which is separated from alutacea by the narrower incision 

 of the subgenital plate of the male and the color of the caudal limbs, 

 is represented by three males and five females. Of these six were 

 taken at Pablo Beach, August 11 and 12, in tall marsh grass and open 

 palmetto scrub; one female at Gainesville, August 16, in undergrowth 

 in pine woods, and another at Denmark, Bamberg County, S. C, 

 August 10, in high w^eeds. The males here referred to this species have 

 the subgenital plate with the lateral portions lapped over the incision, 

 while the caudal tibia) are decidedly blackish in all except in one female 

 which has them blackish purple. The bars on the dorsal face of the 

 caudal femora are indicated more or less distinctly in all the individuals, 

 but in no case are they prominent. The general base color of all the 

 females, and to a lesser extent of the males, is maroon, while the size 

 appears to be greater in the female than in the average of alutacea. 

 The coloration of the female of this species is very striking, but the males 

 do not present so rich an appearance. The real value of this form as 

 distinct from S. alutacea cannot l^e fully determined without the study 

 of a large amount of material, as the single character of the narrower 

 incision of the male subgenital plate alone can be relied upon, the greater 

 length of the antennae, size and coloration being variable in the allied 

 species. 



Two female specimens of this species from Maryland have also been 

 examined, one from Chestertown (August 17, 1898; E. G. Vanatta), 

 the other from Druid Hill Park, Baltimore (September, 1902; H. A. 

 Wenzel). These specimens extend the range of the species consider- 

 ably to the north of the former northern limit— North Carolina. 

 Gymnoscirtetes pusillus Scudder. 



This peculiar species is represented in the collection l)y a most inter- 

 esting series of 153 specimens taken as follows : Pablo Beach, August 

 11, 12 and 13, sixty-eight males, fifty-nine females, two nymphs; San 

 Pablo, August 13, seven males, four females; Gainesville, August 17, 

 foiu- males and seven females; Cedar Keys, August 15, one female. 



As a whole the series shows a considerable amount of variation in 

 20 




294 PROCEEDINGS OP' THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



size in both sexes, but the extremes of the female are proportionately 

 greater. The Gainesville series as a whole is slightly smaller than the 

 average of Pablo Beach and San Pablo individuals. The smallest 

 male and female measure 12.7 and 16.3 mm. in length of body; the 

 largest 15.3 and 22 mm., all measured individuals being from Pablo 

 Beach. 



The structural variations noticed in Georgia specimens of this species® 

 are also present in this series. The chief color variation in the dried 

 specimens is the depth and extent of the purplish-brown dorsal color. 



The habitats frequented bj' this species are open palmetto scrub, 

 open marsh, tall marsh grass, undergrowth in pine woods and grass- 

 land, by far the greater number of specimens being taken in the 

 palmetto scrub, and all situations are represented in the Pablo 

 Beach series. One specimen from the latter locality was the prey of an 

 asilid fly (Diogrmifes, probably winthemi Wied.) but little larger than 

 the Gynmoscirtetes itself. 



The localities at which this species has been taken, in addition to 

 those given above, are Jacksonville (type locality) and De Funiak 

 Springs, Fla., Way cross and Thomasville, Ga. 



Eotettix signatus Scudder. 



This beautiful species is represented by a series of ten males and four 

 females taken at Pablo Beach, August 11, in marshy spots scattered 

 over the palmetto scrub area back of the beach dunes. In size the 

 specimens are quite uniform, and as the female sex has not been 

 recorded the following measurements of it may be of some interest : 

 Length of body 26.5 mm.; length of pronotum 6.2; length of teg- 

 men 7.6; length of caudal femur 15.5. In color the little variation 

 that is appreciable is probably due to discoloration in drying. 



The only previous record of this species is the original reference, the 

 typical material being one male from East Florida. 



Eotettix palustris Morse. 



At Gainesville, in the rank vegetation around a flooded sink-hole in 

 pine woods, five males and five females of this species were taken on 

 August 16 and 17. In the female sex this species appears to be more 

 variable than E. signatus, but the coloration is, as far as available 

 material goes, constant except for a tendency to suffuse the whole 

 insect with pinkish-red. The extremes of the female sex measure 20.8 

 and 25 mm. in length of body; 5 and 5.2 in length of pronotum; 4 and 

 4.8 in length of tegmen, and 12.3 and 14.6 in length of caudal femur. 



« Vide Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. PhiUi., 1904, p. 789. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



The only previous record of this species is from Live Oak, Suwanee 



County, Fla. 



Hesperotettiz floridensis Morse. 



Two males and a female of this peculiar species were taken at Pablo 

 Beach, August 12 and 13, and a second female at San Pablo, August 13. 

 The Pablo Beach specimens were taken among grass in marshy spots 

 in the palmetto scrub, and in tall grass growing in a wet drain along 

 the railroad track. The San Pablo specimen was taken in undergrowth 

 in pine woods. 



The previous records of this species are from Hastings, St. John 

 County, Fla., and Waycross, Ware County, Ga. 



Melanoplus propinquus Scudder. 



This austral representative of M. femur-ruhrum is represented by a 

 series of thirty-three specimens taken at four localities, at all of which 

 the species was abundant in a variety of situations. The localities 

 and dates are: Jacksonville, August 11, two males, one female; Pablo 

 Beach, August 11-13, fourteen males, three females; Gainesville, 

 August 16, four males, two females; Cedar Keys, August 15, three 

 males, four females. At Jacksonville it was taken on a city lot, while 

 the Pablo Beach series was collected in palmetto scrub, open grassy 

 stretches and in tall marsh grass. 



Size is a very variable character in this species and does not appear 

 to be correlated with exact environment, one of the smallest and one 

 of the largest males both being from tall marsh grass at Pablo Beach. 

 Maximum and minimum measurements from Pablo Beach males are 

 as follows : 



Length of body, 22.2 mm. 17.6 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.1 " 4 " 



Length of tegmen, 20.2 " 15.8" 



Length of caudal femur, 13 " 10.7 " 



Melanoplus inops Scudder. 



A series of sixty-nine specimens represents this species, which was 

 taken at all the points where any amount of collecting was done. The 

 localities represented are: Pablo Beach, August 11-13, nine males, 

 nine females; San Pablo, August 12, four males, three females; Gaines- 

 ville, August 16 and 17, twenty males, fourteen females; Cedar Keys, 

 August 15, two males, seven females, one nymph. At Pablo Beach the 

 species was numerous in the open palmetto barrens; at San Pablo, 

 Gainesville and Cedar Keys it frequented the undergrowth in pine 

 woods, sometimes, particularly at Cedar Keys, among saw palmetto. 



The cerci of the males exhibit an appreciable amount of variation, and 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



types with these appendages more curved or straighter than figured 

 b}'' Scudder^ can be found in the series before us. In some individuals 

 the cerci are more robust, in others slenderer; in some the extreme 

 apex is slightly narrowed, in others obliquely truncate. The furcula 

 are distinct in the majority of the specimens; in some present as consid- 

 erably depressed trigonal lobes. Specimens with the furcula obsolete 

 as described in the type are in the minority. 



In size the specimens from the Atlantic side of the peninsula aver- 

 age larger than those from the Gulf coast and the interior pine land 

 (Gainesville), the San Pablo males also averaging as large as the largest 

 Pablo Beach representative of the same sex. As maximum and 

 minimum measurements may be of interest the extremes of each sex 

 are here given : 



Cedar Keys, San Pablo, Cedar Keys, Pablo Beach, 



In coloration a considerable amount of variation is present in the 

 tone of the general color and the presence or absence of femoral bars. 

 The dark dorsal sections of the lateral lobes of the pronotum vary 

 considerably in depth, being very prominent and solid in some speci- 

 mens and almost absent in others, which also holds true regarding the 

 two dark bars on the dorsal aspect of the caudal femora. These latter 

 are quite broad, strongly contrasted and obliquely disposed in a few 

 specimens, indicated in a less pronounced manner in the majority of 

 specimens and almost absent in others. These variations as well as 

 those in the tone of the general color are irrespective of locality or sex. 

 The general tone varies from a grayish tendency through umbers 

 to a burnt sienna type. 



This species was described from a single male labelled "Florida," 

 and up to this writing nothing additional has been published regarding 

 it. A female from Ijcmon City, Dade County, Fla., has also been 

 examined, the tegmina of which are somewhat smaller than those of 

 individuals from northern Florida. 



Melanoplus keeleri (Thomas). 



Thirteen specimens are referred to this trim species distributed as 

 follows: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, five males, one female; 



' Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, pi. XXII, fig. 4. 




HV^T.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF IMII I.ADKMMII A . 297 



San Pablo. August 13, two males, three females, one nymph; Gaines- 

 ville, August 16, one male. At Pablo Beach the species was found in 

 palmetto scrub, in tall marsh grass and along a sparsely covered rail- 

 road embankment, while at San Pablo and Gainesville it was found in 

 the undergrowth in pine woods. 



In color the series exhibits a moderate amount of variation, chiefly 

 in the shade of the base color, although the dark maculations also vary 

 somewhat in extent and intensity in proportion to the depth of the 

 base color, being weaker in the individuals with an ochraceous base and 

 well marked in those with a brown general tint. The caudal tibise 

 are scarlet vermilion in all the adults and glaucous in the single nymph. 



The form of the male cerci is as variable in the present series as in 

 the one from south Florida previously studied by the authors,* and the 

 extremes in the series of eight males are well marked and a number of 

 intermediates are also present, the latter constituting the greater part 

 of the lot. The keeleri extreme with the slender elongate accessory 

 lobe is on the other hand replaced by one with the accessory lobe 

 almost absent, represented in fact by an angulation, while the other 

 specimens when arranged according to their cereal character form a 

 complete transition from one to the other. 



On examining the original references of keeleri and deletor it is evident 

 that the claim made by Scudder^ that keeleri is smaller than deletor 

 is refuted by the measurements originally given from typical material. 

 Thomas gives the measurements of keeleri, a female, as follows : Length 

 of body 1.12 inches (28.4 mm.), length of tegmen .88 (22.3 mm.), 

 length of caudal femur .70 (17.7 mm.) ; while Scudder gives the follow- 

 ing for deletor: Length of body, male 23.5 mm., female 30.5; length of 

 tegmen, male 21, female 22; length of caudal femur, male 14.5, female 

 16. It would appear from the records and evidence of material that 

 this species is small toward the northern limit of its range (at least on 

 the Atlantic coast) in North Carolina, from which region it ranges along 

 the coastal plain and Gulf region to Texas and up the Mississippi to 

 Missouri, reaching in southern Florida its maximum of size. The 

 type of keeleri was from Florida and those of deletor from Texas, the 

 measurements of the original specimens of both species differing little, 

 being very much the same as found in the material studied in this con- 

 nection. On the other hand south Florida (Miami) specimens are 

 imiformly larger,'" an average pair measuring as follows : 



* Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 190.5, p. 40. 



» Proc. U. S. Nat. Mn.^., XX, p. 344. 



'" This is also tnio of Mckinoplus puer (vHde Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 p. 40), Miami individuals of which are very considerably larger than north and 

 central Florida representatives. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Length of body, 25 mm. 31 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 6 " 7.2 " 



Length of tegmen, 27 " 25.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, L5.2 '' 18.2 " 



As I imagine Scudder's measurements, in his Revision of the Me- 

 lanopH, were taken from the specimen of keeleri there figured, their 

 small size is due to the fact the individual was from North Carolina. 



On the evidence of the material examined I am compelled to con- 

 sider Melanoplus deletor Scudder a synonym of Melanoplus keeleri 

 (Thomas). 



Paroxya atlantioa Scudder. 



A series of forty- five specimens represent this species, the several 

 localities being as follows: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, twenty- 

 seven males, seven females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, six males, 

 two females ; Cedar Keys, August 15, one male, two females. At Pablo 

 Beach the species was numerous among the tall grasses growing in 

 extensive wet areas, drains and in the smaller marshy spots in the 

 palmetto scrub, while at Gainesville the vicinity of a sink-hole in the 

 pine woods was frequented. Salt marsh was the environment in 

 which it was found at Cedar Keys. 



There is an appreciable variation in size in the Pablo Beach series, 

 particularly in the males. In color there is considerable variation in 

 the degree of purity of the yellow color. The two Gainesville females 

 are deeper in color than the average Pablo Beach individuals, while 

 both Cedar Keys females and one of two from Gainesville have the 

 dorsum of the head, pronotum, caudal femora, face, limbs and ventral 

 portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum washed with, wine purple. 

 Paroxya floridiana (Thomas). 



At Pablo Beach this species was found frequenting tall grass growing 

 along a railroad drain, four males and two females being taken on 

 August 11. At Gainesville a single female was taken near a sink-hole 

 in undergrowth in pine woods on August 16. 



When compared with material from the northern portion of the 

 range of the species the Florida specimens are seen to be much larger, 

 and a comparison of material shows a steady increase in size as one 

 proceeds southward. In view of this fact comparative measurements 

 of specimens from several points within the range of the species are 

 here given. No effort has been made in the selection of specimens for 

 measurement to pick only those supporting the view expressed above, 

 as on the contrary the individuals used have been taken haphazard 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



299 



wiien more than a single pair was available from the locality which it 

 was desired to represent. 



Males. 



Length of body, 

 Length of antenna, 

 Length of pronotum, . 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur, 



Length of body, 

 Length of pronotum, . 

 Length of tegmen, 

 Length of caudal femur, 



Arner, 

 Ontario. 



20.6 mm. 

 13 " 

 4.3 " 

 n.2 " 

 12 " 



Hear Swamp, 



Burl.(V)., 



N.J. 



22 mm. 

 13.1 '' 

 4.5 " 



16 " 

 12 " 



Females. 



Arner, 

 Ontario, 



32 mm. 

 6.5 " 

 18.6 " 

 15.8 " 



Clemen ton, 

 N.J. 



33.2 mm. 



7 " 

 17.5 " 

 17 " 



Roslyn, 

 Va. 



24.2 mm. 

 16.5 " 

 5.2 " 

 16.4 " 

 14 " 



Roslyn, 

 Va. 



36.1 mm. 

 7.1 " 



18.2 " 

 18.2 " 



Pa})lo 



Hoach, 



Fla. 



32.5 mm. 

 19.5 " 

 6.8 " 

 22 " 

 17.5 *' 



Pablo 



Beach, 



Fla. 



44 mm. 



8.8 " 

 28.2 " 

 22.6 " 



Aptenopedes sphenarioides Scudder. 



This interesting species is represented in the material collected by a 

 series of eighty-six individuals. The localities represented are Pablo 

 Beach and Gainesville, the former by twenty-nine adult males, eleven 

 adult females, six male nymphs and eighteen female nymphs; the 

 latter by five adult males, one adult female, eleven male nymphs and 

 five female nymphs. At Pablo Beach it was taken August 11, 12 and 

 13, in dry palmetto scrub, undergrowth in open pine woods, in 

 grassland and in tall marsh grass. At Gainesville, on August 16 and 

 17, it was found chiefly in undergrowth in pine woods, the vicinity of a 

 sink-hole being inhabited by it. 



The nymphs represent two stages and show that the principal color 

 characters of the adults are indicated for a considerable time before 

 the individual is mature. 



The size of the adult specimens is quite uniform in the Pablo Beach 

 series, but the Gainesville males show a very appreciable amount of 

 variation, the extremes measuring 18 and 20.8 mm. in length of body. 



Aptenopedes aptera Scudder. 



A series of eighty-six specimens represent this interesting species. 

 Pablo Beach is represented by thirty-eight adult males, nineteen adult 

 females, four male nymphs and nine female nymphs taken August 11, 

 12 and 13. At this locality the species was found associated with A. 

 sphenarioides particularly in the palmetto scrub, and but slightly less 

 abundant than the latter species. At San Pablo, August 13, two males 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



and three females were taken in the undergrowth in the pine woods. 

 One adult male and five female nymphs were taken at Gainesville, 

 August 16 and 17, in pine woods undergrowth, chiefly scrub palmetto. 

 Cedar Keys is represented by two adult males, one male nymph and 

 two female nymphs, taken August 15 in pine woods undergrowth. 



Two stages are represented in the nymphs from Pablo Beach, only 

 one from the other localities. This species does not possess two 

 color phases differing markedly as in A. sphenarioides , most of the 

 variation observed being in the intensity of the median abdominal 

 bars and the lateral bars of the pronotum. The nymphs in several 

 instances have the abdominal bars strongly marked and almost wholly 

 washed with purplish pink. The Pablo Beach series of adults is quite 

 uniform in size, several females alone being conspicuous on account of 

 their smaller size. The single Gainesville male, however, is distinctly 

 larger than individuals of the same sex from any other locality, the 

 length of body being 21.3 mm., while the largest Pablo Beach male 

 measures 18.5. 



This species has been recorded previously in Florida from Fort 

 Reed, Orange County, Jacksonville, Duval County, and Miami, Dade 

 Coimty. A male from Gotha, Orange County, has also been examined. 



TETTIGONID^. 

 Arethaea phalangium (Scudder). 



A single female of this interesting species was taken in the under- 

 growth in pine woods at Gainesville, August 16. This specimen was 

 the only representative of the species noticed and constitutes the first 

 record of the same from Florida. The previous records are Georgia 

 (Scudder, Brunner), Thomasville, Ga. (Rehnand Hebard), and 

 Victoria, Texas (Caudell). 



Scudderia texensis Saussure and Pictet. 



This widely ranging species was taken at Pablo Beach and Gaines- 

 ville, twomales being taken August 13 at the former locality and one of 

 the same sex on Augvist 16 at the latter. 



The environment at the first locality was open grassland and the 

 slope of a railroad embankment and undergrowth in pine woods at the 

 second. 



Soudderia laticauda Brunner. 



At San Pablo a single female of this large form was taken August 13 

 in pine woods undergrowth. A series of three males and four females 

 taken August 16 at Gainesville in a similar environment are also 

 referred to this species. The Gainesville males show close relation- 




UH)7.] XATruAi. sriKX(i:s of i'hiladi:lphia. 301 



ship in the form of tlie genitaha to the figure of »S. curvicauda given by 

 ScikUUm-, hut the females are unquestionably laticauda by the size and 

 shape of the ovijiositor. The males are larger than northern speci- 

 mens of ctirvicauda, agreeing in this respect with the associated Gaines- 

 ville females and also with the measurements given by the describer. 

 Soudderia cuneata Morse. 



A single female from Pablo Beach, August 11, in palmetto scrub, 

 represents this species. A female from Miami has been used for 

 comparison and the Pablo Beach individual differs only in its slightly 

 smaller size. 



The range of this species is now known to be from Alabama and 

 southern Georgia (Thomasville) south to southern Florida (Miami). 



Symmetropleara modesta Brunner. 



This species, previously known only from the male tj^pe from 

 "Carolina" and a female specimen from North Carolina, is represented 

 by a male individual taken from floating water hyacinth {Piaropus 

 crassipes) in the St. John's River by the wharves of Palatka, on August 

 18. No other specimen of the species was noticed. 



When compared with Brunner's original description the Palatka 

 male is slightly larger than the type, and also differs in having the 

 margins of the tympanum and the caudal margin of the tegmina lined 

 with ochraceous, in addition to the angles of the pronotum mentioned 

 in the original description. The apices of the tegmina are slightly and 

 the exposed portions of the wings are strongly washed with brownish. 



Amblyoorypha floridana Rehn and Hebard. 



A series of two males and six females represents this species, the 

 original basis of which w^as chiefly damaged material. With the 

 material in this series more detailed comparisons can be made with A. 

 ohlongifolia, to which floridana is closely allied. 



The less curved form and rather smaller size of the ovipositor will 

 serve to separate the female of floridana from that of oblongijolia, while 

 in the male the tympanum is distinctly narrower, both actually and 

 proportionally, than in ohlongifolia. The lateral angles of the disk 

 of the pronotum are as a rule by no means as sharply rectangulate as in 

 ohlongifolia and the disk itself is broader caudad in the latter species. 

 From the evidence in hand it appears that floridana represents the 

 southern extreme of ohlongifolia, as individuals from Thomasville, 

 Ga., are as near floridana as ohlongifolia, the ovipositor being more 

 curved and larger and the pronotal angles more distinct than in flori- 

 dana, but the narrower tympanum and the comparatively narrower 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



caudal section of the pronotal disk show relationship to the same 

 species." In no one of the characters, however, is an extreme repre- 

 sented, but an intermediate position is clearly recognizable. Thus 

 from the evidence in hand true floridana is apparently restricted to 

 Florida, grading north over an undetermined area into true oblongifolia, 

 the type locality of which is Pennsylvania. 



The series in this collection was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11 

 and 13, two males, two females; San Pablo, August 13, one male, and 

 Gainesville, August 16, three females. At Pablo Beach individuals 

 were taken in salt marsh, swampland and in tall bushes on the dunes, 

 and at San Pablo and Gainesville in undergrowth in pine woods. 



The San Pablo individual is in the pinkish phase of coloration. 

 Other individuals of A. oblongifolia in this type of coloration in the 

 Academy collection are from Absecon, N. J., and Wood's Hole, Mass. 



Amblycorypha ulileri Stai. 



A single male of this species was taken at Gainesville, August 16, in 

 undergrowth in pine woods. 



This is the first Florida record of the species, 



Cyrtophyllus (Lea) floridensis Beutenmuller. 



This interesting katydid was found to be abundant in certain bushes 

 about eight to ten feet high growing on the land face of the dunes 

 at Pablo Beach. On August 12 six males and on August 13 nine males 

 were captured. They were taken wholly with the aid of their song 

 which began shortlj^ before evening. The song, as was stated by 

 Beutenmuller, is distinctly different from that of C. perspicillatus , 

 being much lower, decidedly weaker and consisting of single notes 

 separated by regular intervals. 



The generic name Lea proposed by CaudelP- is not applied by us, as 

 the characters assigned to the genus do not appear to the authors to be 

 of sufficient weight to have generic value, although floridensis is to our 

 mind worthy of being considered subgenerically distinct from C. 

 perspicillatus. 



The color of the living individuals was essentially as in the dried 

 specimens, which were stuffed in the field and have lost but little in 

 consequence. The general dorsal color is bice green, becoming pale 

 green on the limbs and olive-buff on the head and pronotum, the eyes 

 cinnamon and the lateral margins of the disk of the pronotum and the 

 tympanal fields of the tegmina raw umber. The thickened anal vein 



>i Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 795. 



'2 Vide Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XIV, pp. 34 and 42. 




1907.] XATrUAI. SCIF.XCRS OF PIIILADKLFHIA. 303 



of the male teiiiniiui aiul the sutural margins of the same are yellowish 

 or light grecuisli. 



Ill size the species exhibits a considerable amount of individual 

 variation, and the measurements of the extremes of the series of males 

 and also of a female specimen are here given : 



Length of bodv 30 mm. 40 mm. 38.5 mm. 



Length of proriotum 6.4 " 7.5 " 7.5 " 



Width of caudal nuuiihi of the 



pronotum 6.3 " 7 " 6.8 " 



Length of tegmen 32 " 35 " 34.2 " 



Length of caudal fenun-, . . . 23.1 " 24.2 " 26 " 



Length of ovipositor, .... 18.2 " 



In addition to the fifteen Pablo Beach males a single female, of which 

 the measurements are given above, from St. Augustine (C. W. Johnson) 

 has been examined. The range of the species is now known to extend 

 in a narrow strip along the coast from Pablo Beach, Duval County, to 

 the vicinity of Grant, Brevard County, Fla. 



Belocephalus subapterus Scudder. 



A series of eleven specimens, one adult male, three adult females and 

 seven immature individuals, represent this species. At Pablo Beach 

 it was found on August 11, 12 and 13, in palmetto scrub and in low 

 growth along the railroad track, three of the adults being taken at 

 that locality. At San Pablo, August 13, one immature individual 

 was taken in pine woods undergrowth. The remaining specimens 

 were taken at Gainesville, August 16, in pine woods undergrowth. All 

 the adults taken were in the green phase of coloration. The range of 

 this species now extends from Thomasville, Ga., to Miami and Choko- 

 loskee, southern Florida, specimens having also been recorded from 

 Fort Reed, Orange County, Fla., in addition to the localities given 

 above. 



Conocephalus retusus Scudder. 



At St. Augustine a series of four males and two females of this species, 

 were taken from the hedges of a garden on the evening of August 19. 



WTien compared with the northern Conocephalus atlanticus Bruner. 

 this species is seen to differ only in the somewhat greater general size 

 and in the longer caudal limbs. Probably atlanticus will prove to be 

 merely a smaller northern form of retusus, as a specimen from Roslyn^ 

 Alexandria County, Va. (October 22, 1900; J. A. G. Rehn), occupies 

 an intermediate position. Typical females of the two forms and the 

 Roslyn specimen measure as follows : 




304 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Length of body, 

 Length of pronotum, . 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur. 

 Length of ovipositor, . 



Conocephalus mexicanus Saussure. 



A single female of this species was taken at Cedar Keys, August 15. 

 The caudal femora are slightly longer than in a Tampa specimen, 

 but otherwise the two are inseparable. 



Conocephalus crepitans Scudder. 



A single female of this species was taken at Warchard, Levy County, 

 August 14, during a brief stop of the train. It was in undergrowth in 

 the pine woods close to the railroad track. 



When compared with a female of the species from Lincoln, Neb., 

 the Florida specimen differs only in the slightly longer legs and ovi- 

 positor, being identical in all other characters. The measurements of 

 the two specimens are as follows : 



Lincoln, Warchard, 



Neb. Fla. 



Length of body, 36.5 mm. 36 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 8.5 " 8.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 55 '' 59.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 28.8 " 34.8 " 



Length of ovipositor, 32.8 " 36.2 " 



The capture of this species in Florida carries its range a considerable 

 distance east, the previously known range extending from Nebraska and 

 Iowa south to Texas and Arkansas. 



Conocephalus melanorhinus n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Cedar Keys, Levy County, Fla., August 12, 1905. (Hebard 

 and Rehn.) 



Allied to C. rohustus Scudder and lyristcs Rehn and Hebard, differing 

 from the former in the blunter fastigium which is almost wholly black 

 ventrad, the narrower disk of the pronotum, the straighter tegmina 

 and the slightly deeper and considerably shorter ovipositor. From 

 lyristes the new species differs in the larger size, the form of the fasti- 

 gium, the more robust general form and the shorter ovipositor. 



Size rather large; form elongate, rather slender. Head with the 

 fastigium hardly elevated dorsad of the level of the occiput; fastigium 




l[Kf, 



XATUK.VL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



305 



distinctly longer'-' than the greatest width, apex blunt, sulitruncate, 

 ventral tooth separated from the frontal fa,stigiuni; angle of the face 

 very considerable; eyes little prominent, slightly flattened; antenna? 

 rather short, the length slightly exceeding that of the caudal femora. 

 Pronotum rugoso-punctate, the dorsum deplanate, the lateral angles 

 distinct caudad but not sharp ; cephalic margin of the disk with a very 

 slight median emargination, caudal margin of the disk moderately 

 arcuate, lateral margins of the disk slightly diverging caudad; lateral 

 lobes of the pronotvmi distinctly longer than deep, cephalic margin 

 considerably oblique, caudal margin with a deep rectangulate sinus 

 ventrad of which the margin is strongly rounded, ventral margin obtuse- 



Fig. 1. — Conocephaliis tnelanorhinus n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X li-) 



angulate. Tegmina elongate, exceeding the tips of the caudal femora 

 by about the length of the head and pronotum together, narrow, apex 

 narrowly rounded. Abdomen with the terminal dorsal abdominal 

 segment produced into a pair of spinose processes between which the 

 segment is deeply cleft; supra-anal plate trigonal, produced mesad 

 into a rather long finger-like process ; styles rather short, thick, acute, 

 slightly arcuate; ovipositor slightly shorter than the caudal femora, 

 straight, rather broad and subequal, apex acute; subgenital plate 

 moderately produced, apical margin emarginato-truncate. Cephalic 

 limbs of medium build. Caudal femora rather slender, the proximal 

 half moderately inflated, externo- ventral margin with two to four 

 spines, interno-ventral margin with six to seven spines ; caudal tibise 

 more strongly spined on the dorsal than on the ventral margins ; 

 caudal tarsi quite elongate and slender. 



General color apple green approaching oil green in areas on the 

 dorsum of the fastigium and margins of the pronotum, lateral as well 

 as dorsal. Fastigium marked laterad with maize yellow, ventral as- 

 pect of the fastigium black, oil green caudad; eyes ochraceous-buif ; 



'^ Measurement taken from the interantennal space. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



antennae burnt carmine, pale and weak proximad. R'onotum with 



the lateral angles marked with maize yellow. Caudal tibise vina- 



ceous pale on the angles; tarsi of all the limbs with 



\r\ff the lateral portions dull purplish brown, the median 



ftl n^ area buff. Ovipositor ochraceous as is also the abdomen, 



y V distal two-thirds oil green, touched with brown at the 



apex, the median suture lined with black for the greater 



portion of its length. 



Fig. 2. — Cono- 



Mcosurcmcnts. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), . 35 mm. 



'cephalusme- Length of pronotum, S " 



lanorhinus Greatest caudal width of disk of pronotum, . 4.5 '' 



ii.sp. Dorsal Length of tegmen, 48 " 



Length of caudal femur 27 '* 



Length of ovipositor, 22.8 " 



viewofhead 

 and prono- 

 tum. (X 2.) 



The type of this species is the only specimen seen. 

 Orohelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister). 



This species is represented by seven male individuals taken at five 

 localities: Jacksonville, August 10 and 11, two taken from high bushes 

 in city park; Pablo Beach, August 12, two from wet grassy spots in 

 scrub palmetto barrens ; San Pablo. August 13, one from undergrowth in 

 pine woods; Gainesville, August 17, one from grassy margin of sink- 

 hole; Cedar Keys, August 15, one from salt marsh. 



In size some variation is noticed, chiefly in the length of the tegmina 

 and wings and in the length of the caudal femora. The tegmen and 

 wing variation is quite considerable, the extremes for the length of the 

 exposed combined tegmina and wings being 27 and 34.5 mm. 



Orchelimum nitidum Redtenbacher.i* 



Two males of this species were taken at Jacksonville, August 11, and 

 Palatka, August 19. In both cases the specimens were taken in the 

 city. 



The absolute identification of Redtenbacher's species is attended 

 with considerable difficulty, as the species here described as 0. molossum 

 is in many respects very closely allied. The present authors previously 

 confused these two forms and recorded both as 0. nitidum}^ How- 



'^ Attempts to determine material by the presence or absence of spines on the 

 ventral surface of the caudal femora having proved futile, we are compelled to 

 abandon this character, which in our opinion is generally too indi\'idual in its 

 variations to be diagnostic in this genus. The forms here treated have been 

 recognized chiefly by characters of the genitaha of both sexes, which are more 

 stable and of sufficient diversity to separate the species with the least difficulty. 



'5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 796. (ThomasAalle, Ga.) 




iDu; 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PlIILADELPIIIA. 



307 



ever, the form of the male cerci is the one character which will enable 

 the student to recognize the two types with certainty 

 and celerity. Redtenbacher's description says, "Cerci 

 male subacuminati, vix compressi," and this clearly 

 applies to the form for which his name is here used, (). 

 molossum having the cerci depressed and not even slightly 

 compressed. The cercus of 0. nitidum is very slightly 

 compressed in the distal half with a slight dorsal keel, 

 and a figure is here given to fix the species with cer- 

 tainty. Cereal and ovipositor peculiarities are unques- 

 tionably among the chief characters to be used in 

 separating the species of Orchelimum. 



Measurements of the specimen, of which a cercus is 

 figured, are as follows: 



Fig. li.-Orchel- 

 imum niti- 

 dum R e ci- 

 te nbacher. 

 Dorsal \^ew 

 of apex of 

 male abdo- 

 men. (X 4.) 



Length of body 22.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5.8 " 



Length of tegmen, 23.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 20.2 " 



The range of this species now includes Georgia and Florida. 

 Orchelimum molossum n. sp. 



Tj^pcs : o^ ; Pablo Beach, Duval County, Fla., August 13, 1905. Q ; 

 Gainesville, Alachua Co., Fla., August 16, 1905. (Hebard 

 and Rehn.) 



Closely allied to 0. nitidum, but differing in the slightly 

 heavier fastigium, the smaller pronotum with narrowt r 

 lateral lobes, the smaller and more delicate tympanum 

 of the male tegmina, the smaller, slightly depressed cerci, 

 which have the tooth about median, and the slightly 

 deeper emargination of the subgenital plate of the male. 



Size moderately large (for the germs); form rather 

 slender. Head rather broad; fastigium moderately 

 broad, slightly elevated and rounded dorso-ventrad. 

 apex more rounded transversely in the male than in the 

 female, a fine median longitudinal depression present 

 on the apex in both sexes, ventral portion narrowed and 

 in contact with the fastigium of the face; eyes rather 

 large, moderately prominent; antennae extremely long, 

 Pronotum with the dorsum flattened, caudal transverse 

 sulcus impressed; cephalic margin of the disk sub- 

 truncate, caudal margin arcuate, lateral angles distinct 

 only on the caudal lobe and there well rounded; lateral 



Fig. A.-Orchel- 

 irmim molos- 

 sum n. sp. 

 Dorsal view 

 of head, pro- 

 notum and 

 tympanum 

 of male type. 

 ( X 3.) • 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JunC, 



lobe about as deep as long, the ventral margin subrectangulate, 

 elytral sinus shallow and broad, the margin evenly arcuate ventrad of 

 the same, convex callosity well defined in both sexes. Tegmina elon- 

 gate, slightly tapering, apex rounded ; tympanum rather light, slightly 

 longer than wide. Wings projecting beyond the tegmina by less than 

 the length of the head, apex narrowly rectangulate. Terminal dorsal 

 abdominal segment of the male with two median rounded lobes 

 separated by a deep rounded emargination; cerci straight except 



Fig. 5. — Orchelimum molosstwi n. sp. Fig. 6. — Orchelimum molossum n. sp. 

 Dorsal \iew of male appendages. Lateral view of o\'ipositor. (X 2.) 



(X 5). 



for a mesad bend at the middle, the proximal half robust, the 

 distal portion tapering, acute, tooth on the internal face on the 

 same plane as the cercus, stout, slightly recurved, acute; subgenital 

 plate of the male ample, scoop-like, reaching about to the teeth of the 

 cerci, distal margin rectangulate-emarginate, provided laterad with 

 distinct but rather short styles. Supra-anal plate of the female 

 acute-trigonal; ovipositor rather short, falciform, in length slightly 

 shorter than the head and pronotum together, equal in width in the 

 proximal half, tapering in the distal half, apex acute, the margins of 

 the apex wdth slight traces of serrations ; subgenital plate sjiort, buUate, 

 the extreme apex very slightly rectangulate-emarginate. Cephalic 

 and median limbs moderately robust. Caudal femora about equal to 

 three-fourths (cJ^) or four-fifths ( 9 ) of the tegminal length, strongly 

 bullate in the proximal half, externo-ventral margin armed with from 

 two to five spines. 



General color pale apple green, washed on the dorsum with tawnj- 

 ochraceous, a weak sub-lyrate pattern on the pronotal disk of the latter 

 color, while the principal vein of the tympanum is also marked with 

 it. Eyes of the male raw umber, of the female clove brown. Ovi- 

 positor greenish brown, male appendages ochraceous. 



Measurements. 



c? 9 



Length of body, 21.5 mm. 21.8 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 5.6 " 



Length of tegnien, 24.5 " 25 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.6 " 20.8 " 



Length of ovipositor,^** S " 



18 Ventral length. 




VJO, .] NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



While this species is closely related to 0. nitidum, it is not possible 

 to refer the specimens here placed under the new form to the older 

 species, and at the same time take proper cognizance of differences 

 in the jrcnitalia. As far as our available material goes the two forms 

 are perfectly distinct, and for this reason it appears best to regai-d 

 them for the present at least as separate species. 



Three males and one female from Florida have been examined in 

 addition to the types. One male is paratypic with the type of that 

 sex, and the remaining individuals are paratypic with the female 

 (August 16 and 17). At Pablo Beach the species was found in grass 

 along railroad tracks, and at Gainesville it was taken in fields in the 

 undergi'owth of pine woods around a sink-hole. The species also 

 ranges into southern Georgia at Thomasville (vide supra). 



Such variation as exists in size in the specimens examined is compara- 

 tively slight, and in color the chief variation is in the intensity of the 

 paired brown bars on the pronotum. The latter feature varies from 

 a form with a pair of distinct slightly constricted, sublyrate bars to one 

 in which they are only faintly suggested. In but one case, however, 

 do they extend upon the metazona. 



Experience in the field demonstrated the bulldog-like tenacity with 

 which this species retains its grip when on the defensive, and the 

 specific name has been given for this reason. In one case its hold was 

 so strong that the head was torn from the body without the jaws 

 relaxing their grip. 

 Orchelimum fidicinium n. sp. 



Types : o ' and ? ; Cedar Keys, Levy County, Fla., August 15, 1905. 

 (Hebard and Rehn.) 



Allied to 0. delicatum and gladiator I^runer from Nebraska and 

 Indiana, but differing from the former in the longer cerci of the male, 

 the shorter subgenital plate of the same sex, and the slightly 

 shorter and slenderer ovipositor. From gladiator it differs in the much 

 slenderer ovipositor, longer limbs, shorter subgenital plate of the male 

 and the heavier and longer male cerci. 



Size small (for the genus) ; form elongate. Head Mith the fastigium 

 not appreciably elevated above the level of the occiput; fastigium 

 rather long, narrow, subequal, the apex rotundato- truncate when 

 viewed dorsad, moderately rounded when viewed laterad, fastigium 

 of the face in contact with that of the vertex; eyes rather large, 

 somewhat prominent when viewed dorsad ; antennae about three times 

 the length of the body. Pronotum with the disk but little flattened; 

 cephalic margin slightly emarginato-truncate, caudal margin moder- 

 21 




310 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June^ 



ately arciiate, no lateral shoulders present on the prozona, present 

 but rounded on the metazona, transverse sulci moderately distinct ; 



lateral lobes very slightly 

 longer than deep, the hu- 

 meral sinus shallow and 

 broad, ventral margin ob- 

 tuse-angulate, convex cal- 

 losity moderately distinct. 

 Tegmina slightly longer than 

 the body, their apices reach- 

 ing to the genicular extrem- 

 ity of the caudal femora, 

 narrow, apex narrowly 

 rounded; tympanum of the 

 male rather small and weak. 

 Wings exceeding the closed 

 tegmina by about the length 

 of the head . Terminal dorsal 

 abdominal segment of the 

 male very narrowly divided 

 mesad ; cerci nearly straight, 

 rol^ust in the distal half, 

 apical half tapering, im- 

 mediate apex blunt, tooth 

 placed inter no - ventrad,. 

 rather long but not stout, 

 recurved, acute; subgenital 

 plate hardly surpassing the 

 base of the cereal tooth, 

 moderately inflated, subcari- 

 nate caudo-laterad, caudal 

 short. Supra-anal plate of 



Fig. 7. 



-OrcheJiwvm fidicinkwi n. sp. Dorsal 

 view of male type. ( X3.) 



margin obtuse-angulate, styles very 



Fig. S. — Orchellmum fidicinium n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of apex of male abdo- 

 men. (X 6.) 



Fig. 9. — OrcheUmum fidicinium n. sp.. 

 Lateral \-iew of ovipositor. (X 3.). 




1007.] XATI'RAL SCIENCES OF PIIII. A DKI.IMIIA . 311 



the female lanceolate; styles slightly arcuate, tapering; ovipositor 

 slightly less than twice as long as the head and pronotum together^ 

 slightly falcate, moderately broad and subequal in the proximal half,, 

 tapering distad to the acute apex; subgenital plate of the female 

 trigonal, somewhat inflated, the narrow apical portion subtruncate. 

 Caudal femora consideral)ly inflated proximad, ventral margins 

 unarmed. 



General color varying from buff to tawny olive, distinctly greenish 

 in life, the lateral aspects of the head, pronotum and pleura pale olive- 

 buff in the dried specimen. Eyes broccoli brown; antennae burnt 

 miiber becoming drab distad ; a broad median bar from the fastigium 

 to the caudal section of the pronotal disk burnt umber, broken and 

 irregular in the female; caudal tibia? with the dorsal face olive. 



Measurements. 



d 9 



Length of body, 18.5 mm. 16 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.8 " 4 " 



Length of tegmen 20 " 21 " 



Length of caudal femur, 16 " 16.8 " 



Length of ovipositor, 10 '* 



A paratypic series of ten males and nine females have also been 

 examined, as well as a single male taken at Gainesville (August 16; 

 in pine woods). The series exhibits some slight variation in size and 

 considerable in the intensity of the broad median bar on the head and 

 pronotum. In several specimens the latter is hardly indicated. The 

 amount of variation in the shape of the ovipositor is very slight, and 

 practical^ no variation is noticed in the form of the male cerci. 



This species was found in the flooded salt marsh among tall grasses. 

 The individuals displayed great agility in eluding capture, using both 

 their leaping and flying power, tho.^e taken being secured chiefly by 

 beating. 



Orchelimum militare n. .^ip. 



Types: cJ' and 9 ; Gainesville, Alachua County, Fla., August 17, 

 1905. (Hebard and Rehn.) 



Allied to 0. delicatmn Bruner and 0. vokmtum McNeill, differing from 

 l)(»th in the very long ovipositor and peculiar cerci. From ddicatinn it 

 also differs in the larger size and the shorter su])genital plate of the male. 



Size medium (for the genus), form moderately slender. Head with 

 the fastigium very slightly elevated, the fastigium longer than l)road 

 and narrower proximad than distad, apex subtruncate when viewed 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



dorsad, rather narrowly rounded when viewed laterad, the apex some- 

 times with, a fine impressed medio-longitiidinal hne, fastigium of the 

 face in contact with the fastigium of the vertex; eyes rather large, 

 moderately prominent; antennse at least three and a half times the 

 length of the body. Pronotum with the disk not strongly flattened ; 

 cephalic margin subtruncate, caudal margin moderately arcuate; 

 lateral shoulders present only on the metazona and there rounded, 

 transverse sulci indicated but not deeply impressed ; lateral lobes about 

 as deep as long, cephalic margin ol)tuse-angulate, ventral margin sub- 

 rectangulate, humeral sinus shallow and broad, convex callosity 

 elliptical, distinct. Tegmina exceeding the genicular extremity of the 

 caudal femora by nearly the length of the head, narrow, apex rounded 

 on the costal margin, subtruncate on the sutural margin; tympanum 

 of the male moderately large, slightly longer than the pronotum. 



Fig. 10. — Orchelimum militare n. sp. Fig. 11. — Orclielimum militare n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of apex of male abdo- Lateral \dew of ovipositor. (X 2.) 



men. (X 4.) 



Wings extending beyond the tegmina by nearly the length of the 

 head. Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male narrowly 

 divided for nearly half its length ; cerci elongate wdth a median obtuse 

 angvilation, the proximal half being robust and subcylindrical, the 

 distal half being tapering, slightly falcate and distinctly depressed, 

 the apex rather blunt, tooth on the internal margin mesad, directed 

 strongly proximad, stout at the base, tapering, slightly curved; sub- 

 genital plate of the male cymbiform, keeled, hardly reaching to the 

 middle of the cerci, the apical margin subrectangulate emarginate, 

 styles short and tapering. Ovipositor over twice as long as the head 

 and pronotum together, straight and subequal in the proximal two- 

 thirds, tapering and very slightly curved dorsad in the apical third, 

 apex acute and with its margins very faintl}^ crenulate; subgenital 

 plate rather short and broad, bullate, the immediate apex subtrun- 

 cate. Caudal femora with the proximal half moderately inflated, in 

 length about equal to two-thirds that of the tegmina, the external 

 face with traces of a loricate pattern, ventral margins unarmed or 

 Avith a single spine. 



General color clay-color, distinctly green in life, some traces of the 




Ilt07.] NATURAL SCIENXES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



original color rcnuiiiiinsj;; head varying from ochraceous to brick red, 

 particularly along the median area of the face; dorsum of the pronotum 

 and head marked more or less distinctly with a pair of fine ferruginous 

 lines diverging caudad; eyes drab; antenna? raw umljer finely annulate 

 with Vandyke brown, becoming uniform very dark brown distad. 



Measuretnents. 



Length of body, 22 mm. 18 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.6" 4.5" 



Length of tegmen 25.5 " 25.4 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17.8 " 17.5 " 



Length of ovipositor 15.2 " 



A single paratypic female has been examined in addition to the 

 types. It is very slightly larger than the female type, but otherwise 

 inseparable. 



The three specimens secured were taken from a marsh}' sink-hole in 

 pine woods. 



Xiphidion fasciatum De Geer. 



A series of twenty-four individuals represent this widely distributed 

 form, taken as follows: Jacksonville, August 11, two males, three 

 females; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, three males, four females; 

 Cedar Keys, August 15, three males, eight females; Fairfax. Barnwell 

 County, S. C, August 10, one male. 



The environments represented are a city lot (Jacksonville), under- 

 growth in pine woods and sink-hole in the same (Gainesville), and open 

 marsh (Cedar Keys). 



Xiphidion nigropleurum Hruner. 



Sixteen individuals are referred tentatively to this species, as there 

 exists a possibility that one or more distinct species are included in the 

 Florida material. The localities represented are: Gainesville, August 

 16, one female; Pal^lo Beach, August 11, one female; Cedar Keys, 

 August 15, seven males, seven females. 



\\lien compared with Nebraska and Indiana males of undoubted 

 nigropleurum the Cedar Keys individuals are as a rule larger; all belong 

 to the brown form described by Blatchley," with the pronotum very 

 dark mesad. The tegmina are as rule somewhat shorter than in 

 typical nigropleurum males and the cerci are slenderer and slightly 

 more produced, ^'ariability in the divergence of the apices of the 



^'' Orth. nf Iml{nna,p. 376. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J line, 



latter is a very distinct feature, but otherwise the general form of the 

 cercus is much the same in all the seven males. 



The Florida females present very puzzling degrees of variation in the 

 curve of the ovipositor. When compared with two Indiana females 

 of true nigropleurum the ovipositor is seen to be slightly deeper in all 

 the Florida specimens, straight as in the Indiana individuals in one 

 Florida representative, very slightly curved dorsad at the apex in 

 three and gently but appreciably curved in the remaining five. These 

 types seem to shade one into the other, although the individuals with 

 the ovipositor curved average somewhat larger, one, however, being 

 no larger than in the opposite category. The tegmina vary from 

 half the abdominal length to equal length, the latter seen only in one 

 specimen. The variation in the ovipositor is irrespective of locality, 

 both extremes having been taken at Cedar Keys. Until more evidence 

 is in hand to prove the two extremes distinct, we are under the necessity 

 of considering them purely variations within specific limits, and the 

 same is true with the differences noted between the typical nigropleu- 

 rum and the Florida forms or variants. 



At Gainesville this species was taken in pine woods, and at Cedar 

 Keys in salt marsh grass, where specimens were extremely abundant 

 and although very active easily taken with the net. 



The range of this species is here carried south from the Ohio Valley 

 and New York State. 

 Odontoxiphidium apterum Morse. 



A series of 101 specimens represents this very distinct genus and 

 species, taken at the following localities: Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 

 and 13, thirty-five males, thirty-seven females; San Pablo, August 

 13, one male; Gainesville, August 16, twelve males, twelve females; 

 Cedar Keys, August 15, three males, one female. Several specimens 

 from each locality except San Pablo are immature, in some cases 

 apparently two stages before the mature condition. 



In size there is considerable variation, as previously evidenced ]jy 

 the measurements in the original description, while the color variations 

 are almost wholly in the intensity of the median dark bar and in the 

 extent of pale brown suffusion on the limbs. 



A variety of environments are frequented by this species, ranging 

 from dry palmetto scrub and undergrowth in pine woods to grass- 

 land, tall fresh marsh grass and salt marsh. The species was found 

 most plentiful in the low parts of the open palmetto scrub at Pablo 

 Beach. The insects were noticed to prefer the damp locations, 

 but none were found in true marshlands. At Gainesville, also, 




1907.] NATL'H.VL 8CIEN-CES OF PITILADELnilA. 315 



specimens were abuiulant in the low places in the pine woods where 

 the wire-grass was most luxuriant. Individuals were usually suffi- 

 ciently inactive to be caught easily, with or without a net. 



The range of this species now extends from Thomasville, Thomas 

 County, and Brunswick, Glynn County, Ga., to Cedar Keys, Levy 

 County, and Sanford, Orange County, Fla. 



Atlanticus gibbosus ScuiMer. 



Four adults, three males and one female, taken at Pablo Beach, 

 August 11 and 14, represent this species. The individuals collected 

 "svere taken in palmetto scrub and salt marsh and the species was not 

 common. 



As the information regarding this species is very meagre, measure- 

 ments of an individual of each sex are here given. 



Pablo Beach, Pablo Beach, 

 Aug. 11,1 90.5. Aug. 1 1 , 1905 . 



& 9 



Length of body, 29 mm. 28 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 13 " 12.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 32.2 " 34.5 " 



Length of ovipositor, 29.2 " 



This species possesses greater strength in the jaws than any other 

 North American orthopterous insect known to us. A single bite can 

 easily pierce the cuticle and cause the blood to flow. In consequence 

 the field collector quickly acquires a wholesome respect for their 

 defensive a]3ilities. Individuals showed surprising activity in escaping 

 when alarmed by seeking hiding places under the scrub palmettoes, to 

 which they hurried with seeming ungainliness but nevertheless con- 

 siderable speed. 



GRYLLID^. 

 Mogoplistes slossoni Scudder. 



A single male individual was found August 12, in a bed at the hotel 

 at Pablo Beach where the authors stayed. The specimen is consider- 

 ably rubbed and in consequence the silvery scales of the perfect insect 

 are almost entirely gone. The antennae show no signs of annulations, 

 but the limbs are supplied with imperfect and irregular rings of blackish 

 brown and pale ochre. 



The measurements of the specimen are as follows : 



Length of body, 8 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 2.8 " 



Caudal width of ])ronotum, 2 " 



Length of caudal femur 4 " 



Length of styles, (k2 " 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie, 



The range of this species now extends from the Biscayne Bay region 

 north to Pablo Beach. 



Liphoplus krugii Saussure. 



This interesting species is represented by eleven individuals, adults 

 and nymphs, representing two stages. The localities represented are: 

 Pablo Beach, August 11, 12 and 13, two adult males, one immature 

 male, three immature females; San Pablo, August 13, one adult male, 

 two immature females; Gainesville, August 16, one immature male, one 

 adult female. At Pablo Beach it was taken in grassland, under 

 boards and beaten from weeds; at San Pablo and Gainesville it was 

 found in the undergrowth in pine woods. 



The adult male of this species has the pronotum considerably ex- 

 tended over the dorsum of the abdomen as in Cycloptilum and Ecta- 

 toderus, but the presence of a tambourine on the cephalic tibiie as well 

 as the divided interantennal process distinguishes Liphoj)his from both 

 of the allied groups. The measurements of an adult male and female 

 are here given. 



Pablo Beach, Gainesville, 

 Fla. Fla. 



cS" 9 



Length of body, 8.6 mm. 8.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.2 " 2.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 5.2 " 5.3 " 



Length of ovipositor, 5.8 " 



The species is now known to range north into Florida as far as Pablo 

 Beach and San Pablo; Key West, the Bahamas, and Cuba being the 

 only localities from which it has previously been recorded. 

 Nemobius socius Scudder. 



Nine individuals represent this species, which possesses three phases 

 rather similar to those of N. fasciatus. The localities represented are: 

 Pablo Beach, August 11 and 12, two males, three females; Gainesville, 

 August 16, one female; Bronson, Levy County, August 16, one male; 

 Cedar Keys, August 15, one male, one female. At Pablo Beach it was 

 found in wet and dry grass, and at Gainesville in the brush in pine 

 woods. 



The phases of this species are as follows: A long-winged type with 

 the tegmina reaching nearly to the apex of the abdomen and the wings 

 long caudate; another apparently wingless with the tegmina similar 

 to the first form described; a third wingless and with the tegmina 

 hardly reaching caudad of the middle of the abdomen. Each of these 

 phases is represented by three individuals in the series before us, and, 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF Pini.ADF.LPlITA. 317' 



possibly by coincidence, all the three with the short tegmina are from 

 the CJulf coast or drainage, the previously recorded specimens of this 

 phase also l)eing from that coast at Tampa.'** However, one of the 

 long- winged type is from lironson, Levy County, not far from the Gulf ,- 

 while both types ilescribed first are from Pablo Beach. 



Some specimens are decidedly more l)lackish than others, and color 

 pattern visible in the more Ijrownish specimens is obliterated in the- 

 blackish individuals. 



This species is known to range from Georgia south to Charlotte 

 IIai1)()r, Fla., and west to the Gulf coast of Texas. 



Nemobius ambitiosus Scmlder. 



This sjiecies, probably the most attractive of our forms of the genus, 

 is represented by a series of thirty-five individuals from the following 

 localities: Pablo Beach, A\igust 12, one immature female; San Pablo, 

 August 13, one female; Gainesville, August 16 and 17, seventeen males, 

 sixteen females. At San Pablo and Gainesville the undergrowth in 

 pine woods was its favorite habitat, while at Pablo Beach it was found 

 in palmetto scrub. 



A very perceptible amount of variation in the shade of the base color 

 of the tegmina and of the cephalic markings is noticeable, some in- 

 dividuals having these parts more brownish than others. The yellow 

 line bordering the eye caudo-laterad is also absent or faint in several 

 specimens, the same being true of the medio-longitudinal line on the 

 external face of the caudal femora. In general size there is considerable 

 variation, but the tegmina appear to be of a comparatively uniform 

 length. 



This species ranges from southern Georgia (Thomasville) to Miami, 

 D'ade County, Fla. The localities in addition to the above from which 

 it has been recorded, all in Florida, are Leon County, Fort Reed and 

 Sanford, Orange County; Jacksonville, Duval County; Ormond, 

 \'olusia County; Tampa, Hillsboro County; Charlotte Harbor and 

 Lidian River. 

 Gryllus rubens Scudder. 



The localities at which this species was taken are Jacksonville, 

 August 10, one male; Pablo Beach, August 13, one female; Gainesville, 

 August 16 and 17, two males, one nymph. At Gainesville both the 

 pine woods undergrowth and open field were the situations in which 

 specimens were taken; at Jacksonville a city park, and at Pablo Beach 

 grassland. 



'* Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 50. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



(Ecanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmuller. 



A male from Cedar Kej^s, August 15, and a female from Pablo Beach, 

 August 13, represent this species. Both individuals were swept from 

 o;rass. 

 Anaxipha exigua (Say). 



A single male of this species was taken at Gainesville, August 16, 

 from the wire-grass in pine woods, in company with Falcicida. In size 

 it agrees with Pennsylvania and Delaware males. 



Falcicula liebardi Rehn. 



This sprightly little cricket was taken at but one locality, Gainesville, 

 August 16. Here it was abundant in the wire-grass in long-leaf pine 

 woods, ai^parently, however, quite local, and very elusive when located 

 on account of its very protective coloration. As Gainesville was the 

 only locality aside from San Pablo which is in any way similar to the 

 type locality of the species, the lack of suitable environment was no 

 ■doubt the reason it was not observed elsewhere. At San Pablo, our 

 stay was too limited to be a fair test of the locality. The series cap- 

 tured comprises ten males, thirteen females and one nymph. 



The range of this species in the southeastern States is from Thomas- 

 ville, Thomas County, Ga., to Gainesville, Alachua County, Fla. 



Hapithus quadratus Scudder. 



A single male of this species was taken at Pablo Beach, August 11. 

 When compared with males of H. agitator from New Jersey and Penns^d- 

 vania, the Florida form is seen to be larger with distinctly longer 

 caudal limbs, the mediastine vein of the tegmen also having more 

 numerous and more regular rami.^^ 



Measurements of quadratus and agitator are as follows : 



Hapithus brevipennis Saussure. 



A series of four adult males and five immature individuals represent 

 this species, the localities being Pablo Beach, August 12 and 13, two 



" Vide Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 52. 




H»()7.] XATL'HAL SCIENX'ES OF I'HILADELl'HIA. 319 



ailult.s aiul two nymphs; San Pablo, August 13, one adult; Gainesville, 

 August 16. one ailult and two nymphs, and Cedar Keys, August 15, 

 onenym{>h. 



At Gainesville and San Pablo it was found in the undergrowth in 

 pine wooils, at I'ablo Beach in palmetto scrub and along a railroad 

 embankment, and at Cedar Keys in salt marsh. 



The range of this species now extends from Louisiana to Georgia, 

 south to I'ablo Beach and Cedar Keys, Fla. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



THE EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGTJR: A STUDY OF THE INFLUENCE OF YOLK 

 ON DEVELOPMENT. 



BY EDWIN G. COXKLIN, 



PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. 



I. Introduction. 



1. GENERAL. 



It is generally believed that the accumulation of yolk in the eggs 

 of certain animals has greatly modified their original manner of develop- 

 ment. For example, selachians, reptiles and birds are probably 

 derived from animals in which the eggs contained much less yolk 

 than at present in these classes, and in which the development was 

 different in many respects from that which now obtains among these 

 forms. The effect of the loss of yolk upon development has been 

 studied experimentally by Morgan (1S93), but the influence of an 

 increase in the amount of yolk, while the protoplasmic portion of the 

 egg remains the same, has not been studied experimentally, and may 

 perhaps lie beyond the test of experiment.^ Such experiments, how- 

 ever, nature has performed in several different phyla of animals, but 

 nowhere are natural conditions more favorable for a study of the 

 influence of yolk on development than among the mollusks. Brooks 

 (1S79) long ago called attention to this fact, though it has not been 

 reinvestigated in the light of the modern cellular study of develop- 

 ment. 



The comparison of the development of large eggs with that of small 

 ones, with especial reference to the organization of the egg and the 

 history of the cleavage cells, should be of considerable general interest. 

 Does a great accumulation of yolk change the localization of morpho- 

 genetic processes and substances in the egg? Does it alter the devel- 

 opmental history and destiny of the blastomeres? Is the yolk itself 

 localized in any definite germinal region of the egg? In what manner 

 does a great mass of yolk alter the gastrulation and later embryonic 

 development? These are questions upon which a detailed comparison 



' The fusion of different eggs to form giants, such as occurs abnormally in 

 certain cases, is not a case in point, since the relative amount of yolk and pro- 

 toplasm remains the same in the fused eggs as in the single ones. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



of the normal dcvclopinent of large and of small eggs might be expected 

 to shed some light. Undoubtedly experiments, if they could be suc- 

 cessfully performed, would be of great value in answering these ques- 

 tions, but in the case of the gasteropods which I have studied I have 

 not found it possible to test these questions experimentally. 



The development of gasteropods is extraordinarily varied in respect 

 to the manner of nourishing the embryo and larva. In some cases, 

 and these pi-csumably the more primitive, the eggs are small and con- 

 tain little yolk and the free swimming larva) (veligers) are set free at 

 an early age to shift for themselves {e.g., Crepidula plana, Patella, 

 Acma:a, etc.). In others the eggs contain a larger quantity of yolk 

 and the free-swimming life is correspondingly reduced {e.g., Crepidula 

 jornicata, Illyonassa, etc.). In still others the eggs contain a yet 

 greater quantity of yolk and the veliger stage is passed entirely within 

 the egg capsules, the young escaping in practically an adult condition 

 {e.g., Crepidula convexa and adunca, Urosalpinx, Sycotypus, Fid gur, etc.). 



A most curious and interesting method by which nutriment is 

 supplied to the embryo is found in those gasteropods in which a large 

 number of relatively small eggs is laid, only a few of which develop, 

 the others being eaten as food by the developing embryos {e.g.. Purpura, 

 Buccinum, Fasciolaria, Neritina, etc.). 



For the purposes of the present study the only instances which we 

 shall consider are those in which the food for the developing embryos 

 is contained within the egg in the form of j^olk. The early develop- 

 ment of a considerable number of gasteropods is now well known, but 

 most of these belong to that group having relatively small eggs. It 

 has seemed to me worth while to compare with these the development 

 of the largest gasteropod egg of which I have any knowledge, viz., that 

 of Fulgur carica. The eggs of this species are about one-sixteenth of 

 an inch in diameter; those of a closely allied form, Sycotypus canalli- 

 culaius, are about one-twenty-fifth of an inch in diameter. The eggs 

 of Fulgur are about thirteen times the diameter and about 2,200 times 

 the volume of the eggs of Crepidula plana, with which I shall par- 

 ticularly compare them. I have also studied several other species 

 in which the eggs are intermediate in size between these two extremes, 

 as shown by the following table: 



Fulgur carica, 1,700 //in diameter. 



Sycotypus canalliculatus, 1,000 /jl " 



Crepidula adunca. . : 410 ij. " 



" convexa, 280 ,« " 



" fornicata 182 /« " 



plana, 136 ,« " 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl^l^Y; 



The great difference in the sizes of these eggs is not due to a pro- 

 portionate difference in all their constituents, viz., protoplasm as 

 well as yolk, but almost entirely to the varying amovmts of 3^olk which 

 they contain, and this fact suggests the possibility of examining the 

 influence of yolk upon development by comparing the development 

 of one of the largest gasteropod eggs with one of the smallest. 



A paper on the embryology of Fulgur was published by McMurrich 

 (1886) more than twenty years ago. This paper deals in a general 

 way with the development of this genus, questions of cell lineage and 

 egg organization being at that time almost unknown. Further refer- 

 ence to McMurrich's work will be made throughout the course of this 

 paper. A subsequent paper by the same author (1896) deals with the 

 yolk lobe and centrosome of Fulgur. Some features in the develop- 

 ment of this form were also considered by me (1897) in a paper dealing 

 more particularly with Crcpidula. Other than this the development 

 of Fulgur has not been made the subject of any detailed study. 



2. BREEDING HABITS. 



For the sake of completeness I shall here mention some observa- 

 tions on the breeding habits of Fulgur and Sycotypus. In both of 

 these forms the eggs are laid in peculiar disk-shaped or lenticular 

 capsules w-hich are attached in a series along a central cord. With 

 the exception of the first few capsules formed, wliich are small and 

 usually contain no eggs, each capsule contains from ten to twenty 

 eggs embedded in a gelatinous substance which fills the capsules. 



The method of forming the peculiar string of capsules characteristic 

 of these genera is sufficiently interesting to merit a brief description. 

 During the process of egg-laying, the foot of the female is contracted 

 and partially withdrawn within the shell. A mucous-like secretion 

 is then poured out from the nidamental organ through the folds of the 

 partially contracted foot, and this secretion is applied to some solid 

 object to which it adheres, or it is merely buried in the sand. In the 

 case of Fulgur this first formed portion of the "string" is liiu'ied deeply 

 in the sand ; in certain specimens of Sycotypus which 1 kept in a wooden 

 car, or float, the egg string was attached to the boards of the car. The 

 first formed capsules on the string are small, far apart and contain no 

 eggs. Later formed capsules increase in size and in the number of 

 eggs contained in each, and successive caijsulcs lie closer together on 

 the string. During the process of laying the female is cjuiescent, and 

 is usually bmied beneath the surface of the sand, only the siphon 

 protruding. The eggs, surroimded by the albimien and the secretion 




1^JU7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323- 



which forms the capsules, are poured out of the ovuluet into a small 

 cavity in the folded foot. Here the capsule-forming material conies 

 into contact with the sea water and hardens, after which the capsule 

 is releasetl from the foot and another is formed. The average length 

 of time taken by Sycoti/piis in forming a capsule is about three hours, 

 and as the ''egg string" may contain as many as seventy capsules, 

 the egg laying may cover a period of several da^'s. 



The eggs of Fidgur are laid at Beaufort, N. C, during the months of 

 May and June principally.- Sycotypus lays its eggs at Woods Hole 

 late in August or early in September. The rate of development in 

 these gasteroi)ods is very slow. I can give no definite figures as to 

 the length of the period of development, since the eggs which have 

 been brought into the laboratory do not long continue to develop nor- 

 mally, but from such evidence as I have been able to gather I conclude 

 that the development within the capsules occupies several months; 

 indeed I have frequently found egg strings in midwinter with partially 

 developed embryos, indicating that the eggs which are laid in the fall 

 may not hatch until the following spring. As might be expected where 

 eggs are so greatly laden with yolk, the entire embryonic and larval 

 development is passed within the egg capsules and the young hatch 

 in practicall}' an adult condition. 



3. METHODS AND MATERIAL. 



The eggs of Fidgur and Sycotypus are very soft and are difficult to- 

 preserve. When removed from the \-ery thick jelly in which they are 

 enclosed within the capsules they usually flatten into thin disks under 

 their own weight, or become otherwise distorted. There are no eo"- 

 membranes except those formed by the surrounding gelatinous sub- 

 stance, and the thin pellicle of protoplasm which surrounds the egg is 

 too w^eak to preserve the spherical shape or even to retain the yolk 

 unless the eggs are floating in water or jelly. Since the jelly must 

 in most cases be removed before the fixation of the eggs, special means 

 must be employed to prevent them from bursting or becoming dis- 

 torted. ]\Iany rapid fixing fluids, such as hot sublimate, alcohol and 

 alcohol-acetic mixtures, cause the eggs to crack open, or even to split 

 into fragments after they have been apparently well fixed. After 

 experimenting with many fixing fluids, the only successful method 

 of preservation which I have found, is to open one side of the capsule 



- 1 wish here to acki^nvledgc my indebtedness to Hon. George ^I. Bowers 

 U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries, and to Dr. Caswell Grave, Director of the 

 Fisheries Station at Beaufort, for the many courtesies extended to me while L 

 was at the Beaufort Station. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



and place the capsule containing the eggs in the jelly in 20 per cent, 

 formalin for an hour or two, and then shake the eggs out of the jelly 

 into a mixture of 20 per cent, formalin and 70 per cent, alcohol, equal 

 parts, afterwards transferring them to 80 per cent, alcohol. Unfor- 

 tunately this method leaves shreds of the jelly adhering to the eggs, and 

 as these shreds stain intensely they interfere with the study of the 

 eggs, which are to be stained and mounted entire. To preserve eggs 

 entirely free from the jelly I have found it advisable to slit open the 

 jelly and allow the eggs to drop out into a tall jar of 20 per cent, forma- 

 lin, or into a mixtiu-e of pure formalin (40 per cent.) and a saturated 

 solution of corrosive sublimate, equal parts. If the jar is quite tall 

 (at least eighteen inches) the eggs may be sufficiently hardened before 

 they reach the bottom to preserve their spherical shape, especially if 

 there is a layer of absorbent cotton at the bottom of the jar. After a 

 preliminary hardening in this fluid the eggs may be transferred to 

 other fixing fluids or to alcohol. These eggs were then stained in 

 dilute Delafield's hsematoxylin, and were mounted entire in the manner 

 described by me (1897, 1902) for other kinds of eggs. 



II. Cleavage. 



1: THE UNSEGMENTED EGG. 



I have made no attempt to study the phenomena of maturation and 

 fertilization in these eggs since they are particularly unfavorable for 

 such work, owing to the difficulties of fixation, already referred to, and 

 to the great quantity of yolk, which make the eggs difficult to section. 



The most striking feature of the unsegmented egg is the extremely 

 small ciuantity of the nuclear and cytoplasmic material as contrasted 

 with the yolk. The area of cytoplasm and the nuclear spindle shown 

 in Plate XXIII, fig. 1, are but little larger than in the egg of Crepidida, 

 though the entire egg of Fulgur is about 2,000 times the volume of the 

 egg of Crepidula. The great increase in the size of the egg of Fulgur 

 as compared with that of Crepidula is due almost exclusively to the 

 '.increased quantity of the yolk. 



2. FIRST AND SECOND CLEAVAGES. 



It is one of the surprises connected with the development of this 

 .egg that although the yolk is so abundant the cleavage is yet holo- 

 blastic. When this work was first begun I had thought that the 

 -cleavage in this egg, which is larger than the eggs of many cephalopods, 

 might show some resemblances to the meroblastic cleavage of the 

 ^cephalopod egg. However, this is not the case, for the cleavages, at 




li)07.] XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'IIIA. 325 



least as far as the oG-cell stage, arc idciitic-ally like those of Crcpidula 

 save for the enormous size of the macroiiicros. In the positions of 

 the mitotic spindles, the direction and rhythm of division, and the 

 shapes, relative sizes and ninnber of the micromeres these two genera 

 are practically identical. In the later development of Fw/^ur the yolk 

 cells do not divide, although their nuclei do, and this may be an ap- 

 proach to the condition found in meroblastic eggs. Many character- 

 istic differences appear l)etween Fidgur and Crepichda in the later 

 cleavages, and this fact is another evidence in favor of the view, 

 which I have maintained elsewhere (Conklin, 1897, 1898), that the form 

 of the early cleavage is more constant than that of the later cleavage; 

 indeed the early cleavage pattern may be reckoned as one of the most 

 conservati^'e features in the development of any gasteropod. 



The first cleavage divides the egg into two equal cells, one of \vhich 

 forms the anterior half of the future animal, the other the posterior 

 half (fig. 2). At the close of this cleavage the nuclei and cytoplasmic 

 areas rotate first in a dexiotropic and then in a laeotropic direction, as 

 in Crepidida, showing that the first cleavage is spiral in character. 



During the first cleavage and again during the second a small lobe 

 is formed at the vegetal pole, which again fuses with one of the macro- 

 meres at the close of the cleavage. This is the yolk lobe which has 

 been observed in so many different animals. In forms in which the 

 first two cleavages are equal this lobe is small, e.g., in Crepidida it is 

 quite inconspicuous, in Fidgur it is larger but still not more than one- 

 sixth the diameter of the macromere; in forms in which the first two 

 cleavages are unequal this lobe may be larger than the macromeres, 

 e.g., Urosalpin.v. McMurrich mistook this lobe for the polar body, 

 but afterwards (1896) corrected this mistake. 



The second cleavage is at right angles to the first and divides the 

 egg into right and left hah'es. It is not possible to affirm that the 

 median plane of the future animal coincides precisely with the second 

 cleavage plane, but it is evident that the two are very nearly, if not 

 exactly, coincident. In this respect, as also in the laeotropic position of 

 the spindles and the relative positions of the daughter nuclei and 

 spheres, this cleavage is similar to the corresponding one of Crcpidula. 



It is a surprising fact that a mitotic figure so small as that shown in 

 fig. 1 can bring about the division of so large a cell. It does not seem 

 possible that the mechanical influence of the amphiaster could cause so 

 large a result, except as it may serve as a stimulus to other forces. It 

 is doubtful too whether cytojilasmic movements of a vortical nature 

 are sufficient to explain the division of a cell body in which there is so 

 22 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



small an amount of cytoplasm and so large a quantity of j'^olk. The 

 superficial layer of C3^toplasm is so thin and weak that at first thought 

 it would seem incapable of constricting and ultimately dividing this 

 great cell. But although the factors named seem inadequate to pro- 

 duce so large a result it must be borne in mind that the yolk is relatively 

 soft, almost fluid, and that a considerable ciuantity of cytoplasm is 

 distributed through the yolk at this stage; furthermore the rate of 

 division is extremely slow, many hours being necessary for the com- 

 pletion of each of the first two cleavages. These are the only equal 

 divisions of the entire yolk which I have seen. Although the four 

 macromeres give rise to many cells in the course of development they 

 still constitute the chief volume of the embryo as late as the veliger 

 stage (pi. XXVIII, fig. 31), thus showing that the yolk content of these 

 cells has remained practically as in the 4-cell stage. 



3. SEGREGATION OF THE GER.MINAL liAYERS. 



The third cleavage is very unequal and separates the first quartet 

 of micromeres from the macromeres in a dexiotropic direction (pL 

 XXIII, fig. 4); these cells come to lie in the furrows between the 

 macromeres, and their shape is consequently like the corresponding 

 cells in Crepidula. 



The fourth cleavage (fig. 4) separates the second quartet of micro- 

 meres from the macromeres in a liieotropic direction. In anticipation 

 of this cleavage the nuclei with the surrounding cytoplasm rotate 

 Iseotropically until they lie in the upper left-hand corner of each cell, 

 then the mitotic figures appear and the cleavage takes place precisely 

 as in Crepidula and other gasteropods. 



The first quartet cells then divide Iseotropically, giving off at their 

 peripheral borders the "turret cells," and a little later the macromeres 

 again divide in a dexiotropic direction, giving rise to the third cjuartet 

 (fig. 5). Simultaneously the cells of the second quartet divide 

 dexiotropically. These divisions are shown in figs. 5 and 6. As a 

 result of these divisions twenty micromeres are formed, of which eight 

 belong to the first quartet, eight to the second and four to the third 

 (fig. 6). The entire ectoderm comes from these twenty cells. The 

 micromeres are composed almost entirely of cytoplasm and are rela- 

 tively free from yolk; in the macromeres the cytoplasmic areas sur- 

 rounding the nuclei lie at the periphery of the cap of micromeres. 

 The visible quantity of the cytoplasm has increased very considerably 

 since the beginning of cleavage, as is readily seen by comparing figs. 

 1 and 6. This is probably due to the segregation of cytoplasm, origin- 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES (W PHILADELPHIA. ' 327 



ally (listri))uted through the yolk, into the micromeres and cytoplasmic 

 areas of the macronieres, rather than to the conversion of yolk into 

 cytoplasm, since the yolk becomes less fluid and more firm during this: 

 period . 



In Fulgur and Sycotypus, as in every other gasteropod so far studied, 

 there are only three quartets of ectomeres. This is especially inter- 

 esting in \ic\v of the enormous size of this egg, where we might expect, 

 if anywhere, to find a much larger number of micromeres formed. 

 .McMurrich supposed that a large number of micromeres were budded 

 off from the macronieres in Fulgur, and that the number of such micro- 

 meres varied with the size of the egg. Viguier (189S) and Fujita (1895) 

 also reached the same conchision, maintaining that the number of c^uar- 

 tets formed in Tethys and Siphonaria is greater than three. This view 

 is in my opinion wholly without foundation. Whether the egg be large 

 or small three cjuartcts of ectomeres are formed, no more and no less, 

 and by the subdivision of the cells of these quartets all the ectoderm 

 of the embryo is formed. In the cases cited by Yiguier and Fujita 

 it can readily be seen, from their own figures, that they have mistaken 

 the subdivision of certain quartet cells for the formation of new 

 quartets from the macronieres. 



Since there are only three quartets of micromeres in Fulgur, and since 

 these cells nuist overgrow the enormous yolk, it would seem reasonable 

 to expect that the rate of subdivision of these quartets would be 

 accelerated, as compared with forms in which the yolk is small. How- 

 ever this is not the case; the first quartet divides about the time of the 

 formation of the second quartet, and the latter divides coincidently 

 with the formation of the third quartet, just as in Crepidula. In much 

 later stages the micromeres do divide more rapidly, but the early 

 subdivisions of the three quartets is not more rapid in the case of this 

 largest of gasteropod eggs than in the case of the smallest. In every 

 respect except the size of the macromeres, the early cleavage of Fulgur 

 is almost identically like that of Crepidula or any other prosobranch. 

 In the number, position, shapes and relative sizes of the micromeres 

 and in the positions and sizes of the nuclei and spheres there is the 

 closest similarity between the largest and smallest of gasteropod eggs. 



The next division is a highly characteristic one for annelids and 

 mollusks. viz.. the formation of the first member of the fourth ([uartet, 

 4/-/, by la>otropic cleavage of the left posterior macromere. 



After its formation it moves over into the furrow between macro- 

 meres D and C, as shown in pi. XXIV, fig. 8. This cell, 4c?, is formed 

 in advance of the other members of the fourth riuartet and it contains 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



a considerable quantity of 3'olk. In all of these regards it resembles 

 the corresponding cell in all annelids and mollusks, with the exception 

 of the cephalopods, in which the cell-lineage has been studied. 



But the feature of particular interest in this cell is its destin}^ rather 

 than its origin. In all annelids and mollusks, so far as known, the 

 anterior portion of this cell gives rise to most of the mesoderm, while 

 from its posterior portion the terminal part of the alimentary canal 

 arises. This cell is therefore known as the mesentoblast. The history 

 of this cell in Fulgur conforms entirely to what we know of it in other 

 forms, as will appear later. 



With the formation of the mesentoblast the segregation of the sub- 

 stances of the different germinal layers is nearly completed. I have 

 not observed that the sul^stances composing the mesentoblast differ 

 visibly from those of the ectoblasts and entoblasts, except in the 

 quantity of j^olk which these different cells contain. But in Limncca, 

 Physa and Planorhis I have been able to distinguish the substance of 

 the ectomeres from that of the mesomeres and entomeres before the 

 first cleavage of the egg. In these fresh-water snails, therefore, there 

 is a definite localization of the substances of the different germinal 

 layers, and I have elsewhere shown reason for believing that it is the 

 fact of this localization which determines that the ectoblast shall be 

 separated in three quartets, and that the mesoblast shall arise from 

 one cell of the fourth c[uartet. Since the segregation of the germinal 

 layers occurs in exactly the same Avay in Fulgur as in these other 

 gasteropods, it seems probable that there is here also the same type 

 of localization of the germinal substances of the egg, and that the enor- 

 mous accumulation of yolk in this egg has not altered in any funda- 

 mental way the localization of its various substances. 



The other members of the fourth quartet, 4A, 45 and 4C, are not 

 formed until the 50-cell stage (fig. 9). They are much larger than the 

 cell 4(i and contain a much greater quantity of yolk. Because of their 

 great size I sliall speak of them as the "secondary macromeres." 

 These cells are purely entoblastic in character and give rise to a por- 

 tion of the alimentary canal. In every one of these details they 

 closely resemble the corresponding cells of Crepidula. 



4. FURTHER HISTORY OF THE ECTOMERES. 



The further history of the three c^uartets of ectomeres may now be 

 followed through the development up to the time when they give rise 

 to the first recognizable organs. About the time of the formation of 

 the cell M all of the twenty micromeres divide so that forty micro- 




1007.] NATrKAL SCIENCES OF rilTLADEEnilA. 329 



lucres arc formed, as shown in fig. S (in this fiiiurc all the niicronieres 

 have divided or arc tlividing except the two posterior turret cells, which 

 divid(> a little later, fig. 0). The directions of these divisions and the 

 relative sizes of the daughter cells is the same as in Crepidula, and the 

 time at which the divisions occur is also the same, except that the 

 turret cells divide earlier in Fulgur than in Crepidula. 



The latest stage to which I have been able to trace with certainty 

 the lineage of every cell is shown in fig. 9. At this stage there are 

 present the following cells: 



Ectomeres -i- 



Mesentomeres 



Entomeres 7 



Total 55 



Fig. 10 shows si)indlcs in two cells of the second quartet, and when the 

 divisions here indicated are completed in the four c[uadrants the num- 

 ber of cells of known lineage is raised to 59. As a result of this work 

 on the early cleavage it may be affirmed with confidence that in Fulgur 

 the lineage of every cell up to about the 60-cell stage is itlentically 

 like that of Crepidula. 



a. The First Quartet. — Fctodermal Cross. — In Crepidula and many 

 other prosobranchs one of the most striking appearances in the early 

 history of the ectomeres is the formation of the so-caUed ''ectodermal 

 cross." This cross is composed of all the cells of the first quartet, 

 except the turret cells, and of four cells of the second quartet, one of 

 which forms the tip or terminal cell of each arm of the cross. The 

 center of the cross lies exactly at the animal pole, and one of the four 

 arms is anterior, one posterior, one right, and one left. This ectoder- 

 mal cross, composed of exactly the same cells as in Crepidula, is present 

 in Fulgur also (fig. 9 et seq.). It is not, however, so distinctly marked 

 ofT from the other micromeres as in Crepidula, and it is therefore much 

 more difficult to trace its subsequent history. In pis. XXIV, XXV, 

 figs. 8-16, the outlines of the cross are shown in heavy lines, the center 

 of the cross is marked by a short cross line, and the tip of each arm is 

 lightly stippled. In fig. 8 the cross consists of three cells in each 

 quadrant, an "apical," a "basal" and a "tip" cell (the anterior tip cell 

 is not yet formed). In fig. 9 the basal cells in the right and left arms 

 have divided, and in fig. 10 the basal cell of the anterior arm has also 

 divided. There are at this stage four apical cells and three cells in 

 each arm of the cross, except the posterior one which contains but 

 two. Later, as shown in fig. 11, the basal cell in the posterior arm also 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jul}', 



divides and at this stage the cross consists of sixteen cells. Still later 

 the apical cells bud off small cells between the bases of the arms, the 

 ''rosette" cells of Nereis and Crepidula (fig. 12). In every one of 

 these details of cleavage the history of the cross in Fulgur is like that 

 in Crepidula. The latest stage in which I have Ijeen able to identify 

 all the cells of the cross is one slightly later than the one shown in 

 fig. 12. At this stage the cross consists of the following cells: 



Apicals 4 



Rosettes 4 



Basals 7 



Middles 7 



Terminals 4 



Total 26 



In later stages the entire cross cannot be recognized ^^•ith certainty. 

 In figs. 13-16 the center of the cross, where the apical cells meet, can 

 be located, and the terminal cells may be seen more or less clearly, but 

 the other cells cannot always be surely identified. In fig. 13 the arms 

 of the cross can be plainly seen, each consisting of four cells in a single 

 linear series, as well as the four derivatives of the turret cells which 

 lie between the arms of the cross, but the apical and rosette cells 

 cannot be identified. In fig. 14 the cross is scarcely apparent at all, 

 and no part of it can be identified with certainty. In fig. 15 a cross 

 is shown with four cells in a series in each arm, just as in fig. 13. Fig. 

 16 shows a central plate of cells surrounded by heavy lines w^hich 

 probably represents the cross; the center of the apical cells may be 

 recognized, more or less doubtfully, at the place marked bj^ the cross 

 line, and the terminal cells are indicated by the stipples. Midway 

 between the terminal cells on each side of the plate is a group of four 

 cells, also enclosed in heavy lines, Avhich are the derivatives of the 

 turret cells. There are thirty-six cells in the cross in this latest stage 

 in which it is recognizable, eight of which are derived from the second 

 quartet. Deducting these second quartet cells and including the 

 turret cells, we find that there are forty-four cells of the first quartet 

 shown in pi. XXV, fig. 16. 



In Crepidida seven large cells of the anterior arm of the cross form 

 a peculiar "apical cell plate," while a number of large ciliated cells 

 derived from the posterior arm and the posterior turret cells form a 

 large "posterior cell plate," which becomes the head vesicle of the 

 larva. In Fulgur none of these structures are visible at any time, and 

 although the cross may be recognized clearly enough in its earlier 




l'.»()7.] NATURAL SCIEXCE8 OF IMII I,A DKLl'llI A. 331 



stages, it is f[uito ovidcnt tliat it is not so definite' a landmark here as 

 in Crepidula, where its cells may be identified with great certainty iij) 

 to a stage where it consists of sixty-six cells. The tvn-ret cells in 

 Crepidula grow to an enormous size and remain undivided up to a 

 stage with more than 100 cells; in FuUjur they tlo not become larger 

 than the other cells of the first quartet, and they divide twice before 

 the lOO-cell stage, as shown in figs. 13 and 16. 



h. Second and Third (Juartets of Ectomeres. — As far as I have been 

 able to follow the lineage of these cells in Fidgur, it coincides precisely 

 with that of the same quartets in Crepidula. The first subdivision of 

 the second quartet in Fulgur is shown in fig. 7 ; the first division of the 

 third quartet and the second of the second cjuartet in figs. 8, 9 and 10. 

 As a result of the divisions indicated in these figures two cells of the 

 third quartet and four of the second are formed in each c[uadrant of the 

 egg. By the divisions indicated in fig. 10 one additional second civiartet 

 cell is formed in each quadrant, and by the spindles shown in fig. 12 

 still another cell is formed, making six second ciuartet cells in each 

 quadrant of the egg shown in fig. 12. , All the third quartet cells then 

 divide, as indicated by the spindles in two of the cells in fig. 11, thus 

 giving rise to four third quartet cells in each quadrant. In figs. 12-16 

 there are six cells of the second quartet and four of the third in each 

 quadrant. Every one of these ten cells has its homologue in the 

 corresponding stages of the egg of Crepidida. 



This is as far as I have traced the lineage of all the cells of the second 

 and third quartets, though individual cells of these quartets may be 

 recognized in later stages (fig. 17). These cells of the second and 

 third quartets are in general larger than those of the first quartet, 

 which they completely surround. The third quartet cells are especi- 

 ally large, and in some cases (figs. 13, 15, 16) are quite as large as the 

 derivatives of 4d. 



In the stage shown in fig. 16 there are eighty-eight ectomeres as 



follows : 



First quartet cells 44 



Second cjuartet cells 28 



Third ciuartet cells 16 



Total 88 



5. FURTHER HISTORY OF THE MESEXTOMERES. 



The cell 4f/, formed at the 24-cell stage by la^otropic division of the 

 macromere D, undergoes dexiotropic cleavage into two equal cells, 

 4d^ and 4d- (fig. 9). At first these two cells lie to the left of the median 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



plane, but they later shift position so that the plane of division between 

 them comes to coincide with the plane of bilateral symmetry. The 

 next division of these cells separates an anterior protoplasmic portion 

 from a posterior yolk-laden one (fig. 9), and this process is repeated at 

 a slightly later stage (fig. 12), thus giving rise to six cells derived from 

 the cell 4rf, three on each side of the median plane. 



Of these cells the two anterior ones on each side are small proto- 

 plasmic cells which lie wholly under the layer of ectodermal cells; 

 these cells give rise to the mesoblastic band of each side. The posterior 

 cells are nmch larger and contain a consideral^le quantity of yolk; they 

 are only partially covered by the cap of ectodermal cells (fig. 12); 

 they ultimately give rise to the terminal portion of the intestine. I 

 have not followed in detail the cell lineage of these cells in later stages, 

 owing in part to the fact that they lie close under the thin layer of 

 ectoderm, and it is frequently difficult to distinguish one from the other 

 in surface views. However it is sufficiently evident that these cells 

 show fundamental resemblances in origin, history and destin}^ to the 

 mesentoblast cells of Crepidula ^nd other gasteropods. The "meso- 

 blastic bands" of Fulgur do not present a single series of cells, as in 

 some annelids and mollusks, but rather a broad, irregular l^and of 

 cells which has the general form of the letter Y. The stem of the Y 

 lies in the median plane behind the area of the shell gland, while its 

 two branches diverge on each side of this structure (figs. 19-24). 



Some distance in front of the anterior ends of these bands a few cells 

 appear beneath the ectoderm, which are probablj^ the homologues of 

 the "larval mesoderm" of other forms (figs. 19-22). They are in 

 close relation to the ectoderm cells which give rise to the cerebral 

 ganglia. I have not followed these "larval mesoderm" cells imtil 

 they give rise to mesodermal structures, but have classed them as 

 mesoderm because they lie beneath the surface and resemble in appear- 

 ance the cells of the mesodermal bands. 



6. THE ENTOMERES. 



Up to a stage when there are approximately fifty cells in the entire 

 embryo the entomeres consist of the four macromeres only. These 

 macromeres are all of about the same size, and they contain an enormous 

 quantity of yolk as compared with the amount of protoplasm. Each 

 macromere contains an area of cytoplasm relatively free from j^olk, in 

 which lie the nucleus and sphere. These cytoplasmic areas lie as near 

 as possible to the animal pole and to the free surface of the cell ; with 

 the extension of the cap of ectomeres these cytoplasmic areas with 




l!H)7.J NATIKAL SCIIONCES OF I'lII LADKLI'HIA. 333 



their enclosed nuclei antl spheres are not ()\er<iro\vn l)y the ectonieres, 

 but they move out over the yolk at the margin of tiie ectodermal cap, 

 and this position they retain until the blastoderm has overgrown much 

 of the yolk (pi. XXVII, fig. 26). 



At a stage of about fifty cells, the macromcres .1, B, and C divide 

 in a la'otropic direction, giving rise to the remaining members of the 

 fourth quartet, 4.1.4/? and 4C(fig. 9). These cells are very large and 

 full of yolk, and for these reasons I have called them "secondary 

 macromeres." The}^ come tQ lie in the furrows 1)etwcen the macro- 

 meres, and in this position they are partly overgrown by the advancing 

 ectoderm and partly shoved before it. They serve as an excellent 

 means of orienting the egg and embryo, since they are found at the 

 right, left and anterior poles only, the posterior pole being occupied 

 by the derivatives of the much smaller mesentoblast cell, id. 



The secondary macromeres are purely endodermal in character. 

 Although their nuclei subdivide (pis. XXV, figs. 17, 18, et seq.), their 

 cell bodies usually remain undivided until the closure of the blastopore 

 (pi. XX^TII, fig. 31). Throughout all of this period the entomeres 

 consist of the four macromeres and of these three second ar,y macromeres. 

 Even as late as the gastrula stage, shown in fig. 31, these are the only 

 entoderm cells present except those derived from the cell 4d, which give 

 rise to the terminal portion of the intestine {In., figs. 29-31). 



In Crepidula a fifth cjuartet of cells, which are purely entodermal 

 in character, is formed from tlie macromeres about the time of the 

 closure of the blastopore; and at the same time the cells 4A, 4B and 

 4C divide. These divisions have not been observed in Fidgur, but, 

 with these exceptions, the origin, history and destiny of the ento- 

 meres of Fidgur are almost precisely like those of Crcpidida. The 

 four primary macromeres are similar in all regards, save only in bulk ; 

 the secondary macromeres arise at the same cell stage and l^ehave 

 in the same manner in these two genera. In Crepidula, as in Fidgur, 

 these seven cells, together with the entoblastic derivatives of tlie cell 

 4d, constitute for a long period the whole of the entoblast. 



With the stage represented by fig. 17, in which there are about 121 

 cells, the ectomeres become so numerous that their lineage cannot 

 readily be traced. At a slightly later stage, regions of the blastoderm 

 begin to differentiate into characteristic structures. We shall there- 

 fore consider this stage as the close of the cleavage and the beginning 

 of the period of organ formation. 



In conclusion we find that the cleavage of Fidgur resembles that of 

 Crepidula in almost every detail. Such slight differences as do exist, 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



as, for example, in the relative development of the "cross" in the two 

 forms, are only such as frequently exist between other genera in which 

 the eggs are about equal in size. In short the enormous size of the 

 Fulgur egg, which has so greatly altered the relative proportions of 

 cytoplasm and yolk, and of micromeres and macromeres, has not 

 modified in the least the pattern of the cleavage. It has not 

 modified the localization in the egg and the segregation in 

 the cleavage of the substances of the germinal layers. In all of 

 these respects the egg of Fulgur is tj'pically like that of other gastero- 

 pods, and it shows no approach whatever to the condition found in the 

 eggs of cephalopods. 



7. RELATIVE SIZES OF NUCLEI AND CELLS. 



The great quantity of yolk in the egg of Fulgur introduces some 

 interesting cytological conditions. I have already called attention (p. 

 325) to the extremely small nuclear sjiindle in the first cleavage, and 

 to the problem of how this little spindle and the small amount of 

 cytoplasm around it can bring about the division of so great a cell 

 body. Another, though related, problem is found in the relative sizes 

 of the nucleus and cell body at different periods of the cleavage. 



In all the early cleavages the nuclei and spindles are very small, 

 even in the macromeres (figs. 1-6). Indeed the nuclei and spindles 

 in the macromeres are not larger than those in the micromeres during 

 the formation of the three quartets. After the formation of the third 

 quartet (fig. 7) there is a relatively long resting period for all of the 

 macromeres except D, consequently the nuclei in A, B, and C, fig. 8, 

 have grown to nearly double the diameter of those in fig. 7. The 

 macromere D divides before its nucleus becomes very large, giving 

 rise to the mesentomere, 4d. About the 50-cell stage, fig. 9, the macro- 

 meres A, B, and C divide, giving rise to the secondary macromeres 4A, 

 4B, and 4C The mitotic figures for this division are cpiite large and 

 are proportional in size to the resting nuclei from which they arise. 



From this stage onward the nuclei of all the macromeres enjoy a 

 long "rest," during which they grow to double their rnaxinuun 

 diameter at any previous stage (figs. 9-24). The greatest diameter of 

 the nucleus during the 2-cell and 4-cell stages is about 40 //; during the 

 formation of the three quartets the nuclear diameter is not greater 

 than this, but rather smaller; before the formation of the secondary 

 macromeres (fig. 8) the diameter of the nuclei in A, B, and C is about 

 50 //; at the close of their long rest and just before their next division 

 (fig. 24) the nuclei are about 80 ix in diameter. 




liK)?.] XA'rrUAL SCIKXCES OF IMlILADMLrillA. 335 



The diameter of the misejiineuted ejig is about l.TOO/i; that of each 

 of the macromeres during the formation of the quartets about 970 }x\ 

 while in the stages after the formation of the fourth quartet it is some- 

 wliat less, say aljout 900 [.l Therefore, although the diameter of the 

 cell body in these later stages is but little more than half that of the 

 unscgmented egg, the nucleai- diameter is twice as great as at any 

 pro\'ious stage. 



The ratio of the nucleai' diameter to the cell diameter, the "Kern- 

 plasmarelation" (k/p) of Hertwig (1903), is about 1 : 40 in the unseg- 

 mented egg; about 1 : 24 in the 4-cell to 24-cell stages; about 1 : 20 

 just before the formation of the Secondary macromeres; and about 

 1 : 12 at the close of the long resting period of the macromeres. shown 

 in fig. 24. 



In the micromeres of the 8-24-cell stages the ratio of the nuclear 

 diameter to the cell diameter is about 1:5; and in the later stages, 

 such as fig. IS, it rises to 1 : 3. 



It seems perfectly evident from these figures that the a])solute size 

 of the nucleus is tlependent not only upon the size of the cell, but also 

 \\\)im the length of the resting period; and by the same showing the 

 length of the resting period is not determined primarily by the size of 

 ti\c nucleus. In all the earlier divisions of the macromeres of Fulgur 

 the division comes on when the nucleus is relatively small (k/p = 1 : 

 24) ; in later stages it does not come on until the nucleus has grown to 

 twice this size (k/p =^ 1 : 12). 



In Crepidula I found (1902) that the si2;e of the nucleus, chromo- 

 somes, centrosomes, spindles and asters was, in the last analysis, 

 proportional to the volume of the cytoplasm, and I tried to show that 

 the inmiediate cause of division was the growth of the nucleus to a 

 ])oint where the ratio of nucleus to cytoplasm exceeded a critical limit. 

 This is certainly not the principal factor w^hich brings on division in 

 Fuhiur: and the fact that mitosis may occur in one cleavage when the 

 nucleus is relatively small and in another not imtil it becomes very 

 large, suggests that the moment of division may be dependent upon 

 some intrinsic condition in the nucleus or centrosome, rather than 

 upon the ratio of nuclear size to cell size. Support is lent to this view- 

 by the phenomena of oogenesis ; here we have in the germinal vesicle 

 the largest nucleus in the entire life cycle, following upon one of the 

 longest i-esting periods, while the second matui-ation division follows 

 immediately after the first; here also the moment of di\-ision seems to 

 depend upon intrinsic conditions in the cell. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



In the division of the cell IdocIv Fnlgur presents some interesting 

 conditicwis. Attention has been called to the fact that although the 

 spindle in the first cleavage is very small the entire egg divides. 

 Equally sin-prising is the fact that in the divisions of the primary and 

 secondary macromeres subsec|uent to the formation of the fourth 

 quartet, the nucleus only divides while the cell body remains imdivided 

 (figs. 17-28). The cell bodies of these entomeres do not divide again 

 until very late in development, if at all ; even in figs. 34 and 35, in 

 which the eml^ryo shows many definitive structures, the furrow be- 

 tween two of the original macromeres can be seen running ol)liquely 

 through the region below the head vesicle {H . V .). 



It seems to me that the following explanation may be offered of this 

 apparent anomaly. In the early stages of development the cell sub- 

 stance is quite fluid, as has been pointed out (p. 326), whereas in the 

 later stages the substance of the macromeres becomes much more con- 

 sistent. In the later stages of development the macromeres do not 

 show the tendency to burst or to undergo distortion during fixation, 

 which is so troublesome in the earlier stages: this is, I believe, due to 

 the greater consistency of the yolk during the later stages. This 

 same difference in consistency may explain also the curious fact that 

 the entire cell divides in the early stages, whereas only the nucleus 

 divides in later stages. 



In this connection attention may be called to the fact that there 

 is apparently a great increase in the ciuantity of cytoplasm in the later 

 stages, as compared with the earlier ones (cf. figs. 1, 6, 25). This 

 increased ciuantity of cytoplasm might be due to the liquefaction of 

 the yolk and its transformation into cytoplasm, or it might be the 

 result of the segregation into the ectodermal cap of cytoplasm originally 

 spread through the yolk substance. It is prol3a]:)le that both of these 

 processes occur, but in view of the increasing consistency of the yolk 

 during the period of quartet formation, it seems very probal^le that 

 most of the cytoplasm of the early stages was present as such, but in a 

 diffused form, in the unsegmented egg. 



III. Organogeny. 



It has been shoAvn that there are but few and minor differences- 

 between Fulgur and Crepidula in the cleavage up to a stage of about 

 100 cells (fig. 16). After this stage the differences in development 

 become more marked. The first notable difference is found in the 

 number of micromeres; by repeated divisions of the three quartets of 




1007.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF I'll 1 1, A DKI.I'III A. 337 



ectonieres these cells become very miuierous in FuUfur, as shown in 

 figs. 17, IS, ct scq., whereas in Crcpulula the number remains relatively 

 i^mall. It is evident that the same cell stages in the two no longer 

 rejM-esent similar stages in differentiation; for example, the shell gland 

 is one of the first organs to appear, and is first visible in Crepidula 

 when tliere are about 250 cells present (Conklin, 1897, fig. 74); while 

 it fii-st becomes visible in Fuhjur when there are about 1,000 cells 

 (fig. 23). The period of the closure of the blastopore is very different 

 in the two; in (JrcjiiduUi this occurs before any organs are visible (fig. 

 65), in Fulgur only after almost all the larval and many of the defini- 

 tive organs are present (fig. 31). 



Other striking differences between Fulgur and Crepidula are found 

 in the form and character of the different organs and in the time at 

 which they appear, but most of all in the method of formation of 

 these organs and in their relation to the yolk. 



1. OVERGROWTH OF THE YOTJv AND COXCHESCEXCE OF THE EMimVO. 



Owing to the fact that the entomeres are so large in Fulgur, organs 

 begin to differentiate long before the closure of the blastopore, indeed 

 while the blastoderm is still a small cap at the animal pole of the egg 

 (figs. 23-26). The organ bases are here spread out as in a mercator's 

 chart, whereas in Crepidula the organ bases do not appear until the 

 blastoderm has overgrown the yolk and they occur over the sphere, so 

 that only a few of them can be seen from a single point of view. 



In the earlier stages of Fulgur the organ bases occur in the anterior 

 half as well as in the posterior portion of the blastoderm (figs. 21-23) ; 

 later by the very rapid growth of the median anterior portion of the 

 blastotlerm these organ bases are displaced laterally and posteriorly 

 until they come to form a kind of germ ring, or crescent, along the 

 posterior margin of the blastoderm (figs. 24-28). This germ ring 

 contains the bases of all the future organs, whereas the rest of the 

 blastoderm forms a kind of yolk sac. 



The manner of the overgrowth is represented diagrammatically in 

 the accompanying text figure. The outlines of the blastoderm in 

 successive stages of the overgrowth are indicated by the numerals 1-S. 

 By superimposing on the same figure these different stages of the 

 overgrowth it is possilile to see at a glance the character and 

 relati\'e amount of the movement of the different organ bases. 

 Thus in 1, the center of the blastoderm is approximately the center 

 of the animal i)ole; in front of this lie the cerebral ganglia (c5) 




33S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



and velar row (v), while the buccal ganglia (be) lie at the right and 

 left_margins of the blastoderm. Posterior to the animal [pole is 



Diagram illustrating the more important phases in the overgrowth of the yolk 

 by the blastoderm in Fulgur carica. The outer circle represents the out- 

 line of the entire egg, and the smaller circles, numbered 1 to S, represent 

 the margins of the blastoderm in successive stages of the overgrowth. The 

 egg is represented as seen from the posterior pole, and in order to bring all 

 stages into one figure the arc through which tiie posterior margin of the 

 Ijlastoderm moves is represented as less than is actually the case. The out- 

 line of the blastoderm and the positions of the organ primordia in stage 1 

 correspond to figs. 25 and 26, plate XXATI ; stages 2 and 3 correspond to 

 fig. 27; stage -4 to fig. 28; stage 5 to fig. 29; stages 6 and 7 to fig. 30; stage 8 

 to fig. 31. In stage 1 the velar cells are represented as a double line of 

 stipples anterior and lateral to the cerel^ral ganglia (cb) ; the buccal ganglia 

 (be) lie at the lateral margins of the blastoderm ; immediately posterior to 

 the shell gland (.s) is the primordium of the intestine; on the left of this is 

 the alidominal ganglion, and on each side of tlie latter are the parietal ganglia, 

 the pleural ganglia, the otocysts and the pedal gangHa. In stages 2-7 the 

 cerebral ancl buccal ganglia are represented in dotted outlines ; in stages 1 

 and 8 they are stippled, as are the other primordia. 



found an organ complex which includes the shell gland, intestine, 

 abdominal, parietal, pleural and pedal ganglia, and the otocysts. 



By the growth of the median anterior portion of the blastoderm, the 

 cerebral ganglia and velar cells and the buccal ganglia are carried 

 around to the successive positions indicated in the diagram, while the 

 organ complex described above undergoes little movement. The dia- 

 gram is faulty in that it shows too little movement of the organ com- 




l'.W7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 339 



plcx of the posterior lip, and tlnis represents the final position of the 

 l)lastt)pore too near the posterior pole, but it represents fairly well the 

 relative movements of the different organ bases during the first four 

 stages sliown (1-4). Reference to the first and second cleavage furrows 

 l)etween the macromeres, shown in figs. 25-2.S, will show that the 

 posterior margin of the blastoderm remains relatively fixed during this 

 period, while at the same time the blastoderm extends forward and 

 laterally ; still later the blastoderm extends posteriorly also, and finally 

 the blastopore closes at the vegetal pole (fig. 30). 



2. APICAL INVAGINATION. 



The first structure which appears in the course of development is an 

 invagination of ectodermal cells just anterior to the animal pole and in 

 the region of the anterior arm of the cross. This invagination is pre- 

 ceded by a broad depression of the blastoderm (fig. 18), and then the 

 center of this depression becomes deeply cup-shaped (fig. 19), and finally 

 tubular in form (fig. 20). The axis of this tubular invagination at first 

 runs forward under the ectoderm; then it becomes perpendicular to the 

 surface of the blastoderm ; and subseciuently it runs backward under the 

 ectoderm, its opening being at its anterior end (fig. 20). The inner, 

 blind end of this invagination lies near the anterior end of the polar 

 furrow, and in some instances, though not in all, a few cells are separ- 

 ated from the invagination at this point. The anlagen of the cerebral 

 ganglia are formed on the right and left of this invagination, but they 

 do not appear to be derived from it. Similarly a few mesoderm cells, 

 which probaljly correspond to the "larval mesoderm" of other mol- 

 lusks, lie on each side of the invagination, though they are not derived 

 from it (see the black nuclei in figs. 19 et seq.). 



Subsequently this conspicuous and definite structure completely 

 flattens out and disappears (figs. 21 et seq.), leaving not a trace be- 

 hind. This fact seems so remarkable and the significance of the 

 invagination is so problematical that I have devoted considerable time 

 and effort to the study of it. 



It is evident that this invagination is not merely the result of the 

 sinking in of the blastoderm over a cavity in the yolk. There is 

 frequently a cavity between the macromeres, but this invagination 

 invariably lies anterior to this cavity, and in many cases it actually 

 forces its way into the substance of the yolk. In some cases also a 

 prominent evagination is formed instead of an invagination, showing 

 that there is very active growth in this region of the blastoderm. 



It seems to me probable that this invagination is a mechanical 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jwly, 



adaptation to secure a rapid extension of the anterior half of the blasto- 

 derm over the yolk. During the growth of the invagination the area 

 of the blastoderm remains stationary, or actually grows smaller; as 

 soon as it flattens out there is a very rapid increase in the area of the 

 blastoderm (cf. figs. 20 and 21), especially of that portion lying anterior 

 to the first cleavage plane. Coincidently with this increase in area the 

 secondary macromere, iB, begins to move forward in the furrow 

 between the macromeres and the^ blastoderm rapidly extends for- 

 ward. The remarkable extent of the growth of this anterior portion 

 of the blastoderm may be seen by comparing the positions of the organ 

 bases in figs. 19-30. In the earlier figures the shell gland and the two 

 cerebral ganglia form the angles of an isosceles triangle, the base of 

 which is directed forw^ard (figs. 21 and 22) ; in later stages the ganglia 

 separate more widely and the triangle becomes ec|uilateral (figs. 23 

 and 24); still later the cerebral ganglia are separated so widely that 

 they lie in line with the shell gland (figs. 27 and 28) ; and finally the 

 cerebral ganglia again approach each other on the ventral side of the 

 embryo (figs. 29 and 30). The greatest growth of the blastoderm 

 takes place in the area between and in front of the cerebral ganglia, 

 in the very region of the apical invagination, and it seems reasonable to 

 suppose that the remarkable growth of this region is associated with 

 the formation and subsequent flattening out of this structure. 



iMcMurrich (1886) described at some length this invagination, and he 

 compared it with a similar formation observed by Blochmann (1883) 

 in Neritina, and by Sarasin (1882) in Bythinia. He says: "It seems 

 very strange that an invagination so well marked as it is in Neritina 

 and Fulgur should disappear and leave no trace of its existence, but so 

 it seems to do." His further conclusion that it would be found to 

 occur in most, if not all, of the prosobranch gasteropods has not been 

 justified by later studies. 



3. SHELL GLAND, SHELL AND MANTLE. 



The shell gland is one of the earliest and largest of the developing 

 organs, and is the one most instrumental in shaping the form of the 

 embryo. It appears as an aggregation of ectodermal cells in the 

 median plane posterior to the apical pole (figs. 21, 22). These cells, 

 which are probably derived from the cell 2d, increase greatly in nimiber 

 and form a saucer-shaped depression (figs. 23-26, Sh.). This depres- 

 sion then becomes deeper and smaller in surface area (figs. 27, 28) and 

 subsequently it evaginates in the manner characteristic of gasteropods, 

 the margin of the gland forming a ridge, the mantle edge, while the 




1*^07.] NATURAL SriEXCES OF PHI I. A 1)1 .Ll'III A. 341 



center is covered by the cuticular substance which forms the earhest 

 sliell; l)eneath this sliell is a veiy thin Layer of ecto(hM-in, in which the 

 nuclei are few and far apart. The niariiin of the shell ^laiid, or mantle 

 eilge, is at first circular in outline; then it Ijeconies uniformly elliptical 

 (figs. 29 and 30); finally it continues to extend in all directions, except 

 where it comes into contact with the organ complex on the ventral 

 side of the embryo; here the growth of tlie mantle edge is arrested, and 

 consequently a notch in the developing shell and mantle appears here, 

 which notch grows deeper as the mantle edge extends farther (figs. 

 31-36). 



The area covered by the shell grows larger continually and the yolk 

 appears to slip through the ring formed by the mantle edge, while at 

 tlie same time the blastoderm and its organ anlagen are retained in 

 front of this ring. In this way the yolk slips out of the anterior portion 

 of the embryo, and the tension on the blastoderm being relieved in this 

 manner, the latter is free to undergo the foldings necessary to form the 

 head vesicle, velum, larval kidney antl heart ; at the same time the mantle 

 edge, continuing to grow forward on the dorsal side, gives rise to the 

 mantle fold and mantle chamber. On the ventral side the forward 

 growth of the mantle edge is stopped l)y the organ complex (figs. 35, 36). 



In the earlier stages of this overgrowth, the mantle edge and organ 

 complex are apparently bilaterally S3anmetrical ; in later stages it can be 

 seen that the organs are more developed on the right side (left in ventral 

 view) than on the left, and consequently the notch in the mantle edge 

 is displaced from the median plane toward the right. In this way the 

 assymetry of this gasteropod makes its appearance. Along the left 

 side of the notch (right in ventral view) a cellular thickening of the 

 blastoderm occurs near the mantle edge (figs. 34, 35, CmM.) which gives 

 rise to the columellar muscle, while the shell formed along this portion 

 of the mantle edge is the columella. 



It is well known that in annelids the ectoderm of the trunk is de- 

 rived from the ectomere 2d (= X). In Fulgur, Crepidula and several 

 other gasteropod s, cells derived from the ectomere 2d give rise to the 

 mantle edge and fold and to the layer of cells covering the yolk unfler 

 the shell. This fact suggests that the elongation of the embryo 

 through the ring of the mantle edge may possibly be comparable to 

 the elongation of the trunk of the annelid. 



4. NERVOUS SYSTEM AND SENSE ORGANS. 



In their earliest stages the organ bases may be recognized by the 

 fact that the nuclei are closer together and the i.irotoplasm stains more 

 23 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [-J^Hiy 



deeply than in other portions of the blastoderm. In the case of the 

 nervous system certain of the ganolia are from the first clearly dis- 

 tinguishable, whereas some others in the organ complex posterior to 

 the shell gland (fig. 23) cannot be distinguished until a later stage. 



a. Cerebral Ganglia. — The group of cells which will form the cerebral 

 ganglia appears at a very early stage. It is shown in figs. 19 and 20 on 

 each side of the apical invagination, and closely connected with the 

 group of cells lying beneath the superficial layer, which I have identified, 

 somewhat doubtfully, with the "larval mesoderm" (fig. 21, Lf7i.). The 

 cells which give rise to the cerebral ganglia arise in the region of the 

 blastoderm, on each side of the anterior arm of the cross and in front 

 of the transverse arms, probably from the "rosette" cells, exactly as 

 in Crepidula, and they probably correspond in origin as well as destiny 

 to the cells of the "cephalic neural plate" of N'ereis (cf. Conklin, 

 1897, p. 110). 



With the great growth of the anterior part of the blastoderm, which 

 follows the flattening out of the apical invagination, these cerebral 

 ganglia are carried laterally until they lie near the margin of the 

 blastoderm (figs. 21, 22, Cb.). In figs. 23 and 24 they lie still nearer 

 the margin, and their protoplasm and nuclei are somewhat more con- 

 densed than in the previous stage; the bases of all the organs now 

 stain more deeply and they are all connected together by deeply stain- 

 ing protoplasm (figs. 23, 24). In all these stages the cerebral ganglia 

 lie anterior to the middle of the blastoderm and are the anteriormost 

 organs present. Later they are carried back until they lie in the 

 posterior lip of the blastopore and at opposite ends of a transverse 

 line which lies nearly in the plane of the first cleavage, and along which 

 line most of the organ bases of the embryo are found (text fig. and 

 figs. 27, 28). Still later, by a continuation of the movement already 

 described, the cerebral ganglia are carried posterior to the first cleavage 

 plane and to the other organs of the posterior lip, and they then ap- 

 proach each other on the ventral side of the embryo, and come to 

 lie on each side of the blastopore (figs. 29. 30). This movement of the 

 cerebral ganglia may be l^etter described by pointing out their position 

 with reference to the shell gland, v.diich may be considered as a_fixed 

 point. In earlier stages the shell gl'^nd forms the apex of an isosceles 

 triangle, the other angles being forined by the cerebral ganglia; then 

 by the separation of the ganglia the triangle becomes equilateral, and 

 still later the angle at the apex increases imtil the ganglia and the shell 

 gland lie in one straight line: then by a continuance of the movement 

 of the ganglia a triangle is formed on the. opposite (ventral) side of 




1^'^7.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF I'HI LADKLPFilA. 343 



the shell <;lii"«l. which develops in the inverse order of that on the 

 dorsal side (t(>\t figure). In the stages shown in figs. 30 and 31 the 

 cerohial ganglia lie lateral and slightly posterior to the blastopore; 

 in fig. 32 they lie on the sitlcs of the blastopore, and a process is growing 

 out from each toward the other in front of the blastopore; in fig. 33-36 

 they lie in front of the blastopore and are closely connected together 

 by the cerebral conunissurc. 



Along the posterior edge of each cerebral ganglion a leaf-like process 

 is formed which is the tentacle (figs. 35, 36, T.), and at the outer end of 

 the furrow which separates the tentacle from the blastoderm the eye 

 appears (figs. 34-36). 



h. Buccal Ganglia. — Lateral and slightly posterior to each cerebral 

 anlage is a group of cells which gives rise to the buccal ganglion (figs. 

 22, 23, Be). These cells lie at the very periphery of the blastoderm 

 and are probably derived from the ectomeres 2a and 2c. In the over- 

 growth of the yolk they accompany the cerebral ganglia, moving from 

 the dorsal to the ventral side in the posterior lip of the blastopore 

 (figs. 27-29), and finally coming to lie along the posterior border of 

 the blastopore (fig. 30). A\lien the blastopore closes the buccal ganglia 

 of the two sides come into contact on the posterior side of the blasto- 

 pore (fig. 31 and text figure). 



c. Pleural, Pedal, Parietal and Abdominal Ganglia. — ^The other 

 ganglia of the nervous system form part of the complex of organs lying 

 between the shell gland and the posterior lip of the blastopore. The 

 l)leural ganglia lie on each side of the shell gland and on the lateral 

 borders of the organ complex (figs. 23, 24) ; the pedal ganglia lie on the 

 median side of the pleurals; close behind the shell gland are the 

 groups of cells which give rise to the parietal and abdominal ganglia. 

 The anlagen of these ganglia are not clearly separated at this time, and 

 only in the later stages (fig. 28 cl seq.) are they quite distinct. When 

 the foot begins to appear (fig. 31) the pedal ganglia are included 

 within it. and the pleural ganglia lie on each side of the foot, while the 

 otocysts lie between the two (fig. 28 et seq.). The otocysts are here, as 

 elsewhere, formed as an invagination of the superficial ectoderm. 

 All the ectodermal organs of this region are derived from the cell 2d, 

 with the possible exception of the pleural ganglia, which lie on the 

 lateral borders of the organ complex and may therefore come, in part, 

 from the cells 3c and Sd. In aimelids the ectoderm of the trunk region 

 and the ventral neural plate, which gives rise to all the nervous system 

 posterior to the mouth, come from this same cell, 2d, the "first somato- 

 blast." Lillie (1895) fo\md the same condition among ]amellil)ranchs. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl^'ly, 



Among the gasteropods this cell is not larger than the other mem- 

 bers of the second quartet, but it is destined to give rise to all the 

 important ectodermal organs posterior to the mouth. In this fact we 

 have a striking illustration not only of the value of cell-lineage in com- 

 parative embryology, but also of the fundamental similarity of 

 annelids, lamellibranchs and gasteropods. 



The parietal and abdominal ganglia, with their connectives, are 

 recognizable as thickenings of the blastoderm in a stage as early as 

 fig. 28, but they are not clearly distinguishable until a later stage 

 (figs. 30, 33, 34), In these figures the entire nervous system is easily 

 recognizable. The cerebral ganglia are connected by the cerebral com- 

 missure anterior to the mouth, and they are united with the pleurals 

 and pedals by the cerebro-pleural and the cerebro-pedal commissures 

 respectively on each side of the cesophagus. The parietal ganglion of 

 the left side lies almost directly behind the foot, and is connected with 

 the pleural of the left side by the pi euro-parietal connective; the 

 parietal of the right side lies on the right side of the foot and is connected 

 with the pleural of that side, while the two parietals are connected 

 together by the nerve loop which runs alongside of the intestine and 

 near its middle bears the abdominal, or visceral, ganglion. 



In these and the following stages (pi. XXVIII, figs. 35 and 36) the 

 entire nervous system and the twisting of the parietal loop may be 

 seen with diagrammatic clearness. This twisting, which is a part of 

 the general movement toward the right of all the organs posterior to 

 the foot, carries the left parietal ganglion to the right side of the foot, 

 where it lies in contact with the right pleural, while the abdominal 

 lies still farther toward the right and the dorsal side (fig. 36) ; at the 

 same time the right parietal is carried up to the dorsal midline, where 

 it lies on the dorsal side of the oesophagus (fig. 36). The entire 

 nervous system, except the buccal ganglia, Avhich are here hidden from 

 view by the cerebrals, is shown in very nearly its definitive position in 

 fig. 36. All of the six pairs of ganglia may be recognized in fig. 30, 

 and four pairs are recognizable in fig. 23. 



In all of these regards the nervous system of Fulgur shows funda- 

 mental resemblances to that of Crepidula. To one who had not ob- 

 served the earlier stages in the origin of the cerebral ganglia it might 

 seem that these ganglia, which lie so near the periphery of the blasto- 

 derm and so closely connected with the other organs of the posterior 

 lip, could not possibly have arisen from cells of the first quartet anterior 

 to the transverse arms of the cross. It is only by a study of the early 

 history of these ganglia and their subsequent movements that one can 




l!)()7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIirA. 345 



cleterininc that the cerebral gansiUa, and indeed all the gansHa, arise 

 in corres[)ondinj2: parts of the egg in FaUjur and Crepvlula. Such a 

 study shows that amidst all the differences in the mode of develop- 

 ment of these ganglia, there is the most fundamental resemblance in 

 their places of origin in the egg, and that therefore the localization of 

 the germinal sul)stances of the egg in the early cleavage cells follows 

 the same pattern in these two genera. 



5. THE VELUM. 



The velum arises in close relation to the cerebral ganglia, and its place 

 of origin furnishes another striking illustration of what are apparently 

 fundamental differences between Fulgur and Crepidula, l)ut which are 

 in reality fundamental resemblances. In Fulgur the velum is first 

 visil:)le as a dense band of nuclei on the median and posterior sides 

 of the cerebral ganglia (fig. 28, V.). These velar bands are widely 

 separated from one another and are entirely disconnected. In later 

 stages these velar bands more completely encircle the cerebral ganglia; 

 each has somewhat the form of a ]iarabola, one liml) of which runs for- 

 ward in the lip of the blastopore, while the other, which lies posterior 

 to the cerebral ganglion, runs out towards the lateral regions of the 

 embryo and there ends in the general blastoderm (figs. 29, 30). Sub- 

 sequently, \\hen the blastopore narrows and closes, the two limbs which 

 run forward in its lips unite in front of the mouth (figs. 31, 32), while 

 the lateral limb turns forward over the sides of that portion of the 

 embryo which will become the head vesicle (figs. 33, 34). From the 

 posterior side of each band there is given off a branch which runs across 

 the embryo posterior to the mouth and there joins its fellow of the 

 opposite side, thus giving rise to the post-oral band, while that portion 

 of the velum which runs in front of the mouth is the ))re-oral band. 

 Both of these bands were observed and described by Mc>huTi('li (1S8G). 



In subsequent stages the velum is drawn out into a prominent bi- 

 laminar fold (figs. 35, 36). This velar fold or lobe grows out to a very 

 great size, much larger than is shown in fig. 36, the ciliated velar 

 cells being borne around its edge, as in other prosobranchs. By the 

 beating of these cilia it is probable that the embryos are able to move 

 very slowly within the egg capsules, though they never swim freely, 

 the young escaping from the capsules only after the velar lobe has been 

 absorbed. The velum in FuUjur is not a highly sensitive and contractile 

 organ, as in Crepidula and in man}' other forms; apparently, it cannot 

 be retracted, even in its most fully developed stage, and it is needless to 

 say that in the stage shown in fig. 36 there is no cavity into which the 

 velum, the head or the foot could be retracted. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jl-^b^ 



From the preceding account it is evident that during the later stages 

 of its development the vehim in Fulgur is much the same as in 

 Crepidula or any other prosobranch. In its early history, however, it 

 seems to be altogether different. It appears, as has been said, on the 

 median and posterior side of the cerebral ganglia when these structures 

 lie far apart in the posterior margin of the blastoderm (fig. 28) ; in 

 Crepidtda it first appears about the time of the closure of the blasto- 

 pore as a transverse row of cells in front of the mouth. In Fulgur it 

 consists of two bands of cells on opposite sides of the embryo, which 

 are entirely separate from each other ; in Crepidula it is a single struc- 

 ture continuous from side to side. 



However, in spite of these striking differences, it can be shown, I 

 think, that the velum has a similar origin in both of these genera. 

 Traces of the velum in Fidgur may be foimd at a much earlier stage 

 than that shown in fig. 28; thus in fig. 23 a row of what I take to be 

 velar cells may be seen on the lateral and anterior sides of the cerebral 

 ganglia (the nuclei of these cells are shown in heavy outline). The 

 position of this row of cells indicates that it has arisen from the cells 

 adjoining the ganglion on the anterior and lateral sides, and since the 

 ganglia themselves come, in all probability, from the "rosette" 

 cells, the velar cells must have come from the anterior "turret" cells 

 and perhaps also from the terminal cells of the transverse arms of the 

 cross. In short, the velar cells arise in Fidgur in the same region and 

 probably from the same cells as in Crepidula. Here again, as in the 

 case of the cerebral ganglia, there is fundamental agreement between 

 Fulgur and Crepidtda in the early and late stages in the developm.ent 

 of the velum; it is only in those stages of the overgrowth of the yolk, 

 which are undoubtedly highly modified in Fidgur, that we find striking 

 differences between these two genera. 



6. BLASTOPORE, MOUTH AND (ESOPHAGUS. 



By the very great growth of the blast oderin in the region of the 

 apical invagination the anterior portion of the blastoderm rapidly 

 surrounds the yolk, while its posterior margin, containing all the organ 

 bases, remains relatively fixed in position near the animal pole (figs. 

 25-28). Subsequently this posterior margin also extends over the 

 yolk to such an extent that the blastopore finally lies at the vegetal 

 pole of the egg (fig. 30). The anterior lip of the blastopore is always 

 composed of an extremely thin layer of cells, and this portion of the 

 blastopore is usually circular in outline; the posterior lip of the 

 blastopore is always composed of a thicker layer of cells than the an- 




I'JOT.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lII LADKLTII I A. 347 



terior lip, and it is not circular but is compressed laterally, as shown in 

 fig. 30. 



The blastopore then narrows until it is almost if not entirely dosed 

 (figs. 31, 32), and an invagination of ectoderm cells occurs here, which 

 is the stomodieum. The mt>uth is formed at the very place where the 

 blastopore closes, and the oesophagus is formed by the elongation of the 

 stomodeal invagination (fig. 36, (E.). 



In the closure of the blastopore and the formation of the mouth and 

 cesophagus Fulgur completely resembles Crepidula. 



7. INTESTINE AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 



The intestine is formed from enteroblast cells derived from the 

 mesentomere 4f/. These enteroblasts lie in the midline behind the 

 shell gland and they constitute the stem of a Y-shaped group of cells, 

 the branches of the Y being the mesodermal bands (figs. 22, 23). In 

 its earliest stages the intestine is a round, densely staining group of 

 cells, which lies at a lower level than surrounding portions of the 

 blastoderm. After the posterior margin of the blastoderm has ex- 

 tended over to the ventral side of the embryo, the intestine lies between 

 the margin of the shell gland behind and the visceral nerve loop and 

 abdominal ganglion in front (figs. 28-30). 



About the time of the closure of the blastopore the anlage of the 

 intestine elongates toward the right (left in ventral view), becoming at 

 first eUiptical in shape (fig. 31) and then tubular (fig. 32 et seq.). Up 

 to the time of this elongation it lies in the median plane; after this it, 

 together Avith other organs posterior to the foot, moves to the right. 

 The end of the intestine which remains nearest the midline is the anal 

 end, though the anus does not form until a much later period; the end 

 farthest to the right is the gastral end. The intestine lies just in front 

 of and parallel with the edge of the shell ; in fig. 32 its course is nearly 

 transverse to the long axis of the embryo, the notch in the shell being 

 at this stage very shallow. As the shell grow"s forward on the dorsal 

 side more rapidly than on the ventral, this notch grow\s deeper, and the 

 right edge of the shell becomes parallel v.ith the long axis of the embryo 

 (figs. 33-35) ; at the same time the intestine turns from a transverse to 

 a longitudinal course. The visceral nerve loop accompanies the in- 

 testine in this movement, the abdominal ganglion always lying close 

 to the mesial side of the intestine. 



Finally the mantle cavity begins to form on the mesial side of the 

 intestine, and the latter is thus carried into the roof of the mantle 

 chamber, the anal end of the intestine remaining near the mantle 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



edge, while the gastral end reaches to the deepest portion of the 

 mantle chamber (fig. 36). In all of these details as to the formation 

 of the intestine there is striking similarity between Fidgur and Crepidula. 

 In Crepidula the gastral end of the intestine o{)ens into a lumen 

 between the yolk cells, which give rise to the stomach and liver. 

 In Fvlg.ur I have observed no such lun\en between the yolk cells, and 

 while I think it probable that these cells form the stomach and liver 

 in this animal, I have not traced their history far enough to speak with 

 certainty upon this point. In Fulgur as in Crepidida the secondary 

 macromeres lie at the inner end of the stomodteum (fig. 31), and they 

 prol^ably form that section of the alimentary canal immediately follow- 

 ing the stomodieum. 



8. THE FOOT. 



The development of the foot is practically the same in Fulgur as in 

 other prosobranchs. It appears as a thickening of that portion of the 

 blastoderm lying between the otoc3'Sts behind, the blastopore in front, 

 and the pedal ganglia on the sides (figs. 29 and 30). It is at first wide 

 in -transverse direction and narrow antero-posteriorly and it is bilobed, 

 the two lobes being separated on the side of the blastopore by a groove 

 in which the blastoderm remains thin (figs. 30 et seq.). The foot then 

 gradually rises above the general level of the blastoderm until it 

 becomes prominent, becoming about half as wide from side to side as 

 in earlier stages (figs. 33, 34); at the same time it takes into itself the 

 pedal ganglia and otocysts. 



At the posterior end of the groove between the two lobes an invagi- 

 nation is formed which becomes the pedal gland (P. G., figs. 33, 34). 

 A transverse furrow on the surface of the f(X)t then constricts off a 

 smaller anterior lobe, the propodium, from a larger posterior one, the 

 mesopodium and metapodium (figs. 35, 36). 



9. LARVAL AND DEFINITIVE KIDNEYS. 



Rumiing laterally from the foot a ridge of cells develops on the right 

 and left sides; this ridge lies some distance posterior to the velum, 

 with which it is nearly parallel; its free border, or crest, becomes cre- 

 nated (figs. 34, 35, Ex.K.). This is the larval or external kidney and, 

 as in other prosobranchs, consists of large ectodermal cells which become 

 loaded with nitrogenous waste substances. It is an interesting fact 

 that the larval kidney of Fulgur does not appear until after the basis 

 of the i)ermanent kidney is present (figs. 32, 33), and its relatively 

 small size seems to indicate that it is never an important excretory 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 349 



oriian in this animal. I have not observed the destiny of these excre- 

 tory cells in Fiilyur, l>ut in Crcpidula, where they are relatively larger, 

 they are ultimately pinched off and set free with their load of nitrogen- 

 ous waste. In Fasciolaria, as Glaser (1905) has shown, the external 

 kidneys become colossal organs, which are filled with nitrogenous 

 waste substance. Here the great size of these organs is probably 

 associated with high metabolism of nitrogen, the result in this case of 

 the cannibalism of the embryo. The small size of these organs in 

 Fulgur probably indicates low nitrogenous metabolism in the embryo. 

 The definitive kidney has no structural connections with the larval 

 ones. It appears as a single structure near the gastral end of the 

 intestine (figs. 32 et seq.), and a duct develops from it which runs along 

 the right side (left in ventral view) of the intestine (figs. 34, 35). As 

 a result of the invagination which forms the mantle chamber, both the 

 kidney and the intestine come to lie in the roof of that chamber, and 

 since the kidney lies near the edge of the mantle it undergoes little 

 movement during this invagination ; the intestine, which lies farther 

 from the mantle edge, moves under the kidney during this invagination, 

 and thus the relative positions of these two organs are interchanged, the 

 kidney coming to lie on the left side of the intestine (fig. 36). 



10. GILL AND HEART. 



At its earliest appearance the gill lies on the anterior side of the 

 kidney and in close contact with it (figs. 33, 34). Before the formation 

 of the mantle chamber it is merely an aggregation of cells and shows no 

 characteristic structure. After the formation of the mantle chamber 

 it lies on the left side of the kidney and its anterior border becomes 

 crenated, each of these lobules giving rise later to a tentacle-like 

 process. 



The larval heart (figs. 35, 36, L.H.) appears as a blister under the 

 blastoderm at the right of the larval kidney (fig. 34). The walls of this 

 vesicle contain smooth nuiscle cells and are pulsatile. I have observed 

 no definite vessels leading to or from this heart, and it probably serves 

 merely to keep lymph moving through irregular channels. In later 

 stages the larval heart is carried up on to the dorsal side of the embryo 

 behind the head vesicle ami velum (fig. 36) ; this movement is a part of 

 the general twisting of all the organs, which were originally posterior 

 to the foot. 



I have not observed the manner of origin of the definitive heart and 

 have not been able to recognize its anlage, unless it may be the dark 

 body between the reference letters M and Pa in fig. 36. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jul}' 



IV. Conclusions. 



The development of the principal organs and organ systems of 

 Fulgur has now been described, with especial reference to their cell- 

 lineage and topographical relations. It has not been possible to 

 trace the entire cell-lineage of any organ, owing to the very large num- 

 ber of cells which are present before organs appear, but it is possible to 

 determine the quartet and usually the individual cell of the quartet 

 from which any organ arises. In a few cases (cerebral ganglion, velum, 

 intestine) organs may be traced back to individual cells of a stage 

 much later than the quartet formation, but in no case is it possible to 

 observe every division of the cells which enter into the formation of an 

 organ. This lack of a complete knowledge of the cell-lineage is not 

 peculiar to Fulgur, but is general among forms in which the cell-lineage 

 has been studied, and it is not a great hindrance to the study of the 

 localizations of morphogenetic substances and processes of the egg. 

 If groups of cells which give rise to certain organs can be traced back 

 to certain quartet cells, this is usually sufficiently detailed information 

 as to the cellular oiigin of an organ. In Fulgur it is unusually easy to 

 trace this connection between blastomeres and organs, owing to the 

 fact that the organs appear while the blastoderm is still a flat i)late. 



Next to the resemblances between Fulgur and Crepidula in the early 

 cleavages, there is no similarity between these forms more striking than 

 that which is found in the cellular origin of homologous organs. 

 Although the organs of these two genera may differ widely in size and 

 early position, there is not a single instance in which there is any good 

 reason for supposing that these organs have arisen from unlike cleav- 

 age cells of the early stages. On the other hand, there is the best of 

 evidence that homologous organs in Crepidula and Fulgur arise from 

 corresponding cells of the different quartets, and even from correspond- 

 ing cells of much later stages (60-cell stage), even though in still later 

 stages these organs may occupy widely different regions of the embryo, 

 as in the case of the cerebral ganglia. 



AVith regard to the later cleavages, it is not only impossible to follow 

 the lineage of individual cells imtil they give rise to organs, but it is 

 certain that the cells of these two genera cannot be individually com- 

 pared, since there are many more cells in Fulgur at a given stage of 

 differentiation than in Crepidula. For example, there are about 250 

 cells in the embryo of Crepidula at the time of the first appearance of 

 the shell gland, in Fulgur there are about 1,000 cells, and in any com- 

 parison of the cells at this stage it must be remembered that in general 

 four cells of the latter are equal to one of the former. Not onlj^ does 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPITIA. 351 



the number of cells differ in correspond iuju; stages of differentiation in 

 tliesc two forms, but e\cn in the same species there are variations and 

 irregularities in the later cleavages which are not present in the earlier 

 ones. When these irregularities of the later cleavages are compared 

 with the invariable features of the early ones, such as the segregation 

 of the ectoderm in three quartets of cells and the origin of the mesoderm 

 of the tnmk region from one cell of the fourth quartet, it is impossible 

 to avoid the conclusion that the early cleavages are of greater mor- 

 phogenetic value than the later ones. Furthermore, the conditions 

 found in Fulgiir, as compared with those in Crepidula, show that neither 

 the presence of a large amount of yolk in the egg before cleavage, nor 

 the modifications of the later stages, due to the presence of this yolk, 

 affect the localization of the morphogenetic materials and processes in 

 the earlier stages. The conclusion seems to be justified that the type 

 of this localization is a more general and fundamental character than 

 the form of gastrulation, or any other relatively late process in the 

 ontogeny. 



In Fulgur as in many other animals the egg shows polar differentia- 

 tion while it is still in the ovary, and even before yolk formation begins. 

 The yolk is laid down in all parts of the egg, and before matiu-ation one 

 pole is not noticeably richer in protoplasm than another. Witli the 

 maturation of the egg the segregation of the protoplasm and yolk 

 begins, most of the protoplasm passing to one pole and becoming the 

 future ectoderm, while the yolk remains at the opposite pole and with a 

 relatively small amount of protoplasm gives rise to the endoderm. 

 In the first tw^o cleavages this yolk is distributed equally to the four 

 quadrants of the egg, and since the blastopore forms at the vegetal pole, 

 the ectoderm must extend equally (but not synchronously) over the 

 yolk in all directions. In the early stages of this overgrowth the 

 anterior portion of the blastoderm extends more rapidly than the 

 posterior portion, and by this means the cerebral and buccal ganglia are 

 brought into close relation with the other orgaixs present in the posterior 

 margin of the blastoderm. 



In many animals the yolk is not distributed equally to the four 

 quadrants of the egg {e.g., Urosalpijix, Nassa, Denlalium, Chdtopterus, 

 etc.), and wherever this is the case a "yolk lobe" of considerable size 

 is present. When one macromere is much larger than the others a large 

 yolk lobe is attached to it ; when the cleavage is approximately equal the 

 yolk lobe, if present, is small. Crampton (1896) has shown that the 

 removal of the yolk lobe causes the absence of mesoderm in Illyonassa; 

 and in his beautiful "Studies on Germinal Localization" Wilson (1904) 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



has found that when the polar lobe of Dentaliuvi is removed the resulting 

 larva lacks the post-trochal region and probably also the mesodermal 

 bands. Both of these authors found that following the removal of the 

 lo])e the four quadrants of the egg were equal in size. It cannot be 

 assumed that the size of the lobe is proportional to the size of the 

 somatoblasts 2d and 4rf, or to the size of the post-trochal region, or to 

 the quantity of mesoderm which is formed later. In Fulgur, Crepidula 

 and ail other cases in which the quadrants are nearly equal in size, the 

 yolk lobe is much smaller than the post-trochal region or the mesento- 

 mere 4c?, or even the mesodermal bands; while in Illi/onassd, Tritia, 

 and other forms in which one of the macromeres is much, larger than 

 the others, the yolk lobe is much larger than the cell 4rf. On the other 

 hand the lobe is usually associated with unequal division of the 

 yolk, and its size is proportional to that inequality. Therefore I 

 believe that the real significance of the yolk lobe is to be found in its 

 relation to equal and unequal cleavage. 



Since the blastopore forms at the vegetal pole in all gasteropods, so 

 far as known, unequal division of the yolk must lead to unequal growth 

 on the part of the blastoderm: if the posterior m^cromere is large the 

 overgrowth must be greater in a posterior direction than in an}^ other; 

 if the anterior macromere is larger than the others, as in certain 

 opisthobranchs, the blastoderm must grow more anteriorly than 

 posteriorly. When all the macromeres are equal the overgrowth must 

 take place equally in all directions, though the case of Fulgur shows 

 that it may be accelerated at one time in one portion of the blastoderm 

 and at another time in another portion. 



The most striking difference Vjetween Fidgur and other gasteropods is 

 found in the manner of this overgrowth, and consequently in the manner 

 in which the different organ bases are carried from theu" point of origin 

 to tlieir definitive positions in the embryo. In both the point of origin 

 and the definitive position of the various organs there is fundamental 

 agreement between Fulgur and Crepidula, but in the manner of passing 

 from their point of origin to their final position there is marked dissimi- 

 larity. In Crepidula the region of greatest growth of the blastoderm 

 lies on the dorsal side between the anlagen of the cerebral ganglia and 

 the shell gland ; in Fidgur it lies anterior to the cerebral anlagen. In 

 Crepidula, as a result of this condition, the cerebral ganglia are carried 

 forward around the anterior end of the embryo vmtil they come to lie 

 anterior to the mouth on the ventral side. In Fulgur the same ganglia 

 are carried backward around the yolk until they finally reach the same 

 position on the ventral side of the embryo. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILADELl'lIIA. 353 



It. has been customary hitherto to regard such ])cculiarities of the 

 embryo as primary, and the associated peculiarities of cleavage stages 

 as secondary adaptations to these later appearing peculiarities; but 

 this puts the cart before the horse. The adaptations of cleavage are 

 adaptations to conditions pre-existing in the egg, and not adaptations 

 to conditions which appear later in the embryo or adult. Given the 

 enormous yolk of Fulgur or the small yolk of Crcpidida plana, and the 

 embryo must adapt itself to these conditions of the egg; or, in other 

 words, the earlier conditions in ontogeny stand in the relation of cause 

 to the later conditions, and not the reverse. 



When I first observed in Fulgur the great modifications in the loca- 

 tion of organ bases, which is unlike anything hitherto described, and 

 found, for example, that the cerebral ganglia and velum were located 

 in the posterior lip of the blastopore, I thought, for a time, that here 

 was a new^ pattern of germinal localization, and that the generalization 

 that homologous structures always come from homologous regions of 

 the egg had broken down. Further study has shown that this is not 

 the case, and that the great modifications in the location of embryonic 

 organs in Fulgur are not primary but secondary, while the localization 

 pattern in the early cleavages is the same as in other gasteropods. 



Hence I regard the case of Fulgur as a triumph for the method and 

 doctrine of cell-lineage. Those who see in this method only 'the 

 counting of cells,' 'mitotic book-keeping,' 'the drudgery of dull minds,' 

 have missed the whole point and significance of this method, which is 

 not to name every cleavage cell, but to determine in what areas of the 

 egg certain morphogenetic processes are located. To know that such 

 processes may be localized in the egg is valuable information, even 

 though the pattern of this localization should differ for every animal; 

 but to have discovered that through all the multifarious modifications 

 which are found in the embryos and adults of great animal classes, such 

 as the gasteropods or annelids, this same pattern runs unchanged, — 

 this is illuminating. 



Summary. 



1. The eggs of Fulgur carica are among the largest of gasteropod 

 eggs, their relatively great size being due almost exclusively to the 

 great quantity of yolk which they contain. These eggs are thirteen 

 times the diameter and about 2,000 times the volume of those of 

 Crepidula plana, with which particularly they are compared. 



2. The cleavage of the egg of Fulgur is, cell for cell, like that of 

 Crepidula up to the GG-GO-cell stage, the only difference being in the 




35-i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J^^lly, 



relative sizes of the macromeres in these two genera. Some of the 

 individual features in which the cleavage of Fulgur resembles that of 

 Crepidula are the following : 



a. The direction, rh3^thm and quality of each cleavage is the same. 



b. The first and second cleavages are equal; the first is transverse 

 to the median plane of the embryo, the second coincides with that 

 plane; a small yolk lobe is formed during each of these cleavages. 



c. The ectoderm is segregated in three quartets of micromeres. 



d. The first formed member of the fourth quartet, M, is the mesento- 

 mere; its anterior portion gives rise to the mesodermal bands and its 

 posterior portion to the intestine. 



e. The remaining members of the fourth quartet, viz., 4 A, 45, 4C 

 are entomeres and give rise to all portions of the alimentary canal and 

 its outgrowths, save the intestine and stomoda3um. 



/. The first quartet of ectomeres forms a "cross", wdth its centre at 

 the apical pole and with anterior, posterior, right and left arms. Be- 

 tween the arms are the "turret" cells, and between these and the apical 

 pole are the "rosette" cells; all of these cells are derived from the first 

 quartet, except the "terminal" cells of the arms which are derived 

 from the second quartet. The cross is formed of exactly the same cells 

 in Fidgur as in Crepidula, but it is neither so distinct in form iwr so 

 persistent. 



g. The second and third quartets surround the first and are com- 

 posed of cells which divide in the same order and direction as in Crepi- 

 dula. 



3. In later cleavages many more ectoderm cells are formed in Fulgur 

 than in Crepidida at corresponding stages of differentiation. 



4. The overgrowth of the yolk is highly peculiar in Fulgur. By 

 very great extension of the anterior half of the blastoderm, while the 

 posterior half remains relatively fixed, all the organ bases are carried 

 to the posterior margin of the blastoderm, where they form a kind of 

 germ ring. Subsequently the posterior margin also moves over the 

 yolk, so that the blastopore is finally formed at the vegetal pole. 



5. Before the extension of the anterior portion of the blastoderm 

 an apical invagination of ectoderm cells is formed in the region of the 

 anterior arm of the cross. This invagination subsequently flattens 

 out and completely disappears. Its function seems to be connected 

 with the rapid extension of this part of the blastoderm. 



6. The cerebral ganglia arise on each side of the apical invagination, 

 probably from the anterior "rosette" cells. The velar cells arise 

 around the outer margins of the ganglia, probably from the anterior 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLI'IIIA. 355 



"turrot'' colls. By the rapid growth of the anterior portion of the 

 blastoderm these organ bases arc forced far apart and posteriorly vintLl 

 they come to lie in the posterior margin of the blastoderm, antl by a 

 continuation of this movement they are carried around to the ventral 

 side of the eml^ryo, where the two halves of these organs approach 

 each other and finally unite in front of the mouth. 



7. The paired buccal ganglia arise lateral to the cerebral and prob- 

 al)ly from derivatives of 2a and 2c; they extend over the yolk in the 

 same manner as the cerebrals and finally concresce on the ventral side 

 of the embryo posterior to the mouth. 



8. All other organs (shell gland, pedal, pleural, parietal and abdomi- 

 nal ganglia, foot, intestine, kidney, gill, heart, etc.) arise from the 

 median posterior portion of the blastoderm, and chiefly, if not entirely, 

 from the two "somatoblasts," 2d and 4d. The bases of all of these 

 organs, except the last three, appear when the blastoderm is still a small 

 plate, and in the case of paired organs they are from the first connected 

 across the median plane and do not, therefore, undergo concrescence. 

 The origin of these post-oral organs from the two somatoblasts is 

 strikingly like the condition found in annelids, and the elongation of 

 the bod}' of the gasteropod through the shell gland is similar to the 

 elongation of the body of the annelid. 



9. All homologous organs arise from corresponding cleavage cells 

 in Fulgur, Crepidula, and probably all other gasteropods. Great 

 increase in yolk does not modify the type of germinal localization, 

 though it does profoundly modify gastridation and later stages. 



10. This indicates that germinal localization in the egg and in the 

 cleavage stages is more fundamental and primitive than are the later 

 processes of ontogeny. 



CYTOLOGICAL. 



11. During quartet formation the nuclei of the macromeres divide 

 at relati^•ely short intervals and they remain relatively small, the ratio 

 of maximum nuclear diameter to cell diameter ("Kernplasma-relation" 

 K/p) being 1 : 24. In later stages the resting period of the nucleus is 

 very long and the ratio rises to 1 : 12. The size of the nucleus is 

 therefore dependent not only upon the size of the cell, but also upon 

 the length of the resting period. There is in this species no fixed 

 ratio of nuclear size to cell size, and the cause of cell division cannot be 

 found in the maintenance of a constant ratio. 



12. After the formation of the fourth quartet the macromeres do 

 not again divide, although the nuclei do. In the first and second 

 cleavages the macromeres divide equally; this apparent anomaly is 




356 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



probably due to the fact that cytoplasm is distributed through the 

 yolk in the early stages and is lacking in the later ones. This suppressed 

 cleavage of the yolk in the later stages is an approach to the condition 

 found in meroblastic eggs. 



References. 

 No attempt is made in this paper to review recent important con- 

 tributions on cell-lineage, foremost among which must be mentioned 

 the important memoirs of Robert (1903) on Trochus, Wierzejski (1905) 

 on Physa, and Carazzi (1906) on Aplysia. The papers here listed are 

 those mentioned in the body of this work. 



Blochmann, F. 1(S82. Ueber die Entwicklung der Neritlna fluviatalis, Zeit. 



wiss. Zool, XXXVI. 

 Brooks, \V. K. 1879. The Acquisition and Loss of Food Yolk by Molluscan 



Eggs, Studies from Biol. Lab. Johns Hopkins University, Vol. I. 

 CoNKLiN, E. G. 1897. Tlie Embryology of Crepidula, Jour. Morph., XIII. 

 . 1902. Karkokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, Fertilization 



and Cleavage of Crepidula, Jmir. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. XII. 

 Crampton, H. E. 1896. Experimental Studies on Gasteropod Development, 



Arch. Eutwm., III. 

 FuJiTA, T. 1895. Preliminary Note on the Mesoderm Formation of Pulmonata. 



Zool. Mag. Tokio, Vol. VII. 

 Glaser, O. C. 1905. Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Faaciolaria tuJipa (var. 



distans) und deren larvale Excretionsorgane, Zeit. wi.ss. Zool., LXXX. 

 Hertvvig, R. 1903. Ueber Korrelation von Zell- imd Kerngrosse und ihre 



Bedeutung ftir die geschlechtliche Differenzierung und die Theilung der 



Zelle, Biol. Centrcdb., XXIII. 

 LiLLiE, F. R. 1895. The Embryology of the Unionid.ne, Jour. Morph., Vol. X. 

 McMuRRiCH, J. P. 1886. A Contribution to the Embryology of the Proso- 



branch Gasteropods, Studies from Biol. Lab. Johns HopkinsUniversity jVol.lJJ . 



. 1896. The Yollc liobe and Centrosome of Fulgur carica, Anat. Anz., XII. 



Morgan, T. H. 1893. Experimental Studies on Teleost Eggs, Anat. Anz., 



VIII. 

 Sarasin, p. 1882. Entwicklungsgeschichte der Bythinia tentaculata, Arh. 



Zool. Inst. Wilrzburg, VI. 

 ViGUiER, C. 1898. Contribution a I'etude du development de la Tethys fuii- 



hriata, Arch. Zool. Exp., 3, XVI. 

 Wilson, E. B. 1904. Experimental Studies on Germinal Localization: I. 



The Germ Regions in the Egg of Dentalium, Jour. Exp. Zool., I. 



Reference Letters. 



A, B, C, D, Macromeres. 



]a, lb, etc., First quartet cells. 



2a, 2b, etc.. Second quartet cells. 



3a, 36, etc.. Third quartet cells. 



4d, Mesentoblast. 



4.4, 4B, 4C, Secondary macromeres. 



A.L, Apical invagination. 



Bp., Blastopore. 



Cb., Cerebral ganglion. 



Be., Buccal ganglion. 



PL, Pleural ganglion. 



Pd., Pedal ganghon. 



Pa., Parietal ganglion. 



Ab., Abdominal ganglion. 



E., Eye. 



G., Gill. 



H.V., Head vesicle. 



/., Intestine. 



K., Kidney. 



Ex.K., Larval kidney. 



L.H ., Larval heart. 



L.M., "Larval mesoderm." 



M., Mantle. 



Ms., Mesodermal bands. 



O., Otocvst. 



P.G., Pedal gland. 



Sh., Shell eland. 



T., Tentacle. 



V ., Velum. 



Cm.M ., Columellar muscle. 



Oc, (Esophagus. 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'illLADELI'IlI A. 357 



])ks, KIl'TION (»F rLATKS XX 1 1 I — X \ \1 1 1. 



All till' liiiurcs were drawn at tlic staj:^' IcN'cl witii tlic aid of tlio camera lucida; 

 plates XXIII, XX\ II and XWIII under Zi-i.ss Apoclironiatic Oijj. Itj nun., 

 Go. 1; plates X.\I\', .\.\V and XX\I with Obj. S mm., ( )e. 4. The figures of 

 the former plati's are therefore magnified (12 diameters; of the latter, 124 diam- 

 eters. In the process of reproduction the lifiures were reduci'd a little more 

 than half, so that as they appear on the plates they represent a maf^nilication of 

 about 30 diameters and (iO diameters respectively. All the drawings are of <'ggs 

 or embryos of Ftdgur carica, fixed, stained and mounted as described in the first 

 section of tliis paper. 



Plate XXIII. — Entire eggs; 1-cell to 24-cell stages. 



Fig. 1. — Unsegmented egg, sliowing first cleavage spindle and surroimding 

 cytoplasm. 



Fig. 2.^Two-cell stage, showing lajotropic turning of cytoplasm, nuchn and 

 spheres preparatory to the second cleavage. 



Fig. 3. — Four-cell stage; the positions of nuclei and spheres indicates that 

 the transverse furrow is here the second one. 



Fig. 4. — Eight-cell stage, showing first quartet of micromeres which have 

 turned in a dexiotropic direction ; in two of the macromeres are nuclear 

 spindles for the formation of tlie second cjuartct, which arises in a 

 la'otropic direction. 



Fig. 5. — Sixteen-cell stage. The first quartet ha.s divided heotropically, 

 giving rise to the "apical" cells centrally and the small " turret" cells 

 periplierally. The seeond quartet cells are dividing in two quadrants, 

 and the third quartet cells are arising dexiotropically from the micro- 

 meres. 



Fig. 6. — Twenty-four-cell stage, resulting from tlie completion of all tlie 

 divisions initiated in the preceding figure. 



Pl.vte XXIV. — Blastoderms during the earlier stages of cleavage. 



Fig. 7. — Same stage as sliowii in fig. 6, but magnified twice as much ; twenty 

 micromeres and four macromeres ; the separation of the ectoderm from 

 the macromeres is now complete. 



Fig. 8. — Forty-five-cell stage. Every cell of the preceding stage has dixided . 

 or is dividing, except the macromeres A, B and C. The '"apical" cells 

 have given rise to the "basals" of the arms of the cross; one .second 

 quartet cell in each cjuadrant has produced the "tip" cell (stippled) 

 of eacli arm: the tliird ciuartet cells are dividing hrotropically, and the 

 macromere D has produced the mesentoblast cell, -id. 



Fig. 9. — Fifty-five-cell stage. All divisions initiated in the preceding figure 

 are here' completed, and in addition the basal cells of the transverse 

 arms of the cross have divided. The mesentoblast (4d) has given rise 

 to six cells (two large and four small ones), and the macromeres A , B and 

 C have given off the other members of the fourth quartet, Aiz., 4.1, iB 

 and 4C. 



Fig. 10. — Fifty-six-cell stage. Similar to the preceding, but showing the 

 basal cellOf the anterior arm of the cross di\-ided and spindles in sonie 

 of the cells derivecl from tlie second quartet. The cross is shown in 

 heavy outline; there are three cells in each of the arms except the 

 posterior one. The centre of the cross is here, and elsewhere, marked 

 by a cross line, the "tip" cells of the arms, by stipples. 



Fig. 11. — Irregular Sl-cell stage; derived from prececUng stage by divi.sion 

 of the basal cell of the posterior arm, of eight cells of the third quartet, 

 of eight cells of the second quartet, and of eight turret cells. 



Fig. 12. — Eight v-five-cell stage: derived from the" preceding by the com- 

 pletion of iill divisions there indicated and by the subdivision of the 

 basal and middle cells in the transverse arms of the cross. 



24 




35S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



PL-4.TE XX^'. — Blastoderms, showing later stages of cleavage. 



Fig. 13. — Another S5-oell stage, eonsistiiig of 72 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres 

 ajid 7 entomeres. 



Fig. 14.— Stage with 111 cells ; 98 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres and 7 entomeres. 

 This is a more advaneed stage than the two following ones. 



Fig. 15.. — Stage with 89 cells; 70 ectomeres, 6 mesentomeres, 7 entomeres. 



Fig. 16. — Stage with 104 cells; 91 ectomeres, G mesentomeres, and 7 ento- 

 meres. 



Fi^"' 17. — Stage with 121 cells; 101 ectomeres, 10(?) mesentomeres and 7 

 entomeres. 



Fig IS. — Stage of about 320 cells. The ectomeres are very numerous and 

 are somewhat depressed below the general level in the region anterior 

 to the apical pole. The nuclei of the secondary macromeres, 4A, 45 

 and 4C, are dividing. 



Plate_XXVI. — Blastoderms, from the time of formation of the apical invagina- 

 tion to the appearance of the primordia of definitive organs. All 

 nuclei and cell boundaries, where shown, were drawii vnth 'the camera 

 lucida, so that their number and location are fairly accurate. 



Fig. 19. — Stage of approximately 512 cells. The apical invagination (A.I.) 

 is a deep pit just anterior to the animal pole. The mesentoblast (4c/) 

 has given rise to the mesodermal bands (Ms.). 



Fig. 20. — Stage slightly more advanced than the preceding, sho\\'ing the 

 apical invagination as a tubular ingrowth, with its opening near the 

 anterior edge of the blastoderm ; the nuclei of the secondary macromeres 

 (4A, 4B and 4C) are di\'iding a second time. 



Fig. 21. — Stage immediately after the flattening out of the apical invagina- 

 tion, only a trace of which is here sho-mi. On each side of the latter is 

 a grovip of cells, lying Ijeneath the surface of the blastoderm, and repre- 

 sented with solid black nuclei, whicli are probal^ly "larval mesoderm" 

 cells (L.M.) ; the superficial group of cells in this region ultimately gives 

 rise to the cerebral ganglion (Cb.), while the aggregation of cells lying 

 between and in front of the mesodermal bands (Ms.) is the primordium 

 of the shell gland. Two of the secondary macromeres (4.1 and 4C) 

 have, exceptionally, divided. 



J7g 22. — In this and the following figures all traces of the apical invagina- 

 tion have disappeared; in other respects this figure is similar to the 

 preceding one. 



Fig. 23. — Stage of about 1,000 cells, in wJiich the shell gland is plainly -visible 

 as a disk of cells, slightly depressed in the middle, and in which the 

 primordia of the cerebral (Cb.), buccal (Be), pleural (PL), and pedal 

 (Pd.) ganglia and of the intestine (In.) are recognizable as groups of 

 cells. The row of nuclei on the outer side of each cerebral ganglion 

 probably represents the primordium of the velum, while the more deeply 

 staining area connecting the two cerebral ganglia across the apical pole 

 probably corresponds to the "cephalic neural plate" of annelids. The 

 nuclei of the secondary macromere (iB) are dividing a third time, but 

 the cell body remains undivided. 



Fio-. 24. — Stage in all regards similar to the preceding, except that the 

 blastoderm has grown larger. The nuclei in the macromeres have here 

 reached their maximum size (cf. the nuclei of the same cells in figs. 7 

 and 10). 



Plate XXVII. — Entire eggs, showing stages from the appearance of organ 

 primordia to the completion of the overgrowiih of the yolk. 



Figs. 25 and 26. — Stages similar to the one sho^^^l in fig. 24. The primordia 

 of different organs are indicated by the closely stippled areas, the stipples 

 representing nuclei. 



Yig, 27. — Stage in \Yhich the blastoderm has extended through the growth 

 of its anterior portion, over about one-third of the yolk. The organ 

 primordia are confined to a small area in the posterior margin of the 

 blastoderm. The nutlei of the macromeres are dividing. 




1907. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPIIIA. 359 



Fig. 28. — Stage in vvliich the biastoilorm li:i.s overgrown ahrxit one-half of 

 the yolk. Priniordiu of the following organs are ,sh(jwn: Cerebral 

 ganglia {€!>.), velum (K.), buccal gangha (Be), i)leural ganglia (PL), 

 pedal gangha (Pd.), otocysts (between ])lc.ural ami piMhil ganglia), 

 intestine (In.), parietal gangUa (ou eadi side of intestine), and .shell 

 gland. 



Fig. 29. — Stage in which about two-thirds of the yolk ha.s been overgrown. 

 In addition to the organ primordia already" named, the foot is also 

 \isible between the two pedal ganglia. 



Fig. 30. — Final stages in the overgrowth of tiie yolk. The blastopore (Bp.) 

 is a relatively small area of yolk at the vegetal pole, still uncovered by 

 tlie bhvstoderm. The secondary macromeres (4A, 4B and 4C) lie in the 

 lips of tlie blastopore, and wliile they contain many nuclei their cell 

 boilies are still undivided. Th(! velum has begun to extend forward 

 around the anterior side of the blastopore, while the buccal ganglia 

 (Be.) lie in its lateral borders. All the organ primordia named above 

 are plainly \'isible, and in addition the abdominal ganglion may be seen 

 on the left of the intestine. 



Plate ^XXVIII. — Entire embryos, from the closure of the olastopore to the 



formation of the larv^a. 

 Fig. 31.— Embryo showing the blastopore very small. Tiis margin of the 



shell gland has extended widely, while the area within this margin is 



covered by the embryonic shell (Sh.). 

 Fig. 32. — Stage showing the closure of the blastopore and the establishment 



of the pre-oral and post-oral velar bands The margin of tlie shell 



gland sliows a deep notch posterior to the intestine, which grows more 



pronounced in later stages. The two cerebral ganglia are approaching 



each other in front of the blastopore. The primordium of the permanent 



kidney (K.) is recognizable. 

 Fig. 33. — Older stage, in which nearly one-half of the embryo is covenid by 



the shell. The cerebral ganglia are united by a commissure in front of 



the mouth. 

 Fig. 34. — A stage in which about two-thirds of the embryo is covered by the 



shell. 

 Fig. 3.5. — Stage showing head vesicle (II.V.), larval heart (L.H.), mantle 



(M.), columellar muscle (Cm.M.), external kidneys (Ex.K.) and tentacles, 



(T.) in addition to the other organ primordia named in the description 



of figs. 28-30. 

 Fig. 36. — r^ater embryo, showing the formation of the m.antle cavity, gill, 



velar lobes and the twisting of the nerve loop. The primordia of all 



important organs are present at this stage. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



NOTES ON SOME PACIFIC CIRRIPEDES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following notes on Japanese and Northwestern Pacific species 

 of Scalpellum^ are based upon material collected by the U. S. Fish 

 Commission Str. Albatross in 1906, and are preliminary to an illustrated 

 report to be published later. A new Balanus, the second to be made 

 known of a peculiar group of forms living imbedded in sponges, is 

 described from material presented to the Academy by Mr. C. R. Orcutt. 



Of the "imperfectly calcified" species of Scalpellum, several are 

 now known from Japanese waters, belonging to two slightly different 

 groups, the group of S. intermedium and that of S. japonicum. 



In the group of S. intermedium the small inframedian latus is nar- 

 rowly triangular, widest at the base, with the umbo above and apical ; 

 the upper latus may be either triangular, biramose, or notched basally. 

 Here belong the Japanese S. nipponense Pils., and from southern 

 waters, *S'. intermedium Hoek and S. laccadivicum Annandale. All of 

 these are very closely related, and may even prove to be varieties of a 

 single species when fuller series of the growth stages come to light. 



In the group of 8. japonicum Hoek, the inframedian latus is broad 

 above, narrow at the base, with the umbo basal or near the base. Some 

 very interesting forms of S. japonicum were taken by the Albatross at 

 Stations 4,972 and 4,967, off the east coast of Nippon. They show 

 wide variation in the shape of the calcified portions of the upper and 

 carinal latera. Two individuals from Station 4,972 diverge so widely 

 from the type of S. japonicum that a subspecific name may be useful. 



Scalpellum japonicum metapleurum n. subsp. 



Differs from S. japonicum. chiefly by the shape of the upper latus, 

 which is calcified only in a band parallel to its tergal border. 



Scalpellum gonionotum n. sp. 



A species closely resembling Scalpellum balanoidcs Hoek, but larger, 

 and differing by the angular dorsal outline of the capituhuu and the 

 shape of the carina, which is straight, with very narrow sides and a 

 flat roof. There is a linear rostrum, not reaching to the base, or cov- 



' Pulilislicd l)y pcnnission of the Commissioner of Fislieries. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



cred there by the rostral latera. The pcchiiicle is closely covered with 

 imbricating scales. 



Length of capituluni 7, breadth o.G nnn. 



Albatross Station 4,901. 

 Scalpellum weltnerianum n. sp. 



A species with fourteen loosely juxtaposed valves, regularly arched 

 carina with apical umbo, rounded roof, in section like the letter U, 

 and straight occludent border. There are very sparsely scattered 

 hairs 2 to 3 mm. long, chiefly near the occludent margin. The paired, 

 plates have a sculpture of close radial riblets. Tergum erect and acute. 

 Upper latus about twice as high as wide. Rostrum rather large, 

 lozenge-shaped, with a median rib. Rostral latus quadrangular, as 

 high as wide. Inframedian latus rather narrow, triangular, wdth acute 

 apical umbo. Carinal latus wdth convex carinal and concave upper 

 margins, the umbo apical, incurved. The carina extends in a narrow 

 triangle between the carinal latera to the peduncle. Peduncle clothed 

 with projecting scales curved in at their apices, arranged in six rows 

 of about fifteen scales each. 



Length of capitulum 11.5, breadth 5 mm.; length of peduncle about 

 5 mm. j >•>'■ 



Albatross Station 4,918, off Kyushu, in 361 fathoms, on a crinoid 

 pimuile. August 13, 1900. 



A very distinct species, shaped like /S. album, but strongly sculptured. 



Balanu s orcutti n. sp. Plate XXIX, figs. 1-7. 



A species closely related to B. declivis Darwin, living wholly imbedded 

 in sponges. 



Walls conical, with a small oval orifice and concave membranous 

 base. The carina is double the length of the other plates, strongly 

 arcuate, its projecting lower end tongue-shaped. The rostrum is 

 slightly longer than the lateral plates. The radii and alaj are well 

 sunken and smooth; the parietes marked with growth-lines and deep 

 fine wTinkles, oblique to the growth-lines, and in places broken into 

 long granules. The sheath is closely sculptured transversely with low 

 ridges and covered with yellowish cuticle densely ciliated along the 

 ridges. Below the sheath the plates are vertically ridged, especially 

 the carina. 



The scutum is triangular, densely sculptured with thread-like 

 lamelhc parallel to the basal margin. The articular ridge Is about 

 half the length of the plate, wide and triangular. The adductor ridge 

 is distinct but low. The cavities of the adductor and depressor 

 muscles are deep. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julv, 



The ■torc:;um is wide and triangular, the scutal and carinal margins 

 straight. It is sculptured externally like the scutum; without a dis- 

 tinct spur, which is represented only by a slight wave in the basal mar- 

 gin. Internally there is a very short articular ridge and furrow; 

 elsewhere the surface is irregularly roughened with short rugae and some 

 longitudinal wTinldes converging to the apex. 



Height of the wall (to base of carina) 18 mm.; length of base 11, 

 breadth 9.2 mm. 



San Ysidro, Lower California. Type No. 1,783, A. N. S. P., collected 

 and presented by C. R. Orcutt, 1889. There are also specimens from 

 the same place and collector in coll. U. S. National Museum. 



The barnacles live wholly imbedded in sponges and can be found 

 only by breaking them up. Balanus orcutti differs from B. dcclivis 

 Darwin^ of the West Indies, by the peculiar sculpture of the external 

 surface, which is obliquely corrugated or tuberculate in places, and by 

 the shapes of the opercular valves. In B. dcclivis the scutimi is wider, 

 its greatest breadth contained twice in the length, while in B. orcutti 

 the breadth is contained fully two and one-half times in the length. 

 The tergurn, on the other hand, is wider in B. orcutti, with a much less 

 developed "spur," and a less wide inflected scutal area is seen in the 

 interior view than Darwin figures for B. declivis. These characters 

 show no noticeable variation in the series examined. 



The specimens are dry, and the cirri and other internal parts have 

 been destroyed. 



Explanation of Plate XXIX, 



Fig. I. — Balanvs orcutti, carinal view of the wall. 



Fig. 2. — Lateral view of the wall. 



Fig. 3. — Rostral view of the wall. 



Figs. 4. .'5. — Interior and external views of the scutum. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Interior and external views of the tergum. 



^ Monograph on the Cirripedia, Balanidoe, p. 275. B. d.edivis has also been 

 reported from Batian, Moluccas, bv Weltner, Verz. rccenten Cirrivedenarten, p. 

 270. 




1007.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELrillA. 363 



ON THE SYNONYMIC HISTORY OF THE GENERA CLAVA MARTYN, AND 

 CERITHIUM BRUGUIiiRE. 



15Y WILLIAM HEALEV DALL. 



The syiioiiyinic history of these genera is quite complicated, espe- 

 cially if one takes into consideration the minor subdivisions. 



Most writers have hesitated to undertake revision of the Cerithiacea 

 on account of the difficulties involved. During recent years the suljject 

 has been recalled to attention bj^ the elucidation of the true dates of the 

 volumes of Martvn's Universal Conchologist and by the publication of 

 Part VII of yi. Cossmann's Essais de PaleoconcJwlogic Comparee, which 

 included a review of the Cerithiacea. 



The conclusions in regard to the validity of certain generic names 

 established by Martyn, which resulted from my determination as to 

 their correct date, has been dissented from by M. Cossmann in his Essai^ 

 and he s\ipports his arguments by statements of fact which, if uncon- 

 troverted. would establish his case. 



The difference is. in the main, caused by a different viewpoint as to 

 the reformation of nomenclature, his argimients for which are supported 

 b}' inaccurate citations. 



In 1830 systematists considered it entirely proper to "ignore" little 

 known names; to alter names which did not suit the Latinity or the 

 taste of the person writing; to neglect more or less completely the early 

 history of names; and to cite prelinnean and polynomial writers for 

 systematic synonymy. These ideas, as we all know, were but slowly 

 modified, since they ai)pealed to the common preference for what is 

 familiar, as well as to the indolence and carelessness of the hasty or 

 amateur writer. As all know who have had occasion to use his ver}' use- 

 ful summaries, .M. Cossmaim has not, so far, entirely freed himself from 

 these prepossessions, and has even on more than one occasion intimated 

 that the acceptance of one or the other name of two in conflict should 

 depend on the eminence of the author originating the name, rather than 

 on the priority of publication ; while his indignation at the resurrection 

 of "obscure" names seems both sincere and profound. 



One cannot but feel some sympathy with the regret that familiar 

 (if erroneous) names nuist be eliminated from general use. 

 • For some years I urged the maintenance of the first British Associa- 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



tion rules, which required a diagnosis to \-alidate a new genus or subgenus. 

 But these views not being acceptable to the majority of zoologists, and 

 the International Congresses having formulated a series of working rules 

 in which this principle was not enforced, and believing that a stable 

 nomenclature can only result from the general, impartial, rigidly exact 

 enforcement of the rules adopted, I have proceeded in my work on 

 that basis. 



That it has resulted in necessary changes was the fault of the illogical 

 and inaccurate methods of the early part of the nineteenth century, 

 wdiich ;M. Cossmann and those who sympathize with him seem to desire 

 to perpetuate. 



One cannot argue on such a question unless from a common stand- 

 point, which being wanting, I have left unanswered munerous criticisms 

 of my work by M. Cossmann, recognizing his right to his own standpoint 

 and the futility of argument under the circumstances. 



But if one admits perfect freedom in selection of principles, one does 

 not necessarily waive the right to have the facts in the case accurately 

 stated by the critics. In this direction M. Cossmann's writings leave 

 much to be desired. Lest I should be supposed to acquiesce in them, 

 I have thought it best to select a concrete case, that of M. Cossmann's 

 treatment of the history of Martyn's genus Clava, afterwards named ' 

 Cerithiiim by Bruguiere, which M. Cossmann has had occasion to notice 

 in his account of the Cerithiacea in the publication alluded to. 



In order to clear up the subject it is necessary to enter into the history 

 of the genus Ccrithium. This name was first applied by Fabio Colonna 

 in his treatise De aquatilibus^ to a shell afterwards named Ccrithium 

 adansonii by Bruguiere. The name was adopted by Adanson for a 

 group containing Cerites and Turritellas,^ one of which, Le Cerite (p. 

 155), he identified with Colonna's shell. These authors were prelin- 

 nean and, except historically, not entitled to be cited in synonymy. 



In 1792 Bruguiere adopted the name and for the first time introduced 

 it into binomial nomenclature,^ naming no type, but dividing the genus 

 into three unnamed groups, the first of which corresponds to Vertagus 

 Klein, the first species being C. obeliscus Bruguiere. 



In 1799 Lamarck published his Prodrome, ''' in which he cited as type 

 Murex aluco Linne. Two years later, however, in his Systhne,^ he 



' De aquatilibus aliisque nonullis animalibus, Roma, 1616, pp. 53 57 

 ^ Senegal, pp. 152-160, 1757. 



=• Enajcl. Math., I, pt. 2, 1792, p. 467. Not issued in 1789, as stated by Coss- 

 mann and various other authors. 

 * Prodr. noiiv. class., p. 73, 1799. 

 ^ Syst. des an. s. vert., p. 85, 1801. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHII-AnKI.PIIIA. 365 



mentions as example C. ncdvlosinn Bnigniere, which was by the latter, 

 as by Ad anson, supposed to be Colonna's original species. Roissy* 

 adopted the genus in Bruguiere's sense; his first species was a Veriagus 

 (Klein). In 1S07 TJnk^ followed Lamprck's Prodrome and put under 

 Ccrithiufn (Lam.) his species resembling VirkKjus (Klein), beginning 

 with C. (duco, which type was not then discriminated from the others, 

 and gave to Bruguiere's second group of true Cerites the name Aluco 

 with Ccrithium adansonii Bruguiere as his first species. Montfort in 

 1810« had also followed the lead of Lamarck in 1799 and figured Murex 

 ■vcrtagus as the type of Cerithium s. s. after eliminating 2\'lcscopium 

 and Pyrazus { = hercidca Martyn). Schumacher''' in 1817 has three 

 groujjs under Ccrithium, corresponding to Pt/ras'us Montfort (C. faluslre 

 Lam.), Cerithium Lamarck, 1801 (C . nodidosum Brug.),and Ccrithium 

 Lamarck, 1799 (C. aluco Linne). He also adopts Klein's name Vcrtagus 

 with two groups, the first typified by Murex vertagus Linne, and the 

 second by Murex asper Linne, which differs only by rougher sculpture. 



In referring to species I have corrected the synonymy, which is often 

 complicated, but refrain from inserting the details here. 



To return to the parallel nomenclature, in 1753 Klein, who was one 

 of the worst of the polynomialists, proposed the name Vcrtagus, his first 

 "species" being Murex vertagus Linne. This name of course had no 

 standing. Link in 1807^° used Vertagus for a totally different group 

 containing species of Tercbra, and Schumacher's return" to Klein's type 

 was necessarily too late to remedy matters. 



^lartyn's name Clava was first published*- not later than 1784, as 

 elsewhere proved beyond any doubt. Ihe fom* species published in 

 that year may be identified as follows : 



1. Clava rugota ^lartyn = M urcx asper Linne. 



2. Clava herculea Martyn = CfnY/zmm eheninum Brug. 



3. Clava maculata MsiTtyn = Cerithium clava Brug. 



4. Clava ruhus MsLY\.yn = Cerithium echinatum Lam. 



« Hist. nat. Moll., VI. p. lOG, 1S05. 



' J5e.sc/ir. Rostock Samml., p. 130, 1807. 



» Co?ich. Syst., II, p. .51 1, 1810. 



» Essni, pp. 223-4 and 227-8, 1817. 



'» Beschr. Rostock Sa7riml., p. 128, 1807. 



» Essai, p. 227, 1817. 



" Universal Concholoqist, I, table, Xns. 12, 13. In the second series of forty 

 plates, sometimes called by Martyn Vol. II, tips. 57 and .'iS represent respec- 

 tively Clnra macidala and C. nibus Martyn. The species in Vol. Ill date only 

 from 1786 and need not be considered in selecting a type, though of interest as 

 showing that Martyn 's conception of his genus Clava was practically the same as 

 Bruguiere's conception of his genus Cerithium, eight years later. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug. ^ 



/ 



These are referable to the following groups : 



3. Cerithium Lamarck, 1799; type C. aJuco L. {-\-Pseudovertagus Yig- 



nal, 1904). 



4. CeriY/imm Lamarck, 1801; type C. nodulosum Brug. {=Aluco Link,. 



1807). 

 2. Pyrazus Montfort, 1810; type C. ebcnimim Brug. 

 1. Vertigus (Klein) Schumacher, 1817 (not of Link, lS07)=C7am 



Martyn, 1784 + Rhinoclavis Swainson, 1840. 



It thus appears that, whether we adopt the "first species " rule or the 

 method of "elimination," Martyn's first species becomes his type. 

 Pseudovcrtagus {aluco) is, in my opinion, generically distinct from Clava 

 and much more nearly related to the true Cerites of Adanson and 

 Lamarck (1801). This conclusion is essentially the same as that 

 reached by Pilsbry.^^ 



The date of Gmelin's volume is of general interest to those working 

 in systematic Malacology, so that I have given the details; but for our 

 present purpose it is sufficient to say that Martyn's work (the first 80' 

 plates) is cited throughout Gmelin's volume, and some of his specific 

 names are adopted by Gmelin.^^ This conclusively shows that, what- 

 ever the date of either work, Martyn precedes Gmelin, and Clava 

 Gmelin, non Martyn, becomes a synonym. 



M. Cossmann further suggests that a genus Clavus precedes and 

 reduces Clava Martyn to synonymy. But in this case he has obviously 

 forgotten the fact, patent in any Latin lexicon, that Clava, a club, is a 

 feminine substantive not identical with the masculine Clavus, a naiL 

 The two are as distinct as Pica and Picus. 



In 1884*^ Jousseaume proposed to apply the name Clann to the group' 

 represented by Martyn's Clava tcssellata, a species which is No. 97 

 in his third volume. This course is inadmissible, because tessellata is 

 not one of the original species of 1784, but at earliest dates from 1786. 



The name Clava in Martyn's sense appeared subseciuently among 

 the early writers only once. In the anonymous Museum Calonnianum 

 it is used, practically as Martyn used it, for the whole group of Cerithimn- 

 in the Lamarckian sense. But, as I have hitherto maintained that a 

 work with no ostensible author or publisher is not entitled to be cited 

 as valid in systematic synonymy, I do not consider that this incident 



'^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. for 1901, p. 392. 



"Such as Buccinum scutulatum (Martyn) Gmelin, and Patella cah/ptra (Mar- 

 tyn) Gmelin. See also pp. 3483, 3490, 3498, 3690, 3691, 3697, 3702, and 3712 

 (and many others) for citations by Gmelin of Martyn's figures. 



" Bull. Soc. Zool. de France, IX," p. 23, 1884. 




lUOT.j NATURAL SC1P:NCES of niLLADELPIIIA. 3tJ7 



adds any strength to the case for the ailoption of ('lava Maityn as a 

 systematic name. 



Gmelin's use of the word C'Utra in a generic sense for a Coelenterate 

 animal, though citetl by Cossmann as of 1789, is really not earlier flian 



1791. and until very recently has been regarded as of 1792.'" 



On the twenty-sixth page of part \l of (imelin's work (j). o056, 

 No. 19) there is a reference to a paper of Rraun, pviljlished in the tenth 

 vohmie of the Scliriftcn der GescUschajt Naturforschcndc Freunde zu 

 Berlin, page 58. This pajx'r has been stated to have been issued in 



1792, and if so the volume in which it is cited cannot be of earlier date.'^ 

 Lately M. \'ignal, who has made a specialty of the Cerithiida^, proposed 



the name'^ Pseudovertagus for forms allied to C. aluco Linue, which 

 have an external appearance more or less like those of the type of 

 Murcx nrtagus Jiune, but want the strong spiral plication on the 

 pillar. After examining the specimens in the Museum, 1 am of the 

 opinion that this se})aration is absolutely justified. The fossil forms 

 in Europe, according to M. Cossmann, are of this latter type, and so 

 are most of the American species ; but we have at least one species in 

 the Chipola Oligocene which is unmistakably of the type of C. vertagus, 

 so far as the plicate axis is concerned. There is also a recent species 

 resembling C. kochii Philippi, at Barbados. The absence of the Indo- 

 Pacifie type from the European Tertiaries may therefore be due to its 

 absence from that region faunally, and not to any ancestral character 

 of the Pseudovertagus. 



We are now in a position to review the facts above cited . 



We may judge from the aggregate of the data that, disregarding 

 preiinnean polynomialists, the fu-st binomial author to recognize the 



" Gmelin's Vol. TI of his edition of the Si/stema Nnturcc bears no date on 

 the title. 

 ■ " The paper referred to is M. Ikaun, Beitr. zur Gesch. d. Enif];e\veider-\vurmer. 



See Cams and Ensleniann, Bild. Zool., I, p. 362, where the date of Hraun's paper 

 is given as 1792. .Vlso H. C. Bolton, Cat. Sci. Periodicals, second edition, p. 1023, 

 where the date of Vol. X, above referred to, is given as 1792. 



It is possible that Braun's paper was issued earlier in separate form, l)ut u\ that 

 case we should not expect that Gmelin would cite the page of the completed vol- 

 ume, instead of the page of the separate issue. Possibly some part of Y?';,. 

 may have appeared earlier than the date of tlie completed vohnne. Ant. ( olhn 

 discusses the question in the Zool. Anzeii^er for January, lcS99, pp. 4, 5, and comes 

 to the conclusion that at least a portion of Gmelin's part ^'I ai)peared between 

 August 21, 1790, and Mav 11, 1791, probably in one of the early months ol 1/91. 

 I have for some time followed Garus and Englemann and Bolton in using the date 

 1792 for this volume of Gmehn, instead of 1790 as used by Sherborn in the Index 

 Aninialiiim (p. 221), .«ince the latter does not give detailed data in his prehniinary 

 bibliograpliv ; but after GolHn's discussion, called to my attention by Dr Stiles 

 recently, it "seems reasonable to compromise on 1791 as the most probable date. 



^» Biill. Mas. Hist. Xal. Paris, X. p. 3.-)S, 1904. 




36S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEilY OF [Aug., 



group commonly called Cerithium in nomenclature was Mart^Ti. who 

 named it Clava. ha\ing two species in his first publication, of which 

 the first was a '• Vertagus" and the second a Pyrazus. 



The next author was Bruguiere. who habilitated Cerithium Adanson, 

 without mentioning a t^-pe and with limits, as ]M. Cossmann expresses 

 it. which" ne repond a rien de bien precis." Lamarck's first effort to 

 select a type fell on a species of Pseudovertagus. 



In this" he was followed by Link (1807^. Montfort (ISIO) and Cuvier 

 (1817). Lamarck's second effort reverted to the antique t}'pe repre- 

 sented by C nodulosum. 



In this he was followed by Schumacher (1817). who included the 

 aliico group under Cerithium (Lam.) proper, and separated the Clava 

 group with phcate axis under the untenable name of Vertagus. Most 

 modern authors have, in a general way, followed Schmnacher. 



Bruguiere, Lamarck and Deshayes were famihar with Martj-n's 

 work, referred to it with high praise, and cited his names in s}Tiom-my; 

 the loose practice of changing specific names to suit the fancy of the 

 author, without reference to prioritj", being still in vogue. 



M. Cossmann's criticisms have been made ^"ith such an air of con- 

 fidence and so much particularity of detaU, that the incautious reader 

 might well suppose they were founded upon an accurate determination 

 of the facts. Yet in the present case it has been shown that of three 

 dates essential to a right decision, those of Mart\Ti. Bruguiere and 

 Gmelin, as printed by ^I. Cossmann,-" each and ever}* one is ^sTong. 

 Only because they are incorrect is he able to arrive at a decision differ- 

 ent from mine, first published in 1892-^ and elaborated by PUsbry in 

 1901.- Since an analysis of my previous paper on Mart\-n appeared 

 in M. Cossmann's Revue de Paleozoologie. shortly after its pubhcation, 

 it seems difficult to account for the presence of the false date 1789 for 

 Martyn's first volume in the last number of the Essais. and one would 

 expect, after Sherbom and Woodward's elucidation of the dates of 

 the several parts,-^ that a French author of M. Cossmann's standing 

 would have informed himself of the dates of pubhcation of the Ency- 

 dopedie Methodique when they bore directly upon the subject he was 

 discussing. 



Whatever %iew may be taken of Mart^Ti's work, nothing can prevent 



^* T ertagus and Pseudovertagus beins: at that time not differentiated. 

 -"Essais de PaUoconch. Comp., \T:irpp. 65. 84. 1907. 

 " Trans. Wagner Inst.. III. part II. p. 290, 1892. 

 ^Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. for 1901. p. 392. 

 ** Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1S93, pp. •582-.58-i. 




1907.] NATITtAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



the recognition of Lamarck's type of 1799 as the type of the genus 

 Ccriihium, provided one accepts the international code of rules govern- 

 ing zoological nomenclature.-* The rejection of Clara Martyn would 

 not alter this fact. But, in any case, this system of nomenclature of 

 the Cerithiidoe, laboriously built up by M. Cossmann on an insufficient 

 knowledge of the nomenclatorial histor%^ of the family, must submit 

 to profound modifications before it can be approved by those who 

 accept the international rules. 



-* Regies iniemationales de la nomenclature Zoologique adoptees par les Congres 

 Internationales de zoologie. Paris, Rudeval, 1905, 8°, p. 57. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



ORTHOPTEEA OF THE FAMILIES TETTIGONID.E AND GRYLLID.E FROM 

 SAPUCAY, PARAGUAY. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



This paper completes the study of the Sapvicay collection of 

 Orthoptera made by William T. Foster and now the property of 

 Mr. Morgan Hebard . Five of the families of the order were treated in 

 a recent paper in these Proceedings,^ to which the reader is referred 

 for the titles of previous papers on Sapucay Orthoptera. The asterisk 

 is used here, as in the previous paper, to designate species not pre- 

 viously recorded from Sapucay. 



In previous papers forty-one species of the two families here treated 

 were recorded from Sapucay; thirty-six are here recorded, but of this 

 number six are new species and twelve previously known species are 

 recorded from the locality for the first time. 



The author wishes to thank Mr. Hebard for the privilege of studying 

 this valuable collection. 



TETTIG-ONID^. 

 PHANEROPTERIN.E. 



ISOPHYA Brunner. 



1878. Isophya Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., pp. 13, 59. 



Type. — 7. hrasiliensis Brunner. 



Isophya borellii GigUo-Tos. 



1894. I[sophya] Borellii Giglio-Tos, BoUett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, 

 IX, No. 184, p. 37. [Province of San Pedro and Asuncion, Paraguay; 

 Santa Rosa, Salta, Argentina.] 



March, 1905; two males, ten females. 



These individuals are clearly referable to borellii, the males having 

 the cereal tooth distinctly before the apex, the females having but the 

 apical third of the dorsal margin of the ovipositor crenulate. 



Isopliya hamata Giglio-Tos. 



1894. Ilsophya] hamata Giglio-Tos, Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 37. [Province of San Pedro, Asuncion and Colonia 

 Risso on the Rio Apa, Paraguay.] 



August, 1901 ; one male. 



' Prec. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, pp. 151-192. 




100/ 



NATURAL SriFACK* OF PHII.ADKLrHI A. 



371 



The apical cereal tooth and the more transverse plicate vein readily 

 xlistinguish the males of this species from those of horellii. The range 

 of this species is from Conimba, Matto Grosso, Brazil, south to Sapiicay. 



HYPEROPHORA IJiunncr. 

 1S7S. Iliipcrophora Brunnor, Monogr. der Phancropt., pp. 10, 125. 

 Type. — //. hrasilicnsis Brunner. 

 Hyperophora brasiliensis Brunner. 



1S7S. II[i/peropliora] Brasilicm^is Brunner, Monogr. dor Pliancropt., p. 126. 

 [Brazil.] 



December, 1904, :March, 1905; three males, two females. 



There is considerable variation in these individuals in the depth of 

 the coloration of the tegmina; in several specimens the green being 

 very much richer and deeper than in the others. The male eercus of 

 this species is represented by fig. 1. 



This species ranges from Brazil to Buenos Ayres, Argentina. 

 ♦Hyperophora cerviformis n. sp. 



Type: o^ ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 27, 1905. (William 

 Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Figs. 1-5. — Male eercus of species of Hyperophora (viewed from the dorsum). 

 1. //. fercsiV/ensis Brunner. 2. H . cerviformis n. sp. 3. //. wo/or lirunner. 

 4. //. gracilis n. sp. 5. H. minor Brunner. (X 8.) 



Allied to //. brasiliensis, but differing in the slenderer form, the more 

 elongate teginina and the shorter cerci, which are moderately recurved 

 distad, and with the proximal portion of the median process elongate 

 andspined. 



Size medium; form distinctly elongate, slender, compressed. Head 

 short and deep, ver}' considerably broader than the pronotum; occiput 

 rounded; vertex moderately declivent, fastigium narrow, compressed, 

 low, margins elevated, depressed mesad, at the extreme apex not 

 touching the frontal fastigium which is trigonal ; eyes ovate^ prominent; 

 antennai rather thick, fragile, not perfect in the type, proximal joint 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



about as broad as the eye. Pronotum with the disk subdeplanate, 

 slightly sellate; lateral margins siibparallel, acute, the width of the 

 disk contained about once and a half in the length, cephalic margin 

 moderately concave, caudal margin moderately arcuate, a distinct 

 rectangulate impressed line mesad ; lateral lobes distinctly longitudinal, 

 the greatest depth, wdiich is caudad, contained once and a half in the 

 length, cephalic margin slightly sinuate oblique, ventral margin 

 slightly emarginate over the coxse and very slightly angulate caudad 

 of this, caudal margin with a distinct rectangulate humeral sinus, 

 otherwise rounded. Tegmina reaching about to the tips of the caudal 

 femora, narrow, lanceolate, the greatest width contained about six 

 and a half times in the length, costal field well rounded proximad, 

 otherwise the margins taper almost imperceptibly to the rounded apex ; 

 discoidal vein with three rami which are connected by diagonal supple- 



Fig. 0. — Hyperopnora cerriforinis n. sp. Lateral view ol' male type. (X 22-) 



mentary veins; anterior ulnar vein fusing slightly distad of the apical 

 third and with two principal rami ; tympanum distinctly longer than 

 broad. Wings with apex acute, exceeding the tegmina by a length 

 equal to that of the head and pronotum together. Terminal dorsal 

 abdominal segment produced mesad into a subtrigonal process which 

 is somewhat bullate; cerci, produced moderately tapering, apex blunt, 

 somewhat depressed, narrowly recurved dorso-mesad, median process 

 strongly produced in a proximal direction parallel with the shaft, 

 acute, no development distad; subgenital plate with a rotundato- 

 angulate emargination, lateral apical angles rather blunt, ventral 

 surface with three subparallel carin£e. Cephalic femora but slightly 

 shorter than the head and pronotum together; median femora twice 

 as long as the pronotum. Caudal femora once and one-third the 




1!)()7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIlLADELPHIA. 373 



length ot" iliL' l)()(ly, sliMider; fau<lal til)'up sliglitly longer than the 

 femora. 



General color apple green turning to olive-yellow and naples 

 yellow on the head, pronotiun and limbs. Eyes i)rovits' brown, a 

 weak narrow postocular line and the more distinct continuation of the 

 same on the angle of the pronotum liver brown, the tympanum very 

 broadly margined lateratl with the same; tibiie oil green, the caudal 

 becoming olive-green dis+ad. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 17 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4 " 



Length of tegmcn 27.5 



Length of caudal femur, 22.7 " 



The type is the onh' specimen seen by the author. 



Hyperophora major Brunner. 



ls7s. [[[i/j)crnj)/i()ra] major Bninner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 126, 

 tnl>. II, fig. 24. [Buenos Ayres, Argentina.] 



March and .May, 1902; two males, two females. 



These specimens are slightly smaller than the measurements given 

 for this form by Brunner, but as far as can be determined from his 

 brief description they represent this species. The measurements of a 

 Sapucay male and female are as follows : 



c^ 9 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), . . 20 mm. 22.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.6 " 4.6 



Length of tegmen, 29.5 "^ 30.5 '| 



Length of wing beyond tegmen, 6.5 " 6.1 



Length of caudal femiu" 24 " 24.5 



Length of ovipositor (apex to ventral base), . 5.5 " 



The male cercus of this species is represented in fig. 3. This species 

 has been recorded from Buenos Ayres and Santa Rosa, Salta, Argentina, 

 and L'rucum, ^latto Grosso, Brazil. 

 ♦Hyperophora gracilis n. sp. 



Types : 6^ and ? ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 27 ( 9 ) and 

 March 7 {&), 1905. (William Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



In a way this species connects certain previously known species of 

 the genus, but in the form of the ovipositor it appears to be close to 

 H. angustipennis Brunner. while the strongly lamcUato-carinate ninth 

 dorsal abdominal segment of the male is apparently peculiar to the new 

 species. In possessing lateral lobes of the pronotum of equal depth 

 25 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



and in having the mediastine vein by no means as well marked as in 

 the major-peruviana group it occupies a rather intermediate position. 



Size medium; form elongate, slender, somewhat compressed. Head 

 distinctly broader than the pronotum, the occiput rounded, vertex 

 declivent, fastigium narrow, longitudinally sulcate, apex l^lunt and in 

 contact with the blunt apex of the facial fastigium; eyes subovate, 

 strongly exserted; antenna? elongate, proximal joint as broad as the 

 eye. Pronotum with the dorsum deplanate, slightly sellate; lateral 



Hypcrophora gracilis n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 2J.) 



margins subparallel, angulate, subcarinate, the breadth of the disk 

 contained about once and a half in the length, cephalic margin very 

 slightly emarginate, caudal margin arcuate, a distinct but low median 

 carina present on the extreme caudal section of the disk, cephalad of 

 this there is an indication of the same but no carina, rectangulate 

 impressed pattern slightly caudad of the middle; lateral lobes with 

 the greatest depth contained nearly twice in the length, caudal margin 

 subsinuate with a faint trace of a supra-coxal emargination, humeral 

 sinus distinct, rectangulate, the remainder of the caudal margin 

 slightly arcuate and the ventro-caudal angle rather narrowly rounded. 

 Tegmina exceeding the length of the body l^y al^out that of the pro- 

 notum, the greatest width contained about seven times in the length, 

 margins approximating little, except in the apical fifth where the costal 

 margin arches distinctly to the narrowly rounded apex; discoidal vein 

 with four rami, all of which are distinctly sublongitudinal in their 

 middle course, diagonal in the remainder; anterior ulnar vein with no 

 distinct rami in the male, one to two in the female, the vein itself being 

 connected by a short vein with the proximal rami of the discoidal vein. 

 Wings exceeding the tegmina by nearly twice the length of the pronotum, 

 the apex tapering and acute. Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of 

 the male with a short acute process over the base of each cercus and a 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



larger median trigonal process bearing a hit^h rounded lamellate ridge; 

 cerci elongate (see fig. 4), moderately robust in the proximal section, 

 slender in the distal section which is strongly curved mesad with the 

 apex blunt and somewhat recurved, median process on the distal 

 side of its internal face with only a minute spine, the proximal side 

 with a slender recurved appendage with a slightly expanded emarginato- 

 truncate apex; subgenital plate moder- 

 ately produced, apex rectangulate emar- 

 ginate. Ovipositor of the female about 

 half the length of the tegmina, slightly 

 but regularly curved, rather broad, taper- „. sp. Lateral view of ovi- 

 ing very slightly except toward the im- positor. (x 3.) 

 mediate apex, dorsal margin slightly and 



ventral margin distinctly crenulate in the distal third; subgenital 

 plate of the femora very slightly produced with a narrow median 

 emargination. Cephalic femora as long as the pronotum and half of 

 the head ; median femora about a third the length of the tegmina. 

 Caudal femora very slender, reaching to the apex of the tegmina. 



General color apple green becoming greenish yellow on the proximal 

 portion of the tegmina, pronotum and head ; postocular line and angles 

 of the pronotum brick red, the male tympanum marked laterad not 

 very strongly with the same color; eyes chestnut; caudal tibiae becoming 

 purplish brown distad. 



Measurements. 



6" 9 



Length of body, 21 mm. — - mm. 



Length of pronotum, 3.7 " — ^ " 



Length of tegmen, 23.8 " 25.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 21 " 22 " 



Length of ovipositor, 11.5 " 



Three paratypic males, taken in February and March, 1905, have 

 also been examined. These specimens fully agree with the type in 

 all essential characters. From these specimens it is seen that the 

 male in some cases possesses at least a single ramus to the anterior 

 ulnar vein of the tegmen. v..., , 



Hyperophora minor Brunner. 



isdl. Uijprrophora minor Brunner, Verli:uull. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 ,. Wien, XLI, p. 59. [Paraguay; Cordoba, Argentina.] 



February and March, 1905 ; fourteen males, thirteen females. 



^ Tlie head and cephalic jKjrtion of the pronotum is mi.ssing in the femaletype. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMi OF [Aug., 



The cercus of the male of this species is represented by fig. 5. 

 There is an appreciable amount of variation in size in this species, the 

 extremes of the present series measuring as follows : 



Length of tegmen, . . 24 mm. 25.5 mm. 23.8 mm. 27 mm. 

 Length of caudal femur, 2L2 " 23 '' 22 " 23.6 || 

 Length of ovipositor, 7.2 " 7.8 



LIGOCATINUS Rehn. 



187S. Amaura Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., pp. 25, 247. (Not of 



MoUer, 1842.) 

 1901. Ligocatinus Rehn, Canad. Entom., XXXIII, p. 272. 



Type. — Amaura spinata Brunner. 



Ligocatinus olivaceus (Brunner). 



1891. Amaura olivacea Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien 

 XLI, p. 123. [Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.] 



February, 1903 and 1905; three females. 



Terminal spines are present on the external dorsal margin of the 

 cephalic tibise in all tlu'ee specimens.^ 



HOMOTOICHA Brunner. 



1891. Homotoicha Brunner, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, XLI, 

 pp. 17, 124. 



Type. — H. minor (Brunner). 



Homotoicha fuscopunctata Caadel!. 



1906. Homotoicha fuscopunctata Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., XXX, p. 

 236. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



March, 1905; one male. 



This specimen has been examined by Caudell, who states there is no 

 doubt in his mind but that it represents the male of 

 his species. As the appendages are undescribed a few 

 notes ma}^ be of interest. 



Terminal dorsal abdominal segment with the apical 

 Fig. 9. — H o?no- margin broadly subtruncate. Cerci with the proximal 

 mmctcUa Cau- third very stout, scabrous and bearing ' on the inter- 

 dell. Lateral nal margin a lamellate ridge developed into a falciform 

 of ^ male abdo^ process. Curving dorsad, the base broad, apex acute 

 men. ( X 5.) and normally touching the base of the opposite cercus ; 

 median third of the cercus compressed ; apex thickened,, 

 obliquely truncate and with a small spine placed in the middle of the 

 truncation, beyond the proximal third the cerci are curved inward. 



3 Vide Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 236. 




1907.] NATI-RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Subgenital plate produced, tapering, bent considerably dorsad^near 

 the base, deeply antl narrowly divided, short style.s present. 



CERAIA Brunncr. 



1891. Ceraia Brunncr, Verliandl. K.-K. Zool.-hot. Gesell. Wicn, XLI. pp. 

 18, 127. 



Type. — C. tibialis Brunncr. 



Ceraia cornutoides Caudell. 



l*t()(i. Ceraia cornuloidcs Caudfll, I'roc. U. .S. Nat Mu.s., XXX, p. 237. 

 [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



January, 1903, :\rarch, 1905; two females. 



SCAPHURA Kirby. 

 1825. ScapJtura Kirby, Zool. Journ., I, p. i'V2. 

 Type. — S. vigorsii Kirby. 

 Scaphura nigra (Thunberg). 



1824. Tr ?•[)///!/ .•^] niger Thunberg, ]\I('-ni. I'Acail. Imp. de.s Sciences, St. 

 Petersb.; IX, p. 41.5. [Brazil.] 



January and March, 1903 and 1905; one male, three females. 



These specimens do not fully agree with any of the numerous color 

 forms of this species, being closer to vigorsii Kirby and chalyhea 

 Marschall than to the others. From the former they differ in the 

 absence of pale markings on the median femora and in the more 

 brownish wings, these latter being distinctly red-brown with a pre- 

 apical portion infuscate. From chalyhea they differ in the chalj^beous 

 proximal portion of the antennae comprising eight to thirteen joints, 

 instead of only reaching the third. However they are closer to 

 chalyhea than to the type called vigorsii by Kirby. 



I have provisionally considered all the nominal species as forms of 

 nigra, which is the oldest name, the probability being that the various 

 forms are geographic and restricted to definite areas. The variation 

 noted in the four specimens in hand is slight, and from this one may 

 infer that variation in one locality is generally no greater. 



The resemblance of this species to a Sphegid wasp is very striking, as 

 has already been noticed by Westwood, the similarity to species of the 

 genus Pepsis being particularly true of the specimens examined. 



GRAMMADERA Brunner. 

 1878. Grammadera Brunner, .M(Mi()gr. der Plianeropt., pp. 27, 297. 

 Type. — G. clara Brunner. 



♦Grammadera albida Brunner. 



1S78. G[rammadera] albida Brunner, Monogr. der Plianeropt., p. 298. 

 [Brazil.] 



November and December, 1904; two males, one female. 




378 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



As the ovipositor was mutilated in the female type, I have described 

 the appendages of the available female. 



Ventral length of the ovipositor two and one-half times that of the 

 disk of the pronotum, slightly falcate, greatest width immediately 

 distad of the middle and contained about four times in the length, 

 apex acute, both margins crenulate for about a third their length. 

 Subgenital plate small, apex broadly emarginate. 

 *Graininadera rostrata n. sp. 



Type: 9 ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 10, 1905. (WilUam 

 Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to G. clara and alhida, differing from the former in the more 

 arcuate ovipositor, the less quadrate lateral lobes of the pronotum 



Fig. 10. — Grammadera rostrata n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 2J.) 



and the slenderer limbs. From G. alhida it differs in the smaller eyes, 

 the more produced and subecjual fastigium, the more distinctly disto- 

 median insertion of the median vein and the less c|uadrate lateral lobes 

 of the pronotum. From G. hastata Brunner and pcllucida and rosea 

 Giglio-Tos it is separated by a number of characters, the chief of which 

 is the sulcate fastigium (not sulcate in hastata) and the emarginate 

 subgenital plate (entire or rotundate in pellucida and rosea). 



Size medium; form moderately elongate, distinctly compressed. 

 Head with the occiput, vertex and fastigium on much the same plane, 

 fastigium considerably produced, the margins slightly converging, the 

 apex blunt and extending distinctly beyond the facial fastigium, 

 reaching to the margin of the proximal antennal joint when that por- 




I'JUT.j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



tion is in a vertical position, dorsum of the fastigiuni broadly but not 

 very deeply sulcate; facial fastigium acute, distinctly separated from 

 the fastigium of the vertex; eyes subglobose, prominent; antennae 

 about three times the length of the body (exclusive of the ovipositor), 

 filiform, proximal joint rather large. Pronotum with the disk flattened 

 only in the caudal section, the cephalic and median sections being 

 rounded into the lateral lobes with a scarcely perceptible median angle, 

 the greatest caudal width being continued about once and a half in the 

 length, cephalic margin of the disk and lateral lobes truncate, caudal 

 margin of the disk arcuate; lateral lobes about as long as deep, humeral 

 sinus broad, shallow, the remainder of the caudal margin gently arcuate, 

 cephalic section of the ventral margin sinuate with the ventro- 

 cephalic angle obtuse. Tegmina about once and a half the length of the 

 body (exclusive of the ovipositor), extending beyond the caudal 

 femora by about the length of the pronotum, lanceolate, the greatest 

 width contained nearly four and a half times in the length, costal 

 margin very slightly arcuate, sutural margin straight 

 in the distal three-fourths, apex rounded; median 

 vein diverging two-fifths the length from the base 

 and furcate with the rami reaching the sutural margin. 

 Wings extending beyond the tegmina a distance 

 nearly equal to the length of the pronotum. Supra- 

 anal plate trigonal, acute; ovipositor about two-fifths 

 the length of the tegmina and slightly more than half 

 that of the caudal femora, moderately arcuate in the 



distal two-thirds, straight in the proximal third, the ,.. ,, 



' f^ f . ' t]g. 11. — Gram- 



greatest width at about the distal third, dorsal madera rostrata 



margin not sinuate, ventral margin slightly sinuate ": ^P" ^ ?''^^j 

 fe J & & J ^ view of head 



in the proximal half, apex acute, distal half with the and pronotum. 

 dorsal margin very slightly crenulate, ventral margin (X 4.) 

 distinctly crenulate; subgenital plate short, slightly 

 inflated, tlie margin with a broad shallow triangular'emargination. 

 Cephalic femora about equal to the pronotum in length, armed on the 

 distal section of the ventro-cephalic margin with three spines; median 

 femora slightly longer than the head and pronotum together, armed 

 on the ventro-cephalic margin wdth three spines. Caudal femora equal 

 to the body in length, considerably inflated distad, ventral margins 

 armed with one or two spines near the apex; tibiae exceeding the 

 femora by near the length of the pronotum. 



General color maize yellow washed with greenish on the head, pro- 

 notum, pleura and limbs ; a distinct gamboge yellow line extends from 




3S0 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



the apex of the fastigium to the caudal margin of the pronotuni and is 

 also indicated on the distal portion of the sutural margin of the tegmina ; 

 pronotum regularly sprinkled with red-brown dots; eyes vandyke 

 brown; antennae greenish proximad, yellowish, greenish and l)lackish 

 distad. Tegmina and wings pale chromiiun green. Ovipositor with 

 the distal two-fifths paris green, the apex and margins narrowly red- 

 brown. Caudal femora ochraceous on the inflated portion, lined dorsad 

 on the same and with distal section buffy, the whole speckled with red- 

 brown as on the pronotum; caudal tibiae greenish, much stronger 

 distad. 



Measurements. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 19 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 



Length of tegmen, 29.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 18.3 " 



Length of ovipositor, 11.5 " 



The type is unique. 



*Grammadera forcipata n. sp. 



Type: c? ; Sapucay, Paraguay. February 27, 1905. (William 

 Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Fig. 12. — Grammadera forcipata n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 3.) 



AlHed to G. pellucida Giglio-Tos, agreeing in the sulcate pronotum 

 and the long slender incurved cerci, but differing in the aljsence of 

 mucronations on the apex of the cerci, in the longer, strongly divided 

 subgenital plate and the subequally broad as high lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum. There is hardly any possibility of this species being the 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



male of G. rostratd as the venation is much more irregular, the fastigium 

 is longer and the limbs shorter and weaker. 



Size medium: form considerably compressed. Head with the fasti- 

 fiium much narrower than the proximal joint of the anteniuc. subecjual. 

 apex blunt, mcxlerately sulcate dorsad, the apex when viewed laterad 

 distinctly exceeding the margin of the proximal antennal joint when 

 the latter is in a vertical position; facial fastigium produced into a 

 slender projecting process directed dorso-cephalad and touching the 

 ventral surface of the apex of the fastigium of the vertex; eyes sub- 

 globose, moderately prominent; antennae slender, broken in the type. 

 Pronotum with the disk as in G. roslrata except that the median section 

 bears a distinct longitudinal sulcus more apparent caudacl than 

 cephalad, while a rectangulate imi)ressed pattern is placed slightly 

 caudad of the middle ; lateral lobes as in rostrata. Tegmina about three 

 and a half times as long as the combined length of the head and pro- 

 notum, moderately lanceolate, the greatest width 

 contained nearly four times in the length; costal 

 margin regularly but slightly arcuate, sutural mar- 

 gin straight except where it curves to the narrowly 

 rounded apex; median vein diverging very slightly 

 clistad of the middle and reaching the sutural 

 margin well before the apex, discoidal vein bearing 

 three rami in the distal section ; the whole venation 

 is peculiar in character, the principal veins irregular ^.. ^^ ^Zmmma- 

 and connected by numerous adventitious veins. dcra forcipaia n 

 Wings extending beyond the tegmina a distance ^Jl' ^ ^^^'^^^ ^^]^ 

 about equal to the length of the cephalic femora, aljdomen. (x 7.) 

 apex moderately acute. Terminal abdominal 

 segment truncate; supra-anal plate hastate, slightlj* constricted 

 mesad; cerci simple, tapering, apex acute, the distal section mod- 

 erately incurved and also with a distinct dorsal curve; subgenital 

 plate strongly produced, reaching about to the end of the cerci, hoar- 

 ing three converging ventral carinte, narrowly incised distad with 

 the lateral portions of the apex of the plate moderately long, 

 sharp and tapering. Cephalic femora slightly shorter than the 

 pronotum, unarmed ventrad; median femora slightly less than half 

 the length of the caudal femora, unarmed ventrad. Caudal femora 

 very slightly shorter than the body, not strongly inflated proximad, 

 armed with several small spines on the ventro-lateral margin; caudal 

 tibiae exceeding the femora by nearly the length of the head. 



General color pale chromium green touched with yellowish on the 




382 PROCEEDINGS Of THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



abdomen and proximal portion of the tegmina and somewhat hoary 

 on the pleura, coxae and lateral lobes of the pronotum. Eyes hazel; 

 tympanum of the tegmina with the principal veins strongly marked 

 with bistre. 



^ Measuretnents. 



Length of body, 17 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 4.9 " 



Length of tegmen, 27 " 



Length of caudal femur, 14.5 " 



The type is the only specimen of this species seen by the author. 



PHYLLOPTERA Serville. 

 1831. PhyUoptera Ser\ille, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 142. 

 Type. — As designated by Kirby, P. cassinoefolia. 



PhyUoptera alliedea Caudell. 



1906. PhyUoptera alliedea Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat.^Mus., XXX, p. 238. 

 [Sapucay. Paraguay.] 



February, 1902 and 1905, May, 1902; two males, one female. 



PhyUoptera spinulosa Brunner. 



j-,'. J 1878. Ph[yUoptcra] spinulosa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 314. 

 [Ypamena, Sao Paulo, Brazil.] 



February, 1905; one male, one female. 



The female individual has the tegmina with an ocellus as mentioned 

 by Caudell. In neither specimen are the cephalic tibiae sulcate dorsad. 



The ovipositor of this species is very short and robust, the apex 

 rectangulate, the distal half of the margins crenulate and the faces of 

 the same portion tessellato-granulate. The ventral length of the 

 ovipositor is six millimeters. Subgenital plate small, very strongly 

 produced, divided to the base. 



HYPERPHRONA Brunner. 

 1878. Hyperphrona Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., pp. 28, 315. 



Type. — H. angusta Brunner. 

 *Hyperphrona signata n. sp. 



Types: (j and ? ; Sapucay, Paraguay. December 19, 1904 (d^); 

 February 24, 1905 ( 9 ). (WiUiam Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to H. binotata Brunner from the upper Amazon, agreeing 

 with it in the coloration of the proximal joints of the antennae, the pro- 

 portions of the tegmina and the point of contact of the median vein, but 

 differing in the absence of black from the remainder of the antennae, the 

 spiniform apex of the male cerci, the shorter ovipositor and the peculiar 




190/ 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



383 



occUifonn inarkiiig ut" the margin of the tympanal field of the male 

 tegmina. .< 



Size rather small; form somewhat compressed. Head with the occi- 

 put very slightly rounded, vertex slightly declivent; fastigium trigonal, 

 the margins slightly concave and the apex roundly tuberculate, the 

 proximal portion having the margins roundly elevated and the middle 

 sulcate, when viewed laterad the fastigium is seen to be strongly 

 depressed mesad, with the apex somewhat elevated and not extending 



Hyper phrona siijnuta n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 3.) 



cephalad of the proximal joint of the antenna; facial fastigium acute; 

 eyes subglobose; antennae half again as long as the greatest length, 

 slender. Pro.notum with the disk subdeplanate, laterad with the angles 

 rounded and the greatest caudal width contained once and a half in the 

 length, cephalic margin slightly cmarginate, caudal margin strongly 

 arcuate; lateral lobes slightly longer than deep, cephalic margin slightly 

 sinuate, ventral margin rounded obtuse-angulate, caudal margin mod- 

 erately arcuate with the humeral sinus moderately deep and broad. 

 Tegmina slightly more than three times as long as the head and prono- 

 tum together, ovate-lanceolate, the greatest width contained about three 

 and a third times in the length; costal and sutural margins regularly 

 but not strongly arcuate, apex rounded ; median vein diverging slightly 

 proximad of the middle, simple or furcate,^ reaching the sutural margin 

 shortly proximad of the apex; anterior ulnar vein almost straight; 

 tympanum of the male with the stridulating vein very stout. Wings 

 extending beyond the tegmina a very short distance, narrowly rounded 



* In the types furcate only on the left teginen of the female. ^' . _ 




3S4 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



at the apex. Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the male with a 

 very slight and broad median emargination ; supra-anal plate reflexed, 

 roughly semicircular; cerci stout at the base, short, tapering, the tips 

 moderately hooked, acute; subgenital plate moder- 

 ately produced, the apical portion much narrower 

 than the base, apical margin truncate, false styles 

 short and dentiform. Ovipositor about as long 

 as the pronotum and half of the head, bent arcuate, 

 broad, apex moderately acute, distal half of the 

 dorsal margin distinctly crenulate, of the ventral 

 margin obsoletely crenulate; subgenital plate small, 

 rectangulate with the apex minutely rectangulate 

 emarginate. Cephalic femora but little shorter 

 than the head and pronotum together, unarmed; 

 dorso-caudal margin of the tibiae with four to five 

 spines, one of which is placed at the distal ex- 

 tremity of the proximal inflation. Median femora 

 equal to about half the length of the caudal femora, 

 armed on the ventro-cephalic margin with two to 

 three small, recumbent spines. Caudal femora 

 slightly shorter than the length of the body, moder- 

 ately inflated distad and with spines none or one 

 on the ventro-cephalic margin; caudal tibiae dis- 

 tinctly exceeding the femora. 

 General color buff-yellow becoming apple green on the tegmina, 

 exposed portion of the wings and limbs. Eyes chestnut ; antennae 

 very broadly and irregularly annulate with dragon's blood red. Pro- 

 notum with the disk regularly and the lateral lobes sparingly dotted 



Fig. 15. — Hyper- 



, phrona signata n. 



sp. Dorsal view 



of head , pronotum 



and tympanum of 



.~ male type. (X 5.) 



Fig. 16. — Hyperphrona signata n. sp. 



Dorsal \iew of apex of male abdo- Fig. 17. — Hyperphrona signata n. sp. 

 : men. (x 6.) Lateral view of o^^positor. (X 5.) 



with dragon's blood red, the margins being rather regularly checked 

 with the same. 



Tegmina sometimes^ with an ochraceous premedian desiccated spot, 



On the left tegmen of the female type. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



maruined on all but the caudal face with brown; tympanum of the 

 male with an irregular median blotch of very pale greenish surrounded 

 by a vvvy irregular ring of liver brown ; sutural margin narrowed touched 

 mesad with liver Ijrown. 



Measurements. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), . . 17.3 mm. 18.3 mm. 



Length of proiiotum, 4.3 " 4.3 " 



Length of tegnien, 23.2 " 21 " 



Length of caudal femur, 17 " 16 " 



Length of ovipositor, 5.5 " 



A series of four male and six female paratypic individuals have also 

 been examined. The months represented in the series are December, 

 1904. and January, February and IMarch, 1905. 



In size there is an appreciable amount of variation, in addition to 

 which there also appears to be two forms irrespective of sex, one wdth 

 the tegmina short as in the female type, the other with the tegmina 

 longer and correspondingly slenderer as in the male type. The series 

 also shows that the forking of the median vein is piu-ely a variation 

 not even individual, one tegmen in a number of specimeiLS having the 

 unbranched type, the other the reverse. The female type is the only 

 specimen with the premedian tegminal spot, while the tympanal spot of 

 the male with its surrounding ring is also seen to vary greatly in depth, 

 though always present in that sex. In a number of specimens the 

 tegmina are distinctly yellow proximad, and in one male the w^hole 

 tegmina are of that color. 



TURPILIA stai. 

 *Turpilia paraguayensis n. sp. 



Types: d" and ? ; March 12 ( 9 ) and 21 (cJ), 1905. (William 

 Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Closely allied to T. mexicana Brunner from Oaxaca and T. linearis 

 Rehn from Costa Rica. From mexicana it differs in the general smaller 

 size, the spined dorsal margin of the median femora and the acute 

 subgenital plate of the femora. From linearis it differs in the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum being as long as deep, the tegmina slightly shorter 

 and the cerci with a distinct apical spine. 



Size moderately large; form elongate. Head with the occiput 

 slightly rounded; fastigium strongly compressed, narrowly sulcate, 

 apex blunt, separated from the blunt apex of the acute angulate facial 

 fastigium by a very shght space; eyes large, subglobose, moderately 




38^1 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



prominent ; antennae probably exceeding the tips of the mngs (shghtly 

 defective in the types), fiUform. Pronotum with the disk strongly 

 deplanate, slightly expanding in width caudad, the greatest caudal 

 width contained slightly less than once and a half in the length ; cephalic 

 margin truncate, caudal margin arcuate, lateral angles distinct but 

 narrowly rounded, a fine impressed longitudinal median line present 

 on the disk; lateral lobes about as long as deep, ventro-cephalic angle 

 very broadly rounded, humeral sulcus marked but shallowly, the 

 caudal margin ventrad of this with a rounded obtuse angle from which 

 the ventro-caudal margin is diagonally subtruncate. Tegmina 

 elongate lanceolate, about four times as long as the combined length of 

 the head and pronotum, the greatest width contained nearly five times 

 in the length ; costal and sutural margins slightly approximating, the 



Fig. 18. — Turpllia paraguayensis n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 2^.) 



apex rounded ; discoidal vein with two rami in the distal section, both 

 of which reach the apical margin ; median vein diverging two-fifths the 

 distance from the base, furcate. Wings extending beyond the tegmina 

 a distance very nearly equal to the length of the pronotum, immediate 

 apex rectangulate. Terminal dorsal abdominal segment of the 

 male broadly and shallowly emarginate mesad and also on the lateral 

 faces; cerci short, stout at the base, tapering, with the immediate apex 

 sharply narrowed, hooked and spiniform, internal margin slightly 

 before the middle provided with a thick, l^lunt, peg-like process: 

 subgenital plate of the male produced, narrowed with a median ventral 

 carina and lateral thickened rods which extend to the base of the 

 short, slender styles, narrow distad margin of the plate with a rounded 

 V-shaped emargination. Ovipasitor as long as the head and half of 




1907.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILAUELPHIA. 



387 



the pronotum, coiisidorably l)ont proxiinad, very sli«i:htly curved distad, 

 the greatest widtli iiiesad and contained two and one-half times in 

 the length, dorsal margin nearly straight and entirely crenulate, ven- 

 tral margin consideral)ly arcuate and crenulate in the distal fourth, 

 apex slightly narrowed, rounded; subgenital plate of the female 

 produced trigonal with slightly concave sides, apex narrowly truncate. 

 Cephalic femora about equal to the pronotum in length, unarmed 

 ventrad : the proximal inflation of the tibia^ supplied with a distal spine 

 on the caudal margin. Median femora as long as the head and pro- 

 notum together, unarmed ventrad. Caudal femora about equal to the 

 body in length, moderately inflated proximad, ventro-lateral margin 

 with three to five spines distad, internal margin with six to seven 

 spines; caudal tibiae slightly longer than the femora. 



Fig. 19. — TurpUin ixintgumjcnsis n. sp. 

 Dorsal view of upcx of male atirlo- 

 men. (X 6.) 



Fig. 20. — Turpilia paragnaijensis n. sp. 

 Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 5.) 



General color dull greenish-yellow, the tegmina and wings apple 

 green. Head with the eyes chestnut, antennae with all except the two 

 proximal joints vinaceous-cinnamon ; pronotum with the caudal section 

 of the disk apple green, the lateral angles sometimes marked with 

 vinaceous; tegmina with the anal vein and sutural margin more or less 

 distinctly marked with buff-pink; tibial foramina marked with dark 

 brown, distal extremities of the tibise and the tarsi ochraceous buff; 

 ovipositor orange-rufous. 



Measurements. 



Length of body, 20 mm. 22.7 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 5 " 5.5 " 



Length of tegmen 31 " 31.2 " 



Length of caudal femur, 20.8 " 21.8 " 



Length of ovipositor, 6.5 " 



A paratypic series of five males and five females, taken in .March, 

 1903, have also been examined and found to differ in no important 

 characters from the type. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



MICROCENTRUM Scudder. 

 ♦Microcentrum lanceolatum (Burmeister). 



1S3S. Ph[yIlopiera] lanceolata Burmeister, Handb. der Eiitom., II, Abth. 

 II, pt. I, p. 692. [Brazil.] 



March, 1905; one female. 



This individual is rather smaller than the Brazilian or Surinam 

 material measured by Brunner,*' but otherwise it is perfectly typical 

 of the species. 



Measurements. 



Length of pronotum, 6.5 mm. 



Length of tegmen, 42 " 



Greatest width of tegmen, 13.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, . 22.2 " 



Length of ovipositor, 6 " 



This species has been recorded from ^''illa Rica, Paraguay, and 

 Urucum, ^latto Grosso, Brazil, by Giglio-Tos. 



PSEUDOPHYLLIN.E. 



DASYSCELTIS Brunner. 

 1895. .Dasyscelus Brunner, Monogr. der P.seudopliyll., pp. 15, 118. 

 Type. — D. atrifrons Brunner. 



Dasyscelus normalis Brunner. 



1895. Dasyscelus 7iormaUs Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudopln'll., p. 119. 

 [Uruguay; Buenos Ayres.] 



November, December and January, 1903 and 1905, April, 1903; 

 six males, twelve females. 



This species appears to have as a synonym D. demigratus Brunner, 

 over which normalis has line priority. The differences cited are in the 

 color of the face and in the length of the tegmina and limbs. The 

 former of these characters is at once discredited by the fact that 

 two types, one with a black face and the other with a pale face, are 

 present in this series, the two extremes being connected by a number 

 of intermediates. The length of the limbs varies with the general 

 size and the present series shows more difference in size in the extremes 

 than the typical measmements of normalis and demigratus, although 

 the Sapucay individuals average larger than Brunner's material, 

 which came in part at least from Buenos Ayres. The original localities 

 given for demigratus are "Gabun, Buenos Ayres," but the former is 

 unquestionably erroneous. 



^Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 330. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



COXOCEPHAI.IX.i;. 

 LAMNICEPS Bolivar. 

 1903. LamnicepsBoMvar, Revista Chilena de Hist. Nat., \l\. mini. 3, p. 144 

 Ty]ie. — L. giglio-tosi Bolivar. 



*Lamnicep8 giglio-tosi Bolivar. 



1903. Lamniceps Giglio-Tosi Bolivar, Revista ("hilma do Hi.st. Xat., VII, 

 num. 3, p. 115. [Central Paraguay.] 



November and December, 1904, February, 1905; four females. 



These individuals are perfectly typical of Bolivar's genus and species, 

 which is clearly, as stated by him, intermediate in position between 

 Copiphora and Lirometopum. 



One specimen is slightly smaller than the others, but otherwise no 

 differences are noted. 



The description of Copiophora borellii Giglio-Tos^ appears to be that 

 of a form closely related to this species. 



CONOCEPHALOIDES Perkins." 

 1S99. Conocephnloides Perkins, Fauna Ilawaiiensis, Orth., p. 13. 

 Type. — C. hawaiiensis Perkins = Conocephalus remotus Walker. 



*Coiiooeplialoides ichneumoneus (Bolivar). 



1884. Conocephalus ichneumoneus liolivar, Art6pod. Viaje al Pacffico, 

 Neuropt. y Ort6pt., p. 90, Idin. 2, fig. 10. [Apiahy, Brazil.] 



December, 1904; two females. 



This specimen fully agrees with Bolivar's description, except that the 

 pronotum and tegmina are very slightly longer and the ovipositor 

 slightly shorter. 



The type locality in the State of Sao Paulo and this record constitute 

 the known localities for the species. 



♦Conocephaloides pioliinclise (Bolivar). 



1881. Conocephalus Pichinchce Bolivar. Anales Soc. Espan. Hist. Xat., X, 

 p. 498. [Pichinolia, Kcuador.] 



November, 1904 ; one male. 



This individual is referred here with considerable doubt, but it is 

 clearly related to this species and guttatus, with a number of which 



' Bollett. Mus. Zool. Anat. Camp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 40. [Luque, Para- 

 guay.] 



* The author is compelled with considerable reluctance to adopt this name, 

 based on an aberrant form of the genus, in preference to the familiar application 

 of Conocephalus Thunberg. After examining tlie literature involved it is evident, 

 as has been shown by Kirby (Synonym. Catal. Orlhopt., II, pp. 241, 274 and 279), 

 that Thunberg's hemipterus is identical with Gryllus conocephalus Linnaeus, which 

 by the rule of tautonomy is the type of Conocephalus Thunberg. The latter genus , 

 Jiowever, is not cancelled by the fact that it is based on a speeifie name, as Kirby 

 so treats it, but instead it replaces Anisoplera Latreille and Xiphidion Serville. 

 26 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug. 



latter species it has been compared. From the original description 

 of pichinchoE it differs in its apparently broader tegmina, its unarmed 

 cephalic femora and slightly longer caudal femora. The tibiae bear the 

 very apparent distal blackish-fuscous markings originally described. 



Conocephaloides pustulatus (Redtenbacher). 



1S91. Conocephalus pustulatus Redtenbacher Verliandl. K.-K. Zool.- 

 botaii; Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 395. [Theresopolis, Brazil.] 



November and December, 1904, January, 1905; seven males, five 

 females. 



This series shows a moderate amount of variation in size, chiefly in 

 the length of the tegmina. Both color phases are in the series at hand, 

 the green, however, predominating. 



Kir by has recently^ applied the name exaltatus Walker^" to this 

 species, but Walker's description does not agree in several details with 

 the material before us and Redtenbacher's diagnosis perfectly char- 

 acterizes the species. In consequence we prefer to use Redten- 

 bacher's name for the Paraguayan and south Brazilian form until its 

 relationship to Walker's species is more clearly understood. 



♦Conocephaloides maxillosus (Fabricius). 



1794. Locusta maxiUosa Fabricius, Entom. Syst., II, p. 37. [America.] 



March, 1905; one female. 



The range of this species to the south now appears to be limited by 

 southern Brazil (Rio Janeiro, Theresopolis), Paraguay and Bolivia. 



*Conocephaloides maculosus (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Conocephalus maculosus Redtenbacher, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot, 

 Gesell. AYien, XLI, p. 396. [Lages, Santa Catharina, Brazil.] 



December, 1904; one male. 



This individual differs somewhat in its measurements from the 

 original female type, but such differences may be sexual, and as far as 

 can otherwise be determined from the original description it represents 

 this species. The measurements may be of interest : 



Length of body, 27.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 8.1 " 



Length of tegmen, 37.5 " 



Length of caudal femur, 21.5 " 



♦Conocephaloides saturatus (Griffini). 



1891. Conocephalus infuscatus Redtenbacher (not of Scudder, 1875), 

 Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 398. [Medellin; 8t. 

 Vincent, Lesser Antilles; Cuba; Venezuela; Sunnam; Cayenne; Brazil; 

 Rio Grande and Theresopolis, Brazil; Peru.] 



1899. Conocephalus saturaius Griffini, Miscell. Entom., "\'II, p. 5. 



• Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 243. 

 '« Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mas., II, p. 31 1. [Venezuela.] 




1907.] NATURAL SClHNCKrS OF PHILADKLPIIIA. 391 



March. 100"); threo foniales. 



In these ."Specimens the length of the tegniina varies from S'S to 3S 

 millimeters, the caudal femora from 2-4 to 25.5 and the ovipositor 

 from 34 to 34.5. The ovipositor is appreciably longer than the measure- 

 ments given by Redtenbacher (20-28 mm.), but otherwise the s])eci- 

 mens are perfectly typical. 



♦Conocephaloides brachypterus (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Conoccphalus brachypterus Redtonbacher, Verliaiull. 1\.-K. Zoul.- 

 bot. Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 400. [Brazil.] 



February, 1903; one female. 



This individual has several spines on each of the cephalic and median 

 femora, but otherwise it fulh' agrees with the original description. 



*Conocephaloides rugosicoUis (Bolivar). 



ISSl. Conoccphalus rugosicoUis BoUvar, Auales Soc. Espafi. Hist. Nat., X, 

 p. 496. [Huasco, Chile] 



November and December, 1904, January, February and IMarch, 1905; 

 seven males, six females. 



As far as can be determined from the several published descriptions 

 of this species the Paraguayan series before us is referable to rugosi- 

 coUis. In the degree of contiguity of the vertex and frontal fastigium 

 there is, however, considerable variation, ranging from individuals 

 with the two distinctly touching to others in which they are slightly 

 but appreciably separated. In no other character, however, can the 

 material be separated, and the majority of the series is rather inter- 

 mediate between the two. 



The figiu'e of the tegmen given by Redtenbacher" is not exactly as 

 seen in the Paraguayan specimens, as the obliquely truncate apex of 

 the tegmen is not sinuate in the latter series. 



As the female of this species has never been described a few notes 

 may be of interest. 



Ovipositor less than half the length of the tegmina, slightly bent 

 proximad, straight otherwise, thick distad, the greatest width at about 

 a fourth the length from the apex, latter acute; subgenital plate with a 

 deep median sinuate \'-shaped emargination. 



Measurements. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 31 mm. 



Length of pronotum, 7.9 '' 



Length of tegmen, 41 " 



Length r>f caudal femur, 24.2 " 



Length of ovipositor, IS. 3 " 



" Verhundl. K.-K. Zool.-bol. Ucscll. U'icn, XLI, Uu. Ill, lig. 44, 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



AGR.ffiCIA ServiUe. 

 1831. Agroecia ServiUe, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 1,52. 

 Type. — Locusta 'punctata ServiUe. 



*Agraeoia maculata Redtenbacher. 



1891. Agrcecia maculata Redtenbacher, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. Gesell. 

 Wien, XLI, p. 455, taf. IV, fig. 63. [Theresopolis, Brazil.] 



November and December, 1904; nine males, eleven females. 



These individuals are perfectly typical of the species except for their 

 smaller size. Considerable variation in size is noticed in the female sex, 

 but no specimen is as large as the measurements given by Redtenbacher. 



The cerci of the male are short, stout and with the apex abruptly 

 tapering; subgenital plate with the apex broad, truncate and with 

 considerable sized lateral false styles. 



The measurements of an average male and the extremes of the female 

 sex are here given : 



Length of body. . 

 Length of pronotum, 

 Length of tegmen, . 

 Length of caudal femur, 

 Length of ovipositor, . 



XIPHELIMUM Caudell. 

 1906. Xiphelimum Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, p. 241. 

 Type. X. amplipennis Caudell. 



Xiphelimum amplipennis Caudell. 



1906. Xiphelimum amplipennis Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 

 p. 241. [Sapucay, Paraguay.] 



March, 1905; seven males. 



These specimens fully agree with the original description of this 

 beautiful species. 



CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg.i^ 



1815. Conocephalus Thunberg, M6m. I'Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Pet^rsb., V, pp. 

 214,271. 



Type by tautonomy C. hemipterus Thunberg = Locusta conocephalus 



Linnseus. 



1831. Xiphidion Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 159. 



Conocephalus longipes (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Xiphidium longipes Redtenbacher, Verhandl. K.-K. Zool.-bot. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, p. 505, taf. IV, fig. 81. [Buenos Ayres, Argentina; 

 Montevideo, Uruguay; Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catharina, Brazil; 

 Peru(?).] 



'' See note on page — under Conocephaloides. 




1907.] VATIHAL StIKMKs OF IMI I I.ADKLl'HIA. 393 



Marcli, 1905: uiic male. 



This specimen has been comparcil with a pair from C'arcarana, 

 Argentina. 



Conooephalus saltator (Saussure). 



1859. Xiphi(liut)i sollalor Saiissuro, Reviio ct Magasin de Zonlojiii', 'ie s«'r 

 XI,p. 20S. [Guiana.] 



March. 1905: one male, four females. 



The ovipositor is practically straight in all the females and al)out 

 thirteen millimeters in length. 



The species ranges from Cuba to Montevideo, Uruguay. 

 Conooephalus strictoides (Caydell). 



1900. Xi/)hi(llii))i strictoklcs Caudoll. Tnic. I'. S. Xat. Mus., XXX, p. 212. 

 [Sapucay. Paraguay.] 



April, 1902; one female. 



This specimen has the tegmina. caudal femora and ovipositor some- 

 what smaller than in the type measurements, but in all other characters 

 the individual agrees perfectly with the original description, except 

 that the dorsmn of the abdomen is marked in ]-)urplish brown with a 

 pattern resembling that of C. striduni. 



(WW ] A. WWW. v.. 

 CAMPTONOTUS Ihler. 

 1864. CaiiiptonoliiK I'liler, Proc. Entnin. Soc. Pliila.. 11. p. .5I>^. 



Type. — C. scuddcri Uhler (= GnjUacris caroline7isis Gerstaecker). 

 *Camptonotus australis n. .-p. 



Types: c^ and ? ; Sapucay. Paraguay. November 10 (o*) and 

 Decem-ber 19 ( ? ), 1905. (William Foster.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Allied to C. corolinensis (Gerstaecker) and affimsHehn. but differing 

 from both in the very robust caudal femora and the heavy, more 

 regularly arcuate and less attenuate ovipositor. 



Size medium: form as usual in the genus; surface glabous. Head 

 with the occiput well arched, longitudinally and transversely; vertex 

 very broad and evenly rounding into the front ; face somewhat flattened ; 

 eyes elongate reniform ; antenntc about four times as long as the body. 

 Pronotum with the dorsal length slightly shorter than the greatest 

 width, the tlorsal outline when viewed laterad slightly con^•ex: cephalic 

 margin of the disk truncate, caudal margin very broadly and shallowly 

 triangular emarginate; lateral lobes broadly rounding into the disk, 

 longer than deep, ventral margin truncate, ventro-cophalic angle 

 obliquely rounded, ventro-caudal angle obliquely subtruncate. 

 Mesonotum anil metanotum with their caudal margins very slightly 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Aug., 



arcuate. Abdomen somewhat comjiressed ; terminal dor.sal alxlominal 

 segment of the male moderately inflated, the apical margin rotundate 

 emarginate, a median longitudinal carina present on the distal half; 



Cumptonotus (m.-^tniJis n. sp. Lateral view of male type. (X 4.) 



male cerci simple, terete, acute, the length about equal to that of the 

 terminal abdominal segment; subgenital plate of the male short; 

 apical margin obtuse-angulate emarginate; ovipositor nearly equal to 



half the length of the body, regularly 



arcuate, moderately stout proximad 



and regularly tapering to the acute 



apex; subgenital plate of the female 



broad trigonal, apex narrowly and shal- 



lowh^ emarginate. Cephalic and median 



limbs moderately rol)ust. Caudal 



femora nearly two and a half times the 



length of the pronotum, strongly inflated, 



the greatest width contained nearly two and a half times in the length, 



ventro-lateral margin with three tt) four spines, internal margin armed 



distad with two spines ; tibiie nt)t exceeding the femora in length. 



General color ochraceous becoming bufty on the limbs, particularly 

 the cau<lal tibia* whicli also have a faint wash of green distad. Eyes 

 bistre. 



Fig. 22. — CoDiptflnotus tiustnili 

 n. sp. Lateral view ol o\i 

 posit or. (X o.) 



Measurcniaitfi. 



d 



Length of l)()dy l.'').5mm. 



Length of jwonotum, o.2 " 



Length of caudal femur 7.o '" 



Tjength of ovipositor 



9 



IG mm. 



3.3 " 



S.9 " 




19U7.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



A paratypic series of four males and three females, taken November, 

 1U04, liave also been examined. Aside from a considerable amount 

 of variation in size no differences worthy of note are apparent. 



GRYLLID^. 



(luvi.i.oTAi.rix i:. 



SCAPTERISCUS Scu.l.ler. 

 Soapteriscus camerani liiglii'-Tn.-. 



1894. S[ai))tcrisciis] Cdinerinti Giglio-Tos, Bolk-U. Mus. Zool. Aiiat. Coiup. 

 Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 45, plate figs. 13 and IG. [Province of rian I'edro, 

 Asuncion, Paraguay.] 



January, 1903; one female. 



This individual is slio:htly smaller than the original measurements for 

 the same sex. but otherwise is perfectly typical. 



CrliVIJ.IX.i:. 



GRYLLUS LinnKus. 

 Gryllus assimilis (FMbriciu>). 



177.5. Achetn a-'^simili-'^ Faljricius, Sy?t. Entom., p. 2S0. [Jamaica.} 



February, 1905; one male, three females. 



These specimens are much paler than Mexican individuals of this 

 species, three of them being especiall)' light in color. 



Gryllus argentinus Saussure. 



1874. Grijllus Arqentinuf< Saus.sure, Miss. Scientif. au Mex. et I'Amer. 

 Cent., Orth., p. 399. [Southern Brazil; Argentine Republic; the north of 

 Patagonia: Bueno.s Ayres; Bahia Blanca; Rio Xegro of Patagonia.] 



July, 1902, February and March. 1905; two males, two females. 



These specimens agree \qvx well with an authentic pair of this 

 species from Buenos Ayres and Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, received 

 from Dr. ."^aussure. 



EXEOPTERIX.E. 

 ENEOPTERA Bunneister. 

 1S3S. Eneoptera Burmeister. Handb. d. Entom., II, .\bth. II, pt. I, p. 736. 

 Type.—Acheta hrasiliensis Fal:)rieius (= Griillus siirinamensis 

 De Geer). 



Eneoptera surinamensis (De Geer). 



1773. Grifllns Surlmmensis De Geer. Mem. Ins., Ill, p. -IIO, pi. 43, ft;?. I 

 [Surinam.] 



March. 1905: three males, two females. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



THE ANATOMY OF CALIFORNIAN HALI0TID5:.i 

 BY CLAYTON F. PALMER. 



The past few 5^ears have witnessed great additions to our knowledge 

 of the anatomy of mollusks, and in this phylum probably no group has 

 received more attention than the prosobranchs. And it is equally 

 true that Avhile the bibliography relating to this last named division 

 has assumed large proportions the results are often of a conflicting 

 nature. Even the comparatively limited family of the Haliotidoe 

 have received their share of consideration, and unfortunately a pro- 

 portionate amount of confusion as well. It is thus apparent that the 

 anatomy of Haliotis merits more study, especially on account of the 

 position this mollusk occupies among archaic forms. Something over 

 a year ago, while studying in the zoology department of Stanford 

 University, Dr. Harold Heath suggested to me that the anatomj' of 

 Haliotis deserved further investigation. The western coast of North 

 America is the habitat of several species of this mollusk, and two of 

 these are readily procurable from the university. Therefore material 

 was never lacking, and as it was of relatively giant size the following 

 results are Ijelieved to be correct. 



The material consisted of specimens of Haliotis rufescens Swn. and 

 H. cracherodii Leach, the red and black abalone respectively. These 

 were taken of various sizes and were examined both by gross dissection 

 and in section. So far as I know, no anatomical details have ever 

 been published concerning any species of Haliotis foimd in this part of 

 the world. Hence the following may serve to corroborate, to some 

 extent, certain facts relating to the genus, and to correct certain mis- 

 statements as well. 



Upon opening the mantle cavity of Haliotis, one first sees the two 

 well developed ctenidia of the distinct bilamellate type, the left being 

 somewhat the larger. Near their bases and against the ventral wall 

 of the rectum may be seen the papilla-like openings of the right and 

 left ureters (text fig. A. RU, LU) ; the right aperture generally has the 



* The present paper was completed over four years ago, "and was intended to 

 form a division of a more extended work relating to the anatomy of various mol- 

 lusks from the western coast of the United States. Owing to other duties it is 

 impossible to carry out the proposed plan, at least wthin the near future, and 

 the results in tlioir original form are herewith presented. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMllLADEI.PHIA. 



397 



more tumid lips of the two. The left duct leads directly into the main 

 cavity of the excretory organ, while the one of the other side opens into 

 a kind of vestibule, which in turn communicates with the main body 

 of the organ. 



The left kidncn in IJaliotis {fi^. 1, PI. XX.\. LK) has become greatly 

 reduced and highly modified; it is now known generally as the papillary 

 sac, a term applied to homologous organs in other members of the group. 

 It lies against the left side of the rectum (R), and extends backward 

 and to a certain extent over the anterior and left surface of the peri- 

 cardial wall (P). With the exception of its right or inner side, where 

 it is contiguous with the rectum, its walls are produced into well devel- 

 oped jjapillae. 



A— 



Fig. A. — Diagram showing relations oi nephridia, poricardium. gonoduct, etc. 

 For lettering see explanation ol' plate. 



Just what functions are sustained l)y this organ is not clear, though 

 several theories have been advanced. I'elseneer ('96) believes it is 

 phagocytic in character. Its walls and papillae are richly supplied 

 with the purest blood ; the organ seems to be the principal excuse for 

 the existence of the pectiliar inter-auricular sinus (fig. A, 7.4) described 

 by other writers for this genus. This blood sinus connects the right and 

 left auricles, coursing along the outer edge of the wall separating the 

 pericardium and left kidney. In sections a coimection may be traced 

 between the wall of the papillary sac and the basibranchial sinus. Its 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ['"^ept., 



blood supply is similar therefore to that in European species of Haliotis, 

 as described by Perrier ('89), Wegmann '(84) and other workers. 

 Whatever function is served by the papillie, it is very evident, judging 

 from their appearance, that they are actively secretory by nature. 



The right kidney (fig. A, RK, RK') is the jDrincipal excretor}^ organ 

 in Haliotis. It is well developed and occupies, in the species under 

 discussion, a position very similar to that described for the European 

 species, H. tuherculata and H. glabra (Haller). From the small cham- 

 ber (IC) immediately behind the lobe (RU), serving as a mouth to 

 the ureter, tliere is a species of vestibule opening posteriorly into larger 

 cavities at the right (RK) and left {RK'). The junction of these is 

 under the forward inner corner of the pericardium (P), the vestibule 

 (/C) corresponding in position to the papillary sac. The last named 

 organ and the vestibule of the right kidney are separated by the rectimi, 

 which is supported between them by a thin dorsal and ventral partition, 

 shown to some extent in fig. 3. PI. XXX, although this section is too 

 far posterior to indicate clearly their true relations. 



Bouvier ('88) recorded an inter-renal communication in A7npuUaria, 

 but this is emphatically denied by Pelseneer ('96). Haller has reported 

 such a state of affairs in Haliotis '' glabra" and Trochus "gibberosus," 

 but very little acceptance has been accorded to the statement. Com- 

 munication may possibly exist in certain mollusca, but it is doubtful 

 if such a connection is present in the genus Haliotis. By referring to 

 figs. 1, 3,5 it will be seen that, in addition to the close contact of the 

 two nephridia as just explained, they are in close proximity at the 

 bottom of the chamber (IC). However, a careful examination of 

 several series of sections through these regions gives no hint of any 

 definite connection. 



From its junction with the vestibule the cavity of the posterior part 

 of the kidne}'' {RK') extends beneath the pericardium and around its 

 inner and posterior surface. The lumen of the anterior portion {RK) 

 is directed forward toward the columellar muscle. Xear the latter it 

 enlarges considerabl}' in a dorso-ventral direction, and becomes in shape 

 and size like an almond seed in specimens of a^'erage size. The outlines 

 of the walls of the kidney itself correspond closely with the cavities 

 just described, and accordingly are similar in all essential regards to 

 the species described b}^ Wegmann ('84), Totzaur ('02) and others. 



The tissue of the right kidney is nowhere verj'- thick; it is disposed 

 more as an intervisceral packing material. The division {RK') in 

 the region of the pericardial cavity is a "ciu'ved mass of spongy tissue, 

 lying under and about the inner side of the pericardium and ending 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



iuuuetliutely bchiml it.s po.'ilero-latt'ral corner. Tlie iiitL'stiual lobe 

 (RK) is somewhat strap-shaped and extends well forward toward the 

 head. In color the ri^lit kidney is of a grayii^h brown tint, varying to 

 M buff shade, llistolouically the tissue consists of minute pouches, or 

 acini, which open into small channels, these into larger ones, and so on 

 to the main ducts. The cells are of the usual cul)ical form, and are 

 crowded with ))igmented waste products of granular appca.ance. 1 

 have seen nolhing in my material that seems to warrant any further 

 discussion of the tissue, which has been well described by others. 



The reproductive si/stc7n in Ilaliotis is interesting, among other things, 

 because of the lateness of its development, and the rapidity of the same 

 when once beguiL Careful microscopical examination of small specimens 

 reveals at best only the slightest development or not even a trace of a 

 germinal epithelium. Even in specimens 3 cm. long the latter is 

 demonstrated with difhculty. In average-sized individuals, and 

 larger, the gonad is well developed, especially at the height of the 

 breeding season, which occurs earlj^ in the rear. The testis is of a 

 cream color, the ovary a slaty green. There is practically no difference 

 in size between the glands of the two sexes, very nearly the entire sur- 

 face of the main visceral mass being covered 1)>' the organ. 



In small specimens of H. cracherodii, of about 2 cul in length, the 

 whole of the visceral mass to the right of the pericardium, except one 

 small area (a portion of the stomach), is of a brownish color. This is 

 due to the extensive liver, which forms the horn-shaped portion of the 

 visceral mass, extending along the right posterior curve of the colu- 

 mellar muscle. At the left of the caecum the stomach is in contact 

 with the body wall, and projecting through the li\-er forms the i regular 

 whitish area noted above. Examined externalh' specimens fully 5 

 cuL in length show no clianges from the condition just described. 

 From this time forward, however, the development of sexual products 

 commences to manifest itself. The first outward indication is a gray- 

 ish tinge at the tip of the horn (of the visceral mass), which gradually 

 extends itself over the remainder of the liver. Individuals 6, or at 

 most 7. cm. in length possess a grayish coating entirely investing the 

 horn. This thickens, and in specimens S cm. long there is a well estab- 

 lished gonad extending to some extent over the main visceral mass. 

 As may be supposed, the thickest part is at the tip of the horn, where it 

 measures about 3 mm. in depth. The males and females of this size 

 exhibit practically no difference in gonad coloration. 



Sections through the gonad of males and females ])etween 7 and 8 

 cm. long revealed sperms or ova that while innnature are in well 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



advanced stages of development. The ova were of oval form, and the 

 heads of the sperms were bacillus-shaped. Even under very high 

 powers no filaments could be detected, though the}- may probably 

 have been destroyed by reagents. The material, it should be added, 

 was collected early in October, while the breeding season does not begin 

 until some time in January or February. From the above it is evident 

 that II. cracherodn does not commence to breed until it is more than 

 9 cm. in length, and it is certain that sexual activity begins at a some- 

 what earlier period with the males than the females. 



In large specimens the gonad may attain as much as half an inch in 

 thickness along the posterior border of the columellar muscle. And 

 the cavity, only potentially present in early stages, becomes now very 

 clearly defined and of considerable size. Tracing it posteriorly and 

 then to the left one may discover the fimnel-shaped gonoduct {GO' , 

 figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, text fig. A). It bends somewhat to the left and narrows to 

 a flattened tube from 3 to 6 mm. in diameter. This opens into the cavity 

 of the kidney, at the left border of the gonad, and the mouth is provided 

 with a flexible valve-like flap, which may serve to prevent the entrance 

 of any sulistances from the kidney. I have found ripe eggs and sperms 

 in the gonoducts of specimens taken the last of December. Perrier 

 ('89) states that the gonoduct of IlaJiotis is closed except at the breed- 

 ing season, but this is certainly not the case in the two species studied 

 by me. In all stages the duct has been open and there was a free 

 passage from the gonad to the kidney. There was no organic obstruc- 

 tion even in specimens 2 cm. long. Fleure ('02) found ova in the peri- 

 cardial cavity of H. tuhcrculata, but this is probably an accidental 

 occurrence, since in the western species the sex products pass from the 

 kidney directly to the exterior. 



The renopericardial canals of prosobranchs have of late been the 

 subject of much controversy, and at the present time the results of 

 various authors are decidedly conflicting. Working upon the Eu- 

 ropean species Wegmann ('84), Perrier ('89) and Erlanger ('92), besides 

 other investigators, found a left renopericardial canal only. Fleure 

 ("02) examined the same species very carefully, but curiously could 

 find no left canal, though he did demonstrate the existence of a right 

 canal. About the same time Totzaur ('02) found both canals, but 

 neither of these investigators has given us any figures nor a detailed 

 account of these much discussed organs. Some time previous to the 

 reports of the above named authors, Haller stated that he had found 

 both canals in H. glabra, and was thus, so far as I am aware, the first 

 to report such a state of affairs for any species of Haliotidoe. 




lf>07.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Ilaliolis uiulouljtedly possesses two renopericardial canals. I have 

 been able to demonstrate their presence, in the two species under dis- 

 cussion in this paper, both macroscopically and microscopically. They 

 may be seen readily in material from upwards of 0.5 cm. in length 

 (the smallest specimens I had) to that over 13 cm. long. 



For a study of these canals it will be well to commence with a con- 

 sideration of sections through specimens about 1.5 cm. long. The 

 first five figures should give one a fairly clear idea of the relations of 

 the renopericardial canals, pericardium, kidneys and gonoduct.^ 

 Neither of the canals is very long, and both may be regarded as funnel- 

 like outgrowths of the pericardium. The left canal (RE) is, however, 

 much the wider, and can be followed far more readily in material 

 properly prepared. 



The left renopericardial canal originates as a wide tube opening 

 into the pericardial cavity somewhat ventral to the point where the 

 rectum pierces the front wall of the same. Fig. 2 (RE') show^s the 

 mouth of this duct at the left lower corner of the pericardium, and that 

 of the right canal (RE) at the opposite corner. The former takes an 

 oblique course along the side and floor of the papillary sac (LK), into 

 which it opens between the papillae Throughout practicalh' its entire 

 extent it is lined with epithelial cells of moderate height apparently 

 totally devoid of cilia. 



The right renopericardial canal (RE) is a more slender duct, extend- 

 ing tow^ards the gonoduct (GO) from the inner, forward angle of the 

 pericardium. Its inner opening is relatively narrow and is situated 

 immediately beneath the right branchial sinus (fig. 2, S). At the right 

 of the pallial sinus (a branch of the branchial sinus) it may be seen 

 entering the side of the gonoduct (fig. 3). In fig. 5, which is six sec- 

 tions farther forwards, the gonoduct may be seen opening freely into 

 the cavity of the kidney at the point GO. In this connection it is to be 

 noted that the ventral wall of the gonoduct is very thin and extends 

 for some distance over the cavity of the kidney, unsupported by any- 

 thing except the body w^all above it. The right renopericardial canal 

 in specimens of this size (1.5 cm.) discharges into the left side of the 

 gonoduct, very close to the mouth of the latter — more so, in fact, than 

 is shown at GO in fig. A. 



An examination of large specimens of Haliotis by gross dissection 

 did not at first appear to confirm the results given above. Accord- 



^ The sections showii in figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of PI. XXX were made parallel with 

 the Une A-B of fig. A. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



ingly similar sections were made throue:h the same region in individuals 

 of both species, and neglecting individual variation the series showed 

 some interesting relations of organs decidedly unlike those just noted. 

 From the study of specimens of smaller size it was found that between 

 1.5 and 3 cm. in length the renopericardial canal and gonoduct undergo 

 a considerable amount of displacement. By referring to fig. 4, repre- 

 senting a section through an individual 3 cm. long, it will be seen that 

 the right renopericardial canal and gonoduct have their apertures facing 

 each other. Material of this size gave very satisfactory results with 

 both species, and a study of sections of animals from 1.5-3 cm. long- 

 made it readily possible to trace where these organs go in assuming the 

 adult condition. 



In individuals 1.5 cm. long the renopericardial canal, which opens 

 into the gonoduct near its end, gradually shifts forward to open by the 

 latter by a common lipped mouth. From this stage on the common 

 mouth of the canal and duct appears to change its position very little, 

 if at all. At the same time the gonoduct, in some inexplicable way. 

 forms for itself a second outlet into the kidney, a short distance away 

 from the original mouth. It is this last named opening that is shown 

 in fig. 4, and the one that in the adult serves for the discharge of the 

 sex products. 



The above statements are interesting not only in themselves, but 

 they appear to me to explain certain other statements lately made. 

 Tobler ('01) reported a second communication between the gonoduct 

 and kidney in Parmophorus, and was followed by Totzaur ('02) with 

 the statement that he had found a similar state of affairs in Haliotis. 

 Neither of these investigators gives the point any explanation ; never- 

 theless I believe both cases may come under the above interpretation. 



Blood System. — In the following discussion of the organs of circula- 

 tion an attempt has been made to explain certain apparently incorrect 

 statements regarding this genus. Generally speaking the broader 

 features of the system are already known. The work of Milne Edwards 

 ('47), Lacaze Duthiers and especially Wegmann ('84) have done much 

 to advance our knowledge along this line. Briefly reviewing their 

 work in the light of the California species, it may be said that the 

 heart is situated on the left posterior side of the visceral mass, a little 

 behind the mantle cavity. The two auricles open into the ventricle, 

 pierced V)y the rectum, and ventricular valves prevent the backward 

 flow of blood. A small anterior aorta (fig. D. Ao) supplies blood to a 

 portion of the mantle on the left side. The first part of its course is 

 upon the dorsal wall of the rectiun. 




1U()7.1 



XATUKAL SCIENCES OF I'llILAUELPHIA. 



403 



The lower i>ostcrior end of the ventricle orifrinates the short common 

 aorta, which at its first branch bears a meml)ranous valve. The visceral 

 aorta, arising posteriorly, bends beneath the posterior end of the visceral 

 mass, supplying blood to the stomach, liver, gonad and that portion of 

 the right kidney immediately behind the pericardium. The main artery 

 continues anteriorly, coursing along in the wall of the body just above 

 the epipodium. It soon develops the genital aorta, which proceeds 

 towards the columellar muscle, giving off branches to the alimentary 

 canal, right kidney, liver and gonad. It continues along tlie horn- 



Livet 



/\urtcle-S 

 Fig. B. — Diagram of Haliodft circulation. 



shaped portion of the visceral ma.'^s, branching freely through the liver 

 and gonad. 



The main or buccal aorta bends in a gentle ciu've to the buccal mass, 

 developing, as it courses forward, branches to the viscera. The radula 

 and its sheath lie freely in its lumen (figs. C. D, BAo). and more ante- 

 riorly it originates a branch of moderate size, which, owing to the fact 

 that it supplies the great adductor muscle, may he known as the colu- 

 mellar artery (fig. D, Co). Reaching the head, the buccal aorta in- 

 creases in calil^re to envelop the buccal mass, thus forming the buccal 

 sinus, ^'entrally this sinus passes into the junction of the two pedal 




404 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



arteries (fig. D, Lpa), with which, by three short canals, the sinus 

 about the pleuro-pedal gangha is brought into connection. The foot 

 is thus suppHed by the above-mentioned vessels and by the neural 

 arteries surrounding the ventral nerve cords. The fact that so im- 

 portant a portion of the nervous system literally floats in a blood sinus 

 gives an excellent clue to this portion of the system in Haliotis. By 

 referring to fig. C it will be seen that the blood, having once gained the 

 sinus about the pleuro-pedal ganglia, is free to work its way about the 

 intestines, and to some extent the remainder of the viscera. The path 

 is not so unobstructed as one might imagine from the figure, but even 

 though a considerable amount of connective tissue does surround the 

 gut, it is nevertheless penetrated by numerous fairly well defined 

 channels. 



M.-t 



Aid 



Fig. C. — Section passing through front end of cohnnellar muscle and pleuro- 

 pedal ganglia. Aps, anterior pedal sinus; Apn, nerves to front end of 

 foot; Lpa, lateral pedal artery; Mn, mantle nerves; CE, oesophagus; 

 Pal.a, pallial artery; Pl + p, pleuro-pedal ganglia; Ps, pallial sinus; Rr, 

 radula muscle; Sub, Sup, sub- and supra-intestinal nerve. For explana- 

 tion of other letters see plate. 



Following back along the cerebro-pleural and pedal connectives the 

 blood finds its path readily into the head cavity. This surrounds the 

 buccal cavity and lies between its wall and that of the head. In it the 

 cerebral ganglia are situated, together with the salivary and sugar 

 glands. It is somewhat indefinitely bounded, but it may be said that 

 it extends posteriorly beyond the hinder border of the sugar glands. 

 Its wall is of a spongy nature, permitting the blood to ooze out of the 

 head cavity into the visceral cavity. The latter is a true hsemocele, as 

 reported by Woodward for Pleurotomaria. At the left upper and 

 posterior end of the head cavity there arises, by two or three roots, 

 the main pallial artery. Passing along the left side of the neck in the 

 body wall (fig. C, Pal.a), it turns somewhat to the left and enters the 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lll LADliLI'III A. 



405 



extrcnu> \v{{ odiiv of tlio mantle. Sending- a l)raiich anteriorly it bends 

 sharjily posteriorly and follows the mantle horder arunnd the visceral 

 mass and up the ri^ht side. The sections show (figs. C, D, Pal. a) this 

 vessel on lioth sides of the body. The artery becomes difficult to trace 

 at the forward left side of the mantle which borders the columellar 

 muscle. This is the vessel which Milne lulwards and AVegmann d(>scribe 

 as a vein, but tliis is certainly an error, as it does not connect with the 

 visceral cavity, but with that of the head. 



The foot of Ildliotis varies somewhat from that of the Old World 

 species so far as the circulation is concerneil. The single lateral pedal 

 artery of each side of the epipoilium in //. rufcscens (figs. C, D, Lpo) 

 is curiously enough represented in //. tuhcrculata, according to Weg- 

 mann, by two arteries, termed 1)y him the su]ierior pedal and inferior 

 external pedal arteries. The foot is pierced freely by blood sinuses, 



Fig. D. — Transverse section through middle of cohunellar muscle ot" //. rvfes- 

 cenn. Ao, anterior aorta; Cn, cohunellar muscle; G, (P, fnonad; K, anterior 

 portion of rifilit kidney. I'or other lette^rs see explanation of plate. 



and injections pass with ease throughout its entire extent even from 

 arteries into veins or vice versa. It is therefore readily seen that the 

 blood of the foot is collected into a large median sinus, of which two 

 sections may be seen in fig. D, PS. At the front end of the foot this 

 makes a gentle bend upward immediately behind the pleuro-pedal 

 ganglia, and turning to the left along that side of the columellar muscle 

 proceeds posteriorly. Throughout the remainder of its coiu'se, this 

 sinus is partially imbedded in the anterior lobe of the right kidney 

 (fig. D, PS), which it drains while en route to the basi-branchial sinus. 

 Its lumen is of more than average size and may be readily followed. It 

 is therefore with questioning that one considers Wegmann's statement 

 to the effect that anteriorly this sinus in //. tubercidata empties into the 

 visceral cavity. Can there be such a radical difference between two 

 27 




406 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



species of the same fj;eiius? Here again it is interesting to note that 

 Pleurotomnria and Haliotis rufescens agree, although Woodward, who 

 had very Uttle material, was not entirely sure of his ground. 



The basi-branchial sinus (PI. XXX, fig. 6, Si) is in reality but the 

 branchial end of the median pedal sinus, that receives also a few veins 

 {NV) from the right kidney. It is provided with a membranous valve 

 (F), which, like the aortic valve, has not been hitherto described, so far as 

 I am able to learn. The former suggests a like structure found in the 

 Cephalopoda that likewise prevents a backward flow of blood from the 

 ctenidia. Reaching these last-named organs through the afferent sinuses 

 (A/, Aj') the blood is collected by the efferent vessels (figs. C, D, Ef), 

 and with that of the pallial sinuses passes to the auricles, together with 

 blood brought by several minor veins. Here, as in H. iuberculata and 

 some other prosobranchs, there is a well-developed sinus connecting the 

 two auricles. 



Though difficult to demonstrate, it appears that the main venous 

 sinus, mentioned in the preceding paragraph, also partially drains 

 the visceral cavity and portions of the intestines. The kidney, espe- 

 ciall}^ the anterior portion, probably aids to a considerable extent in 

 the operation. But the larger part of the blood passing through this 

 organ is that distributed to the viscera, etc., by the visceral and genital 

 arteries. This is carried to the right kidney by a prominent sinus that 

 is seen lying at the border of the liver immediately behind the columel- 

 lar muscle, and above the genital artery. The blood is distributed 

 through the tissue of the kidney by means of a meshwork of fine vessels. 

 In conclusion it may be said that the blood from the papillar}' sac 

 drains into the basi-branchial sinus. 



Bibliography. 



BouviER, E. L. l^tude sur I'Organization des Ampullaires. Mem. publ. par la 



Societe Philomathique. 

 Erlanger, R. 1S92. On the Paired Nephridia oi' Prosobranchs. Quart. Jour. 



Mic. Sci., Vol. 33. 

 Fleure,H. J. 1902. Notes on the Relations of the Kidnej^in Haliotis fuhcrcu- 



lata. Ibid., Vol. 46. 

 Haller, B. 1885. Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Xiere die Prosobranchier. 



Mar ph. Jahrb., Bd. 11. 

 . 1894. Studien iiber Docoglosse und Rhipidoglosse Prosobrancliier, etc. 



Leipzig. 

 Lankester, E. R. 1881. On the Originally Bilateral Character of the Renal 



Organs of Prosobranchs, etc. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), Vol. 7. 

 Pelseneer, p. 1898. Recherches morpholog. et phylog. sur les Molhisques 



archaic. Mem. I'Acad. ray. des sci. de Belgique, T. 57. 

 Thiele, J. 1897. Beitrage zur Kenntnis der Mollusken. Zcit. f. w. ZooL, 



Bd. (32. 




1907.] NATUUAT. SCIENCES OF IMII LADKM'III A. 407 



TuuLKU, -M. IDUl. Zur Aualoinir Mm I'anuopliorus iiitfrnn-ilius Uocvc. ^Jcn. 



Zeit. /. Naturw., lid. 30. 

 ToTZ.vuKR, R. J. 1902. Xicron- und (iouadvcrliiiltiiissc \un Ualioti.s. Zoul. 



Anz.,Bd.2ry. 

 Wegm.wn, II. ISSI. Cdiitril). a riiistoin* naturcll<' drs Ilalintidcs. ArcJi. 



ZooL cvprr. (2), T. 11. 

 Wo()i)\v.\HD, M. F. 1901. Tlie Anatomy of Plrunitoinaria licrichii. (Juart. 



Jour, ^[ic. Sri., Vol. 44. 



EXPLAXATIOX OF FIGURES. 



The loUowinir IcIUt^ liavc boon used in tho oxplaiiation of tlic (ijiures: 



-l, antorior aorta. LI, blood sinus of lot't kitlnev. 



.40, main aorta. W, vestibule of right kidney. 



BA, buccal aorta. L/, liver. 



COL, cohnnellar muscle. LU, left ureter. 



EF, loft efferent branchial sinus. PAL, right pallial .sinus. 



GA, g(>nital aorta. R, rectum. 



GO', gonoduct. RE, RI^', renopericardial canals. 



GO, gonoduct optuiing into right kid- RK, RK' , kidney lobes. 



ney. RU , right ureter. 



/, intestine. VL, aortic valve. 



EXPL.\NATI0X OF PlATE XXX. 



Fig. 1. — Section through both kidneys of specimen of Ilaliolis rufescens, 1.5 cm. 

 long, viewed posteriorly. //F, hypobranchial gland; IC, right kidney 

 cavity; RD, end of radula; ST, stomach. 



Fig. 2. — Portion of //. rufescens showing pericardium, left kidney, sinus and 

 gonoduct. COL, columoUar muscle ; 0, gonad. 



Fig. 3. — Seventh section anterior to fig. 1. E, right efTerent branchial sinus; 

 P', right pallial sinus. 



Fig. 4. — Section through right renopericardial canal and gonoduct of H. cracher- 

 odii, 3 cm. long. 



Fig. 5. — Sixth section anterior to that shown in fig. 3, showing opening of gono- 

 duct into right kidney. 



Fig. 6. — H. rufescena, dorsal wall of mantle reflected and basi-branchial sinus 

 opened. Af, Af, right and left afferent branchial sinuses; HyG, hypo- 

 branchial gland; LCt, left ctenidium; LU, left ureter; MC, mantle cavity; 

 XV, veins from right kidney; R, rectum; Si, branchial sinus; V, valve. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



NOTES ON THE CIRRIPEDE GENUS MEGALASMA. 

 r.Y HEXRY A. PILSBRY. 



The genus Megalasma was instituted by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek^ for a 

 pentaspidian barnacle dredged by the Challenger in the Philippine 

 Archipelago , which was said to differ from Poecilasma by having the 

 umbo of the scutum situated on the occludent margin above the basal 

 angle, whereas in Pcecilasma the umbo is at the basal angle, as in all 

 other LepadirKv. 



In my work on the cirripedes of the U. S. National Museum,- I had 

 occasion to show that Poecilasma, as understood by Hoek and Gruvel, 

 consists of two series of species, (1) those with the sides of the carina 

 narrow (= Pmcilasma Darwin), and (2) those with the sides notably 

 widened towards the base. Moreover, this second group differs from 

 Megalasma only by having the base of the scutum nearly at a right 

 angle with the occludent border, while in the type of Megalasma the 

 basal margin has rotated through an arc of about 90°, bringing it in 

 line with the lower part of the occludent margin. The position of the 

 umbo is morphologically the same in Megalasma and Poicilasma — that 

 is, at the base of the occludent margin proper, where this joins the 

 peduncular margin. The alleged elevation of the umbo on the occlu- 

 dent margin in Megalasma does not exist. It is merely apparent on 

 account of the continuity of the occludent and peduncular margins, as 

 shown in fig. 2a, where the umbo is at u, the margin of the peduncular 

 orifice at po. In my opinion, therefore, the genus Pcecilasma should be 

 restricted to species like those included by Darwin, while all forms with 

 the sides of the carina wide and the internal plate well developed must be 

 transferred to Megalasma. The mere change in the shape of the 

 scutum at the borders of the peduncular foramen is insufficient for the 

 separation of genera. 



Megalasma, in the limits here assigned, is distinguished from Poeci- 

 lasma by the structure of the carina, which has wide sides near the base, 

 and a well-developed oblique plate or septum within the base, bridging 

 across the cavity of the carina, and terminating above in two projec- 

 tions or teeth. The species of Poecilasma chiefly live upon the cara- 



' Challenger Report, VIII, Cirripedia, p. 50, 1SS3. 

 2 Bulletin of the U. S. Nat. Mtis., No. 60, p. 82, 1907. 




1907 



XATriJAI. SriF.NCES OF PHir.ADKI.l'iriA. 



409 



paces of crabs, while Mcnalasnid has been t'ouiid uKiiiily on sea-urdiin 

 spines and upon otlier cirripo(h>s. 



Megalasina carinodcutaliDn Weltner' was describecl from a single 

 example, and derived its name from the projection or tooth on the 

 roof of the carina. Tliis ]:)rojection, however, may very likely be patho- 

 logic, consequent upon an injury at the end of th(> carina when half 

 iirown. 



CdMPAUISOX OK M. IJKLLU.M AND M. MIXUS. 



.1/. helium (Pils.)' is closely related to M. minus Annandale.''' The 

 receipt of specimens of tlie latter, which 1 owe to the courtesy of Dr. N. 

 Annandalc, of the Indian Museum, enables me to compare the two 

 species more thorougiily tluui has hitherto been possible^ since the 



Fip;. 1. — Megaliisma minus Annaiid. 

 a, lateral, and b, ^•entral view, X 7^. 

 po, margin of tlie peduncular orifice. 



Fig. 2. — M. helium Pils. a, lateral, and 

 b, ventral view, X 4. u, umbo of the 

 scutum. 



published figures show onh' the external aspect of the capitulum, and 

 the internal features have not been described or figured. 



Megalasnm minus and M. helium are alike in' general shape and in 

 sculpture, but differ in size and in various details of the scuta and 



' Silzungft-herichte der Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin, Jahrg. 

 1891. p. 84. 



* PftcUasma bellum Pilsbry, Bulletin of the Bureau of Fisheries, XXVI, p. 183. 

 pi. IV, fig. 6 (June 29, 1907). This paper was prepared in 1905, hence before 

 I knew of the existence of .1/. minus. 



* Megalasmn striatum subsp. tninus .\nnandale, .1 tnials and Magazine of Natural 

 Historii, SOT. 7, XMT, p. 399 (April, 1906); Illu.strations of the Zoology of the 

 Royal Indian Marine Svu-\ev Ship Investigator, Entomostraca, pi. 1, fig. 8 (1907). 




410 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept. 



carina. M. minus is slightly narrower than M. helium throughout. The 

 dimensions of the type were not given by Dr. Annandale in his original 

 account, but the name implies that it is smaller than M. striaium, which 

 has a capitulum 11 mm. long. The figure of his type, subsequent!}^ 

 published, is said to be enlarged six diameters, which would make 

 the capituhun about 9 mm. long. The largest specimen I have 

 seen, a 9 bearing a large mass of eggs, measures 6.5 mm. in length of 

 capitulum. M. helium attains a much greater size. The type is 14.5 

 mm. long, and I have seen a great number of specimens from many 

 localities with capitula from 12 to 15 mm. long. 



Fig. 3. — a, internul view of the left scutum and tergum of M. minus, X 10, and 



6, M. helium, X 5. 



The lateral borders of the peduncular foramen, in a lateral view of 

 the capitulum, are nearly straight in M. helium (fig. 2, po), but in M. 

 minus these margins arch outwards more or less strongly (fig. 1, po). 



The primitive valves, visible at the umbones, are convex, densely 

 cellular in both species, irregularly trapezoidal in outline, with sub- 

 parallel occludent and dorsal borders, the latter much the shorter. The 

 anterior (basal) end is squarely truncate, the posterior end oblique. In 

 M. minus the primitive valves measvtre 0.66 mm. long, 0.25 wide (pl.31 , 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OV IMIILADKLI'llIA. 



411 



fig. 9). Ill .1/. helium the valves are a little wider, nieasurinp; 0.75 x 0.3^ 

 mm. Ill hotii species a ritlge or angle close to the occludent bonier of 

 the scutum defines a narrow and nearly flat ventral area; and towards 

 the base a smooth sunken area separates the primitive valves and the 

 sculptured portions of the scuta, as shown in figs. \b, 'lb. 



The scuta, when removed, are seen to differ in various respects. 

 The occludent border is more bowed in .1/. bdlum, and the basal por- 

 tion, below the umbonal tooth, is wider than in .1/. minus. In ])oth 

 species the umbonal tooth is stout and higii in l)()tli valves. There is 

 no socket in the carinal margin for the reception of tiie tooth of the 

 carina, such as Hoek described and figured in M . striatum (see fig. 3). 



h m 



Fig. 4. — M. minus, carina in i'entral Fig. .5. — M. helium, carina in ventral 

 and lateral views. and lateral views. 



The carina in M. minus (fig. 4) has much narrower sides, which are 

 more expanded at the baso-lateral angles. The basal margin has a 

 rounded median projection, and the articulating teeth are larger. In 

 M. bdlum (fig. 5) the basal margin is simply arcuate. In other respects 

 the carinas are similar. The shape of the base of the carina affects the 

 shape of the peduncular foramen, as view-ed from the ventral side (see 

 figs, lb and 26). The difference of shape is equally pronounced if M. 

 minus is compared with young specimens of M. helium, of equal size. In 

 M. minus the basal angles of the carina are more produced, and spread 

 apart farther than in M .bdlum. The septum across the cavity is situated. 




^412 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



higher than in species of the subgenus Glyptelasma, l)ut otherwise the 

 carina is very similar to that of G. subcarinatum, etc. The carina of 

 M. minus ilhistrated (fig. 4) is 4.8 mm. long; that of M. bellum (fig. 5) 

 is 7.8 mm. long. The terga are similar in general shape in M. minus, 

 M. bellum and M. carinodentatum. In the former two there is a small 

 acute tooth on the scutal margin, near the occludent end. In M. 

 striatum the terga are much higher, and are pointed at the carinal end. 



The peduncle is slightly longer in M. helium than in M. minus, 

 though it is very short in both species. 



In M. helium the first cirrus has rami of 8 segments, the outer ramus 

 broader, with the segments conspicuously convex and profusely spinose 



Fig. G. — M. minus, 7th and Stli sc{ 

 raents of ei)-nis ^'.' 



Fig. 7 



-A[. bellum, lOtli and lltli .seg- 

 ments of cirrus \'. 



on both marigns. The inner face is also profusely spinose. It is very 

 like the first cirrus of M. striatum as figured by Hoek." The inner ramus 

 is narrower, only the distal segments projecting laterally. The posterior 

 margins and inner face of each segment is spinose. The other cirri are 

 slender, with 16 to 19 segments. Except the basal and distal segments, 

 they have four pairs of large and one pair of small spines on the anterior 

 border of each segment, and a tuft of three or four unequal small spines 

 at the distal posterior angle of each segment (fig. 7, lOth and 11th 

 segments of cirrus V). 



' Challenger Report, VIII, Cirripedia, pi. 2, fig. 9. 



' In this figure the cirri of M. minus are represented on a hirger scale than those 

 of M. helium. Thej^ are actually very much smaller. 




1007.] XATIUAL SCIENCES OF I'll I LADKIJ'IIIA. 413 



111 .1/. tNinits the lirst cii-i-i arc foniietl about as in .1/. bcUiini. Tlie 

 other cirri are eoinparatively more slender, with only three pairs of 

 loufi spines on the front niari>;in of each se<>;nu'nt. and a fourth very 

 minute pair below them. Tlie posterior distal angle of each segment 

 lias one long spine, a shorter one, and usually one or two minute spines 

 (fig. (). 7tii and 8th segments of cirrus V). 



The cirri of .1/. hcUum resemble those of .1/. striatuin. and M. cari- 

 inittni). while those of .1/. viinus are like tlu> cirri of M. gracile as 

 (lescri])ed 1)\- lloek. It will he understood that in comparisons of the 

 cirri the int(>rnie(liato segments are described, unless otherwi.se stated, 

 riu" distal and proximal segments generally have fewer pairs of spines 

 on the front margin. 'Vhr socimkI cirrus usually has additional spincv. 

 variously arranged. 



In .1/. minus the mandible (pi. 31, figs. 7, 8) has four acute teeth, 

 counting the lower point. The space between the upper and second 

 teeth is double that separating the other teeth. Below the lower tooth 

 there is a slender spine representing the lower point developed in most 

 species of Megalasma and Pcecilasma, and shown enlarged in fig. 8. 

 Both upper and lower borders of the mandible have delicate spiny 

 fringes, the spinules in ])art arranged in pairs. The two mandibles are 

 alike in the example dissected. 



The maxilla (pi. 31, fig. 6) has a deep notch below the upper pair of 

 arge spines. Below the notch the edge projects and is closely spinose, 

 as usual. The upper and lower borders are delicately fringed. 



In M. bellum the mandibles (pi. 31, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4) resemble those 

 of M. minus, except in having the lower point split into two teeth (figs. 

 3, 4) on one side of the individual examined, there being therefore five 

 teeth in all. The other mandible of the same individual has the lower 

 point split into foiu- narrow teeth (figs. 1,2). Part of the spines on the 

 surface, near \hv lower points, stand in groups of two or three, as 

 shown in the detail figs. 2 and 4. They also are in groups on the 

 upi^er edge of the mandible, but elsewhere stand singh^ The surface 

 spines are drawn with camera in figs. 2, 4 and S, but in the other figures 

 only the general effect is given. 



The maxilla (pi. 31, fig. 5) resembles that of M. minus, except for the 

 somewhat greater protrusion of the lower part of the spinose edge. 



The hermaphrodite form of .1/. bellum has a long penis, sparsely 

 hairy, with a more profuse bmich of hairs at the distal entl. 



The individual of .1/. minus dissected contained a large egg-mass. 

 The eggs are ovate-piriform, 0.23 mm. long (pi. 31 . fig. 10). 



It will be seen from the above descriptions and figures that while 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



related, M. minus antl M. helium differ in many details of structure, the 

 scuta, carina, cirri and mandibles all being diverse in the two forms, 

 which must be held specifically distinct. M. striahmi Hoek is related 

 to M. helium by the cirri and mandibles, but differs in the terga and 

 the sculpture of the bases of scuta and carina, etc. It differs from M.- 

 ininus by the same characters of the plates, and also by the armature of 

 the cirri and to some extent in the mandil)les. 



MeGALASMA GR AGILE AND M. GRACILIUS. 



Megalasma gracile (Hoek) was originally described (as Pcccilasma 

 gracile) from a Challenger station off Sydney, New South Wales. I have 

 elsewhere called attention to the doubt attaching to material from this 

 station, owing to the mixture therein of molluscan species otherwise 

 kno^^'n only from the Atlantic, with others known to be Australian.** 

 That Megalasma gracile was really from the Australian station is 

 rendered more probable by the discovery of several specimens in the 

 Indian Ocean by the Indian Marine Survey, as recorded by Dr. Annan- 

 dale.^ The western Atlantic M. g. gracilius may prove to be identical 

 with Hoek's form, yet in view of the wide geographic separation, and 

 of several minor differences in the plates, I have thought best to 

 segregate it as a subspecies. This course is likely to prove less injuri- 

 ous to science than an inconsiderate lumping of forms from widely 

 separated areas, without actual comparison of specimens. Dr. Ploek 

 has written well on this topic. *° 



The cirri of M. gracilius differ somewhat from those of M. gracile as 

 described l3y Hoek.^^ He states that the posterior pair of cirri have 

 segments "bearing as a rule four pairs of spines, the lowest pair of 

 which is very minute, the second pair minute." 



In M. gracilius the posterior cirri have five or six pairs of spines, the 

 lower pair minute, on the 6th to 10th segments; beyond that point 

 there are four pairs, then decreasing to three, and finally one or two on 

 the outermost segments. Cirri iii to vi are practically alike. Cirrus ii 

 has many additional spines, partly disposed in a row parallel to that on 

 the anterior border, partly arising along the distal border of each seg- 

 ment. The inner ramus is mucli the longer, comi)osed of 15 segments,, 

 the outer having 13 segments. 



** Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., \o. 60, p. S9. 

 ^ Rexords of the Indian Mufieum, I, pt. 1, p. <S1, 

 '" ChaUengcr Report, VIII, Cirripedia, p. 145. 

 " CJiidlfiKjtr Report, Cirripedia, p. 47. 




1007.] XATfUAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 415 



The inaudible of M. (iniciliu.s is similar to lloek's liu\n-e of that of M . 

 <iracilc. the lower point being minutely iMfiil. 



Key to Species of Megalasma. 



a. — Pc;huicular margins of scutum and carina continuous with the 

 occludent margin, in the same direction, the umlxj of the scutimi 

 therefore aliove the basal angle of the plate. Indo-Pacific 



province, {Megalasma s. sir). 



b. — A pedimcular area on each side defined by a semicircular 

 ridge on the bases of scutum and carina; roof of the carina 

 very wide; width of scutum about two-thirds its length; 

 tergum triangular, the occludent margin about half the 

 length of the scutal. rapituluni 11 mm. long. Phili))pine 



Archipelago ^1/. striatum Irloek. 



h'. — Peduncular area defined by a semicircular groove; width of 

 scutum slightly more than half its length; tergum cjuad- 

 rangular, the occludent margin about one-fourth as long 

 as the scutal margin. Capitulum 6.5 mm. long. Indian 



Ocean M. carinodcntatum Weltner. 



h" . — Xo distinctly defined pedimcular area on the liases of scuta 

 and carina; scutum nearly twice as long as wide; occludent 

 margin of terg\un about one-third the length of the scutal 

 margin. 

 c. — Basal margin of carina straight with a rounded median 

 projection, the sides narrower than in P. helium; 

 lateral margins of the peduncular orifice arched for- 

 ward. Capitulum 6.5 to mm. long. Segments of the 

 cirri w4th 3 pairs of large spines, 1 pair of ver}' small 

 ones. Andaman Sea, . . M. minus Annandale. 



c'. — Basal margin of carina convex, deeply arched, the sides 

 wide; lateral l)orders of the peduncular orifice straight. 

 Capitulum 12 to 15 mm. long. Segments of cirri with 

 4 pairs of long spines, 1 pair of small ones. Hawaiian 



Islands, M. helium Pilsbry. 



a'. — Peduncular or basal margin of scutum making about a right angle 

 with the occludent margin, the umbo of the scutmn at the baso- 

 ventral angle of the plate. . (subgenus Glyptelasma Pilsbry). 

 h. — Umbo of the carina projecting beak-like behnv the base of the 

 scutum, and making an angle with it. 

 c. — Basal margin of carina as long as the basal margin of the 

 scutum; internal basal plate long, lozenge-shaped; 

 sides wide in the lower half. 

 d. — Peduncle about one-third the length of the capitulum ; 

 basal margin of scutum half the width of carina 

 near its base. Capitulum 7 nun. long. Off Aus- 

 tralia; Indian Ocean. . . . .1/. f/raci/c Hoek. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.,. 



d'. — Peduncle extremely short; basal margin of scutmn: 

 about equal to the width of the carina; posterior 

 cirri with more numerous spines. Capitulum 11 

 to 12.7 mm. long. Off eastern United States, 



71/. g. gracilius Pilsbry. 

 c' . — Basal margin of carina shorter than that of the scutum; 

 internal plate short, wdder than long; sides wide in the 

 lower third. Capitulum 19 mm. long. Off eastern 

 United States, .... M. annandalei Pilsbry. 

 h'. — Umbo of the carina not produced ])elow the basal margin of 

 the scutum. 

 c. — Occludent margin of scutum nearly straight; carina with 

 rather narrow sides, abruptly spreading and auriculate 

 at the base, the basal margin a straight line. Capit- 

 ulum 15.5 mm. long. Off eastern United States, 



M. rectum Pilsbry. 



c'. — Occludent margin arched; carina with wide sides and a 



large internal basal plate, its basal margin V-shaped, 



as seen from below. 



d. — Jjength of capitulum three times its breadth, the base 



narrow; scutum almost smooth. Length 14 mm. 



Off Culebra and Ascension Islands, 



M. carinaium Hoek. 



d'. — Length of capitulum twice its breadth ; scutum 



sculptured wdth spaced concentric grooves and 



fine radial impressions. Capitulum 16 to 25 mm. 



long. Off eastern L^nited States, 



M. suhcarinatum Pilsbry. 



Explanation of Plate XXXL 



Figs. 1-4. — Megalasma hdlum (Pils.). Mandil)le.s and more enlarged lower 



points of same. 

 Fig. 5. — M. helium. Maxilla. 

 Fig. 6. — M . minus Annand. Maxilla. 



Figs. 7, 8. — M. minus. Mandible and its lower point more enlarged. 

 Fig. 9. — M. minvs. Outline of primitive shell and adjacent margin of the 



scutmii. 

 Fig. 10. — M. 77)inus. (iioup of ova. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1907. 



PLATE X.V. 



M 



OORE. NEW SPIONIFORMIA. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XVI. 



MOORE. NEW SPIONIFORMIA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. i;J07 



PLATE XVll. 



^^^K^r-^ 



BURNETT SMITH ON PYRULA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907 



CRAWLEY ON GREGARINES 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. iUOl . 



PLATE XIX. 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE WHELKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XX. 



-^ 



\ 



I 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE WHELKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 100" 



PLATE XXI. 



VANATTA. LEAF HAIRS OF LESQUERELLA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907 



PLATE XXIIl 



CONKLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907 



PLATE XXIV. 



CONKLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXV. 



CON KLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCl. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXVI. 



CONKLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE .X.XVII. 



CONKLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



CONKLIN. EMBRYOLOGY OF FULGUR. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXIX. 



I'ilsbrv flel. 



PILSBRY. PACIFIC CIRRIPEDES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1907. 



PLATE XXX. 



E RE O O 



[!|' iii/kii-y^ 



MO L Ct. 



C.FPJel 



PALMER ON HALIOTID/E 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA 1907. 



PLATE XXXI. 



6 8 mW 10 



PILSBRY ON THE CIRRIPEDE GENUS MEGALASMA 





1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



October 1. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The Secretaries, Librarian and Curators reported on the work of the 

 summer. 



The Publication Committee reported that papers under the follow- 

 ing titles had been presented for publication since the last meeting : 



" Notes on the Leaf Hairs of Lesquerella," by E. G. Vanatta (May 23). 



"Notes on Serranidae," by Ilemy W. Fowler (May 25). 



"Orthoptera from Northern Florida," by James A. G. Rehn and 

 Morgan Hebard (June 12). 



" Bertramia bufonis, a new Sporozoan Parasite of Bufo Icntiginosus," 

 by Helen Dean King (June 12). 



"Moundville Revisited," by Clarence B. Moore (July 11). 



"Crystal River Revisited," by Clarence B. Moore (July 11). 



"Mounds of the Lower Chattahoochee and Lower Flint Rivers,'' 

 by Clarence B. Moore (July 11). 



"Notes on the Ten Thousand Islands, Florida," by Clarence B. 

 Moore (July 11). 



"The Embryology of Fulgur: A Study of the Influence of Yolk on 

 Development," by Edwin G. Conlvlin (July 12). 



"Notes on some Pacific Cirripedes," by Henry A. Pilsbry (July 16). 



"The Anatomy of California Haliotidae," by Clayton F. Palmer 

 (July 23). 



"On the Synonymic History of the Genera Clava 'Martyn and 

 Ceritliium Bruguiere," by William Healy Dall (July 26). 



"Orthoptera of the Families Tettigonidse and Gryllidai from 

 Sapucay, Paraguay," by James A. G. Rehn (August 14). 



"Notes on the Cirripede Genus Megalasma," by Henry A. Pilsbry 

 (September 25). 



"A Collection of Fishes from Victoria, Australia," by Henry W. 

 I'owler (October 1). 

 28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The four papers by Mr. Clarence B. Moore will constitute the third 

 number of Volume XIII of the Journal of the Academy. 



The deaths of Joseph E. Gillingham, 1906, and Angelo Heilprin, 

 July 17, 1907, members, and of Sir Joseph Fayrer, M.D., a corre- 

 spondent, were announced . 



October 15. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Sixty-six persons present. 



The death of Anna T. Jeanes, a member, September 24, 1907, was 

 announced. 



Dr. Henry Leffman made a speculative communication on life in 

 other worlds, considering some of the data on which the assumption of 

 life elsewhere might be based. (No abstract.) 



Dr. F, Creighton Wellman and Edgar T. Wherry were elected mem- 

 bers. 



The following was ordered printed : 




1007.1 NAITHVL SCIENCES OF I'l 1 1 1, \ DIChPlHA. 419 



A COLLECTION OF FISHES FROM VICTORIA AUSTRALIA 

 BY IIEKHY W. FOWLER. 



The Academy has recently received through the Conchological 

 Department a collection of marine fishes from Victoria, Australia. 

 This collection was made by Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon, of IMelbourne, and 

 though reported in full in this paper, embraces a few specimens secured 

 in the southern Pacific which are listed in footnotes. Evidently most 

 all the others were obtained along the coast of Victoria. The entire 

 collection has been presented by the Conchological Department to the 

 Academy. Some of the specimens are in bad preservation. 



SGYIilORHINID^I. 

 Catulus analis (Ojrilby). 



Folu- egg-cases agreeing with Dr. Waite's figures. Besides these 

 there are egg-cases of other sharks which I am unable to identify, and 

 whichjprobably belong to the genera Hctcrodoutus, Scyliorhinus and 

 Crossorhinus. 



DASYATID^ 

 Trygonoptera testacea Miillor and Ilcnle. 



A tail with 2 spines and small dorsal agrees with Miiller and Henle's 

 figure. Two other large spines, the larger IOtV inches long, probably 

 belong to some species of Dasyatis. Another tail with a well-developed 

 dorsal fin close in front of the spine belongs probably to Myliobatis. 



CHIM^RID^. 

 PSYCHICHTHYS subgen. nov. 

 Type Hydrolngas ivaitei sp. nov. 

 Differs from subgenus Hydrolagus Gill, in the entire or undivided 

 dorsal. 



('/'T.^r,, ghost; '-/One, fish; with reference to the vernacular given to 

 these fishes in Australian seas.) 



Hydrolagus waitei sp. nov. Fig. l. 



Head about 5; depth about 5|: snout 1| in head; eye 6}; width of 

 mouth 3; maxillary 3^ ; interorbital space 3^; pectoral about 1 \. 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Oct. 



Body elongate, well compressed, and tapering from head into a long 

 slender tail, though not filamentous. Greatest depth falls about origin 

 of pectoral. 



Head large, compressed, its width about 2^, and its depth nearly 

 equal to its length. Upper profile of head rather evenly convex, and 

 well inclined to base of dorsal spine, depression above eye probably 

 due to shrinkage. Lower profile of head forming a broad triangle at 

 lower symphysis of mandible. Snout long, broad, its greatest width 

 about I3- in its length. Eye small, rounded, high, or near upper profile 

 of head, and a trifle behind middle of its length. Mouth broad, trans- 

 verse, inferior. Lips thick and fleshy. Teeth evidently damaged. 

 At present upper jaw with 2 small approximated flat triangular laminae, 

 •and posteriorly along each side of upper jaw a broad and also long 

 lamina extending far back. On each of these upper plates are 2 series 



Fig. 1. — Hydrolagus waitci Fowler. (Type.) 



of slightly elongated obsolete asperous patches and well separated. 

 Mandible consisting of 2 trenchant strong plates, division or approxi- 

 mation at symphysis, and their edges entire. Maxillary covered above 

 more or less by skin of preorbital region, and its distal extremity falls 

 about half an eye-diameter anterior to front margin of eye. 



Gill-openings small, inferior, below origin of pectoral and forming a 

 '■ fold over isthmus well in advance of latter. 



First dorsal inserted a trifle before origin of pectoral, and furnished 

 with a long strong spine, well compressed, its anterior edge sharply 

 trenchant, and its length a little greater than head, possibly an eye- 

 <liatneter more. Posterior margins of dorsal spine with rather broad 




1907.] XATl-HAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



low trenchant kccls^ somewhat of spinesccnt form, and about 30 in 

 number. Origin of second dorsal (damaged) begins apparently a. 

 little after origin of ventrals and extends back as a low, though also 

 apparently entire, rayed fin to caudal, where it is entirely separat.c<i. 

 It appeared to be about of even height throughout its length. Caudal 

 encircles tail, rather high above at first, or this about equal to eye- 

 diameter, and its length equal to dorsal spine. It gradually tapers to 

 end of tail above, though below is lowest anteriorly. Pectoral large, 

 broad, and apparently only reaching ventral. Ventral much smaller 

 than pectoral, and inserted apparently but slightly if any before tip of 

 latter, though apparently well before tip of depressed dorsal spine. 



Color entirely faded in dried example to dull brownish. 



Length about 12 inches. 



Type. No. 33,119, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species resembles Chimccra ogilhyi Waite, Rep. Thciis, 1898, j). 

 41, PI. 11. It differs however in the dorsal spine being trenchant 

 along its anterior edge, serrated along its posterior edges and equal to. 

 or a trifle longer than, the head. Other differences may be seen in the 

 shorter snout, shorter pectoral, shorter caudal and apparently more 

 posterior insertion of the second dorsal. However these differences 

 may be accepted only provisionally, as it has been necessary to restore 

 the accompanying figure to some extent. The length of the dorsal 

 spine and tail are however undoubtedly points of difference. This 

 species differs from Hydrolagus colliei (Bennett) in the longer dorsal 

 spine, entire second dorsal and smaller eye. It is possible Chimcera 

 ogilhyi is also a Hydrolagus, though the caudal is long, its tail could 

 hardly be considered filamentous like that of Chimcera monstrosa 

 Linnspus. It resembles Chimcera monstrosa var. australis Hector, 

 Trans. Proc. New Zeal. Inst., XXXIV, 1901 (1902), p. 239, PI., 14„ 

 from New Zealand, but differs in the shorter tail and absence of the. 

 anal. 



(Named for Dr. Edgar R. Waite for his many excellent contribu- 

 tions to Australian ichthyology.) 



CHEILOBRANCHIDJB. 

 Cheilobranchus rufus (Mjuloay). 



One example agreeing with Dr. Waite's figure in Rec. Austr. Mus., 

 VI, No. 3, 1906, p. 195, PI. 36, fig. 1. 



MYRID^. 



Muraenichthys devisi sp. nov. Fig 2. 



Head about 10 (end of tail damaged); depth at thorax 3i in heaid; 




422 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



will til of lioacl 5V; snout 4^; gape 3; maxillary 2A ; eye 3} in snout; 

 interorbital space 2. 



Body long, slender, compressed, and edges api)arently convex. 

 Cireatest depth at thorax, and otherwise trunk of about equal depth 

 throughout. Tail long, slender, more or less compressed and tapering. 

 Head and trunk H in tail (damaged). 



Head small, compressed, attenuated, and swelling into a rather 

 deep thorax. Jaws long, slender, and with upper a little more con- 

 vexly elevated than lower. Snout long, slender, its tip projecting well 



^■Vt"'-'?'^' 





Fig. 2. — Murauiicfithys derisi Fowler. (Type.) 



beyond mandible, and its sides rather steep. Eye large, a trifle longer 

 than deep, its center falling about last fourth in space between tip of 

 snout and corner of mouth, and its lower margin close to edge of 

 mouth. Maxillary concealed, though projecting a little beyond pos- 

 terior corner of mouth. Mouth large, gape long. Jaws slender, rather 

 narrow and furnished with rather large teeth. In upper jaw along 

 edges teeth biserial, and on vomer imiseriaL Teeth in mandible at 

 first biserial a short distance from symphysis, and then uniserial, 

 though of somewhat irregular size. Teeth in upper jaw not quite so 

 irregular in size. Anterior nostril in a small tube near tip of snout, 

 and posterior a rather large pore on lower external margin of upper 

 lip just below front of eye. Interorbital space rather narrow and 

 convexly elevated. 



Gill-opening small and a little low. 




I'JOi 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



423 



Skill naked ami smooth, without any scales. A few rather large 

 p()r(>s on supper surface of iieatl. Lateral line apparently- continuouS;^ 

 and rather superior along side of trunk. 



Vertical fins only developed, low, dorsal and anal probably continu- 

 ous ? (damagetl) around caudal. Dorsal inserted aVjout first fourth of 

 space between gill-opening and vent. No pectoral. 



Color of dried alcoholic largely faded brownish, upper surface all 

 mottled or specked with deeper brow^nish to dusky. Lower surface 

 of head ami all of abdomen to vent pale immaculate brown. Tail all 

 specked like upper surface of trunk. Vertical fins all pale brownish. 



Length 5^ inches ? (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 33,120, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species is closely related to Munenichlhys hreviceps Gunther, 

 Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (4), XVII, 1876, p. 401, from Tasmania. It 

 differs in the more anterior insertion of the dorsal fin. 



(Named for Dr. Charles W. Dc Vis, ^\•ho has contributed to the 

 ichthyology of Australia.) 



Fip. ^.—MurcenichthijR ogllbyi Fowler. (Type.) 



Muraenichthys ogilbyi sp- nov. Fi;;. :?. 



Head about 11^; depth at thorax 2\ in head; width of head 3^; 

 snout 4^; gape 2|; maxillary 2; eye 2 J in snout; interorbital space 2. 



Body very long, slender, well compressed, and edges rather convexly 

 rounded. Greatest depth at thorax, and otherwise trunk of about more 

 or le.ss equal depth. Tail long, slender, compressed and tapering. 

 Head and trunk \% in tail. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Head small, compressed, attenuated, and swelling into a rather deep 

 thorax. Jaws long, slender, and with equally convex sui'faces above 

 and below. Snout long, slender, its tip projecting well beyond man- 

 dible, and sides not steep. Eye a trifle longer than deep, its center fall- 

 ing about last fourth in space between tip of snout and corner of 

 mouth, and its lower margin close to edge of mouth. Maxillary 

 slender, concealed, and projecting about an eye-diameter beyond 

 posterior margin of eye. Mouth large, gape long. Jaws narrow and 

 furnished with rather large and more or less equal teeth, above along 

 edges at first triserial, or for a space about f length of snout, and then 

 biserial. Vomerine teeth biserial. Mandibular teeth at fh"st, or about 

 first fifth of length of mandible, triserial, and then biserial, though 

 becoming irregular posteriorly. Anterior nostril evidently in a short 

 fleshy tube near end of snout. Posterior nostril opening in a fold of 

 upper lip about opposite anterior margin of eye. Interorbital space 

 rather narrow and convexly elevated. 



Gill-opening small and a little low. 



Skin naked and apparently smooth, without any scales. A few pores 

 on snout and head above. Lateral line apparently continuous, superior 

 along side of trunlv. 



Vertical fins only developed, low, dorsal and anal continuous evi- 

 dently around caudal? (damaged), and former inserted about first f 

 in space between gill-opening and vent. 



Color of dried alcoholic dark uniform brown, lower surface, includ- 

 ing head, lighter. Under a lens upper surface seen covered entirely 

 with minute dusky dots. Iris brownish. Vertical fins dull brownish. 



Length 13f inches. 



Type, No. 33,121, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species differs from the last chiefly in the biserial vomerine teeth, 

 triserial teeth in the upper jaw, and more posterior insertion of the 

 dorsal. From M. breviceps it differs in its triserial upper teeth. Like 

 Murcenichthys nicholsce Waite, Rec. Austr. Mus., V, No. 3, 1904, p. 142, 

 PI. 17, fig. 1, from Lord Howe Island, this species has a sac under the 

 throat. It differs however in the more anterior insertion of the 

 dorsal. 



(Named for Dr. J. Douglass Ogilby, who has contributed nmch to 

 Australian ichthyology.) 



EXOCCETID^. 

 Exocoetns volitans Linnteus. 



One small example agreeing with my Hawaiian material. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADIOM'IIIA. 425 



ATHERINIDiE. 

 Atherina presbyteroides Kichardson. 



Head 4g; depth about 6J:?; D. IX-I, i, 10, i; A. I, i, 12, i; P. i, 10; 

 scales from gill-opcniiig to base of caudal (guessed according to pockets) 

 at 45?; about 9? scales in a vertical series up from origin of ventral; 

 width of head II in its length; pectoral 1^; snout 3| in head measured 

 from tip of upper jaw; eye 2|; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3|. 

 Belly apparently not swollen. Snout short, obtuse as seen from above. 

 ICye large, high, a trifle anterior. Mandible protruding and rami 

 elevated a little inside mouth. Maxillary reaching a trifle beyond 

 front margin of eye, without teeth. Teeth in narrow bands in jaws 

 and a short narrow band across vomer. Interorbital space flat. 

 Ridge of preopercle nearly forming a right angle. Scales large, cycloid, 

 narrowly exposed in longitudinal series and loosely adherent. Head 

 and base of caudal scaly, otherwise fins naked. Spinous dorsal 

 inserted nearer tip of snout than base of caudal or a short space behind 

 origin of ventral, and spines all rather slender, flexible and second 

 longest. Rayed dorsal inserted nearer origin of ventral than base of 

 caudal or a little behind origin of anal, and first rays longest. Raj'ed 

 anal similar to last. Pectoral reaches about 1^ to origin of spinous 

 dorsal. Ventral inserted a little nearer origin of pectoral than that of 

 anal. Vent about opposite base of last dorsal spine. Color in alcohol 

 faded brownish generally. A silvery band about 2 or 3 scales distant 

 from dorsal ridge of back from shoulder to base of caudal, rather 

 narrow after rayed dorsal and anal and bounded by a narrow leaden 

 line along its upper margin. Sides of head and U'is silvery. Fins 

 l)lain pale brown. Length about 2 inches (caudal damaged). 



This differs a little from the original account in the possession of an 

 additional anal ray and the depth of the l^ody being a little less than 

 the length of the head. 



MA.CRORHAMPHOSID^iE.1 

 Macrorhamphosus scolopax elevatus (Wuitt). 



A small example agrees with young Italian examples of M. scolopax. 

 Depth of body 2.V in space between posterior margin of eye and base of 

 caudal, and dorsal spine about 25 in latter. Eye about 3 in snout. 



LIMICULIXA subsen. nov. 

 Type Centriscus humerosus Richardson. 

 Differs from subgenus Macrorhamphosus Lacepede in the more 



' Fistularia pelimbu (Lacepede) from I'iji. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



posterior vertical fins, so that origin of spinous dorsal is close before 

 base of last dorsal ray, and in having the beak directed upwards. 



{Limicula, an old name for the godwit, with reference to the upturned 

 beak.) 



Macrorhamphosus liiimerosus (Ru'lianlson). 

 One example. 



SYNGNATHID^.^ 



CASTELNAUINA subgeii. nov. 

 Type Solenognathus spinosissimus Giinther. 



Differs from subgenus Solegnathus Swainson in having tlie rings 

 with small low spines along their edges. 



(Named for Count Francis de Castelnau, who studied the fishes of 

 Victoria.) 

 Solegnathiis spiuosissimus (<niuthcr). 



Two examples. 

 Phyllopteryx tseniopterus (Lacc^p^dc). 



Four examples from Portland, Victoria. 

 Phyllopteryx elongatus Castelnau. 



Two small examples appear to agree with (Jastelnau's account, and 

 though the sexes are undetermined the greatest depth of the body is 

 about half the length of the snout. The spines on the snout are 

 laterally superior. Cutaneous appendages and end of tail black. 

 Portland, Victoiia. 



MACLEAYINA subyeii. nov. 

 Type IIij)poratnpus bleeker! sp. nov. 



Differs from subgenus Hippocampus Rafinesque in the long dorsal 

 the rays being about 28 to 31, while in the latter they arc about 12 to 20. 



(Named for Hon. William Macleay, the distinguished Australian 

 zoologist.) 



Hippocampus bleekeri sp. nov. Fig. I. 



Head If in tnmk, measured to gill-opening; depth of trunk 2 in its 

 length; width of trunk 5^; trvmk 2| in tail; D. 28; A. 5; P. 15; rings 

 12 + 48; depth of head, at coronet, If in its length; width of head 

 2f ; snout 2; eye 8^; base of dorsal 1^; interorbital space IJ in eye. 



Body elongate, moderately deep, trunk comparatively short and 



* Syngnathus semistriatus (Kaup) and Stigmatophora nigra Kaup. Two speci- 

 mens representing these Australian species are listed from Fiji. 




1907, 



XATUIiAL SC;[K\CRS OF IMII LAUKLI'III A. 



427 



wdl compi-essotl. Tail very loiiij;, slender. (|ii:ulraiiu;ular and tapering 

 in a long point. 



Head moderately large, deep and compressed. Snout long, slender. 

 of more or less even depth throughout, and its great I'.st width about 



Yig. A. —Hippocampus hleekeri Fowlrr. (Tvpc.^ 



equal to greatest distal depth of muzzle. Eye small, high, a trifle 

 longer than deep, and its center falling slightly behind middle in 

 length of head. Mouth terminal, small, superior, and with thin jaws 

 sligi^tly protruding above and, lielow. Nostrils small, close to middle 




428 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



of front rim of orbit. Interorbital space narrow, forming an isosceles 

 triangle, angle formed about f an eye-diameter anterior to eye. 



Gill-opening about 2 in eye, vertical, and laterally superior on nape 

 near nuchal keel. 



Coronet high, its upper surface slightly concave, with 2 lateral 

 tubercles, and an elevated prominence springing from ridge in front. 

 Below latter, on each side of head, a round tubercle. A slight tren- 

 chant keel at f.'ont of interorbital space longitudinally, and each side 

 of triangle separated from this though gradually springing up into a 

 high slender bony process above posterior margin of eye. A blunt 

 postorbital tubercle near eye. Shoulder-girdle with 3 large round 

 tubercles. A few fine radiating striae on opercle. From each supra- 

 orbital process a rather long slender cutaneous filament, 1 from anterior 

 process of coronet and 1 from each posterior process. Body-rings 

 mostly with concave surfaces, without spines, though ridges rather 

 minutely asperous and forming slight tubercles on those on trunk 

 more or less, though none distinctly enlarged at intervals. On tail 

 ridges are more or less obsolete, except those forming longitudinal 

 edges. 



Fins rather small, with simple rays. Dorsal with long base, begin- 

 ning on posterior portion of ninth ring, and then extending on to third 

 caudal ring near its posterior margin. Anal small, short, in first ring 

 of tail. Pectoral with a moderately broad base, rays rather short. 

 Vent a little before anal. 



Color in alcohol brown, more or less uniform, or darker mottlings 

 within each square evidently result of preservation. Opercular 

 region with some round blackish spots. However upper surface of 

 tail is marked by about a dozen transverse saddles, most distinct on 

 dorsal surface. Dorsal rather dusky. 



Length, measured from tip of coronet to tip of extended tail, 9 inches. 



Type, No. 33,122, A. N. 8. P. Victoria. 



Also another example in poor preservation. It has about 28 dorsal 

 rays, and has a similar long tail and comparatively moderately deep 

 trunk. Still smaller examples agree, though 2 at present are whitish 

 with minute brownish dots, visible only under a lens. 



This species is related to Hippocampus abdominalis Lesson, but 

 differs at once in the longer snout and more contracted depth. Blocker 

 has roughly figured the present species as H. ahdominalis in Verh. 

 Kon. Ak. Wetensch., Amsterdam (Visch. Van Diemensl.), II, 1855 

 p. 28, PI., fig. 4, from Tasmania. 



(Named for Dr. Pieter van Bleeker, who studied the fishes of Tas- 

 mania.) 




1907. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLIMII A. 



42!) 



Hippocampus agnesae sp. uov. Fi;,'. 5. 



Head 2 iti trunk, measured to gill-opeuing; depth of trunk 1^ in its 

 length; width of trunk 3^; trunk about 2 in tail; D. 29; A. 3?; P. 17; 

 rings 12 + 17; depth of liead, at coronet. \'i in its length: width of 



Fig. 5. — Hippocampus agnesie Fowler. (Type.) 



head 2^; snout 2|; eye 5|; base of dorsal ly'g ; interorbital space 1^ in 

 eye. 



Body long, very deep, trunk very short and deeply compressed. 

 Abdomen in front forming a deep trenchant keel, undulate as seen in 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. , 



profile. Tail very long, compressed at first or with its width a trifle 

 less than its depth, then soon becoming quadrangular, and tapering 

 rather suddenly into a strong point. 



Head small, deep and compressed. Snout short, robust, its least 

 depth about midway in its length, and its greatest width about 1^ in 

 greatest distal depth of muzzle. Eye small, a trifle longer than deep, 

 and its center falling a trifle before middle in length of head. Mouth 

 moderately small, terminal, superior, and with rather thin jaws 

 slightly protruding above and below. Nostrils small, together, close 

 to middle of front rim of eye. Interorbital space narrow, concave, 

 forming an isosceles triangle, with angle about -| an eye-diameter 

 anterior to eye. 



Gill-opening about f of eye, vertical, and laterally superior on nape 

 near nuchal keel. 



Coronet moderately elevated, forming a trenchant Iceel, which is very 

 slightly convex in profile and with a slight level space posteriorly at 

 summit. Ridge of coronet on each side anteriorly with a slight tu- 

 bercle and posterior edge with a slight tubercle also at each side. Below 

 former, on each side of head, a large elevated tubercle. A trenchant 

 and slightly elevated keel at front of interorbital angle, and each side 

 of triangle separated from this though gradually springing up into a 

 high broad bony process above posterior margin of eye. A very 

 obsolete postorbital tubercle near eye. Shoulder-girdle with 3 large 

 rounded tubercles. Opercle with many fine radiating striae. Head 

 without any filaments. Body-rings mostly with concave surface.s, 

 without spines, though ridges slightly asperous and forming slight 

 tubercles on those on trunk more or less, though none distinctly 

 enlarged at intervals. On tail ridges become more or less obsolete , 

 especially towards tip, though those forming longitudinal edges distinct. 



Fins rather small, with simple rays. Dorsal with long base, begin- 

 ning on middle of tenth ring, though appearing in profile close to its 

 anterior edge, and then extending on to fourth caudal ring, towards its 

 posterior margin. Anal small, short, just before ridge of ihird ring on 

 tail. Pectoral with a broad base and rays all rather short. Vent a 

 little before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull brownish, head and ridges of rings all 

 pale. liOwer side of head with some few brownish spots, all a little 

 smaller than pupil. Fifth, sixth and seventh, tenth, eleventh and 

 twelfth of body-rings, and third and fourth, ninth and tenth, thir- 

 teenth and fourteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth, twentieth, twenty- 

 first and twenty-second, and most likely beyond on tail, all deeper 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIII.ADEr.lMIi A. 431 



brown Ihuu general color. Dorsal l)ro\vnish, spotted distinctly with 

 dusky, edge of fin apparently not darker than elsewhere. 



Length, measuretl from tip of snout to tip of extended tail, about 

 7? inches. 



Type, No. 83,12:], A. N. S. P. \ictoria. 



Also another exani{)le with same data, a trifle smaller but agreeing in 

 most all particulars. 



This species is related to Hippocampus abdominalis Lesson from New 

 Zealand, but differs in the much shorter snout and absence of tentacles. 



(Named Un- I\Irs. Agnes F. Kcnyon who collected the type.) 



APOGONID^. 



Mionorus ramsayi sp- I'ov. Fig. 6. 



Head 2^; depth 2^; D. VII-I, 7, i; A. 11, 7, i; P. i, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 26 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter ; 3 scales between 

 origin of spinous dorsal and lateral line; 3 scales between origin of 

 second dorsal and lateral line; / scales in a vertical series between 

 origin of spinous anal and lateral line; width of head 2.^ in its length; 

 depth of head at posterior margin of eye 1^; mandible If; third dorsal 

 spine 1^; spine of rayed dorsal 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^\ 

 second anal spine 2^^ ; first branched anal ray (damaged) If; pectoral 

 IJ; ventral 1\; ventral spine 2; snout 4^ in head measured from tip 

 of upper jaw; eye 3; maxillary If; interorbital space 3^. 



Body deep, well compressed, greatest depth at origin of spinous 

 dorsal, back elevated, edges of l^odj^ apparently roundetl, upper profile 

 anteriorly more inclined than lower, which is also a little more convex. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, rather deep, and its least depth about 

 1^ in its length. 



Head large, very deep, well compressed, slightly convergent below, 

 lower profile a little convex and a trifle more inclined than upper, which 

 is straight. Snout short, its length 2 in its width, and surface convex. 

 Eye large, circular, close to upper profile and falling about first third 

 in head. Mouth large, well inclined, and mandible slightly protruding 

 in front. Maxillary long, well inclined, slightly curved up, and reach- 

 ing beyond posterior margin of pupil slightly, though not quite to 

 posterior margin of eye. Distal expansion of maxillary nearly equals 

 diameter of pupil. Teeth in bands in jaws, small, short, simple antl 

 rather even. Small teeth on vomer and palatines. Nostrils together 

 on side of snout above. Interorbital space depressed or flattened. 

 Ridge and margin of preopercle slightly uneven, though not serrated 

 and former inclined a little posteriorly. Opercle without spine. 




432 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



Gill-opening extending fonvard opposite anterior margin of pupil. 

 Gill-rakers slender, pointed, about equal to diameter of pupil, and 

 2? -h 8? in number. Filaments rather short, apparently a little 

 shorter? than rakers. Isthmus forms a long narrow slender trenchant 

 keel. 



Scales'large, conspicuously ctenoid, and in series above lateral line 

 parallel^with _its_coiu'se, and below in horizontal series. Head scaly, 



Fig. 6. — Mionorus ramsuyi Fowler. (Type.) 



about 2 series on cheek (according to pockets), and scales on opercles 

 large. Between bases of ventrals a series of 2 large scales and its 

 length a trifle over a third of fin. Base of ventral scaly in axilla. A 

 few scales on base of caudal, and other fins all naked. Lateral line and 

 its course concurrent with dorsal profile. Tubes simple, and extend- 

 ing well over scales. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Origin of spinous dorsal about opposite posterior margin of opercle 

 or much nearer tip of snout than base of caudal, third spine longest, 

 first shortest, and last much shorter than second. Rayed dorsal with 

 its origin about midway between posterior margin of eye and base of 

 caudal, and anterior rays highest. Rayed anal similar, and depressed 

 fin reaching base of caudal. Second anal ray longer, and origin of 

 spinous anal a little nearer posterior margin of eye than base of caudal. 

 Caudal (damaged) probably rounded? Pectoral long, reaching a little 

 beyond origin of rayed anal or a trifle more than half way to base of 

 caudal, and upper median rays longest. Ventral inserted a trifle before 

 origin of pectoral and reaching a little beyond tip of depressed pectoral, 

 first ray longest. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color faded in alcohol largely dull brown, scales everywhere min- 

 utely and obscurely specked or dotted with slightly darker. Iris slaty. 

 Fins all pale brown. Spinous dorsal and ventrals blackish, especially 

 so distally. 



Length If inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 33,124, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species resembles Apogonichthys darnleyensis Alley ne and 

 ^Maclea}'', but differs in the absence of minute serra3 on the edges of the 

 preopercle, and coloration. From Apogonichthys adspersus Castelnau 

 it differs in fewer scales and more dorsal spines. From Apogonichthys 

 longicaiida De Vis, from Queensland, it differs in having the second 

 dorsal spine much longer than the first, proportions of head and 

 depth and coloration. 



(Named for Dr. E. Pierson Ramsay, the well-known Australian 

 natm'alist.) 



ENOPLOSID^. 



Enoplosus armatus (White). "Old Wife." 



One example from Sorrento, on the coast of Victoria. 



H^MULID^. 

 Terapon ouvieri (Bleekcr). 



One young. 



POMACENTRID^. 

 Tetradrachmum aruanum (Liiinccus). 



One example. 



LABRID^. 

 Lepidaplois richardsoni sp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 3^; depth 2^ ; D. XII, 11 ; A. Ill, 10, i; P. i, 16; V. I, 5; scales 

 29 




434 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



31 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more out on latter; 7 scales 

 obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral line; 6 scales 

 obliquely back from origin of rayed dorsal to lateral line; 12 scales in a 

 vertical series between origin of spinous anal and lateral line; width 

 of head about 2 in its length ; depth of head at posterior margin of eye 

 about If; snout 3; eye 3|; maxillary 2^; interorbital space 3^; first 

 dorsal spine 5i; twelfth dorsal spine 3; third dorsal ray about 2^; 

 third anal spine nearly 3; fourth anal ray 2f ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle If; caudal about If; pectoral (damaged) I5?; ventral 

 (damaged) about Ig? 



Body well compressed, comparatively short and deep, with greatest 



Fig. 7. — Lepidaplois richardsoni Fowler. (Type.) 



depth about midway in entire length of fish, edges convexly rounded, 

 and profiles similar. Predorsal region converging a little above, but 

 its edge not trenchant. Caudal peduncle deep, compressed, and its 

 length about ^ its least depth. 



Head moderately small, well compressed, and profiles each nearly 

 straight, or sloping down in front till about midway in depth of head, 

 so that muzzle is somewhat attenuated. Snout rather conical, its 

 width at base about 1^ in its length. Eye a trifle longer than deep, 

 high or close to upper profile, and its center falling a trifle anterior in 

 length of head. Mouth narrow, rather long, and jaws of abovit equal 

 length in front. Maxillary long, well concealed above or only its lower 




1*.><)7.1 XATlKAh SCIENCES OF I'll I l,A DKM'll I A. -^35 



portion iiitlun- nan-owiy exposed, and rcacliiii.u' a tiiflc beyond front 

 margin of eye. Teeth in jaws strong, imisorial, conic, and with 4 

 canines in front of each jaw sHghtly directed forwards. Of upper 

 canines all are of al)out uniform size, though of lower 2 median are a 

 little smaller than outer. Tips thin and little fleshy. Nostrils close 

 together near upper front margin of eye, and anterior a trifle larger. 

 Interorbital space moderately broad, depressed and but slightly ele- 

 vated convexly. Preorbital moderately broad, its least width about 2 

 in horizontal diameter of eye. Posterior margin of preopercle nearly 

 straight and very slightly inclined forward, its edge very finely ser- 

 rated . 



Gill-opening extending forward abo\it oi)posite middle of eye. 



Scales large, cycloid, broadly exposed, and Ijecoming smalUn- 

 towards edges of body, on head and bases of fins. On costal region 

 and middle of side of tnmk scales largest. Of head muzzle and inter- 

 orbital space naked. I'reorbital and infraorbital with a number of 

 short flutings of tubes radiating from lower margin of eye. Scales on 

 opercle a little larger than elsewhere on head, and those on cheek in 9 

 series. Along bases of vertical fins scales rather large, and but slightly 

 reduced on base of caudal. Lateral line continuous, rather high, con- 

 ciu-rent with dorsal profile, then dropping down on side of caudal 

 peduncle till about midway in depth of latter, and continued well out on 

 base of latter. Tubes slender or rather attenuated, persisting to 

 posterior edge of scale, and usually simple or only very slightly rami- 

 fied or arborescent. 



Origin of spinous dorsal nearer origin of rayed dorsal than tip of 

 snout, or a little behind that of pectoral, and anterior spines graduated 

 up till about midway in length of fin, after which they are more or less 

 subequal with last longest. Margin of spinous dorsal deeply notched 

 between tip of each spine, and membrane forming a slight cutaneous 

 flap projecting slightly after though close behind tip of each. Hayed 

 dorsal much shorter than spinous, insertion of fin about midway 

 between origin of spinous fin and base of caudal, radii all more or less 

 subequally high, except last iew which are shorter, and posterior edge 

 of fin rounded. Anal spines graduated up from first which is shortest, 

 origin of fin a little before that of soft dorsal, and margin notched with 

 slight flaps like those of spinous dorsal. Rayed anal similar to rayed 

 dorsal, and inserted very slightly anterior to origin of latter. Caudal 

 (damaged) apparently truncate, with corners pointed? Pectoral 

 (damaged) apparently romided, with upper rays longest. Origin of 

 ventral about opposite that of pectoral, with spine about ^ in length of 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



fin, and entire length of latter reaching about -| to origin of spinous 

 anal. Vent evidently close in front of latter. 



Color of dried skin faded very pale brown generally, back and upper 

 surface of head scarcely darker. On membrane of spinous dorsal 

 between first and second rays and extending apparently a little over 

 second spine a deep brown blotch a little smaller than eye. On 

 back below bases of posterior dorsal rays and upper surface of caudal 

 peduncle anteriorly, a blackish-brown blotch, very conspicuous, and 

 extending horizontally forward to lateral line till about opposite origin 

 of rayed dorsal. From anterior side of tip of snout to eye, then con- 

 tinued back from posterior margin of latter a little inferiorly along 

 upper side of head and fading out on front of back below lateral line, 

 a deep brown band, its width about equal to half a vertical eye-diam- 

 eter. From upper surface of tip of snout a band is given off on each 

 side, including nostrils where a lower ramification extends to eye, and 

 is continued from upper posterior margin of latter parallel with one 

 below, fading out on front of back. This band is also nearly as broad 

 as one below and equally distinct. Rest of upper surface of head with 

 several still narrower and slightly wavy bands or streaks of same color, 

 though a little indistinct. From end of maxillary a narrow deep 

 brown streak extends back over cheek below, passing over angle or 

 corner of preopercle towards lower base of pectoral. Fins otherwise 

 than noted all pale imiform brownish. Iris dusky. 



Length about 4^ inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 33,125, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species is closely related to Lepidaplois bilunidatus (Lacepede) 

 as figured under Cossyphus hilunulatus Bleeker, Atlas Ichth., I, 1862, p. 

 160, PI. 38, fig. 3, from Amboyna. It differs however from Bleeker's 

 fish in having about 5 longitudinal dark bands converging on the upper 

 half of the head, and a much narrower streak extending back from the 

 maxillary to the corner of the preopercle. There are also no posterior 

 canines such as Bleeker shows. From Lepidaplois alhotceniatus 

 (Valenciennes) as figured by Jordan and Evermann, Bidh U. S. Fish 

 Comm., XXIII, pt. 1, 1903 (1905), p. 278, PI. 24, it differs in having 

 broader bands above the inferior orbital one. 



(Named for Sir John Richardson, among the most accurate of the 

 early writers on Australian fishes.) 

 Coris dorsomacula sp. nov. Fig. 8. 



Head about 3f ; depth about 3f ; D. IX, 12; A. Ill, 12; P. i, 11; V. I, 

 5; scales 5 in lateral line to base of caudal and 4 more on latter (with 

 tubes) ; 4 scales obliquely back from origin of spinous dorsal to lateral 




lOOi 



NAITHAL SCIHXCES OK I'l 1 1 l.A Dl ;M'1IIA. 



437 



line; 4 scales (.l)li(|ucly hack from origin of rayal dorsal to lateral line; 

 17 scales in a vertical seiics between origin of spinous anal and lateral 

 line; 7 scales from middle of upper surface of caudal peduncle obliquely 

 back down to lateial line; 7 scales from luiddle of lower surface of 

 caudal peduncle ohruiui'ly forward to lateral line; width of head prob- 

 ably about 2 in its length; depth of head at posterior margin of eye 

 about l\; snout, measm-ed from tip of upper jaw, 3 ; eye 4 ; maxillary 4; 

 interorbital space about 4,^; fii-st dorsal si)ine 4J; ninth dorsal spine 2|; 

 fourth dorsal ray nearly 2; third anal spine aljout 4-^; first anal ray 

 about 2^; eleventh anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle about 

 1|; pectoral about 1 f ; ventral 1 j. 



Body well compressed, elongate, contour rather fusiform with 

 similarly convex profiles, greatest depth about midway in its length, 



Fig. S. — Coris dorsomacula Fowler. (Type.) 



and edges rather narrowly convex, though apparently~not trenchant. 

 Caudal peduncle rather deep, ^vell compressed, and its least depth 

 about equal to its length. 



Head moderately small, compressed, sides apparently flattened, and 

 upper profile a little more convexly inclined than lower. ^luzzle conic, 

 attenuated. Snout rather long, its surface convex, and its width equal 

 to its length, inclusive of upper jaw. ^louth horizontal, falling a little 

 below center in depth of head, and rather small. Teeth conic, mii- 

 serial, and becoming enlarged anteriorly in jaws, where they form 4 

 rather large canines both above and below, median 2 of each series a 

 little larger than others. Anteriorly teeth are all directed a little for- 

 wards, especially enlarged canines. Lips apparently ratiier tliin. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Nostrils superior on side of snout near upper anterior margin of eye, 

 and posterior much larger than anterior. Interorbital space depressed 

 or slightly flattened, only sides a little elevated. Width of preorbital 

 about f of eye. Posterior margin of preopcrcle inclined very slightly 



Gill-opening moderate. 



Scales rather large, thin, disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 

 lateral line, becoming slightly smaller towards edges of body, on breast, 

 predorsal region and base of caudal. Head, and all fins, except base 

 of caudal, naked. Lateral line superior, concurrent with the dorsal 

 profile of back till below posterior portion of rayed dorsal when it 

 descends till midway on side of caudal pedimcle, and then extending 

 straight to base of caudal. Tubes simple, large, and on anterior or 

 elevated ]iortion of lateral line all bent up, though all extending rather 

 close to margins of scales. On side of caudal peduncle tubes are 

 horizontal. On preorbital and limb of preopcrcle are some short 

 radiating flutings. A series of pores along infraorbital. 



Origin of spinous dorsal about midway lietwcen tip of upper jaw^ and 

 base of first dorsal ray or apparently a trifle before origin of pectoral, 

 spines slender, firm and graduated up from first A\hich is shortest, and 

 margin of fin apparently entire. Origin of rayed dorsal a little nearei' 

 posterior margin of eye than base of last dorsal ray, and anterior rays 

 a little shorter than last, and margin of fin a little convex. Origin oi 

 spinous anal about midway between tip of snout and base of caudal 

 or about opposite origin of pectoral, spines small, slender, fhm and 

 graduated from first to third, which latter is longest and margin of fin 

 entire. Rayed anal similar to rayed dorsal, except posterior ysljs 

 seem a little longer than anterior. Caudal (damaged) probably with 

 posterior margin convex? Pectoral moderate, upper rays longest. 

 Ventral inserted about opposite origin of pectoral, though apparently 

 not quite reaching vent. Ventral spine slender, about ^ length of fin. 

 Vent close in front of anal. 



Color when dried in alcohol faded largely dull brownish. A pale or 

 dull grayish streak extends from lower preorbital region up to lower 

 margin of eye, then back from latter towards shoulder, though giving 

 off a branch towards base of pectoral. From under surface of mandible 

 at its articulation extends back convexly over cheek, crossing pos- 

 terior margin of preopercle just above its angle, and finally decurves 

 over lower portion of opercle. A pale streak along lateral line for 

 greater part of its course superiorly, and paler or lighter anteriorly. 

 Trunk w'ith pale and darker vermiculations, especially contrasted on 




1907.] NATURAL SCIKN-ClvS OK IMI I LA DKLl'lII A. 439 



costal region. Uayed vertical (ins ail with traces of cUisky blotches 

 or spots, though now obscure. A jet-black l)lotch at bases of last 

 dorsal rays. Iris brownish. 



Length 4| inches (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 33,126, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



This species is -very closely related to Coris veniista Vaillant and 

 Sauvage from Honolulu, but differs in the jet-black blotch at the bases 

 of the last two dorsal rays. It approaches most closely the figure of 

 Hemicoris reinidius Jenkins, Bull. U. S. FisJi Coynm., XIX, 1899 

 (1900), p. 49, fig. 5, also from Honolulu, which is thouglit identical 

 with Coris venusta. 



{Dorsum, back; macula, spot; with reference to the black spot at the 

 bases of the last dorsal ra3's.) 



MONACANTHIDiE.^ 

 Braohaluteres trossulus (Riehardsou). 



One small example. 

 Osbeckia scripta (Gmelin). 



One young. 



DIODONTID^. 

 Diodon blochii (nstelnan. 



One example. 



OSTRACIIDJE/ 

 Aracana aurita (Shaw). 

 One large example. 



Aracana flavigastra (Gray). 



Four specimens agreeing with Richardson's figure. 

 Aracana ornata (Gray). 

 Two fine examples. 



TETRODONTID^.^ 

 Spheroides riohei (Freininvillc). 



One example with 3 dark or blackish saddles over the back. 

 Tetrodon nigropunctatus Schneider. 



One example of deep chocolate-brown color and fins all with pale 

 creamy tints. Spines over body of moderate length. 



^ Chcdodon lunula (Lac(5p6cle) from the Hawaiian Islands. 



* Ostracion concatenatus Blocli, Ostracion lentiginosnis Schneider and Ostracion 

 cornntus Linn;rus from "South Sea Islands." 

 ' Retnorn remora (Linnicus) from New Zealand. 




440 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Oct., 



TRIOHONOTIDJE. 



LESUEURINA gen. nov. 

 Tj'pe Lesueurella platycephalus sp. nov. 



Differs from Hemeroccvtes Valenciennes in the absence of the spine 

 at the anterior termination of each maxillary, the insertion of the 

 dorsal posterior to that of the anal, and the protruding mandible. 



(Named for Charles Alexandre Le Sueur, the first to study the fishes 

 in the collection of the Academy of Natm-al Sciences of Philadelphia.) 

 Lesueurina platycephala sp. nov. Fig. 9. 



Head 4^-; depth 7; D. 32; A. 37; P. 16; V. I, 5; 42 scales in lateral 

 line to base of caudal ; 5 scales obliquely back from origin of dorsal to 

 lateral line; 8 scales obliquely up behind from origin of anal to lateral 



Fig. 9. — Lesueurina platycephala Fo^Yler. (Type.) 



line ; width of head If in its length ; depth of head 2 ; twenty-ninth dorsal 

 ray about 3; thirty-third anal ray 2f; pectoral (damaged) about 1; 

 ventral (damaged) 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 3^; snout 4f in 

 head measured from tip of upper jaw; eye 6; maxillary 2f ; interorbital 

 space 5. 



Body elongate, well compressed, and becoming depressed anteriorly, 

 so that greatest width which is at posterior margin of preopercle is a 

 little more than greatest depth of body. Greatest depth of body 

 towards end of depressed pectoral, and trunk sloping back gradually 

 from this point to least depth of caudal pedimcle with similar straight 

 profiles. Predorsal region broadly convex. Caudal peduncle well 

 compressed, deep and short. 




1907.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEM'IItA. 441 



Head broad, depressed, iu lateral profile appearing attenuated, and 

 when viewetl above its greatest width at posterior margin of preopercle 

 or about last third of its length. Anterior profile as seen from above 

 convex, though rather narrowl}- constricted. Snout broad, short, its 

 anterior profile broadly convex as seen from above, and its length Ij 

 in its width at front margins of orbits. Eye small, superior, a little 

 longer than deep though rounded, and its center falling about first 

 fourth in space between tip of snout and posterior margin of opercle. 

 ^louth large, broad, and mandible projecting well beyond tip of upper 

 jaw in front. As seen below mandible is broadly convex around front 

 profile, or its width about 1^ in its length. Maxillary narrow, reaching 

 back till opposite posterior margin of eye, and its distal extremity 

 slender or forming a point below. Rather narrow bands of small 

 slender pointed teeth in jaws. Similar teeth in two widely separated 

 short narrow bands or series on each side of vomer in front, each of 

 these close behind band in jaw. On each side of roof of mouth also a 

 similar band or series to those on vomer, though a little further from 

 band around edge of jaw. Roof of mouth otherwise edentulous. 

 Tongue rather large, broad, depressed, rounded in front and apparently 

 little free. Nostrils (damaged) apparently similar, close together 

 directly in front of eye. Interorbital space narrow and flattened. 

 Top of head posterior to eyes broad, very slightly convex to nearly 

 flat, and from upper sides rather converging below to branchiostegal 

 region, though at this point, and across isthmus, rather broadly 

 depressed. Posterior margin of preopercle entire and convex. Pre- 

 orbital and infraorbitals rather roughly rugose. 



Gill-openings large and extending well forward. Gill-rakers not 

 now evident and filaments also probably dried. Isthmus rather nar- 

 rowly triangular, and with lower surface forming a short trenchant 

 keel. 



Scales large, distributed over most of head and all of trunk, and on 

 latter forming longitudinal series parallel with lateral line. Scales on 

 head rather small, and extending down on cheek and opercle. On 

 trunk scales on predorsal region and belly are smaller than elsewhere. 

 Scales all thin, broadly exposed, with entire margins and without 

 corrugations of any kind. No scales on fins (caudal damaged and 

 therefore not determined). Lateral line continuous, a little superior 

 at first or till after tip of pectoral, then midway along side of trunk to 

 middle of base of caudal, and composed of long and rather well exposed 

 tubes. 



Dorsal long, its insertion well behind that of anal or near first third 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



in entire length of fish, and first rays graduated up, after which they are 

 all more or less equal, or only last 1 or 2 graduated down a little shorter. 

 Anal inserted about last f in space between origins of A^entral and 

 dorsal. Caudal (damaged) probably slightly convex? Pectoral 

 (damaged) reaching a little beyond origin of dorsal, upper median 

 rays evidently longest, margin of fin rounded and bases of lowxr rays 

 extending well forward towards base of ventral. Ventral inserted 

 at last fourth in length of head, and reaching a trifle beyond origin of 

 anal. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol of dry example faded pale brownish more or less 

 generally. Back a trifle darker in tint than lower surface, and over 

 upper surface of head and predorsal region especially sprinkled w^ith 

 small deeper or darker brownish specks or dots. Lower surface of 

 head and belly at least immaculate. Fins all dull l^rownish. Iris 

 pale yellowish-brown. 



Length (without damaged caudal) about S^V inches. 



Type, No. 33,127, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



Only the above example. 



(Il/.a-n^j broad; x^(paXrj, head.) 



O ALLION YMID^ . 



Callionymus papilio G tint her. 



Two examples. 



URANOSOOPID^. 



KathetostOTTia laeve (Schneider). 



A head is most likely this species. 



BLENNIID^. 



Cristiceps australis Valenciennes. 

 One example. 



Blennius victoriae sp. nov. Fig. 10. 



Head 3^; depth about 4; D. XV, 16; A. ii, 19; P. 14; V. 2; width of 

 head If in its length ; depth of head 1^ ; snout nearly 3 ; eye 4 ; maxillary 

 2| ; interorbital space 1|; first dorsal spine 2 J; eighth dorsal ray 2-^-; 

 first anal ray about 4; eighteenth anal ray 2f ; least depth of caudal 

 peduncle 34-; caudal 1|; ninth pectoral ray li; length of ventral If. 



Body elongate, well compressed, so that towards edges of back or 

 dorsal, and lower surface of trunk posterior to vent or towards anals, 

 it is decidedly convergent. Anterior upper profile slightly elevated 

 •convexly, so that greatest depth falls at this point. Caudal peduncle 




1907.1 



NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PIIILADKLIMII A. 



443 



conipi-ossed, and its Icnjilh as measured to base of lust dorsal ray ^ 

 its least depth. 



Head lar<ie, dieej), or with <i;reate.st depth of entire body fulling at 

 orijiiin of ventral, and u])per profile at first very steeply inclined up from 

 tip of snout till above front of eye, and then slightly inclined to origin 

 of dorsal. Snout rather broadly convex over surface, so that its 

 Avidth is a little gi'eater than its length. Eye large, circular, close to 

 upper profile, and placed about first third in head. Mouth large, low, 

 with gape reaching about opposite middle of eye. Lips broad, upper 

 more so than lower. Teeth uniserial, slender, pointed, close-set, equal, 

 and each jaw, both above and below posteriorly, with an enlarged 

 canine slightly recurved posteriorly. .Maxillary more or less con- 



Fig. 10. — Blennius rlctoriiv Fowler. (Type.) 



cealed posteriorly. Trcorbital moderately broad, its least width 

 about 1\^ in eye. Nostrils small, close together near mitldle of front 

 rim of eye, and of about eciual size. Interorbital space narrow, its 

 width about 2] in eye, and very slightly concave. [Median line of 

 cranium slightly trenchant, or with a slight keel. 



Gill-opening large, lateral, and with membrane a> a fold over l)road 

 isthmus, this point about midway in length of head. 



Skin naked and apparently smooth. Lateral line of simple tubes, 

 superior at first or for about first 4 in length of trunk, then sloping 

 down till about lower g in depth of trunk at that point. About 20 

 tubes, each opening in a pore, in anterior curved jiortion of lateral 

 line, and about 9 tubes continued back in a straight series anteriorly. 



Origin of spinous dorsal nearly midway between origin of pectoral 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and posterior margin of eye, spines all more or less subequal with 

 flexible tips, and edge of fin emarginate. Origin of rayed dorsal a 

 little nearer that of spinous fin than l3ase of last dorsal ray, rays a little 

 higher than spines, edge entire, and fins continuo\is with spinous por- 

 tion. Anal preceded by 2 spines scarcely distinguishable from rays, 

 second a little longer than first, and origin of latter about opposite 

 origin of rayed dorsal. Anal rays rather shorter anteriorly or with 

 longest posteriorly, and margin of fin notched. Caudal with median 

 rays longest, and fin rounded. Pectoral broad, lower rays with free 

 tips and median rays longest, and reaching vent. \''entral jugular, 

 falling about opposite last | in length of head, with a long slender spine 

 flexible at tip reaching about If to origin of spinous anal. Ventral 

 rays large, long and thick. Vent close in front of anal. 



Color in alcohol rather dark brown generally, lower surface scarcely 

 paler. About 7 pairs of broad deep brown or dusky vertical bars 

 from dorsal profile, and somewhat reflected on bases of dorsals. Each 

 dark bar is really a double vertical series of several blackish spots, 

 and below lateral line they become obsolete. On side of trunk be- 

 tween dark vertical bars are very pale small yellowish to grayish spots, 

 these obscure and rather irregular. In pale areas on lower side of 

 abdomen several pairs of broad short dusky vertical bars, inter- 

 spaces noticeably pale. Above base of anal they are short with 

 whitish spots or blotches distributed usiially alternately to dark 

 dorsal markings. Fins all faded more or less pale brownish. Iris dull 

 slaty-brown, pupil brown. 



Length about 2{ inches. 



Type, No. 33,128, A. N. S. P. Victoria. 



Also 2 other examples with same data. They agree in most char- 

 acters and have the whitish lateral markings distinct. 



This species seems to be related to Blenjiius tasmaniaiius Richard- 

 son, but has more dorsal spines, and has no orbital or nasal tentacles. 

 B. tasmanianus is also different in color, as it is said to l^e brownish- 

 gra}'' dotted with brown and the head and vertical fins l^lackish. 



(Named for Victoria in southeastern Australia.) 



GOBIESOCID^. 

 Diplocrepis costatus Ogilby. 



One example. 




1007.] NATrUAL SCIEXCES OF PIIILADELPIHA. 445 



November 5. 

 Arthur Erwix Brown, D.Sc, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



One hundred and eight persons present. 



The death of Charles Mohr, INI.D., a member, October 31, 1907, was 

 announced. 



Notes on Minerals. — ^Ir. F. Lyxwood Garrison, exhibiting speci- 

 mens, remarked that Nos. 1 and 2 were copper ore, composed of 

 bornite, chalcopyrite in a hard, dense rock, determined microscopically 

 to be a tuff. These ores occur near the town of San Christobal, in the 

 island of. Santo Domingo, West Indies. There are at this place two 

 classes of copper deposits, one in veins or mineralized zones carrying 

 quartz and running in a definite direction through the country rock 

 (tuff). The other class is made up of segregations of chalcopyrite and 

 limonite in the tuff, and mostly located near the contact of the tuff 

 and the Cretaceous limestone. The two localities in which these 

 different ores occur are about a mile apart. A tlescription of these 

 deposits with a scientific dissertation thereon was published in the 

 Mining and Scientific Press of San Francisco, September 7, 1907, page 

 305. 



No. 3. ]\Iolybdenite with chalcocite and chalcopyrite, from the 

 Wallapi iMountains, Mojave Co., Arizona. The association of copper 

 ores with a relatively large proportion of molybdenite is exceedingly 

 rare. Molybdenite and copper minerals are sometimes found asso- 

 ciated together in gneiss, as for example at tlie Frankford quarries 

 near Philadelphia, but the combination of the two minerals in sufficient 

 amount to constitute an ore is, as far as he knew, unique. The country 

 rock containing these deposits is granite, probably not younger than 

 the Tertiary period. The district in which they occur is unexplored 

 in a geological sense, and was visited during July, 1907, by his assistant 

 engineer, Mr. William F. Ward. He hoped to have the opportunity 

 at a future time to examine this deposit and i)repare a more 

 elaliorate description of it. As a commercial matter it is highly 

 desiralDle to separate the molylxlenum from the copper minerals, but 

 as yet all attempts to do this have been unsuccessful. The molyb- 

 denum itself would bring a high price for use in making special steel, 

 since it is found to be more efficient for that purpose than tungsten, 

 chromimu or manganese. The jiractical commercial ]5roblem involved 

 in this proposition is to successfully separate the molybtlenum from the 

 copper minerals, as the presence of one would vitiate the other for use 

 in the arts. It is to be hoped that at some future time this can be 

 successfully accompUshc( 1 . 




443 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



No. 4. Zinc blende from Joplin, IMissouri, coated with greenockite 

 (cadmium sulphide) and marcasite (FeSj) and some small crystals of 

 calcite. These minerals are all associated with and deposited upon the 

 dark blue flint which is characteristic of the Joplin lead and zinc 

 deposits. This flint is of secondary origin and obtains its blue color 

 from association with the ])lack muck derived from the coal shales 

 that once overlaid the ore deposits, but now almost entirely removed 

 by erosion. The paragenesis of these minerals is well illustrated in 

 this specimen: first we have the large zinc blende (sphalerite) crystals, 

 upon them the marcasite and then the greenockite; finally the small, 

 almost microscopic cr3^stals of .calcite, one laid down upon the other 

 in orderly succession. There is another mineral deposited upon the 

 flint at the base of the large sphalerite crystals, but as yet he had been 

 unable to determine its name. It is fibrous, resembling asbestos or 

 some of the zeolites, and microscopic in size. 



Nos. 5 and 6. Two pseudomorphs, one of sphalerite and the other 

 calamine, after fossils. These minerals were found some seven or 

 eight years ago in a certain mine of the Joplin district. He believed 

 them to be quite rare, for he had never seen but one or two others of a 

 similar kind and they were from the same deposit. The particular 

 fossil which has been replaced by the zinc minerals is a coral, one 

 of the Zaphrentis. 



No. 7. An interesting fossil from the zinc deposits near Springfield, 

 Missouri. It is one of the Brachiopoda (a Spirifer). On its lower edge 

 is a beautiful nearly perfect dodecahedral crystal of sphalerite, the 

 association of the two constituting an interesting specimen. 



No. 8. An association of pink crystallized dolomite with barite 

 (BaS04) and sphalerite. Barite is rather rare in the Joplin district, 

 but very common in other parts of Missouri, notably in the lead district 

 of the southeast. 



Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication on the scientific results 

 of a visit to Saskatchewan made by him last summer. (No abstract.) 



The following was adopted : 



The Academy having heard with profound regret of the death of 

 Prof. Angelo Heilprin on the 17th of last July, desires to put on 

 record an expression of its sense of the loss which science has thereby, 

 sustained and of its appreciation of the work accomplished by him as a 

 student, administrator and explorer during the years of his connection 

 with the society from 1879 until within a few weeks of the termination 

 of his life. 



The Academy considers it a cause of congratulation that much of 

 the work accomplished by Prof. Heilprin during those years was 

 materially forwarded by the resources of the library and museum and 

 by the encouragement of his colleagues. It desires to express to his 

 relatives its sincere sympathy in the bereavement they have sustained. 




1007.1 NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PIlILADRLPIirA. 447 



November 10. 

 Ahthth Kinvix "Rhoavx, D.Sr., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



The death of Prof. Lucien ^I. Underwood, a Correspondent, Xoveni- 

 ber 16, 1907. was annomiced. 



Dr. Ben.tamix Sharp made a communication on Lobster Fisheries. 

 (Xo abstract.) 



J. W. Van Wijke, of Groningen; Otto zu Strassen, of Leipzig, and 

 R. Bowdler Sharpe. of London, were elected Correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




448 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Nov, 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF ANNELID FEOM WOODS HOLE. 



; BY J. PERCY MOORE, 

 Syllides verrilli n. sp. 



Form moderately slender, slightly flattened and wider in the middle 

 region. Size small, length 2.5-3 mm., maximum width .2-.3 mm. 



Prostomium large (fig. 1, a), depressed, slightly wider than long, 

 broadly elliptical or subquadrate with rounded corners, often slightly 

 emarginate anteriorly and nearly straight posteriorly. Eyes three 

 pairs, reddish brown; the first pair minute and situated well in advance 

 of the others just behind and external to the base of the lateral antennae; 

 the second and third pairs much larger, subequal, their diameter about 

 ^ the wddth of the prostomium, both on posterior half of prostomium ; 

 the middle pair widest apart and separated by about 5 times their 

 diameter, the posterior pair slightly behind and mediad of them near 

 the posterior margin of the prostomium. 



Fig. 1. — Syllides verrilli. a, dorsal view of head with protruded proboscis; b, 

 ventral view of prostomium and 3 segments, showing palps; c, pvgidium 

 with caudal cirri, all X S3. Fig. b from No. 2402, all others from No. 2401. 



Palpi (fig. 1, h) very small, mammilliform, situated on the ventral 

 face of the prostomium and directed downwards, invisible or nearly so 

 from above. They consist of swollen bases and short cirriform distal 

 ]iortions which alone ever appear in dorsal views. Tentacles (fig. 1, a) 

 all short, stoutly clavate; the middle one arising on a line joining the 

 anterior borders of the middle pair of eyes, their length equaling or 

 slightly exceeding the prostomial width, their ends bluntly rounded 

 and about twice as thick as the base. Lateral tentacles arise close to 

 anterior border of prostomium, their bases separated by a distance 




1007.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPlIlA. 



449 



nearly equal to A the width of the prostomium, their length slightly 

 less than tiie median tentacles and nearly or quite the prostoniial 

 width. When visible from above the ends of the palpi appear immedi- 

 ately beneath these. 



Peristomium obsolete or nearly so dorsally, almost completely 

 coalesced with the prostomium below and projecting but little beyond 

 it laterally. The mouth far forward, with prominent posterior lip. 

 Tentacular cirri (figs. 1, a and h) like the tentacles, from which they 

 differ only in being supported on very short cirrophores, the dorsal as 

 long as lateral tentacles, ventral slightly shorter. 



Metastomial region very slightly depressed, the segments increasing 

 in width slightly to the middle. The first seven, as far as the caudal 

 end of the gizzard, are short and crowded; succeeding ones are longer 

 and contain the gonads. Pygidium a small ring with rounded posterior 

 outline, scarcely distinguishable from the preceding segment. It 

 bears a short unjointed median ventral style and a pair of very long, 

 slender, unjointed cirri as long as the greatest width of the body 

 (fig. 1, c). 



Parapodia (fig. 2, a) strictly uniramal on the first seven metastomial 

 segments of sexually mature worms and on all segments of immature 

 worms. They are prominent, their length nearly equaling the width of 



Fig. 2. — SijUides verrilli. a, parapodium VIII from liohind, X 250; h, tip of 

 neuropodial aciculum, X 600; c, average neiiropodial compound seta from 

 X, X 600; d, profile and rear views of end of simple nouropodial seta, X 600. 

 All drawn from No. 2402. 



the body, slender, somewhat compressed at the base, the neuropodium 

 becoming conical distally and ending in a salient dorsal angle, from 

 which the distal border slopes ventrad, and which is supported by a 

 single stout aciculum. Anterior and posterior short lips embrace the 

 yo 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [XoV., 



bases of the setae, which are arranged in a broad vertical fan (fig. 2, a). 

 The first seven pairs of parapodia have no notopodia whatever, the 

 succeeding ones on sexually mature worms bear notopodial setigerous 

 sacs on the dorsal face of the base of the neuropodium, but there is no 

 distinct notopodial elevation or lobe. 



On the first three metastomial segments the notocirri are exactly 

 like the peristomial cirri in both form and size. Succeeding ones 

 become more slender and tapered, with the tip often abruptly more 

 slender, and increase in length until they ecjual the width of the seg- 

 ments. They also become distinctly jointed or even beaded (fig. 2, a). 

 In the middle of the body they are as long as the body diameter and 

 have 7-8 divisions. There is a great difference in this respect in 

 different specimens, some having the cirri much more strongly monili- 

 form than others. Sometimes there is a slight but distinct alterna- 

 tion of longer and shorter cirri, the former being always the more 

 strongly beaded; but these conditions are not constant. Posteriorly 

 the cirri become again shorter. Neurocirri (fig. 2, a) are coalesced with 

 the ventral border of the neuropodia to near the end, where the styles 

 become free and reach to the ends of the ventral setae. They are 

 sub-conical, usually with irregular constrictions and thickenings and 

 a more slender blunt terminal piece. 



Aciculum single, neuropodial only, rather stout, tapered, straight or 

 slightly curved, extending obliquely nearly into the dorso-lateral 

 angle of the neuropodium, beyond w^hich it projects and terminates in 

 a large, flattened and roughened knob (fig. 2, b). Neuropodial sette 

 of two kinds, both longer, than the parapodium and colorless. The 

 first (fig. 2, d) is a single and never more, moderately slender, simple 

 seta arising dorsal to the end of the aciculum of each parapodium, 

 curved and slightly thickened distally, finely toothed along the convex 

 side and slightly enlarged and bifid at the end. The second form is 

 compound (fig. 2, c). These form spreading vertical subacicular tufts 

 which on the more anterior parapodia contain 20 or more in several 

 ranks, the number becoming gradually reduced to 10 or 12 on middle 

 segments and 7 or 8 posteriorly. Shafts more slender than the simple 

 setffi, slightly curved, deeply unequally bifid distally, with a single 

 small accessory tooth on the side of the larger division. Appendages 

 delicate, slender, elongated, the longest anterior dorsal ones equalling 

 the diameter of the parapodium, but diminishing toward the ventral 

 side posteriorly until they are only ^ as long. Distally they are divided 

 into two slender, unequal, slightly curved teeth separated by a narrow 

 cleft. Apparently the margins are finely fringed, but this appearance 

 disappears posteriorly. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLI'IIIA. 451 



Sexually mature specimens bear, on all parapodia after \'lll, a tuft 

 of extremely delicate capillary seta as Ions ^"5 the width of the body 

 plus one parapodium. These do not arise from a special notopodial 

 tubercle, but from a notopodial setigerous area at the base of the dorsal 

 and posterior face of the neuropodium, and are not even supported by 

 a notopodial aciculum. 



AVlien retracted the proboscis occupies the first 3 segments and the 

 gizzard the next 5. Wlien extended the proboscis (fig. 1, a) is cylin- 

 drical or urn-shaped, reaching to or beyond the end of the cephalic 

 tentacles; the chitinous lining thick, brownish, with a smooth reflected 

 rim and no tooth. Just behind the rim is a circle of 10 rather promi- 

 nent, rounded, soft papillae. When the proboscis is protruded the very 

 large gizzard is drawn forward into somites II to VI inclusive. 



Body generally colorless when alive, the intestine grayish drab and 

 the eyes bright red. 



As noted above the sexual forms are simple epitokes, with swimn\iug 

 sette and gonads beginning at somite IX behind the stomach. 



Taken rather rarely at the surface at Woods Hole. Type No. 2402, 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. This is the species 

 referred to by Verrill as having been taken at Woods Hole along with 

 ,S. setosa {Rep. U. S. Fish Comm. for 1882, 1884, p. 664, footnote), 

 and is perhaps the S. longicirrata Oersted, of Webster and Bendict, 

 taken by them at Eastport, Me., but is not that species as described 

 by European authors. From typical species of the genus it differs in 

 the small size and ventral position of the palps. In this respect it 

 stands nearest to S. setosa, with which it should probably stand in a 

 separate subgenus. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.^ 



THE LIFE-AEEAS OF SOUTHERN NEW JERSEY. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



As pointed out by Verrill as early as 1866, the eastern United States- 

 is divisible into four main parallel faunal and floral belts or life-zones — 

 the Canadian, Alleghanian, Carolinian and Louisianian (or Aiistro- 

 riparian). While the general trend of these belts is east and west they 

 are greatly deflected by the Appalachian mountain chain, so that in 

 eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey they run more nearly northeast 

 and southwest. 



The Canadian zone is limited to the higher parts of the mountains 

 in Pennsylvania, often mere isolated islands, present in New Jersey 

 only in the northwestern corner of the State — if at all ; the Alleghanian 

 occupies the greater part of Pennsylvania and the northern third of 

 New Jersey, while the Carolinian is restricted to the southeastern 

 and southwestern corners of Pennsylvania and central and southern 

 New Jersey. 



This would represent roughly the relative position of the three life- 

 zones in these States based upon a study of the birds and mammals, 

 though the exact boundaries are hard to trace, owing in part to the 

 gradual passage of one fauna into the other, the overlapping of the 

 ranges of certain species and the constant changes that are being 

 effected by the destruction of the forests. 



These belts may be subdivided into minor areas dependent upon 

 peculiar climatic, topographic or geologic conditions. 



The study of the distribution of the various species of terrestrial 

 vertebrates is often of little aid in defining these minor life- areas, because 

 the conditions that produce them are not sufficiently potent to act as 

 barriers to the ranges of such free-moving forms. 



Plants, however, are far more susceptible to these influences and 

 their great wealth, both of species and individuals, offers an enormous 

 amount of data to any one engaged in studying the boundaries of 

 minor life- areas. 



Consequently in the study of the life-areas of southern New Jersey,, 

 in which I have been engaged for a number of years, I have paid especial 

 attention to plants, though I have of course taken advantage of any 

 other data that were availal^le. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



While I contemplate a much fullor and more exhaustive treatment 

 of the subject in the future, it seems desirable to present at once some 

 of the conclusions to which my studies have led. It would seem that 

 those portions of eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey that we have 

 been accustomed to refer to the Carolinian zone are divisible into 

 several areas running in a general northeast and southwest line parallel 

 to the mountains: 



I. A hilly or rolling country adjoining the Alleghanian on the west 

 and north and reaching east and south to the flat bottom of the lower 

 Delaware Valley and the old Raritan basin. 



II. The Delaware Valley -West Jersey region.' 



III. The Pine Barrens. 



1\'. The Atlantic Coast strip, including the higher parts of the 

 coast islands. 



V. The Maritime meadows and sea beach. 



It is with the three middle divisions that this paper has to deal — the 

 Pine Barrens, the Delaware \'alley and Coast Strip. 



The greater part of southern New Jersey is composed of what is 

 known as the Pine Barren region, covering according to current views 

 all the country east and south of a line from Long Branch to Bridgeton. 



The flora of the Pine Barrens is very uniform with relatively few 

 species, but generally so difTerent from that of the area to the west 

 that the passage from one to the other is easily noticeable even from a 

 moving railway train. Indeed I am not acquainted with any transi- 

 tion so striking elsewhere in the Middle States. The West Jersey 

 flora is identical with that of the low grounds on the Pennsylvania side 

 of the Delaware at Tinicum, Bristol, TuUytown, and doubtless also of 

 the lower part of Philadelphia when that was in a state of nature. 

 This same flora extends northeastward across New Jersey above the 

 Pine Barrens and south of the hilly region to the north. Indeed the 

 reseml)lance between the plant life at Tinicum, Delaware Co., Pa,, 

 and from Monmouth Junction to Princeton Junction, N. J., is remark- 

 able. 



The flora of the New Jersey Pine Barrens has long been familiar to 

 botanists, and the species of the south Atlantic coastal plain which 

 here find their northern limit have for the most part been listed for 



'Plate XII in Sali.sl)ury's Physical Geographij of New Jersey, 1S9S (Vol. IV. 

 Final Rep. of State Geologist), shows a remarkable correspondence witli my 

 floral areas. Tlie area of Pensauken submergence being almost equivalent to 

 mv Delaware Valley and Coast regions, while the elevated Beacon Hill region is 

 the typical Pine Barrens. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



many years, A feature of the Pine Barren flora, however, quite as 

 striking as the presence of these southern forms, and one upon which 

 Uttle stress has been laid, is the absence of very many widely distributed 

 species. 



In Dr. N. L. Britton's Catalogue of Plants jound in New Jersey many 

 common species are given as occurring "throughout the State" which 

 are entirely absent from the Pine Barrens. Another point of interest 

 is the fact that the Pine Barren flora does not cover the entire south- 

 eastern portion of the State. Along the whole seaboard back of the 

 salt meadows is a strip of varying width supporting a flora essentially 

 similar to that of West Jersey, and in the Cape May peninsula these 

 eastern and western strips join together almost to the exclusion of the 

 true Pine Barren flora, which occurs only in spots or islands south of 

 the Great Cedar Swamp. 



The southern portion of the Cape May peninsula, especially on the 

 Delaware Bay side, harbors qviite a number of plants that are 

 distinctly more southern than those of the Pine Barrens, and would 

 seem to constitute a tinge of the Austro-riparian zone, which normally 

 reaches its northern limit at the Capes of the Chesapeake. 



Some of these plants extend up into West Jersey and others up the 

 eastern coast strip a varying distance, but none of them into the Pine 

 Barrens. 



Opposed to these two southern elements we have three boreal 

 incursions into the southern New Jersey flora: First, certain bog 

 species of the Pine Barrens; second, a number of northern species 

 which occur in West Jersey, especially close to the edge of the Pine 

 Barrens, and, third, species which occur in the coastal strip and in the 

 wooded areas that are found here and there on the long narrow islands 

 that form the true sea beach of eastern New Jersey, frequently separ 

 ated by five or six miles of salt meadows or bays from the mainland. 



While not attempting in the present connection to correlate these 

 life-areas and boreal and austral incursions with conditions which 

 may have produced them, I mention below some of the more char- 

 acteristic species which distinguish them. 



I. The Pine Barrens. 



The characteristic trees of this region are in the dry portions Pinus 

 rigida, Quercus marylandica, Q. nana, Q. jninor, Q. prinus, Q. prinoides, 

 Sassafras sassafras. In moist spots Chanuvcyparis thyoides, Nyssa 

 sylvatica, Magnolia virginiana, Acer ruhrum, Betida populifolia. Char- 

 acteristic shrubs are Gaylussacia resinosa, G. frondosa, G dnmosa, 




1907.1 



\ATL-RAL SCIEXCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



455 



Vaccinium vascilhnis, V. cori/mbosu)}}, Ldicothoe raccmosa, Xolisyna 

 ligustrina, Kalmia latifolut, K. angustijolia, Azalea viscosa, Cldhra 

 alnifolia, Viburnum nudum and Comptonia peregrina. 



While the above are the most oonspiciuni'^ romponents of the flora, 

 they are ]\v no means confined to thi.s area. 



The followinfi list includes the peculiar Tine Barren species and 

 those which occur southward along the Atlantic coastal plane, Init 

 which find their northern limit in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. A 

 few of them do occur, it is true, on Long Island , in colonies which seem to 

 constitute northern pine barren islands, A few also occur in such 

 spots in West Jersey, but in the main these species are absent from 

 both West Jersey and the eastern coast strip, and in any case may be 

 regarded as typical Pine Barren species. 



Lycopodium carolinianum 

 Lycopodium alopecuroidcs 

 Calamovilfa brevipilis 

 Sporobolus iorreijanus 

 Fanicum sphagnicola 

 Carex walteriana 

 Cj/perus cylindricus 

 Rynchospora torreyana 

 Rynchospora gracillenta 

 Rynchospoj-a oligantha 

 Rynchospora pallida 

 Rynchospora knieskernil 

 Scleria torreyana 

 J uncus marginatus aristulatus 

 Juncus ccesariensis 

 Xyris fimbriata 

 Toficldia raccmosa 

 Abama americana 

 Xerophyllum aspodeloides 

 Smilax walteri 

 Smilax tamnifolia 

 Smilax laurifolia 

 Blephariglottis cristata 

 Lophiola americana 



Gyrotheca iinctoria 



Arenaria caroliniana 



Ascyrum stans 



Hypericum densiflorum 



Hypericum virgatum ovalifolium 



Polygala lutea 



Polygala brevifolia 



Meibomia stricta 



Ilea virginica 



Dendrium. buxi folium 



Pyxidanthera barbulata 



Sabbatia lanceolata 



Gentiana porphyria 



Lobelia canbyi 



Lacinaria graminijolia pilosa 



Eupatorium leucolcpis 



Eu patori u m res inos u m 



Sclerolepis uniflora 



Helianthus augustifolius 



Aster gracilis 



Aster nemoralis 



Solidago stricta 



Solidago fistulosd 



Solidago erecta 



llie northern element in the Pine Barren flora consists of the follow- 

 ing species, which find their southern low ground limits in this region 

 or a little to the soutii of it. Those market 1 with an asterisk are 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.. 



peculiarly Pine Barren species, so far as southern New Jersey is con- 

 cerned, not occurring in West Jersey or the coast strip. 

 Schiiwa pusilla* Blephariglottis blephoriglottis 



Sporoholus serotinus^ Coreimna conradii 



Car ex livida Utricularia clandestina 



Car ex folliculata Gaultheria procumbens 



Carex trisperma Chamxvdaphne calyculata 



Eriophorum polystachion Arctostaphylos uva-ursi 



Juncus pelocarpus Vaccinium atrococcum 



Juncus mUitaris Chrysopsis falcata 



Unifolium canadense 



Among birds we find three species which breed regularly in the Pine 

 Barrens but not in West Jersey, i.e., Dendroica vigorsii, D. discolor and 

 Compsothlypis americana usnea. A number of species common in 

 West Jersey are however absent from the Pines. Among mammals 

 we have two species peculiar to the Pine Barrens, Evotomys gapperi 

 rhoadsi and Synaptomys cooperi, both boreal incursions, and several 

 West Jersey species which are absent, i.e., Sciurus carolinensis leucotis 

 and Tamias striatus. 



II. Lower Delaware Valley Region and Coast Strip. 



West Jersey from Trenton southward, west and southwest of the 

 Pine Barrens, supports a far greater variety of trees than the Pine 

 Barrens. The most plentiful species, not found in the latter region, 

 are Pinus virginiana, Juniperus virginiana, Quercus phellos* Q. 

 digitata,* Q. platanoides* Q. coccinea, Castanea deniata, Fagus ameri- 

 cana, Betula nigra, Ulmus americana, Hicoria alba, H. glabra, H. minima, 

 Carpinns caroliniana, Liriodendron iulipifera, Platanus occidentalis, 

 Diospyros virginiana,"^ Cornus florida, Liquidambar styraciflua,* 

 Prunus serotina and Ilex opaca.* 



Those marked with an asterisk are not found on the hilly country 

 which begins just west of the Delaware, nor north of the low ground 

 between Trenton and the Raritan. 



In this West Jersey district too we meet with many plants common 

 to the Pine Barrens but which do not extend farther north or west. 

 Such as 



Woodwardia areolata Euphorbia ipecacuanoe 



Woodwardia virginica Gerardia purpurea 



Iris prismatica Eupatorium maculatum 



Lilium superbum Eupatorium album 



Poly gala nuttalli _ Eupatorium rotund i folium 



Rhexia mariana ^ ^ ^ Euthamia caroliniana, etc. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



457 



There are also a great nuniljer of plants common to tliis rejiion and the 

 iijiland and not found in the Pine liarreus. The difference in the flora 

 of the two regions, as already stated, is due quite as much to the absence 

 of these plants as to the presence of peculiar southern species. 



A few of the commoner members of this group are 



Spathyema foetida 

 Arisama triphyllum 

 Erythronhnn virgimcum 

 Anemone nemorosa 

 Ranunculus ahortivus 

 Ra7iunciilus fascicularis 

 Ranunculus recurvatus 

 Thalictrum polygamum 

 Caltha palustris 

 Viola cucullata 



Viola papilionacea 

 Viola sagittata 

 Asclepias pulchra 

 Lobelia cardinalis 

 Hieracium giganteum 

 Eupatorium purpureum 

 Eupatorium perfoliatum 

 Vernonia noveboracensis 

 Senecio aureus 



The narrow Atlantic coast strip has practically the same flora as the 

 lower Delaware Valley, though many of the trees are absent. 



The northern incursions into this flora are as follows, most of them 

 local and some of them rare : 



In West Jersey: 



Filix fragilis 

 Ackea alba 

 Polygonum careyi 

 Pyrola secunda 

 Pyrola chloraniha 



In Bogs: 

 Carex fusca 

 Menyanthes trifoliata 



On the Coast Strip: 

 Sevastana odorata 

 Triglochin maritima 

 Sabbatia angularis 



On the Coast Islands: 

 Geranium robertianum 



Vaccinium pennsylvanicum 

 Rhododendron maximum 

 Ilicioides mucronata 

 Pedicularis lanceolata 



Scheuchzeria palustris 



Limosella tenui folia 

 Trientalis americana 

 Lacinaria spicata 



Salmonia stellata 



Among southern species which reach the lower Cape May peninsula 

 and push northward either in West Jersey or along the coast strip may 




45S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV , 



be mentioned the following. Most of these do not range north of New 

 Jersey; those marked with an asterisk not north of southern Cape 

 May county. None of them are Pine Barren species. 



Chcetochloa tnagna* Quercus michauxii 



Brachiaria digitarioides^ Blephariglottis peramoena 



Paspalum glnbratum* Juncus setaceus 



Sacciolepis gibba* Kosteletzkya virginica 



Sporobolus asper Silene pennsijlvanica 



Aristida lonosa Hypericum gymnanthum 



Erianthus compactus Hypericum adpressum 



Andropogon argyrceus Euonymus americanus 



Eleocharis ochreata* Gratiola pilosa* 



Eleocharis melanocarpa Tecoma radicans* 

 Rynchospora corniculata macros- Diodia virginiana* 



tachya Lobelia puberula 



Rynchospora rariflora*^ Eupatorium coelestinum* 



Gymnandeniopsis nivca* WilloughbcBya scandens 



Costanea piimila Senecio tomentosa^ 



The fact that we have in the West Jersey area a number of birds 

 and mammals not found in the Pine Barrens has already been 

 alluded to. We have also certain species which correspond to the 

 northern and southern elements just spoken of in treating of the 

 plants. Zamelodia ludoviciana and Empidonax minimus both breed 

 occasionally as far south as Camden county, while in Cape May and 

 southwestern Burlington counties we have the only recorded nesting 

 of Polioptila ccerulea in the State. In lower Cape May we also have 

 record of the occurrence of Mimus polyglottos, Centurus carolinensis 

 and Lanius ludovicianus , while Quiscalus major has occurred once on 

 the coast strip. 



The lower part of West Jersey too marks the northern limit of 

 Oryzomys palustris. 



While the land and fiuviatile mollusks of such a sandy country as 

 southern New Jersey are necessarily not abundant, Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 tells me that such species as occur on the east coast strip are depauper- 

 ate forms of northern types, while in the southwestern part of Cape 

 May county he has found Succinea campestris vagans and Bifidaria 

 hordeacclla, southern forms not recorded from elsewhere in New Jersey. 

 The former is a race of Succinea campestris of Georgia and Florida, while 

 the latter is not known elsewhere north of the same States. 



Among insects, distributions have not, as a rule, been sufficiently 




1907. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



well worked out to warrant their use in (lefininfj minor life-areas. In 

 the Orthoptera, however, Mr. J. A. G, Relin tells me that certain 

 species seem to conform quite well to the regions I have defined above. 

 OrphuIcUa oUvocca, Clinoccphalus clcgans and Chorthippus curiipennis 

 are found along the coast strip but not in the Tine Barreas, while 

 Chloealtis conspcrsa, Paroxya scudderi, Melanoplus imptidicus, and .1/. 

 stonci are restricted to the latter region. 



In West Jersey there are a number of species common to the hilly 

 region to the north and west and unknown in the Pine Barrens, just 

 such a condition as we find among the plants. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC 



December 3. 



Arthur Erwin Brown, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Mr. WilHam S. Vaiix reported his observations made during the past 

 summer on the glaciers of British Columbia. 



December 17. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : # 




5^07. 1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



NOTES ON LANCELETS AND LAMPREYS. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The species listed below are all contained in the collection of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



BRANCHIOSTOMID^. 

 Branchiostoma lanceolatum (Pallas). 



Mediterranean (Dr. H. E. Evarts); Bay of Naples (Dr. Benjamin 

 Sharp, Dr. H. C. Chapman) ; Italy (Bonaparte Coll., No. ^). 



Branchiostoma caribaeum Sundevall. 



Off Vieques, Porto Rico (U. S. F. C). 

 Branchiostoma californiensis Andrews. 



Los Angeles Bay, Cal. (W. N. Lockington). 



Epigonichthys leucayanum (Andrews). 



Entrance to Castle Harbor, Bermuda Islands (A. G. Gulick). 



EPT ATRBTIDuiE . 



Polistotrema StOUtii (Lockington). 



Pacific Groove on Monterey Bay, Cal. (Dr. Harold Heath). 



Gill-openings 11 on both sides in 2 examples, 12 on both sides in 3, 

 and 12 on the right side and 3 on the left also in 3. 

 Polistotrema polytrema (Girard). 



Chili (Dr. H. C. Chapman). 

 Eptatretus burgeri (Girard). 



Off Misaki, Japan (D. S. Jordan and J. 0. Snyder). 



MYXINID^. 

 Myxine glutinosa Linnseus. 



Lat. 39° 55' 31" N., Long. 70° 39' N., and Bar Harbor, Maine (Dr. 

 H. C. Chapman). 



PETROMYZONID^. 



OCEANOMYZON gen. nov. 



Type OecdHomyzon wilsoni sp. nov. 



Supraoral lamina not especially contracted, its 2 converging teeth 

 well separated and distinct. Infraoral lamina crescentiform and 




462 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



spout-like at middle, with denticles obsolete. Innermost teeth of disk, 

 or those along each side of orifice, bicuspid, large, and similar to those 

 on supraoral lamina. 



Differs from both Bathymyzon and Petromyzon in the above com- 

 bination of characters. One species in the open Atlantic, possibly- 

 occurring at some depth. 



('iixea^os'^ ocean; //'^w, to suck.) 



Oceanomyzon wilsoni sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head to first gill-opening 6f ; depth 13|^; width of head at first gill- 

 opening about 2 in its length; snout 1^; width of disk ly"^; inter- 

 orbital space 2^; height of first dorsal 6^; height of second dorsal 3; 





Fig. 1. — Oceanomyzon wilsoni Fowler. (Type.) 



eye 3 in interorbital space; tail measured from vent to end of caudal 

 fin (damaged) about 3 in rest of body. 



Body well compressed, rather slender, flexible, tapering backwards 

 from pharynx, with greatest depth a little after last gill-opening. A 

 median broad obsolete ridge down back from about opposite first gill- 

 opening to first dorsal. Lower surface of body rounded convexly. 

 About 72 muscular bands between last gill-opening and vent. Tail 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4G3 



from vent conii)rcsse(l, tapering but little and ending in an abru[)t tip 

 (damaged). 



Head rather large, broad, and rather depressed more or less both 

 above and below. Snout broad, its surface convex, and longer than 

 broad by about an eye-diameter. Eye rather large, lateral, without 

 lids, or covered by skin of head, a little longer than deep, and placed in 

 last fourth of head measured to first gill-opening. Mouth large, 

 rounded to rather an ellipsoid shape, and its width thus about 1^ in 

 its length. Disk thus formed furnished with a fringe of short fleshy 

 tentacles, posterior of which are much longest and edges of each all 

 armed with short fringes. Longest of these posterior flaps about half 

 of horizontal orbital diameter. Surface of disk studded with rather 

 numerous teeth, much smaller and more or less imbedded in outer 

 series. Anterior and on inner sides teeth large and all more or less 

 arranged in concentric radiating series. Inner enlarged teeth on 

 each side as 4 bicuspids and a single antero-median biscuspid. Cusps 

 of all these about similarly developed. Posterior inner dental crescent 

 with its margin converging to a small narrow median trenchant edge, 

 where there are 7 small blunt obsolete closely crowded cusp-like 

 points, so as to appear spout-like. Anterior lingual tooth with a 

 deep median groove, terminating in an incurved point and with 7 

 scrratures right and 6 left. Posterior lingual teeth consisting of two 

 L J-shaped patches of teeth with about a dozen serratures in each. 

 Nostril with a slightly elevated cutaneous rim and placed midway in 

 intcrorbital space opposite front rim of eye. Interorbital space 

 broadly convex. 



Gill-openings 7 on each side of pharynx a trifle inferiorly, and anterior 

 nearer posterior than tip of snout by about half length of latter. Gill- 

 openings becoming a trifle larger as they progress posteriorly and 

 about equalh' far apart. 



Skin smooth, rather soft and thin. No evident mucous pores. 



Origin of first dorsal about midway between tip of caudal (evidently 

 damaged) and first gill-opening, reaching its greatest height about 

 first I in its length and margin rounded. Second dorsal distinct from 

 first, not connected basally, and inserted a trifle before last fourth in 

 entire length of body, and its greatest height apparently a little after 

 vent. Caudal apparently damaged and then healed. After vent a 

 low thin median cutaneous ridge extending back and apparently 

 joining lower caudal lobe. Vent with a small papilla. 



Color in alcohol plumbeous-brown above, more or less uniform, and 

 shading off on sides to paler or grayish-white, and lower surface all 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



more or less entirely whitish with slight leaden or grayish tints. Lower 

 surface of tail only narrowly pale. Dorsals and caudal pale brownish. 

 Disk pale brownish and teeth all dark or wood-brown. Iris pale slaty. 



Length 12|- inches. 



Type No. 375, A. N. S. P. Atlantic Ocean. Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



This is the only example I have seen. It is apparently related to 

 Petromijzon (Bathymyzon) bairdii Gill, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, p. 

 254, but differs, according to the account by Goode and Bean, Ocean. 

 Ichth., 1895, p. 4, in several characters. In B. bairdii the tips of the 

 two supraoral teeth are said to be barely perceptible, while in the 

 present species they are equally as well developed as either of the ad- 

 jacent bicuspids. In B. bairdii the eye is said to equal a fourth of the 

 interorbital space, while in the present species it is about a third. These 

 differences hardly seem due to age, as the type of B. bairdii and the 

 present species differ in length by only 1^ inches. Oceanomyzon will 

 then appear as an annectant form between the true lampreys, or 

 Petromyzon, and the bassalian Bathymyzon. 



(Named for Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, for many years a generous patron 

 of the Academy. Among his numerous gifts may be found much 

 valuable material in the collections of fishes.) 



Petromyzon marinus Linnaeus. 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.); Boston, Mass. (J. H. Slack); Fannel's 

 Branch near Chestertown in Kent Co. (E. G. Vanatta), and Bacon 

 Hill in Cecil Co., Md. (H. W. Fowler). 



Petromyzbn marinus unicolor (De Kay). 



Cayuga Lake Inlet, N. Y. (S. E. Meek). 



Ichthyomyzon concolor (Kirtland). 



Two examples without data, and one from the Clinch River in Ten- 

 nessee (E. D. Cope). 



Ichthyomyzon castaneus Girard. 



Kiskiminitas River, Pa. (E. D. Cope). I wrongly identified this 

 example in Am. Nat., 1907, p. 6, as Lampetra irilderi. The species is 

 therefore now known for the first time in Pennsylvania. 

 Entosphenus tridentatus (Richardson). 



Willamette Valley, Ore. (0. B. Johnson). 

 Lampetra fluviatilis (Linnaeus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.); Europe (Smiths. Inst.). 

 Lampetra cibaria (Girard). 



San Francisco Market, Cal. (W. N. Lockington). 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 



465 



Lampetra aepytera (Abbott). Fig. 2. 



Animocoetes aepi/tern Ablxitt, Pror. .-Vend. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 327. 

 Xo. Snl, typo. Ol.io Rivt-r. Dr. Ilildrctli. 



Width of head al)out 2^^ in its lcn,<:;tli, measured to first gill-opening; 

 witlth of disk 2|; intcrorbital spaec o; eye al)out 2 in interorl)ital space. 

 Bt)dy Avell compressed and edges rather convexly rounded, without 

 distinct keels niedianly. Muscular bands along side of body distinct, 

 of about even width, and a])out 53 between last gill-opening and vent. 

 Tail well compressed. Head sul)cylindrical, soon becoming com- 

 pressed at pharynx. Snout broadly convex, its width about IJ in its 

 length. i\Iouth moderately large, disk-like, rounded and circular. 

 Edges of disk thus formed rather thick, fleshy, and with a fringe of 



;:Kari;iiliii;iMiii i; feK;i;c^.;;, 



Fig. 2. — Lampetra oepytera (Abbott). (Type of Ammocoetes cepytera Abbott.) 



short and rather inconspicuous fleshy flai)S. Teeth few, strong and 

 rather large. If outer teeth occur over surface of disk they are minute, 

 imbedded more or less, or deciduous, as no traces seem evident now-. 

 Inner teeth well developed on each side as 3 large cusps, and medianly 

 above apparently as 2 smaller cusps. Posteriorly teeth form a hard 

 crescentic keel, apparently entire. Tongue apparently toothless, with 

 a median groove separating fleshy margin on either side. Inter- 

 orbital space rather narrowly convex. Skin thin, firm, not very 

 tough, and without evident mucous pores. Color faded in alcohol 

 uniform dull brown above and becoming a little paler on under surface. 

 Fins pale brownish, much paler than belly. Eye dull slaty. Length 

 4| inches. Type of Ammococtcs ccpytcra Abbott. 



In Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 328, following the previous 

 31 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY. OF [DeC, 



identifications of authors, I was led to erroneously identify this speci- 

 men with Ammoccetes concolor Kirtland, a species with which it 

 most certainly is not to be identified. It is in fact entirely identical 

 with Lampetra wilderi Gage, in Jordan and Evermann, Bull. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., No, 47, I, 1896, p. 13. This will necessitate the suppression of 

 the latter name and thus the small black lamprej^ now becomes 

 Lampetra cepytera. 



Grosse Isle and Ann Arbor, Mich. (E. D, Cope); Cedar Rapids, la. 

 (S. E. Meek) and Brook River (Charles Aldrichs), la. 

 Lampetra branchiale (Linnaeus). 



Italy (Bonaparte Coll.). 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



STUDIES IN NORTH AMERICAN FULG0RID5;. 

 BY E. P. VAN DUZEE. 



The following studies on the Fulgoridce refer solely to material from 

 the United States and Canada now in my collection or which has recently 

 passed through my hands. The most practical and useful work in 

 this family has been done by Dr. Stal, and even now we must go back 

 to the synoptical tables published in 1866 in \^olume IV of the Hcmip- 

 tera Africana for the determination of new or difficult generic forms. 

 The key to the subfamilies given below is intended only for the forms 

 known to inhabit the United States and Canada, and would be of little 

 use with the complicated Fulgorid faunas of the tropics, especially of 

 the Old World. Mr. G. W. Kirkaldy has recently^ given us a new 

 arrangement of these subfamilies that in some respects is probably 

 more in accord with the biological relationship of these closely related 

 groups, but my knowledge of the tropical Fulgoridse is much too 

 limited for me to attempt an adjustment of our genera to the groups 

 there laid down; so for the present I prefer to follow Stal's classifica- 

 tion as closely as possible. 



This paper is not at all monographic in its character, as I touch only 

 on genera and groups I have had occasion to study in working out 

 certain undetermined material in my collection. I have added a few 

 synoptical tables in the hope that they may assist students in locating 

 some of the new or little known forms. 



Key to the Subfamilies of the Fulgorid.e. 



Anal area of the wings reticulated, sides of the clypeus carinate. 



1,FULG0RIDA. 



Anal area of the wings rarely reticulated, clypeus in this case without 



lateral carinaj, 1. 



1. Posterior tibite armed with a movable spur, 11, DELPHACIDA. 

 — . Posterior tibiaj without a movable spur, 2. 



2. Clavus granulated; costa dilated, the costal membrane trans- 



versely venose, 8, FLATIDA, 



— . Clavus rarely granulated; costa in this case not dilated, . . 3. 



' Hawaiian Sugar Planters' Assoc, Ent. Bui. Xo. Ill, p. 91, 1907. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



3. Veins of the clavus not attaining the apex, but united with the- 



commissural margin before the apex, 4, 



— . Veins of the clavus either continued to the apex or united with the 

 claval suture before the apex, 5. 



4. Apex of the front without an ocellus; elytra reticulated toward 



their apex, 2, DICTYOPHARIDA. 



— . Apex of the front usually with a third ocellus ; elytra not reticulated 

 apicahy, ' . . 5, CIXIIDA. 



5. Elytra ample, held vertical with the costal margin meeting below 



the abdomen, closely reticulated over the whole surface; the 

 costal and apical margins without transverse veins; front con- 

 tinued over on to the superior aspect of the head without a 



transverse carina, 7, ACANALONIIDA. 



— . Elytra when broad held more horizontal, not meeting below 

 nor closely reticulated over the whole surface, and the front 

 usually distinguished from the vertex by a transverse carina at 

 the apex of the head, 6. 



Head broad, with the eyes nearly or quite as wide as the mesono- 

 tum ; pronotum without cariniie or with a median carina only, 7. 



Head usually much narrower than the mesonotum ; if as wide the 

 pronotum emarginate behind and tricarinate, .... 8. 



Pronotum truncated behind or at most with a shallow rounded 

 sinus, 6, ISSIDA. 



Pronotum angulately emarginate behind, . 9, RICANIIDA. 



Elytra distinctly ampliated within and overlapping beyond the 

 apex of the clavus, 4, ACHILIDA. 



Elytra not ampliated within nor overlapping at apex, ... 9. 



Elytral membrane strongly differentiated from the corium with 

 numerous simple longitudinal nervures, 3, TROPIDUCHIDA. 

 — . Elytral venation simple, without a distinct closely veined mem- 

 brane; pronotum very short, deeply angularly emarginate 

 behind, 10, DERBIDA. 



Subfamily FULGORIDA Stal. 



This subfamily is largely tropical in its distribution; but four genera 

 and five species have thus far been reported from our territory. Doubt- 

 less, however, many of the subtropical forms inhabiting Mexico and the 

 West Indies extend their range across our southern border and must 

 eventually be included in our faunal lists. 



Subfamily DICTYOPHARIDA Stal. 



This subfamily is better represented in our fauna than the preceding; 

 the large genus Scolops being almost precinctive. Our genera may be 

 distinguished as follows : 



Elytra as long as the abdomen or longer, 1. 



Elytra much abbreviated, not attaining the middle of the abdomen, 5. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



1. \'ertcx produced ami angulated before or frequently forming a 



long ceplialic process, 2. 



— . \'ert6X transverse, anterior edge feebly arcuated ; elytra in the 

 short-winged form scarcely exceeding the abdomen, convex; 

 anterior femora foliaceous, .... Piiylloscelis Germ. 



2. \'ertex triangularly produced, rarely more than twice as long as 



its width between the eyes, with a distinct median carina in 

 our species; pronotum deeply and acutely emarginate behind; 

 color usually green with long greenish-hyaline elytra, 



DiCTYOPHARA Germ. 



— . Vertex produced in a linear cephalic process, without a distinct 



median carina; elytra shorter, opaque; pronotum truncated or 



broadly, obtusely emarginate behind, 3. 



3. Cephalic process abruptly contracted before the eyes; pronotum 



liroadly, obtusely emarginate behind, 4. 



— . Cephalic process not narrowed before the eyes, its sides corrugated ; 

 pronotum truncated behind, .... Scolopsella Ball. 



4. Rather stout insects of some shade of pale green or testaceous, 



becoming fuscous brown in certain species, but not black, 



ScoLOPS Schaum. 



— . Slender black insects with smoky translucent elytra; inhabit 



California, Belonocharis Uhler. 



5. ^'ertex flat, triangularly produced, as long as broad and attaining 



the apex of the head ; pronotum concavely arcuated behind , 



Orgerius Still. 

 — . ^'ertex short, transverse, occupying hardly one-half of the superior 

 aspect of the head ; pronotum very obtusely angularly emargin- 

 ate behind, Loxophora n. gen. 



Genua DICTYOPHAEA Germ. 



Didyophara curviceps Stal I have not yet seen. The three species 

 known to me may be separated as follows : 



Vertex fully twice as long as its basal width, median carina extending a 

 little more than halfway to its apex, the three frontal carinse 

 almost parallel throughout their length, . microrhina Walk. 



— . \'ertex scarcely longer than its width at base, its median carina 

 almost attaining the apex ; frontal carinae more widely separated 



above, forming a spatulate compartment, 2. 



2. I/ateral carinse of the front meeting in an acute angle on its base, 

 concolorous at that point; plates of the female long and slender, 

 ligulate and curved upward, attaining the apex of the pygofers, 



lingula Van ]3. 



— . Lateral carinse of the front meeting at the base in an obtuse angle, 

 together with the marginal carinse lined with black around the 

 apex of the head ; plates of the female short, oblique, and oblong 

 in form, not attaining the apex of the pygofers, . florens Stal. 



Diotyophara miororhina Walker. 



In this species the vertex is much longer than in the two other 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



species known to me. It is a little more than twice as long as its basal 

 width, or judging only by the eye it appears much longer; the three 

 frontal carinse are straight and parallel throughout their length, con- 

 verging to a point on the subacute base. The plates of the female are 

 ferruginous, ligulate, but not quite as slender as in lingula, and scarcely 

 attain the apex of the green superior pieces. The elytra are the 

 same pale greenish hyaline with green nervures that we find in lingula, 

 but in some examples they show a distinct brownish tinge toward 

 their apex; the stigma has three or four areoles. Length 13-14 mm. 



I took this species at Woodbine, New Jersey, in August, 1902, and on 

 Staten Island in August, 1904. 

 Dictyophara florens St&l. 



Vertex a little longer than its basal width ; median carina precurrent, 

 on either side of this is a short lateral carina which is scarcely indicated 

 in Mexican specimens. Front broad, the margins strongly reflexed 

 and a little expanded before the eyes and next the clypeus; three 

 discal carinas very prominent, the lateral almost attaining the clypeal 

 margin, diverging toward the base where they roundedly converge and 

 meet in an obtuse angle, and together with the marginal carinse are 

 marked with a black line. Carime of the pronotum and mesonotum 

 distinct, the latter converging and meeting before attaining the pro- 

 notal margin. Valve of the female short, transverse, oblique within; 

 plates oblong, rounded at apex, oblique, not attaining the apex of the 

 pygofers. Sides of the genital segment of the male slightly oblique 

 at apex, the dorsal angle very obtusely rounded. 



I took a good series of this species from a coarse grass at Effingham, 

 Kansas, in July, 1900. They agree in every respect with Mexican 

 material in my collection, except that the base of the vertex is dis- 

 tinctly tricarinate. This would throw the species into another section 

 in Stal's synopsis {Rio Jan. Hemi'p., p. 64), but they certainly are not 

 distinct. 

 Diotyopliara lingula n. sp. 



^Closely allied to florens. Pale green, lighter beneath and tinged with 

 rufous on the tibiae. Vertex a little more produced, carinse distinct. 

 Front somewhat broader than in florens, its sides almost rectilinear, 

 the three discal carinas prominent, slightly diverging to a point before 

 the anterior angle of the eyes, then deflected and running straight to 

 the apex w^here they unite in an acute angle ; apically the}- run straight 

 to the clj^peal suture. Rostrum longer than in florens, distinctly sur- 

 passing the posterior trochanters. Pro- and mesonotum substantially 

 as in florens, but the former a little broader and more truncated between 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 471 



the eyes; the mesonotal cariiiir more parallel, almost continuous with 

 those of the pronotum. Elytra a little narrower and more slender, 

 with a closer venation at apex. Waives of the female l()np;er than 

 broad, parallel at base within; plates long and strap-shaped, curved 

 upwards and reaching the apex of the pygofers. Sides of the genital 

 segment of the male very oblique, extended to a subacute angle 

 dorsally, the plates long, ovate, obtuse at apex and attaining the tip 

 of the pygofers. 



Described from one female and two male examples taken by me at 

 Cape ^lay and Anglesea, New Jersey; one male taken at Wildwood, 

 New Jersey, by Prof. C. W. Johnson; one female from Anglesea, 

 New Jersey, received from Prof. J. B. Smith; and Mrs. Slosson has 

 sent me a specimen from Florida. This species is very close to florens, 

 but the genital characters are very tlifferent and the apex of the front 

 is more acute with concolorous carinie. 



Genus SCOLOPSELLA Ball. 

 Scolopsella reticulata Ball. 



Dr. E. D. Ball has described both this genus and species in the 

 Proceedings of the Biological Soc. of Wash., Vol. X\'II1, p. 118, 1905. 

 1 have recently received from Prof. J. B. Smith a fine pair of this 

 interesting insect taken in tiie Colorado Desert. Dr. Ball's type 

 was collected in Arizona i\v Prof. F. H. Snow. This insect is dark 

 fuscous varied or tessellated all oxer with pale fulvous brown. It 

 has much the appearance of a Dictyophara, but the long cephalic 

 process is linear or a little spoon-shaped at apex and corrugated along 

 the sides. I would place the genus in our fauna between Dictyophara 

 and Seal ops. 



Genus SCOLOPS Schaum. 



Of this peculiar genus sixteen species have been described from our 

 country, not counting pungens of Germar. which may prove to be 

 identical with some one of our eastern forms described by our later 

 entomologists. Of these, thirteen species are now represented in my 

 collection. For a synoptical arrangement they require a more thorough 

 study than I am now able to give them. 



Genus PHYLLOSCELIS Cerm. 



This genus is readily distinguished b}' its short vertex and foliaceous 

 anterior femora. Two species have been described: 



Phyllo8celi8 pallescens Germ. 



Descrilif'd from Peiinsvlvania, but it is common in New Jersev. The 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



macropterous form has a very simple elytral venation; the longi- 

 tudinal nervures fork near their base and run straight to the apex, 

 before which they are connected by one series of transverse veins; in 

 the center of each areole is a longitudinal carina simulating a suj)er- 

 numerary nervure. 



Phyllosoelis atra Germ. 



Described from Pennsylvania, and I have taken it in Xew Jersey 

 and Kansas. In the macropterous form of this species the radial and 

 outer ulnar nervures run straight and unforked to near the apex, the 

 inner ulnar is forked near the apex; thus making three large subapical 

 and seven or eight very small apical areoles. The elytra are opaque, 

 impunctate, but minutely shagreened, and want the longitudinal 

 carinae found in pallescens. 



Dr. Melichar has described a variety, albovenoso. of this species 

 that seems alwa3's to be found with the typical form. It is piceous, 

 with pale legs, scutellum and elytral nervures. 



Genus ORGEEIUS St&l. 



The only North American species of this genus, rhyparus Stal, was 

 described from California. Dr. Ball and I took this species in numbers 

 at Rifle and Grand Junction, Colorado, in July, 1900. Xo long-winged 

 form has yet been recorded. 



LOXOPHORA n. gen. 



Related to Orgerius and Phylloscelis. Head much narrower than the 

 pronotum. Vertex short, transverse, foveate, not attaining the apex 

 of the head. Front long and parallel, its base returned over on to the 

 superior aspect of the head, anteriorly with a raised tricarinate linear 

 median compartment. Clypeus roundingly narrowed to the apex, 

 distinctly tricarinate. Antennne placed some distance below the 

 lower angle of the eye. Pronotum short, roundedly produced between 

 the eyes, hind edge broadly angularly emarginate, carinate on the 

 middle line; sides with one carina behind the eye; pectoral flap very 

 large. Mesonotimi rather small, tricarinate. Elytra short, truncated, 

 reaching the apex of the second tergal segment, with three longi- 

 tudinal carinse, the inner forked before the apex, surface with a few 

 reticulations. Tergum carinate. Posterior tibiae with four spines in 

 the male. 



This genus has the short and broad form of Orgerius and the short 

 vertex of Phylloscelis. The tricarinate compartment of the front is 

 narrower and the pronotum is shorter and more emarginate than in 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



either of those genera. I cannot agree with MeUchar in placing 

 Phylloscelis in the Issida. It is closely allied to Orgerius and Scolops. 

 In the macropterous examples the claval nervure is united with the 

 commissural and not continued to the apex as in the Issida. 



Loxophora transversa n. sp. 



Form of Orgerius rhyparus Stal. Vertex transverse, abor.t half the 

 length of the superior aspect of the head, differentiated from the base 

 of the front by a transverse, slightly angled carina. Linear tricarinate 

 compartment of the front attaining the apex of the head, not con- 

 tinued on the reflexed superior base, its lateral carinse diverging at 

 apex on the basal suture of the clypeus. Pronotum scarcely longer 

 than the vertex, a little wider behind the eyes, distinctly produced 

 anteriorly between the eyes. Mesonotum short, tricarinate, the 

 lateral widely divergent, following the hind edge of the pronotum for 

 half their length and leaving but a small compartment at either lateral 

 angle. Elytra feebly reticulated between the longitudinal nervures. 

 Tergum with three broken carinse on either side of the median, one 

 marginal and two intermediate. Length to tip of the abdomen 4 mm., 

 greatest width 2^ mm. 



Color testaceous brown, base of the vertex with a transverse black 

 line; base and sides of the front, pronotum, lateral angles of the mesono- 

 tum and the lateral disks of the tergal segments ornamented with large 

 distinct round black punctures. Face and sides of the chest crossed 

 by a broad creamy white transverse band between two black ones; 

 the lower of these latter is varied with paler, the upper is deep black and 

 on the disk of the inferior pronotal flap is intensified and brilliantly 

 polished; median compartment of the front above the black transverse 

 band black with white carinse. Anterior edge of the pronotum beneath 

 the eyes black, the lower edge of the inferior flaps whitish. Disk of 

 the mesonotvmi between the lateral carinae creamy white with the apex 

 black. Elytra piceous brown with a broad subapical creamy white 

 band. Tergum black at base of the apical segments, disk of the 

 fourth segment creamy white between the intermediate carinse. 

 Venter varied with dark brown and creamy white. Legs brown, 

 anterior and intermediate femora twice banded with pale, posterior 

 tarsi and tiVjial spines blackish. 



Described from one male example kindly sent to me by Prof. H. F. 

 Wickham and labelled "Ch. Ranch, Utah, July 22." This strikingly 

 marked insect is so distinct from any other described species I do not 

 h&sitate to describe both the genus and species from a single specimen. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Subfamily TROPIDUCHIDA Stal. 



Of tills subfamily but two species have heretofore been recorded 

 from our territory: Tangia sponsa Uhler and Monopsis tabida Spin., 

 both from Florida, but doubtless others will yet be found along our 

 southern border. I describe below a third species which has been 

 masquerading in our collections under a false name. 



Genus PELITROPIS n. gen. 



Closely allied to Tamhinia Stal and differing principally by its wider 

 head, ecarinate front and different elytral venation. Head with the 

 eyes as wide as the pronotum or nearly so, laminately flattened. Vertex 

 produced, flat; base angularly emarginate; sides parallel; margins and 

 middle line carinate. Front almost horizontal, broad, sides parallel, 

 base angularly rounded, disk a little depressed, ecarinate. Clypeus a 

 little convex, ecarinate. Pronotum roundedly produced before, 

 deeply angularly emarginate behind; tricarinate, the lateral carinae 

 curved, almost attaining the posterior angles. Mesonotum tricarinate, 

 the lateral approximate before, the median terminating in a transverse 

 furrow before the apex. Elytra long and narrow, parallel, with a 

 very slender costal membrane; radial nervures simple; first ulnar 

 forked behind the middle, second at the middle ; claval nervures united 

 before the middle of the commissural margin, the resulting nervure 

 attaining the apex of the clavus; apex of the elytra subangularl}^ 

 rounded ; inner edge of the membrane almost rectilinear, outer curved : 

 base of membrane separated from the corium by a subangulated line 

 of transverse nervures, behind which eight longitudinal nervures run 

 straight and almost parallel to the apex; these are crossed about half- 

 way to the apex by a second series of transverse veinlets ; a few super- 

 numerary veinlets may occur on the disk either side of this second line, 

 and two short longitudinal nervures are interpolated near the inner 

 angle; apical margin with a very narrow areolate or punctate appendix. 

 Posterior tibiae trispinose. 



Tills genus is very near Tamhinia Stal from Ceylon, and in our fauna 

 should be placed near Monopsis and Tangidia. 



Pelitropis rotulata n. sp. 



Pale green obscurely varied with brown. Vertex as long as broad, 

 anterior margin obtuselv angled, almost parallel with the posterior; 

 edge carinate all around, median carina distinct, surface depressed with 

 a few lineations, most conspicuous of which are two on the middle and 

 two on either side anteriorly, placed at right angles to and touching 

 the margin. Cheeks before the eyes narrow, pointed, together with 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



the plcurjp ami sides of the pronotum deeper ^reeu, marked with black 

 above under the lateral carinae of the vertex and with a short parallel 

 line below from the anterior angle of the eye. Front almost horizontal, 

 its disk oblong, depressed; its length one-third greater than its width; 

 its sides parallel and its base obtuse!}' angled, the apical angles cut off 

 in line with the sides of the clypeus. Clypeus an equilateral triangle, 

 the three sides rectilinear. Ocelli minute, placed next the lower angle 

 of the eye. Antenna? placed against the inferior edge of the eye; base 

 green cylindrical, next joint brown, surmounted by a slender brown 

 seta. Pronotum of about equal length across its whole width, deeply 

 acutely emarginate behind; carinte distinct, the lateral meeting the 

 median before, curved, at first concentric with the anterior edge, almost 

 attaining the prominent posterior angles; sides tricarinate behind the 

 eyes, the inferior carina bovmded above by a black line, and there are a 

 few obscure marks along the disk anteriorly. Tegulse small with a 

 black disk. Mesonotum with some obscure marks on the disk. Elytra 

 pale greenish pellucid, sparseh' dotted with black along the nervures of 

 the clavus and corium; those along the costa drawn out in oblique 

 false veinlets; tip of the membrane a little smoky with some of the 

 transverse veins brownish. Beneath deeper green, the legs paler with 

 the tips of the tarsal and tibial sjiines and a mark on the apex of the 

 femora exteriorly blackish. Length 7 mm. 



Described from three examples from Florida. One is a fine fresh 

 specimen kindly given me by Mrs. Slosson, the other two are old speci- 

 mens changed to a dull testaceous brown. This species is frequently 

 determined as Monopsis floriche Walker. Mr. Otto Heidemann has 

 kindly compared this with National Museum material and sends me 

 the names used here for the genus and species. These were given by 

 Dr. Uhler, who recognized it as distinct from Monopsis, but who it 

 seems never published either the genus or sj^ecies. 



Subfamily ACHILIDA Stal. 



Genus HELICOPTERA A. and S. (1843), {Elidiptera Spin. 1S39). 



This gcmis was first described as EliiUptcrn by Spinola. and I can see 

 no valid reason for the change made by Amyot and Serville; but as the 

 more recent name has been almost universally adopted I have thought 

 best to retain it here. Our species may be distinguished as follows: 



Color black, front white or banded with white 1. 



Color brown or grayish, 2. 



1. Vertex about as long as broad : front wliite with a black basal band, 



opaca Say. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



— . \'ertex twice as long as broad; front white without a basal band, 

 abdomen red, colorata Van D. 



2. Front transversely banded, 3. 



— . Front imicolorous, perhaps shading a little darker toward the base, 



not banded, 4. 



3. Front brown, base abruptly darker; elytra narrow, parallel, wider 



toward the apex, indistinctly variegated or irrorated ; pronotum 

 deeply, angularly emarginate behind, . . Slossoni Van D. 

 — . Front creamy white with a fuscous base and brown clypeus ; elytra 

 expanded, the costal edge quite uniformly rounded; surface 

 distinctly variegated ; pronotum obtusely emarginate behind , 



pallida Say. 



4. Vertex as long as broad; pronotum strongly produced, truncated 



between the eyes; elytra brown, very obsoletely variegated; 

 front unicolorous, pale testaceous brown; venter blackish 



fuscous, septentrionalis Prov. 



— . Vertex distinctly broader than long; pronotum less produced, 

 rounded before between the eyes; front irrorate, shading to 

 darker at base; elytra variegated, . . . variegata Van D. 



Helicoptera vestita Prov. is evidently a sj^nonym of opaca Say. 

 Monopsis floridw and fusca Walker are placed by Stal in Helicoptera, 

 but they are unknown to me in nature. 



Helicoptera opaoa Say. 



This large and broad species is black with the elytra more brownish 

 and opaque, the areoles closely and minutely dotted with pale and with 

 a pale stigmatal spot; the face is deep black with a broad transverse 

 band of yellowish white covering the front to the superior line of the 

 eyes. This pale band is extended more narrowly along the sides of the 

 pleurae. Antennae pale fulvous. This seems to be a rare and local 

 form. I took one example at Phoenicia, in the Catskills, in August, 1904, 

 and Mr. John D. Evans, of Trenton, Ontario, has sent me another for 

 study that he took in County Hastings, Ontario. Mr. Evans' speci- 

 men, which is a male, has the pronotum and disk of the vertex 

 obscurely irrorate with pale. I have seen one or two additional speci- 

 mens in other collections. 

 Helicoptera colorata n. sp. 



Allied to opaca, but smaller and narrower with a strongly produced 

 vertex. Black, front and vertex white, venter sanguineous. Vertex 

 long, moderately narrowed toward its rounded apex, its length a little 

 more than twice its width at base; median line almost obsolete, disk 

 soiled white, margins strongly reflexed, black. Front long, much 

 narrowed toward the base, precurrent median carinas feeble; reflexed 

 margins expanded tow^ards the base of the clypeus; white wnth the 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



margins black beyoiul the apical angle of the eyes; sides of the head to 

 the lower line of the eyes and the clypeus black; antennal base soiled 

 yellowish white like the vertex. Pronotum rather obtnsely angnlarly 

 einarginate behind, strongly produced before, the narrow apex trun- 

 cated before between the eyes; carinae strong, the lateral straight and 

 almost reaching the hind margin; color black, a little piceous between 

 the carina?, the dcflexcd sides edged with white below. ]\Iesonotum 

 black, opaque, the carinae distinct at base, becoming obsolete, the 

 lateral at the middle, the median beyond the middle; metanotum 

 apparently rufous. Elytra narrow, but little expanded at base, 

 appendix broad ; color black, nervures mostly pale, areoles except along 

 the costa and on the appendix dotted with pale, mostly in a single row 

 in each areole; stigma concolorous. Wings deep smoky brown with 

 fuscous nervures. Sternum black anteriorly, pale posteriorly and 

 about the coxae; propleurac edged with white above. Anterior and 

 intermediate legs black, posterior brown. Abdomen sanguineous, 

 perhaps somewhat fuscous above; apical pieces paler edged with black. 

 Sides of the genital segment of the female feebly arcuated, not at all 

 sinuated. Length 8 mm. ; width across the elytra scant 3 mm. 



Described from one female example swept by me from bushes on a 

 wooded hillside at Gowanda, New York, August 7, 1907. This is a beau- 

 tiful addition to our Fulgorid fauna. Its strongly produced head, white 

 front, sanguineous abdomen and narrower and blacker elytra, wanting 

 the stigmatal spots, will at once distinguish this from opaca. The 

 elongated head seems to ally this species with genus Pseudohelicoptera 

 Fowler, but by itself does not seem to warrant the establishment of a 

 separate genus. Fowler's species probably is not congeneric with this. 



Heliooptera pallida Say. 



Mrs. Slosson has sent me specimens of this species and septcntrionalis 

 Prov. from the White Mountains that show them to be sufHciently 

 distinct. Pallida is proportionately broader than any of our other 

 described species; the vertex is about as long as broad, being longer 

 than in variegata; the elytra are very pale brown, closely irrorated and 

 reticulated with pale, these colors being about evenly divided; there 

 are a few larger brown spots, about two on the disk of the corium and 

 three toward the apex, the latter somewhat broken by the pale nervures. 

 The front is pale with its base abruptly, and the clypeus brown. This 

 pale color is extended along the sides of the pleurae and is bounded 

 above with black. Abdomen mostly fuscous; metanotum rufous. 

 Last ventral segment of the female sinuated, subangulated on either 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



side; genital segment quite deeply notched toward its ventral aspect. 

 Length 9 mm. ; width across the elytra about 4 mm. 

 Helicoptera septentrionalis Prov. 



A little narrower than pallida with the elytra less expanded, the 

 vertex shorter and the pronotum more deeply angularly emarginate. 

 Front uniformly pale testaceous brown; pleurae marked as in pallida. 

 Elytra more uniformly colored, the claval and costal nervures dis- 

 tinctly alternated; apical field with three brown points and there are 

 indications of three minute ones along the costal areole; abdomen 

 blackish, pale at tip. Last ventral segment of the female feebly 

 sinuated, rounded on either side, edge of the genital segment truncated, 

 scarcely if at all sinuated. Length S mm., width across the elytra 

 scant 4 mm. 



This species is very close to pallida, and without the two for direct 

 comparison it would be difficult to distinguish satisfactorily between 

 them. They are sufficiently distinct, however, and I feel sure that I 

 have rightly identified them here. 

 Helicoptera slossoni n. sp. 



Allied to variegata, but proportionately much narrower and with a 

 slightly longer vertex. 



Vertex about as long as the median line of the pronotum. Front 

 narrower at base which is rounded, as is the apex of the vertex; its sides 

 straight in the female, slightly arcuated in the male ; its color ferrugin- 

 ous brown in the female, yellowish in the male, scarcely irrorate, 

 abruptly darker at base. Produced anterior margin of the pronotum 

 subtruncated between the eyes ; lateral carinas almost straight, a little 

 curved anteriorly; median carinse short, basal; carina? of the mesono- 

 tum obsolete posteriorly. Vertex, pronotum and mesonotum fuscous 

 brown, minutely irrorated with pale; deflexed sides of the pronotum 

 deep black edged with white in the male and ferruginous yellow in the 

 female; disk of the mesonotum darker with the extreme tip pale. 

 Elytra fuscous brown quite regularly irrorated with paler, and marked 

 in the female with a fuscous spot on the stigma and several round 

 points on the disk, arranged three in a row on the costal areole, three 

 clustered in the apical field and two on the disk of the corium at about 

 the middle. Wings smoky with fuscous nervures. Lower surface and 

 legs in the female pale brownish varied with flavous on the sides of the 

 pleural pieces, the abdomen fuscous, pale on the apex and in places 

 on the edges of the segments; in the male the lower surface becomes 

 yellowish, with the pleural pieces edged with black above and the 

 abdomen more or less fuscous. Sides of the genital segment of the 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 479 



female ol)li(iuely truiioatccl, scarcely simiuted. Length S nun., wiilth 

 across the elytra 3 nmi. 



Described from one pair taken on Mt. Washinfjton by Mrs. Annie 

 Trumbull Slosson. It affords me pleasure to dedicate tiiis interesting 

 species to Mrs. Slosson as a slight recognition oi licr valuable services 

 to entomology in bringing to light so many new and rare insects. 



This species may readily be recognized by its uniformly dark 

 color, slender form and narrow elytra witii the appendix but slightly 

 developed. 

 Helicoptera variegata n. sp. 



Larger than pallida and opaca; grayish varied with pale fuscous 

 brown. \'ertex shorter than in any other Helicoptera known to me, 

 about the length of the eye in its greatest superior diameter, regularly 

 rounded before, disk pale with a longitudinal furrow, edge reflexed, 

 darker. Front narrow, contracted l)asally, the sides almost sinuated, 

 distinctly tricarinate and with the clypeus pale brownish shading to 

 darker basally and along the carinae, more or less distinctly irrorated 

 with i)ale; clypeal suture quite strongly angulated. Pronotum shorter 

 and more deeply emarginate than in pallida, the produced anterior 

 margin rounded between the eyes, lateral carinse broadly rounded 

 outwardly, median carina feeble but almost attaining the anterior 

 margin in one example, upper surface of the pronotum brown or fer- 

 ruginous brown, closely irrorated with pale, below the carinate edge 

 deep black, bordered with white. Mesonotum brown or ferruginous, 

 irrorated with pale, becoming darker before the pale apex and marked 

 with a darker line without the base of the lateral carinse close to the 

 basal angles. These carina feeble, especially the median. Elytra 

 brown varied with gray patches, most conspicuous of which is one 

 along the base of the inner claval area, about four very irregular and 

 indefinite ones along the median line of the coriiun and another adjoining 

 the blackish apex of the clavus; the dark areas irrorate with pale in 

 places and the nervures more or less irrorated, those at the apex pale; 

 about three fuscous points in the costal area and three others approxi- 

 mate in the apical field. Wings smoky, darker toward their apex, the 

 nervures fuscous. Beneath testaceous varied with pale brown; disk 

 of the ventral segments sometimes fuscous. Legs pale brown with the 

 knees still paler. Sides of the genital segment of the female quite 

 deeply angularly emarginate. Length 8 to 10 mm. ; width across the 

 elytra about 4 mm. 



Described from one female example taken by Mr. W. Metcalf at 

 Ottawa, Ontario, and a pair somewhat longer and paler taken by Mrs. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Slosson at Franconia, New Hampshire. Airs. Slosson has also sent me 

 a male taken at Richmond, Virginia, which I believe belongs to this 

 species. In this the elytra are pale brown, irrorated but scarcely 

 variegated with gray. This is the species most commonly received 

 from correspondents, and I have formerly determined it as septentri- 

 onalis Prov., but a fine series of Helicoptcras recently received from Mrs. 

 Slosson has enabled me to correct this determination. 



Genus CATONIA Uhler. 



This genus was founded by Dr. Uhler in 1895 {Proc. Zool. Soc, p. 61) . 

 It is certainly very close to Plcctoderes Spinola, which is still unknown 

 to me in nature, but it has a somewhat different aspect and undoul^tedly 

 is sufficiently distinct. I would distinguish it from Hdicoptera by its 

 narrower, more elongated form and the much shorter pronotum, which 

 forms a rounded flap behind the eyes and not a longitudinal compart- 

 ment as in Helicoptera. Dr. Uhler states that the posterior tibia? are 

 unarmed, but this is not strictly true of any of the species known to me. 

 All, including intricata, the type species, have a minute spine placed 

 much nearer the base than in Helicoptera, and in fusca there are two 

 such spines. In Catonia the basal joint of the antennse is almost 

 globular, while in all the Helicopteras known to me this joint is much 

 more elongated. The three species of Helicoptera described by Fowler 

 in the Biologia evidently belong to this genus. 



Catonia cinctifrons Fitch is unknown to me, l)ut our other seven 

 species may be separated as follows : 



Front conspicuously transversely banded, 1 



Front not distinctly banded, 4. 



1. Hind tibiffi with two small spines, elytra uniformly fuscous dotted 



with pale; inhabits California, fusca Van D. 



— . Hind tibife unispinose, 2. 



2. Elytra unicolorous, nervures impunctate, . impu7ictata Fitch. 

 - — . Elytra variegated, nervures punctate, 3. 



3. Larger, front strongly narrowed basally, this base scarcely banded, 



imva Say. 



— . Smaller, front not greatly narrowed basally, transverse bands 



two, conspicuous, picta Van D. 



4. Larger, elytral areoles with numerous incomplete transverse vein- 



lets, apex of mesonotum with a pair of ocellated black points, 



grisea Van D. 

 — . Smaller, elytra maculated, without reticulating veinlets, . . 5. 



5. Vertex and base of the front broader; elytral areoles almost im- 



maculate, with a whitish transverse band indicated across the 

 apical third of the clavus, pumila Van D. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4S1 



— . Vortex and ba'^c of tlic froT)t iiarrower; clytral arcoles more 

 varieiiated and minutely dotted with pale in the darker areas; 

 inhabits the West Indies, iuiricala Uhler. 



Catonia fusca n. s<i'. 



Form and size of grisea; fuscous brown; elytra unicolorous dotted 

 with white; front banded. Length 5\ mm. 



Vertex short, transverse, brown with pale carina?, anterior and 

 posterior margins parallel, hardly arcuated. Front about as in 

 im'punctaia ; rather broad and but little narrowed basally, the carinae 

 strong, the marginal well elevated ; whitish tinged with fulvous brown 

 on the base and toward the apex of the clypeus ; crossed by two broad 

 black bands; margins scarcely dotted toward their base. Antennae 

 brown with their seta black. Pronotum blackish with pale carinse, 

 the lateral concentric as in all the species know^n to me, with about 

 three branches to the hind margin. Mesonotum fulvous with the three 

 straight parallel carina^ and extreme apex pale, the carinse margined 

 with fuscous. Elytra uniformly smoky brown, a little paler toward the 

 margins, nervures pale toward the apex, areoles dotted with pale. 

 Abdomen with pale segmental margins; pleural pieces fuscous varied 

 with pale. Legs pale brown, becoming a little darker at the knees. 



Described from one female specimen collected in San Mateo County, 

 California, by a Mr. Coleman. 



Catonia nava Say. 



This is a somewhat larger and darker species than grisea, with the 

 front strongly narrowed basally; base brown minutely irrorated with 

 paler, followed by a white transverse median band and then a blackish 

 band next the base of the pale clypeus; the marginal carinse dotted 

 with pale. Mesonotum tinged with fulvous with a large blackish 

 central cloud. The elytra quite strongly variegated and dotted on the 

 nervures. I have taken this species at Hamburg and Gowanda, New 

 York, and have seen others from the Eastern States. 



Catonia cinctifrons Fitch. 



I have not yet seen anything that just answers to the description 

 given by Fitch, but this seems to be a good species very near to iiava 

 and is perhaps Say's variety "a" of that species. 



Catonia picta n. sp. 



Allied to nava and cinctifrons. Face white with two black bands; 

 mesonotum rufopiceous; elytra obscurely banded. Length 5^ mm. 



Front broad, but slightly narrowed at base ; clypeus short, conical, and 

 with the front tricarinate,the lateral carinae marginal, strongly elevated. 

 32 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Vertex short, broader than long, but feebly advanced before the eyes, 

 obtusely angled before; margins and middle line carinate. Pronotum 

 very short, almost linear, tricarinate. Mesonotum much longer than 

 the pronotum and vertex together, tricarinate, the lateral carinse 

 rectilinear, very slightly diverging posteriorly. 



Color testaceous gray; mesonotum and a large costal spot or indis- 

 tinct transverse band on the basal third of the elytra obscure rufo- 

 piceous, behind this dark band is a broad indefinite whitish vitta; 

 nervures mostly dotted, the dots on the costa and commissure larger; 

 commissure with four black points, two on either margin of the whitish 

 band; ti]) of the scutellum, a chain of points on the pronotum and a 

 few on the vertex whitish. Beneath pale fulvous. Front deep black 

 with a broad median transverse band of ivory white; the marginal 

 carina? dotted with white and an indefinite whitish band crosses the 

 base of the clypeus. Tip of the rostrum and tarsal spines black; 

 knees discolored. 



Described from one example taken at Lakehurst, New Jersey, 

 August 18, and kindly sent to me for study by Prof. John B. Smith. 

 This may be the variety "a" of Say's 7iava, although that is more 

 likely to be the cinctifrons of Fitch, but it is a very distinct species j 

 Its smaller size, strongly marked front, and less maculated elytra, 

 showing obscure transverse banding, will distinguish it. 



Catonia impunctata Fitch. 



This species, like cinctifrons, was described by Fitch as a Cixius. It 

 is a little smaller than 7iava with the elytra testaceous brown, subhya- 

 line, almost immaculate, with the nervures touched with white in places, 

 indicating a transverse band near the middle and on the base of the 

 apical areoles. Fitch seems to have described the male and included 

 the female as a variety. The female has the whole basal portion of the 

 face black, with the black marks on the vertex and pronotum scarcely 

 indicated. I have taken this species at Phoenicia in the Catskills, and 

 have received specimens from Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the 

 Middle States. The Myndus impunctatus of my Buffalo list was 

 sordidipennis and not the present species. 



Catonia grisea n. sp. 



Nearest to intricata Uhler, but a little larger and paler; elytra gray 

 varied with white; front pale feebly maculated; mesonotum brown 

 with two black points posteriorly. Length 6-7 mm. 



Front elongated, quite strongly narrowed basally with the sides 

 almost straight and the carinse strong; pale flavous, in the female 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



obscurely irroratcil on the base of the front and dypeus leaving a paler 

 intermediate bantl, indicated on the marginal cariiue by two brownish 

 spots. Vertex almost square, feebly angled anteriorly, projecting 

 about half its length before the eyes, the lateral fova? marked wdth a 

 dark point. Pronotum shorter than the vertex, rather sharply angled 

 and marked with a blackish line beneath the eye. Mesonotum pale, 

 (|uite strongly maculated with brown in the female, with pale carinae 

 and a black jioint jiosteriorly placed in a pale annulus within the 

 lateral cariiur. I^lytra whitish tinged with smoky especially toward 

 their tips; the nervures white, the areoles with numerous imperfect 

 transverse white veinlets; on the costa are a few larger brown spots. 

 Beneath pale, the abdomen fuscous with the segments edged with pale. 



Described from a series of both sexes taken at Niagara Falls, Ham- 

 burg and Gow^anda, New York, and one female taken on basswood at 

 Ottawa. Ont., by Mr. W. Metcalfe. This is our most abundant northern 

 species of Catonia. It varies some in the extent of maculation on the 

 vertex, pronotum and mesonotum. but the pair of ocellated points near 

 the tip of the scutellimi seems to be a j)crsistent character. 

 Catonia pumila n. sp. 



Allied to griseo, but much smaller and wanting the ocellated points 

 before the apex of the scutelluni. Length 4 nun. 



Vertex longer and iiai'rower than in grisen, projecting for more than 

 half its length before the eyes, subangularly roimded before. Front 

 proportionate!}' a little broader and sliorter than in grisea; carinae dis- 

 tinct, but the marginal not as strongly elevated as in its ally. Color 

 yellowish testaceous tinged Avith fulvous on the vertex and scutellum 

 and with the carince slightly paler. Pronotum pale obscurely dotted 

 with brown; front nearly immaculate, the marginal carinse obscurely 

 dotted ; eyes and antermal setie black. Elytra obscure brownish hya- 

 line becoming fulvous along the costa; a whitish transverse band is 

 indicated before the apex of the clavus, and the apex of the corium and 

 some vague areas along the costa are paler; apical nervure margined 

 within by a fuscous vitta which is broken by the pale veins; all the 

 nervures more or less distinctly dotted with pale. As in the allied 

 species the wings are smoky hyaline with strong fuscous nervures. 

 Anterior and intermediate tibiic banded. 



Described from one pair taken by me at Milan, Ohio, September 1, 

 1005, and another male which I took in August, 1904, at Jamaica, Long 

 Island. This latter has the edges of the ventral segments touched with 

 sanguineous. This is a neat little species recognizable by its small size 

 and unmarked front. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Catonia intricata Uhler. 



This is a small species very close to pumila, but the front is more 

 narrowed basally, pale, closely dotted with brown,, and the elytra are 

 more variegated and minutely dotted with pale, and in some examples 

 are quite decidedly tinged with rufous toward the costa. Dr. Uhler 

 described this species from the Island of St. Vincent. I took it in 

 Jamaica and Prof. Ball has received it from Hayti. So far it has not 

 been reported from the United States, but it is quite likely to be found 

 in southern Florida. 



Subfamily CIXIIDA Stal. 



This subfamily has a wide distribution in the temperate regions of 

 the world. Six genera and thirty-five species are now known from this 

 country. Monorachis Uhler is too insufficiently known to me to be 

 included in this table. Our other genera may be separated as follows : 



Posteriortibiaearmed with two or three spines, 1. 



Posterior tibise unarmed, 2. 



1. Base of the head broadly sinuated; mesonotum tricarinate, 



Cixius Latr. 



— . Base of the head angulate-emarginate; mesonotum normally 5- 



carinate, Oliarus Stal. 



2. Eyes sinuated anteriorly, antennse inserted before this sinus, 



Bothriocera Burm. 

 — Eyes sinuated inferiorly, or entire, antennce inserted below the eyes, 



3. 



3. Base of the head truncated ; vertex very narrow, its sides parallel 



or wider anteriorly; front and clypeus elongated, .CEdeus StaL 



— . Base of the head subsinuated ; vertex broader, narrowed anterio ly ; 



front and clypeus together elliptical, . . . Myndus Stal. 



Genus MONORACHIS T'hler. 

 Monoracliis sordulentus Uhler. 



Mrs. Slosson has very kindly sent me for study a type specimen of 

 this species which unfortunately is without a head. As nearly as I can 

 judge from the fragment remaining, I believe this is the species after- 

 ward described by Canon Fowler as Metabrixia aspersa from Mexico and 

 Vera Cruz. This may sink the genus Metabrixia as a synonym of 

 Monorachis, although this is by no means certain, as Canon Fowler 

 says, "This species differs considerably from the rest and may belong 

 to another genus." Mrs. Slosson's specimen seems to be of a short- 

 winged form. 



Genus BOTHRIOCERA Burm. 

 Bothriocera tinealis Burm. 



After a careful study of further material received from Mrs. Slosson 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLI'HI A. ' 485 



and others. 1 am euiiviuced that the species found tiiroughout the West 

 Indies and Florida and listed by nie as B. Signoreti in my paper on 

 .laniaican lleniiptera is really Adana Wcsttcoodi Stal, which Canon 

 i'owler places as a synonym of Bolhrioccra iincaUs Burra. He states 

 that Siijnordi may be known by its having the apex of the elytra 

 broadl}' hhickish, while in iinadis it is nu;re or less invaded with 

 liyaline. 



Bothriecera undata 1 abi. 



Described from tlie West Indies. Mi's. Slosson has sent me a speci- 

 men captunnl by hcv at Lake Worth, Morida. 



Genus OLIARUS StM. 



Of this cosmopolitan genus nine species have been recorded from 

 North America, of which six are now represented in my collection. 

 Here we find the vertex longer than in Cixius, almost quadrangular, 

 with the base angularly emarginate. Generally there are five distinct 

 carinai on the mesonotum. The following artificial key will assist in 

 placing the species known to me : 



Elytra pellucid or nearly so, sometimes banded or mottled with brown, 



1. 

 Elytra deep smoky brown, at least toward the apex, .... 4. 



1. Elytral nervures distinctly punctate, 2. 



— . Elytra hyaline or a little dusky at apex where the nerviu-es are 



then heavy and brown, nervures impunctate or nearly so, . 5. 



2. Front broad, brown with an ivory white area on either margin 



next the base of the clypeiis; elytra hyaline with the stigma 



and nervures toward their apex brown, . . . aridus Ball. 



— . Front unicolorous, the clyjjeus sometimes a little paler, . . 3. 



3. Clypeus scarcely paler than the front; elytra le.ss maculated, the 



stigma distinct! \^ longer than broad, . . . vicarius Walk. 

 — . Clypeus generally j^aler than the front; elytra more maculated or 

 generally transversely banded, stigma subquadrate, 



5-lineatus Say. 



4. Elytra deoji smoky brown, the slender costa and stigma pale, 



cinnamomeiis Prov. 



— . Elytra smoky at apex l^eyond the stigma, base usually subhya- 



line, size smaller, humilis Say. 



5. Length S mm., elytra entirely pellucid with fuscous nervures, 



'stigma, and basal band, hyalinus Yan D. 



— . Length 4-5 mm., elytra nearly hyaline or somewhat infuscated at 

 apex, without a basal band, complectus Ball. 



The following Xortli American species of Oliarus are still unknown 

 to me: 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



0. franciscanus StSl, Frega Eugenes Resa. Ins., p. 273, 1859. Cali- 

 fornia. Seems to be near aridiis Ball. 



0. sementinus Ball, Can. Ent., xxxiv, p. 152, 1902. Colorado. A 

 small robust species. 



0. 'pimn Kirk., Haw. Sugar Plant. Assoc, Bui. iv, p. 62, 1907. Arizona. 



1. Oliarus vicarius Walker. 



This species is very close to 5-1 i neat us Say. I separate it by its 

 slightly larger size, less strongly maculatetl elytra, longer and nar- 

 rower stigma and pellucid wings. The general color is paler, the 

 rostrum is considerabh^ longer, nearly or quite attaining th§ hind edge 

 of the sixth abdominal segment; and the intermediate carinse of the 

 mesonotum become evanescent or join the median carina some dis- 

 tance from the hind margin of the pronotum. I took an example of 

 this species at Atlanta, Georgia, in May, 1899, and have seen one pair 

 taken by Mrs. Slosson at Jacksonville and Omond, Florida. 



2. Oliarus quinquelineatus Say. 



This is our most ab\mdant and widely distri))uted species. I took a 

 fine series at Boulder, Colorado, in July, 1903, and have also taken it 

 about Buffalo, New York, and at Cape May, New Jersey, and Atlanta, 

 Georgia. Prof. Osborn has sent me specimens from Ohio, and I have 

 examined material from other localities as far south as Florida. 

 0. 5-lineatns is proportionateh' broader and shorter than vicarius, with 

 heavier elytral maculations, a blacker and nearly quadrate stigma and a 

 distinctly broader front. The general color is darker, almost a piceous 

 brown on the head and thorax, and the wings are quite deeply infuscated 

 toward their apex. The male genitalia are quite distinct from that of 

 vicarius; the ventral sinus on the genital segment is deeper with the 

 median tooth pale yellowish and slender, reaching to the line of the 

 rounded lateral lobes ; the plates are narrow and abruptly bent and but 

 little widened at apex, and the pygofers are expanded and rounded at 

 apex and considerably longer than the plates, forming a concave dome 

 beyond their tips. In vicarius the median tooth does not attain the 

 line of the lateral lobes of the genital segment; the expanded apex of 

 the plates are broader and more rounded and strongly reflexed, and the 

 pygofers are narrower, flatter at apex, and but little surpass the tip 

 of the plates. 



3. Oliarus aridus Ball. 



A western form of which I have before me only Colorado specimens. 

 It is of about the size of the preceding species and may be distinguished 

 by its broader vertex, the somewhat indefinite pale spots on the apex 

 of the front and the whitish-hyaline elytra with minutely dotted ner- 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI1>ADEI.PHIA. 487 



vures and slender stifjnia. The cross veins toward the apex of the 

 elytra are marked with fuscous, the winj^s are milky hyaline with 

 brown nervures and are unclouded, and the intermediate carina of 

 the mesonotum are obsolete anteriorly in my specimeas. 



4. Oliarus hyalinns n. sp. 



Most closely related to humeralis Fowler. Mesonotum tricarinate; 

 elytra hyaline, with fuscous nervures, stigma, basal band and com- 

 missural nervure. Length 8 mm. 



Vertex long and narrow, about as in complcctus Ball; blackish 

 fuscous with fulvous carinse and a whitish line either side next the 

 inner margin of the eye. Front strongly widened below; dark castane- 

 ous with pale carinse and a pale area on either side next the clypeal 

 margin. Clypeus blackish fuscous with pale carina?. Pronotum very 

 short, linear, acutely emarginate behind almost to the anterior margin ; 

 soiled yellowish clouded with fuscous at the sid&s and under the eyes. 

 Tegulce pale clouded on their di.sks. Mesonotum dark eastaneous; 

 intermediate carinse obsolete or very feebly indicated anteriorly. 

 Elytra long and narrow^ clear hyaline with the nervures brown, under 

 a lens very obscurely and minutely punctate ; marginal and transverse 

 nervures heavier; stigma long and narrow, fascous, darker inwardly 

 and bounded by a whitish nervure anteriorly; base marked by a trans- 

 verse fuscous band across the apex of the scutellum which scarcely 

 attains the costal margin; claval suture pale; commissural nervure 

 fuscous, heavier for a space on the middle, then whitish to the apex of 

 the clavus. Beneath blackish fuscoas, paler on the meso- and meta- 

 pleura and edges of the abdominal segments. Legs brownish testace- 

 ous, darker on the femora. Ventral sinus of the male genital segment 

 deep, with a short median tooth; its sides obliquely rounded; plates 

 long, but little separated at base; expanded apical plate as long as the 

 slender base, roundedly triangular, inner edges approximate, grooved ; 

 pygofers just as long as the plates and concentric with them at their 

 rounded apex. 



Described from one male example taken by Mrs. Annie Trumbull 

 Slosson at Biscayne Bay, Florida. This species is somewhat anom- 

 alous in genus Oliarus by its narrow pellucid elytra, practically impunc- 

 tate nervures and tricarinate mesonotum, in all which characters it 

 agrees most closely with compleciiis Ball. It has however the short 

 pronotum, angularly emarginate hind margin of the vertex and frontal 

 ocellus of Oliarus, in which genus I now place it. It closely resembles 

 Fowler's figure of 0. humeralis (Biologia, pi. x, fig. 18), but the basal 

 band is narrower and the elytra are pellucid, not milky-hyaline, and 

 the nervures are fuscous. I believe it quite distinct. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



5. Oliarus complectus Ball. 



This small .species has much the aspect of CEcleus dcccns Stal, ])ut the 

 vertex narrows anteriorly not posteriorly as in (Ecleus, and the hind 

 edge is angularly emarginate. In complectus the intermediate meso- 

 notal carinse are almost obsolete in some specimens. I have taken 

 this species at Effingham, Kansas, Washington, D. C, Niagara Falls and 

 at other localities about Buffalo. The eastern specimens differ from 

 those from Kansas in having the wings quite strongly infuscated 

 toward their apex, but the genital and other characters seem to be sub- 

 stantially the same. This is the only species known to me in which 

 the frontal ocellus is represented only by a scar. 



6. Oliarus cinnamomeus Prov. 



This is very distinct from any other species known to me. It can 

 at once be distinguished by its fuscous elytra with the slender costa 

 and the stigma whitish. Provancher's type came from Vancouver 

 Island ; Mrs. Slosson has taken it in the White Mountains, and Prof. 

 W. E. Britton has sent me three examples taken at Colbrooke, Con- 

 necticut. It seems to be a rare and local northern form. 



7. Oliarus humilis Say. 



This our most abundant northern species is sufficiently distinct from 

 any other. It varies considerably in size and depth of coloring. 



Genus CIXIUS Latr. 



Elytra black or nearly so ; commissural margin and the costa slenderly 

 pale; body black above with a broad pale vitta covering the 

 vertex and middle line of the pro- and mesonotum, 



dorsalis ^^an D. 



Elytra hyaline or slightly enfumed, frequently more or less banded or 

 maculated with fuscous; nervures with brown punctures, . 1. 



1. A'ertex distinctly transverse, at most obtusely angled before; 



elytra proportionately broader; outer sector of the corium 

 forked as near to or nearer the base than is the inner; macula- 



tion transverse, 2. 



— . Vertex a little longer than broad, triangular, its apex subacute; 

 elytra proportionately narrower; outer sector of the corium 

 forked farther from the base than is the inner; maculation 

 longitudinal, cuUns Ball. 



2. Vertex broad triangular, obtuse or subacute before, its apex very 



nearly attaining the apex of the front and almost bisecting the 

 transverse compartment at the apex of the head; front black 

 with the carinse pale; plates and stiles of the male about equal- 

 ling the pygofers, stigmatus Say. 



— . Vertex short, transverse, rounded before; transverse compart- 

 ment at the apex of the head much less narrowed, divided by a 

 median carina, 3. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 489 



3. Larger, G-7 mm.; clypeus paler tliaii flio front; plates and stiles 



of the male distinctly shorter tlian the i)y,<i;ofers, .... 4. 



— . Smaller, 5 mm.; face entirely black Avith pale carina; plates and 



stiles of the male as lonsi; as the pygofers, . colccpeum Fitch. 



4. Len<Tth 7 mm.; clypeus al^yuptly paler, at base strongly angled; 



plates of the male less than half the length of the pygofers; 

 elytra generally quite strongly maculated, their base more or 



less distinctly fuscous, basalis Van D. 



— . Length mm.; clypeus less strongly differentiated; plates more 

 than half the length of the pygofers; elytra almost immaculate 

 or Avith some small broken spots beyond the middle, base not 

 darker jnJii Fitch. 



Cixius basalis n. sp. 



Size and general aspect of Oliarus 5-lineatus. but readily distinguished 

 by the three mesonotal carinse. Vertex short transverse, arcuated, 

 its anterior and posterior margins about parallel, its outer angles 

 rounded, median carina not pronounced; transverse compartment at 

 the apex of the head but slightly narrowed at center. Front pro- 

 portionately longer than in pi7ii. but shorter than in stigmatus; black 

 with the strong carina fulvous ; clypeus abruptly fulvous, its apex and 

 the tylus blackish, basal margin strongl}^ angled. Pronotum linear 

 and deeph^ angled as in the allied species; soiled fulvous-yellow as are 

 the carinte of the vertex and the tegulse; mesonotum deep black with 

 a pale point at the posterior end of each carina. Elytra abruptly 

 widened near the base, then almost parallel to the stigma; whitish 

 hyaline, nervures white conspicuously dotted with black, costal 

 stronger with about 16 larger dots before the stigma, a few of which 

 are grouped where the transverse band touches the margin; the radial 

 forked nearer the base than is the second ulnar. In fully marked speci- 

 mens the base of the elytra are deep fuscous or black to behind the tip 

 of the scutellum; a broken linear transverse band crosses about half- 

 way to the stigma and another at the stigma; sometimes there is a 

 costal spot between these bands, and the transverse nervures at the 

 base of the apical areoles are heavily brown. Frequently the base is 

 but slightly obscured and the anterior band and costal spots or all the 

 markings are wanting or feebly indicated. Beneath black varied 

 with soiled yellow; legs pale with the femora more or less fuscous. 

 Abdomen black with the narrow edges of the segments and base of the 

 genital pieces of the female pale; in the male the plates, inferior surface 

 of the pygofers at base and a dot at each incism-e on the edge of the 

 abdomen is pale. Plates of the male short, slender at base, abruptly 

 expanded above in a transverse oblique plate lying against the slightly 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



oblique apical margin of the genital segment; pygofers extending for 

 more than half their length beyond the plates, estimating from the 

 ventral notch of the genital segments. Length 7 mm. 



Described from twelve examples taken by me at Hamburg and 

 Gowanda, New York; several taken af Quinze Lake, P. Q., by Mr. W. J. 

 Palmer, of Buffalo, and one strongly marked female taken at Como, 

 P. Q., by Mr. R. M. Moore. This our largest Cixius seems to be dis- 

 tinctively a northern form. Like the closely allied stigmatiis, pini 

 and coloepeum, it varies greatly in the extent of elytral maculation. 

 These species are very distinct in the characters of the male genitalia, 

 but it is difficult to so describe them that they may be readily recog- 

 nized. I feel tolerably certain of my determination of Say's stigmatus, 

 but have had to place the two species of Fitch more by size and general 

 appearance, and these can so stand until more definitely located by 

 comparison with the types, if they still exist. 

 Cixius stigmatus Say. 



In this species and coloepeum the male plates are not shorter than the 

 pygofers. In stigmatus the sides of the genital segment are short and 

 rounded, not oblique, the ventral notch broad and shallow, and the 

 expanded apex of the plates are broad and rounded. 



Cixius stigmatus seems to be more widely distributed than our other 

 species. I have taken it about Buffalo, New York, and have received 

 others from Rhode Island, and j\Ir. Palmer has taken it in numbers 

 along the trail from Temagami, Ontario, to Quinze Lake, Quebec. 

 Cizius pini Fitch. 



In this species as in basalis the male plates are much shorter than the 

 pygofers, bvit here they reach somewhat beyond their middle, recon- 

 ning from the ventral notch of the genital segment. The sides of this 

 segment are much more oblique than in basalis, and the expanded 

 apices of the plates are broader and more rounded and compressed 

 about the pygofers. This species I have taken at Buffalo, Hamburg, 

 Golden and Lake Placid, New York, and Denver, Colorado. 

 Cixius coloepeum Fitch. 



I have placed here a small species with more regularly maculated 

 elytra. At least they are so in the only specimens I have seen, but 

 doubtless this character is as variable as in the allied species. Here 

 the sides of the male genital segment are rounded, a little oblique, 

 with a broad shallow ventral notch. In all our species there is a small 

 median tooth at the apex of this ventral notch. In coloepeum the male- 

 plates are long, slender at base, expanded at apex in suborbicular disks 

 which just attain the apex of the pygofers. In this species, pini, and 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



stigmatus the elytra are proportionately broader, with the costa more 

 rouiulotl than in basal is. I have taken one male of coloepeum at Buffalo 

 and another at Sunset, Colorado, at an altitude of over 8,000 feet. 

 Cixias dorsalis ". ^i> 



Color blackish fuscous, paler beneath; front pleurrp and legs testa- 

 ceous brown, tingoti with ferruginous on the clypeus; front clouded 

 with brown, the carinir paler. Dorsal surface almost black with a 

 broad pale yellow vitta tinged with fulvous covering the whole vertex 

 the pro- and niesonotuni between the lateral carinae and the elytral 

 commissure^, where it becomes narrower and more obscured. Sides of 

 the mesonotuni deep l)lack. Costa very narrowly pale with a pale 

 spot on the base of the stigma; nervures concolorous, punctured, apical 

 areoles with a few vague paler spots. 



Vertex longer than in our other species, transverse, almost quad- 

 rangular, widened before by the expanded sides of the front. Pro- 

 notum very short, linear, roundly produced before, the anterior and 

 posterior margins almost parallel, very feebly angled behind; lateral 

 carime very oblique, terminating outside of the mesonotal carince, the 

 latter straight, but little divergent posteriorly; post-scutellum pale 

 across the middle. Pale commissural vitta of the elytra occupying 

 the interior claval areole. Wings smoky hyaline with fuscous nervures. 

 Length about 6 mm. 



Described from one female example taken by Mrs. Annie Trumbull 

 Slosson at Biscayne Bay, Florida. This species is very distinct from 

 any other known to me. Its black color with broad yellowish dorsal 

 vitta will at once distinguish it. 



The above six species of Cixius are all that are known to me to 

 inhabit North America, but Prof. Smith, in his Catalogue of the Insects 

 of Neiv Jersey, enumerates alhicincta Germ, from that State. I have 

 seen nothing that could be identified with that species, or have I 

 learned of its having been found elsewhere in this country. 



(ienus MYNDUS Stal. 



Myndus sordidipennis Stal. 



The species I have placed under this name is not uncommon about 

 moist springy spots in rich woods near Buffalo. All my specimens 

 differ from Stal's short and inadequate description in having the 

 abdomen more or less blackish fuscous. The elytra however agree 

 exactly and I believe my identification to be correct. 

 Myndus pictifrons St&l. 



This is another allied species with banded front, but it may be 

 readily separated from sordidipennis by the Ijrown vitta at the inner 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



apical angle of the elytra. About Buffalo it is less abundant than the 

 preceding. Mrs. Slosson has taken it in the Wliite Mountains. 



Of our other described species I have or have studied Slossoni and 

 viridis of Ball and radicis of Osborn. Slossoni and impiger Ball have 

 a brown front almost immaculate; in radicis the front is pale with a 

 basal fuscous band indicated, while viridis Ball and fulvus Osborn are 

 almost unicolorous insects. Cixius imputictatus Fitch is a Catonia.. 

 Myndus delicatus n. sp. 



Closely allied to sordidipennis, but a little smaller and paler. Vertex 

 a little narrower anteriorly, the sides almost parallel before the middle; 

 in sordidipennis these sides converge nearly to their apex ; black with a 

 broad longitudinal line toward the apex pale fulvous. Eyes black 

 with their inner edges slenderly pale. Front rounded ovate; yellowish 

 white with a black band across the base and apex; these bands a little 

 narrower than in the allied species; carinne on the apex of the head 

 pale, lower down on the front the lateral carinse become blackish 

 within. Clypeus soiled white. Pronotum about as wide as in the same 

 sex of sordidipennis] the hind edge more angularly emarginate and the 

 humeral angles more rounded; superior disk black with the slender 

 hind edge and median carina pale; sides pale slightly stained, the 

 deflected portion black more or less broadly bordered with pale; in 

 sordidipennis entirely pale in the specimens before me. Patagia 

 black, fuscous in its ally. Mesonotum black wdth its side compart- 

 ments invaded with ferruginous before, the small seutellum pale. 

 Elytra almost hyaline, slightly smoky at tip; nervures white dotted 

 with concolorous bristle-bearing pits; stigma whitish. Beneath 

 whitish, a little suffused with flavous on the venter. Apex of the 

 genital segment oblique, armed with a minute triangular ventral tooth ; 

 in sordidipennis this ventral tooth is larger with the adjoining margin 

 quite deeply excavated ; stiles undulated at base as in sordidipennis 

 but distally approximated to their rounded apex. In sordidipennis 

 most of the lower surface and genital pieces are black. Length 5 mm. 



Described from two male examples taken at Hot Springs, North 

 Carolina, by Mrs. Annie Trumbull Slosson. 



Subfamily ISSIDA. 



This subfamily is quite largely represented in our territory. I notice 

 here one new species taken by Mrs. Slosson in Florida and two western 

 forms. 

 Peltonotellus decoratus n. sp. 



Closely allied to simplex, but with the elytra and abdomen mostly 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'HIA. 493 



piccous black. Characters of the front, vertex, pro- and nicsonotum 

 almost exacdy as in simplex: the anterior etlge of the pronotuni is, 

 however, more regularly roiuided instead of forming an indistinct angle 

 at the inner corner of the eyes; the mesonotum is shorter with its lateral 

 posterior margins much less oblique and the pectoral (lap of the pro- 

 notuni is narrower and more transverse. Immediately below this 

 flap y)r()jects the inferior end of one of the pleural pieces; in decoraius 

 it.s sides are almost at right angles with the emarginated apex which 

 fits around the base of the intermediate coxa?; in simplex the hind edge 

 of this piece is oblique and the apex is scarcely sinuated; the next 

 adjoining piece is almost square in this new species but subtriangular 

 in sim.plex. 



Color fuscous deepened almost to ferruginous in the male in which 

 sex the elytra and al^domen are deep piceous black, almost blue-black 

 on the elytra, with the base of the abdomen and the apex of the genital 

 segments touched with fulvous. Legs fulvous with the tarsal claws 

 antl the line of fine bristles on the edges of the tibiae blackish; the 

 pustulate border of the front is also slightly infuscated. In the female 

 the general color is more flavous and this pale color is much more 

 extended over the abdomen and inner field of the elytra. 



In the characters of the male genitalia this species is quite distinct. 

 The ventral aspect of the genital segment is much shorter with the 

 valve small and triangular, not short and transverse as in simplex; 

 the plates (stiles of some authors) are much shorter and more rounded 

 and do not nearly attain the anal tube. In simplex the plates are 

 longer and thicker, are narrowed to an incurved pointed apex like the 

 strong stout claws of some birds, and in my specimens project almost 

 at right angles to the apex of the segment, and would about reach 

 the anal tube if depressed. 



Described from one male and three female examples taken at 

 Charlotte Harbor, Florida, by Mrs. Slosson. At first sight this looks 

 like a mere color variety of simplex, but the different form of the pro- 

 and mesonotum, pleural pieces and male genitalia as well as its very 

 distinct coloring will readily separate it. This species and simplex 

 differ from our three other known species, histrionicus Stal, rugosus 

 liall, and bivittatus Ball, in having a pale clypeus. 



t;cnus HYSTEROPTERUM A. and S. 



Hysteropterum cornutum Melichar. 



Dr. Melichar has described this species on p. 1-47 of his Monograph 

 of the Issida. His specimens were from California, but I found it 

 abundant in Utah and in Colorado west of the Continental Divide- 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Two other species of this genus have been described from this country : 

 auroreum Uhler and pundijerum Walk., the latter red escribed by Dr. 

 Uhler as aciculatum according to Melichar. 



Genus THIONIA St&l. 



This genus is well represented in Central and South America. Meli- 

 char enumerates the following from this country : 



Thionia simplex Germ. Recorded from Washington, D. C, to Texas. 

 I have taken it in Ohio. 



Thionia elliptica Germ. Recorded from Washington, D. C, to Mis- 

 souri. 



Thionia transversalis Mel. Recorded from "N. Am." 



Thionia hidlata Say. Recorded from New York to Georgia. I have 

 taken it in numbers at Niagara Falls and Gowanda, N. Y., and 

 Mr. Palmer took it in North Carolina. Melichar places Issus 

 conspcrsus Walker as a synonym. 



Thionia ocdlata Mel. Recorded from "N. Am." 



I add the following: 



Thionia producta n. sp. 



Form of naso Fowler, but smaller and less elongated. Vertex much ' 

 longer than broad, almost equally five-sided; the basal portion nearly 

 square, its sides slightly diverging anteriorly, the apical portion pro- 

 duced in an angle a little less than a right angle; sides carinate, hind 

 edge very feebly arcuated, surface flat with a feeble median carina at 

 apex. Front narrow, much longer than the head, a little narrower 

 toward the angulated base; apex deeply emarginate for the reception 

 of the clypeus; the three carinse distinct, acutely converging at base; 

 clypeus long, strongly convex with a prominent median carina. Pro- 

 notum shorter than the vertex, strongly advanced and rounded 

 anteriorly between the eyes, truncated behind, ecarinate, with two 

 impressed points on the disk. j\Iesonotum short, not longer than the 

 pronotum, its sides arcuated. Elytra narrower than in hullata with 

 the costa more angled and the apex more obtusely angled, not obliquely 

 truncated as in that species; venation typical of this genus. Wings 

 deeply cleft. Length 6 mm. 



Color dull testaceous, paler on the abdomen. Vertex and pronotum 

 mostly black with a broad median pale vitta; slender edges of the 

 pronotum and some marks behind the eyes also paler; front much 

 invaded with black on the base, sides and apex; clypeus darker, either 

 side with a few oblique lines; cheeks except at base and apex ivory 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



white; pleural flaps of the i)r()notuni white and pruinose below, above 

 black with a pale median cloud ; hind mar<2;in of the eyes pale. Scutel- 

 lura pale with the median line, basal angles and a short vitta on either 

 side black. Elytra with the longitudinal nervures and a broad vitta 

 following the inner margin of the scutellum to behind the middle, 

 black. Venter marked with black along the middle and sides. 



Described from one pair taken at Rifle, Colo., July 26, 1900. This 

 species and naso of Fowler present a new facies in this genus by their 

 produced vertex, but in every other respect they are true Thionias and 

 should doubtless be retained here. 



Subfamily ACANALOXIDA Stal. 



T can see no reason for uniting this subfamily with the Issida on one 

 hand or with the Flatida on the other. Four genera and ten species 

 have been recorded from our territory, but doubtless many others will 

 yet be found. 



Genus AMPHISCEPA Germ. 

 Amphisoepa pumila n. sp. 



Form nearly of Hysteropterum, much smaller than any other described 

 species; elytra almost semicircular in outline. Vertex very short, 

 rounded almost from the base to the front with no transverse carina 

 between the two; anterior and posterior margins parallel. Front 

 almost quadrate, the lower angles cut off in line with the sides of the 

 clypeus, the sides below a little expanded and reflexed; base of the 

 clypeus strongly angled, reaching almost to the line of the antennae. 

 Pronotum short, broadly rounded before, almost straight behind. 

 Elytra but little longer than broad, somewhat tumid toward the base, 

 the costa semicircularly rounded, the whole surface rather closely but 

 not very distinctly reticulated. Length 4 mm.; of the elytra 3 mm.; 

 width of the elytra 2^ mm. 



Color soiled brownish testaceous a little tinged with green, paler 

 beneath, commissural and apical margins of the elytra faintly dotted 

 with brownish; tumid basal part of the elytra with a piceous spot. 

 Spines of posterior tibiae tipped with black. 



Described from a single example taken by Mrs. Slosson at Biscayne 

 Bay, Florida. 



I have not yet seen Germar's description of this genus, but evidently 

 It was founded for his malina, which Stal places as a synonym of Flata 

 hivittata Say, published the same year. In three places where Stal 

 mentions this genus he places it in the Issida and states that the hind 

 tibiae are unispinose, but in this he is certainly mistaken, as pointed out 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



by Melichar. In this genus the head is broader than in Acanalonia, but 

 the longer scutellum and broad vertical reticulated elytra seem to ally 

 it most closely with Acanalonia and I follow Melichar in placing it with 

 that genus. Through a clerical error Melichar has credited this genus 

 to Say instead of Germar. 



Genus ACANALONIA Spinola. 

 Acanalonia olypeata n. sp. 



Allied to viresccns Stal but a little smaller with much narrower elytra. 

 Vertex horizontal, longitudinally a little concave; slightly conical 

 before, a little more so than in virescens, but with its length distinctlj' 

 less than its width between the eyes; passage to the front rounded. 

 Front broad, much shortened by the encroachment of the broad trun- 

 cated base of the clypeus, which reaches above the lower line of the 

 eyes; base tumid, sides well rounded, less angled than in virescens _ 

 Clypeus very large, transversely tumid, polished. Pro- and mesono- 

 tum about as in viresccns, ecarinate. Elytra as long as in virescens 

 but much narrower, their length twice their greatest width which is at 

 about the basal fourth, then narrowed and a little sinuated or subparal- 

 lel to the feebly rounded apex; longitudinal venation strong, reticula- 

 tions weak and somewhat coarser than in virescens. Wings as long as 

 the elytra; whitish hyaline or a little infuscated, with prominent ner- 

 vures. Length 7 mm. to the tip of the closed elytra; width across the 

 elytra 3 mm. 



Color pale greenish yellow tinged with testaceous on the clypeus; 

 eyes brown; tarsi tinged with rufous; apical spines of the posterior 

 tibiae and antennal setaj black. Elytra pale pea-green becoming 

 whitish along the base of the costa and with the marginal nervure 

 about the apex very slenderly brown. 



Described from a single male example taken at St. George, Utah, 

 in July, by Prof. H. F. Wickham. This species is very near to deli- 

 catula Fowler, but the elytra are still narrower, the vertex is shorter 

 and not separated from the front by a carina, and there are no dis- 

 cernible carinee on the mesonotum. The large oval and tumid clypeus 

 and narrow elytra are good characters for distinguishing this species. 



Subfamily FLATIDA Stal. 

 Genus CYARDA Walker. 

 Cyarda Melichari VanDuzee. 



A fine series of Cyardas from Florida received from Mrs. Slosson has 

 enabled me to correct one other error of determination in my Jamaica 

 list. The Florida specimens there mentioned under Cyarda were of 




1907.] NATURAL SCIEXCKS OF IM II LADIOLI'fllA . 497 



Mdichdri {puiictiila Walk, of McliclKuj, l>ut tliose from Jamaica were 

 probably the acuminipennis Spinola. Tlie Icngtli given by Spinola is 

 about 8 mm., which corresponds with my Jamaican material. In this 

 Jamaican species there is a blackish cloud beneath and behind the 

 elytral hump, the anterior side of which is piceous; and the elytra are 

 subfalcate at apex, which is cut off ()l)li(iucly and a little arcuated; the 

 vertex is longer and less deeply sculj)turetl than in Mdichari and the 

 base of the front is piceous brown. 



In these Florida specimens ol MeUchari the apex of the elytra is 

 narrower, wedge shaped and subacute; the costa is more abruptly 

 expanded at base and the disk wants the infuscation found in the 

 other species. Here the base of the front is scarcely if at all darker. 

 I cannot accept Melichar's synonymy of Walker's species he places 

 under acuminipennis, conformis, and punctata. 



Genus FLATOIDES (iuer. 

 Flatoides fusous n. sp. 



Form of Flatoides scabrosus Alclichar; dull blackish fuscous, disk of 

 the elytral areoles and all beneath pale yellowish brown. Length 

 10 mm. ; width across the elytra 4^ mm. 



Vertex a little more than one-half as long as the width between the 

 eyes, disk depressed, anterior margin quite regularly rounded. Front 

 a little longer than broad, narrowed toward the base, sides broadly 

 reflexed, moderately rounded, basal and clypeal margins parallel, 

 almost rectilinear; clypeus long triangular, a little convex. Pronotum 

 strongly rounded before between the eyes, of equal length across its 

 whole width, the discal plate formed by the strong curved lateral 

 carinse semicircular with the hind edge rather deeply arcuated. Meso- 

 notum lozenge shaped, the sides nearly equal, anterior angle rounded, 

 carinse obscure. Elytra about twice longer than broad, costa straight 

 and parallel with the connnissure, apex regularly rounded ; costal mem- 

 brane twice wider than the costal areole, broader toward the base 

 where it projects moderately in a rounded lobe; crossed by numerous 

 transverse veins; all the nervures h(^a\-v, those of the disk irregular; 

 toward the apex with two transverse lines, the inner indistinct and 

 irregular; the subbase with a strong l)lackish tubercle. Plates of the 

 male genital segment long triangular, approximate at base within. 



Color blackish fuscous covered with a grey mealy tomentimi which 

 obscures the neuration and other characters; indefinite disk of the 

 vertex and pronotum. marginal n(>rvuro and disk of all the areoles of 

 the elytra and all beneath dull yellowish brown; base of the front with 

 a blackish band which cros.ses the sides of the face and inferior flap of 

 33 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the pronotum; basal joint of the antennae brown with a pale tip; 

 clypeus tinged with ferruginous, darker toward the apex; anterior 

 and intermediate legs, middle pleural pieces and disk of the ventral 

 segments clouded with darker brown. Wings smoky with strong 

 fuscous nervures. 



Described from one male and two female examples labelled "Colo- 

 rado Desert" and received from Prof. J. B. Smith. In this species the 

 elytra are moderately convex and are held at an angle of about 45 

 degrees. This species is very close "to scabrosus Mel., but the vertex is 

 shorter, the colors very different and the elytral nervures stronger 

 and more irregular. These species are not characteristic of this genus 

 and are intermediate between it and Dascalia. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLI'JIIA. 499 



NEW CLAUSILIIDiE OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE-XI. 

 ^^Y HKXRY A. I'lLSliKV. 



The present ])aper^ deals chiefly with species of the Ryukyu Islands 

 and Formosa, and especially with an interesting series of very small 

 Clausilicc relat(Ml to Zaph/x. This series no\v comprises some twenty- 

 nine species, all but one of them discovered by Mr. Hirase and his 

 assistants. No member of tlie Zaptychoid group has been recognized 

 in Cliina. All are insular; and being among the most specialized of 

 all Clausilia^ in structure, they indicate a greater antiquity for the 

 Ryukyuan fauna than zoogeographers have generally been disposed 

 to atlmit. 



Section MEGAL(3PH.T:r)USA Btt-. 

 Clausilia martensi concrescens n. subsp. 



In this form the spaces between the palatal plica) are filled up, 

 making a straight lunella with slightly uneven edge. Cuticle greenish 

 yellow. Length 35, diam. 8.5 to 9 mm. 



Shishikui, Awa, Shikoku Island. Types No. 90,044, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,189 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



Section LUCHUPHJ^DUSA Pils. 



To the nine species of this section already known two are now to 

 be added. 

 Clausilia inolyta n. sp. PI. XXXII, figs. 1-4. 



Shell rather slender, gradually and regularly tapering from the 

 penultimate whorl to the small apex; extremely thick and solid ; grayish 

 white, being denuded of cuticle throughout; very coarsely sculptured icitk 

 Htrong straight rounded ribs nearly as wide as their intervals, about 24 

 or 25 in number on the last whorl, and not coarser on its back. Whorls 

 about 11, moderately convex, the last smaller than the penultimate, 

 its last half compressed. Aperture small, vertical, ]:)ii-iform ; peristome 



* This is the eleventh paper treating exclusively of Japanese Clausiliidaj col- 

 lected by Mr. Hinvse. Seven of them appeared under tlie title "Additions to 

 tlie Japanese Land Snail Fauna," the rest under various titles. A list of them 

 is appended to this paper. In all 10,5 pages, and 31 plates containing 535 figures 

 drawn by tlie author, have been published. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMV OF [DeC, 



Isabella-tinted, thick, well expanded and slightly refllexed; the parietal 

 viargin cut into one or several rounded tubercles, the peristome elsewhere 

 smooth. Superior lamella marginal, suhvertical, thick at its end, 

 thin within and continuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates 

 past the aperture to the left side. Inferior lamella thick but not in 

 the least doubled, forming a prominent fold in the mouth, very strongly 

 spiral within, becoming horizontal and very strong a half whorl inward, 

 then abruptly diminishing, penetrating as far as the spiral lamella. 

 Suhcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, penetrating inward as 

 far as the other lamella^. Principal plica not long, latero-ventral. No 

 upper palatal plica. Lower palatal plica long, oblique and arcuate, a 

 N'ery oblique, long lunella rising from it near the middle, and curved 

 inwards somewhat at the upper end. 



Ijength 26, diam. 6, length of aperture 6.2 nun. 



The clausilium (PL XXXII, figs. 3, 4) is well curved, the columellar 

 margin straight, strengthened by a rib which terminates in a straight 

 finger-like apical process; palatal margin arcuate. 



Ogimi, prov. Kunchan, Ryukyu (Okinawa). Types No. 89,890 

 A. N. S. P., from No. 1,347 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is more coarsely sculptured than any other known Luchuphce- 

 dusa, and is further distinguished by the very long lunella, as in C. 

 lokunoshimana, and the absence of an upper palatal plica, present in 

 the other species. The clausilium has most resemblance to that of 

 C. mi ma. 



In quite mature individuals the sculpture is largely worn from the 

 ventral face of the shell, as shown in the figure. 

 Clausilia koniyaensis n. sp. PI. XXXII, figs. 5-S. 



Shell fusiform, the pciuiltimate whorl widest, pale straw-yellow, glossy, 

 •closely and evenly striate, the striir usually a little more si)aced on the 

 back of the last whorl. Whorls 9^, slightly convex, the last com- 

 pressed laterally, convex below. Aperture small, piriform, the 

 peristome white, refiexed and somewhat tliickened, the parietal margin 

 weakly, irregularly crenulated. Superior lamella marginal, con- 

 tinuous with the spiral lamella, which penetrates past the ventral to 

 the left side. Inferior lamella more or less distinctly double, forming 

 two contiguous columellar folds; as long inside as the spiral lamella. 

 Subcolumellar lamella emerging to the lip-edge, but rather weak; as 

 long inside as the other lamella\ Principal plica lateral, about a lialf 

 whorl long. Upper palatal jjlica rather short and very oblique. 

 Lower palatal plica long, strong and arcuate, a rather long, oblique 

 lunella rising from it in the middle. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



TiOngtli 14.8-1 o.;>, (liaiii. I iniii. 



'Uw clausiliiiin (I'l. X.XXIl, figs. 6, 7) is much twisted, tapering 

 and ac'uniinatc distally, with a notch between the thick terminal 

 point and a smaller point on the palatal side, a short distance from 

 the apex. 



Koniya, Oshiina. Osunii, Types Xo. 94,.')43, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 054<? of .Mr. lliraso'.s Collection. 



This snail is nnicli like C. mima Pils., also of Oshima, but it is 

 slightly larger and more strongly rib-striate, the inferior lamella is 

 usually distinct ly double, the subcolumellar lamella is less dilated below 

 the lower palatal ])lica, and finally the shape of the clausilium is very 

 different, as may be seen by comparing the figures here given with 

 figs. 17, 18 of Plate 22 of these Proceedings for 1901. C. koniyaensis 

 also resembles C. tokunoshimana, but differs in the shape of the clausi- 

 lium, the less coarse sculpture, more lateral lunella, etc. 



Zaptyciioid phylum. 



Numerous new species and groups of this phylum were discussed in 

 the preceding paper of this series, but the modifications of internal 

 armature and clausilium seem to be interminable, and a number of 

 peculiar additional forms must now^ be described. These require an 

 amplification and various modifications of the key to sections previously 

 given. The key given below is designed to show the natural relation- 

 ships of the groups so far as they are now understood. 



Key to the Sections of Zaptychoid Clausili^. 



I. — Lunella normally developed, lateral, oblique, above united with 



or contiguous to the upper palatal plica, which varies from 



ver)^ long to short or even wanting, but when present this 



plica projects inward ])eyond the upper end of the lunella. 



Clausilium entire and rounded distally, or rarely nuicronate. 



a. — Inferior lamella receding, inconspicuous or invisible from in 



front, obliquely ascending and straightened within the 



back of the last whorl. Remote from the superior lamella. 



h. — Shell without sutural plica?, fulcrum or parallel lamella. 



c. — Clausilium parallel-sided, flattened, rounded at the end. 



Section Hemizaptyx. 

 c'. — Clausilium swollen and callous outside near the palatal 

 margin, either angular or rounded at the end. 



Section II eterozaptyx. 

 /('.— Shell thin; sutiu'al plica^, fulcrum and parallel lamella 

 developed. Distal end of the clausilium rounded. 



Section Zaptyx. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



a\ — Inferior lamella ascending in a broad spiral curve within the 



last whorl, approaching the superior lamella. 



h. — Clausilium strongly tapering to the angular or narrowly 



rounded apex, not buttressed externally; fulcrum present ; 



sutural plica; weak or wanting, Section Stereozaptyx. 



b^. — Clausilium tapering to the blimtly angular apex, buttressed 



outside by an erect transverse plate; no sutural plica? 



or fulcrum; inferior lamella receding, 



Section Parazaptyx. 



U'. — Clausiliiun wide distally, the apex rounded; smooth outside. 



Shell thin, sutural plica? developed; inferior lamella 



approaching the superior in the aperture as a thin fold. 



Section Metazaptyx. 

 IT. — The lunella arises from the middle of a long, arched lower palatal 

 plica, and curves inward at its upper end; superior lamella 

 developed or wanting; inferior lamella spirally ascending 

 within ; sutural plica?, fulcrum and parallel lamella developed 

 Clausilium short, deeply notched on the palatal side near the 



apex, Section Oligozaptyx. 



III. — The upper palatal plica is ver}'^ long, an extremely short lunella 

 branching from near its inner end; inferior lamella spirally 

 ascending within; superior lamella and sutural plica? devel- 

 oi)ed. Clausilium notched on the palatal side near the apex, 



Section Diceratoptyx. 



I\'. — The lunella is merely a continuation oblicjuely downwards of the 



"inner end of the upper palatal plica, and its position is ventral 



in known species ; no sutural or lower palatal plica? or fulcrum ; 



inferior lamella receding, vertical below, then bent to the 



left within the back of the last whorl. Palatal margin of the 



clausilium more or less excised below the middle. 



a. — Peristome entire, the apertiire normally clausilioid; upj^er 



palatal plica and lunella together much shorter ikan the 



principal plica, Section Selenoptyx. 



a^. Peristome widely interrupted; shell imperforate, not in the 

 least rimate; the upper palatal plica with the lunella forms 

 a very long, slightly bowed fold, subparallel to the principal 

 plica, but diverging downward towards the inner end, 



Section Thaumatoptyx. 



Section HETEROZAPTYX Pils. 



Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 730, footnote. 



Shell like Hemizaptyx; the upper palatal plica either short (as in 

 Zaptyz) or very long, approaching the aperture, and sometimes it is 

 interrupted. The clausilium is deeply excised on the coluraellar 

 side at the filament, callous and sivollen outside near the palatal margin, 

 and either acuminate or rounded at the end. Type C. nnams {Hetero- 

 zaptyx, unlike Zaptyx). 




l'.)(»7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



'l\\v two s[)e('ic.s ul" this <;i-()U|) liithciin known were referred to 

 Ilemizaptyx as a second division {Proc. A. N . S. Phila., 1904, p. 825); 

 l)ut the discovery of more species with the same type of clausilium 

 makes it expedient to recognize the group by name. It is closely 

 related to Ilcniizaptyx in shell features, but dilTers in the peculiar 

 swell and callus along the outside of the clausilium near its palatal 

 l^order. 



The species now known are as follows : 



1. — Clausilium rather long, acuminate at the apex, which is a little 



hooked backward. 



a. — Upper palatal plica interrupted, a short portion being situated 



at the top of the lunella and a long one in the back of the 



last whorl, visible in the mouth. Formosa, C. diacoptyx. 



a*. — Upper palatal plica very long, extending nearly to the lip. 



Clausilium unknown. Formosa, . . . C uraniscoptyx. 



a-. — Upp(n- palatal plica short; shell striate. 



h. — Shell dark reddish-brown, glossy, and rather thin, 10 to 11 

 mm. long, 2 to 2.3 wide, with 1% whorls; sides of the 

 clausilium strongly reflexed. Tokunoshima, 



C. hyperaptyx. 

 ¥. — Shell pale chestnut or browmish corneous, rather thin, 11 to 

 13 mm. long, 2.7 wdde, with 9 to 10^ whorls; clausilium 

 distinctly hooked at the apex. Oshima, C. oxypomatica. 

 h-. — Shell browm or yellowish-brown, quite solid when adult, 12 

 to 15 mm. long, 3 to 3.6 wide, with 9 to 10 whorls. Clausi- 

 lium distinctly hooked at the apex. Oshima, C. munus. 

 1 1 . — Clausilium short, very wide distally, w'here it is broadly rounded 

 and recurved at the edge. Upper palatal plica very long, 

 approaching the aperture. Keraina-jima, Ryukyu, 



C. longiplicata. 

 CUusilia hyperaptyx ViU. 



Proc. A. N. S. Piiila., 1904, p. 827. 



The clausilium (PI. XXXII, fig. 10), seen from the palatal side, is 

 licre figured, to show the imusual wddth of the reflexed palatal margin. 

 The terminal hook is much less developed than in C. oxypomatica 

 [hyperaptyx, with no fold al)Ove). 



Clausilia munus Pils. 



Proc. A. N. S. Pliila., 1901, p. vn. 



The clausilium is here figured (PI. XXXIT, figs. 11, 12) from the 

 type specimen. It is conspicuously angular at the apex, which is 

 decidedly thickened, and in profile view is seen to be hooked back- 

 ward. The columellar margin is regularly arcuate, bordered by a 

 thickened rim. The palatal margin is rather strongly convex in the 

 middle, and above the middle it is very iiiucli thickened outside, as 




504 ' - PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



shown in the profile view. In some specimens it has a concavity in 

 the inner face corresponding to the external callus. The main cur- 

 vature of the clausilium is not far from the origin of the filament; 

 elsewhere it is nearly straight in profile view. 



In specimens from Ikejijima, Oshima, the external callosity referred 

 to is weak. In those from Koniya, Oshima, the clausilium is typical. 

 The shells from this place are more delicate, thinner than the types of 

 C. munus {muniis, a gift). 

 Clausilia diacoptyx n. sp. PI. XXXIII, figs. 13-19. 



Shell fusiform, the apex rather obtuse, whorls 8 to 9, moderately 

 convex, the last tapering downwards. Surface glossy, smooth, 

 faintly striatiilate, the last whorl rib-striate for a short distance 

 behind the outer lip. Pale greenish corneous, somewhat transparent. 

 Aperture ovate, the lip well reflexed and thick. Superior lamella 

 marginal, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is high in the 

 lateral region, and extends inward to a point above the superior lamella. 

 Inferior lamella deeply receding, straightened and obliquely ascending 

 within, shorter than the spiral lamella, or equal to it. Subcolumellar 

 lamella strongly emerging to the lip-edge, a groove with raised margins 

 on each side of it. Principal plica somewhat more than a half whorl 

 long, dorsal and lateral, approaching the lip. Upper palatal plica 

 consisting of two portions, the inner portion short, across the top of 

 the straight, lateral lunella, the other portion widely separated from 

 it, dorsal, visible in the mouth, long, and diverging forward a little 

 from the principal plica. 



I.ength 10, diam. 2.3 mm. 

 8.8 " 2.3 " 



The clausilium (PI. XXXIIl, figs. 15, 16, 17) is rather long with 

 snbparallel margins, the columellar margin aljrupth^ excised above, then 

 straight, and near the apex strongly curved towards the palatal margin. 

 The apex is curved toward the palatal margin and then outward in an 

 acute point, separated from the palatal side by a rather deep excision, 

 which is scarcely apparent in a front view, ])ut is conspicuous in a 

 profile view from the palatal side. The palatal margin is thick and 

 sliglitly arched. 



Sammaipo, Taiwan (Formosa). Types No. 89,896, A. N. S. P., 

 from No. 1,430 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is probably related to C. uraniscoptyx Schm. and Bttg., 

 from Bankimtsong, Formosa, but unfortunately the clausilium of 

 that species has not been described. The present form differs from 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PlIILADKLPIIIA. 505 



that (Icscrilx'd by Scluiiackt'r mikI Boci t.<;(M- hy its broadly interrupted 

 upper palatrU plica and the iioii-ascciidiuj:; last whorl. 



Clausilia oxypomatica ". ^-i)- I'l. XXXIII, fi^s. 20 24. 



Shell cylindric-fusiforin, attenuated towards the rather acute apex, 

 pale chestnut or brownish corneous, slightly transparent, the old shells 

 opaque, very finely but not deeply striate, more coarsely so on the 

 last half whorl. Whorls 9 to 10^, but slightly convex, the last com- 

 pressetl laterally, the base tapering. Aperture rhombic-ovate. Peris- 

 tome expanded and reflexed, rather narrow and not much thickened 

 except in old shells; parietal wall free, emarginate above the superior 

 lamella. The superior lamella is vertical, marginal, thin but rather 

 high, continuous with the spiral lamella, which is very high in the 

 lateral position, and penetrates to a point above the superior lamella. 

 The inferior lamella recedes deeply, is straight and oblique within the 

 last w'horl, and penetrates inward less deeply than the spiral lamella. 

 The subcolumellar lamella emerges. Principal plica more than a half 

 whorl long, dorsal and lateral, approaching the aperture. Upper 

 palatal plica thin but moderately long, with the lunella forming a 

 T-shaped barrier. 



Length 13, diam. 2.7 nmi. 

 " 11, " 2.7 " 



The clausilium (PI. XXXIII, figs. 21, 22, 23) is not much curved, but 

 is quite concave internally and convex or somewhat baggy externally. 

 The columellar side is very deeply excised at the filament. The two 

 sides are about equally arcuate, the apex somew^hat acuminate and 

 projecting, as though a drop were hanging there. There is a rib inside 

 along the columellar margin, and a more diffuse callus on the outside 

 along the palatal margin. 



Oshima, Osumi. Types No. 89,889, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,336 of 

 Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species falls into the second division (II) of my key to Ilemi- 

 zaptyx {Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1904, p. 825). It differs from both the 

 species of that division (C. hijpcraptyx and C. yyiuniis) in having the 

 upper palatal plica somewhat longer, the lunella joining it in the 

 middle. It is thinner and more slender than C. muniis, larger, wider, 

 paler and less sharply striate than C. In/pcraptyx {oxypomalicus, having 

 a sharp li<l or "clausilium"). 



At Koniya, Oshima, there is a variety of C. munus more delicate 

 than the type lot, the shell usually somewhat smaller and more slender. 

 It is this i'oi-ni which approaches C. oxypomatica. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Clausilia longiplicata ri. sp. Pl. XXXIII, figs. 25-29. 



Shell cylindric-fusiform, strong, light yellowish brown, sul)trans- 

 parent except when old, when it becomes opaque. Surjace very 

 smooth and glossy, as if varnished, marked with faint growth-lines only. 

 Whorls 8^, moderately convex, the last a little compressed laterally, 

 pinched into a short low and rounded basal crest. Aperture rhombic- 

 ovate, the white peristome a little expanded and narrowly reflexCd, 

 thickened in old shells. Superior lamella high and compressed, continu- 

 ous with the spiral lamella which is also exceptionally high, and con- 

 tinues inward to a point above the sinulus. Inferior lamella receding, 

 low but strong and callous within, at first vertically ascending, then 

 abruptly bent to the left, after which it ascends vertically again, 

 abruptly becoming low on the ventral side, and much shorter there 

 than the spiral lamella. Subcolumellar lamella very slender, emerging 

 to the lip-edge, bounded by grooves. Principal plica dorsal and 

 lateral, extending nearly to the lip. Upper palatal plica ver-y long, 

 parallel to the principal plica on the side, but diverging from it on the 

 back, where it approaches the lip, and is seen conspicuously in the 

 mouth. Lunella lateral, very oblique, slightly arcuate, tapering 

 towards the ends, not reaching the upper palatal plica, or but weakly 

 joining it. There is no lower palatal plica. Sutural plica^ and fulcrum 

 are absent. 



Length 11, diam. 2.9 mm. 

 '' 10, " 2.3 " 

 '' 10, " 2.6 '' 



The clausilium (PI. XXXIII, figs. 25, 26) is very short, spatulate, 

 being broad and rounded distally. It is excised near the filament as 

 usual in Zaptychoid clausilice; near the distal end it bulges inward, and 

 has a corresponding concavity on the outer face. It is somewhat 

 calloused along the palatal margin. 



Keraraa-jima, Ryukyu. Types No. 89,892, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,361 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This peculiar snail resembles C. agna in its general form and brilliant 

 gloss, but differs widely in internal structure. The long upper palatal 

 plica reminds one of C. dolichoptyx, but that species is in everything 

 else a true Zaptyx. The long upper palatal plica and short lunella 

 suggest Dicerotoptyx, which, however, differs by the shape of the 

 inferior lamella, the different clausilium, etc. C. uraniscoptyx of For- 

 mosa differs from longiplicata by its ascending last whorl {longipli- 

 catus, long-folded, in allusion to the long upper palatal plica). 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



Soction ZA['TVX Pil.s. 



The following .species enlarges our conceptions of Znplijx \)X a stiuc- 

 tiire not before known in the section; the upper palatal plica being 

 greatly lengthened, as in IlcUrozapti/x, while in the oth(>r known 

 species of Zapti/x it is comparatively short. 

 Clausilia dolichoptyx n. &p. PI. XXXIV. 30-33. 



Shell slender, fusiform-turrited, chestnut-brown, rather opaque, 

 shining; the spire long, tapering and somewhat attenuate, apex obtuse, 

 whitish. Whorls 9^ to 10, convex, very slowly increasing, irregularly 

 striatulate or marked with growth-wrinkles. Aperture narrowly 

 piriform, small; the peristome white, continuous, narrow^ly expanded, 

 the outer lip a little reflexed. The superior lamella is very small or 

 subohsoletc; the spiral lamella is reduced to a very small, short lamella in the 

 region of the lunella. The inferior lamella recedes deeply, being hardly 

 visible in the aperture; in the back it ascends obliquely, is low, rather 

 thick and straightened, not continuous with a short portion which 

 lies parallel to the short spiral lamella. There is a fulcrum and a 

 parallel lamella. The subcolumellar lamella is usually quite immersed, 

 but sometimes emerges. The principal plica is short, about a fourth 

 of a whorl long, and in a lateral position. The upper palatal plica is 

 very long, the lunella joined to it near its inner end ; thence it diverges 

 from the principal plica, running towards the aperture. The lunella 

 is long and nearly straight. Two short sutural plicre stand above 

 the lunella. 



Length 12.5, diam. 3, length of aperture 2.5 mm. 

 " 10.5 " 2.5, " " " 2 " 



Clausilium (PI. XXXIV, figs. 31, 32) with the curvature chiefly near 

 the filament, as usual in Zaptyx; very wide above, tapering distally, 

 rounded at the apex. It is deeply excised on the columellar side of 

 the filament, and much dilated on the palatal side. 



Heda, Kunchan, Ryukyu. Types No. 90,020, A. N. S. P., from 

 No. 1,3-12 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This species is readily recognized by the very long upper palatal 

 plica, the small superior lamella very widely separated from the short 

 spiral lamella, and the number of whorls, which is greater than in the 

 other species. With the exception of the upper palatal plica, the 

 structure is not unlike that of C. hirasei, the type of Zaptyx {dolichoptyx, 

 long fold). 



Clausilia dolichoptyx miora n. subsp. 



Shell smaller than C. dolichoptyx, nearly smooth except the last half 




508 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



whorl, which is sharply and finely striate, whorls 8 to 8J. Superior 

 lamella well developed ; subcolumellar lamella emerging. 



Length 9.5, diam. 2.3 mm. 

 8.5 " 2 " 



Heda, Kunchan. Types No. 90,021, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,843 

 of Mr. Ilirase's collection. 

 Clausilia hyperoptyx Pils. 



Specimens from Heanza-jima, Kunchan, are smaller than the types, 

 8 to 9 mm. long. They have the upper palatal plica rather long. 



A series from Sezoko-jima, Kunchan, consists in part of typical 

 hyperoptyx, in part of densely striate specimens which would be refer- 

 able to yaeyamensis, from which they differ only in the slightly finer 

 striation. 



The study of these specimens causes me to reduce C. yaeyamensis to a 

 variety of C. hyperoptyx. It differs only in the striation, and in show- 

 ing the inferior lamella somewhat more conspicuously as a thin fold, 

 in an oblique view in the mouth. In hyperoptyx this lamella recedes 

 more. The superior and spiral lamella? are weakly continuous (hyper- 

 optyx, fold above) . 



Section STEREOZAPTYX Pilsbry. 



Shell Zaptychoid, with the inferior lamella strongly spiral within, 

 thick at its base, w^iich recedes more or less ; spiral lamella weak and 

 low; lunella well developed; a nodular fulcrum present; sutural plica? 

 weak or al^sent. Clausilium well curved, wide above, strongly taper- 

 ing to the angular or narrowly rounded apex, abruptly excised on the 

 columellar side at the origin of the filament. 



This section differs from Parazaptyx and Metazaptyx in the calloused 

 columellar or inferior lamella, which in both of the others is thin and 

 high. It further differs from Parazaptyx in lacking a transverse rib 

 on the clausilium, and from Metazaptyx by the strongly tapering distal 

 end of the clausilium; that of Metazaptyx Iseing wide distally. In 

 the species now known the superior and spiral lamella? are not con- 

 tinuous. 



Clausilia entospira Pil^'. PI. XXXII, fig. 9. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1901, p. 64.3. 

 A figure is here given to show the internal structure, and especially 

 the fulcrum (/.), which was overlooked when I first described the 

 species. It has been found only on Tanega-shima. Additional 

 specimens received agree with the types. It is a rare snail {entospira, 

 spiral within). 




1007.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PIIILA DELPHI A. 509 



Clausilia exulaiis n ^i'. IM. X.\\l\'. Tiks. ^o. 11, 42. 



Shell fusifonn, the spire attenuated above, rather thin, glossy, 

 yellowish or brownish corneous, somewhat ti-ansparent except when 

 old. Whorls 9 to 9^, the earlier, atteiuiated ones quite convex, the 

 lai-iier later ones less so, the last whorl tapering, laterally flattened, 

 shortly free in front. Surface weakly striatulate, the last whorl 

 becoming strongly evenly striate on the back, rounded below. Aper- 

 ture small, piriform-ovate, the peristome expanded and reflexed, rather 

 thin. Superior lamella small, short and thin, broadly separated from 

 the small, low and short spiral lamella. Inferior lamella deeply 

 receding, appearing as a doubly nodular fold in an oblique view in the 

 mouth. Inside it is strongly spiral, low, thin, with a callous nodule 

 below ; above it becomes strong and high ; not continued parallel to the 

 spiral lamella, and therefore not nearly so deeply penetrating. The 

 subcolumcllar lamella emerges. There is a nodule-like fulcrum. 

 Principal plica about a half whorl long, extending from the middle of 

 the dorsal to the middle of the ventral side. Upper palatal plica 

 small and short. Lunella very strong and high, subvcntral, slightly 

 arcuate. There is a small sutural plica. 



Length 11. 7, diam. 2.25, length of aperture 2.25 mm. 



10, " 2 mm. 



11, " 2.3 " 



Clausilium (PI. XXXIV, figs. 40, 41) strongly arcuate, deeply and 

 abruptly excised on the columellar side of the filament; wide above, 

 strongly tapering to the apex, which though narrow is rounded. The 

 palatal side is dilated near the filament. The filament is deeply 

 inserted in the middle of the penultimate whorl. 



Nase, Oshima, Osumi. Types No. 89,888, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,335 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This form is closely related to C. entospira of Tanega-shima. It is 

 a more lengthened, slenderer shell than that, with more whorls; it is 

 much thinner, and there is a weak upper palatal plica, not present in 

 the other; finally, the aperture projects farther forward. 



Section OLIGOZAPTYX Pilshry. 

 Clausilia hedleyi hyperodonta n. subsp. 



Similar to C. hcdlcyi, but it differs in having a superior lamella 

 distinctly developed. Varying in size from 

 Length 9.5, diam. 2 mm., to 



" 7.5, " 1.7 " 

 Koniya, Oshima. Types No. 90,019, A. N. S. P., from No. 1,202a 

 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Section SELENOPTYX nov. 



Shell with the oblique ventral lunella and the upper palatal plica 

 united into a continuous crescentic barrier, the convex side of the 

 crescent inward and upward; otherwise like Hemizaptyx. Clausilium 

 excised on the colurnellar side at the filament. Palatal border 

 reflexed, the lower half more or less excised. Type C. noviluna. 



This group is unlike any other in palatal armature, the inner end of 

 the upper palatal plica passing directly into the oblique lunella, forming 

 a crescent which may be somewhat angular in the middle. This is 

 ventrally or latero-ventrally situated, and except in old, opaque shells 

 is visible through the front of the shell. The inferior lamella is remote 

 from the superior, not visible in a front view, vertical within, with a 

 bend to the left in the middle. The clausilium is peculiar. 

 Clausilia noviluna n. sp. PI. XXXIV, figs. 34-39. 



Shell fusiform, attenuate above. Whorls about lOJ, the upper ones 

 convex, the last flattened laterally. Surface glossy, brown, densely 

 and very finely striate throughout, the striation not coarser on the last 

 whorl. Aperature rhombic-ovate, the peristome expanded, thick. 

 The superior lamella is slightly oblique, thin and rather high, marginal, 

 continuous with the spiral lamella which is very low within the back, 

 but high ventrally, penetrating past the aperture. The inferior 

 lamella recedes deeply, is flattened and ascends vertically within the 

 back, then bends abruptly to the left, and finally ascends again. It 

 is not continued parallel to the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar 

 lamella emerges. It is weak throughout. The principal plica is more 

 than a half whorl long, dorsal and lateral extending nearly to the 

 aperture. The upper palatal plica is of moderate length, inwardly 

 continuous with the obliquely descending lunella, which is latero- 

 ventral in position. There are no accessory lamellae or plica?. 



Length 10.7, diam. 2.8 mm. 

 8.5 " 2.3 " 



The clausilium (PI. XXXIV, figs. 34, 35, 36) is abruptly excised on 

 the colurnellar side of the filament. In the middle of the palatal 

 margin there is a backwardly projecting point or angle of the recurved 

 margin, below which the edge is notched and irregular. 



Iheya-jima, Ryukyu. Types No. 90,046, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1,356 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This curious little snail is related to the following species, having the 

 same kind of palatal plica and lunella, completely united into a single 

 curved barrier {noviluna, new moon, in allusion to the narrow, curved 

 lunella). 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Clausilia inversiluna n. sp. PI. XXXIV. fiits. 43. 14. 



Shell fusiform. Ilic lower half rather obese, the spire rapidly tapering, 

 and strongly utteniuitod above. Whorls 9 to lOV, the upper ones 

 quite convex, the lower less so, last whorl tapering, laterally flattened. 

 Surface brown, shining, striatulate, the last whorl very finely and 

 densely striate. Aperture rhombic-ovate, the peristome reflexed, 

 thick, pale brownish. Superior lamella marginal, sul)vertical, becom- 

 ing very low inside, where it is w'eakly continuous with the spiral 

 lamella, which becomes high within the ventral side, and penetrates 

 past the sinulus to the middle of the left side. The inferior lamella 

 recedes deeply. Within the back it is thick and ascends vertically, 

 then bends inward, but is notcontinued on thcpenultimate whorl parallel 

 to the spiral lamella. The subcolumellar lamella emerges. The prin- 

 cipal plica is three-fourths of a whorl long, extending from near the 

 lip to a point above the sinulus. The upper palatal plica is of mod- 

 erate length, and inwardly is continuous with the slightly shorter 

 lunella, which is exactly ventral in position and descends obliquely 

 inward, to the peristome just above the superior lamella. 

 Length 11.8, diam. 2.8 mm. 

 10, " 2.8 " 

 10, " 2.6 " 

 The clausilimn (PI. XXXIV, fig. 44) is rather wide above, excised 

 at the origin of the filament, on the columellar side; it tapers distally 

 to a narrow, rounded apex, near w^hich it is concave on the palatal side. 

 Both sides are rolled back. 



Kumejima, Ryukyu. Types No. 90,045, A. N. S. P., from No. 

 1 ,359 of Mr. Hirase's collection. 



This is closely related to the preceding species (C noviluna), but it 

 differs in being larger, less strongly striate, witii the inferior lamella 

 bent less abruptly within the back; the lunella is situated more deeply, 

 and the clausiliuin is much less specialized, wanting the angular lobe 

 and notch on the palatal margin, so conspicuous in C. noviluna. The 

 l)eristome reminds one of tlie Formosan C. sheridani {inversiluna, 

 moon inverted). 



Section TIIAUMATOPTYX nov. 



Clausilia^ with discontinuous peristome, the colimicllar and parietal 

 walls covered with an adnate callus, the aperture therefore somewhat 

 Bulimoid. Inferior lamella receding, vertical below, abruptly bent 

 inward in the middle. Upper palatal plica and lunella indistinguish- 

 ahly united into one extremehj long, arcuate fold, subparallel to the 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



pi-iiicipal plica, but curving down at the inner end. Clausiliuin Zap- 

 tychoid, with an angular projection near the middle of the palatal 

 margin. Type C. hivincta. {Thaumaloptyx , w^onderful fold.) 



This group is proposed for a marvellously specialized ClamUia. The 

 shell is not in the least rimate, the columellar and parietal margins of 

 the peristome being wholly adnate to the whorl, represented by a thin- 

 edged callus spread upon the whorl. It has some resemblance to 

 Selenoptyx in the deeply receding closing apparatus, the abruptly bent 

 inferior lamella Avithin the last whorl, the shape of the combined 

 upper palatal plica and lunella, and in the form of the clausilium. 



Clausilia bivincta n. sp. PI. XXXIV, figs. 45, 46. 



Shell slenderly fusiform, slowly tapering above to the rather large, 

 obtuse apex; thin, yellowish-corneous, subtransparent. Surface 

 glossy, faintly striatulate, the last whorl slightly striate behind the 

 lip. Whorls 8 to 9, the upper ones quite convex, the penultimate whorl 

 largest, the last whorl tapering, constricted around the middle as though 

 bound in by two tightly encircling cords. Aperture irregularly piri- 

 form, the outer and basal lips expanded, narrowly reflexed, not thick- 

 ened within; outer lip sinuous, being arched forward above the middle, 

 retracted at sinulus and base. The columellar and parietal lips are, 

 reflexed, and ivholly adnate, appearing only as a whitish callus spreading 

 upon the last whorl. The superior lamella is very small, thin and 

 oblique, not attaining the margin, continuous with the spiral lamella, 

 which is low within the back, but becomes high on the ventral side. 

 It penetrates past the aperture to the middle of the left side. The 

 inferior lamella recedes so as to be invisible from in front; within the 

 back it ascends vertically a short distance, then turns abruptly and 

 horizontally to the left, and then again ascends in a very wide plate 

 to its insertion. It does not penetrate parallel to the spiral lamella. 

 The subcolumellar lamella emerges. The principal plica is one whorl 

 long, running from near the lip to the middle of the left side. The 

 upper palatal plica is as long as the principal plica and subparallel to it, 

 but it diverges somewhat forwardly, where it is visible in the mouth, 

 and its inner end (apparently representing the lunella) diverges still 

 more, running obliquely down to the suture, behind the posterior angle 

 of the aperture. The principal plica and the upper palatal plica are 

 visible through the shell, and appear like cords causing the constriction 

 of the last whorl. There are no other palatal plicae, but the sub- 

 columellar Tamella runs up on the palatal wall in the position of a 

 lower palatal plica. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIH.ADKMMIIA. 513 



Lentjtli 9, diiun. l.S nun. 

 7.;!. " l.S •■ 



The clausiliuni is ralhcr wide and sonicwliat r('S('nil)l('S tliat of 

 Cldiisilid norihinii. It is excised at the lilanicnt on the cohuncllar 

 siilo, and there is a projection or point Jiear tlie middle of the palatal 

 niar<iin. it Iodides v(>ntrally {hivinctus, twice bound). 



Hotawa, 'raiwan ( I'orinosa). 'Fvpes No. 89,894, A. X. S. !'., from 

 No. 1,40") of Mr. llirase's collection. 



This minute Clausilia is hif;hly specialized, and is without near 

 relatives ainona; known forms. It is a rare species, of which only five 

 were found. 'I'lie last whorl has the appearance of bein^ bound with 

 two cords about tluMuiddle. 



List ov Papers Dkschihixo Jai-axk.si': Clausiliid.e CoLLKCTKn nv 

 Mk. \'. IliUASK, 1900 1907. 



1. Additions to the Japanese band Snail Favnm— lb rroc A. X. N. Philu., 



liHH), pp. 443-448, PI. XI\'. 



2. Additions to the Japanese band Snail Fauna— III. Proc. A . S. Pliilti.. 1900. 



pp. t)7LMxS:i ris. XXIV, X.W (1901). 

 A. Additions to the Japanese band Snail Faiina — IV. Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 

 1901 , pp. 465-4S.5. Pis. XXV- XXVIII. 



4. Additions to the Japanese Land Snail Favina — Y. Proc. A. X. S. Philu., 



1901, pp. 622-046, Pis. XXXV-XXXIX (1902). 



5. Tiie band MoUusks of the boo Clioo I.slands: ('la\isilii(he. Proc. A. A. ^S'. 



Phila., 1901, pp. 409-424, Pis. XXII, XXIII. 

 G. ( 'atalogue of the Clausiliida> of the Japanese Empire. Proc. A . X. S. Phila.. 



1901, pp. 647-656 (1902). 



7. Additions to the Japane.se band Snail Fauna — \l. Proc. A. A. ,S'. Phila., 



1902, pp. 360-382, Pis. XVII-XXI. 



8. Additions to the Japanese T.and Snail Fauna— VII. Proc. A. A . ^'. Phtla., 



1902, pp. 517-533, Pis. XXVII, XXVIII. 



9. Additions to the Japanese band Snail Fauna— Mil. I'roc. A . A . S. Philu.. 



1903, pp. 315-319, PI. XIV. 



10. Xew Clausiliida; of the Japane.se Empire— X. Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1904, 



pp. 809-838, Pis. bll-bVII (1905). 



11. Xew Ciau.siliid* of the Japanese Empire— Xb Proc. A . A . S. Phila.. 1907. 



pp. 479-513, PI. XXXII-XXXIV (1908). 



EXPLAXATIOX OF I'latk.s X X X 1 1, X X X 1 1 1 . X X X 1 W 



Plate XXXII. — Figs. 1-4. — Claunilia inch/ta n. sp. 



Figs. 5-8. — Claustilia koniyaensis n. sp. 



Fig. 9. — Clansiilia enioi^pirn Pils., broken to show interior of la.^t wiiorl; f, 

 fulcrum. A. N. S., Xo. 84,898. 



Fig. 10. — ClauRilin hi/perapli/.r Pils. Palatal view of tlie clausilium. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Clausilia iivinus Pils. Clausilium of the ty])e. 

 Pl.vtk XXXIIb— Figs. 13-19.— CVf'i/.si/iV/ diacophjx n. sj). 



Figs. 20-24. — CluuRilia o.ryj>omatica n. sp. 



Figs. 25-29. — C.lan.^ilia longiplicala n. sp. 

 Pl.\te XXXIV.— Figs. 30-'S3.— Clausilia dolichoplyx n. sp. 



Figs. 34-37. — Clausilia noviluna n. sp. 



Figs. 38, 39. — Clausilia noviluna, small forn\. 



Figs. 40-42. — Clausilia exulans n. sp. 



Figs. 43, 44. — Clausilia inrptsiluna n. sp. 



Figs. 45, 46. — Clausilia bivincta n. sp. 

 34 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



THE EARLY DEVELOPMENT OF A POLYCLAD, PLANOCERA INQUILINA Wh. 



by frank m. surface. 



Contents. 



Introduction. 



Materials and Methods. 



Nomenclature. 



The Li\'ing Eggs. 



General Account of the Embryology. 



The Unsegmented Egg. 



The First Cleavage. 



The Second Cleavage. 



Segregation of the Ectoblast. 



TMrd Cleavage. 



Fourth Cleavage. 



Fifth Cleavage. 

 Formation of the Fourth Qiiartet. 

 History of the First Quartet. 



The Apical Cells. 



Further Divisions of the First Quartet. 

 History of tlie Second and Third Quartets. 

 History of the Fourth Quartet. 



The Mesoblast. 



The Entoblast. 



Discussion. 

 Summary. 

 Literature List. 

 Explanation of Plates. 

 Tables of Cell Lineage. 



It gives me great pleasure to express my deep indebtedness to Prof. 

 E. G. Conklin for his many suggestions and kind encouragement 

 throughout this and other work. I also wish to acknowledge the 

 many favors I have received from the University of Pennsylvania by 

 which this work was made possible. My thanks are also tendered to 

 the donor of the University of Pennsylvania room at the Marine 

 Biological Laboratory at Woods Holl during the summer of 1906. 



Introduction. 



Our knowledge of the development of the polyclad worms is based 

 chiefly on the admirable works of Arnold Lang. In his extensive 

 monograph of this class of the Turbellaria, published in 1884, Lang has 

 not only summarized the results of all previous investigators, but has 

 himself added very materially to our knowledge of their embryology. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



Previous students of polyclatl embryology have shown the undoul^t- 

 edly spiral nature of the cleavage up until a late stage of segmentation. 

 In this respect the de\'elopment of these platodes corresponds closely 

 with the cleavage of annelidan and molluscan eggs. Wilson (92) says 

 (p. 439): "Up to a late stage in the spiral period (twenty-eight cells) 

 every individual blastomere and every cell division is represented by 

 a corresponding blastomere and a corresponding cell division in the 

 embryo of the polyclad and in that of the gasteropod." The same 

 practically may be said of the annelid. 



This striking resemblance in the early ontogeny of three great groups 

 of animals should not be without some significance. Yet, according 

 to the accounts of these earlier investigators, the later history of the 

 cells in the polyclad embryo differs very greatly from that of the 

 apparently homologous cells in the annelids and mollusks. The 

 difference is so marked that Conklin (97) has characterized it as "very 

 great, perhaps irreconcilable." Wilson (92) has summarized this 

 difference as follows (p. 441): "In the polyclad the first group of 

 micromeres gives rise to the entire ectoblast, the second and third 

 groups to the mesoblast, the macromeres to the entoblast. In the 

 mollusk and annelid, on the other hand, the second and third groups of 

 micromeres give rise to the ectoblast, like the first set, and the meso- 

 derm arises subsequentl3^" 



The formation of the ectoderm from the first quartet alone and of the 

 mesoderm from the whole of the second and third quartets has been a 

 serious stumbling block to those embryologists w^ho have attempted to 

 establish cellular homologies. Wilson in a later paper (94) has cited 

 this case as the climax in the contradictions of comparative embry- 

 ology. A number of recent writers have expressed a doubt as to the 

 correctness of Lang's interpretations. Thus ilead (97) WTites (p. 

 289): "I am not convinced that the cells described by Lang do give 

 rise to the mesoderm, and I believe it possible that the mesoderm of the 

 polyclad is formed in the same manner and from exactly the same cell 

 as in the annelids with unequal cleavage." 



This was the state of affairs until 1898 when Prof. Wilson published 

 in his paper on "Cell Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscences" some 

 observations on a Pacific coast species of Leptoplana. Wilson's 

 investigations showed that Lang was wrong in certain particulars, but 

 did not fulfill Mead's prediction with regard to the mesoblast. Wilson 

 found that each of the first three quartets of micromeres contributed 

 to the formation of ectoderm, but also found that the mesoderm arose 

 by inbudding from cells of the second quartet and possibly some from 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC^ 



the third. Wilson's work was not a detailed study of the develop- 

 ment, and it lea\-es the impression that there may be something still 

 undiscovered in the embryology of these interesting worms. Most of 

 Wilson's work and all of Lang's was on the living egg. P]very student 

 of embryology knows how luisatisfactory this method is for the late 

 stages of segmentation, imless checked by properly fixed and stained 

 material. 



In view of these facts it has seemed worth while to enter into a more 

 or less detailed account of the cell lineage of this form and gain, if 

 possible, data to support or refute the theory of cellular homology. 

 Besides, such data should throw some light on the phylogeny of this 

 class of the Turbellaria. 



Lang has given so complete a review of the literature on polyclad 

 embryology previous to 1884 that it would be mere repetition to go 

 over that in detail here. The earliest investigators were Girard (1846- 

 1 854) , Vailliant ( 1 866-1 868) and Kef erstein ( 1 868) . Of these the work 

 of Keferstein was by far the best. Three other investigators had 

 studied polyclad development previous to 1884. The first of these 

 was Hallez (1878-1879). Hallez recognized but one quartet of micro- 

 meres. From this the ectoderm arose. The macromeres budded off 

 four small cells at the oral pole which he believed formed the mesoderm. ' 

 He described four other later buds at the oral po\e which formed the 

 wall of the gut. The work of Goette (1878-1882) and Selenka (1881) 

 followed close on that of Hallez. Goette also observed but one quartet 

 of micromeres in Stylochus pillidium. When the ectoderm had 

 reached the equator of the egg two to four small cells were formed at 

 the oral pole (lower endoderm). Later the large macromeres l^uddeil 

 large cells towards the aboral pole. These cells formed the upper 

 endoderm. From the upper and lower endoderm the wall of the 

 alimentary canal was formed, while the lai-ge macromeres 'became 

 food yolk. Goette foiuid no mesoderm. 



Selenka (1881) determined that two quai-tets were given off. Ac- 

 cording to him the first formed ectoderm and the second the mesoderm. 

 Four small cells were formed at the oral pole (lower endoderm of 

 Goette), from which he believed the entire wall of the alimentary canal 

 was formed. He found no upper endoderm. 



Lang (1884) found that three quartets of micromeres were formed. 

 As already stated he believed the first formed the ectoderm, the second 

 and third the mesoderm. From the large macromeres four small cells 

 were formed at the oral pole (lower endoderm). Then each of the large 

 macromeres (fourth quartet) budded towards the aboral pole an upper 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPIIIA. 517 



tMidoderni cell, as Goette had found. He dcii\('<l tlic uliiiientary canal 

 (i\nn the upper and lower endoderni cells, while the niacronieres (middle 

 <'nd()(UM-ni) broke up into food yolk and were absorbed by the other 

 cells. All of the last four writers found that the posterior niacroniere 

 behaved differently from the otlier three in that it divided with its 

 luiclear s])indle lying horizontally, thus giving rise to five macromeres 

 (foiu'th (piartet). 



IMatkuial and Mktiiods. 



The follow iiiii' paper is based u])on the study of a species of polyclad, 

 rianocira inquilina, descril)ed l)y Prof. "Wheeler in 1894. The material 

 was obtained at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, 

 ^Massachusetts, during the months of July and August of 1906. 



Planoccra inquilina is i)eculiar among polyclads in that it leads an 

 apparently parasitic life. These worms are found in the branchial 

 (•haml)er of the large whelk, Sycotypus canaliculatiis Gill. As Wheeler 

 suggests, it seems probal)le that they live on the excretory or waste 

 products of this gasteropod. No evidences that they feed on the 

 tissues of the host have been found. The adult worms were obtained 

 in considerable abundance, averaging about three worms for every 

 Avhelk opened. The adult pol3'clads were transferred to dishes of sea 

 water, in which the water was changed by means of a system of balanced 

 syphons. These syphons served to keep the water free from sand and 

 dirt, and also prevented the overflow of the water and the escape of the 

 worms. The animals usually laitl eggs soon after being brought into 

 the laboratory. As described by Wheeler, the eggs are laid in spiral, 

 g;elatinous capsules containing anywhere from 100 to 2,000 eggs each. 

 Each egg is surrounded by a separate egg membrane and the whole is 

 imbetlded in tlie capsule material. In many cases two eggs are 

 deposited in a single egg membrane, both of which develop normally. 

 This is the usual way in which polyclad eggs are deposited. The tough 

 capsule is difficult to penetrate with fixing and staining reagents. 

 This fact no doubt is one of the chief reasons why so few embryologists 

 have worked on polyclad development. The eggs of Planocera 

 inquilina seem more favorable in this respect, and with care it is possible 

 to get very good preparations. The egg capsules were deposited 

 against the sides of the dishes, and it w'as necessary to cut them away 

 with a scalpel. 



WTieeler (94) did not succeed in getting the eggs of this species to 

 develop under laboratory conditions. On the contrary I experienced 

 no difHcultv of this kind. Stages from the maturation to the free 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. , 



swimming, Miiller's larvae were obtained without difficulty. I do not 

 know wherein my methods differed from Wheeler's. He suggested 

 that the water in the laboratory was too warm. However I made no 

 attempt to keep it cool, and in some cases the sun shone directly on the 

 dishes without apparently affecting the eggs. The adult animals 

 however would live for only a few days. After the first day they 

 became very sluggish and their bodies began to break up in a manner 

 similar to that descril^ed by "Wheeler. 



Although I studied the question a good deal, I have never been able 

 to ascertain where the eggs of this polyclad are laid imder natural 

 conditions. The animals w^ere laying throughout the entire simimer 

 from June to September, yet I have never foimd a single capsule except 

 when deposited in my dishes. I have repeatedly searched the interior 

 of the branchial chamber of the whelks in which adult worms were 

 found, but to no avail. I have also examined carefully the shells of 

 these gasteropods, both inside and out, but no eA'idence of egg capsules 

 was found. I found that the worms always laid soon after being 

 removed from the whelk to the dishes of sea water, and it is possible 

 that this is the normal stimulus to egg deposition. If such is the case 

 the adult animals must deposit their eggs on stones or other smooth 

 objects on the bottom. In such a case both adult and young would 

 have to rini the risk of again finding a Sycoti/pus and entering its 

 branchial chamber. The risk seems to be consideral)le, and the number 

 of eggs deposited by an individual is perhaps hardly sufficient to 

 warrant such an hypothesis. 



The early divisions up to the forty-eight- or fifty-cell stage were 

 followed and figured in the living egg. The eggs are rather opaque 

 and it is difficult to iDe certain concerning many of the divisions. This 

 whole portion of the cell lineage was later gone over in the stained 

 preparations and the previous observations on the living material 

 were verified or corrected. 



Eggs were fixed in various solutions, among which were sublimate 

 acetic both ac[ueous and in 95 per cent, alcohol, Gilson's murcuro- 

 nitric, picro-sulphuric, picro-acetic, Perenney's fluid and Flemming's 

 solution. Of these the sublimate-acetic mixtures and Gilson's fluid 

 proved most valuable. For staining whole mounts Conklin's (02) 

 picro-hannatoxlyn was used. Slightly stronger hsematoxlyn than 

 reconniiended by Conklin was found better for these particular eggs. 

 The eggs were then cleared in xylol and mounted in balsam. It was 

 impossible on account of their small size to remove the eggs from the 

 capsules, but it was found that they cleared better if the capsules were 

 torn into small pieces. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



In stiulying the cell lincaf^e the chief difhculty experienced was in 

 not being able to rotate the eggs under the cover glass. The eggs are 

 not orientated in any definite direction within the capsules, and it was 

 necessary to pick out for study those eggs which were favorably 

 oriented. Besides it is particularly difficult to determine the lineage 

 of certain cells if one is able to view them from one side only. The 

 fact that the eggs could not be rotated accounts for some of the draw- 

 ings being from a somewhat oblique view. 



The results obtained from studying the whole mounts w'ere checked 

 as far as possible by the use of serial sections. It was found necessary 

 to bleach the Flemming material with peroxide of hydrogen before 

 sectioning. A number of stains were used for the sections, but Dela- 

 field's haematoxlyn, either in toto or on the slide, proved most useful. 

 A combination of thionin and acid fuchsin also gave good results. 

 There is too much yolk in these eggs to use Haidenhain's iron-aluni- 

 hsematoxlyn to advantage. 



Nomenclature. 



The system of nomenclature followed in the cell lineage of this paper 

 is that used by Chabry (87), Wilson (92) and Conklin (97), wdth slight 

 modifications. This system is the same as has been used by Child 

 (1900), Treadwell (1901), Casteel (1904), Nelson (1904), and many 

 others. For the sake of convenience the chief points are repeated here. 

 Each of the four quadrants of the egg is denoted by one of the first 

 four letters of the alphabet. The left quadrant is A, the anterior B, 

 the right C, and the posterior D. The four macromeres form the basal 

 quartet ; the first group of four micromeres to be separated from these 

 is the first quartet, and so on. A micromere is denoted by a lower case 

 letter, while the capital letters are reserved for the corresponding 

 macromeres. The number of the quartet to which a micromere 

 belongs is indicated by a coefficient, while the cell generation is shown 

 by the exponent. Of the two cells of any division of a micromere 

 (except 4d), the one lying nearer the animal pole is regarded as the 

 stem cell and receives the smaller exponent. Thus 2a\ a cell of the 

 second quartet in the A quadrant, will divide into 2a*-^ and 2a^-^. 2a' ' 

 lies nearer the animal pole than 2a^-^. 2a^-^ will divide into 2a^-^-^ and 

 2a' ■^•^. In the case of the divisions of the mesentoblast, 4rf, the lower 

 cell is regarded as the stem cell and receives the smaller exponent 

 (Conklin, 97). 



A division is to the right, dexiotropic, if the upper cell lies to the 

 right of the lower when viewed by an imaginar}'' observer situatofl at 




520 PllOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



the animal pole and fa(*ui<i; the cell in question. If the uj^per cell is to 

 the left of the lower the division is Iseotropic ( Lillie, 95). If the spindle 

 is horizontal, i.e., the cleavage meridional, the cell to the right receives 

 the smaller exponent. 



Following Child (1900), the macromeres receive the coefhcient of the 

 quartet to which they last contributed. Thus 3A gave rise at its last 

 division to 3o. Further details of the system will become evident by 

 reference to the tables of cell lineage and to the figures. 



The Livixc; Eca;. 



The living egg of Planocera inquilina consists of a uniformly dense 

 mass of granules which vary only slightly in size, l^etween these 

 granules is a light colored fluid substance. When the one-celled egg 

 is strongly centrifuged for some time the yolk granules are compacted 

 to one side and a cap of the light colored fluid, in which are only a few 

 granules, lies at the opposite side. This cap of fluid occupies perhaps 

 one-fourth or a little less of the entire egg. When the egg is crushed 

 under a cover glass and examined with an immersion lens, minute 

 bodies (microsomes?) are found in the fluid portion. These small 

 bodies exhibit a constant "brownian" movement. When the egg is 

 entire, however, no motion of any kind can be discerned. 



The eggs of this species of Polyclad appear perfectly uniform through- 

 out. Helenka, Goette and Lang have found that in many polyclad 

 eggs there is a darker iiuicr portion and a lighter outer layer to the 

 eggs. I could make out no such differentiation in these eggs. Lang- 

 did not find this separation of substance in Discoadis tigrina. 



Consideral)le time was spent during the summer attempting to 

 experiment on these eggs. But in all cases where the conditions were 

 varied from the normal the egg dieil in a short time and no results were 

 obtained. 



All the early cleavages as well as the matiu'ation divisions occur at 

 intervals of about one hour. The whole development proceeds rather 

 more rapidly than in most })olyclads. At the end of the second day 

 or at the beginning of the third the embryo is completely covered by 

 the small ectodermal cells. Cilia soon begin to form on these and by 

 the third day the embryo begins to slowly I'otate within the capsule. 

 During the next day or two the cilia become better developed and the 

 embryo rotates faster and faster. The rotation takes place first in one 

 direction and then after a short pause in another. Occasionally they 

 cease moving for S(niie time. The eye spots appear al:)Out the fourth 

 (lay. During the foui'th and fifth days a number of homogeneous 




1!)()7.] NATllRAI. SCIEXCES OF IMIILADELrHIA. 521 



\-(»lk si)lu'i-ul(<s can !)(• seen iiisi(l(> the ('iiil)ry(). IW the eml of tlie 

 fiftli (lay the ciliated processes characteristic of the Miiller's larva' begin 

 to appear and the embryo exhibits fre(|ueiit contractions of its body. 

 On the sixth day the larva> bejiin to ])urst through the egg membranes 

 and to swim ai)out as typical Miiller's larva-. 1 did not succeed in 

 keeping these larva> more than two or three days, during which time 

 they seemed to undergo but little change. 



General Accouxt of the Kmbryoi/xjv. 



Following the example of many writers on embryology, it seems that 

 the later detailed account can be made briefer and more readily 

 understood if it is prefaced by a brief general sketch of the develop- 

 ment. The segmentation of the egg is total and slightly unequal. 

 From the first two divisions four cells result, of which one, the posterior, 

 is slightly the largest. Three quartets of micromeres are then given 

 off in alternating dexiotropic and lajotropic directions. The large cells 

 of the basal quartet then bud ofT at their lower, vegatative pole four 

 very small cells, which are to be regarded as the macromeres. The 

 large upper cells of this division form the fourth quartet. The large 

 posterior cell of this quartet, 4d, behaves very difTerently in its future 

 divisions from the other three. We may designate this cell as the 

 "mesentoblast," following Conklin's nomenclature. At the stage 

 with forty-fom- cells this mesentoblast buds into the interior of the 

 egg a large cell. 4(1'. Both of the mesentoblast cells then divide. In 

 these divisions the nuclear spindles lie horizontally. From the lower 

 pair of cells the greater part of the alimentary canal is derived. The 

 upper pair probably contribute a small amount to the alimentary 

 canal, while the larger portion goes to form the mesoderm of the body. 



In the later development the chief axis of the egg, i.e., the axis from 

 the animal to the vegetative pole, becomes bent, so that the animal 

 pole comes to lie at the anterior end of the embryo. 



From the first (juartet arises the ectoderm, covering the anterior 

 and dorsal jiortions of the body. From cells of this quartet four 

 strings of cells bud into the interior of the embryo and form the gang- 

 lion. The eyes arise in ectodermal cells of this quartet. The second 

 <iuartet gives rise to the larger portion of the ectoderm on the ventral 

 and posterior regions of the body. From cells of this quartet is formed 

 most of the ectodermal pharynx. A portion of the second quartet is 

 l)udded into the embryo and forms mesoderm. From this source 

 iU'ises probabh' only that mesoderm found around the l)lastopore and 

 which is later concerned in the structures of the pharynx. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The third quartet consists of small cells from which apparently 

 only ectoderm is derived. The individual divisions of these cells ha-ve 

 not been traced very far, but there is every reason to believe that they 

 form ectoderm only. 



The history of the fourth quartet is peculiar. As already stated ^ 

 the posterior cell 4d is the mesentoblast, from which the alimentary 

 canal and a portion of the mesoderm arises. The other three cells of 

 the fourth quartet, 4a, 46 and 4c, do not divide as long as their history 

 can be traced. They, however, break up into a large number of 

 homogeneous yolk spheres which are absorbed by the endoderm cells.. 

 The large nuclei of these three cells can be traced until the alimentary 

 canal is partl}^ formed. 



The nuclei of the small macromeres show evidences of degeneration. 

 These do not divide as long as they can be followed. They are carried 

 into the embryo by the pharyngeal invagination of ectoderm, and it 

 seems probable that they degenerate without giving rise to any morpho- 

 logical structure. 



The Unsegmented Egg. 



The unsegmented egg of Planocera inquilina is nearly spherical in 

 shape and measures about one-tenth of a millimeter in diameter. In 

 many cases, however, the eggs are pressed out of their normal shape 

 by crowding within the capsule. The eggs when laid possess a large 

 germinal vesicle wdiich lies slightly to one side of the centre (fig. 1). 

 This statement is not remarkable in itself, were it not for the fact that 

 the eggs in the uterus of the adult possess a well-developed spindle 

 with equatorial plate, centrosomes, etc. Apparently this spindle 

 never goes farther than the equatorial plate stage and then degenerates 

 so that the egg when deposited possesses a germinal vesicle. This 

 phenomenon was first observed in certain polyclad eggs by Selenka 

 (81d), and later Wheeler (94) has recorded it for this species. Gardiner 

 (99) has studied this phenomenon in Polycherus candaius and concludes 

 that the uterine spindle is due to abnormal conditions of the adult. I 

 have not attempted to study this phenomenon in detail, but a casual 

 survey shows that in animals which were fixed as soon as possible after 

 removal from the whelk this uterine spindle was well developetl. 

 Since other animals from these same lots laid eggs which developed 

 normally, one must conclude that if it is not a normal phenomenon it 

 at least does not interfere with the later development. Selenka (81f/) 

 suggests that this spindle is of use in bringing the yolk granules to 

 the centre of the egg, but, as Wheeler has noted, such could hardly be 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rinLADKLPHIA. 52.J 



the case here, since the distrilnitiou of the yolk granules is uniform 

 throughout the egg. 



Wheeler (94) has stated that the impregnation is probably what 

 Whitman (91) has called "hypodermic." I have several times 

 observed animals apparently in copulation. In this act the two 

 animals remain in contact for some time and move about together. 

 Most fre([uently the ventral sides of the animals were in contact. 

 Fertilization is necessarily internal, although the means by which the 

 sperm reach the eggs is not known. 



Two matiu'ation divisions occur after the egg is deposited. The 

 first occurs about one hour after deposition and the second about one 

 hour later. At eacli of these divisions the egg goes through some of the 

 most remarkable contortions (fig. 2). The egg becomes very irregular, 

 and processes occur from all sides. These processes consist of the more 

 fluid substance and contain few yolk granules. In many cases parts 

 of the egg are cut off entirely. In one case observed, the egg was 

 actually cut into two, so that I first mistook it for a two-cell stage, but 

 later these parts fused and it then imderwent normal development. In 

 some cases minute pieces seem to be cut off which do not fuse with the 

 egg, for some time at least, but continue to float about between it and 

 the egg membrane. 



The movement of the egg substance is very slow. It takes about 

 twenty minutes for an egg to pass through such a contortion and 

 regain its normal spherical shape. The phenomenon is the same at each 

 of the two maturation divisions. Similar phenomena have been 

 observed b}- Hallez (79), Goette (S2) and Selenka (81) in other pol)^clad 

 eggs. Such ama'boid movements are also quite common in the eggs 

 of other animals, especially annelids. 



The First Cleava(;e. 



About one hour after the second maturation division the first cleav- 

 age furrow makes its appearance. The spindle for the first cleavage 

 lies near the centre of the egg. The first two blastomeres are not of 

 equal size, although the difference is slight (fig. 4). In order to make 

 certain that there is a recognizable difference, I have made a number 

 of camera drawings both of living and stained eggs. In all cases where 

 it was not evident that the egg was pressed out of shape in its membrane 

 the difference in size is quite easily recognized. 



According to Lang (84) this difference in size of the first two blasto- 

 meres is very constant in polyclads. Lang says (p. 330): "Ich habe 

 diese allerdings wenig auffallende Verschiedenheit in der Grosse 




-524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



der zwei ersten J^lastomeren, die Selenka l)ci Thysaiiozoon luid Eur}-- 

 lei:»ta coiistatirte, niclit nur bei Discocclis tigrina, sondern auch bei 

 alien Pseudt)ceriden unci Eurylepta nachweisen konnen. Ich glaube, 

 dass sie auch bei alien Leptoplaniden existirt, obschon sie hier schwer 

 nachweisbar ist." 



Since the polar l)odies do not remain attached to the animal pole, I 

 have been unable to ascertain whether there is a rotation of the spheres, 

 indicating that the first cleavage is spiral, as Conklin (97) has shown 

 for Crepidula. With the separation of the two cells their outlines 

 become more or less irregular. Especially along their line of contact 

 <lelicate protoplasmic processes extend outward. This is very much 

 less marked than in the case of the maturation divisions, but there 

 seems little doubt but that it is due to the same internal causes, what- 

 ever those may be. The same phenomenon may also be observed in 

 several of the next succeeding cleavages, i.e., at the four- or even 

 eight-cell stage. But with each successive cleavage the processes are 

 smaller and more delicate and the phenomenon less marked. 



The Second Cleavage — Two to Four Cells. 



A little less than an hour after the first two cells have separated a 

 furrow appears in each. These furrows often appear sinuiltaneously, 

 but in many cases one cell begins to divide in advance of the other. 

 Lang finds that in Discoccelis this is always the larger. " Die Theilung 

 erfolgt aber nicht ganz gleichzeitig, die grossere Furchungskugel theilt 

 sich vielmehr etwas friiher als die kleinere." In Planocera this suc- 

 cession is not so marked as in Discoccelis. In mau}^ cases the two 

 spindles are in the same phase at the same time. 



The cells resulting from this second cleavage are much more unequal 

 in size than those of the first division. Each of the U\o cells buds off 

 a smaller cell in a Iseotropic direction (PI. XXXV, figs. 5 and 6). As 

 Lang has found in Discoccelis, the two spindles of this division cross at 

 an angle. Viewed from the side these spindles form an X (fig. 5). It 

 thus happens that the two smaller cells lie at a higher level than the 

 two larger. The former tend to meet in a point at the animal pole 

 (fig. 6). Before the next division they mo\'e downwards a short 

 distance, so that a portion of the first furrow is visible between them 

 and forms a short polar furrow. Viewed from the vegetative pole the 

 two larger blastomeres always meet in a line the so-called vegetative 

 ])olar furrow ("Brechungslinie," Rauber (82), or " Querf urche," Rabl 

 (79)). As in the case of all dextral mollusks and in annelids, this polar 

 furrow turns to the right when viewed in the plane of the first cleavage. 




1907.] NATUHAL SCIENCES OF I'lII LADEI.I'IIIA. S'iS' 



The two siii;ill(M- Mastomcros, .1 and C, are approxiinatcl}' equal in 

 size (fifr. 6). while of the remaining two, one is significantly larger than 

 the other. The larger of these, i.e., the largest of the four cells, is the 

 one denoted by /). and lies on the posterior side of the egg. The next 

 largest cell, li. is anterior, while the two smaller cells, A and C, are 

 lateral in position. It thus hajipens that the larger of the two blasto- 

 nieres in the two-cell stage gives rise to the posterior and right blasto- 

 meres, /) and C, while the smaller forms the anterior and left blasto- 

 nieres, li and ,1. Thus the first cleavage separates the posterior and 

 right sides from the anterior and left. 



Tnnu) Cleava(;k — Four to I'^ioiit Celt>s. 



Th(- lliird cleavage is strongly dexiotropic. The resulting cells, la, 

 \h, ](• and 1(/, come to lie, when completely separated, in the furrows 

 between the macromeres (fig. 8). They retain this position only until 

 after the next cleavage. As has been found in the case of other spirally 

 cleaving eggs, the resulting position of the blastomeres here is not due 

 to surface tension alohe. The s])indles from the moment of the break- 

 ing of the nuclear membranes indicate clearly the direction the cleavage 

 is to take (comp. fig. 12). It is thus a phenomenon inherent in the cell 

 structure, although surface tension no tlouljt plays a part in giving the 

 blastomeres their final position. 



The divisions of the four l)lastomeres do not usually take place 

 synchronously. Lang gives the following rhythm for Discocaiis. The 

 largest cell (D) divkles first, next the anterior large cell {B). and after 

 these have divided the lateral cells A and C divide at about the same 

 time. In Planocera inquilina as a greneral rule the same rhythm holds 

 true, although there are often exceptions to it. The spindles are usually 

 i)resent in all four of the cells at the same time, but those of the two 

 larger cells are nearly always more advanced. The fact that in the 

 great majority of cases this rhythm holds true is exceedingly interesting. 

 Lang (84) was the first to ])oint out that there was such a constant 

 rhythm in the divisions of embryonic cells. Lang found that not only 

 did this succession hold good for divisions of the blastomeres where 

 there is an actual difference in size, but also that the descendants of 

 these cells divided in the same order (see quotation p. 526). 



Since that time many other observers have found a more or less 

 similar and constant rhythm in various animals, e.g., Lillie (95) in 

 Unio, Jennings (96) in Asplanchna, Child (00) in Arenicola, and Nelson 

 (04) in Dinophilus. In Unio, Arenicola and Dinophilus the order is 

 D, C, A, B; in Asplanchna it is D, C, B, A ; while in Discoccelis and 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Planocera it is D, B {A, C), the latter two cells dividing at about the 

 same time. It is evident that this is correlated with the larger size of 

 certain blastomeres. It is thus in contradiction to Balfour's (80) law, 

 that a greater amount of yolk retards the rapidity of cleavage. Kofoid 

 (94) has suggested that this difference in rapidity of cleavage is due to 

 the greater absolute amount of protoplasm in the larger cells. 



In general this rhythm can be recognized for six or seven cleavages 

 in Planocera, although, as stated, there are often exceptions to it. 



The cells of the first quartet are only slightly smaller than the cells 

 of the basal quartet (fig. 8). The inequality, while sufficient to be 

 easily recognized, is not so great in this species as in Discocoelis and 

 most other polyclads. Girard (54) has described the cleavage of 

 Planocera elliptica as total and equal. In all others so far as known it 

 is unequal. All the cells of the first quartet are approximately equal 

 in size (fig. 8), notwithstanding the inequality of the cells from which 

 they arose. Of these cells in Discocoelis Lang says (p. 331) : " Anschein- 

 end sind die vier Ur-Ectodermzellen [first quartet] gleich gross ; es ist 

 aber sehr leicht moglich, dass sie in Wirklichkeit jihnliche Grossen- 

 unterschiede zeigen, wie die vier grossen Blastomeren .... well sie 

 bei ihren weiteren Theilungen ganz genau demselben Rhythmus folgen, 

 wie die vier grossen Blastomeren." 



Fourth Cleavage — Eight to Sixteen Cells. 



The next cleavage is initiated by the division of the largest of the 

 macromeres, ID. This division is followed very closely by the cleavage 

 of IB (PI. XXXVI, fig. 9). Before the daughter cells 2d and 2b have 

 been completely separated spindles appear in the two lateral cells lA 

 and IC The formation of this second quartet takes place in a Iseotropic 

 direction (fig. 9). By the separation of these cells, the cells of the 

 first quartet are pushed towards the left, thus in the opposite direction 

 from which they were given off. While the macromeres are dividing 

 the fii'st quartet begins to divide, also in a Iseotropic direction (fig. 9). 

 These cells divide very nearly synchronously, but in very nearly all cases 

 the spindle of the posterior cell Id is further advanced than that of the 

 others (fig. 9). The result of this division of the first quartet is eight 

 cells very nearly equal in size (fig. 10). When the divisions are 

 completed the upper or apical cells have rotated almost 45 degrees to 

 the left, so that they now occupy a position very nearly over their 

 respective macromeres (comp. fig. 12). They would no doubt occupy 

 such a position were it not for the inequality of the macromeres, which 




1007.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PFIILADEr JMH A. 527 



becomes more marked with the separation of each quartet. The 

 <listal cells of this division, viz., la^ 16^^ Ic^ and IcP, correspond in their 

 method and time of origin to the "Trochoblasts" of annelids (Wilson, 

 92) or the "Turret cells" of mollusks (Conklin, 97). Their future 

 divisions correspond more closely perhaps to the trochoblasts. Since, 

 however, no structure directly homologous with the prototroch is 

 recognizable in the polyclad larva?, we cannot say that these cells are 

 homologous with those of annelids. 



The cells of the second quartet are slightly smaller than the original 

 cells of the first quartet. 



Fifth Cleavage — Sixteen to Thirty-two Cells. 



In the next cleavage each of the sixteen cells divides so that the 

 ideal thirty-two-cell stage is realized. Again the cells of the posterior 

 <iuadrant D divide slightly in advance of the others. The first cell to 

 divide is the large macromere 2D, which sends off in a dexiotropic 

 direction a small cell 3c/; 36 of the anterior quadrant is next separated 

 off. The other two cells of the third quartet may not come off until 

 after the cells of the first and second quartets have divided (fig. 14). 



The cells 2d and 26 begin to divide, shortly after the furrows for Sd 

 and 36 are formed. The divisions of the second quartet are nearly 

 meridional, but, as PI. XXXVII, figs. 16 and 19 show, the right cell is 

 slightly higher than the left, so that the division is dexiotropic. The 

 lower distal cells, 2a^-2d', are the larger (fig. 16). Before this division 

 has proceeded far the apical or stem cells of the first quartet divide in 

 a dexiotropic manner (fig. 12). The distal cells, la^-^-lrf*-, are some- 

 what smaller than the remaining apical cells (fig. 13). The former 

 lie in the angles between the latter, and the cells la^-ld^ are pushed out 

 until they lie opposite the ends of the apical cells. By this time the 

 other two cells of the third quartet, 3a and 3c, have usually been 

 constricted off (fig. 14). Next the remaining cells of the first quartet, 

 la^-lf/^ (trochoblasts), divide in a dexiotropic manner. In this case 

 tlie lower distal cells, la^-^-bi^-^, are somewhat smaller than their stem 

 cells (fig. 13). 



At this stage the cells of the third quartet, 3a-3d, are the smallest 

 cells present. The formation of this third quartet in polyclad eggs 

 was first observed by Lang, the older workers having overlooked it. 

 Lang calls this quartet the primitive mesoderm of the second order. 



The thirty-two cells are distributed as follows: 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I)eC,„ 



First quartet 16 cells. 



Second quartet, 8 " 



Third quartet 4 " 



Basal quartet, 4 " 



32 " 



From the above it is noticeable that the cells of the first (juartet 

 show a tendency towards rapid division. In a number of moUusks^ 

 e.g., Neritvna (Blochman, 81), Unio (Lillie, 95), Crepidvla (Conklin, 97) 

 and Fiona (Casteel, 04), the first quartet has divided only once before 

 the third quartet is formed. In Umbrella (Heymens, 93) and Urosal- 

 pinx (Conklin, 91) the first quartet does not divide at all until after the 

 third is formed. On the other hand, in the polyclads so far studied 

 (Lang, 84), in N cries (Wilson, 92), Liniaz (Kofoid, 94), and in 

 Dinophilus (Nelson, 04), the first quartet divides twice before or at the 

 time the third is forming. As Conklin (97) has pointed out, this indicates 

 the general rate of development of the upper hemisphere. In Plano- 

 cera this is exceedingly rapid as its further history will show. 



Formation of the Fourth Quartet — Thirty-two to Forty Cells. 



After the thirty-two-cell stage the divisions become more or less 

 irregular; certain cells divide several times before others divide at alL 

 After the completion of the thirty-two-cell stage the next cells to 

 divide are the large basal quartet cells, 3D and 3/1 The nuclei of these 

 cells have moved from the upper to the lower edge of cells, and when 

 the spindle forms it reaches from the centre of the cell downward to its 

 lower margin (figs. 15 and 16). These spindles are very nearly radial 

 in position. Concerning them in Discocoelis Lang says (p. 335): "Nur 

 sehr schwach ist die Abschniirung in der Richtung einer rechts gewun- 

 denen Spirale (wenn wir das Ei so orientiren, dass der orale Pol unten, 

 der aborale oben liegt, und der Beobachter in der Achse dcs Eies steht) 

 angedeutet." By comparing figs. 20 (PI. XXW'II). 25 and 26 (11. 

 XXXVIII) and 30 (PL XXXIX), it will be seen that the small macro- 

 meres show a twisting towards the left as seen from below, thus showing 

 that the fourth quartet arose by dexiotrojiic cleavage. As may be 

 seen from the spindles in fig. 15, the tm-ning of the spindle itself is very 

 slight indeed. 



As figs. 20, 25, 26 and 30 show, these lower cells are very small com- 

 pared to the cells from which they arose. Wilson (98) has designated 

 these small cells the macromeres, and the large cells from which they 

 arose the foiu'th tiuartet. As will become evident later on, I have 




1907.] XATUHAli SCIK.\('i:>^ OF PIIir.ADELPIIIA. 529 



additional evidence which points to this as the true iuterprotation. 

 Although the name "macroinere" is evidently a misnomer in this 

 case, it nevertheless seems well to retain the name for these small, 

 cells. Wilson (98, p. 21) calls attention to the fact that these macro- 

 meres "are relatively not very much smaller than in some of the 

 mollusks," for example Plo7iorhis (Rabl, SO). Judging from the 

 figures, however, the relative size of the cells varies considerably in 

 different species of polyclads. In Planocern inquUina these cells are 

 relatively very small as compared to the fourth ([uartct. 



Hallez (79) first interpreted these small cells at the oral pole (macro- 

 meres) as mesoderm. Selenka in his earlier work called them pharyn- 

 geal cells, and in his later papers primitive endoderm cells. Goette 

 (82) and Lang (84) designate them as lower endoderm. and believe that 

 they give rise to part of the alimentary canal. These four cells form 

 one of the chief landmarks np until a very late stage of segmentation. 

 At a time when the ectoderm is well established in a layer, and just 

 before it begins to invaginate at the lower pole to form the pharynx, 

 one can still make out these four cells. I"p until this time they have 

 not divided. Their later history is exceedingly difficult to follow. I 

 am inclined to the view that these cells do not take part in the forma- 

 tion of any structures in the embryo of Planocera, but that they degen- 

 erate and that their substance is absorbed by the endoderm cells. The 

 reasons for this view are, first, that they cannot be traced to any organ, 

 and, secondly, that the nuclei of these cells from the time of their 

 formation until the last trace that can be found of them show increasing 

 evidence of degeneration. Soon after these cells are formed it can be 

 seen that the chromatin is massed on one side of the nucleus in a dark 

 staining mass (figs. 17 and 20, PI. XXXVII, and fig. 25, PI. XXXVII, 

 etc.). It is this marked evidence of degenerating nuclei that enables 

 one to follow these cells even until the ectoderm has reached. this pole 

 of the egg. In the other nuclei of the egg the chromatin is more or less- 

 evenly distributed in granules often along distinct linin threads. We 

 thus have the remarkable and unique phenomena of the "maa-omeres"' 

 deqeneratiwj icithoid giving rise to any part of the embryo. Evidently 

 the function of the macromeres in this case has been taken over by the 

 cells of the fourth ({uartet. These latter cells, as the figures show, are 

 by far the largest cells in the embryo and contain the great bulk of the 

 food yolk. In fact three of these cells, 4a, 4b and 4c, probably function 

 entirely as the bearers of yolk, and if they do take part in the formation 

 of the alimentary canal it is only a minor part. The history of the 

 other member of the fourth quartet, 4d, is of especial interest and will 

 35 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



be dealt with later. From the fact that this cell gives rise to both 

 endoderm and mesoderm we may call it the " Mesentoblast " (Conklin, 

 97). 



History of the First Quartet — Apical Cells. 



After the first two macromeres, 4B and 4D, are formed and before 

 the other two cells, 3/1 and 3C, have divided, spindles appear in the 

 four stem cells of the first quartet, la^-^-ld^-^. The division of these 

 cells takes place in a very marked laeotropic direction. The results of 

 this division are four very small cells, la^-^-^-ld^*-^, lying at the proximal 

 end of the spindle or just over the animal pole, and four much larger 

 distal cells, W-'-'-ld'-'\ As fig. 18, PI. XXXVII, shows, the Inotropic 

 direction of the spindle is so marked that the cell la^-^-^ comes to lie in 

 front of Id^-^'^ and 1¥-^-^ in front of la*-^-^ and so on, so that there is a 

 rotation of 45 degrees. 



These small cells at the animal pole have been observed by Selenka 

 and Lang in polyclads, and designated by Selenka as the apical or crown 

 cells (Scheitelzellen). Selenka described these cells as arising from the 

 stem cells of the first quartet, i.e., la*-^-l<i^-^, as I have done. Lang, 

 on the other hand, says that they arise from the cells which alternate 

 with these stem cells, i.e., ae^, he^, ce^ and de^ of his system, or la*-^, 

 16^-2, Ic^-^ and Id^-^ of our system. He states that these cells W-^-ld^-^ 

 send in processes between the stem cells, and from the ends of these 

 processes the small apical cells arise. Lang describes this process in 

 considerable detail, and while it is possible he is right for Discoccelis 

 tigrina, I think it is very unlikely. 



Lang's observations were all made on the living eggs and not checked 

 with stained material. I first observed these divisions in the living 

 egg of Planocera and came to the same conclusion as Lang, viz., that 

 the apical cells came from the cells la^-^-ld^'^. It was only later when 

 I studied the preserved material of this stage that it became unmis- 

 takably evident that it was the stem cells la^-^-ld^-^ that were dividing 

 (fig. 18). The appearance in the living egg is very deceptive owing 

 to the great angle through which the spindles turn and to the small size 

 of the resulting apical cells. 



These apical cells consist of a well-formed, normal-sized nucleus and 

 a very small amount' of cytoplasmic material. In the stained eggs it 

 is only seldom that one can see anything at all of the cell boundaries. 

 Consequently in most of the drawings only the nuclei of these cells are 

 represented. 

 I, In their method and time of origin and in their relative size these 




1907.] NATURAL SCIIOXCES OF IMIILADKr.IMI I A. 531 



cells correspnml closely with the "apical rosette" of annelids. In 

 Dinophilus (Nelson, 04) these cells arise by exactly the same division 

 as in Planocera. In Nereis (Wilson, 92) they arise one division earlier, 

 i.e., by the division of la*-ld^ In many moUusks, cells of this same 

 lineage la*' *-lrf'-'-^ are not formed until much later in the develop- 

 ment, e.g., in Crepidula at the eighty-eight-cell stage, in Fiona at the 

 sixty-four-cell stage, etc. The formation of these small apical cells in 

 the polyclad embryo is an interesting and significant phenomenon, 

 marking in another detail the close resemblance between the early 

 cleavage of these platodes and that of annelids and moUusks. The 

 fate of the apical rosette in the majority of annelids is the formation of 

 an apical sense organ with an apical tuft of cilia. In CapiteUa (Eisig, 

 98) and Dinophilus (Nelson, 04) the apical plate does not bear a tuft 

 of cilia. Conklin (97) finds that these cells form an apical sense plate 

 in the Crepidula veliger, without, howe-ver, bearing a bunch of large 

 cilia. 



As to the ultimate fate of these cells in Planocera, I must again 

 disagree with the previous students of polyclad embryology. Both 

 Selenka (81) and Lang (84) state that these cells sink down and are 

 finally covered over by the other ectoderm cells. Thus Lang (p. 337) 

 says : '' Ihre Abschniirung geschieht nicht ganz gegen den aboralen Pol 

 zu, sondern etwas nach innen, gegen die Furchungshohle, so dass sie, 

 wie auch Selenka bemerkt, den Bod en einer napfartigen A'ertiefung 



am aboralen Pol bilden Da spater in der Nahe der Stelle, an 



der sich die Scheitelzellen gebildet haben, in besonderen Zellen des 

 Ectoderms die Augen entstehen, so ware es moglich, dass aus ihnen 

 Theile des Nervensystems, vielleicht der sensorielle Theile des Gehirns 

 (oberes Schlundganglion?) entstiinden." Again, I believe the decep- 

 tive conditions of the living egg have led both Selenka and Lang 

 astray. It is true that by reason of the small size of these apical cells 

 the surrounding cells somewhat overtower them and form a "bowl-like 

 depression" (PI. XXXVII, fig. 21). However I do not find, as Lang 

 states, that by the further division of the first quartet cells the apical 

 cells are covered over and so sink beneath the surface of the ectoderm. 

 In focusing on an egg from the animal pole in stages shown in PI. 

 XXXVIII, figs. 22, 23 and 24, the first nuclei to come into view are 

 those of the apical cells. Furthermore these cells tend to move out 

 from the animal pole and remain on the surface (figs. 24, 29, 31). In 

 the later stages of segmentation they cannot be definitely distinguished 

 from other cells of the same size which come to lie near them. The 

 further diA'ision of the ectoderm cells in this region do not show any 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC,. 



indications of covering over these cells. I believe that these apical 

 cells form a part of the ectodermal covering of this region of the 

 embryo. And furthermore I believe that these are the first of a 

 series of divisions occurring from now on in all the ectodermal cells, by 

 which a small epithelial cell is cut off towards the exterior and a larger 

 cell remains somewhat deeper down. It is l^y this kind of divisions 

 that nearly all of the later ectodermal layer is formed. These divisions 

 will be discussed farther on in this paper. 



Whether these apical cells form a definite sense organ or not I am 

 unable to say. It is in this region, as Lang points out, that the eyes 

 arise and that later the tentacles of the adult appear. However, the 

 exact fate of these cells is mere speculation, since I have found it 

 impossible to distinguish them in the late segmentation. 



Further History of First Quartet. 



We have so far followed the divisions of the first quartet until it is 

 composed of twenty cells, and to the time when there are forty cells in 

 the embryo. The last cells to be formed were the small apical cells, 

 la^-^-^-ld^-^-^. Very soon after this the cells la^'^-ld^-^ divide in a 

 dexiotropic manner into two almost equal cells. The lower cells, 

 la^-^-^-ld}-^"^, appear slightly smaller than the upper cells (figs. 21, 22). 

 Next, and sometimes coincident with the last division, spindles appear 

 in the large cells la^-^-^-ld}-^-^. These divide in a dexiotropic direction 

 into two very unequal cells (figs. 22, 23). The upper cells, la^-^-^-^- 

 Id}-^-^-^, are much the smaller and lie on the surface of the egg between 

 the cells la^-^-^-^-ld^-^-^-^ (fig. 24). While this division is occurring the 

 cells la^-^-ld^-^ are dividing in a laeotropic direction (figs. 22, 23). 

 Shortly after these divisions are completed the cells la^-^-ld^-^ divide 

 dexiotropically (fig. 24). In this case the lower cells, la'-^-^~ld^-^-, 

 form very small cells which lie on the surface of the egg (figs. 24, 27). 



At this time there are thirty-six cells in the first quartet and about 

 sixty-six cells in the entire embryo. This fact indicates clearly the 

 very rapid development of the upper hemisphere. In Crepidula at 

 the sixty-eight-cell stage there are only sixteen cells in the first quartet. 

 In Fiona at a similar stage there are twenty cells in this quartet. In 

 Nereis at the fifty-eight-cell stage there are thirty-two cells in the 

 first quartet, and a similar number in DinopJiilvs at the sixty-five-cell 

 stage. 



Soon after the last division the cells la^-^-^-^-ld^-^-^' divide again in 

 a slightly dexiotropic direction (fig. 28). This time the distal cells, 

 2^i.i.2.2.2_j^i.i.2.2.2^ are the smaller and lie opposite the cells from whicli 




I'.X)/.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF IMII L.VDFJ.IMII A. 533 



thoy have heon derived (I'l. XXXIX, fi<;s. 29, 31). At this time there 

 are three circles of four small cells each, lyiiiR on the surface of the e^g 

 and arranged around the animal pole (figs. 29, 31). These twelve cells 

 have been derived by three successive divisions of the large stem cells 

 of the first ciuartet, la^-*-l(^'\ The imier circle consists of the small 

 apical cells already described. The middle circle consists of the cells 

 ]^,i. 1.2. i_l^/i. 1.2.1 ^yi)i(^.i^ ^yei-g derived next and are the largest of these 

 twelve cells. The outer circle was derived at the last division described. 

 At the next division of these stem cells four more small cells are cut off 

 to the exterior. 



At the same time that the last division described is occurring, the 

 cells la^-'-l(/'---^ divide in a keotropic direction (fig. 28) into nearly 

 equal moieties. With the completion of the above divisions there are 

 forty-four cells in the first ciuartet, eleven in each quadrant. After a 

 short resting period the cells ia*-i-2i_i(/i-i-2-2.i^ w^hich have been so 

 activel)' dividing, prepare to divide again. This time they bud into the 

 interior of the egg four comparatively large cells, iai-i-2.2.i.2_2^i.i.2.2.i.3^ 

 the primitive ganglion cells. The outer smaller cells of this division, 

 j^,i. 1.2.2. i.i_j^^i. 1.2.2. 1.1^ form the fourth circle of small cells about the 

 animal pole. This is as far as I have been able to follow accurately the 

 divisions of these cells, and it is possible that the cells here designated 

 primitive ganglion cells may still bud one or two generations of ecto- 

 derm cells to the exterior. The four cells which are to form the gang- 

 lion divide repeatedly. Their individual divisions have not been 

 traced, but four strings of cells can be distinguished for some time, each 

 of which is the result of the subdivision of one of these primitive 

 ganglion cells. These ganglion cells lie at first just above the meso- 

 derm cells, 4(P-^-^ and 4cP-^-^, and it is extremely difficult to differentiate 

 the later divisions of these cells. 



In the divisions of this first quartet we have had a number of ex- 

 amples of the process already alluded to, in w^hich a very small cell is 

 budded to the exterior of the egg and partially covers the larger, deeper 

 Ijang moiety. Other examples of this same phenomenon will be 

 described in the history of the second quartet. The four sets of four 

 small cells each "which, beginning with the apical cells, are budded off 

 in rapid succession from the large stem cells of the first quartet ,la^-^- 

 Id}-^, are among the more striking examples of this phenomenon. These 

 sixteen cells (and possibly more) very nearly cover the aboral surface 

 of the egg, and by their further divisions the ectoderm of this region is 

 formed. Other cells of this first quartet show the same process more 

 or less strikingly. For instance, by the divisions of la'-'-ld--^ a very 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



small cell is cut off at the lower edge (figs. 24, 27). The same is true of 

 the divisions of la^-^-lcPK On the other hand the cells la^-^-ld}-^ 

 do not show such an unequal division. These latter cells have been 

 traced accurately through only three or four divisions, but the resulting 

 cells are all more or less equal in size and apparently wall enter directly 

 into the formation of the ectoderm. This latter process, i.e., the equal 

 division of the ectoderm cells, is much more in accord with what haii 

 been found in annelids and mollusks than is the former. 



History of the Second and Third Quartets. 



Just after the formation of the apical cells, and at about the time the 

 large cells SA and 3C are dividing, the larger cells of the second quartet, 

 2a^-2(P, divide in a nearly vertical direction (fig. 17). In many cases^ 

 the spindles show a slight dexiotropic tiu'n. Since the resulting distal 

 cells 2a'^-^-2(P-^ come to lie in the furrows between the large cells of the 

 fourth quartet, they are somewhat shifted in position to accommodate 

 themselves to the inequalities of these large cells. 



It thus happens that after the cells are separated some may be to the 

 right of the upper cell and others to their left. The division is always 

 nearly radial, but is still to be considered as belonging to the series of 

 spiral divisions. 



With this w^e have traced the divisions of the second quartet until 

 there are twelve cells present, three in each quadrant and all on the 

 surface of the egg. 



Just after the mesentoblast cell has divided for the first time the cells 

 2a^-2d} divide almost vertically but in a slightly Iseotropic direction. 

 The lower or distal cells, 2a^-^-2d'^'^, are very much smaller than the 

 upper ones (fig. 21). The former lie on the surface of the latter. This 

 is another example of the cutting off of a small cell to the exterior. 

 At about this time, sometimes before and sometimes afterwards, the 

 small cells 2a?-'^-2<p-'^, lying in the furrows between the four primary 

 cells of the fourth quartet, divide. The direction of the nuclear spindle 

 is nearly vertical (figs. 26, 27). The two cells seem nearly equal in size. 

 The lower cells, 2a^-'^-^-2d?-'^-^, reach almost to the upper edges of the 

 macromeres (figs. 26, 30). The descendants of these cells are the first 

 to reach the lower pole of the egg, and form Avithout a doubt a consider- 

 able portion of the ectodermal pharynx. 



Shortly after these two divisions the large cells of the second quartet,. 

 2a?-^-2d?\ divide in a dexiotropic manner, the two cells varying only 

 slightly in size (figs. 25, 27). At this time there are twenty-four cells 

 in the second quartet, six in each quadrant, and about seventy-eight 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



cells in the entire embryo. So far all the cells of this quartet lie on the 

 surface of the ejip;. At the next division in this quartet however the 

 cells 2a'*-2d'' cut off a small cell to the exterior and the major portion 

 of the larger cell pushes inwards (figs. 30, 32), so that they become 

 almost covered by the surrounding cells. Unfortunately I have not 

 been able to follow the further divisions of these cells with certainty. 

 At a later stage one finds one or two more small cells lying over these 

 larger, deeper lying ones. For this reason I am led to suspect that these 

 cells bud off one or two more ectoderm cells. The major portions of 

 these four cells remain on the interior of the egg and form a portion of 

 the mesoderm. Since these cells when first budded in are well towards 

 the lower (oral) side of the egg, it is very probable that they form a 

 portion of the mesoderm around the blastopore. In later stages (PL 

 XL, figs. 36-39) a considerable amount of mesoderm is found in this 

 region. This later supplies the muscles and other mesodermal 

 structures connected with the pharynx. The other mesoderm cells 

 found just beneath the ectoderm in these stages are derived from the 

 divisions of -id, as will be descril)ed shortly. 



This account of the second quartet agrees closely in its main features 

 with that of Wilson (98) for Lcptoplana. Wilson, however, believed 

 that these second quartet cells, on the interior, multiplied rapidly and 

 formed the entire mesoderm of the body. The development of the 

 remainder of the mesoderm will })e dealt with farther on, and it need 

 only be pointed out here that this account confirms Wilson's with 

 regard to ectoderm arising from the second quartet. In contradiction 

 to Lang (84), who believes that the whole of the second and third 

 quartets formed mesoderm, we find here only a relatively small portion 

 of the second quartet budding to the interior. By far the greater bulk 

 of this quartet is ectodermal. 



With regard to the third ([uartet, this is in all i^robabilit}' entirely 

 ectodermal. The cells of this quartet when first formed are relatively 

 very small. These cells divide in a nearly radial direction (slightly 

 dexiotropic) at about the seventy-four-cell stage (fig. 26). Further 

 divisions of this quartet have not been traced accurately. At later 

 stages, however, one or both of these cells in each quadrant have 

 divided and all their progeny remain on the surface. There is no 

 indication that any of these cells pass to the interior. Their small 

 size and epithelial character indicate that they are purely ectodermal. 



History of the Fourth Quartet — The Mesoblast. 

 Shortly after the apical cells are formed and the cells 2a--2(P have 




3SJ* 



cs' "^^'^g^ ACjLr:ocr cs" 



P>ee^ 





Jt — 



v^ 



riJfcZjr 



zcssrr^ ~ 2 



^2" za:=_ ZJL- 



sr*:<e. sEaar is 1. 1-^ .t— .-r -^sit 





T-ar '3EiI -=f-. Very 



t;*r-- w^sL "seise- "SW"> eels T^g^ :S gr>'t 3i'- JiiETi ^ iiis s'.-± ss»^-^ 2= 



-•^ "SLse 





■=C-:2i. "-«^y^i -r«s ;;— tf r€g^~.-ir -iiT^ea CS 43. Si ^=^n?gagjBr to 



%rr 



"^ ?*: 5sr ir2»iei ate •!ET:£;ir:s ir ^=1 tziti. Tr<=r g- srs- f : 




Two of liiCse - 



their frrt»!r»r '_ ':-'s^3k,-i#-*«id4:--- 



liee: lanes* !]r m nuBtJi tobaiga 



v€sy . 3ij. Tto T^sy wnrj&jip eelite. Ait-^ SEti -feF-*^, are 



£^~5raT5 jiTiijv jn^ pio6ii?5i'':jr iio t&ie tott hsnge 



-£ in -i2i)£: i£i0- stases. la fact' tbese tv-'O) 



■ re ^.a.g :: eni m^mi eeik. rpom tiisr posr 



frcni i£i€ - tiie iDssodescm ©ajs. iisre usa^ssaei to tins' azies cc 



^i!:; T-;-; ''- 1^—25 CC 



<^g» j>e seesa. L-jinig jiei leiir'^ itl 



rjCie ' •=?^.^.- ' ust^r £2iti mi€2iseirr siaiisijis' ;i ntzas-ii/S 'r.^nr . 



tii<e c^tiaeT d^*?ei:hiii2ii£ <qb -^ imjt^ "faywsras Tt-e 



. __rr ftpfe 43^-- asad 4iF-^-^, ir-i:_ li^se =^^^-" 



s aiTifee. ai^ x£:'''5r ermreSr na^ailiflasiac- After m ^ort 



- _ 4£F^^ ssii 4^-- „ fr. -Si - Tbe inadea ce ihesr sn 



4dr^-- irii-ijF-^-".ssa2ii divide. T_ 






538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



and 4c are shown in dotted outline. Just posterior to the nucleus of 

 46 lie the two small cells 4c/^-^-^ and 4cp-^-^ with the darker staining 

 nuclei. Just posterior to these cells are the slightly larger cells 4d^-^-^ ' 

 and 4d^-^-^-^ mentioned above. Finally, extending dorsally and anter- 

 iorly from each of these are two cells wiiich represent the results of the 

 division just mentioned and for which the spindles are shown in figure 

 34. The resemblance to the so-called "mesoblast bands" of annelids 

 and mollusks is, I think, evident. In many cases, however, the 

 "band" formation is not so marked as in this egg, which was chosen 

 for drawing on account of its regularity. In many cases the meso- 



P.S.c 



■mac 

 Fig. 2. — Schematic optical section of an egg viewed from the posterior side. To 

 show the relation of the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. Mes. 1, Meso- 

 derm derived from 4d^. Mes. 2, Mesoderm derived from second quartet 

 cells. JS'nd., Endoderm from 4d'. e, Entoblasts from 4d^. p. gr. c. Primitive 

 ganghon cells. 



blast cells do not form such evident bands. Instead the nuclear 

 spindles in the cells 4d^-^-^-^ and 4(^2-2.2.2 ]jg g^^ varying angles. This is 

 shown by the direction of the spindles in these cells in fig. 34. The 

 result tends to be a cluster of cells rather than symmetrical bands. 

 The lineage of these cells becomes too involved to trace further with 

 any accuracy. They lie well towards the dorsal side of the egg, and 

 become more or less confused with the cells which are now budding 

 in from the first quartet to form the ganglion. Nevertheless a fairly 

 definite group of cells can be found in this region during several of the 

 succeeding stages. I have attempted to represent something of the 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



53^ 



relation of those cells in the liiugramatic optical section (text fig. 2). 

 Text fig. 3 represents an actual optical section of a somewhat later 

 stage. Here the large nuclei of 4a, 4b, and 4c are again shown, while 

 lying just above them is a group of mesotlerm cells derived from the 

 division of -icF. The mesoderm now consist of a large number of cells. 

 From this time on these begin to spread out and gradually form a 

 layer of cells lying just beneath the ectoderm. 



While 1 have not been able to follow the exact lineage of these cells, 

 I think there is no doubt that the greater portion of the mesoderm of 

 the body arises from the posterior mesoblasts, while as stated before 

 only the mesodermal structures in the region of the pharynx arise 

 from cells of the second quartet. 



Mies 2 



mes. I 



end. 



mes .9 



tndc 



Fig. 3. -Optical section of an egjz; viewed from the posterior side, end, Group 

 of endoderm cells derived from 4<:/^ Below these are the degenerating 

 nuclei of the four niacronieres. Near the middle of the egg are the three 

 large nuclei of 4o, Ah and 4r. Above these are shown the nuclei (stipled) 

 of a few of the mesoderm cells derived from A(P, mes. 1. Toward the vegeta- 

 tive pole are mesoderm cells derived from the second quartet, mes. 2. 



Text fig. 3 shows a number of cells lying further towards the vegeta- 

 tive pole than the derivatives of 4cP have yet reached. These cells 

 undoubtedly arise from the further proliferation of the second quartet 

 cells, 2a*-*-^-2(Z**-^, which, as we have shown (p. 535), were budded into 

 the interior of the embryo (cf. fig. 32). These second quartet cells, 

 2a' ■^•^-2f/^-*-^, when first formed lie considerably below the equator of 

 the egg. With the overgrowth of the ectoderm they are carried 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



further clown to the region of the l)lastoporo. Thus the large group of 

 mesoderm cells found later around the i)har3'nx arise, in large part at 

 least, from the second quartet cells. It is, however, quite possible that 

 some of the derivatives of 4:dr later wander into this region also. 



We have now followed the history of the mesoderm from its origin 

 until it forms a layer of cells about the embryo just beneath the ecto- 

 derm. We may leave the discussion and comparison with other forms 

 until after we have traced the history of the endoderm. 



The Extoblast. 



The alimentary canal of the polyclads has been derived in various 

 ways by different investigators. Vaillant (68) and Keferstein (68) 

 observed that at the time the embryo began to rotate within its mem- 

 branes there was a mass of roundish fat-like spheres on the interior. 

 Hallez (78 and 79) observed drops of an egg-white-like substance on 

 the inside of the embryo, surrounded by a one-cell layer of the alimen- 

 tary canal. The cellular elements of the canal he derived rather doul^t- 

 fully from the four small cells at the oral pole (macromeres). Selenka 

 (81c) came to a similar conclusion, i.e., that the entire canal arose from 

 the four small "primitive endoderm cells" (macromeres). These were 

 carried into the embryo by the pharyngeal invagination and rapidly 

 spread over the large yolk cells (fourth quartet). According to this 

 investigator these yolk cells break up without nuclear division into a 

 large number of yolk spherules and serve as food for the developing 

 endoderm. They give rise to no morphological structure of the embryo. 

 Selenka (81) says that as soon as "die Nahrungsdotterzellen in ein 

 Dutzend oder mehr ungleich grosse kernlose Kugeln zerfallen sind. 

 beginnen die vier Ur-Entodermzellen (macromeres) ihre Theilung und 

 Wanderung. Zunachst strecken sie sich in die Lange, entsenden 

 Ausliiufer und breiten sich auf den benachbarten Dotterkugeln aus." 



Goette (82) in Stylochus pillidium finds, as already mentioned, vipper 

 endoderm cells. From these and from the middle endoderm cells 

 (fourth quartet) small cells are separated, which at first contain some 

 of the fat-like yolk. This soon disappears in these cells and the)' 

 come to form a definite layer of endoderm. The small lower endoderm 

 cells (macromeres) also take part in forming this layer. Targe drops 

 of the homogeneous yolk substance separate from the large middle 

 endoderm cells and are gradually absorbed by the cells of the canal. 



Lang (84) in Discocoelis, it will be remembered, also finds an upper 

 endoderm as well as a lower and a middle layer. Like Selenka, he no 

 longer finds any nucleus in the large cells (foui-th quartet) after the 




r.H)7.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



upper ami lower eii<li»(leriii have separated off. ^\'ith regard to the 

 inidtlle endoderni cells he says, ]). 35G: "Die in ihnen enthaltenen 

 grobeii Dotterkonier scheinen mitcinaiider zu verschmelzen so dass 

 tlie in Frage stehenden Zellen das Aussehen von beinahe honiogenen, 

 stark lichtljrechender Fettkugeln l^ekamen. Ich habe in diesen 

 Kiigeln bei ihrem zerfall nie Anij)hiastcr sieh bilden sehen. obschon 

 ieli aiifnierksani danach gesucht habe." 



The breaking up of tliese yoHc cells is very irregular. The wall of the 

 alimentary caiuU, according to Lang, is formed by the cells of the 

 upper and lower entloderm. 'J'hese increase by division and extend 

 over the yolk spheres. Finally they unite to form a definite layer in 

 which the cell l)oundaries cannot be distinguished. The endoderm cells 

 have a more or less amoeboid character and send out protoplasmic 

 processes over the numerous 3'olk spheres. According to him the 

 middle endoderm (fourth quartet) contains onl}^ yolk granules and 

 does not take part directly in the formation of any organ. 



Throughout all these accounts one or two phenomena are constant. 

 e.g., the yolk breaks up into a large number of spherules which are later 

 absorbed by the endoderm cells. Witii regard to the development 

 of the canal itself there is some variation. In all the accounts at least 

 a portion of the canal is derived from the lower endoderm (macro- 

 meres). In some cases (Stylochus and Discoccelis) upper endoderm 

 cells are formed from the large j'olk cells. 



The account which I have to offer of the development of the ali- 

 mentary canal in Planocera inquUina differs from any of the above in 

 several particulars. At the time when the mesoblasts, Ad-'^- and 

 4d^---^, are preparing to divide, the two large entoblasts, Ad}'^ and Ad^'\ 

 are dividing (fig. 33). By this division two large cells, Ad'^'^- and Ad^'^-, 

 are budded into the interior of the embiyo. Soon after this these cells 

 divide again. At a considerably later stage the two cells Ad^-^-^ and 

 Ad^"^-^, -^vhich remained on the surface after the last division, divide 

 again, budding two more large cells into the lower ])art of the embryo. 

 At this time or shortly afterwards the ectoderm has covered this 

 region, and all six cells and their descendants originally derived from 

 the two primitive entoblasts, Ad^-^ and 4rf'-^, are on the interior of 

 the egg. 



Text fig. 3 shows in optical section an egg of a considerabl}' later 

 stage, in which a number of cells are lying just above the vegetative 

 pole. These cells, of which there are several more in the egg, all came 

 from the primitive entoblasts, 4f/'-^ and 4c/'-. By examining a large 

 nunib(M- of eggs it is found that these cells are in very active division 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC., 



and soon a large group of cells is found in this region (cf. fig. 36). A 

 careful study of the eggs themselves leaves no doubt but that they all 

 arise from the primitive entoblasts. PI. XXXIX, fig. 33, shows the 

 spindles for the first division of these cells. I have repeatedly found 

 eggs showing the second and later divisions of these cells, but in every 

 case it has been found impossible to make an intelligible drawing of the 

 egg. The fact that these eggs cannot be rotated under the cover glass 

 has added greatly to the labor of finding eggs suitable for study or 

 drawing. In this case it has effectually blocked all attempts to por- 

 tray a certain stage. The material itself, however, leaves no doubt 

 that the divisions take place as described. I have attempted to 

 embody the essential facts of these divisions in the schematic text 

 fig- 2. 



During all this time the very large nuclei of the three anterior cells 

 of the fourth quartet, 4a, 4b and 4c, can still be found (fig. 34). Pre- 

 vious to this time there has been some shifting of the relative positions 

 of the fourth cjuartet cells. At the time the mesentoblast cell is budded 

 into the interior (fig. 19) all the foiu- cells of this quartet lie in nearly 

 the same plane. The two lateral cells, 4a and 4c, are perhaps slightly 

 higher than the others. When 4d^ divides bilaterally these two cells 

 overlap 4a and 4c. With the further development of the mesento- 

 blast on the interior of the egg and the ectoblast on the outside, the 

 large cell 46 is pressed upwards. A narrow process from this cell runs 

 along the centre of the egg, and in this, reaching almost from one side 

 of the process to the other, lies the enormous nucleus of 46 (figs. 32 and 

 34). The nuclei of 4a and 4c are also pressed up along the sides, but 

 not so high as that of 46. These three cells are closely crowded 

 together, and while their boundaries remain distinct for some time 

 (fig. 32) they tend to become obliterated. 



In the meantime an interesting process has been going on within 

 these cells. As has been noted by all previous students, the yolk 

 granules tend to fuse together, thus forming homogeneous fat-like 

 drops. As Selenka and Lang have noted, this breaking up of the yolk 

 is not accompanied by nuclear division. The process is more or less 

 irregular, but one or two regular features can usually be recognized. 

 The first one of these spherules to be formed is from the anterior and 

 ventral portion of the cell 46. At first the centre of these spheres is 

 composed of granules, while around its periphery the granules dissolve 

 into a fluid substance. Soon j^fterwards smaller spheres appear in this 

 cell and in 4a and 4c. No nuclear division is concerned in this process, 

 for the undivided large nuclei of all three of these cells can be followed 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEM'HIA. 



543 



to a much later period. In or near the centre of many of these yolk 

 spheres a diffusely staining substance can be found when the egg is well 

 stained and cleared. This is not a nucleus, for it has no regular 

 boundaries anil often several such bodies are seen in a single yolk 

 spherule. They do not stain deeply, but appear as a sort of cloudy 

 material. These botlies may be merely the small portions of cyto- 

 plasm remaining in these large cells or, what seems more likely to me, 

 they may be of the nature of nuclear sap. If they were of a cytoplasmic 

 nature there is no reason why they should not show in earlier stages. 

 Instead they became evident only after the yolk begins to break up 

 into spherules. In many respects they resemble the archiplasmic 

 material often found around a nviclcus just after the nuclear mem- 



end 



Fig. 4. — Transverse section of an embryo, showing the ciUated lumen of the 

 alimentary canal. The endoderm cells are spreading over the yolk spheres. 

 end., endoderm; mes., mesoderm; ph., pharynx; y., yolk. 



brane has broken. Further, the large nuclei, which are at first spherical, 

 in the late stages become irregular in shape or even very much shrunken 

 (fig. 35). That these yolk granules should be broken up through the 

 action of enzymes coming from the nucleus is not at variance with the 

 modern views of nuclear activity. 



In such a case it seems probable that this material would become 

 aggregated at those places where the most rapid dissolving action is 

 going on. This offers an explanation for the relatively enormous size 

 of the nuclei of these three cells. These nuclei do not show evidences 

 of degeneration; instead the chromatin granules can be seen scattered 

 through the nucleus, often along distinct linin threads. 



After the ectoderm has covered the lower hemisphere of the egg it 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [I't'C.,, 



begins to invagiiiate in the region of the four small niacromeres. The 

 ectoderm pushes in and forms a small tube, which later becomes the 

 ])harYnx. Previous to this invagination the endoderm cells derived 

 from the divisions of 4c/^-^ and 4(/'- have formed a solid mass of cells 

 in the lower part of the embryo (fig. 36). Soon after the invagination 

 starts, the beginning of a lumen in the endoderm cells is apparent by the 

 separation of the cells (fig. 37). This lumen rapidly becomes large and 

 ciliated throughout (PI. XL, figs. 38, 39, text fig. 4). The canal is at 

 first bent towards the posterior side of the larva (fig. 38), but with its 

 further development and enlargement it pushes forward under the 

 ganglion (fig. 39). Distinct cell boundaries can seldom be made out 

 in the endodermal portions of the canal. The inner borders of these 

 cells surround the large yolk spherules. In many cases amoeboid cells 

 can be seen spread out on the surface of these yolk spheres. In the 

 oldest larvse which I was able to obtain (fig. 39) the canal showed no- 

 indications of the lateral branches which become evident in the adult 

 worm. In these larvae some of the reduced yolk spheres are still 

 jiresent. 



From the account I have given it will be seen that practically all 

 of the alimentary canal is derived from the two primary entoblasts, 

 4d^-^ and 4d^-". Certainly the larger portion of the canal has such an 

 origin. There are three other possible sources of a portion of the canal, 

 although no one of these forms any considerable amoimt of it. One 

 is that the pair of small cells, 4cF'^-^ and 4d^-\ derived from the further 

 division of the mesentoblast, may form a small portion of the endoderm. 

 The chief reason for suspecting this, is that these cells are formed and 

 remain exactly in the path of the future canal. The second possibility 

 is that the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 46, and 4d, may 

 contribute a small amount to the canal at a late period. I believe, 

 however, that such is not the case. The shrunken nuclei of these 

 three cells, which can be seen at the time the canal is forming (fig. 36), 

 indicate that these cells degenerate without dividing further. That 

 the shrunken condition of these nuclei is not a preparation for karyo- 

 kinetic division is, I believe, fully establislied by the fact that these 

 nuclei remain in this shrunken condition for a very long time. Their 

 al^ility to take up the stain gradually becomes less and less, and the last 

 that can be seen of them (fig. 36) shows a faint, very irregularly out- 

 lined nucleus, not at all resembling one about to divide by mitosis. 



The third possibility in this connection is that the four small macro- 

 meres may, instead of degenerating, contribute a portion to the 

 endoderm. The degenerating character of the nuclei of these cells and 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



the very small aiuoiint of cytoplasm seems to me to preclude such a 

 fate ill Planoccra. I cannot find or at least cannot recognize these 

 cells after the ectoderm has overgrown the lower pole of the egg, and so 

 1 am unable to follow tlieir later history. Text fig. 3 gives an accurate 

 representation of the condition of the nuclei of these cells at that stage, 

 which is about as late as I am able to follow them. These nuclei have 

 shown this same condensed condition of the chromatin almost from 

 the time of their formation (cf. figs. 17, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27). These 

 cells are proljably carried in with the invaginating pharynx and then 

 absorbed by the endoderm. I have sometimes found what I thought 

 were remains of these cells, but of this I cannot be certain. 



Discussion. 



We may now return to a comparison of the observations of previous 

 students with regard to the foin-th quartet, and especially Ad, in other 

 polyclad eggs. As has been already noted (p. 536) the peculiar bilateral 

 division of the posterior cell, Ad, has been known since the work of 

 Hallez (79). Hallez believed that this posterior cell divided without 

 an amphiaster, and regarded the product as not equivalent to the other 

 four cells, but in the nature of cell sap. Goette (82) states that in some 

 cases the cells 4a and 4c of our nomenclature also divide, so that there 

 are seven cells, on the surface of the embryo, formed from this quartet. 

 This happened£only in some of the eggs of Stylochus (Stylochopis) 

 pillidinm. In other eggs of the same species only the posterior cell 

 divided. In such cases Goette foimd that this cell often divided twice, 

 forming four cells, all on the surface of the egg. 



Lang (84) finds that in Discoccelis all the cells of this fourth quartet 

 divide at about the same time, but in different directions. The pos- 

 terior cell divides horizontally as described, while each of the other 

 three^cells buds into the interior of the egg a cell which he calls upper 

 endoderm. Lang says (p. 337) : "Es treten in ihnen [fourth quartet of 

 our system] Richtungsspindeln auf, und zwar wieder in der oft ange- 

 flihrten Reihenfolge. Die Richtungsspindel der grossten Stammzelle 

 des Entoderms [4a] verliingert sich excentrisch in der peripherischen 

 Verlangerung der Ebene, welche man sich durch diese Stammzelle und 

 die Hauptachse des Eies gelegt denken kann, und welche der jMediane- 

 bene entspricht." .... (P. 338): "Umnittelbar befor sich die grosste 

 Entodermstammzelle [Ad] in ihre zwei seitlichen Hiilften getheilt hat, 

 zeigen sich audi in den drei Uebrigen, Richtungsspindeln, die aber eine 

 ganz and ere Direction haben. Sie liegen niimlich parallel zur Haup- 

 tachse, d. h. sie zeigen eine dorsoventrale Richtung. Die drei 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



erwahnten Stammzellen ziehen sich in der That gegen den aboralen 

 Pol zu aiis, und schniiren schliesslich je eine Ideine Zelle ab, welche 

 unterdie IMesodermzellen [second and third quartets] zu liegen kommt." 

 These three cells Lang calls the upper endoderm, while the five cells 

 below he designates as the "mittler Entoderm." Goette (82) (p. 9) 

 also states that six or seven cells are budded into the interior of the 

 embrj^o of Stylochus as upper endoderm, but does not give further 

 information as to their exact origin. 



In Planocera inquilina, on the other hand, the three anterior cells of 

 the fourth quartet, viz., 4a, 46, and 4c, do not divide at this time nor 

 for a long time afterwards, if ever. The very large nuclei of these three 

 cells can be traced up until just before the formation of the alimentary 

 canal (fig. 36), and at this time they have not divided. The nuclei of 

 these cells, especially 46, become exceedingly large (fig. 32) and form- 

 excellent landmarks in the later stages. 



Wilson (98) finds and figures the bilateral division of 4tZ. He states 

 that the division of this cell into equal halves is an exception to the 

 rule, and that in about 90 per cent, of the eggs of Leptoplana the division 

 is markedly unequal (cf. his fig. 6, D, E and F). Wilson did not follow 

 the future division of these cells. He says (p. 22): "As regards the 

 iate of these cells, the inequality of 4d^ and 4(P [-id^-^ and M^-^] (often 

 very marked) is itself indirect evidence that they do not give rise to 

 symmetrical mesoblast bands as in the higher types, and I find no 

 evidence that either of them gives rise to mesoblast cells. Both seem to 

 have the same fate as the other entoblast cells, with which they exactly 

 agree in deutoplasmic structure, and enter into the formation of the 

 archenteron, as Lang has shown in the case of Discoccelis." 



It is peculiar that Lang should have observed 'cells budding into the 

 interior of the egg from three cells of the fourth quartet and not from 

 its other member, while I find that it is only this latter cell which 

 divides towards the interior, or in fact the only cell of this quartet that 

 divides at all. Lang gives figures of the spindles in the three anterior 

 cells of the fourth quartet in Discoccelis and also a detailed description 

 of these divisions. Although this work was done on living eggs, it 

 does not seem probable that so careful an observer would be mistaken 

 in the facts. We must conclude, then, that the three upper endoderm 

 cells of Discoccelis are in fact endoderm, and that this species differs 

 from Planocera in the division of the three anterior cells of the fourth 

 quartet. We would not be surprised to find such a coenogenetic 

 difference in different species of polyclads. Discoccelis perhaps shows 

 a more primitive condition in this respect, in that cells which are to 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lII LADKLPIII A. 547 



form part of the alimentary canal arise early from these three cells of 

 the fourth quartet. In Planoccra apparently most of the protoplasmic 

 material has been separated from the cells 4a, 4b, and 4c in the previous 

 divisions, and they now contain little more than a mass of yolk granules. 



Lang, no doubt, overlooked the internal budding of the posterior cell, 

 4d, if such occurs in Discococlis. This internal division of 4d in Plano- 

 cera is very evident and striking. In other particulars the cleavage of 

 Planocera inquilina is so similar to that of other polyclads that it is 

 difficult to believe that this species differs so fundamentally in respect 

 to 4d. As stated before, practically all the previous work on polyclad 

 embryology has been clone on the living eggs alone. Such a division 

 as the internal budding of 4d might easily be overlooked in the living 

 opaque eggs. On this basis we might well conclude that in all prob- 

 ability such a division was overlooked by Lang and his predecessors. 



Wilson, however, who imdoubtedly was on the lookout for just 

 such a division, did not find it in Leptoplana. Wilson says that 

 he does not attempt to "describe the cleavage of Leptoplana in 

 detail, but only indicate its leading features." I cannot but 

 believe that in this statement is contained the reason why Wilson 

 did not find mesoderm arising from 4d. A process so evident and 

 significant as these divisions of 4d in Planocera can scarcely be con- 

 ceived of as a coenogenetic character of one or even a few species of 

 polyclads. In annelids and mollusks the bilateral division of 4c? and the 

 origin of mesoderm bands from these cells is without exception in the 

 numerous species so far studied. Both Wilson and myself have now 

 shown that the ectoderm of polyclads is segregated in the first three 

 quartets of micromeres, and that the second quartet gives rise to some 

 mesoderm. This process, so exactly paralleled in mollusks and annelids, 

 can now scarcely be doubted as constant in its main features for all 

 polyclads. Whether such a uniformity in the origin of the mesoderm 

 from 4d will be found to hold throughout these Turbellaria can onl}^ be 

 proven by further investigations on other species. I believe that 

 certainly the weight of evidence is in favor of this uniformity. 



The resemblance in the behavior of 4d in the polyclads to the homo- 

 logous cell in annelids and mollusks becomes only more striking as we 

 consider the details of its divisions. It is true that in annelids and 

 mollusks 4d divides into two bilateral halves before it buds cells into 

 the interior, while in Planocera 4d first buds a single cell into the seg- 

 mentation cavity and then each of the two di\ddes bilaterally (figs. 

 19, 25, 26). In either case exactly the same result is reached, and the 

 delay of the bilateral cleavage for one-cell generation can certainly be 

 very easily accounted for as a coenogenetic modification. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. 



Conklin (97) was the first to point out that in the gasteropod Crepi- 

 dulas the cell 4d gave rise to both endoclerm and mesoderm. In Crepi- 

 dula four approximately equal cells are at first formed from M. The 

 two lower and external are pure entoblasts. Each of the two upper 

 cells later gives off another entoblastic cell before they give rise to the 

 mesoblast bands. Since that time numerous observers have found that 

 in both annelids and mollusks the cell 4d is mesentoblastic. Wilson 

 (98), in the paper so often referred to above, shows that a reinvestigation 

 of Nereis proves that a number of small eutoblast cells are budded off 

 from the two halves of 4d l^efore these form the mesodermal l)ands. 

 He also shows that a series of stages may be found in different annelids 

 and mollusks, ranging from a single pair of minute "vestigial " entoblast 

 cells in Aricia and Spio to Nereis where from six to ten small cells are 

 budded off, and to the condition in Crepidula where more than half the 

 bulk of 4d forms endoderm. Around these and other facts Wilson has 

 elaborated a beautiful theor}^ of ancestral reminiscence. To this series, 

 agreeing very closely with Crepidula, we may add the polyclad Plano- 

 cera inquilina. Here, as in Crepidula, the two lower superficial cells 

 derived from 4d are purely entoblastic and, as has been shown, give rise 

 to very nearly all of the alimentary canal. Two more small cells, 4(F-^-^ 

 and 4d^-^V, derived from the two upper cells of 4r/, are probably added to 

 the endoderm, while the remainder forms mesoderm. This close, almost 

 astonishing, agreement of Planocera with annelids and mollusks 

 cannot be without some significance. As Wilson (98) (p. 13) says: 

 "If we accept Lang's view, which is supported by a large amount of 

 evidence, that the platodes are not very far remo\'ed from the ancestral 

 prototype of annelids and mollusks, we should expect to find in the 

 polyclad a mode of cleavage to which that of the higher forms can in its 

 main features be red\iced." 



Before Wilson's work this resemblance between polyclads and higher 

 forms had seemed to be "only in the jorm of cleavage and not, so to 

 speak, in its substance." I believe that now this difficulty has been 

 entirely removed, and the polyclad cleavage not onl}^ conforms to the 

 higher types in its "main features" but, as we have seen, in many of 

 its details. These facts here set forth cannot l;)ut lend additional 

 W'eight to the view already expressed on comparative anatomical 

 grounds that the polyclads represent an offshoot from the same 

 ancestral branch which later gave rise to the annelids and mollusks. 

 On the other hand, it is a remarkable and interesting fact that phyla 

 which must have separated from the common stock and from each 

 other long ages ago still show such remarkable resemblances in their 




I'.X)?.] NATUltAI. SCIKXCKS OF IMH r.ADKLI'HI A. 549 



•early ontogenies. Vet I tliink lliis is the only intcrpretaticjn we can 

 put upon the facts. With our present knowledge of " Entwickelungs- 

 niechanilv" we cannot interpet these resemblances as due to external, 

 mechanical conditions. Why the ectoblast should be segregated in 

 three and only three quartets in polyclads, annelids, mollusks and, as 

 Biglow (02) has shown, in some crustacesc, and why in these same 

 grou{)s mesoderm should arise from the posterior or left posterior cell 

 of the fourth quartet and from no other of this quartet, are questions 

 wliich do not readily lend themselves to a mechanical explanation 

 under our present theories. We must for the present at least regard 

 these resemblances as facts of heredity and hence of phylogentic value. 



The origin of the alimentary canal in Planocera is unique among 

 animals, so far as I am aware. The whole of the alimentary canal arises 

 from a portion of the posterior cell of the fourth quartet, while the other 

 three cells of this quartet and all four of the macromeres are used as food 

 or degenerate and give rise to no morphological structure. Not one of 

 the last seven cells mentioned ever divides after its formation at the thirty- 

 two-cell stage. Surprising and unique as this phenomenon may be. it 

 does not necessarily invalidate our present conception of the develop- 

 ment of germ layers or their organs. Since the establishment of cell- 

 lineage work it has become well known that many embryonic cells are 

 formed in early stages which are destined never to divide again, nor to 

 take any further part in the organization of the embryo. Compare 

 for example the "turret" cells of certain mollusks as Crepidula {Conklin, 

 97). As has been pointed out, it is well known that in many annelids 

 and molluslcs the cell -id gives rise to a portion of the alimentary canal. 

 In these animals however the other three cells of this quartet as well 

 as the macromeres take part in the formation of the digestive tract. 

 Indeed these latter cells furnish the major portion of the alimentary 

 tissue. With these facts in mind, we must regard the condition of the 

 macromeres and the three anterior cells of the fourth quartet in Plano- 

 cera as reminiscent of a time when all eight of these cells took part in 

 the formation of the alimentary tract. Thus the embryology shows 

 that this worm is specialized in this respect and must long ago have 

 left the track which led on to annelids and mollusks. 



This peculiar development of the alimentary canal in the polyclads 

 offers the suggestion that it may be a step toward the development of 

 8uch forms as the acoelous rhabdocoeles, in which the alimentary canal 

 is altogether absent. But tiie embryology of these as well as other 

 turbellaria present such great variations from the type found in the 

 )iolyclads that it is useless to speculate along this line. 




550 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Summary. 



The cleavage of the eggs of Plcmocera inquilina Wh. until a late stage 

 (forty-four cells) is strictly spiral in the dextral sequence. 



Three quartets of ectomeres are given off in alternating dexiotropic 

 and Iseotropic directions. At the next division a fourth quartet is 

 formed, the cells of which are of very large size and contain most of 

 the yolk. The "macromeres" are very minute cells which remain at 

 the vegetative pole until the closure of the blastopore. The marked 

 degenerative character of their nuclei and the small amount of cyto- 

 plasm indicate that they degenerate without giving rise to any struc- 

 ture (p. 529). 



At the stage with forty cells there are formed at the animal pole 

 four small "apical" cells, which in their method and time of origin 

 correspond closely to the cells of the same name in annelids and 

 mollusks (p. 530). 



At the forty-four-cell stage the posterior cell of the fourth quartet, 

 M, buds a single large cell into the interior of the embryo. Both of 

 these cells, 4d^ and 4:(P, next divide bilaterally (p. 536). 



Of these four cells the two upper and inner give rise to a portion of 

 the mesoderm and possibly a small part of the endoderm (p. 537). The 

 lower pair of cells, lying on the surface of the embryo, give rise to prac- 

 tically all of the endodermal part of the alimentary canal (p. 541). 

 Thus the history of this cell, 4:d, shows a remarkable resemblance to 

 its homologue in mollusks and annelids. 



The three anterior cells of the fourth quartet, 4a, 46 and 4c, seem to 

 function only as the bearers of food yolk and apparently give rise to 

 no morphological structure. The very large nuclei of these cells can 

 be followed until the beginning of the pharyngeal invagination. The 

 yolk in these cells breaks up into spherules, probably through the 

 action of enzymes from the large nuclei. This liquified yolk is later 

 absorbed by the endoderm cells (p. 542). 



A large portion of the ectoderm is formed by the successive budding 

 or delimination of small cells from larger, deeper lying ones (p. 533). 



A portion of the mesoderm, chiefly that part lying around the 

 pharynx, is derived from cells of the second quartet, and thus corres- 

 ponds with the "secondary" mesoblast or "larval" mesenchyme of 

 annelids and mollusks (p. 535). 



In the spiral cleavage, the segregation of the ectoblast in three 

 quartets, the formation of a large part of the mesoderm from 4(i, the 

 formation of the apical cells, and in many other details the development 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPIIIA. 551 



of these platodes corresponds to that of annehds and mollusks. These 

 facts must tend to confirm the view that in their early history these 

 platodes were closely related to the two last mentioned phyla. 



On the other hand, in the development of the entire alimentary 

 canal from a portion of the mesentoblast, 4.d, and in the consequent 

 degeneration of the "macromeres" and of the remaining cells of the 

 fourtii quartet, this polyclad is unique. This peculiar development of 

 the alimentary tract shows that the cleavage of the polyclads, while 

 closely resembling that of other groups, is not a generalized t}'pe. 




i^rv2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



+ 



o3S 





« I "^ 



-^ 






1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



553 





K? 



Kl 



Cq 



CQ 



k; 




554 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



+ 

 o 



asp^ 



s 5 ' 





ie 1 '^ 



C:^ 




i9o; 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIILADKLl'HI A. 



555 



^S. 



|5|§||S 



+ 



o 



2 







it S) 



«fc3 



^t'K; 



%s Is 






5o6 proceedings of the academy of [dec. 



Literature. 



BiGFOW, M. A. 1902. The Early Developiiient of Lepas. Bull. Mas. Comp. 



Zoo. Harvard College, XL, No. 2. 

 Blochmann, F. 1883. Beitriige zur Keniitniss der Entwickelungs der Gas- 



teropoden. Zeit. f. Wiss. Zool., XXXVIII. 

 Casteel, C. D. 1904. The Cell Lineage and Early Development of Fiona 



Marine, a Nudibranchiate MoUusk. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904. 

 CoNKLiN, E. G. 1891. Note on the Embryology of Crepidula fornicata and 



Urosalpinx cinera. John Hop. Univ. Circ, X, No. 88. 



1892. The Cleavage of the Ovum of Crepidula fornicata. Zool. Am., XV. 



1897. The Embryology of Crepidula. Journ. Morph., XIII. 



- — 1902. Karyokinesis and Cytokinesis in the Maturation, Fertilization and 



Cleavage of Crepidula and other Gasteropods. Journ. Acad. Nat. iSci. 



Phila., 2d Series, XII, 1. 

 — - — 1905. The Organization and Cell Lineage of the Ascidiau Egg. Journ. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., XIII, pt. 1. 

 Child, C. M. 1900. The Early Development of Arenicola and Sternapis. 



Arch. Entw. Mech., IV. 

 P^isiG, Hugo. 1898. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Capitelliden. Milth. 



Zool. Stat. Neap., XIII. 

 Fhancotte, R. 1898. Recherches sur la Mat. la Fecond. et la segm. chez des 



Pol3'clads. Arch, de Zool. Exp. et Gen., 3* ser., VI. 

 Gardiner, E. G. 1895. The Early Development of Polychoerus caudatus 



Mark. Journ. Morph., XI. 

 1898. The Growth of the Ovum, Formation of the Polar Bodies and the 



Fertilization in Polychoerus caudatus. Journ. Morph., XV. 

 GiRARD, Charles. 1846-7. Sur I'embryogenie des Planaires. Bull, de la 



Societe des Sci. Nat. de Neuchdtel, II. 



1848. On the Development of Planocera elliptica. Pi-oc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 



Hist., III. 



1854. Researches upon Nemerteans and Planarians. I. Embryological 



Development of Planocera elliptica. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., II. 



GoETTE, Alexander. 1878. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Seeplanarian. 

 Zool. Am., I. 



1881. Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Wurmer. Zool. Anz.,1. 



1882. Abhandlungen zur Entw. der Thiere — 1: Untersuchungen zur 



Entw. der Wiirmer. Leipsig, 8°. 

 Graff, L. V. 1892. Pelagische Polycladen. Zeit. f. Wiss. Zool, 55. 

 Hallez, Paul. 1878. a. Contributions a I'histoire des Turbellaries, V* note 



sur la d^veloppement. Bull. Scient. du Depart, du Nord. 2'"" ser., 1''* annee, 



pp. 193-195. 



1878. b. Considerations au sujet de la segmentation des oeufs. Ibidem, 



pp. 227-229. 



1878. c. Contributions a I'histoire des Turbellaries. Ibidem, pp. 250-260. 



1878. d. Considerations sur la determination des plans de segm. dans 



Temb. du Leptoplana tremellaria. Ibidem, pp. 264-266. 



1879. Contributions a I'histoire nat. des Turbellaries. Lille; also in 



Trovaux de V Instil. Zool. de Lille et de la Stat, rnarit. de Wi7nereux, Fas. II. 



Heath, Harold. 1899. The Development of Ischnochiton. Zool. Jahrb., 

 Abth. f. Anat. u. Ontog., XII. 



Hetmons, Richard. 1893. Zur Entwick. von Umbrella medit. Lara. Zeit. 

 f. Wiss. Zool., 56. 



Holmes, S. J. 1897. Secondary Mesoblast in the Mollusca. Science, N. S., VI. 



1900. The Early Development of Planorbis. Journ. Morph., XVI. 



Jennings, H. S. 1895. The Earlv Development of Asplanchna Herriclci 



DeGuerne. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. Coll., XXX. 

 Keferstein, Welh. 1868. Beitrjige zur Anat. u. Entw. einiges Seeplanarian 



von St. Malo. Abhnnd. d. Konigl. Gesell. der Wiss. zu Goftingen, XIV. 

 KoFOiD, C. A. 1894. On Same Laws of Cleavage in Limax. Proc. Am. Acad. 



Arts and Sci., N. S., XXI. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES 01-^ IMIILADKLIMII A. 557 



KouscHELT, E., and IIkioek, K. 1893. Lflirl>ucli dcr vcrglinchcMdru JmiIw. 



der Wirbillosseu Tliicre. 8p. Thcilt-, Jena. 

 Lang, Ahnolu. 18S-i. Die I'olycladen, des Golfes von Xeapel. Fauna, u. 



Flora d. (Jolfes v. Neap., XI. 

 LiLLiE, V. K. 1895. The Embryology of the Unionidie. Journ. Morph., X. 

 Mead, A. 1). 1897. The Early Development of Marine AnneUds. Journ. 



Morph., Xlll. 

 Meyeh, E. 1887. Studien uben den Korperbau dcr Aiuiclidcn. Mlth. Zaol. 



aiat. Neap., VII. 

 — — 1890. Die Abstammung der Anneliden. Biol. Cent., M. X. 

 Nelson, J. N. 1904. The Early Development of Dinophilus. Proc. Acad. 



Nat. iici. Phila., October, 1904. 

 Pereyaslawvew. Mlle. S. 1885. Sur le developpement des Turbellari^s. 



Zool.Anz., \1II. 

 Repiachofk, W. 1885. Nachtrag zu Perevaslawvew's Devel. des Turbel. 



Zool. Am., Mil. 

 Selenka, Emil. 1881. a. Die Keimbliitter der Planarion. SUzungsher. der 



Physik-Medic. Soc. zu Erlanger, No. 14. Trans, in Ball. Sci. Dept. du Nord. 



18SI. b. Tiir Entwickelungsgeschichte der Seeplanarien. Biol. Cent., 



Bd. 1. 



1881. c. Zool. Studien — II: Zur Entw. der Seeplanarien. Ein Beitrag 



zur Keinibliitterlehre und Desocudenz Tiieorie. Leipsig. 



1881. d. Ueber eine eigen Ihuniliche Art der Kernmetamorphose. Biol. 



Cent., Bd. 1. 



Suuface, F. M. 1907. Note on the Origin of the Mesoderm of the Polyclad 

 Planocera inquilina Wh. Science, \. S., \'ol. XXV", p. 732. 



TouREY, J. C. 1902. The Early Development of the Mesoblast in Thalassema. 

 Anat. Am., XXI. 



1903. The Early Embryology of Thalassema Mellita (Conn). Ann. N. 



Y. Acad. Sci., XIV. 



Tk?:dwell, a. L. 1901. The C)'togeny of Podarke obscura Ver. Journ. 



Morph., XVII. 

 Vaillant, Leon. 1866. Sur le developpement dvi Polycelis la)\'igatus, Quatref . 



L' Institute, I Sect., Tome XXXIV. 



1868. Pemarques snr la developpement d'une Planari^e dendrocele de 



Quatref. Mem. de L'Acad. des Sci. et Lettres de Montpellier, T. VII. 



\'an' Ben'Eden, Edouard. 1870. Reserches sur la composition et la Significa- 

 tion de I'oeuf. Memoires, couromes et mem. des Savants etranger publics par 

 I' Acad. Royal, de Belgique, Tome 34, Bruxelles. 



Wheeler, W. M 1894. Planocera inquilina, a Polyclad inhabiting the 

 Branchial (^hamber of Sycotypus canaliculatus Gill. Journ. Morph., IX, 



Whitman, C. O. 1878. The Embrj-ologv of Clep.sine. Quart. Journ. Micr. 

 Sci., XVIII. 



1891. Spermatophoros as a means of Hypodermic Impregnation. Journ. 



Morph., IV. 



AVir.so.v, E. B. 1892. The Cell Lineage of Nereis. Jourti. Morph., Yl. 



1894. The Embryological Criterion of Homologv. Woods IIoll Biol. 



Lect., 1894. 



1898. Considerations on Cell Lineage and Ancestral Reminiscences. 



Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., XI. 



— 1899. Cell Lineage and Ancestral Heminiscences. Woods [Foil Biol. 



Lect., 1899. 



Explanation of Plates XXX\'-XL. 



All figures of fixed and stained eggs, except fig. 35, were' drawn with Zeiss 

 Camera lucida at table level imder Leitz obj. j\; oc. 2. Figures of living eggs 

 (viz., figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 11) were drawn as above, Init with Loitz obj. 7; 

 oc. 2. Fig. 35 was drawii with B and L. obj. ^\; oc. 1. All drawings hav<> 

 been reduced one-third. 




55S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Reference Letters. 



e., entoblasts 4d^-'-i and -id^-^-K nAb., nucleus of the cell 46. 



end., eudodenu. ph., pharynx. 



ey., eye. r., rhabdites. 



g., gangUon. y., yolk. 

 mes., mesoderm. 



Plate XXXV. — Fig. 1. — Living egg before fu-st maturation division, showing 



large germinal vesicle. 

 Fig. 2. — Living egg duiing the second maturation division, shomng amoeboid 



processes. 

 Fig. 3. — Living egg after second maturation division. 

 Fig. 4. — Living egg during the first division. The cell C-D is slightly larger 



"than A-B. 

 Fig. 5. — Stained egg in the second division. From left side, showing the 



crossing of the spindles. 

 Fig. 6. — Living egg in the four-cell stage, from the animal pole. 

 Fig. 7. — Formation of the first quartet. From right side, showing dexio- 



tropic cleavage. 

 Fig. 8. — Living egg in the eight-cell stage. From animal pole. 

 Plate XXXVI. — Fig. 9. — Lseotropic division of the preceding eight cells. The 



spindles in the D quadrant show an advance over the others. From 



the animal pole. 

 Fig. 10. — Living egg with sixteen cells. From the animal pole. 

 Fig. 11. — Same as fig. 10, but from vegetative pole. 

 Fig. 12. — Dexiotropic divisions of cells la^-ld' and of 2a-2d. From animal 



pole. 

 Fig. 13. — Thirty-two cells. Dexiotropic divisions of la^-'-ld^-^ From 



animal pole. 

 Fig. 14. — Thirty-two cells, showing dexiotropic formation of 3a and 3c. 



Vegetative pole. 

 Fig. 15. — Thirty-two cells from vegetative pole, shoTving spindles for forma- 

 tion of 46 and 4d. 

 Plate XXXVII. — Fig. 16. — Same as Fig. 15, from right side. 



Fig. 17. — Thirty-six cells from near vegetative pole. Spindle in 2c^ 2a^ 



and 2(P have divided. 

 Fig. 18. — Thirty-nine cells. From animal pole, showang lseotropic forma- 

 tion of apical cells. 

 Fig. 19. — Forty-five cells, from the right posterior side. Shows the first 



division of the mesentoblast 4d. 2d^ also dividing. 

 Fig. 20. — Forty-seven cells. From vegetative pole. 

 Fig. 21. — About the same stage as fig. 20,draT\Ti from the right side, shows 



the unequal di\asion of 2c' and 2bK Also spindles in Ic^-' and W-^. 



la'-^-ld^'^ have divided dexiotropically (see fig. 22). 

 Plate XXXVIII. — Fig. 22. — Slightly older egg than fig. 21, dra-^Ti from left 



upper side. Shows division of la'-'-^-ld'-'-^ and of 1¥-'^. la'-^ and 1¥'^ 



have divided previously. Also shows losotropic di^ision of la^-'-ld^'. 

 Fig. 23.— Still older egg, sho\\ang the same division as fig. 22, but more 



advanced. From animal pole. 

 Fig. 24. — Egg from animal pole, showing preceding diAdsions completed and 



dexiotropic division of Id''-''. Also the bilateral division of 4d^ 

 Fig. 25. — Similar stage from vegetative pole. Shows spindle for bilateral 



division of 4d^ Also lseotropic division of 2a^'-2d^^ 3d preparing to 



di^^de. 

 Fig. 26. — Shows division of 4d^ completed and spindle in 4d'. Also shows 



di\asion of 2d^ and 2b^, of 3d and 3b, and of 2a^-\ 

 Fig. 27. — Similar stage from the left side. Shows division of 2a^-*, 4d' and 



2b--''; also of la^-^-K 

 Plate XXXIX. — Fig. 28.— Egg from animal pole, showing di^^sions of la'-'-^'- 



Id'-'-^-^; also of la'-^-i and Ic'-'-K 




11)07.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



Fig. 29. — Similar vievr of sliKhtly older egg, showing preceding ^divisions 

 completed and the resulting small superficial cells la»-i-2-2-'_id'-'--^'. 



Fig. 30. — Egg from near the vegetative pole, showing division of 4d' com- 

 pleted and budding in of the cells 26'-' and 2d'-'. 



Fig. 31. — Egg from animal pole at slightly later stage than fig. 29. Shows 

 divisions of 4cP' and 4:d--\ The resulting sniall cells 4cP'-' and 4cP''-^ 

 are probably entoblasts. 



Fig. 32. — Optical section from animal pole, showing the cells 2a|'-2d'-* 

 budding mesoderm to the interior. Also shows the large nuclei of 46, 

 4a and 4c. 



Fig. 33. — Later stage, showing the internal divisions of the entoblasts 4d' 

 and 4d\ Not all the cells on the interior of the egg are shown. 

 Plate XL. — Fig. 34. — Optical section of egg from the posterior side. The 

 entoblasts 4d'-* and 4d'-^ have di\dded once 'and possibly twice. The 

 two small entoblasts 4fF-'-i and 4fp-2-' are shown vidth dark nuclei. 

 Aliove these are the two small mesoblasts, while the larger mesoblasts 

 4f/2-'-^-2 and icP-''-'^-^ are again dividing. Above these are a number of 

 cells from the first quartet which later form the ganglion. The large 

 nuclei of 4a, 46 and Ac are shown in dotted outlines. 



Fig. 3o. — Optical section of an egg \iewed from near the vegetative pole. 

 The derivatives of 4.(P are stippled. The division of 4(P-'-^-' and 4cP-2-2-» 

 indicated in fig. 34 are now completed and the beginning of the meso- 

 dermal bands is evident. In many eggs the divisions are not so regular 

 as sliOA\Ti here. Instead the mesoderm tends to form clusters of cells 

 rather than bands. 



Fig. 36. — Optical section of a much later stage. From the left side. The 

 mass of endoderm derived from 4d' Ues just above the future pharynx. 

 The mesoderm cells have passed to the periphery and the centre of the 

 egg is filled with the homogeneous yolk spheres (?/), in wMch the shrunken 

 nucleus of 46 can be seen"(M.46.). The two small cells marked (e) are 

 probably the entoblast 4d^-^-^ and 4d'-^-^. ' 



Fig. 37.— Optical section of an older embryo. From the posterior side. 

 '■' Shows ectodermal pharynx and beginning of lumen in the endoderm. 



Fig. .3S.— Actual longitudinal section of a still older embryo, showing the 

 backward turn of the aUmentary canal in this stage. 



Fig. 39. — Longitudinal section of a MuUer's larva. Nearly all the yolk 

 spheres have disappeared by this time and the ahmentary canal is 

 greatly enlarged but still unbranched. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC,,, 



OBSEBVATIONS HADE IN 1907 ON GLACIEBS IN ALBERTA AND 

 BRITISH COLUMBIA 



BY GEORGE, JR., AND WILLIAM S. VAUX. 



But few vital changes are to be noted from year to year in the 

 glaciers of these regions, and yet a careful observation of what is 

 taking place may in time throw some additional light on the problems 

 of glacier action which as yet remain unsolved. This can be our only 

 apology for again presenting to the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia the results of the work done on the several glaciers in 

 Alberta and British Columbia in August, 1907, which is a continuation 

 of that first begun on the Illecillewaet Glacier twenty years ago. 



As a preliminary it may be stated that the winter and early spring 

 of 1907 were cold and backward. Immense banks of snow collected in 

 the valleys and even covered the glacier tongues till the spring was 

 fully opened ; snow fell much later than usual at normal elevations, and 

 much larger banks were noted on the mountainsides than for many 

 years. Rain and a deficiency of sunlight retarded melting, so that 

 much more snow remained in the fall, both in the valleys and the 

 higher slopes, and it is probable that many snowbanks had not entirely 

 disappeared before the winter falls set in. 



Illecillewaet Glacier. 

 Glacier House, British Columbia, 



Recession. — With the above conditions in mind, it is interesting to 

 note that on August 12, 1907, the tongue of ice of the Illecillewaet 

 Glacier was 382 feet above the marked rock "C," which has been the 

 datum point since August 17, 1898, or a recession of fifty-five feet since 

 July 24, 1906. The above measurement was made from the datum, 

 rock to the ice along a line parallel with the axis of the glacier. 



Measurements made to the nearest ice farther to the east of this line, 

 which was established several years ago, would doubtless show a much 

 smaller recession, but it would seem that in fairness the measurement 

 points should be kept as nearly as possible in the same straight line 

 from year to year. It, however, appears to be a fact that the tongue 

 or point of greatest extension of this glacier lies many feet to the east 

 of the position of ten years ago. 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELrillA. 



561 



'Test Picture. — The annual test picture was taken from Rock W, on 

 August 19, 1907, and shows a continued shrinkage on both sides and 

 in dei)th of the ton<j;ue. This last feature is particularly marked when 

 walking over the slopes of ice on a line with the test plates. When the 

 location for these was selected it was largely on account of the even 

 slope and inicrevassed siu'faces. Now great crevasses are found, but 

 particularly on the left side, and the slope in places approximates 35 

 degrees, whereas ten years ago it was but 22 degrees. A careful study 

 of the rock at the sides of the ice stream and the probable form of the 

 bed on which the glacier flows would indicate that the tongue has now 

 almost reached the upper edge of the nearly flat bed moraine which has 

 been gradually uncovered for at least twenty years, and should reces- 

 sion continue the ice edge will begin to mount over ledges of bed rock 

 which have been worn and polished for ages beneath the glacier mass. 



Flow of the Glacier above the Tongue. — The six steel plates laid out 

 on July 12, 1906, were located again on August 12, 1907, after a period 

 of exactly thirteen months or 396 days. After a good deal of difficulty 

 they were all found, but it was not possible to triangulate the position 

 of No. 6 on the extreme left of the glacier, which had taken a position 

 on a blade of ice between two very deep crevasses, and so far below the 

 general level of the glacier that a tower forty feet high would have been 

 required to bring the stadia within the field of view of the transit. 



The following table gives the total motion of the five plates during the 

 interval of thirteen months, and the average daily motion computed 

 from this total. In the last cohmm has been repeated the observed 

 daily motion of these plates laid out on July 12, 1906, and located 

 again twelve days later.^ 



Motion of 1906 Plates on Surface of Illecillewaet Glacier, July 12, 1906, 



to August 12, 1907. 



Number of 

 Plate. 



Total motion 396- 

 day interval 

 (inches) . 



Average daily mo- 

 tion 396-day in- 

 terval (inches). 



Average daily mo- 

 tion twelve-day 

 interval summer 

 of 1906 (inches). 



960 

 1,056 

 2,136 

 2,66-4 

 2,436 



Plate lost. 



7.00 

 11.33 



9.75 

 10.25 



8.85 



» Compare "Observations made in 1906," Proc. Acad. Nat. Set. Philn., Decem- 

 ber, 1900, pp. 573, 574. 

 37 




5G2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



AsuLKAN Glacier. 

 Glacier House, British Columbia. 



Changes in Tongue. — The same record of breaking down and reces- 

 sion must be made of this glacier, and indeed the changes noted are 

 more marked than for several years. The right side is melting rapidly, 

 with the result that the stream of ice is becoming narrower. On the 

 left side there is not so much change, owing to the mantle of moraine 

 which retards melting. There is much less ice at the tongue than last 

 year and recession is marked. The general siurface of the ice is rougher 

 and there are many crevasses at the line of plates where last year even 

 slopes were found. The large rock marked in 1899 was found to rest in 

 its original position, though heaped all around with fresh moraine. 

 The distance from this rock on August 15, 1907, to the thin tongue of 

 ice w^as found to be 54 feet 6 inches, showing that amount of recession 

 since last year.^ 



The Flow of Glacier above Tojigue. — On August 15, 1907, the position 

 of the plates laid out on July 13, 1906, was determined, giving the 

 motion of the ice for a period of about thirteen months or 398 days. The 

 results are given in the following table, to which have been added the 

 data obtained in 1906 of the rate of summer motion of the same plates, 

 covering a ten-day interval. 



Motion of 1906 Plates on Surface of Asulkan Glacier, July 13, 1906, to 



August 15, 1907. 



Victoria Glacier. 

 Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada. 

 This glacier was visited on August 8, 1907, during a long period of 



' Compare "Observations made in 1906," Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Decem- 

 ber, 1906, p. 575. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 563 



storm. The changes, though not marked, arc all in the line of shrinkage 

 and recession. The tongue, still buried in moraine, is not different from 

 previous years, but the steep slopes of ice on the left side are gradually 

 retreating and depositing masses of bowlders on the ground moraine 

 below. The large angular blocks whicli fell from the ice in 1899 are 

 now 126 feet from the edge of ice, which indicates a further retreat of 

 fifty-two feet since July 30, 1906. The large boulder on the ice surface 

 has moved many feet down with the ice, but owing to the bad weather 

 and dense fog which obscured the line points it was not possible to 

 determine the changes with any accuracy. 



YoHo Glacier. 

 Yorio Valley, Field, British Columbia. 



This glacier was visited on August 19, 1907. It has receded very 

 appreciably the past j^ear, particularly on the left side, where many 

 acres of roches moutonne have been left bare or covered with masses 

 of moraine. Some of these are glaciated and graved most beautifully, 

 and many small spherical quartzite pebbles about the size of marbles 

 and quite as true w^ere found in pockets where they had been deposited. 



The right side of the glacier does not appear to have changed so 

 greatly, probably owing to the form of glacier bed and the increased 

 pressure of ice on this side. 



As with other examples in this region, the point of greatest extension 

 of the glacier is a very long blade-like tongue extending in one of the 

 trough-like grooves parallel with the axis of the glacier. Measuring 

 from the bed rock marked on August 17, 1901, to this ice the distance 

 was found to be 147 feet 4 inches, or a recession of 70 feet for 

 the year. If, however, the line is taken in the same direction as 

 previous years the distance was 423 feet, or 346.3 feet recession. 

 This is the greatest change which has been noted in any glacier in this 

 region since observations were recorded. 



As a conclusion it may be noted that the yearly average flow of the 

 ice streams continues about as in previous years, but the recession of 

 the tongues, shrinkage and breaking dow^n is increasingly marked. The 

 Asulkan Glacier, which for several years was stationary or slightly ad- 

 vancing, has this year showed marked retreat and shrinkage, and the 

 same is the case wdth the Victoria Glacier. Preceded by a cold and 

 stormy winter and a summer with low average of sunshine and low 

 temperature, these conditions point to an interesting series of changes 

 which may ultimately throw some light on the relation between 

 weather conditions and glacier change. 




564 PBOCEEDIXG3 OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



The following reports were orde-ed to be printed : 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRET.AJIY. 



Fifteen meetings of tlie Academy were held during the past year, 

 with an average attendance of thirty-seven. Commmiications, many 

 of which were illustrated by lantern slides, were made by Messrs. 

 George. Jr.. and William S. Yaux. H. A. Pilsbn-. H. E. Wetherill. Henry 

 Leffman. Howard W. DuBois, E. G. Conklin. S. G. Dixon. A. E. Brown, 

 P. P. Calvert, Henry Skioner, J. W. Harshberger, Joseph Willcox, 

 Burnett Smith. Witmer Stone. F. L. Garrison and Benjamin Sharp. 



Forty papers have been presented for publication by the following 

 authors : Qarence B. Moore, 4: H. A. Filsbri-. 4: Henry W. Fowler, 3; 

 James A. G. Rehn. 3: Thomas H. Montgomery. 2: J. Percy Moore, 2; 

 Burnett Smith. 2; R. W. Shufeldt, 2: H. E. witherill, 1: H. A. Pilsbry 

 and James H. Ferris. 1: C. P. Gillette. 1: George, Jr.. and William S. 

 Yaux, 1 : James A. Xelson. 1 ; Theodore Gill. 1 : Harold Heath. 1 : Arthur 

 M. Edwards, 1; J. Chester Bradley, 1: Howard Crawley, 1: E. G. 

 Yanatta. 1 ; J. A. G. Rehn and M. Hebard. 1 : Helen Dean King. 1 : H. ■ 

 E. Enders. 1; E. G. ConMin, 1; Clayton F. Palmer. 1; W. H. Dall. 1; 

 and Witmer Stone, 1. Four of these have been accepted for pubhca- 

 tion in the Jousxal, twenty-nine for the Proceedings : six have been 

 rettimed to the authors, and one is stiU held imder advisement. 



One hundred and ninety pages of the Peoceedlngs for 1906. with 

 fourteen plates and two maps, and four himdred and sixteen pages 

 and thirty plates, constituting Part 3 of Yol. 58 and Parts 1 and 2 of 

 Yol. 59. have been published and distributed. The four papers by ^Ir. 

 Moore f«rm the third number of Yol. All! of the Joihbxae, one hun- 

 dred and forty-three beautifully illustrated pages, for which we are 

 indebted to the author who defraj's the entire cost of pubhcation. 



The Entomological Section has published four hundred and fift}-- 

 eight pages of the Extomologicajl Xews, with seventeen plates, and 

 two hundred and mnet\--seven pages, with four plates, of the Traxs- 

 Acnoxs OF THE AviERiCAX ExTOMOLOGicAL SociETT (Entomological 

 Section of the Academy). Of the Maxttal of Coxchologt two hun- 

 dred and twenty-six pages and thirty^even plates have been issued. 



Six members and four correspondents have been elected. The 

 deaths of eight members and three correspondents have been announced. 






11)07.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELl'lIIA. 665 



Eight resignations of membership have been received as follows: 

 Judson Daland, W. P. Stokes, George M. Woodward, Marian G. Nimlet, 

 Lightner "Witmer, L. H. Carpenter, 11. D. Barclay, and Henry Emer- 

 son Wetherill. 



Although the iinj^rovetl design for the Hayden Memorial Medal was 

 accepted in 190G. as stated in my last annual report, the engraved 

 dies were not received from the Gorham Company until last April. 

 The medal, the work of John Flanagan, of New York, was then cast 

 by Messrs. Krider & Co., of Philadelphia, and has met with general 

 approval, the portrait and the emblematic reverse being regarded as 

 imi)rovements on the design of the token formerly awarded. The 

 Academy has been forced by a variety of circumstances to defer the 

 actual presentation of the medal to Dr. Wolcott until the first meeting 

 of January, when a reception wdll be tendered the distinguished 

 recipient. 



The President was authorized to appoint representatives to the 

 Centenary Celebration of the Geological Society of London, and to the 

 observance of the two hundredth anniversary of the l)irthday of 

 Linnspus by the New York Academy of Sciences. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary regrets the necessity of recording the 

 death during the past year of the following named correspondents: 

 Mr. Frederick C. Stearns, Sir Joseph Fayrer, Prof. Edmund von 

 Mojsisovics, and Prof, Lucien M. Underwood. There were elected Mr. 

 P. Chalmers ^Mitchell, of the Zoological Society of London; Prof. J. W. 

 van Wijhe, of the University of (ironingen ; Prof. Otto zur Strassen, of 

 the University of Leipzig, and Dr. R. Bowdlcr Sharpe, of the British 

 Museum. 



Notices announcing the deaths of five scientific men of prominence 

 were received and suitably acknowledged on behalf of the Academy. 

 Upon the receipt of official invitations delegates representing the 

 Academy were appointed l)y the President as follows: To the Tri- 

 centennial Anniversary of the birth of Ulisus Aldrovandi, Prof. Gio- 

 vanni Capellini, a correspondent; to the Seventh Liternational Zoo- 

 logical Congress, Prof. E. G. Conklin, Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry Dr. 




566 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC, 



Benjamin Sharp, Mr. Witnier Stone and Dr. J. Perc}^ Moore; to the 

 Centenary Anniversary of the founding of the Geological Society of 

 London, Sir Archibald Geikie, a correspondent; and to the exercises in 

 New York commemorating tlie two hundredth anniA'ersary of the birth 

 of Linnfeus, Mr. Witmer Stone. Invitations to participate were received 

 for the dedication exercises of the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburg, 

 the eightieth anniversary of the Imperial Geographical Society of 

 Russia, the Fourth International Fishery Congress, the Prehistoric 

 Congress of France, the Delegation for the Choice of an International 

 Auxiliary Language, the Fiftieth Anniversary of the founding of the 

 Parsony Medical and Physical Society, and a memorial meeting to the 

 late Samuel Pierpont Langley. Suitable letters or addresses were in 

 each case forwarded. 



A noteworthy event of late summer was the meeting in this country 

 of the Seventh International Zoological Congress. Upon the invita- 

 tion of a committee representing many of the scientific and educational 

 institutions of Philadelphia, and which held its meetings at this 

 Academy, a large delegation from the Congress, including upwards of 

 seventy foreign members, visited this city on September 2 and 3. 

 Among the visitors were many distinguished zoologists, including two 

 correspondents of the Academy, Dr. Raphael Blanchard, of Paris, and 

 Prof. A. A. W. Hubrecht, of Utrecht. The programme of entertain- 

 ment was very successfully carried out, both at the Academy and the 

 other institutions that were visited, and was very enjoyable to visitors 

 and hosts alike. 



An increased number of letters requesting information on subjects 

 of scientific interest were received and answered. 



Statistics of the correspondence follow : 



Communications Received. 



Acknowledgingreceiptof the Academy's publications, 162 



Transmitting publications, 72 



Requesting exchanges or the supplj^ of deficiencies, 2 



nvitations to learned gatherings, 9' 



Notices of death of scientific men, 5 



Circulars relating to the administration of scientific institutions, etc., . . 11 



Biographies of correspondents, 6 



Photographs of correspondents, 5 



Miscellaneous letters, 117 



Total received, 389 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELrillA. 5G7 



Communications Forwarded, 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1,02- 



Acknowledgiiiij; gifts to the -Museum, "7 



Acknowledging pliotographs and biographies 7 



Requesting the supply of defieieneies in journal-^ 85 



Correspondents' diplomas and notices of election, 2 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation and addresses, 9 



Miscellaneous letters, 1 36 



Copies of annual reports sent to correspondent;. 213 



Circular letters, 95 



Total forwarded, 1,646 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



Additions to the Library have been received during the year as 

 follows : 



Pamphlets and parts of periodicals 5,790 



Volumes 941 



Maps 157 



Photograpiis, 21 



Total 6,909 



They were received from the following sources : 



I. V. WiUiamson Fund 2,406 



Societies, Museums, etc 2,377 



Editors 640 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 438 



United States Department of the 



Interior 230 



General Appropriation 211 



Authors 138 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 86 



AVilson Fund 29 



Pennsylvania State Department 



of Agriculture 25 



Geological Survey Department, 



Canada 23 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 20 



MinistSre des Travaux Publics, 



France 18 



Comit6 G^ologique Russe 16 



Imperial Geological Survey, Japan 13 

 United States Treasury Depart- 

 ment 



Ministerio de Colonizacion y Agri 



coltura, Bolivia 



United States War Department... 



Department of Mines, Victoria 10 



Department of the Interior, 



Canada 9 



Department of the Interior, 



Philippines 9 



Geological Survey of India 9 



Ministerio de Foinento, Peru 8 



Trustees of British Museum 8 




568 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Department of Agriculture in 



India 8 



United States Bureau of Fisheries 7 

 International Bureau American 



Republics 7 



Department of Agriculture, Ja- 

 maica 7 



Cape of Good Hope, Department 



of Agriculture 7 



Commission Geologique de Fin- 



lande 6 



Department van Landbouw, Java 6 

 Western Australia Geological Sur- 

 vey 6 



Facultad de Agronomia y Veteri- 



naria. La Plata 5 



Maryland Geological Siu-vey 5 



Observatoire Centrale Nicholas 5 



United States Public Health and 



Marine Hospital Service 4 



Dr. Thomas Biddle 4 



Publication Committee Academy 4 

 Connecticut Geological and Na- 

 tural History Survey 4 



Wisconsin Geological and Natural 



History Survey 4 



Commission de la Belgica 4 



Bureau of American Ethnology.... 3 



Biuroului Geologicu, Roumania.... 3 

 Geological Commission, Cape of 



Good Hope 3 



Geological Survey of New Jersey. 3 

 Agricultural College Survey of 



North Dakota 2 



Dr. S. Solis-Cohen 2 



Department of Fisheries, New 



South Wales 2 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Fisheries 2 



Instituto Geologico de Mexico 2 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 



Trustees of the Indian Museum 2 



Missouri Bureau of Geology and 

 Mines 



Department of Mines, New South 

 Wales 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game, Massachusetts 



Dr. E.J. Nolan 



New Zealand Geological Survey.... 



Library of Congress 



Board of Agriculture and Fores- 

 try, Hawaii 



South African Government 



Department of IMarine and Fish- 

 eries, Canada 



Arthur Dransfield 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Gardens. 



New Zealand Government 



Iowa Geological Survey 



Witmer Stone 



Kommission zur Wissenschaft- 

 liche Untersuchungen der 

 Deutschen See in Kiel 



Francis R. Abbot 



Department of Mines, Nova 

 Scotia 



Forestry Commissioner of Minne- 

 sota 



Geological Survey of Natal and 

 Zululand 



Board of Scientific Advice for 

 India 



Secretaria de Agricultura, Cuba... 



Geological Survey of Alabama 



Louisiana Geological Survey 



East Indian Government 



Ministerio de Agricultura, Buenos 

 Aires 



P. Caledon Cameron 



Department of Geology and 

 Natural Resources, Indiana 



Dr. Henry Skinner 



They were distributed to the several departments of the Library as 

 follows: 



Journals 5,132 



Agriculture 455 



Geology 330 



Botany 230 



Geography 138 



General Natural History 121 



Voyages and Travels 78 



Entomologv 77 




1007.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



Bibliography !■'> 



Chemistry M 



Physical Science H 



Mineralogy 9 



Matheniatics 6 



Herpetology 5 



Unclassified 25 



Oriiitholog}' 55 



Anatomy and Physiology 38 



Mainmalogj^ 37 



Ih'liuinthology 33 



(."oiu'hology 32 



Iclithyology 24 



-Medicine 23 



Aiitliropology 21 



Two thousantl and twenty volumes have been bound during the 

 year, making a notable improvement, especially in the department of 

 journals and periodicals. The shelf list in this department has been 

 completed and will be of use, not only in taking stock, but in any 

 rearrangement of the volumes which may be hereafter necessary. 

 The general card catalogue has of course been kept up to date. In 

 connection with the preparation of work for the binders constant 

 ■effort is made to secure supplies of deficiencies, in many cases with 

 gratifying success. 



The necessity for more room becomes every day more urgent. The 

 growth of certain departments has heretofore been provided for by 

 encroachment on the study rooms. This has been so manifestly to the 

 inconvenience of those occupying the rooms that some of these books 

 have been removed to shelving placed above the cases. These shelves 

 have to be reached by ladders, and the arrangement is only tolerable as 

 a temporary relief from crowding. It is believed that ample pro- 

 vision for at least storing accessions will be provided in the proposed 

 new building, a large part of which will be designed for the erection of 

 tiers of stacks. 



The proofs of the Union List of periodicals in the libraries of Phila- 

 delphia have been read, and the work will be issued early in March 

 under the auspices of the Free Library. It will be of the first import- 

 ance in cooperative work. 



It is gratifying to know that the present arrangement of the Library 

 was warmly commended by the members of the International Congress 

 of Zoologists, who were entertained here last September. 



The Librarian read a paper on the use of books on Natural History 

 at the Conference of the American Library Association, held at Ashe- 

 ville in May. The paper has been published in the first volume of the 

 Bulletin of the Association. 



Acknowledgment is again gladly made of indebtedness to the 

 Assistant Librarian, William J. Fox, for efficient service both in the 

 Library and the Publication Office. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC;^ 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The collections in the care of the Curators remain in an excellent 

 condition and progress has been made in their study and classification. 



In June an appropriation of $150,000 was made to the Academy by 

 the State of Pennsylvania, for the erection of a new fireproof liljrary 

 and Auditorium. Plans for this new building, to be erected south of 

 the present Museum, and for the remodeling of the old Library building 

 for Museum purposes, have been adopted and work will begin early in 

 the coming year. 



The rearrangement of the collections in the old Museum building, 

 which was closed to the public while the new roof was being constructed, 

 has been practically completed, but until the new exliibition cases now 

 under construction are installed, it is thought best to keep the building 

 closed. 



In rearranging the collections, the fossil Vertebrates and the Lea- 

 collection of Eocene fossils occupy the main floor. The first gallery, 

 where birds were formerly displayed, now contains the collections of 

 fossil Invertebrates arranged in geological sequence. The exhibit of 

 recent mollusks is to remain on the second gallery. 



A temporary partition shuts off the east end of the main floor, forming 

 a room for the arrangement of the rapidly increasing study collection 

 of mollusks. 



One hundred white pine cabinets were purchased during the year 

 for the accommodation of this collection. In addition 720 cubic feet of 

 exhibition cases, uniform with those previously purchased, have been 

 ordered, and a number of moth-proof metal cases for the entomological 

 and ornithological study collections. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has made additional explorations among the 

 Indian mounds of the Southern States, and added valuable specimens 

 to his collection. 



Dr. Skinner, at the instance of the Canadian Government, accom- 

 panied Dr. Fletcher on a trip through Saskatchewan during the 

 summer, and made extensive entomological collections for the Academy. 

 Mr. Rehn, through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, was enabled 

 to accompany him on a trip through New Mexico, Arizona and Cali- 

 fornia, collecting Orthoptera and reptiles. All of the latter and half 

 of the Orthoptera became the property of the Academy. 



Numerous local trips to various parts of Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey by other members of the Museum staff have added largely to 

 the herbarium and the collections of fishes reptiles and mollusks. 




1007.] NATURAL SCIKN'CKS OF rillLADELPIIIA. 571 



Among the more important accessions to the ^Museum during the 

 year may be mentioned a series of earthenware vessels from Colombia; 

 a series from tlie WoUaston collection of MoUusca from ^ladeira, the 

 Canaries, Cape Verdes and St. Helena; a collection of Brazilian birds 

 presented by j\Irs. Thomas Giunmey; a number of valuable mammals 

 presented by the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, and a series of 

 Cirripedes from the United States National Museum. 



In addition to the services rendered by the Museum staff, the 

 Curators are indebted to Mr. S. S. Van Pelt for the care and enlarge- 

 ment of the local herbarium, and to Dr. P. P. Calvert, IMessrs. E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr., and II. W. Wenzel for aid in the entomological department. 



Details of the work in several departments are appended. In 

 addition Dr. J. P. Moore has continued the study and arrangement of 

 the helminthological collections, and Mr. H. W. Fowler of the fishes, 

 while Miss H. N. Wardle has devoted considerable time to the care of 

 the archaeological department. 



The collections have been consulted by many visiting specialists and 

 specimens have been loaned to Dr. F. W. True, H. W. Henshaw, E. W. 

 Nelson, H. C. Oberholser, Dr. W. H. Dall, Dr. James P. Smith, Miss 

 Mary J. Rathbun, Robert T. Young, Dr. G. A. Boulengcr, Dr. Burnett 

 Smith, W. H. Osgood, M. W. Lyon, Dr. C. H. Gilbert, and Dr. C. H. 

 Eigenmann. 



Samuel G. Dixox, 



Executive Curator. 



Report of the Special Curator of the Department of Mollusca. 



During the year the collection of mollusks which was stored in 1906 

 has been returned to the second gallery and in part rearranged. All of 

 the fresh-water shells have been placed in dust-proof cases on the 

 main floor of the Museum, where space has been partitioned off for 

 the temporary accommodation of such part of the collection as is not 

 exhibited. 



Large accessions have been made to the collections. Among the 

 more extensive series are 250 trays of Florida shells collected by C. B. 

 Moore; 100 lots from Victoria, Australia, from Mrs. A. F. Keynon; a 

 series of Mexican shells from A. A. Hinkley, and a series of 1,320 trays 

 from the Quadras collection of Philippine land shells. A series from 

 the Lowe-WoUaston collection from the Atlantic Islands, ^ladeira, 

 Canaries, St. Helena, etc., was purchased. 



The Special Curator has been occupied chiefl)'' with the preparation 

 of the Manual of Conchology, the volume for the year dealing with 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



the family Olcacinidce. Studies have also been made of the snails 

 collected in Arizona in 1906, an account of which will shortly be ready 

 for publication. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has given careful and efficient assistance in the 

 work of the department. 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Special Curator. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 The Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Nine stated and several informal meetings have been held during the 

 year with the usual attendance. 



The following communications were made: 



On Filaria sanguinis Jiominis, b}'' Dr. T. S. Stewart. 



On Amphigyra alabaminensis , and on an apparatus for showing 

 polarized light, by Mr. F. J. Keeley. 



On motion of diatoms, by Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer. 



A paper "On Consciousness of Micro-Organisms," by Mr. John G. 

 Rothermel, was presented to a large audience by request in the Library 

 Hall. 



Dr. Sylvester J. Deehan, by invitation, read a paper "On the House 

 Fly and Its Relation to Public Health." 



Shorter communications on various subjects were made by Messrs. 

 J. A. Shulze, William B. Davis, Silas L. Schumo, Hugo Bilgram, Dr. 

 J. C. Morris and C. S. Boyer. 



The semi-centennial anniversary of the founding of the Section will 

 occur on March 30, 1908. Of the twenty-seven original members but 

 few are now living; it is hoped, however, that the occasion may be the 

 means of some commemoration of the work of the Section. 



The following officers were elected for the year 1908: 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, 



Correspo nd ing Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator, . 



J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 

 T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 

 Silas L. Schumo. 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 

 F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



MlNEUAL(3C;iCAL AND CiKOLOfllCAL SECTION. 



The Section lias this season continued its meetings and excursions 

 with renewed vigor and success. 



There have been nine meetings, witii an average attendance of ten. 

 Communications were made by .Mr. lA'iiwood F. Garrison on gold in 

 pegmatite and related rocks, and on metallic sulphides in volcanic tuffs; 

 by .Mr. K. T. Wherry on luminescent minerals, and on his summer 

 observations in northern New Jersey; by .Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer on 

 the geography and geology of the region around Richmond, Va. ; by 

 B. S. Lyman on a trip to the Philippines, and on a new rock-section 

 grinding machine; by Dr. Florence Bascom on some Mexican volca- 

 noes; by Dr. William J. Sinclair on the geology of the Yosemitc ^'alley. 

 There were a number of shorter communications, besides active discus- 

 sions. 



There were nine field excursions, with an average attendance of 

 over twenty-eight. The parties examined: (1) The structure of 

 Plymouth Valley, between Camp Hill and Chestnut Hill, Montgomery 

 County; (2) The crystalline rocks and their minerals near i\Iedia, 

 Delaware County; (3) The structure of Plymouth A'alley, between 

 Fort Washington and Glenside, Montgomery County; (4) The crys- 

 talline rocks and their minerals between Swarthmore and Lansdowne, 

 Delaware County; (5) The Cambrian and Precambrian roclcs between 

 Edge Hill and Paper Mills, Montgomery County; (6) The New Red 

 rocks in the Perkiomen Valley, Montgomery County; (7) The crystal- 

 line rocks between Chester and Morgan Station, Delaw^are county; (8) 

 The New Red and Cambrian conglomerates betw^een Yardley and Falls- 

 ington, Bucks County; (9) The crystalline rocks and their minerals 

 between Bethayres and Bustleton, Montgomery and Philadelphia 

 Counties. The excursions are occasionally enlivened by interesting 

 and instructive discussions of the phenomena observed. 



The membership of the Section has increased by two associates, at 

 least one of whom will doubtless next month become a member. 

 Another associate has already this year become a member. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the year 

 1908: 



Director, ..... Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director, George ^'aux, Jr. 



Recorder and Secretary, Edgar T. Wherry. 



Treasurer, Miss Emma Walter. 



Conservator, Frank J. Keeley. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE acade:\iy OF [Dec, 



The Entomological Section. 



The regular monthly meetings have been held, except during the 

 months of July and August. Valuable communications by the 

 members have been permanently recorded in the Proceedings of the 

 Section and published in the Entomological Neivs. The average 

 attendance was twelve persons, not including visitors. Eight tin cases 

 containing two hundred Schmitt boxes have been purchased to accom- 

 modate the growth of the collection and any new arrangement found 

 necessary. Over 11,000 specimens have been added to the cabinet 

 during the year. The most noteworthy additions have been 2,083 

 insects of all orders from Paramaribo, Surinam; 3,424 Hymenoptera, 

 presented by Mr. Henry L. Viereck; 700 Orthoptera from Florida and 

 2,500 from the Southwestern United States, captured by Mr. J. A. G. 

 Rehn and ]\Ir. Morgan Hebard ; two specimens of the very rare butter- 

 fly, Argynnis astarte, from Mt. Athabasca, were presented by Mrs. 

 Charles Schaffer. 



The Conservator of the Section spent five weeks collecting for the 

 Academy in the Canadian provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and 

 Alberta, and brought home a large amount of material. Quite a 

 number of the species collected were new to our cabinets, and it is 

 not unlikely that new species will be found when time permits the 

 proper study of this collection. A large part of the additions came 

 unmounted, and a considerable portion of the Conservator's time was 

 occupied in preparing it for the cabinet. The usual and necessary 

 work for the care and preservation of the collections has been done, 

 and new and better methods of technic have made this work very much 

 more satisfactory. The Entomological News, the journal published 

 under the direction of the Section, has been continued and Volume 

 XVIII completed with 458 pages and 17 plates. Two hundred and 

 ninety-eight pages and 4 plates of the Transactions of the American 

 Entomological Society have been published. The Conservator wishes 

 to acknowledge valuable assistance in the care and arrangement of 

 special collections from Dr. Philip P. Calvert, Mr. J. A. G. Rehn and 

 Mr. E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator, 



Secretary, 



Philip Laurent. 

 H. W. Wenzel. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D. 

 J. H. Ridings. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHI LADKLI'III A. 575 



Recorder, Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Publication Committee, E. T. Cresson, 



J. II. Ridings. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Henry Skinner, 

 Conservator. 



The Botanical Section. 



During the past year the work of placing the sheets in species 

 covers has been completed for about three-fourths of the herbarium ; 

 ]->ressure of other work and lack of assistance have delayed pro,2Tess 

 for the time being; it is hoped, however, that the arrangement may be 

 completed during the coming year. 



Early in the year six new metal cases were received and have been 

 placed in the north gallery room for the accommodation of the ferns 

 and fern allies with the mosses and lichens, the change of arrangement 

 being required by the rapid growth of the local herbarium. 



Additions to the collections amount to about 5,500 sheets. Of these, 

 exchanges have been received from the New York Botanical Gardens 

 of 174, principally from the Bahamas, and the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania. 147 from Bermuda. Gifts have been received from the St. Louis 

 Botanical Gardens, 565 numbers of Lindheimer's Texan plants, and 

 about 750 from the following individuals: Edwin B. Bartram, Stew- 

 ardson Brown, Joseph Crawford, ]\Irs. Thomas P. Hill, Bayard Long, 

 C. F. Saunders, Benjamin H. Smith, Edward G. Vanatta, Samuel S. 

 Van Pelt and Charles S. Williamson. 



The Academy's expedition to Arizona and New I\Iexico under Dr. 

 Pilsbry added 238 sheets, and the following have been added by 

 purchase : By the Academy, a small collection of Surinam plants, and 

 by the Botanical Section, 425 sheets of the Pere Duss herbarium from 

 Martinique and Guadeloupe; from A. A. Pleller, 470 sheets of Cali- 

 fornia plants, and from C. G. Pringle, 300 Mexican plants. 



An increasing interest has been manifested during the year in the 

 meetings of the Philadelphia Botanical Club, its members having 

 added 2,500 sheets to the local herbarium. Acknowledgment is here 

 made of the efficient work rendered by its Curator, Mr. Samuel S. 

 Van Pelt. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 5, the following 

 were elected as officers for the ensuing year : 



Director, ..... Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director, .... Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder, ..... Charles S. Williamson. 

 Treasurei' and Conservator, . . Stew ardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



The Ornithological Section. 



During the past year the remainder of the mounted collection of 

 birds, comprising the ostriches and their allies and the song birds, have 

 been arranged on the new Ornithological floor in cases provided for 

 them, and the work of relabelling the Picariae, Passeres, etc., has been 

 begun. 



The greater part of the Conservator's time, apart from general 

 museum work, has been devoted to a thorough revision of the study 

 series of bird skins. Before installing the extensive Tristram collection 

 it was found necessary to reidentify the old material and bring the 

 nomenclature up to date. At the same time all species represented 

 in the collection have been checked up in Sharpe's Hand List of Birds, 

 so that it is possible to ascertain at a glance the Academy's desiderata. 

 This work has been completed from the Parrots to the Song Birds, 

 this portion of the collection occupying eighty of the standard metal 

 cases. 



Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has spent about six months' time in relabelling 

 the Tristram collection, amplifying the tags from the manuscript 

 catalogue, and has completed about one half of this material. He 

 has also relaxed many of the old unmounted specimens and greatly 

 improved their appearance. 



Numerous accessions have been received during the year, among 

 which may be mentioned a collection of Brazilian birds from Mrs. 

 Thomas Gummey, a raven's nest and other specimens for the Delaware 

 Valley Club collection. 



A special mahogany and plate glass case was finished early in the 

 year for the display of the Great Auk and the Labrador Ducks, and 

 twelve additional metal cases have been purchased for the study- 

 collection. 




1907.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



577 



The Delaware "\'alley Ornithological Clul) and Pennsylvania Audubon 

 Society have held tlieir meetings at the Academy during the year, and 

 many visiting ornithologists have made use of the collections. 



WiTMER Stone, 



Conservator. 



^ The annual election of OfTicers, Councillors and IMembers of the 

 Committee on Accounts to serve during 1908 was held with the follow- 

 ing result : 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D. 

 E. G. Conklin, Ph.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown, Sc.D, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 

 William S. Vaux, Jr. 



Councillors to serve three years, Thomas H. Fenton, M.D.,. 



John Cadw'alader, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Committee on Accounts, . . Charles Morris, 



Samuel N, Rhoads, 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Howard Crawley, Ph.D. 



COUNCIL FOR 1908. 



Ex-officio. — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., 

 Arthur E. Brown, Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, ]\I.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William S. Vaux, Jr. 



To serve Three Years. — Thomas H. Fenton, I\I.D., John Cadwalader,, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D. 



To serve Two Years. — Dr. C. Newlin Peirce, Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.^ 

 Thomas Biddle, ^LD., and Frederick Prime. 

 38 




578 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



To serve One Year. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Charles Morris, 

 Benjamin Sharp, M.D., and Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Curator of Mollusca, 

 Assistant Librarian, 

 Assistants to Curators, 



HenryA. Pilsbry,Sc.D. 

 William J. Fox. 

 Witmer Stone, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 J. A. G. Rehn, 

 H. Newell Wardle. 



Taxidermist, . 

 Jessup Fund Students, 



David ]\IcCadden. 

 H. Newell Wardle, 

 James A. G. Rehn. 



Janitors 



Charles Clappier, 

 Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aeblev. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1907. 



MEMBERS. 



January 15. — Edwin J. Simpson, Mary W. James. 



March 19.— C. C. Bedoes. 



April 16.— Richard H. Harte, M.D. 



October 15.— Dr. F. Creighton Wellman, Edgar T. Wherry. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



April 29.— F. Chalmers Mitchell, F.R.S., of London. 

 November 19. — Otto zur Strassen of Leipzig, J. W van Wijhe of 

 Groningen, R. Bowdler Sharpe of London. 




1907.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



ADDITIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Mammals. 



Christoi'Iier Gallegher. Skull of Balcenoplera, Cape May, N. J. 



S. II. Hamilton. Mink, Palorius visori, and Georgia Bat, Pipistrellus, ^^'arren 

 County, N. J. 



Morgan Hebard. Three Bats, Arizona and New Mexico. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Jumping Mouse, Zapus hudsonius, West Creek, Ocean County, 

 N.J. 



David McCadden. Six embryos of the Gray Fox, Urocyon cinereo-argenteus. 



Joseph E. Sapp. Franklin's Spermophile, Cilellus jranldinii, Tuckerton, N. J. 



Lewis Sheppard. Skull of Opossum. 



R. W. Shufeldt. Skeleton of Vulpes macrotis. 



H. L. Viereck. Jumping Mouse, Zapus hudsonius, Devon, Pa. 



George Wilkinson. Skull and teeth of horse. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Prepared for mounting : White-handed 

 Gibbon, Hylobates lar (mth skull) ; European Wild-cat, Felis catus (with skull) ; 

 South American Tapir, Tapirus terrestris (with skull) ; Beisa Antelope, Oryx beisa. 



Prepared as skins with shulls: Gray's Paradoxure, Paradoxurus grayi; Dorcas 

 Gazelle, Gazella dorcas; Texan Deer-mouse, Peromyscus sp., Seymour, Tex. 



Prepared as skins with skeletons : lirazilian Ocelot, Felis pardalis chihigouazou; 

 Dorcas Goat, Capra dorcas. 



Prepared as skin without skull: Crab-eating Raccoon, Procyon cancrivorus. 



Prepared as skeleton: Red River-hog, Pomatochoerus porcus. 



Prepared as an alcoholic specimen: Pj^gmy Marmoset, Ilapale pygmwa. 



Birds. 



Hermaxx Behr (for Delaware ^■alley Ornithological Club Collection). Nest 

 of Raven, Corvus corax principalis, Garrett County, Md. 



J. G. DiLLiv. Horned Owl, Bubo virginianus, Pennsylvania. 



Thomas Eakins. Bald Eagle (Halicetus leucocephalus) for skeleton. New Jersey. 



Mrs. Thomas Gummey. Collection of mounted birds, Brazil. 



11. W. Hand. Gannett, Sula bassana, Cape May, N. J. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Bald Eagle, IIalia;tus leucocephalus. West Creek, Ocean 

 County, N. J. 



Mary Vaux. Ruffed Grouse, Bonasa umbellus, Brj-n Mawr, Pa. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. AVhite-crested Guan, egg of Guira, 

 White Gerfalcon. 



Purchased. Seven Wild Pigeons, Eclopistes migraioria, seven Sandhill Cranes, 

 Grus mexicana, five exotic birds. 



Reptiles and AMPiiiniANS. 



H. W. Fowler. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Holmesburg, Phila- 

 delphia. 




5S0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



H. W. Fowler, B. W. Griffith and T. D. Keim. Collection of reptiles and 

 amphibians, Tullytown, Bucks County, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and A. H. Grosh, Collection of amphibians, Bacon Hill, Md. 



H. W. Hand. Scaphiopus holbrooki, Cape May, N. J. 



Morgan Hebard. Fifty-four reptiles and amphibians, collected in Arizona and 

 New Mexico by Hebard and Rehn. 



J. W. HoLMAN. Two Pine Snakes, Piluophys melanoleucus, West Creek, Ocean 

 County, N. J.; Red Salamander, Spelerpes ruber, West Creek, Ocean County, N. J. 



Miss N. HoLMAN. Sceloporus undulatus, West Creek, Ocean County, N. J. 



T. D. Keim and W. Stone. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Garrett 

 County, Md. 



David McCadden. Rana pipiens, Ocean City, N. J. 



Clarence B. Moore (collected by H. A. Pilsbry). Two Anolis, Florida Keys. 



T. Chalkly Palmer. Typhlops lurnhricalis, West Indies. 



Joseph Parker. King Snake, Ophibolus getulus, West Creek, Ocean County, 

 N.J. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Hog-nosed Snake, Heterodon platyrhinus, and Green Snake, 

 Ophiodryas ceslivus, West Creek, Ocean County, N. J. 



G. S. Robinson, M. D. Spelerpes ruber, Holmesburg, Philadelphia. 



E. G. Vanatta. Several amphibians, Chestertown, Md. 



George B. Wood. Several reptiles. West Palm Beach, Fla. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Skeleton of giant tortoise, Galapagos ; 

 Boa imperator. 



Fishes. 



W. J. Eptino. Two skins of Salmo fontinalis. 



Erie Fish Co. Collection of fishes from Lake Erie. 



W. J. Fox. Phycis regius and Avimodytes, Sea Isle City, N. J.; skull of cod- 

 fish, Sea Isle City, N. J. 

 ; H. W. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Chester and Monocacy Creeks, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler, C. J. Hunt and T. D. Keim. Collection of fishes, Rancocas 

 Creek, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler and H. W. Hand. Collection of fishes. Cape May, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler and R. F. Miller. Collection of fishes from Port Richmond, 

 Philadelphia. 



H. W. Fowler and A. H. Grosh. Collection of fishes. Bacon Hill, Cecil 

 County, Md. 



H. W. Fowler and T. D. Keim. Collections of fishes from Pensauken and 

 Neshaminy Creeks, Pa. 



H. AV. Fowler and F. W. Pennell. Collection of fishes, Wawa, Pa. 



H. W. Fowler and Dr. C. C. Abbott. Collection of fislies, Trenton, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler, B. W. Griffith and T. D. Keim. Collection of fishes, Tully- 

 town, Bucks County, Pa. 



H. W. Hand. Specimen of Lophius, Cape May, N. J. 



P. H. Hartman. Collection of fishes, Erie, Pa. 



T. D. Keim. Several fishes, Garrett County, Md. 



Agnes F. Kenyon. Collection of dried fishes, Melbourne, Australia. 



David McCadden. Sand Eel, Rissola marginata and Ammodytes, Ocean City, 

 N.J. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIE.N'CES OF I'lIILADKLI'IIIA. 581 



Clarence B. Mooue (collected by 11. A. Pilsbrj')- Sea Catfish, Florida Keys. 

 U. S. Fish Commission. Lumpinus laiKjiroslris and Iceliyius burcharni, cotypes. 



E. G. Vanatta. Collection of fishes, Chestertown, Md. 



Geokge B. Wood. Collections of fishes, West Palm Beach, Florida, and 

 Cristiue, Me. 



Insects. 



F. Austin. Mole-cricket, New Jersey. 



W. Beutenmuller. Sixteen specimens. United States. 



C. R. BiEDERMAN. Three Ileteroccra, Arizona. 



H. Bird. Three Heterocera, United States. 



C. R. BoERNER. Fourteen Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



P. BioLLEY. Thirty-seven Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



C. S. Braddock. Eighteen Rliopalocera, Siam. 



W. E. Britton. Five Diptera, United States. 



Stewardson Brown. Two hundred and ninety-three specimens, British 

 America. 



L. Bruner. Jodacris costaricensis, Costa Rica. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Xyela hitei pida (type), New Mexico; Holocaspis ari- 

 zonica (t3'pe), Arizona. 



N. Criddle. Forty-four specimens, Manitoba. 



E. Daecke. Two Odonata, New Jersey. 

 Mrs. J. S. Durham. Six Orthoptera, Cuba. 



G. M. Greene. Ten Coleoptera; eighty-eight Orthoptera; scventj^-six 

 Hymenoptera, United States. 



C. T. Greene. Fourteen Diptera, Pennsj'lvania. 



F. Haimbach. Six Heterocera, New Jersey. 



M. Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Seven hundred Orthoptera, Florida. 



C. W. Johnson. Forty-three Diptera, United States. 



F. M. Jones. Six specimens insect architecture; seven Heterocera, South 

 Carolina. 



H. Ivaeber. Sixteen Orthoptera; one Hemiptera, Arizona. 



Bayard Long. Various small lots of Orthoptera, United States. 



K. Mayo. Two thousand four hundred and twenty-one specimens, Surinam 

 (purchased) . 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Two Argynnis astarte, British America. 



Henry Skinner. Seven Lepidoptera, New Mexico; sixty-five Odonata, 

 Saskatchewan; twenty-four Coleoptera, Canada; seventy-four Rhopalocera, 

 Canada; one Syntomedia befana (type), Arizona; two Chrysophanus arelhusa 

 (cotypes). 



A. J. Snyder. Fifty-six specimens, Idaho (purchased). 



^^'. Stoke. Two Heterocera, Pennsylvania; fifty Diptera; sixty Hemiptera; 

 thirty Coleoptera, Maryland. 



E. .S. Tucker. Fifteen Diptera, Colorado. 



II. L. ViERECK. Twenty specimens, United States; six bees, Europe; three 

 thousand four hundred and twenty-four Hymenoptera; Perdita novanglice (type). 



University Museum, Oxford, England. Tliirty-five Orthoptera, Borneo 

 (exchange). 



University of Kansas Seventy-five Ortlioptora, Arizona and Texas. 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DcC. 



H. W. Wenzel. Two Coleoptera, Arizona; two Aphodius, Georgia; fourteen 

 Coleoptera, United States. 



W. G. Wright. One hundred and forty-three Coleoptera, CaUfornia. 

 P. 11. Young. One mole-cricket, New Jersey. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob Aebly. Saxlcava arctica, taken from a sponge. 



John A. Allen. Twenty-four trays of shells from Ohio and Maine. 



Rev. E. H. Ashmun. Fluminicola minulissima Pils., Price Valley, Idaho. 



Joshua Baily, Jr. Six sets of American land shells. 



Carl F. Baker. Eighty-five species of mollusca from Cuba and Nicaragua. 



F. H. Baker. Thirty species of marine shells from Australia and New Zealand. 



Florence Balentine. Ancylus borealis Morse, from Orono, Maine. 



Owen Bryant. Melampus coffea, Mangrove Bay, Andros, Bahamas. 



P. P. Calvert. Seven species of ]\Iexican land and freshwater shells. 



Charles F. Cavenaugh. Twenty-two species of Phihppine Islands marine 

 shells. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Nineteen species of marine mollusca from ]\Iaine and 

 Italy. 



George H. Clapp. Twelve species of American land shells. 



T. D. A. CocKERELL. Two land shells from Colorado. 



C. H. Conner. Six species of freshwater and marine shells from Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersej'. 



Mrs. a. V. B. Crumb. Forty-eight species of shells from Biu-ma. 



Dr. W1LLLA.M H. Dall. Buccinum percrassum Dall from Bering Island. 



L. E. Daniels. Five freshwater shells from Indiana. 



H. Grace Eaton. Four species of land shells from New Mexico and California. 



J. H. Ferriss and Dr. H. A. Pilsbrv. One hundred and forty-seven trays of 

 land shells from Western States. 



H. W. Fowler, T. D. Keim and Dr. C. C. Abbott. Twelve trays of Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey land shells. 



William J. Fox. Littorina irrorata and Nassa trivittata from Sea Isle City, N. J. 



M. Grabham. Eighty-seven trays of land shells from Madeira. 



Harold Heath. Ommasirephes californica from Monterey, California. 



M. Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn. Four species of fresh w'ater shells from California. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr. Twenty-four trays of shells from the Southern States. 



J. B. Henderson, Jr., and Dr. H. C. Chapman. Pohjgyra albolabris Say Bald 

 Porcupine Island, Frenchman's Bay, IMaine. 



Junius Henderson. Nine species of Colorado land shells. 



Dr. H. M. Hiller. Eight species of Cuban marine shells. 



A. A. HiNKLEY. Seventj^-two trays of Mexican shells. 



Y. HiRASE. Three species of Japanese marine mollusca. 



Mrs. Anna G. Hubbell. Fourteen marine shells. 



Henry Jackson, Jr. Fulgur canaliculata Say. 



Howard Jones. Two species of bivalves from Atlantic City, N. J. 



Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon (in exchange). One hundred and four species of 

 marine shells from Australia. 



Philip Laurent. Limax jn.aximiis 1j., ]\It. Airy, Pliiladclpliia, Pa. 




1')'17.] XATl.'UAl. SCIHNCKS OF I'll 1 1,A DKM'II I A. 583 



Havaui) I.()N"(;. I'"iv(> nuiriiic shells lidni Hailt\ 's Isbitid, .M:iiin'. 



N. \\ . Lkkmond. Two hwid shells Iroin .Maine. 



O. S, Lewis. Poh/gi/ra I. jiixtidcns VWs., Dorchester Mt., .Morton, \'a. 



Ml.^^s Mayo. Four .species of land shells from Dutch (luiarui. 



Clauen'ce li. Moore. Two hundred and sixly-ono trays of sliells from I'lorida. 



F. W. PK.VNEF.t,. Agriolimax agrestis L., from Wawa, Delaware County, Pa. 



H. A. PiLsuKY. Thirty-three species of shells. 



J. A. G. Rehnt. Quadrula (rapezoides Lea, Pearl River, Jackson, .Miss. 



S. X. Rhoads. Eleven species of shells from England and Panay Island. 



Sloman Rous. Forty species of marine mollusca from .South .\frica. 



Silas L. Schu.mo. Six species of marine shells from Hammerfest, Norwav. 



Burnett Smith. Six freshwater shells from Skaneateles, N. Y. 



H. H. Smith (purchased). Three hundred and sixteen tra^^s of freshwater 

 .shells from Georgia and .Alabama. 



SowERBY and Fulton (purchased). Twenty-two East Indian shells. 



F. Stearns. One hundred and eleven marine shells from Honolulu, Hawaiian. 

 Islands. 



Witmer Stone. Twenty-two land shells from JLiryland and Pennsylvania. 



L. H. Streng. Eight marine shells from Panama. 



D. Thaanum. Thirty-five land shells from the Hawaiian Islands. 



T. ^'AN Hyning. Polygyra monodon Rack., near Des i\loines, Iowa. 



S. S. V.AN Pelt. Three marine shells from Cape May County, N. J. 



J. C. Verco. Three sets of Giycimeris sordidus Tate, South Australia. 



Bryant Walker. Five land and freshwater shells from the United States. 



Ward's Natural Science Establishment. Conus sp. 



W. F. Weuh. Eight land shells from the East Indies. 



W. H. Webster. Five New Zealand marine shells. 



J. WiLLCox. Two land shells from Italy. 



George H. Wood. One Octopus from West Palm Beach, Fla. 



James Zeteck. Opeas rnauriiianum Pfi. from a greenliouse in Garfield Park, 

 Chicago, 111. 



Crustacea. 



C. II. Conner. One jar of crabs from ofT Angelsea, X. J. 



H. W. Fowler, T. D. Keim, G. W. Griffith, O. H. Brown and H. W. A\"ooi>. 

 Eight jars of Crustacea from the Middle Atlantic States. 



S. H. Hamilton. Two sets of Crustacea from Santiago Province, Cuba. 

 A. A. HiNKLEY. Two Crustacea from Tampico, Mexico. 

 Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon. Eight crabs from Victoria, Australia. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Ten jars of Crustacea from tlie Florida Keys. 

 F. W. Pennell. Can\barus bnrtoni from Wawa, Delaware County, Pa. 

 United St.*.tes N.^tional Museum. Sixty-eight jars of barnacles. 

 George B. Wood. Two crabs from West Palm Beach, Fla. 



Worms. 



II. W. Fowler. Two specimens Mermes. 



^Ir. Harvey. Taenia and Oxyurus from porcupine. 



Mrs. .\gnes F. Kenyon. Fourteen bottles of Polychrela. 




58i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [ [DeC, 



J. P. Moore. Forty-eight bottles of Fohjchceta, one Nectonema agile, ninety- 

 five of SyllldcE. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. One earthworm. 



Paymaster Spear. Specimens of Pololo worms. 



H. L. ViERECK. Three bottles of Oligochceta, one Nematode. 



Other Invertebrates. 



Jacob Aebly. A set of lulus from Philadelphia, Pa. 



F. H. Baker. Waldheimia flavescens from Western Port, Victoria, Australia. 



H. W. Fowler, T. D. Keim and H. W. Hand. Seven jars of invertebrates 

 from Delaware and New Jersey. 



George Hartman. One jar of Caudina from Palermo, Cape May County, 

 N.J. 



Mrs. Agnes F. Kenyon. Seven marine invertebrates from Victoria, Australia. 



Clarence B. Moore. Three jars of invertebrates from the Florida Keys. 



H. A. PiLSBRY. Three jars of invertebrates from the Strait of Magellan. 



WiTMER Stone. lulus from Jennings, Md. 



George B. Wood. Starfish and anemone from Castine, Maine. 



Fossil Invertebrates. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Seven fossils from New Mexico. 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon. Fossil Brachiopoda from Dundaffboro, Pa. 

 Dr. William Drayton, Jr. Two fossils from the Cascade Range, British 

 Columbia. 



D. K. Greger (in exchange). Twenty-four fossils from Missouri. 

 Burnett Smith. Twenty-two Devonian fossils from Skaneateles, N. Y. 

 Mrs. Sarah Clay Macfarlane. Several specimens of fossils. 

 Percy C. Madeira. Fossil plant in coal slate, Pottsville, Pa. 



Plants. 



Edwin B. Bartram. Collection of Vermont plants. 



Stewardson Brown, Bayard Long and Samuel S. Van Pelt. Collection of 

 plants from Newton and other New Jersey localities and from the Delaware 

 Peninsula in Delaware and Virginia. 



George M. Green. Faciated specimen of Rudbeckia hirta. 

 • Mrs. H. Richards Harris. Colluna vulgaris, Erica tetrolix and Erica cinerea 

 from Nantucket. 



Mrs. Thomas R. Hill. Double spathed specimen of Ariscema triphyllum. 



Miss K. Mayo. Collection of Surinam plants. Purchased. 



New York Botanical Gardens. Collection of West Indian plants. 

 Exchange. 



Philadelphia Botanical Club. Through various members, 2,500 local 

 plants. 



W. A. Poyser. Poly podium falcatum and Polypodium Scouleri. 



C. F. Saunders. Collection of plants from Mojave Desert. 



Mrs. Charles Schaeffer. Collection of plants from Saskatchewan region of 

 Alberta. 




1907.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 585 



^ Un'iversity of Pennstlvania. Collection of Bermuda plants. Excliange. 



Westtown Hoarding School. Collection of plants from Cherokee, Kan. 

 Exchange. 



Ch.vules S. Williamson, ('olloction of plants from Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey. 



Mk.**. Wright. Collection of California sea weeds. 



Botanical Section. Plants purchased: Heller's Califoruia collections for 

 1907; Pringle's Mexican collections for 1905 and 1906. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



J. P. Labow. Copper ore, Frisco, BeaA'^er County, Utah. 



Miss Frances M. Lambert. Small collection of minerals. 



S. H. Hamilton. Several rock specimens, Cuba. 



William S. Vaux Collection. Sixty-four specimens purchased. 



ARCH.fiOLOGY. 



Clarence B. Moore. Numerous specimens for the Clarence B. Moore 

 Collection from Indian mounds of Florida and the Gulf Coast. 



Purchased. Two hundred and forty-three specimens of Colombian 

 earthenware. 




586 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO SPECIES. ETC., DESCRIBED AND REFERRED TO 

 IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1907. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced; synonijms by 

 italic numerals. 



Abama ainericaua 455 



Acanalonia 49G 



clypeata 496 



delicatula 496 



virescens 496 



Acanalonida 495 



Acanaloniid 468 



Acanthops 159 



sinuata '. 159 



Acer rubrum : 454 



Acheta 272 



abbreviata 220 



assimilis S95 



brasiliensis 395 



Achilida 468,475 



Achurium acridodes 69 



Achurum 31 



acridodes 31 



sumrichrasti 31 



Acrnaea 321 



Acontista 153 



bimaculata 153 



Acridida? 30, 69, 76, 165, 284 



Acridinse 166 



Acridium cruentatum 175 



o>lectum 179 



nigro-conspersum 179 



omnicolor 176 



vitticeps 181 



Acrocara 33 



maculipenne 33 



Acrydiinse 165 



Acrydium acuminatum 1 67 



flavolineatum 192 



Acta?a alba 457 



Adana westwoodi 485 



Adimantus 180 



vitticeps 181 



^losoma 111,122 



tencbrarum 88 



yEoIoplus 55 



^.schna cnnstricta 227 



Agenootetlix 35 



austr-alis 35, 72 



Agra?cia 392 



maculata 392 



Alcamenes 1()9, 170 



cristatus 170 



granulatus! 169 



Aleuas 184 



brachypterus 1S4 



gracilis 184 



lineatus 184 



vitticollis 184 



Alphestes 2.52,2.58 



Aluco 366 



Amarsecium pellucidum 199 



Amaura 376 



olivacea 376 



spinata .376 



Amblvcorvplia floridana 301, 302 



o'blongilolia 301,302 



uhleri 302 



Amblyscapheus 167 



glaucipes : 167 



lineatus 167 



Amblytropidia 166 



chapadensis 166 



ierruginosa 166 



occidentalis 286 



robusta 166 



Ammocoetes <Tpytera Jf65 



concolor 466 



Amphiscepa 495 



malina 495 



pumila 495 



Amphitornis 33 



coloradus 34 



ornatus 33 



Amphitrite 88 



Amphoroides polydesmi 224 



Ampullaria 398 



Anaxipha exigua 318 



Anconia Integra 77 



Andropogon argyra?us 458 



Anemone nemornsa 457 



Anisolabis annulipes 281 



maritima 281 




1907. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



587 



Aiiisomorpiui l)Ui)n'stt)i<l(s L'S t 



rerrugiiiea -iS4 



.\iiiso|)tcra 389 



Aniu'lidu 129, 133, 134 



Aiiniceris lVrnifj;iiieus 185, 186 



Aiitliiius antliiiia 267 



bupthalnuis ^6'7 



Apogoniclitliys udspersus 433 



(hirnleyonsis 433 



loiigictuuiu 433 



Apogonida' 431 



Apotcttix rugosus 285 



miuutus 285 



Aptenopedcs aptera 299 



sphenarioides 299, 300 



Aptcrygida 25, 151 



linearis 25, 151 



Aracana aurita 439 



flavigastra 439 



ornata 439 



Arctostaphvlos uva-ur^i 456 



Arenaria caroliiiiaiia 4.55 



Arenicola 525 



Aretlupa 62 



brevicauda 63 



carita 63 



c'onstricta 61, 63, 74 



consiK^tipcs 63 



grarilipos 63 



plialaugiuin 63, 300 



sellata 61,_6.3 



Aricio 548 



.Vrisa?ma triphyllum 457 



Aristida loriosa 458 



Arnilia coccineipes 180 



Arphia 35 



aberrans 36, 72 



crassa 35 



granulata 289 



pseudonietana 36 



xantlioptcra 289 



Asclepias puldira 457 



Ascyniin stans 455 



Asplancliia 525 



Aster gracilis 4.55 



nemoralis 455 



Ateloplus notatus 74 



Atherina prcsljyteroides 425 



Athorinida; 425 



Athleta 229,230 



clavi 230, 235, 236-242 



potrosa 229-242 



p. tnompyi 230, 231 



rarispina 230 



savana 230,236-242 



tuomcyi 229, 230 



Atlanticiis gibbosus 315 



Atracholacris 186 



unirolor 186,187 



A\ilopara 35 



femoratum 35 



Aulocara rul'uiii . 35,72 



Azalea viseosa 455 



Hai'leriina' 161 



Bactromantis 29 



virga 29 



Bacunculus '. £8S,2S'S 



teiuiescens 283 



Balanus 360 



dedivis 351 



orcutti tini 



Barite 446 



Bathyinyzon 462,464 



bairdii 464 



Belocephalus svibapterus 303 



Belonocharis 469 



Beringius 244 



frielei 243,244 



polyrieinaticus 243 



scliantaricus 244 



turtoni 244 



Bertramia 274 



but'onis 274 



Betula nigra 456 



populil'olia 454 



Bifidaria hordeacella 458 



Blatta brasiliensis 153 



hyalina 153 



orientalis 75 



Blattella 26 



adspersicoUis 26 



dilatata 26 



Blattidic 2.5, 75, 152, 282 



Blennius tasmanianus 444 



Blepliariglottis oristata 455 



blephariglottis 456 



paramoena 458 



Blenniidse 442 



Blennius victoriio 442 



Bodianus 252 



guttatus 252 



Boopedon 34 



fuscum 34 



nubilurn 34 



Bornite 445 



Bothriocera 484 



signoreti 485 



tinealis 484,485 



undata 485 



Bracliahiteros trossulus 439 



Braoliiaria digitarioides 458 



Bracliystola 46 



intermedia 46 



Brandiiostoma californiensis 461 



lanceolatum 461 



Branchiostomida> 461 



Brunneria 154 



brasiliensis 154, 155 



subaptera 154, 1.55 



Buccinuni 244, .321 



earinatum 244 



glariale 244 




58S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Buccinum inclytum 244 



lischkeanum 245 



niicldendorffi 245 



iniraudum 245, 246 



in. var. schrenkii 246 



scutulatum 366 



undatum 245 



unicum 244 



verkriizeni 244 



^iridum 245 



Bufo 273, 278, 340 



lentiginosus 273, 278 



Bytliinia 340 



Calamo\'ilf a brevipilis 455 



Callanthias ruber 267 



Callanthiiua? 267 



Callidulus 265 



Callionymidte 442 



Callionj^mus papilio 442 



Calthapalustris 457 



Camptonotus 393 



affinis 393 



australis 393 



carolinensis 393 



scudderi 393 



Capitella 531 



Capnobotes f uliginosu.s 64 



Carex foUiculata 456 



fusca 457 



livida 456 



trisperma 456 



walteriana 455 



Carpinus caroliniana 456 



Castanea dentata 456 



pumila 458 



Castelnauina 426 



Catonia 480, 483, 492 



cinctifrons 480-482 



fusca 480,481 



grisea 480, 481, 482, 483 



impunctata 480, 482 



intricata 480, 481, 484 



nava 480-482 



picta 480,481 



pumila 480, 483, 485 



Catulus analis 419 



Centriscus humerosus 425 



Centrogeniina; 250 



Centrogenys vaigiensis 250 



Centropomus rupestris 150 



Centropristes 150 



Centropristinse 262 



Centropristis philadelphicus 263 



striatus 263 



subligarius 265, ,?^-5 



Centurus carolinensis 458 



Cephalocoema 165 



burmcisteri 166 



costulata 165, 166 



Cephalopholis argus 252 



aurantius indolebilis 252 



Cephalopholis fulvus 252 



f. ouataHbi 252 



miniatus 252 



rogaa 252 



Cepolis 193 



Ceraia 377 



cornutoidcs 377 



tibiahs 377 



Ceratiscus 162 



Cerithiida^ 367,369 



Cerithium 363-369 



adansonii 364, 365 



aluco 365-367 



clava 365 



ebeninum 365, 366 



echinatum 365 



kochii 367 



nodulosum 365, 366, 368 



obeliscus 364 



palustre 365 



vertagus 367 



Ceroys 161 



coronatus 161 



Ceuthophilus hcnshawi 78 



lamellipes 78 



pacificus 78 



paucispinosus 64 



salebrosus 78 



Chsetocliloa magna 458 



Chaetodon lunula 439 



Cha?topterida» llO 



Cha^topterus 35l 



Chalcocite 445 



Chalcopyrite 445 



Chanifpcj-paris tliyoides 454 



Chama?daphne calj^culata 456 



Cheilobrancliida^ 42l 



Cheilobranchus rufus 42l 



Chermes 3-22 



abietis S, 4, 6 



coloradensis l6 



cooleyi 3, 4, 8, 13-16, 20 



coweni 7-9, l7 



montanus 14, 16, 2l 



pinicorticis 20 



sibericus 3, 4 



similis 15, 2l 



Chimara monstrosa 42l 



m. var. australis 42l 



ogilbyi 42 1 



Chimreridfe 4l9 



Cliionaspis pinifolia? l7 



Chlccaltis conspersa 459 



Chlorus 191 



vittatus 192 



Chondropoma 193 



Chordodes cameranonis 272 



dugesi 272 



grifRnii 272 



morgani 271, 272 



occidentalis 272 




iWi 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



580 



L"hurtltnk'b i)Ut.'nli.s 271 



Cliurtliippu.s furtipcniiis 459 



Cliurlopliaga viiiilil'usciuta 290 



CliruiiuuTis 17-i 



iiiik's 174 



stoUi 174 



Chromium 445 



Chrysopa 20 



Chrysoperca 250 



Chrysopsis t'ulcata 456 



Cixiida 468, 484 



Cixiiis 482, 485, 488, 49U, 491 



albicincta 491 



basalis 489, 489, 490, 491 



coltepium 489,490 



cultus 488 



impimctatus 492 



pini 489,490 



stigmatus 488-491 



Clausilia agna 506 



bivincta 512 



diacoptyx 503, 504 



dolichoptyx 506,507 



d. micra 507 



entospira 508,509 



exulans 509 



hedleyi 509 



h. hyperodonta 509 



hirasei 507 



hj-peraptvx 503, 505, 508 



inolyta..." 499 



inversiluna 511 



koniyaonsis 500, 501 



longiplicata 503, 505, 506 



martensi concrescens 499 



mima 500,501 



munus ._ 502-505 



novikma 510, 511, 513 



oxypomatica 503, 505 



sheridani 511 



tokunoshimana 500, 501 



uraniscoptyx 503, 504, 506 



yaej^amensis 508 



Clava 363-369 



herculea 365 



maciUata 365 



rubus 365 



nigata 365 



tessellata 366 



Claviis 366 



Clethra alnifolia 455 



Clinocophalus elegans 288, 289, 459 



pulcher 287,288 



Clitumninse 162 



Clypeotettix schochii 69 



Ccclopterna 167 



acuminata 168 



Colpolopha 170 



Compostlilypisamcricanausnetp.. . 456 



Comptoniapcregrina 455 



Conalc.Ta 47 



Conak'aja liuaekufaiia 48, 73 



migueUtana 47, 48 



neomexicana 47, 48, 50 



ConocophaUna; 389 



Couuct'plialoides 389 



brachypterus 391 



exaltatus 390 



hawaiiensis 389 



ichncumoiic'us 389 



maculosus 390 



maxillosus 390 



pichinchse 389, 390 



pustulatus 390 



rugosicollis 391 



saturatus 390 



Conocepkalus 389, 392 



atlanticus 303 



brackypterus 391 



crepitans 304 



fuscostriatus 64 



hemipterus 389,392 



ichneumoneus 389 



infuscatus 390 



longipes 392 



lyristes 304 



maculosus 390 



melanorliinus 304 



mexicanus 304 



rugosicollis 391 



pichincha? 389 



pustulatus 390 



remotus 389 



robustus 304 



retusus 303 



saltator 393 



saturatus 390 



strictoides 393 



Conozoa 38 



acunimata 38, 39 



behrensi 38, 77 



carinata 38, 73 



mcllcola '"^ 43 



sulcifrons 38, 39 



Copipkora 389 



borellii 389 



Coptopteryx 155 



argentina 155, 156 



claraziana 155 



crenaticoUis 1«'>5 



^;aJ^ 155 



Cordillacris affinis 69 



cinerea 69 



crenulata 69 



occipitalis 69 



pima 69 



Coroma conradii 456 



Coris dorsomacula 436 



vcnusta 439 



Cornus florida 456 



Coss>-pkus bilunulatus 436 



Creobotrinsp 159 




590 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Crepidula 528, 531, 532, 548, 549 



adunca 321 



convexa 321 



foriiicata 321 



plana, 321, 322, 325-333, 335-337, 

 344-355 



veliger 531 



Cristiceps australis 442 



Crossorhinus 419 



Cyarda 496 



acuminipennis 497 



confonnis 497 



melichari 496,497 



punctata 497 



Cvcloptilum 316 



Cynthia 199 



Cyperus cylindricus 455 



Cyrtophyllus 280 



(Lea) floridensis 302 



perspicillatus 302 



Daba 252 



Dactylotum variegatuui 56 



Dascalia 498 



Dasyatidse 419 



Dasvatis 419 



Dasyscelus 388 



atrifrons 388 



demigratus 388 



normalis 388 



Delphacida 467 



Dendrium buxifolium 455 



Dendroica discolor 456 



vigorsii 456 



Dentalium 351,352 



Derbida 468 



Derotmema delicatulum 72 



Diapheromera 30,283 



arizonensis 30, 76 



ealcarata 30, 76 



femorata 76 



Dicentrarchus 250 



Diceratoptyx 502,506 



I )ichopetala brevicauda 56 



brevihastata 56 



l8e\'is 56 



Dichromorpha 167 



australis 167 



viridis 287 



Dichroplus 187 



arrogans 187 



bergii 187,188 



cinctipes 188 



cliens 187 



dvibius 188 



oxilis 187 



lemniscatus 187 



paraguayensis 187 



patruelis 187 



punctulatus 188 



robustus 187 



Dictyophara 469, 471 



Dictyophara cur\aceps 469 



florens 469-471 



lingula 469,470 



microrhina 469 



Dictyopharida 468 



Diotyophorus guttatus 291 



Dinoplulida> 135 



Dinopliilus, 82-143, 525, 528, 531, 532 



apatris, 89, 90, 92, 93, 99, 102, 109, 



113, 114, 116, 120, 127, 130, 131 



borealis 94 



caudatus 94 



oonklini 82-93,94-143 



gardineri 91, 92, 108 



gigas, 89-91, 93, 102, 109, 110, 112, 



120, 129-131 



gyrociliatus, 89, 90, 92, 93, 100, 1 10, 



113, 114, 120, 122, 127, 130, 132 



metameroides....S8, 92, 93, 121, 130 



pygmffius 92, 94 



rostratus 94 



sphaerocephalus 94 



taeniatus, 91, 92, 102, 109, 110, 112, 



115, 121, 122, 126, 129-132, 134 



vorticoides, 87, 88, 91, 92, 94-97, 



102, 110, 112, 115, 120, 129-132, 



135 



Diodia \'irginiana 458 



Diodon blochii 439 



Diodontidffi 439 



Diogmites winthemi 294 



Diosp^TOs virginiana 456 



Diplectrum formosum 263 



radiale 263 



Diplocrepis costatus 445 



Diponthus 179 



paraguayensis 179 



Discodrilidse 126 



Discocoelis, 524-526, 528, 540, 541, 545, 



546 



tigrina 520, 524, 530 



Dissosteira Carolina 225, 226 



Dolomite 446 



Drymajus 193 



dormani 193 



Duleida; 150,264 



Dules 150,264 



auriga 150, 264 



aurigera 264 



malo 150,264 



marginatus 264 



mato...... 264 



tscniunis 264 



Dulidff 150,264 



Dulus 264 



Ectatoderus 316 



Elasochlora 174 



viridicata 174 



Elcocharis melanocarpa 458 



ochreata 458 



Elcutheractis coriaceus 269 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIKiNCEiS OK PHILADELPHIA. 



591 



I'lliilipU-ra 17.3 



I'^llipcs mimita 65 



Jjiipitlonax niiniinus 45S 



Kiu'liylr:i'id:i' 126 



Kucuptolopluiti 36 



costalis 289 



subgracilis 36 



texensis 36, 72, 76 



Eueoptera 395 



surinamensis 395 



Enoopterinse 395 



Eiioplosidac 433 



iMioplusiis ariuatus 433 



Eiitosplieuus tricU'utatus 464 



Eotettix sigiiatus 294 



palustris 2Sl,294 



Epigouichthys leiicayanuin 461 



Epilampra 153 



. ^ brasilionsis 153 



Epilainprinse 153 



Epiueplielinte 252 



Epiiiephelus 252, 257, 258 



afer 258 



hracliysoma 253 



clialinius 261 



chloropterus 25S, 260 



fuscoguttatus 255 



liglitfooti 258 



onlinatus ^54, 255 



ruber ; 261 



Eptatretida^ 461 



Eptatretus burgeri 461 



Ereinopedes unirolor 64, 74 



Eriautlnis coinpactus 458 



P>i()phorum polystachion 456 



fJritettix 33 



abortivus 33 



variabilis.. 33 



Erythronium virginieum 457 



Eudtilus 2o4, 265 



subligarius 265 



Euglandina 193 



EunifidfT 110, 134 



Euonymus ainericanus 458 



Eupatorium album 456 



ccelestinum 458 



leucolepis 455 



mafulatum 456 



porfoliatum 457 



purpurcvun 457 



rosinosum 455 



rotundifolium 456 



Eupedctes carinatus 33 



navicula 33 



tricarinatus 33 



Euphorbia ipecacuana> 456 



Euploctrotottix 167 



fon-uginous 167 



Eurycotis floridana 282 



Eutiiamia caroliniana 456 



Eutryxalis 166 



Eutryxali.-i gracilis 166 



Evotoiuys gappcri rhoadsi 456 



ExocdJlidiu 424 



ExocoDtus voiitans 424 



Fagus anicric-ana 456 



Faicifula 3iy 



liobardi 'H^ 



Fasciolaria 32 1, 349 



Fenestra ' \{yj 



bohlsii 107 



Ficula carb;isea 214 216 



• decussatus ' 214 



veutricosus 214 



mississippiensis 214 



Filix fragilis 457 



Fiona 528,532 



Fistularia petiinba 425 



Flata bivittata 495 



Flatida 467, 495, 496 



Flatoides 497 



fuscus 4y7 



scabrosus 497, 498 



Forficulidai 25, 151, 281 



Fulgorida !.467! 468 



Fulgoridic 467 



Fulgur 320-359 



carica 321, 353 



Fusus bifron.s 238 



Garrupa nigrita 257 



Gaultheria procumbens 456 



Gaylussacia dumosa 454 



t'roudosa 454 



re,siaosa 454 



Gempylus 265 



Geniorhyuclius 227 



»schn;c 227 



Gentiana porpliyrio 455 



Geraniuiu robertianuni 457 



Gerardia purpura 456 



Glyptolasiiia 412, 415 



subcarinatum 412, 416 



Gobicsocida; 444 



Gordiacea 270 



Gordius alascensis 270, 272 



aquaticus 271 



a. robustus 271 



densaraiolatus 272 



linoatus 271 



longaroolatus 272 



platyceplialus 272 



robustus 271 



villoti 271,272 



V. difficilis ' 271 



^^olaceus 272 



Granimadera 377 



albida 377,378 



clara 377,378 



liastata 378 



forcipata 380 



pollucida 378 380 



ros(>a 378 




592 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Grammadera rostrata 378, 381 



Gratiosa pilosa 458 



Greenockite 446 



Gregarina 221, 225 



aclietai-abbreviatse, 220, 221, 222, 



225 



fimbriata 225,226 



kingi 221 



locustse-carolina; 225, 226 



melanopli 223 



Gryllacrina? 393 



Gryllacris caroliuensis 393 



Grvllidse 65, 80, 315, 395 



Gryllina? 395 



Gryllotalpinse 395 



Gryllus 395 



abbreviatus 221,223 



alogiis 65, 66, 81 



argentinus 395 



armatus 65, 74, 81 



assimilis 80, 395 



conocephalus 389 



integer 66 



locustce-earolinre 225 



nigra 377 



obliquum 192 



pennsylvanicus 66 



personatus 65, 80 



punctulatus ^55 



rubens 317 



rufipes 192 



scaber 174 



serratus 170 



(Bulla) serratus 169, 169 



surinamensis 395, 395 



Aaolaceum 192 



"vdolaceus 192 



Gymnandeniopsis nivea 458 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus 293 



Gyrotheca tinctoria 455 



Hadrotettix 45 



trifasciatus 45 



Hsemulidse 433 



Haliotida? 396-407 



Haliotis 396-407 



craclierodii 396, 399 



glabra 398,400 



rufescens 396, 405, 406 



tuberculata 398, 400, 405, 406 



Hapithus agitator 318 



brevipennis 318 



quadratus 318 



Harmonia picta 21 



Harpochreta 134 



Helianthus angustifolius 455 



Heliastus 45 



aridus 46-73 



• benjamini 45, 73 



Helicoptera 475, 476, 480 



colorata 476,476 



opaea 475-477 



Helicoptera pallida 476-479 



septentrionalis 476-478, 480 



slossoni 476, 478 



variegata 476-478,471) 



vestita 476 



Hemeroccetes 440 



Hemieoris remidius 439 



Hemizaptyx 501, 503, 505,510 



HermellidtB Ill 



Hesperotettix i'estivus 73, 77 



floridensis 295 



viridis 73 



Heterodontus 419 



Heteronemia 283 



Heterozaptyx 501, 507 



Hicoria alba 456 



glabra 456 



minima 456 



Hieracium giganteum 457 



Hippiscus 36 



corallipes 36 



pardalinus 37 



zapotecus 36 



Hippocampus 426 



abdomi nalis 428, 431 



agnesae 429 



bleekeri 426, 42«> 



Hirudinea 125 



Histriobdella (Histriodrilus) 104, 110 



HomcEogamia apacha 75 



erratica 75 



infuscata 75 



Homotoicha 376 



fuscopunctata 376 



minor 376 



Hormilia abbreviata 59 



apache 58 



elegans n^, 78 



Hyalopteryx 166 



lamellipes 166 



rufipennis 166 



specularis 166 



Hydrolagus 419 



colliei , 421 



waitei 41 J) 



Hypericum adpressum 458 



densifoliimi 455 



gymnanthum 458 



virgatum ovalifolium 455 



Hyperophora 371 



angustipennis 373 



brasiliensis 371 



cerviformis 371 



gracilis 373 



major 373 



minor 375 



Hj'perphrona 382 



angusta 382 



binotata 382 



signata 382 



Hypoplectrus uiiirolor clilorurus.... 263 




1907.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



Ilypoplt'ctius unifolor frucotus 2()2 



HystiTdptiriiin 493,495 



aficiilatum 494 



aiironnim 494 



c'ormitum 493 



pum-tilVnim 494 



IrlitliyoMiyzon castaneus 464 



C'oMColor 464 



Ilox oi^ica 456 



Ilidoidos inucrouata 457 



Illycmassa.... 321,351 



Iris prisinatica 456 



Ischnoptera 25, 152 



Imisiliensis 152 



couloniana 25 



jolinsoiii 282 



pennsylvanica 25 



iihloriana 25 



unicolor 25 



Ailis 152 



Isonyx 167 



paraguayensis 167 



Isophva 370 



borellii..... 370,371 



brasiliensis 370 



hamata 370 



Issida 468, 473, 492, 495 



Issus conspersus 494 



Itea \nr^inica 455 



Jodacris l'S5 



ferruginea 185 



(?)nebulosa 185, /S-5 



Jumala 244 



Junous caesariensis 455 



marginatus aristulatus 455 



militaris 456 



pelocarpus 456 



sptaoeus 458 



Junipprus virginiana 456 



Kalmia angustifolia 455 



latifolia 455 



Kathetostoma l.Tve 442 



Kosteletzkva virginica 458 



Kulilia :. 150,264 



malo 264 



niarginata 264 



m. Iioninensis 264 



mato.... 150,265 



ruppstris 264 



Kuliliidn- 150 



Labia burgessii 281 



guttata 281 



niolanoliolioa 25 



Labraropsis japonicus 250 



Labrax 249 



japonicus 249 



iabrax 249 



LabridiP 433 



Labrus giiaza 252, 254 



Lacinaria spicata 457 



graminifolia pilosa 455 



39 



bactista oslari 72 



Lamniceps 389 



giglio-tosi • 389 



[ Lampptra u'pytera 465 



' braiu'liiale 466 



pibaria 464 



fluviatilis 464 



wildpri 464,466 



Lagis korpiii 114, 116 



j Laiiius ludoviciauus 458 



■ Lateolabrax 249 



] Latirus 245 



Leiotettix 188 



flavipes .189 



hastatus 189 



punctipes 188 



I viridis 188 



sanguineus 189 



I Lemnisonia 265 



Lepadinir 408 



Lepidaplois albotseniatus 436 



bilunulatus 436 



* richardsoni 43$ 



Leprus 37 



elephas 37 



glaucipcnnis 37 



: Leptoplana 515, 535, 546, 547 



Leptothcca (Chloromyxum) ohl- 



macheri 278 



Leptvsma 775,281 



miforniis , 179, 180 



marginicoUis 179, 292 



obscura 179, 180 



Lesquprella 247 



alpina 247 



arctica 247 



J argentea 247 



argyrea 247. 



I beriandieri 248 



dpnsiflora 248 



didymocarpa 248 



I douglasi 248 



engelmanni 248 



fendleri 248 



globosa 247 



gracilis 247 



grandiflora 248 



lepidata 248 



lindhcinieri 248 



ludoviciana 247 



inontana 247 



nuttalli 248 



occidentalis 248 



purpurea 248 



recurvata 247 



schaffneri 248 



stenophila (humilis) 248 



s. (procera) 248 



Lesuerella platycephalus 440 



Lcsuerina 440 



Leucothoe racemosa 455 




^01 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Ligocatiuus 376 



Liguus 193 



Ligociitiiias olivaceus 376 



Lilium superbum 456 



J.imax 528 



Jiniicula 426 



Liiiiiculina 425 



Liinua'a 328 



Liniosella tcnuifolia 457 



Lioproponiiiiie 250 



Lipiioplus 316 



krugii 316 



Liquidambar styradflua 456 



Liriodendron tulipil'era 456 



Lirometopum 389 



Litaneutria 26 



niinoi' 75 



skinneri 26 



Lobelia caubyi 455 



cardinalis 457 



puberula 458 



Locusta conocephalus 392 



maxillosa 390 



punctata 392 



Locustina^ 169,291 



Lopadorhyiichus 95, 108, 113 



Lophiola americana 455 



Xioxophora 469, 472 



transversa 473 



Luchupliffidusa 499,500 



Lumbriculidie 126 



Lycopodium alopeciu'oides 455 



carolinianum 455 



Macleaj'ina 426 



Macneillia obscura 286 



MacrorhamphosidaJ 425 



jVIacrorhamphosus 425 



. humerosus 426 



p scolopax 425 



s. elevatus 425 



Magelona papillicornis 203, 204 



rosea. 201, 204 



Magnolia virginiana 454 



Maldanidie 110 



Malo 150 



Manganese 445 



Manomera 283 



tenuescens 283 



"Mantidae 26, 67, 75, 153, 282 



"Mantinse 153 



Mantis argentina , 156 



crenatiooUis 155 



tfuscifolia 159 



■gavi 155, 156 



siiiuata 159, 159 



"Marcasite 446 



"Mato 150 



Megalasma 408-416 



annandalei 416 



Vielluin 409-415 



• carinatum 413, 416 



Megalasma cariuodentatuui, 409, 412, 



415 



gracile 413-415 



gracilius 414 



g. gracilius 414, 415 



minus 409-415 



rectum 416 



striatum 410-415 



s. subsp. minus 409 



Megaloplucdusa 499 



Meibomia stricta 455 



Melanoplus 51 



aridus 51 



atlanis 78 



brownii 73 



corpidentus 55 



deletor 297,298 



desultorius ol 



differentialis 78 



fiavidus 74, 77 



f emoratus 225 



t'emur-rubrum 55, 295 



fiavidus 54 



herbaceus 77 



li. flavescens 77 



humphre.ysii 51 



impudicus 459 



inops 295 



keeleri 296-298 



lakinus 51 



pictus 77 



propinquus 295 



puer 297 



regalis 55 



sanguineus 55 



sonoric 51 



stonei 459 



thomasi 55 



Menyantlies trifoliata 457 



Mermiria 31 



alacris 285,286 



bi\'ittata 31 



intertexta 286 



neomexicana 69 



texana 32 



vigilans 286 



Mesochloa 33 



Mestobregma 38 



gracilipes 4^ 



rubipenne 38, 72 



Metabrixia 484 



aspersa 484 



Metazaptyx 502,508 



Microcentrum 388 



lanceolatum 388 



laurifolium 63. 78 



retinerve 64 



Mimus polyglottos 458 



Miogryllus lineatus 74 



Mionorus ramsayi 431 



Mogoplistes slossoni 315 




190/ 



NATURAL SCTION'CES OF rillLADELrill A. 



595 



Molylxlcnitc 445 



.M()ii;icaiitliiil;r 439 



Moiiopsis 474,475 



H()ri(hi> 475,470 



I'usi-a 470 



tal)icla 474 



Moiiorliacliis 484 



sortlulciitus 484 



Moruno 250 



aincricaiui 250 



iiitciTupta 250 



Moroni I uo 249 



Miiiiatia australis 169 



punctata 169 



.MuruMiiclitlivs breviceps 423, 424 



(h'visi...^ 421 



lucliolsir 424 



oKilbyi 423 



Miiiex aluco 364 



aspcr 365 



vcrtagus 365, 367 



Musonia loS 



Myctoroperca acutirostris 261 



a. tinea 261 



venosa apua 260 



Mvndus 484,491 



delicatus 492 



iulvus 492 



impunctatiis 4S2 



pictifrons 491 



radicis 492 



slossoni 492 



sordidipennis 482, 491 , 492 



viridus 492 



Mvliobatis 419 



Myridir 421 



Myriodon 250 



MyriodontiniT^ 250 



Myxine glutinosa 461 



MyxinidiP 461 



.Myzostomidtc 110 



Xaidomorpha 126 



Xassa 351 



Xonu)l)ius anibitiosus 317 



fasciatus 316 



neomexicanus 65 



socius ; 316 



Xcotettix bolteri 285 



femoratus 285 



Xoreis 330, 528, 531, 532, 548 



Xerilla 111.134 



Xeritina 321,340,528 



Xomotettix cristatus 284 



Xyctibora =.. 152 



crassicornis 152 



omissa 152 



vestita 152 



X'vctil)oriiKT' 152 



Xyssa sylvatica 454 



Oceanomyzon 4<51. I()4 



wilsoni 401, 4(J2 



Udontoxipliidiuni ai)lcruin 314 



(Kcantlms aificntiniis OG^ 



calirornicu.s 74, 81 



iiif^rifornis 66- 



nivL'Us 66' 



(luadripunctatus 318 



ix'luii 74 



CEclcus 484,488- 



decens 488- 



n^:dipodin:t> 167,289' 



Olcypliidcs 165- 



lasc'iatiis 165' 



liopii 165 



Olianis 484, 485, 487 



aridus 485,486 



coniplcctus 485, 487, 488 



ciiuianionicus 485, 488 



Iranciscanus 486 



liunuM-alis 487 



liuinilis 485,488 



liyalinus 485,487 



pima 486 



5-lineatus 485, 486, 489 



8onientinus 486 



vicarius 485, 486 



Oligochieta 125,132 



Oligoguatlius 112 



Oli.sozaptvx 502.509 



Onialotcttix 185- 



nebulosa 18S 



signatipes 185- 



Ommexecha 168 



germari 168 



servillei 168 



virens 168 



Opeia 34 



tcstacea 34 



Ophyrotrocha 128,134 



Opsomala filiformis ISC' 



Orclielinuun delicatum 309, 311 



fidiciniun 30J> 



glaberrimum 306 



gladiator 309 



niilitaro 311 



niolossuni 3()(>. 307 



nitiduni 300,307 



volant uni 311 



Orgerius 469, 472, 473 



rhyparus 472, 473 



Orplnila 166 



pagana'. 166 



Orplmk'lla 34, 167, 288 



compta 34 



gracilis 167 



graniinea 76 



olivacea 287,458 



pelidna 287 



pratorum 287 



punctata 167 



Orphulina 166 



pulcliclla 166 




596 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Orj-zoniys pahislris 45S 



■Osbeckia scripta 439 



OsmiUa 192 



\aolacea 192 



Ossa 168 



biniaculata...... 168 



Ostraciida? 439 



concatenatus 439 • 



cornutus 439 



leutigiiiosus 439 



Oxj'a ornatissima ISO, 181 



Oxybleptella 180 



sagitta 180 



Oxyops 159 



Oxyopsis \m,159 



lobeter 159 



media 159 



obtusa 159 



rubicunda 159 



Paiichlora 153 



hyalina 153 



viridis 153 



Panclilorina^ 153 



Panicum sphagnicola 455 



Parabacillvis 30 



coloradus 30 



pahneri 30 



Paracentropristis hepatus 266 



Paradichroplus Iwrellii 191 



Paragordius varius 271, 272 



Paralabracina> 249 



Paralabrax clatliratus 263 



maculo-fasciatus 263 



iiebulifer 263 



Paraleptynia 162 



fosteri 164 



Paraleuas 185 



bohlsii 185 



fosteri 185 



Paramusonia 158 



livida 158 



Paranthias furrifer 267 



Parascopas 191 



obesus 191 



Paratettix 30 



mexicanus 31 



toltecus 30,69 



t. extensus 31 



Paratropes 153 



elegans 153 



vestita .*. 152 



Parazaptyx 502,508 



Parmophonis 402 



Paroxya atlantica 298 



floridiana 298 



scudderi 459 



Paspalum glabratum 458 



Patella 321 



calyptra 366 



Pedicularis lanceolata 457 



Pelotropis 47-4 



Polotropis rotulata 474 



Peltonotellus bivittatus 493 



decoratus 492,493 



liistrionicus 493 



rugosus 493 



simplex 492,493 



Pepsis 377 



Perca areolata 252 



elongata 250 



gigas 252 



labrax 250 



summana var. fuscoguttata 257 



Percalabrax 249 



japonicus 249 



Percichthyinic 249 



Perciclithys mclanops 249 



trucha 249 



Periplaneta americana 282 



australasia" 282 



truncata 282 



Petroinetopon cnientatum 252 



c. coronatum 252 



Petromyzon -462, 464 



(Batliymyzon) bairdii 464 



marinus 464 



m. unicolor 464 



Petromvzonida^ 461 



Pezotettix bergii 188 



Phaneropterina? 370 



Pharopterygina? 267 



Pharopteryx corallicola 268 



Pliasma coronata 161, 162 



fasciatum 165 



hopii 165 



Pliasmida- 29, 76, 161, 283 



PhcEtaliotes nebrascensis 56 



volucris 56 



Phoraspis elegans 153 



Photina 156 



brevis 15<> 



vitrea 156 



Phrynotettix 46 



magnus 46 



robustus 46 



tshivavensis 46 



Phyllodromia borealis 25 



PhVlloptera 382 



' alliedea 382 



cassinaifolia 382 



lanceolata 388 



spinulosa 382 



Pliyllopteryx elongatus 426 



tffiniopterus 426 



Phylloscelis 469,471-473 



albovenosa 472 



atra 472 



pallescens 471, 472 



Physa 328 



Piaropus crassipes 301 



Pica 366 



Picea cngclmanni 8 




19:)7. 



XATLTRAL SCIRN'CES OF PIULADELPIIIA. 



597 



Pi('<^;i p;iirv;ina 5 



l^ifus ■ 366 



Pinus eilulis 17 



iiuirrayaiui 16 



palustris 281 



rigida 454 



scopuloruin IG 



sylvcstris 20 



vii-iiiniana 456 



Planaria caiulata 94 



Planocera, 145, 524, 526, 528, 531. 545. 



547-549 



elliptica 526 



graffii 146 



liawaiieiisis 147, 14S 



iiKiuilina 514-559 



Plannrbis ...328,528 



Platamis occidentalis 456 



Plectoderes 480 



Plectropoma chlortiptci-iiin 258 



orocota 262 



Pleurodonte 193 



Pleiirotoniaria 404 



Pcecilasina 408,413 



grarile 414 



Polioptila coerulea 458 



Polistotroiua polytrema 461 



stoutii .' 461 



Polycluvta 132. 134 



Polyolierus caudatus 522 



Polydora 197 



anoculata 19", 199 



folonia 199^ 199 



Polygala brevifolia 455 



lut(>a 455 



nuttalli 456 



Polygonum care\a 457 



Polygyra ". 193 



Polynnida^ 110 



Polyjiriou ainoricanum 251 



Polyprionina- 250 



Pomacentridip 433 



Praticolclla 193 



Prionacri.s 176 



coinpressa 176 



erosa 176 



Prionodes 264 



Prionoloplia 169, 170 



l)rovipenni.s 1G9 



sL-rrata 169 



Priono.spio heterobrancliia 195 



tenuis 197,203 



Procolpia 169 



emarginata 169 



minor 169 



Pro.scopinrp 165 



Protodrilus 100, 110. 131 



Prunus sorotina 456 



Pseudohelif'optera 477 



Pseudomnpimp 152 



P.spudopliasmin£r 165 



Pscudopliylliniv 3S8 



Pseudoscrinvie 29 



tridi'iis". 29 



truiR-ata 29,30 



Pseudotsuga mucronata 56 



PseudovertagiLs 36H-368 



Psinidia lenestralis 290 



Prfohessa 35 



Iniddiana 35, 72 



maculipennis 35, 71 



texana 71 



Psychichthys 419 



Purpura .321 



freycineti 246 



f. alabaster 246 



Pycno.scelus surinamensis 282 



Pyrazus 365, 366, 368 



herculea 365 



Pyrgomorpliiiiic 168 



Pyrola chlorantha 457 



secaiuda 457 



PjTula 194,208-219 



carbasea 210, 214, 215 



condita 194, 210, 211, 215, 216 



decussata 210,211, 214-216, 218 



dassumieri, 210, 211. 215, 216, 218 



ficus 210, 211, 215, 216 



(ilia 210, 214, 215 



harrisi 212 



mississippicnsis. 194, 210. 214-216 



papyratia 194, 209-214, 216-218 



p. caloosahatchiensis 210, 212 



pilsbryi 210, 213, 214-218 



p. duplinensis 210, 213, 214 



reticulata 210, 211, 215, 216 



tessellata 210,211,216 



Pyxidanthera barbulata 455 



Quercus ooccinea 456 



digitata 456 



marylandica 454 



michauxii 458 



minor 454 



nana 454 



pliellos 456 



platanoides 456 



prinus 454 



prinoide.s 454 



Quiscalus major 458 



Radinotatum brexnpenne 285 



Rami 278 



Ranuncuhn abortivas 457 



fascicularis 457 



recurvatus 457 



Remora rcmora 439 



Rhexia mariana 456 



Rhinoclavis 366 



Rhododendron maximum 457 



Rhomalea stoUi 174 



Rhvptieus n\aculatus 269 



Ricaniida 468 



Roccus chrj'sops 249 




59S 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. , 



Roccus lineatus 249 



Rotatoria 133-135 



Rynehospora corniculata inacros- 



tadiya 458 



gracillenta ■. 455 



knicskernii 455 



oligantha 455 



pallida 455 



rariflora 458 



torreyana 455 



Rypticus bistrispiiiis 269 



coriaceus 269 



xanti 268 



saponaceus 269 



Sabal palmetto 280 



Sabbatia angularis 457 



lanceolata 455 



Saccocirrus 110, 112 



Sacciolepis gibba. 458 



Salmonia steliata 457 



Sassafras sassafras 454 



Scalpellum 360 



album 361 



balanoides 360 



gonionotum 360 



intermedium 360 



japonicum 360 



j. metapleurum 360 



laccadivicum 360 



nipponense 360 



weltnerianum 361 



Scaphura 377 



chalybea 377 



nigra 377 



vigorsii 377 



Scapteriscus 395 



camerani 395 



Sclieuchzeria palustris 457 



Schistocerca 186 



alutacea 292 



americana 292 



damnifica 292 



flavofasoiata 186 



infumata 186 



obscura 293 



rubiginosa 292,293 



shoshone 47, 77 



vaga 47, 73, 77 



venusta 47 



Schizsea pusilla 456 



Scirtetica picta 290 



Sciurus carolinensis leucotis 456 



Scleria torreyana 455 



Sclerolepis uniflora 455 



Scolops 468, 469, 471, 473 



pungens 471 



Scolopsella 469, 471 



reticulata 471 



Scopas 191 



ol'esus 1^1,191 



Scotussa 191 



Scotii.ssa impudica 191 



rul)ripes 191 



Scutldera cuneata 301 



eurvicauda '. 301 



furcifera 63 



laticauda 300.301 



mexicana 63, 74 



texcnsis 300 



Scyliorhinidte 41^ 



Scyliorhinus 41& 



Scyllina 34,167 



brasiliensis 167 



brunneri 167 



calida 34,71 



conspersa 167 



patria; 34 



varipes 167 



Selenoptyx .502,510 



Senecio aureus 457 



tomentosa 458 



Serenoa serratula 279 



Serpulida^ Ill 



Serranellus cabrilla 266 



scriba 266 



Serranida; 249 



Serranina? 252, 262 



Serranus 252,262 



alexandrinus 252 



dermochirus 257 



(Epinephelus) dictyophorus.... 257 



fiavolimbatus 252 



guaza 253 



g. mentzelii 253, 254 



heniochus 257 



horridus 257 



labriformis 254 



lanceolatus 257 



maculatus 257 



maculosus 252 



megachir 257 



merra 255 



morio 255 



nigritus 257 



niveatus 252 



pluBostigmaeus 255 



quernus 252 



sexfasciatus 257 



striatus 255 



Sevastana odorata 457 



Silene pennsylvanica 458 



Siphonaria 327 



Smilax laurifolia 455 



tamnifolia 455 



walteri 455 



Solengnathus 426 



spinosissimus 426 



Solidago erecta 455 



fistulosa 455 



stricta 455 



Spathvema fcrtida 457 



Sphalerite 446 




1907.] 



NATURAL SCIEN'CES Ol' IMlll.AUELrillA. 



599 



.Spliaragi'inoii 37 



boUii 290 



collaro 37 



c. wvoiiiinfjianum 290 



.Spheroidcs riolici 439 



Spio 548 



Spioiiidcs cirratus 206 



liinbriata 20G 



japonicus 204 



Spinier 446 



.Spoiigiphora 25 



apicidentata 25 



Sporobolus asper 458 



sei'otinus 456 



torreyanus 455 



Stagmomantis 28 



androgyna 67 



c-aroliiia 29,282 



gracilipcs (57 



heterogamia 67 



limbata 28, 29, 67, 75, 76 



niontana 67 



venusta 67 



Staiirorliectus 167 



glaucipes 167 



longicornis 167 



Steleoxiphus 162 



catastates 162, 103 



Stenaeris 180,281 



chlorizans 291 



cocdncipes 180 



Stenopelmatus calilornicus 64 



oculatus 64, 78 



Stenopola 180 



bohlsii 180 



dorsalis 180 



Stenophora 220,221 



erratica 221 



julipusilli 221 



Stephanophora 225 



locusta?-carolina> 225, 226 



pacliyderina 226 



Stereolepis gigas 250 



Stereozaptyx 502, 508 



Sternaspis 122 



Stiginatophora nigra 426 



Stvlochus 541,546 



pillidium 516,540 



(Stylochopi.s) pillidium 545 



Succinea campostris 458 



c. vagans 458 



Sycotypus 321-323,327 



canaliculatus 321, 517 



Svllidaj 110 



SVllides verrilli 448 



Syllodes longicirrata 451 



setosa 451 



Syinmetropleura modesta 301 



Synaptomj's coopsri 456 



Syngnathida; 426 



Sviignathus semistriatus 426 



Svrbwla 32 



adinirabilis 32, 286 



I'u.scuvitlata 32 



leucocerca : 32 



Syrphus 14, 20, 21 



Tambinia 474 



Taiuias striatus 456 



Taiigia sponsa 474 



Taiigidia 474 



Tecoina radicaus 458 



Telescopiuiu 365 



I Tcltnatettix aztecus 69 



Teninoptcryx virginica 25 



Terapon cuvieri 433 



Terebra 365 



Tethys 327 



Tetradrachtnuin aruanum 433 



Telrodon iiigropunctatus 439 



Tetrodoiitidui 439 



Tettigidea 165 



lateralis 285 



inulticostata 165 



spicata 285 



Tettigoriidaj 56, 74, 78, 300, 370 



Tlialictruiu polygamuni 457 



Thamiiatoptyx 502, 511, 512 



Therapon theraps 264 



Thespis cubensis 158 



livida 158 



Thesprotia graminis 283 



Thionia 494 



buUata 494 



elliptica 494 



naso 494,495 



ocellata 494 



producta 494 



simplex 494 



transversalis 494 



Tofieldia racemosa 455 



Tomonotus 37 



aztecus 38,72 



ferruginosus 37, 72 



Toxopterus 167 



miniatus 167 



Trapidonotiis lajvipes 173 



Trepidulus 45 



gracilipcs J^5 



mcUeolus 45 



Trichonotidsc 440 



Trioiitalis americana 457 



Trigloc'hin maritima 457 



Trimerotropis alliciens 41 



bruneri 41 



citrina 42,291 



cyanea 45 



cyancipciinis 45 



fasoicula 41, 73 



laticincta 42 



latifasciata 42 



magnifioa 42 



mclanoptcra 44 




GOO 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Trimerotropis pistriiiaria 42 



tolteca 42 



vinculata 45, 77 



Tritia 352 



Trochus gibberosus 398 



Tropiduchida 468, 474 



Tropinotus 170 



discoideus 170 



guarani 170 



kevipes 173 



lineatus 174 



obsoletus 170 



regularis 173 



Truxalis 166 



brevicornis 166 



obscuriis 180 



Trygonoptera testacea 419 



TiibificidcT 126 



Turbellaria 94, 133, 134 



Turpilia 385 



linearis 385 



mexicana 385 



paraguayensis 385 



Ukko 244 



Illmus americana 456 



Umbrella 528 



Unifolium canadense 456 



Unio 525,528 



Uranoscopidse 442 



Urosalpinx 321, 325, 351, 528 



Utricularia clandestina 456 



Vaccinium atrococcum 456 



corymbosum 455 



pennsylvanicum 457 



vascilians 455 



Varicella 193 



Vates 69 



parfensis 68 



townsendi 68,69 



Vatina? 159 



Vermes 130 



Vernonia noveboracene-is 457 



Vertagus 365, 306, 368 



Viburnum nudum 455 



Vilerna 186 



fcneo-oculata 186 



rugulosa 186 



Viola cucullata 457 



papilionacea 457 



sagitta 457 



Voluta muricina 229 



petrosa 229,230 



ypinosa 229,230 



Volutilithes 229,23a 



petrosus 194 



precursor 230 



Volutopsius hirasei 243 



regularis 243. 



Vortex capitata 92 



Willoughbseya scandcns 458 



Woodwardia areolata 456 



virginica 456 



Xerophyllum aspodeloides 455 



Xiphelimum 392 



amplipennis 392 



Xiphicera eniarginata 169 



viridicata 174 



Xiphidion 389,392 



fasciatum 64, 313 



nigropleurum 313 



Xiphidium longipes 392 



saltator 393 



strictoides 393 



Xiphiola 186 



borellii 186 



cyanoptera 186 



Xolisma ligustrina 455 



Xyxis fimbriata 455 



Yersinia 26 



solitaria 26 



Zamelodia ludoviciana 458; 



Zaphrentis 446 



Zaptyx 499, 501, 502, 506,507 



Zoniopoda 174 



cruentata 175 



eniarginata 174 



exilipes 176 



iheringi 174 



omnicolor 176 



similis 175 



tarsata 174, 175, 175 



Zygoelistron 181 



superbum 181 



trachvstictum 181 




1907. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



601 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1907. 



Additions to Museum, 579. 



Annual J'^lections, 577. 



Annual Kepurts, 564. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of. 572. 



Botanical Section, report of, 575. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 572. 



Bradley, J. Cliester. The Hymenop- 

 teroiis P^aniily Evaniida», 193. 



Brown, A. E., D.Sc. On the theory of 

 mutation (no alxstract), 144. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Sectibn, 575. 



Calvert, Philip P., Ph.D. On a trip to 

 Mexico (no abstract), 144. 



Cassatt, Alexander J., announcement of 

 death of, 23. 



Coles, Edward, announcement of death 

 of, 1. 



Committees. Standing, 1. 



Conklin, Edwin G., Ph.D. Embry- 

 ology of Fulgur : A Study of the Influ- 

 ence' of Yolk on Development (Plates 

 XXIII-XXVIII), 23, 350, 417. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 565, 



Council 1908, 577. 



Crawley, Howard. The Polycystid 

 Gregarines of the I'nited States 

 (Third Contribution) (Plate XVIII), 

 220. 



Curators, report of, 570. 



Dall, ^^'illiam Healey. On the Syno- 

 nj'mic History of the Genera Clava 

 Martvn, and " Cerithium Bruguidre, 

 363, "417. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D Report of 

 Curators, 570. 



DuBois, ?Ioward W. Hydraulic Min- 

 ing in British Columbia (no abstract), 

 23. 



Elections during 1907, 577. 



Entomological Section, report of, 574. 



FajTer, Joseph, INI.D., announcement 

 of death of, 418. 



Fowler, Henry W. Notes on Serrani- 

 daj. 249, 417. A Collection of 

 Fishes from Mctoria, Australia, 417, 



419. Notes on Lancelets and Lam- 

 preys, 461. 

 Garrison, F. Lynwood. Notes on 



Minerals, 445. 

 General Index, 601. 

 Gill, Theodore. Note on the Genus 



Kuhlia, 144, 150. 

 Gillette, C. P. Chermes of Colorado 



Conifers (Plates I-XI), 3. 

 Gillingham, Joseph E., announcement 



of death of, 418. 

 Harshberger, John W., Ph.D. On the 

 scientific application of Ecology (no 

 abstract), 149. 

 Heath, Harold. A New Turbellarian 



from Hawaii (Plate XIV), 145. 

 Heilprin, Angelo, announcement of 



death of, 418. Minute, 446. 

 Index to Genera, 586. 

 Jeanes, Anna T., announcement of 



death of, 418. 

 King, Helen Dean. Bertramia bufonis, 

 a new Sporozoan Parasite of Bufo 

 lentiginosus (Plate XXII), 273, 417. 

 Leffman, Henry, M.D. On diamonds 

 and diamond mining in Southern 

 Africa (no abstract), 2. Life in 

 other worlds (no abstract), 418. 

 Librarian, report of, 567. 

 Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 573. . 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



report of, 573. 

 Montgomery, Tliomas H., Jr. The 

 Distribution of the North American 

 Gordiacea, with description of a 

 new species, 270. 

 Moore, Clarence B Mounds^^lle re- 

 visited, 417. Crj'stal River re- 

 visited, 417. Mounds of the Lower 

 Chattalioochee and Lower Flint 

 Rivers, 417. Notes on the Ten 

 Thousand Islands, Florida, 417 (see 

 JOUHXAL, XIII, 3% 

 Moore, J. Percy, Ph.D. Description of 

 New Species of Spioniform Annelids 

 (Plates XV,''_XVI), 193, 195. De- 




602 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec. 



scriptioii of a New Species of Anne- 

 lid from Woods Hole, 448. Report 

 of Corresponding Secretary, 565. 



Nelson, James A., Pli.D. The Mor- 

 pliologvof Dinophilus Conklini n.sp. 

 (Plates XII, XIII), 23, 82. 



Nolan, Edward J., M.D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 564 . Report of 

 Librarian, 567. 



Officers, Councillors and Members of 

 the Committee on Finance, 577. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 576. 



Palmer, Clayton F. The Anatomy of 

 Californian Haliotid« (Plate XXX), 

 396, 417. 



Pilsbry, H. A., D.Sc. Origin of the 

 Tropical Forms of the Land Mollus- 

 can Fauna of Southern Florida, 193. 

 New and Little-knowai Whelks from 

 Northern Japan and the Kuril 

 Islands (Plates XIX and XX), 

 243. Notes on Some Pacific Cirri- 

 pedes (Plate XXIX), 360, 417. 

 Notes on Cirripede Genus Megalasma 

 (Plate XXXI), 408, 417. New 

 Clausiliidte of the Japanese Empire — 

 XI (Plates XXXII, XXXIII, 

 XXXIV), 499. Report on Depart- 

 ment of Mollusca, 571. 



Recording Secretary, report of the, 564. 



Rehn, James A. G. Notes on Orthop- 

 tera from Soutliern Arizona, wth 

 descriptions of new species, 23, 24. 

 Non-Saltatorial and Acridoid Or- 

 thoptera from Sapucay, Paraguay, 

 151. Orthoptera of the Families Tet- 

 tigonidse and Gryllida? from Sapucay, 

 Paraguay, 370, 417. 



Rehn, James A.G.,and Morgan Hebard. 

 Orthoptera from Northern Florida, 

 279, 417. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 572. 



Report of Botanical Section, 575. 



Heport of Corresponding Secretary, 

 565. ■ 



Pieport of Curators, 570. 



Report of Entomological Section, 574. 



Report of Librarian, 567. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 573. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 576. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 564. 



Reports of Sections, 572. 



Sections, reports of, 572. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. Loljster fish- 

 eries (no abstract), 447. 



Shyrock, William K., announcement of 

 death of, 193. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Life liistory of 

 insects (no abstract), 149. A visit 

 to Saskatchewan (no abstract), 446. 

 Report of Entomological Section, 

 574. 



Smith, Burnett. A Contribution to 

 the Morphology of Pyrula (Plate 

 XVII), 193, 208. Note on the 

 Value of the Gastropod Apex as a 

 Means of Classification, 194. A 

 new Species of Athleta, and a Note 

 on the jMorpliology of Athleta 

 petrosa, 229. 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Stearns, Frederick E.,* announcement 

 of death of, 144. 



Stone, Wltmer. The Life-Areas of 

 Southern New Jersey, 452. Report 

 of Ornithological Section, 576. 



Surface, Frank M. The Eariy Devel- 

 opment of a Polyclad, Planocera 

 inquilina \\h. (Plates XXXV-XL), 

 514. 



Underwood, Lucien M., announcement 

 of death of, 447. 



Vanatta, E. G. Notes on the Leaf- 

 hairs of Lesquerella (Plate XXI), 

 247, 417. 



Van Duzee, E. P. Studies of North 

 American Fulgoridte, 467. 



Vaux, George, Jr., and William S. 

 Observations made in 1907 on 

 Glaciers in Alberta and British 

 Columbia, 560. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXXII. 



rrrr^ 



V 



\ 



,((t«\ 



11, i I 



h 



i/^ 



^ 



y 



9 \ A 



I 



10 



I) 



/ 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE CLAUSILIID.^. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHELA. 1907 



PLATE XXXm. 



t 



13 



^^=^ 



fW'^ 



22 



23 



"^^^ 24 



25 



26 



I ~^, 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE CLAUSILIID.^. 



r- 



% 



29 \^^^ 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. I'HILA. 1007. 



<^. 



PLATE XXXIV. 



/ 



% 



30 



U^ 



38 



% 



39 



y 



31 



v^_ 



\ — 



44 45 



PILSBRY. JAPANESE CLAUSILIID.^. 



el 



(7 



33 



% 



% 



37 



!■ 



V 



46 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH[LA. 1907. 



PLATE XXXV. 



SURFACE. DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOCERA INQUILINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCl. PHlLA. lQo7. 



PLATE XXXVI. 



SURFACE. DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOCERA INQUILINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXXVII. 



/b'^ 



,d" :,^. 



SURFACE. DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOCERA INQUILINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



PLATE XXXVIII. 



22 



lb-' 



ki'" 



jd-^i ' 



jd'^s 



lb"-,,.,,. 



J,d'- 



Jd'== -^j^ 



iB ■: J,D ■ 



uf^ 



SURFACE. DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOGERA INQUILINA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1907. 



XXXIX. 



/rfiia 





31 





■,i(d- 



: f/"' 



SURFACE. DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOCERA INQUILINA. 





PROC ACAD. NAT SCI. PHtLA 1907 



PLATE XL. 



/,d='--" 



; c/--' ' 



SURFACE DEVELOPMENT OF PLANOCERA INQUILINA. 




w^- 






I I ' f 



MBI. WHOl 1 IHKAKY 



UH ] 



flSb b 







