



PROCEEDINGS 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLI VIE l.\\ III 





PH N 



. s 



r H I DEMY OF N 



A 




In i \i u>i mi op Natural. Sen mis of Philadelphia. 



.1 \\i \i;> !.">, I '.117. 



I hereby certify thai printed copies o! the Proceedings for L916 were 

 mailed as follow - 



33 64 



li.-. s| 



•■ 



197 31 l 



315 378 



•• 



127 171 



175 538 



•• 5 



-•is 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE! 



Henry -Kiwii;. M.D. Sc.D., Witmhi; Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henri A. Pil&brt, Sc.D., William . I. Fox, 



V'.irx \i;i. .1. Nolan, M.D.. Sc.D. 

 '//" /' i - mi n. Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., cx-o(fwio. 



II 'I Toll: Ki>\\ LRD .1. NOLAN, M.D., Sc.D. 




I () N'T K X T S. 



innouncemenls, Reports, etc., set General Index. 



PAGE 



Alexander, Charles P. New <>r little-known crane-flies 



from the United States and Canada: Tipulidse, Ptychop- 



teridffi, Diptera. Part 3 (Plates XXV XXXI) 180 



Banks, Nathan. Revision of Cayuga Lake spiders (Plates 



X, XI 68 



Barringer, Daniel M. A possible partial explanation of the 



visibility and brilliancy of comets. With an addendum 



by Elihu Thomson 172 



Berry, S. Stillman. Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands 



Plati - VI. \ M. \ III. LX) 45 



Cockerell, T. I ). A. >i>\;\<- bees from Australia, Tasmania, 



and the New Hebrides 360 



Colton, Harold, S. On aome varieties of Thai- lapillus in 



the M "i i ni Deserl region, a stud} of individual ecology 1 1" 

 Crawley, Howard. The sexual evolution of Sarcocystis muris 



(Plates I. II. MI. I\ :: 



The zoological position of Sarcosporidia 379 



Dall, William II. A new species of Onchidiopsis from 



!'•• • ing Sea 376 



Daniels, L. E. See Henders in, Ji mi b. 

 Fowler, Henri W. Cold-blooded vertebrates from Costa 



and the < 'anal Zone 389 



Notes on fishes of the order- Haplomi and \I\ crocyprini 1 15 

 M in, Harold. The aervous system of Crepidula adunca 



and n - d>\ elopmenl a I7'.» 



Hebard, Morgan. See Rehn, James \ < '>. 

 Hend Ji six s, and L. E. I >aniels. Hunting Mollu 



in Utahand [dahol Plates \ V. \\ I. \ \ 1 1. \ \ 1 1 1 315 



Jacobs, Merkel II., Ph.D. Temperature and the activiti 



<>i animal- v", 




iv rONTEN 



I'M, I 



Pilsbry, Henri \ Notes on the anatomj of Oreohelix, 

 with :i catalogue of the species (Plates XIX, \ \ . \ \ I 

 Wll 340 



IIi.hv James \ G and Morgan Hebard. Studie* in the 

 Dermaptera and Orthoptera ol the Coastal Plain and 

 Piedmont Section of the southeastern United States 

 Plates XII, XIII, XI\ 87 



Thomson, Elihi . See B irringer, I >. M 



Viere* k. Henri I.. New species of North American bees <>!' 

 the genus Andrena from wesl of the littitli Meridian 

 contains! in the collections of The Academy of Natural 



aces of Philadelphia 550 



Wade, Bru< e. New genera and species of Gastropoda from 



the Upper Cretaceous i Plates Will. X X 1 \ 155 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1916. 



January lis. 

 The President, Sami el <j. Dixon, M.l >.. LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persona presenl . 



The death of Daniel Giraud Elliot, a member, December 22, 1915, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee announced the presentation of papers 

 under tin- following i itles: 



Revision of Cayuga Lake spiders, " by Nathan Banks, December 

 2, 1915. 



"Studies in the Dermaptera and < >rthoptera <>i' the < loastal Plains 

 and Piedmonl Region of the southeastern United States," by James 

 A. < i. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, January 17. 



Fossil bird by Dr. R. \Y. Shufeldt, January 18. 



Prof. William P. Magie and Daniel Moreai Barrinoer made 

 communications on the Meteor Craterof Arizona, illustrated by 

 lantern slides. No absl ra 



The following were elected members: 

 \\ iltei Sonni '■■ 

 William S. Huntington. 

 Samuel I . Bodine. 

 David Wilbur Horn, Ph.D. 



The following wan ordered t<> !«• printed: 




pro< EEDiNoa <>i the \< \m \n of [Jan., 



THE SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS MURIS. 

 HV llo\\ URD I B WYl.KI . 



A number of years ago, at the University of Pennsylvania, an 

 investigation of the early stages of the evolution of Sarcocystis nvuris 



in the intestinal cells «>t" the mouse was undertaken. This investiga- 

 tion was interrupted for several year-. bu1 was resumed at the 

 laboratory of the Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal 

 [ndustry, Washington, D. ('.. and the first definite results obtained 

 were outlined in a preliminary note published in l'.U 1 (< Jrawley, 1914). 



In this note it was shown that following ingestion of the so-called 

 -pure- «>f tin- parasite, penetration of the intestinal cell- of the mouse 

 was effected within aboul two hour-. Once within the cells the 

 spores rapidly underwent profound changes and after the lapse of 

 aboul nine hours they had separated into two categories, which were 

 interpreted to represenl male- and females. In the case of the 

 supposed male-, development took the form of a loss of most if not 

 all of the cytoplasm, so that the parasite became reduced to a nucleus, 

 which, however, wa- of considerably Larger size than that of the 

 original spore. Later, the chromatin of this nucleus became col- 

 lected itito a number of -mall rounded masses placed at the periphery. 

 These masses, at fir-t granular, later became solid and eventually 

 transformed themselves into elongated, thread-like bodies, which 

 were interpreted to he microgametes. This evolution was completed 

 • the end of is hour-. 



Meanwhile others of the original spores went through a wholly 



differenl course Of development, which wa- not at the time considered 

 in detail. It wa- evident, however, that these elements retained 

 their cytoplasm and eventually transformed themselves into oval 

 cell-, with rather dense cytoplasm and a vesicular nucleus containing 

 a large karyosome. These, which were interpreted to be females, 

 al-o reached the end of their development within 18 hour-. 



Finally, appearances suggesting fertilization were noted. 



At the time when this preliminary not ice was prepared, my material 

 for the later stages, from 12 to L8 horn-, was abundant and the 

 conclusions a- published were based on the findings in a number of 

 mice ( > 1 1 the other hand, for the early stages only three mice were 




1916.] NATURAL SCTEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



available, these representing, respectively, the 2 to 2] hour, the 

 3 to Sh hour, and the '■'> and (> hour stages, the last being a mouse 

 given two infecting feeds between which was an interval of 3 hours. 

 and killed 3 hour- after the second meal. It was therefore con- 

 sidered desirable to obtain more material for these earlier stages, 

 and the results to be set forth herein are based upon the examination 

 of a number of mice killed at periods of from one hour onward. 



Material and Methods. 



A li-t of the mice used, with appropriate explanatory matter, is 

 placed at the end of the present section. During the entire course 

 <>!' the studies on sarcosporidiosis, every mouse obtained in whatsoever 

 manner was given a [lumber. In many cases these were trapped 

 gray mice, <>r else white mice which had never been inoculated. 

 Hence those used for the microscopical study of the evolution of the 

 parasites in the cells represent but a portion of the entire series. 

 It ha- been considered better, however, to retain the numbers origin- 

 ally given, since no confusion can possibly arise from such a procedure. 



In the li-t appended 'he time in hour- elapsing between the infect- 

 ing meal and the death of the mouse has been placed immediately 



aftei the number of the mouse, since this is the most important 

 datum. After this the fixing fluid is noted, and finally ;i statement 

 with reference to the quantity of infectious material which the 

 mouse ate is appended. The omission of these data in a number 



of cases indicate- a failun to keep the record complete. 



The li-t a- given include- 38 mice, and the conclusions a- se1 forth 

 herein are thu- based on thi- number of experimental animal-. It 

 i- desired to lay emphasis on thi- point on account of the possibility 

 of confusion with other intestinal Protozoa, 3uch :i- < loccidia. 



Erdmann (1914 endeavored to obtain mice in which the possi- 

 bility of extraneous infection was excluded. The procedure was to 

 raise mice from birth under a- sterile condition- a- possible. Tin-. 



of course, LS 'he ideal method, but. a- ladinaiin -tale-, it i- tedious 

 ami difficult. The other method is to u-e a large Series Of mice. 



which will presumably yield results that cannot be questioned. 

 Thus, if. after feeding, parasites are found in the cells which are 

 evidently Sarcocystia -pore- and if. a- time passes, these intracellular 

 element- undergo serial changes it would seem to be hypercritical 

 to question their identity a- stages in the evolution of Si 

 /nun's. For it would be Decessarj to assume that each experimental 

 mouse harbored Coccidia in addition to the Sarcosporidia and thai 




1 pRi ii ii i.i\. - • 'i i in if \i>i.\n of [Jan., 



in i -arli and every case the ( loccidia happened to be in precisely such 

 a stage as to rest ruble the Sarcosporidia. The mathematical proba- 

 bility of this taking place diminishes with the number of mice used 

 and when this number is large becomes a vanishing quantity. 



since protozoan infections naturally tend to assume the 

 ■utie form, it' one or two mice from a given cage were found to be 

 infected with Coccidia, the surmise would be warranted thai many 

 or all of the others were so infected. Hut in the case of the series 

 upon which the present studies wen' based, the mice were obtained 

 from various sources and from various places and in many cases had 

 never been in contact. It is therefore believed thai the results as 

 stated are valid, so far as concern- the possibility of confusion with 

 ( "occidia. 



The mice -elected for inoculation were deprived of food for 24 

 hour-. This served a two-fold purpose. It rendered them more 

 prone to ea1 the infectious material when given and it served to free 

 the intestine of half-digested vegetable food, the presence of which 

 interferes with sectioning. For the shorl periods, up to 18 hours 

 or so, the mice were given a piece of infected muscle of what was 

 regarded as an appropriate size. This was larger or smaller, according 

 to the number of cysts it contained: and when these were abundanl 

 the portion given had a weighl of the order of one-tenth of a mam. 



When the mouse is given it- infecting meal, any one of several 

 things may happen. Some mice positively refuse to touch the 

 meat while other- merely play with it for a time and then abandon 

 it. More usually, however, the mouse feed-, and the customary 

 method is for it to hold the food in its forepaws and nibble at it 

 until it i- all consumed. This procedure, however, may be inter- 

 rupted by delays, hut if the entire time required to finish the meal 

 i- -hort in comparison with thai to elapse between feeding and 

 death, the mouse may be used. Finally, in some cases the meal was 

 bolted in the manner in which a dog feeds. 



At the end of the proper period the mouse was chloroformed, 

 ted, and the alimentary canal removed. In nearly all cases it 

 was placed in the killing fluid entire, being neither cut into pieces 

 nor -lit open. The int. -tine of a mouse has such thin walls that the 

 fluid- have no difficulty in penetrating, and this procedure does away 

 with the rough handling necessary in slitting the intestine. It more- 

 over retained the intestinal content-, an obvious advantage, and a 

 comparison with -lit intestines showed thai the fixation was equally 

 accurate. The only disadvantage was that al times the penetration 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



of the fluids from the muscularis toward the epithelium resulted in 

 the latter being torn loose from the underlying connective tissue. 

 At least this phenomenon was not infrequently manifest and is 

 presumably to be credited to the direction of entrance of the fluids. 



Following fixation, each intestine was cut into pieces of a con- 

 venient length for embedding in paraffin. In general, the small 

 int. '-tin.' was cut into 25 to 30 pieces which were numbered, as a 

 rule, from the anterior to the posterior end. Thus, int. 1 of a given 

 mouse indicated the piece immediately following the stomach, the 

 highest <>r last number that piece immediately in front of the caecum. 

 Sometimes, however, this process w- - reversed, the last piece of the 

 intestine being designated as int. 1: the next to the last, int. 2 

 and so on, the negative signs serving to distinguish such cases from 

 the more usual procedure. This, as already aoted, is applicable to 

 the small intestine alone, the caecum and large intestine being given 

 other designations. The procedure as outlined above was not, 

 however, always followed. 



The fixing fluids used were: 



1. Hermann's fluid, stronger formula. 



2. Zenker's fluid. 



:;. Picro-acetic acid, made by reducing a saturated aqueous 

 solution «»t" picric arid t<> one-half strength with water, and adding 

 1 per cent, glacial acetic acid. 



I. An alcoholic-corrosive-acetic mixture, designated in the text 

 a- A. ( '. A. The formula for this i- a- follow-: 



Saturated aqueous solution of mercuric chloride 50 parts. 



Alcohol. «.t."i per cenl 50 parts. 



( ilacial acetic acid ."> parts. 



these, Hermann's fluid and the picro-acetic mixture, the latter 

 de~piie Lee's strictun 'he most delicate fixation. Zenker's 



fluid ia not to he recommended, since it leaves 'lie tissues in poor 



condition tor staining and i- at best a mediocre fixative. 



Tie v I \. fluid, while scarcely so accurate a- Hermann's fluid, 

 i- none the less a very good fixative. It i-. moreover, very con- 

 venient, since the tissues can he passed directly from it into alcohol, 

 and it leaves the material in excellent condition for staining 



The material was stained both in bulk and on the slide. While 

 there i- a prejudice against the former method for delicate cytological 

 work. Delafield's hematoxylin counterstained on the slide with 

 alcoholic .ip-iii or acid fuchsin dissolved in 95 per cent, alcohi 




6 pro< bedinos "i mi: u vdemi of [Jan., 



results nut far short of the besl slide staining. The use of counter- 

 stains in alcohol is :i ureal time-saving device, since the preparation 

 has bu1 tn be passed from xylol, to absolute alcohol, to 95 per cent. 

 alcohol, to the stain and back again to be ready for the < !anada bal- 

 sam. M over, if acid fuchsin be used, one quick dip in the stain is 

 sufficient. 



Fur slide staining, iron hsematoxylin, Wright's and Giemsa stains 

 and thionin were used either with or without counterstains. The 

 blood stains used alone are unsatisfactory, since only the blue ingre- 

 dients seem to take hold of the tissues. Wright's stain, counter- 

 stained with alcoholic eosin, however, gave very good results. The 

 technique was as follows: The slide holding the sections was first 

 treated as a blood smear and allowed to lie with the mixture of 

 -tain and water upon it tor Id to 1"> minute-. It was then washed 

 first in water and then in 95 per cent, alcohol until all of the pre- 

 cipitated -tain had dissolved. It was then stained with eosin dis- 

 solved in absolute alcohol, next passed into clean absolute alcohol, 

 and finally into xylol. Wright's stain come- out very rapidly in 

 alcohol, hut the whole procedure a- above outlined can be completed 

 in a very -hurt time. 



Thionin preparations counterstained in either alcoholic eosin or 

 acid fuchsin in alcohol weir largely used and »a\e in -ome respect - 

 the besl results. Preparations so stained display beautifully sharp 

 and clear-cut pictures, and they are very good when it is a question 

 of bringing out the chemical qualities of different parts of the para- 

 ►n the other hand, thionin fails to bring oul certain granules 

 in these Sarcosporidia which are perhaps significant, and slides 

 stained in thionin are nut permanent. 



Accordingly, most of the slides were stained with iron hematoxylin. 

 With material fixed in Hermann's fluid, a counterstain is not neces- 

 sary, although it wa- often used. With the other fixative- a 

 counterstain wa- necessary, and acid fuchsin wa- the one most 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. t 



L46 Hi hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



117 21 hours Hermann's fluid Modi rate meal. 



lis L8hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



H'.i 24hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



[50 24hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



L52 18 hours Hermann's fluid. 



l.",:; 24hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal. 



L5 \ 24 hours. 



L75 Yl\ hours Hermann's fluid. 



L76 13J hours Hermann's fluid. 



177 i i \ hours Hermann's fluid. 



17s 15| hours Hermann's fluid. 



17'.» lti|. hours Hermann's fluid. 



isii \~\ hours Hermann's fluid. 



181 L8£ hours Hermann's fluid. 



L82 18 hours Hermann's fluid. 



246 1 hour A. C. A Lighl meal. 



•J 17 1 hours A. C. A Heavy meal. 



248 2 hours A. ('.A Moderate meal. 



249 3 hours A. ('. A Moderate meal. 



•_'.■)() :. hours A. ('. A Heavy meal. 



251 i j hours A ( !. A Very lighl meal. 



252 2J hours AC. A Very light meal. 



253 6 hours \ C. A Heavy meal. 

 257 3 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



I hours A. C A Moderate meal. 



261 I hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal. 



262 .", hum- Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



Prior i<> taking up the description of the findings in the cells, it is 

 desirable to call attention to a phenomenon firsl signalized by Erd- 

 iii.-itin (1910). This is tin exfoliation of the intestinal epithelium 

 which appears to follow ingestion of the spores of Sarcocystis. The 

 natural inference would be thai this was due to the invasion and 

 subsequenl destruction of the cells by the parasites, and Buch was 

 my original idea (Crawley, 1913). No doubl :i certain amounf of 

 exfoliation is t<» I"- accounted for in this way, but other Factors are 

 involved. Thus Erdmann found thai the ingestion of an extrad ol 

 Sarcocystis cysts, from which tin- spores themselves had been removed, 

 was followed by exfoliation, and data thai I -hall now give -how 

 that the exfoliation takes place before any extensive invasion of the 



cell.. 



The intestines of a series of mice, all of which had been killed 

 within <i hour- after feeding, were examined and the conditions 

 presented by the epithelium in various part- of the intestine noted. 

 The results of this examination are tabulated below. Where no 

 lation was demonstrable, the condition i- indicated by the word 

 "none." Where, however, it i- in evidence it is designated 

 "slight," "moderate," or "severe," according to its deg 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ICADElfi OP [Jan. 



Moi -l 246, l-HOl R Si 



I Mt i ilial i • * 1 1 -lij:lit . 



Exfolial mil moderate, 

 olial ion none. 

 7 Exfoliation slighl ■ 



Exfoliation slight 

 1 1 Exfolial ion moderate. 



13 Exfolial ion severe. 



I.", Exfolial ion Bevere. 



17 olial ion Blighl 



l'» Exfolial ion nunc. 



2] Exfoliation severe. 



Exfoliation slight. 

 25 Exfolial ion none. 



Mm se 251, I '-Hui i; Stage. 



Int. i Exfoliation none. 



Exfolial i"ii none 

 7 Exfoliation none, 



g Exfoliation Done. 



Mm -t 2 18, 2-hoi i; Stage. 



I,,t Exfoliation >lij:lit . 



x Exfolial ion none, 



Exfoliation none 

 l.", Exfoliation slight. 



_M Exfoliation slight. 



Exfoliation none 



27 I rfolial ion none. 



28 Exfolial ion none. 



Exfoliation very -liiilii . 

 Exfoliation very Blighl . 



Moi -i. 249, 3-HOi i: Stage. 



Iin j Exfoliation moderate 



r. Exfolial inn nunc 



v Exfoliation none. 



in Exfolial ion none. 



1_» Exfoliation nunc 



17 Exfolial inn moderate 



is Exfoliation slight. 



i'i Exfoliation Blighl . 



Exfoliation very .-li^lit. 

 Exfoliation none. 

 _' \ Exfoliation nunc. 



Exfoliation Blight. 

 Exfolial ion none. 

 :;i Exfoliation none. 



Moi -' 261 . 1-noiu Stage. 



-1 Exfolial ion none. 



— :', iliation Blight. 



Exfoliation slight. 



Mot BE 2 t7. l-iioi i: Si \'i 

 Int. 12 ! Ixfoliation none. 



1 1 I Ixfoliation none. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Hi Exfoliation slight. 



Is Exfoliation slight. 



19 Exfoliation slight. 



30 Exfoliation slight. 



:; 1 Exfoliation very slight . 



Moi si 262, 5 to 3-houb Stage. 



Im. _ 1 Exfolial ion none. 



—2 Exfoliation slighl . 



Exfoliation slight. 

 _ j • Exfoliation sevi re. 



— ;, Exfoliation moderate. 



_ti Exfoliation mod* rate. 



Moi be 250, 5-HOi r Stage. 



lnt . _M ' Exfoliation none. 



S2 Exfolial i'»n Done. 



30 Exfoliation moderate. 



:;i Exfohal ion moderate. 



Exfoliation slight. 



Exfoliation mod< rate. 



Moi -i. 253, 6-hoi R m \'.i- 



Ini. 10 Exfoliation Blight. 



1.", Exfoliation slighl . 



Id Exfolial ion none. 



pi Exfoliation Questionable. 



Exfoliation slighl , 



27 ■ dial ion none 



28 I folial ion none. 



Exfoliation noi 



As already stated, as a resull of the method of fixing the mouse 

 intestine, the epithelial row was at times torn loose from the sub- 

 epithelial connective tissue. It thus results thai in some cases the 

 materia] presented a decidedly battered appearance. While, how- 

 ever, the epithelial row itself migb.1 thus be torn loose and mor< or 

 less broken, the individual cells uric not thereby injured and their 

 appearance indicated an accurate fixation. 



< »n the other hand, it was frequently possible to see thai the cells 

 al the tips of the villi were abnormal, this abnormality expressing 

 itself in :i loss of staining capacity on the part of the cytoplasm and 

 an obvious degeneracy of the nuclei. This degeneracy, a1 firsl 

 rting only the cells al the tips of the villi, passes into a condition 

 in which these cells have disappeared, while those lying along the 

 sides of the villi are affected. This condition, in it- turn, passes 

 into one in which the villi arc represented merely by stumps oi 

 connective tissue, the epithelium being present only in the regions 

 between the bases of the villi. Finally a stage is reached in which 

 the intestine is wholly denuded of epithelium. In the list* given 




in pro< i i DINQ8 OF i in \' \i" M 1 " OF [Jan.. 



the iitui "slight " defines those conditions in which epithelial degen- 

 eration i- just beginning to be manifest, and "moderate" conditions 

 where the tips of the villi are seriousl) affected, and "severe" con- 

 ditions where the destructive influence has gone further. 



The data given in the above lists seem to establish the facl thai 

 ation of the epithelium is correlated with ingestion of the 

 spores of Sarcosporidia, but they are no1 consistenl amongst them- 

 selves. Thus, mouse 248, a 2-hour stage, is ao1 so badly affected 

 as mouse 246, killed only one hour alter feeding, whereas mouse 251, 

 a 1 j-hour stage, -how- do exfoliation at all, although in this lasl caa 

 rvations were confined to only a small pari of the intestine. 



In the cases of Nos. 249 and 261, both 3-hour stag< s, and No. 247, 

 1-hour, exfoliation is qo1 extensive, while No. 262, 5- to 3-hour, 

 -how- a considerable amounl near the posterior end of the intestine, 

 as doe- also No. 250, 5-hour. On the other hand, mouse 253, killed 

 6 hour- after feeding, is bu1 slightly affected. In view of the rather 

 contradictory nature of the data, it is impossible to attempt any 

 explanation of the modus operandi of loss of the epithelium. 



Krdmanii suggested that the destruction of the epithelium was an 

 adaptation having for it- purpose the easier penetration of the 

 spores into the tissues of the mouse. Presumably this destruction 

 i- correlated with ingestion of the parasites, bu1 if it be of any value 

 to hosl or parasite it seems more plausible to regard it a- a defensive 

 move «.n the part "f the former. In their attack upon the mouse 

 the parasites fir-t invade the epithelial cells and this they do within 

 the first two or three hour-. Obviously; then, the destruction of 

 this epithelium, either before or after penetration by the parasites 

 can only work to their disadvantage. Hence, while it is possible 

 to look upon this exfoliation as an adaptation on the part of the 

 host, there seems no good reason for so doing. It is a matter of 

 observation that exfoliation follow- the ingestion of sarcosporidian 

 cysts, but it i- also a matter of observation that such ingestion is 

 practically always followed by infection of the muscles. Hence, 



the exfoliation i- Obviously Q01 protective. 



The matter i-. however, one of minor importance and the data 



are merely given for what they are worth. 



EVOL1 ["ION OF THE PARASITES l\ THE CELLS. 



The account of the findings in the cell- may appropriately be 



. in with mouse '_M»i. killed one hour after feeding. As indicated 

 in the table on p. 8, slides were prepared from the alternate pii 




1916.] NATURAL SCIEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



of the intestine from one end to the other. The anterior portions, 

 Nbs. 1 to 11. were wholly negative, there being no spores either in 

 the lumen or in the cell-. Beginning with int. 13, however, spores 

 weir presenl in the lumen, and they weir seen in the cells in int. 

 19, 23, and '2'). Their absence from int. 2] i- to be credited to the 

 severe exfoliation there present. 



From im. 13, where the spores weir first seen in the lumen, then 

 was a rapid increase in their numbers in each successive piece, and 

 in the lumina of im. 23 and 25 they were presenl in enormous numbers. 

 From this it i< evideni thai it requires but one hour for the ingested 

 spores to reach the extreme posterior end of the -mall intestine, and 

 as shown both by this and other mire, apparently the greal majority 

 of them reach this situation very quickly. While they have also 

 been found in the caecum in very early stages, they evidently do not 

 - from the small intestine into the caecum a- readily a- they 

 pass along the -mall intestine itself. This is evidenced by the facl 

 that in the earlier stages up to <) hour- or thereabouts the la-t 

 two or three centimeters of the -mall intestine always harbor spores 

 free in the lumen. 



Then- i- thus broughl aboul a 3tat< of affair- of some interest 

 when the earlier stages of the evolution of the parasites is under 

 consideration. It i- evident that the spores pass along the -mall 

 intestine very rapidly until the posterior end i- reached. The 

 length of time required for this stream of 3pores to pa-- a given point 

 will obviously vary in the different mice. In those cases when-. ; ,- 



u!t of prolonged nibbling, the ingested meat reaches the stomach 

 thoroughly comminuted, we may presume that it- stay in the stomach 

 i- shortened and it- movement along the -mall intestine more rapid. 

 On the other hand, when the meal is swallowed in large pieces, the 



imption i- that it will remain in the stomach until it i- softened 

 and disintegrated, and in consequence it- progress along the -mall 

 intestine will he delayed. Nevertheless, digestion in mice of purely 

 animal matter i- rapid, and in general at the end of a few hour- sp< 



scarce in tin- lumen of i he upper and middle portions of the 

 -mall intestim I is a pure guess, we maj assume that the stream 

 oi spores requires on.- hour to pass a given point, thru the spores 

 within the cells in any particular part of tin intestine (except tin 

 posterior end) will all have entered the cells within an hour of one 

 another. < >n the other hand, a- we have seen, great numbers <»i the 

 Bpores reach tin- posterior part of the intestine within our hour, and 

 remain there for several hour-, n- i- mown bj finding them in tin- 




L2 proceedings oi phe \> \m.\i\ of [Jan., 



situation in 9-hour stages. During the whole of this time it cannot 

 Im> questioned thai individuals are constantly penetrating the cells. 



Therefore it seems reasonable to assume thai within certain limits. 

 the intracellular spores in a given section of the upper or middle 

 parts of the intestine will be in somewhal the same developmental 

 On the contrary, in the posterior pari of the intestine, the 

 intracellular spores will represenl a series in the development, covering 

 the greater part »>t' the period of time elapsing between feeding and 

 the death <>t' the mouse. Thus, in a 9-hour mouse, the parasites in 

 the eells f this extreme posterior part of the intestine migh1 represenl 

 form- which had been in the cells from only a few minutes up to 

 seven or eight hours, and in Nos. 132 and 133 it was evident thai 

 this was the case. 



It further follows that in these posterior portions many more cells 

 are parasitized than elsewhere, since there is here maintained for 

 several hour- a targe supply of extracellular spores. 



Returning to the condition- as found in mouse 246, intracellular 

 -pop,- in small numbers were found in int. 19, 23, and 25. These, 

 of course, represented the very earliesl stages in the development 

 and in the main were not to be distinguished from those in the 

 lumen. In some cases, however, development had begun, thus 

 demonstrating the extreme rapidity with which these parasites go 

 through with their evolution. The mounted material of this mouse, 

 however, was prepared with a view of getting a general survey of 

 the condition- rather than for detailed cytological study. Hence, 

 no figures of the parasites a- found here have been made. 



Moua .'■'>!. Mouse 251 was killed 11 hours after feeding. 

 According to the observations made at the time of the infecting 

 : it receive.! "a very light meal." bul when the stomach and 

 intestine were prepared for study the findings suggested that whereas 

 relatively the meal may have been very light, positively such a 

 definition seemed scarcely appropriate. In the stomach, from 

 which the epithelium had largely disappeared, there were abundant 

 cysts of the parasite, many of which were more or less intact and 

 contained the greater number of 'he spores. In int. 1, \\. 5. and 7 

 there were abundant spores in the lumen, and in int. <) they were 

 nt both in the lumen and in t he cells. 



Comparing the conditions found here with those in mouse 246, 



it is to be note.) that in the latter the 3pores were further hack toward 



the end of the intestine. In No. 246 the upper portion- of the 



-tine were free ot spores, whereas in 25] these same portion- 




1916. N All RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPI11 \. L3 



contained them in considerable abundance. These differences are. 

 as already -uuiie-ted. probably to be accredited to differences in the 

 manner in which the two mice fed. 



Taking up now the evolution of the spores within the intestine of 

 the mouse, we may advantageously use as a point of departure the 

 spore as it occurs free in the lumen, for it is evidenl that developmenl 

 begins here. 



Plate I, fig. 2, portrays such a -pore and may be taken as the 

 point nt' departure, although in all the early stages the spores in the 

 lumen are identical with many of those in the cells. This particular 

 case i- from mouse 248, a 2-hour stage, but it is valid for any of the 

 early stag 



The characteristics of this stage are as follows: The contours of 

 the cell are -harp and clear cut, and there is a distinct bounding line 

 or periplast. The cytoplasm, while obviously alveolar, is dense and 

 ordinarily stains well. Granules may or may not be present. The 

 aucleus, which i- conspicuous, is round and gives the appearance as 

 though in life it were turgid with nuclear sap. There is a distincl 

 nuclear membrane and a more or less distincl nuclear ne1 is always 

 present. 



With regard t « • it - shape, t he spore in the lumen maj be ;i smooth 

 oval, as, i'ii" example-, are tin intracellular spores shown in Plate I. 

 figs. '■> and I. or it may have the sides more or less bulged oul in the 

 region of the nucleus. This latter phenomenon is due to the incn 

 in size of the nucleus, a process initiated very shortly after the spore 

 reaches the alimentary canal of the mouse. 



The appearance of the spores in the intestine, whether they be 

 in the lumen or in the cells, offers a considerable cbntrasl to thai of 

 spores removed from the cysts. With regard t" these latter, a 

 ription i- herewith given, although they :w- familiar objects 

 in the literature ami have been described and figured n numb 

 times. 



Such -pore- an' shown in Plate I. fit:. I. \s i- here indicated, one 

 end df the -pure i- I ,ii >ad< t. the other end narrower, and the nucleus 



lie- nearer the narrow end. 



The internal structure is obscure. The nucleus is m clear-cut 

 vesicle, and to all appearances is provided with ;i definitive mem 

 brane. No internal structure can he made out. ami the staining 

 reaction is feeble. In Giemsa preparations it stains a pah' reddish 



color. 



cytoplasm with < liemsa stains :i dense blue. It- structur 




1 J rif"> i i DINOS "i i in \' IDEM! "i [Jan.. 



scarcely be determined, bu1 it may be inferred thai it is alveolar. 

 It is densesl in the immediate vicinitj of the nucleus. The broad 

 end of tlie spore is frequently much less dense than elsewhere and 

 at times -how- a more or less well defined oval area. This appear- 

 ance, however, i- probably due merely to the fad thai here the 



ilasm has a lower affinity for the stain than elsewhere. 

 The same phenomenon is shown by the spores of Sarcocystis 



■ •■■ Crawley, 191 l , In the case of the rabbil parasite, a- 1 

 have endeavored t<> show, one end of the spore seems t<> be differen- 



1 into a sorl of rostrum, the cytoplasm of which doe- not -tain 



a- densely :i- doe- that of the halance of the spore. We are prohahk 



dealing with the same thing in the case of Sarcocystis maris, hut in 

 this parasite the differentiation of the rostrum is not bo sharp. It 

 may furthermore he suggested that it i- this clearer region in the 

 e which ha- given rise to the belief, expressed by some author-. 

 that the sarcosporidian -pore possess) ~ a polar capsule. 



• Comparing the spores taken directly from a cyst with those in the 

 intestine, the latter are broader, more oval bodies, and, although 

 this i- not shown by the figures, there ha- been a loss of the granules 

 which are such a characteristic feature of the former. The most 

 noteworthy change, however, concerns the nucleus, which has 

 _• r. apparently much more turgid, and begins to show a 

 nuclear net. 



It i- thus evident that evolution begins :i- soon ;i- tic- -pore reaches 



atestine of the mouse, and apparently the most important step 



greal increase in activity of the nucleus. This evolution, however. 



- not appear to he carried far mile-.- the spore £iain> a resting place 



within a cell of the host. 



The cells invaded are the cylinder cells. At least this is so in the 



vast majority of cases. Now and then, however, parasites are to In' 



I in mucous cell-, hut since the presence of a parasite in a cell 



may result in mucoid degeneration, it i- difficull to diagnose such 



inces. The parasite may have invaded a mucous cell or it may 



have caused mucoid degeneration of a cylinder cell. This question, 



appear- to he of no greal importance. 



It i- also well to emphasize the point that the -pore is a naked 



protoplasm and that the only differentiation displayed by 



the cytoplasm i- the peripheral condensation into a periplastic layer. 



: ,t- to the effect that the -pore open- and releases an amcebula 



wholly without warrant, and polar filament-, either coiled up 



within one end of the cell or discharged, do not exist. Claims of 




1916.] NATURAL B< IKN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



this sort, which have appeared in the literature from nmc to time, 

 seem to be due to an unfortunate desire to correlate the Sarcospo- 

 ridia with the Myxosporidia. These two groups may of course be 

 closely related, but as ye1 there is no conclusive evidence on hand 

 to show T ha1 they are. 



Plate I. figs. 3 and 1 -how spores in the cells of int. 9 of mouse 251 . 

 a 1 '-'■ »ur stage. It is to I"- noted thai each of these lies in a vacuole. 

 Pi ably they have not been in the cells for more than an hour. 

 In both of them the cytoplasm is dense, compact, and deeply staining. 

 In both of them, also, the nucleus has enlarged and is separated from 

 the periplast only by very narrow strips of cytoplasm. 



There is, however, a difference in the nature of the net in these 



two nuclei. Iu the case of fig. •'». the meshes in the centre are solidly 



filled with chromatin, whereas in that of fig. I the chromatin is divided 



separate masses. In all of these early stages the chromatin has 



a low affinity for -tain-, and, following the rule which seems to hold 



rally true in Protozoa, takes the acid rather than the basic 



-tain-. < >n this account it re-ults that these nuclei are rather difficult 

 microscopical objects, and seen with power- of less than 1,000 diame- 

 ters, a nucleus like that of fig. 3 look- like a vesicle containing only a 

 central granule. But with a magnification of 1,500 to 2,000, and an 

 intense artificial light, the -tincture a- shown in the figure is brought 

 out. A- will l»e -hown later, fit:. 3 represents the more primitive 

 condition, in which the chromatin i- concentrated into a single ma — . 

 within which, however, the meshes of the nuclear net can he traced. 

 In the ca-e nf fig. i. the chromatin occur- in separate masses and the 

 centra] meshes of the net are largely clear. Nuclei precisely like 

 either of these may be seen in -pore- in the lumen. 



M Mouse 248 was killed two hour- after feeding. It- 



intestine was cut into 32 pieces, int. 32 representing the extreme 

 posterior portion. Observations were made on int. :;. 9, 15, 21, 27, 

 and 32. In the upper portion- there were scattered -pore- m tin' 

 lumen and occasional specimens in the cell.-, hut. following the 

 ral rule, parasitization \\.i- not extensive until the more posterior 



■ached. 



I'lat-- I fig. 5, from int. 27, shows a parasite lying in the usual vacuole 



• to th< 'lie epithelium. The cytoplasm i- dense, 



while the nucleus -how- very distinctly a nuclear net supporting 



; chromatin granules. The uucleus, in thi lies near 



one end ol 'he cell. I _ •. from int. :;it, also represent* what i- 



clearlj :i verj earl) The cytoplasm is dense and compact, 




16 PBO< i BDDfOfl < i \< m»i Ml of [Jan.j 



the cell contours are sharp and a periplasl can be seen. The aucleus, 

 however, shows merely as ;i Faintlj stained vacuole containing some 

 formed substance, the details of which could no1 be made out. It 

 may here be remarked thai in mosl of the cell parasites the nucleus 

 appears as a vesicle containing a nuclear net, and thai in general 

 nuclear nel is the only pari of the nucleus thai stains. Hence 

 tiif nit appears as though projected againsl a clear background. 

 < >n the other hand, it is frequently to be observed in the spores free 

 in the lumen, and much less frequently in those in the cells, thai the 



nuclear Bap as well as the nuclear net has taken the stain, thus 

 obscuring the details of the latter. This condition is illustrated by 



fig. ... 



In the preliminary note it was stated that at leasl a portion of the 



intracellular -pun- rapidly underwent a change which expressed 

 itself in a reduction of the cytoplasm and an increase in the size of 

 the nucleus, the ultimate resull of which was the production of a 



body which was apparently only the enlarged original nucleus, the 

 cytoplasm having apparently all disappeared. This, it was stated, 

 was interpreted to he the male form. 



This evolution is illustrated in Plate I, figs. 7 to 1 1 . Fig. 7 shows the 

 nuclear enlargemenl with no urea t amount of cytoplasmic reduction. 



The nuclei;- is large and turgid, it causes the sides of the parasite to 

 bulge and -how- a- distincl net . Tin- net consists of a cent ral aggre- 

 gation from which strands run to the periphery. As already indicated 

 in the discussion of figs. :; and I, whereas the appearance of this 

 central aggregation differ- considerably in the different specimens, 

 it- structure appears to he fundamentally the same throughout. It 

 seems to he merely the close-meshed central pari of the nuclear net, 

 with the inter-pace- sometimes empty and sometimes filled in with 

 faintly staining chromatin. The latter is the more primitive 

 condition. 



The parasite shown in fig. 7 was from int. 15, or about the middle 

 of the intestine, and hence is presumably that of a parasite which 

 ha- been within the cell for some little time. Except, however, for 

 the notable enlargemenl of the nucleus, it has all the characteristics 

 very early -t 

 8, from int. 30, represents a condition in which there has been 

 a- yet no greal amount ot nuclear enlargement, hut a slighl degree of 

 cytoplasmic degeneration. In fig. !> there i- shown nuclear enlarge- 

 ment accompanied by a considerable degree of cytoplasmic degenera- 

 tion, a- is evidenced \,y the vacuolization and rough contour- of the 




1916. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



cell. In fig. 10 the nucleus projects out from the side- of the cell, 

 while the cytoplasm is reduced and shows uneven contours. In 

 fig. 11 there is seen both nuclear enlargemenl and cytoplasmic 

 reduction. 



The initial steps in the evolution "!' the male element arc illustrated 

 by the figures just described. The detail- of this evolution vary 

 greatly, and it i- doubtless true that this variation in detail is the 

 result not only of variations in the actual biological process it-elf. 

 but i- also dependent on the technique. Thus, in iron hematoxylin 

 preparations there are always associated with the nucleus one or more 

 intensely black granules which are either not visible at all or only 

 faintly visible in Delafield or thionin preparations. Furthermore, 

 in materia] stained in thionin the cytoplasm i- frequently seen to be 

 irated into two portions, as shown in Plate I. figs. L2, 13, and 1 1. 

 II. re the cytoplasm is broken up into a number of lumps or streaks 

 either lying embedded in a faintly staining ground substance figs. 12 

 and 1 1 1 or apparently lying free in the vacuole which the parasite always 

 produces in the mouse cell (fig. L3). It is evident that our of these 

 conditions is readily derivable from the other. Thus, in figs. L2 and 

 14, the cytoplasm has separated into a chromophil substance lying 

 within an almosl achromatic substance. This latter gradually 

 disappears, producing the condition shown in fig. 13. 



A high affinity for chromatin stains is characteristic of the by- 

 products of protoplasm, and is especially well broughl out by thionin. 

 Thus, in material so stained, both degenerate nuclei and mucus an 

 deeply stained. In the former case we are dealing with a patho- 

 logical, in the latter with a physiological process, bu1 in both with 

 protoplasmic by-products. In thi Sarcosporidia, the 



e in the size of tin- nucleus seems to predicate :i supply 

 pabulum, and tic suggestion i- at least permissible thai this 

 pabulum i- supplied by the cytoplasm. If thi- were so, the presump- 

 tion would he that the dense!} staining flecks, as noted in figs. 12, 

 13, uid 14, represent tin- cytoplasmic debris remaining after the 

 nucleus has robbed the cytoplasm of a part of it- substance. It is 

 of course t.. I..- understood that the above i- put forth merelj ae a 

 possibility, the matter being one scarcely open to a rigid demon- 

 stration. 



\ noted in the li-t given on p. r». tin- mouse repre- 

 sents the conditions from _' to _". hours after feeding. These are in 

 :ill essentials the same .-■- those of mouse 248, i i- i videnced bj figs. 

 l.'i. 16, and 17. In the ,■■, g 17, Plate II. it i- t«> be noted that 




is pBO< ii DINQ8 "i 1 1 1 1 : \< IDEM! OF [.Ian., 



the cytoplasm is greatl) reduced in quantity and is vacuolated, while 



in ail three the nucleus i- enlarged and -how- the usual nuclear net. 

 Thifl animal wa- killed three hours after feeding. Its 

 intestine wa- (ait into si pieces numbered from I to 31. Observa- 

 - were made upon the stomach and upon int. 2, ti. s, io, 12, is, 

 20, 22, 30, and 31. The stomach and the firsl five pieces of the 

 intestine examined were negative. In int. is spores were presenl 

 in the lumen; in int. 20, 22, so. and .SI they were found both in the 

 lumen and in the cell-. 



It ha- already been shown p. II) I hat in some of the mice (he 



spores move along the intestine very rapidly, ye1 it is always to be 

 remembered that the failure to find them in a few selected slide- is 

 not proof of their absence from the particular portions of the intestine 

 from which these slides were made. In this mouse it seems unlikely 

 that 80 much of the iltte-titie wa- actually negative. 



It i- in mouse 249 that the differentiation into males and females 

 first begins to be noticeable. In the case of the males, in which the 

 characteristic changes consist of a great enlargement of the nucleus 



and a reduction of the cytoplasm, there is no confusion, since these 



changes are conspicuous and readily detected. 



Thus, Plate [I, figs. 18, 19, and 20 are all obviously males, since they all 

 -how nuclear enlargement and cytoplasmic reduction. A particularly 



: earmark of the male- is the fact that the nucleus is not sur- 

 rounded by cytoplasm, t he parasites consisting (fig. 18) of an enlarged 

 nucleus provided with two tongue- or cap-shaped masses of cyto- 

 pla -m. Tin' conspicuous black granule, mentioned above as 

 appearing in iron hematoxylin -tain-, is to he seen in fig. 20, whereas 

 I'm. 1'.' -how- a stage wherein the cytoplasm is nearly gone and the 

 nucleus ha- reached a size equal to that of many of the entire para- 

 sites. 



On the other hand, the differences between the female and the 

 original spore are by no mean- so striking. The female is relatively 

 shorter and broader, while the nucleus is sometimes larger and, 

 -now- the chromatin concentrated into a single large 

 karyosome. There is, however, no loss of cytoplasm. Moreover, 

 with an exception to l>e noted below, the female undergoes no such 

 conspicuous changes in the c6urse of its evolution as doe- the male. 

 In consequence, in these earlj stages it i- always difficult and some- 

 times impossible to say whether a given parasite is a female or merely 

 one which ha- been in the cell ;i shorl time. 



is only with much reserve that fig. 21 . Plate II, may be pro- 




1916. ]■ NATURAL s< n:v BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



nounced that of a female. It possesses, however, the rather densely 

 staining cytoplasm characteristic for the females and the nucleus is 

 too small for a male. The deeply staining granules present in iroD 

 hematoxylin material arc here in evidence. 



Fig. 22 probably also represents a female since it is a smoothly 

 oval cell with dense cytoplasm, and the nucleus, while large, does 

 not cause any protrusion of the sides of the cell. The radiate nuclear 

 structure in this parasite is peculiar for such an early stage, and may 

 represent a very precocious case of maturation (see p. 30 . 



Minis, 126. This mouse was given the flesh of an infected animal 

 at a stated time and required one-half an hour to complete it- meal. 

 It was killed three hours later and in consequence represents the 

 condition- 3 to 3| hour- after inoculation. Pigs. 23 and 24, Plate 11. 

 are from this mouse and show early male stages, as evidenced by the 

 enlarged nuclei and the scanty quantity of cytoplasm present. 



Movst /'//. Mouse 261 was given a piece of infected muscle at 

 K) A.M. (Feb. 15, 1915 . It began to ea1 at once and consumed a 

 considerable quantity of the infected material, l>ut did not thru 

 complete the meal. At _' P.M. the mouse was chloroformed, the 

 infected muscle having been eaten in the interim. Hence, it repre- 

 sents the conditions from \ hours down to some shorter period. The 

 only portion- of the intestine < cammed in this case were int. l to 

 im. ."». or the lasl five pieces. The intestine of this mouse was -lit 



open prior to fixation and in consequence the spores in the lumen 



Were lost • 



Since the stud} here was confined to the Last few centimeters oi 

 the intestine, a given intracellular spore might have Keen in it- place 

 anywhere from a few minutes to three hour- or more, and hence it 

 i- impossible to pick out the early female stages with any degri 

 certainty. Tim-, fig. 25 might be either that of an early female 

 - of a parasite which had been in the cell for onlj a short time. 

 It i- perhaps the Bame with fig. 26 which represents a form difficult 

 to classify satisfactorily. < >n the other hand. fig. 27 is an evident 

 early male, and both this and fig. 26 are of interesl in showing verj 

 clearly the nuclear structure. 



In a few cases, iii mouse 261, males were found in which the loss 

 of cytoplasm was compli 



Uf< This mouse was killed four hour- after feeding. It- 



intestine was cut into "-I pieces, fr int. I to 34, and observations 



were made on int. 12, I l. 16, 19, ;<> and 



The differentiation into males and females i- here carried a little 




20 PRi ii I EDING8 l 'i 1 1:1 \< \m.mi l >\ [.Ian., 



further, although ii is -till difficult t" gel forms thai fan positively 

 be diagnosed a- females. 



\i; evidenl female, however, i- -hown in fig. "is, Plate 1 1. Thisistaken 

 to be a female on account of it- shape, its retention of the cytoplasm, 

 and the character of it- nucleus. This latter element, as is shown 

 by the figure, is vesicular, with a sharply defined nuclear membrane 

 and ;i central mass of chromatin from which strands radiate to the 

 periphery. Pig. 29 shows another female. This figure is diagram- 

 matic, 1 mt is essentially like fig. 28. Both of these figures were 

 obtained from int. 11 of the mouse: that is, from the anterior half 

 oi the intestine, and hence the presumption is that both of the 

 parasites drawn bad been in the cells for some considerable time. 



Fig. ."><>. from int. 19, may also be that of a female, although here 

 the diagnosis is more doubtful, since the form rather suggests a 

 parasite which has been in the cell for only a shorl time. 



In addition to the females, characteristic early males were seen 

 in the cells of this mouse. 



Moust 250. This mouse was killed five hours after feeding. Its 

 intestine was cu1 into 34 piece-, numhered from 1 to 34, and observa- 

 tion- were made on int. 21, 22, and 32. 



In this mouse it i- much easier to distinguish between the males 

 and females, since the two lines of development have become well 

 separated. Thus, figs. 'M and 32, Plate II, represent males which have 

 reached what might be termed the nuclear stage; that is, the stage 

 in which the cytoplasm has nearly or quite disappeared. 



rhus, in fig. 31, the cytoplasm has all disappeared except for a 

 ■; degenerate-looking material at one end of the nucleus. The 

 nucleus it-elf -how- the usual net. associated with which are several 

 black granules. Centrally *there is an irregular mass of acidophil 

 chromatin in which lies a large black granule. This probably 

 represents the karyosome. 



Fie _ , represents a male. There is here to be seen a well- 

 defined net of rather broad strands and a number of black granules. 

 The meshes of the net are in some places filled with faintly staining 

 material. A karyosome doe- not appear to be present, although the 

 black granule may perhaps represent it. The crescent of 

 staining substance at one end of the nucleus may represenl the 

 remnant of the spore cytoplasm, but more probably is a crescent of 

 host tissue which not infrequently form- at the end of the vacuole 

 in which the parasite normally lies. It- actual detachment from the 

 parasite - .- H is the latter, and if this be so the cytoplasm of 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



the parasite has wholly disappeared and the vacuole in which the 

 nucleus lies is the vacuole originally formed by the parasite. 



Fig. 33, Plate II, represents a parasite from the same slide and same 

 section of the intestine as figs. 31 and 32. It is clearly a female. The 

 entire parasite is sharply outlined, and the cytoplasm is dense, 

 although showing several vacuoles. The nucleus is clear cu1 and 

 contain- a large, rather faintly staining karyosome, together with 

 two black granules. < toe of these granules lies within the karyosome, 

 the other appear- to be in the -pace between the karyosome and 

 membrane, bu1 it is possible thai it actually lay upon the membrane 

 itself. In this particular case, strands connecting the karyosome 

 with the nuclear membrane could not be detected. 



Fig. ">l was also obtained from the same slide as figs. 31, 32, and 

 •u1 not from the same section. The parasite was clearly outlined. 

 Tin cytoplasm, while not suggesting degeneration, was not homo- 

 geneous, hut appeared to consist of a matrix in which were a number 

 of poorly denned denser area-. This i- an appearance frequently 

 to be noted in the early female stages, bu1 it ha- not been possible 

 to work out it- significance. The nucleus of this parasite was clear 

 cut and contained a large, faintly staining karyosome. Little 

 strands radiated from the karyosome, hut these could not he traced 

 to the nuclear membrane. Two black granules were present, one 

 within or upon the karyosome, the other on the nuclear membrane. 



The four parasites here figured anil described typify condition- as 

 found in mouse 250. They appear to furnish satisfactory evidence 

 that the spores, after their invasion of the cell-, separate into two 

 groups, the later evolution of which indicate- that th.y are to be 

 •did a- male- and females. Tin- evoluiion. moreover, proceeds 

 at such a rate that at the end of five hour- at |e.i-t a considerable 

 number of tin parasites can be. separated into male- and female-. 

 It i- al-o believed that the cases herewith considered are the more 

 convincing in that they were all taken from exactly the same place 

 in the intestine. Tin- was the twenty-second piece of an intestine 

 cut into and therefore only two-third- the waj from the 



anterior end. This permit- of the presumption that tin-, four 



parasites had all entered the cell- at -otnewhat t he -atiie I line, and 

 thai 'hi- was perhaps four hour- prior to the death of the . 



It l- of course to he understood that in the whole intestine up to 

 (i hour-, and in it- extreme posterior portion- up to !• hour-, the 

 parasites are in general in all sorts of condition- and that on 



portion are differentiated into male- and female-. Furthernn 




im;o< eedings OF i hi H w<\ Ml of [Jan., 



it is to be understood that the figures are, as is usual in such ea 

 more or less diagrammatic, since it is impossible to reproduce the 

 exaci appearances as found under the microscope. 



Mi This mouse was killed 6 hours alter feeding and its 



intestine cu1 into 29 pieces, aumbered from 1 to 29. Observations 

 were made on int. L5, 19, 25, 27, and 29. 



The conditions here are, of course, very much like those of mouse 

 250, the cells showing evident males and females along with a number 

 oi others which had not evolved far enough to permit of their being 

 determined. Characteristic females are shown in figs. 35, 36, and, 

 Plate 1 1 1 37. A male isshown in fig. 38, which was taken from int. 16. 

 This, while differing somewhat from figs. 31 and 32, is nevertheless 

 obviously a male, since the cytoplasm has wholly disappeared and 

 the parasite consists of nothing more than the enlarged nucleus of 

 the original -pore. 



Mouse 99. — This mouse was given two infective feels separated 

 by an interval ol 3 hours and killed 3 hours after the second. It 

 therefore represents the conditions at both 3 and 6 hours after 

 inoculation and it is usually possible, in the case of any given parasite, 

 to Bay to which of the two inoculation- it belongs. Thus, fig. 39 is 

 obviously that of a male and no doubt belongs to the 6-hour stage. 



The Later Stages. 



Tin Mnli. The early stages of the evolution of S. muris have, 

 as far as possible, been traced step by step as they occurred in mice 

 killed from l to 6 hour- after inoculation. At the outsel the spores 

 are apparently all alike, although it is possible that the dimorphism 

 may be in evidence even for the spores in the cysts, as appears to be 

 the case for the spores of Sarcocystis colli (Fantham, 1913). But 

 whether this be so or not, by the end of 6 hours at least a considerable 

 proportion of the parasites presenl are clearly separated into two 

 categories. 



I or the later stages it is more convenient to follow these two lines 

 of development -e| >;ira t e| \ . in-tead of considering what is found at 

 the end of increasingly Longer periods of time. For after the first 

 eight or ten hour- the time he-tor ceases to be of value, and both 

 9- and l&-hour mice, for instance, may show identical stages of 

 evolution. The development of the male will first be considered. 



As we have already -ecu. in the firsl \>'\v hours the mule parasites 

 Lose most if not all of their cytoplasm and become reduced to an 

 element which i- obviously only the enlarged nucleus of the original 




L916.] NATURAL BCIBNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



spore. Eventually the chromatin of these element- collects into a 

 number of small aggregates which arrange themselves around the 

 periphery of the parasite and transform themselves Into what are 

 evidently the microgametes. It may be assumed that the evolution 

 of the male element, or microgametocyte, proceeds in an orderly 

 manner, ami henee it Bhould be possible to obtain an orderly series from 

 some such stage as that of fig. 31 Plate II) to that of fig. 75 Plate V 

 It i- not, however, possible to give all of the steps of t hi- evolution. The 

 parasites are themselves small, ranging around >> ■ in diameter and in 

 consequence the detail- of their structure require the highest powers 

 of the microscope. There is no1 a grea1 deal of staining material 

 within them, and the picture i- confused by the fact that they lie 

 embedded within the cells of the mouse in sectioned material. It is 

 believed that in order to work out this evolution with precision it 

 . d !"• necessary to develop a technique which would permit of 

 obtaining the parasites isolated, an end which could be gained either 

 by cultural method- or by devising some means of getting the para- 

 sites out of the cells in which they had developed. The feu attempts 

 which have been made along these lines have as yet not met with anj 



success. It i- therefore to be underst I that the details of the 



evolution of the microgametocyte as here -it forth arc presented 

 with some reserve. 



Taking up now this development of the male from the stage found 

 in the •")- and 6-hour mice to that found at the end of L8 hours, the 

 earlier phases of it are illustrated by figs. K) to 53 (Plate III A- it 

 happen-, most of these arc from mice I' 11 ') and 120, both of which 

 ly favorable material. What i- seen here, however, is 

 confirmed by the findings in other mice of the same periods. 



Evidently what i- found in the 2- to 6-hour mice will repr 

 conditions earlier than those found in mice killed ;» hour- ormore 

 i and in these former the nuclear net i- coarse and ha- a 

 low affinity for chromatin -tain- see figures of these stages It is 



a matter of common knowledge thai t he chemical nature of chromatin 

 varies with the physiological condition ni the nucleus and that tin- i- 

 manifested * lying staining reaction. Thus, in the so-called 



resting nuclei the chromatin has a relatively low percentage ot 

 aucieic acid, and this i- indicated by a relatively low affinity for 



chromatin -tain-. On the other hand, a- the nucleus prepan 



divide, the pen. | nucleic acid increases, and a- tin- takes 



place the chromatin displays a greater and greater affinit} for chroma- 

 tin stains. The percentage of nucleic acid i- greatest at the tune 




2 f pro< i bdings "i i in \< \i>i:\n of [Jan., 



when the chromatin is divided into chromos es, and this is also 



the time when it stains mosl intensely. 



In the case of Protozoa, the resting, or better the trophic, nucleus 

 takes the plasma rather than the chromatin stains, a fad which 

 may Ik- ascribed t<> an extremely low contenl in nucleic acid at such 

 times rather than to a fundamental difference between the chemistry 

 df protozoan and tnetazoan nuclei. Bu1 when in division, the 

 protozoan nucleus -tain- as does thai of the Metazoa, and this 

 same staining reaction is also displayed by certain of the product- oi 

 this division, such as microgametes. 



It i- therefore permissible to suppose that in these early male forms 

 of Sarcocyslis maris, the coarseness of the threads of the nuclear net 



is due to tin fact that the achromatic filaments are bearing a quantity 

 of chromatin poor in nucleic acid. Besides being distributed along 

 the achromatic filament- ami upon the inner surface of the nuclear 

 membrane, the chromatin may also occur in lumps, in masses which 

 fill up the meshes "f the net. and there is apparently normally present 

 a larger ma— or karyosome. 



In the course of several hours, however, this type of nucleus trans- 

 forms itself into a body such a- is shown in fitis. 66 and 67 (Plate IV i. 

 This is an oval element containing some achromatic stringy substance 

 and showing around the periphery a series of granular clusters. 

 The granules composing these clusters are extremely minute, but 

 intensely chromophil, staining as do the chromosomes of a dividing 

 tnetazoan cell. In spite of their minute size they are readily resolved. 



We thus -tart with a nucleus having a considerable hulk of chro- 

 matin which has a low affinity for chromatin stains. Morpho- 

 logically, this chromatin occurs as granules, irregular masses and 

 band-, borne either by the nuclear net or upon the inner surface of 

 tin- nuclear membrane. There i- also usually present a central mass 

 or karyosome. After several hours, however, the chromatin has 

 diminished in hulk, ha- an intense affinity for chromatin stains, and 

 i- placed around the periphery in the form of clusters of minute 

 granules. The conspicuous changes then consist in the taking on 

 of a high affinity for basic -tain-, subdivision into minute granules 

 and migration to t he periphery. 



The de-ire i- to -how the several steps in this transformation. 



The earlier condition- are shown by figs. 31, 32, 38, and 39. Figs. 

 y>\ and :>_' are from mouse 250, a 5-hour stage; fig. 38 from mouse 

 253 (6 hours), and fig. .;*.» from mouse 99 and presumably represents 

 the 6-hour These four figures -how very distinctly the 




1916.] \ati KAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



variations with regard to what is interpreted to be the karyosome. 

 In fiii. 32 it is either absenl or represented by the Large black granule. 

 In fig. .".I the irregular central mass provided with a Hack granule 

 presumably represents this element. In fig. 38 it is a large irregular 

 body, while in fig. 39 it is a Large oval deeply staining granule, splil 

 Dearly into two by a cleft. To some extenl these differences are 

 due to the technique employed, but in the main they represenl actual 

 differences in the morphology of the parasite itself. 



Passing now to mouse 106, a 9-hour stage which yielded highly favor- 

 able material, we have figs. 10 and 11 I Plate III . Fig. 11 isverymuch 

 like fig. :;'.». except t'<>r th<- staining reaction of the karyosome. Fig. 

 Hi bears a general resemblance to figs. 31, 32, and 38. It is therefore 

 apparenl thai figs. tO and 11 represenl the earlier of th< 



-■■iit iii mouse 106 and hence the starting point from which a 

 Dumber of these have arisen. For the parasites in a 9-hour mouse 

 may have been in the cells anywhere from a very Bhort time up to 

 perhaps 8 hours. Hence, in passing from mouse 99, 250, or 253 to 

 mouse L06, it is do1 necessary and would, indeed, be a mistake to 

 assume that we had also passed over 3 or 1 hour- of time spent in 

 development. The period elapsing between the inoculation and 

 death of the mouse, at least as far as concerns the periods up to 

 K) hour-, i- of value only as a high limit. A parasite of moust - 

 cannot !>•■ more than <> hour- old; one of mouse L06 cannot be more 

 than 9 hour-, ami this is all that r.-m be stated with absolute cer- 

 tainty. Nevertheless, the parasites of mouse 106 will in general be 

 older than those of mouse 253, even though they will in a Dumber of 

 :it the same stages of development. It is therefore 

 permissible to use parasites such as are shown in figs. 31 and 



is well as figs. l<> and 11. in tracing the Later stages as found in 

 mouse I 1 



It i- easy t.i pick out conditions readily derivable from th< 

 Thus, fi::. l_' upper cell) is a good deal like fig. M Fig 13 is also 

 very much like fig, ii. except for the strip of basophil chromatin 

 which run- across the nucleus. Fig. II also display neral 



mblaDce to the earlier stages, l>ut has developed a greater quan- 

 tity ol basophil chromatin present in the form of scattered granules. 

 A similar state of affairs is seen in fig. 15, in which the somewhal 

 quadrangular mass of acidophil chromatin situated in the centre 

 ma) represent the karyosome. In figs. 16 and 17, we have parasites 

 in which the chromatin i- all basophil and occiii- iii a rather finely 

 divided state. In th< of the two parasites shown in fig i_' 




pbcx ii dings "i 1 111 v \i>i mi "i [Jan., 



while they are not wholly unlike morphologically, the chromatin of 

 the one is acidophil, of the ether basophil, and the facl that they lie 

 side by side seems to preclude ascribing this difference to irregular 

 action of the stain. 



It i> to be observed thai all of the changes noted above point toward 

 the production of finely divided and highly basophil chromatin. 



\s pointed out above, in the early stages, a karyosome may or 

 may not be present. When it i- present, its evolution appear- to 

 take place as follows: En figs. 31, 38, M), M. and 18 the karyosome 

 is composed of acidophil chromatin, associated with which are one 

 or more basophil granules. A karyosome of the type shown in 

 _- in and 18, consisting of a rounded acidophil mas- bearing several 

 sharply basophil granules, was quite common. In fig. 47 there is a 

 ring of basophil granules, and figs. 46 and l ( .t show somewhat similar 

 phenomena. We 9eem here to be dealing with the conversion of 

 the karyosome from an acidophil mass into a group of basophil 

 granules. 



Resuming the account of the evolution of the entire parasite, 

 tiu.. •">:',. from mouse 120, -how- two parasites lying side by side. 

 In the upper one the central body appears to represent the karyosome, 

 here partly basophil and partly acidophil. In addition to this, the 

 oism contain- some acidophil material of irregular form together 

 with a number of basophil granules, some of which are placed at the 

 periphery. The lower parasite -how- a central basophil mass and 

 a number of basophil granules extending out from it. These para- 

 from int. 8 of mouse 120, should represent later rather than 

 earlier condition-, and they can be derived from what i- shown in 

 15, 17. and is. The lower of the two, also, is very much like 

 IP. 

 !• i- always to be kept in mind that we are endeavoring to trace 

 the development of a structure showing a typical nuclear net. and 

 displaying both acidophil and basophil chromatin throughout it.s 

 entire extent to one in which all the chromatin present i- intensely 

 basophil and occur- a- clusters of minute granules around the periph- 

 ery of the parasite. Biological processes never proceed with mathe- 

 matical precision, and hence we cannot look to find these three 

 processes taking place Bide by side. But it is entirely reasonable to 

 assume that if we compare any two parasites and find one of them 

 more advanced with reference to one or more of these three con- 

 dition- that it represents the later stage. Thus the lower parasite 

 I 12 i- older than the upper, and the same thing may be said of 




1916. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -. 



fig. 53. Figs. 16, 17. .and 49 represent later stages than figs. M), 

 1 1. and 15. I to the other hand, in figs. 1 1 and 18, while the chromatin 

 i- in part in the form of small basophil granules, the balance of it is 

 acidophil. Hence, it would not be possible to say whether these 

 represent older or younger stages than the lower parasite of fig. -42 



•i. as between figs. 19 and 53, upper para-it.', the chromatin of 

 the former is all basophil, while thai of the latter is showing a greater 

 disposition to assemble at the periphery. The cases last given 

 illustrate the irregularity with which the evolution proceeds. 



1 _ 5 ; Plate IV is from mouse 120. [t shows a parasite with an 

 irregular centra] mass from which prolongations run toward the pe- 

 riphery. The staining reaction is partis- basophil and partly acidophil. 

 The basophil Bubstance is partly in the form of granules and partly 

 occurs as streaks and bands, but it is n<>t improbable that these 



r arc composed of closely compacted granules, a- i- evidently 

 the case, for instance, in the large aggregation of fig. 19. The 

 centra] mass as shown in fig. ">l could have been derived from a karyo- 

 some of the type shown in hi:. 1 1. Finally, in addition to the central 

 ma-- shown here (fig. :,\ . then- are four more or less well-defined 

 clusters of chromatin granules, in two of which tin granules an very 

 minute. 



The condition- shown in fig. "'l appear to be followed by those 

 Bhown in figs. ■">•"> and 56. In these latter there is a central mass 

 sending out prolongations toward the periphery, but the chromatin 

 i- more completely basophil and more completely separated into 

 il< -. There is also the same tendency, at leasl in fig. 55, for 

 the granules to be disposed in clusters. In these two parasites 

 .".."> and 56) there is very little achromatic materia] remaining 

 ;md this i- in part only the fragments <>f the linin network. Thi 

 parasite Bhown in fig. ">7 appears also to belong to this stagi of the 



.'ion. 



The development is carried further in the organisms shown in 



In these the arrangemenl of the chromatin granules 



int. tea U more obvious. A comparison <»f figs. ">l and 55 



witi thai at leasl in -nine cases the mod andi 



; the chromatin to assume the form of a verj irregular dendritic 

 ma-- which later breaks up into -mailer masses. Thus, in fig 

 -i\ of these -mall masse* havi ly become individualized, and 



mi. more seems aboul t<> become \v<-. In fig. 58, although the 

 v.-r\ -mall, only three such masses have l>ecoine 

 independent. 




28 pro< i edings i >i i in \« \di \n i 'I [Jan., 



The parasites shown in figs. <i-> and til maj belong in the above 

 cyole. AJthough the central mass of fig. 64 is larger than thai of 

 fig. .">}, it- arrangement is nol wholly different. Fig. 63, however, 

 cannot very well be placed. 



Figs, t'.o and 61, from mouse 179, give slightly later stages than 

 figs. 58 and 59. At least the central dendritic mass has disappeared 

 and the chromatin is distributed throughout the entire nucleus, 

 cither in clusters or as separate granules. Furthermore, there is a 

 marked disposition for the clusters to assume a peripheral position, 

 especially well marked in fig. 61. The smaller size of the granular 

 clusters in tiii-. <i() and til than in I'm-. 58 and 59 suggests that in 

 these last the clusters are destined t>> subdivide before reaching a 

 peripheral position, a suggestion supported by what is seen in figs. 

 3, titi. and ti7. 



In figs, tilt and til all of the chromatin which could he seen by 

 raising and lowering the focus was drawn, and hence some of the 

 chromatin apparently central was actually peripheral. In fig. <12, 

 only an optical section of the parasite is drawn. Here evolution 

 ha- reached the stage where all of the chromatin is in the form of 

 minute granules assembled in clusters that lie around the periphery. 

 It i- to he noted, however, that they are irregularly placed. The 

 next stage is shown in fig. till, where the clusters have come to lie in 



B Jar order around the periphery. Fig. 65 no doubt represents 

 the same stage, hut apparently shows only a part of the organism. 

 In fig. 67 the clusters, which are the future mierogametes or their 

 nuclei, have begun to solidify. The further steps in this process 

 are -down in figs. 68, 69, and 70, the last showing that the nuclei 

 finally become rounded -olid hall- of highly basophil chromatin. 

 I . 71 shows a condition intermediate between figs. f>!) and 70. 



2 >2 Piatt 1 1 1 I -how- a parasite in which the chromatin ispresent 

 in the form of solid balls more or less si rung together. The form and 

 solidity of the chromatin masses suggesl the later stages such as 

 are pictured in figs. 70 and 71, whereas their arrangement as well as 

 the - ted oval form of the parasite recalls earlier condition-. 



At times, however, the parasite reaches the end of its development 

 while -till retaining this oval form (fig. 74, Plate V). 



The final stages of the evolution of the microgametocyte are 



i in figs. 72 to 76 (Plate V). In fig. 72 the solid rounded elements 



seen to be elongating, and this elongation is carried further in the 



fig 73 I - 74 to 76 portray the microgametes. Theyalways 



lie on the periphery, and I rea the aspect a- viewed in f optica] 




L916.] NATURAL S< [BNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



section, whereas in the other two figures more than an optical section 

 is shown. Figs. 75 and 76 an- the more typical; in fig. 74 the para- 

 site is unusually small for this stage, bul is characteristic in showing 

 very clearly the arrangement of the microgametes around the 

 periphery. 



The fully evolved male element or microgametocyte is a rounded 

 or oval body, showing a stringy or amorphous residual ma— and a 

 series of microgametes disposed around the periphery. These latter 

 are bodies aboul 2 to 2.5 microns long, broader at one end than the 

 other and apparently composed wholly of intensely basophil chro- 

 matin. This is at leasl their appearance in sectioned material, it 

 i- in >t impossible that in life, or in material otherwise prepared, 

 they may .-how more than is here evident. Analogy would lead US 

 to suspeel the existence of fiagella. 



Tl b is apparently of short duration. Mouse L52, killed 



l.s hour- after feeding, was heavily parasitized, but the exact stage 

 shown in fig. 75 was comparatively scarce. This, however, is much 

 as might be expected. The presumption is that the microgametes 

 are motile elements, and once they are fully ripe they doubtless 

 quickly abandon the situation in which thej evoked, and without 

 them the residuum would scarcely be recognizable. 



In number they vary, following the count- made, from L3 to 17. 

 ring both for an actual variation and for the practical difficulties 

 in making an accurate determination, the supposition is plausible 

 that the typical number is sixteen. It is a familiar biological 

 phenomenon thai in tho where the number of elements 



ultimately produced is some power of two, we are dealing with the 

 results of the repeated division of 3ome one original element. In 

 this case, however, the end appears to I"- attained in a less regular 

 manner. 



In the description of the later stages of the evolution of the male 

 element, reference was confined to the conditions as found in mice 

 106, 120, !■"»_'. .-md L79, respectively, 9, 10$ and 17. L8 and U'd, hour-. 

 The first three of these gave particularly favorable material, all of them 

 being heavily parasitized and none showing much de~irueti.ni of 

 the cells. The conditions Been here, however, were duplicated in 

 other mice. Th 113, 132, and 133, all either s'.- or 9-hour 



periods, showed man} of the -mm- stages as were seen ii use 106, 



while th< later stages in the evolution of the microgametes were seen 

 in mice [21, I7.~>, 177. 178, 180, and 182, representing periods ranging 



from I"; to I s " hour-. 




l'K'M BBDINGS "i mi k< \m.\n OF (Jan., 



Tin Female. It has already been shown thai the female, in the 

 ")- and 6-hour mice, is an oval cell with rather compacl cytoplasm 

 and a vesicular nucleus with a large central body, the karyosome. 



It i- illustrated in figs. :;:; to ;;?. The nuclear structure is com- 

 paratively >iinplc and is portrayed well enough by the figures. The 

 nuclear membrane i- usually cleat- cut, and there is always presenl 

 a large karyosome which takes the acid rather than the basic slain. 

 1 he karyosome frequently ha- associated with it one or more sharply 

 »phil granules, and may or max nut show strands extending out 

 toward the nuclear membrane. 



It i- difficult, however, to show the cytoplasm as it actually occurs, 

 and in the main this has been done in the figures in a purely conven- 

 tional manner. It- fundamental structure appears to he alveolar 

 with the alveoles quite small and frequently tending to be variable 

 in size. The picture, however, is greatly confused by the fact that 

 in general both spongioplasm and hyaloplasm stain with much the 

 same degree of intensity and both have a rather high affinity for 

 plasma -tain-. Figs. :»■">. 77, 78, and SI are attempts to show the 

 conditions a- they actually occur. In fig. 35 (Plate II) the alveolar 

 structure i- evident, although somewhat obscured, while it is -seen 

 much more clearly in fi<i. SI | Plate Y). Parasites in which the alveolar 

 structure was a- obvious as in fig. <S1 could he found, but they were 

 rare. Pigs. 3 1. 77. and 78 -how t he cytoplasm to consist of an aggrega- 

 tion of poorly defined rounded bodies lying in a paler matrix. This was 

 a frequent appearance. The black granules seen in some of the figures 

 n-pre-e.it the Mack granules usually to he seen in material stained 

 with iron lueuiatoxylin. Frequently, also, the cytoplasm is vacuolated. 



The genera] appearance here described does not undergo any great 

 change. Thus, fin-. 28 mouse 247) and 79 (mouse 113), respectively 

 1- and 9-hour -ta<ie~. are much alike, as are figs. 77 and 78, respect- 

 ively, from (i- and 9-hour mice. 



There i». however, one phenomenon presented which appears to 

 ' interest. One phase of this i- shown in figs. 81 and 82. In 

 each of these the nucleus presents somewhat the appearance of a 

 wheel. There j< in each ca-e ;i central acidophil karyosome which 

 sends out strands to the periphery. Around the periphery are a 

 number of basophil granules. This condition was not at all infrequent 

 and appeared to he especially characteristic of the intermediate 

 periods of '.) or hi hour-. It was, however. Been in mouse 77, a 

 15-hour stage. We also have the condition illustrated in fig. 83, 

 when- there h some basophil material outside of the nucleus. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o 1 



The appearances suggesl maturation, a suggestion which is 

 strengthened by what is seen in figs. 84 to 87. In these the nucleus 

 i- the typical vesicle with it- central karyosome, while the cytoplasm 

 i- more or less liberally provided with sharply staining granules. 

 It seems permissible to suppose that we arc here dealing with later 

 stages in which the rejected chromatin has passed ou1 into the cyto- 

 plasm. 



Here it i- apparently absorbed, since the fully mature macrogamete 

 shows no indications of it. This phase of the life history of S. muris 

 is prot rayed by fiii-. ss t<> '.»l. from mice L20, 145, and 152. The 

 ttd of these was killed 11', hours alter inoculation, and hence the 

 macrogamete may reach the end of its development within this 

 period of time. 



FeRTHIZ \ I lo\. 



The earlier stages of the parasite are passed while within a cylinder 

 cell o! the intestinal epithelium in it- proper place in the epithelial 

 row. The parasite, however, has a deleterious influence on the cell 

 it invades and apparently always destroys it in the end. It would 

 then necessarily follow thai the remnant of the cell, with it- con- 

 tained parasite, would, by pressure, be thrust out of its place in the 

 epithelial row. In so far as the mechanics of the process are con- 

 cerned, there doe- not seem to be any choice as to whether the dead 

 cell would be pushed out into the lumen or beneath the row into the 

 subepithelial tissue. It look- as though one contingency would be 

 as likely to occur as the other. 



rtheless, as early as 9 hour-, but more particularly later, a 

 considerable number of the parasites are to be found beneath the 

 epithelium. This i- more particularly the case with the macro- 

 gametes, which i- further in accord with the probabilities. For the 

 macrogametocyte is a rather compact, solid-looking element and 

 iinably will retain it- integrit} even though subjected to mechani- 

 cal stress. < >n the contrary, the microgametocyte, the bulk of which 

 i- obviously merely decadent residual matter, would presumably 

 readily yield and break up if acted upon by pressure. 



Ih re and there in the epithelium a ripe male cell occur- in which 

 the microgametes appear to be streaming oul into the subepithelial 

 tissue. Conditions Buch as these may, of course, be interpreted in 

 two way-: the microgametes ma\ have reached their p| 

 beneath the epithelium either actively or passively. \n examination 

 of fixed material clearly sheds no liuht on such a question, bul ana 




m;<m ii DINGS 01 mi: \< LDBM1 OF [Jan., 



favors the view thai such a movemenl is the resull of an actual 

 motility of the microgametes themselves. It may also be that is 

 life the macrogametes are amoeboid and gain their subepithelial 

 situation through their own motility, bul hen- the probabilities are 

 the other way. Analogy is ool in favor of a belief thai the macro- 

 gamete is motile, oor do the macrogametes ever show amoeboid 

 outlines in the fixed mat. rial. 



As to the actual situation of the parasites which occur beneath 

 the epithelium, the Iked material does not give wholly conclusive 

 evidence. They appeal-, however, to occur rather between the row 

 of cells and the stroma than in the stroma itself. 



We thus have Obvious male elements and obvioUS female elements 



occurring beneath the row of epithelium cells. The production of 

 male and female cells uecessarily involves their union, and the 

 environment in which they both occur offers no obstacle to such a 

 procedure. It is evident that the proper demonstration of such a 

 process should be made upon living material, since, in a situation 

 such as has been indicated, the identification of a minute fragment 

 of highly basophil matter as a microgamete is largely a mailer of 

 gu< — work. It i- easy enough to identify the thread-like bodies 

 of figs. 75 or 7ii as microgametes, since here their relationships with 

 their surroundings can be established. But it is clear that an isolated 

 microgamete cannot be identified when it occurs in a region pre- 

 senting such a confused picture a> does the subepithelial tissue of 

 the mammalian intestine. 



Nevertheless, when the macrogametes as they occurred in the 

 subepithelial tissues of mouse 152 were studied, it was possible to 

 separate them into two categories. A certain uumber were as 

 figs. 88 to 91. Others were as fig. 93. These differ only that in the 

 latter there was presenl in the cytoplasm a sharply basophil body. 

 Also, conditions such as are illustrated in fig. 92 were found, where 

 two elongated sharply basophil bodies are -ecu either lying upon or 

 partly within the cytoplasm of a macrogamete. In consideration 

 of the fact that it is axiomatic that the development of males and 

 female- involves fertilization, the indirect evidence here offered as 

 to the actuality of the process seems satisfactory. Fig. 92 shows 

 two supposed microgamete- a-.-ociafed with the macrogamete, but 

 it i- safe to conclude that only one would have been successful in 

 effecting union 



The three cell- shown in fig. 93 have somewhat irregular outline-. 

 this being the condition as found. Assuming that this is not an 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ; v'> 



artifact, it indicates that they are in no Bense encysted, but are 

 rather naked mass*- of cytoplasm. This irregularity of outline, 

 however, is not necessarily associated with the supposed fertilization, 

 Bince many of the macrogametes which showed the conspicuous 

 chromatin body had maintained their -month and regularly curved 

 contours. 



I )|-< i BSION. 



If the evolution of the macro- and microgametocytes of S. maris, 

 as outlined above, be compared with that of Coccidium, schubergi, as 

 worked out by Schaudinn L900) it will l>e Been that there is a very 

 elose resemblance. Thus, in l><>th. the chromatin of the micro- 

 gametocyte becomes divided into very -mall particles which collect 



in masses ;ii tic- periphery and there condense to form the micro- 



gametes. This mode of division i- designated by Minchin I'M-' 

 a- chromidial fragmentation, the minute granules themselves being 

 the familiar chromidia. Similarly, in both the sarcosporidian and 

 the coecidian, the uucleus of the macrogametocyte discharges chro- 

 matic granules into the cytoplasm where they are apparently 

 absorbed. 

 On the other hand, there are many marked differences. In the 



f i r-t place, in >'. muris the male cell loses r 1 1 < » — T if not all of it- cyto- 

 -m. the formation of the microgametes taking place in what is 

 morphologically the UUCleUS. Hence, there i- not only no me; 



in sue «>f the parasite after it nam- an entrance in'" a ho-t cell, hut 

 actually a loss of substance. It i- somewhat the same with the 



female cell which, while it gains in hulk, doe- -o to a rather limited 



nt. This i- in marked contrast t.. tin' phenomena displayed by 



' m schubergi, in which the macro- and microgametocytes are 



man> times bulkier than the merozoites from which they took origin. 



The -arco-poridian run- through it- sexual development within 



from '.' to IS hour-, while judging from the data given by Schaudinn 



p. 217), the coecidian requires about two days. 



The resemblances and differences between the-.- two parasitic 

 Protozoa are here merely pointed out. The resemblances ate 

 certainly \ cry striking, hut u seems premature to assign anj signifi- 

 cance '<> them. It l- conceivable that they indicate ;• genetic rela- 

 tion-hip between the Sarcosporidia and Coccidia, hut it i- just 

 likely that we are dealing with phenomena broader than those 

 suitable for connecting groups of 'he value of the Coccidis and 

 - rcosporidia. The problem is one that requires more evidence 

 before any far-reaching conclusions are warranted. 




3 I n;< " i i dings of mi: a» \m:\n of [Jan., 



3 ime of the features presented by tin- evolution of - s '. muris, 

 however, when considered wholly by themselves, arc worthy of 

 attention. < me of the mosl striking of these is the loss of cytoplasm 

 displayed bj the microgametocyte. So far as I am aware, no other 

 protozoan displays a mode of developmenl at all lik< this. Vet it 

 i- perhaps not so different From the usual procedure as it may ;it 

 firsi seem. In all cases of the evolution of microgametes in Sporozoa 

 the cytoplasm is largely <>r wholly inert. Thus, in the case used for 

 comparison, thai <>t' Coccidium schubergi, the nuclear membrane 

 dissolves and the chromidia collect in the cytoplasm where they 

 eventually produce the microgametes. But there is nothing to 

 show that the cytoplasm takes any active part in this development. 

 It may function merely as a mechanical support for the micro- 

 gametes. Furthermore, a1 the end of development the microgametes 

 abandon the cytoplasmic mass, which is merely left behind. 



This, indeed, is generally true. Throughout the entire group of 

 the Sporozoa the fully developed microgametocyte consists of a 

 number of microgametes associated with a residuum that represents 

 unused cytoplasm. This residuum is always abandoned, and, so 

 far as it is possible to see, it is always aboul equal in hulk to that of 

 the original cytoplasmic mass. It may therefore be suggested thai 

 in the case of S. muris, the discarding of the cytoplasm merely takes 

 place before the microgametes are developed instead of afterward. 



The next peculiarity is the fad that there is either only a slight 

 gain of substance, as in the females, or an actual loss, as in the males. - 

 This is probably correlated with the speed with which the develop- 

 ment is effected. In general, parasitic Protozoa that live in cells 

 enter these cells as very minute bodies which increase in size for a 

 longer or -hotter period, growing at the expense of the cell, and it is 

 only after they have reached a certain size that they divide. That 

 is, the host cells are the dwelling places of these parasites. 



But in the case of S. muris in the intestinal epithelium of the 

 mouse, the hosl cell appear- to be used merely as a temporary lodging 

 place. The parasites, although they appear usually to destroy the 

 cells they invade, do not seem to feed upon them. No sooner do 

 they come to n--t than they proceed forthwith to evolve into the 

 mature sexual stages, which are produced within 18 hours or less. 

 It is apparent that the so-called -pore possesses enough energy at 

 the outset to carry on this development, and it seem- much more 

 plausible to look upon the granules which the spores contain as 

 rve food than as the so-called sarcocystin. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



My studies do not extend beyond the formation of the zygote. 

 In mice killed one to two days after feeding, oval cells resembling 

 the zygotes, bul larger, arc quite frequent. These are most abundant 

 in the villi beneath the epithelial row. bu1 they also occur in the cells 

 ami occasionally free in tin lumen. Their ultimate fate has not 

 been followed, bu1 Erdmann (1914) describes what seems to he 

 schizogony in the cell- and subepithelial tissues of mice killed several 

 days after feeding, ami it i- not :it all unlikely that the oval bodies 

 mentioned above are schizonts. 



One fad stands out clearly: the banana-shaped bodj of the Sar- 

 cosporidia is not a -pore. There was never any reason to suppose 

 that it was, even though this misleading designation ha- been used 

 exclusively in the literature during recent years. Labbe" I s "''" 

 designated h a- a sporozoite, which, in view of it- form, i- far more 

 plausible, ami may indeed he a correct designation, so far a- it is 

 allowable to apply term- based on the conditions in the Telosporidia 

 of Sarcosporidia. For if the oval bodies occurring in one- 

 and two-day mice give rise to the schizonts described by Erdmann, 

 ami if the products of this schizogony give origin t<. the familiar 

 muscle cysts, then apparently the banana-shaped body 1- in some 

 respects at least tin- analogue of the coccidian sporozoite. 



\- against this interpretation i- the fact that in Coccidia, where 

 there i- both schizogony ami sporogony, the sporonts art derived 

 from m. to/. lite-. This would suggest that the banana-shaped 

 sarcosporidian element i- a merozoite. Obviously, however, the 

 evidence at hand is not sufficient to warrant :i conclusion. Accord- 

 ingly, it has been considered besl to follow recent custom an. I to 

 retain the term -pore, despite the fact that it i- incorrect, for it i- 

 believed that tin- procedure is less confusing than to adopt :. 

 different designation which future discovery mighl -how to be 

 equally incorrect. 



Si MM IBY. 



1 ri,.' -pur.- of Sarco <•! bj a mouse, maj 

 '1 th>- posterior part ..f the small intestine within one hour. 



2 Invasion of the epithelium cell- of the intestine maj also take 

 place within the same tun.-. 



Upon reaching the lumen of the intestine, the -p. .re rapidly 

 undergoes cl I h. uucleus becomes larger and more con- 



spicuous, an. I a distinct nuclear net becomes evident. The granules 

 characteristic of the spore as it ...cur- in the cyst either disappear 

 «.r become much less evident. Further changes, however, .1" not 

 take place utile-- the spore gains an intracellular situation, 




16 PR01 EEDING8 OF THE \' \ni:\n OF [Jan., 



I The spores are sexually differentiated, l>ut it does no1 appear 

 to be possible, at the outset, to distinguish between the males and 

 females. 



"> Within the mouse cells the changes undergone by the males, 



or tnicrogametocytes, begin t<» l>e evident at the end of 1 \ to 2 hours. 



These changes are, first, a further increase in the size of the 



nucleus accompanied by a further development of the nuclear net, 



and. second, degeneration and ultimate disappearance of the cyto- 

 plasm. The cell contours become rough and irregular, vacuolization 

 occurs, the cytoplasm becomes reduced to two masses of debris 



lying at the end- of the nucleus. These finally disappear, the entire 



process usually being completed at the end of li hours. The micro- 

 gametocyte is thus reduced to its original nucleus, which, however, 

 i- of approximately the same size as the original spore. 



7 Conspicuous internal changes next take place, which modify 

 both the morphology and chemistry of the parasite. They may he 

 considered under three headings, but they all take place more or less 

 simultaneously. 



a) The chromatin appears to suffer a loss in actual bulk, but 

 alters in staining reaction from acidophil to basophil. 



(6) From occurring in large irregular masses or distributee! along 

 the threads of the linin net in strips or bands,' the chromatin is 

 reduced to granules which become progressively smaller and smaller 

 and at the same time display a greater and greater affinity for chro- 

 matin -tain-. 



'c) These granules finally assemble in clusters around the periphery 

 of the organism. 



(8) The next step is the solidification of these granular clusters 

 into rounded, solid balls. These balls next elongate and become 

 minute, thread-like bodies, which are the microgametes. This static 

 may be found in mice killed from 9 to 18 hours after inoculation. 

 It i- very rare in the shorter of these two periods, but has apparently 

 passed it- acme at the end of 18 hours. 



9) The females go through with their development side by side 

 with the males, but there are no such conspicuous changes and the 

 early female stages are much like the spore which has just entered 

 the cell. 



(TO) In the course of a few hours, however, the females can be 

 picked out, appearing a- broadly oval cells, relatively shorter and 

 broader than the original spores. The cytoplasm is all retained and 

 assumes a rather dense alveolar texture. The nucleus show- no 




L916.] NATUJRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. M7 



evidenl increase in size. The nuclear net does not develop as it dot- 

 in the male parasite, bul the chromatin concentrates into a single 

 hum- karyosome which maintains an acidophil rather than a basophil 

 staining reaction. 



i 1 In the • '•- to 15-hour periods, phenomena are -ecu which seem 

 besl interpreted by regarding them as maturation. Irregular 

 chromatin granules appear in close association with the nuclear 

 membrane. Later these granules pass out into the cytoplasm, and 

 anally disappear. 



1_' The mature female, or macrogainete, may be found in mice 

 killed from 11 to 18 hour- after inoculation. 



13) Finally, in the 18-hour stages, macrogametes may be found 



which in some cases -how minute, thread-like bodies upon their 

 surface-, and in others contain within their substances small solid 

 chromatic bodies, one in each case. These appearances are regarded 



as warranting the interpretation that fertilization take- place. 



Explanation of Plates 1. II. III. [V, V. 



The original figures were made by the author and later copied in ink by Mr. 

 Hunt-, .uii.-t ci" the Bureau of Animal Industry. The greater dumber are 

 from camera outlines, made on the table with a 2 mm. apochromatic objective 

 and No. 1^ eyepiece. This method yields a magnification of about 3,530 diame- 

 ters. The remaining drawings are free-hand sketches of approximately t he same 

 enlargement. In reproduction, the drawings have been reduced in the ratio 

 2. and hence are aboul 2,350 times larger than the objects themselves. 



In order to -how the relationships between the parasites and the cells, the 



have in some cases I n drawn in outline. It was Dot, however, considered 



necessary to do this throughout . 



1. Camera outline. Giemsa Btain. Spores taken directly from 

 rt. The cytoplasm stains a dense blue; the nucleus i- a reddish vesicle 

 with little or do internal structure. The spores are broader at one end 

 th.m t he ot her. 



Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hour-. 

 int * i free in lumen. Cell outline- clear cut; a periplast present; 



cytoplasm -how- no signs of degeneracy. The aucleus -how- a nuclear 

 net and i- somewhat enlarged, causing the cell edges to bulge 



Camera outline. Delafield ami acid fuchsin. Mouse 251, 1 1. hours, 

 mt. '.». Cytoplasm Blightly degenerate, but Btaining deeply. Nucleus 

 enlarged, about to cause bulging of the rides of 'he cell and showing a central 

 mass joined to the nuclear membrane with strands. 

 ; Camera outline Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 251, I' hours, 

 int. 9. Cytoplasm dense and staining deeply. Nucleus enlarged, with 

 the central m parated into granuli 



I ig. 5 Camera outline Delafield. Mouse 248, 2 hour-, mt 27 Cytoplasm 

 dense with occasional clear -pace- Nucleus not enlarged Chromatin in 

 the form of small granules distributed throughout. the net. 

 6 Camera outline Thionin and acid fuchsin Mouse 248, _' hour-. 

 int. 30 ' very solid, staining deepl j with the thionin and showing 



no signs of degeneracy. Nucleus i- a vacuole which -tain-; more or less 

 homogeneously, apparently due to the fact that the nuclear sap has -tamed 

 a- well a- the nuclear net and thus the latter i- obscured flu- i- a frequent 

 app pecialb in pai in the lumen 




PBOI BEDINGfi OF I in. \« u>i:\n 01 [Jan., 



Fig. 7. Camera outline. Delafield. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 15. Typical 

 earrj male form. Nucleus greatly enlarged; cytoplasm reduced to two 

 separate masses, one al each end of the parasite Nuclear nel distinct. 



I ig 8. Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse _'ls, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Early male Btage. Cytoplasm beginning to show irregular nui- 

 linesand to become vacuolated. Nucleus ool greatly enlarged, but others ise 

 typical. 



I imera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage. Shows very clearly the degeneration of the cytoplasm, 

 evidenced by the rough outlines and vacuolization. Nucleus enlarged, with 



a distinct nuclear net. 



10. < 'auicra outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage. Cytoplasm degenerate. Nucleus elongated transverselj 

 a frequent appearance in the early stages. Nuclear net showing a Bingle 

 large central mass, in which is a vacuity. 



Fig. 11. Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Early stage of male. Cytoplasm reduced in amount and degenerate 

 in appearance. Nucleus greatly enlarged with a central aggregation differen- 

 tiated into an acidophil mass besel with basophil granules. 



Fig. 12. Free-hand drawing. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hour-, int. 30. 

 Early male. Show.- a method of degeneration of the cytoplasm frequently 

 observed. The cytoplasm consists of a number of basophil masses lying 

 in a faintly Btaining matrix. The nucleus was typical. 



I lee-hand drawing. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. :',(). 

 Early male stage. Shows mode of degeneration of cytoplasm, which at one 

 end of the parasite is broken up into a mass of basophil Lumps, apparently 



lying free in the host tissue. The nucleus was typical. 



14. Camera outline. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 



barly male Btage, probably slightly earlier than the form shown in fig. 13. 



The cytoplasm has separated into a number of denser masses, taking the 



thionin, which lie in an almost achromatic ground substance. The nncleue 

 i- typical. 



15. Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 125, 2 to 2\ hours. Early 

 male Btage, showing nuclear enlargement. 



Fig. 1(5. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 125, 2 to 2\ hours. 

 Early male Btage. 



Plate II Fig. 17. Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 125, 

 _' to 2\ hours, baily male stage. Cytoplasm greatly reduced and degener- 

 ate. Nucleus much enlarged with a very distinct nuclear net. 



18. Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hours, 

 int. 22. Two early males, both lying in the same vacuole. In both the 

 nuclei :i re enlarged, and although the cytoplasm is reduced, it still retains 

 it- smooth outlines and is not vacuolated. Nuclei typical. 



Fig. 19. Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hour-, 

 int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm reduced to a -mall cap at either end of the 

 parasite. Nucleus greatly enlarged ami showing the usual structure. 



bin- 20. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 

 3 hours, int. 'M). Early male stage. Cytoplasm somewhat reduced in quan- 

 tity and Bhowing Bighs of degeneration. Nucleus shows a net of the usual 

 icter and is provided with one large conspicuous granule. This kind 

 of granule appears to require iron hematoxylin for its demonstration. The 



parasite lies ln a partly emptied mucous ceil. 



Fig. 21. Camera outline, iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 

 '■'> hours, int. 30. Possibly an early female stage. Cytoplasm dense; 



nucleus clear cut with a central ma-- and three black granules on periphery. 



Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hour-. 



int. 22. Probably an early female Btage. Cytoplasm sharply delimited 



and dense. Nucleus enlarged, but not sufficiently so a- to cause bulging of 



the cell boundaries. Within the nucleus is a round red body from which 

 blue ray- extend to the nuclear membrane. 




1916.] NATURAL .-< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Fig. 2:l — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 126, 3 to '■'>) hours. Early 

 male form. The cytoplasm has nearly disappeared. The nucleus is typical. 



Fig. 24. — < !amera outline. Mouse 126, 3 t«> :•>'. hours. Early male stage. 

 Cytoplasm greatrj reduced. Nucleus very large with a well-developed 

 nuclear net. 



Fig. 25. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin. Mouse 261,4 hours, 1 int. —3. 

 Early Btage i»t' doubtful sex. Cytoplasm sharply delimited and dense. 

 Nuclear nel obscured. A large black granule present. 



Fig. 26. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin. Mouse 261, I hours, int. —3. 

 Parasite lies in whal seems to be a mucous cell. Cytoplasm dense and 

 nearly homogeneous. Nucleus clear cut, showing a sharply marked karyo- 

 some and two conspicuous black granules. This parasite mighl be either 

 a male or a female. 



Pig. 27. Camera outline. Thionin. Mouse 261, 4 hours, int. —3. Early male 

 Btage. Consists of an enlarged nucleus surrounded by a narrow strip of 

 cytoplasm, with a quantity of degenerate material lying on one side. The 

 parasite i- probably cul obliquely. The nuclear net is well developed. 



Fig _' s I ree-hand drawing. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse _'17. 1 hours, 

 int. 14. Early female stage. Cell outlines smooth and cytoplasm appar- 

 ently not degenerate Nucleus rather small with a clear-cut membrane 

 and a central karyosome. n* 



Fig. 29. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse '-'17. 



4 hour.-, int. 14. Early female stage. Cell boundaries sharp. The 

 cytoplasm i- neither degenerate nor has il suffered any loss in quantity. 

 The nucleus doe- not cause any protrusion of the Bides of the cell. A large. 

 distincl karyosome i- present. Figure diagrammatic. 



Fig -;<i Camera outline Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse '-'17, 1 hour-. 

 int. lit. Form difficult to classify. The cytoplasm shows a distincl external 

 boundary and, while vacuolated, is apparently not degenerate. Nucleus 



i- a vesicle with a very large central maSG 



Fig. 31. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 



."> hour.-, int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm ha- disappeared, except for a en — 



centic ma-- at one end. The nucleus is greatly enlarged and -how- a well- 

 developed net. The net itself is acidophil, the granules associated with it 

 ate basophil. 

 Fig. 32. Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 



5 hour-, int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm ha- apparently wholly disappeared. 

 The nucleus is very large and snows an acidophil net beset with a number 

 of -harply basophil granules. 



Fig. '■'>'■> Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 

 5 hour-, int. 22. Female. Cytoplasm dense and. while vacuolated, shows 

 no -iirn> of degeneration. Nucleus a vesicle with a later karyosome and 

 two mtenseh black granules. Strand- joining the karyosome with the 

 nuclear membrane could not be made out 



Fig. ■', I Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin, Mouse 250, 

 1 hours, nit 22. Female. Cytoplasm -how- no signs of degeneracy It 

 consists of a lighter ground substance in which are a number of poorly 

 defined darker bodies Nucleus a vesicle in which i- a large karyosome 

 Little strands extend out from the karyosome, Lut they could not In- traced 

 the whole distance to tin- nuclear membrane Two black granules present 



I it' ■ '•■< Camera outline Delafield and acid fuchsin Mouse 253, 6 hour-, 

 int. 19. Female In tin- figure an attempt i- made u, indicate the alveolai 

 character of the cytoplasm of tin' female-. Nucleus a vesicle containing a 

 large karyosome 



Fig 36 Camera outline Delafield and acid fuchsin Mouse 253, 6 hour-, 

 int. p.t. Female Cytoplasm rather dense, but liberally vacuolated 

 Nucleus a vesicle with a large karyosome 



Plate III Fig 37 ' imera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin M 



'i hours, int 19 The figure -how- two females which have invaded the 

 • cell and developed -i<le bj Bide 



See the annotation with regard to mouse 261, on p I". 




K» PRO EEDINQS OF i hi \< \i>i:\n 01 [Jan.. 



Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 253. 6 bourn, 



int. 16 Male. Parasite reduced to its nucleus which shows ilic auclear 



net and a large central mass of chromatin. 

 Fig. :;'.•. Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 99, 



■ > and 6 hours. Male, ["he parasite, reduced to the nucleus, showt b 



well-developed nuclear net and a basophil karyosome nearly cul into two 



by a cleft. 

 Fig I" Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male Parasite reduced to its nucleus, which shows the typical 



net and a large central aggregation in which are five basophil granules. 



; i Camera outline. Delafield and eosin. Mouse Kiti, ( .i hours. Typical 



male parasite. 

 \- Camera outline Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106. 9 hours. 



The figure shows two male parasites lying in adjacenl cells of the mouse, 



and it is instructive in that a marked cmtrast in staining reaction is to be 



seen, the upper cell being acidophil, the lower basophil. 



'*■'< Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 99, 

 :i and li hours. Male, doubtless belonging to the 6-hour period, 'The 



nuclear net is in the main acidophil, hut a portion of it lias taken on a sharply 



basophil staining react ion. 



11 Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse inc., 



'.» hour-. Mali'. Shows a typical nuclear net, a large acidophil karyosome 

 ami a number of basophil granule-. 

 IS. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin ami acid fuchsin. Mouse ion, 



'.i hour-. Male. The nuclear material is partly acidophil, partly basophil. 



I _ i*'. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse L06, 

 '.i hour-. Male. The chromatin is basophil and finely divided. 



Fig. 17 Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin ami acid fuchsin. Mouse 1Q6) 

 '.i hour-. Male. The chromatin is basophil, and occurs as minute granules, 

 except for the clu-tcr of larger granules which is presumably derived from 

 the Karyosome. 



I _ Iv Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 100, 

 '.• hour-. Male. The chromatin i- partly acidophil, partly basophil. 



Fig. 19 Camera outline. "Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse lnti, 

 '.i hour-. The chromatin is basophil and in a state of fine subdivision, 



except for the central mass which is probably derived from the karyosome. 



50 Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 10(3, <) hours. 

 Male. The parasite shows a delicate net provided here and there with 

 has >phil granule-. 



"1 Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 '.» hour.-. Male. The parasite -hows a delicate net provided with minute 

 chromatin granule-. 



Camera outline. [ron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 

 1U\ and 17 hour-. Male. The chromatin is extremely basophil and the 



hulk of it is concentrated into round hall-. It is impossible to say to which 



of the two infective feeds this parasite belongs. 



Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, in', 

 and 17 hours. Show- two male parasites lying side by side. Instructive on 



account of the marked difference in Staining reaction. 



I\ Fig 5 1 Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. 



Mouse 120, I'*!, and 17 hours. Male. The central aggregation consists of 



sharply basophil Bubstance between which is acidophil material. In the 



former rounded granules can be distinguished. This central mass is throwing 



out extensions into the balance of the nucleus where there are aggregates 

 composed partly of sharply black granules and partly of acidophil material, 

 outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 

 lol and 17 hour-. Male. The chromatin is black in the iron hematoxylin 

 and occurs a- mmute granules. The general mass is showing a tendency 

 both to form small clusters and to assemble upon the periphery. 




1910.] NATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Fig. 56. — Camera outline, [ron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse L20, 

 in', and 17 hours. Male. The chromatin occurs as small granules which 

 appear to be migrating toward the periphery. 



Fig. o7. -- -( 'anient outline. Wright's stain. Mouse L46, 11'. hours. Male. 

 There is a large, irregular mass consisting of acidophil material which is 

 Liberally provided with punctiform basophil granules, and, in addition, a 

 Dumber of sharply staining elongated granules. It is difficult to determine 

 just where in the development oi the male parasite a form like this belongs. 



Fig. 58- Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, !• hours. 

 Male. The chromatin is m the form of minute basophil granules. There 

 i~ a large irregular ma-- of these, and three rounded clusters near the 

 periphery. 



Fig. 59. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse L06, 

 '.» hour.-. Male. The chromatin i- aggregated mto clusters of fine granules, 

 allot' which are sharply basophil. Some of these clusters are w holly independ- 

 ent of one another; other- are -till united by strip- of acidophil substance. 



Fig. tin. Camera outline Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 17(», 

 16 J hours, int. — 1 . Male. The chromatin occurs as minute basophil granules, 

 either scattered or aggregated mto clusters. A marked tendency toward 



the assumption of a peripheral situation i.- to lie noted. The remnant of 



the linin network is omitted in the drawing. 

 Fig. id. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 179, 



lf>'. hours, int. — 1 . The chromatin is in the form of minute basophil granules 



which occur in clusters, mosl of which are peripheral. The remnanl of 



the linin network is omitted from the drawing. 

 1 ig 62 Camera outline Iron hematoxylin ami acid fuchsin. Mouse 179, 



in I hour-, int. — 1 . Male. This figure portrays much the -a me conditions 



a- are shown in fig. id. bu1 only an optical Bection of the parasite i- shown. 



The granular clusters are thus -ecu to he exclusively peripheral. 

 I g 63 Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, U>' and 



17 hour-. Form supposed to be a male. 



••I Free-hand Bketch. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 



Ki|, and 17 hour>. Supposed male 



65 Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 '.» hour-. Male. The chromatin occurs as clusters of minute granules. 

 1 is. 66 Camera outline. Wright's -tain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hour.-. 

 Male Optical section. The chromatin i- in the form of minute, intensely 

 basophil granules, aggregated in clusters that are arranged in a regular man- 

 ner around the periphery. 



I i 67 Camera outline Wright's -'.on ami eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hour-. 



mi —2. Male Optical section. The granular clusters, the forerum 



the microgamel en to be arranged in a regular manner around the 



periphery. They are slightly more compacl than in fie 66. 



on Camera outline Wright's stain and eosin Mouse 152, is hour-. 



int. —'2. Optical section The clusters are becoming more and more solid 

 I j 69 Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



hour-. The micrOgamete nuclei have -nil further solidified It is worthy 



of note that lie ii'», from a 9-hour mouse, represents later conditions than 



tie 68. an 1 8-hour Btage. 

 Fig 70. Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106. 



'.' hour Optical Bection. The microgamete nuclei have become round 



solid balls. 

 71. Camera outline Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin Mouse 106, 



hours. Mil' Condition intermediate between those shown in fi 



and 7n 



Plati V Fig 72 Camera outline Wright's Btain ami eosin Mouse 152, 



Is hour-, mt. — •_'. Mai'- lie -did nuclei are elongating to form the micro- 



>utUm Wright'i -'am and eosin Mouse 152, l^ h< 

 in t —J The elongation con tinu 




1- PRO< l ! DING8 01 I in \< LDEM1 «>f [Jan., 



7 1 Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and eosin. Mouse 106. 9 hours. 



Male. Stage showing microgametes. The parasite is unusuallj .-null. 



" I ~ t * i — stage i- very rare in periods as Bhorl as 9 hours. 



Camera outline. Wright's Btain. Mouse L52, 18 hours. Male, 

 showing microgamt 



76 Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin. Mouse 152, is limns, int. — 1. 



< >|>tir ;1 l sect ion of the same stage of development as Bhown in fig. 75. 

 Fig. 77 Free-hand sketch. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 247, 1 hours, 



int. 11 Female, typical early Btage. 

 Fig 7^ Camera outhne. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse L06, 



9 limirs. Female. Cytoplasm mottled. Karyosome Bhows BeveraJ black 



granules. This is possibly a verj early Btage of maturation. 



79. Camera outhne. fron hsematoxylin. .Mouse 113, 9 hours. Typical 



female. 



v| i Free-hand sketch, fron hsematoxylin. Mouse 113, 9 hours. Female 

 Fig. 81. Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



'.» hours. Female. Cytoplasm shows the alveolar structure which can 



frequently l>e made oul in the females. Nucleus shows a ring of deeply 



Btaining granules lying around the membrane. These are taken to represent 



that pari of the chromatin which is rejected during maturation. 

 Fig. 82. Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse ion, w hours. 



Female, same phase as shown m fi^. 83. The granules Lying in the mouse 



••ell are not believed to have anything to do with the parasite. 

 Fig. s:;. Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



'.» hours. Female. Later Btage of maturation. 



M Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse L45, 



II 1 , hours, int. —I. Female. Late stage of maturation. 



Fig. B5. Camera outline Wright's stain. Mouse 146, 11J hours, int. — 1. 



Female. Late staire of maturation. 

 Fiji. 86. Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 



lOj and 17 hours. female, late Btage of maturation. 



Fig. 87. Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 1 Hi, ill hours, int. — 1. 



Female, late Btage of maturation. 

 Fig. ss Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hour-, 



int. —2. Mature female or macrogamete. 



Fig. V*. -Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 



lol and 17 hours. Macrogamete. 



Fig, 90, Camera outline Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 145, 



111 hours, int. —l. Macrogamete. 



Fill. 91.— Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, IS hours. 



int. —2. Macrogamete. 

 Fig. 92. Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 

 int. —2. Two microgametes are seeking to fertilize a macrogamete. 



Fiji. 93. — Camera outline'. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 

 int. —2. Three macrogametes are shown, in each of which is a conspicuous 

 chromatic element, taken to he the microgamete. 



JilBLIOGRAPHY. 



Crawley, Howard. 1913. Initial Btages of Sarcocystia infection. (Note 

 presented before rlelminthol. Soc. Wash., I). C, Feb. <i.| 'Science. N. Y., 

 n. .-. 952 . v :;7. Mar. 28, p. 198. 

 1914. Two new Sarcosporidia. <Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., v. 66 (1), 

 Mar., pp. 21 1 218, I fig. 



]'.>] \. The evolution of Sarcocyslis iii ur is in the intestinal cells of the mouse. 



Preliminary note. <Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., v. fit; (2), Apr.-Aug., 

 pp. 132 136, pi. 15, figs. 1 12. 

 Erdhann, I>!i 1910. Die Bntwicklung der Sarcocystis muris in der Musku- 

 latur. <Sitzungsb. d. Gesellsch. naturf . Fr. zu Bcrl. ".»:>. Nov., pp. :{77-:'<s7. 

 figs. A-E, pis. Is 19, figs. ill. 




1916.] NATURAL BCTGNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



1914, Zu . in i«z« -ii strittigen Punkten der SarkosporidienforschuBg. 



<Arch. de zool. exper. e1 g£n., Par., v. .">:; (9), juin, pp. 579-596, pis. 1. 18, 



figs. 1-40. 

 Fantham, H. B. 1913. Sar sp., a sarcosporidian occurring in 



the red-faced African mouse bird, I flhromelon. <Proc. Cambridge 



[Kim] Phil. Soc, v. 17 :; . Sept. 8, pp. 221- 224, pi. •"». 

 I.u'.hk. Llphonsi L899. Sporozoa. 8. Berlin. (Das Tierreich, Berl., 5. 



Lief., x\ - 180 pp., 196 figs. 

 Minmiix. E. A. 1912. An introduction in the Btudy <>t" the 1 with 



special reference to the parasitic forms, xi -f 517 pp. , 194 figs. 8°. London. 

 Schaudiw. Fritz. 1900. [Tntersuchungen Qber den Generationswechsel bei 



Coccidien. <Zool. Jahrb., Jena, Abt. f. Anat., v. 13 - . 22. .Ian., pp. 



197-292, pis. 13-16, figs. 1-108. 




PROCEEDINGS OF PHB IC kDRltt OF | Feb., 



I l BR1 IR1 L5. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the ('hair. 



Fifty-nine persona present. 



The ('hair announced the deaths of Joseph \l. Ethoads, March 7, 

 L915, and of Lincoln Godfrey, February 8, 1910. members. 



Hie Publication Committee reported the presentation of papers 

 under the following titles as contributions to the Proceedings: 



"Hunting Molluscs in Utah and Idaho," by Junius Henderson 

 and I.. E. Daniel- (January L9). 



"Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix, with a catalogue of species," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry (January 19). 



WiTMEB Stone, Sc.D., made an illustrated communication on 

 western birds and their haunts, being wayside observations on a 

 journey across the continent. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




1916.1 NATURAL 5< tBNCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 4.') 



CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS. 

 BY B. BTXLLMAN BEBBT. 



I\ i liniii •< iion. 



The Kermadec Islands comprise a small archipelago of volcanic 

 origin, situated in the South Pacific < teean aortheasl of New Zealand, 

 to which politically they belong. Being off the beaten path of 

 commerce, they have been rarely visited, and it is only very recently, 

 through the activity of various antipodean investigators, thai we are 

 beginning to gain any extended knowledge of their fauna. 



So far as cephalopoda are concerned, the only species of the fauna 

 known until the last year or two are the three octopods which the 

 Challenger dredged from very deep water in the neighborhood in 

 L874, and which wire therefore reported upon by Hoyle in i v 



In the spring of 1913 the presenl writer received from Mr. W. R. B. 

 Oliver, of Auckland, a small, but whal prove. I to be a very well- 

 worth-while collection of cephalopoda taken on Sunday [aland, the 

 mosi important member of the group, by Mr. Oliver himself , Mr. Tom 

 Ire.lale. and Mr. R. s. Bell, in L908 and L910." At the requeel of the 

 Bender this collection was "worked up" and reported upon in the 

 Transactions of tiu New Zealand Insiitutt for June, L914, but owing 

 to certain exigencies of preparing and publishing the paper, it proved 

 impossible to provide illustrations adequate to the material described. 



Some month- later and too late to be reported upon simultaneously 

 with the earlier specimens, Mr. Oliver forwarded me another small 



vial of cephalopoda, collected as were some of the i unusual 



species in the first lot, by Mr. I: 8. Bell, in L910. Being exceedingly 

 anxious to Becure additional material of the practically unique 

 Nematolampas regalit and Abraliopeu astrolineata for Put her investi- 

 gation, I overhauled the new specimens with eagerness. Though in 

 this particular my quest was not fulfilled, the disappointment was 

 more than tempered by findin g two species of genera qo1 represented 

 in the firsi collection. In fact, the collections supplement one another 

 in such an interesting way thai a report upon the second necessarily 

 invoke- ;i greater or less consideration of the first. The presenl 

 paper, therefore, is practically a monograph of the cephalopod fauna 




16 PROCEEDINGS l >] I HE \< \m-.\n O! [Feb., 



of the Kermadec [slands as known to date. I have bo indicated in 

 the title. At the Bame time the opportunity appears propitious for 

 publishing a few sketches and other illustrations additional to those 

 •i in my earlier paper, and I trusl the delay has not robbed 

 them of value. 



The new materia] reported comprises thirteen specimens, which I 

 find to be referable to seven species and the same number of genera 

 and families, as follows: 



l Argonauta species (young). 



'_' Polypus Bpecies (young). 



1 Onychoteuthis banksii (Leach) (young). 



1 Lampadioteuthis megaleia new genus and species. 



1 Abraliopsis '.' (young). 



6 Eudeoteuthis species (young). 



1 Megalocranchia pardus, new species. 



The two species thus added to the previous list appear to be new 

 to science. One of them is so divergent from anything we know 

 that it i- being made the type of a new genus and family. It 

 is somewhat surprising to find this form similar in many superficial 

 peculiarities to the wonderful Nematolampas regalis previously 

 described from Mr. < Oliver's material, and scarcely interior in interest 

 to it- predecessor, even though the actual relationship of the two 

 does not appear an especially close one. For further observations 

 on these species of a somewhat general interest, I would refer the 

 reader to the eonehn ling remark- offered in connection with the 

 description of L. megah ia. 



Altogether the results of the exploration of the Sunday Island 

 beaches by Messrs. Oliver, Iredale, and Bell have been without 

 precedent, so far as the littoral capture of cephalopods is concerned, 

 and inevitably causes one to ponder what ultimate harvest this 

 wonderful region holds in store for the teuthologist, that a mere 

 glimpse of wave-bound wrack from a single beach should prove so 

 astonishing. 



A complete list of all the cephalopods thus far known from the 

 water- of the Kermadec [slands, with the number of specimens 

 reported on, i- given in the following table: 



Synopsis <>i the ( uhalopoda of the Kermadec Islands. 



Depth in Hoyle Iredale Berry Berry 



fathoms. L885-B6. L910. 1914. 1916. 



Family Cibboi ei i bwm — 

 Sta meangt n 



Hoyle 800 1 




L916. NATUBAL SCIENCES 01 PHILADELPHIA. »7 



Depth in Hoyle Iredale Berry Berrv 



fathoms. L885 86. 1910. 191 1 1916 



Family Amphitretid e 



.1 in jih/tri Ins [) • la . 



Hoyle . 520 1 



Family Argon w tid ■ 

 .1 rgonauta argo I. mm- 



nodosa Solander 

 mania species ■_' l 



Family Polypodim: — 

 Polypus oliveri Berry shore 2 



Polypus I; i rmadi cen 



Berry 1 



Polypus (young of various 



3pecies 

 Moschites chaUengeri Berry 1 



Family Spirulid e 

 Spirul<i spirula I. mm' 



Family < >nychoi ei huh e 



' ' ichoteuthis '«/ " / 



Le "li 1 



Family Ly< otei thid i 



A . in ni nl a in pus n galis 

 Berry 



Family Lampadioi bi rniDA 

 LampadioU ulhis rru gah 

 Berry l 



I lily Enoploteuthid i 

 Abralia astrolineata Berry 1 



1 I 



Family < )\IM tSTREPHID i 



SUi ' i' iii ' " i ii i s bartrat 

 leur 



I ■■ ■' - ■ ■■ ■ - 



Family < 'k v\< hiik.k — 

 M . ga I "i ru a ch ia pal 

 Berry ' 



Family Nai i ili 



I i ' ■ 

 A a a 1 1 1 



- 



Total specimens i 

 ported 24 



The fauna outlined in the table may convenientlj be summarized 



:i- folloWG 



phol< 

 nuilies. < lew i 

 ( »( ropoD \ ' ' 



Myopbida I I 



(EfiOPHIDA s ' 



I 1 I I! IBB INI III \T\ II " 



Total 12 r. 18 




18 ri;<>( i i DINGS 01 mi k( \m \n OP [Feb., 



\ i w Terms Proposed. 

 The follow mi: baxonomic terms are used for the first time in the 

 present paper: 



Mosehitea challengeri, new name (for Eledoru verrucosa Movie, 1SN0, 



in part. qo1 of \ errill, 1881 I. 

 Lampadioteuthida, new family. 

 Lampadioteuthis megaleia, new genus and species. 



Karl* oh lith/s, lit w ' genilS for Si/mphrloh uthis liuiiiiiosti Sasaki L915 



Megalocranchia pardus, new species. 



Verrilliteuthis, new genus (for Desmoteuthis Verrill, December, 1881, 

 in part, not of Verrill, February. 1SS1). 



Ststi ifATic Review <»f the Species. 

 Order DIBRANCHIATA. 



Suborder 0CT0P0DA. 



Family CIRROTEUTHIDJE. 



Genua STAUROTEUTHIS Verrffl, 1879, 



1. Stauroteuthis meangensis (Hoyle, 1885). 



1885. Cirroteuthis meangensis Boyle, Aim. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), L5, 



p. 234. 

 1885. Cirroteulkis meangensis Hoyle, Proc. R<>y. Sue. Edinb., L3, p. 111. 

 L886. Cirroteuthis meangensis Hoyle, Challenger Hep., p. 03, pi. 9, figs. 



12, L3; pi. 11. tin- 1. -': pi. L3, Bgs. 5, 6. 

 1904. Stauroteuthis meangensis Hoyle, Hull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 43, p. 5. 



One young specimen was taken by the Challenger in 600 fathoms, 

 north of the Kermadec Islands. 



Family AMPHITRETID^l. 

 Genua AMPHITRETUS Hoyle, 1885. 



2. Amphitretus pelagicus Boyle, 1885. 



1885. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), 15, p. 235. 

 L885. Amphitretus /hUii/icus Hoyle, Narrative Chall. Exp., 1, p. 271, fig. 106. 

 L885 Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 13, p. 113, fig. 



1886. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Challenger Rep., p. 67, pi. 9, figs. 7-9. 



The type locality of this species is 29° 55' S. Lat., 178° 14' W. 

 Long., off the Kermadec Islands. Here one specimen was dredged 

 by the Challenger in 520 fathoms. 



Family ARGONAUTID^l. 

 ARGONAUTA I-inne, 1758. 



3. Argonauta argo Linne, it - 



L758. Argonauta Argo Limn', Syst. Nat., ed. X, p. 708. 



L910. Argonauta argo Iredale, Proc. Malac. Soc, ( .», j)p. 70, 7l\ 



L915. Argonauta argo Oliver, Trans. N. Z. ln>t., 17, p. 560. 



Iredale and Oliver record a few shells of this species washed up on 

 the beaches of Sunday Island. Comparison should probably be 

 made with A. pacifica Dall and A. grandiformis Perry. 




1916.] NATURAl - »F PHILADELPHIA. 19 



4. Argonauta modosa Solander, 17^>. 



17m1. Argonauta nodosa Solander, Portland Cat . p. 96, No 2120. 

 1910. Argonauta nodosa Iredale, Proc. Malac. Soc, 9, pp 70, 72. 

 1**1 -~> . Argonauta nodosa Oliver, Trans. X Z. Inst., 17. p, 560. 



Both Iredale and ( fliver state thai animals ;m<l shells of this species 

 arc occasionally washed to land at Sunday Island. 



Argonauta \ I fig I 



1914. Argonauta sp. Berry, Trans. V Z Inst, Hi. p. 135. 



A very small female without a shell [S. S. B. 120] collected by 

 Bell in 1910 is presumably tin' same sp< cies as I he specimens already 

 reported in the paper cited. A photograph of one of the former 

 specimens, showing the hectocotylus in situ within the mantle 

 cavity of the female, is now given as fig. 1 on Plate VI. 



Oliver (1915, p. 560 suggests thai these specimens are to be 

 referred t<> .1. nodosa Solander. 



■i.ily POLYPODID^J 

 POLYPUS - ■ neider, 1784 



5. Polypus oliveri Berry, 1914 PI. VI, I 



1914. Polypus oliveri Berry, Trans. X. Z Inst., 16, p. 136 

 1915 Po Oliver, Trans. X. Z Inst., 17. pp. 560, 564. 



As this species has no1 been figured, the matter is remedied by the 

 photograph reproduced in the accompanying plate. 



6. Polypus kermadecensis Ben 1914 



1914. Polypu kerma ■ - \ Z [nsl . 16, p 138, pis. 7. 8 



Polypus ■ 



Two very juvenile Polypi in the second collection cannol ye1 be 

 deterrnined S. S. B. 134 . 



MOSCHITES 784 



7. Moschites challengeri m 



I S86 I: ' 'hallengt i Rep , p in l i ■ 



\ ■ 'nil, Hull. \l . ' >I. F 8, p. 10 



One specimen was dredged i>ii the Kermadecs in 630 fathoms by 

 the Challenger, and reported hj Hoyle as tin- Atlantic U 



ril] . I have I"' i doubts as to the corrects 



II lyle's determination. The Kermadec Islands and th( 

 coast of the United ■ extremely remote .* 1 1 1 « I 



isolated from "n<- another, thai such an anomalous distribution for 



iwling, bottom-lovina ol this sorl seems a p on al • 



doubtful. Fortunatel) w< • Ho; - statement thai the 



Challenger specimen "ha •: the heetoeotylized arm 



i 




"ii PROCEEDINGS "l THE \< \m\i\ OF [Feb., 



formed like thai of an Octopus rather than like thai of an Eledone, 

 a> shown in Verrill's figure." In the lighl of our presenl knowledge 

 thai even relatively slighl differences In the structure of the hecto- 

 cotylus arc important in distinguishing species, there Is evidently 

 available here a sufficienl diagnostic character to separate the two 



forms. A new name therefore seems expedient for the Kermadec 



species. 



Suborder DECAPODA. 



Division MYOPSIDA. 



Family SPIRULID^J. 



Genus SPIRULA Lamarck, 1799. 



8. Spirula spirula (Linne, 1768). 



1758. Nautilus spirula Linne, SyBt. Nat., ed. X, p. 710. 



1910. Spirula spirilla Iicilalr, Proc. Malar. Soc, '.I, pp. 70, 72. 

 I'M.".. Spirula spirula Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 47, p. 558. 



Oliver States that dead -hell- are alumdant on the Sunday Island 



beaches, occasionally with portion- of the animal. 

 Division (EGOPSIDA. 

 Family ONYCHOTEUTHID^EJ. 

 Genua ONYCHOTEUTHIS Liehtenatein, L818. 



9. Onychoteuthis banksii (Leach, 1-17 



1817. Loligo Banskii Leach, Zool. Misc., 3, p. 111. 



L826. Onychoteuthis Banskii Ferussac, Annates Sci. Nat., (1), 7, p. 151. 



191 l. Onychoteuthis banksii Berry, Trans. \. Z. Inst., 40, p. 139. 



A young specimen of this species is in the present collection 



- 3. B. I'-'-' . 



Family LYCOTEUTHID^]. 

 Genus NEMATOLAMPAS Berry, 1913. 



10. Nematolampas regalis Berry, 1913. PI. VII; PI. VIII, lie .".. 



I'M:;. Nematolampas regalis Berry, Biol. Bull., 25, p. 208, text fin. 1. 

 I'M l. Nematolampas regalis Berry, Trans. X. Z. Inst., 10, p. 1 tt), text fits. 

 1 I. PI. IX. 



Sketches are now given of one of the curious hood-shaped stickers 

 which appear along the distal regions of the arms, and also of a 

 portion of the gladius (figs. I 3). 



The gladius of this species, as shown by a few fragments extracted 

 from the poorly preserved paratype ( S. S. B. 410), is exceedingly 

 -lender and consists of little bul the narrow rhachis. The wings 

 are narrow and sel very obliquely, so that the ventral concavity is 

 unusually narrow and dee]). They finally terminate in a very 

 small, delicate, spoon-shaped cone, which is supported by a small, 




1916. 



NATURAL S< I! \' Bfi OF rilll.ADKLI'Hl a. 



51 



solid, distinctly bulbous swelling at the extreme base of the -lender 

 rhachis (figs. 2. :'. . 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 1. — Nematolampas regalia, camera sketch <>i" sucker from distal portion of 



right third arm [409], from mount in balsam, ■' 70. 

 I iL r . '_'. Nematolampa regalis, oblique ventral view <>\ posterior extremity of 



gladiue ' HO], camera drawing, ■ 20. 

 I ig. '■'>. I oblique dorsal view of Bame, same Bcale. 



Family LAMPADIOTEUTHID^ new family. 



Squids of small size, with terminal, sagittate tin-. Arm- with 

 two rows "f suckers. Tentacle clubs with four rows of suckers. 

 No hooks present on either arms or tentacles. Buccal membrane 

 eight-pointed. Gladius with lateral wings, hut no terminal cone. 

 Luminous organs presenl in tin- pallia! chamber, <>n the eyeball, 

 along the stalk <»t' the tentacles, and at tin- base of the tentacles. 



For the presenl the characters of the mu family musl !><• drawn 

 from those of the type genus :tl ■. so n<> doubt importanl emenda- 

 tion 1 1 1 1 * — t later take place. 



I would tentatively place the Lampadioteuthida between the 

 Lycoteulhida <>n the one hand and the Enoploteuthida on the other. 

 The group cannot !»• referred t<> the Lycoteuthida "ii account <•!" the 

 entirely different construction of the gladii. Sonic teuthologists 

 may prefer ti> place i1 with the EnoploteiUhidce, but H seems i" me 

 that the complete lark of hook- or modified suckers on either tenta- 

 cles or arm- produces an anomaly fatal i<> this arrangement. 01 

 course a fuller knowledge of the anatomy <>t' all these forms than i- 

 iiciu possible is as likely a- not '<> bring about an entirely differenl 

 classification, but I think the one adopted \i for the meanwhile the 

 i t reasonable. 




PR( M I I DINKS OF I HE \< \l>i::\n OF 



[Feb., 



- LAMPADIOTEUTHIS newgwiu* 



Body loliginiform. Fins broad, Bubsagittate, terminal; Blightly 

 surpassing the body posteriorly. 



Arms with two rows of minute suckers, l>ut no hooks. Tentacle 

 clubs ii< >t expanded; armed with four rows of small suckers. 



Buccal membrane eight-pointed, pale in color, but dotted with 

 numerous dark chromatophores between the trabecule. 



Photogenic organs richly developed; their distribution being as 



follows: l. One at the extreme base of each tentacle and four 



along the -talk. 2. A longitudinal scries of three large organs on 



the ventral side of the eyeball (of which the median is notably the 



smallest) and a single similar organ on the 



eyelid just hack of the opening. 3. Five in- 

 trapallial organs, including 2 anal, 2 branchial 

 (very large), and 1 abdominal organ. No 



luminous organs have been identified any- 

 where in the outer integument of the arm-, 

 head, or mantle. 



Gladius comprising a rapidly tapering rha- 

 chis, free in front, hut with delicate, somewhat 

 broadly angular wings along its posterior two- 

 thirds. 



Type, — The following species. 



11. Lampadioteuthis megaleia newepecies. PL VIII, figs. 1 I 

 Animal small. Mantle firm, fleshy, cylindro- 

 conic in outline; in front rather flaring. 

 thence tapering quickly to a point. Fins 

 large and fairly thick in proportion to the 

 small size of the body; slightly more than 

 half as long as the mantle; each fin about a 

 fifth longer than wide; strongly united. in the 

 median line posteriorly, where they extend 

 Blightly past the tip of the mantle; triangular, 

 the posterior margins nearly straight and 

 converging to a very obtuse point; anterior 

 margins almost straighl on the outward edgi 

 but -oiiieuhat squarely arcuate in front, and 

 thence descending toward the body so as to 



form -mall lobes. 



Head large, almost as wide as the flaring 

 mantle opening, and wider than the body is 



Fig. t. Lampadiot* u- 

 ■'< ia, semi- 

 diagrammatic repre- 

 sentation of entire 

 animal from the ven- 

 tral aspect, to -how 

 the distribution <<i 

 the photocgeni or- 

 gans, aboul natural 




1916. 



NATURAL Si IKNtKS ()F PHILADELPHIA. 



53 



near the middle; strongly compressed; flattened above, somewhat de- 

 pressed below between the large, rounded eyes. Funnel broad, 

 rather flat and short, nol extending to the middle of the eyes; valved, 

 the valve appearing as a very delicate, crescentic, pocket-like mem- 

 brane on the inner dorsal wall a little way behind the aperture. 

 Funnel organ nol easily made ou1 in the material available, although 

 the A-shaped median organ of the dorsal wall is evident (tig. li . 



Funnel locking cartilages straight, simple, pointed anteriorly, hut 

 rounded truncate at the other end, and otherwise of nearly even 

 width: grooves -hallow, simple, straight; margins raised and reflexed 

 (fig. 7). Slender ridges on the mantle correspond as usual. 



I'm 6. 



Lampadioteuthis megaleia, outline sketch <>f the funnel region U6J. 

 X 2}: :m., anus; phot., anal photophores; v.. valve; v.o., median pad 

 of funnel organ. 

 7 LampadioleiUhia megaleia, camera outline of left funnel cartilage L16], 



• 



3< 88ile arm- little attenuate, the longest over two-third- as long 

 the mantle; unequal; somewhat mutilated in the specimen at hand, 

 hut the formula of relative length apparently '■'< 2, I. l: dorsal arms 

 notably shorter and less robust than the remainder. Outer margin 

 of ventral and thud arm- keeled, the second pan- more obscure!} bo, 



and the dorsal pair merely angled. On all the arm- except the 



dorsal pair the keel terminate- in a very delicate, transparent carina 

 of membrane. The third arm- in particular hear a strong!} trabecu- 

 late hyaline membrane along their ventral margins, though all the 

 arms possess well-developed Bwimming membranes homologous with 

 these. Sucker-bearing portion of arms compressed; the suckers 




54 



run. I EDINOS OF THE \< \DI\H 01 



[Feb., 



in two rows, minute on all the arms, bu1 excessively bo od the ventral 

 pair. On a horny ring from one of the distal suckers of the left 

 third arm, 1 counl seven teeth along the upper margin, the central 

 ones especially being long, slender, closely spaced, and rather bluntly 



point.. 1. 



Tentacles cylindrical, over twice as long as the arms; robusi at 

 base, thence tapering rapidly to the slender club, which is scarcely 

 or qo1 at all expanded i PI. \ 1 11. fig. 3). Suckers of club in four much 

 compressed rows; minute; basin-shaped; the hornj rings of the 

 largest armed with '.' L3 slender acute teeth along the upper semi- 

 circumference (figs, v 9 



Fig. S. 



Fig. 9. 



Fig. 10. 



Lampadioteuthis megaleia, oral view of a median sucker from the left 



tentacle club of the type [416], X 70, camera outline from a mount 



in balsam. 

 Fin. 9.- Lampadioteuthis megaleia, nearly apical view of a similar .sucker [416], 



X 70, camera outline from a mount in balsam. 

 Fig. 10. —Lampadioteuthis megaleia, optical section of second photophore from 



base of left tentacle of type [416], camera sketch from mount in 



balsam, X 15. 



Buccal membrane eight-pointed; the lappets light colored, but 

 the delicate intervening membranes dotted on the outside with dark, 

 wine-colored to brownish chromatophores. 





Fig. 11. 



Fig. 5. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, left eyeball, seen from below in outline, 



Bhowing position of photophores, X 1$. 

 Fig. 11. — Lampadioteuthis in<<i<ih m, basal photophore from left, tentacle of type 



[416], Been in optical section, X 15, camera sketch from mount in balsam; 



chr., chromatophores; phot., photogenic organ; st., stalk of same. 




191(5.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



.).» 



Subocular photophorea large, circular in outline, whitish; four 

 in number on each eye; three, of which the median is somewhal the 

 smallest, occupy the usual situs <>u the ventral periphery; the fourth 

 is larger than any of these, and situated jusl within the boundary 

 of the pupil, at a point almosl exactly behind the centre of the lens 

 • fig. 5 . 



A series of four large ovoid photophores appears embedded in the 

 -talk of each tentacle below the club, the three proximal ones occupy- 

 ing the proximal half <>f the tentacle, the distal one somewhal isolated 

 from the others and uear the club. At the extreme base of the 

 tentacle borne on a short -talk on it- outer side appears a spherical 

 photophore, which i- almosl wholly concealed in preserved specimens 

 by tin- tentacular sheath. Jt i- distinctly larger than even the mosl 

 proximal of the organs just described, ami judging from it- outward 

 appearance only I think it will prove to he entirely different in 

 structure text fig. l l PI. \ 111. fig. 1 . 



1 



12. 13 i M. 



Fig 12 Lampadiob drawing of gladim Hfi 



dorsal aspect, 



13 /."• entral view of posterior extrcmil 



gladi 18, camera sketch 



I ig. H I tonal vi'-v. '.; same, name 




56 i'kim bedinos of i in v \oi m\ of | Feb., 



Iii addition to the above arc the following intrapallial luminous 

 organs: 1. A roundish, swollen, brownish organ on each side of 

 the cavity, a little behind the ami-. -. A very large, elongate- 

 pyrifonn, bright, silvery organ at the base <>i each gill, near tin' 

 middle of tin- cavity. 3. A bright silvery tubercle, larger than the 

 anal organs, but very much smaller than the branchial, situated 

 behind the viscera in the medio-ventral line nearly at the tip of the 

 body ti-. I . 



Gladius of simple Enoploteuthid structure, the rhachis tree in 

 front and broadesi at tin' apex; thence tapering quite rapidly to a 

 narrow point- wings thin ami delicate, sharply angled in front of 

 their middle, where each is about three times as wide as is the stem 

 at the same level; they extend along the posterior two-thirds of the 

 gladius, terminating around the poinl of the rhachis to form a slight 

 posterior concavity, which is hardly spoon shaped, and is certainly 

 not to he called a cone (figs. L2 14). 



1 'lor in alcohol: mantle brownish white, dotted with pale chro- 

 matophores; head ami ventral aspect of the funnel darker, due to 

 the more numerous dark chromatophores: eyes dark slate color, 

 the lenses pearly white; arms and tentacles pale like the mantle. 



Type. A rather poorly preserved female (?) [S. S. B. 416]. It 

 i- minus one tentacle, and a little macerated, hut is in good enough 



condition to he described as above. 



TyjH Locality. A beach on Sunday Island, where the single 

 specimen was picked up by Mr. 1!. S. Bell in 1910. 



Measun m< nts. 



mm. 



Total length ... 85 



Length of mantle, dorsal 30 



Tip of body iu base of dorsal arms 39 



Length of fins, extreme 17 



Width of fin 14 



Width across fin- 30 



interior width of mantle 15 

 Width of neck 7 



Width across eyes 14 



Length of head 10 

 gth nf funnel '.> 



Length of riirht dorsal arm 17 



Length <if left dorsal .inn 15+ 



Length of ritchi Becond arm 13 + 



Length of left Becond arm 20 + 



Length of riuht third arm 16 + 

 Length of left third arm .. 21 + 



Length of righl ventral arm 22 



Length of left ventral arm 22 



Length of right tentacle 24 • 



Length of left tentacle 47 

 Length of club of left tentacle 7 




191b.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ">7 



Remark*.— In spite of its wholly dissimilar gladius, this little 

 species reminds one more strongly of the two Lycoteuthid genera, 

 Lycoteuthis and Nematolampas, than any other group, and tin- is 

 probably due to the one fact, more than any other, that the photo- 

 penic complexes air so strikingly similar. That of the /.. megaleia 

 i- accordingly summed up in the accompanying table, which also 

 repeat- the figures tW /-. diadema and -V. regalis given in my earlier 

 paper. 



Total 22 90 23 



Although in each of the throe species subocular, tentacular, ami 

 intrapallial organs are well developed, the table helps to emphasize 

 differences which may be more important than the similarities. 

 Then again, although I have no1 yet had opportunity to work out 

 the histology "if any of these structures in Lampadioteuthis, the 

 externa] appearance of it- tentacular photophores i- not at all like 

 the deep-seated organs of the Lycoteuthids, while the curious organs 

 protruding from the base of the tentacles fail to resemble anything 

 known to me. The single pair of enormous silvery photophores at 

 the base nf the gills i~ al-o distinctive a- contrasted with the bell ''t 

 [nailer organs possessed by the Lycoteuthid genera. 



The occasion is very tempting to add a. little generalizing on the 



possible significance of such -trikinu; differences in the luminous 



pattern of cephalopoda, especially since the constituent organs are 



vidently polyphyletic in origin, but this had besl be reserved 



for some future opportunity. 



'I have followed prevailing usage in classifying the series "i three organs 

 situated between the branchial pair in / lotni- 



nal, though n seems to me more rational m consider them in relation with the 

 branchial < <ru.in- than with 'lie isolated i" rgan. 




58 



PRO( I I DINGS OF THE \< \I>I.\1Y OF 



[Feb., 



At any rate it i- remarkable that the Sunday [sland beaches 

 should yield bo extensive a Beries of bizarre types, and thai with 

 the exception of an ommastre- 

 phid every squid collected 

 .?#' there is the possessor of sys- 



tems «>i" dermal organs which 

 we musl assume arc photo- 

 g< nic. 



Family ENOPLOTEUTHID^. 



i- ABRALIA Gray, L848 

 12. Abralia astrolineata Berry, L91 I 

 1914. Abralia a 8 trol i nt ai a 



Fig. 16. .1 bra 1 1 n 



ii s! nih in iitu, lat- 

 eral view ol third 

 hook from base of 

 right tent a <• I e 

 club [408], X 30, 

 camera drawing 

 from mount in 

 balsam. 



1 ill. 1"). —A bralia 

 astrolineata, inner 

 face of right tcll- 

 tacleclub of type 

 [408], X 8, mainly 

 a camera draw- 

 ing. 



Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 16, 

 j). 1 15, pi. 10. 



An illustration of the ten- 

 tacle club of this species is 

 supplied in fig. 15, and of a hook therefrom in fi<;-. 

 If.. 



The statement on p. 14.") of the original de- 

 scription regarding the discrepancy in the num- 

 ber of honk- on the two tentacle clubs of the 

 type specimen is just reversed; the righl club 

 -hows a fifth hook, the left only the four large 



olie-. 



Genua ABRALIOPSIS Joubin, 1896. 

 13. ? Abraliopsis hoylei Pfeffer, 1884). PI. IX. fig. l. 



?1884. Enoploleuthis Hoylei Pfeffer, Ceph. Hamburg Mus., p. 17. fi<j. 22-22b. 



?1896. Ab Joubin, Bull. Soc. Sci. Ouest, •">. p. '■'>'■'>. etc. 



L914. t AbraliopsU !"i>/i< > Berry, Trans. N. Z. In-t., Hi, p. 148. 



The specimen previously recorded [S. S. B. 400] is now figured 



o,, PI. IX. fig. 1. 



Abraliopsis 1 species PI [X, fig. 3. 



A small abralioid in the Becond collection offers some interesting 

 peculiarities [S. S. B. 419], and I am not certain that it represents 

 the same species a- the preceding, though this will quite likely prove 



to he the e;,-e in the end. 



The only doubtful character i- that each arm of the Ventral pair 

 appears to t< rminate in a slender filament instead of the usual 

 beaded photophores, hut these filament- are quite badly damaged 



in the Bpecimen SO that their exact nature i- difficult to make out. 



The two row< of hook- on the ventral arm- persisi even onto the 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HII. VDI.I.IMII \. 



59 



• ».. 



»8»1 



Fig l v Ibrcdiop- 

 " . late r a 1 



view of I a rg <■ 

 hook from left 

 tenl a c I e club 

 H9 . ■ 30, ran - 

 era drawing from 

 mount in balsam. 



base of the filaments. Otherwise the specimen is a fairly typical 



Abraliopsis. 



The tentacle club much resembles thai of the preceding, as de- 

 scribed in my former paper. 

 There are four large slender 

 hooks in the ventral row, and 

 three or four '.' small ones in 

 the dorsal row, the lati< r being 

 succeeded proximally by two 

 minute suckers. The distal 

 puri iou of the club is occupied 

 by t he usual four rows of small 

 suckers. I can make ou1 only 

 two suckers in the fixing ap- 

 l -? paratus figs. 17. is . 



VT The photogenic organs of the mantle are dis- 



tributed longitudinally in bands and lines. There 

 is a conspicuous, clearly defined space free of 

 photophores along the medio-ventral line. Bound- 

 ing this on either side is a roughly triserial, 

 band-like aggregation of photogenic organs, the 

 centra] members of which tend to be 



than the lateral one-. This hand i- BUCCeeded 



laterally by a single series of large and small 



photophores, more or less ill alternation. A 



weak series of small organs is then followed by 



a verydistind single line of photophores, beyond 



rhe arrangement which the organs are scattering and less regular. 



and n ii in ber <>i 



the distal suckers I here are eighl row- on the ventral aspect ol 



i- only approxi- ,(„. head, and the rudiments of perhaps as manj 

 mated. , . _ . 



on the tunnel, bach central arm bears two row-. 



The two terminal photophores of the subocular group are con- 

 spicuously larger than the three median one-, and of the latter the 

 central organ is in it- turn a little the larg< rt. 





Fig. 17. —Abraliop- 



. inner face 



of rijiht tentacle 



club of y •> ii ii u 



specimen H9 



1 5, free- hand 



- I. etch f r <» III 



iiuiuiit in balsam. 



Famil) OMMASTREPHIDiE. 

 STHENOTEUTHIS \.rr,:i. [880 

 14. Sthenoteuthii bartramn 



1821 Loligo b Sci. P p 90. pi 7 



mil \ orril 

 l'i| i Sthcnotruthi l„nt>'i /. In-t . 16, p II s 






60 pro* KSDING8 oi mi \. idemi op [Feb., 



Qenut SYMPLECTOTEUTHIS Pfaffer, 1900 



Symplectoteuthis oualanieusis [Leason, 18 



1830 / oualaniensis Lesson, 'Zoo! Voj Coquille, p. 240. pi. I. tin 2. 



L900. Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Pfeffer, Synops. CEgops. Ceph., p. 180. 



It now appears that my reference of certain of the Kermadec 

 squids to this species was premature (see further uote below), despite 

 the fact thai the islands lie well within its probable range. 



Genua EUCLEOTEUTHIS qct genua.* 



15. Eucleoteuthis speciea (young T) 



1914. Symplectoteuthis ouala n ii nsis Berry, Trans. N. /.. Inst., iii. p. lis 

 nut Loligo oualaniensis Lesson, 1830 , 



With the exception of the smallest, which"may prove to be a 

 genuine Symplectoteuthis, six quite small and rather poorly preserved 

 Ommastrephids in the second collection sent me [S. S. B. 421] are 

 apparently referable here. A reexamination of the similar specimens 

 previously reported as S. oualaniensis, in the light of Sasaki's recent 

 work [see appended footnote), shows that these likewise should be 

 included in the newer genus. On all, with the single exception noted, 

 the supposed photogenic tissue is evident as a pair of narrow whitish 

 bands running ahum the ventral aspect of the body, much as in 

 E. luminosa, though apparently not interrupted as in that species. 

 In some of the specimens a pale oval macula may be made out near 

 tie- mantle margin and just outside the line of the bands, but in no 

 case have the macula- at the base of the ventral arms been identified. 

 Numerous other differences in the outline of the photogenic organs, 

 their distribution, the shape of the fins and body, and the proportions 



: In a recent paper "<>n three interesting new oegopsids from the Bay of 

 Sagami," Jour. ('<>U. Agric., Tohoku [mper. Univ., Sapporo, v. (}, pp. 131-150, 

 pl. 4), Madoka Sasaki describes and beautifully illustrates a very remarkable 

 luminous Bquid from 700 fathoms, off Misaki. Japan, to which he attaches the 

 name Symplectoteuthis luminosa. The creature is absolutely unique among 

 described cephalopoda in the fad that the principal photogenic organs, instead 

 ing small spherical or ovoid cysts a- in most cegopsids, take the form of a 

 pair of narrow, zone-like bands, extending with but two interruptions along the 



ventral aspect of the mantle for nearly its entire length. A pair of smaller 



macula- of similar character lie outside the terminal segments of the bands near 



interior margin, and a larger, ovoid, transverse organ appear- at the base 



ch ventral arm. While the photogenic property of these curious structures 



OOl appear to have been ob-erved ill the living aliilnal, Sasaki infers such a 



function from their histology. It seems to me that these characters, coupled 



with several minor feature-, among which may be noted the unidentate horny 



rings of the larger tentacular suckers, are sufficient to quite preclude the proper 

 reference of this species to Symplectoteuthis, a genus not known to possess any 



1 uninoUS properties, and in which the larger tentacular riiifi> are mult identate. 

 Having conveyed these opinion- to Prof. Sasaki and ascertained that lie has no 



present intention of altering hi- original disposition of the species, I now propose, 

 with hi- courteous permission, the new genus Eucleoteuthis, with 8. luminosa 



■ Vpe. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. til 



of the arm- are evident, so that it seems possible that an andescribed 

 species ..f tin- »vim> i> before us. The largesl of the specimens, 

 however, ha- a mantle length of only 41 nun., and since we know 

 nothing of the younger stages of E. luminosa, while the condition of 

 (Mir own material leaves much to be desired, a more detailed con- 

 sideration of the speciology will besl be deferred for the present. 



mily CRANCHIIDiE. 

 - MEGALOCRANCHIA Pfeffer, Ism 

 16. Megalocranchia pardus new species. PI IX. fig. -' 



Small: elongate cask-shaped. Mantle thin, smooth, saccular, 

 membranous, much inflated; it- greatest circumference uear the 

 middle, thence tapering slightly anteriorly and more so behind, 

 where it comes to .-in acute point between the fins: maximum width 

 of mantle distinctly less than half the length. Fins small, aboul 

 three-tenth- ;i- long .1- 'he body; thin; semicircular; barely con- 

 tinuous around the point of the mantle, which the\ exceed for aboul 

 a third of their lengl h : posterior cleft deep and very narrow Anterior 

 margin of the mantle trilobate, being conspicuously indented (almosl 

 cleft) in the dorso-median line, as well as to a less degree at either 

 -ide of the funnel, the clefts marking the three points where the 

 mantle i- firmly attached to the head and funnel. 



Head very shoii and broad, the length contained in the width 

 measured to include the eyes nearly four times; width of head 

 between the eye- less than the depth of the eyeball. Eyes very 

 large and protruding; elevated on short, massive, slightly movable 

 -talk-: eyeball ovate in outline, projecting obliquely downward; 

 lid opening of fair size, not puckered. The ventral surface of the 

 eyeball i- occupied by ;i large, semicircular, photogenic organ, which 

 forms :i bluntly conical projection toward one side; another smaller 

 organ of crescentic outline lies within the concavity of the latter 

 fig. 19 



Funnel large, thin-walled; broad a1 base, extending well pasl the 

 base of the ventral arms, and entirely covering the ventral surface 

 of the head between the eyes; aperture ample. Funnel organ well 

 developed; the large hepatiform medio-dorsal organ bears on each 

 lobe ;i finger-like papilla, which bends inward at the base so thai il 

 lies almosl transversely; the two -mailer lateral organs are rouj 

 circular, :md each has :i slighl indentation on the from inner margin 

 (fig. 20 . 



Arms short, robust, the longest bu1 little more than a quarter as 




62 



PRO! EEDINGS OF ! III. \< \IU.\n OF 



[Feb., 



long a- tin- mantle; unequal, the order of length distinctly 3, 1, 2, I. 

 Umbrella wanting. Ventral arms with a frill-like keel on the outer 

 angle; keel <>i" third anus confined to distal portion, and obscure or 



o 



o 



Fig. 19. 



Fig. •_><•. 



Fin. L9. — Megalocranchia pardus, pari camera out line of righl eye of type [415], 



ventral aspect, < •">'.; phot. 1 , phot. 1 , photogenic organs. 

 Kilt. 20. Megalocranchia pardus, outline of funnel organ [415], much enlarged. 



wanting on the two dorsal pairs. All the arms have a delicate 

 trabeculate swimming membrane on either margin of the sucker- 

 bearing area, bu1 this attains much its best development on the 

 third pair. Sucker- biserial, closely placed in each row, but the 

 series slightly separated from one another on all bu1 the ventral 

 arm-, where they are relatively close together; number of suckers 

 varying from 1 I pairs on one of the dorsal arms to I65 pairs on the 

 ventral arms. Sucker apertures wide, the horny rings weakly den- 

 on the upper -einicircumfcrence and with only rudiments of 

 teeth below: even at their best, the denticles appear rather as 

 strong crenulations than teeth; about 18 were counted on a ring 

 from one of the larger suckers of the right third arm (fig. 21). 



Tentacle- short, -tout, the longer about a third again as long as 

 the longesl arm-, or about two-fifths the length of the mantle; 

 larger and thicker than any of the arms. Clubs slightly expanded; 

 armed with four crowded rows of suckers, largest near the middle, 

 but dimini-hmu in size both distally <md proximally, where they 

 continue down the -talk a little more than half way to the base. 

 A horny ring from one of the largesl suckers on the club shows about 



26 conical, round-pointed, sometimes curved teeth, which are smallest 

 on the inferior margin (fig. 22). 



( !olor of preserved specimen brownish cream; ehromatophon- 

 brown; eye- bluish black: subocular photophores bronze, sur- 

 rounded by a bluish ring. Chromatophores large, scattered, elongate 




191(3. 



NATURAL S< [EN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



oval in outline, conspicuously spotting the entire mantle, though 

 somewhat paler ventrally than dorsally; an underlying bilateral 

 arrangement is evident, particularly in the case oi the larger chro- 



Fie.21. 



Fig. -22. 



Fig. 21. -Megalocranchia pardus, sucker from ri<jlit third arm of type [415], 

 _'v camera outline from mounl in balsam. 



Megalocranchia pardus, our of the larger suckers from the righl t< ol 

 club of the type [415], X 60, camera drawing from a mounl in balsam. 



matophores; there also seems to be a certain tendency to an arrange- 

 m( q1 in zigzag lines in a transverse direction, most apparent on the 

 ventral aspect. There is a single series of chromatophores along 

 the medio-dorsaJ l in«-. exactly overlying the gladius, which appear- as 

 a translucenl line beneath; 21 of tin- organs can be counted to the 

 point where the translucent area expands. 



Type.- The unique type S. S. B. U5] is in an excellent state ol 

 r\ ation. 



Typt Locality. A beach on Sunday Island, Kermadec Group 

 R. S. Bell, L910 



Meat 'Hi mi nls. 



Total length 



Length oi mantle, dorsal 



I Ixtreme length of fins 



Maximum w idth of mantle 



W i'lt d across fine 



W I'ltli aci 



Length of head 



Length of funnel 



Length of righl dorsal arm 



Length of left dorsal arm 



Length of nulit Becond arm 



Lengl !i of leil second arm 



Length of righl ' bird 



Length of left third arm 



mm. 



To 



50 



I l 

 • > i 



13 

 15 



I 

 13 



9 



9 



13 



13 




64 PRO EEDINQ8 OF THE kCADBOfl 01 [Feb., 



min 



Length of nth' ventral arm in 



Lengi li of left ventral arm to 



■ !i of righl tentacle 2 1 



h of right tentacle club .". 



Length of Left tentacle Hi 



h of left tentacle club ."> 



Remarks. The elucidation of the compacl little group of squids, 

 of which M. pardus is a typical example, has been for me one of the 

 most difficull taxonomic problems encountered in the study of the 

 cephalopoda. All the species are represented in collections by such 

 scanty material, are so similar to one another, and the characters 

 which separate them appeal' of such a trivial nature, that the de- 



scribed forms are in sore need of careful checking up by someone 



having access t<> the type specimens of the older species. At the 

 same time, the species are quite well set apart from other Cran- 

 chiids, so that a synopsis of the genus would include only* the 

 following 



1. Megalocranchia maxima Pfef'fer 1884. 



2. Taonius abyssicola Goodrich 1896. 



3. Helicocranchia fisheri Berrj 1909. 



4. Desmoteuthis pellucida Chun 1910. 



5. Megalocranchia pardus Berry 191"). 



The second of these is little known, is unique in several respects, 

 and may eventually prove to belong elsewhere. On the other hand. 

 the first, third, and fourth are apparently not strongly differentiated, 

 and it is with these that the present species requires special com- 

 parison to justify its separate recognition. The specimen mosl 

 certainly represents a species different from M. fisheri, the only 

 other Megalocranchia with which I have had opportunity for com- 

 paring it. bul to Chun's pellucida it seems exceedingly close. The 

 description and figures of the latter are not now available to me, 

 luit from my note- made therefrom a i'cw years ago, I feel that the 

 different gh so slight, are nevertheless loo greal for uniting 



the species. In reaching this conclusion I place reliance upon the 

 almost stalked eyes of M. i>ur<lns. the immense development of the 

 funnel, ami the denticulation of the horny rings. 



ribed .i- Desmoteuthis tenera Verrill (Trans. <'<>nn. Arm/. Set., 

 .". p. !!_' now seems to me to !>'■ improperly grouped with the cask-shaped, 

 round-finned forms cited above. As 1 have shown in a former paper [Science, 

 ,', . the genus Desmoteuthis falls into the absolute Bynonymy 

 ■ an no longer !>'■ used here. I would therefore propose tor the 

 reception i era the new genus VerriUiteuthis. To nana the group for 



tin- master of American teuthologists requires no excuse Bave possibly an 

 apology foi 'ML' barbarism. 




1916. J NATURAL SCIENCES 01 PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Order TETRABRANCHIATA. 

 Suborder NAUTILOIDEA. 



Family NAUTILID^E. 

 - NAUTILUS Linn6, 1758. 



17. Nautilus pompilius I u 



1 7.".^. Nautilus Pompilius Linnd, Sysl N I ed X, No. 283, p 709. 

 1910. Nautilus pompilius Iredale, Proc. Malac. Soc, 9, j>. 72. 

 L915. Nautilus pompilius Oliver, Trans. N. X. Inst., 17. p. 558. 



Oliver reports a broken shell washed up od the beach at Sunday 

 Island. 



18. Nautilus macromphalus Sowerby, L848. 



1848. Nautilut macromphalus Sowerby, Thee. Conch., p. 164, pi. 98, figs. 1,5. 

 1910. Nautilus macromphalus Iredale, Proc. Malac. Soc. 9, p. 72. 

 1915. Naulilu ma iphalus Oliver, Trans. X. X [nst., 17. p. 558. 



Oliver reports a broken shell washed up on tin- beach at Sunday 

 Island. 



Bibliography oi Kermadei Island Cephaloi s. 



Berry, S. Sttllman. 1913. Nematolampas, a remarkable new cephalopod 

 from the South Pacific. Biological Bulletin, \ "I 25, pp. 208 212, 1 texl 

 tiu., August, 1913. Vematolampas regalis, new genus and spe< 



1914. Notes on a collection <>: cephalopoda from the Kermadec Islands. 



Transactions New Zealand Institute, Vol. Hi. pp. 134 149, texl figs. I I. 

 I • 1 — . 7—10. June, 191 !. Gives nut.- on 9 species, including 



j, ami Abralia astrolineata, new spe< 

 Hoyle, William E l vv "> Diagnoses of new species of Cephalopoda collected 

 during the cruise oi II M S "Challenger." Pari I The Octopoda. 

 Annals and Magazine ol Natural Historj 5), Vol. 15, pp. 222 236 VI 

 1885. Amphitretu pelngu ■ . new genus and spa 



Brief nol the "Challenger Cephalopoda Narrative 



Challenger Expedition, Vol. 1, pp. 21 I 7], figs 106 109,18 s 



18856. Preliminary report on the Cephalopoda collected bj II M 3 

 "Challengi • 1. The Octopoda. Proceedings Royal Sociel 



Edinburgh, Vol. 13, pp 94 114, cuts, August, 1885 



1886. Report on th< Cephalopoda collected l>> II \l ^ CI leni 



during the years 1- CI llenger, Vol 16, pp. i vi, 



I 246, 9 figs, in text , pis I 33, 1SS6 Three specie* I 



Ampl ind Eledo reported from near f li< 

 Kermadi 



Iredale, Tom. 1910 On n irin< Molluscs from the Kermadei Islands and 



mi On- Sinn- [' edingt Malacological Society, London, 



Vol 9, pp I9H) : nted in Proc \ Z Inst . 1910 



p, 57 ' ' "i nhell-bearing cephalopods I 



Oliver, \\ R B 191 on reptiles and mammals in the Kern 



[fdai 'I Institute, \ "I i::. 1910, pp 



July, 1911 VI ragment <>i' an undetermined giant ocpiid 

 up on the beach p 



1915 The VI Kerm ulec Islai N< w 

 \ ..I 17. pp 509 568, pi- 9 12, Jul> 191 3 




66 PRO< l.l.MV.- OF PHE A< \m ITJ 01 [Feb., 



Explanation oi Plates VI, VII, VIII, IV 



Plah \ I 1 ml; 1 I gonauta speciee, female. Mantle laid open t<> show the 



male bectocotylus n situ within il avity [8. S. B. 403] (X 1 1 



1 | 2 Polypus oliveri Kerry, female. Dorsal aspect of type [8. 8. B. 105], 

 about Datura! - 



Plati \ll Fig I Vematolampas regalis Berry. Distal porti »f right 



third arm of type [S. 8. B. 109], photographed by reflected lifjht. from a 

 liiciunt in balsam 

 Pig. 2. Nematolampas regalis. Proximal portion of same preparation 



Vematolampas regalis. Median portion of the terminal filament 

 of the right third arm ■ s j . photographed from the same preparation. 



Plate VIII Fig I. —Lampadioteuthis megaleia Berry. Dorsal aspect of type 



- - B U6] iX li>. 

 Fig. 2. Ventral aspect of Bame, same scale. 



3.— Lampadioteuthis megaleia. Tentacle club of type, from mount in 



balsam • 7 

 Fig. I. Lampadioteuthis megaleia. Base of tentacle from same preparation 



(X 7), Bhowing the two basal photophores. 

 Fig. 5. -Nematolampas regalis Berry. Subocular photophores from right 



eye of paratype [S. S. B. HO] (X 7); photograph of inner surface from 



mount in balsam. 



I'i.ui IX. Fig. l. Abraliopsis hoylei Pfeffer '!. Ventral aspect of immature 

 femi - - B. Klin i < 2 . 

 Fig. 2. Megalocranchia pardus Berry. Ventral aspect of type [S. S. B. 415] 



(> - 

 Fig. 3. -Abraliopsis (? . species. Ventral mtegument ot very young speci- 

 men [S. S. B. 119], Bhowing the distribution of the photogenic organs; 

 photographed by reflected ught from a mount in balsam, stained with 

 I >elafields hsematoxylin (X 6). 



Non. -I am indebted to my friends, Edward A. Cornwall and Leroy Childs, 



for most of tlie photographs used in the accompanying plates. Thanks are like- 

 wise due to both Messrs. tredale and Oliver for many incidental favors. 




1910.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA. 67 



Mai;, h 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.. LL.D., in the chair. 



3i venty-eighl persons present. 



The death of John Thomson, A.M.. -t member, February 2:i. 1916, 

 was announced. 



The Publi< ation < Jommittee reported tin reception of papers under 

 the following titles as contributions t<> the Pro< eedings: 



"The Germ Layers of Bdeliodrilus," by George W. Tannreuther 

 (February 23). 



"Some Bees from Australia, Tasmania and the New Hebrides," 

 by T. 1). A. Cockerel) (March 



"A New Specie- of Onchidiopsis from Bering Sea," by William 

 11. DaL (March - 



•• Evidence of ;i Saturation Point in Evolution," l>v Walter Sonne- 

 berg (March 20) 



Dr. Edwin i '<. Conklin made an illustrated communication on 

 hi- impressions and experiences during a trip to New Zealand and 

 Australia. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




'Vs }•}{,„ bedini •! \< \Di.\n "i March, 



REVISION OF CAYUGA LAKE SPIDERS. 

 BY N A III \\ HANK-. 



In The Proceedings of the Academi of Natural Sciences 

 "i- Philadelphia for L892, pp. ll 81 [ gave a list of spiders collected 

 in the vicinity of Ithaca. \. Y. h was the firsl importanl local 

 list published in tin- country. Twenty-five years have passed ■ 

 its preparation, and twenty-five years in any department of natural 

 history produces many changes. A number of the new species 

 have proved tD be synonyms, a number have Keen redescribed by 

 others since, and many species have had either their generic or 

 specific name, <>r even both, changed since then. 



It i.- the purpose of this paper to briefly review these changes and 



i ve a few note- and figures of such forms as seem to have escaped 

 collection in recent years. 



The arrangement is the same as in the original work. - - nol 

 mentioned are unchanged. 



DRASSID^] 

 Micaria formicoides. 



This is a dark specimen of M. longipes, with the femora darker 



than usual. 



Prosthesima rufula. 

 Goe- in /< /< 



Prosthesima frigida. 



( toes in genus Zt lot* 



Prosthesima immaculata Z< Bks. 



Prosthesima blanda. 



Belongs to genus Z< 



Prosthesima atra. 



Belongs in ZeloU 



Prosthesima depressa. 



Belongs in Zelok 



Prosthesima ecclesiastica. 



n UerpyUu8. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Prosthesima minima = Zelotes blanda bk~. 



An immature specimen. 



Poecilochroa bilineata. 



Belongs in < '< sonia. 



Gnaphosa brumahs. 



This i- immature and evidently G. conspersa That. 



Gnaphosa humilis G rhor. 



Not quite mature. 



Drassus saccatus. 



Now known as b. neglectu K 



Drassus humilis = D. negU 



CLUBIONID^E. 



Thargalia agilis = Caatiniieira cinguiata l\ 



Thargalia perplexa I Up U<t. 



Thargalia fallaz Cattianeira deacripia 11'/. 



Thargalia bivittata. 



[s known a- Castianeira cinguiata Koch. 



Thargalia crocata. 



I- ' astianeira descripta; the true T. crocata is a southern form. 



Clubiona obesa. 



This i- ' ■ r /' Keys., bul I believe also Hentz'a species. 



Clubiona crassipalpis. 



The female whose vulva i- figured is C. canadensis Elmer. 



Clubiona canadensis. 



These ari 11'/. 



Clubiona pygmaea. 



Appears '" be the female of C. minuta Elmer., this name, however, 

 is preoccupied by Nicole! t«»r a Chilian species. 



Clubiona rubra 

 Clubiona lenta. 



Related t<> ( . pygmwa, bul I think distinct, the head and mandibles 

 are not ;i- dark a- in thai species; tin- eye region is broad a 

 C. latifron Emer. I have seen another specimen from Washington, 

 I >. ( ., bul do nof yel know the male. 



Clubiona americana 



I en t<. replace the preoccupied C. ornata Emer. 



Clubiona excepta 




7(i pbo< i i dings "i i in \. \Di mt 01 ! March, 



Anyphaena incerta. 



Now known as Gayenna celer lit/. 



Anyphaena saltabunda. 



Belongs to Gay< nna. 



Phrurolithus palustris P.aUu . n •• non Emer.). 

 Phrurolithus alarius Hk- d Emer. 



Agrceca ornata. 



.1 . " /" rw Emer. is a synonym! 



AGALRNID^J. 

 Coelotes medicinalis. 



New placed in genus ( 'oras. 



Coelotes fidelis. 



This is related to C. wrbanus Keys., but in male palpi the ;>:itella 

 is not so prolonged at tip, and with two (instead of one) teeth; a 

 figure is given PL X, fig. 8). 



Coelotes longitarsus. 



N now called C. calcaratus Keys. 



Coelotes altilis. 



These large females may be the females of C. hybridus Emer., 

 otherwise they are new; a new figure of the epigynum is given (PL 

 XI, fig. 24 . 



CoBlotes lineatus. 



Based on an immature male, and doubtless belongs to one of the 

 other forms, quite probably C. ralcaratus Keys. 



Coelotes gnavus. 



This may be the same as the female C. longitarsus Emer., but Ins 



male is another form (C. calcaratus); it, however, is much larger than 



trinia arcuata, more heavily marked, more geniculate mandibles; 



the epigynum is figured (PL XI, fig. 22). 



Cicurina complicata. 



bC. arcuata Key-., a large female. 



Cicurina creber = C. brail Emer. 



The latter was described as a Tegenaria. 



Cicurina placida. 



Related to C. brevis, but a size larger; the posterior middle portion 

 the vulva is more narrow than in C.brevis; a figure is given (PL 

 XI, fig. - 



Hahnia bimaculata = // aoM» Ki 




1916.] NATURAL -' I!.\< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



DICTYNID^E. 

 Dictyna frondea. 



An immature female, probably of D. foliacea. 



Dictyna oruciata? 



One female, does not now show any differences in markings from 

 I), foliacea) but the vulvar openings are very much farther apart. 



Dictyna minuta. 



Two males, scarcely two millimeters long, belong hen-. 



Dictyna foxii. 



Belongs in genus Prodalia. 



Dictyna volupis = /' foliacea Hentz. 

 Dictyna maxima. 



Based on one female, whose large size and dorsal markings do nol 



fit any other described form. Later I took males that appear to 



belong here; they are three millimeters long, and the tibia of palpus 



is long, curved, and with a very short projection at base as in figure 



PI. X, fig. L5 . 



Dictyna decorata. 



Only females, which, although more strongly marked than usual, 

 are probably D. foliacea I), volupis); ai least 1 have seen no males 

 that might indicate another -pen. 



Dictyna dubia raer. 



Amaurobius silvestris. 



I consider it is .1. bi nru tti Blk. 



THERIDIID^E. 

 Mimetus epeiroides '■' 

 Steatoda marmorata. 



I '•• ongs in Enoplognatha. 



Steatoda guttata. 



B( l< >ng - mi I ' rust ill i mi . 



Steatoda triangulosa. 



Belongs in 7'< utana. 



Pholcomma hirsuta 



I '.■ ongs to A ncylc 



Ceratinella similii 

 Ceratinella atricepi. 



The only specimen I now have is the Exechophym plun by. 




PRO* II DING8 01 nil. LCADEM1 OF |Manh. 



Ceratinella maesta. 



This belongs to the restricted genus Lophocarenum. 



Ceratinella placida. 



This is related t<> C. emertoni, bu1 I believe distinct, the tibial 

 process is much more slender, the style longer. I give figures of 

 other view- of the palpus (PL X. figs. t'». LI). 



Ceratinella formosa. 



This is peculiar in the position of the shield, and for it I later 

 made the genus Idionella; it belongs to the true Theridiidae. 



Ceratinella annulipes. 



I made a new genus, Ceratinops, for this, it belongs to the true 

 Theridiidse. I have seen it also from Poughkeepsie, X. V. 



Ceratinopsis interpres. 



Xow placed in a separate genus, Notionella. 



Ceratinopsis nigriceps. 



Not nigriceps, bUI the specie- Emerton later described as C. 

 auriculatus. 



Ceratinopsis frontatus. 



Belongs to the genus Maso, and a description and figures are 

 given by Emerton under name of Caseola herbicola. 



Grammonota ornata. 



Probably correct, but the abdomen is shrunken now, and does 

 not -how the markings 



Grammonota venusta. 



Probably the female of Tun ileus tridentatus, but the epigynum 

 (PI. XI, fig. 18) shows the ridges more divaricate than usual; possibly 

 the female of SOme allied -pecie.-. 

 Spiropalpus spiralis. 



Xow considered to belong to genus Cornicularia. 



Comicularia communis. 



Probably correct, bui the epigynum does not project quite as 

 far as in other specimens. 



Cornicularia pallida. 



An immature female, which agrees in markings and structure 

 with adult- from other localities. 



Cornicularia formosa = Gonatium rubens Jilk. 

 Cornicularia placida. 



A female Cornicularia, and probably the female of -one- described 

 species; the figure I gave of the epigynum is not broad enough, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1Z 



I give a new one (PI. XI, fig- 19). The posterior median eyes are 

 scarcely their diameter apart, and as close to the plainly larger 

 posterior side eye-. 



Lophomma cristata. 



A female, may belong to this species or to a Lophocarenum; the 

 vulva (PL XI, fig. 29) is a broad opening, some distance in front of 

 the rima. Sternum triangular, the hind coxae separated by Less than 

 their diameter: tarsi 1 a little Bhorter than metatarsi; P. M. P. scarcely 

 diameter apart, much further from 'lie subequal P. S. K. 



Lophocarenum castaneum. 



1- ;t Diplocephalus, I think; the head shows no trace of elevation 

 in these females; the sternum i- broad, and the hind coxae separated 

 by more than width, tarsi I much shorter than metatarsi I: eyi 

 posterior row subequal, and less than diameter apart (PL XI. fig. 28). 



Lophocarenum tristis. 



Female of some species probably known in male, and may he 

 /.. castaru ui,,: the eye- of posterior row are subequal, the P. M. E. 



about diameter apart, and a little further from the S. K. : sternum 

 as broad as long, hind coxae separated by less than their diameter. 



Lophocarenum florens. 



Belongs to HypselisU s. 



Lophocarenum unimaculatum. 



Evidently related to L. florens, which i- now placed in Hypselistes; 

 I have seen no further specimens, bu1 the peculiar marking will 

 distinguish it. 



Lophocarenum miniatum. 



This is .-i ( ornicularia and apparently a dark female of C. directa Cb. 

 PL XI. fig. 23 . 



Lophocarenum venustum I Blk. 



Lophocarenum montiferuni 



Determination correct; it now goes in Diplocephalus. 



Lophocarenum parvum. 



[g /.. erigonoidei Emer. ; as in L.formosum the tibial process has a 

 deep incision near base nol shown in Emerton'e figures; il i- also 

 probably Erigoru Keys; it belongs to genus l>< plot > /ii"i 



Lophocarenum exiguum. 



I- ;i Diplocephalus, and Emerton ha- given :i description and 

 figures :n 1911 from ;i New England specimen. 



Lophocarenum spiniferum 



Determination correct, hut now placed in Diplocephalu \ 




7 1 pbo< i i dings "i i in \< \di \n oi [March, 



Lophocarenum crenatum. 



Determination correct, it now goea in Diplocephalus. 



Lophocarenum crenatoideum. 



[s Diplocephalus crenatum, a o* do1 fully colored, and apparently 

 r cephalothorax. 



Lophocarenum erigonoides. 



I- a Diplocephalus; the male is an immature specimen, and the 

 female is also probably not mature or else belongs to a differenl 

 species. 



Lophocarenum formosum. 



This is /.. erigonoides, I believe, although the palpal organ does 

 ma fit Emerton's figure in some parts. I think it i> also the Erigoru 

 percisa of Keyserling, his figure of palpus is no1 quite right, but the 

 epigynum is the same as I have figured (or formosum (PI. X. fig. 4). 



Lophocarenum arvensis = I I mer. 



Lophocarenum longior. 



This is apparently a female Cornicularia and probably of C. directa; 

 at least I find no differences. 



Tmeticus unicorn. 



This will go in the genus Delorrhipis, but is very different from 

 1). monoceros. A new description is given by Crosby. 



Tmeticus trilobatus. 



' roes in Gonglydium. 



Tmeticus obscuras. 



The tarsi of palpi gone, but from the tibiae it is quite probably 

 T. plumosus, which has since been taken near Ithaca. 

 Tmeticus flaveolus. 



Unchanged; a description, with figures, is given by Emerton in 

 1909 from New England material. 



Tmeticus luxuosus. 



This belongs to Ceratinopsis and is the species described by Emer- 

 ton in 1909 a- ( '. alternatus. 



Tmeticus rusticus. 



I cannot identify with any described form; I figure the long slender 

 hook (PL X. fig. K) . 



Tmeticus pallidus. 



Unchanged, but goes in Gonglylidium. 



Tmeticus humilis = T. plumosut Emer. 



Now in the genus Gonglyidium. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



TmetiCUS moeStUS = Gonglydium trilobatus I 



Tmeticus debilis. 



Unchanged, a description, with figures, is giveD by Emerton in 



1909 from New England specimens. 



Tmeticus palustris G m trilobatus Em. 



Tmeticus distinctus. 



I give a new figure of the epigynum (PI. XI. fig. 27 ; 'hi- shows a 

 great resemblance to thai of T. bidenlatum Emer. which Emerton 

 figures in 1909, ami probably it i- that -peri.-. Crosby gives some 

 notes under the genus Tapinocyba. 



Tmeticus maculatus. 



Crosby has given some notes <>n it: probably the female "t T. 

 probatus; Emerton in 1909 gave a new figure <>f the epigynum which 

 -how- two lobes a- in my figure. 



Tmeticus minutus. 



Crosby has given notes under the genus Gongylidiellum, a new 

 figure of palpus is here given Pi. \. t'p_ 



Tmeticus gnavus. 



New figures are given of the palpus (PI. X. figs. •'> 7); it is in the 

 trildbatus group. 



Erigone longipalpis. 



More piop.rlv placed under E. persimilis <'!». 



Linyphia communis. 



I place this in Frontinella < !ambr. 



Linyphia clathrata. 



This belongs to \ 



Linyphia phrygiana » it. annulipes. 



This variation in color i- hardly worthy of a name. 



Linyphia variabilis. 



Belongs to N( 



Linyphia conferta. 



Belongs to JV< Emerton considers the true conferta to be a 



southern form, and has described this a- Linyphia maculaia. 



Stemonyphantei bucculentus. 



I- tin- type of the genus BolyphanJU 



Diplostyla pallida. 



This is ;i very pale specimen ol nigrina. 




l'Kix i comas of i in: \< mh.mi oi [March, 



Diplostyla alboventns 



Unchanged; I figure the hook (PI. XI, fig. _' l 



Helophora insignis. 



I- considered to be a true Linyphia. 



Bathyphantes minuta. 



Belongs to /.' pthyphai 



Bathyphantes nebulosa. 



Belongs to L< pthyphantes. 



Bathyphantes alpina. 



These are B. zebra, qoI bo strongly colored as aormal. 



Bathyphantes subalpina. 



Determination correct. 



Bathyphantes decorata. 



Very similar to B. zebra, but -mailer, paler, and few if any silvery 

 spots on the basal part of the dorsum of abdomen; the male palpus 

 differs a little in the hook and in shape of the outer process which 

 i- long and pointed, and with a comb of long hairs above; a new 

 figure is given (PI. X. fig. 13). 



Bathyphantes argenteomaculata. 



Thea an B. zebra, not quite mature. 



Bathyphantes pallida. 



I cannot place these females; the prominent epigynum is even 

 more protuberant than figured, possibly near to Tmeticus brunneus, 



but more than one-half smaller. 

 Bathyphantes sabulosa 



These arc ]>. zebra. 



Bathyphantes umbratilis. 



Not quite mature female, possibly of Microneta olivacea since the 

 palpi are enlarged. 



Bathyphantes complicata. 



Nol this species, bul from the male palpus I cannot place it with 

 any described form, though it may be near Microneta longitubus. 



Bathyphantes unimaculata. 



Related to />'. complicata; the palpus has a broad band obliquely 

 aero.— as in that species, bu1 the tube is -lender and -harp. 



Bathyphantes inornata. 



The palpus figured is l>. angulata, but others in lot are B. uni- 

 maculata. 




1916.] NATURAL B( I KM BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Bathyphantes tristis. 



The median rounded part of the epigynum shows two cavities on 

 the posterior edge. Probably the female of some described Micro- 

 neta or Bathyphantes (PL XI. fig. 17 . 



Microneta latens = M ii<r. 



Microneta palustris. 



Thi- is a Pedanostethus; I giv< a figure of the other side of palpus 

 PL XI, fig. 16) ; this does not seem to agree with any described species; 

 the epigynum of the females PI. XI. fig 25 lollected after descrip- 

 tion wad made) agrees very well with one of Emerton's figures ol 

 riparius. 



Microneta luteola. 



I give a figure of other side of palpus (PL X. fig. 2), it were prob- 

 ably better in Bathyphantes, and related to B.calcaratus Emer.; t here 

 are, however, n<> marks on the basal part of the abdomen, but several 

 faint, whitish, transverse spots toward tip. 



Microneta flaveola. 



This is probably only a form of Bathyphantes angulata; the hook, 

 however, is no1 as heavy as in that species, and there arc several 

 structures not shown on Emerton's figure. In the original figure 

 a part of the median bilobed process was mistaken for a continuation 

 of the upper limb of the hook (PL X. fig. 9 



Microneta complicata. 



\ figure is given of the back of the palpus (PL X. fig. L4); it is 

 related probably to Bathyphantes intricate Emer., but distinct. 



Microneta minutissima. 



The size given was a little too small; it is about 1.1 nun. long PI 

 X. fig. L2 



Microneta frontata. 



This is a Pedanostethu . and it agrees well in size, color, and epigy- 

 num with what Emerton figures as lii- female P. pumilus, and I 

 believe it i- the same. 



Microneta gigantea. 



This appears to bi Emer., the femal< ol which 



was figured in 1909. The low, broad head and small A. M. E. \\«>ul<l 

 seem to iinli«-:iti a special genus. 



Micronita disti: 



Perhaps better placed in / ' .<■ n<u figures P \ 



l of the palpus; apparently not otherwise known. 




i 8 PRO* EEDINGS OF Nil \< \l>l\n 01 March, 



EPEIRIDuE. 

 Epeira cinerea 

 Epeira sclopetaria. 



[g same as /■.'. sericata CI. which has page precedence. 



Epeira patagiata. 



[s same as E. oceUata CI. which has page precedence. 



Epeira strix. 



Has <»!der name in /•,'. foliata Koch. 

 Epeira marmorea. 



I- the same as E. gigas Leach. 



Epeira insularis = E. gigat Leach. 



Epeira labyrinthea. 



[s considered to form a separate genus, Metepeira. 



Epeira placida. 



Belongs to genus Mangora. 



Epeira gibberosa. 



Belongs to genus Mangora. 



Epeira parvula = E. prompta Htz. 

 Epeira stellata. 



Belongs in genus Plectana. 



Epeira ithaca. 



I- young of E. gigas Leach. 



Singa maculata. 



Name preoccupied, changed to S. truncata, 



Acrosoma rugosa = A., gracilu Walck. 

 Argiope riparia = -1 awantia Lucas. 

 Argiope transversa = 1 trifa 

 Argyroepeira hortorum. 



I roes in genus L> ucaugt . 



TETRAGNATHID^]. 

 Tetragnatha vermiformis. 



In genus Eugnaiha. 



Tetragnatha straminea. 



In genus Eugnaiha. 



Tetragnatha caudata. 



Belongs in genus Eucta. 



Tetragnatha pallida. 



The specific name was preoccupied and changed by F. ( >■ P. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Cambridge to pallescens. McCook has published a description; 

 it goes in genus Eugnatha. 



Pachygnatha brevis. 



This is the real P. xanthostoma of Koch. 



Pachygnatha xanthostoma. 



This i> the P. xanthostoma of McCook, bul not of Koch; I propose 

 to call it P. mccooki n.n. 



THOMISID^E. 

 Xysticus stomachosus. 



Probably is X. ft rox Htz. 



Xysticus feroculus = X. truj . 

 Xysticus distinctus. 



This is apparently a specimen of X. stomachosus, recently trans- 

 formed, in which the part- of the vulva show more distinctly than 

 usual. 



Xysticus brunneus. 



This is the female of the true X. limbatus Keys. 



Xysticus crudelis = -V. brut 

 Xysticus transversus 

 Xysticus lentus. 



This is the male of gulosus, previously not described. 



Xysticus nervosus. 



Unchanged; EmertoD has given additional description and figures. 



Xysticus formosus 



l Qchanged, Emerton ha- given additional description and figures. 



Xysticus limbatus. 



Unchanged; i' is a male of the true limbatus of Keyserling; u<>t 

 the limbatus of Emerton. 



Xysticus quadrilineatus 

 Xysticus maculatus. 



[mmature specimens, probably of X. stomachosus. 



Ozyptila georgiana 

 Oxyptila conspurcata. 



Unchanged; the 0. eorgiana Keys, is the same species. 



Misumena rosea w 

 Misumena georgiana. 



I consider this to be the M. celer of Hentz. 



Misumena foliatn 




sii pro( BEDINGS OF i in \< \ih:m\ OF March, 



Misumena placida u Hti 



Philodromus vulgaris P. pernix Blk. 

 Philodromus prselustris 



Immature specimens of P. pernix Blk. 



Philodromus siguifer. 



This, I believe, is the same as Ph. expositus of Keyserling {Ph. 

 maculatus Blk.). 



Philodromus gracilis = Ph. pernix Blk. 

 Philodromus unicolor P. m/vtea 

 Philodromus ornatus. 



Unchanged, Emerton has given a description and figures. 



Philodromus placidus. 



Unchanged; related to Ph. ornatus. 



Philodromus minutus. 



In well-marked specimens the legs arc lined behind with Mack. 

 the hind pair od front edge; I think that Ph. brevis Emer. is the male 

 of this species; I have taken P. brevis at Ithaca. 



Philodromus minusculus. 



This closely resembles Ph. ornatus and it is probably that species; 

 but it- very much smaller size induced me to describe it: I have 

 no other specimens as small. 



Philodromus exilis. 



Tliis differs from the other small species of the genus in elongate 

 abdomen: I believe the Ph. bidentatus Emer. is the male of this 

 species. 



Philodromus rufus. 



Unchanged; Emerton gives figures and description under name 

 '. pictus. 



Philodromus laticeps. 



This immature mule is Ph. pernix Blk. 



Philodromus aureolus. 



These are young specimens; in appearance they agree with Ph. 

 ■'us Emer., bu1 one cannol lie sure without adult-. 



LYCOSID^E 

 Lycosa nidicola ; = /-■ heUva Walck. 

 Lycosa communis L avida Walck. 

 Lycosa nigroventris. 



This is the male of L. frondicola. 



Lycosa similis = L. pratentii Emer. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Lycosa rufiventris 



Lycosa humilis - ■ - . Hk<. 



Lycosa polita = Trochosa rubicunda 

 Lycosa scutulata - 1- rabida Walck. 

 Lycosa vulpina = /.. tup* i Ht*. 

 Lycosa crudelis = L. hellua Walck. 

 Lycosa immaculata lltz. 



Lycosa exitiosa I Eta. <p. 



Lycosa oblonga = L a . ■ a Ht/. 

 Pardosa pallida. 



Name preoccupied and changed by Chamberlin to P. emertoni, 



tint I. think it is /'. distincta Blackw. 



Pardosa annulata. 



I- the female of P. minima Keys. 



Pardosa venusta='/ J - lapidieina Emer. 

 Pardosa brunnea. 



I- P. glacialis Thor., and I think is P. modica Blackw. 



Pardosa gracilis. 



This is a Schizogyna, Lycosa relucens of Montgomery is the same 

 form. 



Pardosa albopatella. 



Now known as P. minima Keys. 



Pardosa nigropalpis. 



I- P. flcuripea Keys. :m<l I think also P. canadensis Blackw. 



Pardosa montana P xeram 

 Pardosa moesta. 



Chamberlin has given a new description and figure in his Revision 

 nt the Lycosidae. P. diffu a Em. is apparently the male of this 

 species. 



Pardosa obsoleta P 

 Pirata montana. 



These females are nol montana, bu1 agree with aspirans Chamber. 



Pirata montanoidei. 



Female runs ou1 to P. a and probably ie thai species, bul 



th<- figure of the vulva of thai species shows the tip flattened ou1 

 instead of benl down as normally the case, so i1 appears different. 

 P. humicolus is al the darker colors are <>t' no specific value, 



at least not in allied /'. minuia (PI. \l. fig. 20 . 



Pirata agilis 




82 proceedings oi mi: \' \i>i:\n oi [March, 



Pirata exigua I mcr. 



\ \ci\ dark female, with black-banded legs and dark sternum; 

 the vulva seems to be the same as in the pale form. 



Pirata minuU. 



\ pale female with wholly pair, unhanded legs, and pale sternum. 



Aulonia aurantia. 



This is an immature Pardosa. 



Ocyale undata. 



( ipes in the genus Pisaurina. 



Dolomedes sexpunctatus. 



Young specimens of D. tenebrosus. 



Dolomedes scriptus. 



Young specimens of D. tenebrosus. 



ATTID^3. 

 Phidippus mystaceus P electa Koch, not Hentz's myslcu 

 Phidippus albomaculatus Koch. 



Phidippus rauterbergi = P. audax Htz. 

 Phidippus mccooki = P. ctutrenai* Koch. 

 Phidippus tripunctatus = P. audax Htz. 

 Philaeus prinoepB = Phidippt 

 Philaeus militaris. 



Belongs to genus Dendryphantes. 



Dendryphantes capitatus - D. octavus Htz. 

 Dendryphantes elegans. 



Belongs to genus Tuielina. 



Dendryphantes flavus. 



Specimens immature, bu1 agree in markings with adults. 



Dendryphantes insignis D octawt Btz 

 Dendryphantes ornatus Htz. 



Dendryphantes exiguus =• D. fla 



Specimens lack the dark mark on femora, normally present; the 

 female had nol been described. 



Icius formosus- 



Belongs to Marpissa, and is possibly the unknown male of M. binus. 



Icius albovittatus D 

 Icius palmarum. 



[s now in the genus Wala. 



Icius mitratus. 



Also belongs to Wala. 




1910.; NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Icius harti. 



I- /. fuligiru us Blackw. 



Icius moestus Dend . lltz. 



Icius elegans. 



A young specimen, probably of 11'"/'/. 



Eris octavus = />■ Ittz. 



Eris nervosus. 



Belongs in the genus Zygoballus. 



Hasarius hoyi P aia Clerck. 



Habrocestum latens -- Pi '*< CI 



Habrocestum ccecatum Pi 

 Habrocestum peregrinum. 



es in 'In genus P< '■■■ - 



Habrocestum splendens P ickw. 



Saitis pulex. 



I- kepi now in Habrocestum. 



Astia vittata. 



Now known as Mama nigt r. 



Epiblemum scenicum. 



Belongs in genus Salt 



Admestina wheeleri. 



I have elsewhere 1 shown this to !>•• tibialis of Koch. 



Marptusa familiaris. 



I have elsewhere 1 shown this to be Marpissa undata I )< Gecr. 



Marptusa rupicola. 



I believe it distinct from familiaris (undata); it also occurs :ii 

 <in;it Falls, Va., under pieces of rocks. 



Synageles picata. 



I- now placed in genus Peckhamia. 



EXPL w vi [ON "i l'i. '.II- X \\n XI. 



I'i. \ i ' I - I W palpus. 



■ palpus, 

 pus. 



I /."/■' 



/ l|ll|-. 



I top ol palp 



I palpus. 



I patella, 

 ilpus. 



/ 




si PRO* BSDINGS OF THE \< kDEMl 01 M.irch, 



ttctu rutlit us, I k. 



Uinella placida, palpus 



.„./<( muiiiiissiniii. palpus. 

 ■ yphanies decora, palpus. 

 oneta complicata, palpus. 

 15 Dictyna maxima, palpus. 



I - ! v 1 1 \1 M '•' paluslris, palpus. 



I : Bathyphantes tristia, head. 



■imoiititii r, nusta, vulva. 

 pig, 19 Curiiiriiliirin placida, vulva. 



ota morUanoides, two vulva'. 

 I [g 21 D plostyh alboverUris, hook. 



r,,M U8, vulva. 

 Fig. 23. Lophocarenum miniatum, vulva. 



24. Calotes altiiis, vulva. 

 Pig, 25 \1 •mint In paluslris, vulva. 



via placida, vulva, 

 lit:. 27.- Tmelicus distincius, vulva. 



thocan num castant urn, vulva. 

 29 Lophommn cristata, vulva. 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



April 18. 



The President, Samuel (i. Dixon, M.D.. LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The death- of the following members were announced: 



Emlen Physick, March 21, 1916. 

 Charles Chauncey, A]>ril 3, 1916. 

 Norton Down-. April 15, 1916. 



The Publication Committee announced the presentation of a 

 paper entitled "< kmtributions to the Anatomy of Python reticulatus 

 Schneider)," by Joseph < '. Thompson April 8, 1916). 



Temperatun and tht Activities >f Animals. — Merkel H. Jacobs, 

 Ph.D.. remarked that the continued existence of living organisms 

 i- possible within a range of temperature of the order of magnitude 

 of possibly one one-thousandth of thai encountered in the universe. 

 The majority of the activities of organisms occur within the region 

 from slightly below e < '. to aboul 15* < '. For individual species the 

 range is usually less sometimes as little as 15° or even 6 C. A 

 certain Dumber of forms can exist for a shorl time in a more or less 

 inactive condition through a range of 350 ( !. or more. 



Even within the natural range for a species the effects of dififerenl 

 temperatures is very striking. A rise of 10 C. may cause at leasl 

 a 1 6-fold increase in the rate of mosl of the chemical reaction- under- 

 lying the various manifestations of life. Since dififerenl proc< 

 are accelerated unequally by such a rise and since the point of equi- 

 librium in reversible reaction- i- changed, the efifeel on the organism 

 as a whole may be qualitative as well as quantitative. The usi 

 high temperature- has ''ecu a favorable mean- of securing striking 

 mollification- of existing forms of life. A possible case of a heritable 

 variation produced in this way is the three-vacuoled race of P 



- which appeared sixteen months ago In the Zoological Laboratory 

 of the University of Pennsylvania and which has remained constanl 

 ever since. 



Dififerenl organisms are differently situated with respeel to the 

 daily and yearly ch temperature they are called upon to 



meet. Many marine forms are subjeel to an average change of less 

 than l d. a day and i year. On the other hand, terrestrial 



forms and those living in small bodies of fresh water frequently 

 endure a dail) rang< of 30 i or mon Th< rotifei 

 i- subjected to especially Bevere conditions. Living in small pools 




s,, pro 1 1 din.. b "i mi \< u>mn oi April, 



whose tniipi rature in the springtime may drop almosi to the freezing 

 point at right and rise in the sunlight 10° C. above the air tempera- 

 ture, it frequently passes in the space of two 6i three hour- from an 



arctic to a tropical environment and via nisn. In general, the 

 form- that in their natural environment have to meet sudden tem- 

 perature changes Bhow greater powers of acclimatization than those 



livin g under more constant external condition-. A comparison of 



the powers of rapid acclimatization to high temperature of 



Paramecium or the tadpole which lives in fresh water pools, with 



starfish larva- which live in the ocean, shows striking differences in 

 this respect. 



Many of the terrestrial animals have developed the power of main- 

 taining a constanl body temperature under widely varying external 

 conditions. This power, however, is insufficient in most c ; i<es to 

 make possible a strictly world-wide distribution. Man i*- aide to 

 supplement natural with artificial means of temperature control. 

 Even he, however, is considerably affected by external temperatures, 

 • .dally high .me-. One factor in producing this result appears 

 to be the effect of such temperatures on the circulation. The prac- 

 tical result of a more complete control of temperature by man would 

 be the opening up of the enormously fertile tropical region- of the 

 earth. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1916.1 NATURAL SI LENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



STUDIES IN THE DERMAPTERA AND ORTHOPTERA OF THE COASTAL PLAIN 

 AND PIEDMONT REGION OF THE SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES. 



BY JAMES A. G. KLH.N AM) MORGAN HEBARD. 



In the summers of 1911 and 1913, the present authors made 

 extensive collections <>t'. ami field studies in. the Dermaptera and 

 Orthoptera found in the southeastern States. About the time we 

 were able to begin laboratory work on the first season's collecting, 

 other series from the same general region were placed in our bands, 

 since which time an increasing amount of data has become available 

 bearing on the same subject. We ted the most advisable method 

 of making available to workers tin- really great amount of distribu- 

 tional, synonymic and variational information now in hand, to be 

 the publication of this single large paper. The author-' time has 

 been given more or less regularly for a period of two years to the 

 preparation of this paper and others made accessary by collections 

 referred to herein. It should he home in mind that the present paper 

 i< not a final one, hut instead a contribution based on available 

 material, although nearly all of the species known from the regions 

 studied are treated. 



In general, the geographic area covered by the collection- bere 

 studied is, the ( loastal Plain and Piedmont regions from the Potomac 

 River south to north-central (non-peninsular) Florida, wrest to the 



tern boundary of ( leorgia. In addition a fair amount of material 



from the higher elevations in Georgia, from certain localities in 

 central Florida and also from Maryland and other more northern 

 State- ha- been included. Aside from the Georgia mountain region 

 >rds, which are geographically very important, those from outside 

 the main area covered by tin paper have been included to place 

 on record the extreme geographic limits of certain species, or to cite 

 material used in the detailed discussion on the species. 



Iii the study of certain genera here treated we have found it not 

 only desirable, bul necessary, to revise completely those groups as 

 found within North America, in 'he course of winch work practically 

 all the available collection- bearing on tin' subjects have been 

 examined. These revisions consumed much time and involved some 

 travel. The collections of the United States National Museum, the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology and the Georgia State Collection 




ss PROCEEDINGS 01 CHI M U>EM1 OF [April, 



and the private series of Mr. \V. T. Davis and Prof. A. P. Morse 

 have furnished a greal amounl of importanl data, although tin' 

 greater portion of our information has been derived from our own 

 collections. The genera which have required comprehensive revis- 

 ionary study are Cariblatta, Scudderia, Arriblycorypka, Neocono- 

 cephalus, Orchdimum, Conocephalus, AUanticus, Cycloptilum, Cryp- 

 toptUum, Gryllus and MiogryUus. 



Many data have been accumulated in the course of the studies 

 lure presented, which show the necessity of revisionary work in a 

 number of other genera, but, unfortunately, either material or time 

 i- lacking a1 presenl to consider properly or thoroughly these groups; 

 we have, however, given summaries of such general conclusions as 

 we have reached in these cases, the contributions being presented as 

 al'-tract- of detailed studies we have in preparation or contempla- 

 tion, or a> accumulations of important general conclusions for the 

 use of other worker-. Such contributions will be found under 

 oU tti.c.Xi otettix, Tettigidea, Purdalophora, Hippiscus, Schistocerca, 

 Melanoplus, and the Group Anaxiphites with particular reference to 

 Anaxipha. 



The total number of specimens from the area under consideration 

 examined in the preparation of this paper is 14,402, representing 

 251 species and geographic races, belonging to 100 genera. Of these 

 species nine are here described as new, but a number of other new 

 forms in the recently studied genera were based on material compris- 

 ing portions of the series here recorded. In the text of this paper 

 cific name- and that of one genus have been placed in the 

 synonymy, the completeness of the present material, with the conse- 

 quent clearer appreciation of specific variation and character con- 

 si ancy, making the sinking of these names necessary. No synonymy 

 has been established without several careful checkings of the evidence. 

 Of the specimens examined, 7,294, or about one-half, were collected 

 by the author-, chiefly in July, August and September, 1911 and 

 1913. The other principal Bources of material, with the number of 

 specimens examined from each, are as follows: 



Collection of W. T. Davis 1,071 



a State. Collection 877 



Collection of A. P. Morse 784 



United States National Museum Collection 703 



.11 University Collection ,... 636 



EL bard Collection (other than Rehn and Hebard collecting) 611 



Academy of Natural Science- of Philadelphia Collection 



(other than Rehn and Hebard collecting) 211 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Smaller series have also been examined belonging to the North 

 Carolina Department of Agriculture, the Museum of the Brooklyn 

 Institute of Arts and Sciences, the Pennsylvania State Department 

 of Zoology and the Museum of Comparative Zoology. The neces- 

 sity of seeing the historic Scudder ( lollection in the latter institution, 

 to which three visits wen- made while preparing tin- present paper, 

 is always very pressing in work on the North American species of the 

 < hrthoptera. 



In order to reduce the length of our entries and yet give compl 



data, we have used in the present paper, as in a number of previous 



3, standard abbreviations for the sources of the material, <>r. in 



the case of the larger series which can be located by the collector's 



name we have considered the latter sufficient to place the specimens. 



No location is given for material collected by Helm and Eebard, 

 jointly or individually, as it is understood it is in the Philadelphia 

 collection-, either the Academy of Natural Sciences or the Hebard 

 Collection. Material in the collection of Mr. \V. T. Davis, of New 

 Brighton, New York, collected by himself, and that of Dr. A. P. Morse, 

 A eiiolcy, Massachusetts, collected by the same individual, has 



00 location given for it. as it is understood such material is in their 

 respective collection- unless otherwise specified. Material collected 

 by other individual- in the Davis and Morse Collections has the 



•ion indicated by the abbreviations given below. No location 

 i- given for material credited as collected by Dr. J. Chester Bradley, 

 it being understood thai is in the < leorgia State ( lollection at Atlanta 

 unless from localities in the Okeefenokee Swamp, in which case it is 

 in the collection of Cornell University. From each of 'these col- 

 lections a representation has been retained in the Philadelphia 

 collection- in return for tin- work of identification. 

 The abbreviations for the source of material used through the 



present paper are a- follow-: 



\. \. S. I'.. tor the Academy of Natural Science- of Philadelphia. 

 I'.. [., for the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Ait- and Sciences. 

 Cornell Univ., for the collection of Cornell University. 



1 )avi- < 'In., for the collection of Mr. W. 'I'. I >a\ i-. of N u Bl ighton, 



State,, Island, New York. 



-• Cln., for the Georgia - illection, located at Atlanta. 



Hebard ('In., for the Hebard Collection, in Philadelphia. 

 M. ( '. Z.. for the Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, 



Massachusetts. 

 Morse Cln., for the collection of Prof. A. I'. Mors* "> Wellesley, 



Massachusetts. 






PRO! I l DINGS OF nil \« \hi:\i\ OF 



[April, 



X. C. St. Dept. Agr., For the collection of the North Carolina State 



Departmenl of Agriculture a1 Raleigh. 

 Pa. >t. 1 tept. Zool. ( 'In., tor the collectioo of the Pennsylvania State 



Departmenl of Zoologj at Harrisburg. 



U. S. N M.. tor the United States National Museum at Washington. 



In the references to the authors as collectors they arc indicated 

 by the initials R. and II. 



LOCALITII IS. 



To facilitate the placing of localities giveu in the body of the paper 



we have tabulated alphabetically under States the localities repre- 

 sented by fair series. The elevations given have been taken from 

 Government topographical charts, official lists of elevations or our 

 own aneroid determinations. In a few cases we have been unable 

 t.> secure information on the elevation, in which case the fact is so 

 stated. In addition, localities at or very near the sea-level have no 

 elevation given. The dates given are' those for the specimens 

 examine. 1 and the location is that of the ownership of the same. 



Virginia. 



Arlington, Alexandria County, eleva- 

 tion aboul 200 feet. VII, 9, 1914. 



H. 

 Falls Church, Fairfax County, eleva- 

 tion 364 feet. Y. 25, mi:;.' (A. X. 

 Caudell.) [U. S. X. M.] 



lericksburg, Spotsylvania and 



Stafford Counties, elevation aboul 



in to 250 feet. VII, 20, 1913. 

 R & II 



Lynchburg, Campbell County, eleva- 

 tion about 700 feet. VII, 22. 1913. 

 R. a h 

 Glencarlyn, Alexandria County, eleva- 

 tion is:; feet. IV. -7. 1913. \ \ 

 lell. [u. s. X M 

 Orange, Orange County, elevation 500 



tO 800 feet. VII, 21, 1913. 



R.& II 

 Petersburg, Dinwiddie County, eleva- 

 tion about loo fe,-t. Nil, 23, 1913 

 R. & H 



North Carolina. 



Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, eleva- 

 tion 070 to 760 feet. VII, 27. 1913 

 R .v II 

 Fayetteville, Cumberland fount v. 



elevation KM) to 150 feet. I ,\ , 9, 



1911 R. A II 

 Goldsboro, Wayne County, elevation 

 110 feet. VII. 25, 1913 Et. & II 



Creensboro, Guilford County, eleva- 

 tion 900 feet. VII, 26, L9J3. 



(R. &H.) 

 Lake Waccamaw, Columbus County, 



elevation 00 feet. IX, 8, P. Ml 

 l{. A II. 

 Murphy, Cherokee Count v, elevation 



l.:. K) feet. VII, 27.. L903. (Mors* 



[Morse Cln.] 

 Raleigh, Wake County, elevation 350 



feet. Various date-, collectors and 



Collect ion.-. 



Southern Pines, Moore County, eleva- 

 tion 519 feet. XI, 190s and 1901 

 'A. II. Manee.) [X. C. Dept. Agr.j 



Tryon, Folk County, elevation 1,090 

 feet. (W. F. Fiske.) [U. S. X. M.| 



W'eldon, Halifax Count v, elevation 70 

 feet. VII, 24, 1913. (R. & IF) 



Wilmington, New Hanover Countj 

 IX, 8, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Winter Park, New Hanover Count v. 

 IX. 7, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Wrightsville, New Hanover County. 

 IX. 7. 1911. (R. & II 



Suulh ( 'ami,, in. 



Ashley Junction, Charleston County. 



VIII, 15, 1913. (R.) 

 Columbia, Richland County, elevation 



300 feet. VII, 28, L913. (R. &H.) 

 Denmark, Bamberg County, elevation 



257 feet. VIII, 15. 1903. (Morse.) 



I Morse CIn.| 




1916. 



NATURAL SI tBN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



1 i Outline map of the southeastern Doited States, showing the positions 

 the principal localities, represented by series, in the collections studied 

 in connection \\ ith this paper. 




- 



l'Ko. II DINGS OF i 111 \< \l>i:MY ill 



April. 



Florence, Florence County, elevation 

 IX, 6. 1911. ' R 4 II 

 1 barleeton County. 

 \ HI. 15, 1913 l: 

 Magnolia, Charleston County. IX, 5, 



1911 R & II. 

 Manning, Clarendon County 

 turn 91 reel \ . i"i I. ' Witmer 

 \ N S. P.] 

 Spartanburg, Spartanburg County, 

 elevation 87 VIII, 6, 1913. 



II 

 SuUivan Island, Charleston County. 



IX. 5, 1911. R. & II 

 Yemassee, Hampton ami Beaufort 

 Counties, elevation l^ '" H) feet. 

 ix. i, 1911. i: & ii 



gia. 

 Albany, Dougherty County, elevation 

 M feet. VIII, 1. I'M:;. R. & B.) 



Atlanta. Fulton County, elevation 



■•> 1,050 t'eet. Numerous dates 

 and collectors. I S Cln.] 



Augusta, Richmond County, elevation 

 14(» to 200 leer. VII, 29, 1913. 

 (R. i 



tell, < 'olih < oimtv. elevation 900 to 

 1,000 feet. VIII', 6, 1910. [Ga. 

 ' In.] 



Bainbridge, Decatur County, eleva- 

 tion lin feet. Numerous dates. 

 .1. ( !hester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.j 



Billv'.- Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 

 Charlton County. V and VI, 1912, 

 IX and XII, 1913. (J. < I 

 Bradley.) [Cornell University.] 



Black Rock Mountain. Rabun County, 

 el- ration 2,000 to 3,500 feet. V, 20 

 25, 1911. [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Brunswick, Glynn County. II, 12, 

 1911. Ga St. Cln.] VII, 30, 1911. 

 II 



Buckhead, Fulton County, elevation 

 LOOO feet. IV. 16, 1911. [G 31 

 Cln.] VIII. 2, 1913. R. & B.) 



Burton, Rabun County, elevation 

 1,800 feet. V, 21, 1911. J. Chester 

 Hrai St. Cln.] 



Chase Prairie, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Charlton County IX, 5, 1913. 



i Bradley.) [Cornell Univ.] 



Clayton, Rabun County, elevation 

 2,000 to 3,700 feer. VI (Davis.) 

 _ [Davis Cln.] 



Columbus, Muscogee County, eleva- 

 tion _'oo to 350 feet. VII, 16, 1913. 

 .1. ' Ihester Bradley. Gs 3t. Cln.] 



Cornelia, Babersham County, eleva- 

 tion L500 feet. V, 28, 1906 1 1 1 

 St. Cln. | VII, 1910. Davis.) 

 Davis Cln.] 

 Cumberland Island, Camden County. 



\ III. 31, 1911. (R. & II 

 Currahee Mountain. Stephens County, 

 elevation 1700 feet. \ IN. ... 1913. 

 II 

 Dalton, Whitfield County, elevation 

 LOOO to L,2O0 feet. VIII, 7. 1913 

 i: 

 De Witt, Mitchell County, elevation 

 cannot he ascertained. VJII, 19, 



1912. [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Fargo, Clinch County, elevation 116 

 let. VIII, 31, 1913. (J. Chester 

 Bradley. I [Cornell Univ.] 



< rroveland, Bryan < Jounty elev 

 ■ •anno! be ascertained. VII, 28, 



1913. .1. Chester Bradley. Ga. 

 St. CI,,.] 



Bebardville, Ware County, elevation 



about 150 feet. V. 15, 1915. II 

 Bomerville, Clinch County, elevation 



170 tee!. VIII. 27, 1911. R. & B.) 



Honov Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Charlton County. VI, 1912 J. 



Chester Bradley.) [Cornell Univ.] 

 [ale of Hope. Chatham County. IX, 



3, 1911. R. &B 

 Jesup. Wayne County, elevation loo 



to lJo feet. IX, 1.1911. R.&B.) 

 Jasper, Pickens Count v. elevation 



1.200 to 1,500 feet. VIII, 5, 1913. 



1; 

 Macon, Bil.l. ( ountv, elevation 350 



feet. VII, 30 to 31, 1913. (R. & H.) 

 Mixon's Hammock, Okeefeni 



Swamp, Charlton Countv. V, 16, 



1915. (B. 

 Okeefenokee Swamp (general label), 



Ware, Charlton and ( 'linch < !ounties. 



V, Pill. (J. Chester Bradley.) 



[Cornell Univ.] 

 Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, eleva- 

 tion 4.100 feet. VIII, 20, 1913. 



(J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 

 Rabun Bald, Rabun County, elevation 



LO00 to 4,800 feet. VIII, 21, I'M:; 

 .1. ( Ihester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 

 Sandfly, Chatham Countv. IX 



Kill. (P. & II 

 Savannah. Chatham County. Various 



dates, collectors and collection-. 



Sharp Mountain, Pickens County, 

 elevation 1,800 to 2,000 feet (baro- 

 metric). 1 VIII. o. 1913 i: 



'This peak i- about, nine miles to the westward of Jasper and should not be 

 confused with Sharp-top Mountain near the same place. The latter peak is 

 higher than Sharp Mountain and i- to the eastward of Jasper. Sharp-top 

 Mountain was visited by Morse in 1903. 




1910. 



NATURAL Si lKNt ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



Spring Creek, Decatur County, eleva- 

 tion about 110 feet. Nub 



Bradley. I la. 

 St. On.] 



Mountain. De Kalb County. 

 tion 1,050 to 1,686 feet. Vicin- 

 ity of same, elevation 950 to 1,050 

 . VIII. 3, 1913. H. & il 

 St. Simon's [sland, Glynn County, I\' 

 to V, l'.'ll and L912. J. I 

 Bradli St. Cln.] VIII. 30, 



1911. R. & II 

 Suwanee Creek. Lot 328, 12th Dis- 

 trict, Okeefenokee Swamp. Charlton 



County. \ 111,28, I'M 1 R.&H.) 



Tallulah Falls, Rabun County, eleva- 

 tion 1,630 feet. XIII. 1887. [U. S. 

 N. M. and Bebard Cln.] VII. lino. 

 Davis. I >avi- Cln.) 



Thomasville, Thomas County, eleva- 

 tion •_'.")() feet. Various dates. II. 

 and I: a II 



Thompson's Mills, Jackson < lounty, 

 elevation cannol be ascertained. 

 Various 'late-. II. A. Allard.) 

 - V M.| 



litton, litt County, elevation 370 

 IX. 8, 1910. Ga. St. I 



Toccoa, Stephens ( lounty, el( 

 l.D'.M feel VIII, 1. L913 !l 



Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, 

 elevation 1,600 to 2,600 feet. VII, 

 l'.Mi). (Davis.) [Davis I 



Tybee Island, Chatham County. IX. 

 2, 191 1 i: & M 



Warm Springs, Meriwether County, 

 elevation 850 to 1,200 feet. VIII, 

 9 to in. 1913. i: 



Waycross, Ware County, elevation 138 

 VIII, 11. 1903. Morse.) 

 Morse Cln.] 



\\ ilson < rap, Mountain City. Rabun 

 ( 'omit v. elevation cannot be 

 tained. VIII. 22, 1913. J. Chester 

 Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Finn < In. 



Atlantic Beach, Duval County. VIII, 



24 to 25, 1911. R. & H 

 Pernandina, Nassau County. W. II. 



Finn.) [U. S. N. M.] 

 Hastings, St. John County. Various 



dates. (A. J. Brown, i [Morse < In. 

 Indian River. Volusia and Brevard 



Counties. 1896 T. J. Priddey.) 



Hebard Cln.] 

 Jacksonville, Duval County. Various 



dates, collector- and collections. 



Examined by authors, VIII, 25, 191 1 

 Five Oak, Suwanee County, elevation 



KM» to 120 feet. Mil. 26, 1911. 

 R. & II 

 I >rtega, Duval County. IX. 6, 1913. 



D:,\ is 1 >:.\1- ( "III. ! 



Pablo Beach. Duval < lounty. IX. 5, 

 L913. (Davis.) [DavisCln.] 



South Jacksonville, Duval County. 

 IX. 7. 1913. Davis Davis Cln.] 



Si Augustine, St. John < !ountj X I 

 s. L9i i G.P.I aglehardt. B I ' 



1 )i-ti;ii;i I [ONAL Si IfMABY. 



Two importanl influences or sets of factors quite evidently control 

 the distribution of the Dermaptera and Orthoptera in the area 

 studied, these influences being the same which largely control the 

 character of the biota of any region. The two are: physiography 

 and immediate environment; temperature and climatic regions 

 life-zones. Th'' two influences -tune equally in controlling the 

 distribution of certain species, but in numerous cases one and not the 

 other is the governing factor. It seems best, therefore, to summarize 

 <>ur distributional generalizations separately under each ol the 

 main divisions. We musl always bear in mind thai a fauna is not 

 a fixture, l>ut ;i complex constantly changing and modifying, either 



through the evolution of its own living components or the i lifica- 



tion of it- <»uii limitations by readjustment of it- physical or climatic 

 barriers. Of the first grouping the effeel of immediate environment 

 i- best studied in a relatively circumscribed area and, other things 

 being equal, the occurrence of the environment is controlled by the 




94 PROCEEDINGS 01 mm. ICADEM1 OF [April, 



more broadly influencing factor of the physiography of the land. 

 The physiographic divisions we here use are those which are cor- 

 related with the distribution of groups of species of the orders studied. 



Physiographic Regions. 

 The physiographic regions we find correlated with the distribution 

 of the species found in Virginia, North Carolina. South Carolina, 

 Georgia and northern Florida are: 



a. High Appalachian summits. 



b. Lower summits of the Appalachian uplift and higher valleys of 



the same area. 



c. Piedmont. 



d. Coastal Plain. This is divisible into two sections which we have 



for convenience called the Upper Coastal and the Lower 

 Coastal. 

 > . Maritime and estuarine region. 



The>c regions may be roughly delimited as follows: 



High Appalachian Summits. — Only the highest peaks of the North 

 Carolina and Virginia mountains are embraced in this term. Very 

 few Orthoptera have been taken in this region. 



Lou.-, /• Summits ami Valleys of the Appalachian Uplift. — Comprising 

 the greater remaining) portion of the Southern Appalachian system 

 to its disappearance in Alabama, and the typical mountain valley-, 

 as opposed to The broad intrusive Piedmont valleys, are grouped 

 under this heading. The Georgia mountains, having in general a 

 lower elevation than the major portion of the North Carolina moun- 

 tain area, lack a number of the species found in the latter region, 

 and also on their lower portions shelter species more typical of the 

 Piedmont. Other species, which also occur in the Georgia mountains, 

 penetrate the valleys of the North Carolina mountains, but do not 

 frequent the main ridges in the latter State. 



Piedmont. — This division includes the area of the Piedmont pene- 

 plain, or the region from the base of the Appalachians down to the 

 fall-line, also embracing some of the larger and broader valley- 

 which penetrate into the mountainous region proper. The fall-line 

 ads in a curve from the vicinity of Washington, District of 

 Columbia, to Columbus, Georgia. 



Coastal Plain. — All the area situated below (i.e., coastward of) 

 the fall-line is embraced in this grouping. It is, from the Orthopteran 

 evidence, distinctly divisible into two portions which may for con- 

 venience be called the Upper and Lower Coastal Plain regions. 

 I fpper regioD covers all the territory of the Coastal Plain situated 




1910.! 



NATURAL 8CIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



to the north and inland of a line drawn from the vicinity of Newbern, 

 North Carolina, to the vicinity of Albany, Georgia, passing a short 

 distance inland of Wilmington, North Carolina, Charleston, South 

 Carolina, and Savannah, Georgia. The territory on the coastal side 

 of this line, except the very limited section included in the nexl 



Outline map of the southeastern Unit* I - showing the more 



naive physiographic regions here discu I The limil 



under "High Mountain Summits" and the very narrow 



I stuarine" region are n<>t indicated 




PRO< ii DINGS "i I H! M \m.\i\ OF [April, 



area, we would consider the Lower Coastal Plain, which condition 

 passes southward into peninsular Florida. The western boundary of 

 the Lower ( loastal Plain influence is not fixed as yet. 



Maritime and Estuarine Region. We include under this, barrier 

 beach and coastal sand dunes, sail marshes and the extensive fresh 

 marshes of the larger estuaries. The region is limited to a distance 

 of a few miles from the coast-line, excepl in the case of the estuaries. 



The following tabulations oi species have been made on the basis 

 of their distribution in relation to the physiographic features of the 

 region studied. 



I. General. 



Labia minor Probably introduced. Blatta orientalis (Introduced.) 



BlatteUa germanica (Introduced.) Nemobiua carolinus carolinus 



II. Appalachians (except high summits) to coast. 



Mix femorattu (Up to "».o00 feet Scudderia furcata furcata (Up to 3,800 



elevation in North Carolina.) feel in North Carolina.) 



Paraiettix cucullatus < 'onocephalus fasdatus 



OrphuleUa pelidna Up to 5,000 feet in Conocephalua brevipennia 



North Carolina.) Ellipes minuta 



Arpkia xanthopti Myrmecophila pergandi i 



Arphia sulphurea Up to 5,700 feel in GryUua assimilis (Up to 1,500 feet in 



North Carolina.) North Carolina.) 



• Carolina (Up to 4,500 feet (Ecantkua anguslipennia (Up to l.uno 



in North Carolina.) feel in North Carolina.) 



/ si nulls i I"j> to 5,700 feel (Ecanthua guadripunctatua (Up to 1,000 



in North Carolina.) feel in North Carolina.) 



III. Appalachian valleys and lower mountains in Cieorgia to coast. 



Oligonyx acudderi Trirnerotropia cUrina 



TeUigidea armata (Ecantkua tatipennia 



Truxalis brevicornia Neoxdbea bipunctata 



Amblytropidia occidentalia Phyllo8cyrtua pulchellua 

 Pardalophora pham icoptera 



IV. High Appalachian summits only. 

 oU ttis crialatua criatotua Melanoplua divt rgt na 



'i ijlnr/nlis i urn goto 



V. Mountain- only (summits and adjacent valley localities) in 

 southeastern States. 



Cryptocercua punctula Melanoplua ayhestria 



Diapheromera Carolina Melanoplua wdlahii 



Hum banco Nebconocephalua enaiger (Northward 

 Chorthippua curtipennia (Northward occurring Piedmont and Coastal.) 



occurring Piedmont and Coastal.) Conocephalus oUardi 



Pardalophora apiculata AUanticua monlicola 



Paralylotropidia beutenmueUeri CeuthophUua lapidicola 



Melon (Ecantkua nigricorni 

 Melanoplh 




191(3. 



NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



VI. Mountains and Piedmont. 



.1//'."" rpi a ferr . 



\ fdium or' ■ rustum North- 



ward occurring < loastal. 

 i 

 '. 

 Eritettix simplex Northward occurring 



stal.) 

 Orphulella speciosa Northward occur- 

 ring < loastal. 

 Chlaaltis conspersa Northward occur- 

 ring < loastal. 



iptolophns sordidus (Northward 

 occurring < loastal. 



//•-, tettix brevipennii Northward 



occurring < loastal. ) 

 . rotropis saxah 

 Melanoplus tribulus Northward '"■'■nr- 



riim < loastal. 

 Mi lanoplus dt 

 Mi lanoplus decoratus 



oplus luridus luridus (North- 

 ward occurring < !oastal, 

 Melanoplus punclulatus punctulatus 



Northward occurring < Coastal 

 A mblycorypha rotundifolia rotundi- 

 folia (Northward occurring Coastal, 

 passing al lower elevations in South- 

 eastern States toward A. r. parvi- 

 l» n ■ 

 Pterophylla cameUifolia cam* llifolia 

 Northward occurring ( loastal.) 



< 'onOCt phaluS >i> mOTOliS 



AUanticus davisi 



CeulhophUus uMeri (Northward occur- 

 ring ( loastal. I 

 • ophilus gracilipes 

 Nemobius fasciatus fasciatua (Occur- 

 ring < loastal aorthward. 

 bius rnoculotus 

 (Ecanlhus niveua (Northward occurring 

 ( loastal.) 



VII. Lower Mountain-, Piedmonl and Upper Coastal Plain. 



ur-rubrum femur- 



Nomotetlix cristatus compri 

 Chortophaga viridjfasciata (To Sullivan 



Island, South < larolina. 

 Melanoplus earnegiei To Yemassee, 



South < larohn 



Mi lanoplus 



rubrum 

 Mi lanoplus /< moratus 



imum vulgan 

 Hapithus agitator agitator 



VIII. Lower Mountain- and Piedmonl Region south to southwestern 



Georgia and adjacenl northern Florida, absent from all or 



mo-t of I larolinian and low < Georgian ( loastal. 



Diapfu rortu ra .'• I o Monti- 



cello, M"' 

 Spharagt man bol I o I 

 Florida. 



Mon- 

 llo, Florida 



i \I irianna, 

 Floi 



Melanoplus impudicu (To Spring 



( "n-.-k . < reorgia. 



phalus saltan I ■ i Thomasville 



and Spring < Ireek, 1 1 

 AUanticus atnericai Vo Tallahassee 



and River Junction, Floi 



IX. Piedmonl Region. 



aculeatum 



flvanica pensylvanica 

 I I I northwai 



/ ../<;'.; unli rin mi uhl> run 



curring < loastal norths 

 olita 



curring ( loastal northward 

 acea M 

 mly.) 



1 ri orgia, 



nil! 



1 iccurring ' 

 northward. 



nphilus I"' 

 I Occui 



i:il aorthward 



iphilus m gli I I 



tal aorthward 



s ii. ooly. 



(Ecanthust zclam Icigh, Norl Ii 



rolina, owV 



gh, Nortl 

 Una, on! 




98 



PROCEl DINGS OF THE \< \M.\1\ <>l 



April, 



\ Piedmont and c loastal Plain only to extn me northern Florida. 



plus strumas u I 'o I >'• Funiak 

 Springs, Florida. 



llml, not cus puteanus 



A naxipha exigua 



( 'yrtoxipha columbiana 



XI. Piedmont and Coastal Plain to peninsular Florida. 



: brunneipennis 

 Ischnoptt ra ih rapt Itilormis 

 IscknapU ra joknsoni 

 ItcknopU ra couloniana 

 optt ra borealis 

 .'tira bolHana (Northward only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina.) 

 I'( ri plan< ta arm rirana 



oneura texensis (Northward only 



to Tryoii. North Carolina 

 Stagmomantis en ml inn 

 Tettigidea lateralis lateralis At higher 



elevations and northward in Coastal 



Plain passing into T. I. parvipt nnis. I 

 ia alacris (Northward only to 



Newbern, North Carolina.) 

 Syrbnla adtnirabilis 

 Dichromorpha rind is 

 Romalea microptera (Northward only 



To central North Carolina. I 

 Leptysmn marginicoUis (Northward 



only to vicinity of Washington, 



District of Columbia. I 

 Melanoplus luridus keeleri At higher 



elevations and northward passing 



into M. /. luridus. i 

 Paroxya claruliyera (Local in Pied- 

 mo i 



ScudcU ria text nsis 



Amblycorypha uhleri (Coastal alone 



northward 



Microct ntrutn rhombifolium 



Neoconoa phalus robustus crt pitans 

 i Northward Coastal only and pass- 

 ing into .V. r. robustus. | 



Neoconoa phalus triops 



Orckt Urn urn aijih 



Orchelimum minor (Northward Coastal 



only. ) 



Odontoxiphidium apterum (Extending 

 as high as Sand Mountain and Blue 

 Ridge, Georgia, but only north to 

 Fayetteville, North Carolina.) 



Camptonotus carolinensis 



Gryllotalpa hexadactyla 



Tridactylus apicalis (Data poor.) 



CycloptUum squamosum 'North Caro- 

 lina northward Coastal only.) 



Nemobius ambiiiosus (North only to 

 Florence. South ( Jarolin 



AnurogryUus muticus Northward 

 Coastal only.) 



GryUus domesticus 



Miogryllus w rticalis 



Orocharis saltator (Northward Coastal 

 only.) 



XII. Piedmont and Coastal Plain in northern area of Southeastern 



States only. 



Melanoplus confusus (South to Have- 

 lock, North Carolina 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia (South to 

 Weldon, North Carolina, and Chat- 

 tanooga, Tennes8i 



.•1 mblycorypha floridana carinata (South 

 of fall line in South Carolina and 

 Georgia passing into A. f. floridana; 

 northward Coastal only. | 



Conor* phalus strictus (South to Raleigh 

 and Newbern, North Carolina.) 



Atlanticus pachymerus 'South to Have- 

 lock, North Carolina, and "South 

 Carolina.") 



Nemobius palustris (Only Coastal in 

 region, south to Wilmington, North 

 Carolina; Piedmont northward.) 



XIII. Coastal Plain to peninsular Florida. 



Labidura bidens 

 Prolabia unidt ntala 



■ opt* ra <li: 



ptera uhlt nana j North 



only to southeastern Virginia.) 



Carihlatta lutia lutm (North only to 



northern North ( 'arolina. 

 Manomt ra tenuescens (North only to 



northern North Carolin 



Neolctlis Imlli n 




1916. 



NATURAL S< IENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



Paxtlla obesa North only to eastern 

 North Carolin 



TeUigidea prorsa To northern Florida. > 



Radinotatum br< wjh r»i • 



North only to Yemassee, South 

 Carolina; Btraggler into Piedmont in 

 ( reorgia. I 



ocephaius elegans (Maritime only 

 northward.) 



Spkaragemon cotton wyomingianum 



Scirtetica marmorata picta In northern 

 North Carolina passing into S. m. 

 marmorata. 



Psinidia fenestralis 



- ■ tocerca obscura North to Mary- 

 land; straggler in Piedmont. 



toa rca alutacea In Tenni - 

 drainage in western North ' 

 lina. I 



tocerca damnifica calidior Passing 

 at fall line anil north of North < 'aro- 

 lina into S. 'I- damnifica. 



Itix pusHlus i North only to North 

 Carolina; straggler into Piedmonl 

 m ( reorgia. 



■'ix floridt nsis North only 

 Augusta, Georgia; straggler in 

 Piedmonl in ( reorgia. > 



Melanoplus decani* Limited distribu- 

 tion in North Carolina. 



Melanoplus australis (Limited distri- 

 bution in South ( 'arolina ami 

 ( Georgia. 



M danoplus ottenuotus (Limited distri- 

 bution, Georgia to North Carolina.) 

 Welanoplua hebardi (Limited distribu- 

 tion m Georgia. 



Melanoplus nubUus Limited distribu- 

 tion in North < 'arolina. 



"Melanoplus minis (Limited < li-t nr >u- 



tion in North ( 'arolina 



Melanoplus stegocercus Limited dis- 

 tribution in ' reorgia 



Melanoplus scapularis Limited distri- 

 bution in < reorgia. 



Melanop Limited < i i- « ri- 



bution in North < 'arolina : 1 1 1 * 1 



Melanoplus querm us I Limited distribu- 

 tion in Georgia. 



Melanoplus clypeatus (Limited distri- 

 bution in ( leorgia. 



Melanoplus punclulatus arl ■ ■ Pass- 

 ing in Georgia Piedmont and north- 

 ward in Coastal Plain into M. p. 

 punctulatus. I 



Paroxya aiiantica atlantica 



Arethaea phalangium North only to 

 Augusta, < leorgia. 



Scudaeria cuneata North only to 

 Raleigh, North ( 'arolina 



Symmetromeura modesta North only 

 to Raleigh, North ( 'arolina 



Plerophylla camellifolia intermedia 

 Passing in Georgia Piedmont and 

 northward in Coastal Plain into 

 /'. r. camellifolia. i 



jocorypha uncinala 'North only to 

 Raleigh, North < 'arolina 



Neoconocephahu exiliscai Strag- 



gler in < leorgia Piedmont from Upper 

 Coastal Plain. 



.\ i oconoa phalus caucU Uianus 

 \ , oconoa phalus palustris 



Orcfu 1 1 in a in glabt rrimum 



Orchelimum laticauda (Straggler in 



< reorgia Piedmont . i 

 Orcfu limum militari 



Orchelimum superbum (Virginia and 

 New Jersey only, i 



Conocephalus stictornerus South only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina 



CryptoptUum antiUarum (North only to 

 Uamance County. North Carolina.) 



CryptoptUum trigonipalpum North 

 onry to Petersburg. Virginia; strag- 

 gler in ( reorgia Piedmont 



Vemobius fasciatus tocius North only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina, north- 

 ward and in southern Piedmonl 

 passing into .V. /. fascial 

 \ . mobius '■'/'" nsis cull, i. 



Anaxipha pulicaria North only to 



Raleigh, North < 'arolina 



Falcicula hebardi Straggler in North 



< 'arolina Piedmi 



XIV. Lower Coastal Plain in the Carolina-. Georgia and extreme 



northern Florida. 



Passing 

 northward and higher into 

 compresstis and southward into \ i 

 floridan • 



ill us fun orgia and 



I torida only 



ually intergrading northward and 

 higher into S. ■ i i 



Orchelimum bradleyi (North to Wil- 

 mington, Nort h < !arolii 

 Allanticus dorsalis North to "South 



olina 

 Atlantii < leorgia and 



•la i>nl\ 



Scapt* ' ilyO 



Sin pi. fria only. I 



\i mobius pa 



Mil!' 



\ 




LOO 



PRO< i EDINGS "I i in: \< \i»i:\n 01 



[April, 



XV. Lower ( loastal Plain into peninsular Florida. 



■ (i nigricoUia I Nol north of 



Uinoptera (liaphiiuii (Not north of 



idana (Nol north of 

 guv 

 planeta aiutralaaiat (Nol north of 

 Florida. I 

 planeta brunnea Nol north of 

 _ 



irinamenaii (Nol north 

 I lorida. 



\tiata griata (North to South Caro- 

 lina.) 



.•rutin graminis (Nol north of 

 ( reorgia. ' 

 Ani&omorpha bupresioidea (North to 



South Carolina. 

 Paroiettix rugosus (Not north of 

 _ 



spirilla (Nol north of 

 i_ r ia. ) 

 iria bivittata 

 Arphia granulate 



Chortophaga auatralior (North to 

 Savannah, ( Seorgia.) 



iragemon crepitana (Nol north of 

 ( reorgia. ' 



•is vitn ipennis 

 noacirtetea puaillua (Nol north of 

 rgia.) 



Melanoplua rotundipennia (Not north 

 of ( reorgia. i 



MeUmoplua /< mur-ruhrum propinquua 

 (Passing at the Georgia and South 

 Carolina fall line into M. f. femur- 

 rubrum; nol typical north of Wil- 

 mington, Noi id < larolina.) 



Apti nopedeaaptu narioidea aphenarioidt s 

 i Nol north of < leorgia, i 



Aptenopedea aptera (Not north of 

 ( reorgia. 



Hilar, phalux siihaplrrus (North to 

 South ( 'arolina. I 



Belocephalua daviai (Not north of 



( reorgia. ' 

 Neoconocepholua velox (Not north of 



( reorgia. i 

 Atlanticus gibboaua (Straggler into 



( reorgia Piedmont. I 



Cevihophilua latibuli (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Scapteriacus abbreviatua (Nol north of 



Georgia. ) 

 Ana.ripha vittata (Nol north of 



Georgia. I 

 Ila pith us agitator quadratua (Inland 



and northward passing into //. a, 



agitator.) 

 Hap/thus brevipennis (Nol north of 



( leorgia.) 



XVI. Maritime and Estuarine Element. 



.1 niaolabia maritima 

 \l '. miria intertexta 



■ I, Ua ulnar, a 



OrphiUella halophila (Southern Flor- 

 _ ida.) 

 Trim, rotropia marilima 



Orchl li in inn riHiriiinuiii 



Orcht 1 1 in ii iii j'ul ir iii iii iii 

 Conocephnlus aigialus 

 Cmmr, phalua nigropleuroides 

 C otocephalus spartince 



In table II, we have given as a matter of information the elevation 

 of the upper limit of distribution, where this is exactly known. 

 Table III covers forms occurring in the larger Appalachian valleys, 

 ir north a^ North Carolina or the lower mountains in Georgia, 

 or both, to the coast, exclusive of the Maritime and Estuarine 

 Region. In table V appear species which considerably modify their 

 physiographic distribution elsewhere in the eastern United States, 

 and this fact is there and in subsequent tables, indicated in paren- 

 theses. In table VIII. we have endeavored to express a peculiar 

 typo of distribution: one covering the lower mountains and Piedmont 

 and, although absent from mosl or all of the Coastal Plain, extend- 

 ing south into southwestern Georgia or even into the adjacent 

 portion of northern Florida. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



The more interesting generalizations drawn from the physiographic 

 summaries are the following. Northward numerous species, charac- 

 teristic of the Piedmont in the area here treated, pass to the Coastal 

 Plain of that region, frequently, or rather generally, leaving the 

 Piedmont. The explanation of this is apparently temperature 

 control and the distribution is typical of the Upper Austral life-zone. 

 Toward the southern end of the Piedmont region numerous forms. 

 characteristic of this section in the Carolinas, enter the lower moun- 

 tain-, doubtless as valley intrusions; this also ran be explained by 

 temperature control and is zonal in character. Along the coastal 

 side of the Piedmont in Georgia, a number of Coastal Plain species 

 penetrate the Piedmont for considerable distances to points such 

 as Warm Springs, vicinity of Stone Mountain, Thompson's Mills, 

 ioa and even to suitable situations on the slopes of Currahee 

 Mountain, an outlying knot, near Toccoa. This is quite marked 

 in the case of Warm Springs, which has -even species of this category 

 occurring there.- The extending influence of the larger river valleys, 

 such as the Savannah. Oconee, Ocmulgee, Flint and Chattahoochee, 

 i- doubtless responsible for these intrusions, for such they are is 

 evidenced by the known distribution of the species elsewhere and the 

 generic habitat. The division of the Coastal Plain into two areas 

 has abundant evidence in it- favor in the Orthoptera, as the tabula- 

 tions -how. It i- significant also thai quite a few of the form- 

 do not reach into peninsular Florida. Further studies on the dis- 

 tribution of central Florida form- of the order- will doubtless throw 



much additional light on the fixity of these limitation-. It i- possible 

 that a lack of material may be partly responsible for the apparent 



restriction of tin—- ranges. In the case of the divisions of the « loastal 



Plain, our material i- sufficiently full to -how the correlations very 



cl.arly. 



/. • /•■■ 



The life Zone- repp -' '1 1 1 e, 1 ill the ;i|V;, -tlldied are the following! 



'/. Boreal or < 'anadian. 



/-. Transition or Alleghanian. 



( . I pper Au-tral or < arolinian. 



<l. Lower Au-tral or Au-t roriparian. 



Basic Au-tral or Sabalian. 



1 1., se we: CariblaUa o Thompson's Mills . Ra I 



itettix 

 \ o on ( urr -i!,. • Mounl ■ fptoplilum 



dso vnii I luntain 



•For remarks <>n this Bone see p. I'M 

 8 




KU 



PROCEEDING 01 I ill. \. \i»i.mv oi 



April, 



^JO«^j OtJ^/svtJ 



A'Otre.r Cfus/?-^/ 



F,g ' Jh7l/ri, f .!-i, M .' i"fi , , P "'' *" ^!""-'« I " U^ted States, 8ho wing the extent of 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



The zones may be briefly outlined as follows: 4 



Boreal or Canadian Zone. — This zone occupies the summits of the 

 higher mountains in North Carolina and Virginia, such as the Black 

 Mountains, Roan Mountain, Grandfather Mountain, Mt. Pisgah, 

 Balsam Mountains, etc. This is the area of balsam forests within 

 the territory studied. We do not feel that the zone has been suf- 

 ficiently studied to consider the total number of species reported 

 from it as a fair index of the Orthoptera therein. 



Transition or AUeghanian Zone- This zone comprises all the truly 

 mountainous country below the Boreal summits; in Georgia, how- 

 ever, being largely restricted to the elevations greater than 1,500 

 feet. Slope exposure is largely responsible for the presence or 

 absence of this element near it- upper and lower margin-. In North 

 Carolina, large valleys of tributary streams of the Tennessee carry 

 tongues of the Upper Austral for considerable distances into the 

 otherwise Bolidly Transition country. The same appears to be true 

 to a lesser degree in the Transition area of ( ieorgia, which is in large 

 part much tinctured with Upper Austral elements. 



Upper Austral or Carolinian. The area comprised in this zone 

 extends from the lower border of the Transition zone*down to a line 

 roughly drawn from a Bhorl distance up stream of the mouth of the 

 Potomac River, to Weldon, North Carolina, to Raleigh and Char- 

 . North Carolina, traversing transversely the area between 

 Spartanburg and Columbia, South Carolina r and crossing the State 

 of Georgia in a southwesterly direction to the vicinity of Warm 

 Springs, Georgia, then curving northwest into Alabama. As stated 

 above, pronounced valley intrusions of this fauna enter western 

 North Carolina from the Tennessee Valley, while in Georgia it 

 apparently pushes it- way well into and even up the lower slopes 

 «.f the mountain-, apparently in -harp competition with the 

 Transitions form- occurring in the same region. The two elements 

 will l»e governed in their distribution, at one of their points 

 of contact, by -lope exposure; al another, by the normal cover or 

 by the burning-over of the land. A- we have discussed above 

 under Physiography, a number of distinctly Lower Austral forms 

 occur within normally Upper Austral areas, at localities such as 

 ( lurrahee Mountain. Toccoa, vicinity of Stone Mountain and Thomp- 

 son's Mill-, and these extensions probably are, as suggested there, 

 due to the extending influence of large river valley-, which provide 



1 For ;i careful presentation <<\ the life conea of North Carolina, -■•■ Br • 



WIV pp 19 to 27, 1913 




104 PBOCBBDDfOa OF TEX A.CADEM1 OF [April. 



avenues of entrance to suitable environments in a region in general 

 characterized by a different fauna. The facl thai these extensions 

 .: only, as far as known, at a few Localities gives support to this 

 anation. 



Lower Austral or Austroriparian. — This Bone covers the area 

 situated below (i.e., in elevation) the Upper Austral, down to a line 

 extending from the southern portion of Pamlico Sound, North 

 Carolina, to Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina, to Yemassee, South 

 Carolina, then swinging in a curve to Albany, Georgia, and the 

 Chattahoochee River wesl of the last-mentioned locality. A few 

 forms, which we would consider more representative of the Upper 

 Austral zone, occur as stragglers within this area at localities such 

 roldsboro and Fayetteville, North Carolina, Sumter and Flor- 

 ence South Carolina, Augusta and Macon, Georgia. It is possible 

 that future work may -how these forms to be equally characteristic 

 of the Lower Austral; a very questionable possibility to our mind- 

 In these cases, tin interdigitation which we have mentioned as 

 occurring at the upper limit of the Lower Austral is probably repeated 

 in the reverse direction, but physiographic control features are 

 probably responsible for these intrusions. 



Basic Austral or Sabalian. — The present zone, which is co-extensive 

 with the physiographic area called Lower Coastal by us, we find is 

 so decidedly characterized by a considerable number of species, 

 which extend southward to southern or at least to central or north- 

 central Florida, that we have been compelled to give it a name. 

 We have found no term in the literature which we could use, so we 

 here propose the name Sabalian. The name has been derived from 

 the technical name of the cabbage palmetto (Sabal palmetto), 

 which i- probably the most striking tree of the region named, and 

 whose distribution is co-extensive with that area. 



The Sabalian zone is characterized by at least six species, outside 

 of those occurring only in central and southern Florida, which are 

 also West Indian in distribution or extremely close to West Indian 

 species. 



The zone extends from the coast-line inland to the lower boundary 

 of the Lower Austral, given above in defining that region, north to 

 the region of Pamlico Sound and south into Florida. It is narrow 

 in the Carolinas, but becomes broad in Georgia and its exact extent 

 to the westward remains to be worked out. The exact line where 

 this Bame influence gives way to the Tropical in southern Florida 

 has not been critically mapped, owing to the need of more information 




1910. 



NATURAL S< I KM ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



11).-. 



from the central and south-central portions of the peninsula. The 

 information from the Tropical area of southern Florida is relatively 

 full. 



The zonal distribution of the specie- t r» -:it . ■< 1 in the present paper 

 is tabulated below. In some cases it is known that the species, in 

 certain regions of North America, occur in zones other than those 

 here checked, but, unless this has a distinct bearing on the possible 

 occurrence of the species in the same zone in the region here >tudied, 

 we have not indicated its presence other than as found in the south- 

 ra States. In a feu cases where species will in all probability 

 be found in a certain zone in the southeastern State-, judging by 

 the analogy of other regions, or where the form is found in two 

 zones, but by defect of the record i> not known from one situated 

 between these two. we have inserted a check for that life zone with 

 a brief qualification. 



Tran-i- I i>per Lower 



DEKMAl'TEHA. Boreal. tion. Austral. Austral. Sabalian. 



LABIDURIDiE 



l (pari l 



abii marilima 1 1 



Labidura bideru 1 1 



LABIID^E. 



\'<i>t<is brunm ipennis 1 1 1 



I.nhtu minor [ntroduced-range nearly general. 



Prolabia uta<i> ntata 1 1 



FORFICULIDuE. 



Doru aeuleatum 1 



ORTHOPTERA. 



BLATTID.3E. 



■ i4i m ill ropeltifo 1 1 



,ii> rn nigncoUit 



:>ii ra johntoni 1 1 l 



fit rn j>. pi nsylvanica 1 1 



a 1 part 



>pU rn couloniana 1 I 1 



•fiti m u. uhli riana. 1 



rpU m n fult ttCi Tit . 



,,/. m borealia ' 



-.it' m liulhnrm I 1 1 



l>ti m iruolUa 1 



Blatteua germanica Introd eral. 



• i}>ti m diaphana 

 CarMatta I. Ixdea I 



olit floridana ' 



lUnHn orientalu [ntrodua d • ral 



/'i riplaneta mm ricana 1 ' 



I'irip 1 




UHi 



PRO( li DINGS OF THE a< \i>l\n OF 



[April, 



Boreal 

 PeripUmeta brunm a 

 Pycnoacel <c> Surinam* ■ 

 Cnoritonettra texenaia 

 Cryptocercxu punctulaiua ... 



MANTID.E. 



SUngmomantia Carolina 



Gonatiata griaea 



Oligonyx scudderi 



rotia graminia 



PHASMID^. 



Diapheromt ra femorata 

 Manonu ra U nueacena 

 A niaomorpha bupreatoidt a 

 Anisomorphafi rruginea. 



ACRIDID^l. 



Nomotettix a criatatua 1 



Nomotettix c. compreaaua 



Nomotettix c. areuotua 



Acrydium a. arenosum 



Acrydium a. anguatum 



Acrydium omnium 



Neotettix proavua 



Uixf( morotus 



.V> otettix boUt ri 



Paratettii rugosus 



ParaMtix cucuUatus 



Paxitta obt so 



Tettigidea proraa 



Tettiguli a spicata 



Tettigidea I. lateralis 



Tettigidea armata 



Radinotatum b. brevipennt 



Truxalia brevicornis 



Mermiria alacria — 

 Mermiria intertexta 



Mermiria bu ittata 



Syrbula admirdbUis 



Eritettix simplex - 

 Amblytropidia occidentalis. 



Orphuleua pelidna 



Orphnb lln olivacea 



OrphuUUn 8pecioaa 



Dvchromorpna i iridis 



Clinocephalv 



ChloeaUii 1 



Chorthippus curtipennia 1 



Arphia xanthoptera 



Arphia granutata 



Arphia aulphurea 



Chortophaga nridifaaciata 



Chortophaga atiatralior 



Encoptoloph.ua sordidua 



Pordolophora phaenicoptera 



Hippiacua rugosus 



Dissosteira Carolina 



1 (part) 



1 



1 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



1 (part) 



(part) 



(part) 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



10; 



Boreal. 



Spharagemon arepita n& 



Spharay* hum bolli 



Spharagemon collare wyo- 



mingianum 



Sdrtetica marmorata picta , 



Psin idia ft n • st rails 



Trimerotropis maritirna 



Trimerotropis citrina 



Trimerotropis saxatUis 



i roptera 



• Ireipennia 



Leptysma marginicoUis 



tmscura 



locerca alutacea 



Schistocerca tu rialis.. 

 Schistoa rca </. damnij 



a rca •!. calidior 



• •> 8 pusHlus 

 i ilivacea 



Eotettis pusittus 



Eotettu 



Hesperi'!> Uix florid* run 



otettix >>. pratensis 

 llotropidia '- 



■n 



lis 

 M> lanoplus d* a plus 

 Mi lanoplus dt corns 

 Mi lanoplus australis 

 Melanoplus nth nuaius 

 Mi lanoplus ht bardi 

 Mi lanoplus nubilus 



rplus tribulus 

 Mi lanoplus d* vius 



>lpu ■ -/. coratut 

 Mi lanoplus rolundip* nnis 



■ ■< i 

 Mt In i>n pi us minis 

 Melanoplus scapularis 



Mi laru ■ iris 



Mi lanoplu cai m git i 

 Mt lanoplu -•. tcudden 

 Melanoplus walshii 



Mi lanoplus qiu rru u i 



Mi lanopl ■ 1 



Melanoplus f femur-ruf 



brum 1 



Mi lanoplus i. pn 



iphiH impudit • 



im/iii/ir 



/. ki • !• n 



V- \noplus furcaius 



i .a a/ us 



Transi- 

 tion. 



L'pper 



Austral. 



Lower 



Austral. 



1 (part) 1 part) 

 1 



1 



1 



1 (part) 



1 



1 



1 

 1 

 1 



1 parti 

 1 



1 (location provisional) 

 1 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 

 l part) 



1 



l 



1 



1 



l (part 



1 part 

 1 part 



Sabalian. 



(part) 



(part) 



1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 



1 (part) 



l (part) 



I pari 



I part 



l 



1 part 



1 (part) 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 

 1 part | 



1 



I part- 



I 



1 

 1 




JUS 



111. \< M)KMV ill 



[April, 



Burial. 



Melanoplua p. punctulatut 

 M< lanoplut p. a ' 

 Paroxya a. atlantica 

 Paroxya davuligera 

 Aptenopedet s. spnenarir 



oidt a 

 ApUnopedt a a/>ti ro 



TETTIGONIID^J. 



Arethoea phalangium 

 StUpnochlora marginella . 

 Scudderia c. curvicaudo-c. 



latiramla 



Scuddi ria r. laticauda 

 Scuddi ria h n nsis 



Scudderia f. furcata 



Scudd* rm cuneata 

 SymmetropU urn modesta 

 A mblycorypha oblongifolia. 

 A mblycorypha f. fiondana 

 A mblycorypha f. carinata 

 Amblycorypha uhh ri 

 Amblycorypha r. rotwtdir 



i 

 Amblycorypha r. r.-r. par- 



rus 



Mxcrocentrum rhombifo- 



liitm 

 Micron ntrwn n lint rw 

 PterophyUa c. cameUifotia . 

 PterophyUac. intermedia 

 Belocephahu svbapterus . ... 



Belocephalus davisi 



Pyrgocorypfta u adnata 



Neoconocephalus exilis- 



orus .. - ■ 



Seocotiocephalus robustus 



crepitant 



Neoconocephalus caudell- 



ianus 



■ ocephahu velox 



Neoconoct phalus retusus 



■ncephalus triops 



Homorocoryphus malivo- 



lans 



Orchelimum agile 



Orchelimum glaberrimum 

 Orchelimum i ulgan 



( Irrh* Urn >i m bit ten mla 



Orchelimum minor 



Orchelimum condnnum 



< irrhilimum fidicinium 



Orchelimum million 

 Orchelimum bradU y\ 

 Orchelimum • \ipt rbum 

 Conoct phalui allardi 

 Conor t fihal u .-■ f. fa Bcia tus I 



. p hnl u, bra ipt i • 

 Conocepfinlux tumoral i 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



L09 




1H» PBO< BBDINQS OF THB \< IDElil OF [April. 



Physiographic and Zonal Factors Compared. 



When the physiographic and zonal correlations are contrasted, 

 we find that in Virginia the two factors are largely governed by the 

 same boundaries, the Lower Austral alone not extending up the 

 valley of the Potomac as far as the fall-line, which is the Piedmont- 

 Upper Coastal Plain line. In North Carolina, the increased tem- 

 perature effect of lower latitudes is evident, as the upper line of the 

 Lower Austral, after following the fall-line, crosses it and ascends 

 to higher country, this tendency increasing in Georgia, where the 

 upper boundary of the same zone is in places as high as a thousand 

 feet above sea level. Conversely, this crossing of the physiographic 

 boundaries by zonal boundaries is found to the northward of the 

 area hen- treated, where the entire Coastal Plain section of New 

 Jersey and all or at least the greater portion of the Coastal Plain 

 eastern peninsula of Virginia, Maryland and Delaware, is Upper 

 Austral. It has been found in the Middle Atlantic States that many 

 Upper Austral species are limited to southern New Jersey, not 

 occurring above the fall-line. This restriction is probably due to 

 the fact that the southern portion of New Jersey has a more equable 

 winter climate (and consequently a higher sum total annual tem- 

 perature) than the Piedmont of Pennsylvania, an Upper Austral 

 region. There is also in southern New Jersey an extension of certain 

 elsewhere Lower Austral species, although in the great majority of 

 the forms the region is clearly Carolinian. The control governing 

 the distribution of these species is probably environment, as the 

 sands and gravels of southern New Jersey are in general similar to 

 those of the Coastal Plain to the south. 



Origin of the Orthopterous Fauna of the Southeastern States. 



We have made some tabulations bearing on the probable origin 




191(3. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



of the Orthopterous fauna of the region studied. It is essential, 

 however, for a proper understanding of the subject, to have similar 

 data on the fauna of the Gulf Coast and Texas, in order to make 

 definite or conclusive generalizations. The material from which 

 such data can be obtained is now available, but it will be some years 

 before our studies will permit us to make the desired tabulations. 

 In consequence any expressions on the question of origin would be 

 premature and certainly require amplification, if not revision, 

 within a relatively short time, as the Gulf Coast can be expected to 

 supply much of the really vital information on origin and dispersal. 

 We propose, therefore, to discuss :it a later date, a- a whole, the 

 information on this subject for the Southern States. 



Systematic Treatmknt <>f Spe< n.-. 

 DERMAPTERA. 



LABIDURID^E. 



Ani9olabis annulipes (Lucas). 



North Carolina. Macon, N II 30-31, 1913, B & II 



19 4 juv 9 

 Raleigh, XL 25, 1904, C Pinkus), Albany, till, 1, 1913, I:. v II. 19. 



...' s y - ,mi ,u i h Bainbndge, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



Wnghtsville, IX, 7, 1911, R. A H.), MiMv -.. l>]:iUll VI 12, 1912, .1 C 



1 • ' • Bradley . I i 



, Kna St. Mary-. II. 6 U, IV. IT, 1896 



Bangs ,29, [Hebard « i 

 Camden. II. 15 to 25, I \ [M I Z 

 Columbia, VII. 28, 1913, R & H Florida. 



1 • ; VI11 ' 1,; - 1 '"' :: * '" M " : - ■ Atlantic Beach, VIII. 25, 1911, R a 



II l . 

 Charleston, 19, [M. C. Z.J. Jacksonville, T J. Priddey), l \ 



Georaia ' • ' [Hebard Cln.]; III. L900, i ', 



[U. S. N. M.). 

 Augusta, VII. 29, I'M.;. R a II . [ndian River, 1896, T. J. Priddey . 

 1 pr. 19, [Hebard Cln.J. 



\\ v have before ua ;i male specimen taken by the -enior author 

 at Philadelphia, on August 9, 1902, in the back yard <>f the Academy; 

 there is alsoa female from Washington, District of Columbia, in tie- 

 National Museum without further data. The species is doubtless 

 widely distributed by commerce; it has in recent years been found 

 to bavi ;ui extensive distribution throughout tin- Lower Austral and 

 Subtropical Zones of the southeastern United Stat< 



At two localities the species was found under -ilmi-. on oak 

 (Albany) and sweet gum (Augusta). The majority of the above 

 m<l under debris on the ground. 




112 



EEDINGS 01 I HE V \1H.\IV OF 



[April, 



Anisolabis maritima ' 



Virginia. 

 M 2 juv. v , [U. S. N. 



M 



Vorih Carolina, 

 \< iwbern, \. s. Bickmore . l ". 

 M C Z 



§ .'A Carolina. 



Charleston, l , . [M. ('. Z.]. 



Georgia. 

 St. Simon's [stand, IV v. 1911-12, 

 C. Bradley), 3 9, 1 juv. 9; 

 VIII. :•!(). I'M i. I;. & H.), l juv. 9. 



Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



- Uh Carolina. 



No further -lata. (A. Agassiz), 1 o\ 

 [M. C.Z.J. 



Georgia. 



Brunswick, V. 2, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 

 1 \19. 



Bainbridge, IX-X. 1910. (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 d", 6 9, 3 juv. 9. 



Florida. 

 Fernandina, I W. II. Finn I, 1 juv. . . 



I 8. N. M.|. 

 Jacksonville, I . .1. Pridde\ i, 1 iuv. t , 



Hebard Cln.]. 

 St. Augustine, (< '. W. Johnsorj I I 



l juv. '. Morse < 'In. I. 

 I Irescenl City, I juv. , . [U. S. X. M.j. 

 Cedar Keys, l juv. 9, [U. S. X M 

 Indian River, 1896, ;T. .1 Priddey), 



1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-22. 1911, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 juv. 9 ; VIII, - 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley), I d\ 2 9 . 



Florida. 



St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 juv. 

 9, [Morse Cln.]. 



LABIID^. 



Vostox brunneipennis (Serville). 



Maryland. 

 Baltimore, 1 9, [M. C. Z.]. 



North Carolina. 



Tryon, (W. 1 I iske), 1 <?, [U. S. 



Georgia. 



X. M.]. 



Atlanta, VIII, 28, IX, 5, 1910. _' >, 



1 9, [Ga. State Cln.]. 

 ( >keefenokee Swamp, V, 9, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



Florida. 



St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson i, 2 9, 



[Morse Cln.]. 



[iviorse ^in.j. 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. Palatka, II, 1868, 1 d\ 1 juv. 9 , [M. 

 Davis), 1 cf.. C. Z.] 



re Spring. 1 juv. 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. Onnond, 19,1 juv. 9 , |M. C. Z.j 



tiiiah. U . 1 Fiske), 1 if, [U. S. Enterprise, V, 17, 1 9 , [XT. S. X. M 



nnali. 

 X. M 



The Qormal type in males of this species is one which has a single 

 inner tooth situated at the end of the proximal third of the forceps; 

 one of the males from Atlanta has the inner enlargement of the 

 forceps continued to a point a little distad of the middle, terminating 

 there in a double tooth. At Tryon and Savannah the species was 

 found on oak. 



Labia minor (Liuneus). 



Atlanta, Georgia, XI, 5, 1910,2 cf,[Ga. 



: ite Cln. I. 



Unadilla, Ga., VI, 25, 1910, (J C 

 Bradley), 1 9. 




1916. NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Prolabia unidentata (Beauvais). 



North Carolina. Brunswick, II. 12. 1911, 1 ". I . 



Wilmington, IX. 8, 1911, K. & II . l J uv ■ '• 3 " : VIII, 



I - 30, 1911, II . 1 ' . 



.' tsville, IX, 7. 1911, R. & B Florida 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, R. & Jacksonville, XI. :;. 1911, W. T. 

 H ,5 ', 19, 1 }U\ Davis .19. 



Geo Ap^aJachicola, (Tlmxtcn. 1 \ M. 



Vienna. VI. 30, 19. 1 juv. 9, [Ga. Volusia County, II. L0, 1869 J \ 



In.]. Allen . I \2 . . Scudder Cln.]. 



Spring < reek, \l. 1911, J. < . Brad- i,„ii :in Rj ver i v , r ,. (T. J. Priddey), 



1 : VIII. 26 28, L913, .1 I , •. 3 . . Hebard Cln.]. 



R .;™% »J VI .„,., . r ,. , Silver Springs, G P. Englehardl . 

 Billv - Island, \ I. 1912, .1. < . Brad- j -* g | 



ley .1 .•"..-' juv. 9; IX, 1-5, 



1913, J. C. Bradley . 1 \ 1 



1 juv 



In the series of males recorded above, we find nine having the 

 forceps with inner teeth both proximad and distad, three having 

 l>ut one arm furnished with a proximal and do distal teeth, two 

 having both arms furnished with proximal but with do distal teeth 

 and one having no teeth whatever, the forceps of this latter specimen, 

 which is from Wilmington, being much like those of the female in 

 contour and curvature bu1 much more -lender. 



The previous North Carolina record- for the species are Raleigh 

 and Boardman, these being the most northern localities al which 

 it has been found. Though usually found under the hark of pine 

 logs, the series from Lake Waccamaw was found under the hark of a 

 prostrate, decaying sweel gum trunk. 



FORFICULID^J. 

 Doru aculeatum 



North Carolina. Austell, VIII, 6, 1910, 1 Ga State 



nton, VII, 20, 1903, \ P ''"I- 



Morse ,19,3 ju\ Sllv ' r H" 5 ' N '"• "' , '" : ' ' 



Bradley I, 19. 



Atlanta, VII, 1 



\l L909, w l D Buckhead, IV, 16, 1911, I 



1 and 2 other adults, damaged 1 1 



Bur:.' V, 21, 1911, 1,800 feet ' I State Cln.]; VIII, 2, 1913, I: a II . 



1 1 . . 1 jui 



The only specimens we have taken (Buckhead) were beaten from 

 p .vth of high weeds growing along a wel depression. 



i: bn .11W Hebard, \II. pp 93 to 95, figs 6 ind 7. 



191 1 




114 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi \. \m:\i\ OF [April, 



ORTHOPTERA. 



BLATTID^E. 

 Ischnoptera deropeltiformii (Brunner). 



S .;/, Carolina. Macon, VII, 30-31, L913, R & II. i. 



1 9 

 abur 8> N111 ' "• 1913, (H.), Warm Springs, 850-1,200 ft., VIII, 



3 juv 



9-10, L913. R.), 1 9. 



'•""■ Si. Simon'a Man. I. VI, 8, LOU, 1 cT; 



Clayton, 2,000 fl V, 18 26, 1911. .I.e. [Ga. BtateCln.]; IV. 22-V, 12, I'M i. 



BradKv 2 \ I. L909, (W. T. (J.C.Bradley),] '. 



Davia '. l . l 9. Bebardville, V, L5, 1915, II I, 19. 

 Cornelia. V, 28, 1906, 1 \ [Ga. 

 In.]. 



The males of this species show considerable variation in size, 

 certain individuals examined since the previous minimum measure- 

 ments were given by us fl being considerably smaller than those 

 r'v> d. The two smallest males seen measure as follows: 



Length Length Greatesl 

 of of width of 



body, pronotum. pronotum. 

 '■' ■ rt, Fla 12.2 mm. 3.2 nun. 4.0 mm. 



Sl Simon's Island, Ga 11.8 " 3.2 " 4.1 " 



From an examination of fift\ specimens of the species, the speci- 

 men.- of minimum size appear to be found only in Florida and the 

 coastal region of ( leorgia, the individuals from higher elevations being 

 uniformly larger. Specimens of similar size to those found in the 

 more elevated regions of Georgia, Virginia and the Carolinas occur, 

 however, in the area where the minimum individuals are found. 

 All of the present adult individuals have pale femora. 



The above specimens taken by us were found under dead oak 

 leaves Macon), running on the ground in pine and oak wood- | Warm 

 Springs) and under debris in garden (Hebardville). 



Ischnoptera nigricollis walker. # 



Georgia. Florida. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23. 1911, (J. C. Sanford, (S. B. Fraserj, 2 d\ [Hebard 

 Bradley ,19. Cln.]. 



The exact relationship of this form to /. deropeltiformis is still 

 Bomewhat problematical. It seems possible that it may be a "salta- 

 tion" from the deropellifortnia stock, developing in Florida and 

 .-out hern ( ieorgia, but apparently nowhere else. Whatever the origin 

 of nigricollis may be, its distinctive coloration almost always permits 

 it^ ready recognition. 



•Proc. Acad. Nat. 6k i. Phila., 1910, p. 415, (1910). 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11") 



The Spring Creek record is the first exact one for the species from 

 Georgia. 



Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn. 



Virginia. '> ia - 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 191o. R. & Rabun County, VII, 1910, W. T. 

 H.j, 1 Davis), 2 9. 



Atlanta, VI. 23, 1910, 1 ?, [Ga. 



Alabama. state Cln.]. 



Pvriton. ("lav County, (H. G. Huh- St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 

 bard), l _-\ [U. S. N. M.]. R. & II , 19. 



The remarks previously made by us 7 on the apparent decr< 

 in size southward in specimens of this species are uot substantiated 

 by the more extensive series now available, the lack of sufficient 

 material in 1910, there suggested a- a possibility, accounting for our 

 change of view. 



The specie- was taken from under damp dead leaves on the edge 

 of forest (Fredericksburg) and among dry leaves under live oaks 

 St. Simon's Island). 



Ischnoptera pensylvanica pensylvanica (Oe Geer). 



Fredericksburg, Virginia, VII, 20, 1913, Clayton, Georgia, 2,000 ft.. V. l£ 

 CR. & II. . l i . 1911. .I.e. Bradley ,2 '; VI, 1909, 



Pennington Gap, Va.,1 ?,[M. C / W. T. Davis), 2 9 . 



Spartanburg, South Carolina, VIII 

 191:;. R. &B ,19,5 juv. 



The evidence of the present collections strengthens our previously 

 formed conclusion regarding the distribution of this species and of 

 /. dimsa. Apparently the areas occupied by the two are quite 

 distinct, only localities along the line of impingement being repre- 

 sented by both form-. The two Clayton male- and one female 

 from the same locality are very deeply colored, l>ut do qoI appre- 

 ciably approach /. pensylvanica inaequalis. 



The above-listed material taken by ii- was found under signs on 

 trees -white oaks at Fredericksbu] . 



Iichn«ptera divisa - 



Virginia, Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, I: a II . 



burg, VII. 23, 1913, l: & II . 



I JUV. 



20 ..II juv., I in. tlii ■ ./"/. 



,, ,. ... Augusta, VII, 29. L913, R a h . 



'/( ( arohna. . 



• Ion, VII, 24, I'M.: I:, a II Albany, VIH, l. I'M.:, i: a I! . i . 



2 JUV. 



The present form is clearly a derivative of the I. pensylvanica 



stock, representing an adaptation of that type in the lower country 



\ ID \ • : -■ I P. HI I 1910, |> 119, 1910 




1 16 MUX EBDING8 OF mi: H LDB1TJ OF [April, 



of thf southeastern States as /. pensylvanica incequalia is in the 

 centra] States. The difference is, however, that positive inter- 

 gradation is known to exisl between pensylvanica and />. incequalis, 

 while divisa and pensylvanica do no1 intergrade as far as known. 



both occurring in typical condition at localities where the ranges 

 meet. The northern and western limit of the known range of divisa 

 in the southeastern States can be represented by a line extending from 

 Anglesea, Cape May ( Jounty, New Jersey, to Plummer's Island, Mary- 

 land, thence to Augusta and Albany, < teorgia, and finally to Rives in 

 northwestern Tennessee. Wes1 of the Mississippi we know nothing 

 of the species beyond the North Mexico record of Saussure and 

 Zehntner. Apparently this form trespasses bul little into the Pied- 

 mont region of the southeastern States and is a distinctly coastal typi . 



The tegminal characters of tlie female of this species, previously 

 described by us, arc typically represented in all the adult material, 

 although a few specimens have the tegminal apices more rounded 

 than in others. In all, however, the general form of the tegmina is 

 sublanceolate, and the three to five distal segments of the abdomen 

 arc always exposed. The pronotal disk varies considerably in depth 

 of coloration in the Petersburg series, being hardly at all infuscate 

 in some specimens and again as solidly so as in pensylvanica in 

 others. The division of the disk color is more clearly marked in 

 some of the young than in the adults, and is obsolete in a large 

 proportion of the specimens. All of the adult specimens are within 

 the measurement extremes previously given by us. 8 



All of the above series were taken from under signs, on long-leaf 

 pine Albany), -hort-leaf pine and sweet gum (Augusta) and red 

 oak and short-leaf pine (Petersburg). At the latter locality immature 

 individuals were about as plentiful as adults; only one adult was 

 found on pine, the species, at that place at least, preferring the 

 red oak. 



Ischnoptera couloniana Saussure. 



North Carolina. South Carolina. 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H. , Spartanburg. VIII, 6, L913, II. i, 2 9. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. A: II. >, 

 sboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 19. 



1 ?,ljuv. Florence; IX, (5, 1911, (R. & H.i, 



Winter p ;i rk. IX, 7. 1911, (R. & II 1 juv. 



1 juv. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H. , 9 juv. 



•Pro'.. A< \k. Nat. Sci. I'hii.a., L910, p. 132 L910). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Georgia. Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, EL & H.) ( 



Clayton. VI. 1909, (\V. T. Davis), 1 d\ n * V a /r n n ji i i o 



Atlanta. VII. 29, 1910. 1 -, 3 9, if? 5 "^ [{' °krf^P^ ? ioi9 



(.:, .StateCln,]. • 1,n ,"> /''"n' \ lI ^. ,,_ - > ' 1912 ' 



intain, VIII. 16, 1913, (J. C. (J ' ( Hra,11 "- V >!<*•, 2 9. 



Bradlev), 19. r , ., 



A. H. Finn), 19. [U. S. /<tonda. 



1 Ortega, IX. 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



29. 



The Spring Creek male has the disk of the pronotum decidedly 

 rufescent mesad and moderately infuscate laterad, well contrasted 

 with the clear ochraceous lateral sections of the pronotum. The 

 range of the species is now known to extend northward as far as 

 Anglesea, New Jersey (1 cf ; Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Cln.), its Limits in 

 that direction being much the same a> those of /. divisa, but in the 

 bheastern States it apparently ranges higher, crossing the Pied- 

 mont region and entering the mountainous section I < Ilayton, I leorgia, 

 Sulphur Springs and Tryon, Ninth Carolina). 



The specimens listed above secured by the authors were taken 

 from under the hark of dead short-leaf pine I < roldsboro and Florence) 

 and sweet gum logs and stumps (Lake Waccamaw) and from under 

 signs on red oak (Charlotte). 



Iichnoptera uhleriana uhleriana Sau 



Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, (II. , Clayton, Georgia, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, 



1909, w T. Davis), 2 ?. 



The Clayton specimens are typical uhleriana and the locality is 

 the most southern from which true uhleriana is known. This is also 

 the firsl record of typical uhleriana from Georgia. The Arlington 

 individuals were taken at oigb.1 on road and resting on woods fol 



Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens Saunure and Zehntner. 



South Carolina. Honey [aland, June l. 1912 J I 



/•i i vii -.v ioi<a d i it Bradley), 4 ', 29,3juv. 



. Bainbndge, IX, 3. .1.' Bradley . 1 • 



I I , . I \ I - < ■ \ I T I . II 



Georgia. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, \ II. 16-29, 

 1912, J. C Bradley .1 ".19. 



Macon, \ II. 30-31, L913, \l. & II 



i jiiv. Florida. 



Vienna, VI, 5. 1910, 1 ', (Ga. St. Cln.]. Ortega IX.'.. 1913. \\ I Davis), 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, R <S II . 



i , , , , ,, Atlantic Beach, VIII. 25, 1911, R & 



[aland, \ III. 30, 191 1, h | 



R. AH I . pabio' Beach. IV 5, 1913, \\ I 



Billy's Island, VI VII, 1912, J C ,, , ■ . . j JMV . 



Bi kdlej . I '. 2 juv. 



The personally collected material listed above was secured from 

 under bark of a pine log (Brunswick), among dead leaves under 



I 




1 18 PBQ< u DINOfi 01 mi: M kDEMl 01 \ pril, 



live oaks St, Simon's [aland), under same on edge <>f oak and short 

 leaf-pine woods (Macon) and from under refuse (Atlantic Beach). 



Ischnoptera borealis Brunner. 



Gokbboro, North Carolina. VII. 25. I{:i1 '"" County, VII. L910 W. T. 

 I'M., i; & 11 . 29. Davis),39. 



Atlanta, Ml. 31, 1910, I 

 Georgia. Cln.]. 



Clayton, 2,000 3,700 feet, VI, 1909, 

 w I Davis), 1 9. 



These records are the first for the species from Georgia. At 

 Goidsboro it was found under debris in dead short-leaf pine needles. 



Ischnoptera bolliana Sauasure and Zehntner. 



Clayton, Georgia, 2,000 3,700feet, VI. Rabun County, Ga., VII, 1910, W. T. 

 1909, \\ T. Davis . I Davis), 1 9. 



Ischnoptera insolita Rehn and Hebard. 



Spartanburg, Smith Carolina. VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 9. 



This specimen is perfectly typical of this very rare and little-known 

 Bpecies. The tegmina surpass the apex of the abdomen by nearly 

 the pronotal length. Tryon, North Carolina and Spartanburg are 

 the only localities easl of the Appalachians at which the species 

 has beeu taken. The present specimen was secured from under a 

 sign on a tree. 



Blattella germanica (Linnaeus). 



Atlanta. Georgia, IX, .">, 1910, 1 cf, Waycross, Georgia, IX, 10. 1910,1$, 



[Ga. St. Cln.]. [Ga. St. Cln.]. 



Ceratinoptera diaphana (Fabriciu>). 



Billy's [aland, Georgia, VII, 1912, Newberry, Florida, XI, 19, 1911, (W. T. 



.1 ('. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . Davis), 1 juv.cf, 1 juv. 9. 



Floyd'a Island, Ga., XII, 27-30, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 9. 



The immature specimens are easily determinable, as the distinctive 

 color pattern of the young of this species makes recognition certain. 

 The Billy's Island individual is much more immature than the others, 

 being but little more than half their size. 



These records are the mosl northern ones for this beautiful type, 

 which was previously known from within the United States only 

 from Gainesville, Key West and Long Key, Florida. 



Cariblatta lutea lutea (Sauasure unci Zehntner). 



North Carolina. Favetteville, IX. 9, L911, (B & II 



1 juv. 

 Roanoke Island, VII, 25, G. P Wfighlwville, IX, 7, 1911, I: & II . 

 Englehardl ,19, [B. I. J. 1 juv. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES ')]" PHILADELPHIA. 



119 



Georgia. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913; R . 



19,1 juv. 

 Thompson's Mills, H \ Allard), 



1 o", 1 juv. 9, [V. S. X. M.]. 



. VII. 31, 1913, l: & B.), 1 9. 

 Albany, V11I. 1. 1913, II & II I 

 Spring Creek, VI, 7-23. 1911, J C 



Bradley . 3 '. .5 9. 

 Isle of Bope, IX. :;, 1911, R & U ... 



19. 



St. Simon's Island, IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



.1 C. Bradlej ,2 9. 

 Billy's Island, VI, 1912, J. C. Brad- 

 ley .2 9. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



l: ah ,19. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, T. .1. Priddey), 1 



Hebard Cm.]. 

 Atlantic Beach, \ III. 25, 1911, I; & 

 H.), 1 juv. d 1 . 



The adults in this series exhibil considerable variation in tin- 

 length of the tegmina. Warm Springs is the highesl elevation at 

 which this Bpecies has been taken. 



The insecl was found hiding under dead oak leaves Fayetteville 



and Macon), under dead needles in long-leaf pine w Is (Albany . 



in wire grass (Suwannee Creek), under refuse (Atlantic Beach and 

 was beaten from undergrowth in pine and oak woods Warm Spru 



Eurycotis floridana CWalker). 



Georgia. Florida. 



Simon's Island, IX \. 1910, Pernandina, (W. II 

 81 Cln. : VIII, 30, 1911, R. & 

 Hi ; . , l juv. 

 Billy's [aland, IX, 1-5, 1913, J. C. 



Bradley), I i 

 Si Marys, III. 6 to IV. is. 1896, 

 0. Bangs 2 M. C. Z.J. 



Finn), I . . 

 1911, fW. T. 



Pernandina, \\ 



U.8.N.M 

 Jacksonville, XI. 3, 



Davis .1 .1 juv. 

 Ortega, IX, •■. 1913, \\ T Davis . 



I '. 1 . . ."» juv. 

 Inverness, ( litrus < !ounty, I B92. ( M 



Weed , l juv., [Hebard Cln.J. 



The three ( leorgia records are the firsl from that State for the species, 



these also constituting the mosl uorthern points from which the 



Bpecies is known. In some of the young the pair lateral margins 



of the pronotum and mesonotum are decided, hut in all of the adults 



areas are of the general color. 



Tin- present authors found t h<- species under the dead hark of a 

 live oak tree on St. Simon's Island, while the Jacksonville specimens 

 are labelled " in l< >( 



Blatta onentalis Linn 



Washington, i Hstrii I of < Columbia, 

 ■I. II; Pratl . 1 . I . . i - 

 M 



Atlanta, Georgia, \ II. 7. 1910, \ III. 

 (0, 1913, _• . i . ■ 



Periplaneta aroericana (1 Ini 



Atl.ti • i, XI, 6, I I ' - Cln.J. 



Periplaneta auitralanat I 



Pernandina, I lorids \\ III inn . I 

 juv., i S.N.M 



Knterpi ise, I la , V. 16. 1 juv., I S 

 M 




L20 PRO( EKDINQa OP nil k< \i»kmy of [April, 



Periplaneta brunnea Burmeirtar. 



gia. Florida. 



Brunswick, VIII, 31, 1911, I: a II. . Fernandina, (W. li. Finn), 1 d\ 



\Y. S. N. MJ. 

 Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Jacksonville, (T. .1. Priddey), 2 9, 



ley), 19. BebardCln.]; IX, 28, 1913, (W. T. 



Thomasville, I. 3. 1908, Ul.), 3 <? , Davis), 19. 



2 9,3 juv. 



All of these specimens belong to " var. a." of Saussure and Zehntner, 

 except the Billy's Island female, which approaches "var. c. " There 

 is, however, some variation in the depth of the castaneous general 

 coloring in several of the Thomasville specimens, this also being 

 present in Beries from other localities in the collections at hand, and 

 is not due to geographic or sexual difference. 



The northern limit of distribution of the present species as now 

 known is marked by Bainbridge, Thomasville, Billy's Island and 

 Brunswick, Georgia, but doubtless it is being constantly extended 

 northward by coastwise shipping. 



At Brunswick we found this form running on the hotel veranda 

 and at Thomasville it was taken from under signs on oaks. 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnaeus). 



Jacksonville, Florida, (T. J. Priddey), New Smyrna, Fla., Ill, 1905, (A. N. 



1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. Caudell; bred, adult XI, 1905), 1 9 , 



Cedar Keys, Fla., (E. Palmer), 1 juv. [U. S. N. MJ. 



[M. C. Z.J. 



Chorisoneura texensis Sauasure and Zehntner. 



1904. Chorisom ura plocea Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 164. [Coast of South 

 Carolina.] 



Xorth Carolina. Florida. 



Tryon, VI, 19, 2 d\ [U. S. X. MJ. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H ) 1 cf 19 



a< « ■ Ti G r?v'.» v 19 iaii Orlando, VI, 7, 1907, 19, [U.S. N.MJ. 

 St. Simon s Island, 1\ , 22-\ , 12, 1911, 



(J. C.Bradley), 3 d\2 9. 



Texan series compared with sixteen specimens now before us from 

 the southeastern United States show plocea to be a synonym 

 of ttxensis. Rehn, in the absence of Texan material, was led, by 

 ambiguity in the description of texensis and confusion in the names 

 of the tegminal veins, to suppose the specimen before him to be 

 different. 



The above specimens were taken at light (Tryon), in nests of 

 webworm (Orlando) and beaten from bushes of bayberry, Myrica 

 cerifera, growing in and along the edge of pine woods (Atlantic 

 Beachj. 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



121 



The Tryon record is the most northern as well as the most elevated 

 for the species. 



Cryptocercus punctulatus Scudder. 



Maryland. 

 Meadow Mountain, Garrett County, 

 VIII, 1911, (\V. Stone), 3 adults, 

 2 juv., [A. X. S. P.]. 



Virginia. 



Hinton, (W. P. Bay), 1 adult, [U. S. 

 X. M.]. 



Stone Mountain, (Pollock'. 1 adult, 



V S. X. M.]. 

 Cumberland Mountain-. Lee County, 



VIII. is? 1 .', H. <i. Hubbard , 



1 adult, [M. C. Z.]. 



j in. 



Black Rock Mountain. 3,000 fi 

 20-25, 1911, 1 juv., [Ga. St. On.]. 



Wilson C-.p. Mountain City, VIII. 22, 



1913, .1. C. Bradley), 6 adults. 

 Clayton, 2.000-3,700* feet, VI. 1909, 

 U . T. Davis), 4 adults, 2 juv. 



North Carolina. 



Pisgah F st, VIII. 12, 1908, 2 adults, 



1 juv., [U. S. X. M]. . 



Blowing Rock, VII. 19, 1903, (A. P. 

 Morse), 5 adults, 1 juv.: VIII, 13, 

 (G. P. Englehardt), 6 adults, B I ' 



Linville, V II. 18, 1903, A P Morse . 



1 adult. ID juv. 



Balsam, VII. 23, 1903, A P M 



1 adult. 



The present records aid very materially in mapping the area! and 

 vertical distribution of this very interesting and peculiar genus and 

 specif-. The known data from the southeastern States show that it 

 ends as low as from 700 to 1 ."'"'i feel vicinity of Rome, « Seorgia), 

 while it has Ix'fii taken as high as 5,500 feel (Old Baldy Mountain, 

 North Carolina . 



MANTID^E. 



Stagmomantis Carolina Johanaaon). 



L896. Badromantia virga Scudder, Can. Km., XXVIII, p. 213 



ford, Florida.] 



■mi. 

 1 redericksburg, \ II, 20, 1913, R d 



11,2 jui 



burg, \ II, 23, 1913, R & ll . 



I jir. 



Newport News, IX. 16. 1907, B. 



Long . i . LN.S.P 



Worth Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R. & II . 



1 jus 



boro, \ II. 26, 1913, R & II . 

 1 ju\ 

 Groldsboro, \ II. 25, 1913 R A II . 



1 juv. 9 . 



■ (rule, IX. 9, I'M l. R a 1 1 . 



Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, R. & II 



2 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, L9I L, I: A 



11,1 juv. 9. 



Smith Carolina. 

 Florence IX, 6, 191 1, R A B 



19,1 juv \ 2 ju\ 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, R A II 



1 juv. ', 2 jir. 

 Ashley Junction, \ 111, 15, L913, R 



."» juv. ', 3 jui 

 Yemassei . |\. i. i«.| i . R a \\ \ 



Georgia. 

 Cornelia, \ II. 1910, w I 

 l jut 



lotte, VII, 27, 1913, R A ll Stone Mountain vie, \lll. 3, L913, 



2 juv. 9. 



Winter Park, IX, 7. 191 1. I: A ll 

 19, 1 ju 



R. AH l juv. 

 Augusta, \ II. 29, 1913, R A II , 



2 ju\ 




L22 PRCM BEDINOS OF nil. \< \i»l.\n OF [Ajftril, 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9 10,1913, R . Bomerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 ju\ 1 juv. 9 . 



:.. VII, 30 31, 1913, (R. & H.), Albany, Mil. 1. 1913, < K A II 



:j jir. juv. :?, J juv. 9. 



Savannah, \ Oemler . 1 . . I S.N M.]. _ ., 



[ale of Hope, IX. 3, 1911, R A H . f /.»/•/./»/. 



1 juv Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), I 



Sandfly, 1\. 3, 1911, (R. A H.), 2 19, [Hebard Cln.]; VIII, 25, 1911, 



juv i; a II . 1 juv. 9 ; IX. 5 27, 1913, 



Tybee blaml. IX. _'. l'.Ul. ill.'. ! " i\V. T. Davis), 3 9 , 2 juv. 9 . 



- Simon's Island, Mil. 30, 1911, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (B & 



I; a li .19,1 ju\ II . •_' juv. ■-. l juv. 9. 



Brunswick, Mil. 30, 1911, (H.), l c \ Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 1 juv. 



R .vH 1 \19. Sanford, (S. B. Frazer), I juv. d\ 



Suwannee ('nek. Mil. 28, 1911, ttpb of Bactromantis virga Scudder, 



I; a H. . l juv. 9. [Scudder CJn |. 



It is surprising to find the unique type of Scudder'a Bactromantis 

 virga merely a large immature individual of the present species and 

 of tin- usual type of coloration for its sex. There is no question 

 but that the specimen i> Scudder's type, for it hears his label and 

 agrees perfectly with his description in size and coloration. The 

 glaring misstatement in the original description, "apterous female," 

 can only be attributed to carelessness involving the consequent 

 erection of another synonym. The specimen is indeed "apterous,"' 

 but the wing pad- may be seeu readily with the naked eye and the 

 most casual examination of the apex of the abdomen shows that it 

 is not a female. As virga is the type by monotypy of the genus 

 Bactromantis, that genus falls in the synonymy under Stagrnomantis. 



In the above series we find the majority of immature males dark 

 in genera] coloration, but having the median and caudal limbs green, 

 only two immature examples of this sex are wholly green or greenish. 

 All of the immature females are of this latter phase of coloration. 



Gonatista grisea (Fabriciua). 



Morris Island, Charleston Harbor, Fort George, Florida, (R. S. Turner . 



- ith Carolina, 1 f, [Scudder Cln.]. 1 9 , [I". S. X. M.|. 



onah, Georgia, (A. Oemler), 19, McDonald, Fla., IX, 6, 1905, (C. H 

 [U. S N M Baker), 1 juv. 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



The specimen from McDonald was taken on a long-leaf pine. 

 The presenl species is found in moderate numbers throughout the 

 -nl >t topical region of southern Florida and to a much less degree in 

 the Sabalian or Basic Austral zone of the southeastern United States; 

 record- to the north of the limits of this zone are surely those of indi- 

 vidual- accidentally introduced. 



Oligonyx scudderi Bauamire. 



1 -77 Oligonyx uhleri Stftl, Bih. till K. Svensk. Vet. Akad. Band!., IV. No 

 10, p. Mi. [Louisiana.] 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



South Carolina. Warm Springs, 900 feet, VIII. 10, 1913. 



5 ■ ■ tassee, IX. I. 1911, H. . 1 juv. <?. 1; • ' J" v 



1 Albany, VIII. 1. 1913, R. & H.), 19. 



Geonjm. WTaycross, VIII. 11, L903, A. P. 

 Dalton. 1.200 feet, VIII, 7, 1913, R Morse . 1 juv. 9 . 



1. !• _ , 



Sharp Mountain. 1,900 feet, VIII. 6, Honda. 



1913, R. . 1 juv. Crescenl City, 1 ', [U. S. X. M.]. 



Buckhead, VTH, 2, 1913, (R. & BL), Punta Gorda, XI, II, 1911, 1 '. 

 1 juv. : . Davis < 'In.]. 



A study of the literature on the genus QUgonyx bas brought to 

 light several interesting features. In L870, Saussure briefly de- 

 scribed Oligonyx scudderi,* giving North America as the locality; 

 this is explained by bis remark the following year 10 under this species: 

 "Habite. Probablemenl I'Amenque meridionale (Etiquetee de 

 Georgie, sans doute par erreur)." Later knowledge of the species' 

 distribution shows conclusively thai Saussure's type was very prob- 

 ably correctly labelled. In 1877. St&l recorded as this species speci- 

 men- from Texas, which belong to the western type discussed below, 

 and described Oligonyx uhleri from Louisiana as aew, stating thai 

 this species is "extremely near scudderi, something larger, tegmina 

 ami wings men- obscure, distinctly infuscated, limbs longer." None 

 of these characters are of sumcienl importance in tin- based to be con- 

 sidered of specific value, for the size and limb length arc shown to l>e 

 variable in the series of 13 adult male- before us, and the individuals 

 from the dryer western localities differ only from eastern examples 

 in having the tegmina and wings less darkened and in a few other 

 minor respects. St&l named the more eastern representative, and 

 hence bis name falls as an absolute synonym of 0. scuddt ri. Saussure 

 and Zehntner have described representatives from Dallas, Texas, 

 and Northern Mexico as Oligonyx bolHanu8, 1] hence the western 

 type, if sufficiently distinct to warranl racial separation, would l>e 

 called 0. scudderi bollianut S. and Z. 

 The species was found running on bare ground Dalton, Sharp 



Mountain), on ground in pine and oak w 1- Warm Spring 



in oak froods (Buckhead), in swampy -pot in short-leaf pine w Is 



V and was beaten from wire grass and undergrowth of 



• af pine wood- Albanj . 



■ u i i 1870 



■ i/. ■ // ■ \ ••■ \i- \l .'it \„,.! . p 121, 1871 

 /• imer., Ortb., I. p. L73 IS 




124 



1'K<m EEDINGS OF I III. \' \l'l \n 01 



April. 



Thesprotia graminis (Scuildor). 

 ■lia. 



late of Hope, IX. 3, 1911, EL & II . 

 19. 

 p: IX, 1,1911, i; a II .19. 

 Si - mon'a Island. \ '111. 30, 1911, 



B ah . •_■ . . 1 HP. 

 Cumberland [aland, VIII, 31, 1911, 



EL A H . l \ 39. 

 Bomervflle, VIII, 27, L911, R & II 



19. 

 Albany, VIII. I, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9. 



Florida, 



Jacksonville, IV 28, L913, XI. 3, 1911, 

 \\ T Davis), 3 juv. ': VIII. 25, 

 1911, (R. & EL). I 9. 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, K. & 

 EI.), 1 -. i . 



Live Oak, VIII, 10, 1903, (A. P. 

 Morse), I ^, 3 juv.; VIII. 26, 1911, 

 i: & n i j, 19. 



Cresceni City, 1 o", 19, [U.S. N. M.|. 



Newberry, XI, 18, 1911, (W.T Davis), 

 19. 



The largest female before us, 52.4 mm. in length, is from Atlantic 

 Beach. This Bpeciee is found generally distributed, but never in 



numbers, in the undergrowth of the pine forests of Georgia and 

 Florida in decided Sabalian (see preface) surroundings. Isle of Hope 

 is the most northern locality recorded for the species, but it will 

 doubtless be found in southern South Carolina and as far northwest- 

 ward in Georgia as the limit of the Sabalian element. The male 

 from Live Oak was taken when Hying through the pine woods, its 

 feeble Muttering flight resembling that of a myrmelion. At Atlantic 

 Beach several specimens were found in a tangle of raspberry vines and 

 other plants, under cabbage palmettoes in the "hammock." 



PHASMID-ffi. 



Diapheromera femorata (Say). 

 Virginia. 



Great Falls, IX. 28, 1913, (C. T. 



Greene), 2 cf, 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 2 juv. 9. 



North Carolina. 



Topton, VIII. 21, 1903, A. P. Morse), 

 1 o". 



South Carolina. 



Greenville, 1887, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. A: H.), 

 1 juv. cf . 



/ia. 



Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



2 juv. cf. 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4, 1913, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



Dalton, \ III, 7, 1913, (R.), 2 juv. 9 . 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. 

 Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 4 juv. cf , 



3 juv. 9 . 

 Sand Mountain, VIII, 26, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 cf , 1 juv. 9. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf, 3 juv. 9. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain. VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 3 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9, 1913, (R.), 



2 juv. 9. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 juv. cf , 2 juv. 9 • 



Albany, VIII, I, 1913, (R. & EL), 2 cf , 



2 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 • 

 Lakeland, Decatur County, I cf, ' 



31 Cln.]. 



Specimen/3 from southern Georgia are very large, the largest male 

 (Albany J is 84.5 mm. in length; however, no racial characters exist. 

 The specie* has qoI been taken south of the fall line in the south- 

 eastern United States until extreme western Georgia and north- 




1916.] NATURAL -< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 2."> 



western Florida is reached. The material recorded by ua from the 



above localities was all taken in the undergrowth of pine and <>ak 

 woods. 



Manomera tenuescens (Scudder). 



L913. Manomera orihostylus Caudell, Proc. I". S. Nat. Mu-.. WAV. p. 612, 

 fig. 27. [Orlando, Florida. 



North Carolina. Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, Et. & B . 



Sehna. VII. 7. 1903, A. P. Morse), ( , 1 ' mlM ,., ;m , 1 M:lIlll . yill, 31, 1911, 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, mil. R. & 11 . &■ * H.) f 10 ',59. 



3 9. Florida. 



S """> ''"'•"'"'"• !.M,Mville.VIII.2.-.. 1911, R & H 



Denmark, VIII. 15, 1903, \ P. 1 i 



Morse), 1 9. Live Oak, VIII, 26, L911, R. & H , 



•I in. 

 Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, i: . 1 9. 



19. 



S( ries before us of adults and immature examples of both thi> 

 species and M. brachypyga, 13 prove thai M. orihostylus of Caudell, 

 the unique type of which is before us, is an absolute synonym of the 

 present insect, based on a male in the instar preceding maturity. 

 The relative proportions of the distal abdominal segments in both 

 3, which r«;ulily separate adults of tenuescens and brachypyga, 

 as readily separate immature individuals of the two Bpecies. Until 

 the adull condition is reached, the male cerci of both species are 

 straight, pilose and delicate in structure; those of tenuescens being 

 decidedly shorter than the disto-dorsal abdominal segmenl and 

 those of brachypyga slightly longer than thai segment. 



In the dog fennel, Eupaiorium compositifolium Walt., at Cumber- 

 land [aland, a climbing vine, Bradburya virginiana (L.) Kuntze, was 

 frequently encountered; the elongate green pods of this vine, resting 

 m the dog fennel, bore a remarkable resemblance to the bodies <>t 



the female walking-sticks there found. 



The species U decidedly :i Lower Austral and Sabalian type, 



previously known only from Florida. The material before us was 

 found ahout a -ink Imle surrounded by a few gum tree- in low weeds 

 and plants and -cant grasses Winter Park , in bunch u r ra-- in a sandy 

 scrub-oak area just above the fall line Augusta . on dark wet ground 

 covered with low swamp plant- Homerville), in do^ fennel in long- 

 leaf pme wood- Cumberland Island, Jacksonville) and in the low 

 undergrowth of the long-leaf pine wood- 'Live Oak). 



Pita \. u> Nai - ; I'iiii v 191 1 p. 384, figs. I to i 191 t 




126 



PROI EEDINGS OF 1 HE \< V.DEM1 01 



[April, 



Aniiomorpha buprestoidei (8toll) 

 South < '(lroliixi. 



Yemasse IV I. 1911, (R. & 11 



1 •. 1 . . J juv. 9. 



Gt orgia. 



Sandfly, IX. 3, 1911, R. & II . I ', 



1 . 

 Brunswick, VIII. 30, 1911, il . I 



juv. 

 Billy's Island, V, 1912, .1 C. Bradley), 

 VI, 1912, .1. C. Bradley), 

 1 juv. •. 2 juv. v ; IX, l-.->. 1913. 

 .1 C Bradley), 3 \ 1 i : XII, 20, 

 1913, .1 C. Bradley), l juv. cr. 

 Albany. VIII. 1, 1913, (R. & It.), 2 d\ 

 3 juv. _•'. 13 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IX. 7. XI. 3, 1913, 



\\. T. Davis), •". ',8 9. 

 Ortega, IX. 6, 1913, (W. 'I'. Davis), 



1 d\l9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, I: & 



II .), mi \ 62 ?, 1.". juv. 9. 

 Si. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 d\ 



\ \. s. P.]. 

 Eustia III. 1892, (II. .1. Webber), 



1 o*. 1 9. [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Volusia ' lounty, 1 d\ 19, [A. N 



- P.]. 

 Warrington, VIII, 4, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse!. 2 d\ 19, 1 juv. 9. 



Alabama. 



Mobile, (Dr. Corson, Dr. Jackson), 



1 tf, 2 9. [A. X. S. P.]. 



The present species is peculiar to the Sabalian and Tropical Zones 

 of the southeastern United States where it is found, at times in 

 large numbers, in the forest undergrowth. The large series from 

 Atlantic Beach was taken in such surroundings on the edge of a 

 swamp; the entire series was found collected in two clusters in tall 

 weeds, the majority of the specimens in coitu; we have a pair from 

 this series still connected, of which the female is in the instar preceding 

 maturity. Immature individuals were found locally numerous in 

 tall weeds in the long-leaf pine woods along the river at Albany. 



The mosl northern, as well as the mosl western, definite records 

 for the species are giveD above. 



Anisomorpha ferruginea (Beauvoia). 



South < 'arolina. 

 Aiken. 1 \ [M. C. ZJ. 



Gi orgia. 



Wilson Gap, .Mountain City, VIII, 

 22, l'-l.;. .1 C Bradley), 12 cr, 19, 

 '■) juv. 9. 



Tallulah, VIII. Iss7, 2 d\ 19, [U. S. 

 X. M. and Bebard ''In. 1 . 



T<»r,-,,.,. VIII, 5, I''];;. IIj, l juv. o". 



Jasper, VII, 25, 1903, (A. I'. Morse i, 



1 ri\ 

 Stone Mountain, VII, 28, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 juv. cr. 

 Warm Springs, 850-1,200 feet, VIII, 



9-10, 1913, (R.), 2d",2 juv. c> , 2 



juv. 9 . 



Louisiana. 



Arcadia, Bienville Parish, X, 15, 1885, 

 (L. Johnson), 1 9, [V . S. X. M.]. 



The much smaller size, different facies, different and less striking 

 coloration and somewhal more slender and straighter limbs readily 

 :ate adults of this species from adults of A. buprestoides; the 

 young of thai species are, however, frequently obscurely colored 

 and often in these stages closely resemble the present insect. The 

 difficulty in ascertaining whether a specimen is adult increases the 




1916.] NATURAL 5< CBNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



perplexities of the student, and the records of ferruginea from Florida 

 are either due to a misconception of the presenl species or are 

 referable to the young; of A. buprestoides. 



Caudell, in his paper on the Walkingsticks of the United States, 13 

 has given, among other State records, Florida and Pennsylvania for 

 the present insect. The firsl of these records applies to .1. bupres- 

 toides, while the second is due to :i mistake caused by a "Tallulah, 

 Ga.," label appearing to he "Tallulah, Pa." 



The present ant Inn-- in an earlier study of .1. buprestoides, 14 eon- 

 fused nearly mature and differently colored specimens of that species 

 with the presenl insect; at that time A. ferruginea was not repre- 

 sented in their collections, it- definite distribution was quite unknown 

 ami the early descriptions of the two species were and are by no 

 nnan- convincing. 



The distribution <>f .1. ferruginea apparently extends from just 

 north of th<- Ohio River south over the Mississippi Valley to the 

 Gulf States, west to extreme southeastern Nebraska and eastward 

 through the Appalachians in Virginia and in tin- high portion- ol 

 the ( larolinas and < leorgia. 



The series taken at Wilson Gap was found under the hark of a 

 singl< 



ACRIDID^E. 



On ili< It'Ki- of Nomotettix cristatus (ScudcL 



A study of the series of over four hundred and fifty-eighl specimens 

 of the present species before us from the eastern United States and 

 Canada offers convincing proof that but one known species of 

 rists in this portion of North America. This 9pecies is 

 divided into five geographic races which are typical over certain 

 areas, but which intergrade so gradually thai aeries of specimens from 

 numerous localities between those where the typical forms are found 

 .-how intermediates of every degree. The following key gives char- 

 re which are by no means, decided; it attempts to define racial 

 characters as found in typical series. 



A Vertex moderately projecting in front of eyes, angular exes 



tion beneath it moderately deep in lateral aspect. 



Vertex in lateral aspect blunl and very broadly 



rotundato-acute-angulate, dorsal surface of head weakly 



/ ' U i . \\\ I. p 882, L90 



" Prcx \> \\> \ vi >. i I'm ii. \ . 1907, p. 284 L9 




128 PROCEEDINGS 01 mt: \« \l>i:\n OF [April, 



ssulate on either Bide of median carina of vertex which 

 is weakly elevated; eyes prominent; margins of median 

 femora very weakly sinuate; pronotum rugoso-scabrous, 

 cephalic margin of dorsum weakly produced over head, 

 median carina with height above humeral angles much 

 - in -V. c. floridanvA; antennae shorter than in the other 

 races Nomotettix cristatus borealw E. M. Wa 



\.\ Vertex strongly projecting in fronl of eyes, angular excavation 

 beneath it very deep in lateral aspect. 

 B.- Vertex in lateral aspect broadly rotundato-acute-angulate, 

 dorsal surface of head moderately fossulate <'ii either 

 side of median carina of vertex which is strongly 

 elevated; eyes moderately prominent; margins ol 

 median femora with scarcely any sinuation; prono- 

 tum minutely scabrous. 

 ( .—Pronotum with median carina less compressed, 

 moderately arcuate with that portion between 

 the humeral angles often distinctly flattened, 

 height above humeral angles 1.2 to 1.7 nun.. 1 '' 

 cephalic margin of dorsum moderately produced 

 over head with sides straight or weakly concave. 

 Nomotettix crista/ us cristatus (Scudder). 

 I < '.—Pronotum with median carina strongly compressed, 

 strongly and usually evenly arcuate, height 

 above humeral angles 1.6 to 2 mm., cephalic 

 margin of dorsum more strongly produced over 

 head with sides more or less strongly concave. 

 Nomotettix cristatus compressus Morse. 

 BB. — Vertex in lateral aspect more sharply rotundato-acute- 

 angulate, dorsal surface of head more strongly 

 fossulate on either side of median carina of vertex 

 which is but moderately elevated; eyes very promi- 

 nent; margins of median femora weakly sinuate; 

 pronotum rugoso-scabrous. 

 C. — Other pronotal characters (see C and CC under B) 

 nearly intermediate between those of .V. c. crista- 

 tus and A", c. compressus,- height of median carina 

 above humeral angles 1.3 to 1.8 mm 



Xomotettix cristatus arcuatus Hancock. 



( ( '.—Other pronotal characters (see parentheses under A) 



of the N. c. borealis type, height of median carina 



above humeral angles 1. to 1.4 mm. 16 (The 



rugoso-scabrous condition of the pronotum more 



"The males of the presenl species are usually Bomewhat smaller than tin 

 females and, as would !><• expected, the majority of the sex measure nearer the 

 minimum of the dimension here given than do the females. 



'•The types of this race, from Porl Orange and Enterprise, Florida, do not repre- 

 sent the extreme development and -how decided tendencies toward X. c. arcuatus 

 Hancock. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIEN< ES « >F PHILADELPHIA. 129 



decided than in N. c. arcuatus, much as in .V. c. 

 borealis.) 



NomoU ttix cristatus floridanus Hancock. 



The race of the Middle States, N. c. compressus } shows the greatest 

 development of the vertex and it- median carina, the median carina 

 of the pronotum, and the production of the cephalic margin of the 

 pronotum. The two races in distribution furthest removed from this 

 insect, N. c. borealis in the north and N. c. floridanus in the south, 

 show the greatest divergence from this type, which divergence has 

 taken place along parallel lines in a numb rof characters I pronotal and 

 femoral) but in other- separates these two races most widely of all. 



Nomotettix cristatus borealis E. M. Walker. 



Through Dr. Walker's great kindness, we have before us the type 

 (his figured 9, here selected) and paratype ( 9 ) of this insect, the 

 only specimens known, which were taken at Diamond Lake, Tema- 

 gami District, Ontario. September 7. 1903, by Dr. Walker and were 

 described most satisfactorily by him. 



The difference given in the pronotal arcuation when compared 

 with N. c. cristatus is of no value as a character, that insect exhibiting 

 frequently Buch irregularity as described. The present race, however, 



ist Strongly denned and. as Dr. Walker suggests, the northern- 

 mo-' of the races of the present species. 



Nomotettix cristatus cristatus (Scudder). 



Batrachidea carinata Scudder, Boat. Journ. Nat, lli-t . VII, p 179, 

 M issachuset I 



itio. Blue Hill. Suffolk County, P. \\ 



Bay, VI. 1908, E M Whiting • - p.and 



iv. Toronto Chi Hebard < Ins.], 



Mt. Holyoke, \ I. 24. 1898, I . Knab . 



\. w Han 1 '.i S. N. M 



P \\ Whiting . 1 '. 35 i . I Marion, VII] 30, L905, II . I . . 1 



ju\ . . A N.8 P.and BebardCL J" v 



1/ • 



; io . \n';\rT B " U,M " M ' 



l in v o IX K S P i[i,l neDara < ni.|. 



' " a, VI, 1,1910, M . v 



- igus, \ I. 16, 1906, I. \ . ,- , 



U. 8. N. M Ni ' ) " rl: - 



Welle«l< . P. W. whiting 1 Forresl Park. I. I., VI, 15, L902 1 



\ ,.| Hebard ' Hebard Cln 



■ Hills, V, 10 and 11, 1912 and Mosholu, VI, j_\ 1902, I \ Hebard 

 I'M ; P. W. Whiting . l ! Cln.l. 



\ nd Hebard Cln 



pL 7. figa. l uid I 




130 



I'Kix EEDINGS OF I III. \< \M.\IY <>K 



[April, 



\ i ./• 



Lakehuret, V, 26, 1903, l juv. d\ 



Hebard I 

 Whitings, IX. 28, 1906, (B Long), 



l ■ \ \ S. P.J. 

 Pemberton, \ . 2, 1913. II. B. Scam- 



mell). 2 9, [U. S. N. M.). 

 Stafford's 1 orge, \ III. 26 31, L907, 

 I: . l ; . l juv. ', l juv. 9 : IX. 16, 



1905, II ,5 '. » i : IX. 31, 1908, 



i: . i -.i juv. . . 

 Parkdale, VII. 30, 1911, (R. & II .), 

 l ■ 



V. 17. 1903, (K. Daecke,) 

 1 . [Hebard Cln.]. 



}'< nnsylvania. 

 s-.uih Sterling, IX. 17, 1906, (B. 

 Lout .1 ', [A. N. S. P.]. 



Laanna, Pike < fcmnty, \ 111 31, L906, 



(B. Long), 1 9, [A. N.S. P.]. (Long 



pronotum 

 Tobyhanna, 2,000 feet, IX. I 3, 1903, 



II 1,19. 

 Pocono Lake, \ I. 16, 1907, (B Long), 



2 . [A. X. S. P.J. 

 Tyrone, IV, 3, l ', 2 ?, [Pa. St. Depti 



Zool. Cln.]. 



Maryland. 



Jennings, 2,000 feet, middle of \ III, 

 1911, (W. Stone), 1 juv. v. (A. N. 

 ^ P.] 



North Carolina. 



Mounl Pisgah, 4,500 feet, X, 1. L904, 



II . 1 juv. 9. 



S sudder's name carinata is based upon the form of the present 

 insect having a long pronotum. 



This insect, the genotype of Nomotettix, is typical in Massachu- 

 setts;" south of that State individuals show a tendency toward 

 .V. r. compre88U8 } which in the series recorded above is strongest in 

 the specimens from New Jersey. 1 '-' The specimens from Go Home 

 Ray. Ontario, are very similar to those from Lyme, Connecticut, 

 neither of which series is perfectly typical. 



YVe have found the species in the undergrowth of the pine barrens 

 of New Jersey, but have never taken it in numbers, possibly because 

 no examinations of this region have been made in June, during 

 which month .V. r. compressus reaches its greatest abundance on 

 the barren serpentine outcrops near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 



Nomotettix cristatus compressus Morse. 



1903. Nomotettix cristatus atavus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, p. 219. 

 No locality niven.] 



\< a- Jersey. 



Clementon, V, 6, L905, 1 9, [A. N. 

 g P 



North Woodbury, IX. is. L905, 

 II L. Viereck .' 1 ?, [A. N.S P 



/'< nnsylvania. 



Dauphin, VII, 4, 1 o", 2 9, (Pa Si 



Dept. Zool. Cln.]. 

 Rockville, (Fort Hunter P 0.), X, 



16, 19, [Pa. St. Dept. Zool. Cln.]. 



■ W<- have a typical series of this insect from numerous Massachusetts localities 

 other previously recorded material before u- from New Haven, 

 Connecticut, and Atsion, New Jersey, -how- tendencies toward N. c. compressus 

 Morse. 



In fact, although tin- Beries recorded above from Stafford's Forge, New Jersey, 

 inly belongs here, as the majority of the specimens show much the closer 

 affinity to the present insect, there are two females in the Beries which are inter- 

 mediate- individually closer to N. c. compressut Morse 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



District 



131 



Enola, V, .3. 1 juv. '. Pa. St. Dept. 



Zool. Cln.]. 

 Brandsville, VII. 14. 1910, H. B. 



Kirk . 1 ', [Pa. Si D( pt. Zool 



Cln.]. 

 Carlisle Junction, IV. 27. 1910, \\ . R. 



Walton . 1 . . r S1 Depl Zool. 



Cln.]. 

 Pequea, VI, 9, 1 9 , [Pa. St. Dept. Zool. 



Cln 

 Valley Forge, VI, 27, 1908, H ,19. 

 Pink Hill. Newtown Square, VI- VII, 



15, 1908-11, l: & 11 . .1 ".26 9, 



4 juv. ; . 

 Fern Bill, Chester County, IX. 19, 



190S. R. .v II. . i . ! 

 Germantown, V, 5, 31, 1912-13, E. R. 



Casey ,3 2 I sey Cln.]. 

 Mount Airy, IX. 15, L903, B.), 1 9. 

 CoBegevule, VIII, 28, 1913. E l: 



sey . 1 juv i sey Cln.]. 



Penn Station. Brugger . 1 '. [A. N. 



- P 

 Beatty, V. 3, 1905, Brugger ,19, 

 \ 8 P 



Ohio. 

 Cleveland, VII, 3, imo. II . I ' 



Washington, IX. 1^83, l?, [Hebard 

 Cln.]. 



Virginia. 



Rosslyn, X. 22, 1900, R.), 1 9. 

 Falls Church, V, 25, 1913, A. X 

 CaudeU .1 '. I S. N. M.]. 



Worth Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R & II . 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, R & 11. . 



1 . 2 . 1 juv. '. 3 IT. 

 Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, R. & H. . 



2 9. 



Georgia. 



Black Hock Mountain. :; .." 



25, 1911, .1. c. Bradley), 1 9. 

 Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 191 1. 



.1. C Bradley .2 9. 

 Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, R . 



2 ju\ 



Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, 



II . 1 JT. 



In the materia] before us, the Beries from-eastern Pennsylvania 

 to Virginia -how- the extreme, and what may be considered typical, 

 developmenl of this race. It may be noted that this race is found 

 along thf Delaware in New Jersey, while N. c. cristotus, though not 

 typical, i- distributed over the northern portion of the State and 

 the pine barrens. But two specimens having the extremely long 

 pronotum are before us; both are females, one from Beatty, Penn- 

 sylvania, the other from Virginia; this form of the present race has 

 been named atavus by Blatchley. 



About Philadelphia this form i- very occasional excepting upon 

 the barren serpentine outcrops, where in June adults may be found 

 in numbers. In July and September it \\:i- found very scarce in 

 the forest undergrowth of eastern North Carolina; :it which former 

 time half of the specimens were in the immature condition. 



Nomotettix criitatui arcuatus B 



1906 \ '• ■"' - Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 119. 



1 iddo, Haileyville, South McAlester, Indian Territory Deniaon.Tex 



Sorlh < 



Wilmington, l.\. 8, 191 1, R & II 



I juv. ". 2 ju\ 



Winter Park, IX, 7. 191 1 I: A II , 



i i 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 191 1 R d 



II ; j ,. 



South ' 



Florence l\ 8, 1911, R AH 



iu\ 

 Ashley Junction, \ III. 15, 1913, R 



1 ' . 1 j 1 1 v ' . 2 j 1 1 \ 



i\ i. mil i: a ll 



- 




L32 PROCEEDINGS 01 un: M uu.vn OF [April, 



gia. Bomerville, \ III. 27, 1911, (R. & II I, 



Augusta, vii. 29, 1913, i: & li "' '« 17 >» 3 i uv -'- 



1 - juv. pi . , , 



Sandfly, IX. 3, L911, R & 1 1 . . 3 '. ttonaa. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, R & II ,19, Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 19, 



2 juv .. HebardCln.] 



3unona Island, MM. 30, 1911, Baldwin, III, 7, 1879, (E. A. Schwarz), 

 R.&H.),19. i . . |r. s. N. M 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, II ,21 _■*. Atlantic Beach, VIII. 24, 1911, (R. & 

 7 1 1 ..•_■■. 2 



rdville, V, L5, 1915, B. . I .-'. y ve Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & M. 

 2 juv. 9. iq 



Suwai I ek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & u 



II .; '. 1 : . •_• JUV. 9. flfl88W8ippt. 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Biloxi. IV, 23, F. M. Jones), 19, 

 ley\ 2 juv. \ l juv. . : VII. 1912, \ N . S. P.). 



J. C. Bradley), 16 \ 19 i . 2 juv. 

 IX. 1-6, 1913, .1. C. Bradley), 



1 \ 1 juv. 9. 



A gradual diminution of the pronotal crest is noticeable in the 

 'li-trilmtion from north to south of the present race, the other charac- 

 ter- which distinguish this race becoming in like manner more 

 pronounced. The material from southern Georgia may be con- 

 sidered typical. The series of twenty-three specimens from San 

 Pablo, Pablo Beach and Gainesville, Florida, which we have recorded 

 as N. cristatu8, M belong to the present race. 



Thi- race is peculiar to the Sabalian and a portion of the Lower 

 Austral zones of the southeastern United States. It is widely 

 distributed and sometimes abundant in the undergrowth of the 

 long-leaf pine woods, particularly where the ground is low, sandy 

 and water-soaked (Yemassee, Homerville, Hebardville). It has 

 also been found abundant in low spots covered with short green 

 _ sses in the midst of saw-palmetto flats (Brunswick). Our material 

 indicate- that this race appears adult in the largest numbers later 

 in the season than do the more northern races of the species. 



We find Morse's N. cristatus denticidatus, 21 to be merely the western 

 development of the present race showing a decided tendency toward 

 A", c. compressus. The insects, however, though not typical, are 

 decidedly nearer the present race and we have consequently placed 

 Morse's name in the synonymy here. 



Nomotettix cristatus floridanus Hancock. 



Twelve specimens at hand, recorded by the authors' 22 from Lake- 

 land, Fort Myers and La Belle. Florida, show the extreme develop- 



20 Pko< . Acad. Nat. S< i. Phila., 1907, p. 284, 1 1907 



• Morse questions the racial validity of this phase in his original description. 



a Jour. A". ) . XXII, p. 102, I'M i 




Florida. 



191b.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L33 



ment of the presenj type, which race is founded merely <m an inten- 

 sification of the characters which constitute the race .V. e. arcuatus. 



This geographic race is known only from central and southern 

 Florida, in the northern portion of it- range gradually intergrading 

 with -V. c. arena tus, 



Acrydium arenosum arenosum (Burn.. 



North Carolina. Waycross, V, B, 1911, 19, [G Si 



Charlotte \II. 27, I'M.; R & II . VtlU ,\ 1 , l ,. ; , i V | i < . r_> . .1 C. Brad- 



: ■ _ ley 1 '. 



Wrightsville, IX. 7, 1911, R. & II . Mixon's Bammock, Okeefenokee 



11 , 19,3 iuv gwi mp, V. 16, 1915, H . in 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, R. & Spring Creek VI 7 23 1911; VII, 



H l" '■ 99, l juv. lt , 29, I'M.'. .1 C. Bradlej - 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII 



1913, R. >v H . l ■ Jacksonville, T .1 Priddey . 1 ', 



Vienna, VI, 5, 1910, 2 \ 2 9, I Hebard Cln.]. 



St <ln.]. 



this series but three of the adult- arc of tin- strongly abbreviate 



pronotum phase, namely, a male from Lake Waccamaw. on.- from 



Mixon's Hammoi k ami the single Jacksonville specimen. All of the 



other individual- have a more or less distinctly caudate pronotum. 



In coloration we have five principal unit types of pattern, all varying 



individually in tom- and also in degree of combination. A large per- 

 centage of the specimens are of ;i uniform coloration of variable tone 

 without markings. 



1 rom a study of the available material of tin- species group, it i- 

 evidenl that .1. arenosum, angustum ami blatchleyi are merely geo- 

 graphic race-. limited to definite areas and probably grading into 

 one another in equally definite areas. We have not evidence enough 

 to demonstrate this in regard to blatchleyi, hut that it i- merely an 

 itibn of the an nosum type is evidenl from an examination 

 of a female from Deep Lake, Florida, clearly referable to blatcl 

 The intergradation of on nosum and angustum, however, is well estab- 

 lished by our material, specimens from Raleigh, North < larolina, pre- 

 viously referred by us to obscurum = angustum . being intermediate 

 in character. The principal differences between the two form- have 

 already been sel forth by Hancock, the more rugose and striate char- 

 acter of the dorsum of the pronotum of o. ■■>. however, being 



more evident than any of the other differential features. 



From the evidence in hand we find that I m does 



o \, u> N m 8< i I'liu.v . 1910 p 622 1911 



lu 




13 1 PRO< BEDINQ8 01 i hi: \< \i>i.mi 01 \|»ril, 



not exhibit th<' fluctuations in pronotal structure thai .1. arenosum 

 angustum does, there being no exact parallel t<> the type occurring 

 in the latter race to which Hancock gave the name gibbosus. There 



i- no valid reason for recognizing the latter condition by name, 

 unless one Is Darning what are at most bul formative saltation-. 



A- a considerable portion of the references given for this form are 

 based wholly <»r in part on individuals of A. arenosum angustum, it is 

 at present quite difficult to mark off definitely from the literature 

 the areas occupied by the two forms, but from the material in hand 

 we can say that at least as far northward as Charlotte, Wrightsville 

 and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina, the specimens are arenosum 

 arenosum, the Raleigh individual.- being intermediate, as is the case 

 with a female from Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska, while the Stone Moun- 

 tain representative shows a tendency toward A. 0. angustum, although 

 nearer the southern form. 



The material collected by us was taken on sandy shores (Lake 

 Waccamaw), on a sandy spot at the edge of a bog (vicinity of Stone 

 Mountain), on wet clay along a "branch" in pine woods (Charlotte) 

 or on dry. sandy soil in open forest of short-leaf pine (Wrightsville). 



Acrydium arenosum angustum 'Hancock). 



Maryland, North Carol inn. 



Laurel, V. 6, 1911, K. B. .Marshall). Tryon, Y. is, ( \Y. F. Fisher), 19, 

 1 "I s. X. M.j. [U. S. X. M.]. 



Plummer's Island, IX. 29, L912, (H. L. Tennessee. 



Viereck . X. 13, 1912, .J. I). Hood), <-■>, , -,, TTT D1 lfinn T ,. n , ,_ 



, . , i s v \i l Clarksville, III, ,il, 1909, I\ , 9 and It, 



u , ,", n ' r V 'v r in, 1910 and 1911, (8. E. Crumb; on 



Washington, D. C (A. X. Caudell), tobac(jo geed bed ;m(1 hibernating 



icr, lu.a. jn.m.j. [m> 19] in leaves)> 2 d\ .5 9, 



Virginia. I r - s - N. M.J. 



Glencarlyn, [V, 27, 1913, A. X. Georgia. 



Caudell), 1 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911. 



Washington, \ I. 5, 1909, A. K. (J. C. Bradley), 2 d". ■ 



Fisher),! \ [U. S. N. M.] Black Rock Mountain, 2,000-3,500 



Luray, IX. 2, 1906, I Knab), 19, feet, V, 20-25, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 



U - X M ltf. 



For comments on this form see above under Acrydium a. arenosum. 

 We are using the name angustum in place of the synonymic b.ut gen- 

 erally used obscurum, as angustum has page priority. The above 

 north Georgia localities are the most southern from which we have 

 examined the r:t<<'. In general character the Clayton and Black 

 Rock Mountain specimens are similar to Asheville individuals and 

 all have the pronotum caudate. The Tryon specimen is equally 

 typical of this race, but the Clarksville, Tennessee, individual- show 

 some little tendency toward arenosum arenosum. 




1916.] natural s< n-:\< ES OF riiii.ADKi.rniA. 135 



Acrydium ornatum (Say). 



(hew Chase Lake, Maryland, IV, 7. 18, 1914, A N. Caudell . 1 -\ 19, 



1904, (F. D. Conden), 19, I". S. [U.S. N. M 



X. M, . Cranberry, North Corolina, X, 1. 1907, 



Washington, District of Columbia, IV, I Sherman), 1 9, [!'. S. X. M.]. 



The Cranberry specimen has the pronotum and wings of medium 

 length, i.e., but little exceeding the apices of the caudal femora. 



On the Southeastern Species of Neotettix. 



For tli<- past four years the problems presented by the ncnus 

 Neotettix have been seriously considered by as, bul previous i" this 

 writing we never felt sufficiently well equipped with material to 

 make any final statements regarding the relationship of the "species" 

 which have been described under this genus. Before us at this 

 writing we have considerably over >i\ hundred specimens from the 

 eastern States, or more properly from the region easl of the Alle- 

 ghanies from New Jersey and Pennsylvania t<> ( leorgia and peninsular 

 Florida. The following "species" from the eastern United States 

 have been referred to or described in this genus: 



Tettix femoratw Scudder, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, II. p. 306, 



(1869). [Maryland.] 

 Neotettix bolivari Hancock, Entom. News, IX. p. L39, pi. VII, figs. 



2 •_'</. 1 1S98). [Opt-lou-,-!-. Louisiana; Tifton, Georj 

 Neotettix bolivari longipennis Hancock, Tettig. X. Amer., p. L65, 



L902). [Columbus, Texas. 

 Neotettix rotundifrons Hancock, Entom. News, IX. p. L39, pi. VIII, 



figs. :;. 3a '/. L902 . [Jacksonville, Florida.) 

 Neotettix variabilis Hancock, Tettig. X. Amer., p. 165, 1902 



( locoanul ( rrove, Florida.] 

 Neotettix botteri Hancock, Entom. News, IX. p. 139, pi. \ III. fiL r -. 



1. la e, L898 . [Jacksonville, Florida.] 

 Neotettix coardatus Hancock. Tettig. N. Amer., p. 165, I L902). [New 



Mexico (error for hade County, Florida ' ocoanul Grove, 



Florida.' 



Neotettix hancochi Blatchley, Orth. of [nd . p. 226, L902 . [Knox 



< lounty, Indiana.] 



.\i>i,t>tt>r minutua Etehn and Hebard, Proc. lead. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1905, p. 34, pi. I. fig-. 3 and I. L906 . [Miami, Florida.] 



Mora ' tn-t synonymized rotundifrons under bolivari and suggested 

 the probability of the hitter being synonymous with f> moratu The 

 presenl author- described minutv in L905, basing i1 on the then 



iVidt Rehn and Hebard, Pwx ^cad, \m So l'im.\ . 1912, p 245, foot- 

 note, 1912 



i irnegie Inal \\ tab . Publ. No. 18, p 25, 1904 




136 PBO< ii DING8 "i mi. H \M.\n OF [April, 



unknown male of one of the forms <»!' the present genus, but later," 

 after more study of the genus Apotettix, they placed minutua in the 

 synonymy under coarctotus, considering it to l>e the caudate type of 

 the male. In 1911, the present authors expressed their belief thai 

 Morse was correct in his disposition of rotundifrons and also endorsed 

 the probability of bolivari and femoratua being the same, 27 the type 

 of the latter, which was unknown to Hancock, being before them 

 In 1912, Kelin and Hebard, 18 after examining the types of coarctotus 

 and variabilis in the United States National Museum, stated that 

 coarctotus was "very close to .V. boUeri Hancock, being probably a 

 -out hem geographic race of the same," while of variabilis they 

 remarked that it is "very close to N. femoratus (Sc.)," and that 

 "more material may show this to be a geographic race of 

 A". H muratus." 



A very careful analysis has been made of the descriptions of the 

 "species" listed above and the following comments are also based 

 on exhaustive examinations of the large series before us, which, 

 representing as it does fifty-five localities, we feel is sufficient for 

 conclusive deductions. The possession of the type of femoratus (a 

 female from Maryland) enables us to speak with positiveness regard- 

 ing that species, which is the crux of the whole question, as Hancock, 

 who is chiefly responsible for the specific names listed above, was 

 entirely unacquainted with its identity. The synonymy of bolivari 

 and rotundifrons can be clearly demonstrated by the examination 

 of almost any extensive series from a single locality, the supposedly 

 differential characters being purely individual. A comparison of 

 Georgia and north Florida material, which is topotypic and in 

 character perfectly typical of "bolivari" and "rotundifrons," with 

 the type of femoratus shows they are certainly inseparable specifically 

 or even varietally, while the desirability or even advisability of 

 naming the long pronotum form of "bolivari" (b. longipennis 

 Hancock) is not at all evident to us, unless we intend in similar 

 fashion to multiply names by describing all of the color phases of 

 polychromatic species. 



Hancock's boUeri we find is a distinct species, typically very 

 different from femoratus, but peculiarly losing some of its definition 

 in central and southern Florida, individuals from which region are 

 often hard to separate from femoratus. Numerous comparisons have 



"Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 244, (1912;. 

 *Ibid., 1910, ;.. 622, (1911). 

 *Ibvt., 1912, p. 244, (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



shown us that coarctatus is merely this southern bolteri somewhat 

 modified from the typical more northern material, but so slightly 

 that there now appears no valid reason for retaining the name, even 

 in a racial sense. Curiously enough, however, it is in south and 

 central Florida only that long-pronotum individuals of the bolteri 

 type have been taken. Hancock's variabilis we find is merely a very 

 faintly emphasized type of femoratus, certainly too poorly defined 

 to be entitled to a name. In the femoratus type in south and central 

 Florida we find the nearest approach seen in thai species to the 

 bolteri series, the two lines seeming to vary toward one another in 

 that area in a fashion not found in our series from northern Florida 

 northward. This fluctuation apparently expresses a certain amount 

 of instability of the tonus in that region, a probable breaking up 

 along other lines being under way, but as far as Taxonomy is con- 

 cerned it is undesirable, and in fact impossible, to attempt to express 

 or define the minute shade- of difference seen, although they can be 

 appreciated in certain specimens. From the -urn total of specimens 

 examined it is evident that some few specimens of "coarctatus" and 

 "variabilis" stand out from bolteri and femoratus, respectively, with 

 some degree of distinction, but the vast majority, into which the 

 distinctive specimens Mend, cannot be separated unless one sorts 

 by localities. In consequence of the fluctuation- of these Florida 

 specimens, the construction of a key separating femoratus and bolteri 

 bas not been easy. A character which we suggested a- . li.-i-j. n< >-» i<- 

 in l'.il'J. i.e., subscutellate or regularly diverging frontal forks, we 

 now find to be unstable in both forms, although diagnostic in the 

 greater proportion of the specimens. In consequence the present 

 key for separating /< moratus ami bolt* ri i- almost entirely comparative, 

 l.ut we feci it will serve the purpose of separating two species which 

 over by far the greater portion of their ranges are clearly defined. 



1 '• Blatchley's hancocki we now bave, through the kindness of the 

 author, a topotyp Knox I ounty, Indiana, VII. I, 1913, W S 



Blatchley) before us. This specimen -how- that the species is 

 inseparable from N. bolteri, the individual in hand being indistin- 

 guishable from east coast material, of which, it will be seen, we 

 have a sufficienl quantity to realize the extent of intra-specific 

 variation. 



Quite apart from the relation-hip of the previously known forms 

 of thifi genus from the southeastern State-, we find in the present 

 -eric- five specimens referable to this genus which are quite note- 



Peo V id \ m 8< i I'imi v . p, 244, 1912 




L38 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: ICADEM1 OF [April, 



worthy in a Dumber <>f ways. The tir-t is, that, although the 

 median carina of the pronotum is as highly cristate as in the average 

 of tin genus Nomotettix, they lack the characters of the fastigium 

 and of the frontal costa found in that genus. The second is, thai 

 the frontal costa is more widely Bcutellate between tlic antennal 

 bases than in the other forms of Neotettix, the width of the same 

 being aboul one-half thai of the very broad fastigium. The third and 

 mosl striking is, thai while the specimens in general size and character 

 of integumenl are fully adult, they lack the usual Insinuate form 

 of the caudal margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum of the 

 adult. That the material is adult is proven, however, by the presence 

 of distinctly developed tegmina and wings in t he female sex and wings 

 only in the male sex. entirely or partially hidden under t he pronotum. 

 This very remarkable condition, i.e., the retention of an Immature 

 pronotal type into the adult condition, has, however, been found to 

 exist in species of the genus Acrydium, for a discussion of which see 

 the comments of the senior author on the African A. dasynotum and 

 virunganum. M A similar condition in Acrydium kraussi, from 

 Sweden, has recently been described by Haij as variety paradoxa. 

 That this condition is deep seated in the subfamily is quite apparent, 

 and it is equally evident that it is characteristic of certain species 

 and again occurs as a variant in species normally of the usual type. 



Key to the Southeastern Species of Neotettix. 



A. — Lateral lobes of the pronotum with caudal margin unisinuate. 

 Tegmina absent (cf) or present but almost entirely 

 hidden under the pronotum (9). Pronotal median 

 carina strongly arcuate and sublamellate (much as in 



Nomotettix) proavus n. sp. 



AA. — Lateral lobes of the pronotum with usual bisinuate caudal 

 margin. Tegmina always present and entirely exposed. 

 Pronotal median carina not strongly arcuate or sublamel- 

 late. 

 B. — Form more slender. Dorsum of pronotum thickly and 

 finely granuloso-tuberculate and (occasionally) weakly 

 rugose, without distinct strumose rugae. Median 

 carina of pronotum fine, more distinct from the 

 dorsal surface of the pronotum. Caudal femora 

 with ridges of dorsolateral face and external pagina 



less strumose femoratus (Scudder) . 



BB. — Form more robust. Dorsum of pronotum with elevato- 

 strumose ridges and "bosses," particularly between 



"Wiasensch. Ergeb. Deutsch. Zent.-Afr.-Exp., 1907-1908, V, p. 66, (1914). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



the humeral angles, more pronounced in the female, 

 the protuberances usually paired and regular, but 



occasionally varying in intensity. Median carina 

 of pronotum coarser, less distinct From the dorsal 

 surface of the pronotum. ( !audal femora with ridges 

 of dorso-lateral face and external pagina more 

 strumose botieri Hancock. 



Neotettix proavus new species. PL XII. tig-, l. 2. 



The differential characters of this very striking specie-; have been 

 summarized under the generic discussioD and in the key for the 

 species. 



Type:9j Macon. Bibb County, Georgia. July 30-31, 1913. 

 (Helm and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 11.] 



Description of Type. — Size rather Large (for the genus); form 

 compressed; surface ruguloso-tuberculate. Head with the greatest 

 transverse width through the cheek-; median carina of the occiput 

 and fastigium distinct but not high, regularly arcuate into the Line 

 of the face when seen from the side, I ransverse carinas of the fastigium 

 moderately arcuate, the fastigium aboul twice as wide as one of the 

 moderately produced cephalad of the same surface of the 

 fastigium distinctly fossulate on each side near the eye; outline of 

 the face when seen from the side regularly arcuate into the fastigLal 

 outline dorsad, very faintly and broadly arcuate between the paired 

 and median ocelli; frontal costa with the fork- strongly diverging 

 ventrad to the antenna] bases, thence subparallel to the median 

 ocellu-. the inter-pace very broad, nearly one-half that of the fas- 

 tigium, scutellate, Bulcate, very strongly bo dorsad fig. 2 ; • 

 moderately prominent, very faintly flattened; antenna' short, not 

 equal to the depth of the head, twelve jointed. Pronotum strongl} 

 compressed, in section acute tectate with :> sublamellate crest, in 

 profile the crest is well arcuate t.i the humeral region, thence mod- 

 erately and regularly subarcuate declivenl to the caudal extremity 

 of the pronotum, height of crest above humeral angle very slightl} 

 greater than the depth from that point to the ventral angle of the 

 lateral lobes; cephalic margin of the pronotal disk obtuse-angulate 

 with the arm- of the angle concave, this angle reaching cephalad over 

 the head only to the middle of the eyes; cephalic carina verj slightly 

 convt rging cephalad, humeral angles very obtuse, dorso-lateral carina 

 distinct, arcuate dorsad, regularly converging to the blunt, weakrj 

 emarginate caudal apex of the pronotum ; surface of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum with indications of longitudinal elevated ridges between t he 

 shoulders; lateral lobe- of the pronotum having only the ventral Binus 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \' u>i.\n OF [April, 



indicated on the caudal margin, the tegminal sinus represented bj only 

 a faint notch fig. 1 (. Tegmina reduced in siae, vestigial, aboul as long 

 as the eye, normally hidden under the pronotum. Wings abbreviate, 

 reaching only to the caudal third of the pronol um. I Ovipositor jaws 

 strongly compressed, decidedly dentate. Cephalic femora with the 

 dorsal margin entire, ventral margin weakly undulate. Median 

 femora with dorsal margin very faintly, and ventral margin weakly, 

 undulate. Caudal femora moderately robust, in length very slightly 



more than two-thirds that of the pronotum, greatest width of the 

 femora contained slightly more than twice in the length, no distinct 

 genicular tooth indicated on dorsal margin, pattern of the pagina 



of the dorso-lateral face well defined and moderately elevated; 



caudal metatarsi distinctly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints 

 in length, distal metatarsal pulvillus equal to the two proximal • 

 in length. 



Allotype: c: Same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype. — Differing from the type in the following 

 features. Size somewhat less than in the female sex; form similar; 

 surface identical in character. Head with the fastigium very faintly 

 narrower than in the female, but otherwise .similar. Pronotum as 

 in the female. Tegmina absent. Wings proportionately less 

 developed than in the female. Limbs as in the female. 



The coloration varies from a type of uniform fuscous black with 

 weakly indicated velvety black posthumeral triangles on the dorsal 

 surface of the pronotum (allotype), to an opposite extreme with 

 verona brown on the caudal half of the pronotum, greater portion 

 of lateral lobes of the pronotum and greater portion of dorsal and 

 lateral faces of the caudal femora, with a heavy saddle of fuscous 

 black covering the remainder of the pronotum, abdomen, limbs, 

 ventral surface and head (type). The Jasper male is similar to the 

 allotype but more fuscous and with the black triangles very faint, 

 while the Buckhead female approaches bone brown with distinct 

 triangles and a generally more mottled coloration. The sixth speci- 

 men examined, mentioned more fully below, is almost uniform natal 

 brown. The limbs are more or less variegated in the contrastingly 

 colored specimens, the caudal femora particularly so, the ventral 

 face of the latter, how r ever, more solidly blackish than any other 

 aspect of the limbs. The antennal joints are narrowly annulate 

 with verona brown on fuscous black, the distal extremity largely 

 of the former color. The eyes vary from cameo brown to Vandyke 

 brown, mottled. 




1916.] NATURAL & GBNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Measurement* in millimeters). 



I ). plli of 



Length Length pronotal Length of 



of of crest to caudal 



body. pronotum. bumeral femur. 

 angle. 



"« Macon, Georgia. Type 10.4 • 1.8 6 



J Buckhead, Georgia 9 9 1 9 6 



Macon, Georgia. AUotyjx 8.1 1 5 



Jasper, < leorgia 8.2 7.5 1 6 



f Murphy. North Carolina 7 8 



:" Unknown locality 3.2 7 1 11 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us the speci- 

 mens measured above. The data for tin- Buckhead specimen is 

 August 2, 1913, II. : for the Jasper individual, elevation 1,550 

 August •"». 1913, I:. : for the Murphy specimen, July 25, L903, 

 A. P. Morse). These three specimens can 1"- considered paratypes. 

 The specimen without locality belongs t<» the Hebard Collection 

 • •. Bruner and bears a label "Schaum's < lollection." 



The males show no traci e oina, but the wings are developed 



in all, though varying somewhat in length. In the two females, 

 however, the tegmina are evident, although mere pads. 



The specimens taken by us wen- all on the ground in woodland, 

 composed of short-leaf pine Macon), mixed pine and oak Jas 

 or "uk alone (Buckhead). At Macon the species occurred among 



pine needle- and at Bllekhead il u;i- Oil quite sandy Boil. 



Neotettix femoratus (Scudder). 



A < oteilix bglivan Hancock. 



ettix bolivari longipennit Hancock. 

 \ • '■'• Uix oi ■ ■ d\j ••• I lancock. 

 U Uix variabilii Hancock. 



Pent Rivi I. 29, 1898, I C. P 



Willow Grove, Montgomery County, ' ■ • ' 8. N. M 



\ . 18, 1912, I. I: l 



' in ' nia. 



Pink Hill. Delaware County, \ I. 19, ,, t ■■ ,, ,,., . i. , •• 



1908, I: a il . i . • ^T'lJ ' 



t n dericksburg, VII, J". 1913, I! A 

 a, X. 8, 1908, II . I jr. 



Delaware. North < 



Millsboro, B. Long), I \ N Henderaonville, \l 1907 I 



- P man . I lJ.fi N M 



,, , . • nuboro, \ II 26, 1913 R a II . 



"'"'• I4 0,lju 



inli.T data. I .. type, \ \ Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R a II 

 8.P II. 



Plummer's Island, VI, 20, 1 w L Goldsboro VII, 26 1913 R d II . 



McAtee . 1 . U. 8. N. M 




142 



IMKX KKDINtiS OF 1 III. M Mil \n OF 



I April. 



Winter Park, tX, 7, 1911, R. & H . 



} -. l 

 Charlotte , VII, -'7. 1913, R & II . 

 1 . 



v ,'// < 'arotina. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, l: a II . 



1 , . 

 Manning, V, 23, 191 I, (Witmer Stone), 



! SlA.N.S.P 

 Ashley Junction, VIII. 15, 1913, (E 



I . 

 Yemassee, IX. 4. 1911, (R. & II . 



B ' - 



Rabun County, VII. 1910, (W. T. 



Davia .10 .10 9. 

 in Bald, 1,000 1,800 feet, VIII, 



21. 1913. J. C. Bradley), 1 9. 

 Black Rock Mountain, 3,500 feet, V, 



20 25, 1911, .1. C. Bradlej , 1 



juv 

 Pinnacle Peak, VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley .1 ". 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-."), 1913, (H.), 1 9. 

 Thompson's Mills. X, 1909. (H. A. 



Alh.nl . -2 \ [V. S. X. M.|. 

 Buckhead, VIII, _'. L913, (R. & H.), 



I . . 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, R. & II. . 2 cf. 



Macon, VII, 30 31, L913, K. & II. 



9 ', i . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & 11 



'I •.::..! juv. '. 2 juv. 9. 

 tale of Hope, IV 3, L911, (R. & II. . 



19. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, <R. a- II 



14 d\ 79. 

 Honey fsland, VI, 1. L912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 9. 

 Billy's Esland, VI-VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 11 d", 49. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28. 1911, 



R. a II , l rft. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 17 o", 



4 9,2 juv. 9. 

 Homervifle, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



6 o", 119. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, R. & H.), 1 cf. 



4 9,1 juv. o". 

 Spring (nek, VI, 7-23, 1911, VII, 



16-29, 1912. VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 5 o", 8 9, 1 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, IV, 1885, (Ashmead); 



VIII. 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 3 <f , 3 9 . 

 St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



Engelhardl I, 1 cf. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



6 cf, 3 9, 3 juv. 9. 



The comments made in the prefatory remarks on this genus 

 explain the synonymy given above. An analysis of the present 

 material for the ratio of individuals with abbreviate and those with 

 caudate pronota shows the larger series, as a rule, contain a greater 

 percentage of the caudate type and that geographically the difference 

 has no significance. Morse 31 has noted that in a series of one hundred 

 and fifty-two specimens from Waycross, Georgia, the two phases were 

 present in "equal numbers; but the usual proportion of long-winged 

 example- is much lower, ranging from 5 to 20 per cent." The 

 large-t series examined by us from the region under consideration 

 show the following: Sulphur Springs, X. C, 27 specimens, 7 caudate; 

 Thomasville, Ga., 24 specimens, 6 caudate; Hebardville, Ga., 21 

 specimens, 2 caudate; Brunswick, Ga., 21 specimens, 2 caudate; 

 Rabun County, Ga., 20 specimens, 2 caudate; Greensboro, N. C., 

 l!t specimens, 1 caudate; Homerville, Ga., 17 specimens, 2 caudate; 

 V/emassee, S. C, 16 specimens, 1 caudate; Billy's Island, Ga., 15 

 specimens, 2 caudate. From these series it will be seen that Morse's 

 general figun-- hold true. Rather curiously, the nine specimens 



oegie In-- Wash., Publ. No. Is. p 2o, 1904 




191(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



from Live Oak. Florida, have >i\ of their number with the pronotum 

 caudate. It is quite probable thai immediate environment is the 

 governing factor in the production of the two types, and we have 

 here an interesting field for experimental work. 



In size such variation as is found is, apparently, in the main 

 individual or environmental, while the rugosity of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum is another variable feature in all probability dependent 

 on environment. The fluctuations in the latter respect are con- 

 siderable, but in no case are they sufficient to cause confusion with 

 A". boUeri. 



The variation in the form of the frontal costs is quite appreciable, 

 and of one hundred and ninety-six specimens examined for this 

 character, one hundred and fifty-six have the interantennal section 

 scutellate or "flask-shaped," nine show a slightly different type. 

 twenty-three are more strongly divergent and three have the lateral 

 margins of the costs regularly divergent ventrad as in the majority 

 of A". boUeri. These three aberrant individuals are from widely 

 separated localities Fredericksburg, Virginia; Homerville, Georgia, 

 and Live < >ak, Florida and in no other respect <h> they approach 

 boUeri. 



In coloration we find this species to be more uniform than most 

 ii common nearctic grouse-locusts, by far the greater portion 

 of the material being brownish, with <>r without triangular blackish 

 posthumeral area-. The variation consists of a more or less complete 

 "pepper and salt" effect, rarely a pale "saddle," a pale outline of 

 the median carina of the pronotum and very infrequently paired pale 

 areas on the dorsal surface of the caudal femora. In addition to 

 these rather infrequenl differences, numerous specimens are strongly 

 infuscate, occasionally almost Mack, while quite rarely they are 

 almost uniform cinereous. The general tone is undoubtedly a 

 response to the environment, those from sand) or clayey soils, as at 

 Bomerville, Live Oak, Greensboro and Fredericksburg, showing 

 the paler shades, bui this is n<>t absolute, as individuals from Jackson- 

 ville taken on bare white sand} soil are \.r\ dark. Apparently the 

 : moisture in the soil produces no response in color, as the 



material from Augusta, which W8S taken in open, mod. lately dr\ 



pine woods, averages darker than that from Bomerville which was 

 taken on damp sandy ground. 



From the mapped distribution of tin- species it will be seen that 

 the northern boundary of its range is in the Upper Austral sone, 

 probably being the upper boundary of that uthward the 




1 II 



l'Uix I I DINGS OF THE \' \1>K\I\ OF 



April. 



form extending over the Lower Austral, Babalian and Subtropical 



a and in the southern Alleghanies working up into the Transition, 



where it occurs as 1 1 i u; 1 1 as 5,500 feet on Koan Mountain, North 



Carolina, and 4.000 4.800 feel on Rabun Bald. Rabun County, 



Georgia. In detail its known distribution extends from Staten 



[aland, New York, Jamesburg, New Jersey, and Willow Grove and 



Pink Hill. Pennsylvania, south to southern Florida (Miami and Co- 



coanul Grove), wesi to central Eowa (Ames), east-central Oklahoma 



South McAlester) and east-central Texas (( lolumbus). Ames, Iowa, 



and Bloomington, Indiana, are the most northern known localities in 



the Mississippi Valley region. 



The species is generally distributed in a variety of environments, 



these varying from distinctly saturated soil to sandy loams and bare 



white sand areas, from hare humus and sand to areas of short green 



grasses, dry wire grass to low bushes and foot-high grasses. It also 



occurs in open meadowy areas, palmetto Hats and again under 



long-leaf and short-leaf pines and gums. 



Neotettix bolteri Hancock. 



A i nil ttix kancocki Blatchley. 

 Neotettix coarctatus Hancock. 

 Apotettix minuius Helm A: II chard. 



Virginia. 

 Petersburg, VII. 23, 1913, (R. & II.), 

 1-' o", 99. 



North Carolina. 

 .Goldaboro, VII, 2.5, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 o" • -1 • 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 - 



South Carolina. 



Manning, V, 23, 1914, (Witmer Stone), 



l ', 1 . . [A. X. S. P.]. 



Sullivan Maud. IX. 5, I'.H I. I R. & H.), 



Hi '. 10 9, 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 

 Yemassee, IX. I. 1911, K. & II. i, 1 d". 



Georgia. 

 Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 St. Simon's Island, IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



J, C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 <?. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 9. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 3 9. 

 Fort Reed, IV, 20, 1876, 32 1 9, [Hebard 



Cln.l. 



The remarks made under the generic treatment wall explain the 

 above Bynonymy. We find that none of the specimens of the species 

 taken from northern Florida northward are of the form with the 

 caudate pronotum, but that the series from south and central Florida 

 (Hancock's coarctatus) -how about 20 per cent, of the caudate type, 



"This specimen is labelled "Batrach. cristata Harris" on one of Scudder's 

 labels iti hi.- handwriting. Probably all of the material reported by Scudder 

 from that locality under that name (Proc. Bo8t.Soc. Nat. Hot.. XIX. p. 90, ' 1877).) 

 should be referred to bolU 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



In the latter lot the proportionate difference in this respect between 

 the sexes is slight. Here, as mfemoratus, it is possible thai immediate 

 environment is the responsible factor for the development of the 

 caudate type or the alternative abbreviate one. 



In south and central Florida this species varies away from the 

 more northern type in tin- slightly more compressed form, the break- 

 ing up of the usually linear, strumose pronotal ridges into less elongate 

 scabrosities, while in the abbreviate individuals the caudal process 

 of the pronotum is more acute. The importance, even relatively, 

 of these differences is discounted when we examine the entire series 

 before us ami find that specimens from Sullivan Island, South < larolina, 

 and Wrightsville, North Carolina, are as compressed as the south 

 Florida individuals, while representatives from other* larolina localities 

 are no more strongly strumose, and just as angulate caudad on the 

 pronotum, as in the SOUth and central Florida material. The width 



of the fastigium and the tegminal length and width vary so individu- 

 ally in a series from any locality, that no diagnostic weight can be placed 

 upon any of these features. In the strongly accentuated condition this 

 es oc.-ur- in northern Florida and southern Georgia, north and 

 south of which a certain portion of the material is less strikingly 

 marked, although a large pan or the larger part is decidedly typical 

 of the species, but in all of the specimens examined the recognition 

 of the material i- not difficult, except in the case of SOUth and central 



Florida individual-. With these, however, we feel that the characters 

 given in the key will enable the student to separate boltem from 

 femoratus. Doubtless environment is responsible for most of the 

 differences mentioned above, a- it probably i- to a degree for 

 difference, but in tin- there i- much of an individual character, as 

 material from the same environment at the same locality -how-. 



The variation in the form of the frontal costa found in femoratus 

 i- parallelled in the presenl species, the regularly diverging tj pe being 

 the normal form, the scutellate type the exception. The coloratioo 

 varies a- 'mfemoratus, but a- a rule in a lessei 



The range of this species in 'he southeastern State- i- mnv known 

 to ex ten. | from Petersburg, Virginia, south to Key West, Florida, wesl 

 to Pensacola Baj Warrington and Fort Barrancas . Florida, and in- 

 land as far as Spring < !reek,( leorgia and Faj etteville, North ' larolina. 



It I- thus -een to be limited tn the Lower .\u-tr;il, Sabahali and Sub- 

 tropical /on.-, probably ranging t.. eastern Texas and certainly up 

 the Mississippi Valley as far a- southwestern Indiana. Previous to 

 this writing bolten was only known from Florida. 




146* PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: \< \m:\n OF [April, 



Thia species occurs in as greal a variety of habitats as femwatus, 

 having been taken in marshy sink holes, among grasses in marshy 

 spots near streams and lakes (Petersburg and Fayetteville), in wet 



weedy spots and among low undergrowth in short-leaf pine w Is 



Goldsboro and Yemassee), in heavy palmetto and live-oak jungle 

 (Atlantic Beachb among undergrowth on dunes and in bare spots 

 on harrier beaches (Tybee and Sullivan Islands and Wrightsvill< 



Paratettix rugosus (Soudder). 



- Simon's Island, Georgia, IV, 22-V, Jacksonville, Florida, T. .1 Priddey) 

 12, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 19. 3 '. 49, [Hebard Cln.]. 



We have also examined a pair from Fort Reed, Florida, deter- 

 mined as this Bpecies by Scudder. All of the specimens of the 

 • in series have the pronotum caudate. 



Tyl.ee Island and St. Simon's [aland are the most northern points 

 in the eastern State- from which the species is known. 



Paratettix cucullatus (BurmeiBter). 



Virginia. Tallulah Falls. VII. 1910, (W. T. 



< tram:.-. VII, 21, 1913, (R. & B.), 2 f. Davis), 1 9. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, II. & Foccoa, Mil. 22, 1909, 1 ". Ga 



H. . 8 ',9 9,8 juv. State Cln.]. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



North Carolina. 1913, (R. & YD, 1 9. 



Tryon, V. 21 to 31, (W. F. Fiske) Albany, VIII, 1, 1913. (R. A: H.), 



-' ', 2 ?, Q. S. X. M.]. 4 cf, 39. 



Lake Waccamaw. IX, 8, 1911, (R. & Spring Creek. VI, 7-23. 1911; VII, 



II . 1 • 19. 16-29, 1912; VIII, 26 28, 1913, 



.1 C. Bradley), 22 ', 22 i . 1 juv. 



Georgia. Bainbridge, IX'. 3-7, 1910; IX. 17-X, 



Rabun County, VII, L910, (W. T. 19, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 2 <?, 59, 



Davis . 2 '. 3 9. 1 juv. 



From this material it is evident th'at cucullatus varies individually 

 quite a little in general size in both sexes, and also to an appreciable 

 -• in the rugosity of the dorsum of the pronotum. The general 

 color varies considerably in tone, through brownish black- and 

 brown- to dull ochre shades, with mottled individuals rather infre- 

 quent and "collared" specimens quite rare. * The posthumeral 

 paired triangular velvety black areas are not strongly indicated in 

 the greater proportion of the specimens and absent in a considerable 

 number. 



The Thomasville specimens previously recorded by us as texann 



we find od re-examination and comparison to be cucullatus. 



At Fredericksburg the species was found to be rather scarce along 

 the sandy edge of a stream near the Rappahannock River. At 



• M 1 :■ Nat. S< i Phila., L904, p. 782, 1905 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 147 



Lake Waccamaw it occurred on the sandy shore of the lake and at 

 Albany on eroded limestones and -and bars along the Flint River, 

 at the former locality associated with Acrydium a. arenosum. 



Paxilla obesa (Scudder). 



North Carolii go, VIII, 31. 1913. 1 juv. 9, [Ga. 



Wilmington. IX, 8, 1911. K. & II . Bt. On.]. 



1 j, r . Bomerville, VIII, 27, 1911, J: & II . 



South Carolina. 6 o^i l" 5 , 6 juv. ', 13 juv. 9. 



Yemassee, IX, 4. 1911, R & II. . Florida. 



20 '• 17 ?, I juv. y. s juv. 9. Jacksonville, IV. L885, W B. Ash- 



gia, mead ,2 9, T J. Priddey . 2 ', 



Bebardville, V, 15, L915, II . 2 '; ,, ''"'-''^d Cln.J. 



VIII, 28, 1911, B. ,2 ?,2juv . HastuigB, A. J Brown), 33 



Billy's laknd, VIII. 31, 1913; .1 " JUV ' [Moree < ln - ] ' 

 Bradley . 1 juv. 5 . 



It is interesting to note that at the two localities where large series 

 of the present insect were found by us, the only two large Beries oi 

 T< ttigidea prorsa were taken. The present species appears to be entirely 

 confined in distribution to the Sabalian and Tropical zones where it 

 is further restricted to low, blackish, water-soaked ground covered 

 with low bog plants (sun-dews, pitcher plants, etc.), in phu 

 woods (long-leaf pine at all of the localities except Yemassee, where 

 the forest was composed of the short-leaf Bpecies which is sometimes 

 found in this region Dear swamps), so that even in it- limited range 

 it- distribution is markedly discontinuous. This species has been 

 irded northward as far as New Berne, North Carolina, and south- 

 ward to Detroit, Florida, while De Puniak Springs, Florida, is the 

 most westerly published record. 



All but two of the series taken at Bomerville were captured in 

 an area a few yards in diameter, where the peculiar vegetation 

 described above flourished, wide search through the swampy under- 

 growth of the pine wood- elsewhere revealed only two young. 



Tettigidea pror»a - udd< r. 



Tettigidea proraa elongate Morse, Jour. V V. Bnt. Boc., III. i> L6 



\nrili Carolina. 



etteville, IX, 9, 191 1 , R & II . Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, I: a ll . i . 



1 . Bebardville, \ . 15, L915, II I 

 Wilmington, IX, B, 1911, [R. A II . Suwanne VIII, 28, 1911, R & 



2 ju\ III 



Bomerville, VIII. 27, 191 1, R. d II 



Yemassee, IX, 1. 1911, R. 4 II 

 27 I jui 



• 



This aberrant to I"- :i primitive form, as immature 




lis PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: k< \tu.\n OF [April, 



iplee of '/'. lateralis showing a somewhat clover structural simi- 

 larity to this species than do adults of that insect. Morse's name 

 elongate was proposed for the individuals of this species having a 



late pronotum; three male- and one female from Yeiii.i- 

 South Carolina, are of this phase. 



The majority of the adults have the dorsal surface of the pronotum 

 somewhat lighter brown in coloration than the lateral Lobes <>f the 

 same, only seven individuals are unicolorous and darker, while but 

 one female (Ilomerville) ha- the dorsal surface of the pronotum 

 unusually pale and tawny-olive in tone. 



The present insect has been found from Beach Haven, New Jersey, 

 to extreme southern Georgia. Its distribution is discontinuous, 

 though not to the degree of that of Paxilla obesa, for while it has 

 been found to prefer areas in the pine woods of low, blackish, water- 

 soaked ground covered with low bog plants (Wilmington, Yema- 

 see, Homerville), it has also been taken in various low grasses near 

 ••hammock" land (Augusta, Hebardville, Suwannee Creek, Homer- 

 ville) and in swamp grasses along a wooded stream (Fayetteville). 

 The specimen from Augusta was taken just below the fall line among 

 long-leaf pine-. 



Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



Florida. Alabama. 



Florida. (Morrison), 6 9, type, para- Alabama, (Morrison), 2 d" , 4 9, 

 typt and scries taken with these, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Hebard ' Louisiana 



Jacksonville. T. J. Priddey), 2 9, „ __. ,. ' ' ,„ . 



Hebard Cln.]. New Orleans, (( oleinan), 2 9 , [Hebard 



Pablo Beach. IV, 8, (P. Laurenl .19, rln -]- 



Hebard Cln.!. 



Morse in his original description gives "intermediate in structure 

 of vertex between a jiiciihita and armata, but more nearly allied to 

 the latter." This is true in respect to the vertex, but in the total 

 of characters the relationship to apiculata is much more decided, 

 the pre-, nt in-ect being apparently a less strongly developed form 

 of a common stock. The more arcuate character of the dorsum of 

 the pronotum in transverse section between the humeral angles is 

 one of the most apparent characters to distinguish this species from 

 T. armata, from which insect it further differs in the characters 

 given by More 



Specimens referred to this species by the authors from the vicinity 



"Jour. A. }'. Era. Soc., 111. [». 108, (1895). 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 



of Thomasville, Georgia, are in the present paper correctly placed 

 under T. armata. 



A peculiar color type in which the pronotum has a pale medio- 

 longitudinal marking which is narrowesi between the shoulder-, 

 i- found in the Pablo Beach specimen. This type of coloration i- 

 not found in the races of T. lateralis. 



In the Sabalian zone the presenl inseel i< one of the scarcer species. 

 For the southeastern United States, "Georgia" was the most western 

 locality hitherto known. 

 Tettigidea lateralis lateralis (Say). 



1838. T[etrix polymorpha Burmeister, Bandb. En torn., II. Abth. 2, Pt. 1. 



pp. 659 South < Jarolis 



1902. Tettigidea mediaiis Bancock, Tettig. N. Amer., p. L52 Southern 



Illinois; Missouri; Tennessee; Louisiana. 



\ • ./• 

 Ortley, IV. 16, L903, H. L. Viereck . 

 l \ \ S. P 



ird'e I orgt . I\. 16, 1905, II . 

 - 



B 

 n City, IV, 19, 1903, II. L. 

 Vier< \ N 8 P 



Cape May, VII. ft, L908, II L. 

 ■ ., . 1 ■. [A. X. S. P 



!>■ la 



Rehoboth, VI, 8. 1908, B Long . 

 1 AN. S. P.J. 



'and. 

 Chestertown, VIII. 18, 24, 27, 



E. G Vanatta . 1 



\ 

 ll ittsville, VIII. l }. A. V CaudeU), 



I iu> .1 S. N. M 



\\ ishington, D. C, IV, IX. 1883 84 

 13 ',149, [Hebard Cln.J. 



■ml. 



Franklin City, \ I. 24, 1907 B Long . 



, '. - P 

 I redericksburg, \ II. 20, 1913, R 



II 5 1 . . - i ■ : v '..;.. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, R A II . 1 d\ 



. 

 P ( u : '■ irg, V II 23 1913, R d II 



■ 

 Lynchburg \ II, 22 1913, R d M . 



1 jir. 



North Carolii 



Weldon, \ II. 24, 1913, R & II 



1 -. I 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, R & H . 

 nsboro, VII, 26, 1913, l: . & II 



Fayetteville, X, 9, 1911, R. & H. 



2 ■. 1 v. :i ju- 

 Charlotte, VII, 27. 1913, R. & II 



Wilmington, IX. 8, I'M I, R. & B 



2 ■. I . 

 W inter Park, IX. 7. 1 '.Ml. R All . 



I ' 



Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, R <S II 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. B, 1911, I: d 



II . ::» ', 20 i . 8 juv. 



• th < 'arolina. 



tanburg, VIII, 6, 1913 II . 1 " 

 Florence, [X, 6, 1911, I: a ll . I . 

 Columbia, \ II. 28, 1913, R & II 



- 

 Manning, \ . 23, 191 I W - 



I . . \ \ 8 P 



Sullivan Island, IX. 5, 1911, R & II 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, R d 



II l ■. l . . 



Yema — IX. 1, 1911, R d ll 



■ 



i: ibun County, V II, 1910, w I 



Davi i juv. '. 5 juv . 



ton, V, 18, 26, 191 1, 2,000 

 I C Bradlej I ' 1 



\ . 15, I'M I J I Bi tdl< 



l • 



I of intermediates from < h been 



I ■ " 1 1 



11 




IfiO PROCEEDINGS 01 mi &.< \iu\n OF | April, 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, i: a h . Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, l: a 11.), 



l •. i . 7 o", 89, 5 i"\ . 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain. VIII, 3, Albany, VIII, I, L913, R & 11 ,2c?, 



1913, I: .v H . 7 ". 7 • l juv 



Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, R. & II . De Witt, VIII, 19, 1912, 19, [Ga. 



l juv State Cln.]. 



Summerville, 1 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. Bainbridge, VII, 15, 1912, J. C. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, R & H.), Bradley), 19. 



•• • i Spring Creek, VI, 7 23, VII, 16 29, 



Columbus, VII, in. 1913, (J. C. Brad- 1911-12, (J. C. Bradlej . 5 \ 5 9, 



I juv. l juv. o\ 1 juv. 9. 



Jesup, 1\. 1. 1911, R a II.), 6 d\ ,,, ., 



3 9, 1 jw Florida. 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, R. & H.), Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 5 d\ 



•'■(,:; juv. . 109. [Hebard Cln.]; IX, 7. L913, 



BebardvUle, V. 15, L915, B . 2 d\ (W. T. Davis), 1 cf. 



1 9 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, R, 4 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, II. I. s o\ 2 9 , 2 juv. 9 . 



iR. a II 2 . 29. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. ^V H.), 



Album's Hammock, Okeefenokee I juv. 9. 



Swamp, V, 16, 1915, B.), 4 o", 3 9 , St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



1 juv. o". Englehardt), 19, [B. I.]. 



Burmeister'a name polymorpka has long been known to be a 

 synonym of Say'- lateralis, but since he described two forms, the 

 caudate and abbreviate phases of the present insect, efforts have 

 been made to retain this name for one of these. The uselessness 

 of employing names for such phases has already been commented 

 upon in the present paper. 



Examination of extensive northern series of the present insect 

 convince- us that they belong to a valid geographic race, Tettigidea 

 lateralis parvipennis (Harris). 36 which is exceedingly close to the 

 southern insect, but typical material from northern New England 37 

 may be separated from typical material of T. lateralis lateralis, 

 described from Georgia and East Florida, by the following characters: 

 form more robust; antennae heavier, joints not more than twice 

 as long as broad; frontal costa heavier; outline of dorsum of prono- 

 fcum more decidedly broken cephalad of humeral angles, these angles 

 more pronounced. Under this geographic race falls the name given 

 for it- caudate phase T[ettigidea] parvipennis pennata Morse. 38 



The large' series before u- -how conclusively that, a- the races 

 approach one another in distribution, their differential characters 

 become less and less appreciable; the material before us from the 

 pine barrens and adjacent coastal strip of New .Jersey, from Delaware, 

 Maryland and northern Virginia, the series which we have recorded 



(•Morse discusses this question in Jour. N. V. Km. Soc, III, p. lo'.t, [s«).j . 

 37 Material from numerous localities in Pennsylvania and from the Delaware 

 River -trip of New Jersey, now before us, is practically typical of the northern race. 

 njour \ V I III. p. 109, L895 




1916.] NATURAL .-< I KM ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 5 1 



previously from Sulphur Springs 2.000 feet) and Mount Pisgafa 

 (4.500 feel , North Carolina, and the high country of northern 

 Georgia, is all intermediate in character. Hancock ha- based his 

 "variety" Tettigidea medialis on such material from southern Illinois, 

 Missouri, Tennessee and Louisiana. We strongly question the 

 Louisiana material being intermediate, for the mat. rial before us 

 from that State is typical of T. lateralis lateralis. The us 

 of a name for intermediates between weakly defined orographic 

 races doc- not require comment. 



Material taken in heavy foresl near streams or in swampy pla 

 show- a strong predominance of the abbreviate phase Weldon and 

 Lake Waccamaw, North ( larolina : Thomasville, < leorgia ' . A female 

 before us from Charlotte, North Carolina, ha- the wings abnormally 

 produced, reaching 3.8 nun. beyond the caudate pronotum and 14 mm. 

 in total length. The presenl inseel is distributed everywhere through 

 _ 3ses and herbage of meadow, forest, swamp and marsh, usually 

 found most numerous in and about damp situations. < >f typical series 

 before us 90. 0' , is caudate, this percentage excluding the three series 

 discussed at the beginning of the paragraph. Besides the 367 

 individual- of the present species recorded above, we have before 

 us 223 other specimens previously recorded from the southeastern 

 United State- and from as far west as Louisiana. 

 The largest series of intermediate- before us (Washington, District 

 Columbia; Ashe ville, North Carolina) include a majority of speci- 

 mens having the dorsal surface of the pronotum paler in coloration 

 than the lateral lobes, ranging in different specimens from snuff brown 

 and russet through clay color to cream color. Three of these speci- 

 mens have the caudal femora broadly banded, four have a large spot 

 in a similar position, while a number have the entire caudal femora 

 of the same -hade of the dorsum of the pronotum. Nearly half of 

 the remaining large -eric- of the present insect are unicolorous black- 

 ish brown, while almost all of the other specimens have the dorsum 

 of the pronotum only slightly paler, usually unicolorous but occasion- 

 ally somewhat mottled, and the caudal femora wholly uniform or 

 inspicuously marked. All of the males have the face and ventral 

 portion of the lateral lobes of the pronot um nearly or quite clear white. 



Tettigidea armata M 



1895 Tettiffulea a mala <l> />■■ - III p ln7 



Indiana; Jacksonville, St. Jonn'i Rivet ind Fl R 

 Florida; I 



orded in pari bj Hebard 



\\ p, 1 15, I 




152 PB0CEBDING8 OF mi \' \i>i.\n OF I April, 



L908. tettigidea davisi Morse, Psyche, XV, p. 25. [Perth Amboy and 

 Jamesburg, Ne* Jersey; Staten island, Ww York.] 



New York-. ci ; .yt..n. 2,000 feet, \ . 18-26, L911, 



3 n Wand, I\. I. VI, 5, tX, 1897 £■ * '• 1 f r: ' , . 1 1 l V>.; ' .,',.. , , r ,,,..„, 



LI \\ T. davis), 2 \ 29, Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J, C. Brad- 



paratypes <>!' T. dm it M . ,!''> '■. . . , . .. , , , 



1 •' Mixon a Hammock, UkeeienoKee 



V< ■'■ • Swan,!., V, 16, I'M.",, (II , 3 ', 6 



\ \ S. P . Waycross, V, 8, L911, (J. C. Bradlej 

 Perth Amboy, V, 31, W . T. Davis), i #. 



I ',19, paratypes of T. davisi Thomasville, II. 29, III. 29, [V, L, 9, 

 Morse. ■ XII. I l. L903 04, (H.), 6 ' 8 



ih Carolina. Spring Creek, V 1 , 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, L911, (R. & H.), Bradley); 19. 



i juv. 9 • Florida 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), .^^.^ IV , ^ (W . H . . Ul _ 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & "h™ 1 '. >. • I,;,, " : l , I , i v ' H ' ,°! J,', T "" 



! 2 .. 2 iuv. d", -4 juv. 9. depressa Morse, [Hebard Un.J. 



South Carolina. Louisiana. 



Florence, IX, 6, L911, (R. & H.), New Orleans, (Coleman), 4 9 , 1 para- 



II d\ 9 9, 6 juv. d\ 10 iuv. 9. type of T. armata depresm Morse ; 



Geo/ ., ; ,„. (Saltan), 2cf,29, [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (\V. T. 

 Davi< . 1 o*. 



A- Tettigidea armata depressa is based solely on the abbreviate 

 form of armata, the name is placed in the synonymy here. 



Morse's Tettigidea davisi, referred to in his original description as 

 "an undescribed form or species of this genus, related to armata 

 Morse," was separated by "the customary lack of a cuspidate point 

 on the front margin of the pronotum .... occasionally showing 

 variation- toward a cuspidate condition" and also slightly different 

 tegmina, in other respects being typical of armata. 



The series before us shows that the cuspidate condition of the 

 cephalic margin of the dorsum of the pronotum is variable in the 

 presenl insect; the following table of percentages gives the degree 

 in the larger series we have examined. 



Strongly Moderately Weakly Angulate, 



cuspidate cuspidate cuspidate. no cusp 



(fig. 5). (fig. 4). (fig. S). 



New Jersey 6 94 



North Carolina 84 10 4 2 



South Carolina .76 18 2 4 



< leorgifl 70 28 2 



nana 100 



The above figures show that, although there are indications of an 

 incipient divisioD in the present species, no valid geographic race 

 yet exists. The table does not mean that four types of this species 

 occur, for every -hade of intergradation exists and the four columns 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L53 



are solely for the convenience of the student; thus in the New 

 Jersey series noticeable varial ion toward a weakly cuspidate condition 

 is discernible, while in the materia] from Louisiana, though all are 

 of the strongly cuspidate condition, the degree differs individually. 

 Were it not for the fact that large series taken in restricted localities 

 -how in several instances forms typical of both armata and davisi, 

 we would be led to consider the latter a valid geographic rare 

 The only other character- given for davisi, tegminal abbreviation 

 and size of the tegminal spot, are even more variable in the presenl 

 species than the character discussed above, and we are consequently 

 obliged to place davisi in the synonymy under the presenl speci< 3. 



The abbreviate condition in the presenl species is more common 

 than the caudate phase; this is constant throughout the insect's 

 distribution and is very probably due to immediate environment. 

 The degree of cuspidation of the cephalic margin of the pronotum 

 is found to vary least in caudate individuals, none of these lacking 

 the usual cuspidation. 



The species has been found in -cant swamp-grasses along "branch" 

 Fayetteville), common on hare. Mack swamp soil hake Waccamaw), 

 occasional on grassy edges of swamp hake Waccamaw), in low, wet, 

 sandy spots along streams Florence, Wrightsville, Thomasville) 

 and occasional on sandy soil covered with scant grasses and dead 

 oak leaves Mixon's Hammock). This insect prefer- much more 

 swampy situations than does T. lateralis, and the larger series here 

 recorded were only secured by long and careful search in favorable 

 and always much restricted areas. At Florence the following held 

 note was made: "The Tettigidea would often jump into the water 

 and drift down with the current, quite motionless until they would 



strike a twig or root to which they would cling. Their appearance 

 exactly like a bit of twig or bark floating down stream." The 

 Bpecies has been recorded from Staten Island, New York, south to ex- 

 treme -out hem Florida and westward as far as Riverside, Illinois; 

 Howe, < Oklahoma, and I Dallas, Ti 



Radinotatum brevipenne brevipenne [Tl 



South < \l icon, \ , i '. i i S. N. M 



, ... .,,.. D . u \ II. 30, mi:;. I: a ll . I \ 



I \. I 191 1, i: a ll . ., . . ., 



- J" v - '• ' J"' [ale of He,',," ill, R a ll 



Gem ;!!''. i\. .;. 1911, i: a ii 



\ [] 29 1913, i: .v II . juv 

 r, juv. '. :'. ju ip, IX, I. 191 1. I: a ll 



\\ inn Springs. 850 1,20 III. 1 iuv, i ; Ml, 1908, II 



B LO 1913, I: . 5 juv ". ju 1 ju\ 




154 pboceedinos of 1 1 ik academy of [April, 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, II . Florida. 



BomerviSe, VIII, 27, 1911, (B & II Jacksonville, V, 1885, (W. jB. Ash- 



mead . l . . [Hebard ( In.]; VIII, 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1916, (H.), 6 \ ? 5 ' l ?"'J T k * '-' '■ '. , j " v u ' 



jiiv. , ■ : XI, ... 5, I'M... \\ , I 



f. viii, 28, 1911, CR.4 ' ):| ;^ •' •■ l JE"i . ■ \;;\\ ,. . 



II ., • Atlantic Beach, XIII. _M. l'.ti I. I: & 



BuVs Island, Vl, VII. 1912. 2 D ?;>' V u \ \. , , ,„,, ... ... 



IX. 1 :.. 1913, 1 juv. -. ,11 .1. C PaWo Beach, M. . 1911, (W. 1. 



Bradlev Davis). 1 juv. . 1 juv. 9. 



Honey Inland, VI. I. 1912, (J. C. Live Oak, VIII 26, 1911, (R. & II 



Bradlei v very 8maU 1UV " s,v "- 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & II.. Cedar Keys, VI, 1 c?, [U. S. N. M.]. 



1 juv. 7, 4 juv. 9 . 

 Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 

 Iley .19. 



The immature examples before us taken in Augusl and September 

 are almost all in the instar in which females arc 17-18 nun. in length, 

 pting those from Augusta, Warm Springs, Macon ami Albany, 

 Georgia, in which scries females average 13 mm. and five from Au- 

 gusta ami Albany average 8 mm. The majority of young from Georgia 

 and northern Florida taken in November and December show little 

 increase in size over those taken in August, females measuring 

 20 21 nun. in length, though the following instars are also represented 

 by females measuring 26 and 32 mm., respectively. It is in these 

 later stages of development that the insects remain, and are active 

 pt <>n the coldest days, throughout the winter in southern Georgia 

 and northern Florida, adults beginning to appear toward the middle 

 of April. The presence in the series of an adult female taken in 

 November -how- that occasional mature individuals continue even 

 into the early winter, but evidence shown by past and present study 

 gives convincing proof that the species appears adult over the greater 

 part of it- range in late April and mature individuals have become 

 scarce as early a- August. In central Florida, however, the species 

 passes the winter in the adult condition. 



An interesting feature in the development of the male subgenital 

 plate i- demonstrated by the present series. Immature males, 

 until they have reached a length of L2.5 nun., have this plate very 

 short, not projecting beyond the apex of the abdomen, .with caudal 

 margin acute-angulate emarginate; in the following instar (length 

 L8 nun. the attenuate and greatly produced subgenital plate of the 

 type of the adult insect appears. 



In the large series of immature example- before us, those of the 

 brown color phase are somewhat more numerous than those marked 

 with green. 




1916.1 



NATURAL S< tEN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



L55 



The species within its range is widely distributed throughout the 

 undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forests and has sometimes been 

 observed to frequent somewhat damp situations. It has also been 

 found in diort grass of waste land (below fall line, Augusta), in 

 sandy tract of scrub oaks (just above fall line, Augusta . in mixed 

 oak and pine woods suggesting New Jersey pine barrens 'Warm 

 Springs) and in sandy field of short grass (Atlantic Beach). In 

 central Florida the species intergrades with it- geographic race 

 B. 6 peninsulare; north of that State the previous known 



rds for the species were Savannah, Waycross and Thomasville, 

 Georgia, and Greenville, Alabama. 



Tryxalis brevicornis (Linnseua). 



Maryland. 

 rtown, VIII, L6 27, 1899 1902, 

 i. - , \ inatta .1 ',99, [A. X. 



- P 



in iv, VIII. 7. 1902, 

 1. I . \ aatta . I ', A. N. S P. 

 Washington. I> C., IX. 1883, 2 '. 

 Cln.]. 



! \ II 20, L913, i: & 

 II ,2 . 2 \vn 

 Natural Bridge, IX, L2-13, L907, 

 P, Long V. N. S. P.]. 



. . II .'.. 1913, I: -v II. . 



1 jir. 



North Carolina. 

 I ville, IX. 9, 1911, I: & II , 



l 



boro \ II. 26, 1913, I: 6 1 1 , 

 1 ju-. 



Uh Carolina. 

 . VIII, <■ L913, II . 

 1 jir. 

 ! IX. 6, 1911, R. & II . I ' 



Rabun County, \ II. 1910 W 



1. 



Davis l '. 1 juv. 

 Thompson's Mills, X. 1908-09, H. A. 



Alh.nl ,2 2 U.S. IS M 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, \I1I. 3, 



1913, I: a II . l -.29. 

 Atlanta, VII, 29, 1910, I ', [Ga. 



Stair Cln.]. 

 Silver Lake, VIII, 10, 1913, l juv. i . 



- teCln.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, R & II 



1 •. 

 Savannah, X" III. 7. 1878 



I • p S. N. M.]. 

 Columbus, VII, 16, 1913, J C. Brad- 

 ley .1 •. 

 Chase Prairie, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



IX. .".. 1913, J. C. Bradlej . I 



Alabama. 

 31 imek ,19, Hebard < 'In 1 . 



Florida. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, B A 



'I 1 \ 



Material from tin- Atlantic coasl shows a Blighl increase in 

 southward, the more robust individuals from southern Georgia and 

 from Florida have somewhal larg and a broader vertex 



Males measure in length as follows: Vuglesea, X-w Jersey, 19 22 

 mm.; Asheville, North Carolina 2,000 feel L9.7 22.8 near Atlanta, 



1,000 feel . L9.2 21.6; Florence, South Carolina, 21.7 

 Atlanl !'•• :■ -ii. Florid 26.3 mm. 



1 specimens are in the brown phase, two males and two young 

 from Fredericksburg and one female from Fayetteville; all of the 

 : specimens are of the more usual coloration. 




156 



OF 1 in. \< \m.\i\ "i 



[April, 



The present insecl is very locally distributed in marshland. \i 

 Fredericksburg it was found in high wet grasses in an upland depres- 

 sion. The Bpecies has been recorded from Long Island, New York, 

 ami Point Pelee, Ontario, Bouth to the Argentine Republic. 



Mermiria alacris Scudder. 



North Carolina. 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, L911, (R. 4 H.j 

 irce in gallberry and wire-grass 

 under scattered Bhort-leaf pint 



ocf. 

 3 thern Pines, early XI. L908, A. II. 



Manee .1 '. I i : 1905, 2 X 19, 



all X. ('. Dept. Agr.]. 

 Wilmington, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & II.: 



in long-leaf pine woods), 1 dX 

 Winter Park, IX. 7. 1911, (R. & B.j 



common in pine woods), 11 ■". 12 ?. 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1 911, l; a II ; 



in grasses in short-leaf pine w l- ; . 



1 -.19. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H.: in short-leaf pine woods under- 

 growth . 1 o*. 



Smith Carolina. 

 Columbia, VII. 28, L913, R. & H.; 

 m grass bunches on bare area), 



2 juv. ; . 



Ashley Junction. VIII, L5, L913, (R.; 



in tall brush in long-leaf pine woods), 



lcf. 

 Yemassee, IX. 1. L911, R. & II.: in 



undergrowth in short-leaf pine 



woods . 1 dX 



Toccoa, 



Georgia. 

 VIII, 4-:.. 1913, II 



38. vines and oak sprouts in 



clearing), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, L913. (R. & H.; in 



grasses in Bandy scrub-oak area and 



in short grasses in old overj 



fields), 1 ". 8 iuv. •. 1 juv 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R & II 



t iuv. ". l jui 

 Jesup, IX. 1. L911, (R. & II.: in pine 



wood- undergrowth i, 4 dX 

 Billy's Island, VI and VII, 1912, I C 



Bradley), 1 X ."> juv. ". 3 juv 

 Albany, IX, 1910, 1 9, [Ga. State 



Cln.]; VIII, 1. 1913, (R. & II.: in 



undergrowth of pine wood- . 2 

 Bambridge, (J. C. Bradley . 1 . Ga 



State Cln.]. 

 Spring ('nek, VII, 10-29, 1912, .1 C. 



Bradley), 2 \ 3 juv. <?, 1 iuv. 9, 



[( la. State Cln.]. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville. VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & II.: 

 in undergrowth of pine and among 

 scrub oak on very sandy soil i, 20 '. 

 7 T. J. Priddey), I X [Hebard 



<ln |; \ III. 1885 and 1886, W. II. 

 Ashmead), 1 dX 2 9, [Hebard Cln.]; 

 IX. 28, 1913, (W. T. Da vi- . 1 ' 

 and 1 9 in coitu, [Davis Cln.]. 



Titusville, XI. 8, L911, (W. T Davis), 

 1 9, [Davis Cln.]. 



We have examined, in the Scudder Collection, two males and three 

 females of the original scries of two males and four females on which 

 Scudder founded hia Mermiria vigilans. In consequence we can 

 fully endorse Morse's synonymy of vigilans underthe present species. 40 

 At a later date we will speak in more detail of the variability of this 

 interesting dry-land form. 



The known distribution of alacris in the eastern State- extends 



from east-central and central (Salisbury, on the basis of immature 



individual- not seen by us) North Carolina and northern Georgia 



Toccoa . south to central Florida (Cedar Keys, Sanford and Titus- 



vffl< 



, ms1 Wash., Pubi. 68, p. 27, L907). 




L916.1 



NATURAL S( II .\< ES "1 PHILADELPHIA. 



15 < 



Mermiria intertexta Bcudder. 



n in . 

 Ocean View, VIII. 9, A X. Caudell), 

 I ',19, [U. S. X. M 



North Carolii 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, (R. & II.: 



in sail marsh vegetation . 1 

 Smith Island, X. L906, I'. Sherman), 

 N. C. Depi \. 



South Cnroli mi. 

 ( !oas1 of South Carolina. 1 ', [E 



Cln.]. 

 Isle of Palm-. VIII, 15, 1913, I!.: in 



-hin <>ak. bayberry, palmetto and 



hriar thi.-k.-t- among dunes . 1 



1 . . 



gia. 

 Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, R & B.; 



fairly plentiful in high grasses 



growing in water on edge of -ah 

 marsh ,27 ', 12 9; VII, 26, 1913, 

 1 juv. . - te Cln.]. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, T. .1. Priddey . _' 



Bebard Cln.]. 

 South Jacksonville, IX. 7. I'M:;. 



\\ T. Davis ,5 ,2 9, Davis 



Cln. . 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, R. & 



II. : fairly common in high sai - 



and reeds in marsh .11 

 Pablo Beach, IX. 3 17. 1913, \\ T 



Davis . 7 'avis 



Long Boat, Sarasot 



- ite Cln.]. 

 I'-cppa Island, Charlotte Barbor, \ 



17-19, 1915, II . 1 juv. \ Bebard 



Cln 



This is the species recorded by us from Pablo Beach and Cedar 

 Keys, Florida as vigilans. 4 * It is distinctly a hygrophilous species, 

 found in both fresh and salt marsh situations, but occasionally -'ray- 

 inn into adjacent dune vegetation. 



Mermiria bivittata Serville. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, VII, 1912, J. C. Bradley), 1 9 , LN.S.P 



In addition to this specimen, we have before us six males and two 

 females labelled, "Georgia. II. K. Morrison," from the Scudder 

 Collection and that of the United States National Museum, tl 

 from the former having be< o correctly determined as this species bj 

 Scudder. The male from Fort Barrancas, Florida, correctly recorded 

 by Morse, 4 * i- also before us. The single male specimen from Pablo 

 Beach, Florida, recorded by the present aut I belongs 



to this species, the exact relationship of which has never been clearly 

 determined. In the uear future we intend to critically study this 

 genus in it- entirety. 



The present species is only known in the southeastern States, 

 east of Alabama, from the localities mentioned above and from 

 1 1 • ock North ( irolii 3h< rman and Briml< 



Syrbula admirabilis ' 



Arlington, VII, 9. 191 ill i juv. '. 

 icksburg, \ II. 20, 1913 I: & 



II I .1 .'. i 



Orange, \ II. 21, 1913, R & H . I 



1 _' < , . 

 Lynchburg, \ II 22, 1913, R d H 



■■ \- \i. N m S< i l'iin.\ . 1907, p 286, I 

 rnegie Inst. Wash., Publ 18, p 29, 1904 



u I'm.. A. \i, I'mii -. 1907 p J- 




L68 



i-Koi i.i di\(,s or mi: ,\< \i>i.\n <>i 



April, 



urg \ II. 23, 1913, R & II . 

 1 iu\ 



Virginia Beach, IX. 15. 1907, (B. 



\ V s. p.). 



\ ortil Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, K & II . 5 d\ 



1 . . 1 \m 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, R & II . 



1 iuv. '. 3 iu\ 

 Goldsboro, \ II. 25, L913, (R. & II . 



1 ". 1 JUV. ;'. 2 iuv. . . 



Charlotte, VII, 27. 1913, iH. & B.), 



1 ', 2 JIN 



Fayetteville, l.\ 9, L911, (R. & H.), 



.3 9. 

 Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911, (H. & H.), 



Wnghtsville, IX. 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 • 



South Carolina. 



Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 d\ 



1 ju 

 Florence, IX. 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 8 <?, 



- 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. A: II. . 



1 .1 juv. ". 1 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX. I. 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 ' 



Dalton, VIII, 7. 1913, R,.), 2 juv. 9. 

 oa, VIII, I-:.. 1913, II. . 3 d", 

 19. 



:li- Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 

 H . 1 j 

 Thompson's Mill-. X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allanl .2 .1 S. X. M.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2. 1913, (R. A II 

 l •. l : . 1 juv. 9. 



A decided increase in -ize is found in the southward distribution 

 of the present species. A female from North Woodbury, New Jersi y, 

 i- exceptionally large for material from that State. Length of females: 

 W.-t Creek, New Jersey, 32.7-33.4; North Woodbury, N. J., 40.4; 

 Asheville, X. ( '. (2,000 feet), 32.5-35; Fayetteville, N. C, 37.5-39; 

 Jacksonville, Fla., 38.5 10; .Miami, Fla., 45.2 mm. 



In the entire -cries of this species nearly all the adult males are 

 in the brown phase, very lew showing any trace of green or 

 oish coloration. In these few specimens this color is obscure 

 and confined to the head and lateral lobes of the pronotum. Of 

 the adult female- before lis, eleven are of the brown phase, the paler 

 tegminal marking- alone suffused with greenish in several of these, 

 ten are intermediate between the brown and green phases, while 

 sixty-eight are of the green phase. It i- interesting to note that in 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VI 1 1 :; 



I'M.;. Bradley, R a 1 1 . i ',19. 

 Si. .in' Mountain, VIII, ;J, L913, 1 1; a 



II .1 .19. 

 Augusta, VII, _".». 1913, (R. a II. 



'J '. 5 iu\ 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (B 



1 d\ 



Macon, \ II. 30 31, 1913, I:. & II . 



8 ', 3 . , 2 juv. 9. 

 Columbus, \ II le. 1913, '.I. ( . Brad- 



lej . 1 d\ 

 [sle of Hope, IX, 3, Hill, <R. a II i, 



19. 

 Jesup, IX. 1, 1911, (R. & II.), 1 <?, 



29. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 cT. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. A- H.), 49. 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & II 



8 d\ 

 Suwannee Creek. VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



11). 1 o*. 

 Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (.J. ' 



Bradley . 1 cf. 

 Albany, VIII, I, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 cf, 1 9, 2 juv. 9. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 17-X, 19, 1910, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 d\ 

 Spring (nek. VI, VII, VIII, 1911-13, 



(J. C. Brailley), 10 o", 6 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



10 o", S9; IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 

 Davis), 2 <?. 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



11 . 1 d\ 1 9. 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 <?. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L59 



the presenl series of young, twenty-five are of the green phase and 

 fourteen are of the brown, irrespective of sex. 



The species was found mosl abundant on sandy soil overgrown 

 with wire-grass and other low plants in areas of scrub <>ak and pine 

 (Jacksonville), bul was also found widely distributed through the 

 undergrowth of pine and mixed forests and in fields and weedy 

 area-, particularly in somewhal damp situations. The insed is known 

 on the Atlantic coasl from Medford, New Jersey, south to Miami. 

 Florid;', and is found in i he Appalachian valleys as high as 2,000 I 



north of Maryland the species is decidedly scarce, and il i- known 

 from southern Florida from km a single specimen. 



Eritettix simplex (Scudder). 



Maryland. North Carolina. 



Laurel. V, II. VI, 1. 1911, Marshall . Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, Et. .v II . 



21 ',99, U. S. N. M.J. -i juv. y. 2 m\ 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, II . 19. Black Mountain, VI, l'.UJ. (W. Beu- 



Pineypoint, \ i. 17. Pergande), 19, tenmuller), 1 .. [Davis < 



l r s N M South Carolina. 



Virginia. Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H . 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & l J" v - -'• 



II 3 m -. 1 jui Georgia. 



Orange, VII, 21, L913, I; & II.. Clayton, \ 1. 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



l 

 dburg, VII, 22, 1913, R. & II . Thompson's Mills, IV, 1910, II. A. 

 '•_' juv. •. 1 in- Allard). 2 \ l . . [U. S. N. M 



8 , VII 23 1913, I: & II . Buckhead, \ III. 2, 1913, R & II 



2 juv. •". 2 juv. 9. 

 Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, R & I! . 

 1 juv. '. 1 juv. 9 . 



The series of young from Fredericksburg, Orange and Petersburg 

 average aboul 6,5 mm. in length, those from Lynchburg and < Ireens- 

 boro 7.2, while the remainder average aboul 8.4 mm. In such very 

 earl; we find supplementary carina weakly indicated <>n the. 



pronotum in five of the seventeeD smallest specimens, and somewhat 

 more strongly bul to varying degrees in five of the Beven larger young, 

 while one of the latter has these carina- very weakly continued on the 

 head. All of these immature examples are of the more normal color 

 form-, excepting one male from Atlanta which has the dorsal surfa* 

 head and pronotum uniformly Mack. These young individuals 

 have the median pronotal -tnpe presenl in the specimens which 



have indication- of supplementary carina': examination of the -.-i i< 



hundred and fifty-nine adults of the presenl species in the col- 

 lection- before us -how- thai the individuals having a strongly 

 defined median -tripe have strongly defined supplementary carina-, 

 while those having the dorsum oi the pronotum unicolorous wholly 



lack supplementary carina-. « 




160 PBCX MM v.- 01 I BE LI \oi.\n 01 \ I >ril , 



The presenl series of very small young all have Bhort, flattened 

 antennas with apices weakly clavate. 



The southeastern limits of the known distribution of the species 

 are defined by some <>f the records given above. 



The present material was taken in campestral surroundings; in 

 -hurt grasses, usually on upland-, bu1 on the Mat country jusl below 

 the fall line at Augusta. The young were abundanl at Greensboro, 

 elsewhere they were occasional or very Scarce. 



Macneillia obscura Soudder. 



Live Oak, Florida. VIII, 26, 1911, (B & !l. ,2 9, 2 juv. o". 

 Gotha, Fla., I f, [U.S. N. M.]. 



Both dt' the above female- are vandyke brown in general coloration, 

 one has the dorsal median section of the pronotum between the 

 supplementary carina' (which in this specimen are distinct) and the 

 corresponding portion of the head clay color: the other specimen 

 is unicolorous, the lateral carina alone outlined in clay color, and 

 has no indication whatever of supplementary carina 1 . 44 Study of 

 the series of forty-five adults and young of this rare specie- in the col- 

 lection- before us, -how- thai the supplementary carinae, when present, 

 me more decided as a median stripe becomes more prominent. 

 Specimens having a wholly unicolorous dorsum of the pronotum 

 entirely lack supplementary carinae; we find this to be likewise true 

 in the species of the genus Eritettix. 



The specimens from Live Oak, the most northern locality at which 

 this insect has been found, were taken on the side of a depression 

 near a sink hole, where the deforested ground was covered with wire- 

 grass and clumps of a dwarf oak growing knee-high. 



Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



North Carolina. South Carolina. 



Goldsboro, VII. 25, L913, (R. & H. , Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, II. . 



1 juv 1 juv. 9 . 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, (R. & B.), Florence, IX. 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 ju . ,v. 9. 2 <?, 2 juv. d\ < juv. i . 



Lake Ellis, V, 11. L906, 1 z, [U. S. Columbia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



X. M.J. 1 juv. 9. 



Wilmington, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & II.. Manning, V, 28, L914, \\ Stone), 



I ju\ 3 o\ 1 9, IA. X. S. P.]. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & II.), Ashley Junction, VIII, L5, 1913, I: . 



■i juv. 9 ■ 9 juv. 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R iV- Vemassee, IX, 1. 1911, (R. & H.), 



II 1 j . 4 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9. 



Unfortunately the author- in speaking of such unicolorous specimens 

 "lateral carina-" where "supplementary carina-" was meant. Peoc. Acad. 

 Xat. So Phila.. 1912. p. 251, C1912). 




1916.] NATURAL BCIEN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



•gia. Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, H . 1 d\ 



T •■:, 1,094 feet, XIII. i-:,, 1913, S ,TTf« '-.'•^ VHI ' 28 ' l911 ' 



,, R & II . _' juv.9. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain. l.ooo feet, M £ on B ^S .! ' ",'' r '" k '"' 



VIII 3, 1913, K. & H., 1 juv u 'n W:l "i P ,' \ v.;',. ", / u . 

 ■ •,.. J Hilly- Island, M. 1912, .1 < Brad- 



! • l,.v 1 • ■' 



Macon, \ II. 30-31, L913, R. & II . ,, ' ' : " Y. ,,., , . <■ „ 



2 ■' Bonej Muni. \ I, 1912, J. ( . Brad- 

 Warm Spi . - 1,200 feet, VII '" v 



10, 1913, I; . 1 juv. . 1 juv. 9. ... - , 



-ia. VII, 29, I'M::. R. & II . rionaa. 



4 jii -. JacksonviUe, VIII, 1885, W. II Ash- 

 Albany, VIII. 1. L913, l; & !l mead), 3 juv. \ 2 juv. 9, [Hebard 



2jir. Cll 



Isle of Bope, IX. 3, 1911, H. & II . Atlantic Beach, Mil. 24, 1911, R & 



•_' juv. .'. 2 juv. ?. II . 1 JU1 



Sandfly, IX. 3, 1911, R. & II.. Live Oak, VHI, 26, 1911, I: &B 



■i juv. :. ■_' jt i ju\ 



[X, 1,1911. I! .V II. . 1 juv..-"; Davtona. XI. 11. 1911, G P Engle- 

 XII. 1908. B. - 1 '.29. hardl ,29, B I 



Bomerville, \ III. 27, 1911, R & II 



I juv 



Tbere is little individual and almost no geographic variation in 

 size in the adults of the above series, the specimens from Billy's and 

 Honey Islands being of similar dimensions to individuals from 

 Raleigh, North < Sarolina. 



The usual polychromatism is noticed in the adults. The 

 smaller young -how both green and brown phases, the presence of 

 the former phase, which is never found in the adull condition, appar- 

 ently pointing to the greater primitiveness of this type of coloration, 

 e earlier stages immature examples -how a decided tnultilineate 

 coloration accompanied by an infuscation of the face, which is quite 

 distinctive, little suggestive, however, of the coloration of the adult, 

 growth progresses the In-own- become more evident, and in the 

 third instar preceding maturity the greens have largely disappeared. 

 In the second instar preceding maturity such peculiarities as the 

 black edgings of the median carina of the pronotum, occasionally 

 found in adults, become evident. 



While generally taken in grass and brush in pine or pine and oak 

 woods, the young of this species are occasionally found in oak gri 



Orphnlella pelidna B 



'and. P< tenburg, \ ll 23 1913 R A li 



Glen Echo, VII. 10, 1914, II . I : ' '■ "' ' 



A orth Carolina. 

 1 U.-1-l..n. \ II. 24, 1913, I: a 11 



Arlington, VII, 9. 191 1. II L jui 

 Fredericksburg, VII. 20, 1913, R I ensboro, VII, 26, 1913 R a II . 



II I 1 . 16 



bburg, VII, 22, 1913, R a ll « b irlotfc Ml 27 19 ll 




162 



l'Koi EEDINGS < >F I 111. \< AIM MY OF 



[April, 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, i: & ll . 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, II. & II. > 



in •. in i . 

 Wrightsville, l\. 7, 1911, (R. & H.) 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 191 l, (R. & 



11 . 1 ',49. 



Smith Carolina. 

 Spartanburg. VIII. 6, 1913, II . I . 

 Columbia, VII. 28, I'M.;. R. & II. i 



1 cf, 39. 

 Florence, IX. 6, 1913, (R. & H.) 



3 c?, 79. 

 Sumter, V. 30, 1914, (W. Stone) 



l . . \ N. S. P.]. 

 Manning, V, 23 to 30, 1914, (W 

 . 1 o\ 1 9, 4 juv. 9, [A. N 

 - !• . 

 [ale of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.) 



3 9. 

 Yemassee, IX. 1. Kill, (H. & H.) 



12 \ 12 9. 



Geo rgia. 



Clayton. 2,000-3,700 feet, VII, 1910 



\\. T Davis), 19. 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 3 cf 



29. 

 Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 5 



1913, (EL), 1 d\ 19. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 1 cf 



1 juv. 9 . 



VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 2 d\ 2 9 

 Austell, VIII. 6, 1910, 1 cf, [Ga 



Slat.' Cln.]. 

 Atlanta, VI, 26, 1913, 1 a", 19, [Ga 



Stale Cln.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII. 2. 1913, (R. & H.) 



1 M5. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3 



1913, Et. &H.), 4 o", 5 9. 

 Thompson's .Mills, X. 1909, (H. A 



Allard), 2 cf, 8 9, [U. S. X. M.J. 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.) 



6 cf, 79. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.) 



I \ 11 9. 

 Montieello, VIII, 2, 1905, (Titus) 



1 cf, [U. S. X. MJ. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.) 



2 ',79. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.) 



Tifton, IX, 8, 1910, 1 9, [Ga. State 



Cln.]. 

 Bainbridge, VII, L5, 1912: IX, 4-7 



IX, 17-X. 19, 1910, (J. C Bradley) 



Spring Greek, VI, 7-23, L91 1. \ 11. 



16 29, 1912, VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), is ', 20 i , 

 Homerville, VIII, 27. 1911, !:. & II.), 



13 cf, 6 9. 

 Waycross, V, 11, 1910, I 



State Cln.]. 

 Ilebanlville, \', 1."., L915, II .), 1 <? , 



19. 



Suwannee Creek, VIII. 28, 1911, 



i: a H .1^,49. 

 Billy's [aland, \ . 28 \ [I. 1912, IX, 



1-5, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 56 cf, 



37 9, 2 juv. cf, I jn 

 Jordan.-, Billy's Wand. VIII, 31, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 cf, 1 9, 1 juv. 9. 

 Honey Island. VI, I. 1912, (J. <'. 



Bradley), 1 o\ 1 9, 1 juv. 9 . 

 Mixon's Hammock, VI, 16, 1912, 



i.l. C. Bradley), 1 cf. 

 Fartfu, VIII, 31, 1913, (.1. C. Bradley), 



1 juv. 9 . 



Jesup, IX, 1, lDll, (li. A- H.), 3 cf, 



79. 

 Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911. (R. & H.), 



4 cf, 29. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 cf, 39. 

 Sandfly, IX, 2, 1911, (R. A H.), 2 cf, 



2 9.' 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 cf, 19. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 7 cf, 8 9. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII. 31, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 7 cf, 3 9. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 6 cf, 49 ; XI, :; and .">. 11)11, 

 (W. T. Davis), 2 cf, 4 9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



Et. A- II.), 6 cf, 19 9. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 cf, 69. 



Lakeland, V, 4, 1912, XI. 8, 1911, 



(W. 'P. Davis), 5 cf, 59. 

 Punta Gorda, XI, 11-16, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 3 cf, 59. 

 Fori Myers, III, 30 and IV, 24, 1912, 



(W. f. Davis), 1 cf, 19. 

 La Belle, IV, 27, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 



19. 

 South Bav, Lake Okeechobee, V, 1 



and 2, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 1 cf , 



19. 

 Everglade, IV. 5, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 



1 9. 

 Deep Lake, IV, ]:>,, 1912, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 cf. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPH I \. 163 



The present -cries of five bundled and thirty-five specimens 

 exhibits the almost endless variation in siae, the numerous structural 

 and proportional modification- and all the pure and compound color 

 phases found in this extremely plastic species. In the matter of 

 wing length we find both one of the most abbreviate females and 

 the most macropterous one of the same sex in the Lynchburg series. 

 The macropterous one of these measures 22.5 nun. in length of body 

 and 21.5 nun. in length of tegmen, while the abbreviate our has the 

 same proportions 21.5 and 17.4, respectively. The only noteworthy 

 color modification is seen in the Isle of Palm- series, which, taken 

 among the dunes of a barrier beach, is prevailingly grayish, two 

 of the females having almost no distinct markings, in tin- respect 

 much resembling 0. olivacea, with which this species was there 

 associated. 



Certain specimens from Punta Gorda, Florida, particularly one 

 female, -how a tendency toward the new 0. kalophila occurring in 

 the same general region, but tin- is purely one of general resemblance 

 and not of close affinity. This apparent divergence from the basic 



type is not true of all the individual- from that locality, a- other- 

 are perfectly typical of />- lidna. 



\- to the -ynonviny of OrpkldeUa prcUorum Scudder with the 



presenl species, it seems only accessary to say that the more material 



l by us the more certain are we of the correctness of the association. 



This species was found over the whole region treated in the present 



paper, frequenting the <:reale~t variety of habitat-, from -alt marsh 



- in company with olivacea at Tybee Island and Wrightsville), 

 to barren hillsides (Fredericksburg) and mountain slopes under 

 timber in a luxuriant undergrowth of grasses, vim- and oak sprouts 

 Currahee Mountain'. The undergrowth in pine womb, /.. ., gall- 

 berry, bunch and wire-grass, seems to be more preferred than cam- 

 pestrian situations. At [sle ol Palms this species and olivacea were 

 found in the dry hollows of dune- among vegetation composed of 

 bayberry, Myrica cerifera, scrubby oak, briars and cabbage palmetto, 

 Sabal palnu tin. 



Orphulella olivacea (Moi 



< i,i Smith Carolii 



lin v com <■ Me of Palms, \ III. 15, 1913, R . 



1907, I'. Long . I \ \ - I' I ' 



Sorth ( • ■/. Tybee [aland, I V 2, 191 1 i: a II 



WrighteviUe, IX. 7. 1911, R All. I I i- 



- Ifly, l\ 3, 1911. I; a II i 




It. I PROCEEDINGS OP DHE \< IDEM1 OF [April, 



Florida. 41 Texas. 



Pablo Beach, VIII, 12, 1905, K .v II. Galveston, VII, 19-21, 1912, II 



I ' 11 \ 5 9. 



Keys, VIII, 15, 1905, R All . Virginia Point, VII, 21, 1912, ll 



II o*, 12 8 . I J . . 1 juv. 9. 



Corpus Christi, VII, 29, 1912, II 

 2 9. 



The study of the present series of this and the following species, 

 as will as material of olivacea from New England and New Jersey 

 brings oui three point- of interest. First, that olivacea increases 

 in size southward, the Tybee Island and Cedar Keys specimens being 

 appreciably larger than New England and New Jersey individuals. 

 nd. the range of this species covers the coastal marshes and 

 portions of the beaches from southern New England (Norwich, ( lon- 

 necticut) Bouth to north Florida (Pablo Beach), also along the Gulf 

 coasl from Cedar Key-, Florida, to Texas, as far south as Corpus 

 Christi, the two portions of the range being completely separated. 

 Third, that in similar environment in south-central and southern 

 Florida and southern Texas, north to Corpus Christi, olivacea i- 

 replaced by an allied species, which does not intergrade with the more 

 northern form and is found associated with it at Corpus Christi. 



A critical examination of all of our material from fifteen localities 

 • ■xtrnding from Connecticut to Texas shows a regular size increase 

 in both sexes as one proceeds southward to northern Florida, the 

 -iz<- increase being accompanied by a broadening and blunting of the 

 fastigium, specimens from ( Ireenwich, Connecticut, and Cedar Keys, 

 Florida, being quite different in the latter feature. Considering the 

 Texan material, it i< seen that the beach specimens (Galveston and 

 Corpus Christi) are somewhal smaller than individuals taken in 

 the -alt marsh of the bay- (Virginia Point), the series from the 

 latter place averaging as large as the Cedar Keys specimens taken 

 in the same environment. Measurements (in millimeters) of 

 average individuals and pairs from a number of localities are as 

 follow-: 



Greenwich, Conn. Atlantic City, Franklin City, 



I Paratypes). N. J. Va. 



<? 9 cf 9 9 



Length of body 17. 21.5 17.8 24.3 26 5 



Length of pronotum 3.2 3.9 3.7 4 .'■>> 



Length of tegmen 14. (i 16 - 15. 19.8 21.4 



These specimens have been recorded by the authors (Pboc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phtla., 1907, p. 287. (1907)) as 0. pelidnaf These individuals arc extremely 

 large olivacea, differing also, as here shown, from northern specimens of the 



es in having the fastigium somewhal aberrant. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Wrighteville. Isle of Palms, Tybee bland, 



N. C 3. < Ga. 



9 cr o" 9 



Length of body 17 1 19 3 26 2 



_ '. of pronotum 1.9 3.4 I 



Length of tegmen .'1 9 L5.7 16.7 21 5 



Pablo Beach, Cedar Keys, Galveston, 



Fla. Fla. ' Tex. 



<? o" 9 cr 9 



Length of body 20 3 20. 27 18 5 23 7 



Length of pronotum 4.1 LI 5 3 s 1.5 



5th of tegmen 18 1 16.9 22 - 16.3 18.6 



Virginia Point, < !orpus Christi, 

 Tex. 

 cr 9 9 



Length of body 21.1 27.5 26.8 



Length <>t" pronotum 5 2 5 



I ■ • gth of tegmen 17..') 21. 4 20 B 



The Lsle of Palm- male was taken among the dunes of a barrier 

 beach, entirely away from the true Bait-marsh habitat, which may 

 account for the small size of the specimen. The specimens from the 

 vicinity of sail pan- with Salicornia and similar vegetation, a type ol 

 situation where the species occurred at < ialveston and < Jorpus ( Ihristi, 

 exhibit, as the measurements above show, a Bomewhal depauperate 

 form when compared with specimens from the sail marsh, which is 

 the typical habitat of the species. Apparently the actios of environ- 

 ment is seen in these beach specimens in the reduction of wing length 

 and to a certain degree in the coloration, both of which are similar 

 to the condition found in the allied 0. halophila, which as far as 

 known invariably frequents the vicinity of salt pans. Tegminal 

 length as a general thing is a somewhat variable factor in 0. olwacea, 

 the Tybee series showing one female with a bodj length of 33.3 mm. 

 and a tegminal length of 25, while in this respect almost as much 

 variation cither way from the measured specimen is found in the 

 same -• \ in the Virginia Point series. The general hulk and pronotal 

 length, however, follow the rule laid down above, the influence of a 

 somewhal changed environment on the beaches and flats resulting 

 there in a general siae reduction, accompanied by a tegminal abbre- 

 viation much as in 0. halophila which frequents the same habitat. 



The range of tin- species, so far as known, does not extend south 

 ol I ledar Kej -. Florida, and < lorpus < ihristi, Texas, at the latter localitj 

 the species occurring with 0. halophila (see below), which replaces 

 n southward. Texan olwacea are inseparable from eastern coast 

 specimens, and similarly south Florida and south Texas halophila 

 are inseparable. 



12 « 




ititi pbo< i i dings op i in \< \i»i nt. oi [April, 



At Wrightsville, Tybee Island, Sandfly and Virginia Point, this 

 species was found in Ball marsh, associated with 0. pelidna at the 

 first two localities, while at Galveston and Corpus Christi it fre- 

 quented the flats and pans with Salicornia and similar vegetation. 



Orphulella halophila new species, l'l XII. figs 6, ~. B. 



1912. Orphulella pelidna Rehn and Bebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1912, p. 253. In part.) [Records from Key West, Boot Key and Key 

 Vaca nfcr in part in halophila.] 



Allied to <>. olivacea (Morse), Imt differing in the more robust 

 form, the never strongly elongate tegmina, the shorter pronotum, 



the more arcuate lateral carina of the pronotum and more inflated 

 caudal femora. 



Type: 9 ; Key West, Monroe County. Florida. July 3-7, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Bebard.) [Hehard Collection, Type No. 31.] 



Description of Tape. — Size medium; form moderately robust, 

 subcompressed. Head with occiput and interocular region regularly 

 arcuate when Been from the side, width of the interocular space 

 hardly narrower than the greatest fastigial width; fastigium much 

 broader than long (from cephalic margin of eyes), rect annulate in 

 outline, moderately impressed in a rather narrow subarcuate area 

 but little removed from the margin (fig. 7); when seen from the side 

 the fastigio-faciaJ angle is moderately rounded, lateral foveolae very 

 elongate trigonal, well impressed; facial outline regularly though 

 but moderately oblique; frontal costa narrow at juncture with 

 ghim, regularly widening ventrad, weakly sulcate dorsad of the 

 median ocellus; eyes one and one-half times as deep as the infra- 

 ocular sulcus is long, subovoid in shape, but moderately prominent 

 when seen from the dorsum; antenna? slightly depressed proximad, 

 faintly tapering distad, considerably shorter than the head and 

 pronotum together. Pronotum with the greatest width across 

 ventral portion of the lateral lobes subequal to the greatest dorsal 

 length of the disk; lateral carina moderately converging caudad to 

 the second transverse sulcus, thence diverging caudad, both sections 

 -lightly arcuate (fig. 7); cephalic margin of disk subtruncate, caudal 

 margin of disk obtusely arcuate; median carina of pronotum well 

 and evenly elevated, severed by the principal transverse sulcus 

 Blightly caudad of the middle. Tegmina just reaching the tips of 

 the caudal femora, apex broadly rounded, when seen from the 

 lateral aspect and in repose the costal margin and the dorsal line of 

 the legmen subparallel except for the slight proximal lobe; ulnar area 

 completely divided in two by a longitudinal spurious vein and in 




1916.] NATURAL S< [EN( E6 OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



consequence with a double series of cells; discoidal area faintly 

 narrowing distad, with irregularly arranged small "•ell- and showing 

 but faint indications of an intercalary vein. Interspace between 

 the mesosternal lobes quadrate, slightly longitudinal; interspace 

 between the tnetasternal Lobes small, oarrowed caudad, subcuneate. 

 Caudal femora moderately robust, the greatest depth contained 

 four times in the Length; caudal tibia with eleven spines on the 

 externa] margin. 

 Allotype: 3* ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype. Differing from the description of the type 

 in the following particular-, aside from the usual sexual differen 

 size -i nail. Head with impressed area of the fastigium more extensive 

 caudad: fastigio-facial angle more obtuse-angulate, facial outline 

 when seen from lateral aspect slightly more oblique; frontal costa 

 oearly subequal in width between the antenna] bases and the median 

 ocellus, silicate throughout, but more distinctly so dorsad; eyes 

 nearly twice as deep as the infra-ocular sulcus is Long, while prominent 

 -till slightly compressed when seen from the dorsum; antenna' in 

 gth very faintly exceeding that of the head and pronotum together. 

 Pronotum very slightly narrower: lateral carina' subobliterated 

 between the first and second transverse sulci. Tegmina slightly 

 surpassing the tip- of the caudal femora: ulnar area with Large but 

 irregular cells, without a distinct spurious vein; discoidal area as 

 in female. Interspace between mesosternal Lobes distinctly longitu- 

 dinal; metasternal Lobes attingent caudad. Caudal femora with 



the greatest depth contained three and one-half lime- in the length; 



caudal tibiae with eleven spines on the external margin. 



The coloration of this species run- through the whole gamut of 

 units or phases found in certain other members of the genus, as 

 0. pelidna, showing much greater diversity than in the more closely 

 allied 0, olivacea. It seems unnecessary to more than summarize 

 the more striking of these units, between all of which there seem to 

 l>e regular intermediates. The males are much more uniform m 

 their coloration than is the case in the female sex. The green extreme 

 unit ha- the base color clear dull green-yellow (Ridgway) to chal- 

 cedony yellow, running to apple green and even rejane green, the 

 discoidal area oi tli<- tegmina with quadrate maculations of fuscous, 

 a distinct postocular suffusion present on head, dorsal portion of 

 lateral Lobes and caudo-lateral portions ol pronotal disk, the ventral 

 portions of the lateral lobes with or without fuscous linings and 

 hoary tint-, the accessory line- on the occiput and femoral hat- al-o 




168 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHB \< \i>KMV OF [April, 



variable in presence <>r absence and solidarity. The brown extreme 

 i- heavily mottled and Buffused fuscous on a tawny-olive ground, 

 the dark markings around tin- lateral cariiue of the pronotum strik- 

 ingly velvety black, the markings of the lateral lobes, tegmina and 

 femora no1 pronounced. Between these two extremes runs a series 

 of about five phases, each sufficiently distinct to the eye to be readily 

 recognizable. In one the color is uniform honey-yellow with almost 

 no marking, another is similar with the (lark markings around the 

 lateral carina? velvety black and a narrow postocular bai fuscous, 

 with faint indications of tegmina) maculations and a faint greenish 

 wash on the dorsum of the pronotum. Another has the whole pat- 

 tern, i.e., femoral markings, linings on lobes and pleura, dark areas 

 about carinas and very weak occipital lines and tegmina! maculations, 

 indicated, but also entirely washed with ochraceous-salmon. 

 Another phase, apparently unusual, as it is seen only in males from 

 Point Isabel and a female from Boot Key, has the markings similar, 

 but is unsuffused and the base color is quite pale, in fact light buff. 

 The last of these phases is near the brown extreme, but it has the 

 tegminal markings decided and the base color somewhat paler. 

 In addition there crops out in three of the phases that peculiar wash- 

 ing of all or parts of the tegmina, and occasionally part or all of the 

 pronotum, w T ith rich purple seen in a number of the species of this 

 very variable group. The type belongs to the green extreme and 

 the allotype is of a brownish phase which predominates in the male 

 sex. 



Correlating the material by locality for possible color relation to 

 environment is productive of little positive data, as the more extreme 

 color phases are usually from localities represented by uniques or 

 very small series, while the extensive Key West series (thirty-four 

 specimens) shows very great diversity in itself. The pale markings 

 on the lateral carinse of the pronotum, frequently broken mesad, are 

 the most -triking constant color feature of the species. 



Measurements (w millimeters). 



Length of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



d" body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Key West, Fla., Allotype.. .17.5 3.5 13.4 9.5 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 18.7 3.7 15. 10.5 



West, Fla., Paratype 19. 3.5 14.2 10.0 



West, Fla., Paratype is 3.5 14.4 10. 



Corpus Christi, Tex 18.8 3.8 L5.5 11.2 



Corpus Christi, Tex 17.5 3.5 15. 11.5 



Corpus Christi, Tex 18.2 3.5 14.3 11.5 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



I _ih of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



9 body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Kej West, Fla., Tvpk 121 5 i : 18. 13 9 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 24.3 L5 16.9 12.9 



Key West, Fla., Paratype .21.5 4.5 17. 13 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 25.6 1.8 20 14.2 



Corpus Christi, Tex 2 i 3 19 2 14.1 



Corpus Christi, Tex '_■ 5 1 20 7 15 5 



Corpus Christi. Tex 26. L8 20 15 2 



It will be seen from the above measurements thai the Texan 

 material has slightly longer femora in both sexes, bu1 the difference 

 rtremely slight. The fastigium varies considerably in the degree 

 of angulation, particularly in the male sex, occasionally being dis- 

 tinctly acute-angulate in that sex, while in the female it sometimes 

 is faintly obtuse-angulate. The lateral carina' of the pronotum vary 

 much as they do in 0. olivaa a, being more inbowed in some specimens 

 than in others, in fact almost subparallel cephalad in occasional 

 individual-, while very frequently in the males and less frequently 

 in the females they arc distinctly subobsolete between the first and 

 second transverse sulcus. The individual variation in tegminal 

 length is less than usual in the present genus. 



We have before us a -eric- of seventy-one specimens of this inter- 

 esting species. The localities represented and data <>n the material 

 are as follows: 



Punta Gorda, Florida, XI, L6, 1911, Ke\ West, Fla., I. 20, 1904, U ; 



\v T. Davis . 1 . III. 15 16. 1910, II j Vll 



Mart IV, 17 and 20, L912, 1912, R. & H.), 12 ',229, type, 



\\ T. Davis . l allotypt and paratypes. 



. II:,. III. n. 1910, II I orpus Christi, Texas, VII, 29, L912, 



1 ■ II ,9 \ 12 9, 1 juv 



1'..,.,. Key, Fla.. Ill, 14, 1910, || , Point Isabel, Tex., VIII, 2, 1912, 



I '. I . 11 



Pine Key, Fla., VII, 6, 1912, Tampico, Tamaulipas. Mexico, XII. 



R a II . I ?. Hebard Cln 



The above localities show that the range <>i this species is dis- 

 continuous, 'If tw<> regions in which it occurs being separated by an 

 area, u .. the greater portion of the Gulf coast of the United States, 

 where 0. nlinicKi replaces it in the same environment. We can 

 only speculate as to the centre in which the species originated, but 

 in view of the accumulating evidence bearing on the Mexican origin 

 of certain south Florida Orthoptera it i- not at all impossible that 

 this species in the past reached the eastern portion of it- presenl 

 distribution from Mexico, and possibly by way of Yucatan. 



It i- evident from the data in hand that the species occurs through- 

 out the entire year, material being before us taken every month in 

 the i.t February, May, June, September and October 




170 PROCEEDINGS "I PHB \< IDEM1 01 (April, 



It seems probable to us thai the presenl Bpecies is the one referred 

 to as 0. :w/»(i/«r</ (Saussure) by Scudder, 41 his specimens having been 

 from Corpus Christi Bay, Texas; Mexico; Venis Mecas, Mexico; 

 San Mateo del Mar. Tehuantepec, Mexico; Guatemala, and Elealejo, 

 Nicaragua. Our material runs to this Bpecies in his key and the 

 three exacl localities given by him with .which we arc familiar, or 

 can locate, are in the maritime region frequented by this species. 

 The use of Saussure's name, however, does no1 appear warranted, as, 

 while the description is brief, it appears to apply inure satisfactorily 

 to one of the peculiarly Mexican forms of the genus. 



The habitats frequented by the species were all quite similar; at 

 Key Wesl individuals being common in SaUcornia and other halo- 

 phytes growing on almost Ware coral rock in the mangrove region 

 at the easl end of the island, on Big Pine Key the species was taken 

 among mangroves, while on Key Vaca and Bool Key it occurred 

 under much the same condition- as at Key West. At Corpus 

 Christi and Point Isabel the species frequented saline adobe flats 

 with low halophytic vegetation. 



Orphulella speciosa (Scudder). 



>, Maryland, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 2 d\ 29. 

 D -Tin of Columbia, VIII, 11, 1883, 1 ". [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Fredericksburg, Virginia., VII, 20, 1913, (R. & B.), is '. :;i 9. 



At Fredericksburg this northern type was fairly abundant and 

 widely distributed, especially in short grasses on the uplands bor- 

 dering the valley of the Rappahannock. These arc portions of the 

 rounded escarpment of the Piedmont region, and it seems probable 



that in Virginia this species docs not occur on the coastal plain. The 

 presenl form b more distinctly a specie- of short-gras> area- than 

 0. />< lidna. 



Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



Virginia. Goldshoro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Arlington, VII, 9. 1914, II ,2juv. J. 2 <J, 19 , 1 Juv cf , 3 juv ? ? 



Fredericksburg, VII. 20. 1913, (R. & Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & B.), 



II m 4 c\ 3 9. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 ', Lake Waccamaw, EX, 8, 1911, (B & 



H.), 3cf,3 9. 



- ]"■-■>■ 1913. (R.* >' ■ South Carolina. 



t ,i 3 1 iuv 9 



J Florence, IX. 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 <?. 



North Carolina. Manning, V, 23 and 30, 1914, W. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R & II Stone), 1 juv. d", 1 juv.9, [A. X. 



s. p.). 



"Can. Enl., XXXI. p. 180, (1899 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIEN< ES <)F PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



Vemassa IX. 1. 1911, (R. & H . 

 - 



Georgia. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, L913, R. & II . 



l : . l i .■ 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, R. & II . 



Columbus, VII, 16, 1913, 1 \ Ga. 



State < Jin.]. 

 ■ '_ orpe, Macon < Jounty, VII, 1 



and 31, 1910, J. C. Bradley . 1 \ 



l 

 Albany. VIII, 1, 1913, R. &H 



1 jut 

 Tifton, IX. 8, 1910, (J. C. Bradley . 



1 '. 

 Spring Creek, VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



.1 C. Bradley .19. 

 Bainbridge, V, 31-VI, 1. 1911; VII. 



15, L912; IX. 17 V 19, 1910, J. C. 



Bradley . 

 Homerville, VIII. 27, 1911, R. & H.), 



Billv's Island, VI- VII, P.M.': IX, 1-."), 

 XII. 20, 1913, .1. C Bradley - 



ln . . i • , 



Jordan's, Billy's Island, VIII, 31, 1913, 



.1 C. Bradley . 1 

 Jesup, IX. 1. L911, R. A B.), 1 ' 



"XII. 11.12. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, EL), 1 9. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 

 i: ah ,19; LX-X, 1910, i \ 



l . . I ..-, State Cln.]. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII. 31, 1911, 

 I ; . a 1 1 .i ■ . _» 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, H a II . 

 1 9 ; VIII. 1885, W H Ashmead . 



in ',89, Hebard Cln.]; XI. 5, 



rill. (W. 'I". Davis .1 . '_' 9. 

 South Jacksonville, IX. 7. 1913, 



\\ T. Davis), 1 ', 2 

 Ortega, Duval County, IX. 6, 1913, 



\\ T. Davis), ! . 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



I ; .vll ,8 ' , 12 9 . 

 Pablo Beach, IX. r, and 27, L913, 



\\ I Davis ,5 \7 9. 

 Liv oak. \ II. 26, 1911, R. & H.), 

 :; • 



An examination <»t' the above series and material From the north- 

 eastern States -how- thai a- ;i rule the fastigium i- blunter in the 

 more southern specimens, particularly in tin- female sex. ' Occasional 

 individuals from ' leorgia localities have the angle of this same region 

 similar to thai found in Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens, 

 Inn by f;ii" the majority -how a distincl broadening of the fastigium. 

 The size varies individually in any considerable series and there 

 appears to be no geographic tendency in this feature. 



There is a slighl preponderance of the green phase, while the 

 brown individuals -how a maculate, a simply punctulate ami a 

 plain form. The green phase males show a decided amount of 

 variation in the infuscation of the lateral aspect, this being almosl 

 blackish in certain specimens (Oglethorpe, Billy's Island, Pablo 

 b ami Atlantic Beach), paling until, in two Lake Waccamaw 

 male-, there is no infuscation excepl the carina! lines ami their 

 tegminal continuations. 



In the presenl series no specimens are macropterous, the tegmina 

 falling shorl of the apex of the abdomen in all. 



The species is a lover of weed) spots, grass} fields and damp 

 overgrown depressions, occurring frequently in abundance, h is 

 occasionally found in grasses in pine woods Weldon, Goldsboro 

 and Jacksonville). 




172 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi \< kDEMT "I [April. 



Clinocephalus elegant Ma 



190J ' wcephalue puleher Rehn and Bebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Phila., 

 1905, p. :i<'>. [Miami, Florida.] 



Ifaryland. Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, B . 1 d\ 



Pom.. VHP 12, L880, 1 . . I •• 



II- l'u<i rin 1 umberland [aland, \ni. 31 1911, 



i;. & IP i, 1 juv. 9. 

 '■>' Carolina. j e8UP) i\, p imp (R. & p.,, 21 ', 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911. (R. 4 II. . 99. 



11 i 3 9. Billy's Island, \ II. L912; IX. 1-5, 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 . , 2 juv. i 



11 .11 ',7 9,1 juv. 9. Suwannee Creek, VIII, 2s, 1911, iK. & 



Wilmington, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & II . H.), 2 ', 2 9. 



11 Bebardville, VIII, 28, 1911, (B .19. 



Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911, R. & II , Bomerville, VIII. 27, 1911, R & B.), 



27 \ 30 9. 22 c?, 7 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, (R. & H . Florida. 



■ ' v - Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. 4 B.), 



South Carolina. 2d 1 2 9. 



Ishley Junction, VIII. 15, 1913, (R.), South Jacksonville, IX, 7. 1913, u T. 



2 juv. 9. Davis), 3 o", 19. 



Yemassee, IX. 4. 1911, (R. & B.), Atlantic Beach, VHP 24-25, 1911, 



15 9. (R. & B.), 12 o", 12 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Georgia. Texas. 



Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, (R. & B.), Webster, Harris CJounty, VII, 19, 1912, 



9 d 1 . (H.), 2 o". 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. i*c H.), 11 o", Dickinson, Galveston County, VII, 



59. 20, 1912, (H.), 3 o". 



A critical examination of this material shows that in the southern 

 part of its range the species varies away from the more northern 

 type, much as do Orphulella olivacea and Chortophaga viridifasciata, 

 the general size, as a rule, increasing southward and the fastigium 

 there becoming appreciably broader and blunter. Material from 

 Miami. Florida, has been separated from true elegans by the authors, 

 who first considered it to represent a full species, Clinocephalus 

 puleher, and later regarded it as a geographic race of elegans." 

 Specimens from as far north as St. Simon's Island, Georgia, were con- 

 sidered representative of puleher, the characters of which were also 

 analyzed on the basis of Florida material. 48 In the light of the 

 additional collections now available, it seems best to place this 

 name unreservedly in synonymy. The characters are not decided 

 or constant enough in our opinion to justify the retention of the 

 name, the recognition of a geographic race requiring, it appears 

 to Ufl, more uniformity in, and more significance to, its differential 

 character- over at least t he greater portion of its range. The gradual 

 increase in me and the broadening and bluntening of the fastigium 



«Paoc. Acad. Nat. >< i. 1'iiin., I'.mo. p. 5XS, (191 P 

 ■ Ibid., 1907. p, 287, 1907 




1916.] NATURAL -< tENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



southward are features shared by a number of species, which differ- 

 ences, uncorrected with other characters, we do not feel are suf- 

 ficiently clear cut to constitute racial criteria, the two extremes in 

 this case grading gradually into one another instead of showing 

 uniformity over definite areas and intergradation over relatively 

 smaller ones. 



The previous analysis of the characters of pidcher covered the 

 supposedly diagnostic feature-. .... size, tegminal length, fastigial 

 form, frontal costa and color. A re-examination of these features 

 -hows that the general size as a rule follows the usual increase in 

 -ize southward, but that in the series from Lake Waccamaw, Winter 

 Park. Yemassee, Jesup, Tybee Island and Sandfly we find individ- 

 ual- of both sexes which are similar in this respeci to New Jersey, 

 and other- to southern Florida, specimens. Regarding the relative 

 length of the tegmina, we find no specimens in the present material 

 with tegmina a- long a- south Florida representatives, hut each 

 series shows ;i considerable degree of individual variation in this 

 respeci in both sexes. The four female- from Jacksonville all 

 have the tegmina very short, not surpassing the middle of the third 

 abdominal segment, lanceolate and acute. The form of the fastigium 

 -how- ;i general uniform broadening southward, but, like the Length 

 measurement, occasional individuals of both sexes have it a- narrow 

 and a- much angulate ;t- in New Jersey specimens. The sulcatiorj 

 of the frontal costa varies greatly in degree, to a certain extent 

 geographically, bul to a greater one individually. 



A- we have -aid before, the more southern specimens exhibit color 

 pattern- not observed in more northern individuals. This statement 

 holds true in the light of the present material, the extreme trilineate 

 form being suggested in hut a few individuals, these from southern 

 Georgia, although blackish or largely blackish specimens are present 

 in the Wilmington, Lake Waccamaw, Yemassee, Sandfly, Homer- 

 ville, Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach series. These blackish speci- 

 mens are females and without exception they were taken on wet 



black ground in swampy situations. 



The Texac specimens are inseparable from Georgia individuals 

 and the range "f the species is considerably extended L> these 



• I-. In the southern state- the species is found at greater 



distances from the coast line thai! is 'he case to the northward, hut 



nowhere ha- the Bpecies been found ahove the fall line; Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, being the farthest inland locality from which it i- 

 known. The range ext< ads from western Long Island, New York 




171 



l'K<>< EEDINGS "l l in: \< \i»l.\n 01 



April 



.\ ... .. 1 . Boutfa to Key West, Florida, wesl to eastern Texas 

 Webster and Dickinson), extending inland as far as Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, Homerville, Georgia, and Flomaton, Alabama. 



The species always occurs in moist areas, and in the region here 

 treated often in woodland, generally among bracken, reeds or grasses, 

 but occasionally on Mack water-soaked ground covered with low 

 swamp plant-. The vicinity of a wet depression or the tangled border 

 ni a swampy tract of pine or cypress is particularly frequented. 



Chloealtis conspersa Ban-is. 



Glen Echo, Maryland, VII, 10, L914, Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, L914, (H.j 



B.; luxuriant grasses and other veg- area of Andropogon and other 



etataon on hill slopes covered with low grasses), 1 cf, 19. 

 Mattered pines ,6 ', 6 9 . 



The presenl record- extend considerably the known range of this 

 northern species southward near the Atlantic < loasl : in the Appalach- 

 ian- it is found at high elevations as far south as North Carolina. 

 The -eric- here considered is composed of large individuals and the 

 female- are all of the normal condition with greatly reduced tegmina 

 and wing 

 Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister). 



District of Columbia. 

 Washington, LX.23, 1883, 1 9,[Hebard 



Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. A: H.), 



2 juv. c?. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & II . 



1 juv. 9 . 

 I', tersburg, VII, 23. 191:5. (R. All . 



3 juv. 9. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 21. 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. cf, 1 9. 

 Greensboro, VII. 26, 1913, (R. & II . 



1 juv. cf . 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 .1 juv. o", 1 juv. 9 . 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & II , 



1 juv. cf • 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, (E .& li ,2 \ 

 Wilmington, IX. 8, 1911, (R. A ii . 



1 \ _■ 

 Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911. iR. A- H.), 



5 -.3 9. 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911. (R. A- Hi, 



Smith Carolina. 

 Florence, IX. 6, 1911. (P.. A II . 



imbia, VII, 28, 1913. (R. .VII 

 . 1 juv. 9. 



1913. (It.). 

 1913, (H.), 2 

 VIII, •"), 1913, 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 1."., 1913, (R.), 



1 cf. 



Yemassee, IX, 4. 1911, (R. & II. , 

 4 cf, 5 9. 



< i< orgia. 

 Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 



2 juv. cf ■ 

 Toccoa, VIII, 1 -5, 



juv. d", 1 juv. 9 . 

 Currahee Mountain, 



(H.), 2 juv. 9 . 

 Thompson's Mills, X. 1909, (H. A 



Allard), 2 J>, [U. S. X. M.J. 

 Buckhead, VIII. 2, 1913, (R. & EL), 



1 juv. 9. 



Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. .V 



II ,), 1 '; IX. 12, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913', (R. & H.i. 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 

 Augusta, VII, 29. 1013, (R. & H.), 



4 cf , 4 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 cf , 1 juv. cf, 2 juv. 9. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



1 cf, 1 9, 1 ju\ 

 He of Bope, IX. :;, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 cf . 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf, 



:; i ; XII. 1908, 'H.j, 19, 1 juv cf. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 3 cf. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



Cumberland Island, YI1I. 31, 1911, Florida. 



ni R " * ^ttt 1 9 V ron rp v- n Jacksonville, VIII, 25, L911, R 4 



Albany, \ III. 1, 1916, 'K. & H , g ( 



* .'■] '• ___ , .. Atlantic Beachi VIII, 24r-25, 1911, 



Bainbndg< . IX, ••- i . L910, J I . 



: ', ' n vti .on to Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, R & II 

 Spring Creek, \ I. \II. l'.»l 1-12. 10 



- Bradley .1 M9. v ' 



Scarcely any -ize variation i- apparent over the distribution of 

 the present species. Males in the series before us range in length 

 from 21.5 to 27 mm., females from 31.5 to tO nun. Several specimens 

 from southern Georgia show a considerable reduction in the pronotal 

 crest, which might confuse them with A. granvlata, were other 

 differential characters, which separate these two distinct species, qoI 

 carefully observed. The heighl of this crest, measured vertically 

 from the dorso-caudaJ angle of the pronotum, is variable in all of 

 tin- series now under consideration, extreme- measuring as follow-: 

 males, 2 to 2.7 mm., female-. 2.3 to 3.4 mm. The great majority of 

 specimens approach more closely the maximum in this measurement. 



The specimens of palest coloration have the ventral surface of the 

 body very dark, which portion of the body is almost black in the 

 normal type of this insect; in .1. granulata, this surface is normally 

 very pale, only occasionally weakly suffused with brown. 



The presenl species was found in dry situations, particularly in 

 mote open woodlands long-leaf and short-leaf pine, pine and oak or 

 only deciduous trees), in fields along the edge of forests and occa- 

 sionally in grassy fields; on Stone Mountain. Georgia, a single speci- 

 men was found on the bare granite rock surface at the summit. 



- iuth of northern Florida, the species is known from but one 



record, Orange City Junction, Florida. 



Arphia granulata 3 



South Carolina. Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, I: a II 

 1 '"'- u 8ton< -' ' Mix<m'a ' Hammock, < >1 fenokee 



A \ - 1' 



Swamp. V. If,. L915. II . 1 ' 



Manning V 28, 1914, \\ S \ Mnh ,; ,'. 1:1I ,; | v , , v , , ,,„ 



x N H ' J. C Bradley .7 \ 5 9, 1 juv i , 



Fluri'1'i 



3l - [aland, VIII, 30, 1911, Jacksonville, VIII, 26, 1911, R a II 



l: .vil 6 ', 5 l l Priddej 



Brunaw ek VIII. ■■". I'M 1 . 1 1 H( bard Cln 



Atlantic Beach, \ III. 25, 1911, I: a 



Cumberland [aland, \ III 31, 1911, II 



l: a n _• ■ Ortega, IX.6, 1913 W I Da via), 1 ' 



Hebardville. V, 15, 1915, II Indian River, T .1 Priddej I 



\ III 28 1911, II 2 . Hebard Cln 




L76 PROCEEDINGS 01 Mil ICADEMY OF \pril, 



In the present species the height of the pronotal crest, measured 



vertically from the dorso-caudaJ angle of the pronotum, is moderately 



variable in all of the material in our collections, the extremes measur- 



- follow-: males 1.4 2 mm., females 1.5 2 mm. The minimum 



of this measurement is approached by the majority of specimens. 



The present species is widely distributed through the pine woods 



Florida and extreme southern Georgia and is an inhabitant of low, 

 flat country. < >n Mixon's Eammock a specimen was taken on the 



gi of an oak grove. The insect is known from localities extending 

 from Wilmington, North Carolina, and Waynesville, Georgia, west- 

 ward as far as Thomasville, Georgia, and south to Key West, Florida. 



Arphia sulphurea (FabriciuB). 



Maryland. Charlotte, VII, 27. 1913, (K. & II 

 Chesapeake Beach, 1 y. [Davis ('In. ]. ''• 



GlenEcho .VII ,10 ,1914, EL),lcf,19. Lilko loxaway, \ (Mrs. A. 1 . >!..<- 

 Washington, D. C., VIII, 1883, 2 d\ son b *9. [Davis Cln.J. 

 [Hebard Cln.]. South Carolina. 



Virginia, Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (B I, 



Georgia, 



■ Falls, VI, 26, 1914, (W. T. l ]UV ' 9 

 Davis ■ 1 9 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Clayton, 2 000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



H 19 1 iuv d. ( J - C - Bradley), 2d 1 ; M. VII, 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 19, 1909-% T tt^kfiSlw ? T 



i ; uv Pinnacle Peak, \ II, 21, 1910, (Y\ . I . 



Lynchburg. VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), R1 D »™). \ <{■ . , P _.. f . .. 



j o Black Hock Mountain, 3,500 feet, V, 



.. ,, ,. , 20-25, 1911, (J. C. Bradlev ), 1 d. 



A orth ' " n,h ""- Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, VII, 



Manteo, V and VI, 1903, 1 cf, 19, 1910, W. T. Davis), 1 d- 



[Davis Cln.]. Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 



Weldon, IV. 20, L908, (B. Long), Id 1 , Id 1 . 



[A. N. S. P.]; VII, 24. 1913, (R. & Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 



H.), 19. 5, 1913 (H.j, 19. 



sborp, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2juv. 9. 2d*. 



Mature individuals of the present insect appear in the early spring, 

 while the above records show that desultory adults are still presenl 

 as late as early August. 



The most southern definite record for the species is Leon County, 

 Florida, near the Georgia State line. 



Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 



Maryland. Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & II. . 



Glen Echo, VII, 10. 191 1. B.), 1 <f. * <?» 1 J uv " $> l i uv *. 9 ' Q ,„ , , 



Montgomery County, 4 9, [Hebard 

 Virginia. Cln 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, I: & Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & II 



H.j, - - 2 juv. d, 2 juv.. 9. 2d, 19. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, R. & EL), 1 d. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



North Carolina. Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, VII, 



Weldon, VII. 24, 1913, (R. & II. . l'- ,ln - W. T. Davis), ; 



1 % 19, 1 juv. 7. Jasper, 1,550 feet, Mil. 5, 1913, R . 



sboro', VII, 26, 1911, K. & II . ' 



I | lliV i : , Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, I. 1913, II . 



Charlotte, VII, '27, mi:;. R. & II . 19- 



1 j U v ; Curranee Mountain, \ III. • >. 1913, 



Fayettevilie, IX. 9, 1911, R. & II . n ■ '■ w .„ 



i 19 rhompson a Mills, spring 1909, (Al- 



Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911, R. & II. . I:ir ' 1 , 1 of, 19, [U. S. N. M 



I * Rome, VIII, 21, 1910, l \ 19, 



South Carolina. G i State J i'i 



vi^™„ iv .■ ion d i ii Buckhead, VIII. 2, 1913, R. & II 



Floren. :e, IX. 6, 1911, (R. & H.), , - ., - ., ; ' 



.,,,,■;.' i i' , i TV - inn , i> » u Stone Mountain, 1,600 feet, \III. 3 



Millivan island, l.\. 5, 1911, il\. & H.), ., ... ,, ,. 



(,■ 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 

 1913, l: &H .1 -.19. 



ton. 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, Gainesville, IV. 12. 1911, J. C. Brad- 



•I C. Bradley . 2 ' : VI, 1909, | ey ) i ; 



W.T.Davis), 5^, 4 9. Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, R & H 



Pinnacle Peak, VIII. 20, 1913, J C. 3 .- 7 ; ■> JI1V 



Bradley), 2 \ Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, R & II 



HIa'k Rock Mountain, 3,000 and 3,500 3 j gn 1 ; uv o 



■ V. 20-25, 1911, .1 C. Bradli 



1 \19. 



In the series before us 8 perceptible increase in robustness is found 

 southward in the distribution at low elevations of the present sp< 

 this is accompanied by an appreciable reduction in the pronotal 



■ and a moderate broadening of the vertex. Material from 

 altitudes of 3.000 feet or over in the mountains of North Carolina 

 and Georgia is quite similar to materia] from Massachusetts, bul 

 tin- pair before us from elevations of 3,000 and 3,500 feet on Black 

 Rock Mountain, Georgia, are very large, more attenuate, with higher 

 cresi ami more compressed vertex, tin- dorsal surface of which is 

 excavate. 



Although material of the present species from the country adjacent 

 to that in which C. austrcUior is found Bhows certain characters more 

 like those found in thai species, uo intergradation whatever exists, 

 and C. dustrnimr shows definitely a more recent common anci 

 with C. cuberwi8, as has already been observed. The southeastern 

 limits of the present insect's distribution define sharply the north- 

 western limits of the range of C. austraiior, which throughout its 

 range appears to wholly supplant C. viridifasciata, 



Male immature example- in the earliest instars have the subgenital 

 plat, scoop-shaped, in the larger young this plate i- much as in the 

 adult condition. In the above series there are very small young 

 from Lynchburg, Virginia; < ireensboro andt Sharlotte, North ' larolina, 

 and Augusta, Georgia, which afford decided evidence thai the ii 




178 PROCEEDINGS OP PHE \< \m.\n OF April. 



i- particularly a spring species over the entire portion of it- range 

 treated in the present paper, as adults are usually found to bi scarce 

 irly as the middle <>t' July. At about this time the young were 

 found quite aumerous in Virginia and North Carolina. 



\\ e have aever Been specimens of the presenl insecl Bhowing any 

 indication of a reddish suffusion, which is so striking in occasional 

 specimens, particularly those in the green phase, of C. australior. 

 In the presenl series eighteen males and oine females arc of the brown 

 phase. -even male- and twenty-two females are of the green phase, 

 while one female is brown suffused with green. 



This species prefers upland surroundings where it thrive- in the 

 open in area- of shorl grasses; it is also found along the borders of 

 woodland- 1 Weldon and ( Ireensboro, North < iarolina; Jasper, ( leoi 

 and was found scarce in bunch-grass growing on granite slopes (Stone 

 Mountain. ( leorgia). 



On the Atlantic coast the insect is known as far south as Sullivan 

 Island. South Carolina, inland the most southern records are Florence, 

 South Carolina: Augusta, Marshallville and West Point, Georgia, and 

 Flomaton. Alabama. 49 The species is found far south of this latitude 

 in Texas, and we have specimens before us from as far east on the 



Gulf COast as Biloxi, Mississippi. 

 Chortophaga australior Reho and Hcbard. 



Georgia. Spring Creek. VI. 7-YI1I. 28, 1911, 13. 



Savannah, A. Oemler), 1 X. [U. S. (J- C. Bradley), 8 <?, 6 9 . 



Tybee Island, VII. 26, 1913, (J. C. riorum. 



Bradley), 1 J, 19; IX, 2, 1911, Fernandina, (Fenn), 1 ?, [U. S. N. M.]. 



II .ltf 1 Jacksonville. VIII. 25, 1911, (R. & 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9 • H.), 19. 1 juv. <?; IX, 7, 1913, 



St. Simon- Island, VIII, 30, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 1 tf; XI, 5, 1911, 



(R.&B ,3 ',99, 1 juv. <?. W. T. Davis), 2 <?, 5 9 . 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 d\ Atlantic Beach, VIII. 24-2.1. 1911, 



1 J . (R. & H.), 5 d\ 12 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Cumberland Island, IV. 29, 19, Pablo Beach, IX, 5, 27, 1913, (W. T. 



State Cln.J; VIII. 31, 1911, Davis), 3 <?, 4 9. 



i: a H .1 \ 4 9. Live Oak. VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, <H.), Id 1 . 3 9. 



Billy's Island, VI, VII, IX. 1912-13, St. Vincenl Island, XI. 1. 1910, 



jf. C. Bradley), 8 X 6 9 . (W. L. McAtee), 2 o", 19, [U. 8. 



Bomerville, VIII, 27, mil. (R. & H. . X. M.]. 



l . St. Augustine, XI. 8, 1911, (G. P. 



Albany, VIII. l. mm. R. & H.), 1 d\ Englehardt), l 9, [B. I.]. 



1 ; .' 1 juv. \ 1 juv. 9. Cedar Keys, VI, '.), 1 9, [l". S. X. M.]. 



a. IX. 8, 1910, J. C. Bradley), Sanford,III, (A. N. Caudell), 1 9,fU.S. 



i •. m x. M.l. 



Bainbridge, IX. 3-X, 19, 1910, (J. C. Indian River, 1896, (T. .1. Priddey), 



Bradley . ■'> .'. 6 9. 1 c\ 19, [Hcbard Cln.|. 



See under C. australior, Morse's records of this insecl which apply properly 



to tha' 




1916.] NATURAL -' [ENI ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17'.» 



Scarcely any geographic variation is found in the present species, 

 individuals from southern Florida are, however, as a rule slightly 

 more robust than those from Georgia. 



In the above series two males and eight female- have a more or 

 lecided reddish suffusion on the dorsal surface of head, pronotum 

 and caudal femora. The series contain- twenty-three males and 

 eleven females in the brown phase, and -i\ male- and twenty-eight 

 females in the green phase. A- is true in c. viridifasciata, the 

 majority of males are of the former color phase, while the majority 

 of female- are of the latter, a very much greater diversity in tone 

 and intensity of -hade and marking is, however, found in the present 

 insect. 



The species i- found abundant in colonies in very short grass of 

 fields, along roads and in uncultivated -put- in and about town-. 

 When one specimen is flushed often a dozen or twenty will fly up. 

 then frequently other- will not be seen for many yards. The flight 

 of this species is swift and is accompanied by quite a loud buzzing 

 Bound. In sandy fields overgrown with short grasses on St. Simon's 

 Island, Georgia, and at Atlantic Beach. Florida., the insects were 

 present in meat numbers. The species i- known to be present in the 

 adult condition throughout the year over it- entire range. 



The distribution of the present insect ranges from the Dry Tor- 

 tugas, Florida, northward to Savannah, Georgia, the most north- 

 western localities at which it has been found being Tif ton, Albany 

 and Spring Creek, Georgia, and Ft. Barrancas, Florida. 60 



Encoptolophus sordidus [Bunm 



D ' age, VII, 21, 1913, R & II. . 



Washington, IX. 1883, i \ [Hebard • i ,lv - '• • J"'- 



Cln \,, l -n l Carolina. 



Dsboro, \ II. 26 1913, R I II . 

 Fredericksburg, \II. _'". 1913, It & colony oi very small youns found. 



M.I;.. < harlotfe , VII, 27, L913, R & M , 



1 jw\ 



A very feu immature example- are all the specimens of the present 

 species which were found by the author- in the southern Piedmont 

 region in late July; Morse secured but few example- of this insect 

 when working in this region in late August and early September. 

 Charlotte, North Carolina, is the most -out hem record for the present 



ect, which is very -cane over all but tin- most northern portion of 



■ I ■ ■ [aland and 



and < !arrabelle, Warrington and 

 properly referable to the pi 




180 



PRO( i.i DINGS "i mi: \< \i>i:\n 01 



[April, 



the territory a1 present under consideration. The distribution of the 

 presenl species is known to extend westward to the Greal Plains 

 in the latitude of Nebraska; south of this the mosl western records 

 arc eastern Kentucky and Roan Mountain Stat ion, Tennessee. Scud- 

 der's Florida record is based upon a misident ilicat ion of C. austrdlior, 

 San— hit'- records for ( reorgia and Florida likewise cannot be crediti d 

 to this species, while Coquillett's CaliforniaD record applies to a 

 western Bpecies. 



Pardalophora : '' phoenicoptera (Burmelster). 



Is 1 ."'-'. Hippisciu (H[ippi8cu8\) texanus Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp .267, 286 



[Dallas and San Antoniu. 'Texas. j 



Maryland. 



Queen Anne County, VIII, 15. 1902, 



(E. C;. Vanatta), i ?, [A. X. S. P.]. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, K. & 



II ,6 ',29. 

 Orange, VII, 21, L913, (R. & H.), 1 o". 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & II . 



*1 o*. 

 Petersburg, VII. 23, 1913, (R. & II . 



- 

 Suffolk. (C. W. Johnson), 19, [A. N. 

 ^ I'.]. 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon, VI I. 24, L913, (R. & H)., 



3 o", 39. 

 Hertford County, VI, 9, 1895, lo" 



[A. X. S. P.]. ' 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 '. 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 



Smith ( 'unit i fill. 



Columbia, VII, 28, L913, (R. A: H.), 



2 o". 

 Manning, V, 30, L914, (W. Stone , 



6cf, [A. X. S. P.]. 



Georgia. 



Clavton, VI, I'.tO'.t, W. T. Davis), 



4 cf, 29. 

 Black Rock Mountain, V, 20-25, 1911, 



.1. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9. 



Toccoa, VIII, I-".. 1913, (H.), 2 d\ 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, ~>, 1913, 



(H.),19. 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII. <>, 1913, (R.), 



19. 

 Buckhead, VIII. 2, 1913, (R. & li I. 



19. 

 Stone Mountain, VIII. 3, 1913, (R. & 



II , 19. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain. VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & II. , 2 9. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.i, 



2 o", 19. 

 Warm Springs, VII, 18, 1913. (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9; VIII, 9-10. 1913, 



i; i, l o*. 



Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 

 < !umberland Island, IV, 29, 1911, 1 d", 



[Ga. State Cln.]. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 3 o", 



3 9,1 juv. 9 . 

 Billy's Island, IV, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 d", 1 9. 



Bainbridge, V, 30-VI, l, 1911, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 



Spring Creek, VI. 7-VII, 29, 1911. 



i.I. C. Bradley), 5 o\ 2 9 . 

 Floriiln. 

 Jacksonville. V. 1SS5, (W. H. Ash- 



mead), 2 9; (T. J. Priddey), 4 cf, 



4 9 , [all Hebard Cln.]. 

 Knterpri.se, IV, 24, 1903, 1 juv. 9 , 



[U. S. X. M.]. 



An examination of the material upon which Scudder based his 

 H. texanus shows that name to be an absolute synonym of the present 

 species. In Scudder's key that portion which separates these two 



61 In the resurrection of this name we follow Kirby, Sip, mi. Catal. Orth., Ill, 

 p. 206, (1910). Thia genus offers more important characters to separate it from 

 true Hippiscus than is the case with numerous other recognized (Edipodine 

 genera. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



(e 1 and e 2 ) is diagnostically worthless; such variation as is noted in 

 tegminal markings is found everywhere in the eastern series before us 

 whirl) belong unquestionably to the same species; it is impossible to 

 separate Scudder's series of texanus from the present insect by means 

 of tegminal contour, while the "sharp" and "not very sharp" lateral 

 carina? of the pronotum are intangible. Tin- g- portion of the key 

 serves fully a- well to separate i>lm uicopterus from haldemanii. 



- .lively any ideographic variation in size is found in the present 

 species over that portion of it- range here considered; however. 

 materia] from the low-land portion- of ( ieorgia. from Florida and 

 Texas, -how- a somewhat greater robustness of the caudal femora 

 accompanied by an appreciable increase in the lamellation of the 

 ventral margins of the same. The terminal length in the present 

 series is variable irrespective of geographic distribution, extremes 

 of the present series measure a- follows; males 27. .1-32 mm., female- 

 ;:; 13 mm. The specimens from Texas are a- large as the larg 

 specimens here recorded and have tegmina which, in the majority 

 of such specimens before us, very slightly exceed in length the maxi- 

 mum in the present series. 



In the present series are five male- and two female- with head. 



pronotum and caudal femora greenish. Specimens from the low- 

 land of Georgia and from Florida are somewhat more brilliantly 

 colored and show a greater diversity of coloration than do those 

 which compose the remainder of the series; among these are several 

 female- and one male with head, pronotum and caudal femora paler 

 than usual and almost immaculate, while the tegminal markings are 

 considerably reduced in number. A female from Augusta, Georgia, 

 i- uearly immaculate, but darker in coloration than these specimens. 

 The present insect appears adult in the early spring, and by the 

 first of August few survivors remain. South of the northern portion 

 Florida the species is known from but four specimens, two males 

 captured at Lakeland, a female from Cleveland and an immature 



female from Bouthside, Miami. 

 Hippiicui rugoiui (Scudder) 



1892 II ,'■■ ■ II PP • compacltu Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp 268 288 

 ■ north Potoma M 



Scudder, Psj che, \ I. pp 268, 301 

 Pennsylvania: Maryland: Washington, l» I . Indiana; southern 



Illinois; Top< 



"These tpecimei maximum development of the robustness of the 



.1 femora and the increase in the lamellation "i the ventral margins of t lie 



i.; 




182 



1'Kcn | | dim;s nl | in \. \|>i;\n OF 



! April, 



1892 H ippiscua (£T[»ppueu«]) nUurojM Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp 268,30] 



Moline, Illinois.] 

 1901. HippUcua eitrinus Scudder, Can. Ent., XXXIII, p 88 [Alabama.] 

 L906. Hippiscua immoculatua Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 119. [Clarendon, 

 Texas.] 



Maryland. 

 Marshall Ball, VIII. 9, 1883, 1 9, 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Washington, D. C, VIII. 1883, l i . 



[Hebard Cln , 



Virginia. 

 Arlington, \ II. 9. 1914, (H.), 1 juv. o\ 

 Fredericksburg, VII. 20, 1913, (R. & 



II . 12 '. I juv. \ :: juv. 9. 

 i 'rani:.'. VII. 21, 191 I. Et. & B.). 1 o". 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H), 



1 d\ 1 juv. 9. 



Worth Carolina. 

 Weldon. VII, 24, 1913, (R. & II. . 



Wilmington, IX, s, 1911, (R. & II . 



1 . 2 

 Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911, R. & 11/. 



6 d\ 10 9. 



South Carolina. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. .V- B.), 

 6 cf. 



Georgia. 

 Thompson's Mills, X, L909, II \ 



Allard), 3 c?\ 1 9. [U. S. V M.]. 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, i II . _' juv. 9. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & B.), 



juv. numerous. 

 Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, EL a 



II. . 1 juv. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & Hi. 1 o". 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19,1 juv. 9 . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 19, 3 juv. o". 

 Albany. VIII, 1, 1913, R. & B.), 



1 o", 19. 

 Bainbridge, VII, 15-27, 1909, (J. C. 



Bradley), 49. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 5 cf, 1 9, 1 juv. cf 1 . 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



8 o", 5 9. 



Live Oak. \ 111, 26, 1911, (R. & Hi. 



1 o", 1 9. 



Three of the species described by Scudder in 1892, H. compactus, 

 variegatutf* and sutwalis, are inseparable from H. rugosus; though 

 particularly based upon color pattern, not even sufficient color 

 differences exist to enable one to choose various color forms such as 

 are to be found in numerous other species of Orthoptera, where, how- 

 ever, names for these cannot be used owing to their multiplicity, inter- 

 gradations and lack of specific importance. Other characters given 

 to separate these "species" by Scudder are without exception worth- 

 less, this is due to their variability or to the fact that they are based 

 upon differences which are so slight as to be unappreciable. 



The specimen described, in 1901, by the same author as H. eitrinus, 

 is merely a very dark specimen of the present species, no other 

 characters are given nor do any exist to further distinguish the 

 specimen. 



Morse has described a single male from Clarendon, Texas, as H. 

 immaculatu8. This insect is but a very pale individual of the presenl 

 species. The normal tegminal marking of H. rugosus is absent, the 



M Th:- name has already been correctly svnonymized by Blatchley, Orth. of 

 Indiana, p. 270, L903 




1916.] NATURAL 8( LENI ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



only remaining maculations suggesting those of PardaZop^ora apiculata 

 II. tubtrculatus of authors), but much less distinct. This specimen, 

 which shows the greatest amount of recession in color pattern of any 

 individual of the present species we have seen, has in consequence, 

 as is often true in such cases, a decidedly different facies, >ince the 

 normal tegminal markings are all but obliterated. 



In the present species minor differences exist in every large series 

 in robustness, rugosity of the pronotum and angulation of the caudal 

 margin of the same. Length of tegmina, number and size of tegminal 

 maculations and wing length. None of these differences arc however, 

 of any geographic importance. The extremes in tegmina! length 

 of the material at present under consideration are as follow-: males, 

 23.2 to 28 nun., female- 28.8 to 35 mm. A number of the specimens 

 before us of the present species from Nebraska exceed the maximum 

 of these measurements, as is also true of western specimens of Par- 

 dalophora phcenicoptera. 



The specimens before us exhibit much variation in the number and 

 situation of the tegminal maculations, varying from a type in which 

 the tegmina are covered with -mall and more or less disconnected 

 maculations, to one in which these markings are much fused, forming 

 five or six broad irregular transverse bands. 



All of the adult specimens from above the fall line and north of 

 Winter Park, North Carolina, have the disk of the wings primrose 

 yellow, varying much less frequently to wax yellow. Southward 

 icatlv one-half the specimens from localities below the fall line have 

 this portion of the wings peach red to orange pink, 64 while the re- 

 mainder vary from light orange yellow to citron yellow. A- in the 

 last species treated, the width of the wing band varies considerably. 



This species begins to appear adult about the middle of July, and 

 by late August and early September i- found mature iii the largest 

 numbers over that portion of it- range treated in the present paper. 

 The species is widely distributed and common through upland 

 field- Virginia localities . in field- near w I- and through t he under- 

 growth, particularly of pine woods other records), while at Stone 

 Mountain, Georgia, it was found in bunch-grass growing on other- 

 wise bare granite -lope-. In southern Georgia ami northern Florida 

 n i- usually rather uncommon, only seldom being found abundant 

 locally (Spring Creek, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida). The records 

 given above are the most southern for the species in Florida. 



listributed through the presenl ollows Winter 



Park Bainbridgi - I I 'kaon- 



Vlllr. ;. • . | . | . . | | ■ 1 , 




184 



PROCKIMM.- OF THE A.CADEMY OF 



| April, 



L911, 

 1911, 



R 

 (R. 



I II 



& il 



w 



Dissosteira Carolina (Unnteus). 



Maryland. 

 Glen Echo, VII. 10, I'M 1. II , 19. 



Virginia. 

 lericksburg, vii, 20, 1913, (R. & 

 II. . 2 ',19,1 jui 

 Orange, \ II. 21, 1913, l: & II . 2 <?. 

 Lynchburg, \ II. 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



l 

 Montgomery County, (E. A. Smyth 

 Jr l \ Hebard Cln.]. 



-: irg, \ II. 23, 1913, K & H.), 

 l '. 



Vorth Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24. 1913, (R. & H.), 

 "common as usual in dusty places.'' 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, R & II . 



1 -.19. 

 Goldsboro, VII. 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



l •• 

 Charlotte, VII. 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 19. 



So Uh ( 'arolina. 

 Spartanburg, VIII. 6, 1913, (H.), 1 <?. 



No geographic variation appears to exist in the present series of 

 this very widely distributed and ubiquitous species. Extremes in 

 tegminal length are as follows: males, 29.3 to 33 mm., females, 

 32.5 to 40 mm. The species is everywhere to be found along dusty 

 roads and on more or less bare spots in waste land. It is not nearly 

 as abundant below the fall line south of central North Carolina, 

 however, as in the Piedmont region, and has not been taken anywhere 

 south of Enterprise, Florida. Sufficient work has been done in southern 

 Florida to warrant the statement that the species is not to be found 

 in that region. 



Spharagemon crepitans (Saussure). PI. XII, figs. 9, 10. 



Florence, IV 6, 



fairly common. 

 \l ignolia, 1 V 5, 



occasional. 



■i in. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, 



Davis i. 1 d\ 2 9. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7. 1911, (It.), 1 cT. 

 Thompson's Milk (H.A.Allard , I 



[U.S. N. M.]. 

 Silver Lake, VIII, 10, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley .1 \ 

 Vicinity of Stone .Mountain. \lll .;. 



1913, (R. & II.), 1 9. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, L913, 1! & B I 

 Marn.:. VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & II . 



19. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



occasional. 

 Billy's Island, XI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 lev), 2 o", 59. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d", 2 9. 



Georgia. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 d\39. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



3 <?, 39. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. 6c H.j, 5 cf, 3 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 9, 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (H.), 



4 <?. 

 Pablo Beach, VIII, 11, 12, 1905, 



(R. &H.), 2 d\ 4 9. 

 Cedar Keys, VIII, 15, 1905, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 19. 



The present insect may be separated from its nearest ally, S. bolli, 

 by the following characters: form more attenuate; cephalic margin 

 of pronotum more produced mesad and with margin of crest of pro- 

 zona usually straight and horizontal throughout; tegmina with 

 proximal lobe of costal margin more pronounced; wings with disk 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



usually a more obscure shade of yellow and with distal section more 

 generally, but nowhere as strongly, suffused; caudal tibiae with proxi- 

 mal whitish portion suffused with brown, adjacent Mack hand not 

 as sharply defined, remaining distal portion uniform, but in different 

 specimens varying from cinnamon-buff to vinaceous-rufous; general 

 coloration much more uniform figs. 9 and 10). The present -eries 

 shows clearly that the caudal tibiae arc never as highly colored as in 

 S. botti, and are in the majority of specimens cinnamon-buff. 



The authors unfortunately once confused the species with S. boUi, 

 the last two records given above having been referred to that spe< 



This beautiful insect was found abundant at Cumberland [stand, 

 Georgia, on the sandy soil of a live <>ak '•hammock" near the shore, 

 but a thunder storm and limited time preventing the capture of a 

 large series; it was found very -carer in a similar environment at St. 

 Simon's Island and occasional at Brunswick, Georgia, and Atlantic 

 Beach, Florida. The specimen- taken at Pablo Beach and Cedar 

 Key-. Florida, were found in open palmetto scrub and in palmetto 



scrub in pine woods, respectively. 



The species has never been found far inland from the ocean I )avis 

 has recorded a specimen from ( rainesville, Florida, in the Agricultural 

 Experiment Station Collection: in tin- case we led sure that an 

 •■rror ha- been made in labelling : it was described originally from 

 < leorgia, and the only definite locality other than those given above at 

 which the species has been taken is Key West, Florida, though ex- 

 amination of the specimen, recorded a- S. botti from Carrabelle, 

 Florida, by Morse, -how- it to be this species. 



Spharagemon bolli (Scudder). 



Virginia. ensboro, \ II, 26, I'M.;, l: a II . 



Arlington, VII, 9. 191 t. II . I juv. . . ' 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, I'M., I; a- Charlotte, Ml. _'7. I'M.;. I: a II . 



H. ■ 1 '• 2 . 



Orange, VII, 21, I'M.; I: a II . Bl Mountain, VII and VIII, I'M.'. 



\\ BeutenmQller . 3 I >avia 



LynchDurg, \ II. 22, 1913 R ft B ( ' ln l- 



South Carolina. 



sburg, \ II. _':;. I'M.;. R a ll . Florence, IV 6, I'M l. I: a II i \ 

 i - rtanburg, \ 111. ■ '■. I'M.;. II . 



Sarin Carolina. . ■ ', ', ', ,, . ' ,,,, . ,. , ,, 



< olumbia. VII, 28, 1913. I; a II . 

 Weldon, \ II. 24, I'M.;, i: a ll . , ■ 



\l inning, \ 28 I'M I. w Stone), 

 Goldsboro, \ II. 25, 1913, R A II . •; ,, 1V • | ,, .. 



tteville, IX. '». I'M I. i: a 1 1 . 

 l \ Dalton, \ III. 7. I'M.;. I: . occ uional 



I'icm. \. u>. N - Phuwi . r» L907 




186 pro< i i dings oi i hi v \i-i.\n oi [April, 



Jasper, VIII, 5. 1913. R ,2 '. - . Vicinitj of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3 



Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, R L913, (R. & H.), I " 



l j Buckhead, \ III. 2, 1913, (R. & H 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. Bradle\ . 8 ' 



I > . - 2 . 2 Warm Springs, VIII. 9-10, 1913, 



\ 111. I -:.. 1913, II . 2 ' R .1 -.79. 



Currahee Mountain, Mil. 5, 1913, Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, fB & H.), 



II. . 1 \ l . 

 Thompson's Mills, X. 1909, ill. A. 



Alhr.l ,19, [U. S. X. M.J. 



No geographic variation is shown in the presenl material, bu1 

 individuals of many series vary greatly in >i/.e, tegminal Length, 

 genera] coloration and intensity and recession of color pattern. The 

 extremes of tegminal Length are as follows: males 22. G to 28 mm., 

 females, 27.8 to -V-i nun. 



The majority of specimens arc of different .shades of brown, mod- 

 erately maculate and with caudal femora weakly thrice handed with 

 a darker -hade. A very few females are considerably paler, nearly 

 immaculate, with the hand- on the caudal femora greatly obscured, 

 while a number of the males and two females are nearly black in 

 general dark coloration, but have the color pattern nearly always 

 decidedly intensified. None of these variations indicate any geo- 

 graphic significance, as all of the larger series include specimens of 

 the palest as well as darkest coloration. 



The present insect is widely distributed and abundant in upland 

 situations, particularly in and about oak or mixed oak and pine 

 woods of the Piedmont region. In the lower country it is found 

 common in pine and oak woods as far south as Weldon, North 

 Carolina; south of this in the lower country it is rarely met with 

 and always in very few numbers (Goldsboro and Fayetteville, N. C, 

 Florence, S. C, Thomasville, Ga.). The species has not been found 

 southeast of Florence and Denmark, South Carolina; Macon and 

 Thomasville, Georgia, and Tallahassee, Florida. 



8pharagemon collare wyomingianum (Thomas). 



Virginia. Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (K. & H.), Bradley),19. 



i I Spring (reck, M-MI, 1911-12, (.J. I . 



Georgia. Bradley), 1 cf, 1 9 . 



Augusta, \ [1,29, 1913, (R.A H.), 1 cf. Florida. 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Live Oak, Mil, 26, 1911, (H.), 1 cf, 



ley 19. 



Previously recorded specimens from Thomasville, Georgia, and Fer- 

 nandina and Gainesville, Florida, are inseparable from the present 

 series; this is also true of one male recorded by the authors as S. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



crista! a 111"''' from Albany, Georgia. The latter specimen is, however, 

 somewhat larger, with longer tegmina and greater pronotal dimen- 

 sions than any other specimen in the present series. 



All of the material here studied belongs I Le and the same 



geographic race of S. collar e, but agrees perfectly with none of the 

 known races as Morse has defined them. Taking Morse's differential 

 characters 57 the -eric- falls under S. c. wyomingianum in having a 

 head which in facial aspect is nearly subequal in width, with more 

 prominent eyes and in the proximal fuscous bands on the inside of the 

 caudal femora being but faintly or not at all connected; in respect to 

 size, however, the series agrees with the larger S. c. scudderi; the pro- 

 notal crest is very high, suggesting a very strong tendency toward S. 

 cristatum. The increase in size of tin- series over New England 

 individual- of S. c. wyomingianum, with accentuation of pronotal 

 cristation, may be due to geographic variation, hut the specimens 

 before us from Virginia show qo such variation, agreeing with 

 mat. -rial from Florida. Study of the genus, with large series from 

 all portions of it- distribution, can alone determine the validity and 

 distributional extent of the races of the present species. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Beighl Length 



Length Length of Length ol 



cf of <■; pronotal of caudal 



body, pronotum. crest. tegmen. femur. 



2.4 26. 1 1 7 



Augus 6 2 2.2 •_':. 1 lit 



Billy's Island, Ga 22. 5-23. 9 6.-6.2 2.1-2.3 24.-25.3 L3.4-14 



Albany, < la 26 2 7 1 2 5 28 1 1 7 



Thomasville, Ga 21 23. »', 1 •'. 5 2 2.2 21 _' 25 l 11 6 11 



Live Oak, Fla 23 2 2 I 24.7 it 



9 



30 6 7 .; 2.5 28 8 Hi 3 



ThomasvUle, Ga.. 24.8-28.3 6.9-7.9 _' 2 2 1 25 5 27 15 15 7 



Bainbridge, G 28 2 29 9 1 '■ - 2 5 2.9 27 8 29 3 15 3 L8 



Gainesville, Fla 26 7.1 2.4 25 1 16.8 



The present ammophiloue species was found very scarce in a sandy 

 field overgrown with scattered low weeds (Petersburg), only one 

 imen was found in a Bandy scrub oak .ova Augusta . while :i 

 pair were discovered in a sandy cotton field (Live 1 1 



i( o. Nai 8< 1 Phila., 1910, p. 593 L91 1 

 lT /V... <• \ 11. p 295, ! v '"' 



M A- Spring <V.-.-k 1- I. ut ., few miles from Bainbridge, we have here included 

 the measurements of the female from thai locality, 




38 



PRO( l l DINGS <>1 l in: \> \iu.\l\ 'U 



[April, 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911 



i: a II ... 2 '. ii9. 

 Brunswick, \ III. 30, 1911, M 

 Cumberland Island. IV. 29, 1911, 



,i < !. Bradlej I, I '; \ [11,31, 1911, 



i; & II. i, 19. 

 SpringCreek, \ [-VIII, 1911 -13, J C. 

 Bradlej . 6 .19. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, V, 1886, (W. II. Ash- 

 mead), I '. [Hebard Cln. . \ III. 

 25, 1911, K & II I '. 39; 

 IX, 5, 1911, i\V. T. Davis), 2 



Atlantic Beach, V III 24, 1911 R A 

 II. I. 19. 



Live Oak. VIII, 26, 1911, i: a ll . 

 5 o", 2 9 . 



Enterprise, V, 11, 1 ■'. [U. S. N. M.i 



Gotha, 1 ?, [U. S. X. M.]. 



Scirtetica marmorata picta (Seudder). 

 Vorth Carolina. 



Southern Pines, 1906, l 9, [U. S. 



\ \i. 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, R. & II . 



Winter Park. IX. 7. 1911, R & II , 

 19. 



S Uh Carolina, 

 Florence, IV 6, 1911, R. a II . I 

 Columbia, \ II. 28, 1913, R. & B.), 

 1 juv. rf 1 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Gt orgia. 

 Augusta, VII. 29, 1913, (R. A- B.), 



1 ". 2 juv. ". 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. ; . 

 Isle of Bope, IX. 3, 1911, (R. A B.), 



1 .19. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (H. A II ... 1 d\ 



19. 



The intergradation betweenthis geographic race and S.m.marmorata, 

 shown by the material recorded above from southern North Carolina, 

 has recently been fully treated by the present authors. 59 



The general coloration in the present series ranges from clove 

 brown to ferruginous, often more or less strongly washed with gray. 



The present insect is also ammophilous and is found usually in 

 -mall colonies scattered through the woods in the more sandy situa- 

 tions. It was found above the fall line, but near its very edge at 

 Columbia, "on sand among black jack oaks," and at Augusta, 

 "in sandy tract covered with scrub oaks," at which localities long 

 search revealed but five specimens, of which four were immature. 

 These localities indicate the extreme northwestern distribution of the 

 insect, which is found in the largest numbers in the low country 

 through the more sandy portions of the pine forests, in which situa- 

 tions frequent scrub oaks are usually to be found as well. On the 

 Gulf of Mexico the insect has been taken as far west as Gulfport, 

 Mississippi. 



Piinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



Virginia. 

 Petersburg VII. 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 .19,1 juv. 9. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII. 24, 1913, R. & B.), 1 tf. 



Beaufort. <-n<l of VII. 1 «.»()«.), (V. Sher- 

 man Jr. i, 1 c. [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 



WrightsviUe, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & B. 



I o", 39. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & 1 1 



3 d\ 3 9 . 

 Lake Wacoamaw, IX, 8, l'.Ul. H. A 



II ,1^,19. 



"Proc. Acad. Xvi Sci. Phila., L912, p. 254, (1912). 

 negie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 37, (1904). 



See also Morse, Car- 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



South < 'arolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & II. . 5 . 



29. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, H. cv II. . 



2 ',19. 

 Sumter, V, 30. 191 1. W. Stone), 1 d\ 



[A. X. S. P.]. 

 Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, I: . 



16 d\ 22 9. 

 Sullivan Island, IX. 5, L911, (R. & II . 



1 . . 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, R . 



1 juv. 9. 

 Yemassee, IX, (. 1911, R. & H. , 



1 ' 2 



•i in. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, R. & II. . 



1 cP, 19. 

 [ale of Hope, IX. 3, 1911, U. & II . 



1 '.29. 

 Jesup,' IX. 1. l'.tll, I: ,v H. . 1 . 



XII. I 'HIV ||. . 1 1. 



Offennan, IV. 22, 1911, 19, Ga 



State < 'I' 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, l'.tll. 111 



1 9. 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 

 R. & H.) , 4 ' . II 



Cumberland Island, IV, 29, 1911, 

 .I.e. Bradley), 2 '; VIII, 31, 1911, 

 R. & H.), 2 -.19. 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 4 \ 1 9. 



Oglethorpe, VII, 1. 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 9. 



Qnadilla, 1 \ [Ga. Stat.' Chi 



Albany, VIII, 1. 1913, (R. & II . I 



Bainbridge, IX, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 

 : 



Spring Creek, Yl-YIII. 1911-13, J I 

 Bradley . 28 ". 31 I . 1 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, Mil. 25, 1911, R & H . 

 XI. 5, 1911, W. T. 

 Davja . _' -.19. 

 Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, W. T. Davis . 



1 9. 

 Pablo Beach, VI. 25, I'M.'. J I 

 Bradley), 1 o\ 1 9 : IX, 5, 1911, 



XI, l. I'M:;. \\ T, Davis . 1 \ 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, U. a 



II . in ', 79. 



Much variability in size and wing length is shown by the above 

 material, bul this ha- apparently no geographic significance. The 



specimens from the fele Of Pahn- arc as a whole lame ami -how tin 



teal variation of any series in tegminal length, the extremes in 

 that dimension measuring :i- follows: males, L9.5 to 23.6 nun.; 

 females, 22.4 to 26.8 mm. 



The species -how- three pronounced type- of alar disk coloration; 

 yellow, orange and pink. In the series of specimens from localities 

 Bouth to New Jersey such coloration is found to he baryta yellow 

 (yellow value), light jasper red (pink value) ami occasionally bitter- 

 -weet pink or pale yellow orange, showing that in this region the 

 yellow ami pink color form- e.\i-t, while occasional specimens of 

 the two types are found with an orange tinge. The more southern 

 - above listed -how- no specimens in which this coloration is 

 yellow, as in this series it ie found '" be light jasper red (pink va 

 flame scarlet (orange value) and frequently bittersweel pink or 

 hitter-weet orange, showing that in the southeastern United Si 

 the pink ami orange color forms with intergradients exist. W< 



have the pink type from :i- far SOUtfa a- tin- [gle of I'alni-. South 



< 'arolina: all of the < ieorgia and Florida material belongs either to the 

 orange type or to that type with a slight pinkish suffusion. 

 In the present series a great Dumber of specimens have the distal 




1 ( .»0 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: \<*\l>l.\n OF [April, 



portion of the wing beyond the wing-band heavily suffused, leaving 

 only a oearly circular hyaline spot : this varies to individuals which 

 have this portion of the wing wholly hyaline. In the paler series 

 the majority of specimens Bhow this latter condition, bul greal 

 variation everywhere exists. 



In coloration the present material shows all phases of intensifica- 

 tioo and recession of color pattern, tegmina ranging from those which 

 are nearly immaculate to a mucb mottled and speckled type, and 



individuals which are in general coloration very pale to others which 



an very dark. In the present species the color pattern Is most 

 pronounced in dark individuals and is often almost obsolete in very 

 pale specimens. 



This ammophilous species is found everywhere in sandy situations 

 over the coastal plain of the southeastern United States; it was taken 

 at the fall line (Petersburg, Weldon, Columbia, Augusta), but has not 

 been definitely recorded from the Piedmont plateau. The range 

 of the species extends far northward, and, south of the fall line, fat 

 westward of the region treated in the present paper. 



Trimerotropis maritima CHarris). 



Plumpoint, Maryland, VIII, 10, 1913, Beaufort, North Carolina, end of VII. 

 i\V. T. McAtee), 2 d\ 19. 1 juv. 9 ; 1909, (F. Sherman Jr.), 2d", 19, 



VII. 7. 1912, X. 18, 1912, 1 cf, 6 9, [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 



[all I'. S. N. M.]. Wilmington, N. ('., VII, 1906, (R. S. 



Piney Point, Md., VII, 4, 1879, 19; Wolgum), 4 cf, 19, [X. C. Dept. 



VIII. 12, 1878, 1 9, [U. S. X. M.l. Agr.]. 



Cedar [aland, Virginia, VII, 13, 1914, Smith Island, X. C, X, 1906, (F. Sher- 



(H. G. Dyar), 2 ?. [V . S. X. M.]. man Jr.), 5 d\ 19, [X. C. Dept, 



Fortress Monroe, Va., VI, 8, 1884, Agr.]. 



1 \ fHebard Cln.]. Atlantic Beach, Florida, VIII, 25, 1911, 



Oceanview, Va.. VIII, 9 and 10, 1904, (R. & H.; on strand), 1 d\ 19. 



(A. X. Caudell), 6 d\ 19, [U. S. 



X. M.l. 



As previously stated by the authors, two of the six females recorded 

 from Cape Henry, Virginia, have the caudal tibiae showing a pinkish 

 suffusion. No intergradation whatever with T. citrina is to be found, 

 the hypothesis thai hybridization with that species occurred, 60 being 

 due to the fact that it was not recognized that both red and yellow 

 tibiae are found in maritima. It is true that over the greater portion 

 of the range of the present insect, individuals of the species have yel- 

 low tibiae, but from Cape May. New Jersey, southward, specimens are 

 sometimes met with having reddish tibiae. Of the series here recorded 

 one male (Oceanview) and one female (Plumpoint) have the caudal 



lor--. Carnegie Enst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 38. (1904 , See also Rehn 

 and Hebard, Pno< Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 631, (1911). 




191b.] 



NATURAL S( IKM Ks OF PHILADKLPHIA. 



191 



tibiae suffused with reddish. Numerous specimens from south of 

 Virginia have the wing-band unusually broad and solid for the 

 species, reaching a maximum width on the radiate field of 6 mm. in 

 some malt- and 7 nun. in some females. 



This species is a native of the sand dunes and sandy strand of the 

 Atlantic coast; it has, however, been found some distance inland in 

 area- oi loose -and. It has been previously correctly recorded from 

 as far south as the coast of North Carolina. 



Trimerotropis citrina Scudder. 

 /'. n ngyh/ania. 



Philadelphia Neck, VII. 29, II W. 

 U.ii/h ,19, [A. N. s. p.]. 



Maryland. 



< Ihesapeake Beach, IX. 17. 1914, 

 \ N Caudell . 2 -\ 1 5, [U. S. 

 N U 



nia. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, L913, (R. & H. . 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, \ II. 24, L913, I: & II . l I 

 Fayetteville, IX. 9) L911, (R. .v II 



I ■ 



Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, R & II. . 



i 

 Lake Waccamaw, tX, 8, 1911, R a 



II .1 ',2 



South Carolina. 



Florence IX. 6, L911, R. & B 2 

 Columbia, \ II. 28, 1913, R & II 



l 

 Sullivan [aland, IX. 5, 1911, R A 



II 1.1 



IV I. 1911, i: & H . 



i • 



Innraia 



Clayton, 2,000 feet, \ I L909, W 1 



1 1 

 Tallulah Falla, VII, 1910, W. T 



Davis),' 1 • 

 Thompson's Mills, II A Ulard .'_'.. 



S N \I 

 Atlanta VIII, 30, 1913, J < Brad- 



i . 

 Silver Lake, \ 111. 10, 1913, J C 

 Bradlej . I ' 



Buckhead, VIII. 2, 1913, R. & II . 



1 '. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII. 3, 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley, R. & II 

 3 d\ l ■ 

 Macon, VII. 30-31, 1913, R & H . 



-• 

 Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, II . 1 ' 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, R. & H.), 1 " 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911 



1 1 & 1 1 . l ',29. 

 Brunswick, VIII. 30, 1911, H .39. 

 Cumberland [aland, VIII, 31, 1911, 



i ; ah .i «,ii 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, II . I juv. i 

 Billy's [sland, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 9. 

 Bomerville, VIII, 27, 1911, R. A H. . 



1 

 Thomasville, XII. 1908, II . I ' 

 Qnadilla, VI, 25, 1910, J ' Bradley), 



2 ', 2 



Albany, VIII, I, I'M.; I: & ll 1 

 II [ui . 1 juv. . ; IX. 1. 1910 

 l <\ Bradley . I 



Bainbridge, IX X. 1910, J C Brad- 

 ley . \ ". 5 9. 



Spring Creek, VIII 21 28 1913, J < 

 Bradley . 1 d\ 



Florida 



Jacksonville, IX. 7. 1913, w I 



Davis . I ■ \I. 5, 1911, \\ I 



Davi i 

 Atlantic Beach, \ III. 25, 1911, R a 



II ll 

 Pablo Beach, IX. 27, 1913, \\ I 



Davis . i 



.1 ii. 1911 G P Engle- 



hardl .1 ' B. 1 

 St. Vincent Island, XI. I. 1910, w I 



McAl U. S. N. M 



Little variation of any kind 

 • cimens in \\\<- present 



i~ bdowd by the great majority 

 series, Mors* - supposition thai 




192 PBO< BEDING8 01 I BE H \hi\n 0] [April, 



this insect hybridizes with T. maritima is explained under thai 

 specit - 



Although the present species is essentially a midsummer insect, 

 materia] from southern Georgia shows that adults are uol scarce 

 in that region as late as October, and that battered individuals are 

 found there, though rarely, as late as 1 tecember. This ammophilous 

 insect is found in Bandy situations over it- range, from the ocean 

 beaches (where, however, it is rarely found and in few numbers 

 the waste land and river borders of the southern mountain valleys 

 and Piedmont region and far west of the area treated in the prest nt 

 paper. It is most abundant, however, in the low country south of 

 North Carolina, and is everywhere to be found in the sandy regions 

 of southern Georgia and northern Florida. In extreme southern 

 Florida the species is decidedly scarce, a few specimens having been 

 recorded only from Key West. The most northeastern localities 

 at which the species has been found are Philadelphia Neck, Penn- 

 sylvania, and Maryland, though the occurrence of the species north 

 of southern Virginia is very exceptional. 62 



Trimerotropis saxatilis .McNeill. 



Highlands, North Carolina, IX, 1906, 1 o", 1 9. 



2 '. 2 . . [U. S. X. M.]. Stone Mountain, Georgia, t.OOO 1,686 



Kalmn Bald. ( M-orpia. l.onn- l.sou f,, ,. feet,VIII,3, L913, (Bradley, R,>& H.), 



VIII. 21, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 83 d*, 70 9. 



The following notes were taken from observations made on Stone 

 Mountain, Georgia, a granitic knob rising abruptly 086 feet above the 

 surrounding Piedmont peneplain, which in this vicinity has a mean 

 elevation of 1,000 feet. "T. saxatilis found on bare granite slopes 

 where areas of lichen- were the only vegetation to be found. The 

 northern face of the mountain is precipitous. The species was 

 plentiful about the gently rising slopes at the south base of the moun- 

 tain where the bare rock surfaces were first encountered, particularly 

 so in areas of rock fragments near the adjacent bunch grass vegeta- 

 tion. On ascending further the species was found less numerous, 

 becoming quite infrequent upon the bare rock areas on the slopes 

 clothed with open pine woods, but at the summit, where large bare rock 

 areas occupy the greater portion of the surface, the insect was again 



Set Hebard, I-:m. News, XXVI, p. 403, (191.-)). The south Florida species, 

 Trimerotropis acta, is there described ami compared with maritima and citrina. 

 The misidentincations <>t thai species, as maritima by Caudell, from Palm Beach, 

 and as citrina by Davis, in part, from Ocean Beach mar .Miami, are there COr- 



82 The record of this species from Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania, applies to Sphar- 



agemon m.rntii> planum Morse. See Rehn, Knt. News, XIII, p. .'ill, (1902 




1916.] NATURAL SCIEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



found in considerable numbers. The flight of the species is dis- 

 tinctive; taking- wing with great rapidity, individuals Hy very low 

 for a short distance, but evince great wariness and often have to be 

 approached a number of times before it i- possible to come within 

 striking distance. Only infrequently was the flight accompanied 

 by a Bound, this being a faint clicking whirr like that occa- 

 sionally produced by individuals of the western T. cyaneipennis. 

 The granite surfaces were for the greater part stained to a blackish 

 hue and the majority of specimens were exactly of this coloration, 

 a few were paler, matching similar area- of rock surface, while occa- 

 sional specimens were mottled with greenish and these exactly 

 blended with the lirhenose areas of rock." 



The disk of the wings varies in the present species from light dull 

 green-yellow to the palest green-yellow. 



Except for the color variation mentioned above, little variation is 

 to l>e found in the present series. Extremes of tegminal length 

 measure as follows: male- 18.6 to 21.4 mm., female- 22.8 to 27.2 nun. 



In Georgia the species i- known only from White Oak Gap and 

 Flat Rock on Sand Mountain, outside of the localities given above. 

 The di-trihution of this specie- is highly discontinuous, as it i- con- 

 fined to hare rock surfaces; it has not been taken in the Appalachians 

 north of Highland-. North < !arolina. 



Romalea microptera (Beam 



1839. Romalea mora Serville, lli-i. Nat. Ins . Orth., p. 623. [Near South 

 ( Carolina.] 



South Carolina. Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, R a ll 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, I: a ll . i • 19. 



South Jacksonville, tX, 28 L913, 

 ■""■ W. T Davia . I ■ 



- 1 Circle, V 1- L907, .1 F. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, R a 



Lewis . i •. i r. S N M I! 



Bainbridge, \ I. 2, 1911, J C. Brad- St. Petersburg. [V, 10, 1908, l juv. 

 ley), l jui [A. V - P 



5, 1911, l juv. •. l Rockledge, 19, [A N 8 P 



juv 3 Melbourne. \ C Sirdeneld . 19, 



Hebardville, late \. 1915, Win i - \ m.]. 



Walker), l juv. ',2 juv. i . [Hebard i II, bard I 



Ch i Grove, Mil. 19, 1911, 



ll ■■:■■ l\ 3, I'M I. i: a II . .i \\ Haxshberger ,19, \ V 



9 I'.J. 



Florida. Turn< - 1 1 w Morrill . l i - 

 \\ arrington, All < tale . 3 ju\ n M 



Hebard Cln.]. 



There can be qo question bul that Romalea mora of Serville is 



"This locality i- the abandoned I I near the present town 



of Viking. 




194 i'i;<>< I BDINGS 01 CHE v \M.\n OF \l»ril, 



based on the melanistic color phase of this species. The name 

 should 1"' synonymised, once and for all, under ndcroptera. 



These specimens exhibil the usual amounl of individual variation 

 The Columbia and Social Circle males arc typical of the 

 melanistic phase, while all of the [ale of I lope specimens and thai 

 from South Jacksonville have decided tendencies in the same direc- 

 tion, the dorsum of the head, pronotum and abdomen, as well as the 

 tegmina and limbs, showing much more blackish than usual in the 

 yellow phase. 



The range of this species is now known to extend north in the 

 South Atlantic States as far as Cabarrus County, North Carolina 

 Sherman and Brimley I. 



The species was taken in pine woods undergrowth (Jacksonville 

 ami Isle of. Hope), in palmetto "hammock" (Atlantic Beach) and 

 in grass in waste field (Columbia). 



Having personally quite carefully examined the more austral 

 portion- of both ( )arolinas, as well as the greater portion of the State 

 of Georgia, it seems very certain to us that the locality given by 

 Serville in his original description of Acridium coloratum 6i (Chrom- 

 acris coloraia of present-day nomenclature) is erroneous. His remarks 

 are "Donne par M. Marc du Havre, qui l'a recti d'une partie de 

 l'Amerique. voisine de la Caroline du Sud." We are convinced 

 that the specimen he had did not come from the easterji United 

 State-, but probably was of Mexican origin, as the species is so 

 striking, and so universally secured by collectors who encounter it, 

 that it mu<T make itself quite in evidence in its native habitat. 



Stenacris vitreipennw (Marschall). 



North Carolina. Billy's Island, VII, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 Lake Kill-. V. 14, 1906, 1 cr, 19, !«'>'), 19 . . 



II" 8 N M 1 Chase Prairie, IX, 5 and 15, 191.5. 



Wihninrton, VlII, I, 1909, 2 d\ 29, (J- C - Bradley), 3 c?, 59, 1 juv. cf. 



gia. Florida. 



JesUp, IX. 1. 1911, (R. cV H.), 1 <?. Jacksonville, V and \ III. 1885, ■ \\ H. 



Blackshear, V, 10, 1911, 19, [Ga. Ashmead), 1 cf, 1 juv. o" j ' I . .1 



te Cln.]. Priddey), 1 o", [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Thalman, tV, 28, 1911, 19, [Ga. South Jacksonville, IX. 3, 1913, 



State Cln.]. (W. T. Davis), 1 <?. 



Mixon'e Bammoek, V, 16, 1915, (H.), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24. 1911, (R. & 

 1 J. H.), 1 cf, 19, 1 juv. 9. 



// • Vol !■ Orth., p. 675, (1839 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Daytona, XI. 11. 1911, 1 cf, 15, Enterprise, V. L3 and 15. 1 f. 19, 



S. N. M.J. - V M.]. 



Silver Spring, XI. 25, Hill. 1 \ Elockledge, II. 5, L880, I , [U. S 

 [U. S. N. M.]. X. M 



Melbourne, III. 1 \ \ N S I'.]. 



Six specimens, the Jesup male, two males from Chase Prairie a 

 Jacksonville male and the Atlantic Beach pair, have the pale lateral 

 line on the head, ventral margin of the lateral lobes and pleura 

 distinctly indicated, faint and incomplete trace- of it existing in 

 - era! other specimens. The Jesup male is the only one having the 

 dorsal surface of the head, pronotum ami tegmina faintly brownish, 

 the others, unless by evident discoloration, having this area at l< 

 in part green. The three young all show a narrow dark medio- 

 longitudinal line on the head, pronotum and attingenl edges of the 

 undeveloped tegmina and wings. The antennas in these are similar 

 in form to those of the adult-. 



The range of tin- species is much more restricted than i- the case 

 with the frequently associated Leptysma marginicoUis. The mosl 

 northern record known i- from Lake Ellis, North Carolina Sherman 

 and Brimley), while southward i1 i- unknown from any localities 

 more elevated than Waycross ami Thomasville, < leorgia. The species 



i- thUS -ecu to extend u\ef hut ;i portion of the cn:i-tal plain and 



southward it ha- been taken :i - far a- Miami, Florida, the mosl 

 western known point of it- occurrence being Appalachicola. 



All of the material taken by us was secured in high grasses or 

 rushes in or around swamp or marsh land, excepl in the < tkeefenokee 



Swamp where the specie-. \\,i- i-Vi f\ where to he found ill the den-e 



•I undergrowth of -mall saplings growing out <>\ water in the 

 ahno-t impenetrable -uamp forest. 



Leptysma marginicoUis S 



Maryland. 



■. Point, VIII, '.i. 1913, \\ I 

 McAtee , 1 jui I > \ M 



hington, I ) < ' . I juv . . Hebard 

 Cln 



nia. 



Alexandria, V.27 1 1 S Mill' i . l ', 



U.S. N. M 

 Dismal Swamp, VII, 22 1 1 I' Engle- 

 bardi I B I 



\ orth ' 'arolina. 



Roanoke [aland, VII, 25, P 

 Englehardl I . . I'. I 

 • osboro, VII, 26, 1913, R A 1 1 



1 JUV. ". 7 jir. 




196 PBO< i GOINGS "i i in. \> M'l.Mi 01 [April, 



Billy's [aland, V, 16, 1915, II. . l . : South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, w I 



Y'l-Yll. 1912, (J. C. Bradley .1 ', Davie . l 9. 



l . . i Irtega, Duval County, IX, 6, 1913, 



Honey [aland, VI, l. L912, .1 C. u T.Davis),] , ljuv.9. 



Bradley .19. Atlantic Beach, Mil. 24, 1911, R & 



Chase Prairie, IX, 5, 1913, J. C. II. • v ■.:;.. i juv. \ ljuv.9. 



Bradley), I ju\ Pablo Beach, IN. 5, 1913, (W. T. 



m •/ Davia ' ' '■ 



Honda. Baldwin, 111. :. 1879, I \ Schwarz), 



Jacksonville, VIII. 1885, W '. II Ash- 1 ', [U.S. N. M.|. 



mead . l ', T. J. Priddey), l ?, Enterprise, V, 24 and 25, 2 cf, |l 9 



[all Bebard Cln.]. X. M .]. 



The usual increase is size southward is less marked in this species 

 than is generally the case, and thru only in the female sex. In both 

 3< v- any geographic >ize tendencies are discounted by the very 

 meat individual size variation, the extreme males of the Atlantic 

 Beach Beries 3 for instance, measuring as follows: 



The angle of the fastigium, while individually variable, is as a 



rule more acute in the more southern specimens than in the others, 

 say from Raleigh, North Carolina. The young from Ashley Junction 

 represent the four instars preceding maturity, while those from 

 Greensboro lack the last two stages. From the evidence in hand it 

 seems that, over at least a considerable portion of its range, this 

 species occurs in an adult condition throughout the year. 



The greenish color phase is more in evidence in the young than in 

 adults, but the Honey Island females are quite greenish, the Billy's 

 Island females similar, but to lesser degree. A medio-longitudinal 

 line of purplish or pinkish is indicated more or less distinctly in the 

 greater portion of the young. 



This marsh and swamp-loving species generally frequents tall 

 grasses and reeds in the situations preferred by it, but occasionally 

 has been taken (Wilmington) in high bushes on the edge of a gum 

 swamp. The wet spots in pine woods are much frequented by it. 



Individual Variability and Dimorphism in Schistocerca alutacea and 



obscura. 



The authors have in their hands a series of over five hundred 

 specimens belonging to these two species as understood by them. 

 The form for which Scudder used the name obscura*'* is well separated 



"Proc. Amer. Acad. Arit and Sci., XXXV, p. 465, (1899). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENl ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



from alutacea, except in the case of brown-phase females, regarding 

 which see below under obscura. The other species has been the 

 cause of considerable difference of opinion, two nam--, alutacea 

 Harris and ntbiginosa Scudder, the first based on striped individual-. 

 the other one on brown or reddish brown unstriped specimens, being 

 involved. The present author- have individually and collectively 

 expressed their opinion- regarding the specific identity of these 

 tonus. 66 and in the light of the present material we see no necessity 

 for changing, or in any way modifying, our former conclusions. 



In both species we find developed two color phases: one olivaceous 

 or deep wine color, having a medio-longitudinal yellow -tripe od the 

 head, pronotum and anal area of the tegmina, the other being of a 

 more or less uniform brown or red brown color without any distinct 

 medio-longitudinal line. Correlated with these color differences 

 we usually find readily perceived structural differences in both 

 obscura and alutacea, the striped phase typically having the pronotum 

 more tectate, more compressed and appreciably narrowing cephalad, 

 and the head narrower with the fastigium more produced. The 

 brownish phase typically has the pronotum less tectate, more robust 

 and less narrowing cephalad, while the head i- broader with the 

 fastigium blunted, broader and more declivent. The first "i these 

 form- in alutacea i- alutacea -.-.. the second is rubiginosa, regarding 

 the distinctness of which More ••typically these two Bpecies 



differ in color, structure and haunt-." Later the same author 

 modifies hi- fir-t statement, restricting it to New England material 68 

 follows: "It is very probable that some so-called species are but 

 form- of one which varies greatly in color and structure. In New 

 England the two form- known as alutacea and rubiginasa seem to 

 be constantly different structurallj though rubiginasa has a color- 

 variety resembling alutacea. Southward and westward the structural 

 gap between the two seems to be bridged, and both van much in 

 size, color, form, and proportions of parts." U we were called upon 

 to deal only with typical material, it would be an extremelj simple 

 matter to consider the two phases as species, but unfortunately a 

 very considerable portion of our series is not typical, but apparently, 

 and when carefully studied actually, intermediate not only m color 



but BO, more rarely, however, m structure and proportion-. The 



2 Ibid p 312, 1902 ; Pwx \- w> N 

 I'hii.v . 1907, p| I, 1907 



1 irnegie Inst. Wash., Publ 18, p 39, 1904 



I ■.,.!■-- Wash Publ 88, pp » I »» 1907 



1 1 




L98 PROCEEDINGS 01 [HE \< \i>kmy OF \pril. 



yellow line narrows and finally dies out, the fastigium broadens ou1 

 and the pronotum and head become more robusl toward the "rubir 

 ginosa" type in the intermediates in certain extensive series. We 

 have such series of alutacea from a number <>t" localities in New 

 Jersey, South Carolina and Georgia. The proportionate depth of 

 the caudal femora in general is greater in the rubiginosa type, I >ut 

 this is by no means an absolute rule, as some series of thai phase 

 "di<>w all sorts of variation in this respect. The "alutacea" phase, 

 however, is more uniform in having the femora more slender. The 

 number of -cute- in the paginal pattern on the caudal femora also 

 varies greatly and without phase correlation. 



We have examined a number of New England specimens of 

 "alutacea" and "rubiginosa' 'determined by Morse, and the remarks 

 lie has made about their difference- hold true, hut when material 

 from N<\\ Jersey southward is considered the inter-relation of the 

 two form- becomes so complicated that they cannot he separated 

 when large -cries are considered. 



Taking up the question from the standpoint of habitat, it is true 

 that as a rule the striped types prefer moist areas with bracken, etc., 

 while the brown form.- are more at home in dry woods and brush, 

 old fields and among dune thickets, although numerous specimens 

 of each phase have been taken in the habitat preferred by the other. 

 It is highly probable that the near future will show similar environ- 

 mental preferences by other forms of this genus now considered of 

 specific rank, but doubtless of no more standing relatively than the 

 phases of obscura and alutacea. Sufficient field observations have 

 been made, outside of those in the eastern United States, to convince 

 us that in the genus Schistocerca color per se is, as a rule, a poor 

 specific criterion, while sufficient laboratory experience has been 

 had to convince us equally well that, in this genus, certain structural 

 feature- are quite plastic, and in consequence to be used with caution 

 and discrimination in diagnostic work. 



The principle of dimorphism, which plays such an important part 

 in the Orthoptera, satisfactorily explains to us the problem here 

 considered. In the presenl cases the color differences are quite 

 decided, with a fair number of non-typical specimens nearer one 

 type than the other and a relatively smaller number really interme- 

 diate. The structural differences, generally correlated with the 

 color difference-, are typically quite appreciable, but their constancy 

 fluctuate- in different localities. Color dimorphism is known to 

 exist in certain genera not distantly related to Schistocerca and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L99 



structural dimorphism, aside from the subject of macropterism and 

 brachypterism, is found in certain Dermaptera and in the I hthoptera 

 in certain groups of Phasmidse, very frequently in the Acrydiinae, 

 in certain Truxalinae (Eritettix, MacneiUia, etc.) and in species of 

 Gryllus. 



The final word on this very perplexing question ran be said only 

 after careful breeding experiments have been made. As far as 

 examination of dry material and field observations are concerned, 

 we fed that little additional information, except purely statistical 

 data, can be secured. We have had this problem in mind for over 

 ten years and have utilized every opportunity to secure data bearing 

 upon it. with the results here summarized. 



Schistocerca obscura (Fabrieius). 



Delaware. Ortega, Duval County, IX. 6, 1913, 



Dover, Macomber), 1 9, [A. N.S. P.]. u T 1, - tVI ~ . 1°- 



North Carolina. '"'■ 



Wrightsville, IX, 7. L911, H. & II , Thompson's Mills, X, L909, 11. A. 



5 ' Allard ,19, [U. S. \. M 



o ,, .. , Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, K a II . I . 



,w .,.", 7\ n > • AllK.Mv.V.ll.,.!,,:, i; & H.) '] 

 Florence, I\, 6, 1911, H. >v H. . 2 o\ 



• • ■ „ Savannah, VIII, 7. L878, Grote), 1 9; 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, R . VIII, 22. 1881. Howard), 19, 



I '■ both i - \ M 



Florida. Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1913, R & II . 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, R. >v 2 '. I 



II . l . Sandfly, IX. 3, 1911, (R. & H.), U 

 South Jacksonville, IX, 7 and 28, 1913, Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



\\ T Davis . l -, 1 9. i; a II . :, ■. 11 9. 



The different form of the subgenital plate of the male is a constant 

 and readily perceived diagnostic character for this species when 

 compared with alutacea, to which it is closely related. The presence 

 of dark bars on the dorsal surface of the caudal femora, and the 

 genera] dark purplish or blackish color of the caudal tibiae, we find 

 to he variable, the former, however, being generally distinctly 

 indicated in striped specimens of both sexes of 'In- species and 

 frequently absenl or very taint in brownish individuals. In conse- 

 quence brown females, having the femora without dark bars on the 

 dorsal surface, are with difficulty separated from similarly colored 

 female- of alutacea, the greater size of obscura being the besl means 

 of discrimination in Buch cases, as no constanl differential structural 



t, BS far a- we can determine. We have befon US one 



striped male from Wrightsville, North Carolina, which ha- the usual 

 femoral l>ar- practically absent, while of the "rubiginosa " type we have 




200 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHE ICADEM1 01 [April, 



four females of which bul two have distinct indications of these bars, 

 which are entirely absenl in one (Tybee [sland). The color of the 



caudal tibiae varies in the extent to which olivaceous green replaces 

 part of the blackish purple, in the "ruinginosa" specimens warm 

 browns replacing the olivaceous green. All of the Wrightsville 

 series is striped, as is the ease with the material from Florence, 

 Ashley Junction, Augusta, Albany, Sandfly, Atlantic Beach, South 

 Jacksonville and Ortega; the series from Tybee [sland includes one 

 brownish female and thai from Cumberland three brown females 

 The latter all have the tegmina more or less distinctly multi-maculate 

 with fuscous, while the similar phase female from Tybee Island is 

 almost entirely plain. 



The structural differences between the color phases follow the 

 lines discussed in the preceding summary, while the extremes in 



size in the two sexes measure as follows: 



Length of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. ' femur. 



<? Detroit, Fla 33.4 mm. 7.5 mm. 30.5 mm. 20.4 mm. 



o" Key Largo, Fla 42. " 8.8 " 37.5 " 22.1 " 



9 Tvhcc Island, Ca 49.5 " 10.2 " 44. " 27.8 " 



9 Tybee Island, Ga 61.3 " 12.9 " 49.3 " 32. 



It will be seen from this that such size variation as is found can 

 be considered purely individual and not geographic. All of the 

 measured specimens are in the extreme striped condition, except 

 the maximum male, w r hich has the stripe stopping at the caudal 

 margin of the pronotum and the general color quite brownish. 



The range of this striking species in the southeastern States is 

 chiefly confined to the country below the fall line, i.e., the sands and 

 gravels of the coastal plain and peninsular Florida, as it is apparently 

 rare and local in the Piedmont region (Thompson's Mills, Georgia, 

 and Druid Hill Park, Baltimore, Maryland). 



On Tybee and Cumberland Islands and at Wrightsville the species 

 was found among strand bushes and the low oaks, palmettoes, etc., 

 there growing; at Florence, Augusta and Albany it frequented high 

 weeds in or near fields, generally of cotton, and at Ashley Junction 

 it occurred in long-leaf pine woods. It was common only occa- 

 sionally, being generally but few in number and very frequently 

 associated with dhttacea. 



Bchistocerca alutacea (Harris). 



North Carolina. Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & II 



Weldon. VII. 21. 1913, U. &H.), 1 o". 10 cf, 8 9 . 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 8 <?, 19. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



South Carolina. [ale of Hope, IX. 3, 1911, R. & H . 



Columbia VII, 28, 1913, R.4 H,, g^d^LX, 3 , 1911, R. A B ,8 '. 

 Me of Palms, VIII. 15, 1913, (R.), s , ' V,,,,^ I>!aIlil , vm . ..„ ,,, u . 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, R . ,, ,; * ',' { ],;" v ,,, ,,,, , ,, , 

 15 &, 109, 1 juv. ■ Branswick, VIII, 30, 1911, II 8 . 



V 7; :i "'7- 1X - k 1 '' 11 ' R * " ' Jesup,' IX 1,1911, R.&B ,5 



' " Groveland, Cannoche River, VII, 28, 



Florida. 1913, .1. C. BraoUey), 1 



Jacksonville, Priddey; Ashmead . 2 Billy's Island. VI-VII, L912, IX. 1-5, 



; Bebard Chi.]; XI. 5, 1911, 1913, (J. C. Bradley . 10 ', 6 i . 



W. 'I'. Davis .1 '; VIII, 25, 1911, - " 1V - '• '-' j»v. 9. , 



I; & |( .-, ■ j5_ .Ionian-. Billy's Island, \II1. 31, 



Atlantic Beach, 'VIII, 24-25, 1911, l913 < J- C. Bradley), 3 



R i\r II 28 27 Suwannee Creek, X 111. _'s. 1911, 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, R. & H. . 1; * " • i: ' - 



1 ^ Bomerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H . 



.. 



'"'""'"■ Albany, VIII, I. 1913, 1: & II Jcf, 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, I: All .19. 

 Tybee Island, IX. _'. 1911, R. & H . Spring Creek, \ II. L6 -".'. 1912, .1. v. 



2 ' Bradley), 8 f, 7 9.1 ju> 



Regarding this species, it seems most desirable to give under 

 localities a summary of the color conditions, a- well a- the principal 

 uncorrelated variational features, found in the adults of this extensive 

 series. We have restricted ourselves t.. those features which bear 

 upon 'In- supposed distinctness "i ahdacea and rvbiginosa. 



Weldon. One, rvbiginosa phase. 



Wilmington. Seven, alutaoea phase. Two, rvbiginosa phase. 

 .Mali'-. Considerable variation in head width in six ahdacea phase, 

 this feature not typical in most, .in.' specimen has head as wide as 

 similarly ~i/'<l or even larger rvbiginosa phase males. Frontal 

 costs width not typical in all striped specimens. 



Winter Park. Eighteen, all rvbiginosa phase. Frontal costs and 

 la-ad width very variable, a- much a- the extremes of the two pi. 

 < toe female ha- bead ami pronotum width typical of alutacea phase, 

 Imt frontal costs and caudal femora typical of rvbiginosa phase. 



• lolumbia. ( toe, rvbiginosa pin- 



[sleof I 'ah ii-. Two. rvbiginosa phase, hut with head and pronotum 

 decidedly ( -:" I or weakly I ? > Btriped. 



Ashley Junction. Twenty-three, alutacea phase. Three, showing 

 rvbiginosa tendencies. Two. rvbiginosa ph 



Vemassee. Eleven, alutacea phase. Two. practically intermediate 

 m color. Bight, rvbiginosa phase; the males six -now considerable 



variation in head width, fastigium ami frontal COSta width and 



depth of caudal femora. 




202 PROCEEDINGS 01 CHE U \i>i:\n OF [April, 



Augusta, ''iif. intermediate in color and structure. 



Tvlx-r [aland. Two, rubiginosa phase. 



[si "i Hope. One, alutacea phase. Three, intermediate in color. 

 ! r f rubiginosa phase. The males (six) sho^ n<» other structural 

 intermediates, but specimens intermediate in color have deep femora. 



Sandfly. Five, alutacea phase. Four, rubiginosa phase. 



Brunswick. Eleven, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea phase. 



.1. -up Seven, rubiginosa phase. Four, alutacea phase. Males 

 -how little, and then connected, difference in fastigial width; costal 

 width variation very considerable, bul connected. 



Groveland. One, rubiginosa phase. 



Billy's Island. Fourteen, rubiginosa phase. < >ne, intermediate. 

 < Mir. alutacea type. 



Jordan'-. Four, rubiginosa phase. * >ne, alutacea phase. 



Suwannee Creek. Eighteen, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea 

 phase. The latter ( cf ) has the frontal costs no narrower than in 

 numerous decided rubiginosa phase individuals. 



Homerville. Five, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea phase. Struc- 

 tural differences in fastigium in these but little and connected, ex- 

 tremes decided, as in the case of femoral depth. 



Albany. Four, alutacea phase. One, rubiginosa phase. Males 

 three) all alutacea, one has frontal costa typical, others have this 

 very much broader. 



Spring ('reek. Fifteen, rubiginosa phase. 



Jacksonville. Eleven, rubiginosa phase. Four, alutacea phase. 

 Those collected by ourselves (seven rubiginosa, two alutacea) show no 

 marked structural differences in fastigium in striped and unicolorou- 

 individual-. Head width little variable and apparently with extremes 

 connected. Femoral depth difference appreciable. 



Atlantic Beach. Thirty-two, rubiginosa phase. Two, inter- 

 mediate (maculate tegmina type). Twenty-one, alutacea phase. 

 Specimens of alutacea phase have the frontal costa of usual rubiginosa 

 width. 



Live Oak. One, alutacea phase. 



We also have before us from New Jersey alone, one hundred and 

 twenty-eight specimens collected in southern New Jersey by Dr. 

 Henry Fox,' a series of twenty-two from Stafford's Forge with exact 

 habitat data, another of twelve from Taunton and a considerable 



m Recorded by that author as "S. alutacea (Typical race); S. rubiginosa 

 (= rubiginosa phase of alutacea), :m<l S. sp. cf. obscura I = unicolorous phase of 

 obscum '." Pboc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Piui.a., I'.U 1. pp. 507-609, (1914). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



number from the State .secured by various collectors at numerous 

 localities. These all bear out our above-expressed general conclu- 

 sions. The Taunton series form a particularly interesting illustra- 

 tion of intergradation, which i- also marked in the other lots where 

 the -cries are of sufficient size. The only exception to the latter 

 statement seems to be that the ahttacea phase is very rare on the 

 barrier beach coastal dunes, as we have seen but one individual (9) 

 of that phase which was taken in a strand habital (Seaside Park, 

 New Jersey). The Isle of Palms individuals also show a tendency 

 toward alutacea in the indication of an incomplete stripe. 



We have examined a -eric- of Key West, Florida, individuals of 

 both sexes, all being rubiijinosa phase, and these -how great variation 



in the width of the head. 



The generally greater size of the individuals from the barrier 

 !ie< of New Jersey and longer tegmina of the same, when com- 

 pared with material from the interior pine-land of the state, a point 

 to which we have already called attention. 7 ' loses some of its 

 apparent significance when the large series from that State now 

 available are considered. The tegmina! length is now known to be 

 individually variable in both the pine-land and beach specimens. 

 Southward the difference between the rtrand and more interior 

 materia] is less pronounced than in New Jersey, although the largest 

 individuals from a general region are, as a rule, from the beaches. 

 This ia not invariable, as Winter Park, North Carolina; Yemassee, 

 South Carolina; Isle of Hope and Brunswick, Georgia, and Jackson- 

 ville, Florida, all localities removed from the strand proper, are 

 represented by very large individuals. The Isle of Palms specimens, 

 which are from typical strand situations, an- of but average -i/e. 



Measurements 'in millimeter- of extremes of the series here 



examined are as follow 



Pnoc. a. w, N M & i I'mi L90? 




204 PBO( EBDING8 01 l BE \< LDEM1 01 [April 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotura. tegmen. femur. 



• \- lanti Beach, Fla. 



{rubiginosa 8 5 32 8 20 6 



9 Winter Park, Nf. C 



rubiginot 46 5 1" 35 22 3 



- indfly, Ga. 

 (alutacea) 17 2 9.2 35.6 23. 



9 Live Oak. Fla. 



{alutacea) 15. B 3 34.5 2] .9 



9 Yemassee, S ' 



biqinosa 50.6 11.2 40.3 25.9 



9 Atlantic Beach, Fla. 



{rvBiginoaa 60.8 (abdomen 11.3 41.8 26.8 



9 Atlantic Beach, Fla. distended) 



{rubiginosa) 56. 11.1 13.8 25 8 



The Atlantic Beach and Jacksonville series average large, the 



Ashley Junction scries shows widely different extremes in size, bill 

 the average is medium, while the Yemassee, Winter Park, Wilming- 

 ton and Brunswick representations are very variable individually 

 in this respect. The Billy's Island specimens average large hut 

 vary greatly, particularly in the male sex. The Albany specimen 

 is average, while the two Tybee individuals (cf ) are very large. 



In the southeastern States the range of this species does not extend 

 above the fall line except where the insect has penetrated a short 

 distance up a broad river valley or, in the western part of the States, 

 has pushed in from the Mississippi valley drainage by way of the 

 Tennessee valley. 



The species was taken in a variety of habitats: in hammock and in 

 marsh about edge of same (Atlantic Beach), also in pine woods at 

 the same locality; in pine woods, both long- and short-leaf, (Jackson- 

 ville. Sandfly, Isle of Hope, Yemassee, Winter Park, Weldon, Ashley 

 Junction and Albany); along the edge of short-leaf pine wood- 

 (Columbia); in marshy land on the edge of hammock (Homerville) ; 

 in high bushes and "bracken" along edge of swamp (Suwannee 

 Creek); in tidal marsh (Tybee Island); in high bushes on edge of 

 swampy depression filled with gums (Wilmington); in high bushes 

 along drain near pine woods (Augusta) and from dune vegetation, i.e., 

 bayberrv. oak, briars and palmetto (Isle of Palms). By comparison 

 of these data with the information given above on the phases in each 

 series, evidence concerning the habitat association of the color forms 

 can be obtained. 



Schistoctrca serialis (Thunberg)." 



Sckittocerca americana of author-. 



71 This name has already been discussed by Hebard, Ent. News, XXVI, p. 106, 

 (1915 




i9ib. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



205 



Virginia. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, L913, R. & II . 



1 <?■ 



Petersburg. VII. 23, 1913, H. & B. . 



2 <?. 



North Carolina. 

 Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, (R. & B. . 



! - 

 Winter Park, IX. 7. L911, R. & II . 



1 r' 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, (R. & II . 



1 o*. 



.//' Carolina. 



Florence. IX. 6, L911, R. & II. >, 1 o*. 

 Manniim. V, 27 and 30, 191 1. W 



Stone . 2 ', 19, [A. X. S. P , 

 [ale of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX. I. 1911, R. & H.),4 <?. 



gia. 



Clayton, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, 1909, 

 W T. Davis), I 



Thompson's Mills, spring, II. A. 



Allard), 1 i . £U. S. X. M 

 Buckhead,VIII,2, 1913, (R.&"B.),ld". 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & II , 



1 ', 3 juv. 9. 

 Albany, VIII, 1. 1913, R & II . 1 9. 

 Billy's Island, V, 16, 1915, II . 1 d"; 



VI, 12, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 3 <?. 

 Jesup, IX. 1. 1911, H. & H .19. 

 Isle of Hope, IX. :;. 1911, R. cV- B.), 



1 d\ 

 Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 \2 9. 

 Savannah, VIII. 7. 1878, Grote), 



1 . [U. S. X. M.]. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 6\ 



2 . . [Hebard Cln.]; IX. 3, 1911 

 \\ I Davis), 1 9. 



South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, (W. T 

 Davis). 1 ^.19. 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 

 II . 19. 



Drury, in 177.'), described and figured this species as TJbell[ula\ 

 arm ricanus; HI. Nat. Hist., I, p. 128, PI. XLIX, fig. 2, name in index. 

 This is preoccupied by L/ibeUula americana of Linnseus; Syst. Nat., ed. 

 \. p. .")45, (1758). The uexl uame to apply i«» 1 Irury's /.. <""< ricanus is 

 GryUus serialis >>\ Thunberg; M4m. Acad. Imp. Sri. St. P6tersbourg, 

 V, p. I'll. (1815); described from St. Bartholomew, British Wes1 

 Indie-, which uame consequently musl I"' used for this Bpecies. 



The present series shows considerable variation in size and -nine 

 m color, but both features an- individual in this material. The 

 three immature females from Macon are in different instars, the 

 most developed having just started the ecdysis passing into the 

 imagal condition. The species was also seen but aot taken at 

 < >r:uiL r '-. Virginia, July 21 . L913. 



This ubiquitous species occurred in a variety of habitats, more 

 rally, however, in pine woods. At no point visited by us wa- 

 it present in sufficient numbers to be an economic menace. 



Bchistocerca damnifica damniflca 



'I, Carolina. 



1/ yland. 

 Greal Palls, II. 26. 1906, II Barber), 



l •. i .8 \ M 

 U aahington, D, C, IX, 1883, 1 ', 



Bebard Cln 



Olencarlyn, \ . 6, 1903 \ N ( ludell . 



1 •. I > \ M 

 Virginia Beach, X I. 1907, Bopkine . 



I . . i S N M 



Tryon, IV, 29, Fiake), i 9. [U. S. 

 M 



<;■ or gia. 



Clayton 2,000 feet, V 18 26, 191 1 



i < Bradlej , I 

 Gainesville, W . -'. 1911, J C Bradley . 



1 - 




206 



PRO< I I DINGS OF I 111 \> \l>l.\n OF 



[April, 



The Clayton male is Bimilar to the Gainesville and Atlanta speci- 

 mens already commented upon by us.' 



Sehiitocerca damnifica oalidior Rehn and Hebard 



\ orth ( 'until tat. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, R. & II . 



19. 

 Wilmington, IX. B, L911. (R. & II . 



1 V 



Winter Park, IX. 7. 1911, iK. &B 



South Carolina. 

 Florence, IX. 6, L911, (R. & H , 1 <?. 



Manning, V, •_•:;. I'M I. W. Stone), 



i ". ; \. X. s. p.]. 

 Yemaasee, IX, i. L911, (R. & II.), 7 cf, 

 49. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IV and VIII, 1885, 



W. II. Ashmead), 2 9, [Hebard 



viii. i>:,. mil. -It. .v II. . 



Id 1 ; XI, :;. 1911, (W. 'I'. Davis), 



2 -.19. 



- ith Jacksonville, I X, 7 and 28. 1913, 



W. T. Davis), 2 cf, 19. 

 Fort ( iconic. Duval County. 1 cf, 



[l\ s. X. M.]. 

 Atlantic Beach. VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



II . 19. 

 Live <)ak. VIII. 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 

 X. wherry, XI, 19. 1911, (\V. T. Davis . 



1 cf. 

 Archer, III, 1882, 1 cf, 19. [Hebard 



can.]. 



Daytona, XI. 11. L911. 1 rf", 1 9, 



[U.S. X. M.|. 

 Rockledge, II, 5, 1880, 1 v. [U. S 



X. M.j. 



(,< orgia. 

 Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, (R. a II 



1 cf . 

 Isle of Hope, IX, :;. mil. (R, & II . 



1 •■ 

 Sandfly, IX. 3, L911, (R. a li i, 2 cf. 

 St. Catharine's Island, XI, ls7s, 



(Grote), 1 cf, 1 9, [I". S. N. M.j. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, ■".(). 1911, 



iR. & Il.t, 3 cy; IV, 22-V, 12, I'M 1. 



(J. ('. Bradley), 1 9. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 juv. cf • 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & II. i. 1 cf. 

 Jesup, IX. 1. 1911, <ll. & II.), 2 cf. 



29; XII, 1906, (H.), 2 cf, 19. 

 Mixon'e Ham ck, Okeefenokee 



Swamp, V, Hi. 1915, (H.), 1 9. 

 Milk's Island, V, 2N-VI, 2, VII, 1912, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 9. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 1 cf . 

 De Witt, IV, 23, 1912, 19, [Ga. 



State Can.]. 

 Bainhridge, IX, 17-X, 19, 1910, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 cf . 



The majority of the above records have been quoted as bare 

 localities under the description of the race. 73 



A- previously stated, material from Raleigh, North Carolina, and 

 Atlanta, Georgia, is true damnifica with a tendency toward d. calidior, 

 while individuals from the region about Wilmington and Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, and Florence, South Carolina, while representing d. 

 calidior, show decided tendencies toward the northern form. Speci- 

 mens from Chester and Albany, Georgia, are not fully typical of 

 calidior, although decidedly nearer it than d. damnifica. 



From the evidence in hand, this species, both typical and the race 

 calidior, occurs two-brooded throughout the greater portion of its 

 range, as material before us from New Jersey localities extends 

 in dates from April to mid-November, while we have it taken every 

 month in the year in southern Georgia. The material from Fayette- 



T2 Proc. Acau. Nat. 8ci. Phila., 1912, pp. 261,262, (1912). 

 n Pboc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 261,262, (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



ville, North Carolina, taken September 9, was recorded in ou'r field 

 notes as recently moulted, while the single specimen taken at Bruns- 

 wick, Georgia, on Augusl 30, is qo1 quite mature. 



The species occurred in pine woods among the wire-grass and 

 other dry carpeting vegetation (Jacksonville and Live Oak), in 

 mixed oak and pine woods Winter Park), oil sandy knolls and 

 slopes with scattered pines and low oaks (Yemassee), in brushy 

 clearings (Suwannee ('reek and in palmetto flats (Brunswick). 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus Scudder. 



Georgia. Chase Prairie. Okeefenokee Swamp. 



Jesup, IX. l. 1911, (R. & II . 6 « P^> •"'■ l91 ?> ■' r Bradley . I 



2ju V . •, ;; [ U v . J > ° < Billy » a [s i andi V1 l912| (j. c. Brad- 



Brunswick, \ III. 30, 1011, II . 6 d\ Ir > • ' "• 1? - 



Florida. 

 1| - , '. ; ", h i ;^' N ' '•"• l915 > "•• ■ !«▼■ Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H . 



' [ #-™J f>. l91 J> Atlantic* Belch, VIII, 24, 1911, B. A 



HomSviJe, VIII, 27, 1913, B &H . "vejOak, VIII, 26, 1911, (B A II 



,,;;•'' "" ■ '-• - J'"-°> H.),3d-,8 



imerville, Mil. 27, 1913, (R. & 

 2 juv. ', 3 juv. 9. 



The female specimens from Atlantic Beach are exceptionally 

 large, the series from thai locality measures in length as follow-: 

 male-, it. to 14.8 mm., females, 20.2 to 22.6 mm. The res! of the 

 very large series here recorded shows no unusual variation in size 

 or other characters. In length the males measure from 12.5 to 16. 

 mm., females from 17. 3 to 19.4 mm. 



The larger series listed above were captured by beating, and with 

 little difficulty, as in southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida 

 the species i- frequently exceedingly plentiful, locally in the heavier 

 undergrowth of the Long-leaf pine forests (Jesup, Bebardville, 

 Jacksonville), in like surroundings everywhere where the ground is 

 very low (Suwannee ('reek, Bomerville). It was also found fairly 

 abundant in wire-grass ami other low plants on palmetto flats (Bruns- 

 wick 



The known northern boundaries of the present species are con- 

 siderably extended by the above record-: in Florida it is known 

 from as far south as Lakeland and as far west as De Funiak Springs. 



Campylacantha olivacea Si udder. 



Macon, Georgia, \ II. 31, 1913, R 4 H.), ] '. 1 1 juv '. il jin 



The previous most eastern records for this species are Fayetteville 



and Van Buren, in northwestern Arkansas. The intrusion of tin- 



niially Sonoran genus as far east as central < reorgia is of peculiar 



interest. The present species will probably be found at numerous 




208 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHI \< \!>KMY OF [April, 



localities between those given above, when the intervening territory 

 irefully investigated. 

 This insect was found occasional everywhere in the thick grasses 

 and weed- along the edge of the woods at the Idle Hour Club, a few 

 miles outside of Macon. Vigorous and long-continued search for 

 adults resulted in the taking of a single mature male, still soft from 

 its last moult, and a considerable -cries of immature example-. 



These latter could lie readily distinguished from other Locustid 

 young by their striking whitish antenna' annulate with dark brown; 

 these colors have greatly faded in the dried specimens. 



Eotettix signatus Soudder. 



Jacksonville, Florida, VHP 25, 1911, K & II.), 1 d\ 

 Atlantic Beach, Fla., \ III. 24, 1911, (R. & II.;, 12 <?, 10 9. 

 Pablo Beach, Fla., IX, 5, 1913, W. T. Davis . I d\ 



The specimens recorded above from Atlantic Beach are very large, 

 their length measuring as follows: males, 18.8 to 21.4 mm.; females. 

 27. to 30.6 nun. Specimens of this species from southern Florida 

 -how that an extreme reduction in size southward is to be found in 

 this insect. 74 



The species was found at Atlantic Beach to be moderately numerous 

 in marshy land on the edge of a "hammock," where high saw-grass 

 and reeds mingled with much low green marsh vegetation and occa- 

 sional cypress shoots. It is known from the above localities south- 

 ward to Lakeland and Homestead, Florida. 



Eotettix pusillus Morse. 



North Carolina. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 cr, 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (H.), 2 *. ^ * &£ VII-VIII, 1912-13, 



Oh < 'arolina. TT (J- c - Bradley), 2 <? 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florence. IX. 6, 1911, (H.), 19. ^'^ 1915 ' ™« 2 *' 



Yetnaesee IX. I, 1911, <H.), 1 <?, 19, Homer^Ue,' VlTl, 27, 1911, (H.), 



~ ;,n - * " ,. • 1 cf. 



( ■""''■""■ Florida. 



WarmSprings, 1000 feet, VIII, 9-10, Live 0flk vm 2f 19n (R & H) 

 1913, (K.), 1 cT. 1 cT, 19. 



The present singularly striking insect is distinguished b}' its 

 compact and abbreviate form, with short pronotum, the dorsum of 

 which i- distinctly convex in longitudinal aspect, and by its dis- 

 tinctive coloration; this latter is due to a peculiar metallic sheen 

 which suffuses the entire insect and is particularly striking in life. 



All of the immature specimens before us have the median carina 



"See Rehn urul Hebard, Pboc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 396, (1914). 




1916.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



of the dorsum of the pronotum more .strongly raised and arcuate 

 than in the adults. 



The immature examples before us range in size from a very early 

 stage of development to the instar preceding maturity. These 

 specimens arc very singularly colored, being blackish overlaid with 

 mars orange, the latter color forming a pale -tripe on the post-ocular 

 portion of the head and strongly indicated over the face and the 

 constricted distal portion of the caudal femora. One of these 

 specimens, which has apparently besl retained it- coloration, has 

 the face nopal red. In life these specimens have a striking metallic, 

 velvety lustre, which in the dried examples is still weakly indicated. 



A very slight increase in size southward in individuals of the 

 species is shown by the present series. Female- from Fayetteville 

 are among the smallest before us (length 15.5 to 10. mm.), while the 

 specimen of that sex from Live I >ak i- the largesl (length 20. mm. . 

 In the series from Spring (reek the female is rather large, but the 

 male- are as small as any in the present series (length 10. to 11. mm. >. 

 The majority of specimens of this specie- have the abdomen decidedly 

 upcurved, which make- the measurement for tin insects shorter 

 than would otherwise be the case. 



We have noticed that this species is rather sluggish in it- actions 

 and was found to cling tenaciously to the stem- of wire-grass, for 

 which plant it showed a decided preference. The species was found 



in this wire-grass in short-leaf pine and oak wood- Fayetteville, 



Florence. Yemassee, Warm Springs), and in the same plant in moisl 

 but not swampy places in long-leaf pine wood- Albany, Hebardville, 

 Homerville, Five Oak), at the latter locality being found also in 

 wire-grass and oak -prom- on the sides of a -ink which apparently had 

 been recently deforested. The six specimens taken at Fayetteville, 

 after long and diligent search in a restricted area, constitute the 



only series from :t single locality we have yet been able to -ecmv 



of this rare insect, which was previously known only from Denmark, 

 Smith Carolina, and Waycross and Thomasville, Georgia. It i- in- 

 teresting to note that it- range is not confined to the coastal plain 



and that it ha- not been found within the range of E. signatut. 

 Heiperotettix florideniii M 



/"/ Suv. ■ • ■ ' re.-k. V|||. 28, I'M I . 



AUgUflta, VII. _•'. I'M.. R A II I! .\ II . I • I . 



, • | , | . Homerville, \ III 27 1911 I: I < 



Warm Springs, \ III 9, 1913, R 19. 



The pre-ent Mi-ect is much more nearly relate,! to //. BpecioSUt 




210 PROCEEDINGS "l Mil: \< UDEM1 01 [April. 



than to any other species of the genus, the tnosi striking difference 

 in thi< insect being the abbreviate, rotundate tegmina. 



Little variation is shown by the above series of this very rare 

 insect. In coloration the adult- from Augusta and Warm Springs 

 r from the others in having the median carina of the pronotum 

 outlined in pompeian red. 



This species acts in an unusual manner when pursued, hiding on 

 the underside of the leaves Of small plant-, with only feet, antenna' 



and eyes showing from above. It was taken among low plant-. 

 huckleberry, strawberry and many other varieties, in a sandy scrub- 

 oak area just above the fall line (Augusta), in heavy tangled under- 

 growth of pine and oak woods (Warm Springs), on low open land 

 Covered with wire-grass and many low bushes and -aw palmetto. - 

 on the edge of high bushes and bracken along the border of the 

 Okeefenokee Swamp (Suwannee Creek) and in a very similar situa- 

 tion to the la-t, where, however, a heather-like plant, Kalinin hirsuta, 

 wa- predominant (Homerville). The discovery of this insect just 

 above the fall line at Augusta and on the Piedmont plateau at Warm 

 Springs wa- rather surprising, a- it was hitherto known only from 

 Waycross, I }eorgia,and Pablo Beach, San Pablo and Hastings, Florida. 



Hesperotettix brevipennis brevipennis (Thomas). 



Arlington, Virginia, VII, '.», L914, H.: asleep al night in Andropogon sp.), 19. 

 Currahee Mountain, Georgia, 1,200 to 1,700 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (H.), 5 <?, 4 9. 



Occasional specimens of this species were found from the edge 

 of the pine woods on the upper portion of the lower gradual slopes 

 of Currahee Mountain, to its summit. The specimens were taken 

 in l>unch-gras<. Cyperus sp., particularly where this was plentiful on 

 open slopes, and in the luxuriant mountain undergrowth of grasses, 

 vine- and oak sprouts, under a low forest, predominant in black-jack 

 oak. 



In the southeastern I nited State- this species was previously known 

 only from Sand Mountain, Georgia, and Lookout and Chehawhaw 

 Mountain and it- vicinity in Alabama. 



Hesperotettix brevipennis pratensis 



live <>.,k. Florida. VIII, 26, 1911, R. & H.), 1 cT, 3 9. 



It seems impossible to consider this insect other than a western 

 _ graphic race of //. brevipennis. Material from the type locality. 

 Dalla-. Texas, -how- hardly any structural differences outside of wring 

 length, and the present -eric- i- nearly intermediate between such 

 specimens and typical bn <</>< nnis. Such intermediate- were found and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



so recorded by Morse from Magazine Mountain. Arkansas. 71 The 

 tegminal length of the present series of intermediates is as follows: 

 male. 12.: females, 12.5 to 12.7 nun. Fm- the series of //. brevipi ■ 

 s,s. from Currahee Mountain, Georgia, the tegminal Length is: males, 

 8.4 to 9.8; females, 10 to L1.3 nun. 



The present insect is known to be distributed eastward along the 

 Gulf Coast as far as Live Oak. Florida, though from the country inter- 

 vening between coast and mountains in Georgia and Alabama the 

 species has not been recorded, while in the southern mountains 

 typical H. &r< is found to intergrade with the presenl race 



far to the westward of this longitude. The very local nature of its 

 distribution, and the scarcity of the species in the east, creates 

 considerable difficulty when efforts to define it- exact range are 

 made. One of the specimens recorded above was taken on sandy 

 soil among wire-grass and other low plants, the three others were 

 found in a somewhat similar environment, but in small clump* 

 oak- about two feet in height od the border of a -ink. 



Paratylotropidia beutenmuelleri Moi 



We have before us two topotypic females of this remarkable insect, 

 taken by W. Beutenmuller near Black Mountain. North Carolina, 

 July, 1912. These specimens are in the Davis Collection and that of 



the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Th> Gracilis Group of tfo Genus Melanoplus. 



We find that .1/. gracilis, sylvaticus, similis, viridipes and deceptus 



form a group in the presenl genus which may be termed the Gracilis 



Group, the species in relation-hip following the order given above, 



of which gracilis is more widely separated from the other- than thej 



are from each other. 



- idder's placing of gracilis in his Plebejus Series and viridipes in 

 In- Inornatu- Series i- wholly illogical. 



Melanoplus similis M 



Bluemont, Virginia, VII, 1, 1914, -l l> Rabun Bald, Rabun County, Ga., VI] 

 Hood ,19, Heb L910, w T. Davu . I 



Clayton, Rabun County, Georgia, \ I. Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun Count} 

 L909 U I DavU I I VI, 1909, U T. Davis 



The present specimens agree very well with Morse's description, 

 the cerci are slightly more slender than in the drawing given by thai 

 author. Oni of the females taken on Tuckoluge Creek was found 

 in a bush. 



1 larnegie Inst. Wash . Publ No 68, p 15, 1907 



I larnegie [nsl U..-1. . Publ No 18, I 1904 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF mi \< IDEM1 OF [April, 



Melanoplui viridipei Boudder. 



L897. Melanoplus juvencua Scudder. 1 *r< >. \iiht, Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p it Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX, pp. L29, 266, PL XVIII, I'm I 

 [No locality for described type. n ] 



The above synonymy is due to a mosl unusual confusion of material. 

 Scudder. apparently by accident, placed a specimen of M. viridipei 

 without data in bis series of M. puer. Later, finding it bo be different 

 from that species, be had the specimen figured and described il u 



M.jtwencua. This specimen is qow in the Scudder collection, marked 

 Scudder's type M. jwencus and "drawn"; it has been selected as 



the single type, for it is the specimen which furnished the original 

 description and figure of jiwencus. It was accessary to select a 

 single type, for although, with the description Scudder figured and 

 described hut one specimen, he derived the data given there, "Fort 

 Reed, Orange County, Florida, April 8; Comstock,'' from another 

 male specimen of the type series of M. purr, which specimen he also 

 marked Scudder's type .1/. juvencus. His work was apparently 

 done carelessly and at different times, other explanation for such an 

 occurrence being incomprehensible. 



Melanoplus deoeptus Morse. 



Black Mountain, North Carolina, VI, Clayton, Rabun County, Georgia, VI, 

 1912, (W. BeutenmttUer), 2 d", 3 9, 1909, (W. T. Davis),' 1 d". 



[Davis On.]. 



The Decorus Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



Five species of this group are found in the Sabalian or Basic Austral 

 zone of the southeastern United States, which are all closely related 

 and are among the more formative elements of the plastic genus 

 Melanoplus. No intergradation between the forms is shown by the 

 material before us, but in every large series a certain slight amount 

 of variation often gives evidence of the derivation of the members 

 of the group. It is our opinion that five valid species exist in the 

 known material of the group and that no geographic races are 

 represented. 



Of these five species Scudder placed decorus in his Inornatus 

 Serie>. and attenuatus in his Fasciatus Series, both of which series 

 are anomalous aggregations of widely separated forms. The 

 senior author in describing hebardi placed it in the genus Eotettix, 

 since Scudder chiefly separated that genus from Melanoplus by the 

 male subgenital plate having a distinct subapical tubercle and the 

 pronotum having the median carina well developed and percurrent. 



"Tin- specimen has been fixed a- Bingle type l>v the present author-, Pao< 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. I'nn.\.. 1912, p. 84, (1912), 




1916.] NATL HAL SCIENI ES OF PHILADELPHIA. '21o 



These characters apply as well to the species of the Decorus Group 

 as they do to the genus Eotettix, which genus is, however, valid, as 

 it possosrs other excellent characters. Morse correctly placed 

 australis beside attenuatus, and the fifth species was hitherto unde- 

 scribed. .Morse state- that .1/. decoratus is closely related to M. 

 decorus and compares the two species in his original description; in 

 reality the two species belong to very distinct groups. 



The following analysis gives the important characters, found 

 principally in the male genitalia, of the presenl group. 



Important Color Characters. — The post-ocular fuscous -tripe is 

 usually strongly, sometimes weakly continued, bul always presenl 

 on the metazona in decorus, in the other species this -tripe stops 

 abruptly at the principal sulcus. In the male sex of australis it is 

 very infrequently interrupted od the prozona by narrow oblique 

 fascia? of the general color of the bisect, 78 this species is the only one 

 of the group which has the sides of the abdomen wholly immaculate. 



In nitbilus the male- have the dark marking on the side- of the 



abdomen very large and the dorsum of the abdomen very dark. 



Fun-ula.- (Figured for all the -peri,-. In decorus uormally 

 widely divergent, -lender, evenly tapering, acuminate and slightly 

 over one-third as long as supra-anal plate; in australis broad at base, 

 tapering to slender digitate tips which are due chiefly to an abrupt 

 mesa! shoulder on the inner margins, one-third as long as supra-anal 

 plate and weakly divergent; in attenuatus weakly divergent, -lender. 

 aly tapering, acuminate and scarcely one-fourth as long as 

 -upra-anal plate; in hebardi small knob-like plate- with divergent 

 angulate apices, scarcely one-fifth as long as -upra-anal plate: in 

 mil, tins usually subparallel, scarcely tapering but very slender 

 rs, less than one-third as long as the short -upra-anal plate. 



Supra-anal Plate. (Figured for all the species.) I" decorus and 

 australis elongate, shield-shaped with sides meso-distad evenly 

 convex, the narrow percurrent median sulcus lying between -harp 

 Kut not high wall- in the proximal portion of the plate, beyond 

 which are a pair of more distant, short, blunt ridges, which are evenly 

 convergent and almost join near the apex in <ltc<>rus and at the apex 

 <»f the- plate in austral lis, near the base of the plate on each margin 

 are very weak indications of a marginal plication. This plate 

 similar general structure in the other species, but shows the following 



ill- of a • ernipt ion almo.nl alv 



specimens it is ver) pronounced, leaving onb iscoua band; -<>■ I 



interruption is also found in this -• \ ol U 

 15 




Jll PROCEEDINGS <>!■• THE ACADEM1 01 [April, 



Btriking difference: in attt nuatua no1 as long, with sides in more I han 

 distal half straight convergent, the distal ridges are weakly conver- 

 gent distad, while the marginal plications Dear the base of the plate 

 are developed into heavy, broadly rounded, dentate folds, which 

 are very striking; in hebardi the plate is elongate with side- in more 

 than distal half straight convergent, its surface very decidedly 

 flattened with median sulcus less pronounced and the distal con- 

 vergent ridges subobsolete, the marginal plications near the base 

 of the plate are. however, developed into heavy knobs no1 as decided 

 as in the preceding species, I >ut still prominent; in nubilus the plate 

 is decidedly shorter, with the distal ridges subparallel, the other 

 characters as given for the first two species of the group similar, but 

 all somewhat intensified. 



('inns. (Figured for all the species.) In decorus composed of a 

 moderately broad, rapidly tapering, slightly tumid basal portion, 

 about one-third of the whole, and a very slender, subequal, gently 

 arcuate, incurved and apically faintly expanding portion, hardly 

 more than a third as broad as the base, with apex slightly expand* d. 

 broadly rounded dorsad and slightly produced, more narrowly 

 rounded ventrad, reaching a little beyond the apex of the supra-anal 

 plate. In the other species the cerci are in general similar, but 

 differ in the following respects: in australis with apex very slightly 

 broader, spatulate, roundly symmetrical, sometimes very slightly 

 emarginate; in atlenuatus with apex a little more than half as broad 

 as base, expanding ventrad more than dorsad, the distal margin 

 distinctly emarginate mesad so that the apex appears faintly bifid, 

 reaching the tip of the supra-anal plate; in hebardi and nvbilus the 

 cercu- shows this latter condition and at the apex is weakly but 

 distinctly bifid, in hebardi the emargination of the distal margin 

 being ventral, the apex not quite reaching the apex of the supra-anal 

 plate. In miliihis this specialization is further continued in the 

 dorsal lobe of the apex of the cercus being apically flattened. 

 thus giving the apex of the cercus in this insect an almost trifid 

 appearance. 



Svbgenital Plate. — In all of the species small, greatly tapering so 

 as to be very narrow at the tip. In decorus the apex is strongly but 

 delicately tuberculate; the other species have the apical margin 

 well rounded and the plate faintly and broadly tuberculate sub- 

 apically. this tuberculation somewhat more decided in nubilus than 

 in any other of the latter species. 



We have not discussed the tegmina, for in every large series of 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



these species they arc found to vary in size, width, separation and 

 truncation, though always having their apices rounded. 



Melanoplus decorus Bcudder. PI. XIII, Ggs. l, 2. 



Wilmington, North Carolina, IX, 8, 1911, R. & B ,48 \179. 

 Winter Park, N. C., DC, 7, 1911, Et. & H ,20 -.12 9. 

 Lake Waccamaw, X. <'.. IX. 8, L911, II. & II . 26 \ - 



The large series before us shows do striking size or structural 

 variation, adhering closely to the characters given in the above 

 analysis. The four male- previously recorded by the author- from 

 Newbern, North Carolina, have the furcula somewhat broader in 

 varying degrees, and in two specimens considerably less divergent 

 than in the types or in the presenl -eric-; they are otherwise 

 perfectly typical. 



In coloration individual- range from empire yellow through all 

 -hade- dt' that color to medal bronze, the females showing more 

 variation than tin' males which are usually more brightly colored* 

 A very few melanistic female- are before us, in which specimens the 

 genera] coloration is bone brown much suffused with Mack. In all 

 of the specimens the post-ocular fuscous stripe i- present on the 

 metazona, it i- very pronounced in nearly all of the male-, bul in 

 some specimens of this sex and in numerous female- it i- much 

 weaker than on the prozona. The blackish coloration of the tubercle 

 of i| |( . subgenital plate of the male i- confined to it- dorsal surface. 

 In life the species is very brilliantly and strikingly colored, Inn, as 

 in the other species of this delicately colored group, the dried speci- 

 mens have the yellow tone- much faded and discolored in the majority 

 oi specimens. A greal similarity to the brilliantly colored indi- 

 viduals of Paroxya <iihniii<-<i from this region was noted. 



No great size variation i- found in the material before US, the 

 extremes in length being as follow-: male- 17. to 20., females 20.5 to 



25.3 mm. 



The species was found very locally distributed in low plant- and 

 scant grasses about .-i swampy depression in pine woods in which were 

 ;i few Mack gum trees Winter Park . in heavy undergrowth of almost 



swampy pine w Ls Lake \\ accamaw) and common in the wet mucky 



border of a swampy tract which was covered thickly with gra 

 plants, such as pitcher-plants and venus 1 fly-traps, and dotted with 

 low bushes Wilmington . 



< Kitside the above localities the species is known only from Pungo 

 Bluff and Newbern, North Carolina. 




216 PROCBBDINGa OP PHB \< \i>i.\n 01 [April, 



Melanoplus australis Morae. PL XIII. 6g». . , i. 



Yemassee, South Carolina, IX, I. 1911, R .v II 54 \69. 

 Sandfly, Georgia, IX, 3, 1911, R & II ,65 ". 139. 

 Isle of Hope, Ga I \ ,3 L91 1. R & II. . n \ I juv.9. 



The large series of the presenl species Bhows no striking structural 



variation. The insect is larger and more attenuate than M. decorua 

 and probably very similar to M. attenuatus in this respect. The 

 extremes in length in the presenl scries arc as follows: males L6. 1 to 

 'J2.. females 23. to 27. nun. The males average in length about L9. mm. 



In coloration individuals range from lemon chrome, frequently 

 suffused with greenish or orange, to army In-own. Usually showing 

 traces of a yellowish suffusion. The specie- is the most brilliantly 

 colored of the group, individuals in life being very striking. The 

 distinctive differences in color pattern are discussed in the ana' 

 of the group. 



It was noted at Sandfly that the very brightly colored, yellow or 

 greenish yellow, individuals were taken on green plants, while the 

 dull yellow or brownish specimens were found among the yellowing 

 and brown fronds of the bracken. The males were active, but not 

 alert and wire easy to capture; the females were much less active and 

 were usually met with in the heavier undergrowth where much 

 greater concealment was afforded. Females from Isle of Hope are 

 represented by four immature individuals only, indicating that 

 adult- of the species had been present but a very short time. 



The species was found not unusual through the low bushes, grasses 

 and low swamp-loving plants on low wet ground through the short- 

 leaf pine woods (Yemassee), very common in tall, rank, succulent 

 undergrowth in somewhat swampy gray-bark pine woods (Sandfly, 

 Isle of Hope); at the latter locality it was particularly numerous in 

 patches of yellow and brown bracken. 



The species was previously known from the single type specimen, 

 a male from Savannah, Georgia. 



Melanoplus attenuatus Scuddcr. PI. XIII, figs. 5, (>. 



Sullivan Island, South Carolina, IX, 5, Ashley Junction, S. C, VIII, 15, 1913, 

 1911. R. &H.), 1 o". (R.j, 3 juv. cr, 3 juv. 9. 



Magnolia, Charleston County, S. C, Augusta, Georgia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & 

 IX.:.. I'M 1 H,),9c?. I' • 3 juv. <?, 1 juv. 9. 



The striking dentate plications od each side of the supra-anal 

 plate near its base, are more pronounced in the specimen from Sullivan 

 Island than in those from Magnolia. The extremes in length in the 

 adult males before us are 18.5 and 20.6 mm. 



In general coloration the insects are empire yellow much suffused 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



with In-own. The post-ocular fuscous stripe is as heavy on the 

 prozona as in the most decidedly marked males of the series of 

 .1/. australis before us. 



A single specimen was found on the somewhat marshy, sandy 

 ground covered with low vegetation 'Sullivan [aland), bul the species 

 was found fairly numerous in moist places in the pine woods in the 

 low heavy undergrowth of plant- and scrub oaks less than a foot 

 in height Magnolia . A thunder storm prevented the accumulation 

 of a large series at the latter locality. In mid-August the young 

 alone were to be found in a depression overgrown with tal a 

 in long-leaf pine woods (Ashley Junction), and in late July a few 

 small young were found in short grasses in a somewhat swampy 

 in similar woods of the flat country just below the fall line 

 Lgusta). 



The species was previously known from the three male type - 

 mens from Smithville, at the mouth of the ('ape Fear River, in 

 extreme southeastern North Carolina, ami from one male and three 

 young from Denmark, South < larolina. 



Melanoplus hebardi (Rehn). PI. XIII. figs. 7, B. 



1906. /.' . Int. New-. XVII, p. 234: Tyty Plantation, Thomas 



( iounty, l 



Albanj I . VIII, 1. 1913, R & II 2 irv '. 2 juv. 9. 



The most important characters which separate this species from 

 the other- of the present group are given in the preceding analysis. 

 The figures of the genitalia, which accompany the original description, 

 are faulty and misleading. The type, which i- '22 mm. in length, 

 i- as large as the largest male of M. australis, which species avi i 

 considerably less than this measurement. The type of the presenl 

 species remain- the unique adult. 



The above series of about half-grown young was taken in the 

 heavy undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forest along the Flint River. 



Melanoplus nubilus •■<■ 11; pi. MM 



More closely related to M. australis, attenuatus and hebardi than 

 to M. '■■ liffering decidedly in the characters given in the 



analysis on pages _'l_' to 215. Females are scarcely separable from 

 dark female- of M. decorus, though the male- show wide differences 

 in the two species. 



Type: " I yretteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina. Sep- 

 tember '.». 1911. Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type 

 No. 107. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF PHE LCADEM1 OF | April. 



Description of Type, size smaller than in .1/. aitenuatus; form 

 slightly more attenuate, with pronotum less ample and bead slightly 

 more prominent. Tegmina abbreviate rotundate. 79 The important 

 genital characters, of which the form of the supra-anal plate (fig 

 and cercus (fig. 10) arc the most decided, are given in the preceding 

 analysis, while the abdominal coloration, also given there, is dis- 

 tinctive in this sex. 



Allotype: 9. Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — The vertex is found to be less depressed 

 mesad and the facial COSta still more weakly silicate than in females 

 of M. <lt corns, while the dorsum of the pronotnm narrows even less 

 than in that species and has, in consequence, the cephalic and caudal 

 width nearly subequal. 



The usual variation found in the two species, however, makes it 

 often impossible to separate females by the above characters, and we 

 are obliged to admit that we are unable to find definite different ial 

 characters for females of the two species. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



c? d" $J? 



type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 16 15.8-16.8 24.7 21.2-25 



Length of pronotum 3.8 3.7-4.1 4.9 4.9-5.3 



Length of tegmen 2.9 2.6-3.8 4.4 3.8-4.5 



Greatest width of same 2 L.8- 2.4 2.8 2.6-3 



Length of caudal femur 9.9 9.3-10.1 13 12.4-13.1 



Greatest width of same.. 2.2 2.2- 2. t 2.8 2.7-3 



The furcula of the present insect vary somewhat from the normal 

 regular and parallel form to one in which the sides are less regular 

 and the fingers divergent, the cerci also show some individual varia- 

 tion, two of the males have the ventral expansion of the tip of the 

 cercus decidedly produced and sharply acute-angulate. 



In coloration the -cries of specimens before us is quite uniform, 

 much resembling dark individuals of M. decorus, except that the post- 

 ocular fuscous stripe is abruptly terminated on the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum at the principal sulcus and the males have the dark 

 marking on the sides of the abdomen much more pronounced with 

 the dorsum of the same very dark. Half of the females have the 

 post-ocular fuscous stripe on the prozona interrupted by narrow 

 oblique pale fascise as in .1/. mist ml is. The dark males have a 



79 The tegmina show almost as much individual variation in this species as in 

 the others of this group. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



lacquered appearance in which a brownish and greenish suffusion 

 is apparent, the females range in general coloration from pecan 

 brown to warm sepia with markings of a darker shade. 



All of the materia] before us was taken in short-leaf pine woods 

 around a mill pond at Fayetteville, North ( larolina. The males were 

 occasional in gall-berry and other bushes and were found usually two 

 or three feel from the ground, "sitting up warily or jumping away." 

 while the female- wen- decidedly less abundant and less active and 

 by biding sometimes eluded pursuit. 



Specimens Examined. — 2i); L3 males, 6 females and i immature 

 female. 



Fayetteville, Cumberland County. North Carolina, IX. 9, 1911, 

 (R. & H.), 13 d\ 69, 1 juv. 9 , type, allotyjn and paratypes. 



The Tribulus Group of tfu Genus Melanoplus. 



The present group contain- .1/. obovaHpennis, morsei, tepidus, 

 tribulus, fribuloides, devius and decoratus; the species in relationship 

 following the order given above, of which the first three species are 

 very closely related, the next three likewise, while the last -peeies 

 is the most aberrant of the group. Scudder placed obovatipennis 

 in his anomalous Fasciatus Series, the relation-hips of the other 

 species, which are all more recent in description, have been correctly 

 though indefinitely given with the descriptions of the same, except- 

 ing M. decoratus, which species Morse considered more nearly related 

 to 1/. decorus. 



Melanoplus tribulus Morse. 



/'. nnsyh ania. Georgia 

 Pink Hill. Newtown Square, VI, 19, Clayton, VI, 1909, W. T. Davis), 1 <?. 



1908, I: . l '; VII, 15, mil. Rabun County, VII, 1910, W. T. 



11 .19. Davia . 1 



Maryland. Toccoa \ III 1-6, 1913, H I, i 



H.-lt-vill.-. \ II. I 1912, .1 I). II 1. ,,'!' V viii - ioiq \> i 



Plummer's Island, IX, 30, 1908, \ K. , ' '"Vim - ,,,,.. D i 

 Fish. - N M.J. .I-.-!-'. Mil ... 1913, (R.), luv 



Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913 I; . 



Dell Farm Dear Pohick, VIII, Buckhead, VIII, - 1913 I: a ll 



1912 \ N l hudell .1 -' "'■ ' ' J" v - ?• 



i - \ \i Vicuuty "i Stone Mountain, \lll. .".. 



1913, II 1 hiv . 

 "' ' arolina. I.,,., Mountain, Cobb County, VII, 



W'eldon, VII. 24, I'M::. II . 1 • 13, 1913 J « Bradlej . 1 . 



Males of this insect are almost inseparable from male- «.t' u. devius, 

 tor the characters which Morse gives in his original descriptions do 

 not hold. Females of the present species, however, differ greatly 




•J'Jii PROCEEDINGS 01 nil \' \i>i.\n 01 [April, 



from females of devius in being less robust, with narrower vertex 

 o\ the fastigium and narrower ovipositor jaws, and in having the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum less deep and the post-ocular fuscous 

 stripe there pronounced, narrow and Bharply denned from the pale 

 ventral portion of the lateral lobes. 



The male- and young recorded above from Georgia could not be 

 assigned to this species were it no1 quite certain thai M. devius is 

 found in Georgia only at the highest elevations in the Appalachians. 



Specimens before us from New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania 

 arc rather small and the males have the subgenital plate and preceding 

 ventral abdominal segments wholly immaculate; this coloration i- 

 found in bu1 a single southern male which is from Clayton, Georgia. 



The northernmost specimens here recorded were taken along the 

 edge of a deciduous forest adjacent to a barren serpentine outcrop 

 (Pink Hill i and among low bushes on sandy soil (Beltsville). In 

 I leorgia the species was found very locally in the undergrowth of 

 forests composed chiefly of deciduous trees, particularly on hillside.-. 



The species was previously known from Staten Island, New York. 

 Stafford's Forge, New Jersey, and Sharptop Mountain, Georgia. 



Melanoplus devius Morse. 



Jefferson, North Carolina, VIII, L907, Spartanburg, South Carolina, VIII, 6, 



I Sherman),! ', [U. S. N. M.]. L913, (H.), 1 9 , 12 juv. \lliuv.9. 



Charlotte, N. C, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & Wilson's Gap, Mountain City. Georgia 



II. . 3 '. 13 juv : \ 13 juv \ III. 22, L913, (J. C. Bradley), 19. 



The difficulty of separating males of this species from those of 

 M. tribulus is remarkable, considering that the females of the two 

 are very different, in devius being more robust, with broader fastigium 

 of the vertex and broader ovipositor jaws, with lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum deeper and the post-ocular fuscous stripe not sharply 

 outlined there, the lateral lobes being wholly infuscated with the 

 dorsal portion broadly darkened. 



The series from ( Jharlotte and Spartanburg were found by careful 



search in local areas of the rather scant undergrowth of the heavy 



deciduous forest. The species was previously known from Wythe- 



ville, Virginia, and Topton, Asheville and Mount Pisgah, North 



Carolina. 



Melanoplus decoratus Morse. 



Orange, Virginia, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & Clayton, Georgia, VI, 1909, (W. T. 

 Ill ',5 9,1 juv. <?. Davis), 1 d\ 



Macon, (la.. \ II. HI, 1«M3. (H.), 1 9. 



The present insecl may be readily separated from its allies by the 

 very peculiar subgenital plate of the male, which has a greatly devel- 




1916.] NATURAL S< [EN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



oped apical tubercle, and by the very strongly protuberanl vertex 

 in both sexes. 



Adults of the insect were found scarce in the undergrowth of a 

 heavy chesnul foresl on Southwest Mountain (a hill near Orange), 

 and among oak sprouts in a tangle of other plant- and vines in pine 

 woods (Macon . The above record- extend the known range of the 

 species both uorthward and southward. 



T) Puer Group of tin Genus Melanoplus. 



The following species belong to the presenl group, M. put r, rotundi- 

 pennis, stegocercus, minis, scapularis and strumosus. In all of these 

 species both sexes have the prosternal spine prominenl and very 

 broad, flattened cylindric with apex transversely excised, the sides 



rounded: the caudal tibia? are glaucous, often more or less flavescenl 

 at base and tip. with spines Mack or black-tipped. The species 

 are properly associated a- listed above, no one of them shows very 

 close affinity to any of the others, however, as each has one or several 

 decided ami unusual characters peculiar to itself. 



S ludder's association of the then known species, puer ami rotundi- 

 i» nms. i- of no value, the -it Mat i« m in regard to the latter i- discussed 

 below. Morse, at the time he described strumosus, did not discuss 

 it- relationship. 



Melanoplus rotundipennis Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus inops Scudder, Proc. Amer. Pbilos. Soc., XXXVI, p 16; 

 Proc. I' 8 \ it Mus., XX, pp. 130, 329 Florida.] 



jia. Thomasville, XI, 30, MI, l. I 



Brunswick, \ III 30, 1911 II . _' ,, " -' _ . , 



Cumberland Island, Mil. 31, 1911, Metcalfe, IV L7, 1903, (for Hebard), 

 R & II •• 7 .1 t. I 



, VIII 28 1911 i Florida. 



1 •. I BonvUle, Mil 25 L911, R & 



Billy's Island, V. 15, 1915, II . l II . II . 6 IV 7. 1913 \l 5 



3 juv. •, 2 iuv i : VI, VII, IX, 1911, N I Dayis), I d\ 



l!»l_' 13, J C Bi idlej .7 ,8 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 191 1, R 

 1 ju\ II - 



Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, J. C. Brad- Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, R & II 

 II 



Examination of the types of .1/. rotundipennis and M. inops shows 

 that the two are absolutely synonymous. The figures of the type 

 of inops in Scudder's Revision are very poor, the furcula indeed 

 being wholly overlooked; the figure of rotundipennis is, however, 

 quite satisfactory, though the base of the cercus in lateral aspeel is 

 drawn much too wide. 



Females ol this species constitute the bask for Scudder's record 




222 PBOCBBMNGS "I nil. H LDBM1 OF [April, 



of M. puer from Jacksonville, Florida, in bis Revision. 8 A series of 

 -nine specimens from northern Florida bave been referred by 

 the presenl author- to the synonymous inops, while the three females 

 mentioned above from Thomasville and Metcalfe, < Georgia, were unfor- 

 tunately recorded by us as M. syhestris,™ females of which species 

 max at once be roughly separated by their red caudal tibiae. 



Scudder's placing of the presenl species is mosl unsatisfactory, 

 as it is a development of the M. puer type; his opinion thai the 

 synonymous inops belonged to a widely different group demonstrates 

 amply his own uncertainty in the matter. 



A certain amount of size variation is appreciable, the series from 

 tin- Okeefenokee Swamp and Jacksonville averaging larger than the 

 others. 



Measurements (in millimeters) of extremes. 



Least width between 

 Length <>t" body. tegmina. 



9 9 <?<? 9 9 



Cumberland Island, Ga.... 13.6-16.7 17.8-20.5 .6-1 1.4-1.9 



Jacksonville, Fla 17-17.9 20.4-23.3 .8-1.1 1.1-1.7 



Live Oak, Fla 14-lti.l 18-20.3 .9-] 1.3-1.7 



The greatest tegminal separation is shown in a Thomasvilh- 

 female, where the least intervening width is 2.4 mm. 



The general coloration of the species varies from fuscous to orange 

 cinnamon. All of the males have the dorsal portion of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum shining black, but more than half of the 

 females have this marking abruptly discontinued at the metazona. 

 The caudal femora range from an immaculate type of coloration to 

 one in which they are heavily twice banded with fuscous, the immacu- 

 late type being found more often in the males. 



The species was found, usually locally distributed, in the under- 

 growth of the long-leaf pine woods, but was also sometimes met 

 with in the undergrowth of 1 mixed pine and oak woods (Live Oak), 

 and on palmetto Mats (Brunswick). As Morse has noted, the differ- 

 ences in general coloration of specimens were found to correspond 

 with the color of the surrounding soil or dead leaves in which indi- 

 vidual- were taken. 



The present species has a very limited distribution, northward being 

 known from Brunswick west to Thomasville in Georgia, and south- 

 ward as far as Lakeland in central Florida, in which latitude it appears 



"Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX. ]>. 253, (1898). 



« Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 791, (1905). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



to be very scarce. From the latter region, southward on the main- 

 land of peninsular Florida. .1/. puer replaces the present insect. 



Melanoplus stegocercus"- new species PL XII. tiir. 12; pL XIII, fin*. 11. 12. 13. 



Related to M. rotundipennis, bul differing very greatly in the male 

 genitalia. The female sex is unknown. 



Type: z ; ( lannoche Eliver at < rroveland, Bryan < Jounty, < reorgia. 

 July 28, 1913. (J. C. Bradley. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type 

 No. .".273.] 



Description of Type- Size and form similar to .1/. scapularis, but 

 somewhat heavier: cephalic and median femora somewhat swollen 

 as in .1/. rotundipennis, and with dorsum of pronotum having the 

 lateral carina- weakly and regularly diverging caudad as in that 

 species. Tegmina similar to those of scapvlaris, but not attingent 

 (least width between same 1 mm. . Extremity of abdomen broadly 

 and decidedly produced, tumid, but not at all upcurved; supra-anal 

 plate much as in scapularis, but with angles of lateral margins less 

 distal, furcula likewise absent fig. 11); cerci broad at base, thence 

 expanding evenly to the truncate distal margin, dorsal margin weakly 

 arcuate to the scarcely evident disto-dorsal angle, ventral margin 

 straight to the sharply rounded subrectangulate disto-ventral angle, 

 the cereal shafts regularly flexed so that the disto-dorsal portion of 

 the cerci is horizontal (though it- surface is swollen and uneven), 

 and the margins of the same when in normal position overlap in this 

 plane dorsad of the distal portion of the supra-anal plate (pi. XIII 

 12 : disto-ventral abdominal segment with caudal margin very weakly 

 produced mesad, subgenital plate roundly and rather broadly pro- 

 duced (length 2 mm.), with proximal lateral portion- of plate and 

 adjacent portion of preceding segment subcompressed, extending 

 beyond the apex of the supra-anal plate one-half the length of the 

 -nine fi(r. i:; . The Bofl integument between the supra-anal and 

 subgenital plates is almost wholly covered by the distal portion* 

 the cerci and does not rise above the dorsal margin of the subgenital 



plate. 



\J , asurenn in millinu U rt of i J pi 



Length of bod} 17 5 Greatest width of tegmen 



Length of pronotum Length of caudal femur 11 l 



.•Mi of tegmen 3 I Greatest width of caudal femur 



The specimen is larger than the typeof scapularis, but not as much 

 !- the body length would lend one to believe, the uncurved 



In allusion u> the remark' 

 able cerci, which cover clo» l\ » K<- caudal portion of 'li<- supra-anal pi 




224 pro< n dings 01 mi u iduii oi [April, 



abdominal extremity adding to the length measurement of the present 

 insect. 



In coloration the specimen closely resembles the more brilliantly 

 colored males of rotundipennis and has the caudal femora heavily 

 twice banded with fuscous. The general coloration is orange cinna- 

 mon with dorsal surfaces of head and pronotum walnut brown. 

 The sides of the abdomen arc marked with fuscous as in the males 

 nt' all the species of the present group. 



The type is unique. 



Melanoplus mirus vl new Bpecies. PI, XII. fig. 13; pi. XIII, Bgs. 1 1, 15, 10, 



The present insect is a development of t he M . pw r type, showing a 



very striking specialization of the male subgenital plate, which is 

 even more produced and compressed than in M. strumosus. Males 

 of the present species have, however, a very simple supra-anal plate, 

 much as in .1/. /hi,,-, while the pronotum, noticeably broader caudad 

 than cephalad, show- further affinity to that species and also to 

 .1/. rotundipennis. The entire absence of furcula is, however, found 

 elsewhere in the group only in M. steyocercus and M. scapularis. 



Type: cf; Weldon, Halifax Comity, North Carolina. July 24, 

 1913. diehard, i [Hebard Collection, Type No. 110.] 



Description of Type. — Size and form similar to moderately large 

 south Florida males of M. puer. Limbs, absence of furcula and 

 character of snpra-anal plate all agreeing with M. scapularis. Teg- 

 mina much as in .1/. rotundipennis. 94 Extremity of abdomen tumid, 

 greatly produced and upcurved; supra-anal plate simple as in 

 scapularis, but with lateral margins very weakly convex and con- 

 verging evenly caudad (fig. 14), furcula absent: cerci moderately 

 broad at base, narrowing sharply to half this width mesad, thence 

 after a -har]; inward flexion of the shaft expanding distad to a width 

 as the base, from which point narrowing, again with an even 

 curvature, to the -harp disto-ventral apex, all of the narrowing and 

 widening i- due to the curvature of the dorsal margin, the ventral 

 margin is almost straight, 86 the apices of the two cerci are attingent 

 just beyond the distal extremity of the supra-anal plate (fig. 15); 

 disto-ventral abdominal segment produced mesad in a very small 

 -harp point, Bubgenital plate greatly produced, compressed, -tela- 



allusioo to the remarkable genitalia of the male sex. 

 be size, shape and degree of separation of the tegmina vary considerably 



in th<- presenl a 



■'In consequence the outline of the distal enlargement of tin' cerci bears a 

 close resemblance to the outline of a duck'.- head. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



form conical, with apex sharply rounded (length 2.6 nun. (fig. 1G». 

 Allotype: 9: Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of A Uotype. — Closely resembling in size and form 

 moderately large south Florida females of .1/. put r, but with principal 

 sulcus somewhat more decided od dorsum of pronotum; color 

 pattern and tegmina (though extremely variable) much a^ in M. 

 rotundipennis. When compared with this latter species the insect 

 is found to be smaller and much more compact with shorter and 

 more robust limbs. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



d\£ 9^9 



Type. Paratypi Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 16.2 L5.5 L5.8 L8.8 20 ' 19.5 



Length Of pronotum '■'< • 3.8 1.2 11 1 . . 



-, of tegmen 3.7 3 3.4 L3 ' 3.7 



Greatest width of same 2.3 2.2 2.4 2.9 2.8 2.9 



Length of caudal femur 9.7 9.4 9.8 10.8 10.6 11.2 



Greatest width of same 2 i 2.6 2.1 2.8 2.8 _'.7 



The specimens have the caudal margin of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum extremely weakly emarginate mesad, bo weak indeed as 

 to l>e scarcely appreciable to the nuked eye except in one female. 

 This character is often found in species pf tKe present group, but 

 nowhere as decided as in M. puer. 



A more or less noticeable truncation of the tegmina) apex is present 

 in all of the material before us, with the exception of a single paratypic 



male. 



In coloration the species generally resembles M. rotundipennis, 



pt that the mah- differ decidedly in having the ventral margins 



of the caudal femora sharply pale and quite striking, tin- marking 

 broader proximad. The females are similarly marked, hut to a much 

 nid usually inconspicuous degn 



The -peri.- was found very scarce in scattered wood- of low pines 

 and oak-, with a typical ammoph) t if undergrowth of huckleberry 

 and other low bushes and plants. The species was recognized as new 

 ami several hour- were spenl in minute search before the six examples 

 were taken, all of the-,- being hum, I m an are:, not one hundred feet in 

 diameter. The insects were wary, but were found ti» hide constantly, 

 bo that by careful approach and guarding with the net the majority 

 nicked up with ease. The species does not jump vigorously. 



Sj,. Examined. 6; 3 males and 3 females. 



Weldon, North < arolina, VII, 24, 1913, I! .:; ^,3 9, type, allotypi 

 and paratyp 




226 PROCEEDINGS "t PHE H IDEM1 01 [April, 



Melanoplus scapularis I I. PI Ml. Bg. 14; pi. Mil. Bgt 17, I s 



Closely related to M. rotundipennis, bul differing very greatly in 

 the male genitalia. Females of the two species are very similar, but 

 those of the present insect are separable by the more nearly attingenl 

 begmina, which are also more ample and more nearly rotundate. 



Type: &) Jesup, Wayne County, Georgia. September 1, 1911. 

 Rehn & Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 111.] 



1), sen pi urn of Type.- Size and form similar to M, rotundipennis, 

 but Bomewhat more compact; cephalic and mediao femora less 

 swollen, the caudal femora slightly shorter and a little deeper in 

 proportion to their length. Tegmina abbreviate, rotundate, bu1 

 very little longer than broad, attingent. The tegminal length much 

 more nearly approximates the breadth of the same than in rotundi- 

 pennis. Extremity of abdomen tumid, strongly upcurved; supra- 

 anal plate decidedly longer than in rotundipennis, but otherwise 

 similar (fig. 17), furcula absent; cerci broad at base, distal portion 

 broadly expanding into a lamellate plate resembling a scapula, 

 greate-t width at distal extremity hardly greater than length of 

 cercus, dorso-distal angle rotundato-rectangulate, disto-ventral angle 

 acute angulate, distal margin obtusely emarginate (fig. 18). The sofl 

 integument between the supra-anal and subgenital plates does not 

 rise above the dorsal margin of the latter plate in the present insect. 87 



Allotype: * : Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Very similar to females of M. rotundipen- 

 nis, but maybe separated by the tegminal characters given above. 

 All of the females before us have the tegmina either attingent or 

 separated by the scantiest interspace, the extreme separation being 

 shown by a female from Isle of Hope in which the least width 

 between the tegmina is .'■'> mm.) In structure scapularis is a little 

 more compact with >horter and heavier caudal femora. 



Minsnrements {in millimeters). 



<?<? 9 9 



Type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body L5 16-16.7 22.2 19.7-21 



Length of pronotum 3.9 3.8-3.9 5.1 Is- 4.9 



len :i 3- 3.2 4.2 3.8- 3.9 



Greatest width of same 2.4 2.2-2.6 3.1 2.«.»- 3.1 



Length of caudal femur in 9.7-10.2 12.5 11.6-11.9 



test width of same 2.9 2.7-2.9 :i.7 3-3.2 



• In allusion to the scapuliform cerci. 

 In M. rotundipennis tin- integumenl is produced upward in an acute pro- 

 tuberance, which rises conspicuously above the distal margin of t lie subgenital 



plate. 




1916.] NATURAL S< DENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



The other specimens of the species before us agree fully with the 

 above measurements. 



In coloration the present species closely resembles rotundipennis, 

 but the scrit- before us i- :ill rather 'lark ami. in all but two females 

 from [sle of Hope, the dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the prono- 

 tum including the metazona is blackish. 



The presenl species was found in a restricted area of a sandy tract 

 covered with various low bushy plants, such as Myrica pumila,Qiu reus 

 minima, gall-berry bushes and saw palmettoes (Jesup), and in scant 

 undergrowth of the slightly more elevated portions of the flat almost 

 swampy gray-bark pine woods (Sandfly, [sle of Bope). The species 

 was very scarce, long-continued and thorough -''arch being made for 

 it at each locality where it was found. 



Specimens Examined. — 15; 5 males, 8 females and 2 immature 

 specimens. 



Sandfly, Chatham County, Georgia, IV 3, 1911, (H.), 1 o", 19, 

 in coitu. 



Isle of Hope, ' lhatham I lounty, Ga., IX. 3, l'.'l l. I;. & H. . 49, 

 1 juv. cf . 



Jesup, Wayne County, Ga., IX. 1. L911, (R. & II. i, 4 o", 39, 

 1 juv. ?, type, aliotypt and paratypes. 



Melanoplus strumoius Morae, PI. XIII, GgB. 10, - 



Soiii, < 'mniiim. Georgia. 



■ vil!. -. IX 6, 1911, II Tallulah Falls, \ III. 5, 1909, .1 C 



Ivanhoe, \ll 19Q7, I. M. Smith), Bradley),! .. 



l i S N M Currahee Mountain, VIII 5, L913 



./// < arolina. , , , .... ,,., , , , , 



Spring < reek, \ I. . J->. mi I. \ II, 



Florence, IX 6, 191 1. R & II 2 _•. 28 1913 J. I Bradlej . 2 . , 

 ^ emassa I \ l. 191 I. II . I '. I 



This insect, which may be said t<> be the m<>-t aberrant of tli«' Puer 

 ' iroup, differs from all other species in this group in the shape of the 

 male supra-anal plate and furcula, which have I '»<ti well figured and 

 described by M<>! 



A certain similarity to \i in the form of the male sub- 



genital plate is apparent, but in the present insect tin- plate distad 

 narrow- considerably more and is also deflected dorsad, which gives 

 the apex <>t' the abdomen a very different appearan 21 I. The 



cerci suggest in contour those ol V m ■■< , bu1 are decidedly smaller, 

 less flexed and more simple in outline fig. 20). It is interesting to 

 uote that \\ bile U got • o^ a common an- 



egie ln-i ibl No 18, pp. 51 13 1904 




228 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi. \.i \i«i \n 01 [April. 



cestry, and all have a peculiar and very derided developmenl of the 

 subgenital plate, stegocercus is particularly remarkable in cereal char- 

 acters, mirus in the greatesl specialization of the subgenital plate 

 combined with very peculiar cerci, while strumosus has quite similar 

 cerci to minis, though these are much smaller, bu1 is very different 

 from all other members <>t' Hie presenl group in the characters <>!' Hie 

 supra-anal plate and furcula (fig. 19). 



The females of the present species would Or almost indist inguishable 

 from female- of .1/. rotundipennis, were it not for the fact that in the 



!■ species the cephalic width of the dor-inn of the proiiotuni is less 

 than the caudal width of the same to a degree not found in the 



present insect. 



• The variation in size of the present species does not appear to lie 

 geographically correlated in any way. The five Currahee Mountain 

 males range in length from 16 to 17 mm., while the largest females 

 are from Tallulah Falls and Spring ( 'reek. 23.5 and 20.2 mm., respect- 

 ively. The smallest female before us is also from Spring Creek, in 

 length 20.1 mm. Though usually wide, the interspace between 

 the tegmina is decidedly variable in the present species. 



In coloration the majority of the series before us have the caudal 

 femora showing scarcely any traces of fuscous bars, one female from 

 Florence, however, has these bars weakly indicated, while the 

 Yemassee female and the two Spring Creek individuals of the same 

 sex have these Oar- heavy and very pronounced. 



The species was found very scarce on the ground among oak 

 -prout- i Fayetteville, Florence), in underbrush on higher ground, 

 ju<t above where the short-leaf pines disappeared, and in oak sprouts 

 in long-leaf pine woods (Yemassee), while on Currahee Mountain 

 it wa- found very local on the mountain summit in the luxuriant 

 mountain undergrowth of grasses, vines and oak sprouts (particularly 

 about the latter), in a forest predominantly black-jack oak. 



The Mancus Group of the Got us Mclanoplus. 

 Of the five -pecii- originally included in his "Mancus Series" by 

 Scudder, one only properly belongs to it, this being mancus. Scuddi -ri 

 belongs to a group of which it i- the best known representative, while 

 the other three species should be distributed over three other groups 

 which -how natural relation-hip-. With mancus, however, should be 

 dated M. islandicus Blatchley and celatus, sylvestris and divergens 

 Morse, the proper sequence apparently being divergens, mancus, 

 islandicus, celatus and sylvestris. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



Melanoplus sylvestris Morse. 



North Carolina. Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, VII, 



Black Mountain, VII, 1912, (W. 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 



Beutenmuller). 2 9, [Davis Cln.l. Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, Mil. 



20, 1913, (J. C Bradley), 2 - 



Georgia. Rabun Bald, Rabun County, 4.000- 



< lavton, 2.000-3,700 foot, VI, 1909, 1,800 feet, XIII. 21, 1913, (J. C. 



\\ . T. Davis i, 1 o*. Bradley), 1 juv. 9. 

 Rabun < ounty, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 Davis), 1 9 . 



This form is clearly an offshool of M. islandicus as stated by Morse, 



probably being but a geographic race. The male here Listed -hows 

 an even greater elongation of the cercus than seen in the figure given 

 by Morse, but this is not surprising, the type- being from central 

 western North ( larolina. The Georgia material from a more extreme 

 geographic point could be expected to -how a greater development 

 of the feature- which differentiate the form. 



The species is only known from the localities given above, and 

 Blowing Rock, Linville, Lovering's and Pineola, North Carolina 

 Morei 



The Scudderi Group of tin Genua Melanoplus. 



We have placed M . carm [in i and scuddi ri in a group which i- easily 

 distinguished from the "Mancus Series" in which scudderi was 



previously placed. 

 Melanoplus carnegiei Morse 



South Carolina. sharp Mountain, \ III. 6, 1913, R 



Spartanburg, VlII, 6, 1913, II . 1 \ s '■ *'• ■ ■ :i i" v - 9 • 



.") juv. -\ 10 j ; Silver Lake, Pulton County, \ III, 10, 



V. •„,.-, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & II |, -" :; - ■'■ r Bradlej I 



Is || 2 . Buckhead, VIII. 2, 1913, R. & B.), 



-' ' . "l (11 v. '. .". |U\ 



Georgia. Vicinitj of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, VIII, 1913, R & II , 5 juv ' I iu\ .. 



20 1913. J C Bradley), I ' Warm Springs, 850 1,200 feet, VIII, 



Toccoa, V III. i 5, I'M.; II . 25 ". 9 10 L913 R : I . 2 juv. 



:j juv. •", id ji. 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, L913 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913 l: & II 



II . 22 • 12 . 5 juv ' _'juv. 9. I ■. II juv. \ 15 juv 



\ III 5 1913 R 2 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913 R & II 



I juv. ._•', .'{ JUV . I '. "■ ju\ ". .". ju . 



Available data -how thai carnegiei has b fairly extended rang* 

 through diverse conditions in the southeastern State-, tin- extending 

 i ion i Sulphur Springs, North I Carolina, Pinnacle Peak and Blue Ridge, 



'•The record <>i tnu om Tbomasville and Metcalfe, Georgia made 



by the authors Pro< \< w>. Nai So Phila 1904, p. 791, 1905 ^iserroni 

 Mi it reference instead relating to W rotundipenni . a specie* then unknown 



I I thrill 



16 « 




230 PRO< l BDING8 OF THE A< LDBM1 OF [April. 



Georgia, south and east as far as Warm Springs and Macon, Georgia, 

 and Yemassee, South Carolina. The material shows a greal amounl 



of individual variation in size, both sexes exhibiting this in material 



from the same locality, collected in the same environment. ( lertain 



individuals, particularly of the female sex, show a general lightening 

 of the entire coloration, while very rarely one adult and certain 

 nymphs) the pronotum is washed with pinkish. The adult male 

 from Augusta is very pale and quite ochraceous, with the doi 

 femoral markings very decided, solid and regular. These markings 

 vary appreciably in individuals of relatively the same color depth. 

 There is some variation in both sexes in the form of the tegmina, the 

 distal sectiou being more rounded and less subangulate in certain 

 specimens than in others. 



From the available evidence we find that the species occurs adult 

 as early as July 25 (Blue Ridge, Georgia; Morse) and as late as 

 October 7 Sulphur Springs, North Carolina; Rehn & Hebard), few 

 adult- having appeared as late as August 4 (Toccoa). 



This form is always sylvan in habitat, occurring on the ground 

 under oaks and in mixed oak and pine woods. On one occasion it was 

 found about low scrub oak scattered over a sandy area (Augusta). 



Melanoplus scudderi scudderi (Uhler). 



Virginia. Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 191] R. A: 



Orange, VII, 21, L913, R. & H.), H. >. 1 d\ 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



1 juv. /". South Carolina. 

 Lynchburg, VII. 22 1913, (R. A: B.), ( •„,,„„,,„, V II, 28, L913, (R. a H. 



2 juv. : , 2 juv. 9. •. ■ - •. • . q 



Natural Bridge IX. 12 and 13, 1907, Y { nV( , nrv IX " r , j,,, , , H & H>) 8 # 



B. Long), 19. o n ti i llv o 



Petersburg, VII. 23, 1913, (R. & II . 6 V ' b JUV ' V V. 



2 in-. Georgia. 



Thompson's Mill.-. X. 1910, (H. A 

 North Carolina. Allard), W . S. N. M.]. 



Weldon, VII. 24, L913, (R. & H. . Austell. VIII. 27. 1911, 2 c \ [da. 



2 juv. f, .', juv. 9. State Cln.]. 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H), Albany, VIII, 1. 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv fi juv. . '. .") juv. 9 . 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, (R. & II . Bainbridge, IX. 7-X, 19, 1910, <J. C. 

 i? '. 1 i . 1 juv. :. 5 juv. 9. Bradley), 1 9. 



From a study of the material before us from the eastern and 

 .southeastern Stat.-, it i- evident that southwards both sexes .-how ;i 

 gradual broadening of the tegmina and rounding of the distal margin 

 of the same. Thi8 feature is similar to that found in the Texan 

 form, scudderi texensis Hart, of which we have typical material, but 

 that race also ha- the general form more compressed in both sexes. 

 the furcula longer, the subgenital plate less produced and some feat- 

 ure- of the coloration different. The relation-hip of the materia! 




1916.] NATURAL BCIEN< B6 01 PHILADELPHIA. 231 



seen from all of Georgia (Austell south To Thomasville and from 

 the Carolinas is clearly with Middle States and New England 8. 

 scudderi, although showing a parallelism to one of tin- features of 

 g. texensis, but representative of the typical form in all the other 

 characters. 



Individual size variation in this species is considerable, but there 

 i- also an average southward increase in the general bulk. 



The earliest date we are acquainted with on which adult- have 

 been taken in the southeastern States is August 24 Chattanooga, 

 Tenn.: Morse), while we have secured material as late as December 

 14 Thomasville, < la.: Hebard). 



The species was taken in sylvan surroundings, the undergrowth of 

 pine and oak wood- being it- favorite situation. 



7'. Fasciatus Group of tfu Genus Melanoplus. 



A tentative study of the species which have been referred to this 

 divisioo -how- that a recasting of the whole aggregation is necessary, 

 but our collated information i- not sufficiently extensive to say more 

 than that fasciatus, querneus, franciscanus, nigrescens and walshii 

 are certainly, and inconspicuus probably, members of this assemblage. 

 We can state definitely that atteniiatus, borealis, cockerelli, obovati- 

 pennis, rotundipennis, morsei and iepidus are not to be included in 

 the same category. Of these attenuatus is a member of the Decorus 

 Group, obovalipennis, morsei and tepidusaxe members of theTribulus 

 Group and rotundipt runs belongs to the Pu r Group, while amplecti hs 

 i- a synonym of walshii and juvencus equals viridipes, a member of 

 the Gracilis Group. Scudder's wltator belongs to another category, 

 including as\ ■ id other -pec; 



The species of this group apparently form a transition to the 

 constantly long-winged form- of the genus, the relation-hip being 

 chiefly, however, with the short-winged form-. The sequence of 

 species known to belong to this division appears t" us to he a- given 

 above. 



Melanoplus querneus ■ 



l 1 ' i.". M Rehn and ll«l>;ir<l 



- i I * 1 1 1 1 i . 1904, p 791 



\ member of the/ group and more nearly related to M. 



walshii and i I ban to any of the other members of the genus. 



In general structure and coloration the new species U practically 



identical with the two older form-, but it differs from both in the 

 slightly longer tegmina in both sexes, the broader sublamellate male 




232 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: \< \iu \n 01 [April, 



cerci, which are Bubconstricted mesad, and in the rounded and 



bardlj produced apical tnargip of the subgenital plate of the same 



The females of the three species arc very similar, bu1 the 



stantly longer tegmina and slightly less bicolored character of 



the same in guerneus enable one to distinguish it. 



Type: cf : Thomasville, Thomas County, Georgia. November 30, 

 1903. (Morgan Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. L16.] 



Description of Type. — Size large; form moderately robust. Head 

 as in nigrescens excepl for the frontal costa failing to reach the 

 clypeal suture; antennas very long, slightly longer than the pronotum 

 and tegmina together. Pronotum as in nigrescens. Tegmina almost 

 or quite reaching the region of the furcula when the abdomen is in 

 the usual somewhat recurved position, appreciably longer than in 

 nigrescens, considerably exceeding the combined length of the head 

 and pronotum, subacuminate, the apices narrowly rounded; sutural 

 margins moderately arcuate. Prosternal spine similar to that of 

 nign sa ns; interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly broader 

 and less decidedly longitudinal than in nigrescens; interspace between 

 the met asternal lobes subattingent, but not contiguous as in nigres- 

 cens. Abdomen subcompressed proximad, with a fairly distinct and 

 moderately elevated medio-longitudinal carina; furcula merely 

 the briefest of points projecting from the disto-dorsal abdominal 

 segment, poorly indicated on the surface of the segment as broad, 

 rounded areas, between which the segment is emarginate; supra-anal 

 plate as in nigrescens, but the proximal medio-longitudinal sulcus 

 and its marginal carina? are more decided and the median transverse 

 carina is more strongly indicated (fig. 3); cerci broad, sublamellate, 

 the greatest distal width hardly more than half the length, broad 

 at base, somewhat narrowing to the middle, the whole dorsal margin 

 arcuato-emarginate, the disto-dorsal angle rotundato-rectangulate, 

 distal margin arcuato-truncate and gently rounding into an obliquely 

 truncate di-to-ventral section, which latter passes by a very slight 

 angle into the ventral margin, distal section with surface faintly 

 tumid and separated from distal margin by an arcuate impression 

 (fig. 1); subgenital plate distinctly broader than long, the apical 

 margin semi-elliptical in shape when seen from the dorsum, when 

 seen from the side moderately emarginate with a faintly produced 

 extremity I fig. 2). Cephalic and median limbs slightly more elongate 

 than in nigrescens. ( 'audal femora similar to those of nigrescens, 

 but dorsal outline more concave distad; caudal tibiae with external 

 spines ten to eleven in number. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as type but taken December 3, 1903. 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Differing only from the same Bex of 

 nigrescent in the average larger size, actually as well as proportion- 

 ately, longer antenna?, longer tegmina and more robust and less 

 attenuate ventral valves of tin- ovipositor. The tegmina are dis- 

 tinctly longer than the head and pronotum together. The ventral 

 jaws of the ovipositor are well decurved at the apex and have the 

 proximal tooth strongly indicated, these being more -lender, straighter 

 and with a weaker tooth in nigrescens, while in walshii the valves, 

 though nearly as straight as in nigrescens, are heavier and nearer in 

 form to those of querneus. 



Measun mutts \ in miUirru i> i 



Thomasville, 1 1 Length "t 



Length Length <>t" Length of caudal 



of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



■ XI. 30, L903. Type 22.5 L0 15.8 



' XI, 12, 1902. Paratype 27.1 6.5 11.7 16. 7 



. XII, 3, 1903. Allotype 32.2 6.7 LI. 6 17.:i 



XII, 10, L903. Paratype 32 - 7.9 12.5 L8 3 



In -ize there i- some little variation, particularly in the male 

 the type and allotype being aboul the minimum for each sex, the 

 maximums being measured above. The males show practically no 

 individual variation at all in the form of the appendages, there being 

 hut a scarcely perceptihle amount in the relative depth of the cercus, 

 while the female- -how no uoteworthy structural variation. 



< olor Notes. Detailed color de.-cr i pt i< it : - made from life have 

 already been published for tin- species see above In consequence 

 we will only comment on the differences noted from those descrip- 

 tions. The general coloration is diluted or brightened in certain 

 individuals, the pale tone- becoming cinnamon buff on the dorsum 

 of the head, pronotum, anal field "i tegmina, pleural streak and 

 caudal femora, while rarely the deepening <>t" the coloration bas 

 resulted in a general benzo brown to fuscous tone, with the .lark 

 markings fuscous black to shining Mack. The caudal tibia occa- 

 sionally -how n. i trace of maroon or poppy red, but are largely dull 

 honey yellow with tin- usual proximal Buffusion. The less bicolored 

 condition of the tegmina in tin- species, when compared with walshi\ 

 and itnjr. due to the more pronounced breaking iii* into small 



maculatione ol the blackish fuscous of the discoidal and marginal 

 tie|.|-. while in - md walshii these areas are more uniformly 




PROCEEDINGS OF PHE \< \m:\n 01 [April, 



colored and consequently more contrasted with the almost invariably 

 paler anal area. We have bu1 one specimen of guemeus, a male, 

 which Bhows little or no contrasl between the two sections of the 

 tegmina, this being the very dark individual mentioned above. 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us a series of 

 ten males and thirteen females, taken at Thomasville on dates 

 extending from November 30 to December 13, 1002 1003, all of 

 which may be considered paratypic. 



Before we were able to examine specimens of undoubted nigrescent 

 we referred to this Bpecies by thai name, but now with Scudder's 

 species in hand it is quite evident thai the two arc distinct. 



This species was found frequenting the vicinity of scrub oaks in 

 the pine and oak woods. Extensive notes on the habits of the 

 species have been previously published (vidi supra). 



Melanoplus nigrescens (8cudder). 



Lake Waccamaw. North Carolina, IX, St. Simon's [aland, Georgia, VIII, 30, 

 8, 1911, H. & H), 1 o". 1911, (R. & H.),4 tf, 11 9- 



The above records, with those of Scudder from "Georgia "and Smith- 



ville. North Carolina, form all the information we have on the range of 

 this species, as the record of nigrescens from Thomasville, Georgia, made 

 by the authors 90 we now find to have been based on the allied but 

 distinct new species, M. querneus, which is described above. We 

 find on comparison that nigrescens is closely related to walshii, 

 differing chiefly in details of the dorsum of the pronotum, in the 

 peculiar offset or twist of the distal section of the male cercus and 

 in the more pronounced apex of the subgenital plate of the same 

 sex. The females are almost indistinguishable, the more delicate 

 median carina of the pronotum. the straighter ovipositor jaws 

 (particularly ventral) and the more subequal and less distinctly 

 tapering prosternal spine being about all the really tangible characters 

 in nigrescens to separate that sex from walshii. In coloration the two 

 species are almost identical, each varying to about the same degree 

 individually, although on the whole nigrescens has the dorsal aspect 

 generally paler. There can be no question but that both species are 

 member- of the same species group. 



The size shows but little variation in the series and this is slightly 

 more pronounced in the female than in the male sex. 



From the records the specie- seems to be restricted to the lower 

 portion of the Coastal Plain within theSabalian or Basic Austral Zone. 



S0 Proc. Acad. Nai Si i. Phila., 1904, p. 701. (1905 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



The Lake Waccamaw specimen was taken in heavy undergrowth 

 of bushes in short-leaf pine woods, while on St. Simon's Island the 

 species occurred in very few numbers among dead leaves under 

 live oaks. In the latter situations there was practically no ground 

 vegetation owing to the constant shade of the oak groves. A par- 

 ticular search was made for the species elsewhere as well as on St. 

 Simon's Island and all Been were secured. The date for the Smith- 

 viile record given by Scudder is November 22. so the species is seen 

 r<» be present, where found, from late August to the latter part of 

 November. 



Melanoplus walihii Judder. 



1897. Melanoplus walshii Scudder, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mu- . XX p 235 



pi. XV. eg. 10. 

 1897. Melanoplus ampledens Scudder, ibid., p. 260, pi. XVII, fig 7 

 1897. Melanoplus blatchleyi Scudder, ibid., p. 322, pL XXI. fig in 



North Carolina. Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 



Black Mountain. VII and VIII. 1912, •"'■ 1913, M ,9 I 



W. Beutenmuller), 4 '119, [Davis Snar P Mountain, 1,800-2,000 feet, 



C] n VIII, 6, 1913, I: . :; 



.,./„. Dalton, 850 1,200 feet, \ III. 7. 1913, 



Rabun Bald, Rabun County, VII. R ' l 9 ■ 



1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 d\ 1 9. 



The above synonymy i- evident after examining ail the typical 

 material involved,' 1 the individual and i<> an extenl geographic varia- 

 tion found in the species probably being responsible for Scudder's 

 confusion. The general size, form of the cerci, furcula, supra-anal 

 and subgenital plate-, caudal femora and tegmina, a- will a- certain 

 features of the coloration, are found to he variable in the series of 

 eighty-one specimens from seventeen localities before us. The 

 largest specimens an- from the Missouri valley region, hut the 



variation in this respecl at any locality represented by a series i- 



seen to !»• very considerable. It is quite possible that tin- acquisition 



of more material from the Mississippi and Missouri valleys will 



-how the desirability of recognizing two rare- of tin- species, one ;i 



western one t<» which the name blatchL yi proposed to replace Bruner's 



ccupied Pezotettix occidentals , described from Omaha, Nebraska) 



should !"• limited, and the other to which typical waUhii, with 

 miijilxii ii a- a synonym, would he applied. There can he no 



question hut that these form-, if recognizable, are hut rare- of one 



'■-. for which the name tust he used. A' present we 



hi- already pl:i<«« 1 blatchleyi in the synonymy under 'un/,1. ■ 

 ape In-t. Wash., Publ No L8, p 60, 1904 




236 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi. \. \i>i\iy OP [April. 



lack Bufficien.1 material to enable us to test ou1 satisfactorily the 

 geographic value of characters suggested by our series. 



We have before us the typical material on which Bruner's occi- 

 dentalis, the basis of blatchleyi, was founded and have examined all 

 the types of both walshii and amplectens, hence the above synonymy 

 ha- been established by reference to the basic material. 



Thai Scudder was in great difficulty with this variable species i- 

 evidenced by his treatment of the synonymic uames. The first 

 walshii, he placed in his rustic/is series, the second, amplectens, in 

 his fasciatus -eric- and the third, blatchleyi, in his texanus -erics. 

 In our opinion the species clearly belongs to the Fasciatus Group; 

 thai is, it should be placed in the general vicinity of fasciatus, for 

 while the genitalia are different in some respects, a number of other 

 feature- arc very similar. 



The extreme- in size in the present -cries are as follows: 



Length of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotuin. tegmen. femur. 



bun Bald, Ga 19.1mm. 5 nun. 6.2 mm. 11.5 mm. 



c? Currahee Mtn., Ga 25.2 " 5.7 " 7.2 " 14.2 " 



9 Rabun Bald, Ga 25.2 " 5.7 " 8 " 13.9 " 



9 Currahee Mtn., (,a 29.8 " 6.5 " 8.2 " 15.9 " 



The Currahee Mountain and Sharp Mountain series show con- 

 siderable individual variation in size, the minimum of the female 

 sex from Currahee Mountain being hardly larger than the minimum 

 measured above, while the Sharp Mountain lot shows even greater 

 variation in the male than is found in the same sex in the Currahee 

 Mountain representation. There is very little variation in color, 

 the most apparent being the degree of infuscation of the anal area of 

 the tegmina, the presence or absence of the pale spot proximo-dorsad 

 on the external pagina of the caudal femora and the absence or 

 presence, depth and extent of a dark pregenicular annulus on the 

 caudal tibiae. 



All of the specimens taken by us were secured in the normal 

 sylvan habitat of the species; on Currahee Mountain on the 

 upper -lope- of the mountain, among the heavy undergrowth of 

 vines, oak sproute and grasses in a forest composed chiefly of black- 

 jack oak, being only occasional on the slopes and fairly abundant 

 on the summit; on Sharp Mountain under similar conditions in 

 a forest of coniferous and deciduous trees and all seen were taken, 

 while at Dalton one was secured on a steep slope under deciduous 

 trees. 




1916.] NATURAL S( LENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Long-winged Species of the genus Melanoplus. 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 



Maryland. Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, L911, (R. & 

 Glen Echo. VII, 10, 1914, B.), 1 <?■ H), 2 9. 



Virg 



Fredericksburg, Ml. 20, l-l.;. R. & Columbia, MI. 28, I'M:;. |;. & h 



-, 1 '„.. 1 MI.ji.l,.:;. R &H .1 -. 8umte & V, 30 L914, w. Stone), 19. 



4 ? . 



A. X g P 



Natural Bridge, IX. 12-13, 1907, during, Y, 23 to 30, 1914, (W. St. 

 B. Long), 1 •. A NT.S P 5 o*, 49,1 ]uv. . . [A. V .s. P.]. 



Lynchburg, MI. 22, 1913, R. & II.), gia. 



„ - : • __ , „ Rabun County, MI. L910, (W. T. 



Petersburg, MI. 2:',. 1913, R. & II Davis . 2 \" 5 I 



Clayton, ' 2,000-3,700 feet, M, L909 

 North Carolina. \\ T Davis), 3 &. 



nsboro, VII. 26, L913, R. & II . Buckhead, VIII. 2, L913, R. & II . 

 1 cf. l ' 



Weldon, VII. _'I. L913, H. & II . Macon, VII. 30-31, 1913, R. & II 



1 cf, 1 9. 1 • 



Charlotte, VII. 27, 1913, I: & II 

 1 cf. 



The presenl species is relatively infrequent in the Coastal Plain 

 south of North Carolina and the lower Gulf drainage of southern 

 Georgia, in addition having never been definitely recorded from 

 peninsular Florida. Thai from Thomasville (Rehn a- Hebard) is 

 the only known -onth Georgia record and Marianna (Morse) is the 

 only definite Florida locality. 



The presenl representation -how- considerable individual variation 

 in genera] size and in tegminal length, while the coloration shows 

 the usual variability of this plastic species. One of the Rabun 

 County male- has the caudal tibia? pale glaucous clouded with 

 brownish proximad and distad. 



The above specimens secured by us were all taken in cultivated or 

 waste fields, being common nowhere excepl al < Grange and Petersburg, 

 while generally very scarce. 



Melanoplus impudious Boudder. 



South Carolii Dalton, VJII, 7. 1913. R .19. 



i i i it. , i,.i . i, . ii I' ' Mountain. <'<il>l> County. \II. 



Columbia, Ml 28, 1913, R & ll ,,„ , , . [Ga . State Cln 



• \\ inn Springs, VIII, 10, 1913 R 



thee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, J < 

 II Bradley ,19. 



The presenl material, when compared with a New .1 eries 



before us, is found to have the tegmina ;» ri« 1 wings somewhal lon| 

 these slightly surpassing the tips of the caudal femora in the majority 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF I'llK acadkmv OF [April, 



southern specimens, while the coloration is more uniform and 

 much as in the least maculate of the New Jersey specimens. The 

 few specimens before us from [ndiana agree perfectly with New 

 Jersey material, but are all of the less maculate type of coloration. 



Occasional small, dark and exceptionally compact females of 

 .1/. luridus, having abbreviate tegmina, tnighl easily be confused with 

 examples of the same sex of the present species. Examination, 

 however, reveals the fact that the ovipositor jaws in that species arc 

 longer, with their narrowed distal portions much longer and less 

 curved. Further examination shows that such examples of .1/. 



lwridu& have larger, more protuberant and darker eyes, a Less 

 trim pronotum, heavier limits and other characters by which they 

 can lie distinguished. Typical females of .1/. luridus are very 

 different, even in superficial appearance, from typical females of the 

 present specie - 



The series here recorded was taken in a pine forest on a hillside 

 ambia), in a heavy tangle of pine and oak Woods undergrowth 

 (Dalton, Warm Springs) and on Currahee Mountain very few were 

 found at the summit ( 1,700 feet) in the heavy mountain undergrowth 

 of a low forest predominantly black-jack oaks, while in the under- 

 growth of the pine woods at the upper limit of the gradual slopes 

 (1,300 feet) other specimens were taken. 



This insect is known to he an Austral species of localized dis- 

 tribution. It has been recorded from Jamesburg, southward at other 

 localities in the pine barrens of New Jersey; Murphy, North Caro- 

 lina; Denmark and Spartanburg, South Carolina; Blue Ridge, 

 Chickamauga and Sand Mountain, Georgia, and Monticello, Missis- 

 sippi. Further west it is known from numerous counties in north- 

 western Arkansas, and in the upper Mississippi valley region from 

 ( ribson County, [ndiana, and Havana and Ozark Ridge, Illinois. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur-rubrum (De Geer). 



Virginia. Georgia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Rabun County, VII, 1910, (VV. T. 



H.), 1 cT. Davis), 1 d". 



Orange, VII, 21. 191.3, (R. & H.), Clayton, VII, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 



voung. Stone .Mountain, VllI, 3, 1913, (R iV: 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. iv H.), H.j, 3 o", 2 5,4 iuv. o*. 



1 Vicinity of Stone Mountain. VIII. '■'>. 



1913', (R. & H.). 1 juv. d", 3 juv. 9. 



Immature specimens of the species were found in great numbers 

 at all of the localities in \ 'irginia listed above. The insect is very 

 abundant everywhere in the upland grass-lands of Virginia, but south 

 of this region it is much less numerous and less generally distributed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.. 239 



At Stone Mountain, Georgia, adult- were occasional and tin- young 

 fairly abundant in the frequent areas of bunch-grass od the mountain. 



Specimens from high elevations in Georgia are typical of the 

 species. Those from Stone -Mountain and its vicinity show a -light 

 approach toward the southeaster!] race. 



The present form i- found southward on the Atlantic coast as 

 far a- southern Virginia, south of this it- southeastern distribution 

 does not extend down from the Appalachian- a- far a- the fall line. 

 It- range probably extend- eastward along tin Gulf Coast from 

 Texas a- far a- Alabama, tor in that State. Morse secured intermediates 

 between it and the southeastern race at Flomaton. Material 

 previously recorded by us from Newbern, North Carolina, w is really 

 intermediate and -how- a closer affinity to the southeastern race. 



Melanoplui femur-rubrum propinquus Bcudder. 



North Carolina. Cumberland [aland, VIII, 31, 1911 



Wrightsville, IX, 7. !«.»1 1. (R. a : II . I: a H . I \ 19. 



Hebardville, V. 15, 1915, II . 1 ' 

 Winter Park. IX. 7. L911, (R. .v II . Blll >'~ Island, VI, VII, 1912, .1 C 



Bradley 7 ',189. 

 L»ke Waccamaw, IX. 8, L911, I: & Macon, VII, 30 31, 1913, R. A II 

 II. . 1 ■. .". ' I 



Albany, VIII, 1. 1913, I: i II . 1 

 South Carolina. Bainbridge, IX X, 1910, .1 C. Brad- 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H ley I 



2 ' Spring Creek, VII, 1912 J < Brad- 



Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, R.), ley), 1 9. 



l i Florida 



Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H ,:i, \ yill, 1885, H 11 



• ' Ashmead), 3 ', 2 i . [Hebard Cln |; 



Vemassee, IX. I. 1911, R & II i\, \|. \<,\\ 13 \\ j Davis), 



t • •'• • 12 ', 17 



Georgia. Atlantic Beach, Mil. 24 25 1911 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, R a II R & II 2 ' 1 



-■ Vugustine, \l - 1911, <■ P 

 rybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, (R. & II . Englehardl I I'. I 



Live Oak, \ III 26 191 1, R & II 

 i.\. 1. 1911, 1; a 11 . 2 d\ 11 

 1 , : XII. 1908, II 1 Newberry, XI, 19, 1911, w I Davia 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 191 I, II I d*. 3 '. 



Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, Tampa, I, 17, 1904, II I?. 



I! All ,3 



We Mud the specimens from Wrightsville and Winter Park to be 

 intermediate between the presenl geographic race and M. femur- 

 rubrum. We have typical examples of the presenl inseel from ae 

 far north :i- Lake Waccamaw. Scudder include- specimens from 

 Pungo Bluff, North Carolina, in his typical material of the presenl 

 insect, bul these specimens are intermediates. I differences in the male 



S< 1 I'mi.v . 1910, 1911 




240 PRO< i EDINQS "i i in \> \M \n "I [April, 



genitalia, somewhat analogous to those found mAptenopedes s.sphen- 

 arioides and A. 8. clara, alone separate the present races. 



The coloration of the caudal tibia of the presenl race normally 

 varies from carrot red to flesh color, three specimens is the series 

 before us have the reddish hue nearly obsolete (maize yellow, very 

 faintly suffused with pink dorsad), while a single unusually pale 

 specimen, taken in a weedy lie]. I near the strand on Cumberland 

 [sland, ha- the caudal femora pale glaucous (light turtle green), 



shading to pale chalcedony Yellow on the proximal and distal por- 

 tions of the vmtral surface. 



The insect has very similar habits to typical femur-rvbrum t being 

 found particularly in urassy and weedy spots in the open. This 

 geographic race i- distributed over the southern coastal plain from 

 extreme southern North Carolina, through South Carolina and 

 < ieorgia, as far west as Flomaton, Alabama, and over entire peninsular 

 Florida, though scarce south of the central portion. 



Melanoplus impiger Scudder. 



Augusta, Georgia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 10 <?, 7 9, 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 

 This is the first record of the species from east of Texas. The 

 specimens here listed have been compared with the type and cotypes 

 in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner and found to be identical. In 

 size there is considerable individual variation, particularly in the male. 

 the extremes from Augusta measuring (in millimeters) as follows: 



Length of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. togmen. femur. 

 21.5 .">.l 20.2 13.6 



y 28.3 6.2 22.2 l.Vs 



24.2 5.3 20.8 14. 5 



9.. 26.8 6.1 22.7 16.5 



In coloration the Georgia individuals are less contrastingly colored 

 than Texan specimens, the pale colors being duller ochraceous and 

 the tegmina more fuscous, while the external paginse of the caudal 

 femora generally have the usual bars more or less fused into a blackish 

 fuscous area covering the dorsal section of the pagina. The color of 

 the caudal tibiae ranges as dark as dark orient blue in the glaucous 

 condition and as decidedly red as nopal red in the other type. 



The species was found in moderate numbers in a sandy area 

 scatteringly covered with scrub oak. 



Melanoplus oonfusus Scudder. 



Melanoplut minor of authors. 



Fredericksburg, Virginia, VII. 20, 1913, (R. (V- II. ), 5 o", 29. 

 Havelock, ''raven County, North Carolina, lat <• V. L907, and VI, 19-24, 1905, 

 I Sherman), 4 \ 2 9, [N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. 




1916.] NATURAL S< tENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



We find that Cahptenus minor of Scudder 93 {Melanoplus minor of 

 authors) is preoccupied by Caloptenus minor of Walker. 94 Scudder's 

 Melanoplus confusus** described from Munson's Hill and Newport, 

 Kentucky, is, however, the same as his minor and the nam'' musl be 

 used for the present species. Caudell, finding thai Scudder's name 

 minor was preoccupied^ but misquoting the original generic position 

 as Pezotettix, has recently proposed the name Melanoplus mutatus 9 * 

 for the present species; this name naturally falls in the synonymy 

 under Melanoplus confusus. 



The specimens from the latter locality listed above were kindly 

 loaned to us by Mr. Sherman, in response to our request to -• • 

 -unit- of the material on which the record of this species from eastern 

 North Carolina was based. 97 These individuals are perfectly typical 

 of confusus, and Havelock is the mosl southern locality in the easl 

 from which the species has been reported. 



At Fredericksburg the species was found in Bhorl grass on rather 

 barren hillsides bordering the valley of the Rappahannock on the south. 



Melanoplus luridus luridus (Dod 



Black Mountain, North Carolina, VIII, 7. 1912, W. Beutenmuller), 1 " 



Davis Cln.J. 

 Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, Georgia, VIII, 20, L913, J. C, Bradley . 1 d\ 



I juv. ', 1 juv. 9. 

 Tuckoluge < !reek, Rabun < Jounty, < ra., VII, 1910, W. T. I >.i\i~ . 1 juv. 9 . 



The presenl insed is widely distributed over the northern United 

 Mate-, extending in southward distribution along the Atlantic 

 -' at leasi a- far a- southern New Jersey. In the Appalachians, 

 however, the distribution "i tin' inseel 1- carried southward at con- 

 siderable altitudes to the most southern portion of these mountains, 

 a- the material recorded above demonstrates, [n size and robustness 

 the presenl individuals are much a- in theaverageof material before 

 us tion i Connecticut. The junior author's record of M. <l> l> tor from 

 that State 9 * applies wholly to the presenl insect, as do the Benior 

 author'- records of M. keeleri from New Jersey. 98 Both of these 



/• B Val II I , X\ II. p 178, L875 , 



)(Tmapt. Sal tat. I: M ■ W :■ '■'''' 1870 



Proi U. S. Nat. Mh \ • el XXII, fig. 10. 1898 W< bave 



examined the male lectotype o VI 'I'll. Kentucky, ami 



find do valid character t«i separate it from 3 The lectotype 



ind other material has shrivelled from immersion in alcohol and as a result 

 have differences in the form ol the cer i due solely to distortion 

 /■ ... i S ', 1/ i \l,l \ p 30 1915 

 erman and Brimley, Bnl. N< XXII, p 389, 1911 

 -. XI, p 184, 1910 

 I;, bn in Smith, / p l s L 1910 




242 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE tCADEMI <>K \pril. 



errors were due to the facl thai in these portions of the range 

 of typical luridus, frequenl females arc me1 with which are larger 

 and decidedly heavier than specimens of the same sex from further 

 north. This must be attributed to variation in I. luridus, for the 

 southern face differs in all important respects from such material 

 quite as decidedly as it does from typical luridus. 



The great amount of variation in the presenl species is partially 

 shown by the following table of measurements of the extremes of 

 various series before us. 



Mi asun rm nts I in millimeters). 



< laudal Length of 



Length width of Length of caudal 



of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Aweme, Manitoba (2) 1W 18-19 I 2.5-2.8 16-16.4 LO.8-11 I 



Pequaming, Michigan 1 17 2.4 13.7 in 



Cape Cod, Massachusetts^ 17 lis.:; 2.5-2.6 12.4-1:;. 1 10.2-10.5 



New Haven, Connecticut (5) L8.5-19.5 2.8-3.1 12.7-1.".. 1 11.7-12 



Stafford's Forge, N.J. 11 17-20 2.7-3 12.9-15 10.5-12 



Mount Pisgah, N. C 8 18.5-18.8*2.7-2.8 13.8-14.6 10.7-11.6 



Pinnacle Peak, Ga (1) 19.2 3 14.9 12.3 



9 9 



Aweme, Manitoba 2) 20.2-21.7 3.2 16-16.3 11-11 7 



Pequaming, Mich 8 10.0-20.3 3.1-3.4 15.9-17.8 10.8-11.6 



CapeCod, Mass 2 23.5-25 3.5-3.7 15.7-15.8 12.9-13.3 



New Haven, Conn 7 23.7-27.4 3.5-4 15.2-17 1 3 2 15.3 



Stafford's Forge, N.J... (8) 22. 5-25. 2 3.4-4 11-16 11. 8-14 



Mount Pisgah, N. C (7) 22.1-21 3.4-4 13.4-10.9 12.5-13.2 



Pinnacle Peak, Ga (3) 24.8-25 3.4-3.8 10.7-18 14.3-15.3 



It would be difficult to imagine individuals, without even racial 

 significance, differing more greatly in general appearance than do 

 the long-winged slender examples from the northwestern portion of 

 this insect's range, from the heavy shorter-winged type which is often 

 found in Connecticut and New Jersey southward through the 

 Appalachian-. This is particularly true of the female sex; north- 

 western material bearing a strong superficial resemblance to M. 

 ailanis, while the southeastern material is vastly heavier with a very 

 different general appearance. Entergradation between these types 



is, however, almosl everywhere to he found and no valid reason 

 exists for separating eastern and western material as geographic 

 races. 



Melanoplus luridus keeleri (Thomas). 



Virginia. North Carolina. 



sburg, VII 23, 1913, R. & 11 . Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & II 

 1 '. I in-. 2 juv. ". •'! juv. 9 . 



The figures in parentheses indicate the number of specimens measured 

 from each locality. 




191(3.1 



NATURAL S< [EN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



243 



Charlotte, VII. -'7. L913, R. 4 II . 



1 juv. - : " . 1 JIT 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, R. 4 H. . 

 i ?. 



Wilmington, IX. 8,*1911, R. & II 



1 9. 

 Winter Park. IX. 7. I'M 1 . R All . 



7 '.in .1 j r. 

 Wrightsville, IX. 7. 1911, R. & II . 



3 ■ 



South Carolina, 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, R. 4 II . 3 



Columbia, VII, 28, I'M.;. K. 4 II. . 



1 juv. •'. 3 ji; 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, I'M:;. I; . 



J l.l juv. \ 1 ju 

 Yemassee, IX. I. 1911, R. 4 II , 



12 /. '.»9. 



VIII, I. I'M:; H a j,,v. d\ 

 •J jir. 

 < lurrahee Mountain. VIII, 5, I'M:;. 



II ,v .:;.. •_' juv. ', 1 ju 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, I'M;. R . 



1 JUV. •*. 1 juv. } . 



Buckhead, \ III. 2, 1913, R 4 II . 



2 juv. '. 

 Augusta, \ II. 29, 1913, I: 4 II . 



2 juv. ' 5 1 1 ■ 

 M icon VII, 30 31, 1913, R. 4 II. . 



.; ', I juv. ', ! in- 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, P.M.;. I: . 



3 juv. '. 1 )W 



The present geographic race i- the southern developmenl ol 

 M.luridii8, and is found along the Atlantic coast ;i- tar north as 

 Petersburg, Virginia. In the extreme southern Appalachians it i- met 

 with up in an elevation of about 2,000 feet, above which typical 

 luridus is found. 



This southern race is distinguished from lur><lus b.s. by it- greater 

 more attenuate form and smoother structure, by the subgenital 

 plate <>!' the male 1 *« - i 1 1 ■_? longer in proportion i" it- width and 03 the 

 ventral valves of the ovipositor of the female having the distal 

 portion- much longer and less curved, in fact nearly straight. 

 Scudder gave the character of the subgenital plate in In- description 

 eeleri, but wrrongly contradicted himself in In- key. 



\ much greater amount of genital variation, particularly in the 

 shape <>i' the c< srci, is found in the present species than is usual in th<- 

 genus Melan&plus. There is also much variation in -1/'' and co 

 t ion. The conclusion that the species increased regularly in size in 

 southward distribution must be somewhal modified, tor although 



Tybee Island, IX. 2, 1911, II.), 3 d\ 



-' 

 Isle of Bope, IX. 3, 1911, R 4 II 



n •.:>;. 1 juv. \ 1 in. 

 Sandfly, IX. 3, 1911, R. 4 H . 1 ' 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, R. 4 H.), 4 \ 



1 i 

 Waynesville. J. < ' Bradley .19. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, I'M I. II . 6 \ 



2 

 Si Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



1; a II . 5 .:;.. 1 in 

 Cumberland Island VIII, 31, 1911, 



1; All .1 -.19. 

 BiUy's Island, IX. XII. 23, 1911, 



J. C. Bradlej . 2 cr\ 

 Albany, VIII, 1. L913, R 4 II 



1 juv 



Creek, VII, VIII. L912-13, 

 .1 I Bradley), 1 juv. f, 1 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VI 1 1. '_>:.. 1911, R 4 



II . 5 .1 ; XI, 5, t'.Mi. \\ T 



Dm VI- ,2 .1 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, R & 



II ,10 ',8 

 Daytona, XI. 11. 1911, <■ P. Engle- 



hardl ,2 , [B. 1 

 Live Oak, \ III. 26, L911, R. 4 II . 



2 ■ 1 . . 



Pi ■■ \. u) \m Sci Phii v 1907 p 297, ; 




24 I PBO< ii DINGS "i i mi. M \i>i.\n 01 [April, 



this is true to a moderate degree, the large amount of material now 

 at hand shows thai environmental differences have a more decided 

 effect. The table of measurements gives the normal dimensions 



of material from different portion- of the range of this race: certain 

 series before us are decidedly smaller than is usual, this differentia- 

 tion being apparently due to environmental conditions, this size reduc- 

 tion is shown by material from Macon, St. Simon - - and Cumberland 

 Island-. Georgia, and to a less extent in the -eric- from Tybee 

 [sland, Georgia. In these series males average about 22 mm. and 

 females about 26 mm. in length. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



( laudal Length of 



Length width ni Length of caudal 



of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Winter Park, N. C (6) 1<B 23.5-25.7 2.9-3 18-19.4 12.8-14.8 



Currahee Mountain, Ga. (8 20.1-23.8 3-3.3 18-19.2 13.6-14 



Jesup.Ga t 22.3-23 2.8-3 18.2-19.9 13.7-14.3 



Atlantic Beach, Fla (10)19.4-27.2 2.8-3.4 18-21.4 13-15.1 



Miami, Fla (13)23-24.9 3.1-3.3 21.2-22.8 15-15.3 



Dallas, Texas .. (1) 25 3.3 20 15.2 



Houston. Tex (1) 25.6 3.3 19 14.8 



9 9 



Winter Park. X. (' 11 28.2-32.5 3.8-4.1 20-22.3 15-17.7 



Currahee Mountain, Ga 3 25.8-28.7 4-4.2 m 1-21.7 15.8-16.8 



Jesup.Ga ..(4) 26.3-30.3 3.8-4.6 20.4-24 15.4-17.1 



Atlantic Beach, Fla (8) 29-29.9 4-4.5 21. 7-2:-! 17.5-18.2 



Miami, Fla 13)29.6-35.5 4 1-4.4 23.5-26 17.3-18.8 



Houston, Tex (1) 30.7 4.3 21.4 16.9 



The synonymy of Scudder's M. deletor with the present insect has 

 been discussed and established by the authors. 103 



Many of the specimens here recorded are very dark in general 

 coloration, with the lighter areas of the caudal femora cinnamon color 

 and very striking; the series from Winter Park, North Carolina, 

 composed wholly of such specimen-, is particularly brilliantly marked. 

 A few pale brown specimens have the markings of the caudal femora 

 subobsolete and >usgest in appearance large and very heavy specimens 

 of -1/. ft mur-rvbrum. 



Melanoplus furcatus Scudder. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, VT-VTI, L912; .Ionian'.-. Billy's [sland, Ga., VIII, 31, 

 IX. 1-5. 1913, 'J. C. Bradley . 1 o", L913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv.9. 



49,2j.r. Honey [sland, Ga., VI, L912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 jnv. cf. 



102 The Qgures in parentheses indicate the number of specimens measured 



from each locality. 



101 Pur,. Ai \x>. Nat. Sci. Phtla., 1907, p. 29fi, (1907 




1916.] NATURAL B( IIA- BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



In addition to the above specimens we have before us the pre- 

 viously unique male and female, from Jacksonville, Florida, on which 

 the species was based. The Okeefenokee females are of similar 

 size to the Jacksonville one, but the single Billy's Esland male is 

 somewhat smaller than the type, its measurements being: length 

 of body, 30 mm.; length of pronotum, 7.3; length of tegmen, I 

 length of camlal femur. 17.8. In coloration there is considerable 

 individual variation in the pale ana-, our female having these more 

 ochraceous than the other-, while one of the same sex has the same 

 area- appreciably rufous brown. The male and one of the females 

 from Billy's Island were taken in coitu. The single immature 

 example from Billy's I -land taken in June, and thai from Honey Island 

 taken the same month, are in the -a me in-tar. while t ho-, • from Billy's 



Island taken in July and Jordan'-. August .'!1 . are in a more advanced 

 stage. The forking of the male cerci is indicated in all of the young, 

 although the difference between the two bag - in this reaped 

 very appreciable. The July immature specimen is quite generally 

 blackish, but the June and August ones are of a strongly contrasted 



pattern with the pale area- on the dorsum of the h> ad and pronotum 



quite rufescent. 



Melanoplus clypeatus Scudder. 



Sandfl; - I\. 3, 1911, I: & II 2 



This rare Bpecies was found in the heaviest undergrowth in gray- 

 bark pine wood-, in more or less swampy situations. Specimens 

 were very scarce, even when thorough search was made for them. 

 The male-, when disturbed, jumped or flew several feet, hut the 

 female- were more Bluggish. 



In -i/.e the series before us, three males and five female-, shows 



little individual variation, while in color we find one condition much 

 paler and mote ochraceous than another. This pale condition ig 



represented by one of the original "Georgia" males, now in the 



Hebard Collection ex Bruner, a female from Thomasville, I 



and one of the same sex from Sandfly. 'I'll' of paleness of the 



anal area of th. Nomina l- about equal in this Species and/'//" 



varying somewhal in each. Tin' female- of these two species are 



rather difficult to distinguish, hut the more robusl and leSG elon 



caudal femora of clypeatw will serve to separate the two. 



Sandfly and Thomasville, Georgia, are the onlj calities from 



which the Bpecies i- known, it originally having been described from 



rgia without more exact information. 



17 > 




246 proceedings OF nii: \< \m \n oi [April, 



Melanoplus femoratus (Burmeiater). 



1/ -ykmd, Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & II 



Glen Echo, \ 11. 10, 191 I. [B . l ' - 9 ■ 



Washington. 1> <'. Mil. 6, l \ Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 HebardCln.]. 



Virginia. Vorth Carolina. 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, II ,6 ' Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, R & II . 



Fredericksburg, \ 11. 20, 1913, (R & 



11 . 2 ' Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913 R & II . 



19. 



The range of this species is now known to extend eastward to the 



coasl in Virginia (Virginia Beach), bu1 in North Carolina it has not 

 been taken lower than Raleigh, while in Georgia it is only known 

 fnun elevated localities in the northern part of the State (SajE d 

 Mountain and Blue Ridge). 



ddie specie- was SCaTCe everywhere and was found in the moist 



situations usually frequented, while at Fredericksburg it was also 



encountered on rather barren hillsides. 

 Melanoplus punctulatus punotulatus (Scudder). 



Maryland. I irginia. 



Cabin John Run, VIII, 1907, (W. Pal- Falls Church, X, L3, I d" , 1 9, [U.S. 



mer), 1 juv. •'. [U. S. N. M.|. N. M.|. 



Near Plummer'a island, X, 31, 1915, Georgia 



\\ si, „„.;,„ oak woods, few pines), Tll „ mpson - s MillS) x , L909, (H. A. All- 



' j ■ ' • ■ f ; ; .-;■ .'; \\\ , . • tv ard), I - , [U. S. N. M.|. 



Washington, Districl <>t < olumbia, IX, /( ' l 



23, 1908, (A. N. Caudell), 1 d\ 



I S X. M.|. 



Through the kindness of Mr. Franklin Sherman Jr., we have 

 been able to examine previously recorded material of this form from 

 Blantyre(IX, L906; R. Woglum, ] cf)and Raleigh (X, 1907 XI, 1908; 

 1'. Sherman Jr., 1 cf , 19), North ( Carolina. The Blantyre specimen 

 is perfectly typical punctulatus, while the Raleigh material shows a 

 faint approach toward jnnicluhilus arboreus in the slightly greater 

 thickening of the tubercle of the male subgenital plate. The Raleigh 

 specimens are. however, clearly true punctulatus. We have made a 

 careful study of all the available material of punctulatus and nrbo- 

 reus, some thirty-five specimens in all, and are convinced that 

 Scudder's suggestion thai arboreus might be only a geographic race 

 of punctulatus is correct. Aside from the larger size of the -out hern 

 specimens, the only constant, easily appreciated character which 

 we can find to separate the two forms is, that in /;. punctulatus the 

 tubercle of the male subgenital plate is smaller, less produced and 

 thinner, while in p. arboreus the same structure is larger, more distinctly 

 produced and thicker and more inflated. The metazona of the pro- 




L916. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. '-M7 



notum, particularly in the male sex, is apparently more transverse 

 and less distinctly longitudinal in p.arbon us than in p. punctulatus, and 

 the caudal margin of the same area is more broadly obtuse-angulate. 

 The exact form of the male cerci shows so much variation in the 

 available male- of punctulatua punctulatus, thai we do uo1 feel jusl ified 

 in attempting to give the differences in this structure between the 

 series of the typical form and the very few male individuals of />. 

 arboreus. The form of the subgenital plate, however, is quite con- 

 stanl as far as the material before us goes. 



Tin- following measurements (in millimeters) -how the regular 

 increase in size southward in typical punctulatus and t he race arbm 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



M. p. punctulal body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



issi Point, Ontario 18 5 t.6 L6 I LI. 3 



Bellasylva, Pennsylvania 21 .5 5 18 12 



Blantyre, \ T . C 24.6 5.3 22 13 3 



Raleigh, N. - 24 5 5 17 13 



9 



De Grassi Point, Onl 29 5 5 6 18.8 n 9 



Bellasylva, Pa -"7 6 5 •", L9 .; 12 8 



1 2 I 6 20 I I I 



Virginia 21.3 14.8 



Raleigh, N I 6 I '-'l .9 l I 9 



M i>. Ill-Ill, II U.S. 



Drummond, Va 29 I 26 2 15 



Dallas, Texas J7 .' 6.2 22 3 15 



Lake Drummond, Va 27 I 19.5 15 3 



Drummond, Va 8 9 30 19 3 



Southern Pines, N. C 38.7 8 5 18 5 



U alton County, I lorida 35 5 8 2 26 18 I 



The distribution of typical punctulatus, in the east a1 least, seems 

 hi be restricted to <h.' Boreal, Transition and Upper Austral zones, 

 intergrading with p. arboreus, which i- an Austroriparian form 

 The Blantyre and Raleigh records are the mosl austral known in us 

 from the eastern Stat< 



Melanoplui punotulatua arbonvi- 



i . dley), l ]\i\ ii '• 



I I >rummnnd, I >ismal Swamp •'"'' ' '" I 



H. S Barber . I 2 ,/„. 



\\ 1 1 1 « . 1 1 < 'mint \ 1 1 i k ■ 1 1 from stomach 

 of turkey killed in pine fore t), 19, 

 fountain, \ III U. S. Is. M 



ibdomen greatly extended in 'In- specimen. 

 Ibdomen greatly shrunken in il>^ specimen. 




248 PBOCEEDING8 "I mm \. \i>i:.\n OF (April. 



These records and thai from Southern Pines, North Carolina, 

 given by Sherman and Brimley, 10 ' of which the material is m>\\ 

 ire as, are the only ones known for the race from easl of the 

 Mississippi. The Lake Drummond male is perfectly typical of the 

 form, one of the females is very small, in addition with its abdomen 

 :iy contracted, hut we should consider it. referable to p.arboreus, 

 while the other female is extremely large, in fad on the whole the 

 large-t specimen from the east we have seen. It is possible that 

 difference of environmenl is responsible for the variation in these 

 two females, or the occasional instability of a form near the margin 



of its range. The Dismal Swani]) locality being so peculiar in i1 



representing nearly the extreme Austroriparian districl in the easl 

 well as a strongly marked accentuation of the same type of environ- 

 ment, we may find an explanation of this variation in the supposition 

 that the smaller individual would represent the normal-sized insect 

 for the geographic position of the locality, considering the regular 

 increase in size southward of the species, while the largei oneS would 

 represent a decided response to the abnormally pronounced ten- 

 dencies of the region. 



The Stone Mountain individual is quite suffused with rufescent, 

 which strongly colors the pale areas. It was taken in a dusty road 

 bordered on each side by heavy pine woods. 



Paroxya atlantica atlantica Seudder. 



1898. Paroxya scudderi Blatchley, Can. Ent., XXX, p. 59. [Millers, Lake 

 County and Tolleston, Indiana.] 



North Carolina. Yemassee, IX. I, 1911, (R. & II 



Weldon, VII, 24, L913, (It. & H.), 10o",8$. 



I juv. 9. Georgia. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), * 



j ^ Iybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 4 <?, 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.) f 2 ?• 

 j q • Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (It. & H.), 2 <f, 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), T 19 - TV , 1Q11 m .„. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 10 <j\ 



Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & 29; XII. 1908 II .), 1 



.1 ,7, Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 2 o*, 



a,J > ° ' 2 9. 



South Carolina. Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & II R &H . 2 d», 19. 



\:>, c^,69. Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



30, L91 I. W Stone . 3 d\ EL), 1 juv. 9. 



1 juv. a", [A. X. S. P.]. Mixon's Eammock, Okeefen 



Manning, V, 23 and 28. mil. (W. Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 cf, 19.. 



He), 2 o", 4 juv. o", [A. N. S. P.]. Billy's Island, VI, VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Sullivan Island, IX. 5, 1911, (R. A: Bradley), 5 o", 49, 3 juv. o", 



II . 1 ■•, 19. 1 juv. 9. 



>o( i XXII, p. 389, (1911). . 




1916.] NATURAL S( [BNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Bomerville, \ III. 27. 1911, R. & II.), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, L911, R. & 



I '. II . 9 J 



Albany, VIII, 1. I'M:;. (R. & II.), 1 J, Pablo Beach, IX. 5, -'7. 1913, W. T. 

 19,1 juv. cf. Davia ,:io , ,3 9. 



_ , Indian River, T. .1. Priddey .19, 

 Florida. Bebard Cln.]. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & II . 

 1 '; IX. 7. 1913, XI. 5, L911, W. T. 

 is .1 ',2 



In conjunction with the above material, we have carefully studied 

 the very large series of the species already recorded ami in our col- 

 lections, representing Localities from [ndiana and New Jersey to 

 extreme soul hern Florida. 



Examination of paratypes of P, s<-u<l<l<ri and study of Blatchley's 

 original description of that insect show that the most important 

 characters given by Blatchley to separate scudderi from "//<" 

 are Bize, antenna! ami cereal length ami shape of the furcula. The 

 firsl three of these characters are shown by the appended table of 

 measurements to be decidedly variable in the species, and too unstable 

 to he considered of even racial significance, while the shape of the 

 furcula i- shown by the material before ua to afford no recognizable 

 differenci 



Blatchley's species consequently falls, for although the presenl 

 insecl shows thai other geographic races are probably in the pr- 

 of formation, none <»f these, excepting /'. ". paroxyoides, has as yel 

 hed a sufficienl differential development to be conscientiously 

 gnized. An effort to describe the more pronounced of these 

 formative races would only create unnecessary confusion, Many 

 other species, among which are Clinocepkalus elegans, Chortophaga 

 data and PardaUyphora phamicoptera, demonstrate incipienl 

 racial developmenl which ha- not as ye1 reached a stage where such 

 can he properly recognized ami geographic race- described. 



MeasuremenU (in millimeters) of extrei 



Length Length of Length "i Length of 

 cf ol bo antenna pronotum. tegmi 



17 17 I 8.5-8.8 I J l i. 11-12.2 



lo I 6 11-11.2 



We 20 | 21 7 10 13 2 1 7 :. I 13 J I I 7 



2 1 . 8-24 10.7-11.5 14.5-17.4 



If. 21.2 11— 1 5.8 15.3-18 



Mil,, 15 7 19 8.4-10 II 13 




PRO< i.i DINGS OF THE \< \m \n 01 [April, 



Width of 

 C? tegmen. 



Lake ( 'ounty, [ndiana 2 2 



Stafford's Forge, New Jersey .2. 2 '_'. I 



Winter Park. N. C ...2.7 3 



Jesup, Ga :; 3 2 



Atlantic Beach, Fla 2.8 :; r, 



Miami. Fla '-' I 2 I 



The females show a similar variability, which demonstrates 'hat. 

 examples from the mosl northern localities in the distribution of the 

 insecl are smaller, with shorter tegmina and wings, the increase in 

 -\/> in the southward distribution reaching its maximum in southern 

 Georgia and northern Florida. Southward in Florida a considerable 

 decrease in size, accompanied by a general attenuation of form, is 

 found, specimens from the mainland of extreme southern Florida 

 being the smallest and mosl attenuate of any before us, with pro- 

 portionately the longest tegmina and wings. A well-defined \ 

 graphic race, P. a. paroxyoides, occupies the Florida Keys. 



Although dark individuals arc present in all of the series before us, 

 we find the material from the coast of the Carolinas and Georgia 

 tn be more yellow in general coloration than is usual in specimens 

 from other portions of the range of the species. Such specimens 

 were noticed to he particularly brilliant in life, and showed a very 

 close parallelism in color and markings to Melanoplus wustralis, with 

 which insect the presenl species was often found. In life Melanoplus 

 australis i- one of the most brilliantly colored species of that very 

 large genus. 



This insect prefers moist spots, usually iti forest undergrowth 

 or on tic margins of swamps and marshes. It was found common 

 in an open glade covered with grasses over a foot in height (Florence), 

 particularly in the drier portions of the salt-marsh margin (Tybee 

 Island), about the edges of a wet depression in pine woods (Winter 

 Park. Jesup), at the firsl of these localities associated with Melanoplus 

 decants, and in a heavy tangle of vegetation in a cabbage palmetto 

 "hammock" - Atlantic Beach . The species was occasional in swamp 

 ilong a heavily wooded "branch" (Fayetteville) and scarce' 

 in strand plant- (Cumberland tsland),in low bog vegetation through 

 the long-leaf pine wood- (Homerville), in low vegetation and 

 • - mar -wamp (Mixon's Hammock) and in a cypress swamp 

 (Jacksonville). 



Th<- present species is known on the Atlantic coast from Jamesburg 

 and Lakehurst, New Jersey, southward to the extreme southern por- 




1916. 



NATURAL S< LEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



251 



t i < »ii of the mainland of Florida. It- westward distribution does n<»t 

 extend as far inland as the fall line, but south of this barrier in < leorgia 

 and the Gulf States and along the Gulf coasl it is found wesl of the 



area treated in the present paper and has been taken in the Mississippi 

 valley region within half a mile of the shores of Lake Michigan. 



Paroxya clavuliger (S srville). 



Pan of Thomas and authors. 



Washington, I). < . \ III. L883, 2 d\ 

 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Petersburg, VII, 22, L913, I:. & II. , 



1 juv -', 1 jir. 



Newport News, IX. L6, L907, I'.. 

 Long . 1 : . A. X. S. P.]. 



North Carolina. 

 ville, IX. 9, 1911, R. & H.), 

 2 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7. 1911, R. & II. . 

 2 



Buckhead, VIII, _\ 1913, I: & II . 



J 

 Augusta, VII, L".*. 1913, I; & II. . 



1 jm 



W.-.nn Springs, VII, Is. 1913, -I I 



Bradley . I 

 Tybee [aland, IX. 2, 1911, II 



1 - . 



Jesup, IX. l. 1911, R & II . l 



2 ju-. 



Hebardville, V, 15 1915, II . 1 small 



juv. ". 2 -mall juv 

 Mixon's Hammock, V, 16, 1915, H 



I small Me 



Billy's [sland, VI, 1912, .1. C 

 ley . I 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, IX. 1913, \\ II' 



-' 

 Atlantic Beach, \ "III. 24, 1911, R & 



II . _' 



Pablo Beach, IX. 27, 1913, \\ T 

 Davis . 1 . . 



It is much to be remitted thai Serville's description and figures 

 of Acridium clavuliger 101 have so long been overlooked. There is 

 not the leasl doubt thai the presenl insecl is the species which he 

 described, and Thomas' Caloptenus fioridianus, described in 1874 

 has consequently been placed in the synonymy here. 



Blatchley did doI compare his I', hoosieri with the presenl species, 

 to which it i- very closely related. /'. clavuliger differs in having the 

 furcula less heavy and usually more widely separated, and the sub- 

 genital plate with the lateral portions <il the caudal margin decidedly 

 less elevated; still other differential characters appear to exist. 



The material here recorded fully I car- <>wt the authors' previous 

 : > i « » i i that the pn-ent species shows :i marked increase in 

 southward in it- distribution. 109 The distribution of the species is, 

 to a certain discontinuous, as it is scarcely ever mel with 



■'t in boggy, swampy or marshy surroundings; it i- particularly 

 partial to Buch locations when situated in the open or along the 

 I Mirder- <>t' woods. 



// pi XIV, h> i la l.. 18 10 



'« Bull l\ 8. Geol. and < 



. ID \ M >• i I'lili \ . I 




252 PROCEEDINGS 0] mi \< LDBM1 <>K [April, 



The insecl i< found everywhere in favorable situations on those 

 portions of the coastal plain treated in the present paper. It is 

 uncommon <>n the Piedmonl plateau and in thai region has been 

 found only at Appomattox, Virginia, and at Buckhead, Stone 



Mountain and Warm Springs, Georgia. 



Aptenopedes sphenarioides sphenarioides Soudder. 



1877. Aptenopedes rufovittata Scudder, Proc. Boat. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX. 

 p. 85. In part. i [Fori R I. Florida.] 



gia. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & E.), 



Jesup, IX. 1. 1911, iK. ,v II', 1 ', - j'iv 9. 



19, 1 juv. 9; XII, 1906, I! .), 3 ', Bainbndge, IX-X, L910, '.I. < . Brad- 



2 9.1 iuv. ley), l 9. 



Brunswick, VII, 30, 1911, II ,6 ',39 . Florida. 



Simon's Island, VII, 30 1911, Jacksonville, Nil I, 25, 1911, (R. <v 



I; & II , 1 juv. 9. H. i. I \ I 9 : VIII, 1885, (W. II. 



Cumberland Island, VII, Ml, 1911, Ashmead), :: f, 2 9. 1 juv. 9, 



l: a II . 5 \ l iuv. cT. [Hebard Cln.]; XI, 3, mil, (W. T. 



Suwannee Creek, VII, 28, 1911, ill. .V Davis) 7 d\ 6 9 . 



II . 2 juv.9. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 21. 1911, I: & 



Billy's Island. VI, 1912, .1 C. Brad- II. . 32 . 89, 1 iuv. o", 3 juv.9. 



ley), :; '. I juv.9; XI, :>. 1913, Pablo Beach, IX. :>. 1913, \\ T. 



.1 C. Bradley), 29, 1 juv. o", Davis), 2 <?, 2 9, 1 juv d*, 1 ji 



2 juv.9. Live Oak, VIII. 26, 1911, 'I!. A II . 



Jordan's, Okeefenokee Swamp, VIII, 1 9 , 1 juv. d", 1 juv. 9 . 



31, I'M.;. .1. C. Bradley), 19. Daytona, XI, 11, 1911, (G. P. Engle- 



Bomerville, VII, 27, 1911, (R. & B . liar.lt >, 1 tf, 19, [B. I.]. 

 1 J, 19,1 juv. d", 1 juv. 9. 



Disassociation of the sexes caused Scudder to describe three, 

 instead of two, species at the time he erected the presenl genus. 

 \it>T describing sphenarioides , he described rufovittata, and then 

 aptera from a single female. The second species is a combination 

 of four adult, males of aptera and three immature females of sphena- 

 rioides. We here -elect as single type of A. rufovittata, the only 

 immature female of the type series of thai species in the Scudder 

 ( '<>1 lection (the oilier-, from the ( lornell University, having also been 

 seen by us), and in consequence we place rufovittata in the synonymy 

 under sphi narioides. 



The specimens from Pablo Beach .are the largest we have seen of 

 the present form, being in length as follow-: male- 17 21.8, females 

 24.5 28 mm. This size is greatly exceeded in the southern race, 

 .1. .-. clara. The smallest individuals before us are from Brunswick 

 (male 15.4, female 20 mm.), the specimens from Jesup taken in 

 1 ). cember are also unusually small. 



In the latitude of southern Georgia the species appears adult in 

 the largest aumbers not earlii r than late August, and is found numer- 

 ous in both adult and immature condition throughout the winter. 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



It is our opinion that although the majority of adults appear in the 

 late fall, there are young reaching maturity in every month of the year. 

 The distribution of the presenl insed is known to extend from 

 Savannah. Georgia, westward to Bainbridge, < ieorgia and De Funiak 

 Springs, Florida, and southward to central Florida, where the southern 

 race, .1 . s. clara, takes it- place. 



Aptenopedes aptera Scudder. 



Georgia. Florida. 



Jesup, IX. 1. 1911, K. & II. . :. \ Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, R. & II , 



-' . :; '.:;,. l juv. 9 ; VIII. L885, 



Brunswick, VIII. 30, 1911, H . I d\ W II ^shmead), 1 ',2 I . [Hebard 



Cln.]; XI, 5, L911, W . T. Davis), 



Cumberland Island, \ III. 31, I'M 1. 19. 



I:. & II , 1 ju Atlantic Beach, XIII. 21. 25, 1911, 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, R. & I!. All ,3 ', 7 ju 



II. . _' '. 1 . . I juv. ', I jui Live Oak, \ III. 26, 191 1, R. a II. , 



Bomerville, VIII. 27, 1911, R. A l \ 



II. . 1 ', 7 juv. ', 7 jm Newberry, IX, 18, 1911, (W.T.Davis), 



Si \I irys, III •■■ l\ . 1896, < >. Bai - 1 . 



I Q. [M. C. 7. Archer, 1882, 1 . . [Hebard Cln.]. 



Tlii- insed appears earlier in the year than does .1. s/>h<ii<ir 

 though in different years it- appearance seems to vary, a- in mid- 

 Augusl of L905 adults were found oumerous in aorthern Morula. 

 while in late Augusl of 1911 adults were few bul young numerous 

 in the same region. 



This species, like .1. sphenarioides, is found widely distributed 

 throughout the pine woods over it- entire range; in Georgia ami 

 northern Florida these pines being usually of the long-leaf Bpei 

 while in southern Florida they are the antillean pine, Pinus caribcea. 

 \ ; Brunswick it was found occasional in tin- adult condition on 

 palmetto Bats, while at Homerville immature individuals were 

 common bul adults rare in a low area in the pine woods overgrown 

 with a low heather-like plant. Kalmia hirsuta. 



The presenl insed is known from Jesup to Homerville, Georgia, 

 southward over peninsular Florida and on the I Big Pine I 



TETTIGONIID^E. 

 Arethaea phalangium 



V. 1".. 1915, II : undergrowth in pine woods), I \u\ 



This very scarce species is further represented in the 

 under consideration by a ~i nuil- ■ male from Augusl i a, which 



specimen has recently been Btudied in a revisionary paper on the 

 presenl genus 



ind Heb XL, pp. I 16, l 17, I 18, 191 t 




25 1 PEOI l i DINGS <u THE K \hi\n 01 | \|>ril. 



Stilpnochlora marginella (Serville). 



Sanford, Florida, XI, 28 1911, G P. Englehardt), 1 9, [B. I.|. 



Fori Myers and Lake Worth, Florida, are the mosl northern local- 

 ities previously recorded for this species. 



SCUDDERIA StAl. 



We have recently fully treated the material of this genus in the 

 present collections. 111 The localities for the collections here bi 

 studied arc as follows: 



Scudderia curvicauda laticauda Brunner. 



Typical material. Wilmington and Winter Park. North Carolina; 

 Yemassee, South < !arolin i ; Mixon's Hammock. Billy's [sland, Albany 

 and Spring ('reck. Georgia, and Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach, 

 Florida. 



Material approaching ; N. ciirricuurfa *.*. Petersburg and Orange, 

 Virginia; Weldon, Charlotte and Fayetteville, North Carolina; Spar- 

 tanburg and ( lolumbia, South Carolina, and Jasper, ( lurrahee .Moun- 

 tain, vicinity of Stone Mountain. Warm Springs and Macon, Georgia. 



Scudderia texensis Sausaure and Pictet. 



Wrightsville and Winter Park. North Carolina; Yemassee, South 

 Carolina; Tybee Island. Jesup, Billy's [sland, Honey Island, Tifton, 

 Albany and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach 

 and Live ( >ak, Florida. 



In addition we now have 1 juv. d\ Manning, South Carolina, V, 

 28 191 h W. Stone), [A. N. S. P.J. 



Scudderia furcata furcata Brunner. 



Washington, Districl of Columbia; Fayetteville, Wrightsville and 

 Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Yemassee, South Carolina; Rome, 

 Stone Mountain, Isle of Hope, Albany and Spring Creek, Georgia, 

 and Jacksonville, Florida. 



A female of this species from Highlands, North Carolina, is now 

 before us, Which specimen has keen incorrectly recorded as S.cuneata 

 by Sherman and Brimlev. 



Scudderia cuneata Moi 



Fayetteville. Lake Waccamaw and Wrightsville, North Carolina; 

 Florence, South Carolina; Sandfly, Brunswick and Billy's [sland, 

 Georgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



i" T ans. Am. Km. Soc, XL, pp. 271 31 I. 191 I 




l'JlG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Symmetropleura modesta Brunner. 



North Carolina. Florida. 



record, 1 ". [Hebard CIn.]. Fernandina, W. II. Finn , 1 



Raleigh, \ III. 8, 1905, 1 ; . [U. S. I - \ M 



X. M Atlantic Beach, \ III. 25, 1911, I: 



i in. 

 Billy's Man. I. VI, I'M.'. .1. c. Brad- Crescenl City, VI, 1 ', [U.S. N. M 



ley) 1 cf. Enterprise, V, 25, 1 ', [U. S. N. M 



Bpring Creek, VI, 7 23, 1911, .1. C. 

 Bradley), L' '. 



Quite decided size variation i- shown by the material of this very 

 scarce species now before us. The specimens from southeastern 

 Georgia and northwestern Florida arc exceptionally large, m condition 

 which has been noted in material of numerous older species from that 

 region. 



The species was found in reeds in a marshy spol and was beaten 

 from bayberry bushes, Myrica cerifera, at Atlantic Beach, while the 

 specimen from Crescenl City was found on orange trees. 



The known distribution of the species is considerably extended 

 by the above records. 



AMBLYCORYPHA StAl. 



The material of this genus found in the present collections has 



recently been fully studied by the author-."-' The localities for the 

 presenl collection- are as follow-: 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia 



Weldon, North < Carolina. 



Amblycorypha floridana floridana Rehn and Hebard. 



Typical material. Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach, Florida. 



Materia] intermediate between floridana -.-. ;m<l floridana carinata. 

 Jacksonville, Florida: Billy's Island, Honey Island, Spring < Ireek and 

 Isle of Hope. Georgia, and Yemassee :,,|, l Ashley Junction, South 

 ( larolina. 



The following specimens now before us probably represenl the 

 immature condition of 3uch intermediates between the races of the 

 presenl spe< ■ 



Hebardvilli i i, V, 15, 1915, H. ; undergrowth in pine wooi 



1 jnv. cT. 



Mixon's Hammock, Ga., V, 16, 1915, H.; hammock undergrowth), 



1 jnv. . 



Amblycorypha floridana carinnt.. I 



Petersburg, Virginia, and Silver Lake, Georgia. 



\l pp 31.1 340, 191 t 




PRO< I i DINGS 01 i in: U \m.\iy 01 [April, 



Amblycorypha uhleri 



Fredericksburg, Virginia : Weldon, < roldsboro and Lake Waccamaw, 

 North Carolina; Columbia and Yemasset, South ( Jarolina : < Iurrab.ee 

 Mountain, Toccoa, Jasper, Buckhead, Stone Mountain, Augusta, Isle 

 <>i Hope, Sandfly, Brunswick, Macon, Albany and Spring Creekj 

 ( leorgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



Amblycorypha rotundifolia rotundifolia (Scudder), 



Typical material. Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Tuckoluge 

 Creek in Rabun County. Toccoa and Currahee Mountain. Georgia. 



In addition we now have 1 rj\ Black Mountain, North Carolina, 



VII, 1912, W. Beutenmtiller), [Davis Cln.]. 



Intermediates between rotundifolia s.s. and rotundifolia parvipennis. 



Winter Park, North < 'arol'ma. and Macon and Warm Springs, < leorgia. 



Microcentrum rhombifolium (Sausaur 



Delaware. Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, L913, (R. , 



ware, 1 9, [A. X. S. P.]. 1 <?• 



(,'< orgia. 



J/ " / '' // "'" / - Austell, VIII, 27, 1910, 1 <?, 



Chestertown, VIII, 2-23, 1899-1909, StateCln] 



I G. Vanatta), 6 f, 59, [A. X. j,|,. f Elope, IX, 3, L911 (R. & B.), 



S. I* 



1 o", 19 



I irginia. Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 

 Near Washington, I). <'.. IX, 2-X, 1, I: & II. j, 1 o*. 



1883, 1 o", 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. Spring Creek, (J. C. Bradley), 19, 

 South Carolina. [da. Stale Cln.). 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & II. i, 1 9. 



At Florence this insed was taken in an open area covered with 

 ■■ -. while al Ashley Junction and Isle of Bope it was beaten 

 from heavy undergrowth in pine woods, and secured in the same 

 fashion from bayberry, Myrica cerifera, on Cumberland Island. 



Microcentrum retinerve (Bi 



Maryland. Virginia. 



Plummer's Island, \ I II. 28 to X, Near Washington, D.C.,X, 13, 1883, 

 13, 190410 1906, Caudell; McAtee; 1 o", 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Fi fher . L9 S \. M.|. g - fl 



Washington, District of Columbia, IX, _ , .,.,, •' ,, ,, .. . 



24 to \! 3 L906 and L907, (A. X. rhompson's Mils, X, 1910, (II. A. 

 Caudell), 3 - N. M , Allard .1 , [1 . .v X. M.J. 



Bainbridge, J. < , Bradley), 1 9, 

 [Ga. State Cln.]. 



Pterophylla camellifolia camellifolia (Fabriciue). 



CyrlophyUus perspiciUaius of authors. 



1906. CyrlophyUus eloru, ideU, Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, XIV, figs. 



k). [Crawford and Fountain Counties, Indiana.] 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



257 



Maryland. 

 Chestertown, VIII, 24, E. I r. Van- 



atta , 19, [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Plummer'a [sland, VII, 16 fco X. 1. 



L906 to 1915. [Barber; Schwarz; 



( !lemons; Fisher; McAtee), 9 c\ 



99, [U. S. X. M.]. 



D ■ ,. i olurribia. 

 Washington, IX. L5. L909, (H. E. 



Ausherman), 1 o", [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Piney Branch, VIII, L5, 1905, D II. 



Clemons), l ', [U. S. X. M.]. 



North Carolina. 11 ' 

 Blowing Rock, 1902, J. Willar), 1 9, 



\. X. S. p.]; VIII, 1907, I'. Sher- 

 man, Jr.), 1 8 , [X. < '. State Depl 

 \_ I. 



Winston, VI II. 1906, (R. S. Wolgum . 

 1 9, [N. i ' State Dent. Agr.]. 



Alamance County, VII, L905, 1 

 Sherman), 1 9, [X. ( '. State Depl 

 Acr.]. 



< ;< orgia. 



Mountain City, VIII. i;i. L913, .1 I 

 Bradley . 2 ». 



Thompson's Mills, (H. A. Allan]), 1 o", 

 [U.S. N. \: 



The name Pterophylla has Itch revived by W. V. Kirby, 1 " and an 

 examination of the original place of publication of the name 116 shows 

 thai ii was proposed by W. Kirby for five species, one of which was 

 Locusla camellifolia of Fabricius. 116 W. F. Kirby has selected this 

 species as the type of the genus. 



The names camellifolia and perspicillata, one based on the female 

 and tlic other on the male sex, were proposed by Fabricius on the 

 same page, the former having line priority. In consequence it is 

 qi ct ssary to use the oame standing first. 



Pterophylla camellifolia intermedia CCaudell). 

 ' frtophyUus intermedin* of Caudell. 



Examination of the types and a single male before us from South 

 >lina leads us to believe thai Caudell's intt rmedius is the southern 

 rare of camellifolia. The specimen from South Carolina is nearly 

 intermediate in character between the two conditions, the ventral 

 fork of the cercus no1 l>iinL r as short, and the mesa! production n<>t as 

 decided, as in tin- types of this race. In this specimen the tegmina 

 are long and the enlargemenl of the <li-tal portion of the subgenital 

 plate is greater than in camellifolia itesl width 2.6 mm. . 



[n the heavily forested areas bordering the rivers of the southeastern 

 United States we have at nighl often heard a species of the presenl 

 genus. The -"ti'_ r was much quicker and sharper than thai of the 



"* Although all of ili«' specimens from this State here recordi 

 w<- bave before at previously recorded males from Raleigh, which show » I > * - 

 materia] from this region, al feasl from above the fall line, to I"- typical camelli- 

 folia. 



II, p 343, 1908 

 Kill.- uid - / ■ ' M. n 21fi 



, ■ I 775 ' 




258 



PROCl EDINGS OF THE \« \I>l\n OF 



April, 



Qorthern insect, and these individuals probably belonged to the 

 presenl form. 117 



Belocephalus subapterus Scudder. 



Uh Carolina. Homerville, VIII, 27, 191 1. R & H 



Florence, IX, 8, 1911, I; a II . I . 1 juv. 9. 



2 juv ■. 1 ju. Thomasville, XII, L8 L908, II . 2 '. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Florida. 



v^n^ix. .. i9n, (r. & ii.. • ,a ; k "" mll " v \ 1 ' I -H ; :J ,M ( 1 - , P ; v ", • 



, - -. uv • 7 |U 1 juy. ? XI, 6, 1911, <(,. I'. Engle- 



gia. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 191 L, R. & 



nnah, \ III. 1 I. L903, \. I'- " • -' '■ - ?> - juv. \ 1 juv. 9. 



Morse), 1 juv Bastings, (A. J. Brown 3 . 39, 



Isle of Hope. IX, 3, 1911, (R. & B.), ' J ,1V '• ' -'"• 



•> • ;; , i j, r . Williston, 1. 9, 1893, (M. II. Barton 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & B.), 2 a", 1 <?> I 1 '- s - N M ' 



1 . 2juv.9. Sanford, X. 24, 1889, (W. \. Gould), 



.J.-up. IX. I. 1911, Ii & II'. 1 juv. dX 1 9 - [U. S. X. M.|. 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (II . Orlando, (A. Baden), 19, [Bebard 



1 juv. dX r| "i- 



Cumberland Island, VIII. 31, 1911, Fort Drum, 1 9 , [Bebard Cln.]. 



a. & B.), 1 juv. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (B.), 19. 



Billy's Island, IX, 1-6, 1913, (J. C. Tallahassee, VIII, 8, 1903, (A. I'. 



Bradley . 1 juv. '; XII. 23, 1913, Morse), 1 juv. <?. 



(J. ('. Bradley i. 8 dX 



Measurements (in millimeters) of extremes. 



Produc- Ventral 



tion of length of 



vertex fastigium Length of 



Length of beyond of Length of caudal 



body. eye. vertex, pronotum. femur. 



Florence, 8. C 25 3 2.9 1 .9 6.9 14.7 



Yen: jsee.S. C _- ( g 26.3 2.7-2.S 1.7-2 6.5-6.9 L3 3 14.3 



Sandfly, Ga 27.4-29.7 3 -3.2 2.4-2.2 7-7.2 15 15.1 



Billy's Island, Ga 23.8-27.3 2.5-3 1.7-2.1 6.2-7.7 13.1 15.8 



Thomasville, Ga 24.5-24.7 2.4-2.6 1.6 6.3-7.3 13.5-15.1 



Atlantic Beach, Fla 32.3-36.1 3.3-4 2.3-3.2 7.8-8.3 16.1-18.8 



9 



Live Oak, Fla .... 37 :; 4 3.1 8.7 18.8 



These measurements show that scarcely any size variation may 

 orrelated with the northern and southern distribution of this 

 insect. Material from the region about Jacksonville (including 

 Atlantic Beach and Pablo Beach) is the largest we have ever seen; 

 this has been found to be true in the case of a number of other species 

 and is apparently due to environmental conditions. The series 

 from the not distanl Billy's Island in the Okeefenokee Swamp 



117 Caudell records a specimen of what he considered elongatus, which we find 

 a synonym of camellifolia, as taken when stridulating "a higher quicker 

 note." The unquestionable statue and full distribution of intermedia mil only 

 be known when much larger collections of these insects have been made. 




1916.] NATURAL S< [EN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



averages the smallest of any before us, the average being nearer 

 the minimum measurements given above. 



Tlit- material before u- shows the vertex to be variable in the 

 present insect, both in degree of production and shape. The vertex 

 ranges from a produced form in which the apical spine is long and 

 nearly straight, to one in which the vertex is decidedly less produced 

 with the apical spine short and strongly uncinate. The former type 

 is mosl decided in material before us from Live Oak and the region 

 aboul .Jacksonville, while the specimens from Thomasville represenl 

 the most decided development of the latter type. 



The majority of specimens before us are. apparently irrespective 

 ol sex, of the green color phase. In the brown color phase the 

 latero-dorsal line- of the pronotum are more pronounced. 



The pre-, nt species i- one of the latesl to appear; in southern 

 Georgia adult- are present in the greatesl numbers probably early in 

 I »■ ••■mlier. at which time the firsl lolling frosts usually occur. Davis 

 has found the closely related I',, rehrri apparently hibernating in 

 winter in northeastern peninsular Florida. 



The above record- considerably extend the known range of the 

 species both northward and southward. The material before us was 

 taken in an open -pot in the pine woods covered with high gi 



• nee i. in wet -pot in pine wood- (Ashley Junction), in gray-bark 

 pine wood- in heavy undergrowth of green plants and vines (Isle of 

 Hope and Sandfly), on a young cabbage palmetto (Thomasville), 

 m b palmetto "hammock," in a tangle of raspberry and grape vines 

 and other plants (Atlantic Beach), in a small clump of mound oak 

 on the side of a -ink hole Live < > ;t k I and on pineapple I ' trlando). 



Bt-locephaluB davisi n ■ 



The presenl species, which we take pleasure in naming after the 

 devoted studenl of this genus, Mr. William T. Davis, i- related more 

 \ to B. sabalii and />'. sleighti than to the other species of the 

 It is a large insect, nearl) as robusl as the two sp< cies men- 

 tioned above, bul agrees with the otherwise very differenl B. svb- 

 apterus in having similar Mack markings on head, antenna- and 

 pronotum. 



Nearesl affinity to sabali and sleighti is Bhown by the supra- 

 anal plate, which in these species onl) is verj deeplj emarginate 

 mesad. This deep emargination is usually constanl in form and 

 distinctive in these species; in abed il ha the sides straight with 

 ute, the lateral production- formed by this emargination 

 have evenly converging sides with acute apex situated ra 




_V>ll PROCEEDINGS OF I in: \< \i>i:\n 01 [April, 



in 8leighti t hi> emargination is extremely deep and has the Bidea 

 concave with angle not acute, but rather narrowly rounded, the 

 lateral productions thus formed have sharply acute apices, which, 

 however, are situated on their outer margins, due to the convexity of 

 their inner margins; in davisi the emargination is no1 quite as deep 

 as in sleighti, with the side- convex and angle very broadly rounded. 

 the lateral productions formed by this emargination have evenly 

 converging sides with blunt and sharply rounded apex situated mesad. 

 The supra-anal plate in the other species of the genus, with distal 

 margin very broadly and shallowly concave, is very distinct. 



Ti ; b: o* : Billy's Island. ( >keefenokee Swamp, ( leorgia. September 

 l :.. L913. -I.e. Bradley.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 156.] 



Description of Type- Size large Tor the genus, form robust but 

 not as decidedly robust as in sabalis and sleighti. I lend in form 

 much as in those species, but with ventral portion not as broad; not 

 immaculate as in those species, but agreeing with the other species 

 of the genus in having the ventral margin of the face above the 

 clypeus broadly banded with black, and with the base of the antenna' 

 margined ventrad, and the dorsal surface of the fastigium of the 

 vertex lined laterad. with the same color. Antenna* with proximal 

 joints marked with black, these markings becoming fainter distad 

 and disappearing at the end of the proximal third. Pronotum with 

 dorsum more constricted than in sabalis and sleighti and striped 

 latero-dorsad with black. Tegmina as in those species. Supra-anal 

 plate deeply emarginate mesad with sides convex and angle broadly 

 rounded, the lateral productions formed by this emargination having 

 evenly converging sides, but with apex blunt and sharply rounded. 

 Cerci and subgenital plate as in sabalis and sleighti, limbs and arma- 

 ment of the same similar, but decidedly less robust: unlike in those 

 species the limbs are marked with fine black punctae on the more 

 exposed surfaces. 



Allotype: S ; Same data as the type, but taken on December 28, 



1913. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. -Size somewhat larger than type, form 

 similar. Bead broader, more inflated than in females of $ubapteru8; 

 antennas similar. Pronotum more inflated than in type, but, as in 

 the other species of the genus, the latero-dorsal stripes are in this 

 no further separated caudad than cephalad. Tegmina very 

 small and pad-like and wings not visible, as in females of the other 

 species of the genus. Supra-anal plate triangularly produced with 

 sides concave and apex acute. Ovipositor slightly shorter than 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G1 



caudal femur, heavy proximad and tapering gently, and with a very 

 weak dorsad curvature, to the sharp, unarmed apex. Subgenital 

 plate large, lateral margins produced in long, -lender -pine- which 

 are subparallel and lie along the shaft of the ovipositor. General 

 color brown with black markings as in the type. 

 Ten paratypic male- bearing the same data as the type are before us. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



type. Paratypic Allotype. 



o" c. c? 9 



Length of body 34.3 32 9 id 3 36 



l h of vertex 3.8 3 I "■ 11 



Vertex from teeth to apex . 2 6 2 • 3 6 3 1 



Length of pronotum 8 3 8.9 8 l 



Length of tegmea 6 7.1 2 3 



Length of caudal femur 16. 4 L6.7-18.8 18.4 



■ h of ovipositor L9 2 



\- in the other species of the genus of which we have a number 

 of specimens, a considerable amounl of size variation i- present in 

 this insect. There i- also a decided amounl of variation in the shape 

 of the supra-anal plate in the above examples, though material of 

 sleighti and sabalis is constanl in this respect, and. although in oone 

 of the paratypes is the median emargination as deep as in sleighti, 

 the form of this emargination, and of the lateral productions thus 

 tunned, l- in orn- of the paratypes similar to the type found in thai 

 Bpecies, and in several other- is intermediate in character. 



1 our male paratypes and the female allotype are of the brown color 

 phase, the other six specimens, male type and paratypes, are green. 



The male- were taken at oighl by Dr. Bradley, when they 

 were found in numbers stridulating in the undergrowth of the pine 

 woods. 



In addition to this material we have before us a dried alcoholic 

 pair taken l.\ I;. \. Mill- .it Chuluota, Florida, and now in the United 

 States National Museum. 



Pyrgocorypha uncinata n 



II • Springs, IV, 1906 I - ll ebai Thompson'* Mill-. IV I II I 



I •. II. ; I Allard l U.8.N.M 



I Bi i 



The specimen from Ho1 Springs was taken in a hotel where it had 

 been attracted by the lights at night, with it several examples of 

 \. tconocephalus triop of mosl authors) were taken. ' 



18 




262 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi \< \iu;my OF [ April, 



NEOCONOCEPHALUS Karoy. 



The authors have recently studied the species of this genus found 

 in North America north of the Mexican boundary. 118 The material 

 from the region at presenl under consideration is there treated in 



full. We give below the localities for this material. 

 Neoconocephalus exiliscanorus (Davie) 



Washington, Distrid of Columbia, and Rosslyn and Clarendon, 

 Virginia. 



The species has also been recorded in the region under consideration 

 from Raleigh, North Carolina, and Thompsons Mills, Georgia. 



Neoconocephalus melanorhinus (Rehn and Hebard). . 



Ocean ( Jity, Maryland. 

 Neoconocephalus robustus crepitans (Soudder). 



( Ihesapeake Beach, Somerset Heights, Plummer's Island, Maryland; 

 Washington, District of Columbia; Herndon, Clarendon, Oceanview 

 and Virginia Beach, Virginia; Tarboro, Raleigh, Salisbury, Southern 

 Pines and Wrightsville, North Carolina; Columbia and Denmark, 

 South ( arolina; Atlanta. Augusta, Tybee Island and Albany, Georgia, 

 and Atlantic Beach and Hastings, Florida. 

 Neoconocephalus caudellianus (Davis). 



Yemassee, South Carolina, and Billy's Island, Georgia. 



Neoconocephalus velox Helm and Hebard. 



Billy - .- [sland, Ceorgia. 



Neoconocephalus retusus (Scudder). 



Laurel an 1 Plummer's [sland, Maryland; Washington and Anolostan 



Island. District of Columbia; Rosslyn, Falls Church and Roanoke, 

 Virginia; Fayetteville, Wrightsville and Winter Park, North Caro- 

 lina; Florence. South Carolina; Atlanta, Albany, Bainbridge and 

 Fargo, Ceorgia. and South Jacksonville and Daytona, Florida. 



Neoconocephalus triops (Linns i 



Conocepkalus mexieanus and fusco-striatus <>f recent authors. 



Washington, District of Columbia; Hampton and Virginia Beach, 

 Virginia: Fayetteville, North ('arolina; Florence and Yemas 

 South Carolina; Atlanta. JeSUp, St. Simon's Island, Cumberland 

 [sland, Billy's Island, Thomasville and Bainbridge, Ceorgia, and 

 Jacksonville, Hastings and Daytona, Florida. 



im. Eni, Soc, XL, pp. 365-413, (1915 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2(33 



Homorocoryphus malivolans (Scudder). 



Tappabannock, Virginia, VII, 13 to Wilmington, North Carolina, VIII, 1. 

 VIII. 18, 1915, II. Fox), 29 d\ Mi. I'. Englehardt). 19, llJ [U.S. 



12 9, [FoxCln.]. \. M.). 



From tin- area covered by the presenl paper, the species has 

 previously beeD recorded only from the Bingle specimen from Wil- 

 mington. North Carolina. It, however, probably occurs in the tidal 

 marshes of the Atlantic coast, from southern Florida northward as 

 far as tin- Virginia locality given above. 



This interesting species was found by Dr. Fox quite frequenl in 

 the dense growth of tall reeds, Spartina cynosuroides, in a tidal marsh. 



ORCHELIMUM BervUle. 



Tin' materia] of this genus in the collections before us ha- recently 

 been fully treated by i h<- presenl authors. 120 The localities from the 



collection- here being studied are a- follow.-; 



Orchelimum agile (De( 



Chestertown, < !edar Point and Hyattsville, Maryland; Washington, 

 I ). < '. : Rosslyn, Addison, Appomattox and Virginia I 'each, Virginia; 

 Hamlet, Wilmington, Winter Park, Wrightsville and Pake Wacca- 

 maw, North Carolina; Yemassee, South ( larolina; Thompson's Mi IP, 

 te Mountain. Savannah, Jesup, Tybee Island, < lumberland I. -land, 

 Hebardville and Albany, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jackson- 

 ville, Ortega, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Live Oak, Carrabelle, 

 Marianna, Quincy, Hastings and Sanford, Florida. 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (Hun., 



Virginia Beach and Cape Henry, Virginia; Raleigh, Goldsboro, Fay- 



ille, Smith ville, Wilmington, Wrightsville and Pake Waccamaw, 



North Carolina; Florence, Ashley Junction and Yemassee, South 



ina; Macon. Savannah. Tybee Island, < Iroveland, Jesup, Billy's 



bland, Homerville and Albany, Georgia, and South Jacksonville, 



Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Hastings and Pa Grange, Florida. 



Orchelimum vulgare u 



< Ihestertown, Maryland; Washington, 1 1 C Falls ' Ihurch, I >ryden, 

 Norfolk and Wytheville, Virginia; Edenton, Elaleigh, Blowing Rock, 

 Blantyreand Linville, North Carolina, and Thompson's Mills, G 



! in- specimen baa been previously record) 

 Renn and rlebard, l>\ Sherman and Brimley. * 



"•7 XI.I. pp II S3, 1918 




PRO< i EDINGS "i i in. M \m.\n OP 'April. 



Orchelimuni laticauda Redtenbachei 



Tolchester, Hyattsville, Plummer's Island and Montgomery( lounty, 

 Maryland; Washington and Anolostan [sland, I). C.j Rosalyn and 

 Fredericksburg, Virginia; Weldon, Newbern and Lake Waccamaw, 

 North < larolina; Florence, South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Jesup 

 and Billy's Island, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jacksonville, 

 Ortega, Atlantic Beach and Sanford, Florida. 



Orchelimum minor Bruner. 



Maryland opposite Plummer's Island; District of Columbia; 

 Raleigh and Sulphur Springs, NTorl h ( Jarolina, and Thompson's Mills, 

 Hoschton and Thomasville, Georgia. 



Orchelimum concinnum Scuddi r, 



( Jhestertown, Maryland; Oceanview and Virginia Beach, Virginia; 



Wrightsville and Smith Island, North Carolina; Tybee Idan d. 

 Georgia, and Warrington and Fort Barrancas, Florida. 



Orchelimum fidicinium Rehn and Hebard. 



< Iceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Carolina; coast of South 

 < larolina; Savannah, Tybee Island and Cumberland Island, Georgia. 



Orchelimum militare Rehn and Hebard. 



Winter Park and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence, 

 South ( larolina; Jesup, Waycross, Jordan's on Billy's Island, Homer- 

 ville, Tifton and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic 

 Beach and Hastings, Florida. 



Orchelimum bradleyi Rehn and Hebard. 



Wilmington, North ( 'arolina; Chase Prairie in Okeefenokee Swamp, 

 I leorgia, and Jacksonville and Tallahassee, Florida. 



Orchelimum superbum Rehn and Hebard. 



Tappahannock, Essex County, Virginia, VII, 27 to 28, 1915, (H. Fox, in tidal 

 marsh on Scirpusamericanus), 1 _-,\ [U. S. N. ML; A. X.S.P. and Fox ("In. J. 



Dr. Fox has kindly permitted us to include this record in the 

 hi paper. The species was previously known only from south- 

 ern New Jersey. Two of the specimens have the outer genicular 

 lobe of the caudal femora bispinose. 



CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg. 



The American material of this genus in the collections before us 

 also recently been fully treated by the present authors. 121 The 



i» Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLI, pp. 155-224, (1915); ibid., pp. 225-290. 




1916.] NATURAL >< EEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



localities represented in the collections here being considered, are 



as follows: 



Conocephalus allardi (Caudett). 



Wytheville, Virginia, and Rabun County, Georgia. 



Conocephalus fasciatus fasciatus (De Geer). 



Chestertown and Island Creek, Maryland: Washington, D. I . : 

 Fredericksburg, Norfolk, Virginia Beach, Bickory, Appomattox and 

 Wytheville, Virginia; Eure, Selma, Winter Park. Lake Waccamaw, 

 Greensboro, Salisbury, Roan Mountain, Linville, Morganton, 

 Balsam, Governors Island and Topton, North Carolina; Denmark 

 and Yemasset . South < larolina; Trenton, Marietta. Atlanta. Augusta, 

 Savannah. Tybee Island, Isle of Bope, Jesup, St. Simon's Island, 

 Brunswick, Cumberland Island, Waycross, Billy's Island. Macon, 

 Westpoint, Columbus, Albany and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jack- 

 sonville, South Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Live Oak, 

 Tallahassee, Marianna and Cedar Key-. Florida. 



In addition we have before us 1 ?, Daytona, Fla. XI, 11. L911, 

 G. P. Englehardt), [Bklyn. [nst. A. .V- S.]. 



Conocephalus brevipennis 3 



Plummer'a Island, 4 labin John and Mar-hall Hall, Maryland : Wash- 

 ington and Anolostan Island, I).*'.: Rosslyn, Falls Church, Appo- 

 mattox, Wytheville, Cape Henry, Norfolk ami Virginia Beach, Vir- 

 ginia; Fayetteville, Roan Mountain. Linville, Saluda, Governors 

 Island, Wilmington and Lake Waccamaw. North Carolina; Spartan- 

 burg, Florence and Yemassee, South Carolina; Atlanta, Savannah, 

 Sandfly, Billy's Island and Bomerville, Georgia, ami South Jack- 

 sonville and Atlantic Beach, Florida. 



Conocephalus nemoralis (Scudder).u* 



Sharpsburg and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 1' 

 and Luray, Virginia. 



Conooephalus strictus Bcudder). 



Washington, I >. C; Arlington, Falls ('lunch. Norfolk, Virginia 

 Beach and Appomattox, Virginia, and Newbern, North Carolina. 



Conocephalus stictomerus Rehn and Hebard. 



' Ihestertown, Maryland: ( Ihurchland, Virginia, ami Raleigh, North 

 < larolina. 



\ specimen from Bogota, Colombia, recently recorded as this, npecii 

 Bruner (Ann. Carneg Mtu , l\. p ;7". 1916 I ia certainly not tin- form • 

 erroneously labelled. * 




266 



RO< EEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



April, 



Conocephalus aigialus Etohn fend Hebard. 



Cape Henry and Oceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Caro- 

 lina; Tybee [sland, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jacksonville 

 and Pablo Beach, Florida. 



Conocephalus nigropleuroides I 



Oceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Carolina; Cumberland 

 [aland, Georgia, and Cedar Keys, Florida. 



Conocephalus spartinae I Fox). 



Oceanview and Virginia Beach, Virginia; Wrightsville, North 

 Carolina, and Tybee Island, Georgia. 



Conocephalus saltans (Scuddei 



Somerset Heights and Cabin John Hun, Maryland; Washington, 

 D. C.j Fayetteville, Wilmington, Winter Park, Wrightsville and Lake 

 Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence and Yemassee, South Caro- 

 lina: Atlanta, Stone Mountain and Spring Creek in Decatur ( !oui 

 Georgia. 



Odontoxiphidium apterum (Morse). 

 North Carolina. 



Fayetteville, IX. 9, 1911, (H.), 1 cf. 

 Winter Park. IX. 7, 11)11. (R. & H.), 

 6 cf . 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX. 6, 1911, (H.), 2 cf. 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



8 cf, 4 9, 2 juv. 9. 

 I >. omark.VIII, 15, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



6 cf,89. 

 Yemassee, IX. 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



13 d\ 6 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 

 Blue Ridge, VII, 25, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 juv 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 19. 

 Band Mountain. VIII, 25, 1903, 

 A P Morse ,3 '.1 juv. 9. 



T a, \ HI. 5, L913, (H.), 19. 



Currahee Mountain. \'III, 5, 1913, 



II . 7 cf, 1 9, 3 juv. 9. 

 Stone Mountain. VIII, 3, 1913, (H.), 



1 cf . 

 Vicinity ol Stone Mountain. VIII, 3, 



1913". (H.), 1 9. 

 Warn, Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, R 



5 8 . 1 juv. cf , 2 juv. 9. 

 Macon, VII, 30 31, 1913, R & ll 



I juv. •", 3 jir. 

 Tifton, IX. 8, L910, .1. C. Bradley), 



i '. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, L913, (R.& II.;, 10 cf, 

 6 juv. 9. 



Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 cf . 

 Spring ('reek. VII-VIII, 1912-13. 



(J. C. Bradley), 3 cf , 1 juv. 9 . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & II.'. 



2 cf, 19, 4 juv. 9. 

 Savannah, VIII, 1 1. 1903, (A. P.Morse 



5 cf . 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 10 cf, 



59. 

 Me of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



21 cf, 16 9. 

 Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 cf. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (P. & II.), 7 cf, 



29. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30. mil. (H.), 10 cf, 



49. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911. 



■\i. & II), 19. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & II .), :; a", 3 9. 

 V7aycross,VIII, II. 19o:j, i A. P.-Morso. 



2 cf , 2 juv. 9. 

 Bebardville, V, 15, LM5, 'II.), 1 juv cf. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, L911, (R. & 



II . 3 cf, 4 9. 

 Billy's Island, V, It., 1915, (H.), 



L juv.9; VI, VII, IX, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 15 cf, 3 9. 

 Honey Island, VI, I, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 



lev. 1 adult. 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 4 cf, 6 9, 2 juv. 9. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Florida. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



Jacksonville, VIII. 25, 1911, (R. & H.), Pablo Beach, IX.' 5, 1913, W. T. 



11 ', 20 ?, 5 i a .; XI. 3, 1911, Davis 1 '19 



W. T. Davis), 2 \19. Uve Oak,' VIII, 10, 1903, A..P.Morse), 



South Jacksonville, IX. 7. 28, 1911, 5 ',69; VHI,.26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



\\ . T. Davis , ."> cf, 49. 12 \ 7 9, 1 ju. 



The material from the region about Jacksonville averages the 

 largest of any recorded above; there appears, however, to be little 

 -'[/.<■ variation correlated with northern and southern distribution 

 in the present large series, and the specimens taken at Jacksonville 

 in November arc as small as any examples we have seen. These 

 latter specimens, when compared with the largest from that locality, 

 the following extremes of measurement: length of body, o* 

 9.9 14.3, 1-' L6.3; length of ovipositor, 11.2 15.4 mm. 



The stridulation of this curious species is a very faint and inter- 

 mittent zip-zip-zee-zee-zee zip-see-zee, etc. The males when stimu- 

 lating often climb high up in the undergrowth; we have frequently 

 found them three or four feet from the ground. 



Throughout the low counl ry of the ( larolinas, < l< orgia and Florida, 

 this is one of the most ubiquitous species in the undergrowth of the 

 pine woods and alsoon palmetto flats. At a uumberof localities the 

 insects were found particularly numerous about oak shoot- in such 

 situations. In the high country of Georgia the species was found 

 ce in level woods (Dalton), everywhere abundant in luxuriant 

 mountain vegetation of grasses, vines and oak sprouts under a forest 

 predominantly Mack-jack oak (Currahee Mountain), in a patch of 

 mint in a bunch-grass area under pines (on Stone Mountain) and 

 among oak -hoot- in undergrowth of mixed forest Toccoa, vicinity 



Stone Mountain, Warm Springe 



ATLANTICUS Bcudder. 



The Bpecies of this genus have recently been studied by the 

 authors. 123 A full treatment of the material from the region under 

 consideration is there presented. We here give the localities of the 

 material before us belonging to the eighl species found in the area 

 ;it presenl treated. 



Atlanticus teitaceus 



.1 pachymt rut of most authi 



Plummer'fi Island, Cabin John Run and Glen Echo, Maryland] 

 Washington, !>.<'.: Arlington, Virginia. 



\l.ll pp 1916 




268 PRCX BEDINGS I 'i i HE \' \i>i.\n OP V'HI, 



Atlanticus pachymerus (Bunneister). 



Greensboro, Raleigh, Goldsboro, Lake Kllis (Havelock) and 



Southern Pine-. Norl h i larolina. 



Atlanticus davisi Rehn and Hebard. 



Meadow Mountain at 3,000 feet elevation. Conowingo, Laurel, 

 Beltsville and Glendale, Maryland; Rock Creek, D. C; Arlington, 

 Fairfax < lounty, < rreal Palls, Falls ( Ihurch, < liven I >« 11 Farm two mile- 

 west of Pohick in Fairfax County, Orkney Springs, Stony Man 

 Mountain, Orange, Il<-t Springs and Addison, Virginia. 



Atlanticus monticola Davis. 



Washington ( Jounty, Virginia; Linville, Black Mountain-. Valley <>f 

 Black Mountains, .lone-' Knob, Balsam Mountains and Lake Toxa- 

 way. North Carolina; Pinnacle Peak and Clayton, Georgia. 



Atlanticus americanus (Sausi 



.1 . dorsali of mosl authors. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's I-land, Maryland; Washington, 

 D. C; Arlington, ( !larendon, Falls ( !hurch, Seven Mile Ford, < trange 

 and Roanoke, Virginia; Greensboro, Sulphur Springs, Waynesville, 

 Lake Toxaway, Topton, Andrew- and Murphy, North Carolina; 

 ( layton, Tuckoluge Creek, Kabun Bald, top of Pinnacle Peak, Tal- 

 lulah Falls, Sand Mountain, Jasper and Losl Mountain, Georgia. 



Atlanticus gibbosus Scudder. 



Florence and Magnolia, South ( 'arolina; Currahee Mountain, Warm 

 Springs, Sandfly, Billy's Island and Spring Creek, Georgia: ( Jrestview, 

 Lake City, Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach and Eastings, 

 Florida, 



Atlanticus dorsalis (Bunneister). 



Billy's Island and Thomasville, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida. 



Atlanticus calcaratus Rehn and Hebard. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, and Hastings, Florida. 



Camptonotus carolinensis (Gerstaeck 



Delaware. beaten from wild grape vines on 



,. ,. , .... .. ., 10 ground in short-lent' pine woods). 



Miss Lillian Hall), 19, ? inv <-r 



[A. N. S. P.]. Georgia. 



Virginia. Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Near Washington. D. ( '.. X, 13, 1883, Allard), 1 cf, [Hebard Cln, . 



1 ... Hebard Cln.]. Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, mil. .1. C 



Orange, VII, 21, L913, (R. & II .: Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



beaten t'roin low herbage), 4 juv.d". Florida 



North Cam!,,,,,. St Augustine, C. W. Johnson), 1 <?, 



Charlotte. VII. 27. 1913, Et. & II.: [A. N. S. P.]. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Two consecutive instars are represented in the four immature males 

 from Orange, both earlier than thai exemplified by the Charlotte 

 specimen, which is in the instar preceding maturity. The records 

 from Spring Creek and St. Augustine are the mosl southern known 

 for the species in the Atlantic coast States. 



Hadenoecus puteanus Bcudder. 



North Carolina. Thompson's Mills, X. 1" • II. A. 



Sunburst, lab May, L912, C - Allard), 2 ". I iv., [l\ S. 



Brimley . 2 juv Brimley Cln.l. N M :in '' Hebard Cln.]. 



BUlv'a [sland, IX. 1 5, 1913 J 

 C. Bradley), 2 \ [Cornell !• 

 ,:, County, VII, 1910, W. T. 

 Davis . 2 juv. f, 2 juv. 9. 



The immature females -how that the dentations of the internal 

 valves of the ovipositor are not appreciably indicated until the adull 

 coni lit ion i- reached. We have had before lis for comparison a cotype 

 from North Carolina, received from Scudder by Bruner, in whos< 

 series it was. 



The above Georgia localities in a measure connect up the two 

 previously known records of the species from the southern State-. 

 North Carolina and Monticello, Mississippi. 



Ceuthophilus uhleri Scudder. 



Ma (land. 

 Cabin John Run, IX. L911, (W. T. Clayton, VIII, 18, 1 juv.'.. 

 iris; trapped in molasses jai . 

 H ', 34 Pinnacle Peak, VIII, 20, 1913, .1 C. 



Bradley . 1 iui 



m County, \ II. 1910, W T. 

 Dai 



We have examined authentic materia] of this species and ol I 

 Matchleyi Scudder and, apparently, the supposed differential features 

 are too variable for reliance. Mow. \ er, we do not care to synonymize 



the latter name. ,-i- ..iir material i- not sufficiently conclusive to war- 

 rant BUch action .-it this time. 



This species varies greatly in Bize in both sexes, the extremes 

 in millimeters of undoubtedly adull material of both sexes from 

 1 iin John Run beii 



Length <>:' pronotum 

 Length of cephalic femur 

 Length <>f caudal femur 

 Length <>f caudal tibi ■ 

 Length of ovipositor 




270 PROCEEDINGS 0] PHE \« \m\n OF [April, 



The surface of the body is never polished in the male, always 

 being dull and a1 times almosl velvety in appearance. In the 

 female sex this condition is present, bu1 not as a rule, the majority 

 of the individual^ of thai sex having the surface weakly polished. 

 The male- show a very appreciable amount of individual variation 

 in the lamellate development of the ventro-externaJ margin of the 

 caudal femora, as well as in the number, disposition and size of the 

 spines on the same margin. 



The species is known to range from the vicinity of the city ol 

 New York to northeastern Georgia; in addition to these given above, 

 the only definite record of its occurrence in the southeastern States 

 is thai from Raleigh, North Carolina (Brimley). 



Ceuthophilus latibuli Scudder. 



L905. Ceuthophilus virgatipes Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nal 

 Phila., L904, p. 798. [Thomasville, Georgia.] 



Bainbridge, Georjria, VII, 15-27, L909, (J. C. Bradley), 1 <?. 

 Clearwater, Florida, VI, 27. 1 iuv. ?. [Cornell Univ.]. 



Jupiter, Pla., V, 2, 1903, I). M. Castle), 1 \ LO juv. d\ 1 jviv. 9 . [A. X. S. P.].- 



The species virgatipes, when described, was compared with secretus 

 and varicator, with which it lias, however, no relationship. This 

 erroneous comparison was due to Scudder's key, which ran adults 

 to the vicinity of the above-mentioned species, while latibuli was 

 placed by him in another section, in which authentic material 

 examined by him at that time, and now before us, would not fall. 

 The type (male) of virgatipes is in the instar preceding maturity, 

 but the allotype (female) is fully adult. It is evident that the full 

 development of the caudal spurs and calcaria is not acquired until the 

 adult condition is reached, these being relatively shorter in the 

 Dearly adult specimens than in the mature individuals. There is 

 also some individual variation in the length and development of the 

 spurs and in the length of the different calcaria. The more subdued 

 general coloration of the virgatipes material is in part due to dis- 

 coloration. The color pattern is seen to vary greatly in intensity 

 and consequently in the relative extent of the pale and dark areas. 



The species has been reported from "gopher" holes at Crescenl 

 City and Enterprise, Florida, and from "< leorgia," in addition to the 

 localities mentioned above. 



Ceuthophilus gracilipes (Haldeman). 



1894. Ceuthophilus grandis Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sec, 



XXX, [>i>. 24, 38. [Chattanooga, Tennessei 

 1894. Ceuthophilus turn, Scudder, ibid., pp. 26, 54. [North Carolina. 1 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Maryland. Davis; trapped in molasses jar), 



Garrett County, last week of Jury, n J" v - — (i i ,; 



W. Stone ,29, A. N S. P. North Carolina. 



Cabin John Run, IX. l'.'li. W. T. Black Mountain, IX, 6, 1 ', [B. I.]. 

 Davis: trapped in molassi - 

 7 ',99, 3 juv 

 District of Columbia, VI, 1910, W. T. Rabun County, VII, L910, W. 1 

 Davis; trapped in molasses jar . Davis . _' .4 juv. 9. 



1 juv. -", 1 j i ! . Wilson Gap, Rabun County, VIII. 



22, 1913, J. C. Bradlej . 7 



Clayton, 2,000 3,000 feet, VI, 1909, 

 Alexandria County, VI, 1910, W. T. W. T. Davis . 1 juv. 9. 



We have carefully studied the original descriptions of the two 

 species here synonymized, and we are unable to separate them from 

 typical gracilipes by the presence of any invariable character or 

 characters. We have also had before us a paratype of heros, labelled 

 as such in Scudder's handwriting. 

 The species gracilipes is a very variable one in certain features, 

 size, relative elongation and depth of the caudal femora and 

 spinatiou of the same, character of the caudal tibiae and coloration. 

 The size variation, as seems to be the rule in the genus, is very con- 

 siderable, the extremes in millimeters) of adult- .it' both sexes from 

 ( labin John Run being: 



d 1 • 9 9 



Length of pronotum 5.1 6.7 6 2 7.2 



Length of cephalic femur - 11.9 Hi 11.1 



-•h of caudal femur 17.9 19.8 22 8 



i depth of caudal femur 11 6.4 5 



Length of caudal tibia 26 I 22 2 



Length of ovipositor l' 1 2 l i 2 



Tin' caudal femora Beem to show some geographic correlation in 

 the variation of comparative depth to length, specimens from unit hern 

 Georgia showing the greatesl relative depth, while more northern 

 individuals generally have the caudal femora distinctly more slender, 

 but this is by do mean- a rule, as northern specimens frequently have 

 as robusi femora as more southern material. The male paratype of 

 from North Carolina has the caudal femora relatively quite 

 -lender. The -|, iiiation of the ventro-external margin of the caudal 

 femora of the male j> extremely variable in character, ranging from 

 the relatively heavier, basally tumid, spines of typical grandis to the 

 weak and relative shoii type found in the paratype of hx ros. Betwe< n 

 these extremes we hud all intermediates in the strength of the Bpines, 

 while the Dumber of the same varies from as few as eighl to as many 

 as sixte< d. 



The caudal til.i.e are generally somewhat proximad, lnw 




272 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE ICADBM1 <>i [April, 



me frequently straight. The exacl thickness (i.e., section) of the 

 tibia varies somewhat] in one male from Blocton, Alabama (reported 

 by Scudder and determined by him as gracilipes, the locality, 

 however, being erroneously given as "Blocton, Florida")} being 

 greater than in any other individual seen. The depth of the general 

 body coloration varies appreciably, bu1 there is generally an approxi- 

 mate uniformity in material from the same locality. As a rule, 

 northern adult material shows a more transverse disposition of the 

 color pattern and southern material a more longitudinal one. The 

 two t( adencies are to be seen in many forms of this genus, sometimes 

 both the longitudinal and transverse being developed in the same 

 individual, in others one at the expense of the other and again a 

 genera] suffusion tones all to a deeper uniformity. The soalariform 

 pattern of the eaudal femora is weaker in northern than in southern 

 specimens, a- i- also generally the case with the infuscation of the 



distal femora] portions and the presence of the pale prciienieillar 

 annulus on the caudal femora. These two latter features are rarely 

 indicated in northern adults, bu1 distinct in all the southern specimens. 

 Immature specimens from all localities, ho\ve\-er. have a decidedly 

 contrasted color pattern, made up of longitudinal and transverse 

 elements, much as in the southern States adults, with darkened 

 femoral apices and distinct, pale pregenicular annuli on the caudal 

 femora. 



Ceuthophilus lapidicola (Burmeiater). 



North Carolina. Sunburst, Eaywood County, late May, 



Grandfather Mountain, above 1,000 1!U -' ,r - s - Primley), 1 juv. d\ 



feet, VII, 21, L904, (G. M. Bentley), ' juv. 9, [Brunley ( In.]. 



1 juv. --. |\. ('. State. Dept. Am.]. Andrews, VIII, 19, 1904, (F. Sherman 



Black Mountain, 19, [B. I.]. • ll - , > ' 9. IN- C. State Dept. Agr.]. 



We have also a pair of specimens labelled "North Carolina, 

 Morrison)," determined and recorded as this species by Scudder. 

 At the presenl time it is not possible to determine the correctness 

 of Scudder'- assignmenl of Burmeister's name to this species, the 

 description of which is quite inadequate to place positively the 

 name. bu1 i> seems quite probable that his action was correct. In 

 addition to this North Carolina material, we have before us quite a 

 icw specimens from the northeastern state-. Through the kindness 

 '!-. E. M. Walker, we have been able to examine four male and 

 three female paratypes of thai author'- C. pallidipes, described from 

 five localities in Ontario. 124 This is the northern extreme of the 



*"Can. Eni., XXXVII, p. 115, pi. IV, Bgs. 2-2c, (1905 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



species for which we use the name lapidicola; the specimens 

 are much reduced in size, bu1 inseparable from individuals from more 

 southern localities. The description of paUidipes, in it- analysis 

 the differential characters, is a decided aid to an understanding of 

 the specii s. 



The specimens recorded by Sherman and Brimley, 125 from Andrews 

 and i Grandfather .Mountain. North < iarolina, asC U nebrarum, belong 

 to this species, as an examination of the material shows. From 

 Andrews there is a -mall adult female, from Grandfather Mountain a 

 nearly adult quite small male minus the caudal limbs. The Southern 

 Pines record was based on a minute immature specimen which we 

 would not care to determine. At this writing we cannot make any 

 statement on the status of Scudder's tenebrarum. The Sunburst 

 pair recorded above is not quite mature, bu1 clearly represents the 

 present specit 3. 



The species was described from Virginia and South Carolina, but 

 previously we have had qo exact record from the southeastern States. 



Ceuthophilus latens Scudder. 



Alexandria County, Virginia, VI, 1910 and 1914, \\ "I Davis; trapped in 

 molasses jar . 36 '. 24 I . 2 juv i . Davis On.]. 



We are using for comparison certain specimens from tthaca, New 

 York, in the collection of < lornell University, and a female from \ igo 

 ' omit v. Indiana, in the Hebard < lollection, which were determined as 

 tin- species by Scudder. The series here recorded is of considerable 

 interest, as it shows to what extenl individual variation is present 

 in this striking and beautiful* species. 



In size the usual amount of variation is present, the extremes 

 (in millimeters I being: 



Length of pronotum 

 Length "i cephalic femur 

 Lengl h of caudal femur 

 Length <>f caudal tibia 

 Length 'if ovipositor 



The color pattern of this species is probably more uniformly 

 constant than in any other species of the genus of which we have 

 -<-''ii a considerable Belies. The broad pale dorsal line and the 

 broad bordering dark lines are always indicated on the thoracic 

 segments and their variation in width i- relatively -mall, while the 

 abdominal markings and the clouding of the caudal femora 

 characteristic of this species and lapidicola, and vary only in depth. 



/ XII, p 311, 1911 ' 




•J 7 I PROCEEDINGS 01 nil \< \ni;\n OF [April, 



The pale base color is more orange-ochraceous in some individuals 

 than in others, the extremes being pale clay color and burnl sienna. 

 This species and lajridicola arc very closely related, the females 

 particularly being extremely hard to separate Of the few differ- 

 ences -hand by both sexes may be mentioned the narrower medio- 

 longitudinal pale bar in lajridicola, which also has a greater irregularil y 

 ni its margins, and a frequent breaking up of the dark lateral bars. 

 The males of the two species can, in addition, be separated by the 

 more robusl caudal femora in the presenl species and the form of the 

 supra-anal plate, which has the distal margin submembranous in 



latins and chitinous in lajridicola, the plate also more elevated ilisto- 

 dorsad in lapidicola than in latens. 



The immature specimens of latens listed above have the thoracic 

 pattern essentially as in the adults. 



Ceuthophilus sallei Scudder. 



De Funiak Springs. 1 -''' Florida I . I 9, 1 juv. 9 , [Cornell Univ.], 



We have compared these specimens with a paratype from New 

 Orleans and find do important or constant differences. The color 

 pattern is seen to vary in intensity to such a degree thai occasionally 

 (in the adult female) the thoracic pattern is obsolete, although the 

 abdominal section is weakly indicated and the femoral pattern 

 typical, but not very decided. 



The author-' C. p< " insuiaris™ from southern Florida, is a close 

 relative of this species, hut just how close cannot be determined 

 until the female sex of the more recent form is known. 



The distribution of the species is here extended somewhat to the 

 eastward of the type and only previously known locality- — New( Orleans. 



Ceuthophilus spinosus Scudder. 



John Run, Maryland, IX, 1911, Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, II , 



W. T. Davi-; trapped in molasses taken at night with light), 1 9. 



jar ,19, [Davis ''in.!. Raleigh, North Carolina. II, 9, L904, 



Washington. I). C, IV. 20, 19, (Brimley; under log in pine woods), 



Bebard Cln. ex Bruner.]. 1M 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



District of Columbia, VI, L910, I \V. T. Atlanta, Georgia, VIII, 18, 1012, 3 9, 



I > i \i~ : trapped in molasses jar), [Ga. State Cln.]. 

 3 o", 29, [Davis Cln.]. 



1,6 These specimens are merely labelled "Funiak, Fla." bul as there Beems 

 to be 00 locality of thai name, we feel little doubt of their reference to the well- 

 known locality given above. 



M \< w>. Nat. S.i. PBXLA., 191 I. p. 108, H')14). 

 In Scudder's original series of C. neglectus, a specimen from Washington, 

 D. < in the Bnmer Collection, is listed. This record refers to the above speci- 

 men, which can be separated from the other paratypic females of neglectus from 



the Bnmer Collection, by the more Blender caudal femora and the fewer (four 



! of five) teeth on the internal valves of the ovipositor. 




1910.] NATURAL S< IKM BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



We have no authentic material of this striking species and our 

 determination rests on the agreemenl <>t' cur very extensive series 

 with the original description. We have, in addition to the specimens 

 here listed, larger series from the northeastern State-, which we 



will treat in detail at a later date. 



This species appear- to lie typical of a distinctive group of the 

 genu-, characterized in the male sex by the broad linguiform produced 

 supra-anal plate. The form of the subgenital plat", which hear- a 

 cordiform callose pattern, i- quite peculiar, while the general type 

 of the caudal femora i- different from that of any species of the 

 genus found in the eastern State- with which we are acquainted. 

 There is a slighl development of the fastigial ridge, less decided, 

 however, than in the uhleri group. The internal valve- of the 

 ovipositor bear bu1 four teeth, which are strongly developed, instead 

 of the more usual five or -ix teeth. The distal extremity of the 

 external ovipositor valves i- obliquely truncate, with the spiniform 

 dorso-distal point very well developed and directed at an angle of 

 about fifty degrees to the longitudinal axis of the ovipositor. 



There i- a greal amount of individual variation in size and robust- 

 ness of thi' whole body, and in the male this variational feature of 

 the caudal femora is very pronounced, and rather disproportionately 



bo. The number of teeth on the ventro-external margin of the 

 caudal femora and the character of the same are quite variable in the 



male sex. At a later date we intend to give additional information 

 on these point- from the other material we now have. 



[n the southern States the species appears to be one of the Piedmont 

 region, the lowest elevation from which we have definite records 

 being Baleigh and Southern Pines Sherman and Brimley), North 

 < larolina, and Atlanta, ( leorgia. 



Ceuthophilus neglectus Bcudder 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, IX, 1911, Alexandria County, Virginia, VI, I'.Mn. 

 \\ T i' ipped in moll \\ T Davis; trapped in molossp* 



1 - Cln.J. jar . 51 



• t of Columbia, VI, 1910, U . 'I". Cln.J. 



Davis; trapped in molasses jar). Orange, Va., VII, 21, 1913, I; a II 

 :: 33 ?, Dr.: I In :; ju\ 



We have before us three male and three female paratypes of 

 nnjli rius, one of the female- of which, a- we have already shown, 

 belongs to We have also male and female paratyp 



these being the pair recorded by Scudderfrom Chateaugaj 

 Lake, Adirondack Mountains, New York. A- stated by w 



kxxvii, p us. ie 




276 PRO* i BDING8 1 1] I in: \< \m.\n l II [April, 



certain of the specimens considered to be terrestris by Scudder, in his 

 description of the latter, are really neglectus. This is true of the two 

 specimens from Chateaugay Lake, which, while quite small, are dis- 

 tinctly neglectus. .lust how much of th iginal series of terrestris 



belongs to neglectus we cannol say al the presenl writing, but, as 

 Walker has shown, the few adult males in the Scudder Collection 

 represenl the latter specie s. 



\- Walker has said in explanation of his figure of the subgenitaJ 



plate of the male of this species, 1 '*" the type there shown is thai of the 

 immature male. This portion of the adult male i< different, having 

 no distal projections and with the free margin arcuato-truncate or 

 weakly emarginate, the plate entire or undivided, a median fold or 

 sulcus frequently present distad, bu1 this i- n,,t a true division of. 

 the plate. The supra-anal plate of the adult is elongate, trigonal- 

 linguiform, taken with the shape of the adjacent dorsal abdominal 

 - gments and the subgenital plate being characteristic of the species. 

 The ovipositor of the female hears five, or more rarely six, teeth on 

 the internal valves. 1 '" The individual size variation in adults of the 

 species is very great, SO much SO that the extremes might not be 

 recognized as the same species, as the larger specimens, by their 

 bulkiness, have a different general appearance. In the Alexandria 

 ( !ounty series the extreme- iu <ize (in millimeters) are as follows: 



d 1 c? 9 9 



Length of pronotum 4.8 6 L9 'i 



Length of cephalic femur.. 5 6 6.9 5 •">.!> 



Length of caudal femur .. L2.5 16 10. 1 13. 6 



Length of caudal tibia 12.8 L5.5 L0.8 13.4 



Length of ovipositor 5.9 7.4 



The coloration is quite variable in the depth of the pattern, which 

 in the paler specimens ha- a decided medio-longitudinal pale line 

 on the thoracic segments, and a closely tessellate abdomen, 

 which in the darker individual- has the median line subobsolete 

 and the tessellations reduced in number, although hut little in inten- 

 sity. The caudal femoral scalariform pattern, which is generally 

 moderately indicated, frequently strongly marked, is relatively poor 

 in contrast in the darker individuals. 



( an Enl., XXXVII, p. 117, pi. V, Qgs. 36-3c, (1905). 

 131 In very ran- instances, only two females from Alexandria County, Virginia, 

 out of one hundred and seventy-five examined for tin- character, we find bul 



four teeth presenl on these valves, hut in these individuals tin- usual two distal 

 fused and the form of the caudal femora and margins of the same 

 correctly associate 'he specimen-. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OJE PHILADELPHIA. 277 



The species appears to be one of the more abundant, if not the 

 most abundant, of the genus found in the eastern United States. 

 In the southeastern State- it has, as far as known, a very limited 

 distribution, net having been taken south of Orange Virginia. 



GRYLLIDuE. 

 Gryllotalpa hexadactyla Party. 



1838. Gr{yUotalpa] borealis Burmeister, Bandb. Entom., II. Abth. II. pt. 1, 

 p. 740. [North America.] 



Maryland. Marietta, VII. 27, L903, A. P. Morse . 



Bohemia Bridge, Cecil County, V, 30, *'• 



1914 (H. W. Fowler . 3 ?, [A. N. Atlanta, VI, 26 to VIII, 28, 1909 to 



S. P.J, brachypterous. I '"-- 39 > l J uv < l Ga - State ri " ■!• 



2 brachypterous. 

 District oj Columbia. \>,\\W- Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Washington, [V, 20, 19, [Hebard VI, 1912, J, C. Bradley), 19, 



Cln.], brachypterous. brachypterous. 



' ij Ki. Florida. 



Rabun County VII, 1910, W. T. Enterprise, IV, 17. P. Laurent), 1 



Davis . 3 juv. 152 [Hebard Cln.], brachypterous. 



Lavender, 1 d", [Ga. State Cln.], Lake City, l 9, [Hebard Cln.], bra- 



brachypterous. chypterous. 



After careful examination of material from many localities in 

 America, extending from the United States soul award to the -out hern 

 border- of tropical South America, we find that there is no valid 

 ground tor separating Burmeister's borecdis from hexadactyla of 

 Perty, described in 1832 from Minas Geraes, Brazil. 1 " Few compari- 

 sons are to be fOUHd between t he-e -1 1 1 >] >< i-< ■< I ] V dbtiliet form-. SaU-- 



Bure and Scudder giving as difference- the somewhal -mailer -ize of 

 In xadactyla and the more rounded projection at the base of the second 



lateral dactyl of the cephalic tibia-. The Series before ii- -how that 



the inseci attain- it- greatest size developmenl in the United States, 

 but that little constancy exists is also demonstrated, as specimens 

 from the same locality In Beveral eases -how almosl the maximum 

 difference in size found in the entire series before u-. which numbers 

 considerably over one hundred specimens. The rounded chitinous 

 projection at the base of the second lateral dactyl of the cephalic 

 tibiae is normally rounded, bul i- often worn down to a more or less 

 angulate condition and is naturally valueless as ■■< character in this 

 respect. No other differences exisl between North and South 

 American examples, and borealis as a result fall- into the al 



■Two <>f these individuals arc in th<- very early stages and the smallest >>f 

 hi- three, instead of four, tibial dactyls In three other specimens in • li<- 

 same instar before us, tin- remarkable featun Jso found 

 ■ Detect. Anim. Art. Bratit., p 119, pi 23, fig 9 1830-34 

 19 




278 PRO* i i DINGS "i i in v \iu.\n OF | \pril, 



synonymy. Previously the following names bave been found to 

 l>c synonyms of borealis: americana Han-is, 1835; brevipennia Ser- 

 ville, 1839; longipennis Scudder, 1862, and dolumbia Scudder, L869. 



In the present Bpecies some variation is shown in the shape of the 

 ocelli and in the tegminal venation. 



Materia] from Florida and southern Georgia averages somewhat 



-mailer than material from more northern points; the smallest adult 

 specimen of the species we have ever seen is that from Billy's Island, 

 < leorgia, the measurements of which are: length of body 20. I. of pro- 

 notum 7.2, of tegmen 6.4, of caudal femur 6, and greatest width of 

 pronotum 5.7 mm. 



Females of the species have been taken much more frequently 

 than males and the brachypterous condition is more frequently 

 found in both sexes in the region at present under consideration. 



Scapteriscus vicinus Scudder. PI. XIV, figs, t, 5, 8, 7. 



L869. Scapteri8cua agassizii Scudder, Mem. Peabody Acad. Sci., 1. p 13. 

 Switzerland (introduced from Central America?).] 



Georgia. Brunswick, II, 5, 1903j (S. W. Good- 



Waycross, X. 20, 1914, (W. Tatum, year) 3 c^ 1 9 , 1 .iuv., il\ S X. .\1. 



Jr 1 iuv [TJ S X M | ;iml Hebard Cm.]; IV. is, 1912, 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.; in sandy ,w - Y- R&A), } o", 49, (''• 8. 



soil in garden, associated with «. M.J; XI, 190/, 1 <?, [Ga. Mate 



S acletus,D\it very scarce)", 2 o", 29. .-, ,K , T , , ,-,,, 



St. Simon's Island, IV, 22 to IX. 8, Cumberland Island. Mil. 31, 1911, 



1909 to 1911, .1. C. Bradley), 3 <?, ( H -5 ^erlog on strand), lmv. 



t .. I iuv ; (W.V. Heed i. '.)>, 3 9, wbte Oak, X. 1904, (A. S. Barn- 



1 juv.. [Hebard Cln.]. well )» l °*. I 1 ■ s - N - M -l- 

 St. Simon's, St. Simon's Island, III. 18, 



1912,(W.V.Reed),6 9,[U.S.N.M.]. 



After careful consideration of very large series, representing every 

 species of the presenl genus, we are satisfied that the specie- found 

 abundantly in the southeastern United States, the West Indies 

 and portions of South America, and which lias been frequently 

 recorded as S. didactylus, represents instead vicinus of Scudder. This 

 species is very closely related to didactylus of Latreille (described 

 from Surinam and found elsewhere in South America and northward 

 to Costa Rica), but is somewhat heavier, with the width of the 

 pronotum distinctly greater in proportion to its length and with 

 the basal width between the tibial dactyls averaging somewhat less. 

 The species is, however, not nearly as distinct as Scudder believed, 

 for the characters of the but little dissimilar ocelli, slightly different, 

 terminal tarsal joint- of the caudal tibiae and other differences which 

 he gives in the original description are practically valueless. 



The species, agassizii, described by that author on the following 




L916.] NATURAL S< [EN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA 279 



page of the same work, is a synonym of vicinus, based on minor 

 differences in these characters, which in each of the many series 

 before us -how some sueh slight differentiation. 



This species is a serious pesl in portion- of the State of Georgia; 

 at Darien, in L906, the insects destroyed :t great portion of the grass 

 on the golf course. 13 * 



Scapteriscus acletus' 1 ' oew species. PI. XIV. figs B, 9, LO, 11. 



Closely related to S. mexicanus? differing 1 : in the shorter dactyls 

 and spines of the limbs, normally fewer spines of the dorso-internal 

 margins of the caudal tibiae, 138 shorter limbs and much less com- 

 pressed terminal tarsal joints of the caudal tibiae in this species uo 

 wider than the caudal metatarsus, in mexicanus distinctly wider with 

 dorsal portion decidedly compressed). The present species and 

 mexicanus agree, however, in the wide separation of the tibial dactyls, 

 the elongate pronotum and decidedly elongate lateral ocelli, which 

 characters readily distinguish them from S. vicinus, from which 

 species the present insect also differs greatly in color pattern of the 

 pronotum, general coloration in life and narrower terminal tarsal 

 joint of caudal tibiae. 



Considering S. abbreviatus, the remaining species of the genus 

 found within the boundaries of the United State-, we find it to be 

 readily distinguishable from vicinus, adetus and mexicanus by the 

 distinctive coloratiou (which gives the insect a strongly mottled 

 appearance . small round lateral ocelli and extremely reduced 

 mina and wings. The elongate and widely separated tibial dactyls, 

 and spatula with distal portion of ventral margin briefly chitinous 

 and with disto-ventral angle nearly rectangulate ami sharply rounded 

 in abbreviatus, serve further to indicate that in linear arrangement 

 Mine- first, followed by didactylus, acletus, mexicanus ami 



ahhr> i in' 



Noted b> Hebard, Bi I V< \X. p !7''. 19 



1 ruin a ■ oot, and ' "■• welcome; in allusion to the destructive habit 



I N ribed by Burmeister, Handb. Entom., II, Abth II, pt. 1, p. 740, 18 



• ido, Mexico.] 



I !• ■ ■ comparisons arc made with an apparently typical female of ■■ 

 M»l XIV, figa 12, 13, 14 and l"> from Durango, Mexico in the Hebard Collection, 

 tin measurements (in millimeters of which are: length "i l""l\. 36, ol pronotum 

 II I. of tegmen 19.2, of wing 26.6, of longest tibial dactyl 5-1, of caudal femur 

 12.5, of terminal tarsal j<>m' ol caudal tibia ■'• 1: width <>i pronotum s • 

 terminal tarsal joinl <>f caudal tibia 1.6. Two other similar fem before 



iring only tin- .1 i ■ : Mexico." 



h. ■ described as 5 5 io number, and tin- i- true 



for th<- specimens of that us ' 




280 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE LCADEMY OF \pril. 



Type: cP; Hebardville, Ware County, Georgia. May l">. L915. 

 M. Hebard; in garden.) [Hebard Collection. Type No. M)6.] 



Description of Type. Size medium, form rather slender. Head 

 with Lateral ocelli over twice as long as broad, in direction convergent 

 meso-costad, separated at nearesl point by a space twice the length 

 of one ocellus. 1 ■> ' - Bomewhal more elongate than in vicinus, 

 Tegmina similar to vicinus, bu1 with veins not as heavy and cross- 

 veinlets fewer. Wings reaching slightly beyond apex of abdomen. 

 Limb proportions much as in vicinus. Dactyls of cephalic tibiae 

 separated by a -pace equal to basal width of one of these dactyls. 

 Spatula with distal half of ventral margin chitinous, straight, the 

 disto-ventral angle nearly rectangulate and sharply rounded. 

 Median tibise armed interno-distad with four heavy spurs. Caudal 

 tibia? with ventro-internaJ margins each hearing four long spines, 

 the last situated very slightly proximad of the three long distal 

 -purs, disto-external margin armed with three short spurs, the dorsal 

 widely separated from the other two. Distal joint of caudal tarsus 

 -lender, no wider than metatarsus with dorsal margin not noticeably 

 compressed. Coloration distinctive. 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Similar to type in characters common to 

 both sexes. Tegmina similar to vicinus, but, as in male, with veins 

 not as heavy and cross-veinlets fewer. Wings reaching slightly 

 beyond apex of abdomen. 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us a series 

 bearing the same data and material taken at the same locality from 

 May 15 to 31, 1915, by William Walker; these specimens, 26 d\ 

 25 9 , may be considered paratypes. 



This paratypic series -hows that the species exhibits considerable 

 size variation, the average of the majority of specimens, however, 

 approximate- the types in this respect. Both intensive and recessive 

 color patterns are developed, and the tegminal veins and veinlets 

 are sometimes heavier than in the typical condition. Decided 

 uniformity is found in the shape of the lateral ocelli, length and 

 -eparation of the tibial dactyl- and form of distal joint of caudal 

 tarsus. In eighty uninjured specimens the number of -pine- of the 

 dorso-internal margin- of the caudal tibia' are :i- follows: 



Number of spines 3-4 4-4 4-5 5-5 



Number of specimens 1 66 8 5 



In one specimen having 5-5 spines, one of these spines is bifurcate. 




1916.] NATURAL BCIENi ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2s 1 



Slight differences in ocellar form, occasional appearance of an 

 accessory spine on one or both of the dorse-internal matins of the 

 caudal tibiae and alight differences in the separation of the tibial 

 dactyl- and in the width of the distal joint of the caudal tarsus, 

 cannot be used as features to separate species of this genus, as dis- 

 cussed above in the treatment of vicinus. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



<? 9 



type Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 28 7 26 1 -34 t 29 7 



Length of pronotum '.• :; 8 8 1 1 3 9.3 8 5 10 3 



Width of pronotu 7.3 6.4r- 8.9 7.1 6.6- 8 3 



Length of tegmen 117 L4.6-17.8 15 2 15 L9 2 



Length of wing 19.6 19 6 24 3 21 7 20 5 26 1 



Longest tibial dactyl 3 6 I 3- 4 3 l l0 3 I I I 



Length of caudal femur L0.3 10-11.7 Hit', 10.2-12 

 Length of terminal tarsal joint of 



idal tibia 2.7 2.7 2 6 2 8 



Width of same 8 .7- 1 8 8 9 



' oloration. Normal condition (type, allotype). General col.. ra- 

 tion pinkish buff. Head with occiput including raised portion of 

 inter-ocular space blackish brown, a brief space of the same color 

 hack of the eyes, but separated from them by a narrow interval of i he 

 pale genera] coloration. Pronotum with dorsum marked with an 

 oval of blackish brown, this interrupted cephalad and mesad by 

 rounded incursions from each side of the general pinkish buff colora- 

 tion, these cephalic indentations weakly connected, the ma ruin- of tin- 

 dark area concave in tlnir caudal fifth. Tegmina and wings buffy 

 with veins darker. Caudal femora ol general coloration, but with 

 all except the proximal fourth of dorso-external portion suffused with 

 i darker shade. Abdomen dark above, pale below (in life shining 

 grayish below, contrasting strongly with vicinus, which in life has this 

 portion of the body Bhining cinnamon buff . 



An intensive coloration i- found in numerous specimens in which 



the darker markings are all deeper and more extensive, the whole 



dorsal surface ol the pronotum being blackish brown, with the 



ption of four -mall pale -pot- in apposition to the rounded 



incursions of paler coloration as found m the normal condition. 



' taring to » f i « - impossibility <>f determining the lateral margins of the dorsum 

 of ili" pronotum in tne present genus, 'In- measurement indicate olute 



wi<lili df the pronotum. 



The iiiiiniiiuiri measurements f<>r these dart y In represenl wperimens in 

 which these claws are worn down and t > 1 1 1 n r < •< 1 by much use Tin- i- inn- of the 

 presenl specimen ' 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF NIK aOADEMl 01 [April, 



All gradations arc found, however, to a recessive condition in which 

 the dark markings are much reduced, the incursions <>l pale coloration 

 being considerable, leaving only natron proportions of the dark 

 color laterad between them. 



The large series <>!' immature examples taken with the typical 

 series are. with few exceptions, in the instars immediately preceding 

 maturity. In these the coloration averages slightly more recessive 



than in the adult-. 



Biological Notes. At the type locality the species wa- found in 

 great numbers in sandy soil. Tunnels recently made were everywhere 

 apparent . 1 )igging into these and t he flooding of such area- revealed 

 lew example-, hut a row of lettuce in a dying condition wa- inves- 

 tigated, and beneath the wilted leaves, resting on the ground at the 

 base "f these plants, many specimens were found. The root- <>i th< 

 lettuce and other garden plants, such as tomatoes and beets, were 

 found to have been extensively damaged by the present insect, in 

 many cases all hut the main tap root having been completely 

 devoured. 



When disturbed individuals always sought, if possible, to escape 

 under the ground, disappearing in the sandy soil with astonishing 

 rapidity; on the surface they could run very nimbly, occasionally 

 giving a short hop. but not attempting to fly. There is no doubt, 

 however, that both this species and riciirus can fly vigorously, and 

 during migrations, which undoubtedly occur, probably resort almost 

 wholly to this method of locomotion. 



At night the rich gutteral "grrrrr"of the insect could be heard on 

 all sides, but no individuals were found on the exposed surface of 

 the ground. 



Specimens Examined: 83; 28 males, .30 females and 25 immature 

 individual-. 



Jesup, Georgia, V, 15, 1915, 'II.: in burrow under board in grassy 

 field), 1 ? : X. 1. 1910. 1 9, [Ga. State Cm.]. 



Hebardville, ( ia.. V, b~>, 1915, (H.; in sandy soil of garden), 19 d\ 

 189, type, allotype, paratypes, b! juv.; V, 15 to 31, 1915, (Wm, 

 Walker), 7 o", 99, paratypes, 12 juv., [all Hebard Cm.]. 



White Oak, Ga., III. 23 and IV, 1904, (A. S. Barnwell), 2 <?, 19, 

 [U. S. X. M. and Bebard Cm.]. 



Scapteriscus abbreviatus Scudder. PI. XIV, f'u;s. it;, 17, 18, 19. 



White o ;i k, Georgia, IV. 1904, \. 8. Lemon City, Florida, (E. J. Brown , 

 Barnwell . l \ l '.■ . [U. S. N. M. 2 juv., [U, 8. N. M.]. 

 and Hebard Cln.]. 




1916. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



The specimens from Georgia, in addition to Three from the same 

 locality previously recorded by us, 141 constitute the only record of 

 this species from the United State- outside of extreme southern 

 Florida. 



Tridactylus apicalis Say. 



1862. T[ridactylu8] terminalis Scudder, Boat. Jour. Nat, Hist., VII, p. )_'.". 

 Cambridg chusetts; Maryland; southern [Hin< 



1 > Irict of < olutnbia. jia. 



Washington, IX. 1883, 1 '. Hebard Bainbridge, IV 17 to X. 19, 1910, 



Chi ; . .1 C. Bradlej . 1 '. 



Rock Creek, 1 7. [1'. S. X. M.]. - ring Creek, Decatur County, V, « 



Virainia l9n - ' ' ■ :: " ,v : Vl1 ' l6 '" 



. Virginia. 29, 1912, 71 . 31 .. 5 juv.; Mil. 



ird < ounty opposite Fredericks- 26 to 28 1913 1 I ill I C 



burg,VH,20, 1913, R & II ; wet sand Bradley ! 



near Rappahannock River), 3 juv. 



We are convinced, after study of the literature and all of the 

 material in our collections, that terminalis of Scudder i- an absolute 

 synonym of the present species, based 3olely upon large specimens 



of pale coloration. We are also satisfied that Scudder has correctly 



synonymized under these two names the following: tibialis Guerin, 

 1MI: Xya mixta Haldemann, L853; illinoiensis Thomas, 1863 

 Saussure, 1874, and incertus Saussure, 1896. The great 

 variation in the form of the cephalic limbs in the male- of the species 

 discussed by Morse bas in part caused this multiplicity of synonyms. 



The large series of male- before us from Spring Creek, Georgia, 

 -hows the same variability of the cephalic tibiae which Morse bas re- 

 marked, and we find every gradation between the extreme-: roughly 

 iped, sixteen have the tibiae of the normal form, eight have 



them very slightly cleft; sixteen have them decidedly and thirty-five 

 very strongly bifurcate. A further interesting feature i- apparent in 

 this series, for with scarcely an exception the specimens having these 

 tibiae least specialized are the smallest averaging in length 7 mm. . 

 and throughout the series a distinct size increase accompanies the 

 ter specialization of the tibiae to it- maximum development 



• -e specimens averaging in length 9 mm. . 



When compared with the males, the females of this series are found 

 oticeably paler in general coloration. 



The material before us -how- that the wings normally reach a 

 little beyond the apex of the abdomen; occasional series have the 

 wings falling slightly Bhort of this point. 



\. id N m >• i I'm. \ . 1912, p 272, ldl2 \ 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF nil: \r\i>K\n 01 [April, 



Ellipes minuta (Scudder). 



D strict of Columbia, South Carolina. 



Washington, (Aldrich), 39, [Hebard Spartanburg, VIII, in. 1903, \ I'. 



( •),, I Morsci, 1 adult, 2 juv. 



Manning, V, 30, L91 1. I \\ , Stone), 



1 irgtnta. 1 d\ 1 9 . [A. X S P.] 



Stafford County opposite Fredericks- Georgia 



burg, VII. -j... 1913, (R. & II,: wel „„,.„ , ,,.,., v ,, ,,„, (J ( . 

 Band near Rappahannock River), Bradlevl I 



1 " - • • l J ,lv - Rabun Coiintyj \ II. L910, (W. T. 



v ., ,. i Davis), 1 9. 



Narth Carolina. Jasper, VII, 25, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (K & EL.; on l adult. 



ground in heavy fores! near stream), Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



19. 1913, (H.; few on damp sand at edge 



Goldsboro, VII. 25, 1913, (R. & EL.; of bog at base of cliff), 1 juv. 



damp ground in short-leaf pine Waycross, VIII, 11, 1903, (A. P. 



woods), 1 d". Morse), 1 adult. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.; Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.j 



on wet and almosl bare clayey swampy spot on edge of Flint River), 



ground . 2 \ 5 9,4 juv. 1 9 . 



Balsam, VII, 23, 1903, (A. P. Morse), Spring Creek, Decatur Count v, VII, 



2 adults. 16 to 29, 1912, (J. C. Iiradley), 2 o". 



We are certain that Scudder has correctly synonymized Tridactylus 

 histrionicus and T. histrio of Saussure. lsiiti, under the present species. 

 All of the large series before us show t he presence or absence of minute 

 subapical natatory lamellae on the dorsal margins of the caudal 

 tibia' to be due to individual variation. The maximum number of 

 these in the present species is two on the external and one on the 

 internal margin, a feature noted by Saussure in his description of 

 histrio, while his histrionicus represents material lacking these 

 rather rudimentary appendages; minuta was at that time overlooked 

 by Saussure. 



But one specimen in the series here recorded, from Spring Creek. 

 Georgia, is macropterous; the larger series before us show occasional 

 specimens in this condition, some which are semi-macropterous, 

 while many, a- in the present series, have the wings wholly concealed 

 by the tegmina. 



This inseel is found on wet <am\ near water, often in great numbers, 

 over the entire territory at present under consideration. 

 Myrmecophila pergandei Bruner. 

 Retreat, North Carolina, VIII, (i, II 1 d\ 19. 



G.Hubbard),! ?, [U. 8. N. M.]. Clayton, Georgia, VI, 1909, (W. T. 

 Balsam, X C., VII, _':;. 1903, A I'. Davis), 1 juv. \ 1 juv. 9. 

 Morse .1 '.1 juv. ; 1,500 405,700 Crescenl City, Florida, 1 juv <?, [He- 

 feet, VII, 24, ]'->ir.;. (A. I'. Morse . bard Cln.]. 



This species was described from the "Atlantic States, from Mary- 

 land southward," it ha- since been recorded from Washington, 

 District of Columbia, and Georgia, over the area here considered. 




1916.] NATURAL BCEEOT BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



The study of the presenl genus by Schimmer 142 is by far the most 

 complete work on the subjecl to be found in the literature. 



Paratypes from Washington were taken with Cremastogaster lineo- 



laia Say and Formica pallidefulva Latreille. The specimens from 



Balsam were with < 'arnponotushercuU anus Linnaeus subspecies /» nnsyl- 



cus D< Geer, and those from < Ilayton with Cn mastogasU r lineolata 



Say variety near pilosa Pergande. 148 



Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redtenbacher). 



South Carolina. Tybee [aland, VII, 26, 1913, J C 



Isle of Palms, VIII. 15, 1913, R.; Bradley), 11 «, 19, 1 juv. 



beaten from baybeny, Myrica cerif- ' J" v - 9 ■ 



i (f io 9 i uv o St. Simons Island, x III. 5, 1912, 



" ' ' J .1 I Bradl< \ . I 



""■ Billy's Island, V, 28 to VII, 2, 1912, 



Montgomery, VII, 27. 1913, [J. C. .1 C. Bradley), 1 - . 

 Bradley .1 



This species has been fully treated by the presenl authors; 144 in 

 that paper the record- from Miami (under bark of fallen trees) and 

 Lake Worth on sand), Florida. 11 were overlooked. 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum Rehn and Hebard. 



Virginia. Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, R & II : 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, R & II '"•'"" , '""" undergrowth 



undergrowth m heavy oak woods . '" '" t1 ' 1 ' short-leal pinevi I- 



1 iuv '•'> Juv. 9. 



J ' Savannah, VIII. 1 1. L903, \ P 

 North Carolina. Morse .1 '. -19. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R a II Warm Springs,' 850 to 1,200 feet, VII, 

 1 jir. 9 and 10, 1913, i R.. . 2 juv. ', 



South Carolina. 4 >" v ?• , tiil .. ., . .. 



( i i \ ii . ,, , • ii i . Albany, VIII, 1. 1913, R & H 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (H.; beaten t fe ,„„,„„,„ ,„ tangles of small 



from heavy green undergrowth in bughea ftnd vmi ., m ,-„,.., 



short-leal pme forest on hillside . along bankfl nf ,,,„„ R 



1 JUV - ' • , » iuv. ". 6 jui 



Spring Creek, VIII, 26 to 28, 1913 

 \ irinity <>f Stone Mountain, VIII, 3. i < • Bradley ,3 ". I ■ 



1913, (R. .v II ; beaten from tangled Billy's Island, IV 1 to 5, 1913, J ' 

 undergrowth <>t short-leaf pine Brad 



foresl . 2 jm 



The known distribution of the presenl Bpeciea i- carried con- 

 siderably inland, westward and northward, by the abov€ records. 



/ Zool . V III. pp i"' 1 534, 1909 

 lli.' identifications of the ant host* given here have I n m<>-i kindly fur- 

 nished l>y Professor \\m M Wheeler Bruner, with the original descriptu 

 the presenl Bpecies, gives the ant hosts as ( ' 



■ i < ineolata. His Formica rufa determination is based on 



the specimens correctly recorded ab " 



Pro* Vcao \'w Sci Phila, 1912, pp 196-201, figi 5-8, 1912 

 Mrs. A. T. Slossoi ' ' \ 1 1 i> 1 1. 



1901 ' 




286 PROCEEDINGS <»i PHE LCAOEM1 <»K I April. 



The insecl reaches maturity about the middle of Augus1 over a large 

 portion of its range. 



Cycloptilum squamosum Bcudder. 



Worth Carolina. Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, •'>, 1913, i: 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (B & H.), undergrowth of pine wood I 



I juv. 9. j"v.9. 



Vicinity ot Stone Mountain, X III. 3, 



South Carolina. • ^\Z, (R. & II.; beaten from tangled 



Spartanburg, VIII, »i. I'M.;, II ■ undergrowth <>t' pine forest . I 



undergrowth of mixed deciduous and juv. 



pine forest), 2 juv. 9 . Macon, VII, 30 31, 1913, (R. & II . 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & 11.: few immature individuals in oak 



immature individuals very abundant leaves on edge of oak and short-leaf 



among pine ueedles in long-leaf pine woods), '_' juv. \ 1 juv. 9. 



pine woods), 1 juv. f, 2 juv. 9. Warm Springs, 850 to 1,200 feet, VIII, 



9 in. 1913, 1 1! : beaten in pine and 



Georgia. ,,.,], WO ods), 1 cr", 3 9,2 juv. 9 . 



Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 4-5, 1913, Albany, VIII, I, 1913, (R. & II . 



II .2 juv. 9. 1 juv. 



This species has been fully treated by the presenl authors. 1 " 

 it is now known to range northward to East Marion, Long Island. 

 N.w York." 7 



NEMOBIUS ServiUe. 



The species of the present genus found in North America north 

 of the [sthmus of Panama have been fully treated by the presenl 

 junior author. 148 In that paper nearly all of the material in the 

 collections now before us, taken previous to 1913, was recorded. 

 The localities for these series are first given below, then the subse- 

 quent records are given in full with whatever comments appear of 

 interesi , 



Nemobius fasciatus fasciatus (DeGeer). 



Chestertown, Beltsville, Montgomery County, Plummer's Island 

 and Hyattsville, Maryland; Washington, District of Columbia: 

 Fairfax County, Falls Church. Rosslyn and Bayville, Virginia; 

 Jefferson, Cranberry, Grandfather Mountain, Blowing Hock, Black 

 Mountain, Asheville, Mount Pisgah, Balsam and Waynesville, North 

 Carolina, and Atlanta and Thompson'-: Mills, Georgia. 



Virginia. 



Fredericksburg, VII. 20, L913, (R. & Lynchburg, VII, 22. 1913, (R. & II 



II . .", ',7 9,2 juv. d\ 1 juv. d\ 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & B.), Petersburg, VII, 2:;. L913, (R. & II 



1 juv. cT. 1 juv. 9 . 



»«Pbo< . \< m». Nat. S< i. Phila., 1912, pp. 209 21 1, li«s. 17-19, (1912). 

 Davis, Jour. N. Y. /-;»'. Soc, XXII, p. 171, (1914). 

 Pboc. \< id. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, pp. 394 192, (1913). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. - v 7 



North ('a roli mi. Georgia. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, R. & II .), Rabun County, VII. run. ■ \\ . T 



_' juv. <j\ I >avis . 1 juv. 9 . 



Charlotte, VII, 27. 1913, II. & H. . Toccoa, VIII, t 5, L913, II .), 1 juv. 9 . 



1 cf, 1 9. Jasper, VIII. 5, 1913, (R.), 1 9, 



,, , . 1 juv. cT. 



.Simth ( arolina, ... J . ,•,,, ., , .■ 1nl -> ,i> n„.. 



Atlanta, X III. 2 and 6, 1913, [Bradley 

 Spartanburg, Mil. 6, 1913, II .), andR.&H.),3d\ 1 d" macropterous 



I juv. 9 . 



In late .July. 1913, immature individuals of the species were found 

 everywhere very numerous in Gelds in the Piedmonl region of Virginia 

 and North ( 'arolina. 



Immature individuals of the races of this species are easily separable 

 from those of other southeastern species of the genus, as they alone 

 have a medio-longitudinal dorsal dark stripe od the abdomen, down 

 the centre of which an often well-defined very narrow pale line is 

 usually found. In addition, the lateral lobes of the pronotum are 

 usually heavily marked with a broad dark hand, which is often 

 continued on the sides of the abdomen. 



Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



Raleigh, Newbern, Fayetteville, Hamlet, hake Waccamaw, 

 Wilmington, Winter Park, Southporl and Smith Island, North < !aro- 

 lina; north end of Sullivan Island and Yemassee, South Carolina; 

 Tybee Island, Brunswick, ( Jumberland I -kind. Billy's Island, Homer- 

 ville, Thomasville and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Atlantic Beach, 

 Pablo Beach and Jacksonville, Florida. 



Goldsboro, North Carolina, VII, 25, Macon, Ga., VII, 30-31, L913, R & 



1913, (R. <v II I I 9. lit! 



August G rgia, VII, 29, 1913, R. A Ubany, Ga., VIII, 1, 1913, R &H 



II : common, untilled field among 29,1 juv. '. 1 " macrop- 

 gra terous. 



Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 Districl of Columbia; Fairfax County, Alexandria County, Cherry- 

 dale and Dead Run, Virginia, and Raleigh, North ('arolina. 



n John Run, Maryland, l\. 191 1. Weldon, North < larolina, \ 11,24, 1913, 

 \\ I Davie I ll bard Cln R All I [ui 



li ricksburg, \ irginia, \ 11,20, 1913, Pinnacle Peak, Rabun < iountj I 

 I: am I jui , 2 ju \ III. 20 1913, J I Bi dl< 



Petei burg, Va., VII, 23, 1913, R. & Vicinitj ji i Mountain, ' 



II . t juv. . i jui \ III. 3, 1913 M . i ]w 



Immature individuals of this species are readily separable from those 

 of other forms found in this territory. They are brownish, somewhal 

 mottled with a paler color, and have the Intend lobes of the pronotum 

 occasionally darkened. Confusion with material of the early instate 




288 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY Of [April, 



of N. carolinus would alone be possible, and the unequal dorsal pair 

 of distal spurs of the caudal tibise readily separates then from these. 



The series recorded above was found scarce on banks of stream in 

 woods (Fredericksburg), not scarce in boggj spol of grasses in woods 

 Petersburg), along stream in heavy foresl (Weldon) and in bog a1 

 foot of precipice (vicinity of Stone Mountain). 



The species was not previously correctly recorded 149 from the 

 southeastern United states south of the vicinity of Washington, 

 except from Raleigh, North Carolina. 

 Nemobiue griseus funeralis Hart. 

 Macon, < leorgia, VII, 30, 31, 1913, (R. & II.). 1 9. 



It is with great satisfaction that wc find a specimen of this dis- 

 tinctive insect, known previously from the unique female type taken 

 :0 College Station, Texas, in the material from Georgia before us. 

 We find, moreover, a male, taken at YVinslow, Arkansas, September 

 3, 1 DO"), by Morse, in the Morse Collection. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Window, Macon, 



Ark. Ga. 



Length of body 8.9 9.2 



Length <»f pronotum 2 1.9 



< !audal width of pronotum 2.6 2.4 



Length of tegmerj 5.8 3.8 



Length of caudal femur 6.6 6 



Greatest width of caudal femur . 2.3 2 



Length of ovipositor 4.4 



Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



Florence. South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Jesup, Spring Creek, 

 Thomasville, Homerville, Suwannee ( !reek, Billy's Island, Honey 

 Island. St. Simon's Island and Cumberland Island, Georgia, and 

 .Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, San Pablo, Live Oak 

 and Georgia State Line of Leon County, Florida. 



Gem-oia Bulv ' fl Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 9. 



Rabun County, VII. 1910, (W. T. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, R & H.), 5 d\ 



Davis), 1 o". 69. 



Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, L913, (H.), 2 Spring Creek, VIII, 26-28, 1913, (J. C. 



juv. /. Bradley), 2 o", 19. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 d% 



19,1 juv. cf . Florida. 



Mixon's Hammock, V, 16, L915, (H.), Ortega, IX. 6, L913, (W. T. Davis), 



1 . I 



-• cimens of N. fasdatus from Jefferson, North Carolina, now before us, 

 were incorrectly recorded by Sherman and Brimley as .V. macukUw (Ent. News, 

 XXII, p. 391, 1911)). 




1916.] NATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



A female from Billy's Island and one from Albany are Mack in 

 genera] coloration. Immature individual- arc brown in general 

 coloration, often tinged with reddish and flecked with darker brown; 

 the distinctive cephalic markings are as well defined as in the adult 

 condition. 



The series recorded above was found in the undergrowth of the 

 long-leaf pine woods (Hebardville, Albany), in dry leaves under live 

 oak (Mixon's Hammock) and immature individuals were found 

 occasional in <>ak Leaves Toccoa). 



The records given above include the northernmost localities known 

 for the species. 



Nemobius bruneri II. bard. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 District of Columbia, and Glencarlyn, Virginia. 



Virginia. Orange, VII, 20, L913, (R. X- II. . 

 Etoaslyn, X. I I. A X. Caudell), 3 rf 1 , - i" v - <?■ 



[U. S. X. M.]. x,,,.//, Carolina. 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, II. . 1 juv. \ ,;,.,.,.„.,„„,, X|1 ,,, ,.,,.. ,. & „ 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R- A m?&£ Vn • >- roe- □ > □ 

 II . I juv. ',2juv.9. Charlotte, VII, 27, P.M.,. R. & II 



[mmature individuals of this species are very striking, being pale 

 reddish brown in general coloration speckled with much darker 



brown, by which dark color the lateral lobe- of the pronotum and 

 firsl and fifth abdominal segments an- heavily suffused. These 

 latter markings give a distinctive barred appearance in very young 

 individuals, which becomes less strongly defined in successive instars 

 to those preceding maturity, in which these markings are not Btrongly 



indicated. 



The species Was found abundant in damp leave- m ami along tin 



border of a deciduous woodland on high ground near a stream 

 (Fredericksburg) and searce in leaves <>n edge "i a deciduous foresl 

 (Orangi . 



Xo other record-, other than those giveu above, have been pub- 

 lished for the species in the territory at present 'inder consideration. 



Nemobius cubensis cabemis 



Montgomery County, Maryland; Washington, Districl of Colum- 

 bia; Raleigh, North Carolina; Florence, South Carolina; Jesup, 

 < Seorgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



Albany, Georgia, VIII, 1, 1913, R a Bainbridge, Ga., VII, L5-27, 1909 

 II All brachypfc i J.C Bi idlej . 1 V Macropfo 




290 PRO< i i IDING8 OF Tin: A.CADEIC1 OF [April, 



The species was found occasional in swampy spots (Albany). 



The above records include all the localities known for the species 

 ovei the territory a1 present considered. The species has been found 

 as far aorth as States Island, New York, and southward appears to 

 reach its greatest abundance in theUnited States in peninsular Florida. 



Nemobius palustris palustris BUtchley. 



Washington, District of Columbia, and Fayetteville, Lake Wacca- 

 niaw and Wilmington, North Carolina. 



These, 6he southernmost-known records for this insect, include 

 all the localities known for it over the area now being studied. 



Nemobius carolinus carolinus Souddor. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 District of Columbia; Alexandria Comity, Dead Run, Rosslyn, 

 Fairfax County and Falls Church, Virginia; Raleigh, Blowing Rock, 

 Newton, Black Mountain, Balsam, Highlands, Fayetteville and Fake 

 Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence, Swansea and north end of 

 Sullivan Island. South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Brunswick, 

 Thomasville and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Daytona, Florida. 



Virginia. Charlotte, VII, 27, L913, (R. & H.), 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & n \j u J- d,, J'J U oK 9 'ioiQ m i a \ 



,, •),,,,. Goldsboro, \ II, 2o, 1913, (R. & H.), 



n.;, w juv. a ■ 2 o 1 39. 



,. , ,, ,. Georgia. 



Pinnacle Peak, X III, 20, 1013, (J. C. 



Jefferson, IX. 1912, (F. Sherman), Bradley),29. 



1 d\ [N T . C State Dept. Agr. Cln.]. Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. cf- 



Grandfather Mountain, 4,000-5,000 Billy's Island, IX, 1-:,, 1913, (J. C. 



feet, IX. 1915, 1 \ [Hebard Cln.]. Bradley), 1 o". 



BlowingRock, IX. 1915, (F.Sherman), SpringCreek, VII, L6 to VIII, 26, 1912 



1 d\ [N. C Stat. Dept. Agr. Cln.]. and 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 a 71 , 3 9. 



Immature individuals of this species and of N. confusus are more 

 glabrous in general- appearance than any others found in the area 

 here considered. The general color is dark brown, the four rows of 

 large pale spots on the dorsal abdominal segments first appearing 

 in the instars immediately preceding maturity. 



The present common insect is found everywhere over the region 

 now being studied. 



Nemobius confusus BUtchley, 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Dead Run, 

 Falls Church and Alexandria County, Virginia, and Raleigh, North 



' arolina. 



Rabun County, Georgia, VII, L910, Buckhead, Ga v VIII, 2, 1913, (H.; 

 W. T. Davis), '2. juv. /, 1 juv. 9. undergrowth in mixed oak and pine 



forest J, 1 juv. 9 . 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The very dark general coloration of immature examples of this 

 species and the bone .white maxillary palpi, make them readily 

 separable from those of any other species found in the regions here 

 treated. 



In tin- southeastern United State- the species was not previously 

 known except from Raleigh, North Carolina. 



A single immature specnrifeii was found in wood- of oak and pine 

 (Buckhead). 



Anurogryllus muticus (DeGeei 



\ • ./. Florida. 



Ocean View, VI, 11 and 17. mil and Jacksonville, [V, lsv"». \\ 11 \-|,- 



L912, ll.l'nx.J ', [A. N. S. P.]. mead),! . Hebard Cln.]; winter of 



D, ! I dumbia US^M^' " ^""" : " ! ' ' ' 



Washington, (Chittenden), 2 9 , [U. S. Lawtey, X, L2 and 28, 1886, M 



N. M.J. Venickerbocker), '_' juv. ', ■'! juv. ! . 



1 "•'/"""■ i 8. N. M.J. 



I Ilarendon, VI, 8, 1914, (H. A. Allard . Gulf Hammock, Levj County, [V, 7 



1 '. [U. S. N. M.]. 1903, (P Laurenl ,3 juv i . Hebard 



Falls Church, VIII. 1 ?, [U. S. X M Cb 



Charlottesville, V, 26, I'M I. II. Fox . \>r Land, _' iuv. ; . [1 S. V M.]. 



1 '. [Hebard Cln.]. ., , 



Alabama. 



North Carolina. Auburn, \ . 6, 1911, (W. E. Hinda 



Raleigh, V, 30, 1906, I \ I - 19, [U.S. N M.|. 



X. M.J; VI, 1911 t<> l''l.Y I - Daphne, VI, 9, 1894, (L. Sauterre), 2 9 . 



Brimley), 1 \ I . . [Brimley Cln. [U. S. X. M.J. 



and N. C. State Dept. Agr. , 



Louisiana. 



South Carolina. .1,.,,.,. La S: ,ll.- Parish, V, 7. 1887 



Beech Island, V, 14, 1903, Hammond), M Dempsej , 19,[U. S \ M 



1 , [U. s. x. M 



'/'< .rus 



/ "' \ i storia, IV, 24, 1915, (J. I> Mitchell . 



Iville, \ . 15, 1915, II. . I • 29,1 jui I 8 \ M 



This inseel is one of the very plastic and widely distributed 

 American species of the group Gryllites. We find not only guade- 

 hniji, ,,.--i.<, angvMulus and caribeiu to be synonyms of this species, 

 as indicated by Kirby, 1M bul also Gryllodes clara il Saussuri 



which form was later placed in the presenl genus by it- author. Tin- 

 Argentinian variant, of which we have materia] before us, h.i> been 



This Bpecies ha* twice been recorded bj Caudell from the United States in 

 •error aa A. antillarum. See footnote 152 and Proc. 1 \l p 19. 



1904 . Southern United 31 it< 



Correctly recorded l>v Hammond Bull. II. Bur of ESntom., I 9 Depl <>i 

 p. 94, 1904)) 



Recorded a* antillarum with Florida, South Carolina, Virginia and Uab 

 records bj I mdell Bull 1 1. Bur of I Intom . I 8. D 

 \4 



• '■ . II. [» 24 19 



I, Zool , VI, p tu. pi \ III. fig 31, 1874 B 

 Blanca, Argentina.] « 




292 taocEEDiNGS oi phi \< \i>kmy oi [April, 



Beparated from muticus as found in the Guianas, 1 by the head being 

 marked with four pale longitudinal lines and the caudal metatarsus 

 being shorter and broader with dorsal margin more distinctly arcuat< 

 Tin' head marking appears often, though usually not strongly defined, 

 being particularly apparenl in immature examples or adults of pale 

 general coloration, over Dearly the entire distribution of the species. 1 

 Various series show thai the metatarsal length and heaviness is 

 extremely variable in the species, though often uniform in la 

 series from the same general region. 187 Variations in tegminal and 

 wing length, and in the caudal metatarsus, are principally the cause 

 of the above synonymy, though other variations, decidedly puzzling 

 without large series being available for comparison, also occur. 



Within the boundaries of the United States the species shows 

 appreciable differences from material from the Guianas; these 

 differences due, in our opinion, to an adaptation to the different S in 

 environment and climate, but, considering the plasticity of the 



ies, neither sufficiently constant or well marked to warrant 

 recognition of a geographic race. The most noteworthy of these are: 

 the somewhat more evenly rounded and protuberant occiput; slightly 

 weaker inter-antennal protuberance; slightly less prominent eyes; 

 more nearly quadrate dorsum of the pronotum, with caudal margin 

 straight or weakly convex (never weakly Insinuate as in typical 

 mulicus); color frequently decidedly paler, with the pale markimr 

 at the ventro-cephalic angle of the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 usually conspicuous in typical muticus) subobsolete. 



Along the Atlantic coast of the United States the species is usually 

 found to have the metatarsus very slightly longer than is typical, 

 but of similar proportions; specimens from Alabama westward, 

 however, have the metatarsus distinctly shorter and slightly 

 heavier. 



The examples from Victoria, Texas, have the occiput more dis- 

 tinctly striped than in any but Argentinian material before us. 

 ( treat variation in intensity of coloration is shown in the series here 

 recorded; although these specimens average decidedly paler than 

 tropical material of the species, the four adults from Hebardville, 



\ I :■•_'' series now before us from British Guiana appears to be in every 

 typical. 



This marking being less apparenl in adults of intensive coloration, it is not 

 surprising to find few of these in tropical series which are usually 'lark in general 

 coloration. 



We are able to ascertain this fact from very large series now before us from 

 the West Indies, Central and Smith America. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Georgia, are as dark as any specimens before us, but have the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum entirely pale. 



In thf United States the males have the tegmina reaching to, or 

 falling slightly short of, the apex of the abdomen; the t'< males have 

 the tegmina never less than half the abdominal length, frequently 

 about two-thirds thai length, though more variable than the males 

 in this feature. Of the above series two females Washington are 

 macropterous, one female Victoria) has a single caudate but imper- 

 fect wing, while one female (Falls Church) has long tegmina but 

 aborted wings. 



It might seem that geographic race- could l>e recognized, but 

 careful study, of this and much larger tropical American series, 

 shows that variation such :i- discussed above occurs in an endless 

 complexity, and that intermediates of every sort occur between 

 conditions which might easily he supposed, without sufficient material 

 lor comparison, to represent geographic race- or even closely related 

 species. The form of the male titillatores is the same in all of the 

 materia] of the species examined. 



In the United State- adult- of the species appear in April, May 

 and June, later than this individual- arc scarcely ever encountered. 



The present insect ha- long been known to lie very destructive in 

 the southeastern United State-, damaging cotton, tobacco, ~ 

 and white potatoes, strawberries, pea- and other farm product-. 

 The series lure recorded was taken: in fence corner and in truck 

 patch Ocean View), in cotton field (Beech Island and Auburn), 

 on fences and wall- of yard of bermuda grass, stridulating ;it dusk 

 (Hebardville) and injuring strawberries (Lawte^ 



The records given above define the known range of the species in 

 the I nited States. 



Gryllus fi»similis I 



Recent studies have shown this to he the only Dative representative 

 of the genus found iii Americ i [real variation, however, exists 



and we have found the variants to be besl represented by symbol 

 Of these, the following four are found in t he regions ;it present under 

 consideration : 



B, suffused X. (normally d or . ,•. . i.~, to 2 the latter weakly 

 Bcuddt riai 



\ i . normally ;ix l, 1: m 



n and Hebard. Pno< ^cad Nai 8a I'mi \ . 1915, pp 1915). 



- Pro< \> id \ m & i I'm: i . 1915 pp 29 ■ Ufi , 



20 




•_".i| PROCEEDINGS "I PHE H \iu\n OF [April, 



\\ . (normally a or l> but ranging to f, \ bu1 often u), 3; pennsyl- 

 vanii 



AW. (normally <1 but ranging from a to I', w bul often u), 3; luc- 

 tuosus. 



Of these, scuddt nanus is apparently an adaptation to an arenaceous 

 surrounding, it is found locally as far north as Indiana, al the more 

 northern points showing an average less robust form and -mailer 

 size (such material constituting the bases of the names scudderianus, 

 rubens and arenaceus), while in southern Florida and on the Gulf 

 coast an average more robust form and Larger size is developed 

 upon such material firmus was in part founded). 



The other three variants intermingle more generally, though 

 individuals of each occasionally -how the transition toward the 

 scudderianu8 variant. The darkest of these, neglectus, is found in 

 the north, only appearing well denned, in the area here considered, 

 in the Appalachian mountains south as far as their highest points 

 in north Georgia. Over the entire region pennsylvanicus appears 

 generally, hut is the most frequent condition met with on the Pied- 

 mont plateau, while luctuosus is the normal condition everywhere on 

 the coastal plain in the regions here considered. 160 



Material can he grouped for convenience under these variant 

 designations, but in such treatment it must he remembered that 

 nearly every specimen of each series will show different degrees 

 of coloration, femoral and ovipositor length and every other feature, 

 excepting those diagnostic qualities common to all of the variants 



of (',. assi mills. 



In the paper in which these facts are fully treated, the exact con- 

 dition of the material from the collections at present being studied 

 is given, 161 the localities being: Chestertown, Glen Echo and 

 Jennings, Maryland; Washington, District of Columbia: Roslyn, 

 Virginia; Winter Park and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Flor- 

 ence, Sullivan Island and Yemassee, South Carolina; Rabun Bald. 

 Black Rock Mountain, Tuckoluge Creek, Clayton, Atlanta, vicinity 

 of Stone Mountain, Augusta, Jesup, Waycross, Hebardville, Billy's 

 [sland, St . Simon's Island, ( lumberland Island, Fargo, ( Ihester, Bain- 

 bridge and Spring Creek, Georgia, and Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, 

 Burnett's bake and Live Oak, Florida. 



180 It is this condition which the presenl authors had frequently recorded afl 

 G. rubens from tin- southeastern United States 



Pboc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, pp. 305-307, (1915). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -"»."> 



Gryllus domesticus Lit 



This Bpecies, accidentally introduced by man from Europe, baa 

 q recently recorded by us 18s from "< Jarolina " and Roswell, Albany 

 and Thomasville, Georgia, within the territory at present under con- 

 sideration. 



Miogryllus verticalis (Serville). 



The American species of this genua have recently been fully 

 studied and reported upon by the junior author. 103 



Material from the presenl collection- from College Park and 

 Plummer'a [aland, Maryland; Washington, Distrid of Columbia; 

 Fall- Church, Virginia; Raleigh and Goldaboro, North Carolina; 

 Columbia, South Carolina; Clayton, Sand .Mountain, Trenton. Au- 

 gusta, Tybee Esland, Mixon's Bammock in < tkeefenokee Swamp and 

 Billy's Island, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach and Mari- 

 anna, Florida, is treated in that paper. In addition we now have 

 the following specimens: 



Raleigh, North Carolina, late VI, 1911, Bebardville, Georgia, V, 15,1915, II . 

 - Brimlej 29, 1 macropter- 1 juv. .. 1 very small juv. 9 . 



ous,»< [Brimley CL Billy's [sland, Ga., V, L6, 1915, II . 



1 juv. 9. 

 Gryllodes aigillatus fWalker). 



Though not as ye1 known from Florida as far north as the region 

 treated in the presenl paper, this species is apparently rapidly 

 ading it- distribution northward. 



It has been reported by Davis from as far north in Florida as 

 Lakeland, and recently the junior author found it widely distributed 

 in that town, particularly aboul grocery stores, where, on May 21, 

 L915, a single male was taken to verify this observation. 



(Ecanthus niveus fDeOeer). 



Cranberry, North Carolina, VIII, 1896, II Skinner),! '. \ \ .8 P 



This species has been very widely discussed in past literature, 

 principally owing to its economic importance, but very general 

 confusion with both 0. exclamationii and 0. angustipennu prevents 

 the use of the majority of these records in distributional studies. 



"« Pro( \. m. \ \i 8« i I'mi v . 1915, pp 320 322, 191 

 '. ) /•:• Sot . Will, pp mi 121, 1915 

 I'lii- specimen it of particular interest in being the first tnacropteroua 

 Bxample of the species to be reported from temperate regions I <>ur other 

 ipteroua specimens are known from the tropics, the type and three individ- 

 ol the senee ol one hundred and twenty-two examples which were kx 

 the junior author :it the time the genua was revised in the pi imple 



the interna] face of the cephalic tibiae bean a l>in weakly defined tympanum: 

 the measurements are: length of bod] 117. of pronotum ~ ■'•. <>i tegmen I 

 wing 16.7, "i caudal femur 9, of ovipositor 10.3 nun. 




296 



PRCM EEDINGS OF l HE \< \DKMl OF 



[April, 



We know it to lie found dn the Atlantic coasi as far north ;i- Wind- 

 30X, Connecticut. Thompson's Mill-, Georgia, is the only previous 

 definite record tor the southeastern United States. The speciee is 

 both dendrophilous and thamnophilous, appearing usually in greats si 

 numbers in shrubs with pithy branches, in which the females deposit 

 their eggs. 



CEcanthus angustipennis Fitch. 



North Carolina. 

 Raleigh, X. 18, 1905, 1 I : XI. 2. 1904, 

 M. Bentley), 1 . . [both X. C. 



Dept. Am-. Cln.]. 



hern I'm,-. XI, 1908, (A. H. 



Mancci, 2 ; , [N. C. Dept. Alt. and 



Hebard Cln.j. 

 Mounl Airy, XI. It;, 1904, (G M. 



Bentley), 1 9 . (X. ('. Dept. Agr. 



C3n 

 Saluda, VIII, 17, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Balsam, aboul 1,000 feet, IX, 15-18, 



L908, />. I'. Metcalf), 1 9, [X. C. 



Statr Dept. Agr. dn.!. 



South C<in>li nil. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.; in 

 31 foliage), 1 9 . 



0< orgia. 



Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, VIII, 

 20, mi:;. (,i. ('. Bradley), i 9. 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, I'M::. 

 (II.; beaten from luxuriant vegeta- 

 tion, vines, oak shoots, etc., in black- 

 jack woods i 1 juv. <f . 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. A: H.), 



1 juv. C*. 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (K. * II.; 

 heavy undergrowth of gray-bark 



pine forest ), 1 9 . 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. A: H 



1 juv. 9 . 

 De Witt, VII, 25, 1912, 1 9, [Cm. 



State Cln.]. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C 



Bradley), 1 9. 



Hartford, Connecticut, is the most northern location on the Atlantic 

 coasi at which we know the species to occur. Past confusion with 

 dt her species makes distributional studies from the literature, in 

 almost every case, impossible. The species has been taken and 

 recorded by us from as far south as Lakeland, Florida. It has been 

 correctly recorded in the regions under consideration from Bayville, 

 Virginia; Raleigh and Asheville, North Carolina, and Toccoa and 

 Thompson's Mills, Georgia. Like 0. niveus, the species is both den- 

 drophilous and thamnophilous. 



CEcanthus quadripunctatus Beutenmiiller. 



Virginia, 



Fredericksburg, Ml. 20, 1913, (R. & 

 H.; occasional, especially juv., in 



weed- in open), 1 o", 1 9 . 



Cap.- Henry, VII, 2 and IX, 7, 1903, 



A. P. Morse), 2 9. 

 Virginia Beach, VII, 4, 1903, {A I'. 



Morse . 3 d". 

 Appomattox, IX. 0, 1903, (A. P. 



Mora ,19,3 juv. 9. 

 Wvth.-ville. IX. 5, 1903, A P. Morse . 



3 9. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 

 Tarboro, VII, 7, 1903, (A. P. Morse . 



3 o", 2 9. 

 Raleigh, VII, 9, 1903, (A. V. Morse), 



1 cT, 5 9. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 

 Jefferson, IX, 1912, (F. Sherman), 



1 9, [N. C State Dept. Agr.]. 

 Morganton, VII, 12, 1903, (A. 1' 



Morse], 3 cf, 2 9. 




1916. 



NAT! HAL S< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



297 



Saluda, VIII, 17. L903, A. P. Morse , 



1 9. 

 Asheville, VII, 21, 1903, A. P. Moree . 



1 ju\ 



Balsam, 4,(MM» feet, IX. 15-18, 1908, 



Z I'. Metcalf), 1 ?, [N. C. State 



Dept. Agr.]. 

 Wrightsvffle, IX. 7. 1911, II. A- II. . 



6 ',3 9. 

 Winter Park, IX. 7. 1911, H. A B.), 



- 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, I: & 



II I 



i ssee. 

 Roan Mountain Station, IX. :;. 1903, 



\ I'. Morse . 6 <?, 1 9. 



./// ('until na. 



Florence, [X, 6, 1911, I: a II . l . . 

 Columbia, VII, 28, r.'i:;. i;. & u . 



2 -.49. 



<,< orgia. 



Rabun County, VII, L910, W. I '. 



- . I nr.\ 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



II 1 '. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, I'M.;. I:, a II.; 



waste field .1 '.19. 

 Stone Mountain, \ II. 28 L903 \ P 



Morse . 1 juv 

 Bolton, VII, 29, L903, A P. Morse , 



-' •• 

 Jasper, VIII, 5, I'M:; R , l juv. ', 



l juv 



Chickamauga, VII, L0, 1898, H. I.. 



\ iereck . 1 ?, [A. X. S. I'.]. 

 Trenton, VII, L0, L905, \. I'. Morse . 



1 d\ 19. 

 .Macon. \ II, 30-31, I'M:;. R. a B.), 



1 -.5 9. 

 West Point, \ II. 30, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse . 1 d\ 

 Oglethorpe, VII, 1, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 \ 19. 

 Isle of Bope, IX, :;. 1911, R a H. , 



l '■ 

 Tybee [sland, VII, 26, L913, -I C 



Bradley), 1 i ; VIII, 13, 1903, 

 \ I'. Morse . 1 in. 

 BUly'a Island, VI, L912, ..I. C. Brad. 



ley), 2 

 Albany, VIII, 1, I'M:;. I: A II ; 



undergrowth in long-leaf pine fores! I, 



Bainbridge, IX to X, .1. C. Bradley . 



1 i . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d\ 

 Ortega, IX, 27 28 I'M:;. \\ . T. 



Davis . ■"> .1 juv. <?. 

 Newberry, XI, Is. 1911, W. I. 



Davis . I 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, I: All, 



I .19. 

 Tallahassee, VIII, 8, 1903, \ P. 



Morse), l '. 



This, the mosl abundanl species of the presenl genua in the eastern 

 United States, is found almosi everywhere over the regions here 

 considered, it has been correctly recorded from :i- far south in the 

 in United States as Fori Myers, Florida. The insed has been 

 frequently recorded in past literature as other species <■!' the genus'. 

 Tin- species is more nearly terrestrial than any other of the genus 

 here considered; it i- usually found in the open, in weeds and - 

 where it occurs frequently in considerable nmn 1 



In the above series one specimen, from Live Oak, Florida, has the 

 inner antenna) marking greatly reduced, while the outer markings 

 have disappeared. This is very unusual in this species, in which 

 these markings are normally well defined with outline sharp and even. 



CEcanthui nigricomis Walker. 



Mountain Station, IV IV I'M.' I 



\ I' Mors* . i_' i < I Mi •■ ill —'i 



Depl \. 




298 PROCEEDINGS 0] mi. H \i»i.\iv OF [April, 



Blowing Rock, VIII, 1905-1006, (R. S. Linville, VIII. 28, 1006 R 8 Wol- 



Wblgum; I Sherman). 2 '. 19, gum), 1 ', [N. C. State Dept. v.' 



\ < State Dept. \ \\ lynesville, l\. I I. 1009, (Z P 



[father Mountain, 1,000 feet, IX, Metcalf), 2 ', [N. C. State Dept. 



II. 1908, /. I' Metcalf . :i9, \ia\ and Brimley Cln.]. 



\ C.StateDept. \ Montreat, 3,000 feet, IX, 2] 22,1908, 



Z r Metcalf), l v. [Brimley Cln.]. 



In addition to the normally very distinctive coloration of this 

 insect, it may be further distinguished from the allied 0. guadrir 

 ctatus by the heavier pronotum, the greatest width of which 

 more closely approximates the length of the same than in that 

 species, while the head between the eyes i^ weakly hut distinctly 

 depressed, a condition not at all or rarely very weakly indicated 

 in guadripunctatus. 



I tally a few specimens in the present series do not exhibit the very 

 strongly defined normal type of coloration, these have the dark 

 markings slightly paler, while in a single female the color pattern is 

 still more decidedly recessive and only in part indicated. 



We believe the present species to he confined to the Appalachian 

 portion of the regions at present under consideration. It i> widely 

 distributed over the north-central and central-eastern portions of 

 the United State- and is the most abundant species of the genus in 

 southern Ontario. Numerous record- of nigricornis and the synony- 

 mous fasciatus are. however, erroneous. On the Atlantic coast it i- 

 known to occur over but a comparatively limited area north of the 

 territory here studied. The insect is found in weeds and low plants 

 in the open, hut particularly in tangles of raspberry vines; it is usually 

 locally distributed, but very abundant. 



CEcanthus pini Heutenmiiller. 



1911. (Ecanihua nigricornis Rehn and Hebard, (no< of Walker, 1869), 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 649. [Raleigh, North Carolina.] 



Raleigh, X. c. i\. 7 and 22, loot. (C. S. Brimley; upland field and alder- in 

 pine woods . 2 ", , [Hebard Cln.]. 



This species shows nearest relationship to 0. nigricornis, but is 

 somewhat more robust, with coloration and color pattern distinctive 

 and wholly different, with pronotum normally slightly heavier and 

 more nearly quadrate, and with the head between the eyes even 

 more decidedly depressed. The antenna! markings are much as in 

 specimens of that species in which such markings are apparent,; 

 in 0. guadripunctatus these markings are very similar, but with 

 outline more abruptly and evenly defined. 



The pre» nt species, we believe, is wholly arboreal and only found 




1916. 



NATURAL S< [ENCES OF I'HILADF.LriUA. 



_'!)'. I 



in pint' trees, except when moving from one t<> another. Its dis- 

 tribution i- a- yel vny imperfectly known; the species was described 

 from [West Woodstock], Windham County, Connecticut. <>thi-r 

 records from Riverton ami Anglesea, New Jersey; Chestertown, 

 Maryland, ami Brownsville, Texas, do not apply to this species, but 

 ral from the pine-barrens region of New Jersey we know t<> !><• 

 corrett. 



(Ecanthus latipennis Riley. 



nia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, R. & 



II.: weeds in corner -it' field near 



deciduous foresl . 2 \u\ 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R .v II.: very 



scarce in undergrowth of chestnut 



woods , 1 juv. '. 



urg, VII, 22, 1913, R. & II.: 



scarce in undergrowth of pine 



woods), - juv. o". 

 Appomattox, IX, 6, L903, \. P 



Morse ,19. 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon,VH,24, 1913, R.& II : under- 

 growth in low pine woods), _' juv. ', 

 1 ju. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, R. & II : 

 tation in damp places of short- 

 leaf pine v juv. '. I juv. } . 

 vi!lr. IX. 9, I'M I. I: .v II.: 

 beaten from low oak.-- in Bhort-leaf 

 pin<- woods .1 .1 



boro, VII, 26, 1913, R. & II . 

 1 juv 

 Saluda, VIII, 17. 1903, \ P. M 

 1 ju\ 



' arolina. 

 IX. 6, 1911 R. & II : 

 -<tuI> oaks hi short-leaf pine I 



Ashley Junction, VIII. 15, 1913, R ; 

 • 'i from undergrowth in long- 

 leaf pine woods , 1 juv. tf. 



■i in. 



VIII, I. 1913, II.: beaten 



from heavy, low Bcrub oaks , I 



juv. cf. 

 Jasper. VIII, 5, 1913, R.;bi ten from 



scrub . 1 juv. 9 . 

 Sharp Mountain Dear Jasper, VIII, 6 



I'M.;, i; : beaten Er blackberry 



and oak shoots), 1 juv. 

 Buckhead,^ III. 2, 1913, I: & II : oak 



— I j . » . .1 — in oak WOOds), 1 juv. 



1 juv. 9. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7. I'M:;. I: ; 



mi hillside), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Sand Mountain, \ ill. -'.".. 1903 \ P 



Morse . I ju\ ". 1 juv. 9 . 

 Wan.. Springs, VIII, 9 in. L91I 



'J juv ', 1 j I i '- 



Augusta, \ II. 29, 1913, II 

 snoots u. Band area, one 

 l ju\ 



Isle <>i Hope, IV :;. mi I. l: & II 



1 j.r. 



Among the eastern repr< sentatives of the genus the pres( m species 

 i- distinctive in size, form of j >r< »i i« »t i m 1 1 in the males, <•<>!<. niti<>m 

 color pattern and tegminal proportions; in the male the tegmins 

 very wide for the 'J.< mi-. 



insider at ion the present species t.;i- ' 

 recorded only from E^ayville, Virginia; Raleigh, North Carolina, ami 

 Thompson's Mill-. ' It i~. however, widely distributed, 



though local, our experience having found it to prefer 1<»\\ oaks ami 

 oak -hoot- in woodlands. Adults of tin' sp< nol presenl 



until late in the season. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CADBM1 OF [April, 



Neoxabea bipunctata (DoGeer). 



Chestertown, Maryland, \ 111. 26, 1899, E. <i Vanatta), l 9, [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Rabun County, Georgia., VII, 1910, w I Davis), 2 juv. o". 

 Billy's Island, Ga . \ II. 1912, (J. C. Bradley),19. 



The remarkable proximal antenna! joints, pronotum, callosities 

 of the dorsum of the male abdomen, caudal femora with margins 

 unarmed and supplied distad with two and two very small spurs, 

 cerci and subgenital plate in both sexes, constitute only in part the 

 distinctive characters of this extraordinary and, though scarce, widely 

 distributed species. 



On the Atlantic coast it is known from as far north as Portland, 

 Connecticut, the above records being the first for the regions at present 

 under consideration. The species is extremely retiring, living only 

 in the densest tangles of heavy foresl undergrowth, where solitary 

 examples can be found only after long-continued and vigorous 

 heating. 



The Genera of tin Group Anax-iphites. 



In 1S73, 165 Brunner erected the genus Cyrtoxipha, but failed to 

 designate by name any species; the following year Saussure used the 

 name and placed in the genus five species, 166 one of which, gundlachi, 

 Kirby 167 has selected as genotype. The characters upon which 

 Saussure separated the genera Cyrtoxipha and Anaxipha 108 have been 

 proven invalid."'' 1 but we find that t wo species of the former, gundlachi 



and Columbiana, possess characters of generic value to separate them 

 from the other species which have been assigned to these genera. 

 We are consequently obliged to restrict the genus Cyrtoxipha to these 

 two species and to place all the other American forms, hitherto 

 included in this genus, in the genus Anaxipha. This latter genus 

 is as a result found to be very large, the species of which may be 

 divided into several well-marked groups, none of which, however, we 

 feel to be sufficiently differ* nt iated to warrant at present t he erect ion 

 era or subgenera. The type of this genus is pulicaria 

 Burmeister as designated by Kirby, 170 who, however, is in error in 

 synonymizing exigua and pulicaria. The former is a very distinct 



i*Mittheil. Schweiz. Ent. Gesellsch., IV, p. 168, (1873 , 

 !/■ Set, \h ... Rech. Zool., VI, p. 373, 1 1874). 



m. Cat. Orth., II. p. 80, I L906 . 

 I), scribed by thai author in th<- same study. Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., 

 VI, p 370, 1874 . 



Rehn and Hebard, Ent. News, XXIII, p. 111. (1912). 

 § . Cat. Orth., II, p. 86, L906 , 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



form and cannot be considered in the fixation of the type of the 

 genus Anaxipha as it was uo1 one of the originally included species. 

 The genus Fcticicula 171 is monotypic and shows close relationship 

 u, Anaxipha, but it possesses very distinctive characters in the 

 complete absence of auditory foramina on the cephalic tibiae and in 

 structure of the male tegmina. The ovipositor is similar to thai 

 of certain species of Anaxipha and has the margins minuti h serrulate 

 distad. This feature can scarcely be seen with a hand lens and was 

 missed in the original description. 



CYRTOXIPHA Sa lasure. 



Genotype: ( yrtoxipha gundlachi Saussure. 



Bead longitudinal, dorsal surface from behind eyes to dorsal 

 apex of inter-antennal protuberance strongly flattened and but 

 little declivent. Eyes longitudinal, much longer than deep, with 

 dorsal margin no1 raised above plain- of flattened portion, more 

 prominent distad than proximad. Lasl joint of maxillary palpi 

 not a- long as penultimate joint, expanding very strongly distad 

 from base with distal truncation transverse, when flattened ou1 

 nearly forming an equilateral triang i phalic tibia? with auditory 

 foramen open on both faces. (In the two species known, the color 

 i- immaculate and delicate, pale green, bul this lade- almost inva- 

 riably in drying to a pale brown, which is the same as the general 

 coloration in a Dumber of species of Anaxipha. The spines of the 

 dorsal margins of the. caudal tibia? are in these species extremely 

 delicate and little longer than the spaces intervening between their 

 bases. A wingless condition apparently doe- not occur, the wing 

 length, however, is never more than one and one-halt' times the teg* 



initial len_ 



ANAXIPHA 



inaxipha [Gryllus] pulio Burmeister . 



Head vertical, dorsal surface not strongly flattened, strongly 

 declivent from occipul to inter-antennal protuberant 

 vertical, much deeper than long, evenly protuberant. Last joint of 

 maxillary palpi elongate, longer than penultimate joint, distal 

 truncation transverse or oblique. Cephalic tibiae with auditor} 

 foramen open on both face- in winged individual-, in winp 



mples normally present, but rank open, on outei only, 



as in winged material. (Distinctive color patterns are developed 



Rehn, /. \ \I\ p 258, 1903 




302 



PRO! EEDINGS OF ["HE \< \l>i:\11 01 



April, 



in numerous Bpecies. The spines of the caudal femora are shorter 

 than, to much longer than, the spaces intervening between their 

 bases. The majority of the species are winged, with wring length 

 more than twice the tegminal length. Numerous species, however, 

 ■ lop a wingless condition, in several this being the normal stati 



FALCICULA. Rehn. 



I ,. aotype: Falcicula hebardi Rehn. 



Vgrees with Anaxipha, bul the cephalic tibiae possess no auditory 



foramen and the stridulating area of the male tegmina is minute 



In the our species known the general coloration is uniform pale 



brown, the size is very small to minute, a winged condition is nevei 



developed and the caudal tibise arc more swollen than in any known 



species of .1 naxipha.) 



Anaxipha exigua (Say). 



Maryland. 



v.llr. \ HI, L6, (F. Knab), 1 9, 

 - N. M.|. 

 Byattsville, VIII. 2, L908, (F. Knab), 



1 \ I S \. M.]. 

 Plummer's Island, VIII, 16 to IX, 15, 

 1907 to 1909, (Caudell, Fisher, 

 Knab), 2 o", 19, [U. S. N. MJ. 

 Cabin .J. >lm Run, VIII, 7, 1902, (T. 

 Pi rgand ,19, [U. S. N. M.]. 



District of Columbia. 



Washington. VIII to X. ls7s m lss:; 

 m . . [Hebard Cln. and I'. S. 

 N. MJ. 



Virginia. 



Glencarlyn, VIII. 12, (A. X. Caudell), 



i j, ru. s. x. mj. 



Falls Church, IX, I, 1906, (A. X. 



lell), 1 o", 2 9, [U. S. X. MJ. 

 Fredericksburg, V II. 20, 1913, (R.«& 



II. . JUV. -ecu. 



P, ■ rsburg \ II, 22 1913, (H.), 1 <?. 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon, VIII, 24, 1913, (R. & I! . 



•2 juv. o". 

 Raleigh, VIII, 16 to X. 1 I. 1904 



I'M)., (Sherman .-mil Brimley I, 5 <?, 



89, (X. C. State Dept. 

 Fayetteville,IX,9, 191 1. 1 li. & H.),39. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (H.), 1 9. 

 LakeWaccamaw, IX. s, 1911, (H.),lcf • 



South Carolina. 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 <?, 

 79. 



Georgia. 



Toccoa, VIII, 28, 1909, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 cr. 



Lavender, 1 d\ 1 9, [Ga. State Cln.]. 



Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard), 1 9, [U. S. X. MJ. 

 Savannah, VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 o", 39. 

 Albany, VII, 31, 1913, (H.), 19. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, ''I'. J. Priddey), l '. 

 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



The larger size, heavy facial markings and narrow hut decided dark, 

 longitudinal .-tripe of the caudal femora readily distinguish this 

 species from any other found in the United States. 



of the presenl series five females an- long winged (Rockville, 

 Washington, Raleigh, Albany and Jacksonville). These and two 

 females with long tegmina and no wings (Virginia near Washington 



and Thompson's Mill-) have the cephalic tibiae with open auditory 

 foramina on both faces, all of the others have this only on the external 




1916. 



NATURAL BCIEN< ES <>K I'lIILADKLl'li I A. 



303 



face, though a few show a slight depression on the internal face. < !on- 

 siderable size variation is shown, tins having no geographic significance. 



The species is usually found in Luxuriant grasses or weedy tangles, 

 particularly near water, and is often locally very abundant. It was 

 found immature in great numbers in weeds, both along the river 

 and streams in woods i Fr< derick-Uiru), very scarce in sliorl grasses in 

 boggy spol in woods (Petersburg), in undergrowth near stream in 

 foresl (Weldon), in rank weedy undergrowth on wet ground on edge 

 of pine foresl (Fayetteville, Wilmington, Lake Waccamaw), com- 

 mon mi or near the ground in low green vegetation growing on 

 of "branch" filled with deciduous tree- (Florence) and attracted to 

 light in hotel room (Albany I. 



This species is known on the Atlantic coasl as far north as West- 

 brook, Connecticut; it has been correctly recorded westward to 

 Brownsville, Texas. Numerous records of pulicaria from as far aorth- 

 wesl as Cuming County, Nebraska, and the Mississippi River, 

 Minnesota, apply to t bis species. 



Anaxipha pulicaria (Burmeister). PL XIV, fig 20, 



1 •• 

 10 



North Catolina. 

 Raleigh, VII, 8, L903, A. P. Morse . 

 1 ',19. 



South ('ainli mi. 



Florenc. I\ 6 1911, R & II .1 

 Yemassee, l\. 1. I'M I, k. & B.), 

 1 cf. - 



Gt orgia. 



Tybee bland, IX. 2, 19] I. II 



Thomasville, IV, 9, 1904, II I ' 

 Florida. 



.ill. . \ III 16, 1905, R & II . 

 I 



I:, ed [V, 23 1876 I . trpi ol 

 Cyrtoxipha delicalula Scudder, 



\l I V. 



This Bpecies is -mailer, more compact and robusl than .1. exigna, 

 and is immaculate pale brown in coloration. No cephalic markings 

 are found, except in the Brownsville series, where weakly defined 

 darker- markings similar to 1 bose of < xigua appear t figuri 



In this series, those from Fori Reed and Miami and the specimens 

 taken at Brownsville in June are long winged; these have open 



Misideni i : i and Hebard, Pro< \ 



Phii v 1904 p 801, 190 



M widen tificnl • \ Rchn and Hebard, Prcw \- id \\i 



I'hii.v , 1907, p 318, 1907 s 



Miami. 1887, (E. A. Schwarz . I . 

 i S N \l Mrs. A. T. Slosson . 

 I . \I C Z.]. 



'/'- KM. 



Doucette, \ II. 24, 1912, II 

 19. 



ont, \ II. 23, 1912, II 



1 . 



Dickinson, \ II. 20, L91 1 , 1 1 . _' 



2 , 2 juv '. . I'.' 

 Brownsville, \ I. 23, L908, < \. Hart; 



al liL'ln .7 . 7 . HII. Stati 

 \ i| \ II. 31 to \ III. 5, 1912, 

 I : a 1 1 . ■_• i . \ I . _• i 

 1910, I \ Harl I 2 I 

 State Lab. N II 




304 PBOCBBDINOS i: \« \l>i:\n OP [April, 



auditory foramina on l">ili faces of the cephalic tibiae, while all of 

 the other specimens have tin- organ onlj presenl on the external 

 face of these members. 



Wingless females of tin- species are verj similar to the largesl 

 females before us <»t' Falcicula hebardi, but are readily distinguished 

 by tin- presence of auditory foramina on the external tact- of the 

 cephalic tibiae ami. though distinctly more compact than exigua, 



are not as compact as hilxmli. Some variation in the propor- 

 tion- o\ the caudal tibiae is found, and though the Length appear- 

 to vary chiefly with the size of the insect, long-winged individuals 

 indicate thai in these this measurement proportionately averages 

 slightly greater. Extremes in Length of caudal femora in material 

 re n-: wingless, cf 4.1 to 5,9 4 to L9; winged, c? 1.7 to o, 

 9 5 to 5.2 nun. 



This insect does not appear to climb tip in high grasses and weeds 

 a- much a- exigua does, but prefers low grasses, particularly in wet 

 locations. It was taken in undergrowth near a "branch" (Florence), 

 in wet undergrowth of pine wood- (Yemassee, Gainesville), in 

 moderate numbers in low grass on edge of salt, marsh (Tybee Island), 

 in "hammock" near stream (Thomasville), common on swampy 

 ground in tangles of low weeds and some raspberry vines, in woods 

 composed mainly of deciduous tree- i Beaumont) and not common in 

 undergrowth of pine woods (Dickinson). 



The above records define the known limits 171 of the species' dis- 

 tribution in the United States. 175 Numerous records in the literature, 

 of this species from more northern Localities, apply without exception 

 to exigua, which name was for a lonjr time incorrectly referred to 

 t he genus X( mobius. 



Anaxipha vittata (Bolivar). PI. XIV. • 



Albany, Georgia, VIII, 1, 1913, ill.; Punta Gorda, Fla . (Mrs. A. 'I'. Slos- 



foresl undergrowth along edge <>t' son), I I , [M. C. Z.]. 



Flint River), 1 9. Key West, Fla., HI. 15, 1910, II 



Atlantic Beach, Florida, VIII, 24, 1911, in Short, heavj grasses growing in 



II : in tangles oi raspberry vines in open, en Bcanl soil beside .•< wet 



jungle of r;tl>l ).•,._'<• palmetto and Live depression in the Key West oolitic 



. id\ limestone), I 



The authors' previous record of a single specimen from Key West, Florida, 

 ed on the specimen here correctly recorded under A. vittata. 



We have thought besl to record here all of the material of the species before 

 ii- from the United States, in order to correcl and define as fully as possible the 

 distribution of the species in tin- country. 



Misidentified as A. pulicaria by Rehn and Bebard, Pboc. \<w> Nat. S< i. 

 Phii.a.. 1912, p. 274, 1912). 




1916. 



NAT! HAL Si [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



305 



This insect agrees with A. pidicaria in many respects, but is a 

 smaller, more delicate species. A distinctive color pattern is 

 developed which, wheD present, readily distinguishes the species. 177 

 Tliis is strongly marked in the specimens from Atlantic Beach 

 (figured) and Pnnta Gorda, bu1 very weakly indicated and only by 

 the marking of the occiput and dorsum * »i" the pronotum in the 

 other two specimens. 



The specimens here recorded are wingless, numerous long-winged 

 examples are present, however, in the exotic series before us. All 

 of the winged individuals have open auditory foramina on both 

 faces of the cephalic tibiae; in the wingless examples this organ is 

 missing on the inner face of these members. 



This tiny species was not previously known to exisl within the 

 United States, a large -eric- now before us -how- it to be probably 

 the most abundant and widely distributed species of the genus in 

 Cuba and on the Gulf coast of Mexico. 



Falcicula hebardi Etehn. 



\ . ./■ South ( 'arolina. 



Reega, Atlantic County, VII, 31 and Florence, IX. 6, L911, R I 



\ III. in. 191 t. II .1?. 

 1/ • {land. 

 Plummer's Island, VI, 17. 1913, 

 \\ . I.. McAtee . I I 8 V M.|. 



i ■■n,u. 



Near Washington. D C, V, 30, 1883, 



1 . . Hebard Clr. . 

 Petersburg, \ II. 22 1913, R & II 



t 



II. ,1 \ ll. 2, 1903, \. P. 



\l i ■ ■■ 19. 



Vorth Carolina. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, i: All. 



1 '. I 

 Raleigh, VII, 8, L903, \ P. Morse . 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, II . 1 '. 



Yemassee, IX. 1. L911, R. & II . 



1 d"- 



(it on/in. 



[sle of Hope, IX, 3, 191 1. R & II . 



1 9. 

 Bebardville, V, 15, 1915, II . I 



•J ju\ 

 Suwannee Creek, \ III. 28, 1911, II 



I •■ 

 Cumberland Island, VIII. 31, 1911, 

 I ; a 1 1 i .19. 



/. 

 Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, II . 2 . 



2 

 Beaumont, \ II. 23, 1912, II . 2 

 Dickinson, \ II. 20, 1912, II . 22 



-•I 



Individuals of this minute species are distinguishable from any 

 others of the < Iroup Anaxiphites, do1 only by the absence of auditor} 

 foramina on the cephalic tibiae, bul also the remarkable reduction 



l . .... thai the species develops an unusual 



complexity "t markings. Certain examples, in the Mexican »a iccep- 



tional in having the caudal femora suffused dorsad and narrovlj banded n 

 mi the outer face with very dark brown, while rare individu I the dorsal 



field nf the tegmina fuscous < >ther specimens have no dark markings whal 

 and can only with difficulty !>'• separated from small individuals ol 1 puli I 

 which Bpeciea is, however, appreciably more robust. 




PROI BBDINQS OF THE LC \m;\n 01 [April, 



of the tegminal stridulating apparatus in the male sex. The general 

 coloration is immaculate pale yellowish brown, with no trace of 

 cephalic markings. The species does ao1 appear ever to develop 

 wings and the tegmina have a more regularly convex contour than 

 in the species of the allied genera. 



The species is usually found in greatest numbers in the dry wire- 

 grass and dead needle- of the pine woods, it has twice been found 

 in considerable numbers in such situations (Thomasville, Georgia; 

 Dickinson. Texas). The above series was found very rare in heavy 

 grasses of pine forest, Pinus rigida (Reega), occasional in grasses in 

 boggy opening in woods (Petersburg), few in number in dry grasses 

 under short-leaf pine-. Pinus echinata (Goldsboro), in short grass on- 

 edg ■ of foresl (Greensboro), undergrowth of pine woods (Yemassee), 

 undergrowth of gray-bark pine forest, Pinus sp. (Isle of Hope), in dry 

 wire-grass and dead pine needles of long-leaf pine woods. Pinus 

 palustris (Cumberland Island) and in heavy undergrowth of same 

 (Hebardville, Suwannee Creek). 



The present species has been previously correctly recorded only 

 from the type locality. Thomasville, Georgia, and from Gainesville, 

 Florida. 178 



Cyrtoxipha gundlachi Saussure. 



Silver Springs, Florida, XI, 25, 1911, (G. P. Englehardt), 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



This species is only known in the United States from peninsular 

 Florida and has not been previously correctly recorded north of 

 Punta Gorda; 178 it is widely distributed in the West Indies and is 

 known from Central and northern South America. 



The present specimen is no larger than the average individuals 

 from Key West, Florida. 



Cyrtoxipha Columbiana CaudelL 



North Carolina. s """> Carolina. 



I of X, 1908, 19, [N. C. Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. A H.), 1 cf. 



Dept. Agr.]. (iiorgia. 



Raleigh, VIII, 24, 1905, X, 3, 1908, Hoschton, VII, 26, 1909, HI. A. 



C. S. Brimley), 1 cr, 19, rBrimley Allard), 3 o", [I'. S. X. M. and 



Cln.]. Hebard Cln.]. 



:: " Aa 'lie distribution of the speciee has been found to be bo much more exten- 

 sive than Was previously known, we have here recorded all oi" the material before 



n- in order to define as fully as possible its range. The records of this species 



.iii'l Anaxi /ihti exigtta \ ?), from Cabanas, Cuba, are incorrect, the material 



being properly referable to Anaxipha vtttata. Rehn, 2d R pt. Cent. Exp. Sta. 



b Cuba, pp. 223. 224, 1909). 



Lshmeads record from [Jtica, Mississippi, apphes properly to C. Columbiana, 

 h Life, VI, p 25, L894 , 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, 11.19. M 



De Witt. VII. 24, 1912, J. C. Brad- Battiesburg, VII, 17. 1905, A. P. 



ley • Morse .19. 



SpringCreek, VII. l6toVni,28, L912 

 and (913, J. C. Bradl y), 2 2 9. 



_ , Dallas, (J. Boll ,2 9, M C Z. and 



Florida. \ ,g \ m 



Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, II . . 



11.49. 29. 



This species is very closely related to C. gundlachi. It may be 

 distinguished by it- greater size, mor< specialized and elongate 

 titillatores of the male, which normally extend well beyond the 

 <li-tal margin of the subgenital plate, heavier and longer ovipositor 

 with heavier serrulationa (in this character, however, only showing 

 a proportionate size increase in the larger species I and tegmina which 

 usually -how a few weak and irregularly placed transverse veinlets. 

 The beautiful and brilliant, though pale, green coloration of both 

 these species in life, almost entirely disappears in dried material. 



In the series before us the following extreme- in length are found: 

 tegmen, -/" 5.6 to 6.8,9 6.3 to 7: wing, c 7.3 to 9.2,9 8.8 to 9.4; 

 caudal lemur. 7 1 5 to 5.7, . 5.3 to 5.8; ovipositor •'!.'_' to ; !-'i mm. 



The species is thamnophilous and dendrophilous and has uever 

 been found in the leasl abundant. I'- small size and retiring habits 

 make it a very difficult inseci to collect. The presenl material was 

 taken in a deep foresl of gum, sweel gum, etc. Florence), beaten 

 from bayberry bushes, Myrica cerifera, Dear stream in foresl (Bruns- 

 wick) and from the same on edge of pine woods Atlantic Beach), 

 and was found scarce in low bushes, particularly in -hoot- of - 

 num. along stream in foresl (Doucetto 



The inseci was described from Washington, Districl of Columl ia, 

 and Falls < Ihurch, Virginia, the aorthernmosl localities from which it 

 i- known, and ha- been previously recorded from Raleigh, North 

 < larojina, and Bainbridge, < leorgia. The pre» q1 records considerably 

 extend the known range of the species westward. 180 



Phylloscyrtui pulchellus (1 



1/ i /land. A orth < 'aroh 



Chestertown, VIII, 17 to 26 1899, Alamance County, VII, 1905 I 



I I . '. I I . \ V Sherman, Jr . I m\ \ . < '. 



3 P.j. 



, Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, R a II 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, II Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913 I: a II 



1 juv 15 jir. 



I \ II jj. 1913, i: a II I lyetteville, IX, 9 1911, I: A ll . 



2 juv. '. 1 ju ll 



\\ > have thoughl best to record here :ill of 'li«- material of this little-known 

 before us See additional record for ; tnotc 17'' 






PRCM I EDINGS I »] I III \< \I>K\1 Y OF 



[April. 



^ <th Carolina. 

 Florence, IV 6, 1911, R, & II . 



Ill -. 10 



Columbia, \ II. 28, 1913, Hi 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, R 



1 . . 



( ii (Hi/ill . 



Clayton, VL 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



l juv. 9, [Davis Cln.]. 

 Lavender, VIII, 23, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



I juv. ', 1 juv. 9 . 



Macon, \ II. 30 and 31, 1913, (R. & 



II . l '. 



Columbus, VIII, 9, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 2 ".2 9. 



Savannah, VII, 31, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 19; VIII, it, L903, \ P 

 Moi -• ), 8 .ii 



Sandfly. IX. 3, 191 I, Ml .19. 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 191 1 I: & 11 

 I ,19. 



Billy's Island, \ I, 12, 1912, (J. C. 

 Bradley), I juv. '; IX, I to 5, 

 1913, (.1. C. Bradley). 1 <?. 



Albany, VIII, I, 1913, I: & H.), 

 19 '. 26 . . 3 juv. 9. 



Thoinasville, VI, 29, 1903. (for 

 Hebard), 1 juv. ", [Hebard < In 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddej I, 1 \ 

 1 9. [Hebard Cln.]. 



ford, (( !. 15. Frazer), 1 

 IM.C.Z.]. 



The large series before us shows little size variation. The majority 



specimens from the more southern points average darker in 



coloration, with color- more intense and brilliant. In this species 



the wings are always presenl and nearly as long as, but wholly 



concealed by, the tegmina. 



The materia] here studied was taken: in weeds near Rappahannock 

 River (Fredericksburg), in green undergrowth of heavy foresl near 

 stream (Weldon), common in low green undergrowth of "branch" 

 and beaten from heavy green undergrowth in short-leaf pine foresl 

 '< !olumbia >. beaten from undergrowth of long-leaf pine woods (Ashley 

 Junction), scarce in tall weed- near stream in oak and short-leaf 

 pine wood- (Buckhead), in small clump of sweet gum shoots in gray- 

 bark pine forest (Sandfly), in heavy undergrowth of gray-bark pine 

 foresl (Isle of Hope) and common in tangles of small bushes and 

 vines along Flint River (Albany). The species has been recorded 

 as far north on the Atlantic coasi as Staten Island. New York; west- 

 ward its distribution extends far beyond the regions here under 

 consideration. 



Hapithus agitator agitator Uhler. 



District of < 'olumbia. 

 Washington. X, L883, 1 d\ 2 9, 

 Bebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 

 11.: common in undergrowth of 

 deciduous foresl I, 2 juv. 9 . 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & II.: very 



scarce in undergrowth of deciduous 



forest ). 1 juv. <f. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, 'II : in 



vegetation of boggy spot aear 



woods), 1 juv, 9 . 

 Norfolk, IX. 3, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 o", 3 9. 



We have a large series of adults before us from more northern 

 points on the Atlantic coast, where the species has been recorded 

 as far north as Tottenville, Staten Island, New York. 




1916.1 



NATUBAX S< IENI ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



This geographic race is found to merge with the more southern 

 race, agitator quadratus, along the fall line in North Carolina, this 

 being shown by intermediate material before us from Raleigh. These 

 race- Bhow little definite differentiation, bul typical agitator may be 

 >ai<l tn differ from agitator quadratus in the average -mailer siae; 

 tegmina which aormally do qoI quite reach the distal extremity of 

 the abdomen, in the male with Bpeculum normally lacking a trans- 

 verse vein and with length of same mure nearly approximating its 

 width, in the f< male with veins aormally more irregular and nol 

 affording a pattern as generally Longitudinal; the caudal femora in 

 length also average proportionately slightly less. 



A Large series before us from other points in the southeastern 

 United States, particularly those on the Piedmonl plateau, are 

 immature, and we are consequently unable to assign the individuals 

 properly. We believe, however, that agitator agitator oecurs on the 

 Piedmont plateau at least as far south as Atlanta. Georgia. This 

 race is known to occur as far westward as the timbered portions of 

 eastern Nebraska. 



Hapithus agitator quadratus Seudder. 



North Cnn>li mi. Florida. 



Wrightsville, IV ~- 1911, R. & II Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddej , I \ 



10 '. 15 . 1 juv. 1 9, [Hi bard Cln.]. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, II . l ". Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24 and 25, 1911, 



I I ; a 1 1 5 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, R & Grant, VII, 1808, 1 '. I D 



11 ill, Cln 



. ., . , , Miami. \I: - \ T Slos on), I 



South i iiriiliim. , \I < ' / I 



Plorence, IX, 6, 1911, R & H.), 1 d\ ' ' 



Ashley Junction, VIII. 15, 1913 I: . Doucette. VII. 24, L912, II ,19. 



.1 Boll), 1 •. I . \I >'. Z.J. 

 Kerrville, \ III. 17, 1912, II ,19. 

 " '''"'• Flatonia, MM. 20, 1912, II 2 



nnah, Mil. 1 ». 1903, \ P. s.-.n Antonio, MM. 16, 1912. I: & 

 Mo II 



Hope, l\ 3, 1911, I: d II Victoria, \ II, 27, 1912, H.), 8 . 



109, 1 juv. ". 2 it i i 



-•■■■• l ! >" I, ^ ML 30, 1911, Brownsville. \ II. 31, 1912, III \ 

 I : a 1 1 2 . 

 Albany, VIII, l. 1913, R & II . p,,,, , Plantation, near Brownsville, 

 I jin \ hi R a II i 



We have recorded above all of the previously unrecorded material 

 of this geographic race from within the United States before us, in 

 order to define more fullj it- known distribution. 



There is considerable variation in the coloratioD of the forarf. 

 -ional specimens bave the caudal femora strongly infuscated 




310 PEO( EEDINGS OF I BE ii \i>i Ml OF [April, 



medio-longitudinally, the exposed portioD of the limb below this 

 being very pair, often cream color; a similar condition is often 

 weakly indicated, while In many series the caudal femora arc con- 

 colorous with the general coloration. The intermediate channel in 

 the tegmina is also occasionally strongly defined in yellowish white, 

 often this is weakly indicated, while ninny individuals have this 

 portion concolorous with the resl of the tegmen. 



The presenl material was found common in low vegetation under 

 live oaks on barrier beach (Wrightsville), on low wet ground in 

 undergrowth of pine woods (Wilmington, Yemassee), in green under- 

 growth of deep foresi (Florence), young aumerous, but few adults in 

 undergrowth of dry woods (Ashley Junction), common in heavy 

 undergrowth of gray-bark pine forest (Isle of Hope), Bcarce in tangle 

 of vines and bushes along Flint River (Albany), in heavy under- 

 growth of jungle "hammock" and in bayberry bushes (Atlantic 

 Beach), in stream bottom choked with deciduous trees (Kerrville, 

 Flatonia), young common, few adults, in scant undergrowth of mixed 

 pine and deciduous forest (Doucette), in rank, high green grasses 

 and nettle- along wooded stream (San Antonio), in stream bottom 

 in tangles of vines growing in high weeds (Victoria), by beating tall 

 green weeds in river bottom tangles (Brownsville) and in low heavy 

 jungle tangle- (Piper Plantation). 



We have found this race abundant in extreme southern Florida 

 and on the Florida Keys. 



Hapithus brevipennis Sausaure. 



Georgia. Billy's Island, IX, 1 to 15 and XII, 



Savannah. VII. 31, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 23, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 d\ 2 9, 



ley), 1 juv.9. ] J uv -?- _, ., 



[ale of Hope, IX. 3, 1911, (R. & 11 Florida. 



2 d\ 19. Jacksonville, VIII, lss.1, (\V. II. Ash- 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, BUI, (R. .V II.-. 2 d 1 , mead), 1 cr, 19; (T. J. Priddey), 



3 9. 1 cf, [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (H.), 19. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, BUI, (R. & 



St. Simon's Bland. VIII, 30, 1911, H.), 1 d\ 1 9 . 



l; & II I Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (IB), 1 cf. 



Some size variation, irrespective of geographic distribution, is 

 shown by the material before us. 



The material taken by us was beaten from luxuriant undergrowth 

 of gray-bark pine foresi (Isle of Hope, Sandfly), found scarce under 

 live oaks in area of II< [ianthemum coralinianum (St. Simon's Island), 

 beaten from tannic- of grape, raspberry and other vines in jungle 

 '•hammock"' (Atlantic Beach) and one found on sandy soil among 

 wire-grass (Live Oakj. 




1911). 1 NATURAL BCIENCBfi OF PHILADELPHIA. .'Ml 



The type localities, Georgia and Louisiana, our previous records 

 from Thomasville, ( Seorgia, and Pablo Beach, San Pablo and < laines- 

 ville, Florida, with those given above, define the known distribution 

 of this beautiful and interesting species. 



Orocharis saltator Ohler. 



Orocharis gryllodes Saussure (not Gryllus gryUodes Pallas, 177_' . (In part.) 



Ua /land. Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, L913, K. . 



Point of Elocks, VIII, L9, 1883, I ', 3 Juv. ?, 3juv.9. 



[Hebard Cln.J. Georaia 



Washington, D. C, X, 1883, 2 ',29. „ , ,. ,,,',,, „• ... 



[Hebard CIn.]. K ' I"" ( ""'.">■ V ". . 191 °> W\ T. 



... Davis), I |uv. . \ juv. 9. 



[sle of Bope, IX, 3, 1911, I: & II . 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, M. & 1 ju\ 



II . I pi-. Macon, \ II. 31, L913, (R. & II 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, R. & II . 1 juv. :-\ 1 juv. 9. 



i ju\ St. Simon's [sland, \ III, 30, 1911, 



North Carolina. (R), 19. 



Weldon, VII, 24, I'M:;, I;. & II . BiUy's Island VI and VII, 1912, J. C. 



•_, JI1V ; Bradley), A juv. c> . 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, II & II . Florida. 



* J) IV - '• _ , , ,, ,, Jacksonville. (Priddey; Ashmead), 2 



( harlotte, \ II. 27, 1913, I. & II Hebard Cln |; XI, 3, 191 I \\ T 



1 J"' Davis), 1 juv. 9. 



South Carolina. Pablo Beach, XI, I. 1911, (W. T. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, R .19. C .. D , ,.,-,, ,, , ,, 



,. , i \.i ... ,,,,.. ,. , |, Suvei Springs, XI. 25, I'.'ll. (.. '. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, K & II . E lehal J ,,,•,, ,, j ,,„, 



We of Pahns, VIII. L5, 1913, R . Bebard Cln.]. 



1 jir. 



Wesl [ndian material before us and studj of the literature has 

 Bhown thai Orocharis saulcyi (Gu6rin) is a synonym of Orocharis 

 gryllodes (Pallas); 181 thai Wesl [ndian form is known in the United 

 States only from extreme southern Florida. 



The presenl species was in pari correctly recorded by Saussure, 

 Imt material from the soul hern States was referred by him to gryllodt s. 

 We have now sufficienl material before n- to determine thai saltator 

 and, in part, gryUodes of Saussure 183 (bul not of Pallas) are conspecific. 



It, i- true thai material of the presenl species from the southern 

 United States often shows :i somewhal heavier developmenl with 

 pronotum proportionately more ample, and in such specimens the 

 mediastine vein of the tegmina frequently bears a greater number 

 of branches. These features are, however, by no means constant; 



- '■' XXVI, p. 168, i ■ 



1 1 i' ... I B78 Thai author has i \ idently 

 also placed Wesl Indian specimens of the group to which vhirn 



nn)M|i probably merits generic distinction under fir ■ 

 oever develops a green pi I by thai author, 




312 PRO< i i DINGS OF l Ml \.( \]>i mi or [April, 



iii specimens from the same locality a remarkable difference in 

 pronotal amplitude in the same Bex is often present, 1 " while the 

 branching of the mediastine vein is extremely irregular and cannot 



be relied upon as in any way diagnostic. 184 



The normal coloration of this insect is pale and immaculate reddish 

 brown. Some specimens have the occiput, post-ocular portions of 

 the genaa an<l dorsal portions of the lateral Lobes of the pronotum 

 infuscated; in others these markings are very dark and the dorsum 

 of the pronotum and the tegmina and limbs are mottled and Bpeckled 

 with the same shade. Frequently in such maculate individuals the 

 genera] coloration is grayish. 



The species is known on the Atlantic coast as far north as Matawan, 

 New Jersey; it is found far westward of the regions here considered. 



Of the present series we found the young common in undergrowth 

 of deciduous forest i Fredericksburg), young in undergrowth of pine 

 woods (Petersburg), few immature examples in green undergrowth 

 of heavy foresl near stream (YYcldon), few young in green gra 

 and weed- in -hortdeaf pine woods (Goldsboro), on green sprout- in 

 "branch" filled chiefly with gums (Florence), young beaten from 

 bayberry I [sle of Palms), young numerous in undergrowth of dry 

 pine woods (Ashley Junction), young in luxuriant undergrowth of 

 grayd>ark pine woods (Isle of Hope) and in hushes apparently killed 

 by a remarkable hymenopterous parasite, Rhopalosoma poeyi Cresson 

 (St. Simon's Island). 



1,3 In material before us we find the following contrasts in these dimensions: 

 Silver Spin,--, <?, 2.3 by 3.4 and 2.7 by 3.9; Thomasville, Georgia, 9 , 2.4 by 3.6 



ami 2. 9 by 3.8 nun. 



'•'■All or pari of the free vein- of the lateral field of (lie tegmina sometimes 

 merge with tin' mediastine vein at it.- base, and can then scarcely be dial inguished 



from the normal branches of that vein. The branches of the mediastine vein 

 al-o bifurcate, though rarely, while distad the vein itself frequently assumes 

 abnormal positions which, in themselves, bring about further differences in the 



number of branches. The branches of this vein SaUSBUre gives: for Sdttator, 



(?7to8, 9 4 to 6; for gryUodes, ' in toil, 9 7 to 10. [n our series are males 

 Bhowing 8 9, !t-'.i and 8-10 and females Bhowing 5-7 and 6-7 of. these branches, 



such material not being from areas where intertrradat ion would be likely to 



occur, were geographic race, present. 




1916.] NATURAL B( [EN< Eg OF PHILADELPHIA. 31.3 



Explanation of Plates XII. XIII. XIV. 



Plate XII. Fig. 1. — Neotetlix proamuT new sped irgia Female 



i teral outline. I 

 Fig. 2. Same. Female type). Cephalic outline of head. I ■ 5 

 Fig. 3. -Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Male. out- 

 line of cephalic margin of dorsum of pronotum (no cusp . Greatly 



• ■Ilia: . 



Fit:. 4. — Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Mali-. 

 < hitline of cephalic margii] of dorsum of pronotum I moderately cuspid 

 itly enlarged. 

 Fig. 5. Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Male Out- 

 line of cephalic margin of dorsum of pronotum (strongly cuspid 

 itly enlarg 

 Fie • //" halopkila oew species. Key West, Florida. Female 



b< ral figure. • _' 

 7 Same. Femali type . Dorsal outline of head and pronotum 



Fig. 8. Same. Male (allotype). Dorsal outline of head ami pronotum. 



(> 

 I _ I Spharagemo - 31 Simon's Island, Georgia. 



Dorsal figure, I X 2) 

 10. — Same. St. Simon's Island, Male Lateral figure. 



- 



ibilus ik'w species. Fayetteville, North Carolina. 

 Male net. . Lateral outline 



ew species. Cannoche River at Grove- 

 land, Georgia. Male type . Lateral outlini ■ _' 

 I _ ! '•/ Weldon, Nortja Carolina. Male 



ral outlini 

 I 1. MeUmophi* scapularis new species. Jesup, Georgia. Male (typi 



I ■■ ral online • _' 



Plate XIII. The enlargement of tie- supra-anal plates is about lo times, of 

 the cerci aboul 25 times and of the subgenital plates about in times. 



Scudder. Winter Park, North Carolina. Male. 

 Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 2. Sane-. Winter Park, North ('an>l:na. Male Lateral outline 

 of cercus. 



australit Morse. Isle of Hope, Georgia. Male 

 ! figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 



Same. Isle of Hope. Georgia. Male I itline of cercus. 



Scudder. Magnolia, South Carolina. Male 

 ! figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 



3ame. Magnolia, South Carolina- Male. Lateral outline ol 

 us. 



Plan tat ion, Thomas < 'mint v, 

 irgia Malt nrpi Dorsal figure ol supra-anal plate and furcu 

 VI Lateral outline of cen 



9 \felanoplu i ih new Pttoville, North Carolina. 



M Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 



nrpi Lateral outline o 



1 iimoilie River at < ■ 

 land, l M ale i J pi Do 



1 I outline i 



: Lateral outline of subgcnital pi 



\\ . Idon, North ' 'arolina. Male 

 in Dorsal figure of Bupra-anal pi 



nrpi 1 teral outline . 

 16 Same. Mali nrpi I • ral outline of Bubgcnit , 



Male 

 ; i il figure of Bupra-anal pi 




314 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Fig. lv Same Male nrp] Lateral outline of cercus 



Fie 19 Welanoplw sir mm is us Morse. Currahee Mountain, Georgia. 



Male. Dor.-al figure <>t' Bupra-anal plate and furcula. 



20 Same. Currahee Mountain, Georgia Male. Lateral outline 



of cercus. 

 Fig. 21. Same. Currahee Mountain, Georgia. Male Lateral outline 



of subgenital plate. 



l'i \n \l\. Fig. 1. M elanoplus guerneus new species. Thomasville, Georgia 



Male rYPi . Lateral outline of cercus i X 5) 

 Fig. 2. Same Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus and Bubgenital 



plate, I ■ 

 Fig. 3. Same. Male (typi i. Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate. (X 5) 

 Fig. 1. Scapteriscm vicinus Scudder. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. 



Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia, tx 1') 

 Fig. 5. Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. Dorsal figure of 



pronotum. (X 2) 



Fig. 6. Same. St. Simon'- Island. Georgia. Female. Lateral outline 



external i of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. 1X4) 

 Fig. 7. Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. Lateral outline 



(internal) of spatula. (> I ' 

 Fig. 8. Scapteriscus aclelus new species. Hebardville, Georgia. Male 



(TYPE). Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X 4£) 



Fig. 9. Same. Male (type). Dorsal figure. (X 2) 



L0. Same. Male (type). Lateral outline (external) of distal joint 



Of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 

 Fig 11. Same. Male (TYPE). Lateral outline (internal) of spatula. 



(XL 

 Fig 12. Scapteriscus mexicanus (Burmeister). Durango, Mexico. Female. 



L.ieral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X III 



Fi>j. 13. Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Dorsal figure of pronotum. 



( X 2 

 Fig. 14. Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Lateral outline (external) 



of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 



Fig. 15. Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Lateral outline (internal) 



Of spatula. 1X4 



Fijr. Li. Scapteriscus abbreviatus Scudder. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. 

 Female. Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. ( X 4§) 



Fig. 17. -Same. Musa [sle near Miami, Florida. Female. Dorsal figure 

 of pronotum. (X 2) 



Fig. 18. Same. Musa Lie near Miami. Florida. Female. Lateral out- 

 line 'external I of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. ( X 4) 



Fig. 19. Same. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. Female. Lateral out- 

 line 'internal I of spatula. (X 1$) 



Fig. 20. -Anaxipha pvlicaria (Burmeister). Beaumont, Texas. Male. 

 Cephalic figure of head. (Nearly X 5) 



Fig. 21. -Anaxipha vitttUa (Bolivar). Atlantic Beach, Florida. Male. 

 Cephalic figure of lead. Nearly X 5) 




1916.1 NATURAL S< [ENCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



HUNTING MOLLUSCA IN UTAH AND IDAHO. 

 BY JUNIUS HENDERSON AND L. E. DANIELS 



The investigations of Hemphill prior to 1890 in Idaho and north- 

 eastern Utah, made thai region classic ground in western American 

 conchology. < 'wing to the existence of many small mountain ranges, 

 in most instances conchologicalry unexplored, isolated by threat 

 expanses of arid territory wholly unfavorable to the larger land 

 snail-, in western Utah, Idaho, and Nevada, thai area is an attractive 

 field, and some of as have viewed it with longing. It is likely thai 

 every range qo1 yet explored will yield one form or more of Oreohelix 

 new t<> science. Indeed, we found a very interesting new form very 

 close to one of Hemphill's localities, and in the same range. Probably 

 Utah is approximately the center of distribution of the genus 

 Orrofn li.r, and a thorough understanding of its forms and their 

 distribution and habits may throw considerable lighl upon general 

 problems of distribution of plants and animals in the Rocky Moun- 

 tain- and Greal Basin, a thing devoutly to be wished. Before 

 beginning serious work upon the unexplored ranges, it seemed to us 

 important to clear up some of the many difficulties arising from a 

 critical study of Hemphill's records and collections, in order to reach 

 a better understanding of hi- species and varieties. He explored 

 particularly the western edge of the Wasatch mountain- and their 

 -pur- bordering the Greal Sail hake Basin on the east, thence north- 

 ward into Idaho and southwestward to the Oquirrh Mountain-, 

 which extend southward from the southern end of Salt Lake. Hi- 

 published localities are exceedingly indefinite, a- applied to snails 

 of a genua who-.- colonic- are usually of very limited extent and 

 whose varieties are in many instances limited in their known range 

 to the type locality. They were found to lie even more indefinite 

 in the field than they looked on paper. In the collections he dis- 

 tributed the labels are -till more vague .ind sometimes misleading. 

 However, we obtained material from somewhere near some oi his 

 stations, a1 leasl , 



Inconsistencies in the descriptions and figures of material collected 

 by Hemphill render the determination of some of the -nail- of the 

 region difficult. We have been greatly assisted in this work by the 

 loan to the University of Colorado, bj Dr. Geo. H. Clapp, of his ) w<> 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



fine Beriea of Hemphill's varieties, which have beeD critically examined 



by one ni the authors. The other author has some of Hemphill's 

 material in lus own collection. 



One of Mr. Clapp's collect inns was formerly owned by Mrs. Geo. 

 Andrews. The shells in this series are mounted on 57 blue cards 

 blearing the printed legend "Genus Pyramidida. Group of Pyra? 

 midvla aUemata." White printed slips pasted below the specimens 

 use the generic name Helix instead of Pyramidula, and all of the 

 Oreohelices are labelled as varieties of P. aUemata. All of the printed 

 labels for the Utah material give the localities merely as "near Salt 

 Lake," evidently meaning the lake itself, not the city of that name. 

 Included in that vague locality are shells that undoubtedly came 

 from as widely separated areas as the Oquirrh mountains on the 

 south and Franklin, Idaho, on the north. This collection seems to 

 have been made up during or after 1890, as it includes forms described 

 that year. The other series was purchased by Dr. Clapp directly 

 from Hemphill in 1890, at 25c per lot, 153 trays of two specimens 

 each. The printed labels in this series designate all the Oreohelices 

 as varieties of Helix strigosa, and the locality stated for all the Utah 

 material is simply "Utah," but in most instances more definite 

 localities, such as "Box Elder Co.," "near Ogden" and "near Salt 

 Lake," have been added with pen and ink. 1 



The soft anatomy of each lot of Oreohelix collected alive, with a 

 few exceptions, has been studied by Dr. Pilsbry, whose comments 

 may be found in a separate paper prepared by him. We are also 

 greatly indebted to him for aid in identification of some of our 

 material, and for advice in clearing up difficulties in nomenclature 

 and the literature of the subject. 



The authors met, by appointment, at Eureka, Utah, on August 

 26, 1915, and worked northward into the edge of Idaho, finishing the 

 field work on September 17. Mr. Daniels had visited Stations 

 1, \\, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on his way down from Montana to the rendezvous, 

 but we both afterwards visited No. 5, dividing it into three stations, 

 namely 30, 31 and 32, besides visiting others in the same vicinity. 

 The main object of the expedition was to study the Oreohelices, and 

 as our time was limited, but little of it was spent in the search for 

 other genera. 



-Mine of the earlier seta Bent out by Hemphill, such us thai in the museum 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, have practically the same 



.lata on the labels that were given by him in Bunny- Supplement and The 



Nautilus; mosl <>f the labels being printed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Limestone is common at almost every locality visited, this being 

 a favorable condition for Oreohelix. The edges of coarse, angular 

 limestone talus protected from rapid evaporation by overhanging 

 bushes, formed the cover for some of the finest colonies we have seen, 

 the snails occupying crevice- among the rocks. At other Localities 

 they were abundant under vegetation on limestone slopes totally 

 devoid of talus, and in a few instances they were found in talus where 

 no limestone was observed, though it is almost certain that the soil 

 or rock must have contained a fair percentage of lime in such cases. 

 A- some forms were discovered at but one or two stations, we could 

 not determine whether each form chooses definitely a particular 

 kind of cover, but the widely-distributed '/< pri ssa i- found 

 indifferently under either rock or vegetative cover. The kind of 



. tation did not seem to be important excepl a- affecting it- value 



a- a cover to protect the -nail- from the sun's ray-. 



In the lots obtained after the first few days of September very 

 few embryos were found. This is unfortunate, as the sculpture 

 and shape of the embryonic whorls are important in classification 

 and they are often much worn in adult-. The summer was hot ami 

 extremely dry and -nail- of course were dormant -over ninety days 

 without measurable rain. After the rain- commi nerd on September 

 J they became active and tilled with water, and Large numbers were 



,d in copulation. 



A very noticeable feature of the season's catch is the L r re ;i t difference 

 in the color banding of various colonies of what would otherwis 

 considered the same form. The protean 0. p< ri/>h< rim (Ancej is a 

 remarkable example, but scarcely less noteworthy than 0. 8. dep 

 11.) and some other-. The important fact is that where the 

 ding i- weak or wanting on some -penmen- and strong on others 

 from the same colony, the faintness or absence of bands i- mosl pro- 

 nounced on the last whorl. This would be interpreted, under the 

 ipitulation theory, tn indicate that the color banding i- an ancient 

 character of this genus and is in process of disappearing. 

 The question of recognizing subspecies, varieties and color forms 

 er-recurring one in 'In- genus, many of whose species vary 



*i\ m color, form and sculpture. The practice in Amen, -.Hi 



ornithology ami mammalogy is to give subspecific rank to geographic 

 •In- great majority of examples in one area differ in the 

 -.tine direction and degree from those of .'mother area. Th> | 

 of a -mailer oumber of intergrading forms within the range of eithef 

 and especially along the common border prohibit- specific rank. 




$18 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: \< adkmv OF [May, 



the constancy or lack of constancy of characters determining the 

 rank. This method, though requiring a zoological map for the 

 identification of some individuals, seems the mosl satisfactory way 



t»t deal with such cases, where mosl <>t' the examples from a given 

 area clearly fall into a given subspecies, comparatively few failing 

 to conform; bill where mere average characters are used tor the 

 separation <>t' such forms, and especially where abnormal specimens 

 are selected and named, it is surely objectionable mile— some term 

 is used to indicate a rank lower than subspecies. Professor I lockerell 

 some time ago 2 suggested the use of the term "mutation "to designate 

 sporadic variations from modification of the germ-plasm, "form" 

 for variations resulting from the immediate effeel of environmenl 

 upon the individual, and "variety" for all other variations of lower 

 rank than subspecies. Such use of the term- •'mutant " and " form" 

 would imply much greater knowledge of causes of variation than we 

 usually possess. It involves too much guessing as to the cause of a 

 particular variation in a particular case, ami in most case- it is 

 impractical tie to solve the problem by careful experimentation; 

 indeed, sometimes perhaps impossible. On the other hand, the 

 term "variety" is very confusing because it is so variously used. 

 A- i- pointed out in the article just refrered to, well-known naturalists 

 use it as an exact synonym of "subspecies" and also as a synonym 

 of "form" and "mutant." This was true of Hemphill and Binney, 

 but we should have progre--ed since their time. Some forms desig- 

 nated varieties by those gentlemen are so distinct that nowadays no 

 naturalist would hesitate to give them full specific rank. On the 

 other hand, however, Hemphill in several cases selected abnormal 

 specimens from a colony and gave them several varietal names, 

 and was not always even consistent in the use of such name< in 

 sorting his material for distribution. Had he made it clear in just 

 what instances his varieties were so selected, and in what cases they 

 were really from quite distinct colonies and fairly represented the 

 colonic-, it would be easier for us now. if, for example, his oquir- 

 rhensis and <j<il>l>ian<i were from separate colonies as indicated by his 

 notes and partially confirmed by our material, most of the material 

 from one colony conforming to one type and most of it from the 

 other colony conforming to the other type, we should be justified 

 in considering them two subspecies, notwithstanding intergrading 

 examples in either colony. In some cases we can only determine the 



- Nautilus, XX. 58-60. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



question by additional field work, and that is rendered more difficult 

 by the vagueness of his locality data. Sometimes we are aided by a 

 careful reading of all the text of his descriptions. Thus, in reading 

 the descriptions of hi> 0. subcarinata, bicolor and lactea,* one without 

 access to his material might well suppose that he was describing 

 really distinct subspecies from separate colonies in the same region, 

 but to his description of Idctea he added a note to the effect that 

 "the above varieties represent a colony of the largest specimens of 

 the strigosa group," etc. From an examination of some of Hemp- 

 hill's material one of the prama j author- decided that they were not 

 separable before he noticed that not., and Hemphill was certainly 

 not consistent in sorting these "varieties" for distribution. One 

 might be pardoned, then, for suspecting that his jugalis and intert 

 both from the "banks of the Salmon River." represent a similar 

 instance, but an examination of a -mall amount of material under 

 those name- in Clapp's Hemphill collection indicate- thai they may 

 he distinct and from different colonic-. 



In dealing with land snails of the semi-arid region, with their limited 

 locomotive powers and prohibitive environmental harrier- between 



colonic-, a colony may be the equivalent of a geographic race or 



subspecies in other classes of animal-. The fact that we do not 



perceive environmental differences in different colonic- which would 



b 'graphic races, may merely represent our ignorance of 



t in factors or of their importance in -nail life. Some perfectly 



; species and subspecies are known from only one locality. It 

 follow-, then, from the foregoing remark-, that it' nearly all of the 

 members of a colony or group of colonies vary in the same direction 

 and approximately to the -am-- degree from other colonies occupied 

 by the nearest known relatives, hut sporadic individuals of 'he one 



are found with the other, then one may perhaps he justified in 



considering them different subspecies. Winn not fully satisfied 



that the difference i- of a kind or -utficieiit 111 to be entitled 



pecific or Bubspecific rank, the varietal name may he preceded 



by the word "form." to distinguish it from a SUDSpecii - There are 



Certain character- which are of doubtful value at all time- a- -uh- 



ific character-. unl< •-- accompanied hy other differences Mich, 



for example, i- -i/e. which may he greatly influenced in one or more 

 colonic- or portions of colonic- by exceptionally favorable or unfavor- 

 able condition-, a- where example- from the mid-t of a dense thicket 



lu$, III. I.. 




320 PRO< ! i DINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [M:t\ . 



are larger than those from the edge of the thicket where cover is 

 poor and periods of activity and growth fewer or shorter. A great 

 many, it' not all, mere color variations may fall into tin- same class, 

 though sometimes color differences may be correlated with other 

 undiscovered differences. As for selecting abnormal specimens 

 which completely grade into the typical form in the same colony 

 and giving to them varietal names, as was done by Hemphil] and i- 



now being done by various author.-, the value to science of such a 



practice is doubtful. 



Colt on. ■• in discussing the genus Lymncea, protests against its 

 generic subdivision, hut adds: "Species and minor groups on the 

 other hand cannot he too much subdivided. It is an advance to 

 describe every variation that can be distinguished." Probably no 

 one would object to the describing of all distinguishable variation-, 

 but there is room for grave difference of opinion as to the advisability 

 of naming all such variations, which Colton seems to advocate in 

 quoting with apparent approval the following from Bateson: "They 

 will serve science best by giving names freely and by describing 

 everything to which their successors may possibly want to refer and 

 generally by subdividing their material into as many species as they 

 can induce any responsible society or journal to publish." It is 

 quite possible to carry the naming of species and varieties altogether 

 too far, especially in such a genus as Oreohelix. One may easily, 

 by taking averages of color, form and size, make a score of colonies 

 of 0. strigosa depressa into as many distinct varieties, which, when 

 seen in the mass and compared with each other, could be vaguely 

 distinguished, but when compared with all the colonies from which 

 we have collections would be quite indistinguishable, and not at all 

 distinguishable from each other with only a few specimens in hand. 

 Of such is Hemphill's "var. cornea." 



A nearly complete suite of the material upon which this report is 

 based has been placed in the cabinet of The Academy of Natural 

 Science- of Philadelphia. 



The Tintic Mountains. 



This is a range of irregular outlines covering considerable territory 

 just west of central Utah. It was hitherto conchologically unex- 

 plored, and as we -pent but one afternoon collecting here and made 

 but one station, it would doubtless well repay further exploration, 



» Nautilus, XXVIII, 118. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



especially the western spurs, which we <li<l not visit, and which are 

 further from territory thus far explored. Tintic folio, U. S. Geol. 

 Surv., covers the Eureka district. 



Oreohelix cooperi fW. G. B.) 



Sta. 6, on north side of Godiva Mountain, in Eureka, Utah, on a 

 slope of Paleozoic limestone, under shrubs and other vegetation, a 

 ii-\v under angular blocks of limestone, no good rock slides exposed. 

 A small form of this species is abundant here. We al first thought 

 it might prove to be new. but it differs from typical cooperi of other 



localities only in it- size, and, in average examples, a re nearly 



pure white ground color. The latter character, however, is quite 

 variable here, but the size is unusually uniform, averaging about 

 14.5 mm., and varying scarcely a millimeter therefrom, our way or 

 the other. 



Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis new subspecies. PL XV, 6gs. 7. - 



shell small, sublenticular; spire slightly elevated; whorl- l 1 . to 

 If, strongly carinated at the periphery, the carina having a tendency 



to disappear toward the aperture of adult-: whorl- rounded above, 

 sloping roundly in to the suture so as to form an excavated suture, 

 and on the other hand sloping flatly to the periphery; transverse 

 sculpture well marked, irregular; spiral sculpture consists, in the 

 type, of 6 minute. Leaded lines below the periphery, with very indis- 

 tinct lines in the interspaces and in the '-due of the umbilicus; similar 

 sculptun- above, but not so well defined nor so plainly of two grades; 

 on the cotypes the hue- are not -<» well defined and no1 so plainly 

 of two grades below; umbilicus wide, exhibiting all the volutions; 

 apical whorl- brown, very dark brown in the type, changing to dirty 



white OH the l:i>t whorl; two verj obscure dark spiral band-, one 



above, the other barely below the periphery. Type, in Univ. of 

 Colo. Museum, greater diam. 9.7, lesser 8.8, alt. 5.5. Cotype, in 

 Acad. Nat. Bci. l'hila.. greater diam. 9.3, lesser 8.5, ait. 6 



Type locality. Sta. 6, Eureka. Utah, 7 specimens, all <lead -helb, 



late. | with 0. cooperi. The type and cotype are adults, and 

 one specimen in L. E. Daniels' collection probably fully adult but 

 with the peristome partly broken away. The-.' specimens were all 

 submitted to Dr. Pilsbry, who writes as follows: "I at first thought 

 your little species from Eureka was 0. carinift ra, but on further study 

 I am wholly of the opinion that n i- a -mall subspecies of 0. ht mphilli. 

 It differ- chiefly by its -mailer -i/e and fewer whorl-, the sculpture, 

 color and degree of carination being practically identical. 0. hemp- 




322 I'Hockkdixcs ol THE LCADBOT OF [May, 



hilli has the last embryonic whorl a trifle concave Qear the periphery, 

 where yours is only flattened, but the difference is no1 great. 0. 

 carinifera has the embryonic whorls well rounded throughout, above; 

 it is more depressed and the keel is decidedly pinched out on the Last 

 whorl. It may turn out to be another subspecies of hemphilli, 

 but with present collections 1 hardly think so. I do not know what 

 form Binney identified a- h mphilli from ( lolorado. My comparisons 

 were with the figured type and a young one of the original lot." 



Tin: I Iqttirrh Mountains. 



This range extend- southward from the -out hern end of Greal 

 Salt Lake. Bemphill visited the wesl side of the range, 8 and reported 

 a very interesting series of finds, with 0. utahensis at the foot of the 

 mountains, 0. oguirrhensis a short distance up the mountain side. 

 then along the mountain side across a ravine the typical haydem and 

 gabbiaiin, and near the summit a few haydeni and two cooperi. We 

 searched the canyons around Tooele without finding any of these 

 forms. Then we proci cdvd to Garfield and worked southward along 

 the we>t side of the range for many miles and only found one specie-, 

 at stations 11 and 15. Material labelled haydi ni in Clapp's Hemphill 

 collection does not appear to belong to that species. 



Station 11, eottonwood grove at picnic grounds just within mouth 

 of gulch southeast of Tooele from which gulch the town obtains its 

 water supply. 



Palndestrina longinqua (Gould), abundant in water-cress. 



Pyramidvla cronkhitei anthonyi Pils., L4 specimens. 



Euconulus sp., 1 juvenile. 



Vitrina <d<i-<k<nin Dall, 2 dead shells. 



Zonitoidcs arborea Say, '.1 specimens. 



PupiUa blandi Morse. 1 specimen. 



Station 12, up the canyon a short distance above Station 11, in 

 rock slide, mostly quartzitic sandstone. 



Yitrinti ala&kana Dall, 3 specimens. 



Pyramidvla cronkhitei anthonyi Pils., 3 specimens. 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata (Ckll.), 12 specimen-. 



Oreohehx striyosa depressa (Ckll.) common. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 12 -<•(• abovei; Sta. 13, about a mile above Sta. 12, on south 

 side, under mountain maple leaves. These two lots are typical in 



5 Binney'a 2nd Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., pp. 29-34. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



form, sculpture, color and size, as compared with average examples 

 from Colorado, with two strong color bands, one barely below the 

 periphery, the other well above. Probably all or nearly all of 

 Hemphill's Utah records of 0. strigosa (Gould) should be referred to 

 this subspecies. This is true of the material labelled strigosa in 

 Clap]>- Hemphill collection. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa, t <rm tooelensis new form 



This form differs from depressa chiefly in the color, which i- almost 

 invariably a dead, chalky white, in ah 1 the material from three 

 colonic- northeast of Tooele Utah, giving the specimens the appear- 

 ance of dead, weathered -hells, in this re-pert quite unlike the colonies 

 of depressa from southeast of Tooele and elsewhere. Shell depressed 

 in a few examples quite elevated ; whorls •"> to .V,. convex; suture 

 well impressed; spiral stria? minute: transverse sculpture slightly 

 less pronounced than in typical depressa, especially below; color 

 bands narrow, sometimes strongly marked, but usually rather faint 

 or wanting, one barely below and the other well above the periphery, 

 >trons on immature examples; first embryonic whorl smooth, second 

 and third minutely transversely striate, with numerous spiral striae 

 rippling the transverse sculpture above and below and increasing in 

 rigth with the growth of the whorl-. Type, in the University 

 of Colorado Museum, greater diam. 19 mm., lesser 16.5 mm., alt. 



1 1 .") mm. < o-type. in Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



ter diam. 19.6 mm., lesser 17.2 mm., alt. 11.1mm. Co-type, in 

 I.. E. Daniels' collection, greater diam. 2-', mm., lesser 20 mm., alt. 

 L3.5 mm. This form al-o slightly differ- from typical depressa in 

 anatomy, according to Dr. 1'il-hry. but this is a variable feature. 

 The presence sporadically of white example- in depressa and other 

 colonies of <>r><>h>h.r belonging to the strigosa group, even though 

 not the dead white which characterizes this form, makes it inadvisable 

 to give this subspecific rank, notwithstanding the fact that the 

 color m these colonies i- constant, unless other differences are found 

 which are al-o constant. Al'undant at stations 7. 8, 9 and i<», in 



the -mall gulches aboul six mile- northeast of T sle, north of the 



smelter, under grass and other vegetation about lime-ton.- ledges. 

 Four -im-tral specimens were found. 



Oreohelix haydeni gabbiana Hemphill 1' XVI 



• v.-ir. gabbiana Hemphill, per Binney, 2nd Suppl. '" "''li 

 Vol Terr. Moll I 8 . pp 30 34 PI II, fig I : 



3ta. 14, mountain side southwest of Garfield southeast of Black 

 •. > west side of Oquirrh Mte., under bushes, on limestone. The 




324 PROCEEDINGS 01 nil: \> IDEM1 OF [May, 



locality had been burned over sonu 1 years ago, and though the 

 Bhrubbery had re-established itself, we found no live snails. The 



"bones" had been long dead. A more thorough search would 

 likely disclose live ones in the neighborhood, as fires usually leave 

 "islands" where Buch species may be preserved alive. Dead Bhells 

 were fairly plentiful. A careful conchologica] survey of this whole 

 range would probably prove profitable. Especially should Hemp- 

 hill's "haydeni," oquirrhensU and utahensis from this vicinity be 

 investigated. 



Sta. 1"). south side of a gulch south of Sta. 14, nearly east of Morris, 

 under shrubbery and other vegetation about limestone ledges, 

 not under rocks. This locality had been very recently burned over 

 and the fire was -till raging to the southward. We found numerous 

 examples of this species on the burned ground, in a crumbly con- 

 dition owing to the heat, but in a few small patches of brush 

 untouched by the fire we found about thirty live ones. It is not 

 improbable that the gulch where the fire was burning is the Hemp- 

 hill locality. 



The examples from Sta. 1-4 are old and much weathered, so that 

 the sculpture is obscure on most of them, but where preserved it is 

 the same as in those from Sta. 15, though the carina is not so pro- 

 nounced on the average, and they vary more in size and altitude. 

 This i- a strongly carinated form, otherwise resembling Hemphill's 

 variety hydrida, from Logan. In the best specimens the revolving 

 riblets may be seen with the naked eye, with revolving threads 

 in the interspaces visible under a lens, the intersections of these rib- 

 and threads with the irregular transverse riblets, give to it a 

 knobbed appearance as seen under a lens. This sculpture is charac- 

 teristic of the haydeni group. The primary revolving riblets, six 

 or eight in number, are rather regularly spaced, especially below. 

 Most of our specimens are under 16 mm. in diameter, but the largest 

 one measured is 22 mm., and has two rather strong color bands, 

 one barely below and the other well above the periphery. 



The Provo District. 



Provo i- south of Salt Lake City and at the base of the same range 

 of mountain-, hence it b not surprising to find the same >pecies 

 common her.-. Hemphill reported "typical strigosa and cooperi, 

 large and small," from this locality. Doubtless his strigosa was 

 depr< 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa CklL). 



Sta. 44, visited Ijy Daniels only. Rock Canyon, due east of Provo, 

 in limestone slides bordered by oak brush. Many examples with 

 the color bands faint or wanting, a few strongly banded. Two 

 sinistral shells were found. Show- same anatomical peculiarity as 

 at Tooele. Sta. 7. 



Sta. 4."), visited by Daniels only. Slate Canyon, firsl one Bouth of 

 Sta. 44. limestone slides bordered by scrub oak brush. Banding 

 even less prominent than at Sta. 4 1. 



The Salt Lake City District. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa CklL). 



Sta. bi. about a mile up Emigration Canyon, southeast of Salt 

 Lake City, south Bide of canyon, under mountain maple- and other 



getation in fine limestone slide rock. This i- a strongly banded 

 form whose anatomy, according to Dr. Pilsbry, agrees with that of 

 depressa from Colorado Springs and other localities, as well as from 

 our stations 2 near McCammon, Idaho) and 28 (near Brigham, 

 Ttah 1 . The shells, however, of tlii— lot and those from Sta. '2 differ 

 markedly from those of typical depressa from Durango, Morrison, 

 Steamboal Springs and other Colorado localities. Their relative 

 altitude and the altitude of their whorls in proportion to the trail-- 



diameter are much greater, and they scarcely -how any of the 

 peripheral subcarination in front of the aperture so common, indeed 

 almost universal, in Colorado -hells of this subspecies. On the 

 other hand, however, other lot- from elsewhere in 1'tah. notably 

 Dear ( tgden, appear to grade this lot quite well into typical depn 

 so that, from any information we now have, we do not dare to make 

 any separation. Oreohelices usually differ in relative altitude within 

 any given -peep- or subspecies, and only the uniformity of the 

 increased altitude in this colony make- u- hesft 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa I a carnea ' Bemph.). 



I'm-, nphill, Nautilus, IV . 15, 1890. Binney, 



Ith Suppl to '5th Vol I'M- Moll ' 9 . p 174, I 



31 • !•'.. Dry Canyon, about a mile from the University of Utah, 



near Salt bake City, in scrub oak and mountain maple thicket- on 



lime-tone, visited by Henderson in company with William McArthur. 



This form was Found abundantly here, the Color band- faint or 



wanting on most example-, but quite strong on a few. < >n an av> i 

 the specimens have a higher spire than typical depressa, but many 

 of them are well depressed. The description of il<i>n>^<i appeared 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \< aukmv OF [May. 



in the same magazine in January, IS'.mi, the reference to Bmney'e 

 figure seeming to make it a good description, thus antedating carina 

 by five months. 0. var. cornea is not a well-marked variety, and 

 the question of making ii a subspecies, or a mere color variety, or 

 rejecting the name altogether, may be purely a matter of opinion, 

 Inn it is not quite typical depressa. 



Hemphill records "typical strigosa and cooperi, both Large and 

 small," from near Salt Lake City. 



The Ogdex District. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 20, about eight miles up Ogden Canyon, easl of Ogden, in 

 rock slide below a limestone ledge at southwest end of a railroad 

 bridge, south side of creek. Large, fine specimens, abundant, 

 strongly handed, some measuring over 26 mm., a few very dark- 

 colored. Professor Cockerell says this is the sort of snail he called 

 "form major." 6 



Sta. 21, north side of creek, I to \ mile below Sta. 20, under moun- 

 tain maples, a few large specimens, up to 26 mm., and up slope in 

 rock slide, the same form abundant, but averaging smaller, about 

 21 mm. 



Sta. 22, south side of creek, half a mile further down, in slide of 

 limestone and a micaceous rock, same subspecies, large, exceedingly 

 abundant. Also half a mile further down under similar conditions. 

 Dr. Pilsbry says of the Oreohelix from this station. "This lot is 

 representative of a race of strigosa slightly differing from depressa 

 in anatomy. The shells seem to me to differ by being less sharply 

 -triate, but were it not for the genital difference I would probably 

 not have noticed this." A later letter, however, says that two lots 

 afterwards examined seem intermediate, so that the argument from 

 the anatomy is weakened, and there is no appreciable difference in 

 the shell characters. The same anatomical differences he noted for 

 stations 7, 10 and 13, near Tooele. 



Sta. 23, further down creek on south side, opposite thick deposit 

 of consolidated Quaternary gravel, in gneissic slide rock and adjacent 

 bushes, with limestone showing far up slope at top of canyon wall, 

 from which the wash is down over the slide. The same subspecies 

 of Oreohelix, abundant, mostly rather high-spired. 



At Sta. 22 we found also one of each of the following species: 



6 See Nautilus, III, 102. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Succinea avara Say. 



Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland). 



Agriolimax campestris (Binney). 



It may be well to add that this canyon is the type locality of 

 Vertigo corpulenta parietalis (Ancey), and that Hemphill's Patula 

 gtriatella from here is probably Pyramidvla cronkhitei anthonyi Pils. 



Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.). ?. PI. XVI. 



a strigosa var. buttonii Bemphill, in Binney's 3rd Suppl. to 5th Vol. 

 Terr. Moll. I'. S., ]>. 220, 1890, Box Elder Co., Utah. Binney, 4th Suppl. 

 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S.. p. 171. PL I. ti--. J and 10, 1892 



Stations Hi. 17, 18 and 19, Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, south of 

 Ogden Canyon, under poison ivy, elderberry, mountain maple and 

 other shrubbery about limestone ledges, the farthest station being 

 about half a mill- up the canyon, and 19 being jusl outside the canyon 

 and to the south, at an old lime kiln. Color ligKl brown to nearly 

 white, eolor bands from very taint to strong, varying somewhat in 

 width. 



Sta. 24, half hour'- walk below Gateway, in Weber Canyon, 

 Boutheasl of < tgden, Utah, on south side of canyon in gneiss slide rock, 

 no limestone seen, and another similar slide halt' a mile farther down. 



Sta. 2."). about half mile above mouth of Weber Canyon, south 

 Bide, south of canal, WO to 500 yards below Utah Lighl and Railway 

 ( !o.'s power plant, in a similar slide. 



Dr. Pilsbry ha- examined material from all these Btations except 

 19, and identified it as above. Many example- have strong spiral 

 eolor band-, and neatly all from 17 have. Otherwise they agree 

 well with those under this name in Clapp's Hemphill collection. 

 The tooth on the columellar margin i- very often absent. 



At Sta. 17 we also found Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Oreohelix peripherica Incej i'! XV. fig l 



Sta. 21'), wesl side of gulch which comes into North < >gden ( lanyon 



half a mile or BO above it- mouth, abundant m scrub oak and Other 



brush on hard sandstone and conglomerate overlaid by limestone, 

 but not found in rock -lide. This species and its varieties are more 

 fully discussed under the Cache Junction District. At Sta. 26 the 

 specimens collected average larger and smoother, bul present the 

 usual variation in Bize, as well a- in the coarseness of sculpture and 

 elevation of the -pire. Many are plain, others with two narrow 

 bands, either fainl especially on 'he last whorl) or well-marked, 

 but mine here with the broad, nearly black bands and white periphery 

 of the aWofasciata type, thouuh some -how a very slight tendencj in 




PROCEEDINGS OF Tin: A.CADEMT OF [May, 



that direction, while a few have a faint chestnul tinge suffusing the 

 whole shell, suggesting a tendency to approach the form castaneus. 

 Two reversed examples were found. 



The Brigham Distrk t. 



At Sta. 27, at a spring beside a poplar grove just outside the 

 mouth of the first canyon north of Brigham, Utah, in a thin film of 

 water flowing over small rocks, we found a small form of Phyea, 

 which is tentatively identified as P. cooperi Tryon (?) by Mr. Bryant 



Walker, who adds: "Though slightly larger, these agree very well 

 with some from California named by Hannibal." 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 28, up the steep canyon east of Sta. 27, in sandstone and 

 lime-tone -lides at edge of small mountain maple and oak thickets 

 and other shrubbery. Conditions were not very favorable and 

 specimens were rather scarce and small, not running above 19 mm. 

 in diameter. 



The Cache Junction District. 



We include in this district the Wheelon, Clarkston and Newton 

 >tations, as they are all within a few miles of Cache Junction, Utah, 

 and most of them produced some form of Oreohelix peripherica 

 (Anceyi, which we wish to discuss somewhat fully. At the stations 

 south and west of the Junction we found the most interesting colonies 

 of Oreohelix we have ever visited. Hemphill collected the same 

 forms not very far from our stations, and recorded and distributed 

 them variously as from the "banks of Bear river, North of Brigham, " 

 or -imply "Box Elder County, Utah." Our stations 29, 30, 31 and 

 32 are close to the Bear River, in Cache County, just east of the 

 Box Elder County line. Indeed. 29 may be really within Box 

 Elder County. Stations 33 and 34 are just west of the line in Box 

 Elder County, and likewise close to the river. 



Hemphill camped on the "banks of the Bear River," north of 

 Brigham, where the valley "was considerably broken by mountain 

 -pur-, through one of which the river had cut its way. leaving high, 

 rocky cliffs on either side, with scattered clump- of bushes along 

 the river and on the edges of the bluffs." Wheelon is located ju.-t 

 where the river leaves the gorge, our Sta. 33 is not far below Wheelon. 

 34 within the gorge above Wheelon, 30, 31 and 32 just within tin- 

 upper part of the gorge, 29 on the bank of the river just above the 

 entrance to the gorge, while Cache Junction itself is in the valley 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



perhaps a couple of miles up the river from the gorge A cartful 

 consideration of the topography and biological conditions, in con- 

 nection with Hemphill'- notes, convinced us that hi- camp was just 

 below Wheelon, for in his search for Oreohcli.v he would surely have 

 camped close to the mountain^, tin- valley here being quite unfavora- 

 ble to land snails. His first find was "on the brow of the bluff 

 and the slope toward- the river."' evidently near his cam]) and 

 surely not far from our Sta. 33. There he found his 0. binneyi, 

 "all plain white." Binney adds, "no revolving band- of color," 

 but his figure seems to indicate one taint, narrow peripheral band. 

 Next he found, apparently near by, "in a clump of bushes among 

 leaves and brush," hi- variety albofasciata, -hell "clouded, with 

 the broad, revolving white band at the periphery. None in the 

 bushes were white." (Later, he modified and extended the descrip- 

 tion, with an added figure.) At the various stations where we 

 found typical albofasciata our experience was quite the reverse. 

 We found at some stations the unhanded and narrowly-banded 

 forms without aJbofasciata, but nowhere did we find albofasciata 



without a large proportion of the linbanded and narrowly-banded 



form-, a peculiarity of distribution reminding our of such instances 

 be -ini-t ral form- of PupiUa In l» 8 and syngi n< >. and the bigranata 

 form of P. milSCOrum, which may be found in either pure or mixed 

 oies. There are reasons for surmising that Hemphill sorted 

 hi- material in the field and wrote hi- published note- long afterward 

 from memory, which, if it be the case, may account for the dis- 

 crepancy in our find-. Then at the rocky cliff- three mile- from 

 camp, presumably Bomewhere near our stations 30, 31, 32 and 34, 

 he found binneyi among the bushes, and "the ribbed variety casta- 

 Binney's fi'_ r -. 11 and 14), "on :i mossy, grassy -lope directly 

 at the toot of a high cliff," a -pot which he says wa- continually 

 -haded from the -un throughoul the day. Across a ravine at the 

 foot ,,f another cliff, in wild rye, he found gouldi Binney's figs. 5 and 

 16 . all -mall, this form having two narrow dark bands, according 

 to the figures. All these forms are transversely ribbed. At every 

 station we found them intermingled, enormously variable in size, 

 shape, color and sculpture, so completely grading together that we 

 were compelled to believe them to belong to one protean species, 

 and the same as A.ncey's previously described />< ri/>h< m n. a con- 

 clusion reached al-o i.y Dr. Pilsbry some time 



■vil. 163 




330 PROCEEDINGS 01 nil: \< \dkmv OF [May, 



[Patula strigosa] var. newcombi was named without description 

 by Binnt-y in lss.") Man. Aincr. I.. Shells, p. 481), designating I'. 8. 

 Natl. Mus. Nos. 39,023 and 39,025 to 39,038, from ••near Ogden," 

 "Wasatch Mountains" and "Box Elder Canyon." In hi- Second 

 Suppl. Terr. Moll., issr>, be figured and briefly described it, bence 

 th»- name La valid only from that date The description and figures 

 indicate much fewer and more widely -paced ribs than any ol our 

 material from that region. O. wasatchensis (Hemph.) ma\ conned 

 up with peripherica a- a subspecies, through newcombi bul it is 

 doubtful, ami until that problem can he investigated it seems Wetter 

 to consider it a full species. 



Oreohelix peripherica \ PI. XV, Gga. 1, 2, :i, i 



Helix idahoensis Newcomb, var. peripherica Ancey, L< Naturaliste, IV. 



103 1881. 

 Patula sir i, /,, si i, vara, binneyi, multicostala, gouldi, albofasciala and cast 



Hemphill, in Binney'a '-'ml Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. I'. S., pp. '-"■» 32, 



PI. II. figs. 3-6, 8, 11. 13, 14, lti, 1886; Ith Suppl., p. 171, PL 4, fig. 9, 1892. 

 Palula peripherica (1882, multicostala 1886 and castaneus. Ancey, The 



ConchologiBts' Exchange, II. 64, 1887. 

 imidula strigosa binneyi ami forms multicostala, castanea ami albofasciala 



Pilsbry, Naut., XI, Ml, is9s; Cat. Amor. Land Shells, p. 32, 1898. 

 ( h-i kIk lix peripherica and local race- binneyi, newcombi, multicostala, gouldi, 



albofasciala and castaneus Pilsbry, Naut.. XXVII, 53 54, 1913, 



The following is a free translation from the French of Aneey's 

 original description: 



"I owe to the kindness of Dr. Newcomb a second variety of this 

 species, with the same shape as the first one, bul with a more open 

 umbilicus, ornamented on the periphery with two narrow brown 

 lines, the lower one being more decidedly marked, and provided 

 with ribs, close, irregular and little in relief. It so closely resembles 

 the shape of Helix (Anguispira) cooperi W. G. Binn., that I think 

 it might well he an hybrid displaying the characteristics of the 

 Helix idahoensis and cooperi. It measures 9 mm. in height and 14 

 mm. in diameter, and comes from Utah. As to form and color it 

 looks much like the Helix cooperi (No. 136) of Binney and Bland's 

 Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America, but it ha- ribs, 

 while the latter has none. I propose t<> name this interesting variety 

 Helix idahoensis Newcomb var. peripherica." 



The • fir-t one" referred to above is 0. idahoensis. We see no reason 

 for making this a subspecies or variety of either idahoensis, strigosa 

 <>r cooperi. It i- interesting to note that Ancey himself pointed out 

 it- identity with mvtticostata and the priority of his name, in his 

 paper above cited from The Conchologists 1 Exchange. A careful 

 study of Hemphill's material in the Clapp collection, taken in 




1916.] NATURAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



connection with a study of our own material, both in the field and 

 in the laboratory, convinces us that the forms mentioned in the 

 foregoing synonymy should nol be separated as subspecies. Some 

 of the names may be useful as descriptive terms, provided they are 

 used in such a way as to indicate their rank. The form albofasadhi, 

 especially, is a good color form, but the same variation is seen in 

 various colonies of <l<pr<ss<i and cooperi, though seldom or never 

 quite so strikingly developed. 



Hemphill says of castaru us that mosl of them arc "faintly marked 

 with the broad white band of albofasciata, hut a tew are plain chestnut 



colored." This is exactly the variation that occur- sporadically in 

 many colonic- of <h jtn ssa and cooperi, and did not warrant the 

 sending out of material from that colony under a distinct name. 

 though it may have beeu appropriate to have selected the plain 



chestnut-colored examples and -cut them out .-,- mere color form-. 

 Four specimens in < Ilapp's Eemphill collection are labelled castaru us. 

 Two of them, from Box Elder County, ("tali, are almosl typical 

 aJbofasciata. The other two. from Eastern Oregon, are not at all 



closely related to the other-, and appear to he -imply dark, unhanded 



example- of some undetermined species such a- so frequently occur 

 sporadically. The separation of the form- muUicostata and gcruldi 

 wa- based chiefly upon a slighl difference in the aumber and promi- 

 nence of the ribs. A- tin' ribs are extremely variable at all the 

 stations of the species, and the material separated ami labelled by 



Hemphill shows minute gradation in tin- respect, as well as in color 



and form, throughout his whole group of "varieties" from this 

 district, probably no good purpose is served by retaining both of 

 the name-, though the average of the ribbing Ls so much more pro- 

 nounced -it some localities thai it may be convenienl to retain one 

 of the name- without giving it subspecific rank, in which case 

 muUicostata should be selected. 



Sta. 29, steep easl hank of Bear River below ('ache Junction, 

 ju-t above the entrance to the gorge by which the river breaks 

 through the mountain range to Wheelon, under shrubbery on whitish 

 limestone. Oreohelix, connecting the unbanded forms of periph 

 with the Btrongly banded albofasciata form. In examining 69 live 

 specimens from a space about two rod- wide and several rods long, 

 30 'form '>" found to have scarcely i suggestion of color 



hand-; 26 form albofasciata have B dark hand 3 to 1 mm. wide 

 just below the suture, then a white peripheral hand of ahoiit the 



-.Hue width, a dark band below the periphery varying from l \q 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \< UDEMY OF M • 



4 mm., the lower margin of this band irregular, often producing a 

 "clouded" effect, and a broad white band around the umbilicus, 

 such as sometimes occurs around the umbilicus of strongly albo- 

 iated types of cooperi and depresm; L3 grade almost insensibly 

 from the albofasdata form to the binneyi form. Frequently a marrow 

 white band occurs just below the suture, and the upper edge of the 

 white peripheral band is exposed well up the spire, of the higher- 

 Bpired albofasciata specimens. Transverse ribs average about two 

 to the millimeter, rather irregular, growth lines showing in the 

 interspaces and microscopic spiral stria' on the ribs and in the inter- 

 spaces. The color bands are very dark, often forming a striking 

 contrast with the white peripheral and umbilical bands. Diameter 

 15 to 19 mm. (PL XVII, fig. 2.) 



Sta. 30, southeast of Sta. 29, directly opposite the power plant 

 dam at the entrance to the gorge, at base of Paleozoic limestone 

 rocks on the lower slope of the mountain, where the vegetative 

 cover is poor and rock slide absent or unexposed. Form rmdticostaia, 

 banding weak or absent, ribbing pronounced, diameter 12 to 16 nun., 

 mostly dead specimens, the slope having been very recently burned 

 over. * (PI. XV, fig. 2.) 



Sta. 31, farther up the slope, at a heavy, steep limestone ledge, 

 beneath a decumbent species of polygonaceous plant which clings 

 closely to the rock. Form multicostata , abundant, much smaller than 

 at Sta. 30, most examples with a narrow and often faint subperipheral 

 color band, and some with a similar band just above the periphery; 

 diameter of adults from 8 to 12 mm., altitude extremely variable 

 (PI. XV, fig. 3). The snails increase in size again a hundred feet 

 farther up the slope. Stations 30. 31 and 32 form practically a 

 continuous colony, which we separated into stations merely because 

 of the astonishing difference in size within a short distance. Our 

 observations upon this genus lead us to observe that any given 

 species is likely to vary greatly in size with variation in cover. We 

 also found here 97 Pupilla blandi (Morse) and 5 Vallonia cyclo- 

 phorella Ancey and V. sonorana Pils. 



Sta. 32, at the base of a limestone cliff above Sta. 31, where the 

 vegetative cover is better and the cliff affords considerable shade. 

 Forms albofasciata and binneyi, intergrading as at Sta. 29, except 

 that few are so pronouncedly of the albofasciata tj-pe as at 29. Diame- 

 ter from 9 to 16 mm. 



Sta. 33, ravine that cuts back into the east bluff of Bear River 

 valley, just below Wheelon, Box Elder County, probably not a great 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



distance from Hemphill's camp, above irrigation canal, in a dense 

 thicket of birches and mountain maples. Forms albofasciata and 

 binneyi, showing the same intergradation as at Sta. 29, bul a smaller 

 proportion strongly banded. Of -V2-\ live ones examined, only 39 

 showed very marked hand-, most of which were as heavily handed 

 as at - _ )( .). Diameter 16 to 18 mm. In the dried-up backwater from 

 the canal at this point we found 80 Lymnaea parva Lea (identified by 

 Walker). 1 Planorbis parvus Say, 7 Physa gyrina Say (?), 2 Zonitoides 

 arborea Say and 1 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Sta. 34, above Wheelon, in a ravine on the easi side of the gorge, 

 at the south end of the railroad bridge southwesl of the tunnel, only 

 a few rods within the eastern border of Box Elder County, under 

 mountain maple, scrub oak and other brush. The same forms of 

 Oreohelix as at stations '-".» and 33, but the albofasciata form propor- 

 tionately more numerous than at Sta. 33, the banding varying 

 greatly in degree as elsewhere. 



It will be noted that wherever the form albofasciata was found, 



it was associated with the binneyi form, and that at n • of the 



albofasciata stations was tin- ribbing as pronounced as at stations 

 30 and 31, at which Done of the typical albofasciata were found. 

 This suggests that notwithstanding tin complete intergradation in 

 all the observed characters of these -nail- at stations 29 to 34, it 

 may become necessary to recognize two distincj subspecies. In 

 that event the name peripherica should he adopted for the multi- 

 Ua form, because it better conforms i" Ajicey's description and 

 Ainey himself recognized the identity of these two. ami did not 

 recognize their identity with any of the other named form-. Then 

 the forms from stations 29, 33, '■'< 1 and ;!7 may be called 0. /« ripfu 

 binm . Hemph.), with albofasciata a- a color form. hi 

 specimens from these stations bave been retained for breedinf 

 experiments. 



Sta. -',7. about five mile- across the valley due west of Sta. 36 



a mile or 90 SOUthwest of ( 'I:uk-t on. in a ravine in the easi slopi 



the smie narrow mountain range that the river cut- through at 



•n- •_".» t . . 34, and probably no1 more than three mill- norths 

 of 29, under low bushes. Thebinneyi and albofasciata form-, showing 

 the usual interm.idat ion-. From the topographic and biologii 

 conditions observed at :t distance, il is not unlikel) that this colon} 

 extends with a few narrow interruptions, to a point on the river hank 

 ju-t opposite Sta. 2!'. 

 Sta. 36, west slope of :i -mall, rounded, barren-looking, isolated, 




33 1 PRO( EEDING8 OF nn: \« \di:mv 01 | M : < \ . 



( alcareous mountain aortheasl * » t" Newton, due easl of Sta. ^7, under 

 the shrub Kunzia tridentata and weeds. We found here, on a very 

 unpromising slope, in considerable abundance, an Oreohelix which 

 appears to be identical with the smooth form <>l' peripherica from 

 Sta. 26, ni North ( >gden ( 'any on. but the specimens average mm new hat 

 smaller at Sta. 36 and more in keeping in this respect with the other 

 />< ripfu run stations. 



Oreohelix rugosa Bemph 



\a strigosa var. rugosa Hemphill, Naut., IV, 16-17, 1890. Kinney's 

 1th Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., p. 174, 1892. 

 Sta. •">. a little north of wesl from Clarkston, on the cast slope of 

 the same mountain range as Sta. : >~ and not more than two or three 

 miles distant, probably about one-third of the way up the mountain, 

 under scrnl) oak and sage brush. A comparison of this material 

 with 0. rugosa in Clapp's Hemphill collection shows them to be 

 identical. The shells remind one of 0. hendersoni Pilsbry, or rather 

 of the subspecies dakani Henderson, but Dr. Pilsbry's anatomical 

 examination disproves its relationship to hendersoni. It must be 

 remembered, however, that the connection between hendersoni and 

 dakani is hypothetical, and rugosa may prove to be a prior name for 

 the latter. The anatomy indicates a closer relationship to cooperi 

 than to strigosa or depressa, but the shell characters do not appear to 

 grade it into any of those forms, so it is for the present assigned to 

 specific rank. The specimens vary greatly in altitude, as is so 

 frequently the case in this genus. 



Pisidium huachucanum Pils. and l 



Found in a spring at Clarkston, Utah, associated with the next 

 sptc>- Both identified by Dr. Sterki. 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gould). 



In a spring at Clarkston, Utah. 



< >n the bank of Bear River, due west of Cache Junction, we found 

 a single dead shell of Planorbis frivohis. At Sta. 35, a brook northeast 

 of Newton, we found a Physa rather plentiful, which was tentatively 

 identified by Mr. Bryant Walker as P. distinguenda Tryon (?), but 

 Dr. Pilsbry says it "'agrees very exactly with the type of Physa 



< n'ljKri." 



The Trenton District. 



Trenton, Utah, lies a few miles to the north of Newton and Cache 

 Junction. 




l'.'lfi. NATUBAL B4 LENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Oreohelix peripherica An. \ 



Sta. 4. •"The ( Jlififs, " one mile south of Trenton, od a small, isolated 

 mountain similar to Sta. 36. The smooth form of this species, like 

 that found at station- 26 North Ogden ami 36 Newton), was 

 found hen-. A few show the strong ribbing of tin- form binneyi, 

 but the ribs arc not so prominent a- in the form midticostota. A 

 fire had recently destroyed the brush ami leaves, so live specim< as 

 were scarce, hut dead -hell- were abundant. Two abnormal speci- 

 mens arc represented on PI. XV, fig. 1. 

 Sphaerium pilsbryanum Sterki 



A few dead shells found in an irrigating ditch near Trenton, from 

 which the water hail hi en withdrawn for some time. The species was 

 described from Bear Lake a- a fossil or subfossil. Dr. Sterki writes 

 that he has one fresh specimen from Utah Lake. 



The Logan Distkmt. 



Binney recorded Thymnophora ingersolli (Bland) under the generic 

 name Microphysa, from Logan Canyon, collected by Hemphill 

 2nd Suppl. Terr. Moll., p. 35). It is probably the same form that 

 Ancev. lvs?. described from the same canyon as M. ingersoUi con- 

 venor (Conch. Lxch., II. 64). We did not visil this canyon. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 41. first gulch south of Logan Canyon, easl of Logan, Utah, 

 m the edges of Paleozoic lime-ton. • talus. A small form of this 

 subspecies, running ahout is..", mm. m diameter, mostly strongly 

 banded, a few plain, not abundant, conditions evidently rather 

 unfavorable. A few examples strongly resemble 0. "var. edbida" 

 Hemph. . the type locality of which is "near Logan." 



Oreohelix haydeni hybrida Hemph I. PI XV, Bj i 



1'titnin ttrigom var. hybrida Hemphill. Nun . IV. !7. L890 

 Sta. 12, not far within the mouth of the next gulch -out h of Sta. 41, 



under mountain maple and other shrubbery, herbs and rock-. The 

 mails were found in fair abundance, a few wi1 b color bands, sculptur 

 almosi exactly like thai of 0. h. gdbbiana from stations li and 15, 

 hut the keel i- much Less | >roin»unce< I : 1 1 1 ■ I often almosi wanting on 

 the lasl whorl. This i- doubtless the form thai Hemphill firsl re- 

 oorded as "the variety with microscopic ribs, beginning of hayd* 

 among stones at the head of a gulch high on the mountains" Binney't 

 2nd Suppl. Terr. Moll., p. 31 1, possibly the same gulch from which 

 we collected it. Later, m describing and naming the subspecies, tie 

 explame.l that it ,- i- the beginning of the form- of itriqota thai 




336 pbo< bbdinos of thb \< w<\ w\ op [May, 



finally develop the revolving lines into prominenl ribs as Been on the 

 surface of var. haydeni ( !al>l». " 



The Franklin District. 



Franklin is situated in Idaho, a mile or two north of the northern 



line of Utah, and Sta. 38 is in Idaho, bu1 stations :>'.) and 40 arc 



a mile and a half or two miles south of the line in Utah. 



Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemphill). Pi XVI, fig. l. 



Patula strigosa var. fragilis Hemphill, Naut., IV. 17-18, 1890. Binney'a 

 4th Suppl. Terr. Moll., pp. 174-17:., 1892. 



Sta. 38, a small, isolated, barren-looking mountain about a mile 

 wrest of Franklin, Idaho, in the edges of Paleozoic limestone slides 

 surrounded by sage brush. The specimens from this station are 

 small (few exceeding 17 mm. in diameter), much depressed, not 

 quite so fragile as from the next station, and with a wider umbilicus, 

 as would be expected from the depressed form. The noticeably 

 translucent shell and general appearance, however, connects them 

 with this subspecies, rather than with typical depressa. From this 

 station we have also 1 VaUonvx cyclophorella Ancey, 1 Pupilla blandi 

 (Morse) and 2 Succinea avara Say. 



Sta. 39, Prater Gulch, south of High Creek Canyon, Utah, about 

 six miles southeast of Franklin, Idaho, nearly east of the railroad 

 -tat ion of Webster, Utah, in quartzite talus. Rare in several slides 

 visited, very abundant in one. The specimens are typical, but 

 rather larger than most of those in Clapp's Hemphill collection, 

 averaging about 20 mm. in diameter, altitude variable in its propor- 

 tion to transverse diameter, but nearly all higher than the average 

 from Sta. 38. Tin- subspecies is closely allied to depressa, but differs 

 slightly in anatomy, in the translucency and fragility of the shell, 

 and in the narrowing of the umbilicus by the reflected base of the 

 columella. Near Franklin, on red sandstone, is given as the type 

 locality. One might be led to suspect that the fragility of shell is 

 due to lack of lime, from the fact that Hemphill's material came 

 from sandstone and our Xo. 39 from quartzite, but the snails from 

 Sta. 38, in a limestone habitat, are also fragile, though to a less 

 degree, while depressa from quartzite slides are not fragile. The 

 St a. 39 shells are so fragile that many of them were broken in carrying 

 them in the bags until we found time to clean them, a thing which 

 did not happen with any other Oreohelices we collected, and they 

 were not subjected to as hard usage as some. Indeed, it was the 

 fact that they broke so easily that attracted our attention in the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



field to the probability that we had Hemphill's fragilis, which neither 

 of us had seen before. 



At this station Viirina alaskana Dall was noted, but not taken. 



Oreohelix haydeni corrugata Dew aubspecies. PI. XVII, fig. l. 



Shell rathei globose; spire elevated, one <>r two example- tabulate; 

 whorls 5 to 5§, ample, convex, lasl one scarcely carinated at the 

 periphery on elevated specimens; spiral sculpture strong, closely 

 resembling thai of typical haydeni and the subspecies betheli, con- 

 sisting of an average of aboul L3 strong, -harp ridges i in a few exam- 

 ple- scarcely stronger than the riblets), the inter-pace- much broader 

 and occupied by from :; to 6 spiral riblets or thread-: numerous 

 crowded, irregular, transverse riblets and growth lines roughen the 

 -hell and give to the spiral ridges and riblets a knobbed appearance 

 under a lens; color pinkish-white to white, fir-t 2 or 3 whorl- dark 

 horn-color; altitude of type in Qniv. Colo. Museum, 1 1 mm. : greater 

 diameter, is mm.; lesser diameter L5.7 mm.; cotype in collection of 

 1.. E. Daniels 13 mm.; greater diameter, 18.5 mm.; lesser diameter, 

 in mm.: cotype in Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., alt. 14, diam. 1 ( . • . 7 

 mm.: umbilicus deep and very narrow, ahno-t cylindrical, exhibiting 

 whorl- to the apex. The shell is more globose, the whorls of greater 

 caliber and the umbilicus much narrower than in typical haydeni, 

 and typical betheli i- even more depressed and widely umbilicated 

 For purposes of comparison we republish Gabb's figure of haydeni 

 PI. XVIII, fig. :; . and original figures of betheli (PL XVIII, fig. l l 

 and it- variety alia (PI. XVIII, fig. 2 . neither of which have been 

 hitherto figured. Binney's figures of haydeni do not appear to be 

 typical. Type locality, Sta. l". a small mountain of Paleozoic 

 lime-tone nearly isolated from the main chain, south of weal from 



39, and southeasl of Webster, Utah, under the shrub Kumia 

 trideniata and coarse-leafed herbaceous plants, and in one place in a 

 -mall rock slide. Abundant. Tin- subspecies form- another 

 eption to Hemphill's observation concerning the geographic 

 dividing line between the transversely-ribbed and longitudinally- 

 ribbed form- (Binney's 2nd Suppl. Ten-. Moll., p. 31, l SSi ' 

 Hemphill recorded haydeni from the Oquirrh Mountains and 



from uear Ogden, bul .-i large series in Clapp's Hemphill col- 

 lection labelled partly oquirrhensis, partly haydeni and partly hemp- 

 li'lii, all from "near Sail Lake," doe- not disclose any difference 

 between them, and should probably all he called oquirrh* ccepl 



perhaps two much more elevated examples which may he from, a 

 different localitv. 




PROCEEDINGS 01 THE LCADEM1 01 [May, 



The Mil ' \\m< in I )istri< 

 McCammon, Idaho, is about fifty miles aorthwesl of Franklin. 



Oreohelix cooperi fW. G. B.), 



Sta. 1. one mile north of Mc( lammon, [daho, on the aorth side of 

 the railroad. Several additional faint, narrow color bands below 

 periphery. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 2, about six miles up Harkness Canyon, directly east of 

 McCammon, below the first limestone ledge, under leave- and small 

 stones. This form is allied to depressa by it- anatomy, bu1 is on the 

 average much less depressed, the whorls more convex, and few aj?e 

 strongly banded, though most of them show some traces of color 

 bands, and a number exhibit several faint, narrow band- below, 

 such a- air so common in 0. cooperi, but not so usual in depressa. 



Oreohelix tenuistriata new Bpeci a. I'l XV. figs. .">. 6. 



Shell -mall, rather depressed: whorls about -U, convex, carinated: 

 transverse sculpture consists of numerous, crowded, sharp, wavy 

 lines, presenting a beautiful appearance under a lens, crossed by 

 a number of indistinct, raised, spiral lines; umbilicus open, exhibiting 

 all of the whorls; color of live shell unknown, but probably a dirty 

 white; exact measurements of adult unknown, but diameter about 

 9 mm., altitude about 5 or 5.5 mm. The paratype in ('oil. Ariel. 

 Nat. Sri. Phila. measures, alt. 5.1, diam. 8.5 mm. In general appear- 

 ance and sculpture it closely resembles 0. carinifera Pils.. but the 

 transverse sculpture is sharper than in the two specimens of that 

 -perjr- we have been able to examine. Also the second embryonic 

 whorl is sharply striate and convex, while in carinifera and hemphilli 

 it is smooth and convex and in yavapai it is smooth and Hatter. 



Type locality. Sta. H, a canyon between McCammon and Hot 

 Lava Springs, Idaho, about two miles southwest of the latter place. 

 Only three examples were found, all more or less broken. One is 

 in The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, one in the 

 University of Colorado, and the type in the collection of Mr. Daniels. 

 These specimens were all submitted to Dr. Pilsbry, who says they 

 represent an undescribed species and belong to the hemphilli and 

 carinifera group. With more and better material this may prove 

 to be a subspecies of one or the other, but it does not at present seem 

 probable. With it were found, sparingly, Vallonia gracilicosta 

 Reinh., Euconidus fidvus Mull, and Vitrina <iI<isI;<uki Dall. 




1916.] NATURAL 5< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Pisidium huachucanum Pils. and Ferr 



In a spring near Port Neuf River, north of McCammon, Idaho. 

 Identified by Dr. Sterki. 



Explanation of Plate- XV. XVI, XVII, XVIII. 



Plate XV. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix peripherica, >\x examples from Sta. 26, North 



< )tiden ( lanyoni, Utah. 



- - lix peripherica, six examples from Sta. 30, near Cache Junc- 



tion. Utah. 



[, nine examples from Sta. 31, near Cache 



Junction, I'tah. 

 Fig. V.— Oreohelix peripherica, two abnormal specimens from Sta. 4. near 



Trenton, Utah. 

 Fig. 5. Oreohelix n. sp., 3 views of type specimen from near 



Hoi Lava Sprint;-, [daho. In collection of L. E. Daniels. 

 Fin. »;. — Oreohi Iriata n. -\>.. '4 views ol cotype from near Hut Lava 



Springs, Idaho. In Univ. ('old. Museum. 

 Fig. 7. -Oreohelix hemp! a. subsp., '■> views "I type specimen 



From Eureka, Utah, in Univ. Colo. Museum. 

 Fig. 8. — Oreohelix hemphUli eurekensis n. subsp., 3 views of co-type from 



Eureka, Utah. In Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Plate XVI. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix strigom fragilis, six examples from Sta 

 ter, I 'tali. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix strigosa buttoni, four examples from Sta. 16, Taylor 



1 nyon, near < Igden, I 'tali. 

 Fig elix haydeni gabbiana, five examples from Sta. 16, Oquirrh 



\h- . Utah. 



lix haydeni hybrida, five examples from Sta. 12, near Logan, 

 Utah. 



Plate XVII Fig I. — Oreohelix haydeni corrugate n, subsp. Three vie? 

 four specimens from type lot, Sta. 1" southeast ol Webster, Utah. 

 Fig. 2 Oreohelix peripherica Ancey. Three views of four specimens from 

 29, near ( !ache June., Utah. 



Plate XVII] I ig I Oreohelix haydeni betheli, six examples from type 

 locality, north of river, Glenwood Springs, Colo. 

 Fig _ - betheli var. alta, eighl examples from type locality, 



south of river, Glenwood Springs, Colo 



I -eoht lix h i l ■ ibb's original figure from Imer. Journ. Conch. 




340 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHE \< \iu\n 01 [May, 



NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX, WITH A CATALOGUE OF 

 THE SPECIES. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The present study is based chiefly upon material collected by 

 Messrs. Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels in Utah and southern 

 Maho. 1 Its object is to determine the characters of the reproductive 

 organs and teeth of the species of this area, both as an aid in the 



discrimination of the specie-, and to afford a basis for comparison m 

 further work on the genus. The new catalogue of the species and 

 minor forms of Oreohelix appended, embodies the results of study 

 in the museum and field from time to time during the past ten or 

 fifteen years. 2 



The genus Oreohelix is one of the most difficult groups of land 

 snails within our boundaries by reason of the multiplicity of forms, 

 and the strange parallelism of shell characters sometimes existing 

 between species or races not directly related. This has led to erro- 

 neous identifications, with consequent errors in the data of geographic 

 distribution. 



The shell seems to be especially plastic; not only are there many 

 local races of various grades of differentiation, but in any colony of 

 some of the species one finds a wide range of variation in the features 

 usually depended on for specific discrimination, such as absolute 

 size, height of the spire, width of the umbilicus relative to the diame- 

 ter, and development of the sculpture. Sometimes colored and 

 white individuals exist in the same colony. If the banded pattern 

 is primitive in the strigosa and cooperi groups, as seems highly proba- 

 ble, then it appears that bandless or white mutations have arisen 

 independently in many colonies, where they sometimes exi>t with 

 the earlier pattern, apparently in hybrid populations. 



Eighty-six names have been proposed for forms of all grades; 

 many of these are quite insufficiently defined, and no doubt part 



■ For data relating to the localities ami shells collected reference must be made 

 to their paper "Hunting Molluscs in Utah and [daho." A few species collected 

 by Mr. Jas. H. Ferries ami the author an- also considered. 



- The writer has personally collected ten of the twenty-four species known. 

 All of the species and subspecies are contained in the collection of the Academy 

 I the following: 0. bruneri Ancey, 0. cooperi *t<nit<>ni Dall, and 0. *trigosa 

 i in i in I ' '. -on. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



of them are superfluous, either because they are synonymous with 

 other names, or because they denote variations not of racial value. 

 In many cases, further collections are requisite, as I he small, assorted 

 series of the earlier collectors give no adequate idea of the association 

 of forms in the colonies. Moreover, the location of colonies has 

 often been carelessly recorded, entailing much strenuous held work 

 on the investigator of to-day, work which could have been saved 

 by carefully noting the locations of type localities. 



Distribution of Oreohelix. 



The genus is almost confined to the western mountain region of 

 the United State-. bu1 there is our species in southern Assiniboia 

 and one near the southern boundary of Alberta. Formerly our 

 species extended eastward to eastern Iowa. Southward the genus 

 practically reaches the Mexican boundary, in the Big Bachel moun- 

 tains of New Mexico and the Huachucas of Arizona; and it will 

 probably be found below the boundary. An outlying species on 

 Catalina Island, California, is widely remote from its kindred, 

 among alien associates. 



\ northern and a southern area of speciation may be dis- 

 tinguished. The southern group occupies the southern halt oi 

 New Mexico, Arizona south of the Colorado River, and Catalina 

 el. California. It comprises all of the recenl species of the 

 subgenus Radiocentrum, and the species of Oreohelix proper which 

 have swollen penes. Species as follow-: 



0. conn ntrata. R ldio< en i ri m. 



0. "" ii-'iifi i. 0. avaloru nsis. 



0. pilsbryi. 0. chiricahuana. 



1 I lavapai. ' K < '■■ : \ 



0. barbata. 0. / 



0. socorroi m 0. hachetana. 



i >. coojh ri. 



Several of these species have one or more subspecies. 0. coopen 



occurs only a1 considerable elevations, and in form- differing some- 



what from northern specimens. 0. yavapai has been found also in 



northwestern Wyoming. It i- one of the widely distributed species. 



other sp i.il to the -outturn area. 



In the Florida and Dragoon mountains a fe^ Imperfect and very 

 ol<l specimens have been recorded doubtfully a- O.etrigosa; but it 

 seems more likely that they belong to 'In' group with swollen p< 

 some of \\ hich resemble 0. etrigosa. ^ 



The northern group occupies Arizona north of the Colorado and 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF nil: U \i>i:\n OF [May, 



northern New Mexico, north to British America, and in w- greatesl 

 amplitude from the Mississippi River (pleistocene) to eastern Wash- 

 ington. The most widely Bpread species isO. cooperi, with 0. atrigosa 

 depressa next. 0. haydeni also is Bpread over a considerable though 

 much smaller area. Most of the other species and races are rela- 

 tively local in distribution, and many are known from bu1 one or a 

 few contiguous colonies. 



Oreohelix cooperi still occurs from the Black Hills to Montana and 

 Idaho, and from Ajssiniboia to the southern third of New Mexico 

 and Arizona. It- range was formerly wider, as it is not uncommon 

 in the loess of eastern Iowa. Its presence there indicates ;i drier 

 and cooler summer climate than that of eastern [owa to-day. Where 

 I have collected 0. cooperi in the mountain state- it is a shell of 

 the "aspen zone." 



Oreohelix is rarely if ever found in abundance except where the 

 country rock is limestone. Some species, in areas largely blanketed 

 by later igneous rock, seem to be wholly restricted to the limestone 

 outcrops. They live on the surface, in dry weather finding refuge 

 under superficial stones, leaves or sticks. Except 0. barbata in the 

 ( hiricahua mountains, I do not remember ever finding Oreohelix 

 below the surface layer of stones or rocks. 



Reproductive Organs of Oreohelix. 



The genitalia have a general resemblance to the same organs in 

 Ashmunella and Sonorella, but there are some differences. There is 

 never a flagellum, though the epiphallus is well developed. The 

 penis-papilla is obsolete or wanting. The penis consists of a lower 

 segment which is longitudinally ribbed within, and an upper segment 

 with thinner walls which are densely papillose within, and enclose a 

 larger cavity. The internally ribbed part is very short in Radio- 

 centrum, but from about a third to over half the total length in 

 Oreohelix proper. The distal end is truncate or quite shortly 

 bicornute. 



In the figures, the organs are shown in nearly their natural positions, 

 except that in some cases the folds of the penis are slightly opened 

 out, to bring the epiphallus into full view. The specific characters 

 are largely a matter of measurements of the epiphallus and penis 

 and its parts. These measurements are taken with dividers after 

 pulling the organs straight, but without stretching. Thus PI. 20, 

 fig. la, and PI. 22, fig. la show the penes of two species pinned out 

 for measuring, after drawing figures in the natural positions. 




1916.] NATURAL -i IK.N' BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



All figures were drawn with an Abbe camera lucida. 



In these Proceedings for 1905, p. 271. a grouping of the species 

 of Oreohelix according to the characters of the genitalia was tenta- 

 tively advanced. The examination of many more species and local 

 races in the main confirms the arrangement then proposed. By the 

 genitalia the species group as follows. 



1. Epiphallus about as long as the penis, the retractor muscle inserted 



up<m it: internally plicate part of the penis very short; 

 animal oviparous, etc. Subgenus Radiocentrum. 



2. Epiphallus much shorter than the penis, the retractor muscle 



inserted upon both at their junction (except in 0. barbaia); 



internally plicate part of tin- penis \ to over \ <>!' its length; 



viviparous species. Subgenus Oreohelix. 

 a. Penis long, the distal part about equal in diameter to the 

 lower part, though usually collapsing on account, of the 

 thinner wall-. 0. strigosa, peripherica, hendersoni, elrodi, 

 haydeni and their varieties. Also 0. cooperi, which is 

 somewhat intermediate between groups a ami i>. being a 

 generalized species in genitalia. 

 h. Penis short, the basal part decidedly more swollen than tin- 

 distal, 0. yavapai, concentrica, metcalfei, piUbryi, barbata, 

 ,ind their varieties. 



The division of Oreohelix into "transversely ribbed," "smooth or 

 striate," and "longitudinally ribbed" groups by Hemphill and 

 Binney i- a division of convenience in the identification of specimens, 



hut it ha- no relation to the affinities of the species. 



Teeth oi < Ireohelix. 

 In Oreohelix there are two types of teeth, as W. G. Binney first 



pointed out. In one group the central and inner lateral teeth have 



no side-cusps or cutting point-. Hen- belong: 



0. strigosa (Gld.). Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. IV. fig. a. 1 



" oopen \V. c. I'.. . Binney, T. M. vol. V. PI. IV. fig. o, and 



-everal examined l>\ myself. 

 0. haydeni Gabb). Binney, T. M. vol. Y. PI. XVI, fig. b. Also 



h. hi Hull and 0. I> ■ corrugata examined by myself. 

 (>. peripherica Anc. . Binney, T. M vol. V. PI. XVI, fig. a (var. 



newcombi). Also Qumerous radulas of several forms examined 



by me. from Henderson and Daniel's Stations 29, 30 



; id remains in doubt In the same volume 



In- described and figured the genitalia "i a Salmon I. i, which would 



imabh h< I ;' perhaps arinala He gives the formula 



50-1-50 for a transversa row of teeth, As all the other specii c/tx exam- 



ined by Binney and the writ< between 20-1-20 and 33-1-33 teeth, i|^i- 



count i- remarkable, and if confirmed would certainly indicate a Bpecies distinct 

 from any other <>f which the dentition i- known, 




344 proceedings oi THE \< \m\i\ of [May 



0. atrigoaa depressa Ckll.). Pilsbry, Proc. A. \. s. Phila. l * m >.~> 

 PI. XXII, figs. ] 3 Pecos,N.M.); also from Colorado Springs! 

 Dear McCammon, Idaho, and Ogden Canyon, Utah. 

 0. Hemph.). See fig. la. Formula 19, L3, 1. 13 l<) 



0. metcalfei (( Jkll.). Formula 17. 11. l, 1 1. 17. 



hall 1 . Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. s. Phila., 1905, p. 276 

 Form huachucana I. 

 " apt FUs.). Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. s. Phila., 1905, PI. XXII, 

 fig. 7. 



Fig. I.— Central and two Inner lateral teeth of (a) Oreohelix rugosa, ami (6) 0. 



hi nil) rsoni. 



In Thr second group the central and all lateral and marginal teeth 

 have side-cusps. Of this kind are: 



0. idahoensis Newc). Binney, T. M. vol. Y, PI. IV. fig. i. 



0. hemphiUi (Newc.). 4 Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. IV. fig. j. 



0. barbata Pils., Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. S. Phila.. L905, PI. XXII, fig. 6. 



0. cMricahuana Pils., Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. S. Phila.. L905, PI. XXIP 



figs. ID. 11. 

 0. clappi Ferriss, Pilsbry, Proc. A. X. S. Phila., 1905, PI. XXII, fig. 4. 



In 0. clappi the cusps and cutting points on the central teeth are 

 very small. In 0. hendersoni ('fig. 16) they are small and partly united 

 with the lateral cutting edges of the middle cusp. This species is transi- 

 tional to the form of teeth found in 0. cooperi, 0. haydeni and others. 

 There i- therefore no hard and fast line of demarcation hetween the 

 two group-, although nearly all of the species examined are seen at 

 once to belong to one or the other, and the form of the teeth i> there- 

 fore a useful specific character. 



Nearly all of the radulse examined have 29 to 33 teeth on each 

 side of the central tooth. A U-w have noi so many, 0. yavapai 

 having 26, 0. barbata 23, and 0. hemphiUi, according to Binney, 20. 



. nney reported 0. hemphiUi from "Manitou, Williams Canyon, Colorado." 

 Th< shell from thia place need- comparison with the type of hemphiUi. \\ bether 

 hi- figure of the teeth was from the Nevada or the Colorado form is no1 known. 

 57, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. ins. La not very characteristic, and if hemp- 

 hilli. if is an immature individual. The type of 0. hemphiUi is No. 23,060 

 A. X. S 1' 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o4") 



The count of teeth is rather small for a Helicid genus. Mr. Binney's 

 count for "0. strigosa," 50— l-">n. is so detached from other known 

 species that it needs confirmation. 



Oreohelix strigosa (G14 



The anatomy of typical 0. .-<tri<i<>.-«i i- unknown, since we have yet 

 to rediscover the typical form. Hemphill's var. i><irtmi from Spokane 

 Falls is near the original strigosa, but it i- Larger and more solid. 

 Further west, at Blue Lake in the Grand Coulee, there is a -mall. 

 thin race, closely resembling jugalis Hemph. Nothing is known 

 of the -oft anatomy of any of the subspecies or races of Washington, 

 centra] and northern Idaho and Montana. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa CklL). PI. 19 - , 4, 6, 7; pi. 120, fig. 8. 



(a) Specimens from Manitou Canyon, near Colorado Springs, are 

 taken to l»e typical depressa (fig. 1). The penis i- long, from over 

 three-fourth- to more than the diameter of the shell, the internally 

 ite portion i- not swollen, and is /' ss //<"/< half the entire Length — 

 usually about one-third. It has 5 or 6 ribs inside. The distal 

 portion collapses along three line-, so that ii- section i- trefoil shaped. 

 This i- die- to three bands where the w;dl i- slightly thicker. It lies 

 coiled in the body, usually showing two principal bends. The 

 genera] appearance in different individuals is shown in pi. L9, figures 

 1. 2 (also pi. L9, fig. •">. 0. s.fragilis.) The form cornea (pi. 1'.'. fig. •'; 

 i- identical with depressa anatomically. 



In another series of specimens dissected the distal pari of the 

 penis collapses along two instead of three sides, so thai it- section 

 becomes flattened instead of triangular. It is also less coiled or 

 twisted than in typical depressa. Tin- form of penis i- shown in pi. 

 l'.t. figs. 1 .-Hid 7. and pi. 20, fig. v The lasl five measurements 

 in the table on page 346 belong to these. While the trefoil and 

 the Hat form- are almosl always readily distinguishable, ye1 in a 

 few specimens of 'he flal type I have opened, there U some indica- 

 tion of a third ridge in pari of the length Stations \>. 16, figs. •'> and 



(i .,1" plate pi . 



The tlat type i- probably more primitive than the trefoil, since it 

 • Minion to this form of strigosa, peripherica and haydeni. 



II. 11. ami I ). pi. 21 loin Mat ion 



L0, aboul 6 mile- from T >le, Utah, agrees with many specimens 



of '/< ///■- ssa in genitalia. 'I 'he distal part ,,\ the penis i- Rattened. 



The radula of 0. 8. dt pn s </ from Colorado Springs ha- 16, 17. l , 

 17 16 teeth, the central and 5 or 6 inner laterals unicuspid. 




346 



PRO< i.i di\i.> OF THE M \m:\n m 



[May, 



Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemph.). PI. 19, Bg. 5. 



Genitalia as in 0. s. depressa, the distal portion of the penis col- 

 lapsing Into a trefoil shape in the individual dissected (Station 38). 



Length of penis L8 mm.; of internally costate pari 5 mm.; epiph- 

 allus 4; penial retractor 6 nun.; diameter of the Bhell aboul 19 mm. 



Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph . PI. 31, Gg. 6 



Genitalia as in form tooelensis, 0. s. depressa from Provo, and 

 others, the penis collapsing flat. The lower part has 5 ribs within. 

 Length of penis 26 mm., of internally costate portion 10, of epiphallus 

 7 mm., penial retractor 15 nun.: vagina 6.7 mm. The specimens 



came from Station 16, Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, Utah. 



Measurements, in mm., of (hi genitalia of Oreohelix strigosa depressa. 



Locality. ° 



~ L 



u 3 

 S x 



-, 5, 



Colorado Springs, 

 Manitou Canyon 18.5 



Near Salt Lake < !ity, 



St a. 13 24 



Emigration Canyon, 

 Sta. 16 26.5 



Near Mc( 'amnion. 



[daho, Sta. 2 23.5 



28 

 < »tr'l«ii Canyon, Utah, 



Sta. 22 27.5 



Near Logan, Utah, 



Sta. 41 L9.5 



Form toot U nsis, 



Station LO 17 



( >f|nirrh Mts., Si 

 tion 13 23 



Provo, Utah, station 

 44 20.5 





5§o ~ 



= - = -. - = - 



^ r — M .& - L = ■ 



= -«_ Bg, = Z ~ 



11 

 11 



7.5 



10 

 10.5 



15 



9 

 7..") 



13.5 



7 



6.5 

 5.5 



6 



3.6 

 6.6 



23 



PI. 20 



I Ig 8 



Oreohelix hendersoni I J ils. PI. 20. fig. 7 



The length of the penis is three-fourths of the diameter of the 

 Bhell. It- internally costate segment is one-third the total length, 

 and the distal papillose portion is somewhat flattened. Length of 

 the epiphallus is contained 2| times in that of the penis. The 

 penial retractor muscle is shorter than usual in P. strigosa depressa, 




l-'lt'i.: NATURAL S< CEN( Bfi OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



The lower third of the spermatheca duct is large, then abruptly 

 contracting. There is a general similarity with the genitalia of 

 0. s. depress^. Measurements in mm. follow. Length of penis 12, 

 of its costate lower portion 4: epiphallus 4.5; penial retractor 4; 

 vagina 4: spermatheca and duel L0.5; diam. of shell 16 nun. 



The three areas of the radula appear distinct, in a slightly enlarged 

 view, the row- of marginal teeth being oblique. In most ( )reohelices 

 the areas are not well marked. The central tooth and Laterals have 

 rudimentary side cusps. Formula 16, 12, 1, 12, 16. Text fig. 16. 

 By the forms of the individual teeth and the more distinct differen- 

 tiation of areas, in the radula, this species differ- from the strigoea 

 series. 



Oreohelix haydeni Gabb). PI 21, Ggs. 1. 2. I, - 



0. haydeni does uot differ from <>. strigosa depressa in any important 

 or diagnostic characters of The genitalia or dentition, hut the features 

 of the shell seem quite sufficient to give it specific rank. 



The typical form, from Weber Canyon in the Wasatch Range, 

 has not been collected alive so far as I know. The forms examined 

 agree pretty closely in soft anatomy. The internally costate part 

 of the penis is about one-third of tin- total length. The distal 

 portion collapses flat. The penial retractor is decidedly shorter in 

 subsp. corrugata and hybrida than in subsp. betheli and gabbiana. 

 This i< probably not a character of much importance. The retractor 

 i- sometimes continued in the hum floor for some distance, as in 

 pi. 21, figs. 2 and 8. Only the free part is measured in the table. 

 In hybrida the penis is more twisted than in the other form-, at least 

 in the individual dissected. In all the form-, the distal part of the 

 penis collapses more or less flat. 0. h. betheli has four unequal ribs 

 in the lower part. 



5 



-M 




PR0CSBDIN08 OF Tin: \< \i>i:\n of [May, 



In 0. h. betheli and 0. h. COrrugata the central and inner lateral 

 teeth are unicuspid, bul there are narrow, cutting edges overhanging 

 from the central cusps, in place of side cusps. 



Oreohelix haydeni mixta n subap 



The shell is whitish with the early whorls clay color (the lasl whorl 

 sometimes having two narrow brown bands, the upper one ascending 

 the spire). Sculpture often equal, rather tine, deeply cut growth- 

 wrinkles, cut by spiral engraved lines, unequally developed, and 

 on the base often grouped so a- to leave spiral hands of long grannies 

 at intervals. Periphery angular or subangular in front, becoming 

 rounded on the rest of the last whorl. Embryonic shell having 

 irregular radial ripples, and the usual very hue spiral striation; on 

 the last whorl some coarse spiral-: peripheral carina strongly pinched 

 out. 



Height 18.3. diam. 12 mm.; umbilicus 3.(3 mm. 



The genitalia (pi. 21, fig. 3) resemble the organs of 0. haydeni in 

 proportions, the internally ribbed part of the penis being less than 

 half of the total length, but thicker than in haydeni, perhaps an 

 individual feature. The distal part ha- a somewhat trefoil section. 

 It differs from 0. cooperi by the longer penis relative to the diameter 

 of the shell, its length being about equal to the diameter in this form, 

 but decidedly less in all of the cooperi I have measured. The inter- 

 nally costate part is relatively shorter than in cooperi. 



Glenwood Springs, Colorado, on the bluff above the Hotel Colorado, 

 among oak leaves and debris on a sandstone and shale ledge above 

 station of 0. h. betheli. Type No. 94.058 A. N. S. P. (from No. 447 

 of Prof. Ellsworth Bethel. 1907). 



Another lot from Mr. Bethel, No. 94,796, consists of individuals 

 like the above lot, with others having two narrow spiral lines in the 

 usual cooperi positions. One of this lot (whether banded or plain 

 not known) was dissected, pi. 22, fig. 5. It agrees with the type in 

 proportions of the penis, but the penial retractor and the vagina are 

 -horter. Measurements of the genitalia in mm. follow. 



Mus. Length of 

 No. penis. 



Length of _ 



internally Length ol Length oi Length of Diameter 



ribbed pari epiphal- penial vagina. of shell, 



of penis. «»■ retractor. 



94,058 18 



94,796 17.5 



6 - 6.3 18 



6 8 



9 is:; 



ti about 18 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



This is the form which was at one time identified as 0. haydeni 

 gabbiana. It resembles 0. h. hybrida very closely, but the embryonic 

 Btage differs. The last embryonic whorl is not so convex in mixta, 



and its major spirals are more distind and the radial ripples are 

 more irregular. The carina is decidedly more prominent, and the 

 whorl as a whole is distinctly more depressed. It is likely that 

 ida and mixta art independent forms of the haydeni stock, or 

 perhaps separated relics of a pro-haydeni race. 



Some specimens have much the appearance of cooperi, but the 

 genitalia -how that there is qo real connection. There is large 

 individual variation in the height of the spire. 



The embryonic shell of 0. h. gabbiana has stronger spirals both 

 above and below near the end of the last embryonic whorl: its 

 periphery i- less pinched out. and it is less depressed. The adult 

 gabbiana i- usually more strongly angular or keeled. 



Oreohelix peripherica (Ancej PI. 20, fie*, i 



In genitalia this species does not differ materially from 0. strigosa 

 depressa (b) and 0. haydeni. The internally costate part of the penis 



i- It— than half of the total length, u-ually slightly over a third. 



The internally papillose distal portion usually collapses flat, bin one 



specimen from Station :;n and one from 36 their are weak indica- 

 tion- of a third ridue. The cylindric lower part of the penis has 

 5 or o longitudinal ribs within. 



Many specimens were opened, from various localities, and including 



nearly smooth, fine-ribbed and coarse-ribbed, white and banded 

 individual-. Except in size, there i- very little variation. 



Measurements, n< mm., ofiht genitalia of Oreohelix peripherica. 




[50 



n«M Ki:i)i.\«,> <>i i hi. \, \Di.\n OF 



[May, 



The central and inner lateral teeth bave n<» side cusps. There 

 are aboul i_ lateral teeth mi each side (Station 30). In an individual 

 from Station 36 there are 17. 13, 1, 13, 17 teeth. The transition from 



lateral to marginal teeth is very gradual in this species, so that the 

 exact number of lateral- i- somewhat uncertain. 



Oreohelix rugosa (Hemphill). PI 22, figs. 7. 7u 



The penis is about two-thirds the diameter of the shell, therefore 

 shorter than in any form of 0. s. depressa examined. It< internally 

 • ■(.state lower portion is relatively decidedly longer than in 0. s. 

 depressa, being over half the total length, agreeing with that of 

 0. cooperi. Inside the lower part has 5 or 6 fleshy ribs, smooth, as 

 usual, and the upper part has about the same number, but they are 

 lower, and both ribs and intervals are papillose. The duct of the 

 spermatheca is longer than in 0. s. depressa. Two individuals 

 measure: 



■,,,< , "aSs. - !.„„„,. i-g.- >--<" '^:r 



penis. partoi epipiaJlua re K£ r . v; ,;' im , 



duct. 



Diameter 

 of shell. 



16 

 16 



11 

 10 



6 

 6.2 



29 



24.5 



There are about 13 lateral teeth on each side, the inner 9 to 11 

 without >ide cusps. The transition to marginals is very gradual. 

 Oreohelix cooperi <w G. B). PI. 22, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Specimens from Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and New Mexico 

 have been dissected. All agree in having the internally costate 

 part of the penis longer than the papillose part, which at once differ- 

 entiate- the species from (). strigosa and 0. peripherica, in which the 

 costate part is much shorter than the papillose part. The penial 

 retractor is short, less than half the length of the penis in the smaller 

 specimens, but about two-thirds the length of penis in the large 

 forms from Yellowstone Park and New Mexico. The median part 

 of the penis is often somewhat, swollen, but in other examples this is 

 not noticeable. 



The penis has usually four main fleshy ridges in the lower part 

 as in specimens from Met 'amnion, Idaho i fig. 2 1, and the Black Range 

 of New Mexico, or there may be about 6 unequal ridges (fig. 1, 

 Yellowstone Park, No. 96,973 . one of them continuing upward- 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



351 



further than the others. In the Black Range form the ribbed portion 

 projects upwards into the cavity of the papillose part. 



Measurements in mm., of the <j> nitalia of Oreohelix cooperi. 



Locality 



• — — ■— 



il — SL 



Gleneyre, < !olo., 



7.1 mid ft. 82,185 8 



M'< ammon, Idaho, 



Station 1 12 



Eureka, Utah, Station 



6 

 < » cooperi maxima. 



Yellowstone Park, 



96,973 

 Black Range, N. M 



31 26 15.5 



6 4.6 



6.5 



8.7 

 9 



16-18 Fig. 3 



Fig. 2 



15-16 Fig. 4 



26 



Fig. l 



Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis Pils <v Fen PI 22 



The specimen figured is from shell. Wyoming (Pilsbry, Nautilus 

 XXVII, 1913, p. •">()). The penis is Bhort, it- lower two-thirds 

 swollen, upper third cylindric; internally there arc very low, Bhorl 

 folds bounded above by a low narrow transverse ridge, in the enlarged 

 part, the upper part having densely papillose walls. Fig. 6a repre- 

 sents the penis opened and pinned flat. The papilla? in the upper 

 portion are represented diagrammatically. The epiphallus is not 

 quite half as long as the penis. The base of the Bpermatheca dud 

 i- enlarged, as usual. The uterus contained 8 embryos in the indi- 

 vidual figured, the largest of 2\ whorl-. Length of penis 7 nun.. 

 of it- internally costate part 1.5; epiphallus 3.3 mm.; vagina 2 nun.. 

 Bpermatheca and dud L3 mm. 



The central and 5 or ti mner lateral teeth have no Bide cusps. The 

 seventh lateral has a well developed ectocone. 



The jaw i- -triate a- u-ual in the genUS. 



The animal is purplish black above and on the Bides, the sole 



cream colore. I. 



The embryonic Bhell has 2$ whorls, is convex above with an angular, 

 not acute, periphery. The firsi \\ whorl- are convex with irregular 

 growth stria?, some microscopic spirals then appearing. The last 



third of a whorl ha- about •" coar-e bul Very low -piral-. and the 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAD KM Y OF [May, 



cuticle, under a high power, is Been to be minutely crinkled, also 

 on the base. 



Oreohelix concentrata (Drill). PI. 22, fig. 9. 



The specimen figured is No. 94,343 A. X. S. P., from Miller's Peak, 

 Huachuca Mts., Arizona. The penis is swollen below the middle, 

 length 8 mm., length of internally costate part 1.5 mm.; of epiphallus 

 1 mm.; of vagina about 3.6 mm. Diameter of the shell 15.5 mm. 



This agrees substantially with the large form of the same district, 

 0. c. form huachucana (Pilsl.ry, Proc. A. N. 8. Phila. 1905, p. 275, 

 pi. 19, fig. 6). Both differ from 0. strigosa by the swollen penis and 

 relatively larger costate portion, which occupies more than half the 

 total length, as in 0. cooperi. My former reference of concentrate and 

 huachucanu to 0. strigosa as subspecies was clearly erroneous, and 

 due to the fact that I had not dissected enough Oreohelices to appre- 

 ciate their specific characters. In the general discussion of the 

 anatomy (Proc. A. X. S. Phila. 1905, p. 271), 0. strigosa and huachu- 

 cana were put in separate divisions. 



Oreohelix metcalfei Ckll. PI. 22, fig. 10. 



Collected in abundance by Mr. Ferriss and the writer, in the 

 Black Range, Xew Mexico. The penis resembles that of 0. concen- 

 trata and 0. pilsbryi, the median portion being much swollen, with 

 very thick walls, and broad, longitudinal ribs inside. The much 

 narrower, twisted upper portion has coarse papillae within, and one 

 longitudinal papillose rib. Length of penis 12 mm., of its internally 

 costate portion 7 mm.; of epiphallus 4 mm.; vagina 4 mm. Diameter 

 of the shell 19.5 mm. 



The radula has 12 lateral teeth on each side, like those of 0. s. 

 depressa except that the cusps are more slender. 



Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss. PI. 22, fig. 8. 



Genitalia about as in 0. metcalfei. The swollen part of the penis 

 has about 6 unequal ribs within; these project slightly into the cavity 

 of the papillose portion, which has one longitudinal rib. Length 

 of penis 12, of the ribbed portion 7 mm.; epiphallus 4 mm.; penial 

 retractor 4 mm.; vagina 4 mm.; spermatheca and duct 15 mm. 

 Diameter of the -hell 17.0 mm. 



Although the shell of 0. pilsbryi has an astonishing similarity to 

 that of 0. haydi ni, the genitalia show that there is no direct relation- 

 ship. 0. metcalfei is closely related to pilsbryi, being anatomically 

 indistinguishable. 




1916.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 353 



Catalogue of species, subspecies, and other named forms. 



Note. — An asterisk (*) following a specific or varietal name indi- 

 cates that a figure of the genitalia has been published by the writer, 

 and serves to -how what species and subspecies require examination. 

 ■ral other subspecies of the Arizonian species have been dis- 

 ! but n<>t figured. 



0. edahoensis Newc). Coeur d'Alene district, Idaho. 

 O.cooPEHi W.G.B.).* Black Hills, S.Dakota; (Rocky Mountains , 

 Form- trifasciata Ckll., Mesa Co., Colo.; confiuens Ckll., Gar- 

 field and Mesa Cos., Colo.: elevata Ckll., Helta Co., Colo.; 

 typica Ckll., Colo.; minor Ckll., Rouetl Co., Colo.; iowenais 

 Pils., Loess of Iowa: maxima Pils.,* Yellowstone Park. 

 0. c. stantoni Dall. Assiniboia. 



I ». c. globosula ( 'kll. Summit ( Jo., Colo. (Syn. globulosa Pil- 

 < ). c. berryi Pils. Snowy Mt>., Fergus Co., .Mont. 

 0. RUG08A Hemph. .* Near Brigham City, Utah. 



ERiPHEHiCA I Ancey).* Bear River region, Northern Utah. (Syn., 



muUicostata, Hemph.) 

 Forms binneyi, castanea, albofasciata, gouldi Hemph. 

 » >. p. uewcombi (Hemph.). Near Ogden, Utah. 

 <).p. wasatchensis Hemph.). Near Ogden, Utah. 

 < ). i'v<,m.k\ Pils. Near Shell, Wyoming. 

 0. STRiGOSA Gld.). " Interior of Oregon. " 



< ). s. parma (Hemph.). Spokane Falls, Washington. 



< >. s. jugalis (Hemph.). Salmon River, Idaho. 

 0. s. intersum (Hemph.). Salmon [liver, Idaho. 



i >. g. limitaris Dawson). Waterton Lake, Montana-Alberta 



boundary. 

 0. 8. alpina Elrod. Mission Range, Montana. (Syn.: montana 



Elrod.) 

 1 '. 9. subcarinata (Hemph.). Rathdrum, Idaho. 



Forms lactea, tricolor and picta Hemph. Same colony. 

 0. s. depressa Ckll.).* Near Durango, Colo.; (Southern Idaho 

 to northern Arizona, Colo., New Mexico 

 Form major < 'kll. Mesa ( o., ( !olo. 

 I 'kll.. < lolorado. 

 cornea Hemph.* Near Salt Lake City, Utah. 

 " albida Hemph. Near Logan, l tab. ? Syn., PatiUa 

 Urigosa var. alba < 'kll.. pr< 

 tooelensis Hend. and Dan.* Near Tooele, Utah. 

 0. 9. fragilis (Hemph.).* Near Franklin, Idaho. 

 9. buttoni (Hemph.).* Box Elder <<>.. Utah; also near 

 len. 



< >. b. magnicornu Pils. Big Horn Mts., Wyoming. 



0. Henderson] Pii- ' Little Thompson (nek. 1<> mil-- N W. of 

 Longmonl . ' !olo. 

 li. dakani Hend. New Castle, Colo. ? - rugosa Hemph.). 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE At \i»i \n of [May, 



0. HATDBNi (Gabb.), Weber canyon, Utah. 



i ). h. oquirrhensis I Hemph.). ( kjuirrh Mountains. Utah, 

 0. h. gabbiana (Hemph.).* Oquiirh Mountains. Utah. 

 0. li. utahensis (Hemph.). Oquirrh Mountains. Utah. 

 0. h. corrugata Bend, and Dan.* Small, nearly isolated moun- 

 tain, southeast of Webster, Utah. 

 0. h. hybrids i Hemph.).* Near Lo»an, I * t ah. 

 O. h. betheli Pils. and Ckll.* Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 

 Form atia Pils. and Ckll. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 

 0. h. mixta Pils.* Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 

 0. HKMiMiiLLi (Newc). White Pine mining district, Nevada. 



(). h. eurekensis Mend, and Dan. Eureka. Utah. 

 0. tenuistriata Hend. and Dan. Between McCammon and Hot 



Lava Springs, Idaho. 

 0. CARINIFERA Pils. ( iarrison. Montana. 

 0. BRTTNER] (Ancey). Montana. (Not seen by the author, and 



unknown in American collections.) 

 0. f.lrodi Pils.* MacDonaid Lake. Mission Range, Montana. 

 I ». vavapai Pils.* Yavapai Co.. Arizona, etc. 



0. y. neomexicana Pils.* San Miguel Co.. New Mexico. 



0. y. compactula Ckll. Pecos canyon, New Mexico. 



0. y. extremitatis Pils. and Ferr.* Grand Canyon, Ariz.; also 



northern Wyoming. 

 < ». y. angelica Pils. and Ferr. Grand Canyon, Arizona. 

 0. y. profundorum Pils. and Ferr. Grand Canyon. Arizona. 

 O. y. maria? Bartsch. Squaw Creek, near mouth Gallatin 

 ( 'anvon, Montana. 

 O. concenthata (Dall).* Huachuca Range, Arizona. 



Form huachucana Pils.* Huachuca Range, Arizona. 

 O. metcalfei Ckll.* Black Range, New Mexico. 

 O. pilsbryi Ferriss.* Mineral Creek, Chloride, Sierra Co., New 



Mexico. 

 O. barb ata Pils.* Chiricahua Range, Arizona; also Mogollon 

 Range, N. M. 

 O. b. minima Pils. and Ferr. Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. socorroensis Pils. Socorro Co., New Mexico. 



Subgenus Radiocentrum Pils. 

 0. avalonensis Hemph. Catalina Island, California. 

 O. chiricahuana Pils.* Cave Creek Canyon, near the cave, 

 Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. percarinata Pils. and Ferr. Big Emigrant Canyon, and 



Paradise Canyon, Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. obsoleta Pils. and Ferr. White Tail Canyon, Chiricahua 

 Range, Arizona. 

 O. clappi Ferriss.* Cave Creek, etc., Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. emigrans Pils. and Ferr. Big Emigrant Canyon, Chiri- 



cahuas. 

 0. c. cataracta Pils. and Ferr. Falls of Cave Creek, Chiri- 

 cahuas. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



( ). FERRissi Pils.* Near mouth of Sheridan Canyon, Big Hachet 

 Mountains. New Mexico. 



0. f. morticina Pils. Daniel- Peak, Big Hachtl Mi-.. New Mexico. 

 o. hachetana Pils.* Summit of Big Hachet Mi.. New Mexico. 



0. h. cadaver Pils. Daniels Peak. Big Hachel Mts., N. M. 



Notes on the preceding list. 



In presenting a new catalogue of a genus wherein specific values 

 have been BO variously estimated, a brief consideration of the growth 

 and changes of opinion on the subject may be in order. In their 

 work of I860. Binney and Bland recognized Helix strigosa, H. cooperi 

 and //. ifhifnunsis as species, no others heing then known. In 1878 

 Terrestrial Mollusks, Vol. 5) Mr. Binney added //. haydeni and 

 H. kemphilli, and reduced cooperi to a variety of strigosa. In his 

 latest general work, Manual of American Land Shell-. 1885, Mr. 

 Binney reduced haydeni to the rank of a variety of strigosa. After 

 this, the remarkable series from Idaho and Utah collected by Henry 

 Hemphill caused Binney to view the entire series of known forms 

 a- varieties of strigosa. This view was generally accepted, as Mr. 

 Binney was conceded to be the leading authority of hi> time on 

 American land snails. Mr. Hemphill went further than Binney, 

 ranking the whole group as varieties of the Eastern //. aUernata Say. 



It may be noted here that a relatively small number of species, 

 from only a part of the area of the genus, were known to Binney 

 and Hemphill. The last 1") species of the list given above wen- 

 unknown at thai time. This include- the whole southern group of 

 -peri-- having swollen penes and the Radiocentrum group (with one 

 ption . besides various lately discovered northern forms of verj 

 distinct appearance. In dealing with the species and other forms de- 

 scribed prior to 1890 we return to Binney's earlier opinion, and 

 regard trigosa, cooperi, idahoensis, haydeni and hemphiUi as Bpecies. 

 0. peripherica and 0. hendersoni, while near strigosa, seem to be 

 sufficiently detached to be considered Bpecies. 0. rugosa, though 

 near cooperi, \~ for the timi given specific rank. Both of these 

 differ specifically from strigosa by the genitalia. 



Many of the subspecies now recognized were already defined by 

 Binney and Hemphill as varieties of strigosa. If the criterion of 

 intergradation with other form- were rigorously applied to them. 

 eral would be judged species; yet in actual practice, and as a 

 temporary expedient until the territory is more fully explore. 1. 

 we take the degree of differentiation into the account. In dealing 

 with the form- of single colonies, scattered over a great extent of 




356 PROCEEDINGS "I in I : \< \dkmv OF [May, 



unexplored country, our presenl conclusions musl be mere approxi- 

 mations to the facts, which future exploration may be expected to 

 bring <>ut. In treating of forms which arc in doubl it seems to me 

 better to attach them as subspecies to a known species, rather than 

 to increase the number of ill-defined species. Oreohelices sometimes 

 have strongly marked conchological features, bu1 when this is no1 

 the case, species should not be established in my opinion, without 

 anatomical examination. It seems likely that some forms now 

 considered subspecies of 0. strigosa will he elevated to specific rank 

 when their areas arc well explored, and their -oft anatomy worked out . 



The "forms" of the list above are of unequal value, hut all are 

 inserted in order that all names proposed may appear in the list. 

 Some of them are mere synonyms; some are color or size form-, 

 from heterogeneous colonies, in which several mutations are per- 

 petuated in hybrid populations, 6 such a- I have described in Achati- 

 nella.* Others are races probably deserving recognition in nomen- 

 clature. Much more study must be put on Oreohelix before we can 

 confidently assign all the forms to their approximately proper rank. 



0. coo/h ri (W. G. B.). Xo serious study of the races and forms 

 of this wide-spread species has recently been made. Many years 

 ago Professor Cockerell proposed several varietal names, but in the 

 absence of figures, the application of some of them, as well as their 

 status, has been uncertain. A recent communication from Professor 

 Cockerell quoted below, elucidates them so far as possible in the 

 present condition of the subject. 



fpica = 0. coojh ri s. sir. 



2 confluens. (3) trifasdata. Color (band) variations of cooperi, common and 

 well known to us lure. Not in any sense special races. Type specimen of 

 confluens i- in Q. S. X. M. 



1 elevata. A form of cooperi with more elevated spire. Merely an extreme 

 •h'' ordinary variation of the species; not a rare. 



5 minor. The name was originally given in Nautilus May, 1889, p. 8, ami 

 referred to a .-mall form cite.) by Hemphill. Later 1 found what I < onsidered 

 to he the same in Colorado* apparently a distinct race. Henderson has used 

 the name for a race in recent years. Now we are both uncertain whether 

 the name should he applied in this sense. It is a fuel that in certain localities 

 the shells are small and constitute a ''minor" race, hut whether all the 

 various colonic- of this type have any connection with one another may he 

 questioned. The original intention was to follow the European custom, 

 and call all the shells helow a certain size minor, not regarding the variety 



;:ec i, r subspecies in any sense. Henderson and I, after consultation, 



• that the status of minor must he considered subject to revision. 



da. Tin- we have, and can recognize it as a peculiar variation which 

 occurs in 'he Glenwood Springs district. It occur- in small numbers on the 

 south Bide of the river, along with the other form-. It may I e a hybrid of 



the valuable observations of Daniel-. Nautilus XXV, 1911, p is. 

 ' Manual of Conchology, Vol. XXII. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



some Bort. It does not Beem to 1"* a distinct race or subspecies, but it 1- 

 not found in other part- of th< far as we know. The type locality is 



some distance from the Glenwood Springs locality, bul a with range does 

 not appear probable. We can affirm, I think, thai thie is no' a mere 

 variation of the ordinary type, such as but whether il - i 



distincl race may well be doubted. Further research is Deeded. 

 '. Thia you know well. 

 - major. Simply a large depre&sa; ti" - 



•a. Sinistral, examples. Brit. Naturalist. 

 Thus, only two Dames are at all doubtful, and here the doubt . illy 



one as to the facts of nature rather than of nomenclature. Theo l> A 

 Cockerell. 



0. cooperi form maxima \< a shell with about the typical shape of 

 cooperi, but of large size, the typo measuring, alt. 17.<i. diam. 2b mm., 

 umbilicu< 5 mm., whorls .">', more rounded than in 0. strigosa depressa. 

 There i? a band at. another above the periphery, and below the 

 suture a wider, paler one interrupted into macula. Genitalia, 

 pi. 22. 6g. 1 . normal for coojn ri. 



The type is from Yellowstone National Park 1<> miles southwest 

 of Jardine, Montana, No. 96,973 A X. S. P.. collected by E. M. 

 Kindle. Other specimens are from Grade Canyou Dear Cokeville, 

 [Jinta < o.. Wyoming, collected l>y Mr. .J. A. ( i. Rchn. One of t h« -■ 

 measures alt. 17.7. diam. 2b mm. In addition to the markings 

 described above, it ha- a few faint brown circular lino- on the I 



mii iowi ri8i8 Pils. i- quite -'mall, heighl 7.7. diam. 11.1. umbilicus 

 2.6 mm., with 1] whorls. There is a reddish band jusl under the 

 periphery, and the initial whorl is very convex and smooth. P is 

 from the loess, type-locality, Iowa City, Iowa. It probably stands 

 close to stantoni, which -till exists in an environment perhaps not 

 very unlike the loess climate of Iowa. 



0. p. wasatchei is so peculiarly modified that one i- strongly 

 inclined to give it specific rank. The elevated spire, the compactly 



coiled whorl- and the peripheral carina all differentiate it from 



0. i» ri '/'/" '"". Yet 0. /'. newcombu stands almost intermediate 

 betwi and peripheHca. P does uot differ from the 



coarsest example- ,,\ the latter in form or ribbing, but it has a delicate 

 peripheral keel which continues as far, usually, as the last whorl. 

 when a has qo keel in the later neanic and the adult 



Possibly both newcombi and wasatchensis may eventually 

 be ranked a- species; but until further collection- can be made. 

 I leave them associated with 0. .. CO, with the note that at 



present we do no' have actual evidence of intergradation. 



In this connection we may allude to the status of 0. pygmcea, 

 which may turn out to be a subspecies of 0. peripher here 



d, evidence of intergradation is wanth 




PBOCHEDING8 ol mi. LI \i»K.\n OP |Mav, 



EXPLANATION OF PLATB8 XIX, XX. XXI. XXII. 



\"ih The •• ~t.it ii mi-" referred to are those of Messrs Henderson and Daniels 

 1 ixpeditioD of L915. 



Plats XIX. -Fig, l.—Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll. Manitou Canyon, 

 Colorado Springs, < Solo 

 Fig. 2.— O. s. depressa (Ckll. i Harkness Canyon, oear McCammon, Idaho, 



Station 2. 



Fig. :■;. — 0. 8. depressa form cornea (Hemph.). Dry Canyon, near Sail Lake 



City, Utah, Station 43. 

 Fig. I. — 0. s. depressa (Ckll.). First gulch soutb of Logan Canyon, • 



I ngan. I'tah. Station 41. 



Fig. 5. — 0. 8. fragilis (Hemph.). About a mile west of Franklin, Ldaho, 



Station :{s. Penis only figured. 

 Fig. 6. — 0. s. depressa (Ckll.). About a mile up Emigration Canyon. 

 southeast of Sail Lake City, Utah, Station 46. 



Fig. 7. — O. s. depressa (Ckll.). Ogden Canyon, Utah, Station 22. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey). Ravine in east Muff of 

 Bear River, just below Wheelon, Utah. Station 33, banded form, la, 

 penis of same, pulled straight, with epiphallus. 



Fig. 2. — (). peripherica (Anc). Same station, white form. 



Fig. 3. — 0. peripherica (Anc). Ea.-t bank of Bear River below Cache 



Junction, Utah, Station 29. 3a, penis of same, opened to show internal 



structure. 

 Fig. 4. — 0. peripherica (Anc). Gulch opening into North Ogden Canyon, 



ion 20. A relatively smooth specimen. 

 Fig. 5. — 0. peripherica (Anc). Mountain northeast of Xewton, Utah, 



Station 36. Smooth form of the species. 

 Fig. 6. — 0. peripherica (Anc). East bank of Bear River, below Cache 



Junction, Utah, Station 30. 

 Fig. 7. — Oreohelix hendersoni Pils., one of the original lot. 

 Fig. S. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Rock Canyon, east of Provo, 



Utah, Station 44. 



Plate XXI. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix haydeni gabbiana (Hemph.). Oquirrh Mts., 



Station 15. 

 lit:. 2. — Oreohelix haydeni betheli Pils. and Ckll. Glenwood Springs, Colo- 

 rado. Xo. 94,059 A. X. S. P. 

 Fig. 3. — 0. haydeni mixta Pils. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. Xo. 94,058 



A X. S. P. 

 Fig. 4. — Oreohelix haydeni corrugata Hend. and Dan. Small mountain 



southeast of Webster, Utah, Station 40. 

 Fig. 5. — Oreohelix s. depressa, form tooelensis Hend. and Dan. About G miles 



northeast of Tooele, Utah, Station 10. 

 Fig, (>. — Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.). Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, 



Ft ah, Station 16. 

 Fie. 7. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Oquirrh Mountains, Utah, 



31 'ion 13. 

 Fifj. 8. — Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.). Gulch south of Logan 



Canyon, Station 42. 



Plate XXII. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.), form maxima Pils. Yellow- 

 stone National Park. No. 96,973 A. X. 8. P. 



Fig. 2. — 0. rooprri <\V. G. B.). McCammon, Idaho, Station 1. 



Fig. ■',—<>. coopt ri (W. G. B. . Gleneyre, Colorado. No. 82,185 A. N. S. P. 



Fit;. 4. — 0. cooperi (W. G. B.). Eureka, Utah, Station 6. 



Fit:. 5. — 0. haydeni mixta Pils. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. No. 94,796 

 A N. S. P. 



Fijf. 6. — Oreohelix yavapai extremitalis Pils. and Ferr. Shell, Wyoming. 

 6a, penis of same, opened, with the epiphallus. 




1916.] NATURAL 8< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Fig. 7. — Oreohelix rugoaa (Hemph.). Near Clarkston, Utah, Station 3. 



7a, penis of same, pulled straight. 

 Fig. v — Oreohelix pi&bryi Ferriss. Type-specimen. 

 Fie. 9. — Oreohelix concentrate (Dall). Huachuca Mts.. Arizona. No. 94.343 



A X. S. P. 

 Fig. 10.— Oreohelix metcalfei Ckll. Black Range, New Mexico, Pilsbry 



and Ferriss, Station !■">. 1915. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE H \1»KMY OF [ M :i\ , 



SOME BEES FROM AUSTRALIA. TASMANIA. AND THE NEW HEBRIDES. 

 BY T. I). A. COCKERELL. 



In a paper published in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913 



pp. 28 ll . I gave a summary of the then known bee-fauna of 



Australia. During the lasl two years additional material lias come 



to hand, and the present paper represents the completion of the 



later work, so far as the material now available permits. 



Perhaps the most interesting problem now before as in connection 

 with the new collections is that of the radical difference between the 

 bee-fauna? of Tasmania and New Zealand. It becomes increasingly 

 evident that while Tasmania is very poor in genera as compared 

 with the Australian mainland, it i- extremely rich in species in 

 comparison with New Zealand. There can be no doubt that careful 

 collecting in New Zealand will yield a number of additional species, 

 but it is impossible to believe that it will at all approach Tasmania 

 in the extent of its bee-fauna. The Tasmanian bees arc very close to 

 those of Australia, and many are even identical, showing clearly the 

 derivation of the fauna. The New Zealand fauna is also wholly 

 of Australian type, l>ut extremely poor in genera and species. Isola- 

 tion has prevented the accession of species from across the water, 

 but one would expect a much greater development of endemic forms, 

 something more or less parallel with the condition in the Hawaiian 

 I -lands. The New Zealand species are all endemic; Prosopi* vicina 

 Sichel was said to occur in Tasmania and New Zealand, but it was 

 almost certainly based on a mixture, and the name is to lie restricted 

 to the Xew Zealand specie.-. "Andrena" infima Erichs., from 

 Tasmania, is probably, hut not certainly, Halictus lanarius Smith. 

 Mr. Meade-Waldo of the British Museum agrees with me that 

 ParacoUetes providus Sm. is P. chalybeatus Erichs. The specie< which 

 Smith called chalybeatus Mr. Meade-Waldo thinks should be united 

 with P. obscurus Sm. With these amendments the lists for Tasmania 

 and Xew Zealand stand a- follow-. The Tasmanian species also found 

 on the Australian mainland are marked with an asterisk. 



Tasmania. I 7'.t species. I 



alcyonea Erichs.* Prosopis perhumilis ('klh* 



honesta Sm. xanthosphcera Ckll. (King I. 



hobartiana Ckll. accipitris < 'kll. 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



3G1 



Pachyprosopis flavicauda Ckll. * 

 Euryglossa walkeriana Ckll. 



nigroaerulea Ckll.* 



fastiatella Ckll.* 



la d* si ma Ckll. 



nubilipt nnis ( 'kll. 

 Callomelitta picta Sm. ' 



UtOeri Ckll. 

 Binghamiflla antipodes insularis 



Ckll. 

 Paracolletes chalybeatus Erichs." 



obscurus Sm. 



viridicinctus ( 'kll. 



obscuript nnis Ckll. 



hobart' nsis Ckll. 



carinatus Sin.* 



melbourru nsis < 'kll.* 



feaiCkll. 



marginatus Sm.* 



hliuin .v/(//m //>/>■ ( 'kll. 



Bvbviridis ( 'kll. 

 X um in tubman ns ( 'kll. 

 Halictu8 orbatu8 Sm.* 



cognatus Sm. 



Iimatu8 Sm. 



globo8U8 Sm. 



/•« proa ///''///.-• Sm. ' 



furneavxi ( 'kll. 



'/,/,;//,, Ckll. 



/><;*>•/ < 'kll. 

 bandini ( 'kll. 

 //<-//■* /// ( 'kll. 



'/( nussiis ( 'kll. 

 mutatis ( 'kll.* 



"7'/n ( 'kll.* 

 politus expulsut ( 'kll. 

 macrops < 'kll. 



Ni.u Zealand. 



■ ,■<<'.< agilis Sm. 



/> /,/, igata Sm. 

 capitoiQ Sm. 



maoriana ( 'kll. 



</■'</ Mil. 



"////< roni < 'kll. 



I iin. 

 3ich. 



■•nltnni ( 'kll. 



kll. 



H<il ictus confuseUus ( 'kll. 

 familiaris Erichs. 

 warburtoni ( 'kll. 

 mitcheUi Ckll. 

 WAv/ Ckll. 

 (unarms Sin." 



hcematopus ( 'kll. 

 /////(/■/ ckll. 



clognathus ( 'kll.* 

 opacicoUis ( 'kll.* 

 ////■» ifrons ckll. 



ill's, lusus ( 'kll. 

 isth/nalis ( 'kll. 



subinclinans ( 'kll. 



pulriti dllS Ckll. 



tasmania < 'kll. 

 Parasphecodea Hlachus Sm. 

 lithusca Sm. 

 talchius Si ii. 

 8tuchila Sm. 



nit ich us Sm. 

 tuliirhis Sm. 



/•( (7 .v.VI/.v ( 'kll. 



//< rnstus ( 'kll. 

 rhodopU nis ( 'kll. 

 rufotegularis ( 'kll. 



C< rrinihs ( 'kll. 

 Iiitissiritus ( 'kll. 

 i Salt ns ( 'kll. 



u>< llingtoni ( 'kll. 

 tonu ri ( 'kll. 

 Megachih U ucopyga Sm. 

 chrysopyga Sm. " 

 ordinaria Sm. 



tnsmiiiiiiii ( 'kll. 



Exoru lira bicolcr Sm. " 



hamulata < 'kll.* 



18 -|" i ies. 

 ParacolL U s imitatus Sm. 



/'/ Mil. 



///« tallicus Sm. 



purpUTi a- Mm. 

 Mil. 



miinri um < 'kll. 



Halutiis huttoni < Jam. 



sinitfn i I ). T. 

 < fnm ilm r Mn 

 Sm. 




362 PROCEEDINGS 01 Mil M \l>i\n 01 [May, 



Pachyprosopis saturnina * ' t^ 1 1 



Perth, Australia, Feb. 1 7. mil. R. E Turner; Brit. Museum). 

 The markings vary; the yellow at anterior corners of mesothorax 

 may be extended, curving round t<> make two bands on anterior 

 part of disc; then' may be a large yellow extension of lateral face- 

 mark- mesad of lower end of facial fovea?; the scutellum in the Perth 

 form is practically all yellow. 



Euryglossina hypochroma >p a. 



9. Length about o.7.~> mm.; robust, heal and thorax shining 

 black; abdomen dark, faintly purplish, above, hut clear reddish- 

 yellow below; legs clear yellowish-ferruginous, the anterior femora 

 sometimes mainly black on outer side; mandibles chestnut red, 

 dark at tip; a large yellowish spot on cheeks just above base of 

 mandibles; clypeus and supraclypeal hand fulvotestaceous (perhaps 

 yellower in life); a very slender fulvous line running up inner orhits 

 a- far as facial fovea-: scape with a light stripe; flagellum thick, clear 

 fulvous beneath; head large, suhquadrate, front convex, shining; 

 tubercles clear yellow; mesothorax shining, with extremely minute 

 and sparse punctures, the disc microscopically cancellate; tegulae 

 testaceous; wings hyaline, nervures and the large stigma sepia; b. n. 

 strongly arched; first r. n. joining first s. m.; second s. m. suh- 

 quadrate; extreme apex of abdomen ferruginous. 



Hub.— Perth, W. Australia, Feb. 1-7, 1914 (/?. E. Turner; Brit. 

 Museum.) 2 9 Allied to E. perpusilla (Cklh), but larger and more 

 robust, with fulvous clypeus, etc. It resembles Pachyprosopis 

 atromicans Cklh, hut is easily separated by the color of the femora, 

 much smaller second s. m., etc. 



Euryglossina flaviventris Bp n 



Type). Length about 3.75 mm.; head and thorax hlack; 

 abdomen hlack with a faint purplish tint above, the venter clear 

 yellow, the extreme lateral margins and the apex rather broadly 

 the light color more extensive than in E. hypochroma) also yellow: 

 leu- bright yellow, anterior femora sometimes marked with hlack. 

 hind tibiae and tarsi dark brown on outer side; mandibles fulvous; 

 a -mail fulvous -pot on cheeks next to base of mandibles; linear 

 Lateral face-mark- as in E. hypochroma; upper half of clypeus. and a 

 supraclypeal band yellow; antenna' fulvous beneath; front shining; 

 mesothorax microscopically tessellate; tubercles yellow. 



cf. Clypeus, supraclypeal area and comparatively broad lateral 

 -marks yellow, the pattern essentially as in E. perpusilla; tin- 

 lateral face-marks have a small projection opposite antennae. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Hab- Mt. Yule, Healesville, Victoria, Feb. 20, L915, on Eucalyptus 



calophylla rosea, :; .1 ■? . /,'. Kelly; Brit. Museum.) Very cl 

 tn E. hypochroma, from which the female is known by the dark lower 

 part of clypeus and the more broadly light apex of abdomen. Also 

 very close to E. perpusilla CklL, l>ut larger, with more lighl color on 

 abdomen. It may be better regarded as a subspecies of E. />< rpusilla, 

 but it appears quite distind . 



Euryglosiina perpusilla var. nana u. v. 



9. Length hardly 3 nun.; abdomen wholly dark above, yellow- 

 beneath: clypeus and supraclypea] area wholly Mark (as in E. 

 erelli Perkins); linear lateral face-marks poorly developed or 

 absent ; stigma dilute sepia. 



Hab- Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Feb. 9 28, L914, 2 ■: also 

 oneMarch 1 11. 1914,850ft. {R. E. Turner; Brit. Museum). Com- 

 pared with typical E. pt rpusiUa, this looks distind : but the Queens- 

 land perpusilla are bo variable that it seems impossible to distinguish 

 more than a variety. Some Mackay females lack the supraclypea] 



hand. 



Bingbamiella antipodes insularis CklL). 



Mr. Littler has taken both sexes of Binghamiella at George Town, 

 Tasmania, March, L915. The male- agree with my l'>. insularis; 

 the female- are what ha> passed as B. antipodes from Tasmania, but 

 have the same essential distinctive characters as the male-. There 

 i- sufficienl reason for regarding the Tasmanian bee as a subspecies, 

 but hardly a species. 



Enrygloisa depressa sparsa tubap n. 



9. Differs from E. depressa 8m. by the very sparsely though 

 very strongly punctured scutellum, and the anterior middle of meso- 

 thorax with scattered irregular punctures, instead of very numerous 

 fine ones; also by having the Bagellum ferruginous beneath, though 

 tin- i- variable, and sometimi obscure. It i- readily known 



from /•. cea Ckll. by the darker, brown-stained wings, facial 



quadrangle shorter, etc. The mesothorax and scutellum are much 

 more sparsely punctured than in E. nigroccerulea ( kll. 



Hab. Mt. Yul.-. Healesville, Victoria I i I 20, L915, on Eucalyptus 

 calophylla rosea /.'. Kelly; Brit. Museum). ■'> . . Smith's 

 description is insufficient to indicate which is the typical race of 

 / ■ ,< ■ lnit I have taken :i- such the form which appear- to be 

 common in Victoria, ' 




364 PROCEEDINGS 01 rm: LCADEMT OF [May, 



Prosopis extensa ip » 



9. Length about 1 nun.: slender, with long metathoraa and 

 subclavate abdomen, looking like some small Pemphredonid wasp; 

 black, the front with an extremely obscure greenish tint; the thorax 

 dull, with the prothorax, pleura and posterior tare of metathorax 

 shining; abdomen shining; head not far from round in fronl view; 

 mandibles, labrum, linear lateral face marks ending about level of 

 antenna', lower margin and greater part of disc of clypeus yellowish- 

 ferruginous, the pale color on clypeus ending sufifusedly above; 

 Labial palpi with the >econd joint remarkably short and -tout, almost 

 globose, the third and fourth cylindrical, the third twice as wide as 

 the fourth: maxillary palpi with the basal part -tout, the second 

 joint longest, the sixth tapering at end: antenna' rather slender; 

 scape yellow in front, flagellum pale ferruginous beneath; fronl 

 minutely punctured; vertex elevated, rounded; narrow (ridge-like) 

 upper border of prothorax and the tubercles white: mesothorax 

 densely sculptured with minute punctures and striae; area of meta- 

 thorax very large and long, minutely cancellate; legs black, the 

 anterior tibia' pale ferruginous in front; teguke piceous; wings 

 hyaline, nervures and the large stigma piceous; b. n. falling far 

 -hurt of t. m.: first r. n. reaching first s. m. a considerable distance 

 from its apex; second s. m. very small, quadrate; abdomen with 

 microscopic transverse lineolation. 



Hab.- — Mt. Yule, Healesville, Victoria, on Eucalyptus calophylla 

 rosea. Feb. 20, ISU5 /.'. Kelly; Brit. Museum). A very peculiar 

 little insect, with Euryglossina venation. It is perhaps most like 

 I' . scintilliformis ( 'klh, from which it is known at once by the venation. 

 It i- by no mean- a typical Prosopis. 



Prosopis aralis sp. d. 



^ . Like I'. pirhiDiiilis (which was collected on the same plant 

 at same time and place), but the white face-marks are extended, the 

 broad clypeal band having below ion apical margin of clypeus) ;i 

 transverse narrowband extending on each side at right angle.-, while 

 the supraclypeal area has a broadly triangular light mark, the 

 clypeal marking thus resembling an altar with pedestal at base, the 

 offering represented by the supraclypeal mark; hind tibia- with more 

 than basal third pale; all the basitarsi cream-color. The basal 

 nervure nearly reaches t. m. 



Hab. — Mt. Yule, Healesville. Victoria, on Eucalyptus calophylla 

 rosea. Feb. 20, 1915 (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum) 2 9. Possibly a 

 variety of P. perhumili8, but apparently distinct. In the coloration 

 of the l*u- it resembles P. accipitris (klh, from Tasmania. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIEN< E8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Prosopis scintilliformis Ckll. 



9. Length about L75 mm.; black, similar to P. perhumilis and 

 oralis, but more slender: mandibles white, rufous at end; narrow 

 my-white bands along anterior orbits to level of antennae; clypeus 

 and supraclypeal area entirely Mack: first r. n. meeting first t. c; 

 marked as in oralis. Scape with a light stripe in front : flagellum 

 pale fulvous beneath; tubercles and transverse mark- on prothorax 

 cream-color. 



o". Length about 1 mm.; slender like the = : face below antennae 

 (including transverse supraclypeal mark), and lateral marks with 

 pointed extensions upward at sides, all very pale ochreous (perhaps 

 yellower in life). The face-pattern is like that of the larger and 

 more robust P. "perhumilis, except that the lateral mark- have their 

 inner side longer, extending to beyond the middle of the supraclypeal 

 mark. Both have the fourth antenna! joint extremely short. 



Hob. Mt. Yule. Healesville, on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea, 

 Feb.20, 1915 R. Kelly; Brit. Museum). 3 .1 \ The species 

 was described I 1913 ! from a single female collected at < Iroydon. The 

 male i- very distinct from r. minuscula Ckll. 



Prosopis trimerops sp a 



Length about or hardly \ mm.; another species of the type 



■ /'. perhumilis, but very minute, robust; face-marks rufofulvous 



probably yellower in life), consisting of a broad clypeal band, broad 



lower margin of clypeus (leaving long-cuneiform black areas .-it 



sides of clypeus), narrow lateral face-marks which end acutely on 



orbital margin a little above level of antenna?, and large supracl} peal 



mark, which is broad below, more narrowed above, and end- in a 



d truncation between the antennae; the supraclypeal area is 



ex; scape with a liuht -tripe; flagellum fulvous beneath; thorax 



robust, mesothorax finely lineolate and punctured; upper- border ol 



thorax without pale marks, and tubercles with only a very narrow 



yellow edge; legs marked nearly as in /'. oralis, bul hind basitarsi 



with only the basal hah' pale; b. n. almosl meeting t. m.; second 



b. m. broad, receiving firsl r. n. near its base. 



Hob. Yallingup, 8. W. Australia, Nov., 1913, 2 l: /.'. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum. 



Prosopis vittatifrons I 



P( rth, Australia, Feb. 1 7. 191 I R I- I Brit. Museum . 



Paracolletes halictiformis 



9. Length about 8 mm., rather robust, with short wings; black, ' 

 with mostly white pubescence; head broad; mandibles red, Mark 




PBO< BEDINQS OF THE \< \i>i:\iv of [May, 



at base and apex; clypeua closely and very Btrongly punctured, bu1 

 Bhining between the punctures; sides <>t" face and cheeks with con- 

 spicuous pure white hair; front extremely densely punctured, the 

 punctures strong, but much smaller than those on clypeus; area 

 behind ocelli with erect fuscous hair; flagellum short, ferruginous 

 beneath apically; mesothorax and scutellum with very dense distincl 

 punctures; longitudinal median groove of mesothorax distinct; 

 mesothorax and scutellum with evident pale hair around the edges, 

 hut otherwise only with thin short brownish hair, not hiding the 

 surface; postscutellum with a tubercle, from which arises a large 

 spreading tuft of hair, partly brownish and partly whitish; area of 

 metathorax rugulose basally, margin finely beaded; posterior face of 

 metathorax with a large deep pit; legs black, the hind tibiae red, 

 the middle and hind basitarsi very broad; hind tibial scopa large, 

 sordid white, suffused with brown behind; tegulse rufotestaceous; 

 wings dusky; stigma small, dark reddish, nervures fuscous; b. n. 

 just reaching t. m.: second s. in. receiving first r. n. slightly before 

 middle: third s. m. receiving second r. n. nearly as far from end as 

 first r. n. is from first t. c; abdomen thick, very finely punctured; 

 hind margins of segments brownish; segments 2-4 with conspicuous 

 white marginal hair-bands, interrupted or very thin in middle of 2; 

 hair at apex dark fuscous. 



Hob— Yallingup, 8. W. Australia, Dec. 1 to Jan. 23, 1913-14. 

 (R. E. Turner; Brit. Museum.) A peculiar little species, resembling 

 Halictu8. It may best be compared with P. sigillatus Ckll., but it is 

 smaller than that, with much more closely punctured mesothorax. 

 It may also be compared with the much larger P. perfasciatus Ckll. 



Halictus urbanus Smith. 



Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Mch. 14-Apl. 14, 1914 (It. E. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum). 1 9. This species, as I have recognized it, varies 

 considerably in size and the color of the legs; it may be composite. 

 The Kalamunda specimen is small, with red tibiae and tarsi, and 

 agrees with one from Brisbane. This appears to be the true H. 

 urbanu.s; the larger form (9 slightly over 6 mm. long), with black 

 come- from Stradbroke Island (//. Hacker), and certainly would 

 pa-- for a distinct specie-, were it not connected by intermediates. 

 This Stradbroke I. form may take the name variety stradbroki > 

 now 

 Halictus mundulus *p n. 



9 . Length about ."> mm.: black, with the mesothorax and scutel- 

 lum dark bluish-green; pubescence scanty, dull white, no abdominal 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



bands or patches; head broad; mandibles ferruginous, dusky apically 

 and black al extreme base; flagellum clear ferruginous beneath; 

 mesothorax moderately shining, scutellum untie polished; area of 

 metathorax semilunar, densely irregularly wrinkled, the obtuse 

 margin shining; knee-, tibiae and tarsi ferruginous, the tibia with 

 obscure dusky suffusion; tegulae amber color: wings hyaline, 

 stigma and Dervures pale testaceous; first r. n. meeting second t. <■.; 

 outer r. n. and t. c. colorless and very thin; abdomen broad, polished, 

 with very thin pubescence; hind margins of segments obscurely 

 reddish; caudal rima bright ferruginous; hair of venter long, but no1 

 curled to form a true scopa. Microscopical characters: clypeus 

 very -par-fly punctured; fronl striate, with punctures between the 

 >traia-: Third antenna] joint extremely short, fourth a little longer, 

 fifth still longer; mesothorax Lineolate, with scattered punctures; 

 abdomen with extremely minute punctures, best developed on firsl 



_ tent; hind -pur with one very large obtuse tooth like the last 

 joint of a finger) and one very low rounded lamella. 



Hab. Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Mch. l I Apl. l I. 191 I [R. E. 

 Turner; Brit. Museum). Allied to //. urbanus, but with the m<-« »- 

 thorax quite differently colored. It may also be compared with 

 //. humili8 t hut is quite distinct . 



Halictus brazieri ip n 



o". Length 11 nun. or slightly over; shining black, with scant) 

 dull white pubescence; hair on inner Bide of basitarsi and fringe of 

 caudal rima pale golden; outer side ot tibiae with hair partly dark 

 fuscous; head ordinary, only moderately broad; mandibles Mark. 

 • lark red at extreme tip; clypeus shining, with strong not dense 

 punctures, no median groove; front dull in middle, glistening al 

 sides; antennae pure black; mesothorax shining, with strong rather 

 sparse punctures of practically uniform size; scutellum with verj 

 minute punctures, entirely different from those of mesothorax; 

 mesopleura coarsel) Btriate; area of metathorax short, with fine 

 ilar cro — triae, the basal middle with irregular rugae; sid< 

 posteriorly hounded by conspicuous elevations; posterior 

 truncation strongly obliquely striate; hind -pur- simple micro- 

 scopically very briefly serrulate tegulae black, a little reddish in 

 middle; wings slightly brownish, stigma dull ferruginous, uervuree 

 fuscous, outer r. n. and t. c. much weakened; first r. n. joining end 

 of second s. m.; abdomen shining, with extremely minute punctures; 

 no hair-bands or patches, but thud and fourth segments, and ba 

 first, with thin pale glittering hair; hair at apex fuscous; venter 

 with short stiff hair. The wings are unusually short. 




PRQ< EEDING8 01 THE \< U>BM1 01 [May, 



Hab. Yallingup, S. W. Australia, Nov., 1913 {R. E. Turner; 

 Hrit. Museum). Superficially exactly like Para&phecodes noachinus 

 Ckll., bu1 the Btigma is more obtuse a1 end, marginal cell shorter, 

 abdomen much more finely punctured, and basal uervure more 

 strongly arched. The punctureless apical area on first abdominal 

 segment is extremely narrow, less than half as wide as that of 

 /'. noachinus. These two bees arc really congeneric, the genera 

 Parasphecodes and Halictus practically meeting at this point. This 

 and the next are named after Australian naturalists. 

 Halictus spenceri sp. n. 



cf. Length slightly over 8 nun.; black, rather robust, with thin 

 white hair, faintly ochreous-tinted on head and on thorax above; 

 abdomen without hands or patches, but a little pale hair at b 

 of second and third segments, and ventral segments with broad dense 

 bands of white hair; face broad, eyes subemarginate; mandibles 

 black; clypeus with a low-triangular creamy white patch, its surface 

 punctured, and with no median groove; antennas long, blacki 

 tlauellum moniliform; mesothorax shining (dull in front), with small 

 punctures; scutellum very finely punctured, not bigibbous; area of 

 metathorax semilunar, feebly sculptured, roughened basally with 

 fine rugae, the apical part microscopically areolate; mesopleura not 

 striate; tegulae piceous with a rufous spot, the anterior lateral margin 

 pallid: wings dusky, stigma dark fuscous, nervures light fuscous; 

 first r. n. joining second s. m. at end; third s. m. broader 1 han second; 

 abdomen shining, with very fine obscure punctures; apex with a 

 large, broad, rounded, bright ferruginous plate. Front dull. Legs 

 black, with pale hair. 



Hab.— Yallingup. S. W. Australia, Sept. 14-Oct. 31, 1913. (R. E. 

 Turner; Brit. Museum.) I thought at first that this might be the 

 male of H. brazier i, but the structure is too different. It belongs to 

 the group of H. cambagt i Ckll., where it is easily distinguished by its 

 large size. Some specimi os are only about 7 mm. long. 



Halictus tannaensis sp. n. 



9. Length a little over 7 mm., robust; head broad-oval, dark 

 bluish-green, the clypeus and supraclypeal area stained with crimson; 

 front and cheek- with thin dull white hair, vertex with fuscous 

 hair; mandibles Mack, obscurely reddish at apex; clypeus sparsely 

 punctured; front dull, very finely striate; head truncate posteriorly, 

 the occipital margin abrupt; antennas dark, fiagellum with only the 

 faintest red tint toward end; antennal joints 2 to 5 measuring (length) 

 in micn.n- 128, 128, 144 and 176 respectively; mesothorax and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



scutellum dullish, yellowish-green, with slight crimson tints, verj 

 finely but not extremely densely punctured; dorsum of thorax with 

 thin brownish-tinted hair: area of metathorax semilunar, well- 

 defined, with regular straight plica?, on the basal half connected by 

 minute cross-ridges; posterior truncation very hairy: legs black, aot 

 metallic, last joint of tarsi red; hair of legs black on outer side; hind 

 femora slender, arched beneath, with a long curled pale scopa; inner 

 side of tarsi with light ferruginous hair; hind spur with very long 

 spines; tegulae fuscous with a ferruginous spot : wings st rongly dusky, 

 stigma rufofuscous, nervures fuscous, outer r. n. and t. c. much weak- 

 ened; second and third s. m. cells about equal, and together not as 

 large as first; first r. n. joining third s. m. Dear base, third discoidal 

 cell narrowed above; abdomen broad, shining, impunctate, obscurely 

 bluish-green, hair at apex reddish, caudal plate narrow, exposed, 

 venter with a scopa of long white hairs. 



Hab. Tanna [sland, New Hebrides, June, 1900 ./. /. Walker; 

 Brit. Museum). Allied to //. perpessicus Kohl, from Samoa, but 

 easily distinguished by the longer, more oval head. Also allied to 

 // saffordi Ckll., from Guam, but the area of metathorax is quite 

 different. 



Halictus epiensis sp d. 



9. Length a little over 6.5 mm.; superficially and structurally 

 like H.tannaeneis, hut easily distinguished by t he following characti i - 

 me-. (thorax and scutellum narrower, more closely punctured, rich 

 blue-green; area of metathorax larger, more finely sculptured, the 

 very delicate rugae joined by cross-rugae, producing a fine reticulation, 

 while apically delicate stria? pass obliquely to each side of a fine 

 median plica; wings very dark (venation as in //. tannaeneis). The 

 third antenna] joint is very short, broader than long, a little shorter 

 than the second or fourth. 



Hab. Ringdove Bay, Epi [sland, New Hebrides, Julj 21, L900. 

 ./ ./. Walker; Brit. Museum. 



Halictus pachycephalias 



d". Length about 6 nun., rather robust, with very large broad 

 head 'wider than thorax) and short abdomen; black, with dull white 

 hair, the legs ferruginous, the coxae, trochanters, and basal hall or 

 more (it femora black, anterior femora black behind except at extreme 

 apex; spurs pale ferruginous. Head about 2.17 mm. wide; mandi- 

 bles pale yellow with the apex broadly Mack; labrum pallid; clypeus 

 with a pale yellow :ipie:il band, broad in middle; white hair of I 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF ill! \< \m.\i\ OF [May, 



net concealing the shining surface; fronl dull except at Bides, densely 

 punctured, with oblique .mainly transverse) wavj ruga above the 

 antennae; a small shining space on cadi side of middle ocellus 

 anteriorly; antennae slender, moderately long, the Sagelluro 'lull 

 reddish; length of antenna! joints in microns, (1. = scape), 560, 

 (2.) 128, 3. ill, 1. 1240; mesothorax polished and shining, sparsely 

 and finely punctured, median and parapsidal grooves distinct : scutel- 

 lum shining, the disc impunctate; legs with pale hair; basitarsi 



cream-colored at base, and a cream-colored spot al base of hind 

 femora: tegulse rufotestaceous with a pale yellowish mark: wings 

 hyaline, Btigma and nervures ferruginous; stigma large; first r. n. 

 meeting second t. c; third 8. m. large, broader above than second; 

 hind wing with lour spines on costa much before origin of radial vein, 

 a group of lour large hooks (close together beginning at origin of 

 radial vein, and a group of three hooks a short distance beyond; 

 abdomen shining, very finely punctured, with a thin pruinose pubes- 

 cence, but no bands or spots; apex with white hair: a broad, rounded, 

 very obtuse red apical plate: venter not very hairy. 



Ilnl,.- Varrawin. New South Wales, 1914. (W . IT. Froggatt, 250.) 

 Related to //. spenceri, but easily separated by the color of the legs. 

 The red stigma and other characters separate it from //. dolichocerus 

 and //. hamatopus. 



Halictus dolichocerus sp n 



cf . Length 5 to 6 mm., rather robust, with short broad abdomen: 

 head large, but not conspicuously so as in //. pachycephalus; pubes- 

 cence rather <hort. dull white; lateral bases of abdominal segments 

 2 to \ with cuneiform patches of white tomentum; legs bright 

 ferruginous, blackened at base, anterior femora black except at apex. 

 middle and hind pair with less black; tibia' with a blackish patch. 

 Byes rather strongly converging below; clypeus with a broad apical 

 band, which is angularly produced above in middle: face, and whole 

 of front, with rather dense white hair, partly concealing surface of 

 front: front dull: supraclypeal ana polished and shining; antenna' 

 extremely long, dark, the fourth joint bright or obscure red beneath; 

 flagelhmi strongly crenulati b< ueath; mesothorax polished, finely and 

 not densely punctured: scutellum brilliantly shining, middle of disc 

 impunctate; area of metathorax crescentic, with weak plica?; margin 

 of area polished; tegulse rufotestaceous; wings hyaline, Dervures 

 and stigma sepia; Becond s. m. variable; first r. n. joining >econd 

 t. e. or entering basal corner of third -. m.; third s. m. very large, 

 quadrate, sometimes longer than high; abdomen shining, very 




191G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o71 



finely punctured, apical half of second segment punctured, n<>t 

 lineolate. 



Hab. — Type from Yarrawin, X. >. W .. Froggatl 225). Also two 

 from Brewarrina, X. S. W., L914 {Froggatt). The basitarsi may be 

 distinctly yellowish. By Tin- general form and very long ant. una' 

 this resembles //. hcsmatapus CklL, l>ut it i< readily distinguished 

 by the shining mesothorax. 



Hahctus supralucens sp. a, 



. Length about 6.5 mm.; of ordinary form, black, with rather 

 scanty whir.- hair: dense bands of pure-white tomentum at extreme 

 bases of second to fourth segments, the central part on second hidden 

 by overlapping first segment; legs very 'lark In-own. with pale hair. 

 Bead broad; mandibles black, with a faint red subapical spot; 

 clypeus shining, with irregular strong punctures; front dull except 

 at Bides, finely striate; antenna' dark, fiagellum with a very obscure 

 reddish tint beneath; mesothorax shining, with irregular large and 

 small punctures, the disc not lineolate or reticulate; parapsidal 



ve& deeply impressed; scutellum flattened, depressed in middle, 

 strongly polished, almost entirely impunctate; area of metathorax 

 large, poorly defined, appearing rugose from a fine raised reticulation. 

 but the apical part smooth and shining; hind basitarsi with apical 

 brush brilliant orange-ferruginous; tegulse rather dark chestnut-red; 

 wings dusky, uervures brownish; stigma large, lull amber-color; 

 ond s. m. large; first r. a. meeting second t. <■. or joining apical 

 corner of second s. m. : abdomen shining at base, duller hey ond. with 

 extremely tine puncture-; caudal rima fringed with brown hair; 



ter with white hair, not forming a curled scopa. 

 //"'.. Kalamunda, 8. W. Australia, Feb. 9 28, and at s.",n ft., 

 March I 11. L914. /.'. E. Turner; Brit. Museum. Near // 

 mediopolitus Ckll., hut sculpture of mesothorax entirely diffei 

 I -ily known from //. orbatus Sm. by the polished scutellum. 



Halictni demissus 



Length nearly 5.5 nun.; Mack, with the mesothorax shining 

 n, polished, with sp irse punctures of different sizes, the parapsidal 

 grooves very distinct; scutellum also polished, but not green pu 

 cence scanty, dull white, the abdomen without hair-bands or -: 

 mandibles chestnul red except basally; clypeus shining, trout dull 

 and granular; fiagellum entirely dark; area of metathorax i 

 with delicate but very distinct radiating striae; legs Mack; wings 

 hyaline, uervures and the very large stigma sepia; first r. a. joining 




PRO< EEDINGS 01 THE \« AM \n OF [May, 



second s. m. a little In 'tore end; outer p. n. and t. c. very weak ; third 

 s. m. very short; abdomen polished, shining, venter with a scopa of 

 long curled hairs. Microscopical characters: fronl densely covered 

 with elongated punctures running into strise; surface of mesothorax 

 very delicately reticulated; area of metathorax minutely reticulated 

 between the ridges; hind spur with four obtuse spines. 



//<//<. Launceston, Tasmania, Nov. 1. 1914, 2 /•'. M. Littler, 

 2,699 Related t<> //. humilis Sm., hut distinguished by the 'lark 

 ad striate area <>t' metathorax. 



Halictus forticornis -]>■ » 



Length al)out 4 nun.; black, with very scanty pale pubes- 

 cence, no bands or patches on abdomen; head broad, ey< - converging 

 below; mandibles pair yellow, ferruginous a1 apex; lower half of 

 clypeus pale yellow; middle of face shining, fronl dull; cheeks 

 unarmed; scape hlack; flagellum very long, thick, submoniliform, 

 li.nht orange-ferruginous beneath; mesothorax and scutellum shining, 

 smooth and polished; area of metathorax roughened basally, but 

 with a broad shining rim; legs black, with knees, apices of tibia;, 

 and anterior tibiae in front, ferruginous; tarsi very pale reddish 

 approaching cream-color; tegulae dark ferruginous; wings hyaline, 

 nervures and the large stigma testaceous; first r. n. joining apical 

 corner of second s. m.; outer r. n. and t. c. extremely weak: abdomen 

 short, shining; sides of venter testaceous. Microscopical character-: 

 fronl striate; mesothorax with sparse minute punctures, the surface 

 of the disc not lineolate or reticulate; first two abdominal segments 

 distinctly but minutely punctured, the depressed apical part of 

 second transversely lineolate. 



Hob— Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Feb. 9-28, 1914 (R. E. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum). Very close to II. cyclognathus Ckll., but head 

 smaller, antennae longer, and area of metathorax different. 



Halictus imitans Ckll. 



George Town. Tasmania, Nov. 15, 1914 (Littler). New to Tas- 

 mania. On Nov. 29 Mr. Littler took H. lanarius Sm. a1 George 



Town. 



Halictus seductus Ckll. 



Bridport, Tasmania, Oct. 26-30, 1913 (Littler). New to Tasmania. 



Halictus semipolitus expulsus subsp. d. 



Flagellum Mack (red at end in typical semipolitus); tegula 

 piceoua or more or less reddish. 




1916.] NATURAL S< [EN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Hab. — Georgetown, Tasmania, Nov. ]."> and 29, 1914 /'. M. 



Littler.) 



Halictus macrops Bp q. 



cf . Length 5 mm. or a little over; black, robust, looking like a 

 female, the head very large and broad, I he antennae which arc entirely 

 dark) not very long; hair of bead and thorax long, dull white, slightly 

 creamy on thorax above; on abdomen the hair is thin and rather 



_. rather abundant on apical segments, bu1 no1 forming bands 

 or patches; apical plate of abdomen very broad, piceous. Mandibles 

 dark red apically; lower margin of clypeus without yellow; hair of 

 face abundant, bu1 no1 concealing shining surface of clypeus; front 

 dull; mesothorax polished, with fine scattered punctures; scutellum 

 dullish; area of metathorax narrowly crescentic, roughened, with 

 minute short plica'; legs black, with white hair; tegulae rufo-fuscous, 

 darkened in front; wings hyaline, stigma and nervures dark reddish, 

 outer r. n. and t. <■. evanescent; firsl r. n. meeting second t. c; 

 second s. m. very narrow, third large, aboul twice the size of second; 

 abdomen shining, with very minute punctures, hind margins of 

 gments more or less pallid. Microscopical characters: clypeus 

 distinctly hut sparsely punctured, the punctures emitting long 

 plumose hairs; front densely punctured, in the middle also striate, 

 the ridges between the puncture- emphasized; mesothorax distinctly 

 hiit not at all densely punctured, the surface of the disc not reticulate 

 orlineolate; punctures of scutellum smaller than those of mesothorax; 

 firel abdominal segmenl and basal half of second well though minutely 

 punctured, apical half of second transversely lineolate. 



Hab. Launceston, Tasmania. F. M. Littler.) This may be 

 compared with //. niveifrom Ckll., from winch it is easily known by 

 the broad face. 



Halictus lanariellus ip. d. 



. Length aboul s mm., the abdomen large; Mack, with dull 

 white hair: bases of abdominal segments 2 to \ with broad bands of 

 white {omentum, having a mint creamy tint, especially at sides of '_'. 

 where it i- very dense, the band on I -.. broad a- t.. occupy more than 

 half the segment; legs black, the tarsi ferruginous at apex. Head 

 broad; mandibles obscurely reddish apically; clypeus and supfa- 

 clypeal men shining and sparsely punctured; front extremely densely 

 punctured, not striate; antennae dark, fiagellum faintly reddish 

 below at apex; mesothorax shining, Btrongly and rather closely punc- 

 tured; Bcutellum shining, depressed and punctured in middle, hut 




374 pboceedinos "i phb \< \i»i.\n op [May, 



the disc on either side impunctate; area of metathorax crescentic 

 with fine plicse which in t he middle run into a reticulation, giving 

 :i subrugose effecl under a lens; hind femora and trochanters with 

 long curled floccus; hind spur simple: tegulae dark rufous; wings 

 hyaline, stigma and nervures ferruginous; second s. m. very broad 

 receiving first r. n. at apex; abdomeD shining where not covered with 

 tomentum, extremely finely punctured; venter with long white 

 hair, nut forming a curled scopa. 



Hab. Yarrawin, X. S. W. (Froggatt, 233). Close to //. lanarius 

 Sm., hut smaller and mure shining. 



Halictus confusellus »p. n 



9. Length about 7 mm.; black, with dull white hair; lateral 

 bases of second and third abdominal segments with cuneiform 

 patches of dense white tomentum. the apical part of abdomen also 

 hairy, hut not densely; legs black. Mandibles black, faintly reddish 

 subapically; clypeus and supraclypeal area shining, sparsely punc- 

 tured; front densely punctured: antenna? black; mesothorax and 

 scutellum shining, but very distinctly and quite closelj punctured 

 all over; area of metathorax crescentic, with fine radiating plicse; 

 hind spur peculiar, with a very broad rather short lamina, and a 

 low keel-like one beyond, the latter slightly inclined to be double; 

 tegulae rufopiceous; wings slightly dusky: nervures fuscous, stigma 

 dull ferruginous; outer r. n. and t. C. evanescent; first r. n. reaching 

 extreme ;ipe\ of second S. in.; third s. m. much broader above than 

 ind; abdomen shining, very finely punctured. 



Hab. — Launceston, Tasmania (F. M. lAttler). Known from 

 //. imitans Ckll. by the ferruginous stigma and shorter area of 

 metathorax. 



The following key will facilitate the reparation of a number of 

 species of Halictus discussed above: 



Mesothorax green 1 , 



Mesothorax black: abdomen black \. 



1. Small species, with red (or mainly red) tibiae 2. 

 Larger -peri.-, with dark tibia- 



2. Green of thorax very bright urbanus Sm. 



• ii of thorax obscure in a nil nl us Ckll. 



Mesothorax shining, sparsely punctured demissus Ckll. 



Mesothorax dull, much more closely punctured subinclinans < 'kil. 

 \. Males 



Females l"- 



5. Lower margin of clypeus not yellow macrops Ckll. 



Lower margin of clypeus yellow or cream-color 6. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



0. Very small, less than 5 mm. long, tarsi yellowish forticornis Ckll. 



Larger, at ieast over 5 mm. long 7. 



7. Tarsi black spenceri Ckll. 



Tarsi red or yellow 8. 



8 Stigma ferruginous; head broad and massive, pachycephalus Ckll. 



Stigma fuscous 9, 



9. Mesothorax shining dolichocerus Ckll. 



Mesothorax (lull hceroaUypus Ckll. 



10. Small, hardly .")."> mm. long semvpolitua expvisus Ckll. 

 Larger 11. 



11. Disc of mesothorax with scattered punctures of different sizes, 



sii pml uf< us ( 'kll. 



Disc of in' sothorax well punctured, the punctures uniform 12. 



12. Fourth abdominal segment, excepi broad apical margin, densely 



covered with pale felt-like hair . lanarieUus CkD 



Fourth segment uo1 so L3. 



13. Hind margins of abdominal segments reddened; area of meta- 



thorax with irregular sculpture puhritedua Ckll. 



Him 1 margins of abdominal segments black; area of metathorax 



with hue definite longitudinal plica? I I 



11. Stigma ferruginous; area of nut a thorax shorter confusi Uus Ckll. 

 Stigma piceous; area of metathorax longer imitans Ckll. 




PRO< EEDING8 01 mi. A< \i>i Ml 01 [May, 



A NEW SPECIES OF ONCHIDIOPSIS FROM BERING SEA. 

 BY WILLIAM II. DALL. 



The genus Onchidiopsis Bergfa (1853) was proposed for certain 

 Arctic mollusks related to Velutina and possessing an internal nearly 

 laminar shell. The minor characters of the few species known are 

 in many respects different but their combinations are so intermixed 

 that it is difficult to assign to the differences more than specific 

 value. However the peculiarities of the present specie- are such 

 that I venture t<» separate the genus into two sections, as follow-: 



Genua ONCHIDIOPSIS Bergh, 1853 

 Section 0NCHIDI01 SIS, type 0. grordandica Bergh. 

 Adult animal with an impervious notseum. 



Section ATLANTOLIMAX, type 0. A.) hannai Dull. 

 Adult with a large dorsal foramen in the notaeum. 



Onchidiopsis Atlantolimax hannai n 



Animal, after preservation in spirits, of a yellowish white color 

 except on the -ides of the foot and on the osphradium. The foot is 

 muscular, broad, tapering and bluntly pointed behind, extending 

 about one-third of its length behind the hinder margin of the no- 

 taeum even when contracted: the front edge duplex, auriculate at 

 the anterior lateral angle-: proboscis entirely retractile within a 

 transverse -lit. below the short stout tentacle-: eyes black, distinct. 

 completely imbedded in and a little above the not perceptibly swollen 

 bases of the tentacle-, on their outer side-: verge situated behind 

 the rijrht tentacle, large, twisted, at first -tout and -uheylindrical. 

 then deeply constricted; then compressed and expanded with a 

 conical papilla at the outer corner of the expansion 1 much as in 

 0. corya Balch. 



The sides of the foot are radially corrugated, the convex folds 

 sometimes more or less granulose; above the corrugated area and 

 in the pedal sulcus below the edge of the mantle the surface i- smooth 



1 In Balch'a figure of 0. turns tlii- papilla is shown :it tin- inner corner of the 

 expansion, a difference which b probably due to twisting. Cf. Proc. U.S. Nat. 

 Museum, No. 1,761, pi. 22, fin. 1. 




1916.] NATURAL S< LEN( BS OP PHILADELPHIA. 377 



and white, though the corrugations are more or less tinged with 

 slate color. The visceral hump i- enormous, subglobular, shorter 

 than the foot, height above the sole 52 mm .; above the sulcus 

 between mantle-edge and foot 40 nun.: longitudinal diameter 

 42 mm.; transverse diameter 37 nun. The hump is largely covered 

 by a thick, obscurely pustulous, almost coriaceous layer the notseum 

 beneath which is a thin, transparent but quite tough mantle which 

 in spirits expands below the basal edge of the notaeum above the pedal 

 sulcus especially in front though uot as much as in 0. like 



a mass of bubbles, with a hardly perceptible sinus on either side 

 forming an incurrent and an exhalenl channel, which however does 

 not affect the margin of the notaeum, the latter being entire except 

 for a slight incurvation in the median line in front. 



The summit of the notaeum in spirits exhibits an ovoid foramen 

 about 3D nun. long by 24 mm. wide, through which the shell, covered 

 by the excessively thin transparent mantle, i- partially vi<il>le. 



There j- a transverse slit-like opening between the mantle ami 

 the pedal sulcus, directly behind the head, in which the osphradium, 

 ctenidium and excretory nutlet- are situated. Tin osphradium i- 

 <>r' a greenish tint, with darker margins. The i_ci 1 1 i- translucent 

 white. In the former the filaments are single and elongated on 

 either Bide of the -talk, not short and double a- in 0. corys. The 

 ctenidium ha- a single row of long, triangular, not auriculate lamellae 

 much a- in that species. 



The jaw much resembles that of 0. corys, but the radula was so 

 deeply retracted that it was thought besl uot to break up the unique 

 specimen by cutting t" extrad it. 



The base <>f the an- of the -hell measures H» mm. long by 32 mm. 



wide. It ha- much the shape of the bowl <»l a deep OVal ladle and it- 

 depth i- about L5 mm. when in normal position. It- structure is 

 concentric, qoI in circle- but in a rounded-quadrate fashion. On 

 the edge of the left -ide behind i- a knot-like nucleus. < »n the inner 

 surface near thi- nucleus and extending for a length of about l_' mm. 

 away from it are two elevated straight ridges, which at half their 

 length from the nucleus join to form a single stronger ridge which 

 gradually diminishes and becomes obsolete on the inner surface of 



the di-k. The appearance of tln-r ridges suggests that l! the -hell 



wa- spirally coiled they would form a columella. The outer surface 



of the -hell, to which the mantle adhere- tenaciously, i- smooth, but 



undulated by more or less irregularly disposed concentric wrinkle-. 



It i- attache. 1 to the body only by m small area at the edge near the 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE LCADEMT OF [May, 



nucleus. There Is ao indication of a periostracum, and the carti- 

 laginous shell is nearly transparent. 



The specimen was collected on the beach of St. Paul [aland, 

 Bering Sea, after a Bevere storm, I )ecember 5, 191 I, by Mr. ( i. I >allas 

 Banna of the Bureau of Fisheries, in whose honor h is named. 

 I - Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 215,162. 



This species differs from 0. corys by its widely foraminate nbtseum, 

 it- much larger visceral hump, its single instead of double osphradial 

 lamellse, and the character of its shell. 0. gronlandica, gladalia 

 and pacifica have an imperforate notseum. 0. gronlandica has a low 

 visceral hump and entirely different form of verge. 0. glacially has 

 a proportionately much shorter and posteriorly pointed foot, lower 

 hump and different type of verge, and 0. pacifica shows much the 

 -a me differences. 



The disposition to "lump" together specifically animals of this 

 genus in spite of minor differences, is responsible for much confusion. 

 The differences of more than specific rank run parallel to those in 

 Velutina, where some species have the shell entirely covered by the 

 notasum and others have it more or less exposed. It has been 

 suggested that all species have the shell covered in the young, but 

 the specimens of all ages collected by me do not confirm this sup- 

 position. 



While the edges of the shell and its concave surface, except for 

 the portion near the nucleus, are free from the visceral hump below, 

 it is nevertheless completely covered by an extremely thin layer of 

 tough tissue which can be separated from the shell only with difficulty. 

 usually coming off in small strips. This tissue I assume to be an 

 extension of the mantle as it has none of the characteristics of a 

 periostracum. The entrance of the vagina could not be made out. 

 It required for its demonstration more extensive dissection than was 

 thought advisable for the unique specimen. The animal is pre- 

 sumably hermaphrodite, like the other species of the genus which 

 have been anatomically examined. 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF THE SARCOSPORIDIA 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



In a paper recently published by the presenl author (Crawley, 

 1916), i vidence was given to show that the spores of Sarcocystis muris 

 are sexually differentiated. This evidence was based upon the 

 findings in the intestinal cells of mice to which the Bpores had been 

 fed. It is, however, quite possible that a careful study of accurately 

 fixed and stained spores taken directly from the cysts would reveal 

 characters serving to differentiate the male- and females. Certain 

 author-, for instance Fantham L913 . in the case of Sarcocystis colli, 

 speak of two kinds of spores, but aothing of the sorl has as yet been 

 demonstrated in the case of Sarcocystis muris. 



Nevertheless, as already stated, these -pore- are male- and females 

 and within the intestinal cells of the mouse they quickly develop 

 along then- respective lines. Tin- evolution is completed in from 



9 to 18 hour.-, after which fertilization takes plact . 



My own studies shed no Light upon later events. The fertilized 



female or zygote can be found, sometimes within the epithelial cells, 



-..me' line- m the subepithelial tissues, in mice killed one or t wo daj - 



after inoculation. But as yel I have qoI been able to find the 



isite in mice killed a1 longer intervals than this after feeding. 



Erdmann I'M l describes and figures whal are apparently the 

 multiplication stages of a parasitic protozoan in the intestinal cells 

 and tissues of mice killed some days after the ingestion of sarcos- 

 poridian spores. The precautions taken l>y Erdmann seem absolutely 

 to preclude infection- with any other protozoan. Consequently, 

 as the case now stands, il seems entirely reasonable to look upon the» 

 multiplication stages as derived from the zygote 



According to Negre 1907 the f< c< - of mice thai have Ween inocu- 

 _ the usual cysts contain a stage of the parasite 

 capable of producing the infection if fed to other mice. Thi 

 present in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth da} after inocula- 

 tion. I' i- evidently a resistant encysted ince it maintains 

 it- vitality for :!•> days in the dried feces, and i- capable oi n listing 

 a considerable degree of heat. When mic< art inoculated with this 

 ge, both the time required for the parasites to appear in the 




i'uim i i dings of i in: lc \i>i:\n oi [June, 



muscles and the percentage of positive cases are the same as when 

 the mice are fed with the stages occurring in the muscles. Negre, 

 however, was not able to detect this clement in the feces and although 

 it seems a> it' it musl be presenl in the intestinal tissues for a long 

 time after inoculation, it has never been seen. Hence the evidence 

 tor it- existence, while entirely satisfactory, is wholly indirect. 



Negre's experiments have been repeated at the Zoological Labora- 

 tory of the Bureau of Animal Industry, and his results confirmed. 

 'The impression is. however, that the infections resulting from 

 inoculation with the fecal stage arc heavier than those obtained from 

 feeding infected muscle. Microscopical examination of the spores 

 obtained in this manner -how them to be precisely the same as those 

 resulting from the other mode of infection. 



A- we have seen, Erdmann describes multiplication stages as 

 occurring in the intestine some days after inoculation. The parasite 

 then disappears to reappear at about the forty-fifth day in the 

 muscle-. Several authors have endeavored to trace the history of 

 the muscle stages, but of the several accounts the most convincing 

 is that of Negri (1910). This author worked with the white rat, 

 but the parasites of the rat and mouse seem to he identical and 

 there is no reason to suppose that the development of one would be 

 any different from tfiat of the other. 



The smallest and hence, doubtless, the youngest stage found by 

 N< gri was an elongated body, about 25 v- long. It was found in a 

 rat killed .">o days after feeding. It showed a delicate bounding 

 membrane and was rather indistinctly divided into a number of oval 

 elements, each with a central differentiation. This no doubt repre- 

 sented the nucleus. Negri designates these bodies a- sporoblasts. 



In somewhat larger cysts the picture is clearer, the oval sporoblasts 

 being completely individualized, and each show- a very distinct 

 nucleus. 



From this point on development appear- to follow very simple 

 line-. The sporoblasts divide repeatedly by bi-partition, each 

 daughter cell coming t.> assume the oval form of the mother cell. 

 The parasite it-elf. the so-called cyst, becomes larger, but this increase 

 in size is due merely to an increase in the number of the sporoblasts, 

 which do not themselves become larger. The entire mass remains 

 separated from the host tissue by the same kind of a delicate mem- 

 brane. 



Matter- proceed in this way until the cysts, according to Negri, 

 have attained a length of -ome 600/*. From this time on, "however, 




1916.] NATURAL >< CENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



the two daughter cells arising from the division of a sporoblasl do 

 not always take on the oval form of the mother cell, but each retains 

 the form it had at the momenl of division and does no1 again divide. 

 The division of the sporoblast having been longitudinal, the form ol 

 the daughter cells is i hat of a banana and they are, in fad . the spores. 



The production of the spores in this waj is initiated in the central 

 part, of the cyst. At the outset of this new line of development, the 

 cysts will contain many sporoblasts and few spores and there is no 

 doubt that the production of both spores ami sporoblasts may take 

 place simultaneously in differenl or even the same parts of the same 

 cyst. Eventually, however, the divisions of the sporoblasts produce 

 only spores which finally come to he the only elements presenl 

 within the cysts. 



Bertram (1892 describes very early stages of the evolution of 



Sarcocystis i< nella in the muscles of the sheep. Several of hi- original 



figures have been reproduced in mosl of the general work- on the 



parasitic Protozoa, and doubtless arc familiar to all students of these 



:ii-m-. Of these, Bertram's figure 22, reproduced by Doflein 



1911 I a- figure 891 C, page 922, represents an elemenl \~ ■• long by 



wide. We have here what appear- to be a -olid body indistinctly 



marked out into -mall round or oval elements, each with a nucleus. 



h i- strikingly like the smallesl stage of Sarcocystis muris as figured 



and described by Negri. 



Bertram also figures somewhal larger stages of the muscle phase of 

 Sarcocystis tenella, and in these, reproduced by Doflein 1911 

 figures 891 B and I), page 922, the so-called cysts are more or less 

 completely differentiated into rounded or oval nucleated cells, the 

 sporoblasts. 



Since the Sarcosporidia are always classified as NTeosporidia, it has 

 been tacitly assumed that the earliest stage in the muscles musl be 

 an organism in which growth and -pore formation take place coinci- 

 dently. The very smallest stages figured and described bj V 

 and Bertram are capable of being interpreted in this way, since they 

 appear to consist of bodies of some size indistinct!) divided into 

 rounded or oval nucleated elements. Inasmuch, however, as these 

 bodies occur embedded in the muscular tissues of their hosts, it is 

 by no mi clear-cut pictures of them, and it i- wholly 



possible thai the rather indefinite appearances figured bj these two 

 author- may be due merely to the difficulty of differentiating the 

 Bporoblasts from the surrounding hosl tissues. In consequent 

 is not at. all impossible that these earlit I ol Bertram and 




182 PRO* EEIMNOS OF THE ACADEMY OF I.June, 



N gri may be only groups of sporoblasts, and it. La in harmony with 

 this opinion that in both cases these authors figure slightly later 

 stages of the parasite in which the sporoblasts are completely 

 individualized. 



More direct evidence, however, i> furnished by some material which 

 ha- recentl) been examined by the present author. This, from the 

 heart of a sheep, appears to show that at least in the case of Sar- 

 ' ■- tenella, the sarcosporidian cyst originates from a single cell. 

 This conclusion is based upon the discovery of a single partly divided 

 sporoblast, lying in a minute cavity within a cell of the heart. Divi- 

 sion had progressed to the point where the two daughter cells were 

 wholly distinct, but still in intimate contact. The next stage found 

 consisted of a group of eight sporoblasts, also lying in a cavity within 

 a heart cell. All of these eight sporoblasts were more or less com- 

 pletely individualized. In addition to these very small stages, 

 larger groups of sporoblasts were found, up to cysts of over 100 ,"■ 

 long. But in all cases the elements composing the groups were 

 obviously the same as the sporoblasts of Negri and Bertram. 



Thus the data furnished by Bertram, Negri, and the present 

 author are entirely consistent amongst themselves, and are mutually 

 confirmatory and supplementary. For although the earliest known 

 stage of S. muris yet discovered consists of a number of cells, about 

 six or seven, judging from Negri's figure, we can hardly ascribe to it 

 a mode of development different from that of .S'. tenella. Assuming 

 then that these data are accurate, a certain interesting conclusion 

 seems to follow. 



Thi> conclusion is in effect that the muscle stage of Sarcocystis 

 muris is not an individual, but a congeries or colony of individuals. 

 In other words, the unit is not the cyst or Miescher's tube, but the 

 sporoblast itself. 



Assuming that this is true, the life history of Sarcocystis muris 

 would be as follows: The ingested spores gain the epithelium of 

 the intestine and develop into the macrogametes and microgametes. 

 The latter fertilize the former and produce the zygotes. By endo- 

 genous multiplication the zygotes produce a number of minute 

 elements. There is here a gap in the life history. It is evident 

 that two divergent lines are followed since, as we have seen, some 

 form of the parasite appears in the feces from the fifteenth to the 

 sixtieth day. It is therefore impossible to say whether the multi- 

 plication products described by Erdmann are those destined to 

 invade the muscles or to infect the feces. But whatever happens, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. MSii 



it is evident that at the end of several weeks some form of the parasite 

 invades the muscles. This is either the sporoblast itself or it- 

 immediate forerunner, which may be the zygote or some element 

 derived from the zygote. 



In any event, at a certain point in the evolutionary history, the 

 muscle cells come to harbor individual sporoblasts. These divide 

 many times by bi-partition, but eventually the products of these 

 divisions are no longer sporoblasts, but -pores. It may incidentally 

 be noted that unless its development be interfered with, each sporo- 

 blasl will presumably produce a cyst. 



It will be "(' interesl to compare the several stages of the life 

 history of Sarcocystis muris with those of an ideal member of the 

 Coccidiomorpha. 



The sarcosporidian "spore" develops directly into the sexual 

 stages the macrogametes and microgametes. These copulate and 

 produce the zygotes. In the coccidiomorphan, the merozoites pro- 

 duced a1 the end of schizogony follow an identical line of development. 



Tlie sarcosporidian zygote divides into a number of small bodies, 

 the further history of which is unknown. The coccidian zygote 

 ultimately produces the sporozoites, although the details whereby 

 this end is gained are subject to greal variation. 



In the sarcosporidian, some product of the zygote ultimately finds 

 its way into the muscle cells, and produces the colony of sporoblasts. 

 In the Coccidiomorpha, the sporozoites eventually find their way 

 into their appropriate habitats, which are always cells, and grow 

 into trophozoites. 



In the sarcosporidian, the sporoblasts divide a number of times by 

 bi-partition, after which -pine- are produced and division ceases. 

 These Bpores, in order to develop further, must gain the alimentary 

 canal of another host in which they will evolve into the sexual staj 

 In the Coccidiomorpha, the trophozoites divide into merozoites. 

 These grow into trophozoites, which again divide into merozoites 

 and so on for an indefinite number of generations. Eventually, 

 however, the merozoites develop, not into trophozoites, but into the 



sexual form-. 



It will next be in order to see what conclusions may be drawn 

 from the data given above. In so doing, it will be convenient to 

 divide the sarcosporidian life history into three portion-, namely, 

 the sexual development which take- place in the intestinal epithelium; 



the Stage which follow- this; and finally the stage which occur- m 



the muscles. 




384 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE \< U>EM1 OF ' - 1 1 1 1 < • 



In bo far as the first of these stages is concerned, thai is. the evolu- 

 tion of the microgametes and macrogametes, the parallel between 

 sarcosporidian and coccidiomorphan is exact. 



In the second stage, the gaps in our knowledge of the course of 

 events in the Sarcosporidia prevents as precise a comparison. We do 

 no1 know what happens between the time the parasite leaves the 

 epithelium and the time it. invades the muscle, nor lias the stag* 

 which appears in the feres ever been seen. Nevertheless, the course 

 Ol event- in the two cases musl be more or less similar. For in both, 

 the zygote divides into a Dumber of small elements which serve to 

 carry the infection either to other hosts or to other parts of the same 

 ho3t. In the Coccidiomorpha, there is typically a first division 

 in f i spores, the protoplasm of which secondarily divides into sporo- 

 zoites. In the sarcosporidian, it is in evidence that the zygote 

 divides into small elements, the further history of which is not 

 known. But in any event, it must he some product of the zygote 

 which on the one hand invades the muscles and on the other develops 

 into the encysted fecal stage. It is conceivable that it is an encysted 

 zygote which infects the feces. Imt we do not know. 



In the third stage, the course of events differs in detail in the two 

 groups of animals, hut the end results are the same, since in both 

 there are produced a large number of elements destined to evolve 

 into the sexual stages. In the Coccidiomorpha, there is extensive 

 growth, followed by multiple division, this cycle being repeated an 

 indefinite number of times. In the Sarcosporidia, there is an indefin- 

 ite number of bi-partitions alternating with only enough growth to 

 restore the element to its original size. In the one case, the Sar- 

 cosporidia, multiplicative energy is continuous, while in the other, 

 the ( Joccidiomorpha, it is periodic, but this difference is not essential. 



We may next endeavor to homologize the several stages in the life 

 history of Sarcocystis maris with those of the Coccidiomorpha. In 

 the fir>t place, it is entirely evident that the sarcosporidian "spore" 

 i- the hoiaologue of the coccidiomorphan merozoite. The sexual 

 stages are alike. The multiplication products of the sarcosporidian 

 zygote are presumably the homologues of either the spores or sporo- 

 zoitee CJoccidiomorpha. The sporoblasl isnol so easy to place. 



It may correspond to either the sporozoite or the trophozoite of the 

 CJoccidiomorpha. A knowledge oi it- derivation is necessary before 

 thi- point can he determined. Since, however, the sporoblasts are 

 all of much the same size, whether occurring singly or within group-, 

 the distinction here between sporozoite and trophozoite would be 

 largely a matter of term-. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. :W) 



Attention may also he called to the homology of the Barcosporidian 



muscle stage with the entire schizogonous cycle of the Coccidio- 

 morpha. In the latter, the products of schizogony are set tree and 

 are enahled to invade new region- of the host. In the former, ;i 

 tissue reaction on the part of the host confines them to the region 

 originally invaded. 



If the line of reasoning developed above he soundj it seems to 

 follow that the Sarcosporidia are not Neosporidia, but Telosporidia, 

 and moreover Telosporidia which obviously belongs to the Coecidio- 

 morpha. In the discussion given above, the various characters 

 the Sarcosporidia and Coccidiomorpha were compared, the result 

 showing both resemblances and differences. Hut as will lie pointed 

 out helow, the character- of taxonomic value wen- those wherein the 

 two groups were alike, whereas the differences had to do with charac- 

 ters not, used m classification. 



Before, however, giving the reasons tor regarding the Sarcosporidia 

 to he Telosporidia, it may he advisable to point out the difficulties 



in the way of regarding them a- Neosporidia. This group, which 



constitutes a subclass of the Sporozoa, i- defined by Doflein l I'd l . 

 p. Tin :i- composed of sporozoa which may Bporulate during the 

 entire vegetal ive period. 



Thus, a typical aeosporidian will consist of a multinucleate organ- 

 Ism, in the cytoplasm of which there will he a aumber of -pore- m 

 various stages of evolution. It, ha- apparently always been assumed 

 that something of the sort take- place in the Sarcosporidia; that the 

 cyst original « from a multinucleate element winch only secondarily 

 becomes multicellular. A- we have seen, however, the cyst is com- 

 posed of separate cell- from the very outset. Hence there appear- 

 to he no good reason for regarding the Sarcosporidia as Neosporidia. 



\\ • are now in position to suggest, :it least tentatively, a new 

 classification for the Sporozoa. Tin- clae is divided into two 

 -uIh Telosporidia and Neosporidia. In the first, division 



into multiplicative element- take- place only at the end of the 

 tative period. In the second, as we have seen, growth ami spore 

 format ion | ake place simultaneously. 



Following Doflein, the Telosporidia may he divided into two 



order-, a- follows: 



1 . I ioccidiomorpha : 



Veget itive stage continuously intracellular. 



Fertilization anisogamous. * 



Sexua generation continuously or transient!} intracellular. 




PRO< BEDINGS OF THE v \i»r.\n 01 [June, 



2 I rn garinida: 



Vegetative stage, if intracellular at all, only bo a1 first; adults 



;ilwa\ - extracellular. 

 Fertilization anisogamous or isogamous. 

 Fertilized forms always continuously extracellular. 



In the Sarcosporidia, the vegetative stage is intracellular, becoming 

 extracellular only through the destruction of the cells originally 

 occupied. Fertilization is anisogamous and the sexual generation 



is typically intracellular, becoming extracellular only by accident. 

 Evidently, then, so far as the main characters go, those of the Sar- 

 cosporidia are identical with those of the Coccidiomorpha. It 

 therefore seems allowable to place them in this group. 



Doflein divides the order Coccidiomorpha into suborder- as 

 follows : 



1. Coccidia: 



Sporozoites inclosed in spores. 



Zygotes nonmotile, mostly intracellular. 



2. Haemosporidia: 



Sporozoites always free. 



Zygote, as the ookinete, motile, and migrating into new cells. 



Judging from Erdmann's contribution, the sarcosporidian zygote 

 does not produce spores, but divides directly into what an; possibly 

 sporozoites. This would place the Sarcosporidia closer to the 

 Haemosporidia than to the Coccidia. But the fact that the zygote 

 is apparently nonmotile indicates that the relationship with the 

 Coccidia is the closer. Obviously, however, the Sarcosporidia are 

 neither Coccidia nor Haemosporidia, but our very scanty knowledge 

 regarding this phase of their life history prevents us from defining 

 them in the terms used by Doflein for the two other groups. For 

 the present, it seems best merely to consider them to be one of three 

 suborders making up the Coccidiomorpha. 



The Sporozoa may then be reclassified as follows: 



( Jlasa Sporozoa. 

 Subclass I, Telosporidia. 



< Irder 1, Coccidiomorpha. 



Suborder A, Coccidia. 

 Suborder B, Haemosporidia. 

 Suborder C, Sarcosporidia. 

 Order 2, Gregarinida. 




1916.] NATURAL S< tENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -^, 



Subclass II. Neosporidia. 



Order l, ( Jnidosporidia. 



Suborder A. Myxosporidia. 

 Suborder B. Microsporidia. 

 Suborder I ', Actinomyxidia. 

 I Irder 2, Baplosporidia. 



It is to be observed that, the character- used by Doflein to classify 

 the Telosporidia are nol those having to do with the nature of the 

 life history. Thus, although the Eaemosporidia have two I 

 while the Coccidia have bu1 one, these two groups are ranked aa 

 closely related suborders. Therefore the fact thai we are -till in the 

 dark as to whether the Sarcosporidia have two hosts or only one has 

 no bearing upon what is their proper place in the classification of the 

 Sporozoa. 



With regard to this question, the probabilities are that there are 



two host-. Indeed. 8UCD an hypothesis i< more or less obligatory 



when it comes to accounting for the wide-spread occurrence of 

 Sarcosporidia in purely herbivorous animal-. Buch as sheep. As no 

 more than an interesting -peculation, it might be suggested that the 

 ad host, a carnivor, infect- itself by eating the infected flesh of 

 a herbivor. The merozoites, released in the intestine, initiate the 

 sexual cycle and the encysted form i- discharged in the feces. This 

 encysted stage, ingested by a herbivor with its food, eventually 

 infects the muscles and the cycle u repeated. Analogy would lead 

 u- to suspect thai the sexual cycle is, in general, confined to the 

 carnivor; the asexual to the herbivor. Tin- view receives a certain 

 amount of indirect support from the facts thai whereas the purely 

 herbivorous sheep and cattle are practically invariably infected, 

 records of the finding of sarcosporidian cysts in the muscles of car- 

 nivorous animal- are very rate. Finally, the fact that in the mouse 



both the Bexual and asexual cycle- occur presents no particular 

 difficulty. Mice are omnivorous and can infect themselves either 

 by eating the flesh of their dead fellows, or, as Negre firsl showed, 

 by the contamination of their food with the encysted fecal Btage. 

 In conclusion, i1 may be mentioned thai Nfcgre's discovery is of 

 the utmip-t significance when it, come- to an endeavor to elucidate 

 the life history of the Sarcosporidia. Yet, for whatever may have 

 been the reasons, il has been persistently overlooked or ignored and 

 hence has never been awarded the credit to which u i- entitled. 




:>S,S PB0CESDIN08 «»i THE ACADEM1 <>K |.Iunr, 



REFERENCES I !lTBD. 



Bertram, A. 1892. Beitrage but Kenntniss der Sarcosporidien aebal einem 

 Anhange iiber parasjtische Schl&uche in der Leibeshdhle von Rotatorien 

 <ZooL Jahrb., Jena, Abt. f. Anat., v. •"> (3 I . 20. Oet., pp. 581 804, pis. 



- Kt. 



Crawlet, Howard. 1916. The sexual evolution of Sarcocysti* mum. Pp.2 13, 



5 pis . 93 figs. r. Philadelphia. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., Jan.) 

 Doflein, F. L911. Lehrbuch der Protozoenkunde. Bine Darstellung der 



Naturgeschichte der Protozoen mil besonderer Beriicksichtigung der para- 



sitischen und path og cn en Formen. 3. stark vennehrte Aufl. xn + 1043 pp., 



951 figs. 8 . Jena. 

 ECrdmann, I i i i 1914. Zu einigen Btrittigen Punkten der Sarkosporidienfor- 



schung <Arch. de zool. exper. el gen., Par., v. 53 (9), juin, pp. 579-596, 



pis. 17-18, figs. 1-40. [Issued 20 juin. I 

 Fantham, H. B. 1913. Sarcoeystis colii, n. sp., a Baxcosporidian occurring in 



tin' red-faced African mouse bird, Coitus erythromelon < Proc Cambridge 



[Eng.] Phil. Soc, v. 17 (3), Sept. 8, pp. 221-224, pi. 5. 

 Neqre, L. 1907. Sarcosporidiose experimentale <Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., 



Par., an. .">(>, v. 63, v. 2 (30), ler nov., pp. 374-37.Y 



Negri, A. 1910. Beobachtungen iiber Sarkosporidien. 3. Mitteilung <Cen- 

 tralbl. I'. Bakteriol. (etc). Jena, 1. Abt., v. 55 (5), 17. Aug., Orig., pp. 373-383, 

 1 pi., figs. 1-12. 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. oV 



COLD-BLOODED VERTEBRATES FROM COSTA RICA AND THE CANAL ZONE. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



During the summer of 1915 Mr. David E. Harrower gathered the 

 collections listed below, which wen- later purchased by the Academy. 

 Several of the fishes are new to science, and other records are for 

 rare or unusual forms. 



COSTA RICA. 



The collections made in Costa Rica were obtained at Guapilis, 

 the Chirripo River Valley and Port Limon, all in the Atlantic 

 drainage. 



Guapilis. 



A small collection of fresh-water fishes was obtained in the basin 

 ■of the lii" < ruapilis. 



Astyanax aeneus costaricensis Meek. 



Head 3f; depth 2\ to 2f; D. in, 8 to in. !'; A. in, 25, i to in, 

 27. i; scales :ii to 36 in lateral line to caudal base and :■; more on 

 latter; snout 3| to 4 in head; eye '■> to 3J; maxillary 2{ to 2|; 

 interorbital 2\ to :); maxillary teeth 1-2 and 1 1. inner row 4-4. 

 Color when fresh in alcohol olive-brown on l>ack. Broad Lateral 

 brassy band, nearly wide as eye, changes behind into Leaden-dusky 

 blotch at middle of caudal base, and continues <>ut on median caudal 

 fin-rays to their edges. Hind edges "i each caudal lobe narrowly 

 blackish, fin gray, and lower lobe tinged with red. Dorsal warm 

 brown. Adipose fin gray. Anal gray, darker along lower edge 



and in front with median blood-red tinge '"' blotch, fading out behind. 



Pectoral dilute reddish. Ventral bright vermilion. In- yellowish. 

 Two example- 98 and 100 mm. in length. 



Alfaro cultratus R< 



Color olivaceous above, when fresh in alcohol. Dusky median 

 streak on hack. Iris olivaceous. Lower surface of body and head 

 paler than hack. Dusky streak extend- down each side of lower 

 jaw and on under side of head till opposite hind pupil edge. Dorsal 

 gamboge-olive. Caudal olive-gray. Other fins pale gamboge. Thvqe 

 examples, 52 to 58 nun. 




pro< i i dings "i i in: \, \di \n of [June 



Priapichthys annectens (Regan). 



ll'.i'l:;': depth 3; D. i, 9; A. in, 7; Bcales 28 to caudal base and 

 about 10 more on caudal basallj ; 9 scales between dorsal and anal 

 origins; 20 scales before dorsal; snout -' in head measured from 

 upper jaw tip; eye '■'<]: maxillary 2f. Gill-rakers about 1"» short 

 points. On head above several Large cavities or channel- lengthwise 

 from near front «»t' snout till oVer middle of eyes. A transverse 

 channel posteriorly also over eye <>n cadi side, and -til! posteriorly 

 •J more large pores. Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceous-dusky 

 above ami on sides, all scales strongly contrasted by dark or dusky- 

 black borders, forming a prolonged reticulated pattern. Under 

 surface of head and trunk pale to whitish. Jaws dusky. Iris olive. 

 Dorsal olivaceous, marginally grayish and each membrane at ha-" 

 with blackish blotch. Caudal gray, olive-gamboge basally. Pec- 

 toral pale olive. Ventral yellowish. Anal bright orange-red in 

 front, edge behind, and basal portion yellowish. One example, s 

 female. 03 nun. 

 Poeciliopsis isthmensis Regan. 



Color of male fresh in alcohol olivaceous above and on sides, 

 lower surface of head and trunk paler. Each scale with dark edge 

 sharply defined and producing greatly contrasted reticulated pattern. 

 Row of underlaid narrow leaden vertical lines or streaks, about 14 

 in number, along middle of sides. Fins grayish, edges slightly 

 darker. Dorsal mostly tinged olive basally. Edge of intromittent 

 organ dusky. Iris dark. Length 43 mm. for largest, and 22 mm. 

 for smallest, in -erics of eleven examples. The smaller males show 

 the anal tinged with orange, and dorsal and caudal base- gamboge. 

 Also black dots at edges of scales. 



Adult female with scales very dark edged. Dusky spot on each 

 dorsal membrane before dorsal ray basally. Anal gray and ventral 

 whitish. Dusky blotch above vent. Iris olive. One example 

 .10 mm. long. 



Poeciliopsis maculifer -!> nov. Fig. 1 



Head \\: depth 3§; D. i, 8; A. m, 7; P. I, 11; V. I, 5; scales 29 

 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 9 scales between 



dorsal and anal origins; 17 scales before dorsal; head width 1=; its 

 length: second branched dorsal ray l\; first branched anal ray 1': 

 least depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal little longer than hea.l; 

 pectoral li; ventral If; snout Z\ in head, measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye3|; maxillary 3; interorbital If. 




1U1H. 



NATURAL S< [EN< ES OF I'HILADKI.PHI A. 



391 



Body elongate, rather robust forward, deepesl at. ventral origin, 

 well compressed, predorsal region moderately depressed and abdomen 

 somewhat pot-bellied. Caudal peduncle somewhat large, elongate, 

 leasl depth hut slightly over half its length. 



Head small, depressed above, convex below and profiles alike. 

 Snout broad, depressed above, and Length (in profile! about half 

 it- width. Eye rounded, rather high, and about midway in head 

 length. Eyelids free. Premaxillaries greatly protractile. Maxil- 

 lary little tier, vertical, mostly concealed, and not reaching eye. 

 Mouth -mall. Lower jaw rather weak, slightly protrudes, and at 

 unison of rami rather weak, shallow. Teeth small, uniform, simple, 

 conic, in ;i single row and flexibly fastened at, bases. Lips rather 



i i. I . PcBcUiopait nun I •■ ler. 



thin. Tongue -mall, depressed, fne m front. Nostril close above 

 upper front eye edge, [nterorbital flattened. Preopercle ridge 

 inclined slightly forward. 

 Gill-opening extend- forward about opposite hind pupil edge. 



Maker- aboul 16 diort weak point-, about ', of filaments, and latter 



aboul half of e\ e. 



Sea ge, cycloid, narrowly imbricated, largest on upper surl 



of head, and become small on caudal peduncle behind. Scales on 

 breast and belly but little -mailer than those on sides. ' laudal base 

 with several irregular rows of small scales. Several rather 



poren or pit- ..n head above, • directly behind upper hind edge <>\ 



ey< Mucous channel, opening by several pores, along edge of pre- 

 :le. Side of -noiit with several -mailer pores. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CAOEM1 OF | .1 1 1 r 1 • ■ .. 



Dorsal inserted aboul midway ltd, wren hind pupil edge and 

 caudal base, second branched ray highest, and depressed fin extending 

 slightly over half way to caudal base. Anal inserted slightly behind 

 dorsal origin, reaches about half way to caudal base when depressed, 

 and first branched ray Longest. Roth dorsal and anal form distincl 

 point in front at tip of -croud branched ray, and upper pout edge 

 of each also slightly emarginate. Caudal with hind edge convex, 

 <ach corner forming slight angle. Pectoral rather broad, extends 

 hack opposite ventral origin. Ventral inserted aboul midway 

 between pectoral and anal origins, depressed fin reaching Latter, and 

 first branched ray longest. Vent and genital orifice close before anal. 



i !olor when fresh in alcohol olive-yellow generally above, edges 

 • >i scales darker. Lower surface of head and belly pale to whitish. 

 Dorsal bright orange-yellow, edge gray and base broadly jet-black. 

 Caudal grayish, base yellowish. Pectoral pale olive. Vnal and 

 ventral whitish, tinged with yellowish medianly. Broad dark brown 

 median streak down hack and brownish line along lower surface of 

 caudal peduncle from anal to caudal base. Tri< olive. 



Length 55 mm. 



Type. No. 15,391, A. X. S. P. (Female.) Rio Guapilis at Guapilis, 

 Costa Rica. July, 1915. D. E. Harrower. 



Also Nos. 45, 392 to 45,394, same data, paratypes, all females. 

 They show: Head 3* to 4; depth 3| to 4; D. i, 8: A. in, 7; scales 

 30 to 32 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter; snout 

 :; to :\\ in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 2f; inter- 

 orbital 2; length 25 to 46 mm. 



Allied with the preceding species in having t he dorsal origin slightly 

 before that of the anal. It differs in the more elongate body. In 

 the -mall head it resembles I', ji/'llieri, though that species i- said to 

 have the depth 2.0 to 2.8. The jaws are not so broadly truncate 

 a- in PcecUopsis generally, Out, have a more rounded appearance 

 laterally, a- in Fundulus and allied genera. 



Macula, -pot; fero, to bear; with reference to the black basal 

 dorsal blotch. 



Mollienisia sphenops tropica (Meek). 



Color of adult female generally olivaceous, under surface of head 

 and trunk paler, when fresh in alcohol. Along side of trunk each 

 Bcale with -mall oli-cure orange -pot, producing lengthwise streaks. 

 Dorsal olive, base jet-black over good portion. Caudal and pectoral 

 dull olive. Anal orange, hind edge whitish. Ventral whitish. In-- 

 olive. Length 60 mm. 




1916.] NATURAL S< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Adult male similar, except black on dorsal broken into numerous 

 small rounded spots, and caudal base slightly mottled. Lower fins 

 whitish. Length 48 mm. 



A largo female is uniform dark olive above, and paler or whitish 

 below. Fins all paler. Dorsal blotched with black in front al base, 

 and behind basally with some small black dots. Altogether a series 

 of six examples, and all show a Mark dorsal blotch. 



No orange -pot- on the scales are mentioned for Platypcecilus 

 tropicus Meek and Pcedlia tenuis Meek. Under M. sphenops Regan 

 says, 1 "often a dark -pot, on each scale of side of body" in female, 

 and in male "spots <»n sides rarely present." 



Cichlasoma spilurus I 



Head 2f; depth 2\ to 2f; I). W II. in. i: A. \ III or l\. 8, i: 

 snoul 2\ to 2\ in head; eye 3§ to f: maxillary •'!', to 5; interorbital 

 2\ to :;;. In the -mall example general color olivaceous, with nine 

 vertical darker bars wider than interspaces along hack and sides 

 above, fifth little enlarged medianly a- jet-black blotch, and last 

 caudal base similar. Fin- all grayish, ventral brownish along front 

 edge. The larger example is obscure brownish generally, tinged with 

 moss-green on soft dorsal, anal, caudal, pectoral and sides of head. 

 Eight vertical dusky-brown bars, little broader than interspaces, 

 fourth and last black and greatly pronounced. Spinous dorsal, 

 anal and front ventral edge dusky, rest of fin like hack. In- slaty. 

 Lower lip pale. Two examples, 70 and nil mm. Ion-. 



Cichlasoma alfari Meek 



Head 2\ to 2\\ depth 2\ to 2\\ l>. X\ II or Will, in or 11; 

 A. VII. 8 or !»: scales 20 or 21 in upper 1.1. '.» tubes in young), and 

 8 to 12 in lower I.I. :; tubes in young ; snoul '_". to ;;; in head; eye 

 :; to;;'; maxillarj :;'. to l; interorbital '-" Color in alcohol 



brownish above, paler to whitish below. Snout with grayish tinge. 

 A number of rut her large gray-blue -pot- on preorbital region, 



cheek, and opercles. I )u-kv -treak from eye to -upra-capula. along 



side of body to caudal base above, ending in Mack pale-edged ocellus 

 aboul -i/.e of pupil. Six I. road transverse dusky-olive hand- i 

 dark lateral streak, each much wider- than interspaces. Behind 

 pectoral chirk hand broken regularly by pale vertical interspa 

 first and penultimate resulting dark blotches especially dark or 

 blackish. Costal region with pale round median spol on each 

 and hmd edge of each scale also with dark vertical bar. Vertical 



Pi / - London, I'M:;, p 1013 




39 1 PRO< bboinos oi Jin. u \i>i.\n oi [June, 



tin- grayish on outer portion-, brownish basally, with obscurely 

 mottled appearance on spinous dorsal. Last membranes of -"it. 

 dorsal and anal with few small pale gray spots, also similar spots on 

 middle of caudal. Pectoral gray. Ventral whitish, gray-brown on 

 front outer portion, hind edges white, hi- neutral tint. In the 

 young examples edge of spinous dorsal and front upper edge of soft 

 dorsal maroon-color, fins blotched lengthwise with darker olive. 

 Several pale spots at bases of last dorsal and anal rays. Front 

 ventral edge and lower anal edge broadly gamboge. 

 Lengl h 33 to 100 mm. 



Bufo valliceps Wiegmann. 



Pour example-, snout to venl 26 to 1<> mm. 



Hyla bocourti Mocquard). 



Eead little longer than wide. Snout rounded, little longer than 

 eye. Canthus rostralis distinct. Loreal region slightly oblique and 

 concave. Tongue ovoid, slightly emarginate behind. Vomerine 

 Teeth in two small slightly oblique group- between choanse. Inter- 

 orbital little wider than upper eyelid. Tympanum distinct, nearly 

 half diameter of eye. Skin weakly though finely granular above, 

 belly and lower femoral region coarsely granular, Fingers very 

 slightly webbed at liases. Toe- two-thirds webbed, and disks half 

 size of Tympanum. Distinct fold along inner tarsal edge. Gray- 

 brown above paler or whitish beneath, in alcohol. Dull brownish 

 oli-cure interorbital bar, and similar band from each upper eyelid 

 down back to vent, with narrow vertebral separation. More con- 

 trasted dark brown hand from each side of snout tip back to eye, 

 including tympanum and ending in groin, and narrow whitish line 

 along n- entire upper edge. Length, from snoul to vent, 17 mm. 



It resembles Hyla eximia Baird in having the dark lateral hand 

 from snout to groin. It differs in the obscure dark dorsal hand 

 each side of the vertebral line and the toes better webbed. 



Eleutherodactylu8 humeralis sp. dov. Fin 2. 



Body well depressed, elongately ovoid in contour as seen from 

 above, and width slightly greater than length of head. Latter very 

 broad, well depressed. Snout flattened above, and contour as seen 

 from above broadly triangular, tip obtuse. Canthus rostralis 

 distinct. Loreal region level and oblique. Eye moderate, about 

 ngth of snout, or equal to -pace between front eye edge and 

 nostril. Mouth large, rictus falling about opposite hind edge of eye. 

 hip- moderate. Maxillary teeth uniserial, conic mostly uniform. 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



Vomerine teeth in two large patches, rather closely approximated, 

 oblique, and behind hind edges of choanae. Tongue broadly ovoid, 

 last third free, and hind edge generally convex, except slight median 

 emargination. Choanae smaller than vomerine patches of teeth. 

 Interorbital flattened, upper eyelid \ its width. Tympanum ellip- 

 soid, f eye-diameter. 



Skin largely smooth, a few granules around vent and post-femoral 

 region. No distinct fold across throat or bn 



/•.'/. ui/u rodadylut hutm rai I 



Limbs all slender. Fingers free and only outer toes (-third 



webbed Firsl finger little longer than second, and slightly swollen 

 basally. Third finger longest. Tubercles <>n phal pparentl} 



well developed. I )isk& on toec and fingers moderately small, rounded, 

 apparently nol quite half sura of tympanum. Toes Blender, fourth 

 much longest. Apparently no i.-ir-;il fold, though hind tubercle 

 distinct. 



1 »lor in alcohol pale gray-brown generally above, lower 




pro< ii dings of the \< \i>i.\n of [June, 



• Iv uniform whitish. < >n upper surface of snout two small 



blackish rings, Dear canthus rostralis and midway in snout length. 

 (>u each scapular region two similar ones. Narrow dusky streak or 

 line across interorbital from one eyelid to the other. Dusky-Mack 

 band from each side of snoul I ip back below eye including tympanum 

 shoulder. Several obscure dusky small circles form irregular 

 • lark triangle on trout of pelvis above. Each joint of lore limlis with 

 ral obscure brownish transverse bars, one of which, with black 

 blotch, on each ulna and humerus. Hind limits with three <>r more 

 similar obscure cross-bars, outer surface of femur near knee with 

 three more or less connected blackish blotches. Both outer and 

 inner v(\<+<- of hind limbs, including tibia, tarsus and metatarsus, 

 dusky. Lips mottled with brownish. 



I.' Dgth, from snout tip to vent, 33 nun. 



Type, No. 19,593, A. X. S. P. Guapilis, Costa Rica. July, 1915. 

 D. E. Harrower. 



This species appears closely related to E. bocourti (Brocchi), 2 but 

 differs in several respects. E. bocourti has the partly circular tongue 

 entire, the tympanum one-third the eye, first and second fingers of 

 Dearly equal length, toes with a rudimentary web, and arms and 

 legs marbled with brown above. 



(Humeralis, with reference to the dark blotches on the humerus 

 near the knee.) 



Dendrobates tinctorum Keferetein). 



One example dull crimson-purple above, variegated with darker 

 marking., A -mall one beautiful dark crimson, marked with blackish 

 dots on the back and head above. Its lower surface is blotched with 

 blackish. Another larger example buff in general tint, marked or 

 speckled with blackish above, and upper surface of hind limbs, and 

 lower surface of same, blackish. Throat and belly pale buff, with 

 few scattered dusky specks. Altogether four, 13 to 22 mm., measured 

 from snout to vent. 



Eana caeruleopunctata Steindachner. 



Color in alcohol dark olive on back, with obscure small rounded 

 dull dark bluish -pot- down middle from between eyes to vent. 

 Blackish band begins on each side of snout near tip, extends back 

 below eye. broaden-, includes tympanum and continues to groin, 

 <<\x<-(\ very narrowly above its whole extent with whitish line. From 



*Hyloda bocourti Brocchi, Mise, 8c. Mex. Batr., 187 , 50, PI. 10, fig. -'. 

 ( 'oban, < iuatemala. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



below eye to shoulder distinct broader white line forms part of 

 lower margin. Dusky hand from fore part of shoulder on front of 

 forearm. Front limbs brownish, blotched with darker, and brown 

 3treak along entire hind edges. Hind limbs brownish above, each 

 with two or three dusky cross-bars on upper surfaces. Hind surface 

 of each femoral region above with two large golden blotches, lower 

 surface mostly whitish and immaculate. Throat, breast and belly 

 mottled brownish-dusky. Glandular fold scarcely developed. 

 Length, snout tip to vent, 28 nun. 



( 'iiiKKiro Riveb Valley. 

 A few specimens were obtained in this region during late July. 



Phryniscus varius Keferetein). 



( Jolor when fresh brillianl moss-green, marked with bright chrome- 

 yellow spots on hack and cross-bars on upper surfaces of limbs. 

 Lower surface of body pah- yellowish, marked with slaty blotches and 

 irregular splotches or bands. 



Another example also brighl green above, finely speckled with 

 blackish, yellow blotches edged with dusky, and sides slaty-gray. 

 I fader surface pale yellowish-white with irregular slaty-gray blotches, 

 more sharply defined on lower femoral region. 



A third example black above with brighl cadmium-orange blotches 

 from behind eye on sides and upper surfaces of limbs. Middle 

 haek with -mall chrome-yellow -peeks. Lower surface of head and 

 line above upper lip chrome-yellow, throat with several large black 

 blotches. Under surface of head black, like back marked with 



chrome-yellow blotches. 



Length -il to 11 mm., from snoul tip to vent. 



Oxybelis acuminatus (Wied 



< me example, 392 mm. 



Port Limon. 



\ more representative collection was gathered during July and 

 August than el ewhere in Costa Rica during this trip. Tin- t: 

 were all obtained from fishermen or in the mark 



Albula vulpes I tan! 



< me, 1 1~ mm. long. 



Sardinella humeralis Valsncienm 



Pour examples, 1 15 to 120 nun. 



Opiithonema oglinum (Li s,„,,,, 



One, 190 mm. 




16 PBOCBRDINGS OP TIIK A.CADBMY OF [June, 



8comberomoru9 cavalla (Caviar). 



Two, L27 to L95 nun. 



Caranx crysos (Mitehili). 



( toe, 12~> nun. 



Caranx latus AgMWi 



One, <>7 nun. Head 3; depth 2\; scutes 35; snout 3| in bead; 

 eye 3|; maxillary 2 ,'„ ; interorbital 3|; curved part of lateral line 

 If in straighl portion. Opercular spot obsolete. Narrow naked 

 area medianly on front, of breast. 

 Vomer setapinnis (Mitehili). 



Two, 122 and 131 mm. 



Chloroscombrus chrysurus (Linn6). 



Four, 118 to 1-40 mm. 



Traohinotus glaucus 'Blochl. 



One, 128 mm. 



Trachinotus argenteus Valenciennes 



Head 31 : depth 2; D. I, VT-I, 23; A. II-I, 21; snout 4 in head; 

 eye Z\; maxillary 2\; interorbital 2|. Body deep, compressed. 

 Head compressed. Snout broadly convex, length half its width. 

 Eye large, adipose-eyelid rather well developed. Maxillary reaches 

 about opposite first third in eye. Teeth fine, conic, in narrow band 

 above ami in broad band below. Mouth rather small, lower jaw 

 much -horter. Nostrils together on middle of front surface of 

 snout. Interorbital high, convex. Rakers about 6 + 10, lanceolate, 

 about 7 of eye. Scales small. Lateral line complete, slightly wavy 

 in front. Last dorsal spine longest. Soft dorsal with distinct lobe 

 in front, and when depressed reaches § in total length of fin. Soft 

 anal also with short front lobe, when depressed § total length of 

 fin. Caudal strongly forked, tip of each lobe sharp, and an eye- 

 diameter longer than head. Pectoral \\ in head. Ventral shorter, 

 2| in head. Color in alcohol grayish above, sides and below silvery- 

 white. Front lobe of soft dorsal dusky, also outer edge of upper 

 caudal lobe, fin- otherwise whitish. Iris whitish. Length 135 mm. 



Tin- little-known fish differs from T. carolinus (LinneV), when exam- 

 ples of tip same size are compared, in the larger eye, more pointed 

 sal, anal and caudal lobes, blackish tip of dorsal lobe and dusky 

 - to caudal lobes. 



Pomadasis ramosua (Poey). 



Two, 150 and 180 mm. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 399 



Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean. 



Two, 110 mm. 



Gerres olisthostomus Goode and Bean. 



Three, 96 to 188 mm. 



Larimus breviceps Cuvier. 



Two, 128 and 130 mm. 



Polydactylus virginicus I.inne). 



Two, 190 and 205 mm. 



Cichlasoma maculicauda Regan. 



Two, 10") ami 152 mm. 

 Hyla punctariola Peters. 



Head long as broad. Snout triangular, little longer than eye. 

 Canthus rostralis distinct. Loreal region level, oblique. Tongue 

 ovoid, last third free, hind edge slightly emarginate. Vomerine 

 teeth in two -mall slightly oblique groups, well separated, and close 

 behind choanse. Interorbital little wider than upper eyelid. Tym- 

 panum obscure, apparently slightly less than half of eye. >kin 

 smooth above, also on throat. Belly and lower femoral region 

 granular. Fingers entirely free. Inner toes slightly webbed basally. 

 I Hsks about half of eye. Several metatarsal tubercles and one al 

 heel. Light buff-brown on back and upper surfaces of limbs, which 

 r with obscure cross-blotches or spots. Supraorbital width 

 darker brown than resl ol upper surface of head. Upper lip white- 

 edged. Lower surface of body creamy-white, under a lens seen to 

 be marked most everywhere with minute yellowish dots. Disks all 

 whitish. Length, from snoul tip to vent, 27 mm. 



Eleutherodactylus polyptychus I 



Greal variation in color i- noticeable in the seven examples from 

 this locality. The largest brownish down middle <>\ hack, streaked 

 irregularly on tubercles with dusky. Head brown above, upper 

 lip with -hort dark streaks. Limbs brownish above, front pair 

 paler, and hind pair each uiih three or four dusky cross-bars on 

 femur, tibia, tarsus and metatarsus. Lower surface of bod} and 

 sides whitish, latter funned in contrast as brown streak continues 

 back from eye including tympanum and fades out on front sid< 

 belly. Several of the larger examples -how a ruddy tinge on the 

 Femoral Burface closing against the mom and inner surf aces of femur 

 and tibia. Smaller examples all present less striking color-patten^, 

 especially on Bides, which only -lightly paler. In all dark cross-bars 



OB hind limbs conspicuous. One small example Bh0W8 narrow pa!'- 




1011 proi i EDINGS OF mi. \< LDBM1 01 |.)um\ 



vertebral line. Another has blackish streak from eye over shoulder 

 very pronounced. Largest example 23 mm., measured from snoul 

 tip to vent, smallesl 9. 



Dendrobates tinctorum Keferstrin 



Six examples, all uniform dark purplish-black in alcohol. Length 

 20 to 22 nun., measured from snout tip to vent. 



Eublepharis dovii Boulenger. 



Two examples, 80 to 1'27 mm. 



Anolis lunifrons ' 



Dewlap little developed, and sides of neck crimson. Nine exam- 

 ples, 80 to 127 mm. 



Anolis insignis Cope. 



One. 220 mm. 



Anolis capito P< 



Two. 80 to 202 mm. 



Anolis humilis P 



Five, 38 to 65 mm. 



Ameiva festiva (Lichtenatein). 



One, 238 mm. 



Ameiva undulata quadrilineata (Hallowell). 



Two. 170 and 182 mm. long. These represent Ameiva gabbiana 

 ( lope, merged in the synonymy of the present species by Dr. Bou- 

 Lenger. They vary slightly. The single enlarged rounded preanal 

 plate l- present. Scales in middle of throat but slightly enlarged, 

 and collar with an enlarged plate each side of median line. Humeral 

 scutes in one row. Great variation is also seen in the scutes on top 

 of the head. In one example the frontonasal is not in contact with 

 tin- posteronasal, as a small scale intervenes. Scales in the supra- 

 orbital semicircles and at occiput quite variable. Some blackish 

 • lots on throat. 



THE CANAL ZONE. 



The collections from this section were obtained at Colon, Gatun, 

 Pedro Miguel, Empire and Panama, and are from both Atlantic 

 and Pacific drainages. 



Colon. 



Only marine fishes were obtained at this locality. A number of 

 smaller speci<- were collected on the reef at Torro Point, in the 

 Caribbean, during July, in which case the locality is given. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHI \. Wl 



Rhinobatos percellens Walbaum). 



One, agreeing with an example from Trinidad. 



Tarpon atlanticus Valenciennes). 



Small one, 107 mm. long. 



Sardinella humeralis (Valencieni 



On.-. 100 mm. 



Opisthonema oglinum 



Three, 80 to 90 mm. lonn \ - • three from Torro Point., 57 to 

 85 mm. long. All have median caudal ray- dusky and row of 'lark 



-pot- on -i'k back from gill-opening. 



Anchovia gilberti Evennann and Mar.-h. 



< hie example, 1 18 mm. 



Hyporhamphus unifasciatus (Banzani). 



Two. 156 and 166 mm. Lower caudal lobe slightly longer than 

 upper. 



Sphyraena barracuda Walbaum). 



I me, kin nun. long, from Torro Point. 

 8phyraena guachancho Cuvier. 



( me example, 168 mm. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. 



< Me- small example from Torro Point. 



Holooentrus adscensionis (Osbeek). 

 t)n<\ L53 nun. long. 



Holocentrus siccifer I 



< me from Torro Point differs from the type, as figured by me, in 

 the black marking on the firsl two membranes of the spinous doi 

 entirely of thai color, except tin- narrowly whitish base. All other 

 membranes of spinous dorsal dusky to blackish, especially basally. 

 Length 52 mm. 



Scomberomorus cavall .-. I 



1 our, largesl 1 18 mm. in length. 



Caranx hippos I 



Two examples, 150 and 165 mm. 



Caranx cryiot MitchiU). 



I Mp . L32 mm. long. 



Vomer letapinnit \Iu<hill>. ' 



Two, 123 and 183 nun. 




102 PRO< BBDINGfi OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jun< 



Chloroscombru* chrysurus (Iinn4). 



One. 140 mm. long. 



8eserinu8 paru (IinnQ. 



Onr. L38 nun. 

 C«ntropomus undecimalis iBloeh). 



< me, 254 mm. 



Rypticus arenatus Cuvisr. 



One, 130 mm. 



Lutianus apodus (Walbaum). 



One. 126 mm. long. Also two from Torro Point, 42 and 48 mm 



Rhomboplites aurorubens (Cuvier). 



One, 160 mm. 



Haemulon parra (Desmarest). 



One, 145 mm. 



Haemulon plumieri (Lacepdde). 



Two, 133 and 142 mm. 



Haemulon flavolineatum I Desmarest). 



One, 140 mm. 



Brachygenys chrysargyreus (Gilnther). 



Two, 143 and 152 mm. 



Pomadasis ramosus (Poey). 



One, 128 mm. 



Orthopristis scapularis Fowler. 



One, 170 mm. long. 



Archosargus unimaculatus (Bloch). 



One, 120 mm. 



IsopiBthu8 harroweri *p. aav. Fig. 3. 



Head 31; depth 4|; D. VIII-I, n, 16, i; A. II, i, 18; P. in, 16; 

 V. I, 5; scales 105 in series just above lateral line to caudal base; 

 16 scales above lateral line to soft dorsal origin; 16 scales below 

 lateral line to anal origin; about 48 scales before spinous dorsal 

 origin; about 60 pores in lateral line to caudal base, and about 40 

 more pores over caudal fin; head width 2f in its length; head depth 

 at occiput If; third dorsal spine 2\; first branched dorsal ray 2\; 

 first branched anal ray 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal 

 If; pectoral \\; ventral If; snout 4 in head, measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 4|; maxillary 2\; interorbital 'i\. 



Body elongate, slender, well compressed, edges mostly convex 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



and rather long occipital keel from occipital process slightly tren- 

 chant. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth I4 its length. 



Head well compressed, upper profile concave over eye, otherwisi 

 convex, and lower profile steeply inclined convexly. Flattened 

 sides of head approximated below. Snout convex, 30 that tip of 

 upper jaw level with upper eye edge, length 1 its width. Eye large, 

 rather high, little longer than deep, well anterior. Mouth Large, 

 greatly inclined, and lower jaw strongly protruding. Maxillary 



odfi hack opposite middle of eye. Teeth large, conic, and 



depressible in outer series in upper jaw. which also with one enlarged 



fang-like canine in front, and all along inner edges hand of fine teeth. 

 Lower teeth erect, firm, conic, several enlarged along -ides of jaw-. 

 though between them also single row of -mall simple teeth. Tongue 



Kin. ■'?. — Isopisthue harrowen Fowler. 



long, smooth, \v<-<-. rounded iii front. Mandible convex over surl 

 capable of great dilation. Nostrils together, close before and slightly 

 above upper edge of eye. [nterorbital convex. Suprascapula jagged 

 and hind edge uotched. Opercle with large angular membranous 

 flap behind. Hind preopercular edge with membranous edge, 

 uotched finely. 



< rill-opening extends forward about opposite front nostril. Rakers 

 i\. 1-1-8, iv, lanceolate, j in eye. Filaments about long a- rakers, 

 [sthmus oarrowl} and deeply trenchant. 



Scales -mall, cycloid, more or lest irregularly disposed, and verj 

 loosely adherent. Head scaly, about 6 row- on cheek. * m trunk 

 scales smaller and with more crowded appearance <»n median dorsal 

 line, about bases of dorsals and caudal. Rather large scales forming 




ID1 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CADEM? OF [June, 



Bheath along anal base. Sof1 dorsal and anal mostly covered with 

 inconspicuous small scales. Lateral line complete, nearly concurrent 



with dorsal profile. Tubes double on each scale, rather large. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer origin of Boft dorsal than 

 hind eye edge, third spine longest, second and fourth subequal, ami 



depressed tin extend- f to soft dorsal. Latter inserted mid\va\ 

 between hind preopercle edge and caudal base, first, branched ray 

 highest, and fin extends | to caudal Lase. Anal inserted close behind 

 Boft dorsal origin, little larger, similar. Caudal double truncate, 

 median rays longest and form point. Pectoral long, pointed upper 

 median rays longest, reach I to anal. Ventral inserted little behind 

 pectoral origin, and fin half way to anal origin. 



( Jolor in alcohol brownish-olive above, sides and lower surface 

 silvery-white. Head olivaceous above, whitish below. Large dusky 

 nebulous blotch on opercle. Dorsals and caudal dull olive, pectoral 

 paler. Ventrals yellowish, tinged with orange basally. Anal pale 

 yellowish, lower edge narrowly dusky. 



Length 174 mm. 



Type, No. 45,236, A. X. S. P. Colon, Canal Zone. D. E. Harrower. 



Related to Isopisthus parvipinnis (Valenciennes) ; which would 

 differ in having more dorsal rays (21 instead of 16) and fewer anal 

 rays (16 or 17 instead of 18), fewer pores in the lateral line (52 to 54 

 instead of 00), and in having an indistinct elongate dark blotch from 

 behind the eye to the middle of the opercle. 



Named for Mr. D. E. Harrower, who collected the type.) 



Cyno8cion jamaicensis (Vaillant and Bocourt 



One, 145 mm. 



Larimus breviceps C'uvier. 



Two examples, 114 and 158 mm. 



Conodon nobilis (Liim6). 



< »!)<•, 110 mm. 

 Umbrina coroides Valenciennes. 



Two, 164 and 182 mm. 



Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean. 



Two, 05 and 1 17 mm. 

 Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. 



One, 1 15 mm. 



Polydactylus virginicu.3 [Linn*) 



< toe, 196 mm. 




1911).] NATURAL S< CENl ES OF PHILADELPHIA.. 405 



Abudefduf mauritii Rlochi. 



Three from the reef at Torro Point, 34 to K) mm. 

 Eupomacentrus fuscus CValendeni 



Ten from the Torro Point reef. Three which are young have a 

 black ocellus at the base of sofl dorsal in front, a Mack Baddle-like 

 blotch on the upper surface of the caudal peduncle, and a black 

 axillary pectoral blotch. Length 31 to 95 mm. 



Iridio bivittatus Bloch] 



Young example from the reef at Torro Point, 26 mm. in length. 



Pomacanthus arcuatus d.inne). 



One example. 114 nun. long. The transverse bands are bright 

 lemon-yellow. 



Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). 



One. 145 mm. Long. 



Hepatus caeruleus (Schneid 



I me, 100 mm. long. 



Hepatus hepatus (Linn6). 



Two. 1 12 and 1 15 mm. long. 



Hepatus bahianus (Castolnau). 



< »ne. 145 mm. long. Hind caudal edge narrowly whitish. 



Spheroides testudineus (Linn6). 



I me, 132 mm. long. 



Philypnus dormitor (LactpMe). 



One. 12.3 inin. long from the yn-\ at Torn. Point. 



Dormitator maculatus (Bloch). 



< me, 7s mm. long. 



Mapo soporator (ValeocieDni 



Seven examples from the reef at Torro Point, 36 to 67 mm. long. 



Rupiscartes atlanticus [ Yalonninnim) 



< me from the Torro Point reef, 70 mm. long. 



Ogilbia cayorum Branunn tnd fffdf II 



One from Torro Point reef, 7'J mm. long. 



Cithanchthys arenaceus Bwmuui ud Mir-.li 



I me, L33 mm. long. 



G ATI N 



\ small collection of fresh-water fishes, amphibians and lisaVda 

 from tin- locality, 




W6 PRO( EBDIN(;> of nil, \CADKMY OF |.Iuiie. 



Brycon striatulus (Kaer). 



Four examples, 65 to 83 mm. 



Astyanax aeneus (Qonther). 

 Two. 98 to 103 nun. 

 Mollienisia sphenops (Valenciennes). 



A large Belies of all ages (33 examples), 29 to 52 nun. 



Acara ooeruleopunctata Knei and Steindaehner. 



Fourteen, 17 to 82 mm. 



Cichlasoma maculicauda Rogan. 



Nine examples, all small, about 53 mm. Also large one, 258 mm. 

 long. 



Bufo marinus (I.inn6). 



Two, 43 to 52 mm., from snout tip to vent. 



Bufo typhonius (I.inne). 



One, with dark broad vertebral band, 32 mm. from snout tip to 

 vent. 



Eleutherodactylus nubilus (Gonther). 



Two examples, 13 to 28 mm. from snout tip to vent. 



Anolis trochilus Cope. 



Four examples, 111 to 125 mm. in total length. 

 Corythophanes cristatus (Merrem). 



One, 240 mm. 



Enyalioides heterolepis (Bocoun). 



One found around rocks near a stream. Length 212 mm. 



Ameiva ruthveni Barbour and Noble. 



This is represented by one example, 283 mm. long. It differs in 

 several respects from the original account. As there is a group of 

 five anterior supraoculars, with the second largest, the frontal is in 

 contact with the second, third, fourth, and very slightly the fifth, 

 supraoculars. No intercalated pair of scales between outer pair 

 of large oceipitals and frontoparietals. The two posterior supra- 

 ocular- arc separated from the superciliaries by narrow wedges of 

 granules, in three or four rows behind. About ten large scales in 

 middle of chin, posteriorly one enlarged twice size of any other-. 

 From frontal, down middle of back and tail anteriorly, narrow pale 

 streak. Length 283 mm. 



Apparently very closely related to Ameiva festiva, of which I have 

 compared example- from Colombia and Nicaragua, which agree with 

 my Port Limon example. 




1916.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 407 



Pedro Miguel. 



Ehamdia montagueusis (Giinther). 



One example, 145 mm. 



Piabucina panamensis GDI. 



Three. 93 to 105 mm. Active and difficult to secure. 



Aatyanax mexicanus (Filippi). 



Four examples, 67 to 72 mm. 



Poeciliopsis retropinna (Regan). 



< me example, a female, 30 mm. long. 



Bufo marinus (I.iune). 



One, 45 mm. long, measured from snout to vent, with three tick- 

 on its ba«k. 



Bufo typhonius (Linne). 



Twn small examples which agree with Ecuador material. Length 



31 and 32 mm. from snout tip to vent. 



Leptodactylus caliginosus (Girard). 



Vomerine teeth in two closely approximated areas. Eye half 

 length of snout. Nostril near first third in snoul length. Tym- 

 panu eye. Skin smooth, except hind femoral region posteri- 



orly, which granular. Slighl fold extend- from shoulder to groin. 

 Color in alcohol gray-brown generally. Broad blackish triangle 

 between eyes. Black band from each side ot snoul back, including 

 eye and tympanum, to shoulder, and posteriorly continued as several 

 disconnected black spots. <m each side of back, from above tym- 

 panum to groin above, black band. Middle of back with lengthwise 

 blackish blotches forming two distincl series on pelvic region. Groin 

 olive-yellow, with few dark cloudings. Fore limbs marbled witl 

 dusky, forming a large blotch at and behind elbow. Hind limbs 

 mottled m more contrast with dusky, femoral and tibial regions 

 with several broad dark blotches as cross-bars. Tarsi and raetatars 

 dusky, outer surfaces mottled or blotched with darker. Under 

 surface whitish, lip- mottled with grayish. Length 86 and '.»l mm., 

 measured from snout tip to vent. Localit} given as Corosal. 



Iguana tuberculata Laurent! 



Two young examples, -17 and 251 mm. 



Basiliscus basiliscus 



A female, containing eggs. Length 167 mm. 




HIS PROCEEDINGS OF mi. ICADBMY <>k [June, 



Ameiva ameiva praesignis (Baird and GirardV 



Color in alcohol largely greenish-brown on back. Yellow line 

 each side of back extends from eye, and another similar, though 

 white line from lower edge of eye to groin, interspace jet-black with 

 row of obscure whitish spots. Black band also continued along 

 side of tail at first, fading out behind. Tail brownish above, mottled 

 with dusky. Below lower white lateral line, which mosl pronounced, 

 gray shade and clouded with dusky or blackish. Under surface of 

 head and trunk gray-white. Upper surface brown. >ide> whitish. 

 Limits brownish above reticulated with black, forming two broad 

 black lengthwise line- on hind femoral region and upper continued 

 at first along tail basally short space, gradually fading behind. 



( me example. 255 mm. 

 Leptodeira polysticta GOnther. 



One. differing a little from Giinther's figure in not having a distinct 

 lengthwise dark bar dividing the neck, but with a lengthwise dark 

 brown saddle-like blotch, pale in the middle. Length 170 mm. 



Elaps fulvius (Linne). 



Two examples, -502 and 528 mm. 



Empire. 



Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis Cope. 



Two examples, 15 mm., measured from snout tip to vent. 



Anolis trochilus Cope. 



One example, 83 mm. long. 



Anolis lionotus I 



Three, 70 to 158 mm. 

 Norops auratus 'Daudin). 

 Three, 114 to lbl mm. 



Panama. 



The fishes of Panama Bay have been elaborately treated by 

 Profs. C. H. Gilbert and E. C. St arks in 1905, so that the list here 

 given is only supplementary. 



Tachisurus steindachneri Gilbert and Starks. 



Bead 3| to 31; depth 4f to 5J; D. 1,6 and I, 7; A. vi, 13 and 13? 



snout 2f to 2| in head; eye 5^ to b\;. mouth width 2f to 3; inter- 

 orbital 2|; dorsal -pine 1 -, to I 1 ,. Palatine teeth coarsely granular, 

 without a backward angle extending on inner edge. Granulations 

 or Btria on head extend forward nearly opposite middle of eyes. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Fontanel extends back as narrow groove to occipital plate. Inner 

 surfaces of ventral black, front edge of tin white. Pectoral similarly 

 blackish inside. Upper caudal lobe little longer. Two examples, 

 200 and 210 mm. long. They differ slightly from the figure given 

 by Gilbert and Starks in the stria 1 on top of the head extending more 

 distinctly forward. 



Muraena clepsydra Gilbert. 



( me, 595 mm. long. 



Poeciliopsis presidionis (Jordan and Culver). 



Male and female, 23 and :>7 mm. 

 Tylosurus scapularis Jordan and Gilbert. 



Caudal peduncle about wide as deep, and lateral line forms slight 

 though inconspicuous keel along each side. Eye 7 in upper jaw, 

 :; in postocular pan. of head. Upper jaw nearly an eye-diameter 

 longer than lower, and not completely closing against lower pos- 

 teriorly, so that distinct interval i< seen between them. I), n, 14; 

 A. ii. 15. Upper surface of body greenish in alcohol, especially <>n 

 head. Side- and below -ilvery-whit e. Narrow lateral Land of 



leaden, tapering or narrowed at shoulder and caudal base, and more 

 or less expanded behind. Iris silvery-white. Fins all pale. Length 



695 n mi. 



Holocentrus suborbitalis GUI. 



Three example-, 87 to 90 mm. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. 



Fourteen small examples, largest L22 mm. 



Caranx hippos (Linnel 



Two. 1 1 1 and 1 75 mm. 



Caranx caballus ' 



i me, 160 nun. long. 



Vomer setapinnis (MitchUI). 



Two. 172 and L82 mm. 



Centropomui unionensis B 



< >ne example, L35 mm. 



Alphesteg multiguttatui (Gonthi 



Two. 147 and 172 mm. Pectoral with at least five distinct dark 

 vertical cross-bars. 



Dipleotrum radial* 



< me, 190 nun. ( 'ailed " -and mul I 




HO PROCEEDINGS OF THE A< \l>i\n OF [Jane, 



Rypticus nignpinnis *iiU. 



Two small examples, 48 ami 4"> nun. 



Xenichthyg xanti QUI. 



( toe, 162 mm. 



Lythrulon flaviguttatum (Cill). 



Two, 1 1<> and 148 mm. 



Anisotremus interruptus (Gill). 



Pour young, 30 to 54 mm. 



Anisotremus taeniatus GilL 



One example, 143 mm. long. 



Bairdiella ronchus (Valenciennes). 



Head 2|; depth 3f; D. X-I, n, 25; A. II, 8: scales 46 in lateral 

 line to caudal base; snout 3 1 in head; eye 4|; maxillary 2\ ; inter- 

 orbital 4. Snout convexly protruding in upper profile. Lower jaw 

 slightly projects. Lower teeth mostly uniserial, enlarged, conic. 

 Symphyses! knob distinct, surmounted by two canines. Eye little 

 shorter than snout. Preopercle denticles small, larger one below 

 directed forward. Second anal spine 2| in head. One example, 

 178 mm. long. 



■Eucinostomus califomiensis (Gill). 

 One, 83 mm. 



Gerres peruvianus Valenciennes. 



Three, 75 to 85 mm. 



TJpeneu8 grandisquamis GUI. 



Four examples, 117 to 164 mm. 



Acara caeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner. 



< toe, 148 mm. 



Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch). 



- riea of all ages which appear to agree with the Atlantic form. 

 Length 38 to 102 mm. 



Abudefduf declivifrons (Gill). 



< toe example, 07 mm, 



Pseudoscarus perrico (.Ionian and Gilbert). 



illed "parrot chub." Color in alcohol dusky-brown generally. 

 Blue-green spots radiate around eye. Jaw- greenish. Vertical 

 fins livid dull dusky-purple, edges of dorsals and anals narrowly 

 blue-green. Dusky blotch at pectoral base, fin pale. Outer ventral 

 <-d<:i- pah-, rays brownish. Iri> yellowish. Length 20G mm. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Hepatus crestonis Jordan and Stark.-. 



Head 3|; depth If; D. IX, 25; A. III. 24; snout \\ in bead; eye 

 4; interorbital 2|; pectoral l, 1 ,,. In alcohol Largely uniform dark 

 chocolate-brown. Dorsals ami anals blackish. Caudal slightly 

 paler basally. Pectoral with broad whitish submargina] shade. 

 Length 103 nun. 



Chaetodon humeralis (Gflnther). 



One example, 124 mm. Jordan and Evermann state "3 dark 

 hand- across caudal peduncle at base of fin; caudal fin with a faint 

 band; ventral- dark." My example shows but a single dark trans- 

 verse bar <>ii caudal peduncle at caudal base and caudal fin with two 

 very sharply contrasted blackish vertical bars Blightly expanded me- 

 dianly. and anterior much wider than any of bars on caudal. The 

 ventral- are whitish with two very indistincl vertical gray bars. 



Pomacanthus zonipectus 'Gill). 



Head 3f; depth 1:; I). \1. 25 : A. III. 21: snout 3 in head; eye 



interorbital .1. Color faded in alcohol, vertical pale lines whitish. 



Trace- of similarly curved line-, parallel, some irregular in dark 



areas between whitish lines. Also dark areas with numerous small 



obscure blackish spots. Length L25 mm. 



Chaetodipterus zonatus <<iinir.l> 



< me example, 148 mm. 



Balistes vetula Linne. 



Two. LOO and 1<»;; mm. Long. 



Spheroides annulatus 



Two. p.t and 94 mm. long. 4 'hi' dark -pot- are -mailer and more 

 numerous than in Atlantic example- of S. testudiru its <>\ the same -i ■• 



Diodon hystrix I 



Two example-, L22 to 126 mm. 



Scorpxna mystes Jordan u 



Head 2f; depth :',',; I). XII, 10; A. III. 5; scales 39 to caudal 

 base and 2 more on latter, along lateral hue: 7 scales above I.I.; 

 I"- scales in vertical series between l.l. and spinous dorsal origin; 

 -nout :; ' m 1 1 r>; maxillary 2J ; interorbital 5; about 27 pores 



in lateral Line to caudal base. No supraorbital cirrus. Slight pit 

 below front eye edge and suborbital stay. Length 250 mm. 



Mapo soporator \ ilencienm 



Twenty-nine examples, 25 to 122 mm. \ 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \< LDEM1 01 [June, 



Garmanina paradoxa (G Gather). 



Head 3$; depth 4$; D. VII, i, 11, i; A.i.'.i. i: scales 15 in median 

 Beries od hind part of trunk, begin opposite origin of Bof1 dorsal; 

 B - ales transversely between last dorsal and anal rays; Bnoul I'. 

 in head; eye 5$; maxillary 2\; interorbital aboul 11. Gill-rakere 



1+8 short point- with broad bases, much Bhorter than filaments. 

 Color in alcohol pair brownish generally, Bcarcely pain- below. 

 it L3 pairs of deeper brownish transverse bars, from back down 

 along side, and each 2 pairs placed closer to one another, and in 

 places irregularly joined. Bach bar seen to be forked as a darker 

 reticulation around a paler spot, or centre, also reticulation- >.f 

 various extent. Similar dark transverse liar extends down on cheek, 



though narrower one immediately behind eye and another on top of 

 head before gill-opening, not extending down on side of head, [ris 

 with pale circle around pupil. Ventrals blackish, edge narrowly 



whitish. Fins all grayish, clouded or obscurely marked with darker. 

 Length 42 nun. 



Microgobius miraflorensis Gilbert and seirk<. 



One 26 nun. long. Gilbert and Starks give A. 17, though their 



figure shows i. 10. My example lacks the cirri about the jaw- they 



represent, and at present the dark spots on the fins are much more 



contrasted. 



Hypsoblennius striatus (Suindachner). 



Fourteen examples, 46 to 80 nun. 



Batrachoides pacifici (Gunther). 



Two adults, 178 and 222 mm. long. Young examples differ in 

 the absence of scales. 



Gobiesox microspilus -\> nov. Fig t 



Head 2\; depth •">: D. L3; A. 9; P. 25; head width \\ its length; 

 snout \\\; eye 0; mouth width 2\; interorbital 2|; third dorsal ray 

 ;: third anal ray 3f; least depth caudal peduncle 4^; caudal 1 \ ; 

 pectoral 21,. 



Body moderately long, depressed forward, compressed behind, 

 e X above, flattened below, and slight median groove before 

 anal. Caudal peduncle compressed, short and little free. 



I bad lar<rc upper profile convex from snout tip to occiput, lower 

 nearly straight and horizontal. Snout wide, convex over surface, 

 length less than half its width as measured across front of eyes. 

 Eye ellipsoid, high, centre slightly behind firsl third in head length. 

 Eyelids not distinct, -kin of head passing over. Mouth broad, 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF lMlILADLLl'HLV. 



413 



upper jaw .slightly protruding. Lips broad, each fringed with 

 rather long free dermal Haps. Transverse groove of premaxillaries 

 distinct on snout above. Teeth in one row in each jaw, simple, 

 conic two front ones enlarged or canine-like above. Both jaws with 

 anterior teeth little enlarged, and in front of lower more so, com- 

 pressed or incisor-like, their tips rather broadly triangular. Inner 

 buccal folds broad. Tongue broad, fleshy, depressed, free around 

 edges. Nostrils rather close together, above level of eye near its 



front edge, anterior in short fleshy tube and posterior simple pore. 

 [nterorbital broad and slightly convex. < Ipercular -pine not extend- 

 ing through integument, concealed. 



Gill-opening extend- forward aboul opposite lasl i in head. Gill- 

 rakers aboul 6 short rudimentary point-, much shorter than shorl 

 gill-filaments. 



***" 



fefr 





UMSM^MT 



Fig. I G Fowler. 



Skin smooth. A oumber of pores along lower side of head, and 

 aboul fringi - of lips. 



Dorsal inserted about midway between centre of head and caudal 

 base, tips of rays slightly protrude beyond connecting membranes. 

 Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, tin similar. Caudal 

 rounded behind. Pectoral broad, upper rays longer, hind 

 rounded, with free fold in front opposite lower base, and broad flap 

 concealed, behind axilla, extends up from disk. Ih-k large, circular, 

 its length about 1 ', in head. Margins of disk, all for broad extent, 

 finely papillose. Venl before anal, though slightly behind origin 

 of dorsal. 



Color in alcohol dark chocolate-brown, except lower surface 




1 1 1 pbcx ii dings 01 i in: u \ui.\n of [June, 



bead and disk, which whitish. Entire upper surface marked with 

 closely set dusky spots, mostly of uniform size, and all with a more or 

 Less Lengthwise disposition. Black blotch <>n head aboul an eye- 

 diameter behind eye on its Level. From eye dark spots arc darkened. 

 to form obscure streak forward, one below and one behind. Vertical 

 fins Largely dusky or blackish. Dorsal with sub-basal Lengthwise 



whitish streak, one medianly and protruded tips of rays same color. 

 Anal with median lengthwise paler ana. protruded tips of rays 

 whitish. Caudal crossed by three obscure darker bands, tips of rayB 

 whitish. Pectorals brownish. Iris slaty, olive-yellowish circle 

 around pupil. 



Length 37 mm. 



Type, No. 45,213, A. N. S. P. Panama, in a pool. May :;<>. 

 1915. D. E. Harrower. Purchased. 



Only the above example obtained. This species is very closely 

 allied with G. papittifer Gilbert from Lower California. It differs 

 in several respects. G. papillifer has the teeth in both jaws biserial. 

 Its color is also said to be uniform dark olivaceous, and the color of 

 the fin- is different. 



(Mixpos, small: <ntiXo$ } spot; with reference to the coloration.) 



Bufo marinus (Linne). 



Two large examples, 96 to 100 mm. long, measured from snout 

 tip to vent. 



Bufo valliceps Wiegmann. 



Four, 26 to 40 mm. 



Bufo typhonius (Linne). 



One. 21 mm. 



Hyla moquardi Gonther. 



Two. about 20 mm. 



Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis (Cope). 



One, 14 mm. 



Dendrobates tinctorum (Keferetein). 



Four examples, caught in shrubbery. Length 25 to 32 nun. 

 Pelamis bicolor (Schneider). 



One round swimming on the surface. It was hit with an oar ami 

 then captured by a boatman. 




1916.1 NATURAL SI EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



NOTES ON FISHES OF THE ORDERS HAPLOMI AND MICROCYPRINI. 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The present paper is an annotated list of the fishes of the above 

 orders, contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



HAPLOMI. 



ESOCID^E. 

 E80X americanus (Gmelin). 



New York (Long Island); New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; 

 Maryland; North Carolina Catawba River); South Carolina 

 (Pocataliiio River near Manning); Georgia (Thomasville) ; Florida 

 (Volusia . 



Esox vermiculatus Valenciennes. 



E ipho Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., L854, p. 7 s -. Waterford, Oak- 

 land < lounty, Michigan. 



E. pa I >pe, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., 2 XIII, 1866, p H)8 



(in above, cypho regarded in< pi 



No. 7,681, A. N. S. P., type of E. cypho Cope. Waterford, 

 Michigan. 



< >hin (Hicksville : [ndiana (Richmond and Michigan Citj ; 

 Georgia Etowah River); Texas (Beaumont , 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; Maryland; District ot 

 Columbia (Washington : North Carolina (Neuse River); Florida. 



Esox lucius I ■' 



\<u York (Lake George); [ndiana (Wabash River ; Lake Erie; 

 Michigan Kewenah Point); [owa Bornick and Brook Riv< 

 Sweden; Italy. 



Esox masquinongy Mitchill 



Pennsylvania (Lake Conneaut ; Micl gai Saginaw Baj ; Minne- 

 sota Mankato ; « Ontario Sparrow Lai 



UMBRID^E. 

 Umbra liim 



Pennsylvania Meadeville); [llinois Northfield); Michigan Oak- 

 land County); Minm edar Lake, Minneapolii 




1 lt> PRO< EEDINQS OF mi m \m;\n OF [June, 



Umbra pygmsea CDe Kay) 



Niw Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; Maryland; Virginia (Lower 

 James Rr 



MICROCYPRINI. 



PCECILIID.E. 



\- pointed <>ut by Regan, this family embraces several well-defined 

 sub-families. To these several others are Likely valid, ae the Pro- 

 catop ■ ■■ Procatopus), with theventrals placed below the pectorals, 

 ami the Lamprichthyinoe (Lamprichthys) , with ctenoid scales and 

 long anal tin (27 to 30 rays), both off-shoots from the Fundvlince. 

 The Phallostethina (Phallostethus) diverge from the PaeciliincB, 

 with the ventral- modified a- an inti'onhttent organ. 



i ■Txnn.iN i: 



FUNDULUS Lacepdde. 

 GALASACCUS subgen. nov. 



Type Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard. 



Form lather elongate. Snout usually long and conspicuous. 

 Jaws wide, sometimes produced. Sexes usually unlike in coloration, 

 and female often with dark lengthwise lines. Females also without 

 an anal tube on front of anal fin, but in its place basal sheath usually 

 present. No nuptial tubercles or denticles on anal rays of male 

 during -pawning season. 



Hydrargira Lacep&de cannot be used for this group, as its monotype, 

 //. awampina Lacepede, is a synonym of Cobitis heteroclita Linne* 

 and thus a synonym of Fundulus. 



/'"/, milk; aaxxo^ 1 sack; from the vernacular Sac-a-Lait of the 

 typical species.) 



Fundulus similis (Baird and Girard). 



Hydrargira similis Baird ami Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, 

 p, 389. Lndianola, Te? 



Nos. 6,987 and 6,988, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of H. similis Baird and 

 Girard. lndianola, Texas. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Both small examples. 



Miami River (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Boca Chica Key (Fowler) and 

 Carrabelle (M. Hebard), Florida. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Besides the large series of local or Middle Atlantic States specimen-, 

 already recorded, are others from: Florida (Bayport); South Caro- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



lina (Charleston and Hilton Head); Massachusetts Woods Hole, 

 Nantucket and Salem). 

 Fundulus punctatus GOnther. 



Central Guatemala A 'ope). 



Subgenus FDNDULU8 I impede. 



Type /-'unil ul 'is mudfish Lac6pede. 



Form short, robust. Snout short or moderate. Jaws uo1 pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration, females usually paler or uniform. 

 Female with anal tube on first anal ray. Anal rays of male usually 

 with nuptial denticles during the spawning season. 



Fundulus parvipinnis Girard 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. l">t. San Diego, California. 

 No. 7,255, A. X. S. P. Cotype. From the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion (No. 938). 



Fundulus heteroclitus Linne). 



Fort Macon. North Carolina Dr. II. ( '. Yarrow and Charleston, 

 South Caolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook). 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus fWalba 



Besides a very large series from various of the Middle Atlantic 

 States, mo^t of which have been listed, are examples from New 

 York (Hudson River .-it. Piermont, Long Beach, South Long Beach, 

 Nassau on Long Beach and New York Harbor ; Connecticut 

 - ihems Head and Scotts Cove uear Darien); Rhode I -land (New- 

 port : Massachusetts W 1- Hole. Nantucket and Boston 



Fundulus heteroclitus badius Gannon 



Prince Edward [sland and Magdalen Islands, Canada. 1 



Fundulus grandis Baird andGii 



Proc lead N I - Phila., L853, p. 389 Indianola I 



No. 7,420, \ N. S. P. Cotype. .1. II. Clark. From the Smith- 

 sonian [nstit ution No. 650 



Bayport fop. and Carrabelle M. Hebard), Florida. 



Fundulus nisorius • 



Proc \tn'i Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p boot Wesl Africa. 



Head 3 to 3}; depth 3| to I: D. usually i. 11, often i, 10, rarely 

 i. 12; A. usually i. in. often i. !•, r:inl> i. 8 or ill: scales wsuallj 32 

 often :;:;. sometimes 31, •'>! or :;.". m lateral series medianly t<> caudal 

 base, and usually l. rarel) '■'< or •"» re mi latter; snout ■'>' to i in 



\. m. \ \ i .-•• i I'mii \ . 1015, i> 518 




I is PRO< EEDINQB "i i in H \i>i \n 01 [Jiuir, 



head, measured from snout tip; eye 2] to II: maxillary 2\ to 3£; 

 interorbital 2 to -' Bodj rather robust, compressed, more so in 

 male. Head short, obtuse. Snoul depressed, length : ! to | it- 

 width. Eye close to upper profile, centre aear firsl third in head. 

 Mouth moderate, lower jaw obtuse, projects. Teeth conic fine, in 

 bands in jaws, outer row enlarged, [nterorbital flat. Gill-rakers 

 2 or 3 r-9j lanceolate, about half length of filaments. Scales largest 



on top of head, -mailer on breast, belly and caudal base. Lateral 



line complete, inconspicuous, as single small pore on middle of 

 exposure of each scale medianly along side. Dorsal origin little 



nearer caudal base than gill-opening in adult female, much nearer 

 latter in young and adult male. Anal origin about opposite second 

 branched dorsal ray base, fin much higher than dorsal. Female 

 without anal sheath, though with long simple tube, long as first ray. 

 Caudal truncate, rounded eonvexly behind when spread open. 

 Pectoral not quite reaching ventral, latter not to anal. Paired fins 

 still shorter in adult female. Color in alcohol, of male, brownish 

 generally, little paler below. Sides with about fourteen to seventeen 

 narrow vertical bars, less than half width of exposed scales. Also in 

 course of each bar scattered pearly or whitish rounded spots, smaller 

 and moie crowded about, caudal base. Vertical fins dusky, with 

 irregular and variable whitish spots, smaller on caudal, and edges 

 of all these fms broadly whitish. Female uniform brownish, paler 

 on under surfaces, and without dusky or dark pectorals and ventrals 

 of male. Male with terminal portions of anal rays covered with 

 little points or denticles, row to each shaft. These absent in female, 

 though in some females a few little points or granules on rays of 

 dorsal fin on their outer portions. Length 3.3 to 91 mm. No-. 

 7 227 to 7,233 and 7.293 to 7,303, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of F. nisorius 

 Cope. Gaboon. West Africa. P. B. Duchaillu. 



This very interesting species, incompletely described by Cope, 

 is the exact African counterpart of F. heteroclitus. It resembles the 

 latter in almost all respects, and differs in but few minor character-, 

 a- -holier pectoral-, etc. 

 Fundulus antillarum ^i> oov. Fin. 1. 



Head 3$; depth 3|; D. i, 11; A. i, 9; P. 16; V. i, 5; scales about 

 34 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 

 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origin-; about 23 

 predor^al scales; head depth at occiput \\ its length; head width 

 If; fifth branched dorsal ray \\; fifth branched anal ray \\\ least 

 depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal 1 T V; pectoral 1^; ventral 2J; 




1916.1 



NAT! ."HAL -< IKN'( KS OF I'HlLAnKU'l II A. 



41') 



snoul Ml in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4|; maxillary 

 3; interorbital 2\ . 



Body moderately long, also moderately depressed anteriorly, well 

 compressed behind, back scarcely elevated. Caudal peduncle 

 robust, well compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderately short, wide above, upper profile nearly straight 

 from snout tip to occiput and less inclined than lower. Side- of 

 head moderately approximated below. Snoul short, depressed, 

 length aboul \ its width. Eye rounded, high or close to upper 

 profile and it- centre uear firsi \ in length of head. Mouth rather 

 small, lateral cleft alight, oblique. Premaxillaries well protractile. 

 Maxillary extend- down till close before front edge of eye. Lips 

 moderately fleshy. Teeth all simple, conic, in hand- in jaws, and 



,^^~ ss ^ _ 



I io 1 /■' indnl i ant\ '/., ■- -.. I owler. 



outer row enlarged and slightly curved. Upper and lower inner 

 buccal folds moderately wide, entire. Tongue fleshy, depressed, 

 elongate, end rounded and free in front. Lower jaw robust, pro- 

 trudes beyond upper, convex over surface and in profile. Nostrils 

 superior in front of interorbital space and front edge of eye. Inter- 

 orbital space depressed or flattened, and slight median transverei 

 depression over fronl " ; i • Hind preopercli ghtly inclined 



forward. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind edge of • 

 Gill-rakers -~\-\K lanceolate, about half length of gill-filaments, 

 which slightly less than horizontal diameter of eye. Isthmus wide. 

 Branchiostegals 1. 



Seal'- mod-rate with concentric stria, larger on front predorsaJ 




120 PBOCBBDINOa <>i 1111: \< \m.\n OP [June 



region and top of head, and smaller on breasl . prepectoral region and 

 caudal base. Cheek with 3 rows of scale-. Lateral line complete, 

 inconspicuous, developed as single small pore on each exposure of 

 scale. 



1 tarsal origin slightly nearer gill-opening i han caudal base, branched 

 rays aboul uniformly high, and extend j space to caudal base. Anal 

 inserted aboul opposite base of second or third dorsal ray, and 



median posterior rays longest, longer than dorsal rays, and reach 



j to caudal base. Caudal apparently truncate behind, rounded as 

 -piead open. Pectoral low, rather small, reaches about 5 to ventral. 

 Latter inserted nearly midway between front of eye and caudal 

 base, tin reaching vent, close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish with faint, olivaceous tinge, 

 especially above. Bach scale with a rounded paler basal spot. 

 These spots at intervals of several scale- each with pearly tint or 

 whitish, so thai trace- of about a dozen vertical whitish streaks 

 occur. Fins brownish, dorsal and caudal little darker. Dorsal 

 with several large cream-colored blotches about basal portion of fin, 

 and caudal with three irregular and obscure vertical darker cross-bars. 

 Iris pale yellowish. 



Length 78 mm. 



Type, No. 7,225, A. X. S. P. St. Martins, Danish West Indies. 

 Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma. 



Also No. 7,226, A. X. S. P. Paratype. same data. Head 3f; 

 depth 4: D. 1. 10: A. 1, 9; scale- about 31 to caudal base and 5 more 

 on latter: 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; 

 about 2~) predorsal scales; snout 3£ in head measured from upper 

 jaw tip: eye 3f; maxillary 3: interorbital 2|. Length 7(3 mm. 

 This example a female, and its coloration largely like the type. 

 Dorsal and caudal fins differ only in being uniform brownish. Anal 

 with a well-developed tube along its front edge but little shorter 

 than first anal ray. 



This species i- very closely related to F. heteroclitus. Compared 

 with example- of equal size, but slight, though apparently constant, 

 point- of difference are noted. The males of both species are quite 

 similar, though in /•'. heteroclitus the white spots on the dorsal are 

 much -mailer. As the female of /''. heteroclitus is uniform brownish 

 the female of /'". antiUaru m differs in having the base of each scale 

 with a whitish -pot. In proportions, measurements, etc., the two 

 ■ie- are -imilar. A large series of F. heteroclitus easily covers the 

 structural charact* 




1916.] NATl UAL S( LENCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



I first thought this species was F.fonticola Valenciennes. 2 It is 

 scribed with twelve anal rays, apparently deeper body, and possibly 

 -mailer rounded dorsal and caudal. Valenciennes says: " La couleur 

 paralt avoir etc un vert uniforme sur tout le corps, et je ne vois 

 aucune tache sur les aageoires." He also gives the following remark, 

 which may in part refer to /■'. antillarum: "Une note, ajoutie a la 

 fin de cet article, fait Denser que M. P16e croyail aussi <pii ce poissoD 

 habite la Martinique, car il ilit: 'cesontles poissons qu'on appelle 

 dormeurs dans qos isles.' Les a-t-il confondus avec de jeunes 

 iris, qui sonl ainsi denommes?" This is interesting as showing 

 tin- possible occurrence of Fundulus in the Lesser Antilles, now fully 

 corroborated by the presenl species. Another species, likely closely 

 related is /■'. bermuda Giinther. 3 It appear- to differ in the smaller 

 head, dorsal rays fourteen and anal rays twelve. Later this was 

 redescribed as /•'. rhizophora Goode, 4 with it- color given as light 

 taw ay-brown, with aboul fifteen regular I ransverse bands of greenish- 

 brown, each two scales in width and most distinct on trunk posteri- 

 orly. No mention is made of the color of the fins. The only 

 remaining West Indian -peri.- is /•'. cubensia Eigenmann, which 

 differs entirely in it- large scales 24 . advanced dorsal and anal 



and coloration. 



imed for the Lesser Am i I 



Fundulus hispanicus ValencieDDi 



One from Spain in | r state of preservation. Possibly it differs 



largely in the more posterior position of the dorsal and anal fins, 

 which are exactly opposite, from the American species. It approaches 

 ■■ in the large scales 29 to 32) and small dorsal (9 toll 



Bubgenu FONTIN1 - Jordan and Evermann 

 Type Funduhu teminoh Girard. 



Form long, slender. Snout short or mod. rati'. Jaws not pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season, otherwise 

 similar barred appearance. Females with anal -heath, but no 

 anal tube extending beyond. Males brilliant, sometimes with 

 denticle- or tubercles on body and fins during the spawning season. 



Fundulus diaphanus Le Sutur) 



A very large -.rie- from the Middle Atlantic States, already 



// i \ ■ Po \\ in. 1846, !■ i'- i i- Porto Rfeo 

 I I). XIV, 1874, p •■.'" !'■• nnu 



>.\m,r .1 . . \l\ 1-77 p _"'n Baaden Pond, Bermuda , 



/;■/// U.S. /•' Com., 1902 1904 . p 222, la- 1 Rio del Pinar, Cuba 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \< \m:\n 01 [Jum . 



recorded, besides examples from Massachusetts Cambridge); Rhode 

 Island Newport); New York (Sing Sing). 



Fundulus diaphanus menona Jordan and Copelai 



Indiana: Chicago, [llinois; Grosse Isle, Michigan. 



Fundulus zebrinus Jordan and Gilbert, 



Bull. (J. S. Nat. Mu-. No. 17. 1882, p. 891 based on Hydrargyra 

 Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 60. Tributary of the Rio 

 Grande between Fori Defianct and Fori I nion, New Mexico. Not <»l 

 De Kay 1842. 



No. 7,352, A. N. S. P., cotype of //. :< bra < rirard. ( loll. Mollhausen. 

 Smithsonian Institution (No. 2,590). 



Also a line series from Indiana (Wabash River); Iowa (Silver 

 Lake); Texas (Red River in Staked Plain from Brazos River to 



Texas Tuli Canyon, south of Clarendon, between Seymour and 

 Austin, and Comanche ('reek .- 1 t. Fort Macon). 



Fundulus seminolis Guard. 



Lake Kerr. Florida. 



Subgenus XENISMA Jordan. 



Type Xenisma stellifera .Ionian. 



Form long, very slender. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not 

 produced. Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season r 

 otherwise of similar finely spotted appearance. Females with anal 

 sheath, hut. no anal tube extending beyond. Males brilliant, and 

 anal prickly in spawning season. 

 Fundulus catenatus Storer). 



Virginia Holston River), Arkansas (Eureka Springs), and Tennes- 

 see (Coal ("reek in Clinch River basin). 

 Fundulus stellifer I.Jordan). 



Xenisma stellifer Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y.. Is7ii, p. 322, Etowah 

 and Oostanaula Rivers, Rome, Georgia. 



Nos. 20,718 to 20,720. A. X. S. P., paratypes of X. stellifer Jordan. 



Rome, Ceorgia. D. S. Jordan. From E. D. Cope. 



Subgenus ZYGONECTE8 Agassiz. 

 Type I'wcilin olivacca Storer. 



Form elongate, fusiform. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration, at least during spawning season. 

 Females with anal sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond. 

 Males brilliant, and anal sometimes prickly in spawning season. 

 Dorsal and anal fins small, former distinctly inserted behind origin 

 of latter. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L23 



Fundulus floripinnis ' 



Haplochilus Horipinnis Cope, Zool. Wheeler's Surv. Terr., 1875 1876 . 

 p. 695, PI. 28, figs. 4 a-b. Colorado and Platte Rivera al I tenver, < !olorado. 



Nos. 18,733 to 18,738, A. X. S. P., cotypes of H. floripinnis Ck)pe. 



Fundulus pulvereus Evermann. 



Baldwin Lodge, Mississippi. 



Fundulus sciadicus < "i" 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 7s. Platte River, Nebraska. 

 Nos. 7,183 to 7,201, A. X. S. P. I otypes. Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



Fundulus luciae Baird). 



A large series of examples from the Middle Atlantic States. All 

 hut. the examples obtained at Anglesea, New Jersey, on October :'>. 

 LS97. by Mi- r-. \V. J. Fox and P. Laurent, have been recorded. 



Fundulus chrysotus Gdnthei 



Tick Island in Spring Garden (reck of the St. John's River basin 

 Dr. II. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson) and the everglades al Miami 

 River in Dade County (S. X. Rhoads), Florida. AJso an example 

 from Beaumont, Texas. 



Fundulus balboae ip am Fig 2 



Head 3$; depth If; D. ti, 8; A. i. 12: P. i. 12; V. i. 5; scales 

 3 1 in median lateral series to caudal base, and ."> more on latter; 

 10 scales between dorsal and anal origins; about •'!<) predorsal scales; 

 head width 1" it- length; head depth al occipui I'; snoul :!; eye 

 • '.'; maxillar} \[: interorbital 2\\ sixth branched dorsal ray 1 \ ; 

 tenth branched anal ray \\: least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; 

 caudal 1 ,',, ; pectoral 1 j ; ventral 1 '. 



Body elongate, moderately depressed above in front, compre 

 behind. Caudal peduncle compressed, leasl depth little less than 

 n- lengl h. 



Head depressed above, less bo below, and profiles nearly straight, 

 though lower little more inclined. Snout broad, depressed, length 

 ) its width. Eye large, rounded, slightly before middle m lentil 

 of head, close to upper profile, and extends more on under sum 

 of head than on upper surface. Mouth terminal, gape aol quite 

 half way t<> eye. Premaxillaries protractile. Maxillar) reaches 

 hack opposite hind nostril. Jaws robust, protruding, and lower 

 projecting slightly beyond upper. Bands of fine teeth in jaw-, and 

 an outer rather wide-se1 row of slightly enlarged simple conic teeth 

 Lower jaw rather -hallow, rami not elevated inside mouth. Lips 

 rather fleshy. Tongue fleshy, free in trout and aboul edges,* well 




I_M PROCEEDINGS OF nil. \< IDBM1 01 [J line, 



back in mouth. Upper buccal fold moderately broad, lower oar- 

 rower. Nostrils lateral <>n snoul above, near front of eye. Inter- 

 orbital slightly convex. Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined 

 backwards. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite bind pupil edge, 

 Gill-rakers about L+7 short robust points, much shorter than gill- 

 filaments, latter about. l| in eye. Isthmus narrow. 



Scales cycloid, with many concentric stria, little smaller on breast 

 and belly, more so on caudal base. Scales larger on head above 

 and front predorsal region. Lateral line imperfect and incomplete, 

 at row of pores, one to each scale in middle of its exposun 

 ventral, behind latter dropping a row of scales and then extending 

 audal base. 



Dor>al origin about last third in space between centre of eye and 

 caudal base, sixth branched ray highest, and depressed fin extending 



Fig. 2. — Fundulus baJboce. Fowler. 



hack to caudal base. Front § of anal base before dorsal or origin 

 of fin little nearer gill-opening than caudal base, fin like dorsal, only 

 falling slightly shorter of caudal base. Caudal oblong, hind edge 

 apparently slightly convex. Pectoral small, reaches i to ventral, 

 latter reaching anal. 



f'olor in alcohol dark olive-brownish generally, with apparently 



more or less uniform ground-color. A dark or dusky longitudinal 



band from mouth to eye. behind latter to gill-opening ami continued 



mdal base. After gfll-opening this band extends below median 



axis of trunk, and it- width slightly less than vertical eye-diameter. 

 Iris warm brownish. Fins uniform pale brownish, except, dorsal 

 and upper part of caudal, which marked with a few rather wide-set 

 dark brownish -pot-. 

 Length 62 mm. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENl ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Type, No. 16,728, A. X. S. P. Panama. Lieutenant Fields. 

 Only the above example known. It i- apparently not closely 

 related to any of the known species of the subgenus. 

 Named for Balboa, Panama.) 



Fundulus nottii Agaasii 



Indiana; North Carolina (Wilmington : Georgia (Thomasville) ; 

 Florida (Leon County and Walaka). 



Fundulus notatus RafinesQue 



/•'. aureus Cope, Proc V.cad Mat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 7-- Detroit River, 

 ( in.--.- [sle, Michigan. 



No. 7.1 12. A. X. s. 1'.. type of /•'. aurt us ( !ope. 

 Illinois (Illinois River basin at Marley ; Missouri; Arkang 

 Indian Territory; Texas (Fort Worth). 



CHRIOPEOPS subgi d 

 Tj |»- Lucania good* i Jordan. 



Form fusiform, elongate. Teeth in jaw- in two series, simple, 

 conic, outer row enlarged, .law- short, obtuse. Dorsal tin inserted 

 slightly before anal origin. Female with an anal sheath. 



Differs from the other subgenera of Fundulus in the dentition, as 

 all have the inner teeth in a fine villifonn hand, at leasl in more than 

 one row. It, resembles certain sp< cies of Zygoru <t< 8 in t he black lateral 

 band, but the anterior position of the dorsal at once distinguishes 

 it,. Small fishes, little over an inch in length. 



hriope, an old name tor Notr opts bifrenatus, ami ">. , appearance, 

 to which the type species bears ;i close superficial resemblan i 



Fundulus goodei Jord 



Miami ami everglades a1 Miami River S. \. Rhoads . and Tick 

 Island in Spring I larden * !reek of St. John's River basin ' Dr. II \ 

 Pilsbry), Florida. 



i lX^ Z\ <■< ibgen. dov. 



Tj pe //"/'/"• ' Guntl 



.law- long ami spatulate. Gill-rakers rather Qumerous, 22 to 24 

 much more so than in many of tin' subgenera. Dorsal fin inserted 



entirely behind anal. 



This subgenus differs from ZygonecU in the long anal with 13 to 

 L6 rays (compared with 8 to ij m ZygonecU The peculiar physi- 

 ognomy, with the extremely depressed head, i- also :i point ol 



difference. 



pointed ; Z * 




n;< II j EDLNQ8 01 I Ml \« \lM.\n OP [June, 



Fundulus dovii (G until 



( lentral America (( 5ope). 



Aplocheilus panchax U mail ton-Buchanan). 



India. 



Aplocheilus macrostigma (Boulenj 



Haphchilua macrostigma Boulenger, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hisl . v VIII, '.'Ml 

 p. 268. Lucola River, Luculla River, and Luali River, Portuguese 

 ( kmgo. 



Nos. 38,632 i" 38,641, A. X. S. P. Paratypes of //. macrostigma 

 Boulenger. Luna, Luali Eliver, West Africa. Dr. J. W. Ansorge. 

 Purchased 



Aplocheilus cameronensis (Boulei 



Gaboon. 



Aplocheilus sexfasciatus (Giin. 



Epiplalys si xfascialus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 136. < iaboon. 



Nos. 7.129 to 7.141. A. N. S. P., types of E. sexfasciatus Gill. 

 Gaboon, West Africa. P. B. Duchaillu. 

 Also Luali River at Lundo in Chiloango. 



Aplocheilus senegalensis (Steindacnner). 



Africa. 



Aplocheilus spilauchen 'A. Dumeril). 



( 'hiloango Town, Portuguese Congo. 

 Adinia multifasciata Girard. 



Proc. A-cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 118. Galveston, St. Joseph [sland 

 and Indianola, Texas. 



Nos. 7.291 and 7,292, A. X. S. P., cotypes. Indianola, Texas. 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



Rivulus micropus <St,-j n( i ac hner). 



Ecuador and Pebas, Peru. 



Lucania venusta Girard. 



Grand Plain- Bayou (U. S. F. Com.). Mississippi; Juniper Creek 

 southwest side of Lake George (Dr. II. A. Pilsbry and C. W. 

 Johnson i. Florida. 



Lucania parva Baird). 



Besides a large series of local specimens from New Jersey, Delaware 



and Virginia, are seven from the first-named State at Anglesea 



W. J. Fox and P. Laurent on October 3, l s ''7 . not previously listed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Girardinichthys innominatus Bleeker. 



Act. Soc. Ind. NeerL Prodr. Ich. Arch. Ind.), I860, pp. 4S1, 484 (on 

 Cirard's description without a name. Proc. Acad. Nat. ScL Phila., 

 1859, p. 118. City of Mexico.) 



No. 7,605, A. X. S. P., cotype. City of Mexico. Collection 

 Major W. Rich. Smithsonian Institution. 



Also seven examples from Lake Xochimilco in 1885 (E. D. Cope). 



ORESTIIN.i:. 



Orestias cuvieri Valenciennes. 



Tinta, Peru, and Lake Titicaca. 



Orestias pentlandii Valenciennes. 



Lake Titicaca. 



Orestias bairdii Cope. 



Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875, p. 185. Lake Titicaca. 



No. 21,554, A. X. S. P., type. Lake Titicaca, Bolivia. Prof. 

 James Orton. 1873. E. D. Cope. 



This species has been merged with the preceding by Carman, 

 though it appears to differ in the larger pectoral reaching half way 

 to tin- vent, besides the much larger predorsal scales. 



Orestias agassizii Valenciennes. 



0. ortonii ('up'-. 1. c, |>. 186. Lake Titicaca. 

 O.fronlosua Cope, 1. c. Lake Titicaca. 



So. 21,557. A. X. S. P., type of 0. ortonii < '<»pe. 



Nos. 21,.").").") and 21,556, A. X. S. P., cotypes of O.frontosua Cope. 



Also several other examples from Peru ami Lake Titicaca. 



Orestias cypho q>. nov. 1'iu. ■'>. 



I bad 2|j depth 2;; : D. 1, 13; A. 1. L3; P. 1, 18; acalee :;:> in 

 median lateral series t.. caudal base and 5 more on latter; 1 1 scales 

 transversely between dorsal and anal origins; aboul 23? predorsal 

 scales; head width Dearly equals its length; head depth at occiput 

 If; lower jaw 3|; fifth branched dorsal raj 2|; fifth branched anal 

 ray 2'; least depth of caudal peduncle 2: caudal 1-.; pectoral 

 -ii. nit, .")!, in head measured from upper jaw tip: eye •">'.; maxillary 

 '.'. : interorbital 



Body very robust, especially anteriorly, compressed behind, 

 ttesl depth about opposite middle of pectoral. Predorsal with 

 ited rather Btout and moderately convex median keel beginning 

 r occiput. Caudal peduncle well compressed, length abo 



' depth. 



He.nl very wide, robust, large, opercular regions swollen out, so 



i 




128 



PROi i EDINGS OF THE At \hi;\n 01 



[June, 



thai depth of head at hind preopercle edge j its greatest width. 

 Also prominent ridge od each side of head above opercles. Upper 

 profile slightly convex a1 firsl , or to occiput, then concave to predorsal 



ridge, lower profile steeply convex. Snout wide, depressed or 

 but slightly convex, length about \ its width. Eye small, high, 

 trout edge near first fourth in head. Mouth vertical, commissure 

 extending slightly below lower eye edge. Upper jaw greatly pro- 

 tractile, or for space slightly greater than eye-diameter. Maxillary 

 vertical, extending back about half way to front of eye. Lips 

 fleshy. Lower jaw vertical, convex in profile, shallow, rami not. 

 elevated inside mouth. Teeth small, simple, inconspicuous or 

 concealed more or less in fleshy lips, disposed as narrow short Land 

 mostly in front of jaws. Tongue thick, fleshy, depressed, free 



Fiji. 3. — Orestias cypho Fowler. 



around edges. Nostrils 2 little slits, close together, above and 

 opposite front, edge of eye. Interorbital wide and slightly convex. 

 Hind ridge of preopercle slightly inclined Lack. Very slight median 

 concave depression on top of head before predorsal ridge. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite middle of eye. (Jill-rakers 

 about 10 short stumps, rudimentary. Gill-filaments slightly longer 

 than eye. [sthmus narrow, gill-membranes forming broad fold 

 across. Branchiostegala 5. 



Scales cycloid, largest on predorsal. becoming smaller on hind 

 part, of body, caudal base and lower side of trunk. Prepectoral 

 region scaly. Scales on upper surface of head, predorsal and 

 shoulders finely granular, other scales finely roughened with concen- 

 tric striae. Cheeks with 4 rows of scales, none below preorbital. 

 Scales down median line 6f predorsal not especially enlarged. Bi 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 429 



of dorsal and anal naked, also breast, and medial] line of belly. No 

 lateral line. 



Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than gill-opening, 

 depressed fin not. quite reaching caudal base. Anal origin opposite 

 base of first branched dorsal ray, depressed tin reaching ,' t.<> caudal 

 base. Caudal moderately convex behind. Pectoral broad, rounded, 

 If to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish with olive tinge, under 

 surface paler or whitish. Fins all brownish, uniform, [ris brownish. 



Length 153 nun. 



Type, No. 21,920, A. X. S. P. Taken iron, a lYm... snake from 

 La Paz. Bolivia. 1876 77. Prof . J. Orton. From F. I), ('ope. 



Only the above example known. It i- closely related, if not. 

 identical, with 0. nevem Pellegrin, 8 hut thai species differs according 

 to it- description in the following respects: Head 1\: depth 3j 

 D. 15; A. 17; P. 21: scales 32; conic teeth somewhat numerous: 

 dorsal inserted midway between gill-opening and caudal base; 

 pectoral 2\ in head. It agree-, however, in having the scales uniform 

 and continuous each side of the median predorsal row. ;t character 

 by which both species differ from 0. albus Valenciennes. The 

 latter ha- a naked lengthwise urea each side. 



(Ci/i>Ii<>, hunchback; with reference to the predorsal ke< 



I ri PRINODONTIN E 



Cyprinodon variegatus I 



C. gibbosui Baird and Girard, I'm.- ^cad. Nal Sci. Phila., 1853, p 39Q. 

 [ndianola, Texas. 



No. 7,221, A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. gibbosus Baird and Girard. 

 [ndianola, Texas. Coll. J.H.Clark. Smithsonian Institution 884 . 



Besides the numerous local specimi ns also examined and r< corded, 

 the collection contains other- as follow-: Connectii nk); 



North Carolina (Fori Macon); Florida .Miami, southwestern 

 region and Carrabelle); Alabama; Mississippi (Baldwin Lodge). 



Cyprinodon variegatui riverendi l" 



Boca Chics and Marquesas Keys, Florida. 



Cyprinodon bovinus Baird and Oi 



' eximiu Girard, Proc ^cad Nal 8ci. Phila., 1859, p 158. Chihuahua 

 River, Mexico. 



No. 7,223, \. N. s. p. Cotype of C. ea raiu« Girard. Chihuahua 

 River, Mcmco. Coll. Pott-. Smithsonian Institution No 3,501 . 



' Hail So / Frana . 1904, p 95 Lake Tin. ... 




80 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE AiADKMV OP 



[June, 



Also several from Lago de Guzman, Chihuahua, Mexico (Dr. 

 P. P. Calvert). 

 Cyprinodon bovinui rubrofluviatilis subsp. nov. Fig 4. 



Head 3; depth 2|; D. i, 9; A. i, 10; P. i, 15; V. i, 6; .scales 27 

 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 14 

 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 25 pre- 

 dorsal scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 

 1|, lower jaw 3|; third branched dorsal ray l\; fourth branched 

 anal ray I': least depth of caudal peduncle 1|; caudal 1|; pectoral 

 l;i ventral 2\; snout 3 \ in head measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 3s ; maxillary 3; interorbital space 2|. 



Body well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, predorsal with 



Fig. &.—Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis Fowler. 



median trenchant keel and well arched before dorsal fin. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, its least depth 1| in its length. 



Head compressed moderately, upper profile more inclined than 

 lower, and lower sides not especially converging below. Snout 

 short, wide, and length about § its width. Eye moderate, high, 

 centre about first § in head. Jaws greatly protractile, upper at least 

 distensible space equal to snout length. Maxillary nearly vertical, 

 largely concealed. Lips moderate. Teeth uniserial, compressed, 

 each tricuspid and expanded terminally. Inner upper and lower 

 buccal folds moderately wide. Tongue fleshy, small, depressed, 

 little free around edges. Lower jaw slightly protruding in front, 

 oblique to somewhat vertical, shallow, and rami not elevated inside 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



mouth. Nostrils close above upper front of eye edge, small, simple. 

 Interorbital slightly convex. Preorbital about f area of eye. Hind 

 preopercle edge little free and nearly vertical, entire. 



Gill-opening adnate above to gill-opening close above base of first 

 pectoral ray, and extends forward opposite hind pupil edge. Gill- 

 membranes widely connected across rather narrow isthmus. Rakers 

 about 26, short slender points about ^ length of gill-filaments, and 

 latter equal eye. Branchiostegals -4. 



Scales rather narrowly imbricated, largest on top of head and 

 opercles, smallest on breast and caudal base. Enlarged humeral 

 scale longer than eye. Scales in 2 row- on cheek. Lateral line 

 obscure and incomplete, formed as short arch of few pores parallel 

 with contour of back far as dorsal origin, a single pore on each scale. 



Dorsal inserted midway between centre of eye and caudal base, 

 median rays longest, and depressed fin extends I to caudal base. 

 Anal inserted about opposite base of fifth branched dorsal ray, fin 

 extending f to caudal base when depressed. < laudal with hind edge 

 slightly convex. Pectoral long, reaches back well beyond ventral 

 origin, latter little before dorsal, and tin reaching vent, which close 

 before anal. 



Color of male, in alcohol, uniform brownish on back and upper 



surface of head. Sides and lower surface whitish. Fins all pale 

 brownish, and except ventrals densely punctate darker as seen und< i 

 a lens, [ris pale brownish. 



Length 53 mm. 



Type, No. 20,266, A. X. S. 1'. Brazos River, between Seymour 

 and Authon, Texas. Collection of W. S. Black. E. D. Cope. 



Also large series, Nos. 20,267 to 20,324, \. N. 8. P., paratypes, 

 same data. They -how: Head 3 bo '■'<]: depth 2| to 3j 1). usually 

 i. 9, rarely i, S; \. i. 'i or i. LOj scales 25 i" 29 in median lateral 

 series to caudal base and 3 or I more on latter; 12 to I I scales trans- 

 ely between dorsal and anal origins; snout 3 to I in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip: eye 2 J to 3; maxillarj -',' bo ■'>': interorbital 

 2| bo 2}; length 33 bo 15 mm. Most of (his series females, and 

 differing from bhe male in having six or seven vertical wide cr< 

 bars of dark brownish on trunk. These all more or less variable. 

 Very pale brownish vertical streak at base ol caudal. Outer bind 

 portion of caudal with vertical submarginal dusk} streak bo median 

 though hind edge ol fin narrowly pali • tfti o dorsal and anal 

 rather dark, though former mostly uniform. Young examples colored 

 like female-, variable. 




132 PROCEEDINGS <H THE a< \di\i\ OF |.ltine, 



Thia interesting form is closely related to Cyprinodon bovinus, 

 apparently differing in the absence of a distinct black pale-edged 

 ocellus on upper hind portion of dorsal. 



Also an example from the staked plains between the Brazos River 

 and Tulip, Red River, Texas. 1892. E. D. Cope. 



Two from the I i< •< 1 River basin south of Clarenden, Texas. E. D. 

 ( lope. 



(Named for the Red River, of the most northern inland eastern 



region at which a member of the genus Cyprinodon has been found.) 



Cyprinodon macularius Baird and (iirard. 



Proc \ id. Nat. Sci. Phila., L853, p. 389. Rio San Pedro, Arizona 

 Cyp iforniensis Girard, Proc. Acid. Nat. Sci. Phila., L859, p. 158. 



San Diego County, California. 



No. 7,219, A. X. S. P.. cotype of C. macularius Baird and (iirard. 

 Hi" San Pedro, Arizona. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution 

 No. 992). 

 No. 7,220, A. X. S. P.. cotype of C. californiensis Girard. San 

 Diego County. California. Smithsonian Institution (No. 311). 

 Also an example from Salt River, in the Gila Basin, at Tempe 

 Dr. II. A. Pilsbrj , Arizona. 

 Cyprinodon elegans Baird and Girard. 



Pror Acad Nat. Sci. Phila., L853, p. 389. Camanche Spring, Texas. 

 No. 7.22J. A. N. S. P.. cotype of C. elegans Baird and Girard, 

 Camanche Spring, Texas. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution 



No. r.si, . 

 Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean. 



Large series from the Florida Keys, which I collected in 1904. 



Lebias fasciatus Valenciennes. 



Mediterranean (Bonaparte No. 313). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



GOODEINiE. 



Goodea atripinnis Jordan. 



Lake Patscuaro, Mexico Mexican expedition 1890). 



Characodon variatus T. II. Bean. 



Rio Verde at Pa-eon, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 



P0E< 1 I.I I XT'.. 



Gambusia affinis Isaird and Girard). 



Heterand Baird and 'iirard. Proc Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 1854, 



ii. .;'.)•) Rio Medina and Rio Salado, Texas. 



G. hoWrooki Girard, Proc.Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 61. Palatka, Florida. 



<< g a Girard, I.e., p. 121. Matamoras, Mexico. 



Haplochiliu melanops Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 



]>. \'u Neuse River, North Carolina. 

 Zygo Cope, Bull. I'. 8. Nat. Mas., XX, 1880, p. 34. 



Trinity River. Port Worth, Texas. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



Nos. 6,974 and 6,975, A. X. S. P., cotypes of Heterandria affinis 

 Baird and Girard. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution (No. 66). 



Nos. 6,976 and 6 r 977, A. X. S. P., cotypea of G. holbrooki Girard. 

 Palatka, Florida. Smithsonian [nstitution (No. 77 



No. 6,973, A. X. S. P.. cotype of G. gracilis Girard. Matamoras, 

 Mexico. Smithsonian [nstitution (No. 3,506 , 



N"v 7.1 !•■ to 7,159, A. X. S. 1'.. cotypi - of HaplochUus mtlanops 

 Cope. Neuse River, North Carolina. E. I). Cope. 



No. 20,446, A. X. S. P., type of /. brachypterus ("ope. Trinity 

 River, Fort Worth. Texas. E. 1). ('ope 



Besides a large series of local materia] from New Jersey to Vir- 

 ginia are specimens from Bi^ Cypress in Lee County (Baynard . 

 Florida; Devil's River (Pilsbry), Texas; Lake Superior at Pequaming 

 in Brayon County (M. Hebard), Michigan. This species is very 

 abundant in southern New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia, 

 coastwise. Although Dr. Regan separates Heterandria holbrook&i 

 Girard and //. patruelis Baird and Girard as distincl species, I feel 

 convinced they are not separable. The amount of variation, even 

 in New Jersey examples, i- sufficient to include the Limitations he 

 gives, as well as permit -till greater latitude. Many aquarium 

 specimens are marked with large black blotches, others are pale 

 and immaculate. 



Oambusia punctata I' 



Mem. Hi-' Nat. Cuba, I. 1855, p. 384, Cuba. 



No. 6,978, A. X. S. I'.. probably cotype? Cuba. Prof. V Poey. 

 Smithsonian [nstitution (No. 655 , 



Uso examples from Santiago de < !uba and Bahia Honda, < luba. 



Gambusia mcnieli ip. am I 



Head :;.'.: depth 3; D. i,8; A.n.v P.u, 11; V.i, 5; scales about 

 26 9quamation injured) in median lateral series to caudal base, and 

 2 more on latter; about 7 scales (squamation injured) between dorsal 

 and anal origins; 20? scales (squamation injured), before dorsal; 

 head width 1 ', in its length; head depth at occipul I ', ; third branched 

 dorsal ray l f; third branched anal raj l ,' . least depth of caudal 

 peduncle I i : caudal 1; pectoral I ', ; ventral 2}; snout 2| in head, 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye -','. maxillary '■'<[: interorbital 



i 



- 



Body well compressed, deepest at ventral origin, lower fi 

 profile little more convex than upper, and edges all rounded. < laudal 

 peduncle strong!} compressed, about long as deep. * 




434 



[•hoi i i niN<;> m i hi \. \i>i;\n <>i 



[June, 



Head small, depressed above, constricted sides approximated below, 

 ;md lower profile little more inclined. Snout wide, depressed, length 

 it ] it- width. Eye large, high, about midway in head length. 

 Mouth broad, commissure about half way to eye, slightly inclined, 

 .laws produced, upper protractile nearly equal to snout- length. 

 Lower jaw with rami firm at symphysis. Teetli in bands of mod- 

 erate width in jaws, all simple, eonie and outer row slightly enlarged 

 and curved. Maxillary greatly inclined, largely slips below front 

 edge of preorbital. Tongue small, depressed, rather narrow, free 

 in front. No teeth on roof of mouth. Lips rather thin. Nostrils 

 dose to upper front eye edge. Interorbital broad, flattened. Pre- 

 orbital large, deeper than long and its length about f of eye. Pre- 

 opercle ridge vertical. 



,/><v, ''K 



Fig, 5, — Gambu8ia mcnieli Fowler. 



Gill-opening forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil. Rakers 

 about 14, very slender, their length about \ of filaments and latter 

 about | of eye. Isthmus narrow and trenchant. 



Scales large, narrowly imbricated, smaller on caudal base. Scales 

 large on prepectoral region and a single row on cheek. Opercles 

 ;tnd top of head w T ith rather large scales. Obscure lateral line, 

 imperfect, and as simple pore in middle of exposure of scale, course 

 median along side, at least posteriorly (squamation largely damaged 

 anteriorly). 



Dorsal origin just behind anal base, or about last third between 

 front edge of eye and caudal base, and depressed fin extending about 

 £ to caudal base. Anal inserted about midway between middle of 

 eye and caudal base, first branched ray longest and others regularly 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



graduated down, depressed tin extending about f to caudal base. 

 Caudal with hind edge convexly rounded. Pectoral long, with 

 wide base, reaches back nearly opposite anal origin. Ventral small, 

 inserted little nearer anal than pectoral, and not quite reaching 

 former. 



Color in alcohol largely brownish, paler below, each scale on back 

 with cluster of dark pigment dots at pock< ts. Iris slaty with dark 

 pigment dots. Dorsal ray- each with median brownish spol and 

 another midway toward base. Median caudal rays with three or 

 four brownish spots, forming irregular transverse bar-, especially 

 evident when fin closes. Outer portions of anal ray- with few 

 brownish pigment spots. Except as noted, all fins pale or transparent , 



Length 35 mm. 



Type Xo. 6,818, A. N. S. P. Panama. J. A. McXiel. 



Only the above example, a female, known. It i- close i<» the 

 figure of G. nicaraguensis Giinther, 7 except the Latter shows the 

 dorsal ami caudal with more darker spots on the rays, especially 

 terminally. The prepectoral scales -mailer, and a dark spot little 

 -•nailer than the eye above postventral region. Possibly this figure 

 may refer to Gambusia dovii Regan, 8 as Giinther's G. nicaragw 

 was based on "several females 1 ' or 2 inches long presented by 

 Captain Dow.'" Now >,. dovii Regan differs in having the depth 3f 

 and the head 3f, eye ■'-' . 32 scales, dorsal rays 7, and interorbital 1 1. 

 It is based on a single female 33 mm. Long. 



(,'. caaeajalensU Meek and Eildebrand 9 differs in the head :!,"„ to 

 depth same, 1). i. 6, A. u, 7. scales 26, -mailer eve (2^ to 3 X V), 

 and the coloration. 



Three other species, G. latipunctata Meek" and Hildebrand, G. cana 

 Meek and Hildebrand, 11 G. darienei Meek and Hildebrand, ,2 all 

 have -mailer head. Less* r depth, fewer branched rays, more scales, 



-mailer eye. different coloration, etc. 



Named for J. A. McNiel, who collected fishes in Panama man} 



i - ago. 



Gambusia nicaraguensis G 



< hrizaba, Mexico. 



V . /. So bond VI, 1868, p 182, PI. B2. fig '• I 

 " Prm /. Lake N 



i ield Mil-. Pub 166, Zoo! Set \. No 8, 191 1, p7 86. Rio i ■ tntic 



i [i >pe of Panama 



/- • . p 37 \> i ijan Pa< ifi< slo| I una 



11 / oa, P icific ulo| I \ 



lJ L <■ , p 88, Rio Capet i Tuyra River basin, Pacific slop 




L36 PBCX BSDINOS OP THI L( \i>i:\n 01 |.lune, 



Belonesox belizanus Kner 



» Orizaba, Mexico. 



Pseudoxiphophorus bimaculatus (Heckel) 



Orizaba and Jalapa in Vera Cruz (Dr. P. P. Culvert,), Mexico. 

 One example from Orizaba adult, and with exceptionally produced 

 hunch on the predorsal region. 



Heterandria formosa (Girard). 



Tick Island in Spring Garden (reck. St. .John's River basin (Dr. 

 H. A. Pilsbry), Florida. 



PoBciliopsis occidentalis (Buird and Girard). 



Heterandria occidentalis Baird ami Girard, Proo. A.cad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 L853, p. 390. Hin Santa Cruz, Tucon, Arizona. 



No. 6,972, A. N. S. P., cotype of //. <>cci<l< uinlis Baird and Girard. 

 Rio Santa Cruz, Tucon, Arizona. Smithsonian Institution (No. 

 3,511). 



Many examples also from the above locality September, 1910, 

 and others from the Salt River in the Gila basin (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry). 



This species has recently been placed in Mollienisia by Dr. Regan, 

 but the comparison of my series shows it belongs to Pceciliopsis. 



Poeciliopsis lutzi M 



Head 3f to 3f; depth 3| to 4; D. i, 7; A. in, 7; scales 25 to 27 

 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 2 or 3 more on latter; 

 S or 9 scales between dorsal and anal origins; snout 3| to 4£ in head; 

 eye 2| to 3$ : maxillary 2| to 4; interorbital 2 to 2\. Body elongate, 

 fusiform, compressed. Head depressed above. Snout truncate as 

 viewed above. length about § its width. Eye close to upper profile, 

 centre at first third in head length. Mouth wide, upper jaw greatly 

 protractile. Maxillary nearly vertical. One row of Blender bent 

 spoon-like flexible teeth in each jaw. Lower jaw truncate, scarcely 

 projects. Interorbital flat. Rakers about 14 slender weak points, 

 \ of filaments. Scales mostly uniform, single row on cheek. Dorsal 

 inserted at last third in space between snout tip and caudal base. 

 Anal inserted little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base. Caudal 

 convex behind. Pectoral reaches nearly f to anal, ventral f to vent. 

 ' olor in alcohol pale brownish, obscure darker blotch on most scales 

 on hack. Side- of head and costal region silvery-white. Row of 

 eight to ten small brownish spots, concurrent with vertebral axis of 

 body along ite sides, each spot not greater than diameter of eye. 

 Conspicuous blackish blotch at anal origin, sometimes absent or 

 represented by dark basal line, in smaller examples. Fins pale, 




1916.] NATURAL >< Ih\. BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



-Mine with several obscure or slightly darker transverse cross-bars. 

 Iri- silvery, tinged brownish. Length 40 to 58 mm. Orizaba, 

 Mexico I F. Sumichrast). 



Thi< species is closely related to P. pleurospilus (Gunther), and 

 appear- to differ only in the coloration, in which the lateral dark 

 spots are fewer in number. The present species was originally 

 described 11 with "a narrow dark streak on under side of caudal 

 peduncle, " a character uot indicated on the figure, 1 ; which is evidently 



a female. Meek also describes Ih l< rmnliin pleUTOSpiluS a- identical 



with Gunther's Girardinus pleurospilus, 16 but Regan claims, evi- 

 dently as they are -aid to have " sides with s to 1 1 black -pot- .... 

 each about, a- large a- eye, " that they are not, ( '.nut her'- Bpecies, M but 

 //. /»/:/' Meek. None of these writers mention the conspicuous 

 black blotch so frequent in adult females at the front basal portion 

 of 'lie anal fin. and well represented in Gunther's figure of a. />!• 

 spihx 



Leptorhaphis infans u 



Orizaba, Mexico (F. Sumichrast 



Phalloceros caudimaculatus n 



Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Also several aquarium example-, 

 recently imported to Philadelphia, remarkable for their coloration. 

 Two are female- and one a male. They are largely very pale 

 brownish, and below more whitish. Each -rale on bark with slight 

 or obscure narrow brownish edge. Sides of trunk and head with 

 silvery reflection-. Slightly darker brownish streak down middle 

 of back. Fins all whiti-h. marked irregularly with jet-black blotches. 

 < >n middle of side, just below middle of depressed dorsal vertical 

 elliptical browni-h Notch, obscure, about equal to eye-diameter. 

 Body and head also marked m striking contrast with irregular or 

 variable blacki-h blot. -he-. In- grayish. In qo two individuals, 

 or even on each Bide of the same individual, are these color-patterns 



alike. They are extremely prominent and render the fi-h very 



attractive in the aquarium. Though this may be due in large 

 measure to domestication, certain wild example- also -how similar 

 modification-. &£ I have found Gambu a affin and Molliei 

 latipinna, from Florida, equally a- contrasted a- in thi »1 the 



I i.-|,| Mu-. Pub 66, Zool, >' i . !'">-'. i' l 1 "' 

 8 il.nl.-i. Mexico 



/. '.;. Zool 8ei 1904, p. 1 19, fig 17. 



\i i \ I i -'.'. p ... Lago '!-■ I ' 

 Biol. An. Centr. 190t ' 



'/ / 5 London, VI, I* I'l B7, fig I 




PROCEEDINGS OF mi o \io.\n OP [June, 



present species. Possibly these concentrated dark blotches may be 

 of parasitic origin, though a casual examination with the microscope 

 discloses nothing but crowded jet-black chromatophores. 



Glaridiohthys uuinotatus Poey. 



Bahia Honda. ( 'iil«a. 

 Girardinus metallicus Poey. 



Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, I. 1855, pp. 387, 391, PI. ::. figs. 8 LI. Cuba. 

 No. 6,971, A. X. S. P., cotype. Cuba. Smithsonian Institution 

 No. 252). 

 Also another from Cuba without definite locality (W. T. Innes). 



Platypoecilus couchianus (Girardi. 



Monterey, Mexico. 

 Platypoecilus maculatus GUnther. 



Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), Mexico (W. T. Innes). 



Xiphophorus helleri Heckel. 



Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), Jalapa (Dr. P. P. Calvert), Mexico 

 (R. E. Dorsey and F. L. Tappan). 



Pcecilia vivipara Schneider. 



Surinam (Dr. C. Hering) and Hucares, Porto Rico. I have also 

 examined a large series from Guanica, obtained by Mr. C. F. Silvester 

 in 1915. 



Lebi8tes reticulatua Peters. 



Trinidad and Brazil. 



Mollienisia latipinna Le Sueur. 



South Carolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook); Boca Chica Key, Hernando 

 County and Bayport (E. D. Cope), Blue Creek in Lake County 

 (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), and Tick Island (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Florida. 

 A small example from the last locality is irregularly blotched over 

 head, trunk and fins with blackish, like some examples of Gambusin 

 affinis. 



Mollienisia sphenops (Valenciennes). 



Venezuela? (Dr. J. F. Bransford), Panama (J. A. McNiel), Wounta 

 Haulover in Nicaragua (Rev. Fluck), Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), 

 and Rio Verde at Rascon, Mexico. 



Limia vittata (Guichenot). 



A. cuben Poey, Mem. Hist. Nut. Cuba, I. L855, p. 388, PI. 31, figs. 12-13. 



Cuba. 



Xo. 6,814, A. X. S. P.. cotype of L. cubensis Poey. Smithsonian 

 Institution (Xo. 659). Also another Cuban example from Poey. 

 Guaninar, Cuba. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



ANABLEPIN K. 



Anableps anableps (Linnfi). 



Surinam (Dr. C. Hering) and Para, Brazil. Trindad (Dr. B. 

 Sharp). 



Anableps microlepis M Oiler and Troscbel. 



Pedernales, Venezuela. 



Anableps dowei Gill. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 4. Lallnia, San Salvador. 

 Xo. 6,982, A. N. S. P., type. Lallnia, San Salvador, ('apt. Dow. 



AMBLYOPSID^J. 

 Ambiyopsis spelaeus De Kay. 



Many from Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. 




440 PRO< BEDING8 OF mi: \< \m:\n OF [June, 



on some varieties of thais lapillus in the mount desert 

 region. a study of individual ecology. 



by harold s. colton. 



Introduction. 



In this study an attempt is made to correlate some ol the many 

 color varieties of Thais Nucetta, Purpura) lapillus with the condi- 

 tions under which the animal lives. The study is based <>n held work 

 carried out in the neighborhood of Mount Desert Island, Maine, in the 



summer of 1915. Over 12.000 snails were collected from sixty-seven 



localities, sorted, and the variations tabulated. These tables wen- 

 then compared with the environment of the snail. 



With respect to Thais there is a very general belief that color is 

 correlated with the color of the environment. Cooke (1895) cites a 

 locality in Cornwall where striped forms are found on striped rocks. 

 Blaney I 1904) reports yellow forms were found to predominate on 

 the yellow granite rocks of Yellow Island, a small island in French- 

 mens Bay on the Maine coast. On account of the great variation 

 of Thais and the apparent predominance of one variety in a given 

 locality, a study of the variations might throw light on some of the 

 ecological factors of the sea beach. 



Life History of Thais. 



Thais (subgenus Nucella or Purpura) lapiUus \< a carnivorous 

 prosobranch mollusk. It feeds almost exclusively in this region on 

 the mussel, Mytilus edulis, and the barnacle, Balanus halanoides. 

 The former it. attacks by boring a hole in the shell about 1 mm. in 

 diameter, devouring the soft parts by means of its long flexible 

 proboscis. The barnacle is eaten in much the same manner, the 

 hole being drilled through one of the scutes. Xot only do they 

 sometimes attack the periwinkle, Idttorina littorea, but will try to 

 bore through the -hell of one of their own kind. Although many 

 shells show -car-, there i- no evidence, however, that many are 

 destroyed in this way. 



The descriptive ecologist has aeglected the Atlantic coast north 

 of ("ape Cod. King and Russell's classification for the coast of 



Scotland will not hold for this region. Some day, if some one else 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



has not undertaken it. the writer hopes to make a descriptive classi- 

 fication of the animal communities of the sea beach in the Mount 

 Desert region. Provisionally he recognizes the following classifica- 

 tion of the Littoral Formation: 



prift Zone. 



Littorina rudis Zone 

 \ (Mean High Water). 



Balanus Zone. 



(Fucu- Zone. 



Solid Rock Association 



(Mytilus Zone 

 Transition Zone 

 Mean Low \\ : 



Littoral Formation Mean Low \Y 



JRock Association. 



/ 1 lock Pool Association. 



/ Boulder Association. 



Shingle or Pebble Association. 

 ' Sand Beach Association. 



Mud Flal Association, 



Th<- mean rise and tall of the tide i- ten vertical feet. 



Thais i- found in tin- Solid Rock, Boulder and Rock Pool \~-. - 

 ciations. In the two former it. i- confined to the Balanus, Fucus, and 

 Mytilus Zones, and particularly i<> the Balanus and Mytilus Zones, 

 as there tin- food i- found. There, Thais i- associated with Littorina 

 null's, L. paUiata, I., littorea, Balanus bakmoides and Mytilus edulis. 

 When the tide is nigh the dinner (Tautogolabrus adspersus) and the 

 pollack [Pollachius virens) invade this formation to feed. 



Thais is not found in the Shingle, Sand or Mud Mat Associations. 



Nor i- it found alive in any associati >f the Bottom Formation, 



unless we should classify the Rock Pool a- a detached part of this 

 formation. 



It, i- not found in any stratum other than the upper surfaj t 



rock-. It, i- found therefore neither on the weeds nor under the soil. 



It- habitat is very closely associated with its food. (See diagram, 

 fin. 1, illustrating the food relation- of Thau to it- organic environ- 

 ment 



Tic * ggg are laid in little urn-shaped capsules in sheltered place-. 



They air more ;il>undant in the Mvtilu- Zone in favored -pot-. BUCh 



i in cracks in the rock- or- under masses ol Fucu than in the Balanus 

 Zone, in each capsule aboul WO eggs are laid. \- cannibalism 

 i^ practised (Beard 1899, I arpenter 1857, Glaser 1905, Pelseneer 

 [904, Roberl 1902 bj the growing -nail, a capsule containing snails 

 read\ to hatch will hold hut 8 I I- 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OK 



[June, 



f Chemical compounds 

 dissolved in sea water 



Young Gull 



ult Gulls 



(Pollack and cunner) 



I -Diagram illustrating the principal relations of Thais to its organic 

 environment in the Rock Association. To be complete this diagram should 



show an entire cycle of the material. Each one of the organisms listed 

 above gives off liquids to the sea water that may be again used. They also 

 furnish Bolids either as waste products or by death, which, when acted on 

 by bacteria, will give more soluble matter as well as a residual solid that 

 will help contribute to the sea bottom in other localities The dead animals 

 will supply food for amphipods, the amphipods food for fishes like the 



BCulpin, and so relations are established with other associations. This 

 diagram shows that the biota of the Rock Association is dependent alone 

 on the palagic formation. The relationships with other associations arc 

 destructive to it rather than constructive. 



The young snail has enemies in the shape of fish, so those which 

 fail to take refuge in small cracks in the rocks are destroyed. At 

 this time the food consists of young mussels which grow abundantly 

 in the joints in the rocks. If one does not know where to look for 

 the young snails, none will be seen, so far are they crowded into the 

 crack- . 



A few pollack that were caught at high water over a Thais 

 habitat had their stomachs full of young Littorina palliata which 

 they had eaten from the same locality in which Thais lives. L. 

 palliata cannot hide in the rock cracks, as their food is on the Fucus 

 stems. If the fish could find young Thais, there is no reason why 

 they should not be eaten as well as Littorina. 



Although the young snails are hatching throughout the greater 

 part of the summer, most of them hatch out in August and reach 

 between 10-15 mm. in the first winter. This is measured by large 

 ridges on the shell, which indicate periods of rest in the growth of 

 the shell. These rest periods are assumed to indicate the winter, 

 but are not proved to correspond to it. 




L916. 



NATURAL S< [EN< BS <>F PHILADELPHIA. 



443 



The curves in fig. 2 show the rate ol growth in three differenl 

 environments. These are but approximations. Further study may 

 show that the first year may be really the second. 



The oldest snail found was estimated a- being seven years old. 

 The great majority are about two or three years old. 



Cooke (1895) estimates that each female snail lays two hundred 

 egg capsules a year. Each capsule contains about four hundred 



l 



6 YEARS 



I 



1'" I seems i<> \»- in tnosl places abundant. The snails have 



been observed to be limited in aumber by tin- following factors: 



! Cannibalism within th ipsule, onlj ten to twelve hatch- 



ing «.iii. of :;<>u WO 



2 I inn- i.. ili.' aumber that can tal in cracks in i<>rk- 



and yi h to ea1 . 



I i-li such as pollack, will gobble up ai 

 l Half-grown snails, ones too big for the pollacl ed by 



herring gulls :i» food, the empty shells being regurgitated. 




\ 1 I PROl I I DINGS I 'l l 111 \< IDEM! OF 



5 Very large specimens are carried by the gulls to a height and 

 dropped on any near-by fiat rock in the Bameway as the gulls treat 

 both sea urchin- Strongylocentrotus) and welks (Buccinum). 

 Only the largest Purpura will break and only the largest arc collected 

 for this purpose. 



6 i ertain ones seem to be parasitized by a sporocyst, but. thi< 

 nol investigated. 



(7) Accidents, such as a Burf heavy enough to move the rock- on 

 which the animals live, may destroy others. In such habitats few 

 if any are found. The maximum size of these rock- may in exposed 

 places be boulders two to three feet in diameter, while in very shel- 

 tered places Thais will be found on pebbles two inches in diameter. 

 The limit is obviously determined by wave action. 



(8) be probably destroys others, as they are not found in places 

 where shore ice can accumulate. 



a In Maine they are not abundant in shallow coves that freeze 

 up solid in the winter time. 



b) Their geographical distribution also seems to indicate that. 

 -and beaches are a barrier, as Thais lapillus is not found west of 

 MOntauk Point. On Long Island Sound the barrier has not been 

 determined. Both Balanus and Mytilus being found west of Stam- 

 ford. Conn., the mosl westerly recorded station for Thais, and the 

 shore is still rocky. In the north shore ice seemed to form the 

 barrier See map, fig. 3. 



Various adaptations are at once manifest on examining this 

 animal: (lj The strong shell, so strong that a drop from a height 

 will not always break it. (2) The strong foot, which makes dis- 

 lodgment from its substratum difficult. (3) Its habit of seeking 

 -belter under rocks and fucus. (4) The method of egg-laying, with 

 its protection of the young until they are able to care for themselves, 

 although if but two and a quarter per cent, of these laid hatch, those 

 two and a quarter per cent, are almost sure to hatch. 



Method. 



As each station was visited, from 200 to 500 shells were collected 

 when Thais was abundant. In some places they literally covered 

 every inch of the rock. In other places they were so rare that a 

 careful search of a quarter of a mile of beach would often disclose 

 but two or three. 



Each collection as made was placed in a bag made of mosquito 

 netting. While still alive the snails were sorted into the dozen or 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIEN( BS «>F PHILADELPHIA. 



145 



so groups of the principal varieties. The number in each group was 

 tabulated. For future reference the bag of snails was preserved in a 

 tub of formalin. 



A study of the color varieties seems bo show that there are a number 

 of colors and patterns that may be combined together in any sort 

 of way. These are as follow-: 



(1) Pure white shells that -how no trace of color. 



(2) Purple. The color in this case is diffuse through the shell, 

 but is darker within the aperture. 



Fig. 3.- Map of the North Atlantic Ocean showing the distribution of Thais 



Purpura or Nucella) lapUliu Mter Cooke, Proc. Mai. Soc London, 



vol. II. p L93 The cross-hatching shows the occurrence of T lapillus. 



The southern barrier to T. lapilius is nol clear, but the northern barrier is 



obviously the presence of ice on the shore. 



(3) Chestnut. This color may be pure quite often, but it is 

 usually combined with purple, forming ;i chocolate, or with yellow, 

 forming olive. 



(4; Yellow i- a color which, when uncombined with one of the 

 other-, makes the -hell very conspicuous on the rock-. Owing to 

 its relative rarity and to its being so conspicuous, il often appears 

 in shell collections in proportions that are misleading. Only by 

 collecting all the Emails from a given locality can this be avoided. 



(5) Diluii . Every one of the color- mentioned above maj appear 

 in a dilute in contrast to it- intense form. 




1 It. PROt I l DINGS "i i HE Ki \l>l M\ 1 1] [.lime. 



II hit< Up of the apperture is quite common Id some localities. 

 In fact, purple is rarely found no1 associated with :t trace of lighter 

 color on the lip. This whiU lip may i>c combined with all colors 

 and dilutions. 



7 Narrow stripes. In many shells about ten narrow white stripes 

 are found on any color background. These are sometimes associated 

 with the ridges which appear on manj -hells. 



(8) Widi stripes of white usually two in number, often appear. 

 The widesl stripe equals two or three of the narrow ours and the 

 smaller stripe is double the width of the narrow ones. The widesl 

 stripe is always posterior to the narrower stripe. 



(9) Spot of purple on the columella. This is rare at Mount Desert, 

 but very common at Rye Beach, New Hampshire. 



in Imbricata. A Muting of the ridges of the shell gives rise to 

 the variety called by Lamarck imbricata. 



Apparently each one of the ten characters recognized may be 

 combined with any other. If this is so there must be 1,103 varieties. 

 Not that many varieties have been found. This is due to the fact 

 that one cannot distinguish certain combinations from one another. 

 As an example,' let us consider the case of the colors alone. We have 

 purple, chestnut, yellow, and white. There are eight possible combi- 

 nations of these: white, purple, chestnut, yellow, purple-chestnut, 

 purple-yellow, chestnut-yellow and purple-chestnut-yellow. These 

 las! tour an- shades of olive and chocolate, and cannot be distinguished 

 easily from one another, [f we combine these four color combina- 

 tions into one group and omit the white lip and purple spot on the 

 columella, we will reduce the possible number of variations to be 

 recognized from 1,103 to 33. Twenty-eight of these thirty-three 

 varieties have Keen recognized. However, there are five that are 

 so rare that they were not diseovered in a collection of six thousand 

 shells when they were particularly soughl after. These were narrow 

 stripe dilute yellow, wide stripe narrow stripe yellow, wide stripe 

 narrow -tripe dilute yellow, narrow stripe dilute olive, and wide 

 stripe dilute olive. The yellow- which contribute to the olive color 

 and the dilute are much rarer than any of the other.-, so it is no 

 wonder that t hey are the ones that, would be lacking in combinations. 



It is obviously impossible to attempt to correlate all the known 

 varieties with environmental factors, so the write]' has for the sake 

 of convenience reduced still further the number of groups. The 

 particular group- recognized are ;,- follows: 

 1 | White; that. 1-, pure white. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



2) Light — pure white, together with intense and dilute chestnut 

 with white lip. The outer layer of the shell of these is white. 



3) Dark -chestnut and purple in all their combinations. 

 1 Yellow — pure yellow. 



(5) Striped— both narrow and wide stripe in all their combinations 

 and color. 



('6) Imbricated — in all the combinations of pattern- and colors. 



In the tables that, follow the number of snails found in each group 

 bated in per cent, of all the snails in each collection from a given 

 station. 



Tin: Relation of the Variei les ro mi: IX \ [ronment. 



The base for this study was Greenings Island, an island lo 

 between Nbrtheasl and Southwesl Harbors in the mouth of Some- 

 Sound. It is triangular in shape, with a perimeter of about two and 

 a quarter miles. The main mass of the island is composed of till, 



which at one time formed the terminal i 'aine of the cunt mental 



glacier before it. retired from Somes Sound. This till i- protected 

 from rapid wave erosion by outcrop- of reddish granite at the '-:i-t 

 and wesl end of the island. Tin- granite is cut in several place- by 

 broad basaH dykes which inn in a general north and south direction. 

 Under wave erosion the nil between the outcrop- of solid rock- has 

 ii material to form .i boulder-strewn beach and in favorable 

 places the finer product- have given rise to pebble and sandy beaches. 

 • >n the wesl or more sheltered side of the island between the granite 

 outcrop- are a number of muddy co> i 



< »n tin- small island we have all the principal Littoral associations 

 present. The distribution of these are found in lii:. 1. This figure 

 i- a diagram of the shore of < Ireenings Island, with the vertical scale 

 very much exaggerated. It has been made as though theshorewere 

 cut at the Qorthwestern point and folded out so thai this north- 

 western point appear- at each end of the diagram. The character 

 of the shore is indicated. The island as a whole i- protected from 

 heavy surf by outlying islands, bul the eastern end \t exposed to the 

 in swell from both the south and east, and at tune- of storms is 

 subject to unite a surf. The northeast shore and south shore are 

 tively unprotected at the east end, but become mure protected 

 toward the west. ( »n the diagram the per cent, of pure white shells 

 are placed in the locality in which the collection was made. 



An inspection of this figure will -how that the most unprotected 

 portion has the lighest colored snails, while the portion of the island 




44S 



i DINGS "i i HE \> \m.\n 01 



[June, 



Hi 



u 



cr 

 o 



J.NICU ANN 



o 



or 

 O 



.NIOd 



N\J31SV3 



> 

 o 

 u 







>noa >ovig 



££$ 



1 site 



WgSogo'ooF 



<Wi ' If 



■ o 



K 



2 -LNIOd AS 



X 



INIOd AN 



D 



o 



□ 



E - 



— _= 



- < 



- - 



2 



£ 



i _ 



a « c 



_ - 



► c 



- „ ♦-■ 





— - s 



.-. - i, g> 





3-3 



.- r - i' 



— V. •- 



'- 



— _ - — N 



m Qua ••! ~ 

 d ^ 3 h d § 



| a * • a r 



— — _S o 



*S ■ - £ i • - 

 .29 - 



— _r '~ '- ~ 



"£ i£.=f . *» N 



:_. = -— — — i 



" 7, 3 8 * | 



~ — X — - Ui 



. s h 8 a & - 



a — - . ■ 



— T . — — 



^ v 5_£~ •- 



~ u= - 3d 



= - =- c 



3 1* a S s 



rf J3 — S fa J: 



' 1 - 5 E 1 QQ 



» CO 3 03'^ 



Si 8 !.** 



■~ z ~ — • - 



■~ _ "- - _ « 



"si •ill 



5s 9 d ** Ja : 



g - S ._ ;-~ 



l.'l ^ -~ 




1916.] NATURAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



subject to the smoothest water has the darkest. This difference is 

 very striking and the intermediate stations show intermediate ratios. 



This has led the writer to classify the shores according to the waves. 



These are arbitrary divisions and of course every intergradation is 



found, but in most cases there is very little hesitation how a given 



>n should be described. If a great, uncertainty exists, the station 



was placed in both class s 



■ iff or surf exposed to the open 3ea. An ordinary row boat 

 can practically never land with safety. 



Bay exposed to a moderate 3urf during high winds. Kxcept at 

 those times a small boal can easily land on the shore without, danger 

 of accident. 



Harbor so smooth' that a row boal •■an practically always uiai. 

 landing. 



In the tallies which follow the station- oearesl - r are always 

 compared. 



Table I. 



< kmdi- 3l tion No. of 



Locality. tion. No. Individuals. Ll White. 



Bakers 1-1 Surf. 65 6.1 



Hay. 24 167 6 



Seal Harbor Suit. 54 17" 2.8 



Bay. 56 34 li 



[d - 1" 319 4.3 



Surf. 11 L95 59 9.7 



13 204 15 5.7 



We can conclude that in general the snails on the mosl exposed 

 aitu darker than those found in t he b 



Tabi i. II. 



ttdi- No. of 



Locality. tion. No. [ndividuab Lt. White. 



I,i 2 516 



II a-bor. 31 10 1* 



Buckel Id B L5 



Harbor. L6 218 



Bear Id I 13 277 24 



II rbor. H ''7 l«»J li 



< hrono Id I 19 117 



is 184 27 



Soutl ■ l! 194 19 



li 196 .">J 



boi Ml 



II 17 17J 




150 



l'K<>< EEDINGS "I l III M \lil\n OF 



[June, 



If we combine the conclusion from Table I with Table II we 



that -nails in the exposed positions tend to be dark as well as those 



in the sheltered places, while those in the bay shore tend to be the 



ter colored. 



The following table includes the results of collections made at 



ions separated by no barrier, near together, but on a substratum 



of differenl colored rock-. The numerous Mark basalt dykes that 



ywhere cu1 the red granite make a number of collections of this 



possible. < 'nly a very few of the possible one- have been studied. 



In general, more light-colored -nails are found on the rod rocks 

 than on tin- Mack rock-. The association of yellow forms with the 

 environment is inconelu>ive. There does not seem to be any correla- 

 tion from these few cases. Thirty-three collections from red rocks 

 ige V , yellow. Fifteen collections from Mack rocks average 

 yellow. 



In tM- region there are occasional outcrops of a banded rock, a 

 chlorite - That there might be a correlation Wet ween striped 



forms and schisi is a possibility that may be investigated. The 

 collection- from the red granite given in the table are, those made 

 nearest to the chlorite schist. This comparison was not in mind 

 when the collection- were made, -<> the stations are often several 

 miles apart. 




1916.] NATURAL >F PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Table IV. 



Locality. Substratum. Striped Shells. 



Blue Hill Bay Chlorite schisl l.r, 



Red granite 



\\ estern Way < !hlori1 27 



Red g I s - collec- 



tions from this region 1 l : 



Western Way Chlorite schisl 27 



Nearesl Granite Station Red granite I s ' 



Tin- distance aparl of the stations introduces so many other factors 

 that, with such meagre 'lata no conclusions can be drawn. The 

 writer expects that the results are really negative. 



The relative proportions of tin- imbricated forms from differenl 

 localities are a- follows: 



In the upper bays the water i- much warmer than near the ocean. 

 This warmth i- indicated at Blue Hill by bathhouses being located 

 along the beaches. None of the resorts farther down the bays have 



any, the water being I old for bathing in the bay in those places. 



The tipper bays air relatively -hallow and there ate muddy spots 

 found on the rocky beaches between the rock-. Five stations in this 

 region had imbricata ranging from 38* , to 96* , . 



In the middle bay region of Blue Hill Bay the water i- deep and 

 the rocky shores arc clean. No imbricata were found in the three 

 stations in this region. 



The western side of lower Blue Hill Bay i- -hallow, with many 

 islands and Ledges. Among these islands there an' many mud Mat-, 

 and the same conditions are found on the upper haw Five stations 



had imbricata ranging In mi !»' , 



Near the islands separating the lower bay from tl 'can the 



water i-. in general, deep and the rocky shores clean. Five stations, 

 (i .">'.', imbricata. 



» )n the outer islands the surf, of necessity, keeps the rocks 

 from sedimenl . Two stations, 17 57* , . 



In Somes Sound environmental conditions similar to those in 



Blue Hill Bay are found. The rock- are muddy in the harboi 



mud Hat.- and clean where wave action is possible and the water l- 



deep. If we except 'wo stations a1 'he Southwesl Harbor steam- 

 boat wharf , where the ratio of ua-l'.t', and I!" J »ect- 

 ively, the av< hirty-five stations containing 7 l L9 individuals 



■ these eighteen collectioi 




152 PB0< BEDING8 01 mi. W \m.\n OF [.June, 



was only .47%. The largest number tout id was but. ;>V , at any one 

 station and that was on the rocks <>f a muddy harbor. The station 

 in Somes Harbor farthesl away from the ocean had but .('»', nnhricatu. 

 That there air other geographical factors is shown by the rarity 

 of imbricata in the Somes Sound region. Very few .-in- found in 

 ised situations on the Cranberry [slands and on Seal Harbor 

 Head, situations exposed i" the full effort of the surf. Except for 

 a colony at the Southwest Harbor steam-boat wharf, in bhe whole 



Somes Sound region they arc indeed rare. < hit. of 2,765 shells 

 collected on Greenings Island but three were imbricated and the.-e 

 three were found at one station on the muddy west side of the island. 



However, in general, we can say that the imbricated forms are 

 found in greatest abundance in exposed situations, as Duck Island 

 and Long Island, and also in the most sheltered positions. 



Most of the varieties found in the Atlantic are also found in the 

 furm> inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean. Dall 2 reports that the 

 lamellated forms of Thais in that region are found best developed 

 in sheltered harbors. The Atlantic lamellated forms we have seen 

 may occur in sheltered as well as in exposed situations. 



\- Thais is found in both the Balanus and the Mytilus Zones, is 

 there any difference between collections made close together but 

 in different zones? The answer to this question is summed up in 

 the following table (Table V) compiled from collections made but a 

 few feet apart, but in different zones. 



Table V. 



Imbri- 

 Locality. /(inc. Sta. Lt. Wt. Yd. St, cata. 



i n tr~. M.. 



tern point Balan 2 !!..". 21.3 o ? ' 



Mytilus. 50 :;7.:» •_"_'.:» 14.4 



i-boat wharf, 

 8 u II Balanus. :;: -".».:» 19. 17..") 1.5 19.0 



Mytilus. 17 It.:, 6.4 LI 37 19.2 



Stanley II 

 wharf, S. W. H Balanv 35 25.3 11 2.2 4.0 



Mytilus. 34 21.4 4.8 5.3 



1 There are more light forms in the white Balanus Zone than 

 in the dark Mytilus Zone. 



2 There are truer yellow forms in the dark Mytilus Zone. 

 Striped form- not conclusive. 



\ Imbricated forms not affected. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus vol. 19, pp. 557 572 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Natural Sele< tion. 



Natural selection, we can assume, is most severe on Little Duck 

 Island. This little island, lying four miles out at sea, is exposed to 

 the surf on every side. The herring gull, one of the chief enemies 

 of adult. Thins, has a rookery on the island, and every summer thou- 

 sands of birds roosl there at night and have their nests. Everywhere 

 regurgitated Thai- shells cover the rocks, which tell a story of a 

 struggle for existence. 



In collecting on this island for two hour- but four hundred and 

 twenty-nine living snails were found. These were discovered at the 

 lower edg< of the Mytilus Zone. All had been picked off the rocks 

 aboVe by the gulls. This collection is chiefly notable in containing 

 a very large proportion of dark individuals, only l.l per cent, white 

 were found. Nineteen percent, were imbricated. 



[1 can be said with justification thai where the struggle for exist- 

 ence is greatest on the exposed islands and the muddy harbors 

 Hon tends to preserve the dark-colored and the lamellated 

 forms. 



CON( l.i SIONS. 



A study of the color varieties bad- one t<> tin- conclusion thai they 

 are hereditary and thai we arc dealing with things thai an- probably 

 unit, characters. Even the development of lamella?, a- in imbricata, 

 are not, modifications caused by induction thai i- caused by the direcl 

 action of the environment . 



\- t (,. I-, are greal differences between tin' ratio of the color varieties 

 present in differenl localities, we assume thai natural selection is 

 acting. 



In the bay environment conditions are al an optimum. X<> mud 

 film covers the Mytilus, and Balanus forms crusts over the rock 

 inch to an inch and :i half thick. Here Thai is most abundant. 

 I e hundred can '"• gathered in ten minute- or even less. A handful 

 can (».■ L r at hered a1 one scoop. 



In th< surf environment the barnacles do not form such thick 

 crusts. ■ »n the harbor shore ice deatroj - I he barnacles in the winter 

 ;md a mud him covers the mussels. So thai the barnacles are usually 

 small and far apart, while the mussels art separated by mud from 

 the rock-. Sand and mud are barriers to Tha Uthough tin 

 surf environmenl and the harbor environment arc the antithesis of 

 one another, yet they have man} effects on Thai thai are similar. 

 These effects are as follow 




l"'l PRO< l EDINGS "l l HE \.C \iu.\n OF [.June. 



l The curve of growth, fig. '_'. -hows thai those in the surf 

 environment at a given age arc smaller than those from the bay 

 environment. 



-' There is a tendency toward dark individuals. 

 There is a tendency toward lamellated form-. 

 These studies show thai natural selection has some determining 

 action on the color varieties present. (1) It, has been shown that 

 the color of the rock-, whether dark or light, has an effect. (2 it 

 has been shown that the white barnacle-covered rocks contain more 

 light-colored our- than those on the mussel bed bu1 a few feet away. 

 It has been pointed ou1 that those living on rock- near mud 

 flats are darker than on the more exposed points of 'he same islands. 

 The presenl study must leave the question of the relation of the 

 yellow form- and the striped form- to the color of their substratum 

 yet unsettled. 



In general, however, there is a relation between the color and the 

 environment. This relation i- caused by natural selection and not 

 by the direct action of the environment. 



List of Literature. 



Beard, .1. L899. Principles of Animal Development. I. The Whelks Egg. 



Nat. ><i.. XIV, pp. L31-137. 

 Blanky, I) l'.iut. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. XXXII. No. 2. 

 Carpenter, \\ 1857. < >n the Development of Purpura. An Mag. Nat. 



Bist., 2d Series, Vol. XX. 

 Cooke, A. II 1895. Cambridge Natural History, Vol. Ill, The Mollusks, 



pp. 69, 90. 

 Cooke, A. II. 1915. Proc. Mai. Soc London, p. 193. 

 Glaser, 0. C 1905. Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Fasciolaria tulipa (var. 



distai - Z< • t. vriss. Zool., Bd. LXXX, p. 80. 

 Goi i.n. A., and Binnet,W.G. 1869. Invertebrates of Massachusetts, 2d Ed., 



Boston, pp. 360 362. 

 Kino, L. A. L., and Russell, E. S. 1909. A Method for the Study o 



Animal Ecology of the Shore. Proc. Roy. Phys. Soc. of Ed., Vol. XVII, 



pp. 225 2 



i:. P. 1904. Le Mode de Nutrition des Embryons de Purpura lapillus. 



Cong. Zoo].. VI, pp. 343-345. 

 Robert, A. 1902. Recherches but le developpemenl des Troques. Arch. 



Zoo -<t.. X. N< 



lpord, V. 1913. Anima! Communit Temperate America, Univ. of 



Chit 



i-\. R. C, and Cole, L.J. 1911. \ Biological Survey of 



the V Wood- Hole and Vicinity. Bull, of the Buri 



Vol. XXXI. 

 Walter. 1910. Variations in Urosalpinx. Am. Nat., Vol. XLIV, No. 526 

 ber. 




1916.1 NATURAL S( [ENCB8 OF PHILADELPHIA. L55 



NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF GASTROPODA FROM THE UPPER 

 CRETACEOUS. 1 



BY BRUCE WADE. 



The extent of the Gastropod fauna discovered in the Upper 

 Cretaceon- of Tennessee and the remarkable state of preservation 

 of the hitherto unknown generic types warrant the present pre- 

 liminary account of some of the more interesting. 



The locality is on Coon ( Ireek, in the northeastern part of McNairy 

 ( lounty, in west-central Tennessee, and a somewhat detailed accounl 

 has been published recently in the Johns Hopkins Circular. The 

 horizon is in the lower part of the Ripley formation and h< nee some- 

 what older than the classic ' >wl I !reek fauna of the Ripley of Tippah 

 ( !ounty, Mississippi. 2 



Family CANCELLARIID^E. 

 MATAXA 



Etymolog -■■■:". c >on. 



Type: Mataxa elegans -p. nov. 



Shell of medium size and thickness; spire obtuse, its altitude less 

 than half the entire length of the shell; protoconch large and smoothly 

 polished, the earliest volutions for the mosl pari submerged and 

 increasing rapidly in size, thrice-coiled in tin- type-species; conch 

 solid and slightrj glazed, paucispiral, external sculpture subdued, 

 axial sculpture Bubdued or absent; aperture broadly lenticular and 

 produced anteriorly in a comparatively long recurved canal: outer 

 lip expanded and dentate internally; parietal wall widely and heavily 

 glazed; columella marked by two Btrong oblique plan- situated far 

 in and behind 'wo or more marginal plait-. 



This genus i- proposed tor a species represented at Cood i 

 by perfectly preserved elegant shells and mm. 



Published by permission ol I h \ II P 



The writer wishes to acknowlcdf P I v. Bi and 



if I ll«' .loir :y, nuclei 



work was done; to Dr. W. H. Dall and Dt I \\ - 



Survey, and es] ulU to l>i J. N\ Stephci 



has bi \ 



of the < is of l In I .mi. ivuienl r< gion 




156 PRO( i i DINGS 01 i in \< \m.\n 01 [July, 



described and figured by StoHczka 1 in lSi>7 from South India and 

 referred to the Cancellariidse. It. differs from CanceUaria, in gen- 

 eral, by the development of a well-defined canal, by its lack of sharp 

 and conspicuous cancellate sculpture, and tint her by its less acumi- 

 nate spire. It. differs from Narona, a subgenus of CanceUaria, in 

 having a Longer canal, a spire less acutely elevated, an anterior 

 colurhellar plait more elevated than the posterior, instead oi less so. 

 Probably Mataxa is nearer the rare recent, subgenus Massyla* than 

 any other form in I be genus ( 'ana Uaria, but in I his comparison, too, 

 there are generic and time differences so greal thai it seems advisable 

 to assign the Tennessee and South Indian forms to a new genus. 

 Mataxa differs from Massi/la in possessing a thicker, stouter and 

 more solidly I milt shell; in having a comparatively long recurved 

 canal, and further in nuclear characters. The protoconch of Massyla 

 is trochoid, while in the nucleus of Mataxa the early volution- are 

 for the most part submerged. , 



Mataxa elegans sp. nov. PI. XXIII, figs. 1, 2, 3 



Description.— Shell of medium size, ovate in outline; spire less 

 than half the entire Length of the shell; whorls of conch three and a 

 half in number; protoconch large, smooth and obtuse, thrice coiled, 

 the first and second volutions for the most part, immersed and coiled 

 in a single plane, the final whorl of the protoconch moderately 

 elevated, increasing rapidly in size; surface of conch slightly glazed 

 and inconspicuously sculptured; axials reduced to fine incremental 

 and one or two exaggerated resting stages; spiral sculpture of low, 

 broad, flattened bands, eight in number upon the penultima of the 

 type, the two posterior the widest and separated from one another 

 by a wide and rather dee]) sulcus; body spirals very obscure, increas- 

 ingly so toward the aperture, more than 30 in number, interspaces 

 wider than the spirals and very shallow, excepting directly in front 

 of the -ut ure; suture impressed; aperture more than half the entire 

 length of the shell, lenticular in outline and produced anteriorly into 

 a comparatively long canal; outer lip marked internally by 10 or 12 

 regularly -paced Urate denticles; columella reinforced with two 

 rather >trong oblique folds a little less than half way between the 

 of the body and the anterior extremity of the aperture and a 

 lesfi prominent marginal fold and occasionally a fourth feeble plication 



1 Stoliczka, F., Cretaceous Fauna of South India, Geol. Surv. India, \>. 166, 

 PI. XII, 1867. 

 ' Adams, H. and A., Genera <>f Recenl Mollusca, 1855, vol. I, p. 278. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENl ES OP PHILADELPHIA. 157 



behind the margin; anterior fasciole rather Bhort, moderately wide, 

 emarginate at the extremity. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 23.4 mm.; maximum diameter, 13 mm.: 

 spiral angle, 57°. 



This form is well characterized by it- somewhat buccinoid outline 

 and rather low. obtuse -pit'', subdued spiral sculpture, the slightly 

 flaring outer lip and plicate inner lip. Tin- species is represented 

 in the Coon ('reck collection by two perfect specimens which are 

 remarkable for shells as old as the Cretaceous on account of their 

 state of preservation. The individuals possess a certain freshness 

 of appearance and shell-color that remind one of recenl gastropods 

 lately recovered from the water. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family VOLUTID^J. 

 - TECTAPLICA gen 



Etymology: tecta, hidden; plica, fold. 



Type: Tectaplica simplica sp. uov. 



Shell of medium size, thick and strong; rudely biconic in outline; 

 spire about one third tin- entire length nf the -hell: apex acute; 

 protoconch broken away, scar small; whorls very much appressed; 

 Bculpture dominantly axial; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly 

 mtii :i slightly bent canal; outer lip simple; inner lip callous; parietal 



wall glazed; columella marked l.y three weak but well-defined folds, 



terminating far within the margin of the aperture. 



This genus is well characterized by a thick, strong and simple shell 

 which ha- a columella marked by feeble folds, h is one of the mosl 

 primitive of the Volutes and ma) !"■ considered as ancesl rally related 

 bo V olutilithes. It differs from I olutilithes in having a less elongate 

 spire, which i- oattisb on the Bides and no1 interrupted b) pro- 

 nounced Bhoulders. V olutilithes is typically spinose and has an 

 inner lip usually well excavated and marked bj prominent folds, 



which extend well OUt "ii the inner lip. 

 Tectaplica simplica ip 001 PI XXIII Bf 1 



Description, shell of medium size, biconic in outline; spire 

 acuminate, less than one thud the entire length of the shell; whorls 

 very closely appressed, -i\ in number on conch; axial slopes flattish; 

 protoconch broken away, scar -mall; external sculpture dominantl) 

 axial, consisting "t tin prominenl broadly rounded costs increasing 

 toward the aperture, crossed by very many taint spiral ridges, 




l.'.s PROCEEDINGS OF in J \« \iu\n OF |.Iuly. 



summit of costae unmarked by lira-: posterior fasciole indicated by < be 

 weakening of the axial sculpture; sutures inconspicuous, aperturt 

 lanceolate produced anteriorly into a long canal; outer lip simple; 

 inner lip fallow- and parietal wall glazed, callus concentrated just 

 below the posterior commissure of the aperture; columella marked 

 l>y three well-defined but feeble folds terminal ing wit hin t he apei tun . 

 posterior fasciole indicated by abrupl constriction of incrementals. 



Dimensions.- Altitude, 35 mm.; maximum diameter, L3 nun.; 

 spiral ang 20'. 



This very simple, primitive Volute is represented in the present 

 I oon Creek collection by a single individual. The folds of this form 

 terminate bo far within the aperture that it i- accessary to section the 

 spire in order'to observe the columellar plaits. 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation: Dave- Weeks Place, on ( oon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Genua DRILLUTA gen. nov. 



Etymology: A contraction of the generic terms Drillia and 

 Valuta. 



Type: Drilluta communis sp. nov. 



Shell strong and fusiform; spire elevated; whorls numerous, 

 increasing slowly in diameter; protoconch very small and smooth; 

 sculpture dominantly axial, the costae interrupted in front of the 

 sutural line by a well-defined bu1 rather narrow fasciole; aperture 

 lenticular, produced anteriorly into a long, gently recurved canal; 

 miter lip broadly arcuate, simple within; inner lip calloused; colu- 

 mella bearing one well-defined oblique fold, frequently with one or 

 two minor folds behind it, all of which evanesce before reaching the 

 aperture. 



This genus includes a well-defined and widely distributed group 



of the Volutidae, some of which are undescribed and some that have 



been described have been variously assigned to such genera as 



Drillia, Voluta, Fasciolaria and Fusus. Drilluta may be readily 



separated from Drillia by the absence ^( a posterior siphonal notch 



and further by the presence of columellar plaits on the Volute. The 



typical Voluta has a lower Bpire and numerous transverse folds. 



olaria has a more inflated body whorl and is not characterized 



by a well-defined posterior fasciole as is the case with Drilluta. 



,, on account of its smooth columella cannot be confused with 



Drilluta. There are two well-defined groups among the DriUuta, 



seems advisable to separate this group into two sections. 




l'.'lti NATURAL S( [EN< I.- OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



- 'ion A. New section. 



Type: Drilluta communis sp. nov. 



Tliis section is characterized by shells of medium size with well 

 rounded axial- and a variable Dumber of columella plaits which 

 terminate within the aperture. The spiral sculpture is very fine on 

 the spiral whorl- and young individuals but well-defined on the 

 anterior part of the body of adult individuals, and Lacking on the 

 posterior part of the older whorls of such individuals. This section 

 i- proposed to include besides the ' oon Creek species the form 

 ■■ Drittia .' distant" < lonrad 8 from < >wl ( !reek, a closely related species 

 from < lorsicana, Texas, and a poorly preserved specimen from Bright- 

 Maryland. The descriptions and figures of Voluta lativittata 

 Griepenkerl 3 and Voluta canalifera Favr< '.. Muller 7 indii 

 generic and sectional relation- nearer to Section A of Drilluta than 

 my other form- thai have been found in the literature. 



Drilluta communis -\> oov. PI XXIII, figs 5 and 6. 



Description. Shell of medium size and fusiform in outline; spire 

 elevated, it- altitude approximately one-halt the entire length of the 

 shell; apical angle higher on the posterior pan of the 3pire, becoming 

 slightly lower on the younger whorl-: protoconch very -mouth and 

 trochoid, coiled about three nine-; whorl- of conch closely appressed 

 and eight in number; both axial and spiral sculpture developed, the 

 former dominant, axial costse rounded and abruptly elevated, 11 to 

 17 in number to the whorl. 11 on the penultima of the type, costse 

 flexuous, uniform in strength from the posterior fasciole to the 



anterior suture and a little less than half way down to the base ol 



the body on the ultima: fasciole narrowed, indistinctly marked on 

 the early \\ horls, defined in the later whorls by the abrupt disappear- 

 ance of the axial costse; spiral sculpture of fine crowded impressed 

 lines on apical whorls, becoming fainl and almost disappearing on 

 the medial part of older whorl-, but reappearing as coarse, impn 

 hue- on slope of body whorl, becoming fainl and disappearing on 

 anterior fasciole; suture impressed; body whorl sloping down smoothly 

 into a broad pillar; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorl) in! 

 very feebly recurved canal: inner lip callous; outer hp simple; colu- 

 mella marked l>> one well-defined fold and one or two weaker posterior 



1 lonrad, T \ . Philadelphia, 2d sei vol IV, p 



Iriepenkerl ; Band IV, Hel 



- 

 M Idler, G 1800, Abhand I ' ' I 



16. p. 124, Taf . xi I I I I I 

 31 




160 PBOI BEDINGS OF THE A.CADBMY OF [July. 



folds, all uf which evanesce before reaching the aperture, plioatione 

 invisible in the aperture 



Dimensions. Altitude, 62 mm.; length of aperture, :'>! mm.; 

 maximum diameter. 20 mm.; spiral angle, 40° on posterior whorls, 

 decreasing to '_'•> on anterior whorls. 



This species is one of the most abundant and besl preserved 

 univalves at Coon Creek. It shows a considerable range in size 

 and external ornamentation. Some of the young individuals exhibit 

 a fine spiral sculpture over the entire length of the shell. The number 

 of columellar plaits is variable. These terminate far within the bodj 

 whorl, distant from the margin of the aperture, and in many indi- 

 viduals are almost entirely obscured, although they are readily 

 revealed by sectioning the spire. A comparison of this form with 

 two other members of the section of the genus, one from Owl Creek, 

 the type locality of "DriUia ? distans" Conrad and the other from 



* lorsicana, Texas, indicates that the Coon Creek species is interme- 

 diate between those cited. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 < !reek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Section B. New section. 



Type: DriUuta major sp. nov. 



This section is characterized by a large, much elevated and 

 elaborately sculptured shell. The whorls are abruptly shouldered. 

 The posterior shoulder is marked by spinous regularly spaced varix- 

 like projections. It is proposed for a well-defined group of DriUuta 

 which include, besides the Coon Creek species, a species from Owl 



• Ireek and another from Brightseat, Maryland, which has been 

 questionably referred to Fasciolaria* on account of the imperfect 

 character of the material. The description and figures of Voluta 

 magnified ( Iriepenkerl 9 and Voluta (Volutilithes) subsemiplicata 

 (d'Orbigny) G. Miiller 10 present generic and sectional relations which 

 suggest tiii- section of Drilluta. 



DriUuta major -i> dov. PI. XXIII, figs. 7 and 8. 



Description. Shell thick and large, fusoid in outline; whorls closely 

 appressed, seven in number and increasing slowly in size; apex 



■Gardner, .J. A., M<1. Geol. Surv., 1916, Cretaceous, Upper, \>. 138, pL xiv. 

 fig 11 



: h |k nk<il, <)., 1NX9, I'alaemdotogische Abhandl., Berlin, Hand I\ . Heft •">. 

 p 94 396 . 'Int. viii. fig. 2. 



••Miiller, G., L899, Abhandl. d. Kdn. Preus. geol. Landesanstall, aeue Folge, 

 Heft 25, p. 123, Taf. xvi, figs. 10-18-21. 




1916.] NATURAL S< IK\< IBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



acute, broken away, but protoconch as indicated by the scar probably 

 very small; whorls of spire slightly flattened dorso-ventrally, con- 

 stricted posteriorly, ultima merging smoothly into a wide pillar: 

 external ornamentation quite coarse and elaborate; axial sculpture 

 of rounded quite strongly elevated costa? waving backward along 

 the shoulder, 11 to 14 to the volution, costse becoming shorter and 

 less prominent on approaching the aperture, on young whorls costse 

 reach from posterior fasciole to anterior suture, but become shorter 

 anteriorly and occur only along the shoulder of the whorl; posterior 

 part of whorl constricted and marked by a narrow posterior fasciole 

 set with closely spaced spinose, varix-like processes, most of these 

 processes broken away in type; spiral sculpture absent on firsl three 

 apical whorls, becoming more prominent anteriorly until conspicuous 

 on body whorl; more than thirty strongly elevated spirals on body 

 whorl, spirals more widely spaced on medial portion of body whorl; 



spirals along medial portion of body somewhat arcuate (in type with 

 most gentle slope anteriorly; body whorl sloping gently into a broad 

 pillar; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal: 

 inner lip calloused, parietal wall thinly washed; told m front of one 

 or two less prominent folds, all of which become obsolete before 

 reaching the opening of the aperture. 

 Dimensions.- Imperfect, specimen: Altitude, 85 mm.: maximum 



diameter. 32 mm.; spiral angle. 30°. 



This magnificent species is represented in the presenl collection 



from Coon < 'reek by two individuals, both of which, while imperfect, 



yet show t he essential characters of the shell. It. i- well characterized 



by the elaborate axial and spiral Ornamentation, the vet J acuminate 

 spire and further by the -pino-e varix-bearing posterior fasciole. 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation; Dave Weeks Place, on (don 

 ('reek, McNairy County, Tennessee 



Family FUSID.E. 

 Genua FUSUS I 

 Subgraui tNOMALOFUSUG rubges 



Etymology: i.vd>nakns t irregular; ftu ■ tropod. 



Type! / I tinmillnfiislls) siil»tn<ilu -p. IkiV. 



Shell of medium uze and elongate, fusiform in outline; spire 

 acuminate and of approximately the same length at the aperture; 

 protoconch oaticoid and smooth, coiled aboul three times; axial* 

 most prominent ornamentation, costsa irregular in size and spacing; 

 spiral sculpture consisting of man} fine elevated lira cA different 




162 PRCM BEDINGS 01 i HE \< \i>i \n 01 |.luly, 



sizes which override axial-: suture impressed, aperture lenticular 

 and produced anteriorly into a canal; outer lip thickened and dentate 

 within, broadly notched between suture and medial pari of outer 

 margin of aperture; inner lip bhinlj calloused, columella smooth and 

 slightly sinuous. 



The unclear characters, the -harp cancellate sculpture, and inter- 

 mediately thickened outer lip which is broadly notched ill front, of 

 the suture seem to assign this form to the rank of a subgenus under 

 Fusus. This form bears some resemblance to Phosm general outline, 

 but is much more -lender. Phos is characterized by a columella 

 which is much more -harph twisted. Anomalofusus has a longer 

 canal than any of the Buccinida? and lacks the abruptly excavated 

 columella, plicate in front, which is characteristic of I'lios. Besides 

 nuclear characters, Anomalofusus. differs from Fusus in its shorter 

 canal, and further by it- thickened and notched outer lip. 



Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus -p. now PI. XXIII, fins. 9, 10, 11. 



Description. Shell of medium size and elongate, fusiform in 

 outline: spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as 

 the aperture; whorls roundly shouldered, three to five in number on 

 conch; protoconch naticoid and smooth, coiled about three times; 

 external sculpture elaborate, axials predominating, costa; well rounded 

 and elevated, irregular in size and spacing, reaching from anterior 

 to posterior suture on spiral whorls, but evanescing on anterior part 

 of body : spiral sculpture -consisting of about 14 small primary elevated 

 lirae and in each interspace there are from one to three very fine 

 primary lirae, primary lira' lacking on a narrow band just in front of 

 suture, both primary and secondary lirae override costse; suture 

 impressed; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal; 

 outer lip thickened and dentate within, broadly notched between 

 suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture; inner lip cal- 

 loused; columella smooth and slightly sinuous. 



Dimensions. — Immature individual: Altitude, 17.5 mm.; length 

 of aperture, 9.5 mm.: maximum diameter, 7."> mm.; spiral angle, 35°. 



This elegantly sculptured gastropod is abundant at Coon Creek. 

 There i- a wide range in the maturity of individuals, some have only 

 one whorl of the couch, while the older ones have five whorls. The 

 protoconch i- preserved and conspicuous on most specimens. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek. McNairy County, Tennessee. 




1916.] NATURAL -i [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



ORNOPSIS 



Etymology: o/»>«9, bird; 5<pt$ f form. 



Type: Omopsis ylenni sp. nov. 



Shell fairly large and strong; body whorl inflated; spire varying in 

 relative altitude; protoconch very small, smooth, paucispiral, and 

 trochoid; both axial and spiral sculpture well developed; aperture 

 pyriform, abruptly constricted, and sinistrally inclined: outer lip 

 marginally crenate; parietal wall washed by a callus; columella 

 marked by a strong laterally compressed laminar plait situated at 

 the entrance of the anterior canal. 



This genus is characterized by a peculiar narrow flexed canal and 

 a sharp laminar plait on the columella directly behind the entrance 

 of the anterior canal. In these respects it, differs from the other 

 Fusidae. In general outline Ornopsis elevata greatly resembles the 

 genus Laiirus, but differs from it in the character of the anterior canal. 

 0dontofu8U8 of the Fasciolariidae has a more elevated spire, a more 

 feeble columella fold and a nearly straight anterior canal. The 

 close, compact spire of Ornopsis resembles some of the Buccinidse, 

 but here again the apertural features are distinctly different. 



Ornopsis glenni j i» nov PI XXIV, fig l 



Description. Shell fairly large and strong; elevation of spire less 

 than Length of aperture; protoconch very small, smooth, paucispiral 

 and trochoid; volution- of conch six in number, increasing in 

 from a very -mall apical whorl to an inflated body whorl; external 

 ornamentation well-defined, axial- elevated, well rounded and short, 

 beginning :it shoulder and quickly evancescing in front of t he periphery 

 of body; becoming less prominent toward aperture and disappearing 

 almost entirely m some individuals, costae of varying size and spacing, 

 twelve on body of type; spiral line- sharply impressed, more than 

 thirty <»n body whorl, becoming line and oblique on pillar: shoulder 

 broad, feebly convex; suture impressed; bodj whorl abruptly con- 

 stricted into a slender pillar; aperture pyriform, produced anteriorly 



into a narrow canal -ini-trally inclined: outer lip -harp and mar- 

 ginally crenate; parietal wall washed wit h a callus thickest at posterior 



extremity of aperture; columella flattened at the entrance of the 

 canal into a -helfdike fold. 



Dimensions. Altitude, I s mm.: Length of aperture ami canal. 



:;:; mm.; maximum diameter, 24 mm.; spiral angle, I 



This form l- well characterized ly it- pointed apex, much inflated 

 body and further by the flattened shelf-like fold. It i- one of the 

 most abundant gastropod reek, being represented in the 




164 PROi i i DINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [.July, 



collection \ man} perfed specimens. It i- the type of the genua 



and i- named in honor of Dr. I.. C. Glenn, Prote>-or of ("leology at 



V'anderbill University . 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Ornopsis elevata sp nov. PI. XXIV, Bga 2 and 3 



Description. Shell of medium size, rugose; spire elevated, ite 

 altitude approximately the same as the Length of the aperture; 

 protoconch broken away; external sculpture dominantly axial, tie 

 costse elevated and rounded, highest upon the shoulder, becoming 



taint toward 1 he anterior, evanescent anteriorly and absent altogether 



upon the posterior fasciole, about twelve on body whorl, irregularly 



-paced toward aperture; -pace between shoulder and posterior 

 suture separated by slightly narrower concave intercostals: spiral 

 sculpture of rather low. crowded line separated by deeply impressed 

 lines, about twenty on body whorl; line equally as well marked on 

 the summit of the axials as in intercostal spaces: suture line impressed; 

 body whorl smoothly constricted anteriorly into a narrow pillar, 

 posterior part of aperture ovate, but broken anteriorly by a rather 

 long narrow anterior canal: inner lip calloused; columella flattened 

 at the entrance of the canal into a flat shelf-like fold. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 84..") mm.; maximum diameter, 17.2 mm.; 

 spiral angle. 41° 51'. 



This species differ- from Ornopsis glenni in possessing a higher, 

 more acuminate spire and a less inflated body whorl. 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 (reek. McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family BUCCINID^E. 

 HYDROTRIBULUS gen. nov. 



Etymology: odtop } water: Tpi?uX»<i i burr. 

 Type: Hydrotribulus nodosus sp. nov. 



Sh'-ll moderately large and solid, top shaped in outline; spire less 

 than half the entire length of the shell; protoconch scar small, sculp- 

 ture vigorous, the axials undulatory, the spirals more sharply defined; 

 aperture pyriform and produced anteriorly into a narrow recurved 

 canal: outer lip expanded and abruptly constricted at the base of 

 body, dentate within; parietal wall heavily glazed, sometimes 

 bearing a tooth-like process directly in front of the posterior com- 

 missure; inner lip excavated and calloused, reflected anteriorly, con- 




1916.] NATTJBAL SCIENCE8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



cealing entirely the umbilicus; edge of pillar flattened at entrance of 

 canal, simulating a fold. 



This genus is characterized by a fairly Low-spiral angle; vigorous 

 rugose, cancellate sculpture; a much inflated body and further by a 

 much excavated and reflected inner lip, which conceals an umbilicus. 

 Besides the Coon Creek specie- it is represented by an undescribed 

 species from Owl Creek, Mississippi,. and another from Brightseat, 

 Maryland, and further by a Bpecies in the Senonian of Aix-la-Cha- 

 pelle, Germany. The German species was first described by Miiller 

 in 1851 and assigned to the genus Rapa. Since then i1 has been 

 variously assigned by other palaeontologists to such genera as Fusus, 

 la, Hemifusus, Pyropsis and finally to Tudicla by Bolzapfel, 1 

 who discussed the species in L888. A study of the description and 



figures of the German form, together with tin C i Creek species 



and specimens from the Maryland and Mississippi Localities, indicates 

 that these >peci.- belong to a well-defined "roup, and it seems advisable 

 to propose for their reception a new genus Hydrotribulus of the family 

 Buccinidae. In general aspect this genus resembles Pyrifusus, bu1 

 differs from i1 in having a shorter recurved anterior canal and :* 

 pillar which i- flattened and recurved in a unique manner at the 

 entrance of the canal. Tudicla has a much flatter spire, a more globose 

 body and a much more abruptly constricted, Longer and straighter 

 canal. It differs from Strepsidura in characters of the anterior 

 • •anal and aperture and further by it- characteristic rugose cancellate 

 sculpture. 



Hydrotribulus nodosus ip doi i'l XXIV, figs i ind 5. 



Description. Shell fairly Large and very heavy with a rugosely 

 cancellate sculpture; top-shaped in outline; spire rather low; its 

 altitude less than the Length of the aperture, sides converging a1 

 angle oi 7n degrees; whorl- of conch five in number and rapidly 

 increasing in size to a much inflated bodj ; whorl- of conch obliquely 

 shouldered, the peripheral angle of the spire falling in trout of the 



medial horizontal: sculpture vigorous, both axial and Bpj 



restricted almost entirely to the area in fronl of the periphery; 

 axial- elevated and broadly rounded, sixta d in aumber on the body 

 whorl of the type, subequal in Bize and regularly spaced; spira 

 sculpture of broad, elevated fillets, mosl prominent on the I" 

 Bubnodoa tions of the axials which th< ride, 



ll.il/ .i '• i /' • • •■ ! \ \ \ I \ p loe 




166 PROCEEDINGS "l ink M \i>i:\n OF [July, 



in aumber on the whorls of 1 1 1 « - spire and four on the medial 

 portion of the ultima, separated by -hallow channels of approximately 

 the same width as the fillets; shoulder sloping at an angle of about 

 15°, very feebly convex; sculpture with retractive undulations 

 corresponding in number and proportion to the axials with an obscure 

 secondary liration and revolving a little behind the periphery; base 

 of body and pillar threaded wit.h flattened spirals which become 

 increasingly narrow anteriorly; suture quite deeply channeled, 

 undulated in harmony with the preceding volution, body whorl 

 constricted rather abruptly into a broad pillar; aperture pyriform, 

 produced anteriorly into a narrow canal: outer lip broadly expanded; 

 crenulated at the margin and feebly cordate within, the cords 

 restricted to the margin and corresponding in position with th< 

 interspiral area-: inner lip broadly concave, uOn-plicate; parietal 

 wall heavily glazed and bearing an obscure tooth directly in front 

 of the posterior commissure; edge of pillar flattened at, the entrace 

 of the canal simulating a fold, canal sharply recurved, moderately 

 long and narrow with parallel proximate margins; umbilicus closed 

 by the reflected inner wall of the aperture but indicated by a depres- 

 sion between the callus ami the anterior fasciole. 



\) . — Altitude, H nun.; length of aperture and canal, 



:im.; maximum diameter, .'32.4 mm.; spiral angle, 70°. 



This elegant species is represented in the Coon Creek collection 

 by perfectly preserved specimens. The species is characterized by 

 the obliquely shouldered whorls, the prominent subnodose intersec- 

 tions of the handed spirals and the undulatory axials, further by the 

 low spiral angle and outline of cross-section of body. 



Occurrence. -Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on (don 

 k. McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family EUOMPHALIDiE. 

 Genu- HIPPOCAMPOIDES gen. nov. 



Etymology: tiznoxafino^ sea-horse; zldo?, shape. 



Type: Hippocampoides serratus -p. nov. 



Shell rather -mall, flattened or feeble apicaUy; widely and deeply 

 umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid, paucispiral; whorla of 

 conch relatively few. increasing rapidly both in diameter and altitude 

 toward the aperture; external surface usually smooth; peripheral 

 margin acutely angulated, often sharply -errate; aperture holo- 

 stomous, umbilicus funicular, the outer margin acute, conspicuously 

 produced anteriorly. 




1916. J NATURAL >' !K\' ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



This flattened form is assigned to the family Euomphalidae because 

 of its flat spin-, its deep wide umbilicus, the outer margin of which 

 is produced conspicuously and further od account of the angular 

 peripheral margin. Hippocampoides resembles Discohelix somewhat, 

 but differs from it in having a protoconch not inverted and further 

 in not having a whorl with a quadrate cro — ection. It may be 

 separated from Straparollus by the heighl of the spire and cross- 

 sectiou of body whorl. 



Hippooampoides serratus -i> nov. PI. XXIV. figs 11, r_'. L3. 



Description. Shell rather small, flattened or very feebly convex. 

 apically concave laterally, the altitude increasing toward the aperture, 

 profoundly umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid depressed 

 below the plane of the initial whorl of the conch, the one and one- 

 half component volutions rather loosely coiled and approximately 

 uniform in diameter, line of demarkation between couch and pr< 

 conch indicated by a slight but very abrupt increase in the diameter 

 of the whorl: conch thrice coiled, the whorl- increasing regularly and 

 quite rapidly in diameter; external surface smooth and probably 

 polished in the original state; peripheral keel acute, sharply and. on 

 final half turn, profusely serrate; the indentation nearest the 

 aperture running almost half way to the suture line; the deepesl of 

 the serrations coincident with pronounced resting stages so the 

 half turn seems to l»e made up of a series of overlapping tri- 

 angular plat--: suture line rather deeply impressed; aperture semi- 

 elliptical in outline, the aperture half again a- the 



body whorl at it- initiation. but less than half that of the body whorl 



at it- close; peristome adnate along the body wall, very feebly emargi- 

 nate both at tin- peripheral and at 'he umbilical keel- appro 

 straight between the notches, umbilicus very wid< md, 



persistent to the apex, funicular, the outer margin acute, probably 

 ited; area between the peripheral and umbilical keels quite 

 ■ metrically conca 1 



Dimen ion Altitude, 11 nun.: length of aperture, 5 mm.: 

 maximum diameter, 19.2 mm. 



This species is remarkable for the auriculate outline of the apical 

 aspect, i In- deep serrat ions of the periphery, the rapid in 

 altitude of the -hell t.ou.ud the aperture, the lateral concavit) and 

 the profound umbilicus, approximately half a- wide a- the entire 

 shell and margined by an acutely angulated keel. The edge of the 

 keel has been macerated, '"it th< idence that it v. 



strong!} serrate. 




168 pBO< EEDINQS 01 PHB \< \iu.\n OP |J ill V, 



Occurrence. — Ripley Format ion: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 k, McNairj I tounty, Tennessee. 



Family TURBINIDSE. 

 - SCHIZOBASIS seu 



Etymology: -/s-- , to split; H<n$ } base. 



Type: Schizobasis depressa sp. now 



Shell o\ medium size, thick, porcellaneous, depressed and globo 

 very low and smoothly rounded; protoconch lost in type Bpecies; 

 touch paucispiral, the component whorls increasing regularly and 

 rapidly in diameter: sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral; sutures 

 obscure; aperture circular, interrupted posteriorly by a Blight shallow 

 siphonal notch and anteriorly by a slit which mark- the entrance of 

 the anterior canal: outer lip not thickened, simple within ; inner lip 

 excavated, heavily reinforced; anterior canal rather short, with the 

 parallel proximate margins distorted so that it appears as a narrow 

 -lit cutting across the l>ase of the shell directly at right angles with 

 the axis; callus almost filling the umbilicus; umbilicus imperforate. 

 the umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened against 

 I tase of the columella, from which it is separated by a profound sulcus; 

 depressed umbilical keel marked by growth stages or often poorly 

 defined varices. 



This genus is characterized by depressed spire and by a peculiar 

 anterior canal which is short and deep and at right angles to the axis 

 of the shell and resembling a slit in the anterior part of the aperture. 

 It i Iocs not seem to be near anything heretofore described, and it has 

 been assigned to the family Turbinidse only after some hesitation. 

 The- Turbinidse have a much depressed shell and sculptural and 

 nuclear characters much like Schizobasis, but none of that family 

 possess the short, well-defined canal which characterized this new 

 genus. The recent Turbo cornutus, which is common in the Indo- 

 Pacific. has a very shallow anterior canal. The genus Sargana of 

 the Thaisidse has a much depressed spire, a shallow, posterior notch 

 and a narrow anterior canal inclosed in an umbilical keel which is 

 varicose and altogether possesses points analogous to Schizobasis. 

 Sargana has an entirely different -culpture and a much produced 

 anterior canal which are family characters, probably great enough 

 to bar Schizobasis from the Thaisidse. Turbo differs from Schizobasis 

 in being nacreous and in having no well-defined canal. There 

 is an undescribed species of Schizobasis that occurs at Eufaula, 

 Alabama. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Schizobasis depressa *p. nov. PI. XXIV. figs. 8. 9, 10. 



Description .- Shell of medium size, thick, porcellanous, depressed 

 and globose, spire very Low and smoothly rounded, rising slightly 

 above the body whorl; protoconch broken away in type species; 

 conch paucispiral, the component whorls three and one half in 

 number, increasing; regularly and rapidly in diameter, outer wall of 

 one and one-half whorls of the apex broken away from spire of type; 

 sculpture coarse and dominantry spiral, seven low, round spirals on 

 body whorl, evanescing rather suddenly on body near aperture of 

 adult, posterior spiral less rounded and very near posterior -uture, 

 uring suture line, interspiral -pace- much narrower than spirals; 

 a deep spiral -ulcus at base of body between anterior spiral and 

 umbilical keel: spiral sculpture consists of irregularly occurring 

 unequal costse shown on top of spirals and absent in interspiral 

 spaces; costse receding anteriorly, parallel to outer margin of aperture, 

 aperture circular, interrupted posteriorly by a slight -hallow siphonal 

 notch and anteriorly by a -lit which mark- the entrance of the 

 anterior canal: outer lip simple; inner lip excavated, heavily rein- 

 forced; anterior canal rather short with parallel proximate margins 

 distorted so that it appears as a narrow -lit cutting across the base 

 ol the shell directly at right angles with the axis; callus almost 

 filling the umbilicus; umbilical keel showing two poorlj denned 

 varices; umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened 

 ast i he base of the columella. 



Dimen on Elevation, L8.4 mm.; maximum diameter, 23.3 mm.; 

 Bpiral angle, 125 K)'. 



The type of this verj interesting genus is represented in the Coon 

 collection by a single perfectly preserved specimen. 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 .v. McNairj ' lounty, Tenness< 



I imily DELPHINULIDJE 

 URCEOLABRUM 



jug: labrum, lip. 

 Type: Urceolabrum tuberculatum sp. □ 



Shell small and porcellanous trochoid m outline with a con- 

 spicuous aperture; apex acute, protoconch broken awaj in type 

 small; sculpture cancellate, often tubercular at the 

 intersection od spirals and axials; suture impressed; aperture circular 

 and much thickened around the rim, umbilicus wide and deep. ' 

 This genus is proposed for a well-defined group of forms which are 




!7(> PROCEEDINGS OF mi. \< IDEM1 OF [July, 



characterized by a conspicuous circular reinforced aperture, a pro- 

 found umbilicus, and an elevated cancellate >piti ■. Besides the 

 Coon < 'reck species two others arc known, an undescribed species 

 from Eufaula, Alabama, and a species described by Muller in 1851 

 from Aachen beds of Vaals, Germany, and referred to the genus 

 Scotoma. The same species was referred i<> Liotia by Holzapfel in 

 B88. 1S This genus differs from typical LioticE which occur in the 

 Coon Creek strata in having a more elevated spire, a circular rein- 

 forced aperture and further by a profound umbilicus. In general 

 outline there is some resemblance to Delphinula, but Delphinula has 

 a nacreous interior and an aperture which is not reinforced or circular. 



Urceolabrum tuberculatum sp. nov. PI. XXIV, tic- 6 and 7. 



Description. — Shell small, solid, porcellanous and ornately sculp- 

 tured; spire elevated and acute: protoconeh scar small; whorls 



circular in cro ection and four in number; external ornamentation 



elaborate, axial- dominant, costae 1-t in number on penult equally 

 -paced and evanescing od base of the body; spirals forming 5 rows of 

 tuhenle- at intersection with costae on body whorl, interspiral space 

 at base of body rather wide, an isolated row of tubercles on anterior 

 margin of the umbilicus: suture impressed and crenate; aperture 

 circular, peristome heavily reinforced and calloused resembling 

 mouth of a jug, rim of aperture half as wide as opening; umbilicus 

 profound and funicular'. 



Dimensions. — Altitude. 5 nun. ; width of aperture, 1 nun.; maximum 

 diameter of body. :>.4 mm.; apical angle, 60°. 



This elegant little species is hard and well preserved, being rather 

 common in the Coon Creek sediments. It, may be separated from the 

 Eufaula species by the fact that the Eufaula form has fine secondary 

 lirae between the primary spirals and on the band at the base of the 

 body whorl. It differs from the German species of this genus 13 in 

 having sharper axial- and tubercles at intersection of costae and 

 spirals; the German form has radial line- on the reinforced api rture, 

 while aperture of the Tenth-— ee form is smooth. 



Occurrence. Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Cood 

 • I:. McNairy ' !ounty, Tennessee. 



"Holzapfel, E., 1888, Palaeordographica, Band XXXIV, p. 170, Taf, xviii, 

 3-7. 

 Holzapfi :. i. 188S 




L916.] NATURAL 3 N E8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Explanation of Plates XXIII and XX IV. 



Plate XXIII. — Fig. L— Af _ I sp. nov. Rear view. 



_ 2 Same. Apertural view. 



Apical view. > 1 • » 

 Fig. 4. — Tectaplica I sp. dov. Apertural view. Nat. - 



Fig. 5. — Drill qov. Apertural view. Nat. - 



Fig. 6. — Same. Rear view. Nat. size. 

 Fig. ~ .— I • I sp. nov. Rear view. Nal 



Fig. 8. — Same. Apertural view. Nat. size. 

 Fig. 9. — I nov. Apertural view, x 2. 



- me. Rear view. 

 Fig. 11.— Same. Apical view. ■ in 



Plate XXIV. — Fig. 1. — _ . Apertural view, 



size. 



. - - -p. IIOV. Apertural view. ;■ 



g. 3. — Same. Rear view, x 1*. 



_ I. — Hydrotribvi - el sp no 1 tral view. Nal 



Fi};. " - Rear view. Nal , 3ize. 



_ _ '<■■■■ Apertural view. X 6. 



. 7 - one Rear view. X 6. 

 lit: 8. — Schizobasis depressa gen. e1 sp. nov. ew. Nat. - 



Apertural view. Nat. size, 

 view. Nat. si 

 Fig. 11. — Hippocan - Epical view. ■ J. 



! 12 Same. Basal view. • 2 

 1 il view. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF I'll!' ICADEM1 OP |Au.nu>l. 



A POSSIBLE PARTIAL EXPLANATION OF THE VISIBILITY AND BRILLIANCY 



OF COMETS. 



BY DANIEL M. HAKUINGER. 

 Willi W ADDENDUM BY ELIHTJ THOMSON. 



From a careful study of the so-called "shale-hall" meteorites 

 described in my previous papers on the Meteor Crater of Arizona, I 

 am impelled to make a suggestion that their peculiar and more or 

 less uniform shape may give us a hint of at least a partial cause of 

 the brilliancy of the head of comets and the gradually fading visi- 

 bility of their tails. 



It should not be forgotten that these so-called "shale-ball" 

 meteorites have never before been described, and we would know 

 little of their original shape were it not that the several hundred 

 which have been found by us have been dug out of exceeding finely 

 pulverized silicious dust, so abundantly found with larger rock 

 fragments on the rim of the crater. This finely divided silicious 

 dust is due to the pulverization of a portion of the 1,000-foot white 

 or gray sandstone stratum during the passage through it of the 

 meteoric mass which, by its impact with the earth, as is now 

 proved, made the crater described in my previous papers. The 

 great mass of this exceedingly finely pulverized "silica," so-called, 

 most of which is so fine that it will easily pass a 100-mesh screen, is 

 practically impervious to water, hence these shale-ball meteorites 

 in many cases have retained their original shapes. As previously 

 stated by me, they have no sharp corners, but are, generally speaking, 

 either round, oval or pear shaped, and in fact closely resemble in 

 shape ordinary river gravel. In nearly all cases oxidation has 

 penetrated from the outer surface inward for varying distances, but 

 in most cases not sufficiently far to make it impossible to know what 

 the original shape of the iron mass was when it fell to the earth and 

 was imbedded in the outpouring from the crater, like flour from a 

 barrel, of the finely divided silica dust commingled with rock frag- 

 ments. In all of the many thousands of iron meteorites found around 

 the crater only one aerolite, or perhaps more accurately siderolite, 

 has been found. This was found by me on June 24, 1905. Inasmuch 

 a- by far the greater part of this aerolite was stony in nature, it had 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



yielded but very slightly to oxidation since it fell upon the earth. 

 It is interesting to note, however, that all of it- edges were rounded 

 as if they had been subjected to abrasive action, hut it was not as 

 perfectly rounded or oval in shape as tin- great majority of the iron 

 meteorites. If it. fell at the same time a- the cluster which made the 

 crater, as I now think is probable, possibly this was due to tin- fact 

 that it had been gathered up by the iron-headed cornel in its pass 

 through -pace and had not been a member of the cluster for as long 

 a time as its iron companion-. 



The abrasive action between these masses of meteoric material 

 composing the comet's head, even though it is Less than any grinding 

 action that we can conceive of owing to the fact that the ma-- travels 

 through the ether of space, ha-. I would suggest . something to do with 

 the visibility of comets. Inconceivably gentle abrasive action may 

 he sufficient to wear off infinitesimal particles of matter, considering 

 the enormous periods of time available. If so, may it qo1 be that 

 the attrition between the masses of meteoric material, for example 

 masses of iron, not only possibly causes a disturbance of the ether 

 where the grinding or milling action takes place, hut literally fills 

 the -pace in ami around the head of the comet with exceedingly fine 

 particle- of cometary dust? May not these tine particle- of matter, 

 possibly electrified, also form the so-called tail a- they are - 



away from the main body of the comet travelling through spa 

 I'h- explanation of the tail pointing away from the sun i- somewhat 

 difficult on this theory, hut the difficulty disappears if we can com i 

 •articles to he -o mfinitesimally -mall and so wanting in weight 

 o he affected by the light wave- of the sun ami to he driven by 



them in a direction away from the -uu. 



There can he no doubt that all the SO-called "shale-ball" iron 



o far discovered by u- in the material forming with 

 th( upturned edges of the limestone and sandstone strata 'he rim 

 of the Ari/ona crater -how evidence of what seems to have been 

 abrasive action. The inference is unavoidable that, they have been 

 ;. during perhaps billions of to Buch action, incon- 



ceivably Blight, it i- true, but nevertheless sufficient to finally reduce 

 them to the shapes in which we find them, it i- evident that the 

 abrasion woe not produced by then- passage through our air. May 

 th< j not he m fact "celestial cobblestones," and may not the milling 

 action when they rub against each other, even verj gently, account, 

 in some way, not perfectly understood, for not onlj what we term the 



brilliant head of a COmet but for it- tail a- well'.' < 




171 PROCEEDINGS 01 nil \< \iu.\n OF [August, 



This Is only a theory, bul the inference seems to be justified. 

 The rounded shape common to tin- kind of meteorites is .1 fad 

 which mus1 be explained, and the only reasonable explanation 



is that it has been due to mutual abrasion. The largest mass of 

 meteoric iron of this description so far found by us weighed over 

 100 pounds. I have n<» doubt, however, that many of them com- 

 posing the cluster which formed the head of theverj small comet, 

 which produced by its impact with the earth what we know as Meteor 

 ('rat.r. were much Larger. Evidence that many others fell upon 

 the earth around the crater i- to lie found in the tact that the plain 

 round about i< strewn with whal is locally known as "iron-shale," 

 certainly due to the decomposition of these "shale-balls," it being 

 merely oxidized meteoric iron. A great many thousand pieces of 

 this '•iron-shale" have been found around the crater, on ail sides of 

 it. hut mosl abundantly to the N.N.E., the direction from which the 

 cluster is supposed by those of us who now recognize the true origin 

 of the crater to have approached the earth. This variety of meteoric 

 iron, as I have previously staled, decomposes very much more 

 rapidly than any other meteoric iron ever discovered, owing to 

 the fact that it contains appreciable quantities of chlorine. That 

 thousands of "shale-balls" were strewn about the crater a moment 

 after the impact there can now be no reasonable doubt. It. is 

 a remarkable fact, however, that no piece of the so-called "iron- 

 shale" has ever been found which is not slightly curved, similarly 

 to the "iron-shale," found on the outside of the slowly decomposing 

 "shale-ball" meteorites which lie deeply imbedded in the silicious 



dusl forming a greal portion of the rim of the crater. Mosl of the 

 r have iron centres and the "iron-shale" surrounding them are 

 merely the layers of iron oxide still adhering to the central iron mass. 

 When we compare the two. the piece- of "iron-shale" found on the 

 surrounding plain show conclusively by their shape that the so-called 

 "-hale-ball'' - mete., rite- from which they were derived were originally 

 more or less globular in shape. 



Saturn'- rings are now believed to be composed of meteorite-, but 

 upon the theory which I have advanced there 1- possibly no milling 



2 Inding action taking place between them such as may take place 

 tor some unknown reason in the head of a comet. I may, however, 

 v be in error a- to this. 



If the lunar craters and 1 he Arizona craterhavehad a common origin. 



a- now seem- very probable, there can be no doubl that our knowl- 



_ of cosmogony has been greatly advanced by the discovery of t he 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -175 



origin of the Arizona crater and that there is much stronger reason 

 now than ever before to believe in the general correctness of Chamber- 

 lin's and Moulton's theory of the building up of planetary systems. 

 It is calculated that some 2,000,000 meteorites reach our atmosphere 

 v twenty-four hours, and il is highly probable that in the early 

 history of theearth it was abundant ly bombarded by comi tary bodies, 

 that are probably, after all, merely masses of meteoric material which 

 have gotten together and in some way uot known to us have assumed 

 orbits of their own. It would seem, however, thai mosl of them, 

 as well as most of the meteoric material originally forming the 

 nebula out of which our solar system has been built up, have long 

 since been gathered into the sun, its planetary bodies or the moons 

 revolving about, them. Our moon, having been without an atmos- 

 phere for perhaps a great many million-, if not billions, of j ears, shows 

 evidences of some of the more recent accretions to it- mass, outside of 

 the more or less steady rain of cosmic dust. It- numerous craters 

 probably merely represent the gathering in of cometary bodies or 

 clusters of meteorites, for they are apparently exactly similar to our 

 Arizona crater, except that most of them are vastly larger. 



If this theory of the building up of solar systems be correct, is it 

 not wonderful to reflect that when one hold- in the hand one of these 

 pic-.- of m.t.oric material he i- probably holding something older 

 than our .-un. our own earth, or any of the planetary bodies which 



with their moon- revolve aboul the -un? That i- to say, he i-, 



literally holding, practically unchanged through countless eons of 

 time, ,-i pari oi the nebula ou1 of which our solar system was con- 

 structed and which nebula in turn probably represented the wrcck- 



a previously existing system. 



Addendi m bi Elihi Thomson. 



The following comments on the above paper were received by 

 Mr. Barringer from Prof. Elihu Thomson: 



I have your letter of June lb enclosing a communication which 

 you are thinking of sending to The Icadem} of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. I think there is little question that the explanation pul 

 forward in your paper a- to the rounded shape of the shale-ball 

 meteorites is the true one. I have, in fact, often spoken of the 

 inevitable readjustments that maj take place in a -mall cluster 

 revolving around the -un and the attrition between the pan 



ace ting for the steady production of very finely divided material 



32 




I7»i PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CAOBM1 of [August, 



driven away from the Ducleus by the pressure of light. In fact, I 

 have talked of this very thing with the astronomers, and they have 

 not raised any objections to it. [ take it that what happens is about 

 this at least, this is in accordance with my idea of what happens: 



When the cornel is far removed from the sun and consists, as it. 

 probably almost always does, of a nucleus of fairly heavy pieces 

 surrounded by lighter masses, they are, on account of the cold of 

 -pare. a1 a very low temperature, and what little gravitational effect 

 i- produced is jusl sufficient to prevenl t hem being scattered. They 

 are fnc. ;it the far distance from the sun, from anything like tidal 

 action. The cluster mighl even be revolved without being distorted 

 by disturbance of the parts. Should they pass within range of the 

 gravitational effect of Jupiter and have the path slightly disturbed 

 thereby, there would necessarily be I by the slipping of I he parts over 

 each other) an attrition or grinding action taking place, and this 

 would continue so long as the body was within the range of the 

 disturbing planet. The same would be true of the cometary clusters 

 pa— inu towards the sun and around it (making a so-called perihelion 

 passage), excepl thai there would be some little difference. In this 

 the particles of fine material, the result of the grinding, and held 

 in the cluster, would now be free. The manner of this freeing can 

 easily be understood. The face of the mass of the cluster on the side 

 toward the sun would undergo a warming or heating process. This 

 would result in the evolution into the vacuous -pace of whatever vapors 

 or gases, however rare they might be (originally occluded in the face 

 of the masses of the cluster), especially from the warmed surfaces. 

 This would amount to a flowing of gas or evolution of gas on the side 

 toward the sun which would lift the dust particles away from the 

 ma--, and the very fine particles would thus he free to he driven hack 

 by the light pressure to form a tail. It is an old idea that during this 

 process if the sun were highly electrified electrical actions would 

 take place, electrical readjustments to the increasing actions of the 

 -mi. hut, I think it doubtful whether the tail is much, or anything, 

 of an electrical nature, for the reason that the vacuous space in which 

 the tail moves is so high a vacuum that no conduction would he 

 possible. 



I am inclined to think that whatever action- of temperature or 

 electrical action.- occur would he practically within the nucleus or 

 near it. The spectroscope -how- that as the comet approaches 

 the SUB gas l- actually evolved; and the -pectin of cyanogen and 

 carbon monoxide are common in comets, and possibly also hydro- 




1916.] NAT! HAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



carbon spectra in some cases. The luminosity of the tail, which, 

 it must be borne in mind is extremely low, according to any way of 

 rating it, i>. I think, amply accounted for by the greal depth of space 

 in which the fine matter exists and the solar light of high intensity 

 reaching this fine matter: a pun- case of diffusion from fine particles. 

 As 1" cosmic dust not reflecting sunlight as does fine cometary dust, 

 the following explanation, it seems to me, is ample. We see things 

 by contrast. Even if there was a slight luminosity in space, it would 

 simply form a background for the comet's tail, which would he more 

 Luminous ami more dense in dust. Tin' astronomers have long sus- 

 pected a very thin veil of dust in the sky, of dust under illumination. 

 The >ky i- not. in fact, absolutely black. It i- Mack by comparison. 

 Of course, it cannot be expected that ordinary meteorites should 

 ever he geen in the sunlight. They are too small or too far apart. 

 Only when they reach a considerable size do they produce any 

 impression a- single -pot- of light. Witness the asteroids or the 

 little planet Eros, which probably i- mile- in diameter and ye1 is 



difficult to detect. 



My idea i- that the continual readjustment of the position and 



relation of the part.- within a -mall cluster, or even within a l;i il-" - 



cluster forming a large comet, will account for practically all that 



OCCUrs in the head of the comet and in the tail. 



This tail will always point away from the -mi. It will curve 



backwards, for although the particles move in a straight line from 



the -un. it will curve backward- Owing to the progT( 38 of the QUCleUS 

 around the -un. The tail will continue to he formed 80 long a- the 



disturbing actions occur, and it will fade away as the comet <;. • 

 far from the -un a- not to he distorted or disturbed. If the cornel 



i- not otherwise lost, this action will continue on from the action of 



the -un with ; t constant reduction of ma-.- and the final diffusion of 

 the materia] composing the comet. 



Your statement in relation to the aerolite of a -tony nature 

 which you found i- very interesting to me, a- I had not beard 

 that you had found any Buch stonj meteor. H i- quite easy, bow- 

 ever, it -eem- to me, to account tor u a- a survival of perhaps 

 many other- present in the cluster. The -tony meteorites will 



naturally he sifted out from the iron met.-. nit,- in the flight of a 



meteor through our atmosphere. The} would not only he crushed 

 by air pressure on then- relatively greater area per unit of ma--, hut. 

 on account of then- lower specific gravity they would not have the 

 ability by momentum to force their wa> ae far. Their relatively, 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF mi: H \m.\iy OF [August, 



liiw momentum and greater air resistance in proportion to their mass 

 would make them early losers in the race, while the air pressure 



encountered would usually Bm&sh them into small pier.-. 



I il link it quite probable thai the stony matter of the earth is merely 

 an outer layer over an iron centre, and in the smash up of any bod} 

 due to partial collisions or actual collisions the stony matters must 

 be dissipated, as well as the iron masses, to be gathered up again 

 by the approach near to a Large gravitating body like a planet or a 

 sun. 



Your expression of "celestial cobblestones" is very expressive and 

 pertinent to the case of the shale-ball masses, and your observation 

 that pieces of apparently broken-up shale-balls are curved indicates 

 a similar origin for all of them. The flight of a cluster of small and 

 large meteoric masses, more or less rounded through our air, won id 

 naturally be a sifting-out process, as the smaller bodies would lag 

 behind in the flight. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF CREPIDULA ADUNCA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT. 



BY HAROLD HEATH. 



The genus Crepidida in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, ( lalifornia, 

 is abundantly represented by the members of two species, C. adunca 

 and C. nivea. In each case the young are retained in capsules within 

 the mantle cavity of the parent, and are liberated when they have 

 attained the form of the adult, and arc in possession of all the definitive 

 organs with the exception of those belonging to the reproductive 

 :n. It. i< accordingly readily possible to secure extensive series 

 of embryos and to follow the cour.-c of development from the ovum 

 to the adult. The embryology of several -peri,- of this genus has 

 been studied in greal detail by Conklin '97 . and as a resull it is 

 clearly established thai they all pursue essentially the same develop- 

 mental path until they reach the veliger stage «>r :i corresponding 

 point where a free-swiniming larva is Lacking. Beyond tin- poinl 

 nothing is known. 



In connection with a comparative study of the nervous system of 

 ral families of mollusks, I have examined adults of the two 

 above-mentioned species of Crepidida with considerable care and 

 have traced its development in ( . adunca. In view of the fact that 

 Paludina vivipara as worked out by Erlanger '92 - i- the only other 

 gastropod whose development in this respeel is known, the results 

 possess as enhanced degree of into r< 



The central nervous system of the adult < . adunca i- located in 

 the base of the neck, in a spongy mass of connective tissue, placed 

 between the pedal musculature and the overlying mantle cavity. 

 It conforms to the highly centralized type characteristic of the 

 monotocardia generally, with cerebral, pleural and pedal ganglia 

 closely appressed. In several instances, especially in half-grown 

 individuals, the line of demarcation between the cerebral and pleural 

 ganglia is comparatively sligb.1 ; on the other hand, the pedal ganglia 

 are invariably sharply defined. All are globular bodies of essentially 

 the same size and. as indicated previously, are muted by compara- 

 tively shori commissures and connect! 



1 The Embryologj of Crepidula, Jou i Vforpl Vol 13, 1897 



• Entwicklung von Palud Vol 17. I - 




Isii PBO< II DINGS "i i mi \' LDE1TJ OF [Sept., 



Of the more peripheral portions of the nervous system the buccal 

 ganglia are situated in the head region Blightly attached to the 

 dorsal face of the radular musculature. From the commissure 

 uniting them two delicate nerves arc given off, which course ven- 

 trally but rapidly become losi to view among the surrounding muscle 

 bundles. The connectives to the cerebral ganglia arise from the 

 forward borders of each buccal ganglion, extend laterally and ante- 

 riorly over the buccal musculature for a shorl distance, whereupon 

 they pass between some of the bundles of radular muscles to the 

 ventral side of the head. In this position, a1 each side of the under 

 surface of the radula, they pursue a course posteriorly to the cerebral 

 ganglia. Immediately after reaching the ventral surface of the 

 head they are united by a delicate commissure. 



Bach cerebral ganglion gives rise anteriorly to one or two nerves, 

 in addition to the buccal connective, which innervate the head. 

 \\ here one nerve appears it soon divides into an outer and inner 

 branch destined to supply the tentacle and lips, respectively. The 

 relatively strong tentacle nerve gives off a short, stout nerve to the 

 eye and. after dividing, extends far towards the tip of the tentacle. 

 The inner, or lip nerve, passes by a fairly direct path to the dorsal 

 side of the head, and ultimately breaks up in tin tissue about the 

 mouth. 



The pedal ganglia usually develop four pairs of nerves. The 

 most anterior, springing from the forward border of the ganglion, 

 extends through the pedal musculature to the forward section of the 

 foot, when- each branches repeatedly and becomes lost among the 

 muscle fibres. Two other pairs extend ventrally and likewise soon 

 disappear in the compact pedal musculature. In addition to these 

 three pairs, each pedal ganglion gives off from its antero-dorsal 

 surface another nerve destined to supply the base of the neck. On 



tin- left side of the body the bundle is comparatively -lender and 

 soon become- lost, to view at the junction of the head and mantle. 

 On tin- righl side the corresponding branch has the same size and 

 apparent distribution in lately hatched individuals, but at a later 

 period it becomes greatly enlarged and supplies the penis, which 

 arises relatively late in life. It may be added that the pedal 

 ganglia an- united by two commissures, the usual heavy one and 

 another, much more delicate, posterior to it. 



The elements of the visceral loop comprise three clearly defined 

 ganglia, the sub-intestinal, the supra-intestinal and the visceral. 

 The firel named is a globular body of approximately the same size 




1916.] NATURAL B< HAVES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4S1 



as the overlying right pleural ganglion, to which it is attached by a 

 short connective, thus producing a dextral zygoneury, while a 

 somewhat larger connective, passing ventral to the pharynx, unites 

 it with the left pleural ganglion. The supra-intestinal ganglion is 

 a fusiform mass united by a shorl connective to the righl pleural. 

 The visceral ganglion, in contact with the ventral floor of the mantle 

 cavity on the righl side of the body, is joined by connectives passing 



Dorsal view of the nervou I lula adunca I li< pedal 



oervi presented by broken lines; the nul i pedal nerve i- 



omitted. p., penis : ' . ' ^ 




482 ph. i. i:i.i>i\.,- or mi \< \m.\n of [Srpt., 



dorsal t<> the oesophagus and to the righl Bide of the stomach and 

 the adjacent section of the intestine. The visceral connective on 



the left develop- a small nerve, usually associated with ;i ganglionic 



enlargement, which has been traced for a short distance beneath 

 the Boor "i the mantle cavity. 'Idie viscera] ganglion itself also 

 gives rise to a branch which passes to the wall of the kidney, 

 where it disappears from view. 



In this species a well-defined marginal mantle nerve, or Mantel- 

 randnerv, \- presenl with many of the essential features of whal has 



found by Willcox ( '98) 3 to exist in Acmaza fragilis. In the 

 presenl instance it i- Loosely attached to the walls of the marginal 

 mantle -inns, and throughout its course develops numerous delicate 

 iches, which attach to the overlying epithelium or the deeper- 

 ed gland cells. On the right side of the body this marginal 

 nerve is united by two connectives with the pleural ganglion, 

 and. judging from sections, with the sub-intestinal ganglion as well. 

 Of these connectives the anterior is much the heavier, and skirting 

 the floor of the mantle cavity can he followed forward, where it 

 divides into a short, lateral branch uniting with the marginal nerve 

 coming up from the posterior three-fourths of the body, and a slightly 

 more dorsal and relatively larger nerve coursing about the base 

 of the marginal mantle thickening. In other words, the marginal 

 mantle nerve of the posterior part of the body can be traced as far 

 forward as the anterior level of the head in contracted specimens. 

 It actually may continue entirely around the body, but anteriorly 

 it becomes very delicate and finally disappears among the masses 

 of gland cells in the free border of the mantle. However, the heavy 

 connective from the righl pleural ganglion attaches to it before its 

 di-appearance, and on the other hand extends around the mantle 

 edge in front, where it meets the corresponding nerve from the left 

 pleural ganglion, thus completing the circular mantle nerve, though, 

 as noted before, this anterior section is at a slightly greater distance 

 from the mantle border. The smaller, posterior connective appears 

 to be more Largely a product of the sub-intestinal ganglion, and, 

 like the two -mailer connectives of the left side, it extends laterally 

 and posteriorly through the pedal musculature to the mantle border. 

 These two smaller connectives of the left, Bide as well as another of 

 much larger caliber arise from the pleural ganglion. The anterior 

 OL.e pursues a course -imilar to its counterpart on the right and is 



3 Zur Anatomie voii Acmaea fragilis, Jenaische Zeitschr.f. Xaturw., H<l :;_'. Isms. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



inserted in practically the same fashion with the mar ginal mantle 

 nerve. 



The osphradial ganglion is a well-defined elongated body situated 

 far forward on the left side of the mantle cavity. The aerve Leaving 

 its posterior border pursues a parallel course with the anterior 

 mantle ring connective and enters the supra-intestinal ganglion. 

 Certain species of the genus Crepidida arc reported. 4 to possess a 

 sinistral zygoneury wherein the supra-intestinal ganglion is united 

 to the pleural of the same side. I have found do evidence of its 

 existence in ( '. adunca. 



Turning now to the development of the nervous system, we find 

 that shortly after the first appearance of the foot the ectodermal 

 cells immediately in front of the lateral angles of the mouth opening 

 commence to elongate^ and each area rapidly differentiates into a 

 well-defined, probably sensory ridge and the tentacle. Ajssociated 

 with these external developments there is a migration of ectodermal 

 cells from the region of the ridge and tentacle, slight at first, bul 

 rapidly increasing, and finally ending, it' one can rely on sections, 

 at the time when pigment first make- its appearance in the eye. 

 These migranl cells form the cerebral ganglia, more or less rounded 

 at first, and largely obscured by the heavily staining overlying 

 ectoderm. 



Synchronous with the developmenl of the cerebral ganglia the 

 pedal ganglia arise. With the exception of a median, ciliated, -lender, 

 wedge-like area, the base facing anteriorly, the cells of the fool likeu Lse 

 become elongated, whereupon cells migrate inwards, forming two 

 large, diffuse masses in contacl posteriorly where the commissure 

 subsequently arises. The four ganglionic bodies thus existing at 

 this time appear to be the product solely of migrating elements, 

 since sections give no indication of cell division after the cells have 

 left the ectodermal layer. The same is also true of all the other 

 ganglia now to be considered. 



In whole mounts and in sections the cells along the posterior 

 border of each cerebral ganglion can be Been in the late stages of its 

 developmenl to assume an elongated form and to develop fibres 

 which extend posteriorly. In some instances the strands thus 

 produced form two distind bundles at the outset, one of which 

 passes into the pedal ganglion, while the other at a slightly 



■ joins with the pleural. In other instances one bundle first 



' Lang's Lehrbucb, p 21 3 




IM 



PROi KKi)i\<;s mi i in; m \m.\n nr 



[Sept., 



appears and subsequently divides to form the cerebro-pedal and 

 cerebro-pleural connectives. During this bime the cells of the 

 anterior margiii of each cerebral ganglioo likewise elongate and 

 rapidly form fibres which extend across the midline and thus form 

 the cerebral commissure. 



The buccal are the only ganglia which do not directly arise from 

 cells migrating from the overlying ectoderm; ou the other hand. 



Fi<:. 2. — Half-developed embryo of ( 'n pidula ml mien, showing the cenl ral nervous 



in and the visceral loop, c., cerebral ganglion and eye; i., intestine; 



in., mantle cavity; o., osphradia! ganglion; p., pleural ganglion; pe., 



pedal ganghon and otocyst; s., supra-intestinal ganglion; st., sub-intestinal 



ganglion; v., visceral ganghon. 



they give clear evidence of being products of the cerebral gangiia. 

 At about the same lime that the cerebral commissure La forming cells 

 can be seen extending toward the midline from the inner border of 

 each cerebral ganglion. These gradually form an accumulation on 

 each side of the radular invagination, and in some instances com- 

 pletely invest the radular Bac. In the stage represented by fig. 2 

 the ganglia are usually differentiated, though the commissure and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



the connectives may continue to contain cells until a relatively late 

 stage in the development of the embryo. 



After the cerebral ganglia have developed, yet before they have 

 become fashioned into their final form, the pleural ganglia and the 

 element- of the viscera] loop put in their final appearance. Each 

 pleural ganglion is the product of cells migrating from the adjacent 

 ectoderm ami arises at the sides of the body immediately posterior 

 and slightly dorsal to the cerebral ganglion. In mosl instances it, is 

 a fairly sharply defined though sheet-like structure, ye1 it may 

 originate in the form of several distinct masses whose anastomosing 

 fibres form a distinct plexus before they become fused into a single 

 mas 



The ganglia of the visceral loop arise simultaneously. The sub- 

 intestinal occupies a position on the right side of the body at the 

 intersection of the neck and visceral mass; the supra-intestinal lies 

 approximately in the midline at, the junction of the neck and visceral 

 ina--: while the visceral ganglion i- somewhal to the right of the 

 midline and anterior to the terminal section of the intestine. Even 

 while these ganglia are in process of formation delicate fibrils from 

 some of the component, bipolar cells push out between the yolk 

 granules and increasing in number ultimately form the connectives 

 of the visceral loop. The osphradial ganglion rapidly becomes 

 imbedded in the margin of the mantle, and. a- in the adult, i- united 

 by a connective with the supra-intestinal ganglion. In many 

 instances a delicate connective unite- the sub- and supra-intestinal 

 ganglia; no trace of it ha- been found to exisl in adult specimens. 

 The right-sided zygoneurous condition, the union of the pleural and 

 the sub-intestinal ganglion, characteristic of the adult appears to put 

 in an appearance shortly before the embryo escapes from the parent. 

 At the time of hatching there are traces of a plexus extending 

 !t the margin of the mantle, hut it i- very dun and indistinct. 

 When i' becomes clearly defined throughout ami capable of being 

 traced it ha- all of the essential feature- of the marginal mantle 

 nerve of the adult. 



With the increased growth of the mantle and the development of 

 an extensive mantle cavity (beyond the stage represented in text 

 fig. '_' the visceral mase between the mantle margin and the neck 

 tie- completely covered. Furthermore, the absorption of the 

 included yolk create* a more flattened condition of the embryo, 

 which ultimatel} brings the nervous system into the position charac- 

 terisl ic of t he adult. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF ["HE ICADEM1 OF [Oct., 



NEW OR LITTLE-KNOWN CRANE-FLIES FROM THE UNITED STATES AND 

 CANADA: TIPULIDJE, FTYCHOPTERIDJE, DIPTERA. PART 3. 



i;v < ii \ui.i:- P. ALEXANDER. 

 InTBODUCTION. 



In this paper, the author has undertaken a review of the Nearctic 

 specie- of the difficull Eriopterine g< uus, Gonomyia, and has supplied 

 figures of the wings and hypopygia of the various species. The 

 remainder of the paper is in the nature of a continuation of the first 

 two papers under this title. 1 In order to complete the data in some 

 sections of the family, especially the genus Geranomyia, it has been 



deemed advisable to add a few extra-limitaJ species, i i of these 



being Antillean or Middle American forms whose northward range 

 is still not well understood. 



Description of New or Little-known Species. 



Family TIPULID^!. 



Subfamily I.IMM >BIN .V.. 



Tribe Limnobini. 



GERANOMYIA Haliday. 



Geranomyia Ealiday; Entomologists Magazine, vol. 1, ]>. M4 (1S33). 



Geranomyia canadensis Westwood. (Plate XXV, fig. 1.) 



•hynchus canadensis Westwood; Annates Soci£t£ Entomologique 

 de France, p. 683 L835 , 



A wide-ranging species in the central and eastern United States, 

 from New Brunswick and the Hudsons Bay region, south to Georgia 

 and Florida, wesl to Michigan, Illinois, Kentucky. Tennessee and 

 Texas. Studies by Knab 2 and others .-how this fly to feed on nectar 

 of Composite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago, Aster, Silphium, Rud- 

 beckia, Verbesina, Cacalia, etc.; in the late afternoon and evening. 

 A male from Brownsville, Texas, in May (C. H. T. Townsend). 



'Proceedings oi The \< idem? of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



ber, 191 1. pp. 579-606. 

 Proceedings of The A< ldemt of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



aber, 1915, pp. 158-51 1. 

 - The Feeding Habits <>f Geranomyia: Proceedings of tin Entomological Society 

 oj Washington, vol. 12, pp. 61-65 1910 , 




.1916.] NATURAL SCIEN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. hS7 



■ Geranomyia guatemalensis -M' n Extra-lim 



Related to canadensis Westwood; head gray with a narrow median 

 .line; thorax yellowish brown with three indistincl stripes; femora 

 with a brownish subterminal annulus; abdominal tergitea ringed 

 brown and yellowish. 



Male. — Leuuth. excluding the rostrum, 6.5 mm.; wing, t>.7 mm.; 

 rostrum, 4 mm. 



Female. — Length as above, 6.8 mm.; wing, 8 mm.: rostrum, 4.1 

 mm. 



Rostrum elongate, brown, more darkened toward the apex. 

 Antennae rather short, black, the scape dark brown; flagellar 

 ments. rounded-oval. Head gray with a delicate, more or less 

 distinct, median line. 



Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown, the prsescutum with three 

 broad, though rather indistinct, brown -tripes, the middle -tripe 

 d behind, no1 attaining the suture; scuta! lobes brown, median 

 area of the scutum and the scutellum pale yellow; postno turn pale 

 whitish gray, narrowly blackened medially. Pleura dull brownish 

 yellow. Halteres brownish yellow, the knobs darker. Legs with 

 the coxa? brownish yellow; trochanter- yellow; femora lighl brown 

 with :i broad, subterminal, brown annulus, the extreme tip paler; 

 tibiae lighl brownish, the tips narrowly dark brown; tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings nearly hyaline; stigma distinct, oval, dark brown. Venation: 

 Sc long, extending to aboul two-fifths the length of the sector; 

 R elongate, almosl straight. 



Abdominal tergitea dark In-own, narrowly margined caudally and 

 laterally with dull yellow; basal sternites dull yellowish, more brown 

 on the intermediate segments. Male bypopygium with thi penis- 

 guard very long and prominenl . 



Habitat. < ruatemala. 



Solotype, ■".Aixuna. Guatemala; altitude 2,000 eel Dr.G.Eisi 



Allotype, . . topotypic. 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species differs from the Nearctic 0. canaden in the clear 

 gray head, in the subterminal brown femoral ring, qo1 with a black 

 tip as in cana iard, etc. 



Oeranomyia knabiana ip n l iti 



!;• ited to ■■<■ • W< ■'••• I; rostrum elongate, black; head 



dark brown; thorax brownish yellow, the prsBscutum with a broad 

 median stripe; femora with an indistincl brown ring before the tip; 

 w ings with subcosta very long. 




188 PRO< I BDINOS "I l in: 14 IDEMT OF [( >d . 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, aboul 1.2 nun.- wing, 

 5 min. ; rostrum, aboul 2.8 nun. 



Elostrum elongate, dark brownish black. Antenna dark brown, 

 moderately elongated. Head dark brown with a narrow median 

 Mack line; head constricted behind. 



Mesonotal prsescutum brownish yellow, brighter in front, with a 

 very broad median -tripe thai is pale anteriorly, dark brown behind; 

 in the Aguna paratype the prsescutum is scarcely marked a1 all, in 

 the allotype the -trine i- distind for its entire length; lateral stripes 

 not clear: scutum brownish yellow medially, the lobes dark hrown; 

 scutellum pale dirty yellow; postnotum brown. Pleura brownish 

 yellow. Halteres short, dark In-own, the stem more yellowish. 

 Legs with the coxa- and trochanters dull yellow; femora yellowish 

 brown with a very indistinct brownish subapical annulus; tibia 

 dull yellow, darkening into hrown at the tip; tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings hyaline, the stigma oval, lu-own; veins dark hrown. Venation: 

 Sc very long, extending to two-thirds the length of the sector; Sbi 

 at the tip of Sc : Rs moderately long, a little over two times the 

 basal deflection of R i+i . 



Abdominal tergites hrown; sternites yellow, the basal segments a 

 little darker. 



Habitat. — Cent ral America. 



Holotype, ? . Canal Zone, Panama (A. H. Jennings). 



Allotype, cf , Aguna. Guatemala, altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen). 



Paratype-. ; , wit h t he allotype; 9 , Antigua, Guatemala, Septem- 

 ber, L902 Dr. G. Eisen). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Similar to G. canadensis, hut smaller, the femora without a black 

 tip. the praescutaJ pattern more distinct behind, etc. 



Thi- interesting little species is dedicated to Frederick Knab, custo- 

 dianof the Diptera in the I'nited States National Museum, as an appre- 

 ciation of his studies on the feeding habits of this genus of crane-flies. 



Geranomyia distincta Doane. (Plate XXV, fig. 2.) 



Geranomyia distincta Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, p. L86 1900). 



This fly will probably be found to have a wide range throughout 



the central and eastern United States, it being now known from 



< lonnecticut and New Jersey to Texas. 



Geranomyia vanduzeei -i> n. 



Related to distincta Doane; rostrum moderate in length; head pale 

 gray; thorax reddish brown without stripes; wings clear without a 




l'.Uti. NATURAL B< IK\< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



distinct stigma] spot; femora dark brown before the tip, tibiae Mack 

 at The tip. 



Male. Length, excluding the rostrum, about G.5 mm.; wing, 

 6.6 mm. ; rostrum, aboul 2.."> mm. 



Female. — Length as above, aboul 5 mm.: wing, 6 mm.; rostrum, 

 about 1.8 mm. 



Rostrum moderate in length, brownish yellow, darker towards 

 the tip. Antenna? with tin- first segment brownish yellow, the 

 remainder of the antennae dark brownish black; flagellar segments 

 short-oval. Head light gray, more yellowish behind. 



Thorax rcddi.-h brown without distinct stripes or markings of any 

 kind, the 3cutellum a little more yellow. Pleura pale reddish brown 

 with a very sparse grayish bloom. Halteres short, pale yellow, the 

 knobs a little darker. Legs with the coxae reddish; trochanters dull 

 yellow; femora dull yellow with a broad brownish annulus 

 immediately before the tip; tibiae brownish yellow, the extreme tip 

 black; tarsi yellowish brown, the apical segments darker, \\ . - 

 nearly hyaline: stigma indistinct; veins dark brown, ( . Sc and ' 

 a little more yellowish. Venation: Sc long, extending over one-half 

 the length of the radial sector. 



Abdominal tergites dull yellow with a narrow, i rly indicated, 



brown sublateral line; sternites yellowish, on the terminal segments 

 more reddish. 



The female is quite similar to tin- male, but -mailer with a -till 

 shorter rostrum thai is not so noticeably pallid basally; abdominal 

 U rgites brown, the last tergite more yellowish. 



Habitat. Southeastern United States. 



II ". Braidentown, Manatee County, Florida, March 



M. < . Van Du/. 



Allotype, . with the type. 



I'alatojiot vpe-. 2 cf 9 . 



The type i- m the collection of Mr. Villi Du/ee. to wholll t he 



specii - is resp< ctfully dedicated. 



In it- unmarked thorax this Bpeciee run- closesl to G. distincta 

 which ha- a longer ro-truui and l.nk- the dark markings on the 

 femora and the blacl to the t ibiae. 



Oeranomyia intermedia W 



Limn* I t Diptei British Museum, vol. 1. p. 17 



The following specimene are at hand: \ 



A . Kingston, Jamaica, February 10, L903 M. Grabham), a 9 , 




I'.'ii PROCEEDINGS 01 THE \< \m:my OF [Oct., 



-Mine locality and collector, April 9, 1903; a \ , . Havana, Cuba, 

 April, 1900 J. EL Taylor). The species may be looked for in the 



Miami section of Florida. 

 The ground-color of the thorax la yellowish, the stripes usually 



indistinct, somewhat plumbeous, the middle stripe narrowly divided. 



The handed ahdoiiien offers an easj recognition character. 



Geranomyia diversa Oaten Saoken. (Plate XXV, 6 



Geranomyia diveraa Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 207 L859 , 



Northeastern and central United State-, ranging from Maine to 

 Virginia, wesl to Arkansas. 



At "The [locks" wharf on the .lames Eliver, Virginia, while a 

 member of the second trip of the " Ecphora, " under Prof. Gilberl 1 ). 

 Harris, of < Jornell University, in finest of Tertiary fossils, I found this 

 species in large numbers resting on the dripping, water-spattered 

 cliffs of the Yorktown (upper Miocene) formations. On July 2, 

 1915, they occurred in large numbers, together with Dicranomyia 

 badia Walker. Many were found to be heavily infested with a 

 species of Trombidium, while others, in large numbers, were found 

 beaten into the mud by heing struck by the heavy particles of water 

 dripping from above. 



In the north (Ithaca, New York) they occur in mid-summer 

 (August) on rich vegetation along streams. The adult Hies feed on 

 various Composite flowers (Solidogo, Erigeron) and also on Daucus 

 (Umbelliferae). 



A . specimen, Little Rock, Arkansas, July 11, 1904 (H. S. Barber). 



Geranomyia domingensis sp. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Ihlated to cinereinota Alexander; rostrum short; head black, 

 enclosing a silvery triangle; praescutum brownish gray with a broad 

 blackish median line; wings nearly hyaline, stigma indistinct; vein 

 Sc moderate in length. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, about 5.2 mm.; wing, 

 5.5 mm.; rostrum, about 1.6 nun. 



Rostrum very -hort, black, palpi Particulate, black. Antennae 

 with the firs! segmenl black; segment two dark brown; llagellum 

 brownish black with a whitish pubescence; first scapal segment 

 elongated; second segment subglobular; flagellar segments oval. 

 Head velvety-black, enclosing a large silvery triangle with its point 

 directed cephalad. 



Mesontal praescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median 

 line; lateral -tnp<- less distinct, broad, brownish; scutum brown, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



the lobes scarcely darker than the median area; Bcutellum pallid: 

 postnotum plumbeous brown with a sparse grayish bloom. Pleura 

 reddish yellow with a lighl gray bloom. Balteres yellow, the knobs 

 brown. Leg- with the coxa' and trochanters dull yellow; femora 

 uniform light brown: tibia? and tarsi dark brown. Wings nearly 

 hyaline; stigma indistinct; veins 'lark brown. Venation: Sc mod- 

 erate in length, extending to about one-fourth the length of the 

 sector; Rs elongate, somewhal arcuated at it- origin; cross-vein 

 /• at the tip nf A',: basal deflection of R 4 t more than two times the 

 length of the r-m cross-vein; cell tsi M? elongated, the cell being 

 longer than vein Cu\ beyond it, though shorter than vein a7 1+! 

 beyond it; basal deflection of Cu\ just before the fork of M. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the Bternites rather light yellow. 



Habitat. Santo I lomingo. 



Holotype, . San Francisco Mountains, Santo Domingo, Septem- 

 ber, L905 Aug. Busck). 



Ty])<- in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species is closely related to G. dru n inota in its -hurt rostrum, 

 conspicuous black thoracic stripe, uniform femora, etc.; it is a smaller 

 fly, with the head black and -i I very, without the clear gray coloration 

 of the prsescutum, the stigma indistinct and the flagellar segments 

 much -dorter and more globular than in the corresponding sex of 

 dm reinota. 



Geranomyia tibialis Loew. (PI 5.) 



Ap Loew; Linnsea Entomologica, vol. 5, i>. 397 1851 , 



A wide-ranging Bpecies throughout the Antilles and southward 

 over a large portion of South and Central America. The following 

 unrecorded stations are before me, representing the Loe\* collections 

 in the Museum of < Somparative Zoology, the American Museum and 

 the United State- National Museum: 



'»/, part of the Loew collection in the M . ( '. /., bearing the label 

 ''/•(/_/■ in Osten Sacken's writing, but certainly not that apt 



because of the black and enlarged apices of the anterior tibia?; a d" , 

 Baracoa, September, 1901 Aug. Busck I. 

 Santo Domingo, several f ■■- . Sanchez, June 7 12, 1915; \ San 



cisco Mountain-, September, 1905 ^ug. Busck . 

 Porto /.' Iguadilla, January, 1899. 



\l,,r,' > i mi . a . . Plymout Ii V ■ I >n\ • 

 < 'anal '/.<>"< .a . A. II. Jennie 



The species may be looked for in the Miami (Dade < ounty) 

 section of Florida. \ 




492 pro* i sdinos of the \> u>arc <»r [Oct., 



Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander. (Plate XXV, Qa 



Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander; Iran-act ions of the American Ento- 

 mological Societj . vol. 12, pp. *.•. 10 1916 



The following additional distributional records: 

 Mexico, Cordoba, April 1. L908 I ECnab). 



itemala, Escuintla, November 12, 1902 (Eisen). 

 Costa Rica, Cache, March 3, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Tabernilla (Busck l. 



Geranomyia certhia sp. n. (Extra-limital). 



Rostrum elongate; head dark gray; praescutum yellow with three 

 dark brown stripes; legs with the femora and tibiae tipped with dark 

 brown; wings hyaline with a prominent oval stigma; cord and outer 

 end of cell 1st M -earned with pale brown; abdomen brown with 

 tw.t black longitudinal dorsal stripes. 



Male. Length, excluding the rostrum, 6 mm.; wing, 7 mm.; 

 rostrum, about ."> mm. 



/•'' malt . Length as above, 6.5 mm.; wing, 8.4 mm.; rostrum, about 

 5 nun. 



Rostrum dark brownish black, long and slender, especially toward 

 the tip. Antennae short, black. Head gray, brighter just behind 

 the antenna': vertex dark gray with an impressed black line that is 

 narrowed behind; occiput suffused with dull yellow. 



Mesonotal praescutum pale buff-yellow with three broad, dark 

 brown -tripes, the median one double, ending just before the suture; 

 lateral stripes shorter, crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal 

 lobe-: remainder of the scutum buff-yellow; scutellum buff-yellow, 

 a little obscured on either side; postnotum light plumbeous brown 

 with a very delicate impressed median line. Pleura yellow with a 

 sparse pale gray bloom. Halteres yellow, the knobs darker brown. 



_- with the coxa' and trochanters dull yellow; femora brownish 

 yellow, the tip- broadly dark brown: tibia- light brown, the tips 

 narrowly dark brownish black; tarsi brown. Wings hyaline, the 



_ na prominent, ova), dark in-own; cord and outer end of cell 

 Id M : narrowly seamed with pale brown; apex of the wing a little 

 darkened; vein- dark brown. Venation: Sc long, ending about 

 opposite mid-length of the sector. 



lominal tergites dark brown, the segments paler, yellowish, 

 laterally, more blacki-h sublaterally, forming two dorsal black lines 

 down the abdomen; sternites brownish yellow. 

 Habitat. — Guatemala. 



Holotype, cf, Antigua, Guatemala, September, 1902 (Dr. G. Eisen). 




1916.] NAT! HAL S< [ENCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Allotype, Q . with The type. 



Paratopotypes, 3 cf 9 . 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This well-marked species suggest 3 G. 1 rub rU ini Alexander annidata 

 Enderlein) in its large size and long rostrum, bu1 differs in the wing- 

 pattern, the darker apices to the femora and tibia and the two 

 longitudinal black bands <>n tin- abdomen, not annulated as in that 

 species. 



Geranomyia virescens I 



Loew; Linnaea Entomologica, vol. 5, p. 398 l s -"i 



The following records for this fly admitting it to the United 81 

 fauna: 



Biscayne Bay, Dade County, Florida (Mrs. Slosson . 



Miami, Dade County, Florida (Knab), December 24, 1914, feeding 

 on the blossoms of Persea (Lauracea . 



Geranomyia rostrata Bay. (Plate XXV, Bg, 7. 



himnabia ro trata Say; Journal Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 



vol. :;. p. 22 :- 



This species ranges over the eastern United States and Canada, 

 from Maine and Canada ti» Florida, wesl to Illinois and Louisiana. 

 What has been determined as this species ranges over the Antilles 

 and the records for the Greater Antilles, at least, are probably 

 correct. Knab's record- show tlii- species to teed on various Com- 

 posite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago and Helianthu 



Geranomyia ibis 



Related to insignu Loew; head gray with two black lines; prascu- 

 timi grayish with three narrow black lines; pleura gray; femora 

 yellowish apically with a subterminal brown annul us; wings nearly 

 hyaline with a sparse darker pattern. 



Female. Length, excluding the rostrum, 7 mm.; wing, 7.-". mm.; 

 rostrum, 2.3 mm. 



Rostrum rather short, Mack. Antenna; Mack, the flagellar 

 ments short-oval. Head gray with two linear, parallel. Muck marks 

 ading fn.m the vertex to the occiput. 



Pronotum brownish gray, Bhiny Mack on the dorso-median line. 

 Mesonotal prsescutum pale reddish gray, with three very narrow 

 black stripes, the median stripe only a little broader than the lateral 

 -tnpe-. narrowed caudally and nol attaining the suture; lateral 

 -tripe- long, slightly convergenl and more brownish behind, crossing 

 the suture and occupying the proximal edge of the scutaj lobes 




194 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE A.CADBMT OF [Oct., 



scutum, scutellum and postnotum reddish gray. Pinna uniform 

 gray. Ealteres Bhort, yellow, the knobs In-own. Legs with the 

 coxse brownish yellow; trochanters yellow; femora brown, the basal 

 and apical quarters yellowish, a rather broad, In-own subterminal 



ring; tibia? and tarsi dark In-own. Wings almost hyaline, the costal 



area pale yellow: stigma rounded, pair brownj a darker brown spot 



at the tip of Sc and at the origin of Rs; a very indistinct seam along 

 the cord. Venation (Plate \\\ . fig. 8): Sc rather long, ending al 



about one-third the length of the sector. 



Abdominal tergites lu-own, the Bternites more yellowish. 



Habitat. South-central United States. 



Holotype, 9 , Hot Springs, Arkansas, June 20, 1904 (H. S. Barber). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Differs from G. insignis Loew (Plate XXV, fig. 9) in the more 

 grayish ground-color of the praescutum with still narrower stripes, 

 the clear gray pleura and the paler wing-pattern; differs from 

 pi umbei pleura Alexander in the very narrow prsescutal stripes, these 

 stripes not as wide as the interspaces, the pale scutal lobes and the 

 pale wing-pattern; from numenius Alexander it differs in the much 

 shorter rostrum. 



Geranomyia costaricensis sp. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Related to insignis Loew; mesonotal prsescutum with two approxi- 

 mated dorsal brown stripes; pleura yellow with a large brown mark 

 on the mesopleurites; femora with the apex broadly yellow, with a 

 narrow subterminal ring; wings subhyaline with four dark brown 

 subcostal marks and paler seams to the veins. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 8 mm.; wing, 7.8 mm.; 

 rostrum, about 3.3 mm. 



Rostrum moderately elongated, dark brownish black. Antennae 

 with the first segment black with a sparse grayish bloom; second 

 segment brownish, paler toward the tip; flagellar segments black, 

 elongate-oval. Head brownish gray. 



Mesonotal prsescutum clear light yellow with two broad reddish 

 brown dorsal stripes, one on either side of the very narrow middle 

 line, these -tripes barely attaining the suture; lateral margin of the 

 sclerite brown, widely separated from the median stripes; scutum 

 with the median area broadly yellowish white, the lobes brown; 

 scutellum pale; postnotum yellowish brown. Pleura dull yellow, 

 a large brown blotch on the mesopleurites and a similar one on the 

 lateral portions of the postnotum. Halteres yellow, the knobs 

 brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light yellow; femora 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



brownish yellow, the apices broadly light yellow with a dark brown 

 subterminal ring, this ring aboul one-half the extenl of the pah' tip; 

 tibiae yellowish brown: tarsi brown. Wings with a pale grayish 

 suffusion, with brown clouds and Beams a- follows: larger ones :it 

 the stigma, at the tip of Sc and origin of ffs, midlength of the subcostal 

 cell and at the base of this cell: paler brown clouds ai the tip- of 

 most of the vein-, the cross-veins ami deflections -earned with this 

 same color. Venation: Sc long, extending to about one-third the 

 length of the sector; basal deflection of /, . , very long, the cross-vein 

 r-m correspondingly reduced. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the segments a little brighter at 

 their bases; sternites dull yellow. 



Habitat.- ( Josta Rica. 



Holotype. o, Cartago, Costa Rica, September 17. L909 (P. P. 

 Calvert). 



Type in the collection of the American Entomological Society . 



This species differs from all the members of the insignis group 

 gnis, lunula, numenius, plumbeipleura, ibis,et al.) in the peculiar 

 pattern of the praescutum. 



Geranomyia subinsignis -i' " (Ertra-limitalO 



Related t" insignia Loew; thorax grayish with three broad dark 

 brown stripes; femora with a broad subterminal brown annulus; 

 wings grayish with extensive brown markings. 



Female. Length, excluding the rostrum, 5.7-6 mm.: wing, 6 I 

 mm.: rostrum, aboul 2.2 2.5 mm. 



Rostrum moderately elongated, black. Antennae black. Head 

 blacl< ; passing into dark gray on the vertex; a narrow silvery median 



line extends from the front to the occiput. 



Pronotum dull brownish yellow with ;i dark brown median line. 

 Mesonotal praescul um lighl gray wit h t hree dark bro^ n si ripe-, nearly 

 subequal in width and much broader than the pale interspa 

 middle -tripe narrowed behind, barely attaining the suture; lateral 

 -tnpe- narrowed in front, broadened behind, crossing the suture 

 and suffusing the scuta! lobe-: mediae area of the scutum and the 

 -cut. Hum pale dirty brown: postnotum brown. Pleura brownish 

 plumbeous. Halteres yellow, the knob- brown. Leg* with the 

 coxae .ind trochanters pale yellow; femora lighl brown, passing into 

 lighl yellow at the tip. this pale area including -i broad dark brown 

 Bubterminal annulus; in the Panaman paratype, the brown annulus 

 : ;. broad, encroaching upon the yellow tip: the pah area a1 'he 

 tip i- aboul one-half 'he extenl of the brown annulus, which in turn 




P.iti PROCEEDINGS OF nil: kCAOEMI OF [Oct., 



is a little longer than or subequal t « » the yellow area proximad to it. 

 Wings with a pale gray tinge, the costal margin with three dark 

 brown blotches, the largesl at the origin of Ri and the tip of Sc, 

 Btigma rectangular; a large blotch at the middle of Sc, pale brown 

 Beams along the cross-veins and deflections of veins; tip of the wing 

 a little darkened: vein- dark brown, B between the brown markings 

 brighl yellow. Venation: Sc rather short, extending to aboul 

 one-quarter the length of the sector; Sc t at the tip of Sci] basal 

 deflection of /,\ long, restricting the r-wi cross-vein. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the ninth segment more yellowish; 

 sternites yellowish brown, the apical segments more yellowish. 



Habitat- ( SentraJ America. 



Holotype, i . A.guna, Guatemala, altitude 2,000 feel (Dr. (J. Eiscn). 



Paratopotype, } ;paratype, i , Cucaracha, Canal Zone, November 

 17. 1908, No. 11 (C. H. Hath). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Related to insignia Loew, but smaller, the thorax grayish with the 

 brown -tripe- broader, the subterminal brown annulus on the femora 

 much broader, the wings grayish with the brown markings larger 

 and darker;' it is a much smaller species than plumbeipleura (wing 

 and body, over 8 mm. ; rostrum, 3 mm. J with the mesonotal coloration 

 more grayish, the wings with the pattern not so dark, but more 

 extensive, the interspaces of the costal region not so brightened, etc. 



Tribe Antochini. 

 This is one of the smaller of the crane-fly tribes, the species of the 

 eastern United States and Canada being as follows: 

 Antocha saxicola Osten Sackeii. 



nadian and Transitional zones of the east, ranging from Ontario 

 and Quebec, south to Georgia, west to Winnipeg, Michigan and 

 Illinois. In New York and New England it flies from May 13 to 

 September 2.">. 



Atarba picticornis Osten Sacken. 



Canadian-Transitional and Transitional zones of the eastern 

 United States, ranging from New York and Massachusetts, south to 

 Virginia and North Carolina, wesl to Indiana and Tennessee. In 

 New York and New England it Hies from June 19 to July 13, having 

 an unusually short flight-period. In the south it flies later (October 

 7, Tennessee) and appears earlier (May 29, Maryland). 



Dicranoptycha germana Oaten Sacken. | Plate XXV, fig. 10.) 



nadian life-zone of the northeastern United State-, ranging 

 from New York, Vermont and New I lamp-hire, south, in the moun- 




1916.] NATURAL 6< CENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



tains, to North Carolina. In New York and New England it flies 

 from June 21 to Augusl 8, being quite common in late June and 

 throughout July on vegetation in cool wooded places, usually along 

 streams. 



Dicranoptycha nigripes I >=ten Sacken. 



Known only from the type-locality, Dalton, Georgia. 



Dicranoptycha sobrina OBten Sacken Plate XX \ , fig li 



Transitional and Austral life-zones, wide-ranging throughout 

 the northern portions of the United States, from Ontario and 

 New York, south to North Carolina, west to British Columbia, 

 California and New Mexico. In the vicinity of Washington it flies 

 from April 20 to Augusl 31, while in tic northeastern part <>i' it- 

 range New York and Ontario) it appears even later. Augusl 30 to 

 September 20. 



Dicranoptycha winnemana sp. a. 1'lnt. XXV, fig 12 



Transitional life-zone, ranging from Maryland to Georgia. 



Elephantomyia westwoodi Osten Sacken. 



inadian and Canadian-Transitional life-zones of northeastern 

 United States and eastern Canada, ranging from Ontario, Quebec, 

 and Nova Scotia, south i<> North < larolina, wesl to Wisconsin. In 

 New York and New England it flies from June 5 to Augusl 13, being 

 common throughoul late June and July. 



Khamphidia albitarsis Oaten B&cken. 



Tropical life-zone, ranging from Santo Domingo, through the 

 Antilles to St. Vincenl and British Guiana; also in < !entral America. 

 It may possibly occur in the Miami section of Florida. 



Rhamphidia flavipes 



Wide-ranging throughout the eastern parts of North America, 

 from Ontario, and Quebec south to Georgia and Florida, west to 

 Manitoba, Wisconsin, Missouri and Texas. In New York and 

 New England, it the- from May 29 to Vugusl 29; in the southern 

 parts of its range much earlier (Florida, March l4;Texai March I s . 



Rhamphidia mainensis »]• . n. > I'l.t. XXV, fig 11 



1 nadian-Transitiona] life-zone of the Dortheastern United Stal 

 ranging from Maine to Maryland, wesl to [llinois. 



Teucholabis carolinensis AleiM let. 



Lower Austral life-zone, known only from the type-locality, 

 ah. South ( larolina, Augusl 19, 1915. 




4 ( .»S PRO( I EDINGS "i nil' \< \m.\n OF ' »'•' ., 



Teucholabis complex. i ten. Plato \.\v, fig ]. 



Transitional and Austral life-zones of the eastern United States, 

 ranging from New York and Connecticut, south to Georgia, west 

 to Illinois and Kentucky. In the vicinity of Washington it flies 



from May 7 to July 25. 



Teucholabis luoida Ali'xmi.l.T. (Plato XXV, fig. 18). 



Known only from the type-locality, Distrid of Columbia, August 

 22, L916. 



Toxorrhina magna Oaten Saoken. 



Austral life-zones of the southeastern Fnited States, ranging from 

 New Jersey south to Florida: in New Jersey flying from July 19 to 

 August 12, in the south its flight-period being much more extensive 

 (Crescent City, Florida, April 21; Thalman, Georgia, April 28,* 

 Bainbridge, Georgia, September, October). 



Toxorrhina muliebris Osten Saoken. 



< Sanadian-Transitional life-zones of the northeastern United 

 Stat.-, ranging from New York and Maine, south to Maryland, west 

 to Michigan. In New York and New England it flies from June 21 

 to August 8, being common in places in late June and throughout 

 July. 



RHAMPHIDIA Meigen. 



Rliam]>ln<liu Meigen; Systematische Beschreibun<i, vol. 0, p. 2S1 (INoOj. 

 Rhamphidia mainensis sp. n. 



Rostrum elongated; head light gray with a large brown blotch 

 between the eyes; prax'utum light yellowish brown with three dark 

 brown stripes; wings unmarked except the pale stigma; legs dark 

 brown; abdomen dark brown, the basal sternites and the hypopygium 

 yellowish. 



Male. — Length. 6 7.5 mm.; wing, 5.8-7.7 mm. 



Rostrum elongated, black. Antennae black, the second segment 

 a little paler apically. Head light gray with a large brown blotch 

 between the eyes. 



Mesonotal prsescutum lighl yellowish brown with three dark brown 

 stripe-, the middle one broadest, double, becoming indistinct before 

 the suture; lateral -tripe- shorter, crossing the suture and suffusing 

 the scutal lobes except behind; median area of the scutum and the 

 bellum pale yellowish gray; postnotum yellowish, darker, more 

 brownish, on the sides. Pleura brownish with a golden-yellow 

 pollen. Halteres lighl brown, the knobs dark brown. Legs with 

 the coxge and trochanters yellowish brown; femora dark brown, 

 a little paler basally; tibia' and tarsi dark brown. Win"- sub- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



hyaline, the stigma indistinct, brownish; veins dark brown, sub- 

 costa more yellowish. Venation (Plate XXV, fig. 14) Rs moderate 

 in length, about one and one-half the length of the deflection of 

 R iT .&; cell 1st Mi small to elongate; basal deflection of Cu\ variable 

 in position, before, at or beyond the fork of M. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the bypopygium brighl reddish 

 yellow; sternites two to five dull browni-h yellow basally, the caudal 

 margins dark brown; segments six to seven dark brown: eighl and 

 nine dull yellow. 



The Maryland paratype is strikingly -mailer | the smallesl measure- 

 ments given) I han the typical Maine material and ha- the stigma more 

 distinct, but is undoubtedly the same species. 



Habitat. Northeastern United Sta 



Holotype, cf, Orono, Penobscot County, Maine. June 12, L913 

 (Alexander). 



Paratopotypes, 4 cT's; paratype, d\ Byattsville, Maryland, 

 tember 1. L912 (Malloch); c\ bake Forest, Ellinois, July 8, L906 

 Needham). 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This species differs conspicuously from the only other eastern 

 -peri,- of the genus, R. flavipes Macquari (Plate XXV, fig. 13), 

 in the elongate rostrum, the uniformly dark legs, the clear wings and 

 the abdominal coloration. It is much more closely related to R. 

 Iongiro8tri Meigen western Palaearctic region) which bas theantennal 

 flagellar segments more elongated with longer verticils, the thorax 

 differently patterned, the wings broader with a higher cell tst M . etc. 



ATARBA 



Atarba Oaten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, pt. 1. 



I. 127 ; 



Atarba cincticornis ip. d. ital | 



Alexander m pari : [Yanaactionfl of the American I 

 mologicaJ Society, vol. W, p. 232 191 t 



Antennae of the male greatly elongated, the flagellar segments 

 bicolored, t he basal half of each segmenl black, the apical half yellow, 

 the segments with long outstretched hair-: cell 1st M of the wings 

 very small. 



MaU . Lengi h, 1.2 mm.; \\ ing, 5 nun. 



Rostrum and palpi reddish. Antenna' with the basal segment 

 reddish; second 3egmen1 dark brown; fiagellar segments with the 

 basal half to three-fifths black, the remainder of each segmenl lighl 

 yellow; fourth segment largely blackish; flagellar segments with 




500 PROi ii DINGS "i mi: i> \m\n OF |< »<•<., 



long outsl retched hair-; antennae very elongated, nearly a- long as I be 

 body, the individual segments of the flagellum being greatly elongated. 



Head reddish yellow. 



Mesonotum reddish yellow with an impressed median line <>n the 

 prsBscutum. Pleura reddish with a very Bparse grayish bloom. 

 Ealterea yellowish, the knobs darker a1 their tips. Legs with the 

 coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora yellow, uarrowly and 

 indistinctly brownish at the tips; tibise brownish yellow: tarsi 

 yellowish brown, the tips of the segments brown, the two terminal 

 segments entirely brown. Wings with a grayish yellow tinge, 

 stigma very Indistinct, grayish; veins brown. Venation: Sc ending 

 about opposite the origin of Rs; ffs short, a little longer than the 

 basal deflection of Rt +f ,; cell 1st M- : small. 



Abdominal segments dull yellow, brownish laterally; a brownish 

 black subterminal ring. 



Habitat. — British Guiana. 



Holotype, o\ Mallali, Demerara River, British Guiana, March 25, 

 1913 (H. S. Parish). 



Type in the collection of the author. 



A. '••'"< ticornis is to be separated from the other species of the 

 genus with bicolored antenna' iii t hat it is 1 he basal half of the flagellar 

 segments thai is black instead of the apical half (as in pidicornis 

 < »-t in Sacken, varicornis Alexander). 



DICRANOPTYCHA Oaten Sacken. 



Dicranoptycha Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 217 (1859). 



Dicranoptycha winnemana sp. n. 



Altogether pale brownish yellow; wings pale yellow, the costal 

 margin fringed with long golden hairs; radial sector about one and 

 one-half the length of cell 1st M s . 



Mule. — Length, 6.8-7.2 mm.; wing, 7-7.6 mm. 

 ale- Length. 7.8 N.N nun.; wing, 8.2 8.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brown, the latter darker. Antennse with the 

 first segmenl dark brown, grayish pubescenl ; second segment dark 

 brown; flagellum dull yellow. Head light gray. 



Mesonotal praescutum clear light brownish yellow without stripes; 

 BCUtellum and postnotum a little more yellowish. Pleura pale 

 reddish yellow. Halteres short, yellow. Legs with the coxae and 

 trochanter- pale yellow: femora and tibiae yellow; tarsi similar with 

 the four terminal segments and the tips of the metatarsi light brown. 

 Wings with the membrane tinged with yellow, tin- veins light brown; 




1916.] NATURAL S< [ENCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



■costal margin and the veins in the costal field with a fringe of long 

 golden hairs. Venation (Plate XXV, fig. 12): R& elongate, about 

 one-half Longer than the cell 1st M*. 



Abdominal segments brownish yellow with a subterminal brownish 

 black ring in the male, larking in the female. 



Habitat. — Eastern United State-. 



Holotype, d", Maryland, near Plununers Island, July 21. L91S 

 (Alexander . 



Allotype, ?. Plummers Island, Maryland, July 21, 1915 

 i Alexander). 



Paratopotypes, 1 d\ 10 $'s, (McAtee and Alexander); paratype, 

 9, Dead Run, Virginia, July 21, 1915 (McAtee ; '. Los1 Mountain, 

 Cobb County, Georgia, -July 13, L913 (Bradley 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This is probably the species thai Osten Sacken reten-ed to when 



he said ■•miniature specimens of a paler coloring (than sobrina), 



with uniformly pale feet, and without any trace of a darker tinge near 



the apex of the wings often occur."" These specimens do ao1 



represenl teneraJ insects, but fully colored specimens of both sexes, 



some of them taken in copulation. Besides the pale coloration, the 



elongate sector will disl inguisfa I be species from sobrina I Plate XXV, 



fig. II . 



Tribe Eriopterini. 



ERIOPTERA Meigen. 



rptera Meigen; [lligera Magazine, vol. 2, p. 262 i v 



Erioptera Erioptera laticeps ap. a. 



Bead very broad; coloration dark, the humeral triangles pale; 



pleura marked with brown and yellow; abdomen handed hrown and 



white; wings nearly hyaline. 



Mnl, . Lengl h. L6 mm. ; wing, 3.8 mm. 

 Female. Length, 5 mm.; wing, I mm. 



The specimens are described from alcoholic material. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 

 flagellar segments 3hort-oval, more elongated toward the tip of the 

 organ. Head very broad, especially behind; frontal tubercle dis- 

 tinct. Bead dark grayish brown, paler brown od the gense. 



Mesonotal praescutum dark hrown. the region before the pseudo- 

 Butural fovea? lighl yellow, triangular in outline; remainder of the 

 mesonotum -lark hrown. the Bcutellum yellow. Pleura mottled 

 hrown and hrowni-h yellow, the sternal region more brownish; a 



Monographs <>\ the I >ip »rth Amei p 119 lj 




502 PROCEEDINGS "I nil. LI IDBlfl OF [Oct.. 



group of about twenty long pale hairs on the caudal margin of the 

 mesepimeron just cephalad of the halteres. Halteres pale yellow 

 throughout, the knobs large. Legs with the coxa and trochanters 

 brown; femora dark brown; tibiae and tarsi, especially the terminal 

 segments of the Latter, paler brown. Wings subhyaline, the stigma 

 indistinct; veins brown. Venation (Plate XXVII, fig. 34). 



Abdominal tergites one and two dark In-own. three to eighl dark 

 brown, broadly margined caudally and more narrowly on the sides 

 with pale yellowish white, giving the organ a handed appearance; 

 pleura] integument pale; sternites similar to the tergites, but paler 

 brown. Male hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig. 97) with the pleurites 

 short and stout, the pleural appendages a dorsal cylindrical fleshy 

 lobe and a more ventral acute chitinized point with a smaller chitin- 

 ized lol>e on its ventral face; ninth tergite concave on the caudal 

 margin, underneath with two stout, chitinized lobes that are 

 decussate. 



The female has the tergal valves of the ovipositor long, strongly 

 upcurved, chitinized, brown; sternal valves short, pale, acutely 

 pointed. 



Habitat. — Western United States. 



Holotype, d\ Blue Lake, Humboldt County, California, June 

 20-27, 1907 (Bra. Hey i. 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 4 cf's. 



Type in the collection of Cornell University. 

 Erioptera (Mesocyphona> tantilla sp. n. 



Vertex unicolorous; mesonotum brown with three narrow blackish 



-tripe-; femora pale with a narrow, indistinct, suhterminal band; 



tal legion of the wings dark with tiny spots at the ends of Sc, 



/?i, Rt and R,; caudal cells of the wings with gray spots; cell 1st Mi 



closed. 



Male. Length, 1.5 mm.; wing, 3.6 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi light brown. Antennae reddish yellow, the 

 flagelhnn a little more brownish; flagellar segments very slender with 

 elongate verticils. Head brownish yellow without distinct markings, 

 the vertex with Dumerous long hairs. 



Mesonotal praescutum light brownish gray medially, more yellowish 

 laterally, the central portion delimited on either side by an indistinct 

 narrow brown line; a -till darker narrow brown median line, inter- 

 rupted at the level of the tuberculate pits; scutum with t he lobes pale 

 indistinctly marked with brown; an oblique row of about seven 




1916.] NATURAL SCTEN< BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



bristles crosses the lobe with a -mailer group on the proximal margin 

 of the lube; scutellum dark reddish brown, distinctly ami rather 

 broadly light yellow medially, the sides of the sclerite also passing 

 into yellowish; postnotum brownish gray with an indistinct narrow 

 brown median line. Pleura brownish yellow with a narrow brown 

 pleural stripe; the sternal region a little paler brown. Halteres 

 short, brown. Legs with the coxae lighl brown: trochanters dull 

 yellow: femora light brown, the apical quarter more yellowish and 

 enclosing a narrow brown subterminal annuhis; tibia- dull brownish 

 yellow, the tip- and the tarsi broken. Wings with the apical costal 

 portion .lark brown, the basal costal portion and the caudal portions 

 of the membrane much paler, subhy aline; cells C and Sc with a few 

 scattered brown -pot-; a -mall white spot at the tip of >V : . at the tip 

 of jRi, and near the tip- of /,' and A'.: the hyaline area- of the wingfi 

 with a rather dense but pale pattern of -mail spots and blotches, 

 brownish in the radial field, passing into grayish on the caudal fields 

 of the wings. Venation Plate XVII, fig. 35 cell 1st M t closed, the 

 outer deflection of M t ami cross-vein /// being present. 



Abdominal tergitea brownish yellow with abundant long pale 

 hair-: sternites yellowish gray, indistinctly trivittate with brown, 

 the segments with abundant pale brown setigerous puncture-. 



Habitat. Southeastern United States. 



Bolotype, cf, Jackson, Mississippi, Augusl 8 II. S. Barber). 



Type in the collection of the United Stat.- National Museum. 



Similar to E. costalis Alexander, 4 bul the cell tat M t closed and the 

 wing-pattern much heavier in the costal region. 



Erioptera Empeda- nyctops -i>. a. 



Pale yellow throughout; wings with Sc long; vein /,\ oblique; 

 cross-vein r present; cell / t M closed with the basal deflection of 

 beneath it. 



Male. Length, mm.; wing, 1.3 1. I mm. 



Female. Length, 3.8 I mm.; wihl', l."> 1.7 mm. 



Rostrum light yellow, palpi brown. Antenna- with the Boapal 

 • lit- pale yellow, the flagellum light brown. Bead bright light 

 yellow. Eyes large, black. 



Mesonotal prsescutum pale reddish yellow, unmarked, more 

 yellowish laterally: tuberculate pits pale, remote from the anterior 

 margin of the sclerite in Ei ioptera ; remainder of the mesonotum 

 more shiny. Pleura light yellow. I pale yellowish, the 



1 Proceedings of the Unib un, vol. it, p. 617 I'M.; 




.~)(il PRO< EEDINOS OP i HE L< \l>i:\i\ 01 !< >Ct., 



kn<>l>- brown. Legs with the coxse and trochanters dull yellow; 

 femora brown, a little paler basally; tibise and tarsi brown. Wings 

 subhyaline, Btigma indistinct, veins pale brownish yellow. Venation 

 I Plate HI. fig. 36 . Sc long, ending beyond the fork of the sector; Set 

 aboul four to six times as long as Set; Rs long, gently arcuated; cross- 

 vein /• present, connecting with A\- at about one-third it- length; 

 R, oblique ;i- in Gonomyia svbcinerea) ; cell 1st Mt closed; basal de- 

 flection of Cui&i about one-third to one-fourth tin- length of tin- cell. 



Abdomen brownish yellow, the sternites paler yellow. Male 

 hypopygium (Plate XX XL tig. 98) with the pleurites moderately 

 slender, broader basally, bearing three appendages the larj 

 appendage (a) very elongate, digitiform, with numerous long scattered 

 hairs on raised tubercles, the apex a little flattened, blunt, this 

 appendage decussate with it- fellow of the opposite side; the two 

 smaller appendages are -lender, one (6) directed proximad, decussate, 

 pale, the tip drawn out into a long point; the third appendage (c) 

 -lender, directed cephalad, slightly enlarged beyond the middle, the 

 tip subacute. Penis-guard rectangular, on the ventral side running 

 out into a sharp, median chitinizcd point. In a position of rest the 

 large finger-like appendages lie parallel and are more or less approxi- 

 mated, but not decussate, directed strongly ventrad. 



Females have the eyes smaller, the praescutum more yellowish; 

 ovipositor powerful, the valves elongate, upcurved toward the tips. 



Habitat.- Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, d\ Mountain Lake, Fulton County, Xew York, altitude 

 1,600 feet, June 13, 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , Buell Mountain, Fulton County, New York, altitude 

 1,800 feet, June 18, 1916. 



Paratopotypes, 2 cf's, 35 9 's. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



The holotype occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary 

 stream flowing into the lake on June 13. Associated with the 

 species at this time were the following crane-flies: Dicranomyia 

 pubi j» mi is. Or inns in ml,, II 'n, Ecinplera (Empeda) stigmatica, Limno- 

 phila toxoneura, L. areolata, I., nigripleura, L. brevifurca, L. rufibasis, 

 I., sylvia, Ulomorpha pilosella, Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) 

 tenui/i' ■-. R. Rhapidolabina) flaveola, R. (Plectromyin) modesta, 

 Tricyphona vernalis, T. calcar, Dolichopeza americana, Oropeza venosa, 

 Tipula senega, T. Iroquois, and T. hermannin. 



The allotype and several of the paratvpe- occurred along a small 

 temporary torrent pouring down the eastern slopes of Buell Mountain 




1916.] NATURAL B< CEN( BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



on June 18. Associated with this species were the following crane- 

 flies: Dicranomyia pubipennis, Limnobia indigena, Limnophila 

 niveitarsis, L. toxoneura, L. areolata, I., adusta, I., brevifurca, L. 

 rufibasis, L. munda, L.montana, L.lenta, L. emmelina, Ula (Injuns, 

 Rhaphidolabi8 (Rhapkidolabina) flaveola, Dolichopeza americana, 

 Tiptda senega, T. hermannia, T. macrolabis and T. valida. 



This interesting pallid species gave some trouble in assigning it 

 to this genus The general appearance of the fly is altogether thai 

 of Gonomyia, but the presence of the radial cross-vein, the very 

 elongate subcosta and the position of the tuberculate pits make it 

 more probable thai the presenl reference is the correcl one. In its 

 venation it departs widely from that of the genotype, E. stigmatica 

 < >sten Sacken < Eastern Nearctic), in the oblique, Gonomyia-Mke course 

 of vein U . in this respecl suggesting certain of the European 

 Empedae. These insects with the oblique l> certainly appear 

 differenl from stigmatica, and it' this difference were worthy of a name 

 il is tin- group thai would have to be separated off from stigmatica, 

 the genus Empeda being erected for the species with the short cell />'.• 

 and the normal, Erioptera-Vike course of vein /«' . This Gonomyia- 

 Erioptera group of species gets more complex with the accession of 

 new forms, and i1 seems probable thai the besl basis for a division 

 i- the position of the tuberculate pits, these being far oephalad in the 

 Gonomyia-iike forms and retreated far backward and Lying al Dearly 

 mid-length of the sclerite in the genera and subgenera related t<> 

 Erioptera. 



MOLOPHILUS I 



Molo] ' :, i~: British Entomology, p. 444 ' - 



Molophilus fultonensis sp n. 



Much larger and darker colored than M. pubipennis t<> which it i- 

 mosl closely related; antennas of the t imale much longer than in the 

 corresp ling sex of pubipennis. 



Male. Length, 3.5 l.l mm.; wing, 5.6 6.4 nun. 



Female. Length, 1.5 5 mm.; wing, 5.3 6 nun. 



\ i v similar to the smaller M. pubipi nnit Oaten Sacken, differing 

 inch larger and darker colored, especiall) in the male 

 the abdomen being dark brown instead of yellow; thorax withoul 

 the rich reddish tints of pubip< nnis; pronotum doI brighl yellow as in 

 pubipennis. Hypopygium with two chitinized hooks (Plate XXXI, 

 figs. 95, 96 . the curved hook directed abruptly ventrad, ending in a 

 long Blender point ; the -ma Hit straighl one is more dorsad in position, 

 minutely denticulated along the ventral face; proximo-lateral angle 




PR0< i i DINGS <n l m: \< \di.mv 01 |< >Ct., 



produced in t « > a Bharp point. Hypopygium quite as in pubipennis, 

 but the ventral honk is more blackened, chitinized, and the point is 

 longer, more slender: dorsal hook more -lender, uo1 so blackened, 

 the Bharp i >< >int on the proximo-lateral angle uo1 so long. 



The female ha- the antenna' niueh longer than in this -e\ of DttW- 



/x nnis, the flagellar segments dark brown, not yellowish, the terminal 

 segments darkened; flagellar segments elongate-oval instead of merely 

 oval: wings (Plate XXVII, fig. 37) with the anterior margin and 

 apex with a fringe of reddish brown t<> dark broWD hairs, not bright 

 yellow as in pubipt rw 



Habitat.- Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, cf, Mountain Lake. Fulton County, New York;, altitude 

 1,600 feet. .Inly 7. 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 5 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 15 cf 9 's; paratypes, 1 d\ Taylor, Cortland 

 County. New York, altitude 1,200 feet, July 20, 1916, 2 o*'s, near 

 Cincinnatus, < Ihenango County, New York, altitude 1,300 feet, 

 July 21, 1916. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



A large striking species, the largest yet discovered m the eastern 

 States. 



The types occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary 

 stream flowing into the lake. Tins is the same locality described 

 under Erioptera nyctops, but by this date (July 7) the stream had 

 disappeared and the mid-summer crane-fly fauna was quite different 

 from that found less than four weeks before. The principal species 

 recorded now were the following: Dicranomyia immodesta, D. 

 pubipennis, I). macateei, Elephantomyia ivestwoodi, Erioptera chryso- 

 coma. E. chlorophylla, E. armillaris, E. armata, E. caloptera, E. 

 stigmatica, Molophilus pubipennis, M. ursinus, Limnophila fusco- 

 varia, L. quadrata, Bittacomorpha jonesi, etc. 



Molophilus nova-caesariensis sp. n. 



Size small (wing under 3.2 mm.); coloration dark brownish black; 

 wings dusky with the fusion between Cu x and M 3 slight; hypopygium 

 of the male with the ventral appendages straight, slender, heavily 

 chitinized. 



Male- Length about 2.7 mm.; wing, 2.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi blackish. Antennas rather elongated, dark 

 brown, the flagellar segments cylindrical with an abundant long 

 pale pubescence. Head dark gray. 



Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish bloom; pleura dark brown- 




1916.] NATURAL & [EN( ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



ish Mark, the dorso-pleural membranes a little brighter. Halterea 

 short, dull yellow throughout, tin- knobs elongate. Legs with the 

 coxic brown, the trochanters yellowish brown; femora and tibise 

 dark In-own. the former a little brighter at the base; tarsi lighl brown, 

 the tips of the segments and all of the terminal two segments darker. 

 Wings with a dusky suffusion, the costal and stigma! regions a little 

 more suffused; veins dark brown. Venation I Plate XXVII, fig. 38): 

 firsl deflection of Rt elongate, oblique, no1 perpendicular as in wrsinus 

 (Plat.- XXVII, fig. 39) : fusion of M and Cu t slight, shorter than the 

 free portion of < " ; alon< . 



Abdomen dark brownish Mack with a long pair pubescence. 

 Bypopygium narrowed, the ventral appendage very long, slender, 

 acicular and almosl straight, heavily chitinized. 



Habitat. Eastern I 'nited States. 



Holotype, S, Ashland, Camden County, New Jersey, May 13, 

 L905. 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species occurred in the United State- National Museum 

 collection, bearing the label "M. ursinusf" in Coquillett's writing. 

 .1/. wrsinus Osten Sacken, probably the smallest crane-fly in the 

 United States wing of the male, 2.4 nun. . is the only species with 

 which it mighl be confused; the venation of the two species is quite 

 distinct, that of the new species being much more of the normal 

 Molophilus type. M. ursinus (Plate X.W II. fig. 39) has the upward 

 deflection of l> almosl perpendicular and in a line with the radial 

 cross-vein; basal deflection of Cu before the fork of M, the fusion of 

 ' and M being correspondingly extensive, longer than the tree 

 portion of Cv,\ alone; there is a clear, hyaline area running along the 

 anterior face of vein \l . this obliterating the bast ol 1/ ; I/, i 



Plate XXVII, fig. 38 bas the upward deflection ol /.' 

 elongate, oblique; basal deflection of Cu t aboul al the fork of W, the 

 fusion of Cu and M being very Blight, not more than one-half the 

 free portion of Cu\ alone; there is no hyaline obliterative mark along 

 vein M and t h<' base of U is di-t incl . 



EMPEDOMORPHA . n n 



Head with the front broad, the eyes widely separated. Rostrum 

 short. Palpi four-segmented, the segments subequal. Antenna' 

 16-segmented, the second segmenl not longer and only a little broader 

 than the third: flagellar segments oval with verticil- jusl below 

 mid-length; terminal segments smaller. Legs i lerately -tout, the 




508 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHB \< LDEM1 OF [Oct., 



enta with abundant Btrong hairs; tibia? without -pur-. Wing 

 (Plate XXVII, fig. i<>) with the Btigma enormously 

 enlarged so thai the costal and radial veins in thai field arc bulged 

 outward: stigma extending from the basal portion of cell A\ to the 

 end of vein R ( ; wing (of the female) with the Btigma Bmaller, the 

 cells Rt no1 bo wide and the cross-vein r consequently Bhorter and 

 more nearly straight. Sc moderately long, ending just before the 

 fork of Rs] Set far retreated, lying jusl beyond the origin of Rs; 

 Rs long, straight, in a line with R t ,,\ cross-vein r long, oblique, 

 somewhat twisted, inserted at the end of Rs or just beyond on 

 Rt+t about as long as Rt alone; JBi arcuated at its base; cell 

 Id Mi closed (sometimes open by the atrophy of cross-vein m, which, 

 when present, is usually weak); basal deflection of Cui at or just 

 before the fork of M; fusion of ( '". and .U 3 moderate, about one-half 

 of Cm alone or a little longer than the deflection of CW 



Genotype. — t Trimicra empedoides Alexander. (Mid-west era Ne- 

 arctic region.) 



Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander. 



.' Trimicra empedoides Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 44, 45 



(i9ie . 



This curious fly ranges from South Dakota to Texas and New 

 Mexico, an unrecorded station being Brownsville, Texas, May 3, 

 1904 (H. S. Barber), a 9 in the collection of the United States 

 National Museum. 



GONOMYIA Meigen. 

 Gonomyia Meigen; Systematische Beschreibung, vol. 1, p. 146 (1818). 



The numerous species of this genus may be divided into three 

 subgenera, (ionomyia, Gonomyella and Leiponeura, and it is the last- 

 named group that has caused so much confusion in the study of 

 crane-flies during the past few years, the species having been de- 

 scribed in a wide range of Limnobine and Antochine genera (Dicra- 

 nomyia, Atarba, Elliptera, Teucholabis, Thaumastoptera, etc.). 



Brunetti. in hi- exhaustive work on the "Diptera Nematocera of 

 British India," pp. 469, 470, enters into a long discussion as to 

 the homologies of the veins of those species of Gonomyia which have 

 but two branches of the sector reaching the wing-margin, i.e., the 

 genus Leiponeura Skuse. He presents the rather far-fetched 

 idea of the cell R 2 being unusually large, sessile and the vein R i+t 

 lacking so that cross-vein r-m connects M l+2 with R 3 . A study of a 

 series of the species of the genus show the impossibility of this inter- 

 pretation, R t+i being one of the most constant veins of the wing in 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



the Tipulidae. It is much more reasonable to figure ou1 the dis- 

 appearance of one of these branches by fusion to the wing-margin, 

 a condition found in many remote crane-fly tribes (Linmopbilini, 

 the Neotropical genus Psaronius Enderlein; Bexatomini, the genus 

 Hexatoma and the reduced form, Cladolipes, Palsearctic, etc.). In 

 the genus Gonomyia we may atari with form- possessing a deep cell 

 /,\ and the radial cross-vein present a- in the subgenus GonomyeUa 

 Alexander {slossona Alexander) through species with the cell a little 

 less deep [subcinerea group (Nearctic), Plate XXVI, fig. 33; affinis 

 Brunei ti < Iriental I et al.]; then to -till smaller forked species (novcbo- 

 racensis, Plate XXVI, fig. 30; aperta Brunetti) and finally to a group 

 of Bpecies thai have t he cell very t iny < sulphun lla group, Plate X XVI, 

 fig. 26; flavonotaia Edwards of the Seychelles [slands et al.), a single 

 step further in the fusion of Rt+* resulting in the obliteration of the 

 cell and the attainim-nt of the condition found in Leiponeura (Plate 

 XXVI, figs. 17 22 . With this fusing of the branches of /.'. there 

 occurs a simultaneous tendency for /.', to bend caudad toward the 

 wing-apex so thai in the species of L< iporu m-n these two branches of 

 the radial sector air very widely separated al the wing-margin. 

 It is a very easy matter i<> pick <>ut the Bpecies of this group merely 

 by this one tendency alone, a correlated character, however, being 

 the extremely narrowed, often ;t 1iii« *— t pointed, inner end of cell 

 /.-/ Mi due to the extreme shortening of the basal deflection of M .-.. 



Dr. Bergroth has expressed hi- belief that although Gorton 

 manca Osten Sac ken i- a true, though aberranl , member of the genus, 

 the other species thai have been described in various Antochine 

 ra, such a- Atnrhn. Elliptera, Leiponeura, etc.. are quite distincl 

 from manca and really belong to the tribe Antochini. The -. 

 of Leiponeura, a- they occur in the United States alone and without 

 taking into consideration the resl of the world, show a curious and 

 almost complete transition into the sulphurella group of G\ 



I would point out the exceedingly long verticils of the flagellar 

 segments ol the male antenna thai are found nol onl) in the Bpecies 

 of Leiponeura {manca, pleuralis et al.), hut also in <■ >///- 



phurella, another proof of the close relationship existing, since this 

 conditi f the antennas elsewhere in the family i- rare or lacking. 



Occasionally a crane-fly society is found in which the dominanl 

 element consists of species of this genus. Such i M>ci< ty was found 

 in the Shaul wood- on the ea-t l.ank of Nowadaj < astle 



< re. k south of the village of Indian < lastle, Herkimer ( !ounty, t^ew 

 York, June 13, 1915, and may be described sociation. 




510 PRO< i i QIM6B OF PHB \< \i'i Ml 0] [Oct., 



The woods arc quite open, in places with outcroppinga of a transi- 

 tional character, of Trenton limestones and Qtica shales and with a 

 western exposure. The foresl cover consists of the dominant 

 arbor-vitae, Thuja occidentalis, wit 1 1 an admixture of Juglans cinerea, 

 Betula lutea, Ulmus americana, U. fulva, Tilia americana, Fraxinus 

 icana and a few others. 'The underbrush was of yew, Taxua 

 canadensis, Ribes Cynosbati and Hamamelis virginiana. The under- 

 growth from which the crane-flies were swepl consisted of three 

 dominant plants, early meadow-rue, Thalictrum dioicum } mandrake) 

 Podophyllum peliatum, and ground ivy, Nepeta hederacea, with fewer 

 representatives of other species, Ranunculus abortivus, R. urn's, 

 :<iria nscn. and an abundance of bladder-fern, Cystopteris bulb- 

 ln places rank growths of Osmunda cinnamomea, Podophyllum, 

 Solidago, Lysimachia Nummularia, bound into dense tangles by 

 liana-. Menispermum canadense and Psedera quinque-folia. Here 

 occurred Gonomyia mathesoni, Rhabdomastix {Sacandaga) flava and 

 yptera venusta. Along the base of the hill is a broad ditch, now 

 quite dry, bu1 supporting such a flora as Cystopteris, Lysimachia 

 Nummularia, Tussilago Farfara, etc. It is very probable that a 

 certain elemenl of the crane-fly fauna emerged from this ditch. The 

 similarity between the crane-fly fauna of this open woods and that 

 of Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, Fulton County, New York, 

 is very close (Gonomyia alexanderi, G. cognatella, G. mathesoni, 

 Rhabdomastix flava, etc. , 



The crane-fly fauna of this association is as follows: 



Dicranomyia liberta, sev.; Geranonnjia canadensis, rare; Antocha 

 saxicola, few; Erioptera venusta, comm.j E. armata, comm.; Molo- 

 philus pubipennis, comm.; Gonomyia alexanderi, uncomm.; G. 

 sulphurella, dom.; G. mathesoni, dom.; G. cogualrlla and G. florens, 

 loc. abund.; G. subcinerea, uneoimn.; Hhabdomasli.v (Sacandaga) 

 flava, uncomm. ; Adelphomyia minuta, uncomm.; Limnophila rufibasis, 

 comm.; Tipula caloptera, rare, and T. macrolabis, rare. 



Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, New York (mentioned 

 above), is rather remarkable in its Gonomyia fauna, no less than 

 eighl species having been taken here ((?. alexanderi, G. sacandaga, 

 G. manca, G. sulphurella, G. cognatella, <;. mathesoni, G. noveboracensis 

 and '<■ subcinerea), a- well as the closely related genu-. Rhabdomastix 

 Sacandaga) flava Alexander. The floral condition- obtaining here 

 have been discussed by 1 he author in an earlier paper.'' 



* Entomological News, vol. 23, p. 72 L912 - 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



.1 Key to the Xi arctic Spt cU s of Gonomyia. 



1. Two branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin 



(Subgenus Leiponeura Skuse. 2 

 Three branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin 7 



2. Outer deflection of M absent, the cell tsi M being open 



< Miter deflection of M . preseni , the cell 1st Mi being closed 1 



3. Costa conspicuously china-white; Legs banded with white: male 



hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage triangular, 

 the caudal angle a prominent elongate spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage a flattened blade whose inner caudal margin is 

 armed with al><>ut five OT six acute chitinized appressed teeth, 

 of which the innermosl i- the largest. Eastern United 

 State-, i <ih xand< ri Johnson. 



Costa not conspicuously china-white; legs withoul white hand-: 

 male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage broadly 

 triangular, 'he caudal angle a -hurt spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage a flattened blade bearing uear it- dorsal inner side 

 :i sharp chitinized point: no serrations along the lobe. 

 Western 1 rnited States. I ciru rea 1 toane. 



4. Pleural -tripe- conspicuous; stigma distind 5 

 Pleura] Btripes indistind or feebly indicated; stigma Lacking or 



very taint 6 



5. Legs witli the femora tipped with dark brown; costal margin of 



the wings conspicuously light yellow, the stigma pale brown. 



Northeastern United States.) sacandaga Alexander. 



Legs with the femora indistinctly darkened at the tip; costal 



margin of the wings not yellow, the stigma dark In-own. 



Southeastern United State- mid southward.) 



i>l< limits Williston. 



6. Pleura plumbeous with a pale yellow stripe; male hypopygium 



with the pleural appendage armed with :i strongly curved 

 hook. (Southeastern United States and southward.) 



inn,- Uexander. 



Pleura unstriped, pale; male hypopygium with the pleural 



appendage very elongate, -lender, decussate in a position of 



rest, the inner \-.ir,- :i \ the apex with a strong bristle. Eastern 



United Stati mam a ' Isten Sacken. 



7. Radial cross-vein preseni subgenus < l "m>mii< lln Alexander 



Southeastern tinted States and southward.) 



• \l- xander. 

 Eladial cross-vein lacking subgenus! M n 8 



8. Basal deflection of Cu far before the fork of 1/ : subcosta Long, 



ending beyond the origin of R '•• 



Basal deflection of Cu at or beyond 'he fork of M . bud< 

 short, ending opposite or far before the origin o 11 



'.». Wings clear. (Northeastern United - 



mall Uexander. 



WingG -potted 10 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF PHE U IDEM1 OF Oct., 



10. Pleura unstriped; Sc rather short, extending to about one-fourth 



the Length of the Bector; no dark blotch a1 the tip of >v,: 

 apices of cells R and /.' largely darkened. (Eastern United 

 States.) blanda Osten Sacken. 



Pleura striped with brown; Sc long, ending a1 aboul half the 

 Length of the sector; a dark blotch at the tip of Scij apices of 

 cells Ri and R. only slightly dark. mi. '.I. (Western United 

 States. ! - californica Alexander. 



11. Antennae orange al the base, the flagellum dark 12 

 Antenna black throughoul • •> 



12. Cell tsi Mi closed; femora with a dark brown subterminal 



annulus. (Eastern United States.) sulphurella I >sten Sacken. 

 Cell tsl flfjopen; femora without a darker subterminal annulus...l3 



13. Sc short ending before t he origin of Rs, I his distance being aboul 



equal to the vein R*. (Western United States*) 



flavibasis Alexander. 

 Sc longer, ending opposite, or jusl before, the origin of Rs 1 I 



14. Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite -tout, 



with numerous about fifteen) slender hairs; ventral append- 

 age simple, .-tout, tipped by a blunt black spine; second 

 appendage a powerful, curved, subchitinized arm direct.'.! 



proximad. Northeastern United States.) florens Alexander. 



Mai.' hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite slender, 

 with a few (about ten) stout hairs; ventral appendage bifid, 

 the arm with a Long slender black spine; second appendage a 

 slender pale arm that is almost straight, with two hairs at 

 the tip. (Eastern United States.) cognatella Osten Sacken. 



15. Wings with .-lender veins, clouded with a milky suffusion; Rs 



very long and straight. I Northwestern North America.) 



galactoptera Bergroth. 

 Wings with stouter veins, pale gray to hyaline; Rs shorter, more 



arcuated Ita-ally .. L6 



10. Subcosta shorl . ending before the origin of Rs, the distance about 

 equal to the r-m cross-vein; vein R 2 oblique, a little Longer 

 than the cross-vein r-m; male hypopygium with the gona- 

 pophyses and penis-guard fused into a large, prominent, 



cylindrical tube. (Northeastern United St at esj 



noveboracensis Alexander. 



Subcosta Longer, ending about opposite the origin of Rs', vein Ri 



longer, the cell Rt being larger; male hypopygium with the 



gonapophyses and penis-guard not fused into a cylindrical 



tllbe ' .17 



17. Wings long and slender with a strong grayish brown suffusion; 

 habere- elongated; male hypopygium with the ventral pleural 

 appendage very elongate, slender, sligtrl Ly expanded toward t he 

 tip. (Eastern Rocky Mountain region.) filicauda Alexander. 

 Wings broader, not strongly tinged with grayish; halteres -horter 

 male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage not 

 strikingly elongated 18 




1916.] NATURAL S< CEN< BS 0] PHILADELPHIA. 513 



18. Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage armed 



with a chil inized hook 19 



Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage without a 



hook, although with two powerful bristles at the tip 20 



19. Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage two lobed, the 



caudal arm a powerful chitinized spine; ventral arm with a 

 -harp, chitinized, feebly curved spine. Eastern United 

 State-, i subdnerea Osten Sacken. 



Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage irregular, not two 

 lohed. the outer face Heal' the apex with a strong, curved, 

 chitinized hook. Extra-limital; < ruatemala.) 



oequalis Alexander. 



20. Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage prominent, 



directed caudad, narrowed at the base, the apex a slight 

 chitinized tooth directed proximad. i Western United Stati 



virgata 1 >oane. 

 Male hypopygium not as described 21 



21. Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage a double, dark- 



COlored lobe, the inner arm -tout-cylindrical: the outer arm 

 Blender, curved, bearing at the tip two divergent hairs; penis- 

 guard subtended by two divergent chitinized arm- that are 

 acute at their tip-. (Extra-limital; Guatemala.) 



unicolor Alexander. 



Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage pale, not 



chitinized; penis-guard long and pale, the apex bifid by a 



deep U-shaped notch; the divergent subtending arm- are 



-lender, the ventral margin with .-i few -harp, appressed teeth. 



Extra-limital; Mexii cicana Alexander. 



Subgenus 1 l. if' >\l i i: \ - 



Tin ( "m, r< " Group. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura' alexanderi Joni 



EUiptera alexanderi Johnson; Psyche, vol. 19, p. '■'>. 1 11/ 6 1912 



This handsome little fly i~ locally common, it- known distribu- 

 tion over the eastern United States is as follows: 



Veic )'<<//,, Fulton County, sport [stand, Sacandaga River, June 

 1 1. 191 I. 10 August 24, L910 Uexander), the type-locality; Herkimer 

 County, Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 Mexandi 



Vorth Co olina, Buncombe County, Black .Mountain-. June p; 

 p.m.' Beutenmulli 



\ female specimen from Piano, Collin County, Texas, in August 

 I S. Tucker , probablj belongs here, but may possibly represent 

 0. helophila Alexander. Tin- i- also the species mentioned by 

 Osten Sacken in the Monographs, part 1, p. I7'.». without locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate \\\ I. fig. 17. 




514 PRO* i BDING8 OF i BE M \m.\n OF (< >d ., 



The male hypopygium is described below, the characters being 

 largely takeo from paratypic material in my collection. Hypopygium 

 (Plate XXIX, figs. 59, 61) with the pleurites rather prominent, 

 cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage (v) elongate, the outei angle 

 produced caudad as a rather broad flattened blade thai is slightly 

 chitinized at the tip; inner caudal margin of the appendage with 

 al>out li\ e or six acute chil inized appressed teeth, of which the inner- 

 mosl is the largest; a fleshy lobe on the ventral side of the outer 

 blade; middle pleural appendage lacking (possibly of a caducous 

 nature I : dorsal pleural appendage (<i) lying on t he inner caudal angle 

 of the pleurite, triangular in outline, the caudal angle produced 

 caudad as an elongate spine thai is heavily chitinized apicaUy, the 

 inner angle a rounded lobe with numerous setigerous tubercles. 



The two Nearctic species, alexanderi and cinerea, have been dis- 

 tinguished by the key given before. There is a third species, G. 

 helophila Alexander/that is even closer to alexanderi. Its known 

 range is extra-limit al (Lesser Antilles and British Guiana to Peru), 

 but it may range into our southern limits. The two species may be 

 separated as follow-: 



1. Dorsal pleural appendage triangular, the caudal angle a prominent 

 -pine thai is heavily chitinized apically: middle pleural 

 appendage apparently lacking; ventral pleural appendage 

 with a broad flattened blade, the inner caudal margin with 

 aboul five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the 

 innermosl is the largest (Plate XXIX, fig. 59). (Nearctic.) 



ul< xtitnh ■■/•/ .Johnson. 

 I >orsal pleural appendage a fleshy lobe hearing many hairs; middle 

 pleural appendage a slender subsinuous spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage with the apex flattened, smooth, chitinized, 

 bilobed; ventral margin of the appendage with two prominent 

 teeth whose margins are minutely denticulate. (Plate XXIX, 

 fig. 60). (Neotropical.) helophila Alexander. 



Gonomyia 'Leiponeura) cinerea Doane 



■!,, mi Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, 

 vol. 8, pp. L82, is:;, PI. 7, fig. 2 (1910). 



The known range of this species is as follows: 

 Washington, Whitman County, Pullman, August 10, 1898 (Piper); 

 the type-locality. 



California, Humboldl County, Blue Lake, June 20-27, 1907 

 Bradley). 

 The wing is shown on Plate XXVI. fig. 18. 



tmologiccd News, vol. 27, pp. 343-346, figs. 1, 3 (1916). 




l'.'lli. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



The male has never been described, and this specimen is made the 

 allotype. 



Allotype, cT.- — Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antenna with 

 the basal segments enlarged, the second segmenl as large as or 

 larger than the first; flagellar segments small, brown. Eead pale 

 with a broad dark brown mark on the vertex sending a small median 

 tongue backward onto the occiput. 



Pronotal scutum dark medially. Mesonotal praescutum lighl 

 brown with three dark brown stripes, the median one splil by a 

 narrow vitta of the ground-color; scutum with the lobes dark brown. 

 Pleura pale yellow, striped with brown; a very shorl brown dorsal 

 stripe extending from the pronotum back to above the fore coxa; 

 second stripe beginning a1 the fore coxa extending caudad to the base 

 of the halter; ventral stripe broadest, including the sterna and the 

 bases of the middle and bind coxae; the pale -tripe enclosed broad, 

 extending to the abdomen. Balteres pale. Legs with the coxae 

 pale; trochanters darker; remainder of the legs broken. W 

 hyaline or nearly so, the veins brown; basal deflection of A\ .. r-m 

 and the basal deflection of Cu dark brown; a pale brownish graj 

 oval stigma. Venation Plate XXVI, fig. 18 with Rs short, straight, 

 oblique, a little longer than the r-rn cross-vein; basal deflection of 

 il the fork of M. 



Male hypopygium Plate XXIX, fig. 62) with the pleurites rather 

 prominent, cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage elongate, 



flattened, Made-like, the apex chitinized; a rounded lobe on the inner 

 ventral side jusl before the apex; .-it the base on the inner dorsal 

 side, a sharp, acute, chitinized point; middle appendage a slender, 

 slightly curved pale hook, dincted inward, the apex slightly 

 chitinized; dorsal pleural appendagi I a subtriangular lobe, the 

 caudal angle produced caudad as a shorl spine, heavily chitinized 

 at the apex, the inner angle prominent, produced slightly cephalad, 

 with numerous 9etigerous punctures. 



Allotype m the collection of < ornell University. 



The type i- grayish, this color being produced bj a pruinosit) that 

 i- not shown by the alcoholic allotype. 



Th> I'l' uralis Group. 



Oonomyia Leiponeura saoandaga Alexander. 



indaga Alexander; Proceedings <>i The Vcadetw 

 rices of Philadelphia, pp. 687, 588, I'l. 27, fig. 25 (wing ; I'l. 26, fig 21 

 hypopygium 191 I , 



This species \& -till known only from the type Station where it is 



common. 




516 PBO< ii DINGS OF i in: \- \i»i \n 01 



Veto )'<>rk, Fulton County, Sporl [sland in the Sacandaga River, 

 June 11. l'.'l 1. to Augusl 24, L910; the type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. L9. 



The hypopygium having been described and figured in the firsi 

 part of this series is not repeated here. 



Gonomyia (.Leiponeura^ pleuralis WUliston. 



ba pleuralis Williston; Transactions of the Entomological Society of 

 London, p. 289, PL LO, fig. 61 1896 . 



This is a tropical species thai reaches our southern limit, its range 

 being as follow-: 



Bermuda, apparently common (Jones). 



orgia, Charlton County, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20, 1912 

 (Brad 



Cuba, Baracoa, September, 1901 (Busck). 



Porto Rico, Aguadilla, January, 1899 (Busck). 

 Vincent II. II. Smith); the type-locality. 



British Guiana, Bartica, December 9, 1912, to February 26, 1913; 

 Mallali, March 14, 1913 (Parish). 



The wing i- shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 20. 



The male hypopygium has been described and figured by the 

 author in another paper. 7 



The Manca Group. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura> puer Alexander. 



myia puer Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National 

 Museum, vol. It, p. 506, PI. 66, fig. 11 (1913 



This is likewise a tropical species that ranges within our limits, 



it- northern distribution being a little more extensive than the last. 



' olina, Georgetown County. South Island. August 19, 



1915 Alexander); Charleston County, McClellanville, August 8, 



1915 (Alexander). 



i ,, orgia, ( harlton County, < Ikefinokee Swamp, June 20 to 25, 1912 



(Bradle- 



Florida, Dade County. Miami, December 19, 1912 (Knab). 



nto Domingo, San Francisco Mountain-. August, September, 



L905 (Busck); the- type-locality. 



f/,i, i in m mi, Bartica, January 3, 1913, to January 10, 1913 



'Tar. 



The wing i- shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 21. 



2 pp. U8 120; figs. 3, I L912 , 




1916.] NATURAL S< 11. \< ES 01 PHILADELPHIA. 517 



The male hypopygium Plate XXIX, fig. 63) with the pleurites 

 very elongated, broader at the base, tapering to the obliquely trun- 

 cated apex which bears on the inner side a single appendage shaped 

 as a curved hook, benl proximad, dorsad and finally cephalad, the 

 apex acute and strongly chitinized. Anal tube broad, pale, bifid 

 by a deep median notch, the adjacenl lobes rounded. Penis-guard 

 (p.gd.) very elongate, -lender, tapering gradually to the acute apex, 

 at the base on the ventral side with an oval fleshy lobe covered 

 with setigerou- punctures mi the ventral face. 



Gonomyia Leiponeura manca < >=ten Sacken. 



I >sten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North 

 America, part 1, pp. 17s, lT'.i L869 , 



A rather wide-ranging species throughout the eastern United 



Stata-; 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, August 26, L916 

 Alexandi 



New Jersey, Essex County, South Orange, June 30, L868 (Osten 

 Sacken : the t\ pe-locality. 



Maryland, Montgomery County, Foresl '■leu. June 1, I'd:; 

 [Knab : Plummers [sland, Augusl 18, 1912 (Viereck). 



District <>i ( 'olumbia, Washington < loquillel i 's types of Dicranon 



Curi n ' ml . 



Virginia, Fairfax County, Great Falls, Augusi 23, 1908 Knab ; 



Difficull Run, July 25, I'd") McAtee and Alexander); Glencarlyn, 



28 (Ban 



North Carolina, Jones County, Pollocksville, July 8, 1915 



cander ; Onslow County, Camp Perry, Julj 9, I'M", Uexander); 



Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 24, L912 [Beutenmuller . 



South Carolina, Charleston County, McClellanville, Augusi 

 L915 Alexander). 

 Georgia, Decatur County, Bainbridge, September, October, 1910 



. 

 The wing is shown on Plate \\\ I. fig. 22. 

 The male bypopj gium i- of I he tj pe of G. />>" r Alexander. <;. ,,,, \ 

 Alexander ei al. It i--hnwn.ui Plate XXIX, figs. 64, 65; the pleu- 

 rites ate exceedingly elongated, slender, tapering t<> the narrow apex, 



the outer lace with i n : 1 1 1 \ long hairs, "li the inner lace at the apex 



with a strong bristle; pleurites in a position ><i rest, decussate. Penis- 

 guard /'..;-/. long and -lender, acute, tap. mi- t., an acute point, 



subtended on either side l>y a flattened Mad.-, ending in a triangular 

 black honk that i- Lent slightly dorsad al the apex. 




518 PROCEEDINGS 01 ["HE ICADEM1 OF [Oct., 



Bubgenui <a »N( IMYEL1 \ Alexander. 

 Gonomyia Gonomyella^ slossonae Alexander. 



lomyia slossona Alexander; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, pp. 588, 589, PL 27, fig. 26 L91 l . 



A t r» »| »i<;i 1 Bpecies thai ranges into the southeastern United States: 



S Uh Carolina, Georgetown < * >un t \ . South Island. Augusl !'.», 

 L915 (Alexand 



Florida, Seminole County, Sanford, May 7. L908 (M. < \ Van- 

 Duz'r : Dade County, Biscayne Bay (A. T. Slosson); the type- 

 locality. 



Panama, Paraiso, January 29, L911 (Busck). 



• nua i a '\i IMY1 \ Mi i| 



The Blanda Group. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) mathesoni Alexander. 



myia mathesoni Alexander: Entomological News, vol. 26, pp. 170-17'J, 

 figs, l -:; L915 . 



A species of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada: 

 Nova Scotia, Truro, July 7 to 26, 1913 (Matheson). 

 New York, Fulton County, Sarandaga Park, June 12 to 16, 1914 

 sander), tin- type-locality: Herkimer County, Indian Castle, 

 June L3, I'M.", (Alexander) : Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 

 Alexander I ; Tompkins ( lounty, Ithaca, August 24, 1912 (Alexander). 

 The wing is shown on Plate X.W'I. fig. 23. 



The'hypopyghnn of the male has been described and figured in the 

 paper cited above. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) blanda Osten Sacken. 



; blanda Oaten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231 I L859). 



This handsome fly ranges over the eastern United States: 



\'< //• Hampshire, Rockingham County, Hampton, July 15, 1907 

 S. A. Shaw). 



Vermont, Chittenden County, Burlington, June 23, 1906 (Johnson). 



Connecticut . New Haven County, East Paver, July 16 to 20, 1910 

 (El; 



New Yorl,\ Albany County, Albany, June 26, 1912 (D. B. Young); 

 Herkimer ' lounty, Trenton Falls, (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; 

 Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 (Alexander); Tompkins 

 mty, Ithaca, July 19, 1912 (Alexander). 



District of Columbia, Washington (( teten Sacken); the type-locality. 



Virginia, Fairfax County. Falls Church, June 7, 1914 (Shannon). 



South Carolina (in the Berlin Museum). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Georgia, Rabun County, ( Jlayton, altitude 2,000 feet, May 18, 1911 

 (Bradley). 



Michigan, Walnut Lake, June 26 to 28, L907 Needham). 



Colorado, Clear Creek County. June 27, L915 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI. fig. 24. 



The male hypopygium I Plate XXIX. figs. 68, 69 with the pleurites 

 stout, the ouier angle produced caudad into a long, fleshy, finger-like 

 lobe, blunt at the apex, provided with numerous tubercles; ventral 

 pleural appendage v) large, prominent, being chitinized and bifid 

 the caudal or outer arm longer, slender, the diameter uniform; the 

 apex subacute; cephalic or inner arm shorter, expanded distally into 

 a broad, truncated apex: dorsal pleural appendage d) asubl riangular 

 fleshy lobe whose inner angle is produced into a prominent chitinized 

 curved horn; the cephalic inner margin with about Bix hair-bearing 

 tubercles. Ninth tergite with the caudal margin transversely 

 concave, not notched medially. Penis-guard very slender, 



Gonomyia Gonomyia californica Alexander. 



Gone i Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. I s . pp. 324, 



325 1916 .' 



This is the western representative of the blanda group: 



British Columbia, Peachland, Ma\ 19, 1912. 



California, Humboldt County. Blue Lake, June '-'it to 27, L907 

 he type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 25. 



The male hypopygium i Plate XXIX. ti--. f'ii. 67) with the pleurites 

 -tout, outer angle produced caudad int.. n slender, fleshy lobe, 

 pointed at the apex and sparsely provided with setigerous tubercles; 

 ventral pleural appendage a two-armed chitinized rod whose 

 outer ventral .inn is stout basally, narrowed toward the apex which is 

 again expanded into a blunt tip: the inner arm bends dorsad, slender, 

 tapering into an acute blackened apex; dorsal pleural appendage 

 a triangular fleshy lobe provided with long, coarse hairs. Ninth 

 ite with a deep, narrow, median notch the lateral angles rounded. 

 Penis-guard i>->.i'l. prominent, the sides subparallel, the apical half 

 on t he dorsal surface with numerous hairs, the apex produced ventro- 

 caudad into a prominent median lobule. 



Tin Sulphun Ha Group. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia sulphurelli 



A 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p 230 ! 



A wide-ranging Bpecies throughout eastern North America: 




520 PRO< i i DINGS "i i in \< mm \n 01 [» )( 'l-> 



terio, Fori Erie, May 30, 1911 (M. C. Van Duzee); Poinl au 

 Barile, Georgian Bay, July 11. L91 1 R. I'.. Hughes . 



\ a .s'a>//</. Truro, July 7 to Augusl L6, I'M:; I Matheson). 



Maine, Oxford County, Fryeburg, September 5, I'M:; (Alexander). 



Vermont, Windsor County, Norwich, July 8, L908 (Johnson). 



Hcut, Middlesex County, Middletown, June 17. L909 (John- 

 son : New Haven County, Easl River, July 11, 1910 (Elj 1. 



Hhod* Island, Washington County, Kingston, September 23, 1907 

 (Johnson). 



Veto )'"/•/,-. Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, .lime II, 1914, in 



Angus! 24, 1910 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Trenton Falls 



11 Sacken), the type-locality; Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 



Uexander ; Tompkins County, Ithaca, May 13 to August 24, L912 



cander ; Westchester County, Tarrytown, June 9, 1914 (Frost); 



Nassau County, Sea ('lilt', August (Banks). 



Pennsylvania, Luzerne Count}', Hazleton, Augusl 30, 1910 (Dietz). 



New Jersey, Cumberland County, Shiloh, June 19, 1915 (Alex- 

 ander) . 



Maryland, Prince George County, Hyattsville, August 2, 1908 

 (Knab). 



District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; 

 .May 15. L909 (Knab). 



Virginia, Alexandria County, Rosslyn, May 11, 1913 (Knab); 

 Fairfax ( lounty, Dead Run, May 21, 1914 (Shannon); Difficult Run, 

 July 25, 1915 McAtee and Alexander) ; (jlencarlyn, June 28 (Banks). 



North Carolina, Onslow County, Camp Perry, July 9, 1915 

 Alexander). 



Georgia. Rabun County, Clayton. May 20, 1911 (Bradley). 



Louisiana, I >eSoto County, Logansport, March 24, 1908 (Tucker). 



Texas, Collin County, Piano, May, 1907 (Tucker). 



The wing is 3hown on Plate XXVI, fig. 2G. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig. 70) with the pleurites 

 elongate, the outer angle produced proximad, dorsad and eaudad 

 very elongate, slender, irregularly curved and feebly chitinized 

 hook which tapers gradually to an acute point ; dorsal pleural appen- 

 dage '/ a cylindrical fleshy lobe, narrowed toward the apex which 

 terminates in a bristle; ventral pleural appendage (v) bifid, the 

 dorsal arm short, densely provided with short hair- on the inner face; 

 ventral arm very long, slightly curved, blade-like, the tip subacute, 

 the arm directed proximad, decussate with its mate of the opposite 

 side. Penis-guard -tout, fleshy, near the apex on the ventral sur- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



face, a chitinized, median appendage directed caudad and slightly 

 ventrad, at the acute apex turned strongly dorsad. 



The Cogmitclbi (Iron p. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia) flavibasis Al e xa nd er. 



V cander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 18, pp. 317-319 

 (1916 . 



A western species that is still known only from the type-locality, 

 Monterey County, California, July 18, 1896. 



The wing is shown on Piute XXVI, fig. 27 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX. figs. 76 7s with the pleurites 

 long and slender, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a flattened, 

 fleshy lobe that bears many hairs on the dorsal face; firsl pleural 

 appendage very long, flattened, the apex bent, the appendage with 

 many long, prominenl hairs; second appendage complex, consisting 

 of a chitinized book thai is slightly bent; underneal h the base of this 

 hook is a fleshy lobe with several shorl bristles od the outer I 

 including two powerful bristles at the apex; above the base of the 

 hook is a slender, subchitinized rod thai is darkened a1 t be tip. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia^ florens Alexander. 



Uexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. I s . pp. 316, '-'>\1 

 L916 



A fly of cold Canadian conditions in the northeastern United 



Maine, Penobscol County, Orono, July 12, 1913 (Alexander). 



Sfew York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June I s . 1916 (Alexan- 

 der : Gloversville, June 22, 1916 Alexander); Herkimer County, 

 [ndian Castle, June 9 to L3, 1915 (Alexander), the type-locality j 

 Tompkins County, McLean, June 5 1916 (Alexander . 



The \s iiiLi is diown on Plate XX\ I. fig. 28. 



The male bypopygium (Plate XXIX. fig. 71 with the pleurites 

 very shorl and stout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad into a 

 blunl fleshy lobe whose inner margin U fringed with numerous long 

 hairs; a shorl blunt, fleshy knob ■/■ a1 the base of this lobe, provided 

 with five long hairs on the margin; firsl pleural appendaj rider, 



originating jus! below the knob (fc), directed proximad, the base 

 enlarged with two or three stoul hairs, the tip Blightly bifid, the 

 caudal arm with two bristles, the cephalic arm with one bristle; a 

 ,• bristle ju-t before the tip on the inner or cephalic -i<l<': second 

 pleural appendage .' a powerful, chitinized hook, slightly curved, 

 directed proximad, benl strong!} cephaiad toward the apex; third 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF 1111: LCADEM1 OF [Oct.,. 



appendage ■•' a Blender, fleshy rod, beyond the Blightly enlarged 

 base benl strongly dorsad so thai it lies above the second appendage, 

 directed caudad .-it the tip which is capped by a short, blunt, chitinized 

 spine. Ninth tergite Bhort, broad, the caudal margin transverse. 

 Ninth sternite with a prominenl mediae knob on the caudal margin, 

 provided with numerous setigerous tubercles. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia^ cognatella Oaten Baoken. 



myia cognateUa Oaten Sacken; Proceedings of The A.cademy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 230 (1859). 



\ more southern species than the last, their ranges overlapping 

 in New York State: 



Connecticut, New Haven County, East River, July 6, 1910 (Ely). 



New York, Fulton County, Sport Island. Sacandaga River, June 

 18, 1911, to Augusl 26. 1916 (Alexander); Eerkimer County, Indian 

 ( Jastle, June 10 to 13, 1915 (Alexander). 



Maryland, Montgomery ( )ounty, Cabin John Bridge, May 16, 1909 

 (Knab)j Plummers Island, May 24, 1911 (McAtee). 



District of < 'uhimhid, Washington (Osten Sacken); the type-locality. 



Virginia, Fairfax County, Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee 

 and Alexandi 



North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, July 16, 

 1912 (Beutenmuller). 



The wing is B hown on Plate XXVI, fig. 29. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs. 73-75) with the pleurites 

 very short and -tout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad as a 

 slender, finger-like lobe, fimbriate with eight or nine long stout hairs 

 on the dorsal inner edge; at the base of the lobe a small, slender, 

 cylindrical knob </.) with three long hairs at the apex; ventrad of 

 this finger-like angle of the pleurite is an elongate, very slender, pale 

 appendage - : directed caudad and slightly ventrad and proximad, 

 at t he apex with two long slender hairs; pleural appendage (S) directed 

 ventrad on it- basal portion, soon bent directly upon itself, dorsad, 

 the tip caudad; the appendage is pale, chitinized, slender, bifid, the 

 lateral arm with the apex somewhal twisted, the proximal arm a 

 -lender, pale stylet directed strongly proximad, at the apex with an 

 elongate, -lender, black, chitinized spine. Proximad of the base 

 of the knob /, is a slender appendage with a prominent hair at the 

 apex and two slightly -mailer subterminal hair-. 




1916.] NATURAL 8< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



The Galactoptera Group. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia^ galactoptera H-Tsroth. 



Gonomyia galactoptera Bergroth; Wiener Entomologische Zeitung, vol. 7, 



]). 196 (1888). 



Thi- fly is -till known only from the type-locality, Sitka, Alaska. 

 It is the only New World species of this genus thai 1 havenol -een. 



The Noveboracensis Group. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia* noveboracensis Alexander. 



eboracensis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. I s . pp. 

 319, 320 L916 - 



A fly of local distribution in the northeastern United Stat< 



New York, Fulton County, sport [sland, Sacandaga River, June 

 11, 1011 (Alexander), the type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 30. 



The male hypopygkim i Plate XXX, figs. 79, 80) with the pleuritea 

 prominent, elongate, with the dorsal inner edge with a prominenl 

 tubercle bearing several hair-, ventral inner edge with a row of large 

 setigerous tubercles; pleurites bearing three small appendagt 

 small inner dorsal cylindrical appendage (a) directed cephalad, 

 slightly enlarged basally, a1 the apex bearing three or tour prominenl 

 hair-; a dorsal ;ipiral appendage (6) directed proximad, flattened, 

 enlarged at the apex which bears a row of delicate hairs; a -lender, 

 subchitinized ventral apical appendage (c) directed proximad, 

 slightly toothed at the tip and on the lower side ju-t before the tip. 

 ( ronapophyses and the penis-guard (Plate XXX, fig. 80 fused into a 

 very large, prominent, cylindrical tube armed with chitinized horns 

 and flesh} lobes; dorsal surface of the tube with two subpendulous 

 fleshy lobes, approximated on the median line, densely provided with 

 short, pale hairs; horn- of the cylinder directed caudad and slightly 

 ventrad; outermosi horn- (a) very broad a1 the base, tapering to the 



acute apex which is curved proximad; the next inner p:iir (6) slender, 



chitinized, bifid at the apex; innermost pair (c) Longest, slender, 

 slightly twisted, nam. wed toward the apex. Ninth tergite with a 

 broad, rounded median concavity. Ninth sternite with a broad 

 \'-dia|»ed median notch, the adjacent angles produced caudo-laterad 

 fleshy lobes provided with numerous setigerous punctun 



Tin Subciru a a Group. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia ftlicauda U erandw . 



imologist, vol. t s . pi 

 1918 

 -•ill known only from the typedoealit v. Webster, near Platte 



Cafion, Colorado, altitude 9,500 f< isl 24 to 26, 1915 (Oslar), 




■V21 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CADEM1 <>!•' [Oct., 



and the base of Haden Peak, < 'olorado, alt it lulc 12,000 feet, August 

 in. L915 Oslar . 



Tin' wing i- shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 31. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXV, I'm-. 81, 82) with the pit mi rites 

 moderately elongated, the dorsal angle produced caudad ami slightly 

 dorsad as an elongated fleshy lobe that i- sparsely hairy, the hairs 



on the dorsal face strong, those on the inner tare weal;: vent ra! pleural 

 appendage very long, slender, beyond the base slightly expanded, 

 the apieal portion slender, slightly expanded toward the tip. dusky 

 in color and provided with an abundance of long, delicate hairs; 

 dorsal pleural appendage (d) a short, fleshy lobe whose caudal margin 

 i- produced into a powerful, curved, heavily chitinized hook, directed 

 inward and dorsad: at the tip of the fleshy portion of the lobe are 

 t wo -tout hail'- and a group of about eight smaller ones. Penis-guard 

 pale in color, simple, slender, from an enlarged base, the apex split 

 by a deep rounded notch. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia subcinerea Oaten Sacken. 



Gonomyia subcinerea Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231 (1859). 



This i- apparently the commonest and most widely distributed 

 species of the genus. It seems to be dimorphic or else there arc two 

 very closely allied forms that often occur together, one of which is 

 sulphur-yellow and brown as described for this species, the other 

 much more grayi>h and more restricted in its distribution than the 

 typical form. 



Ontario, Kearney, July 27, 28, 1911 (M. C. Van Duzee); Ottawa, 

 A.ugus1 13. 1912. 



Quebec, < iatineau. July (Beaulieu); Aylmer, June (Beaulne). 



Maine, Aroostook County, Fort Kent, August 28, 1913 (Osborn); 

 Piscataquis County, Mt. Katahdin, August 22, 1913 (Alexander); 

 Penobscot County, < )rono, June 8 to September 7, 1913 (Alexander); 

 Hancock County, Ellsworth, July 10 to August Hi. 1913 iStanwood). 



Vermont, Windham County, Brattleboro, July 15, 1908 (Johnson). 



Massachusetts, Middlesex County, Riverside, August 9 (Johnson); 

 Auburndale. August 10 (Johnson). 



nnecticut, Middlesex County, Middletown, June 10, 1909 

 I Johnson ; New Haven ( ounty. Eas1 River, July 3, 1910 (Ely). 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 1, 1914 



Alexander); Gloversville, June 3, 1914 (Alexander); Herkimer 



County, Trenton Fall- (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; Indian 



Castle, .bine 9 to 13, 1915 (Alexander); Onondaga County, Green 




1016.] NATURAL S< IK\< ESS OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Lake, June 8, 1915 (Alexander); Tompkins County, Ithaca, May 13 

 to Augusi 7. 1910; Albany County, Albany, June 26, L912 'Young); 

 Helderberg Mountains, June 12, L915 Alexander); Elockland County, 

 West Nyack, June 15, 1912 \Y. Sheffield ; Westchester County, 

 Tarrytown, June 9, 1914 (Fro-: 



New Jersey, Bergen County. Ridgewood, July. 1911 (Leonard); 

 Mercer County, Princeton, June 18, 1915 (Alexandi 



Maryland, Montgomery County, Foresl Glen, July 6, I'M I 

 (McAtee); Plummers Island, .May 26, L914 Shannon). 



District of Columbia, Washington (< >sten Sacken : the type-locality. 



Virginia, Alexandria County, Rosslyn, May 11. 1913 (Knab); 

 Fairfax County. Four-mile Run, July 13, L912 Knab). 



North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 

 13, 1912 QBeutenmuller) ; Jon,- County, Pollocksville, July 8, I'M.". 

 I Alexandi 



1/ chigan, Walnut Lake, June 26-28, 1907 (Needham . 



Saskatchewan, Farewell Creek. September (Mrs. V. A. Anthony). 



Missouri, St. Louis County, Wesl >t. Louis, May 12, I'M 1 \\ . Y. 

 Warner . 



Kansas, Pottawatomie County, Onaga Crevecceur). 



Montana, Beaver < 'reek, altitude ti.:;iiii feet; August, 1913 (Hunter). 



The wing i- shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 33. 



The male bypopygium (Plate XXVI, fig with th< ninth 



pleurite elongate, rather -lender, the dorso-lateral angle produced 

 caudad in a slender, fleshy lobe that i- provided with aumerous long 

 hair-; ventral pleural appendage (t>) a long, slender, pale brown 

 lobe that i~ almosi straight, Blightly expanded toward the blunt 

 apex, provided with numerous setigerous punctures; dorsal pleural 

 appendage [d] two-lobed, the caudal lobe a powerful, heavily chitin- 

 i/.ed, curved spine that i- directed cephalad at it- tip, provided with 

 two or three small, acute denticles before the apex; the ventral arm 

 i- again bifid, the caudal portion a -harp, chitinized, feebly curved 

 -pine, the cephalic portion m small, subfleshy lobe with several hairs 

 and shorl -pni'-. Penis-guard very elongate, pale, narrowed at the 



apex, at the base on either side with a subtending, -lender, -ulichi- 

 tini/ed roil that i- more or !<•-- flexible. 



Gonomyia obscura I toane 8 is unrecognizable; the type in the National 

 Museum is a broken female 'hat i- cl< although its 



Journal of the N J I - - fig. 7 



. L900 . descrih d eu a Phyllolab 




PKO< I I D1NCS Dl 1 111. \« \Pi.\n OF i< >cl., 



type-location (Pullman, Whitman County, Washington, Juno 22, 

 189S' is outside of the range of thai Bpecies as now known. 



Gonomyia ^Gonomyia) aequalis Alexander. 



ilia Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. is. pp. 323, ■>-'! 

 L916 . 



An extra-limital species (Guatemala. Central America) whosi 

 hypopygium has uever been figured. 



Male hypopygium (Plat'- XXX, fig. 86) with the pleurites mod- 

 erately stout, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a very slender, 

 finger-like lobe that is provided with numerous setigerous tubercles; 

 at the base of this lobe on the inner side is a tiny fleshy prof uberance 

 directed proximad; ventral pleural appendage (v) a pale fleshy lobe 

 densely covered with short, pale hairs; dorsal pleural appendage 

 (d) irregular, fleshy, directed proximad, the caudal or outer face near 

 the ap<x with a strong, curved, chitinized hook that is directed 

 dorsad and cephalad, the cephalic or inner face with a row of strong 

 bristles, at the tip longer and more approximated. Ninth tergite 

 almost straight across or slightly concave. Penis-guard rather 

 long, compressed, the median appendage pale, slightly curved. Anal 

 tube (a.t.) broad, prominent, subtended on either side by a concave 

 wing bearing on the caudal outer angle a fimbriate tuft of yellow 

 bristles. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) virgata Doane. 



Gonomyia virgata Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, 

 vol. 8, p. 189, PI. 7, fig. 21 (1900). 



A western species with the following rather restricted range: 



Washington, Pacific County, Tokeland (Doane), the type-locality. 



California. Humboldt County, Eureka, June 6, 1903 (H. S. Barber). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 32. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 87) with the ninth pleurites 

 rather elongate, the dorsal inner angle produced caudad as a slender, 

 cylindrical, fleshy lobe that bears numerous long pale hairs; ventral 

 pleural appendage (v) prominent, directed caudad, narrowed at the 

 the apex a slight chitinizx'd tooth directed proximad; second 

 pleural appendage (#) a flattened or concave lobe, heavily chitinized 

 at the apex which is broad, split into two acute teeth, of which the 

 proximal one i~ the larger; dorsal pleural appendage (d) small, fleshy, 

 bent slightly cephalad at the tip which bears two elongate bristles; 

 cephalic or inner face of the appendage bearing numerous setigerous 

 tubercles. Ninth tergite large, the caudal margin feebly convex, 

 bearing a short, pointed tooth just inside the base of the pleurite. 




1916.] NATURAL BCTEN< ES <>F PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Ninth sternite almost straight across, or Blightly narrowed to the 

 truncated apex. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) unicolor Alexander. 



Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National 

 M ise im, vol. H. p. 507, PI. 66, fig. L5 L91 



An extra-limitaJ species (Guatemala, Central America) included 



here to complete the data. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX. fig. 89 with the pleuritea 

 moderately stout and elongate. 1. the dorsal angle not produced; 

 ventral pleural appendage (t») a double lobe, dark colored, sub- 

 chitinized, the inner arm stout-cylindrical with the tip acute and 

 the inner side with two or three hairs; the outer and more ventral 

 arm slender, curved and bearing near the tip two stoui divergent 

 hair-: dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subcylindrical fleshy lobe from 

 an enlarged base, a1 the apex with two powerful bristles; cephalic 

 or inner face with four small hair- that are evenly spaced. Xinth 

 tergite almosl straighl across or slightly concave. Penis-guard 

 (Plate XXX. fin. 88 3een from beneath, a powerful, quadrangular 

 chitinized base whose caudal angle is a ventrally directed hook, the 

 base subtended od either side by short gonapophysi - thai end 

 in a -harp, conical -pine; from above and dorsad of the quadrangular 

 base arise two cylindrical, pointed, chitinized arm- thai are diver- 

 gent. 



Gonomyia Gonomyia mexicana Alexander. 



Uexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol 21, 322 



L916 



An extra-limital species described from Cordoba, State of Vera 

 Cruz, Mexico, May 8, L908 Knab). 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 91 with the pleuritee 

 elongate, though rather stout; ventral pleural appendage - a long, 

 pale lobe, subcylindrical, blunl at the apex and bearing -par-.-, 

 elongate hair-; second pleural appendage strongly chitinized, the tip 

 acute, curved; dorsal pleural appendage d rather short, cylindrical, 



fleshy, the cephalic or inner angle of the ape\ with two powerful 



bristles; caudal or outer angle of the apex with two -mailer hairs. 

 Xinth tergite rather short, the caudal margin straighl or nearly 

 Penis-guard Plate XXX, fig. 90 very long and pale, the apex bifid 

 l»y a deep U-shaped notch, each lobe provided with long hair-; on 

 the ventral face arises a Blender, rod-like, median appendage, sparsely 

 short-hairy at the apex and down the ventral face; the divecgenl 

 subtending arm- are slender, soraewhal flattened, the apex produced 




528 PBOI EEDINGS 01 I HI \< \m.\n 01 |< >< 



a slender cylindrical point, the outer or ventral margin with a 

 few sharp, appressed teeth. 



RHABDOMASTIX B 



ibdomastix Skuse; [proceedings of the Linnsean Society of NVw South Wales, 

 series 2, vol. I. p] L889 



Subgi Que 3ACANDAGA Uexander. 



Rhabdomastix Sacandaga monticola sp. d. 



' loloration grayish Mack: wings whitish hyaline with an indistinct 

 pale brown stigma; cross-vein r present bul faint; cell Ri small; coil 

 /.-■/ .1/. elongate with the basal deflection of Cu x inserted at about 

 mid-length. 



Male. Length about 5.5 nun.; wing, <> nun. 



Rostrum anil palpi dark brownish black. Antennae Hack, the 

 lar segments with a long, pale pubescence; flagellar segments 

 narrowed, especially terminally. Head Mack with a sparse grayish 

 bloom. 



Mesonotum Mack with a sparse grayish yellow pollen; tuberculate 

 pit- on the extreme cephalic margin of the sclerite. Pleura clearer 

 gray. Halteres pale, the knobs enlarged, the stem a little darkened 

 basally. Legs with the coxa' black with a sparse gray bloom; tro- 

 chanter- brown; femora dark brown; tibiae yellowish brown, a little 

 darkened at the base and more narrowly at the tips; tarsal seg- 

 ment one and all except the tip of two yellowish brown; remainder 

 of the tarsi dark brown. Wings subhyaline, 1 he stigma fairly distinct, 

 oval, pale brown; veins dark brown, Sc paler. Venation (Plate 

 XXVII, fig. 41) with h's elongate; cell l{, small, vein A', being 

 short, oblique; Rt arcuated: cross-vein /• present but very indistinct, 

 bisecting the -tigma; cell tst Mi rectangular, somewhat elongated, 

 the vein- issuing from it not elongated, divergent; basal deflection 

 of Cv.\ almost mid-length of coll tst M . 



Abdomen dark brownish black. 



Habitat. -Western America. 



Holotype. cf, Kokanee Mountain. British Columbia, altitude 

 8,000 feei. August 11, 1903 (R. P. Curriej. 



Paratopotypes, 3 rj' ~. 



Type in the collection of the United State- National Museum. 



This species was formerly determined a- being R. (S.) caudata 

 Lundbeck? in the first part of this series, but additional material 



• Diptera grdenlandica, Vidensk. Meddel. fra den oaturh. Foren., p. 2<i7, 

 PI. • ',. fig, ]s [g98 Goniomyia, subgenus Empeda. 




1916.] NATURAL S< Ii:\< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



shows that the species is distinct. It serves to conned the gen- 

 eralized caudata with the specialized members of the subgenus 

 (flaw, parva). The small cell /.'■ and the elongate cell 1st M t with the 

 short, divergent veins issuing from it. and the basal deflection of 

 Cui inserted a1 Dearly midlength of it serve to separate the form 

 from caudata. This latter species is described and figured in a 

 publication that is not readily accessible to the student, and its 

 venation is shown on Plate XXVII, fig. 12. With caudata this uew 

 species agrees in the possession of the radial cross-vein, bul this is 

 here very faint and evidently in process of being eliminated. In 

 R. flava Plate XXVII, fig. 13) the cross-vein is Lacking. 



In regard to the genus Rhabdomastix Skuse it will be noted thai 

 Kertesz gives the date of Skuse'a paper on the Limnobinse as L890; 

 the first separates of this article are .late, 1 September 25, 1889, and 

 it i- this date that ha- been adopted. 



PTEROCHIONEA ten. a. 



Palpi short, four-segmented, the segments subequal. Antenna? 

 1 L-segmented, the first segment of the scape longer than the second; 

 second segment narrow-subglobular, not strikingly wider than the 

 adjacent segments; first segment of the fiagellum elongate, tapering 

 shghtly to the tip, formed by the fusion of five segments as determined 

 by the verticils, near the tip with a faint suture thai passes about 

 half-way across the segmenl on the verticillate side; segments four to 

 ten moderately elongated, cylindrical, truncated at both end- Plate 

 XXXI, .ith a strong series of verticils; terminal segment 



forme. 1 by the fusion of two segments as determined by the verticils. 

 Wings moderately broad (Plate XXVII, fig. II . Si moderately elon- 

 _ ed ending just beyond the end of /.' ,St at its tip; R$ long, strongly 

 arcuated at its origin; cross-vein r present; cell 1st Aft elongate, the 

 deflection of V. over twice the Length of the median cross-vein; cell 



M present; basal deflecti f( u attheforkof \i ; second anal vein 



.-Imrt . ending before the origin of the sector. Legs hair} . nol incras- 

 i: tibial withoul -pur-. Male hypopygium powerful (Plate 

 \ \ \ I fig 94 , suggesting the ( 'hioru a type, the pleural pieces stout, 

 cylindrical, with a strong pleural appendage, somewhat curved, nearly 

 as Long as the pleurites; ventral lobe small, rounded, hairy. 



riotype. Pterochioneabradleyisp.il. Western Nearctic region. 



This new genus is closesl to I ipt* Bi rgroth 10 of the northern 

 Palsearctic region in the curious fusion <>f the five I gmente of 



I I'd.; 




PRO< EEDINGS OF THE LC \ni.\n OF [< let., 



the antenna': however, tin- fusion-segmenl is merely elongated and 

 does nm show the elongate-conical shape of the segmenl in ( rypteria 

 and the even more accentuated condition of Chionea. Specimens of 

 mea valga Harris before me show eighl flagellar segments beyond 

 the fusion-segment, the basal ones short, becoming more and mor< 

 attenuated toward the tip of the organ. Therefore, in the reduction 

 of the antenna! segments by the fusion of the basal flagellar segments, 

 Chionea also -how- a very close relationship to Crypteria and Ptero- 

 chionea. I certainly think that Bergroth is right in surmising a 

 relationship between his Crypteria and the abnormal, wingless 

 Chionea, and Pterochionea may now be added to the list of possible 

 CAionea-precursors. This interpretation would remove Chionea 

 from the neighborhood of Trimicra and Symplecta and place it at the 

 end of the Eriopterine series along with Cladura and the presenl 

 genu-. 



The two winged genera of this group may be separated as follows; 



1. Ant. una' with the second segment enlarged, globular; the two 

 apical segments of the fiagellum entirely distinct; cross-vein 

 /• absent; second anal vein very elongate, extending beyond 

 midlength of the radial sector; hypopygium with the pleural 

 piece- slender with two small, subequal appendages. I North- 

 western Palaearct ic.) CrypU ria 1 $< irgr< >t 1 1 . 



Antenna? with the second segment not enlarged; the two apical 

 segments of the fiagellum fused; cross-vein /• present; second 

 anal vein short . not reaching to the base of the sector; hypopy- 

 gium with the pleural pieces stout-cylindrical with a strong, 

 powerful dorsal appendage that is almost as long as the 

 pleurite. (Northwestern Xearctic.) Pterochionea gen. n, 



Pterochionea bradleyi Bp. n. 



Antenna- brown, of eleven segments; wings with cell .1/, present^ 

 male hypopygium strong and powerful. 



Male. Length, "> mm.; wing, 5.6 mm. Fore leg, femur, 3.6 mm.; 

 tibia, 3.8 mm.: hind leg, femur, 1.1 mm.; tibia, 4 mm. 



The species is described from alcoholic material. 



Rostrum short, lighl brown; palpi brown. Antenna' dark brown; 

 lb ad yellowish brown. 



Thoracic dorsum dull yellow with indistinct darker -tripe- on the 

 prssscutum. Pleura yellowish. Halteres pale. Legs with the coxa? 

 and trochanters pale yellow; femora light brownish yellow, a little 

 darkened apically, the fore femora darker, being only a little paler 

 at the- base; tibia- and tarsi brown. Wings nearly hyaline, the 

 ia indistinct ; vein- dark brown, subcosta pale. Venation I Plate 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



XXVII, fig. 44): basaJ deflection of R t + S very short or obliterated, 

 the cross-vein r-wj being correspondingly longer, arcuated; cell M t 



short, about one-half as Long as it- petiole. 



Abdomen short, the tergites dark brown, the hypopygium even 

 darker. Male hypopygium 'Plate XXXI, fig. 94) powerfully 

 enlarged, the pleurites not conspicuously elongated ending in a 

 rounded ventral lobe that is covered with numerous hairs; the single 

 pleura] appendage a powerful curved arm thai is rather Muni at the 

 tip, with numerous long hair- on 'lie inner face and at the apex 



where they are exceedingly numerous and spinous, at the extreme 

 apex very tiny. 



Habitat.- British < lolumbia. 



Solotype, cf, Roger- Pa—. British Columbia. August '.'. 1915 

 (Bradley. 



Allotype, 9 . in copula with the type. 



Type, mounted in balsam, in the collection of Cornell University. 



This interesting crane-fly is dedicated to the collector, Dr. J. 

 Chester Bradley, of Cornell University, to whom 1 am indebted for 

 assistance and advice upon many subjects. 



Tribe Limnophilini. 

 LIMNOPHILA Macquart. 



Limnophila Macquart; Suit a Buffon, vol. 1, Histoire Naturelle Dipteres, 



l» 94 iv; t . 



Limnophila irrorata 



lophila irrorala Johnson; Proceedings "t the Boston Society of Natural 

 Bistory, vol. 34, No. 5, pp. 127, 128, PL 16, Bg. 17 L909 



This interesting species was described from the unique female 

 found floating dead in a water receptacle al Riverton, New Jersey, 

 and had apparently qoI been found since thai time. The fly was 

 rediscovered in 1915 while the author was searching for Venus 

 fly-traps, Dioncea muscipula 1111. , near Jacksonville, North Carolina. 

 The male aex is here described and the specimen made the allotype: 



Male. Length 7.6 7.8 mm.; wing, 7 7..'; nun. Agrees closely 

 with the female. I. nt the head a little more brownish; petiole of cell 

 /.'. of the wings v'iy short, not as long as the r-wi cross-vein; basal 

 deflection of Cu inserted beyond mid-length of cell />/ MY 



Allotype imp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 



!i, L915 Alexandt 



Allotype m the collection of the author. 



The following notes on the natural habitat of the species may be 

 given: ' 




532 PRO( BEDINQS OF THE \' \i>i:\n OF [Oct., 



Ai Camp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 9, L915, 

 .mi a small branch of the New River. The Hi*'- occurred in a typical 

 Bweet-gum swamp, the dominant forest cover being the Liquidarribar, 



Ilex apnea, (Jin reus niichaiixi Acer rvbrum , Fraxinue sp.j with 

 considerable Liriodendron and a little Pinue tceda, growing in very wet 

 to moisl soil, and the undergrowth was very rank and luxuriant, 

 Rnn.qisrf.irtg of the all-dominant lizards-tail, Saururus cernuus, from 

 which plain the flies were swept; other plants, as Osmunda regalis, 

 ''>iis, Carpinus caroliniana and Callicarpa americana, 

 being common. The following crane-flies were associated with this 

 species: 



Gonomyia sidphureUa, rare; G. nianca, common; Gnophomyia 

 tristissima, uncommon; Epiphragma solatrix, rare; Limnophila 

 macrocera, uncommon; /,. tenuipes and hiieipennis abundant; Pen- 

 thoptera albitarsis, common; Brachypremna dispettens, abundant, 

 many being heavily infested with a species of Tronihiili nm\ Oropeza 

 subalbipes, rare; Tipvla tricolor, common; T. perlongipes, rare; 

 BiUacomorpha clavipes and Ptychoptera rufocincta, common. 



It should be here noted that there is a Polymoria irrorata Philippi 11 

 that in all probability is a Limnophila and prior to the present 

 species. This apparent status of Polymoria has been pointed out 

 by the author in another paper. 12 



Limnophila strepens sp. n. 



Head light gray with short, brown hairs; thorax yellowish brown 

 with a darker median stripe on the pnescutum; legs brownish-yellow, 

 the femora and tibiae not darkened at their apices. 



Male— Length, about 12 mm.; wing, 11.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antenine short, light brown, the 

 flagellar segments gradually narrowed and lengthened toward the 

 tip of the organ; verticils long, black. Head light gray with numer- 

 ous, rather short brown hairs, inserted in blackish punctures. 



Mesonotum light yellowish brown with a broad darker reddish 

 brown median stripe; lateral stripes indistinct; lobes of the scutum 

 reddish brown, their posterior margin and the scutellum more 

 yellowish; postnotum pale reddish with a sparse gray bloom. Pleura 

 reddish brown with a sparse gray bloom. Halteres pale, the knobs 

 darker at their tip-. Legs with the coxae reddish yellow; trochanters 

 dull yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow throughout; tarsi 



" Verh. zool.-boi <■■ Wien. vol. 15, p. 608, PI. 23, fig. 3 L865). 



12 p, National Museum, vol. 11, pp. 181, 190 and 547 (1913 




1916.] NATL UAL S< II \< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



brown. Wings subhyaline, costal region more yellowish; apex of 

 the wing broadly but indistinctly darkened; stigma prominent, dark 

 brown; a pale brown seam on the deflection of A\ -.. Venation: 

 Rs moderate in Length, somewhat angulated at its origin; /.'■.• -, about 

 equal to or a little shorter than thai portion of Ri before the radial 

 cross-vein; rat the tip of A\; basal deflection of Cu t under the middle 

 of cell 1st M2. 



Abdominal tergites 'lull yellow, unmarked; sternites a Little Lighter 

 yellow, the eighth segment and the caudal portion- of the seventh a 

 Little inoic brownish. 



Habitat. — Western United States. 



Eolotype, &, Marin County, California (Coll. Ey. Edwards, 

 No. 814). 



Type in the collection of the American Museum of Natural Eistory. 



Related to flavipila Doane which has the hair- on the head longer 

 and Light yellow in color, the mesonotum darker brown, the pleura 

 Light gray, the tip- of the femora and tibia? dark brown, wings with 

 a lnor. yellowish tinge, especially uear the costa, Ri much shorter 

 than that portion of Rj before the radial cross-vein. En flavipila 

 the head and first antenna! segment are Light gray, not In-own as 

 described by 1 >oane. 



Limnophila edwardi -p n. 



Antenna? elongated; cell .U, of the wings absent : thorax with dark 

 -tripe- on the praescutum. 



Mah . Length, 7.2 mm.; wing, 8 nun.; antenna? about 5 nun. 



Rostrum dull yellow, the palpi brownish Mack. Antenna' dark 

 brown, the flagellar segments greatly eli.n-j.nte. 1 with outspreading 

 pubescence. Head dark brownish black with a sparse grayish 

 bloom. 



Thorax brownish yellow, the praescutum with three broad, dark 

 brown -tripe-, the middle one broadest, confluent behind with the 

 Bhorl Lateral -tripe-: Bcutum, scutellum and postnotum dark brown. 

 Pleura brownish yellow. Ealteres pale, the knobs darker, brown. 

 Legs with the coxa?, trochanters and bases of the femora dull yellow; 

 remainder of the Legs dark brown. Wings with a faint brownish 

 tinge; stigma elongate-oval, dark brown; veins dark brown. Vena- 

 tion Plate XXVII, fig. l"> : R elongate, in a Line with /.' ; /.' 

 Longer than the basal deflection o cross-vein r at the fork of 



R, . .-. 1 1 U lacking. 



Abdomen dark brown, the hypopygium more yellowish. 



Habitat. Northeastern United Si ' 




53 l PRO< i i DINGS I 'i i in. \< mm \n I »] (» >d .. 



Holoty] Simmons Woods, Glovereville, Fulton County, Ni \\ 



York, altitude 900 feet, June 22, L916 (Alexander). 



This i- the firsl Eastern -peril- thai has the antenna elongated 

 and cell Mi of the wings Lacking a1 the same time. It bears a greal 

 resemblance to L. U nuijn s Say, a species with cell .W, present and the 

 venational details slightly different. 



The type was taken in a cold woods with decided Canadian Moral 

 tendencies, in association with the following Tipulidae: 



Dicranomyia pubipennis, Ormosia monticola, 0. rubella, Erioptera 

 stigmaiica, Gonomyia florens, Limnophila toxoneura, I., areolata, 

 L. atteni, L. fv&covaria, L. munda, Adelphomyia minuta, Ula elegans, 

 Rhaphidolabis ruin sens. Tricyphona calcar, Tipula oropezoides, 

 T. hermannia and T. monticola. 



I dedicate this species to Thomas Edward, the eminent Scotch 

 naturalist, the story of whose life and struggles 18 in the interests of 

 natural science has always done much to encourage me in this work. 



Limnophila sylvia *p. n. 



Antennas -hint: cell Mi of the wings absent; thorax with dark 

 stripes mi the praescutum; pleura without stripes. 



Male. Length, 5 5.5 mm.; wing, 6.5-7.6 mm. 



Rostrum brownish yellow, the palpi dark brown. Antenna' short, 

 the scapal segments dull yellow, tlagelhnn dark brown; flagellar 

 segments oval. Head brown with a sparse grayish bloom. 



Thorax dull light yellow, the praescutum with three dark brown 

 stripes, the lateral stripes confluent with the median stripe; scutum 

 yellow with the lobes largely dark brown; scutellum yellow; post- 

 not urn brownish yellow. Pleura yellow. Halteres pale, the knobs 

 brownish. Leu.- with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora 

 dull yellow, the tips darker brown; tibiae yellowish brown, tipped with 

 brownish; metatarsi brownish yellow, the remainder of the tarsi dark 

 brown. Wings with a slight grayish tinge; stigma rather indistinct, 

 brownish; vein- dark brown. Venation (Plate XXVII, fig. 46): 

 R 2+i rather elongated, about equal to the basal deflection of Cui\ 

 cross-vein r at the tip of A'i and situated on R%) deflection of R t n 

 arcuated, nearer the wing-root than is the r-wi cross-vein; cell Mi 

 :it ; basal detlection of Cui variable in position, at the fork of M 

 just beyond the fork of M to about one-third the length of the cell 

 1st Mt. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown; sternites dull brownish yellow. 



13 Life ol - ch Naturalist: Thomas Edward, associate of the Linneean 

 - auel Smiles (Harper & Bros., L877 . 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



the caudal margins a little brighter; eighth and ninth Bternitea dark 

 brown. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, cf , Mountain Lake Fulton < '.unity, New York, altitude 

 1,600 feet, June 13, L916 (Alexander). 



Paratopotypes, 2 c?'s. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



Thi- species was associated with Erioptera nyctops, and an account 

 of the ecological condition- and associates will !><• found under the 

 account of thai species. 



L. sylvia is quite distincl from any of the described species thai 

 lack cell M of the wings. From the guadrata group it differ- in 

 having vein R t long, no1 tending to be oblique, deflection of AVs 

 nearer the wing-rool than is r-m, basal deflection of Cu t aearer to the 

 base of cell 1st M», etc.; from the lenta group it differs in the long 

 sector; from emmelina, it. differs in tin- petiolate cell Rt, and from 

 it, differs in having Rs almost in a line with R t •• the 

 dark brown stripes on the praescutum, etc. 



POLYMERA Wiedemann. 



Wiedemann; Diptera exotica, vol. 1. p. W (1821 . 



Polymera georgiae Alexander. 



gia Alexander; Psyche, vol. I s . pp. L99, 200, PI, L6, fig. 5 

 1911 



This is the only known species of the genus as ye1 found within 



our limits and, so far as known, it is confi I to the southeastern 



United States. P. obscura Macquart, of oorthern South America 

 and Middle America, ranges into Cuba and may appear in the 

 Miami section of Florida. /'. geniculate Alexander of Porto Rico is 

 also regional. The distribution of Polymera georgia i- as follow 



//// Carolina, Georgetown County, South [sland, Augusl 19, 

 1915 Alexander . 



irgia, Decatur County, Spring Creek, July 20, 1912 (Bradlej ; 

 Glynn Count 31 Simons [sland, April, May, 1911 Bradley), the 

 type-locality; Charlton County, Billy's [sland, Okefinokee Swamp, 

 June 20, 1912 BradL 

 Florida, Dade County, Biscayne Baj - in . 

 The only specimen thai I have ever seen alive was taken in a Bait- 

 marsh palmetto association on South [sland, South Carolina, at the 

 end of the causeway between South and < 'at [elands. The 

 association was a palmetto island surrounded on the wesi bj a perfect 

 of the -alt rush J it cover con- 




PRO* BEDING8 OF THE A.C \iu:\l\ 01 ' M 



1 of the dominant palmetto (Sabal Palmetto (Walt) 1!. A.- S.)> 

 live oak, (jtu reus virginiana, heavily draped with Spanish moss, 

 TiUandsia, ami the coast white cedar, Chamoscyparis thuyoides. The 

 shrubbery consisted »>t" a mixed growth of Myrica carolinensis, 

 common; Ilex vomitoria, several; <'n(lic<irp<i americana, abundant, 

 and two Bhrubby Composites, Iva frutescens ami Borrickia frutescens, 

 common. The undergrowth from which the Tipulids were swept 

 consisted o\ greal beds of Polygonum punctaium, with a more sparse 

 admixture of spike grass, DisHchlis spicata; Hydrocotyle umbellata; 

 ami the Verbenaceous plant-. hippia nodiflora and Verbena 

 caroliniana. 14 



The Tipulidffl of the ahove floral association showed a -trong 

 Floridian tendency, the associates of Polymera being as follows: 



Dicranomyia distans, abundant; D. floridana, rare; Tcucholabis 

 carolinensis, rare; Gonomyia (Lciponeura) puer, rare; G. (Gonomyella) 

 slossona . several; Erioptera (Mesocyphona) pdrva, abundant, and 

 Brachypremna dispellens, common. 



Tribe Pedicini. 



TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt. 



1838. Triri/phomi Zetterstedt; [nsecta Lapponica, Dittera, p. 851. 

 This genus, like the tribe Pedicini in general, has a northern 

 distribution throughout the world. There are seven species now 

 known in the eastern Tnited States which may be summarized as 

 follow- : 

 Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII. fig. 47.) 



Canadian and Transitional-Canadian zones of the eastern United 

 State- and Canada. One of our commonest and best-known crane- 

 flies, ranging from Ontario, Quebec and Newfoundland south (in the 

 mountain-) to Georgia and west to Michigan. It is also recorded 

 from Europe, but a very careful comparison with abundant material 

 and a critical study of the male hypopygium must be made before 

 these records can be finally accepted. The fly is abundant in swamps 

 and low swales. In New York and New England it is on the wing 

 from May 12 to September 28, while in the vicinity of Washington 

 it appears even earlier (Great Fall-, Virginia, April 20, 1013 (Knab)). 



Tricyphona calcar Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 48.) 



Canadian life-zone of northeastern America, ranging from the 

 Hudson* -on, Ontario and Quebec south 'in the mountains) 



M I am indebted to Mr. W. L. McAtee, of the United States Biological Survey, 

 for hi- kindness in determining many of the above-listed plants. 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



i" North Carolina. It i- a species of loy swampy areas, though 

 usually more wooded than that frequented by inconstans. In New 

 York and New England it flies from May 22 to October 1, being 

 abundant in late May and early June, reappearing the latter half of 

 July and being common throughoul August and early September. 

 The late summer specimens probably represent a new species, the 

 females having the wings very reduced in size. 



Tricyphona auripennis Oaten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 49.) 



< 'auadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, known only 

 from New Bampshire, Massachusetts the type-locality) and New 

 York. It flies in June The only specimens ever seen alive by the 

 author occurred at Indian Castle, Herkimer County, New York, 

 June LO to L3, L915; they were found sitting motionless <>n the 

 perpendicular face of a small cliff, lurking in -mall crevices of the 

 rock. The cliff is low, of (Jtica -hale, completely saturated by 

 percolating water and well-shaded by large hemlocks, arbor vita?, 

 yellow birch, mountain maple, Comas circinata, etc., and with a 

 sparse vegetation of Impatiem biflora, Geranium Robertianum, 

 Collinsonia canadensis, Cystopteris buUrifera and Equisetum arven 



Tricyphona hyperborea - XXVIII, fig 



A fly of the Hudsonian and possibly the Canadian life-zones of 

 northeastern America and still very rare in collections. It was 

 described from Labrador, and a few specimens have been taken on 

 .Mi. Washington, New Hampshire; these specimens are in tin- col- 

 lections of the Boston Society of Natural History and the United 

 - Nat ional Museum. 



Tricyphona katahdin Uezander (Plato XXVIII, I 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, a late 

 summer species flying during the latter half of August. 



Tricyphona vernalis 



Canadian and Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern 

 United Stat.-. One of our early-flying species, though appearing 

 later, as a rule, than poludicola. It ranges from Main and New 

 Hampshire Bouth (in the mountains to Georgia, and is found along 

 Bmall streams, temporary and permanent, where the water runs 

 rapidly. The flies may be -wept from vegetation or are found in 

 small -warm- of eighl to ten individuals near the water. In New 

 York and New England il is on the wing in late May, abundant in 

 .lune and persisting into July. Further south it flies in April or 

 even the last of March, reappearing in late September. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE A.CADBM1 01 [Oct., 



Tricyphona paludioola -p a. (Plate XXVII] 



( lanadian-Transitiona] (ife-zone of the northeastern United Sti 



as yet known only from New York. It flies in early spring (May 

 7 20), and la found in swampy, stagnanl localities. 



Tricyphona paludicola »p. d. 



Antennse dark brown throughout; head and thorax grayish lu-own, 

 the mesonotal prsescutum with three dark brown stripes, the middle 

 one splil by a broad line of the ground-color; abdomen In-own, the 

 tergites uniform in color; wings almosl unicolorous, the dark markings 

 reduced to punctiform dots and narrow seams. 



Male. Length, 7.6 8 mm.; wing, 8.0-8.7 mm. 



Female. Length, lit.:. L0.9 mm.; wing, 10.5-10.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antenna- black, the flagellar 

 segments shortened and gradually narrowed. Head grayish brown. 



Mesonotal prsescutum pale grayish brown with three dark brown 

 -tripe-, the middle stripe very broad and more or less bisected by a 

 narrow, median vitta of the ground-color, lateral stripes short, 

 narrow; scutum gray, the lobes with a rounded dark brown spot; 

 scutellum and postnotum light gray. Pleura light gray, the dorso- 

 pleural membranes pale brown. Halteres light brown, the knobs 

 dark brown. Legs with the coxae reddish, gray pruinose; trochanters 

 brownish yellow; femora dark brown, the fore pair with the basal 

 quarter a little brightened, middle pair with the basal third, hind 

 pair with about the basal half brightened; tibia? and tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings grayish subhyaline, the costal cells more suffused, brownish 

 yellow; tiny dark brown dots at Sc», origin of Rs, tip of Sc h cross-vein 

 r, above the fork of Rs, cross-vein r-m and a narrow seam along the 

 basal deflection of Cu\\ paler gray clouds underneath the tip of 

 R 2+3 and near t he t ip of 2nd A; veins dark brown, Sc more yellowish. 

 Venation (Plate XXVIII, fig. 53): distance between Sc 2 and the 

 origin of the sector about equal to the sector alone; Rs angulated 

 and often spurred at origin; r at the tip of Ri\ distance between the 

 fork of R& and cross-vein r-m about equal to that cross-vein; petiole 

 of cell R 3 a little longer than r-m; cell 1st M 2 closed, long and narrow; 

 cell Mi present, usually longer than its petiole; cross-vein m-cu 

 hi or barely obliterated by the fusion of the adjacent veins. 



Abdominal tergites dark grayish brown; sternites similar with the 

 gments indistinctly ringed with paler; hypopygium con- 

 colorous with the rest of the abdomen; valves of the ovipositor 

 brownish yellow. 



Habitat. — Northeastern Hiked States. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Holotype, cf, McLean, Tompkins County, New York, May 13, 

 L916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, ? . with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 24 cf's, 1 9 ; 1 o", 1 9, on May 20, L916 (P. A. 

 Claassen). 



The type is in the collection of the author; Mr. Claassen has 

 deposited his paratypes in the collection of the University of Kansas. 



As is very frequenl in this genus of flies, abnormalities of the 

 wing-venation often occur; one male specimen has cell tst M, open 

 by the atrophy of the median cross-vein in both wings; four other 

 males in the series show adventitious cross-veins or spurs in various 

 cells of the wings. 



When Osten Sacken described Tricyphona vemalis, 1 * he had only 

 a male and a female specimen from Washington, D. C, taken in 

 April, these showing the pale antenna! bases, cingulated abdomen 

 and heavily patterned wings thai are characteristic of vemalis. The 

 specimens from the White Mountains, X'u Hampshire, were added 

 in the Monographs, p. 271. I am greatly indebted to Mr. C. W. 

 Johnson for his kindness in examining the types alis and 



making notes upon them. Abundant material that I have determined 

 agree in all details with Osten Sacken's descriptions, 

 pi thai the capillary median ground vitta «>n the prseecutum is 

 less distinct than the description implies. 



The gray or brownish gray species of this section of Tricypfu 

 may I"- separated by the following key: 



1 . Scape of t he antenna? yellowish or brownish j ellow, t he Qagellum 

 much darker, dark brown; abdominal tergites brown, the 

 margins of the segments pale producing a cingulated appear- 

 ance; wings with large rounded clouds al the tip-; <>f the 

 longitudinal veins and along the cross-veins 



ri rnalis < teten Sacken. 

 Scape of the antenna dark brown, concolorous with theflagellum; 

 abdominal tergites brown, unhanded; wings with the pattern 

 almost obsolete, reduced to tiny dote and seams 



paludicola, >p. n. 



The following ecological notes on Tricyphona paludicola are taken 

 from ni\ field notes, dated Maj 13, 1916, LO 1 1 \.M.. at the McLean 

 where v .m- were engaged in making a biological survey of the 

 p'<ri.»n nn<liT tin- personal direction of Dr. James G. Needham, 



u Proceedings oi The Icademi <<i Natural S< i Philadelphia, 



pp. 201, 292, i -.I li 




.". Id PRO< II DINGS "I THE \< \l>l.\n OF 



Thi - occurs in the Alnus associatioo a shorl distance e 



I ■ .iiml Pond, in company with Tiptda dejecta Walker, the only 

 other crane-fly on the wing at this date and hour. 



The water is stagnant or Dearly so with the little pools filled with 

 an algal growth, kindly determined for me by Dr. J. R. Schramm, of 

 Cornell University, as being Dear Microspores and Tribonema, abun- 

 dant; (Edegonium sp. and Spirogyra sp., the latter conjugating 

 laterally, and some Mougeotia, Vaitcheria, etc., with many Diatoms; 

 in addition to these there is a dense growth of young seedlings 

 biflora. The mud is so sofl thai it is necessary to 

 wade knee-dee]) in order to explore this region. There is still ice 

 down underneath the stratum and the A hi us is just coming into leaf, 

 allowing the sun to light up the ground underneath. The dominant 

 herbaceous plant- at this time were Carex aquatilis, Saxifraga pennsyl- 

 • •<>, with the plants in bud and the stalks not more than six to 

 nine inches high, and Caltha palustris in full flower. 



There is do doubl hut that the Tipula and the present species both 

 emerged from the stagnant pools formed in the marsh adjoining 

 ( da— y ( !reek. Both species of crane-flies were common, but the 

 Tipula was more in evidence by its larger size and habit of flying. 

 The Tricyphona was usually found resting on the saxifrage or on the 

 inclined side of alder limbs, the males often fluttering about from 

 place to place a short distance above the ground, never very rapidly. 

 The female- were found resting on the alder stems, inactive, and the 

 males wire presumably searching for them. 



In the afternoon when the warmth of the sun made itself felt, 

 none of the Tricyphona and only a few of the Tipula were in evidence 

 in this haunt, their places having been taken by dense swarms of 

 Chironomifhe and a very few of the crane-fly, Erioptera septemtrionis 

 < teten Sacken. 



On May 20, Mr. P. A. Claassen found a male and a female in bis 

 tent-trap- se1 Dear this place, proving that the immature stages are 

 spent in the mud beneath. 



RHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken. 



Rhaphidolabis Oaten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, 

 pt. t. p. 284 1869). 



Subgenus RHAPHIDOLABIXA subgen. n. 



Similar to Rhaphidolabis s. s., differing as follows: Antennae 

 L5_s, j 1, the first eight segments of the flagellum normal. 



cylindrical, bearing strong hairs at about midlength, these alternating 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



in their arrangement, being on the same face on the even segments; 

 the ninth and eleventh segments are smaller and lie between the 

 long, verticillate tenth and twelfth segments; thirteenth segment of 

 the flagellum long, .sigmoid, bearing three long hairs at the apex. 

 Wings with the median cross-vein present, connecting M . with 

 .1/ . 



Type of the subgenus, Rhaphidolabis flaveola Osten Sacken. 



The curious pallid fly thai I have deemed besl to separate from 

 the other species of the genus i.s anomalous in many respects and 

 may eventually !><• placed nearer to Tricyphona, where indeed it was 

 provisionally assigned by Xeedhain." It is certainly more distinct 

 from Rhaphidolabis than is Plectromyia which has herein been con- 

 sidered tn have subgeneric value. Under these circumstances it 

 may be better to call the genus Plectromyia, thai name having 

 -priority over Rhaphidolabis, but for the presenl the latter name 



has been retained. 



The American species Hi' the genus may be separated by the 



following key: 



1. Antennae L5-segmented; cross-vein m presenl subgenus Rhaphi- 



dolabina). (Northeastern United States. 



flaveola ' >sten Sacken. 

 Antennae 13-segmented; cross-vein m absenl 2 



2. Cell M] absenl (subgenus Plectromyia . (Northeastern United 



mod* sin t Men Sacken. 



("ell Mi presenl (subgenus Rhaphidolabis) '■> 



:;. < 'ell /,' petiolate l 



ile i, 



l. Wings whitish hyaline with a dark brown, oval stigma. I Eastern 



Rocky Mountain region.) i Alexander. 



Wings withoul a clearly defined, dark brown stigma 



5. Antennae of tin: male elongated; /»•• long, straight, the distance 



•ween Set and the origin Hi' the sector being less than the 



length "I' the sector. Western United States, 



polynu ■ ■ Uexander. 

 Antennae ( >f tin- male -hurt; /,' -hurt, arcuated, the distance 

 between Sc and the origin "i the sector about two times the 

 length "i" the -e.-i.n-. i • fi l Fnited 5 



h nuipt « >sten Sacken. 



ti. Coloratii h brown, the praeecutum with three dark brown 



-tripe-; abdomen dark brown with paler caudal margins to the 



gments; wings very pale brown, the radial sector very -hurt. 



arcuated or angulated. | Norl heastern United Stati 



p. n. 



Twenty-third Report <>f the New 

 1907, .-i- .1 male 




542 PROCEEDINGS 01 ["HE ICADEM1 01 [Oct., 



Coloration reddish brown, the prsescutum with three indistinct 

 stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the hypopygium brighl 

 yellow, wings nearly hyaline, the radial sector somewhal 

 elongated, arcuated. (Northeastern United States.) 



ruhrscins sp. II. 



The following general statements may !"■ made regarding bhi 

 species: 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola < taten Sacki a. 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States and eastern 

 Canada, Osten Sacken's Maryland type being the mosl -out hern 

 record. It is abundanl from Ontario and Maine south to Maryland. 

 In New York and New England it flies from May ■'!*» to September 21 , 

 being most numerous in June. It may be looked for in cold, damp, 

 shady places, such as along mountain streams and similar situations. 



Rhaphidolabis (Plectromyiai modesta Osten Sacken. (Plate \\\ lii 



I lanadian life-zone <>i' the northeastern I nited States, known only 

 from the White Mountain-, New Hampshire, the type-locality, 

 and the southern Adirondack Mountains, New York. It is found 

 along small mountain streams, Hying in June. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) neomexicana Alexander. 



Rocky Mountain region, known from two stations in Colorado 

 and one in New Mexico. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) polymeroides Alexander. 



Known only from the type-locality, Eureka, Humboldt County, 

 California. May 22, 1903 II. S. Barber). 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis > tenuipes Oaten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 56 I 



Canadian and Canadian-Transitional life-zones of the eastern 

 United State-, from Maine to Georgia, flying in April and May in 

 the south, a little later in the nort h, and reappearing in late summer, 

 Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) cayuga Bp. n. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 57.) 



Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern I nited States. 

 This i- the earliest species of the genus in the north, appearing on 

 the wins: in April and early May, reappearing in August. In New 

 York it comes with the very first of the early spring crane-flies, such 

 ;i~ Ormosia nubila, 0. innocens, Limnophila brevifurca, Tipula colbnis, 

 7'. dejecta, etc. 



Rhaphidolabis < Rhaphidolabis) rubescens *p- n. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 58.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, appearing 

 on the wing a little later than does the last (the first half of June). 

 It is characteristic of cold Canadian woods near running water. 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



It is probable that, like the Last-named species, it reappears in 

 August as described under R. tenuipes, such species presumably 



being double-brooded. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis> cayuga «p. ". 



Head brownish gray; thorax grayish brown with three dark brown 

 stripes; abdomen dark brown, the segments narrowly ringed with 

 paler; wings pah- In-own; cell R t sessile, Rs very short, arcuated or 

 angulated; cell 1st .U, open by the atrophy of the median cross-vein; 



cell Mi short. 



Mule. — Length. 5 5. 1 mm.; wing, 6.3 6.6 mm. 



Female. Length, 6.6 nun.: wing, 7.7 nun. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 



flagellar segment- short -cylindrical. Head brownish gray. 



Mesonotum grayish brown, the prsescutum with three dark brown 

 stripe-, the middle stripe broadest, ending before the suture; lateral 

 -tripe- narrow and less distinct ; -ciitum light brown, the lobe- largely 

 dark brown: SCUtellum and postnotum dark with a heavy gia\ 

 bloom. Pleura dark brown with a gray bloom. Ilaltere- light 

 yellow, the knob- dark brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters 

 dark brown: femora similar, a little paler at the extreme base; tibifiE 

 and tarsi dark brown. Wing- with a light brown tinge, stigma a 

 little darker but poorly defined, veins dark brown. Venation 

 (Plat i' KXVIII, fiLi. .~>7 1 : Sc long, Set far removed from it- 1 ip; distance 

 bet ween Set and the origin of /,'.- about t wice t he lengl h of t be sector; 

 Rs very short, arcuated, angulated, or sometimes -purred; cell M, 

 .-hort and weak, tending to be evanescent, less than one-half the 

 length of cell M,. 



Abdominal segments dark brown, the caudal lnarmn- of the 



terminal segments narrowly ringed with paler; hypopygium brownish 

 yellow. 



Habitat. Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, f 1 , McLean, Tompkins County, \<u York, .Ma> 7 

 P. i Hi (Alexander). 



Allotype, . . with the type. 



Paratopotypes, L5 o" 9 ; paratype, I ■'. neai Johnstown, Pulton 

 County, New York. August L9, L916 (Alexandei 



Type in the collection of t he allt.hof. 



Tin- i- the species figured l>> Needham under the name ienuijn 

 the real hiniij,, being -hown in the -am- work, Plate 19, fig 



17 Twenty-third Repoii of the New N PI 18, I 



(1907 




."I I PROI EEDINGS 01 THE LI \m:\n 01 [< >Ct., 



The types occurred rather abundantly along a small woodland 

 in and wen- found commonly resting on the trunks of sugar 

 maples, swarming out Into the air :it shorl intervals. The species 

 occurred with the following crane-fly associates: 



nvbila, 0. rubella, Erioptera septemtrionis, 

 Limnophila brevifurca, Adelphomyia minvta, Ula elegans, Pedida 

 nata and Tipula deji eta. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) rubescens sp. n. 



Bead light silvery gray : mesonol am reddish, sparsely gray pruinose, 

 with three indistincl brown stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the 

 hypopygium bright yellow: wings nearly hyaline; cell tti ses£ 

 Rs arcuated, rather elongate; cell tst Mi open by the atrophy of ra; 



Cell M moderate. 



Mali . Length, 5.3 ."»..") mm.; wing, 0.3-6.6 mm. 



Female. — Length 5.5 5.6 mm.; wins, 0.5-7 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennse with the basal segments 

 brown, sparsely grayish pruinose; prsescutum with three indistinct 

 biown stripes, lateral stripes less evident, median stripe narrowed 

 behind and becoming indistinct at the suture; scutum with the lobes 

 brownish gray, the median area dull reddish yellow; scutellum pale 

 brownish yellow, gray pruinose; postnotum light reddish with a gray 

 bloom. Pleura light reddish with a sparse gray bloom. Halteres 

 pale, the knobs brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light 

 brownish yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow, the latter a 

 little darkened towards their tips; tarsi brown. Wings nearly 

 hyaline, stigma very pale to indistinct, veins dark brown. Venation 

 (Plate WVIII, fig. 58): Sc long, ending at nearly midlength of R t ' f 

 distance between S& and the origin of the sector about twice the 

 length of the latter; Rs rather long, strongly arcuated, but not 

 angulated; cell Ri sessile, sometimes broadly sessile; cross-vein r at 

 the tip of /t\; cell tst M t open by the atrophy of m; cell Mi present, 

 about one-half as deep as cell M . 



Abdomen pale yellowish brown, the lateral margins more yellowish, 

 the hypopygium bright yellow. 



Habitat. — Northea-tern I'uited States. 



Holotype, o", Simmons woods, GloversviUe, Fulton County, New 

 York, altitude '.too feet, June 22, 1916 (Alexander). 

 Allotype, 9, topotypic, .June 12, 1916. 

 Paratopotypes, 20 d" 9 , June 9, 1914; June 12 to 22, 1916. 

 Type in the collection of the author. 

 The ecological condition- under which this species lives have been 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



discussed in the second part of this series of papers 18 under the 

 account of Tipula cayuga Alexander. A less detailed notice of the 

 dates taken with the type will be found in the presenl paper 

 under the account of Limnophila edwai 



rily PTYCHOPTERID^E. 

 BITTACOMORPHA K 



Bittacomorpha v id; Lou. 1. in and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine 



:m<l Journal of Science, vol. 6, p. 281 ' 



ilTTAO IMI IRPHE1 I \ subgen. n. 



Agrees with Bittacomorpha s. s., bu1 the apical cells of the wings 

 with a sparse, strong pubescence, including the tip of • •••ll Sc, all 

 nt' 2nd /,':, tip- of /,' . /,'.. /,' and 2nd M; in V>. sackeni Roder, the 

 pubescence is even more extensive, including the end of cell (', first 

 /.' . all of <-''ll Ra, almosl the outer half of cells L' 3 and /.'.. ami the 

 ends '»f 2nd M and ' / : metatarsi of the legs not swollen. A cor- 

 related character i- the lark of a white ring near the base of the 

 metatarsi. 



Type of tin- subgenus, Bittacomorpha jom >■/ Johnson. 



There arc four species of this genus now known, two belonging to 

 each subgenus, and their general distribution, seasonal and \ 

 graphical, may be summarized as follow.-: 



Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorpha) clavipes I 



The "Phantom Crane-fly" is one of our commonest and best- 

 known species. It i- a fly of the Canadian-Transitional t<> the 

 Austral /one- and has a wide range throughoul America easl of the 

 Rockies, from Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and 

 Newfoundland south to Florida, west to Manitoba and South Dakota. 

 In New York ami New England it i- on the wing from May 17 to 

 September 23, being common throughoul the summer; in the southern 

 pari of its range n appears as earlj as February. The flies are 

 abundant in low, wel swales, 9wamps, and along lakes and ponds. 

 The curious rust-red lava with an extensile breathing tube is as 

 remarkable as the adult fly. 



Bittacomorpha Bittacomorpha occidentals Udi 



Western United States, ranging from Washington to California, 

 the latter records being for mid-May. 



Bittacomorpha Bittacomorphella) jonesi I 



\ fly of the < lanadian life-zone of the northeastern I Inited States 



P | III \. W.I •• - l'llll.\!><.l.l III \, 



p, 186, September, 191S 




546 PBO< ii DINGS 01 THE kl \m.\n 01 |< >ct., 



ranging from Maine, Nei» Hampshire and Vermont Boutfa (in the 

 mountains) to Mi. Toxoway, North Carolina, the type-locality. 



In New York and N<\\ England it flies from June 11 to August 31, 

 being quite numerous in suitable Localities throughout the latter 

 half «»f June and all of .Inly. It i- found in cool, shady spots, usually 

 near running water <>r springs, being very often found in small dark 

 ravines or along shaded runs. They frequently lurk under dark 

 culverts after the fashion of Dolichopeza and Oropeza. 



Bittaoomorpha (Bittacomorphella) sackenii BAder. 



Northwestern United State- ami western Canada, ranging from 

 Queen Charlotte [sle, British Columbia, south to California ami 

 easl to Colorado. The records indicate that the insect is on the 

 wing in . I une and early July. 



The species of Bittacomorpha may he separated by the following 

 key: 



1. Wings with the apical cells without a strong pubescence; meta- 



tarsi swollen and white basally. (Subgen. Bittacomorpha.) 2 



Willis with the apical cells with a sparse strong pubescence; 

 metatarsi not swollen, and without white near the base. 

 (Subgen. Bittacomorphella.) . ... 3 



2. Dorsum of thorax deep velvety black with a white median line; 



cell R t of the wings one-third as long as R*. (Eastern North 



America.) clavipes Fabricius. 19 



Dorsum of thorax shiny black without a white median line; cell 

 Ri of the wings one-half as long as R h . (Western United 

 State-.) occidentalis Aldrich. 20 



3. Tibiae and metatarsi dark brownish black without white (except 



the extreme tip of the latter in some specimens), segments 

 two and three of the tarsi pure white. (Western North 



America.) sackenii Koder. 21 



Tibiae black with a broad white band beyond the base; metatarsi 

 with more or less white at the tip, broadest on the fore legs, 

 narrowest on the hind legs; segments two and three of the 



tarsi pure white. (Northeastern United States.) 



jonesi Johnson. 22 



Explanation of Plates XXV to XXXI. 



Plate XXV. Fig. 1. -Wing of Geranomyia canadensis Westwood. 

 J-'iK- -• — Wing of a. distincta Doane. 



intermedia Walker. 

 Fin. 4. — Wing ; ken. 



Fig. 5. — Wing of G. tibialis Loew. 



I Ekbricius; Spec, [nsect., vol. 2. p. tut < L781 I. 

 icomorpha occidentalis Aldrich; Psyche, vol. 7. p. 201 (1895 . 

 %ii Etoder; Wien. Entom. Zcit., p. 230 1890 - 

 n Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson; Psyche, vol. 12, pp. 75, 76 (1905). 




1916.] XATllUL -i 11 \< ES "1 PHILADELPHIA. 547 



—Wing of G. lachrymalia Alexandi r. 

 —Wing uf G. rostrola Say. 



" I -p. n. 



—Wing o ' ;'"• Loew. 



, — Wing of l> ana Osten Sacl 



. — Wirifj of D Osten Sacken. 



\\ ing uf D. wii -p. n. 



-Win<; of Rhampkidia W cquart. 



— Wing of /.' ■ n. 



-Wing of Teucholabis c<>ini>l> xa Osten Sacken. 

 — Wing of T. lucida Alexander. 



Plate XXVI. -Fig. 17. — Wing of Gono lexanderi Johnson. 



Fig. 18. -W ing of G L I toane. 



I'm. 19.- Wing of G I. icandaga Alexander. 



Fig 20 -Wing of G. I. pleuralis Williston. 



_ 21. Wing of G I. puer Alexander. 



Fig. 22.— Wing uf G. I. manca Osten Sacken. 

 Fig 23 W ■ _ Alexander. 



Fig. 24 Wii ■■■!■' ' >-'i-ii Sacken. 



Fig. 25. -Wing of G. [G.) calijornica Alexander. 



Fig. 26. -Wing of G G dphurella <>-tni Sack 



I _ 27 '■' _ G G.) flavibasis Alexander. 



v, ing of G G ■ res Alexander. 



Fig. 29. Wing ol G G cognaleUa Osl 3 en. 



I _ 30. Wing of G G acensis Alexander. 



Fig. 31. Wing of G G filicauda Alexander. 



Fig. 32. -Wing of G. G gala Doane. 



I _ ... -Wing of G*. G tbdnerea Osten Sacken. 



Plate XXVII. Fig. '-'A. — Wing of Eriopl -p. a. 



Wing nt E. If< ocyphona) taniilla Bp. n. 

 I _ .'■ Wing "i A. Empeda nyctops Bp. a. 

 I g :;7 Wing of MolophUtts fidto ■ a. 



I _ 38 W i r i jz: o! .U. nova-i ■; -p. n. 



I . 39 Wing uf Af. ut • ' d Sacken. 



I | in Wing of Empedomorpha empedoidei Alexander 

 I g 11. Wing nt' Rhabdomastix {Sacandaga) monticola -p. n. 

 I g 12, Wing of R. S. caudata Lundb 

 I - 13 Wing of /.'. S.) flava Alexander. 

 Fig 14. Wing of Pterochionea bradleyi -\>. a. 

 15. W ing of Limnophila edwardi Bp. Q. 



I _ Mi. \\ ii j Ml Bp. ii. 



Plate XXVII] I ig 17. Wing of Tricyphona - Osten Sacken 



18 W ing of T. cal S ken. 

 Fig. 19 Wing of 3 Osl S ken. 



50 Wing of I ■ hyperborea Osten Sacl 

 51. Wing nt T. kalahdin Alexander. 

 \\ ing nf T. ii n ken. 



Wing nt' '/'. paludicola Bp 

 54. Wing of Rhaphidolatn {Rhapl <'ii. 



Wing nt" It. i Pit ctrot 

 \\ ing nt' /.'. (.Rhaphidolabi* (enuipet Osten Sacken. 



R p ii 



\\ ing of /•' /■' ■ ii 



I ■ i \ i > \ \ I \ I ig 59 Hypopygjura of ' dexanderi; 



dorsal aspect of the pleural appendages; d dorsal appendage; v ven- 

 tral append 



Alexander; dorsal aspecl »f the 

 pleural append 




548 PRO< BEDINGS OF THE \< IDEM1 01 



Hypopygium of G. nderi; ventral asped of the pleural 



5< 3; lettering a: in Fig. 59. 



ventral at the pleural 



appendages; lettering as in Fig 



Kjpygium of G. L. puer; dorsal aspect of right pleurite; 

 /' </^- = penis-guard. 



um of G. (L.) manca; dorsal aspecl of ri^ht pleurite; 

 fettering as in Fig. 63. 



65 Hypopygium of G. (L.) imnioi; Lateral aspect; lettering 



66. Hypopygium of 6. (Gonomyia) califomica; dorsal aspecl 1 

 righl pleurite; lettering as u I and 63. 



Hypopygium of G. G. califomica; ventral aspect; lettering 



Fig. 68. Hypopygium 1 ] anda; dorsal aspecl of the righl pleurite; 

 ring as in Fig. 59. 



69. Hypopygium of G. (G. blanda; ventral aspect of the ventral 

 appendaj pleurite. 



70. Hypopygium oi G. G sulphureUa; dorsal aspecl oi the righl 

 pleurite. , 



Fig. 71. — Hypopygium of G. (G. florens; dorsal aspect 01 the righl pleurite; 



/: = dorsal fleshy knob; <l = firsl or dorsal appendage; 18 = second 



pleural appendage; 3 = third or ventral pleural appendage. 

 Fig : pygiumofG. (G.) florens; lateral aspect of the penis-guard. 



73, -Hypopygium oi I ignateUa; lateral asped of the penis-guard. 



Fig! 71. -Hypopygium oi G G.) cognateUa; dorsal aspect of the right 



pleurite; lettering a- in Fig. 71. 

 Fig. 75— Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognateUa; lateral asped oi the pleurite; 



Lettering as in Fig. 71. 



Plate XXX. — Fig. 7i>. ^Hypopygium of Gonomyia {Gonomyin) flavibasis; 

 dorso-lateral aspect. 



Pig, 77. Hypopygium of G. (G.) flavibasis; ventral aspect of the pleural 



append.;. 



7s. -Hypopygium of G. G.) flavibasis; apex of the ventral appendages. 

 79! Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensi*; pleural appendages, ventral 



Fig. s ". -Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensis; ventral asped of the left 

 oi the penis-guard ami the gonapophyses; a, b, c = horns of the 

 i cylinder. . 



Fig. 81. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) filicauda; dorsal asped oi thenghl pleurite; 



T/ = dorsal pleural appendage; ti - ventral pleural appendage. 

 Fin. 82. -Hypopygium oi licauda; lateral aspect of the penis-guard. 



Hypopygium of G. G. ti&anerea; dorsal aspect of the right 

 pleurite; lettering as in Fig. 81. 

 Fig. 84. -Hypopygium of <l. (G.) ■■nihcut<r<<i; ventral aspect ol the lett side 



of the penis-guard. 

 Fin. v.. -Hypopygium of G. G ubcinerea; dorsal pleural appendage. 



Hypopygium -if G. (G.) awpwiiia Alexander; dorsal aspect of the 

 righl pleurite: lettering as in Fig. 81; a.t. = anal tube. 

 Fig. ><7. -Hypopygium of G. G. virgata; dorsal aspect ol the nghl pleurite; 

 Lettering as in Fig. 81; <? = second pleural appendage. 



Hypopygium of a. (GO """-oh,,- Alexander: ventral aspecl of the 

 penis^guard and the gonapophyses; p.gd. = penis-guard; a = subtending 

 arm; g = gonapophyse. 



Hypopygium of a. (G.) unicolor; dorsal aspect ol the nghl pleurite; 

 fettering a- in Fig. 81. . 



Fig. 90. Hypopygium of a ', mexicana Alexander; ventral aspecl <>t 

 the penis-guard; Lettering a- in Fig. 88. , 



Hypopygium ol 1 exicana; dorsal aspect of the nghl pleurite, 



tering as in Figs. 81 and 87. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



Plate XXXI with the •• 



middle leg rem 



-Antenna of Pierockionea brad! 

 i-L — Hypopygium o righl 



pleurite. 

 Fig. 95. — Bypopygium 

 ventral pleural hunk. 



I ..inn of M. j dton* • 



97. — Bypopygium of Erioptera laticeps; dorsal aspect; 9t = 



lops; doi : a. b, c = pli 



t 




550 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHE 11 \ni\n 01 [NOV., 



NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN BEES OF THE GENUS ANDRENA FROM 



WEST OF THE 100TH MERIDIAN CONTAINED IN THE COLLECTIONS 



OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY HENRI L. VIERECK 



The following descriptions are contributions toward a monograph 

 of the Pan-American species of Andrena. 



The proportions are in terms of divisions of a disc micrometer, 

 with KM) divisions to 1 mm., used in a Spencer Lens Co. binocular 



with 10 \ ocular and 40 mm. objective, each division equals nearly 



Andrena (Andrena) azygos ">•« species. 



Type. — No. 4,010. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality.— Cloudcroft, New Mexico, June 16, 1902 (H. L. 

 Viereck). 



Related to -4. (A.) asmi Viereck. 



Male.- — Length 8.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with ochreous 

 hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 45 : 64, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 32 : 22, temples produced, almost right 

 angular, the angle apparently opposite middle of eye, malar line : 

 joint 3 of antennae :: 3 : 7, elevated portion of malar space much 

 shorter than the depressed portion, head covered with ochreous 

 hairs except along the inner eye margin, upper eye margin, and 

 outer eye margin above the middle of temples and on the front where 

 the hairs are black, front indistinctly punctured, dullish, reticulated 

 and finely Longitudinally striate, ocellocular line : ocelloccipital 

 line :: 14 : 5, face shining, distinctly punctured, its punctures from 

 one to three puncture widths apart, clypeus nearly planate, clypeus 

 apparently slightly concave near apex, more shining and more 

 distinctly punctured than the face, not elevated directly above the 

 apical margin, clypearea wanting, sculpture of the clypeus not 

 hidden by the moustache, labrarea with a broad rounded emargina- 

 tion. polished, its width at base : length down the middle :: 7 : 3, 

 width at base : greatest length :: 7 : 4, width at apex : length down 

 the middle :: : 3, labrarea at base apparently half as wide as the 

 labium, the latter with a fringe of ochreous hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 

 \ :: 7 : 8. joint 4 and following joints from a little more than one 




11)10.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55] 



and one-half times as long as thick to nearly twice as long as thick, 

 dullish, flagel almosl straight in outline, antenna? blackish through- 

 out, mandibles nearly typical, rather slender, extending beyond the 

 miter edge of the labrum and nearly to end of the basal third of its 

 fellow, black except for the apical fourth which is dull dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of dark, 

 dull, ochreous hairs, hairs of dorsulum seeminglj shorter than hair 

 of ine>opleura\ dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated and sparsely 

 punctured, the punctures indistind ami from two to five or more 

 puncture widths apart, mostly the latter, aotauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurae dullish with pale ochreous hair- throughout, 

 finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pit-, that are 

 mostly three or more pit width- apart, scutel hairy mid sculptured 

 much like the dorsulum, partly polished, partly sculptured like the 

 dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture i- denser, tegulse dark brown, polished, wing base 

 mostly pale stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma brownish 

 strajnineous with m blackish tinge, resl of veins stramineous with a 

 blackish tinge, firsl recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 



cell beyond the middle and ;i little nearer to the second trail-'. 



cubitus than the fipsi transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, nervulus interstitial forming an acute angle with the firsl 

 abscissa of the discoidaJ vein, let:- blackish brown excepting the tarsi 

 and hind tibia? which are rather dark brown, legs covered with 

 ochreous hairs, hind metatarsi al mosl hardly wider than mid- 

 metatarsi and nearly half a- wide ;i- hind tibiae a1 apex of the latter; 

 propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, with irregular rugs 

 on basal half, finely reticulated on apical half, rounded off al apex, 



of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse hut with 

 -mailer pit- and covered with dark ochreous hair, propodeal pleura? 

 sculptured apparently like the mesopleure, the sculpture not hidd< □ 

 by the uniformly distributed ochreous hair.-; abdomen with it< 



mi -hiuiiiL r , almosl polished, finely reticulated and indistinctly 

 punctured, the punctures mostly t luce or four puncture widths apart, 

 firsl tergite, with erect pale ochreous hair-, second and thud tergites 

 with appressed ochreous hair-, second tergite with its elevated portion 

 down the middle ; depressed portion :: 20 : 6, third and fourth 

 tergites with brownish appressed hairs on the elevated portion, fifth 

 tergite with it- basal blackish portion covered with poorly defined 

 punctures thai are as man} as four puncture width- apart, real oi 

 fifth tergite and exposed portion of sixth and seventh tergites with a 




PKO( EEDINGS OF THE \< \l>i.\n 01 [NOV., 



stramineous margin, anal process narrow, almosl parallel sided and 

 shallowly emarginate at apex, tergum with rather inconspicuous 

 hair- thai arc supplemented on the sides of the sec. ml. third and 

 fourth tergites by tliin ochreous apical hair hands, hair at apex of 

 abdomen of a golden hue. 



Andrena (Andrena caliginoca' now sp. 



Type. No. 1,039. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Ti/jn Locality. — San Jose, California. (Hold.) 



Related to A. (A..) decussata Viereck. Probably synonymous 

 with A. (A.) nigra Provancher. 



Female. — Length 10.5 mm.; bocbi black, covered throughout with 

 black or blackish brown hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 72 : 88. axial line : temporal line :: 37 : 21, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 4 : lo, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 5 : 0, elevated portion of malar space distinctly 

 shorter than depressed portion, front rather distinctly, longitudinally 

 Btriato-reticulate, not elevated into a welt along the fovea, fovea at 

 most : ocellocular line :: 12 : 16, foveal band virtually wanting, 

 distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 6 : 16, fovea 

 gradually attenuated below its middle and continued to a point 

 apparently above the antenna! line, fovea filled with dark seal-brown 

 hairs, face mostly nearly polished, partly indistinctly reticulate, 

 with distinct punctures that are mostly almost adjoining or one 

 puncture width apart, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical 

 margin, convex, not so closely sculptured as the face, the punctures 

 larger and well defined, clypearea present, rather poorly defined 

 throughout, clypeus thinly hairy, its sculpture not at all hidden by 

 hairs, labrarea subemarginate, its width at base : length down the 

 middle :: 8 : 4. width at apex : length down the middle :: 6 : 4, 

 length : width at base :: 5 : 8, labrarea at base nearly 

 one-third as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of dark 

 brownish hairs, labrum with a median longitudinal crista between 

 the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 3 of antennae : 4 4- 

 5 :: 15 : 10, joint 4 a little thicker than long, joint 5 a little longer 

 than thick, succeeding joints a little Longer than thick, except joint 

 12 which is distinctly longer than thick, antennae blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, robust, extending nearly to the outer edge of the 

 labrarea, black except for the apical third which is dark reddish, 



'This specific name was proposed for this species by Prof. W . M. Davis. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of long 

 slender hairs which arc as long on the dorsulum as on the mesopleurse, 

 dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, punctured, the puncture- mostly 

 from adjoining to three-puncture width- apart, notauli represented 

 by a shining line, mesopleurae sculptured somewhal like the dorsulum 

 but not so closely or distinctly reticulated, scutel nearly polished but 

 hairy and punctured much like the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and 

 sculptured much like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is 

 mostly denser and less distinct, tegulse dark brown, polished, wing 

 base partly blackish In-own. subcosta blackish In-own. stigma dark 

 In-own. rest of veins dull brownish stramineous, or blackish In-own. 

 firsl recurrent vein received by the second submargina] cell far 

 beyond the middle and nearly interstitial with the second transvi 

 cubitus, nervulus received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and 

 forming ;iM acute angle with the firsl abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 membrane with a uniform blackish brown tinge, legs blackish except 

 for the small joints of the tarsi which arc more or less dark In-own, 

 legs covered with black or blackish brown hair-, scopa typical, it- 

 hair- black or blackish brown throughout, hind metatarsi at most 

 apparently a little wider than mid metatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure poorly defined, dullish and finely reticulated, slightly 

 rugose a1 base, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat 

 like the dorsulum bu1 qo1 so distinctly punctured, and covered with 

 similar hair, propodeal pleura' shining, reticulate, with sparse -hallow 

 punctures and almost hidden by the brownish and blackish floccus; 

 abdomen with it- tergum shining and sculptured much like the 

 propodeal pleura' bul with apparently more distincl and smaller 



punctures from three to -ix or more puncture widths apart on t he 

 first tergite, the puncture- hardly closer on the succeeding tergite, 

 first, second, third and fourth ti rgites with an apical, blackish brown 

 margin, Becond tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: L8 : 1". fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its 

 punctures closer together and coarser than on the other 

 pygidium black, nearly planate, with a -hallow furrow on each side, 

 nearly pointed at apex, tergum with thin, inconspicuous, erect hair- 

 that are much longer on the first and second tergites than on the 

 third and fourth, fimbria blackish In-own. 



Andrena (Andrena Candida tramosern II 



Type, No. 1,011. The Academy of Natural Scene- of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Tuj" /. Southern < lalifornia. \ 




.V> \ PROCEEDINGS OF mi. \< IDEM! OF [Nov., 



/' de. Length 10 mm.; essentially as in A. (A.) Candida Smith 



from which it differs chiefly in the fovese reaching .it most to the 

 antenna] line instead of to the clypeal line as in typical Candida. 

 In this race there is no black hair whatever on the temples. < Jlypeus 

 down the middle mostly reticulate on the basal half and mostly 

 transversely striate on the apical half. 



In a paratopotype the clypeus is almost polished on its apical half. 



Andrena lAndrena) complicata- hi m sp< 



Type. No. 1,042. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Tjijn Locality- San Jose", California. (Hold.) 



Related to .1 . (A.) trizonata (Ashmead) and .1 . (A.) Candida Smith, 

 and may prove to be a race of the latter. 



Female— Length 8 mm.; body bluish, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous almost white hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 56 : 67, axial line : temporal line :: 27 : 16, malar line : joint 

 ;; of antenna? :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 1 ; t, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, 

 head, covered with whitish and black hairs, the latter present along 

 the inner eye margin, on most of the front, vertex and upper end of 

 tempi.-, and along the upper two-thirds of the outer eye margin, 

 front rather distinctly, longitudinally striate, not elevated into a 

 welt along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 6 : 13, fovea! 

 band wanting, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: 7 : 13, fovea nearly parallel sided, not attenuated below its 

 middle bu1 conl inued to a point apparently a little below the antenna! 

 line, fovea filled with dark seal brown hairs above the middle, with 

 pale hairs below the middle, face mostly nearly polished, indistinctly 

 reticulate, with indistinctly defined punctures that are mostly as 

 many as two puncture widths apart, face with a lateral, coppery 

 margin, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical margin, coppery 

 and blackish with a basal bluish margin, convex, sculptured like 

 the face except that the punctures are larger and well defined and 

 not so close together, clypearea wanting, clypeus with. its basal half 

 shining reticulate, it- apical half nearly polished, clypeus thinly 

 hairy its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs, labrarea rounded, its 

 width at base : length down the middle :: 10 : 3, labrarea at base a 

 little more than half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe 

 of pale brown hairs, labrum apparently sculptureless and structure- 



2 This specific name was proposed for this species years ago by Prof . W. M. 

 Davis. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



less between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint :•> of 

 antennae : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 8, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding 

 joints as thick as long or a little longer than thick except joint 12 

 which is distinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, extending to the outer edge of the labrarea, black 



pt for the apical half which i- mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of pale ochreous almost 

 white hairs which arc as long on the dorsulum, where they are thinlj 

 mixed with black hairs, as on the mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and punctured much like the face, notauli repre- 

 sented by a shining line, mesopleurse with almost whitish hairs 



pt along the upper margin where there is an admixture of black 

 hair-, sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum 1 >ut more closely and 

 less distinctly punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the 

 dorsulum except that mosl of it- hair- are Mack, and the anterior 

 margin is nearly polished, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the 

 dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser and less distinct and 

 the hairs are all whitish, tegular dark brown, partly nearly polished, 

 wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 dark brown, it- lower margin blackish, rest of veins dull stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, lir-t recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell in or before the middle and nearly one and one-hall' 

 time- a- far from the lir-t transverse cubitus a- the first transverse 

 cubitus is from the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus received bj 

 the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute angle with 

 the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane with a uniformly 

 brownish tinge, legs blackish except for the -mall joint- of the tarsi 

 which are more or less dark brown, let;- covered with whitish ami 

 den hairs, scopa typical, its hairs silvery, the hair- at base above 

 decidedly darkened, hind metatarsi at mosl apparently a little 

 narrower than mid metatarsi; /</"/>(»/< um with it- enclosure poorly 

 defined, dullish and finely reticulated, it- basal half with a lew faint 

 rugae and :i faint median longitudinal raised line, rest of upper face 

 of propodi um sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse, and covered 



with line pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleura' reticulated and with 

 sparse -hallow puncture- that are nearh a- close together a- I he 



clypeal puncture-, ami almost hidden by the almost whitish Ho. 

 abdomen with it- tergum shining, nearly polished, feebl) reticulate 

 and finely, sparsely punctured, the puncture- mostly from four to 



-i\ puncture width- apart on the first tergite, I he puncture- hardi\ 



closer on the succeeding tergites, second, third ami fourth tergites 




556 PROCEEDINGS "i mi: ACADEM1 01 Nov., 



\\ it h a thin, apical, whitish hair band thai Is interrupted in the 

 middle of the second and third tergites, apical edge of first, second, 

 third and fourth tergites with a pair stramineous border, second 

 tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed por- 

 tion :: L6 : 8, fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its punctures coarser 

 than on the ether tergites, pygidium nearly planate, almosl pointed 

 at apex, ter.miin with inconspicuous, pale, uearly erect hairs in 

 addition to the hair bands, the hairs of the sides of the firsl and 

 second tergite much longer than the hair- of the succeeding tergites, 

 fimbria (lark brown. 



Andrena Andrena crista ta 



Type. No. t,012. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



ality. Nevada ill. K. Morrison). 



Related to .1. (A.) moesta dlbihirta (Ashmead), 

 emale.- Length 10 mm.; body black, mostlj covered with pale 

 ochreous almost white hair-; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 56 : 70. axial line : temporal lino :: 30 : 18, malar line : joint 

 3 of antenna- :: 1 : 10, ocelloccipital line : greatesl diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 5.5 : 5, elevated portion of malar space nearly as 

 long as depressed portion, head covered with white hairs, front 

 rather indistinctly. Longitudinally striate, not elevated into a welt 

 along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 10 : 14, foveal 

 hand present and at upper end of the inner eye margin : ocellocular 

 line:: 1 : 14. distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: \\ : 14, fovea attenuated below its middle where it is apparently 

 only one-half or a little more than half as wide a- tin greatest width of 

 the fovea, the hitter continued to a point apparently a little below the 

 antenna! line, fovea filled with dark seal-brown hairs, fovarea wanting, 

 vertex and temple- along tin upper edge of the eye with Mack 

 hair-, face mostly polished, partly indistinctly reticulate, with indis- 

 tinct punctures that are a- many a- five or more puncture widths 

 apart. clypeUS slightly elevated above the apical margin, convex. 

 sculptured like the face except that the puncture- are larger and 

 well defined, clypearea present hut poorly defined, clypeus thinly 

 hairy it- sculpture not at all hidden by hair-, labrarea subemarginate 

 it- width at base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, width a1 apex : 

 length down the middle :: 7 : 3, labrarea at base nearly half as wide 

 a- the labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden hair-, labrum with a 

 median longitudinal crista between the labrarea and apical edge of 

 labrum, joint :; of antennae : 4 + •"> :: '•» : 8, joint- \ and 5 thicker 




1916.] NATURAL S< I! \< BS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



than long, the suc< ding joints as thick as long or little longer than 



thick excepl joints 11 and 12 which arc distinctly longer than thick. 

 antennae blackish throughout, mandibles Typical, robust, extending 

 to the outer edge of the labrarea, Mack except for the apical fourth 

 and inner edge which are clear dark reddish, palpi nearly typical: 

 thorax covered with an abundance of pale ochreous almosi white 

 hairs which arc as long on the dorsulum where they are darker than 

 the almosi whitish hair- on the mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, finely 

 reticulated and punctured like the face bu1 more distinctly so, 

 Qotauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurse with almosi 

 whitish hair-, sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum bu1 no1 

 closely <>r distinctly punctured, scute) hairy and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsuhun 

 except that the sculpture is denser and less distinct, tegulae dark 

 brown, polished, wing ha-'' partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins dull stramin- 

 eous, with a blackish tinge, firsl recurrenl vein received by the 

 :id submargmal cell beyond the middle and nearly a- near to the 

 nd transverse cubitus a- the firsl transverse cubitus is t . . 

 stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the firsl abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish 

 except tor t he tarsi a nd hi nd tibiae which are more or less dark brown, 

 legs covered with brownish golden and ochreous hair-, scopa typical, 



it- hair- of the lower half pale ochreous, almost white, of it- upper 

 half with a brownish hue. haii- at base above decidedly darkened, 

 hind metatarsi a1 mosl apparently a little narrower than mid mi 

 tarsi; propodeum with it- enclosure poorly defined, dullish ami finely 

 reticulated, resl of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat 

 like the mesopleurse but with -mailer punctures, and covered with 

 finer pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleura' with sparse -hallow punc- 

 ture- ami almost hidden by the almost white floccus; abdomen with 

 it- tergum shining ami sculptured much like the face, the punctures 

 from two lo -i\ or more puncture width- apart on the first tergite, 

 the punctures hardlj closer on the succeeding ti >nd, third 



and fourth tergites with an apical, whitish hair band that i- inter- 

 rupted in the middle, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth 



tergites with a stramineous border, second tergite with it- elevated 



portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 16 : '.», fifth lo 



shining, reticulate, it- punctures closer together than on the other 



tergi . idiuiu nearly planate, with a shallow furrow od each 



ride, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with inconspicuous, pale} nearly 



erect hair- in addition to the hair hand-, fimbria dark seal-brown. 




PROCEEDINGS "l THE \< \l>i\i\ 01 Nov.. 



Andrena Andrena friesei ae* -\- 



No. 1,035. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Tji/x Locality. Southern California II. K. Morrison). 



Related to .1. .1. fulvihirta Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female. Length 11 nun.; body black, mostly covered with bright 

 tawny or ochreoife hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 62 : 77. axial line : temporal line :: 31 : 19, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 15 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatesl diameter of lateral 

 ocellus :: 7 : 5, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head 

 covered with tawny and black hairs, front longitudinally striate, 

 not elevated into a writ along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular 

 line :: 10 : 17). fovea! hand presenl and at upper end of the inner eye 

 margin : ocellocular line :: 1.5 : 15, distance between fovea and 

 ocelli : ocellocular line :: <i : 15, fovea attenuated below its middle, 

 cuneiform and continued to a point well below the antenna! line. 

 fovea filled with pale hair- along the inner eye margin and lower half, 

 ami witli very dark seal-brown hairs on the upper half, in addition 

 with some blackish hairs, fovarea wanting, vertex and temples along 

 the upper edge of the eye with black hairs, face dullish, finely indis- 

 stinctly reticulate, with indistincl punctures that are mostly as 

 many as four puncture widths apart, clypeus distinctly elevated 

 above the apical margin, slightly convex, nearly planate, sculptured 

 'ike the face except that the punctures are closer together, clypearea 

 barely represented by a median longitudinal shining streak, clypeus 

 thinly hairy it- sculpture nearly hidden laterally by hairs, lahrarea 

 truncate its width at base : length down the middle :: 9 : 5, width 

 at apex : length down the middle : : "> : 5, labrarea at base nearly 

 half as wide a- the labium, the latter with a fringe of brownish hairs, 

 labrum apparently -culptureless and without a definite structure 

 between the lahrarea and apical edge of labrum, joinl :•} of antenna' : 4 

 -4- 5 :: 9 : 8. joint \ and 5 thicker than long, the succeeding joints 

 a- thick a- long or a little longer than thick except joints 11 and 12 

 which are distinctly longer than thick, antennae blackish throughout. 

 mandibles typical, robust, extending a little beyond the outer edge 

 of the lahrarea. black except for the apical third which is dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of tawny 

 hair- which are a- long on the dorsulum where they are darker than 

 the almost ochreous hairs on the mesopleura, dorsulum dullish, 

 red with reddish hair-, finely reticulated and punctured like the 

 face but not so distinctly, more closely, notauli represented by a 




1916.] NATURAL SI »F PHILADELPHIA. 



shining line, mesopleurae with almosl ochreous hair-, sculptured 

 somewhat like the dorsulum, scute! hairy and sculptured like the 

 dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser and less distinct, tegulse blackish brown, 

 shining, reticulated, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta 

 blackish brown, stigma pair brownish stramineous bounded by dark 

 brown vein-, resl of veins thill stramineous with a blackish tinge, 

 firsl recurrenl vein received by the second submarginal cell in or a 

 little beyond the middle and nearly one and one-half times as far 

 from the second transverse cubitus as the firsl transverse cubitus is 

 to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus nearly interstitial and 

 forming an acute angle with the firsl abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 membrane uniformly tinged with brown, legs blackish, covered with 

 brownish hairs excepting most of hind trochanters, coxse and femora 

 on which the hairs are rather ochreous, scopa atypical, its hair- mosi ly 

 mucb shorter than half the greatesl width of hind tibiae and nearly 

 erect, appearing brownish except along the edges where the hairs 

 are pale, nearly ochreous, hair- at base above decidedly darkened, 

 hind metatarsi presumably at mosi apparently a little narrower 

 than mid metatarsi; propodeum with it- enclosure poorly denned, 

 dullish and finely reticulated, rest of upper face <>f propodeum sculp- 

 tured somewhal like the mesopleurae but less shining, and covered 

 with finer pale tawny hair, propodeal pleurae with a few -hallow 

 punctures, finely reticulated, and almosl hidden by the ochreous 

 floccus; abdomen with it- tergum dullish, appearing almosl impunc- 

 tate, the punctures mostly from two to four puncture widths apart 

 on the firsl tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding 

 tergites, second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, whitish hair 

 band that is interrupted in the middle of the second and third, apical 

 edge of first, second, third and fourth tergites with a whitish stramine- 

 ous edge, second tergite with it- elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: is ; 9, fifth tergite more shining, reticulate, its 

 punctures distincl compared with the puncture- on the other tergites, 

 pygidium nearly planate, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with 

 inconspicuous dark appressed hairs, in addition to the hair bands, 

 pi laterally on the firsl and second tergite where there are some 

 whitish nearly erect hair-, fimbria dark seal-brown. 



Andrena (Andrena inclinat i 



/ tpe. No. 1,033 Thi Academy of Natural Science- of Phila- 

 delphia. 



1 In- specific hi' pplied to tl R M Davis in the 



seven ties of the pn 'Imu t*entur3 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF nil. \<am:\i\ 01 [Nov.j 



/ e Local ty. i Jalifornia. I No further data. 



Related to A, L. ftdvihirta Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female- Length 12 nun.; body black, abdomen with a Fainl 

 oish tinge, mostly covered with pale ochreoua or whitish hairs; 

 with its facial line : transfacial line :: 70 : 89, axial line : tem- 

 poral line :: 35 : 21, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 2 : 11, ocelloc- 

 cipital line : greatesl diameter of lateral ocellus :: 6 : 5, elevated 

 portion of malar space in part nearly as long as depressed poll ion, 

 head covered with whitish hair-, fronl lather distinctly . longitudinally 

 striate and-finely reticulate, not elevated into a well along the fovea, 

 fovea at most : ocellucular line :: 9 : 18, foveal hand present and at 

 upper end of the inner eye margin : ocellucular line :: 2 : 18, distance 

 between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 8 : 18, fovea slightly 

 attenuated below its middle where ii is nearly as wide as the greatest 

 width of the fovea, the latter continued apparently to the antennal 

 line, fovea filled with whitish hairs, vertex and temples along the 

 upper edge of the eye with whitish hairs, face mostly shining, partly 

 indistinctly reticulate, with indistinct punctures that are from one 

 to three puncture widths apart, clypeus distinctly elevated above 

 the apical margin, convex, sculptured like the face except that the 

 punctures are sparser on the apical half, seemingly transversely 

 reticulated, clypearea wanting, clypeus quite hairy its sculpture 

 nearly hidden by hairs, lahrarea slightly subemarginate, its width 

 at base : length down the middle :: 10 : 3.5, width at apex : length 

 down the middle :: 7 : 3.5, lahrarea at base nearly half as wide as 

 the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale ochreous hairs, labrum 

 punctured between the lahrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 

 antennae : 1 + 5 :: 11 : 9, joints 4 and 5 and following joints 

 except end joint thicker than long, the end joint distinctly longer 

 Than thick, antenna- blackish throughout, mandibles typical, robust, 

 extending nearly to the outer edge of the lahrarea, black except for 

 the apical half which is clear reddish, mandibles at base with a dome- 

 shaped polished bursa, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of pale ochreous almost white hairs which are decidedly 

 shorter and thicker on the dorsulum than the almost whitish hairs 

 on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated and indis- 

 tinctly punctured, the punctures not forming sharp contrast to the 

 reticulation, notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with 

 almost whitish hair-, sculptured Bomewhat like the dorsulum. its 

 lower and anterior aspect . however, more Bhining and more distinctly 

 punctured, scute! hairy and sculptured much like the shining part 




1916.] NATUBAJ - OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



of the mesopleurse, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the scutel 

 pi that the sculpture is denser and less distinct and dullish, 

 lark brown, polished, wing base partly blackish In-own. 

 subcosta blackish brown, stigma and resl of veins 'lull stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell beyond the middle but not as near to the second 

 transverse cubitus as the first tram ibitus i- to tin- stigma on 



the radial vein, nervulus virtually interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane uni- 

 formly tinged with yellowish stramineous except the apical border 

 which has a brownish tinge, legs blackish brown except for the 

 onychii and hind tibia? and rest of hind tarsi which arc more or i - 

 pale brownish, legs red with whitish hair-, scopa typical, its 



hairs almost white excepl a1 base above where they are decidedly 

 darkened, hind metatarsi at most apparently a little narrower than 

 mid metatarsi; propodeum with it< enclosure poorly defined, dullish 

 and finely reticulated, resl of upper face of propodeum sculptured 

 somewhat like the dorsulum, and covered with finer, much longer 

 whitish hair, propodeal pleura' nearly polished, finely reticulate, 

 with a few shallow punctures and almost hidden by the Dearly white 

 floccus; abdomen with it- tergum shining, very finely reticulated and 

 finely, sparsely, indistinctly punctured, the puncture- from two to 

 -i\ or more puncture width- apart on tin- first tergite, the punctures 

 hardly closer on the succeeding tergites, second, third and fourth 



tergites with an apical, whitish hair hand thai i- interrupted in the 



middle of the Becond, apical edge ol first, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a stramineous border, second tergite with it- elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 20 : 9, fifth tergite 

 shining, reticulate, its puncture, closer together than on the other 

 tergites, pygidium nearly planate, with a -hallow furrow on each 

 aide, rounded at apex, tergum with inconspicuous, pale, nearly erect 



hail'-, in addition to the hair hand-, fimbria dark -eal-l n< >wn. 

 Andrena Andrena) jennei ' 



No. 1,013. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Locality. North Yakima, Washington May 20, L903 

 I ned Jenne, No. 60 



Presumably related to A \ ' ockerell. 



Male. Length s mm.: body Mack, mostly covered with pale 



OChreOUB Or whitish hair; Imiil with it- facial line: trail-facial 



line :: i- ial line ; temporal line :: it : 23, temple- produced 




562 PROCEEDINGS 01 nil \i \m\i\ OF [Nov., 



into a Dear carina-like welt and with a rounded aearly righl angle 

 below tlir middle of the eye, and an obtuse rounded angle above 

 the middle of the eye, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: I : 8, elevated 

 portion of malar --pace nearly wanting, head covered with whitish 

 hair- throughout, fronl dullish shining, rather coarsely, sparsely 

 Btriate, ocellocular line : ocelloccipital line:: 16:5, tare shining 

 aearly polished, faintly reticulated and distinctly punctured, the 

 punctures mostly from one to two puncture widths apart, clypeue 

 planate, not elevated directly above the apical margin, sculptured 

 much like the face bu1 more nearly polished, clypearea wanting, 

 sculpture of the clypeus not hidden by the moustache, labrarea 

 subemarginate, width at base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, 

 width at apex : length down the middle :: 4 : 3, labrarea at base 

 apparently a little more than half as wide as the labrum, the latter 

 with a fringe of golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 :: 8 : 4, join! 

 \ a little thicker than long, joint 5 and following joints distinctly 

 longer than thick, ant en me dullish, fiagel, straight in outlhi", antenna' 



blackish throughout, mandibles typical, slender, extending beyond 

 the out ei- edge "f the lalifum, black except for the apical fourth 

 which is dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of pale ochreous or whitish hairs, hairs of dorsulum nearly 

 a- Ion," a- hair of mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, sculptured much 

 like the face hut not so distinctly or closely, notauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurse with pale ochreous hairs throughout, finelj' 

 reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pits, much like the 

 dorsulum, scute) hairy and polished and with a few punctures that 

 are smaller than on the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured 

 much like .the dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser, tegulse 

 dark brownish stramineous, polished, wing base mostly dark brown, 

 subcosta dull light brownish stramineous, stigma hounded by yellow- 

 ish stramineous veins, its' membrane concolorous with the subcosta. 

 resl of veins concolorous with the veins bounding the stigma, mem- 

 brane pale with a faint brownish tinge, recurrent vein received by the 

 second submarginal cell beyond the middle and a little nearer to the 

 second transverse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the 

 stigma on the radial vein, aervulus nearly interstitial, received by the 



median cell, forming an acute angle with the firsl :ili-<i-sa of the 

 median vein, legs blackish brown excepting the tarsi and hind tibial 

 which arc rather pale brownish stramineous, legs covered with pale 

 ochreous hairs, hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than mid meta- 

 tarsi and nearly half a- wide as hind tibiae at apex of tin; latter; 




1916. NATURAL SCIENCES Ol PHILADELPHIA. 563 



propodeum with it- enclosure poorly defined, irregularly coarsely 

 rugose, rounded at apex, resl of upper face indefinitely punctured 

 and coarsely irregularly sculptured between the punctures, covered 

 with pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae shining, finely reticulated 

 along the lower and anterior margin, elsewhere with a loose network 

 of fine rugae in the interstices of which the integumenl is indistinctly 

 reticulate and punctured, partly nearly hidden l»y pale ochreous 

 hair-: abdomen with it- tergum uearly polished and finely punctured. 

 the punctures sparsest on the depressed portion of the firsl tergite, 

 ad, third and fourth tergites uniformly sculptured, partly finely, 

 indistinctly reticulate, with their punctures two to six or seven punc- 

 ture width- apart, second tergite with it- elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: Hi : 7. fifth tergite with it- basal 

 blackish portion covered with poorly defined punctures that are as 

 many as six puncture width- apart, depressed portion of tergites 

 brownish with an apical whitish (due. anal process entire, truni 

 dark brownish at apex, tergum with rather conspicuous pale ochreous 

 hair- that are supplemented on the sides of the second, third and 

 fourth tergites by thin pale ochreous apical hair bands, hair at apex 

 of abdomen pale ochreous. In manipulating the head with a pair 

 of forceps in order to gel a better view of the labrarea the clypeus 

 was almost symmetrically impressed. 



Andrena (Andrena) littlefieldi ■ 



Type. No. 1,014. The Academy ol Natural Science- of Phila- 

 delphia. 



T ijjti Locality - ( lolorado Springs, ( lolorado, April 22, Wbrl bington 

 Littlefield collector (T. D. A. Cockerell). 



I;. ited to .1. .1. polygoni Viereck and Cockerel! and closely 

 l 1 . ■ ploxida Smith. 



Male. Length, 6.5 mm.; body black, covered with whitish hair-: 

 head with it- facial line : transfacial hue ; m 52, axial line : tem- 

 poral line a1 most :: 13 : 1 I, Mack, its pubescence whitish throughout 

 :>t along the lower edge of the labium where it i- golden, clypeal 



puncture- -hallow, not sharply defined, at nio-t two puncture widths 



apart . mostly adjoining or nearly so, the interstices polished, clypearea 

 wanting clypeus convex, mandibles black with reddish castaneous 



ti|>-. palpi typical, joint :; ol antennae : I and 5 



and :; : "» :: <; : 5, antennae blackish brown, labrarea widely, arcuately 



emarginate, greatest length of labrarea nearly twice the shortest 



length and apparently a little more than one-fourth the width of the 



labrarea at it- base, cheek> rounded or subtrapezoidal, widest a 




PRO< EEDING8 01 nil-: U \M.\11 01 [Nov., 



little above middle of eye; thomx black and with whitish inil.r--c.iici'. 

 dorsulum dullish, partly shining, finely reticulate, with scattered 

 punctures that are inconspicuous, -hallow and as much as five 

 puncture widths or more apart near the centre of the dorsulum; 

 scutel sculptured like the centre of the dorsulum bu1 not distinctly 

 reticulated, metanotum densely sculptured, dull, legs pubescenl like 

 the thorax except the tarsi which have the hair- on t he under sui fac< 

 rather golden, tarsi dark brown or blackish except onychii which 

 are dark stramineous, claws brownish stramineous, tegulse and scale 

 over wing base blackish, subcosta blackish brown, resl of vein- and 

 stigma pale yellowish stramineous, basal vein and media darker, 

 brownish, membrane with a yellowish stramineous tinge, aervulus 

 interstitial and forming almosl a righl angle with the first abscissa 

 of the discoidal vein, firsl recurreni vein received a little before the 

 middle of the second submarginaJ cell; propodeum rugulose except 

 at apex of the ill-defined enclosure where it appears to be granular; 

 abdomen black with a greenish tinge, its second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a brownish to brownish-stramineous depressed apical 

 margin, tergites imperfectly reticulate and shining, with shallow 

 punctures aboul as sparsely distributed as on the scutel although 

 not so distinctly defined, pubescence whitish throughout, second, 

 third and fourth tergites poorly fasciate laterally, anal plate brownish 

 stramineous and emarginate like a bird's tail. 



Andrena (.Andrena) lummiorum new Bpi 



Type.- No. 1,034. The Academy of Natural Science- of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Tiijk Locality.- Vancouver, British Columbia, April 10, 1904 

 Et. V. Harvey. No. 602). 



Related to A. (A.) asmi Viereck. 



Female— Length 10.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 67 : 82, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 34 : 20, malar line : joint 3 of antennas 

 :: 1 : 13, elevated portion of malar space as long as the depressed 

 portion, head covered with whitish and black hairs, front longi- 

 tudinally striato-punctate, uo1 elevated along the inner foveal edge, 

 covered with black hair-, vertex with pale ochreous and black hairs 

 fovea at mo-t : ocellocular line :: 11 : 13, foveal band wanting, 

 fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye margin, 

 distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 2 : 13, fo 

 hardly constricted near it- middle where it is apparently nearly as 

 wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the hitter continued below 




1916. NATURAL S< LEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



as a shall >w furrow down to a point apparently nearly on the clypeal 

 line, fovea blackish brown, lower margin of front, supraclypeal areas, 

 clypeus and inner margin of face with whitish hairs mixed with Mack 

 hairs, face shiny, punctured and finely reticulated, the punctures 

 mostly from nearly adjoining to two puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, with a poorly developed 

 median longitudinal welt, more coarsely and more sparsely punctured 

 than the face, clypeaiea poorly defined, clypeus with its basal half 

 dullish reticulate, it- apical half nearly polished, Iain-area subemargi- 

 nate. its width at base : length down the middle :: 11 : I, width at 

 apex : length down the middle :: 6 : 1. labrarea at base nearly 

 two-third- as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of dark 

 hairs, joint 3 of antenna' : 4 -f .") :: L3 : 12, joints 4 and 5 as thick 

 as long, the succeeding joints apparently a little longer than thick. 

 the end joint distinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish through- 

 out, mandibles typical, robust, extending to a little beyond the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical half which i> 

 mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorns covered with an 

 abundance of pale and Mack hairs which are tawny on the dorsulum 



where they are -oinewhat -holler than the Mack and whitidi hair- 



on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, indistinctly punctured and 

 finely, densely reticulated, the sculpture nearly hidden by the dense 

 covering of pule hair with a t;n\nv tinge, notauli represented by :i 

 shining line, mesopleurae with black hairs except for ;i streak of white 

 hair along the convexity between the anterior face and the lateral 

 face and along the upper margin where the hairs are whitish, sculp- 

 tured like the dorsulum though nol so finely and more conspicuously 

 reticulated and punctured, scute! hairy and sculptured much like 

 the dorsulum except for being less densely sculptured, metanotum 

 hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum excepl that the sculpture i- 

 denser, tegulse dark brownish, polished, wing base partly blackish 

 brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma brownish stramineous, 

 with ;i blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submargina] cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second trans- 

 verse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is t.> the stigma on 

 the radial vein, nervulua received by the median cell, nearly inter- 

 stitial ami forming an acute angle with the first abscissa ol the 

 discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except tor the claw- which are 

 brownish stramineous, legs covered with blackish or brownish hairs 

 except the mid and hind femora, hind coxse and trochanters, and 

 lower third of -cup:, where the h:iir- are whiti-h or silvery, 1 scopa 




PRO( i i DINGS "i THE \< \i>i.\n 01 [Nov., 



nearly typical but loose, hind metatarsi al most oearly as wide as 

 mid metatarsi; propodeum with it- enclosure poorly defined, medially 

 with a shallow impression, finely reticulated throughout and with 

 short weak radiating, crooked plicse along the base, rest oJ upper tare 

 of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum bu1 more 

 distinctly and covered with nearly white hair, propodeal pleura 

 shining, distinctly reticulated and with a few scattered indistinct 

 punctures, and almost hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen with 

 it- tergum s hining , finely reticulated and finely indistinctly sparsely 

 punctured, it- firsl and second tergite with long, nearly erect pale 

 ochreous hairs, the succeeding tergites with distinctly shorter pale 

 ochreous hairs that on the fourth and fifth tergites are mixed with a 

 tew Mack hair-, second tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 10 : 22, fifth tergite with its sculpture 

 more distinct than that on the preceding tergite, pygidium truncate, 

 Mack at apex, second and third tergites with a thin apical hair hand, 

 fimbria blackish with pale hairs laterally. 



Andrena (Andrena> monogonoparia new species. 



Type. No. 4,015. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



T'i/h Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to .1. (A.) frigida cockerelli Graenicher. 



Male— Length 8.5 nun.; body black, mostly covered with whitish 

 hair: head with it- facial line : transfacial line :: 54 : 70, axial 

 line : temporal line ;; :;ii : 25, temples produced into a right angle, 

 the angle opposite the middle of the eye, malar line : joint 3 of 

 antenna; :: 2 : 8, elevated portion of malar space shorter than the 

 depressed port inn. bead covered with whitish and black hairs through- 

 out, the white hair- present only on the clypeus, supraclypeal area 

 and to aome extent on the vertex, occiput and temples, front rather 

 roughly reticulated and partly indistinctly striate, ocellocular 

 line : ocelloccipital line :: 18 : 0. face shining , distinctly punctured, 

 ii- puncture- mostly from one to two puncture width- apart, the 

 interstices finely reticulated, clypeus apparently -lightly convex, 

 elevated directly above the apical margin, nearly polished and 

 punctured much like the i-.u-c, clypearea wanting, sculpture of the 

 clypeus not hidden by the moustache, labrarea with two faces, 

 emarginate beneath at the apex of the lower face, width at 

 base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, width at apex : length down 

 the middle :: 25 : 3, labrarea at base apparently half :i- wide a- the 

 labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden hair-, joint :; of antenna? : 




L916.] \ \ I i RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



4 :: 8 : 7, joint 4 and following joints nearly twice as long as thick 

 the terminal joint excepted, which is apparently at leasl twice as 

 long as thick, dullish, Aagel undulate in outline, antennae blackish 

 throughout, righl mandible nearly typical, rather -lender, extending 

 nearly to the end of the basal fourth of it- fellow, Mack except for 

 the apical third which Is mostly dark reddishj palpi slender, nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of whitish hairs, that are 

 sparsely mixed with Mack on the dorsulum and scutel, hairs of 

 dorsulum seemingly as long as hair of mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and sparsely punctured, the punctures rather 

 indistinct and mostly four or five puncture widths apart, notauli 

 represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with whitish hairs through- 

 out, finely reticulated and mostly covered with -hallow pits that are 

 mostly two or three puncture width- apart, scute! hairy ami sculp- 

 tured much like the dorsulum except thai it i- partly nearly polished, 

 metanotum hairy ami sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is denser, tegulae brownish stramineous, polished, wing 

 base mostly pale stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma brownish 

 stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull stramineous 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submargina] cell beyond the middle and little nearer to the second 

 transverse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma 

 mi the radial vein, nervulu- interstitial, forming an acute angle with 

 the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown excepting 

 the tar-i and hind tibiae which are rather dark brown, legs covered 

 wit h whitish hair-, hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than mid meta- 

 tarsi and nearly half a- wide a- hind tibiae at apex of the latter: 

 propodeum with it- enclosure well defined, finely reticulate, rounded 

 at apex, rest of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurae 

 hut with -mailer pit- and covered with whitish hair, propodeal 

 pleurae sculptured apparently like the mesopleurae the sculpture not 

 hidden by the uniformly distributed whitish hair-: aMomen with it- 

 tergum shining, finely reticulated and indistinctly punctured, the 

 puncture- many puncture width- apart, first and second tergites 

 with erect whitish hairs, third and following tergitee with dark or 

 blackish hairs excepting the fifth beyond its base which like the apex 

 of the abdomen ie covered with pale brownish hair-, second tergite 

 with it- elevated portion down 'he middle : depressed por- 

 tion ::•_':;:."», fifth tergite with it- basal blackish portion cov< 



with poorly defined punctures that ate mans puncture widths apart. 



rest of fifth tergite and depressed portion of sixth tergite brownish 




PRO< i i DINGS OF THE it \m:\n OF I Nov., 



stramineous, anal process spatulate and stramineous at apex, not 

 emarginate, tergum with it- hairs not supplemented on the sidi 

 the second, third and fourth tergites by apical hair bands. 



Audreua (Andrena) obscuripostica di 



No. 1,016. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Locality. Nevada (H. K. Morrison), 

 bed, presumably, to .1. {A.) apacheorum Cockerell. 



Ft malt .- Length 9 mm.; body Mack, covered with pale ochr< - 



pubescence; head with its facial Line : transf acial line :: 53 : 74, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 29 : 17. Mack, its pubescence ochreous 

 excepl along the lower edge of the Labrum where it is reddish brown, 

 alone; the lower edge of the mandibles where it is brownish and in 

 the fovea where it is seal-brown, excepl for the long blackish hairs 

 and on the occiput and temples where it is whit ish, fovea apparent ly 

 at most two-thirds as wide along the ocellocular line than the latter 

 i- long, hardly separated from the eye margin where the ocellocular 

 line join- the latter, fovea shallow, fovarea wanting, fovea extending 

 distinctly below the antennal line but apparently falling short of the 

 clypeal line, clypearea wanting, clypeaJ punctures distinct, most of 

 the punctures from one to two puncture widths apart, the interstices 

 partly polished partly reticulated on the disc, elsewhere reticulated 

 throughout, clypeus convex, deeply, transversely impressed just 

 before the apical edge, mandibles black except for the apical two- 

 third- of the inner margin and all of the apical third which are 

 reddish castaneous, palpi typical, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 8, 

 antenna* blackish brown, labrarea broad and short, subemarginate, 

 nearly a- wide at apex as at base, four times as wide at base a- long 

 down the middle, malar space virtually crowded out by the eye: 

 thorax black with thin ochreous pubescence above and whitish 

 pubescence on the pleura, dorsulum mostly dull and finely reticulated, 

 with indistinct puncture- that are as many as four to five puncture 

 width- apart, -cut el sculptured like the dorsulum, metanotum densely 

 sculptured, leu- pubescenl like the pleurae except that the hairs of 

 the tibia' and tarsi are brownish golden, scopa golden, its hairs not 

 - enough to obscure the tegument, their :in;ingement and 

 character typical, tarsi and hind tibia' dark brown, rest of legs darker. 



_ lae and wing base dark brownish stramineous to blackish, stigma 



brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish brown, border of stigma 



and remaining veins brownish stramineous, darker than the stigma, 



first recurrent vein received by the second Bubmarginal cell a little 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES 01 PHILADELPHIA. 569 



beyond the middle, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle 

 with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein; propod* um with a poorly 

 denned funn< : enclosure, sides of the propodeum similarly 



sculptured with the enclosure though more rugulose and in addition 

 indefinitely punctured; abdomen dullish black, finely reticulated and 

 indistinctly punctured, the tergum from the base of the depressed 

 margin of the second tergite to the end of the fourth tergite more 

 shining than elsewhere but nevertheless finely reticulated, depressed 

 portion of the second tergite down the middle : elevated portion :: 

 7 : L6, second, third and fourth tergites with mosl of their depressed 

 portion covered with a whitish fascia, erect pubescence of tergum 

 also whitish, thai of the first and second tergite rather conspicuous, 

 fifth tergite punctured, no definite sculpture between the punctures, 

 fimbria dark brown, pygidium, planate, rounded at apex, conical 

 in outline, dark reddish In-own to blackish, and with a slightly 

 submarginally impressed line <>n each side. 



Andrena Andrena) pulverea '■• 



No. 1,043. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



- Locality- California (no further dati 

 ited to .1. .1. papagorum Viereck and Cockerell. 

 Female.— Length 9 mm.; body black, mostlj covered with pale 

 ochreous or whitish hair-; head with it- facial line : transfacial 

 line i5, axial line : temporal line :: '- )y > : 17. malar line : joint 



3 oi antennae :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: :; : I, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, 

 head covered with whitish hairs, front rather indistinctly, longi- 

 tudinally striate, not elevated into a well along the fovea, its crista 

 poorly developed, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: lu : L3, foveal 

 hand wanting, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line 

 :: \ : 13, f"\ ghtly attenuated below it- middle where n i- 



apparent ly only a little narrower t han t he greatest widt h of the f< 

 the latter continued to a point well below the antenna! line, upper 

 ■ filled with pale seal-brown hair-, lower half with -till 

 r hair- vertex and temp!' he uppei wit h 



dark hair-, face shining, finely reticulate, with distinct punctures 

 that are as many a- one to three puncture width- apart, clypcus 

 di tinctly elevated above the apical m nvex, dullish, 



sculptured like the that the punctui eeminglj 



iller and the reticulation denser, clypearea present but poorlj 

 defined and represented bj a narrow impuncta olypeus 




.")7<> PROCEEDINGS 01 INI. \< \ni.\n OF Nov. 



thinly hairy, its sculpture n<>t at all bidden by hairs, labrarea tri- 

 angular, its width :it base : length down the middle :: L2 : 5, labrarea 

 at base nearly two-thirds a- wide a- the labrum, the latter with 

 a fringe of brownish hairs, labrum apparently structureless and 

 sculptureless between the labrarea ami apical edge of labrum, joint 

 antenna : I + 5 :: '.» : •'•. joints I to '• thicker than long, the 

 succeeding joints a- thick a- long or m little longer than thick except 

 jpinl 12 which i- distinctly longer than thick, antennas blackish 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending a little beyond the 

 outi r edge of the labrart a. black except lor the apical half which i- 

 .lark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance 

 .if whitish hairs which are distinctly shorter on the dorsulum where 

 they are darker than the almost white hairs on the mesopleurae, 

 dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, indistinctly punctured, the 

 punctures mostly many puncture width- apart, notauli represented 

 by a shining '.inc. niesopleurae with almost white hairs, sculptured 

 somewhat like the dorsulum but more shining and more distinctly 

 punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except thai the 

 sculpture i- denser and less distinct, tegulae blackish brown, polished, 

 win» base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 pale brownish stramineous, resl of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge excepting the cubiti which are yellowish, received by 

 the -< cond submarginal cell beyond the middle and nearly as near to 

 the second transverse cubitus a- the first transverse «ul >it us is to the 

 stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane uniformly 

 tinged with yellowish brown, legs dark brown, covered with brownish 

 golden and pale ochreous or whitish hair-, scopa typical, its hair- of 

 the lower half pale ochreous almost white, of its upper half with a 

 golden hue. hair- at base above decidedly darkened, hind metatarsi 

 ;it most apparently a little narrower than mid metatarsi; pr<>i><»lriint 

 with its enclosure poorly denned, shining and finely reticulated, rest 

 of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurffi 

 hut with -mailer punctures, and covered with finer pale ochreous 

 hair, propodeal pleurae fine reticulated, shining and with sparse 



-hallow puncture- and almost hidden by the nearly white flocCUSJ 



abdomen with its tergum shining, satiny, finely reticulate and indis- 

 tinctly punctured, the puncture- from two to six or more puncture 

 width- apart on the first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the 

 succeeding tergites, second, third ami fourth tergites with an apical, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



whitish hair band thai is interrupted in the middle of the second and 

 third tergites, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth tt -notes 

 with a whitish stramineous border, second tergite with its elevated 



portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 18 : 9, fifth tergite 

 dullish, reticulate, its punctun- Larger than on the other tergites, 

 pygidium nearly planate, sculptured, punctate and rugulose, nearly 

 truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous whil ish hair- in addition 



to The hair hand- and the nearly erect whitish hairs laterally on the 



first and second tergites, fimbria pale In-own. 



Andrena i.Andrena) sancta new species. 



Type.- No. 4,017. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Typt Locality- California (no additional data except a written n. 

 on the locality label . 



Related to. I. A. parnassioe Cockerell. 



l'< malt . Length l<) mm.; body Mack, mostly covered with whitish 

 hair-; ]ua<\ with its facial line : transfacial line :: 53 : 71, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 29 : L6, malar line : joint 3 of antenna :: 

 1.5:9, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head 

 covered with whitish hairs, from shiny, finely longitudinally striate, 



with a p ly defined crista and not elevated along the inner margin 



of the fovea, fovea at mosi : ocellocular line :: 8 : L3, fovea! band 

 nearly wanting, fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the 

 inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: 6 ; 13, fovea somewhal constricted near its upper end, nearly 

 parallel sided throughout mid continued below the constriction as m 

 .-hallow furrow down to a point apparently a little below the clypeal 

 line, fovea pale Beal-brown above its middle, pale ochreous or whitish 

 below, fovarea wanl inn, face dullish, finely ret iculated mid indefinitely 

 punctured, clypeus distinctly elevated above the apical margin, 

 slightly convex, with it- basal half sculptured much like the face hut 

 distinctly punctured, the apical half mostly almost polished mid 

 coarsely punctured, the punctures from nearly adjoining to two 

 puncture width- apart on each side of the impunctate, median 

 longitudinal, feeble, welt-like clypearea, clypeus thinly hairy, its 

 surface not hidden, labrarea truncate, width m base : length down 

 the middle :: 11 : .">, width at apex : length down the middli 

 labrarea at base nearly two-thirds :i- wide as the labrum, the latter 

 with ;i fringe oi ramineous hair-, joint 3 of antenna : I • 



.") :: '.i : 9, joint 1 ,-i- thick :i- long, the succeeding joints a little longer 



than thick except the fifth which i- a- long :i> thick aid the end 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE LCADEM1 OF (Nov., 



joint winch is much longer than thick, antennas blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, robust , extending to the outer edge of the labrum, 

 black except for the apical half which is .lark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical: thorax covered with an abundance of whitish hairs which 

 arc shorter on the dorsulum where they are pale ochreous than the 

 whitish hairs on the mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, punctured, finely 



reticulated except tor the middle third of the posterior hull' which is 



polished and punctured, the punctures of the reticulated area from 

 nearly adjoining to nearly hair puncture widths apart, the punctures 

 of the polished area much sparser, notauli represented by an impres -• I 

 line, mesopleurse with whitish hairs throughout, finely reticulate and 

 sparsely punctured, SCUtel hairy anil sculptured much like the 

 polished part of the dorsulum except for being more finely punctured, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dullish portion of the 

 dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser, tegulae dark brownish 

 Btramineous, polished, wins base partly blackish brown, subcosta 

 blackish brown, stigma dark brownish stramineous, rest of veins 

 dull stramineous, with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received 

 by the Becond submargina] cell beyond the middle and apparently 

 a- near to the second transverse cubitus as the first transverse 

 cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and 

 forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 leu- blackish brown except for the tarsi which are more or less dark 

 brownish stramineous, legs covered with whitish hairs, scopa typical, 

 it- hairs of a whitish hue, and coneolorous throughout except for 

 the hair- on the basal half of the upper edge where the hairs are 

 blackish brown, hind metatarsi at most apparently as wide as mid 

 metatarsi; propog]eum with its enclosure poorly defined, triangular, 

 finely reticulated, not at all rugose, rest of upper face of propodeum 

 sculptured Bomewhat like tic- mesopleurse but seemingly with smaller 

 pit- and covered with whitish hair, propodeal pleura' distinctly 

 reticulated and with a few ill-defined punctures and almost hidden 

 by the whitish floccus; abdomen with it- tergum shiny, punctured 

 and delicately reticulated, the puncture- fine and from two to eight 

 or more puncture width- apart on the first tergite except on its 

 depressed portion where the punctures are closer together, the 

 puncture- on the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth 

 tergites similar to those on the first tergite and sparser than on the 

 depressed portion- of the Becond, third and fourth tergites, where the 

 punctures are much a- on the depressed portion of the first tergite, 

 md tergite with it- elevated portion down the middle : depressed 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



portion :: 18 : 8, fifth tergite with it- sculpture coarser, it- punctures 

 not so well defined as on the preceding tergite, pygidium black, 

 planate, truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous pair hairs, 

 second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, interrupted, white, 

 hair band, fimbria brownish. 



Andrena Andrena scutelliniteus << 



Type. No. 20,679, U. S. National Museum. 



Type Locality. California C. F. Baker, No. 2.. 'ITS). 



Related to A. .1 . nubecula Smith. 



Female. — Length 8 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pair 

 ochreoua or yellowish hair-; head with it- facial line : transfacial 

 line :; 59 : 63, axial line : temporal line :: 28 : 16, malar line : joint 

 3 of antenna? :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatesl diameter of lateral 

 ocellus :: 7 : 5, elevated portion of malar -parr nearly wanting, head 

 covered with hair- thai are concolorous with the body hair-, frohl 

 rather distinctly, longitudinally striate, frontal crista vestigeal, 

 front qo1 elevated into a well along the fovea, fovea at tnosl : ocellocu- 

 lar line :: 7.5 : 11, fovea! hand represented by a shiny line at upper 

 end of the inner rye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : 

 ocellocular line:: 1:11. fovea somewhal attenuated below its 

 middle where it is apparently only a little narrower than the greatest 

 width of the fovea, the latter continued to a point apparently a little 

 above the clypeal line, fovea filled with hair- thai are concolorous 

 with the body hair-, vertex and temples along the upper edge of the 

 with the hair- concolorous with the body hair-, face polished with 

 distind punctures thai are from adjoining to as manj as three punc- 

 ture width- apart, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical margin. 

 convex, sculptured like the face excepl thai the punctures are lai 

 and mostly not -o close together, clypearea presenl hut poorly 

 denned, clypeus thinly hairy it- sculpture not at all hidden by hair-, 

 labrarea emarginate, it- width at base : length down the middle :: 

 12 : 1. width at apex : length down the middle : .''>.."> : I. labrarea 

 at base nearly two-thirds a- wide a- the jzi< .it ■ -i length of labrum, 

 the latter with n fringe of pale hairs, labrum without a median 

 longitudinal «-ri-t n between tin' labrarea and apical edge of labrum, 

 joint :; oi antennae : 1 + 5 :: '.• : '.». joinl 1 thicker than long, the 

 ■ eding joint- :i- thick a- long or ;i little longer than thick excepl 

 joint 12 which i- distinctly longer than thick, antenna; blackish brown 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer • 

 of the labrarea, black excepl for the apical half which i- mostly clear 

 dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance 




."71 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHE A.( \i»i;my OF [Nov., 



of yellowish hairs which arc much shorter od the dorsulum where 

 tlic\ are darker than the almost whitish hairs on the mesopleur®, 

 dorsulum shining, partly polished, partly finely reticulated, punc- 

 tured like the clypeus but uo1 bo Bparsely, uotauli represented by a 

 Bhiny line, mesopleurs with almosl whitish hairs, sculptured some- 

 whal like the dorsulum but more densely reticulated. Bcutel hairy 

 and mostly polished, otherwise sculptured much like the dorsulum, 



metanotum hairy and densely sculptured, the sculpture nearly hidden 

 by the hair-, tegulffi blackish brown, polished, wing base partly black- 

 ish brown, Bubcosta blackish brown, stigma pale yellowish 

 stramineous, rest of veins dull brownish Btramineous, with a blackish 



tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell 

 beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse cubitus than 

 the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 nearly interstitial, received by the median cell and forming an acute 

 angle with the second abscissa of the median vein, membrane uni- 

 formly tinged with brown, apical margin darkest, legs blackish except 

 for the small joints of the tarsi which are more or less pale brown, 

 legs covered with brownish golden and nearly whitish hairs, scopa 

 typical, its hairs golden except at base above where they are decidedly 

 darkened, hind metatarsi at most : mid metatarsi :: 11 : 12; propo- 

 dewn with its enclosure rather well defined, shiny, finely reticulated 

 and roughened by oblique lateral rugae, rest of upper face of 

 propodeum rugulose, punctured and reticulated, covered with fine 

 nearly whitish hair, propodeal pleurse reticulated, with sparse shallow 

 punctures and almost hidden by the almost white floccus; abdomen 

 with its tergum shining and finely reticulated as well as punctured, 

 the punctures from one to three or more puncture widths apart on 

 the first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding 

 tergites, first, second, third and fourth tergites w T ith the depressed 

 margin covered with a broad nearly whitish hair band that is not 

 interrupted in the middle, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a stramineous border that is nearty hidden by the hair 

 bands, second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: 16 : 12, fifth tergite shilling, reticulate, its 

 punctures coarser than on the other tergites, and nearly hidden by 

 the fimbria, pygidium convex, without a shallow furrow on each 

 side, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with inconspicuous blackish 

 hairs in addition to the hair bands and the nearly erect yellowish 

 hair- at base of first tergite, fimbria dark cacao-brown. 



Allotype. — No. 4,041. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 




1916.] NATURAL Si DEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Allotype Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Length 6.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with ochreous or 

 yellowish hair; head with it- facial line : transfacial line :: 53 : 62, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 27 : 17. temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, 

 malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 1 : 7. elevated portion of malar 

 space as in the female, front distinctly striated, shining, ocellocular 

 line : ocelloccipital line :: 12 : 5, face polished, distinctly punctured, 

 its punctures mostly adjoining or one puncture width apart, clypeus 

 convex, sculptured much like the face, Bomewhal elevated directly 

 above the apical margin, clypearea represented near the apical 

 margin, Bculpture of the clypeus marly hidden by the moustache, 

 labrarea with a broad emargination, polished, it- width at base : 

 greatest length :: 8 : L5, width at apex : length down the middle :: 

 5 : 3, labrarea at base nearly half a- wide as the labrum, the 

 latter with a fringe of pale golden hairs, joinl 3 of antennae : l :: 7 : .">. 

 joint 4 and following joints from as long as thick to :i little longer 

 than thick excepting the end joint which is distinctly nearly twici 

 long as thick, flagel, almosi straighl in outline, antenna' dullish and 

 blackish throughout, mandibles atypical, robust, extending a little 

 beyond the outer edge of the labrum and to the middle of it- fellow, 

 black except for the apical half which is dull dark reddish, palpi 

 nearly typical; thorax a< in the female except that the dorsulum is 

 mostly polished, legs blackish brown excepting the tarsi and hind 

 tibiae which are paler, hind metatarsi at mosl hardly wider than 

 mid metatarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae al apex of the 

 latter; propodeum with it- enclosure much as in the female, more 

 regulose and with an ill-defined median longitudinal carina, reel of 

 upper face as in the female, propodeal pleurae sculptured apparently 

 as in the female; abdomen a- in the female excepl a- follows: fifth 

 tergite with a hair band like the preceding -. apical edge of 



all tergites with a pale stramineous border, hair band of second 

 tergite interrupted in the middle, second tergite with it- e!c\ 

 portion down the middle ; depressed portion :. M mi with 



pale appressed hair- on the second segment, anal process narrow, 

 truncate, pale stramineous al apex, its Bides diverging, hair at apex 

 of abdomen of a golden hue. 



Andrena (Andrena; semifulva i 



Type. No. 1,048. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



T ■ ■ ■ Lo ''v. ' lalifornia 1 1 Nortoi 



I,' -la ted to A . 1 accata Viereck. ^ 




576 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE LCADEM1 01 [Nov., 



Female.- Length L3 mm.; body black, mostly covered with black 

 hairs: head with its facial line : transf acial line :: 73 : 98, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 39 : 26, malar line : joint '■> of antennas :: I : l I. 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly as long as depressed portion, 

 head covered with Mack or blackish hairs excepl for some pale hairs 

 on tin' vertex, from more reticulate than striate, not elevated along 

 the inner fovea) edge, fovea at mosl : ocellocular line :: '8 : 21, 

 fovea! band wanting, fovea virtually contiguous to the upper cud of 

 the inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 



line :: 5 : 24, fovea hardly constricted near its middle where it is 

 apparently nearly a< wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the 



latter continued below the middle a- a narrowing shallow impression 

 down to a point distinctly below the clypeal line, fovea very dark 

 seal-brown, face shining, finely reticulated and rather indistinctly 

 punctured, the punctures one to three puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 slightly elevated above the apical margin, convex, sculptured much 

 like the face l>ut more shining and more distinctly punctured, 

 clypearea wanting, clypeus densely hairy laterally where its surface 

 i- nearly hidden by hairs, labrarea rounded, its width at base : length 

 down the middle :: 20 : 5, convex at apex, labrarea at base at least 

 two-third- as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe; of brownish 

 hairs, joint M of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 14 : 11, joint 4 nearly as thick 

 a- long, the succeeding joint- as long or a little longer than thick, 

 the end joint distinctly longer than thick, antenna' blackish through- 

 out, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge of the 

 labrum. black except for the apical half which is partly dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of slender 

 hair- which are ochreous on the dorsuhun where they are a little 

 shorter than the blackish hairs on the mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and closely punctured with rather indefinite 

 puncture-, notauli represented by a sh ining line, mesopleurae with 

 blackish hair-, except along the upper margin where the hairs are 

 concolorous with the hairs of the dorsulum, scute! hairy and sculp- 

 tured much like the dorsulum except for being less finely sculptured, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is coarser, tegulae dark brownish stramineous, reticulated 

 and shiny, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, 

 gma pale stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull 

 brownish stramineous, with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein 

 received by the second submargina] cell a little before, in or a little 

 beyond the middle and as near or nearer to the first transverse cubitus 




1916.] NATURAL BCTENCE6 OF PHILADELPHIA. 57*3 



as the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 

 nervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa 

 of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except for the tarsi which 

 are more or less brownish stramineous, legs covered with blackish or 

 dark brown hair-, scopa typical, it- hairs of a blackish brown hue 

 and concolorous throughout, hind metatarsi at most apparently as 

 wide as mid metatarsi; propodeum with it- enclosure poorly denned, 

 finely reticulated, not at all rugose, rest of upper face of propodeum 

 sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse but covered with ochreous 

 hair, propodeal pleura? finely reticulate and with sparse indefinite 

 punctures, not hidden by the poorly developed blackish floccus; 

 abdomen with it- tergum shining, finely reticulated and finely 

 punctured, the punctures poorly defined and from two to six or more 

 puncture width- aparl on the first tergite, second, third and fourth 

 tergites sculptured much like the first tergite, second tergite with its 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 29 : 10, 

 fifth tergite with it- sculpture of the same kind as the preceding 

 tergite, pygidium Mack, almost planate and nearly pointed at apex, 

 dullish, without an enclosure, tergum with rather conspicuous blackish 

 hair-, second, third and fourth tergites without a hair band, fimbria 

 blackish brown. A paratopotype has the hair of the dorsulum and 

 scute! reddish and the labrarea truncate, the truncature as wide as 

 the length of the labrarea down the middle. 



Andrena Andrena> sola n 



Type. No. 1,047. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



'/'///« Locality. Southern California II. K. Morrison . 



Related to A. .1. svbiUis Smith, and probably a -mall variety of 

 that species. 



Female. Length 11 mm.: body Mack, mostly covered with 

 pale hair-; fu ml with it- facial line : tran-facial line :: 63 s h 

 axial line : temporal lin< 21, malar line : joint 3 of ant una- 



:: 1.5 : 1". elevated portion of malar -pace virtually wanting, head 



ered with pale ochreous hair-, front finely longitudinally striate 

 on each side of a well-developed median longitudinal crista, not 

 elevated along the inner foveal at most : ocellocular 



line:: 12: 17. fovea! hand well developed, polished and sparsely 

 punctured, fovea mark contiguous to the upper end of the inner 

 eye margin, distance between ind ocelli at the latter 



point : ocellocular line:: I : 17. fovea constricted near it- middle 



where it i- apparently only two -third- a- w id. a- tl ,-t width 




•~>7^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE hi U>EM1 OF [Nov., 



of the fovea, the latter continued below the constriction as a -hallow 

 depression down to a poinl apparently on the clypeal line, fovea with 

 a little more than its upper half seal-brown, the rest pale ochreous, 

 fovarea widest a little below the middle of the fovea, no1 angulated, 

 it- widesl pan : ocellocular line :: 2.5 : 17, face shiny, delicately 

 reticulated and sparsely punctured, its punctures not well defined 

 and from two to four puncture width- apart, clypeus distinctly 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and dullish reticu- 

 punctured a- sparsely a- the face hut the punctures larger and 

 more distinct, clypearea wanting, clypeus thinly hairy, its sculpture 

 not obscured by the pubescence, labrarea truncate, width at base : 



length down the middle ;; ]:■', ; .">, width at apex : length down the 



middle :: ."> : .">, labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, 

 the latter with a fringe of dark hair.s, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 10 : 10, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding joints from as 

 long as to distinctly a little longer than thick, antenna' blackish 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge 

 of the labrarea, black except for the apical half which is blackish 

 except for a reddish tinge, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with 

 an abundance of pale hairs which are tawny on the dorsulum where 

 they are shorter than the whitish hairs on the mesopleurae, dorsulum 

 dullish, reticulated and punctured, the punctures apparently better 

 defined and closer together than the punctures of the face, notauli 

 represented by a shiny line, mesopleurae distinctly reticulated and 

 punctured somewhat like the face but the punctures larger, with 

 whitish hair-, except along the upper margin where the hairs are 

 tawny a- on the dorsulum, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the 

 dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser, tegulae dark brownish stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, membrane uniformly tinged with brown, first 

 recurrent vein received by the second submaxgmal cell before the 

 middle and nearly a- near to the first transverse cubitus as the first 

 transverse cubitus i- to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the 

 discoidaJ vein, Ie^~ blackish brown except for the claw- winch are 

 more or less brownish stramineous, legs covered with whitish and 



brownish hair-. SCOpa typical, its hail- of a whit i-h hue. and COnCOlOT- 

 throughoul except that the hair- on the upper margin are brownish 

 to almost blackish at base of upper margin, hind metatarsi at most 

 apparently a- wide as mid metatarsi; propodeum with it- enclosure 

 sharply denned, finely reticulated, not at all rugose, resl of upper 




1916.] NATURAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579 



face of propodeum sculptured somewhal like the mc-opleurae and 

 covered with whitish hair, propodeal pleura' with delicate reticula- 

 tions, more shiny than the mesopleurse and more sparsely punctured 

 and almost hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen Mack with a 

 bluish tinge, with it- tergum shining, finely reticulated and punc- 

 tured, first tergite more distinctly and more closely punctured than 

 the face, punctures on the elevated portion of the second and third 

 tergites nearly as close together as on the disc of the first tergite and 

 a little larger than on the depressed portions, second tergite with it- 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 18 : 11, 

 fifth tergite dullish and with rather indistinctly defined puncture- 

 that are from three to four puncture width- apart, pygidium black, 

 planate, pointed :i t apex, dullish without an enclosure, tergum with 

 inconspicuous pale hair-, second, third and fourth tergites withoul a 

 hair hand, fimbria pale seal-brown 



Other Locality.- Half way up Mt. Bamilton Road near San Jos£, 

 California, on wild cherry (H. Morrison, 1,177 . 

 Andrena 'Andrena) stictigastra n 



Type. No. 1,036. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality- Southern California II. K. Morrison . 



Presumably related to .1. (A.) fuUnnigra Viereck ami Cockerell. 



Female. Length 9.5 mm.: body Mack, covered throughout with 

 Mack or blackish brown hair-: head with its facial line : transfaciaJ 

 line 57 ". axial Inn .• temporal Uru :: ■'•<> : 17, malar line : joint 

 antenna :: i ' elevated portion of malar -pace barely 

 represented, head covered with Mack or Macki-h brown hair-, front 

 coarsely Btriated, fovea at most : ocellocvlar Inn :: in : /'.', foveal 

 band poorly developed rtuaUy contiguotu i<> tht upper < ml of 



tin inner > >/> margin, distana bet ea ""</ ocelli : ocellocvlar 



Inn .:■'>: 16, fovea constricted mm- Us middh when '/""'' ntly 



half as wia\ q width of Uu fovea, the latter continued >•■ 



(fu i hallow <!• down i>> <i point apparentl 



tin clypeal Hi wiih dark hair, fovarea wanting, face poli 



not -o densely punctured a- the clypeus, clypeus slightly elevated 

 above 'he apical margin, convex, -lumn ered with distinct 



adjoining or nearly adjoining puncture-, clypearea exceedingly 

 narrow hut extending nearly from base to apex, clypeus thinly hairy 

 with dark hair-. labrarea rounded truncate, it- width at base : length 

 down the middle :: in : 5, width at apex : length down the mid- 

 dle :: 3 : 5, lahrana at base nearly half a- wide a- the laMuru, the 




580 i-K< m ii DINGS 01 I'm. M UDEM1 0] [NOV., 



latter with a fringe of dark hair-, joinl '■'> of antennas : I 

 3 I 5, joinl f thicker than Long, t/u succeeding joints ai most 

 a little longer than thick, mitt una blackish throughout, mandibles 

 typical, robust, ool extending to the outer edge of the Labrum, l>ut 

 slightly overlapping below the middle of the Labrum, Mack except 

 for the apical third which is dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; 

 thorax covered with blackish hairs which arc darkesl on the dorsulum 

 where they arc Bhorter than the dark brownish hairs on the meso- 

 pleurse, dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, coarsely punctured, the 

 punctures from nearly adjoining to six puncture widths apart, 

 the punctures mostly sparsely distributed, notauli represented by 

 an impressed shining line, mesopleuras sculptured much like the 

 scute! but more coarsely so, with dark brownish hairs, except along 

 the upper margin where the hairs are blackish, scutel hairy and 

 edingly densely punctured, its punctures as close togeiher as 

 possible, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the scutel except that 

 the sculpture is apparently not so coarse, teguhe blackish stramineous, 

 with blackish margins, polished, wing base partly blackish brown, 

 membrane with a uniform blackish brown tinge, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma bright brownish, rest of veins dull stramineous, with 

 a blackish tinge, firsl recurrent vein received by the second sub- 

 marginal cell beyond the middle; and nearer to the second transverse 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, nervulus not interstitial but nearly so, received by the median 

 cell and forming an acute angle with the second abscissa of the 

 median vein and with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs 

 blackish brown except for the claws which are more or less browni-h 

 stramineous, legs covered with blackish hairs, scopa typical, its hairs 

 of a blackish brown hue, and concolorous throughout, hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently as wide as mid metatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure well defined, coarsely sculptured in addition to having at 

 least five well-defined longitudinal carina' on each side of a median 

 longitudinal carina, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured 

 somewhat like the metanotum but not so finely and covered with 

 blackish brown hair, propodeal pleurae shining, delicately reticulated 

 and with sparse shallow punctures, not nearly hidden by the blackish 

 brown floccu8j abdomen with h- tergum polished, punctured, the 

 punctures clear cut but small and from one to four puncture 



widths apart on the first tergite, from one to three puncture widths 

 apart on the elevated portion of the second and third tergites where 

 the puncture- are seemingly larger than on the depressed portions 




1916.] NATURAL B( DENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



and from one to three puncture width- apart <>n the depressed 

 portion- of the second and third tergites, second tergite with its 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: L3 : 6, 

 fourth tergite more sparsely punctured than second and third, fifth 

 tergite with it- punctures sparse, ill denned and surrounded by fine 

 reticulations, pygidium dullish, slightly convex, rounded broadly 

 truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous blackish hairs, second, 

 third and fourth tergites without a hair hand, fimbria blackish brown 

 or dark seal-brown. The part- described in italics have been 

 destroyed by museum pests, so the italicised point- arc what will 

 probably be found in a perfed specimen. 



Andrena (Andrena) subnigripes new ap 



Type. -No. 1,018. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



• Locality. Southern California II. K. Morriso 



Related to A. .1. nigrvpes Provancher. 



Female. Length K) nun.: body black, mostly covered with pah- 

 hair-; head with it- facial line : transfacial hue :: 55 : 77, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 30 : 17, malar line : joint 3 of antenna? :: 1 : 11. 

 elevated portion of malar -pace nearly a- long a- depressed portion, 

 head covered with ochreous hairs, except lor some scattered blackish 

 hair- or brownish hair- along the inner eye margin, on the clypeufl 

 and mandibles, front longitudinally striate, dullish, with a well- 

 define,! median longitudinal crista, fovea at most : ocellocular 

 line :: pi : 16, foveal band poorly developed, dullish, with a few 

 puncture-, fovea nearly contiguous to the upper end of the innei 

 margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 5 : L6, 

 fovea constricted near it- middle when- it i- apparently half as wide 

 as the greatesl width of the fovea, the latter continued below the 

 constriction as a narrowing depression down to a point apparently 

 midway between the clypeal line and the antenna! lin< with 



pale seal-brown hair- above the middle, pale ochreous nearly white 



hair- below the middle, lace partly shining, partly dulli-h. reticulated 



and with a few I ttered punctures, clypeus decidedly elevated 



above the apical margin, feebly convex, with a median longitudinal 

 shining welt at the anterior edge, mostly finel} reticulated, dulli-h 

 and indistinctly punctured, clypearea represented by the welt 

 described above, otherwise want me. clypeus with its elevated • 

 shining, labrarea rounded a' apex, nearly triangular, width at 



base : length down the middle :: II : I. lahrana at base nearly 

 two-third- a- wide a- the lahruin. the latter with a fl J 'lark 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



hairs thai have pale tips, joint 3 of antennae : 4 -f- 5 :: l! : 7.5, 

 joint 4 thicker than long, like the fifth, thf succeeding joints as long 



as or a little longer than thick except the end joint which is dis- 

 tinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish throughout, mandibles 

 typical, robust, extending to a little beyond the middle of the labium, 

 black except for the apical half which is dark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of tawny hairs dorsally 

 and over the tubercles, the hair- as thin and long on the dorsulum as 

 on the mesopleurae where the hairs arc pale ochreous, dorsulum dull, 

 finely reticulated, and closely punctured, the punctures from one to 

 three puncture width- apart on 1 he anterior third, less distinct and 

 more widely separated on the posterior half where the dorsulum i< 

 in addition finely longitudinally striated, aotauli represented by a 

 Bhining line, mesopleurae with pale ochreous hairs, except along the 

 upper margin where the hair- are tawny like on the dorsulum, sculp- 

 tured somewhat like the anterior third of the dorsulum except that 

 the puncture- are represented by pits, scutel hairy and sculptured 

 much like the dorsulum except for being less distinctly sculptured and 

 not striate, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the Bculpture is denser and nearly hidden by the hairs, tegulae 

 dark brown, polished, wing base partly dark brown, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma brownish stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of 

 vein- dull brownish stramineous, membrane with a brownish tinge, 

 first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell before 

 the middle and not a- near to the second transverse cubitus as the 

 first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 nearly interstitial and forming an acute angle with the median vein 

 and the first abscissa of the discoidaJ vein, legs blackish except for 

 the tarsi which are more or less blackish brown, and the claws which 

 are reddish stramineous, legs covered with blackish hairs, excepting 

 the femoral hair- and the flocci which are pale ochreous. scopa typical, 

 it- hair- of a blackish hue. and concolorous throughout . hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently as wide a- mid melatarsi, the latter with pale hairs 

 along the upper edge; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, 

 finely reticulated, with short feeble rugae along the basal edge, rest of 

 upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurae but, 



not -o coarsely and covered with pale OChreOUS hair, propodeal pleura' 

 nearly hidden by the pale ochreous floCCUS, reticulated and with a 

 few scattered -hallow pit-: abdomen with its tergum shining, rather 

 indistinctly punctured, the punctures from two to five puncture widths 

 apart, first tergite with its punctures not so close together as the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ">>>o 



punctures on the elevated portion of the second and third tergites 

 where the puncture- are from two to five puncture width- apart. 

 depressed portion- of the second, third and fourth tergites almosi 

 impunctate, second tergite with it- elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 17 : 11, fifth tergite with it- punctures 

 coar-e and as many as five or six puncture widths apart, pygidium 

 not planate but convex, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with incon- 

 spicuous dark brown or blackish hairs, first tergite with some pah- 

 hair-, tergum uot fasciate, blackish to dark seal-brown, 



Andrena Andrena; taeniata new sp 



Type. No. 1,049. The Academy of Natural Science- of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Tyjx: Locality. — Southern California II. K. Morrison . 



Related to .1. .1. peckhami < lockerell. 



Female. — Length 11 mm.; body black, mostly covered with whitish 

 hair-; head with its facial line ; transfacial line :: 63 : 79, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 35 : 22, malar line : joint :; of antennas :: 2 : L0, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head covered with 



whitish hair.-, front dullish, finely longitudinally striate, with ;i well- 

 developed crista, and not elevated along t he inner margin of the fovea, 

 fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 11 : 16, foveal band nearly wanting, 

 i virtually contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye margin , 



distance between fovea and ocelli ; ocellocular line :: 5 : 16, fovea 

 ionstricted near it- middle, nearly parallel Bided throughout and 



continued below a- a -hallow furrow down to a point apparently on 



the clypeal line, fovea whitish or pale ochreous, fovarea wanting, 

 face shining, almosi polished, punctured, the punctures close together 

 and rather poorly denned, clypeus distinctly elevated above the 

 apical margin, slightly convex, with a basal ami lateral reticulate 

 punctured margin and a nearly polished punctured disc, the punc- 

 ture- from nearly adjoining to five puncture width- apart, clypearea 

 Poorly developed, clypeus thinly hairy, it- surface not hidden, 

 labrarea emarginate beneath what appears to he the apical 

 truncature, width ;it base : length down tin- middle :: 14 : 4, width 

 at apex : length down the middle :: 7 : 4, length of 



Labrarea : width at be l I, labrarea at base two-thirds a- wide 



a- the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale stramineous hair-. 



joint :; <,f antenna- : 1 + •"> :: 1" ! '■'• joint 1 a little thicker than 



Ion-, joint 5 as long as thick, the succeeding joints apparently a little 

 longer than thick, antennas blackish throughout, end joint distinctly 

 longer than thick, mandibles typical, robust, extending to t a little 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE &.CADEM1 <>K [Nov.,. 



beyond the middle of the labrum, black except for the apical half 

 which i< mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered 

 with aii abundance <>f whitish hair- which arc shorter on the dor- 



sulum where they are pale ochreous than the whitish hair on the 



mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, punctured and finely reticulated 



throughout, it- puncture- mostly from one to two puncture widths 

 apart, notauli represented hy a shiny line, mesopleurse wnli whitish 

 hair- throughout, punctured ami finely reticulated, the punctures 

 much sparser than on the dorsulum, scute! hairy and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum excepl tor being more distinctly punctured, meta- 



notum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 



sculpture is denser, tegulse dark brownish, stramineous, polished, 

 wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge, firsl recurrent vein received by the second submargmal 



cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse cubitus 



than the firsl transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 



the second abscissa of the radius shorter than the first, nervulus 

 forming an acute angle with the second abscissa of the discoidal vein 

 and received by the first discoidal cell, legs bhicki-h brown except 

 for the claws which are more or less brownish stramineous, legs 

 covered with whitish hairs, the hairs on the tarsi and fore tibiae dark, 

 SCOpa typical, its hair- of a pale ochreous or whitish hue throughout, 

 with the hairs at base above slightly darkened, hind metatarsi at 

 most apparently as wide as mid metatarsi; propodc/nn with its 

 enclosure poorly defined, triangular, finely reticulated, not at all 

 rugo-e. reel of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like 

 the mesopleurae but more closely punctured and covered with whitish 

 hair, propodeal pleura delicately reticulated and punctured, the 

 puncture- rather coarse and from two to eight or more puncture 

 width- apart, not hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen with its 

 tergum shiny, punctured and delicately reticulated, first tergite with 

 it- puncture- finer and closer together than on the propodeal pleurae, 

 the punctures of the depressed portion closer together than on the 

 resl of the tergite, on the elevated portion of the second, third 

 and fourth tergites the sculpture is denser than on the elevated 

 portion of the firsl tergite, on the depressed portion- of the second, 

 third and fourth tergites the sculpture i- mostly hidden, second 

 tergite with it- elevated portion down the middle : depressed por- 

 tion :: 10 : 0, fifih tergite with it- sculpture coarser, its puncture- 

 not -o well defined a- on the preceding tergites, pygidium brownish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585- 



with a blackish apical half, slightly convex at apex where tl is linger 

 shaped La outline, tergum with inconspicuous blackish and whitish 

 hair-. second, third and fourth tergites with a well-defined apical 

 whitish hair band, fimbria pale brownish stramineous. 



Andrena Andrena) yumorum new Bp» 



Type- No. 4,019. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. California E. Norton . 



Presumably related to A. {A.) micrarUhophila Cockerell. 



Male. Length 13.5 nun.: body Mack, mostly covered with black 

 hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 77 : 94, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 42 : 21, temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, 

 malar line . joint :; of antenna' :: 2 : 12, elevated portion <>t malar 

 space much shorter than the depressed portion, head covered with 

 long -lender hair- throughout, clypeal hair- and a tuft adjoining 

 mandibles whitish, supraclypeal area and area around base of antennas 

 with a mixture of whitish and blackish hairs, mandibles and labium 



with pale hair-, resl of head with Mack hair-, front partly -par-ely 



pitted, mostly coarsely striate, ocellocular line : ocelloccipital 

 line :: 20 : '.), face shining, covered with distinct, adjoining or nearly 

 adjoining punctures, clypeua apparently slightly elevated directly 

 above the apical margin, almosi polished, convex excepl <>n the apical 

 half down the middle where it i- apparently slightly concave, and 

 punctured like the face, sculpture of the clypeus nearly hidden by the 

 moustache, labrarea nearly triangularly emarginate on it- inferior 

 aspect, ita anterior aspeci truncate, width at base : length down the 



middle :: 1 1 : 7. width at apex : length down the middle :: ti : 7. 



length down the middle : greatesl length :: 7 : 8, labrarea at base 

 apparently at leasl twice a- wide a- the labium, the latter with a 



frin. den hairs, joinl '■'< <>\ antenna' : j<»inl 1 :: 12 : 7. joint 



l as long as thick, following joint- a little longer than thick by 

 measure although appearing distinctly longer than thick, dullish, 

 gel nearly straighl in outline, antenna' blackish throughout, man- 

 dibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge of the labrum, 



Ma<k excepl for the apical half which i- mostly dark leddi-h. palpi 



Dearly typical; litmus covered with an abundance of pale ami Mack 



hair-, hair- of dor-ulum -hotter than hair of mesopleurse, dot-ulum 



distinctly punctured, dullish c pared with the face, its punctures 



-mailer and closer together than on the face, in addition covered with 

 Mack hair- excepl along the edges where there are pale ochreous 

 hair-, notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with \vhiti-h 




PBO< BBDINGS 01 I BE M LDEOT OF [NOV., 



hairs except along the hind edge where the hair is Mack, not 

 reticulated bu1 covered with adjoining punctures thai arc Larger 

 than mi the dorsulum, Bcutel with black hairs and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum excepl for a border of pale hairs like on the meso- 

 pleurse, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum excepl 

 that the sculpture is denser and nearly all the hairs are pale ochreous, 

 tegulsa blackish brown, polished, bordered with black hairs except 

 <>n the anterior third where the hairs are mostly pale ochreous, wing 

 base mostly dark brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma 

 dark brown with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull brownish stra- 

 mineous with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the 



• nd submargmal cell before the middle and at least half again as 

 near to the second transverse cubitus a-- the firsl transverse cubitus 

 i- to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial forming an 

 acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane 

 in median and submedian cells nearly colorles-. rot of membrane 

 with a distind brownish tinge, the broad apical margin darkest, 

 legs blackish excepting the tarsi and hind tibia 1 which are rather 

 dark blackish brown, legs covered with blackish and brownish hairs 

 except femora and coxa' which have more or less pale hair, hind 

 metatarsi at mosl hardly wider than midmetatarsi and nearly half 

 a- wide as hind tibiae at apex of the latter; propodeum with its enclos- 

 ure poorly defined, coarsely rugose on its superior aspect, as many as 

 21 longitudinal carina' present, truncate at apex, its posterior face 

 finely reticulate, resl of upper face sculptured somewhat like the 

 mesopleurse but with adjoining pits rather than punctures and 

 covered with long black hair, propodeal pleurae sculptured apparently 

 like the upper face, the sculpture nearly hidden by the uniformly 

 distributed black hair-: abdomen with its tergum polished, blackish, 

 with dark brownish depressed margins, distinctly punctured, the 

 punctures from nearly adjoining to four puncture widths apart on 

 the first tergite, second, third and fourth tergites punctured much 

 like the first, second tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 38 : 9, fifth tergite with its basal black- 

 ish portion covered with well-defined punctures that are as many as 

 three puncture widths apart, resl of fifth tergite and exposed portion 



sixth and Beventh tergites dark brown or blackish, anal process 

 broadly truncate at apex, shallowly emarginate, tergum with rather 

 conspicuous black nearly erect hairs that are not supplemented on 

 the sides <»f the second, third and fourth tergites by apical hair bamb, 

 hair at apex of abdomen blackish brown. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Andrena (Parandrena austrocalifornica aem species. 



Type. — No. t,020. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California II. K. Morrison). 



Related to .1. P.) cyano'soma Cockerell, var. 



Female. — Length 8.5 mm.; body dark greenish, almosl completely 

 covered with short whitish hair-; head covered with short hair that 

 is mostly whitish, the only dark or blackish hairs are sparsely scattered 

 along the inner and lower edge of the fovea?, front longitudinally 

 striate throughout except laterally on the lower half where it is 

 reticulate and rather indefinitely punctured, fovea whitish except 

 for a few erect dark hair-, at most almost exactly two-third- as wide 

 as the ocellocular line is long, attenuated below and reaching dis- 

 tinctly below the antenna] line but not to the clypeal line, facial 

 line : transfacial line :: 50 : 61, axial line : temporal line :: 26 : 16, 

 joint 3 of antenna : joints 1 + 5 :: 7 : 6, joints 1 8 inclusivi 

 apparently thicker than long, the remaining joints not much longer 

 than thick, antennas blackish except that beyond the fourth joint 

 they are brownish beneath, antennas dullish, end joint typical, 

 clypeus convex, with adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, 

 clypeus appearing Mack, covered with Bparee whitish hairs, clypearea 

 wanting, labrarea nearly twice as wide at base as at apex and 

 nearly as wide at apex as long down the middle, emarginatioD tri- 

 angular and -hallow, not extending more than one-fifth the length 



of the labrarea from apex toward base, lahrarea at base apparently 



somewhat more than one-third as wide as the labrum which latter 

 has a fringe of golden hairs, base of mandibles and eye nearly adjoin- 

 ing, the malar space accordingly represented by not much more than 

 a shining line, mandibles Mack with the apical half mostly reddish 



castaneOUS except for a blackish Stain near the mi. Idle of the apical 



half, typical in shape, palpi -lender, nearly typical; thorax covered 

 with whitish hair- that aie short and close together on the dorsum 

 and long and more separated <>n 'he pleura' and sternum, dorsulum 

 covered with adjoining or nearly adjoining and not well-defined 

 puncture-, dullish, scute! sculptured much like the dorsulum, but 

 more shining, metanotum seeming!} reticulated, more coarsely 

 sculptured than the dorsulum, tegulse, costa, subcosta and stigma 

 mostly blackish brown, rest of veins brownish stramineous, mem- 

 brane with a distinct brownish tinge, second submargina] cell appar- 

 ently longer than the first, second abscissa "t cubitus apparently 

 a- long a- the first transverse cubitus, nearly half a- long a- t he third 




,")SS PB0CBBDQTO8 OF i lit: \< \m:\n OF | N<>\., 



ami a little longer than the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus 

 received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with th<' second abscissa <>f the median vein, legs dark brown 

 covered with whitish or pale ochreous hairs except <>n t be scopa when* 

 the hairs of the upper half are brownish like the hair- at the base of 

 hind til>ia\ inner side of hind metatarsus covered with golden btfown 

 hairs, scopa loosely arranged, almosi typical, onychii dark brown, 

 claws brownish stramineous the latter with brownish tips; propodeum 

 with it- enclosure funnel shaped, not well defined, rather coarsely 



reticulated except on it- posterior face where it is finely reticulated, 

 re-t of propodeum more finely sculptured than the upper aspect of 

 the enclosure, propodeal pleurae fine reticulated and with a few indis- 

 tinctly denned punctures, posterior face of propodeum with a narrow 

 median, longitudinal sulcus; abdomen not fasciate, not sculptured 

 like the dorsulum, much more finely sculptured, reticulate, in addi- 

 tion to the reticulation there are widely separated, rather indefinite 

 puncture-, second tergite depressed distinctly less than one-half 

 hut more than one-third, abdomen covered with fine whitish hair 

 that i< elect on the basal tergite and appressed elsewhere, depressed 

 portion- of second, third and fourth tergites more or less brownish 

 toward the apex which latter is brownish stramineous, ventral aspect 

 of third tergite somewhat brownish, fimbria dark brown, pygidium 

 Mack, planate, indefinitely sculptured and with an indistinctly 

 defined central area. 



Andrena (Parandrena' mendosa new species. 



Type. — No. 4,021. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality.- — California, no further data; on the locality label 

 i- a written j. 



Has characters in common with A. (P.) andrenoides (Cresson). 



Female. — Length 8 mm.; body black, covered with whitish hairs; 

 head covered with whitish hairs, with its facial line : transf acial 

 line :: 13 : 72, axial line : temporal line :: 22 : 13, front longitudi- 

 nally finely striate, fovea! hair- whitish, fovea at most half as wide 

 the OCellocular line i- long, fovea attenuated below, extending to 

 or a little below the clypeaJ line, separated from the eye margin near 

 its upper end by a sloping nearly bare space that is nearly one-sixth 

 a- wide ;i~ the ocellocular line is long, joint 3 of antennas : 4 + 

 8 : 6, joints 4-10 inclusive wider or apparently wider than long, 

 terminal joint longer than wide and typical, antenna' black or blackish 

 pi beneath on the apical half where they are coffee-brown, face 




1916.] NATURAL S< IKM EB OF PHILADELPHIA. 589 



seemingly sculptureless excepl for distinct punctures that are appar- 

 ently at mosl not more than two puncture wi<lth- apart, clypeus 

 convex, almost gabled down the middle, with a broad highly polished 

 clypearea somewhat like in .1. .1. miserabilis Cresson, on each 

 side <>f the clypearea and above the latter the clypeus i- mostly 

 finely reticulated and punctured, the pun. •tun- mostly two to three 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus almost bare, labrarea triangular, 

 pointed at apex, at most between one-third and one-fourth as 

 long down the middle as wide at bast . labrarea apparently not more 

 than one-third a- wide a- the labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden 

 hairs, length of malar line ; length of joint :! of antenna' :: 2 : 8, 

 the elevated portion of the malar space apparently no longer than 

 the depressed portion, mandibles typical, robust, not extending 

 the outer edge of the lahruin. with their basal half black, the apical 



half mostly reddish castaneous, palpi -lender, nearly typical; thorax 

 covered with whitish hair- throughout, dorsulum finely reticulated, 

 it- punctures -hallow and from two to -i\ or more puncture widths 

 apart, notauli represented by impressed line-, scutel with it- anterior 

 half mostly polished and sparsely punctured, it- posterior half finely 

 sculptured, metanotum indefinitely sculptured, tegulse pale brownish 

 stramineous, wing base darker, subcosta blackish brown, costa 

 dark brown, stigma pale yellowish brown, rest of veins dark brownish 

 mineous, membrane with a strong brownish tinge, second sub- 

 marginal cell distinctly shorter than the first, second abscissa of 

 cubitus 'apparently hardly longer than half of the length of the first 

 transverse cubitus and about one-fifth the length of the third abscissa 



and exactly a- long a- the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, nervulu- 



ived by the median cell and forming an acute angle with the 

 second abscissa of the median vein, legs black covered with whitish 

 hair-, hair of tibise and tarsi rather ochreous, Bcopa compact, mostly 

 whitish, brownish at base, most of its hair- branched, tarsi and claw- 

 dark brownish Btramineous; propodeum with it- enclosure poorly 

 denned, funnel shaped, finely reticulated, upper aspeel of propodeum 

 outside of the enclosure finely and coarsely reticulated, pleurae of the 



propodeum finely reticulated and with a few puncture-; abdoi 



shining, almost polished, delicately reticulated, more finely and 

 sparsely punctured than the dorsulum, second termite depressed 

 between one-third and one-fourth, abdomen inconspicuously covered 



with fine whitish hair, second, third and fourth tergites with a di-t nut 



apical fringe of white hair that i- interrupted in the middle of the 



• iid and third apical margin of fourth tergite brownish, 




."•'.'ii pbo< r.l.l>l\<..- "I mi. \< \l>l MY OF [NOV., 



other depressed margins black, fimbria whitish with as ochreous 

 tinge, |>\ gidium Mack. 

 Other Locality. Nevada 11. K. Morrison). 



Andrena Parandrena) olivacea new q>' 



Type. No. 4,022. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



■ Locality. — Southern California II. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. P.) perchalybea Viereck. 



Female- Length 9.5 nun.; body greenish and almosl completely 

 covered with whitish pubescence, compared with the original descrip- 

 tion of A. (P.) perchalybea Viereck this species differs as follows: 

 head covered with long hair thai is whitish throughout, front Longi- 

 tudinally striate except above the antenna] aerobes where it is 

 indefinitely reticulate and sparsely punctured, fovea whitish, at mosl 

 hardly more if more than huh as wide as the oceHocular line is long, 

 fovea hardly attenuated below and extending only a little below 

 the antenna! line, facial line : transfacial line :: ~>7 : 72, axial line : 

 temporal line :: 31 : 20, joint 3 of antennae : joints 4 + 5 :: 9 : 7, 

 black apical third of clypeus separated from the greenish basal 

 portion by a coppery zone, brownish part of antenna' pale yellowish 

 brown; thorax covered throughout with whitish hairs, dorsulum 

 with dee]) puncture-, bounding veins of stigma, stigma and costa 

 yellowish stramineous, rest of veins pale brownish stramineous, 

 membrane almosl colorless, with a yellowish brown tinge, hair of 

 the black legs more or less whitish with an ochreous tinge, inner side 

 of metatarsi with brownish hairs, plumose hair- of scopa darker than 

 the simple hair-, lather ochreous except at the base of the tibiae where 

 they are brownish, claws brownish stramineous throughout except 

 that the hind claw- are ca-taneous at their tips; pro/Huh inn with its 

 enclosure finely sculptured on the posterior aspect, the upper aspect 

 longitudinally rugose on each side of a median longitudinal carina, 

 rest of upper asped of propodeum coarsely reticulated, rest of 

 propodeum finely reticulated and with widely separated -hallow 

 puncture-: abdomen with it- pygidium planate otherwise apparently 

 as in the original description with which this species is compared. 



AUotopotype. — The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Length 6.5 mm.; body as in the female as described above; head 

 with its facial line : transfacial line :: 46 : 53, axial line : tem- 

 poral line :: 26 : 15, temple- neither carinate nor angulate but 

 subtrapezoidal, front striatopunctate, clypeus convex, its punc- 

 tures adjoining or almost adjoining, clypeus blackish along the 




1916.] NATURAL S< II-:.\< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



anterior edge, hair- of clypeus forming a moustache that nearly 

 obscures the sculpture, clypearea wanting, malar space virtually 

 wanting, represented by uo1 much more than a shining line, 

 joint 3 of antennae : joint I :: 7 : 3 and : joints \ ■+■ 5 :: 7 : 8, 

 joint 6 and succeeding joints distinctly longer than wide, joint I 

 distinctly wider than long, antennae blackish brown throughout, 

 dullish, end joinl typical, clypearea semicircular emarginate to the 

 base, appearing as a nearly triangular tubercle on each side of the 

 emargination, at mosl the labrarea is hardly half as long as wide at 

 base, otherwise the labrum is much the same as in the female, mandi- 

 bles robusl no1 so greatly attenuated as in typical Andrena, simple, 

 black, apical half mostly reddish castaneous, palpi apparently as in 

 the female: thorax as in the female except that the dorsulum is 

 mostly coppery and no1 so distinctly or closely punctured, nervulus 

 more nearly interstitial bu1 -till received by the median cell, stigma 

 and costa dark brownish, the stigma a brighter brown than the costa, 

 otherwise the wings are similar to the wings in the female, legs Mack, 

 with whitish hairs even on tin' inner side of metatarsi and all over 

 hind tibiae, the latter at mosl distinctly less than twice as wide as 

 tesl width of hind metatarsi, otherwise the legs are much the 

 same as in the female; propodeum as in the female except that the 

 upper aspeel both outside and inside the enclosure is rather finely 

 reticulated and thai the rather coarse rugae on each side of the median 

 longitudinal carina in the female are here represented by poorly 

 developed rugae on each side of the median longitudinal carina; 

 abdomen very similar to the female abdomen, hair at apex whitish 

 with an ochreous tinge, anal process truncate with a pale stramineous 

 margin. 



Andrena Parandrena perchalybia n< 



'/ ■■ . X<>. 1,023. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Typt Locality. Washington State II. K. Morrison . 



!,'• lated to.i. /' i ,. na < '"< kerell var. 



/'•miih. Length 9.5 mm.: body dark greenish, almosi completely 

 ered with -lark brown or blackish hair: ///</</ covered with l«»Mg 

 hair that i- mostly brownish but largely blackish on tl '-nit 



longitudinally striate down the middle, punctured ami indefinitely 

 reticulate on the sides, fovea seal-brown, at mosl less than one-half 

 a- wide a- the ocellocular line i- long, bul more than one-third as 

 wide as the latter line i- 1mm, fovea attenuated l ►. - 1 . > w and reaching 

 i a little below the antenna] line, facial line ; transf aciaf line :: 




592 PRO< i i DINGS OF THE A< \m:\n 0] [Nov., 



.">7 : 71. axial line : temporal line :: ;>;> : 20, ,i<»iut :; of antenna : 

 joints 4 + 5 :: 11 : '.'. joint- 1 8 inclusive apparently thicker 

 than Long, the remaining joints not much longer than thick, antenna 

 blackish excepl that beyond the fourth joint they are brownish 

 beneath, antenna dullish, end joint typical, clypeus convex, with 

 almosl adjoining and adjoining punctures, clypeus appearing blackish, 

 almost hidden by the dark brown pubescence, clypearea wanting, 

 tabrarea at most apparently a little more than half as long as wide 'it 

 base and shaped Bomewhal thus, co, i.e., like a capital i> lying on its 

 straight Bide, labrarea at base apparently somewhat more than 

 one-third as wide as the labrum which latter has a fringe of golden 

 brown hairs, base of mandibles and eye nearly adjoining, the malar 

 >l>ace accordingly represented by not much more than a shining line, 

 mandibles black with the apical half mostly blackish castaneous, 

 typical in shape, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax covered with 

 black or dark brown hairs except around the tubercles where there 

 i- some pale, apparently ochreous hair, dorsulum finely reticulated, 

 also with shallow punctures that are as many as four puncture widths 

 apart, scut el and metanotum sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 the metanotum. however, not so definitely sculptured as the scutel, 

 tenulse and subcosta blackish-brown, bounding veins of the stigma 

 almosl concolorous with the subcosta, stigma yellowish brown, rest 

 of veins brownish stramineous, membrane with a distinct brownish 

 tinge, second -ubmarginal cell apparently longer than the first, second 

 abscissa of cubitus apparently as long as the first transverse cubitus, 

 nearly half as long as the third and a little longer than the fourth 

 abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus received by the median cell and 

 forming an acute angle with second abscissa of the median vein, 

 pubescence of the blackish legs pale brown except that the hair of 

 the fore femora is fuscous like the hair at the base of hind tibiae; 

 scopa a- in .1. (P.) subchalybea Viereck except that the simple hairs 

 are ochreous rather than whitish, hair on inner side of hind metatarsus 

 golden brown, onydiii and claws brownish stramineous, the latter 

 with castaneous tips; propodeum with its enclosure funnel shaped, 

 well defined, finely sculptured and with an irregular net work of 

 rugae in addition to the underlying sculpture, rest of propodeum 

 i.i it- pleurae sculptured much like the enclosure but more 

 coarsely so, propodeal pleurae finely reticulated and with a few crater- 

 like punctures, posterior face of propodeum with a narrow median, 

 longitudinal sulcus; abdomen not fasciate, sculptured like the 

 dorsulum but with distinctly -mailer punctures thai are apparently, 




1916.] NATURAL S< DBN< BS OF PHILADELPHIA.. 593 



in part, more widely separated, second tergite depressed distinctly 

 1<-- than one-half but more than one-third, abdomen covered with 

 fine almost whitish hair that is erect on the basal tergite and appressed 

 elsewhere, depressed portions of second, third and fourth tergites 

 more or less brownish stramineous, ventral aspecl of third tergite 

 somewhat brownish, fimbria fuscous brown, pygidium convex, black, 

 without an impressed line or other definite sculpture. 



Andrena (Parandrena) subchalybea new sp 



Type. No. 4,024. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Has character- in common with .1. /'. manifesto Fox , 



Female. — Length 8.5 nun.; body greenish, covered with whitish 

 and black pubescence; head with it- facial line : transfacial line:: 

 ")»') : »il, axial line : temporal line :: 2s : !t, covered with blackish 



In-own pubescence except on the vertex where it i- whitish tinged 

 with brown, front longitudinall) striate ami reticulate, fovea! hairs 

 seal-brown, fovea at most less than half hut more than one-third as 

 wide a- the ocellocular line Is long, separated from the eye margin 

 near it- upper end by a sloping, nearly hare space that i- nearly 

 one-sixth a- wide a- the ocellocular line i- lone, fovea attenuated 

 below and almost reaching the antenna) line, joint :; of antenna' 

 distinctly longer than 4 + .">. but distinctly shorter than I -f- ."> 4- 6, 

 joints 1 10 inclusive wider or apparently wider than long, terminal 



joint longer than wide and typical, antenna' blackish except the 

 flageJ which beyond the third joint is brownish beneath, face 

 with -hallow nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus indistinctly punc- 

 tured, appearing rippled, anterior half of clypeus dark and bronzy 

 almost hidden by the pubescence, clypearea wanting, clypeus con 

 labrarea at most not more than half a- long a- wide at base, tri- 

 angularly emarginate, labrarea apparently somewhat leas than 

 one-thud ae wide :i- the labium which latter ha- a fringe of shining 

 brownish stramineous hair-, base of mandible- and eye nearly 

 adjoining, the malar -pace accordingly represented by no' much more 

 than a Bhining line, mandible- robust, blackish, mostly castaneoufl 

 beyond the basal half, typical in shape, palpi -lender nearly typical; 

 thorax covered with whitish pubescence, tinged with lu-own on the 



pleura, thoracic pubescence mixed with black or blacki-h hair- that 



are easily overlooked on the dorsulum, all hair- black on anterior 

 and posterior margin "t mesopleure, dorsulum finelj reticulated, 

 al-o with -hallow punctures that are ;t - many a- five puncture widths 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \< \l>K.\n OF [Nov., 



apart, Bcutel and metanotum sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 thf metanotum with the sculpture indefinite on its posterior edge, 

 tegulse and wing base dark brown, subcosta and stigma almosl 

 concolorous, dark In-own, resl of veins and the membrane brown- 

 ish stramineous, second submarginal cell apparently Longer than the 

 first, second abscissa of cubitus apparently as long as the first trans* 



Verse cubitus, nearly half as long as the third and nearly one and 



one-half times as long as the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, uervulus 

 received by the median cell and forming an acute angle with the 

 second abscissa of the median vein, pubescence of the brownish to 

 black leu- whiti>h with a brownish tinge excepting the fore logs, the 

 pubescence of which is mostly fuscous, like the hairs at the base of 

 the scopa, scopa loose and nearly typical in character on the lower 

 half where its hairs arc simple and whitish, atypical on the upper 

 half where the hairs are mostly branched and brownish, hairs of 

 the inner side of hind metatarsus silvery and pale golden, onychii 

 and claws pale stramineous, the latter with dark tips; propodeum 

 with its enclosure funnel shaped, well denned, finely sculptured and 

 with an irregular net work of rugse in addition to the underlying 

 sculpture, resl of propodeum except its pleura? sculptured much like 

 the enclosure bu1 more coarsely so, propodeal pleurse finely reticulated 

 and with a few crater-like punctures, posterior face of propodeum 

 with a narrow, median, longitudinal sulcus; abdomen sculptured like 

 tin- dorsulum hut with distinctly smaller punctures that are appar- 

 ently, in part, more widely separated, second tergite depressed 

 distinctly less than one-half but more than one-third, abdomen 

 com red with fine whitish hair that is erect on the basal tergite and 

 appressed elsewhere, depressed portions of second, third and fourth 

 tergites more or less brownish stramineous, ventral aspect of third 

 tergite brownish, fimbria pale brown, pygidium distinctly longer 

 than wide at base, planate, rounded at apex, with a finely sculp- 

 tured enclosure, the sculpture of which resembles stippling, base of 

 pygidium pale brown followed by dark brown, most of pygidium 

 black. 



Andrena 'Parandrena' submoesta aen species. 



Type. No. 1,025. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California; no further data; on the locality 

 label i- ;i written "u." 



Related to .1. (P.) subchalybea Viereck. 



Female. — Length 7 mm.; body greenish and clothed with whitish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



hairs, compared with the original description of A. (P.) subchalybea 

 Viereck this species differs as follow-: head with it- facial line : trans- 

 facial line :: 40 : 57, axial line : temporal line :: 23 : 13, covered 

 throughout with whitish hair-, front finely Longitudinally striate, 

 frontal crista well developed, fovea! hairs ochreous, fovea extending 

 nearly to the antenna] line, joint :; of antennae : 4 + •"> :: 7 : 6, 

 flagel beyond the sixth joint rather pale brownish beneath, face with 

 indi-tinct punctures that are as many a- five or more puncture widths 

 apart and indistinctly reticulated, clypeus sculptured much like the 

 fae.-. clypeus mostly faintly bronzy, its tegumenl easily -ecu through 

 the rather thin pubescence, Labrarea subtruncate, almosl pointed at 

 apex, labral fringe golden; ilmrux including pleura' with whitish 

 hairs excepl on the tergum where the hair- have an ochreous tinge, 

 subcosta blackish, 3tigma and rest of veins almost concolorous, 

 dark brownish stramineous, stigma, costa and radial vein darkest, 

 second abscissa distinctly shorter than the first transverse cubitus, 

 less than half a- long a- the third and hardly longer than the fourth 

 abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the median vein, legs brownish, 



Covered with whitish or pale OChreOUS hair-, hair- of femora and 



tibiae rather ochreous, scopa almost typical in character, mostly with 

 long, simple, ochreous hair-, hair- along the upper edge shorter, 

 darker- and branched, hair at base of scopa brownish, hair on under 

 side of metatarsi golden, onychii and claw- a- well a- the -mall tarsal 

 joint- yellowish stramineous, the claw- with dark tip-: propodeum 

 with it- enclosure poorly defined, finely, rather indistinctly reticulate 

 except for some feeble rugae down the middle and along the basal 

 margin, rest of the upper aspect or the propodeum more distinctly 

 reticulated; abdonu n with the second t < t Li 1 1 « ■ depressed hardly more 

 than one-fourth, tergites satiny, ventral aspect of fir-t and Becond 

 tergites also brownish, second third and fourth tergites with a dis- 

 tinct apical hand of appressed whitish hair- that is interrupted 

 medially on the second and third tergites, fimbria pale golden 

 brown, pygidium mostly hidden by the fimbria, it- apex nearly 

 pointed and blackish. 



Andrena Ptilandrena) francisca 



No. 1,026. The .\cadein\ of Natural Sciences of I'hila- 

 d( Lphia. 



Tiijit Locality. California. (No further d 

 Related to l . P. i a idea territa « lockerell. 



ale. Length 9.5 mm.; body bluish, covered mostly with 




596 PROCEEDINGS 01 [HE LCADBM1 OF [NOV., 



blackish hairs; compared with the original description of .1. '/'.> 

 pediculihiria Viereck this species differs as follows: head with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: (>o : <>7, axial line : temporal line :: 

 27 : 15, covered with blackish hairs except in the foveas, tin' latter 

 with seal-brown appressed hairs and long blackish hairs, fovea a! 

 most hardly one-half as wide as the ocellocular line is long, extending 



only a little below the antenna! line, separated from the eye margin 

 by a nearly hare hand thai is nearly one-sixth as wide as the greatest 

 fovea! width, front not elevated along the inner edge of the fovea, 

 joint 3 and succeeding joints of antenna 1 lost but probably the 

 anteniue are as in the species with which this is compared, clypearea 

 wanting, clypeus finely reticulated, sparsely, indistinctly punc- 

 tured, more sparsely and more indistinctly punctured than the 

 face, blackish except basal half which is greenish and coppery, 

 labrarea subemarginate, at most nearly three times as wide at 

 base as long, the emargination extending nearly one-fourth the dis- 

 tance from apex to base, labrarea about half as wide at apex as at 

 base, malar line short, its proportion probably the same as in the 

 species with which this is compared, mandibles extending to the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black, apical half partly blackish castaneous; 

 thorax covered with blackish hairs except on the dorsulum where the 

 hairs are mostly ochreous interspersed with black hairs and on the 

 -cut el and the metanotum where the hairs are all ochreous, dorsulum 

 dullish, finely reticulated, somewhat more closely punctured than in 

 the species with which this is compared, notauli represented by 

 almost elevated line-, scute! sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum indefinitely sculptured, wing base blackish brown, stigma 

 throughout and all veins except subcosta and membrane dull 

 brownish stramineous, nervulus interstitial, forming an acute angle 

 with the second abscissa of the median vein, legs blackish brown, 

 covered with blackish hair- except on the inner surface of the 

 hind metatarsi where it is pale seal-brown, scopa with blackish, 

 feathery hairs throughout; propodeum with its enclosure separable 

 from the surrounding area only by reason of being impunctate, 

 without a median, longitudinal raised line, rest of upper aspect of 

 propodeum greenish blue, sparsely punctured and reticulated, the 

 reticulation nearly the same as in i he enclosure, most hairs of upper 

 aspect of propodeum ochreous, resl of propodeum with blackish 

 hair-, propodeal pleura' greenish blue; abdomen with its tergum 

 bluish, not fasciate but covered throughout with blackish hairs ex- 

 cept on the first and -<-cond segments where there arc some ochreous 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



hairs, fimbria blackish brown, pygidium blackish, slightly convex 

 near apex and nearly pointed. 



Andrena (Ptilandrena) nubilifascia n. u sp< 



Type. — No. 4.027. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality- Southern California (H. K. Morrison , 



Related to -1 . /'. pattidifovea Viereck. 



Female. — Length ll."> mm.; body Mack, mostly covered with 

 whitish hairs, compared with the original description of .1. P. 

 pediculihirta Viereck, this species differs as follow-: head with it- 

 facial line : transfacia] line :: 35 : 23, covered with whitish hairs 

 except on the labium and mandibles where the hair- are brown- 

 ish, fovea' with whitish hair- throughout, separated from the eye 

 margin near it- upper end by a nearly hare hand thai is nearly 

 one-fourth as wide as the greatest fovea! width, front not elevated 

 along the inner edge of fovea, joint :; of antennae : I f ."> :: 10 9, 

 joints 1 and 5 apparently thicker than long, the succeeding joints 

 longer than thick, face nearly as closely and nearly as distinctly 

 punctured as the clypeus, the punctures seemingly al mosl two 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus indistinctly reticulated, and cov- 

 ered with distinct adjoining or almost adjoining punctures, clypeus 

 hardly elevated above the apical margin, labrarea a little more 

 than three times as wide ;i t base as long down the middle and a 



little more than halt a- wide at apex as a! ba.se, malar line : joint 



:; of antenna' nearly :: 1 : 1<>: thorax covered with thin whitish 

 hair-, dorsulum dullish, sculptured much like the clypeus but with 

 it- reticulation more distinct, notauli represented by a shining line. 

 scute! mostly more densely sculptured than tin' dorsulum, it- an- 

 terior edge shining, metanotum culptured much like the posterior 

 half of the Bcutel, nervulus received by the ftrsi discoida! cell, nearly 

 interstitial, forming an acute angle with the lir-t abscissa of the 

 discoida] vein, legs covered with dark brown to blackish hair- except 

 on the femora when- most of the hair is pale ochreous and on fore 

 tarsi where it i- pale golden brown, Bcopa with blackish brown 

 branched hair- throughout, greatesl width of mid metatarsi : greatest 

 width of hmd metatarsi :: ll : 12; propodeum with it- upper aspect 

 outside the enclosure sculptured almost like the dorsulum km not 

 so distinctly punctured; abdomen almost polished and distinctly 

 punctured, with three thin white fascia? outside of which the terj 

 are covered with blackish brown hair excepting the first and second 



and extreme sides of the third and fourth tergites where there jV more 




59S PROCEEDINGS 01 CHE A.CADEM1 (IF [Nov., 



or Less pale hair, punctures of first tergite spaced nearly as on the 

 dorsulum, second tergite with smaller, closer punctures than the 

 firsl tergite, indistinctly reticulate. Length from base of punctured 

 portion to apex i>i Becond tergite : Length of depressed margin down 



■the middle :: 2S : S, third termite sculptured much like the second. 



fourth tergite Less distinctly punctured bul more distinctly reticulated 



than the preceding tergite, tilth tergite dullish, reticulated and with 

 punctures that are nearly as Large and as sparsely or more sparsely 

 distributed than on the first tergite, fimbria dark seal-brown, 



pygidium slightly convex, nearly truncate at apex, blackish, without 

 an enclosure, indefinitely sculptured, base of pygidium pale brown. 



Andrena Ptilandrena> pediculihirta new species. 



Type. — Xo. 4,028. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body black, covered with pale ochreous 

 hairs: head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 59 : 73, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 28 : 15, covered with pale ochreous almost 

 whitish hair except in the upper half of the fovese and on the Labium, 

 front rather coarsely longitudinally striate, fovese with whitish hairs 

 on the lower half, the upper half with its hairs mostly pale seal-brown, 

 fovese at most a little more than half as wide as the ocellocular line 

 i- long, attenuated below and extending to or close to the clypeal 

 line, hardly separated from the eye margin near its upper end, front 

 welted along the inner edge of fovea, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 9 : 8, joints 4-10 inclusive apparently thicker than long, the 

 succeeding joints longer than thick, terminal joint typical, an- 

 tenna- blackish throughout, face shining, indistinctly reticulated, 

 rather indistinctly punctured, the punctures as many as three 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus convex with a narrow, dullish re- 

 ticulated clypearea down the middle, but not extending to the 

 apex, clypeus on each side of and below the clypearea reticulated 

 and punctured, more closely and distinctly punctured than the face, 

 clypeus decidedly elevated above the apical margin, the elevated 

 edge with a shining border that i- nearly sculptureless, clypeus 

 thinly hairy its surface not at all hidden by the hairs, labrarea 

 truncate, nearly four times as wide at base as long down the middle 

 and apparently exactly as long down the middle a- wide at apex, 

 labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a 

 fringe of golden brown hairs, malar line : joint 3 of antenna? :: 15 : 8, 

 the elevated portion nearly as long as the depressed portion, mandi- 




1916.] NATURAL SCTEN< I> OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



hies typical, robust, not quite extending to the outer edge of the 

 labium, with their basal half Mack, apical half mostly 'lark reddish, 

 palpi slender, Dearly typical; thorax covered with pair ochreous, 

 almost whitish hair.-, dorsulum shining, partly indistinctly reticulated, 

 partly polished, punctured, the punctures from two to five puncture 

 width- apart, ootauli represented by an impressed line, scute! with 

 it- anterior half mostly shining almosl polished and punctured some- 

 what like the dorsulum, it- posterior half mostly dullish and finely 

 reticulated in addition to being punctured like the anterior half, 

 metanotum sculptured somewhal like the posterior half of the scutel, 

 tegulse blackish, wing base partly blackish, subcosta and lower edge 

 of stigma blackish, stigma dark reddish brown, stramineous, rest 

 of vein- and membrane dull brownish stramineous, firsl recurrent 

 vein received by the second submarginal cell before the middle and 

 not as near to the firsl transverse eubitus as the latter is to the 

 stigma on the radius, nervulus received by the median cell, nearly 

 interstitial and forming an acute angle with the second abscissa 

 of the median vein, legs Mack, tarsi and claw- mostly brownish, 

 legs covered with pale ochreous hairs, mid metatarsi distinctly wider 

 than hind metatarsi, scopa rather compact. Dearly obscuring the 

 tibia, lower edge with Dearly whitish hair-, base of scopa with pale 

 brownish hair-: propodeum with it- enclosure finely reticulate and 

 with a median, longitudinal raised hue. resl of superior aspect of 

 propodeum with a coarse network in addition to indistinct fine 

 reticulation, propodeaJ pleura' with very fine reticulation-, almost 



polished, and partly with sparse punctures; abdomen shining, in- 

 distinctly punctured and reticulated, second tergite depressed more 

 than one-third but less than one-halt', tergum with dark brownish 

 appressed hair-, and three white hair hand- the first of winch is 

 interrupted in the middle, fimbria whitish at base pale seal-brown 

 beyond the middle, pygidium convex, black, finely bul indefinitely 

 sculptured, Dearly pointed at apex without apparent impressed 

 lateral lines. 



Andrena Scrapter alamonis a 



Type. No. 1,029. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Typt Locality. Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 16, 1902 II. I.. 

 \ [• reck . Related to A. (8 Cressi >n. 



Female. Length I" nun.: body Mack, covered with whitish hair-: 

 head with n- facial line : transfacial hue ;: Q0 7 1. axial line ; tem- 

 poral hne:::;_': lit. Ma«-k. it- pubescence whitish except a 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF nit: A.CADEM1 OF [Nov., 



the lower edge of the labrum where ii is brownish, fovea with 

 whitish pubescence, fovea nearly three-fourths as wide along the 

 ocellocular line as the latter is long, hardly separated from the 

 eye margin where the ocellocular line joins the latter, fovarea not 

 trenchant, impunctate bul represented by a shining space thai 

 is widesl and almosl angulate at a poinl nearly half way between 

 the anterior ocellus and the antenna] line, fovea apparently extending 

 a little below the clypeal line and distinctly extending far below the 

 antenna] line, clypearea present, the punctures on each side <>t it as 

 many a- five or more puncture widths apart, elsewhere on the clypeus 



the punctures are from adjoining to one and two puncture widths 

 apart, clypeus convex, polished, indistinctly or not at ail reticulate, 

 mandibles almosl entirely blackish or entirely blackish, palpi typical, 

 joint 3 of antenna 1 slightly though distinctly shorter than joints 

 4 + 5 or joint :'. : 1 + 5 :: 7 : 8, antenn.se blackish brown, labrarea 

 truncate, subemarginate, apparently half again as long down the 

 middle a- wide at apex and at least three times as wide at base as at 

 apex: thorax black, with whitish pubescence that has an ochreous 

 tinge on the dorsal surface, dorsulum shining, reticulate and dis- 

 tinctly punctured, the punctures from nearly adjoining to five or 

 more puncture widths apart, scutel sculptured like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum more densely sculptured than the scutel, legs pubescent 

 like the thorax except that the hairs are mostly darker with a 

 golden to brownish golden tinge, scopa pale golden, its hairs not so 

 dense as to obscure the tegument, the arrangement and character 

 typical, tarsi rather pale brown except the metatarsi which are 

 very dark brown, hind femora with golden brown hairs at apex, 

 tegula- brownish stramineous, wing base blackish, stigma dark 

 brown, subcosta blackish, veins brownish stramineous, membrane 

 with a brownish stramineous tinge, first recurrent vein received 

 by the second submargina] cell nearer the second transverse 

 cubit u- than the firsl transverse cubitus is to the stigma, nervulus 

 received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the second abscissa of the median vein; propodeum 

 regulo-e except for the enclosure which is plicate, somewhat as in A. 

 itceg Robertson, enclosure defined by the difference in 

 sculpture and with a median longitudinal low crista; abdomen pol- 

 ished, black, without a metallic tinge, depressed portion of tergites 

 brownish, the tergites covered with setigerous punctures that are 

 seemingly sparser and distinctly -mailer than on the dorsulum; 

 abdomen appearing bare without fascia-, it- pubescence whitish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 001 



except that the fimbria is pale golden, fifth tergite punctured and 

 dullish, reticulate pygidium blackish, slightly convex, with a lateral 

 impressed line on each side near the base, smooth and apparently 

 finely sculptured. 



Recalls A. A. cressonii Robertson and allies, but is no doubt 

 properly placed in species group imitatrix. 



Andrena (Trachandrena) marioides " 



Type. No. t.i>30. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



7'<//» Locality.- Nevada (Morrison . 



Related to .1 . T. cleodora Viereck. 



Female.- Length 9 nun.: head Mack, its pubescence ochreous 

 except along the lower edge of the labium where it is brownish, fovea 

 with pale ochreous pubescence, a little more than two-third- as wide 

 along the ocellocular line as the latter is long, narrowly separated 

 from the eye margin where the ocellocular line joins the latter, fovea 

 deep it- boundary along the front almost vertical, fovarea rather 

 well developed, punctured, angulate at a point nearly half way 

 between the anterior ocellus and the antenna! line, fovea extending 

 distinctly below the antenna] line hut apparently falling short of 

 the clypeaJ line, clypearea wanting, clypeal punctures distinct, 

 adjoining or almost adjoining all over, clypeus convex, polished, 

 apparently not at all reticulate, mandibles black, reddish castaneous 

 near the middle and at ape\. palpi typical, j<»int :; nf 

 antennas : 4 + 5 :: 4 : •"). antennae blackish brown, labrarea truncate, 



apparently a- wide at apex a- long dowil the middle and at least 

 two and one-half time- a- wide at base a- at apex; Ihurn.r Mack, and 



with ochreous pubescence that ha- a reddish tinge on the dorsal 



Burface, dorsulum shining, reticulate and distinctly punctured, its 



punctures from one in five or more puncture widths apart, scute! 



sculptured like the dorsulum, metanotum densely sculptured, 



pubescent like the thorax except that the hair- of the tibiae and tarsi 



are more golden than ochreous, scopa pale golden it- hair- almosl 



dense enough t<> obscure the tegument, their arrangement ami 



character typical, tarsi and hind tibia? rather stramineous, rest <>i 



Uacki-h brown, tegulae and wing base brownish stramineous, 



•iia pale brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish brown, border 



tigma and remaining veins brownish stramineous, darker than 



the stigma, first recurrent vein received by the second submargina] 



cell nearer the second transverse cubitus than the first tram 



cubitus i- t«. the stigma, oervulus interstitial and forming an acute 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF nil. M \iu\n 01 [Nov., 



angle with the firsl abscissa of the discoidal vein; propodeum with a 

 well-defined enclosure that is finely re1 iculate and traversed by rather 

 longitudinal crooked and delicate ruga?, resl of propodeum more 

 coarsely rugose than the enclosure which latter ends in a sharp 

 edge at apex; abdomen polished, reddish with blackish stains down 

 the middle of the tergum, without a metallic tinge, depressed portion 

 of second tergite down the middle : elevated portion :: 17 : 7, 

 second, third and fourth tergites with a distind lateral fascia as in 

 .1. '/'. salicifloris Cockerell, abdomen sparsely inconspicuously 

 punctured, the punctures of the elevated portion more distind 

 than those of the depressed portion, abdominal pubescence whitish 

 with an ochreous tinge, fimbria yellowish golden, fifth tergite dullish, 

 punctured, no definite sculpture between the punctures, planate with 

 a triangular dark reddish brown area that is indistinctly punctured 

 separated from a blackish margin by an impressed line on each side 

 of the pygidium. 



In a paratopotype the nervulus is received by the median cell 

 and the firsl recurrent vein is received by the second cubital cell 

 almost in the middle. 



Other Locality. — A paratype from Ogden, Utah, May 10, 1915 

 A. Wetniorei [U. S. Biological Survey], has the abdomen reddish 

 throughout and may represent a pale race of this species. 



Andrena (Trachandrena) nortoni new species. 



Type. — No. 4,031. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California, No. 10 (E. Norton). 



Related to A. (7\) strenki Viereck and Cockerell. 



Ft male. — Length 9 mm.; body black, mostly covered with bright 

 ochreous hairs; head covered with bright ochreous hairs, with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 62 : 73, axial line : temporal line :: 

 30 : 17, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: a little more than 1 : 8, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly as long as depressed 

 portion, front polished and punctured, the punctures as many as 

 three puncture widths apart, not elevated along inner foveal edge,. 

 fovea at mosl : ocellocular line :: 12 : 14, foveal band wanting, 

 fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye 

 margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 

 I.."*: 11. fovea decidedly constricted near its middle where it is 

 apparently only one-fourth as wide as the greatest width of the 

 fovea, the latter continued below the constriction as a narrowing 

 furrow down to a point apparently on the clypeal line, fovea pale 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 603 



ochreous throughout, fovarea widesl a little below the middle of the 

 fovea, angulated at its widesl point when' it i- as wide as the 

 fovea is wide opposite the angulation of the fovarea, the latter 

 polished and with a few large punctures, face polished, with 

 large adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus slightly 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and punctured 

 much like the face, clypearea present od the apical tun-third- of the 

 clypeus, the latter thinly hairy, it- surface not at all hidden by hair-, 

 labrarea truncate, width a1 base : length down the middle and width 

 at apex :: 1<> : 4. labrarea at base half as wide as the labrum, the 

 latter with a fringe of pale golden hair-, joint 3 of antenna' : 4 + 

 5 :: 8 : L0, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding joints longer than 

 thick, antenna' blackish throughout, mandibles typical, robust, 

 extending to the outer edge of the labrum, Mack except for the apical 

 half which i- clear, dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered 



with an abundance of slender hair- which are reddish on t he dorsulum 

 where they are shorter than the ochreous hair- on the mesopleurae, 

 dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, coarsely punctured, the punc- 

 tures ranging from adjoining t<» one puncture width apart, notauli 

 represented by an impressed dullish line, mesopleurse with pale 

 ochreous hair-, except along the upper margin where the hair- are 

 reddish, finely reticulated and mostly covered with -hallow, adjoining 

 pit-, scute! hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum except for 

 being less reticulate and distinctly shining, metanotum hairy and 

 sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculpture i- denser, 

 , a' dark brownish stramineous, polished, wing base parti) 

 blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma brownish stra- 

 mineous with a reddish tinge, rest of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submargina] 

 cell beyond the middle and a little nearer t<> the second transvi 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus i- to the stigma od the 

 radial vein, liervnln- interstitial and forming an acme angle with the 

 fir-t abscissa of the discoidal vein, lege blackish brown except 

 tor the tarsi and hind tibiae which are more or less brownish Btra- 

 mineous, lege covered with pale ochreous or golden hair-, scopa 

 typical, it- hair- of a golden hue. and concoloroue throughout except 

 the hair- at base above which are Blight!} darkened, hind metatarsi 



at most apparently a- wide a- inidinet at ar-i : propodeWtl with its 



enclosure feebly defined excepl at apex where it- truncatun 



bounded by a carina, finely reticulated and in addition with a 



network of -harp rugae on each aide of a median longitudinal carina, 



in 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ICADEM1 OF [Nov., 



rest ol upper face of propodeum sculptured Bomewhal like the 

 mesopleursB but with smaller pits, and covered with pale ochreoua 

 hair, propodeal pleura with sparse shallow excavations that are 

 finely reticulated and almost hidden by the pale ochreous propodeal 

 floccus; abdomen with it > tergum polished, punctured, the puncture 

 clear cut but small, from two to many puncture widths apari 

 on the first tergite, from adjoining to one puncture width apart on 

 the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth tergites where 

 the puncture- arc larger than on the depressed portions and from 

 one to four puncture widths apart on the depressed portion- of the 

 nil, third and fourth tergites, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 6 : 1G, fifth tergite 

 shining reticulate, with it- punctures from adjoining to four punc- 

 ture widths apart, pygidium, black, planate and rounded at apex, 

 tergum with inconspicuous pale hairs, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a broadly interrupted golden ochreous hair hand. 

 fimbria golden ochreous. 



AUotopotype. — The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Length 7 mm.; body black, mostly covered with bright ochreous 

 hair; head covered with pale ochreous hairs throughout, with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 49 : 61, axial line : temporal line :: 

 26 : 10, temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, malar line : joint 3 of 

 antennae :: 1.5 : 6, elevated portion of malar space shorter than the 

 depressed portion, front dullish with adjoining, shallow pits that are 

 reticulate, laterally striate-pitted, and striate, ocellocular line : ocell- 

 occipital line :: 13 : 5, face dullish, indistinctly reticulate and with 

 large rather coarse nearly adjoining or adjoining punctures, clypeus 

 apparently not elevated directly above the apical margin, convex 

 polished and punctured much like the face, clypearea present but 

 not well developed and confined to the anterior half, sculpture of 

 the clypeus nearly hidden by the moustache, labrarea truncate, width 

 at base : length down the middle :: 9 : 2.5, width at apex : length 

 down the middle :: 4 : 2.5, labrarea at base apparently a little more 

 than half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale 

 golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 :: 6 : 10, joint 4 and following 

 joint.- from a little more than twice as long as thick to nearly twice 

 a- long ;t- thick, dullish, flagel somewhat undulate in outline, antennae 

 blackish throughout, mandible- atypical, robust, extending to the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical half which is 

 deal' dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of slender pale ochreous hair.-, hair- of dorsulum se< m- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 605 



ingly as long as hair of mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, finely re- 

 ticulated, coarsely punctured, the punctures ranging from adjoin- 

 ing to three puncture widths apart, notauli represented by an 

 impressed dullish line, mesopleurse with pale ochreous hair- through- 

 out, finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow, adjoining 

 pits, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum, metanotum 

 hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except thai the sculpture 

 is denser, tegulae dark blackish brown and brownish stramineous, 

 polished, wing base mostly pah- stramineous, subcosta brownish 

 stramineous with a blackish tinge, stigma brownish stramineous 

 with a reddish tinge, resi of vein- dull stramineous with a blackish 

 tinge firsl recurrent vein received by the second submargina] cell 

 beyond the middle and a little nearer to the second transverse 

 cubitus than the firsl transverse cubitus Is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, aervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first 

 abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown excepting the 

 tarsi and hind tibiae which are rather (lark brownish stramineous, 

 legs covered with pale ochreous hair-, hind metatarsi at mosl hardly 

 wider than mid metatarsi and nearly half as wide a- hind tibia at 

 apex of the latter: propodeum with it- enclosure feebly defined, not 

 Bharply truncate bul truncate at apex, finely reticulated and in 

 addition with aboul -i\ crooked, longitudinal carinas on each side of 

 a nearly straight median Longitudina] carina, resi of upper face 

 sculptured somewhal like the mesopleuras but with -mailer pita 

 and covered with pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleura' sculptured 

 apparently like the mesopleurse the sculpture nearly hidden by 

 the uniformly distributed pale ochreous hairs; abdomen with it- 

 tergum polished excepting the elevated portion- of tergites which 

 aie partly reticulate bul yet nearly polished, punctured, the punc- 

 tures small and not clear cut. from two t<. man} puncture widths 

 apart on the first tergite, from one to three puncture width- apart 

 on the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth tergites where 



the puncture- an- larger than on the depressed portions where 



the punctures are farther apart, Becond tergite with it- elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: m : 8, fifth tergite 

 with it- basal blackish portion covered with poorl) denned punc- 

 ture- thai an- as many as four puncture width- apart, rest of fifth 



tergite and exposed portion of sixth and seventh tergites strai ous, 



anal process dark brownish, emarginate, the emargination forming 

 an obtuse angle, tergura with rather conspicuous pale ochreous hairs 

 that are supplemented on the Bides of the second, third and fourth 




PROCEl DINGS "i i hi; \. \iu.\n OF V.\ 



tergites by ochreous apical hair bands, hair at apex of abdomen pale 

 ochreous. 



Oth r Locality. San Jose", < !alifornia I Hold . I toe female paratj pe 

 in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, Pennsylvania. 



Andrena (Trachandrena) quintiliformis new species. 



Type. No. 1,032. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Locality. Yosemite, Calif ornia, June 24, 1 902 (B. Chapman). 



Related to .1 . T. • quintilis Robertson. 



Female. Length 9.5 nun.; body black covered with pale and 

 blackish hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line ;: 60 : 7 1. 

 axial line : temporal line :: 30 : 17. covered with pale ochreous ! 

 excepting most of the broad part of fovea and occiput where the 

 hairs are brownish and on the labium where the hairs are golden, 

 front elevated along inner fovea! edge, coar-ely punctured the 

 puncture- from one to two puncture widths apart, fovea at most 

 nearly three-fourth- as wide as the ocellocular line is long, separated 

 from the eye margin aear the upper end by a sloping, nearly bare, 

 punctured hand that is in width : ocellocular line :: I : 13, fovea 

 decidedly constricted near it- middle where it is apparently less than 

 half as wide a- the greatesl width of the fovea, the latter continued 

 below the constriction a- a narrowing furrow down to a point appar- 

 ently a little below the clypeal line, upper half of fovea brownish, 

 i' half pale ochreous, fovarea widest a little below the middle 

 of the fovea and at it< widest point angulated and nearly :i- 

 wide a- the upper end of the narrowesl part of the fovea, fovarea 

 polished and with a few large punctures, face polished and with 

 large adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus decidedly 



elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and punctured 

 much like the face except that laterally some of the punctures are 

 confluent, clypearea present on the apical two-thirds of the clypeus, 

 the latter thinly hairy, it- surface not at all hidden by hairs, lahrarea 

 truncate, apparently exactly three time- a- wide at base as long 

 down the middle and nearly half as wide at apex as at base, labrarea 

 at base nearly two-third- a- wide a- the labrum. the latter with a 

 iriuw of golden brown hair-, malar line : joint 3 of antenna? :: 1.5 : 7, 

 the elevated portion nearly a- long a- the depressed portion, joint 

 I antennas : 4 + 5 :: 7 : '.». joint- 1 ami 5 nearly as long as 

 thick, the succeeding joint- longer than thick, antennae blackish 

 throughout, mandible- typical, robu-t. not quite extending to 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 007 



the outer edge of the Labrum, black except for part of the apical 

 half which i- dark reddish, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorny 

 with a velvety covering of coarse pale ochreous hair- except od the 

 dorsulnm where the posterior half inside the aotanli i- mostly covered 

 with coarse blackish hair-, dorsulum polished, partly indistinctly 

 reticulated, coarsely punctured, the punctures ranging from con- 

 fluent to one puncture width apart, notauli represented by an im- 

 pressed shining line, mesopleurse with pale ochreous hairs, coarsely 

 sculptured somewhat like the metanotum bu1 with larger, more 

 distinct punctures, scute! hairy ami sculptured like the anterior 

 third of the dorsulum, metanotum with hairs like on the scutel, 

 hut more densely hairy, dullish and with it- punctures less dis- 

 tinct and closer together, tegulse blackish except for a polished, 

 brownish stramineous portion, wing base blackish, -ul>c<>-ta blackish, 

 ■ ■"-la blackish stramineous, stigma dark reddish brown with a 

 blackish tinge, rest of veins blackish stramineous hut not so dark as 

 the costa, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell beyond the middle and dearer to the second transverse cubitus 

 than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 

 uervulus received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming 

 an acute angle with the second abscissa of the median vein, legs 

 black and blackish brown, claws mostly pale brown, leu- covered 

 with pale ochreous hair- except on the tibia? and tarsi where it i- 

 darker, rather pale brownish, scopa typical, it- hair- pale ochreous 

 :.t at base above where they are dark brown, mid metatarsi al 

 most apparently as wide as hind metatarsi; propodeum with it- 

 enclosure Bharply defined especially posteriorly where it- truncature 



i- hounded by a carina, finely reticulate and in addition trav- 

 ersed by at lea-t seventeen longitudinal crooked carina 

 upper a-peet of propodeum appearing to be coarsely reticulate and 



ered with pale ochre.ni- hair-, pleura- of propodeum with -p 



shallow excavations thai are finely reticulated and almost hidden 

 by the pale ochreous propodeal floccus; abdomen with it- tergum 

 polished, punctured, the punctures cleat idjoining on the 



elevated basal portion- ..i the second, third ami fourth tergites, 

 usually on.- puncture width or a little more apart on the firsl t. >] 

 and on the depressed portion of the second, third and fourth tergites, 

 ond tergite with its elevated portion down the middle ; depressed 

 portion:: LO : l">. fifth tergite with adjoining or nearly adjoining 

 punctures and reticu idium blackish, slightly convex, nearly 



pointed, with an elevated enclo rgum with inconspicuous 




608 PROCEEDINGS 01 mi: H \l>KMY OF [NOV., 



blackish hairs except at base and laterally where there arc some pale 

 hair-, second, third and fourth tergites with a medially interrupted 

 white hair band, fimbria blackish In-own. 



Other Localities.- California, one paratype with a written n on 

 the locality label, nothing more [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.]; one paratype, 

 Fallen Leaf Lake California, June 21, 1915 (A. K. Fisher) [U. S. 

 Biological Survey]. 




1916.1 NATURAL S< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. •►<>*> 



November 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the < 'hair. 



Seventy-one persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers 



under the following titles: 



•Some aboriginal sites on Green River, Kentucky," by Clarence 

 B. Moore (April 2). (For publication in the Joi RNAL. 



"The zoological position of Sarcosporidia, " by Howard Crawley 

 iril 26). 



"The flounders of the genus Bippoglossoides," by Carl L. Hubbs 

 May 3). 



"< Jold-bl led vertebrates from Costa Rica and the Canal Zone, " 



by Benry \Y. Fowler 'May is . 



"Notes <>n fishes of the orders Haplomi and Microcyprini," by 

 Benry \Y. Fowler (May 18). 



■■< »n some varieties of Thais lapillus in the Mount Desert Region," 

 by Harold L. Colton (June L2 



"New genera and species of Gastropoda," by Bruce Wade (June 



"A possible partial explanation of the \i-i!>ility and brilliancy oi 

 comets," by Daniel M. Barringer Julj l , 



"The Dervous system of < Irepidula adunca and it- development," 

 by Harold Heath ' September 18 , 



"New or little-known crane-flies from the United States and 

 Canada, Tan III." by Charles P. Alexander October 16 



"New species erf North American bees <>t" the genus Andrena from 

 of the looth meridian," 03 Henrj I.. Viereck (October 21 . 



"On Moschites verrucosa Verrill) and its allies," by S. Stillman 

 Berry (( October 24 . 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Alexander W. Biddle, M.D. 

 I kley BrintoD < !oxe, Jr. 

 Alexander Uhle, M.D. 

 Alexander I'rou n. 

 Theodore N. Ely. 



The deaths of the followin pondents were also annoui 



Elias M< tschnikoff. 



Edgar A. Smith. « 




010 PROCEEDINGS OF THB H IADEM1 01 [Di- 



li. J. L. < luppj . 

 Thomas Lauder-Brunton. 

 Edgar A. Mearns, I'. S. Army. 



I >k. Eenbi Smwki; made a communication, illustrated by Lantern 

 slides, on a collecting tour in eastern Cuba. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



C. W. Weidenbacker. 

 Arthur II. Thomas. 



A paper by Henry L. Viereck on Andtvna was ordered to be 

 published. See page 550. 



I )l :< EMBER 19. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The deaths of Edwin A. Barber and Edward P. Borden, members, 

 were announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the following 



papers: 



"Third synonymic study of the mollusks of the Department of 

 Alpes-Maritimes mentioned by Antoine Risso, with notes on their 

 classification," by Commandent E. ( 'aziot. Translated by William 

 II. Dall. (Transferred to The Xaittilus.) 



Notes on Salamanders," by Henry W. Fowler and Emmett 

 Eteid 1 >unn. 



The following annual report- were ordered to be printed: 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. fill 



REPORT OF THE RE< I fRDING SECRETARY. 



The six meetings uow provided for by the By-Laws were held 

 December 21, L915, January L8, February 1">. March 21, April 18 

 and November 21, 1916. Communications were made by William 

 P. Maun ami Daniel M. Barringer, Witmer Stone, Edwin G. Conk- 

 lin. Merkel H. Jacobs, and Benry Skinner. 



Twenty-three papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows: Henry W. Fowler, 2; William H. Dall,2; Nathan Banks, 1: 

 J. A. < .. Relm and Morgan Hebard, 1 : R. W. Shufeldt, 1 : J. Hen- 

 derson and I.. E. Daniels, I; II. A. Pilsbry, 1: George W. Tann- 

 reuther, 1: T. I). A. Cockerell, 1: Walter Sonneberg, 1: Joseph C. 

 Thompson, 1: Clarence B. Moore, 1: Howard Crawley, 1: Carl I.. 

 Hubbs, 1: Harold S. Colton, 1: Bruce Wade, I : I >. M. Barringer 

 ami Elihu Thomson, 1: Harold Heath, 1: Charles P. Alexander, 1: 

 Henrj L. Viereck, 1; S. Stillman Berry, 1 



Sixteen of these communications have been published in the 

 Pro< bedings, "Mr in the Journal, five have been returned to the 

 authors, and one await- the action of the Publication Committee. 



Six hundred ami twenty-two pages of the Proceedings with 

 thirty-two plates have been issued. We arc indebted to .Mr. ( !lari 

 B. Moore tor the third pari of the sixteenth volume of the Joi rn \i.. 

 consisting of eighty pages ami four beautiful plates in color. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard contributed $301.79 toward the expense 

 publishing the second aumber of the Proi i i dings for 1916. 



The American Entomological Societj (Entomological Section ><\ 

 the Academy has published four hundred and thirty-four pa 

 with twenty plate- of the Transai noNs, and four hundred and 

 eighty page* and twenty-five plates of the Entomologk \i. News. 

 A mu - atitled Memoirs, has been begun, of which 



hundred and forty-ont been issued. 



The M \m \t- "i ' Ioni hologi ha- been increased by our hundred 

 ami sixty-eighl ind twenty-eighl plat'-, completing 



twenty-third volume and the firsl pari of the twenty-fourth. 



The Academy's contributions to -run,,, therefore, durirj 

 pasl j • ar totals 1 ,921 ind 109 plat< 



aterruption in the exchange service due to the war 

 tn which i- made in the report of the Librarian, -till contim • 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AiADK.MV OF 



Well-bound copies of the centenary volume of the Journal and 

 of the Index to bi blu ltions were expressed to Mr. Peter II. ( lold- 

 smith, Din. tor of the Pan-American Division of the American 

 Association for Internationa] Conciliation, as a contribution to a 

 library of American books to be placed in Buenos Ayres in furtherance 

 of the admirable objecl of the society. The binding was paid for 

 by the Presidenl of the Academy. 



Kiiiht members have been elected. Fifteen deaths have been 



announced. Resignations of membership have been received from 

 Charles D. Hart, Silas L. Schumo, and John M. Reynolds. Three 

 have been dropped from the roll. 



The special appointments by the Council: the Standing Com- 

 mittees, the Councillor, the Curator of the William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections, and the Custodian of the Lea Collections, remain without 

 change. 



Under the provisions of the endowment of the Hayden Memorial 

 ( reological Award, a gold medal is to be again conferred next year 

 upon a geologist or paleontologist whose work deserves the recog- 

 nition. A committee consisting of R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., Amos P. 

 Brown, Edgar T. Wherry, Charles D. Walcott, and Henry F. Oeborn, 

 has been appointed by the Academy on the nomination of the Council, 

 to select a worthy recipient. Dr. Penrose has complied with a re- 

 quest to act as ( Shairman of the Committee. 



Revision of the Articles of Agreement with the American Ento- 

 mological Society, made December 17, 1875, and modified November 

 27, ls<)4. \va<. on the recommendation of the Council, adopted by 

 the Academy, December 21, 1915. By the revised articles the 

 Society agrees to deposit its collections in the Academy in per- 

 petuity, the Academy to take care of such collections to the best of 

 it- ability. In case of dissolution of the union, the library of the 

 Society remains in its possession. None but members of the Academy 

 can be elected members of the Society, the meetings of which for 

 scientific or business purposes must be held on the Academy's 

 premises. 



By the will of the late John T. Morris, the Academy's relation to 

 the Botanical Garden, Museum, and Library provided for therein 

 is defined. The income f $25,000 is bequeathed to the Academy 

 on the death of the testator's sister. 



A successful meeting of the American Ornithologists' Union was 

 held in the library, lecture hall, and museum from November 13 to 16. 



Six courses of lectures were delivered on Mondays from January 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



10 to May 1. Three were by Dr. Witmer Stone on wild bird life, 

 one by Dr. B. F. Royer on oral hygiene, four by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 on shells and shell fish, three by Or. Henry Skinner on insects, three 

 by Dr. Spencer Trotter on the wanderings of animal-, and three by 

 Dr. Stone on the wild flower- of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



In addition, seven afternoon lectures were delivered to students 

 of the Girls' Hiy;h School by 1 )rs. Skinn< r, Pilsbry, Moore, and Stone. 



Tlic withdrawal of Mr. Delos < Julver a- a Jessup Fund Beneficiary 

 was reported. 



Edward .1. Nolan, Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The further decrease in foreign correspondence, due to the almost 

 complete cessation of receipt- from central Europe, has resulted in a 

 -mailer total of communications for 1916 than for many years. 



No new correspondents were elected, hut the following named 

 died: Orville A. Derby, Elias Metschnikoff, Edgar A.. Smith, Jose 1 

 M. Rovirosa, R. .1. Lechmere Guppy, Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton 

 and Edgar A. Mearns. Tin decease of several other correspondents, 



:i- one of the unfortunate results of the European War, ha- been re- 

 ported, hut it has been impossible to secure satisfactory verification. 



There have been no international scientific congresses and few 

 events of scientific importance in this country in which this Academy 

 was invited to participate. Invitations were received from the 

 Kitasato Institute in Tokyo, the City Club of Philadelphia, the 

 Philadelphia Electric ' oinp.iiiY. the American Branch of the League 

 to Enforce Peace, the California Academy of Sciences, the College of 

 Engineering of the University "i fllinois and the committee in d, 

 of the fiftieth anniversary of the scientific activity of Alexander 

 Karpinsky. A letter of congratulation aenl to Professor Karpinsky 

 elicited an apprecial ive response. 



Thank- were received also from the Ohio Academy of Scien 

 for the appoint 1 1 lent of a delegate and the sending of a congratulatory 

 message and from t he American Ornithologists' Union for courti 

 received durum the recent meeting in the Academy's building. 



Miscellaneous correspond* nee was conducted a- usual, 

 tistics of the correspondence t ran -acted follow: 




614 PRO< GEDING8 "i mi: \< \m:\i\ of [Dec, 



( Communications received: 



Acknowledging the receipl of the Academy's publications 145 



Transmitting publications bo the Academy 2fl 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies .". 



Invital ions to learned gatherings, celebral ions, etc 5 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 5 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 12 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 4 



Lei ters from correspondents 2 1 



Miscellaneous letters Is 



_< _■ 



Total received 



( Communications forwarded: 



Acknowledging gifts to the library 1,001 



Requesl ins the supply of deficiencies L51 



Acknowledging gifts to the museum 106 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 4 



Lett its of sympathy and congratulation, addresses, etc 6 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 19 



Miscellaneous letters 119 



Animal report- and circular.- senl to correspondents 181 



Total forwarded 1,587 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



Tin- library of t ho Academy during the past year has been increased 

 by 6,086 additions. Of these 578 wore volumes, 5,344 wore pam- 

 phlet.- and parts of periodicals. There were L60 maps, photographs, 

 and one shei 



They weir received from the following source-: 



Exchanges 2,843 United State- Bureau of Educa- 



Isaiah V. Williamson Fund 1,062 tion 32 



United State- Departmenl of Departmenl of Marine and 



Agriculture 698 Fisheries, < Ittawa 32 



eral Appropriation for pur- Imperial Departmenl of Agri- 



chase of books 299 culture, British West Indies..... 27 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 98 Benry A. Pilsbry 27 



Author- 98 California State Commission of 



Editors 76 Agriculture 27 



B Agriculture, London.. 76 Pennsylvania Department of 



American Entomological Society Agriculture .. 20 



imological Section of the New York Agricultural Experi- 



Academy ''■'> men! Station 2 1 



North Carolina Geologic and Commission of Telegraph, Mat- 



momic Survey 52 to Grosso, Brazil 23 



Colorado Agricultural College. •! I Trustees of British Museum 22 




19 10. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61J 



Mi- H. N.Wardle 



Library of < Congress 20 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 19 



• ine < iovernment 19 



i - I department of the Interior 18 

 William .J. Fox 15 



Lmerican Union 1 1 



Pennsylvania Department <>t' 



Health 13 



Nt w York State ' 



Forestry 13 



I ' S. Department of < Commerce 



and Labor 12 



Secretary of Works, Mexico 1_' 



California Fish and < tame ( Com- 

 mission 1 1 

 American Iron & Steel Institute 10 

 Henry Skinner It) 

 Departmenl of Mines i 



land 10 



rsity of Michigan 10 



■ il Academy <>i' S 

 Museum <>t" the American Indian 



Heye Foundation 

 Publication < Committet 



Academj 7 



Edward J. Nolan 7 



Lowell < ►bservatory 7 



University Geological Survey of 



1\:i!i-:i- 7 



\ en - cultural Experi- 



ment Station 7 



I ■ ■■ ■ ; te < ieological Sur- 



vey 6 



• Ihio Biological Survey 



oksanstalt, 

 Stockholm 



Department of the Naval S( 

 vice, ( Ottawa 6 



Thomwell Museum 6 



uel < -. Dixon, M I > 6 



1 Iniversity of Wyoming 5 



Seismologic Station of Cartuja 5 



Uberl Luc 



Unitt StatesV I 



Direccion de Estudios Bio- 



1(>L' I 



New Mexico < 'ollej il- 



ture and Mechanic • I 



East Ind I menl 1 



( (iiiiini--n.ii of < Conservation, 



( Canad < i 



Wallace ' '< Levison I 



I depart menl of Agricull ui ' 



I 

 James \ • I Rehn 

 University of Tenn< 



issippi 9 J 



Survey 

 Michigan ' Ieological 



logical Survey 



Indiana University 

 Louisiana State Museum 



gical Commission of Fin- 

 land 

 Colorado Museum of Natural 



History 

 Seismologies! Society of America 

 Delaware County Institul 



Science 

 < Office National des Univ< 

 etE soles frai 5 uses- 

 igical Survey ol Alab 



< Commissioners on 1 isherii 



< lame, Massachusetts 

 lllinoi 5 ological Survey 



Maryland < ie ilogical Survey 

 1 >epartmen1 of Trade and 



toms, Australia 

 Dr. Ida A. Keller 

 State Entomologist, Illinois 



iody Mu-' 

 State Board of Charities, New 

 k 

 ( !itj I lospital 

 Harvard University 

 Wisconsin ' ieological and 

 ural History Survey 



< ieological Survey of t 

 Department of Fishi 



gal, Bihai 

 ( (bservatory of Madrid 

 United States Brewt 1 \ 

 tion 



ii ( iovernn 

 ( iovernmenl of Forn 



ni Bureau of ' ieology and 

 Mines 

 Warren Acadcn 

 pp 



'■1 of 

 Vgriculturi 

 Yale 1 r niversity 

 Mi 



Zoological 3 I Philadel- 



phia 



\ irginia < ieological H 



i Pan- \":' ri< in Scientific 



( Cuerpo dc Ingenierow dc 

 del Peru 



Bon t ham ' I 



i|e||- 



.lr 



Denarti 



■ 



! 



Albert de M 



* 

 Philadelphia Museum* 




616 PROCEEDINGS <»K THE LCADEMY OF [Dec, 



l >■ w k Shea 1 Clarence B. Moore 1 



CorneU University Agricultural Florida State Geological Survey. l 



Experiment Station 1 Jardim Botanico do Elio de 



Rockefeller Foundation l Janeiro 1 



These additions have been distributed to the several depart meats 

 of the library as follows: 



Journals 3,788 Medicine 



Agriculture 948 Mineralogy 21 



Geologj H s Bibliography 19 



Geography 1~>:> Mammalogy I s 



Hot any 127 Physical Sciences 11 



General Natural History 102 Eelminthology ~ 



Entomology 86 Chemistry 3 



Anthropology 79 Philology 3 



Ornithology.. M> Herpetology 



Ichthyology 30 Dictionaries 



Conchology 29 Encyclopedias 1 



Anatomy and Physiology 26 Miscellaneous 36 



Voyages and Travel- 26 



Among the more important works received are 



Herrich-Schaffer. Neue Schmetterlinge aus Europa, etc. 3 parts. 1856-61. 

 Meerburg. Plantse rariores coloribus depicts (Afbeeldingen van zeldzaame 



Gewassen). 17S9. 

 Eanley. An illustrated and descriptive catalogue of recent bivalve shell-. 



1842 56. An extra-illustrated copy from Hauler's own library. Presented 



by Mr. < leorge II. Clapp. 

 Nees von Esenbeck, Bornschuh und Sturm. Bryologia Germanica. 2 parts 



in 3 volumes. 1823-31. 

 Junghaus. [cones Plantarum rariorum. Cent una I. Folio. 1792. 

 Beddome. [cones Plantarum Indiae Occidentalis. Vol. I. 1868-74. 



The following journals are new to the collection: 



Addisonia. New York. 



American Entomological Society, Memoirs. 



Anthropological Institute, London. Occasional Papers. 



Arbeiten zur Entwicklungspsychologie. Leipzig. 



Board of Agriculture, London. Journal. 



California Fish and Game Commission. Teachers' Bulletin. 



Colombo Museum. Memoirs. 



Congreso de Naturali.-tas Espanoles. Actas y Memorias. 



Departmento de Agricoltura, Costa Rica. PubUcaciones. 



Department of Marine and Fisheries, Ottawa. Annual Report. 



Eugenics Review. London. 



Geographical Review. New York. 



Geoloj Leipzig. 



Jardim Botanico de Rio de Janeiro. Archivos. 



Journal of Bacteriology. New Haven. 



Journal of Ecology. London. 



Journal of Micrology. Reading, England. 



Junta de Ciencies Naturals, Barcelona. Anuari. 



[owa Naturalist. Iowa City. 



Lorquinia. Los Angeles. 



Mines Handbook. New York. 



Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture. Economic Biology-Bulletin. 



-mi of 'lie American Indian Heye Foundation. New York. Contributions. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61' 



New Jersey Department of Conservation and Development. Trenton. Annual 



Report. 

 New York MineralogicaJ Club. Brooklyn. Bulletin. 

 NewYorkStati - of Forestry. Syracuse. Bulletin. 



Notes on Rhode Island Ornithology. Bristol. 

 ohm The Journal of Science Columbus. 

 Physiological Abstracts. London 



Service < >c ilogique de 1'Indochine. Hanoi-Haiphong. Bulletin. 

 Thornwell Museum. Clinton. Smith Carolina. Annual IN • 

 Vermonl Agricultural Experiment Station. Bulletin. 



Four hundred and four volumes have been bound. 



'I'ln special catalogue of 1 k- subject to loan ha- been completed 



and i- now in use. Certain work- not included in the li>t may, by 

 order of the ( !ouncil, be borrowed with the consent of the Librarian. 



Under the revised By-law, 61 work- in 66 volumes have been 

 loaned. Seven of these are still outstanding. 1,226 works in 1,476 

 volumes have been used in the study room- by students of the 

 Academy. 



The requirement that these I k- In- registered before removal 



from the library ha- resulted in desirable convenience of access ami 

 recovery when wanted by other readers. 



\\ .'•• are under obligation to Mrs. William II. Bennett for the 

 repair and regilding of the frame containing the portrait of her 

 father, George W. Carpenter, Treasurer of the Academy from 

 December, L826, until hi- death, June 7. I860. 



six volumes and four duplicate pamphlets have been Bold. 



1M volumes were given by the Academy and 29 by tin- President 

 to I leneva I lollege, Beaver Palls, Pennsylvania, as a help in replacing 

 the library of that institution, which has been destroyed by fire. 



With the rest of the scientific and literary world we are still Buffering 



from the effects of the English embargo od I ks from Germany 



and other belligerenl nations. The hoped-for relief referred to in 

 my last report, where the subjecl is treated of at some length, ha- 

 unt been accorded, and notwithstanding strenuous efforts on the 

 part of American importers to secure concessions from the British 

 censors, what has keen called "the intellectual famine" continues. 

 The Foreign Trade Adviser of our own Department of state i- not 

 apparently able to modify the situation, although, with the Librarian 

 of Congress, he has shown e\ ery disposition to do so as far a- possible. 

 Shipments sent by way of Rotterdam have been detained on the 

 most trivial pretext-, yet it i- only under the protection oi the official 

 permits that a supplj ot current issue* and deficiencies can safelj 

 be secured. Foreign publishers rarel) prepare large edition- «.i tin- 

 work- issued by them and especially i- this the case in the presenl 




618 PROCEEDINGS 01 THE ICADEM1 01 Dec., 



deplorable condition of affairs, so that if transmissions be lost, the 

 deficiencies in sets can probably never be supplied. 

 The British Trade Adviser has recently required all institutions 



to make their own applications. It this rule be insisted upon it will 

 enormously increase the labor and uncertainties of importation. I >ur 

 own importers make application for ninety-two institutions. The 

 British official will, it is to he hoped, acknowledge the disadvantage 

 of increasing the required documents in that instance alone from 

 one to ninety-two, so that the representations of the Librarian of 

 Congress may secure a modification of this order, hut in the mean- 

 time we must cultivate such patience as we can until the world is 

 providentially restored to its normal condition. 



I am glad to again acknowledge, officially and personally, the 

 z«al and efficiency of my assistants, William .1. Fox and Furman 



Sheppard Wilde. 



Edward .1. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The year just completed finds the Academy's collections and 

 buildings in better condition than ever before. The members of 

 the museum staff have devoted their time to the care and study of 

 the material in the several departments. Larue numbers of specimens 

 have been labelled, catalogued and rearranged, while many groups 

 have been critically studied and specimens redetermined. The 

 — ion- to the museum have been numerous and of great value, 

 a- shown by the accompanying list of additions. 



Much has been done to render the exhibits more accessible and 

 more attractive. Through the appropriation' of $10,000, made at 

 the last session of the State Legislature, it was possible to -ecure 

 52 plate-glass and mahogany or oak exhibition cases, while four 

 others were purchased from the K. I). Cope Fund and ten from the 

 William S. Yaux Fund. 



With these it i- possible to complete the furnishing of the 

 Archaeological and Mammal floor- ami the firsl floor of the north 

 wing, and to transfer to new cases 1 he William S. Yaux Collection 

 of minerals and a large part of the exhibition series of mollusks. 

 Part of the transfer to the new cases ha- already been accomplished, 

 and the work will be finished during the coming year. 



For the study collection- 105 metal-covered cases, 420 glaSS- 



red boxes and 1,300 trays were secured for the accommodation 




1916.] NATURAL S< EENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. (519 



of insects, plants, mollusks, birds, and mammals. The study col- 

 lections, it should be remembered, constitute the scientific basis of a 

 museum. Specimens in the exhibition cases have, for the mosl part, 

 a comparatively limited life and in course of time have to be replaced. 

 The study specimens, however, when properly housed and protected 

 from light, dust, and insect pests can be preserved indefinitely. 



It is therefore a matter for congratulation that the immense study 

 collections of the Academy containing the types and historic speci- 

 mens of a century of scientific research are being rapidly placed 

 beyond danger and their preservation assured. 



In no one year has Buch progress in housing these collections been 

 made as in that just closed. 



Early in the year the exhibit of the Pennsylvania Department of 

 Health, which was awarded the grand prize at the Panama-Pacific 

 Exposition, was received at the Academy and installed in the gallery 

 of the Mineralogical Hall, which was temporarily allotted to the 

 State for this purpose, the installation, lighting, and guarding of the 

 exhibit all being assumed by the State. 



The exhibit has proven very attractive and instructive and has 

 attracted large numbers of visitors. 



The attendance in the museum throughoui the year has been 

 large and i- constantly increasing, especially the numbers of class* - 

 from public and private schools which come under the guidance of 

 their teachers. 



Local field work was carried on extensively by several tneml 

 of the Btaff, resulting in valuable addition- to the collection 

 fishes, crustaceans, reptiles, batrachians, etc. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued lib exploration of the 

 Indian mounds of the Southern States and has provided an additional 

 case for t he display of the valuable material secured during the year. 



Mr. J. A. ('•. belm ws& Benl to Tucson, Arizona, where, through 

 the courtesy of the American Museum of Natural History, he joined 

 an entomological expedition to the adjoining deserl regions. In 

 consideration <»t' his services the Academy will receive a valuable 



-hare of the material collected. 



Details of the work in the various department- and a list of the 



accessions are appended. 



Mammals. 

 An air-tigh1 sheet-iron room was fitted up on the fourth floor, 



ClOfle to the niaiuinali;iii study collection-, m which have been hung 

 •11 




PROCEEDINGS 01 mi. \< \M.\n OP [Dec, 



all of the tanned .-kin- «>i large mammal- which wviv formerly stored 



in the basement . This ensures their safe preservation and provides 

 ready access to them. New tag labels wen- placed upon them by 



Mr. Etehn and they were arranged in systematic order. 



A number of additional storage Cases were made available for the 



medium-sired mammal skins by the substitution of uew storage 



- in the bird department and two plate-glass and mahogany 



exhibition cases were provided from the State appropriation, com- 

 pleting the furnishing of the mammal hall. 



Twenty-four mammals have been received from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia, which have been variously prepared by the 



taxidermist a- skins or osteologica] specimen-. 



Much use has been made of the study collection during the year 

 and specimens have been loaned to N. Hollister, H. W. Ilenshaw, 

 and L. A. Fuerte-. 



Birds. 



The relaxing of the old unmounted skins in the study series of 

 Pa— en - was completed by Mr. D. E. Culver, who was a student 

 on the Jessup Fund during the first half of the year, while the re- 

 mainder of the trays and the cases have been labelled by Dr. Stone. 

 He has also transferred the skins of the larger birds to the twenty 

 new metal-covered cases provided by the State appropriation. The 

 collection of eggs has also been arranged in new cases and the old 

 wooden cabinets removed. 



A number of birds have been identified for the Zoological Society 

 during the year. 



During the summer and autumn Dr. Stone, with the assistance of 

 the taxidermist, Mr. McCadden, rearranged the greater part of the 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Collection, incorporating a 

 great deal of new material presented by the Club and relabelling a 

 large part of the exhibit. By removing the shelves and supporting 

 the groups from the back of the case a very much more attractive 

 display has been obtained. The entire series of shore-birds were 

 remounted on natural bases. 



With Mr. Rehn's help, the Guatemala and Santa Marta collections 

 received last year have been catalogued. 



Two valuable collections were also received during the present 

 year — the L. L. Jewel collection of Panama birds, purchased by 

 subscription by member- of the Academy, and an additional lot of 

 specimens from Santa Marta, Colombia, purchased from M. A. 

 Carriker. These comprise Borne 700 skin-. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



Many ornithologists have studied the collections at the Academy 

 and specimens have been loaned to J. 1'. Chapin, W. E. C. Todd, 

 and Albert Laessle. 



Reptiles and Batbachi ins. 



Mr. Henry \Y. Fowler has during the year catalogued 350 specimens 

 and given a careful supervision to the collection, replenishing alcohol 

 when necessary. 



He has also conducted extensive field work in Pennsylvania, New 

 Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia, which resulted in securing forty 

 local collection- of reptiles, batrachians and fishes. Two papers 

 were published during the year on cold-blooded vertebrates in the 

 Academy collection and two others are now in preparation. 



Fishes. 



This department has also been under Mr. Fowler's care and much 

 of the work of collecting and publication jusl described covers the 

 fishes also. Twelve large local collections of Pennsylvania fisl 

 presented by Mrs. E. B. and \Y. I. Mattern, deserve special mention, 

 a- well as a number of mounted game fishes, the gifi of Mr. A. B. 

 Loeb. 



MOLLI BKS. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, special Curator, report- specimens received 

 fmm ."»•; persons and institutions. Among the more interesting 



— ion- are a series of 'he mollu-k- collected tin- year in 1'tah 



and Idaho by Me--r-. Junius Benderson and I.. E. Daniels; several 

 hundred lots from Maine, taken by Mr. Bayard Long; a large series 



of Californian -hell- from Mr-. Oldroyd, and collection- from 



Guatemala and Panama from Messrs. S. N. Rhoads and 1). 1.. 

 Harrower, respectively. 

 Studies on the Pupillidaa for a monograph of the family have 



occupied imi-l of the time of the Special ('ut'ator. ( 'oll-lderal >!e 



addition- to our collection of these -hell- have Keen obtained from 

 various correspondents. 



Mr. E. ( '>. Vanatta ha- been occupied chiefly with the determina- 

 tion of specimens for correepondente and with labelling and arranging 

 accessions to the museum. Mi-- < laroline Ziegler ha- continued the 

 work of cataloguing the collection. 



The collection ha- been consulted by various visiting naturalists, 

 and specimens have been loaned for study to Bryant Walker, Paul 

 jch, and 3. S. B rry. « 




I 22 ri;«" BEDINGS 01 THE a< \m.\iy OF [Dec. 



1 NTSBCTS. 



Thirty metal cases and 420 boxes were Becured with the State 

 appropriation for the accommodation of the collection of Insects, 

 and Dr. Henry Skinner, head of this department, and Mr. E. T. 

 < 'rr--.ui, Jr., have -pent the greater pari of the year rearranging the 

 collections and mounting recent accessions. 



In the Diptera t he families Stral iomyiidse, Tabanida (in part i, and 



LeptidsB have been rearranged. Studies have been made of the 



Ephydridffl by Mr. ( Iresson. Thirty-two new species were described. 



In the order Coleoptera the Horn types have been numbered and 

 the families Dytiscicte, Hydrophilidse and part of the Silphidse re- 

 arranged, while many specimens have been identified and added to 

 the collection. 



The local collection has also been rearranged. 



In the Lepidoptera the American moths have been arranged in 

 the new cases a- well as all of the exotic moths, except the Noctuidse 

 and Geometridae. 



In Orthoptera Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has arranged the exotic Tetti- 

 goniidsB and portions of the Blattidae, Mantidae, and Acrididse in the 

 new eases. 



He has also continued his studies of the Brazilian Orthoptera in 

 the Academy's collection and material loaned by the U. S. National 

 Museum and Stanford University, while some time has been devoted 

 To the determining of South African collections submitted by the 

 Transvaal Museum, for which work the Academy receives a duplicate 

 series. 



Mr. Rehn spent the months of July and August in the field on 

 an entomological expedition to southern Arizona, undertaken jointly 

 with the American Museum of Natural History. Valuable collec- 

 tions were obtained, in which the Academy will share when they are 

 worked up. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard has, as in the past, given generously of his 

 time and material toward the development of the Orthoptera collec- 

 tion-. He also generously provided a preparator during part of 

 the year, who completed the mounting and labelling of the material 

 obtained in 1915 on the Hebard-Academy expedition in the West. 



Many specialists have made use of the collections during the year 

 and a loan was made to E. B. Williamson. 



Other Invertebrates. 

 Mr. Henry YV. Fowler has labelled and arranged about 200 small 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



jars of Crustacea as well as various lots of local Arachnida, Myri- 

 apoda, etc., received during the year. 



Dr. WItmer Stone collected a large series of Crustacea at Cape 

 May, New Jersey, from which groups were prepared and mounted 

 for exhibition. Bases were constructed representing sand beaches, 

 mud flats, etc., with accessories collected and prepared for the 

 purpose. Some groups of the larger mollusks were also prepared, 

 making eighteen in all, which form an instructive exhibition of the 

 more striking invertebrates of our sei coast. 



Vebtebra i i. Fossils. 



Mr. William Palmer, of the U. S. National Museum, has studied 

 the collection of fossil cetaceans from the Miocene of Maryland and 

 mhned many unnamed specimens. He has also borrowed 

 portions of the Beries for further study. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Mr. \V. 1'. Wbodring, of Johns Hopkins University, has borrowed 

 tin- series of unnamed fossils from Bowden, Jamaica, in the Academy's 

 collection and is engaged in studying and identifying them. 



Mr. Joseph Willcox has presented the Academy with a Beries of 

 specially -elected specimens of Miocene and Pliocene mollusks, 

 comprising the most perfect examples obtained by him in his many 

 years' work in the Terl iary beds of t he Soul hem States, from Virginia 

 to Florida. These make a uoteworthy exhibit in the museum and a 

 fitting memorial of Mr. Willcox's palseontological researches. 



Herbaria m. 



The continued illness of Mr. Stewardson Brown has left the 

 herbarium largely dependent upon the voluntary service of Messrs. 

 B ud Long and S. S. Van I'dt, wh<» have been in attendance a 

 large part of the year and have given personal attention to Buch 

 matters as have arisen in connection with the department. 



Mr. Long has cared for the local herbarium a- heretofore, has 

 made critical Btudies of various groups and accomplished a con- 

 siderable amount of local field work. Mr. Van Pelt has <\<-\ 

 himself mainly to the mounting of specimens for the local herbarium, 

 amounting to over 3,000 sheets. 



Miss Ada Allen has been employed in mounting plant- for the 

 general herbarium and has prepared 2,000 sheets. 



Mr. Berwynd Kauffman has been employed during part of the 




624 PROCEEDINGS OP THE &CADBM? OF l>e,-.. 



year in cataloguing and distributing the mounted plants that have 

 accumulated during the period of Mr. Brown's illness and has dis- 

 i of the greater part of them. 



Dr. Witmer Stone and Mr. Van Pelt have resorted the packages 

 of plants in the Porter collection and arranged them temporarily 

 in the 40 new metal cases provided by the State appropriation 

 placing them in systematic order, so that they may be easily con- 

 sulted. Messrs. Long and Van Pell have gone critically over Be\ era] 

 of the orders, separating the local material and duplicates. 



A number of botanists have consulted the herbarium during the 

 year and specimens were loaned to J. M. Greenman, M. L. Fernald, 

 K. K. McKenzie, Agnes ( !hase, Harold St. John, and E. S. Steele. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



From the State appropriation six new oak and plate-glass table 

 cases were secured for the William S. Vaux collection of minerals 

 and ten others wen' purchased from the William S. Yanx Fund. 

 These have been substituted for the old cases, and Mr. Samuel G. 

 Gordon, a student on the Jessup Fund, has cleansed the entire 

 collection, after which he assisted Mr. F. J. Keeley, curator of the 

 department, in selecting a series for exhibition. These were arranged 

 according to the sixth edition of Dana's System. The relabelling 

 of the collection will he undertaken at once. 



The duplicates have been arranged on trays in closets immediately 

 under the exhibition series, while the Academy's collection of minerals 

 is arranged in the lower part of the closets, following the same sys- 

 tematic arrangement. Thus for the firsl time all the general 

 collections of minerals are brought together. 



The meteorites, represent ing about 60 falls, are arranged in glass 

 3 in the entrance hall, while the local collection of minerals has 

 been removed to the first floor of the museum just beyond, where 

 it i- arranged by Mr. ( lordon in some of the old Vaux cases. Numer- 

 ous small collection- received from time to time have been gone over 

 critically and specimens of value picked out, while the duplicates 

 have been mad" up into sets for schools and other institution-. 



Mr. ( rordon made a field trip through Franklin and Adams ( 5oun- 

 ties, Pennsylvania, during the summer and secured a valuable 

 series of volcanic rocks. 



Archaeology. 



Fn.m the State appropriation two horizontal and five upright 

 exhibition cases have been provided and one mummy case. This 




1916.] NATURAL 54 [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



has made it possible to display specimens belonging to the Spear 

 collection of Polynesian material and other specimens withheld 

 from exhibition because of lack of space. A further display of 

 California and Nevada basketry from the Gottschall collection has 

 also been possible, while the archaeological collections from Egypt 

 and Europe and ethnological material from India and the Philippines 

 have been rearranged. 



The department has as heretofore been under the care of Miss 

 11. X. Wardle, who. beside the rearrangement above described, has 

 prepared numerous labels. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore ha- placed on exhibition the valuable 

 « d .j.cT - found mi hi- Green River expedition and ha- provided a 

 new horizontal exhibition case for their display. 



WiTMi.i: Stone, ( hairman, 



- MILL ( i. 1 )i\m\. 

 11 BNR1 A. PlLSBRT, 



II \.\\:\ Ti I kl.i;. 



Report of the Cub itob of the William S. Vai \ Colle< noN. 



The past year has been rendered epochal in the history of the 

 William S. Vaux collect inn by the installation of aew cases, in which 

 the entire collection has been rearranged. On completion of re- 

 labelling, which i- und<r way. the collection will !••• in creditable 

 condition. 



Accessions during the year include ten specimens of calcite and 



• rite from Yellowstone National Park, presented by Mrs. 



Walcott, and eighteen specimens purchased. Most important 



among the latter were hopeite ami parahopeite from Rhodesia and 



several met. mite-. 



1 again take pleasure in acknowledging the active and efficient 

 assistance of Mr. Samuel <i. Gordon, on whom devolved most of 

 the actual work of transferring the collection. 



Respectfully submitted, 



!•'. .1. hi. i. i.i i. ( urator Wm. S. \ "".'■ < ollection. 



REP >RTS i d I III. H.< TION 



Biolook \i. wo Mn no-, opk \\ Se< noN. The Section ha- held 

 six stated meetings during the year. 

 The Conservator reports the presentation to the Section, by 




PB(X BEMNOfl "i mi. LI \M-:.UY OF [Dec, 



Mrs. Edward S. Sayres, of Prof. Benry Carvil] Lewis' microscope, 

 Beck National, together with a ease of miscellaneous slid 

 Communications od various subjects were made by the following 



members: Hugo Bilgram, F. J. Keeley, T. Chalkley Palmer, Dr. 



Thomas S. Stewart, \V. II. Nan Sickel, S. L. Schumo, Dr. D. W.Horn 



and ( '. S. Boyer. 

 Tlu- following officers were chosen for the year 1917: 



Director Dr. J. Cheston Morris. 



Vice-Din dor T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer. 



Treasurer Dr. Thomas S, Stewart. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



I iiarles S. Boyer, Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — The Section has held six stated 

 meetings during the year, with an average attendance of ten. Three 

 members and an associate were elected. 



Communications on subjects of interest were made at each meeting. 

 Among those contributing were Henry Skinner, Philip P. Calvert, 

 James A. G. Rehn, Philip Laurent, Morgan Hebard, and J. C. Bradley. 



The following officers were elected for the year 1917: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director R. C. Williams, Jr. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Record, r ...E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Publication Committee ....E. T. Cresson, 



P. P. Calvert, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr., Recorder. 



Botanical Section.— At the annual meeting, held December 19, 

 1916, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 

 Direr or Ida A. Keller, Ph.D. 



Via -Din dor ...Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder JohnW. Eckfeldt, M.D. 



Conservator and Treasurer ...Stewardson Brown. 



I ' i.v.i. H. Smith, Director. 




1916.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. •>-< 



Mlnebalogical and Geological Section for 191(3. — The 

 - tion held four meetings, with increased average attendance. 

 Communications were made by Prof. Tin una- < '. Brown, on Paleozoic 

 Reef Deposits and on Petroleum and Natural < las in Butler County, 

 Pennsylvania: by Mr. F. Lynwood Garrison, on the World's Supply 

 of Mineral-, and by Prof. Florence Bascom, on some of the National 

 Park-. Other subjects of geological or mineralogical interest were 

 discussed. 



There were four field excursions, with an average attendance of 20. 

 The places visited were: (1) portions of the New Red Gwynedd 

 shale- and Norristown shales, also Hudson River shales, all in Bucks 

 inty; (2) certain exposures of crystalline rocks between Philadel- 

 phia and Wesi Chester; (3) crystalline rock- and their minerals 

 near the southern edge of Delaware County; (4) crystalline rocks 

 and their mineral- between Media and Newtown Square, Delaware 

 < lounty. 



The following officers of th< Section have been elected for the 

 r L917: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



I ■ -Din dor I . J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary \V. B. Davis. 



• and Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, 



I '.i n.i Smi i'ii l.i \i w, \)>i< dor. 



Ornithology m. Se< rioN. The Section has been active during 

 the year in encouraging ornithological work at the Academy. 

 The Pennsylvania Audubon Society and the Delaware Valley Or- 

 nithological Club have held their meetings in the building, with the 

 resull that a broader interesi has been taken m the ornithological 

 department and many valuable accessions have been received. 



November 13 16 the American Ornithologists' Union held its 

 annual meeting a1 the Academy, bringing to our museum leading 

 ornithologists from all parte of the United States and ( lanada. The 

 meeting was the largesi and most successful ever held by tin- Union 

 and drew to the Academy large aumbers of visitors. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 elected for the ensuing year: 



Director 3p< • • i [rotter. 



l . i -Director Spencer Morris. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ICADEM1 OF [Dec, 



Hi cordt r Stewardson Brown. 



s art lory William A. Shryock. 



- 'is, rvaior Witmer Stone. 



\\ n mi:i; Stone, ( 'onservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and members of the 

 Committee on Accounts was held December 19, 1916, with the 

 following result: 



President ..Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vi< e-Presidents ...Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D. .Sc.D., 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 

 Recording Se< retart ...Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Corresponding Secretary .!. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, .Jr. 



Librarian- Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Cl i; v\< >RS Samuel (1. Dixon, M.D.,LL.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 

 Eenry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to servethree years. Edwin S. Dixon, 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. Le Conte, M.D., 

 George Spencer Morris. 



Committee on Accounts ( "harles Morris, 



Samuel X. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstmann. 



' < )UNCIL FOR 1917. 



Ex-Offido. — Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., John Cadwalader. A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D., 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 - I)., Witmer Stone, A.M.. Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D.. George Spencer Morris. 



To 8em two years. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, William Pepper, M.D. 



To ■ • Km year.- Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles 

 Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusi \ Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Cubatob of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections Frank J. Keeley. 



' 3TODIAN OF ISAA< LiEA COLLECTION Joseph WillcOX. 



Assistant Librarian WilliamJ. Fox. 



Assistants to Curat Benry Skinner. M.D., Sc.D.. 



StewardsoD Brown, 

 Edward ( >. Vanatta, 

 1 [enry \Y. Fowler, 

 James A. ( ;. Etehn, 

 Ezra T. < Iresson, Jr. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Aw ii.eolocjy Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Hebbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David M. Mc< Jadden. 



Janitors ( lharles ( Happier, 



] >aniel Beckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Beckler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES, L917. 



Finance.- Effingham B. Morris, John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin 



S. Dixon, Walter Borstmann, and the Treasurer. 

 l'i BLicATiONS. Benry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M 



Sc.D., Benry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J 



Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 

 Library. I [enry Tuck< r, M.D.. < leorge Vaux, Jr., Frank J. I 



Witmer Stone, A.M. - D., Spencer Trotter, M.I). 

 inn tim\ \\D Lectures. Benry Skinner, M .D., Sc.D., Benrj 



A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., ( !harles Morris, .lame- \ < ,. Rehn, < 



Morris. 



I.l.lj TI< INS l\ 1916. 



Jah Waltei Sonneberg, Samuel T. Bodine, David Wilbur 



. \\ illiam S. Buntington. 

 Muni, .'!. A. L Jackson, Edward Martin, M.D. 



\\ . Weidenbacker, Arthur II. Thomas. 




030 PROCEEDINGS OF THE \« ADKMV OF llhc. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 1916. 



M \\i\i kLS. 



Captain Fbakk S. Bessok, through Mr. Nathan Griffith. Mounted Arma- 

 dillo (Tutu novemcinctum), Brownsville, Texas. 



Estate of Dr. Thomas Biddle. Skin and skull of Barbary Ape (Sin/in 

 innuua . Tangier, Morocco. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixox. Skull of Atlantic Walrus {Odobcenus rosmarus). 

 Borns of Har.tebeest (Bubalis sp.), Gemsbok (Oryx gazella), Indian Buffalo 

 (Buffelua bubalis). (orator Koodoo (Strepsiceros strepsiceros) , and Domestic Ram 

 ones). Mounted head of Pacific Walrus {Odobcenus obesus). 



W. J. Fox. Skull of Dolphin {DeVphinus delphis), Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



W ii.liam D. Griscom. Skins of five Muskrats {Ondatra zibethica) [one albino] 

 and of three Brown Rata {Mux norvegicus), Salem, New Jersey. 



Dr. Joseph Kalbfus. Skin of Least Weasel (Putorius allegheniensis), Mercer 

 County, Pennsylvania. 



Keystone-Hindle? Cear Company. Tibia of horse (Equus cabaUus). From 

 under City Hall, Philadelphia. 



Mi>- Maggie Macaw. Skin of Monkey (Lasiopyga sp.) and Spotted Cat 

 . Africa. 



- oil. X. Rhoads. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonicus), Haddonfield, 

 New Jersey; Muskrat {Ondatra zibethica), Haddonfield, New Jersey. 



Dr. Henkt R. Wharton. Brown Rat (Mus norvegicus), Salem, New Jersey. 



A. P. Willets. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonicus), Haddonfield, New 



Zoological Socikty of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 Mounted: Sloth Bear (Melursus iirsimis). Skin and skull: Bonnet Macaque 

 Macacus />il<<iti/.<\ Fishing Cat (Felis viverrina), Crab-eating Dog (Canis can- 

 crivorus), Spotted Skunk (Spilogale sp.), Two-spotted Paradoxure (Nandinia 

 binotata), Polar Bear (Thalarclos maritimus), Thibetan Blue Bear (Ursus pru- 

 ts), Sewellel (Aplodontia rufa), Larger Egyptian Gerbille (Gerbillus pyrami- 

 Bairy-rumped Agouti (Dasyprocta prymnolopha), Agouti (Dasyprocta sp.), 

 Harnessed Antelope (Tragelaphus gratus), Himalayan Tahr (Hemilragus jem- 

 laicus), Northern Warthog (Phacochcerus cethiopicus) . Prepared as skin: Sewellel 

 ■lontia rufa), young Coypu Rat (Myopotamus coypu). Prepared as skeleton: 

 Meerkal {Suricaia tetradactyhi). Prepared as skull: Vulpine Phalanger 

 idpina). 



Birds. 



George B. Benners. Nesl of Yellow-throated Warbler (Dendroica dominica). 

 MlERS BlTSCH. Collection of bird skins. 



Frank M . Crawford. Eggs of Emu (Dromams novce-hoUandiai) and Whooping 

 Crane Gnu arm r><<nm . ( !ollection of eggs of various species of birds. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 031 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Seven aests and ten sets of 

 eggs of Pennsylvania birds. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Female Golden PI hrysolophuapiclua), skin. 



A. B. Loeb, through Mrs. Sol. Selig. Collection of mounted bii 



Edwahd Norms. Head and wing i>i" Blue Goose I - . Ches- 



apeake Bay. 



H. Obmsby Phillips. Skin of Screech Owl [Megascops osio . Wesl Ches 

 Pennsylvania. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. skin of Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaitu p) 

 Haddonfield, New Jersey. 



WiTMEB Stone. Sets of eggs of tin Black Skimmer and Common Tern, 

 Virginia. 



George H. Stuart, 3d. Skin of Loon Gavia immer) and < >1.1 Squaw Duck 

 (Harelda hyemalis), North Carolina. 



Dr. Henry R. Wharton. Three Bkina of Hooded Merganser [Lophod 

 cucullatus), and two skins of Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo borealis), Salem, New Jersey. 



A 1'. Wtllets. Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius pha ruckerton Bay, 



New Jersey. 



Zoologk \i. SociETi of Philadelphia. Prepared as -kin-: Indian Gray 

 Shrike [Lanius laktora), Yellow Oriole [Icterus xantho ■ . Gray Struthidea 

 Ihidea cinerea), Fish-hawk [Pandion haliaAxu earolinensis), European 

 Flamingo {Phcenicopterua roseus), and Amazona viridigenalia. Prepared as 

 -kin and sternum: Great-billed Black Cocl yptorhynchus macrorkyn- 



Prepared as skull: Greater Titmouse P01 • major Twelve eggs of 

 birds laid in the Zoological Society's Gardens. 



Purchased by subscription of members. Collection of BOO bird -kins from 

 Panama, made l>y the late L. 1 JeweL 



Purchased. < me hundred and twenty-five Bkina from Santa Marta, * !olombia ; 

 seventeen from South Georgia [aland. 



I,'; ri ill- \M> AmPHLBI \n-. 



Db. I bed Baxeb. Three turtles, Angkor Hum-. Cambodia. 



P. P. Calvebt, Small collection of reptiles and amphibian I 



Mobgam Hebabd. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Miami, Florida. 



I'liiiie Laurent. Scarlet Bnaki I ■■ op) . Gulf Hammock, 



Florida; two toad.- <Bufo juuU ri , New Jersey. 



Bai ibd Long. Five rials "i amphibians, Maine. 



Db, H. a. Ptlbbby. Horned Toad NeB Mexico. 



hit. Wmmi.i: Stone. One box tortoise Carolina), ('old Spring, 



New Jersey. 



1)k - 1 1 Swope. skin of (ire. 11 Rattlesnake {Crotaltu lepidtu , Animas, 

 New Mexico. 



Zoologk m. Society "i Philadelphia. White's Cyclodus Tiliqua 



coidet). 



a -. 



H. M. Abbott. Cling-fish I A land; jar ol G 



M n\ land. 



1: M. Abbott and Him;'. \\ . Powlkjh Collection of Babes, Anne Arundel 



< OUnty, Maryland. ' 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF mi it U>BM1 OF [Dec, 



Aij.i mim. Commission, Panama-Pacific Exposition. Collection of thirty 

 dried fishes 

 r 1" Calvebt. Small collection of fishes Costa Rica. 

 (' Daoeb. Goldfish {Caraswus avratv 

 James Donaldson. Burr Fish [Chilomycteris schoepfi). 



I l: ])iw. Jar of fishes, James River, Virginia. 



II \\ . Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Cecil County, Maryland. 



II \\ Fowleb, E. S. Mattebn, II E. Thompson, II. II Burton ami Dr. 

 F Pennell. Sixteen bottles of fresh-water fishes, Virginia, Pennsylvania, ami 

 Ni-w .1. ra 



\\ .i Fox. II".: Fish {Orihopristis chrysopterm), Sea [sle City, New Jersey, 



Morgan Bebabd. Jar of fishes, Boca Grande, Florida. 



\\ . T. [nnes. Several MoUienisia latipinna, Louisiana. 



A. B. Loeb, through Mrs. Sol. Selig. Collection of mounted fishes. 



I). McCadden. Lizard fish {Synodus f ceteris), Ocean City, New Jersey. 



1. S. and W. I. MATTEBN. Several hundred fishes, Eastern Pennsylvania: 

 ten jars of fishes, Lehigh County. Pennsylvania. 



Philadelphia Aquarium. Several groupers (Epinephelus), Key West, Florida. 



l; C Williams, Jr. Spotted File-fish (Alvtera punctata), Corson's Inlet, 

 New Jersey. 



Edward Wilson. Burr Fish (Chilomycteris schoepfi), Cape May, New Jersey. 



Recicnt Mollusca. 



Jacob Aeblt. Four land shells from Westmont, New Jersey. 



Benjamin Albert.sox. Helix hortensis Mull, from Nantucket, Massachusetts. 



J. L. Baily, Jr. Nuttattina fluxa Cpr. from La Jolla, California. 



F. C. Baker. Thirty trays of shells from New York and Korea. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Dentalium vatticolens Ray. from off San Diego, California. 



Dr. Pail Babtsch. Three species of shells from North Carolina, Utah, and 

 Montana. 



M. J. Becker. Five trays of fresh-water shells from California. 



- - Berry. Thirty trays of land and fresh-water shells from Montana and 

 California. 



E. Bethel. Oreolielix haydeni Gabb from Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 



Dr. A. P. Brown. Eight species of shells from Pennsylvania and Antigua. 



i I Bbtant. Five species of land shells from Bermuda. 



II F. Carpenter. Four species of shells from Rhode Island and Florida. 



( Ihables W. ( 'ash. /'< ''It '* magellanicus Gm. from off Nantucket, Massachu- 



Dr. Robert Clarke. Five species of land shells from Beaver Falls, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



OBOE H. Clapp. Twenty-eight trays of shells, United States, Canada, 

 and Bahamas. 



\V. F. Clapp. Seven Bpecies of Hawaiian marine .-hells. 



< M. COOKE. Thirteen trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



I.. B Cope. Polygyra hopetonmris Shutt. from [mri, Florida. 

 ■. CoPELAND. Two species of marine shells. 



L. E. Daniels. Three trays of fresh-water shells from Montana. 



J. IF Febbiss. Thirteen trays of land shells. 




1916.] NATURAL B< DSN< B8 OF PHILADELPHIA. (333 



H. W. Fowler. Forty-eighl trays of shells from the eastern I'm- 

 L. S. Fbierson. Unio tamauHpaniu Conr. from Menardville, Tex - 

 S G Gordon Four species of land shells from Adams County, Pennsylvania. 

 D. E. Barrower. Twenty trays of shells from Panama and Costs Rica 

 I purchased I. 

 Morgan Bebard. Forty-two trays of land ahells from Virginia, Florida, and 



J. 15. Henderson. Eighteen trays of ahells from New York and West Indies. 



Junius Henderson. Forty-two trays <>i" land shells from Utah, Colorado, 

 iho. 



Bete Collection. Bifidaria from Bin Wall, Cuba. 



A. A. Hinkley. S of land and fresh-water -!n-!l> from Arkansas, 



iri, and Illinois. 



Dr. A. P. HrrcHENS. // Mull, from I i ida. 



Tom Irkdat.f.. Elasm int. from Sunday Island, Kermadec Islands. 



P. Lauren 1 ] I. ■ . I from Gulf Hammock. Levy County, 



Florida. 



Dh. S. I. I.: wu Sevei ty-eighl trays of marine Bhells. 



Bayard Long. Three hundred and forty-three trays of Bhells from Maine 

 and New Jersey. 



11 Loomis. Nutialina from Japan. 



A. I.. Lovett. /' Ckll. from Corvallis, Oregon. 



H. N. Lowe. Thirty-four trays of Bhells from California and Wesl Africa. 



J. <;. Malone. Thirty-one marine Bhells from Oregon and Alaska. 



II L. Mather and II. W. Fowler. G Gm. from Leslie and 



Charlestown, Maryland. 



I. - Mattern. Two fresh-water shells from Pennsylvania. 



I)wii> McCaddem Do Say from Ocean City, New Jersey. 



I. \ M> Ilhenny. Two marine shells from Alaska. 



I. II McNeill. Poliia cry p tomphala CL from Irvington, Alabama. 



hi-. II B. Meyer. Twenty-four species of mollu 



Clarence B. Moore. To Lea from n mound mar Widov I 



Jackson County, Alabama. 



Mi~- S. Nkwun. Spondylue variant Shy. 



Mi I 3 Oldroyd. Two hundred and seventy-eight tray- of western 

 American Bhells. 

 \\ II. Over. Twenty trays of land and fresh-water Bhells from South I >al 

 Mi- R. M I'ii !:• i Two marine shells from Wildwood, New I 

 II \ Ptlsbri S< l> Three hundred and six trays <>f shells. 

 Purchased. Two hundred and thirty-six trays of shells 

 C l Rambden. Tl < 'ulian land ^ In T 1 ~ . 



W.J Raymond Foui shells from < alifonua and Oregon. 



.1 \. (. Rehm Two land shells from South Dakota and Wyoming. 

 .1 \ < ; l.'iir. and M Bebard. I fresh-water Bhells from 



•. . North ' 



shells from Virginia. 

 - '. Rhoad rhree land shells from the West Indi 

 9 Raymond R Forty-four -; hells from Jamaica and New 




634 PROCEEDINGS 01 PHE M UDEOT 01 [Dec, 



ll.ll Roney. Four species of Bhells. 

 \ D. Ki-\\k. Three marine shells from Galveston, Texe 

 \ l'. Bath i;ni« ut. Thirty-six species of land and fresh-water Bhells from 

 \\ i si Lafayette, Indiana. 



Mrs. CHARLES BcHlFFBR. Three marine shells. 



8 I. Sghumo. Opt ns micra Orb. from Moneague, Jamaica. 



Burnett Smith. Sixty-one trays of Bhells from New York. 



II. 11. Smith. Polygyra aJbolabri* major Binn. from near Elamville, Alabama. 



\\ i i\n i: StONI . Sc.D. Five trays of shells from California, New Jersey, and 

 Wisconsin. 

 1> I'm\\m\i. Three Hawaiian land shells. 

 H. W. 'I'm dell. Two species of shells from Bermuda. 



E. G. Vaxatta. Seven species of shells from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and 

 Maryland. 



T. Van Htning. Three species of land molluscs from Iowa and Florida. 



Bryant Walker. Five shells from Alabama, Michigan, and Illinois 



.1. B. WALTER. Six species of land shells from Monroe County, Pennsylvania. 



.1. WALTER and B. Long. Twelve species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Delanco, New Jersey. 



Robert Walton. Opens mauritianum Pfr. from a greenhouse in Philadelphia, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Miss H. X. Wardle. Seven species of land shells from Spruce Cabin Falls. 

 Monroe County. Pennsylvania. 



W. Webb. Elasmias wakefieldice Cox from Xew South Wales. 



H. E. Wheeler. Xineteen species of fresh-water shells from Arkadelphia, 

 Arkansas. 



J. Willcox. Pohjgyrn albolabris Say from Wilmington, Xorth Carolina. 



I'. M. Woodruff. Three species of Epiphragmophora from Oregon, etc. 



Miss Lilian Zech. Epiphragmophorn zechce Pils. from San Gabriel Mountains, 



California. 



Insects. 



Anastasio Alfaro. One hundred and thirty-one Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 

 American Museum of Xatural History. Stilpnochlora laurifolia, Jamaica. 



F. W. Armstrong. Eight Lepidoptera, Colombia. 



Nathan Banks. One Myrmosa banksi (paratype), four Mutilla serupea, 

 two Mutilla (jerijon, United States. 



[gnacio Bolivar. One Gesonia punctata, Java. 



Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Three Blattidae, Arizona, Texas. 



II. G. Bryant. Eleven Lepidoptera, Brazil. 



P. P. Calvert. Eighteen Aphids, Chestnut Hill; one Lepidopteron, Scotland. 



1. I: Casey. Twenty-five Hemiptera, Pennsylvania; fourteen Orthoptera, 

 Pennsylvania. 



D. M. Castle. One Cicada, Florida; one Megathymus yuccce, Florida. 



T. D. A. CoCKERELL. Twelve Hymenoptera, United States. 



J. W. Cockle. Seven Lepidoptera, British Columbia. 



.1. W. CoXET. Seven Lepidoptera, Western States; six, Japan. 



Bricb Daecke. One Atla nt irus davisi, Pennsylvania. 



W. T. Davis. Three Lepidoptera, Xew Jersey. 



Henry Fox. Eleven Orthoptera, Virginia. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 035 



<'.. M. Greene. Sixty-one Coleoptera, United States; Beven, Nev Jersey; 

 tour, District of Columbia; two Diptera, Pennsylvania. 



F. Haimbach. One hundred and nineteen Lepidoptera, United Stati - 



I>. E. IIahhiiwkk. One Lepidopteron, Cosl i 1 tica. 



J. El. Haskix. Fourteen Lepidoptera, California. 



Morgan Bsbard. Eighl Stenopelmatine, western United States; one 

 thousand three hundred moths, Bol Springs, Virginia; thirty-eight Lepidoptera, 

 _ui and Florida; two Lyccena lygdamas, Hot Springs, Virginia; seventeen 

 Stenopelmatus, western United States; thirty-one Blattidae, Lower California 

 and western United States; lour Blattide, United States; three hundred and 

 si\ty-<>ne Blattide, North America, Wesl Indies, Central and South America; 



one hundred and nineteen insects, Southern States. 



F. M JONES, Sis Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania. 



UNIVERSITY OF Kansas. One Blattid, Arizona. 



( '. 11. Lankester. Ten Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



Philip Laurent. Three Epizeuxti laurenti, North Carolina; ten Orthoptera, 

 Florida. 



R. A. Lei ssler. Four Satyrodes canthus futnosus, Nebraska; six Lepidoptera, 

 Nebraska. 



Carlos Lizer. Twenty— even Orthoptera, Argentina. 



\V. M. Mann. Two Myrmecoblatta rehni paratypes . Eidalgo, Mexico. 



.1. \\ . McGowan. Two Coleoptera, <'o>ta Rica. 



I. W. Mengel, Periaamia inconspicua type . South America; Catagramma 



type . South America. 

 11 Morrison. One Bymenopteron, Indiana. 



II. M. Paishlet. Two Oerris argenticoUis coty] 



Pennstlvanli State Department oi Zoology, live North American 

 Blattide. 



II. A. PlLBRRT. TWO Coleoptera, Hawaii. 



A. F. Porter. Thirty Lepidoptera, Wesl [ndies. 



C T. Ramsden. Two Isognathus rime I uba; aighl Lepidop- 



1 ul i.i ; Catopsilia aveUaneda, < ' 1 1 1 > .- 1 . 



J. A. <i. l!i.ii\. Ten North American Blattide; four Lepidoptera, I 



W. 1). ElosiNSON. One Coleopteron, Pennsylvania. 



Bbnri Skinner. Eleven Lepidoptera, California; one. Peru. 



- •nkmki) Untverbttt. Two hundred and thirty-one Orthoptera (th 

 t\ pee . I'r.i/il 



\\ 1 1 mi i- Stoni . I tae ( oleopteron, \\ isconsin. 



Untverbiti or Pbnnstlvania. Eleven Lepidoptera and one Coleopteron, 

 Florida; two Mallophaga, Africa. 



\\ C. Th< upson. Thirteen Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



i Miii. Bi \ 1 i - Nationai Mi -i ' \i Two Blattide, Texas and Ban Domingo. 



I i , Vanatta. Ten insects, I fnited S( 



Mrs B. L Weatbersbei One specimen of D ilina. 



H. B. Weiss. Bight Blattide, Nen J< i 



I;. C. Williams, Jk. Twentj Lepidoptera, Alaska; eighty-five Lepidoptera, 



•emala. 



L. \\ i n i I ol optera, Pennsj Ivania. 



42 




PROCEEDINGS OF CHE l< \I»KMV OF [Dec, 



I\\ i i; PEBB \ i i - 



( Mlicr than Insects or Molluaks. 

 I; M Ibboct Collection of crabs, Maryland. 



R M. Abbott and Henri W. Fowler. Collection of crustaceans, myriop 

 ami arachnids, Maryland. 



Benjamin Albertson. Li pus hillii I.c.-icli from Muskegel Island, Massa- 

 chusetts. 



I". ('. Baker. Two anemones and a crab from Korea. 



M .1 Becker. Bryozoa from Monterey Beach, California. 



I' 1' C w \ ebt. Five crabs, < losta Rica. 



I \ Copeland. One gorgonian and eleven spongi 



Henri W. Fowler. Collection of crustaceans and arachnids, Maryland. 



Morgan Bebard. Collection of Crustacea, Florida. 



\ T. [NNES. One crustacean from San Diego, California. 



Agnes F. ECenyon. One crustacean, Australia. 



Db S 1. Lewis. Eleven corals and echinoderms. 



Batard Long. Two Helicopsyche from Maine Two vials of crustaceans 

 from Maine. 



.1 G. Malone, Eighl starfishes, etc., from Alaska and Washington. 



E \ M( [LHENNT. One shrimp from Admiralty Hay. 



\\ E. Mi. i. ii w. Chelonibia testudinaria L. from Fortesque, New Jersey. 



Mu- 1. s. Oldrotd. Seven trays of brachiopods from California. 



H. A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. Thirty-one specimen.- of corals, crabs, etc. 



- RAYMOND ROBERTS. Three invertebrates from Massachusetts and New 

 SoUtfa Wales. 



C. Henri Honey. Two invertebrates from the Pacific Ocean. 

 Witmkr Stone, Ph.D. Eighteen groups of crustaceans and mollusks, Cape 

 May. New Jersey; Balanus eburneus Gld. from Cobbs Island, Virginia. 

 Emily H. Thomas. Eleven corals and echinoderms. 



II VY. Tbudell. One invertebrate from Bermuda. 



United States National Museum. Five barnacles, California and Cuba. 

 H. L. VlERECK. Planes minutus L. from Cape May, New Jersey. 



C. M. Wheatley. Three crustaceans, California. 



\\ in. ah. i.i Collection 'deposited). Two trays of crustacean-. 



HOMER Wheeler. Halnnus luspirius Iwvidomus Pils. from Puget Sound. 



A. P. Wm.li.t-. Mud crab (Evrypaopeus depressus) , New Jersey. 



I w ertebrate Fossils. 



Mi-- Ida II. Mover. One tray of Pyrvla from Fullerton, California. 

 M. J. Becker. Macoma congesla Conr. from Monterey, California. 

 Mr-. M. I\. Langsdorf. One hundred and sixty-five trays of Devonian 

 fossils, New York. 

 Bayard Long. Six tray- of Cretaceous fossils from New Jersey. 

 Mi-- Ethel A. Merkel. Ammonites and tun other fossils. 



D. E. Harrower. Fourteen trays of fossils from the Canal /one (purchased). 

 JOSEPH WlLLCOX. Two hundred and seven Pliocene and Miocene fossils. 



I oseiL Plants. 



Mi-- Esther A. Merkel. Coal plant. 



MlSSES Ni.ui.in-. Specimen- of foal -late with fern impressions. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G37 



Minerals. 

 Miers Bus* H. Collection of minerals. 

 Foots Mineral Com pan v. Sixteen casta of meteoric - 

 Misses Newlln. Collection of minei 

 Mi-- Emily II. Thomas. Collection of minerals. 

 Miss Grace G. Tow \. Stalagmite. 

 Wm. S. Vai x Collection. Eighteen specimens (purchasi 



Plants. 



(i. \Y. Bassett. Three local plants. 



Mh. Hin ndle, Sal ia > rtisUlata. 



< >. II. Brown. Ninety-eighl specimens of plants, Cape May. New Jersey. 



Walteb Deane. One hundred and thirty-eight specimens chiefly from 

 New Bampshire. 



Sami i.i. <'.. Dixon. I iburnum opulus, Berks County, Pennsylvania. 



Dr. J. \\ . E< efeldt. A antkU hyemaUs, Painter's Arboretum. 



William Findlat. Salix purpurea, near Philadelphia. 



Wm. J. Fox Achillea millefolium, Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



(lux"! Bebbabii m. Sabatia campanulata and Elaliru triandra, New England. 



I. I'.. Barger. Five hundred and sixt) plants chiefly from Connecticut. 



Clarence Knowlton. Three hundred and seventy plants, Mam.' and 

 chusett8. 



Benrt Bollinshed, < me hundred and forty-nine plants, Delair, New Jersey. 



Frank J. Keely, Bybrid Oak, Chester County, Pennsylvania. 



Bataro Long. Nineteen local plants. 



Bayard Long and I . \\ . Pennell. Sixty-three New Jersey plants. 



Bayard Long and Barold St. .l"ii\. Thirty-eighl plants, New Jersey and 

 Maryland. 



\\ . II Leibelbperger. Three hundred and ninety-six specimens of pi 

 ( lounty, Pennsj Ivania. 



Md3soi i:i Botanic Garden. Forty-^ix sheets of miscellaneous plants. 



.1 II. Mi \iii\i br. Pyrola chlorantha, 



K. K. M< Ki.n/.ii Caret Btraminea, Cape May, New Jer 



Ni.u Vuiik Botanii Garden. Agalinue acuta, Long Island. 



.1. p. (in- Eighteen plant-, Eastern Shore ol Maryland. 



II \\ Pretz live- hundred and seventy-one plants, Northampton and 

 Lehigh ' iounties, Pennsj Ivania 



I \\ . Pennell duo local plants. 



II \ Pilbbbi Collection of plants from New Mexico. 



W'iimii: Stone Haben I VI ' ounty, Nen Jersey. 



\\ \ Stowell Nine specimens of oaks, Clifford, Ni 



i .1, , National Museum. Polygonum dumetorum, Washington, 



I Hstricl of ( !olumbia. 



E. G. Vanatta I iv.- plant- from the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 



Proi \\ Ki.i ■ inus College Campus, Penna. 



Netherlands Commi Panama-Pacifk Exposition. Collection of 



Bandalwoo md nut-. 



Otto Bihb 3 r Pi nns) Kama foi 



I II ii nmn..-. Ten Hections of Maryland forest tn 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE LCADEM1 OF [Dec, 



Mn KOBCOPl B, ETC. 



Mas. Edward 8. Satres. Microscope and alidee formerly belonging to 

 Prof. Henry < !arvill Lewis. 



Ala B BOLOQ1 . ETC. 



C 1 Debbt. Model of native boat, Ceard, Brazil. 



( ;. IImi. Three hundred and thirty-five specimens of celts, pottery 

 fragments, etc., Trinidad and West Indies 



Ci \i;i N' r B. Moore. Important additions to the Clarence B. Moore Col- 

 lection, from burial mounds along the lower Mississippi. 

 Mi"i> Niwi.iv Indian arrows. 



Edwin H. Stulb. Head of Maori chief, made in Kauri gum. 

 Mrs. William Alukkt Si i.i.ivan. Elephant carved in plumago, Ceylon. 

 Pi ri based. Several articles of pottery. 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



639 



INDE X TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED^TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1916. 



Species described as nm- are indicah I, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abralia astrolineata .47,58 



Abraliopsis astrolineata 15 



hovlei 58 



ap. 16, 17. ."is 



Abudefduf declivif rone . lln 



mauritii 105, HO 



Acara caaruleopunctata 106,410 



\..In:t::t t" I; i «_T 1 1 1 - !^_ 



Acridium ctavuliger.. 251 



coloratura 194 



una gracilis 78 



rugosa " s 



Acrydium arenosum angustum, 106, 



L33, L34 

 a. arenosum. 106, L33, 134, 1 17 



blatchleyi L33 



dasynotum i^ s 



gibboeus 134 



Kraussj L38 



obscurum 133, L34 



ornatum 101 



paradoxa 138 



virunganum 138 



Adinia mull 126 



Admestina tilii.iii- 83 



vrheeleri 83 



Agriolimax campestria 



i ornata 70 



repent 70 



Albula vulpea 



Alt. I'm cultratue 



Alphestes multiguttatus 109 



Amalopsu 



Amaurobiufl bennetti 71 



sQvestru 71 



Amblycorypha Boridan i cai in il 



Boridana Qoridana l"- 



oblongifolifl i"~ 



rotundifolia parvipenni* i"- 



r. rotundifolia 108 



uhleri 108 



Amblyopsu spelaus 



Amblytropidia occidentals 106, 160 



Ameira festiya 100, 106 



ruthveni 106 



undulata quadrilineata 100 



ameiva prsesignia 108 



Amphitretufi pelagicua 17. 18 



Anableps anablepe 139 



< 1 « > \\- • ■ i . 139 



microlepifi 139 



Anaxipha 300 302 



puBcaria. ... 110, 300, 301,30 



VIU.,1;, 110,304 



Anchovia gilberti 101 



Andrena alamonis 599 



austrocalifornica 587 



560 



caliginofla 552 



Candida tramo 7>.">:t 



complicate 56 1 



cristata 556 



cisca 595 



friesei 568 



inclinata •'>•'>'• , 



ieonei 661 



littlefieldi 561 



lummiorum 564 



marioidea 601 



mendoe i 688 



monogonoparia 666 



Qortoni • , ><> , j 



umbilifasci i 697 



obscuripoetica 668 



oliv i • 690 



pediculihirta.. 696 



perchalybia 691 



pulvere i •">•■>'.• 



quintiliformifl 606 



.".7 I 



acuteUinitena "'7:: 



tifulva ">7.'> 



."•7'.t 



". 7 7 



Bubchalybea 691 



subi 694 




640 



I I DDK - OF THE &.< AJDBM1 Of 





Andrena Bubnigripee 681 



ata .*>s:{ 



yumorum .">s;, 



labia annulipee 105, 1 1 1 



maritime L05, 1 12 



Aniaomorpha bupreatoides, L06, 126, 



L27 



ferruginea L06, 126, L27 



rotremus interruptua I L0 



tseniatus U0 



Anolis capito 400 



liuinilis Kin 



insignia 100 



lionotua 108 



lunifrona 400 



trochihis 106, 108 



Anomalofusua 461, 162 



Antocha saxicola 196 



Anurogryllua anguatulua 291 



antularum 291 



caribeus 291 



guadeloupensis 291 



muticua 109, 290, 292 



Anyphsena incerta 7(i 



aaltabunda 70 



Aplocheilus cameronensis 126 



macrostigma 126 



panchax 126 



senegalensis t26 



xfasciatus 126 



spilauchen 426 



Aporosa tibialis 



virescens 493 



Apotettbc minutus L35, L36, 144 



Aptenopedes aptera 108 - 



rufovittata .'■',.' 



sphenarioides clara 240, 252, 253 



b. sphenarioides .108, 240, 252, 253 



Archosargus unimaculatus 102 



Arethaea phalangium ins. 253 



Argiope transversa 7^ 



trifasciata 7s 



Argyroepeira hortorum 78 



Arphia granulata L06, 175 



sulphurea L06, 17(1 



xanthoptera L06, 17 ( 



. »pe riparia 7s 



nauta argo 17, Is 



grandiformia Is 



nodosa 17,40 



pacifica 18 



sp. 16, 17. 19 



Astia vittata 



■ i\ seneus 106 



ostaricensie 389 



mexicanus 407 



• i cincticornis I'.m. 500 



picticornis 196, 500 



varicornie ','■>'■>. 500 



Atlanticua calcaratus L09, 268 



americanus 109 



Atlanticua daviai 109, 268 



dorsalia L09, ?68, 268 



gibbosua 109, 268 



monticola 101 



pachymerua 109 



teBtaceus 109,267 



Atlantolimax 



Aulonia aurantia 82 



Bactromantis virga / 21, L22 



Bairdiella ronchus. 1 10 



Balanus balai les 440-442, 145, 152 



Batistes vetula 11 1 



Basiliscus basiliscua 407 



Bath} phantes alpina 76 



angulata 76, 77 



argenteomaculata 76 



calcaratus 77 



complicata 76 



decorata 76 



inornata 76 



intricata 77 



minuta 76 



ll('l)illii>;i 76 



pallida 76 



sabulosa 76 



subalpina 76 



tristis 77 



umbratilis 76 



unimaculata 76 



zebra . 76 



Batrachidea carinata 129 



Batrachoides pacifici 412 



Bdoccplialns davisi 10S, 259, 260 



rehni 259 



sabalis 259 261 



sleighti 259-261 



subapterus 108,258,260 



Belonesox belizanus 436 



Binghamiella antipodes insularis 363 



Bittacomorpha 545 



clavipes 545 



jonc.-i 545 



occidentals 545 



sackenii 546 



Bittacomorphella 5 16 



Blatta orientalis 105, 1 19 



Blattella germanica 105, 1 18 



Brachygenys chrysargyreus. W)2 



Brycon striatums 106 



Bufomarinus 106, 107, 11 » 



typhonius 406,407. 11 I 



vaUiceps 394, Ml 



I laloptenus floridianus 251 



minor 241 



Camptonotus carolinensia 109, 268 



( !ampylacantha oUvacea 107, 207 



' 'aranx caballus 109 



crysoa 398, M)l 



hippos 101, H)9 




1916. 



NATURAL SI [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



041 



Caranx hit us 



< 'ariblatta lutea Lutea L05, 118 



i herbicola 72 



( 'astianeira cingulata 69 



descripta 69 

 longipalpis 



Centropomue undecimalis 



unionensis 109 



Ceratlnella annulipes 72 



atricepa 71 



emertoni 71. 72 



formosa 72 



moesta 72 



placida 72 



similis 71 



tinopsis alternatue 7 1 



auriculatus 7_* 



frontatue 7.' 



interpres 7_' 



oigricepe 7_' 



Ceral inoptera diaphana 105, 1 1^ 



< !euthopnilus blatchleyi 269 

 . cilipee Li 



grandis ?70, 271 



heroe .-. 0, 271 

 lapidicola 109, 272 274 

 latens l<r.». _'7:;. _'7 1 



latibuli 109,270 

 ueglectus L09, 274 276 



( licurina placida 



( !irroteutnis meangensia 



( Jitharichthya arenaceus 



( Sinocephalus elegans 106, 



pufcher /; .'. 



( !lubiona abbottii 



americana 



canadensis 



crassipalpis 



latifrons 



lenta 



minuta 



obesa 



ornata 

 pygnuea 

 riparia . 

 rubra 



< loccidium Bchubergi 

 ( 'iilnto altilis 



calcaratus 



fidelis 



gnavus 



nybridus 



lineatus 



longitarsus 



medicinal ie 



urbanus 



< !onocephalue aigialis 



allardi 

 brevipennie 

 fascial us fasciatue 



mexicanue 

 nemoralis 

 oigropleuroidi - 

 Baltans 

 BpartuuB 



tomerut 

 Btrictus 

 ' lonodon oobilis 



< kmricularia communis 



directs 



formosa 



pall 



pla< 

 ■ ophanes i 



lidula adunca 



nivea 

 ( !rypt< 



1 ■■•■[-in- punctulatu 



:.t limn antillarura 



squamosum 



1 1 igonipalpum 

 1 

 ( yrtophyllun elougatufl 



lilt, -mim.! 



ipna 

 columbiana 

 gundlachi 

 inodon bovinus 



7D 



■ 

 Hi.") 

 172, 249 

 172, 17:-! 

 i ill 

 69 

 69 



69 



tilt 

 69 



69 



..•I 



7(1 

 7il 

 70 

 7n 

 70 

 70 

 7n 

 7(1 

 7n 

 I u' i, 266 



108, 265 

 ins 265 



■ 



109, 266 

 109 265 



Mil 

 7.'. 7 1 

 73, 7 1 



I m 



n in 



179 185 



179 



106, 1JI 



I 

 UU 



■ 



I'."', i ;j 




1,1 -J 



1'KOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cyprinodon b. rubrofluvistilia L80 



oaliforniensis 



elegans 132 



eximiua 



gibbosus 



macularhu 132 



mydrua 132 



variegatua 



v. riverendi 129 



Delpbinula - 170 



Delorrhipis monoceroa 74 



1 )c!iilr«>l>atcs tiiu'toruni 390. Il)t», 111 



Dendryphantea capitatus 82 



elegans 82 



exiguua 82 



tlavipedes s - 



flayua 82 



innjgnia 82 



militaria 83 



octavua 82,83 



ornatua 82 



1 tesmoteuthis 48, 64 



pellucida 6 1 



tenera 64 



Diapheromera femorata 100, L2 1 



Dichromorpha viridis 106, 170 



Dicranomyia badia 490 



cinerea 61 ', 



Dicranoptycha germana 496 



nigripes li'7 



sobrina 197 



winnemaiia .... 4i»7 '. 500 



Dictyna cruciata 71 



decorata 71 



dubia 71 



foliacea 71 



foxii 71 



fronrlea 71 



inaxinia 71 



minuta 71 



volupis 71 



Diodon hyatrix 411 



Diplortmin radiale 409 



Diplocephalu8 crenatum 74 



Diplostyla alboventria 76 



pallida 75 



Dissosteira Carolina H k i. lsi 



Dolomedea acriptua 82 



sexpunctatua s - 



tenebrosua 82 



Dormitator maculatua 105 



Doru aculeatum LOS, 1 13 



Draasus humilia 69 



neglectus 69 



saccatue 69 



DriUiadistans 459, 160 



Drffluta 158 



communis 158, J-V.t 



major 460 



l'.laps fulviUB Ids 



Eledone verrucosa 



Elephantomya westwoodi 197 



Eleutherodactylua bocourl i 396 



humeralia 894 



nubilufi 106 



polyptychua 399 



rhodopsis 108, 1 1 I 



Ellipes minuta 109, 284 



Elliptera alexanderi 61S 



ESmpedomorpha 507 



empedoidea 508 



Enyalioidea liet.erolepis 406 



Encoptolophus sordidus 106, 17'.) 



Enoploteuthidaa .">i 



Enoploteuthis hoylei 



Eotettix 212, 213 



hebardi 



pusillus 107, 208 



signatua 107,208, 209 



Epeira cavatica . B 



cinerea 7 s 



foliata 78 



gibberosa 78 



gigaa 78 



ithaca 7s 



labyrinthea 7s 



marmorea 78 



ocellata 78 



parvula 78 



patagiata 7s 



placida 78 



prompta 78 



Bericata 78 



solopetaria 78 



Bteuata 78 



strix 78 



Epiblemum scenicum 83 



Epiplatys Bexfasciatus 1$6 



Erigone longipalpis 75 



percisa 73, 74 



persimilis 75 



Erioptera costalis 503 



(Erioptera) laticeps .">01 



(Empeda) nyctops 503 



(Mesocyphona) tantilla 502 



Eris nervosus 83 



octavus 83 



Eritettix simplex L06, L59 



Esox americanus 115 



cypho //■' 



Lucius 415 



tnasquinongy 415 



|)oi'(isiis ;/-7 



reticulatus 415 



vermiculatus 415 



Eublepharia dovii 400 



Eucinostomus californiensis 410 



barenguluB 399,404 



Eucleoteuthis 48,60 



luminosa 60, 61 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



043 



Eucleoteuthis -p. 16, 17, 60 



Euconuhifi furvua . 



Eupomacentrus fuscus 105 



Eurycotis floridana L05, 11'.' 



Euryglossa depressa sparsa :5t*>:{ 



Euryglossina oaviventrifi :{<» , 2 



bypochroma S62 



perpusilla aana :{•'>:{ 



Execbophysia plumalia 7 1 



Falcicula 301,302 



bebardi 110,302, 304, 305 



Fontinue 121 



Fundulinse 116 



Fundulus 116, 117, 125 



antillarum 41^ 120, 121 



aureus 



balbosB 128 



bermuds 121 



catenatua 122 

 chrysotua 



cubensis l_'l 



diaphanus 121 



(1. menona 121 

 dovii 



floripiimi- 123 



fonticola l-'l 



goodei 125 



adia 117 

 heteroclitua 117. 118, 120 



)i. !>:t<llU- I 17 



h. macrolepidotus 117 



bispanicua l-'l 



luciae 123 



in.ijali- 116 



iinhlfi-li 117 



oisoriue 117 



Qotatue 125 



nottii l-'"> 



parvipennia 117 

 pulvereua 



punctatua 117 



rnizophorse 121 



Bciadicui !-' '• 



seminolis 121, 122 



Buniba 116 



Btellifer 122 



Eebrinua i_'j 

 Fusufl Anomalofusue Bubetrial 



m 



< lambuaia affinia 



darienai 

 dovii 



• ili- 

 bolbroold 

 tatipuni 

 mcnieli 



lir, 

 i:t:i 



Gambuaia oicaraguensis 



punctata . 433 



( rarmaniua paradoxa 11-' 



< .:i\ enna celer 70 

 Geranomyia canadensis 186- l^ s 



certhia.. VA2 



cinereinota 490, 491 



taricensda 4'.»4 



di8tincta 188, 189 



diversa 1"" 



donungensifi , in" 



enderleini 



truatemalensia l s 7 



ibis 193 



inaignis 194 



intermedia < v ' 



knabiana 187 



lacbrymalis 



plumbeipleura 194, 196 



rostrata 193 



rufescens 191 



subinsignifi 195 



tibialia 191 



vanduzeei l ss 



virescens 



< rerrea peruvianua 1 1" 



olisthostomus 



rhombdus 104 



' rirardinichthys innominatus 127 

 ( lirardinus metallicua 



pleurospilus 137 



< rlandichthye uninotatus 

 ( tnaphosa brumalia 



conspersa 

 bumilifl 



( lobiesox tnicrospilua 112 



papillifer 1 1 1 



I ista griaea ln< 



< ronatium rubena 7_'. 7". 

 ' rongylidium i rilobatue 75 



Gonomyia 



,ih- 513 

 alexanderi 511, 513, 51 1 



blanda 512, 518 



calif or nica 512, 519 



cim 511, 514 



itella 512, 522 



f i 1 1 f - : 1 1 1 • 1 . i .Mj 



Bavibaaia .">!'_'. 521 



fl<i|i'!l- 512, •"i_'l 



galactoptera 51 



Belophila 513, 51 I 



biennis 517 



tnanca 511, 7)17 



tnathesoni 511, 518 



mexicana 513, 527 



noveboraoenais 51 



pleuralia 611,516 



puer 511, 517 



• daga 7>1 1 . 7il"> 



xlossoruc -)1 1. 518 




till 



PROt li DINGS OF I hi: \< \i>l.\l\ OF 



[Deo., 



Doinyia subcinerea ■". i:j, 52 1 



sulphurella 519 



umcolor 513, 527 



vii-L 51 



dia atripinnis 132 



( iratnmonota ornata 72 



venusta 72 



< iryllodee clarazianus 291 



gryllodee 811 



sigillatus 295 



< Sryllotalpa americana 



borealis r 278 



brevipennia 278 



Columbia 278 



bexadactyla 109 277 



longipennis 278 

 ( Eryllus arenaceus 



assimUia 109, 293, 294 



domesticus 109, 295 



firmua 294 



luctuosua 294 



neglectus 293,294 



pennsylvanicus 294 



rubens 294 



Bcudderianua 293,294 



< iymnoscirtetes pusillua 107, 207 



Babrocestum csecatum 83 



latens . 83 



peregrinum 83 



splendena 83 



Badencecus puteanus 109, 269 



Bemulon flavolineatum 402 



parra l()2 



plumieri 102 



Ihilmia agilis 70 



bimaculata 70 



Balictua brazieri 367 



confusellue I{"4. 375 



demissus 371, 37 I 



dolichocerua 370, 375 



epiensia 369 



forticornis :{72. 375 



haematopus 375 



imitana 372, 375 



lanariellufl :',::{ 375 



macrops :{":{. 37 1 



mundulua 366, 37 I 



pachycephalia 869, 375 



pulvitectus 375 



seductua 372 



semipolitua expulsus 372, 375 



spenceri 368, 375 



Bubinclinana 37 1 



supralucena .'571. 375 



tannaensifl 368 



urbanus 366,374 



Bapithua agitator agitator, 110. 308, 



a. quadratua 1 10, 309 



brevipennia 1 10, 310 



Baplochilua dovii r.'."> 



Qoripinnis 

 macrostigma 



melanopa ;.. 



Basariua boyi 83 



I [elicocranchia fisheri 6 1 



1 [elix idahoensia peripherica 

 I telophora insignia 70 



Hepatua bahianua 105 



cseruleus 105 



crestonia 1 1 1 



hepatua K)5 



Besperotettix brevipennia brevi- 

 pennia 107,210,211 

 b. pratensia L07, 210 



floridensia 107,209 



speciosue 209 



Heterandria affinis .'•.-'. 133 



formosa 136 



occidentals 



patruelis 133 



pleurospilua - 137 



Bippiscus citrinua 182, 182 



eompactus 181, L82 



irnmaculatua 182 



rugosus L06 L81, 182 



suturalis 182, 182 



texanus 180, 181 



tuberculatus 183 



variegatus 181, 182 



Hippocampoides 166 167 



serratua 466, 46" 



Holacanthus tricolor 405 



Holocentrua adscensionis mi 



siccifer loi 



suborbitals M)9 



Bomorocoryphus hoplomachus 263 

 malivolans 108,263 



Bydrargira similis 1 16, [16 



Bydrargyra zebra 122 



Bydrotnbulus 464 



oodosus 464, 4(5") 



Byla bocourti 39 1 



eximia 394 



moquardi 11 1 



punctariola 399 



Bylodes bocourti 396 



Byporhamphus unif asciatus l< > 1 



Bypsoblennius striatua 412 



Icius albovittatus 82 



elegans 83 



formosus 82 



fuligineus 83 



barti 83 



mitratua 82 



mcestus V -J 



pahnarum 82 



[guana tuberculata M)7 



Iridio bivittatua 405 



I schnoptera bolliana . 105 1 1 8 




1916.1 



NATURAL S< [ENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



045 



Ischnoptera borealis L05, 1 In 



couloniana L05, 1 16 



deropeltiformis L05, 1 1 1 



divisa 105, 1 15, 1 17 



insolita L05, 1 L8 



johnsoni 105, 1 L5 



oigricollis 105, 1 1 I 

 pensylvanica insequalis L15, 116 



p. pensylvanica 105, 1 15, 1 16 



uhleriana fulv< - 105, 1 17 



u. uhleriana 105, 1 17 



[sopisthus harroweri H»-2 



parvipinnis 104 



16 



Labia minor 

 Labidura bidens 

 Lampadioteuthids 

 Lampadoteuthis 



megaleia 

 Lamprichthyinae 

 Lamprichthys 

 Larimus breviceps 

 l.'-l'i:i- fasciatus 

 Lebistes reticulatus 

 Leptodactylus caligio 

 Leptodeira polysl i<-ta 

 Leptorhaphis infans. 

 Leptysma marginicollis 

 Libefiula americana 



americanus 

 Limia cubensis 



vittata 

 Limnobia intermedia 



rostrata 

 Limnobiorhynchus canadensi 

 Limnopbila edwardi 



irrorata 

 pens 



sylvia 

 Linyphia clathi 



r 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ~ 



confi 

 macu 



l>ln ■ . r. annulipes 



ibilis 



Littorina lil u 



pall 

 null- 



mellifolia 

 ; • 



imii 

 iniei 

 Lophocarenum 



■mi 



crenatoideum 



itiini 

 erigooo 



.'Mil 



floi 



flllMHi-lllll 



107 



no 



I7H 

 III. 142 

 III 142 



III. H-' 



71 



71 

 71 



105, 11-' 



105, 112 



K. 7)1 



52, 57 



18,52, .".7 



116 



116 



104 



138 



Iii7 

 ins 

 137 

 195 

 21 15 



138 



IS!' 



588 



531 



:,::•_' 

 53 1 



Lophocarenum miniatum 73 



montiferum 7 I 



parvum 73 



spiniferum 7:; 



tristis 7:! 

 unimaculatum 



vcnu-iuiii 7 • 



Lophomma cristata ~1 



Lucania goodei 125 



parva 126 



venusta 



Lutianus apodus i 11 -' 



Lycosa aspersa s i 



avara si 



avida 80 



communis 



exitiosa si 



frondii ola 80 



helluo so 



humilis si 



nidicola 80 



nigroventris 80 



obli ii 



pohl 



pratensis 



rabida 



relucens 



rufiventris 



scutulata 



Bimilis 



vulpina 



ithis 

 diadema 

 Lythrulon flaviguttatun 



si 

 Si 



xn 



Si 

 si 

 Si 



si 



SI) 



si 

 .M 



no 



Macneillia obscura 160 



imera brach) p . 

 orthostylus 



tcnuescens 106, 1 25 



105, 1 1 1 

 Marpiasa binut* 82 



und 



rupicola 



\l ■ 155 



155 156 

 lorranchiu maxima 6 I 



lu~ 16, 17. Is r,i 



Mclanoplus ampli 



atlani 107 



attenuate, 107, 212 21 I. 216 



231 

 I, 21 i. 216, 217, 



blatchleyi 

 borrnli* 



107 

 celal 



• I \ i ■• K)7 






l-uoi i i DiMis of the \> adi:mv OF 



[Dec, 



Melanoplua cockerelli.... 231 



confusus 107, 240,241 



deceptue 107,211,212 



decoratus 107,210,220 



deleter 241,244 



decorua 107,213 218,260 



deviufl 107,219,220 



divergenE 228 



fasciatufl 231,236 



femoratus 107, 2 16 



femur-rubrum femur-rubrum, L07, 

 238 -'lit 244 



f. propinquus 107, 239 



franciscanus 231 



furcatus H»7. 244 



!i> 211 



hebardi 107,212 214,217 



impiger 107 . _' m 



impudicus i (| 7. 237 



inconspicuus 231 



inops 5*1,222 



ialandicus 22s. _'J'.» 



juvencus 212, 231 



luridus keeleri 107,241,242 



1. luridus 107,238,241 243 



mancus 228 



minor 240 



minis 107,221,224,227,228 



morsei 219,231 



mutatus -1 1 



oigrescens ..107,231-234 



mil.il. n 107,213,214.217 



obovatipennis 219, 231 



puer 212.221.222.221. 225 



punctulatus arboreus, 108, 246, 



2 17. 2 1s 

 p. punctulatus 108, 2 Hi. 217 



querneus 107.231 234 



rotundipennis 107,221 229 



Baltator. 231 



• ilaris 107. 221.223. 224.226 



Bcudderi scudderi 107, 228-231 



xensis 230, 231 



similis 107,211 



a .cercus, 107, 221, 223. 22 1. 

 227 228 



strumosus 107, 221, 224, 22?| 228 



Bylvaticus 211 



ayrvestris 107, 222, 228, 229 



tepidus 219,231 



tribuloides 219 



tribulus 107,219,220 



viridipee 211,212,231 



walshu 107, 231, 233-236 



Mirmiria alacris 106, 156 



bivittata 106, 156 



intrrtexta 106, 156 



vigflans 156, 157 



Miraria formifoides 68 



loriKip'-- 68 



Microcentrum retinerve 108, 256 



Microcentrum rhombifolium L08, 256 



Microgobiue mirafloreosis 1 12 



Mioroneta complicata 77 



distincta ... 77 



Baveola .... 77 



frontata 77 



gigantea ... 77 



Catena 77 



longitubue .. 76 



Luteola 77 



minutissima 77 



olivacea 76 



palustrie 77 



quinquedentata 77 



Microphyea ingersolli convexior ... 



Mimetus epeiroides 71 



interfector 71 



Miogryllus verticalifl 109, 295 



Misumena foliata 79 



georgiana 79 



placida 80 



rosea 79 



Misumessus asperatus 79,80 



Mogosoplistus slossoiu 285 



MoUiemsia latipinna 437, 438 



sphonops 438 



sphenops .393, 406, 438 



s. tropica 392 



Molophilus f ultonensis 505 



nova-csssariensis 506, 507 



pubipenni.s 505 



ursinus 507 



Moschites challengeri 47, 48, 49 



Muiiil curema 401, 409 



Murajna clepsydra 409 



Myrmecophila pergandei 109, 284 



Mytilus chilis 110. 111,442,445,452 



Narona exrmia 155 



Nautilus macromphalus 47, 65 



pompilius 47, 65 



spirula 50 



Nemat olampas ~>> 



regalis 45,46,47,50,57 



Nemobius ambitiosus 109, 288 



bruneri 109,289 



carolinus carolinus 109, 290 



confusus 109,290 



cubensis cubensis 109, 289 



fasciatus fasciatus 109, 286, 288 



f. socius 109,287 



griseu.s funeralifi 109, 288 



maculatus 109, 287, 288 



palustris aurantius 109 



p. palustris 109,290 



Neoconocephalus caudellianus .108, 262 



oxilis-canor is 108, 262 



melanorhinus 262 



mexicanus 261 



retusus 108,262 



robustus crepitans 108, 262 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



(547 



Neoconocephalus triops 108, 261, 262 



velox ' 108 



Neotettixbolivari 135, 136, / ,/ 



bolteri, 106, 135-137, 139, 1 13 1 15 

 coarctatue L35, L36, L37, / 1 1 



femoratus 106, 138, 141 



bancocki 135, 137 



bolivari longipennis L35, 136 

 proavue L06, l- - LS9 



rotundifrona L35, 136, / ',i 



variabilis 135 137, /.,/ 



Neoxabea bipunctata 1 L0, 298 



Nomotettix cristatus arcuatus, 106, 

 L28, 129, L31, L33 

 c. atavus / W, 13] 



c. borealis L28, 129 



c. compressus, 106, 128, 129, 130, 



132 



c. cristatus. 106, 128, 129, 131, L32 



c. denticulatus /■»'/. 132 



c. floridanus L28, L2 I 



Norope auratus 4os 



Notropifl bifrenatus 125 



Ocyale undata v >- 



< kiontofusus 163 



< tiloiituxiphiilniiu apterum 11 

 CEk^nthus angustipennis 109, 295, 296 



exclamationis L09, 295 



latipenuis 1 10 298 



aigricoraie 109, -'"7. 298 



niveua 10 



pini 110,298 



quadripunctatus 10 



< >L'illn;i cayorum 105 

 < lugonyx bollianus 123 



Bcudderi 106, 122, 123 



uhleri /.' 



< hachidiopsifi 



corya :<77 



glaciate 



gronlandica 876 178 



Ulantolimax bannai :i7t; 



pacifies 

 boteuthu l>:iiik-n 17, 60 



< tpistbonema ogbnum 397, i"i 

 Orchelimum aple I 



bradleyi 108 



• 1 1 1 r 1 1 1 1 1 1 108, 26 1 



Sdicinuni 108 



uhilifrriiiiuiii 108 



laticauda 108 



militare 108,264 



minor 10C 



Buperbum 108 



viiIl 1 (| - 



« freohehx albofasciata 



341 

 barbate 841 844 



binneyi 



l.ruii 



Oreohelix carinifera .. 321, 322, 354 

 chiricahuana. 341, 344, 35 1 



clappi 341, 34 i. 354 



concentrata 341, •'> 13, 3 1 1. 352 

 c. huachucana 



cooperi, 321, 326, 341 343, 348- 



350,352,353 157 



stantoni 340 



elrodi 343,354 



ferrisffl 341, 355 



gouldL 



bacbetana 341, 355 



baydeni, 322, 324, 343, 345, 346, 



352 35 1. 355 

 h. betheli 343,347,348 



h. corrugata :W7. 343, 347, 348 

 h. gabbiana 323, 335 347, 349 

 b. bybrida 335, 347, 349 



!i. mixta 848 



bemphilli 321,322, 344,354, 355 

 li. eurekensifi 821 



bendersoni 343, 3 1 1. 3 16, 35 

 idahoensifi 3 1 1. 353 



metcalfei 341,343,344,352, 354 

 oquirrhensis 322 



peripherics, 327, 329 



. (49,350,35 

 p. albofasciata 

 p. binneyi 

 p. castaneus 

 p. multicoetata 



p aewcombi 3 '■". 3 13 



pilsbryi 341,34 



pygmsBs :<:>:* 



rugoss 334, 344, 350, 35 



rroensu 341, '■'<~>\ 



Btrigosa, 341, 343, 345 



353 

 s. buttoni 327, t46 



irnea 

 b. depressa, 322, 325 327, 



| ; 



- '1 camea 



- <\ tooelensifl 881 



tgiUs 

 .-. imitaris I K I 



-. jugalifl 



- Bubcarinata 



b, tooelensifl ■ 15, 3 16 



tenuistriata M s 



utahensifl 



vrasatcbec ifl 330 



ipai 11 343, 344, 354 



ctremitatifl 351 



ki agassizii l.'7 



albua i."» 



kiinlll 127 



cuvieri 127 



: bo 1-7 



frontosufl 



aeveni i 129 




648 



PRO* EEDINQ8 OP ill 1 1 a< ADEMT OF 



|lVr., 



stiaa ortonii 



pentlandii 127 



Oraopsu l<;:i 



eta 163, n; I 



glenni lt;:i. iii» 



iharis gryllodee 811, 31 1. 312 



saltator L10,311,312 



Baulcyi :;il 



Orphulella halophila 163, L65, L66 



olivacea, L06, L63, 164, L65, 167, 



L69, 17l' 



pelidna, 106, 161, 163, L64, 166, 



. L67, I7i) 



pratorum It;:; 



speciosa L06, 170 



sapoteca . 170 



' Irthopristis scapula . 402 



belia acuminatus .. 397 



ptila americana 7'.' 



conspurcata 79 



georgiana ... 79 



< >xyzygonectee 125 



Pachygnatha brevis 7 ( .) 



mcoooki 7t> 



xanthostoma 79 



Pachyprosopis Baturnina 362 



Paludestniia loiminqua :;_>_'. .;:; \ 



Paludina vivipara 479 



Paracolletes halictiformis 365 



Paramecium 85, 86 



Paratettix cucullatus 106, 146 



rugosua 106, 146 



toxanus 146 



Paratylotropidia beutenmuelleri, 107, 



211 



Pardalophora apiculata 183 



halaemani] 181 



phoenicoptera, 106, 180, 181, 183, 



249 



Pardosa albopatella 81 



annuluta 81 



brunnea 81 



canadensis 81 



diffusa 81 



distincta 81 



emertoni 81 



Qavipes 81 



glacialifl 81 



trra'ili- 81 



lapidicina ., 81 



nijn-opalpis 81 



minima 81 



rnodi<-a 81 



moesta 81 



montana 81 



obsoleta 81 



pallida si 



venusta 81 



Jterampelina .81 



Paroxyaatlantica 215 



Paroxya a. atlantica L08, 248 



a. paroxyoidee 2 1" 250 



clavuliger mis, _\-,i 



Hot i- Li iii .'.,/ 



boosieri _'.",] 

 Bcudderi ?, 249 

 Patula castaneua 



multicostata . 330 



peripherica 



strigosa albofasciata 



- buineyi .; )Q 



-. buttonii 



s. carnea 



s. castaneus 



s. fragilis 



_ ibbiana 323 

 3. gouldi 

 -. Eybrida 

 s. multicostata 



s. newcombi .. 330 



5. rugoaa . 334 



Paxillaobesa .106,147,148 



Pedanostethus pumilis 77 



riparius 77 



Pelamis bicolor 414 



Pellenes borealis 83 



decorus 83 



falcata 83 



Periplaneta americana 105, 119 



au-tralasiae 105, 119 



brunnea 106, 120 



Pezotettix occidentalis 235 



Phalloceros caudimaculatus 437 



Phallostethinje 416 



Phallo8tethus 416 



Phidippus albomaculatus 82 



audax 82 



castrensis 82 



electus 82 



mccooki 82 



mystaceus 82 



putnami 82 



rauterbergi 82 



tripunctatus 82 



Philaetis militaris 82 



princeps 82 



Philodena roseola 85 



Philodromus aureolas 80 



bidentatus 80 



brevis 80 



exilis 80 



expositus 80 



gracilis 80 



laticeps 80 



maculatue 80 



minu.sculus 80 



minutua 80 



ornatus 80 



pernix 80 



pictufi 80 



plaeiflus 80 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



649 



Prosthesima atra 68 



blanda 6S 



depreesa 68 

 eccleedastica 



frigida 68 



immaculata 68 

 minima 



riiluhi 



Pseudoecarus perrico Hit 

 Pseudoxiphophorus bimaculatus 136 



Psinidia fenestralis 107, l ^s 



ichlonea , 529, 530 



bradleyi 



phylla camellifolia cameUi- 



t'<.li:t 108,256,257 



c. intermedea ins. 257, 258 



elongatus 258 

 Pupilla bigranata 



blandi 



bebes 



muscorum 



Byngenes 



Purpura 1 1 1 



Pycnoscelus surinamenBis 106, 120 

 Pyramidula cronkbitei anthonj 



327 



Pyrgocorypha uncinata 1 



Radinotatum brevipenne brevi- 



penne 106, L53 



Radiocentrum 341, 343, 355 



Elana cseruleopunctata 396 



Rapa in:, 



Rhabdomastix 528 



caudata 528, 529 



monticola 528 



Rhamdia montaguensis Ki7 



Rhamphidia albitarsia 197 



Bavipes 197, 198 



[ongiroetris 199 



mainensis 197, 198 



Rbaphidolabina .'■ in 



flaveola 541,542 



Rhaphidolabis 540 



cayuga 541, 542, S4I 



modesta .Ml. ."> l_' 



neomexicana 541, 5 I-' 



polj meroides 541, ■", 12 



rubescens .Ml. 542 5 1 1 



tenuipes 541, 7' I-' 



Rhinobatos percellens ltd 



Rhomboplites aurorubens 102 



Rh ulus micropus 126 



Romalea marci 



micropti lu: 



Rupiacartes atlanticus 105 



Rypticus arenatus 102 



nigripinnis im 



' ill v.; 

 yrgtis rolii 

 murifl 




650 



PRO< 1 EDINGS 01 THE \< ADKMY OF 



[Dec., 



Sarcocystia tenella 381, 382 



Sardinella hvuneralifi 397, in l 



Sargana f68 



riscus abbreviatus 109,279,282 



acletus 109,279 



978 

 didactylus 278,279 



mexicanus 279 



vicinus 109, 278 281 



Schistocerca alutacea 107, 197-203 



americana 204 



damnifies calidior 107, 206 



■ 1. damnifica 107, 205, 206 

 obscura . 107,197-199,202 

 rubiginosa 197 203 

 seriaLs 107,204 



Schizobasis 468 



depressa 168,469 



Scbizogyna gracilis 81 



Scirtetica marmorata marmorata. 188 

 m. picta 107, 188 



Scomberomorus cavalla 398, 401 



Scorpena mystes .... ill 



Scudderiacuncata .... ins, 254 



curvicauda curvicauda. 108,254 



c. laticauda 108, 254 



furcata furoata ios, 254 



texensis U)s 254 



Seserinus paru 402 



Singa maculata 78 



truncata 78 



Sphaerium pilsbryanum 335 



Spharagemon bolli 107, 185 



coUare 187 



■ Bcudderi 187 



c. wyomingianuiD 107, 186, 187 



crepitans 107, 184 



cristatum 187 



saxatile planum 192 



Spheroides annulatus 1 1 1 



testudineus 405 



Sphyrsena barracuda 401 



guachancho . 401 



Spiropalpus spiralis 72 



Spirilla -pirula 47, 49 



Stagmomantis Carolina 106, 121 



Stauroteuthis meangensis 16, is 



Steatoda guttata 71 



marmorata 71 



triangulosa 71 



Stemonyphantea bucculentus 75 



Stenacns vitreipennis 107, 194 



Sthenoteuthis bartramii 46, 59 



Stilpnochlora marginella 10S, 254 



Strongylocentrotufi 1 1 1 



Succinea avara 327, 336 



Symmetropleura modesta 108, 255 



Symplectoteutbis luminosa I s . 60 



oualaniensis 60, 60 



SynogeleB picata 83 



Syrbula admirabilifl 106, 156 



Taobisurus steindachneri ins 



Taonius 64 



abyssicola 64 



Tarpon atlanticus 101 



Tautogolabrua adsjpersus 1 1 1 



Tetragnatba pallida 7s 



Tectaplica 157 



Bunplica 157 



Tetragnatba caudata 7^ 



pallescens 7U 



straminea 7s 



vermiformis 78 



Tetrix polymorpha / ',i>, 150 



Tettigidea armata, 106, 148, 149, 151, 



1 53 



a. depressa 151, 15_' 



brevipenne peninsulare 155 



ilavisi /."■ .'. 153 



lateralis lateralis.. 106, 148-151, 153 



1. parvipennis J-'iii 



1. polymorpha 151 



medians 149, 151 



parvipennis 149 



p. pennata 150 



prorsa 106, 147 



]). elongata 1^7,148 



spicata 106, 148 



Tettix femoratus 135-137, 145, 146 



Teucholabis oarolinensis 497 



complexa 498 



lucida 498 



Thais imbricata 446, 451, 452, 453 



lapillus 440-454 



Thargalia agihs 69 



bivittata 69 



crocata 69 



fallax 69 



perplexa 69 



Thesprotia graminis 106,124 



Thysanophora ingersolli 327, 335 



Tipulacayuga 545 



Tmeticus biaentatum 75 



brunneus 7<i. 77 



debilis 75 



distinctus 75 



flaveolus 74 



^navus 75 



humilis 74 



luxuosus 74 



maculatus 75 



minutus 75 



moestus 7"» 



obscurus 74 



pallidum 74 



palustris 75 



plumosus 74 



probal us , 75 



rusticus 74 



trident at us 72 



unicorn 74 



trilobatus 74 




L916. 



NATURAL SCIEN< BE OF PHILADELPHIA. 



651 



Toxorrhina magna 198 



muliebris 198 



Trachinotua argenteue 398 

 glaucua 



Tricyphona 536 



auripennia 537 



calcar 536 



byperborea 537 



inconstanc 536, ".:>7 



katahdin .~>:;7 



paludicola ">:?v 539 



vernalis 537 



Tridactylus apicalie 109, - ,v >:i 

 Oasipee 



bistrio 284 



bistrionicua 284 



ilUnoienaie 283 

 incertua 

 terminalia 



tibialis 283 



Trimerotropis acta 192 



rati 107, 190 L92 



cyaneipennia 193 



maritima li>7. 190, lit.' 



■mIis 107 192 



Trimicra empedi 



Trochosa rubicunds. M 



Truxalis brevio 106, 155 



ilia brevicornii 106, 155 



Turbo cornutufl 168 



Tylosurue scapularis 109 



Umbra lima U5 



Mr, 



Umbrma coroidi 104 



I fpeneue grandisquainis lln 



olabrum 169 



tuberculatum 169 • 7 « i 



Vallonia cyclophorella 



gracibcosta 



Velutina :;7n 



Verrilbteuthis |\ i;i 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata :!_'_' 

 Vitrinaalaskana 322, 327, 3 



Voluta canalifera 159 



lativittata 159 



Vomer setapinnifi 3 mm. K)g 



\ ostox brunneipennie in."., l L2 



Xenichtbys xanti 

 Xenisma 



Btellifera 422, 



Xiphopborua helleri 

 Xya mixta 

 Xysticus brunneus 



crudelis 



di-i inctus 



feroculus 



formosua 



eulosus 



lentufi 



Limbatus 



luctans 



maculatus 



oervosue 



quadrilineal as 



Btomachosue 



tran8versua 



triguttatus 



111! 

 «!'_' 



138 



283 



79 



7: i 

 7!' 

 7'. i 

 7'.i 

 7't 

 7!» 

 7'. 

 79 

 7!l 

 7'' 

 79 

 79 

 7'» 

 7! ' 



Zygonectee 



brachyptcrue 

 Zelotes blanda 



rufula 

 Zonitoides arborea 



121, 122, 125 

 69 



lis 



1 






PRO< EEDINGS o| i in \, \in.\n <»| 





GENERAL INDEX 

 L916. 



Additions to the Museum, 630 



Alexander, < harles P. XYw or little- 

 known crane-flies from the United 

 Siat es and Can a <1 a : Tipulidse, 

 l't ychopt ( ■ r i < I :i- , Diptera. Pari 3 

 Plates XXV XXXI . 186, 609. 



Attac 



Banks, Nathan. Revision of Cayuga 

 Lake spiders (Plates X, XI . I, 68. 



Barber, Edwin A., announcement of 

 death of. 



Barringer, 1). M. A possible partial 

 explanation of the visibility and brill- 

 iancy of comets, with addendum by 

 Elihu Thomson, 172, 609. See Ma- 

 gie, W. P., 



Berry, S. Stillman. Cephalopoda of 

 the Kermadec Island- Plates V] , 

 VII. VIII. IX . 15. 



Biddle, Alexander W., Ml ).. announce- 

 ment of death of, 609. 



Biological and Microscopical Si 

 rt of, 625. 



Borden, Edward 1'.. announcement of 

 death of, 010. 



Botanical Section, report of, (326. 



Hover, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 ! I « ■.pn-al Section, 625 



Brown. Al< Lnnouncemenl of 



death of, 609. 



Caziot, E. Third synonymic study 

 of the mollusks of the Department 

 Upes-Maritimes mentioned by 

 Antoine Risso, with note- on their 

 classification. Translated l>\ Wil- 

 liam B. Dall, 610 



Chauncey, Charles, announcement of 

 death ol 



< !ockerelL T. D. A. Some be< 



alia, Tasmania, and New 

 Hebrides, 67. 



Colton, Harold S. On some varieties 

 of Thais lapillus in the Mount 

 '• gion. A -i udy of indi- 

 vidual ecology, 1 1". 609. 



Conklin, Edwin G. A trip to New 

 Zealand and Australia (no abstract I, 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 



613. 

 Council for 1917, 628. 

 Coxe, Eckley B., announcement of 



death Of, 609. 



Crawley, Howard. The sexual evolu- 

 tion of Sarcocystis tnuris (Platee 

 1. II. III. IV'. _'. The zoological 

 position of the Sarcosporidia, 379 

 609. 



Ores-cm. Ezra T.. Jr. Report of Ento- 

 mological Sect ion, 626. 



( lurators, report of, 018. 



Dall, William II. A new species of 

 Onchidiopsis from Bering Sea. <>7, 

 370. See < taziot . E. 



Daniels, L. E. See Henderson, Junius. 



Dixon, Samuel ( '•. Report of < lurators, 

 625. 



i >o ■•. qs, Norton, announoemenl of 



death of, 85. 



Dunn, E. M See Fowler, II. W. 

 Elections in 1916, 629. 

 Elliot, Daniel Oiraud, announcement 

 of death of. 1. 



Ely, Theodore X., announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Entomological Section, report of, 626. 



Fowler, Henry W. ('old-blooded ver- 

 tebrates from Costa Rica and the 

 Canal Zone, 389, 609. Notee on 

 fishes of the order Haplomi and 

 Microcyprini, 1 15, 609. 



Fowler, Henry W., and Emmett Reid 

 Dunn. X'ote< on salamanders, 610 



Guppy, R. •!. I... announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Heath. Harold. The nervous system 

 of ( Srepidula adunca and it- develop- 

 ment, »7'.i, 609. 



Hebard, Morgan. See Rehn, J. A. G. 



Henderson, Junius, and I.. I-:. I >ani< !-. 

 Hunting Molluscs in Utah and 

 Idaho (Plates X \ XVI, XVII, 

 XVIII), 11. 315. 



Hubbs, ( 'ail I.. The Bounders of the 

 genus Hippoglossoides, 609. 



Index to ( renera, etc., 639. 




L916.1 



NATURAL S< [ENt ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 





Merkel H. Temperature and 

 the activities <>f animals 



I .1 Rept i • of ( Curator of 

 William S illecl i<«n~. • 



Lauder-Brunton, Thomas, announce- 

 ■ l< 



614 . 

 Lymai Report of Min- 



,1 Section, 



P., and I ) 

 Barringei M 



1. 



ounce- 



tinikoff, Elias, announcement of 



* 



Kentucky 



Nolan I Reporl 



• Hi I : ■ 

 614 



iUors, and Finance 



tinnoun 



i the 



• doguc 



XIX, XX, \.\!. 



■ of 



61 1 



Plain r of the 



XII, XIII \l\ . 1 



I M ! 



Report of Curator of William S. Vaux 



Li cti( ins, 6£ 

 Report of Cur.-: 



Reporl of Entomological Sectioi 626 

 Reporl of Librarian, til 1. 

 Report of Mineralogical and < Seological 



Reporl of < hrnithologica] S 



retary , 61 1 



Rhoads, Joseph 1'.. announcemenl of 



:i of, 1 1 



»ns, reports >1 . 625 

 Shufeldt, l: \\ . Fossil birds' i _ 

 Skinner, Henry. A collecting tour in 



eastern < *ul>a ' no abstract . 610. 

 Smith, Benjamin II R< porl of 



3 

 Smith, Edgar A . announcement of 



death of, I 

 Sonneberg, Walter. Evident i 



.-.it ion point in evolution, ti7. 

 Standing Committees, 1917, 629 



Witmer. Western birds and 

 then: haunts no abstracl 1 1 Re- 

 Repoii of 

 it hological Section, 6 

 Tannreuther, George W. Tht 



layers of Bdellodrilu 

 Thomson, Elihu. See Barringer, D M. 

 Thomson, John, announcemenl of 



death of, 67 

 Thomson, Joseph < '. < Contributions to 

 inatomj of Python reticulatus 

 5 I 

 Tucker, Henry. Reporl <>i' Curators, 



Uhle, Alexander, Ml)., announcement 

 of death of, 6 



Henry I.. \<\\ 

 North American bees of the genus 

 Andrena from west of the lOOth 

 meridian contained in the collections 

 • Academy <>t' Natural Sciences 

 <>f Philadelphia 



Mew gt nera and 

 • <i >« ■< l.i from the Upper 

 ceouf PL tee Will XXl\ 



Willian - ( Collections, reporl on, 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191 



PLATE I. 











PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191'.. 



. E II. 



l/\VVL_li,I : OLAUnL 



.U 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191 



IE III. 



i 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19K 



PLATE IV 



JHAWLliY: UTIOh 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE V. 



72 



^ 



n 

 ok V 



74 



78 



79 





89 



90 



8'2 





86 





83 



1j 



88 



91 92 



84 



: ^V 







80 r 9 



93 



H.VULU 1 HJIN L;r 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE VI. 





ALOPODA OK i 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910 



* 



e 



> 



..•■ : 



:e vil. 



\ 







1 



BERRY: CEPHALOPODA OF 1 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. FHILA. 1916. 



PLATE IX. 





• 



• • ••• * * 



■•;■• • 



3|jr 



IRY: CliPHALO: 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



I E X. 



. 





ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA 



PLATE XI. 









PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XII. 





5 



G 





10 



V 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



plat: 



Hl£BAi 



I 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191' 



13 



". 



10 TS 



6 n 



20 



21 



c_k 



15 



I)- 



19 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 191- . 



PLATE XV. 



DERSON and DANIELS: MOLLUSCA OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XVI. 



HENDERSON and DAN!;.'. . MOLL CA OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. PLATE XVII. 



Hli".' .D DANIELS: MOLLUSCA AH AND IL 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XVIII. 



HIiNDliHSON and ! MOLLUSCA OF N IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1916. 



PLATE XIX. 



'ILSBRY 



OF OREOHLXI 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191- 



PLATEiXX. 



'ILSBRY- 



J : Ur UHliUHcLLI 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 



PLATE XXI. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE 



lEOHi 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXIII. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXIV. 



; 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191' . 



PLATE XXV. 



ALEXANDER: 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 19 1' 



PLATE XXVI. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191' 



PLATE XXVII. 



: 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE 





,).) 



EXANDE1 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 



PLATE 



LIES 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE XXX. 



•:ANDi£R: CHAT. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19K 



.ATE XXXI. 







PUBLICATIONS OF 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF PHILADELPHIA, 



Fifteen volume* of the New 8 1. have 



been, issued 1847 to 1913. Thepri > rts is $10, or S3 per p libera, 



and to others $12.50 per volui - -..alian 



i of Dakota and Nebraska, wil - malum Ren th America." 



Illustrated with thirty plates. By JOBKPH LEIDT, MIL, II. I) 



Volume X\ bean publishi in aommemoration ol the < >ntenary 



of the Academy, on specially prepared pap< r, 7 - <> ol which an colored. 



The I ik-i Series or the Journal, isir >, may be ol 



at $40 to membera, and to the publi 



The Foot 8eries or the Pboceeoj height 



volunies were cor: ruber 31. 1- t at $24 and to the 



public $311. 



: in. PaocxKonras, -■ Jaauao ' 



volumes were oompieted December 31, 187 uned at $1- to membera, or $3 per 



volume separately, and to tin- public $3.7"» per volume 



es or the Proceedings, illustrated comma 1. Is71 (of which 



■ ur volumes an- now completed . - publ par annum to i, payable in 



advance; single volumes, S6.25. 



As Imikx TO TH1 3 EEDiNOB of 



1*17 1010 14 



. 1865 7i Sevan vols., Bvo Containing 2500 pages. 

 UlustraU •! )■%■ 150 : 

 at $70. Pri - n IV to VI] 



h. 



roUowing ■ 



M \s W I bi o\. Ja , continued by 



- 

 Ampl Series II, Terrestrial M 'Husk,, 



edition, per part, $(. pei volume, Si-' Colon i edit 



- 



- 

 Debcuhtio- urn Ami hi. v. arith I - 



$1" 

 MONOOHAH! Or TH1 I i rm-iiiiil. MoLLPBCA O* rut 1 ..f all 



w v rn i \n u.\ ► Moi i 

 M 184 M I 



dittoo, dup 114; with 



with plain plates, $»>. 

 rarr or tbi u 



• 



i DOT Willi • 



Cloth) H . 



that I'aper- 

 $1 : 



I 

 $1 



: I 

 •I fine lithographs 



88 



ACAI.I VT 



•ell*ni at n 



■ : | 




CONTENTS. 



Paoi 

 ita, I'.. <: Praticolella 194 



Churchill, William. The earliest Samoan prints 199 



Fowler, Henri \\ . Notes on Nematognathus fishes 203 



Fowler, Henr* \Y. Cold-blooded vertebrates from Florida, the Wesl 



Indies, Costa Rica, and eastern Brazil 244 



Rehn, James A. <!. A further contribution t<> the knowledge of the 



thoptera of Argentina 270 



. James A. <'■.. and Morgan Hebard. The genus Gryllus (Orthop- 

 tera) as found in America 293 



v. Henry \. Molhisca of the Southwestern State-. \'I: The 

 Hacheta Grande, Florida, :m<l Peloncillo Mountains, New Mexico 

 Plate, V, VI, VII) 323 



Mr. nier, Stanislas. Theorie du gneiss el des terrains oristallophylliens 



en general 351 



Pilsb ■ V., and James II. Ferriss. Mollusca of the South- 

 we- - es. VII: rhe Dragoon, Mule. Santa Rita, Babo- 

 quivari, and Tucson Ranges, Arizona Plate- VIII, IX, N. XI, XII, 

 Nil I. XIV. N\ 



Harsiiberger, John W., Ph.D. The diversity <>t' ecologic conditions 



d its influence on the richness of floras 119 



Wherry, Edgar T., and Sam ce . G. Gordon. An arrangemenl of minerals 



ording to their occurrence . . 426 






1 



A2 



v.68 



biot - 



& Medical 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia 

 Proceedings 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 





